‘ownage

 
 

 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 10

Wet-winning

Stanford qualifies
for nationals

 

 

General
Notes

 

:

r

.

y

.

a

ir

 

*

Mandatory MDA

There will be a mandatory
meeting for all MDA Superdance
committee members at 7 p.m.
Tuesday in Conference Room B of
the Student Center. Next to the
dance itself, this is the most im-
portant meeting of the year.

Dutch treat

The Washington and Lee Con-
cert Guild opens its 1985-86 season
tonight at 8 in Lee Chapel with
Quink, a Dutch vocal ensemble.
The Guild’s second concert will
feature the Aspen Wind Quintet on
Tuesday, Dec. 3. All Concert Guild
concerts are open free to the W&L
community.

Popcorn, too!

The Student Activities Board
presents ‘‘Kentucky Fried
Movie,” with cameo appearances
by Donald Sutherland, Henry Gib-
son and Bill Bixby, this Thursday
and Friday at 8:30 p.m. in the
GHQ (free popcorn!) and Sunday
at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in Room 108 of
the Student Center. Admission is
$2.

Almost home

On Monday, Evans Dining Hall
will host a special Family Style
Thanksgiving feast featuring
roast whole tom turkey, baked
buffet ham, chestnut dressing,
giblet gravy, whipped potatoes,
buttered green peas, cranberry
relish, whole kernel corn, hot
rolls, pumpkin and mince meat
pies, milk and apple cider.
Students will be seated from 6 to
6:15 sharp and will be directed to
their seats by the staff of Evans
Dining Hall. When a table of 20 is

completely filled, the waiter will

bring out a whole turkey and all
the fixin’s. Come with you friends
as the larger your group the faster
your table will be filled, allowing
service to begin at that table.
Dorm counselors will be the of-
ficial turkey carvers. Nov. 18 pro-
mises to be a festive, fun-filled
evening for all.

Holiday hours

The University Library hours
during the Thanksgiving break

, will be: Friday, Nov. 22: Close at

5:30 p.m.; Saturday, Nov. 23:
Open 9 a.m. — 4 p.m.; Sunday,
Nov. 24: Closed; Monday, Nov. 25
through Wednesday, Nov. 27:
Open 8:30 a.m to 4:30 p.m.;
Thursday and Friday, Nov. 28 and
29: Closed; Saturday, Nov. 30:
Open 9 a.m. -4p.m.; Sunday, Dec.
1; Open at noon to resume 24-hour
schedule.

Charlie Chan Jr.

The Washington and Lee Film
Society and the East Asian
Studies Program will present the
delightful 1982 film ‘‘Chan is Mis-
sing” Friday and Saturday.

One of the most surprising suc-
cess stories in recent film history,
“Chan is Missing”’ is the tale of a
Chinese-American cab driver and
his nephew, who self-mockingly
imitate Charlie Chan and his No. 1
Son as they seek the thief who
stole $4,000 from them.

The showings will be 8 p.m. in
Classroom ‘‘A”’ of Lewis Hall. Ad-
mission is free and the public is in-
vited.

| Visit Chuck and Di

The Virginia chapter of the
English Speaking Union offers
scholarships to qualified juniors
who are Virginia residents for
study in England this summer.
One student may be nominated by

| W&L. Successful candidates may

study at the universities of Ox-
ford, London, or Birmingham (at
Stratford); the dates are roughly
early July to mid-August. Inter-
ested students should speak to
philosophy Professor Ramsey
Martin by Nov. 22. Interviews are
scheduled for Dec. 4.

It’s not pink?

The 1985-86 University Register
is now available in the Registrar’s
Office.

 
      

Page 7

  

TRS @dMeagr

NUV 15 1995

al PLA rere

WASHENCTON ® LMC AUER

 

 

Award-winning

 

x-secretary
Chappell quits

after meeting

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Carole Chappell, recruitment coor-
dinator and former University Cen-
ter secretary, resigned Friday
because of what she called ‘‘pro-
blems” with her supervisor, Assoc-
iate Dean of Students Michael A.
Cappeto.

“My relationship with Mike Cap-
peto had deteriorated to the point of
no return,” Chappell said this week.

“T don’t think that it’s appropriate
or legal to comment on personnel
matters,’’ Cappeto said yesterday.
“Carole resigned and I’m really go-
ing to miss her.”’

Chappell said she made the deci-
sion to resign last Wednesday after-
noon, after what she called a “‘stor-
my” staff meeting involving herself,
Cappeto, Placement Consultant Ste-
phen P. Bredin and Associate Dean
of Students Anne C.P. Schroer.

Describing the meeting as ‘‘de-
grading and humiliating,’ Chappell
said that ‘‘after the staff meeting on
Wednesday, I realized that I was not
getting the support in my job that I
needed.”’

Chappell said she was upset be-
cause work that was assigned to her
was not mentioned in her job descrip-
tion when she agreed to take the posi-
tion of recruitment coordinator.

She said her job as recruitment co-
ordinator was to welcome and help
the interviewers from the companies
who come to Washington and Lee to
search for future employees. She ad-
ded that when she took the job, she
agreed upon a minimum of typing
work. The remaindor of the typing
was to be done by Carol B. Calkins,
the new University Center secretary
and receptionist, according to Chap-
pell

These agreed-upon stipulations
were not met this year, Chappell
said, as she was given large amounts
of typing work from her three bosses
— Cappeto, Bredin and Schroer. She
said she was given over 100 letters to
type in one week.

When she asked why she had been
given so much typing work, Chappell

said, her superiors told her she was
the only one who knew how to operate
the memory typewriter used in that
work.

Schroer said that Chappell had
talked to her a couple of days before
her resignation about leaving her
job. “I think she had a hard decision
to make. I respect her decision,”
Schroer added.

“I obviously wish her the best,”

she added.
Chappell said that she will see

University President John D. Wilson
today “to go over my personal
record.” She said she wants W&L to
know that “I didn’t just walk out on
my job.”

Chappell said problems began be-
tween her and Cappeto last fall, when
he started to complain about the
number of students ‘‘hanging
around” her and Cappeto’s office. At
that time, Chappell was the Universi-
ty receptionist and had the office
near the glass front doors of the
University Center.

“Tt was no secret that I was having
problems with Cappeto,’’ Chappell
said.

Thefact that students were visiting
her in her office during working
hours” became a “really big issue’
with Cappeto.

In May of this year, Chappell said,
she was given the option of keeping
her old job or taking a a promotion by
taking the job of recruitment coor-
dinator. She said that she took the
promotion in hopes that the problems
Cappeto had with the students in her
office would be eliminated, and they
were.

Her problems started this year, she
said, when she was asked to do the
tasks that were not in the new job’s
description. Even so, she said, “I
really liked the job I was doing.”

When she complained during last
Wednesday’s staff meeting, Chappell
said, her grievances were not taken
as seriously as she intended. “I got
no support from Mike Cappeto,” she
said.

It was the next day, she said, that
she confronted Cappeto and announc-

(See Chappell, Page 5

‘Macready!’ to be at

University Theatre
Page 8

Che Ring-tumn Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

LIUPPOe, AmE pode

 

  

Your weekend weather

 

  
 

 

  

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

/ ~~ 4
By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Chris Spear (left) and Marty Chapman help flood victims

Waiting for the flood

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

 

Last Tuesday night junior Tom Knight and his five roommates were
throwing a flood party at their house next to the Maury river, while the
flood waters crept quickly toward them.

At midnight that night, a card game was in progress in the house,
and there was little flooding in the area.

At 2 a.m., the water from the river had come within 15 feet of the
house, and the party broke up, while Knight and some others stayed up
to watch the flood’s progress.

By 4a.m., the water had surrounded the building and was seeping
into it, at which time the residents abandoned the house. Knight said
that at the flood’s peak, there was about four feet of water in the first
floor.

Knight and his roommates were lucky in that they were just renting
the house and they lost only two sofas and a dresser.

‘We had enough time to clear out,’’ Knight said.

 

Cloudy and chance of

rain all weekend long

 

NOVEMBER 14, 1985

 

W&L gives
$5,000 for
flood relief

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

 

Washington and Lee’s help in
flood relief from last week’s
storms has ranged from ROTC
cadets cleaning up and preventing
looting to a $5,000 donation to flood
relief announced today.

Several fraternities, including
Chi Psi, Kappa Sigma, Phi Gam-
ma Delta and Sigma Nu, were out
in force in Buena Vista and other
hard-hit areas, cleaning homes,
businesses and industries.

The W&L News Office esti-
mated that over 1,000 man-hours
were donated by the W&L commu-
nity.

Jeffery Hanna of the Publica-
tions Office also announced today
that W&L will donate $5,000 to
help Southern Seminary Junior
College with its county-wide flood
relief program. Hanna said it was
the largest monetary donation
from W&L.

Other organizations are plan-
ning to donate money .

eThe freshman class is planning
a fast for flood charity Tuesday.
Patrons of Evans Dining Hall will
be asked in advance if they will
give up their dinner Tuesday as a
donation to flood relief.

Each student that agrees to
donate his dinner will be giving
$1.50

eW&L will donate the gate re-
ceipts from Saturday’s home foot-
ball game against Washington
University. “It could be a couple
of hundred dollars to a thousand
dollars,” according to Athletic Di-
rector William D. McHenry.

The Intervarsity Christian Fel-
lowship has placed coffee cans in
the University Library, the Co-op
and General Headquarters for
monetary donations to flood
relief.

Many of the ideas were Han-
na’s, who said there were many
organizations that wanted to help
in some way but didn’t know what
the best way would be.

Inside...

~ Floods hurt business, Page 5
Water service normal, Page 5

 

 

 

Single sanction questioned in wake of verdict

 

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

The possibility that the single-sanction Honor System is no
longer workable was raised by several members of the
Washington and Lee community after last week’s open honor
trial, in which a student convicted of petty larceny in a city court
was acquitted of an honor violation by a student jury

“Tf the students feel that punishment is too harsh for this kind
of an example,’’ said senior Scott Henderson, maybe there
needs to be a re-working of the Honor System.

Henderson echoed the thoughts of several students interview-
ed this week about Friday’s acquittal of a student on an honor
violation charge. The student was charged with stealing; he was
convicted of larceny Oct. 15 in Lexington General District Court.
Both charges stemmed from the incident last May, when the stu-
dent took a barrel of wine from Spanky’s restaurant.

Lee Hollis, a senior and a member of the student-alumni group
Kathekon, said the severity of the penalty for an honor convic-
tion, expulsion from the University, may have a bearing on the
decision of a student jury.

There are cases, Hollis said, in which students may feel that

Defendant not surprised by acquittal
by student jury in open honor hearing

 

although an act is dishonorable, it does not justify removing a
student from the University.

“The reaction of your average jury member,” Hollis said,
“especially on this one, which had a lot of freshmen, is ‘Who am
I to be kicking this person out of school?’ ”

“In the open trial, students are sometimes more sympathetic
to extenuating ciroumstances,”’ Hollis said. “I think the penalty
ro have something to do with it, the all-or-nothing of it,” he
said.

“The fact that he admitted to stealing was never under ques-
tion,” Hollis said. ‘It was not ‘whether he stole,’ but ‘was it an
honor offense?’ ”

Henderson said the personal identification of a student juror
can make a fellow student who is on trial might complicate the
hearing process.

“We all know what everyone goes through at W&L,”’ he said,
“and sentiments come into play far too much. A juror might
say, ‘Look at what we are taking away from him. Is what he did
sufficient reason to take away what he’s done here?’ It’s not a
question of cut-and-dried honor anymore.”’

Townes Pressler, chairman of the Student Control Committee,
which is responsible for student conduct violations, expressed
concern about the perception the student body has of the Honor
System lately.

 

DHE

“What bothers me about it is what student reaction is,”
Pressler said. ‘‘I think there is a disbelief that there is an Honor
System, and that it works,” he said.

Henderson also said he has concern about student perceptions
of honor offenses. ‘‘If you can get off on a case just because you
have the ‘honor’ to admit to it,”’ he said, ‘‘then what are the
criteria?”

‘Maybe the Honor System is too strict,’’ Henderson said, ad-
ding that if it is perceived that way it would be ‘‘unfortunate.’’

“The Honor System, as I have viewed it, is a very fragile
thing,” said Sidney M.B. Coulling, professor of English and a
W&L alumnus, ‘‘It depends on student support.’’

Henderson said he sees a trend away from this support in not
only honor trials, but in the criminal justice system as well.
‘The mentality of students and the nation as a whole is to look
for loopholes rather than to see justice done,’ Henderson said.

Pressler agreed with Henderson. ‘‘There is a real loophole
here,” he said. He added that respect for the Honor System is
strong within the EC, but not in the student body.

Hollis agreed. ‘It’s the EC’s job to inerpret the honor code ina
fairly strict manner,’ he said. ‘In the appeal to a closed hear-
ing, the student generation’s view comes out more.”

See Reaction, Page 5

EC retains faith in Honor System
despite reversal of closed conviction

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

 

 

¥

_

“T don’t see this as a landmark
case,” senior Bill Zola said of his
open honor hearing last Friday. “It’s
not like this is the first time this has
happened. It’s the first time I’ve ever
seen it go this far — to an open hear-
ing.”

Zola was acquitted by a student
jury after being convicted in a closed
hearing by the Executive Committee
on a charge of stealing a barrel of

wine from Spanky's restaurant last
May.

Zola said he has faith in the Honor
System, but has some disagreements
with the EC’s procedures.

“T think the Honor System worked
this time,’’ he said. ‘‘I don’t have any
gripe with the Honor System. The
thing that bugs me is that it took five
months.”

He characterized the time from the
incident in May until his acquittal
Friday as ‘‘five months of hell.”’

See Acquittal, Page 5

 

 

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

HONOR SYSTEM

 

In the wake of a student jury's re-
jection last week of an Executive
Committee honor conviction, several
EC members reaffirmed their faith
in the University’s Honor System

EC President John Lewis said that
despite the overturning of the verdict
reached in a closed hearing, he feels
no frustration, but added that others
on campus might

 

 

“The response I’ve gotten is that

this verdict wasn’t a true representa-
tion of the student generation,”’ he
said. ‘‘Many people are amazed at
the decision and felt that justice
wasn't done. A lot of people are
amazed.”’

Lewis was quick to note that the
Honor System does not work on the
basis of precedent Past decisions are
not the basis for decisions in future
cases — but second-year law repre-
sentative William Thompson said

See EC, Page 5

 

od
 

 

 

OPINION
| Betrayed

et

4
’

-

———

dled hapa ay yl ghasyarndity

ALMRAL EL OB BECECLEE 6

  

“sh oe ae
‘

“eM hg the tt

a

RR

z x

 

“If you do not believe in honorable conduct or are indifferent
on the point, Washington and Lee is not the proper school for
you.”

—The White Book

The language of the Honor System guidelines is as clear
and unambiguous as was the accused student’s petty larceny
conviction from Lexington General District Court.

“The system is in essence one of mutual trust — trust
among students, faculty, administrators, and townspeople
that persons attending Washington and Lee will not lie, cheat
or steal,” the White Book says.

‘‘No violation of this trust is too small to be ignored, for we
understand that honor is not measured by degree.”’

Either the student body jury Friday did not understand
that, or else it decided it knew better for Washington and Lee
than did Robert E. Lee, the Honor System’s founder.

In refusing to exercise the single sanction against a student
who sat in Lee Chapel and admitted that he stole, the jury did
more than taint the Washington and Lee community by
allowing a dishonorable student to remain within it:

It made it impossible for any student recruitment member
to look a prospective in the eye and in good faith say that we
have an Honor System that works.

It put the faculty and town on notice that Washington and
Lee students cannot be trusted under all circumstances.

And it made a mockery of the aspect of the Washington and
Lee experience that students and alumni point to with the
most pride.

The Honor System has never been codified — the dos and
don’ts are not spelled out, since a hallmark of the system is
the fact that all offenses are considered on a case-by-case
basis. The underlying principle has always been, though, that
lying, cheating and stealing are blatant examples of honor
violations, although the system was presumed to extend well
beyond those. This jury, though, decided that even one of
those most fundamental breaches of the system was insuffi-
cient to warrant removal from the Washington and Lee com-
munity.

The travesty raises a number of questions:

Under the philosophy that there are no degrees of honor,
how could the fact that someone was acting under the in-
fluence of alcohol possibly be a factor for a jury?

How could a jury ignore the fact that by his actions, this
student cast doubt in the minds of the community about the
integrity of all Washington and Lee students?

Why would a jury decide that the American criminal
justice standard is not tough enough — that what was good
enough for civil authorities, who have to operate under all
sorts of rules and procedures not necessary in an honor hear-
ing, was not adequate evidence that the student was guilty of
shoplifting?

On what basis could the jury have believed it appropriate
to consider factors relating to what the student did after the
offense, the reasons he committed the offense or his feelings
about the offense, when the only relevant question was
whether the act was in fact committed? And the student
admitted that.

Lee and the Honor System he left as his legacy had nothing
to say about intention or motivation or mitigating circum-
stances. Students who commit dishonorable actions will be
permanently dismissed from the University. Period. It does.
not matter if the student was intoxicated. It does not matter if
the student was under mental stress, which likely will be the
defense when the next cheating case comes up. It does not
matter if the student returned the purloined liters. And it
does not matter if the student is a nice guy.

If it’s impossible to convict students for even the most
egregious violations of the words and spirit of the system, we
wonder if the only reasons the system is retained are util-
itarian ones — because it’s convenient to be able to leave our
books lying around and because it’s handy to be able to
charge a Coke at the Co-op when we forget our checkbooks.
The Honor System becomes a method of getting out of town
by Tuesday of exam week, not something that guides actions,
builds character or shapes lives.

The decision Friday clearly reduces the aura and power of
the system. Who’s going to think twice about snagging a Bic
pen when someone who admits he stole more than a score of
bottles of wine still walks the Colonnade?

Besides being embarrassed by the decision, we are alarm-
ed — alarmed that that jury was not a fluke, did not make a
mistake and was not simply seduced by the consensus that
the student in question was “‘a great guy.’”’ We are alarmed
that those 12 people may have represented accurately the
views of this student generation.

If that is the case, the Honor System is a charade — a game
we play out of habit and convenience, a game we can stick
back on the shelf when we get bored or drunk.

That possibility leaves us with a host of haunting doubts:

Should we continue to delude ourselves about the system,
telling ourselves and others that it works, when we know in
our hearts that it does not?

Should the Executive Committee try to maintain the skele-
ton of the system in case some future student generation
might, by chance, want to live by it?

Or should we be truthful with ourselves and make the pain-
ful but intellectually honest decision to bury the system along
with its creator?

Realizing that you can’t give CPR to a corpse forever, we
know that eventually the system may have to be put out of its
misery.

For now, though, that extreme path can be rejected. We
believe a system that has survived 120 years and 30 student
generations can endure a body blow such as the one it suffer-
ed on Friday.

So it’s not time to shut off the life-support equipment.

Yet.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985

 

 

 

 

 

 

eluswe Traclition Agi

vr er

. peltevability HOU gull

oust em at any price.

Know
ch eo

nq Prodvece,
find mM No other

 

 

* This Gent's for youl"

 

 

Misinterpretation dishonors system

To the editors:

“Persons attending Washington
and Lee University must realize that
our commitment to the principle of
honor is firm. If you think that you
can join us in upholding this princi-
ple, we weloome you to become part
of our community. Membership in
our student body signifies commit-
ment to an honor system under which
ignorance is no excuse. If you do not
believe in honorable conduct, or are
indifferent on the point, Washington
and Lee is not the proper school for
you.” With these words, the White
Book begins.

As a prospective student, I was told
all about the “Honor System” that
“works.’’ The rhetoric was strong
and ‘consistent. The Honor System
was the main reason I chose to come
to Washington and Lee. I optimisti-
cally told my friends that I was going
to a school where the students
mutually pledged to each other that
they would not lie, cheat or steal.

Since I arrived, I have become con-

siderably less enamored, not with the
Honor System, but with the student
enforcement of the Honor System. I
heard Executive Committee mem-
bers who felt it unnecessary for them
to prosecute false identification and
stolen road sign cases. Some of them
recommended that these cases be
relegated to the Student Control
Committee. My friends, these are
serious honor violations.

The dictionary defines a lie as ‘“‘a
false statement or piece of informa-
tion deliberately presented as being
true.” The use of such an item con-
stitutes lying. Lying is an honor
violation. Therefore, the use of false
identification is an honor violation.

To steal is defined in the dictiopary
as “to take without right or permis-
sion.”’ What right does any student
have to take a road sign that is the
property of the Virginia Department
of Transportation? The student has
none. What permission does the stu-
dent have? Again, the student has
none. Therefore, the student has

Details do matter

To the editors:

I feel compelled to write this letter,
after having finished the Octoberfest
meal on Parents’ Weekend. I must
commend the Evans Dining Hall
staff for their efforts to keep eating
interesting. The Octoberfest was a
display of hard work, well performed
for the parents. But one point that
really hurt my national pride (and
my parents’ if they had decided to
come) is that the Dining Hall staff
served Gouda cheese with a little
German flag on top, indicating Ger-
man origins. But as any cheese lover,
and all Dutchmen, would know,
Gouda is a Dutch cheese, not Ger-
man; Octoberfest is a German festi-
val, not Dutch. It might seem like a
trivial point, but I have always felt
that if you do something, do it right
and completely in every aspect, or do
not doit at all.

I bring up this topic not as com-
mentary on the Evans Dining Hall,
but to draw an analogy to the Honor
System. Let the Honor system not be
ruined, as the meal was, by overlook-
ing minor details. Let the Honor
System be rightly and completely ap-
plied, or not at all.

I, like many, came to W&L partly
for its great (?) Honor System. It was
touted before I applied, when I got
accepted, and before I came to W&L,
but even more so during orientation.
Yet each issue of this paper has had
one or more editorials about the
Honor System and its terminal ill-
ness. But let me start by taking a look
at the word “honor.’’ One of the
definitions given by our faithful
friend Webster is ‘‘A code of princi-
pally male dignity, integrity, and
pride ... Personal integrity maintain-
ed without legal or other obligation.”
Obviously, (to me at least), honor is
not something we receive through
osmosis, nor through just attending
W&L. As Mr. Allen tells us, honor is
not just a “‘cool’’ thing to have, just a
fad to follow. It is more, much more.
Honor must be derived from a basic
trust, shown by one, and towards
others, which grows, and must be
nurtured through time. Specifically,
at W&L, this trust means that one

' will not lie, steal, or cheat.

But Dr. Nelson Patterson, in The
Ring-tum Phi of Oct. 24, gives the
prognosis that Lee’s concept of honor
is dying. My initial prognosis agrees
with him. Examine the evidence for

yourself — look at the definition:
“without legal obligation.” Yet we
have the watchful eye of the Student
Control Committee to guide us in our
lives. Examine the disappearances
in the freshman dorms (conveniently
blamed on nearby schools). Examine
library losses. WLUR thefts, and
stolen jewelry (read the Ring-tum
Phi). I still leave my door unlocked,
but I am beginning to wonder. I still
leave the lock off my bicycle, but now
lam tempted to use it.

If the Honor System has worked for
over 100 years, then why is it failing
now? It could be women (God for-
bid), but even I am not naive enough
to think so. Surely it is not student
apathy. Yes, it is student apathy, as
displayed at the honor forum, and a
recent quote I heard: “F**k the
honor code.” But there is more to it
than this.

It partially lies in our society and
our upbringing. Look at Nixon, the
PLO, Khadafy (however one chooses
to spell his name), and the list goes
on. They all set an example of lying,
cheating and stealing, which we see,
hear and read about daily. Yet if past
W&L generations have been able to
deal with this, then why can’t we?

I feel that the difference lies in our
lack of attention to detail. There does
seem to be willingness to revive the
Honor System. Look at the number of
people wanting an Executive Com-
mittee spot in the freshman class,
and look at the editorials in the
newspaper. However, it takes more
than the concerted effort of some to
uphold the Honor System; it takes
all. The Honor System should not be
upheld sometimes, but all the time.
Each offense should be viewed as
equally detrimental to the school,
and the system must be taken seri-
ously all the time or not at all.

Be able to step above “‘coolness,”’
above society’s norms, and above our
current actions. Better not only your-
self, but better the school by learning
honor, living honor and being honor.
Do so now, while you have the chance
and while there is still time. For
perhaps someday, one I will regret,
to maintain enrollment levels, stan-
dards, and the W&L greatness, the
tradition of the honor will have to go
the way of the all-male school.

Dirk van Assendelft
Class of 1989

stolen the road sign. Stealing is an
honor violation. Therefore, that stu-
dent has committed an honor viola-
tion.

As more weeks passed, I read
editorials commenting on the sad
state of student reaction to and en-
forcement of the Honor System. Now,
I have seen too much. I feel like the
proverbial old man who claims to
have lived too long.

I find it difficult to believe that
fellow Washington and Lee students
are willing to excuse blatant honor
violations on the basis of intoxica-
tion. One student claims that intox-
ication is like sleepwalking. The
“victim’’ does not know what he or
she is doing. There is a crucial
dichotomy to be made. While sleep-
walking is virtually uncontrollable,
intoxication is brought upon one’s
self through a deliberate action
— drinking too much alcohol. Intox-
ication is never forced on anyone.
The individual makes a decision to
become intoxicated either through
blatant choice or sheer irresponsibili-
ty. Also, those who have been intox-
icated know what they are likely to
do. Thus, every time one decides (ex-
plicitly or implicitly) to become in-
toxicated, one must accept the conse-
quences of actions done while intox-
icated. Are we to allow honor viola-
tions due to intoxication? I think not.
Why, then it becomes acceptable for
someone to steal your $500 stereo
system because that person is drunk.
I cannot believe that we as Washing-
ton and Lee students truly desire that
course of action, for then mutual
trust is necessarily breached when-
ever anyone becomes intoxicated.
Thus, intoxication becomes the ideal

excuse for any honor violation. That
cannot be if we are to keep the Honor
System alive and working.

I also find it hard to believe that we
as Washington and Lee students are
willing to excuse as “‘honorable”’ that
which all of society condemns as re-
prehensible. How can that which is
enforced as larceny by the police not
be condemned as stealing by the
W&L community? If a student steals
a roadsign, that student is guilty of
two crimes, larceny to the police and
stealing (honor violation) to the W&L
community. That student must be
prosecuted on two fronts, the legal
and the honorable.

As. students at Washington and

~ Lee, we have pledged to be honorable

and trustworthy. The White Book
defines honorable and trustworthy
conduct for Washington and Lee
students. Simply put, it is never
honorable or trustworthy for
Washington and Lee students to lie or
cheat or steal (notice the absence of
“when sober’). We have agreed to
that, so let’s live by it and enforce it.

My friends, the Honor System is
suffering from misinterpretation and
student apathy. All too few students
are deeply concerned about honor. If
things progress at this rate, honor-
able students may have to leave
Washington and Lee in order to find
an honorable atmosphere. Should it
not rather be the case that
dishonorable students and students
who are ‘“‘indifferent’ to honor
should leave Washington and Lee?
The White Book says so, and I believe
it.

James M. Sloat
Class of 1989

Honor by applause?

To the editors:

How should we measure honor at
W&L in the future?

Suggestion No. 1: The Honor
Breathalyzer: Anyone over the legal
limit for intoxication is exempt from
the honor code.

Suggestion No. 2: The Honor Code
Punch-Clock: Every student will be
issued a punch card so they can
punch in and out of the Honor System
any time they feel the need.

Suggestion No. 3: The Applause
Meter: The more popular a person is,
the less chance of an honor convic-
tion.

Suggestion No. 4: It All Depends on
the Situation.

Of course we are being sarcastic.
The University policy on alcohol
states: “‘Washington and Lee Univer-
sity students are responsible for their
actions. Under no circumstances will
a person’s behavior be excused, over-
looked, or minimized because of the
use of alcohol.’’ (Student Handbook,
p. 76) We, the undersigned, will
always believe in the Honor System
and abide by the University policy.
Most of all, we will always believe in
personal accountability.

John T. Wiltse, Class of 1987
Allan R. Dick, Class of 1987
Douglas E. Harvey, Class of 1987
Peter L. Boatner, Class of 1987

Student sickened by verdict

To the editors:

I am absolutely sickened by the
judgment reached at the recent open
“honor’’ trial — not because of its
personal implications (in fact I do not
even know the names of the defen-
dant or any jury members), but
because of its implications as to the
State of the “honor’’ system as a
whole.

On what now do we base this shell
of an “honor” system? This poor
thing has deteriorated beyond recog-
nition as having come from the ideals
of honor of Robert E. Lee. Any in-
sinuation that the “‘honor’’ system
here is based upon Lee’s lofty ,unwrit-
ten code is an insult to him. If any-
thing, today’s system is a gross over-
simplification of his ideals that re-

tains none of the spirit of honor he in-
tended.

Instead, the system has become a
trite set of rules and base ideas
(hardly ideals) designed to afford
daily conveniences. Is that honor?
My God, I hope any man can strive to
be better than a liar, a cheater or a
thief. Yet this “‘honor’’ system calls
us no higher.

Perhaps The Ring-tum Phi should
include an obituary seetion this
week. For while the W&L “tonor”
system lives on, Robert E. Lee’s
ideal of honor is dead, and our last
honor trial decision has nailed its cof-
fin shut.

John Riordan
Class of 1987
The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985, Page 3

 

Changed registration system complicates student’s life

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

Recently we all had to go through
that arcane process known as regis-
tration for classes. First came every
student’s sometimes agonizing strug-
gle over what classes to take. You
know how it goes: “Should I take this
class, which someone once told me
was easy, or that class, which is sup-
posed to be hard. Of course, this one
meets A-hour, and I don’t want that.
But if I take that one intead of this
one, I’ll have Professor X for the
other one, and it’s bye-bye Dean’s
list. On the other hand...” Sound
vaguely familiar to you? Of course,
this internal debate is followed by the
notorious “search for the adviser.”’ I

have never had any trouble in this
regard, but I have heard stories of
students camped for days outside a
professor’s office, sustained only by
the fear of late registration.

This term the registration ritual
was made even more hazardous to
mind and body by a new decree pro-
mulgated by recently arrived Uni-
versity Registrar D. Scott Dittman.
Before examining this new process,
let me quickly review the old method.

Traditionally, the catalog has con-
tained within each course listing a
note of all the prerequisites one must
have for that course, including
whether ‘‘permission of the instruc-
tor’ was required. This permission
was granted orally, and if one signed
up for a course requiring permission,
it was assumed by one’s adviser and
by the Registrar’s Office that it had

Student calls aid in

To the editors:

It is an often forgotten fact that
Robert E. Lee was buried in a coffin
that was too short following another
flood on the Maury. After this week, I
am sure that he turned over in that
coffin as he observed the callous and
uncaring attitude exhibited by the
majority of the W&L community. No-
where did that callousness stand out
more prominently than in The Ring-
tum Phi. Statements such as Bill
Hanna’s “...it [the flood or the water
shortage caused by the flood?] was
fun with people getting some excite-
ment or having some great stories to
call home about,”’ or Charles Gay’s

“Dirty people cannot study proper-
ly,” typify the attitude that I have
observed this week. W&L was fortu-
nate to have been spared the devasta-
tion that reeked havoc in hundreds of
lives in the Lexington-Buena Vista
area. However, with business as
usual for both the Law School and the
undergraduate campus, our fortune
has spawned in many an I-was-not-
affected-why-should-I-care attitude,
which is both contemptible and
pitiable.

When I came to Washington and
Lee, I was led to believe it was uni-
que: that the University was founded
on the noble ideals of George Wash-

been received. This system, I had
always thought, worked pretty well.
Apparently, however, it didn’t work
well enough. As mentioned above, a
new procedure was tried this term.
Each student had to obtain a booklet
that listed all the courses offered in
the winter term. Beside many of
these listings was an asterisk in-
dicating that permission of the in-
structor was required. Furthermore,
this permission was to take the form
of the professor’s initials on the
registration card.

It turned out that many of the
courses marked by the asterisk did
not, in fact, require prior permission.

Reaction from the instructors in-
volved was immediate. The history
department, evidently as much sur-
prised by the new procedure as the
students, posted a memorandum

removing all but one of the 300-level
history courses from the list of
classes requiring permission.

One music professor was amazed
to discover that one of his courses
“required” permission, and that as a
result he was going to have to initial a
bunch of registration cards.

The German department went so
far as to circulate a memo to all ad-
visers informing them that several
German courses were incorrectly
listed as requiring permission.

One professor I know suggested
that, to avoid hassles at the Regi-
strar’s Office, students sign his in-
itials themselves.

Clearly, then, this new registration
system failed. Students disliked it
because it forced them to run around
trying to get permission for courses
that didn’t require it.

emergency lacking

ington and Robert E. Lee. One ideal
Uhey poth shared was humanity to
one’s fellow man — call it the Chris-
tian ideal, if you will — and I was pro-
ud to be part of a university that
struggled valiantly, so.I thought, to
keep that ideal alive. Also I felt that a
liberal arts institution existed in
large part to serve and enrich the
surrounding community, and once
again I was proud to be a part of a
university that I felt embodied such
an ideal. Later, as I became part of
the W&L community, I grew to ap-
preciate and understand those ideals.
Now, however, in the wake of W&L’s
response, or more accurately lack of

Reader laments sports apathy

To the editors:

After reading Mr. Feyrer’s column
Oct. 31, I’m really not sure what
point he was trying to make. Ms.
Kothman did make a good point
about the “Great Halftime Depar-
ture’’ in her letter the week before.
Mr. Feyrer assures Ms. Kothman
that “‘tradition has nothing to do with
students leaving the game at half-
time; that’s a matter of choice.” I
strongly disagree with Mr. Feyrer’s
statement. As soon as the Homecom-
ing festivities with Shillington & Co.
are over, the mass exodus begins. In
fact, I overheard one guy say to a
group, ‘‘Hey, it’s halftime. Time to
start partying again!”

Whether Mr. Feyrer wants to call
this a tradition or not is of little im-
portance. I wonder how many stu-
dents here have ever watched an en-
tire football game. The mass exodus
just becomes that much more appar-
ent because Homecoming is the only
game that most students choose to at-
tend. What does become important is
the overall attitude of the student
body toward athletics. Maybe tradi-

   
   

Lexington Shoe |

  

We have a complete

stock of Vibram Sole Sets— |
for hiking

and foul weather

         
  

   

3 West St.

ecceecereereeseseceoseee

tion is too strong a word for this
phenomenon, but student apathy to-
ward sports at W&L has become
somewhat of a fact of life.

Even though W&L is a small
school, most of us probably came
from schools that were even smaller.
I don’t know about the rest of you, but
at my school, athletes enjoyed decent
crowds and recognition for the most
part. This certainly isn’t the norm at
W&L. As a member of the aquatics
program, I’ve grown accustomed to
polo matches and swimming meets
with about as many spectators as
there are days in the week. Although
this weekend the polo team did enjoy
large crowds, which were greatly ap-
preciated. But again I have to won-
der if this was the result of genuine
water polo interest or the fact that
the students were running out of in-
teresting activities for their parents
in conjunction with the wonderful Ad-
dams Family weather we were then
enjoying.

The more I’ve talked with those
students who aren’t in the library,
watching TV or sleeping between the
hours of 3:30 and 6, the more I’ve

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Safeway

We have all your
party needs

Fresh Made Deli Pizzas

see eeeereeereseeeseees

found their reasons for participating
in a sport go well beyond any mini-
mal amount of recognition they
might receive. The real factor be-
comes a personal satisfaction and
love of the sport itself. Most athletes
have accepted the fact that outside of
their teammates, other athletes, and
a close circle of friends, no one really
cares. If other students were aware
of the sacrifices athletes must make
on a daily, weekend and vacation
basis, I’m certain they’d have a lot
more respect for these students.

The point I’m hoping to make is
that apathy towards athletics has
become somewhat of a tradition that
needs to discontinue. I wonder how

“Smany students know where Smith
‘Field is or what team plays there. Or ~

better yet, how many students have
been back to Cy Twombly since their
freshman swim test? Maybe this will
be another problem that coeducation
will help solve. So come on. Even if
you no longer wear one, at least be
one — an athletic supporter.

Chris Hope
Class of 1986

 

 

 

 

Football Team
Saturday

Support the W&L

    
   

  
    
   
  

response, to the flood I wonder if
perhaps I was wrong about this insti-
tution. Can it be that the professed
“‘reverence”’ forthe high standards
espoused by the University’s name-
sakes is so much talk? In light of the
inaction at W&L, I am forced to con-
cede that it is a likely possibility.

I also find it ironic that the VMI
cadets, the brunt of many W&L
jokes, are the only ones doing some-
thing constructive to clean up after
this disaster. The cadets have pitch-
ed in and gotten muddy to help Buena
Vista. What have we done? NOTH-
ING. VMI is actively conserving
water. What have we done? Moan
and cry about how inconvenienced
we are. The cadets certainly have a
sense of duty to the community; what
is wrong with us? Are we going to
act, in the true spirit of Generals
Washington and Lee, when the com-
munity truly needs us, or are we go-
ing to continue to pay lip service to
their ideals?

Seth B. Whitelaw
Law Class of 1988

~ ay ee

 

22 W. Nelson St.,

Many faculty members didn’t like
the system because it was instituted
without their knowledge. I’m sure
many professors were surprised to
learn (from a student, usually) that
one of their courses suddenly re-
quired permission.

Mr. Dittman will probably turn out
to be a wonderful registrar. By all ac-
counts I have heard, although I have
not met him personally, he is an af-
fable, intelligent man. However, I
can’t imagine why he decided to
change an apparently smooth pro-
cedure during his first term on the
job. Wouldn’t it have made more
sense to observe the system for a
year to see how things worked before
trying something new?

As I see it (and I may be viewing
things somewhat myopically),
several mistakes were made.

is otherwise independent.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

We ee Mike Allen
MG aon baht acca eieet eset cesses ieasscass Paul Foutch
cE esp edocs ei devocses Reade Williams
pethidescidisesieicstecel Mike Stachura
Beaks Tide veteeeeeeds Nelson Patterson
roo ee Jim Strader

Business Manager ...........--.eseee00 0
Advertising Manager .............6.000055

Advertising Salesmen .............5..0.0005

$i APe tsi ise sivicoic, Jeff Kimbell
0686655 55008000003. 4055 Hank Greenberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

The Registrar’s Office should not
have labeled courses ‘‘Permission
required” without consulting the pro-
fessors in question.

All course information should have
been included in the catalog, where it
could have been seen by all students
while they were planning their
Winter Term schedules. Vital infor-
mation should not have been given to
students within a day or two of the
registration day.

Finally, in those courses where
permission really was required, that
permission should be granted orally.

Until such time as any new regis-
tration system can be clearly ex-
plained to all students and faculty,
the old system of registration should
be maintained.

The system used the other week
should be scrapped.

Cotton Puryear

John Feyrer
Jay Reville

 

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

  
  
  
  

Clothiers for Men and Ladies
20% off Entire Stock

Friday and Saturday
November 15th and 16th

   

 

463-9340

 

 

 

 

Commons.

sentatives to help you.

 

Dick Emrey (703) 463-4362 (evenings)

 

 

BORDEN

 

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successful welcome from the community and quickly sold
out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts, we are introducing Phase II of Borden

Baker Real Estate
Post Office Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Oftice (703) 463-7319

= —

COMMONS BP

-Lexington's First Condominium Ce

  

 

These new and beautiful condominiums are designed to fulfill your every need, and they're located
just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.I. and the historic Lexington community.

Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condominium living?

If you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre-

Tom Baker (703) 463-2510 (evenings)

| pe aegis eA AR Ses TEE SO aI OR
 

 

 

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985

 

Lewis tells faculty of complaints about rules

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

following topics:

 

Executive Committee President John
Lewis presented a list of complaints about
some of the rules that resulted from last
year’s Drug Policy Review Committee to the
faculty at its monthly meeting Monday after-

noon.

These complaints came from members of
the student body, faculty, the Board of
Trustees, and last year’s and this year’s EC,
Lewis said in Monday evening’s EC meeting.

sophomore
guilty on
gun charge

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

 

Sophomore Drake Fason of Austin,
Texas, was found guilty of reckless
handling of a firearm Tuesday in
Lexington District Court.

The charge stemmed from a shoot-
ing incident at the Kappa Sigma
house in September. Fase vas fined
$200 and was given a five-day sus-
pended sentence.

According to Judge Joseph E.
Hess, Fason endangered himself
when he fired the rifle from the third
floor window of the fraternity house.
The .50-caliber rifle that Fason fired
was loaded only with gun powder.

The incident occurred Sunday,
Sept. 22 at the Kappa Sigma house at
201 E. Washington St.

According to a report from Officer
G.P. Joines, a ‘“‘popping” sound
issued from the house around 12:15
a.m. that evening and Joines went to
investigate. A group of fraternity
members had “raided’’ the house
and were setting off fireworks up-
stairs and in the back yard, accord-
ing to testimony in court Tuesday.
Amidst the confusion, Fason loaded
the musket with gun powder — but no
projectile — and climbed on the roof.

He fired once on the roof, climbed
back in his roomloaded the rifle once
more and fired it again out the win-
dow, according to witnesses.

In other court action, junior
Timothy Walker was found guilty
Tuesday of disturbing the peace in an
incident that occurred outside the Chi
Psi house last March.

He was sentenced to 40 hours of
community service to be completed
within a 90-day period.

grounds for expulsion.

dorms.

The fact that the chairman of the SCC is
not governed by any ‘‘procedural or eviden-

tiary” regulations.
tee itself.

Lewis’ report included statements of the
eThe clause in the Student Control Com-
mittee’s disciplinary policy that makes
racial, sexual and ethnic slurs possible

The rule that dormitory counselors are re-
quired to turn in underage drinkers in the

eThe name of the Student Control Commit-

Lewis G. John.

At the FC meeting two weeks ago, Lewis

Lewis said that some of these points were
better explained by members of the faculty
who framed the original drug policy, which
was formulated by the drug committee last
year and passed by the faculty.

Lewis declined to state his opinion on the
subject of the report, saying he was only re-
lating student opinion in his report.

Lewis also said that he was asked to file the
report to the faculty by University President
John D. Wilson through Dean of Students

 

=

9

> .
as
- .£

Cornered

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

The street sign at Lee Avenue and Washington Street is damaged after
part of it was removed Saturday night. Sophomore Steven J. Head of Moun-
tain Lakes, N.J., was arrested and charged with petty larceny and destruc-
tion of property with regard to sign. Lexington police received an
anonymous tip on the crime at 1 a.m. Saturday night. They estimate damage

at $50.

Low test scores are not the kiss of death

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

When graduate school aptitude test
results were returned recently, some
students realized that they may have
to make new career plans. But poor
test scores are not the end of the
world, according to Washington and
Lee career counselors.

“Don’t let your Law School Ap-
titude Test scores discourage you,”
said Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto, W&L’s main
career counselor. ‘‘There are so
many good law schools in the country

 

that you are bound to find one that
suits you.”

Chemistry Professor William J.
Watt, who advises students who are
trying to get into medical school,
says most pre-med students don’t
major in chemistry and so they have
another subject to fall back on.

“That’s good,”’ Watt said. ‘‘In case
they do poorly on the Medical! College
Aptitude Test they have another
career to pursue.”’

“Some students just don’t do well
on multiple choice tests, but still go
on to graduate school while others try
something else in a science-related
field,”’ Watt said.

Cappeto agreed about the fact that
tests don’t necessarily reflect ability.

“So many factors are involved in
taking the test,’’ Cappeto said. “For
instance, if your scores are not com-
parable with your high school SAT
scores or not comparable to your
grade point average, you probably
have a problem with your test-taking
skills.”

Cappeto said that each year about
six seniors go on to W&L’s Law
School. :

“We neither discourage nor en-
courage this, but we do want students
to go where they can gain the most,”’
he said.

John said

said the Board of Trustees at its fall meeting
asked Wilson to review the SCC disciplinary
policy and the rules for the use of the student
activities pavilion.

would review specific aspects” of the rules.

He added that some people have expressed
concern about the SCC’s policy, and that one
of Wilson’s future actions could be to ask that
the drug committee reconvene.

“There is going to be some review,”’ John
said. ‘‘A lot of it is going to be clarification.”
In other EC action. Vice President Andrew

the trustees ‘hoped faculty

Harried?

Dean gives students tips on how

Caruthers reported that the 1984-85 Caylx has
18 pages still unfinished, down from the 27
reported last week.

Yearbook editor David Sprunt was asked
to appear in front of the committee Monday,
when he expects to have the yearbook com-
pleted, Caruthers said.

“He is under the impression that he’s going
to be coming here next Monday and tell us
it’s complete,” Caruthers added.

Also, the EC froze the Fencing Team’s
operating funds after the team failed for two
weeks to appear for its budget hearing.

to improve time management

 

By BILL BLOOM

| Staff Reporter

 

Time management is probably
familiar to all of us, but accomplish-
ed by few. A familiar situation may
be, “I understand how to do my work,
it’s just that there is so darn much of
it,”

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappetto says that ‘‘stu-
dents who say they don’t have enough
time to do their work are not manag-
ing their time properly.’’ In an effort
to help student leaders with their
time crunches, Cappetto recently

- distributed some written guidelines

for time management.

Cappeto suggested in an interview
that you “‘schedule your time on a
chart.”” A semester plan of what
things you must achieve is recom-
mended. ‘‘List the things you have to
do for the day, the week, and then the
term,” Cappeto said. A school-term
date book, a monthly desk calendar,
or even a single sheet of paper canal
be helpful. Cappeto recommends you
“do your calendar in pencil.”

With this type of plan, you can
budget your time, by days, hours,
weeks or whatever it takes, Cappeto
said.

“Budget is the key word in this
whole time management deal.

A balanced budget is also impor-
tant — just ask your congressman.
Cappeto said a student needs to
budget, or plan for ‘‘when you're in
class, when you're going to study,
and when you’re going to play.’’ It is
important that you balance in this
manner, for the simple reason that
you won’t become an intellectual
vegetable.

Though Cappeto highly recom-
mends the planning of time (and the
adherence to those plans) for stu-
dents having academic difficulty,
time management can benefit even
the best students. However, we all
know that some people barely study
and do well, while others Well, see
you in the library.

One final helpful hint from Cappeto
is not to let ‘distractors”’ get in your
way — movies, phone calls and
friends, being examples.

 

INEWS BRIEFS

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto recently
distributed the following time
management tips for student
leaders:

Starting a Project:

Prior to starting any project,
ask yourself the following three
questions:

1. What would happen if this
were not done? If the consequence
of not doing the project is accep-
table, you should consider not
starting.

2. What would happen if this
were left until later? An accep-
table consequence for postponing
the start of a project will permit
the undertaking of more timely
projects (i.e.,studying). _

3. Could this be done by some-
one else just as well or better? If
yes, delegate the job to those in-
dividuals.

Using Your Time:

When undertaking a project,
pay careful attention to how you
use your time. There are, for any
project, three categories of time:
Creative, Preparatory and Pro-
ductive.

1. Creative time is thinking
time. It covers anything dealing
with planning, organizaing, and
evaluating.

2. Preparatory time is the ‘‘set-
up” phase. It includes arranging
your schedule, gathering all
materials and/or facts, arranging
for help, and so forth.

3. Productive time is the actual
work time. Creative and Prepara-
tory time make productive time
work easier and quicker to com-
plete. Too many students begin
projects by starting with Produc-

 

a
Cappeto’s tips on time

tive time. Effective time
managers consciously use all
three categories of time.

Tips for Time Management:

1. The telephone: Don’t get one!
If you do, don’t study in your
room. Hold and bunch return
calls.

2. Meetings: Learn to be goal-
oriented and direct your meetings
toward specific results. Have and
follow an agenda. Don’t let a
meeting run beyond 60 minutes.

3. Office: Plan to get away from
the office so you can do non-office
matters such as studying, writing
home, relaxing, etc.

4. Remembering: Develop your
ability to remember. Use associa-
tion techniques.

5. Playing the role: Don’t play
office. Don’t play executive. Don’t
write letters if you can say it by
phone or in person. Don’t ask for
written answers unless you must
have a written record. Don’t
develop elaborate files, record
keeping or paper work.

Working with Mr. Parkinson:

Parkinson’s Law, a _ widely
known discourse on administra-
tive behavior, contains several
principles which may be of in-
terest to student leaders.

Principle 1: Work expands to fill
the time available for its comple-
tion.

Principle of Triviality: In
meetings, the time spent on any
item will vary in an inverse pro-
portion to the amount of money in-
volved. Discussion of a new stu-
dent center will take 15 minutes.
Discussion of the furniture for the
TV lounge will take several hours.

Administrators create work for
one another.

 

 

“*You have to learn how to say ‘No’
to yourself, as well as your friends,”
he said. ‘‘It’s obviously harder to say
‘No’ to your friends.”’

If interest is great enough Cappeto
will organize a workshop for students

interested in getting more out of their
time.

He said group presentations to
halls, fraternities or pledge classes
also might be able to be arranged.

27 seniors, 7 law students chosen for 1986 ‘“Who’s Who’

Staff Reports

 

‘Who's Who Among Students in American Universi-
ties and Colleges’’ this week announced the names of 34
Washington and Lee students to be included in the 1986
edition.

The students have been selected as outstanding cam-
pus leaders. Campus nominating committees and edi-
tors of the annual directory have included the names of
these students based on their academic achievement,
service to the community, leadership in extracurricu-
lar activities and potential for continued success.

The 27 seniors and seven third-year law students join
an elite group of students selected from more than 1,500
institutions of higher learning in all 50 states, the Dis-
trict of Columbia and several foreign nations.

The undergraduate selection committee was compos-
ed of Dean of Students Lewis G. John, Associate Dean of
the College Pamela H. Simpson, and juniors Andrew
Caruthers, John Hudson, John Pensec and Pat
Schaefer.

Those selected to Who’s Who are:

Seniors: Michael P. Allen of Rossmoor, Calif.;
Lawrence S. Anker of East Windsor, N.J.; Michael J.
Black of Shreveport, La.; Christopher A. Bleggi of
Weedville, Pa.; John-Paul Bouffard of Berkeley
Heights, N.J.; Alexander F. Castelli of Potomac, Md.

Michael F. Guerriero of Houston; Patrick L. Hayden
of Rochester, N.Y.; James L. Hayne Jr. of San Antonio,
Texas; John W. Haywood of Hilton Head Island, S.C.;
John F. Henschel of Potomac, Md.; Lee M. Hollis of

 

Memphis, Tenn.; William T. Holmes II of Gladwine,
Pa.; Peter J. lerardi Jr. of Philadelphia; Christopher
D. John of Lexington; James Y. Kerr II of Goldsboro,
N.C,; John B. Lewis of Greenville.

David D. Lewis of Richmond; Kenneth L. Lindeman
of Atlanta; Thomas R. Mack of Camp Hill, Pa.; Brian
J. Oliger of Rocky River, Ohio; Nelson R. Patterson of
Mohnton, Pa.; Townes G. Pressler of Houston; Alfred
A. Puryear of Madison; Bruin S. Richardson of Port
Huron, Mich.; Robert J. Whann IV of New Orleans; and
John M. Wheeler of Anniston, Ala.

Third-year law students: Paul G. Beers of New York Ci-
ty; Stokely G. Caldwell Jr. of Lexington; M. Lee Doane
of Lexington; Julie L. Gregory of Gainesville, Fla.;
Walter W. Rayner of Greenville, Miss., Daniel P.
Shaver of Manassas; and Donald E. Williams, Jr. of
Thompson, Conn.

Car damaged in hit-and-run

A hit-and-run driver caused $150 in damage to the car
of a first-year law student who had parked in the Law
School’s lot last Monday.

Laura Mayes Hicks told police that she parked her
car about 8 a.m. last Monday and went back to the car
about 4 p.m. and found the right front and right back
door of her 1980 Oldsmobile Omega dented.

Lexington Police Officer Richard H. Sutton reported
that Hicks would prosecute. No suspect has been found.

In other police action:

eTwo unidentified men shouted obscenities at a third-

year law student Friday night and then told the student
they had a gun and would kill him if he got any closer to
their car, according to a complaint filed with Lexington
police.

Joel B. Johnston was leaving a party with some
friends at 133 Houston St. about 11:45 p.m. when two
men in a small light-colored 1981 Chevrolet with Virgin-
ia tags drove by and began shouting obscenities, ac-
cording to the complaint.

Johnston said he approached the vehicle, and the two
men threatened him. Johnston said he did not see a
weapon.

—Christopher Deighan

Former student indicted

A former Washington and Lee student was charged
last week with breaking and entering and grand larceny
in connection with a June 11 incident at the Phi Kappa
Sigma fraternity house.

Alexander M. Benedetto, a member of the class of
1987 until last December, was indicted by a Rockbridge
County grand jury in connection with the theft from
sophomore Chris Wiman this summer of sweaters
valued at $348.

IFC gives $8,500 to Contact

An $8,500 contribution to Contact was approved at
Tuesday night’s Interfraternity Council meeting.
IFC Treasurer Mac McGrew announced that an $8 to

$9 assessment for each fraternity member would be
necessary to cover the cost of the contribution. The
IFC s funding matches a similar donation by the Ex-
ecutive Committee to the speaker’s forum.

Also, all fraternities were encouraged to attend Sat-
urday’s pre-football party in the student activities pavi-
lion featuring ‘‘Charisma.” Beer and food will be pro-
vided. The party begins promptly at 11:30a.m.

—John Kalitka

Student wins frat scholarship

Senior P.J. lerardi Jr. of
Philadelphia has been
selected the Solon E. Sum-
merfield Scholar of the
year by the Washington
and Lee chapter of Phi
Kappa Psi fraternity.

Ierardi received a cash
award of $100 for the
scholarship. He will com-
pete with scholars from the
90 other Phi Psi chapters
for the Outstanding Na-
tional Scholar of the Year,
which is accompanied by a
check for $3,000. There are
also first and second
runner-up awards for
$1,500 and $500.

P.J. IERARDI

ei Ree cee a ee tee wos

 

 

 

a

ey! a le RR

ee

hl,

ee oS

ane
 

Acquittal

,) Continued from Page 1

The EC charge of stealing was not
‘contested by Zola. ‘It was not a ques-
éion of the facts,” he said. “We were
trying to get away from the black and
white of it. We said the whole time,
#We'’ve got to look at the whole pic-
jure.’ ”

“Being drunk was not my de-
fense,” Zola continued. “Being drunk
énitiated my actions, but my actions
were not an honor violation.”’

The difference between his position

d the EC’s view, Zola Said, had to

o with intent and premeditation. He
§aid that if he had premeditated the
theft of the wine at Spanky’s, that
Would have been clearly an example
ef a violation of the Honor System.

Zola said that if he had been to the
Festaurant earlier on the day of his
ye, and thought “I want that

 

ine,” then the element of intent
ould have been introduced in the
tase. Zola instead maintained that
kis action was a “stupid, drunken
rank.’”’

The jurisdiction of the Honor
System is something Zola said he is
concerned about. ‘‘I think the Honor

ystem works within the confines of
the University,” he said, citing the
ability of students to leave materials
in the library and to take unproctored
@xaminations.
|, Areas outside of W&L are ambigu-
| ous, Zola said. He said for instance,
Someone who steals in Rockbridge
| Gounty is no different from someone
who steals in Roanoke County. In the
first case, a student is supposedly
ander the Honor System’s jurisdic-
tion, but in the second, he is not.

“If you’re going to do that,’’ Zola

asked, ‘why not make it the whole

Flooding
closes some
businesses

iy
Sy HOLLY WILLIAMS

—

Staff Reporter

 

 

Many area businesses were
adversely affected by last week’s
flooding, including some that rely on
water for their business and others
that had property damaged by the
floods.

” Buena Vista Mayor Harold Kidd,
whose city was ravaged by floods,
said that despite heavy damage to
factories in the area, “Every in-
dustry is in the process of reopen-
ing.”

*A representative of Mead Assoc-
iates, the real estate firm that man-
ages many of the rental homes in the
Bean’s Bottom area, refused to esti-
mate property damages, but explain-
éd that leases are terminated if pro-
perty becomes uninhabitable.

Laundries, beauty shops and other
businesses that rely on water were
closed because of the water shortage.

The University Cleaners in Lexing-
ton refused to comment, but George
Beam, the owner of White Way Laun-
dry and Cleaners, said his business
was forbidden to use water.

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

‘

y The Lexington water plant became
fully operational again Monday after
‘a week of emergency rationing in the
aftermath of the flood of 1985.

, According te Lexington’s Water
Services Director Karen Roundy,
““We never got close to ‘turning off
the tap.’ ” The city still had one or
two days’ water left before the plant
‘resumed service, she added.

+ All operations at the plant stopped

 

*

 

(703) 463-7440

world?”

Zola said the EC “‘took everything
to its extreme”’ in his case. He said he
knows of instances in which students
have been convicted of larceny but
not brought before the EC. Those
cases involved the stealing of high-
way signs, Zola said, and were tried
by the Student Control Committee.
The channels used for his case should
have been the same, he said.

“It should have been Student Con-
trol to begin with,” he said. ‘“‘The EC
shouldn’t have been involved.” He
added that if he’d been tried before
the SCC, he would not have been sur-
prised had he been suspended for his
actions.

His argument against the EC’s
handling of the case stems from his
disagreement with the single sanc-
tion of the Honor System. ‘‘That’s
where the problem comes,” he said.
“The single sanction is a contradic-
tion of human nature.”

He was not surprised by the verdict
when it was announced, he said. ‘I
would have been more surprised had
I been convicted,” he said, adding
that he felt the process of the in-
vestigation, the closed hearing and
the open hearing was “more incredi-
ble’’ as it went on.

“‘T didn’t know what to expect,”’ he
said. “I was confident in my fellow
students.”’

Zola said he holds no animosity
toward the EC. ‘I have no personal
feelings against the EC,” he said,
“They're doing their jobs.”

He said he doesn’t think there is a
reason for animosity toward him
either. “I don’t think I violated
anyone’s honor,”’ he said. “‘I didn’t
breach their trust.

“I know in my heart that I’m not a
dishonorable person,” he concluded.
“T know that what I did was not dis-
honorable. I have to be content with
that, and lam.”

 

Reaction

Continued from Page 1

 

“They are doing the same thing in
two different ways,” Hollis said. The
EC interprets the Honor System in a
historical way, and the student jury
reflects the view of the student gener-
ation, he continued.

Hollis said although this is ‘‘not
really” a good way to handle it,
“that’s how it's evolved.”

Henderson added that the EC and
the student body seem to be drifting
away from an iron-clad definition of
the Honor System, and that might
make future convictions difficult to
uphold.

“You can’t acquit a guy in this
situation and have an Honor System
that means anything. How can we
justify to the next guy convicted that
his case is different?”

“Honor cannot be mediated by
drunkenness,’’ Henderson said.
“There must have been some cir-
cumstances, because I don’t see how
they can justify acquitting him. It
was a case of stealing.”’

Hollis noted that he is still an ad-
vocate of the single sanction of the
Honor System. ‘‘You’re either honor-
able or you're dishonorable,” he
said. “If you make exceptions then
you’re cutting down the Honor
System.”

Coulling expressed his support of
the strictness of the Honor System.
“T have always preferred, serious
though it is, the single sanction,”’ he
said. ‘‘But it’s up to the student body,
because they are the ones who have
to live with it.”

“One of the reasons, probably, that
we try to give the accused every ben-
efit of the doubt,’’ Coulling continued,

  

SIDNEY M.B. COULLING

“is the strictness of the penalty we
are giving.”

“The Honor System takes constant
reaffirmation” he said. “It was has
to be reaffirmed annually — it has to
be reaffirmed weekly. I stress that in
the pledging of papers that my
students turn in.”’

Coulling added that he thinks W&L
is lucky to still have a functioning
Honor System. He compared the
honor systems of several other col-
leges, some of which have done away
with them, to W&L’s.

“] do think it’s remarkable how

we’ve maintained the Honor System’

when very fine institutions have
abandoned theirs,”’ Coulling said.

Although the Honor System covers
all aspects of student life, Coulling
said the part he stresses is acade-
mics. ‘“The academic part means the
most to me. It is the very heart of the
Honor System.”

 

 

diet

 

A house in East Lexington is reflected in some flood water left over from last week’s storms

when flooding cut off the electricity
last Monday morning.

At that time the Houston Street
reservoir stood at 15 feet and the En-
field Road reservoir at 19% feet,
enough water for 1% days of normal
water consumption. An emergency
crisis was declared that Tuesday and
residents were asked to limit their
water consumption to ‘drinking,
cooking, necessary sanitation and
emergency uses.”’

On Tuesday morning almost one-
third of the water in the Houston
Street reservoir had been used, as

THE NEW OPTICIANS

Contacts— Glasses—Repairs

CHECK OUT CONTACT
REPLACEMENT COSTS

Next to Stop-in

 

 

  

Yaffe hite~Florist

Turkey and family, Thanksgiving
engagements,
Fill up your home with floral

    

the level sank from 15 feet to 11 feet.
The Enfield Road plant, which serves
Washington and Lee and Virginia
Military Institute, had only dropped
a foot from 1914 to 1814 feet.

“We could tell that people were do-
ing fantastic by looking at the tank
every day,’’ Roundy said.

The level of the Enfield Road tank,
which primarily serves the two
schools, showed that ‘““W&L and VMI
were doing their part.”’

The conservation measures work-
ed so well that a 6,000-gallon tanker
from Roanoke carried ‘‘borrowed’’

Water treatment plant resumes operations

water from the Enfield Road reser-
voir to Buena Vista on Tuesday.

Buena Vista’s water supply was
contaminated by flood waters that
entered the wells and it remains
quarantined. Roundy, who lives in
Buena Vista, said residents have
been advised to continue to decon-
taminate their water before use for
the next five to ten days.

By Friday, Lexington’s restric-
tions were relaxed and residents
were allowed to take showers and do
dishes.

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 
  
    
 
  
   

 
   
 

Harrisonburg
82 South Main

433-6801

   
 

SHALIMAR

SANTA’S BACK
Another New York Warehouse Buy!!!

Imported Cotton Clothing

es
—

wr

= §)

Staunton
11 Frederick St.

885-3354

Te PRE
fer, CHRISTMAS
Bary, SALLI

STARTING
NOVEMBER §

   
   
 

  
  
   

  

Buena Vista
Magnolia Ave.

  

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985, Page 5

 

EC

Continued from Page |

 

that in a practical sense, there could
be repercussions.

“The student body is not bound by
a decision, but it is affected by it,” he
said.

Junior EC representative Shayam
Menon pointed out that suspected
honor violations are suited individ-
ually to decide whether EC action is
necessary, and that the role of prece-
dent is unimportant. ‘‘Each case is
taken on its own individual merits,”
he said. “That’s just the bottom
line.”’

Thompson said some students may
use examples of past cases to decide
what to report to the EC. “‘It may in-
hibit some of them,” he said. “They
might be more likely to approach the
person and say, ‘I don’t know about
this thing,’ and try to determine their
intent. Others won’t be hindered at
all.”

Lewis said he thinks “students
have a certain reaction to every case
that goes open.”’

“T’m not going to tell you what I
think the reaction to this is going to
be,”’ he said. ‘The student body will
weigh this and decide if this is truly
what the student generation believes
or not.”

“T think students understand that
alcohol is not an excuse for an honor
violation,” he continued. “‘It isn’t in
the outside world, it isn’t in Student
Control, and certainly the Honor
System must hold the Washington
and Lee community to a higher stan-
dard than either of them.”’

Menon defended the EC against the
notion that the EC is not representa-
tive of, or is out of touch with, the stu-
dent body.

Chappell

 

‘“‘We’re elected by our classes,’’ he
said. ‘‘I pick up what honor means
from my friends around me, what I
hear from people. I hope we're in
touch — I think we are.”

Menon went on to say that this
year’s EC is made up of a wide cross-
section of the student body. ‘We have
such a diversified bunch of people, as
far as fraternities, as far as in-
dividuals. We have independents, we
have Pi Phis, we have an SAE, wild
partiers, people who don’t party so
much. We're a very diversified set of
people in that sense, and I hope were
in touch with honor, I think I am.”’

A point raised by some students on
campus this week was the single
sanction of the Honor System — the
expulsion of a student for a convic-
tion on an honor violation and
whether it is still viable for W&L.
Lewis and Menon both believe it is.

“Absolutely,” Lewis said. “A
graduated system of punishment in
the death knell for a time-honored
Honor System. No person is partially
honorable. You either are or you
aren’t. There is no degree of honor.”’

Menon cited the EC guidelines in
his response. “The only thing I can
point to is the White Book, where it
Says, ‘Honor is not measured by
degree,’ ” he said.

If the Honor System is not main-
tained as it is; Menon said, it will no
longer be unique. And neither will
Washington and Lee.

“We'll just have all math exams on
Mondays, all history exams on Tues-
days, all chemistry exams on Wed-
nesdays,”’ he said.

“We'll lock our doors up all the
time, we won’t leave our books in the
library....We will be just like any
other place. We'll let the faculty
police honor violations and cheat-
ing.”

 

 

©) Continued from Page 1

ed her intention to resign. She said
that she intended to work out a date
in December or January to leave
work.

“I don’t have another job waiting
in the wings,”’ she said she told Cap-
peto.
Chappell said Cappeto called her
into his office and told her, “I think
today should be your last day.”’

Chappell said that she was ‘“‘really
surprised” when he said this.

“‘T shook his hand, said ‘Thank you
very much,’ and left,”’ she said.

When asked about the incidents of”

the past week, Cappeto declined com-
ment, saying it is not acceptable
policy to discuss personnel matters
with the public. ‘It’s not something
to be talked about,” Cappeto said.
“This is not to say that we're trying

 

to cover something up,’’ he said, but
that events of staff meetings and per-
sonnel actions are not for the public.

 

 

 

  
   
  
 

WLUR-FM

Your station for Generals’ sports

 

Charism
Saturday, Nov. 16, 9-1 A.M.

Also,
The Thanksgiving Break Special Event

91.5

 

 

 

Rev. Billy Wirtz

on stage

Thursday, Nov. 21

 

ee

arrangements.

From Harrisonburg to Staunton and Buena Vista SANTA is DROPPING
PRICES for our Pre-Christmas Sale. All prices are being slashed on ail India

cottons. '§.99 or under
STORE HOURS: Monday thru Saturday 10 AM-6 PM

 
    

 

 

165 South Main Street 463-9152

 

 

 

 

    

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985

 

Grid streak ends,
but Weaver rolls

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

On Friday morning the Washington
and Lee football team left on a long
trip to play Ursinus in Collegeville,
Pa. Yet the return trip seemed even
longer after the Generals were hand-
ed a 26-23 loss that virtually dropped
them out of the NCAA Division III
playoff picture.

The Generals had entered the
game ranked sixth in the Southern
region, but the loss will certainly
cause their ranking to fall. With only
the top four teams in each region ad-
vancing into the playoffs, it seems
unlikely that W&L will be invited to
the tournament.

Saturday the Generals go against
Washington University at Wilson
Field in search of win No. 7 in what
probably will be their last game of
the season. Running back Kevin
Weaver will attempt to break W&L’s
single-season rushing record of 1,011
yards, held by Gene Girard. Weaver
needs 57 yards for the record.

Last Saturday, the Generals grabb-
ed an early 6-0 lead when Chris
Bleggi scored from his wingback
position on a 14-yard run. On the en-
suing kickoff, W&L recovered an Ur-
sinus fumble deep in the Bears’ ter-
ritory. However, Kevin Weaver
fumbled the ball back to Ursinus on
their 19-yard line.

“We had an excellent chance to

TIME

 

By Mike
Stachura

Unaware of his place

death of Pelle Lindbergh,
because a man has died before his
AS time. Lindbergh was a tremendous
athlete, but Lindbergh's ability does
not overshadow the unforgiveable
way which he led his last few hours.

score there and put them down 9-0 or
maybe even 13-0 before they got a
chance to get their heads above
water,” said Coach Gary Fallon.
‘But we fumbled the ball right back
and didn’t cash in on it. I think that
was the turning point of the game
— that was the spark that got them
started”

In the second quarter, the Bears
evened the game at 6-6 when they
scored on a l-yard run, and went
ahead 13-6 at the half on a 12-yard
pass from quarterback Brian Mc-
Closkey. McCloskey threw three
scoring strikes on the afternoon.

In the third quarter, the Generals’
B.J. Sturgill kicked a 32-yard field
goal to pull W&L to within four points
of Ursinus, 13-9. But Ursinus re-
sponded soon after with a 26-yard
touchdown pass to put them ahead,
20-9. They ran their lead to 26-9 on
another pass, this time a 24-yarder,
with 8:30 to go in the game.

“They scored the first time, and
then their defense held us and forced
us to give the ball back,’’ said Fallon.
“Then their quarterbaok got a hot
hand, and started finding his receiv-
ers. He put us on the run and they
scored a couple of times.”’

The Generals mounted a fourth-
quarter comeback attempt, scoring
twice in a seven minute span. The
first came on a 10-yard pass from Jon
Thornton to Randy Brown, followed

C)See Football, Page 7

 

..1 am saddened by the tragic
not

‘‘He loved life and lived it to the

 

 

 

fullest,’ was one of the comments
heard soon atter the death of Lindbergh, the Philadelphia Flyers
goaltender who drove his Porsche into a concrete wall while under the
influence of alcohol. The euphemism here is that it was OK that
Lindbergh drove a car too fast on an unfamiliar road while juiced
two-and-a-half times the allowable blood-alcohol level. Regardless of
the young man’s unfortunate death, Lindbergh’s actions have become
all too routine for the athlete of today, who more often than not is
something not worthy of respect, a species that barely sees farther
than his or her own nose.

Athletes cannot be and cannot consider themselves to be ‘“‘normal
people’’ in any sense. They are extraordinarily talented individuals
and their talent has placed them in the public eye. And because they
are in the public eye, they must act with the knowledge that their
every move is subject to public scrutiny. They must act knowing that
they are role models, that what they do in their lives affects many
more people than what you or I do. Simply put, they do not get to make
mistakes.

Harsh? Well, perhaps, but when you consider the important role pro-
fessional athletes play in our culture — misguided as it is — you relize
that we’re not just dealing with grown men playing child’s games.
When you ask about heroes in this society of ours, overwhelmingly the
list is topped with people who make a living out of wecring numerals
on their backs. Two things happen when an athlete fails to recognize
his own prestige, and, campers, neither of them is any good. Either
our younger athletes who look up to these hero-types say to
themselves, ‘‘Hey, this big-time world of sports is great. Big, fast cars
and you can stay out late and get drunk and have nothing but fun
without having anything to do with that silly old thing called responsi-
bility.” Or worse yet, our younger athletes don’t have any more
heroes.

Athletes don’t have the option to act carelessly, no matter how great
or how small. Kevin Weaver and Chris John are just as much heroes to
the professors’ kids here in Lexington — and maybe even more so
— than is a Pelle Lindbergh or a drug-using Dave Parker. It is a posi-
tion an exceptional athlete has to understand. It is that understanding
which should be in the front of his or her mind in the consideration of
any act: People are watching me. People respect me. Some people
even idolize me. Do I have license to do anything I want? No.

It is sad that Pelle Lindbergh died. It is sadder still that he died the
way he did. Sadder, because it is further indication that today’s athlete
is not aware of his place, and we are much the worse for it...

....Botching our way down the crumbling Colonnade, a month and a
half without a loss is nothing to be ashamed of. Trust that Gary
Fallon’s troops will be out in full force Saturday to get win No.
7....Let’s not discount those fine seasons by soccer, water polo and
cross country, either. It’s not wins and losses that measure a team’s or
an individual’s worth, it’s the strength of effort, and I see no Generals
coming up short in this category...

....Pro grid notes: ’Skins might wish to start thinking about 1986, or
baseball, for that matter...,Bears have not had a competitive game
against a worthy opponent since I don’t know when. Food for thought,
come this Sunday in Dallas...Steelers’ Louis Lipps reminds one a lot of
a young Pittsburgh receiver and punt returner about 10 years ago by
the name of Swann...

...Finally, something strange. If Notre Dame wins Saturday at
Penn State (not that unlikely), could Gerry Faust be the first coach

 

 

a -

 

By Appointment

Robin+ Peggy «Marie
LN A) ED) AA A 0 AE RE || EEO ERE TRY |) EES IE

   

ee

| as i Ml Ailes

463-9588

Chinese and
American Cuisine
Happy Thanksgiving
Exotic Cocktails

Carry-out Service

Available
Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 
 

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

Old Main St. Mall x

Lexington, VA 244 sof

<-> =

 

 

 

Senior Tim Stanford flies through the water en route to a Division III national quatitying time in the 100-yard butterfly ‘

Aquatics moves from one season.

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team found itself in an unusual
situation as it traveled to the Eastern
Championships this past weekend.
While head Coach Page Remillard
waited with his wife for the birth of
their daughter, the team not only
played against the top teams in the
east, but coached itself at the same
time.

While the team was dissappointed
with the statistical results of the
weekend, which included losses to
Brown -(12-1), Richmond (13-3) and
Slippery Rock (7-6), it they saw the
overall weekend as a good ex-
perience.

The Generals played remarkably
tight defense against top-seeded
Brown. W&L held Brown to a score of
3-1 in the first period and a 12-1 final.

The biggest dissappointment for
the team was the 7-6 loss to Slippery
Rock in double overtime.

Coach Remillard praised the
team’s performance and its peer
leadership. Of the loss to Slipery

s(Rock, Remillard commented on the

Soccer ends season at

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

Last Friday, the Washington and
Lee soccer team competed in its final
game of the season, losing to a na-
tionally ranked Division II Liberty
University, 2-0.

The loss left the Generals with a 6-6.
record, and because of the cancella-
tion of the game with Averette, it
meant that the team would have to
settle for a .500 season.

Although they were truly out-
matched talentwise, W&L came out
fired up. ‘We took the play to them,”
head coach Rolf Piranian said. “The
scoreboard read one thing but the ac-
tual on-the-field play was another.”
The intensity level combined with a

difference of the players having to
coach themselves. ‘An athlete
should only have to be concerned
with his performance,’’ he said.

Senior co-captain David Lewis
commented on weekend: ‘‘It was a
learning experience. We had to coach

ourselves. We had a great time
though.”

The Generals’ eighth place finish in
the tournament matched last year’s
finish and put W&L at 19-14 for the
season.

Looking back on the year, Remil-
lard said he saw a great deal of im-

a

>

provement frustrated by the strength
of arch-rival Richmond throughout
the season.
a
“It was a tough season because we
didn’t have to work that hard to be
second. We did work that hard ahd
we’re still second.” :

.,. to the next season

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

Tim Stanford qualified for the
NCAA Division III nationals by win-
ning the 100-yard butterfly and the
four-member women’s team cap-
tured first places in five of the seven
events it entered to get Washington
and Lee swimming 1985-86 off to a
good start last night in Cy Twombly
Pool.

Last night’s double dual meet saw
the men’s team down VMI, 68-43,
while the women were defeated by
Mary Baldwin, 57-35.

Looking ahead to the rest of the

game plan suited strictly for Liberty
enabled the Generals to stay close.
The teams went into intermission
sharing a stubborn scoreless tie.

The Generals knew coming into the
game that their on-the-field talent
didn’t quite equal that of Liberty.
Consequently, Piranian installed a
strategy that saw his team give up a
little offense in order to obtain a
defensive advantage. As soon as
W&L lost control of the ball in the
Liberty end, it retreated to its own
portion of the field and calmly
awaited the arrival of its counter-
parts. Once there, the Generals took
the upper hand and created some fine
counterattacks, Piranian said. Pira-
nian described the tactic saying, ‘“‘We
played offense full field and when we

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

11 W. Nelson Sf.

4 SHERIDAN
R SHERIDAN

463-2022

Watches and Jewelry Repairs
Gifts for All Occasions
We have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.

November
Special

(! [Grilled Cheese &
" Large Soft Drink

Only *1”

Nights Only

8:00-11:00 P.M.

regular season, the 1985-86 campaign
holds in store such highlights as the
John Hopkins meet and the Tri-State
Championship, held at Washington
and Lee this year. In addition, the
swimming program is the first
Washington and Lee women’s swim
team.

The men’s team is in an interesting
situation, as head coach Page Remil-
lard points out. ‘Most of the swim-
mers also play water polo, a season
which ended on Sunday. The swim-
mers hope to use their special condi-
tioning from water polo to beat Johns
Hopkins on Nov. 22,” Remillard said.

Senior co-captain David Lewis
believes that the team’s biggest dif-
ficulty, early on, will be in making

the transition from water polo ‘to
swimming. a

For the men, Remillard sees the
season as offering the possibility fer
great rewards or great disappoint-
ment. He believes the rewards will
come from a great deal of hard work.

The women’s swim team has three
regular swimmers who will compete
in a schedule similar to the men's,
though there will be some strictly
women’s meets.

Remillard commented on the
young women’s program: ‘‘We hawe
three very talented women. You
can’t win a meet with that, but I Yo
think we can win an event or two pr
maybe three. We will just waa to
wait and see.’

6-6 with Liberty loss

were on defense, we went half the
field with them, so they could do any-
thing they wanted to in their own
half.”” Had the Generals been able to
catch a break, their strategy may
have earned them a victory.

Liberty’s first goal came on their
second penalty kick of the game and
dealt a harsh mental blow to W&L. It
left the Generals trailing a team to
whom they had conceded superiority
prior to the game, due in large part to
officiating which the coach described
as ‘‘a factor.”’

“‘That’s the state of the game,” he
said. ““You have to live with it [of-
ficiating } in any sport.”

Liberty’s second goal came under
strange soccer circumstances. A shot
came from the outside, ricocheted off

of a goal post and found its way irfio
the back of the W&L net. r

A proud Piranian discussed his
team’s play, “‘You’re not going ‘to
find us hanging our heads about it,”’
he said. Our kids were playing as
hard when it was 2-0 as they wete
when it was 0-0.” v

Overall, the coach was satisfied
with his team’s performance. ‘A
winning season would have been’ a
step up but I’m comfortable with the
way this team played,” he said. ,

“They improved tremendously, yet
we've still got a long way to go befote
we become a very good soccer
team,’ a goal upon which the
Generals of ’86 can now start to stt
their sights. :¥

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROW Thue Value STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Mon. - Sat. 8:30-6:60
Sun. 1-5 :

The Student Activities Board

presents

Kentucky Fried
Movie

with cameo appearances by
Donald Sutherland
Henry Gibson
Bill Bixby

Thursday and Friday — 8:30
GHQ — Free Popcorn
Sunday — 7:00 and 9:30 P.M.
Student Center, Room 108
Admission *2

 

 
alae de

#

of

wee ae eee
*

o

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

“I don’t have an answer for it. I wish that I did,’’ he
said,
Canfield recalls large crowds in Doremus Gymna-

 

Fewer than 100 spectators in the 2,500-seat Warner
Center for a basketball game. The “traditional”
halftime exodus of fans at football games. A sports
-. luncheon that has more athletic department representa-

tives in attendance than anyone else.

These are symptoms of a disease called apathy, and
it’s afflicting Washington and Lee athletics, according to
coaches and administrators in that department.

sium, before Warner Center was built. Because it is
smaller, Doremus is much easier to pack than Warner
Center, but the number of fans that attend games today
in Warner could not even make an impression in the old
gym, according to Canfield.

And examining attendance statistics would not be ac-
curate, Canfield said, because the basketball program
and the Sports Information Department often pad the
figures so that they are not so embarrassing. Often the

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985, Page 7

‘Disease of apathy afflicting W&L athletics

They are concerned that a home game does not secure
a home-court advantage, does not reward its athletes
with the respect they deserve and does not reflect the
camaraderie that a small school supposedly offers.

“I am totally disappointed in student athletic sup-
port,’’ said head basketball coach Verne Canfield, who
regularly has seen poor turnouts for his team. ‘‘It’s such
a great school, and with a little more effort it could be a
little bit greater.”

Athletic Director William McHenry said there is a pro-
blem with student support, but added that he does not
know how serious it is.

Aquatics director Page Remillard said his teams
sometimes get good support, but only when he and the
players talk it up among their friends.

Canfield believes that Washington and Lee falls short
when it gives so little support to its student athletes. He
admits that W&L athletes participate in the University’s
athletic programs because they enjoy the sport, but he
believes that a student who gives so much time and ef-
fort to the University deserves its support.

Remillard said that students should realize, ‘‘If I go to
that game and do some cheering, I can help that team
win.’’

Third-year lacrosse head coach Dennis Daly is aware
of the apathy problem, as well. ‘‘I don’t sense that there
is a commitment by fellow students to support their
peers at extracurricular events,” Daly said.

Supporting the student athletes ‘‘is not too corny and
old fashioned, I don’t think,’’ concluded Canfield.

McHenry recognized the importance of student sup-
port. ‘‘When you have an enthusiastic crowd it always
helps the players,’’ he said.

He also added that small crowds have a negative ef-
fect. ‘The players are aware of big and small crowds,”
he said.

Canfield said he cannot understand why basketball
gets such small crowds. During his 22 years at W&L,
Canfield has averaged 16 wins a season. Successful

_ athletic programs usually attract some support but Can-
_ field readily admits that his team’s winning perfor-
mances do not appear to make a difference in its sup-

port.

crowds donot number more than100. :

Canfield, however, remains optimistic. Each season
he hopes that the crowds will arrive, and each night he
has all the bleacher sections pulled out, despite requests
to use only one to accommodate the small crowds.

Indeed, the student crowd can have a major impact on
the outcome of a game. Canfield believes that his teams
could win an extra two or three games a year with good
crowd support, and Remillard believes that a large and
active home crowd is worth at least two goals.

He explained that he and his players appeal to their
friends and supporters when they expect a close game.
“I think we get enough when we appeal to them for it.”’

“There doesn’t seem to be much spectator support
without myself or the athletes’”’ Remillard said.

Two weeks ago, Remillard and his players made their
appeal to the students for support. They got it. The W&L
community filled Cy Twombly arena for the Generals’
Southern League Championship game against Rich-
mond. The Generals did not win, but they did register
their best performance against Richmond this season in !
the 11-8 loss.

Crowds have not been so sparse for lacrosse, although
they have fallen off noticeably since the glory years in
the 1970s. ‘At Washington and Lee, lacrosse is as well at-
tended as any other sport,’’ said coach Daly.

Daly recalls crowds having significant impact on
several games during his first two seasons at W&L. He
cited the 1984 Navy game and the 1985 Maryland games
as examples. The Generals lost these games but posed a
serious threat to two of the higher-ranked teams in the
nation. Daly remembered that after those games the op-
posing coaches commented to him on the impact the
home crowd had during the game.

Daly said, though, that he is often not aware of the
crowd at most games because of the students’ tradition
of arriving late and leaving early.

The halftime exodus at athletic events confuses Daly
and other coaches more than any other aspect of student

support. Daly said he thought spectators attended a
game primarily for two reasons: to support the team

 

 

 

File photo by Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Empty bleachers: A sympton of the disease of apathy

and to watch the outcome of a game. But if a spectator
leaves at halftime, he has not offered much support and
has left the game with the outcome in doubt. :

Daly, who is also responsible for athletic departmen
promotions, suggested that the students are fragmented
owing to their residential patterns. —=

“T don’t know whether that is good or bad, but it just
a not contribute to the support of athletics,’ said Da-

ly.

Because most students live in town or in the country,
they have to make a greater effort to get to the games. In
this situation, coaches also have to rely on posters and
“spreading the word”’ to get crowds at the games.

McHenry stated that ‘‘at times” the W&L athletes do
receive support. McHenry noted that students attend
some athletic events such as football and lacrosse
games. He also noted that the soccer team has had some
nice crowds at its games this year.

Because most students belong to fraternities, Daly
believes that “the fraternities can go a long way to in-
crease student support.”

Interfraternity Council President Jaimie Hayne said

he has encouraged houses to move their football game
parties to the upper athletic field and to participate in
the Alumni Association’s pre-game tailgate party.
Hayne added that similar parties could be scheduled
before lacrosse games. He also said that he would like to
do something for basketball and that he would listen to
suggestions.

McHenry and Daly both see coeducation as another
possible remedy to the apathy problem. Daly was a stu-
dent at an all-male Amherst during the early 1970s.
When he returned to his alma mater to coach later that
decade at a coeducational Amherst, he noticed that stu-
dent support of athletic programs had increased. He at-
tributed the increase in part to the increase of athletes
on campus,

The freshman banner contest and its strong response
at the Homecoming game are physical evidence that co-
education has already contributed to a heightened stu-
dent interest in athletic programs. Although coeducation
cannot promise increased interest throughout the year,
many coaches remain optimistic that it will help.

‘We would all like to think that, but it remains to be
seen,” Canfield said.

 

‘*
s
a

“*%

‘*

 

oo
i)

fe Oe OG

Football

-, ( Continued from Page 6

 

by a 2-point conversion to narrow the
gap to 26-17. The second came on a 4-

’. yard run by Kevin Weaver. The con-
‘version failed and W&L trailed by

26-23. They got the ball back with 1:42
remaining, but time ran out with the
Generals on the Bears’ 42-yard line.

“We finally caught fire in the
fourth quarter and had a chance to
win it when we got the ball back with
about a minute and half remaining,
but we stalled,” said Fallon. The kids
were disappointed in their play, and
it was just a matter of them wanting
it more than us. We didn’t play 60
minutes of football.”’

Next week the Generals will face
the Washington University Bears
here in Lexington. The Bears have a
3-6 record, and lost to Millsaps last
week, 35-7.

“We can’t get caught looking at
their record,” cautioned Fallon. ‘“‘We

Wendell’s

Barber
Shop

| need your head for
my business.

have to get the job done on the field.
We have to play good, aggressive,
heads up, W&L football.’’ Fallon con-
tinued, “We had a soul-searching
meeting, I told them what I thought
of their performance, and I told them
what I thought needed to be done.
“‘We had six wins in a row, and we
can’t allow this one loss to affect us.
We have to put it behind us,” Fallon
said. ‘‘I’d like to see an all-out effort
on the part of our kids, and given that
kind of effort we could come out on
top. If not, I’ll still be proud of our
kids.”
SIDELINES: W&L is now 6-2 with a
41 record in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference...The ODAC

Sigma Delta Chi proudly presents the 3rd Annual
The Phi v. WLUR All-star Hoops Classic

champion(s) will be determined this
weekend when Emory and Henry
plays host to Maryville and Ran-
dolph-Macon plays host to Hampden-
Sydney. A Macon win assures the
Generals of at least a share of the
conference crown...Weaver rushed
for over 100 yards for the seventh
straight time this season against Ur-
sinus:..His eight points against the
Bears gave him the school record for
points in a season with 96..Saturday’s
game will be broadcast on WLUR-
FM (91.5) beginning at 1:20 p.m.
Coverage will include updates from
the E&H and R-M games.... Satur-
day’s gate receipts will be donated to
the flood relief effort...

Monday, November 18 7 p.m.

 

 
  

110 S. Jefferson St.
Le

Hours:
Sunday 10am to lam

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi:

Needs an Advertising Representative.
Learn the “‘ins and outs”’
of the advertising world
from seasoned professionals

 

Leave your name and number at
the Phi office (463-8581, 8582)

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

 

Catering

   
     

     
     
     
      

463-6080

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Cocktails®@ Wine@Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

University Florisi-

Under new management:
George Tolley, W&L ’72
Manager - Lisa Kirby

Designs made with a special touch
Just For You!

Buy 1 Rose,
Get 1 Free
$2.00 Off On Any Rose Corsage

We Accept Student Charges ,

15 W. Washington St.
Lexington, Va.

Harriers third at ODAC meet

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee cross

 

country team finished third at‘Satur- _
day’s Old Dominion Athletic Con-

ference Championships.

Roanoke, as expected, dominated
the event, finishing 37 points ahead of
the nearest competitor. Roanoke re-
corded a 31, followed by Hampden-
Sydney with a 68, W&L with a 70,
Lynchburg College with a 71, and

Warner Center

 

  

Mon.-Sat.7 °
8:30-5:00

      
   
       
        
 

Eastern Mennonite College with a
125.

As is evident from looking at the
scores, the most competitive. part of
the race occurred between the teams
running for the second through fourth
places.

Once again, Eddie Goundry paced
the Generals, finishing sixth. Scott
Rippeon, Ash Andrews, Michael Wat-
son, Ron Moody and Ted Myers ad-
ded support, finishing fifth, 16th,
19th, 21st and 22nd respectively.

Our

4 ‘Typing’ 9
Is

WordPerfect

Despite the respectable third place
finish, Coach Dick Miller said, ‘“We
didn’t run too well. Ron Moody’s
back was hurting him, which didn’t
help us.” .

This weekend the Division III
regional semifinals will be run at
Emory University. The top seven
runners for the Generals will travel
to Atlanta to try to qualify the team
or some individual runners for fur-
ther competition.

DATA SERVICES
203 N. Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-9455

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The luxury salon
without the luxury pricetag

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hairstyling (10% off on

haircuts for
WE&L students)

    
 

 

 

|_ Cosmetics

 

 

— Tanning

 

 

 

 

 

 

Capers: When only the best
will do.

25 N. Main St.
463-2566

  

 
-BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985

 

 

Taco Bell and more
all in Williamsburg

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

The sign read something like this:
No motorized vehicles allowed be-
tween 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. In this world
of fast cars and fast women, why
would motorized vehicles not be al-
lowed on a street? The answer is that
the street is one not of the 1980s, but
of the 1770s. It is a street in Colonial
Williamsburg

Williamsburg is a town that see
thes with historical significance. The
fathers of our country met there
prior to the summer of 1776. The sec-
ond university founded in the United
States, William and Mary (they say it
was the first one planned) is there.
The Rockefeller family decided to
restore the colonial part of town. If
you think that the sum of all this
history is a boring weekend, you are
at least partially wrong.

Colonial Williamsburg is a place
that has been tastefully restored to
its pre-Revolutionary War grandeur
The old part of town is just like it was

way back when. Even the employees
of the place dress up in colonial
clothes. One can view of a number of
attractions there — the Governor’s
Palace, the Rockefeller House, a
blacksmith’s shop, a military gar-
rison, the College of William and
Mary and various stores that sell
“old timey’’ stuff. Although this
sounds quite boring, it really isn’t.
The old stuff really is interesting, if
not out-of-control.

Because no cars are allowed in the
historical area, one must walk
around to see everything. Walking
makes me hungry and Colonial Wil-
liamsburg has a number of fixed-up
old taverns. The Christiana Camp-
bell, Chewing’s, and the King’s
Arms’ Taverns are in the old district
and serve food similar to that of col-
onial days. Don’t worry, though —
the food is not squirrel tartar served
by a hefty woman who has not taken
a bath in weeks (those were two char-
acteristics of the 1770s, a tour guide
said). The food is very good and serv-
ed in a pleasant, different environ-
ment

As far as eating dinner goes, one
should try Berrett’s or the Williams-
burg Inn. Both are quite good and run
about $40 tor two people.

For those who think the idea of a
1770s town is boring, here is what you
have been looking for: the night life
is dead. Williamsburg is just not a
party town, unless you consider it a
madcap time dancing in a Best West-
ern lounge to the tunes of a band
leader who also advertises as a
notary _ public.

All in all, a trip to Williamsburg is
highly recommended. Besides, for all
the history one might learn, Wil-
liamsburg offers other advantages.
The serious tourists (equipped with
photo-Patriot passes) are quite
amusing. It is amazing to see how
many of them buy (and wear) those
stupid looking black triangular hats
with gold trim. And it is not unwise,
for humor’s sake, to take a picture of
the line of people waiting to get their
pictures taken in the stockade. And
last but far from least, Williamsburg
has a Taco Bell and that should con-
vince even the most skeptical to go.

 

A horse-drawn carriage rolls down Duke of Gloucester Street in Williamsburg.

 

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

‘Macready!’ plays Henry Street

 

Staff Report

 

Frank Barrie of the British Na-
tional Theatre will perform his inter-
nationally acclaimed one-man show
‘“‘Macready!’’ at the University
Theatre tomorrow and Saturday
nights at 8.

Barrie’s show was successful on
Broadway and London’s West End,
where it won him the best actor in the
Plays and Players Awards.

“Macready!” is based on the life of
19th century actor William Charles
Macready, who tovred America ex-

tensively and was involved in one of
the most scandalous episodes in
American theater history, the
famous Astor Place Riots of 1849.

Barrie was invited by Laurence
Olivier to join the National Theatre
and played leading roles with the
company for four years.

His show, sponsored by the drama
department, is the first in a planned
guest series to be presented annually
by the University Theatre.

It is open free to W&L students,
faculty and staff. For reservations,
call 463-8637.

 

FRANK BARRIE

 

  
   
     
   
   
     
   
 

Our lines features:

Visa

 

 

Aluin-Bennis
Welcome W&L Alumni

Alvin Dennis has expanded and invites you to
come in and view our fall clothing.

Sero Shirts, Woolrich, Izod, and Dean’s Sweaters, Woolrich
outerwear, Dress Corduroys, Duckhead Khakis, Bass,
Clark & Topsider Shoes.

102 N. Washington St.
M/C

 

  

 

Student Charge

 

   

 

hh,
P “4

   

 

Pri-4z-Z0

(Pre- -Ott-so) youll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Fat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

 

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

Please present coupon when ordering Not
ash redemption value © 193 Piste H

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

on
Pizza

   

Hut.

we
Se
si

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

11-30-85

 

 

For Sale
1985 300 ZX Turbo

Many Extras
Call after 5 p.m. 261-3239

 

 

 

SERVICDTAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware
_ ___ 463-2242

 

 

 

5

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over
50 years
Main Street, Lexington

463-3612

 

 

 

Dac

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

University Theatre.
Lewis Hall. Public invited.

8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM:
Lewis Hall.

Center. -

Auditorium, University Library.

Commerce School.
Center.
Room 203, Reid Hall.

4 p.m.

Commerce School.

Admission is $2.50.

 

7 and 9:15 p.m. — JOURNALISM FLIM:

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, November 14
7 p.m.— JOURNALISM FILM: ‘‘Soldier Girls.’ Room 203, Reid Hall.
7 p.m. — ROMANCE LANGUAGE FILM: “Umberto D.”’ Italian with
English subtitles. duPont Auditorium.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Quink Vocal Group. Sponsored by Rockbridge
Concert Theatre Series. Lee Chapel.
8:30 p.m. — FILM: ‘Kentucky Fried Movie.”
dent Activities Board. General Headquarters.

Sponsored by the Stu-

Friday, November 15
8 p.m, — PLAY: ‘‘Macready!”’ One-man show starring Frank Barrie.

8 p.m, — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Chan is Missing.” Classroom A,
8:30 p.m. — FILM: ‘‘Kentucky Fried Movie.”’ GHQ.

Saturday, November 16
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘“‘Macready!’’ University Theatre.

“Chan is Missing.’’ Classroom A.
7 and 9 p.m. — FILM: ‘‘Kentucky Fried Movie.’’ Room 108, University
Monday, November 18
7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM: ‘‘King Lear.’’ BBC Series. Northen

9 p.m. — FOOTBALL: New York Giants vs. Washington Redskins.
Free Popcorn. General Headquarters.

Tuesday, November 19
5 p.m. — BIOLOGY FORUM: Film: “Life: Patent Pending.’’ Discus-
sion led by Dr. John Knox. Room 305. Parmly Hall.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “Nicholas and Alexandra.’’ Room 327,

7p.m.— WORKSHOP: Job Hunting Techniques. Room 114, University

“It’s a Wonderful Life.”’

Wednesday, November 20
— SOCIOLOGY & ANTHROPOLOGY COLLOQUIUM:
“Defending Land Rights of Australian Aborigines.’ Mr. Jeffrey Sher,
WA&L Visiting Law Professor. Room 9, Newcomb Hall.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘“‘Nicholas and Alexandra.”’ Room 327,

9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN GENERAL HEADQUARTERS.
Featuring Brice Street. Sponsored by the Student Activities Board.

Compiled by Marie Kothman

 

 

 

Horror with.
big teeth

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

 

Most recent horror movies seem
based on one premise: some psyco-
path is running around and hacking
up virgins. ‘‘Fright Night’’ does not
fit that mold. Instead, it is a modern-
day vampire tale with a lot of old-
fashioned feeling.

William Ragsdale plays a teenager
with a problem: he’s convinced his
new next-door neighbor is a vampire
and is killing people on his nightly
jaunts. The trouble is no one believes
his story, but he makes enough noise
to disturb the vampire and thus set
himself up as the next victim. He
eventually turns to Roddy McDowell,
for help. McDowell plays a washed-
up actor whose great strokes had
been as a vampire killer

The plot is tight, and the perfor-
mances are really quite good. Rags-
dale makes the perfect teen hero
—clumsy, scared and _ ultimately
triumphant, and McDowell is very
entertaining.

But the ‘master’ performance
belongs to Chris Sarandon as the
modern-day, yuppie vampire. He is
suave and menacing at the same
time, and his hypnotic seduction of
Ragsdale’s girlfriend Amy (Amanda
Bearse) oozes sensuality.

Writer-director Tom Holland has
created a truly uniquestory, combing
vampire lore with modern teen and
action movies. The special effects
add quite a bit; though, I was disap-
pointed that Holland spent so much
time showing us melting bodies at the
end of the movie.

All in all, “Fright Night” is enter-
taining and, at times, frightening.
This is a can’t miss picture, and I
recommend it highly.

SNL: not much entertainment

 

By BILLHANNA
TV Critic

 

It was Saturday, and since our
fraternity was still on social proba-
tion, a few of us decided to rent a
VCR along with about five movies.

We would stop the movies for an oc-
casional look at some football scores,
including the comedy occurring in
the last seconds of the LSU game.
Domino’s provided a way to keep us
inside and uninterrupted while not
starving, and it turned out to be a
pretty good way to spend the day.

At around 11:30 that night, some-
one mentioned that tonight was the
first episode of the new “Saturday
Night Live’’ season featuring a new
cast, and we decided to stop the
movie we were watching and see
what the show was like.

We tuned in as the traditional open-
ing was beginning and those familiar
words, ‘Live, from New York, it’s
Saturday Night” brought back me-
mories of past seasons, especially the
first ones. We hoped for something
from the new cast that would bring
back the quality the show had when
Chevy Chase, John Belushi, Dan
Aykroyd and the rest were still on.

As the stars of the show were an-
nounced, none were familiar, but
neither were any of the original ‘‘Not
Ready for Prime Time Players,” so
there was still hope.

The guests of the show looked good
as Madonna was the host and Simple
Minds was the musical group.

After the opening, Madonna came
out on the stage to do the monologue
and even this had a few laughs as she
showed some videotape of her wed

ding which was cleverly altered by
SNL.

As for the rest of the show, aside
from the appearances of Simple
Minds and the comedy team of Penn
and Teller, there was not much enter-
tainment. Aside from a line or two,
the new cast should have gone home
after the monologue.

To start with, the acting was so
poor you could see some of the cast
reading directly from cue cards,
Even Madonna acted circles around
the new players.

Granted, the material the cast had
to read was not the most amusing
and some or most of the blame for the
show’s lack of entertainment has to
be put on the lack of humor and crea-
tivity of the script.

Maybe one of the problems of the
show is the lack of personality por-
trayed by the cast. In the old shows,
you knew the type of character
Chase, Belushi or Aykroyd would be
playing. The comedy of each actor
came through with as much humor
no matter if the skit was ‘‘Samurai
Fisherman”’ or the sketches involv-
ing the bees

The show needs a lot of work if it is
to last past this eleventh season.

One idea NBC should try in order to
fill the time slot is to show all the past
episodes of the show starting from
the beginning. After a year or so,
maybe the network will begin to see
the big difference between the first
and the latest versions ot the pro-
gram and adjust both their writing
and cast accordingly.

Now for the highlights.
Thursday: Tonight at 8,
Follett’s screen adapted novel, ‘
of the Needle,”

Ken
‘Eye
will be shown star

ring Donald Sutherland.

ABC will also try to dent NBC's
successful lineup as the premiere of
“Shadow Chasers”’ will be on from 8
until 10.

Saturday: CBS will show the net-
work premiere of ‘‘Rocky III’’ at 9.
Not bad timing as ‘‘Rocky IV” will
begin playing in movie theatres soon.

After the Rocky movie, channel 5
will show the film, ‘The Day of the
Jackal’ at 11.

Sunday: Today, there are some
great movies that should keep just
about anyone entertained for a solid
eight hours. Things start at noon with
an Errol Flynn Classic, ‘‘The Adven-
tures of Robin Hood” on channel 12.

This is followed by three good
movies on channel 5. The entertain-
ment continues at 2 with Clint East-
wood starring in ‘‘A Fistful of Dol-

lars.” This is followed at 4 with
another Eastwood film, ‘Dirty
Harry.’’ Another police-type movie

follows at 6 with Al Pacino starring in
“Serpico,”

Unfortunately, this ends at 8 as the
networks have little to offer aside
from the CBS mini-series, ‘‘Kane and
Able,” an ABC theater presentation
and a made-for-TV movie on NBC.

Monday: NBC will show the Walt
Disney classic, ‘‘Dumbo”’ at 8, The
Woody Allen movie, ‘Annie Hall,”’
will also be shown at 8 on channel 12.

Wednesday: Again, channel 12 will
have a good movie as the original
“M*A*S*H” will be shown at 8. ‘St.
Elsewhere,” on NBC at 10, will bring
a character out of the past as Mr.
Carlin, from the old Bob Newhart
show, played by Jack Riley, shows up
in the psycho ward of the hospital
