* ~ - a . ~ - *. * . . - - - . 4 < < +. . - * ° - ‘

 

- - » - -~ » « 7 - ~ « + . . - ~ « * -

   
   
    
  

 

Time’s up
Student beats
chalk rap

Page 3

Che KRing-tum

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 14

 

Time Out

in Farmville

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Something rotten

 

Page 6

 

 

 

Your weekend weather

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Bhi *

Increasing cloudiness Friday,
fair Saturday; highs in the 40s

 

WASHINGTON & Lee
eee VA 24450

( 1986

AW

JANUARY 9, 1986

 

 

Day

Ariel’s oe
actions
probed

20 meal plan.

locations.

 

 

(print name legibly) _
I will eat (lunch) (dinner) in
the GHQ today rather than Evans Hall.

I understand that I may not dine in both

 

 

(signature)

= = em Of fhe
(class)

 

Darrell calls food theft
a growing problem

 

By MATT HARRINGTON
Staff Reporter

 

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

Last month’s issue of the Ariel, the
University literary magazine, includ-
ed a question-and-answer article in
which ‘‘a lot of the questions’ were
from another magazine, the accom-
panying photographs were cut out of
a University Library book and print-
ed without crediting the source, and
the introduction was copied from a
press release, according to those
associated with the story.

Ariel editor Bob Strickland said he
cut two pages from a University
Library book for use in the magazine
and later returned the book to the
library without the photos.

University Librarian Barbara J.
Brown said it appeared the pages had
been sliced out with a razor blade.

Strickland said yesterday that the
photographs are now in his apart-
ment and that it was a case of “‘good
intention but bad judgement.”

“I took the pictures out of the
book,’’ said Strickland, a senior from
San Antonio. ‘I was responsible.”

The photographs came from ‘‘Sca-
vullo: Francesco Scavullo Photo-
graphs, 1948-1984,”’ a 224-page book
with an invoice price of $57.69.

Pictures by Scavullo of rock stars
David Bowie and Sting accompany
the question-and-answer interview
with the photographer that appears
in the Ariel. Brown, the librarian,
said those are the two pages missing
from the University’s book.

On Tuesday night, Strickland said
the Executive Committee had told
him not to discuss the matter, but
yesterday he confirmed details of the
incident.

Strickland said he does not con-
sider his actions to be the theft or a
potential honor violation. ‘I don’t
believe I stole the pictures,” he said.
“I don’t see it as an honor offense.”

“I did it for the benefit of the
magazine,’’ he added. ‘‘I didn’t do it
for personal joy.”’

In fact, Strickland said he wanted
to put more pictures in the December
edition of the biannual magazine. ‘‘I
wanted to have more pictures in
order to invite the reader into the
story,” he explained.

The issue first came to light on
Monday, when the EC announced the
damage at its public meeting and
said that next week it was going to
question Strickland and freshman
Monica Burke, who wrote the article
the photos accompanied.

Vice President Andrew Caruthers
said at the meeting that the damage
was brought to his attention by “a
person who works in the library” and
that ‘‘they were a bit irritated.”

Lewis held up a copy of the Ariel
while he passed along to the commit-
tee the information Caruthers had
given him.

“These two pictures came out of a
book,”’ Lewis began. ‘“They came out
of a book in the library. They were
cut out of a book in the library and

 

 

put in the magazine.”’
“Oh, gosh,” a committee member
said. T

“Believe it or not,’’ Lewis con-
tinued. ‘And we need to discover
from the editor of the Ariel who cut
these pictures out of the book
because the two pictures are missing

 

 

Students who eat in General Headquarters must sign this paper

 

A sign reminds students of continental breakfast rules

Students frequently break ‘‘crystal
clear” University food service rules,
costing the school money and possi-
bly violating the Honor System, ac-
cording to Food Services Director
Gerald J. Darrell.

Common offenses; he said, include
eating a meal in General Headquar-
ters and then wandering upstairs to
refill a soft drink or eat a dessert,
forgetting to present a point card to
the checker in the dining hall line,
neglecting to, pay for food in the Co-
op, and eating the dining hall’s con-
tinental breakfast when not on the
contract plan.

Darrell said that when a student is
confronted with one of these actions,
the response is generally along the
lines of “Oh, shoot. I’m sorry — I
forgot.”

“Tt happens all too often,’’ Darrell
said, adding, though, that he has
never turned a student in to the Ex-

Halley’s hopefuls

ecutive Committee for investigation
of a potential honor infraction.

“It’s a very difficult thing,’’ he
said. ‘I’m just trying to say to peo-
ple: ‘Hey, the Honor System does ap-
ply in food service.’ ”’

“If people continue to do this, I
foresee a big financial problem in the
future,”’ he continued. ‘‘It is already
starting to pinch us.”’

Executive Committee President
John Lewis said he thinks Darrell
should report such incidents for in-
vestigation. ‘‘It’s stealing,’’ he said.

“We all know Jerry Darrell can’t
afford to have us eat in both places,”’
he added. ‘It may be that people
don’t understand the policy.”’

Lewis said that for a student to fail
to pay for Co-op purchases is ‘“‘defi-
nitely taking advantage of the ex-
treme trust that’s there.”’

Contract students who elect to eat
in GHQ rather than Evans Dining
Hall sign a card for each meal that
says: ‘I understand that I may not
dine in both locations.”’

“We’ve made it crystal clear,”

Darrell said. ‘‘We’ve put it on the
meal cards and in bulletins and news-
letters. People should be aware now
that they can only eat in one place.”’

He said that some students also fail
to identify themselves to the checker
when they go through the Evans Din-
ing Hall line, meaning that they’re
not counted or their points aren’t
marked off.

“They're irritated when you ask
them about it,’’ Darrell said. ‘‘They
just don’t want to bother.”’

“This has proven to be a big book-
keeping problem for the food ser-
vice,”’ he continued. ‘‘Sometimes we
just don’t know who is or is not on the
meal plan.”

Dining hall contract students will
be required to pick up a green ‘‘Win-
ter Term” meal card from the Bus-
iness Office and show it to the
checker through Wednesday.

Another problem identified by Dar-
rell is with students who eat the din-
ing hall’s continental breakfast,
which is offered only to 20-meal con-
tract students.

A how-to guide to viewing the comet, and what to expect

 

 

from the book,”’ he said.
“T think we ought to freeze their

(See Ariel, Page 4

© What’s dinner in GHQ like? Find out how students we polled feel
about it, page 3

* Coeducational housing for the unromantically linked may be in
W&L’s future, page 4

* It’s going to be ‘‘musical offices’’ in the Commerce School when

the dean retires, page 5

¢ You’ve read Esquire’s Dubious Achievement Awards for 1985;
now take a look at ours, page 8

 

By Scott J. Ferrell/W&l

Above: Searching the skies; right: Look west-southwest

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

Hundreds of hopeful comet watch-
ers crowded into the darkened back
campus of Washington and Lee Tues-
day evening, braving freezing tem-
peratures, waiting for what many
thought would be the spectacular

flash of Halley’s Comet streaking

across the sky.

Binoculars, telescopes and squint-
ed eyes scanned the sky in search of
the comet until the fuzzy, dim pin-
point of light in the southwest was
identified as the comet by W&L

physics Professor Ronald Reese,
organizer of the viewing.

Reese explained that the comet’s
weak appearance was due mainly to
its position in relation to the earth
and also to the amount of light given
off by buildings, street lamps and
surrounding stars.

He said that the best time for view-
ing the comet should be within the
next 10 days, shortly before and after
the appearance of the new moon.
After that time, moonlight will make
observing the comet difficult at best.

Reese added that viewing the com-
et at this time is also good because it
appears in the evening and is high in
the sky.

When the comet reappears in
March and April, following its disap-
pearance in February as it gets close
to the sun, it can only be seen early in
the morning and will be very close to
the horizon, he said.

To see the comet, Reese suggested
that a dark area in the country, away
from lights of Lexington, be found
and that binoculars, rather than a
telescope, be used. He recommended
the binoculars because the limited
field of view of a telescope will not

f allow the entire comet to be seen.

During this month, one can locate
the comet in the southwest, about a
handspan .bove Jupiter, at about
6:30 p.m., he said.

 

 

‘e* Aquarian Water Jar

*

\ Comet Halley
Moon (Jan. 12)

@ Jupiter

  

West/Southwest

  

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

 

 

The fencing team, which has been operating on
the club level for nine years and was hoping to
become a varsity sport by providing the athletic
department with its fourth women’s team, won’t
be rising to the varsity level after all, according to
a decision made by University President John D.
Wilson.

Wilson said yesterday that his decision was bas-
ed on an athletic budget that is supporting 13 male
varsity sports, three female varsity sports, and
women’s team sports like basketball and lacrosse
that will become necessary as the number of
women at Washington and Lee increases,

“We have a big agenda before us,”’ Wilson said

Another consideration Wilson cited was that the
team is coached by two volunteers — University
psychologist Dr. David Worth and E.S. Humphries
of Lexington — and if the school makes a commit-
ment to a team and for some reason the coaches
stopped coaching, an added expense would be in-
curred.

“IT don’t want to do it in a half-baked way,”
Wilson said.

Worth, who has coached the team since its in
ception nine years ago, said the team is disap-
pointed but is thankful for the support it has
received.

The team applied for varsity status to the
University athletic committee two years ago,
Worth said.

“They agreed in principle, but it just wasn’t
possible,"’ he explained, because of budgetary

Money matters crush fencing’s varsity hopes

constraints.

The athletic committee voted before Christmas
to recommend that Wilson make fencing a varsity
sport, according to committee chairman and
geology Professor Samuel Kozak.

A National Collegiate Athletic Association rule
requires coeducational schools to field at least
four women’s teams. With two women members,
the team applied for varsity status again.

‘We naturally were hoping that would work
out,’ Worth said.

Even though it didn’t, Worth said he is pleased
that the team has the support of the athletic com-
mittee and that because of its efforts its members
may receive physical education credit.

Athletic Director William D. McHenry said golf
will probably be the fourth women’s team, and
that there is also interest in indoor track
 

 

 

 

OPINION
Nice try

At the time, it seemed nonsensical, bewildering, befuddling
and amazing. It still does appear to be a classic case of ‘‘open
mouth and insert foot.’’

, (@4Fttee Monday night discussed at its
enn whatunamy students would at first glance see
tls ‘a questionable action. Pictures, we were told, were torn
from a book in the library and reproduced in the Ariel, the
undergraduate literary magazine. The EC bafflingly con-
tends that there was nothing wrong with discussing the mat-
ter in public because it came to them as a disciplinary rather
than an honor matter.

If it was an act of vandalism, the Student Control Commit-
tee should have taken up the matter in private. If it were an
instance of theft and possible plagiarism, the EC should have
followed standard procedure for a secret honor investigation.
(That used to be the only kind there was). And if it was mere-
ly a stupid act by an inexperienced editor or writer, it pro-
bably wasn’t the EC’s business at all. That’s what the Univer-
sity Publications Board is for. So whichever option is correct,
it clearly was not a matter for public student body consump-
tion.

The committee, though, did not stop at describing the inci-
dent. It then went on to reveal the names of the two students
they plan to question regarding the incident. It was every-
thing you would think a preliminary investigation ought to in-
clude: the alleged action, the names of the people involved
and a call for further information. Yet the EC had let the pro-
verbial cat out of the bag by violating the confidentiality of a
possible honor matter — the very confidentiality about which
the committee recently has been crowing so self-righteously.

We urge the Publications Board to consider the Ariel alle-
gations seriously. Only by policing its own ranks in a profes-
sional manner can it preclude EC intervention in the internal
affairs of student publications. The committee, in turn,
should respect the board’s jurisdiction. Monday night’s cir-
cus in the EC room seemed amateur and unnecessary.

The Ariel editor — like any student officer — is not exempt
from the Honor System. At the same time, though, he de-
serves the same fair treatment, and due process should be
the rule — not the exception — in such cases.

We could repeat the adage that given enough rope, fools
hang themselves. We could say that the pristine image erect-
ed by the EC after a recent meeting about publication of in-
formation regarding a student bodv honor hearing has been
tarnished and that the men in white look a bit soiled.

But we won’t: the facts speak for themselves.

Why did the EC handle this particular case in this manner?
Why were the facts of this particular case presented in a
public meeting? It is one matter to discuss facts of a par-
ticular honor case after it has been tried publicly — or even to
publish those facts — but it is an entirely different matter to
discuss in a public forum the details of what might even hint
of a possible honor matter.

We hope that in the future the EC opens an investigation
before it opens its mouth.

Upset stomach

The news that students are abusing the newly-instituted
privileges at General Headquarters is distressing for several
reasons, not the least of which is the additional indication

that the Honor System at Washington and Lee might very
well be more rumor than reality.

When the ‘Cockpit’? began allowing students on the 20-
meal contract plan and point-card holders to take their lunch
in the dimly-lit eatery instead of the Evans Dining Hall,
everyone welcomed the switch. The change in environment
and menu met with little disagreement.

This year, the renamed GHQ Tavern started a similar pro-
gram for the evening meal as well. Students flocked to
the ‘‘restaurant’’ and, for the most part, were surprised by
the good food and service.

But at the bottom of every barrel is the rotten apple, and
we seem to have quite a crop. Students, we’re told, repeated-
ly, frequently — flagrantly — abuse the system designed to
rescue the financially-ailing GHQ. By lying about their meal
plan, eating the same meal on the same day at both establish-
ments or even by refilling their drinks from the GHQ at the
soft drink dispenser in the dining hall, students are cheating
the food service people. It seems to us to be of little difference
whether you refill a Coke or refresh your memory during a
test by glancing at a notebook.

Students seem to forget that the GHQ exists to serve
students and members of the community, and cheating the
establishment out of a few pennies here or a meal there will
only hurt students in the long run — especially when the GHQ
closes because it cannot operate at a profit.

Deceit is deceit, and the Honor System — whether alive or
ailing or deceased — cannot coexist with students who mock
it.

ee
Che Ring-tum Phi

 

DIRT 6a. s ist ccescsvccdeebcssscceetensssrcGeeeis) csepteees: Mike Allen
LL EUPPTESUT TE Cee PPLERE LETTER er or reir ye Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
WRI I 5 oc ccc rvce rcv cece ccesscecceserscctisessssssssts Reade Williams
I I ibn io cece e idea ek ewes ctdeedpssesewesscectiovesdast Mike Stachura
WOGPITUAT ARO TINIE oon ccc ccc rece cccscecccceeteccvccscseceeceee Nelson Patterson
TR G4 ao 6 S84 6 0h bs O85 ou eens ccc eg tdes erieacescsscsceeraas Jim Strader
i hake 6 heigbecd ceeas Wien eects diets iii nied iva Chris Bowring
te A igo ois os cuties versions eses cre piveescesccubens Jeff Kimbell
WEE Foi kirc oe heehee 0 88) bcc eer aerie dienes sees Hank Greenberg
A Keri Hinrichs
John Feyrer
Jay Reville
ee Seer re i Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and businéss manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

Method 219: Continue to Drop/Add ’til February; Change your major twice
(by that time the road to Goshen Pass should be completed).

 

 

Honor system deserves public forum

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

In the weeks immediately
preceding the Christmas holiday,
there was an exhibition of photo-
graphs by Emile Zola (1840-1902) on
display in the library. I was some-
what surprised, though, by the vio-
lently anti-Zola graffiti that began
appearing in the library elevators. I
knew that Zola was a bit radical for
the political tastes of most Washing-
ton and Lee students — none of
whom, I dare say, are often caught
by shocked fraternity brothers in the
act of reading French social novels
or the great polemic ‘‘J’Accuse.”’

The graffiti did not abate with the

lc

passage of a week; in fact, it prolifer-
ated. Finally, I made the connection
that would have struck me earlier,
had it not been for the confusion caus-
ed by the posters advertising the
photographic exhibition: Emile was
the wrong Zola.

Without delving into the immaturi-
ty of writing on walls, it is clear that
the elevator doors in the library have
become the W&L equivalent of the
wall posters in Peking (or is it Beij-
ing, now?). Over the years, I have
seen statements that were anti-Rea-
gan (rare, but gratifying), anti-Mon-
dale (amusing), anti-women (stu-
pid), and anti-Wilson (preposterous).
However, this last round of scribbl-
ings has been the most thought-pro-
voking, at least for me.

Whether or not one believes that
the Honor System is operating pro-
perly (and my opinions on this mat-
ter have been oft-stated in this

space), it would seem that discus-
sions about the workings of the Honor
System can only serve to strengthen
it. But it is this very discussion the
Executive Committee wishes to
quell: Perhaps the EC fears that ar-
ticles in The Ring-tum Phi concern-
ing ‘‘open” honor hearings will ex-
pose the EC to ridicule. Whatever the
reasons, attempts to prohibit an open
debate on ‘‘open trials” would defeat
an ancillary purpose of such hear-
ings, which is to reveal to the student
body the methods by which the Honor
System is enforced and justice (for
that is what it is) meted out.

A newspaper is supposed to serve
as a means for debate. Editorials,
columns, and letters to the editor are
parts of this debate. The news report-
ing provides the foundation for the
debate, as otherwise discussion can
be based only on rumor and half-
truth. By banning any mention of

A RECENT STUDY SAYS BEER
IN MODERATION MAY BE GOOD
FoR YouR HEALTH.

 

lh’? OS

 

 

 

 

 

BEER. MAYBE

THAT'S THE SECRET.

Over Me guermo weW!
UPAVERIAL PRECS SWAID.

To the editors:

 

I’m writing to address the ridiculous practice
of placing W&L women on pedestals above
women of the neighboring colleges. Though other
administrators have done this in the past,
nothing can touch the statement made by Assoc-
iate Dean of Students Anne C.P. Schroer in the
Dec. 12 issue of The Phi. She is quoted as saying
that W&L women are ‘“‘much more independent”’
than women at area colleges. The Phi took this to

mean that “they have more confidence to ex-
press their values than students who have been
less successful academically and socially.’’ This
must sound great to the area women’s colleges,
hearing that they are inferior to the goddesses
we are blessed with here at W&L.

As W&L has such high criteria for admission, I
must concede that the W&L girl may be academ-
ically more successful. However, to say that this
superiority carries over to social aspects is
something I find humorous. W&L girls would do

BEER. MAYBE
THAT'S THE SECRET,

 

MODERATION. MAYBE
THAT'S THE SECRET

 

Reader says take W&L women off pedestal

well to take lessons in that area from the
women’s colleges.

I have no complaint against the female stu-
dents at W&L. The problem lies with the admin-
istration’s belief that these women are a super
race that are far from the reach of other female
students in the area, I only hope the women here
are intelligent enough not to believe this.

open honor hearings in The Phi, the
EC would protect itself from criti-
cism. However, it would also deal a
blow to the freedom we have to con-
Sider the EC’s actions and the effec-
tiveness of the Honor System. A
move by the EC to restrict the source
of news important to W&L students,

-

and thus to weaken the foundation of .

debate, would be tyrannical, uncons-
cionable and dangerous. It should be
opposed by all members of the W&L
community. Surely the EC can recog-
nize the untenable nature of the posi-
tion it has recently espoused.

To use a word that is oft-misused,
censorship of debate about open
Honor hearings is un-American, and
should be rejected. Let us take
debate out of the elevators, and put it
in The Phi, in the dorms and the fra-
ternities, where it can serve to im-

~

prove the system by which we govern

ourselves.

 

 

Michael C. Holifield
Class of ’89

 

 

 
 

‘

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

A police officer looks for cars parked over the two-hour limit

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Junior Timothy Friedman has the
dubious distinction of having a city
ordinance written because of a case
he brought to court.

Friedman said that on Sept. 27, he
went to move his car, parked oppo-
site the Dutch Inn, before the police
officer who put a chalk mark on his
tire came back and ticketed him for
parking there longer than the two-
hour limit. He said he ‘‘happened to
see the mark on the tire’ and erased
it.

The police officer observed Fried-
man erasing the mark and charged
him with obstruction of justice.
Friedman said the officer explained
that there was no way he could do his
job if people erased the marks.

So begins the story of the common
citizen who beat the system.

But you can’t do it anymore. Fried-
man went to Lexington General
District Court on Oct. 8 and was
found guilty of the charge by Judge
Joseph E. Hess. Friedman said he
paid the $30 fine and also paid the $20
fee for filing an appeal on the advice
of his father, a lawyer in Baltimore.

On Nov. 15, Friedman, his parents,
and Lexington attorney Bernard Nat-
kin went to Rockbridge Circuit Court
to appeal his earlier conviction.

Friedman said that ‘‘they were try-
ing to get me on a felony.”’ He said he
felt the charge was ‘‘so petty it was
absolutely ridiculous.”

Friedman said that Natkin’s basic
argument was that if a chalk mark
was placed on a car, it was then part
of the car and was therefore property
of the car owner. Judge George E.
Honts III agreed and overturned the
lower court’s decision.

The story does not end there, how-
ever. The Lexington City Council last
month adopted an ordinance that
deals with the erasure of chalk
marks because, according to Mayor
Charles F. Phillips Jr., there was “‘no
ordinance that provided for the
marking of tires.”’

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

A student returns to find his car being ticketed on Lee Avenue this week

The addition to the Lexington City
Code, Section 14-88.21, states that
parking on city streets implies con-
sent that marks can be placed, with-
out damage to the auto, on an auto so
that police officers can determine the
amount of time a car has been park-
ed in one place. ‘‘Any person obliter-
ating, erasing or removing such
mark, code or device shall be guilty

Placement personnel changes continue

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

In the lastest development in the
University Center staff changes that
began last month with the resigna-
tion of recruitment coordinator
Carole Chappel, the secretary in the
dean of students’ office will replace
Chappel and Placement Consultant
Stephen P. Bredin will leave the
University at the end of this
academic year.

. The, shifts were announced. this
week by Michael A. Cappeto, assoc-
iate-dean of students and director of
placement.

After leaving the dean of students
office next week, Penny Henneman
will assume the duties of recruitment
coordinator and office manager for
career development and placement.

Patricia Fallon, who has been the
secretary at R.E. Lee Memorial Ep-
sicopal Church for the last six years,
will replace Henneman.

Cappeto said he was ‘‘delighted’’

 

NEWS BRIEFS
Late calendar delays grades

 

that Henneman,has taken, the posi-
tion, noting that “‘she has very ex-

cellent mariaégerial and *administra- °

tive skills this job will call for.”’

“I’m very pleased to be making the
move,” Henneman said. She said she
is looking forward to working with
the students and others in the depart-
ment.

Henneman said her first major
project will be working with recruit-
ers that will be on the campus in
January, February and March.

Cappeto said her position will also

 

Staff Report

 

Fall term grades, delayed by an unusually late exam
week, didn’t make it home to some anxious students
and parents until after the students had returned to
school for this term, causing some complaints.

University Registrar D. Scott Dittman said the
grades were sent out Jan. 2, after the usual period from
the end of the term, Dec. 20.

“We didn’t get any grades until the 23rd,” he said.

One part of the process that takes up time is sending
the report cards to the dean of students office for per-
sonal remarks, Dittman said.

Because of the lateness of last term’s calendar,
statistical breakdowns of the grades by class, fraternity
and sex won’t be ready until next week.

Lynchburg alumnus killed

Dr. George B. Craddock,
a 1930 alumnus and a pro-
minent Lynchburg physi-
cian for 42 years, died Dec.
11 after being struck by two
cars while crossing the
street.

Craddock, 77, was
awarded an honorary doc-
torate of science in June by
Washington and Lee. He
was also a recipient of the
W&L Distinguished Alum-
nus Award and was a mem-
ber of the alumni Board of
Directors.

: . : Police said Craddock and
GEORGE B. CRADDOCK his wife were going to a
Christmas party when he dropped her off at the door,
parked, and tried to cross the street back to the party.
Craddock was struck by a car that threw him into the
other lane, where he was hit by another car.

He was pronounced dead at the scene. No charges
have been filed.

Craddock’s two sons, George B. Craddock Jr. and
Theodore J. Craddock, also graduated from W&L.

 

EC discusses honor, funding

“There’s not much tonight,’ President John Lewis
said at the start of Monday’s Executive Committee
meeting. ‘‘We’ll get you out of here quickly.”

Before he did, though:

*The EC officially revised the Honor System guide

lines to include a provision discouraging media cover-
age of student body honor hearings. The revision to the
“White Book” initially was approved at the last
meeting ; a second vote was needed for final passage.

*The EC “unfroze”’ the funds of the Washington and
Lee Journal of Science. According to EC Vice President
Andrew Caruthers, ‘‘they haven’t spent anything.” The
Journal of Science is scheduled for publication in the
spring.

—Jason Lisi

Washington prints to be shown

Twenty-eight selected prints of George Washington
will be on exhibit in duPont Gallery from Jan. 13 to Feb.
13.

The prints on exhibit were selected from a collection
of over 700 prints of Washington given to the University
in 1984 by the Joseph Carson family of Philadelphia.

Stanley Preston Lewis, a 1985 graduate of W&L and
guest curator of the exhibit, selected the 28 prints,
which represent some of the most significant images of
the collection. Lewis wrote his senior thesis in art
history on this collection.

Dana Foundation awards grant

The Charles A. Dana Foundation has awarded Wash-
ington and Lee a $290,000 grant to support three new
junior tenure track appointments in engineering, math-
ematics and computer science.

The University has agreed to match the grant with its
own support for an experimental 10-year phased retire-
ment program to be available on an optional basis to
full-time faculty members who reach the age of 66 dur-
ing the 10-year period. Under the plan, a faculty mem-
ber who reaches age 66 could elect to teach half of a full-
time number of classes while a newly trained Ph.D.
would teach the other half under the direction of the
senior professor.

Dean of the College John W. Elrod said the new retire-
ment plan will create continuity on the faculty as senior
professors retire and new faculty members are hired.

Council approves dorm plan

The Lexington City Council on Dec. 19 approved the
University plan to build a 249-bed dormitory on West
Nelson Street. The unanimous vote clears the way for
site preparation this month. Actual construction is
scheduled to begin in April and completion is expected
in November. Plans for the dorm include 150 parking
spaces

 

include working on resume clinics for
students at some future date.

** Platefiént Consultarit’Bredin said
he came over with the understanding
he would work for three years and
that time is up.

Cappeto said “that it certainly has
nothing to do with displeasure with
him.”

“I wish he could stay ten more
years,’’ Cappeto said.

Bredin said the purpose of his job
was to ‘develop a better network
with employers.”’

of a misdemeanor...’ the code goes
on to state.

How does the cause of all this feel
about the ordinance?

“T think you should be allowed to
wipe it [a chalk mark] off,’’ Fried-
man said. But, he added, “I think it’s
good it’s a misdemeanor’”’ as opposed
to a felony, with which he had origi-
nally been charged.

 

 

 

 

PENNY HENNEMAN

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton
said that W&L students were a fairly
large part of the chalk-erasing pro-
blem. He added that such an action
seemed like it could be a potential
violation of the Honor System.

Sutton said the statute people had
been charged under prior to the coun-
cil’s new law was interfering with an
officer in the discharge of his duty.

 

 

 

 

STEPHEN BREDIN

 

What do

you think

of the food
and service

at General
Headquarters?

Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON

Photographs by
HANK MAYER

 

 

TALKBACK

 

 

Greg Turley, junior, Austin,
Texas: ‘The service is all right
—fair. Some of the food is good;
the dinner specials get a little mo-
notonous. Cheeseburgers are
good. I think they ought to
lengthen the happy hour. One
night a week? Come on! Prices
are pretty good and it’s good you
can use your point card,”’

Alston Parker, freshman, Bal-
timore: It’s sort of distressing to
go into GHQ thinking you have
enough time to make your meet
ing which starts in an hour and a
half, and having to leave before
getting to your food, because you
don’t want to be late.”’

 

Brad Stengel, senior, Darnes-
town, Md.: I’d say that the food
is normally good, especially for
the price. The service is usually
too slow or too fast, but they’ve
gotten better since they started
serving dinner.”

 

 

 

 

Walker McKay, junior, Colum-
bia, S.C.: ‘‘I just ate a cheesebur-
ger. What can you do with a
cheeseburger? I thought it was
good. I thought the service was
quick. | wasn’t there during rush
hour.”

 

 

Will McNair, sophomore, Char
lotte, N.C.: ‘‘First of all, call it
‘The Cockpit’; second of all, the
food’s mediocre; and, finally, the
service hurts.”’

 

 
 

alee «6's

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

 

 

Graduation party

 

By Steve Sadier/The Ring-tum Phi

Graduating senior Luis Sa, second from the right, and
his adviser, politics Professor William Buchanan, left,
talk with English Professor Sidney M.B. Coulling at a
going-away party for Sa held Monday in the Alumni
House. Sa will be returning to his native Brazil after
graduating in December. Public Service Librarian

Peggy Hays and Serials Librarian Heline Harrison, who
is also Brazilian, organized the party, which is traditional
for a graduating student in Brazil. The two librarians
provided the food themselves. Hays said they organized
the party because Sa had become such a fixture in the
University Library.

Coeducation may spread
to housing in Lexington

 

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

Coeducational housing — situations in which men and
women will live together in situations that are ‘‘not
necessarily romantically linked’? — may be just around
the corner for Washington and Lee.

Assistant to the President Frank A. Parsons said the
“evolution of sibling relationships”’ that he perceives in
the freshman dormitories this year likely will continue
outside campus facilities in the next few years.

“As the number of women increases, we will probably
find relationships developing where coed situations ex-
ist,”’ he explained.

Results of a survey of freshman women to determine
their preliminary housing preferences for next year will
not be available for ‘‘some time,’’ Parsons said.

The questionnaires, mailed during the Christmas holi-
day, were to be turned in to the office of the dean of
students this week. The women were asked to answer one
of two sections on the survey, depending on whether they
hope to live in University housing or off-campus housing
next year.

“We will evaluate them and make decisions about how
many sophomore accomodations the University will need
to make,”’ Parsons said. ‘‘We’ll also look into whether or
not we’ll need to make any sort of special arrangements
and just what these arrangements might be.”

Parsons added that the University will try to make it
possible for all women to live on campus, without depriv-
ing them of living where they choose. One option Parsons
noted is for the University to make Baker dormitory
available for any sophomores who choose on-campus
housing. Baker would also be available for overflow from
the other dormitories in furture freshman classes. It is
now reserved for law students.

In addition to the plans for Baker, Parsons said Davis

dorm may be changed as well. ‘We hope to undertake
modifications in Davis to eliminate the overcrowding
that we experienced this year,’’ he said.

Some rooms in Davis and Graham-Lees that previously
were single-occupancy rooms were made into doubles
this year. To alleviate the crowding problem, singles in
Davis will be made into doubles with the construction of
sleeping lofts. The built-in furniture in those rooms made
that impossible this year.

According to H. Robert Huntley, dean of freshmen, the
new dormitory will be built across the street from War-
ner Center will probably be open by fall of 1987. The dorm
will hold about 250 students and will be divided into suites
of two, four, and six students. Construction is scheduled
to begin in April.

Though women have the option of choosing to live in
off-campus housing, Parsons said he felt that women
students were ‘‘not eager to live in the country.”

Freshman Erin Cosby echoed that sentiment, saying
that “‘it’s a pain to drive and find parking, and I like to
roll out of bed and go to class.’’ Cosby and her roommate,
Anna Hampton, have already been to a real estate agent
to find information about housing in Lexington.

“‘We told him we wanted something nearby campus,
for three or four people, and furnished. He was hesitant to
rent to underclassmen,”’ said Cosby. ‘‘I don’t think any of
the girls realize how hard it’s going to be to find furnished
places.”’

The Woods Creek apartments will remain available for
housing and offer space for 178 students. Another option
that may be open to women in the near future is sorority
houses.

Elizabeth Cummins, a freshman, and four other
women students have drafted a questionnaire to distri-
bute to the freshman women to find out what their feel-
ings about sororities are. Cummins said that after con-
ducting the survey, she hopes to work toward establish-
ing a Greek system for W&L women.

Local color

History professor’s guests hear tales of the past

 

By JOHN CUMMINGS
Special to The Phi

 

‘‘T wasn’t sure what to make of him
at first, until I got to know him,”’ said
Dubois Thompson, a Washington and
Lee sophomore and frequent dinner
guest of Dr. Charles W. Turner, pro-
fessor emeritus of history.

“T used to think he was a little ec-
centric, but I don’t think so anymore;
he’s very sincere, dedicated and
helping to the students at W&L.”’

“Why teach history? Well, maybe
it’s because I couldn’t do anything
else,’ Turner joked. ‘But I’ve
always enjoyed telling stories and
trying to tell them as accurately as I
can.”

Turner, so far, has written 18 books
and some 50 articles in his field,
focusing mainly on Virginia history,
many having to do with W&L in par-
ticular. ‘I’ve got one in the oven now
about the Liberty Hall Volunteers,
Capt. John Newton Lyle in particu-
lar, but I’m slow as molasses in the
wintertime.”

Those who don’t know him well
may still call Turner ‘‘eccentric,”
but his charming sense of humor and
taste for a good bourbon set him in
the category of a real-life Virginia
gentleman.

Born and bred in the small town of
Fredericks Hall in Louisa County,
Turner attended public schools and
gained entrance to the University ot
Richmond. There he earned a bache-
lor’s degree in history in 1937 and

won the J. Taylor Ellison Medal for
his research on Virginia railroads.

After teaching history in the local
schools in Louisa County during the
depression, Turner earned his mas-
ter’s at the University of North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill with concentration
on Virginia railroads.

With a meager $250 in his pocket,
Turner set out to the University of
Minnesota in 1943 to earn his doc-
torate. He spent half the money in
travel expenses by bringing an aunt
along with him.

While studying there, he got jobs
teaching military history to young
enlistees, peeling potatoes and wash-
ing dishes in a local co-op to make
ends meet. After he finished his
thesis, again on railroads in Virginia,
in 1946, a job opened at W&L teaching
history, and Turner was glad to
return to his home state. He’s been
here ever since, teaching everything
from Middle East history to Latin
American and American history.

Turner recalls from early in his
W&L career frequently eating at the
table of Miss Lizzy Graham, who liv-
ed on Letcher Avenue and often in-
vited the bachelor professors to be
her guests.

“The food was excellent,”’ Turner
remembered, ‘‘but she herself didn’t
cook, of course; she had a chef and
servants.”

Turner’s frequent dinner guests,
however, will remember that he him-
self cooked them excellent meals.
Many of them are students from the
W&L chapter of Lambda Chi Alpha,

which initiated him into the brother-
hood in 1947 for the purpose of ap-
pointing him their adviser.

“Oh, I was too poor to be a fraterni-
ty brother in college,’’ he said. He
served the chapter diligently for 36
years under the fitting nickname
“High Pi,” and “had lots of good
times at the house,’ as he put it.

“TI remember when he used to
come out and talk to everyone at the
house,”’ recalled W&L senior Dabney
Overton.

‘*He’d sit down in the wingback and
twist a rubber band while he talked.
He always had something on his
mind —a sharp mind, always willing
to teach, even outside the class-
room.”’

Turner has not remained stagnant
in this community, though: travel
has been one of his favorite pastimes.

But this hobby is a means of study
in itself for the conscientiousness and
up-to-date history buff. His extensive
travels throughout Europe and the
Americas with students and friends,
as well as his frequent research on
the latest historical developments,
have kept Turner busy during school
breaks.

Turner has been in retirement for
the past three years but is working
for W&L on a library of oral historv.

Junior Charles Nusbaum works
with Turner on this project. “Dr.
Turner’s insight into the usefulness
of oral history from the W&L commu-
nity and Rockbridge County will tell
the story of our times to people 50
years hence.”’

 

Ariel

Continued from Page 1

 

funds until they can tell us what hap-
pened,” sophomore representative
Pat Schaeffer said.

“We will discuss the Ariel thing
when we have the people in front of
us,’’ Lewis concluded.

Strickland said the purpose of
meeting with the EC next week was
to discuss the financial condition of
the Ariel. However, Caruthers, who
administers student body funds, said
the Ariel was not scheduled to make
a budget report.

Brown, the librarian, said she was
very upset when she. learned of the
damage to the Scavullo book. ‘‘I was
sick about it,’’ she’ said. ‘I was
disturbed that it would happen.”’

“T have not ever seen a situation
like this before,’ she added. ‘‘It’s
more common to have mutilation in
journals or periodicals.”

The editor said he was to have a
meeting with Brown yesterday,
although she said he did not have an
appointment scheduled. ‘‘She’s going
to be pretty p---ed,”’ Strickland noted.

He said it was not possible to give
the pictures to his printer without
removing them. “I could not have
given them the book,’’ Strickland
stated. “I would have to remove
them.”

Although Strickland said he had
received telephone permission from
Scavullo’s studio to reprint the pic-
tures, there was no acknowledgment
of the consent or photo credit on the
two pages. “I thought it would be
pretty self-explanatory,’ he said.

Burke, a freshman from Yardley,
Penn., said she earlier had “‘tried to

4

 

 

sell the interview to a major
magazine but they turned down my
offer.” She then submitted it to the
Ariel, which published it as the lead
article in its Winter 1985 issue.

Burke said she ‘took a lot of the
questions that I used from an inter-
view that a colleague of mine on [a
high school literary magazine] used
for his interview with Hal Prince, the
big director.’’ She said those ques-
tions gave her ideas for other ques-
tions.

The article is preceded by a 16-line

introduction in italics that Burke said
Strickland took directly trom a
media handout.

“To tell you the truth...the in-
troduction...is a direct quote from a
press release,’’ she said. ‘‘Bob took
care of that.... I said...to introduce
the interview, do whatever you
want.”

“He said, ‘Well, I really like this
press release; there’s nothing wrong
with this. Let me just put the press
release in, which is good, because it
Says the right thing; it’s terrific.’
And you don’t have to footnote press
releases. As far as I know.”

Burke said she resented having her
article scrutinized. ‘I’m angry and
my pride is hurt,” she said. “I don’t
have to copy.”

The University Publications
Board, composed of the editors and
business managers of four under-
graduate publications, has scheduled
a special meeting for Sunday night to
discuss the incident.

“Something like this obviously is
embarrassing for the ‘Pub Board,’ ”
said senior Mike Allen, president of
the board. ‘Any time there’s a possi-
ble misrepresentation in one of our
publications, it’s a serious matter.”

GENERAL

DH®

3
24pguartT®™

G7

 

 

 

 

+

 

Live Entertainment
This Week

 

Chinese and
American Cuisine

   

The Finishing Touch
Located in the U.S. Post

  

A Exotic Cocktails ’ ot ;

LOHKA WOK Carry-out Service Office Building, Lexington Thursday - Phil Hodges - Tape Show

409 South Main St., et oe vats 24450 Available Frida . Band . "Th t Q 9 ofThe” .
ey Open Tuesday through Sunday 463-1622 : suaee : ee

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

Saturday - Band - “Charisma” - 9 P.M.-1 A.M.

q ys

Typing and Word
Processing Services

 

 

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

| oe
eorge’s Hairstylis

since 1963

 

Luncheon Special 11-3 a
Experience Really Is The Best Teacher’’

 

10’ Minipizza w/1 topping

 

   

Redken Nexus
Walk in or phone for appointment

Mon.-Fri, 463-39

   

The W&L
Snack Bar

   

10’ Minipizza w/3 toppings

 

  

plus
Free Drink

 
  

Valley True Value Hardware

 

"na be Every night a different
*-- Special throughout
January

463-7575 or 463-3133

$1 OF F

HARDOW.

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Sunday-Thursday 8 p.m. to 11 p.m.

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Large Pizza

SPO PT LENS Re PS SRS AE PET A APY NY OP TEE PT AE Se SG

Mon, - Sat. 8:30-6:68
Sun.1-5

a ae Be? ae aS

 

 

 

 
 

*

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Offices may change hands
with C-School faculty shift

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

Accommodating certain personnel changes in the Com-
merce School faculty next year may make some office
shifting necessary, according to Edward C. Atwood Jr.,
dean of the C-School.

Atwood said yesterday that up to four additional offices
will be needed next year and that presently there is no
empty office space in the building. :

The offices will be for the new faculty members and for
Atwood, who is stepping down from his position as
dean of the C-School

not be the case.

ed at this point.

Although Atwood’s replacement as dean has not been
chosen, if he comes from the W&L faculty, his office
would open up for one of the new faculty members. If the
replacement is from outside the University, this would

There are several options under considerafion to open
up office space, Atwood said, but nothing has been decid-

Among those options are making the first floor offices
of University Proctor Charles F. Murray and Dean of
Students Lewis G. John into offices for the new teachers.
John also has an office in Payne Hall, and, Atwood said,

has been told about the space problems.

The new faculty members will be:

e An East Asian economist, who will come to
Washington and Lee through a grant from the Mellon
foundation.

« A part-time political science professor to teach some
of the classes now taught by Professor William
Buchanan, who will begin an early retirement program
of half-time teaching next year through a grant from the
Dana Foundation.

¢ An economist to teach Atwood’s course’s while he is

on leave next year. Atwood said.

Another consideration is to change some small study
rooms into offices, as well as a room used by W&L
students involved in a business case-study competition
run by Emory University in Atlanta.

Atwood said there are no plans to convert classrooms
into offices, and said he was surprised to learn there was
discussion on campus about C-School office space. :

“I thought I was the only one who had thought of that,’

Mollenhoff returns from England

essary cost overruns and illegal bil-

 

By SAMUEL FOLEY ling practices such as the ones that

Staff Reporter were alleged against General Dyna-
mics, Mollenhoff said.

The Boomer is back “The Prime Minister and the rul-

Journalism Professor Clark R.
Mollenhoff has returned to Lexington
after spending the fall term in
Europe doing research for a new
book. Mollenhoff is preparing a book
that will compare and contrast in-
vestigative reporting in the United
States and England.

He spent most of his time talking to
reporters, editors and members of
the British government to determine
how investigations are carried out in
England and how they differ from
those conducted in the United States.

The main difference he came
across is the British Official Secrets
Act. That law allows Parliament to
withhold all information on govern-
ment spending and punish those who
illegally release such information.

By threatening to punish such
“whistleblowers,” the British gov-
ernment has made it extremely diffi-
cult for reporters to uncover unnec-

ing party control and dominate the
Parliamentary committees in a man-
ner that virtually eliminates the
possibility of any deep objective in-
vestigation of executive department
spending, operations or decisions,”
Mollenhoff explained. ‘“They don’t
have -the independent investigation
bodies to investigate these cases.”’

He adds that even if a reporter
were able to get all the information
on a scandal, he may not be able to
print the story because the press in
England does not have the kind of
protection that is given to the Ameri-
can press under the First Amend-
ment.

Mollenhoff said, though, that even
with those drawbacks, England —
after the United States — has the
most open press system in the world.

After more than three months

‘abroad, Mollenhoff, a former Pulit-
zer Prize-winning investigative re-

Two fraternities report

lar forced entry and burglary. The
110 W. Preston St. residence was
entered between Dec. 20 and Jan. 4,
and an estimated $400 in property
was removed and minor damage was
caused to a number of separate
rooms. Russel Shearer, Blair Severe,
and Brandt Surgner all told police
that their rooms had been ransacked.
Damage was placed at $30 for two
kicked-in doors and at approximately
$20 worth of stolen property.

 

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

The Lexington Police Department
reported break-ins at two fraternity
houses over the Christmas holiday.

Lambda Chi Alpha President Tom
Hurlbut told police that a locked win-
dow on the east side of his fraternity
house at 225 E. Nelson St. had been
broken and that a $200 stereo recei-
ver was removed from the premises
sometime between Jan. 1 and Jan. 5.

Sigma Phi Epsilon reported a simi-

An official report is pending on pro-
perty stolen from the rooms of Rick
Robins, Neil Rankin and David At-
kinson. Police estimate that at least

117 West Nelson Street Lexington, Virginia

Entire Stock of Sheet Music
Entire Stock of Song Books
Off-Chart Singles

 

Tee

WILLSON-
WALKER f} |
HOUSE

Restaurant}

 

 

 

 

 

 

=

A CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH

Sundays
12:00-2:30

 

 

 

 

 

Open Tuesday through Saturday
Lunch 11:30-2:30, Dinner 5:30-9:00
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday.

30 N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

 

 

 

 

CLARK MOLLENHOFF

porter with The Des Moines Register,
is glad to be home. ‘Oxford is
beautiful but Lexington is a great
place to come back to,”’ he said.

burglaries

another $385 worth of property was
taken from their rooms.

Chief of Police L.O. Sutton said
both fraternities were well secured,
but that discouraging burglaries over
extended periods such as the holi-
days is difficult. There are no sus-
pects in either of the break-ins,a fact
Sutton attributes to ‘‘stale evidence.”

In a separate incident, an officer
patrolling Lee Avenue reported that
a parking sign was vandalized some-
time around 10a.m. Saturday, Jan. 4,
in an area near the W&L campus.
Damage has been placed at $30.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986, Page 5

 

The Ring-tum Phi is starting a
Classifieds section as a service to
its readers. Notices from non-pro-
fit organizations will be run free of
charge, in the style of the old
“General Notes,’’ under the head-
ing ““Announcements.”’ Classified
ads can be taken out under the
headings ‘‘Merchandise,”’ ‘‘Hous-
ing,”’ “Employment,” and ‘‘Per-
sonals."’ The deadline is Tuesday

at 5 p.m. for that Thursday’s
paper.
Announcements

Washington and Lee’s Army
ROTC Department is offering
two- and three- year scholarships.
All freshmen and sophomores,
whether they are presently enroll-
ed in ROTC or not, are eligible to
compete. Application deadline is
Feb. 1. For more information con-

tact Major Mike Cullen at
463-8480
The Washington and Lee

University ROTC Rangers are
sponsoring a Taco Party tomor-
row at 3:30 in the Military Science
Building. All cadets and any
freshmen or sophomores are in-
vited to attend.

First Union National Bank of
Charlotte, N.C., invites all in-
terested seniors to a cocktail par-
ty next Thursday at 7 p.m. in the
Alumni House.

Due to construction of the new
dormitory on the old Coke plant
site, freshmen are requested to
move their cars to a new parking
lot, located just under the foot-
bridge across Route 60. Faculty,
dorm counselors and commuting
students should park in the former
freshman lot, located across from
the Coke plant. Freshmen will be
ticketed starting Monday, Jan. 13,
if they remain in their old lot.

University Proctor Charles F.
““Murph”’ Murray says the student
who called about a stolen bicycle
may retrieve it at the police sta-
tion.

 

CLASSIFIEDS

The Student Activities Board,
Calyx '85 and Contact have
reports due to the Executive Com-
mittee at its Monday night meet-
ing at7 p.m.

Students wishing to apply to be
dormitory counselors for next
year should pick up an application
form from Mrs. Henneman in the
Dean of Student’s Office, com-
plete it, and return it to her by
noon, Wednesday, Jan. 15.

Auditions for “‘Lysistrata’’ by
Aristophanes, the University
Theatre’s winter production, will
be held Jan. 9 and 10 at 7 p.m. in
the theater on the corner of Main
and Henry streets. “Lysistrata,”
the best known of the classic
Greek comedies, concerns the ef-
forts of Greek wives to stop the
war between Athens and Sparta
by “going on strike.’’ There are
parts for 12 women and 12 men,
and the script, which will be based
on the Douglas Parker transla-
tions, is available at the theater
office. Call 463-8637 for informa-
tion.

Concerts

Junior Robert Vienneau will
present a piano recital at 8 p.m. in
Lee Chapel Tuesday, Jan. 21.
Works by Back, Chopin, Liszt and
DeBussy will be featured.

The Concert Guild will present
the Annapolis Brass Quintet,
featuring a variety of Renais-
sance and modern works, at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel, Tuesday, Jan.
14. The public is invited, and
students are admitted free.

Meetings

WLUR-F is holding its organi-
zational meeting for this term
tonight at 7:30 in Reid Hall, Room
203. All air shifts are available,
and any student may apply. No
experience is necessary.

There will be an organizational
meeting for the W&L Journal of
Science next Thrusday in Room
301, Parmly Hall, at 7 p.m. All
those interested in writing or con-
tributing their efforts are en-
couraged to attend. For more in-
formation, see Guy Caldwell, J.P.
Bouffard or Craig Monroe.

There will be a MANDATORY
meeting for all chairmen of the
MDA Superdance Steering Com-
mittee tonight at 7 p.m. in the con-
ference room of the Student Cen-
ter.

Also, there will be a general
meeting for all members of the
steering committee on Tuesday,
Jan. 14, at 7 p.m. in the Con-
ference Room.

Remember, the Main Event is
only 15 days away!

Movie

Stanley Kubrick’s ‘2001: A
Space Odyssey” will be shown
Wednesday through Saturday,
Jan. 15-18, in Room 203 of Reid
Hall at 7 p.m., sponsored by the
Politics film festival.

 

 

 

 

 

   

  
  
         

 

Visa

 

 

115 S. Main Street

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

463-2742

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Geta
60-minute
KIS.

 

THOMAS C. BRADSHAW II
Photographist - Frame Shop - Kis Mini Lab
7 North Main Street
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

No more waiting days for your prints to come.

Kis Photo gives you picture-perfect prints in

just 60 minutes. Extra prints and enlargements take
just minutes. We use Kodak paper exclusively.
What's more, we do if all in our store with the
revolutionary new Kis ]-Hour Photo Processor

In only 60 minutes, it turns your 110, 126, 135

and disc film into memories that last a lifetime.

1-HOUR
PHOTO

Ke

KOdak § a registered trademark of the Enctman Kadak Comnany

 

 

Aluin-Bennts

Fine Men’s Apparel
Lexington, Virginia

Winter Clearance Saie
Now In Progress

Ceramic Items For Sale
MasterCard

Choice

 

  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Winter
Clearance Sale
In Progress

Shoes, Clothin-
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

Free Gift Wrapping

 

 

Siudent Charge

  

 

Attention Patrons

Lloyd’s of Lexington!

Now Delivers

Until Midnight,
Within 1 mile radius,
only 50° with *6.00 minimum
Guaranteed

Fresh and Hot.

Call 463-5592

 
 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

Cagers ‘sluggish’
in Cortland victory

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

In its first game since Dec. 11, the
Washington and = Lee basketball
squad raised its record to 4-3 going
into this weekend’s four-team W&L

Invitational Tournament with an
82-75 win over Cortland State Tues-
day night.

The win was not one of the team’s
better efforts, according to Generals’
head coach Verne Canfield, and the
effects of the layoff showed as they
were forced to go the distance with
an 0-8 Cortland State team.

The win was sealed when, with just
over two minutes remaining, soph-
omore guard Steve Hancock was
fouled. The call prompted a shout of
disbelief from Cortland State’s David
Goodridge, who was given a techni-
cal foul for the outburst. The second
call prompted a cry of protest from
Red Dragon head coach Bill Wil-
liams, who was then whistled for a
two-shot technical.

After everything was sorted out,
W&L went to the line for five consec-
utive free throws. Hancock made
both ends of his one-and-one, and Rob
Spencer hit two out of the three shots
for the technical fouls to put Carlton
down 74-64, a lead W&L never relin-
quished.

Yet, the only reason Cortland was

in a position to win that late in the
game was because W&L didn’t play
the tough inside defense that is their
trademark. The Red Dragons stayed
with the Generals for most of the first
half, and even led by as many as four
points on several occasions, on the
strength of their inside game. They
shot 75 percent from under the basket
during the first half, compared with
20 percent from the perimeter. ‘I’m
not at all pleased with the way we
played tonight,”’ said Canfield, ‘‘Es-
pecially on defense.’’

But Canfield had to be pleased with
his team’s clutch free throw shoot-
ing. It was because of this success, as
well as Cortland State’s poor perfor-
mance in the same area, that the
Generals were able to take a five-
point lead, 38-33, into the locker
room. Over the last six minutes of the
half, the Generals were a perfect 7-7
From the line, including Jefferson
Harralson’s 4-4 shooting, while the
Red Dragons were 4-9, including an
0-4 collar from their leading scorer,
Goodridge. This streak helped turn a
four-point deficit into the lead the
Generals held at halftime.

After the intermission, W&L ex-
tended its lead to a nine by outscoring
Cortland 8-2 over the first two min-
utes. They could not, however, put
their scrappy opponent away. Much

C See Hoops, Page 7

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Harmon Harden tosses in a jump hook against Cortland State

some holiday

Swimmers ring in new year with 60 miles of hard work

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

To those of us who can look back on
our winter break and cite opening a
bag of Doritos or turning on the TV
as our inajor form of exertion, the
program of the swim team might
seem a bit frightening.

Undoubtedly many of the swim-
mers themselves viewed with ap-
prehension the prospect of swimming
close to 60 miles in one week.
Regardless of the sacrifices, though,
the team as a whole appeared to
understand the necessity of the train-
ing and the resulting payoff that is
expected to come at the end of the
year.

Head coach Page Remillard com-
mented on the team’s performance
during the training period. ‘‘They
just went out and did what they had
to do because they knew what they
had to do,”’ he said. They have a clear

    
 
 
 
       
   
 
    
    
 
   

‘22 W. Nelson St.,
Lexington, Va.

 
    
    
    

       

17 S. Main St.

Storewide Clearance Sale

1/2 Off All Fall

And Winter Merchandise

463-9340

i 15% off all Valentine
! Merchandisejexcept candy)
with this coupon
|

B

Expires 1-31-86
|e Ee Be Se aN RN SNe GN OR RR A a SS SS SS es a UY al AY a

understanding of investment

returns.”

The swimmers were back at school
on Dec. 29, after a week on their own.
Training consisted of a 45-minute
weight workout at 8 a.m. At 9 a.m.,
the swimmers were in the water for
two hours. This was followed by time
to eat and sleep and then at half past
three it was back into the water until
6p.m.

“Of ten years of college coaching,
this break was the most enjoyable
and effective. Traditionally it is not
as enjoyable as it is effective,”
Remillard said of the team’s train-
ing.

Variations in the team’s training
included what is called ‘‘one hundred
hundreds,’’ which consist of swimm-
ing 10,000 yards in two-and-one-half
hours. This took place on the last day
of 1985 and as Remillard put it, “It ig
the kind of thing you only do once a
year.”

  

M.C.-Visa
American Express

    

(763) 463-2323

‘Wanna
Wanna Rock?

The team spent New Year’s Eve in
Georgetown ringing in the new year
with a much needed mental and
physical break from training. There
was little time for rest, though, as it
was back to the pool the next day for
9,000 more yards of swimming.

While the work was gruelling,
members of both the men’s and
women’s team cited the conditioning
and the increased team unity as big
benefits.

Sophomore Darrin Denny com-
mented on the week: ‘We got in a lot
of work and we got into it really
quick. I thought everyone’ attitude
was great and nobody was complain-
ing.”

Freshman Jeff Bercaw pointed out
that while the team’s constantly be-
ing together was at times a bit dif-
ficult, the week as a whole “really
brought the team closer.’’

For the next several weeks, inten-

The MDA Superdance and WLUR-FM combine to bring you
W&L’s Biggest Party Jan. 24-26. While the dancers are danc-
ing, listen to WLUR-FM for a 30-hour All Rock-quest Week-
end. Help MD out by making a donation every you make a
song request. 91.5 FM Lexington’s Listening Alternative.

 

sive training will continue to be the
team’s focus. Swimmers find relief in
the fact that, after the upcoming
weeks, they will begin to taper down
the quantity of training as they get in-
to competition.

For the time being, team mem-
bers, as Elizabeth Miles pointed out,
can look to new classes and returning
friends as a bit of mental relief from
the past week of training.

The-team.can feel some satisfac-
tion as some of its number have
made their way into the current divi-
sion rankings. Senior co-captain Tim
Stanford, in both the 100-yard and
200-yard butterfly, freshman Moose
Herring, in the 1,650-yard freestyle,
and freshman Elizabeth Miles in the
500-yard freestyle, all are ranked in
first place. Miles was also in the top
ten in two other events and both of
the men’s relay teams were in the top

  
  
 

  

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

~Sat., 10-5

 

 

 

 

eee

 

A Year of Comparative Study
and World Travel

Film, Television and Social Change:
Cambridge, London, Rome, New Delhi, Poona, Bombay,
Chiangmai, Tokyo, Beijing, Shanghai, Hongkong, Los Angeles

Film and Politics:
London, Berlin, Paris, Rome, Rio, Buenos Aires,
Lima, Mexico City.

September 1986 — May 1987

Faculty from Harvard, Columbia, New York University,
University of California and Indiana University

Stanley Cavell, Robert Gardner, Wm. Rothman,
Charles Warren, Cristina Szanton, Katherine Morgan,
Victor Wallis, Robert Stamm, Eric Rentschler

Two academic programs limited to thirty students each

For further information
call Joan Tiffany collect: 617-267-8612
The International Honors Program
19 Braddock Park
Boston, MA 02116

 

 

I'd cry ‘Foul!’

 

 

... If you still think there
is some sanctity left in col-
TIME lege athletics, think again.
Somewhere between ex-
OU E ices am week and Christmas,
Se Hampden-Sydney put a
By Mike severe gash in that holier-
Stachura than-thou image that sur-
rounds Division III
athletics.

When the gentlemen’s finishing school in Farmville decid-
ed to relieve head basketball coach Don Thompson as a result of (get
this! players’ complaints, that little voice in my head — the same one
that tells me George Steinbrenner ought to be reassigned to another
galaxy — begins yammering things like ‘‘Whose team is it anyway?”’
and ‘‘Since whens does a university president get to step in and decide
how a basketball program is to handle its in-house problems?”

Before we go any further, here are the pertinent facts: Hampden-
Sydney, preseason favorites in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference,
went 1-6 to start its 1985-86 season. Then, as reported in The Richmond.
Times-Dispatch on December 18, a couple of senior captains were
disgruntled with Thompson’s handling of his coaching duties
(including his selection of starters and who would receive the most
playing time), which led to what president of the college Josiah Bun-
ting III told the Times-Dispatch was ‘‘a total breakdown of com-
munication. : The two captains were then dismissed by Thompson for
taking the team’s problems to outsiders, according to the Times-
Dispatch article. Following their dismissal, a petition calling for
Thompson’s removal was circulated among the team and then
presented to Bunting. Eight players signed the petition, five, including
at least three starters, did not. Two days later, Thompson, who had
been head coach of the Tigers for the last 12 seasons, was relieved of
his coaching duties at the college.

Bunting was unavailable for comment, but assistant to the president
David Cantlay told me that Bunting ‘did what he did in the best in-
terests of the school.’’ Cantlay said that Bunting’s decision had
nothing to do with the team’s record’ but that the president ‘had lost
faith in the coach’s ability to lead his players.”

I submit that Bunting’s loss of ‘‘faith’”’ was good, old-fashioned over-
reaction and that overreaction may have damaged permanently a
man’s career. He certainly severely tainted Thompson’s attitude
toward Division III basketball. The ex-coach told me that he would be
“very selective” if another Division III coaching job were to come up,
that in Division III can come to have too large a role in the running of a
particular athletic program.

The problem here is that Bunting was out-of-line, out of his jurisdic-
tion. Said Thompson, ‘‘I don’t know that there is a team in the country
that doesn’t have some in-house problems. I have had very few
problem-free years. ... I have never been able not to work out a pro-
blem within the squad.”

Thompson also said that this year’s problems ‘certainly could have
been worked out,”’ but that he did not feel bitter about Bunting’s deci-
sion.

“It’s just a bizarre and unfortunate thing,”’ he said.

Bizarre and unfortunate, indeed. How about just plain ‘‘wrong’’?
Imagine your economics professor deciding after the first test, on
which you received a 56 percent, that there was no way you could pass
the course and therefore you needn’t worry about attempting to pass
the course, you would just be given an F for the term. I know I’d cry
“Foul! ”

But assistant to the president Cantlay explained that the problem
had been “festering.’’ Hardly. Thompson had been at Hampden-
Sydney for 12 years, compiling a 155-125 record. He was established. If
the problem had been festering, I’m wondering why he was fired at
mid-season (why not before the season started?) and why he was fired
less than 48 hours after the disgruntled players came to the president.
Perish the thought, but it seems to me that President Bunting’s deci-
sion may have been a mite rash.

But that’s just it. In Division III, the institution is smaller, and
therefore the non-athletic administration can perceive itself as
playing a bigger role. Now, I’m all for an objective, watchful eye in the
administrateion, but notice those words were “‘objective” and ‘‘watch-
ful” and not “‘intrusive’’ and “‘interfering’.’’ Bunting turned an in-
house squabble into a volatile situation, and I don’t see how anyone
can construe such a move as a resolution to a problem.

What should he have done? I don’t think laughter would have been
out of line. No, really. Bunting should have simply patted the two com-
plainers on the head and said, ‘“‘Boys [he was being generous,
“children” would have served equally well], I think this is a matter for
you and Coach Thompson and the athletic director to talk over.” I
thought that was the purpose of delegating authority, so those closest
to the situation can give you informed opinions during a crisis.

Even if there were a great breakdown in communication, Bunting’s
role should have been one of restitution, a mediator providing a means
for the two sides to get together. If eight players sign the petition,
there must be some problem; if five players do not sign the petition, it
seems the differences could be resolved. Certainly, I see no reason to
believe the problem to be so great as to necessitate the firing of the
head coach. In other words, campers, Bunting should have pulled a
Joan Rivers ... “‘Can we talk?”

Unfortunately, it appears that to Bunting, talk is cheap, as in worth-
less. The Times-Dispatch quotes one of the players who did not sign
the petition as saying that Bunting did not talk to any of those who did
not sign the petition. Bunting said he did talk to one player, but refused
to name him.

All in all, the decision was at best ill-conceived. A conference or
some other means of discussion may have been in order, but not a fir-
ing. W&L head basketball coach Verne Canfield called the situation “‘a
travesty” and ‘“‘a gross misjustice.’’ Strong words, perhaps, but not
unfair, which is more than can be said for Bunting’s decision....

 

by John V. Lowe

<

 

x \ s - } : 7

~~ —_

Short Break for

the wener a\ S

 

 

 
we

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986, Page 7

 

 

Mark Robertson grimaces under hold from Kévin McNamara during practice

Grapplers try to gei the kinks out

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

After a three-week holiday layoff,
the W&L wrestling team returns to
action on Saturday when it travels to
Baltimore for the Johns Hopkins
Quadrangular.

Although the wrestlers had the op-
tion of competing individually in last
weekend’s Maryland Open, few
chose to compete and head coach
Gary Franke sees his first duty this
week as getting his grapplers into
shape.

“We're trying to get them back to
where they were before Christmas
physically. We’ve got a way to go,”
Franke said.

In reference to Saturday’s quad,
however, Franke, while admitting
“It [the layoff] is a setback,’”’ asserts
“Everybody is in the same
boat, so the break shouldn't be a fac-
i”

The Hopkins Quad will only be the
Generals’ third competition of the
season. In December, W&L had only
one dual meet, a 35-13 win over
Newport News Apprentice, coupled
with a second-place finish in the
eight-team W&L Invitational before
the break for exams. On Saturday,

the grapplers will compete in three
dual meets.

The meet will be the first away con-
test as a team for the wrestlers and
comprises half of their regular sea-
son road trips. The Generals’ next six
dates are in the friendly confines of
the Warner Center before closing out
the regular season with a trip to Pen-
nsylvania and a match with Washing-
ton and Jefferson.

Senior co-captain Brian Lifsted

S€EMS Even invie confident than his

mentor in his appraisal of the
Generals at this point in the season
Lifsted said he did a good deal] of run
ning over break, and said, ‘‘Most
guys worked out at their old high
schools in their respective home-
towns.”’

As far as this weekend goes,
Lifsted is bursting with confidence:
‘“‘We should come out with a really
good shot at winning all three match

Lexington Prescription Center
11 West Washington Street
463-9166

Welcomes Your Business

We accept charge accounts to your parents.
We will make special orders to get your brand.
Come in and get all your merchandise.

1) Prescriptions 4) Contact lens care products

2) Hair care products
3) Dental needs

 

5) Shaving products
6) Better colognes and after
shave lotion

 

 

Hoops

C Continued from Page 6

to their credit, the Red Dragons
never gave up, and they were always
in the game until their frustration
manifested itself in the technical
fouls and sealed their eighth defeat in
as many tries.

 

After the game, Canfield made no
attempt to conceal his displeasure
with his team’s performance. “We
played sluggish and uninspired. I
want to find five guys who will play

inspired basketball.” When asked if
this meant that there will be changes
in the lineup, Canfield replied, ‘“You
can count on it”

Canfield also had this to say to the
fans: “Please don’t hold this game
against us. Your support has been ex-
cellent and we appreciate it.’’ He
continued, ‘Give us another chance
and please stick with us for the rest of
the term.”

The next game for the Generals
will be Friday against Thomas Col-
lege in the opening round of the W&L
Invitational. In the other game,
Haverford College will play Nazareth

College with the winners advancing
to the finals on Saturday. Asked
about his team’s chances in that tour-
nament Canfield said, “If we don’t
play better than we played tonight,
we'll get our butts kicked!”

AROUND THE RIM: ...Goodridge
led both teams with 23 points; Har-
ralson was second with 20 ... Har-
ralson shot only 3 for 11 from the field
but 14 for 17 from the free throw line.
He was also in double figures for re-
bounds ... Freshman Lee Brading
scored a career-high 16 from his for-
ward position ... Friday’s tourna-
ment game will be carried live on
WLUR-FM (91.5).

   

Word Processing

The Computer Center will be offering classes in WordStar
and Word Perfect during January. We invite all
undergraduate students to attend.

Sue Ruley will be teaching two beginning WordStar classes
for Kaypro word processor users on Tuesday, January 14,
and Wednesday, January 22, at 7:30 p.m. in Newcomb Hall,
Room N-36B. Each class will cover formatting diskettes,
backup, and basic WordStar commands.

Two Word Perfect classes will be taught on Thursday,

 

January 16 and Tuesday, January 28, at 7:30 p.m. in Reid
Hall 3rd floor News Room for IBM/PC users. Each class
will cover formatting diskettes, backup, and elementary
word processing functions.

  

Phi Classifieds Bring Results!

Ll Lf tata

 

pe gm mgm fm fon fmm i fp fn fn i ri iol iii i ho ML Lil ial nlp ad ii ire fen fen rf fri ih ffi)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ We expect a large response to the above listed classes, so
d .
CAMPUS 23 S. Main please sign-up as soon as possible with Joanna Meade in the
ADVERTISING REP Lexington, Va. 24450 Computer Center, X8842, Tucker Hall, from 8:30-4:30,
7 enters vo ? p Lexington Hardware Monday-Friday.
ae ane tore 29 N. Main St. __ 463-2242 We look forward to offering advanced classes in the future
__ | Work on exciting a ting programs for Old Main Street Mall S th for those of you who are experienced users of the microcom-
|__| dense as Antena ATT Lexington, Virginia outnern puters,
‘ ny and-Sierra Club. Choose your own é
800-426-8537 9. ccessories Sale Welcome
‘ 1-800-426-5537 9-5 pm.
(West Coast time) In Progress. Students
; Representative Program Cla rion 6700 Ca r Serving breakfast, lunch a too
7 see Stereo w/Dolby, and dinner for over tee
Seattle, WA 98119 Reg : $21 9.95 50 years ae aaa just fc one
' es ata $0995 Main Street, Lexington
a... 463-3612

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

}. A Saab 900s turbo, black exterior,
burgundy leather interior, sunroof,
performance package

 

           
          
    

  

°
i . i o 2. A penthouse apartment, fully
{ sind sities Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out) ee
Lexington Gourmet Items of All Nations : :
° e ‘ on limit a t at AlVvin-
Cocktails® Wine® Beer A gg aaaiasat
Hours:
. Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam Subs@Imported Cheeses 4. An IBM PC, 256k, two disk drives,
Sunday 10am to lam monitor/printer adapter, Monochrome
monitor
oO

love, Skippy

 

 

 

 

By now you should know how to get exactly what you want. Honesty is not always
the best policy. That is, sometimes parents need a little deception to show them the truth.
The truth is that you need an IBM PC. Whether
its a word processor for a thesis or a direct link
into a mainframe, now is the time to buy.
Prices are low and the Christmas spirit of giving
is everywhere, especially at home.

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

 

Men’s Clearance

IBM set the industries standards when they
began production of the PC and it is still the
leading personal computer. No other MS DOS
machine maintains such an extensive software
base and such a reputation for reliability. So if
you demand the best, now is not the time to
compromise. Stick with the BUREAU. IBM.

¢ Group of Winter Suits. 1/2 Price
¢ Group of Sport Coats... 20% Off
¢ Selected Outerwear 1/2 Price

.... And while you've got them in the palm
of your hand, why not go ahead and ask for
+... everything you really want. After all once
you've got the computer you need hard
copies of your data. Knowing you want the
best we suggest the EPSON” FX-85. Epson
is to printers what IBM is to computers.
With excellent quality, long lasting durability,
a full year waranty and extremely low prices
the FX-85 is the answer. *

e Chamois Shirts

e Wool Sweaters

e Flannel Shirts

e Corduroy Slacks

e Topcoats - London Fogs
e Woolrich®

 

For more information contact Sue Ruley at the Computer Center on Campus

JACK HARTMAN

CUMPUILER CENTRE ate.

2840 Peters Creek Rd. Roanoke 362-1891 Gables Shopping Center Blacksburg 951-0802
Sales Service Software classes Support Toll Free 1-800-542-5899

 

Ladies’ Sale - 1/3 Off - Continues

College “oun Shop

| 111 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

A look back at ’85

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
and MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporters

 

For those of you who tend to look at the past year
through rose-colored glasses, here is a list of Washington
and Lee events you might have forgotten:

Justice served again?: After allegedly boasting to
cellmate Frank Lane of torching tbe Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity house and after being identified by fourteen
witnesses, arson charges against Scot Mesner were drop-
ped on the grounds of ‘‘prosecutorial misconduct” and
“tainted identifications.’’ This gave new meaning to
“Scot free.”’

But Dad, the teacher didn’t like me: This time last
year, the average GPA for non-fraternity members was
2.736 while the average for fraternity members was 2.527.
Administrators said the gap between the two groups was
the greatest in memory.

...But the drive-in window will stay open late: In order
to ‘‘see where costs might be cut,”’ administrators deter-
mined that the library could save $20,000 a year by clos-
ing between midnight and 7 a.m. When that threatened to
put many overnight regulars out in the cold, the ad-
ministration decided to save face and leave well enough
alone.

Do as I say, not as I sing: In the midst of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board crackdown on alcohol at the
pavilion, rocker George Thorogood imposed a three-beer
limit on concertgoers attending his Jan. 19 show. The
meritorious Thorogood performed his biggest hits, in-
cluding “‘I Drink Alone’’ and ‘‘One Bourbon, One Scotch,
One Beer.”’

And if you apply before midnight tonight: By February
of last year, 2,605 high school seniors had applied for ad-
mission to W&L. This smashed all previous records. All
of which sounded great until all 400 freshmen that made
the cut ail tried to wash their clothes at the same time.

Sure the Boss plays for three hours, but does he play
the Pavilion?: After the Spinners’ stellar 45-minute set
at Homecoming, the Student Activities Board signed the
Four Tops for Fancy Dress. The Four Tops proceeded to
play for an equally economical 45 minutes.

Then who is Mr. Epley’s best friend?: After Universi-
ty Treasurer E. Stewart Epley stated in a memorandum
that dogs on campus were ‘becoming a problem,’’ dog
owners throughout the University rose up in defense of
their canine companions. Concern was well-grounded,
however, following reports of a strange, unexplainable

7 NORTH JEFFERSON STREET
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450
703-463-3622

 

incident in which a dog ‘‘jumped” a mailman. The event
was said to set modern theories of dog psychology back 30
years.

Guess who's coming to dinner: Jamie Berger and Chris
Komosa became W&L’s premier culinary critics. For
better or for worse, the ‘‘chow hounds” have been rating
any available Lexington eating establishment all year.
The question is: ‘‘Why?”’

Son, go clean your room: Following first Rush parties
of this year, the condition of the freshman dorms was
said to be at an unprecedented low. Tommy Sloan of
Buildings and Grounds advised: “If vou can’t party with
the big boys

I swear it was here last year: Playboy magazine
mysteriously disappeared from the bookstore shelves
this year. Entertainment for men is still available at the
library front desk.

We gotcha coming back?: For the first time, women
were allowed to participate in fraternity Rush. However,
distributing bids to women will still be confined to Fancy
Dress season.

Geez, I must have left my I.D. in the car: Following the
national trend, Virginia raised its drinking age to 21. Con-
sequently, alcohol was banned from the dormitories,
Last reports show that a startling 100 percent of the
freshman class has sworn off alcohol entirely. One
freshman was quoted as saying: “I’m glad I’m not old
enough. I never liked the taste anyway.”’

It had nothing to do with the girls: The name of the
W&L student pub was changed from the Cockpit to the
General Headquarters. Administrators said that the
change came about because the name “Cockpit” had no
relevance to the student “‘body”’ at W&L.

The 1984-85-86 Lastyearbook: The 1984-85 Calyx was
scheduled to be distributed last fall. At press time today,
proofs of the book had yet to return from the printer.
Editor David Sprunt maintains, however, that the book
will be the best ever. If ever.

I wonder if I left my windows down: The worst flooding
in recent Virginia history roared through the area this
fall. The water caused extensive damage in both Goshen
and Buena Vista. The greatest inconvenience to Lex-
ington residents, though, was that there wasn’t enough
water to shower or do laundry.

I remember this happened at a Who concert once: Over
2,100 people packed into the pavilion for the Dec. 6
R.E.M. concert. The group was openly concerned about
the overcrowding, prompting lead singer Michael Stipe
to say, ‘I’m not a kindergarten teacher.’’ Disappointed
concertgoers regrouped at Lexington Elementary for a
late night game of Simon Sez.

in Room 402).

information call 463-8637.

3:30 p.m. —

 

Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Ah.

Hat

  

 

Pri-az-Z0

(Pre-ott-so) you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

Public invited.

Chapel.

Public invited.

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Rasta invasion

An estimated crowd of about 150 people last night show-
ed up to help the five-man reggae band Art Awareness
Ensemble kick off the 1986 season of Wednesday night

parties in the General Headquarters Tavern. Wednesday
nights in the GHQ are sponsored by the Student Activities
Board.

CN

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, January 9
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Room 401, Howe Hall. (Tea at 4:30

7 p.m.— AUDITIONS FOR “LYSISTRATA”’: University Theatre. For

Friday, January 10
6 and 8 p.m. — BASKETBALL: W&L Invitational. Warner Center.
7 p.m, — AUDITIONS FOR “LYSISTRATA”: University Theater.

Saturday, January 11
6 and 8 p.m. — BASKETBALL: W&L Invitational. Warner Center.

Tuesday, January 14
PHYSICS/ENGINEERING SEMINAR:
Crystals.”’ Leonard Lis. Room 201, Parmly Hall. Coffee at 3 p.m.

7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Maryville. Warner Center.
8 p.m. — CONCERT GUILD CONCERT: Annapolis Brass Quintet. Lee

Wednesday, January 15
4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Poetry
Reading by Rovert Pinsky. Northern Auditorium, University Library.

6 p.m. — WRESTLING: Generals vs. Duke. Warner Center.

‘Live and

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

 

“To Live and Die in L.A.”’ is a com-
plex film of double-dealing and
deceit. It is fast and furious, flashy
and often unfeeling. Ultimately,
though, this cops and robbers light
show is a jumbled set of images, an
uninspiring, impressioniste portrait
of the downfall of decent men.

The story centers on U.S. Secret
Service agent Richard Chance (Wil-
liam L. Petersen) as he tries to
avenge the death of his former part-
ner at the hands of a counterfeiter
played by Willem Dafoe. Chance’s
name says it all — this is a guy who

“Liquid

 

 

 

are use to.

The Sandwich Shoppe
Old Main Shopping Mall
Is Under New Managment

It is our hope to keep the same fine food and service you

Featured everyday, Monday through Friday, will be home-
made soups along with the fine sand wiches you already like.

Please call 463-2595 for your To-Go Order.

Thanks for your continued patronage.

Frank Stinson

 

 

a

Die’
jumps off bridges for sport, and his
investigation of the counterfeiter’s
activities is done with the same aban-
don, bending and breaking the rules,
terrifying his trusting new partner,
John Pankow.

Supporting characters appear
throughout to bring out personality
quirks in the main characters.
Chance’s girlfriend is a double-
crosser. The counterfeiter’s girl is a
bisexual. And the counterfeiter’s
lawyer gives advice to both his client
and the trusting agent Pankow.

In fact, the ‘‘good guys’’ are never
really distinguished from the ‘‘bad’’
guys. Bent rules blur the line be-
tween good and bad until, in the end,
Pankow’s innocence melts away, and

is ‘sporadic’

he becomes a reflection of Chance’s
character.

Director William Friedkin loads
action, violence and toughness into
“L.A.” But his frenetic pacing and
silent, flashing images confuse
rather than impress. As the story
jumps from one center of attention to
another, it loses coherence and direc-
tion. Individual sequences are affect-
ing; the movie, however, is not.

“To Live and Die in L.A.”’ is color-
ful and full of action, but it is uncon-
trolled action that gets in the way of
an interesting storyline. By trying to
be more than its story allows, ‘“‘L.A.”’
loses direction and the audience is
left with a sporadic and unsatisfying
movie.

Curtis Q. Axelrod will
answer your questions

 

By CURTIS Q@. AXELROD

 

Dear Curtis,

Please try to forgive my ignornace,
but explain why shoestrings are tipped
with those little plastic attachments that
inevitably fray and fall off.

M.T.

Dear M.T.,

Ignorance is absolutely no excuse
for Curtis’ forgiveness. However,
your glaring lack of knowledge con-
cerning such rudimentary and trivial
matters like modern shoe architec-
ture is not surprising. Therefore,
Curtis has graciously consented to
answer your inquiry.

The curious contrivances you so
eloquently describe as ‘‘those little
plastic attachments” are known to
the educated world as aglets, similar
to the french word aiguillette, mean-
ing point, and a direct derivative of
the latin acus, meaning needle.

Aglets, or aiglets, as they were
known to their 16th century inventor,
whoever he may be (history books
rarely credit such achievements as
these), were originally developed as
a means of securing articles of cloth-
ing. Linen or silk threads were tipped
with metal tags to facilitate a speedy
adornment of frivolous renaissance
costume. Try lacing your shoes
without the seemingly insignificant
little s.o.b.s, M.T., and their prac-
ticality becomes apparent.

Shoelaces, by the way, were invented
by Harvey Kennedy, a Brit who
made an astounding $2.5 million on
the simple tool.

In keeping with Curtis’ campaign
to enlighten his readers, build their
vocabularies, and strengthen their
quest for knowledge, M.T., you can
thank Edward I for the basis of our
system of shoe sizing, a method
which claims no modicum of com-
mon sense in Curtis’ opinion. In 1305,
the English despot decreed that one
inch (2.5 em) would be the length of
three dried medium-sized barley-
corns placed end to end (a univer-
sally uniform measure, I suppose).
Of course, it would be over 500 years
before the standardization of shoe
sizes became commplace with the In-
dustrial Revolution. Until that time,
almost all footwear was made by
following the outline and shape of an
individual’s foot.

The American shoe sizing system,
as it has evolved from earlier con-
cepts to its present-day use starts
with size 1 in adult shoes and size 0 in
children’s shoes. A size 1 adult shoe
has an insole length of 8 7/12 inches,
while children’s size 0 has an insole
length of 3 11/12 inches. Each full size
increase represents a lengthening of
¥4 of an inch, the supposed length of a
medium-sized barleycorn,

So there. Curtis knows all. He
answers any question on any subject.
Send your feeble attempts to stump
the master, font of all knowledge, to
Curtis Q. Axelrod, c/o The Ring-tum
Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

 

 

 

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

$9 07

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut®
restaurants.

Please present coupor
cash redemption value

yor
Pp

 

Hut.

mbination with s

ily through

whenordering Not validir
1983 Pizza Hut Ine Good

1-20-86

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

her after cent pO

Oy i

165 South Main St.

 

 

 

Welcome Back Students!

Come by for our
after Christmas Sale.

463-9152

 

 

 

 

21 W. Washington St.

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Plan Now
For
Washington’s

Holiday
Break and
Spring
Break

Call 463-7174

 

 

 

 
