'

,

 

 

Sports play

 

‘Championship
Season’ scores

 
  
   

Page 6

  

. =

WAY 161986

 

 

Play sports

 

Triathion set
for Saturday

 
 
   

 

Page 5

  

 

 

Che King-tum Phi

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 29

Advertising
executive
‘to speak

¥
’

‘

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

Allen G. Rosenshine, who from
April 27 until May 12 was chairman
and chief executive officer of the
world’s largest advertising agency,
will visit Washington and Lee on
Tuesday for a series of speeches and
class appearances.

Rosenshine headed the Batten,
Barton, Durstine & Osborn advertis-
ing agency, which last month merged
with Doyle Dane Bernbach and Need-
ham Harper Worldwide to form an
agency with annual billings of $5.02
billion. The trade publication Adver-
tising Age used phrases such as ‘‘The
Big Bang” and “‘megadeal”’ to refer
to the creation of the ‘mega-

: agency.”

~

~

On Monday, however, the firm
Saatchi & Saatchi acquired Ted
Bates Worldwide to form an agency

See Executive, Page 4

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear

Entertaining alumni

Washington and Lee alumni Roger Day (left) and Eric Heinsohn — better
known as Heinsohn and Day — perform in front of Lee Chapel Saturday
afternoon as part of Alumni Weekend. For other news about the weekend,

see Page 3.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

second at nat

 

By LEIF UELAND
and MIKE STACHURA
Staff Reporters

 

Sure, there is a tendency for a
school newspaper to exaggerate the
prowess of the alma mater’s athletic
teams, especially when that team is
headed off to compete for a national
title.

But this week in the sunshine of
Claremont, Calif., the Washington
and Lee men’s tennis team showed
that, if anything, it was worthy of all
the hometown hype. The Generals
advanced to the finals of the NCAA
Division III national team champion-
ships with two strong wins before
falling to the tournament’s top seed,
Kalamazoo College (Mich.), yester-
day, 6-3.

The Generals’ performance was
the best since W&L’s back-to-back
second-place finishes in 1977 and
1978. It is the highest finish for a W&L
team since the tournament instituted
separate championships for teams

and individuals in 1983.

And the best is yet to come. W&L
will return its top five players next
year.

In yesterday’s championship mat-
ch, W&L was matched against a
team that had not lost to a Division
III foe all season. Kalamazoo’s top
two singles players were ranked
among the nation’s top 10, as well.

It was not until the middle of the
doubles matches, however, that the
Hornets were able to clinch their
third national crown.

“We gave it a good shot,” said
W&L head coach Gary Franke.
“Kalamazoo had just a little bit too
much. They’re a great team.”’

“When you work all year for
something and have the opportunity
for it right there and then you don’t
get it, you can get discouraged,”
Franke continued, ‘‘but there’s no for
us reason to be. [Our guys] went
after it very proudly.”

Against Kalamazoo, singles wins
for the Generals came at the No. 3
slot, where freshman Bobby Mat-

Possession charges against students dropped

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

A Lexington judge dismissed mari-
juana possession charges Tuesday
against nine Washington and Lee
students, saying their right to
privacy was violated by a Lexington

, police officer.

«

Lexington lawyer Laurence A.
Mann, counsel for three of the defen-

. dants, made a motion requesting the

~

disallowal of evidence gained by the
officer after he entered the apart-
ment of two of the defendants.

Mann, who said he was joined in
the motion by the three other defense

» attorneys involved in the case, said

“

.

<

~

the officer had not exercised the pro-
per procedures for search and seiz-
ure of evidence.

District Judge Joseph E. Hess

mage

 

allowed Mann’s motion and subse-
quently dismissed the charges
against seniors G.T. Corrigan, Jim
Culnane, Bill Michaud, Ned Richard-
son, Scott Schreiber and Bill Zola,
and juniors Fred Driscoll, Brad Mac-
Cachran and Chris Reavis.

Arresting officer Phillip G. Joines
testified that in responding to a noise
complaint on the evening of Jan. 12,
he approached the door of the East
Nelson Street apartment of Culnane
and Michaud. The door and windows
were covered with a blanket, Joines
said, and he looked through a hole in
the blanket ‘‘to see what I was deal-
ing with.”’

Joines testified that he heard loud
music, saw a number of people, and
observed what he thought to be drug
use,

Joines said he then tried to open the
door to the apartment but found it

Despite noise and trash,

residents praise students

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

While they may not consider
Washington and Lee students to be
saints, several Lexington residents
continue to refer to their collegiate
neighbors and customers as gentle-
men and ladies.

The consensus among many who
regularly come into contact with
students — neighbors, landlords,
merchants and even the police — is
that W&L students are generally
well-behaved, law-abiding people,
even considering the occasional
bounced check or weekend of rowdy
parties.

“It’s a good image, basically,”’

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton
said. ‘‘Naturally, as in any large
group, there are going to be in-
dividual problems. But the problems
that get the most publicity are not
representative of the W&L communi-
t -
Caatias said his department
receives a few complaints about
students, with the most common be-
ing the noise and litter associated
with fraternity parties.

Such problems are ‘‘expected to
some degree,”’ Sutton explained, and
the students usually cooperate in try-
ing to correct them. ‘‘The problem is
not intentional — they just don’t think
of how it impacts on other people,”
he said.

“They have parties, but they
haven’t bothered me much,”’ said

William O. Roberts Jr., Lexington ci-
ty attorney and a neighbor of Sigma
Phi Epsilon. ‘“‘We expect them to
makea little noise.”’

Another neighborhood resident,
Paul G. Leonhard, said there was
some trouble with empty beer bottles
on the lawns early Sunday morning.
“It’s gone by 12 o'clock, though.”

Leonhard, who also rents two
apartments to W&L students, added
that he had heard ‘‘horror stories’’
about damage done to places rented
for the school year, but, when
damage was done to one of his
places, the students apologized.

“As long as a house is in good
shape, then it generally stays that
way,’’ noted William J. Stearns, who
rents to about 100 students.

Managers at two local restaurants
also said they have little to complain
about.

“For the most part, they’re good
customers,’ explained Spanky’s
manager, Matt Morris. ‘‘Some get a
little out of hand sometimes. But
that’s understandable under the cir-
cumstances.”

Wade H. Leslie, owner of the
Palms, said, ‘I can honestly say they
are well-behaved. There is a lot of op-
portunity for trouble.”’

He recalled that some students
have walked out without paying the
check, but had returned the next day
with the money and an apology.

“We were pleasantly surprised,’
he said. ‘‘It’s a good indicator of the
caliber of people we're dealing
with.”

locked. The officer knocked and the
door was opened, and he then entered
and seized Culnane and a “‘bong,”’ or
marijuana pipe, that he was holding.

Additional police officers, — in-
cluding Police Chief L.O. Sutton,
were summoned to the apartment,
and Culnane and Michaud gave the
officers permission to search it,
Joines said. A Rockbridge County
Sheriff's Department sergeant
brought a drug dog to assist in the
search. ‘

The search yielded marijuana
seeds, various drug paraphernalia
that later were found to contain mari-
juana residue, and a minute amount
of a substance later determined to be
cocaine.

Mann, who originally had made the
motion at an April 22 hearing, asked
Hess to suppress the evidence
because Joines had seized it without

ieee cnesecrneeeaeraiereaeenecaerometrare

 

first obtaining a search warrant.
Hess allowed the motion and also
held that Joines had violated the
privacy of the individuals in the
apartment by looking in the hole in
the blanket. .

Protection against unreasonable
search and seizure is guaranteed
under the Fourth Amendment to the
U.S. Constitution.

Joines said he did not get a warrant
because he thought his observation
was enough cause to seize the
evidence, and that he thought the
defendants might have disposed of
the evidence by the time he could
locate a magistrate and obtain a war-
rant.

The case was prosecuted by Com-
monwealth’s Attorney Beverly C.
“John” Read and Assistant Com-

: By W. Patrick Hinley/W&L
The University Theatre takes its show into the community,
performing a play at Lylburn-Downing School last year

 

 

monwealth’s Attorney Richard J.
Cabaniss.

Read said there is no appeal for the
commonwealth in the misdeamean-
or cases. “Quite frankly,’’ he said,
“I’m not certain that I disagree with
Judge Hess’ evaluation of the law as
he applied it to this case.’’

The area of law involved is ‘‘very
confusing,’’ Read added, ‘‘and in this
case I can understand his giving the
benefit of the doubt to the W&L
students.”

Hess also dismissed a cocaine
possession charge against Michaud,
which stemmed from the small
amount of the drug found in the
search. Read said that Cabaniss like-
ly will confer with the state attorney
general’s office about the possibility
of appealing that felony charge to a
grand jury.

Your blow-it-off weather

Friday: Warmer, 80s;
chance of rain for weekend

 

MAY 15, 1986

ionals

thews defeated Jack Hosner 6-2, 6-4,
and at the No. 5 position, where Jack
Messerly downed Rick Verheul 6-2,
1-6, 6-4. Franke had singled out the
play of Matthews and Messerly last
week as being exceptional.

W&L’s final win came from the No.
2 doubles team of Matthews and
Roby Mize, who won in straight sets.
Mize, along with Chris Wiman, had
come up on the short end of three-set
matches in the singles competition.

The tournament director and head
coach at Claremont-Mudd-Scripps,
Hank Krieger, praised the play of the
Generals. ‘‘W&L played really well.
It certainly was the toughest match
Kalamazoo has had in Division III all
year,” he said.

Krieger’s comment is especially
gratifying given the Hornets’ road to
the final included a 7-2 win over
Swarthmore, the No. 3-ranked squad
in the tournament and the only Divi-
sion III team to beat W&L (a 6-3 loss
March 23) this season.

OSee Tennis, Page 5

SS
Court time set

for Dunnavan

A bond hearing was set for 2
p.m. today for former Washington
and Lee senior Roger L. Dun-
navan Jr., of Longwood Fla., who
was indicted last week on two
charges dealing with the theft and
attempted use of credit cards.

Dunnavan, who withdrew from
school during the second week of
this term, was being sought by
Lexington police and at least one
other jurisdiction, according to
Police Chief L.O. Sutton.

Although a bond amount had not
been set this morning, Angela T.
Morrison, victim-witness coordi-
nator for the commonwealth’s at-
torney’s office, said, we’re going
to ask for something very high.”’

 

 

 

Exchange students
frustrated by policy

forbidding

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special To The Phi

 

Sophomore Marguerite Ayers used
to think that if she wasn’t happy at
Hollins College, she could apply as a
transfer student to any coeducational
school in the country.

But now that Washington and Lee
is coeducational, she’s been forced to
rethink that opinion.

Ayers is one of three 20-year-old
women who are attempting to trans-
fer to Washington and Lee but have
run into a roadblock known as “‘the
exchange agreement.” Although
much of the transition of coeducation
has gone smoothly, questions about
the enforcement of the exchange
agreement are ones that W&L’s ad-
ministration has found difficult to
answer.

Because these three women are ex-
change students at W&L as part of a
seven-school program, they have
forfeited their option to transfer
here. The rule is in a booklet that is
supposed to be distributed to all ex-
change students, but the three have
been frustrated this school year by
the administration’s vague responses
to their questions and the seeming
exceptions that already have been
made.

One of the women, junior Elise
Gaston, has received permission to
apply to W&L because of some misin-
formation she says she received from
a dean at Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College.

Ayers and a third student, junior
Jennifer Wise of Sweet Briar College,
have been told their transfer applica-
tions will not be considered as long as
they are enrolled at their home in-
stitutions.

transfers

None of the women has been guar-
anteed admission.

The exchange program was begun
in the 1972-73 school year with W&L,
Hampden-Sydney College, the four
area women’s colleges, Davidson
College and Randolph-Macon College
in Ashland. Davidson dropped out of
the program after becoming coed-
ucational.

“Host institutions shall not accept
transfers from among those students
who have studied under this program
at their institutions,’ the exchange
booklet says.

Underlined in the original ex-
change agreement is the following:

“This policy means specifically
that a student who enrolls at the host
institution as a ‘Special Exchange
Student’ may not thereafter be ac-
cepted by that institution as a
transfer student. The student who
wishes to transfer should refrain
from affiliating with the Student Ex-
change Program, but should apply
directly to the Office of Admissions of
the appropriate institution for accep-
tance as a transfer student.”’

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Associate Dean of Students Paula J.
Wallace, who usually serves as the
exchange officer there, had not been
available to advise Gaston, a Win-
chester resident. Gaston unsuc-
cessfully attempted to transfer to
WA&L last year, and another dean who
was less familiar with the program
advised her to exchange and then re-
apply for transfer, according to
Wallace and Gaston.

Because of that Gaston’s aase is be-
ing considered individually, W&L
Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson said. Wallace

See Transfers, Page 4

 
OPINION
No takers?

How much do members of the Washington and Lee com-
munity value reading The Phi or receiving a copy of the
Calyx? Those might be questions some would prefer go unan-
swered, but the possibility that next year’s paper and year-
book will not be published due to a lack of editors remains a
real and present danger.

 

Every year, the University Publications Board accepts ap-
plications for the various editorships and business manager
positions available. This year, the Board received applica-
tions for editors of the Ariel and The Political Review, but
none for editor of The Phi or the Calyx nor for business
manager of either publication.

Attempts to elicit applications from students have met with
little success, and despite the editors’ best efforts, little hope
remains for finding successors before the end of the school
year.

Maybe “‘that’s the way it is,’’ as Walter Cronkite used to
say, but we (with our vested interests aside) find that hard to
believe.

Doesn’t anyone out there wish to be an editor? A business
manager? They’re both great ways of living. They’re more
than a job. They’re an adventure.

Comeback

The Student Activities Board reported Monday that it will
be returning nearly $10,000 to the Executive Committee at
the end of the year. We think the board should be commended
on its management — compared to previous years, this
year’s SAB has certatinly been a success story.

It was also reported that the SAB lost almost $1,200 this
year through the films it sponsored in the GHQ on Thursday,
Friday and Sunday nights. The SAB films are a bargain at $2
admission although the selection of films has not always at-
tracted much student attention. There was some discussion
on whether the SAB should continue to sponsor these films
that no one seems to attend.

The SAB’s purpose, as stated in the Student Handbook, “‘is
to provide social, cultural and recreational activities aimed
at the needs and interests of the student body.” In addition to
sponsoring films, the SAB puts on various concerts through-
out the year plus, of course, Fancy Dress. The films seem to
provide more of an excuse for ‘“‘a diverse purpose”’ for the
SAB. That is, it allows the SAB to say it does more than spon-
sor parties. If this is the only purpose; the films should be
discontinued. -Certainly. the SAB can find something that
would give the SAB its ‘diverse purpose’’ label while also
meeting the interests of the student body.

The EC suggested that the SAB keep the films, but try
something different. Perhaps showing the films on different
nights or using more advertising would attract greater stu-
dent attention and participation. But it seems the situation
really boils down to the SAB losing money on the films
because students can walk down to the local video store and
rent the same movies that the SAB shows in the GHQ.

Perhaps the SAB should offer different movies, suggested
the EC.

Like what?

Well, like pornographic movies.

Excuse me?

Several years ago the SAB did show pornographic movies
in duPont Auditorium. The crowds were so large that the
revenue generated from these movies made enough money to
pay for the more cultural films that had poor attendance. The
crowds, however, were often very drunk and so rowdy and
destructive that the films eventually were banned from du-
Pont. Should the potential for such vandalism be reinstated?

The discussion made it evident that the porn movies were
very popular. Many of the seniors in the room expressed fond
and funny memories of various escapades that resulted from
the showing of such movies.

I don’t think there is anything wrong with showing such
movies. The phrase “consenting adults’ comes to mind.
Those who want to see these movies may and for those who
choose not to — well nobody’s holding a gun to your head.

Sexually explicit material may not offend me. However,
material that depicts abusive or degrading acts is offensive.
Perhaps the SAB could come up with some guidelines to limit
how “scummy’’ these movies could be.

From an economic standpoint, using the skin flicks to sub-
sidize the ‘‘culture’’ for the rest of the campus really makes
sense, and in that regard I agree with the EC’s suggestion
that the SAB should consider bringing back porn movies.

 
 

—MEK
= .
e Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
Mpeg BOE on cs ideas ee leethincrt tei Mike Allen
TN 6 osc cc ce bbe ccc es cbc cneticve Vide ivies ceessithigtetnas Paul Foutch

Jim Strader
PERRO EE eGR is ee lei cee iccceeccreeseseidvesed Reade Williams
po er er ee ree ee eee ee Mike Stachura
DEON TR a 5c 6 ibe Nias ace hh UE Ns os bbe che cca cqies Cedaa rd cigs Jason Lisi
Photography Editor .............2cessceecseccscuecceeeesens soveees Seve Sadler
TOT II oi og ook ce hc ca rte cciestivece Marshall Boswell
PT IE Bie 5 os choc cdo ccs re de cercccescccrecetssceees David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
pg ee ee Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor. . . .» ++» Marie Kothman
Mo 5 an 065 6808 has a a Fs 0 60 his 00s cbse ieee aces Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
RT ee oe oe Jeff Kimbell
pe Re rr re nh are . Hank Greenberg
MVOT I  GRIIBIIING 0 oso sidan ccc cay cette ctericcces John Fey-er, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley

pe BPAY ee eer ce Vie ee ery Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. ' ‘he
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

Wau

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

 

 

 

Senior lauds memorable mentors

 

MY VIEW
By Tom Maguire

 

A senior quickly realizes that his
(and soon, her) senior year is a year
of one “‘last’’ after another. I noticed

’ with varying emotions my last final

exam, my last history class and my
last Metropolitan Opera radio show
over WLUR. It is now time for my
last ‘‘My View” column. In the past I
have ridiculed, criticized, inveighed
or otherwise discussed a wide variety
ofsubjects. Today I wish to recognize
two gentimen who have done much
(perhaps without realizing it) to
make my time at Washington and
Lee a great experience.

I begin with a man who is recogniz-
ed by some of my fellow students as
the finest teacher the University has.

Male hordes to descend on G

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

Deja vu can be a frightening ex-
perience, especially early on a Sun-
day morning. At least I thought so
when I opened the paper and found
that Goucher College, a women’s col-

lege located just north of
Baltimore in Towson, had decided to
go ‘‘coed.”’

What struck me as odd about the
reporting on the Goucher decision
were several statements caught by
reporters.

Consider, for example, the rather
abject resignation to inferiority voic-
ed by a junior, Rachel Gordon, as
noted in The Washington Post: ‘‘In a
coed school, the guys talk more in
class.”” (Okay, so we have bigger
mouths and never listen to the
teachers anyway.) But that’s not
where the young lass stops. She con-
tinues:. ‘‘They’re called on more in
class.’ (Whoops! This young lady
has just accused the last bastion of
liberal thought and sexual equality
—the lovely realm of professordom
—of being full of sexist porkers! That
deserves a response, I suppose.) And
more: “They (the boys) are the
leaders.”’ (And to think that for near-
ly 250 years Washington and Lee once

To the editors:

Kirk Follo is a German professor, but
he is not one of those professors who
contents himself by exerting the
minimum energy required of him.
Thanks to his skills as a teacher and
— just as importantly — as a motiva-
tor, he helped me do far better in
German classes than I ever had
before. Furthermore, I am quite con-
vinced that the rest of my grades im-
proved because of his influence.
Before meeting him I was content to
slide by; for his classes, I began to
learn how to work. The lessons I
learned served me in good stead in
all my classes, not just German.

Professor Folio has also proven to
be a good friend, always willing to
provide helpful advice on a wide
range of subjects. In fact, he is one of
the best people I know for sitting
around and discussing (intelligently
and considerately) just about any
topic besides my beloved Chicago
Cubs.

believed that. Sorry Smeal, Schlafly,
et al. — you’re just pretending to be
leaders. Stop your charade and go
back to changing Pampers.) Finally,
clincher: ‘“‘Just because it’s 1986
doesn’t mean we are equal.”’ (Ah, the
excuse — and thus the blame — for
coeducation rests squarely upon the
shoulders of the male chauvinist pigs
of years gone by and long since
forgotten? Sure.) M42

Let Ms. Gordon believe what she
wishes. I think many would agree
that the sum value of her statement
weighs more heavily in favor of
coeducation and tougher academic
standards to keep similar students
out of such schools.

For Goucher, coeducation may
prove to be a panacea. Falling ap-
plication numbers and SAT scores.
Lower enrollment. Coeducation may
have been the only thing left to do in
their case, just as many believed it
was in ours. But irony plays a cruel
trick on us in looking for comparisons
between the two situations.

At Goucher, the president has been
a staunch defender of the single-sex
school/ideal, and was firmly against
the proposition that Goucher allow
men to enter its hallowed halls.
Here? Well, no one is really sure
where Wilson stood, although he said
after the decision that he voted in

Despite this one major shortcom-
ing, Kirk Follo, is in my opinion and
in the opinion of many of my class-
mates, the “MVP” of the faculty. 1
wish the administration would
recognize his value as the students
do!

I now come to the second subject of
this paean, and as a senior, I know a
paean when I see one! Dr. Gordon
Spice, in his role as director of the
Glee Club, has provided hundreds of
W&L students with more fun and bet-
ter experiences than could be re-
counted in a book, much less this col-
umn. For many in the Glee Club, in-
cluding myself, the annual concert
tour is the highlight of the whole
year. No matter what else I do in life,
the memories of a small pub in Fy-
field, England, or a campfire outside
Houston, Texas, or (best of all) the
sight of an old man moved to tears of
joy by Biebl’s Ave Maria in Eichstatt,
West Germany, will always stay with

favor of the move.

And the students at both schools?
Well, a recent non-binding vote at
Goucher showed the women firmly
against allowing men to sit alongside
them in the classroom. Here, the
sexes differed, but the notion remain-
ed the same.

And there are the similar reactions
to a sense .of ‘betrayal’seen at both
schools. One Goucher student “‘plop-
ped herself on the floor (of the alum-
nae hall where the news conference
announcing the decision was being
made) and announced, ‘We are not
going to leave.’ ’’ Noted another stu-
dent, ‘‘All you’ve done this morning
is disrupt our whole lives.”’ Seems we
have heard that story before also.

There was also an interesting aside
that appeared in Monday’s paper ina
column by Jonathan Yardley. He
wrote: ‘‘The finishing school is dead.
With the exception of a few institu-
tions in the South that still cater to
the region’s moonbeamed upper
crust, women’s schools are no longer
expected merely to give students a
veneer of genteel culture for their
once-traditional role as_ wives,
mothers and hostesses.’’ To which
schools does he refer, and just what
constitutes a ‘‘moonbeamed upper
crust?”’

It would seem to me that women’s

LETTERS

Student disagrees with transcript stamping

    

.

‘
me. or
Every year Dr. Spice takes a group
of 40 or 50 men of varying degrees
ability, interest, and dedication, and
produces music of which anyon
would be proud. “Coc’s” sense

humor and his belief that singin
should be as much fun as work havt
provided an atmosphere in which few :
could fail to have a great time.

When I was a freshman I despaired”
of ever finding my niche here. It wag
the Glee Club rehearsals that ke
me looking forward to the end of the
day, until finally I found my spot. Fur
providing a safe haven and many
wonderful memories, Gordon Spice
has my heartfelt gratitude. ‘

[have gotten a little maudlin in this
column (probably more than a little),
but I can think of no finer way t
recognize what Kirk Follo and Got
don Spice have meant to me than by
honoring them in this, my last col-
umn ’

oucher?

schools — originally begun to givé
women an opportunity for gaining
confidence in their leadership
abilities without young men running
about — deserve the same opportuni*
ty for a continued life of solitary ex,
istence as do the few remaining
men’s schools. I only object to the no*
tion that it is more permissible tq .
have women’s schools because tradi-
‘tionally, my dear, you know women
have had it rougher than men, and
after all, we owe it to them. Right.
Got it on the button. We owe them 4
chance at discrimination because
once we practiced it ourselves?,
Maybe in your book of logic, but not
in mine. ”
First there was man, and men’s;
colleges. Then came woman, and
women’s colleges. Then, the coed’
school? I guess it only seems a:
natural progression, by most logical ,
standards. '

CORRECTION

The age of former Washington
and Lee president Fred C. Cole at
his death was misstated in last
week’s Ring-tum Phi. He was 74.

.

 

?

4

 

 

 

Although the Honor System has constantly
been under criticism this year for the apparent
disinterest of the student body in upholding the
system as it stands, I have a procedural criti-
cism that I would like to bring to the attention of
the student body. Whether or not the student
generation chooses to define an action as an

_ honor violation is one matter, but whether the
student generation has the opportunity to judge
an action is another. The current system is flaw-
ed in that appeals to the student body are discou-
raged by the practice of marking a student’s
transcript ‘Student Not in Good Standing’’ fol-
lowing a conviction in an open hearing [as] op-
posed to ‘‘Withdrawn’’ following a closed hear-
ing. After conviction in a. closed hearing, even an
innocent student will think twice before ‘‘going
open” when the stakes are this high. Circum-
stantial evidence which the Executive Commit-
tee deems sufficiently incriminating may not
hold up in a court of law. The validity of this
argument, admittedly, however, will only be
known in time.

Of course, many other factors may contribute
to a student’s decision not to request an open
hearing. Pressure from parents to withdraw
quietly in face of the threat of a marked tran-
script is one. The advice of advocates from the
Law School who are entering the reading period
before their exams is another. A third factor is
simply the intimidation of having one’s ‘‘dirty
laundry” aired before the student body. While
arriving at his decision not to appeal, a certain
student said to me, ‘Even if I win in an open
hearing, 85 percent of the student body is still go-
ing to think I did it anyway.” Unfortunately,
after observing the small crowds at open hear-
ings and then hearing blatantly uninformed opi-
nions running rampant on the Hill, I have come
to the conclusion that he was wrong: 90 percent

 

of the student body would probably support con-
viction.

Controversy has surrounded all of the open
hearings this year. In light of student opinion
that guilty people are beating the system by go-
ing open, I can understand someone’s reluctance
to risk the transcript dilemma. I could not
respect the decision, however, because I had
thought — naively — that the purpose of the ap-
peals process is to protect innocent people. The
system, I regret to admit I have discovered, is
not fulfilling this function.

In a system in which a single body serves as
prosecutor, judge and jury, it is necessary that
the appeals process be open to prevent abuses of
power. Simply dropping the punitive aspect of
the withdrawal stamp would allow the student
body to serve as a check on the Executive Com-
mittee.

And the Executive Committee needs a check.
The EC is not infallible, and there is no harm in
recognizing its limitations. I wonder if, in light of
student body verdicts that have overturned EC
rulings, the EC may, understandably, have
become frustrated with the system. Perhaps the
temptation exists, even subconsciously, to con-
viet under the assumption that the accused will
“go open’’ anyway. In fact, following a recent
verdict of conviction, I was told by one EC mem-
ber — who shall remain nameless for his protec-
tion as well as my own — that he was surprised
that the student in question did not seek an open
trial. One wonders what to think upon hearing
this statement from an EC member.

Changing the transcript stamp would be con-
sistent with the philosophy of our Honor System
that holds that removal of offenders is not puni-
tive but purative. In fact, I do not understand the
philosophy behind the current practice unless it
is to discourage frivolous appeals. This recom-
mendation would probably encourage more open
trials, but better frivolous appeals than no ap-

peals at all because innocent students are afraid
to test the system that is structurally unsound
and unfair.

I confess that I am not sure how this revision in
the honor system would come about. I have
noticed in the past couple of weeks the White |:
Book Revision of Article III, Sec. O that permits:
the EC to waive confidentiality if it deems neces-
sary. I was unaware that this revision was even. .).
under consideration. I find it quite ironic that the. |.
confidentiality that prevents me from alluding to
a specific case protects the EC from criticism }
now and may be violated by the EC. Certainly
there is little precedent for any legislative body
to impose limits to its own power. For the sake of |
the system, however, I hope that this reeommen- | |;
dation will at least be discussed by the Executive
Committee. r

Holly Williams
Class of '89

Cinema supporters praised |:

To the editors:

The Washington and Lee Film Society would
like to thank all those who gave their support,
both financially and in spirit, to make the 1985-86
season truly one of the best ever in the society’s
history. The Film Society looks forward to
presenting another exciting season next year
and in coming years. Your continued support is
much appreciated!

Robert Merritt,
President

Jim Foley,
President, ex officio
Dick Grefe,

Adviser | ;

 

 
 

 

 

 

Deringer
named to
new post

 

*By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

¢ Senior journalism major J.
Caulley Deringer of Chestertown,
‘Md., has been named an alumni
staff associate for next school

ear.

Deringer said his function in the
‘newly created position, which is
similar to the “baby dean’”’ posi-

 

tion in the admissions office, will
‘be to be “right-hand man’’ to
Alumni Director Richard B. Ses-
soms and Associate Alumni Direc-
‘tor Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins IT.
» “TI will be executive secretary
and the person in charge of
Kathekon,” Deringer said.
‘Kathekon is the student alumni
sassociation composed of juniors
and seniors who ‘‘are really in-
terested in the University,” accor-
rding to Deringer. :
, Deringer said he will work “‘in
the field’ by attending about a
fifth of the alumni chapter
eetings in order to keep close
we contact between the Alumni
‘Association and its chapters.
, Writing academic class notes
and articles for the school’s alum-
‘ni magazine and corresponding
with individual alumni will be
among his other duties.

Class of
‘61 funds
renovation

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

 

Renovations on No. 32 University
Place, one of four antebellum houses
on campus will begin by late this
summer for use as a new admissions
office.

Both the admissions and financial
aid offices will be moved from
Washington Hall to the new Frank J.
Gilliam Alumni House, which orig-
inally was built in 1841 and 1842. The
space cleared by the move will be us-
ed by the development office, whose
present house next to R.E. Lee
Episcopal Church is ‘‘about ready to
fall down,”’ according to Frank A.
Parsons, executive assistant to the
University president.

The space also may be used as ex-
pansion room for the business office.

The project has a $700,000 budget
“that includes everything,’ said Par-
sons, including architectural fees,
landscaping and parking.

On Friday, the class of 1961
presented a gift of $250,000 for the
project during reunion-weekend
festivities.

The class worked for about 18
months to raise the money, beginning

The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

William R. Johnston, Class of ’61, dedicates the new house

with a 30-member committee made
of “people that gave a $5,000
minimum each,” said Associate
Alumni Director Leroy C. “Buddy”
Atkins II.

The gifts are capital gifts that can
be spread over five years. Atkins

said the largest gift was ‘“‘probably
$15,000.”

“Our hope is to have it done by the
same contractor that is doing the
residence hall for us,’’ Parsons said.
The firm is I.M. Turner and Com-
pany Inc. of Salem.

 

Attendance low
for ’86 reunions

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Last weekend’s reunions drew a
smaller number of alumni than
usual, but the planned events
were better-attended than at some
past reunions, according to Assoc-
iate Alumni Director Leroy C.
“Buddy” Atkins II.

About 800 alumni and guests at-
tended the festivities, which
began Friday with a speech by
former professional football
coach Walt Michaels of the class
of 1951. Last year’s reunions drew
between 1,000 and 1,500 visitors,
he said.

Atkins said that among pro-
grams that were “‘better attended
than in the past’ were a presenta-
tion of a gift for the new alumni
house by the class of 1961 and the
dedication in Lee Chapel of a pla-
que honoring the only alumnus
toreceive the Congressional
Medal of Honor, James H. Monroe
of the class of 1966, who was killed
in action in the Vietnam War.

The Alumni Board of Directors
met on campus Friday morning.
Among the highlights were the
following:

eA career-assistance program

that will be begin on a trial basis
next year and will be sponsored by
alumni chapters in Washington,
Atlanta and Roanoke. The pro-
gram is primarily ‘‘to help juniors
and seniors...find internships and
jobs,’ said Alumni Director
Richard B. Sessoms.

ePaul J.B. Murphy reported
that the Alumni Fraternity Coun-
cil plans a ‘“‘renaissance’’ of the
W&L fraternity system, including
an October symposium and a
long-term physical regeneration
of the fraternity houses.

eThe Annual Fund as of April 30
is $211,632 and 733 donors ahead of
last year’s fund at this time. The
fund totals $1,292,009 and has 5,309
contributors through last month.
Sessoms called the fund ‘‘bread-
and-butter money”’ that goes di-
rectly to the University.

The Alumni Association on Sat-
urday in Lee Chapel elected the
following five new members to the
board of directors, increasing the
number from 19 to 20: James J.
Dawson of Lawrenceville, N.J.;
John D. Klinedinst of San Diego;
Robert D. LaRue of
Houston; James A. Meriwether of
Alexandria; and Richard R. War-
ren of Scarsdale, N.Y.

Three receive Distinguished Alumni Awards

Three Washington and Lee
graduates received Distinguished
Alumni Awards during reunion ac-
tivities on Saturday.

The three alumni selected by the
board of directors of the W&L Alumni
Association were:

eSamuel B. Hollis of Memphis,
Tenn., president of Federal Com-
press & Warehouse Co., a 1951
graduate and father of senior Lee

“Hollis.

eBertram R. Schewel of Lynch-
burg, president of Schewel Furniture
Co., a 1941 graduate.

eRichard H. Turrell of Short Hills,

N.J., senior vice president of
Fiduciary Trust Co., a 1949 graduate
and father of junior Doug Turrell.
Hollis spent three years with the
U.S. Navy following graduation from
W&L. Upon returning to Memphis, he
spent three years as executive assis-
tant to Memphis Mayor Edmund
Orgill. Hollis began his business
career with Percy Galbreath & Son
Inc., a mortgage banking firm, and
later became corporate secretary of
Plough Inc., now a part of Schering-
Plough Inc., a cotton warehousing
firm. In 1970, he became president of
Federal Compress & Warehouse Co.

Hollis and two partners recently pur-
chased the firm from its parent com-
pany, Southwide Inc.

Active in many professional, civic,
and charitable organizations, Hollis
is current chairman of the board of
the National Cotton Council, past
president of the Cotton Warehouse
Association of America, past chair-
man and president of the Memphis
Area Chamber of Commerce and
past campaign chairman of the
United Way of Greater Memphis,

Hollis has served as a member of
the W&L Alumni Association Board
of Directors, the Achievement Coun-

cil during the recent development
campaign, and the recently formed
Planning and Development Council.

As president of Schewel Furniture,
a fourth generation family business,
Schewel has headed a business pro-
minent in the economy of many
Virginia communities. He also has
been active in civic service, devoting
his time to many diverse organiza-
tions.

In 1985, Schewel received the Pro
Opera Civica Award of the Greater
Lynchburg Chamber of Commerce.
He has also received the Brotherhood
Award of the National Conference of

Christians and Jews. Schewel has
served as president and director of
the Lynchburg Retail Merchants
Association.

His sons, Marc and Jonathan, have
attended Washington and Lee.

In addition to being senior vice
president of Fiduciary Trust Co.,
Turrell serves as director or on the
advisory council of seven corpora-
tions.

Turrell has served as a member of
the W&L Alumni Association Board
of Directors and as president of the
New York City Alumni Association.

 

 

=x-secretary Chappell
eaves W&L tomorrow

 

yy JASON LISI
‘ews Editor

 

Carole K. Chappell, the former
Jniversity Center secretary and cur-
ent part-time secretary at the
Jniversity Theatre, says she will
gave Washington and Lee tomorrow
@look for a job in Richmond.

Chappell, who has worked at W&L
ince 1976, said she has offers for
ecretarial positions at several Rich-
nond companies, but does not expect
6 start work until mid-June.

“She said she is going to Richmond
“cause of better job opportunities
ind hay desire to live ina large city.
‘Leaving W&L will be difficult, she

amily to me for 10 years.”

“Those people who have been my
siends and family here will be my
tiends for life,” she added.

Chappell had worked as University
‘enter secretary for nine years when

 

*

aid, noting that “‘it’s been like a:

she was promoted to recruitment
coordinator in September. She
resigned that job in mid-November
and started the part-time position at
the University Theatre.

She said that although she will be in
Richmond, she plans to visit W&L
during the next school year. “Fancy
Dress is high on my list of things to
do,” she said.

Senior Sandy Whann, chairman of
this year’s Muscular Dystrophy
Superdance committee, said Chap-
pell helped the group at its meetings
by taking notes and typing minutes
on her own time. ‘She really helped
us out — it took a lot of time,” he
said.

“Her involvement with W&L above
and beyond that for which she was
hired is incredible,” Whann added.

“When she puts her effort behind
something, you can be assured it will
be done and be done well,”’ he said.
“The University is really going to
miss her.”’

Sophomore Brad Watkins said

 

 

CAROLE K. CHAPPELL

Chappell helped him understand the
campus in his freshman year and can
see why she would want to leave.
“Sometimes Lexington holds you
back and you have to go forward,”’ he
said. “‘She’s got a lot of energy.”

“T wish her the best,” he added.

There have been some vast chang-
es in the students and faculty in the
past 10 years, Chappell said. “‘It’s not
as close as it used to be,’’ she said.
“There’s not the camaraderie that
there was a few years ago.”

She added that she has enjoyed her
years in Lexington. ‘I just want to
leave gracefully,” she said.

Film and discussion to consider

several aspects of pornography

 

By MARGUERITE AYERS
Staff Reporter

 

“Not a Love Story,” a film depic-
ting the social implications of por-
nography, will be shown tonight at 7
in Northen Auditorium. Following
the film, a panel will lead a discus-
sion focusing on several aspects of
pornography, as well as topics such
as censorship.

University Counseling Psycholo-
gist James W. Worth said he hopes
the film will tie in several issues
relating to pornography. Among
these are sexism, freedom of the
press and violence, particularly
when it is directed toward women

Worth said the movie may also br-
ing to light the issue of sexual morali-
ty, and “how much freedom there
should be to find sexual satisfac-
tion.”’

 

NEWS BRIEFS
‘Car vandalism reported; tire-slashing suspect charged

The point of the documentary,
Worth explained, is to show what is
involved in pornography. The film
follows a filmmaker and a stripper
who explore the world of peep shows
and strip joints. By the nature of its
subject, the film contains some sex-
ually explicit scenes.

According to Associate Professor
of Psychology Nancy A. Margand,

the film is “not very comfortable to

see,’’ but she said she hopes it will
provide valuable exposure to a topic
that is rarely brought to light.

Worth, who with Margand and sev-
eral others will lead the discussion
after the film, said the group will
“try to help the audience deal with
what they see.”

He said the film is particularly
topical because of recent national in-
terest in the issue of pornography.

 

SAB discusses
porn with EC

Is there a demand for porn at
Washington and Lee?

That issue was raised at Mon-
day’s Executive Committee meet-
ing when Student Activities Board
Chairman Mike Guerriero asked
the EC’s opinion on whether the
board should stop showing movies
because attendance was very low
this year.

EC President John Lewis jok-
ingly raised the idea of showing
pornographic movies as a possible
way of increasing attendance. The
SAB stopped showing porn movies
about three years ago, and has no
plans to bring them back, Guer-
riero said.

—Daniel Bunch

 

 

 

      

 

4,

, Staff Reports

 

¢

Several auto break-ins and vandalisms occurred over
" the weekend, according to police reports.

*. Hollins College student Elizabeth Berry reported that

$86 in eash and other items were taken from her 1986
* Buick Skyhawk while it was parked behind the Sigma
« Alpha Epsilon fraternity house.

Sophomore Reed Hibbs reported that someone took a
cassette box with 30 tapes, valued at $180, from his car
+ while it was parked in the Spanky’s parking lot. Hibbs
, said he parked his car and ran to his apartment, and

when he returned several minutes later, someone had
* taken the tapes.

+ Two Sweet Briar students reported that their purses

_ were stolen early Saturday morning from their car
while it was parked at Henry and Main streets.

*  Qne of the students, Beth Ann Tropold, said a pair of

glasses, several credit cards and cash were in her
purse. Her possessions were valued at $159.

‘ ‘The other student, Beth Doyle, said she lost $74 worth

. of cash and other property in the incident.

There were several cases of auto vandalism and
thefts from cars Saturday night near fraternities.

+ Sophomore John Packett reported that his 1981 Buick

Regal was broken into and vandalized while parked
behind the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity house. Someone

+ entered the unlocked car and removed the rearview

mirror — and in the process, broke the windshield —
and bent the gear shift. Damage was estimated at $300.
Brian G. Kelly, of Towson,-Md., who was visiting the

Phi Psi house Saturday night, reported his car was also
vandalized. The oil filter casing was bent and the hoses
from the filter casing and the carburetor were removed
from Kelly’s 1983 Nissan Stanza, causing $150 in
damage.

Caroline S. Coffey, a Hollins College student, reported
that the oil cap and the air filter were removed from her
1980 Datsun while it was parked behind the Zeta Beta
Tau fraternity house. Two speakers, valued at $50, were
also taken from Coffey’s car.

A 1978 Jeep Wagoneer belonging to Hollins student
Kimberly G. Roberts was broken into while it was park-
ed behind the S.A.E. house. Roberts reported that $60
worth of cash and tools were taken.

Finally, sophomore Rudy Celis reported that early
Sunday morning, someone bent the license plate on his
1986 Jeep and took a Ducks Unlimited tag valued at $10.

Police Chief L.O. Sutton said David Lee Moore, a resi-
dent of Rockbridge County, was arrested and charged
in connection with six tire slashings that occurred in the
Law School parking lot in mid-March.

Ryans to give concert

Public Speaking Professor Halford R. Ryan and his
family will present a concert in Lee Chapel on Sunday
at3p.m.

Cheryl Ryan, the professor’s wife, will begin the pro-
gram with Frederick Chopin's Valse brillante in F Ma-
jor Op. 34, No. 3, to be followed by Claude Debussy’s
First Arabesque and Franz Liszt’s Liebestraum No. 3 .
She studied piano at the New England Conservatory of

Music and received her bachelor’s degree from Boston
University and her master’s from the University of Il-
linois. She has served as a guest lecturer in music at
Hollins College.

Their daughter, Shawn Ryan, a sixth grader at Lex-
ington’s Lylburn Downing Middle School, will perform
works for the piano and violin. She will play Franz
Schubert’s Impromptu in A-flat Major, Op. 242, No. 2 on
the piano. Shawn has studied violin for seven years
under Cynthia Penne. She most recently performed An-
tonio Vivaldi’s Concerto in A Minor with other Suzuki
String students with the Rockbridge Symphony Orches-
tra. She will end the first half of the program by playing
Arcangelo Corelli's La Folia and will be accompanied
by her mother on the piano.

Professor Ryan will play the organ. The second half
of the program will begin with Boellman’s Suite Gothi-
que pur Grande Orgue, consisting of a Chorale, Priere a
Notre Dame, and Toccata. Steubbin’s In Summer fea-
tures the solo voices of the organ, The final piece in the
French romantic era selections is Widor’s Toccata
from the Fifth Organ Symphony. Ryan is a member of
the American Organ Society.

History seminars slated

The history department will present seminars on
“Politics in Central America and the Caribbean Be-
tween the Wars’ on Thursday, May 22, and Tuesday,
May 27.

The seminars will focus on the issues and personali-
ties who faced them, primarily in Guatemala, El Salva-

dor and Cuba. Both sessions will be held in Classroom D
of Lewis Hall, are are open to the public. Refreshments
will be served.

The first session will be at 10 a.m. on Thursday, May
22. Sophomore Chris Rooker will read a paper on Guate-
mala in the 1930s and junior Sam McLean will read a
paper on E] Salvador in the 1920s. Commentators will
include senior David Moose, whose expertise focuses on
Honduras and Nicaragua in the 1920s, and senior
Scott Schreiber, whose area of concern is Guatemala in
the 1920s.

The second session will be presented at 10 a.m. on
Tuesday, May 27, and will feature papers dealing with
Cuba read by sophomore Steven Roth and freshman
Doug Franzese. Commentators will include senior G.T.
Corrigan, whose specialty is Nicaragua in the 1930s,
and senior Jaimie Hayne, whose background is in 19th
century Cuban social history.

Publications Board names editors

The University Publications Board last week ap-
pointed juniors Alex Bryant of Richmond and John
Pensec of Ridgewood, N.J., as co-editors of the
Washington and Lee Political Review for next year.

Junior Sean Butler of Williamsburg and first-year
law student Murray Stanton of Rochester were re-
appointed as editors of the Ariel, the campus literary
journal.

Each magazine is published biannually.

Editors and business managers for The Ring-tum Phi
and the Calyx will be appointed this month.

 

 

sence a cn a ht

 
 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

Transfers

Continued from Page 1

said R-MWC would support Gaston
“in every way possible — we’re cer-
tainly not trying to fight her.”’

Earlier this year, Gaston re-
quested and received permission
from the R-MWC president to apply
for transfer. She completed her ap-
plication during spring vacation, but
as of yesterday, she had not heard
from W&L.

Both Ayers and Wise said they
were upset because their applica-
tions would not be considered.

Ayers said that although coeduca-
tion gave her the opportunity to apply
for transfer, she also was wary.

“| just wanted to feel out the situa-
tion,’’ she said.

Ayers said that Holmes showed no
emotion either way when she told
him that she wanted to be an ex-
change student with the intent of
transferring. She said that Simpson,
her academic adviser here, remind-
ed her of the rules when she arrived
but encouraged her to try to transfer
if she wished. When the two put
together Ayers’ class schedule, it
was with the possibility of transfer-
ring in mind.

“What I tell any student is that
we've got rules, but if you want to ap-
peal the rules, there are channels,”
Simpson said.

“T think the problem is that this
[exchange] rule has kind of
represented a gray area,’ said
Ayers, who is withdrawing from
Hollins and plans to attend Colorado

 

University in her hometown of
Boulder this fall.

Although she will be a CU student
and not a Hollins student when she
applies to W&L, Ayers is worried that
her participation in the exchange
program still will work against her.

“I’m taking a big gamble,” she
said. ‘‘I don’t want to graduate from
CU. The whole focus of going there is
getting back in here.”’

After Ayers withdraws from Hol-
lins, her transfer application to W&L
will be considered, Dean of the Col-
lege John W. Elord said in an inter-
view. ‘‘She can apply after attending
the University of Colorado and we
will process her application for ad-
mission,”’ he said.

Wise, who graduated from Lex-
ington High School in 1983, said she
liked Sweet Briar but would prefer to
attend W&L, especially because of its
theater program. A Lexington na-
tive, she attempted to transfer last
year but was turned down because of
a deficiency of mathematics and
science credits. Her father has been
a chemistry professor at Virginia
Military Institute for about 35 years.

Wise said W&L Admissions Direc-
tor William M. Hartog III told her
that if she wanted to get into W&L,
she would have to stay at Sweet Briar
and take mathematics and science
courses instead of English, music
and theater. Instead, she pursued her
regular studies and became an ex-
change student here winter term. In
January, she decided she didn’t want
to leave.

Wise said she knew about the ex-
change agreement but decided to
press the issue. She most likely will
return to Sweet Briar in the fall and

will graduate from there.

All three women said that although
they hold nothing against the ad-
ministrators at W&L or their home
institutions, the experience has been
frustrating. Gaston and Ayers had
been asking about transferring since
the school year began, yet it was not
until the end of March that W&L an-
nounced any definite decisions about
their status as potential transfers.

The three also said they were
discouraged because they thought
they had proved that they could be
more successful academically and
more ‘involved extra-curricularly
than the average W&L student.

Ayers has been on the Honor Roll
and the Dean’s List here, writes for
The Phi and is a member of the Stu-
dent Activities Board. She said that if
accepted, she would like to start an
intercollegiate equestrian team.
Gaston is on the staffs of WLUR-FM
and Cable 9, and now is interning at
the Smithsonian Institution in
Washington. Wise was on the Dean’s
List and has been in three W&L
theater performances this year.

“They have enough students who
just twiddle their thumbs for four
years and then graduate,”’ Wise said.
“T think I contribute more to the
school than some of the people who
go here.”’

Despite the transitional problems,
Simpson said W&L definitely would
continue to participate in the ex-
change. Not only have the other
schools been reminded to emphasize
the non-transfer clause, she said, but
it is one of the topics that was on the
agenda for an exchange officers’
meeting held today at Hollins.

Special cases were exceptions

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special To The Phi

 

Late last semester, Hollins College
sophomore Marguerite Ayers and
Sweet Briar College junior Jennifer
Wise found out they couldn’t transfer
to Washington and Lee because they
are exchange students here.

To allow them to do so, they were
told, would be to violate the exchange
agreement and possibly endanger
the future of the seven-school ex-
change program.

Dean of the College John W. Elrod
wrote to Ayers and Wise on March
27: “This policy has been observed
without exception, and I believe for
very good reasons.”

Both women said they thought an
exception had been made for Kath-
leen Plante, a former Hollins College
student who will graduate from W&L
next year. Plante was enrolled here
for three semesters under the provi-
sions of the seven-school program
from January 1984 through Decem-

ber 1984.

“The rules, as I understand it,
were not broken for me at all,”
Plante said.

Elrod agreed. Plante had no inten-
tion of returning to Hollins and had
withdrawn from there before apply-
ing to W&L, he said. She also had
received permission to apply for
transfer from the presidents of both
schools.

“The most extenuating circum-
stance is that she withdrew from
Hollins,’ Elrod said. Although she
transferred credits from Hollins, she
is not considered a transfer from
there.

Wise, a 20-year-old Lexington resi-
dent, said she thought withdrawing
from school before applying to W&L
seemed to be an exception to the
policy. “It’s like putting a mask on
it,”’ she said.

After she withdrew from Hollins,
Plante applied to W&L and went to
live in Japan for six months.
Although she was not enrolled at any
school in Japan, she had developed*

 

   
     
  
   

 

NEED Lite 103-463-1670
A CAR? | Util Sites
z 103-377-6331
Students under 21
Must Have
prior Insurance
Approval Brian and Doris
Fredricksen
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450

WANTED: Ride West, with final destination of
Yellowstone National Park. Must arrive by
June 4. Will share expenses.

Call Tal McThenia
at 463-8517 or 463-7656

 
 

 

 

SSeS

With this coupon
Movie Rentals — $2.00 per day
3 for *5.00

Player Rental — $5.00
1 Year Membership — 99°

Offer Expires June 10
Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center - 463-2177
j Mon.-Sat. 11-9 p.m.

VIDEO CENTER 1

OF LEXINGTON
kkk

* SPECIAL x
x*

Sun. 12-5 p.m.

an independent program with some
W&L professors before leaving the
U.S. When she was accepted at W&L
and returned this fall, she received
academic credit for her independent
work.

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson said Plante’s
case was decided by the schools’
presidents because W&L wasn’t sure
how to deal with the situation. She
said, though, that early in the pro-
gram, a precedent was set when the
case of an exchange student wishing
to transfer from one women’s college
to another was decided at the pres-
idential level.

To make exceptions is like not hav-
ing any rules, Elrod said, when asked
what would be done about the
women’s situation.

“The answer to the question is that
we are reasserting the rules’ orig-
inally agreed upon by the seven
schools, Elrod said. To make excep-
tions ‘would undermine the pro-
gram, then and now.”

be fully subscribed.

storage at $44,000.

Tom Baker
403-2510
Evenings

 

 

SAB praised for $10,000 surplus:

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Activities Board
reported at Monday night’s Ex-
ecutive Committee meeting that it
will finish the year with about a
$10,000 surplus.

The projected surplus is a result of
finishing ahead of budget in the fall
and winter and having enough money

budgeted for the spring.

The SAB finished with a $7,883 sur-
plus in the fall and a $1,976 surplus in
the winter. For spring term, $8,800 is
budgeted. Any money left over from
that will be added to the $9,859 cur-
rent surplus.

Weekends resulted in the biggest
loss for the SAB in the winter. For
weekends, $10,000 was budgeted and
just over $14,000 was spent.

The report showed that $2,964 was
lost on Mid-Winter Weekend, $5,460

on Fancy Dress and $4,902 on |
Violent Femmes Concert. "

The General Headquarters tave’
helped provide the SAB with i
surplus. For the GHQ, $4,000 w:
budgeted and a $1,484 profit wi |
earned from door receipts, resultir |
ina total GHQ surplus of $5,484.

EC President John Lewis ct
gratulated SAB Chairman mil
Guerriero and treasurer Georg.”
Boras on their work this year. Lag”,
year the SAB fin:shed with a loss.

 

Executive

 

() Continued from Page 1

with $7.63 billion in billings. News ac-
counts said that agreement likely
was spurred by the BBDO deal.

Rosenshine will be able to discuss
his weeks at the top of the advertising
universe in a presentation called
“Advertising Today’’ on Tuesday at 7
p.m., in Room 327 of the Commerce
School.

Rosenshine will sit in on three lec-
tures during his visit: Psychology
Professor David G. Elmes’ ‘‘Psycho-
logy of Motivation”’ lecture in Tucker
Hall at 2 p.m., Administration Pro-
fessor Lawrence Lamont’s Sales and
Marketing Management class, and
Journalism Professor Robert J

deMaria’s Broadcast Management
class.

Elmes said his class pays attention
to controlled situations in psycho-
logy.
“We also like to pay particular at-
tention to uncontrolled situations,
things like marketing, advertising
and slanting ads.” Elmes said.

Rosenshine joined BBDO in 1965 as
a copywriter, became a copy super-
visor in 1967 and was elected a vice
president in 1968. He was appointed
an associate creative director in 1970
and was elected to the Board of Di-
rectors in 1973.

Four years later he was an ex-
ecutive vice president of BBDO, and
then an executive vice president of
BBDO International in 1980.

He became president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of BBDO Interna-
tional in 1985.

 

 

ALLEN G. ROSENSHINE a

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

The Washington and Lee Glee
Club and the Mary Baldwin Col-
lege Theatre and Choir will pre-
sent the Gilbert and Sullivan
operetta ‘‘Princess Ida” Saturday
and Sunday, at 8 p.m. Perfor-
mances will be at the University
Theatre on Henry Street.

“Princess Ida’ deals with the
staff of a women’s university
where no men are allowed. Three
young men disguise themselves
and matriculate. Confusion en-
sues, but all is resolved in the
grand finale typical of the Gilbert
and Sullivan style.

The production will feature
Doreen Dillon as Princess Ida,
Kristin Wahlquist as Melissa,
Tom Maguire as Prince Hilarion,
Tom O’Brien as Cyril and Michael
Herrin as Florian. Also perform-

 

ing will be Todd Jones, W&L 85,
as King Gama; Ken Keller as
King Hildebrand; Lisa Carr and
Beth Briggs, alternately cast as
Lady Blance; and Kathy Als-
brooks as Lady Psyche.

Reservations for the the two
performances may be made by
calling the theatre office at
463-8637 weekdays between 10
a.m. and 4 p.m.

Five additional performances
will be given from May 21 to May
25 at Mary Baldwin’s Fletcher
Collins Theatre.

An ecumenical Peace Pentecost
Community Service will be con-
ducted Sunday at 7:30 p.m. at St.
Patrick’s Catholic Church. The
service is sponsored by the Rock-
bridge Area Peace Pentecost
Steering Committee and is open to
the public. The sermon will be
delivered by the Rev. James
Lewis of Charleston, W.Va., ex-

CLASSIFIEDS |

ecutive director of the We.
Virginia Coalition for the Hom °
less. Hi

Applications for chairman « 4
the Student Telephone Union ar.’
being taken in Carol Calkins’ of
fice through Tuesday. For further
information, contact Tom O’Brier
at 463-8580. The application need
not be any more than a name and
any qualifications the applicant
thinks are relevant.

Mr. J.T. Bishop, Registrar of
the School of Oriental and African
Studies of the University of Lon-
don, will meet with any students
interested in working in any facet
of Asian and/or African subjects
at SOAS in London for a term, a
junior year or for graduate credit.
He will be in Room 27B of New-
comb Hall tomorrow from 2 to 3
p.m.

 

QQ

BORDEN
COMMONS

 

The Ideal Investment

For

Alumni, Parents of Students and Real Estate Investors

Baker Real Estate announces a new offering in Phase II of Borden Com-
mons near Washington and Lee Campus, offers affordable, cost-efficient
housing for students and young professionals, and like Phase I will rapidly

Scheduled for occupancy Fall Semester 1986, pre-construction reservations
are being taken now. 90% financing available to qualified purchases. On-
site management is available through Baker Real Estate.

One bedroom with fully equipped kitchens, central air and plenty of

MARKETED BY

Baker Real Estate
Lexington, Virginia
703-463-7319

 

Dick Emrey
463-4362
Evenings

 

/SAC votes
against

late Rush

By DUDLEY LEE
Staff Reporter

 

The possibility of delayed fraterni-
ty Rush at Washington and Lee
received another setback last week
when the Student Affairs Committee
voted against the proposal.

Junior Chris Saxman, Interfrat
nity Council president and sae
member, said the tendency of many
fraternities to break Rush regula-
tions was a major reason for the com-
mittee’s refusal to change the Rush
arrangements.

“If we act more responsibly, this
won't happen next year,”’ Saxman
said. The failure of fraternities to
abide by the Rush rules may cause
the IFC to take action to stop “dirty”
Rush next year, Saxman said.

Dan N. Murphy, associate dean 0’
students for fraternity affairs and
also a member of the SAC, said he
voted against delayed Rush because |
it would cause complications.

“With the changes in the nature of
the school and the change in my posi-
tion, it is not the time for that kind of
dramatic change,” Murphy said. /
“Regular and delayed Rush both’
have their advantages, but we are
still adjusting.”

Murphy is leaving his position as
fraternity dean this summer to work &
full-time in the W&L admissions of-
fice, a job he currently does part-
time. His replacement has not been
hired,

Student reaction to the SAC deci-
s10n is varied.

Freshman Will Arvin, who pledged
Sigma Alpha Epsilon this fall, favors
delayed Rush, “The whole purpose of
the fraternity is to allow the person to
be with the people he enjoys,” Arvin
Said. ‘Too many nervous freshmen,
as well as the fraternity boys, feel the
necessity to play social games.”

Freshman Tom Flournoy, wh?
pledged Beta Theta Pi, also said he is
for delayed Rush. “It is too bad that |
delayed Rush was voted down,” he
Said. “Hopefully it will come uP
again for deliberation next year.”

Some students said they are happy
with the current Rush system. “I like
having Rush early because it gets the
freshmen immediately involved,

 

Said sopho f Kappa
Albha” more Sean Coyle, of Kap:

ae Si -
nner y ‘ ssaitaiclabiettl
he ta ead ah ne on

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

The Washington and Lee lacrosse
team Saturday dropped its eighth
game of the season at the University
of Maryland-Baltimore County, a
team that had a year remarkably
similar to the Generals’. The loss set
W&L’s record at 5-8 and wrapped up
their fourth consecutive sub-.500
year.

Both the Generals and the Retrie-
vers entered the game with losing
records, but both also had faced stiff
competition. Five of the Generals’
eight losses came at the hands of
ranked foes in either Division I or
Division III. Similarly, all seven of
UMBC’s losses were handed it by op-
ponents ranked in the top 15 of Divi-
sion I.

In Baltimore last weekend, the
Generals were in control of the game
for most of the first half. They had
built a 5-2 lead by midway through
the second quarter on the strength of

 

r eS

WA&L Sports Information

 

@ mnis Daly: ‘Maybe we lost our confidence, maybe our play.”

  

senior attackman Billy Holmes’ two
goals.

“In the first half our defense neg-
ated what UMBC wanted to do,”’ said
W&L head coach Dennis Daly. “We
were able to take the ball away from
them and our transition cleared
well.”

The Generals success, however,
was shortlived.

The Retrievers pulled to within
one, 6-5, at the intermission and con-
tinued their assault into the second
half.

Outscoring the Generals 7-1 in the
third quarter and 5-1 in the fourth,
the Retrievers dominated the second
half to close out their season with a
victory.

UMBC’s Mark Malczewski scored
four of his six goals during the third-
quarter attack.

“They made some very good ad-
justments [in the second half],’’ said

Daly. ‘‘They forced us into a defense
that we did not want toplay.”

Saturday's loss marked the end of
a season that began in optimism but
ended in dissappointment.

After winning four of their first
seven games, the Generals were rid-
ing high, and there was even talk of
earning a bid to the NCAA champion-
ship tournament.

Beginning at spring break, though,
the Generals went into a tailspin, los-
ing five of their last six and dashing
any hopes of a winning season.

Daly noted that the season seemed
to have two parts. The first he
characterized as ‘‘full of optimism,
confidence and consistency,’ while
the second, he said, displayed a lack
of consistency

“Something happened in the sec-
ond half,” said Daly. ‘ ““Maybe we
lost our confidence, maybe our
play.”

“We had a similar problem last
year but we thought that we had solv-
edit,” said Daly.

 

Tennis

C Continued from Page I

Krieger's words are given support
by the Generals’ performance on the
way to the championship match. In
Monday's quarterfinal against
eighth-ranked Washington Universi-
ty, W&L handled the Bears, 8-1. The
only W&L loss was at No. 1 singles,
where David McLeod was defeated
by Duncan Seay, the nation’s No. 5-
ranked player.

Tuesday’s semifinal tested the
mettle of the Generals and the
challenge was well met. Facing the
No, 2 squad in the nation, Whitman
College (a school that had a 21-2
record and had not lost a Division III
match all season.’’ W&L’s depth pro-
ved its strength as it won three-set
matches at the bottom four singles
flights and the bottom two doubles
flights to claim the upset.

But the Generals cannot rest on
their success in the team competition
too long. The individual singles and
doubles play began this afternoon.
W&L’s top four singles players and
top two doubles teams are slated to

 

  

E

e
k

| When donkeys fly

st ~~ Soe

 

ee eee
a

 

.... Things that will happen if the

USFL wins its suit with the NFL:

TIME Donkeys will fly; the NBA Draft Lot-

7... tery will be fair; and made-for-tv

: movies like “Second Serve’ will be

given their proper place in the pro-

gram schedule, right after late

night/early morning ‘‘Mission Im-
possible” reruns.

s So, the USFL, a.k.a. Donald

‘Trump, is really going througn with this $1.32 billion (no typo) an-

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

“’“titrust suit. The claim is that because it is such a potential media

blockbuster, the USFL feels betrayed that none (we’re talking all
“ three and ESPN, kids) of the major networks was interested in offer-
‘ing the extended mini-series known as a professional football league a
contract for its new fall season. Don and Co. are crying ‘‘Foul!”’ or
ae “Monopoly!” and actually think they can win the case against
the NFL.

The whole thing, obviously, is rather ridiculous. I mean does the
word “merger” mean anything to anyone? Yet, the USFL-types not
only are saying the NFL is an illegal monopoly, but also they are
assuming that there are people who are actually interested in watch-
ing the USFL on television. Think about this person who watches the
USFL. Indeed, I believe we are talking about a separate species of the
human race.

Try to picture this guy (women do not watch the USFL). First of all,
we're talking about the paradigm couch potato. This clown also
regularly watches ‘The A-Team” and thinks it’s real. He was surpris-
ed to learn that Billy Carter was not a cabinet member during the Jim-
my administration. He believes Nikolai Volkov is a communist and is
actually singing the Russian national anthem before his wrestling
matches. He makes most of his purchases from toll-free telephone
numbers. He watches ESPN, but only for the roller derby.

And this is the body-type the USFL thinks is worth a billion-and-a-
third. There’s no monopoly. It’s just that ABC, NBC and CBS aren't all
that enthused about the USFL as a solid draw. As mentioned earlier,
it’s not all that unreasonable to suggest that Trump and friends are
trying to find some way to get their teams into the NFL.

Frankly, I don’t think Pete ‘Beat Me, Whip Me, Make Me Wear a
‘Headband” Rozelle and the rest of the league are interested in expan-
sion, let alone expansion in the form of teams that don’t even have a
home town. (Is it the College Park Stars, or is that just where they
play their games? The New York-Jersey Giants/Jets are enough,
thank you very much.)

It would be a great service to mankind if Federal Judge Peter
Leisure would toss this suit out of court on grounds that it’s too silly to
take up his time for the next two months. But then, other than gradua-
tion, I could use a good extended laugh to start my summer. I wonder
how this will stack up to the von Bulow trial...

....Dancing down the Colonnade, hats off to an exceptional perfor-
mance at nationals by the W&L netmen. This team has established
itself as a force in Division III, and with the top five players all return-
ing plus another good recruiting year, I expect this type of showing
could become a regular thing...A hearty congratulations to golfer

is reg Wheeler on being selected for next week’s national champion-

ships. Indeed, a just reward to a long-time quality per-
former...Triathlon is all set for this Saturday. Should be a good show.
You will be awed...

secs Noticed the other day that the only horses not on drugs finished
1-2 at the Derby. I wonder if the same is true of the NHL. Oh well, give
Sports Hlustrated time...Where did all those reborn Cleveland Indians’
fans go, all of a sudden?...What does John McEnroe, Sr., mean by say-
ing son John’s too busy for the French Open and Wimbledon this year?

’ This whole vacation gambit is starting to smack of a new version of
‘Bye Bye Borgy....

....Finally, CBS is thinking what a wonderful idea it would be to
make The Lottery its own show. Why not? Then it can encourage more
teams to have lotteries, and then you'll have lotteries to get in The Lot-
tery. But then all of this nonsense comes courtesy of the network that
figured the odds of winning The Lottery were one in 5,040 and not one
in seven....

 

Breathless

W&L Triathlon is like a continuous two-hour workout

 

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

Imagine swimming, biking and running all in
the same day. For most of us that would be a load,
but for a select few in the Lexington community it
will be a good two hours work Saturday morning
when the W&L Army ROTC conducts the third an-

 

 

 

 

Message To Seniors

Cap and gown will be distributed starting Mon-
day, May 26 from 10 a.m. to1 p.m. A $30.00

deposit is refundable on the day of GRADUA-

 

TION only. Ala Carte Pricing
No reservations. Reservations Suggested—
Call 463.6693

 

nual W&L Triathlon to honor Armed Forces Day.

All this swimming-biking-running hysteria
started back in 1978 in Hawaii when someone felt
that there wasn’t enough out there in the world to
challenge an athlete and decided to create the
ultimate competition. The result was the ominous
sounding Ironman Triathlon World Champion-
ships.

From the beginning, the Ironman contest at-

ils

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear

Left to right, Page Remillard, David Lewis and Bob Woofter at last year’s triathlon

    
   
 
  
 

New Hours

  
  

HISTORIC
COUNTRY
INNS

 
  
 

Wednesday-Saturday: 5:00-10:00
Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00

NEW EXPANDED MENU

  

Phone: 463-3614

 

compete.

tracted a unique sort of crowd. Only 15 men show-
ed up for the first race. Since then, however, the
sport has grown to the point where over 1,000
racers compete annually in the sport’s original
event.

Arguably the most demanding physical and
mental test for an athlete, the triathlon can in-
clude two-mile swims, 100-mile or more bike rides
and full-fledged marathons. At this level, com-
pleting the race often can take over eight hours.

W&L’s version of the triathlon has been scaled
down toa less ultrahuman level so it can be finish-
ed. Even so, the entire course still will take most
people an hour-and-a-half to complete.

The scaled-down W&L course includes a 1500-
yard swim, a 13.1-mile bike ride and a 3.1-mile
run.

Sounds easy, right? Well, before you hop on the
new Schwinn, think again.

“It’s like working out continuously for two
hours,” said W&L Athletic Director William
McHenry, a three-time participant in the W&L
race. “You never have a chance to catch your
breath.”

McHenry said that the good swimmers have an
edge on the rest of the field. “‘They gain almost a
10-minute advantage,”’ he said.

This is just the type of news that freshman Stu
Sheldon wants to hear. Sheldon, a member of the
water polo and swimming teams, is entering for
the challenge but is receiving plenty of motivation
from a ‘‘friendly competition’ with teammate
David Lewis, a senior who finished second in last
year’s event.

““My main reason for doing this is to try to beat
Dave,’’ Sheldon said.

According to his designated “‘helper’”’ Kathleen
Plante, Lewis is taking on some intense training.

“Dave really wanted to work on his running,”
Plante — substituting for Lewis who was out of
town — explained, ‘‘so he has been running six
miles a day.”

Lewis, who faded in last year’s running portion,
has also included in his training schedule one mile
of swimming a day and 10 miles of biking every
other day, Plante said.

The triathlon is a non-profit event and, accor-
ding to organizer Maj. Jan Gabrielson, it barely
breaks even. ‘We pretty much do this just to hold
a triathlon and to get people interested in it,”
Gabrielson said.

The triathlon will begin with the first heat of the
swimming at 9:15 a.m. on Saturday.

T-shirts and certificates will be given to those
who compete and finish the race. Plaques will be
awarded for the winners in each of the four age
and sex categories. People can register until 9
a.m. on Saturday.

EAST LEX

Open ‘til midnite

US 11 North

 

 

SERVICITAR.

 

Stroh’s Long necks
Natty Bo ong necks

 

 

23 S. Main
IME jee. Strat Lem of Al Natu waar || J&B Office Supply
463-3338 .

 

 

Cocktails@® Wine® Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

New Line of Computer Supplies including:

© Ribbons
© Diskettes
© Printout Paper

Hours:
Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

Get the jump
on your 1986-87

subscription!
Call 463-8581

Come by for exam supplies, on sale through May 30,
and don’t forget your graduation gifts.

 

   
-BACK PAGE

 

Senior directs winning ‘Season’

 

By JIM MORGAN
Staff Reporter

 

“That Championship Season’’
finished its three-day run at the
University Theatre Saturday night.

Directed by Greg Stites as his
senior drama thesis, this gripping
play demonstrated the testing of four
members of a state high school
basketball championship team and
their coach at their 20th reunion. The
theme also revolved around the con-
flict between the importance of the
championship and the harsh facts of
life that middle-aged men must face.

The athletes in the play have main-
tained their friendships despite pur-
suing different lifestyles and occupa-
tions. These enduring friendships are
pushed to the edge by the betrayal
and distrust that surfaces at the reu-
nion.

The cast of five — seniors Ned
Richardson, David Marsh and Mark
McDonough and freshman Barney
March as the players and senior
Chris Carmouche as the coach — por-
trayed the frustrations and loss of
confidence masterfully. Their verbal
battles had the audience siding with
one character and then another, as
attitudes and circumstances chang-
ed.

The four players were able to get
across the distance their different oc-
cupations had driven between them.
March played a politician, Marsh a
public servant who aspired to
politics, McDonough an alcoholic,
and Richardson a business ex-
ecutive.

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

your head

for my business

  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

  

By Cotton Puryear

Seniors Chris Carmouche and Ned Richardson performing ‘‘That Championship Season”’

OY

 

11:00 a.m.

  
   

following worship)

 

 

165 S. Main

 

faffonerEY bite Florist

April Showers?

No, May Flowers!

463-9152

 

 

 

- PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy’
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

e Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

e Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to

go.

 

 

« Each Wednesday night,
§:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only '3.49. Children under 6
years-99

 

 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

 

$9 OFF

I

|

| 2. offans large pizza
| or $1 off any medium. In
|

|

|

I

cludes Pizza Hut’ Pan

Pizza' Hurry. offer ex

pires soon One coupon

per party per visitat ut
participating Pizza Hut’

1 restaurants

| Please present coupon when ordering. Not valid in combination with another
i ctter. 20 cent cash redemption value. 1983 Pizza Hut, inc. Good only through

yr ig

 
 

 

$ 4 OFF
2 Offer

|
|
|
= |
600 E. Nelsonst. @Xpires |
|

May
i

i

i

Lexington, VA
463-7000
31,
1986

   

(Students Dutch-treat lunch

Pentecost Sunday

Lexington Presbyterian Church

Joinus
for
reat! Worship and Celebration
7. 4 including
The Lord’s Supper
Sunday, May 18, 1986 J

S

Pentecost

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

ONCAMPUS

Tonight
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘The Mouse That Roared.”” Room
327, Commerce SChool
7 p.m. — FILM: “Not A Love Story.” A film about pornography.
Followed by an open discussion. Northen Auditorium.

Friday, May 16
2 p.m. — STUDY ABROAD Informational Meeting: African and Asian
studies in London, England. J.T. Bishop, School of Oriental and
African Studies, University of London. Room 27B. Commerce School.
7:30 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: “Moscow Does Not Believe in
Tears.” Northen Auditorium, University Library.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘The Stains.” G.H.Q.

Saturday, May 17
9a.m.— THIRD ANNUAL W&L TRIATHLON. Warner Center.
8 p.m. — PLAY: “Princess Ida,’’ by Gilbert and Sullivan. W&L Glee
Club & Mary Baldwin College Theatre and Choir. University Theatre.

Sunday, May 18
3p.m.— CONCERT: The Ryan Family. Lee Chapel.
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘Princess Ida’’ University Theatre.

Monday, May 19
7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILMS SERIES:
‘Harp of Burma.”’ Room 327, Commerce School.

Tuesday, May 20
7 p.m. — LECTURE: “Advertising Today.” Allen G. Rosenshine,
BBDO International. Room 327, Commerce School.

Wednesday, May 21
7p.m.— POLITICS FILMFEST: “Tora, Tora, Tora.’ Room 327, Com-
merce School.
8 p.m, — LECTURE: ‘‘Ancient Historiography: Truth, Fiction, and
Something in Between.” Christopher Pelling, University College, Ox-

 

 

Enjoy medical
coverage despite

short-term
problems.

If you‘re just out of school. Drop-
ping off a family plan. Between jobs.
Or on: the move and between
group medical plans. Atna’s new
Short-Term Medical Insurance is tai-
lored just for you. . . and at a rea-
sonable cost. Contact us for further
information today.

Morrison & Agnor, Inc.

29 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
463-4411

Fi

Atna Lite insurance and Annuity Company, Hartford. CT 06156

 

ford. Northen Auditorium, University Library.

 

 

 

 

 

Author speaks

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Critically acclaimed author Peter Taylor gives a reading of his work last +
Tuesday in Northen Auditorium. Taylor was recently awarded the coveted
PEN/Faulkner award for his work ‘“‘The Old Forest and Other Stories.”

The author read selections from “In the Miro District” and ‘‘Presence.”’

f

Mixed Minks poke fun -

at W&L coeducation

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

K
*
*
+
+
+
¥
+
*
x
*
o
*
w
*
¥
*
*
*
*
*
*
+
*
*

OOOO OI COE

Sidewalk
Sale

Tuesday, May 20th 10-3
(Raindate Wed, May 21st

At The W&L Bookstore

New Stuff
Manager’s Mistake
Many New Bargain Books
Broken Sizes

Giant Bubble Makers

Fun

All Sales Final!
WL a Ok Ot ak Oa Ot Ot Ot

«
x
5 4
x

¥
&
oe
*
we
&
x
©
.
*
*
K
¥
*
«
x
*
«€
*
*«
co

 

“Why Can’t a Woman Be More
Like A Man’’ and ‘‘I Hate Men” are
just two of the many songs that the
new musical comedy group The Mix-
ed Minks will sing at its May 23 debut
performance.

The group was founded on an in-
spiration by Fine Arts Professor
Albert C. Gordon, who wanted to
utilize the female theatrical talent on
campus. He started the group, which
consists of three women, Jenny Wise,
Elizabeth Fowler and Susan Crouse;
three men, Louis Cella, Greg Luns-
ford and Craig M. Smith; and an ac-
companist, Valerie Pierson. Most of
the members have been active in
theater or acting classes and were
acquainted with Gordon or someone
in the department.

‘

Gordon hopes the group, wilhse
members are all under undergrad-
uates, will continue next year. The *
group may hold auditions in the fall ,
to replace or add members.

The group has been practicing dai-
ly since the second week of the term *
to prepare for its performance next ,
Friday for a program honoring
the school’s Lee Associates. ‘Ihe *
show will be a 24-minute comedy pro- ,
duction dealing with coeducation and
most likely will be its only show this
spring. Next fall, the group plans to *
perform during homecoming.

Gordon said he would like to

broaden the group to have it include ‘
scenes from musical comedies as
well as singing.
Pierson commented that it was en- '
joyable but also ‘‘a lot of work right
now because it is in the beginning
stages, and [we’re] trying to get it
together ina short amount of time.”’

For Rent
Large House In The Country
Call

463-2518

 

a ES

By Appointment
463-9588

Robin * Peggy * Marie * Sherry

a Lm

PUR nny
Card

463-9588
OCR ETS ae ELL
Lexington, VA 24450

Valley True Value Hardware

Hardware, Paint & Related lfems

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

Mon.-Sat, 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5
