 

 

       
   

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 18

Champion
Miles leads nation
in 500-yard free

Page 7

 

 

Chaplain

 

VMI’s Caudill

counsels cadets
Page 4

 
  
   

 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA 24450 _4

 

 

 

Your Mid-Winter Weekend weather

Chance of rain Saturday;
Overcast skies Sunday

 

Che King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

ee of
By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

The Commissioner (senior Chris Carmouche) squares off with Lysistrata
(Associate Dean of the College Pamela Simpson) in a scene from the Greek
comedy ‘‘Lysistrata.’’ The Washington and Lee Theatre production is
directed by Al Gordon, who describes the play as similar to a ‘‘Saturday
Night Live’’ skit in the way it spoofs contemporary issues. The show runs
from tomorrow night until Feb. 12 at the Troubador Theatre. Curtain time is
8 p.m., and a 3 p.m. matinee is schedule for Sunday. For reservations, call

463-8637.

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

 

The Student Control Committee
will not get the non-voting woman
member it expected, the Executive
Committee voted Monday.

The EC voted 8-3-1 not to create
such a position. This vote came just
hours after the faculty gave it the
permission to decide the issue. The
faculty also had almost overwhelm-
ingly recommended approval of the
female appointment in a 90-8 infor-
mal vote, according to EC President
John Lewis.

The EC had voted to create a posi-
tion for a female ad hoc non-voting
member to the SCC Dec. 9, but ac-
cepted no applications because it

Minorities

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

 

Representatives of the Minority
Student Association on Monday peti-
tioned the Executive Committee to
place a non-voting minority member
on the Student Control Committee.

The EC voted 7-3-2 to delay a vote
on the proposal until next week to
gather more information and views
on the subject.

Leading off a nearly two-hour
debate, senior and MSA member
William Rhinehart read a petition
containing over 30 signatures that
called for the creation of a position
for a minority to advise the commit-
tee in cases involving minority
students as victims or defendants.

Three MSA members attended the
meeting, along with two other mino-

wasn’t sure it had the power to make
such an appointment.

After that original vote, SCC Chair-
man Townes Pressler appeared in
front of the EC saying he had ‘‘misre-
presented the views”’ of the commit-
tee members when he said they were
in favor of a female ad hoc position
being created. The SCC later voted
10-1-1 that it was against the appoint-
ment of an ad hoc woman.

Lewis said he felt the SCC vote and
further discussion between the EC
members and the advocates of the
position were the reasons for the
earlier decision being overturned.

Here is how the EC came to the
final vote:

Freshman representative Matt
Bryant first made a motion to re-
scind the earlier vote. This vote was

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

passed 9-3.

Senior representative Michael
Black then moved that a vote be
taken to appoint a woman ad hoc non-
voting member to the SCC. He later
withdrew this motion.

As Black withdrew his motion,
Vice President Andrew Caruthers
motioned to create the position, as
Black had. This motion was defeated,
3-8-1.

First-year law representative Bill
Senft said the reversal of the earlier
vote would put the committee in a
bad light.

“T think the student body expects
you to stand by your vote,”’ he said.

But sophomore representative Pat
Schaefer said a position such as this
would not help the unity of the cam-
pus. “‘It’s a divisive thing,”’ he said.

FEBRUARY 6, 1986

EC votes down SCC woman

FreshmanValerie Pierson, who at-
tended Monday’s vote, later had
angry words about the EC’s decision.

“It really makes me mad,” she
said.

She said the delays and the rescind-
ed vote has had ill effects on the stu-
dent’s perception of the EC, especial-
ly female students who were in favor
of the ad hoc position.

“They've lost a lot of faith in the
EC,” she said. “I guess like me
they’re disappointed that they just
won’t listen.”

“People are amazed at the incon-
sistency of the EC,” she added. ‘I’ve
seen a side of them I haven’t seen
before.”’

Pierson said she was in favor of the
position to ‘‘lend a better perception
of fairness’ to the SCC.

ask for ad hoc representative

rity students and Associate Dean of
Students for Minority Affairs Anece
F. McCloud.

An ad hoc minority member, the
group said, would be “more sensi-
tive’ to the feelings and viewpoints
of minority students appearing in
front of the SCC.

“We have to institute a mechanism
to ensure that everybody is treated
fairly,” junior Everett Hamilton
said.

Hamilton said a case in which a
misunderstanding could occur is the
different connotations of the Con-
federate flag. Hamilton said he has
been told by white students that the
flag is a sign of rebellion, but he
pointed out that to blacks it repre-
sents a ‘‘symbol of hatred.”

“Tf I came to my room and some-
one had a Confederate flag on my
room door, it would freak me out,”’ he

W&L studying curriculum expansion

 

 

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

 

As part of an ongoing process of re-
examining Washington and Lee’s
curriculum, administrators are stu-
dying faculty committee reports de-
signed to locate fields of study that
warrant further University funding
and development.

The administration, according to
Dean of the College John W. Elrod,
began this most recent curriculum
review last spring with an examina-
tion of East Asian studies, cognitive
psychology and public policy, a pro-
gram that would be handled in the
Commerce School.

In January, four separate commit-
tees were formed to examine W&L’s
curriculum in the areas of Russian
studies, computer-enhanced foreign
language study, the fine arts and the
so-called ‘‘Capstone’’ programs of
advanced learning.

Each of those four committees sub-
mitted a report to Elrod this week
after the completion of the month-
long studies.

Elrod said that because the
school’s resources for curriculum
development are limited, it will not
be possible to implement all the pro-
grams being studied. He added that
the programs are all on equal footing
as far as continued consideration is
concerned,

University President John D.
Wilson equated the process of devel-

oping the curriculum with what he
called the ‘‘kerosene theory.”’

“If you see a spark,” he said, ‘‘you
throw kerosene on it and see if it'll
catch.”

Wilson added that there must be __

INSIDE

*The Virginia Horse Center, which was expected to be an economic
boon to Rockbridge County, didn’t receive funding in the state budget
for this year, but its proponents are still hopeful, page 4

*Something new”’

¢Thank you for using AT&T,” say Lexington operators. But do you

have a choice? page 3

are the watchwords for the first Mid-Winter
Weekend, which kicks off tomorrow evening in the pavilion, page 8

sufficient ‘‘kerosene,’’ or resources,
to ignite a spark of interest in any
particular area.

One of the topics Elrod asked a
committee to examine last month
was the prospect of building a Rus-
sian studies program at W&L. The
chairman of that committee, History
Professor Lamar J.R. Cecil Jr., said
the group surveyed existing courses
at W&L to determine how such a pro-
gram would fit in here.

The study focused on the Russian
programs at 10 schools comparable
to Washington and Lee in size and
facilities. Cecil said the schools in-
cluded Tufts University, Bowdoin
College, Brown University, Ran-
dolph-Macon College in Ashland,
University of Richmond and Hollins
College.

In its report, the group listed
several areas in which it found W&L
to be lacking in its approach to the
study of Russia. Most important
among these is the study of the Rus-
sian language beyond the second
year, Cecil said. The courses current-
ly offered here stress grammar but
neglect literature, he added.

Other areas of study where W&L
would need some improvement if a
comprehensive Russian studies pro-
gram were to be implemented in-
clude: geography, Marxism as a
political ideology, the Russian Or-
thodox religion, Soviet economics,
and a systematic study of Russian
art, theater and music.

The report was not a detailed
recommendation, Cecil stressed. In
fact, the only recommendation of
curriculum change made in the
report was the addition of further
language work.

 

 

Although Cecil said he expected
issues such as funding, faculty hiring
and catalog adjustments might pose
problems he was enthusiastic about
the possibility of starting a Russian
studies program at W&L.

“T think it’s something we ought to
have,” he said. “I’m very much in
favor of it.”

The place of Russian studies in
university programs has shifted over
the years, Cecil said. In the Cold War
period, some historians allowed gov-
ernment policy to dictate their teach-
ing to some degree. In later years,
this point of view faded, only to resur-
face to some extent in the 1970s.

Cecil said he would be surprised if
Russian studies return fully to the
point at which they were in the Cold
War. He said historians and acade-
mics in general are not as likely to be
influenced by government policy as
they once were.

Russian studies programs have en-
joyed resurgence in some schools in
recent years, Cecil said. One exam-
ple is Columbia University, which
established a program after receiv-
ing a $10 million grant from Averell
Harriman former U.S. ambassador
to Russia.

Albert C. Gordon, professor of fine
arts, chaired the committee that
studied the curriculum in that de-
partment. He said there were several
areas in which stildy of the arts could
be enhanced.

In the art department, Gordon
said, the group recommended the ad-
dition of one or two staff members,
particularly someone to serve as
director of the duPont gallery.

The University has plans for a new
theater building, and this is first on
the list of improvements in the

theater department. Gordon said his
committee recommended an_in-
crease in theater staff and facilities,
including a costume shop.

In music study, Gordon said the
committee recommended strength-
ening the existing program.

Student interest is one of the major
criteria used in deciding which areas
to investigage, Wilson said, adding
that other criteria include the
availability of grant money from cer-
tain foundations, deficiencies that
may exist in current W&L programs,
and the creation of new fields of
knowledge, such as computer
science.

(See Expansion, Page 5

 

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

 

Computer-assisted instruction
is an emerging facet of foreign
language study at Washington and
Lee that promises to put .the
school on what one administrator
calls the ‘‘cutting edge of the field.

The Romance language depart-
ment, under the direction of As-
sociate Professor Russell C.
Knudson and Foreign Language
Instructor Kathy Jo Koberstein,
started a program last year that
makes use of computers in sev-
eral French classes.

Knudson heads a committee to

 

said. ‘“‘That would seriously affect
me,’’ he said. ‘‘Whereas with a white
student, they could not really under-
stand that.”’

‘“‘A minority in an ad-hoc position
could maybe sensitize that group to
that fact,’’ Hamilton concluded.

“These are things as ethnic minori-
ties we can sort of empathize with
more,” he explained.

Senior Representative Tony Mc-
Cann, who was a member of the SCC
until he filled an opening on the EC
created when Secretary Michael
Webb resigned, said there is ample
time to express the idea of cultural
misunderstandings during the SCC’s
hearing session. McCann said the
SCC members take this testimony in-
to account with the case is decided.

“T think they can make a good deci-
sion,”’ he said. ‘I’m not sure they
cannot see what you’re trying to get

 

 

Computers: New part of the program

JOHN W. ELROD

 

evaluate continued development
of these programs at W&L.

The first responsibility, Knud-
son said, was to define the
strengths and weaknesses of com-
puters in the language program at
WA&L. From his work with compu-
ters in his French 160 class, Knud-
son said he was pleased with the
results.

“It worked out very well, better
then we expected,” he said. ‘‘The
reaction of the students was good
and their grades were very high.”’

Interest from students and
other faculty members and a
grant from the University has en-

(See Language, Page 5

 

 

Trustees to study money matters

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

out the year will be defined. Those expenses include pos-
sible new faculty and staff appointments and adjust-

 

Limits on financial aid allotments and a tuition in-
crease will be among the topics discussed at this week-
end’s Board of Trustees meeting, according to University

President John D. Wilson.

Financial matters will dominate most of the discus-
sions at the Board’s sessions, including a preliminary
budget report of the year, Wilson said. Tuition and the
financial aid program are two areas Wilson said must be

firmed up this weekend

In addition, Wilson said, patterns for expenses through-

ments regarding present staff.

Other topics Wilson said the Board will consider in-

clude construction of the new dormitory and 32 Universi-
ty Place, the future home of the admissions office

A committee that has studied Washington and Lee’s in-
vestments in South Africa is scheduled to report to the
board and may make recommendations, Wilson said

Student Body President John B. Lewis is scheduled to
address the Board’s Campus Life Committee on Friday
and to meet with the full board on Saturday. He said he
plans to speak on ‘‘every facet of student life,’’ placing
emphasis on the Honor System

 

across.”

Hamilton said the ad-hoc position
was most vital to give insight during
the deliberation of the case, when the
minority is not present and cultural
misunderstandings could occur.
“There are different types of small
group dynamics that take place,” he
said.

The petition outlined three reasons
that the minority position should be
created:

eThe minority would make the SCC
more representative of the racial
make-up of the school.

*Because of the way the members
of the committee are selected, there
is little chance that a minority would
be elected to one of the positions ‘“‘in
the foreseeable future.’’ The SCC is
composed of the presidents and vice

(See Minorities, Page 5

Program
delays
retirement

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

 

Washington and Lee recently an-
nounced a retirement program that
will allow senior faculty members to
remain in the classroom on a part-
time basis past the normal retire-
ment age of 65.

Those faculty members who agree
to enter the program are shifted toa
half-time teaching load, drawing
three-quarters of their salary during
the first year of the program. In sub-
sequent years they are paid one-half
of their original salary.

The program provides for the hir-
ing of a junior faculty member to
complete the senior professor's
course load.

Dean of the College John W. Elrod
explained two advantages of the pro-
gram.

“The senior faculty is one of our
most valued resources,’’ he said. He
added that the program is intended to
“encourage senior people to stay
on.

Elrod said the program’s purpose
is to allow professors who might not
choose to continue to teach under the
normal course load to remain in the
classroom up to the age of 70.

English Professor Sidney M. B.
Coulling noted that W&L’s faculty is
relatively small and that ‘‘within the
next ten years, 40 of us will retire.
The fear is this will cause discon-
tinuity.”’

The other advantage Elrod noted is
that the new program would allow in-
dividual department heads to give
new faculty members a reduced load
and allow them more time to prepare
their courses.

Another aim of the program is that
the senior faculty member would
become the junior member’s mentor.
Elrod said this arrangement would
give the new teacher ‘‘the opportuni-
ty to learn from someone experienc-
ed and wise in teaching.”’

Coulling said it is important for
new faculty members to ‘‘understand
how we do things at W&L.”’

The entry date for participation in
the program is when the professor
turns 66 years of age
7

yrigh

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986

 

Barriers

Remember how in second grade, if you didn’t get picked
for a kickball game, it didn’t do much for your social stand-
ing to have the playground teacher come over and put you on-
toa team anyway?

Accompanied by Anece F.. McCloud, the associate dean of
students for minority affairs, a group of students on Monday
asked the Executive Committee to appoint a non-voting min-
ority representative to the Student Control Committee.

This is a classic case of the proposed solution making an
undesirable situation even worse than it already is. Although
well-intentioned, this administrator is handing minorities the
gun to shoot themselves in the foot.

For starters, the idea of a group of black students going to
Great White Father Behind the Horseshoe and begging for
a handout is offensive and outmoded. This is the Couthe but
this is also the 1980s, and one would hope society has progres-
sed somewhat beyond that approach to problems.

Additionally, we find offensive and appalling the absolute
lack of manners displayed at times by participants in the
meeting. When we took note of the unprofessional behavior of
a faculty member at the EC debate on the ad hoc female
member for the SCC, we hoped that would be the exception to
the rule. Such threats were certainly out of place. But Mon-
day, while the conduct may have been overall more civilized,
the frequent interruptions by members of the audience and
the persistent corrections by an administrator of the EC
president’s handling of motions seemed out of place.

We also worry that the issue has become clouded and less-
focused by the freely thrown charges of racism. For us, there
is no doubt that racism exists on this campus, just as it does
on other campuses and in society in general. Because we are
a smaller “‘community,”’ its presence, at times, can be all the
more evident and inexcusable. We find incredible the sugges-
tion by one EC member that he failed to see racism here.
Many minority students cannot enjoy the same colle-
giate experience — or for that matter, the same life after col-
lege — that the typical white male will enjoy. That does not
mean the status quo need remain, however.

At the same time, we fail to see how the racism issue is
even partially corrected, or even addressed, simply by the
placement of a minority student on the SCC. Several ques-
tions arise on this particular matter. Since the EC decided
Monday evening not to place a female ad hoc member on the
SCC — a reversal of its earlier vote — we question why a
minority representative need be there instead. Need a Catho-
lic be afraid of appearing before an all-Protestant SCC? What
about a Jewish student? And were the SCC to be composed
solely of fraternity members, should there also be an ad hoc
member for the sizable independent population?

We also note the charge of complacency that many believe
could result from appointment of such a minority member.
When token representation can always be guaranteed, what
incentive is there for a minority to seek an elected seat? Mike
Webb was elected to his position because he campaigned
hard and sought the secretary’s job with diligence. He over-
came the racial epithets that were thrown in his direction. He
also beat a law student (and several other challengers) who
happened to be white. Some may believe his election a fluke,
but it serves as an example of how racial barriers to elected
offices on this campus can be overcome.

Equally disturbing to us is the case of students who do not
bring cases before the SCC because they believe the SCC will
do nothing about them. That danger can be overcome with
improved communications between the SCC and the student
body. While no one likes to have their dirty laundry hung out,
reporting (in generalities) the SCC’s actions would reinforce
a belief that justice can be accomplished.

Another problem that easily could be corrected is the
perception of fairness. When former SCC member and new
EC member Tony McCann told Everett Hamilton that he
could better appreciate actions Hamilton might take against
people teasing him with the Confederate flag, it became evi-
dent that much of the perceived unfairness and perceived
callousness is exactly that — perceived. The SCC is not a
group of racists waiting to have some minority come before
them only to dismiss the charges as cultural gibberish. And
with the Student Affairs Committee as a recourse for appeal,
should a minority feel that he or she was treated unfairly, we
fail to see how the perception of unfairness persists. No one
should feel comfortable going before the SCC, especially if
that person is guilty. We are afraid that the convenience of
using “‘perceived’’ as a coat of many colors hides the real
issues — namely a lack of knowledge and ineffective com-
munication.

We don’t believe that a minority member would necessari-
ly be in the student body’s best interests, nor necessarily in
the best interests of the minority members in the student
body. The problem of ‘‘perceived’’ @iirness can be overcome
with better communication and sensitivity. Racism, while we
doubt its existence within the disciplinary structure, is in-
deed a reality at Washington and Lee. Unfortunately, there
are no easy solutions for it.

The kid who was jeered and ostracized when the teacher
held his hand and forced him into the kickball game learned
the hard way.

Let’s hope our fellow W&L students don’t have to suffer the
same fate.

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
VOI ois ik i i Mike Allen
PG siete esi Paul Foutch
; Cotton Puryear
WOU oo 65 oooh is ike did nad 0k Shek Reade Williams
MOND IIE 55h os ash cc oehciesnsbnidauss he Mike Stachura
WE iia hick she he akc a Jim Strader
ON iy a heii Steve Sadler
MiMi ca Ler hibiceincs bh OL Matt Horridge

Entertainment Editor Marshall Boswell

 

PRE AWE MRE pc VE isis ies cabvinsvas Jason Lisi
Pe i i i ie David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE

PHP UI I ooo rscesiresicieteccetitieneeensccouicn Nelson Patterson
ANNDUAOS EAOTIA! Pie BAN. gik ow cicie se cccssidicdodccccotccccs Marie Kothman
NR ree pe ey Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF

ec Jeff Kimbell
BIE inc cross chic ceeccekusciiivscccercceneas es Hank Greenberg
ciel s i ciitas hibiebinds John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley

CON 6 i MARA Aa Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.

 

RES ee EA a NE EST ME GRY SSIES PC Ea

a)
y | Went COM
BA winoRint noe

\

 

 

 

 

Poor communication
creates difficulties

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

Washington and Lee is suffering a
failure in communication. As an en-
tering freshman, I expected to stum-
ble around campus a bit, not really
sure of what was going on. But there
seem to be a number of cases in
which situations could have been
made less difficult if only there had
been a little more information com-
ing from the faculty and administra-
tion to the students.

Case in point: During orientation
week, freshmen followed a printed
agenda. The last item listed was a
“class meeting”’ that was to be in Lee
Chapel on the Wednesday of the first
week of classes. The agenda didn’t
offer an explanation, but the rumor
floating around the dorm was that it
had “something to do with honor.”’
Figuring it would take about 20 min-
utes, students turned out in shorts
and T-shirts, carrying armloads of
books. The “class meeting” turned
out to be a two-hour debate on the
Honor System, featuring alumni and
members of the Executive Commit-
tee.

Time rolled around to register for
winter classes. Many freshmen nar-
rowly missed the deadline, not know-
ing they had to talk to their advisers
on a certain day. Many didn’t realize
that they needed to sign up at sep-
arate departments for courses such
as art, history or biology. And how
often I’ve heard, ‘‘So when do we get
our grades?”’

The lack of communication is not
limited only to the administration.
One of the major complaints of those
against an ad hoc female member to
the SCC at the Dec. 9 EC meeting was
that the students didn’t know the pro-
posal had been brought before the
committee until the day of the meet-
ing. The proposal had been tabled
from a previous meeting in order to
get an idea of student opinion. How

Encouraging interest in fine arts

 

to detail some of the local programs
and institutions that bring the arts to
Lexington.

The W&L music department spon-
sors concerts by the Glee Club and
the Univesity Chorus, as well as

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

recitals by talented individual stu-

The main advantage of being an dents. The concerts present a wide

‘supplements liberal education

to ballet to opera can be had from the
RCTS. Thanks to a large contribution
from W&L, we students are admitted
to RCTS concerts free. Alas, the next
offering, the world-famous Joffrey
Ballet, is scheduled for Feb. 16, when
we are on break. Still, RCTS perfor-
mances are definitely worth looking
out for.

could anyone expect to get a good
idea of opinion if the very students
the proposal was designed to help
—the women — didn’t know about it?

Recently, applicants to become
dorm counselors were told they could
pick up application forms from the
office of the Dean of Students start-
ing a certain day, but a deadline to
apply was not posted. Many appli-
cants picked up an application on
Wednesday morning and were told it
was due at noon. They were then told
there would be two interviews, each
held a week apart. After the first in-
terview, the committee changed its
mind about having second inter-
views, but didn’t bother to tell ap-
plicants.

True, all these examples seem tri-
vial as we see shuttle explosions, hi-
jackings and natural disasters. But
each of these experiences could have
been simpler if only there had been a
little better communication.

It all comes down to the fact we
need better ways of communicating.
If every student were to walk into
Dean of Students Lewis G. John’s of-
fice whenever there was a problem
and say, ‘“‘What’s the deal?” the dean
would never have time to do anything
else.

Freshmen, while lacking exper-
ience, have two advantages, News
travels faster in dorms than any-
where else, so usually it eventually
“gets around.”’ But it often gets a
generous helping of rumor mixed in
also. No one is ever really sure of
what’s fact and what’s hearsay. So

what do you do? Ask your dormitory -

counselor. But he often doesn’t know
either.

Dormitory counselors and fraterni-
ty representatives should have some-

one they can meet with in the faculty ©

or administration to get the real
story. That way students would have

someone they can go toto get the real .

story. This system would dispel

much confusion and silence the often- .

heard remark, “‘No one in this school
ever knows what’s going on.”’

SKelley

~~ he * eS Gh he

opinion columnist (and the advan-
tage is heightened if the writer has a
tolerant editor) is that occasionally
one can indulge oneself in a discus-
sion of a pet peeve. That is what this
particular column will do.

A question that I frequently ask
myself is: ‘‘Why are my fellow stu-
dents here at W&L so utterly lacking
in interest for the the arts?” For a
small town, Lexington is blessed with
an abundance of fine cultural events.
Concerts, plays, ballets and even
movies combine to create an atmos-
phere of culture that one could nor-
mally expect to find only in a much
larger city. Surprisingly, few
students take advantage of these
events. Let me take a moment, then,

variety of music from W.A. Mozart to
P.D.Q. Bach. All these concerts take
place in Lee Chapel and are free of
charge.

The W&L Concert Guild brings na-
tionally renowned professional
groups to Lee Chapel. Recent visitors
have included the Juilliard String
Quartet, the finest such group
around, and the vocal ensemble
Quink, which is on its way up in the
musical world. These concerts are
also free to W&L students. The next
performance in this series is schedul-
ed for Thursday, March 6, when the
Audobon String Quartet will appear.

Still more fine artistic events are
provided by the Rockbridge Concert
Theatre Series. Anything from jazz

These are just the highlights of an
impressive range of cultural oppor-
tunites open to all of us at no charge.
Can you think of any reason why you
shouldn’t attend at least some of
these events? After all, one can hard-
ly claim to have had a liberal arts
education if one’s ‘‘cultural night
out’’ consists of listening toa WLUR
disc jockey play Wagner’s “‘Ride of
the Valkyries”’ on the Third Ear rock
show.

I realize that hard-core Philistines
will not be swayed by my plea. How- .
ever, I have the satisfaction of know-
ing that future non-attendance by
W&L students at various artistic
events will be caused by apathy, not
ignorance.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LETTERS

Lewis explains motives behind EC decision

To the editors:

The Executive Committee is the only commit-
tee of its kind in the United States. It is the only
one where the officers of the Student Body are
the officers of the Honor Committee. At all other
colleges they are separate entities. We therefore
stay very busy and very much in touch with stu-
dent opinion, or we are all necessarily involved
in many campus activities,

The vote on Monday which rescinded our ear-
lier opinion on placing a female ad hoc member
on the Student Control Committee was the pro-
duct of better knowledge of student opinion.

Among our many jobs is to make the transition
to coeducation as smooth as possible. We chose
to revote for several reasons.

First, we technically did not have the power to
make the first vote. Secondly, when we did make
that vote, I allowed a proxy vote after a very
heated debate and in a very difficult moment. It
was my call, and as president, I considered it the
best move at that moment. Robert’s Rules of
Order, which the EC uses as its guide, does not
allow the proxy in such cases, however.

Thirdly, student opinion was overwhelmingly
against the move, and we thought that to make
the transition go as smoothly as possible, resent-
ment should not be created among students
through such a move. Additionally, proponents
of the idea had approached the members of the
committee and said that they had changed their
minds on the matter and were no longer for such
a move. Even Professor Jean Dunbar, an early
proponent of the idea, had said during a discus-
sion after the first vote that she was very
Satisfied with the way the SCC had handled a
case involving a woman, a case with which she

as a SAC member was very familiar. Finally, the
SCC had voted 10-1-1 against having a woman ad-
hoc member. To promote harmony on this im-
portant college committee, we decided not to
restructure the SCC against its own will.

Some women had noted at the original meeting
that they did not want one woman representing
the views of all women at W&L. They felt a
danger in having one voice as the authority on
women’s issues. For these reasons and many
others, we chose to reconsider our earlier vote.
We felt that the vote accurately reflected the sen-
timents of the large majority of W&L students.
Since our primary responsibility is to reflect and
act upon student opinion, we chose to act as we
did.

We realize that we will never please all of the
people all of the time because that is the nature
of elected positions. We would therefore appre-
ciate a degree of maturity and understanding
from those who do not believe that we have acted
correctly.

John B. Lewis
Student Body President

Article said in ‘bad taste’

To the editors:

The Ring-tum Phi is not usually on our reading
list, but the Jan. 30 issue proved to be an excep-
tion, The several past issues we have had the op-
portunity to have been excellent publications,
but your article last week by Paul Davey on the
“Fancy Dress season.”’ fell far short of even the

most relaxed journalistic standards.

In particular, references to the students of sur-
roundings women’s institutions as “chicks,”
“merchandise,” and ‘‘commodities” are very in-
sulting. The attitude of the writer indicates that
every woman at every nearby women:s college
has nothing more on her mind than coercing
“one of the South’s finest gentlemen” into giving
her a ‘‘coveted bid”’ to ‘‘the finest social event in
collegiate America.” This is hardly the case!
For several students, some who have attended
Fancy Dress and others who have not, Fancy
oa is low . 3 priority list. More important

e respect of such i
students as Mr. Davey, ee

In closing, we must admit that although Mr.
Davey’s attitude was immediately offensive,
€ven more upsetting was the fact that The Ring-
tum Phi Saw fit to print an article so blatantly
chauvinistic. In the same issue in which the ques-
tionable article was printed, there was another
ae written as an editorial, This editorial ex-
plained the paper's policy on printing student
Opinion, stating, “It must provide a forum for the
Spectrum of student views — whether we agree
. - = as along as they aren’t libelous or in bad
=. We certainly agree with this policy. For

iS reason, we wholeheartedly object to the
printing of the article on Fancy Dress season,

which was in exception
imately 3,114 wana ally bad taste to approx-

Alexandra M. Bernard
Laura Gaye Hand
Anne M. Merriman,
Class of 1986

Sweet Briar College

 

isi

 

 

<n & ££ OC Xe eM. 6G

me

a

x i &

me

*

ob

 

 
4
4
y
a

ay

7

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986

 

AT&T still
Lexington’s
only choice

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

Frequent users of long distance in
Lexington who wish for a cheaper
alternative to AT&T can put those
hopes on hold for at least another
year, according to a Centel
spokesman. /

A spokesman at the Central
Telephone Company’s Charlottes-
ville office, said the firm has receiv-
ed no offers to service the area from
any other long distance company.

“We have received no offers
because these companies are in-
terested in larger metro areas,’’ he
said. The Lexington area does not
have enough potential subscribers to
justify the expense of installing the
necessary equipment, he explained.

The closest city with a choice long
distance companies is Charlottes-
ville, he said, and it is possible that in
the near future some company will
branch out from there.

“It’s very unlikely for the next
year or so,’’ he noted.

Reaction by frequent long distance
users in town to the possibility of an
alternative to AT&T was mixed.

Douglas Roper of the brokerage
firm of Scott & Stringfellow, Inc.,
said, “I’d be happy to see anything
that would bring down rates.”

Frank White, owner of Huffman-
White Florist, said that he would con-
tinue to use AT&T even if another
company became available.

“T would stick with AT&T because
of the service,’ he said, adding that
the shop’s $500 to $900 monthly bill
could be kept down if calls are made
more efficiently.

 

 

Fill ’er up

 

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

“Grades are much too important in
determining a person’s life,’ Univer-
sity of Tennessee Psychology Profes-
sor Howard R. Pollio told a group of
about 15 professors Friday in Tucker
Hall. *

Pollio’s lecture was titled
“Grades: A Tiger Looks at His
Stripes.”’ He said the original title
was ‘‘A Tiger Looks At His Mark-
ings,’’ but that the pun was too ob-
vious.

In the 90-minute presentation,
Pollio offered criticisms of the con-
ventional grading system and ideas
for a new one.

He said grading systems often
reflect the societies they come from.
“The more differentiated the grading
system, the more that society is in-
terested in differentiating people....
In the sixties, grading systems were
simplified. In Reagan’s America,
there is a greater interest in grad-
ing.”

A major focus of Pollio’s criticism
was his view that different grades
represent different standards of
measurement but are presented as
an absolute.

“Grades are the result of decidedly
different instructors in decidedly dif-
ferent disciplines,’ he said.

He was particularly critical of the
grade point average. ‘“‘We shouldn’t
average things that aren’t average-
able, he said. The GPA is ridiculous.

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Ph

Sophomore John Gorlowski gives blood in Warner
Center Tuesday as part of the 1986 Blood Drive. Organi-
zer Jake Squiers said the drive, sponsored by Chi Psi
fraternity, achieved its goal of 150 donations. The ROTC

department won the award for most donations, and Chi
Psi won for greatest percentage of participation. In addi-
tion, Ted LeClereq’s freshman hall will receive $30 of
Domino’s Pizza for the best participation.

It’s a payoff we make to parents.”
Pollio also questioned how accur-

ately grades can predict students,

future success. ‘‘We are a selection

Scholar praises Lee ‘legend’

 

By The Associated Press

 

WILMINGTON, Ohio — The
legends that turned Confederate
leader Robert E. Lee into a post-Civil
War hero also helped unify the nation
that Lee fought to divide, according
toa Wilmington College historian.

“As a legend, Lee did much to
bring the country he fought to
destroy back together,” historian
Vinton Prince said.

The aching nation used Lee as an
acceptable symbol for its suffering
and a means of healing its wounds
after the war, according to Prince.

“In choosing Lee, Americans se-
lected a genuinely great man who
was not threatening to the North...at
least not any longer,’’ Prince said.
“To the South, Lee was an example
of its best characteristics and
motives, to the North, Lee was a
valiant opponent, but one who had
been defeated.”’

Lee has become perhaps the only
figure from the Civil War to ap-
proach Abraham Lincoln in
historical stature. Prince said.

“For that matter, Lee became a
hero to all Americans when Lincoln’s
name was still a dirty word in Dixie,”

 

ROBERT E, LEE

he said.

Prince said the transformation
from rebel leader to admired Ameri-
can resulted from Lee’s character
and accomplishments, the efforts of
publicists, and the needs of a nation
trying to recover from Civil War.

Lee was an outstanding general
and a man of admirable qualities

who was respected by his soldiers

and, admired by opponents, Prince .

said,

“Self-sacrificing, devout and deep-
ly concerned for his men, he was
well-suited for ‘secular sainthood,’
even if he has been considerably
overrated as a military genius,”’
Prince said. “The Lee of popular
myth is exaggerated, but those who
created the myth had a great deal to
work with,”’

“He had, however, set an example
for his fellow Confederates by ac-
cepting defeat gracefully and work-
ing for national reconciliation,”’ he
said.

A group of Virginians worked hard
to make Lee a Civil War hero and to
depict Virginia as the most impor-
tant theater of war, which it wasn’t,
Prince said.

“By about 1880 they had succeeded
and the myth of the ‘Lost Cause’ was
rapidly spreading to the North as
well,’’ Prince said. ‘‘In this myth, the
South was wrong but noble, an honor-
able, valiant and determined enemy
fighting for a principle and finally
failing before superior resources.

“The austere and noble Lee fit in
nicely with this view of the war.”’

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Inaugural speech

Rabbi David Saperstein makes a point last Thursday night in a speech in
the Commerce school on the Jewish views of economic justice. The lecture
inaugurated a new series on Judaic studies sponsored by the Weinstein En-
dowment for Judaic Studies and the religion department. Saperstein, co-
director and counsel of the Religious Action Center, looked at taxation and
social welfare as based in the tenets of Judaism.

 

 

= Grades

Speaker says all B’s
aren't created equal

agency for society, whether it’s a
business firm, graduate school or law
school.’’

“As a predictive device they
[grades] are not very good at all....
They only predict the first year of
graduate school. Grades are tradable
for a good first job.”’

One professor present commented
that the academic records of some of
the members of the Washington and
Lee Board of Trustees do not suggest
that they would have been successful
later in life.

Differences in family background
also contribute to differences in
grades, Pollio said. He said two
children of equal ability could both
get B’s but get different reactions at
home that could affect their future
motivation toward attaining higher
grades.

“Not all B’s are created equal,”’ he
contended.

Pollio’s plan for a new system in-
cludes doing away with grades alto-
gether. He wants to ‘have college
professors certify students as know-
ing the body of knowledge.”’

He said that this certificate would
show that the student knows the fun-
damentals of a course and could then
advance to higher courses in that
field.

He distinguished that from a
pass/fail system. ‘‘Don’t set it at a
certain percentage,”’ he urged. In-
stead, professors should decide what
is necessary in a course and require
that students know it, he said.

The faculty members present
agreed there are problems with the
grading system but said they were
uncertain about how toimprove it.

Second
sex forum

canceled

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

The second session of the Universi-
ty sponsored forum ‘‘Male Sexuality:
Roles and Identity’ was cancelled
for the second time because of a lack
of participation by the male students
in the freshman class, according to
Associate Dean of Students, Anne
Schroer.

The lack of participation was not
because the males in the freshman
class knew everything there is to
know about sex, rather, they are
“completely uninformed,’’ Schroer
said.

She added that it’s very difficult for
a young person to attend such a meet-
ing because it shows that he or she
does not know everything about sex.

It’s unlikely the forum will be of-
fered again this year, Schroer said,
but similar topics will be discussed in
dorm programs in the future.

 

 

Staff Reports

 

A Miami man was indicted Monday on charges of con-
spiracy to distribute cocaine in connection with the case
of former student Gene Girard.

This week’s grand jury action was the second indict-
ment for Scott K. Wheaton, who was indicted last fall on
cocaine distribution charges related to the same inci-

dent.
Commonwealth’s Attorney Beverly C. ‘‘John’’ Read

said extradition proceedings are underway to have
Wheaton brought to Rockbridge County to stand trial.
He explained that Virginia law allows indictments to be
handed down on separate counts and that the state’s in-
vestigation can proceed on both charges until the trial.

The latest indictment says that on or about Feb. 26,
1985, Wheaton, who has been identified in trial tran-
scripts as Girard’s high school football coach, con-
spired with Girard to distribute cocaine in Rockbridge
County.

Girard was arrested March 1 at the East Lexington
grocery store when he went there to pick up a Federal
Express package that later was found to contain about
an ounce of cocaine. Girard was convicted on posses-
sion charges in August and was given a five-year
suspended sentence, of which he served about six mon-
ths in the Rockbridge County Jail.

Girard, who registered for classes this term, was
suspended by the Student Control Committee Jan. 9 for
the remainder of the academic year.

At Girard’s trial last summer, evidence was present
ed which established that Wheaton was the recipient of
a $1,453 Western Union money order Girard had sent to
Florida several days prior to the delivery of the
package,

 

 

 

NEWS BRIEFS
Miami man is indicted in connection with Girard case

Read said Wheaton also was indicted in Chesapeake
on distribution charges but successfully fought extradi-
tion attempts. A co-defendant in that case was sentenc-
ed to 30 years in jail.

—Jim Strader

Film Society to present ‘Danton’

“Danton,”’ the controversial 1983 film by director An-
drzej Wajda, is the next presentation of the Washington
and Lee Film society.

Showings will be at 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday in
Classroom A in Lewis Hall. The showings are free and
open to the public

As a result of his sympathy with Solidarity and other
forms of the Polish opposition, director Wajda’s recent
works, such as ‘‘Man of Marble” and ‘‘Man of Iron,”’
have been been heavily political in content. He began
production of the historical drama ‘‘Danton”’ shortly
after imposition of martial iaw in Poland in December
1981. The film is partly a reconstruction of the onset of
the Terror following the French revolution, and partly a
metaphor for political conditions in contemporary
Poland.

This joint Polish/French production has received
critical praise, while creating heated controversy over
its depiction of Danton (played by Gerard Depardieu)
and Robespierre. Some critics and scholars — most of
them French — have objected to the ‘‘manipulation’”’ of
French history to accommodate a vision of contempor
ary politics in Poland

The film is in French, with English subtitles

UC will meet to discuss future

The University Council will hold a special meeting at
4:30 next Thursday afternoon in the Executive Commit

tee Room in the University Center to discuss the Uni-
versity Council’s future.

The meeting is open to all members of the student
body and the faculty.

Scholar-in-residence named

Christopher Osakwe, di-
rector of the Eason-Wein-
mann Center for Compara-
tive Law at Tulane Univer-
sity, has been named
scholar-in-residence at
Washington and Lee's
Frances Lewis Law Center
for the winter semester.

While in residence,
Osakwe will be working on
a book tentatively titled
“Lex Sovietica: Principia,
Metodologia et Institu-
tiones.’’ In the book.
Osakwe provides a histori-
cal, philosophical and
methodological analysis of
modern Soviet law

Osakwe studied at the Moscow State University
School of Law from 1962 to 1970, receiving his LL.B.
with first class honors, LL.M. and Ph.D. degrees, He
received his J‘S.D. degree from the University of II-
linois College of Law in 1974

 

OSAKWE

\ widely-traveled scholar, Osakwe has served as vi
siting professor at the University of Michigan and the
University of Pennsylvania law schools and as a visit-
ing fellow at St. Anthony's College, Oxford University

 

He was a teaching assistant at the University College of
Law and an assistant professor of law at the University
of Notre Dame School of Law before joining the faculty
at Tulane in 1972. Osakwe leads delegations of Ameri-
can lawyers two times a year to the Soviet Union for
professional meetings with their Soviet colleagues.

Two awarded Pinney Prize

Seniors Larry Anker and John-Paul Bouffard have
been named co-recipients of the annual Edward L. Pin-
ney Prize, which is awarded by a vote by the students,
faculty and administrators on the University Council.

Anker, a physics, math and chemistry major, is a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa
and is co-captain of the wrestling team.

Bouffard, a psychology major, also belongs to Omi-
cron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa, and is a mem-
ber of the Glee Club and Southern Comfort.

Awarded for the first time in 1982, the Pinney Prize
was established by the faculty in memory of the late
politics professor who came to Washington and Lee in
1963 and died in 1980

Dining hall extends breakfast

Evans Dining Hall has announced that it will extend
its breakfast hours until 9:05 every weekday morning to
accommodate students just getting out of A-hour.

“People just aren't getting a chance to eat,” said din-
ing hall manager David Alderson. ‘This gives everyone
a chance to get through.”’ :

In other news, dinner at the dining hall will be from
5:30 to 6 tomorrow night because of the Trustees ban-
quet

 
Page 4, .=2 ‘ing-tum Phi, February 6, 19°‘

 

 

 

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinley/W&L

‘,.. they just fade away’

Sergeant Major Ronald Harris, chief instructor in the
ROTC program, speaks with Dean of the College John W.
Elrod. Harris recently retired from the U.S. Army after
more than 27 years of active duty. Before coming to
Washington and Lee in 1979, Harris served as an ROTC

instructor in the Army’s transportation school at Fort
Eustis, and as a first sergeant and command sergeant
major with the Ist Battalion (Mech) of the 8th Infantry at
Fort Carson, Colo. He was an adviser during two tours in
Vietnam.

 

Plans for Horse Center are
trotting away in Rockbridge

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee and other area
colleges may be able to start a polo
club at the Virginia Horse Center,
which when built will be located
three miles north of Lexington, ac-
cording to one of the facility’s
backers.

The horse center, though, recently
suffered a blow when former Gov.
Charles S. Robb failed to include
funding for it in his proposed 1986-87
budget.

“It must be recognized that the
state government has a tremendous
financial burden and obligation,”
said real estate agent G. Otis Mead.
“There are many absolutely essen-
tial things the state must address
itself to.”

Mead, a Lexington resident, is a
board member both of the Virginia
Horse Center Foundation, a private
foundation that raises and receives
funds from the private sector, and
the board of directors of the Virginia
Horse Center, which is responsible
for owning, planning, building and
operating the facility.

Mead said that “‘the Virginia Horse

Center will be a comprehensive
state-owned facility to serve the
equine competition, education, mar-
keting and recreation interests of all
Virginians, horse enthusiasts and
participants from adjoining states,
and on occasion, the center will at-
tract international competitions.”

A joint subcommittee of the Vir-
ginia legislature, which studied the
issue of the horse center for four
years, concluded that ‘‘such a facility
should be a joint venture between the
public and private sectors,” accord-
ing to Mead.

“The private sector, in my opinion,
has responded magnificently to the
challenge,’ he said ‘“‘And the state
government has also responded in a
very positive way.”

“If the state is in such financial
straits that it is not feasible to under-
take this new economic program,”
he added, ‘‘then I think there is justi-
fication for the private sector to
reach deeper than they’ve reached
before, in the best interest of the
cultural, recreational, and economic
well-being of the Commonwealth.”

During the first four years of
operation, the Virginia Horse Center
is expected to have a total economic
impact of $60 million, and to generate

approximately $20 million in new
revenues, primarily in the travel ser. '
vice industries, according to Mead,

Already contributions for the
Virginia Horse Center from non-state
sources include almost $1.2 million jn
funds paid and pledged, and a site of
378 acres, free to the state of '
Virginia, he said.

Planning for the center is welj
under way, Mead said, adding that he
expects an architectural and engi. «
neering firm to be hired within the
next 30 days. In addition, the commit.
tee will start interviewing candidates
for the position of general manager
in the next few days.

He said that if everything goes »
well, the center should be completed
as early as the late fall of 1987,

Finally, Mead said, the horse cen-
ter should have a positive impact on
W&L and other local schools. For ex-
ample, students who had “enjoyed ©
horsemanship prior to coming to
W&L at competitive or pleasure
levels” could continue their interest,

He said that “‘by having a greater
focus on the horse industry, there will ,
be more numerous opportunities for
students on their own extracurricu-
lar time to ride and maybe have their ,
own horse here, stabled in private’ ~
facilities off-campus.” 4

™”

«

a

«

a

a

VMI chaplain is cadets’ ‘Mom and Dad away from home’:

 

By JOHN T. WILTSE
Special to The Phi

 

‘‘He is my mom and dad away from home... he will do
anything for you,” said Cadet Sgt. Greg Ellis. ‘‘He is like
God’s gift to the Corps of Cadets.”’

That “gift” is Col. Charles C. Caudill, the John M.
Camps Chaplain to the Corps of Cadets at Virginia Mili-
tary Institute.

Words such as ‘father’ and ‘“‘friend’’ are used to
describe Caudill, who for the past seven years has been
an inspiration for thousands of area youths as well as the
force behind an ever-expanding religious program at the
146-year-old school.

Jackson Memorial Hall, the cadet chapel, has become
a focus for Caudill’s ministry.

Hymns fill the chapel every Sunday morning as well as
at special services during the holidays. It is not only
cadets who occupy the pews — residents of Lexington and
students from the area schools also come to experience
the family atmosphere of Caudill’s Sunday services.

Holly Hunnicutt, a freshman at Mary Baldwin College,
travels to Lexington with her roommate every Sunday
morning.

“What attracts me is how he talks about the little
things you can do for Christ and others around you on a
day-to-day basis,’’ said Hunnicutt.

Everyone leaves one of Caudill’s services with at least
one thing — a hug. He calls the churchgoers his ‘‘loves,”’
and the hugs are always given with a large smile and an
encouraging word. No one walks out of Jackson Memor-
ial Halla stranger.

Numerous religious organizations have been formed
since Caudill arrived at VMI. Both cadets and staff now
participate in the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, the
Officer's Christian Fellowship, the Baptist Student
Union, Chapel Choir, weekly prayer breakfasts, and in-
dividual Bible studies within the barracks. Seven years
ago, there was only a small group who would meet in the
basement of the engineering building.

‘“‘What excites me is that now I don’t have to be at all

ing charge of religious activities,’’ said Beyer, a second
classman from Milwaukee.

Caudill, a native of North Carolina, worked with young
people for most of his 23 years as a chaplain in the U.S.
Air Force.

He was commissioned in the Air Force in 1956, the
same year he received a Master of Divinity degree from
Duke University and was ordained an elder in the United
Methodist Church.

Serving at bases in the United States, Greece and Ger-
many, Caudill ran the largest Sunday school in the Air
Force with over 150 teachers, and directed various youth
camps and conferences.

While stationed in Europe, he was a member of an in-
ternational drug council and was involved with forming
“therapeutic communities’’ to aid Air Force dependents.
Caudill explained that these crisis centers provided ex-
perts in the fields of medicine, law, religion and counsel-
ing to help the youths with whatever problems they fac-
ed

Caudill also served as the senior chaplain at the largest
base in Europe and at Pactical Air Command Headquart-
ers at Langley Air Force Base prior to his retirement in
1979.

At Langley, he trained Army, Navy, Air Force and
Marine chaplains for combat service. He also established
procedures to deploy chaplains worldwide during a time
of crisis.

The Air Force on numerous occasions recognized Cau-
dill for his service to others. His military decorations in-
clude the Vietnam Service Medal and two Legions of
Merit for his work in forming the youth crisis centers in
Europe and his establishment of deployment procedures
at Langley.

Caudill’s long military service now is being recognized
ina different sort of way.

“T think what appeals to us as cadets is that he has
served in the military — he can relate his experiences to
us,” said Cadet Lt. David C. Brackett, vice president of
the Religious Council. ‘‘That is a part of his character we
can all respect.”

Caudill said he came to VMI because he wanted to get
back to dealing with youth ‘‘before they were unwilling to
admit that they needed somebody.”

 

 

Y

a

 

 

 

By David Sprunt

Corps of Cadets Chaplain Col. Charles C. Caudill in his office at VMI i

+

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

It does not take long for new cadets, or “rats,”’ to
discover ‘‘Chaplain,”’ as Caudill is known to the cadets
and students at the area schools.

“If VMI gets you down or you have problems at home,
Chaplain is the person you go to see,” said Mike Karns, a
fourth classman from Severna Park, Md. ‘‘You know it is
private — that what is said is not going anywhere.”’

“‘We do have a confidential counseling service at VMI
but people go see Chaplain instead,” said Ellis, a second
classman from Alexandria, ‘‘We go to Chaplain because
he is our friend.”’

The warmth of the man can be felt upon entering his
outer office — the family room atmosphere of room 304 in

 

was excitement in Caudill’s voice when he explained that
the cadets had organized a “‘toy per cadet” program to
ensure that the children of flood victims in neighboring
Buena Vista had something to open Christmas Day.

When he is not counseling, Caudill is answering letters
from alumni, many of whom he marries during the sum-
mer months, or preparing for Sunday worship and the
many evening talks he gives during the week. His day is
hardly over at 5 p.m. After taps, it is not unusual to see

Caudill walking into the barracks to visit “rats” in their
rooms.

On the weekends, he can be found traveling with the
football or baseball teams or at a neighboring college to

 

 

 

 

the meetings of the organizations.... The guys are doing it “You may be whatever you resolve with God’s help,” —_ ge ott Shipp Hall is in direct contrast to the sharp, coldar- Speak. pare «
on their own and growing by themselves,” said Caudill. reads a paperweight on the edge of his desk. __ Chitecture of the VMI Post. “That is how people get to know me,” said Caudill. “We |‘
The religious council at VMI consists of cadet represen- During the Vietnam War, Caudill spent three years in phe four Bibles lying on the coffee table and the extra Called it the ‘ministry of presence’ in the Air Force.I | 4
tatives from all the religious organizations and is the | Hawaii as the senior Air Force chaplain at an evacuation ; must let the guy k ho i ian
; : ; : : boxes of Kleenex tucked away in the corner remind a guy know who is drunk that I love him as_
group that works closely with Caudill to plan and imple- _center. It was there that Caudill had many young airmen _vicitor of the serious purpose of the office. A nearby door Muchas I love the guy in the pew.” 2S
ment activities at the school. die in his arms. is labeled “Devotional Room,” — the one place oan : «| 4
Cadet Pvt. William D. Beyer, secretary of the: “One young man who was dying asked me to give him _ pus where cadets can go and not be disturbed “The thing that makes Chaplain special is that he
Religious Council, also sees the expansion of the religious God,” Caudill said. ‘I thought it was sad that he was ask- . always makes himself available,” said B. Scott Tilley, a ¥
life at VMI asa source of strength for Caudill. ing so late. I would like for those at VMI to at least con- _ Toys, from a battleship to basketballs are piled up on —_ 1985 graduate of Washington and Lee. “He can relate to . | ,
“What motivates Chaplain is when he sees cadets tak- _ front the question before they meet death.” the conference table in the middle of the office. There _ students and has a heart for students.”
a
) REE) eects NO ED RN ER | ARR | RE: a CRA ri aa P )
: Typists—s500 weekly | ) , , SERVIDTAR. |. | -
oN at home. Write: P.O. { 4 23S. Main ‘
eh ar Box 975, Elizabeth, i Lexington, Va. 24450
fy . ae 4 8y Appointment 463-9588 Old Main St, Mall xington Hardware ¢
/ NJ 07207 Robin« Peggy «Marie “a Lexington, VA 24450 le 463-2242 e
- e ° ee |) AR RB ) 8 ase ° ;
buffer bite Florist & a) s

A “Spring Break’’ Welcome To
Washington and Lee
University Students

“aes

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Shopping Mall

Featuring Homemade Soups
‘ DAILY
Homemade Tuna, Chicken & Egg Salad Too!
Please Call 163-2508 “i

for your TOGO ORDER

Thank You, Frank Stinson

Show someone you care
+ at
on Valentine ’s Day Venetian Court Apartments
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33301
Heated Pool * Lawns * Cable TV * BBQ * Parking
Good Rates for Apts., Efficiencies,
Hotel Rooms

Phone (305) 525-2223

Send a special
floral bouquet.

 

 

165 South Main St. 463-9152

 

 

? Incredible Valentines
© and related items

>Hot new jewelry - just in!

R.L. Hess & Bro.

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

Aloe

Chinese and
American Cuisine

 

D

Give from the heart

Y Exotic Cocktail OL * ,
ALOHA WOK baie Sn G Lipsmacking chocolates 7 oy own
409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450 Available Y Sensational Crabtree & ovingly designed by Krementz

   

703-463-9342 in 14Kt. gold overlay.

To give with love.

Open Tuesday through Sunday
Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10
Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

Ss ae PCR Se Fe. Feces tS SBC PESO ERS Me SFE SES 4 FSI:

E Evelyn soaps
i ODGE

a
>

@

See

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pie z—>=

}

 

 

 
 

 

Minorities

Continued from Page 1

‘esidents of each of the four classes
id a representative from each of the
wee law classes.

eA minority can give special in-
ght to the perception of a problem
ivolving another minority in a way
iat a non-minority could not,

“Cultural orientation has a bearing
na person ’s reactions in any given
ituation,’’ the petition read.

EC President John Lewis said he
poke with former Secretary Webb,
he first black to be elected to one of

he “Big Three”’ positions, and heard
Webb's opposition to the appoint-
ment. He quoted Webb as calling the
position the * “most divisive issue that
could arise.’

Schaefer agreed, noting that such a
position would “pull apart” minori-
ties and other students. He added
there first-year-law representative
Bill Senft asked the petitioning
students if their request for this posi-
tion was caused by the awareness of
a racial problem at the school or to
create a “‘perception of fairness” by
having a minority hear the cases.

Rhinehart said both were impor-
tant but “‘the perception of fairness is
probably of greater importance.”

“We still have problems at this
school that have to do with race,”
Rhinehart said.

Junior Keith Pillow, a member of
the International House. agreed with

Language

 

 

 

 

Anece McCloud (left) and MSA members listen to the debate

the presence of racial problems at
W&L. “There is genuine fear among
the Asian students,”’ charged Pillow.
“They don’t come out and socialize
because they don’t feel welcome by
the majority of the white communi-

“They also are afraid of pursuing
proper political channels when
they’re needed simply because there

are no minority members or there
are very few,’ he added. ‘‘Mike
Webb was an exception.”

Lewis asked if the quality of being
a minority would enable the person to
understand misunderstandings in all
cultures.

“Were an Oriental appointed, for
instance, do you believe that just
because he was minority he would be

In addtion to the basic language work, testing is also
done by computer, Knudson said.
That process, he explained, is much more effective on

 

O Continued from Page 1

the computer than it is in the classroom, because an im-

mediate score is given and the student is shown his
mistakes at the same time.

couraged Knudson and Koberstein to continue with the

‘writing of a textbook for computer-assisted French. The
two wrote the software programs used in the French

course last year.

| Ina new and emerging field such as this one, Knudson
‘said the potential for growth and leadership in the

' discipline is great.

“What kind of position would this put Washington and
Lee in?” he asked rhetorically about the possibility of
: becoming a leader in the computer language field.

“We would be pioneering a new movement that would
‘be a model other universities could look to — it’s a very

exciting thing,’’ Knudson said.

That bypasses the time spent waiting for a teacher to
grade a test as well as the generalities that Knudson said

mark classroom discussions of tests.

Knudson said he had been worried about using com-
puters which he called ‘impersonal’ to teach ‘‘the most

personal thing a person has—his language.”’

He said he was glad to find that, with the proper
material and instruction, computer-assisted learning can
become even more personal than he thought it could.

The use of computers in language training, as studied
by Knudson’s committee, could play a major role in

boosting W&L’s position as a school known for its
language study program.

Knudson said he has added computer usage to parts of

the intermediate French instruction and is considering
re-writing a textbook he and Romance Languages
Associate Professor Alfred G. Fralin Jr. wrote to make it
compatible with the computer program.

“Tt seems clear that the computer will play an impor-
tant role in foreign language instruction,’ Dean of the
College John W. Elrod said. “‘If it does, Washington and

Lee will be on the cutting edge of study.”’

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

“'For your extra pieces of furniture’

463-2742

 

 

 

+: and 7/ Reg.‘
4 Caper’s tanning Fancy / {7 Haircuts 10% off
$5°° per session Dr ess for W&L always
or 15% discount Perms, Color Glazes,
‘Hfor 10 session signup Cosmetics

#

ti

Thurs. Eve. by appt.

 

  
   
   
 

Tues.-Fri., 9-5

Sat., 9-2

 

 

463-3146

Roses are Red

Violets are Blue
\ Caper’s has a golden

tan just for you!
Look your best for valentines

  

When only the best will do
25 N. Main
-2

  

Specials

  
 
  

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your

head for

my business.

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
  

 

Read
The
Classifieds

 

 

 

 

 

 

8-10
Sun. -Sat.

ne

$129

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

able to explain cultural differences
{in a black person’s] situation?”’
Lewis asked.

“He is more likely to understand,”’
said Rhinehart.

“It’s not that all minorities are the
same, but with a minority face, I’d
feel a bit more comfortable,” Pillow
said.

Expansion

O) Continued from Page 1

 

 

Above all, Wilson said, the energy
and imagination of the faculty is es-
sential in continuing to develop the
University’s courses of study.

The process of making changes to
the curriculum is slow-moving but
thorough, according to both Elrod
ard Wilson.

Elrod said the next step in the pro-
cess with the current studies is to
review the preliminary reports and
from that point decide what to do.

Wilson added that a program’s po-
tential impact on the University and
the funding available for its im-
plementation are vital in its evalua-
tion.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986, Page 5

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

The Virginia Society for
Hospital Public Relations and
Marketing is offering two scholar-
ships (for $1,000 and $500) to rising
seniors or juniors studying jour-
nalism, English or a related field.
Applicants must be full-time stu-
dents at a Virginia college or uni-
versity. For more information,
write or call: Debra L. Dodson,
Director of Community Relations,
142 South Main St., Danville, VA
24541. (804) 799-2399.

—— << SS SF eS SS SE Ge Gee Gee et aes Gee eee Go eee

Marie Borroff, William Lamp-
son Professor of English at Yale
University, will deliver a lecture,
titled “Sound Effects in the
Poetry of Robert Frost,” tonight
at 8 p.m. in Room 327 of the Com-
merce School.

The lecture is sponsored by the
W&L Lectures Committee and the
Department of English and is
open to the public.

SS ce ee ee See SS SE Gee eee ce nee mee

Any student who wishes to apply
for on-campus housing for the
next academic year must do so by
Friday, Feb. 14.

Applications are available in
the University Housing Office
located in the west wing of
Graham-Lees Dormitory. The
deadline applies both to students
currently in University housing
and to those who wish to make ap-
plication for the first time.

Specific housing assignments
for 1986-87 in Baker Dormitory,
Lee House, Woods Creek Apart-
ments, and other University resi-
dences will be made as soon as
possible after the application
deadline.

 

CLASSIFIEDS

George Gershwin’s ‘‘Porgy and
Bess”’ will be broadcast live from
the stage of the Metropolitan
Opera on Saturday at 1:30 p.m.
over WLUR-FM, 91.5.

Mozart’s opera ‘‘Idomeneo’’
will be broadcast live from the
stage of the Metropolitan Opera
Saturday, Feb. 15, at 2 p.m. over
WLUR-FM, 91.5,

The 1986 W&L Blood Drive was
successful in achieving its quota
of 150 units. I would like to thank
several individuals, especially
Chris Martin, Mrs. Atthowe and
Carol Calkins. Also, Mrs. DeVogt
and the W&L Women’s Club are
appreciated for preparing sand-
wiches.

The W&L ROTC department
once again received the award for
the greatest number of ynits.
Chi Psi fraternity will receive its
reward for being the organization
with the greatest percentage of
participation. Ted LeClercq and
his freshman hall will receive $30
of Domino’s Pizza for being the
hall with the greatest donation.
Phi Gamma Delta and Beta Theta
Pi are thanked for their impres-
sive turnouts.

Thank you, W&L, for making
the Blood Drive successful.

—Jake Squiers

 

LOST & FOUND

 

A bicycle was found at the Stu-
dent Activities Pavilion during
last weekend’s Superdance. To
claim it, call 463-8499.

 

Q. Do standard servings of beer, wine, and liquor all con-
tain about the same amount of alcohol?

A. Yes. A twelve ounce can of beer, a five ounce glass of

table wine and one and a half ounces of 80 proof liquor all
contain approximately the same amount of alcohol.
These are standard servings of standard aicoholic
beverages.

 

 

Date:

Feb. 10, 11, 12

Juniors, Seniors & Grads...

GIVE YOURSELF
SOME CREDIT!

 

 

 

- Just bring a copy of
your school I.D.
- No cosigner required

APPLY NOW ON CAMPUS!

 

 

Time:
Place:

Town House Tomato Soup
a.ttwti(‘(‘“C <;‘l wo
Molson Golden

Fresh Deli Pizzas

11:30 to 4 p.m.
In The Co-op

CITIBAKS

Citibank (South Dakota), N A. Member FDIC

 

 

 

 
 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986

 

Cagers return to .500m™

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

Last week caused mixed feelings
for the Washington and Lee basket-
ball squad.

It began on a down note when the
Generals’ losing streak reached five
games, then improved with a two-
game winning streak, but ended on
another low note when the Generals
lost to Mary Washington last night to
fall back to .500 at 10-10.

On top of all that, the cagers face
an uphill battle just to get the home-
court advantage in the first round of
the upcoming Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament.

“There is no rest for the weary,”’
said W&L head coach Verne Can-
field. ‘“‘We will play those games
[W&L’s three remaining conference
games, all three of which the
Generals have to win, if they are to
have a chance at the home-court ad-
vantage] as best we can and hope for
the best.”’

Last night, the Generals’ two-game
winning streak was halted in
Fredericksburg when Mary Wash-
ington stopped W&L 69-63.

The Generals were handicapped
when their leading scorer on the
season, Steve Hancock, fouled out
with only four points. Freshman Lee
Brading tried once again to pick up
the slack for the Generals. Brading
tossed in 17 points and pulled down 11
rebounds.

But the major factor in the loss was
at the free throw line, where the
Generals, who are shooting 75.3 per-
cent from the line as a team, attemp-
ted only seven free throws, making
three. The Blue Tide, on the other
hand, got 21 points from the charity
stripe.

The news from the Warner Center
earlier in the week was much better.

 

On Saturday, in the Warner Center,
the Generals relieved themselves of
a tremendous burden by beating
Lynchburg, 58-56. The win halsted a
five-game losing streak that had
dropped W&L from first to fifth place
in the conference.

“What a tremendous relief,” W&L
head coach Verne Canfield said after
the game. ‘‘The kids were trying so
hard, and they kept right on working
[during the losing streak]. I was very
proud of that.”

The Generals played excellent
team defense in the first half, holding
the Hornets to only 25 points. This
allowed W&L to take a seven-point
lead, 32-25, as the the teams headed
into the locker rooms.

When the second half began, how-
ever the Hornets, who entered the
contest only a half game behind con-
ference leaders Emory and Henry,
started to work their way back into
the game. They tied the game with
10:57 remaining, and even opened up
leads of as much as six points.

But the efforts of Brading, who
scored 10 of his 17 points after the in-
termission, and Hancock, who tallied
12 of his 18 in the second half, got the
Generals back into the game.

And when Hancock cooly canned
four free throws in the final minute of
play to ice the victory, a huge weight
was lifted from the mired Generals.

W&L won again on Tuesday, this
time struggling to beat visiting
Bridgewater, 58-54. The Eagles, who
are winless in the ODAC, jumped on
top early and led during most of the
first half, holding a six-point lead at
the halfway point of the period. The
Generals managed to cut the lead to
just a basket by the intermission,
despite a less than stellar perfor-
mance.

The defense was being upstaged in-
side, especially by the Eagles’ sopho-
more forward Chris Cockrell.
Cockrell, who entered the contest
averaging just under four points a
game, managed to bust the W&L

,’ “as r
“4 ™®
" 7 :

a

defense tor 14 tirst-hait points, 12 otf
those coming from inside the paint
and the remaining pair on a couple of
free throws.

“We, shall we say, ‘discussed’ our
performance at half time,’’ remark-
ed Canfield.

The discussion seemed to work
well. The defense tightened and
Cockrell was held scoreless the en-
tire second half.

W&L tied the game at the 6:08
mark when Brading took a baseline
jumper and scored his first basket of
the contest. He finished with eight
points on the evening.

The teams traded leads until, with
a minute remaining, Brading again
made himself known. He stole the
ball and went the distance unassisted
to put W&L up by two.

Then, with 11 seconds showing, and
the Generals still up by two, Brading
was fouled by Bridgewater’s Stacy
Lee and sent to the line with a one-
and-one opportunity. The freshman
hit both ends to give the Generals
another 58-54 victory.

A week ago, the Generals lost to
conference leader Emory & Henry,
79-73, putting their losing streak at
five. Brading returned from his two-
game absence because of the flu to
lead the Generals with 20 points.

With the ODAC playoffs set to get
underway Feb. 18, the Generals find
themselves in a rather difficult posi-
tion. In order to have any chance ot
securing a home-court advantage in
that opening round, the Generals
must win all three remaining con-
ference games, two of which are on
the road against first-division op-
ponents. The Generals face Roanoke
in Roanoke on Saturday and travel to
Tennessee next Friday to play Mary-
ville.

In between those games, the
Generals go up against Eastern Men-
nonite on Tuesday and Emory Uni-
versity on Wednesday. Both games
are in the Warner Center.

 

 

Larry Anker (white shoes) takes down an opponent in early-season action

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Marked by excellent all around
team efforts, Washington and Lee’s
wrestling team notched a pair of easy
victories this past week, trouncing
LaSalle, 43-12, on Saturday and Long-
wood, 42-12, last night.

The wins raise the grapplers’
season record to 6-1.

W&L’s cause against Longwood
was helped by a series of forfeits.

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over
50 years
Main Street, Lexington
463-3612

 

 

However, those Generals who did
step out onto the mat performed well.
Freshman 118-pounder Steve Cas-
tle and classmate Rich Redfoot (177)
along with junior Jeff Mazza (134)
were the recipients of forfeit wins.
Senior co-captains Brian Lifsted
(126) and Larry Anker (142) paced
the Generals with a couple of falls on
the evening, while senior Win Phil-
lips (167) and sophomore Kevin Mc-
Namara picked up wins as well.

W&L struggled at the upper weight
divisions. Freshman George Loupas-

 

 

Sat., Feb. 8

inGHQ
Wildgrass

$2°° Cover

$1° w/W&L Parking Ticket

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy*
Pizza and Priazzo™ Ital-
ian Pie.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Sat.).

* Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

¢ Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

* Each Wednesday night,

    

Na

1985 Pizza Hut, inc

 

5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only *3.49. Children under 6
years-99

 

 

Pra

 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

Hut.

 

   
  
  

Wrestlers floor two more, now at 6-1

si (190) and sophomore heavyweight
Dan Fales both went down to defeat.
W&L’s grapplers, inspired by yet
another excellent team effort, man-
handled LaSalle last Saturday, 43-12.

The Generals were aided in their
quest for victory by a slew of LaSalle
forfeits. Castle (118), co-captain
Lifsted (126), and standout Phillips
(167) were all awarded wins by vir-
tue of forfeit.

Still, most of those who wrestled
performed well. Co-captain Anker
(142) and Tim Walker (150) both won

U.S. 11N.

EAST LEX

463-3614

File Photo by Steve Sadler

by fall, and McNamara (158), Red-
foot (177), and Loupassi (190) were
also triumphant for W&L.

Coach Gary Franke was again im-
pressed with his entire squad’s per-
formance. “Right now,’’ he said,
“we're getting great team efforts.
We’ve risen to each challenge well.”

The Generals conclude their dual
season with an away contest on Sat-
urday against Washington and Jef-
ferson. The Eastern Regionals are
slated for next weekend in Trenton,
NJ.

  

Open Until Midnight

 

Since 1963

rge’s Hairstylist
now has
x Great New Talent x

 

tl tl tt tt i iil

      

We Welcome Mary Burgdorf

George's \~ Elegance in the Old Tradition

  
  

136 Varner Lane

Phone: 463-3975

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tun Phi

 

 

Soccer wins indoor title; hockey loses

Staff Report

 

Washington and Lee soccer teams
took first- and second-place honors in
an eight-team round-robin indoor
soccer tournament held on Sunday in
the Student Activities Pavilion.

In the title match, W&L I, captain-
ed by junior Peter Van Son, out-
scored junior Jimmy Tucker’s W&L
II squad, 8-1. The championship con-
test was a rematch of the tourna-
ment’s opening contest, a 3-2 W&L I
victory that morning.

In other club action this week, the
W&L Hockey Club suffered its first
loss of the season with a 3-2 setback
at the hands of Virginia Tech Monday
night in Vinton.

The club fell behind 3-0 but cut the
margin to 3-2 when Rich Hurley and
Vin LaManna scored. The team was
minus the services of leading goal
scorers G.T. Corrigan and Tony Mc-
Cann and starting goalie Bill Zola.

The skaters return to the ice on
Sunday night at 9:30 in Vinton
against Liberty University.

 

  
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

——$— F——__ JF |
roNG.. An
i EMER

eal OU bo | a

LMT ITT WL. TTT |
t- }

 

 

salad, fresh vegetable, potato or

Welcome the New Year at the Willson-Walker
House with our weekly Wednesday dinner,

Prime and Wine Special

8 oz. prime beef rib and glass of house white or red wine. House

2 dinners for $19.86

rice included,

 

 

Open Tuesday through Saturday
Lunch 11:30-2:30, Dinner 5:30-9:00
Sunday Champagne Brunch 1 2:00-2:30
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday

30 N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

703-463-3020 3
LANE Se NT LE SEIT NE ETTORE TITER

 

cod:

  

ees)

“oq
+
~~

ERGO

REC SASS
2

bake’
a

OBE
a

"Gee
<

a

ee

OM EL RRR MMH Tt:
< =

- =

~~

 

 

 
 

Female phenom

Freshman Miles setting pace for nation, future

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

Freshman Elizabeth Miles, the nation’s number one
500-yard freestyler, is going to be the foundation for
Washington and Lee’s competitive women’s swimming
program, says swim team co-captain David Lewis.

Assistant Athletic Director Cinda Rankin said, “I
definitely think that she will be the cornerstone of our
women’s Swimming program.”

Comments like these are the results of the waves that
Miles has created during her first year at W&L.

Miles, a Louisville, Ky. native, currently leads all
NCAA Division III women in the 500-yard freestyle with a
time of 5:17. The time also qualifies Miles to swim at the
NCAA Division II National Championships on March
13-15 in Canton, Ohio. Miles has also qualified to swim in
the 1,650-yard freestyle.

She also hopes to qualify for the nationals in the mile
and 200-yard freestyle. Miles only needs to trim one sec-

_ ond off her current time to make the 1:59 cut for the 200.

Although she began her competitive swimming at her
local country club when she was four, Miles says she
didn’t begin swimming seriously until she was 11. She
came to W&L to continue her swimming because she

' wanted the academic tradition in addition to the athletic

. opportunities. ‘It is like getting two for the price of one,”

_ she said.

‘Swimming occupies much of her daily schedule. The
team practices twice a day, Monday through Friday,
once at 6:30 in the morning and then again from 3:30 to

* 6:30 in the afternoon, and on Saturday mornings from

9:30 to 12, Swimmers also sacrifice a large part of their

Thanksgiving and Christmas Holidays.

But Miles does not mind devoting so much time to

swimming because of the benefits she receives. She said
swimming teaches her to budget her ume and keep her
priorities straight. She also said she enjoys the W&L
swim program and said head coach Page Remillard does
a really good job keeping her ‘‘psyched up.”’

Miles has adjusted well to W&L, and added that the on-
ly time she feels like a minority is in the classroom,
where a majority of the students are men. She said the
athletic department has helped women become involved
with the University. “It has brought us into the school
and brings us closer to the guys,”’ Miles said.

She elaborated on the new women’s athletic program:
‘From what I have heard, girls are really excited about
getting into athletics.’’ When asked whether she would
have come to W&L if the school did not have a women’s
swimming program. Miles answered, “It probably would
have made me think twice, but I probably would have
come here in the long run anyway.’ She said the school’s
academic reputation and her father’s diploma from W&L
gave her extra incentive to enroll here.

While recruiting Miles last year, Remillard said, he of-
fered her a first-class program that would allow her to
test her skills. Remillard added that his prize recruit will
help attract future prospects.

But Miles will not lure swimmers to the university sole-
ly because of her athletic ability. ‘‘She will be a plus in
recruiting because she is a talented athlete who is very
happy with her teammates and her training environ-
ment,” he said.

‘People who are not really happy do not swim fast
times,” Remillard said.

Miles hopes to accomplish much at W&L. She under-
stands that she plays a significant role in helping estab-
lish the women’s swimming program, but she also hopes
to play field hockey during swimming’s off-season.

“T want to do the best I can and have fun at it,”’ Miles

 

 

 

 

ELIZABETH MILES

M€en) & Miiles) show stars at Mary Wash. meet

 

_ By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
swim team reasserted itself Wednes-
day night with a 66-8 trouncing of
Mary Washington, while on the
distaff side of the pool, freshman
phenom Elizabeth Miles continued to
star by making the qualifying time
for 1,650-yard freestyle.

The men’s win comes off a pair of
tough defeats, an upset loss on the
Shepherd College set the stage for the
upset that awaited W&L Friday even-
ing. The Generals went into the meet
numbers on the squad, suffered their

seventh loss without a victory.

The men’s win comes off a pair of
tough defeats, an upset loss on the
road to Shepherd on Friday and a
last-event loss to Gettysburg on
Saturday.

The dimly lit four-lane pool of
Shepher College set the stage for the
upset that awaited W&L Friday even-
ing. The Generals went into the meet
believing that their opponents could
not pose a significant threat.

From the moment when the gun
sounded for the first event, the med-
ley relay, it was evident that some-
thing had been miscalculated.

Though the Generals were quick to
react and adapt to their opponents,

they could not put out the fiery en-
thusiasm that had been ignited in
their opponents.

Although head coach Page Remil-
lard was critical of his own judge-
ment in the meet, noting that, “‘it was
not one of my better coaching perfor-
mances,”’ he had praise for the swim-
mers, ‘I thought the athletes rallied
to the situation. We just couldn’t put
them down,” he said.

Saturday, against Gettysburg, the
Generals had a better understanding
of their opponents. The team knew it
was facing a young team with a first-
year coach, a team that would be
looking to make its mark on a more
established team, like the Generals.

“On Saturday we knew what we
were up against. It was a shootout

from the start,’’ commented Remil-
lard.

While Gettysburg was successful in
showing that it is a team to be reck-
oned with, winning the meet 52-43,
the Generals say they feel little
regret for their effort. Remillard,
prior to the meet, had called upon
certain swimmers to deliver faster
times. His call was answered with
such performances as David Reavy’s
2:18 time in the 200-yard breaststroke
and Moose Herring’s 4:54 in the 500-
yard freestyle.

Friday the Generals host William
and Mary, which has traditionally
gone all out against the Generals.
The Tribe even shaved down for last
year’s confrontation.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986, Page 7

 

Binding, indeed

....It’s a special time of year. The
smell of corporate lawyers’ starched
shirts combined with the hint of un-
deserved, exorbitant sums of money
reminds one that, yes, it is once
again baseball’s arbitration season.

This three-week session of “How
much Can I Make This Guy Think
I'm Worth” is not to be confused
with the sports summer season. This
season is important. It also includes more games. (That’s of the mind
variety.)

Actually, it would be silly to lend a pessimistic tone to this whole
treatise to arbitration. Hell, let Dwight Gooden try to get as much
money as he thinks he’s worth. He’s a legitimate factor in the future of
the New York Mets organization. Same with Wade Boggs, Bret
Saberhagen, and a few others. These gents are worth their weight in
gold — and then some — and ought to be paid for it.

But what about Charles Hudson, Ken Phelps or Ed Jurak? Believe it
or not, these three pretenders think that their combined worth is
around $880,000. Come again? Let’s take a look at some numbers.

Charles Hudson, a pitcher of little note for the Philadelphia Phillies,
was 8-13 last season, had 122 strikeouts and wandered through the
season with a 3.78 earned run average (Asking price: $330,000).

Ken Phelps is a sometime first baseman for the Seattle Mariners
who played in 61 games and batted .207, a virtual blue-chip piece of
stock (Asking price: $265,000).

And the hero of our story is Ed Jurak. Ed really overextended
himself in 1985 and feels his contract should be raised from $125,000 to
$200,000. His stats? A .231 batting average in 26 games and a grand
total of 13 at bats. I can think of no other profession where you can
work 16 percent of the time and still demand a raise.

Now how much revenue for the team does an Ed Jurak generate?
Not $200,000 worth, it’s safe to say. So, what’s the problem? Well, how
is it that we get the Ed Juraks of the baseball world thinking they
deserve as much money as the President of the United States? If you
work the dollar figures out, it seems ol’ Ed thinks he’s worth a fifth of
what Dwight Gooden’s worth. A fifth indeed. A hundred Ed Juraks
wouldn’t add up to one Dwight Gooden.

But that doesn’t really enter into the picture, thanks to arbitration.
Under the rules of this game, a player like Jurak who hasn’t been able
to settle a contract with the club can settle a contract, by taking his
case to binding arbitration, if he’s had two years in the big leagues. In
binding arbitration, both the owner and the player, plus their respec-
tive legal representatives, submit a figure. The mediator picks either
the player’s asking price or the owner’s selling price.

There’s something wrong with a system that allows, indeed en-
courages, Maxway-type players to demand Gucci-type respect. The
Juraks of the world are expendable. Unfortunately, the big bucks
demands of the Goodens of the world warps the major league pay
scale, in which owners are forced into offering amounts they don’t
want to offer.

Solution: Revoke binding arbitration. It’s a pointless process. If the
Ed Juraks of the world can’t work out an arrangement with their
bosses, let them sit out and see how they like life on welfare — that
way we won’t end up having cut-rate ball players asking for $67,000 a
hit...

....Back around the Colonnade, someone want to tell me how good
the General cagers are? Certainly, the potential is there for some in-
teresting outcomes in the next few weeks. Key contests will be Satur-
day in Roanoke and Tuesday against Eastern Mennonite. Both are
must wins if W&L is to get the home court advantage in the first round
of the ODAC tournament...Grapplers are continuing to roll, indeed.
Now, let’s hope for some deserved post-season success...

 

TIME
i

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pager ee er
Valentine’s Day
Specials

Campus Musié
formerly Campus Shop

SALE

    
        
       
   
     
       
     
   
 

~m
m
=
m
wm
_
m
za
RS

 

  

SALE SALE

  

 

 

 

 

f ‘i. sf TDK SA 90 Reg. $3.29 ea. Now '2"*ea,  3-pack only 64?
ue ? AT Maxell XL 11 90 Reg. $3.99 ea. Now$2*ea, 2-pack only *5
v & @ e
) University Florist 10% Off Every Album,
< Tape & Compact Disk
' 15 W. Washington St., Lexington .
463-6080 or 463-1559 nights In the Store

| Ledeen "Dorigne mage with « special Seven” arent string Guitar-Like New-Used Price $350

 

 

PS-YOUR CAMPUS Panasonic

Care Stereo-Reg. $249.00 Now *150

S ALE
117 W. Nelson St.

 

Let us deliver a little love to
someone special

COUPO

Di iiviciinic: $35°

We A iia es coves ce scsnes $1750
Offer expires 2-8-86

Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea,
Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt,
Turkey, Greece and Spain. Our 100 day voyages sail
in January and September offering 12-15 transferable
hours of credit from more than 50 voyage-related
courses.

' The S.S. UNIVERSE is a 500 passenger American-
built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea
admits students without regard to color, race or creed.

For details call toll-free (800) 854-0195

b or write:

SALE
463-4544

  
  
 

 

  
  

GEN ERA,

BH®

> S
®anguaRTe™

i at ee

Semester at Sea $ 00
| seiabhnte tak Pednbaenn aaneethin 1 Dozen Sweetheart Roses.............. cs
University of Pittsburgh, 2E Forbes Quadrangle V2 Dozen Sweetheart Roses............ 11

' Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Presents

Offer Expires 2-8-86

Present this coupon on or before Feb. 8, 1986,

‘--
1
I

 

* ‘ae :
EE A AR AL A A LE << A) A A) SD (>  () AD ) ED () SEED () ED) ED ED) ED) ED GED GD <a

v4 Semester At Sea representative to visit Washington and Lee:
' Wednesday, February 12, 1986

information Table: 10:00-3:00, University Center lobby
Film Presentation: 7:00 p.m., Room 109, University Center

Bob Margolin
and his battd

Rock, Blues, Rockabilly, in the
style of B.B. King

Friday, Feb. 7,9 P.M.-1 A.M.

82° Cover

 

 

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00

E. Nelson Street Sun. 1-5

463-2186

x aac ac ace ac ac aK HMMM Ow I IS

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington

463-4666 for reservations

\
Saturday, Feb. 8
Enjoy

“Wildgrass”’

Our Grass is Blue

9P.M.-1 A.M.

$2 Cover

And receive these special deals on
10% off any
store purchases
OTHER SPECIALS
To be given away at 12 noon, ¥
WIN! 1 Dozen Roses!-
for your Special Valentine
in person.
VOVIVVOY
lay Friday and Saturday by playing our guessing ga me
ai vo ll North Guess how many hearts in jar. You win!

Valentine’s Day!
(Excluding FTD wire orders and use of coupons)
Valentine’s Day
Register each time you place an order, by phone or
WIN! 12 Dozen Roses!-
Cae SEINE MOIS Se ee eee

2 SS A A | A A A A A A A) A A AT AT A A AT) ) ERD (> ED () ED () ED () NED) END (> END (> ERED (> CREED () CED ¢

 
 

“BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986

 

 

Southern Comfort performs in Lee Chapel Tuesday night

Southern Comfort has fun

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

‘Although we're musically quite
good, we're not concerned with being
musically correct; rather, we're
more concerned with making sure
thé audiences have a good time.”

Senior Bruin Richardson was talk-
ing about Southern Comfort,
Washington and Lee’s all-male vocal
group. Richardson, the group’s unof-
ficial leader, mouthpiece and guru,
insists the tuxedoes he and his fellow
singers sport are strictly a front.

‘Basically, the main thing is that it
is a hell of a lot of fun,” he said.

Southern Comfort is made up of 16
W&L students chosen by audition
from the Glee Club. The group is
Strictly extracurricular and_self-
supportive and is also, according to
Richardson, the “least bureaucratic
organization on campus.”

“I’m kind of the leader, but I don’t
have a title,’ he explained. ‘‘The
leader needs to have some certain
musical skills and it just so happens
that I’m the one.”’

Southern Comfort has been around,

P :
Lexington
Shoe Hospital

3 W. Nelson St.

Take a good look at your
shoes — if they need
repair, come see me.

— Expert Shoe Rebuilding —

 

more or less, since 1973. That was the
year that Dr. Gordon Spice, associate
professor of music and Glee Club
director, decided to start a barber
shop quartet composed of selected
members of the Glee Club. An origi-
nal member named Tom Snydam
came up with the group’s name
which, not entirely by coincidence,
was quite similar to the name of a
rather powerful southern drink.

The size of the group grew to 12
members with four alternates (two
for the tenors and one each for the
baritone and bass sections).

Dr. Spice no longer directs the
group but still acts as adviser.

Richardson said the main guideline
used to choose the music is whether
or not the piece is entertaining. Three
or four members might come across
a piece of music and sing through it.
If it seems to work, they present the
new piece to the rest of ‘‘the least
bureaucratic organization on cam-
pus’’ and it is arranged and choreo
graphed.

Richardson said the group prac-
tices at least an hour a week, but
before a performance, the members
try to get in about four hours of

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

Sunday 10am to lam

 

rehearsal.

At Tuesday’s annual Winter Con-
cert in Lee Chapel, the group per-
formed for a high-spirited hour. Its
repertoire included ‘‘My_ Girl,”
“You've Lost That Lovin’ Feeling,”’
‘‘Mountain Dew,’’ ‘‘Ride My
Chariot,”’ and a new Elvis Presley
medley.

“I’ve seen other groups similar to
us from the University of Virginia
and only one-third of their set was
entertaining,’’ said Richardson.

That does not mean, however, that
Southern Comfort is a bunch of ama-
teurs. On the contrary, the group’s
schedule is evidence not only of its
professionalism but also its populari-
ty.

For starters, it will tour Texas,
Alabama and Louisana beginning a
week from today. The tour, arranged
by the Alumni Association, will in-
clude stops in Birmingham, Ala-
bama; Dallas and New Orleans.
Richardson said that most of the
shows will take place at chapter din-
ners and country clubs.

Later this spring, Southern Com-
fort will pull into the Greenbrier for
an Easter Weekend performance.

 

SAB starts Winter Weekend

 

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s first ‘‘Mid-
Winter Weekend” kicks off tomorrow
evening in the Student Activities
Pavilion.

Michael Guerriero, executive
director of the Student Activities
Board calls the event “something
new.”

“‘We’ve never done anything like
this before,”’ he said.

The Friday night concert features
two bands well-known in the Lexing-
ton area: the Spongetones and the
Waller Family. Guerriero said he

plans to spend $7,000 to $7,500 for the
concert to see how two small ‘‘frater-
nity-sized’’ bands will be accepted at
an SAB event.

‘Whether the SAB loses a lot of
money on this depends upon whether
people come or not,”’ he said. Frater-
nities will not be permitted to have
parties during the concert in an effort
to encourage attendance.

Future SAB plans include:

Fancy Dress: Although Guerriero
declined to comment on either bands
or themes, he did say that there
would be an emphasis on color and
light and a number of ‘‘exotic spec-
ialty acts” at the ball.

The Count Basie Orchestra will be

playing at this year’s Fancy Dress
Ball, according to W&L, the
Washington and Lee alumni maga- ’
zine. The Basie Orchestra played at ,
Fancy Dress last year, as well.

March Concert: The Violent Fem- '
mes are expected to play the week-
end following Fancy Dress Guerriero
said.

Spring Weekend: Bands such as
the Kinks, the Commodores, and »
John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown .
Band, are being considered for a Fri-
day or Saturday night date. In addi- *
tion, a smaller band will play an ,
afternoon concert, possibly on the
Colonnade. :

\

The Clash is bad but BAD is good:

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

The Clash’s new album is called
“Cut the Crap,” and frankly, I
couldn’t have said it better myself.

Actually, this is only half the Clash
— specifically, Joe Strummer’s half.
And, evidently, this is not the group’s
better half.

 

Strummer kicked out fellow song-
writer/guitarist Mick Jones because
Jones seemed to be steering the un-
compromising Leftist Clash toward
bourgeoisie rock stardom. Now that
angry Joe has the reigns, however, it
is nakedly apparent that Jones did
more steering than most people
realized.

In the first place, the new members
are completely faceless. Not one of
them (and there are three new

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine®@Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

 

 

  

1/6 et.
1/4 et
W/2e
1 et

 

  

J et (ay fa
Savings You Can See...Quality You Can Trust!

 
 
 
   

 

Sensational Buy
ae 7 Diamond Cluster Rings
ww

WIDE SELECTION OF FASHION CLUSTERS
AND SOLITAIRE DIAMONDS

FRIDAY, SATURD

WNT

AM _/\ Sams

VWlentines
February ae

 

&

  
 
 
    
 

   
 

 

 

 

  
        
        
    
   
          

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

P Extra Specie! Valves tit — |, .28F.
, i otal Weight
"oe [ 14KT. Gold
Diamond
7° Earrings
; 4 Reg. ‘34
p 16" Se aioe 14K Now‘ 16.97
in
15°’ des nl
Reg. 30
18" tine 14K f Now'14,97
Chain
1 7°
Speciol valves on f Great Savings On
ins q
“aa 4 v 14K Gold Chains
yy Beads and
Diamonds

 

 

ron 39"?

10K and 14K yellow or White Gold
tw Reg. 259.00 Sale *129°
tw Reg. 339.00 Sale 189°
tw Reg. 599.00 Sole 379°

 

50%
OFF!

        
   
      

 

 

 

 

tw Reg. 899.00 Sale 599"

50% on

Feb. 7, 8,

Layaway For 90 Days

AY & SUNDAY
Special 14K Gold & Diamond

TRUNK SHOW!

A manufacturer's representative will be in our Jewelry Depariment Friday
thru Sunday with a special trunk showing of glittering 14K gold chains and
bracelets and dazzling values on diamond rings, pendants and earrings

        
       
     
   

 

 

 

463-7101

 

Your Personal Check Welcome Here, too

East Nelson Street

 

‘BLACK ONYX, SONGT ba prey
q , 14 KT. Gold
OPALS, TOPAZ, GENUINE 50 % OFF Sarcinas
STONE RINGS ¥
FOR MEN AND WOMEN A 50% orr
Special Orders, $5.00 Handling Charges
s

___ Behind McDonald's

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Y Off

Winter
Clearance Sale

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

Vuarnet
$45
Wayfarer
$40

Ray-Ban
$45-$50

College
Wholesales
463-9229

members) makes himself noticed.
They only appear to shout the ‘‘rous-
ing’’ choruses that serve as slogans
on at least half the songs.

Secondly, this record says nothing.
On the ‘Dictator,’ Strummer
assumes the character of a Third
World tyrant shouting over an erratic
drum machine and _ synthesized
horns. But the most powerful thing
Strummer has to say is, ‘““Yes I am
the dictator/I satisfy the U.S. team.”
My goodness, Joe.

On ‘Movers and Shakers,” he
celebrates gas station attendents,
break dancers, punks, and coffee
drinkers. (Just joking about that last
one.)

For those Clash fanatics, however,
who insist on seeing for themselves,
the track to record if you find a copy
of the record (and you can have
mine, by the way) is ‘This is
England.” Its slow, dub/punk feel
gives Strummer an opportunity to
shout like a madman. It almost br-
ings back the old days. The track to
avoid is “We Are The Clash.”’ This
one is simply Antmusic for Clash-
people.

Now for the good news. Mick Jones
did not take his walking papers to the
unemployment line. The fruit of his
post-Clash labors, Big Audio
Dynamite (BAD), outstrips the Clash
by miles.

Their debut album, ‘‘This Is Big
Audio Dynamite,’’ is a continuation

‘

of the dub and funk experiments ,
Jones was toying with during the

Clash’s “Sandinista!’”’ period. The «
record is crisp, exciting and in-
telligent. Its eight songs address the

rise of Japan (‘‘Sony’’), the decline of *
cinema (‘“E=mce’’’), the aparthied ,

problem (‘‘A Party’), heavy metal
satanism (‘‘Sudden Impact”), and
the AIDS epidemic (‘‘Stone

Thames’’).

 

As focused and ‘‘on the mark” as
Jones’ politics are (and they are
focused and on the mark about 90
percent of the time), it is the music
that makes this record so entertain-
ing. The album’s highlight, ‘“The Bot-
tom Line,” is BAD at its best: brac-
ing, dance floor politics to sweat
about.

So it’s all over. The Clash is finish-
ed. Kaput. Also rans.

Buy the BAD album,

 

Leanne eee eee {

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, February 6
3 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Identifying Career Alternatives. University Center.

7:30 p.m. — JUDAIC STUDIES FILM: “The Dybbuk.” Room 203,

Reid Hall.

8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘“‘Sound Effects in the Poetry of Robert Frost.”
Marie Borroff, William Lampson Professor of English at Yale Univer-

sity. Room 327, Commerce School.

Friday, February 7
7 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM FESTIVAL: “The Overcoat.’’ Room 327,

Commerce School.

8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ Directed by Al Gordon. University
Theatre. (For reservations call theatre office, 463-8637. )
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘DANTON.” French with English

subtitles. Classroom A, Lewis Hall.

School.

School.

$2.50.

 

9 p.m. — BAND: “Bob Margolin”’ in the GHQ. Cover charge, $2.

Saturday, February 8

8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: “‘Danton.”’ Classroom A, Lewis Hall.
8 p.m.— PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.”’ University Theatre.

Sunday, February 9
3 p.m.— PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ University Theatre.

Monday, February 10
8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ University Theatre.
9 p.m. — BAND: “WILD GRASS” in GHQ. Cover charge, $2.

Tuesday, February 11.
7&9— JOURNALISM FILM: “‘La Strada.” Room 203, Reid Hall.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “The Best Man.” Room 327, Commerce

8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ University Theatre.

Wednesday, February 12
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘‘The Best Man.”’ Room 327, Commerce

8p.m.— PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ University Theatre.
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN GHQ: featuring “Liquid
Pleasure.’ Sponsored by the Student Activities Board. Cover charge

 

 

© amypoanieemnapionenytemypenngiemyiicconyticss ©
él got my Fulbright
scholarship by

helping Costa Rican
children discover the

toothbrush.)
a Haifa, Israel
Work. Share. Save lives.

If you can meet the challenge, your summer in Latin America can
bring a lifetime of rewards.

Like leadership skills. And a career edge you can’t get anywhere else.
lo be an Amigos volunteer, write: Amigos de las Americas, 5618

Star Lane, Houston, Texas 77057.

Or call: 1-800-231-7796. In Texas,

call: 1-800-392-4580,

@ aefenfeyeemyeyeeyenyiens ©

 

 

 

’
‘

 

=
ah ia

\
h
