 

Running back

Weaver paces win

over Tigers

VOLUME 85, NUMBER7

 

Falling back

Page 7

 

 

Set clocks back
Sunday morning

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

Rain ending tomorrow;
fair, cool for weekend

 

Che King-tum hi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

OCTOBER 24, 1985

 

 

al

| General
Notes

 

Ooh-la-la

“Peppermint Soda,” a
i French film, is the second presen-
| “| tation of the Washington and Lee
Film Society. The film will be
shown Friday and Saturday in
Classroom A of Lewis Hall. The
showings are free and open to the
public. “Peppermint Soda” was
the winner of the Prix Louis
Delluc. The film, in French with
English subtitles, traces the ex-
ploits of French schoolgirls during
the 1963-64 school year.

Worthwhile

The personal counseling service
offered Washington and Lee stu-
dents is again this year provided
by Dr. James W. Worth, Univer-
sity Counseling Psychologist. Dr.
Worth will maintain regular office
hours in the University Center,
Monday through Friday, and ap-
pointments may be made through
the receptionist at the University
~' | Center or by calling 463-8592. He
may also be contacted in an
emergency through his home
telephone number, 463-4000.

Acorns of doom

‘ “Seeds of Destruction’ will be
shown Tuesday at 5 p.m. A 10-
minute discussion, led by Dr. L.
R. Emmons, will follow the film.

1978

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

On a table just inside the door of Robinson Hall, used math
books sit unminded beside a coffee can, partially filled with
quarters. A sign on the can asks ‘‘25 cents per book.”’

In the University Library, students stay up late, sometimes
all night, studying amid carrels full of other students’ tex-
tbooks, calculators, and other valuables.

In Evans Dining Hall, contract patrons eat three meals a
day without once proving they’ve paid their thousand dollar
tab.

Examples of Washington and Lee’s much-heralded Honor
System are seen every day. But everyone’s heard the stories
of the chemistry notes stolen just before exams, and the
clothes that mystically disappear from the laundry room.

‘“‘We have faith in the system,” Student Body Vice Presi-
dent Andrew Caruthers said. ‘‘We hope the students have
faith in it. We’ll continue to take it seriously until the students
decide differently.’

 

 

Honor: Possible breaches found as system endures

To what degree is that faith justified?

In a survey of several areas where students have been
vested with a great deal of trust, there is evidence that this
trust is in some ways betrayed. The freshman dormitories,
the University Library and the campus radio station are ex-
amples of places where problems are visible.

Disappearances in dorms

Stealing in the dormitories has been a problem for the past
several years, according to assistant head dormitory
counselor Dan Dupre. On his hall this year in Graham-Lees,
which Dupre said is hardest-hit by incidents of stealing, one
student reported about 10 button-down dress shirts stolen.
Dupre said another freshman reported leaving an expensive
sweater on a bench outside his room overnight and finding it
gone the next morning. The most common items reported
stolen, Dupre said, are cassette tapes.

Incidents of stealing are ‘“‘no worse than last year,’’ he
said, although he added that the problem has begun earlier
this year. The most common times for items to disappear are

Wednesday nights and weekends, when parties and other
social events are held, and there are more visitors to the
dorms than at other times.

Student Body President John Lewis put some of the blame
for the stealing on visiting students from nearby schools. “‘A
lot of it is girls,’’ he said. ‘‘Some people test the Honor System
too much. They leave their doors open on Wednesday nights
and a pack of girls from one of the girls’ schools comes into
the dorms.”

He added that as a freshman, he was the victim of dor-
mitory theft. ‘I’ve had boxers stolen and been down at
Hollins and seen them in girls’ drawers.”’

Losses in library

Another place from which items have disappeared is the
University Library. In the 1983-84 annual library report, 1,200
volumes were listed as missing since 1980.

The report goes on to note that in years before the move to

© See Honor, Page 5

 

 

Coed sports
get off toa
running start

By CHRIS APPLEBY
and MIKE STACHURA
Staff Reporters

 

 

FD

seen for '87

EC criticizes
pavilion rules

 

By SEAN BUGG and JASON LISI
Staff Reporters

beer ban

 

Although a University official says
“anyone can use” the Student Ac-

Refreshments will be served at
4:45 p.m. The film is part of the
series sponsored by the Washing-
ton and Lee Biology Forum.

United effort

The second annual United Way
Concert, organized by the Delta
Tau Delta fraternity, will be held
in the General Headquarters
Tavern on Friday, Oct. 25 at &
p.m. The concert, featuring sever-
al Washington and Lee graduates,

Wildgrass, Heinsohn and Day,
Rooster Ruley and the New Grass
Connection, and the Stains. There
is a $3 cover charge. All the musi-
cians are donating their time, so
all proceeds will go to the local
United Way Chapter.
Wild trip
The Outing Club is planning a
two-day, overnight canoe trip this
“: | ‘weekend. The trip is open to the
t / entire W&L community. All those
wanting to go on the trip must at-
tend a mandatory meeting tonight
at 7 in room 109 of the University

will include music by Tim Eddy, -

sun

~

Center.

Hot seat

is $2.
Boos and bobs

The Student Activities Board
presents the outrageous comedy
“Blazing Saddles,” starring Mel
Brooks, Cleavon Little and Gene
+1 Wilder, this Thursday and Sunday
at 8:30 p.m. in General Head-
quarters (free popcorn) and Fri-
day at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in Room 108
of the Student Center. Admission

“The women’s programs are going
great,’’ beamed Washington and Lee
Athletic Director William _ D.
McHenry yesterday, just a few days
after the first official competition of
a female W&L athletic squad in
Saturday’s cross country meet
against Virginia Commonwealth.

The University’s plans to field four
teams this academic year appear
well on their way to fruition,
McHenry indicated. In addition to
cross country, W&L has scheduled
competition in women’s tennis, golf
and swimming and diving.

The establishing of four teams is
not merely a goal, though. Member-
ship in the National Collegiate
Athletic Association means an in-
stitution must sponsor four sports
spread over the three seasons within
an academic year, according to
Shirley Whittaker, a representative
with the NCAA at its headquarters in
Shawnee Mission, Kansas.

“We don’t anticipate any pro-
blems,”’ McHenry said.

In addition to the NCAA require-
ment, W&L’s membership in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference is
dependent upon a similar four-sport
criterion. The ODAC requires an in-
stitution to field teams in four con-
ference sports. The ODAC sponsors
competition in eight women’s sports:
basketball, field hockey, lacrosse,
soccer, swimming, tennis and
volleyball.

While W&L will field four women’s
teams this year, only two of those —
swimming and tennis Are conference
sports. In May, the conference decid-
ed to provide a two-year waiver for

C) See Coed, Page7

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Buckets o’ duckets

Drama Professor Joseph Martinez plays the part of Shylock the lender in
last night’s rehearsals for the University Theatre’s production of ‘‘The Mer-
chant of Venice.”’ Beginning its 50th season, the Washington and Lee troupe
will perform the Shakespeare play at 8 tomorrow night through Nov. 5 at the
Henry Street University Theatre. See story, Page 8.

Beer likely will be banned from the

tivities Pavilion as long as the

Student Activities Pavilion and most
University functions next. school
year, resulting in a totally dry Fancy
Dress and Superdance, according to
a school offical.

Because most freshmen and sopho-
mores next year will be below the
legal drinking age, the  state’s
Alcohol Beverage Control board pro-
bably will refuse to issue liquor
licenses for University-wide func-
tions, Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto said yesterday.

“As soon as the majority of the stu-
dent body is underaged,”’ the ABC’s
so-called banquet licenses will be im-
possible to obtain for such events, he
explained. ‘‘I expect this will be the
last year there will be beer at Fancy
Dress unless we get a special dispen-
sation.”

“T assume this is the last year we
will have any beer”’ at the pavilion,
Cappeto added. ‘‘The ABC has said
this will be the’ last year.... This is
not something that’s within [the
University’s ] control.”’

“T still think people will come to
the REM concert if there’s no beer,”’

building’s rules are followed, several
members of the Executive Commit-
tee charged Monday that school poli-
cies are discouraging fraternities
from renting the year-old, $675,000
building.

Last weekend, for example, a par-
ty sponsored by five fraternities was
held not at Washington and Lee’s
pavilion but at Zollman’s Pavilion,
located five miles west of Lexington.

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto, who as the Uni-
versity’s adviser for student activi-
ties coordinates pavilion rentals, said
students are balking at using the
facility because they are unwilling to
comply with University and state li-
quor rules.

These regulations include require-
ments that parties be kept “‘private’’
by only admitting members of the
fraternity and their dates, that iden-
tification cards be checked rigorous-
ly and that those of drinking age be
marked.

‘Just because the students violate
the law out at Zollman’s or in the
fraternity houses, should they be per-

Cappeto added, noting that before the
pavilion was built, most school con-
certs were dry. ‘‘Did people come?
You bet,”’ he said.

Student Body Vice President An-
drew Caruthers said he was “‘appall-
ed’ by the anticipated ban, noting it
will be particularly harmful to the
Superdance for the Muscular Dystro-
phy Association.

“IT can’t imagine going to Fancy
Dress and actually being able to see
the decorations,”’ he joked.

“Prohibition is around the corner,
it seems.”

mitted to violate them here on cam-
pus?”’ he said. ‘‘The answer is ‘no.’ ”’

“The fraternities are accustomed
to violating the laws or finding loop-
holes in the laws, but we at Washing-
ton and Lee can’t be responsible for
providing these facilities to frater-
nities and know that they’re going to
violate the law,’’ Cappeto continued.
Cappeto said that in addition to state
laws, the University’s policy on stu-
dent drinking dictates that at cam-

C) See Pavilion, Page 6

Lambda Chi’s Haunted House
will be held Thursday night be-
tween 6 and 9 p.m. at 225 E.
Nelson St. The Haunted House will
feature refreshments, bobbing for
apples and ghost stories. Admis-
sion is free and children 12 and
under and their parents are

GHQ dinner menu: the facts and the feedback

Training ends and serving begins

 

, Review mixed —

welcome,

Bouncy, bouncy!

University Center.

M-I-C- K-E-Y

“Mickey One,”’ a 1965 film di-
rected by Arthur Penn and starr-
ing Warren Beatty, will be shown
tonight at 7 in Room 237 of the
Commerce School.

Bench warmers

Auditions for the next Universi-
ty Theatre production, ‘‘Bleacher
Bums,”’ will be held Monday and
Tuesday at 7 p.m, in the Boiler
Room Theatre on Henry Street at
the back of the Old Main Shopping
Mall

 

Freshman interviews for the
two positions on the Cold Check
Committee will be held Tuesday
at 7:30 p.m. in Room 114 of the

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

The training period for the seven
student waiters and one waitress at
the General Headquarters tavern is
now over, and the chef and manager
says he may need to train others to
meet the demand for a dinner plan
that began this month.

Bill Torrence, who became man-

ager and chef in September, said he*

introduced the dinner menu quietly
to give the new staff a chance to learn
the new system.

Torrence said GHQ last week serv-
ed between 50 and 75 dinners a night.
The tavern served nearly 175 dinners
Monday evening.

“‘We’re out of the bar business,”
Food Services Director Gerald J.
Darrell said, noting the new age stan-
dards for beer

‘The emphasis has to be on food,”’
he said. ‘‘We’ve got to break even.”’
Last year the tavern, then known as

the Cockpit, lost more than $20,000.
Contract specials give students on
Evans Dining Hall’s 20-meal-a-week
plan and those with point cards the
option of eating in the tavern instead
of the dining hall
Hostess Mary K. Martin said the
contract specials offer students a
nice atmosphere, cooked-to-order
food, and service — all at haif a point
cheaper than the dining hall.
Students who want the contract
specials must first pick up a pass in
the dining hall or the food service of
fice. Darrell said the passes help the
managers balance the funds between
the dining hall and the GH
According to Martin, some stu-
dents are taking advantage of the
GHQ dinner plan on a nijghtly basis
“They've told me the food is good,”

she said. And although students can
not eat all they want one advan
tage of the dining hall — Martin said
they have generally found enough to

See GHQ, Page 6

 

84.406 Al
ef
a ob eee

ee el |

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Seniors Bill Rush and Bill Holmes eat in the GHQ last night

like the vegetables

 

By JAIMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

The General Headquarters (i.e.,
the Cockpit) with a new menu! Your
humble food critics, upon hearing the
news, grabbed their trusty press
passes and sashayed over to the Stu-
dent Center. For many years now,
the famished Washington and Lee
sophisticate has been looking for
some good food within the Colonnade
vicinity. It would seem that GHQ, in
the campaign to revamp its image,
has thrown its hat in with the Palm's,
Spanky’s and the rest of the gang for
a piece of the action

We seated ourselves for dinner in
preparation for a sumptuous meal
(what other kind is there?) and we
were quickly attended to by our

See Review, Page 6
 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

Party barn?

Judging from the discontent expressed at Monday night’s
Executive Committee meeting over the Student Activities
Pavilion rental policy, a better name for “The Airplane
Hangar” might be ‘“‘The Golden Temple.’’ It cost a lot to
build; it is seen as a savior to fraternity house wear and tear;
and it is rarely used, thanks to great confusion over the
regulations and costs involved.

Clearly, misconceptions exist on the part of the students
and the administration of the proper uses of the facility.

When the decision was made two years ago to proceed with
the building of the pavilion, advocates of the plan pointed to
the need for a facility on campus for entertaining large
groups of people. The dining hall furniture was getting abus-
ed with all the movement for bands and the Superdance. The
Warner Center floor was not designed for beer or soft drinks,
and the expense involved in placing protective coverings
over the floor there made the cost prohibitive. With the in-
creasing concern over students driving drunk and heightened
tensions over Alcoholic Beverage Control board regulation of
social affairs involving students, Zollman’s became a less at-
tractive facility for parties. Even fraternities could gain
from the larger party facility since it would spare many
houses unneeded traffic.

It wasn’t a surprise then, when the W&L News Office, in its
press release dated June 4, 1984, noted that the pavilion was
being built ‘‘to provide students with an on-campus facility
for social and recreational activities.’ Its primary use would
be for social functions, with the athletic department able to
use the building during the weekdays for specific needs.

But somewhere between the conception and the occupation
of the building, the plan has gone astray. Barriers greater
than the lack of adequate parking facilities or a paved road
leading to the pavilion are inhibiting the use of the building as
it was planned.

The principal barrier remains the confusion over the rental
rule for the pavilion. Associate Dean of Students Michael A.
Cappeto, who handles requests for the pavilion, has tried to
implement a policy that will promote responsible parties.
Somewhere along the way, the policy is failing. Students, es-
pecially fraternity social chairmen, see the policy as expen-
sive and unreasonable. They do not understand where the $75
rental fee and the clean-up charges go. The rule that a
nominal price must be charged for beer is unfair, they claim,
since fraternity members deserve free beer for the social
dues they have paid. Parties at the pavilion, they say, are
private parties and should not fall under the University

alcohol policy mandating that beer be ‘‘sold, and not given
away’”’ at all University functions. Even questions as basic as
which groups can use the pavilion remain unanswered.

Cappeto ought to meet with the social chairmen and
discuss the regulations again. A clear explanation of the
alcohol policies for the pavilion and for the University could
dissolve many of the harsh words being thrown about.

The administration also needs to decide in its own mind
whether the pavilion was built for social functions, athletic
use or as a pretty campus decoration. Students certainly
want to use it for social purposes, but the conception students
have, whether warranted or not, is that the administration
sees other purposes as more important. After all, it is
students who have paid, are paying and will continue to pay
for the pavilion for the next 23 years. It’s a shame for it to go
unused because of muddled communication.

—NRP

A sobering thought

Every party has a pooper, which of course is why we have
the ABC. Thanks to the new drinking age regulations, next
year’s Fancy Dress and Superdance likely will not be
granted licenses to serve beer.

The ‘“‘fifty percent over the drinking age or no beer”’ rule
will especially hit hard on the Superdance. Students will miss
the beer at Fancy Dress, but the lights, bands and at-
mosphere will still hold great appeal.

It is hard to imagine a similar incentive for Superdance.
The vast majority of the students who attend the fundraiser
do so to drink beer and take in the top name bands. As Sandy
Whann, this year’s Superdance co-chairman, noted, ‘‘Next
year’s Superdance will have a hard time breaking any
records. I hope the losses can be made up in other ways.”

While the Alcoholic Beverage Control board rules attempt
to keep drinks out of underage mouths and drunks off the
roads, they also have a remarkable ability to put a damper
on things. Alcohol may not the party make, but it sure helps.

Many events at W&L, however, have prospered without al-
cohol. We’re sure that Superdance and Fancy Dress will be
added to that list. We believe that Washington and Lee
students can do something without an alcohol incentive.

‘‘No beer. No buzz. Big bomb,” may be the refrain for Joe
Piscopo, but this school, in time and grudgingly, can try to
disprove it.

a

Che Ring-tum Phi

MEO G TBO oo oo ccc ccceccccccccstsesccccccceuebecesssstststi2as Mike Allen
ee Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear

OU Reade Williams
(Serre rere ere ee ere Mike Stachura
tT WP Ne 65. ces ..sesees. Nelson Patterson
OS I Fa isvesiiveieeins a ks ..,.. Christopher Deighan
Jim Strader

CONE gis 6 hk is 600669080 008s 4 haa bee bee Chris Bowring

ee Jeff Kimbeli
isereeeves Hank Greenberg

Business Manager ........-.
Advertising Manager ... .

Abvertlntas GAAIR 6i a  ecceie Keri Hinrichs

Matt Coudert

John Feyrer

Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper

 

observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

   

\ 0 3
AG ATT
" rm va N

ed
f

EE
Future campus tours?

     

 

 

‘Call the doctor. The patient is dying.’

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

When Washington and Lee was
_ debating the merits and flaws of
coeducation, many people pointed to
the unrealistic nature of an all-male
institution in a society possessed of
sexual equality. It is a dream world,
a myth, a delusion,they said, to main-
tain an all-male bastion. So when the
school went coed, that illusorial
nature many expected would depart.

It did not. It exists today as strong-
ly as it existed a year ago, but not
because of women. Rather, we are
deluding ourselves into believing that
this school can and does live under an
ideal system called honor.

Does the Honor System need an
overhaul? Or should we just begin to
play taps and hope that it rests for-
ever in peace? These are more than
passing concerns, for they encom-
pass the entire campus and challenge
the very philosophy upon which this
institution is founded and operates.

When Robert E. Lee came to this
University in 1865, he took the thick
handbook of regulations guarding

student conduct and ripped it in two,
stating that the only rule he required
is that students “behave as a
gentlemen.” Over the years, Lee’s
intent has undergone challenge and
subtle reform, but student and facul-
ty generations have always ended up
— the powerful statement stan-
ing.

Today, his words face as great a
challenge as has been mounted in re-
cent years. The radical changes in
the rules governing conduct offenses
were implemented earlier this year,
and now, the need appears to change
— or at least substantially alter —
the Honor System.

Why the need for change?

In recent years, student opinions
about honor have changed greatly.
What society at large considers to be
criminal —stealing a road sign or us-
ing a fake identification — we find to
be youthful playfulness. Boys will be
boys. Damn if they’re also felons.

The Honor System appears not to
be working. Notebooks, texts, jackets
and money disappear nightly.
Students, once able to leave their
possessions freely laying about, now
guard their goods with great care.

Dorm doors must be kept locked.
Carrels must be patrolled regularly.
But these are only the physical symp-
toms of an ailing system.

There is also a philosophical side to
the Honor System that demands at-
tention. Some say this desperation is
due to an amoral student generation.
Students can no longer appreciate
fine behavior because they fail to see
it in a society as a whole. Honor is
more than fine behavior. It is not that
we are immoral perverts who suffer
from sticky fingers. Nor do we
necessarily take any pleasure in ben-
ding the truth to fit our purposes. We
don’t try to deceive every person we
meet nor do we try to outsmart the
professors. But we still fall victim to
temptation on great occasion.

Part of the perception problem
stems from the very concept of
honor. The White Book purposely
does not define it, since to do so would
necessarily declare something dis-
honorable which many find upright.
This open-ended definition allows
every case to be tried on an individu-
al basis. But students also lack
rudimentary knowledge of tradi-
tional concepts of honor. Attempting

‘King Tom’ decrees campus

 

MY VIEW
By Tom Maguire

There are some aspects of Wash-
ington and Lee life that I really love
— the atmosphere of the campus
most of all. Alas, there are some
facets of that atmosphere that
detract from its appeal. Thus, under
the heading ‘‘Things I Would Change
If I Were King,”’ I present a few of the
more irritating (some more trivial
than others, I confess) realities of ex-
istence here.

First on my list is a condition, a
state of mind, that even royal decree
might not be able to alter. I speak, of
course, of apathy. I am sometimes
quite positive that apathy is the only
belief held with conviction by many
W&L students.

This apathy takes many forms.
One such form is the poor attendance
at many school events, such as con-
certs. The Glee Club (and, I suppose,
the new University Chorus as well)
and the brass ensemble can count on
only one good crowd a year
—Parents’ Weekend. On another mu-
sical front, concerts of the Rock-
bridge Concert Theater Series, which
are underwritten in large part by the
University on our behalf, present
entertainment of a uniformly high
quality, and are attended by prac-
tically no W&L students, who would
get in free if only they would bother
to show up at the door.

Another manifestation of apathy is
low attendance at school sporting
events. The football crowds have not
been too bad so far this year, but the
philosophy of many spectators seems
to be “arrive late, and leave at the
half.’ Almost nobody goes to other
types of games. Basketball is a good
example. In the past, basketball
games have been so sparsely attend-
ed that by the third game one can
look around the Warner Center and
know that these same 30 or 40 people
are going to be at every game, and
that’s all.

Obviously, no one can go to every
concert or game. However, if every
one of us chose one or two groups that

needed a little support and went to
most of their performances or
games, everyone could take a little
more pride in their own activities and
in the school.

On a lighter note (but not much
lighter, as what I am about to speak
of is serious business), another com-
plaint of mine is directed at ROTC
and more specifically at the ROTC
officers, who presumably are older
and wiser than their college-age
charges. On many weekday morn-
ings, ROTC students are subjected to
what is called “PT” — short for
physical training. An unofficial sur-
vey of ROTC participants would indi-
cate that PT is universally despised
amongst its practitioners. Surpris-
ingly, it is also despised by many
residents of the Woods Creek Apart-
ments, your humble scribe included.
Why is that? Because it takes place
outside our bloody windows at

       

THEY HATE ME.

 

 

THEY HATED JESuS.

obscene hours of the early morning,
that’s why!!! If I am awakened by
chants of “SOUND OFF...SOUND
OFF,” sung (poorly) in many dif-
ferent keys (all at once) one more
time, I don’t know what I am gong to
do. If one has been up late studying,
and one does not have a class until D
hour, those few extra hours of sleep
can be quite important.

I might add that ROTC is not the
only culprit in this regard. The Build-
ings and Grounds department has a
penchant for employing its noisiest
machinery (i.e. leaf blowers) at ear-
ly hours as well.

As a solution, might not the cadets
do their PT elsewhere, say on Smith
Field, far from the dorms? Also,
might not B&G use its louder equip-
ment after the hour of, say 9 a.m.?
Many grateful (and tired) residents
of Woods Creek, and especially those
on the Lewis Hall side of the build-

to form any concept today is difficult,
if not impossible.

For students, as for faculty, honor
conjures many different and
mystical notions. Many students see
honor as a chivalric ideal that disap-
peared with Camelot. Other students
consider it to be an ideal approached“
and yearned for but rarely achieved, ,
by mortals. Any approach to revision
of the Honor System must necessari-
ly begin with campus discussion of
the current understanding of honor.

I hope the Honor System has not®
died. I hope it is not even stricken
with a terminal disease. I say this not”
because I want to guard a silly tradi-
tion, though some might accuse me
of that. Rather, I think highly enough *
of the students and faculty here to,
believe that we can exist in a system ©
where honor encompasses more than ,
honesty and the quixotic approach to
the southern gentleman. The system °
must do more than test character; it
must refine and shape it. It should try
desperately to disprove that garbage
in means garbage out. And finally, it
should be willing to admit when it no
longer serves a useful purpose. I
pray that latter test may never come.

changes

ings, would salute you.

My last complaint is, to me, a’
mournful one. Alas, even if I were,
able, I probably would do nothing to
change it. I refer to the plethora of
newly installed lights that now adorn
the campus. The editor of this page,
Nelson Patterson, expressed his opi-
nion on this matter in an earlier issue,
of The Phi, and I agree with him
wholeheartedly. One of the simple
pleasures at W&L was walking on the
front campus late at night. At one or
two in the morning, when all was
silent, one could revel in the awe
some magnificence of our colonnade.
Now, with more lights on the front
campus than in the average operat-
ing room, the wonderful, mysterious,
shadowy beauty of the colonnade at
night is gone. The 20th century has
hit W&L with great force this year.
and no loss is as painful for me as this
one.

 

 

 

 

JESUS RESURRECTED PEOPLE.
T RESURRECT PLOPLE.

 

THEY SCOURGED JESUS.
THEY SCOURGE ME.

 

       

 

BUT I'M NOT GOING TO COME RIGHT OVT
AND SAN WHAT 1 AM... YoU DRAW YouR
OWN CONCLUSION,

 
      
 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985, Page 3

 

Student expresses need for increased community service

MY VIEW

By Steven Pockrass

 

“Service, we need more service
here,’’ I said while perched atop the
barstool in Ye Olde Lexington Water
ing Hole.

“Hey, I’m moving as fast as I
can,” said the bartender as he
poured me the usual cold skim
milk in a dirty glass.

“Sorry, I didn’t mean that kind of
service,’’ I replied and then took a
big swig of the foamy draught and
wiped my grizzly face with the back
of my hand.

“Ahhh, tastes great,”’ I said.

“And it’s less filling,’ the
bartender replied. ‘‘So what kind of
service are ya talkin’ about?”’

“Community service. W&L needs
more community service,”’ I said.

“Are you out of your mind?” he
asked. ‘‘Maybe you oughta stop
poundin’ those milks like that. Don’t
you know about the MDA Super-
dance, the University Federation,
fraternity service projects and Law

School service activities?

Of course I knew about these. The
Superdance is W&L’s longest party,
and it’s a great time for a great
cause. I’d encourage everybody to
dance or at least attend and pledge
money for one of the dancers. (Not to
mention that my job as co-chairman
for public relations means I’m sup-
posed to get plenty of propaganda on
the airwaves and in print. )

The University Federation runs the
Big Brother/Big Sister program, and
some fraternities do service projects
such as the Bloodmobile and fund-
raising to fight multiple sclerosis. An
inside source whom I greatly trust
and admire (note how this builds
his/her credibility) has told me that
the Law School aids area residents
and institutionalized people.

“But I bet many people at this
school did more community service
work when they were in high school
than they do here,’ I said. ‘‘And not
just by giving money, but on a more
personal level by actually seeing peo-
ple, helping them.”

“It'll never work,’’ the bartender
said. ‘‘For one thing, remember that

 

THS DEFICIT

SOE ATTN

 

Reagan got re-elected because
everyone was better off than they
were four years ago.”

“Now, hang on-a second. Do you
realize W&L is encircled by one of the
poorest counties in the state of Vir-
ginia? Just because most people
didn’t vote for ‘Where’s the Beef?’
Mondale (he found out where at elec-
tion time), that doesn’t mean every-
body’s so well off. In fact, the reason
capitalism works is because it
depends on the rich to help out the
poor voluntarily. Otherwise, Marx-
ists would be having a field day.”

‘‘Maybe,”’ said the bartender. ‘‘But
people here don’t have enough time
to do all this service work, what with
classes and homework and fraternity
parties and going down the road and
all.”

“Yeah, life’s rough,” I said. ‘‘Hav-
ing to wait for parts for your BMW,
praying before the porcelain alter,
asking girls what their names are the
morning after. How do people do it
all?

“Have you ever gone down the
road, stopped and looked at the
houses some of these people live in?

Have you ever visited them? Honest-
ly, I have, and the people don’t live
like royalty; that’s for sure

“Besides, not everybody is in a
fraternity. And the women don’t go
down the road unless they're in
search of Squids, which I find highly
unlikely considering how we crushed
Hampden-Sydney in football.”

“OK, you got me there,”’ said the
bartender. ‘‘So where’d you come up
with all this stuff — the Boy Scouts?”’
he joked.

“As a matter of fact I did,’’ I said.

“But the Boy Scouts are a bunch of
faggots!’’ he retorted.

Not wanting to pound this guy into
the woodwork (I was thrown out of a
bar in Roanoke this summer — they
said it was because I wasn’t old
enough to be there, but I think they
were afraid of the damage I might
cause), I said, ‘And how do you
figure that?”’

“Well, there’s just guys there, and
they sleep together in tents.’’

Yeah, and for 200-plus years, there
were just guys at W&L and they lived
together in dorms.

“There is a national service frater-

 

WE KEEP

 

nity called Alpha Phi Omega,” I con-
tinued. ‘It was started by some
former Scouts who wanted to con-
tinue their service work while at col
lege, and it’s now coed.”’

“Yeah, that’s just what we need
here is another fraternity,’ the
bartender said :

“Oh no, you've got it all wrong,
APO doesn’t have a frat house. And
lots of APO members also belong to
social fraternities. Members aren’t
required to participate in every ser-
vice project but must complete a
brief pledge period that we could hold
in January and February. There’s no
hazing. Pledges learn about the
organization and do some service
work. The group’s goals are to per-
form service to the school.”

“Like getting a water fountain in
the weightroom,”’ he cut in.

“And service to the community.”

“Like getting the shake machine at
Arby’s fixed.”

‘And service to the nation.”’

‘Like getting the World Series out
of Missouri.”’

‘Well, that’s not exactly what I had
in mind, but I’ll see what we can do.
Now all we need is a core group of
interested students. I’m hoping peo
ple will get in touch with me over at
the journalism school (That’s where
I seem to live these days) or give me
a call if they’d like to join.”’

“Well, you really oughta start
talkin’ it up on campus,” he said.

“Iam,” I replied. ‘‘But I’m trying
to think of some way to get it in print,
too.

“Pour me another milk.” I sat
there, thinking. ‘‘And just for kicks,
puta little chocolate in it.”’

Tradition no excuse
for halftime exodus

 

MY VIEW

ed It struck me at that time that not
only was the ‘‘Great Halftime Depar-
ture’’ rude to those on the W&L team,

it must appear very strange to visit-

STAGGERS

 

 
 
  

 

  

7, coe

a

 

 

 

 

S
SSS
SS
SSS:

SN

RN
SS

TRH
SS

SS

S

S
cS

~~

    

 

  
  

 

\
iS

YL

 

 

 

 

 

HAROWARE STORES

   

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

 
 

E. Nelson St.

Mon. - Sat. 8:30-6:
463-2186 :

Sun.1-5

  
    
 

 

BORDEN

COMMONS

Lexington's First Condominium Co

 

 

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with

Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successtul welcome trom the «
out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts. we are intr
Commons

These new and beautitul condominiums are designed to fulfill your

eve

 

just a short distance trom Washington & Lee, V.M.L. and the histo
Isn't it time you considered the ease and tinancial rewards of condominium living?
It you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a bri
sentatives to help you
Baker Keal Estate
Post Ottice Box ae
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Ottice (703) 463-7319

Dick Emrey

» A ) .
St (

  
  

enings | NY Dake!

BUILDING MISSILES

ALL ACROSS AMERICA

PEOPLE ARE TALKING
TAX REFORM.

ake

 

 

a

    
 
  

<<

ABOUT

(eZ

v

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L Students

Present Student I.D. at the
Buena Vista Pizza Hut

20% discount
on regular menu items

23rd & Beech St., Buena Vista

 

 

<=

mmunity-
ry

   

 

 

our first success!

ommunity and quickly sold
oducing Phase II of Borden

ry need, and they re located
ric Lexington Community

chure available and repre

3) 403-2510 (evenings)

 

He S. Jefferson St.
%

463-3338

Hours:

Sunday 10am to lam

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

Blah. Blah. Blah.

I’m just as sick of hearing about
tradition as the next guy, but during
a year when so many traditions are
being changed, I'd like one be done
away with entirely. That is the tradi-
tion of the entire crowd leaving foot-
ball games directly after half-time.
This isn’t tradition, it’s poor man-
ners.

The W&L student athletes do not
get athletic scholarships. They are
not forced to participate; they do so
of their own free will. They devote an
enormous amount of their own time
in order to represent W&L. Fame? It
is elusive. Fortune? An iota of recog-
nition?

A hometown friend who saw last
week’s issue of The Ring-tum Phi
commented on the sparsely occupied
bleachers in the background of the
pictures of the Maryville game.
“‘Was there a Republican convention
during the game or what?” she ask-

PRR HRA

The Ring-tum Phi
“urges every student to
vote in the upcoming

elections
REKKKKKKKKKKKKKKkkhhhhee

whaKeKn
tkkkkwkik

tk

 

Jensen Others

LOW PRICES
Eastern Distributing

463-9703

after 6p.m.

Pioneer

 

. By Marie Kothman ors as well. Judging from such a dis-
| | AND ONE DAY play, it is not unmerited to say the
THE MINDI * at Tradition. Tradition. ‘Tradition, Vast majority of the W&L student

body lacks school loyalty, unity and
spirit.

Now I know the reason for the ex-
odus is to get a head start on drinking
for the Saturday night blowout. Hea-
ven knows if you haven’t caught a
buzz by 4:30, you are about as un-
American as Polish sausage. I do
think, however, that because the
games start at 1:30 and are over by 4,
it’s not such a sacrifice to postpone
the afternoon happy hour for another
45 minutes.

The Generals have had a remark-
able season so far, and the homecom-
ing game was one of their best. The
crowd’s lack of interest in the
game itself is appalling. Everyone
hung around until Ms. Satterwhite
received the crowning kiss, but didn’t
bother to see the General’s vanquish
the Scots. Yes, the W&L student
body’s priorities come through loud
and clear. Where would we be if the
football team had similar priorities?

   
 

Stockbroker
Trainee:
Opportunity in Virginia
Beach, Richmond or Wash-
ington D.C. area [please
specify] for hardworking,
enthusiastic individual.
Send resume to:
P.O. Box 8814

  
   
  
      
  

 

 

 

 

  
    
    
  
 

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

 

Beeesmsereann cements eam SS eta

Catering

 
 

By Appointment 463-9588
Robin« Peggy Marie

RGR. AGREES

/VUARNET,.

 

All styles and accessories available
Discount Prices! — Quick Service
Call Brandt Wood - 463-9800

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@® Wine®@ Beer

Subs@Imported Cheeses

ee ee

Marie's Kain Stylers

Virginia Beach, VA 23450

  
 

 

 

    
    

  

    
   
     
   

22: <a

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450 e

a

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

‘Best Pizza in Lexington”’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463-3133

 

Se ee ee ES ee a ee ce ee ee ee
 

EWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

Program of cognitive studies may be ready by 1986-87

 

 

EE EME
By BERT PARKS
Staff Reporter
4 program of cognitive studies, the analysis of the
nature of knowledge and learning, is being planned by a

mittee of psychology, philosophy and computer
science professors

Dean of the College John W. Elrod said this week that
committee’s work should result in a cognitive studies
ogram in the 1986-87 or '87-88 University Catalogue.
early stages of the program would include existing
courses and one or two seminars, in the same mold as
the East Asian Studies Program.

A major would be a ‘‘second-stage development in the
evolution of the program” far down the road, Elrod said.

Elrod called cognitive studies ‘‘one of the most ex-
citing areas of human learning.’’ Man now knows more

 

th

  
 

 

about outer space than about the inner workings of the
mind, Elrod pointed out

Cognitive studies is a relatively new field, and there
are few colleges that offer majors in it., among them
Brown University, Dartmouth College and Vassar Col-
lege.

The cognitive studies steering committee’s co-chair-
men are David Elmes of the psychology department and
Ramsey Martin of the philosophy department. Other
members are computer science Professor Ken Lambert,
psychology professors Leonard E. Jarrard, Nancy A.
Margand and Joseph B. Thompson, and philosophy Pro-
fessor Harrison J. Pemberton.

The committee's goals, according to Elrod, are to ar-
ticulate the five-year goals of the program, to identify
the themes that the psychology, philosophy and compu-
ter science departments can contribute to the program,
and the existing courses available to the program.

The committee hopes to propose a course of study for
the program, which must be approved by the faculty, in
time for inclusion in the 1986-87 Catalogue,

“There are courses that will be incorporated into the
cognitive studies program at a future date,” Elrod said.

“In addition to that, some strictly cognitive studies
courses will be created.”’

Before the committee was formed, Elmes and Martin
attended a June conference at Vassar for undergraduate
cognitive studies programs.

One of the conference's purposes was to see if a speci-
fic definition of cognitive studies could be developed. It
couldn’t, but Elmes and Martin brought back ideas from
other schools.

The two then spent the summer writing a report,
which was submitted to Elrod, after which the commit-
tee was formed.

Elrod said he hopes the cognitive studies program can

strengthen its related majors, encourage professors to
study the field, give students an understanding of the in-
terdisciplinary nature of their majors, draw speakers to
campus, and attract professors interested in cognitive
studies.

An example is Lambert, who came to W&L this year
with a Ph.D. in philosophy and a master’s in computer
science.

Cognitive studies examines the mind-body problem An
old philosophical question that asks whether the mind
and body are separate or the same — and artificial intel-
ligence, which is thegray area between human thinking
and computerized ‘‘thinking.’’

Thompson, a member of the steering committee, is on
leave at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pa..,
studying artificial intelligence.

The program will also focus on memory, perception,
language and free will.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EC looks at
selection of
class VPs

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Executive Committee Monday
night reconsidered the policy of elec-

ting three vice presidents from the
senior class to serve on the Student
Control Committee.

Senior EC representative Pat Hay-
den brought up the issue last week,
saying the process of electing three
vice presidents for the senior class —
one from the Commerce School and
one from each of the divisions in the
School of Arts and Sciences to serve
on a disciplinary committee was
somewhat meaningless.

“What does it matter whether a
student is a history major or a
science major when he’s talking
about a fight?’’ Hayden asked.

SCC Chairman Townes Pressler
agreed, saying, ‘“‘You don’t really
need representatives from the three
departments on the SCC.”’

‘t don’t understand why each of
the schools should be so separated,”
EC Vice President Andrew Caru-
thers said.

Noting that upperclass elections
don’t occur until the spring,
Caruthers said, ‘This is something
we don’t have to rush into,’’ and the
was deferred until a later

issue

   

meeting.
Pressler is the chairman of a 14-
member student committee that

ceais with non-honor related disci-
pline. It is composed of class officer
— law class presidents, underclass
presidents and vice presidents, and
senior class president and the three
vice presidents, giving the senior
class greater representation.

“T think that seniors are a little
more experienced,” Pressler said.

However, some EC members
pointed out that there are so few
science majors that electing a repre-
sentative from among them might
not be fair. :

The idea was suggested of reducing
the number of vice presidents to two
and having them chosen from the en-
tire senior class.

‘Hopefully the two best people
would be elected,’’ Caruthers said.

In other action, the EC welcomed
Matt Bryant as the recently elected
freshman representative. The other
winners of the freshman elections
were: president, Mike Forrester;
vice president, Tom West; and Uni-
versity Council representative,
Frank Sands

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

Journalism Professor Ronald :H.
MacDonald has been the host of a
series of local television vignettes
commemorating the 50th anniver-
sary of the Blue Ridge Parkway.

The series, which consisted of 25
one and a half minute episodes, aired
on WDBJ, Channel 7 in Roanoke,
from July through last week.

One final episode, concerning the
autumn colors on the parkway was
filmed last Thursday and has yet to
be shown.

The idea for the series came from
Jim Shaver, news director at WDBJ.

Shaver, whose grandfather owned
part of the land the Parkway was
built on, said he had been ‘“‘toying
with the idea’’ of doing a feature
series on the parkway for a long time
and decided that its 50th anniversary
was an appropriate event for such a
series.

The series was researched and
written by MacDonald, who said he
received the idea enthusiastically.

When first asked to do the series,
MacDonald said he was a “‘little sur-
prised, having not done anything in
real television for 16 years,”’

He found working in television
again to be a ‘‘thrill’’ and remarked,
“T’ve always enjoyed doing that sort
of thing.’’

 

He added that “equipment and
techniques have changed immense-
ly” since he worked in television.

“J miss working with the highly
creative people, but I can’t keep pace
with them anymore,’’ MacDonald
said.

“I don’t miss the day-to-day
routine of the newsroom,” he added,
however.

He appears in and narrates each of
the episodes, which range from his-
torical and natural points of interest
along the parkway to the presence of
motorcycle convoys.

MacDonald, a W&L professor since
1969, went to work for WDBJ after
graduating from Boston University,
where he studied journalism.

He said he had always been inter-
ested in broadcasting and that ‘‘back
then’’ the only way to fulfill that in-
terest was to study journalism.

MacDonald came to WDBJ a few
months after the station began
operating and spent 13 years as news
director, where he met Shaver.

It was this acquaintance with Mac-
Donald that prompted Shaver to ap-
proach him for the job lat last spring.

Filming began in the summer and
the film crew made five different
trips to locations along the Parkway
from Virginia into North Carolina.

After doing the series, MacDonald
said he gained a new respect for the
people who built the parkway....it
took a great deal of imagination for
the people in the thirties to attempt

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi
Journalism Professor Ronald MacDonald appears on TV in his Blue Ridge Parkway series

King of the road

Professor gives TV-tour of Blue Ridge Parkway

such a project.

The Parkway should be completed
in two years. A seven mile stretch is
all that remains to be finished. Con-
struction has been slowed by archi-
tectural complexities and problems
acquiring the land.

“T would like to be around for its
completion in two years, now that I
feel I have a stake in it,” MacDonald
said. He added that he would like to
do another series upon the Park-
way’s completion, but joked that
“they probably will send reporters
who are paid to do that sort of thing.”

Shaver said the Parkway is the
largest tourist attraction in WDBJ’s
broadcast area and so it deserves
special attention.

The series appears on Channel 7 in
the regular commercial rotation. A
computer inserts the 90-second seg-.
ment into available air time at a rate’
of two episodes, five times a week.

The final segment on fall foliage
was filmed just to complete the pack-
age in the hopes that it can be syndi-
cated.

It was not intended to be televised,
but the finished product was so good
that it will be aired as soon as the pro-
gramming computer finds a slot,
Shaver said.

On the lighter side, the series was
co-sponsored by McDonald’s restau-
rants, a fact that Professor Ronald
MacDonald said drew sly comments
irom his Channel 7 colleagues.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Trustees to study

financial proposal |
for new dormitory |

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

The Board of Trustees will con-
sider a $7.8 million financing plan for
additional student housing this week-
end as part of the board’s fall meet-
ing, and contruction may begin on
the dormitory as early as spring, ac-
cording to University President John
D. Wilson.

If the trustees accept the plan, the
University will obtain a site clear-
ance permit from the city of Lexing-
ton and tear down the house at 223 W.
Nelson St. and the adjacent Coca-
Cola bottling plant, which together
cost Washington and Lee $240,000 last
spring.

“Certainly, we will want to begin
tearing down those buildings as soon
as possible,,’’ Wilson said.

University officials hope the 250-
bed residence hall will be available
for occupation by September 1987.

The project will be funded in part
by industrial revenue bonds issued
by the Industrial Development Au-
thority of Rockbridge County. Simi-
lar bonds financed construction of
the Woods Creek Apartments in 1975.

In other action, a temporary apar-
theid committee, which was formed
last spring, interviewed three stu-
dents and three professors this after-
noon to solicit a general opinion from
the W&L community on the Univer-
sity’s investments in South Africa.

Wilson said the committee will pre-
sent an interim report to the board
Saturday before working on a com-

plete report that he said would pro-
bably be submitted to the trustees at
the February meeting.

The trustees will discuss other
money regarding the renovation of 32
University Place, the future site of
the Admissions Office.

Wilson said he expects renovation
work to begin in the summer.

The Class of 1961 is raising money
for the project and will present it to
the University as a 25th anniversary’
gift, according to Wilson. Officials
are also seeking funds from Virginia
corporations to defray the school’s
cost.

Also, Academic Affairs Committee
members will study the curriculum
of the East Asian Studies program
while they are in town and will report
their findings to the board.

Athletic Director William D. Mc-
Henry and Assistant Athletic Direc-
tor Cinda Rankin will report to the
Campus Life Committee on the sta-
tus of athletics, and Associate Dean
of Students Dan Murphy will report
on Rush.

In celebration of the 35th anniver-
sary of the publication of Shenan-
doah, the University literary maga-
zine, English professor and poet Dab-
ney Stuart will read two of his works
at the trustees’ dinner Friday.

Tom Wolfe, a trustee and author
who had some of his works published
in the first issue of Shenandoah, will
also speak at the dinner. Wolfe, who
is considered a pioneer journalist,
wrote ‘The New Journalism”’ in 1973
and ‘‘The Right Stuff” in 1979, among
other works.

Absentee ballots available

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

Any registered Virginia voter may
participate in the upcoming general
election by absentee ballot.

To get one, a person who will not be
in his home city or county on Election.
Day — such as a college student
—may request an absentee ballot
from the city registrar in the Lex-
ington City Hall on Washington
Street, or the Rockbridge County
Registrar in the basement of the

Rockbridge Courthouse on the corner
of Main and Washington streets. The
offices are open five days a week and
this Saturday.

These applications must be filled
out, witnessed and mailed to the re-
gistrar of the city or county in which
the student is registered five days
before the Nov. 5 election.

A student can get his local regis-
trar’s address by calling the Lexing-
ton Registrar at 463-7203 to obtain it.
The registrar from the student’s
home will send the student a ballot.

Lexington man charged with assault on lacrosse player

 

 

 

stall reports

 

Two Lexington men were charged Monday with as-
saulting senior Caulley Deringer, police said.

Deringer, a lacrosse player from Chestertown, Md.,
received six stitches in the face from the alleged
assault

Lexingtonian Anthony Clark was charged with misde-
meanor assault and battery, possession of marijuana
and contributing to the delinquency of a minor. A 17-
year-old juvenile was charged with malicious wound-
ing

Officer J.P. Joines received a call at 10:36 p.m. Mon-
day from senior Bill Holmes, who told Joines about an
assault on Deringer at Jefferson and McDowell streets.

A description of the suspects’ car provided by Der-
inger led to their arrests, police said.

In other police matters:

« Junior Joseph Donovan reported $2,630 worth of pro-
perty stolen from his apartment at 16 1/2 W. Washing-
ton St. over the summer. The theft included a $2,000
Phillipe Chariolle wristwatch, the police report said.

Ruth Herring, Donovan's landlady, said in a police
report that she had no idea how the property disappear-
ed

Donovan said he returned to the apartment in the fall
to find the property gone. He said he wanted to report it

then, but that Herring insisted he wait until she could
accompany him to the police station.

el.aw School Professor J. William Stewart reported
that someone set fire to a pile of leaves on his lawn,

 

causing damage estimated at $60.

eFreshman Scott Gorry reported a $200 bike stvien
from Graham-Lees dormitory last weekend.

He told police that he left town for the weekend and
told friends they could borrow the bike, but when he
returned the bike was missing and none of his friends
knew where it had gone.

—Marshall Boswell

Legislator to speak on apartheid

The Minority Student
Association and the Black
Law Student Association
are sponsoring a campus
appearance next month by
Willie Brown Jr., speaker
of the California Assembly.

Brown will speak on
“Apartheid and Its Rela-
tionship to Black America”’
on Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. in the
Moot Courtroom of Lewis
Hall, the law school build-
ing.

Brown, the first black
speaker of the California
legislature, was first elected to the assembly in 1964. He
became speaker in 1980 and was reelected in 1982 and
1984.

During his time in the legislature Brown has served

 

WILLIE BROWN JR.

as majority floor leader and chair of the California
Legislative Black Caucus. He also served as chair of the
Ways and Means Committee, the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Committee and the Governmental Efficiency and
Economy Committee.

Brown is the author of several landmark bills, includ-
ing legislation prohibiting discrimination in govern-
ment programs, law establishing the Child Health Disa-
bilities Program, and legislation creating the first
state-funded urban park.

Brown received his bachelor’s degree from San F'ran-
cisco State College and his law degree from the
Hastings College of Law.

GMU, JMU share debate honors

George Mason University of Fairfax won the varsity
category of the Washington and Lee Debate Tourna-
ment this weekend.

The tournament consisted of six preliminary rounds
divided into varsity, novice and junior varsity divisions.

George Mason defeated James Madison University in
the varsity division, James Madison beat George
Mason in the junior varsity division, and the University
of Virginia beat Fairmont State College from Fairmont,
W.Va., in the novice division.

Other colleges participating were W&L, the Universi-
ty of Pennsylvania, the Naval Academy, Wake Forest
University, Alderson-Broaddus College of Philippi,
W.Va., Liberty University and Randolph-Macon Col-
lege. In addition, Howard University from Washington,
D.C., observed the tournament.

Professor Halford Ryan, the debate team coach, said

W&L’s team of junior Rick Graves and freshman Bill
Webb finished 5-1 in the preliminary rounds, but the
team split its matches between the varsity and junior
varsity divisions.

Ryan explained that schools that put on tournaments
make sure that their teams don’t make it to the finals as
a courtesy to the visiting teams.

“It’s just not done,” Ryan said.

W&L’s novice team of sophomore Robert Owen and
freshman John Lawfon finished 1-5 in the preliminary
rounds.

Ryan called the tournament, which was held Friday
and Saturday in Payne, Robinson and Newcombe halls
and the Commerce School, a success.

“It’s the biggest tournament we’ve had,”’ he said.

Photo collection to be shown

A collection of photographs by the renowned Ameri-
can photographer Mathew Brady will be featured in du-
Pont Gallery Oct. 26 through Nov. 17.

The exhibit was organized by the National Portrait
Gallery and developed by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service and the Mid-America Arts
Alliance.

The photos in the exhibit come from the collection of
Frederick Hill Meserve, who gathered one of the most
extensive collections of historical American photo-
graphs ever created. Among the photos in the Meserve
collection was a sizable group of glass-plate negatives,
eacha life portrait, made in the world-famous studios of
Mathew B. Brady.

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985, Pac

 

 

  

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

English Professor Sidney Coulling addresses freshmen

Honor gets an ‘A’
after 45,000 papers

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

Sidney M.B. Coulling, professor of
English, customarily addresses the
freshman class on the Honor System
during orientation week. He calls
himself a ‘firm believer” in the
Honor System and said that his
understanding of it was shaped by
members of the faculty when he was
a student here in the 1940s.

He listed as one of the more in-
fluential professors Frank J.
Gilliam, who stressed certain basic
principles of the Honor System that
remain valid at W&L today.

Among those principles Coulling
listed is the idea that the Honor
System was never intended to teach
integrity. The system assumes that
people are honest when they come to
W&L.

Another strength Coulling sees in
the Honor System is that it does not
pretend to be applicable to
everything in life.

“It can’t do that,”’ he said. “‘There
are areas where it’s a mistake, pro-
bably, to try to apply it.” He used as
an example the case where a student
“borrows” a fraternity brother’s bot-
tle of bourbon. In this situation,
although strictly a case of stealing,
the Honor System should not be used,
Coulling said.

A third element of the Honor
System that Coulling stressed was
that it allows the accused student the
benefit of the doubt.

“The fact that. things are missing
or ‘taken’ doesn’t to me necessarily
imply theft,’ he said. In past years,
he said, the library staff had a
regular practice of going to fraterni-
ty houses after graduation and col-
lecting books that had been left
behind.

Coulling used an instance from his
own experience to illustrate his point.
“T have inadvertently left the co-op
without paying for my lunch,”’ he ad-
mitted. ‘‘We do things, sometimes,
that we don’t intend.”’

On the subject of cheating, Coulling
said he places great faith in students
to abide by the Honor System. “I

have no evidence whatsoever of any
cheating,’’ he said.

“I don’t suspect my students,” he
continued. ‘‘As a matter of fact, I
have a fundamental assumption that
they are honest,”

To illustrate his statement, he
outlined his years at W&L.

“This is my 30th year on the facul-
ty,” be said. ‘‘And let’s just say, ar-
bitrarily, I’ve averaged 150 students
a year.” Coulling figured he has
taught 4,500 students, assigning 10
graded papers to each, for a total of
45,000 assignments.

“In those 30 years,”’ he continued,
“T think I’ve had five cases of honor
violations. Now what would that be in
terms of percentages? Infinitesi-
mal!”

The five cases were all instances of
plagiarism, he said, and each was
turned over to the EC. ‘‘Without ex-
ception,” he said, ‘‘the students were
found guilty.”

While Coulling said that he does not
mean to imply that lying, cheating
and stealing do not go on, he says he
has “‘evidence of extraordinary cons-
cientiousness in adhering to the
Honor System.”

One example he said that he cites
in his speech to freshmen is his policy
of allowing students to turn papers in
to his office until midnight without
penalty. He said some might be sur-
prised to see how many papers come
in with’ time ‘notations of several
miniites past midnight.

“Now that is evidence on the other
side,” he said. ‘“‘There is nobody,
literally nobody, who can prove that
that paper was not turned in before
midnight. That is the sort of thing to
which I am referring.”

While he admits there is at times
suspicion of students among the
faculty, Coulling, who graduated
from W&L in 1946, said he sees noth-
ing to suggest that the Honor System
is not as strong as it was when he was
a student here.

“The most important aspect of the
Honor System to my point of view is
that I can assign work to my students
and I’m all but 100 percent certain
that the work will be their own.”

Dee Dee’s Hairstylists

Hairstyling for men and women

261-6317 © 2157 Magnolia Ave., Buena Vista

9-5 Tues. - Fri.

Marlene’s Hairstylist & Tannery

2131 Magnolia Avenue
Buena Vista
261-2420

Hairstyling for Men & Women

Tanning Special *39?°
for 10 visits.

Ask about Spectrum Seven Acrylic Nails

 

 

LJ

 

 

 

 

|

 

 

Admission $2.00

Thursday, Oct. 24, 8:30 p.m.

Friday, Oct. 25, 7:00 & 9:30 p.m.

Sunday, Oct. 27, 8:30 F.m.

      

The Student Activities Board
presents

Mel Brooks’

‘Blazing Saddles”

starring
Mel Brooks, Cleavon Little,
Gene Wilder

GHQ — Free Popcorn!
Student Center Room 108
GHQ — Free Popcorn!

   

 

HONOR BREACHED?

Honor

O Continued from Page 1

the present building, the library lost
an average of 1,000 books annually.

Barbara Brown, University libra-
rian, said the 24-hour schedule the
library maintains is possible because
of faith in the Honor System. She said
that the number of books missing is
less than one-half of one percent of
the library’s total collection. To look
at it another way, losing 1,200 books
over four years is a rate of about two
books lost per school day.

She added that of the 1,200 volumes
reported lost over the past four
years, about 200 of them have resur-
faced. It is difficult to detect missing
books, she said, because of the vast
number of volumes in the stacks. The
biggest problem in the library now,
she continued, is one that is not nec-
essarily honor-related.

“We are aware of an increasing
number of articles being ripped out
of periodicals,” she said, This pro-
blem is being reported to professors
who have requested that some of
these magazines be put on reserve.

 

Record rip-offs

Faith in the honor system has been
a long-running problem at WLUR,
the campus radio station. It has erod-
ed to the point that stiffer regulations
have been imposed on the student-
run station.

Things are not as bad as they once
were, according to Robert J.
deMaria, journalism professor and
faculty adviser of WLUR, but things
could definitely get better.

‘‘When I got here,” deMaria said,
“I went through [the record collec-
tion] and I took my time checking out
the card catalog that we had versus
what we had in the library, and it was
real weird because of the fact that a
good percentage was missing.”’

DeMaria placed the number of
missing records at about 15-20 per-
cent of the records on file.

A major part of the problem at
WLUR was the tendency of records,
especially the new ones, to disap-
pear. “For an example,” deMaria
said, “Al Stewart’s ‘The Year of the
Cat’ came in, and 20 minutes later it
was stolen. And this is the way it was.
I mean, records would just vanish.”

The fact that students who came
from a “‘little different economic
echelon from most’’ would steal
records upset deMaria. So did an ar-
ticle about the radio station and its
problems that appeared in The Ring-
tum Phi about five years ago. ‘‘I was
really steaming,’ deMaria said.

“After the article came out,”
deMaria said, “I came up to my of-
fice one morning, and there were
about 75 records in front of my office.
Unsigned — nothing — there they
were, which was real strange.”

(703) 261-2373 NIGHT
(703) 463-2826 DAY

Although he was impressed by the
honesty of the student who returned
the missing records, deMaria said
the problem of losing records per-
sisted.

DeMaria, who has been at W&L
since 1977, took several steps to
reduce the “shrinkage” of the sta-
tion’s record collection. The Ex-
ecutive Committee posted signs that
prohibited the removal of records
from the station, but, deMaria said,
people keep taking them. His prede-
cessor had instituted a policy of cut-
ting the centers out of albums, re-
quiring a disc jockey to use a special
adapter to play the record. DeMaria
stopped this practice because he
found that, along with the records,
students would steal the adapters.

The stealing problem got so bad, he
continued, that it was necessary to
spend WLUR funds to replace
records.

“And it’s not just rock,” he said,
scratching the idea that only popular
rock records disappear.

‘All of our Luciano Pavarotti were
stolen — and I’m going to say ‘stolen’
— what else do you call it? Is it just
coincidence?”’

The resurgence of the disappear-
ance of records led deMaria to take
the step that resulted in the current
station policy. Records not owned by
WLUR are not allowed in the station,
to keep station records from slipping
out in a pile of student records.

In addition, Journalism 140, the
radio broadcasting course, is being
eliminated. The dropping of that
class from the curriculum is not
meant to imply that those students
are responsible for stealing records,
deMaria said. It is a step toward
establishing a “‘nucleus” of radio sta-
tion employees.

“We're trying to get people up here
that realize that if they take a record,
they’re depriving the people that
work up here and the people out in
the audience of listening to it,’’ he
said.

Radio stations at colleges across
the country are being pinched by the
loss of records, deMaria said. He said
the radio station at James Madison
University has taken drastic steps to
combat record loss. JMU has a pro-
fessional radio staff that must check
records out from a record library,
store them in individual lockers
before using them, and sign them
back in to the library afterward.

DeMaria said this type of set-up is
detrimental to the operation of a
radio station. ‘‘It’s not fun if it’s real-
ly awkward to work at a place where
you’re not trusted. It’s really difficult
to work at a place where you’re total-
ly suspect.”

The seeming disregard for the
honor system by some on the third
floor of Reid Hall is distressing to
deMaria. The honor system was
praised “up and down” by those at
the University who interviewed him
for his job and to seé it failing at
WLUR is disappointing.

“It just kills me,” he said.

a

POPLAR HILL EXXON

24 HR. WRECKER SERVICE

Foreign & Domestic
Car Repair

EXIT 51 ROUTE 60 ri
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 

. .. something in chiffon? or

thing that might be worn off the
shoulder?

just downtown. Gowns by
designers like Ursula, Nadine,
Gunne Sax, Bernelle, Miss
Elliette, and others.

 

perhaps a delicious crepe? some-

We have it at The Bridal Suite,

THE BRIDAL SUITE

26 S. New St., Staunton

 

 

More than a Bridal Shop

 

 

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

Admitting that although the Ex-
ecutive Committee is the most visible
part of the Washington and Lee
Honor System, two EC members
point out that the efficient execution
of their job is dependent upon student
involvement in the process.

EC President John Lewis express-
ed concern about the student body’s
participation in the administration of
the Honor System. “The Honor Sys-
tem will not work if people don’t turn
cases into us,’’ he said. ‘“‘That’s how
it functions. We don’t turn things in
ourselves — things are turned in to us
and we investigate everything which
is turned in.”

Lewis said he is tired of hearing
that the Honor System doesn’t work,
and then receiving little, if any,
assistance from students. ‘‘The peo-
ple who complain about how the
Honor System is working or not
working are probably the ones who
wouldn’t have the guts to turn some-
thing in,” he said.

Andrew Caruthers, EC vice presi-
dent, said there appears to be confu-
sion on the part of some students. ‘‘I
think a lot of people think that it’s the
EC’s Honor System, and it’s not,”
Caruthers said. ‘‘It’s everyone’s
Honor System and we're just the ones
they’ve picked to administer it. If
they don’t view it as their Honor
System and want to take the respon-
sibility to turn things in, and having
to testify against a person, which
isn’t an easy thing to do, then the

   

Apt FALL-WINTER 1965

~_ Tired of Ho-Hum
Hairdos? —

~ Students, look good for your parents on Parent's
—Weekend. Come by or call for an appointment.

 

By W. Patrick Hinely Wi

EC officers John Lewis (left) and Andrew Caruthers

EC says it guards
‘everyone’s system ’

Honor System won't work.’

Problems go beyond simply getting
involved and reporting honor viola
tions, Caruthers said. The broad
issue is the responsibility of the st
dent body as a whole.

“Tf the student generation wants '
tolerate lying, cheating and steali:
then it’s time to have the ‘Trans;
ent Book,’ ’’ Caruthers continued
referring to the White Book. ‘'
publication outlining the ..
System. ‘“‘We only call it like
students want us to.”’

“That’s our job,” Lewis ad
“That’s the clause in the White Bx
‘as the student generation sees it

Caruthers made a suggestion
determining the scope of the EU’
work. “It might not be a bad idea to
poll the students as to what is hono
able and dishonorable — we don't
know,” he said. “Is drug-dealin:
honorable? Is being an accessor
murder?’’

In addition to the problems s
dents face in reporting honor vic
tions to the EC and beginning inves
gations, Caruthers said there are ¢.
ficulties experienced by the comn)ii
tee in taking a student to trial.

“There is frustration in ever
honor hearing,”’ he said ‘‘There mu
be moral certitude. Everyone mu
leave that room feeling that the tru
was found. If it’s guilty, then th«
painful verdict must be handed
down. We cannot ignore the reason
able doubt even if we think the stu
dent is guilty. We never convict, eve:
if the gut feeling is guilt. We !et oi
more students than we convict.”

 

Check out our ‘’Caper Cuts” ‘Uptown Look’ for men and women
—— We'll razor cut it, blunt cut it, taper it, shape it, layer it, undercut it
bob it, bi-level it and style it just for you.

 

~ Have it your way at Caper’s

——-———-Shampoo & Cut......... $goe —

 

 

 

A luxury salon without
the luxury price tag

 

 

25 N. Main St., Lexington

463-2566

 

 

 

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

Pavilion

 

Continued from Page 1

pus functions, beer may only be sold
— not given away

Senior Sam Svalina, who made the
arrangements for last weekend’s
five-fraternity party, said the pavi-
lion is too big for such a function and
that University alcohol rules have
the effect of making a fraternity par-
ty into a Student Activities Board-
type party. ‘‘The fraternities aren’t
going to go for that,” he said.

Svalina said that “‘it’s like you’re
forcing people not to have fun at their
own party,” and added that comply-
ing with University regulation is ‘“‘a
pain” and “a hassle.”

GHQ

() Continued from Page 1

eat.

She said some students even tell
her they like the food in the GHQ bet-
ter than the food in the dining hall.

“1 think if students come in and
give us a try, they’d be back,” she
said.

Dinners — which include a salad,
rolls and butter, dessert and a bever-
age — are served between 5 and 7:30
p.m. Monday through Thursday and
Saturday. On Friday, happy hour
pushes dinnertime to 6 p.m. Sunday
dinner is served between 2 and 7:30.

After 7:30, diners can choose from
the snack menu, which includes ham-
burgers.

Darrell said the extra hour for din-
ner at GHQ compared with the dining
hall is useful for athletes and
students with late afternoon labora-
tory classes.

Tonight’s contract special features
chopped steak with mushroom gra-
vy, mashed potatoes and vegetables

 

 

“People like to be kind of laid-
back’’ Svalina said, which he con-
tended is an atmosphere impossible
to achieve in the University pavilion,
which he compared to an airplane
hangar.

“It’s too big for a fraternity par
ty,”’ added Svalina, the secretary of
Chi Psi, which sponsored the Zoll-
man’s party along with Beta Theta
Pi, Kappa Alpha, Phi Kappa Psi and
Pi Kappa Alpha. “You're not going to
party under...University rules in a
place that’s not that enjoyable.”’

Cappeto said he ‘‘would have loved
to have seen them in the [ University ]
pavilion, but the pavilion is not built
for traditional fraternity parties.”’

“If they want a frat party, stay in
the fraternity house,”’ he said. “‘As
soon as we started hitting the liquor
laws and the Washington and Lee

du jour. Friday’s special is veal
cutlet Milanese with mashed pota-
toes and vegetable du jour.

Besides the contract specials, the
tavern also has a permanent menu
with prices that ‘‘you can’t beat,”’
Martin said. Prime rib, for example,
is $7.95 at GHQ. Anywhere else in
Lexington, the meal costs $11.95 or
$12.95, she said.

Torrence said some of the more
popular dinners are the roast beef,
turkey, and spaghetti and meatballs
— each at $3.95. The ‘‘curious’’ stu-
dents try the shrimp scampi at $6.95,
he added.

A poorly equipped kitchen has been
a problem for the five cooks, who pre-
pare all the food on the premises,
Torrence said. Since the tavern sold
primarily beer and hamburgers until
a few weeks ago, the facility lacks an
oven and a broiler. Most entrees are
prepared on the grill.

A two-burner hot plate is used to
cook all soups and sauces, Torrence
explained. ‘‘We really have to time it
just right,” he sa

Vegetables are warmed in a newly
installed steamer and meats are

alcohol policy...they said ‘no’ that
they would not make a reasonable ef-
fort.”

“They said, ‘If a fraternity brother
shows up and he’s drunk, we have to
let him in,’ ’’ he said. ‘‘Wrong. Not if
you’re going to have a_ liquor
license,’’ which forbids serving an in-
toxicated individual

The dean said fraternity parties
were ‘“‘one of the perceived uses’’
planners intended for the pavilion,
but that in the year the building has
been open, there have been no parties
by individual ‘‘fraternities per se.’’

He said though, that the ‘‘most im-
portant’’ function for the facility is
“large, University-wide events,’’ of
which there have been approximate-
ly 12 to 15 in the new building.

Vice President Andrew Caruthers
said at the EC meeting Monday that

thawed in a microwave. Torrence
said the microwave is not used to
cook food.

Darrell said another problem is the
lack of a dishwasher or even an ade-
quate sink that can be used to clean
dishes. For now, waiters carry dirty
dishes to the dishwashing machine in
a side room of the dining hall.

“We're making every effort we
can” to make the place a*success,
Darrell said.

The new dinner plan has to prove
itself before the University spends
more money to ensure its survival,
Torrence said.

“If students respond and support
the place, then the University will be
willing to renovate,’’ he said.

Managers of the University’s
tavern are trying to fill a mid-after-
noon void by purchasing three new
televisions that they hope will attract
students to watch afternoon soar
operas.

Darrell said ‘‘mocktails” and hors
d’oeuvres will be available at GHQ
within the next few weeks for stu-
dents who want to relax in the after-
noon in front of the television.

he thinks ‘‘the administration is not
pleased that so few fraternities are
using”’ the pavilion.

Sophomore Jon Missert, Chi Psi’s
social chairman, told the committee
Monday that the five fraternities last
weekend ‘‘wanted to get [the Univer-
sity] pavilion because of its proximi-
ty to campus”’ but that school rules
forced the event out to Zollman’s.

“] don’t think the fraternities
would use [the school] pavilion if
they had to sacrifice,” said junior

.representative Shayam Menon.

“There’s no way they would,”
agreed sophomore representative
Pat Schaeffer.

“There’s too much red tape,”’ ad-
ded Caruthers.

President John Lewis vowed to
confer with Cappeto to “see if the
tape really needs to be this red.”’

Cappeto said the University pavi-
lion may come back into favor if au-
thorities begin tougher enforcement
of the law at other party locations

“Technically what [the fraterni-
ties] are doing at Zollman’s is illegal,
and it’s just a matter of time before
they get crushed on it,”’ he said.

“T think we're going to see a mas-
sive crackdown by the ABC on frater-
nities and at Zollman’s so that what’s
happening...will be more reflective
of the law.”’

One consideration in pavilion po-
licy, Cappeto said, is that the ABC
has promised that if it catches one
major violation at the pavilion, no
more liquor licenses will be issued to
W&L for the rest of the year.

“‘T really believe they mean it,”’ he
said. “‘If we have Zeta Beta Alpha out
there and they violate the law, we

Fs
.

st
a

PT a
eM, ms ee
- x : YS — jt» i

" Y $a Kay aN 7

won't have a liquor license for Fancy
Dress or Superdance. It’s gone.”’

“I think those are worth having
and we're going to lose it if we don’t
have our ducks in a row,”’ he added.

Cappeto said the school actively is
encouraging more fraternities to use
the pavilion, and that one way it is do-
ing that is by making it ‘‘significant-
ly”’ less expensive to rent the build-
ing than it was last year.

He added, though, that the Univer-
sity has no plans to change any of its
alcohol policies.

‘‘We take the Code of Virginia very
seriously and we don’t want to violate
it and we don’t intend to violate it,”’ ¢

“The student body thinks the laws «
are unfair and doesn’t want to abide
by them,” he added. “Washington
and Lee...and the administration are
stuck in the middle.”’

é

al ee |

a

s
ts

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Car owners practice creative parking in the University ‘‘corral”’

 

are eset ete

aaa be ae em

2s veters eh

Review

 

© Continued from Page 1

waiter, Anton. We were handed our menus and given a
few minutes to ponder our choices. I looked up from my
menu and saw tears welling up in Chris’ eyes. He dan-
gled the menu from one hand. ‘‘What’s this?’’ Chris ask-
ed. ‘‘And this!” he cried out while gesturing to the
placemat in front of him. I could tell that Chris was emo-
tionally distressed by the cheesy quality of the filmsy,
handwritten menus and the equally cheesy paper place-
mats complete with a third-grade description of the
Commonwealth of Virginia (The Southern Inn is world-
famous for these placemats.)

Surely there was some mistake? Could this be some
kind of trendy, tacky-chic restaurant ploy, a la Madon-
na? Alas, no,.it was simply tacky. I thought Chris was
just beginning to recover from the shock when our
waiter returned with our two Cokes — in styrofoam
cups.

While the paramedics revived Chris, it was explained
to me that there were still some kinks to be worked out,
such as good quality menus, but that the management
was working on it. Although it is a relatively small mat-
ter, such niceties as real glasses and cloth napkins would
do more to improve the GHQ’s image than a million
name changes.

Mollified, we ordered and only needed to wait a short
while before our appetizers arrived. Chris had the clam
chowder, which he proclaimed “‘better than Mom’s.”
(So what if he lives in Iowa?) Best of all, it came in a

’ large soup bowl, so there was lots to enjoy. My fresh

citrus fruit cup was also quite good, with a mixture of
orange and pineapple slices.

When you order any of the dinner entrees, you also are
supplied with a house salad with a choice of several
dressings. The salads looked quite good and we picked
up our forks, ready to dig in, with baited breath when
suddenly our dinners arrived ten seconds after the salad

 

had been put down. This was quite a dilemma. Most
every restaurant gives the patrons a chance to finish
some of their salad before hitting them with the entree,
but no such luck at the GHQ.

The salads were quite good and bucked the trend of
house salads at other establishments by providing more
than the USDA allowance of lettuce and dressing. But it
was our entrees that really caught our attention. Chris
and I had decided to call the GHQ’s bluff and order the
shrimp scampi ($6.95) and the roast prime rib of beef au
jus ($7.95).

Chris found the shrimp scampi to be good — that’s it;
just good. There were quite a few large shrimp, sauteed
in a lemon garlic butter sauce. Although Chris liked the
shrimp, we were not too sure if it was worth the seven
bucks. I could tell that Chris was really hankering for a
good ol’ cheeseburger. Alas, the sophisticated food critic
finds himself deprived of these simple epicurean
pleasures so he can perform his journalistic duty.

On the other hand, my roast prime rib was excellent.
It was big, tender and exceptionally good tasting. I
would even go so far as to say that this was one of the
best pieces of meat I’ve had in any restaurant in Big
Lex. Highly recommended.

Wouldn’t it be nice to end our review on such a happy
note? We thought so, but unfortunately GHQ continued
to hurt itself by not paying attention to the details. The
rolls that came with dinner were cold. Cold rolls are
good, but hot ones are even better. The mashed potatoes
were OK, but they did not even provide any butter or
gravy for them. Believe me, potatoes sans accoutre-
ments are not a taste treat. The real kiss of death were
the so-called vegetables that came with the meal. There
are a lot of words we could use to describe them. How
about starting with “bad.” Of course, if you wanted to
use two words you could say ‘‘really bad.’”’ Get the point?

Overall, we think the GHQ is off to a good start, but
there certainly are some lessons that must be learned
quickly if they plan to compete with the established Lex-
ington restaurants. The food is good, though, and the
prices very reasonable, so we advise that you at least
give it a try for lunch or dinner.

Parking panel to meet next year

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Parking Lot Committee, to
which the Executive Committee has
appointed two students, won’t begin
to look at ways to create more park-
ing until next year, according to
Dean of Students Lewis G. John.

“It’s a longer range situation,”
John said. ‘‘Not this year.”’

The difficulty most often expressed

by students and faculty concerns the

scarcity of spaces near the campus,

which forces some to park quite far
from the school.

As John Ryle Lawson, a freshman
from Tampa, Fla., said, ‘‘I have to
walk so far to get to my car that I
might as well walk to wherever I’m
going rather than drive.”

John said the new dormitory plan-
ned near the Coca-Cola plant across
from Warner Center may eliminate
some parking spaces.

“The parking is adequate now,
though it’s not as convenient as
always,” he said.

The EC appointed senior Paul

Davey and junior Phil Hodges to the
committee, and when it is complete it
will include faculty and administra-
tive members.

The concern of the City of Lexing-
ton as well as complaints from W&L
drivers helped galvanize interest in

the establishment of such a commit- ’

tee.
While the committee will presum-

ably attempt to find more convenient '

places for parking, John said, it will
also deal with the enforcement of
parking regulations when establish-
ed.

Alcohol rules create problems, study finds

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

Arecent poll of deans of students at
32 colleges across the country shows
that schools permitting underage
drinking have fewer alcohol-related
disciplinary problems that schools
strictly enforcing state drinking
laws.

The study, conducted by the Amer-
ican Association of University Stu-
dents, a Philadelphia-based group,
was released by its president, Brown
University senior Mark Koide.

Koide said the study found that
“severe or prohibitive policies do not
produce a lower incidence of alcohol-

related problems on campuses. The
approach of a student as a responsi-
ble citizen appears to have a better
impact on alcohol abuse.”’

Washington and Lee Dean of Stu-
dents Lewis G. John said it is too ear-
ly to tell how Virginia’s new drinking
age of 21 and the University’s en-
forcement of it will affect the school.

“Things have gone well so far,”
John said. ‘‘Since our drinking age
has recently increased, it really is
hard to say how this study affects
us.”

Koide said, ‘“‘Last August we sent
out a 13-page questionnaire with
questions concerning parties, univer-
sity pubs and universities’ polices on

drinking.”

The University of Virginia was the
only school in Virginia that was
surveyed, Koide said. Some of the
other universities on the list were
Brigham Young, Duke, Stanford,
Cornell and Miami of Florida.

The poll found fewer cases of driv-
ing under the influence of alcohol,
damage to dormitories, vandalism,
assault, harassment and disorderly
conduct of schools that do not enforce
state drinking-age laws.

“One recurrent theme from the
deans surveyed was that they noticed
an increase in beer drinking,’’ Koide
said, “but a decrease in the drinking,
of hard liquor.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

TELL US HOW YOU LIKE IT Southern
eorge’s Inn
Welcome
Students
HAIRSTYLISTS Serving breakfast, lunch
Located at 136 Varner Lane and dinner for over
Directly behind Leggett . 30 years :
with plenty of parking Main Street, Lexington
Phone: 463-3975 or walk in. 463-3612

 

 

 

 

DATA SERVICES

203 N. Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-9455

 
    
     
 

 

 

—_
\ tid

— yy

Christmas? Plan ahead,
SAVE MONEY!

 

21 W. Washington St.

Dee ee ee
TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Going home for Thanksgiving or

Bill home or to parent's credit card!

“System One Computers”
“Boarding Pass Printers”’
— 3certified travel consultants —
463-7174

 

 

 

gett

DOWNTOWN LEXINGTON

 

Leggett Days Sale

Fashion Merchandise

With Savings In Every Department
9 Days Only

Come Shop With Us

To Get A Jump On Your Christmas Shopping

 

 

 

Op

 

 

 

 

Use your Leggett Charge, MasterCard, Visa or American Express
ev: Mon.-Thurs. 9:30-5:30 — Fri. 9:30-8:30 — Sat. 9:30-5:30 — Phone: 463-

 
 

 

we

a

 

Kevin Weaver slashes his way through Tiger defenders on his way to first-half gain

Gridders declaw Tigers

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

What’s going on here? Just a short
time ago there was some question as
to whether the Generals would ever
score any points, much less win a
game. Now, in their last four outings,
they are averaging just under 30
points, and have won all four con-
tests. They also are in contention for
the conference title and have an out-
side shot of gaining a bid to the NCAA
Division II] championship playoffs.

Last week the team traveled to ar-
chrival Hampden-Sydney College. As
has been its pattern in the past three
weeks, W&L trailed early, falling
behind 6-0 before scoring 25 unan-
swered points on the way to spoiling
the Tigers’ homecoming by a score of
32-20.

Tailback Kevin Weaver again gain-
ed over 100 yards and scored five
times (four on the ground, once in the
air), accounting for all the Generals’
touchdowns. That gives Weaver four
consecutive 100-yard days since re-
turning from the injury that kept him
out of the season opener, and makes

him the team’s leading scorer with
nine touchdowns.

Until the Hampden-Sydney vic-
tory, most of the scoring for the
Generals had come off the pass. In-
terestingly, Coach Gary Fallon had
said that Weaver was at least partly
responsible for that as teams would
be concerned with stopping his run-
ning, thereby opening the passing
lanes for quarterback Jon Thornton
and his corps of receivers. However,
the passing game just wasn’t there
last Saturday as Thornton completed
but two passes the entire afternoon.

This meant that W&L had to go to
the running game to move the ball,
and Weaver responded with 173
yards on 28 carries and an unofficial
school record for scoring. ‘‘He did not
do it alone,’’ stated Fallon. ‘‘The of-
fensive line and fullback Frank Sur-
face had a lot to do with his perfor-
mance.”’

“The performance hasn’t fazed
him,” said Fallon. ‘‘The five touch-
downs may be a school record, but
people will still say the W&L football
team wins, not that any one player
had ar outstanding day.”

The defense, as it has all year,
played a good game. Although allow-
ing 439 yards to the Tiger’s offensive
unit, they surrendered only 20 points.
This was due partly to the four times
they forced H-S turnovers.

Fallon said about the defense, ‘I
like the way they’re playing. We
knew in the beginning that we
wouldn't be a totally dominating
team. We're a good team — not a
great one, but a good one.”’

He continued, ‘‘But we’re aggres-
sive, and | like that. That’s the name
of defense. We might give up 15 yards
and then 20 more, but our aggressive-
ness will force them into a turnover
and we'll get out of it.”’

Looking ahead to next week’s
game against the University of the
South, Fallon said, ‘‘We’re going to
be in a dogfight. We’re playing a
team that scored 46 points last week
{against the Maryville Scots] so
they’re capable of being explosive.”
Fallon continued, ‘‘They have a quar-
terback who is very dangerous, and
who can score from anywhere on the
field. He’s also an excellent scram-
bler and might even be a better

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

W&L Sports Information

passer when he’s under pressure.”’

“We beat them in a tough game
last year by 17-14,”’ Fallon said of
next week’s opponent, ‘‘so they have
a score to settle. Plus, we’re playing
in front of another Homecoming
crowd on their home turf. It’s going
to be a tough game and we can’t af-
ford to look past them [at the con-
ference championship. ]”’

Sidelines:...The Generals are now
4-1 overall and 3-1 in the ODAC...H-S
drops to 3-3 overall and 1-2 in con-
ference play... Next week’s oppo-
nent, the University of the South, is
3-3 overall and 1-1 in the College Ath-
letic Conference...W&L leads the ser-
ies 18-15, including last year’s vic-
tory...The last eight games between
the two have all been decided by a
margin of less than seven
points...The Generals enter the con-
test ranked 11th in the NCAA Divi-
sion III South region (the top four
teams receive bids to the national
playoffs)...Weaver is averaging 123.8
yards a game...A win over Sewanee
would cinch W&L’s sixth straight
winning season, tying a record set in
the 1920s.

Attitude ‘great’ despite Richmond loss

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

An improved Washington and Lee
water polo team fought with that
renewed life that head coach Page
Remillard had been looking for this
past weekend to finish second in sec-
ond round competition of the South-
ern League tournament in Rich-
mond.

The Generals (15-10) beat Lynch-
burg, 17-3; Virginia Commonwealth,
17-2; George Washington, 7-2; and
the University of North Carolina at

Coed

O Continued from Page 1

 

 

institutions not in compliance with
the four-sport rule. Eastern Men-
nonite and Emory and Henry, both
charter members of the ODAC, field
only three teams in conference
sports.

“We'll have no trouble with that at
all,’ McHenry said.

McHenry’s enthusiasm is shared
by Assistant Athletic. Director Cinda
Rankin. Rankin said 26 percent of
W&L’s first coed class are participat-
ing in the athletic program. That per
centage is greater than the usual
amount of participation in a compar
atively larger university, Rankin in-
dicated.

Although this year’s teams are
young and inexperienced, she sees
them as ‘making good progress,”
which is very encouraging to her

Without the benefit of upperclass ex-
perience and leadership, this year’s
teams may struggle against the es-

tablished teams of opponents. How-
ever, Rankin views this possible
situation positively, seeing only im-

Wilmington, 5-0, before losing to
Richmond 13-6 in their third and
closest meeting of the season.

With three minutes left in the Rich-
mond game, the Generals had the op-
portunity to pull within three goals of
the Spiders with a penalty shot that
was blocked by Richmond’s goalie.
The Spiders followed the block with a
goal ona man-up situation.

An enthuiastic Remillard spoke of
the team’s performance, ‘‘We played
great. Richmond had to play our
game. We kept the pressure on and
we hada great attitude.”

Senior co-captain David Lewis ex-

provement in the quality of W&L’s
program over the years.

She said the department is ‘‘pleas-
ed with the cooperation and contribu-
tion of women” not only as partici-
pants, but also as team managers,
statisticians and supporters.

One immediate aim is establishing
women’s team sports, in addition to
the present individual-type sports.
Receiving an equally positive re-
sponse to field hockey and soccer as
possibilities on a survey of the

. freshmen women, Rankin said the

department has decided to establish
a club soccer team this spring. The
group will be voluntarily coached by

the men’s team coach, Rolf Piranian. ~

The choice of soccer is due to the in-
creasing nationwide apeal of the
sport coupled with the apparent
decline of popularity in field hockey
inthe ODAC.

The survey showed interest also in
lacrosse, but Rankin cited the large
number of participants necessary to
begin a team that ‘‘could comple-
ment the men’s programeasea pro-
gram"’ as a reason for for putting the
development of that team on hold.

Currently,. eight women compete
on the cross country team. Of-

panded onW&L’s improved attitude:
“The biggest difference between this
weekend and past weekend was that
everybody’s attitude was great. No-
body gave up. We kept giving 110 per-
cent even though we were losing.”’

Lewis added that the intensified at-
titude made the loss more deeply felt
and not one the team could just shake
off.

‘That was one we had to get over,”
Lewis said.

Remillard also cited W&L’s perfor-
mance on man-up and man-down sit-
uations as a current weakness that

ficially, W&L has competed in only
one meet, and, although the women
did not win, Rankin was encouraged
by the improved times over their
previous unofficial meets.

The swimming team began prac-
ticing October 15. They will face
Mary Baldwin November 13 in their
first meet. Although the team has
begun practicing, they would wel-
come more swimmers to join now,
Rankin said.

The 13-member tennis team, which
includes two transfer students,
defeated Southern Seminary, 9-0, in
their only scrimmage of the fall.
They will begin practicing in Febru-
ary for their first conference match-
es

Men’s golf head coach, Buck Les-
lie, has offered to work with the four-
member women’s team that begins
competition this spring. The spring
sport schedules will be made in a
meeting of the athletic department
next month

Rankin said both teams are hoping
to pick up more women before prac-
tice begins, encouraging athletes to
contact the athletic department
about joining the spring teams.

the team will be working on in the
next two weeks.

The Generals get a rest from com-
petition this weekend as they gear up
for the Southern League Champion-
ships, which W&L will be hosting on
parents’ weekend.

While the George Washington team
and club teams from the University
of Virginia and James Madison look
to provide strong competition, the
finals could very well see the fourth
meeting of W&L and Richmond,
which Remillard promises to be ‘‘a
great hour and ten minutes of very
physical water polo.”’

o Jackson
will not win

he Rhodes

... AS you grow up in this cold, cruel
world of ours, campers, every so
often one of those beliefs you hold
dear falls by the wayside. For in
stance, eventually you find out that
Santa Claus isn’t for real, that your
father really can’t fix everything in
the world, and that the Rhodes
Scholarship is hardly what you
thought it was.

I grew up reading the biographies of Byron ‘“Whizzer”’ White and
Bill Bradley, two exceptional individuals and standout athletes who
earned Rhodes distinctions, and thus I was left with the impression
that the Rhodes was some sort of Academic All-World award. I guess
it really isn’t.

The Rhodes Scholarship actually is a reward for the supremely ex-
ceptional individual. Its requirements involve those traditional
qualities of scholastic ability and strength of character, along with a
tangential consideration that the application phrases as ‘‘physical
vigor, as shown by fondness for and success in sports.”’ The form em-
phasizes that ‘continuing physical vigor is more important than
athletic prowess.”’

Do I hear a bubble bursting?

I grant that the Rhodes does not mandate athletic brillance. I sub-
mit, as well, that the John D. Wilsons, Whizzer Whites and Bill
Bradleys have vanished from the world as we know it. Indeed, one is
certainly entitled to worry that Cecil Rhodes, the scholarship’s
namesake and benefactor, is rolling over in his grave with the realiza-
tion that his original intentions can be met no more.

Isn’t there something sad in the realization that Bradley in 1967 may
have been the last top-flight collegiate basketball player to earn the
prestigious award? Is there something amiss if a Rhodes goes to a
part-time club fencer over a full-time varsity wrestler?

Perhaps not. Perhaps wrestling and fencing are sufficiently equa!
examples of physical vigor. Perhaps what the scholarship is about is
that fairly well-rounded, ‘‘sound mind, sound body”’ type of individual.
Yes, that is true. I may just be quibbling over a distinguished award
that has been awarded to some of the most influential people in the
20th century. Its requirements have been set. They are valid and
respectable.

But when you notice that the Bo Jacksons, the Patrick Ewings and
the Doug Fluties are not lining up for two-year trips to Oxford, you
begin to realize that intercollegiate athletics — at least on the level of
what once were John Wilsons and Bill Bradleys and now are Patrick
Ewings and Doug Fluties — is not the game it once was, and that it
may never be again. :

Am I saying that in big-time college athletics the Rhodes being
awarded to one of its athletes is more or less a joke? Yes, and that is
sad...

  

TIME

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

....Back to life cruising the Colonnade, we find the General gridders
easily the most dominant squad in the conference. In Sewanee, the
Generals face another Homecoming opponent and a long trip. A big
win this weekend means a big move in the rankings in the South. And
as far as Kevin Weaver is concerned, can you say “‘franchise’’?...
Quick note re polo: What goes around, comes around (i.e., Rich-
mond)....

.... Those boxing, er, uh, basketball bouts of late are out of line. I
keep getting visions of Kermit Washington and Rudy Tomjanovich.
And Mr. Ewing is due a rude awakening after he is bounced between
Moses and Barkley...Can’t tell you how sickening it is to read about the
guarantees and prize money in Sunday’s America’s Marathon in
Chicago. Does anybody remember what ‘‘amateur’’ meant?....

....Finally, have you seen that latest soap opera, ‘‘As The Old Sports-
caster Turns’’? Seems ol’ Howard let his mouth run away with itself,
and everybody withing mike distance is saying how glad they are that
the mouth that roared isn’t around anymore. Sounds like a bunch of
cheap shots to me. What’s that they say, consistency and profes-
sionalism? Seems to have gone by the wayside, that....

'
i

 

 

     
 

 

3 \\

TIGERS a
TAMED! , =

by John V. Lowe

 

 

 

 

Men, women outsped by VCU

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

Running against the Division I
Virginia Commonwealth cross coun-
try team last weekend, the Generals
suffered their second loss of the
season, 23-42, dropping their record
to 4-2.

The harriers were unable to place
in the top three, and, as Coach Dick
Miller put it, ‘It is mathematically
impossible to give them the top three
spots and still have a chance to win.”’

W&L did nail down the fourth
through seventh spots. Senior Eddie
Goundry led the way with an effort of
28:22 followed by sophomore Scott
Rippeon with a 28:42.

The W&L women’s cross country
team, also under Miller’s direction
with the aid of Jim Phemister, a
W&L law professor, also competed
Saturday against VCU. Virginia
Commonwealth was just too tough
for the lady Generals, though, down-
ing W&L 41-15. Freshman Carolyn
Arbogast completed the course in

26:27 for a sixth place finish for the
Generals. She was followed by class-
mates Stephanie Smith and Susan
Crouse, who recorded times of 30:04
and 30:09, respectively, finishing
seventh and eighth.

Next weekend, both men and
women will run against West Virgin-
ia Institute of Technology and Old
Dominion Athletic Conference oppo-
nent Bridgewater College at W.Va.
Tech. With the W&L men back run-
ning against Division III teams, the
harriers expect to bounce back from
last weekend's loss.

Soccer bounced by Gettysburg in OT, 2-1

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee soccer
team traveled to Gettysburg and was
defeated 2-1 in double overtime last
Saturday.

Freshman Johnny Sarber scored
the lone General goal on a penalty
kick. It was his seventh score of the
season.

Gettysburg got on the board in the
same fashion in the first half, and
neither team was able to add to its
total before the end of regulation
play.

After a single 10-minute overtime
period and a portion of another, the
Bullets capitalized on a W&L mistake
and handed the Generals the loss.
The defeat dropped the W&L season
record to 5-4.

Head coach Rolf Piranian noted
that a lack of team speed was evident
in the loss. He also said that a tie
would have been a fair indication of
the way the game was played

Yesterday's contest with undefeat:-
ed Liberty University in Lynchburg
was cancelled due to the inclement

weather. The game was rescheduled
for Nov. 7.
 

<BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

‘Merchant of Venice’
marks 50th season

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Staff Reporter

 

The 50th season of the University
Theatre will be celebrated with the
production of ‘‘The Merchant of
Venice,’’ which opens Friday at 8
p.m

It was the first production present-
ed at the Henry Street Playhouse
when the University Theatre moved
here in 1935 from the Lyric Theatre.

“The Merchant of Venice”’ is, as
lirector Al Gordon put it, ‘‘a story of
conflicts.’ A merchant and a money-
lender make an agreement that if the

merchant cannot repay the money he
has borrowed, the moneylender may
collect ‘‘a pound of flesh.”” When the

merchant defaults on the loan, it
must be decided if Shylock, the
moneylender, may cut a pound of
flesh from the merchant’s body. Thus

lhe Merchant of Venice” addresses
the question of whether to follow the
letter of the law or to take the con-
native meaning expressed by the
law.

Besides the basic dispute over the
loan agreement, there are conflicts
of Jews vs. Gentiles, material values
vs. gentility, and young vs. old, as
well as love stories that pit suitor
against suitor

School.

and Fog.”’ Room 203, Reid Hall.

8 p.m.— PLAY: ‘
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM:

Lewis Hall.

3 p.m.—PLAY: *

then Auditorium.

8 p.m.— PLAY:

$2.50

 

7 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILMS:

Gordon stated, ‘‘I think in order to
get a concept of the play, the symbol
or image that best describes the
theme of the play is that of the scales
— there has to be balance in all situa-
tions: power, money, love, mar-
riage.”

Although ‘‘The Merchant of
Venice” is listed as one of Shake-
speare’s comedies, it was, at one
point during the 19th century,
fashionable to present the play as a
tragedy, and to center on Shylock as
a tragic character. But Gordon dis-
agrees with this approach, saying
“other characters get buried, lost
beneath Shylock’s character...We
talk of the play having a tragic
figure, or tragic overtones, but it is a
comedy, basically and finally, a com-
edy.”’

Joseph Martinez plays the part of
Shylok, the moneylender, Bill Kinson
will take on the part of the Count of
Morocco, Mark McDonough will play
the role of Prince of Aragon and Ver-
non Eagle will be Antonio. Dave
Marsh will take the stage as Bassa-
nio, Greg Stites as Gratiano and
Susan Still will play Portia. Playing
the part of Salerio is Skip Sandler,
Ned Richardson plays Salanio and
Frank King has the role of Lorenzo.

Other cast members are Chris Gor-

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 24
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘‘Mickey One.”

Room 327, Commerce

“Triumph of the Will” and ‘“‘Night

Friday, October 25
‘The Merchant of Venice.’’ University Theatre.
‘Peppermint Soda.” In French with
English subtitles. Classroom A, Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: United Way Benefit Concert. Sponsored by Delta
Tau Delta, Public invited. General Headquarters.

Saturday, October 26
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘The Merchant of Venice.’’ University Theatre.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘“‘Peppermint Soda.” Classroom A,

Sunday,October 27
The Merchant of Venice.’’ University Theatre.

Monday, October 28
7:30 p.m, — FILM: “‘The Merchant of Venice.’’ BBC film series. Nor-

Wednesday, October 30
‘The Merchant of Venice.” University Theatre.
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY IN GHQ: Featuring Picture This. Sponsored
by the Student Activities Board. General Headquarters. Admission is

Compiled by Marie Kothman

 

 

man as Tubal and Stephano; Craig
Smith as Lancelot; John Boller as
Old Gobbo and the Duke; Sandra
Boozer as Balthazar; Monica Burke
as Jessica; Deli Ford as Nerissa and
Ron Wilhelmson as Leonardo.

Stage manager for the production
is Tom Brickel. Skip Epperson
serves as the technical director and
Thomas Ziegler is the designer.

The 1935 production of ‘‘The Mer-
chant of Venice’ was set during the
Renaissance period, but Gordon's
production is set in the 1800s with cos-
tumes reflecting the “Jane Austen
Era.’’ The move to a modern set-
ting has caused a problem with
the music that will accompany the
play. As Gordon put it, ‘‘The 1790s
was not a big period in Italian
music.”

Because ‘“‘The Merchant of
Venice’ requires an elaborate set,
detailed costumes, and employment
of ‘‘the Shakespearean poetic style,”
Gordon rates it as one of the more dif-
ficult plays to produce. But a dyna-
mic set coupled with an excellent
cast that Gordon says, ‘works
together well,’, “The Merchant of
Venice” promises to be a superb pro-
duction. The play is set to run
through Nov. 2.

 

By BILL HANNA
Television Critic

 

Usually, I use this space to write
about stuff going on in commercial
television and to put down any high-
lights of the week. This week, I’ll pay
a little attention to Home Box Office.

HBO may have a few faults such as
showing movies like ‘‘The Karate
Kid’’ so often that they seem to be on
every time you tune in to the channel.

HBO may also be a little too con-
servative when deciding which time
slot to put certain movies. Movies
like ‘‘Monty Python’s The Meaning of
Life’ is being shown this month, but
the earliest time it airs is tonight at
12:35.

But HBO does have its good points.
It shows a lot of good movies and also
shows movies that may not have
been good enough to pay to see in the
theaters, but are worth watching if
you have nothing to do.

“C.H.U.D.,” for instance, a movie
about people who live underground
and eat the people who live above
their sewer system home, would not

 

LEXINGTON PRESCRIPTION CENTER

Phone 463-9166

LEXINGTON

Emergency Phone 463-2671

11 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

VIRGINIA

ceed

 

 

 

 

 

(Pre-ott-so

 

 

Pri-aZ-Z0

 

you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo 1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

600 E.. Nelson
Lexington

 

 

Kat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

an
Pizza

$9 OFF

$2. off any large pizza
or $1 offany medium, In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

ef pon whe ering
sh redemy ‘ Yea Pieza H

  

Hut.

$a orF

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

a

11-7-85

SERVIOTAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

 

 

Wendell’s

Barber
Shop

| need your head for
my business.

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

 

J
3
a

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Joseph Martinez as Shylock, Dave Marsh as Bassanio, and Vernon Eagle as Antonio

HBO standing up to commercial TV

be something I would pay $4 to see at
a movie theater, but isn’t bad when
you get home from a party and aren’t
ready to sleep.

Another movie of this type is “‘Nin-
ja III: The Domination”’ which is also
showing this month. The, movie is
about some evil Ninja spirit who
enters a telephone worker’s body.
She is then taken over by this spirit
every once in a while and begins to
avenge the Ninja’s death by killing
the policemen that killed him.

In the end, love conquers all as the
women falls in love with one of the
policemen she is supposed to kill. His
love and the help of a good Ninja help
to destroy the spirit once and for all
because, as everyone knows, only a
Ninja can kill a Ninja.

The movie isn’t that bad if you
don’t take it too seriously. Some of
the super-Ninja tricks and acrobatics
are worth laughing at.

Another plus about HBO is it is on
all the time. If you like to watch a lit-
tle TV late Sunday night, most of
what you will find is religious pro-
gramming, professional wrestling or
stations signing off early. Although

not always the best movies are on
HBO at this time, it sure beats doing
that last bit of studying you have
been putting off all day.

Now back to commercial televi-
sion. ABC has moved one of its new
action thrillers to a new night. Start-
ing this Tuesday, ‘Spenser: For
Hire,”’ starring Robert Urich, will try
to take advantage of the success of
“Moonlighting” and follow it at 10.
This seems like a wise move as the
show will now compete against
“Remington Steele’ and a CBS
movie instead of ‘‘Falcon Crest” and
“Miami Vice.”’

Now for some of the highlights of
the week.

Saturday: Nothing special, aside
from the Monty Python movie on
HBO tonight, until late in the even-
ing. Then you have a choice between
two shows at 11:30. Robert Redford
stars in “The Great Gatsby’’ on
Channel 5 while NBC pulls out anoth-
er 90-minute David Letterman spec-
ial,

Sunday: At noon, the Alfred Hitch-
cock thriller, ‘‘To Catch a Thief”
comes on Channel 5. On the same sta-

tion is a movie about a chase through
time with Jack the Ripper in ‘“‘Time
After Time.” Channel 5 also will have
the sequel to ‘‘The Exorcist” on at 6
p.m. as “The Exorcist II: The
Heretic.”

Wednesday: For those nostalgic
about shows you watched when you
were young, CBS will air ‘‘It’s the
Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown’’
Wednesday at 8 p.m. Horror film
fans will enjoy watching ‘The
Omen”’ at 8 onchannel 12. WTBS also
has a good lineup for John Wayne
fans as ‘‘Big Jake’’ comes on at 8:05
and ‘‘Donovan’s Reef’’ follows at
10:10.

A final thought concerns ABC’s
football coverage on Monday night.
They usually get some good games,
but how long will they force us to put
up with Joe Namath? When 0O.J.
Simpson started in the booth with
Frank Gifford, I thought he was irri-
tating, but Namath is a nightmare.
I’m not sure how long even ABC can
put up with his comparing every
other play to a similar play he ex-
ecuted with amazing success when
he still played the game.

Taking a look at life after
college in ‘St. Elmo’s Fire’

 

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

The ensemble movie could be the
genre of the ’80s. With such hits as
“‘The Big Chill’ and ‘‘The Breakfast
Club,’’ ensemble movies serve as
popular showcases for several actors
to exhibit their varied talents. The
latest ensemble, ‘‘St. Elmo’s Fire,”
in its effort to show off its immensely
talented cast, deteriorates from a
great movie to a good movie. Its set-
ting is Georgetown, and its players
are seven friends, all recent grad-
uates of Georgetown University,
clinging to each other for comfort,
strength and security as they try to
adjust to the increased responsibili-
ties and complexities of life after col-
lege.

One could easily go on for hours
about the potential of this cast, all
members of Hollywood’s famed
“brat pack’’ crop of young talent.
The seven are Andrew McCarthy, Al-
ly Sheedy, Judd Nelson, Demi Moore,

Rob Lowe, Mare Winningham and
Emilio Estevez. A director could get
quite carried away at the possibility
of working with a collection of talent
this good.

In fact, director Joel Schumacher
(who co-wrote the script with Carl
Kurlander) seems to have done just
that. Watching the many quick cuts
from scene to scene and even shot to
shot gets, at times, distracting.
There just seems to be too much hap-
pening as we try to keep up with each
of the seven beginning life on his/her
own.

As former ties stretch, bend, and
are ultimately brought to the break-
ing point, the plot seems contrived to
pair each character with the others
one-on-one at some point in the film,
with the possible exception of Este-
vez, whose character seems more an
addendum lapped on for a touch of
comic relief.

Still, with these drawbacks in
mind, one has to appreciate the
humor and sincerity in this septet of
friends. Perhaps because it hits pret-

ty close to home, the image of life
outside academia was hardly rosy.
Insecurity, inability to cope with ser-
ious responsibility, and changing
convictions are all real to young
adults starting life on their own. It
would be “‘nice”’ to be able to hang on
to one’s past for strength at a time
like this, but as ‘St. Elmo’s Fire”
shows vividly, it is the people in your
life you must hang onto and grow
with.

Of the seven, Sheedy and McCar-
thy stand out from the crowd. As the
cynical, lovesick writer Kevin, Mc-
Carthy shows a good sense of comic
timing and dramatic depth. Sheedy is
enchanting, developing from the
“other half” of the perfect couple in-
to a young woman hoping to stand on
her own.

I liked ‘St. Elmo’s Fire” despite
its faults. It is far from a perfect
movie, but it is an entertaining movie
with several memorable scenes and
a look at life after college that is both °
frightening and hopeful at the same
time.

‘Invasion U.S.A.’: Norris at his best
in a simple-minded action movie

“Invasion U.S.A.”’ could be Chuck
Norris’ finest movie — which may
not say much to an Ingmar Bergman
fan, but to someone who enjoys a
simplistic, action, man-against-the-
odds movie, this says a lot.

Norris has been in more films over
the last few years than any other
leading man working today. None of
his roles have taken great acting
ability, but in this picture — perhaps
more than in any of his previous at-
tempts — Norris exhibits the kind of
screen presence it takes to be a lead-
ing action man. His terse, whispered
lines show he has learned quite a bit
from other movie tough guys, not-
ably Clint Eastwood and Charles
Bronson.

It’s interesting to note that Norris’
last few movies have been basically
retreads of other movie ideas ‘‘Miss-
ing in Action’’ and its sequel coming
from ‘Uncommon Valor’ and ‘‘Inva-
sion U.S.A.” from ‘‘Red Dawn.”
What is perhaps more interesting,
though, is that Norris’ movies are
generally made at a much lower cost
and turn much greater profits than
these others.

The story, though based on an in-
teresting premise — a terrorist inva-
sion of the United States — is hardly
difficult to follow. The terrorists’
plan is to invade major population
centers and start chaos, turning the
population against authorities.

Norris is, of course, the one man

 

who could hope to stop this seemingly
unstoppable plan. He also has a score
to settle with the leader of the ter-
rorists, played by perennial bad guy

Richard Lynch.
Questions are left unanswered
throughout — like how did Lynch get

away after the last time he and Nor-
ris met? And technical inaccuracies
crop up — like single-shell grenade
launchers that fire six shots like a
semi-automatic rifle. But who really
cares about these trivialities, right?
“Invasion U.S.A.” is a simple
minded action movie, and as such it
works well. Beyond this point, how
ever, it is little more than used cellu-
loid
By Tim McMahon
