-

-

-

~

~

~~

- ~ -

-

-

~

«

- * a

a ~ ° ~

“

   
   
    
  

 

 

 

: L

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 15

Rock ’n’ rollers

Law band forms
from Nabobs

Page 6

 

Rabble-rousers
Students sell

 

anti-coed T-shirts
Page 4

   
 

THE BEGINNING
OF AN ERROR!

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

40% chance of rain Friday;
showers possible all weekend

 

JANUARY 16, 1986

 

 

Real snow

A sudden snow flurry surprised students Monday morning and left a
dusting of snow that was gone in an hour. The National Weather Service says
higher temperatures in the extended forecast will keep any snow from fall-
ing in the near future in the Roanoke vicinity.

 

 

Girard suspended by SCC

 

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

 

Senior Gene Girard has been
suspended for the remainder of the
academic year for possession of co-
caine with the intent to distribute it.

The Student Control Committee
met for more than seven hours
Thursday night before convicting
Girard of the offense, which is
classified as ‘‘major’’ under
Washington and Lee’s disciplinary
rules.

The suspension, which Girard ap-
pealed, was upheld by the Student Af-
fairs Committee on Friday, accord-
ing to its chairman, Dean of Students
Lewis G. John.

Under new SCC guidelines that
took effect this year, the SCC could
have expelled Girard.

Girard, who came to W&L from
Coral Gables, Fla., in the fall of 1981,
is a former tri-captain of the football
team.

He was convicted Aug. 13 in
Rockbridge County Circuit Court
of possession of cocaine and sentenc-
ed to five years in prison, a sentence
that was suspended after he served
six months in the Rockbridge County
Jail.

A trial earlier in the summer, in
which Girard was charged with pos-
session with the intent to distribute,

Police arrest nine students

 

By SEAN BUGG
and JIM STRADER
Staff Reporters

 

Lexington police responding to a
noise complaint arrested nine
Washington and Lee students and one
former student on marijuana posses-
sion charges Sunday evening at one
of the students’ apartments.

A plastic bag containing less than
half an ounce of marijuana was Seiz-
ed, along with drug paraphernalia in-
cluding ‘‘a couple of bongs and a cou-
ple of pipes,”’ police said.

The students arrested are:

eGeorge Thomas Corrigan Jr., a
senior from Villanova, Pa.

eJames Edward Culnane, a senior
from Fitchburg, Ma.

*Frederick Paul Driscoll, a junior
from Dedham, Ma.

«Bradford Jenkins MacCachran, a
junior from Sudbury, Ma.

eWiiliam Allen Michaud, a senior
from Pearl River, N.Y.

*Christopher William Reavis, a
junior from New City, N.Y.

«Edward Augustus Richardson, a
senior from Holden, Ma.

eJohn Scott Schreiber,
from Williamsburg.

eWilliam Francis Zola, a senior
from Sudbury, Ma.

Also arrested Sunday was Gregory
Bryan Morcroft, W&L Class of 1985,
of Hollywood, Fla.

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton
said the arrests were made after
police responded to the noise com-
plaint at 201 E. Nelson St., Apt. G,
where Culnane and Michaud live.

a senior

A preliminary hearing has been set
for Feb. 18 at 9a.m.

The misdemeanor charge carries a
possible penalty of up to 12 months in
jail, a fine of up to $1,000, or both.

Court records show that of the 10
arrested, only Zola has a criminal
record in Rockbridge County. He was
convicted Oct. 15 in Lexington Dis-
trict Court of petty larceny charges
brought after an incident last spring
involving a stolen tub of wine valued
at $160.28 from Spanky’s restaurant.

Zola was given a 30-day suspended
jail sentence and fined $50. Records
show he appealed the conviction, but
last week he filed a motion to drop
that appeal and paid over $100 in
fines and court costs. Zola is schedul-
ed to appear in court Feb. 12 to dro
the appeal. :

Women to fill out sorority survey

 

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

begin.

with. She said she is unsure when colonization should

“We're still arguing about that.... don’t really think it

 

No one knows when or whether sororities will become a
part of Washington and Lee, but every female undergrad-
uate student on campus will be asked her opinion on these
issues in a survey that was distributed to them starting

this morning.

With the help of Dan N. Murphy, associate dean of
students, and sociology Professor David R. Novack, five
freshman women — Caroline Boone, Elizabeth Cum-
mins, Patience Jones, Anne Large and Melissa Thrasher
—composed a survey to evaluate the level of interest in
sororities among freshmen and upperciass women, They-
are hoping that the survey can be compiled within two or

three weeks.

If the survey reveals that as few as 30 percent of the
women are in favor of sororities, Murphy may still form
a committee to attend presentations given by the many
sororities that have shown interest in coming to Lex-

ington.

So far, between 11 and 15 have made serious inquiries
to Murphy’s office, but he has not told the students which

sororities he has been in contact with.

“We've got to start with something really strong na-
tionally,’’ said Large, one of the students Murphy met

INSIDE,

¢ Issues of health and housing will be a part of the planned Women's

Forum, page’

will be whiz kids, page 3

a half without competition, page 5

 

would be realistic to try to doit this year,’’ Large said.
Boone feels that the sooner, the better. ‘‘If we don’t get

started now, it’s going to bea lot harder in the future.”
Once the decision to bring a sorority onto campus is

made, the national chapters will have the students rush-

ed by either alumnae or by sorority members from near-

by colleges and universities with strong chapters.

Both Murphy and Cummins believe it would be more
beneficial to start with more than one colony. Most chap-
ters like to begin with at least 25 women, but it may be
that the sororities are so anxious to establish themselves
here, that they will be willing to start with fewer pledges.

Cummins said she’s hoping for at least three or four
sororities to start. ‘‘Two is just too competitive.”

‘No one’s going to be left out,’’ Boone said. ‘‘If we start
with four sororities, you may not get to be in the top one,
but everyone will be included.”

The five women seemed unconcerned about acquiring

a house if sororities take hold. Thrasher thought the
sororities were so optimistic that they may be willing to

buy a house fairly soon after colonizing. She explained

e Judging by this year’s early decision. applicants, the class of 1990
¢ Senior John Paul Bouffard just missed winning a Rhodes scholar-
ship at the finals in AUanta, page 4

¢ Associate Dean of Students Pamela Simpson will take the lead role
ina new University Theatre production, page 6

e The W&L swimmers return to action this weekend after a month and

 

 

that it would be possible to find a location for a sorority
“‘when the fraternities go down.”’

Board fires
Ariel editor

Senior Bob Strickland was dismis-
sed as editor of the literary magazine
Ariel by the University Publications
Board on Sunday.

The board said in a statement that
Strickland was removed ‘“‘for exer-
cising poor judgment in defacing a
library book in connection with the
preparation of the Winter 1985 issue
of the magazine.”

Applications for the position of
Ariel editor will be accepted in Carol
Calkins’ offic in Criversity
Center until Jan. 24 at 4:30 p.m

ended in mistrial. He was arrested
March 1 by Lexington police at the
East Lexington grocery store when
he went there to pick up a Federal
Express package, later found to con-
tain about an ounce of cocaine.

Girard, who did not attend classes
in the fall term, had applied for and
was granted re-admission for the
winter semester, according to John.
He said he did not know whether
Girard had attended any classes last
week.

While Girard was serving his
sentence, he participated in a com-
munity service project in Lexington
as part of a work-release program.
For his part of the ACCESS project,
Girard mapped the downtown and
historic areas of the city to help
determine whether those sections are
accessible to handicapped people.

During his time in jail, Girard also
worked in the W&L library on a
thesis for his major, and spoke
several times to church, athletic and
youth groups about his drug-related
experiences.

Senior Jay Kendall, one of Girard’s
roommates, said Girard left Lex-
ington Friday night for Washington,
D.C., and was planning to go to New
York City to interview at some ar-
chitecture firms. Girard’s major at
W&L is architectural history, an in-
dependent course of study.

Kendall said he was unsure of

 

Girard’s plans for the future but that
they might include returning to W&L
‘He told me that although it’s some-
what discouraging and frustrating,
that he plans on coming back in the
fall,’’ Kendall said.

The SCC, an all-student committee,
met for more than seven hours
Thursday night before convicting
Girard, according to John.

Senior Townes Pressler, chairman
of the SCC, would not say who
reported Girard’s case to the Com-
mittee and John said he wasn’t sure
how the case got to the SCC.

“I don’t remember if I officially
reported it,’’ John said. ‘“‘But there
has been so much publicity, that I'm
not sure it’s really important how it
got into Student Control channels.”’

SCC regulations state that follow-
ing a report to the committee of an
alleged offense, an investigation is to
be conducted by the chairman and
vice-chairman of the SCC. If the pos-
sibility exists that the offense is ma-
jor, the case is referred to a certifica-
tion committee, made up of the SCC
chairman, the SAC chairman and a
faculty member of the SAC.

Girard’s case was judged a major
offense by the certification commit-
tee of Pressler, John and Assistant
English Professor Jean C. Dunbar.

John said that at Girard’s hearing,
the SCC used transcripts from the

 

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Pi

Harmon Harden tosses one up in Saturday night's loss

Roanoke rivalry continues

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

There's always a huge crowd

Fred Palmer gave his prediction

The who?

See Roanoke, Page 4

 

As most of us know by now, Washington and Lee is a very traditional
place. And one of the biggest traditions during the month of January is
the W&L-Roanoke basketball game, a confrontation that often goes
beyond the 10 athletes on the floor of the Warner Center

According to WLUR-FM sportscaster Ken Jacoby, the place will be
packed for what has become simply ‘The Game.’
said the senior who will bring the
game to those who don't make it to the Warner Center tonight. ‘It’s by
far the most highly attended game otf the year

Junior Sam Foley agrees. ‘‘It’s intense. | don’t care what you say
it’s outrageous. It’s the best game of the year.”’

In Roanoke, the students are just as enthusiastic. Roanoke junior
“Were going to wipe them out, as
always.” W&L hasn't beaten Roanoke since 1982

Sophomore Anna Liles expressed her view on the game: ‘'It’s one of
the main focuses down here at Roanoke. You wait until we get there.”

But don’t count on the W&L fans getting outdone by their Roanoke
counterparts. Not as long as the Unknown Fans are around

 

 

court proceedings last summer as a
basis for its questioning of Girard.

Girard’s advocate at the hearing,
third-year W&L law student Steuart
Thomas, said the defense he present-
ed was that Girard had no intent to

distribute the cocaine, thus making
the offense a minor rather than a ma-
jor charge. Minor offenses carry
possible penalties such as cash fines,
social probation or conduct proba-
tion.

Thomas said the hearing Thursday
evening lasted about three hours, and
that he and Girard were informed of
the SCC decision several hours later
that night.

Thomas said his primary function
at the hearing was to make opening
and closing statements for Girard
and to advise him in answering ques-
tions from the committee.

Because the student and faculty
SAC can only lighten sentences pass-
ed by the SCC, “‘it would'be stupid not
to appeal,’ according to Thomas.

At the SAC hearing Friday, a tape
of part of the SCC proceeding was
played.

Senior John Lewis, student body
president and a member of the SAC,
said that at the hearing, Girard’s
defense was the same as it had been
before the SCC.

“He thought it should have been a
minor offense because he had no in-
tent to distribute,’ Lewis said.

Sweet Briar
security

tightened

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

An “inexperienced” attacker has
attempted unsuccessfully to rape
Sweet Briar College students in two
separate incidents this month,
prompting concern and increased
security on the campus, officials say.

Director of College Security Jesse
F. Miller said that on Monday, a
Washington and Lee student ‘‘almost
caught the guy’’ when he saw the
suspect lurking in a parking lot.

The student said, ‘Hey! What are
you doing?” and “‘the guy ran into
the woods,”’ according to Miller. An
unsuccessful two-hour search follow-
ed.

Miller said the attacks appear to be
attempted sexual assaults. ‘‘Why
would you jump on a girl and tackle
her on the ground?” he asked. ‘“‘It’s
not robbery; rape is the only obvious
motive.”

“These failures on two attempts
show that he’s not very experienc-
ed,” Miller added. ‘‘This man seems
to be nervous and would try to build
up his confidence by talking to’ the
victims.

The first attack was Jan. 7 at about
11:55 p.m., when the man approach-
ed a sophomore outside Meta Glass
residence hall and asked her for
directions, Miller said.

The man followed her into the dor-
mitory elevator, still repeating the
directions, pretending he was lost.
When the door began to close and he
was in the elevator, ‘‘she realized
that she was in trouble,” according to
Miller

The second attack was Sunday
around 6:20 p.m. on two seniors walk-
ing along Lake Road toward the
school’s boathouse. He said it was
near the intersection with the road to
the president's house and is ‘‘not a
secluded area.’ The assailant was
pretending to be a jogger, according
to Miller

‘He tackled her and knocked her to
the ground,”’ he said of the attack on
the first woman. ‘‘He tried to get on
top of her but she fought back with
her fists.”’ Miller said that when the
other student resisted, the attacker
‘carried her about five feet on his
back” before he ‘“‘dropped her and
ran

“We had a real problem with doors
being propped open; that has stop-
ped,’ Miller noted. ‘We've tripled
and quadrupled our patrols.”

“It's put a strain on all of us,”’ ad-
ded Commander Willie H. Neal of
Sweet Briar Security
 

 

 

 

OPINION
Burned

WRARG) ‘TiPaave,
I though eve would be the ideat timé fo study in the library. A
Thursday ev atythe beginnitigeef the term to want to get
the assigned work done weekSf advance.

I obviously was mistaken.

After all, it is not any Thursday evening (or so I hope) that
one can observe students playing out their pyrotechnic fan-
tasies on trash cans in the library.

You know the situation: the trash can is full of scrap paper
or old newspapers. Someone, on a dare or just out of lunacy,
decides to light a match and throw it into the trashcan in the
middle of the floor. Maybe a flame, as was the case last
week, or smoke or both will rise from the union of paper with
lit match. What joy that creates in the hearts of the youthful
pyrotechnics.

And what disorder it creates for those trying to study. Not
only do the shouts of glee from the successful arsonists-to-be
distract one’s attention from fascinating study of American
political theory, but the children also insist on chasing each
other about one end of the library, perhaps out of a sado-
masochistic desire to have the next match applied to some
part of their anatomy.

 

It is not difficult, for most rational people, to see what is
wrong in this situation. Not only does the smoke freely float-
ing about the library floors damage the books, but it also
damages the eyes and lungs and throats of those students
who might — just might — have wanted to study that even-
ing.

Every year, someone always has a complaint about the
library. Either it’s too noisy or too crowded or filled with VMI
cadets or the books are never shelved that you’re looking for
or someone has “‘borrowed”’ a text or notes from your carrel
without permission. Lighting fires and playing with matches
outside of the designated smoking areas on each floor is a
quaint addition to the old complaints, but it is also one I think
we could do without. The library is too fine a facility to be
wasted on juvenile minds or by juvenile actions.

While this year’s freshman class may be touted as the best
and the brightest, certain members of that group have to
learn a few lessons in library etiquette. Especially important
among those first few rules is one I thought they (like every
other class here) would have learned in kindergarten — don’t
play with matches. _NRP

Technical foul

They call it ‘The Game.”’

The Unknown Fans will be there. Professors and students
will attend in droves. Ten students will run up and down a
wooden floor and throw a round orange ball into a steel, cir-
cular rim for 40 minutes. People will cheer from both sides of
Warner Center.

But unlike past years, it won’t be odd to see the bleachers
filled. Students have been attending basketball games this
year in great numbers. Apathy, often a common ailment in
recent years plaguing attendance at athletic events, seems to
have gone the way of single-sex education.

But while it is nice to see students and faculty taking
greater visible pride in the school through public support of
athletic teams, it is also disheartening to hear of students be-
ing charged with misdemeanors for possession of illegal sub-
stances or students being suspended from school for posses-
sion and possible distribution of cocaine.

Life may be full of incongruities, but to see students taking
pride in self and school through public attendance of sporting
events while members of the same student body — people
who also represent the Washington and Lee reputation in the
community — are busy making noise or doing bong hits
seems both out of place and unnecessary.

Although the Admissions Office deserves applause for
recruitment of a very competitive early-decision class, we
wonder why, at times, the people would want to come here.
When we see a full house at a Warner Center match-up, we
know why this school exists and why we take pride in it.

But when we have to report, week after week the public
relations blunders with the Lexington community, we often
wonder what value students (including us) have in the
scheme of things. When we can’t keep our act clean, or when
we can’t keep the noise down, it seems of little consolation
that attendance is up at basketball games or that Roanoke
will be crushed tonight .

Che KRing-tum Phi

   
 
 

NEWS STAFF
Executive Editor con edbeeee see 0000 ceeueseeseseseess0050s 540555 525s NUD
ee arc eee Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
PRE Nh his a 9 A kk Reade Williams
I sisi chastise itr Te ere
News Editer..,....... itaee ... Jim Strader
Photography Editor......... ... Steve Sadler
Chief Copy Editor .......... ... Matt Horridge
Entertainment Editor............... . Marshall Boswell
re ysis sbini doo ois bee ae beb busts oie eie ei Jason Lisi

Assistant Sports Editor
EDITORIAL PAGE

Eh ih cbekbs Chieei cect i
ee Marie Kothman
Cartoonist Os Chris Bowring

vebeseebehebeeeeceseeetsteceeey eases eserreeys David Emrich

BUSINESS STAFF

Business Manager ‘i See Jeff Kimbell

AGVOTURING MIGRREOR boii ie PONS bisdececd ecient as Hank Greenberg

AA VALAIN GROEN ih oe hcl ah WOE eee van John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,
Jay Reville, Greg Turley

Civcvidgon MONGKEE iiceccccecscivecvenecerscececeecsbeseersecsssis Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent,

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

(COLD CHECK AEROBICS)

 

 

Gentlemen don’t fight over sexism

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

I always thought one of the major
goals of coeducation was the assimi-
lation or integration of women into
the W&L student body. Everything, I
was once led to believe, would then
proceed normally, as at most other
schools.

I believe we ought to attempt to
achieve this goal, but some people
—including many in the faculty and
administration — just can’t let well
enough alone. Their efforts seem to
be the proverbial three steps back-
ward for the two forward others
seem to make.

For example, consider all the re-
cent flurry of statistics on how
women and men (wouldn’t it be
easier — and less sexist — just to say
students?) are doing at this school.
The faculty and administration have
gone to great lengths to compare,
compile, record and announce to the
world the grades of freshman males
and females. The emphasis is on how
the sexes differ, which ironically is
just the opposite of the professed goal
of many administrators to create a
“sexless”? atmosphere. There have
been attempts to change the names
of courses, i.e., “The Descent of

Can sophomores control the

 

MY VIEW
By John Pensec

 

The more things change, the more
they remain the same. An old saying,
perhaps, but a very accurate one.
With the inclusion of rising sopho-
mores as potential dorm counselors,
the selection process has changed.
But at least there is still the
understanding that these men and
women have an important role in the
Washington and Lee community.
However, are sophomores up to the
task?

Every student remembers those
first few days at W&L and the feel-
ings of anxiety that accompanied it.

For those who were leaving home
for the first time it was a rough time,
but even for those who had been
away from home before, there were
cases of nerves to be dealt with.

Walking into the empty room that
was to be my home for the next year,
my stomach did flip-flops as I listen-

To the editors:

tional Enquirer.

publication.

 

I wish to compliment Jason Lisi on his superb
piece of investigative reporting. Who would
guess the Ariel could be subject to such scandal?
I find it comforting that at least one member of
the student body has the guts and determination
necessary to make it as a reporter for the Na-

Since I share an apartment with Mr. Strick-
land, the editor in question, I think I am more
aware of the circumstances than the average
W&L student. I watched Bob on many an occa-
sion working on both the layout and the design.
He wanted to do something new and interesting
with a previously undistinguished student

The Scavullo interview offered a chance to add
this new dimension. The pictures were to help
the reader realize that Scavullo was known in
most magazine and art circles, if not to the stu-

Man,” that might seem offending to
the freshman women (never mind
that the students in question were
never consulted on this matter). You
people advocating ‘‘Hu-person-
kind’’: Geta real cause.

Who really cares that seven out of
the top 10 students in the freshman
class were women? Oh well. That’s
very interesting. Does the desire to
know these “‘sexist’’ facts and figures
stem from faculty insecurity? Are
the faculty and administration hop-
ing to prove that the freshman
females are smarter than the fresh-
man males?

Well as long as we’re gathering
statistics, let’s find out how much
time the average freshman male was
committed to spending on extra-cur-
ricular activities (such as pledging a
fraternity) as compared to the
average freshman female. Let’s find
out how much the grades of males
and females differed in English and
math, to see if the old gender-based
(or are they genetic?) stereotypes
are true. Let’s also see how women
did in P.E. courses as compared to
men. Maybe that will prove men
might (heavens! ) be more athletical-
ly inclined. Let’s figure the ratio for
how many women skipped classes on
Thursdays (after Wednesday night

ed to the echo of my footsteps. In
time, the room would become livable
with the addition of rugs and posters,
but it lacked the comforts of home.
Being livable was a long way off. For
now, it consisted of four beige walls
anda tile floor.

The same was true of the Universi-
ty in general. At first, it was nothing
more than buildings and unknown
people.

As I joined clubs and got involved
with my classes, the University
began to take ona new dimension.

For the first few days, the world
was contained in the dormitory,
which my parents had seen. They
had also met my dorm counselor, and
the meeting did them good. Over the
course of the year, if I had a problem
] was urged by my parents to talk to
him. He took on the role, not of sur-
rogate parent, but of an adviser
whose opinion should be sought.
After all, my parents reasoned, as an
upperclassman he had been around
the block and knew the ins and outs of
the school.

As a hall, we decided the rules we
would live by. The only concrete rule
established for us by our dorm
counselor was to try to work out any

parties) as compared to men. How
many more men’s restrooms are
there than ladies rooms? That might
prove men have weaker bladders.
How interesting and what an intellec-
tual pursuit for the intellectually in-
clined. How many freshman men
have cars as compared to women?
After all, women don’t have to drive
to VMI. Maybe the men need more
cars to drive to the restroom. How
often do freshman females do their
laundry as compared to males? (Oh,
I forgot, we already know that one.)

What purpose would the gathering
of all these statistics serve? None.
Satisfaction of intellectual (after all,
that is why the faculty and ad-
ministration are here, to guide
students in the cultivation of the
mind) curiosity maybe, but that’s
about it. Comparing the grades of the
males and females in the freshman
class only promotes rivalry. No, the
freshman women aren’t goddesses or
super women, They are students who
are here to do the best they can. As
one freshman male put it: ‘‘There
are men in the freshman class too.”’

But why is the administration so
constantly compelled to compare the
female students to everybody else?
Do they need to reassure themselves
that coeducation was the right move?

problems among ourselves before we
went to him.

Living in the dorms that first year
taught me a lot about myself and
about other students. But the learn-
ing came, not only from doing, but
also from following an example, that
of my dorm counselor.

I had the benefit of his experience,
and I learned from his mistakes. He
told me what he thought was the best
way to get through my distribution
requirements and which professors
should be avoided. Can sophomores
do this if they are still completing
their General Education require-
ments?

A counselor is, to a degree, a
representative of stability. Up-
perclassmen have the advantage
because they have been here longer
and are more comfortable with the
system. They have a major and are
working toward completing it.
Sophomores do not have to declare
until the end of the year and will be
spending, one hopes, a lot of time
making this important decision. How
much time then will be left for the
freshmen as they struggle with these
decisions?

There is a tendency at the end of

LETTERS

dents at iarge. Granted, cutting the pictures out
of a library book was not in the best judgment;
but with a deadline it was the easiest.

What I do find appalling is Mr. Lisi’s implica-
tion that Monica Burke had plagiarized the inter-
view. It seems, having not found the scandal he
so desperately sought in the pictures, that he
grabbed at straws. We must realize that there
are a finite number of questions one can ask
these people. Miss Burke would have had to have
done extensive research to have not asked him
an already used question. Obviously Mr. Lisi has
not read many interviews or I’m sure his inquir-
ing mind would have discerned this.

Let us rest this ‘scandal’ next to his previous
“attempted scandal’’ and merely dismiss it to

Reader defends the actions of Ariel editor

To quesuon Bob's authority to print those pic-
tures is understandable. The copyright laws
could have placed the University in a quandary if
he had not obtained permission. But the point re-
mains that he did have permission.

experience. Hopefully Mike Allen will watch his
contributors in the future.

Student clarifies gun policy

1'o the Editors:

Student Control has asked me to write this let-
ter explaining the University’s policy on fire-
arms. There are to be no guns in the dorms. Any-
one living in the dorms who wishes to keep a fire-
arm atschool for hunting must store it with Dean
Huntley for safekeeping. Handguns are not per-
mitted. Students not living in the dorms are not
subject to any school policy but are subject to
state, county and city laws. Lexington law pro-
hibits the carrying of a loaded firearm and the
discharging of a firearm within city limits.

Or is it that certain members want to
rub the noses of other members (who
were initially against coeducation) in
the success of the move? Are they
trying to say, “Look at just how
wrong you were?” After all, this is
supposed to be the school for ‘‘gentle-
men’ (a genderless term, we have
been repeatedly told). How easily
certain members of the faculty and
administration seem to forget this
basic definition of civility and decen-
cy. Where have good manners gone?

If one has a cause to promote in all
of this (feminism, perhaps), then
fine. State it as such. Lay your
motives on the table. But itseems an —
awful lot of finger pointing and ,
change is being done in the name of
coeducation that really does more
harm than good. Changing the names
of courses that are offensive to a
small minority often ends up as of-
fensive to the majority.

In the words of another freshman,
someone needs to choose their battles
better. Everyone needs to take a long
look before doing any more leap-
ing. Fighting over what most people
consider: trivial details is not in the
best interest of the freshmen or the
student body. It is petty. And it ;
reflects as poorly on the school as
does any publicized honor trial.

dorms?

the freshman year tor students to
think they know it all, and because of
this sophomore year comes as quite a
shock. No dorm counselor is there to —
help solve problems between room-
mates. No quiet hours exist to help
students manage time. This second
year helps a student mature and, I
believe, is necessary before someone
is entrusted with guiding other
students during that first year. How
can a student really help guide
another student to maturity if he has
not had the maturing experience of
living on his own?

After freshman year, W&L be-
comes an entirely different place.
Professors suddenly become more
than people who lecture at you. They
become human beings you can talk ,
to.

During orientation, University
President John D. Wilson tried to
sum up the characteristics of my
class. This is a hard enough task at
graduation, let alone the first week of
school.

It takes time for the true leaders of
a class to emerge. Once they do, it’s
time for them to become dorm coun-
selors, and not before.

James Hansen
Class of '87

Drake Fason
Class of '88

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

NEWS

 

= Stilt
By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

A Women’s Forum that will ad-
dress some of the concerns voiced by
treshman women is in the planning

tages, Associate Dean of Students
Anne C.P. Schroer said this week.

“Several women have come in to
usk about developing programs that
will begin to meet the needs of
women students,”’ Schroer said.

Areas the forum will be involved
th, each of which will have its own
@ommittee, are housing and loung-
yg, health and counseling, leader-
ship, social, recreation and athletics,
Greek, academic advising and
gareer issues, spiritual growth and
development, and community ser-
vice. Each committee will have an
@dviser from the W&L or Lexington
gommunities.

Associate Dean of the College
®amela Simpson, who was chairman
af the Coeducation Committee, said
the committee members heard re-
eatedly at a series of freshman hall
meetings in the fall that the
freshman women did not have a
thance to meet other W&L women,
that they ‘‘felt isolated to their own
living unit.”

“There was the feeling that guys
have the fraternities but the women
don’t have anything comparable,”

Early decision

applicants’
SATs soar

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

 

Washington and Lee has become,
in the words of Assistant Director of
Admissions Julia M. Kozak, ‘‘a very
selective institution.”

“We've become a very popular
school,” Kozak said in an interview
Tuesday. Moreover, she continued,
‘We have every reason to believe
that the academic standards here at
the University will increase both
quantitatively and qualitatively.”

Of the 214 applications received
before the Dec. 1 early acceptance
deadline, 75 were offered admission,
a-“‘conservative”’ 35 percent accep-
tance rate. Last year, 52 percent of
early decision applications were ap-
proved for admission. Kozak discour-
aged any further comparisons, citing
the familiar analogy of ‘‘apples and
oranges.”’

The average SAT score jumped
from 1157 to this year’s 1207, while
the average class rank increased
four percentage points from the 79th
to the 83rd percentile.

she said.

Dormitory counselor Sydney Mar-
thinson stressed that “‘it’s not a
feminist group.”

“Many of the programs will be
open to both men and women stu-
dents, faculty and staff, and com-
munity members at large,”’ Schroer
said.

Valerie Pierson, a freshman who
supported the Executive Commit-
tee’s decision to appoint a temporary
female member to the Student Con-
trol Committee, said she sees the
Women’s Forum as “‘having the po-
tential to be a very positive thing on
campus.”

‘“‘My main concern is that the guys
won't respond to it positively,”’ she
said.

Susan Lewis, a freshman who op-
posed the appointment of an ad hoc
woman on the SCC, said she supports
the planned Women’s Forum.

“It would be useful, and I would
participate in it, but part of my par-
ticipation would stem from the fact
that through my conservative views
on the issues, a working balance
could be brought about,”’ Lewis said.

Dormitory counselor Kathleen
Plante said the forum could help br-
ing about needed changes in health
care for the women students.

“T feel as if the Women’s Forum
could help in that area. And with con-
cern to Greek life, this could either

help in organizing sororities or help
find out more closely student in-
terest,’’ Plante said.

Pierson said, ‘‘As far as frater-
nities are concerned, we're always
welcomed and invited to go there, but
we're not members — we're perpet-
ual guests. I'm not opposed to fra-
ternities at all; I simply think it
would be nice to have some reason-
able alternative.”’ :

Lewis added that there are some
changes she would like to see made

‘Housing sticks out in my mind,”
she said. “With women here now, I
don’t really think the University’s do-
ing enough to help us find someplace
to live.”

She said she became concerned
after visiting a realtor and learning
that it might be too late to find off-
campus housing for next year.

The housing sheet freshmen
received in their orientation packet
“didn’t put enough emphasis on it,
that it needed to be done immediate-
ly,” Lewis said.

On the general issue of coeduca-
tion, Lewis said she feels that she has
been accepted pretty well.

“T always got the impression that
the guys, although they might have
been against it at first, knew there
was nothing they could do to change
it, so they might as well make the
best of it,”” Lewis said.

But, she cautioned, “‘If things are

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

Appointment of SCC woman postponed

 

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

The Executive Committee is reviewing its power to
appoint a female ad hoc non-voting member to the Stu-
dent Control Committee, according to EC President
John Lewis

The EC approved a motion to appoint a female ad hoc
non-voting member to the SCC by a 7-6 vote last month.
The EC has accepted no applications for that position
because it canhot find evidence in the Student Body
Constitution that it has the power to create that posi-

said in an interview yesterday. ‘‘My opinion is yes.”’
“I’m sorry the appointment was not done before,
John said.

“The EC is questioning its authority to do so because
the Student Control Committee is a creation of the
faculty and the faculty has nowhere said that the EC
can do this,”’ he added

“This is a legitimate question that they can raise as to
their authority.”

The point was raised at Monday’s meeting My senior
Representative Michael Black.

“Now that it’s voted upon, I really think we need to

Forum planned to address women’s issues

 

tion

“Our very ability to make that vote is in question,”

Lewis said.

Senior Representative Pat Hayden said he asked
Dean of Students Lewis G. John if the EC has the power

to appoint an ad hoc member.

“There is no simple answer to that question,”’ John

 

act on it,”’ Black said.

Hayden read a letter from John that outlined John's
opinion on the matter.

“The Executive Committee may, at its discretion, ap-
point such ad hoc non-voting members as it deems ap-
propriate,” Hayden read. He continued to say that John
recommended that a female SCC position be created.

 

 

pushed too far toward feminism
rather than just coeducation, they’re
going to start resenting it.”’

Pierson said that she has noticed
opposition to coeducation and “the
proverbial chip on the shoulder’
coming from freshmen as well as up-
perclassmen.

Simpson said the Coeducation

 

fae, Pic
In the trenches

Columbia Gas of Virginia workmen lay a main gas line
through the front yard of Chi Psi and along Lee Avenue
this week as part of the re-routing caused by Washington
and Lee’s plans to build its new dormitory. Harold
Washington, Columbia Gas’ plant and service supervisor
in Lexington, explained that the main gas line that con-
nects W&L and Virginia Military Institute with the gas
pipeline that serves Lexington currently runs under the

   

ngvaty

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi’

planned dormitory site. Because of maintenance pro-
blems with gas lines under buildings, and because W&L
owns the land for the dormitory, Columbia Gas is having
to re-route the line up Nelson Street, across Lee Avenue
and down Washington Street to Jefferson Street, where it
will meet the old line. Washington said that with good
weather the work should be done by the first week in

February.

 

‘Staff Reports

 

 

: A former Washington and Lee student pleaded guilty
‘to felony charges of credit card theft and fraud yester-
‘day and was fined $500 and given a 12-month suspended
‘sentence in Rockbridge County Circuit Court.
‘ Felton Edwin May II, 20, of Harrisburg, Pa. pleaded
‘guilty to charges of receiving a lost credit card with the
. ‘intent to use, and forgery. He confessed to Lexington
‘Police Sgt. Torben Pedersen last spring that he found a

* ‘brown wallet belonging to David A. Shugart, a W&L stu-

‘dent, and that he used an AT&T calling card that was in
‘Shugart’s grandmother’s name. May also confessed to

’ ‘purchasing several items at the College Town Shop in

‘Lexington with a Visa card that also belonged to

‘Shugart.

Commonwealth's Attorney Beverly C. ‘“‘John’’ Read

- ‘opened the case by questioning Pedersen about May’s

‘confession. Pedersen testified that May confessed to

‘having taken the two credit cards on Feb. 10, the day

- ‘they were reported missing by Shugart. Pedersen also

said May told him he tried using the card that evening

and proceeded to make 104 calls totalling $160.31 be-
tween that day and sometime near the end of March.

_ Pedersen testified that May told him he purchased
two rugby shirts and other items from the College Town
Shop, paying for them on the store’s voucher.

» Several other W&L students were involved in making
some of the telephone calls with Shugart’s credit card.
Two students, Walter Hopkins and Calvin Rankin, were

. convicted of misdemeanors in June in Rockbridge
County District Court.

Pedersen completed his testimony by reading a state-

» ment from May that explained May’s inability to cope

_ with the W&L environment.

“It was a way of getting back at them,”’ the statement

said. “It a is a racist school. They are all rich and they
treat us (minorities) like dirt.”’

May’s attorney, Bernard J. Natkin of Lexington ques-
tioned Pedersen about who actually picked up the wal-
let since there was some confusion on the point. In his
closing remarks, Natkin told Judge George E. Honts III
that May was unable to cope with his environment and,
although his actions were wrong, ‘‘he was just trying to

_ Bet back at the system.”

~

<

 

«

*

~

<

—Rick Pierce
Dining hall to help MDA

Contract and point-card patrons of Evans Dining Hall
can support the Muscular Dystrophy Association Super-
dance by giving up their Tuesday dinner with the pro-
ceeds going to the MDA.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

 

Ex-student pleads guilty to fraud

Signups for the donation will be in the dining hall dur-
ing Monday dinner and Tuesday lunch.

Roadtrips to the slave auctions and happy hours to
promote the dance will leave from Fairfax Lounge for
Hollins College at 5:30 p.m. today, Sweet Briar College
at 3:45 p.m. Friday and Randolph-Macon Women’s Col-
lege at 6:45 p.m. on Tuesday.

Check charge matter resolved

The Student Financial Relations Committee first was
irked when it learned that Domino’ s Pizza was charg-
ing students 20 cents to write checks to defray the cost,
the committee thought, of bad checks. After all, the pur-
pose of the committee, better known as Cold Check, is to
guarantee students’ checks for local merchants.

The problem was cleared up when it was learned that
the 20-cent charge is to defray regular bank charges
and is a national policy.

The surprise came when the committee was covering
a bad check written to Domino's by a student — and the
committee’s check to Domino’s required a 20-cent
charge.

“It’s pretty much all cleared up,’’ Chairman Peter
Bennorth told the Executive Committee Monday night
He said he talked to the manager of the local pizza
delivery store, who decided to drop the 20-cent charge
on the committee’s checks.

Bennorth said the problem was not with the 20-cent
charge as much as the idea of being charged to write a
check when the committee performs a service to local
businessmen.

“It isn’t the amount, it’s the principle,”’ he said.

“I don’t want to argue over 20 cents,’’ explained
Domino’s manager Tim Camden. The charge, he said,
is to defray costs the bank charges to process the
checks as well as other costs. ‘“‘It falls into all kinds of
categories,’ Camden said.

He added that the amount the bank charges him for
handling and processing his checks is high. ‘‘It’s more
than you would believe,’ Camden said

Camden said that while he places a charge of $10 on
community members who write bad checks, he waives
this charge in cases of students because of the services
of the Cold Check Committee.

In other EC action, President John Lewis said Dean
Lewis G. John told him the positions of sophomore dor-
mitory counselors would probably only be considered
for next year. According to Lewis, the law student dorm
counselors are being ‘‘phased out’ and sophomores will
not be dorm counselors after next year

— Jason Lisi

 

 

Committee heard some humorous
complaints from several freshman
men during the fall dormitory
meetings that they have to do things
they wouldn’t have had to do if
Washington and Lee were all-male.
Things cited included ‘“‘taking
showers and combing their hair and
being conscious of what they wear to

class,”’ Simpson said.
Schroer explained several of the
programs she foresees the Women’s
Forum offering students, including
two or three sessions of leadership
training during the winter term.

An organizational meeting for the
forum will be held Friday, Jan. 31, at
3 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge.

ODK to initiate 27
at Monday ceremony

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
collegiate leadership society founded
at Washington and Lee in 1914, will
induct 27 new undergraduate and law
student members at its convocation
ceremony Jan. 20.

Five juniors, 15 seniors and seven
law students will be initiated, as will
4honorary alumni members. Though
the inductees have been notified,
their names are kept secret until the
ceremony.

The selection process for ODK,
which recognizes student leaders in
various areas of campus life, has
been questioned in the past by some
student leaders who have been pass-
“ed over.

. According to Religion Professor
David W. Sprunt, a faculty member
of ODK, this situation comes about
because the selection committee is
limited by the national charter of the
society to considering only students
in the top 35 percent academically of
the school. Several times in the past,
Sprunt says, and again this year,
campus leaders will be barred from

membership because of their grades.

Senior David Lewis, student presi-
dent o1 UUK agreed, “Everyone is
considered,” he said. ‘‘W&L is small
enough that no one falls through the
cracks.”’

While the society is leadership and
character-oriented, Lewis says, the
35 percent guideline has to be follow-
ed. Decisions about students who are
on the border academically are held
off until the end of the fall semester
to give them a chance to improve
their grades.

As far as deciding who the student
leaders are, Lewis conceded that the
decisions are subjective. ‘Basically,
a lot of itis a judgment call,”’ he said.

The class schedule for Monday will
be affected by the convocation. ‘‘A’’
through “‘D”’ hours will remain the
same, with the convocation running
from noon to 1:25. The rest of the
schedule follows.

E — 1:30-2:10
F — 2:15-2:55
G—3-3:40

H — 3:45-4:25
I— 4:30-5:10
J —5:15-5:55

 

What do
you think
of the idea

of sororities

at W&L?

 

Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON

Photographs by
HANK MAYER

 

 

New

Whann,
Orleans: ‘I think it’s going to add
an interesting new dimension. I
like the way the administration is
letting the girls make the deci-

Sandy senior,

sions about sororities. Without
support from girls, it wouldn't
have the positive impact that it
could.’

TALKBACK

 

Gretchen Bell, freshman,

 

 

Lynchburg
freshman, Winchester: ‘‘We don’t want them. We think the girls have it good
now because we get the social life without any of the responsibilities.”’

(left), and Beth Cousland,

 

Jim Godfrey, junior, Johnson
City, Tenn.: ‘It could be a good
thing. I mean, this past weekend |
went skiing with some sorority
girls from Florida State and it
seemed a lot different for them. It
seemed like they had a decent
relationship with the guys they
went to school with. They had a lot
in common because they'd been
throu;, . a type of pledgeship.”’

Susan Lewis, freshman, Wacha
preague: ‘‘I think it would be nice
to have them. It would do a lot for
the social life because the girls
won't have to depend on frater
nities. But, then again, it’s pro
bably too soon because | don't

think there are enough girls here
to start two or three sororities. It }
would be too competitive.”’

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

 

 

AIA not welcome, leaders say

 

SIMON PEREZ
if Reporter

ed on various campuses, began monitoring classes in
September and publish their findings in a monthly publi

cation

 

in Academia, a group formed to
propagandizing by professors in college class
across the country, would meet harsh opposition
Washington and Lee, according to faculty and student

leaders.

Adamantly opposed to such investigations is Dean of
the Commerce School Edward C. Atwood. He said stu-
dents making reports on class lectures would ‘‘make pro-
fessors feel under attack’ and also would ‘‘curb acade-

mic freedom.”

Although noting that ‘biases are present”’ in all class-
rooms, Atwood said that he knows of no professors at
W&L that would not ‘give students an opportunity to
speak” in class and to challenge what professors are

teaching.

AIA, which gets its information from students recruit-

monitor

Reed Irvine, AIA's founder, also. began Accuracy in
Media, which attacked what he perceived as the liberal
biases in the national news media. He began AIA because
he thought college students were being exposed to only
one point of view.

AIA’s executive director, Les Csorba III, defends his
group's actions by saying that professors should not be
immune from criticism.

W&L’s College Republican chairman, junior John
Pensec, said it was ‘“‘not AIA’s responsibility” to deal
with propagandizing problems.

“If there are problems, they should be taken care of
within the school, internally,’’ he said. Pensec disagreed

with ‘‘an outside organization deciding right and wrong”’

on college campuses.

T-shirts show anti-coed sentiment

 

oe
By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

‘‘Women at W&L: The beginning of
an error!” So proclaim T-shirts be-
ing sold at the local women’s colleges
by two W&L students.

The shirts, which have the above
words along with the picture of a
female student with a red slash
through her on the back, and ‘“‘The
Roadtrip Continues °85-'86"’ on the
front, have been selling briskly so
far, according to sophomores Brad
Shaw and Lester Coe, the two stu-
dents who came up with the idea.

About 170 of the shirts have been
sold to students at the other schools,
and about 50 have been sold to W&L
students of both sexes at a price of
$8.

Shaw and Coe are quick to point out

Senior loses

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

 

Although five Washington and Lee
students applied for the prestigious
Rhodes scholarships and one made it
to the finals in Atlanta, it was a
Hampden-Sydney student who won
the Virginia award this year.

W&L’s John-Paul Bouffard made it
to the finals after applying with
Gerald Shepard, Mike McAlevey,
Ted LeClereq and Larry Anker. The
five seniors applied in early autumn
for the scholarship, which provides
for two free years’ study at Oxford
University in England.

Shepard, McAlevey and Bouffard
were selected to be interviewed in the
semi-finals. Bouffard was _ then
chosen to advance to the final inter-
view in Atlanta.

Of his prospects for winning in
Atlanta, Bouffard said, ‘‘I thought I
had a good chance. I wasn’t expect-

 

Roanoke

Continued from Page 1

 

The Unknown Fans — an...enthu-
siastic group of W&L students who
annually attend the Roanoke game
wearing bags over their heads to con-
ceal their identities.

According to Chris Komosa, a four-
year bag-head, the Unknown Fans
will be present and accounted for on
Thursday night.

“We'll be out in full strength again
this year,” he said.

Komosa added that the purpose of
the Unknown Fans is to promote par-
ticipation from the W&L side of the
bleachers.

“We just want to have fun and get
the fans involved. We try to keep
ourselves calm and try not to get
anybody mad,”’ Komosa said.

In the past, the Unknown Fans
have found it hard to restrain their
enthusiasm, continued Komosa. In
1983, the officials had to stop the
game to move them off the court, and
in 1984, a fight broke out after the
game, the blame of which was even-
tually pinned on the Unknown Fans.

“The whole thing looked like it was
our fault, but we really had nothing to
do with it,’ said Komosa. He also
said that this year the group will be
‘a little more restrained.”

One group that won’t be restrained
in the least is the W&L starting five.
Although half the team is new to the
rivalry, the players realize what
they're in for.

‘Roanoke is always a big game,
always tense and physical,”’ said
junior forward Jefferson Harralson.
“T expect a good team effort.”’

Rob Spencer, another junior for-

ird, had this to say: “This is our
year to beat them, it’s the best team
we've had since I've been here.”’

Head coach Verne Canfield down-
played the rivalry. ‘‘This year, it’s
not nearly as important,”’ said the 22-
year mentor, citing the youthful
team as the cause for the game’s sup-
posed lack of significance.

 

ny

Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

 

ss Me,

 

THE BEGINNING
OF AN ERROR!

 

 

 

 

 

 

The back design of the T-shirt

that their shirt venture is ‘‘just a
business,”’ and ‘‘definitely nothing

Rhodes bid

ing to win in Richmond. I was in-
timidated by the competition.”

Philosophy Professor Joseph Mar-
tin, who is in charge of the Rhodes
program at W&L, said, ‘‘It’s definite-
ly the most prestigious scholarship in
the Western world...What they’re
looking for is someone who has de-
monstrated unselfish leadership.”’

Other requirements are that the
applicant be a citizen of the U.S., be
unmarried and be under 24 years of
age. Martin said they also look for
what he called ‘Victorian virtues’’
—strong character, devotion to duty,
physical vigor and a concern for the
weak.

The physical vigor requirement is
usually met by being on a sports
team. Martin said most applicants
have a grade point average of at least
in the mid 3.0 range.

This year’s winner from Virginia,
Maurice Jones, attends Hampden-
Sydney College. Martin said W&L’s
last winner was in 1984.

21 W. Washington St.

personal’ against the women at
W&L.

“Several girls have come up ask-
ing for shirts, so they can see it's just
a joke,” says Coe. But, he adds, ‘‘we
weren't stupid enough to think there
wouldn’t be some animosity.”

Still, they do have an argument to
make. ‘‘Some guys resent how quick-
ly change is coming,’’ Shaw said. The
T-shirt represents ‘‘just a quick jab
to show we're still a little upset.”’

“The administrators have to be
kidding themselves if they think that
after 250 years, going co-ed is going
to blow over in four months,” Coe ad-
ded.

Shaw said that he is not against the
coeducation decision, and that he
came here this year with an open
mind. Coe said he was against the
decision but that now he ‘‘can see the
advantages.”

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington

463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HARDW.

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

Plan Now
For
Washington’s
Holiday
Break and
Spring
Break

Don’t Delay

Call 463-7174

Frank’s Pizza

Luncheon Special 11-3

10’ Minipizza w/1 topping

10” Minipizza w/3 toppings

plus
Free Drink

 

463-7575 or 463-3133

Large Pizza

$1] OFF

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Summer Scholars ‘86, a four-
week academic and recreational
program for rising high school
seniors (June 29-July 25), is look-
ing for a few good men and women
to serve as counselors. Inquiries
should be made at the Office of
Summer Programs, 36 Washing-
ton Hall, 463-8723.

The Minority Student Associa-
tion will hold a dinner in honor of
Martin Luther King Jr., on Sun-
day in Evans Dining Hall. A pro-
gram featuring Gospel Way Choir
and author Garnell Stamps will be

held at 7 p.m. Monday at United

Methodist Church on Randolph
Street. A reception will follow the
program.

Those students who have receiv-
ed three or more notices to attend
meetings of the Cold Check Com
mittee will be sent to the Student
Control Committee unless they
pay outstanding fines by Tuesday
at 7 p.m. in Room 114 of the Stu-
dent Center.

FILMS

“2001: A Space Odyssey,” by
Stanley Kubrick, will be shown
Thursday and Saturday nights at 7

 

 

and Friday at 4 p.m. in Room 203
Reid Hall. This unusual departure
from conventional sci-fi and the
prequel to ‘'2010"’ is a technically
innovative attempt to legitimize
extraterrestrials’ role in human
history. No one will be permitted
entry during the last 14 minutes
Free admission. Public invited

MEETINGS

 

 

Inter-Varsity will meet this
Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 114
of the Student Center. The Lam-
post will sponsor a General Lee
Birthday Bash following the meet-

ing.

 

 

 

 

Winter Clearance Sale

Ceramic Items For Sale

Free Gift Wrapping

MasterCard

Alvin-Benniz

Fine Men’s Apparel

Lexington, Virginia

Continues

Choice

ee

 

Student Charge

 

 

SR OSS ES EP) A ED) eS OE a nee

 

 

 

Marie's Kain Stylers

463-9588

| aaa RM

By Appointment

Old Main St. Mall
Robins Peggy «Marie Lexington, VA 24450 (
PR S| SESE SESE ED ae ee) ce)

ce

 

 

 

 

 

fpoffroe [eee Florist

If you want to make a statement,
and don’t know what to say,
Just send her some flowers

and really make her day.

165 South Main St.

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5 ‘

 

 

463-9152

 

 

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@ Wine@Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:
Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

SAFEWAY

8-10

463-3146 onda.

Wise Potato Chips
Coors & Coors Light
Beck’s Beer
Fresh Made Deli Pizzas
2/56

Good Luck On The New Term!

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

 

Cagers raise mark to 6-4

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

Last week the Washington and Lee
basketball squad won two and lost
one. Unfortunately, the one loss was
in the championship game of the
W&L Invitational.

The Generals won Friday, 92-80,
over Thomas College to advance to
the finals of the Invitational. But on
Saturday, in the finals, they failed to
convert on two key freethrow
chances and lost the tournament for
the first time in seven seasons.
However, they rebounded to end the
week on a winning note by defeating
Maryville 67-62 in conference action
on Tuesday.

After Saturday night’s loss, head
coach Verne Canfield was subdued.
““We hope to use this loss to learn and
grow.” he said. ‘‘The game bothered
the kids and that’s a good sign.”’

Canfield’s guarded optimism was

rewarded when the Generals came
up with a 67-62 win against the
Maryville Scots

The Scots entered the game with
the ODAC's leading offense, averag-
ing 76.7 points per game, and the
league’s top scorer in Clay Freels,
averaging 21.5 points per game

But the Generals’ defense rose to
the occasion and tightened up con-
siderably, especially on the inside
Freels was held below his average.
scoring 18 points, but more impor-
tantly, he was forced to foul out with
5:11 remaining in the contest

Freshman Lee Brading’s two free
throws in the last minute of play iced
the victory for W&L.

In Saturday’s game, Jefferson
Harralson hit one of two free throws
with 1:32 to go, giving a W&L a 66-61
edge over the Nazareth Golden
Flyers. Then the Generals stopped
scoring, they did not put a point on
the board for the remainder of the
contest. Nazareth, on the other hand,

kept right on scoring

They immediately took the ball
down court and scored ona strong in-
side move by Richard Sparks, cut-
ting the Generals’ lead to 66-63

“Tm very dissappointed,” said
Canfield. ‘‘We allowed them to make
too many shots in the paint.”

With 30 seconds left in the game,
Fred Bissinger had a chance to put
the game out of reach, but he missed
the front end of a one and one. So,
when Joe Convertino drove the lane
with ten seconds left, the W&L lead
shrivelled to one.

Nazareth then fouled Harralson to
get the ball back. Harralson also had
the opportunity to seal the victory,
but he too missed the first shot of his
one and one. Convertino grabbed the
board but during the transition, Har-
ralson fouled Convertino while going
for the ball.

When the teams returned to the
court, the 5-10 guard cooly sank both
of his free throws to give his team the

Duke hands grapplers first loss in

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

It was an up-and-down week for the
Washington and Lee wrestling squad.
After sweeping the Johns Hopkins

Quadrangular on Saturday, the
Generals were humbled by Division I
Duke last night.

Yesterday's 37-12 loss to the Blue
Devils was the first W&L wrestling
loss since Jan, 19, 1985

The Generals started out well
enough when scrappy 118-pounder
Steve Castle carried the first bout.
Castle’s technical fall put the
Generals up 6-0.

Co-captain Brian Lifsted, who fell
to Duke’s Bill Perri 9-1 in the next
match, commented, ‘‘Steve wrestled
really well. He was our bright spot.”’

Bright spot, indeed, as from there
W&L lost seven of the eight remain-
ing bouts to the quick and countering
Blue Devils. Co-captain Lary Anker

chalked up the Generals’ only other
points on the evening, forcing his op-
ponent at 142 Ibs. to withdraw

General wrestlers effortlessly
swept the Johns Hopkins Invitational
in Baltimore last Saturday by alter-
nately manhandling Loyola, Hamp-
den-Sydney and Johns Hopkins, and
in the process, got head coach Gary
Franke his 100th win as W&L head
coach.

Franke described his reaction to

 

 

 

 

JEFFERSON HARRALSON

67-66 victory and the championship.

AROUND THE RIM... Steve Han-
cock was named the Invitational’s
MVP... Harralson had 59 points in the
Generals’ last three games... The
Generals play archrival Roanoke
tonight at 7:30 in the Warner Center:
the game will be carried live on
WLUR-FM (91.5). Both teams are
tied for third place in the ODAC

a year

the squad's performance by joking,
“We're doing cartwheels

“We were very pleased with our
performance,”' he said. ‘We had a lot
of nice efforts.”’

According to Franke
ment in W&L’s victory was the fact
that, ‘almost everybody perform-
ed.”

The Generals resume action Satur
day at noon against Davidson in the
Warner Center.

  

 

Swimmers return to competition on Friday

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee swim fans, the wait is over

After a month and a half of training, the
Generals will resume competition this weekend.

Friday night, the men’s team (2-1) will swim at
James Madison, Saturday, both the men’s and
women’s teams will host Georgetown and
Frostburg in Twombly Pool at 1 p.m.

While Friday's meet against James Madison, a
top Division I team in the region, offers little hope
for a victory, the team hopes the outcome will be a
rare occurrence.

‘We want to make that the last loss of the sea-
son,” said head coach Page Remillard.

To Remillard and the team, such a prospect is
not as grim as it seems. Having trained intensive-
ly for the last month and a half, the swimmers are
temporarily run-down and presently they may not
be capable of turning out two top-flight perfor-
mances back to back as they should be able to
when the national championships roll around in
mid-March. Thus, Friday's meet will be both a
physical warm-up for Saturday and also a chance
toexperiment with the team’s line-up.

“We cannot go into that meet and be irresponsi-
ble. Everyone will be in a certain event for a cer-
tain goal,” Remillard said. “The damage will
come if the swimmers don’t take the meet serious-

 

—

Considerin

e fact

ly.... Our meet Saturday kind of begins Friday.”

Georgetown and Frostburg are both strong
teams, together promising what should be a close
meet Saturday. Key events look to be in the free-
style events. The men’s relays could also play de-
ciding roles if Georgetown takes the diving com-
petition.

Remillard points out that, having just endured a
good deal of intensive training, the swimmers
may have excuses for a loss Saturday, but he sees
that as no obstacle to their rising to the challenge.

“If they capitalize on those excuses it will be a
real ho-hum season.... There is no indication that
this is a team that jumps at a chance to fail.”’

 

 

 

 

TIME
OUT....

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

: ... The idea ultimately behind the

s % NCAA's Proposal 48, which, by the

e. ; way, became The Law Monday

4 Pe night, is an attempt — albeit a feeble

7 rs one — to restore some validity to the

E — term ‘student-athlete.’ That some

es actually opposed the proposal —

> vehemently so, given the fact that it

+ was proposed two years ago and has

been struggling for approval

ever since — leads me to believe that it’s going ho take more than

watered-down proposals to save play-for-pay college athletics from
itself.

If you're wondering, campers, Proposal 48 is that nifty edict that
seeks to prevent insufficiently educated high school students from
receiving a free ticket to the institution of higher learning/motor
club/health spa/leisure resort of his or her (Are you listening, North-
east Louisiana?) choice. What the NCAA approved in New Orleans
(and isn’t that city of sin a fitting place?) was a set of academic
criteria that entering freshmen on athletic scholarship must meet if
they are to compete in their scholarship sport. The standards that
these respective whiz kids must be able to attain during their high
school careers are as follows (please refrain from laughing too loud-
ly):

eA 2.0 grade point average in 1i prescribed subjects.

*A score of 700 (total) on the Scholastic Aptitude Test.

A phone call to the College Board people reveals just how lame these
“standards” are. Fred Mareno, assistant director of public affairs at
the College Board says the 1985 national average scores were 431 ver-
bal, 475 math. That adds up to 906. Mareno said 14 percent of all those
who take the test score below 700. I submit that, for the most part, it’s
unreasonable to allow anything that scores 200 points below the na-
tional average into a supposed institution of higher learning

That doesn’t meanit isn’t done.

Granted, there is the notable exception of black student-athletes. Of
blacks taking the SAT, 56 percent score below 700, a result of what
some researchers claim is a prejudiced test. Prejudiced or not, if you
only answer less than half the questions on the SAT correctly, I can't
justify your getting a free ride to college, Mac.

Mareno provides us with one further tidbit that leaves me wondering
if those NCAA types were aware of what their decision involved. The
man from the College Board cited a recent study that shows that
athletes across the board did as weil in high school as their non-
athletic counterparts. The average SAT score for high school athletes
was 910. That’s (again) 200 points above the NCAA’s lofty standard. In
other words, 700 just doesn’t make it, as far as a legitimate academic
standard goes.

All these numbers aside though, folks, doesn’t it strike anyone as

peculiar that a collegiate association has to pass proposals to remind

 

 

 

The Sandwich Shoppe
Old Main Shopping Mall
Is Under New Managment

It is our hope to keep the same fine food and service you

are use to.

Featured everyday, Monday through Friday, will be home-

made soups along with the fine sandwiches you already like.

Please call 463-2595 for your To-Go Order.

Thanks for your continued patronage. Frank Stinson

 

 

that Jesus had his doubts,
why cant you?

If you believe in God, but still have doubts and questions, there's plenty of room
for you in the faith and fellowship of the Episcopal Church.
The Episcopal Church

 

fe _f Mem ra '
er epai Se
Sund:z
30 Fuchar t
15 Churct ho
30 Euchariat.tist and
Mornings Prayer .#andé
oo Canterbury Club
Evensona tiasst and 3ra
Eucharist 2nd and 4th
Followed by dinner
We dime ia.
Eu hari
The Rev Arthur i ia
Tne Fev Name vy ~ Ta lo
Assistant and Chapiai:

advantages like:

@ Earning $100 a month during the school year

Then get in on the ground floor in our undergraduate officer
commissioning program. You could start planning on a career
like the men in this ad have. And also have some great

Juniors earn more than $1900 during one ten-week

summer session

You can take free civilian flying lessons

@ You're commissioned upon graduation

If you're looking to move up quickly, look into the Marine Corps

 

@ Asa freshman or sophomore,
you could complete your basic train-
ing during two six-week summer

sessions and earn more than $1100
during each session

 

 

 

 

Tal ty

undergraduate officer commission-

ing program. You could
start off making more

|
| Want fo move i than $17,000 a year.

Were looking for a few good men,

today

at

bent
bt

Evan's Dining Hall, or ca

1 Fans € a =
re looking for a w good men.

 

 

 
EBACK PAGE

 

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

The Suspects (left to right): Cliff Coppola, Teddy Pender, Taylor Abbot, John Vita

     
       

 

EAST LE

U.S. 11 N. 463-3614 Open Until Midnight

 

Lexington Prescription Center
11 West Washington Street
463-9166

Welcomes Your Business

We accept charge accounts to your parents.
We will make special orders to get your brand.
Come in and get all your merchandise.

1) Prescriptions
2) Hair care products
3) Dental needs

4) Contact lens care products
5) Shaving products

6) Better colognes and after
shave lotion

 

 

 

The Finishing Touch
Located in the U.S. Post
Office Building, Lexington

463-1622
Typing and Word
Processing Services

  
      

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

i ‘Suspects’: New band

plays ‘what we like’

 

By MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporter

 

Rising from the ashes of the
mostly-graduated Nabobs, the Sus-
pects, this year’s musical offering
from the W&L Law School have be-
gun playing the local bar scene
including a Friday night gig al
General Headquarters.

The band was formed at the begin-
ning of the school year by Taylor Ab-
bot, who approached guitarists Cliff
Coppola and John Vita and drummer
Teddy Pender with the idea of form-
ing another ‘‘all-law’’ band.

Nabob veteran Abbot was the only
member of the group who did not
graduate last spring. Vita was the
founding member of the Convertibles

x Thespians to stage

Greek sex comedy

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

The Washington and Lee drama
department’s winter production,
“Lysistrata,”’ is an anti-war comedy
written in 411 B.C. by Greek play-
wright Aristophanes. The play is con-
cerned with the Peloponnesian war
between Athens and Sparta, but it is
certainly not meant to be a history
lesson.

The operative word here is ‘‘come-
dy.”
“Actually, it’s a lot like Saturday
Night Live,”’ said director Al Gordon.
“There was a skit on that show once
which was set in Beruit. A boy was
called inside for dinner but couldn’t
make it because he was too busy kill-
ing people. That kind of satire is a
great deal like Aristophones.”’

The play centers on Lysistrata
(Pamela Simpson), an Athenian

housewife who devises a_ brilliant
scheme to stop the war. She con-
vinces every Athenian, Boeotian and
Lacedaemonian woman to withhold
sex from their husbands to bring
about an armistice. According to
Gordon, this ‘“‘sex-strike’’ results in
some very funny scenes.

“We've tried to do it in a very
modern style,” said Gordon. “It’s no
more absurd than what's going on to-
day.”

Because the original play included
references to politicians living at the
time it was written, Gordon said he
streamlined it a bit in order to play
up the relevance to current events.
On the other hand, he didn’t want to
“beat people over the head.”’

“Lysistrata” will begin its run
Feb. 7 and continue through Feb. 12.
All performances will begin at 8
p.m., except a Sunday, Feb. 9 mati-
nee.

before leaving that band in 1983.
Coppola’s experience has been
limited mostly to coffee house perfor-
mances.

The Friday night GHQ show was
only the fourth time the band has
played for an audience. While the
crowd was extremely receptive, Vita
expressed dissatisfaction with the
group’s performance.

He blamed this on the lack of re-
hearsal time the band had during the
previous week. He also attributed the
band’s slow start to the difficulty of
balancing the Law School study load
with necessary rehearsal time.

Still the band has reached a point
where it feels ready to put some orig-
inal songs into its mix of rock stan-
dards and contemporary popular
songs. Coppola has penned many

merce School.

merce School.
Lewis Hall.

Sponsored by the W&L Film Society.

Warner Center.

merce School.

Sponsored by the W&L Film Society.

 

songs that will be included in upcom-
ing shows

The Suspects’ song list has chang-
ed from oldies, which were aimed at
the tastes of law students, to modern
songs by Talking Heads, R.E.M., The
Police and Elivs Costello. With their
relaxed attitude toward the future,
the bottom line is still “what we
like.”

With two of the four members
graduating at year’s end, Vita admit-
ted that the Suspects were formed to
‘be a diversion and have fun.”

Now. with exams behind them and
more time to concentrate on the
band, The Suspects want to expand
and enjoy themselves. The group
plans to play at Sweet Briar College
in the near Future and hopes to make
a number of fraternity appearances.

(alate
ONCAMPUS

Thursday, January 16
7 p.m. — W&L Journal of Science, organizational meeting. Room 301,
Parmly Hall. For information call Guy Caldwell at 463-9630.
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILM: *'2001: A Space Odyssey.’’ Room 327, Com-
7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Roanoke. Warner Center.
8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘Popular Images of George Washington from
the Carson Collection.”’ Stanley Preston Lewis °85, guest curator. du-
Pont Auditorium. Reception following the lecture Public invited.

Friday, January 17
4p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “2001: A Space Odyssey.’’ Room 327, Com-

7 p.m. — Newcomer's Gathering (prior to Film Society film). Lobby,
8 p.m. — FILM: “Nosferatu the Vampyre.” Classroom A, Lewis Hall.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘‘The Deal.” Sponsored by GHQ. Cover charge, $3.

Saturday, January 18
1 p.m. — SWIMMING: Generals vs. Georgetown, Frostburg State.

1:30 p.m. — WRESTLING: Generals vs. Davidson. Warner Center.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: *'2001: A Space Odyssey.’’ Room 327, Com-

8 p.m. — FILM: ‘‘Nosferatu the Vampyre.” Classroom A, Lewis Hall.

9 p.m. — BAND: “The Stains.”” Sponsored by GHQ., Cover charge, $2.

 

 

 

SE 238 ) .
Lexington, 7 24450

Lexington Hardware

 

 

463-2242

 

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over
50 years
Main Street, Lexington
463-3612

 

 

 

 

Dear Mom and Dad,

Here are a few things I'd like for
Christmas. You don't have to buy me
all of them, just choose one

}. A Saab 900s turbo, black exterior,
burgundy leather interior, sunroof,
performance package

 

2. A penthouse apartment, fully
staffed, in Trump tower

3. Anuntimited account at Alvin-
Dennis

4. An IBM PC, 256k, two disk drives,

monitor/printer adapter, Monochrome
monitor

love, Skippy

 

 

 

 

 

(Pre-ott-so) you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo 1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your

head for

my business.

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

463-7000
HH 600 E. Nelson
ut @ Lexington The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO
ge a ;
g ; § Winter
i Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered : Clearance Sale
Sn in Progress
i $49 off orr &
z _— you tame 2 som &
B sz. offanyi: izzs Ke :
# or #1 off any medium. 10 : Shoes, Clothing
cludes Pizza Hut? P: j
a Pia re utt Pan Pizza bok keen dk r & Accessories
oe ee eee H Lexington, Va.
eae Ul. 463-7000 :
@ restaurants t 23 NORTH MAIN STREET
oct Po g | LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
& 1-31-86 a 463-5988
eee tt

The truth is that you need an IBM PC. Whether
its a word processor for a thesis or a direct link
into a mainframe, now is the time to buy.
Prices are low and the Christmas spirit of giving
is everywhere, especially at home.

IBM set the industries standards when they
began production .of the PC and it is still the
leading personal computer. No other MS DOS®
machine maintains such an extensive software
base and such a reputation for reliability. So if
you demand the best, now is not the time to
compromise. Stick with the BUREAU. IBM.

copies of your data.

 

the FX-85 is the answer. °

For more information contact Sue Ruley at the Computer Center on Campus

JACK HARTMAN

By now you should know how to get exactly what you want. Honesty is not always
the best policy. That is, sometimes parents need a little deception to show them the truth,

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

_... And while you've got them in the palm
of your hand, why not go ahead and ask for
+. everything you really want. After all once
you've got the computer you need hard
Knowing you want the
best we suggest the EPSON” FX-85. Epson
is to printers what IBM is to computers.
With excellent quality, long lasting durability,
a full year waranty and extremely low prices

 

 

 

COMPUTER CENIRE

 

2840 Peters Creek Rd. Roanoke 362-1891 Gables Shopping Center Blacksburg 951-0802
Toll Free 1-800-542-5899

 

Sales Service Software classes Support

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
