 

 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 21

Boatwright

 

Letters shown

 
   
 

in library

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

220%
aN 4

 

 

Sports-write

Deford talks

 

 

football here

   
   
 

 

 

Your Fancy Dress weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Friday: Windy, cold
Saturday: Very cold

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

MARCH 6, 1986

 

 

 

 

Small bands get
mixed response

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

The booking of two little-known
bands, Let’s Active and the dB’s, by
the Student Activities Board for
tonight’s Fancy Dress concert has
met with mixed responses from the
student body.

While many students will probably
go to the show, in any event, there
are some who see the concert as an
SAB flop.

Freshman John Liegters said,
“The SAB could have gotten better
bands, If they got R.E.M., they could
have gotten someone better this
time.”

Sophomore Frank Watson felt the
same. I’m not a really ‘top 40’ type
person, but I think they should get
‘top 40’ bands because most of the
school is like that,’ Watson said.

Sophomore Charlie Lyle said he
wasn’t too excited about tonight’s
show at first, but feels it will be a
good time.

“T just find it kind of funny that
both bands played at Hampden-Syd-
ney a couple of months ago,” said
Lyle.

SAB Chairman Mike Guerriero de-
fended the choice of performers, say-
ing the task of finding an available
band is made more difficult by the
strictness of the SAB’s schedule.

‘With only one night a year to work
with, it’s damn near impossible to get
a band booked for that one night,”’ he
said.

He said the SAB had the choice of
getting a more expensive band or op-
ting for a less expensive act now and
subsequently providing a better band
in the spring.

Also, Guerriero said the $6 ticket
price takes into account that Fancy
Dress is “expensive already.”

“Let's Active and the dB’s are new
and up and coming. We are trying to
offer the best quality act which we
think will offer a quality time,” he
said.

Sophomore Chris Hagar said he is
going to attend tonight’s concert even
though he has never heard either
group.

“T heard the dB’s are supposed to
be pretty good. They seem more my
style of music. I would rather have a
small band more my style than a big
one I don’t care about,”’ he said.

Junior Steve Morris expressed
similar sentiments.

“T’ve never heard of either band,
but I still think it’ll be a good time.
We usually get pretty good entertain-
ment for the size of the school. They
{the SAB] usually make a good
choice.”

Junior Chip Davis said, ‘I’m sure
the SAB did a good job. I’m going
Thursday because I'll be lubing up
for the weekend.”’

Va. Bar accuses Read
of sexual misconduct

 

By JIMSTRADER
Editor

 

A complaint filed by the Virginia
State Bar yesterday in Rockbridge
County Circuit Court charges that
Commonwealth's Attorney Beverly
C. ‘John’ Read is guilty of sexual
misconduct in that he ‘‘made sexual
advances and/or initiated sexual
contact with one or more of his
female clients’? between 1977 and
1984.

The complaint says Read made the
advances ‘during the course of his
professional attorney/client relation-
ship with his clients,’’ and without
their consent or invitation.

“Such conduct,” the complaint
continues, ‘‘constitutes misconduct
in violation of disciplinary rules’’ of
the Virginia Code of Professional
Responsibility.

If found guilty, Read could be
reprimanded, disbarred or have his
law license suspended.

Read, a graduate of Virginia
Military Institute and the Washing-
ton and Lee Law School, has been
licensed to practice law since 1971
and has been Commonwealth’s Attor-
ney for Lexington and Rockbridge
County since 1976.

The case, not yet scheduled, will be
heard before a three-judge court in
Rockbridge County. Read has asked
that the hearing be held in open

 

By MIKE ALLEN
aaccuuve Editor

 

Candidates for student body presi-
dent said this week that increasing
tensions between students and ad-
ministrators will be one of the
primary issues confronting next
year’s student government.

Elections for the “Big Three” stu-
dent body offices — Executive Com-
mittee president, vice president and
secretary — will be held Monday
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Runoffs will be
Thursday, and balloting for class EC
representatives will take place in two
weeks.

About 30 students attended a Tues-
day afternoon ‘Big Three’’ question

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

and answer session in the Commerce
School. The 90-minute forum was
sponsored by the Executive Commit-
tee and moderated by Student Body
President John Lewis, who asked
each candidate four initial questions
and then relayed anonymous written
queries from the audience.

All three of the candidates current-
ly serve on the EC:

eVice President Andrew Caru-
thers, a junior from Shreveport, La.,
was elected class representative to
the EC for his first two years.

“T’ve seen just about everything an
Executive Committee member can
see by being on the EC three years,”’
Caruthers said. ‘The next step is to
capitalize on all the fortes and foibles
of the last three student body presi-

honor violation.”

 

‘Big Three’ vote is Monday

dents I’ve served.”’

eJunior Shayam Menon of Ranson
Town, W.Va., has been a class repre-
sentative the last two years.

Menon said he’s prepared to handle
ail the president’s responsibilities,
including having to ‘catch a few
knives in the back, or whatever.”’

eSecond-year law representative
William Thompson of Boca Raton,
Fla.. was a Washington and Lee
undergraduate.

“T’m 24 years old and I feel like a
fossil,” Thompson said, adding that
W&L has “‘really gone through such
an amount of change it’s really kind
of amazing, and I feel lucky to have
been part of the stages.”’

The candidates said greater com-
munication is needed between the

Candidates refuse road-sign answer

but that ‘‘as I see it now, it would not be considered an

Abbott noted that a student body jury this year ac-

 

quitted a student of a charge of stealing in connectior

In general, is stealing a road sign likely to be an honor
violation?

You’re not sure? Well, the three candidates for stu-
dent body president don’t seem to know either, or if they
do, it’s a secret.

At an election forum held Tuesday, each of the can-
didates — all of whom now serve on the Executive Com-
mittee — twice declined to answer that question.

“Don’t think that we haven’t been gauging student
opinion,” said Vice President Andrew Caruthers.

“Each case must be taken on its merits,” said junior
representative Shayam Menon.

“T will decline comment,’’ said second-year law re-
presentative Bill Thompson.

Both of the candidates for vice president said sign-
stealing likely would not be an honor offense.

Junior Paul Abbott, running against classmate
Brandt Surgner, said that ‘‘the EC reflects what the stu-
dent body believes, and that will become our policy,”

with the larceny of a tub of wine. ‘‘You could kind of
associate that witha sign,”’ he said.

Surgner added that ‘‘in most instances, the act of tak-
ing a road sign ... would be more of a prank”’ than an
honor violation.

The two candidates for secretary took the opposite
view.

Junior Roby Mize said that ‘‘technically I would say
that’s an honor violation, but you can’t make a blanket
statement.”

Sophomore Rick Robins said that ‘‘theft of a road sign
is an honor violation — I don’t think there’s any doubt
about it.”

He added that a fraternity prank “probably wouldn’t
be considered an honor violation,’ but that the EC
“could let the fraternities know that in the future,
scavenger hunts need not include the theft of a road
sign, and after that it would be considered an honor
violation.”

student body and the University ad-
ministration, with Thompson conten-
ding that ‘‘the main tradition I see
threatened on this campus is student
self-government.”’

School officials and students, he
said, “don’t talk to each other
enough; so we don’t understand each
other.”’ If the tension is not lessened,
he added, ‘‘the institution might be
endangered.”’

Menon added that the president
needs ‘‘to stick up for students’ rights
everywhere — in the dorms and on
Student Control — and not let them
slip away.”

Caruthers pointed out that the
president serves as a ‘‘spokesman or

(See Forum, page 4

 

~W2&L Votes ’86

The Candidates

Vice President: Secretary
Paul Cnet’ Abbott Roby Mze

 

Inside...

Today’s Ring-tum Phi includes
a “W&L Votes '86’’ supplement.
Inside, you'll find:

~Editorial evaluating the
presidential hopefuls

Profiles of each of the seven
candidates

Senior Class President
Townes Pressler’s advice on
voting

~ Why you won’t see those bed-
sheets around cy pus anymore

~ Rules and‘ egulations for can-
didates

~ Duties of ‘‘Big Three”’ officers

 

 

 

Goshen-
going

gone?

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

What next? No Goshen
escapades during spring term?

That’s the way it looks for W&L
students, at least for this spring.

Highway Department assistant
resident engineer John Hall said
State Route 39, the only road to
Goshen, will not be passable until
early July because of last fall’s
catastrophic flood.

In November, highway engineer
Leo Ferris said the road would be
fixed in anywhere from 90 days to
six months.

The flooding caused two mud-
slides along a 11-mile stretch,
Ferris said, and the Highway
Department will build retaining

walls to protect the road.

Hall said this week that the pro-
blem is a very unusual one. A sec-
tion of the road approximately 60
feet deep and 20 feet wide was
washed away, and must be filled
up. Hall projected the total cost of

repairs at over $1 million.

Most of the route’s traffic is be-
ing detoured to U.S. Interstate 64.

 

 

 

 

 

BEVERLY C. ‘JOHN’ READ

court. He could have requested a
closed hearing on the matter.

Read was unavailable for com-
ment this morning on the complaint.

 

Catalog raises honor issue

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

One professor calls it ‘‘an abomination.’’ Another says
it is ‘‘disturbing’’ and ‘prima facie evidence of
plagiarism.”’ The student body president characterizes it
as “‘an honor violation waiting to happen.”

On its cover, the paperback book received at Washing-
ton and Lee fraternity houses in the last week bills itself
as a ‘catalog of collegiate research” and lists titles of
more than 14,000 term papers for sale, ranging from
“Computers & Macro-Marketing” to “U.S. Mining of
Nicaraguan Ports’’ to ‘‘Faulkner’s Treatment of Time
and Language.”

“Telephone orders accepted,’’ the catalog promises.
“Orders are sent in unmarked envelopes.... The footnote
and bibliography pages are free...’’ And service is avail-
able by Federal Express.

The catalogs reached Lexington last week as part of a
nationwide mass-mailing to fraternity and sorority
houses conducted by Research Assistance, a Los Angeles
company.

Art Stekel, reached by telephone at the company’s of-
fices, said the mailing was the first that Research Assis-
tance had conducted. Previously, he said, the company
had relied on advertisements in magazines and college
newspapers.

Several W&L faculty members said they weren’t sur-
prised by the appearance of the catalogs in Lexington.
Both English Professor Severn P.C. Duvall and Politics
Professor Milton Colvin were aware of the existence of
what Colvin called ‘‘paper mills,’’ but both expressed
disappointment at the fact that these books were being
sent to W&L students.

“‘T’m appalled,’’ Colvin said. ‘‘I can’t believe somebody
would be that arrogant.”

“I’m sorry about it,” said Duvall, who added that such
catalogs do not create a crisis, but disturb him nonethe-
less.

“We didn’t need them,”’ Duvall said. “If a student
wants to cheat, he’s going to cheat. This just makes it
easier.”’

Student Body President John Lewis expressed disbelief
that a company would send this sort of catalogs to a
school such as W&L which is so well-known for its Honor
System.

“T think that’s insane,”’ Lewis said.

He added that it was equally ridiculous to expect W&L
students to order the catalogs, since ‘‘it’s somebody
else’s work that you'd be turning in as your own.”

Colvin agreed. “In my opinion, it would be a clear
violation of the Honor System to present that paper as
one’s own work,”’ he said.

While Research Assistance’s catalog maintains that
‘all research materials are sold for research purposes
only,” Stekel admitted that some who utilize the service
may plagiarize the papers.

“I’m realistic,’ Stekel said. ‘I know that it does hap-
pen.”’ He added that he thinks only about 50 percent of his
customers plagiarize the material.

Asked what methods the company employs to safe-
guard its papers, Stekel said only that the company con-
trols the distribution of papers.

‘“‘We never sell the same paper to two students at the
same school,”’ Stekel said. He said customers are inform-
ed when they receive a paper that they possess the only
copy of the work on their campus.

Both Duvall and Colvin, who have been teaching at
W&L since the early 1960s, said they have had occasion to
deal with plagiarism in their time here.

Although neither has a foolproof way of detecting

_jSee Catalog, page 4

|Committee to provide free buses

to fraternities following concert

 

By MATT HORRIDGE

Staff Reporter (91.5).

 

about drunken driving on WLUR-FM

the committee’s recognition of the
fact that there will be drinking at the
pavilion and that some may have a

 

eee eerie renee even

The Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee has sponsored several
events this week to make students
aware of the dangers of drinking and
driving in conjunction with Fancy
Dress weekend, according to com-
mittee Special Events Coordinator
Carol Calkins.

She said the committee has rented
the film ‘‘Prevention,’’ which was
made by self-described reformed
alcoholic Father Joseph C. Martin
and has been shown during physical

“education classes this week. Also, the

committee has had several messages

Finally, the committee has rented
two vans to serve as free shuttle
buses for ‘“‘those who have had too
much to drink”’ at the concert tonight
in the Student Activities Pavilion,
Calkins said.

Instead of driving himself home
and possibly causing an accident,
Calkins said, a drunk student ‘‘has an
alternate way to get home.”’

She emphasized, however, that the
committee is not condoning exces-
sive drinking by renting the two
vans. Calkins said the decision to
rent the vans was based mainly on

few too many.
There will be several stops on the
shuttle’s route:

Stop1- Zeta Beta Tau and Kappa
Alpha
Stop 2— Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Stop 3 — Sigma Nu and Phi Delta
Theta

Stop 4 — Washington Street side of

Graham-Lees Dormitory

Stop 5 Student
Pavilion

Activities

Ihe shuttle will start at 9 piu. at
ZBT and will cover the route every
half an hour until 10:30 p.m. Rides
from the pavilion will begin after the
concert ends
 

 

OPINION
Bad sign

“The student generation needs to know what is going to be
deemed by the Executive Committee as dishonorable.”

 

— Andrew Caruthers at an Honor System symposium spon-
sored by Omicron Delta Kappa on May 20, 1985

We were appalled at Tuesday’s election forum that not a
single candidate for student body president was willing to
respond to the very straightforward question of whether, in
general, swiping a road sign is stealing.

The question was asked twice, but the answers both times
were vague non-responses. By cloaking their comments in
self-righteous philosophical cliches, the candidates copped
out of a question that is essential for their constituency to
evaluate them: What does honor mean to them?

A couple of the candidates said they look at each case on its
own merits. All right, what criteria do they think should be
used when looking at cases? Nobody would say.

Another said the committee has been gauging student body
opinion. OK, what have they found out? Nobody would say.

The general tone of the responses was: “‘It’s none of your
business.”’

And we’re supposed to vote for one of these clowns?

Do we have no better candidates for the highest student of-
fice? Would the best thing these candidates have to say in
front of the Board of Trustees be:“‘I am not sure what
students think on this matter. I will have to tell you after I
talk with them.”

“Stealing a road sign” has in recent years come to sym-
bolize the gray area of the Honor System between ‘“‘boys will
be boys’ and “thieves will be expelled.’ To comment on
whether you consider such an act dishonorable is not codify-
ing the system: it is merely expressing your view of honor
— something about which a voter reasonably could be ex-
pected to be curious.

Remember what they told you in grade school about how
you have to stand for something, or you’’!I fall for anything?
The latter seems to be the approach these EC members take
to the Honor System. They claim to be guided by no fun-
damental principles — that they are responsible merely to
the vagaries of student opinion. You’ve heard of situation
ethics: This is situation honor; morality by headcount.

One candidate offered the startling assertion that ‘‘if the
students decide tomorrow that cheating isn’t an honor viola-
tion,’’ cheating then would be permissible. How does the EC
even now know whether cheating is an honor violation? Has it
polled the student bédy recently on the matter? A person with
any integrity would disassociate himself immediately from
something that purports to be an honor system but condones
such behavior.

An even more curious point that kept being repeated on
Tuesday was that if the EC were making mistakes, that
they’d be corrected on appeal at a student body honor hear-
ing. That assumes that the only direction in which the EC
could stray from the student body’s wishes is in the direction
of conviction; acquittals obviously are never seen by
students at large. Nevertheless, one of the candidates per-
sisted in maintaining that ‘‘most of the important decisions
are not being made by the Executive Committee; they’re
made by the student body.”’ So why elect a student leader? A
computer could much more accurately gauge numerical stu-
dent opinion. Not everyone can have a gelatinous spine. How
fortunate for the student body.

What these candidates think about honor is our business.
To suggest that the specifics of the system can be discussed
only behind closed doors is insulting and outrageous. Im-
agine the outcry if a candidate for president of the United
States were asked under what general circumstances he
would authorize the use of nuclear weapons and his response

was: ‘I’m not going to tell. I would want to gauge my consti-
tuent opinion first.’’

Not all the “Big Three’ candidates suffered paralysis of
the principles, however.

The two vice presidential candidates said they didn’t feel
this student generation considers such a theft to be an honor
offense. That seems like a reasonable assessment, given how
widespread the sign-snatching practice is.

The secretarial candidates leaned the other way. That’s
fine, too — at least they had a point of view they were willing
to express. And one of them even offered a constructive, in-
telligent way to illuminate this Honor System gray area.

The candidates for president, however, are content with
being followers instead of leaders.

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

NEWS STAFF
si uIVG ONO, co ccccsscsicneedivncsecescnecesceanetetsessarcs mare
ee a Oe re Peo err ee RV OTEEE Pe CE MAE Teal) hk Paul Foutch
Jim Strader
Managing Editor Reade Williams
Sports Editor .........--scseeceeeee creer scence eeeeeeeneneenneneeees Mike Stachura
PEGG TUNG. vice cccc ec ccccctcrercccecrccenseceesecssopenceeoesereenes Jason Lisi
Photography Editor..........sssscceceeeeeeeereneeeneeeeeeeereneenens Steve Sadler
Chief Copy Editor ............cccceeeecrseneeeseceneseeeeeeenneeees Matt Horridge
Bntertainment BAG... 2. c ccc ceccncccescccccvccccceceeeeccveoecs Marshall Boswell
Assistant Sports Editor ...........ssecereeeecseeencerenneeeeeenenes David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
Editorial Page Editor .........:sseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenenereenereeees Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor. ........:0:0sesecceeeeeeeeereenenees Marie Kothman
ee ee Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager ...........--scceeeceeeeeereeeeeeneneeeeeseeeeenees Jeff Kimbell
Advertising Manager .............cseeereeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeenenes Hank Greenberg

  

Advertising Salesmen ...........:eeeceeeeeeeeerers Caroline Boone, John Feyrer,
Keri Hinrichs, Jay Reville, Greg Turley,
Circulation Manager ...........ccceeceeeeeeeecnenaeneeteesenoneanes Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450, This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

   

The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

| WAS GIVEN
DRUGS AND OFFERED
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
TO JOIN THE CLA.

SAOLLOLETILEE A:

J - Pe

wa

add

eis UII

 

Ze

Lussier

SA
S
S

Vi
v

eg x \

ddddddddidée

4 Y
] cr
_\

Wp yy
Wy

/Y yy

U

 

EY = YY Pal

y bye

Yy
TZ

Y Y
Yj Zi

4
Y

 

 

 

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

 

 

 

According to the calendar, spring
doesn’t begin for another two weeks.
We all know, however, that spring
really, officially, begins when the
newspapers say “pitchers and catch-
ers report to spring training today.”
After a long winter, these are the
most beautiful words in the English

language.

Of course, this year’s spring train-
ing has been marred by news from
the baseball commissioner’s office
that several major leaguers have
been suspended for one year because
of cocaine abuse, admitted by them
during the “baseball drug trials”
held in Pittsburgh this summer.
These players, however, can avoid
the suspension. They only need to
donate up to 10 percent of their
salaries to drug rehabilation pro-
grams in their teams’ cities, perform

100 hours of anti-drug community
service, and agree to submit to ran-
dom drug tests to make sure they
stay off drugs for the rest of their
careers.

I think that’s a small price to pay in
return for the privilege of receiving
hundreds of thousands of dollar a
year to play ball, and most fans
(judging from press reports) seem to
agree. Most of the guilty players
have seen the wisdom of Commis-
sioner Peter Ueberroth’s decision
and have agreed to follow his ruling
without arbitration or court fights. At
least one player, though, acting out of
selfishness and a disdain for the fans
who pay a salary that borders on the
fantastic, has chosen to fight Ueber-
roth’s decision. I speak of Keith Her-
nandez of the New York Mets.

Hernandez is probably the most
despicable of all the players affected
by the ruling. After a trade sent him
from the Cardinals to the Mets (a
trade that outraged many Cardinal
fans who appreciated Hernandez),
the St. Louis management let the
word out that Hernandez had been

Bumpersticker slogan

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

Writing this column gives me the
opportunity to express my opinion
regularly. Far be it from me to in-
hibit someone’s right to express
themselves. But there are at least
two sides to every dispute.

Ever since the first coeducational
class matriculated last fall, there has
been a flurry of bumperstickers and
T-shirts that voice point-counterpoint
in varying degrees of offensiveness.
One of the first slogans was ‘Screw
tradition: Date a W&L girl.”’ (Let it
be said that many of the ‘‘W&L girls”
and their parents did not appreciate
this backhanded support.) After this
came the inevitable “Screw W&L
girls: Date a tradition.’’ Then came
“Women at W&L: the beginning of an
error. ’85-’'86, the road trip con-
tinues.”’

Okay, fine. I can take a joke. And
that is the attitude many of the W&L
women have taken, to keep a sense of
humor about the whole debate. I
wasn’t offended by these remarks.
After all, the creators of these
slogans were just expressing their
opinion. It is their choice whether to
date a woman who attends one of the
surrounding women’s colleges rather
than a woman who attends W&L, just
as it is the choice of many W&L
women to date men who attend col-
leges other than W&L. It’s their right
to choose.

Perhaps the biggest problem
created by these early anti-coedu-
cation messages is that they tended
to make adversaries of women who
attend the women’s colleges and
those who attend W&L. I wonder if
such an animosity exists between the
different women’s. colleges
themselves. I bet there is nothing
Hollins women would rather see less
at Cotillion than Muffy from Sweet
Briar or Mary Baldwin modeling the
latest de LaRenta.

Perhaps the rivalry between W&L
women and those who attend
women’s colleges was only _in-
evitable, but surely insults in the
form of bumper stickers and T-shirts

didn’t help. Resorting to name call-
ing and finger-pointing doesn’t bring
about the resolution to this petty and
trivial rivalry. I think it’s really very
ridiculous that the 3,000 women who
attend the women’s colleges could
feel threatened by the 100 women
who are undergrads at W&L.

I'd rather there be a better feeling
of co-existence between the schools.
Yes, at first I was a little angered by
the women visiting on the weekends
who tied up the restrooms and helped
themselves to my stuff without ask-

To the editors:

generate student support for

wrestler, It is unfortunate Mr.
this.

 

Our first reaction upon reading Michael Par-
rish’s letter of Jan. 26 was complete disbelief. We
have been the unofficial leaders of the Unknown
Fans for three years and ‘‘bagheads”’ for four
years. Mr. Parrish’s letter seemed so outlandish
tous, and so far from the truth, that we believed
all who read it would also realize this. A member
of the athletic department even advised us not to
reply toit. Unfortunately, some people obviously
believed what Mr. Parrish mistakenly observed.

The sole purpose of the Unknown Fans is to

Lee basketball. We have never made any racial
references about the Roanoke basketball team.
While we do heckle the players and officials, it is
all in good fun, and is part of college basketball.
The incident Mr. Parrish described, in which a
member of the bagheads had ‘
gon”’ written across his cape was totally inaccur-
ate. What was written was the ‘‘Grand Wizard,”
the nickname for a manager of a professional

While we can not state the intentions of the
Unknown Fans from its inception, Robert Stau-
gaitis’ letter of last week has enlightened us on
this subject. For the four years prior to our ar-
rival in Lexington, the intentions of the “‘bag-
gers’’ were the same as they are now: to stir up

traded because of a serious cocaine
problem. Hernandez vehemently
denied the allegation, and threatened
to sue the Cardinals unless they
apologized. The Cardinals, embar-
rassed, were forced to take back
what they had said.

Up until the very day of his
testimony in last summer’s trials,
Hernandez denied ever using co-
caine. Once he entered the court-
room, though, he sang a different
tune. Testifying with immunity from

' prosecution, Hernandez admitted
that he had used cocaine for several
years, that his addiction was serious
enough to contribute to the break-up
of his marriage, and that he had stop-
ped using it only just before the 1985
season began.

One would think that Hernandez
would have been mortified by this ad-
mission. After all, he admitted that
he was a drug addict and a liar. Ap-
parently, though, Hernandez has no
shame at all. He insists that Ueber-
roth’s sentence is unduly harsh. I
think Hernandez is lucky he wasn’t
thrown out of baseball forever.

Hernandez’s behavior irks baseball fan

According to The Washington Post,
Hernandez will make $1.8 million this
year. After his 10 percent fine is
taken out of that salary, I am sure
fans across the country will be hold-
ing ‘“‘Let’s pay the rent for Keith”
parties to help the poor guy make
ends meet.

Of course, the important thing
about this incident, as far as the fans
are concerned, is that it be put quick-
ly behind us. I want to read about
who is going to be in the Cubs’ start-
ing lineup, not about what is going up
Keith Hernandez’s nose.

When I think baseball, I see grass,
ivy on the walls, and shirt-sleeved
crowds ‘‘oohing” over a great catch.
I hear the roar of 40,000 people
shouting in common joy as a ball
soars free of the player’s’ control and
traces a huge parabola across the
sky and drops into eager hands in the
upper deck.

Hernandez has heard the roar of
the crowd, but recently that sound
has been muffled by a snort of co-
caine and a laugh of derision. Her-
nandez is laughing at us.

called offensive, petty

ing. But I hope I would never be so
petty as to deny someone the use of a
restroom or shower.

Recently a bumper sticker that
reflects the “‘sour-grapes”’ attitude of
some of the women from other col-
leges has been seen around that I do
find offending. ‘‘There’s is nothing
I'd rather see less than W&L girls at
Fancy Dress’’ is the message that
was created by some Washington and
Lee students with the aid of a few
Hollins College girlfriends.

TTER

 

‘Unknown Fans’ clarify purpose

the Maroons!

To the editors:

Washington and

‘The Grand Dra-

Parrish misread

 

support for the Generals and help them defeat

Vandalism disturbs Pressler

This year there have been an unusually high
number of incidents of vandalism reported to the
Student Control Committee. Much of the vanda-
lism is taking place at surrounding women’s col-
leges and has ranged from broken windows to
hundreds of dollars of damage to dormitories.

Washington and Lee prides itself on the “gen-
tlemen’ that it produces. When one vandal is
recognized as a W&L student it mars the image
of the entire Washington and Lee student body. If
you don’t feel that you can visit a woman’s col-

lege without breaking thin it wi
be ininasaitle for g gs, or feel that it will

please don’t go.

We all enjoy the privilege of being <
the facilities at our ane mie uae kane

don’t abuse them.

Student Control Committee Chairman

As I said before, I was not offended
by any of the previous slogans, but
this one bothers me. While it echoes
‘the roadtrip continues” sentiment,
it also suggests that W&L women
have no business at FD at all, much
less with an escort who attends
another school. My immediate reac-
tion was, ‘‘Hey, I pay tuition too,”
and therefore have just as much
right to attend FD as any male stu-
dent, and an even greater right to at-
tend than those women who attend
other schools.

Chris Komosa
Jamie Berger
Class of 1986

you to act as a gentleman,

schools. Use them,

Townes Pressler

 

 

 
>.

 

*
é

NEWS

¥

+

™

Making
:statements

These are two of the Fancy
* Dress ‘86 souvenirs seen around
; campus this week. Freshman
; Dudley Lee and junior Johnny
* Hudson are selling the boxer
j shorts for $9 each. The two en-
; trepreneurs have had 200 pairs
‘ produced and have sold 130, 40 of
«them to Washington and Lee
; female students, “The girls are

se Me

ot the major target area,” Lee said.
;

 

  

:

x

By Steve Sad Phe Ring-tum Pl

 

Mme

ve

é

*

 

 

Than Ww

wore S NOthing I'd rather see

 

1ess
“eC]

2

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

 

-|Sophomore charged

in BB gun incident

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Sophomore J.P. Baehr, charged
with the unlawful wounding of fresh-
man John Roe early Thursday morn-
ing, admits he fired a BB pistol
toward a group of Phi Kappa Psi
fraternity members but didn’t think
the gun was powerful enough to
cause aninjury.

According to members of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, they were having a
party last Wednesday night when two
snowballs, apparently thrown by Phi
Psi members, broke two windows in
the SAE house.

A snowball fight then broke out be-
tween members of both houses. Roe,
a Phi Psi freshman, was among those
involved in the snowball fight.

According to the police report, Roe
said he turned his head when he

thought he heard his name called and
was shot in the eye by a BB at ap-
proximately | a.m.

Baehr, a member of SAE, was ar-
rested and originally charged with
assault and battery. The charges
were later increased to unlawful
wounding.

Baehr said he fired a BB pistol out
a second-floor window of the SAE
house but did not think he hit Roe.

Baehr said the pistol he shot was
not “very powerful at all’’ and that
he doubted the BB could travel far
enough to hit Roe where he was
standing.

Roe was taken to Stonewall Jack-
son Memorial Hospital, where he was
treated and released that night. The
police report said there was damage
to the retina of Roe’s right eye.

Baehr said he heard conflicting
reports of what injuries Roe sustain-
ed. ‘‘I would like to know what exact-

ly it did to his eye,” Baehr said Tues-
day.

Baehr said his main concern is
Roe’s health. ‘I’m just hoping the
guy’s eye is all right,” he said.

Baehr’s attempts to talk to and
apologize to Roe have been ignored,
he said, adding that Roe ‘‘said he was
advised not to talk tome.”

Baehr said Sgt. R.W. Hall, the ar-
resting officer, told him the unlawful
wounding charge — a felony — car-
ries a one to five-year jail sentence
and up to $5,000 in fines.

Baehr said the charges against him.
may be more severe than Roe
realizes. ‘‘I’m going to try to get him
to drop the charges,” Baehr said.

Baehr’s preliminary hearing is set
for March 25 in Lexington General
District Court.

Contacted by phone, Roe said, “I
can’t really talk about” the shooting.

.

, By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

 

+ Following an almost six-month delay,
, distribution of the 1984-85 Calyx began last
week. The Class of 1985 should be receiving
* their copies by mail directly from the pub-
, lisher ‘‘within two to four weeks,” according
to the book’s editor-in-chief, David Sprunt.
Calyx distribution continued on campus
+ this week and student opinion on the annual
publication was mixed.
“IT wasn’t really thrilled with the ‘road trip
» partv ’ ” said senior Greg Stites of Jackson-

r

ville, Fla., referring to a Polaroid photo
essay of a road trip. He added that he was
upset that his name was misspelled but
thought the annual, taken as a whole, was
“quite interesting and weil put together.”

Robert J. Tomaso ’85, who works as an ad-
missions counselor, is happy to have his
copy. “I think David did a very good job,
despite the fact that it took so long to get out.
I think David didn’t get as much help as
many other people who’ve worked on the
Calyx,’ Tomaso said.

“T really like the way he incorporated the
news of the time in the carly sections, I think

when you’re looking at the yearbook 30 years
from now, you might look back and say,
‘Now I really have a feel for what 1984-85 was
all about,’ ”’ Tomaso said.

Sophomore Todd Barton of Dunwoody, Ga.

disagreed, “It seemed kind of empty,” he
said.
“For the time we had to wait for it, I think
it was way below standards. Compared to
my high school yearbook, I don’t think it was
worth the wait,”’ Barton said.

The total publishing cost of the Calyx had
been estimated at approximately $41,000.
The Calyx, put out by the W&L Publications
Board, cost each W&L student roughly $8.50

from his student activities fee, according to
staff estimates. That’s $20.80 less than the
annual’s $29.30 estimated cost.

“Many students don’t realize they’re en-
titled [to an annual],’’ said Sprunt. Even if
an upperclassman hasn’t paid the $10 por-
trait fee, he can still pick up his 1984-85 Calyx
as provided for by the Student Body Constitu-
tion.

Portrait fees paid to the Calyx during
matriculation are not intended as a payment
for the annual, said Sprunt. The fees are
necessary to cover the expense of hiring
photographers, although a small portion
“taken off the top” goes toward funding the

1985 Calyx: Yes, Virginia, there really is a W&L yearbook

publication of the annual, said Sprunt. He
declined to say just how much of the fee went
to the Calyx.

Most of the funding for the yearbook comes
from student activities fees, advertisements,
donations and fraternity support, Sprunt ex-
plained.

Each fraternity pays an annual fee of $200
to appear in the Calyx — a fee Sprunt termed
a “mandatory contribution.”

“If it weren’t for fraternities, we couldn’t
have the book,” said Sprunt.

For their fee, each fraternity received two
pages in the annual, including a group pic-
ture as well as space for text.

+

,By BERT PARKS
Staff Reporter

 

+ Corruption in college athletic pro-
grams is the most critical issue fac-
ing the sports world, writer and
‘novelist Frank Deford told a Lee
«Chapel audience last night.
Deford, a senior writer for Sports
"Illustrated, kicked off the Contact ’86
electure series titled
Values in America.”’
“ Opening his talk, Deford related
-his first encounter with Washington
and Lee by recalling an article he
"wrote about the University of Vir-
‘ginia, after which he received
several letters containing ‘“Washing-
‘ton and Lee is THE University of
+WVirginia” bumper stickers.
Continuing in a humorous and
‘anecdotal manner — a style that also
characterizes his writing — Deford
traced the path of football through
‘the changes in American society.

++ “Football was never a sport, but a

rite,” Deford said. ‘‘Maybe it was a
game for two or three years, but it
quickly became serious entertain-
ment.”

The sport’s importance to the
teams became immediately evident.
In 1870, the Princeton faculty cancel-
ed its third-ever scheduled football
game because they felt the game was
being over-emphasized.

Harvard coaches at the time were

“Changing -

 

“Don’t over-emphasize
athletics, Deford urges

Lightner and Watt

lectures changed

A change in the dates of the
Contact ’86 lecture series will
bring Candy Lightner, founder of
Mothers Against Drunk Driving,
to Lee Chapel Tuesday night at
7:30.

Lightner was originally sched-
uled for March 18 and James G.
Watt, former Secretary of the In-
terior, was scheduled for Tues-
day, but the dates have been
switched because of contractual
conflicts. Watt will now speak at
7:30 p.m. March 18 in Lee Chapel.

Lightner is the second speaker
in the Contact ’86 lecture series
titled “Changing Values in
America.”’

 

 

 

already telling their players before
Harvard-Princeton games that ‘“‘this
is the most important thing you'll do
in your life.” A few years later,
Deford added, The New York Times
listed the two greatest evils of the
time as .lynchings and football.
Despite a rising death toll in amateur
football that reached 44 in 1903, the
violent head-bashing continued.

But, Deford said, the problem with
football in America is not the over-

 

Sports Illustrated’s Frank Deford speaks in Lee Chapel

emphasizing of the game itself, but
that it has become subject to
discrimination both for and against
itself.

“We can never de-emphasize
sports — they’re too glamorous, ex-
citing, sexy,’’ Deford said.

The biggest problem in football to-
day, Deford feels, is the corruption in
collegiate athletic programs, such as
drug use, excessive benefits given to
star athletes and illegal recruiting

practices.

The pressures causing such cor-
ruption begin with college presidents
who are responsible for raising funds
and for improving the reputation of
their schools, Deford explained. That
pressure is often transferred to the
coaches who must win games to keep
their jobs, and who sometimes get
ambiguous signals from college ad-
ministrations about recruiting prac-
tices.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Summer job workshops
scheduled for March 18

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

The Office of Career Development
and Placement will offer the second
in a series of two summer jobs work-
shops for juniors, sophomores, and
freshmen on March 18 in the Univer-
sity Center.

The first panel, of the workshop is
scheduled for 2 p.m. and will discuss
the “nitty-gritty” details of ‘‘devel-
oping a resume, cover letters, using
contacts, and alumni contacts,”
Placement Consultant Stephen
Bredin said.

Following the general information
session six panel presentations will
be held. Each panel will include three
or four seniors who have had sum-
mer jobs in a certain area, and a fac-
ulty member in that field will act as
moderator. Bredin said the students
will explain what they did last sum-
mer and how they got those jobs.

The panel discussions on jobs with
the federal, state and local govern-
ment, journalism and the media,
medicine biology and chemistry,
overseas or foreign language jobs,
sales and marketing positions, and
various counseling or ‘“‘supportive”’
jobs are scheduled for 3 p.m. and
againat4p.m.

The information included in the
first hour is a recap of the first sum-
mer jobs workshop held in February.

“We had a fair turnout,’ Bredin

 

SAB is subject of $369 suit for payment of bill from 1983

Wilson Field.

said, but added that they had “‘picked
a bad night.”

Bredin explained that the work-
shop will emphasize two major
points: There. is a “tremendous
variety of jobs out there for the varie-
ty of jobs out there for the person who
starts early” and ‘‘some of those
summer jobs are really a prerequi-
site to employment with that com-
pany.”

He cited the Coca-Cola Co. and
most New York City invesment
houses as examples of companies
that hire only college graduates who
worked there the previous summer.

Also, Bredin said he hopes the
workshop will give students an
“enlarged understanding of the
world outside and an increased
awareness of Washington and Lee as
a source of very capable people.”

Finally, Bredin said, “I would be
hopeful that it will be an annual af-
fair and that it will grow.”

In another project related to sum-
mer jobs, the Placement office has
“asked seniors to tell us what they
did last year,” Bredin said. These
will be put together in a file to enable
other students to get ideas for sum-
mer jobs and apply to the same com-
panies.

He added that they hope to expand
this file with report forms from all
students next fall.

 

cn NAN
-

Staff Reports

 

The Student Activities Board has been ordered to ap-
pear in court to reconcile a bill dispute that dates back
* to the 1983 Fancy Dress Ball.

. The SAB was served with a notice last month to ap-

pear in Roanoke General District Court tomorrow to
* resolve a $369.92 dispute with Stage Sound Inc. The ap-
« pearance has been changed to March 25 at the request
of the SAB.

The SAB no longer is using the services of Stage
» Sound, according to SAB treasurer George Boras. The
board is trying to move the case to Lexington, he said.

The company originally had chosen to ignore the bill,
’ which the SAB had refused to pay. The bill was a charge
for sound work in Warner Center.

SAB Chairman Mike Guerriero and Boras reported
* the notice to the Executive Committee Monday night.

» Inother ECaction:

Representatives of the Pavilion Improvement Com-
* mittee decided against alterations to the Student Ac-
. tivities Pavilion after meeting with Associate Dean of
Students Michael A. Cappeto.

Due to the likelihood that W&L will not be granted a li-
» quor license next year — thereby making parties with
alcohol in the pavilion illegal — fraternities probably
will not want to hold parties there, sophomore represen-
« tative Pat Schaefer said.

“Personally, I don’t think that the fraternities will
ever want to use this place if they are not going to be
+ able to serve any beer out there,” Schaefer said, So, he

 

 

added, it doesn’t make any sense to spend money mak-
ing the building more attractive to the fraternities if
they are not going to use it.

—Jason Lisi

Wa&L fashions featured

In recent months, Washington and Lee and Lexington
have been the subjects of magazine and newspaper ar-
ticles across the United States, Now interest in the
University and the city has extended across the ocean.

Men’s Club, a Japanese men’s fashion magazine, fea-
tures W&L and Lexington in a 30-page spread in its
March edition. The articles include many full-color
photographs and illustrations of students, Lexington-
ians and scenes from the campus and the city.

Masaku Hirasawa, editor of Men’s Club, spent three
days in Lexington in October with photographer Aki
Ohno and illustrator Hiroshi Watatani. The Japanese
vistors toured the campus and the city, meeting Lex-
ingtonians and getting a feel for the area.

The section of the article on W&L pertains mainly to
student fashions, although Hirasawa mentions the his-
tory of the University, its beautiful buildings, and some
of W&L’s famous graduates. The story says student
dress at W&L is “‘preppier than the Ivy League,”’ and
many of the students ‘‘look a lot like Troy Donahue.”

Editor is Visiting Fellow

Guenther Gillessen, senior editor, Frankfurter
Allegemeine Zeitung, will be a Woodrow Wilson Visiting

Fellow at Washington and Lee this week.

Gillessen’s visit is made possible by a grant from The
German Marshall Fund of the United States, as part of
a major new effort to increase understanding between
prominent Europeans and young Americans. The Ger-
man Marshall Fund was established in 1972 by a gift
from the Federal Republic of Germany to commemo-
rate American postwar assistance under the Marshall
Plan.

New collections librarian named

Erin E. Foley, archives professor and visiting lec-
turer at the University of Illinois at Chicago, has been
named special collections librarian and assistant pro-
fessor at Washington and Lee.

Foley will assume her duties April 1. She succeeds
Richard Oram, who resigned to accept a position at the
University of Toledo.

Foley received her bachelor’s degree in archaeology
from Yale University and her master’s degree from the
School of Library and Information Studies at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Madison, where she specialized in
archives and computer applications in archives and
libraries.

Cancer Run set for April 27

The Rockbridge Cancer Run ’86, ‘A Run with George
Cunningham,” will be Sunday, April 27 at 1:30 p.m. at

The third annual event will again be paying tribute to
Lexington’s George Cunningham, who — despite a bat-
tle with cancer — is one of the area’s most dedicated
runners.

The runs include a one-mile fun run/walk, and five-
and 10-kilometer road races. The 5K course will be
changed this year because of flood damage to the Ches-
sie Trail, and should prove to be a challenging course
for all levels of runners.

Runners who raise $10 in pledges will receive a t-
shirt. Arby’s and the University Florist have each
donated $200 to help defray the cost of the shirts.

Awards will be given for the top male and female run-
ners in the 5K and 10K races. Awards will also be given
for the top three men and women in each of the 11 age
groups. Certificates will be awarded to all participants.

In last year’s race, over 100 runners raised $1,700 for
the American Cancer Society. As an added incentive to
this year’s run, awards will be given to the runners rais-
ing the most money in each of three divisions: W&L stu-
dents, VMI cadets and individual runners. Door prizes
donated by local businesses will also be a part of this
year’s event.

The entry fee for the 5K and 10K races is $5; there is
no charge for the fun run. Entries must be postmarked
by April 22. Runners can also register on race day from
noon to 1 p.m. ; a late fee of $6 will be charged on the day
of the race. All entry fees are tax-deductible.

To obtain entry forms, maps of the course, or further
information, contact Patti Ryan-Mandel at 463-9432 or
Jim Dittrick at 463-3797.

LEER SE SLR ANE SEEN PERE A SONY RISEN AP REDON RC one vee aaweee

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

 

No party

Windows in the back of the Sigma Chi fraternity house
are broken out after three people smashed five windows,
five tables and 30 chairs in an incident last Thursday.
Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton said this week that
former student David M. Fagerness of Atlanta has ad-

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

mitted to causing the damage and “offered to make
restitution.”’ Sutton said the fraternity has decided not to
press charges against Fagerness, a former member of
the house and of the Class of 1988. Sutton said he didn’t
know the names of the other people involved.

Travel abroad can ‘liberate’
Students during spring term

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

“Travel is liberating.”’

That’s how history Professor
Roger B. Jeans recommends the
trips abroad offered by W&L.

Jeans, who specializes in East
Asian history, said the student can
reap many benefits from traveling
abroad.

W&L offers many opportunities for
students to travel to other countries
during the spring term, and most
programs allow students to earn six
credits in the six weeks abroad.

Usually, students live with a family
in the country they are visiting and
are free to do anything that will aid
them in learning about the country’s

culture.

Spanish Professor Adoracion Cam-
pis will take 18 students to Madrid to
study at Estudio Nacional Sampere,
a private school there. She said
students will take classes in the mor-
nings and have afternoons free to ex-
plore Madrid.

“Progress depends on the student
being aggressive and extroverted,”’
Campis said.

She added that students have to
“try to put themselves into situations
where they have to speak Spanish.”’

Students traveling to Germany will
study at the University of Bayreuth.
German Professor Robert B. Young-
blood said the purpose of the trip is
for the students to “learn as much
German in as little time as possible.”’

“Since Eurone is 1500 years old as

Wé&L grad to present
Phi Beta Kappa lecture

“The Hitler Quandary’”’ will be the
subject of the keynote address by
Yale University History Professor
Henry Ashby Turner Jr. at the Phi
Beta Kappa convocation next Thurs-
day at noon in Lee Chapel.

Turner, a 1954 Washington and Lee
graduate, is the leading spokesman
for one side in a debate raging in the
history profession over the use of
historical sources in a book about
Adolf Hitler’s rise to power in Ger-
many.

The controversy, which has erupt-
ed from the academic world into the
pages of Time magazine and The
Chronicle of Higher Education, has
led the American Historical Associa-
tion to consider adopting a code of
ethics for the first time in its century
of existence.

- Turner charges David Abraham, a
Princeton University associate pro-
fessor of history, with ‘‘the
systematically tendentious miscon-

strual of evidence” in a 1981 book

claiming that German big business
played a significant role in the rise of
Nazism.

In November of 1983, Abraham
submitted a list of corrections to
Princeton University Press, which
published the book, ‘The Collapse of
the Weimar Republic: Political
Economy and Crisis.”’

Turner, though, told The Chronicle
that ‘correction of errors in Abra-
ham’s book destroy his thesis.”’

“There is nothing left,’’ he said.
“This is not petty larceny; it is the
Rrink’s robbery of German history.”’

Robbery or not, Abraham’s thesis
is the opposite of that of Turner’s
“German Big Business and the Rise
of Hitler,’’ which found that Hitler
and his part, ‘received relatively lit-
tle support’’ from major commerical
interests, but instead were fortified
by grassroot partisans.

The book, which is dedicated to
William A. Jenks, who taught history
at W&L for four decades, was de-

 

compared to America’s 200, students
will learn to appreciate the much
longer view of history that Euro-
peans have compared to Ameri-
cans,’’ he added.

Youngblood also said that the trip
to East Berlin would serve as a ‘“‘win-
dow to allow students to see modern
communism.”’

The trip to France, headed by
French Professor Edward B. Hamer,
will have 12 students.

Three teachers will be hired to
teach students about topics including
contemporary French drama _art
and architecture.

Hamer said the students will be
“very much on their own’’ so that
they may ‘“‘discover a new civiliza-
tion and progress in the language.”

\

HENRY A. TURNER JR.

scribed by The New York Times as
‘the most comprehensive account to
date of the personal contacts and
financial relationships between big-
business executives and the Hitler
Movement.”

The talk and reception which fol-
lows are open to the public and free of
charge.

Prof to discuss British press

 

By JOHN PENSEC
Staff Reporter

 

Journalism Professor Clark R.
Mollenhoff will deliver a lecture on
the British press Monday evening at
7:30 in Northen Auditorium.

The speech, entitled “‘The British
Press: Laudable to Ludicrous, Lewd
and Lascivious, But Not Free,”’ deals
with Mollenhoff’s experiences while
an exchange Fellow at University
College, Oxford. Mollenhoff spent
five months in Great Britain in the
fail of 1980 and recently returned
from another extended stay.

 

Mollenhoff’s background on the
British media comes not only from
daily exposure to newspapers and
broadcasts, but also from talking
with British politicians, journalists
and academics. His Journalism 324
class, Mass Media and Government,
discussed issues in the British media
earlier this term.

The lecture will concentrate on
abuses of power by the British gov-
ernment, particularly in its discour-
agement of investigative reporting.
Under the British Official Secrets
Act, all information not specifically
released by the government is con-

sidered classified. This includes not
only things such as military secrets,
but also can be extended to cover
what was eaten at afternoon tea on a
specific day.

England has no legislation com-
parable to the Freedom of Informa-
tion Act that we have in the United
States. It is considered a crime both
to release information and to receive
it.

Under such a system, in-depth re-
porting by the news media is difficult
to conduct. According to Mollenhoff,
the system limits the effectiveness of
investigative reporters.

 

 

 

‘GENERAL NOTES

 

_The W&L Snack Bar will be closed
“tonight, March 6. A_ Snack
"Bar official declined to specify a
reason.

At noon next Thursday, Dr.
Henry A. Turner Jr. will deliver
the annual Phi Beta Kappa ad-
‘dress in Lee Chapel.

In order that faculty and

CLASSIFIEDS

students may be free to hear this
address, the following schedule of
classes will be observed:

A-D No Change

Assembly: 12:00

E - 1:30-2:10

The National College Internship
Service, specializing in internship

  

development for college students,
is now accepting applications for
summer 1986 internships.

Please call or write National
College Internship Service, 374
New York Ave., Huntington, N.Y.
11743 (516) 673-0440, for applica-
tion material

PERSONALS

SUDA:
ILOVE YOU

 

 

DAVID

 

 

 

 

Forum

Continued from Page 1

 

orator for the student body”’ in
meetings with administrators, and
noted the importance of the presi-
dent’s presentations to the board of
trustees, which can ‘“‘move very
quickly on things.”’

Each of the candidates addressed
honor-related issues.

Menon said students should expand
the concept of honor beyond its nar-
row ‘“‘lying, cheating and stealing
aspects’ to the broader sense of
honor associated with ‘‘the code of
the gentleman, gentlewoman, gentle-
person, whatever you call it.”’

Caruthers said the EC is “not the
police force’’ or “‘holier than thou,”’
but instead merely responds to honor
cases brought to it.

“If the students decide tomorrow
that cheating isn’t an honor violation
and it’s widespread, we have to en-
force what the students want us to,”’
Caruthers said. ‘‘We can’t put our-
selves on a pedestal as far as what
will be and what won’t be.”’

Thompson noted the dual ‘‘freedom
and responsibility’’ imposed by
W&L’s Honor System.

One student asked whether the EC
is sufficiently responsive to requests
from campus “‘interest groups.’’ The
EC last month rejected appeals for
temporary, non-voting female and
minority members of the Student
Control Committee.

In an initial vote in which the EC
approved the ad hoc woman position,
Caruthers and Menon favored the ap-
pointment and Thompson opposed it.
In a second vote on the female posi-
tion, all three were against it. In a
later vote to add a minority member,
Thompson voted for the change and
Caruthers and Menon against it. Both
measures ultimately failed.

“T don’t think there’s a problem,”
Menon said in response to the forum
question.

“We aren’t unreceptive to issues,
specifically ad hoc members or
minority members,’’ Caruthers said,

adding that “‘there is some tension
between upperclassmen and fresh-
men women, but that can be ex-
pected since most of the student body
was against coeducation.”’

Thompson said the requests for ad
hoc members were an “‘artificial con-
troversy’’ since there had been no
specific complaints about unfairness
on the part of the SCC. ‘Absent proof
that it wasn’t being carried out pro-
perly, I don’t see any controversy,”’
he said.

Increased unity between law and
undergraduate students was a goal
mentioned by all three candidates,
with Menon contending that “‘better
commitment is the key”’ to resolving
differences between the two groups.

Thompson said that he’s “been
able to see how real that ravine that
runs between the library and Woods
Creek can be’’ and that ‘‘the two
campuses seem to alienating them-
selves.”

Caruthers said many of the dif-
ferences between the two groups of
students result from the fact that the
law students are as muchas a decade
older than the undergraduates, often
are married and ‘“‘some of them have
children.”’

“T have yet to experience that,’’ he
added as the candidates and au-
dience laughed.

The presidential candidates’ con-
cern about tension between students
and administrators was echoed by
the two students running for vice
president, the office responsible for
supervising student body finances.
Neither of the candidates has served
on the EC.

Paul ‘‘Chief’’ Abott, a junior from
Richmond, said that ‘‘the pro-
blems between the student body and
the administration can’t be solved
overnight,”’ but pointed out that the
EC is “‘the go-between between the
student body and the administra-
tion.”

Junior Brandt Surgner of Philadel-
phia said that ‘the students should
govern themselves, and the admini-
stration should run the school,” but
that the EC should work to ‘mend
any gaps that might be there.”

Abbott said he’s found it “kind of

scary” this year that ‘‘there’s been a
lot of talk: ‘Does the Honor System
exist anymore?’ ”’

He noted a story in Tuesday’s Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch reporting that
a Radford University survey found 79
percent of the school’s students ad-
mit cheating in high school or col-
lege. ‘‘I believe that’s not so at
W&L,”’ Abbott said.

Surgner said that ‘sometimes I
find myself taking for granted
aspects of the Honor System such as
unproctored exams’’ and that preser-
ving the system is one of the EC’s
most important duties.

“Tt want to make sure that in 30
years when I come back to visit, it’ll
be close to the same school it is now,”
he said.

The two said they oppose ad hoc
female or minority representatives
to the Student Control Committee.

Abbott said that groups requesting
such an SCC member are “kind of
shirking [their] responsibility” not to
‘‘go through the political process.”’

Surgner added that such special
consideration ‘“‘would hurt the stu-
dent body, because it would only
divide the shudent body.”’

Both candidates for secretary
stated at the outset that they have no
experience in student government.

Junior Roby Mize of Dallas noted
that this year has been the school’s
“rookie season with coeducation”
and that there are ‘‘some rough
edges that have tobe smoothed.”’

Sophomore Rick Robins of New-
port News said that this year ‘‘the at-
mosphere of the school has changed
— there’s no doubt about that.”

Mize said a priority for the EC
should be revamping the Honor
System orientation for freshmen
since with an adequate introduction,
they “‘can’t understand its impor-
tance.”

Robins said the Honor System “is
great but could use some strengthen-
ing.”

Both said they oppose ad hoc SCC
representatives. Mize said “there
are better channels to work through”
and Robins added that ‘‘you need to
work through the system, not against
it.”

 

Catalog

 

 

©) Continued from Page 1

plagiarism in a student’s work, each said there are cer-

tain things in papers that tip him off.

‘‘Sometimes you pick up on something unusual or a fact
that would seem unlikely for a student to know,” Colvin

said. -

Duvall said plagiarism could be found in almost any
aspect of a paper. He listed a student’s writing style, the
subject matter addressed and a particular interpretation
that doesn’t seem quite right as ways to spot plagiarism.

Most often, Duvall said, a professor’s familiarity with
source material tips him off; he will be reading a paper

and think: ‘‘I’ve read that before!”’

Duvall used the analogy of a supermarket tabloid
newspaper headline to describe the catalog. He said he
was recently in a grocery store and saw a headline which
read: Take this pill and flush away five pounds! ”’

“That’s what this is,’ Duvall said, referring to the
catalog. “The five pounds is the paper I have for 226 and
using the catalog is flushing it away.”’

The miracle cure doesn’t require that the person lift a
finger to lose weight, Duvall said. And just as that in-
volves no physical exercise, buying a paper from a cata-
log allows a student to avoid mental exercise.

Colvin also characterized students’ ordering of papers
from a research service as taking the easy way out.

RESEARCH ASSISTANCE

CATALOG OF COLLEGIATE RESEARCH

 

14,278 TOPICS

RESEARCH ASSISTANCE

VE . SUITE 206
LOS ANGELES. CALIFORNIA 90025

(213) SEE (Custom Research)

(213) SM (Catalog Research)
(213) lm (Catalog Research)

TELEPHONE ORDERS
ACCEPTED

 

 

“There’s nothing they can get here that they can’t get

with hard work out of the library,’ he said. “It’s not like
they have some secret knowledge that they’re selling.”

The catalog states on its first page that ‘Research
Assistance has been serving the national academic com-
munity since October, 1969. This catalog lists 14,278 quali-
ty research papers. All papers were written by our staff
of professional writers, all with advanced academic
degrees, each a specialist in his field.”

Stekel identified the staff as “‘free-lancers’’ — people
who are working on film scripts, for instance. Because
“‘we have to control the quality’’ of the papers, Stekel
said the company doesn’t solicit papers from professors

or experts in particular fields.

Using the material strictly for research would not pose

VOLUME FIFTEEN

Each Year We Write Thousands of Papers
SEND $2.00 FOR NEXT YEAR'S CATALOG (VOLUME 16) IN SEPTEMBER, 1986
(Please include marketing code found on the back inside cover)

 

NEXT YEAR'S CATALOG

The Research Assistance catalog

senior EC representative Pat Hayden. He added that this
assumes that normal procedures for attribution of
sources are followed.

“If the professor is fully aware that you’re doing it,
there wouldn’t be any problem,’’ Hayden said.

Lewis agreed, saying that ‘‘to use the catalog for
anything but a source is plagiarizing.,

The response to the mailing campaign has been disap-

pointing, Stekel said. ‘It’s not as much as you'd think.
It’s a marginal thing.”

When asked how many orders the company has receiv-
ed since the catalog mailing, Stekel said there were none.

“So far, it doesn’t look too good,’’ he said.

Colvin said he would expect business to pick up, but not

 

  
 
 

 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

difficulties as far as honor matters are concerned, said _ necessarily at W&L.
NEED Lutul 103-463-1670 Typists—$500 weekly
A CAR? = | WltuL Emergency at home. Write: P.O.
103-377-6331 Box 975, Elizabeth,
Students under 21 NJ 07207
Must Have
prior Insurance =
Approval Brian and Doris Summer or Fall 1986
Fredricksea Summer 1987
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450 WASHI NGTON
OR

 

 

 

© comaypeacseftamaenaaptneypemanpeccnficmetiese
é4i got my Fulbright
scholarship by
helping Costa Rican
children discover the

toothbrush.??

Work. Share. Save lives.

Craig Leon
Haifa, Israel

If you can meet the challenge, your summer in Latin America can

bring a lifetime of rewards.

Like leadership skills. And a career edge you can’t get anywhere else.
To be an Amigos volunteer, write: Amigos de las Americas, 5618

Star Lane, Houston, Texas 77057,
Or call: 1-800-231-7796. In Texas,

call: 1-800-392-4580,

fucs,

4 Sghomeagiomyinemptamepcciiingtian

LONDON
INTERNSHIPS

SUMMER SESSION ONLY
at Wadham College
of the University of

OXFORD

Accredited courses in government,
economics, journalism and pre-
law by an outstanding faculty,

Full Academic Year Programs at
the London School of Economics,
St. Andrews Universities, for
Qualified Juniors and Seniors.

All credits transferred through
Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia
(Founded in 1776)

 

 

Inquiries to:
Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D.
Admissions Director
The Washington International
Studies Center
212-724-0804 or 0136
(EO/AA)
teeta

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

 

Track claims ODAC title;
Bleggi, Aldridge honored

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee track
team did not have to leave town to go
a long way last weekend, winning
their third straight Old Dominion
Athletic Conference indoor cham-
pionship at VMI’s Cormack Field
House.

The Generals came away with 141
points, 25 more than the second-place
finisher, Lynchburg. Roanoke (80
points), Bridgewater (54 points) and

Lax loses

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

If the outcome of sporting events
were determined solely by the
amount of effort put forth by the par-
ticipants, the Washington and Lee
lacrosse team would be national
champions by now. As it is, there are
many more factors that enter into the
decision. Last Saturday, Duke taught
W&L that lesson, narrowly defeating
the Generals by a score of 7-6.

“We went in thinking we could
win,” said head coach Dennis Daly.
“The teams are very evenly matched
and, over the course of a number of
games, the teams would probably
end up 5-5 against each other, with
the largest margin of victory being
two goals.”

Emory and Henry (30 points) tinisn-
ed third, fourth and fifth.

Aside from the title, W&L also
came away with the top two individ-
ual honors. Head coach Norris
Aldridge was named ODAC Coach of
the Year, and senior sprinter Chris
Bleggi was picked as the Runner of
the Year. This was the third consecu-
tive year that Aldridge received the
award.

“It’s an honor that was bestowed
on me mainly because of what the
young men on the team did,’’ the
coach said.

The Generals collected seven first

place finishes out of a possible 14 on
their way to the title, including the
400-meter and 3,200 meter relays.

Individually, junior Tom Murray
won the shot put with a toss of 45-8.
Another junior, John Burlingame,
contributed to the cause by finishing
first in the long jump with a leap of
21-744. Andy White emerged victor-
ious in the 55-meter hurdles (8.01), as
did Conrad Boyle in the 800-meter
hurdles (2:00.93). Bill Rhinehart
rounded out the first-place finishes

with his 43’11” effort in the triple *

jump.

 

 

CHRIS BLEGGI

despite defensive effort, 7-6

As close as the game was, that is an
accurate assessment. The teams
played tight defense throughout, and
the score was tied following each of
the first three periods.

But in the fourth quarter, Duke
worked very quickly to change that
situation. Scoring two goals within
the first two minutes, Duke went up
6-4. The teams then traded goals, and
the tally stood at 7-5 with less than a
minute to play.

Much to their credit, the Generals
did not surrender. W&L’s Caulley
Deringer scored with 30 seconds left
in the game, pulling W&L to within
one. The Generals’ Sandy Harrison,
who was honored by the team as of-
fensive player of the game for winn-
ing 10 of his 16 face-offs, then won the

following face-off. Teammate Rob
Stanton’s last second shot sailed wide
and the Generals ended up on the
short end of the 7-6 score.

“Both defenses played better than
both offenses,’ said Daly. ‘“‘Our of-
fense was disappointing — we only
took 26 shots in a game where we felt
we should have taken many more.”’

“Our EMO [Extra-Man Offense]
was good. Unfortunately our regular
offense was not as good,” continued
Daly. ‘‘We would have been disap-
pointed [with the offense] whether
we won 8-7 or lost 7-6.”

“Tt’s tough when a game is so close
because you can always look back
and say, ‘What if?’,”’ said Daly. ‘‘But
we’ve got to stop worrying, and think
about improving next time.”

“Next time” will be Saturday at

Wilson Field against Virginia Tech.
The Generals have beaten Tech in all
five meetings of the teams, including
a 23-0 rout in 1984.

“We'll be playing a team that we
haven’t seen yet, because this will be
their first game [of the year],’’ said
Daly. ‘But that gives us an advan-
tage, just like Duke had an advan-
tage over us. We had the opening-
game jitters and made some
mistakes.”’

“Our EMO and EMO defense are
efficient and effective and we'd like
to maintain them,”’ said Daly.

“We're going to have to create and
execute our fast break better,”’ said
Daly. “If we can’t do that, then we’re
going to have to get more from our
regular offense.”’

Tennis winless against Div. | foes

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The ‘Washington and Lee tennis
team got off to a rocky start against
some very strong Division I teams
this week and came up on the short
end all three times they went for the
upset.

The Generals lost to Penn State
(9-0) on Friday, James Madison (5-4)
on Monday and yesterday were
denied once more in their bid for win
No. 1 of 1986 when the homestanding
Hokies of Virginia Tech downed
W&L, 6-3.

Going into the VPI match, W&L
head coach Gary Franke gave the
edge to the Hokies, due to Tech’s real
home “‘court’’ advantage. Franke in-
dicated that the Tech courts are quite
faster than W&L’s and thus stand as
a considerable advantage for them.

Wins for the Generals came from
No. 1 seed David McLeod, winning in
a tight singles match, 7-5, 7-5.

Freshman Bobby Matthews got his
first regular-season match win as a
General when he defeated his Tech
opponent, 7-5, in the third set.

In doubles, the No. 1-seeded team
of McLeod and Jack Messerly got its
second straight win of the season.
The sophomore tandem entered the
season as one of the best doubles
teams in NCAA Division III.

According to Franke, going into the
Generals’ season opener, the team
knew it was facing an improved Penn
State team, compared to the team of
last year that the Generals nearly
upset.

Though W&L was shut out in the
team scoring there were some close

. matches. Sophomores Chris Wiman

and Messerly both took their singles

First-year lady netters

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

When the first Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team opens its sea-
son against Sweet Briar this Monday
at 3:30 on the W&L courts, no one
knows what to expect.

~ “For all we know we may be the
best team in the conference,”’ said
head coach Bill Washburn.

Reerrers ny (RE

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Kall

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

i Route 11 North
ee a ee ea

Oc I

Working with a new program has
made Wasbburn’s job more difficult
than most coaches’. Because he has
no returning players, he is building a
program from scratch. After a short
fall practice season, bad weather has
limited spring practice to only two
outdoor workouts. Washburn has also
encountered a roster change: three
players from last tall no longer par-
ticpate, while two other players have
recently joined the squad.

Bei ad

BEAUTY
BOUTIQUE

Come by for a quick cut
or style for

Fancy Dress

HOURS:
Mon. through Fri.
Evenings by appointment

OPERATORS:
Mary, Ella Mae, Lynn
and Phyllis

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE

107 W. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2422

 

i.

matches to three sets, including
missed match points for Wiman.
Wiman lost by a score of 4-6, 7-6 (7-3),
6-0, and Messerly 6-7 (8-6), 6-3, 6-1.

The Generals’ doubles teams all
challenged their Penn State oppo-
nents, in their eight game pro sets.
The No. 1 team of sophomore
McLeod and Messerly lost 8-6. Junior
Roby Mize and Matthews, at the No.
2 slot, took their match to the tie-
breaker, losing 7-4. The No. 3 team of
Wiman and senior Scott Adams lost
8-5.

On Monday, against Division I
James Madison, the Generals nar-
rowly missed upsetting the team that
shut them out last year.

The Generals split the singles com-
petition. Wins came from Mize 6-2,
3-6, 6-3, Wiman, 6-7 (8-6), 6-2, 7-5; and
Adams, 6-2, 6-0.

With the match all tied up, the
Generals won the first doubles match

with McLeod and Messerly winning
in straight sets 6-1, 6-1. The Generals,
though, were unable to obtain the
fifth point. Mize and Matthews lost a
tough match after having won the
first set, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3. Wiman and
Adams lost in straight sets, both of
which went to tie breakers, 7-6, (7-4),
7-6 (7-5).

“It was a disappointing loss
because we were so close,’”’ Franke
said. He commented that team
members would need to work at
“closing out’’ close matches.

The tennis team will at least be
able to take a brief rest as it enjoys
Fancy Dress. It is then back to a busy
and important month of tennis, in-
cluding a weekend trip to Philadel-
phia in two weeks, where the
Generals will face two of the best
Division III tennis programs in the
nation, Swarthmore (on the 22nd)
and Claremont-Mudd-Scripps (on the
23rd).

are unknown quantity

These circumstances prevented
Washburn from naming a starting
line-up less than a week before the
first match. He summarized his posi-
tion saying, ‘You don’t know what
you can count on.”’

Washburn plans to use fall practice
results and a current players’ ladder
to determine the starting line-up.
Fall results reveal that Bitsy Hopper,
Valerie Pierson, Dana Anstine, and
Martha Christian will be competing

for the top spots. But Washburn ad-
ded that he does not know whether
the spring line-up will resemble last
fall’s or not

W&L will participate in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference. The
team’s nine-match schedule, conse-
quently, revolves around conference
matches and concludes with the con-
ference championships at Hollins
College on April 25 and 26.

Valley True Value Hardware

True Value

HARD

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street

463-2186

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00

 

 

 

You know what they say about

Rio

Where time is supposed to stand
still;

So have a great time this
weekend,

We at Huffman-White know you

will!

  
 

t)

Florist

 

463-9152

 

 

165S. Main
ho

 

 

Idol’s

TIME
CT Bivens

image

....Commissioner Peter Ueberroth
decided to make baseball into a
game that was worthy of NBC's
Saturday afternoon advertisements.
You know the ones: Where father
and son are playing catch and then
run inside to watch TV. (You see, it
doesn’t look too good if father and
son run inside to watch TV only to
see that another of their favorite
players is snorting coke this week. )

 

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

And that’s what this whole deal is about, campers. Image. Image
has gotten a bad reputation of late, but here I’m not talking about the
way one presents oneself in spray paint ads; I’m not talking about the
son all those eight-year-old little boys idolize. Ultimately, that’s what
athletes need to be concerned about. It unfortunately is also what very
few these days are concerned about.

How important is it to have athletes as role models? Oh, not very
much. To me, anyway. But then I’m 22 years old and my mommy
doesn’t dress me, most of the time. What about if I’m in the second
grade? You see, rationalizations — and that’s what we're starting to
hear from some of those lucky enough to be reprimanded by Ueber-
roth — don’t work with someone who isn’t even old enough to figure out
what all the statistics on the back of Keith Hernandez’ bubble gum
card mean. There isn’t any reason anymore to respect and pseudo-
worship the various gentlemen with numbers on their backs.

There must be something of the little boy in Peter Ueberroth. Or at
least something that lets him remember what it is like to be a little
boy, what it is like to think the world revolves around No. 39 of the Cin-
cinnati Reds. The problem is that too many of the Dave Parkers of the
world have thought the world revolves around them.

It seems that the only man who is against mandatory drug testing is
Donald Fehr, executive director of the players’ union. Donald Fehr
doesn’t remember what it’s like to be a little boy. I wonder if Donald
Fehr ever was a little boy.

Now while there weren’t all that many players involved in the com-
missioner’s mission, there were enough to get the message across:
Let’s see if we in the major leagues can develop some strong character
traits. And the message is getting across to management, to players,
to fans. But how many youngsters make up one major leaguer? Do we
all remember the story of Charlie Brown and his favorite baseball
player, Joe Slabotnik? Well, good ol’ Chuck thought Joe Slabotnik was
what the game was all about. He was willing to trade his Yogi Berra,
his Mickey Mantle, and his Willie Mays cards for just one Joe Slabot-
nik.

I’m sure we’ve all had our Joe Slabotniks. Mine was a guy who
played football for the 49ers named Ken Willard. The point is these
guys make those of us who worship them feel good. That is they used
to. Nowadays, we’re not so sure about them and that’s a crime.

See if you can remember what it felt like to get your first autograph.
The stuff of which NBC commercials are made, I’ll bet. I think profes-
sional, college and (why not?) high school athletes need to see if they
can remember what if felt like to get their first autograph. They might
also try to remember what it was like to find out that Santa Claus
wasn’t real.

If they did, maybe the game’s commissioner wouldn’t have to spend
his time playing den mother to a group of nose-candy prima donnas,
and if the commissioner didn’t have to do that, maybe he could return
to some of his other duties, like thinking up more father-and-son com-
mercials for NBC. It would be nice....

=) Carnaval!-ing on the Colonnade this week and before we go any
further, let’s give a large tip of the top hat to Messrs. Aldridge and
Bleggi and the rest of the W&L track stars for their awards as Coach-
and Runner-of-the-Year and team conference champion. A bit of a
footnote: W&L’s track team has the highest cumulative G.P.A. of all
Generals’ men’s teams...Good to see Larry Anker recognized as
Academic All-American. Again, credit where credit is due....

 

 

 

Generals matted at nationals

  

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s grapplers
ended their 1985-86 campaign on a
disappointing but encouraging note
at last weekend’s NCAA Division III
Tournament.

On the positive side, the Generals
qualified two wrestlers at the NCAA
Division III Eastern Regional to
compete in the NCAA’s national tour-
nament, something W&L had been
unable to do for a decade.

However, things did not exactly go
the Generals’ way once they got to

the NCAA Tournament, held at Tren-
ton State College in Trenton, N.J.

Senior co-captain Larry Anker,
selected as a wild-card participant,
was upended in the first round by the
eventual champion. In the wrestle-
back round, Anker was again defeat-
ed, this time in overtime.

Fellow senior Win Phillips’ fate
was even more disappointing than
Anker’s, perhaps even a bit tragic:
After mauling his first round oppo-
nent, Phillips was forced to default
both round two and the wrestle-back:
round because of an injury. Franke
called the turn of events ‘‘a big disap-
pointment.”’

a ee eee ae

VIDEO CENTER
OF LEXINGTON

xk *
* SPECIAL x
xk *&

With this coupon
Movie Rentals — 52.00 per day
3 for *5.00

Player Rental — $5.00
1 Year Membership — 99°

Offer Expires March 31

Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center - 463-2177
Mon.-Sat. 11-9 p.m.

Sun. 12-5 p.m.
 

“BACK PAGE

ee the Bet frre eet et oe
$018 Get seers & tee

 

 

   

A letter from Katherine Anne Porter on display in the University Library

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Shenandoah’s prominence
shown in authors’ letters

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

- Eudora Welty, Marguerite Yourcenar, William
Faulkner, e.e. cummings, Langston Hughes, Flannery
O’Connor, James Dickey and Katherine Anne Porter.

- They all have written for Shenandoah, Washington and

“Lee's literary quarterly, but they have something else in

‘common. They're all featured in a display celebrating

-‘Shenandoah’s 35th anniversary. The display is composed
of letters from the authors to the editor of the magazine.

The correspondence from these authors is very reveal-
-ing about the nature of Shenandoah and the key to its suc-

“cess.

Peggy Hays, reference librarian and acting special col-
lections librarian, said, ‘‘A lot of these people wrote for
‘Shenandoah before they really really reached their fame.

“We have been very fortunate to have editors that could
‘spot quality writers and make contacts on a friendship
‘basis.””

It is this “friendship basis’’ that one senses when
visiting the display. The letters are not formal business
letters, but friendly notes.

One letter from James Dicky to Shenandoah’s editor,
Washington and Lee English Professor James Boat-
wright, mentions ‘the good will I always feel when I read
your letters.”

Eudora Welty wrote to Boatwright, ‘‘I’m grateful, once
more, for your doing such a generous thing as you're do-

 
      
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
     
  
 

 

The Student Activities Board of
Washington and Lee University
would like to thank our 1986

Fancy Dress Director
Rob Tolleson

for abandoning Fancy Dress
Six days ago by going to the
Bahamas with his tail between his

legs and an SAB member-at-large

by his side.

Great
Job

Rob!

ing and I wish there were a better way of thanking you.”
There is more than just an author/publisher relationship
between Shenandoah and its writers, and the display in
the Boatwright Room of the Univeristy Library makes
this clear.

The display also gives one an idea of the variety that
Shenandoah has had in its writers. Long before the civil
rights and feminist movements, Shenandoah was break-
ing ground in the literary world by ignoring racial and
sex-based issues.

This was a theme Hays had in mind when designing the
display. Of the eight authors in the exhibit, four are
women, one is black and there are representatives from
the North and South.

“T think it is important that Shenandoah was colorless
and sexless. Race and sex were not the issue. Good
writing was the issue,’’ she said.

The eight authors represented in the display are just a
small sampling of what Shenandoah has to offer. Hays
said the toughest part of putting it together was deciding
which authors were to be left out.

“The display is truly interesting and significant and it
is just the tip of the iceberg of what’s in the Shenandoah
file,” she said.

Lynn Williams, tne managing editor of Shenandoah,
calls the display and the anthology published to celebrate
the 35th anniversary ‘“‘a gathering of the best and the
brightest,’’ but added “‘it saddens me that so many
students don’t know it even exists.”

The Shenandoah letters will be on display through June
in the Boatwright Room.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

 

American landscapes on display

By MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporter

 

Thirty landscapes by American ar-
tist Wolf Kahn are being displayed at
the duPont Gallery through March
19. Titled ‘Pastel Light,"’ the exhibit
showcases the work of a_ painter
praised for his ability to achieve ‘‘a
fine balance between tradition and
modernism, representation and ex-
pression.”’

Kahn was born in Germany in 1927,

but emigrated to the United States as
a young child. After studying at the
New York High School of Music and
Art, he attended the Hans Hoffman
School and then went on to receive
his bachelor's degree at the Universi-
ty of Chicago. He now resides in New
York

Kahn was a recipient of the prestig-
ious Fulbright grant as well as the
Guggenheim endowment. Most re-
cently, he was elected a member of
the American Institute of Arts and
Letters. His works are included in the
collections of the Metropolitan Muse

 

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, March 6
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “Computer Applications in
Molecular Biology.’’ Martin G. Radvany, '87. Room 401.
7p.m.— POLITICS FILM: ‘‘Fail-Safe.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.
7:30 p.m. — LECTURE: “The Political Situation in Germany Today.”
Guenther Gillessen, German Marshall Fund Fellow. Northen
Auditorium, University Library.

Friday, March7
8:30 p.m. — FANCY DRESS BALL. Warner Center.

Saturday, March 8
2p.m.— LACROSSE: Generals vs. Va. Tech. Wilson Field.

Sunday, March 9
1:30 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. W.Va. Tech. Smith Field .

Monday, March 10
3:30 p.m. — WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Sweet Briar.
7:30 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘“‘The British Press: Laudable to Ludicrous,
Lewd, and Lascivious, But Not Free.’’ Clark Mollenhoff, W&L pro-
fessor of journalism. Northen Auditorium, University Library.

Tuesday, March 11
4 p.m. — LECTURE: “Gesture and Gender in Ancient Art.” Dr.
Margaret Mayo, Ancient Art Curator, Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.
duPont Auditorium.
7&9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: “‘State of Siege.” Room 203, Reid
Hall.

Wednesday, March 12
4 p.m, — ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: “Reading and Commentary:
Poems in Progress.”’ Dabney Stuart, Professor of English. Payne 21.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: W&L University Glee Club along with Wake
Forest Concert Choir. Lee Chapel.
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN THE G.H.Q.: featuring “Johnny
Sportcoat and the Casuals.” Sponsored by the Student Activities
Board. Cover charge $2.50.

 

 

te Front Ma rh

a

167 S. Main St., 463-3106 C7

vive

While you’re on your way to
“Rio” stop by and stock up on all
your weekend needs with us —

We have a complete line of
domestic and imported beers,
mixers, chips, dips, etc...

along with the finest meats in town
We can special cut your steaks for you.

FD Specials on Budweiser and Andre Champagne, Cokes,

Pepsis and other necessities.
—Student charge accounts are still available and can be sent home—

Have a good trip

 

to Rio!

 

 

Calizza: Turn over

anew lunch.

Introducing Calizza™
Italian turnover. A “al
delicious new i
lunch from Pizza = [
Hut thats served in |
only five minutes.

We have two varie-
ties— Italian sausage
Calizza™ and five cheese
Calizza™ Each of them a delicious combination of
ingredients stuffed inside freshly-made dough, baked
until golden-brown and served with rich
tomato sauce and parmesan cheese.

 
  

Guaranteed ready in 5 minutes after you order, or your next one is free, 11:30 AM-1:00
PM/Monday-Friday. Applies to selections listed above on orders of five or less.
CALIZZA is a trademark of Pizza Hut, ine. for its brand of Ltalian turnover. CALIZZA
TM Italian turnover and Personal Pan Pizza available 11 AM to 4 PM/Monday-

am. 463-7000
600 E. Nelson

Lexington

iat

© 1985 Preca Hut Ine Cahcsa is a mademark ot Pieza Hut Ine tor its brand of ltalian camover

 

um of Art, the Museum of Modern
Art, and the Whitney Museum,
among others

Kahn's most distinctive trademark
is his creative use of color in the
scenes he depicts. Inspired by the
unique New England landscape, his
work is undeniably American and
conveys a strong sense of location.
With their eclectic artistic influences
and unique composition, the paint-
ings of Kahn are unconventional pre-
sentations of a singular perspective
on nature.

Lloyd Cole
Causes a
Commotion

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

 

Lloyd Cole and the Commotions
are an English major’s dream come
true.

On their debut album, ‘‘Rattle-
snakes,’’ which came out last year,
lead singer/songwriter Lloyd Cole
sang, ‘‘She looks like Eve Marie-
Saint in ‘On the Waterfront’/She
reads Simone de Bouvoir/in her
American circumstance.”

That was the chorus to the title cut.
And it was catchy. I went around
singing it for a month.

Another song opened with the
verse, “I was looking for a
rhyme/For the New York
Times/When I sensed I was not
alone./She said, /‘“‘Do you know how
to spell ‘audaciously?’ ’’/and I knew
I was in love.”’ For Lloyd Cole, ‘‘pre-
tentiousness”’ is not a dirty word: It’s
a compliment.

Their new album, ‘‘Easy Pieces,”’
is not quite as good as last year’s
stunner, primarily because it isn’t
pretentious enough. The name-
dropping and sardonic cynicism that
fueled ‘‘Rattlesnakes”’ is replaced by
irony and ennui. Also, the music is
not as vibrant.

That aside, ‘‘Easy Pieces”’ is still
one heckuva record. If cynicism has
been replaced by irony, then similar-
ly bittness has been replaced by
tenderness.

Last year, Cole prescribed cyni-
cism to an idealist in ‘Are You
Ready To Be Heartbroken?” (’’Bet-
ter read Norman Mailer/Or get a
new tailor,’’ he sneered.) On the new
album’s ‘‘Grace,” Cole sings about
Jesse, who looks ‘‘so pale and old and
so very ill at ease these days.”

However, Cole seems more sympa-
thetic to his character when he sings,
“out in the summer rain/we will
begin again.”

On ‘Why I Love Country Music’”’
(which, ironically, has not a note of
slide guitar), Cole sings about a rela-
tionship gone sour. “I am_ just
tired/She’s way past caring.”

Neither one, however, has the
gumption to get up and leave. ‘‘We
drink Spanish wine and she plays
country records until the morning.”’
Not quite a Prince song, is it?

“Easy Pieces’’ is full of fascinating
moments like this. Cole paints entire
relationships in three verses and a
chorus, while the Commotions back
him up with understated skill and
elegance. The music is tasteful with
enough hooks to fill a tackle-box and
Cole's voice is at once effective and
endearing.

“Brand New Friend” swings with
just enough Motown to give it soul
and picks up where “Why I Love
Country Music” leaves off.

“Last Weekend’ bounces along
merrily like Lou Reed in a good
mood, while Cole sings about a rela-
tionship consummated and destroyed
in 48 hours.

“Perfect Blue” closes the record
and recalls middle-period Roxy
Music with its poignant lyric and
evocative melody.

So Lloyd Cole and the Commotions
are the Next Important Thing.
Although more subdued and straight-
forward than their gutsy debut,
“Easy Pieces”’ is still a terrific in-
troduction to a terrific songwriter
and a major new talent. Get ‘em
before they're hot.

 

 

 

 

TYPING
Beh
463-5802

Letter w/env.
ivory or White
=e $] PT}
Carrel/Dorm
Delivery Available

 

 
