 

 

Lewis a milk

 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 19°

and cookies guy?
Page 3

 

 

 

Beer

IFC president

 

 

against late Rush
Page 3 |

Che King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 
  
   

 

Hee €

FEB J

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your break weather

Florida: Sun
Vail: Snow

 

FEBRUARY 13, 1986

 

 

  

Board says divestment isn’t
the answer for apartheid

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L
EC President John Lewis (third from right) with trustees in Northen Auditorium

Trustees vote not to divest:
felon readmission studied

Girard case sparks debate
on rules for readmittance

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

An ancient adage warns the impetuous against cutting
off their noses to spite their faces.

That was the reasoning the Board of Trustees used this
weekend in deciding not to dispose of Washington and
Lee’s investments in companies doing business in South
Africa.

The board said in an eight-page statement that
although apartheid is reprehensible, monetary muscle is
neither an appropriate nor necessarily an effective way
to promote social change in the riot-ridden Republic of
South Africa.

“The consensus in America and on the Board are that
the South African policy of apartheid is unconscionable
and intolerable,’’ the statement said. ‘“‘However, the con-
sequences of divestment both on corporate behavior and
upon South African policy are impossible to foresee.’’ For
that reason, the Board on Saturday reaffirmed its 1983
policy rejecting divestment.

“The role of an educational institution is to foster a
dialogue ... and not take a doctrinaire position on any
issue,’’ explained trustee C. Royce Hough III of Jackson-
ville, Fla. ‘“‘We should not use an investment portfolio as
a weapon to achieve ends other than the health or well-
being of the school.”’

OSee Divest, Page 4

Strader named
Phi co-editor

Senior Jim Strader was named co-
editor of The Ring-tum Phi this week,
filling a vacancy created by the
resignation of senior Cotton Puryear.

Strader, a senior from Mount
Lebanon, Pa., had been the paper’s
news editor and is a member of the
Kappa Alpha social fraternity. His
professional experience includes
work with radio stations KDKA in
Pittsburgh and WREL in Lexington.

Puryear said in a letter that he was
resigning ‘‘with great sorrow’’ but
that recently he had “found it nearly
impossible to do justice to my com-
mitments to The Phi and to my other
commitments outside The Phi.”’

Strader was appointed Sunday by
the University Publications Board
and becomes a member of that body.

INSIDE

The Board of Trustees played
‘Name that House” last weekend,
christening the planned residence
hall and renaming the MSA house
on Lee Avenue, page 4

The Generals’ basketball team
crushed Emory University last

 

The Board of Trustees last weekend discussed a possi-
ble change in University policy that would automatically
deny readmission to convicted felons, University Presi-
dent John D. Wilson said.

The issue came to light following the readmission this
winter of Gene Girard, who last summer was found guilty
of cocaine possession. During the first week of the term,
the Student Control Committee suspended Girard for the
remainder of the academic year.

Wilson said the trustees discussed whether Girard
should have appeared before the SCC at all, or instead
should have been automatically denied readmission.

“The final question is whether or not the board could or
should contemplate a policy that would deal with certain
kinds of the most serious character failures in a categori-
cal way,”’ Wilson explained.

‘“‘An alumnus has written the board and said, ‘A con-
victed felon should forfeit his right to attend Washington
and Lee. This oughtn’t be something that has to be ad-
judicated.’ ”

The matter was referred to the board’s Executive Com-
mittee, which will study the question at a special meeting
— likely in March — and report to the full board at its;
next meeting on May 24. The eight-member committee is

(See Board, Page 4

Dippin’

Despite tobacco health warnings, students go smokeless

 

 

 

night, page 5

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Michael Marr discards tobacco juices into a cup

for cocaine

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

A Washington and Lee junior con-
victed of cocaine possession began
serving six months in the Rockbridge
County jail last night. He was sen-
tenced Monday to five years in jail
with all but half a year suspended.

Andrew Russell Putnam, an ad-
ministration major from Wyoming,
Ohio, was arrested March 31 with 30
milligrams of cocaine. He was con-
victed in Rockbridge County Circuit
Court on Sept. 18, after being indicted
by a grand jury Sept. 3.

At 4:40 p.m. yesterday, 20 minutes
before Putnam’s sentence officially
was to begin, a woman drove him up
to the jail. He went in with textbooks
under his arm.

Putnam’s attorney, Laurence A.
Mann of Lexington, filed a motion
asking that Putnam be permitted to
leave jail during the day to attend
classes.

A final decision on that motion has
not been made, according to Circuit
Court clerk D. Bruce Patterson, but,
Patterson added, Putnam was
granted permission to leave jail to
take tests today and tomorrow.

In the pre-sentence recommenda-
tion filed at the Rockbridge County
Courthouse, Commonwealth’s Attor-
ney Beverly C. ‘‘John’” Read asked
that Putnam be given a sentence of 10
years in jail, the maximum that
Virginia allows for the offense.

Read listed among his reasons for
requesting that sentence the fact that
while Putnam has been a student at
W&L, a special grand jury was con-
vened to handle drug investigations,
numerous W&L students had been
charged with drug offenses, and
several have been convicted and
sentenced.

 

@ Junior gets six months
possession

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Andrew Putnam enters the Rockbridge County Jail yesterday

“Enough is enough for our com-
munity!’’ the recommendation
states, adding that one of the pur
poses of punishment is to deter others
from committing similar offenses
Previous cases in Lexington had no
effect on Putnam, Read said, despite
their number while he has been at
W&L.

Also listed in the report as reasons
for imposing the maximum sentence
are Putnam’s refusal to cooperate

with law enforcement officials in
their drug investigations, his admis-
sion to using drugs ‘“‘socially”’ for an
extended period of time, and a crimi-
nal record that includes a May 29
conviction in Lexington District
Court for petty larceny, for which he
received a five-day suspended jail
sentence, and various traffic misde-
meanors.
Reached Tuesday evening, Put-

nam had no comment on his case.

EC votes not to appoint minority

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

The Executive Committee on Mon-
day defeated a motion to appoint a
non-voting minority member to the
Student Control Committee.

The vote followed nearly an hour of
discussion with representatives of
the Minority Student Association and
other students. Last week the EC
moved to delay the vote a week in
order to gather student opinion.

The motion was defeated 8-4 with

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

junior representatives Baltzer Le-
Jeune and Michael Black; third-year
law representative Joel Johnston and
second-year law representative Bill
Thompson voting for the position
Freshman representative Matt
Bryant did not attend the meeting

Supporters of the ad hoc non-voting
minority member feel the position is
necessary to provide a more ‘‘sen-
sitive’’ viewpoint to the 13-member
board in cases involving minority
students as the defendant or victim

Senior Bill Rhinehart, an MSA

 

 

Smokeless tobacco has been surrounded by many un-
answered questions, but recently some answers have

been found.

Recent studies have begun to show dangers of the use
of smokeless tobacco. Among them are receding gums,
loosened teeth, higher blood pressure, and tough white
patches called leukoplakia forming on the tongue and

cheeks,

Arden Christen, chairman of the preventative den-
tistry department at Indiana University, says the use of
smokeless tobacco can cause visible damage ‘‘in as lit-

tle as three to four months.”’

Although the link between cancer and the use of
smokeless tobacco is not quite as clear as with cigaret
tes, doctors estimate that between 3 percent and 6 per-
cent of leukoplakia become malignant.

Despite the fact these dangers are becoming more
publicized, the amount of snuff sold in the United States

is up 60 percent since 1978.

 

 

There are three categories of smokeless tobacco:

chewing tobacco, which is placed between the cheek

and gum; dry snuff, which is usually inhaled through

the nose; and moist snuff, which is placed between the

cheek and gum.

Jackie Henderson, supervisor of the purchasing of
merchandise at the W&L Bookstore, says that normally
five to six cans of snuff are bought each day, but the
numbers increase during exam periods

Most people use smokeless tobacco because it allows
them to get the benefits of nicotine without having to
light up a cigarette. Studies have shown that the nico

tine leyc

Jon Missert, a sophomore, says that he “dips”
because it tastes good, helps him stay awake, and helps
him relax

Missert said that although the use of smokeless tobac-
co might be offensive to some people, it’s better than
smoking because the fumes from cigarettes do ‘da

mage to others a

 

 

 

Just a pinch between the cheek and gums ...

ia the Dloou iphic
tobacco than in the blood of smokers

ell

“

representative who attended the
meeting, said later he was upset with
the vote. ‘I’m disappointed that the
EC did not see the problems we're
having at the University at this
time,”’ he said

Rhinehart added that the effect of
this decision will figure in next year’s
EC elections. ‘“‘With minorities and
women, we'll see some retribution at
the polls,’’ he said.

He added that minorities will try
again next year to get their represen-
tative. ‘‘We’re not going to let this
thing die,”’ he said.

By Steve Sadiler/The Ring-tum Phi

4 wie users of smokeless

 

 

aneeenenteeeen tte
 

 

 

OPINION
Agreed

The decision by the Board of Trustees this weekend not to
sell the University’s investments in companies doing busi-
ness with South Africa was the most realistic move the school
could take. It deserves applause, especially in view of all the
recent pandering to special interest groups across the coun-
try, particularly in higher education.

We do not condone the policy of apartheid. To the contrary,
any system that legitimizes a policy as cruel as discrimina-
tion on the basis of the color of one’s skin — the trustees call it
“unconscionable and intolerable’? — demands immediate
attention and correction. But divestment is not the means to
that desired end.

Divestment proponents hope that a financial withdrawal
from South Africa would quicken an economic collapse of the
most prosperous country on the African continent. In turn,
the turmoil would speed social reforms in South Africa, es-
pecially in view of Afrikaaner reluctance to change their
minority rule under normal circumstances. The divestment
proponents presume, therefore, that a corporate presence in
South Africa is destructive, since it strengthens the economy
of the resource-rich republic that is ruled by a minority.

But to believe that withdrawing $13.5 million — the total
value of Washington and Lee’s investments there — from
American firms that do business in South Africa can have
any effect on the restructuring of that society is pure illusion.
We might as well hope that stopping trade with the Soviet
Union would make that mighty beacon of human injustice to
all people decide to reform its errant ways. No greater
daydream exists.

We agree with the opinion of one trustee who noted that
«the role of an educational institution is to foster a
dialogue...and not to take a doctrinaire position on any
issue.”

Divestment is not a sound economic policy, and we’re glad
the trustees had the courage to steer clear of the many mud-
dling issues thrown in their way.

 

were ‘“‘completely uninformed,”
about the availability of a
University-sponsored forum on
‘*Male Sexuality: Roles and Iden-
tity.”

A statement by Associate Dean

of Students Anne C.P. Schroer in
last week’s Ring-tum Phi was
printed in an inaccurate context.
Schroer said that freshman males

 

 

     
   
 

  
 

  
     
 

  

T CAN FEEL MY
OWN TREMENDOUS
ABALITIES.

MY MIND IS ALERT.
RACING AHEAD SOLVING
PROBLEMS.

Cc

 

\*

 

Something’s fishy in Washington Hall -

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

         

ae

 

There are some things no one likes
to write. Alumni find it upsetting to
read that “their” university has
changed so much. Many current
students claim that changes being in-
stituted are changing the University
too much. And no one — especially
faculty and administration — likes to
get criticized.

That may be why I am reluctant to
write about problems and controver-
sies that have evolved around Presi-
dent John D. Wilson, the Board of
Trustees and the rest of the Universi-
ty. It is difficult, if not impossible, to
please everyone all the time, and for
President Wilson to serve as a con-
duit for communication between the
trustees, faculty and the rest of the
community is a heavy burden to
bear.

But it is a burden Wilson has
chosen as the leader of this institu-
tion, and there certainly exists
reason to question whether he has
been bearing that burden well.

Consider the controversy over the
Student Control Committee and the

* Drug Policy Review Committee.

Last spring, the new guidelines for
the SCC were completed too late for
the Board to study them at their May
meeting. The board, to show ap-
preciation for the work completed by
the committee and to give itself more
time to study the fine points involved
in the thick document, “‘received,’
the new guidelines for study.

By the October meeting, many
questions had arisen over the com-
mittee’s decisions on major and
minor offenses, punishments deli-
neated in the proposal and the appeal

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

History of Ferdinand Marcos cont'd.

Then in 1986 when the New
York Times said my entire
War Pecord was made up, and
pretty amateurishly at that,

Weve scx

Te BUPRRLO NR

process that would be followed under
the new guidelines. Students had
complained about the proposal to
consider ethnic, racial and sexual
slurs ‘‘major’’ offenses, carrying a
possible penalty of expulsion. The
board decided to reconsider the docu-
ment and asked Wilson to recon-
vene the committee and to have them
consider several points of their
recommendation.

In the week following the trustee
meeting, Dean of Students Lewis G.
John told The Phi that the Campus
Life Committee of the Board of
Trustees had decided to take “‘no ac-
tion’’ on the proposal itself. John
maintained that only the faculty
could make changes in the rules, and
no request had been made by the
board for such a change. Wilson did
not try to correct that assessment of
the situation.

But in the weeks following The
Phi’s publication of that article, sev-
eral trustees questioned the interpre-
tation of the meeting and the board’s
charge to the students and faculty as
it had been reported in The Phi, ac-
cording to Dean of Students Lewis G.
John, just as they had raised ques-
tions about the policy during the Oc-
tober meeting. The consensus of the
Campus Life Committee and the
board had actually been for yet
another committee to meet and
review certain sections of the new
disciplinary code. Wilson, who ad-
mitted to some “reluctance to re-
establish the committee,”’ finally
wrote a letter to the chairman of the
Drug Policy committee on January
22, 1986, asking him to reconsider
several specific sections of the pro-
posal because of student and board
complaints. The committee met for
the first time (one administrator

| came here to the attic, back
to the typewriter that made me

a hero, and discovered this
document you are reading right now. €

yn Q
Ca) Oa

Ar

pw

calls it “‘coincidence”) for the first
time the day the trustees arrived for
their meeting last week. They made
it in just the nick of time.

Wilson’s reluctance to trample on
the toes of the faculty and to ask
them to reconsider the proposal is
natural. It is difficult to try to please
both the faculty and the trustees,
especially in those rare circum-
stances when the two are opposed.
When they had discussed the first
document last spring, the debate had
been heated. Most people had
thought that the document’s own lan-
guage calling for a three-year trial
period for the new rules would be suf-
ficient to preclude a quick recon-
sideration of any section of the
policy. But communication wires
were crossed, and no one seemed to
know quite what the board really
wanted accomplished, that is, until
Wilson clarified their position in late
January.

Another similar case exists over
the Student Activities Pavilion issue.
Students have used the facility only
six times this year for parties. Amid
claims that it is too large, too sterile
and too expensive for the fraternities
to have to “‘pay twice” for beer, the
pavilion has sat empty, a $650,000
monument to the erstwhile party
needs of this campus.

It would seem the administration
and the trustees and the students
would reconsider and try to resolve
the many obstacles presented in use
of the pavilion. Even President
Wilson agrees that a solution ought to
be found, but said in an interview
that when he hears the complaints
students raise about the pavilion pro-
blems, he ‘‘pooh-poohs’”” many of
them.

“It seems to me that [the question

“and This one for honesty,
and this one for honor, a

What 2 I deserve even more
medals for war heroism 2”
No, no, | protested, “] have
nough already.” “ Well, okay,

just this one for integrity,” 1 said

Ss
ade Re es
nate WSS) 7

4s Ay -
SOG 2)

\

  
  

  

\u

ry

nd Past

over the fraternity members having
to pay for their beer twice] is really a

moot point with the ABC laws chang- ~
ing,” Wilson said recently. “We pro- »
bably won’t be able to get a license _

next year anyway.”’ That seems of

little consolation to the students pay- «
- ing $25 every year for a metal shack |

in the middle of a pine forest.

But asking an alumnus who spec- «

jalizes in interior decorating of large
buildings to solve the space dilemma
and recommend some sort of parti-
tion seems a good move nearly two
years too late. And when students re-
main reluctant to use the pavilion
because they find the University ad-
ministrator in charge of the facility
difficult — if not antagonistic — to
work with, something more than than
wishing — as does Wilson — that
“reasonable people’ will ‘‘sit down
and work things out’’ seems neces-
sary. Fifteen months have passed
since the pavilion opened, and rea-
sonable people haven’t met yet to
solve these problems.

Meanwhile, students and fraterni-
ties continue to use Zollman’s Pavi-

lion and to drive back to Lexington ~

drunk. Two accidents © involving
students returning from a_ party
Saturday left one freshman with a
broken arm and several others
shaken up. “Reasonable people”

haven’t met yet, President Wilson. I *

doubt they will unless they are prodd-
ed to by forces from “‘higher up.”’
Strong leadership will mean a
strong school, and on the issues of the
SCC rules and the pavilion, leader-
ship has been lacking. Communica-

tion has been flawed. Anger has ‘

flared, creating resentment and giv-
ing way to conspiracy theories about

‘Wilson’s”““real” intentions. Surely

there is room for improvement.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(+ AM EXWILARATED.
EXCITED BY INFINITE
POSSIBILITIES.
TRULY,

 

     
     
  

f

 

 

 

  
     
   

NoT To MENTION
TALENTED. 'MAGINATIVE.
CONFIDENT.

YOWER AL PRESS S1VE.

-™
f

 

!

mB ONV65 THe Burearv NRL!

   

 

  

1D aa

 

 

{ 4np powerfu. 1M)
IN CONTROL. NOT
DEPENDENT ON ANYBODY

OR ANYTHING.

NEWS STAFF

Managing Editor .......
Sports Editor..........
News Editor...........

EDITORIAL PAGE

BUSINESS STAFF

is otherwise independent.

definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

   
  
   
    
  
 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

BERCNCS THING oo cc cic cdccedvevcscdccees
BE foi iate oie wc choke ree teteeieee.

ada eacceced staves sssscuts cee eee
SC LEAG Vic bie eece Paul Foutch

Cresiverecyrisherceesiac Reade Williams
pe cseeuueueekiweaesaniaes Mike Stachura
shevis Like Mi ieress bis Jason Lisi
cap as Go up OwevUehees es ceae dl Steve Sadler
perch ieee a Matt Horridge
uv vavewa yee honh eine 0.5 Ne
peeueceececbeteeresantiae David Emrich

Photography Editor. ..........6scceeeeeees
Chief Copy Editor .....:scceeceseccevveves
Entertainment Editor, ................5055
Assistant Sports Editor .............00e00s

Editorial Page Editor ..........-..:-eseees
Assistant Editerial Page Editor............
Cartooniat. oc ccsccccccccevcscsssvcccveres

  

Ledaaeees Tene dibs bear erielal Jeff Kimbell
LA ia Hank Greenberg
SV ebeeekivebas John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,

Business Manager ........sseercereeeeeees
Advertising Manager .........0sseseeeeees
Advertising Salesmen, ...........0seeeeees
Circulation Manager ..........ccseceeeeeeeeeeereeseeeeeeereeaneees Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court

 
  
 

EXCEPTING, PERHAPS,
THESE LIPTLE LINES OF
WHITE POWDER.

 

Jim Strader

... Marie Kothman
Unbisiayer vet es Chris Bowring

Jay Reville, Greg Turley,

 

 

Readers voice disagreements with Phi, EC

To the editors:

On Feb. 6 we read the editorial ‘Barriers’ and
we were thoroughly disgusted. We found offen-
sive remarks made about the meeting in which
the ethnic Minority Ad Hoc Committee met with
the Executive Committee. In that editorial The
Phi stated that “the idea of a group of black
students going to Great White Father behind the
Horseshoe and begging for a handout is offensive
and outmoded.” We find this statement com-
pletely erroneous and tasteless. Furthermore, it
basically shows the editors’ ignorance concern-
ing problems that ethnic minorities face on this
campus. We, the ethnic minorities, were not a
group of “blacks” as was stated by The Phi in its
editorial, and if the editors had bothered to read
the article on the front page, they would have
realized that fact. We were a group of blacks,
browns, and yellows who believe that the Univer-
sity could better be served by an ad hoc minority
member as a safety precaution against misun-
derstandings arising from cultural differences.
Moreover, probably the most offensive remarks
had to do with the ‘‘Great White Father” and the
“begging for a handout,” statements which, in
our opinion, were completely out of line and
showed insensitivity toward the plight of ethnic
minority students. If The Phi really believes
“racism exists on campus” and is “inexcus-
able,” how could it print remarks that display a
tint of racism?

Many whites frequently experience the need to
make negative comments about blacks and other
minorities. The persons of color presenting the
petition for an ethnic minority ad hoc committee
member did so in a well-organized, civilized
manner. In and of itself, this approach did not
warrant criticism. Therefore, the editorial
writers sought another means of sensationalism
by emphasizing the opposite stereotype of blacks
— that of our being child-like and subservient.

On top of that the accusation made against As-
sociate Dean of Students Anece F. McCloud
showed a deep lack of respect for an administra-
tor. She in no way made “persistent corrections
... of the EC President’s handling of motions.”
Those were made by other members of the au-
dience and she, throughout never spoke without
acknowledgment from the president. In our
estimation, by attributing such rudeness to her,
the editorial writers sought to strengthen their
assertion that the minority students were being
treated like, and were consequently acting like,
children.

The main problem we have had with The Phi
and certain EC members is the fact that many
have gone out of their way to find something
negative in anything we've said or done. They
have made suggestions that if we had a represen-
tative, incentive to seek the seat via elections
would be lacking. This is preposterous. If you
have the choice of being able to vote or not being
able to do so, which would you choose? More-
over, the EC would appoint this member on a

yearly basis. Therefore, we would assume they’

would pick this representative after elections.

Finally, the editorial twisted our statement
about the “‘perception of fairness’’ into in-
sinuating that we stated the SCC is a group of
racists. In fact, we never stated this, and if
anything we wanted the non-voting representa-
tive to help the SCC for informational purposes,
as an adviser, to communicate cultural nuances
that SCC members might not be able to see or
understand. Within the past year there were two
cases in which this representative could have
made a dramatic impact on the SCC’s decision.
The outcome of those trials are part of our belief
in the perception of fairness being very impor-
tant.

The aforementioned trials sent a clear mes-
sage to us that this representative would be in
the best interest of the University. However, just
prior to our writing this letter the minority ad
hoc representative was voted down by the EC.
This is only a minor setback! We are in the right
and now the ball is in the EC’s court. They must
now come up with the solutions to the minority
problem. It is very easy to dismiss a proposal
and find reasons to back up that decision, but it is
hard to put together a proposal that will solve the
problem.

William Rhinehart
Class of 1986

Terri Ann Moore
Law Class of 1988
Mike Watson
Class of 1989

Students uphold rebel flag

To the editors:

We take exception to Everett Hamilton’s
remarks on the Confederate flag as a ‘‘symbol of
hate.”’ Arguing about this since freshman year
has done us no good, Everett, but calm reason
merits another try.

For some, the flag may be the banner of rebel-
lion and hatred for the North and blacks. For
others it is not. History reminds us that “the
Southern states could not be said to be waging a
war of rebellion. For the constitution which
bound the states together distinctly acknowledg-
ed that for all purposes, except for such matters
as the customs and the post office and external
relations, the States were separate sovereign-
ties’ (L.Q.C. Lamar, a speech in Atlanta, Ga.,
April 14, 1864). A principle of self-determination
was at stake, and for that many Confederates
fought.

Slavery was a hateful institution, yet to
denigrate a rich Southern heritage for that alone
is myopic in the extreme. As a Southerner, Ever-
ett, take justified pride in a region that produced
Travis, Lamar, Washington and Lee. The flag
that flew over their states symbolized unique cul-
tural traditions, democratic government and
much more than the subjugation of a race.

Slave auctions and cotton bales are not wie on-
ly hallmarks of the Confederacy, yet its shame is
obviously more important to some than its pride.
All of us have been more charitable to Old Glory
than the Stars and Bars, even though true social
justice has not been acheived on either side ot the
Potomac. Flags do not communicate ideas, their
bearers do. Quarrel with the American racist no
matter what he displays. The Confederate flag is
flown by many a reasonable man who would re-
sent association with the plantation overseer.

In short, Everett, your Lynyrd Skynyrd con-
ception of the South may not accurately reflect
all students’ racial beliefs — some still take
pride in the South for higher reasons. General
Lee did.

Bruce Rothenberger
Jonathan Miles
Class of 1987

Library thefts increase

To the editors:

During January there was an unusual number
of reported thefts from carrels in the University
Library. Several students have asked me what
can be done. The first thing a person can do is be
sure to report any missing item to the staff mem-
ber at the Circulation Desk. Those reports are all
referred to campus security.

The library is open to the general public. If
anyone notices suspicious behavior in the stacks,
use the stack phone to call the Circulation Desk.
The staff member there will notify campus se-
curity.

If students help us in these ways, I believe we
can make the library less vulnerable to thefts.

Barbara Brown
University Librarian

Bicentennial coming up

To the editors:

With the advent of the bicentennial of the
United States Constitution fast approaching in
1987, I believe Washington and Lee should ex-
amine ways in which we could celebrate this his-
toric event. Student ideas are vital to any such
process, and it is with this in mind that I call
upon the student body of W&L to indicate what it
would be interested in doing toward this end. As
George Washington was president of the Contin-
ental Congress that wrote the document, I think
W&L has a special part to play. It wouldn’t do for
a committee appointed by the faculty to be the
inspiration for a commemoration of the Constitu-
tion. To be successful, the students should sug-
gest things to do. After all, it would be those
same students who would benefit from any cele-
bration. I’m sure that the student body would be
more inclined to support a project if they knew
they were to play an integral part in executing it.

Peter Bennorth
Class of 1987

¥

¥

‘

s

>

-

=

 

<

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

 

W&L seeks
two grants

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

In an effort to continue develop-
ment of the Washington and Lee cur-
riculum, administrators are prepar-
ing proposals designed to obtain ma-
jor grants in two areas of study, ac-
cording to Dean of the College John
W. Elrod.

The grants being sought are from
the Pew Foundation of Philadelphia
and would be used to strengthen the
foreign language program and re-
equip the science laboratories,
according to Elrod.

The decision to apply for the two
available grants follows a study of
several areas of the curriculum that
was undertaken in various stages
since last spring. Four committees,
including the one studying the
foreign languages, presented reports
to Elrod last week.

The others were committees study-
ing the establishment of a Russian
studies program, further develop-
ment of the ‘‘Capstone’’ program of
advanced learning, and enhance-
ment of the fine arts.

Elrod said it was not feasible to
continue with all of the programs at
this time, but added that none of the
studies has been discontinued.

W&L was among 30 liberal arts col-
leges invited by the Pew Foundation
to apply for the grant Elrod said
would be used for the language pro-
gram.

Included in this technology, Elrod
said, is the integration of computers
in language instruction through the
addition to the lab of microcompu-
ters and various software programs.

“The Romance language depart-
ment had already begun computer-
assisted instruction on a small scale,
using programs developed by Profes-
sors Russell C. Knudson and Kathy
Jo Koberstein.

Knudson chaired the committee
that evaluated the development of
these programs at W&L and has been
asked to continue studying the issue
with Professors H. Laurent Boetsch
and Robert B. Youngblood.

Youngblood said the competition
for the grant is among schools of
W&L’s stature that range from New
England to North Carolina. Of the 30
schools applying, Youngblood said 15
will receive grants.

“We’re in very good company,”
Youngblood said. ‘‘We think we have
a very good chance.”

Among the changes he hopes can
be brought about if the grant is
awarded, Youngblood listed the use
of computers for certain rote chores
of language training, like vocabulary
drills

A program of special interest to
Youngblood is the use of computers
for writing term papers. He said this
would assist students in his literature
seminars at the advanced level.

The other grant proposal the
University is submitting, also to the
Pew Foundation, is to fund the the
purchase of science equipment that
has become out-of-date over the
years, Elrod said.

Elrod explained that science
laboratory equipment was neglected
at W&L when it was financially nec-
essary to choose between improving
equipment and adding members to
the faculty.

The, study of the science depart-
ment problems began last summer,
Elrod said, and is continuing under
the direction of geology Professor
Edgar W. Spencer.

Spencer said the grant would allow
W&L to take a leading position in the
sciences among schools of its size.
“We’re hoping to have facilities at
Washington and Lee that you
wouldn’t find at most liberal arts
schools,” Spencer said. °

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

David Lewis (left) talks with freshman Paul Eyerly in Graham-Lees Dormitory

David Lewis: milk, not beer

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

Dormitory counselor David D. Lewis says he’s ‘‘never
had a sip of alcohol’’ and has never smoked in his life.

A typical student? Hardly. But that doesn’t bother
Lewis, a senior from Richmond.

“In high school, I kind of got the rap that I was the only
guy who drank milk instead of beer, and I thought it was
cool to be different,’’ he said last week.

Many people around campus agree that he is different.
Athletic Director William D. McHenry, for example, de-
scribed Lewis as ‘‘one of the neatest kids I’ve ever known
at W&L.” i

Lewis says he chose Washington and Lee because he
recognized that a small school would have more opportu-
nities for involvement — opportunities he seems to have
made the most of. He is an assistant head dormitory
counselor, president of W&L’s chapter of Omicron Delta
Kappa, president of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes,
a captain of the varsity swimming and the varsity water
polo teams and a member of Kappa Sigma social frater-
nity.

A biology major, Lewis places consistently on the
dean’s list and was inducted into Alpha Epsilon Delta, a
pre-medicai honor society.

Of all his activities, Lewis said FCA is his favorite,
“because it’s different from everything else.” But he
worries that students stereotype those who participate in

FCA. ‘‘Here, some people go, ‘Oh, FCA — what are you —
religious?’ and it’s really not like that.’

Yet Lewis does not hesitate to say how important his
faith is to him, contending that it affects everything he
does. ‘I’m always asking, ‘Am I doing what is right for
me?’ ”hesaid.

Corky Mauzy, a senior who works with Lewis as vice
president of FCA and is also a dorm counselor said:
“‘He’s always in a good mood... He’s a cheerful person
and that tends to rub off on people.”’

“‘He’s real easy to work with — maybe too easy,
because he tends to take over and do it,” he added.

Lewis admitted he sometimes has a difficult time
delegating responsibilities. ‘‘I kind of like to do
everything myself because | like to do it right,”’ he said.

The high standards Lewis sets for himself are not
always popular with others. Richard Grace, a freshman
on his hail, said that, “right now, a lot of freshmen and
myself might not agree with his strict rules, but, later on,
I guess we'll realize that he’s just doing his job.”’

Lewis said he is secure with the way he handles his
responsibilities. He said he’s ‘‘very much an optimist,”’
and that a “total positive attitude makes all the dif-
ference.”’

He is now in the process of applying to various medical
schools.

“T don’t hope that my future is going to go right,” he

said. “‘I know if I keep going and doing the things I’m do-
ing, everything will fall into place.”’

SAC to study idea of deferred Rush

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Would deferring fraternity Rush
until after Christmas break be bene-
ficial for Washington and Lee frater-
nities and for the University as a
whole? There are pros and cons on
both sides of the question, and a
study underway by the Student Af-
fairs Committee is trying to sort
them out.

The study will consist of a survey of
all W&L students and will include in-
formation from schools similar to
W&L about their experiences with
different forms of Rush.

Some people on campus already
have their minds made up, though.

Law Professor Andrew McThenia,
for instance, thinks a deferred Rush
would ‘‘benefit the ideal of frater-
nities’ by giving the houses more
time to pick the right kind of people
for their house.

McThenia, a W&L alumnus, said
that as a member of the coeducation
Steering Committee last year he re-
commended that the committee push
for a deferred Rush.

IFC President Jaimie Hayne, on

the other hand, fears that deferred
Rush would create 12 weeks of infor-
mal Rush during the fall semester,
draining the houses financially and
creating tension between them.

“Fraternities here are unique in
their friendliness and we don’t want
to destroy that,” said Hayne.

The IFC has recommended against
deferring Rush in a report to the
SAC.

McThenia disagrees. ‘‘A substan-
tial number of people don’t want to
belong to the fraternity system, and
some — i.e., women — can’t belong,”
McThenia said.

“Those who don’t participate in
Rush are treated as second-class
citizens.”” He called that a ‘‘very
strong message, and the wrong one,”
to be sending freshmen early in the
year.

Delayed Rush would give freshmen
a chance to build a sense of com-
munity before dividing between fra-
ternity members and independents,
according to McThenia.

The SAC’s survey, and its recom-
mendation on a deferred Rush pro-
gram, should be done sometime near
the end of the term.

Several Virginia schools have suc-
cessful delayed Rush programs.

pden-Sydney College has for-
mal Rush during November, with
bids given out in January. After two
weeks of ‘‘no contact” between fra-
ternities and freshmen at the begin-
ning of the term, informal contact is
allowed until Rush begins.

“Upperclass fraternity members
like the system because they like
more time to look at freshmen,’’ said
Jamie Curry, IFC president in Farm-
ville. ‘Everyone is confortable with
the system.”

Drew Lewis, dean of students at
Hampden-Sydney, is also pleased
with the system. Its big advantage,
he said, is that it ‘has helped us
tremendously develop a residence
life program.” Freshman participate
in school activities, such as intra-
mural sports as a class rather than
as pledges.

“It’s made it easier for freshmen
not in fraternities not to feel left out,”’
Lewis said.

Rush at Hampden-Sydney was
moved to January about 10 years
ago, Lewis said, and there was initial
hostility from the fraternities. They
feared higher financial costs and
fewer pledges.

Neither of these came about, ac-
cording to Lewis. Fraternity mem-

bership has stayed between 50-and 60
percent. Also, fewer pledges drop out
because of grade problems, he said.

William and Mary College, with 34
percent of its men in 11 fraternities,
has formal Rush in the first week of
the second semester. In addition,
each house is allowed six non-al-
coholic parties, called “‘smokers,”’ in
the first semester, to which all men
are invited. Formal Rush is not dry.

William and Mary IFC President
Ed Grisson says their system gives
freshmen a chance to pick the house
they want to Rush, and had been used
for about 10 years. ‘‘The system will
not change in the future,’ Grisson
said.

The University of Virginia Greek
system, on the other hand, comes
under continual pressure to move its
Rush to the second semester, accord-
ing to Will Callaway, U.Va.’s IFC
president.

U.Va., which has 38 fraternities
and 32 percent of the undergraduate
men belonging to them, has a four-
week Rush that begins the third week
of school, According to Callaway, the
reasons for keeping Rush in the fall
are mainly financial, with the houses
needing the input of pledge dues.

Also, says Callaway, “it takes at

 

 

 

 

JAIMIE HAYNE

least one year to inauguarate
pledges, and we want to give them
the chance to get to know the fourth-
year men.”’

U.Va.’s associate dean for frater-
nities, Terry Appolonia, says the
faculty’s reasons for wanting a defer-
red Rush deal mainly with ‘alcohol
and academic interference.”

The faculty, he says, sees deferred
Rush asa way to give first-year men
a chance to build an academic foun-
dation and avoid heavy drinking ear-
ly in the year. This year formal Rush
was dry for the first time in U.Va.
history.

 

STU may
expand

to utilities

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Student Telephone Union is
now considering expanding its guar-
antees of students’ phone bills to in
clude utilities, according to STU
Chairman Tom O’Brien.

If there is sufficient interest, STU
will add a program for student custo-
mers of Virginia Electric and Power
Co. for the 1986-87 academic year.

O’Brien said Vepeo currently
charges a $150 deposit for full elec-
tricity dwellings and $75 for dwel-
lings that get some of their power
from gas. Under the STU plan, stu:
dents who pay a $10 membership fee
will have their deposits waived and
have a limited liability of $200
— meaning STU will cover up to $200
of a student’s delinquent bill without
the student having his electricity
turned off.

O’Brien said he will distribute a
questionnaire in the spring to deter-
mine interest in the program. He said
he will go ahead with the program if
about 500 students express interest.
O’Brien expects that that many stu-
dents will want to join.

“A lot of girl sophomores will be
living outside of University housing
next year,” he said.

O’Brien said there is a successful
utility assistance program at James
Madison University and he thinks
one can work at Washington and Lee
even though it is a much smaller
school.

Last year, STU tried a deposit pro-
gram for cable television that was
unsuccessful. O’Brien said students
opted to just pay the small amount of
the cable deposit.

Phi Beta Kappa
selects 22

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

 

Twenty-one undergraduates and
one 1985 graduate have been elected
into Washington and Lee’s chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa.

Psychology Professor David G.
Elmes, W&L’s chapter president,
said the Executive Committee of the
chapter, made up of the faculty of-
ficers, examined the transcripts of
potential members before opening
the vote up to the general member-
ship, which includes students chosen
last year and faculty members.

The 17 seniors selected are: Chris

Alevizatos, Larry Anker, Erich
Anspach, Hugh Black, Barry
Funkhouser, Pat Hayden, Lester

Johnson, David Kelly, Trey Kinder,
Steve Losquadro, Mike McAlevey,
Frank McQuillen, Ron Moody,
Nelson Patterson, Gerald Shepherd,
Bart Smith and Chris Wilson.

The juniors are James Barker,
Thomas Boyd, Gilbert Ladd and Jeff
Mandak.

The 1985 graduate selected is
Banks Chamberlain. Elmes said that
Chamberlain last year must have
had excellent winter and spring
terms.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Freshman injured in highway accident with tractor-trailer

 

 

Staff Reports

 

A freshman was injured Sunday evening in an auto
accident when her car was rear-ended by a tractor-
trailer on Interstate 81 at Natural Bridge.

Mary Anne Loftin, 18, of Winston-Salem, N.C. was ad-
mitted to Stonewall Jackson Memorial Hospital in fair
condition following the 6 p.m. accident in which her 1981

- Volkswagen Rabbit was spun around and rolled over in
the median strip of the highway.

According to State Police Sgt. John O'Neil, the driver
of the truck was charged with reckless driving.

Loftin was brought to the hospital by Trooper J.L.
Hines who classified her injuries on his official report
as “class 2’’ on a four-point scale, which indicates
bleeding wounds or visual signs of injury.

O’ Neil said that class 1 is the most serious ‘‘and that’s
when you’re dead.”

A hospital spokeswoman was not able to comment on
Loftin’s injuries or current status, but freshman
Elizabeth S. Miles, who lives next door to Loftin in
Gilliam Dormitory, said Loftin was expected to be
released today.

Visiting students report thefts

Last week’s General Headquarters band was “wild
Kingdom” — just a little too wild for two visiting

women s college students.

Francesca DiRico, a Sweet Briar College sophomore
told Lexington police her purse was stolen from in front
of GHQ at about 11:30 p.m. The $200 purse contained an
airline ticket, American Express and Citgo credit cards
and $100 cash.

Equally unfortunate was Kimberly Baker, a Mary
Baldwin College freshman who left her purse under the
front seat of her locked Chevette, which was parked in
front of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity house.

She told police that when she returned from GHQ, she
discovered someone had broken into her car and stolen
a $55 wallet containing $20 in cash.

Also this week, a student reported damage to his car.

Sophomore Carl McKay’s Chevrolet Blazer suffered
an estimated $2,000 in damage when the windshield and
a side window were knocked out while it was parked in
the campus parking lot known as ‘‘the Corral.”

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton said there are no
leads or suspects in any of the cases.

Applications down for next year

The admissions office has received 2,375 applications
as of Feb. 11, for the 1986-87 school year, down 215 from
the same date last year.

“‘We’re a little behind last year,” said Mrs. Julia M.
Kozak, assistant director of admissions.

“We're still getting a few in every day,’’ added
Kozak. She said that they would still be accepting ap-
plications for a short time.

The applications received have not been entered into
the computer system, so a breakdown of the applica-
tions will not be available until after Washington Holi-
day.

—Sean Bugg

Registration follows break

Registration for spring term will be the first week
after break. Seniors are to register with their advisers
on Monday, juniors on Tuesday, sophomores on Wed-
nesday and freshmen on Thursday. A late registration
fee will be assessed against all students who have not
registered by Friday at 4:30 p.m,

Dorm counselors named

Dormitory Counselors for next year have been
chosen. Junior Jeff Mandak will be head dorm
counselor. Juniors Joe Krastel, Sydney Marthinson,
Jodi Ringland, Bobby Wilson and Paul Youngman will
be assistant head counselors

Reappointed dorm counselors are second-year law
student Dandrea Miller and juniors Terri Amernick,
Greg Barrow, Donna DeBonte, Mat Laws, Shayam

Menon, Corky Parkinson and Chris Talley.

Other appointments are second-year law student
James Humphreys; first-year law students Rebecca
Buehler and Terri Ann Moore; Juniors Tim McMahon,
Steven Pockrass, Brandt Surgner, and Eric Turner;
sophomores Mark Chiappara, Craig Garneau, John
Gorlowski, Jeff Harwood and Joseph Nuckols; and
freshmen Marion Herring and Valerie Pierson.

The alternate counselors are David Hellberg,
Michael Longshore, Mark Moore and Robert Ryan; and
freshmen Jennifer Bray, Marie Kothman and Julia
Sheppard.

Professor nominated for award

Journalism Professor Ronald H. MacDonald was re-
cently nominated for an award by the National Associa-
tion of Television Program Executives at the NATPE’s
annual convention in New Orleans.

MacDonald was one of three producers from across
the nation nominated in the category of short subjects
The award went to WBIR-TV in Knoxville.

MacDonald was nominated for a documentary he pro-
duced titled ‘‘Scenic Overlooks.’’ The documentary was
an in-depth portrait ofpoints of interest along the Blue
Ridge Parkway. The documentary was -produced by
WDBJ-TV in Roanoke in conjunction with the 50th an-
niversary of the parkway.

MacDonald joined the Washington and Lee faculty in
1969 after a long career in broadcast journalism :

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

Divest

( Continued from Page I

Hough chaired the three-member
committee the board formed in May

isin A ny
Name that house :

Hall to be named

van, a Baptist minister from Phila-
delphia. The one non-subscribing
firm ‘‘maintains in South Africa only
a small office of sales represen-
tatives from the United States,” the
statement said.

The Board decision was opposed by

 

 

 

in response to a petition signed by a
group of 342 students, faculty and
staff members that called itself the
Washington and Lee Campaign
Against Apartheid.

The trustees’ statement said that
on Dec. 31, 18 percent — $13.5 million
— of the University’s $74 million port-
folio was invested in American cor-
porations with interests in South
Africa.

Of the 27 companies, all but one
have agreed to abide by the Sullivan
Principles, a set of racially pro-
gressive employment practices
designed by the Rev. Leon H. Sulli-

a ee ee eee re em eee NCEE LNENN mee

In other action, the board voted to
raise tuition for next year by 7 per-

Board

O Continued from Page 1

chaired by Wilson and also includes
Rector James M. Ballengee and the
chairmen of the board’s six other
committees.

Wilson said Student Body Presi-
dent John B. Lewis was asked about
the Girard case at Friday’s Campus
Life Committee meeting. Lewis also
sat in on the full session of the board
Saturday.

Lewis reported at Monday’s Stu-
dent Body Executive Committee
meeting that many trustees had ask-
ed ‘“‘basically what the hell was going
on’’ with the Honor System, and ad-
ded without elaboration that he had
done his best to tell them.

 

W&L’s only South African student,

junior Mierwhaan Manan of Cape

Town, who said the South African
government uses ‘‘American money
to exploit blacks.”’

Since April, students across the na-

tion have organized rallies, marches
and sit-ins to protest college _ in-
vestments in South Africa-related
firms. During a University of Virgin-
ia Board of Visitors meeting last
month, for example, students built
shanties at the foot of the Rotunda to
symbolize the South African slums.
One lean-to carried the slogan
“Death or Divestment.”’

cent to $7,600 from this year’s $7,100.
Inflation for the last year has been
between 3 and 4 percent.

In addition, the board was updated
on the search for a replacement for
retiring Commerce School Dean Ed-
ward C. Atwood Jr.

Wilson said the original list of 120
candidates for the position has been
narrowed to between 10 and 15 final-
ists. The list includes both members
of the W&L faculty and outside ap-
plicants, according to Wilson.

The board also approved a change
to its by-laws shortening the term for
a trustee to five from six years, ‘‘giv-
ing more people an opportunity to
serve on the board,’’ Wilson said. The
change does not affect the tenure of
current trustees.

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Alpha Phi Omega, a national
service fraternity and the nation’s
largest Greek organization, will
be holding an organizational
meeting in Room 109 of the Wash-
ington and Lee Student Center on
Wednesday, Feb. 26, at 7 p.m.

The deadline for applications
for a six-week summer school pro-
gram at Oxford University in
England is March 1. The program

 

CLASSIFIEDS

is run by a group of universities in
Virginia, of which Washington
and Lee is one. Information and
applications are available in Dean
Simpson’s office, Washington
Hall.

Any student wishing to spend
one semester or an entire year at
The School of African and Orien-
tal Studies of the University of
London, England, please see Pro-
fessor Roger Jeans or Professor
Porter in the department of his-
tory before the April vacation.

 

 

Valley True Value Hardware

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

  

 

 
  
  

  
  

  

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

 

soon as possible.

Complete selection of After-Six formal wear,
cummerbunds and accessories in stock

Winter Sale Continues

With More Mark-Downs

CHOICE

 

 

Rent your Black Shawl Tuxedo

from the Tux Corner
at University Cleaners

$35.00 Complete plus shoes

Order before Monday, March 1, 1986

n-Bennis
Special rates for
_ Fancy Dress Rentals

Try to place your orders as

 

for ex-president

The residence hall under con-
struction on Nelson and Washing-
ton Streets will be named for Dr.
Francis P. Gaines, president of
Washington and Lee from 1930 to
1959. The Board of Trustees ap-
proved the naming of the hall for
Gaines during its recent winter
meeting.

“Dr. Gaines guided the Univer-
sity through periods of growth and
prosperity, and times of war and
controversy,’’ said President
John D. Wilson. “‘It is fitting and
appropriate that the trustees have
chosen to honor Dr. Gaines by giv-
ing his name to this major new
building.’

Gaines, who died on the last day
of 1963 at his home in Lexington
at the age of 71, became president
while the country was in the grips
of the Great Depression. At a time
when many colleges and universi-
ties were fighting to survive, W&L

 

 

 

 

An artist’s conception of the planned Gaines Residence Hall

continued to grow under Gaines’
hand.

A native of South Carolina,
Gaines received degrees from
Richmond College (now Universi-
ty), the University of Chicago,
Duke University and Columbia

 

 

  

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

The Chavis House, where MSA members live

University. He taught English at
Mississippi State and served as
president of Wake Forest College
before becoming president of
W&L at age 38.

Gaines Residence Hall, schedul-
ed for occupancy in September

House renamed for first black student

The Board of Trustees voted
last weekend to rename the house
at 10 Lee Ave. in Lexington after
John Chavis, the first black to at-
tend W&L. The house, which is
owned by the University, current-
ly houses members of the Minori-
ty Student Association and serves
as the MSA Cultural Center.

A widely respected teacher and
minister in the Presbyterian
Church, Chavis attended Liberty
Hall Academy in 1795 after study-

_ Students for minority affairs.

Marcellus Wright Cox and Smith Architects

1987, will house 249 students. A
corner gate house, a principal ar-
chitectural feature of the $8.1
million building, will provide a
large multi-purpose lounge area
to be used for lectures, meetings
and musical programs.

ing at Princeton College in New
Jersey. He later moved to North
Carolina, where he opened sever-
al schools and continued preach-
ing and writing until his death in
1838.

“‘We are very pleased with the
trustees’ decision to name the
house after Mr. Chavis,” said
Anece McCloud, associate dean of

The house will now be known as
the ‘‘Chavis House.”’

 

 

 

SERVIGTAR.

23S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Herdware
463-2242

 

an
—=

Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

 

 

 

   

~ Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your
head for
my business.

  
 

 

STUDENT ACCOUNT

      
 
     

= S. Jefferson St.
43538.
Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to iam

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine@Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

“ve suit the occasion”

gregory's

formal wear

See Our University Representative
About Our Low Prices and Free Delivery

Mr. Weston Newton

    
 
      

 
    
      
    
   
    
  
  

 
  
 
 
 

 
  

 
  
 
   
 
 

174 Graham-—Lees
463-9472

    
 
7

SPORTS
Cagers win two;
|ODAC race close

 

® By DAVIDEMRICH

« Assistant Sports Editor

 

4

, After stumbling over the weekend
against archrival Roanoke, the
* Washington and Lee basketball

|. Generals finished the week fast with

———_

wins over Old Dominion Athletic Con-
" ference foe Eastern Mennonite and
non-conference opponent Emory.
The week’s events all point to
" tomorrow night's contest in Mary-
\ ville, where the Generals will go look-
_ ing for a seeded berth in the con-
ference tournament. A win against
* Maryville, who fell to W&L 67-62 on
, Jan, 14, would raise the Generals’
conference mark to 8-6, virtually en-
* suring a finish among the con-
, ference’s top four teams for W&L.
The top four teams in the ODAC are
* awarded the home-court advantage
, for the first round of the conference
tournament, which is set to begin on
* Tuesday.

‘At the present time, according to
, ODAC and W&L Sports Information

Director Mark Mandel, all the teams

' — with the exceptions of conference-
, leader Emory and Henry and cellar-
= dweller Bridgewater — are so close

* that it is impossible to tell which

, teams will finish in the top four.

Emory and Henry
: Roanoke

a Lynchburg

Washington and Lee
: Eastern Mennonite
Maryville
Hampden-Sydney
Bridgewater

~

~~

~

Emory and Henry.

 

_ In the event of a tie in the stand-
ings, the teams that are tied are
awarded points based on the strength
of the opponent — for. their con-
ference wins. The teams are then

ranked by the amount of points they
have.

Back on the hardwood, the
Generals avenged an early season
61-58 loss to Emory in a resounding
manner, thumping the Eagles, 73-37,
in the Warner Center last night.

Tuesday, the Generals were forced
to go into overtime to defeat the
Royals of Eastern Mennonite after
being ahead by as many as 10 points
in the first half. The Generals got the
points when they needed them in the
must-win situation, defeating the
Royals 83-81 in the Warner Center.

W&L got the overtime win when
Steve Sklenar took a bounce pass
from Fred Bissinger, wheeled into
the lane and softly dropped in the
gamewinner.

Last Saturday, the Generals drop-
ped a tough conference road game to

Roanoke, 59-56. W&L led most of the .

way and held the lead at halftime by
virtue of a nine-and-a-half minute
Maroon dry spell.

Jeff Harralson was the leading
scorer for W&L with 17.

| ODAC STANDINGS

9-3
7-5
7-6
7-6
7-7
6-6
6-7
1-11

Thursday : Roanoke at Lynchburg.

Friday: Washington and Lee at Maryville,
Bridgewater at Emory and Henry.

Saturday: Bridgewater at Maryville, Roanoke at

 

 

 

‘ By LEIF UELAND
, Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s

+ Swim team finished off their dual-
meet season Saturday with a decisive

" vietory over William and Mary,

+ 70-36. The team ends the season with

, at record and now begins prepara-
tions for the Tri-State Championships

that will be held at W&L on February
20-22.

As has been characteristic of the
* Generals’ victories, the team struck
quickly, gaining an early lead from
which their opponents could not reco-
* ver. '

*

«

* “Once again, we got off to a quick
start. They were a team who didn’t
think they could beat us and we never
* opened the door for them,” com-
. mented head coach Page Remillard.

Remillard pointed out that the
meet was an important indicator for
the team as they approach the Cham-
. pionships.
“The challenge was to try to get

back to those times that they had
before Christmas...and we were able
to do that almost to the man. And that
is where you want to be right before
the big events,’’ Remillard said.

Key performers this past week in-
clude senior Chris Hope who Remil-
lard said is advancing by great
strides. Remillard also praised both
captains, senior David Lewis, whose
times are already down to those
when shaved and tapered and Tim
Stanford, whose battle with the flu
now appears to be completely over,
allowing for what should be an
outstanding showing by Stanford in
the Tri-State Championships.

While the long period of extensive
training is now only a memory for the
swimmers, an equally crucial aspect
of their season, the taper, is now
underway. During the taper, the

‘ swimmers train at shorter distances,

though with greater intensity.

As training during the taper is
similar to a race, the swimmers now
have a greater awareness of where
they are in their training. Because
swimmers now know immediately if

their training is on schedule or not,
the taper can be a frustrating ordeal
for tde swimmer.

“‘The taper is as much mental as it
is physical,” stated Remillard.

Though the Generals appear to be
currently hitting their stride, they
will be up against stiff competition in
the meet. Fairmont State, who won
the title last year over W&L by 150
points, again looks to be the favorite
and the Generals are in no way en-
sured the second-place finish they
took last year.

“I think they [Fairmont State] are
going to have to miss their taper. And
we will have to hit ours. It really
comes down to what percentage of
your team hits their taper,’’ Remil-
lard said.

In response to queries as to the
possiblity of additional qualifiers, for
national championships, Remillard
said that the team has learned not to
look too far ahead as they did against
Shepherd. But he added, ‘‘We hope to
have additional qualifiers and there
certainly is the possibility, the rest is
up to the swimmers.”

 

Ea

 

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

Steve Sklenar goes up in traffic against Roanoke

‘Swimmers drown Tribe, prepare for Tri-States

 

MOOSE HERRING

.Grapplers split tri-meet, head to regional with optimism

‘

 

* By CHARLES T. GAY
» Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s wrestling

" squad ended its dual season by split-

* ting a pair of matches at Washington

_ and Jefferson last Saturday. The

split closes the W&L season mark at

* 9-2. The Generals punished Gannon,

. 35-13, but dropped a heartbreaker to
the hosts, W&J, 20-19.

The Generals experienced little dif-

» ficulty in besting Gannon. Co-cap-

tains Brian Lifsted and Larry Anker

‘
.
+

aaa

+ @By Appointment 463-9588
‘ i Robins Peggy «Marie

RS) RE ARS) RD OE) ES AEE) RC ARE RUE ORR

ee er

Marie's Hain Sylers

Only Hairstylist to accept the Colonnade Card

(142), Mark Robertson (158), Win
Phillips (167), Rich Redfoot (177) and
Dan Fales (heavyweight) all emerg-
ed from their bouts victorious.
Phillips won by fall and Steve Castle
got things going with a forfeit win at
118 pounds.

The only usual starter who had
trouble was George Loupassi, who
lost but redeemed himself against
the host Presidents.

W&L’s performance against W&J
was just shy of the mark. The
Generals lost despite taking five of

0)<—-Poert

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 21450

 

Mw

: 28 S. Main Street

Tilson Real Estate

: 703/463-3191
®

P.O. Box 1156

 

‘ Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

= Students under 21
' Must Have

prior Insurance
Approval

RFD7, Box 149,

 

 

Rt. 60 East

103-463-1670

Emergency
103-377-6331

Brian and Doris
Fredricksen

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

the 10 bouts with the Presidents.
Anker, Robertson, Redfoot and Lou-
passi won by decision and Castle won
by default.

The W&L grapplers now head to
the Eastern regional, set for this
weekend at Trenton State in New
Jersey. Head Coach Gary Franke
was cautiously optimistic about the
Generals’ chances at the regionals.

“‘We’re looking forward to going up
there and qualifying some Gen-
erals,’”’ said the Generals’ mentor
whose W&L teams have piled up a
44-8-1 record over the last four

     
 

U.S. 1IN.

EAST LEX

463-3614

seasons.

He admitted however, “that it’s
hard to say just how we’ll do,’’ he
said. “I hope we’re prepared enough
over the season — mentally, as well
as physically.”

Franke also indicated that Anker,
who has wrestled all season at 142
pounds, will cut weight to 134 for the
regional to give the senior a better
chance at qualifying for national
championships

But Franke also added: ‘‘We have
an outstanding opportunity to qualify
all around.”

  

Open Until Midnight

tt tt i el

 

 

George’s Hairstylist

x Great New Talent x
We Welcome
Mary Burgdorf

George's — Elegance in the Old Tradition

Since 1963

>)

now has

 

136 Varner Lane

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

All-star hype

...1 think we need more post-
season or in-season all-star (well,
more or less all-star) games.
They’re so much fun (yeah, right),
**** and what with the success of the
NBA and NHL mid-season classics
‘ (and let us not forget their progeny,
By Mike such as the Slam Dunk contest and
Stachura the NBA Old-Timers Classic) the

way things are going, the all-star
se is going to be the father of more spin-offs than ‘‘All in the Fami-
y.”

Let me see: The possibilities for alternative, mixed-bag, mean-
ingless, mega-buck contests just begin to flow now that they’ve let has-
beens ... oh, excuse me, greats of the game ... into all-star
games/shows.

Oh sure, they're fun, these meaningless games. But that was when
there were only four games (one for baseball, one for basketball, one
for football and one for hockey). But things have gotten out of hand.
That NBA old-timers game Saturday night was a mite silly. And there
were more than a few times I wondered if the old birds were going to
have heart attacks. But other than that trivial concern, the games
themselves are plain ugly. I mean, if I wanted to remember the good
old days of Hondo Havlicek, I’ll call CBS, ask them for some tapes and
rent a VCR. Watching Havlicek — in his late 40s — run up and down
the court is like, well, watching somebody in his late 40s run up and
down the court,

Very little can be done to improve my image of these legends of the
game. But when I see them gathered as s bunch of balding, paunchy,
old men, I’m thinking, ‘‘Hell, I could dribble circles around that old
geezer...Oh, that’s Bob Cousy ... You mean that old guy was a star at
one time?”

Even though it may have been a good idea at one time, as a one-time
event, it ought to have dawned on the clowns who promote these cir-
cuses that it just isn’t going to be all that exciting. Look what they did
at the first one of these ‘I Remember When’ games, baseball’s
Crackerjack Classic. They played it on a football field and slid in the
fences so we suckers in the adoring public could ooh and ahh when
Hammerin’ Hank Aaron displayed that old form.

Yet, the fun with these All-Star shows doesn’t stop there. We have to
have a Slam Dunk contest, too. And a Home Run contest. How about
an All-Star sneaker contest? Can you see it? Magic Johnson, Michael
Jordan and the entire Boston Celtics team being judged by an expert
panel including Gloria Vanderbilt, Halston and, oh, why not, Jack
Nicholson.

On top of these in-season or post-season jokes, we also have your out-
of-season clashes of the titans or near-titans. Come again? Oh, yeah.
Haven’t you heard of the Pizza Hut All-Star Softball Game? That’s
where baseball’s best play softball in Florida in February. Excite-
ment to no end, I’ll bet.

Understand me, I’ve got no gripe with the charities these games
benefit. But somehow, I don’t think all the money brought in from
these games benefits charities. If the NBA or NFL is so concerned
about improving its public image, why not ask the players to take a
percentage out of their salaries as contributions to a children’s clinic.
The point is we don’t need these games. They’re silly, 99 percent of the
time boring, and always more trouble than they’re worth (and I
haven’t even mentioned the possibility for career-threatening in-
juries).

 

TIME
OUT

 

 

 

 

 

Seems to me these are all team games we’re talking about here. The
__ all-star concept detracts from that. Let’s see if we can remember to
_ talk about players and teams rather than all-stars...

.... Trekking through the slush and muck along the Colonnade, some
quick thoughts. Hoops: If they’re on, they’re better than anyone in the
conference. Wrestling and swimming: Good luck at upcoming
championships taking place over break. Track: Watch for another in-
door ODAC title...

.... Imagine a U.S. Davis Cup team without John McEnroe, Jimmy
Connors or a McEnroe-Peter Fleming doubles team. That’s what
we’ve got for the March 7-9 tie with Ecuador. So much for having
someone you can depend on....

....Larry Holmes says he and Michael Spinks are going to do it all
over again in April. I always knew he would find a way to bow out
gracefully...

...Let me suggest these squads as NCAA action begins to heat up:
Carolina’s the state. Duke, N.C. State and of course the Tar Heels will
be there in the ACC and beyond. Georgia Tech has nearly completed
its folding act. Others of interest: Notre Dame (Syracuse win was first
over a top 10 team for a Digger squad this late in the season since 1981,
a final four year), UNLV, St. John’s and Bradley...

 

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

© Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ’N Crispy®
Pizza and Priazzo™ Ital-
ian Pie, Served after 4 p.m.
Mon.-Fri. and any time
Sat. & Sun.

* Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Sat.).
¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

¢ Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

¢ Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the

   
 

© 1985 Pizza Hut, Inc.

 

 

 

 

salad, pizza, spaghetti, and

garlic bread you can eat for 600 E. Nelson St.
only *3.49. Children under 6 Lexington
years-99 Hut. 463-7000

 

 

University Florist

Wishes
All Students A
Happy Valentines Day
And
An Enjoyable Mid-Winter
Break

463-6080 15 W. Washington

VASP PLE

Patadatgha slgint gt

es

.

Soot PS.

oF bd PPC oa eee

ee wa ee ee eee ee ee OT eS eo

«4 SSS
 

 

 

 

“BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

 

‘Lysistrata’ cast members negotiate for the end of the war

Sex comedy is a hit

 

By JOHN PENSEC
Theater Critic

 

Sex and drinking conjure up im-
ages more of fraternity parties than
of ancient Greece. This could change
after the University Theatre produc-
ed “Lysistrata” this past week.

Aristophanes’ comedy about the
Peloponnesian War opened last Fri-
day, closed Wednesday and enter-
tained audiences the entire time. It
starred Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson in the title role.

Under Lysistrata’s direction, the
women of Athens and Sparta decide
to withhold sexual favors from the
men until peace is declared. Because
of this, ‘‘Lysistrata”’ is intended to be
sexually explicit and may not have
appealed to everyone.

It must be remembered however,
that Aristophanes meant “‘Lysistra-
ta’ to be crude. Audiences have
found the play offensive since it was
first performed. But by being so, it
draws attention to the problems of
war in an unusual way.

Character portrayal was wonder-
ful. Lexington is not the most liberal-
minded city around, but under the
direction of Al Gordon, the play

165 South Main St.

 

faffnorEL bite Florist
We Just Want To Say
Happy Valentine’s Day

To All You Sweethearts
Out There.

seemed to understand and work with
this potential problem.

Senior Mark McDonough portray-
ed perhaps the most memorable of
the male characters. He played Myr-
rhine’s husband and was terrific as
he pleaded with Myrrhine to sleep
with him.

Simpson brought Lysistrata to life,
and she obviously enjoyed doing it.
However, it must be realized that
many people went to see the play
because she was in it. One of W&L’s
deans in a sex comedy? What would
Lee have said about it?

I am sure he would have enjoyed, if
not agreed with; the scene between
Simpson and the Athenian Commis-
sioner of Public Safety, played by
senior Chris Carmouche. It was a
fight to the finish with the women on
one side and the men on the other.
The relish with which both perform-
ers yelled at each other made it a
true battle between the sexes.

There was a good relationship be-
tween the audience and the actors.
The actors obviously enjoyed their
parts and were relaxed in their per-
formances, and this had its effect on
the audience.

For those who found the play
crude, the second act should have

463-9152

 

 

VIDEOCENTER

OF
LEXINGTON

xx Special

Movie Rentals
3 for

1 year membership
Player Rental

or

$2.00
$5.00

99
$5.00 a day

 

463-2177
Lexington, B.V. Shopping Center

Mon.-Sat. 10-9 p.m.

Sun. 12-5 p.m.

Offer Expires Feb. 28

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

been the play’s saving grace. While
no less raunchy, it did include the the
chorus speaking directly to the au-
dience. The chorus discussed the pro-
blems of war that span centuries and
are not restricted to one era. While
good points were made, it was unfor-
tunate that no invitation was issued
to the audience to participate in what
could have been a volatile confronta-
tion.

The play is set in ancient Greece,
but was definitely updated, unless a
chapter of NOW existed in Athens at
the time. Actors costumed as Afghan
rebels, misplaced flower children
and Jane Fonda imitators gave the
play a sense of the present. It also ad-
ded a sense of hilarity, as did a Ram-
bo poster and a sign declaring
“Bears Beat Patriots.”

The message of the play, that war
destroys not only countries but also
families, is one that spans the cen-
turies and should have been taken in-
to account while viewing the perfor-
mance. The play is funny, and it is
serious. In this aspect it is a mirror of
life.

Everyone involved should be com-
mended. Cornedy is hardwork, and
the success of ‘Lysistrata’ shows
them to be workaholics.

Work. Share. Save lives.

bring a lifetime of rewards.

call: 1-800-392-4580.

Call
463-7174

‘Chow Hounds’ sub-merge

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

If there is one thing constant in this
world, it’s the sub. What could be
more satisfying to the Washington
and Lee dilettante than a cold beer
and a hot sandwich that would bring
Dagwood Bumstead to tears? In our
one year mission to seek out strange
new food, we descended on the Sub-
way and the Old Main Sandwich
Shoppe to find the best subs in Lex-
ington.

With our ever-watchful Cold Cut
Comptroller, Walt Devine, we disco-
vered the secret entrance to the Sub-
way (with a little help from their
sign) and walked in.

It didn’t take too long for our
orders to arrive. Chris began with his
“New Yorker” specialty sub, which
contained salami, pastrami, hot
ham, American and _ provolone
cheese. The sandwich was good and
large, with a healthy serving of each
item. Chris, though, was a bit disap-
pointed. Although the sandwich was
good, it just didn’t live up to expecta-
tions such a name invoked.

Jamie’s “‘Italia’”’ was a spicy sand-
wich with ham, salami, hot ham and
provolone. His other sandwich was a

Husker Du:

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

I suppose I should begin this review
by stating my bias: Husker Du is one
of my favorite groups. Personally, I
think they should be as big as Wham!
or Van Halen, but that, of course, is
just my own opinion. In any event,
“Flip Your Wig’’ is a great album.

Husker Du’s joyful roar is a won-
derful thing indeed. It is like a well-
played football game in that the
violence and sheer energy is channel-
led into a brilliant, well-crafted di-
rection.- Likewise, the Husker’s har-
ness their almighty hardcore thrash
into the service at some absolutely
jaw-dropping hooks. For instance,

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns

of Lexington

463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North

él got my Fulbright
scholarship by
helping Costa Rican
children discover the
toothbrush.

 

Craig Leon
Haifa, Israel

If you can meet the challenge, your summer in Latin America can

Like leadership skills. And a career edge you can't get anywhere else.

To be an Amigos volunteer, write: Amigos de las Americas, 5618
Star Lane, Houston, Texas 77057.

Or call: 1-800-231-7796, In Texas,

fu,

UNLIMITED

Spring Break
Will Be Here Soon

Make Your Plans Early
30-day — Advance Low Fares
Still In Effect
Don't Delay

21 W. Washington St.

 

     

corned beef and cheese which Jamie
surprisingly proclaimed the better of
the two. The corned beef was ex-
cellent and the melted Swiss made
for a good combination.

Walter’s ‘Imported Ham and
Cheese’”’ was good, but maybe a bit
too bland. 2

On the whole, we were disappoint-
ed in the Subway. The sandwiches
were good, but that was about it.
Ironically, the problem may be that
the Subway attempts to pile too much
and too many meats and cheese onto
one sandwich. This juggernaut effect
may be great for the more ravenous,
but sophisticated subbers may be
turned off. Fortunately, the
reasonable prices and a good game of
foozball § made up for some of our
disappointment.

The Old Main Sandwich Shoppe
was also a surprise, but this time a
much better one. We fought our way
through the crowd of what must have
been three or four people and made
our way through the teeming Old
Main Street Mall to find The Old
Main Sandwich Shoppe.

The shop is small so we ordered
and sat out at a table in the mall. The
menu was surprisingly large, with a
number of submarines and club
sandwiches, as well as side orders,
soups and desserts. Jamie ordered
the Spicy Sausage Sub and chili,

while Chris decided to go with his
heritage and order the Polish Ham
Sub and a bowl of corn chowder.

We only waited a minute or two
before the chili and chowder arrived.
The chili was hot and very, very
thick, with enough beef and beans to
keep the hungriest chow hound hap-
py.

These good appetizers prepared us
for the even better sandwiches,

Jamie’s sausage sub consisted of; '

kielbasa sausage, Italian pizza sauce
and melted provolone cheese on a
French roll. The sandwich was big,
and the taste was excellent. Subtle
and spicy, the Spicy Sausage Sub far
outdid the Subway’s Italia.

Chris found his sub to be equally
good. Consisting of ham, imported
Tilsit cheese, lettuce, tomato, onions,
and a hot sauce, the first bite made
Chris jump out of his seat and per-
form 4 rousing polka.

Basically, the choice between the
Subway and the Old Main Sandwich
Shoppe depends on your mood. If you
are looking for a lot of food and a lot
of beer for a reasonable price, in less
than dainty atmosphere, then the
Subway is your place. But, if you’re

y

looking for a superior-tasting sand- ,

wich, then seek out The Old Main
Sandwich Shoppe. Either way, they
make: a ‘ine alternative to the fast
food scene.

Bigger than Wham!?

listen to the way ‘“‘Divide and Con-
quer”’ threatens to fly off the handle
and get lost in its own sardonic rage.
But it never does. Instead, it plows
ahead at breakneck speed, all hooks
and enraged vocals, never slowing
down for those not fast enough to
catch up.

“Flip Your Wig” is the first Husker
Du album that finally delivers what
these Minneapolis bohemians have
been promising at. Producing
themselves for the first time, the
Huskers have wrapped this record in
a sleek gloss that cuts through the
sandpaper edge that characterized
their earlier work. ‘‘Loud and Fast”
is no longer the rule. It is only the
springboard for a record that will
get them signed to a major label.

EYE eee

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, February 13
3:30 p.m. — MATHEMATICS COLLOQUIUM: ‘“‘Quaternions anc
Topological Sleight of Hand: A Mathematical Case of Jekyll & Hyde.’
Vernon Eagle, visiting assistant professor of mathematics. Room 6,

Robinson Hall.

327, Commerce School.

 

5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Howe 401. Tea at 4:30 in Howe 402.

Friday, February 14
Washington Holiday begins.

Monday, February 24
Undergraduate classes resume.

Tuesday, February 25
7 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Job Hunting Techniques. University Center.
7 & 9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: “Dr. Strangelove.”” Room 203,

Reid Hall.

Wednesday, February 26
7 p.m. — PANEL DISCUSSION: ‘‘The Third World: A Window on
Development,” Jihan Raheen, director of programs for the United Na- ’
tions; Jack Hutchins, director for communications and transportation k

for Inter-American Development Bank; Margaret Holmes, regional
manager, Peace Corps. Sponsored by the Office of Placement. Room °

The title cut hints that the boys are
fully aware of their impending fame.
“Sunday Section gave us a men-
tion/Grandma’s freaking out over
the attention,”’ sings drummer Hart.
Similarly, guitarist Bob Mould — a
“‘hardcore-Edge”’ if there ever was
one — recognizes the new crowd of
people who have been hovering

around his band. The kids are still .,

there with their fists in the air, but so
are the record-company moguls.
“Walking around with your head in
the clouds,”’ he growls on the album’s
single, ‘‘Makes No Sense At All.”

This is the record that is going to
break the doors wide open but will
they be as big as Van Halen? Well,
God knows they deserve it.

 

 

Campus Music

formerly Campus Shop

 

117 W. Washington St.

TDK SA 90 Reg. $3.29 ea. Now $2.24 ea. 3 pk. only $6.42
Maxell XL 1190 Reg. $3.99 ea. Now $2.60 ga

  

     

. 2-pk. only $5.

  

 

Tee

WILLSON-

HOUSE

Restaurant

 

WALKER

Treat That Special

Someone To
Valentine’s Day Dinner

Featuring a strolling violinist
Open Tuesday through Saturday ’

Lunch 1 1:30-2:30,
Sunday Champagne Brunch 12:00-2:30
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday

30.N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

 

CES
oo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* !

Dinner 5:30-9:00 Y

 

 

 

 

 

AAT: ATOR: teem H..n5 ry AARNE nH

 

a, mac

 
