 

 

Polo profit

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 9

Clothing sale is
part of frat charity

 
    

 

Polo loss
Crowd can’t buoy
water polo team

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

General
Notes

 

Speech canceled

The speech on apartheid by
Willie Brown Jr., speaker of the
California Assembly, scheduled
for tonight in Lewis Hall, has been
canceled because of a scheduling
conflict. :

Philly tailgate

The Philadelphia chapter of the
Washington and Lee Alumni As-
sociation will host a tailgate party
at Saturday’s away football game
at Ursinus College. For more in-
formation, contact Marty Bowers
at (215) 564-5300 during the day.

Mad Max Il

The Student Activities Board
presents Mel Gibson as Mad Max
in “The Road Warrior,” this
Thursday and Friday at 8:30 p.m.
in the GHQ (free popcorn!) and
Sunday at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in Room
108 of the Student Center. Admis-
sion to each show is $2.
Missile crisis

“Missiles of October,” a 1974
ABC-TV production, will be shown
tonight at 7 in Room 327 of the
Commerce School. This ‘‘docu-
drama” of the October 1962 Cuban
missile crisis carefully recon-
structs the onset and eventual
resolution of our closest
showdown yet with Moscow. (This
was not timed to coincide with this

ially recommended for students in
American politics, diplomatic
historv, strategic studies and
ethics. It is a frighteningly
realistic portrayal of brinkman-
ship in the nuclear age.

Calyx pictures

Senior pictures have been
rescheduled to Nov. 11-15 and
Nov. 18-22. All seniors who have
not had their picture taken must
sign up for an appointment in the
Co-op.

Date change

Elisabeth G. Newton, senior
policy adviser for fluid mineral
leasing in the Bureau of Land
Management, was scheduled to
give two lectures at Washington
and Lee on Nov. 6. Due to a leg in-
jury, Newton’s visit has been
postponed and rescheduled for
Dec. 4.

Tomorrow is it

Have you written your Political
Review article yet? Articles for
the fall issue will be accepted until

Patterson (463-4563) or Chris Lion
(463-3678), or bring the article to
Carol Calkins’ office next to the
GHQ before 5 p.m.

Tapestry workshop

Virginia Museum §artist-in-
residence Turid Teague will con-
duct a one-day workshop explor-
ing the creative possibilities of
tapestry weaving on Saturday in
the Community Room of Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital. The work-
shop is sponsored by the Museum
and its Rockbridge chapter.

Biology film

A biology film titled ‘The
Miracle of Life’ will be shown
Tuesday at 5 p.m. The film will be
followed by a short discussion led
by Dr. Jack Wielgus. Refresh-
ments will be served at 4:45 p.m.,
as part of the film series spon-
sored by the Washington and Lee
Biology Forum.

Get your program

Brochures and information on
the Virginia Program at Oxford
are available in Associate Dean of
Students Pamela Simpson’s office
in Washington Hall. The program
involves a_ six-week summer
school course at Oxford studying
history and literature in Tudor-
Stuart England.

Submit

Ariel, the literary magazine of
Washington and Lee, is now ac-
cepting art and literature for the
fall issue. Work may be submitted
to Carol Calkins in Room 104 of the
University Center.

 

month’s Geneva summit.) ESpec-

tomorrow, Nov. 8. Call Nelson -

Some students
left homeless
by downpour

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

A rainy Parents’ Weekend turned
into a week of devastation as the
worst flooding in recent state history
roared through the Lexington area,
damaging some student homes and
destroying others.

A number of students living near
the Maury River were left with soak-
ed but salvageable dwellings, while
some student houses in the Bean’s
Bottom area were swept away per-
manently.

Because not all have contacted the
University, there is no official count
of the number of students who are
temporarily homeless.

A steady rain began here Friday,
reached a crescendo Monday, and
then moved east on Tuesday. Rich-
mond today was bracing for major
flooding as the James River contin-
ued its climb above flood stage.

Gov. Charles S. Robb on Monday
declared a statewide emergency and
yesterday asked that western Virgin-
ia, including Rockbridge County, be
declared a federal disaster area.
Robb yesterday toured the Roanoke
Valley and said damage there totals
at least $243 million.

Early this morning the storm’s
death toll stood at 19, with four others
missing and presumed dead in three
western counties.

Among the hardest-hit areas in the
state were Buena Vista and outlying
regions of Rockbridge County, in-

UiSee Flood, Page 6

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

The historic sweep of statewide of-
fices by Democrats on Tuesday left a
student of that party in “sheer
ecstasy”’ while one local Republican
was “shattered.”

With more than 99 percent of the
state’s precincts reporting, Gerald L.
Baliles downed Wyatt B. Durrette for
governor, 55.3 percent to 44.7 per-

 

 
 
   

 

Shy he sages a

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

By Don Thayer/Specia! to the Phi

Surging flood waters smash through a footbridge across the Maury River

Floods at Hollins cancel classes, Weekend

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

he = - = si
Hollins College near Roanoke was paralyzed by this
week’s storms, with one student saying the ‘‘campus
was wiped out by water.”’

Bauman said yesterday that the flooding ‘happened
so fast you would not believe it.’ She said that on Mon-
day she watched from her dormitory window as the

~ water level rose about three to-fouttearin four hours.

Food for students was rationed and Monday night they
began storing water in bottles, Bauman recalled. As the

Your weekend weather

Cloudy on Saturday;
chance of rain Sunday |

Dhe KRing-tum Phi

    

Extreme flooding caused the school to cancel classes
until at least Monday. Another casualty of the deluge
was Fall Weekend, which was to begin tomorrow night.

A Hollins secretary said yesterday
had left campus until classes resume.

One of those refugees was Leslie Bauman, a Hollins
sophomore who is staying with a friend in Lexington un-

til her campus dries out a bit.

cent; L. Douglas Wilder topped John
H. Chichester in the lieutenant gover-
nor’s race, 51.9 percent to 48.1 per-
cent; and Mary Sue Terry defeated
William R. ‘‘Buster’’ O’Brien for at-
torney general, 61.4 percent to 38.6
percent.

Wilder was the first black and
Terry the first woman to be elected to
statewide office in Virginia.

Politics Professor Milton Colvin
said that ‘the Democrats’ victory
proved that they can win elections if

that most students

ing.

they go with moderate candidates.”’

“Voters are willing to vote for a
black if they feel he is a worthy can-
didate,”’ he added.

Colvin called the victorious slate a
‘Robb ticket,” crediting much of the
Democratic victory to the popularity
of Gov. Charles S. Robb, who gave
his full support to the trio.

Colvin worked on the committee of
Lt. Gov. Richard J. Davis, who lost
the party nomination to Baliles. After
Davis’ defeat, Colvin’s involvement

torrents mounted, no electric lights could be turned on
and the women were kept inside the dormitories because
of the possibility of electric currents in the water.

Bauman added that smoking was forbidden because of
a possible gas leak. The library basement had water up
to the ceiling, and a large collection of books was ruined,
she said. The bookstore also was flooded up to the ceil-

Sweep washes away Democrats’ election blues

in the campaign was minimized, but
he said he continued to follow the
election closely.

“The Republicans never got their
act together,’’ Colvin said, adding
that the ticket ‘“‘was pulled down by
second-rate candidates for lieutenant
governor and attorney general.”’

By contrast, the professor describ-
ed both gubernatorial candidates as
‘first class.”

W. Arthur Beeton, the Lexington
Republican committee chairman,

  
    
  

NOVEMBER 7, 1985

First the flood, now the shortage

City urges
water-saving
measures

By SEAN BUGG
and MIKE ALLEN
Staff Reporters

 

“Do Not Use: Water Shortage,”’
read the hastily stenciled sign tacked
to the door of the locked, darkened
laundry room in Graham-Lees dor-
mitory.

A flood-level Maury River this
week knocked out Lexington’s water
treatment plant, causing the city to
enact emergency water-conservation
measures.

Mayor Charles F. Phillips Jr., a
Washington and Lee economics pro-
fessor, Tuesday asked city residents
to use water for drinking, cooking
and emergency purposes only — no
showers, laundry or car washing.

“I’m filthy. My head itches. I want
to take a shower,” said freshman
David Symonds.

“Dirty people cannot study proper-
ly,”’ added his hallmate Charles Gay.

Frank A. Parsons, assistant to the
University president, said the school
immediately notified dormitory co-
unselors and the athletic department
about the emergency measures.

Freshman Craig Love said it was
difficult to refrain from showers
when other people were not.

One dormitory counselor added
that many students were violating
the guidelines.

“We don’t have people running
around with guns,” Parsons said.
“The hope is that the students will
comply, but if they don’t, we’ll have

(See Water, Page 6

 

said the party is “shattered as far as
the statewide race is concerned.”’

“The differences were not that
great, especially between Baliles and
Durrette,” he added, blaming the
GOP trouncing on poor media repre-
sentation and the influence of Gov.
Robb.

Junior Everett Hamilton, presi-
dent of the Washington and Lee chap-
ter of the Young Democrats, attend-

(See Politics, Page 5

 

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

University Treasurer E. Stewart
Epley, who Friday announced his in-
tention to retire at the end of the
school year, said this week he has en-
joyed his years at Washington and
Lee.

“It’s going to be a wrench to
leave,” he said.

University President John D.
Wilson announced Epley’s retire-
ment plans Thursday in a memoran-
dum to the faculty and staff.

“‘When he leaves us next year he
will leave a strong financial founda-
tion, with sensitive management in
place and an able and loyal staff,”’
the memo said.

According to the memo, Wilson will
do two things to find a successor to
Epley. He will invite an outside con-
sultant to help review the responsibil-
ities now entrusted to Epley and will
actively involve trustees in the
search for the new treasurer.

Although Epley said he does not
know who will replace him, he said
he felt that it would be ‘“‘inap-
propriate’ for him to have a say in
the person who succeeds him as
treasurer.

Epley has been treasurer since
1980 and said he is proud of his term
in office. He noted that some of his
biggest achievements included the

 

 

design and development of a compu-

University treasurer
announces retirement

ter-based management information
system and an improvement in short-
term cash management.

He also mentioned that in the past
five years he has implemented
“more prudent”’ spending measures
for the school’s endowments. Al-
though he said the endowment funds
were not being used carelessly before
he took uffice, he said the policies for
using the funds ‘‘changed frequent-
I

Many of his actions wouldn't have
been possible if he hadn’t received
the full support of University Presi-
dent John D. Wilson and the Board of
Trustees, he added.

Epley noted that one of his most
pleasurable experiences of being
treasurer was working with Wilson.
“T think he is absolutely first class,”
he said.

He said he felt that he hadn’t made
many mistakes during his time as
treasurer. ‘‘I don’t think I’ve blotted
my copybook,”’ he chuckled.

Epley joined the Washington and
Lee staff in 1977 as a development
staff associate, working full-time on
fundraising and alumni relations

Since that time, he said, he has
noticed a number of changes in the
community of W&L students

“IT have noticed a marked change
in the appearance of the W&L
students,”’ he said. ‘‘They dress more
neatly .”’

He also mentioned that he thought
the fraternity system had improved,

 

 

E. STEWART EPLEY

noting that they seem to be taking
better care of their houses and are
beginning to become involved in
community charity projects.

“T think that they recognize that
they are citizens of the community,”’
he said.

He noted that by 1986 he will have
been working ‘‘steadily’’ for 37 years
and wants to do other things. ‘‘Mrs.
Epley and I want to cut loose and pur-
sue our own interests on our own
schedule,”’ he said.

After his retirement, Epley plans
to live in Lexington. ‘It’s a very
friendly and physically attractive
community,” he said, noting the var-
ious cultural and sporting events

Noting that he is under the normal
retirement ages of 65 or 70, he joked:
“Yeah — I’m checking out early.”’

 

 

Apparent heart attack
kills athletics Supervisor

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
Staff Reporter

 

Richard E. ‘‘Chub” Yeakel, the
supervisor of the University’s non-
professional athletic staff, died of an
apparent heart attack Monday at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

Yeakel came to Washington and
Lee in 1971, following Athletic Direc-
tor William D. McHenry from
Lebanon Valley College.

“T knew he was a good man. He had
done a great job for me at Lebanon,”
McHenry said, explaining why he
asked Yeakel, 59, to join him on the
W&L staff.

Lexington Police Officer Harold B.
Nedrow found Yeakel Monday even-
ing trying to park his car on a city
sidewalk.

Nedrow radioed to his dispatcher
at 6:20 p.m. that someone was trying
to park a 1969 Plymouth on the side-
walk in front of the State Theater on
Nelson Street. When he approached
the car, Nedrow found Yeakel ‘‘un
der the driver's wheel,”’ according to
police reports

Nedrow asked Yeakel if he was
OK, and Yeakel said he was having
trouble seeing.

The officer then asked Yeakel if he
was taking any medication, and
Yeakel said he was... Yeakel’s 20-

~ Appreciation, Page 2

 

 

year-old daughter, Jodie, later said
the medication was for high blood
pressure.

Nedrow requested a rescue squad
for Yeakel, who was taken to the

hospital and pronounced dead at 6:48
p.m.

McHenry said Yeakel was a police
officer in Annville, Pa., when he
hired him at Lebanon Valley College.
They worked together there for 10
years before McHenry became
W&L’s athletic director.

Yeakel’s son, Steve, graduated
from W&L in 1979. He is now the ex-
ecutive director of the Republican
party in Montana. Yeakel’s daughter
currently works for Institutional
Foods in Rockbridge County. Yeakel
is also survived by his wife, Irma.

A memorial service was held this
morning in Lee Chapel.

McHenry called Yeakel ‘‘extreme-
ly loyal” and a ‘‘positive influence’
on all his coworkers. ‘‘He will be
sorely missed by his colleagues and
by most of the students who are in-
volved with athletics,’ McHenry
said. ‘‘He was behind the scenes in all
phases of the athletic program
here.”’

 

 
 

 

OPINION
Sometime...

The scene was the same as last week. 1984-85 Calyx editor
David Sprunt was trying to answer questions posed to him by
members of the Executive Committee.

‘“‘Can you have the yearbook done by Monday?”’ asked Vice
President Andrew Caruthers.

‘‘T would say, ‘ probably so,’ ’’ responded Sprunt.

“Not ‘probably,’ ’’ stated Caruthers. ‘Can it be done by
Monday?”

“I will probably have five pages left by then, if it is not
finished,”’ Sprunt replied.

The 1985 Calyx has yet to be completed for shipment to the
printer. Of the nearly 352 pages to appear in this year’s (last
year’s) publication, 27 pages are yet to be completed, in-
cluding 15 pages that still must be designed, or “‘laid out.’’ At
a minimum of two hours per layout, that means at least 30
hours more are needed for completion of the yearbook. That
should not be pleasing to anyone.

While Sprunt’s efforts at creating and designing an aesthe-
tically pleasing publication are to be highly commended, his
discipline at finishing the book leaves much to be desired. His
admission earlier this year that it is ‘“‘all my fault”’ that the
book had not been finished over the summer was gentleman-
ly, but nearly two months have passed since that time with-
out completion of the annual. Something is awry in the state
of Calyx.

The lesson for next year’s editors is clear: A better delega-
tion of responsibility, greater attention to completion of
layouts (especially seasonal sections of the yearbook like
sports teams) and a closer watch on the calendar can avoid
this hassle next year. Although this year’s book promises to
be the best ever (as is expected of every yearbook), that
seems of little consolation to graduated seniors and under-
classmen who eagerly await the memories of the past year.

‘Cheap’ showers

Do you ever feel cheap?

On Wednesday morning, a certain Phi editor thought to
himself, ‘‘I’ll be darned if I’m going up to the Hill looking like
I just got hit by a Mack truck.”’

So, in direct violation of the city’s request, he jumped in the
shower, slathered down...

And felt like a sleaze.

With all the derelict doings a W&L student is used to ration-
alizing, convincing himself that it’s OK to take a shower is, in
the Federal Express commercial’s words, “noooooo pro-
blem.”’

It doesn’t seem fair that the scofflaws among us looked
pressed and perky, while the law-abiding, community-mind-
ed types look like the wrath of God.

Vanity, thy name is Mink.

It’s a time like this that we find out what our values really
are. Are we willing to make a sacrifice for a community
where we’re a guest — where we should be even more willing
to shoulder the burden in a crisis than are the local citizens?
Or are we going to cheat, like the students who wing erasers
when the teacher’s not looking?

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

7
oi OD

 

  

NN QS
Pra A

oe TT

Ti De

\

Haar EN

SLT SR

     

a Wi

4 il
.

LW
nN

 

 

 

Is the single sanction system passé?

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

 

 

Remembering ‘Chub’

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
and MIKE STACHURA
Phi Editors

Everyone on campus knew him as
the salt-and-pepper bearded man in
the equipment room. You could us-
ually find him sitting behind the
counter when you needed the squash
racquet or the key to the auxiliary
pool. He could find anything in that
room, and always with a smile or en-
couragement to do well in the class or
activity.

On Monday, that man — Chub
Yeakel — died of a heart attack. He
was the sort of guy who if you were
not paying attention would blend into
the woodwork. But if you ever needed
anything or if you asked anyone who
worked in the building, it was obvious
that Chub literally kept the Doremus
gym and Warner Center from falling
apart.

There are all kinds of stories about
Chub and his contributions to this
campus. You could usually spot him
in the back row of Lee Chapel during
any Glee Club concert, sitting with
his wife or some friends. And if he
didn’t like the concert or thought that
some piece should have sounded a bit
different, you would always hear
about it the following Monday when
you needed to get a fresh towel. He
didn’t complain about the concerts;
he just would thank you for doing a
good job.

Another time he searched the
equipment room’s abundant supply

Managing Editor
Sports Editor..... :

Business Manager

is otherwise independent.

 

avis saad ds tpt ddes ta0esds nee
bisitsai teste ss i ee
ewer ire oer ree Jim Strader
ib as idea vevcesequsseecais Chris Bowring

eerie Pes BOP 5 ik cates
eee eee
CA a i A er LS

Advertising Manager ................... :
Advertising Salesmen ...............000008

of old uniforms for some shorts that
did not have ‘‘XL”’ marked on the left
leg for a modest secretary who want-
ed to take a gym class but didn’t have
an outfit that day.

Chub was like that grandfather
who would always tell you to be
careful with that ball or not to run
through the house. You said, ‘‘Yes,
sir,” and grumbled away, but you
also knew that come Christmas day,
that same old grouch would be there
with the biggest present for you.

Most of what Chub did went unno-
ticed, and it would be a fair guess
that the man wanted it that way. The
squeaky door that needed just the
right touch, the burnt out light on the
scoreboard, the skid mark on the
just-shined gym floor, and the rush
order of laundry that the tennis team
needed for its fourth match that week
— it all got done. And if you forgot to
turn in that tennis racquet or kept a
towel by mistake, Chub would be one
of the first faces you would see in
matriculation line, accepting depo-
sits for lockers or collecting fines for
lost or damaged equipment. His
records were picture-perfect and an
accountant’s dream — he could tell
you the lost racquetball would cost
you $3 dollars unless you replaced it.

Chub was a man with a big heart
and a kind manner. John Milton, the
famed English poet, knew Chub’s
type well when he wrote, “They also
serve who only stand and wait.”
Chub did more than stand and wait,
and we will be poorer for his passing.

Che Ring-tun Phi

Ramee gts a acs
MN Ba et ica is

encenndescvesepes se ecateveres Mike Allen
jectsiivcinnssanwunires Paul Foutch

Cotton Puryear
Reade Williams

ote beeteeneseeeeet casi veexe Jeff Kimbett
Nahis eas ee aaa cee Hank Greenberg

UE PES ge at aE Keri Hinrichs

Matt Coudert
John Feyrer
Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

There is a provocative discussion
going on at Davidson College these
days that could have ramifications
on the way church-related higher
education institutions all over this
country view their purpose. I hope it
also sparks a discussion on this cam-
pus as to whether the current state-
ment of Washington and Lee’s pur-
pose and the principles of the Honor
System are what we desire of them.

The Davidson discussion stems
from a recent visit by a Presbyterian
church official to the Davidson cam-
pus. During his stay, he noted that
the College’s statement of purpose
seemed to be misleading and, at best,
a noble challenge that the school was
ignoring.

The statement of purpose at David-
son urges all trustees, faculty, ad-
ministration, friends and students to
“recognize God as the source of all
truth. As a college committed to the

‘Ex-EC Rep’ questions

To the editors:

Allow me, as another “Ex-E.C.
Rep,” to offer, in response to Mr. Jim
Vines’ letter of last week, the follow-
ing counter-propositions :

eThat the authority newly given to
the Student Control Committee, to
expel students for gross misbehav-
ior, provides a long-sought justifica-
tion for the Executive Committee’s
abdication of its duty to review and
remedy behavior presenting ques-
tions, not merely of trustworthiness,
but of honor. This abdication is, of
course, but a symptom of the general
abdication by us students — or by a
significant number of us — of our
own duty to govern ourselves by the
unwritten code of honor, and to re-
quire the same of our fellows. Our
professors, tacitly acknowledging
this abdication, have responded by
taking back the liberties granted us
in 1865, when General Lee abolished
the old system of rules and punish-
ments.

That the idea, that the new system
of rules and punishments and the for-
mer Honor System do not overlap or
conflict is founded upon a void con-
ception of ‘‘honor.’’ Mr. Vines’ asser-
tion, that honor is strictly 2 question
of trustworthiness, reduces the term
“thonor”’ to superfluity. Trustworthi-
ness, to be sure, has always been a
vital part of honor: one who is un-
trustworthy can in no way be called
honorable. Yet surely one who exhib-
ited great cruelty, or base and harm-
ful cowardice, or wanton disregard
for the life, health, or property of
another — surely he could not be call-
ed honorable, though he never lied,
cheated or stole in his life. I submit
that trustworthiness is but one out-
ward expression of an inner, and
greater, thing, which is honor. If all
we require of ourselves and our fel-
lows is that we not lie, cheat, or steal,
we should add three more rules to the
list, providing that these activities
are to be punished by expulsion (or
by membership in a fraternity); then
we should make the Executive Com-

historic Christian faith, [Davidson]
sees Jesus Christ as the central fact
of history, giving purpose, order, and
value to the whole life.’’ More than 20
years ago, Davidson’s trustees back-
ed down from a requirement that all
faculty members sign a statement of
faith attesting to their agreement
with the purpose. jhe

The discussion there now centers
around the need for updating the
statement and bringing it in line with
its church affiliation and the faculty
who continue to teach there. A dis-
cussion of a similar nature ought to
begin at Washington and Lee.

Our statement does not have the
same problem as Davidson’s. Since
we were founded independent of any
church affiliation, Washington and
Lee and its statement of purpose
avoids the church-institution dichoto-
my. However, our statement does
seem equally noble in its intent. We
dedicate ‘‘all our resources to the
development of one’s capacity and
desire to learn” and to experience

mittee only a budget committee, and
quit pretending that we have an
honor system.

¢That a system of rules and punish-
ments is, from first principles, in-
compatible with an honor system.
The basic assumption underlying an
honor system is that those within its
scope are honorable and, given a
choice, will behave honorably. The
underlying assumption of a system of
rules and punishments is that those
subject to its control are dishonor-
able or indifferent to honor (which
strikes me as the same thing), and
will, unless restrained by rules and
threats of punishment, behave unac-
ceptably. Our former system provid-
ed for punishment for minor misbe-
havior, to be sure, but its assumption
was that such misbehavior was ex-
ceptional and needed not be forestall-
ed by rules and threats. For serious
offenses to the peace and integrity of
the community, that system offered
no punishment at all, but simply af-
forded the community a remedy.
Punishment implies an intent to
teach a lesson, and a lesson requires
the opportunity for its application.
The single sanction allowed the dis-
honorable student no chance to mend
his ways. It was a statement that
Washington and Lee was no place for
those who needed such lessons; it
was a rejection, not only of the bad
act, but of the dishonorable
character that produced the act. Ex-
pulsion for behavior that does not im-
pugn the actor’s honor is extreme
and unconscionable. If the new rules
do not involve matters of honor, then
the Student Control Committee
should have no power to expel.

eThat men and women of any time
can have no better guide and ex-
emplar than Robert E. Lee. General
Lee practically embodied, as few
men since Christ have done, the
timeless vitures comprised by the
term “honor.” If love, courage, duty,
truth, pity, pride, compassion,
sacrifice are 19th-century nostrums
which the present day has outgrown,
if these virtues have not survived the

the ‘‘varied benefits of intellectual
growth” in a climate that ‘‘stresses
the importance of the individual”
and ‘‘personal honor and integrity.”’

While I do not doubt that we con-
tinue dedicated to these principles, I
wonder whether all people in this
community Students, faculty, admin-

’ istration and staff — realize the im-

plications that statement brings.

For me, as for many others, any
doubt that exists about the Universi-
ty purpose certainly deals with the
Honor System. While we pride our-
selves on the student-run system and
often cite Lee’s genderless command
for students ‘‘to behave as gentle-
men’”’ as reason for its existence and
sustenance, we do not always realize
what such a profession entails. Per
the current challenge facing the
Honor System at neighboring Virgin-
ia Military Institute in a suit filed in
Federal District Court, one facet of a
profession of faith in this University,
and thus the Honor System, includes
a belief in the single-sanction system

we now employ.
Schools employing the single-sanc-

tion principle in their honor systems *

are few and far between. Colleges
cite the need for ‘“‘leniency”’ in deal-
ing with individual cases. No two
cases are the same after all, they

say. And besides, many students are |

afraid to turn in their peers knowing

-

that if that peer is found guilty of an

honor offense, there is only one pen-
alty. It hurts to get expelled, they
note.

In the face of seeming student re-
luctance to turn in peers, a question
arises: Is the System outdated, or is
the single sanction rule the real pro-
blem here?

It seems to me the single sanction
system ought to be re-examined.
While it emphasizes the need for a
uniform understanding of all infrac-

tions, the single sanction rule also —

creates an undue hindrance for stu-
dents trying to comply with a system
they respect but within which they
cannot live.

the definition of honor

““Me”’ generation, give me the 19th
century with all its flaws. But we all
know that those virtues hav e surviv-
ed: they are eternal. We know them
when we see them, and we approve of
them. Our problem today is that we
lack the strength of character to live
by them. We might find that strength
in the example of General Lee, and in
our resolution to guide our lives by
his. If this generation is corrupt, why
should we not look to the best of a
former one as a guide for remaking
our own?

I am forced to express, before I
close, my shock that Mr. Vines, a son
of this institution, would adopt a
vicious falsehood in criticism of our
gallant founder. Having read several
accounts of General Lee’s activities
at the second battle of Cold Harbor, I
am unable to connect the alleged
“unconscionable actions’, to which
Mr. Vines refers with any historical
fact. For some reason not clear to
me, Mr. Vines has chosen to adopt
the particsan accusations of some
persons who were unwilling to ac-
knowledge the true cause of the suf-
fering of the wounded at Cold Har-
bor; that is, the pride of General U.S.
Grant. For two days or more after
the battle, Grant refused to pray for a
truce so that the wounded — almost
all his own men — could be attended
to. Lee urged him to do so, but for
Grant to make such a request would
have been to admit defeat. Never
mind that Cold Harbor was one of the
most costly fiascoes Grant’s army
suffered in the whole course of the
war. If Mr. Vines seeks unconscion-
able actions at Cold Harbor, let him
look to the Union commander, who,
having sent some 40,000 men to their
deaths in the previous month alone,
through his murderous policy of war
“by attrition” (Grant’s words), per-
sisted in ordering his men to charge
on foot across open country against
strong entrenchments, until finally,
ordered once again to commit suicide
against the Confederate wall of fire,
with more than 7,000 of their com-
rades lying dead before them on the

field (Lee lost about 1,200), his men
simply refused to obey, and stood in
silent condemnation of his inhuman
tactics.

Lee needs no advocate, for his life
honors him more eloquently than
words ever can. But no patriot can
keep silent when one who should
know better not only perpetuates a
lying accusation of cruelty against
this great hero, but actually holds it

up as typical of Lee’s character, and ™:

therefore condescendingly chides us
for revering him. Certainly Lee was
human Virtue would be empty in one
not tempted by vice — but of all
humanity, Lee shines with few others
in history as the flower of our race. I
do not comment upon the few valid
points of Mr. Vines’ letter, for this
disloyal and falacious attack over-
bears any geod his argument might
contain.
James D. Crutchfield
Law Class of 1987

Water polo
spectators

appreciated

To the editors:

This past weekend, the Washington
and Lee water polo team played
before a large, supportive crowd at
each of its five matches. On behalf of
the team, we would like to extend a
very deserving show of appreciation
to everyone who came out to watch
us play. We wish to especially thank
those who attended the championship

game between W&L and the Univer- *

sity of Richmond. While we are sorry
that we could not bring a victory in
this final game, we gave it our all,

}

and we are grateful to all of you who,

Supported us. Hope to see you in
swim season!

David Lewis ’86

Tim Stanford ’86

Co-captains, 1985 Water Polo Team

1
NEWS

East Asian major may
get link with business

2

 

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee students may be able to combine
courses in business with East Asian studies in an in-
tegrated program next school year.

According to Dean of the College John Elrod, the pro-
gram is still “under the most preliminary considera-
tion,”’ but the hope is to allow East Asian studies majors
to take a core of courses in the business administration

. department.

+

Roger Jeans, director of the East Asian Studies Pro-
gram, explained, ‘‘The idea we started with was that it
might benefit the East Asian studies students to enhance
their marketability to international corporations if we

" could give them some economics, business and account-

é

r

ing.”’

The anticipated program would not require a new ma-
jor. As the idea stands now, a degree in East Asian
studies could be granted with a certificate recognizing

. concentrated work in the business administration de-

4

partment.
Elrod stressed that the program is in its initial stages

, and may never even become a reality. He said an

2

‘

'

’

é

’

+

.

'
?
t

’
’

>
’
,

, tional

Associated Press article that appeared in The
Washington Post’s Virginia section in April drew calls of
congratulations from other schools, even though the
plan was still in its infant stages.

Several administrative problems have to be worked
out before the program can begin.

For example, unless prerequisite requirements are
relaxed, East Asian majors might not have the time to
complete the requirements for two majors and the
General Education Requirements.

In addition, the program may create too many stu-
dents far the business denartment.

Business Professor John DeVogt explained, ‘We are a
very small department and business-commerce is the
biggest major on campus.”

He said that because of the staffing problem, his
department cannot handle any more students in its in-
troductory classes.

The concept of some type of “international business”
major is the brainchild of several department chairman.
The East Asian major with a certificate could be the
beginning of future application of business courses to
other international courses of study.

“On the other end,” Jeans said, ‘the business people
were talking about further international training. The
thinking was broader than East Asian studies, but East
Asian was the starting point.”’

Jeans sees many opportunities in the East Asian
Studies Program for business majors to gain an impor-
tant understanding of a foreign culture in which they
might work someday.

DeVogt said there is no problem encouraging students
to take electives in East Asian studies through the
General Education Requirements. Students may also
take advantage of study in Asian country through the ex-
change program.

“No problem,’’ DeVogt said. ‘‘We can do that. We can
encourage students to do that.”’

According to DeVogt, money has been made available
to hire an economist specializing in Asian economics.

“The position is funded. The search is on,” he said.

With this addition to the business faculty, ‘we will
have the resources but it will take an awful lot of coor-
dination”’ to inaugurate the program.

“There is no reason to believe that we can’t work out a
program,” he continued. ‘There is every reason to
believe that the Pacific rim basin will become as impor-
tant as the European’’ in relation to international
economics.

 

Speaker

calls for
review

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

 

Peter Bell, a senior associate of the
Carnegie Endowment for Interna-
Peace, told a Commerce
School audience last night that the

* search for peace in Central America
_ must begin with a better understand-

ing of the historical roots of the cur-
+ rent crisis.

That, in turn, should result in a
“much different American policy
, toward Nicaragua and E] Salvador,

said Bell, a former deputy assistant
‘ secretary of Health, Education and
, Welfare who has spent a great deal of

time in Central America studying the
: situation there.

Bell said the United States has
"been oblivious to change in Central
, America.

“The most important change has
* undoubtedly been the change ... that
, has occured in the Catholic Church,”

Bell said. The Church has moved
‘from siding with the government to
, Siding with the poor, Bell said.

The area also has experienced eco-

nomic growth and the development

, of a reform-conscious middle class,

he said. Ignoring these changes leads
‘to a misunderstanding of the people
, of Central America, Bell said.

For example, Americans assume
‘that Central Americans see the con-
-flict just as we do — as one between

the United States and the Soviet

"Union. Americans also tend to be-
ilieve that Central Americans want
, the U.S. concept of democracy.

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Peter Bell speaks in the Commerce School last night

“In Central America there are no
Jeffersons,”’ Bell explained. ‘‘How-
ever, there are Bolivars who will de-
fend their countries against foreign
invaders.”

“Our government has two major
objectives in Central America: to
overthrow the Sandinista govern-
ment in Nicaragua, and to defeat the
rebel forces in El Salvador,” he said.

Bell said negotiations with the
guerillas are the best bet for the
United States because a military vic-
tory would be elusive.

“The guerillas retain a veto power
against peace, through sabotage.
They can cancel out much of the ef-
fect of U.S. economic aid.”’

On Nicaragua, Bell said, “I am

deeply skeptical about the adminis-
tration’s policy. First, I believe that
our objective of overthrowing the
Sandinistas is misguided .... And sec-
ond ... I do not believe the Contras
are a reliable instrument toward
achieving that policy.”

Continuing our current course may
make the Sandinistas more oppres-
Sive, he said

Bell said that the United States
must work within established diplo-
matic means, such as the Contadora
group, in order to achieve success in
Central America and to keep U.S. re-
spect in the world community.

“We cannot be a bully and a police-
man at the same time,” he said.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

 
  

a py
a ‘

\ su "
he alae elle aa 9 ert a wt8

  
  

 

 

 

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

Although the adage says “charity begins at home,”’ at
Washington and Lee this year that could be changed to
“charity begins at the house.”’

In separate as well as joint efforts, fraternities on
campus are undertaking a variety of projects to benefit
charities and provide community service, ranging from
blood drives to haunted houses for local children.

Mike Marshall, president of Delta Tau Delta, which
has organized several events this fall and recently added
a charity spokesman as a regular house office, summed
up his house’s feelings about charity projects, feelings
that many other fraternity members shared.

“We are more than happy to do them,”’ Marshall said.
“It takes a lot of time to get things organized. We do
what we can.”’

The Delts have organized two events this fall, both of
which Marshall called successful. The first was a con-
cert held in the General Headquarters tavern Oct. 25
that benefitted the United Way. The concert featured
several local bands, all of which donated their time, as
did members of Delt, who collected money at the door.
The concert raised $900.

The other event Delt sponsored, organized by their
pledges, was a fundraiser to combat multiple sclerosis
in conjunction with the W&L-Bridgewater football game
last Saturday, which Marshall described as ‘kind of like
a Walk-a-thon.”’

Instead of people pledging a certain amount of money
per mile walked, Marshall said, the Delts took pledges
for statistics such as “the number of yards Kevin
Weaver gained”’ in the game. In addition, Marshall said,
Delt pledges canvassed the stands during the game,
Seeking donations.

Marshall said no total has been calculated yet for the
amount of money raised through pledges, but about $70
was collected from the fans at Wilson Field.

A clothing sale was held at the Kappa Sigma house this
week, from which a portion of the proceeds will go to the
United Way. Bill Hemphill, president of the house, said
an arrangement was made with a clothing representa-
tive to sell clothing at Kappa Sig in exchange for a 10
percent cut of the proceeds. He said the money will be
donated to the United Way.

The idea for the sale came from a Hollins College stu-
dent group that had run a similar sale. Hemphill said
that group had used the sale as a fundraiser for its own
activities rather than for charity.

Kappa Sig also makes a monthly donation to the Yel-
low Brick Road day care center, Hemphill said.

Chi Psi sponsors a blood donation drive each year in
conjunction with the American Red Cross. In addition to
that project, house president Joe Whelan, said he and
pledge educator Chris Beckert are looking for a com-
munity service project for the Chi Psi pledges.

“We want to get together with the city board to see if
there is anything that can be done in a day by a group of
about 20 guys.”’

The Halloween season gave several fraternities the
opportunity to hold haunted houses for children in the
community.

Cnarles Nusbaum of Lambda Chi Alpha called his

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Shoppers check out the sales at Kappa Sigma’s Polo sale for ‘United Way

Frat charity

Greeks lend a helping hand

 

fraternity’s effort ‘‘a big success.” He said that about
150 children showed up.

Bourke Harvey, Phi Delta Theta’s president, said a
member of the Buena Vista Jaycees asked if Harvey
could help organize a haunted house for children in
Buena Vista. Harvey agreed and volunteered the assis-
tance of his house.

“We had six or seven guys go to Buena Vista each
night of Halloween week and help run the haunted
house,”’ Harvey said.

The Phi Delts, as well as some other fraternities on
campus, have plans for more charity work later on in the
year.

Harvey said his fraternity regularly holds a Christmas
party for children in Lexington, for which the house is
decorated and one of the members dress up as Santa
Claus.

The children who attend usually are between the ages
of two and 14, Harvey said. Each child who comes to the
party is set up with a “big brother’’ at the house, who
buys the child a gift and shows him or her around the
party.

The Muscular Dystrophy Association Superdance is
an event that usually draws a good deal of fraternity
support. Jim Barker, a Superdance committee member,
said his house, Kappa Alpha, has traditionally supported
the event.

“The Muscular Dystrophy Association is our national
philanthropy at Kappa Alpha and we try to encourage as
much house involvement as possible,” Barker said.

KA has given MDA a lot of support, he continued, not-
ing that two of the Superdance committee chairmen in
the past several years, Townsend Oast and Rick
D’Alessandrini, have been KAs, and that house mem-
bers have helped in various committee positions and
have made a strong showing on the dance floor.

‘It’s a blast, and we try to encourage as many of the
guys to participate,” Barker said.

Phi Kappa Sigma is another house involved with the
Superdance. Sandy Whann, a Phi Kap and Superdance
co-chairman this year, said the house is ‘“‘always a big
supporter’’ of the dance and has included dance par-
ticipation in its pledge eudcation program.

“As a fraternity, we gave the largest amount of money
in pledges last year,’’ Whann said.

Fraternities also band together in charity work
through the Interfraternity Council. Hugh Black, the
IFC member in charge of one of this year’s projects,
said the IFC is asking each fraternity to donate two to
three cans of food for each of its members to a food bank
for the needy in the area for distribution around Christ-
mas time.

“We hope that it will turn out to be a pretty effective
project,” Black said. “It’s an official statement to the
community that the fraternities are helping, and it’s
good PR between the houses and town.”

In addition to the benefits that these projects bring to
the various charitable organizations, ‘good p.r.”’ seems
to be a motive for some of the projects.

‘‘We wanted to get our name looking good on cam-
pus,’’ Marshall said about Delt’s recent surge of involve-
ment. “The thing is it no only looks good on Delta Tau
Delta fraternity, it looks good on the whole fraternity
system.”

 

 

* Staff Reports

 

A masked man carrying a small handgun threatened
' the owner of Woods Creek Grocery last Thursday and
, demanded cash from the store’s register before running
out of the store with $95, according to police.

Gail Nuckols was alone in the store on Lime Kiln
Road about 9 p.m. when a man she described as being 5-
, foot-nine, 180 pounds, wearing a green army coat and
gray mask, and brandishing a small handgun entered
the store.

, _ The man took the money and fled east on Lime Kiln

Road.

Lexington police officers Harold B. Nedrow and Sgt.
S.E. Crowder immediately secured the area around the
store but could find no suspect.

Rockbridge County’s tracking dog trailed the subject
down McLaughlin, White and Jefferson streets but lost
the trail on Washington Street because of crowded side-
walks.

+ Nuckols, who owns the store with her husband was
the only witness to the crime, the police report said.
Police Chief L.O. Sutton said identifying the robber
+ would be very difficult since he was wearing the mask
_ and the heavy coat.

a

»

-

*

+

‘

—Chris Deighan

‘Watt named department head

Chemistry Professor William J. Watt has been named
"to a five-year term as head of the chemistry depart-

 

 

ment beginning July 1.

A member of the Washington and Lee faculty since
1955, Watt served as assistant and associate dean of the
College of Arts and Sciences from 1966 to 1971, when he
was named dean of the College. He stepped down in 1984
to return to fulltime teaching.

Watt is a native of Carbondale, Ill. He received his
bachelor’s degree in chemistry from the University of
Illinois and his master’s and Ph.D. from Cornell Watt
taught at Davidson College and Cornell University
before joining the W&L faculty.

While at W&L, Watt has been a participant in the
Robert E. Lee Research Program and has sponsored
the National Science Foundation research grants for
W&L undergraduates. He has been a research partici-
pant at the Oak Ridge Nation] Laboratory. a visiting
professor for an NSF Institute for High School Teachers
at Alabama College and an NSF research participant

Head gets emeritus status

Lt. Col. Harold S. Head, registrar at Washington and
Lee from 1966 to 1984, has been named University
Registrar Emeritus. The appointment was made by the
Board of Trustees at its meeting last month.

Head began his military career in 1943 after
graduating from the United States Military Academy at
West Point, and saw duty in World War II and the
Korean War. He is a graduate of the Infantry School at
Ft. Benning. Ga., where he also served as instructor
and assistant director of instruction. He is a graduate of
the Command and General Staff College at Ft. Leaven-

worth, Kan., and served as an instructor in social
sciences at West Point from 1947-49,

Head holds a master’s degree in history from Har-
vard University. He is a graduate of the U.S. Army Lan-
guage School, where he studied Japanese in prepara-
tion for duty as staff officer to the Military Assistance
Advisory Group in Japan from 1959 to 1962.

Head, who retired as W&L registrar in September, is
past president of the Virginia Association of Collegiate
Registrars and Admissions Officers

Dunbar to. present lecture

Assistant English Professor Jean C. Dunbar will deli
ver the fourth in a series of lectures sponsored by the
English department next week

The lecture is scheduled for Tuesday at 4 p.m. in
Room 21 of Payne Hall.

Titled ‘The Meaning of Ornament: American Fiction
and Victorian Design,” the lecture is concerned with
notions of meaning in American literature of the 1850s.
Dunbar will examine the subject in the larger context of
Victorian art, architecture, and even furniture to sug-
gest that some modern views about the 19th century are
incorrect.

The purpose of the lecture series is to provide an op
portunity to learn about research being done within the
English department at W&L. Dunbar’s paper repre
sents several years of study on meaning in art

Dunbar received her bachelor’s degree from Kenyon
College and both her master’s and Ph.D. from the Uni
versity of Virginia. She joined the W&L faculty in 1983

 

 

Masked gunman flees after robbing Woods Creek Grocery

Professor, student write article

Law Professor Roger Groot and Tom Thagard, a jun-
ior European history major from Montgomery, Ala.,
have teamed up to write an article to be published in the
Jan. 1986 issue of the Virginia Bar Association Journal.

The article, entitled “‘Immunized Witnesses in Virgin-
ia,” deals with an obscure Virginia statute first written
in 1793. Groot and Thagard argue that the archaic
terms of the statute — once understood — do not allow
immunity to be granted in exchange for testimony that
could convict others. The authors say the statute for-
bids the admission of witnesses who have been granted
such ‘‘pocket immunity.”

Groot said it is unusual for an undergraduate to work
with a law professor on a project. He credited History
Professor Taylor Sanders with contacting him about
Thagard’s interest ina related field.

“This never would have happened on a larger cam-
pus,’’ Groot said.

Archaeologist presents paper

Kurt C. Russ, research archaeologist at Washington
and Lee, recently presented a paper at the annual
meeting of the Archaeological Society of Virginia in
Blacksburg.

The paper, titled ‘‘Archaeological Excavations at the
Rockbridge Pottery,” described the archaeological re
search conducted at the 19th century potter, focusing on
its spatial organization and the technological level at
which it operated.

 
 

 

 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

W&L photo book

to be put together

by Pulitzer winner

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

A two-time Pulitzer Prize-winning
photographer has been taking pic-
tures of Washington and Lee for a
photo book that is expected to be
ready by the 1986 Christmas season.

The book will consist mostly of
photographs of the University, along
with a few articles, according to
Assistant to the President Frank A.
Parsons Jr.

W&L’s book will be similar to a
book about the University of the
South in Sewanee, Tenn. The photo-
grapher — Pulitzer winner Bill
Strode — the publisher — Harmony
House — and the format — mostly
photographs — will be the same.

The Sewanee book emphasizes the
timeless qualities of the campus,
Parsons said. Few shots of recogniz-
able people or modern settings are

shown.

Harmony House approached the
school about publishing the book,
Parsons said, and is planning a simi-
lar one about Virginia Military Insti-
tute.

Strode, the principal photographer,
said he will make W&L’s book simi-
lar to Sewanee’s. He plans to return
to Lexington throughout the year to
include all four seasons in the book.
He said he plans to concentrate on
the front campus and Lee Chapel.

Although some problems with the
publisher still need to be worked out,
Parsons is confident that the book
will be a success.

He expects the book to be popular
with alumni and students. He feels
that the campus and the surrounding
areas are photogenic enough to make
an excellent book.

The book should be ready for sale
next winter at a price of $25, Parsons
said.

 

Presidential address

University President John D. Wilson addresses a Lee
Chapel crowd of parents Saturday morning as part of
Washington and Lee’s Parents’ Weekend. About 1,260

events.

Macintosh Dynasty?

Students use computer to catalog Reeve’s collection

 

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

What do an 18th century vase and
an Apple Macintosh computer have
in common?

They’re both in the Reeves Center,
Washington and Lee’s collection of
18th, 19th and 20th century ceramics
donated to the school in 1967 by Mr.
and Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves.

The center, located just off the Col-
onnade near Tucker Hall, houses the
Reeves collection and some other
University art work. With an expan-
sion of the collection came a need for
better cataloguing of the collection,
so the center has turned to storing in-
formation about its art collection on
computer chips.

 

Ads in The Phi
pay off
463-8581

 

 

Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

 

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

 

 

 

463-3612

Junior Mike Weisbrock, a work-
study student in the Reeves Center,
developed a way to transfer informa-
tion on the index cards to the center’s
Apple Macintosh. The information is
stored on the computer disks to make
inquiry about a specific item more
accessible.

“People wanting to see the items
will have easier access to them
through the use of the computer,”’
Weisbrock said.

The idea is to make a print-out of
information that is detailed enough to
make recognition of the item possible
even for the common observer.

This information is useful because, *

rather than being considered a» mu-
seum, the Reeves Center, which
opened in 1982, is more of a research
and learning center, said its direc-

tor, James Whitehead.

The collection includes the Reeves’
ceramic collection, paintings and wa-
tercolors by Mrs. Reeves, and art
items from other areas of the world
that Whitehead has added.

Weisbrock and his partner in the
project, senior Bob Strickland, are
also exploring the possibility of using
a computer camera to take pictures
of the art work in the center.

The pictures would be printed out
on the computer, allowing the new
catalog system to contain not only
factual information but visual infor-
mation on a work of art.

Weisbrock and Strickland are hop-
ing to be able to include this visual

aspect in the filing system in the near
future.

 

 

Get More Involved
With W&1

Be an Advertising Representative for
The Ring-tum Phi

Fringe Benefits include:
Health Plan
Insurance Policy
AT&T Calling Card
Company Car
Generous Expense Account

Now Interviewing — Contact Jeff Kimbell
(463-9410)
Hank Greenberg (463-6685)

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

CHILDREN’S BOOK WEEK

Nov. 11-17

All children’s books 20% (or more) off

W&L Bookstore

 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

“Best Pizza in Lexington”’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463- 3133

ee ee

 

Wendell’s
Barber

Shop

| need your head for
my business.

 

Tim McCune, a journalism student
who graduated last year, used a
video camera to record an introduc-
tion to the Reeves Center for its
guests.

The camera was also used to make
tapes of the different varieties of
porcelain in the center, which has
been trying to come up with better
and better ways to present the works
it houses.

There are 12 students at the center
working on independent research
projects, some ofthem workstudy
students. The time they spend away
from the work-study job is on a volun-
teer basis.

“Much of the research may be ap-
plied for credit in certain classes,”
Weisbrock said.

110 S. Jefferson St.
Le

463-

Hours:

Sunday 10am to lam

   

 

Commons.

sentatives to help you.

 

Dick Emrey (703) 463-4362 (evenings)

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

parents registered for the weekend, which included open
houses in academic departments and home athletic

Senior David Nave said the stu-
dents’ work benefits them and the
center itself.

“It is a thrill doing work that so-
meone has never done before,’’ Nave
said. ‘The center provides a good op-
portunity for students to work with
one of the best Chinese export collec-
tions in the country.”’

As Whitehead said, the center pro-
vides ‘‘an unusual opportunity for the

students to be able to work with these ©

materials on the undergraduate
level.”

The center, though, is not restrict-
ed to students who are doing
research or work there. Tours are
given by appointment and can be
made at 463-8744.

Yearbook
approaches
completion

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

 

Senior David Sprunt, the 1984-85
Calyx editor, told the Executive
Committee Monday night that the
number of unfinished pages in the
yearbook is down to 27, from the 35
reported last week.

The yearbook, already six weeks
overdue, may not be done by Christ-
mas, Sprunt reported last week.

“It’s very close to completion,’’ he
said.

EC Vice President Andrew Caru-
thers, who led the questioning of
Sprunt, asked if the layout of the
yearbook would be completed by
next Monday.

“‘T would say probably so,”’ Sprunt
said.

Even then, publication of the book
would take about six weeks, although
that time period is uncertain, Sprunt
said.

EC President John Lewis asked
Sprunt to return Monday to give
another report on the Calyx, which
was originally scheduled to be dis-
tributed at matriculation this year.

In other EC action:

eThe EC is planning to detail its
support of the single-sanction honor
system toa U.S. District Court that is
hearing a case involving a Virginia
Military Institute cadet who calls the
system arbitrary and unconstitu-
tional.

“We have a lot at stake here,”
Caruthers said.

Lewis asked the three law repre-
sentatives — Joel Johnston, Bill
Thompson and Bill Senft — to write a
friend-of-the-court brief detailing the
benefits of an honor system whose
only penalty is expulsion.

Representatives of the Indepen-:
dent Union and the Rugby Club failed:
to appear at Monday night’s meeting:
to discuss their respective budgets. -

Caruthers made the motion ta:
freeze the two clubs’ funds until they,
confer with the EC. The vote 7
passed unanimously.

eThe EC reported that the Country: ,

Kitchen restaurant has started ace;

cepting student checks.

eFour student organizations ard}
scheduled to have budget hearings?
during next week’s EC meeting.’

They are Contact, the Film Society; .
the ’86 edition of Calyx, and the cold:

check committee.

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

 

 

BORDEN

~ COMMONS =

~Lexington's First Conontisioen Coraaity

ro) jae)
rt a

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

Phase I of Borden Commons enjoyed a successful welcome from the community and quickly sold
out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts, we are introducing Phase II of Borden

These new and beautiful condominiums are designed to fulfill your every need, and they're located
just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.I. and the historic Lexington community.

Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condominium living?
; &

If you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre-

Baker Real Estate
Post Oftice Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Ottice (703) 463-7319

Tom Baker (703) 463-2510 (evenings)

 

SS SSS

 

*
+
+
*
.

TOTP O DIOR S CORO ROAD I Te

 

 

 
 

Booked

Library orders at request of professors, students

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Need a book for your honors thesis
and the library doesn’t have it?

Although Washington and Lee’s
University Library gets most of its
book requests from professors, stu-
dents also can ask the library to buy
certain books.

Each year the library receives ap-
proximately 15,000 requests for books
to be added to the collection. Last
year the library bought about 9,000
volumes.

About 800 books have been pur-
chased since the summer of 1984 to
replace volumes that were missing
during an inventory taken at that
time.

Professors can request books by
means of ‘Choice cards,’’ which
have reviews of books that might be
of interest to colleges. The library
gets the cards from the American
Library Association and distributes
them to professors, and if the pro-
fessor wants to order one, he simply
signs the card and returns it.

Students may request a book
through a professor or directly from
one of the librarians.

“T have nothing but praise for ac-
quisitions,’’ said English Professor
James Warren? ‘‘I request books, the
library orders them, and they tell me
where they are.”’

“If material is needed in a hurry,
we’ll try our best to get it in a hurry,”’
said acquisitions librarian Annette
John.

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela Simpson told of a situation in
which she needed a book ‘‘rushed’’

last year. Simpson telephoned John
to request the book.

 
     
       

  

 

E. Nelson St,
463-2186

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HARROW. Thue Value STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

“She called the company, ordered
it, had them put it on a bus, and we
got it within a week,’’ Simpson ex-
plained

Students often request materials
through a faculty member. History
Professor Lamar Cecil, who is also
chairman of the Library Committee,
said, ‘I’ve had students recommend
books to me and then I have gotten
them to bring the titles to me, and
I’ve ordered them for the library.”

The ‘Choice cards’’ used by the
faculty and library staff are sent
once a month, except in July and
August, when the sets are combined.
The library gets two sets of the cards,
which are printed by the library jour-
nal ‘‘Choice.”’ Both the cards and the
journal are published by the Ameri-
can Library Association.

As soon as the library receives the
Choice cards, one set is divided up
and the appropriate reviews are sent
to the various departments.

Meanwhile, the other set of cards is
circulated among the librarians, who
are responsible for different subject
areas. Then the two sets are merged
and books are ordered just before the
next set of cards arrives.

The library’s goal is to ‘‘try to get
what people want as quickly as possi-
ble without duplication,” John said.

Roger Jeans, director of the East
Asian Studies Program, said that
sometimes the library will return his
request slips with a notation that
says Virginia Military Institute has
the book and asks if he still wants it.

“Generally, I say, ‘no’ but if I want
it for a closed reserve, sometimes I
do order a second copy,”’ Jeans said.

Physics Professor Tom Williams

  
 

     
   

Mon, - Sat. 8:30- 6:00
Stn. 1-5 :

MS Pa as ed

Sea at) eae a Uh

PREPARATION COURSES

For: Lexington

AU
Cee
Rieu

>

x

-

+

SAT

eda

said, ‘Never to my knowledge have
we requested a book and it’s not

come ...I think the library's fairly ef-
ficient once they get the book in
hand.”

Dick Grefe, reference and public
‘ervices librarian, explained his role
in acauisitinns Tt includes respon
sibility for overseeing the politics,
journalism and reference areas of
the collection.

He tries ‘‘to keep up with what’s be-
ing published over and above the
Choice cards.”’

“There are two ways I look at
reviews and references,’’ Grefe said.
If a book is good, he considers
whether it will be used at W&L. Or,
he said, when he knows a professor is
teaching a certain course, ‘‘I try to
find out what we have, and what we
ought to have, but don’t have.”’

Finally, his work at the reference
desk is helpful. He may learn from a
student writing a research paper that
the library has little in its collection
on that topic.

John described herself as ‘‘Queen
of the Junk Mail,,’ since every spring
and fall she receives dozens of cata-
logs from publishers.

“I try to keep on top of what’s com-
ing out, so we’ll have things when the
major reviews appear,”’ she said.

Although the library doesn’t have
departmental allocations,a record of
expenses is kept according to depart-
ments. Books not requested by a fac-
ulty member are put under a general
total for each subject area.

Beginning in July, the total 1985-86
library budget for purchasing mater-
ials is: books, $194,389; serials, (in-
cluding newspaper and magazine
subscriptions) $207,278; audio-visual
materials, $13,500.

“Our funding for acquisitions is

remarkably generous,’’ Cecil said.

Simpson said, ‘“‘There has always
been a perception on the part of the
faculty that the library will order
anything you can make a case for.”’

The library has to pay for books by
the end of the fiscal year in June, so it
usually stops ordering books in mid-
April.

In addition to the budget, the
library does have some gift money
and endowed funds available for pur-
chasing materials. ‘We try to buy
things we would not buy ordinarily
because we feel gift money is for
special things,’’ John explained.

Last year the library received 5,514
volumes directly as gifts. Of those,
2,846 were added to the collection.

Cecil said he hopes the Library
Committee will develop a policy of
accepting as gifts only books that will
be useful.

‘“‘We want to avoid taking material
which faculty and staff would make
no use of,’’ Cecil said.

The library also receives requests
for newspapers and magazines, but
these are handled differently from
book requests.

John explained, ‘‘We ask for a let-
ter of justification from the person
requesting it. We need to make sure
people have considered it thoroughly,
since once we start subscribing, we
usually keep going.”’

Before the library starts a new
subscription, the University _li-
brarian, acquisitions librarian, and
staff member responsible for that
subject area will have a discussion
and look at a sample copy. The Uni-
versity librarian makes the final de-
cision.

The library is currently conducting
a serious review of its monographs
and periodicals.

 

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

463-2742

 

 

 

463-9588

 
 

Classes now forming

Classes now forming

For a free brochure call Toll Free:

800-222-TEST

The National Center for Educational Testing

or write:

Suite 5B

1200 Bustleton Pike

Feasterville, PA 19047

GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25%
or take the next course FREE.

 

aw ge.
ps (

By Appointmant
Robins Peggy « Marie

ee ae EN ee

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA aso

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985, Page 5

 

Politics

 

Continued from Page 1

ed his party’s victory celebration at
the Hotel John Marshall in Richmond
as a reporter for WLUR-FM

“After my reporting was over, |
became a Democrat,” he said. ‘‘I had
to wait until I filed my last report.”

“It was the best feeling in the
world,” he said, adding that he had
“been in mourning” since the Repub-
lican presidential victory last year.

He said that as he watched ‘‘young
people and old people, blacks and
whites, men and women,”’ all cele-
brating, he was struck by the fact
that they were a reflection of the vic-
torious ticket.

“The papers have sort of labeled
this as a historic occasion,’’ he said
“You could actually feel it in the

room.... You knew that now all these
people were represented in the poli
cy-making.”’

“This was sheer ecstasy,’’ he con-
cluded.

W&L students had originally plan
ned to broadcast live election cover
age simultaneously on WLUR-FM
and Cable Channel Nine. Because of
a power outage Tuesday afternoon,
the television coverage was cancel
ed, but a team of more than 20
students aired three hours of live
election returns and analysis on
WLUR.

Using its reporters in Richmond,
WLUR carried the news of O'Brien's
concession 10 minutes before it was
reported by the Associated Press

 

 

 

  
 
 

y"

    

TTT T

4

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Jim Strader (right) and Mike Stachura anchor election night

formerly Eastern Distributing now
located in Old Main Street

Shopping Mall.

 

We carry: Clarion * Jensen * Pioneer * Linear Dynamics

® Maxell and others.

Program
At The

Begins

6 p.m.

To Register
Or For More

Information

Call

 

LSAT Preparation

Student Center

November 12

1-800-222-TEST
 

 

 

 

 

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

THE AFTERMATH

 

 

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

A plastic sheet protects books from a leak in the University Library

 

Flood

 

Continued from Page 1

cluding the towns of Glasgow and
Goshen. Lexington escaped with a
few evacuations and comparatively
minor damage

Rockbridge Sheriff $.M. Reynolds,
who has been with the sheriff's
department for 32 years, said the
flooding was ‘‘much worse’”’ than the
devastation inflicted by Hurricane
Camille in 1969. He said many long-
time Goshen residents said the
wreckage there is the worst in more
than 50 years.

A number of W&L students, includ-
ing some affiliated with the Lampost,
traveled to Buena Vista to assist
residents in cleanup efforts, and
Virginia Military Institute cadets
provided aid in Buena Vista and
Glasgow.

Among the affected W&L students
were seniors Mark Fishman and
Lance Yonkos, who temporarily have
moved into their fraternity after
their house on Route 622 northwest of
Lexington was surrounded on three
sides by the river.

“We're not going back there yet
because we have to have the founda-
tion checked,’’ Fishman said.

The flood downed telephone and
electrical lines to the house, which
normally is about 150 feet from the
river.

Fishman said the river covered
some of the houses closer to it,
destroying some. One house was
lifted off its foundation by the torrent
of water, he said.

“You've got to realize the force,”
Fishman said. ‘It wasn’t just float-
ing.”

Water

 

 

) Continued from Page 1

to take measures to encourage them
to comply.”

A widespread rumor on campus
yesterday was that W&L was plan-
ning to cancel classes for the rest of
the week at the request of the city
government.

“There has been no request from
the city of Lexington to close the
school,” Phillips said.

 

The house was carried 300 yards,
“ripping through trees’ and smash-
ing a telephone pole, he said.

W&L offered its homeless students
temporary housing in the dormitor-
ies and the visiting teams’ quarters
in the gymnasium.

University Services Director Wil-
liam N. Mohler said that at least
eight beds were available to students
in need, but that students who show-
ed initial interest later found housing
off campus.

Many W&L offices closed early on
Monday, and Frank A. Parsons, as-
sistant to the University president,
said a number of professors were
unable to make it to campus on Tues-
day.

Law Professor James M. Phemi-
ster was flooded out and his home
won’t be repaired for about a month,
according to Mohler.

Another casualty of the week’s
storms was the small footbridge over
Woods Creek, which was swept from
its place Monday by the flood waters.

‘*When we built it we knew this was
going to happen one day or another,”
said James L. Arthur, director of
Buildings and Grounds. The bridge
was attached to the creek’s bank by a
cable, which kept the bridge from be-
ing carried downstream. Arthur said
putting the bridge back in place
would not be difficult.

Another visible aftermath of the
rain was a tree on the campus walk-
way near R.E. Lee Episcopal Church
that was blown over by the wind dur-
ing the storm.

Arthur said that although most of
the tree has been removed, workers
are waiting for the ground to dry
before moving the larger pieces.
After that, they will repair the young
maple the larger tree fell into.

Phillips said that on Tuesday, the
city had about a day and a half’s sup-
ply of water remaining and that the
conservation measures were design-
ed to extend that to five.

He said yesterday that the city’s
current target for returning normal
service is Saturday afternoon.

Julia Martin, assistant public infor-
mation officer at Virginia Military
Institute, said that ‘“‘basin-washing”’
only was being permitted, and that
cadets were being served on paper
plates, a measure adopted by many
W&L fraternities.

The crisis is the result of damage to

Most of the other damage was in
leaky roofs. Several classrooms and
the Moot Courtroom in Lewis Hail
were hurt by dripping water, and
some of that room’s ceiling tiles will
have to be replaced.

Water began leaking in WLUR-
FM’s Reid Hall control room early
Saturday evening. When the leak was
investigated, water was found ‘“‘just
sitting on top of the tiles’ on the ceil-
ing, according to senior Ken Jacoby,
the station’s news director

One turntable was covered with
protective plastic, and all programs
from Saturday night until Tuesday
morning originated in the station’s
production studio

A tree weakened by the storm fell
on a power line Tuesday, causing a
three-hour, campus-wide power out-
age.

The outage temporarily shut down
the University computer system in
Tucker Hall. Dr. Thomas D. Imesen,
director of the computer center said
no serious harm was done — it ‘‘just
means that there’s less [computer |
time for students and administra-
tion.”

He added that data that had just
been entered by users but had not
been saved was the only information
lost during the shutoff.

Imeson said the solution to lost
computer time due to power outages
“is putting in an uninterrupted power
source.”’ That would cost at least
$100,000, an expenditure Imeson does
not favor because of the rarity of
power failures.

Another storm-related disruption
was damage that knocked out the
University phone system yesterday

‘‘So that’s why it’s been so peace-
ful,’’ said News Office Director Brian
D. Shaw when he learned he couldn't
receive incoming calls.

the water treatment plant in east
Lexington. At midday Tuesday, the
20-foot-tall building still was almost
totally submerged.

Police Chief L.O. Sutton said three
city workers were trapped in the
plant all night on Monday and were
evacuated at 8:30 a.m. Tuesday by a
Marine helicopter from Roanoke.
The trio had been forced onto the
building’s roof at about 2 a.m.

City Utilities Director W.B. Weems
said all power was out at both the
water treatment plant and the near-
by waste water treatment plant.

He said that until Virginia Power

 

 

 

i .
Cee es

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A porch swing reflects in flood waters in East Lexington that had been 10 feet deeper

wall 2 Ad ? Tie ae , ae

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Junior John Lowe tempts fate in trying to cross a 200-foot wide Woods Creek

can restore the current to the pumps,
the water situation will remain the
same.

Among those feeling the crunch of
the water rationing was the Universi-
ty Cleaners, which said it can make
no promises about when laundry will
be ready, because the water could be
cut off at any time. The measures do
not affect dry cleaning, however.

Utilities Director Weems called the
interruption of water service ‘‘a real
nasty aggravation that we will get
over.

“It’s not life-threatening, but it
sure is a lot of trouble,”’ he said.

 

 

Lk

4

en
2S

_

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Waters lap at a gas station island in Buena Vista, above

The rainstorm knocked over this tree on Monday, left

1PM sm! A AW

AP

”
SPORTS
Gridders No.6 in the South

 

 

,By DAVID EMRICH
_Staff Reporter

 

Coach Gary Fallon said it would be
‘a tough game and that Bridgewater’s
1-5 record was deceptive. Coaches’
, talk, right? Well, Bridgewater gave
W&L everything it could handle
“before succumbing to the Generals
*7-0 on a soggy field. The win moved
_W&L to a ranking of sixth in Division
ITI’s South region.

The only scoring occurred with
’3:56 gone in the first quarter when
“Kevin Weaver, on the fourth play of
the game, took a draw 56 yards for
‘the touchdown, giving the Generals a
‘7-0 lead that they would not lose. On
the very next series, however,
Bridgewater got as far as the W&L
'10-yard-line before Tim Janyska in-
tercepted a pass in the end zone to
thwart the Eagle’s only serious scor-
‘ing threat of the afternoon. Later in
the game, Bridgewater missed field
goal attempts of 34 and 39 yards.

Piranian:

“positive

thoughts’

’ By ROB MacPHERSON
* Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee soccer
‘team, presently possessing a 6-5
* record with two games remaining, is
, approaching its most crucial portion

of the season.
.’  Asplit of the two remaining games,
. at Averett and Liberty respectively,
would guarantee the Generals a win-
‘ning season, something which the
team failed to accomplish last
season. ‘‘We desperately want a win-
, ning season,” the head coach Rolf
Piranian said. ‘‘There are lots of
“ positive thoughts and feelings com-
,ing from the team.”
Piranian added that he will do
nothing to jeopardize this_season in
_his efforts to improve the skills of his
returning players. He said, ‘There
- will be no next-year thoughts until
this season is over.”

Liberty, with an 11-1-3 record,

«stands as the Generals’ toughest
competition of the season. Liberty
* has allowed only five goals going into
_its game against W&L.
Commenting on the game, Coach
‘Piranian said, ‘‘We’re not going
down there to try to play a close
" game. If we play well with intensity,
, we can win.’’ He also said that the
reaction of his team will indicate how
‘well the younger players can deal
_ with pressure, many of whom have
been seeing a good deal of playing
‘ time lately.
Several freshman have made an
impression on the coach and have en-
» abled him to make a fairly drastic
_ line up change. Co-captains Billy
Holmes and Jimmy Tucker have
» been moved from their customary
_ positions of forward and sweeper, re-
spectively, in an effort to, as Pira-
‘nian put it, ‘‘get things clicking.”’
. Holmes has been brought back to de-
fense, leaving a spot open on the for-
‘ ward line which gives one of the
, many talented freshmen an oppor-
tunity to play. Tucker has moved to
‘ center midfield where his leadership
» will be more available to the Gen-
erals’ young forward line.
Piranian hopes that this blend of
. fired up freshmen mixed with the
stability of the upperclassmen will
“work on the field against both
, Averett and Liberty. “I’m looking for
, Buys that are hot,”’ the coach said.

‘

“It was a tough game on a tough
field. I’m certainly not making ex-
cuses,”’ said Fallon, ‘because they
had to play on the same field. The
defense played well enough to get a
shutout. We were glad to win it, but it
wasn’t lucky, we earned the win.”

The win gave the Generals sole
possession of the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference lead with a 4-1 con-
ference record. The win completes
the W&L ODAC season and gives the
Generals a chance to claim the con-
ference title. There are three possi-
ble outcomes in the conference race:

eEmory & Henry, who handed the
Generals their only loss, a 30-0 blow-
out on opening day, has one more
conference game left against Mary-
ville. If they win the game they will
be declared conference champions
by virtue of the head-to-head victory.

Randolph-Macon has two confer-
ence games remaining. If they win
both times and E&H loses its last con-
test, W&L will be ODAC Champions,
as they defeated R-MC 31-19 earlier
this season.

elf both E&H and R-MC win all
their remaining games, there will be
a three-way tie for the conference ti-
tle.

Saturday, the team travels to Col-
legeville, Pa., to play Ursinus. The
Bears have lost three consecutive
close games including last week’s
35-34 loss to Muhlenberg. Ursinus led
but gave up a touchdown and a two-
point conversion with 11 seconds re-
maining in the game. The previous
week they lost to Johns-Hopkins on a
field goal with 24 seconds to go. Prior
to that, they were defeated by an
unbeaten Gettysburg squad on
another late touchdown followed by a
two-point conversion,

“They [Ursinus] have a 2-4 record
with 3 games remaining,” said Fal-
lon. ‘So it is important to them to win
all their remaining games so they
can have a winning season. They lost
three tough games, including a loss
to an undefeated Gettysburg squad,
and could easily be 5-1 right now.”’

“We saw the Gettysburg film and
they [Ursinus] did everything but

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

beat them on the scoreboard,”’ Fallon
continued. ‘They have good, tough,
aggressive athletes at every position
and they really want a winning sea-
son. We’ve played teams from Pen-
nsylvania before, and they’ve always
been very tough,’ the Generals’
mentor said.

“Each game seems to get tougher
than the last,” Fallon said. ‘‘Ursinus
plays in a very tough league, and I
anticipate a good game.”

SIDELINES: W&L now has a 6-1
record overall and a 4-1 ODAC record
... Ursinus is 2-4 ... This is the first
meeting between the two teams ...
Defensive Back Scott Henderson,
who has missed the last two games
with a badly bruised inner calf, is ex-
pected back for Saturday’s game...
Kevin Weaver entered the Bridge-
water game leading the nation in
scoring with 16.4 points per game, he
was also second in rushing with a
144.0 yards per game average ...
Weaver rushed for 126 yards on 26
carries against Bridgewater ...

 

 

 

 

wf
ye

 

   
   

ELT RST %

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Water polo coach Page Remillard goes over strategy in the Richmond game

Polo just short of Richmond

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

Although playing Richmond closer
than it has all season and benefitting
from a highly partisan crowd, the
Washington and Lee water polo team
fell to the 17th-ranked Richmond
Spiders in the championship game of
the Southern League tournament
held at W&L this weekend.

W&L came up against the Spiders,
in their fifth meeting of the season,
after defeating James Madison,
25-21, George Washington, 20-6, and
Virginia Commonwealth 22-1, bring-
ing the team’s season record to 19-11.

Against Richmond, the Generals
came out as a group with a mission.
W&L followed each of Richmond’s

Men, women X-country third

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

Running on what Coach Dick
Miller described as ‘probably one of
the worst days I’ve ever encountered
for running,” the W&L men’s cross
country team placed third Saturday
in a four-team meet at Eastern Men-
nonite College.

Lynchburg College finished first
with a 37, followed by Hampden-Syd-

 

+

 

a
an

‘ GENERAL

 

 

 

 

The Stains
of W&L
on stage

. Sat.

Have you tried GHQ

for dinner?
463-8578 Opens at 11 Mon.-Sat.

9-]

Opens at 2 Sun.

 

 

first three goals with goals of its own
— each time bringing the crowd to a
roaring ovation. The first period end-
ed with the Generals down by one
goal, 4-3.

While the Generals continued pres-
sing Richmond in the second period,
the Spiders were able to widen the
margin to three goals with a score of
8-5 by the half.

The intensity continued in the sec-
ond half. Each team played tough
defense, and the teams traded goals
throughout the rest of the game. The
Generals, however, could only get as
close as two goals.

Though the team finished second,
the players expressed no regrets
about their performance.

“T thought it was a great game and
the crowd was super. Richmond did

ney with a 53, W&L with a 54, and
EMC with an 86. Sophomore Scott
Rippeon nailed down the top spot in
pacing all runners with a 27:25. Mil-
ler described Rippeon’s performance
as ‘‘his best individual effort since he
has been at W&L.”’

The W&L women also ran Saturday
against EMC and Lynchburg. The
women’s record dropped to 1-5-0 as
they came in third with a 57 behind
EMC with a 28 and Lynchburg witha
38.

what they had to do. They showed
that they were true champions,”
commented head coach Page Remil-
lard.

Senior co-captain Tim Stanford
had similar sentiments about the
team’s performance and about the
fan turnout. ‘‘We were bummed that
we lost, but we played good polo. We
were psyched with the turnout.”’

Senior Scott Johnstone, who, along
with Stanford and David Lewis,
played his last W&L home game on
Sunday, added, ‘‘It was a good way to
end a career — in front of a crowd.”’

The Generals will compete this
weekend in the Eastern Champion-
ships, which includes the top eight
teams in the East. While the
Generals are ranked eighth, they are
the only Division III team included.

at EMC

Freshman Carolyn Arbogast paced
the Lady Generals with a time of
25:30, good for sixth place.

This weekend the ODAC champion-
ships will be run at Hampden-Sydney
College, as the Generals take their
8-4 mark to Farmville to defend their
1984 ODAC title.

Roanoke is the heavy favorite go-
ing into the meet and as Miller put it,
“everyone else will probably be run-
ning for second place.”’

DOMINO'S PIZZA

463-

1375

~ Wehave
Classic Coke

Sun. - Thurs.
Fri. - Sat.

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Saturday’s game wasn’t pretty, but it was a win

 

Root of evil?

....More money may be the solu-

tion and/or further detriment to the

TIME _ ncaa basketball recruiting scan-

OUT dals that of late have become a set-

**** your-watch-by-it type of situation.

Come again? Well, seems ol’ Dale

By Mike Brown, hoops boss at Louisiana

Stachura State, has come up with a plan

designed to get the gunk out of the

recruiting game. Brown's plan, de-

tailed in a letter provided to all NCAA Division I institutions, would,

among other things, enlarge the national tournament to include all 282

D-I schools and would make it mandatory for scholarship athletes to
receive a $100-month ‘essential needs” stipend.

Well, Dale, yes and no.

The idea behind letting everybody into the fun is that coaches and
their programs wouldn’t be faced with the pressure to get a bid to the
national championships. Included in that benefit list of course would
be over-anxious alumni. With their alma mater in the tourney every
year, it’s a good bet fewer cars would be flowing under the table to
student-athletes. Sure, there’s the thought that the regular season
would be rather dismal. Maybe, but teams would still be comneting for
seeds, and there’s the additional excitement of giving, say, a VMI a
chance to win it all every year.

The financial hoopla of a 282-team national cage tourney would be
great indeed. We're talking an additional week-and-a half of TV
revenue (big bucks and no whammies, in essence). Not a bad idea.
Here, we've got a chance to do something exciting and something that
portends no evil. Obviously, you don’t have to cheat to get in the tour-
nament if you're already there. Granted, you’re asking for all sorts of
logistics problems with 282 teams competing, but something tells me
the increase in TV revenue (ESPN is doing a pretty fair Pavlov’s dog
about now) will more than offset any of these numbers and brackets
quandaries.

Not the same case with part two, though. The letter states: ‘An
athletic scholarshp should include $100 a month for essential needs
such as notebooks, pens, pencils, laundry money, snacks, food when
cafeteria is closed, etc.’’ There’s something amiss when we start
treating athletes very differently from our non-celebrity students.
Regluar students don’t get $100 a month to cover essential needs ex-
penses. They cover essential needs by a summer job or a work-study
job. Students that are athletes in their extra-curricular life should not
be any different. That already sketchy line between professional
sports and the glitzy world of big-time college athletics needs to be
strengthened. Allowing $100 donations to scholarship hoopsters (and
that’s what it amounts to, since there’s no way of checking how the stu-
dent spends his stipend) would all but erase that line.

Brown’s plan, then, is good in that it alleviates the outside pressure
to win that often proves quite the detriment to a scandal-free college
game. It fails by making student-athletes professional before their
time. We can take some solace from the Brown plan. It is a step in the
right direction. The game needs as many of those as it can get....

.... Wading on down the Colonnade, a big round of applause for the
water polo Generals in their fine effort against Richmond. Nothing to
be ashamed of. And while we're talking about things to be proud of, it
was good to see such a grand turnout for the championship game. You
see, fan support does make a difference...Grid action was not pretty
but got the job done, and you can take that to the bank anyday. Foot-
ballers should have their hands full Saturday. Will need more offen-
sive production if they are going to get win No. 7....

 

 

 

 

. . something in chiffon? or
perhaps a delicious crepe? some-
thing that might be worn off the
shoulder?

We have it at The Bridal Suite,
just downtown. Gowns by
designers like Ursula, Nadine,

 

Gunne Sax, Bernelle, Miss a re
Elliette, and others 7
THE BRIDAL SUITE
More than a Bridal Shop

 

26 S. New St., Staunton

 

 

 

 
-BACK PAGE

‘Chowhounds’ rate
local frozen treats

 

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

Ice cream is truly a divinely in-
spired food. It’s perfect except for
one thing — there are too many
flavors and styles to choose from.

A Washington and Lee sophisticate
could spend hours in Sweet Things
mulling over the bountiful possibili-
ties.

Chris even described one night-
marish evening when he stood in
front of Sweet Things, unable to
decide on the truffles and Brie ice
cream topped with hot papaya, or a
double-dip of Grand Marnier and
Chateau Rothschild '68. Three hours
later, when he finally decided on a
vanilla shake, the proprietors had
closed up and driven home.

We could have none of that. In our
eternal quest for journalistic ex-
cellence we knew that a full-course
ice cream meal was called for in
order to best review Sweet Things.

We arrived for our 7 p.m. reserva-
tions and were immediately seated at
our favorite window table by our
maitre d’, Walter Devine. Unfor-
tunately, Sweet Things does not sup-
ply table cloths, candlelight or ster!-
ing silver, so we brought our own.

Feeling quite ravenous, I ordered a
pistachio cone for an appetizer. On
the recommendation of our maitre
d’, Christopher chose the grape
freeze for a cocktail. It sounded so
good I ordered an orange freeze, just
to back up Chris’ evaluation.

The cocktails quickly arrived, and
they were nothing less than fantastic.
Prolific Sweet Things chowhounds
that we are, we still had never had a
freeze before. It is basically a
sherbet and Sprite blended into the
consistency of a regular shake.

If you're saying to yourself,
“Slurpee,”’ think again, because the
freeze has a lot of taste (the sherbet
here is excellent) but doesn’t overdo
it.

Both of our freezes kept their con-
sistency throughout our tasting. It

seemed that I enjoyed Chris’ a little
more, while Chris thought my choice
was better. You'll simply have to find
out which one is good for you, though
we suspect that any choice is good.

My pistachio cone was also very
good. Since the ice cream at Sweet
Things is all made there, it tasted
very fresh and had a very distinct
flavor. Of course what cone taste test
would be complete without biting off
the bottom of the cone and sucking
the remains of the ice cream out. I
can report that this test was suc-
cessful.

Our taste buds primed for the main
course, Chris and I selected our en-
trees. Chris decided on the large
banana split with cinammon gra-
ham, strawberry and black rasp-
berry ice cream, topped off with an
adventurous strawberry topping on
the black raspberry and strawberry
scoops while opting for hot fudge on
the cinammon graham scoop. Chris
is considered a master ice cream
wright by Sweet Things afficianados.

With some helpful hints from Walt,
I chose the large sundae with pepper-
mint and that old standby, oreo, top-
ped with strawberry and marshmal-
low toppings — all of this with a dash
of jimmies on top, for appearances.
With dinner, I ordered the time-
honored vanilla malted, while Chris
chose the root beer float with vanilla
ice cream.

In almost no time, the chef had
whipped up our orders and they were
set down, frosty cold, before our glut-
tonous eyes. Without further adieu
we dug in. Chris immediately de-
clared his split splendid. The banana
wasn’t too mushy and the combina-
tion of hot fudge and strawberry top-
pings made for excruciatingly good
eating.

Chris’ favorite flavor was the cin-
ammon graham, which is a frequent
visitor to the “flavors of the day”
board. Graham crackers never had it
so good until this ice cream came
along.

Chris also enjoyed the root beer
float, which had a very large portion
of vanilla bobbing around in there.

 

You Are Cordially Invited lo

SEA BONAE

OCEANFRONT INN

 

 

Spend Christmas or
Spring Break in
Ft. Lauderdale

Special Group Rates Available

For immediate toll free reservations call
collect 305/564-8531

 

 

(Pre-ott-so)

A.
P cg

R

 

 

Pri.4z:z0

you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo rm Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

Like they say in Chunky soup com-
mercials, you’re not sure whether to
eat the float with a straw or a spoon.
Chris uses a specially designed sys-
tem that combines the best of straw
and spoon, but he won’t divulge it un-
til the copyright is through.

My sundae was also very good.
Oreo, possibly the best flavor since
Baskin-Robbins’ now defunct ‘‘Here
Comes the Fudge,” tasted great with
the marshmallow topping. The pep-
permint made for a good flavor con-
trast with the oreo. The strawberry
topping is very good, but the marsh-
mallow could have been hotter. It
had congealed, forming a protective
barrier over my ice oream that left
me in tears. I called some friends in
the sculpture annex, and with the
skillful use of an acetylene torch, the
marshmallow crisis was over.

One other problem was the unusual

‘lack of taste in my vanilla malted. I

had the feeling that a little too much
malted was applied, but I suppose
that can be attributed to a certain
nervousness on the part of the staff,
due to the presence of such chow-illu-
minaries.

After a cup of water and a cup of
orange sherbet to clear our pallets,
Chris and I began to feel our sweet
tooths kicking in. Commonly known
as “Sweet Things second wind,’’ we
were ready for dessert.

Chris ordered a slice of the home-
made ice cream pie, while I went all-
out with a slice of ice cream pie a la
mode (ironically enough, apple pie
ice cream on top).

The pie was a butter ice cream
with a chocolate cookie crust. The
slices were large and tasted good but
I think that there are much better
flavors than butter pecan. Unfor-
tunately, this is the only flavor
available for the moment.

I’m happy to write that Sweet
Things is a shop that is easily enjoyed
all year long due to its excellent ice
cream, value and service.

Commerce School.

203, Reid Hall.

p.m. in Room 21. Public invited.

Headquarters.

at 4:45.

University Center.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

Thursday, November 7
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “The Missiles of October.’’ Room 327,

7 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: ‘Harlan County” and ‘‘USA.”’ Room

7 p.m. — ROMANCE LANGUAGE FILM: “El Supra.” Cuban with
English subtitles. duPont Auditorium.

Friday, November 8
3:30 p.m. — MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘Matching in Steinhaus Graphs.”
Prof. Wayne M. Dymacek. Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3

Monday, November 11
9 p.m. — MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL: Free popcorn. General

Tuesday, November 12
4 p.m. — ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: ‘The Mear.ing of Ornament:
American Fiction and Victorian Design.”” Prof. Jean Dunbar. Room
21, Payne Hall. Refreshments to follow.
5 p.m. — BIOLOGY FORUM: FILM: ‘‘The Miracle of Life.”” Room
305, Parmly Hall. Discussion led by Dr. Jack Wielgus. Refreshments

7&9p.m, — FILM: “Grand Illusion.”’ Room 203, Reid Hall.

Wednesday, November 14
4 p.m. — JOB HUNTING TECHNIQUES WORKSHOP. Room 114,

5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR. Howe 401. Tea at 4:30 in Howe 402.

 

 

Glee for Mom

Southern Comfort, Washington and Lee University’s
popular singing group, serenades a parent in the au-

dience during their performance on

Friday. Joining

 

By Scott Ferrell/W&L

Southern Comfort for the annual Parents’ Weekend con-
cert in Lee Chapel were the W&L Brass & Percussion
Ensemble, Glee Club and Chorus.

TV knocked out by flood but

is revived for ‘Brady Bunch’

 

By BILL HANNA
TV Critic

 

I know you have all heard the
stories of the flooding in town and
have been out to East Lexington to
see the power of the Maury River as
itraged through our community.

You have heard about those people
who live out in the country and what
the water did to their homes.

There is also talk around town of
the problem with the lack of water.
The mayor asked townspeople to con-
serve water for a few days and there
was a sudden rush of people trying to
get their laundry done or taking that
last shower before the supply of clean
water was exhausted.

This seemed fairly serious at the

Compiled by Marie Kothman

 

 

 

 

ee ee

  
 

e = ’ a
é Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered 14
eee £
4 $9 OFF you He $4 oF :
B sz. off any large pizza me z
* or $1 off any medium, In- +
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
; Pizza! Hurry; offer ex- 600 E. Nelson st.
pires soon. One coupon +H Lexington, Va
per party per tat : :
gp prparyeervetat’ SEMUC, — Acz7000" “*
See, '
4 h redempt j H 4
11-30-85 #
0 et et

Your message here

Call 463-8581

$6

 

 

 

 

We Make

Lexington

Beautiful

165 South Main Street

463-9152

 

 

time, but it was fun with people get-
ting some excitement or having some
great stories to call home about.

Then the serious occurred. Some-
where around noon Tuesday, the
television ceased to function. At first,
it was thought that this was just a
temporary outage that would be fix-
ed in a matter of minutes, and people
continued to stare at the picture
tubes that transmitted nothing but
snow and that irritating sound of
static.

Televisions probably remained on
for at least five minutes as people
began to wonder whether this was to
be more than just a temporary set-
back.

Soon, even loyal watchers began to
reluctantly admit that continued
viewing was fruitless and the sets
slowly were turned off. Sure, some
went back to turn the television on
every ten minutes or so to see if they
could salvage what was left of their
favorite soap opera, but there was no
success.

Some now began to grope for possi-
ble ideas of what could occupy the re-
mainder of the day. Maybe a little
shopping or cleaning up around the
house would pass the time. Others
made plans for a card game or even
brought out that Monopoly board sit-
ting in the closet. Radios were also an
option.

People wondered what their grand-
parents did in their spare time before
that magical day when the television
was invented, and were thankful
about one thing — this had not occur-
red during Monday night’s football
game.

Sometime that afternoon, the fami-
ly friend had returned and every
loyal viewer rejoiced to see that ‘‘The
Brady Bunch’’ was on and it was the
episode where the family takes that
memorable trip to Hawaii. The crisis
had ended.

Now, let’s take a look at what’s go-
ing on in TV.

My folks not being in town last
weekend, I got a chance to watch a
show I had heard some about, but
never had a chance to watch:
“Misfits of Science.”

Although, I only caught the last 20
minutes of the show, I got a good idea
of its quality.

The plot was about a Polynesian
guy who had ventured thousands of
miles across the Pacific in a small
boat to put an idol on the Space Shut-
tle about to be launched. He ends up
meeting the Misfits and they decide
to help him in his quest.

In the end, one of the Misfits ap-
peals to a Space Shuttle official about

the plight of the Polynesian and how
harmless the small idol would be to
the mission. The Misfits had brought
about a happy ending, but not before
they got to use some of their powers.

Even if I watched the first half of
the show, I still think I would dislike
it. The whole show seems just a bit
too silly and would probably do much
better opposite something like ‘The
Scooby-Doo’’ cartoon on Saturday
morning.

Now for the highlights...

Friday- One of Stephen King’s
novels comes to the screen tomorrow
as Channel 12 shows ‘‘Carrie’’ at 8.

Saturday- It is a good day for John
Wayne fans as Duke appears in three
films. Channel 12 will show two in a
row starting at noon with ‘‘The Fight-
ing Seabees’’ followed by ‘‘Cahill,
United States Marshall.”’ A switch to
CBN (Channel 2) that night at 8 will
be rewarded with “The Fighting
Kentukian,” assuming you can put
up with the religious commercials.

Saturday night also will have the
network premiere of ‘‘Risky Busi-
ness” on CBS at 9.

The return of “Saturday Night
Live” is also slated for 11:30 that
night on NBC. It will introduce
another new cast and mark the re-
turn of Lorne Michaels, the show’s
creator. Madonna will be the host.

Sunday- Channel 5 monopolizes the
highlights of the day, starting at
noon. A childhood favorite adapted
from the book by E.B. White returns
with the motion picture, ‘‘Charlotte’s
Web.” As usual, Channel 5 also has a
good movie line-up from 4 until 8.
First, Anthony Hopkins stars in
“Magic,”’ a thriller about a ventrilo-
quist’s dummy. This is followed by
another thriller starring Linda Blair
in ‘Hell Night.”’

Now, a few closing notes. ABC has
gambled that America will like the
mini-series ‘‘North and South’, and
has already begun work on ‘‘North
and South, Book II’, which will be
aired in April.

Also, Mary Lou Retton has turned
her Olympic success into a financial
success as ‘‘that winning smile” we
see so much of on ads will give her an
estimated income of over $1 million
this year.

Finally, my respects to Phil Sil-
vers, who died last week at the age of
73. Silvers brought his comedy to the
character of Master Sgt. Ernie Bilko
for five seasons on CBS in the late fif-
ties.

Silvers helped the show win three
Emmy Awards in its five-year run:
two for best comedy show and one for
himself as best actor in a comedy
series. Sergeant Bilko can still be
seen in some cities, probably at some
obscure hour, but it is worth a look.

presents
Mel Gibson
as Mad Max

THE ROAD WARRIOR

Thursday and Friday - 8:30 p.m.
GHQ - Free Popcorn!
Sunday
7:00 and 9:30 p.m. - Student Center Rm. 108
Admission $2

 

 

ap

 

 

 
