a é w

*

-

*

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sports

Gridders sting

Yellowjackets
Page 9

 

Ouch!

ROTC holds

 

Bloodmobile title
Page 8

 

 

Your Homecoming weather

 

 

Che King-tum Phi

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 5 WASHI

NGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Cloudy tomorrow, chance
of showers Saturday, Sunday

 

OCTOBER 10, 1985

 

 

Generai
Notes

 

 

Frameup?

On Tuesday, Oct. 1, someone
removed a limited edition water
polo poster, given by the Aquatics
Program, from the wall in the
GHQ Tavern. If this poster is
returned by Saturday, Oct. 12, no
questions will be asked. Food Ser-
vice Director Jerry Darrell says
that if the poster is not returned,
appropriate action will be taken to
learn the identity of the person
responsible and the necessary
disciplinary action will be taken.

Arachnids

A biology film presentation of
“Spiders and Their Webs’’ will be
shown today at 5 p.m. in Parmly
Hall, Room 305. The film will be
followed by a 10-minute discussion
led by Professor L.R. Emmons.
Refreshments sponsored by the
Washington and Lee Biology
Forum, will be available at 4:45
p.m.

Parking info

Buildings and Grounds asks all
students attending the Romantics
concert to enter the pavilion area
from Route 60 by way of Liberty
Hall and park in the grass fields.
When the concert is over, please
exit via the Woods Creek road.

SR-C and SRO

Sophie Roper-Curzon, the re-
cent winner of the British Piano
Makers’ trophy for the outstan-
ding young pianist in Great Bri-
tian, will make her American
debut in a concert at Lee Chapel
at8 p.m. on Oct. 17.

United effort

The second annual United Way
Concert, organized by the Delta
Tau Delta fraternity, will be held
in the General Headquarters
Tavern on Friday, Oct. 25 at &
p.m. The concert, featuring sever-
al Washington and Lee graduates;
will include music by Tim Eddy,
Wildgrass, Heinsohn and Day,
Rooster Ruley and the New Grass
Connection, and the Stains. There
is a $3 cover charge. All the musi-
cians are donating their time, so
all proceeds will go to the local
United Way Chapter.

Two for Who’s Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current under-
graduate senior class for selection
to ‘‘Who’s Who Among Students in
American Colleges and Univer-
sities’ may do so by submittin
the name and qualifications o:
that student to the Office of the
Dean of Students in Payne Hall,
Room 6, by Oct. 14.

Criteria for selection to ‘‘Who’s
Who”’ include scholarship, par-
ticipation and leadership in
academic and extracurricular ac-
tivities, citizenship and service to
Washington and Lee, and poten-
tial for future achievement.

The invisible hand

All Students are invited to the
introductory meeting of the
Association of Collegiate En-
trepreneurs of Washington and
Lee Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the
Commerce School, Room 321.

Smile now, please

Any seniors who have not made
an appointment for a Calyx photo,
please sign up in the Co-op. Pic-
tures will be taken Oct. 14 through
Oct. 25

Freshman elections

Freshman elections will be held
Monday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in
Graham-Lees quad and Davis
quad.

General info

“General Notes” are run as a
public service by The Ring-tum
Phi. To publicize your non-profit
organization’s event, fill out a
“General Notes” request form
and return it to the Ring-tum Phi
mailbox, upstairs in the Universi-
ty Center, by 1 p.m, Tuesday of
the week it is to be run. Forms are
available in Carol Calkins’ office
(Carole Chappell’s old office) in
the University Center,

 

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

When he becomes associate dean of
the college next fall, Thomas Wil-
liams will spend less time in the
classroom — and that will be the
least attractive part of his new job,
the associate professor of physics
said Tuesday.

What is most attractive, Williams
said, is the chance to work closely
with some ‘‘very impressive ad-
ministrators,’ President John D.
Wilson and Dean of the College John
W. Elrod.

On July 1, Williams will assume the
title now held by Pamela H. Simpson,
who will return to teaching art

ABC planning
a spot-check

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

 

An Alcohol Beverage Control
board agent plans to spot-check
Saturday’s pre-game Homecom-
ing party for ‘‘blatant” liquor law
violations, a University official
said.

Sponsored by the Alumni Assoc-
iation, the ‘“‘Pre-Game Warmup”’
will be on New Alumni Field from
11:15 a.m. to 1:15 p.m.

“Pm coming,’ ’’ Food Service
Director Gerald F. Darrell quoted
an ABC agent as saying by tele-
phone this week. ‘‘ ‘I will be there
or one of my agents will be
there.’ ”’

Joseph R. Hall, assistant spec-
ial agent in charge of the 17-coun-
ty ABC district that includes Lex-
ington, said he was unable to con-
firm the report.

“We don’t normally notify peo-
ple that we’re going to check on
them, if we’re going to do it,’”’ Hall
said.

Hall said the banquet license is-
sued for Saturday’s event states
that only beer may be sold and
that no other alcoholic beverages
may be brought onto the field. “In
other words, no brown bagging,”’
he said.

Darrell said the school will sell
Miller and Miller Lite beer for $1 a
can and that the age of purchasers
will be checked.

“T think he’s trying to make it
work for us,’’ Darrell said of the
ABC official. ‘‘I don’t think they
want to find anything, but they’re
not going to turn their heads,
either.’’

“They've been very fair,’’ he
continued. ‘‘What they’re looking
for is blatant violations of the
law,’ such as bottles of hard li
quor or beer being purchased for

 

 

underage students

      

Take a number

About 50 freshmen packed the Executve Committee Council representa
room in the University Center Monday night for a meet-
ing of candidates for freshman class offices. A total of 49
freshmen are running for four positions: EC representa-
tive, class president and vice president, and University held Thursday.

Williams to succeed Simpson

history full time.

Williams, who said he enjoys work-
ing in the classroom, will continue to
teach one physics course each term.

Williams said the responsibilities
he takes on for three years will be dif-
ferent from those Simpson has. ‘I
think there will be some shifting of
duties,” he said.

For example, students who want to
transfer credits from other schools
next fall probably will deal with Scott
Dittman, who became University
registrar in August. The associate
dean nowhandles such request, '
Williams said, but Dittman has ex-
perience with the procedures and will
most likely begin handling them.

Williams said the University’s two
new assistant deans, Anece McCloud

 

Freshmen David Grove, Dale Haines and Mike Me-
Clung (left to right) work on a hall’s banner for Satur-

Inside...

~Photographs of the candidates
Homecoming Queen plus brief profil
each by Jim Strader. Page 6.

yw The 1986 Honda Civic that will be ra

beginning this weekend. Tickets for the d

Page 7.
best-decorated bedsheet at Saturday's

Alumni Association. Page 7.
~The “Five-Star Generals’ in town

Page 7.
~A preview of the Romanitics’ “

Our critic finds Romantics’ latest al

 

off at January’s Superdance will be on display

~ The freshman dormitories are gearing up
for a contest to see what hall can display the

ball game. The prize: Domino’s Pizza on the
weekend don’t have anything to do with the

Virginia Military Institute — they belong to
Washington and Lee and have for a long time.

powered rock-and-roll show” in the Student
Activities Pavilion tomorrow night. Page 11.

‘Rhythm Romance,” has neither. Page 11.

 

 

By David Sprunt

tive. The 49 — 13 of whom are women

— represent about double the amount that ran last year,
according to Voting Regulations Board Chairman John
Scannapieco. Elections are Monday and run-offs will be

and Anne Schroer, might also take
over part of Simpson’s responsibili-
ties.

Shifting duties will leave time for
Williams to focus on other projects,
“The job wiil evolve...and build itself
in a certain way while I’m there,” he
said.

In particular, Williams said he will
begin securing grants for faculty
development from national institu-
tions. Professors will have access to
these funds for research that ad-
ministrators approve.

Counseling students interested in
Fulbright Scholarships, Rhodes
Scholarships and similar programs
is also the responsibility of the

OSee Dean, Page 8

NCAA proposal

could decide
Wa&L lax status

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

The perennial question of whether
Washington and Lee lacrosse should
drop from Division I to Division III
may become moot if an NCAA propo-
sal to prohibit institutions from com-
peting in more than one division is
adopted.

The legislation, which faces a pre-
liminary hurdle Tuesday and could
be passed as soon as January, would
force W&L and all other National Col-
legiate Athletic Association member
institutions to commit across-the-
board to one division by September
1989.

Under present rules, a school com-
petes in one of three divisions, but
also may play in a higher or lower
division in one sport.

W&L Athletic Director William D.
McHenry said that if the proposal is
adopted by the NCAA, W&L ‘“‘would
look to develop a Division III pro-
gram as quickly as possible.’’ The
normal yearly evaluation of the pro-
gram would remain if the resolution
is not adopted, he said.

McHenry Said he has already re-
ceived several letters from college
presidents urging his support in the
upcoming debate.

“There is a lot of opposition,” he
said. ‘Personally, it would probably
be the best for us.”’

Under its Division III philosopy,
W&L offers no athletic scholarships
in any sport, but its lacrosse team
still chooses to compete in Division I,
where scholarships are allowed.

Three consecutive losing lacrosse
seasons have kept alive the debate
over whether W&L is out of its league
by competing in Division I.

The proposed legislation was tenta-
tively sponsored in August by the
NCAA Council, a 44-member rule-
making body that reviews proposals
for consideration by the full member-
ship at its annual January conven-
tion.

The Council will review its entire
agenda of sponsored legislation dur-
ing meetings next week in New
Orleans, according to Division III
Steering Committee Vice President
Elizabeth Kruczek, a member of the
Council and the NCAA Administra-
tive Committee, which brought the
a to the attention of the Coun-
cil.

“Nothing is in cement until the Oct-
ober Council meeting,’ Krucek said
adding that arguments are being
made on both sides of the proposal.

See Lax, Page 4

Correction

The cumulative amount of

deficit spending by student
organizations last year was mis-
stated in last week’s issue of The
Ring-tum Phi. The Student Activi-
ties Board and five other organi-

zations overspent their budgets by
more than $14,000, but a combina-
tion of Executive Committee
reserve funds and surpluses by
other groups limited the overall
shortfall to $2,365.

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

day’s Homecoming football game. All the freshman
halls compete for a $75 pizza feast. See story, Page 7.

 

Homecoming lineup

for TOMORROW

es of

4:15 p.m. The John Randoph Tucker Lecture by Robert B. Stevens,
president of Haverford College, at Lewis Hall.

ffled 5 p.m. Concert by acoustic guitarists Eric Heinsohn ('84) and Roger

Day (85) on the lawn in front of Lee Chapel, sponsored by the Minority

raw- | Student Association. In case of rain, will be held in General Head-

ing will go on sale at the Homecoming game. quarters.

9 p.m. Student Activities Board Concert, Picture This and the
Romantics, at the Student Activities Pavilion. Tickets $8 each

foot- SATURDAY

9:30 a.m. The Lee Chapel bells toll 19 times in recognition of the

this | 115th anniversary of Robert E. Lee’s death.

high- | Field.

bum, Pavilion

 

10:30 a.m. Student concert in Lee Chapel: Rob Vienneau (’87),
piano; David Andrews (’87), violin; William Runzer (’89), clarinet;
Bruin Richardson (87), baritone; Cathleen Tiernan (’89), soprano

11:30 a.m, Cross country meet against Catholic University. Wilson

11:30 a.m, to 1:15 p.m. Pre-game party with Dixieland band ‘‘Easy
Listening.’’ New Alumni Field. In case of rain, in Student Activities

1:30 p.m, Football game against Maryville College. Wilson Field

Homecoming: Pre-game, mid-game and more

19 in running
for ’85 crown

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

 

Each autumn one woman comes
to Lexington on a certain Satur-
day afternoon and leaves with the
glory of the crown and. the title
that accompanies her selé&tien as
Homecoming Queen. \

This fall, 17 candidates Will
come to Lexington the same as
always, but two will already be
here — they are registered as
Washington and Lee students, one
a freshman, the other an ex-
change student.

One of the candidates has
graduated from college, four are
seniors, five are juniors. There
are six sophomores and _ three
freshmen. Hollins leads the way
among area women’s colleges
with eight students as candidates,
Sweet Briar is next with four
followed by Randolph-Macon
Woman's with two. Mary Bald
win, Wake Forest, and Tidewater
Community College each have one
candidate entered

The competition for the crown
will be conducted in the same
manner as it has been in the past
— a five-member panel will inte:
view the women on a variety of
topics

The panel members are Pro
fessor B.S. Stephenson, chairman,
Carole K. Chappell, M. Kirkland
Follo, Agnes K. Gilmore, and Pro
fessor Edward B. Hamer. They
will meet tomorrow afternoon in
the Student Center for about three
hours to question the candidates

The questions will range from
academics to each _ potential
queen’s background, said Chap
pell. The answers themselves are
not as important, she said, as are
things such as the candidate’s
poise in answering, her sensitivity
and intelligence

 

 

L- neeses coca erties entices
OPINION
SAB & GHQ

At Monday night’s Executive Committee meeting, Jerry
Darrell, food services director, asked for help. Not just a lit-
tle help, but a matter of life and death for one of the campus’s
main attractions — the GHQ (formerly Cockpit) Tavern.
Specifically, he asked the EC to do whatever it could to urge
the Student Activities Board to sponsor bands more frequent-
ly in the GHQ. But along with his plea for assistance came a
bleak prediction of things to come.

Darrell’s case is well-reasoned. The GHQ has fallen on
hard times in recent years. While it once was the “happy”
place on campus where every hour seemed to be a “‘happy
hour,”’ the changes in drinking laws have put a damper on the
festive spirit. Highly profitable alcohol sales no longer ac-
count for as great a percentage of the tavern’s revenues as
they once did. Few freshmen can drink this year, and next
year, no freshmen will be able to consume alcohol at the GHQ
without running the risk of the GHQ losing its license.

With the decrease in overall revenue from the sale of beer,
the tavern has had to emphasize and upgrade its restaurant
atmosphere. Its menus — both lunch and dinner — have un-
dergone drastic changes, and just this past week the GHQ in-
stituted its contract dinner plan allowing students to eat
there instead of in the Dining Hall. Judging by the first
night’s crowd taking advantage of the plan, it should prove
profitable.

But the concern Darrell addressed to the EC went further
than the changes so far in the GHQ. He predicted that the
Alcohol Beverage Control Board would be enforcing drinking
rules more strictly this year, especially during the GHQ’s
heaviest traffic time Wednesday nights, when a live band is
featured and students are ‘‘packed and stacked’ into the
small tavern area. The fire chief, concerned with overcrowd-
ing, has asked that the number of students allowed into the
GHQ on Wednesday nights be lowered. The bottom line ac-
cording to Darrell: With fewer students on Wednesday nights
at the GHQ and with even fewer of the students entering be-
ing able to drink, prospects for profitability look bleak. His
solution: ask the SAB to sponsor bands on Friday or Saturday
nights once or twice a month and help the GHQ while also
providing entertainment for the student body. As Darrell
commented, “‘The GH@Q is no longer a one-night-a-week bar.”’

But Darrell’s appearance at the meeting Monday evening
also raised another point that must be addressed. Despite in-
creased enforcement by ABC officials of the drinking laws,
more and more students — especially freshmen — are going
to fraternity parties to get their alcohol — free alcohol, since
most fraternities do not check their identifications to ensure

compliance with drinking laws. Thus, they are not drinking .

at the GHQ, where IDs are checked and beers cost money.
This problem, Darrell warned, might mean the closing of the
GHQ.

Several steps need to be taken. First, the interfraternity
Council and its adviser need to clamp down on fraternity
checking of IDs. As the ABC steps up its efforts to discover
violations, fraternities will come under closer scrutiny.
Secondly, the SAB ought to get together with Darrell and the
GHQ management to sponor more entertainment. The GHQ
is too much a part of the campus to let it slip away without a
struggle.

All or something?

It is one of those situations everyone dreads — all or
nothing. Unfortunately, some student groups are getting
nothing, and it is hurting the school as well as the individuals
involved.

The controversy centers around the requests for student
body funding by four athletic clubs — the Fencing, Rugby,
Ice Hockey, and Ski clubs. The Executive Committee, in
handing down its budget allotments, asked the groups to ap-
proach the Athletic Department for additional funding or
support in the form of old uniforms, equipment, practice
areas or money. Athletic Director William McHenry has
been helpful in providing support in the past, but his hands
are tied in the extent of that aid by a curious rule granting full
aid (i.e., the club becomes a varsity sport with a coach
and regular practices) or nothing (no shirts, no equipment).

The problem the rule creates is obvious. Many clubs face
great expenses in their schedules. Referees need to be paid;
uniforms need to be acquired; equipment must be bought.
Clubs can and do raise some funds on their own. Some re-
quire dues to cover fixed costs for the clubs, and some, like
all of the athletic teams, hold fundraising events. But the ex-
penses cannot be met all the way around despite the effort.

Therein lies the rub. Students who have taken the initiative
to form a group, create a schedule with other area clubs or
teams cannot complete their plans because the school cannot
back them. Because the team is not a recognized athletic or-
ganization, it cannot be covered by school insurance, coach-
ed by a school-paid coach, or given school equipment. In the
long run, that means fewer people will hear of the school.

The current ‘‘all or nothing’’ rule needs examination. It
stands out as an unnecessary obstacle for campus organiza-
tions that need some help but who cannot, for mostly finan-
cial reasons, stand on their own. It is the University that is
hurt by the rule — at the expense of students’ talents going
unnoticed and even wasted. The University Athletic Commit-
tee, in setting its agenda for this year, must consider this rule
pall hurts the school and students too much to go un-
noticed.

Correction

An author of ‘‘A Valediction:
Forbidding learning’ on last
week’s Opinion page was

misidentified. The writers were
Scott Henderson and Mike
McAlevey.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

 

 

 

4

*

s+ >-_*

 

 

 

Yet another view on coeducation

 

MY VIEW
By Maureen Murphy

 

Now that we are settling into our
second month here in Beautiful Lex-
ington, getting into the grind of

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

Two weeks ago I picked up a
copy of The Ring-tum Phi, eagerly
looking forward to a column (that
I had written) on the editorial
page. Alas, my ego was not to
receive the boost I had thought it
would. Instead, my eye was ar-
rested by a letter to the editor by
James D. Crutchfield, a second-
year law student.

Crutchfield’s letter was on a
subject important to us all
— namely, the Honor System. He
theorized that the Honor System
was being choked by a set of rules
imposed by the faculty on the Stu-
dent Control Committee. How-
ever, Crutchfield said, we stu-
dents had brought these rules
down on ourselves, thanks to our
continuing toleration of behavior
clearly contrary to the Honor
Code.

I was disturbed by Crutchfield’s
statements, and at first I thought
he must surely be wrong. The
more I ponder his ideas, though,
the more I become convinced that
he is absolutely correct. The
Honor System is dying, and we
are doing nothing to prolong its
life.

We all know of dishonorable
things done on this campus that,
for one reason or another, were
never reported. No honor system
can hope to root out all offenses
that may occur. However, our
Honor System has come to be
plagued by cases where large
groups of people, such as frater-
nities, will fully violate the Honor
System and excuse their behavior
with the oft-heard expression,
“Boys will be boys.’’ I know of
several examples of this kind of
behavior, but the most telling
occurred three years ago, when I
was but a freshman.

As part of a fraternity scaven-
ger hunt, a pledge drove to Wash-
ington and stole one of the fifty
flags flying around the Washing-
ion Monument, When he recut ucu
to Lexington, with purloined Old
Glory in hand, he was treated as
the Man of the Hour.

If our Honor System were a tru-
ly healthy one, this student would
not have been encouraged to com-
mit such a crime, and other stu-

 

academics (or avoiding it, as the
case may be), I, too, join the ranks of
those who feel compelled to analyze

our somewhat unique situation.

In my opinion, coeducation is going
rather well. Not perfectly, but rather
well. One of the problems around
here is that no one is willing to admit
that things are not perfect. The facul-
ty and staff have gone to great ex-

 

Honor System:
Rest in peace?

dents would not have cheered the
carrying out of this fraternity mis-
sion.

This incident is representative
of the kind of behavior that has
prompted the faculty and the SCC
to promulgate all the new rules.
After all, if we can no longer be
trusted to behave properly on our
own, somebody must do it for us.

Apparently, then, our Honor
System is on its deathbed. But
there is still a short period of time
left in which we can save it. All we
have to dois reform. If our behav-
ior on weekends is no longer like
that of demented 15-year-olds
downing their first six-packs; if
instances of theft and other misbe-
havior are reduced; if we take the
convicted among us, whether 4.0
students or star football players,
and throw them the hell out of
here so that they no longer dishon-
or us or this institution by their
presence, we just might convince
the faculty that we are capable of
acting like gentlemen and
gentlewomen after all.

It is said that the danger of a
permissive society is that people
will keep pushing the limits of
behavior, wanting ever more free-
dom, until the liberty they have
enjoyed is snatched away before
their very eyes. I think we are in
that position right now.

We have long had the freedom
to make our own rules and behave
as we pleased within the bounds of
the only stricture placed upon us:
that we would act like gentlemen.
Now, we live under a set of rules
just like those of any other
college. In other words, we have
lost the freedom that made us ex-
ceptional amongst universities.

Crutchfield’s letter made me

angry that we could all have been ,

so blind and so insensitive that we
could not see where the Honor
System might end up. At last I
was jolted out of the apathy with
which I have long observed dis-
cussions about the Honor System.
For this I thank him.

Crutchfield laid out the pro-
blems besetting our Honor System
far more eloquently than I. How-
ever, perhaps this repetition of the
dangers can force some people to
face facts: The Honor System is
almost gone, and we must act now
or see it die. A tine iegacy for
future classes that would be.

Given our past failures, our past
apathy, and our past behavior
you will forgive me if I hold out
very little hope for recovery.
R.LP.

 

tremes to see that coeducation is in-
stituted as perfectly as possible, and
we are both appreciative and grate-
ful. At the same time, we are being
given an enormous role to fill: the
perfectly happy, well-adjusted first
year coed. Not much to ask for, is it?
I wonder.

In general, coeducation is a tre-
mendous success, but the pressure to
be perfectly coed keeps us from open-
ly voicing those problems (large or
small) that we do encounter. We are
wary of upsetting our One-Big-
Happy-Coed-Family appearance. I
will use for example the problem con-
cerning the women’s bathrooms in G-
L dorms on weekends. Or more
specifically, the problem concerning
the use of these bathrooms by per-
sons from neighboring girl’s schools.
The main controversy arises over the
use of the showers, the “‘borrowing”
of soap and shampoo, and the length
of time these girls spend in front of
the mirrors, trying to beautify
themselves.

Now, to some people (especially
those of the male persuasion) this
may seem a petty complaint. Indeed,
if this is a major problem, we are do-
ing particularly well. When mention-
ed in mixed company, the common
response is, ‘‘Aw, poor babies, can’t
take a few more girls in your bath-
room?’’ OK, I realize that road-trip-
ping in for the weekend is one of
many long-standing traditions at this

fine institution, and yes, we can take

have to take it! These girls are not our
weekend guests — we are under no
social obligation to them. I have been
nothing less than polite to them, in
spite of their attitudes towards us,
but I don’t feel that I should have to
wait twenty minutes to take a shower
because these girls are helping them-
selves to our facilities.

So I will break this new tradition
and admit that things are not perfect
in my floor’s bathroom on weekends.
As a rent paying resident of Graham-
Lees dorm, I feel that we have the
right to be possessive about our
bathrooms and we should be able to
shower at our convenience, not a
weekend guest’s.

It may seem a small problem, but I
have heard the same complaint
among others and I am wondering
what can be done about it. It seemed
to annoy enough people to spark in-
terest of a Ring-tum Phi reporter as a
possible story, but when investi-
gated, no one was willing to be quoted
— again, the fear of not being the
perfectly content coed.

I think that we are doing a wonder-
ful job as the first coed class, break-
ing new ground and all that, but let’s
please be realistic and acknowledge
our problems and deal with them di-
rectly instead of denying their exis-
tence.

Burying tradition, social life
not reasons for coeducation

To the Editors:

I think that I speak for almost all of
Washington and Lee’s freshman
women when I say that we have been
very fortunate to receive a warm
welcome here at W&L. We are happy
to be here and we are beginning to
learn of the love that so many upper-
classmen have for this institution.
However, I would like to point out
that the 107 of us that are here did not
decide for Washington and Lee to go
coed; that decision was made by the
Board of Trustees. We did not hound
the administration into letting us
come; we applied and we were ac-
cepted.

Unfortunately, since our arrival,
there have been incidents to remind
us that we are not welcome by all. I
am not complaining; people, stu-
dents and faculty alike have bent
over backwards to help us and we are

the student body that we women have
come here to attend one of the na-
tion’s finest universities. We did not
come here solely because of the
men/women ratio. Surely you would
agree that W&L has more to offer
than that. Nor have we arrived witha
desire to smash tradition. Granted,
our mere presence marks the end of
a tradition, but we are not trying to
make this university into something
it is not. If it is your wish that the
time-honored traditions of the Uni-
versity be cherished, then share
them with the freshmen. We are
eager to learn about W&L, to feel a
part of this special place that you
take so much pride in.

Lastly, I thank you for all the sup-
port you have given this freshman
class in its first few weeks on cam-
pus.

‘ , Jennifer Bray
grateful. I only wish to gently remind Class of ’89
2 *
Che Ring-tum Phi
Beets ONE soos ks se se ectcic, Mike Allen
TI on ini cert Neh ese Cee cts t cesses eset estetiesiiiaccedics Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
Managing Editor ..........cccccccccsscccceesecsesesssssssesssases Reade Williams
Sports HAMOP ... 6. ccs cccccerseeccececcecesseescescncscseestevecsece Mike Stachura
Editorial Page Editor .........:.ccecrsescevescececssessssccseeees Nelson Patterson
News Editors 0... cccccsecscrrsrcccesececcereceeeeeesesessecs Christopher Deighan
Jim Strader

CRPIBIIIEE. oes cece sete g hehe cect edeivesesctssestecccscccsccce Chris Bowring

SAPO CCN UE CUES eS SLETS Ce sete tee es eeseeaseecssscc., Jeff Kimbeli
OOP C ee er eee eee ee ee eer eee eseetestiesesee, 4 Hank Greenberg

DEERADR PROT URES IE CTLES 1 8808 eri sy 55 ee Keri Hinrichs
Matt Coudert

John Feyrer

Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business man, but n Phi
is otherwise independent. ——

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The R

are wr
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they Se me

are to be run. This newspaper

 

 

observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

4

5

*

it, but my point is that we shouldn’t ,

¢

&

«
&
4

%
4

«
t

r

‘
e
a
°
oi
,
4

t

 

 

iT = -@

* 42 rR FF’ Of

~_ = ™ TP

i ei ee eile

 

 
 

   
  

 

   

 

BY JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

‘he Student Activities Board was
aWarded $44,000 of the student body
bytiget Thursday night, as the Ex-
ecttive Committee gave out nearly
$i%}0,000 while slashing the budget re-
qésts of several athletic clubs.

‘The EC’s report on budget deci-
sitns said the Fencing Team, Rugby
Ciaib, Ski Club and Hockey Club
regeived lower allotments ‘‘because
“e EC intends to approach the
A@letic Department and insist they
pigk up the difference.” But in Mon-
day night’s meeting, the EC reported
théit the Athletic Department can on-
ly give money to varsity teams.

UC ‘need’
in review,
dean says

 

Ry SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

»Dean of Students Lewis G. John
said this week that the ‘“‘need”’ for the
University Council will be reviewed.

sThe council’s power is only to
review and to make recommenda-
tions to the faculty. Last year, the
council served as a ‘‘sounding
board”’ for opinions and ideas for the
change to coeducation, he said.

sAlso, in the past, the council set up
the fundamental rules for student
discipline. This year, however, the
faculty has taken back the ultimate
authority of discipline, although the
Student Control Committee handles
‘dividual rulings.

One duty that is still in the Coun-
cil’s hands is the awarding of the Pin-
ney Prize, an annual undergraduate
scholarship.

At the UC’s first meeting Thurs-
day, John and senior representative
David Sprunt were elected co-chair-
men of the council. The council also
voted to support the faculty’s propo-
sql for next year’s academic calen-
dar

‘The newly-elected chairs of the
equneil, which serves as a forum
among the administrators, the facul-
ty and students, will share the posi-
tion by alternating months.

The proposed calendar was de-
seribed by Dean of the Commerce
School Edward C. Atwood Jr. as
having “no significant changes”
from this year’s. The only difference
is, that classes will begin one day
earlier in September.

*That will move the final day of fall
term exams from Dec. 20 to Dec. 19.

‘Politics Professor Craig W. Mc-
Caughrin, a faculty representative
made a counter-proposal suggesting
that classes begin two weeks earlier
with exams beginning the Monday
following Thanksgiving. That way,
he said, ‘Thanksgiving could serve
ata reading period.”

John pointed out that would mean
12 straight weeks of classes.

‘The University Handbook says the
Ug’s purpose is to give students an
involvement in the governmental
pfocess of the University and to deal
with matters concerning student af-
fairs,

‘The committee has five adminis-
tration representatives, nine faculty
representatives, and twelve student
répresentatives.

.
*

+

The EC’s attempt to find another
source of funds for athletic clubs was
sparked by a tight budget and re-
quests for about $50,000 more than
was available. Besides the SAB’s
$44,000, the other student organiza-
tions received the following:

eThe Ring-tum Phi, $15,000.

¢The Calyx, $12,000.

«Contact, $8,000.

eThe W&L Political Review, $2,400.

eThe Ariel, $2,400.

eThe Mock Convention, $200.

¢The Independent Union, $500.

eThe Minority Student Association,
$800.

*The Film Society, $1,000.

eThe Fencing Team, $500.

eThe International Club, $800.

 

The Rugby Club, $800.

eThe Ski Club, $400.

*The Hockey Club, $400.

eThe Journal of Science, $800.

*The EC’s Reserve and Expenses,
$9,605.

These amounts must be voted on
again at Monday’s EC meeting
before they become final.

The EC explained to Senior Mike
Berg, a representative from the
Fencing Team, that his group’s re-
quest of $1,500 was reduced to $500
because the EC had planned to ask
that the Athletic Department help
pay the athletic clubs’ costs.

Vice President Andrew Caruthers -

said Athletic Director William Mc-
Henry told the EC that his depart-

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

ment must abide by an ‘‘all or noth-
ing’ policy regarding the funding of
athletic clubs.

That policy — which says a club
must be a full varsity sport with total
funding or receive no funding at all
— ensures that the Athletic Depart-
ment’s insurance protects the team
from liability.

Caruthers told Berg that the stu-
dent organizations that had the
highest allotments were the ones that
affected the most people.

He said the SAB, The Ring-tum Phi
and the Calyx — the three groups
receiving the most money — reached
almost every student at some point
during the year. A group like the

Megabytes

New computer provides more memory

 

By Eric Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Tracy Williams works at a terminal on the new system in Tucker Hall

C asks athletic department for club help

Fencing Team, on the other hand,
would include 15 to 20 students at the
most.

Sophomore Representative Pat
Schaefer mentioned that some
teams, like lacrosse, sold hot dogs as
a way to produce more revenue.

The EC reported that the Athletic
Department made an offer to all of
the clubs to become varsity teams
and therefore receive total funding
pending a vote by each of the teams.

Berg said the team might vote to
become a varsity sport.

Second-year law Representative
Joel Johnston furthered the senti-
ments of the EC by saying that the
existence of these athletic clubs is

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee replaced its
computer system over the summer
with a $350,000 system that has 16
times more memory than the old

system.

The new Prime 9955 replaces the
old Harris H100, which Ruth Floyd of
the Computer Center called ‘‘ob-
solete.”’

The University had ‘essentially
outgrown the size and capacity” of
the old system, Floyd said this week.

The $350,000 price tag represents
all the hardware and software pur-
chased for the new system, but more
may be added because the system is
still in the ‘experimental and devel-
opmental stages of use by the facul-
ye

Floyd stressed that the new system
is “strictly for academic use, for
classroom use and academic resear-
ch.”’

The French Department is one of
the first academic departments to
take advantage of the new system.

“We're very excited about it,” said
Language Professor Russell Knud-
son. He and instructor Kathy Jo Ko-
berstein developed a totally inte-
grated computer program now used

 

proof that there is an athletic need
that is not being met by the Athletic
Department and therefore these
clubs should receive funding from
that department.

In other EC action, Food Service
Director Jerry Darrell asked the EC
to recommend that the SAB sponsor
more entertainment in the General
Headquarters tavern as a way of
stimulating more business for the fi-
nancially struggling tavern.

“We're going to fail down there if
we don’t get some help,” Darrell said
this Monday.

The EC responded that it would
talk to the SAB with the intention of
recommending Darrell’s request.

 

by the intermediate French class.

“We designed the exercises as a
sort of reinforcement of classroom
activities, but we’re finding that it’s a
good learning tool also.”

He credits the new programs with
changing his students’ attitudes
toward classes: ‘‘It’s fun for me to
walk in because they know that we’re
going to do something creatively,” he
said.

“There’s a difference between
communicating and acquiring skills
to communicate. The new system
gives the student the opportunity to
develop his own study habits and it
frees up class time so we can use the
language creatively.”

Knudson said he hopes to be able to
expand the program so that quizzes
can be done in the computer room on
the students’ own time.

“‘We’re making study time infinite-
ly more efficient,’’ Knudson said.

The system is also helping students
more directly. Senior Chris Lion took
advantage of the system this sum-
mer.

“IT worked a lot with politics
utilities research,”’ he said. I unders-
tand that the new system is much
better than the old configuration.”

Another student user said, “It’s
better, it’s quicker, but it takes a lit-
tle more effort’’ to learn.

 

By Eric Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi

Student operator Rob Brown works in the Computer Center

 

 

 

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Student committee appointments almost at end for EC

 

 

" Staff reports

» The Executive Committee has nearly finished mak-
ing student appointments to various student/faculty
‘committees.

Applications are being accepted in the EC room until
"Monday for membership on the Drug and Alcohol Edu-
‘cation Committee and for student representative to the

Faculty Executive Committee,

Most of the committees are created by the University

+administration, and the student body government fills
the student spots. Two new committees this year are

"the Parking Lot Committee, which will look into the
possibility of more University parking, and the Drug
and Alcohol Education Committee.

The following students have been appointed to these
‘committees:

«Student Health Committee, Pat Ferguson, Jim Au-

gustus and Paul Davey.

eCommittee on Freshman Admissions, Chris Carter
_and Bruin Richardson.

University Committee on Athletics, Chris John, Pete
’ Braden and T.J. Finnerty.

, ‘Library Advisory Committee, Alex Lopez-Duke,
Mike Aarstol and Andy Shaffer.

*Financial Aid Committee, Phil Hodges and Pat Fer-
+ guson.

*Parking Lot Committee, Paul Davey and Phil

| ' Hedges
» Faculty Committee on Courses and Degrees, Bart
Smith and Richard Hobson

 

‘
Tom

 

Durrette elected in poll

The Washington and Lee Political Review held a
mock election this week that found overwhelming sup-
port for the Republican ticket in this year’s state gover-
nor’s race.

The election, which drew 90 participants, gave
Republican candidate Wyatt Durrette 97 percent of the
vote compared with 3 percent for Democrat Gerald
Baliles.

First-year law rep chosen

First-year law student Biliy Senft was elected to
represent his class on the Executive Committee in an
election Monday, according to Student Bar Association
President Julie Gregory.

Senft joins two other law students on the committee
—second-year representative Bill Thompson and senior
representative Joel Johnston.

Lex. unemployment rate rises

The August unemployment rate for Lexington rose 1.2
percentage points over last August’s rate, according to
the preliminary report from the Virginia Employment
Commission.

Out of a workforce of 3,171 in Lexington, 2,976 were
employed, for an unemployment rate of 6.1 percent,

compared with 4.9 percent in 1984.

The Lexington-Buena Vista area, with a work force of
14,183, had an unemployment rate of 6.5 percent, up
from last year’s 6.3 percent.

Those increases compare with Virginia’s increase of
0.9 percentage points to 5.3 percent, and the national
decrease of 0.4 points to 6.9 percent.

Fiji raises $300 for cancer

The Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity raised $300 in its In-
nings for Cancer softball game last year, house Presi-
dent Gary Appel said this week.

The house took donations for a 100-inning softball
game with Pi Kappa Phi in May and recently presented
a $300 check to the American Cancer Society.

‘Taxes and University’ lecture set

Robert B. Stevens, president of Haverford College,
will deliver the 37th annual John Randolph Tucker lec-
ture at Washington and Lee on Friday.

The title of Stevens’ lecture, which is open to the
public, is ‘Tax Dollars and the Idea of a University.”
The lecture will be at 4:15 p.m. in the Moot Courtroom
of Lewis Hall.

A graduate of Oxford University with bachelor’s and
master’s degrees, Stevens received his law degree from
Yale University. He taught law at Yale from 1959 to
1976, when he was named provost and professor of law
and history at Tulane University. He was named presi-
dent of Haverford College in 1978.

Stevens is the recipient of grants from the Ford Foun-

dation, the National Endowment for the Humanities
and the Russell Sage, Rockefeller and Nuffield founda-
tions. He is the author of several books, including ‘‘In-
come Security,” ‘‘Welfare Medicine in America,” “In
Search of Justice,’’ and ‘‘Lawyers and the Courts.”

The John Randolph Tucker Lectures were establish-
ed in honor of the first Law School dean.

The Tucker Lecture series began in 1949 and has
brought many of the nation’s eminent jurists, practic-
ing attorneys and legal educators to campus. The first
Tucker Lecture was delivered by John W. Davis, the
well-known Wall Street lawyer who was also former
ambassador to. Great Britian and the 1924 Democratic
presidential nominee.

Chapel bell to toll for Lee

Washington and Lee will again honor one of its
namesakes, former University President Robert E.
Lee, on the anniversary of his death.

On Saturday at 9:30 a.m., the day and time Lee died
115 years ago, the tower bell in Lee Chapel will toll 19
times — the equivalent of 19-gun salute that Lee would
rate by today’s standards. This year’s ringing of the
bell coincides with W&L’s annual homecoming activi-
ties.

This is the second consecutive year Lee has been ho-
nored by such a fashion. The idea, proposed last year by
Lee Chapel Director Robert C. Peniston, is a deviation
from University policy that says the Chapel bell should
not be rung except on Sundays, since it might disturb
classes and study.

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

 

Ticked

Clock systems not on time
so neither are the students

 

By JOEL MILLER
Staff Reporter

Students who are released from class by a bell at three

minutes until the hour, then, have less than the allotted
five minutes to get to their next class until the Lee

 

Washington and Lee students have been disproving
Einstein’s theory of relativity in the first few weeks of

school.

Instead of finding that time slows down as they in-
crease speed, students are finding themselves running
faster between classes and having less time to get there.

Fortunately, the problem is explainable without a
single formula. The answer, according to Assistant
Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds W. Scott
Beebe, is that W&L has two separate systems of bells.

The class bell, which has been observed to be ringing
at three minutes until the hour rather than five minutes
until, is separate from the bell in Lee Chapel, which tolls

the hour.

harder to adjust.

Chapel bell rings to mark the hour

“This is the first we’ve heard of it,’ Beebe said this
week. ‘‘We’ll look into the matter.”

He said it would be a simple problem to fix if it is the
class bell that is off, but the Lee Chapel bells would be

“The Lee Chapel clock uses its own system, and it’s a
very old system,”’ Beebe said.

University Proctor Charles ‘‘Murph’’ Murray said the
bells have been set electronically since he has been at
the University — more than 26 years.

The bells are set in Washington Hall, Murray said, and
are taken care of by W&L electricians.

Murray said he had not noticed a problem with the
bells because he is usually too far away to hear them.

 

oe

i

Sa |

a

|

\ A
=

, {He
) Whe

Ps

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Bill Webb was one of two students debating on the American side yesterday

British debaters blast U.S. missiles

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Two British debaters called U.S.
nuclear missiles located in Britain an
“affront to our sovereignty,” in an
audience-style debate last night in
Lee Chapel. :

Michael Hall of New College, Ox-

* ford, and David Lock of Jesus Col-
lege, Cambridge, are part of a Bri-
tish debate team that is touring 20
U.S. schools.

Arguing against the British propo-
sal were junior Rick Graves and
freshman Bill Webb.

Much of the British argument cen-
tered on the fact that they had no con-
trol over the U.S. missiles in their
country.

“We are tired of being an Ameri-
can vassal,” Hall said.

Two other reasons were also given
for the removal of the missiles. .

' According to Lock, the missiles en-

courage the notion that a limited

nuclear war is possible, which endan-
gers the United States, as well as the
entire European community.

‘‘We cannot have a limited nuclear
war,”’ he stressed.

Lock’s third reason was that Bri-
tain has a multitude of Soviet spies
who would have easy access to Amer-
ican technical secrets.

“If you want to tell the Russians
your secrets, ship them to Britain,”
he said.

On the opposing side, Webb accus-

ed the Britains of wanting ‘‘to have,

everything both ways.” He said that
the English want the protection the
United States provides, but that they
do not want to accept the conse-
quences.

Graves made the point that if the
U.S. presence in Britain and Europe
were removed, each European coun-
try would be left on its own. Russia
would then be able to take over the
continent one country at a time.

In trying to find fault in Britain’s
reasoning, Graves reminded the au-

dience of British Prime Minister
Neville Chamberlain, whose strategy
of appeasement before World War IT
looked great on paper, but was disas-
trous in actual use.

The debate was very humorous at
times, and heckling from the au-
dience was encouraged.

While speaking of the flow of Amer-
ican culture into Britain, which is
generally disliked by people there,
Hall said, “‘If we get rid of missiles,

we would like to keep ‘Dynasty.’ ”’

After referring to a quotation from
W&L History Professor Jefferson D.
Futch, Graves asked, ‘‘And who’s go-
ing to argue with Futch?”’

Both British debaters made light of
Graves’ question, with Lock saying,
“Between Lenin and Futch, we’ve
kind of got the spectrum covered.”’

Hall followed later with, ‘I have to
disagree with so honored a professor
as Jefferson Davis Fletch III.”

“Futch!’’ yelled several members
of the audience.

E

-_— a eee ee

House restoration

The Joella and Stewart Morris House, located just off
the Colonnade, is being restored with a $250,000 donation
from the Morrisses, of Houston, Texas. The house, which
was built in 1842 at an approximate cost of $3,500, will be

 
   

 

By Eric Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi

used as a University guest house, a seminar center, and
a location for some University artwork. Ben Chapman,
progress coordinator for the Reeves Center, has been
named director of the Morris House.

 

Lax

 

() Continued from Page 1

Kruczek said she expects the Coun-
cil to vote on its reconsideration of
the proposal on Tuesday. She indi-
cated that although there is a chance
that the proposal will be voted down
by the Council, it still could come
before the convention in January if at
least six member institutions decide
to sponsor it.

Kruczek said she has received cor-
respondence from a number of
schools with such an interest, but
said she was not sure if they would
still be interested if the proposal
were voted down by the Council.

Tom Kinder, athletic director at
Bridgewater College and district
representative to the Division III
steering committee, said the Council
can decide not to bring up the pro-
posal at the convention.

“Tt depends on the lobbying that
has been done,” he said. He indi-
cated, however, that he thinks the
proposal will be presented to the
whole convention in January.

Of those interviewed, only Univer-
sity of Virginia Athletic Director
Dick Schultz speculated on the fate of
the proposal. “I feel the chances of
this passing are very slim. I'd really
be surprised to see it pass,” he said,
indicating that many strong Division
I basketball programs take advan-
tage of the NCAA’s multi-divisional
opportunities and would be unwilling
to relinquish those opportunities.

At Johns Hopkins University,
where lacrosse is played on the
scholarship level in the middle of an
otherwise Division III philosophy,
Athletic Director Robert Scott said
he hopes the proposal never even
reaches the convention floor.

“It could, in effect, kill our pro-
gram,” Scott said, explaining that a
forced move in either direction would

 

 

 

 

DUKE

THE FUQUA
SCHOOL
OF BUSINESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Fuqua School of Business at Duke
University offers one of the finest available
opportunities for unsurpassed professional
management training. We are interested in
men and women who have proven aca-
demic, leadership, and social abilities.

Michael Hostetler
Director of Admissions

of the Fuqua School
will be on campus

Thursday, October 24

Appointment information may be obtained
by contacting:

Office of Career Development
and Placement

 

 

  

 

 
 

BECKY’S COUNTRY CASUALS
“Where Good Taste Never Goes Out of Style”’

2127 Magnolia Avenue
Buena Vista, Virginia
24416

Phone: (703) 261-3140

BECKY FAIRCHILD

25% Off

Oct. 10-12

 

 

 

 

ed

a
[_————

 

 

—Presents

 

-— Homecoming Special

 

--$1.00 off every service

 

Cuts, Perms, Shampoo,
i eee

 

| -$1.00 off all nucleic A shampoos,
|____ conditioners, glaze.

 

jones A,

the luxury shop
_— without the luxury price.

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 block from W&L, 25 N. Main St.,
Open Tues.
Thurs. evening by appointment
Sat., 9-2
463-2566

-Fri., 9-5

 

 

  
        
   
    
   
 
  
   
 
   
   
 

misplace one or all the teams in his
program.

The proposal has encountered such
heated words ever since the Council
announced its sponsorship of the
legislation in August. But this is
nothing new, according to Virginia’s
Schultz.

“‘Whenever there’s been talk about
restructuring,” he said, ‘‘it’s always
been a very emotional issue,’ he
said. Schultz pointed to the forma-
tion of the College Football Associa-
tion, an organization of college foot-
ball coaches and teams that broke
with the NCAA in 1983 to negotiate a
separate television contract, as an
example of the tension such debate
can bring.

McHenry sees a problem with the
present system, which allows Divi-
sion III institutions to give scholar-
ships and compete in Division I in one
sport. This system actually restricts
a student-athlete’s right to choose, he
said.

Under NCAA regulations, McHen-
ry explained, athletes under scholar-
ship can only participate in the sport
for which they receive financial
assistance, a situation he calls unfair
to the outstanding, multi-sport stu-
dent-athlete.

“That’s simply contrary to the Di-
vision III philosophy,” he said. He
explained that unlike most institu-
tions that choose to ‘‘play up,’ W&L
maintains a Division III, no-scholar-
ship philosophy even in Division I.

Kruczek echoed that ‘Division III
philosophy” sentiment. ‘‘Some are
saying that this is preferential treat-
ment for these athletes,” she said.

McHenry said that across-the-
board Division I programs “are sick

and tired of having Division III peo-
ple come up in one sport.... Anybody
can sink all their money in one
sport,”’ indicating that while the
NCAA does limit the number of schol-
arships per sport, it does not regulate
the total amount of money spent by
the school on the sport.

Kruczek noted, however, that
money comes into play as a reason to
keep things as they are.

She said that if passed, the mea-
sure ‘‘would be detrimental to many
of the institutions affected,’’ pointing
to the fact that in many instances the
one Division I sport a college spon-
sors is often the only revenue-produc-
ing sport at an institution and actual-
ly ends up supporting the other sports
in the program.

Kruczek also explained that an
across-the-board reclassification
might cause some logistical pro-
blems for an institution. For exam-
ple, if W&L were to commit to Divi-
sion III, and therefore have to sched-
ule more than half its games with
Division III programs, the lack of
worthy opponents in the immediate
area could force greater travel ex-
penditures than W&L has as a Divi-
sion I program.

Scott of Hopkins also noted that
when the NCAA took over control of
women’s sports from the Association
of Intercollegiate Athletics for Wo-
men, it provided for multi-divisional
opportunities for women. The
possibility that these would be taken
away has provoked opposition from a
number of women’s programs.

Scott sees no hope for tbe resolu-
tion.

“There have been a half dozen or
so arguments used to support this
proposal,’’ Scott said, ‘‘but none are
really right, where you can say,
‘Hey, this is an unfair advantage.’ It
just doesn’t seem like there’d be a
real advantage in having it.’’

Schultz at Virginia called the pro-
posal ahead of its time. He said he ex-
pects that within three to five years,
the NCAA will adopt a ‘‘federation”’
system, where instead of one body
ruling over three divisions whose
interests often conflict, the NCAA
would change to a system of three
separately governed bodies with the
NCAA as an umbrella body over all
three.

Co-op’s trivia contest
promises a free lunch

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

Is there such a thing as a free lun-
ch?

A. Yes.

B. No.

C. Only in the co-op’s weekly Trivia
Quiz.

If you guessed “‘C,’”’ you may have
a chance at winning your own free
lunch. Three students already have,
as the Trivia Quiz is in its fifth week.

Snack bar manager Richard An-
derson came up with the idea for a
trivia contest as a way to generate in-
terest in the co-op while teaching
students a little about their school.

   
      
     
       
       
   
      

 

au

1675S. Main St.

  

te Front Ma),

167 S. Main St., 463-3106 9
Stop by and open up a charge
account for all your grocery needs.
This Week’s Specials are:

e Stroh’s Beer...
© Richfood Peanut Butter

Bea eee 6 Pks. — 1207. Cans

bese. . 8 Pks. — 16 Oz. Bottles $ 1 -

¢ Campbell Tomato Soup... uct”

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years,

Questions ranging from sports tri-
via to W&L history (Jerry Darrell
was W&L’s first food service direc-
tor) are offered, and the student who
can answer all five first wins a free
lunch from the co-op,

Anderson said he has noticed an in-
crease in business this year, but he
did not attribute that to the Trivia
Quiz as much as to the presence of
women on Campus and changes in the
c0-op’s menu.

The weekly quizzes will continue
through this term and their topics
will be geared toward the seasons.

Anderson said he will decide at the
end of this term whether the quizzes

generate enough interest to keep
them going.

   

453-3105 ter
Se

+1,"
+1,"9

oo 18 Ox. Jar.

*

~

-

-

-

~

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985, Page 5

 

Loan defaults

W&L’s low default rate can’t solve student loan problem

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

Washington and Lee graduates are not contributing to
a nationwide problem of student loan defaults that has
Education Department officials wondering how they will
pay administration costs, Financial Aid Director John
DeCourcy said Tuesday.

But DeCourcy said the problem with the Guaranteed
Student Loan program is not the nation’s relatively low
default rate on such loans. The volume of loans given to
students in the first place is a more accurate cause of the
program's trouble, he said.

About 2 percent of W&L students who get GSLs de-
fault, DeCourcy said. The nationwide default rate is cur-
rently 10.7 percent, but education officials expect it to
jump to 11.7 percent this year.

“It ain’t students. It’s Americans,’ DeCourcy said
about defaulters, ‘‘These guys are accountants, doctors
and lawyers.”

About three weeks ago the Education Department told
Congress that it did not intend to pay administration
allowances to the state agencies that guarantee student
loans or to provide advances to help new agencies build
their reserves.

In a letter to leaders of congressional education and
appropriations committees, Gary L. Bauer, Under Sec-
retary of Education, said the department could not af-
ford to make these payments. Congress set aside $55.5
million for the allowances this year.

In August, the department released a study predicting

the dollar amount of student loan defaults to increase
about 45 percent this year, from $749 million to $1.08
billion.

DeCourcy said the problems facing the assistance pro-
gram today are rooted in the Carter administration's
middle income assistance act, which opened up GSLs to
almost everybody.

“People who hadn't even thought about getting a loan
decided it was a good idea,’’ DeCourcy said. And that
same attitude has carried over to today, he added.

For the 1984-85 academic year, 304 W&L undergrad-
uates received $700,000 in guaranteed student loans, and
193 law students got $900,000 under the program.

As a taxpayer, DeCourcy gave his personal opinion on
the student loan program: ‘‘I don’t think your mother
and father should help my wife get a master’s degree in
business.”’

But, he added, “‘It’s there. It’s easily accessible.”’

The Education Department has realized that fact.

Officials are pushing for a major revision of regula-
tions that DeCourcy said may take effect next fall. The
regulations will provide for a much more comprehen-
sive evaluation of a student’s financial need, he said.

Under current regulations, any student whose family
income is below $30,000 qualifies for a GSL. Assets are
not a consideration.

Students whose family income lies in the $30,000-
$75,000 range can take a needs test based on adjusted
gross income, the family size and the number of children
in colleges. A needs test for the student whose family in-
come is over $75,000 evaluates the family’s entire finan-
cial circumstances.

DeCourcy called these standards ‘‘too simple.”’ “It’s
not looking at the picture out there,’’ he said.

Glasgow lecturer Guy Davenport says

art is its own

best historian and critic

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

Guy Davenport, this year’s
Glasgow Endowment lecturer, told
his audience Tuesday that “‘art is its
own historian and critic.”

It was the first of his three-part lec-
ture series in the Commerce School.
His lecture, titled ‘‘The Artist as
Critic,’ was introduced by Professor
James Boatwright of the English De-
partment.

Davenport, a Distinguished Pro-
fessor of English at the University of
Kentucky, was educated at Duke
University, Harvard, and as a
Rhodes Scholar at Oxford. He has
presented lecture series at Yale,
Princeton, and the University of
Toronto. He taught at Washington
College and Haverford College
before establishing his position at the
University of Kentucky in 1964. He is

 

Subway

Serving
New York

Style Subs
Now open Sundays,
1:30-8 p.m. :

463-5752

 

 

Dick Emrey (703) 463-4362

 

 

GUY DAVENPORT

six books of translation, and five
books of poetry. Davenport is also a
noted painter and book illustrator.

 

 

 

 

 

<0

 

 

 

 

BORDEN
COMMONS ©

Lexington's First Condominium Community SS

 

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successtul welcome from the community and quickly sold

out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts, we are introducing Phase II of Borden
Commons
These new and beautiful condominiums are designed to fulfill your every need, and they re located
just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.1. and the historic Lexington community.
Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condominium living?
It you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre
sentatives to help you

Baker Real Estate

Post Ottice Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Ottice (703) 463

fevenings)

 

Tom Baker (703) 463-2510 (evenings)

His objective Tuesday was to
clarify the artist’s role as a critic of
past works. He stressed the idea that
all works are reflections of, or are in-
fluenced by, the finished products of
other artists.

He referred to Joyce’s statement
that “‘all stories are the same anew.”’
“The spontaneous generation of
literary works is as unpredictable as
the spontaneous generation of
nature,’ Davenport said.

He cited several examples of the
reiteration of past ideas in literature.
Comparisons of works and authors
helped illustrate this point.

Davenport also gave a lecture titl-
ed ‘The Scholar as Critic’ on
Wednesday, and concludes his series
this afternoon with “The Critic as Ar-
tist.”’

Davenport’s final appearance at
the University tonight is a reading of
his personal works at 8:15 in the
Library’s Northen Auditorium.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

|

The Reagan administration’s solutions have not pleas-
ed DeCourcy either.

In eight years, Reagan could gradually have solved
the nation’s higher education problem by studying long-
term effects and trends, he suggested. ‘‘Instead it’s been
these crunches.”’

The government is not being realistic when it attempts
to solve the problems of the GSL program all at once,
DeCourcy said. He said his biggest fear right now is the
possibility that the higher standards expected for next
fall will be as dramatic as Carter’s plan to “get the
money out there.”’

“A lot of middle income people will be forced to turn to
State universities because of their lower costs,’ DeCour-
cy predicted. “‘We’re gonna bite the bullet one way or
another. We’re gonna pay for this.”

DeCourcy said he agrees that the Education Depart-
ment needs to measure student needs more rigidly, but
he says other changes also could help.

“Banks are making good money on these loans,” he
said, suggesting that profit margins be cut back. ‘‘The
danger is cutting too deeply or going too quickly and
creating a major shakeup,’’ he added.

“‘T don’t think a lot of long-term thought goes into the
planning of the nation’s education finances,’ DeCourcy
said. ‘‘And that’s unfortunate.”

The government should warn people of how they will
be affected by new student loan regulations, DeCourcy
said. ‘‘Don’t just drop those people, bingo.”

New regulations should be phased in but with a grand-
father clause for those students who are eligible for a
loan but would not be under stiffer regulations, DeCour-
cy suggested.

To cope with increasing expenses, the Education De-
partment is suggesting a number of revisions.

By reducing the federal government’s liability on the
loans to 90 percent, lending agencies would have a great-
er incentive to collect delinquent loans.

Education officials also have been urging Congress to
extend the statute of limitations for collecting bad loans
to at least six years. Some states have only a two-year
statute of limitations.

The Education Department also wants the authority to
disburse loan money in installments rather than making
one payment to students each academic year.

DeCourcy said the rationale for this proposal is the
fact that many students in state institutions do not at-
tend classes on a continuous basis.

Another change the department is seeking is to re-
quire state loan agencies to report defaulters to con-
sumer credit bureaus.

Some states are responding to the federal govern-
ment’s proposed cutbacks by initiating their own loan
programs.

Pennsylvania has one such ‘‘tag along’”’ loan option,
DeCourcy said.

The Student Loan Marketing Association has also de-
veloped a loan program for families whose traditional
sources of income cannot meet education costs. Family
Ed Financing makes available loans up to $10,000 and
more without requiring collateral. The plan also pro-
vides for extended repayment periods.

DeCourcy said several law students this year are fund-
ing their costs with FamilyEd Financing, which sets no
income cap on eligibility.

 

 

 

 

 

Did You Know That....
it’s almost too late???

Don’t get stranded for
Thanksgiving or Christmas

Call Today

Herring Travel Services, Inc.

Lexington’s “Main Street” Agency
41 South Main Street
463-2197
A fully computerized agency.

 

 

With all due regard tol’V Christianity,

haveyoueverseena
Sony that gives Holy Communion?

if TV Christianity makes you want to switch channels, come and join us this Sunday in
Christian fellowship and worship without commercial interruptions. The Episcopal Caurch

R.E.LEE MEMORIAL CHURCH

EPISCOPAL SERVICES
SUNDAY

Eucharist

Church School

Ewcharist,

lst and 3rd.

Morning Prayer 2nd&ath
Evensong followed by
Canterbury club and dinner

WEDNESDAY

t2:1s

Ewcharist,

Starting Oct 16th

JOIN US !

The Rev.
The Rev.

Arthur LL. Dasher,
Nancy R.

Rector
Taylor

Assistant and Chaplain

 

 

 
 

OMECOMING

The Ring-tum Phi,

October 10, 1985

 

iH

iH

BETA THETA PI

Lia Cerminara

Mary Baldwin College *85
Hometown: Glencove, NY

Majored in Communications

Escort: Kirk Breen

Works for Gray & Co., Washington,
D.C. public relations firm

Your guide to the

 

 

 

MINORITY STUDENTS
ASSOCIATION

Stephanie Coleman

Washington and Lee ’89

Hometown: Louisville, KY

\iajor: Sociology

Escort: Derrick Freeman

Plans: Travel to Europe this sum-
mer

Ambition: Sociologist

 

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Kimberly Kay

Tidewater Community College ’89
Hometown: Virginia Beach, VA
Major: Psychology

Escort: Coalter Pollock

Plans: Return to Newfoundland for
‘he summer. Transfer to Virginia
lech.

Ambition: To become a psychologist.

  

>HI KAPPA SIGMA

‘irginia Burke

iollins '86

fometown: New Orleans, LA

fajor: General Art with Business
oncentration

tscort: Ed Barnes

*lans: Applying to graduate school
yr art

.mbition: To get involved in adver-
sing and design

I KAPPA PHI
isa Wagner
ollins '88
ometown: Houston, TX
ajor: History and English
seort: Rich Hobson
Hollins

abroad program to

n January. Attend graduate
hool for journalism.
nbition: To be a writer or a jour

list

CHI PSI

Kirsten Taylor

Sweet Briar ’88

Hometown: Kansas City, MO

Major: Art History and French
Escort: Matt Harrington

Plans: “I’m hoping to spend my
junior year in Paris studying at the
Sorbonne.

Ambition: Graduate School for Art

A kiss, a crown, a queen,
with Shillington as the prize

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

In a year which has seen tradition
after tradition fall by the wayside at
Washington and Lee, there is at least
one event performed annually on
campus that will be replayed this
year — the crowning of the Home-
coming Queen by a colorful chemis-
try professor.

And if all goes well, Professor
James Keith Shillington will ride on-
to Wilson Field in a golfcart at half-
time of the Generals’ game Satur-
day, prepared to bestow upon the
lucky young lady her royal title and
trappings, which include a tiara, bou-
quet anda kiss.

As a tradition, the coronation has
sketchy beginnings, according to
Shillington, who has been crowning
the queen, he said, for as long as
there has been a ceremony.

Though that has been his chore for
many years, he admitted he can’t
quite pin a date on the first corona-
tion he presided over. Nor does Shil-
lington know the how and why of his
selection for the task.

“T never was told why,” he said
with a wink, ‘‘but I think I know.”’

Shillington alluded to his acting ex-
perience as a reason and said those
who selected him apparently were
thinking of his theatrics when they
chose him.

“TI think they thought it would be
hilarious,” he said. ‘‘And I sure have
enjoyed it myself.”’

Shillington’s sole duty in the Home-
coming festivities is the actual
crowning, but it has not always been
this way. During the first few years
Shillington was involved with Home-
coming, he participated in the choos-
ing of the queen as well.

But there were complications.

“T was dining at the [Kappa Alpha]
house,’’ Shillington explained. ‘“‘And
every once in a while the KA’s would
win and I'd be accused of tipping the
balance. I didn’t, certainly. So I quit
judging and I just crowned her.”’

Passing up the judging process on
the way to crowning the queen did not
seem to bother Shillington too much.
“I might as well have the cream off
the top,”’ he said.

The judging of candidates, which
takes place the day before the Home-
coming football game and includes
an interview by a five-member
panel, used to be done strictly from
photographs, Shillington said. That
technique once left the Homecoming

 

DELTA TAU DELTA

Rena White

Hollins °86 (W&L exchange, Fall
term)

Hometown: Baltimore, MD

Major: Political Science

Escort: Ned Richardson

Plans: Intern in the office of Senator
Paul Sarbanes

Ambition: Work as a paralegal and
then attend law school

 

rincesses

   

KAPPA ALPHA

Alycia Wood

Wake Forest '87

Hometown: Charlottesville, VA
Major: Business

Escort: Pat Ferguson

Plans: Continue to work in a bank in
the summer

Ambition: Financial field

 

 

 

  

 

(i

LAMBDA CHI ALPHA

Merriman Ross

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
"88

Hometown: Richmond, VA

Major: Undecided °

Escort: Ross Darling

Plans: Considering studying abroad
Ambition: To be successful, happy
and enjoy life.

 

KAPPA SIGMA
J.A. Ward
Hollins ’86
Hometown: Ashland, KY

Major: Math and Economics

Escort: Paul Schlimm

Plans: MBA study

Ambition: Financial Planning and
Investment Banking

Shillington arrives for the ceremo-
ny in a golf cart that carries him up
the hill from his house in the valley
along Woods Creek. Shillington said ; aS
that because of a recent operation, he py, pELTA THETA
may have to crown the queen from Bebe Bromberg
the cart. His left knee was replaced Hollins College ’88
and has not completely healed. Hometown: Birmingham, AL

Just prior to placing the tiara on Major: History
the queen’s head, Shillington said he xscort: Bourke Harvey
reads a short speech thathe has writ- pjans: Interning for

   

Senator

ten. He attempts to write a fresh Jeremiah Denton in January

Ambition: To get a good education
and to work in public relations.

speech for each year, but said that
the task is becoming increasingly dif-
ficult. He said he occasionally in-
cludes parts of old speeches when he
writes and has even begun ‘‘taking
advantage of the four-year cycle.”

The speech contains ‘‘witticisms,”’
Shillington said, although he admit-
ted these sometimes are not humor-
ous to everyone and sometimes only
to himself.

The real crowd-pleaser in the
ceremony is the moment when Shil-
lington places the crown on the
queen’s head, and favors her with a
kiss. Shillington said that for him,
that moment is the festivities’
highlight.

“Smooching the queen is very
nice,” he said witha grin.

 

Asked whether the feeling has
always been reciprocated by the
queens, Shillington said he couldn’t
remember one who escaped the kiss.

“Some of them have sure tried,”’ he

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Ph

Chemistry Professor Keith Shillington sits in his office

committee a little red-faced come
game day.

One year, Shillington recalled, the
Beta Theta Pi house sent in a photo-
graph of ‘‘a gal when she was 19.”
The panel of judges named her
queen. The problem came when it
was discovered that the Betas had
submitted a 15-year-old photograph.
The woman was over 30.

‘“tuat was a surprise year,”’ Shil-
lington said. “‘She was quite married
and quite well-along in years.”

“It was done partly as a joke,
because the choosing had always
been done from photographs, and

nothing live on the hoof,” he con-
tinued. ‘‘From then on they have de-
finitely had it live on the hoof. They
have spoken to the candidates, at
least, so that they would know that
they were getting what was advertis-
ed.”

For the presentation of the crown,
Shillington dons an outfit, which he
described simply as ‘“‘suitable.’’ He
usually tops off his attire with a red
lame tie, he said, among other
things.

“T try to dress for the occasion,”’ he
said. ‘“‘We of the theater try to give
you a theatrical performance.”

 

 

 

 

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Mary Royall

Hollins '88

Hometown: Camden, SC

Major: Undecided

Escort: Lee Hollis

Plans: Hollins abroad program to
Paris in January.

Ambition: Graduate from Hollins

 

SIGMA CHI

Holly Davis

Hollins 86

Hometown: Virginia Beach, VA
Major: Social Science

Escort: Pete Braden

Plans: Sales or Hotel Management
Ambition: To have a good career and
travel to places I haven't

been
before.

said with an impish chuckle. ‘Every
once in a while there is one who’d
rather not.”’

A bouquet is given to the queen, but
Shillington said that since he has
about all he can handle with the

 

“PHI KAPPA PSI

Polly Paton

Sweet Briar College ’87

Hometown: Winter Park, FL

Major: Biology

Escort: John B. Lewis

Plans: Work in a hospital at home in
physical therapy in January.
Ambition: Eventually I'd like to go to
graduate school for physical therapy
in rehabilitation area.

crowning and kissing of the queen
and her attendants, someone else
presents the flowers.

The afternoon’s activities are fair-
ly tightly scheduled, but Shillington
said he may have a card or two up his
sleeve:

“‘Maybe I’ll lean over like the Lone
Ranger and swoop her away on the
golf cart.”

oe. 2 4:
INDEPENDENT UNION
Katherine Needle

   

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
87

Hometown: Atlanta GA

Major: Psychology, minor in French
Escort: Erich Anspach

Plans: Would like to travel to France
to study. Maybe get master’s degree Escort: Mark Slack

in education. Plans : To go to medical school
Ambition: Counselling in social Ambition: Become a Surgeon, possi-
sciences bly plastic Surgery or orthopedics.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Ellen Satterwhite

Mary Baldwin College ’87
Hometown: Richmond, VA
Major: Biology

 

 

SIGMA NU

Leslie Bauman

Hollins '88

Hometown: Easton, MD

Major: Psychology

Escort: Steven Sadler

Plans: Teach English in Japan next
summer
Ambition
practice

Establish a_ psychiatric

   

 

   

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Tami Trebus

Sweet Briar 87
Hometown: Warren, NJ
Major: International Affairs
Escort: Chris McGowan

ZETA BETA TAL
Amy Jenkins
Sweet Briar ( Ollege '89
Hometown Buckingham, VA
Major History and Religion

hip in W Escort: Gregory Bonn
S: arnship in Winter term lans: Spend i,
Plans: inter P ' ‘min Plans: Spend junior year in France.
international trade with AT&1 sent Z
AmbDition

Ambition: Would like to work

frei 'o do research on the role
; : mi see Of rehigion in Middle East polities and
in the foreign service overseas government

+> age ag en Bi et Di tat ae a

 

A Aen me

rage si
 

|
|

a ft me

i

“Your civic duty

7

The winner of a 1986, two-door Honda Civic like this
me will be drawn on the Saturday night of this year’s
éuperdance for the Muscular Dystrophy Association, to
ve held Jan 24-26 in the Student Activities Pavilion.
Tickets for the drawing, which cost $1 each, will go on
sale at this weekend’s Homecoming football game. The
ear, which was donated to the Superdance, is now being

itself.”

MORE HOMECOMING

King or queen?

Freshmen vie for best banner

 

driven here from Selma, Ala., and will be displayed at
Saturday’s game. Senior Sandy Whann, who with senior
Paul James is co-chairing the Superdance, said it’s
uncertain how many tickets they'll sell. ‘Being a new
thing, we don’t know, even to make estimates,’’ Whann
said. “I think it’ll depend on the effort of the committee

Five-star Generals

 

"By TED LeCLERCQ
»Staff Reporter

 

* Some 60 “five-star Generals” are

ecoming to Washington and Lee for
Homecoming weekend to join the re-
"turning contingent of alumni.

* Although these men are not neces-
sSarily military generals, they are
members of W&L classes that have
“already held their 50th reunion.

” “We realized that the five-star
«General reunions were not getting
,the attention they deserved, so we

moved them from the spring to
i vitemaocnine weekend,”’ said Assis-
{ant Alumni Secretary Leroy C.

“Buddy” Atkins.

‘“What we are trying to do in terms
of the reunion is put a little more life
into Homecoming weekend,” Atkins
said. ‘‘We are using Homecoming for
special-type reunions like the one we
had for the 1934 college football team
last year.”” Atkins was particularly
encouraged by the large number of
returning five star Generals.

“In the eight years that I have been
here, the most that we have ever had
has been in the high 20s. This year
will easily be double any attendance
we have had in the past.”

Atkins said the University will hold
a special Friday night dinner as well
as a Saturday morning coffee for the

part of Homecoming

five-star Generals. He added, how-
ever, that a Lee Chapel concert at
10:30 a.m. will be open to all.

The Alumni Office has been spon-
soring the bands for Saturday’s pre-
game parties and will continue to do
so this weekend with ‘‘Easy Listen-
ing.’’ Atkins said that the band could
be classified as a “‘Dixieland”’ band.

Last week’s turnout, Atkins said,
was good, and he is hoping for a big-
ger one on Saturday.

“Considering the fact that last
week’s pre-game was the morning
after pledging, it was a good turnout.
We hope that more fraternities will
come and identify themselves so
alumni can come up and talk to the
current members.”

 

$15 for the year

Attention alumni
Keep in touch with Lexington

Subscribe to the Ring-tum Phi

Write: P.O. Box 899
Lexington VA
24450

  
 

  
 

 

 

 

 

Rambling Rose Weaving Studio
Nessa Scannell Degen

 

16 W. Washington St.. Lexingion, Va 24450 703-463-4427

Handwoven
Originals
by
Nessa

 

 

 
  
 
 

110 S. Jefferson St.
Le on
463-3538

Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine®@ Beer

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

Lexington
Shoe Hospital

| need your shoe repairs in my
business.

3 West Nelson St.

 

 
     
      
      

 

 

———— 4

SAVE MONEY!

 

21 W. Washington St.

 

Going home for Thanksgiving or
Christmas? Plan ahead,

“System One Computers”
“‘Boarding Pass Printers”’
— 3certified travel consultants —

463-7174

 

 

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

 

They have been planned this week.

Most will be crafted today and
tomorrow.

And Kathekon, the sponsoring
organization, thinks it can be the
beginning of a new “Homecoming at-
titude.”’

The competition: The hall that
creates the best banner on a single
bedsheet will win a $75 pizza feast.

The banners will be displayed at

«Wilson Field during Saturday’s
game.

“It’s a way to build class unity and
be competitive, too,” said Kathekon
President Jim Kerr. ‘We want this to
be the beginning of a tradition.”

   
 
 

  
 

Welcome
WE&L Alumni

Wendell's
Barber Shop

| need your head for
my business.

Car Burglar
Alarms

  

Installation Available

Eastern

Distributing
463-9703 after 6 p.m.

  

   
 

OUR "TYPING"

Is

DATA SERVICES
203 N.

463-9455

You must si

 
  
  
 
 
  

   

WordPerfect»

MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985, Page 7

*““We want more of a ‘Homecoming
attitude,’ ’’ he continued. “It’s sucha
simple idea, but it has a lot of poten-
tial.”’

His organization is a group of about
20 student leaders with the goal of im-
proving participation in W&L ac-
tivities while working through the
Alumni Association.

“The Homecoming Queen,” con-
tinued Kerr, ‘‘kind of gets the frater-
nities to compete against each other,
and this is a project in which the
freshmen can compete against each
other, too.”’

“Tt will mean a lot to people who
see it, particularly alumni. We also
thought it would be an easy, inexpen-
sive way to have fun and show some
more enthusiasm,”’ Kerr said.

The dormitory counselors are mov-

ing into action too. The challenge has
been issued from the third floor of
Graham-Lees. Their goal: domina-
tion — superiority over every other
hall. And they have already had one
planning session more than everyone
else.

Dorm counselor Sydney Marthi-
son’s hall had this notice on the
bathroom door for last night’s
meeting:

“The meeting is located at Pizza
Hut and the only thing on the agenda
for the evening is the all-you-can-eat-
special that will be happening.

“The purpose of the meeting is to
create unity on our superior hall, so
everyone please try to come! (Also
we'll be discussing the banner we
need to make for the football
game.)”’

 

 
   
     
 
  
  

 

Imagination

165 South Main Street

   

    

463-9152

 

 

  
    

   
      
  
 

SENIORS

You Are Now Late

Senior pictures will only be taken from
October 14 through October 25

gn up in the Co-op for an appointment
This Is Your Last Chance
* Seniors who do not have their pictures taken by
the 25th will be penalized or excluded from the book.

    

 
 

The Jackson
Barber Shop

“The Valley’s Oldest’

15 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia

 

 

  
    
       
   
   
   
   

the CALYX

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Soporte ce ces ag

 

 

 

 

a

 

 

<a a ee Se Se ae See ee oe cee oe ee oe ee oe oe oe ol

DOMINO'S
PIZZA
DELIVERS
FREE.

1 $1.00 off any one

a item or more pizza
One coupon per pizza
Expres 10 16 85
Fast, Free Delivery”

Not good with any

other offer

Name
Address

 

 

$2.00 off any Deluxe
or Price Destroy-

OURO OF Sr ccmes wren
xpres 10 16 85
Destroyer ‘“ :

Fast, Free Delivery”
Not good with any
other offer

Name
Address

wo
bee ee
Pizza

 

 

Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the price of 4
Domino s Destroyer 9 stems for the price of 5

Anytime after 4
p.m., order a large
z-item pizza and 2
Cokes and get $1.00
off. One coupon per
pizza. Expires:
10/16/85.

Fast, Free Delivery”

Not good with any
other offer

Dinner
Special!

Bil

Mone.
Address _

 

463-7375

23 S. Jefferson

 

 
 

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

Dean

 

Continued from Page 1

associate dean. Williams said the
University’s last Rhodes Scholar was
a physics major, whom he counseled
a great deal.

For other counseling tasks, Wil-
liams said he is ‘‘prepared as much
as the faculty-adviser system can
prepare me.”

Williams joined the faculty in 1974.

In 1967 he earned a doctorate in
physics from the University of
Virginia. He then worked for two
years at the National Bureau of Stan-
dards on a National Science Founda-
tion post-doctoral research fellow-
ship. A one-year research project
followed at the Universitaet
Erlangen-Nuernberg in West Ger-
many.

Williams became an assistant pro-
fessor of physics at Virginia Military
Institute for one year before moving
to Colorado Springs to take a job as
staff scientist at Kaman Sciences.

His appointment as associate dean
may be partially answered by his
special working relationship with
Elrod, Williams said.

“‘We nearly always see things in a

 

THOMAS WILLIAMS

slightly different perspective,’’ he

explained.

Their supplementing points of view
have been useful when they are solv-
ing problems associated with the
Faculty Advisory Committee, which
Elrod chairs, Williams said.

Williams also said his particular
background will help balance the
range of disciplines administrators
have. He believes his science orienta-
tion will work well with Elrod’s
humanities background.

Police cite five houses

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

Five fraternities were issued noise
violations last Friday night, and as a
result Lexington Police Chief L.O.
Sutton is telling the University’s fra-
ternities to ‘‘cool it.”’

Delta Tau Delta received its noise
violation at 12:35 a.m. The other four
houses — Kappa Sigma, Phi Kappa
Psi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Phi
Kappa Sigma — were issued their
noise violations between the hours of
1:15 and 3:20a.m.

Sutton said Delt received its noise
violation so earlv hecause they had

Most freshman halls vote for

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

“Enough is enough,” said some
freshmen women, and after the
three-week trial period most of the
woman’s halls have voted to extend
visiting hours on their halls.

“T got tired of people banging on
the doors if they accidently closed
during the day or early in the morn-
ing,’ said freshman Patience Jones,
whose hall voted to have 24-hour vi-
sitation. ‘Since my door is on the

neglected to apply for a noise permit.

“The spirit of cooperation goes
when the fraternities don’t bother to
get a noise permit. If they violate
that cooperation, then all the guide-
lines don’t count,” Sutton said.

According to Sutton, there have
been more problems this year with
the noise at fraternity parties than
usual. He said that there are fewer
parties and that those parties are just
too big for the houses.

‘“‘When the party gets too crowded,
they open all the doors and windows.
Then the crowd starts to move out-
side. By 12 o’clock — with the effect
the alcohol has on their hearing —

end, I was always forced to let people
in.”

The freshman halls voted on visit-
ing hours at the beginning of the
year. The male halls all voted for 24-
hour visitation, but female halls had
varied hours.

Now, after the three-week trial
period, all the halls but two — the
second and third floors of Graham-
Lees — have 24-hour visitation privi-
leges.

Dormitory counselor Dandrea
Miller agreed with her hall’s new 24-

 

 

 

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

For the second year in a row ROTC
cadets have been the top participants
in Chi Psi’s biannual American Red
Cross blood drive.

“The cadets usually have the
highest percentage of donors,” said
senior Jake Squiers, Chi Psi’s coor-
dinator of the blood drive.

Major Doug Smith of the Military
Science Department said, ‘‘We do en-
courage the guys, but it’s not man-
datory for them to give blood.”

Squiers said the school fell about 25
pints short of its 150 pint quota.

“We're expecting a lot better turn-
out in February,” he said. ‘Last Oc-
tober the turnout was fairly low, but
in February we went over quota.”’

Red Cross Executive Libby At-
thowe said, ‘‘Actually the process is
quite painless and quick.’”’ ‘‘There
are six stations you must go through.
The whole process takes about 45
minutes and when you're done you
get homemade sancwiches.”

Atthowe joked that ‘‘that alone is
worth the giving of blood.”

“There were only two people to
faint this year,” she added.

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

,

ROTC cadet Mike Carter gives blood to the Bloodmobile in Warner Center Tuesday ‘

for noise violations

they are oblivious to just how loud
they are,”’ Sutton said.

Sutton feels that the problem could
be alleviated if the parties could be
kept inside the fraternity houses and
the windows could be kept closed. He
also asks that the sound simply be
kept down.

“No one deliberately sets out to
disturb people. It just happens,” Sut-
ton said.

Still, he feels there is a problem
here that needs to be addressed.

“The truth of the matter is that the
presidents are not receiving the co-
operation of their guests and there-
fore have been thus far unable to con-

trol them,’’ Sutton said.

Sutton plans to talk with the presi-
dent of each house that received a
violation.

He also talked to an entire house
Monday night to discuss problems
and remedies. He said he will do the
same for other houses if the need
arises.

“Through cooperation, we can do
it,” Sutton said. ‘‘There are several
other alternatives, but I would rather
not speculate on them.

“Basically, the noise needs to be
brought under control. I would much
prefer that the fraternities handle it
themselves. I don’t like to work from
7a.m. to3a.m.”

24-hour visitation policy

hour policy and said she felt her
freshmen were responsible enough to
handle any hours.

According to head dormitory coun-
selor Tom Mack, the purpose of the
trial period was to give students a
chance to get to know the personali-
ties on their hall and adjust to new
living conditions.

Once again, the voting was by
secret ballot, so students felt no
pressure while voting.

Sydney Marthinson’s freshmen
changed from their previous position

of the strictest visitation rights and
decided to have restricted visitation
only from 6 to 9a.m. on weekdays.

Sophomore Gil Lackey reflected
the general reaction on campus when
he gave support for 24-hour visita-
tion.

“I’m really up for it,” he said.

“Last year, everyone had 24-hour
visitation and there were always
girls in the dorm. I honestly don’t feel
that will be any different with guys
on the girls floor regardless of the
policies voted on.”’

 

 
  
  

oe

4 By Appointment 463-9588
Robin« Peggy * Marie

Advertise in The Phi

REDE GES SES RE OEP 0 GRIESE OSE RD PEE a) ee

Mins Mei Saye

463-8581

 

 

CEE | > <eNE

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA so

SA) EG OD) AE ED RE) REO <ER- « <ett « a () <emmat

 

PIZZA

$2 OFF!

SALE:

 

® Better hurry to your home
town Pizza Hut" restaurant!
It’s not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. $9 So
come on in. Bring the whole

 

 
   

J

a
ca
:
i

  
  

  

Nie,
on,

 
 

a i ee
: $9 OFF
s $2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
e Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
a per party per visit at

participating Pizza Hut®
restaurants.

Please present coupon whenordering Not valid in combination «
a cash redemption value © 1983 Pizza Hut. Ine Good wily through

  
    
   
 

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

en
Pizza
Hut.

  

family. () We'll pile on layers
of pure mozzarella cheese and
all your favorite toppings.
There’s no better time to try
our unparalleled Pizza Hut®
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

 

PY
128 fs me Ue wy

Sad
Pa
zi

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexinatsn, VA
452-/000

thany otherofter © 20cent po

10-12-85

we rrrTs tts st

Freshmen
Vote Anne Geary
for
University Council

 

 

 

130 S. Main

e Cannondale accessories
¢ Camp trails packs
¢ Complete repair service

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Open 9-5, Mon.-Fri. and 9-12 Sat.

© Road or trail route information

463-7969
¢ Motobecane
* Shogun —
¢ Ross

¢ Eureka tents

 

 

Just Arrived!
(Finally)

The Reorders Of:

¢ Duckheads

e Ruffhenn Pants
e Dirty Bucks

e Suede Jackets

 

College “oun Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

SHOP

117 West Nelson Street

a

ee

Lexington, Virginia

Enlarged Stock Including:
Blank Cassettes and Newspapers

Albums and Cassettes

$6°-$7

 

—

 

 

1 SHERIDAN
R SHERIDAN

Corsages -
with care!

"ant fterson

Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson [—-|
Lexington '

463-9841

11 W. Nelson Sf.
463-2022

Watches and Jeweiry Repairs
Gifts for All Occasions

Located at 136 Varner Lane
directly behind Leggetts

with plenty of parking

  
 
 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

We have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.

Phone: 463-3975 or walk in.

 

>

 

 

 
 

 
   

 

 

HOUS

Restaura

American cuisine. Cockt

Open for

The.

WILLSON- faut
WALKER @

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a0 a
} MUO | AH | A
. “er || Wee 7 TTT TP ry ret '
E YAO) A SM.
Sf —
Re ‘as t ee
’

lunch and dinner,

vations requested for dinner.

30 N. Main St.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

703-463-3020

ails, beer, and wine.
d 11:30-2:30, '
5:30-10:00, Tuesday-Saturday. Closed Sunday '
and Monday. Banquet room available. Reser: '

,

¥

 

pnd
-

.

~

~

*

er oe ee

le

*

’

’

*

SPORTS

Gridders quadruple
‘season point totals

against ODAC rival

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

Until Saturday, W&L’s offense
could have been best described as
stagnant. They had given up 10
sacks, committed 11 turnovers, and
scored a total of seven points in two
previous efforts. But in last week’s
game they more than quadrupled
their season point-total en route to an
easy 31-19 victory over conference-
rival Randolph-Macon.

Things didn’t look good in the be-
ginning of the game when, after tak-

® ing a 3-0 lead on B.J. Sturgill’s 30-

'

s

‘

‘

'

f

4

'

'

yard field goal, quarterback Jon
Thornton threw his eighth intercep-
tion of the season, giving Randolph-
Macon the ball in W&L territory. The
Yellow Jackets then proceeded to
march 36 yards for the 7-3 lead with
10:19 gone in the first quarter.

However, on W&L’s next posses-
sion, Thornton hit Senior Chris
Bleggi for 45 yards and a touchdown,
giving the Generals a 10-7 lead that
they never relinquished.

Tailback Kevin Weaver chipped in
two touchdowns, and Bleggi caught a
13-yard Thornton pass for his second
touchdown of the day to round out
W&L’s scoring.

But why the sudden explosion on of-
fense? The Generals certainly had
shown signs in the past two games
that they were capable of moving the
ball, but turnovers and mistakes had
prevented them from reaching the
end zone as often as they would have
liked to. What was it this week that
enabled them to score so often?

“We executed well,’’ said Fallon.
“The offensive line allowed Thornton
time to throw, the receivers did
great, Jon had a great day — every-
thing just gelled.”’

The outstanding play of the offen-

’ sive line was a big factor in Satur-

day’s victory. In the two preceeding
games, the line allowed 10 sacks, but
against the Yellow Jackets it did not
give up any. Previously, the runners
could only average 172 yards per
game behind their blocking; this

. week the Generals rushed for 253

yards.
“We made some adjustments on
the offensive line during the week;”

W&L coach named to

 

By CHRIS APPLEBY

Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee Assistant
Athletic Director George “Chuck”
O’Connell will return this weekend to
his alma mater, Denison University
for homecoming. But it will be more
than just a reunion for the former all-
America lacrosse player. Friday,
O’Connell will be inducted into
Denison Sports Hall of Fame.

Pride surfaced as he imaginea
himself among the 55 superior
athletes he will be honored with Fri-
day. ‘‘I am extremely grateful to
receive this recognition. To think of
all the athletes who have played at
Denison, it is a great honor to be
selected.”

A 1965 graduate of Denison, he will
be honored for four outstanding
seasons as a lacrosse player for the

Harriers see
first defeat
since 1983

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

 

Saturday, Oct. 5, was a disappoint-
ing day for the Washington and Lee
cross country team.

The Generals suffered their first
regular season loss since 1983, ending
the string of 28 consecutive victories,
when visiting Roanoke College, the
last team to defeat W&L, scored a 17,
compared to the General’s 45 and
Norfolk State’s 101

Roanoke nailed down the first
three spots with times of 28:17, 28:18,
and 28:18. Sophomore Scott Rippeon
was W&L’s lone representative in the
top seven, running the course in 28:39
for a fourth-place finish.

Although W&L was not victorious,
Coach Dick Miller noted, ‘Everyone
ran well and continues to show im-
provement.’’ The General’s
effectiveness was hampered by the
absence of both Eddie Goundry and
Ash Andrews, occupied by taking the
LSAT. Goundry set a course record
in the Generals’ first race

The loss, however, does not elimi-
nate W&L from contention for the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference t-

 

explained Fallon. “They executed
well and stopped Randolph-Macon’s
blitz early. Once we were able to get
them out of [the blitz] they couldn’t
surprise our kids any more, and our
kids were able to control their kids up
front.”’

But the offense wasn’t the only
story this week. The defense turned
in their third consecutive excellent
game, holding the Yellow Jackets to
19 points, the last six of which came
with no time on the clock. They had
been averaging 27 points a game.

The officials allowed that last
touchdown to stand despite a state of
general confusion on the field and
claims that the play had been blown
dead.

“The defense did very well again,”
said Fallon. ‘‘We saw a lot of aggres-
siveness out there and they forced a
number of turnovers. They held R-M
very well, and didn’t give up the big
score. Also, the kicking game did
well this week.”’

Saturday, W&L returns to Wilson
Field for its Homecoming game with
Maryville. The Scots come to Lexing-
ton rated the top passing squad in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference,
averaging 319.8 yards per game.

But the Generals come into the
game ranked first in the conference
in pass defense, yielding only 89.3
yards per contest.

Fallon is wary of the Maryville air
show. ‘They have an offense that will
mix things up and keep us off
balance,” he said, indicating W&L
will have to be ‘‘totally prepared”’ to
beat the Scots.

SIDELINES:...The R-M win raises
the Generals’ record to 2-1 (1-1),
while the Yellow Jackets fall to 2-2
(0-1), ... Thornton had his best game
of the season, going 14 of 29 for 196
yards and two touchdowns...Tailback
Kevin Weaver has had 100-yard ef-
forts in both of his games since retur-
ning to the lineup, last week running
for 114 yards in 25 tries...Maryville
signal-caller Pat Moyer threw for 396
yards last week in the Scots’ 33-23 win
over Cumberland...The Scots are last
in the conference running the ball,
averaging under 70 yards a game on
the ground...W&L linebacker Tom
Skeen intercepted a pass and was in
on 11 tackles last week...W&L has not
lost to Maryville in four years....

Big Red. He was distinguished as an
all-American twice, in 1962 and 1965,
and received all-Midwest recognition
four straight years among competi-
tion that included Army, Navy and
Johns Hopkins. He held Denison
records for most carreer goals (101)
and points (151) during his lacrosse
career. He led the Big Red as a co-
captain his senior year, was selected
as the team’s MVP and participated
in the North-South All-Star game.

His great success as a collegiate
athlete has carried over into his
career as an assistant coach at W&L.
In his 13 years here he served the
lacrosse team as offensive coor-
dinator and goalie coach from 1974-83
and is presently the defensive coor-
dinator for the Generals’ football
team, a position he has held for the
last seven years,

During his 10 years as assistant
lacrosse coach he led the team into

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

q;
a i en
; ‘3 a. \ 1 a
iT fi ay?
Bh oe,

 

 

By Mark Mandel/W&L Sports Information

‘Something special’ about the game

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

In 1948, the Generals’ football team faced
Virginia. An old press release reads, ‘“‘Might be
Old Dominion’s ‘game of the year.’ Both teams
offense-minded, both pack scoring punch. First
game between old rivals in Lexington since 1942.
Homecoming game for Big Blue and sellout ex-

.pected.”’ The Generals forgot to throw their scor-

ing punch that day and suffered a 41-6 loss to the
Cavaliers
It’s no longer Division I football, but it’s still a

‘big weekend. The Romantics, pre-game tailgate

parties, a new Homecoming Queen and Saturday
night cocktail parties all surround the big event
Saturday afternoon: the game. This Saturday the
Generals will host Maryville when the two teams
kick off Washington and Lee’s 1985 Homecoming
game.

Just as students look forward to big concerts,
dates and parties this weekend, fans and players
believe there is something special about the
Homecoming game,

Generals’ tri-captain Tim Janyska agrees.
“There is a different atmosphere,” Janyska said,

“A lot of the graduated players come back to
watch the game,”’ he said. ‘‘It’s nice to put ona
good performance and make a good impression.”

When asked if he takes a special approach to the
Homecoming game, head coach Gary Fallon said,

Denison Hall of Fame

“T tend not to, because I am nota part of the festiv-
ities.”

But, he added, ‘I am sure.that the athletes do,
because there is a much larger sporting crowd
supporting the team.”’

Fallon, well aware of the weekend’s activities,
warned that there is always the possibility that
Homecoming could have an adverse effect on his
team.

“If the kids aren’t watching, it could be disrupt-
ful to their concentration,” Fallon said.

In addition to the game on the field, there is also
a different atmosphere in the stands at Homecom-
ing. The fraternities cheer for their nominated
queens. The students who watch the game are in-
volved in a busy weekend schedule: ‘‘concert last
night, tailgate this morning, and party tonight.”’

Senior class president Townes Pressler enjoys
“everyone being there and having a good time.”’

“It seems that people are more excited to watch
the game and see who the queen is going to be,”’
Pressler said.

The records show that the W&L football team
usually enjoys Homecoming. The-files reveal that
since 1948, the Generals have posted 21 wins, 13
losses and two ties in the Homecoming game.

W&L has earned some great Homecoming vic-
tories since 1948. In 1950 and '52, the Generals
defeated Virginia Tech by scores of 25-7 and 34-27.
The Generals then avenged their ’48 loss to U.Va.
when they turned back the Wahoos, 27-13 in 1953.

The nation’s 1951 Gator Bowl team (the

Generals, of course) enjoyed a 34-0 Homecoming
win over Davidson. Davidson might have enjoyed
that game more than its previous Homecoming
appearance at Wilson Field, when the Generals
recorded their most lopsided Homecoming victory
since 1948 by running up a 53-0 score.

The 1961 undefeated and untied W&L team that
was featured in Sports Illustrated earned its sec-
ond most overwhelming Homecoming victory, a
43-0 handling of Randolph-Macon.

Sewanee has made more Homecoming appear-
ances at W&L than any other team since 1948. The
Tigers have made it to Lexington for the big
weekend six times. The Generals have sent them
back to Tennessee with five losses.

W&L’s biggest current rival, Hampden-Sydney,
has played in four Homecoming games. W&L
hasn’t handled these Tigers too well on Homeom-
ing. H-SC has won three of the four games. The
other game was a scoreless tie in 1968.

W&L’s other post-1948 Homecoming tie came at
the hands of Randolph-Macon, 20-20, in 1974.

Although the Generals have won only five otf
their last 10 Homecoming games, they have won
four of their last five. During this 10-year span, the
Generals suffered their worst Homecoming de
feat, 43-0, in 1977 at the hands of this weekend's op:
ponent, Maryville.

The Generals look to avenge that ‘77 loss and
possibly write another chapter in W&L Homecom
ing football history this weekend.

The game will kick off at 1:30 p.m.

 

six Division I playoffs, producing five
all-American attackmen and two C.
Markland Kelley award-winning
goalies. Nationally, he served as the
President of the U.S. Lacrosse
Coaches Association from 1976-78.

Six all-conference defensive
players have come out of the last five
winning football teams under O’Con-
nell’s guidance.

Reflecting, O’Connell said he was
“raised as a lacrosse player who
played football’? at St. Paul’s in
Baltimore, and lacrosse remains his
favorite sport. At the suggestion of
the school’s headmaster he took a
detour to Denison during a planned
trip to Kenyon College. He admitted
to considering W&L and UVa but
decided on Denison, knowing it was
his place as soon as he saw the
school, he said.

Favorably

recalling Granville,

W&L harriers race in tandem in Saturday’s competition

tle. ashe icague champion is deter-
mined at the conference meet on
Nov. 9. At this time the Generals will
get another shot at Roanoke, this

time running against them at full

strength.
This weekend W&L will take on vi-
siting Catholic University Although

Ohio (home of Denison) O'Connell
said he always noted Denison’s only
difference from W&L in the fact that
it admitted women. This no longer
true, he holds the schools to be
similar in all aspects.

Coaching for the Virginia Lacrosse
Club, whom he led to an undefeated
championship season last spring,
kept him from attending his 20 year
reunion. From a coaching standpoint
he expressed a desire to resume col-
legiate lacrosse coaching duties ‘‘if
the right opportunity came along.”
He looks forward to the opportunity
to return to Denison for the first time
in 10 years. Homecoming at Denison
will enable him to see many of his
former classmates and coaches. But
O’Connell must forgo the homecom-
ing activities at Denison in order to
return to Lexington by Saturday for
the Generals’ football game with
Maryville.

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Miller knows little about the caliber
of the team, one things is for sure
W&L will be anx ious to rebound from
its loss last weekend

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team won four out of five match-
es last weekend in the first round of
the Southern League tournament
play at George Washington Universi-
ty, bringing their season record to
10-6.

The Generals had decisive vic-
tories against Lynchburg, 20-6,
George Washington, 18-8, the Univer-
sity of North Carolina-Wilmington,
11-3, and Virginia Commonwealth
University, 24-3. The Generals then
lost to Richmond, 13-7, where they
began to show signs of breaking down
the gap between the two teams

Narrowing the goal-margin to six
points, the Generals proved that they
can play with the Spiders, who have
twice previously controlled them.

A noticeably more confident and
controlled team, W&L was taking
more shots on goal on offense and ap-
plying more pressure on defense in
the Richmond game.

Coach Page Remillard was pleased
with the team’s improved play, ‘In
the past, Richmond was dictating the

T ‘

fame ‘

 

Phi file photo by Cotton Puryear

Chuck O’Connell instructs his football charges

Water polo wins
4 of 5 in round one

green. The second time, the level of
officiating was so far below the leve!
of play that, though the right team
won, the game was a mystery. The
third time, we were able to make
changes in our game — we had them

playing our game.”
The Generals’ success in furthe:
narrowing the gap between the

teams will depend, in part, on thei
ability to continue to increase the
defensive pressure, with the desired
result of cutting down on Richmond
goals.

W&L’s goaltenders will accrir
their share of this responsibility
“Our goalies are not doing the job
They are not playing on par w ith our
other players,’’ Remillard comment
ed. “I am optimistic about them
though. They have the ability

This weekend the Generals will
compete in the Southeast Varsity In
vitational, which is a combination of
the top ten teams in the East. The
team hopes to improve upon las!
year’s ninth-place finish. Key mate!
es will be with MIT and Harvard

The team will then look to th
Southern League play, climaxing 0
Parents’ Weekend in the +
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

 

 

TT

D & a &
....Quite a quandary, this proposal
limiting colleges to participation in
one NCAA division across the board.
Kind of a case of ‘“‘We’re not gonna
take it anymore” from the full D-I
programs vs. ‘‘Don’t take away our
favorite toy” from the one-sport D-I
teams.

Let’s put the deal in its simplest
terms: The full scale D-I institutions
find it unfair to compete against those schools that compete in D-I in
just one sport, thereby allowing them to dump all their funding into
that one sport while the full-scale programs must distribute scholar-
ships and funding evenly to all their sports. These single-scholarship-
sport schools feel that they would be forced unnecessarily to lower
their level of competition, a level they have earned.

lhe problem is very real. Johns Hopkins would clearly feel left out
in the cold if it were forced to drop down to a lesser world of lacrosse in
Division IL. Randolph-Macon runs stellar programs in Division II
basketball and Division III football. Forcing the institution to make a
choice that would misplace one program or relegate an entire system
is certainly an unpleasant choice.

However, we are not dealing with what is unpleasant or difficult.
The pending legislation is aimed at clearing up a discrepancy in the
existing divisional setup. Situations like those existing at Hopkins and
Macon are the result of this fault, a fault that never should have ex-
isted

‘he gripe many have with the college game today is that athletes,
except in — fingers crossed? — Division III, are removed from the col-
legial experience. Certainly, it is a valid one. What is worse are
across-the-board Division III programs that are Division I. Here, they
have created a greater gap between the type of students as well as the
participatory type of athletic philosophy in Division III institutions.

(he scholarship athlete is restricted to participation in only the sport
he receives the scholarship in. )

lhe real problem is that multi-divisional status invites trouble by
altering a school’s athletic philosophy for a select few. Such a practice
is unnecessary complexity.

{t's a case of not-belonging. Hopkins must embrace Division III ful-
ly. And those schools that drop down to play D-III football when in fact
they are D-I institutions simply will have to be reoriented. Perhaps dif-
ficult, but necessary all the same.

At W&L, where the impact of such legislation is as great in its own
way, we can pass over all this hoo-ha about divisional status. We are
Division I in lacrosse in name only, not in practice (and here I refer to
scholarships). Therefore, the cost of a forced drop in divisional level is
merely a change of venue. It is not so much the loss of that elusive
brass ring of a Division I championship, but the gain of a new brass
ring. As well, it would serve to eliminate the annual banter about divi-
sional change and set the frame of reference toward athletic perfor-
mance and appreciation of that performance for its own sake....

..Coming home to the Colonnade it’s good to see that first impres-
sions aren't lasting as far as the W&L gridders are concerned. Could
be this =<greus is just coming into. its

own, which would make winning season No. 6 clock. Meanwhile, this
week’s Maryville affair is no easy pickins. ODAC’s best pass defense
W&L vs. ODAC’s best pass offense. It is my understanding to go with
defense in these situations... In polo, take note that the Richmond-
W&L goal difference has been cut in half...Good chance the cross coun-
try loss on Saturday was a fluke. Two top runners missed the race with
LSAT. They will be there at conference meet. Enough said....
....Weekend college suggestions: Texas over Oklahoma, Penn State
\big) over Alabama, Florida over Tennessee...Not only does Gerry
Faust’s coaching strategy escape Keith Jackson (’’These plays just
defy my logic’), but also they spell the rapidly approaching end of a
failed experiment at the Golden Dome. Candidates? God knows...
....Well, it’s that wily baseball playoff time of year. No guesses as to
who will do well, but I must say that the switch to seven games seems
to sound an awful lot like so much cash register noise to me...Speaking
of noise, Commissioner Ueberroth’s proclamations on ‘‘60 Minutes’”’
while punctuated in the right direction, are guaranteed to run into a
brick wall as far as Donald ‘‘And you thought Stephen King was
scary’ Fehr is concerned. Good thing for the commish that the public
is on his side. They also pay the checks...

...And, of course, the Redskins won on Monday night. Cut to Joe G.
Talking to Joe T.: ‘‘Now, how do we get the rest of the division to play

as bad as we did? Anyway, we got The Post off of our backs. Now,
about that punt....”’

TIME
OUT....

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

   
 
 

    
 

   
 

 
 

Valley True Value Hardware

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

  

E. Nelson St.

463-2186 Sun. 1-5

 

(703) 261-2373 NIGHT
(703) 463-2826 DAY

POPLAR HILL EXXON

24 HR. WRECKER SERVICE

Foreign & Domestic
Car Repair

ROUTE
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 244

 

  

Mon, - Sat. 8:30 - 6:00

ay

EXIT 51 ROUTE 60 1-81
#
50

 
 

  

A pair of 7s (Chip Landis, W&L; Charles Rynex, Messiah) battle for the ball

Messiah Falcons down Kickers, 1-0

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

It is only natural to assume that the
more support a team has, the better
its chances of winning. And heaven
knows that catching an occasional
lucky break never hurt anyone.

On Saturday, the Washington and
Lee soccer team could rely on neither
nature nor heaven in its efforts to
defeat the Falcons of Messiah Col-
lege.

Although they were never out of the
game, the Generals were unable to
generate enough offense and lost the
contest 1-0.

The W&L game plan of using all 11
men at both ends of the field was

SALE SALE

    
 
 
      

SALE SALE

SALE SALE SALE

   

SALE

   
 

SALE SALE SALE

 

1 a]

i

  
         
  
    
    
     
     

Books On Sale

20% to 50%
OFF Original Retail Price

Starts Friday,
October 11

W&L Bookstore

LE SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE

established early and enabled the
Generals to dominate the first half of
play. The crisp passing that was seen
in their previous two victories had
returned.

This meant that W&L would be
able to work the ball-control attack
that had been so successful earlier in
the season. The Generals did exactly
that for the majority of the first half
and regulated the offensive flow of
both teams.

Everything climaxed when, with
just four seconds left to halftime,
junior forward Ken Randby lofted a
beautiful cross into Messiah’s goai
mouth. Neither of the W&L players in
position to receive the ball, senior
Billy Holmes and freshman Johnny
Sarber, was able to score, and the

SALE SALE SALE SALE

     
 

J1VS 31VS

     
   
   

PPL Le Dk ME A A A A B'S

 

 

  

half ended in a 0-0 tie.

On the play, Sarber was knocked to
the ground by a Messiah player, yet
no penalty was called, Coach Rolf
Piranian questioned the call, but said
Tuesday that the officials told him
they did not see the play. Had an in-
fraction been called, W&L would
have had a penalty kick and an excel-
lent opportunity to take the lead.

The W&L team that took the field in
the second half was a perfect exam-
ple of a team that had just seen the
wind taken out of its sails. They im-
mediately relinquished control of the
game and at 37:57, Messiah junior
midfielder Doug Martin deposited
the ball just below the W&L crossbar,
thus completing the transition of mo-
mentum.

 

By David Sprunt

Messiah was now able to play
enough strong defense to keep the
Generals off the scoreboard, and
aside from a couple of Holmes’ long
throw-ins, the General’s offense was
done for the afternoon.

Despite the loss, Piranian praised
his players. ‘“‘Our kids played their
hearts out,”’ he said.

Commenting on the rest of the sea-
son he said, ‘“‘We have our sights on
improving to a position where we can
win.”

The Generals look to get back on
track with a Tennessee weekend road
trip. W&L plays the University of the
South in Sewanee on Friday after-
noon and then a conference contest
with Maryville on Saturday after-
noon.

 

   
 
 

116 N. Main St.

(across from Stop-in!)

H From
Animals to

G any way you letter it
E —we’ve got it all!!!

PODGE

  
 

The store every student needs!

D = Zoo goo...

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

 

 

463-3612

 

 

Jill’s a Lady

126 S. Main St.

Come in and browse,
All famous name brands
in Jr. and Misses sizes

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

WELCOME ALUMNI

College “lown Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

We look forward to your visit and want to remind
you that we still have the largest selection of

e Sportscoats

¢ Suits by Corgin & J. Press

e Sero Oxford Shirts
e Dirty Bucks

e Unbelievable Tie Selection
e Duckhead & Ruffhenn Slacks
e Everything for your Gal—Sweaters,

Skirts & Dresses—

 

 

 

Dresses
Sweaters
Sportswear
Accessories

 

 

 

 

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
Walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

 

 
   
   
   
    
     
  
  

 
    
    
  
 

Oa aaa ara

‘ee ee setae ee,

Cwwwstoanwonan es anew hy

 

 

 
-

7

«

 

#BACK PAGES

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

11

 

The Romantics: ’60s rock and ’80s style

Friday night pavilion concert promises to be
‘high powered rock-and-roll show’

CONCERTNOTES

By JOHN HAYWOOD
Music Critic

 

 

It will be ’60s rock and ’80s style
this weekend when the Romantics
and Picture This kickoff Homecom-
ing weekend Friday night at the Pav-
ilion.

The Romantics, who should deliver
their usual high-powered rock-and-
roll show. The ’60s style of the
Romantics has often been labeled
revisionalist instead of revivalist, but
the influence of ’60s bands, such as
the Rolling Stones and the Beatles,
shows clearly.

Formed in 1977, the Romantics
rose to national prominence in
1980 on the strength of their first

About You.’ Then came, in succes-
sion, the albums ‘“‘National Break-
out,’”’ “Strictly Personal,’ and “In
Heat.’”’ The success of the fourth
album in 1984, which included the hit
“Talking In your Sleep,”’ produced
the band’s first certified gold record,
and sent the band on its first major
our

The recently released follow-up to
“In Heat,” ‘Rhythm Romance,” has
failed to produce any hits, though
several tracks, including ‘‘Mysti-
fied’ and a remake of the Coasters’
“Poison Ivy’’ are worth listening for
this Friday.

Guitarist Wally Palmar now han-
dles all lead vocals, joined by bassist
Mike Skill, guitarist Coz Canler, and
new drummer and Detroit transplant
David Petratos. Seven of the 10

penned by the team of Palmar, Can-
ler and Skill.

Because the original members of
the Romantics grew up in Detroit,
the band’s roots lie deep in Motor Ci-
ty sounds. They were powerfully in-
fluenced by the sounds of Motown
and the original British Invasion, as
well as a host of local legends in-
cluding MC5, the Rationals, and the
Bob Seger System. The Detroit roots
still influence the band heavily, as
shown by the “Test of Time’’ track
from the recent album.

Despite the strong roots, the Ro-
mantics have failed to develop a
strong personality. This should be of
little concern, however, to the Home-
coming crowd. Romantic’s hits, such
as ‘‘What I Like About You,”’ are still
popular frat party fare, and the band
has retained its ability to produce an

stage. In addition, the band displays
seamless teamwork, powerfully re-
stating rock-and-roll themes and im-
ages.

“Picture This,’’ which was formed
six months ago and includes a former
member of the Phonecops, has a mo-
dern rock style. The band has recent-
ly been packing clubs, such as the
King’s Head in the Virginia Beach
area, and is beginning to perform at
area colleges. Picture This’ per-
formance should consist of mostly
original pieces because of their open-
ing act position, though this band
should not be missed. This will be a
good opportunity to see the true col-
ors of a band which is already sched-
uled to return later this year.

With Picture This followed by the
Romantics’ hour and fifteen minute
set, you'd better buy your ticket in
advance. You don’t want to be stand-

 

album and the hit single ‘‘What I Like

tracks on ‘“Rhythm Romance”’ were

absolute rock-and-roll

fervor on__ ing inline when this show starts.

 

CUISINESCENE

By JAMIE BERGER and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

 

Many times ever-upwardly-mobile Washington
and Lee gentlemen or ladies will find themselves
hungry, but unable to leave their penthouse
suites; whether due to intensive studying, or
possibly amorous activities. That is the time cur
W&L sophisticate will call for a delivered pizza.
Prepared to sacrifice our stomachs for the sake of
journalistic excellence, Chris and I decided to find
out which delivered pizza at W&L was the best
overall.

With our verification officer Walt Devine and
assistant referee Stephanie Smith, we placed sim-
ultaneous orders with Frank’s Pizza, Pizza Hut
and Domino’s at precisely 9:08 p.m. Sunday even-
ing. All the calls went through, but Pizza Hut had
the audacity to put us on hold. (Obviously they
didn’t know who was calling.) When they finally
deigned to speak with us, they told us they would
need to call us back at our number to verify our
order. Normally we would not mind this except
that the verification call would delay the making
of our pizza another 30 seconds. And as we all
know, when the W&L sophisticate is craving a
large with extra cheese and Iranian caviar, 30
seconds is an eternity.

Domino’s was the winner of the speed test,
clocked at a respectable 27 minutes, 23 seconds
from call to delivery. We only had a minute to
congratulate Robert the delivery man when
Frank’s arrived, timed at 28:38. Todd, a close se-
cond, was able to confirm that Frank’s is the only
pizza in Lexington made by real Italians and that
the dough is actually spun in the air. For the
status-conscious Mink, that could be a real plus.

Our éyes fixed longingly on the two pizzas; we
waited and waited for the Pizza Hut delivery to
come. After 30 minutes we called Pizza Hut to
make our own verification call. They told us the
delivery man had ‘‘just left,”’ which is the culinary
equivalent of ‘‘the check’s in the mail.’’ Finally,
after a whopping 45 minutes, 23 seconds, the Pizza

 

Putting take-out pizza to the test

Hut man jaunted into our room. We paid him and
slammed the door, because tardiness just isn’t re-
warded in the life on the razor’s edge of a pizza de-
liveryman. Chris noted that aside from Pizza Hut,
the only organization to employ such a dastardly
slow pizza delivery service was the Bast German
secret service, as a way of torturing dissidents.

The taste test was a blind one, with Stephanie
handing us the slices as we averted our eyes. Each
pizza ordered was half plain and half pepperoni
and onions, We would taste a slice of each pizza’s
plain half, then move on to the heavy stuff. We
decided to rate the pizzas on a scale of 10 to 20
since we had never met a pizza that wasn’t at least
a ten. The ratings were as follows:

Domino’s — The plain Domino’s pizza was quite
good. The crust was thick and chewy but there
wasn’t really enough cheese. The pizza was not at
all oily, which can be good or bad depending on
your preference. Another problem was the low
elasticity factor on the Domino’s. The elasticity
factor is when you bit into the pizza and a lot of
cheese strands stretch from your mouth to the piz-
za. A status symbol.

Jamie’s rating—16; Chris’ rating—17

The Domino’s with pepperoni and onion was also
consistently good. The pepperoni was good and
spicy, and best of all, on top of the pizza so you
could count them or pick them off and eat them.
(Although some social pariahs prefer their pep-
peroni under the cheese, I’ve always preferred it
being on the top.) The only problem was the gen-
eral sparsity of onions.

Jamie’s rating—18; Chris’ rating—16

Pizza Hut- At first, this pizza seemed like it
would be good due to a very high elasticity factor,
but, alas, we were tricked. The paper-thin crust
was pre-fab at best, tasting like a bad combination
of pie crust and corrugated cardboard. The cheese
was merely average. A good post-party pizza
when you couldn’t care less what you are eating.

Jamie’s rating—15; Chris’ rating—14

The Pizza Hut with onion and pepperoni won the
worst pizza of the night award. It was the same
bad crust with hardly any pepperoni or onions to

be found. And possibly worst of all, the pepperonis
were under the cheese.
Jamie’s rating—12; Chris’ rating—15

It was about halfway through our taste test that
we began to feel the effects of our sudden ingestion
of so much pizza. Mr. Komosa was even forced to
turn on the fan as the pizzas wreaked the gastro-
nomical equivalent of the Charge of the Light
Brigade. But even with bulging tummies, we
found the courage to finish the taste test.

Frank’s— This pizza rated the best with us in the
plain category. It was a thick, healthy pizza with a
lot of cheese. The crust was very good and the
sauce was mild without being bland. A real melt-
in-your-mouth pizza.

Jamie’s rating—18; Chris’ rating—18

Frank’s pizza with pepperoni and onions was
good, but there were some problems. It was
basically a messy, unevenly distributed pizza.
Chris’ slice had received all the pepperoni. My
slice, on the other hand, redefined the phrase
onion overkill. It had enough onions on it to keep
all but the most brave at bay for a 65-foot radius.

Jamie’s rating—17; Chris’ rating—19

Our one complaint with all three pizza com-
panies was that no napkins were provided. Chris
made quite a mess of himself, and we even had to
resort to using toilet paper to wipe our mouths.
(Some may find that appropriate. )

In taste, Frank’s seemed to be the winner, but
there was one more deciding factor. Twelve hours
later, at 9:33 Monday morning, I arrived at Chris’
room for the final test: the day-old pizza test. Ap-
prehensively, we opened the box, revealing a slice
of each pizza that had been left on the desk over-
night. After a careful tasting, we found that once
again Frank’s was the clear winner. The Frank’s
pizza still tasted fresh and chewy. The other two
did not fare as well, but neither was a clear second
or third place.

Mission accomplished, I had to hurry off for my
C-period class. As I walked down the hall towards
the stairs, though, I could have sworn I heard
Chris sigh to himself, ‘‘This job is hell, but some-
body’s got to do it.” Amen to that.

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS,

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5

31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

BEAUTY

       
     
  
    
     
     
    

hair care, hair cuts, color, or permanents.

107 W. Nelson St., Lexington

   
   

Buy The Phi

See Page 7

 

 

Handcrafted
Jewelry

Unique designs in silver, gold
and porcelain

Artist’s in Cahoots
Gallery

in Old Main St. Mall
at Main and Henry Streets
Mon,-Sat. 10 a.m, to5 p.m.

       
   
   
   
    

 

  

 

 

 

BOUTIQUE

We would like to invite new students to come in for complete

We also specialize in sculptured nails and manicures.

HOURS: OPERATORS:
Mon. through Fri. Mary, Ella Mae, Lynn
Evenings by appointment and Phyllis

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE

Visa

   

 

INC.

      
 
 
  

      

il,

mY

 
 

 

Tape Sale

TDK - D90 - $1.49
Maxell - UDXL2 - C90 - $2.49
Some restrictions apply
Eastern Distributing
463-9703 after 6 p.m.

Modern Dance

Technique Workshop

with
Cynthia Schrat-fletcher
Oct. 16-Dec. 1 1
Wednesdays, 6:30-8:00 p.m.
Call 463-4910 or 463-7444

 

 

 

 

 

463-2422

   

 

Come Play the Games At

The ‘“‘New” Gameroom

located in General Headquarters
Video, Games, Reconditioned Pool Tables, Ping Pong, ete.

Come get a release of energy and challenge yourself.

GENERAL

GHG

My. ye
Mg pauant®®

 

 

M/C

Aluin-Bennis
Welcome W&L Alumni

Alvin Dennis has expanded and invites you to
come in and view our fall clothing.

Our lines features:

Sero Shirts, Woolrich, Izod, and Dean’s Sweaters, Woolrich

outerwear, Dress Corduroys, Duckhead Khakis, Bass,

Clark & Topsider Shoes.

102 N. Washington St.

   

 

 

THE ROMANTICS
Coz Canler, Dave Petratos, Wally Palmar, Mike Skill

So don’t let their

new album fool you
MUSICNOTES

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Music Critic

 

You know, I really hate to do this.

What with the Romantics coming
into town tomorrow and everything,
it seems almost blasphemous to say
anything bad about them.

However, there is no getting
around it. Their new record,
“Rhythm Romance,’ is pretty
worthless.

Well, perhaps not completely
worthless. I suppose ‘‘innocuous’’
might be a nicer term. At any rate, I
sat and listened to this entire record,
and when it was over I said
something like, ‘‘What time is it?”

The album starts off with about as
standard a guitar riff as any Roman-
tics fan could ask for. I, personally,
did not ask for it.

This riff eventually turns into a
song called, ‘‘Let’s Get Started,”
which, in the event that I missed
something, could be the Overture to
this new Romantics Rock Opera.
Sounds like a pretty typical song to
me, though.

I guess ‘‘Mystified,”’ the next
track, is the single, since it steals its
bass line primarily from their last
hit, ‘Talking In Your Sleep.” If im-
itation is the sincerest form of flat-
tery, then quit flattering yourselves,
guys.

The rest of the record is full of in-
stantly forgettable tunes like ‘I Got
It If You Want It’’ and ‘Make It
Last.” (Actually, I really can’t quite

remember what I thought of the rest
of the record since all I hove in my
notes is something like ‘‘pfft!”’

If one is inclined to look, there are
some interesting things on this plat-
ter, though. For one, I’m willing to
bet anyone $50 that the Romantics
come up with the titles to their songs
before the music.

Here’s some more.

e‘‘Be My Everything” marks the
seventh time in their career that the
Romantics have rhymed the word
“chance” with ‘“‘romance.”’

eThey rhymed the word ‘‘mine”’
with the word ‘‘time’’ twice on this
record — in separate songs. They
rhymed ‘“‘time’’ with ‘‘kind’”’ twice,
as well — again in separate songs.

¢‘‘Never Thought It Would Be Like
This’ is particularly interesting
because it allows the listener a prime
opportunity to experience lead singer
Wally Palmer’s endearing lisp.
Check out this chorus: ‘Never
thought it would be like thith/Not like
thith, one look, one kith.’’ Yipes!

eThe addition of new drummer
David Petratos means that there are
only two original Romantics left.

And that just might be the pro-
blem. When the Romantics’ first
album came out, the gimmick was
that they sounded just like the early
Kinks. Now, however, they just
sound like one of those groups that
got bumped off the charts by the
Kinks back in 1964.

At any rate, I personally am still
going to the show and I am also going
to enjoy it. As stupid as they may
seem, they just might also be a whole
lot of fun.

 

presents

The Bomber

by

     

BRITISH KHAKI
by Robere Lighion

22 W. Nelson St.,
Lexington, Va.

 

M.C.-Visa
American Express

 

 

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

‘Best Pizza in Lexington”’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463-3133

$1 OFF Large Pizza or
50° OF F Medium or Small

 

ek eee
—
—
—
 

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

Pee Wee: more than a stand-up comic

MOVIEREVIEW

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

 

The age of the big-screen cartoon is
not dead; it just took Pee-Wee Her-
man to give it some new life. “Pee-
Wee’s Big Adventure’’ found its way
into movie theaters this summer and
put this off-beat comic squarely on
the map as one of America’s newest
stars. His world is surrealism and
satire and his movie is a success.

Anyone unfamiliar with Pee-Wee
might be put off by his quirky man-
nerisms and off-the-wall humor, but
once the audience’s initial shock
wears off, what the audience sees is a
talented and cerebral comic, a
grown-up child whose very life pokes
fun at popular trends of the last 30
years.

The movie, however, is not merely
a standup comic routine; it is a ‘‘big
adventure” that begins when Pee-
Wee’s most prized possession, his
bike, is stolen. He suspects his rich
neighbor Francis, but when Francis
denies any involvement in the crime,

Pee-Wee must turn to his assortment
of friends for help in his search. He is
so distraught, however, that he alie-
nates them and must continue the
quest on his own. This sets the stage
for his adventure as he sets off on a
cross-country search for his bike.

The script by Paul Hartman, Paul
Reubens and Michael Varhol is
brought wonderfully to life by direc-
tor Tim Burton. Pee-Wee’s world is

as much removed from our own as it
is a reflection of our stereotypes. It is
a child’s paradise with good and bad,
toys and magic tricks, and Speck the
dog. The only adults here are simple-
minded and friendly or devious and
evil.

The laughs come constantly. Some
are chuckles; some are roars; and
some are quite simply ‘‘I-can’t-
believe-I’m-laughing-at-this’’ ’s.

Some sequences, like his initial
search for his bike, start subtly and
then slap you in the face. Still, I defy
anyone to go to this movie and not
laugh

‘“‘Pee-Wee’s Big Adventure” is a
romp. It is farce. It could never be
considered a great motion picture,
but it is a good movie that I recom-
mend highly.

‘Compromising’ but not too heavy

Suppose your dentist was murder-
ed. Imagine news comes out that he
had had an affair with just about
every one of his patients but you. Pic-
ture evidence possibly linking one of
your neighbors to the killing, and one
of your friends as one of his frequent,
um, visitors. You’d find yourself, as
Susan Sarandon did, in ‘“‘Compromis-
ing Positions.”

Susan Isaacs adapted her book
about the murder of the lecherous
Long Island dentist Dr. Bruce Fleck-
stein to the screen and has given us a
refreshing, if sometimes slow, com-
edy/mystery story in suburbia.

Perhaps most refreshing is that her
hero is a heroine who has to loosen
the noose of stay-at-home mother-
hood to participate in the investiga-
tion of Fleckstein’s death.

Sarandon is the former-journalist-
turned-housewife who decides this
case is too big a story to pass up. She
bungles her way through the early
part of her investigation enough to
upset and gain the attentive eye of
the homicide lieutenant assigned to
the murder (Raul Julia). Together
they work to solve the mystery, much
to the chagrin of her staid husband

(Edward Herrmann, no relation to
Pee-Wee).

The script has dry humor and a de-
cent mystery to boot. Director Frank
Perry sets the pace a bit slow ‘in
spots, but creates two or three really
good moments of tension as the my-
stery winds its way to the end. And
Judith Ivey is given a number of
great lines as Sarandon’s wise-crack-
ing neighbor.

“Compromising Positions’ is not a
heavy movie by any means. It is,
however, entertaining and worth at
least a casual look.

—By Tim McMahon

School.

Hall.

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 10
2-8 p.m. — Career Symposium, University Center
7 p.m. — Journalism Films: ‘Housing Problems and
Room 203, Reid Hall. 4 :
7 p.m. — Politics Film: ‘‘All the King’s Men” Room 327, Commerce

8:15 p.m. — Glasgow Endowment Lecture: Reading by Guy Daven- 4
port. Northen Auditorium, University Library >

Lee Chapel. 4
11:30 a.m. - 1:15 p.m. — Pre-Game Luncheon. Adults: $5, Children: $3,
New Alumni Field. (Rain: Student Activity Pavilion). ’

1:30 p.m. — Football: Generals vs. Maryville

Friday, October 11 - Homecoming
4:15 p.m. — John Randolph Tucker Lecture: ‘Tax Dollars and the *
Idea of a University” Robert Stevens, President, Haverford College. 5
Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall. i
5 p.m. — Concert: Eric Heinsohn '84 and Roger Day 85 acoustic :
guitarists. Lee Chapel Lawn. (Rain; GHQ)

Saturday October 12 - Homecoming ’
10:30 a.m. — Student Concert: Rob Viennau ’87, David Andrews '87, '
William Ranger '89, Brian Richardson '87, and Cathleen Tiernan '89. »

Tuesday, October 15 a8
7 & 9 p.m. — Journalism Film: “Tol’able David’ Room 203, Reid

Wednesday, October 16
9 p.m. — Wednesday in GHQ: Featuring ‘Locals Only.” Sponsored by
the Student Activities Board. Admission is $2.50.

~~

‘Man of Aran” ,

 

i

 

 

Wendy's. Not vali

FREE

hamburger,

chicken sandwich,

baked potato, or

Pr" ae

FREE

| 44 Ib. Single
fechas

with purchase of any hambu
! chicken sandwich, baked potato or

Garden spot" Salad Bar. Good at participating

with any other offer Please present coupon when
ordering. One coupon per customer Cheese. tomato, bacon extra and
tax extra where applicable.

OFFER EXPIRES: 10/20/85

i CHOOSE FREE. CHOOSE FRESH. CHOOSE WENDY'S. :

“Net weight before cooking

° ‘Net weight before cooking.

 

 

 

HAMBURGERS.

CHOOSE FREE. CHOOSE FRESH. CHOOSE WENDY’S..

 

 

 

A.
al Bes
ws

    

 

(Cuan

Wendy's. Not valid with any other offer Please present coupon when
ae a. ordering. One coupon per customer Cheese, tomato, bacon extra and
zi tax extra where applicable

FREE

    

*Net weight before cooking. |

OFFER EXPIRES: 10/20/85 u

CHOOSE FREE. CHOOSE FRESH. CHOOSE WENDY

r
S&®

1/4 lb. Single
Hemburget

with purchase of any

| 4 lb. Single
ger | Hambur

with purchase of any urg
i chicken sandwich, baked potato or jp
Garden Spot™ Salad Bar. Good at participating |

Ne

© 1985, Wendy's International, Inc. All rights reserved

It's a fresh, hot-off-the-grill offer from Wendy's.

 

Garden Spot Salad Bar.

And while you're wrapping your hands around this delicious offer—
remember that all Wendy's hamburgers are made fresh —never frozen
like those other burger places.

Fresh food. Fresh savings. The choice is even better when you
choose Wendy's.

=

 

 

‘MacGyver’

borders on
ridiculous »

’

TVREVIEW

:

 

By BILL HANNA
Staff Reporter '

 

“Hill Street Blues’? came back
from a poor premiere episode and
this week returned to the style that
has been a trademark of the show
since its beginning. Ve

The cnaracters were once again,
realistic and the crimes were believ-
able. The show left off where it usual’
ly did last year, with the viewer wons
dering what will happen in the next
episode. ;

There was another high point to’
last week’s line-up. ‘‘The Twilight:
Zone”’ on CBS is interesting and done
well enough to compare to the shows'
first run on television under the hand,
of Rod Serling from 1959 to 1964.

“The Twilight Zone”’ should also do
well in its Friday night 8 o’clock slot?
as some good pre-party entertain-,
ment.

Now for the disappointment of the’
week. I figured “‘“MacGyver’’ would,
be a good warm-up for the football
game Sunday night. Both were on’
ABC so the energy needed to change;

the channel could be saved. ;

The plot of the show consisted of an
evil Southeast Asian drug farmer’
forcing people to take care of his?
crops. MacGyver, who is on a mis-
sion to recover some a cannister of
toxic gas from a downed plane for the +

Army, stumbles into the camp. ;

He then convinces the villagers to
revolt against their captor. The show
vame down to the exciting climax *”
and MacGyver employs the skills he ;
had learned in Army special forces
and used ordinary objects to set up a *
defense. The most impressive part of ,
his plan was using a flare, tire and a
jeep to build a bomb. ’

His plan invariably works and *
MacGyver is left to catch the villian ,
as he attempts to fly away in his heli-
copter. MacGyver attaches the hook '
from a hand winch connected to a
jeep and cranks down the helicopter
by himself. '

This sort of heroism, especially the ,
winch segment, is ridiculous. Nobody
could take the scenes or the show ?
seriously with actions obviously im-
probable, if not impossible.

From what I’ve seen of ‘Amazing '
Stories” on NBC and ‘‘MacGyver’’ on
ABC, CBS should clean up on the Sun-
day night 8-9 ratings with ‘“‘Murder,
She Wrote.”

Now for some of the week’s spec-
ials. “Rio Grande’ starring John ¢
Wayne comes on WTBS at 10:05 Sat-
urday morning for something to do '
before the tailgate parties. ;

‘The Deer Hunter” also comes on
Saturday night at 11. Even if you stay :
out late, you can probably catch the 4
end of this 4-hour production.

On Sunday afternoon at 2, channel
13 has the classic, “The African +
Queen” starring Humphrey Bogart
and Katherine Hepburn.

Charles Bronson fans also have one
of his classics on Sunday afternoon.
Channel 5 will broadcast ‘The Me-
chanic’’ at 4,

There isn’t much else out of the or-
dinary going on for the rest of the
week aside from Burt Reynolds mov-
les Monday through Thursday on
channel 12. Shown will be ‘The
End,” “Fuzz,’’ ‘Semi-Tough” and
“White Lightning.”

One last bit of news for anyone
tired of the announcing during the
ABC Monday Night Football games,
and any other night they may be on.
ABC is continuing in its efforts to pull
John Madden away from CBS to liven
up the ABC coverage

 

 
