 

“at

v*

-
me -

.

 

 

 

Sports

 

Panel turns down

NCAA proposal
Page 6

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 6

 

  
    

 

 

 

Delegate race
Candidates square

off in debate

 

Page 3

 
  
   

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

Partly cloudy all weekend with
temperatures in the low 70s

 

King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

OCTOBER 17, 1985

 

 

General
Notes

 

Get a job

The Career Development and
Placement Office plans to offer
businesses and alumni a book of
resumes in an effort to increase
the number and variety of jobs
available to Washington and Lee
seniors. There will be sections for

all disciplines and an indication of Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein, who on v Editorial, page 2.

regional preferences. Monday was named co-winner of the ~ Discovery diagrams, page 4.
If you wish your resume includ- 1985 Nobel Prize in medicine, is a ~ Goldstein biography, page 4.

ed in the book, it must be finished 1962 Washington and Lee graduate ~ Hanna meets winner, page 4.

and into the University Center Of- remembered by his professors and Plagiarism prize?, page 4.

fice by Oct. 25. classmates as a campus leader who

Soviet cinema

“The Cranes Are Flying,” a
1957 film directed by Mikhail
Kalatozov, will be shown Friday
at 7 p.m. in Room 327 of the Com-
merce School. A winner at Can-
nes, this marked the Soviet ‘‘new
wave” after Stalin, in which Rus-
sian cinema became more ‘‘West-
ern” in theme and content, yet
revived its earlier revolutionary
penchant for cinema to graphic
experimentation. It is best sym-
bolized by the most breathtaking

  

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

wins Nobe

 

Inside...

 

    

was involved in numerous activities
at the same time he was racking up a
4.0 grade-point average as a pre-
medical student.

The Dallas resident and his part-
ner, Dr. Michael S. Brown, were
honored by the Nobel Institute of
Stockholm, Sweden, for the team’s
work at the University of Texas that
has led to advances in the treatment
and prevention of hardening of the
arteries.

Goldstein, 45, was class valedic-
torian, Calyx editor, a Zeta Beta Tau
officer and recipient of a slew of

     
   
     

 

Phi Eta Sigma.

“You can’t beat that, can you?”
said James H. Starling, an emeritus
biology professor who was Gold-
stein’s academic adviser, after reel-
ing off a list of his student’s awards
and offices.

“Pre-medical students had their
minds on getting into medical
school...and to hell with the rest of
it,’ Starling said. ‘‘But he did the rest
of it...He’s one of the smartest boys
that’s been through W&L.”’

Goldstein was awakened with the

 

death scene ever filmed in mon-

University of Texas Health Science Center at Dallas

honors and prizes, including Phi Beta

 

tage. This film also marks the
debut of Russia’s first interna-
tional film starlet. Bring your
date and your handkerchief.

SR-C and SRO

Sophie Roper-Curzon, the vc-
cent winner of the British Piano
Makers’ trophy for the outstan-
ding young pianist in Great Bri-
tian, will make her American
debut in a concert at Lee Chapel
at 8 p.m. tonight.

United effort

The second annual United Way
Concert, organized by the Delta
Tau Delta fraternity, will be held
in the General Headquarters
Tavern on Friday, Oct. 25 at 8
p.m. The concert, featuring sever-
al Washington and Lee graduates,
will include music by Tim Eddy,
Wildgrass, Heinsohn and Day,
Rooster Ruley and the New Grass
Connection, and the Stains. There
is a $3 cover charge. All the musi-
cians are donating their time, so
all proceeds will go to the local
United Way Chapter.

Caps for cash

The baseball team has royal
blue mesh and pro-style baseball
caps for sale. Contact any base-
ball team member or Coach Mur-
dock in Warner Center.

Make your day

The Student Activities Board
will sponsor a Clint East-
wood/‘‘Dirty Harry’’ Film Festi-
val this Thursday, Friday and
Sunday nights in Room 108 of the
Student Center. ‘Magnum Force’’
will be shown at 7 p.m. Thursday
and Sunday and 9:30 on Friday.
“The Enforcer” will be shown at
9:30 Thursday and Sunday and 7
on Friday. Admission is $2.

Radio gaga

WLUR-FM (91.5) will broadcast
Washington and Lee’s Saturday
football game from Hampden-
Sydney College in Farmville

beginning at 1:30 p.m.

Poems and stuff

Ariel, the literary magazine of
Washington and Lee, is now ac-
cepting art and literature for the
fall issue. Work may be submitted
to Carol Calkins in Room 104 of the
University Center. For more in-
formation, please contact Bob
Strickland at 463-9815.

General info

“General Notes’’ are run as a
public service by The Ring-tum
Phi. To publicize your non-profit
organization’s event, fill out a
“General Notes’ request form
and return it to the Ring-tum Phi
mailbox, upstairs in the Universi-
ty Center, by 1 p.m. Tuesday of
the week it is to be run. Forms are
available in Carol Calkins’ office
(Carole Chappell’s old office) in
the University Center.

Joseph L. Goldstein, Class of ’62 (left), and Michael S. Brown work in their Dallas lab

50 percent of freshman class pledge fraternities

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

This year’s percentage of freshmen men who
pledged fraternities dropped to 62 percent from
last year, and for the entire freshman class the
figure was 50 percent, according to Interfrater-
nity Council President Jaimie Hayne.

The figures, which the IFC released Tues-
day, show individual fraternities’ pledges
ranging from 24 for Phi Delta Theta to two for
Sigma Phi Epsilon.

At this time last year, 70 percent of the
freshmen had pledged a fraternity. That figure

“ pepresented’a jump-from .63--percent the pre~

vious year.

Of the 315 men in the freshman class, 288
registered for and participated in Rush, said
Sam Svalina, IFC Rush chairman. He added
that within that group, 197 pledged a fraternity.
Those numbers break down to these percen-
tages: 92 percent of the freshmen men regis-
tered for Rush, and 68 percent of the rushees —
or 62 percent of the freshmen men and 50 per-
cent of the class — pledged a fraternity.

The total number pledging fraternities fell
from 265 last year to 197 this year, the first year
of coeducation.

Phi Delta. Theta. reported 24 pledges. last
week, Sigma Nu, 23; Phi Kappa Sigma, 21; and
Phi Kappa Psi, 15. Sigma Alpha Epsilon has 14
pledges, Kappa Alpha has 13, and Chi Psi, Pi
Kappa Alpha and Sigma Chi are tied with 12.

Kappa Sigma has 11 pledges, Pi Kappa Phi
nine, and Lambda Chi Alpha eight. Delta Tau
Delta and Zeta Beta Tau reported six, Phi
Gamma Delta five, Beta Theta Pi four, and
Sigma Phi Epsilon two.

While these numbers do not represent a drop
from last year, Hayne said the IFC had hoped
the percentage of men that joined fraternities
would increase this year.

Last year’s Rush was shortened from pre-

Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa and

 

 

Misspellings on ballots prompt
reruns of two freshman elections

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Two misspelled names on the
ballots for freshman elections forced
a rerunning of elections for two of-
fices yesterday, in order to have the
results ready for today’s runoffs.

Freshman Executive Committee
candidate Abb Jones and University
Council candidate Rosalyn Thomp-
son appeared as Art Jones and
Rosalyn Thomas in their respective
sections on the ballots used in Mon-
day’s election.

They protested the results of the
elections to the EC Monday night,
and the committee decided to rerun
those two races.

In Wednesday’s reruns, neither of
the protestors gained enough votes to
get into today’s runoffs, which are
limited to the top two vote-getters.

To add to the confusion, two can-
didates who made the runoffs Mon-

day were forced out in the re-
elections, sparking further cries of
foul.

In the race for EC representative,
Matt Bryant and E. Wright Ledbetter
participated in today’s runoff, and
Gregory Dale and Frank Sands made
the UC runoff.

Ledbetter and Dale bounced Mark
Newman and Anne Geary out of the
runoffs they had made in Monday’s
balloting. Both Newman and Geary
were within seven votes of the
runoffs in the rerun election.

Newman has voiced his complaints
to the EC, which decided to let the
runoffs stand as they are now.

“They handled it very poorly,”
Newman said of the EC and the
Voting Regulations Board last night.

“T don’t think misspelling his first
name would make much difference,”’
he said.

When asked what he will do about
the situation, Newman said, ‘I’m
not going to whine and complain as

Campaigns cover campus
in the year of 1,000 posters

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

The reason for the Voting Regula-
tions Board’s rules on campaign
posters became evident this week,
when the 50 candidates for freshman
offices each put up 20 posters around
eampus

The posters were limited to legal-
size and could be hung only in Davis,
Gilliam and Graham-Lees dormitor-
ies and Evans Dining Hall. Cam-
paign expenditures were limited to
$20 per candidate,

According to VRB Chairman John
Scannapieco, when there are no
regulations, ‘some candidates spend
extreme amounts of money and the

campus looks like a litterbag.””’

“The same with bed sheets,”’ he
said. “It doesn’t do the school any
good. And 20 posters are more than
adequate to get the message across. ”’

In fact, the record-breaking par-
ticipation of this freshman class may
prompt reexamination of the current
limit, as upperclassmen have observ-
ed that the campus does resemble a
litterbag.

The elections, which were held
Monday, were for the offices of Ex-
ecutive Committee and University
Council representatives, class presi-
dent and class vice president.

‘I’ve never seen this many run,”

See Posters, Page 5

(See Nobel, Page 4

vious years and this year Rush followed a simi-
lar Schedule.

“Last year was a strange year,”’ Hayne said
““Because Rush was not as long as it was two
years ago, I think there was apprehension
about making a quick decision.”’

Hayne said the shortened schedule may have
prevented the percentages of freshmen pledg-
ing fraternities from rising.

Hayne said that he has no figures from pre-
vious years about the number of freshmen that
waited to pledge or were still looking at frater-
nities, but said he thinks the houses who had a
slow starts this year will probably pick up
some of the stragglers later on this year.

 

others did.”’

In the races for class officers Mon-
day, Mike Forrester and John
Hamilton made the runoff for presi-
dent and Ross Singletary and Tom
West made it for vice president.

Monday’s election was marked by
a huge 80 percent turnout. Last
year’s freshman elections had a turn-
out of 51 percent.

Jones, who came in eighth out of 22
in the EC election, presented his rea-
sons for his request for a re-election
by saying that he had spoken to ‘‘at
least 10 people’ who had mentioned
that they would have voted for him if
they had seen his name on the ballot.

John Scannapieco, chairman of the
VRB, opposed a rerunning of the
election because he felt the voting
wouldn't change significantly.

“T don’t think enough votes would
swing to Abb Jones,”’ he said.

Bryant’s winning total was 36 votes
and Newman’s was 26. Jones finished
eighth with 17 votes,

‘“‘We did make a mistake,’’ Scan-
napieco said, but added the VRB had
voted and decided not to rerun the
election, one of the reasons being that
there was little important difference
between the names Abb and Art.

Jones said that since his last name
was so common he was relying on his
unusual first nan.e to help him stand
out in the minds of voters.

Senior EC Representative Pat
Hayden stated his opposition to a re-
election by citing the fact that
although some people may have told
Jones they would have voted for him,
any politician knows that that is an
unreliable vote

In the UC race, Thompson came in
third with 33 votes, just three votes
out of the runoff. The committee felt
that her case was more clear than
Jones’, and that she should either get
a re-election or be placed automati-
cally in the runoff

President John Lewis made a mo-
tion that both elections be re-run
yesterday, and it passed 10-1, with
Hayden against

 

 

 

 

Vy
wt

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Ph

Good chemistry?

Washington and Lee’s 1985 Homecoming Qyeen Ellen Satterwhite kisses
chemistry Professor Keith Shillington at halftime of the Generals’ football
game against Maryville College. For a story on Satterwhite and her court,
see Page 5. Also, details of the 42-17 victory over Maryville appear on Page 6

 
OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

Shelf sex

Ah, the perks of being a member of the ranks of academia.
Professors can set their own schedules, rise late, write
scholarly works on the side for journals of intellectual
thought and receive the praises and kudos of their peers for
work well done.

But this last bastion of the leisured class must also have its
pitfalls. The nights spent trying to decipher Johnny’s and
Joan’s scribblings on the last exam, listening to the whinings
of countless students who cannot possibly take tests on the
assigned day because it is Aunt Josephine’s birthday (sorry,
the excuse just doesn’t fly), and praying that the request for
a sabbatical next term will be returned with ‘‘Granted”’ writ-
ten atop the paper.

Where can a professor find peace? Surely not in the latest
work on Kierkegaard’s last thought or the stirring article in
the last science journal that claims quarks do not exist.
Rather, according to the newest addition to publications at
Washington and Lee, Colonnade, a ‘“‘W&L Faculty-Staff
Newsletter,” faculty who are interested in seeking intellec-
tual repose may do so by searching the ‘McNaughton Shelf
(otherwise known as the Sex and Violence shelf!) in the library.”
(Quote theirs; emphasis ours). Ah, so they like that kinky
stuff. Marquis de Sade, Sheldon, Collins, Jong, and the other
novelists of those books with covers most suggesting? Really,
I expected more of the faculty than that. At least they could
include Barbara Cartland.

So the library considers some shelves within its walls to be
worthy of such titles. I have no problem with that. Just be
sure to let the students know when you get in the latest slap
and tickle volumes so we too can enjoy ‘‘sex and violence”’ in
the library. See you there, faculty. I hope this doesn’t consti-
tute sexual harassment.

—NRP

A Nobel effort

Washington and Lee made national news this week — and it
wasn’t even about coeducation.

Now that’s progress.

Early Monday, word leapt through Lexington that one of
our own — a fellow Traveler — had attained the medical
mecca, the academic acme: the Nobel Prize.

Never had Norse code been as clear: The studs in Stock-
holm had smiled on Washington and Lee — alma mater to the
king of cholesterol, the archduke of arteries. Like the jubilant
father in the delivery room, we looked proud enough to have
done it ourselves.

While it’s true that we actually don’t get even a milligram
of the medal to gloat over, still we feel that somehow a part of
it is ours — an Oscar by osmosis, gilt by association.

Appropriately chastening in our orgy of pride, then, was
the headline that greeted us when, bleary-eyed and gripping
toast slathered with cholesterol, we pawed through Tuesday
morning’s Washington Post.

“School Basks in Nobel Win,” the type trumpeted.
It was referring to the University of Texas.

Gulp. We're left feeling a bit like the poor bloke who sold
Shakespeare notebook paper.

This fleeting vortex of visibility, though, has the potential
for being a stupendous shot in the arm for Washington and
Lee in its ongoing effort to burnish its cachet of quality, its
mantle of merit.

Think of it as manna from Sweden.

A top-flight national reputation for General Lee’s college
isn’t out of reach — as long as it isn’t out of mind. We aren’t
there yet, but we’ve taken some crucial steps in that direc-
tion, and have among us many with a bold, unwavering com-
mitment to that vision.

The Nobel notoriety could be the start of something
awesome.

Strike that.

It could be the continuation of something awesome.

Hike the tax

Two weeks ago, organizations made their pleas before the
Executive Committee for student body funds for the year. No
request escaped the cutting edge of the EC’s budget subcom-
mittee. The proposed allotments for over $150,000 were pared
to under the nearly $100,000 limit. It was no easy task.

No budget was in perfect form when it was submitted to the
EC. There was, as there always is, room for cutting. But cut-
ting and cutting until a limit is reached is neither necessary

&

ce

a Ench Kiss burned...”
l

  
      
   

“Additions to ‘Sex

Faculty-staff newsletter headline:

 

A"
1 ye acreDne

ia, OT "The body leaked
fll Ps 7a as foun “a
Me ig Uy Yat 4
Bsy &e “ e te
Ove ny 7 hg shy

and Violence’ shelf in library.”’

Sti ©
TT +: fF =
ee o- nan names -

 

 

 

MY VIEW

By John Pensec

 

Students who feel that their pro-
fessors are a little too liberal now
have a place to turn. There is an
organization in Washington that
wants students to notify them of
any questionable teaching on the
part of their professors. The name
of this self-styled public service
organization is Accuracy in Aca-
demia.

Accuracy in Academia was set
up about six weeks ago as an off-
spring of Accuracy in Media. The
group hopes to notify the taxpay-
ers of these objectionable teach-
ings through a newsletter. To
date, no publication has been
printed.

What they are hoping to hear
are examples of propaganda, in-
doctrination and misinformation.
These terms seem too strong, and
they have dangerous implica-
tions. One would expect a profes-
sor of attempting to brainwash a
student. I have trouble accepting
that.

Another thing that does not sit
well is the title of the organization.
Who decides what is accurate, and
what criteria do they use? Les
Csorba of the agency used the
term ‘“‘propaganda,”’ but what one
person terms propaganda is
another person’s belief. AIA
claims to want to make the class-
room an open forum where ideas
can be debated. Aren’t they
hindering that by determining
what is proper and what is not. Do
they have a right to do that?

After receiving information
from a student, the agency will
contact the particular professor
and hear his version of the story.
If it turns out that the student took
something out of context, the mat-
ter is dropped. Otherwise, the pro-
fessor’s name and teachings may
be used in a newsletter. Such
publicity would have adverse ef-

 

fects on the professor.

 

No filters for
classroom bias

It is interesting to note that at no
time does the student have to iden-
tify himself. The agency encour-
ages him to, but there is no obliga-
tion. In the preliminary stages of
an investigation, anonymity is not
bad. If, however, there will be
publication of the incident, I be-
lieve it is in the best interest of the
agency and the professor to re-
lease the name of the student.
Otherwise it could turn into an
honor trial, where the defendant
can be tried and convicted without
knowing his accuser.

I can agree with the basic prin-
ciple of Accuracy in Academia.
Classrooms should be open to de-
bate. They should become a place
of learning for both the students
and tbe professors. If, however, a
teacher presents an opinion that is
contrary to that held by the stu-
dents, the student can report him.
What can the professor do? He
was doing his job by attempting to
open the eyes of the student. If
they are blind to that, what is to
happen?

According to Csorba, no one at
Washington and Lee has been re-
ported. I am glad. It would be a
sad day here at the University
when a student felt that he could
not confront his professor.

There are problems at every
school. If there weren’t the school
would not go anywhere. Problems
force people to examine a situa-
tion and improve upon it. That is
the way schools and people grow.
But any rough edges should be
worked out within the confines of
the educational institution. To do
otherwise is asking for trouble. It
would almost be like asking one
small group of people to deter-
mine, according to their value
system, what should and should
not be taught in our schools.

I was told that Accuracy in
Academia has received many let-
ters in praise of its operations.
There have probably been enough
to fill several garbage cans. That
is where they belong. Let’s leave
the business of education, and all
the problems that come with it, to
the schools.

Captain America

HIS PARENTS WERE ALWAYS TELLING
HIM HIS STAR WARS WAS TOO EXPENSIVE.

I'M GOING TO
WPL WHERE THEY DON'T

THE CAPTAIN DECIDED TO RUN AWAY
FROM HOME.

r

 

 

 

 

 

PAST MARS...
JUPITER...

 

 

Debater ‘bugged’ by

‘uninspired’ article

To the Editors:

evident; that of Mr. Bugg is some-

We?
foiews wear \ AROUND HERE Sri \ |

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

j i i WeaeaGes  .. e hawa era is Mika Klien 4
_— wn nt. Nor should every group receive every penny it re- Th b oe what more difficult to discern. SS ee eo ON .. Paul F sink ’ 4
Mees. e piece by your reporter sean Richard Graves Cotton Puryear '
. =e : Bugg titled “British debaters blast Class of '87 Managing Editor .... Reade Williams 4
Many organizations, needless to say, were a bit upset by ys. missiles” was a real gem. His sports Edler, vas ~ Mik Stach j
the low funds they received. Some groups had worthwhile re- _ rather uninspired account of that : aac amiies ae ‘
quests that, because of insufficient funds, went ungranted. lively contest was no doubt the result Corrections ee Jim Strader a
ee : of his not having attended — or let us Cartoonist... . «+ Chris Bowring
Last year, we thought the student activities tax did not hope that was the case. How else - a 28 >
need to be raised, despite the Board of Trustees’ recommen- _ could he have claimed that gees mente Bed - bo Advertsing Manage asia
dation to the contrary. This year, the budget process showed ee aaeth —_ = . =< = sauiink tata en I onaaier slanen Advertising Salesmen . ++ Keri Hinrichs
. : ‘ + ‘ : Mg oude
that a tax increase might be necessary. Just a $5increase inf. ider our opponents’ keen wit, | from the Athletic Department. Aion

the student tax would bring in $8,500 in additional money, jt Lock had no opportunity to doso, | Last week's Ring-tum Phi incor-

Jay Reville

enough to cover the budgets allowed for the Political Review, as he had no speeches following | Tectly reported that three other | | 7¥: hingw thiispunianed ever Turade during ihe undergraduate schol ear
Ariel, Mock Convention, Independent Union, MSA, Film Soc- __ mine. To err is human, but Bugg’s clubs also had that option. denne privity irom bverilsing sad bom 3 partion cf ote eee Pw
iety Fencing Team. and the International Club for this year. next snafu is divine: He supported Due to an editing error, last Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring es Pa
A tas ‘ Po . ified ially to meet his incorrect statement with a quote week’s issue misidentified the is otherwise independent SS J

X raise Seems imminent and justi 1e ’ especi y snipped out of context from one of my Snack Bar manager. He is Ri- Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of

 

 

the requests for many groups next year. We hope the EC and
The Board of Trustees will consider such a move.

the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Thi

own speeches! The professionalism chard L. Armstrong. oa -ee new

of our opponents in that debate was

Paper

 

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

Four clubs
give practice
in languages

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Students who want to use their
foreign language skills outside the
classroom have several clubs to help
them accomplish this.

Four language clubs are preparing
for this year’s activities — the Chi-
nese-Japanese Club, the French
Club, the German Club and the Span-
ish Club.

The Chinese-Japanese Club is ‘‘not
really a formal one, but it’s for peo-
ple interested in Asian countries,”
two founding members, George
Chang of Hong Kong and Yukie Kuri-
hara of Japan, said.

The club hopes to promote the ex-
change of information about differ-
ent cultures among the three stu-
dents from Hong Kong, four from Ja-
pan, and other students on campus.

Although there is no formal French
Club, students are meeting on Wed-
nesdays from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Gen-
eral Headquarters tavern to practice
speaking, Professor Adoracion Cam
pis said.

Tim Thomas, president of the In-
ternational Club, is helping organize
the German Club this year,

Kirk Follo, a German professor
and the club’s adviser, said, ‘‘It’s go-
ing to be very informal.”’

“The group has been in existence
for two to three years now, and has
been composed mainly of students
who have come back from Germany
and who want to keep their German
current,” Follo said.

The Spanish Club had its first
meeting Tuesday, and seven people
attended.

Paul Vail, a junior, hopes more
people will come, and he wants the
club to remain casual.

The club plans to meet every week
on Tuesdays from 4:30 to 6 p.m. at
the Alumni House.

 

 

The campaign trail

Republican gubernatorial candidate Wyatt Durrette
(center) shakes hands with senior Gerald Shepherd at
Saturday’s tailgate party before the Homecoming foot-

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

ball game. Durrette graduated from Virginia Military
Institute and the Washington and Lee Law School in
1964. On the right is Jim Jones, a 1977 W&L graduate.

Girard given
work release

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

Senior Gene Girard has been plac-
ed in the Rockbridge County Jail’s
work release program after Circuit
Judge George E. Honts III said he
had no objection to Girard being out
of jail during the day.

Honts’ decision, which came in a
hearing last Wednesday, put the final
decision of whether Girard would be
on the work release program in the
hands of Sherrif S.M. Reynolds, who
runs the county jail

Reynolds said yesterday that
Girard is being released each work-
day from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and on
Saturdays when necessary.

Girard’s lawyer’ Laurence Mann,
filed a motion asking for work
release for Girard, who pleaded guil-
ty in Augu.st to cocaine possession

and received a six-month sentence

Girard has about four months left
in jail. He is still registered as a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee, where
he was a star running back for the
football team.

Mann said Girard’s time on work
release will include working on a
thesis for W&L and on Access, a local
public service program that locates
areas that need to be modified for ac-
cessibility for the handicapped

“That was a prerequisite’’ for the
work release, Mann said.

Honts said in his ruling that work
release for Girard would be in line
with similar cases involving stu-
dents.

Clerk of Court Bruce Patterson
said, ‘‘He is of the opinion that once
he’s in jail, it’s up to the sheriff
whether or not he lets him out on
work release.”’

EC finishes budget matters with $400 adjustment

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Although the Executive Committee
Monday voted to increase the budget
allocation for one organization, it
declined to increase the budget for
the Film Society, whose advocates
had complained to the EC about its
allocation.

The EC voted to reduce the $2,400
allocation for the Ariel, Washington
and Lee’s literary magazine, to
$2,000 and give the extra $400 to the
Mock Convention. The reason for the
increase in the budget of the Mock

Convention, which is in the planning
stages for 1988, was to counter last
year’s $366 debt that was not report-
ed with the budget request.

EC President John Lewis said he
had received letters protesting the
Film Society’s allocation of $1,000 in-
stead of the $1,600 requested.

“We didn’t cut them as much as
some of the others,”’ Vice President
Andrew Caruthers noted.

He commented that the Film Socie-
ty was “‘very successful and very
good,’’ but he objected to the socie-
ty’s policy of paying projectionists
$20 a night for setting up the film for
viewing.

Delegate challenges opponent’s

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

The Amherst School Board vice-
chairman who is challenging Repub-
lican Delegate Vance Wilkins Jr. for
the chance to represent Virginia’s
24th District declined at a public
meeting Tuesday to offer an ex-
planation of why his locality was one
of only two in the state to deny its
school teachers a 10 percent raise
this year.

Democrat Dennis Brown met Wil-
kins in Virginia Military Institute’s
LeJeune Hall Tuesday evening for a
question-and-answer session, which
the League of Women Voters spon-
sored.

Brown ‘has been on the school
board for six or seven years, and he
has not developed enough rapport
with the [Amherst County] super-
visors, or at least three of them — a
fair majority — to get them to put the
money where he wanted them to put
it,” Wilkins said in his opening state-
ment.

Brown made newspaper headlines
when he accused Wilkins of being
responsible for the Amherst County
supervisors’ decision to withhold
from the county’s schocl board part
of the money that was to pay for the
higher salaries of its teachers.

‘*Now I think the school board may
have played a few games with the
supervisors and got the supervisors a
little upset,’’ Wilkins said. ‘‘And the
supervisors decided not to put all the
money we sent them from Richmond.

“Mr. Brown says that somehow for
some reason because I didn’t speak
up soon enough that it was my fault. I
showed a lack of leadership,’’ Wil-
kins said. Brown’s role in the situa-
tion has to be put in perspective, he

suggested.

Wilkins then offered his opponent
the chance to answer his questions in
place of his prepared opening state-
ment.

Brown declined the offer and in-
stead outlined his reasons for seeking
office.

“Tt want to bring to this office a
positive and aggressive approach to
government,”’ Brown read from his
statement.

A “philosophical concern that
things should be done in a different
manner to achieve the best results
possible for all those involved’ is one
of the bases for his campaign, he
said. ‘“‘When I personally do not
agree with a certain situation or how
something is done, I either need to
get involved with it or keep quiet.”’

“I want the people of my district to
know who I am,” Brown said. “‘AndI
honestly and sincerely want to know
their feelings. I want to provide

responsive answers to their ques-
tions.”’ :

In response to. the question of
whether school board. members
should be elected or appointed,
Brown said, “I have no problem with
elected school board members under
one condition. And that condition is
that if I as a school board member
am elected then I would have the
power to tax. That provision must be
made,”’ he said.

Wilkins said localities should be
able to pick which form of selection
to use.

Annexation laws, as they are now
written, are no good, Wilkins said in
response to one question. The legal
process is too expensive, he said.
Also, the people who are most direct-
ly affected have no input in the deci-
sion process.

Brown said he favors the non-politi-
cal and objective features that the
annexation laws have. But he said
some people are making a lot of
money as the process now operates,
and therefore the laws may need
modification.

The Virginia commission on the
status of women has existed for five
or six years, and has usually had a
budget of about $40,000. This year,
the commission’s budget is $84,000.

‘As far as I can see, they’ve pro-
duced a couple of handbooks, a few
pamphlets, and have gone to a few

“We are paying a projectionist to
push a button and watch a movie,”’ he
said and went on to suggest that the
group should adopt a policy to havea
student start the film if he would be
watching it anyway. “‘I think that so-
meone would be more than happy to
push the button and watch the
movie,”’ he said.

Discussion continued about student
attendance at the films. Caruthers
said professors and townspeople are
the majority of the users of the Film
Society.

“The students aren’t using it,’’ he
said.

record

meetings ... and have done little

_, @lse,’’ Wilkins said. ‘‘I think there are
_ probably more important places we

can put our money.”’

Wilkins also said that Virginia does
not discriminate against women in
state government. In fact, women
have the advantage because they are
the majority of the population, he
said. ‘‘They can speak for them-
selves, and they can take care of
themselves.”

Brown said the top priority of the
issue should be eliminating wage
discrimination. He said he supports
equal pay for equal work and also the
state’s proposal to evaluate certain
jobs.

When a member of the audience
asked the candidates how they plan
to keep in touch with their consti-
tuents once in office, Brown said he
promises to organize regular town
visory committee comprising citi-
zens of all backgrounds.
of all backgrounds.

“Going to carnivals and lawn par-
ties is fun,” he said, “‘but there is
generally no serious discussions that
take place as far as we need to get
done.”’

Wilkins said his legislative aide,
Arthur Beeton, is ‘‘a local phone call
from most everybody on this side of
the mountain. He is well known as be-
ing accessible,” he said.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

The budget was passed again with
those two changes

In other EC action

eThe EC voted to create a meeting
space for the cold check committee
by asking the Independent Union to
give up its meeting room and meet in
Fairfax Lounge

Sophomore representative Pat
Schaefer said the cold check commit-
tee, officially known as the Student
Financial Relations Committee, was
being forced to meet in the lounge
because of limited meeting rooms on
the night it meets.

Schaefer mentioned that this seem
ed “‘unofficial’’ and ‘‘just not right”
because the lounge offers little pri
vacy and the purpose of the commit
tee is to discuss students’ money af-
fairs.

eConcern was expressed as to the
progress of the overdue Calyx, which
was scheduled for distribution at ma-
triculation this year but still hasn't
been sent to the publishers.

“This has turned into a horrible
situation,’ Caruthers said.

The EC asked 1984-85 Calyx editor
David Sprunt to give a progress
report next week.

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Challenger Dennis Brown speaks while Vance Wilkins listens

Future of University Council will be decided later in year

 

 

Staff reports

 

A review of whether the University Council should
continue to exist will not be held until later in the aca-
demic year, according to Dean of Students Lewis G.
John.

John, who with senior David Sprunt serves as co-
chairman of the UC, said that at one time or another
“every organization needs to be reviewed”’ and that a
review of any organization is held to make sure that it is
serving the needs of the University community

The UC is an advisory committee made up of 12 stu-
dent representatives, nine faculty representatives and
five administration representatives. Its purpose is to
give students involvement in the University govern-
mental process dealing with student affairs.

When asked what would be done if the UC was found
unnecessary, he answered: ‘I really haven't given it a
great deal of thought.’ John said he plans to deal with
the matter in more detail when the review is held

—Sean Bugg

University Cleaners owner killed

Townshend D. Fox, 33, owner of University Cleaners,
died Saturday night when his car hit a tree in
Rockbridge County, state police said

Fox was driving on state Route 631 at 8:15 p.m. when
he swerved off the road and hit a tree He was pronoun
ed dead at the scene

Sse

 

Fox is a New York native, and attended Randolph-
Macon College in Ashland

Other items from Lexington Police records:

eJunior Tom Maurer reported that between midnight
and noon on Saturday, an $800 Korg synthesizer and a
$300 Peavey speaker were stolen from his home at 5 Lee
Avenue.

eLaw Professor James Phemister reported his wallet
stolen from his office in Lewis Hall on Thursday.

Another professor, Steven Hobbs, said he saw a suspi-
cious person leave the building.

The wallet contained three credit cards and $100.

«Sophomore Baxter Sharp reported the hood orna-
ment was stolen from his car. The theft occurred some-
time between 10 p.m. Saturday and 11:20 p.m. Monday.

—Marshall Boswell

My Lai trial judge to speak

Col. Reid W. Kennedy, the judge at the trial of Lt.
William Calley Jr., will speak at Lee Chapel Oct. 23 at 8
p.m. The title of Kennedy's lecture, jointly sponsored
by W&L’s Tucker Law Forum and Virginia Military In-
stitute, is ‘‘A Soldier’s Duty to Say No.”’

Kennedy was thrust into national prominence in 1969
when he was selected to preside over the Calley trial.
Calley, a platoon leader in the America 1 Division, stood
trial for the murder of more than 100 civilians in Viet
nam. Evidence indicated that many soldiers in the unit

refused to participate in the killings, although others
shot to death inhabitants of the village of My Lai, in
cluding women and children.

Kennedy is a veteran of World War II, Korea and
Vietnam. He received his law degree from Drake
University in 1946 and now practices law in Marietta.
Ga.

In addition to his lecture, Kennedy will speak to cadet
groups at VMI on Oct. 24.

Student convicted of wine theft

Senior Bill Zola was convicted in Lexington General
District Court Tuesday of stealing a tub of wine valued
at $160 from Spanky’s restaurant in May

Judge Joseph E. Hess fined Zola $50 and gave him a
30-day suspended sentence for the misdemeanor
charge. Zola has indicated that he will appeal, accord
ing to Clerk of Court Juanita Rice.

Chinese art lecture is scheduled

T.K. Yen, professor of history at Soochow University
in Taiwan, will present a slide-lecture titled ‘‘Chinese
Art Treasures in Taiwan’”’ on Oct. 22. The lecture, at 8

p.m. in du Pont Auditorium, is free and open to the
public.

Yen is a 1948 graduate of the Chinese Naval Academy
in Tsingtao. He received his master’s and Ph.D. de
grees in Asian history from St John’s University i

New York and taught for a year at Seton Hall Universi

ty. In 1980, Yen was appointed associate professor in the
department of history at Soochow University, and was
promoted to full professor a year later

Truman scholarship available

Washington and Lee sophomores interested in a
career in government service at the federal, state or
local levels are invited to apply for a 1986 Harry S
Truman Scholarship

Established by Congress in 1975, the Harry S. Truman
Scholarship Foundation operates a continuing educa
tional scholarship program designed to provide oppor-
tunities for outstanding U.S. students with potential
leadership ability to prepare for careers in government
service

Washington and Lee can nominate two students for
the 1986 competition. The scholarship award covers eli
gible expenses up to $5,000 per year for the junior year,
the senior year, and two years of graduate study

To be eligible, students must be full-time sophomores
working toward or planning to pursue a bachelor’s
degree, have a ‘‘B’’ average or equivalent, stand in the
upper fourth of the class, and be a U:S. citizen or U.S
national heading toward a career in government

Interested students should see Dean of Students

ewis G John in Room 6 of Payne Hall as soon as possi

 

Die€
a aoe ee

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

 

Nobel

) Continued from Page 1

 

news early Monday in Cambridge,
Mass., where he was attending a con-
ference at the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology.

The co-winners held a brief press
conference complete with a black-
board and toasted each other for the
network television cameras. They
obligingly clinked their champagne
glasses twice for the photographers
that missed it the first time.

Goldstein and Brown then flew to
Dallas, where in the early evening
they greeted 50 members of the press
and 450 well-wishers.

Prior to that, their staff gave them
a champagne party in their labora-
tory, which a spokeswoman said is
“strictly illegal but they did it
anyway and had a great time.”

The spokeswoman, Ann Harrell of
the University of Texas Health
Science Center, said Goldstein is
declining all interview requests.

“They said ‘no’ to everybody,”’ she
said, noting that things had been
“bananas” in the office since the an-
nouncement in Stockholm.

Harrell said Goldstein turned down
invitations to appear on ABC’s ‘‘Good
Morning America,” ABC News’
“Nightline,” ‘The CBS Evening
News’ and other programs.

“‘The ‘Good Morning America’ pec-
ple were very surprised,” she said
with a trace of sarcasm.

Harrell, who has known Goldstein
for 12 years, spoke affectionately but
candidly about’ him, painting a por-
trait of a hermitic workaholic that
contrasts starkly with the image of
the outgoing campus leader his pro-
fessors and classmates remember.

According to Harrell, Goldstein is
“amiable” and ‘‘witty’’ but ‘very

reclusive” and ‘almost painfully
shy.”’

Goldstein has inspired “incredible
loyalty” among his staff, despite be-
ing a demanding boss, according to
Harrell. ‘‘He’s a tough taskmaster,”’
she said. “He drives those peo-
ple...from the secretaries to the
faculty members.”

The prize winner’s interests out-
side academia are limited, Harrell
said. ‘‘All I know that he does for fun
is that I have seen him go to foreign
movies before,” she said.

Harrell added that the main social
outlet for Goldstein, who is single, is
that ‘‘he talks to his colleagues about
science stuff.”

The spokeswoman said the co-win-
ners ‘‘make a real strange couple
and they’re always together.”’ She
said the two are known around the of-
fice as ‘‘the Gold Dust Twins”’ or as
““Jomike” and “Brownstein.”

The $225,000 in prize money will be
split between Goldstein and his part-
ner. USA Today reported that Brown
plans to spend the money on his two
daughters’ education, but Harrell
said she could not speculate about
how Goldstein will use the cash.

“T don’t think he spends money,”
she said.

W. Hayne Hipp, a member of the
W&L board of trustees who was a
classmate of Goldstein’s, said his
work will be “‘a very positive reflec-
tion on Washington and Lee.”’

Hipp said Goldstein was ‘‘a consis-
tent academic leader” who was ‘‘an
enjoyable person to spend time
with.” The trustees said that when he
saw his former classmate on televi-
sion, he ‘‘was surprised to see all the
gray hair he has now.”

Starling, the emeritus biology pro-
fessor, said the vicarious Nobel Prize
was the biggest honor of his career.
“Tf I were physically able to do
{somersaults ], I think I would have,”’
the 73-year-old said.

Hanna gets 5 minutes
with harried Goldstein

Just three hours after hearing
Monday morning that Washington
and Lee might have a Nobel laureate
on its hands, University Publications
Director Jeffery G. Hanna was wing-
ing his way to Dallas to attend a late
afternoon news conference at the
University of Texas Health Science
Center.

tequipped with tape recorder and
camera, Hanna joined the media
horde assembled to greet and grill

W&L alumnus Dr. Joseph L. Gold-
stein and Dr. Michael S. Brown in an

auditorium at the medical school.

Hanna, who returned to Lexington
Tuesday night, said everyone in the
room, including the journalists, clap-
ped when the two entered the room.

‘‘Whether you're covering them or
not, you can appreciate what these
guys did,” Hanna said. “This is
something that deserves applause
from everybody.”

Following the press briefing, Han-
na, who edits the University alumni
magazine “W&L,” finagled a five-
minute interview with Goldstein
before he was whisked away for din-
ner with one of the university deans.

Hanna, who is preparing a profile
of Goldstein for the magazine, quoted
him as saying: ‘Dallas has always
been known for Neiman-Marcus, the
Dallas Cowboys and the TV show
‘Dallas.’ Maybe we added something
to that.”

Hanna said Goldstein’s interest in
W&L seems to be limited. ‘‘He didn’t
seem to retain much, to be honest,”’
he said.

But after talking with a classmate
of Goldstein’s who still talks with him
often, Hanna said he gained a differ-
ent understanding of the Nobel Prize
winner.

“T got the impression that he re-
tains strong memories of his under-
graduate days,’’ Hanna said.

He added that he might have gotten
the wrong impression from Goldstein
because of the doctor’s state of mind
when Hanna spoke with him.

“Considering the kind of day that
Dr. Goldstein had, I would say that
discussing Washington and Lee was
the furthest thing from his mind,” he
said.

“‘T think he was surprised to find so-
meone from the University there. It’s
hard to judge on the basis of any con-

tact under the circumstances just.

what his feelings toward W&L are
now ”’

Hanna said the benefits that may
accrue to the school because of its ¢co-
winner connection are as yet unclear.
“T did tell him we would take full
credit for this,”’ he said, tongue clear-
ly in cheek. ‘‘He did laugh at that.”

“It’s hard to know just how these
things help,’’ he said. ‘I think we
capitalized on it just by being assoc-
iated with it.”

'

NOBEL NEWS

Dr. William J. Watt, a chemistry
professor and former dean of the col-
lege of arts and sciences, observed
playfully that having a student win a
Nobel Prize ‘‘doesn’t happen to you
very often — it’s never happened to
me before.”

The professor, remembering Gold-
stein from a freshman laboratory
course, added that ‘‘he was the kind
of person you would expect that from
if you had any student who was going
to excel in such a way.”’

Watt noted that Columbia Univer-
sity’s Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize, of
which Goldstein and Brown were co-
winners in November, is widely view-
ed as the “next step to the Nobel
Prize.”

The award, according to a New
York Times account, went to the pair
for the ‘‘conceptual brilliance and ex-
perimental elegance’ of its “‘pioneer-
ing”’ research in the field of choles-
terol-related diseases.

Just as Goldstein’s campus activi-
ties spanned the spectrum, his acade-
mic ability also extended beyond the
natural sciences.

‘‘He had a perception of literary
values and literary qualities,’ said
English Professor Sidney M.B. Coull-
ing, who taught Goldstein romantic
poetry. ‘“‘He bridged the two cul-
tures.”

The professor noted that in a pre-
medical program, “‘it’s hard to have
the kind of all-around record’’ that
Goldstein achieved.

“‘He was, in short, a campus leader
and valedictorian — a rare combina-
tion,” the professor added. ‘I think
we all predicted success for him.”

The Calyx of which Goldstein was
editor-in-chief was dedicated to
Coulling and Economics Professor
Charles F. Phillips Jr.

Dr. W. Barton Dick, a Lexington
orthopedic surgeon and classmate of
the prize winner, reflected the com-
petitiveness common among pre-

 

JOSEPH L. GOLDSTEIN, 1961

Fast facts on

Joesph L. Goldstein was born April
18, 1940, in Sumter, S.C. He received
his bachelor of science degree from
Washington and Lee University in
1962 and his medical degree from the
University of Texas Southwestern
Medical School at Dallas in 1966. He
continued his study at the Massachu-

med students with his wry comment
that Goldstein ‘‘wound up valedictor-
ian of my class — that speaks for
itself.”’

Rockbridge Circuit Judge George
E. Honts III, who as a freshman lived
in the same dormitory section as
Goldstein, recalled that the only ‘‘B”’
his classmate ever received was in
physical education, which was not in-
cluded in official grade tabulations.

Honts said that when Goldstein
took an organic chemistry class with
some of Honts’ fraternity brothers,
the future Nobel laureate scored a 99
percent while the next highest grade
was in the 60s.

“He royally screwed the curve for
all the other fellows,’’ Honts said.

Goldstein's father, Isadore E.
Goldstein, said he learned of his son’s
award from a relative who'd heard it
on a television news program. Gold-
stein’s son checked in about an hour
later, at 7:30 a.m.

“We heard about it before he did,”’
Goldstein said Monday from Kings-
tree, S.C. ‘‘Hedoesn’t really get over-
ly excited — not like I would have or
somebody else would have.”

Goldstein, a retired clothing retail-
er, said he’d previously discussed the
possibility of a Nobel Prize with his
son, but “never harped on the sub-
ject.”’

“He said they usually didn’t get
them until they got up there in age,”’
the father recalled. ‘‘Every time J
mentioned it to him, he would dis-
miss it.”’

Goldstein said his son, who first
became interested in pursuing a
medical career during his early high
school years, ‘‘liked Washington and
Lee the first minute he was there and
he never regretted it.”’

News Office Director Brian D.
Shaw said University plans for hon-
oring Goldstein are not yet complete.
“I’m sure something will be done at a
later date to recognize him,’’ he said.

 

JOSEPH L. GOLDSTEIN, 1985

Goldstein

has worked for the National Heart In-
stitute at the National Institutes of
Health in Bethesda, Md., and at the
University of Washington School of
Medicine in Seattle. Since 1977, he
has been a professor in and chairman
of the department of molecular
genetics for the University of Texas

setts General Hospital in Boston and - Health Science Center at Dallas.

 

The Nobel Institute apparently
wasn’t impressed only by Brown
and Goldstein’s laboratory work
— it seemed to like their way with
words, as well.

The last sentence of an article
by the team in the November 1984
issue of Scientific American said
that with an understanding of the

 

Nobel for plagiarism?

LDLs and receptors, ‘‘it may one,
day be possible for many people to
have their steak and live to enjoy
it too.”

The Nobel citation released
Monday echoed the phraseology,
noting that now “it may one day
be possible for many people to
have their steak and eat it too.”

 

 

Confused?

On Tuesday morning, the nation’s newspapers scrambled to explain to
their readers what an “‘LDL” is, how a “receptor” works and what it all
means to us. Here are two publications’ explanations of Goldstein and
Brown’s contribution.

Look from L.A....

bie ee) me el

 

©1985 by the Los Angeles Times. Reprinted with permission.

Detail from Dallas...

Heart

 

Liver Dietary cholesterol is carried into the
bloodstream on water-soluble proteins,
fos known as low-density lipoproteins or
- LDLs, which are produced in the liver.
eo?
ss
se The LDL is enciosed A surplus of

© and pulled into the cell,

4 where enzymes trigger
. the release of

vi cholesterol for the

cell's use.

cholesterol alerts the
cell to stop producing
its own cholesterol, to
begin storing the
unused cholesterol
and to stop forming
LDL receptors.

   

wen

® ©

LDL molecules attach
to receptors in
indentations on cell
surfaces.

 

 

©1985 by The Dallas Morning News. Reprinted with permission.

LONDON INTERNSHIPS

A full term of upper-level courses taught by expert British faculty combined
with a 9-week internship in your future career area. Sessions run Spring,
Summer, and Fall for each Programme listed below:

 

BUSINESS/ECONOMICS

@ Coursework in European Economics and
International Business,

@ Intern in British and Multinational firms, banks,
brokerages

Covering London.

JOURNALISM/MASS COMMUNICATIONS

@ Intern for local British newspapers, magazines, TV
and radio stations, PR and advertising firms

@ Coursework in British Media, Advertising and PR
practices in England, The Foreign Correspondent:

 

 

@ Intern with Members of Parliament, campaign
and local officials, pressure groups

© Coursework in British Government, International
Relations,

POLITICS

 

 

 

LEGAL STUDIES

@ Intern with barristers, solicitors, lobbying groups,
and in legal departments of British and
international firms

© Coursework in British Legal History, Business/
Government Relations, Public Law and Social
Issues,

NAME:

Check Desired Information:

 

ADDRESS:
CITY.

(] LONDON BUSINESS/ECONOMICS
(_] LONDON POLITICS

 

STATE/ZIP:
PHONE: (

(-] LONDON JOURNALISM/MASS COMMUNICATIONS
(] LONDON LEGAL STUDIES

 

 

— January-May 1986 W— May—August 1986 ~—  Sept.—Dec. 1986 — 1987

 

 

 

 

 

+s REPOS pat

Send to: Dean Timothy Perkins, College of Arts And Sciences, 403 ME Northeastern University,

360 Huntington Ave., Boston MA 02115 Phone contact: (617) 437-3980, 437-3970

en RPG EE PIT NO

 

 
 

,

Students
double up
in library

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

Some of the locked study rooms in
the lower levels of the University
Library are being shared by two stu-
dents this semester.

Because of the high number of stu-
dents and faculty applying for the
limited number of rooms, University
Librarian Barbara Brown decided to
enlist this new system on a trial
basis.

The library contains 31 of the lock-
ed study carrels but received over 64

_ ‘applications for this term.

There were 10 honors students,
nine professors and nine seniors as-
signed to single rooms, and six addi-
tional seniors paired off to share the
three additional rooms.

Two rooms were left unassigned so
that students in academic difficulty
or experiencing an extremely heavy
workload might be assigned to them
on a weekly basis.

Brown explained that the idea was
“worth trying’ in order to put the
rooms to as much use as possible.
She said it may mean that those stu-

 

2

fa
=

a

 

  
  

  

—

7

cae

 

ee

saa
.
cal

7
<

=

7 Fa

      
 

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Jeff Mandak (left) and senior Steve Losquadro share a locked study in the library

dents with a study-roommate may
have to ‘‘organize study and research
schedules more effectively.”

Scott Boyd, a biology major who
was assigned a carrell with senior
Chris Komosa, described the system
as a “real hassle.”” He and Komosa
have divided the semester in half,
which Boyd pointed out would leave

him in possession during exam time.

Another senior asked to share,
Paul Davey, had no complaints. He
said that in the time he’d been work-
ing in his study room, he’d ‘‘never
seen the [other] guy. He’s never been
in there.”

The locked study rooms were in-
cluded in the library to give honors

students working spaces near the
materials needed for research.
Honors students who are writing
honors theses are automatically as-

_Signed a space.

Professors are the next to be con-
sidered, and many who are on sab-
batical or working on private re-
search apply.

 

Posters

O Continued from Page 1

Scannapieco said. “I’ve been quite
impressed.”

As the elections approached, pos-
ters popped up on dormitory doors,
street signs and the glass door to the
dining hall.

Inspector J.A. Kirby of the Lex-
ington Police Department explained
that posting handbills on telephone
poles, sidewalks, crosswalks, curbs,
lamp posts, or in any public place
without permission is a violation of
the City Code.

Students who are guilty of these
violations ‘‘can be charged with a
misdemeanor charge and face a
court hearing, in addition to taking
all the signs down if we catch them,”
Kirby said.

David Alderson, manager of Evans
Dining Hall, said that students are
welcome to post bills on the bulletin
boards in the dining hall but are ask-
ed not to put posters on the glass door
so students can see through the door
and will not run into each other.

Originality was not limited to the
posters’ placement. One urged voters
to “‘git your sh-t straight.”

 

 

ART

  

stretch canvass.

Lk Bb Glee Sipply

STATIONARY

Come by for all your office supplies, and
alos all your art supplies. We have
everything you'll need for your artistic
talents including paint, brushes and even

“You always see posters like that,”’
Scannapieco said. “‘They’re not run-
ning on a speech. That’s your choice
if you want to put something on a
poster.’”’

Anne Geary, a freshman candidate
for the University Council, agrees
with the limit on posters ‘‘because it
could get really out of hand.”’

She does, however, think that
speeches or an assembly would facil-
itate the voters’ ability to recognize
the different candidates.

“Tf the VRB would just explain
briefly the duties of each office,”
Geary suggested, ‘‘and say ‘these are
the people running,’ then go on to the
next office. Nothing lengthy.”

Scannepieco agrees that speeches
help the voters know the candidates.
“The Executive Committee position
is very important,’’ he explained. If
you don’t know who they are, how
can you vote?”’

He notes that open forums have
been held in the past ‘‘but attendance
was slim.”

Scannapieco said there haven't
been many campaign infractions this
year, but that he did remove one pos-
ter that was too big.

“T took it down because it was near
the polls and I didn’t want anyone to
have an unfair advantage,”’ he said.

GIFTS

  

 

 

23 WEST WASHINGTON STREET * LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 244S0
TELEPHONE: (703) 463-3432

 

 

 

 

 

 
    
   
    

 
   
 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A dormitory door is adorned with campaign posters -

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985, Page 5

Shillington crowns
Pika representative

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

“It was like one of those kisses on a
Certs commercial. It lasted for an
eternity. I was overwhelmed!”’

Those were the words of Ellen Sat-
terwhite after she was crowned
Washington and Lee’s 1985 Home-
coming Queen and received the tradi-
tional kiss from chemistry Professor
Keith Shillington.

Satterwhite represented Pi Kappa
Alpha, which was also represented
by last year’s queen, Kathleen
Plante.

Although she was a little hesitant
at first because her boyfriend, senior
Tim Stanford, couldn’t escort her,
the Mary Baldwin junior said she has
no regrets at all.

When asked how she felt at the mo-
ment she heard her name being an-
nounced, Satterwhite said, ‘My
pulse raced! I’m still in shock from
winning!”

First runner-up Polly Paton, who
called herself ‘‘the one who'd rather
not kiss Professor Shillington,” prov-

    
   
     
 
  
   

 

211 E. 21st, Buena Vista

 
     
   
      
      

Mon. — Sat. 8:30-5:30

 

FUN T-SHIRTS

From infamous international
bars, taverns and saloons.

Free Catalog
Passport Internationale

159 Rutledge
Charleston, SC 29403

His & Hers
Hair Unlimited

Keep Your Tan Year
Round With

Suntana Sun System

October Special
10 Sessions for $29.99

ed this at Saturday’s game. During
their embrace, Shillington whispered
to Paton, “If we’re going to wrestle,
I’m going to win.”’ Paton said, “The
more I resisted, the more aggressive
he got.”’

After the chaos of the weekend sub-
sided, Paton, a Sweet Briar junior,
said, “It’s all in good fun. I really en-
joyed it! Representing Phi Kappa Psi
was a great honor.”

The queen was not the only one
receiving awards this weekend. The
freshmen halls were trying to create
the most creative banner. The con-
test, sponsored by Domino’s pizza
and Kathekon, the student alumni as-
sociation, was planned to create sup-
port for the Homecoming football
game, where the banners were
displayed.

The third floor center section of
Graham-Lees dormitory came up
victorious and was awarded a $75 piz-
za feast from Domino’s.

“‘When we found out that food was
involved we really got psyched!”

said Lucy Anderson, a freshman on
that hall.

  

  

Thurs.—Nightly Appointments

Buy 1 pair of Shoes at Reg. price, and get another at
—_ ae
Friday & Saturday only (Oct. 18 & 19)

23 N. Main St. Lexington, VA

 

(703) 463-5988

 

 

167 S. Main St., 463-3106
Stop by and open up a charge
account for all your grocery needs.
This Week’s Specials are:

eChicken of the Sea Tuna. .611..= 2/$1.00

©Old Milwaukee Beer
©Phillip’s Pork & Beans

©Coca-Cola

 

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years.

 

Apply tor the TIME College Achievement Awards and find
out. TIME Magazine ts searching for 100 college juniors who

ics and, more importantly, exceptional achievement outside
the classroom The top twenty winners will be awarded
Ameri

Time Ine. + The an Expres

The College

 

 

HOW FAR WILL YOUR TALENT TAKE YOU?

$1,000-$5 ,000 and profiled in a special promotional section
in TIME. Eighty finalists will receive certificates of merit. All
100 students will be given first consideration for internships
with participating corporations, some of which are listed

have distinguished themselves by their excellence, in academ-

Iravel Related Services Company, Inc. + Ford Division + U.S. Navy Officer Program

TIME

Achievement Awards

below. () Details at your dean’s office or call 1-800-523-5948,

 

 
SPORTS

 

 

A coach’s life:
|. plain frustrating

.... Everyday, at least half of us come
to the general conclusion that we
have a good deal of unpleasantries in
our comings and goings. Midterms
are coming up, our Homecoming
date says she’s no longer interested,
and that class we were hoping to
slide through suddenly came up and
spanked us in the face. And we’re
saying, ‘“‘Hey, man, I didn’t ask for
all of this. I wish my lite were easier, like maybe if I could switch lives
with one of those coaches over in Doremus or even over at VMI. Yeah,
that would be cool, two hours for lunch and the toughest things I have
to do all week is make third-and-4 decisions.”’

Well, if you think that, you might be surprised by this statement
(perhaps surprised enough to change your mind, maybe”): ‘As usual,
I'll wake up about 2:30 in the morning and start reliving the game. I’ll
still be fussing and grumbling about the mistakes .... I’m already wor-
ried about the next one.”’

That’s VMI’s first-year head football coach Eddie Williamson com-
menting on the joys of coacbing after the Keydets’ 23-19 win on Satur-
day, his first victory since taking the reins next door.

No, frankly, I don’t see the life of the coach as one of ease and
minuscule irritation as we might think. It is not a joyride, campers.
Sentiments like those from Coach Williamson, I’m sure, could be
echoed from all four corners of the world, from every Pop Warner
coach to the best boss in the big leagues.

It’s that mysterious entity called human potential that these
gentlemen (and ladies) deal in everyday. Plain old frustrating, that. A
coach should know everything about his players, and that knowledge
is the cause of his odd habits, like Williamson’s insomnia. He knows
what you can do, and when you don’t do it, so logically he’s got tc
scratch his head and wonder why. (Apparently, Tom Landry hac
much head scratching in his day. )

Much of this sounds like so muck talk about parents rather than
coaches. Well, the analogy certainly works. A coach’s paranoia is cer-
tainly on a par with parental paranoia. No one wonders more about
college-age persons than someone who needs you to carry the ball the
next day.

But the concern, if we are taixing about a coach worth his salt (I
believe there are a few out there), goes beyond carries and whether
you figure in the win. It’s that concern that plagues a coach into the
night: ‘I know they can do it, but why don’t they?”’

The life of a coach is a life of ifs and fine lines. It’s that halftime
speech that isn’t doo discouraging, but not so rah-rah that any positive
effect is dulled. It’s the ability to bring out the best in someone, and in
the end, when that best comes out, it is the special, wordless
acknowledgement, one only coach and player can share, that serves
as a coach’s greatest reward...

....Winding our way back to the Colonnade, it was nice to see a cou-
ple of shutout wins for the W&L soccer squad...Cross country is back
on line after the LSATs. Should be a dogfight come conference meet
time...And the footballers stole the show Saturday afternoon. didn’t
they? No doubt this squad is near the cream of the crop in the ODAC.
However, Hampden-Sydney this Saturday undoubtedly would like
nothing better than to bring the Generals off their high horse. And
anything could happen in Death Valley, especially when that hex sign
of a human being Lisa Birnbach will be in Farmville as the “guest” of
the Squids....

....Heard Lefty Driesell wants the NCAA to get tough before college
athletics are ‘‘really in trouble.”” Thanks, Lefty, you just go ahead and
hop on that bandwagon whenever you see fit...NFL owners are
meeting this week to decide to use the instant replay. Some other in-
teresting ideas will be considered, most notably, a measure to deter-

mine division winners via a playoff. A good thought that (snicker),
playoffs for the playoffs. Do I hear the wailings of the NHL in the

TIME
OUT....

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

....Well, since I didn’t get too many college grid guesses wrong last
week, here are some more to laugh at: Virginia over Va. Tech (and it
will be ugly), Michigan over Iowa and Alabama over Tennessee....

....Finally, not to knock Saturday’s officials or anything, but I will.
The men in black and white didn’t use common sense with their flag-
throwing escapade at the end of the game. Flags were thrown on six of
the last seven plays. The key to good officiating also involves knowing
when not to blow the whistle...

 

 

INCAA Council nixes

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

 

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

At the outset of the season, despite
a loss to Emory & Henry and a less
than impressive win over Centre, you
couldn’t find anyone involved with
the football program who was not ex-
cited about the team’s prospect for
the rest of the season. Now, with two
impressive victories in a row, in-
cluding last week’s 42-17 drubbing of
the Maryville Scots, it seems that the
optimism shown at the start of the
season is beginning to pay off.

The scoring got started when tail-
back Kevin Weaver ran for 20 yards
and a touchdown in the first quarter.
B.J. Sturgill added the extra point
and W&L led 7-0.

Maryville came right back, how-
ever, and scored when W&L quarter-
back Jon Thornton slipped and fell in
his own end zone, making the tally 9-7
in favor of the Scots. In the second
quarter, Maryville added field goals
of 48 and 43 yards to push the score to
15-7 as the teams went to the locker
rooms.

During the first half, W&L didn’t
move the ball as well as they have in
the past. They were stifled by the
Maryville defense, and often faced
third-and-long situations. The second

Maryville’s Jeff Seagle goes ‘‘belly-up”’ in action from Saturday’s game

Scots ‘kilt? by W&L, 42-17

half, however, was a completely dif-
ferent story. The team came out of
the locker room and immediately be-
gan their comeback.

The defense, although yielding 394
yards through the air on the day,
picked off six passes to give the of-
fense excellent field position. Not
wanting to waste the opportunities,
Thornton threw four touchdowns, two
each to Hugh Finkelstein and Chris
Bleggi, and Weaver ran for another
on the way to a 35-point second half
explosion and the victory.

The team that looked mediocre at
best.in the first half abruptly became
intimidating in the second half. What
was behind the sudden rejuvenation
of both the offense and the defense?

“In the first half, on a couple of
their long receptions, our guys had
‘frozen feet’,”’ explained Coach Gary
Fallon. ‘‘We saw the mistake, made
the mistake known to the players and
they were able to correct it in the sec-
ond half.

“They [the defense] got the turn-
overs, and put us in good field posi-
tion in the second half,’’ Fallon con-
tinued. ‘“That was the most impor-
tant factor in the success of the of-
fense in that half.”’

Tailback Kevin Weaver rushed for
108 yards on 24 carries, giving him
three 100-yard efforts in the three

 

 

multidivisional ban plan

The NCAA Council voted not to
sponsor a proposal that would bar
member institutions from participat-
ing in more than one division in meet-
ings yesterday in New Orleans, ac-

cording to Division III staff liaison’

Ruth Berkey.

The decision puts up a stumbling
block for the proposal’s chances to
come before the full National Col-
legiate Athletic Association conven-
tion, scheduled for Jan. 12-14.

The move, which reserved the
Council’s August decision to sponsor
the legislation, doesn’t necessarily

put an end to the proposal. A group of
six member institutions can bring the
legislation before the convention.

Washington and Lee, which cur-
rently participates in Division I in
lacrosse while the rest of its teams
competes in Division III, would be
forced to commit to one division
— most likely Division III — if the
legislation comes before the full con-
vention and passes in January.

The vote came after the three divi-
sion steering committees made re-
commendations to the Council yes-
terday morning.

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Mon, - Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

115 S. Main Street

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘‘For your extra pieces of furniture’’

463-2742

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

‘Best Pizza in Lexington’”’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463-3133

! $1] OFF Large Pizza or
1
! 50° OF F Medium or Small

 

GRADUATE
SCHOOL OF
4- BUSINESS

William J. Heffernan, Associate Dean, will be on your
campus Monday, Oct. 21, 1985 to speak with students
from all disciplines who are interested in th M.B.A. and
Ph. D. degree programs. Twelve concentrations are of-
fered in the Business School plus joint degree programs
with the Schools of Architecture, Engineering, Interna-
tional Affairs, Journalism, Law, Public Health, Social
Work and Teacher’s College. For further details please
contact Career Development and Placement.

COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

    
  
  
  

SAVE MONEY!

 

21 W. Washington St.

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Going home for Thanksgiving or
Christmas? Plan ahead,

“System One Computers”
“Boarding Pass Printers’
— 3certified travel consultants —

463-7174

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

games since returning to the lineup.
In those three games, W&L has
scored 11 touchdowns, all but four in
the air. When asked if having Weaver
in the lineup increases the efficiency
of the passing game, Fallon had this
to say:

“Yes, very much so. Most of our
scores were play-action passes off of
Kevin.”

Fallon continued, “They [the
Maryville defense] would bring two
linebackers inside in order to choke
off the inside run; this allowed us to
complete some long passes to Hugh
[Finkelstein] out along the
sidelines.”

“T like to have a balance between
the run and the pass,”’ said Fallon.
“Tf you live by one or the other, even-
tually you’re going to die by it. And
that, I think is what happened to

Our
‘6 ‘Typing’ 9
Is

WordPerfect»

DATA SERVICES

203 N. Main Street

 

fein
ld eee |

» *

4 7 y

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Maryville in the second half.”’

SIDELINES....the Generals are now
3-1, 2-1 in the ODAC ...Next week’s
opponents are the traditional arch-
rival Tigers of Hampden-Sydney and
the W&L defehse will have a different
challenge before them. Maryville
came into last week’s game with the
best passing offense in the league;
Hampden-Sydney is known for their
effective running game...H-S has a
3-2 record; they are 1-1 in the
ODAC...The Tigers were stifled by
ODAC leader Emory & Henry last
week, 31-10....W&L has not defeated
H-S in their last three meet-
ings...Last year the Tigers beat the
Generals by a score of 41-21 as H-S
running back David Kelly ran for 213
yards on 20 carries...Game will be
broadcast live on WLUR-FM (91.5),
beginning at 1:20 p.m...... ¢

 

Lexington, Virginia 24450

2077 Magnolia Ave.

(703) 261-6933

The New

Entertainment Center

Is Now Introducing It’s
New Line Of Albums
and Tapes
At $7.69 ea.

VCR Rentals
Movies

$2.00 a night
$2.00 ea./night

 

Lifetime Membership

$9.95 includes
12 Free Movie Rentals

 

 

i.
> Ts. SF"

 
—S

ne

> + * & >

>»

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985, Page ?

 

Wa&L kickers win two on the road

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

While most of the W&L community
was busy with Homecoming celebra-
tions this past weekend, the soccer
team was out on the road doing some
celebrating of its own by recording
wins over Sewanee and Maryville
and then returning to Lexington for a
win over VMI yesterday.

Things were not all fun and games
on the road. A flat tire delayed the
Generals’ arrival to Sewanee, Tenn.
and the University of the South. Their

play, however, was nothing short of
inflated Thay nraved that thev eanld

 

By LEIF UELAND

Staff Reporter

 

Though the Washington and Lee

“water polo team continues to have a

winning record (11-9), the team is by
no means celebrating.
With little exception, the Generals

“have continued to either blow their

opponent out — by as much as 20
points — or be blown out themselves.

As the team’s season heads for the
home stretch, however, head coach
Page Remillard is asking some ques-
tions regarding his team’s attitude.

One possible explanation for the
team’s performance is that they are
simply a good team stuck between a
group of bad teams and a group of
great teams. While this is true to an
extent, Remillard sees more of a pro-

dish it out as well as take it in what
Piranian called a physical contest.

Corky Parkinson, Charles Lyle,
Bill Holmes and Johnny Sarber did
the scoring as Chris Gareis notched
the first of what turned into three
straight shutouts.

Against Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rival Maryville, the of-
fense was not quite as potent, tallying
just one goal. However, it was
enough as the defense and Gareis
were able to keep the Fighting Scots
off the scoreboard. Mike Veliuna
scored the winning goal for the
Generals.

On Tuesday, the Generals played

blem on paper, with a team that ap-
pears so superior to last year’s team,
yet has failed to outshine last year’s
efforts.

This quandary was brought to light
by last weekend's performance in the
Southeast Varsity Invitational. While
the Generals played well in their
losses to Navy, 14-4, and Brown, 16-4,
and their 14-12 victory over MIT,
their 11-7 loss to Harvard was un-
mistakably an unpleasant sign, ac-
cording to Remillard.

The team fought to a 6-5 lead in the
first half of the match. As the team’s
starters began showing signs of fa-
tigue in the second half, Remillard
looked to the bench, whose depth
W&L has considered one of its advan-
tages. The face of the game changed
dramatically in the second half when
the Generals were out scored 6-1.

“‘When the bench got the call, they

host to the Keydets of VMI, gaining
their third consecutive win and
Gareis’ fifth shutout.

Freshman Sarber scored his sixth
goal of the season just three minutes
into the game off of an assist from
senior John Templeton, and W&L
quickly found itself up, 1-0.

Not content with only one goal, the
Generals pounded away until 16:32
when Veliuna connected for his sec-
ond goal of 1985. The Generals then
assumed control of the game, and
with some fine goaltending again
from Gareis, W&L kept VMI from
scoring for the remainder of the first
half.

Polo team looks good on paper only

didn’t answer it. That’s the players’
fault, [and] that’s the coach’s fault.
It comes from having a lackadaisical
attitude,’ commented Remillard.

For the Generals, that ‘‘attitude”’
is key.

“It’s Tuesday and I don’t feel any
better. I don’t see the agony of defeat
affecting the players. If the agony of
the loss isn’t there, then the win at
the end of the year won't be excit-
ing,” Remillard stated. ‘‘The season
hasn’t panned out for them the way
they thought it would, and they’ve
gone into remission.”

At Tuesday’s practice Remillard
worked at bringing the team out of
“remission.”’

Remillard had his charges set up a
scrimmage but without the participa-
tion of co-captains Tim Stanford and
David Lewis. It was an effort, he said
“to show them the seedy side of life:

Harriers are back on track

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

The cross country Generals got
back on the winning track with a
.defeat of visiting Catholic University
23 to 38 Saturday morning.

With the Homecoming alumni look-
ing on, the harriers won easily,
despite not nailing down the top spot
in the race. They did, however, gain
five of the top seven spots, which ac-
‘counted for the victory.

* Once again Eddie Goundry per-
formed well by placing second with a
time of 27:54, followed closely behind
py Scott Rippeon who finished third
in 28:18. Ted Myers, Michael Watson,
and Michael Friedman added all the
weeded support by finishing in the
fifth through seventh positions re-
spectively.
4

“Coach Dick Miller commented,
**We ran well and were finally able to
get everyone back together.’’ The
Generals, however, are still not com-
pletely healthy. Richard Moore re-
mains out with a torn achilles tendon,

and Billy Clark continues to be ailed
by shin splints.

W&L will run against Division I op-
ponent Virginia Commonwealth Uni-

Ce ee ee eg eee

Mains Mes te

Core

By Appointment 463-9588
Robin« Peggy * Marie

versity this Saturday at home at
11:30. VCU is the only Division I team
that W&L will run against this year.
The W&L women harriers will run
against VCU also on Saturday.

p> <a

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA asa

ee

THE NEW OPTICIANS

Contacts—Glasses—Repairs

Raybans - Vuarnets
10% OFF

(703) 463-7440

Next to Stop-in

 

 

 

é
—_

|| Southern
- [nn

Welcome

Students
‘Serving breakfast, lunch

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

THURSDAY,

 

 

113
13
J
| and dinner for over
|
L

463-3612

THE FUTURE IS IN
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

A representative will be on campus
OCTOBER 24,
to discuss

GRADUATE STUDY

THUNDERBIRD

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL
OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
GLENDALE, ARIZONA 85306
Interviews may be scheduled at

CAREER DEVELOPMENT & PLACEMENT

1985

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON PRESCRIPTION CENTER

Phone 463-9166

LEXINGTON

Emergency Phone 463-2671

11 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

 

:

i 110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington

' 463-3338

'
Hours:

‘

‘

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

lt

TELL US HOW YOU LIKE IT

George’s

HAIRSTYLISTS

Located at 136 Varner Lane
Directly behind Leggett
with plenty of parking

Phone: 463-3975 or walk in

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Cocktails@ Wine@ Beer

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

 

  
  
     

 

 

In the second half, W&L became
hesitant with the ball and lost the
momentum. VMI quickly exerted
some offensive pressure, only to be
frustrated by the W&L defensive
wall. The fine defensive play from
the Generals led to W&L counterat-
tack opportunities, and with less than
a minute to play, a third freshman,
Mike Drusano scored the game's
final goal.

 

The win was the third straight
W&L victory over VMI in the schools’
annual meeting.

The 5-3 Generals look to keep up
the defensive stinginess as they head

to Gettysburg for a match on Satur-
day.

having a program where no one
cares,”

Remillard said responses to the
test varied. While some players were
visibly frustrated by the lack of
leadership and coaching, he said,
others seemed to come alive in re-
sponse to the ease with which they
could key on the mistakes of the op-
posing team. They did not appear to
realize that the mistakes were those
of their own teammates.

This weekend W&L will travel to
Richmond to play in the second round
of the Southern League tournament.
It will be an opportunity for the team
to get out of its mental slump.

No one is more sure of this than
Remillard. “It certainly isn’t some-
thing that one can’t conquer. I still
need to see principles. The roster is
wide open as to who the real tough
athletes are.”

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

VMI’s Daniel Schnock (23) battles a W&L player for the ball

 

8-10 Mon. - Sat.

10-7 Sun.

463-3146

trot 47

Danish Ham or Butterball Turkey
Buy 1 lb. get 1 lb. Free!

Call Us For
Your Party Needs

 

BORDEN
COMMONS ao

Lexington's First Condominium Community

 

 

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successtul welcome from the community and quickly

out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts. we are introducing Phase Il ot Borden
Commons.

These new and beautitul condominiums are designed to tultill vour every need. and they re locate

Ftheh

just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.I. and th

IStTOTIC LEXINE TON ¢

Isn't it time you considered the ease and tinancial rewards of condominium living

It you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre
sentatives to help you.

Baker Real Estate
Post Ottice Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 2

Ottice (703) 463-73]9
Dick Emrey (703) 4603-4362 (evenings I

R.|
WM DAaKer

 

 

6 pk. 16 0z. non-ret. "Lia? &

 
‘BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

‘Works On Paper’ provides |
outlet for contemporary art |

 

By BOB STRICKLAND
Art Critic

 

The latest show at duPont Gallery,
“Works on Paper,’’ is just that. The
four Virginian artists represented
here have chosen paper as the sur-
face upon which to create their par-
ticular images. ‘Works on Paper”’
not only allows four young, contem-
porary artists from the area to show
as a group, but it also provides an
outlet for contemporary art to a con-
servative community that would
otherwise be unaware of the present
trends in art. One does not see in this
exhibition a collection of visual
cliches seen too often in area artists;
rather, some of the works resemble
what one may find in a Soho or East
Village gallery.

The work of Beth Shively, an artist
from Roanoke, is striking in its
simplicity of form and symbol. The
symbolism and imagery, however,
are far from simple: The central im-
age is that of desire, of possession.
The.central image is embodied in the
image of the center of the paper. In
“‘Helen’s Dream of Troy” the horse
becomes a primitive, simplified sym-
bol of material possession. She is not

interested in creating an accurate |

likeness of anything in particular,
whether it be a horse or a cat; in-
stead, she is concerned with

Spain.” Room 203, Reid Hall

Public invited.

ington Presbyterian Church.
lins. Room 6, Robinson Hall.

merce School.

All students invited.

Commerce School.

nedy (USA, Ret.). Lee Chapel.

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 17
7 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILMS: “Spanish Earth” and ‘‘Heart of

8 p.m. — CONCERT: Sophie Roper-Curzon, Pianist. Lee Chapel.

Friday, October 18
All Day — Historic Rockbridge County Quilt Show. Murray Hall. Lex-

3:30 p.m. — MATH COLLOQUIUM: “Steiner Points.’’ Michael Col-

7 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM: “The Cranes Are Flying.’ Room 327, Com-

Saturday, October 19
All Day — SYMPOSIUM: “A Warm Tradition: Collecting and Preser-
ving Quilts” Northen Auditorium, University Librarv.

8:30 p.m.-12 midnight — ‘‘Wildgrass” in GHQ. $2 cover charge.

Monday, October21 oS
7:30 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM: “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” BBC Series. Northen Auditorium, University Library.

Tuesday, October 22
1-3:30 p.m. — ROTC M-16 OPEN SHOOT. Military Science Building.

7-9 p.m. — FILM: “The Last Laugh.” Room 203, Reid Hall.

Wednesday, October 23
1-3:30 p.m. — ROTC M-16 OPEN SHOOT. Military Science Building.

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM FESTIVAL: ‘‘Mickey One.” Room 327
8 p.m. — LECTURE: “‘A Soidier’s Duty to Say No.” Col. Reid W. Ken-

9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY IN GHQ: Featuring A.A.E. Sponsored by the
Student Activities Board. General Headquarters. Admission is $2.50.

iconology. She draws much of her
ideas from Byzantine iconology and
from symbols found in Pompeii.

Although one does not find quick,
gestural brushwork here as found in
other spontaneous artists’ works,
Shively does find a creativity in spon-
taneity. Her ideas are subject to her
mood at the moment. Shively never
makes a sketch before her final ex-
ecution; instead, she takes notes of
her feelings. There is a definite
underlying psychology to her work
that refuses to be connected with the
material world. The symbolic eyes
which stare out at the world, ask the
viewer to question himself, to allow
for a moment of introspection.

The visual subject of Larry Stene’s
“Column II” (1985) is one ap-
propriate for this university. It is also
appropriate for a Lexington artist
who desires to recreate his surround-
ings and experience. The profound
and austere gray column is nicely
offset by a collage background of
what appears to be old encyclopedia
engravings of wildlife. The austere
nature of the column is emphasized
by Stene’s monochromatic palette.

“Summertide”’ is not as represen-
tational as Stene’s ‘“‘Column”’ series.
Here, he seeks to achieve an image of
a place in a nonrepresentational
manner, in this case, the sea. One
finds the romantic qualities of the
ocean in the lyrical, flowing lines.

Compiled by Marie Kothman

 

 

po ee ee

The pastel colors and smoky areas of
the work recall the ocean. In ‘Marsh
Shells,” Stene again recalls place
and time by suggestive colors and
forms; aqua and pink hues recall the
sea and the sand, cut-out semi-
circular forms resemble shells, and
blue slashes of color become the ebb
and flow of the tide.

In the work of Ryan Russell, the
viewer may see images which resem-
ble worn-out landscapes at first im-
pression, but turn into dramatic pro-
jections of inner moods after several
acquaintances. In ‘Landscape in
Turmoil’’ the mood is dramatic, fore-
shadowing quick and violent change.
The clouds are bruised and hang low.
To Russell, art becomes an outlet of
dialogue between himself and the
world; at the same time, his art
allows him to project himself onto his
work. Indeed, his landscapes repre-
sent a state of mind at the time of ex-
ecution.

The dramatic lighting seen in his
landscape series is similar to that
found in the work of Edward Hopper.

Deanna Sirlin considers her works
drawings. She asserts that the same
linear movements found in her draw-
ings are used in these works with Ca-
sein (a type of paint between oil and
acrylic) as the medium. Because
these works are drawings, they are
monochromatic. In her drawings,
she seeks to achieve the same fluid

 

 

  
  

y

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Deanna Sirlin’s ‘‘Stars Out Tonight”’ is on display at the duPont Gallery

movement as in painting, instead of a
graphic movement.

Sirlin makes her place between re-
presentation and abstraction. She
considers herself a_self-figurative
painter. Her landscape series refers
to an area in upstate New York.
These works become vehicles for

nostalgia and memory and relate
how memory distorts the recollection
of place. The characteristically ex-
pressionist loaded palette is necessa-
ry for the Gestural movement
through space. This gestural brush-
work is specially suitable to the emo-
tionally charged nature of her work.

She explores a place between dream- —

ing and consciousness, a place be-
tween dreams. Indeed, her work is an
inner-directed representation of such
external forms as mountains, sky,
and leaves. These images represent

 

x mt
aw

visions from an emotional and visual

standpoint.

‘The Insiders’: good plot, comic relief

 

By BILL HANNA
TV Critic

 

This week, I am going to pay a little
attention to afternoon television. You
don’t see how the shows do in the
ratings and you don’t hear much
about what’s on so I’ll have a few of
my favorite highlights, but first some
reviews of prime time.

I was sitting around Wednesday
night waiting for one of those ‘“‘un-
scheduled, spontaneous” fraternity
parties to begin and decided that
there must be something on the tele-
vision from 8 to 9 to keep me busy.

I wasn’t about to watch ‘‘Highway
to Heaven,”’ and “‘Stir Crazy’’ didn’t
seem to be the best bet, so I switched
to ABC and watched ‘‘The Insiders.”

The show is based upon a report-
er/photographer team always on the
lookout for big stories. Nicholas
Campbell plays plotting reporter
Nick Fox, while Stoney Jackson
plays Mackey, an Eddie Murphy-
type who seems to be able to con his
way out of any tight spot.

Both use their street sense to un-
cover local crime, giving the show an
interesting twist on the average de-
tective show.

The show has an interesting plot
and some good comic relief that is
worth watching before a trip to GHQ
for a band or a party at the fraternity
house,

 

    

Pizza
Hut.

 

 

Pri-az-Z0

(Pre-ott-so) you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzorm Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

$4 OFF

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut®
restaurants

Please preser up when
ash redemp 1983 Pizza Hut Inc (

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

on
Pizza

  
 

“Hut.

10-30-85
(OA FS PE FR TS es aN SY PUN A Rem SE DP ABE ER eH

rdering Not validir bi

$ gor

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA
453-7000

 

| SERVIGTAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware

463-2242

 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

i need your head for
my business.

 

 

 

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

On Saturday night, I founa myself
in a similar situation. I had just come
back from dinner and had about an
hour before heading back out again
and decided to watch “Airwolf,”
although not completely by choice.

This show did not have the quality
“The Insiders’ showed on Wednes-
day night. ‘Airwolf’? comes on CBS
every Saturday night at 8 and is a
disappointment.

The show has some potential with
adequate acting from Jan-Michael
Vincent and Ernest Borgnine and a
ridiculously-equipped helicopter,
resembling the KITT car on ‘‘Knight
Rider’, but the plots are poor.

Last Saturday, the show centered
around a child with Down’s Syn-
drome who had the ability to draw
things accurately from memory.
This skill is used to locate his kidnap-
ed father, as he draws a replica of the
house his father is being held in. With
the help of the supercopter, the house
is found among the many others on
the crowded hillside.

This week, the writers have come
up with another extraordinary ability
to save yet another kidnapped vic-
tim. This time a psychic helps to
locate the missing person.

It’s not enough that the show uses
this gadget-filled helicopter, but for
two straight weeks, the writers have
brought in some special out-of-the-
ordinary human. When a show has to
resort to such lengths to entertain the

The Romantics kicked off the ’85 pavilion season last Friday night

4
SAB concert an overall success'

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Editor

audience, you can’t expect much to
come of a plot. Next time, dinner will
be planned for later.

Moving on to afternoons, there i:
not a lot to offer, but enough for those
tired of classes and not interested in
anything remotely related to study-
ing.

One of the first things that comes to
mind when the words ‘‘afternoon
TV” are mentioned is soaps. The ac-
ting is usually poor, the plots are, for
the most part, ridiculous, but for
some reason they are entertaining.

I have only been watching one late-
ly because that is all I can stand.
ABC broadcasts ‘‘All My Children’
at 1 every weekday afternoon and it
has some good entertainment for
those finishing classes after “E”’
hour.

The acting is not very good and the
lines are stumbled over in most
every scene, but the characters are
interesting. The plots have their
usual share of love affairs and crime
intrigue, which keep faithful viewers
wondering whether Tad and Hillary
will get back together or what will
become of the computer disc.

Later on comes the classics of
decades ago. WTBS has such favo-
rites as ‘The Brady Bunch,” ‘“‘Leave
it to Beaver” and even an ap-
pearance by the Three Stooges dur-
ing the Bugs Bunny show at 3:05.

Another favorite in the past few
years for afternoon entertainment is

the show about couples. These have
included ‘‘The Dating Game,”’ ‘‘Love
Connections” and the only one to sur-
vive today in the area, ‘The New
Newlywed Game.”

“The New Newlywed Game’”’ is of
the same format as the older edition,
still starring Bob Eubanks

Now let’s take a iook at this week’s

‘top highlights.

Saturday night, channel 5 will show
“Halloween II” at 8 and ‘“Rose-

4

mary’s Baby” at 11 with a one-hour |
break for news between the features. |

HBO also offers a fair lineup start-
ing at 10, with the return of ‘‘The Hit-
chhiker” with Margot Kidder star-
ring in this edition. This is followed
by “The Park is Mine” about a Viet-
nam vet who tries to earn respect for
all vets by taking over Central Park.

In the network search for
nostalgia, we have seen the re-
turn of ‘‘The Twilight Zone’ and
“Alfred Hitchcock Presents.’’ Now
NBC will try again with a movie
bringing back another past favorite.
“I Dream of Jeannie; 15 Years
Later” will air at 9 Sunday night.

The show will have three of the old
faces as Barbara Eden, Bill Daily
and Hayden Rorke, as Dr. Bellows
will return. Larry Hagman’s starring
role will be taken over by another
past TV legend, Wayne Rogers. You
just never know where this might
lead, as long as it isn’t another
“Gilligan’s Island’”’ movie.

 

By David Sprunt

our best controlled pavilion concert ever.”

Several new techniques were used to aid in controlling
both crowds and the consumption of beer. Arm bands

 

Anyone who attended last Friday night’s pavilion con-
cert featuring the Romantics surely noticed one thing
—it was loud. But according to Student Activities Board
Executive Director Mike Guerriero, ‘The loudness of
the concert was due to the fact that the knobs were turn

ed too high.”’

Guerriero noted that the loudness will be avoided at
the SAB’s December 6 concert with R.E.M.

Everything else Friday night ran smoothly, and Guer-
riero said the concert was put on for even less than ex
pected. The projected cost of the concert was $20,875,
with projected receipts of $15,100, but the final cost was
only $20,723 and the total receipts were $15,211.

‘From a financial standpoint, the show was a suc-
cess,’ Guerriero said. ‘‘We’re making great attempts

this year to avoid overspending

The evening was also free from problems with crowd
control, and, Guerriero said, ‘‘From the standpoint of
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, it was probably

were used to designate those of legal drinking age, a .
Lexington police officer was hired to help the SAB man-
age the crowd, and a higher beer price probably pro-
moted a little more responsibility in the pavilion beer
drinker, Guerriero said.

‘‘We took every step to see that we held up our end of
the ABC laws,” said Guerriero. ‘The ABC told us they
would be there, but they weren’t.”’

Guerriero said the SAB is also looking into ways to get
people through the doors of the pavilion more quickly so
they don’t have to spend so much time waiting outside.

The SAB has decided against putting another show in
the pavilion between now and the R.E.M. concert due to
the hectic weekend schedules in Lexington and at the
local women’s colleges, Guerriero said.

The SAB will be sticking to the same guidelines for the

R.E.M. concert that were successful for the Romantics.

“Everything will be the same,”’ Guerriero said, “except
that the ticket prices will be $10 instead of $8 due to the
increased quality of the entertainment provided.”

~ ~ + ~ ~ ~ ~—_ ~ soe

~

i

4

Somme
