Palms
‘| Early closing

miffs students
Page 3

 

 

rt

+

, VOLUME 85, NUMBER 28

w

 

 

Poems

Poet to read
from works

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Page 5

INIVERSIT® Pr

 

 

2Nz VA.

9 1986
Your Alumni Weekend weather

Friday: Partly sunny, cooler
Weekend: Fair, highs in 70s

 
  
    

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

LE UNIV

APRY

ERSiT>

FALSE

 

—s Che Ring-tum Phi

MAY 8, 1986

 

Survey finds attitudes on coed changed

‘

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special to The Phi

,

». Two years ago, the students who now are juniors and
seniors raised a pretty big fuss about the possibility of
‘undergraduate women enrolling at Washington and Lee.
But now that coeducation is a reality here at W&L, it is
the current male freshmen and sophomores who are least
‘satisfied with the change, according to a poll taken dur-
,ing winter term by a sociology research class.

“Overall, the student body seems to think coeducation
‘is going fairly well,” said Associate Sociology Professor
;David R. Novack. The discontent among the freshman

and sophomore men, however, prove to be a future pro-
Yblem, he said.
, . The poll found that 71 percent of the students con-
sidered the Honor System to be the school’s most impor-
‘tant tradition, that 45 percent enrolled in W&L mainly
ybecause of its high academic reputation and that 45 per-
cent thought the school needed more social outlets.
Of the 890 men and 94 women surveyed; a majority
ythought coeducation was in the University’s best in-

 

y

*

terests; and three-fourths thought the administration
handled the transition well. But a majority of the
students also thought the administration had given too
much attention to women this year and had treated them
better than male students.

The 39-question survey, was administered last winter
as students registered for spring classes, was answered
by about 75 percent of the undergraduate student body.

Novack said the most surprising result of the poll aws
was that freshman and sophomore men tended to be
much more anticoed than the juniors and seniors. Of the
men polled, 45 percent of the freshmen, 40 percent of the
sophomores, 34 percent of the juniors and only 29 percent
of the seniors said they now oppose coeducation.

Novack said that one of the most fascinating results
was the students’ self-reported view of the role of women
in society, which tended to serve as a yardstick for their
views on coeducation-related questions. Students with
more traditional views on the role of women tended to be
less supportive of coeducation and less satisfied with the
administration’s handling of it.

Sophomores tended to have the most traditonal views
on the role of women in society, with 41 percent respond-

ing that their views were very traditonal or somewhat
traditional, compared to 35 percent of the freshmen, 34
percent of the juniors and 33 percent of the seniors.
Female students tended to have much more non-tradi-
tional views on the role of women in society than did
males

To a question on the treatment of women in the class
room, 37 percent of all men and 6 percent of all women
said they thought women received better treatment than
men from the faculty. But divided by class, 42 percent of
the sophomores, 33 percent of the freshmen, 28 percent of
the juniors and 31 percent of the seniors said they thought
the faculty treated feniale students better than male
students

Novack said the survey showed that those students ‘‘fa-
voring coeducation tended to see the faculty as treating
males and females the same,’’ but those who were oppos-
ed thought the women were being treated better. A ma-
jority of the respondents said they thought both sexes
were treated equally

Of the sophomores surveyed, 71 percent said they
thought the administration had done well in handling the
transition to coeducation, compared to 82 percent of the

freshmen, 74 percent of the juniors and 79 percent of the
seniors.

Almost 95 percent of the women said they thought the
administration had done well in handling the transitiun,
although 31 percent thought the administration had given
them too much attention. More than 60 percent of the men
thought the women received too much attention

When asked their opinion of sororities at W&L, 48 per-
cent of the men and 46 percent of the women were in
favor, while 33 percent of the men and 41 percent of the
women were undecided. The rest were opposed. Former
fraternity members seemed to question sororitiss more
than did current fraternity members or independent
men.

Half of the freshmen tended to view W&L’s former all
male status as a positive factor for enrollment, compared
to 48 percent of the sophomores, 40 percent of the juniors
and 31 percent of the seniors.

Although 43 percent of the men and 24 percent of the
women indicated that they had considered transferring
from W&L, 86 percent of the men and 94 percent of the

(See Poll, Page 6

 

 

Grand jury indicts two in W&L cases

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

A former Washington and Lee
freshman has been arrested on
charges of forgery and uttering in-
volving another freshman’s
check.

John M. Wright, of Dunwoody,
Ga., was arrested April 23. Wright
withdrew from school Apri} .25, ac-
cording to the registrar’s office.

A police report stated that a
check for $150 in the name of
freshman Dirk van Assendelft of
Atlanta was cashed at the Domi-
nion Bank on Main Street March
12,

On March 17, van Assendelft
signed an affidavit at the bank
saying that his check for $150 had
been forged.

A handwriting analyst examin-
ed the signature on the check at
the request of W&L security of-
ficials, according to the report
The analyst said the signature ap-
peared to be in Wright’s hand-
writing.

 

 

Freshman charged with check-forging

 

 

 

 

JOHN VM. WRIGHT

Both charges are felonies and
carry fines of up to $1,000 and jail
sentences of more than one year

Wright denied any knowledge of
the case, the report said

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

%
, Junior Roby Mize returns a shot in action from last week

‘Ranked fourth in nation,
‘tennis heads to nationals

 

By LEIF UELAND
*Staff Reporter

* ‘Sunday night, it became official.

‘The fourth-ranked Washington and
« Lee tennis team is on its way to
Claremont, Calif., to compete in the
"NCAA Division III national cham-
", pionships, the second year in a row
the Generals have reached the team

' championships.

4 While W&L just learned of its selec-

tion, the road to nationals began

"months before the official season
« started, commencing almost immed-
, iately with the arrival of students on

campus, and it increases in intensity

* as it goes along.

The Generals began play in the fall
with the enviable position of having
‘ five of six lettermen returning from
«last year’s team, which finished

eighth in the national championships.
“ W&L competed in the W&L Invita-
+ tional and the JMU Invitational

There also were squad challenge
matches. Both served as a means of
* establishing team line-up but not
, especially improving team play
According to coach Gary Franke
* fall play exists ‘‘mainly for evalua
tion, as opposed to high emphasis on
performance.”’
4 The Generals found the sixth
« starter they were looking for in
freshman Bobby Matthews. Ranked

 

4

123rd in the nation as a junior, Mat-
thews played his way up the team’s
ladder until finding his niche in the
No. 3 spot. While not always the case
— as shown last year — Matthews
along with the rest have all remained
in those spots which were established
in the fall.

When fall play was over the line-up
set, the Generals did not lie dormant
for the winter. Instead of succumbing
to the elements, the team chose to
raise the funds to acquire team and
player memberships at the Staunton
Racket Club. With such access to
courts, the players were encouraged
to log in playing time prior to the
Feb. 1 season opening. Team mem-
bers also participated in weight
training and arunning program.

As of Feb. 1, the team’s season
wasted little time kicking into high
gear. The Generals’ first three
matches, all losses, brought them up
against three Division I teams, Penn
State, James Madison and Virginia
Tech. Playing such formidable op-
ponents, though mentally taxing,
served to prepare the Generals for
ranked Division III teams that often
determine whether a team is invited
to nationals

The year’s deciding matches in-

See Tenms, Page 8

 

By JIMSTRADER
Editor

 

A Rockbridge County grand jury
Monday indicted a former Washing-
ton and Lee student on credit card
theft charges and a sophomore on an
assault and battery charge.

Former W&L senior Roger L. Dun-
navan Jr. was indicted on two felony
charges involving the theft and at-
tempted use of three credit cards.

Sophomore J.P. Baehr had assault
and battery reduced from a felony
to a misdemeanor in the charge of
shooting another student with a BB
gun.

The grand jury charged that on
April 9, Dunnavan stole three Visa
credit cards from third-year law stu-
dent David M. Murray Jr., and the
next day tried to use one of the cards
to withdraw $1,800 from a branch of
United Virginia Bank.

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton
said there is no specific indication as
to Dunnavan’s whereabouts and that
his name has been sent to the Na-
tional Crime Information Center,
which by computer alerts law en-
forcement officials nationwide of
wanted individuals.

Cappeto resigning at end of year

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto will leave Wash
ington and Lee at the end of this year
to become a dean of students at a
Southern California college.

Cappeto, who has been at W&L for
11 years, submitted his resignation to
Dean of Students Lewis G. John on
Monday. He will take a job with
Harvey Mudd College, a 550-student
school in Claremont, Calif.

“TI didn’t really choose to leave
Washington and Lee, just an oppor-
tunity for a better job came up,”’ Cap-
peto said Tuesday. ‘My career ambi-
tion was always to be a dean of
students.”’

John expressed regret over Cap-
peto’s resignation but saw the move
as a good opportunity for him
“We're very sorry, of course, from
our point of view here to lose such a
capable colleague, a good profes-
sional and a very good friend,’’ he
said,

He said the University hasn’t had
time to plan for a replacement.

Cappeto said he had been looking
‘seriously’ for a new job since the
first of the year and has had offers
from other colleges. He turned them
down because he ‘always decided
that Washington and Lee was a bet-
ter alternative to the option available
tome.”

He said he took the deanship at
Harvey Mudd because the status of
that position was appealing

“There are some schools where the

dean of students is not a very good
job — you never know that until you
get to look at the situation,’’ he ex-
plains. ‘‘There are a lot of schools out
there where the students didn’t like
the dean of students, and Mike Cap-
peto didn’t want one of those jobs.”’

Cappeto said the job he will be tak-
ing will be ‘‘almost identical’ to the
position that Dean John now holds.
“It's one of those career oppor-
tunities that you just can’t turn
down,’’ Cappeto said.

“The one difference between Dean
John and Mike Cappeto is that I don’t
own green pants,”’ he noted.

Cappeto, W&L’s director of place-
ment, said there is a lesson to be
learned from his experience in look-
ing for another job. “If I have a

See Cappeto, Page 6

“He is now a fugitive,’’ Sutton said.

Sutton added that if Dunnavan is
located, he would be arrested and
held for the Lexington police

Dunnavan, of Longwood, Fla.,
withdrew from school April 29. He
enrolled in W&L in the fall of 1981

Lexington police are working with
another jurisdiction on a ‘‘potential
charge” in the case, Sutton said, but
would not comment on what the
charge might be.

, Commonwealth’s Attorney Bever-
ly C. ‘John’ Read called the charges
“very serious’’ and added thet he
was-“‘concerned as a prosecutor
about the amount of money that was
involved.”

Read said he was ‘‘very suspicious
about what that money was to be us-
ed for,” but would not elaborate.

Baehr, of Spartanburg, S.C., was
arrested following a Feb. 27 snowball
fight between his social fraternity,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and the house
next door, Phi Kappa Psi. Baehr said
after the incident that he fired a BB
pistol at a group of Phi Psis

Phi Psi junior John D. Roe, of
Berlin, Md., was wounded in the right
eye by a BB.

Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of
University relations and develop-
ment, was foreman of the grand jury.

 

 

 

 

MICHAEL A. CAPPETO

Alumni Weekend: Not for graduates only

 

Council.

Southern Comfort that features selections from

Staff Report

 

As 10 reunion classes gather in Lexington for
Saturday’s annual meeting of the Alumni Associa
tion and a weekend of catching up and partying
down, current students are invited to mingle with
them beginning tonight at a speech by former pro
fessional football coach Walt Michaels.

What a promotional brochure called ‘‘Minks
young and old’’ from undergraduate and law
classes ending in a one or a six going back to 1936
will enjoy their quintennial bashes while the
Alumni Board of Directors meets to do business

Michaels, a 1951 Washington and Lee graduate
who played with the 1950 football team in the
Gator Bowl, is the former coach of the NFL's New
York Jets and New Jersey Generals

His speech, ‘‘A Fullback’s Flashbacks
at8 p.m. in Lee Chapel

On Saturday, the Student Activities Board is
sponsoring a concert by Heinsohn and Day on the
Colonnade lawn from 1:30 to 4:30 p.m. Each
fraternity will have an open house for alumni from
4 to 5 p.m. ina new plan arranged by the Inter

} +1 st } ' ‘

fraternity Connell anc

From 9:30 to 12:30 that night, the Alumni
Association is hosting a Dixieland Jazz concert by
Rusty Nichol’s Dixieland Band in General Head-
juarters — formerly the Cockpit, for those who’ve
been out of town this year. There is no cover
charge for the performance by Nichols, the
former trombone star for Jimmy Dorsey and
Charlie Spivak.

The Alumni Board meets all day tomorrow, and
on Saturday University President John D. Wilson
will speak on ‘Washington and Lee: The Years
Ahead’ at the Alumni Association weekend

In addition to tonight's and Saturday’s events,
here are half a dozen other chances to bump into
alumni at which no ticket (or jacket) is required:

*A plaque will be dedicated at 2 p.m. in Lee

hapel tomorrow in honor of James H. Monroe of
the class of 1966, the only W&L alumnus to receive
the Congressional Medal of Honor. Monroe was
killed in action in the Vietnam War and was
warded the medal posthumously. The ROTC Col
or Guard and Ranger Company and the Glee Club

!l participate in the ceremony

Phat will be followed from 2:30 to 3:30 p.m. bya

by the Glee Club, Chorus and

their European Concert Tour during spring break.

elf you can tear yourself away from Heinsohn
and Day, Jason Miller's ‘“That Championship Sea-
son’’ will be performed in the Troubadour Theatre
at a special 2 p.m. matinee on Saturday. Reserva-
tions may be made by calling 463-8637.

eAt noon tomorrow, the class of 1961 will present
a special gift ina ceremony at the site of the plan-
ned new admissions office at 32 University Place,
next to the Alumni House

eA trio of exhibitions is available for the
culturally inclined. The porcelain and paintings in
the Reeves Center will be on display tomorrow
from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and on Saturday from 10
a.m. to noon. ‘Letters from Famous Writers
Years of Shenandoah Correspondence’ is on con-
tinuous display in the Boatwright Room of the
University Library, and ‘‘Le Sport et l’Affiche.”’
traveling collection of posters from the
Museum of Paris, can be seen out the
Northen Auditorium

eThe Co-op (i.e., snack bar) will be open on
Saturday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. For those who are
driving, the May special is a 69-cent milkshake

35

a

Sports

ASSEN ERE N REN Ao aN it ee oe nats ne
 

 

 

 

 

 

OPINION
Ol’ boys

At Monday’s faculty meeting, several faculty members
presented a petition to abolish the University Council.
Although the faculty decided to table the issue for final ap-
proval until next fall, they did ask the Executive Committee
to consider the matter. That night’s EC meeting included a
lively 45-minute discussion, but not on the issue of whether to
dissolve the UC.

The controversy stemmed from a disagreement among
members over whether they should recommend a change in
the composition of the Student Affairs Committee as propos-
ed in the faculty motion.

Several EC members wanted to change the recommenda-
tion of three members elected to the UC by the student body
to three members appointed by the EC. It seems certain EC
members feel that they could do a better job of choosing peo-
ple representative of the student body than the student body
itself! (Who elected the EC, anyway?)

Suppose the University Council is dissolved, as appears in-
evitable. What would be the best way to get representatives
on the SAC who would embody student opinion? Certainly it
would seem that election by the student body would be best.
So why does the EC, or at least several EC members, have so
little faith in the students they represent?

The members of the EC surely must see some people who
have been elected to a position in our student government
come into office totally clueless (perhaps by personal ex-
perience) as to their jobs and responsibilities. Maybe it
would be easier to appoint someonewho knows the job inside
and out, who is a fraternity brother, (and thus readily avail-
able for consultation), who is willing to report back to the EC
(and make it easier for the EC to keep an eye on what’s going
on). The EC seems to like to delegate authority, but it also
likes to keep looking over the shoulders of those it appoints.
Perhaps the EC doesn’t trust those it appoints any more than
it trusts the student body.

The EC did pass the proposal as a whole, thus consenting to
the notion that the three new SAC member be elected. But the
reasoning was the the EC knew the faculty would never agree
to more EC-appointed positions. Of course, there was also
that familiar line about a “‘perception of fairness.’’ The EC
seemed to accept the proposal because it didn’t think it could
get away with what it wanted. Not the most reassuring news,
huh?

The EC doesn’t seem to be the only organization on campus
that favors appointment over election. Why does it always
seer that the same half-dozen ‘‘sweethearts’’ are on all the
committees and boards and involved in many activities? I
can’t believe that these are the only students on campus who
are interested in leadership positions. I know there are many
students who would like to serve and become involved. It is
frustrating to these students because many positions are fill-
ed by appointment, as seems to be the EC favorite method of
doing business.

The ‘‘good ol’ boy network”’ is not limited to the EC. In fact,
the entire University seems to run on it. The Women’s Forum
also seems to be employing the ‘‘buddy system”’ of choosing
leaders. Many women who have worked all year on one com-
mittee or another are trying to help “‘lay the groundwork” for
the forum. Yet the leaders of the committees seem to have
been hand-picked long before the committees were actually
formed.

We all know that many of these committees, titles and
leadership positions are resume fodder. Yes, there is work in-
volved but often the title conveys a grander image than the
actual job warrants.

While the buddy system isn’t the most fair to everyone, it
isn’t as dangerous as the EC appointing members to the SAC,
for these committees have the power of the recommendation
at best. The SAC, though is the body to which a student ap-
peals a decision of the Student Control Committee. Students
would certainly want to have elected representatives in such
an important and powerful group that would also serve as a
voice of student opinion (a duty of the current University
Council).

The EC, by some stroke of luck, realized there was no alter-
native. Making itself responsible for appointing members
to the SAC would be similar to Congress voting to give itself
more power. Like checks and balances, there is an equally
good reason the EC couldn’t get away with it. However, it
was not the students the EC was worried about, but the facul-
ty. Too bad the EC doesn’t realize that the student body — the
one they don’t seem to trust — is where the real power begins
and ends.

 

—By MEK

ORRECTION

Director Gerald J. Darrell. The
comments were actually given by
Snack Bar Manager Richard L.
Armstrong.

In last week’s Ring-tum Phi,
quotations in a story about the
new Co-op jukebox were incor-
rectly attributed to Food Service

  

    
   
        

 ” npt
“yyy

The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

CONTAINMENT STRUCTURE
FOR NUCLEAR ACCIDENT,
UNITED STATES:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONTAINMENT STRUCTURE
FOR NUCLEAR ACCIDENT, 7
SOVIET UNION: Me

 

Y

 

weer)

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

   

NEWS STAFF
Bommbutive BOUIN ooo iicse sacs ccs eeid bee) cemccee cates tedetdenceceeesess Mike Allen
Pr er rr rr rey Paul Foutch
Jim Strader
Managing Editor .... Reade Williams
eg er 0 oC oe eee Mike Stachura
a I av iooi5a0 6 bi keds Vitis) 650 ee I Hbisieeienes Jason Lisi
Photography E@UOF..... 2... ccceeececsceercreeseeseeseressees sereees Steve Sadler
PINE TIN 5 55. bo 50 oc LE in 5 ihc ods cca teaseicsauesves Marshall Boswell
ee ee eC CC David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
Editorial Page Bditor .... 0... 5c ccc cece cer ccessccccecscsccccceces NEMS Pattern
Apaiainnt erist Pama WONG «5 ose ich nic vin nd side bee) cieeivecvcnes Marie Kothman
TBR rn mea Tape ee Tye reer ar re eer ITT T Tee Tree rT TL Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
ee ge Jeff Kimbeli
Perera I aii in ee acids . Hank Greenberg

MOvertining GRIGINER, 0 nic cele been ecetoweecae John Feyver, Keri Hinrichs,
Jay Reville, Greg Turley

CMa PERE i isos ca aie El ee Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Pbi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. ‘he
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

ae

Pd

New species detected on Colonnade -

 

MY VIEW
By Mike McAlevey

 

There comes a time in the tax-
onomical history of every group or
species when membership reaches
critical mass, when the previously ig-
nored and loosely defined set of en-
tities finally make itself known and
open to classification by simple vir-
tue of numbers. According to infor-
mation published in the September
1985 volume of ‘‘Evolution Monthly,”
scientists working out of the Love
Canal Center for Anomolous Human
Development have made a major
breakthrough in their ongoing at-
tempts to accurately define a type of
being once restricted to living in in-
consequential populations in beach
regions of Lake Erie, New Jersey
and Southern California. Pervis
‘‘double-helix’’ Noggenheimer,
director of the Love Canal center,
stated in a recent press conference
that ‘due to sudden and rapid
reproduction and subsequent pro-
liferation of ‘being X’ throughout the
continent,’ he and his crack
research team have been able to
definitively classify the aforemen-
tioned being as occupying the species
Homo hammerheadus, a close fac-
simile in physical appearance to the
Homo sapiens, despite its somewhat
mallet-shaped cranium, and whose
behavior, quite predictably, is social-
ly defective.

Now, to be honest, I seldom read
scientific journals because they are
just too provocative. But much to my
dismay, I began thinking and in short
order I concluded with the assistance
of a failsafe wallet-sized list of tests
for hammerheadism that we, in fact,
have a swelling population of this
species on campus which is easily
distinguished from the jar heads,
buzzheads, blockheads and hokum-
heads already here. If this university
can ever be safe for the cultivation of
Renaissance men, like Scott Hender-
son, we must, in a coordinated effort,
eradicate this scourge afflicting
civilized life everywhere. In order to
make the hammerheads bite the big
one, however, the student populace
must be educated in how to identify a
“double H.”’ Here, fhen, are some of
the pointers on the Noggenheimer
handout.

Both genders of the species Homo
hammerheadus exhibit certain
behavioral characteristics. They are,
without variation, darkly tanned
because they spend every daylight
hour lying out in Speedo meat suits or
revealing Sports Illustratedesque
swim garb on the Collonnade. Occa-
sionally two or more male and some-
times female hammerheads will
prance about like fairies (with shak-
ing genitalia) chasing frisbees and
nauseating the casual passerby.
Hammerheads generally have an in-
satiable desire for attention and are,
therefore, willing to make a fashion
statement at any time. From ludi-
crous haircuts to outrageous rai-
ments, the double-H’s defy good
taste.

In the classroom hammerheads
fortunately seldom comment, and
when they do they exhibit a keen
sense for the obvious. The only thing
they. manage to take away from the
Hill is a voluminous collection of
phrases, quotations, and polysyllabic
words which when misused in the
certain way only a hammerhead
knows, can evoke sexual arousal
from any hammerheads of the op-
posite sex.

In the social context the male ‘‘dou-
ble H” is certain to do anywhere
from $50 to $200 in damage to a
fraternity house on any particular
Wednesday or weekend night. They
also maintain a ‘‘meat-on-the-seat-
or-feet-on-the-street’’ attitude
toward women which when combined
with their overt-reference to their
own erotic prowess insure thus the in-
terbreeding of the species because

only female ‘double Hs’’ fall for the °

routine.

Speaking of female hammerheads,
they think that every man, ham-
merhead or not, is looking at them
and desiring their bodies. Every ac-
tion is interpreted as seduction, and
often in their view; approaching
rape. Further, the female hammer-
head must, due to the nature of her
species, pump iron in order to
strengthen muscles necessary for
carrying the inordinately heavy
hammerhead fetus. Using excessive
weight and low reps, every set is
worked to failure.

Undoubtedly, both genders have a
natural inclination for untruths.
Although superficially confident, for

example, they often project their _
neurosis on the world. Rumors are
the ticket at a hammerhead gather-

ing, and contests are commonly held t

to determine who can fabricate the «
most outlandish story which when ut-
tered, pacifies their
minds like heroin the addict.

Y
inadequate «

Hammerheads also love sophomor- *
ic bathroom jokes. As a matter of

fact, this is the fool-proof test.
Carefully approach a group of sus-

‘

pected ‘“‘double H’s”’ and tell your «
best summer-camp cabin joke; who-
ever laughs is a hammerhead. The ~~’
not so bold hammerhead investigator ~~

might prefer to track the species. For —
as with wild turkeys, hammerheads °
leave a trail of droppings. Empty ©

‘

beer cans and fast food wrappers are
a definite sign that could lead to their ”
gathering spot. : _

While open-minded scientists like
Dr. Noggenheimer anxiously await

the chance to systematically study -

the species homo hammerheadus, |
anxiously anticipate their removal
from this planet.
seems to think that, similar to a

Noggenheimer ‘

virus, hammherheads might mutate ~
into an innocuous strain, but I don’t |
think we can wait that long. There- .

fore, I implore you to support the

Fund for the Deportation of Ham- *-

merheads (John Thunder, Treasur-
er). We have already scheduled a
beach music festival, so that we can

take the hammerheads’ money on .
ticket sales and exile them with their .

own good dollars.

we.

No bad news is surely not good news:

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

After American warplanes bombed
Libya last month, the Libyan press
published varied accounts of the at-
tack, each of which portrayed the Li-
byan defense as better than the rest
of the world was led to believe. As far
as Libyans were concered, every
American warplane was shot down,
the American traitors were captured
and the imperialist aggressors were
defeated by the people’s jamahiriya.
All was content on the inside of
Libya.

Similarly, we saw last week how
the Soviet press operates during a
political — and potentially fatal —
crisis. Despite radiation levels suffi-
cient to brown anyone’s pale skin
within a hundred miles of the Cher-
noby! plant, the Soviet masses were
treated to footage showing contented
(and slowly roasting) children play-
ing soccer near the disaster site and
plump peasants planting their spring
wheat crop near Kiev. Everything
was made to appear as near to nor-
mal as possible. There was no melt-
down, no reason to fear radiation.
The headaches and nausea citizens
as far away as Poland felt must have
been caused by bad food or poor
hygiene. Switch shampoos if your
hair is falling out. The fear of an
uprising, many believe, prompts the
Soviets to portray the ‘‘everything is
normal’’ facade regardless of the in-
ternal crisis.

Both the Soviets and the Libyans
know how to handle the press to keep
the internal discomfort to a mini-
mum. Any news contrary to the offi-
cial lines was viewed as a desperate
lie, an attempt to disrupt the control
over the sweaty masses, an attempt
to create chaos out of the proletariat

pipedream. If we keep the bad news
away from the people it affects, we
can sustain this mirage of normalcy.

That attitude of shielding the
masses from the harsh reality is as
ridiculous as it is dangerous. And I
fear it isn’t limited to the Libyan or
Soviet or East European media.

The same desire to present normal-
cy can be seen among students and
faculty and administration on this
campus.

It is limited, I suppose, in the
number of people that it affects. And
their intentions surely are not the
same as those of the Soviets or the Li-
byans.

But I believe their concern is the
same. For the past two weeks, The
Phi has had what most people might
call “‘heavy’’ news on the front page.
Two weeks ago, the top three stories
(those ‘‘above the fold’’ on the front
page) dealt with students and their
involvement in rape charges, credit-
card fraud and check forging. Last
week, the lead story reported that
police were seeking a senior for infor-
mation about fhe credit card fraud.
The stories certainly did not portray
the W&L most students like to re-
member. Nor do I believe the stories
necessarily reflect the behavior of
the majority of students at this
school.

Why, then, many students (school
“cheerleader’’ types) and admini-
strators ask, did we put those stories
in the paper, much less on the front
page? What will the alumni think?
(As a percentage of Phi subscribers,
I assure you, the alumni are indeed
the vast minority.) Why portray such
a ‘‘poor’’ side to the school? Don’t the
Phi editors like W&L?

As one Phi editor, I like W&L. And I
like it enough to admit there are pro-
blems with the school as it now ex-
ists. It is not that I am thumbing my

nose at the alumni (after all, in four
weeks, I will join their ranks). Nor do
I believe that it is the responsibility
of the paper to present an ‘‘all’s fair”
account of a school and an honor
system threatened by internal weak-
ness.

I would prefer that the disapprov-
ing Phi readers leave the ‘‘all’s well
that appears well” to the W&L’s
alumni magazine, a slick, four-color
publication that serves the Universi-
ty and alumni well. Every alumnus
receives a copy, and rarely — the ex-
ception being if annual giving has
fallen — is ‘“‘bad’’ news reported.

The inference is not that the alumni
magazine is deceiving. Rather, every
publication serves a different pur-
pose and a different readership.

The problem with the argument
that we should not report the ‘‘bad
news” is evident. Keeping ‘bad’
news off the front page does not mean
it fails to exist; just because Phi
readers wouldn’t see that a student
— considered ‘‘honorable”’ by faculty
and peers alike — has been indicted
for fraud or rape or intent to distri-
bute narcotics does not mean the
school would be any better or
stronger or the Honor System any
more dependable. Keeping unfavor-
able news from readers is, in its sim-
plest form, deceit, an art the Soviet
and Libyan presses seem to have per-
fected.

So, the next time a ‘‘bad’’ news
story appears on the front page and
your prepare to write a fiery letter
disparaging the Phi’s negative re-
porting, think about why the article
was written. Most likely, that news
appears because it involves W&L stu-

‘dents and directly affects our reputa-

tion in the community. It appears, in
part, to give incentive to the student
body to re-examine the Honor Sys-
tem and the ramifications it sup-

posedly brings with it (gentlemanly
demeanor, et al.). It appears as war-
ning to other potential offenders that
maybe ‘‘they’’ will also befall the °
same fate.

Above all other factors, the story
appears to set the record straight, as
best we at The Phi know that record.
At times, our knowledge may be li-
mited, but what we print we do so

aes

‘

with the belief that facts serve the ’

students better than rumor. ‘
Besides, ignoring the problem, or‘

trying to keep community attention

from it, won’t make the problem dis-

appear. We, as students, are often ac-

while we are at college. Such report-:
ing surely reminds us that reality
even follows us here at school.

‘Wing-ding’ stings,
embarasses trio

To the editors:

We have been advised to point
out the serious dangers massive
funnelators present. Having been }
involved with the fragmentation
of a Graham-Lees’ window as the
result of flinging water balloons,
we are very aware of the potential

mend that spring term fun not in-

volve ballistic devices such as the |’
renowned ‘‘Winger.”’

John Ryle Lawson III

Class of 89

Anthony J. Onorato

Class of '89

Craig Love

Class of '89

 

 

 

for serious injuries. We recom- |"

i
cused of living in a dream world, "
|

7)

 

——

|
NEWS

 

UC probably won’t
disband until 1987

 

By DANA BOLDEN
and DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporters

 

, The Executive Committee voted
unanimously Monday night to recom-
end to the faculty that the Universi-
ty Council be disbanded, but it’s not
likely that will occur until the end of
rext school year.

‘ The UC had voted to dissolve itself,
,but the faculty has the power to do
‘that. Commerce School Dean Ed-
ward C, Atwood said the faculty
won't be able to vote on it until its
first meeting next year, in October.

, Students and faculty have already
been chosen for next year’s commit-
tee, he said, so any vote to dissolve it
probably won’t take effect until the
énd of next year, Atwood said.

: Religion Professor Harlan R.
Beckley said at last Thursday’s UC
meeting, “If we do decide to dissolve
the UC, its powers must be delegated
te some other body, namely the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee.”

To achieve that, a proposal was of-
fered to remove the president of the
¥nterfraternity Council, the head dor-
mitory counselor, and the chairman
of the Student Control Committee
from the SAC, and replace them with

three members elected at large by
the student body.

That would leave the student body
president and Student Bar Associa-
tion president as the only members of
the SAC appointed because of their
positions.

The student EC passed that recom-
mendation, 6-5, after considering a
proposal to turn the three elected
representatives into members ap-
pointed by the EC.

Townes Pressler, chairman of the
SCC, one of the positions that would
be removed from the SAC, argued
against elected representatives last
Thursday.

“What worries me is what type of
people could be elected,”’ he said. “If
we have a general election, it may
not attract enough qualified people.”

Junior EC representative Baltzer
LeJeune, who changed his vote to ap-
prove the faculty recommendation of
elected SAC members, said he realiz-
ed that with the dissolving of the UC,
there would be 15 fewer UC members
who might want to run for a seat on
the SAC.

LeJeune, freshman representative
Matt Bryant, senior law represen-
tative Joel Johnston, President John
Lewis, senior representative Michael
Black and Secretary Pat Hayden
voted for the faculty proposal.

Last call!

«

-

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

* A pitcher or two at the Palms can
de as much a Washington and Lee
tradition as the Honor System and
the post-Fancy Dress hangover. But
tradition or not, the fun is over at
}1:30 p.m., because at 11:30 it’s
“Last call!”

"Many W&L students think that
policy is unwise.

“It’s too early,” senior Sam
Svalina said last night at the Palms.
“They’d make plenty of money if
they still served drinks after 11:30.”

4

, Wade Leslie, who owns the Palms
with his wife, Sue, said the 11:30
policy is not “concrete,’’ but can
change according to the crowd.

» “Last Saturday we stayed open un-
til 10 minutes to 12. It really depends
dn how rowdy the crowd is,” Leslie
said.

*“That last half hour, people don’t
qrder much anyway,” he said.

™, Jayne Plogger, deli supervisor at
Spanky’s, says that’s because every-
ly is ordering drinks at her place.

>

“We definitely get the Palms’
Susiness after 11:30,” she said. ‘We
asually have to kick them out after a
while. They do order a sizable
amount of alcohol.”

 

Palms’ early closing
- gets Spanky’s swarming

Plogger said Spanky’s serves
alcohol until 12:45, and it is usually
between 1:30 and 2 a.m. before the
last customer has left. :

What do the students think about it
all?

Senior Brian Oliger was well aware
of the situation.

“I think the Palms is being stupid
because they’re giving up a lot of
business to Spanky’s,”’ he said.

Neil Rankin, Chris McGowan and
Mike Cannon all admitted that they
frequently go to Spanky’s after clos-
ing time at the Palms.

Senior Ricky Lail said the Palms
could do several things instead of
closing at midnight, such as serving
only sandwiches after a certain time.
This would ease the burden of having
to keep the whole menu open to ac-
commodate the law that requires
food to be available whenever drinks
are.

“They could keep it open late on
some nights when they know they’ll
have a lot of business. There are a lot
of things they could do and it
wouldn’t cost them much money,”
Lail said.

But Leslie is sticking to his 11:30
policy.

“We're not going to stay open until

The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ex-president
of W&L dies

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Fred C. Cole, the former
Washington and Lee president
who bought the school’s first com-
puter and once proposed adding a
women’s college to the Universi-
ty, died Tuesday at the age of 97 in
Chapel Hill, N.C., after an illness.

Cole, president from 1959 to
1967, was the 18th person to hold
that post andthe 6th successor to
Robert E. Lee. While he was in of-
fice, Lee Chapel was renovated,
student financial aid was tripled
and a variety of campus buildings
were constructed.

Edgar F. Shannon of Charlottes-
ville, a W&L alumnus and trustee
emeritus who was president of the
University of Virginia during
Cole’s tenure at W&L, recalled
yesterday that “it was a time
when education in this country
was very much in the fore-
ground.”’

Shannon said Cole “kept W&L
abreast with its development of
the faculty, and the students im-
proved under his presidency”’ in
terms of admissions selectivity.

William W. Pusey III of Lex-
ington, dean of the college during
most of Cole’s term, said yester-

day that Cole proposed to the
board of trustees a plan under
which a women’s college would be
built out by the athletic fields,
“but nothing came of it.”’

Pusey said Cole purchased the
first W&L computer, which was
housed in a temporary building on
the site of the present University
Library and was used for admini-
strative data-processing work.
“That was pretty unusual back in
1960," said Pusey, who began
teaching at W&L in 1939 and
retired in 1981.

“He had a dry sense of humor,”’
Pusey added. ‘‘He appeared, pos-
sibly, to be a little bit reserved,
but he really was a warm person
once you got to know him.”’

Born in Franklin, Texas, Cole
received his bachelor’s, master’s
and doctoral degrees from Loui-
siana State University, where he
edited several publications about
Southern history.

Before joining W&L, he was a
Tulane University history pro-
fessor, dean of its college of arts
and sciences and an academic
vice president at the school.

From 1968 until his retirement
in 1977, Cole was president of the
Washington-based Council on
Library Resources, an organiza-
tion he helped found in 1956.

 

 

Students eat and drink at the Palms restaurant on Nelson Street

2 o'clock like Spanky’s,”’ Leslie said.

Senior Bobby Fitts, a Palms
waiter, said part of the reason for the
policy is the restaurant’s staffing.

“Keep in mind that these waiters
and waitresses come in at 5 o’clock,”’
Fitts said. “‘They’re here for seven or
eight hours, serving drinks and run-
ning around. If they had to stay up
any longer, we would probably have

 

a few bartenders commit suicide.”’

Rankin said the staff can be slow at
times.

“T got here once just in time to
order one drink and then I had to
chase it down. It took a long time for
it to get here. I think their staffing is
inadequate,” Rankin said.

Leslie said there usually is not
much of a problem with the Palms’

 

NEWS BRIEFS

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

clientele, “a mature

crowd.”

“Basically, we very seldom have a
problem. The reason is that we try to
let the people know that we aren’t go-
ing to let it get out of hand,” Leslie
said.

He emphasized that since the
Palms is a student-frequented bar, it
is watched closely by the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board.

calling it

 

‘Cable Nine to broadcast three students’ programs

   

Robertson
to give VMI

baccalaureate

Television evangelist and Washing-
ton and Lee graduate Pat Robertson
will present a personalized bible to
each member of the graduating class
at Virginia Military Institute’s bac-
calaureate service next Thursday at
8p.m.

Robertson, whose Virginia Beach-
based Christian Broadcasting Net-
work reaches 30 million households
nationwide, will speak to the mem-
bers of the graduating class and their
families, but due to space limitations
in Jackson Hall, it is anticipated that
there will be limited seating for the
general public.

A native of Lexington, Robertson is
a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of W&L,
the Yale University Law School and
the New York Theological Seminary.
A Marine Corps veteran who served
in Korea and a former Golden Gloves
boxer, his late father was U.S. Sen.
A. Willis Robertson.

Re-establishing a tradition of the
early years of VMI, bibles have been
presented to graduates on a volun-
tary basis since 1980. Beginning in
1981, they have been purchased
through an endowment established
by CBN. Cadets who are members of
other faiths receive the book ap-
propriate to their religion.

As host of CBN’s ‘700 Club,”
Robertson has gained national ac-
claim for his ‘Operation Blessing,”
which claims to be one of the nation’s
largest private organizations serving
the poor. He has predicted that by
1988 there will be 80,000 churches na-
tionwide assisting in the program. He
is mentioned frequently as a poten-
tial candidate for the 1988 Republican
president nomination.

 

Staff Reports

 

Washington and Lee’s Cable Nine TV station will
broadcast six programs next week on a variety of
topics, including painting demonstrations, panel discus-
sions on coeducation, a feature on rugby at W&L and
the hospice program in Lexington.

The 30-minute programs are being produced and di-
rected by journalism students. _

The first two programs, ‘‘Introduction to Chinese
Brush Painting: The Orchid,” and “Introduction to
Chinese Brush Painting: The Peony,” will be shown at
7:30 and 8 p.m. on Monday and will feature painting
demonstrations by Art Professor I-Hsiung Ju. The pro-
ducer/director of this series is Earl Glazier.

“‘Coeducation: The Beginning of an Era, or the Begin-
ning of an Error,” and ‘‘Coeducation: Some Faculty
Views,” produced and directed by Dave Johnston, will
be shown at 7:30 and 8 p.m. on Tuesday.

“Rugby at Washington and Lee,” produced and di-
rected by Nick Berents, and “The Hospice in Lex-
ington,” produced by Will Browne and Sam Foley, will
air at 7:30 and 8 p.m. on Wednesday.

Women report stolen items

Three visiting students from area women’s colleges
reported more than $350 of possessions stolen to Lex-
ington Police last week.

Two Randolph-Macon Woman’s College students re-
ported their purses stolen from their car while it was
parked on Randolph Street between 12:30 and 2 a.m.
last Thursday. The women, Katherine and Linda Hock,
valued their purses, wallets and credit cards at $225.

Hollins College student Catherine Compton reported
that $130 worth of cash and merchandise was removed
from her car on Randolph Street last Friday.

In other police news:

eA custom-made car cover valued at $120 was taken
from a 1984 Datsun 300ZX belonging to freshman Wil-
liam Bottoms. The cover was taken between April 28
and May 5in the freshman parking lot.

eA wallet belonging to freshman Daniel Bunch was
taken from his unlocked locker while he was in a
physical education class last Thursday. Bunch said he
later found the wallet outside the gymnasium, but $4
and his United Virginia Bank card had been removed

Astronomer to deliver lectures

Laurence W. I redrick, professor of astronomy at the
University of Virginia, will deliver two lectures on
Tuesday.

The first, ‘‘Space Telescope: The Observancy of the
Future,” will be at 3:30 p.m. in Room 201 of Parmly
Hall. Fredrick will discuss his involvement with the
Space Telescope project since 1963

Fredrick’s second speech, ‘‘Ancient Monuments and
the Game of Checkers,”’ will be at 8 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Library’s Northen Auditorium. He will discuss the
validity of the argument that ancient monuments, spec-
ifically Stonehenge, were used as a predictor for lunar
and solar eclipses.

Fredrick received his bachelor’s and master’s
degrees from Swarthmore College and his Ph.D. in
astronomy from the University of Pennsylvania. From
1963 to 1980, he was chairman of the department of
astronomy at the University of Virginia, where he is
currently the Hamilton Professor of Astronomy.

Senior to study in Germany

Rob Treat, a senior from Manchester, Vt., has receiv-
ed a Fulbright grant to study for a year in West Ger-
many.

Treat will use the grant to take courses in biology and
physics at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University in
Frankfurt, and to conduct cancer research at the Paul
Erlich Institute, also in Frankfurt. The grant also
covers a two-month language course.

A biology and physics major. Treat is a member of
Alpha Epsilon Delta professional fraternity for
premedical students. He was elected to Phi Eta Sigma,
the freshman honor society, and to Phi Beta Kappa. He
is the recipient of the James McDowell scholarship, a

member of the International Club, the Intervarsity
Christian Fellowship and the track team.

Sophomore to study in Oxford

Chris Wiman, 8
sophomore from Abilene,
Texas, is the recipient of a J
$500 scholarship award
from the Lexington branch
of the English-Speaking
Union,

The scholarship, which
was established in 1985, is
given annually to a
Washington and Lee stu- Fg
dent or Virginia Military
Institute cadet for study in
England. The award was
presented to Wiman by
Capt. Robert C. Peniston,
president of the Lexington
branch of the English-
Speaking Union.

Wiman, an English major, will be studying at Oxford
this summer under the auspices of the Virginia Pro-
gram at Oxford.

Wiman is an All-America tennis team member and a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

 

 

 

CHRIS WIMAN

 

 
 

 

t
l
I
t
k
f

{
i

1

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

 

 

 

 

!

|

;

 

,

 

a

Steeple chase

Workers on the end of a crane paint the steeple of the R.E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church on Washington Street this week. Marion Delong, chair-
man of the church’s Property Committee, said the steeple has to be painted
every four or five years to keep it from rusting.

|U chooses
freshman for

head position

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

 

John Maxwell, a freshman from

. Waynesboro, Pa., has been chosen to

head the Independent Union next
year.

Maxwell said he was chosen by this
year’s officers, who also will pick the
other officers at a later time.

Maxwell characterized this year’s
IU as a success but said some areas
for improvement include more
female participation and more social
events.

With regard to the women, Max-
well said their participation was ‘‘not
very much, but it was proportional to
the men.’’ He said a woman may be
appointed to an office to increase

 

JOHN MAXWELL

events, saying ‘‘if a guy wants social,
he can go toa fraternity.”

Maxwell said the most important
services of the IU are its academic
offerings, such as its cold-test file
and tutoring services, and intra-
mural sports which he said “always
hover near the top.”’

Maxwell said that since indepen-
dents are an increasingly big block
on campus, they should be able to put
ample representatives in student
government.

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Members of
Glee Club
sell record

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

The University Glee Club and Southern Comfort have
released a new album featuring performances in Eng-

land, California and Lee Chapel.

Glee Club members Christopher Carter, George Mc-
Dowell, Bruin Richardson and James Williams, compiled
the recordings and negotiated the production of the

album on their own initiative.

According to Glee Club Conductor Gordon P. Spice,
performances are recorded ‘“‘whenever and wherever

possible.”’

The recordings on the album were made by members
of the Glee Club and by Spice himself, who added that he
still is waiting for a recording of the group’s recent Euro-
pean tour, during which a number of the new albums

were sold.

The album is called ‘‘ ‘A-Rovin’ with the Washington
and Lee University Glee Club,” and takes its name from

 

 

The Glee Club record

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

a song featured on the album. The record contains 13
pieces by the Glee Club as well as four performances by
Southern Comfort, recorded from 1983 to the present.

Work on the new album began in the fall of 1985 and it
was released just before spring break. Both albums and
cassettes are available for $7 in the Bookstore, Lee
Chapel Museum and from Spice.

Seniors fund scholarship to honor
attributes of student killed in fire

 

Staff Report

 

Seniors and their parents are being
asked this month to participate in the
Class of 1986 Tom Fellin Scholarship,
a fund planned by class officers.

Townes Pressler of Houston, the
class’s president for all four years,
said the scholarship apparently will
be the first gift in recent years by a
graduating class to the University.
Most gifts, he explained, have been
‘‘a lot farther down the road.”

To endow a scholarship, the class
must raise $25,000, a goal Pressler
hopes to accomplish in five years,
meaning the first scholarship would
be awarded for the 1991-92 school
year.

Thomas J. Fellin, an honor student
from Weston, Penn., who was presi-
dent of the Phi Gamma Delta social

Senior paints
D-Hall mural

 

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

The new mural of Washington and
Lee buildings behind the serving line
at Evans Dining Hall evolved without
any specific plan, its creator says.

Senior Wes Boatrwight of Newport
News said the work, which is un-
finished, came about by drawing
sketches for the mural of buildings
around campus that stood out and
were recognizable.

The dining hall has not had a new
mural since 1975, when alumnus Tab
Brown painted the nutritional scene.
Food Services Director Gerald J.
Darrell stressed the importance of
the dining hall’s appearance, noting
that when he came to W&L in 1969,
the area behind the food lines was

fraternity, died in a fire that gutted
the fraternity’s house in April of 1984.

Each senior will be approached by
one of about 15 class representatives
who have already pledged to the
fund. A minimum contribution of $50
is suggested for the first year. A stu-
dent who chooses the “‘working plan”
will contribute $600 over six years,
while the “graduate school plan”
recommends $325 in giving over the
same period.

Any money collected by the class
before the end of June goes directly
to the gift fund. Later contributions
will be divided between the scholar-
ship and the University’s Annual
Fund, which funds about 10 percent
of the school’s operating budget.

Parents, who received a mailing
about the project this week, already
have begun contributing to the

scholarship, and Pressler’s goal is to
raise $10,000 by graduation on June 5.
He said the emphasis, though, is in-
volving the whole class as much as on
monetary targets.

“Even if people are only going to
give $25, I hope to have 90 percent”
participation, Pressler said. ‘I don’t
know if that’s realistic. I’d like to
have 100 percent.”’

Athletic teams, fraternities and
other groups also are being invited to
contribute to the fund.

It was appropriate to name a
scholarship for Fellin because Fellin_

was “‘kind of the W&L man” and ‘‘the
kind of person we want to come
here,”’ Pressler explained.

“‘He was somebody that’s going to
be remembered for the attributes he
possessed while he was here: a
leader, a scholar and an athlete.”

Islamic
course to .

be taught «

 

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

.

 

¢

The revolutionary Islam of Iran’s «
Ayatollah Khomeini and Libya’s
Moammar Khadafy that currently is *
rocking the Middle East will be stu ,
died in a new religion course taught
by Richard G. Marks, a religious ¥
scholar hired two years ago by the,
Washington and Lee Religion De-
partment. \

The course, Religion 225, will focus ,
on modern Islam and then study the

traditional teachings of the Koran, * J

Islam’s holy book.

Jewish philosophy, literature and
mysticism are examined in three ‘
courses developed in the fall of 1984.
Marks said the purpose of those ;
courses is to show what is common
and unique in the Jewish response to
the basic problems and questions of
life. .

Traditional Jewish life and relig-
ious practices are studied in Religion |
204. The philosophy of the existen-
sialist Martin Buber is discussed in
course 205. Marks said that Judaism ‘
has been influenced by every culture +
and all intellectual currents it has ,
come across, from the time of Aristo-
tle to the German philosopher Im- \
manuel Kant.

The historical and religious crises '
of modern Jewish life, from the Holo-
caust of World War II to the estab-,
lishment of the Israeli state, and the
fragmentation of Jewish culture in‘
America are examined in a spring ,
seminar course, Marks said.

Minor A. Rogers, religion pro-'
fessor at W&L, said the courses ced}

\

long overdue here. ‘Christians need
to understand what has been con- |
tributed by the Jewish tradition.”
Rogers also said that W&L tradi-,
tionally had a significant Jewish
presence, and that Jewish alumni *
were very concerned with the declin-:

ing number of Jews at the school.

 

 

 

 

 

The mural of campus buildings appears behind the serving line in the dining hall

Darrell when he was visiting the

7,
Hedtettes. gaa

By Sean Connolly /The Caiyx \

 

 

and decided it would be a perfect

plan in exchange for his work, which + | :
theme for the new mural in Evans.

‘*. participation. he says should be finished within a ‘

“They haven’t recognized the completely bare. University of Maryland. He saw a

 

  

          
        
   
     

    

   

Maxwell stressed non-social power they have,” he said. The idea for the new muralcameto similar mural with campus scenes Boatwright is receiving a free meal few weeks. +
4)
“i —— Nike
’ e . Lubkul 103-463-1670 S 7 pD
ts eorge’s Hairstylis A CAR? | WkituL 3 apie ra
: Pan ted a New Hours
: since 1963 103-377-6331 HISTORIC
¢:: ce COUNTRY Wednesday-Saturday: 5:00-10:00
: Students under 21 -71-00.9-
V marys INNS Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00
t Redken —_— Nexus prior Insurance NEW EXPANDED MENU
C Walk in or phone for appointment Approval Biton ond Shesls ie
3 Fredricksea Ala Carte Pricing
Mon.-Fri. 463-3975 Reservations Suggested—
ae RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450 :

 

 

 

 

 

Welcome Alumni
WE’VE MISSED YOU

Take a minute and pay us a visit.

Great Goodyear

TAWAY SALE!
TIES.

 

Get your car ready for some great
driving days ahead with new tires you
wont have to worry about. Some of
our most popular tires are on sale now!

Sale Ends Saturday, Mugu

 

TALe Price
Wipes Wo trade
needed

 

iad
P165 75R13
P175 B0R13

e Tassel Foot Joys | nv a
¢ Duck Heads e Gitman Shirts e ‘ ma
¢ Unbelievable e Crest Ties—W&L ) zim eam |

Short Selection | A’ ‘ane oc (i

lege “lown Shop

SRIS| $86.65
111 W. Nelson

e Ruff Hewn

$55.75
$59.95
$60.90
$66.45
$66.10
$69.20
$73.25
$77.35
$71.68
$76.15

 

 

 

 

H&J Tire Co., Inc.

Siete
vasa:

S. Randolph St
Lexington

463-2178

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986, Page

 

Writer, poet provide insights into Southern life, racism

By MARGUERITE AYERS
Staff Reporter

Praised by The New York Times
for his ‘‘sense of place” within his
focus on the Southern black novelist
and short story writer Ernest J.
Gaines presented a reading from his
latest work, “A Gathering of Old
Men,” Tuesday afternoon in Northen
Auditorium.

Gaines was born in Lafayette, La.,
and raised on a farming parish that
had been in his family for six genera-
tions. His contact with the black
farming communities in the area
enabled him to capture the subtle
distinctions of southern culture and
black life in rural Louisiana against a
backdrop of racism.

“A Gathering of Old Men’ takes
place in a black farming parish in the
late 1970s after the younger black
men have gone into the army during
the Vietnam War and the younger
black women have migrated to the
cities to work.

The older generations have been

left to work the land, planting cotton,
sugarcane and tobacco.

Gaines presents the work from
each character’s point of view,
dividing his chapters between the dif-
ferent personalities he creates. He
says this style was influenced by the
works of William Faulkner and
believes it draws the reader deeper
into the story.

His work is vivid and colorful,
reflecting the Cajun/Creole language

of his characters and the intricacies
of their mannerisms and lifestyles.

Gaines relays the strong religious
ties of the southern black, the singing
and praying in church and the con-
stant appeals to God in times of
crisis.

Gaines has written five novels, in-
cluding ‘‘The Autobiography of Miss
Jane Pittman,’’ which was recreated
on film for public television.

His visit to Washington and Lee
was sponsored by the Glasgow En-
dowment Program, established in
1960 by Arthur Graham Glasgow ‘“‘to
promote the art of expression by pen
and tongue.”’

Gaines was available to sign copies

of his work yesterday morning in the
bookstore.

 

 

 

 

GWENDOLYN BROOKS

 

 

Brooks to read ‘people poems’

Gwendolyn Brooks, Pulitzer Prize-
winning poet and currently poetry
consultant to the Library of Con-
gress, will present a poetry reading
next Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in Nor-
then Auditorium

Brooks, who received the Pulitzer
Prize for Poetry in 1950, was the first
black writer to be so honored. She
also succeeds Car] Sandburg as Poet
Laureate of Illinois.

A native of Chicago, Brooks began
writing poetry as a young girl. Her
poems have portrayed the lives of
impoverished blacks, and the univer-

sal implications of their experiences
Brooks describes her works as “peo-
ple poems.” She ‘depicts their lives
and feelings. They are all part of put-
ting on paper a picture of life.”

At 68, Brooks spends much of her
time from September to May visiting
campuses all over the country.

Brooks is the author of 15 books, in-
cluding ‘“‘Annie Allen’’ (1949), a se-
quence of poems tracing the maturi-
ty of a Bronzeville girl, which won
her the Pulitzer Prize in 1950. Other
titles include ‘‘In the Mecca’ (1968)
and ‘‘To Disembark”’ (1981).

 

alter ee
>

ac

 

Whistleblower
to speak here

next week

A. Ernest Fitzgerald, who made
headlines during the 1970s as the
most famous contemporary ‘“whis-
tleblower,” will deliver a lecture
Monday.

PP aL,

Only Hairstylist to
accept the Colonnade

gy*MariesSherry _Card

SUR Shs.

Old Main St. Ma
Lexington, VA 244§

Pe UL
er E AT)

uaa

   

Tt.

WILLSON-
WALKER
HOUSE =_}=

Restaurant

Mother’ s Day
Champagne Brunch

Complimentary Carnations
for Mothers

Open Tuesday through Saturday
Lunch 11:30-2:30, Dinner 5:30-9:00
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday
30 N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

   
   
    
 
 
    
  
     

  

While in Lexington, Fitzgerald will
also receive Sigma Delta Chi’s First
Amendment Award. The award, pre-
sented annually by the Washington
and Lee chapter of the Society of Pro-
fessional Journalists, is given to an
individual who embodies the prin-
ciples of the First Amendment.

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

Fitzgerald’s lecture, ‘Pentagon
Procurement Pollution,’’ will be at 8
p.m. in Room 221 in the Commerce
School building. The lecture is free
and open to the public.

 

 

Fitzgerald was fired by the Air
Force in 1969 after citing cost over-
runs of about $2 billion on the C-5A jet
transport plane being constructed by
Lockheed. He was reinstated after a
15-year battle in the courts and cur-
rently works as management sys-
tems deputy in the office of the secre-
tary of the Air Force.

By W. Patrick Hinley /W&L

Across America

Three Japanese cyclists, all students at Rikkyo Universi-
ty in Tekyo, talk with a friend on the front lawn recently
en route from Los Angeles to Richmond. The cyclists
— from left to right, Eiichi Shimoda, Tatsuo Kanoh and
Yoshiharu Kamoshita — speak with Yukie Kurihara,

an exchange student at Washington and Lee. The three
students arrived in Los Angeles Feb. 17, and began their
trip a few days later, averaging 50 miles a day. They
traveled to Richmond to visit the grave of Bishop Chann-
ing Moore Williams, the founder of Rikkyo University.

GRADUATES

COURTESY

Ford ¢ Mercury
HAS YOUR

PRE-APPROVED
CREDIT FROM
FORD CREDIT

PLUS $400 TOWARD

Last year, Fitzgerald donated his
papers to the W&L library.

 

 

 

Alumni Reunion
Weekend Special Event

The W&L Alumni
Association

proudly presents
The

     

itn

i eo ees
‘

eo
Wate

ue
eee ee eee

% te ee
oeeee

EE EAE EOL ee ee

vs 's's eee ee eee bes a yea aD DD DD RTE ERRANS

ee

 

THE PURCHASE AS OF A NEW FORD

It’s Easy To Qualify

@ You must receive at least a
bachelor’s degree or a state RN
license between October 1,
1985 and September 30, 1986.

@ You must have verifia le
employment that begins within
120 days of your qualifying
vehicle purchase at a salary
sufficient to cover ordinary liv-
ing expenses and your vehicle
payment.

@ Your credit record, if you
have one, must indicate pay-
ment made as agreed.

 

Ford Motor
Orr -tel)

Company

 

Ford

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista

These Vehicles Are |
Included In The Plan
Ford: Escort, Escort EXP,
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird
Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco Il,
Ranger, F-150 & F-250

Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri,
Cougar

The amount of your pre-
approved credit is determined

 

by the qualifying vehicle you buy,
and you are eligible forthe $400 ~
directly from Ford even if you
don’t finance your purchase.
Make your best deal and you can
use the $400 toward your down
payment or get a check from

Ford after the purchase or lease.

Hurry. If a vehicle is not in
dealer stock it must be ordered
by June 1, 1986, and delivery of
all vehicles must be taken by
August 31, 1986. See your par-
ticipating dealer for complete
program details.

OURTESY

Mercury

261-2112
DL 1916

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at
G.H.Q.

Rusty Nichols
Dixieland Band

Saturday, May 10, 1986
9:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

NO COVER CHARGE

Students, faculty, staff and guests
are all welcome.
<a qsnue

ee ee

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

 

Co-op may
allow use of
point cards

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

Students may be able to use their
dining hall point cards at the Co-op
next year, Food Services Director
Gerald J. Darrell says.

Several students had asked Darrell
about the possibility of adding the
convenience of the dining hall and
General Headquarters charge sys-
tem to the Co-op.

Darrell said it would be ‘‘good for
business.”’ The GHQ, which began
accepting points this school year, has
received $30,000 worth of points, he
said.

Darrell said he would have begun
the system immediately; but ‘the
bookkeeping would be too compli-
cated.’’ As soon as a feasible ac-
counting method is formulated, the
process will begin, he said.

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Student writes a check at the Co-op

Sophomore Andy Forbes, who has
used a point card this year, called the

proposal ‘‘a great idea’ and ‘‘very
convenient.”

 

Poll

 

Continued from Page |
women said they were satisfied with
their experience here.

“The students at Washington and
Tee c9aem ta he hv and large a

reasonably happy lot.’’ Novack said.

Three senior public policy majors
now are performing a more detailed
analysis and interpretive study of the
survey results. On Tuesday, they will
make an oral presentation, including
some recommendations, to the Coed-
ucation Committee.

The survey tended to show, Novack

said, that freshman men sometimes
have felt left out and that derogatory
comments about the academic
qualifications of the sophomore class
have taken their toll.

Novack said the major recommen-
dation the three seniors likely will
make is that it is crucial to treat
undergraduates first and foremost as
students, not as men or women.

90 percent say they’re committed to honor

 

 

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

Based on the aftermath of Spain’s
civil war, this film carefully
blends action and dialogue on an
all-too-timely topic. The film is be-
ing shown as part of the Politics
Filmfest.

GENERAL NOTES

 

James Cone, president of Coffee
and Tea Ltd., Inc., a speciality
chain importer and roaster of cof-
fees and teas in Minnesota, will
speak in Room 121 of the Com-
merce School tonight at 7:30.
Cone, a member of the Washing-
ton and Lee Class of 1961, will
speak on the role of the small
businessman in the speciality re-
tailing industry. The speech is
sponsored by the W&L chapter of
the Association of Collegiate En-
trepreneurs.

ne ee

“Ballad of a Soldier’’ (USSR,
1960, English subtitles) and ‘The
Russians are Here " (U.S.. PBS,
1985) will be screened at 7:30 Fri-
day night in Northen Auditorium.
“Ballad” recounts a war-torn love
affair that discloses the Russian
view of romance in post-revolu-
tionary times. Ingeniously acted,
this was the USSR’s first major
exported film in the western
model. The film is part of the Rus-
sian Film Series.

All persons who have bounced
checks outstanding or who owe
money to the Cold Check Commit-
tee must have the amount paid by
no later than May 16. Holds will be
placed on the transcripts of those
who do not clear up their debt.

The last production of the Mary
Baldwin Theatre for the 1985-86
season is “Princess Ida,” an
operetta by Gilbert and Sullivan.
It will be performed by members
of the Mary Baldwin College Choir
and Washington and Lee Glee
Club on May 17 and 18 in the
Troubador Theatre, with perfor-
mances running May 21 through
25 at the Fletcher Collins Theatre
on the Mary Baldwin campus. Ad-
mission is free to W&L students,
but reservations should be made
beginning Monday at 463-8637.

Next Thursday at 7 p.m. in Nor-
then Auditorium a film will be
shown called ‘‘Not A Love Story?”’
This powerful and unusual movie,

Sign-ups for interviews for Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee will
continue until Friday in the Ad-
missions Office in Washington
Hall. Interviews will be held Sun-
day, Monday and Tuesday nights.
Any student may apply.

The David Strouse Blount
Educational Foundation has
scholarships available for Virgin-
ia residents based on need and
academic achievement. Applica-
tions and information are avail-
able in the Financial Aid Office in
Washington Hall. The deadline for
scholat ships for next year is May

“Behold a Pale Horse’’ (1965,
U.S., Fred Zinnemann) will be
screened tonight at 7 in Room 327
of the Commerce School. This
“thinking man’s’ guerilla war
film features Omar Sharif, Greg-
ory Peck and Anthony Quinn in a
morality play about civil obliga-
tion, the right to violence and the
nature of revolutionary authority.

which does contain some sexually
explicit scenes, claims it ‘‘neither
advocates nor appeals for censor-
ship” but raises questions about
pornography as a complex social
problem. After the movie there
will be a discussion led by Dr
Anne Schroer, Dr. Nancy Mar-
gand, Dr. Jim Worth and a pro-
fessor from the Law School. Stu
dénts are encouraged to attend
this program.

Rising juniors or seniors who
plan to pursue a career in the in-
surance field are eligible for 10 of
the $1,000 scholarships offered by
thé Independent Insurance Agents
of America, Inc. The scholarships
are awarded based on academic
achievement. Information and ap-
plications are available in the
Financial Aid Office in Washing-
ton Hall. The deadline is July 15.

The Washington and Lee aqua-
tics program is offering swim-

 

 

ming lessons to area residents |

three years of age and older dur-
ing the weeks of May 5 to § and 12
to 16. Two classes will be offered
each day, from 4 p.m. to 4:25 and
4:35 to5.

Registration and water evalua-
tion will be Saturday at 10 a.m. at
W&L’s Cy Twombly Pool in the
Warner Center.

The cost is $15 per program, and
the program include Beginners
(three levels), Advanced (three
levels), Mommy and Mee (ages 3
to 5 with mother), Aquatic games-
Gold Card Program (swimmer
level and above), and Life Saving
(depending on interest).

For further detzils, contact
Page Remillard at 463-8693.

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special to The Phi

 

Academic reputation was the reason most often cited
by students when asked why they chose to attend Wash-
ington and Lee, according toa recent survey.

But student opinion of the school’s most important
tradition appears to be shifting from academics to the
Honor System, and more than 90 percent of the respon-
dents say they are committed to that tradition of honor.

The survey was administered during the winter by a

: nine-member sociology class headed by W&L Associate
‘ Sociology Professor David R. Novack. Although the
- survey focused on coeducation, students also were
« questioned about their views on the Honor System, tra-
- dition and other questions indirectly related to coedu-
* cation.

Academic reputation was cited by 42 percent of those

t surveyed as their major reason for enrollment, follow-

,-ed by 19 percent who cited school size. Less than 5 per-
<4cent said the Honor System was the major factor in
“their decision to attend, and only 2 percent cited single-
BeX.
*° Of the freshmen surveyed, 81 percent said they

thought the Honor System was W&L’s most important
=dtradition, compared to 61 percent of the seniors. About
4 17 percent of the seniors considered academic reputa-
tien to be the echanl’s most important tradition com-

.

pared to 7 percent of the freshmen. The results were
even more skewed for men and women, as 87 percent of
the women and 69 percent of the men thought the Honor
System was the school’s most important tradition.

Only 2 percent of all students considered gentlemanly
conduct to be W&L’s most important tradition.

Almost 95 percent of all students said they either were
very committed or somewhat committed to W&L’s tra-
ditions and ideals.

Such a response showed the students’ ‘‘proclaimed
allegiance to an institutional ideal,’’ Novack said, but
the problems at the school show the reality of the situa-
tion.

“‘T think they say it in good faith,’’ Novack said, but

added he’s not sure you would want to equate that with
behavior.”

By percentage, freshmen were the most committed to
the Honor System, juniors and seniors the least. A
higher percentage of women than men tended to be
committed, and fraternity members more than in-
dependents.

Novack said that in the past, students more strongly
committed to the school’s traditions tended to be oppos-
ed to coeducation, but he did not have data to support
that for the recent survey.

The women’s committment should allay the fears of
those who thought coeducation would destroy W&L’s
traditions, he said.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Southern
Inn

 

cd otal alll anecdotal

| Cappeto

 

Continued from Page |

ee

‘message to the undergraduate stu-
} dents...it is that if you are changing
tjobs, be careful,”’ he said. “Typically
t people change to give up their crum-
‘my job for somebody else’s crum-
t-my job. If you have a good job, you
‘need to be very cautious.”’

' “Take your time, know the situa-
' tion well before you go,”’ he advised.
t “That’s what I did.”’

t. “I have here at Washington and
Lee one ofthe best jobs in the country
:...and I wouldn’t be leaving it if I
‘wasn’t going to a job which was even
tbetter,’’ he said.

- At W&L, Cappeto is chairman of

*,
’
‘
'
¥
'
‘

the Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee and the University’s pre-
law adviser. As he puts it, he also
gives general guidance to student
clubs and organizations.”’

Working with the students of the
University has been one of his most
pleasant experiences in his 11 years,
he said, “I’ve just enjoyed the rela-
tionship I’ve had with students,”’ he
states.

He thinks that people who dwell on
the bad aspects of their job are dissa-
tisfied with their job, so I tend not
ae

Cappeto said he believes one of his
most important achievements was
starting the Career Development and
Placement program at W&L. ‘Many
seniors will attest that it’s working
for many of them,” he said. ‘“‘Any-
thing that you see now, in a large

part, I feel responsible for.”’

Cappeto and his wife, Beverly,
have two daughters — Christine, 13,
and Jennifer, 9.

He said that he will begin looking
for a house in Claremont in the com-
ing week.

Cappeto characterized his pay in-
crease as ‘‘significant’’ but he said
that was due to the higher cost of liv-
ing in Southern California. “I don’t
know if it’s even fair to compare”’ the
difference in salaries, he said
“Tt’s not the reason I moved.”

Harvey Mudd College is part of the
Claremont College system. Each
school’s enrollment is kept under
1,000 and all the campuses are in a
central location. Harvey Mudd
specializes in mathematics and
engineering.

 

W&L Snack Bar

Welcome Back Alumni

We will be open
Saturday, May 10
8a.m. — 2 p.m.

 

 

69¢ Milkshake Special

For Month of May

(8 p.m. -11 p.m., Sun, - Thurs.)

 

 

Introducing New Items
Sundaes & Banana Splits

7:30-4, Mon. - Fri.

at guaranteed best
prices around

 

8-11, Sun. - Thurs.

 

 

 

  

Welcome
’ ’ ’ Students
Don’t Forget Mother’s Day: RE
We Carry: Russell Stover Candy and dinner for over
Perfumes 50 years
Other Gift Items Main Street, Lexington
17S. Main St. (703) 463-2323 463-3612
wis wn Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Lexington j Gourmet Items of All Nations _
— Cocktails® Wine@Beer
Hour: dam to am Subs @Imported Cheeses

Sunday 10am to lam Catering

Alvin-Benniz

Welcome Alumni
(Come Visit Our Expanded Store)

   
 

 

_ Alumni Special

 

Suits & Dress Pants 20% Off

 

 

Sport Coats and Suits

by Haspel, Gant & Oritsky

Sero Shirts

Bass Weejuns & Topsider Shoes
Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek
Duck Head Cotton Pants
Bermuda Shorts plaids & solids
Jams, OP & Birdwell Swimsuits
W&L - Belts - Ties - Key Chains

(Since 1963)
MasterCard
9-5:30 Monday-Saturday

VISA Choice

Student Charge

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986, Page 7

 

Wendell’s

Barber LZ,

Shop —_ BORDEN
COMMONS

   

  
       
     
     
   

Thanks To You...
... We ve Had Great Success!

To show our appreciation we're having a |
sale: |

10% Off

on everything in the store all day
Friday and Saturday

Now over 200 titles on compact disc.

| need

your head

for my business

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

117 W. Nelson St.

 

The Ideal Investment

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

For
All Merchandise Alumni, Parents of Students and Real Estate Investors

25% Off

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

Baker Real Estate announces a new offering in Phase II of Borden Com-
mons near Washington and Lee Campus, offers affordable, cost-efficient
housing for students and young professionals, and like Phase I will rapidly

 

be fully subscribed.
23 NORTH MAIN STREET :
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA Scheduled for occupancy Fall Semester 1986, pre-construction reservations
463-5988 are being taken now. 90% financing available to qualified purchases. On-

 

site management is available through Baker Real Estate.

One bedroom with fully equipped kitchens, central air and plenty of
The Beauty storage at $44,000.

Bar

156 S. Main St.
463-2886

Specializing in MARKETED BY

style cuts Tom Baker Baker Real Estate Dick Emrey

bstet Lexington, Virginia sun
ies 703-463-7319

   

Florist to the Homestead &

103 N. Jefferson ee
Lexington, Va. 24450

(703) 463-9841

 

 

Six fine hairstylists
to serve you.

 
  

 

 

 

 

Student Activities Board

presents

Concert on the Colonnade

Heinsohn

&
Day

Saturday
May 10
1:30 - 4:30

Students & Alumni Invited

 

No Beverages will be provided.
No Bottles Please

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

. By CHARLES T. GAY

 

ience with tennis. “I felt blessed to
have the caliber of men I did —

 

 

 

cluded a crucial weekend where
Washington and Lee competed
against then sixth-ranked Claremont

yg ey

sone AO aye

* mae agate “rtm

ie Fs
i iii iia alta ae

 

 

*
DAVID McLEOD ROBY MIZE BOBBY MATTHEWS CHRIS WIMAN JACK MESSERLY SCOTT ADAMS ’
layers: G Is h d shot’ at taki team title .
Players: Generals have ‘good shot’ at taking tea
: By DAVID NAVE the NCAA tournament. Matthews admitted that the pro- _ ourselves all season.” thews said, dispelling any worre> ihat the distractions of i
Staff Reporter spect of playing at nationals for the first time has him The Generals give themselves a solid opportunity of — southern California could hinder the Generals’ effort. : r
ee Ga PTO E eT NL TIES _— His ee ae that Mat- returning from this trip to The Golden State with the na- Last year’s _ was beet 7 ae >

» Next year is The Promis . ve five return- ws’ experience playing in United States Association tional championship. tional championships on its home court. '
ing oe and ae eee —— om 2 national junior tournaments will help him greatly next “We've got a good shot,” asserted All-American _ that it would be nice to have the home-court advantage ;
singies player Roby Mize after last year’s Washington _year. Wiman. again this year.
ad ote —— team a eighth at the NCAA Division The = = had a busy spring practice schedule pre- Messerly agreed: ‘‘Our chances are very good if we all Adams agreed that it is a pte ert cay Da y

I © © , ‘ ? ”

The W&L sas att has not won the national cham- ae i sileuhiita ee aeesheee heer cae ne la pri ape bay va oy ae nel is : a) tay cae cab eons is to a Division III pro- 4
pionship yet, but they take a 14-8recordand No.4ranking _imately five hours on the court each day. The two-a-day _ there.’ We need to play great for three straight days, We gram), but added that no one in the tournament will have ;
to California in next week’s championship. The players _ workout schedule involves a singles and a doubles match, _ believe we can do it and we are working hard.” a home-court advantage as neither the host school, Clare-
are = — and a to go. pe — drills - ae ae The team cited depth — crucial to success in the team _ mont, nor any California schools are competing this year. *

- Scott Adams, the team’s only senior and its captain, ize commented, ‘I don’t thi tthere isany team competition — as W&L’s strength. : posed
said that when he first made the team almost four years — whois playing more than we are.”’ “We have just as much depth. as any one else,”’ Mes- t oe ; seo ee a tan A lay-
ago, he had no idea at all that he would be in southern Several players assert, however, that such preparation _serly said, while Matthews added that ‘‘depth is the key el at mas . i nore But. interesting] = a :
California vying for the top spot in the country — for the _ is only part of a mental and physical conditioning for the _ to the team.” r ath ving sede agen a - sonati a tan :
second time ina row. tournament began long before W&L received its bid. Freshman John McDonough, the Generals’ No. 7 man re es — : ee a

. : _ $ e 3 Si ” : ’ : . +
i gan vt. added: ‘‘Last year certainly made a like all year has been a pre-season,’ McLeod ~ ine ber : rear eae dosmrag bagi While California can be distracting, the Generals ap

‘Freshman Bobby Matthews, who plays at Flight No. 3 Jack Messerly, No. 5 player and McLeod’s doubles _ eat tennis’’ once it arrives in Claremont. parently are concentrating on something else.
for the Generals, is the only starter who has not playedin _— partner, echoed those thoughts. “‘We’ve been preparing ‘When we get to the tournament, it’s all tennis,’’ Mat- Messerly stated, ‘‘It’s cool to. be there, but ...’’ :
Kalamazoo favored for team title, but fa ‘bal d’ field 2

; ces Daiance ie
NAIA and D-III but became solely D- to a stress fracture and his situation Odds: 4to1. Eagles. team is the pair of Kruger and Allen :

ANALYSIS BY III this year... Defeated D-I Idaho is doubtful for the tournament... Will WASHINGTON COLLEGE Emory has plenty of firepower in who are ranked 13th... ‘We are con-

(7-2), Washington State (6-3), and rely on 1985 national singles finalist Chestertown, Md the singles flights with Steve Git- cerned about the team champion- :

MIKE SH ADY Portland (7-2)... Their D-III victims Shep Davidson (11-9, ITCA No. 3, Record: 21-3 tleson (15-12, ITCA No. 10) and Jim _ ship, said head coach Steve Wilkin-

include Claremont (6-3, ITCA No. 9), undefeated against D-III players in ype, Ranking: No. 5 Strauss (23-4, ITCA No. 16)...A pro- son, “and not as much the in- ‘

UC Santa-Cruz (5-4, ITCA No. 10), 1986) and David Sobel (ITCA No. 24) It’s the first time for the Shoremen lem may arise in doubles as the dividuals. “We've got a balanced

Cea aLivecticetnti Govstnarivin Vemasrerat, inteNCAActampleshsandGny age vere wl pace ary o tam aiengndpoetia”
ees = thi = i eir pairs in the nation’s to :12tol.

KALAMAZOO tournament by downing top-10 NAIA ed ninth by ITCA..."" don’t feel any Zimetanet lan te fa cert pogge - Stauss and Gittleson Fi WASHINGTON U. »
~ ac aoreagiae "Wwiltnen hes sae superstar’ in change,” s0id head coach Mae ‘Th Tr Dl Bury (78), MIT (one Betty team Chet was invied 6. Less, Ma

— : 2 (5-4), and Sewanee (6-3)... Won the to nationals in 1984...Ended up play- Record: 19-3
Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches’ Chris Gregerson (30-1, ITCA No. 6) Mullan. 2 feel confident in our eight-team Towson Tiger Classic... ing a total of 11 ranked D-III teams [TCA Ranking: No.8 ’
Agsociation Ranking: No. 1 whose only loss came to a D-I player team’s ability. Obtained its first ever Middle Atlan- with a record of 8-3...Two of those Of the teams in the bottom four, the -

The Hornets appear to be the team who was internationally ranked for Odds: 4 to 1. tic Conference title... Also destroyed _ three losses were to Kalamazoo (0-9) —_ Bears seem to have the most poten-
Sees ee Se eee sett Wola aad ten = WASHINGTON AND LEE Carson-Newman 7-2 ranked 18th in and Whitman (2-7)...”We feel confi- tial to cause problems for the higher- ‘

‘ vitation F ith si i ir fi
Deciarabina Finished ond last per the dudes ‘ants of Nash and Lexington, Va. "ae prc May Rs fae said by a Saar a ee takes ae .
ne Y ee ‘ : Record: 148 Washington College will have to seven of the teams there,”’ sai head appearance at the national cham-
oe _ 7a wn the David a ao are oot ITCA Ranking: No. 4 place high hopes on its doubles team coach Don Schroer. ‘‘We are definite- _pionships... Major victories during ‘
‘fads gy Vamdeeen et rs = pn b ee eons va The Generals sealed up their in- of Enrique Leal and Alejandro Her- ly even with six of them. the season were D-I St. Louis Univ. ’

kerDut (7-2), W y Dlov “~ vitation with an important midsea- nandez (17-2, ITCA No. 1, undefeated Odds: 9 to 1. (8-1), N. Kentucky (8-1), and Univ. of
Marquette (7-2) and University of Ss. singles or close with its doubles... ‘‘I son weekend split losing to Swarth- against D-Ill competition) if it wants GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS Missouri at St. Louis (9-0)... Wash- »
“Iorida ao -— D-IL power Rollins ee ‘ strong team and 7 more (98) Bat crushing Claremont: grab the title... Hernandez can’t be St. Peter, Minn. ington was defeated by both Emory y
va. : = i ed oo ep D- peer oar, ae ho (8-1)... D-I wins that also helped were overlooked as a singles player either, Record: 14-7 (3-6) and Gustavus (2-7)... They did, '
hae y by the score of 9-0. coach Furman. e have oe : owning a 17-7 recordand No.17ITCA {TCA Ranking: No. 7 however, come up with wins over
i never been in this tourne don’t William and Mary (5-4), Lehigh ;
Avila y SO we don : i : ranking... Lost to both W&L (4-5) and Their record may be deceiving for 17th-ranked Carleton (5-4) and r
Led by Tim Corwin (23-2, ITCA No. exactly know what to étpect (7-2), George Mason (8-1), and Univ. nd : .

ryt , i pect. : Swarthmore (3-6)... “This team is the Gusties own an 11-0 record DePauw (5-4), 22nd-ranked St.
2).and Alex Palladino (22-3, ITCA No. Odds: 5 to1 of Central Florida (9-0)... Second ‘Poraindt , : ‘
3), Kalamazoo has two players : : consecutive year that W&L has been Peyond belief,” said head coach : red against D-III schools... Had an in- Thomas (8-1) and 23rd-ranked Cen-
capable of taking the individual ti: SWARTHMORE asked to the nationals... Finished Wyman. “I just hope we are able to credibly tough schedule that contain- tral (81). a ;
‘le... Doubles team of Corwin and Swarthmore, Pa. eighth in last year’s event... Squeak- pring the pressure. It's all new to ed Wisconsin, Arizona St. and Ari- The Bears’ strength may lie in y
Jack Hosner are ranked fourth... Record: 11-11 ed by Washington College (5-4) inone them. zona... Won their conference cham- their best player, Duncan Seay (19-2,

Have a total of five out of nine flights ,ITCA Ranking: No.3 ; of the year’s toughest matches. Odds: 7 to 1. pionship for the 15th time out of 17 IA No. 5), who twice has beaten Toby +
‘anked by the ITCA... “We have to Defending champions, the Little Generals have a big gun in David EMORY years... Have been to the national Clark of Principia (ITCA No. 11, de- :
wait and see what happens and just Quakers’ .500 reoord is a result of a McLeod (ITCA No. 18) who upset Jeff Atlanta, Ga. championship every year since fending national singles champion)...
2ome out and play well,” said head difficult schedule...Scored wins over Krieger, the No. 1 seed in last year’s Record: 23-6 becoming a D-III school in '79.., This Seay was undefeated against D-III :
coach George Acker. “This is like a D-I Rutgers (5-4), Villanova (7-2) and national championships tourna- !TCA Ranking: No.6 season they have already won mat- competition. Bears will also rely on
‘inal exam: we either get an A, Bor George Washington (8-1)...Soundly ment... Can be awesome but lacks The Eagles’ season schedule reads ches against Washington Univ. (7-2, All-American Tim Spengler (ITCA
5 defeated Washington College (6-3), consistency... Roby Mize (ITCA No. like a D-III tennis greatest hits ITCANo. 8), Carleton (5-4, ITCA No. No. 27)... Record against common :

- Odds: 3 to 1. Claremont (7-2), W&L (6-3) and MIT 38) and Bobby Matthews (ITCA No, album...Have wins over Washington 17), and St. Thomas (9-0, ITCA No. opponents decided the issue as to :
(8-1), all nationally ranked 49) provide much needed depth, U. (6-3), as well as nationally ranked 22). whether Washington or ninth-ranked
“WHITMAN teams...Compiled a 6-1 record always a factor in the race for the Claremont (7-2), Redlands (6-2), the Gustavus’ top player, Mark Kru- Claremont, the host school, would be :
*Walla Walla, Wash. against D-III schools...Represented team title... ‘‘I feel thisis ateam that University of Wisconsin-Whitewater ger-ranked 25th by ITCA, has been _ invited... “We re a short, scrappy ’
‘Record: 21-2 at nationals for the 11th straight has earned the bid and now it’s just a_ (7-2), Central (8-0), Albany (9-0) and hindered by a herniated disc... Will team and I’m glad politics didn’t
“PCA Ranking: No. 2 year. matter of putting the pieces Wooster (90)...D-I victims include need plenty of support from Jim come into play, said head coach .
’ The Missionaries make their first | Swarthmore has been without the together,” said head coach Gary Furman (9-0), Dartmouth (8-1), Allen and Roger Gilbertson Nos. 42 Steve Gilbert, “I felt we were the bet- »
“‘\ppearance at the Championships... services of Jeff Krieger, its and the Franke. “Whoever has the best three Samford (6-0) and Georgia State and 58, respectively) in order to pull _ ter team. :
“Vere a joint member last year of nation’s No. 1 player of last year, due days is going to winit.”” (6-3)...Second trip to nationals forthe off the upset.. Strongest doubles Odds: 12 to1. j
a ;..3 q
= —/.
7 iti Tennis it |
3 as ricn court tradition i" F
’ 19 @
a national power since 1977 ole ape hionatigads I
. +

~ Staff Reporter character-wise, as well as talent- and third-ranked Swarthmore. The ;
. mae? Generals rose to the occasion and 74
As the fourth-ranked Though W&L was a Division III showed ‘that they deserved to be a

- Washington and Lee tennis squad
- travels to Claremont, Calif. for
- the NCAA Division III tennis
.. championships, it carries with it a
- rich history of tournament suc-
. cess, particularly in recent years.
This year’s team hopes to better
. the impressive performance of
» last season’s eighth-place finish.
“ This year’s invitation is the sec-
ond for W&L, since Division III
‘* began conducting team cham-
“> pionships in 1983.
'. Before 1983, when the team
- champion was determined by the
success of each team’s individual
participants in the national tour-
nament, W&L had quite a string of
national powers. The Generals
were in the top 10 for five straight
seasons from 1977-81.

The Generals finished second in
1977 and 1978, fourth in 1979 and
1980 and sixth in 1981. W&L head
coach Gary Franke guided the
teams of 1979-81, but his pre-

_decessor Dennis Bussard, now the
coach at Divsion II power Univer-

sity of Tennessee-Martin, pioneer-
ed W&L’s national development.

Bussard, who began coaching at

-W&L in 1974, succeeded in three
straight Old Dominion Athletic

team, Bussard said the competi-
tion during his tenure was pre-
dominantly Divix n Division I.

One who can reminisce even
more than Bussard or Franke is
current women’s tennis coach Bill
Washburn, who has experienced
two eras of W&L men’s tennis —
as a player in the late 1930s and as
the men’s coach from 1959-66.

Washburn compared past tennis
with present. ‘When I was a
player, there was nowhere near
the emphasis on tennis that there
is today. It certainly didn’t have
the influence.”

Washburn recounted that W&L
belonged to the Southern Con-
ference in his days as a player,
and played Division I level op-
ponents like Maryland and Vir-
ginia.

As a coach, Washburn’s squad
belonged to the College Athletic
Conference, which he called ‘‘not
much different from the ODAC.”

“We had a good men’s team,”’
he continued, ‘‘that was respected
in the conference.”’ But, he admit-
ted, ‘‘the teams then were not as
talented as they are now.”’

Under present head coach

;
é
Es

 

 

W&L’s first All-Americans Stewart Jackson (1) and Ben Johns compete in 1977

teams have also claimed five

 

WA&L Sports Information

among Division III’s top eight,
defeating Claremont, 8-1, and
challenging Swarthmore, though los-
ing 6-3.

The Swarthmore weekend combin-
ed with a 5-4 defeat of Washington
College, undoubtedly served as key
criteria for including W&L among
the eight at the national tournament.

The Generals wound up the bulk of
season play with a decisive Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionship victory and since then have
stepped up the intensity and are en-
couraged, on their own, to play as
much as possible, which for some
means as much as five hours a day.

Saturday, the Generals fly to
California, but they won't get a mo-
ment’s rest. When they arrive in
Claremont, W&L will squeeze in a
practice match with Division II
University of Tennessee at Martin.
UT-Martin is coached by Franke’s
predecessor Dennis Bussard.

Franke is confident of the team, its
preparation and chances of success.

‘This team has been able to rise to
the occasion in every situation
they've faced. With some of those
Division I teams early on in the

Hh egy -

Sil A "ly, ate

Yr.

a hi a a
tae ome

Hemme we oer me

Franke, the Generals have been
increasingly impressive, sending
players to the national tourna-
ment seven of his eight seasons at
the Generals’ helm, and the entire
team for the team championships
the last two years. Franke’s

Could 1986 be another red letter
year for W&L tennis? Franke is
confident: ‘We match up well
with all the teams in the tourna-
ment,”’ he said. ‘‘All we have to do
is have three good days it’s
wide open,”’

world, being led by a group of three
freshmen and a sophomore. W&L
had three All-Americans last year,
two of whom, David McLeod and
Chris Wiman, return to this year’s
championship contender.

season they may have come off the
court thinking that they could have
won the match and as a result they
still have some hungriness about
them,” Franke said, “This tourna-
ment looks wide open, and W&L has
the potential to beat any of the teams
competing.”

‘onference championships and
»ack-to-back runner-up finishes at
the national championships, led
»y W&L’s first All-Americans,
3en Johns and Stewart Jackson.
W&L was Bussard’s first exper-

ODAC crowns, including three of
the last four.

Last year’s national champion-
ship team which finished eighth
was somewhat of a surprise to the
rest of the Division III tennis

 

 

 
 

a yee

7 pie FT : P
we OT at i?
’ - El 2 tg Meee SE FN;

* John Ware takes a shot on Loyola goaltender John Pfeiffer

Blitzed

y oF
EY rem

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

_ Wé€L crushed by Loyola, will finish below .500 for fourth year

v
_ By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

o

All hopes for a winning lacrosse
. record evaporated on Saturday, with
the Generals’ third loss in as many
... games. The 20-6 trouncing by Loyola
« College: lowered Washington and
Lee’s mark to 5-7 with but a single

* contest remaining.

This makes the fourth consecutive
“season in which W&L lacrosse has
«finished below .500.

* Loyola is a Top 15 team and seems
«to be headed for the NCAAs tourna-
,ment. The Greyhounds came into

Lexington looking to hone their skills
before starting the tournament, look-
_ing for a tune-up match.

, Head coach Dennis Daly said his
team was ready for the game, but
" Loyola was more ready.

“I think they went out there with
’ all good intentions. It was a matter of

‘Athletes are academic

Athletes at Washington and Lee
‘University once again proved that
, their books are as important as their
games this week when the athletic
‘department released its Academic-
Athletic Honor Roll for the winter
term of the 1985-86 school year.

* Twelve of W&L’s 17 athletic teams
shad combined grade point averages

~ of at least 2.6. The student body’s
‘average grade point for the winter
»term was 2.68.

another team being extremely up
because they were getting ready for
the tournament.”’

Loyola blitzed the General defense
and-goalie John Church for six goals
during a 3:49 span in the first
quarter, putting the Generals into a
hole they were unable to climb out of.

“We're beginning to realize just
how important John [Church] is to
our overall scheme of things,”’ said
Daly. ‘‘Not only does he stop the
other team from scoring but he leads
our transition.”

Daly continued, ‘“‘When he’s not
having his best day, then, yes, we’re
in trouble.”’

Building off that first period blitz,
Loyola fashioned a 7-0 lead after one
quarter, an 11-0 lead at the half.

“They were quicker than we
were,”’ said Daly. ‘‘We were not able
to execute anything we wanted to ex-
ecute. Some teams have strengths
that are opposite yours and we tried

to counter that. We didn’t always get
an opportunity to counter it.’’

Daly continued, ‘‘They were
already down the field and had done
their damage before we were able to
get on what we wanted to do to
counter, They’re a very good team.”

The Generals played the first half
without the services of leading scorer
G.T. Corrigan.

According to Daly, Corrigan, along
with sophomore midfielder Greg
Unger and freshman defenseman
Frank Sands, was found to have
broken the team’s training rules.

As punishment for the violation,
the three players were not allowed to
dress for the first half and could not
stand with the team on the field, Daly
said.

Daly stressed that the incident is
considered to be closed, and that
these are not the first players to be
punished. He said that other players
had been reprimanded in the past for

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

US 11 North

 

Stroh’s Long necks
Natty Botong necks

 

 

 

 

 

 

Full supply of Mother’s
Day cards and gifts and

graduation cards and gifts.

 

 

 

a

 

 

165 S. Main

 

faffmorE [hte Florist
Stir something up
for Mother’s Day!

Welcome Alumni!!

 

 

463-9152

 

 

 

 

 

similar violations, but that this was
simply the first time players had
been punished at a home game.

This Saturday, the team will go on
the road to face the University of
Maryland-Baltimore County, but the
road has been unkind to W&L this
season.

The Generals have not won a game
on the road in four attempts this
year, something they obviously hope
to change this weekend.

UM-BC has a 5-7 record, but all
their losses have come at the hands
of Top 15 teams. They lost to No. 4
Maryland, No. 5 North Carolina, No.
6 Navy, No. 11 Loyola, No. 12
Delaware, and No. 13 Duke. But they
defeated No. 3 Virginia, a team that
beat the Generals.

“It will be which team can go and
play closest to its potential,’’ said Da-
ly. “It’s the last game of the season
and a lot of the hopes are gone.”’

The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986, Page 9

Remember the fun?

 

The old masters do

....When I was young(er), I am
told, I used to hit plastic golf balls in
my front yard. I had no concept of
what I was doing. (1 probably had no
concept of when to use the restroom
either, but that’s another matter for
now.) It didn’t seem to matter all
that much, then. I remember that
when I was young I used to play en-
tire football games by myself.

It didn’t seem to matter that every game I played was won on the final
play. It was fun. When I was older, I used to (well, I still do) pound ten-
nis balls against the wall for hours on end. It was, andis, fun.

All of this gets me wondering if sports — athletics, whatever you
want to call it — is fun for the participation like my pseudo-sports are
fun for me. | wonder about those who are sort of my peers, the Olden
Polynices, the John McEnroes, the Bo Jacksons.

I see Olden in all sorts of tangles at U.Va. I’m thinking Olden would
find it fun to go shoot hoops alone, maybe pretending to be playing the
NBA Championship series, first being Larry Bird and then Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar (i-e., pretending to be somebody famous instead of hav-
ing to be somebody famous).

I see John McEnroe having to get away from it all because tennis
isn’t fun anymore. The last time the No. 1 player in the world thought
tennis wasn’t fun anymore and left to get away from it all, he never
came back. Isn’t it sad that the place he felt most at home suddenly
became a prison? I’m thinking John McEnroe might like to go out
alone with the wall and replay a Rod Laver-Ken Rosewall match of the
past. Maybe he would feel at home. Maybe he would have fun.

I see Bo Jackson being talked about like some piece of riverfront
property and I wonder if he minds. There’s no question we'd all like to
be valued commodities. But I think we'd all also agree that it would be
best if the emphasis were on the first word rather than the second. I
wonder if Bo remembers his first football with as much contentment
as his first round pick. Or is he too caught up in whether he will make
millions and from whom he will make those millions?

I was worrying about all of this the other day as I went to the post of-
fice to see how many newspapers don’t want me to work for them,
thinking how much I hated the whole business that used to be fun. I
was thinking all that and realizing I was just as bad as my friends who
play games for a living. Perhaps it would be best for all of us young
bucks to take heed of the old masters tearing up all the circuits of late.

See Jack Nicklaus having fun and winning, in that order. See Willie
Shoemaker choked up about winning his fourth Derby instead of ask-
ing for the check and looking for his next ride. See Bobby Allison get-
ting kissed in the winner’s circle by some sweet thing young enough to
be his granddaughter.

Somehow I find it hard to believe that life is all that tougher, the
younger you are. Yet, those angry young men like McEnroe, Polynice
and Jackson are still doing things and are or will be getting paid to do
something you and I used to pretend to do and only dreamed about.
Heck, guys, if it’s all that bad, I need a job. Why not trade places with
me? I’m a nobody and I’m still able to pretend.

I don’t expect to get too many offers....

.... Turning ever so carefully to the Colonnade, I don’t care how
hokey it sounds, it sure would be nice if at all possible for the lacrosse
seniors to get a win in their last game for W&L...The tennis team is
enough of an outside threat to be overlooked by the powers that be. If
this group gets ona roll, there’s no stopping. Monday's first match will
be key. Some early singles wins could set the tone for a W&L surprise
on Monday...

....90 Sugar Ray Leonard is talking big. Since even his wife is involv-
ed in the hype, I’m thinking the Leonards are thinking about an addi-
tion to the family residence. Either that, or pretty boy really thinks he
can take Hagler, in which case we all should be worried....SI says Ed-
monton players may be involved in a little nose candy action. What an
unfortunate possibility for a sport that (the only one in the majors) has
steered clear of such problems...

....Finally, word from the NCAA is that Tito Horford will be allowed
to play basketball at the University of Miami after the first semester
next December. Wonder if he’ll stay with the team through the start of
the second semester...

 

TIME
OUT....

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

Furniture Dealers

“For your extra pieces of furniture”

pare er Summer Fall Spring
$ ReadThe SERVIDIAR. WASHINGTON
Open ‘til midnite : Classifieds : Lexington Herdwere OR LON DON

Bivscoveccnccocesccsscoccocces 463-2242 INTERNSH IPS

For Rent OXFORD ““se"

Large House In The Country Full Academic Years In

Call . wee University
463-251 8 ° St. Andrews, Scotland
VARNER & POLE Jill’s A Lady | | “itroughtamoder-sydney

463-2742

 

 

 

 

CAPER’S INC.

Hairstyling, Manicures, Tanning, Cosmetics, Etc.
“When only the best will do!”
NEW! Paul Mitchell Systems

Shampoo, Conditioning, Etc.
NEW! Stop Smoking, Lose Weight

Subliminal Tapes

25 N. Main St., Lexington

-They really work-$9.95

463-2566

 

 

 

College, founded in Virginia by
James Madison in 1776.
Graduate work is an option.
The Director of Studies for the
Center for Quality Education
Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt.
Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt.

_ (Oxon,), Fellow of the British
Academy, Professor Emeritus
of Government and Fellow of
All Souls, Oxford.
INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK, J.D.,
Admissions Director CQEA/
WISC, Rm 53, 158 W. 81 St.,
NY,NY, 10024.
(212-724-0804/724-0136).

(EO/AA)

126 S. Main St.

Welcome
Back

Alumni!

Come in and brouse.

All famous name brand
clothes and accessories.

 

 

 

 

 

The Ladies’ Habit

(formerly Russel’s)

Come in and acquire our habit.

habit (hab’it), n. 1. costume; dress. 2. a costume worn for certain occasions; as, a
woman’s riding habit. 3. a thing done often and hence, usually, done easily; prac-
tice; custom; act that is acquired and has become automatic.

Co-owners:

Linda Flint and Judy Jay

“ 22 W. Nelson St.

Lexington, Va.
463-9340

 

Visa, MasterCard
American Express
 

 

 

 

 

ee st cS

wi =

wa koe

2

-

a a |

Qannrnwnornr uu

STAN a

“BACK PAGE

Heinsohn & Day make room

 

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Is there room in today’s music
world for an acoustic pop duo?

Heinsohn and Day are not alto-
gether sure. However, being one of
those ‘“‘acoustic pop duos,’”’ they
would certainly like to think there is
room.

“That's a question,” said guitarist-
vocalist and 1985 W&L graduate
Roger Day. ‘‘We might spark a new
folk-pop movement, or we might
have to change the line-up.”

“It’s been years and years since an
acoustic pop duo made it on the
charts,” added fellow band member
and 1983 graduate Eric S. Heinsohn.

Nonetheless, Heinsohn and Day
have proven ina very short time that
there is at least a great deal of
interest in an acoustic pop duo. Then,
again, it might simply be that there is
a great deal of interest in Heinsohn
and Day.

Officially a duo since last August,
Heinsohn and Day have gone from
playing small gatherings to prepar-
ing for the recording of their first
album — all in nine months.

‘‘We’re real pleased with how well
we've done.”’ Day said,

The two met in the W&L Glee Club
and used to play guitars on Glee Club
tours. Heinsohn went to the Universi-
ty of Virginia after graduation and
began working on a master’s degree
in English. Day and classmate John
W. Herndon made frequent jaunts to
Charlottesville and began putting
together a repertoire for a then-
nameless trio.

Heinsohn, meanwhile, was gearing
up to do some backup work for MCA
records. When the deal fell through,
he decided to devote his energies to
the new trio. Herndon left to coach
high school basketball in North
Carolina, the trio became a duo, and
in August of last year, ‘‘Heinsohn and

Day” was born.

It hasn't been an easy 10 months
for the two. For instance, last
November's flooding caused them to
lose their house and belongings.

“It’s definitely been work,’’ Hein-
sohn said. “It’s not like we’re just
running around playing guitar and
having fun. There are a lot of things
that need to be done in order to be
successful.”

The two are moving permanently
to Atlanta this week, hence solving
their ‘‘lack of home base”’ problem.

The two have approximately 15 to
20 original compositions ready for a
new album, seven or eight of which
are already in the group’s live act.
They said the songs span a variety of
styles — country and western, rhy-
thm and blues, rock and roll, jazz and
bluegrass. Remember — this is the
group that played ‘Johnny B.
Goode’’ at a bluegrass festival!

‘‘We like to be pop, like the Simon
and Garfunkel, Mark Knopfler side
of things,”’ Day said.

“Our music is aimed at a wide au-
dience,”’ added Heinsohn. “I’ve
studied classical music and so forth,
but I cut my teeth on popular music.”’

The two are not sure where the new
record will be recorded — here in
Lexington or in Atlanta — but they
already have begun sorting out their
ideas with Robby Tribbs of Lex-
ington’s own Sound Trap Studio.

In the meantime, you can catch
Heinsohn and Day tonight in the Sub-
way or Saturday afternoon on the
Colonnade. Saturday’s performance,
incidentally, will be their last Lex-
ington performance for the year.

The question remains: can an
acoustic duo make it in today’s world
of Tears for Fears and Van Halen?

“One of the things that tipped us off
was that we were instantly greeted
with a response,’ Heinsohn said.
“We've never played to an indif-
ferent audience. Lexington has given
us a lot of confidence.”

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

—* @

 

. ee

 

By Cotton Puryear/W&L Publications

 

 

Eric Heinsohn (left) and Roger Day perform at a concert

—_$—<$< < <<<

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, May 8
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘‘Behold a Pale Horse.’’ Room 327,
Commerce School.

Jason Miller's 1972 Off-Broadway hit ‘“That Championship Season”
will be performed tonight, tomorrow night and Saturday night at 8 in
the University Theatre. Reservations for the performances can be
made by calling the theater office at 463-8637 weekdays from 10a.m. to
4p.m.

8 p.m. — ALUMNI REUNION LECTURE: “A Fullback’s
Flashbacks.’ Walt Michaels '51, former head coach of New York Jets
and New Jersey Generals. Lee Chapel.

Friday, May 9
7:30 p.m, — RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: “A Slave of Love.”’ Northen
Auditorium, University Library.
8 p.m. — PLAY: “That Championship Season.” University Theatre.

Saturday, May 10
Alumni Weekend.
3 p.m, — ALUMNI BASEBALL GAME: Smith Field.
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘That Championship Season.” University Theatre.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘“‘Dick Sessions Band.”’ G.H.Q.

Sunday, May 11
3 p.m. — FAIR CONCERT; Dance Recital. Lexington High School.

Monday, May 12

Law school examinations end.
7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILMS SERIES:
“Human Bullet.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.
8 p.m, — SLIDE LECTURE: “The Life and Work of Henry Strater.”’
Michael Culver, Curator of Ogunquit Museum of Art. duPont
Auditorium.
8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘“‘Pentagon Procurement Pollution.”’ A. Ernest
Fitzgerald. Management Systems Deputy, ASAF. Room 221, Com-
merce School.

Tuesday, May 13

3:30 p.m. — ASTRONOMY LECTURE: ‘“‘Space Telescope: The Obser-
vancy of the Future.”’ Laurence W. Fredrick, Dept. of Astronomy,
University of Virginia. Room 201, Parmly Hall.

4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Reading
by Peter Taylor, novelist and short story writer. Northen Auditorium.
University Library.

8 p.m, — ASTRONOMY LECTURE: ‘Ancient Monuments and the
Game of Checkers.” Laurence W. Fredrick. Northen Auditorium.
University Library.

Wednesday, May 14
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILMFEST: “‘The Mouse That Roared.”” Room
327, Commerce Sohool.
8 p.m. — LECTURE: “Ancient Medicine: Magic, Superstition, and
Science.” Christopher Pelling, University College, Oxford. Northen
Auditorium, University Library.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘‘Push/Code Red.’ Sponsored by the Student Ac-

Spring term chops
male/female ratio

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

 

POLO SALE

 

Kappa Sigma is proud to present 2 Folo sale
Thursday, May 15
From 10:30 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
At the Kappa Sigma Fraternity house

You will fird significant reductions in oxfords, rugbys
polo knit shirts, sweaters, etc

Visa & MasterCard Accepted

 

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy’
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

e Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

e Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to

go.

    
 

Ria

1985 Pizza Hut. inc

 

e Each Wednesday night,
§:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only °3.49. Children under 6
years-99

 

 

 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

 

$9 OFF

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In
cludes Pizza Hut’ Pan
Pizza' Hurry. offer ex
pires soon One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut’
restaurants

 
   

Hut.

on
Pizza

Please present coupon when ordering. Not valid in combination with another
p offer 20 cent cash redemption valve. 1983 Pizza Hut, Inc. Good only through

$ 4 OFF
2 Offer

600 E. Nelsonst. @XPires
Lexington, VA May

463-7000
20,

1986

 

When I was looking at Washington
and Lee while still in high school, one
of the trump cards the recruiters
held was that, although W&L was an
all-male school, there were four
girls’ schools in the area providing
the famous 2-1 ratio. What the re-
cruiters neglected to add was that
midway through the term, this
ceases to be the case, and at this time
of the year, many students would be
freer to spend time with students
from other schools than at some
other times. This situation can be
viewed in both positive and negative
lights.

Before getting to opinions, we
should look at a few facts. Randolph-
Macon Woman's College has already
finished final exams and has only its
graduation ceremonies left. Hollins
College finishes exams in about a
week. Sweet Briar College ends ex-
ams on the fifteenth of this month
and Mary Baldwin College is now in
the midst of a spring semester that

allows many students to leave cam-
pus.

What's a man to do when all of the
women around have hit the road?
Some people may be rejoicing —
either they don’t like the girls from
down the road, or they have recently
done things that they are embarras-
sed about and don’t want to see ‘‘the
chicks.”’ (Often these things are

forgotten by the time September rolls
around.)

Some may be glad to see the skirts
leave so that they can cut loose and
do some “boys only”’ activities. Or,
one may be not unhappy to see the
girls leave because he has done no
work yet spring term and is now free
from non-academic distraction until
exams.

Most W&L men, however, probably
don’t look forward to seeing the girls
leave. W&L without the girls’ schools
is not the W&L one bargained for
upon enrollment. With the present
schedules at the schools, there is not
much choice but to live with the situ-
ation. If all else fails, follow a car
from VMI up to Staunton and take
your chances.

Figure artist featured

“Henry Strater: Sixty-five Years
of Painting the Figure,”’ a loan show
from the Museum of Art of Ogunquit,
Maine, will be on exhibit in duPont
Gallery from Monday through June
5.

The collection of 30 oil paintings
was selected by the artist and depicts
one or two paintings from each per-
iod of his career as a figure painter.
At the age of 90, Strater still is pain-
ting actively and says he has no in-
tention of retiring.

In addition to the oil paintings in
duPont Gallery, 20 line drawings by
Strater, which were donated to the
Washington and Lee art department,
will be exhibited in an adjacent
gallery

Strater was born in 1896 in Louis-
ville, Kentucky. After attending

Princeton University, he served as a
Red Cross volunteer in France dur-
ing World War I. He stayed in Paris
to study art and there he began his
career as a figure painter. His works
are currently, exhibited in major
museums and galleries throughout
the United States and Europe. The
major collection of his paintings,
however, is in the Museum of Art of
Ogunquit on the Maine coast.

Michael Culver, Curator of the
Ogunquit Museum of Art in Maine,
will present a slide lecture on ‘‘The
Life and Work of Henry Strater’’ on
Monday at 8 p.m. in duPont Auditor-
ium. A reception honoring Strater
will follow the lecture.

DuPont Gallery hours are 9 a.m. to
5 p.m.. Monday through Friday, 11
a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday, and 2 to 4
p.m. Sunday.

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

Mon.-Sat, 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

 

Library.

327, Commerce School.

sion.”

 

tivities Board. Cover charge $2.50. G.H.Q.

Thursday, May 15
4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Poetry
reading by Gwendolyn Brooks. Northen Auditorium, University

7 p. m.— POLITICS FILMFEST: “The Mouse That Roared.” Room

7 p.m, — FILM: “Not a Love Story.” A film about pornography. Nor-
then Auditorium, University Library. Followed by ‘‘an open discus-

 

 

Chowhounds call Lex

‘milkshake capital’

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

O to have a shake now that spring
is here!

Really, can there be any doubt that
the milkshake has become one of the
cornerstones of American culture?
When the mercury starts rising and
your stomach is sending you death
threats, what better way to kill two
birds with one slurp?

But little does anyone know that
Lexington is the milkshake capital of
Virginia. Yes, our fine, frosty friends
can be found in establishments all
over the city. We knew it was our du-
ty (tough as it may be) to personally
taste each one in order to find the hot-
test shake in town.

In order to be fair, we made this a
blind taste test in which we would
rate all of the shakes before we knew
which was which. Freshman Stepha-
nie Smith acted as our Certified
Shake Selector and mediator of this
momentus event.

The results were as follows:

eThe Palms:

Although most people do not know
it, the Palms does have shakes. This
shake was very sweet (even by ice
cream standards) and had a good bit
of ice cream init.

One thing we noticed was the
rather inconsistent consistency of the
Palms’ shake. It was mostly very
thin, with big glops of ice cream
floating around. Your personal pre-
ference can decide whether this is
good or bad.

¢McDonalds:

This was one mighty funny-looking
shake, with the look and consistency
of melted marshmallow. Almost im-
mediately, Chris went out on an
epicurean limb and pronounced this
to be a non-dairy milkshake (a non-
shake?). This was a very sweet
shake, with an almost gritty taste
from the added sugar.

eSpanky’s:

Now this was a good, old-fashioned,
vanilla milkshake. With medium
thickness and lot of lumps of ice

ec ernrerenete ete ent apna tee aN 9 OP SNE enpae

cream, this shake was a pleasure to
drink. Best of all, it was not too
sweet, but had a strong vanilla taste
to it. Good straw cling, for those of
you who like to lick the straw.

Sweet Things:

This shake was a lot thinner than
Spanky’s, but also had that good
vanilla taste to it. This shake was
also not overly sweet due to the
noticeable taste of real milk.

The only drawback was at the end.
Each of our shakes had a bubbly
foam at the bottom that did not taste
good at all. Perhaps this could be at-
tributed to what seemed to be a
higher milk content.

*Lloyd’s of Lexington:

We knew this was going to be a
thick shake when we saw the straws
stand rigid in the middle of the cup.
But unlike the McDonald’s shake,
this one did not require a gas
generator to force it through the
straw. This shake was very generous
on the ice cream, resulting in a very
generous taste.

Co-op:

This shake had many small lumps
of ice cream, but was still relatively
thin. Chris thought this shake was a
good mixture of milk and ice cream,
but Jamie disagreed, saying it was
too sweet and had an overpowering
vanilla taste.

After some serious contemplation,
we chose the shake that we enjoyed
most, and then our CSS informed us
what was what. Chris had selected
Spanky's as the best of the six. He
thought this shake was the best all-
around blend of flavors, although the
exorbitant price and relatively small
size of the shake may deter the
average shake drinker.

Much to his surprise, Jamie chose
Lloyd’s as the best of the bunch.
Jamie thought the taste and texture
of the shake made it stand out.
“Could Lloyd be personally adding
some secret ingredient?” Jamie
pondered aloud. Nevertheless,
Lloyd’s price and 24-hour service
seems to make his the most conven-
ient of the group.

We guess this all goes to disprove

that old saying, ‘‘A shake is a shake
is a shake.”’

ll dll

 

 

 
