 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a it ge

 

RA Ng a NG nee yy tN te eng

es

’
4

 

 

si} >
ory
2.

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 25

Low scores spark
golf team win

 
  
 

Page 5

  

 

40s

 

WASHINGTON ANDLEE UNIVERSITY

Middle-aged rockers
release 20th album

Page 6

 

ah I

 

 

Che Ring-tumn Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your exam weather

Friday: Sunny, mid-70s
Partly cloudy thru Sun.

 

APRIL 3, 1986

 

SAB reports
$10,000 loss

=

’ ‘By DANIEL BUNCH

4

Staff Reporter

 

The Student Activities Board lost
about $10,000 on student events since
March, according to its winter bud-
get report given at Monday night’s
Executive Committee meeting.

The SAB reported a loss of $5,460 on
Fancy Dress weekend and $4,900 on
the Violent Femmes concert March
15.

SAB Chairman Mike Guerriero
said that although the losses repre-
sent a departure from what the board
expects this year, they will have ‘‘no
effect’’ on SAB plans for spring term.

Guerriero said similar losses were
‘standard’ and unpredictable at
parties last year, but that improved
accounting practices implemented
this year have enabled the board to
keep better track of its finances.

“We're better managing the funds
we have available to us,’’ Guerriero
said.

Guerriero estimated that the SAB
has close to $15,000 remaining in its
budget for the year.

“It wasn’t a big surprise to lose
$5,000,’’ SAB treasurer George Boras
said of the FD loss.

Boras said that they ‘‘didn’t really
have a set mark’’ on how much they
were going to lose.

Boras said one of the reasons for
the loss was a disappointing turnout
at the Thursday night concert, feat-
uring Let’s Active and the dB’s. Part
of the $35 for Fancy Dress tickets

went to subsidize the concert.
Boras said the SAB bounced a $40

check during preparations for Fancy
Dress. He said that the SAB gave out
20 or 30 blank checks to people who
had to purchase supplies and the bad
check was a result of some of those
people not properly recording their
expenses.

The SAB lost about $4,900 on the
Violent Femmes concert March 15.

 

Age bracelets
called ‘charade’

A Student Activities Board
regulation that students at SAB
parties wear colored wristbands
to differentiate those who can
drink legally from those who can’t
is a ‘“‘charade’’ put on for the
Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, SAB Chairman Mike Guer-
riero said at Monday night’s Ex-
ecutive Committee meeting.

The wristbands were used at
Fancy Dress, but students were
not required to show them to get
beer.

‘We waste an awful lot of time
putting those things on people’s
hands,”’ EC President John Lewis
said.

“It’s a charade for the ABC,”
Guerriero responded.

 

 

 

Boras said that when it was first an-
nounced that the band was going to
play there was a very good response,
but the actual turnout was poor.

The SAB also announced that the
White Animals and the Voltage
Brothers will be playing May 2 in the
student activities pavilion. There will
also be a “‘small band”’ playing a free
concert on the Colonnade.

The EC also voted to amend the
White Book so that the president and
vice president of the Student Bar
Association, who are responsible for
chairing “open” honor trials, will
have to decide at the beginning of
their terms in office whether to chair
the hearings or act as defense ad-
vocates.

The motion passed 8-4 with Andrew
Caruthers, Tony McCann, Baltzer
LeJeune and Bill Senft voting
against. It passed last week also, but
had to pass again to become final.

ers es

 

Hat trick

Senior Billy Holmes, on the attack for the Generals, fakes high and goes
low with a shot that tied the game against Towson State at 9-9 in the fourth
quarter on Saturday. It was Holmes’ third goal of the game and his 11th of

One incumbent loses post

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Sophomore Brandt Wood defeated
incumbent Executive Committee
representative Pat Schaefer in
Thursday’s runoff election for next
year’s undergraduate EC members.

That makes Schaefer the only
undergraduate committee member
to lose a re-election race. Law School
elections have not yet been held.

In sophomore EC voting, Brad
Root led with 134 votes, Wood follow-
ed with 99, and the runners-up were

Schaefer with 93, and Tom O’Brien
with 75. Of the sophomore ballots

cast, 49 did not include votes for EC

representatives.

Junior Andrew Caruthers, who last
month lost a bid to become student
body president, was elected a senior
representative, as was incumbent
Baltzer LeJeune.

Freshmen Matt Bryant and
Christopher deMovellan were elected
EC representatives of their class.

In class officer voting, Mike
McAllister was elected next year’s

 

 

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

freshman Keri Hinrichs solved the tanning-studying dilemma by taking her books to a bench on the back campus this week

Testy?

‘Academic suicide’ said to result from exam-time slackness

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

In less than 48 hours, the University community
will have already begun one of the most trying
periods of the school year: winter term exams.

Exams at this time of the year are particularly
difficult because of the nice weather that we have
been experiencing, the late winter burn-out, and
the ever-present thoughts about spring vacation.
Even so, one must do his best to be prepared for
exams, because to succumb to the temptation of
slack studying for exams is a sure-fire effective
form of academic suicide.

People prepare for exams in many ways. A cer-
tain part of the student body manages to line up
courses that do not have exams and in this way,
they ‘‘beat the system’ by not having to take
many, if any, exams.

Another group does full preparation throughout

the term, and in this way is able to get a good
night’s rest before exams because these people
are permeated with knowledge. It seems that dur-
ing the week preceding and the first week of any
given term, about 95 percent of the student body
claims they will do this. As the term goes on, the
weekends come, and the snooze buttons on clock
radios get slammed mercilessly on a daily basis,
the number of people actually adhering to the ‘‘full
preparation’ regimen dwindles

What then, does the majority of the student body
do to prepare for exams? Except for those who
have little chance to improve their dismal grades
even with a final worth 50 percent of the grade,
there are many things to do in order to do well on
exams.

Scheduling is always important. Most people
who pull the “Saturday, Monday morning, Mon-
day afternoon, Tuesday morning, Florida”
routine end up with horrendous exam grades
which translate into lowered term grades. This

system requires innumerable cups of coffee and
many doses of No-Doz or Vivarin.

A common trait of the person who schedules like
this is also a great deal of the, ‘‘Exams-are-killing-
me-and-I-haven’t-slept-in-72-hours ' type rhetoric
Who really cares to hear that kind of thing while
riding down the library elevator? It is tough to
have pity on someone who schedules his exams
stupidly.

The majority of the student body seems to take
exams at the pace between the ‘‘full preparation’’
and the “get out of here quick’’ extremes. Most
people seem to be somewhat knowledgeable about
course material and do a healthy amount of cram-
ming in order to try to ace exams. They spread out
the tests until Thursday, and often fill The Palms
on Saturday night in order to take a break after
the first exam

This system has an advantage over the ‘‘get out
quick”’ system in that, if one does not do well, he

See Exams, Page 4

oe

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

the season. The Generals lost the game 12-9 after coming back from a 7-3
deficit. Yesterday, the Generals beat cross-town rival Virginia Military In-
stitute, 20-2, to raise their record to 4-3. See story, page 5.

senior class president. Rob Tolleson,
Rich Hobson and Vin LaManna are
the vice presidents for the class.

The junior class will be led ‘next
year by Mike Henry as president and
Doug Elliot as vice president. The
president of the rising sophomore
class is Jim Ambrosini and the vice
president is David Thompson.

University Council representatives
are Bill Brown, John Brownlee and
Tyler Carr for the class of 1987,
Charles Lyle and Michael Suttle for
the class of 1988, and Carol Couch and
Rob Guyton for the class of 1989.

 

Correction

Due to an error in a Lexington
police report last week, The Ring-
tum Phi misidentified a fraternity
involved in an altercation.

The fraternity fight with Zeta
Beta Tau involved Phi Kappa Psi.

The case is still under investiga-
tion and no charges have been fil-
ed by ZBT according to Lt. Bruce
Beard of the Lexington Police.

The incident involved a ‘‘fun-
nelator’ slingshot that shot
oranges and grapefruits at the
ZBT house, breaking one window.

 

 

 

‘High-powered’ panel
to discuss DOD budget

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

According to the Congressional
Budget Office, the Department of
Defense will spend over $300 billion
this year and next.

Is there a problem in how the De-
partment of Defense spends this
money, and if so, what are solutions
to the problem?

The answers to these and other
questions will be the main topics of a
panel discussion to be held in Lee
Chapel on April 25.

Washington and Lee senior John
Falk, who has been organizing the
discussion for Contact ‘86 since the
beginning of the year. The purpose of
the discussion, titled ‘The Procure-
ment of America’s Defense: 1986 and
Beyond’’ is ‘‘to present a_ well-
balanced and informative perspec-
tive of some very important issues.”’

The “high-powered” panel, Falk
said, will be composed of seven men
able to present a different view of the
Department of Defense’s procure-
ment process.

The panelists will be:

eCongressman Denny Smith (R.
Ore.), who is co-chairman of the
military reform caucus and will pre-
sent the Congressional Reform per-
spective.

Senior William A. Michaud was
charged March 5 with possession
of cocaine, Lexington Police Chief
L.O. Sutton said yesterday

Michaud, of Pearl River, N.Y.,
was arrested in connection with a
Jan. 12 incident at his 220 E
Nelson St. apartment in which he
and eight other students were
charged with possession of mari
juana

The delay in arresting Michaud
on the second charge is due to lab

 

Michaud faces cocaine charge

Congressman James Kolbe (R.-
Ariz.), who will present a neutral
congressional perspective.

eUndersecretary of the Army
James R. Ambrose, the second-high-
est ranking official in the Army, who
has experience in the procurement
process not only in his present
capacity, but as an executive with
the defense contractor, Ford Aero-
space and Communication Corp.

Assistant Secretary of the Navy
Everette Pyatt, who will present the
administration's and the Department
of Defense’s perspective.

eCharles C. Thompson, a producer

of the ABC-TV news magazine
20/20," to present the media's
perspective.

ePierre Sprey, a defense consul-
tant in Washington, D.C., who helped
develop the F-16 fighter aircraft,
and, consequently, has experience in
the procurement process,

eWolfgang Reuter, the executive
vice president of a naval architecture
firm, who will represent the private
industry’s perspective.

What the Department of Defense
does with its enormous amount of
money is a controversial topic, Falk
said.

Journalism

Professor Clark R.

See Defense, Page 4

tests that had to be performed,
Sutton said

“Were qualified to look at
marijuana and say, yeah, that’s
marijuana,”’ Sutton said. The pro
cedure with cocaine is different,
he explained. ‘‘Because of the lab
report, he wasn’t charged until a
later date.”’

Michaud and the other students
arrested are scheduled to appear
in Lexington District Court April
22at2p.m

—Jim Strader

 

 
‘OPINION
-The runs

”

 

With the elections of the undergraduate student officers
over, we have a few observations about the system.

First, consider the following numbers. Petitions were sub-
mitted to the Voting Regulations Board by 17 rising seniors
‘on March 17 for various student government positions. When
the vote was counted a week later, 17 individuals made it to
the runoff election,with only one student winning a race di-
rectly. What was the use of the first election? Sure, additional
write-in candidates were added for the less-popular Universi-
ty Council seats. But would it be asking too much of the
students who orchestrated their write-in campaigns to get
the application in a week earlier? Maybe the VRB should not
allow write-in candidates unless they (unlikely) garner a ma-
jority of the votes cast in any given election.

The fact remains, however, that only three candidates
were eliminated for the second round of voting. Somehow,
either the orignal nomination process or the rule of ‘‘gaining
a majority” to win needs to be re-examined.

Second, we agree with the action taken by the VRB and the
Executive Committee in disallowing a revote in the case of
sophomore Tommy McBride. McBride submitted his appli-
cation for sophomore class president as required. His name
appeared on the list of candidates published in the EC
minutes, but when the offical VRB ballot was posted on the
EC door later that week, McBride’s name was missing. But
he didn’t bother to take the time to check to see if his name
was present on the ballot, much less spelled correctly, as the
VRB had advised in the rule-setting meeting. When the error
was discovered, the balloting had already begun.

There is a certain responsibility that goes with every

- elected office. Is it asking too much of a candidate to give him
the responsibility of checking to see his name is listed and
spelled correctly? If any candidate cannot do that, what
should we expect of him when he is elected? In several recent
elections, a candidate has complained about the way his

‘name has appeared on the ballot. This time there were 84

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

 
 
 

‘Please stay on your own blanket during the exam period. Hackey-
sack and frisbee toss will resume at 5 p.m. ...any questions?”

 

 

around with a girl when you know

Roadtrip: Tradition not left by wayside

“Cute,’’ said Susie Sweetbriar,

_ original candidates, and each one spells his name differently.
. The VRB has come up with the best solution possible by post-
ing a sample ballot and letting the candidate approve it.
‘McBride gave up his right to complain by not checking the

ballot.
“ The recent elections were uneventful, for the most part.
“ Much of the credit for the smooth voting goes to the VRB and
-‘its co-chairmen, seniors Lou Mondello and John Scannapie-

co. In the future, however, we hope that a few changes in the

electoral process will make future elections even better.

Nipped in the bud

Last week, I had my worst fears confirmed. I have lost all
faith (and that was not much) in the earnest preachings of
faculty and administration members to ‘‘keep an open mind”’
in all matters.

-.. Isuppose this backsliding results from a private conversa-

SSeS
MY VIEW

By Lisabeth Fowler

Life as a Playboy air freshener in a
BMW isn’t always fun, but you do
overhear some interesting conversa-
tions. Like last Saturday, when eight
students armed with beer and picnic
supplies headed for the parkway. It
was apparent that they were a close
group.

“Isn’t it weird that out of four
couples, only one of us is a W&L guy
with a W&L girl?” asked Cathy Co-
ed, as they piled in. ‘‘Perhaps the T-
shirts about ‘The beginning of an er-
ror’ were right when they said ‘The
roadtrip continues.’ ’’

“Don’t be silly,’ replied Bob E.
W&L, putting his arms around his
girlfriend, Mary C. W&L. “Why go
out for hamburger when there’s
steak at home?”’

“but not entirely accurate.”

“I’m serious guys,” Cathy said.
“Doesn't it seem funny to you that in
a coed school, there is so much im-
porting of dates? And I don’t mean
just the guys either. You'd be sur-
prised how many freshman girls ac-
tually prefer to date from VMI,
Hampden-Sydney and U.Va.”

“Well,” said George General,
Susie’s date. ‘‘As a W&L man, I'd
kind of feel like I was taking advan-
tage of the newly coed situation by
dating a W&L girl. Besides, the way
it is now, I can date one at the Briar,
one at Hollins, and one at Randy Mac
with no one the wiser. Dating a girl
on campus would make playing the
field impossible.”’

“It seems to me to be more a mat-
ter of responsibility,” said Bob, ‘I
found I had to be more careful who I
found myself..uh...ahem..‘talking’ to
after 1 a.m. at the frat parties. It
makes you think twice about fooling

you have to face her Monday morn-
ing in your psych class. And if you’re
going out with a girls’ school girl and
you break up, you almost never have
to see her again, whereas if she’s on
campus...’

“*You know what really bugs me?”’
interrupted Martha, who’s dating Sid
D. Squid. ‘‘The guys think it’s okay
for them to roadtrip, but they have a
fit when they find out I’m going out
with Sid.”

‘‘Well, geez!’’ said Bob. ‘There are
12 guys to one girl already! What
possible reasons could you have for
dating foreigners?”

“The same reasons you just men-
tioned — it works both ways, you
know. And with the girls’ school girls
still very much a part of the social
life at W&L, the female/male ratio is,
really about 4 to1.”’

“Tt seems to me,’’ said George,
“that the roadtrips will always con-

At the same time, having your
squeeze close at hand has its advan-
tages, and I fully expect to see an in-
creasing number of W&L couples
each year.”

“But what about friendships?’’ in-
jected Mary. ‘“‘The guys are so used
to road chicks pursuing them that
they have trouble dealing with
women as friends. The minute you
start being friendly to one, he
assumes it’s because you want to
date him. If you pursue friendships
with too many guys here, you get a
reputation for looking for an ‘“‘“MRS”’
degree and all the guys mysteriously
disappear. It’s silly.”

“Now I’m confused.” said Bob.
“Do you want brothers or boy-
friends?”

“Both!” answered Mary. ‘Just
because we talk to you doesn’t mean
we want to-date you. At the same
time, when the right guy comes
along, we’d hate to see our W&L

“ction I had with a certain dean last Friday. I visited the dean
“hoping to inquire how and why a certain decision had been
“made. As a student, I was only following the direction of

tinue — for both sexes — that’s okay. status stop him from asking us out.”

“Many professors: don’t accept facts out of hand. Find out

~how people arrived at that decision.

> That’s what I tried to do. But this dean — who ironically, on
Good Friday, seemed to be bearing a heavy cross or at least a
_ big chip on his shoulders — told me that students seem to be
- asking too many questions these days. Students, he said, suf-
- fer from an ‘‘egoism”’ in believing that all decisions should be
: made ina “fraternity circle’’ on the Colonnade. (I never ask-
‘ed that.) All that he sees his job as is an attempt to facilitate
. the education process in the classroom. That is his only con-

“gern.

“! That was not so obvious in our conversation. Despite my
being a student, and thus favoring the student cause in part, I
“still wonder whether his priorities are straight. As I under-
“stand his remarks, students ought just to accept every deci-

“sion made by the administration without argument.

I reject that thought, just as I reject the notion that
students ought to make every decision on this campus. I also
‘decry the growing ‘‘egoism”’ of administrators like this dean
who see their decisions as somehow above reproach. Just
because they are administrators doesn’t make them experts
in everything they do. Sure, deans get critized often; I enjoy
participating in it. But the sheer frequency of this examina-
tion of every decision by people (students) affected by them
is not sufficient reason to reject every inquiry. One way of
promoting better communication with students is to allow (at
least) us to question how any decision is made.

Chatting with a phobia footlocker friend

 

MY VIEW
By Steven Pockrass

 

“T meant to do that!”
—Pee Wee Herman

No escape was available when the
giant Hippo-critter joined me for a
few hard ones at the old milk bar last
week. I cowered in the corner, trying
to avoid the bad breath emanating
from this big-footed, ugly, pear-
shaped beast’s huge, scooplike
mouth.

A friend from my footlocker of
phobias, the Hippo-critter is harder
to get rid of than a shadow on a sunny
day. To put it another way, Bink-
ley could wipe out the creatures
from his closet of anxieties with a
couple of aspirin, I would need a
handful of those super-charged
Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules to
eliminate the Hippo-critter.

“Say, I was just wondering,”’ it
said to me, “whether you think
anyone ever takes that newspaper
column of yours seriously?”

compared with quiet conversations
with friends. Now that one seemed
pretty well received. And as best I
can tell, a lot less beer was spilled
and a lot fewer drunks attended this
year’s Fancy Dress Ball.”

“Oh really,”’ it said. ‘I heard that
it might’ve done you some good to
have re-read your own column FD
weekend.”’

. “Now wait a second. I was just
planning on drinking these milks
— chocolate milks, it being a special
occasion — over at the frat house
before dinner, and somebody SPIK-
ED all the milk. Gosh, it must’ve
been grain, because I couldn’t even
taste it.”

The Hippo-critter wrote the letters

“HV” on a napkin and pushed it
across the table.

“Don’t believe me, huh? All right,
well then I’m going to let you in ona
secret. There’s a little-known codicil
in the reporting field known as the
double-secret, undercover investiga-
tion. It is used only in cases of utmost
secrecy, where life and property

two years here, but this year I needed
to test my ‘quiet evening’ hypothesis
by experiencing some wild drunken-
ness. And actually, I ended up getting
a bit of both on FD Friday.”

“But did you tell your date that at-
tending the FD Ball was not part of
your plans because of the investiga-
tion?”

“T couldn’t. It was double-secret.”’
“‘Well, what about the tickets, the

new shirt, tie, cuff links and studs?”
“That was part of the act.”

‘‘And the ‘10 cents a dance’ button
on your tux?”’
“That was a gift.”

“And your asking a number of
ladies to save you dances?”

“That was a mistake.”

‘And how did your date feel about
it?”

“She was very understanding, a lot
better about it than I would've been. I

guess that was a big part of the irony ~

of it, because she liked my last FD
column so much.”’

“That is a bit humorous,” said the
Hippo-critter, ‘‘but not nearly as fun-

and bright at the journalism school,”’
I said. ‘‘And what’s the big deal if my
basketball loyalties are to the Mid-
west?”

“Only about 50 bucks,” said the
Hippo-critter. “But I must say, at
least you’re able to keep up a sense of
humor about all this.”

“Perhaps that is one lesson that
can be learned,”’ I said, ‘‘because it
eases a lot of the pain and pressure
when you can laugh at your adver-
sities — the many times you've fallen
asleep in small seminar classes, the
time you trashed your room ina fit of
anger or the time you were dumped
by the one girl who ‘really meant
something’ in your life. You've got to
be able to joke about that stuff. After
all, no matter where you go, there
you are.

“The way I look at it is that I may
be a pretty serious kind of guy, but if
I’ve got to live with myself for the
rest of my life — and that looks pretty
certain — I’d better be able to laugh
at myself before I start laughing at
others. It’s just like the comedian

I believe it is the administrators who need a lesson in open-
mindedness. In a community where student-faculty commu-
nication is central to the philosophy of education, to preclude
any part of that communication process is to nip education in
the bud. Surely that is not the objective of the administration.

 

  
 

—NRP
2 2
Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
16h sa) cid sch oy cibedes beeebedintielas Gast Mike Allen
eS ne oe rr rrr erie Tener rrr rT here re Paul Foutch

Jim Strader
eerie benti a hedbednns CiViberess eligi Reade Williams
ig his ice lbesieneccekeccvdeveutoebUbacssadesenasess Mike Stachura
PI Fie ccc cnreVbarccecccecdcccveaseccceccscerss+scsbtaua; Jason Lisi
Photography Editor... «+ +ee+ Steve Sadler
Chief Copy Editer ....... ..... Matt Horridge
I os 000) 0 eb cece ean ecebiccsaieess ie ced Marshali Boswell
ek ke pd Ee David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
er ree er Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor. ...............c0cceeceececeeeees sss Marie Kothman
RE ET CET eee eTPeeREh ee TT ee Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
MU ec ad 6s cg Cede Ne dee 660th cbieiei Heres bes Jeff Kimbell
a6 v5 iss 0 cect cdccccnccccctseenessetcsceesrses Hank Greenberg
PIII, boss osd csc decedecececcoeevecscece John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley

5 5a usc o0b0 6 6.00 80:0.6s oeeeee Kevessetisetescsasans Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee, The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

‘morpnwolbrevo’ column that de-em-
phasized FD drunkeness, especially

 

 

 

“Why sure,” I said. “Take the

must be risked for the general good.
“I was pretty sober at FD my first

LETTERS

ny as your NCAA picks.”
“Just trying to keep things light

Harpo Marx used to say:

oe ,

Reader decries Patterson’s sneering remarks

To the editors:

I must take exception to Nelson Patterson's
commentary supporting military aid to the con-
tras, feeling Patterson is guilty of both painting
the world in unrealistic black-and-white dicho-
tomies and mudslinging akin to that of the late
Senator Joseph McCarthy.

“There are really two scenarios available...’’
Patterson states, giving the contras millions of
dollars now, or allowing the contras to fall. This
is very simplistic, failing to consider the ability
of the contras to survive on their own.

Most insightfully, I think Patterson has over-
looked another, even more frightening possibil-
ity: direct American intervention (likely
through the use of combat troops). This, indeed,
is another very real scenario, and there are
doubtless others, so it is plain that there are far
more than Patterson’s ‘‘two scenarios.”
Although decrying an either/or choice is handy
for red-baiting, it is not realistic.

I am offended by Patterson’s holier-than-thou
pronouncement that one is either a liberal (and, I
suspect, a closet commie sympathizer) or an

American. That he needs to use this type of argu-
ment (?) in his second paragraph only highlights
the weakness (or absence) of his case. Indeed,
Patterson never really presents a case for aid,
preferring to use tired Reaganisms to justify our
opposition to the Sandinistas. ‘‘Nicaragua under
the Sandinistas poses a threat to every country in
Latin America,” Patterson says, apparently
wishing to overlook American adventurism in
Latin America spanning nearly a century.

There are a number of valid reasons for oppos-
ing aid to the contras. They have been accused of
forced conscription, atrocities and massacres.
There are concerns about the past records of
some contra leaders and possible links to the old
Somoza regime. Should the United States, as the
“Shining City on the Hill,’’ support such ac-
tivities and people?

However, the all-too-frequently overlooked,
but most important, question is what will best
benefit the Nicaraguan population: a prolonged,
devilitating civil war waged by an increasingly
entrenched regime, or peaceful conditions allow-
ing political and economic stabilization? Admit-

tedly, the Sandinistas are nui an ideal govess-
ment, but they have made some improvements,
and I believe the United States would be able to
better help the people by steering (bribing?) the
Sandinistas than destabilizing them with the in-
tention of installing another suspect regime.

At the heart of the Nicaraguan controversy is a
form of myopic commie-phobia. The U.S. has a
knee-jerk opposition to any government that
smacks of Marxism or communism, but lends
blind support to equally tyrannical ‘“‘anti-com-
munist”’ regimes.

Mr. Patterson’s attack upon the “liberal
knaves’’ fails to present any real argument for
support of the contras (except perhaps for a veil-
ed appeal to the domino principle — if the alleged
red menace is allowed to prosper in Nicaragua it
will certainly spread to Harlingen, Texas) and is
guilty of unnecessary character attacks. (I won’t
even comment upon his discussion of ‘‘sniveling
professors spewing forth leftist dogma.’’) I hope
Mr. Patterson is able to do better in the future.

David Johnston
Class of 1986

 

 
 

 

 

ae

ee

._NEWS

a ‘hand’ for
the hungry

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

 

The mayors of both Lexington and
Buena Vista have issued a proclama-
tion declaring May 4, ‘Hands Across
Rockbridge” Day.

This county-wide fund-raiser is
patterned after the national event
called ‘‘Hands Across America” and
is designed to combat hunger in
Rockbridge County. The state of Vir-
ginia, the Shenandoah Valley, and
Rockbridge County were left out of
the national plans made by USA for
Africa. As Martha Doss, one of the
coordinators of the Virgnia event ex-
plained, ‘‘There are people in Vir-
ginia who are hungry as well; we
want to help.”’

The event will require at least 9,000
people to join hands in order to create
a human link extending from the
flagpole at the county courthouse in
Lexington, past the Lexington City
Hall, out Route 60 to the flagpole at
the municipal building in Buena
Vista.

Doss pointed out that the number of
people needed to make the project a
success is not unreasonable as it only
accounts for 1/3 of the county’s
population.

Participants in the projects will be
required to donate $1 to the cause. All
of the money will go directly to the
Rockbridge Area Relief Association,
which assists the hungry throughout
the county.

Various organizations will con-
tribute their services to the event.
Blue Bird bus company and the Lex-
ington Lions Club will both help
alleviate some of the transportation
problems expected by contributing
buses and their driving services.
Several other organizations will
donate funds to. the event.

In order to make the day a com-
plete success, Doss said, people in
and around the Rockbridge area
must donate time and efforts. Doss
extended an enthusiastic invitation to
the Washington and Lee community
to participate in the event. She said,

The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

 

New pavilion?

Workmen pause during construction of a stone stair-
way that will lead into the Hopkins Green park at the cor-
ner of Nelson and Jefferson streets. The stairway, being
built by stone mason Alvis Reynolds, is part of the first
stage of the development of the park, which will eventual-
ly include a stone wall, benches and a small pavilion, La-
mar J.R. Cecil Jr., a trustee of the Historic Lexington
Foundation, which is overseeing the project, said this

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

first stage of the construction is expected to be completed
in May, when the entrance and a fence will be finished.
The next step involves landscaping the park and the final
phase is the construction of the pavilion, which Cecil said
will be modeled on the architecture of the Hopkins house
(right). Hopkins Green is the only land in Lexington that
has remained in the same family since being purchased
from the original town trustees.

Bookstore selling souvenir sticker

 

 

 

By DUDLEY LEE
Staff Reporter

 

Would you buy a bumpersticker for
a bar that no longer exists?
Well, if you’ve ever been to the

 

 

THE

COCKPIT

WASHINGTON & LEE
UNIVERSITY

 

 

Cockpit — the tavern in the Student
Center now called the General Head-
quarters — and would like a souvenir

The outdated Cockpit bumper sticker on sale in the bookstore

has been sold over the year.

“‘We need student involvement. W&L

+ represents a major part of Lexington

and the students participation will
definitely ensure the successful out-

* come of the fund-raiser.”

‘Junior reps look to

’

By MATT HORRIDGE
' Staff Reporter

i

 

Brad Root, the sophomore Ex-
* ecutive Committee representative
; Tre-elected last Thursday, said this

week that he is looking forward to
* serving again on the committee next
+ year.

Root received 134 votes in last
Thursday’s runoff elections, after
what he called an extensive cam-
paign.

He said he ‘‘made an effort to con-
. front every member of the sopho-
more class’’ by going to the Woods
Creek Apartments and fraternities
- and by passing out handbills on cam-
pus.

Next year’s EC will be ‘‘extremely
strong,’’ Root said, because many of
this year’s members will return to
the committee next fall.

-

 

| Law scholar to present lecture on Soviet human rights

to remember it by, you’re in. luck.
Bumperstickers bearing the name
and insignia of the Cockpit are
available in the Washington and Lee
Bookstore for 50 cents.

Root plans to ‘re-educate’ faculty

Root said he would like to hold a
forum on the Honor System after the
Liberty Hall orientation session ‘‘to
further clarify the guidelines of the
Honor System.”

To ‘‘re-educate some of the faculty
on the Honor System”’ is another of
Root’s goals for next year. He said
professors might not keep up with
White Book revisions, and some have
not been formally introduced to the
Honor System.

He would also like to have sessions
at the Law School similar to the one
freshmen have at Liberty Hall to
make law students more aware of the
importance of the Honor System at
Washington and Lee.

Root is a ‘‘tentative’’ economics
major from Erie, Pa. He is a mem-
ber of Beta Theta Pi fraternity and

When the bar changed names this
fall, the bookstore had a surplus of
more than 1,000 stickers from last
year. The renaming of the tavern
hasn't stopped students from buying
the stickers. About half of the supply

No stickers have been printed up
for the GHQ, according to Debbie
Conner, a bookstore employee,
because there hasn’t been any stu-
dent interest in them.

called

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

 

 

The word from Michael A. Cap-
peto, director of career development
and placement, should relieve many
anxious seniors looking for jobs.

“The job market is the best I have
seen it in the nine years I have been
here at W&L,”’ he said, ‘‘and I have
no doubt that it will remain strong.”

In past years, Cappeto said, about
half of the seniors looking for jobs
have found them by graduation. This
number excludes those students who
wish to go on to graduate school or
travel before finding a job.

This year, it looks as if seniors will
do even better, Cappeto said. He esti-
mates that between 65-70 percent of
the senior class will have jobs by
June.

“It should be a banner year,’’ he
said.

The search for jobs has gone very
well this year, some students said,
and they give much of the credit to
the placement office. A variety of
tasks are performed by Cappeto and
his staff. Among these duties are the
organization of a resume-writing
clinic, job hunts, job interviews and,
most importantly, helping students
decide what they want to do.

Cappeto said that setting a goal is
the most important thing a student
initiating a job hunt should do. “If
you do not know what you are looking
for, it makes it very difficult for us to
find you a job,” he said.

The placement office also
publishes a book containing the
resumes of any students who wish to
have credentials published. The book
is then sent to many businesses that
do not come to Washington and Lee to
interview students.

Perhaps the most vital service the
placement office provides to job
seekers is the arranging of on-
campus interviews with companies
that are looking to hire. Interviews,

strengthen EC’s image, role

 

BRAD ROOT

the Student Recruitment Committee.
He said he enjoys “‘squash and rac-
quetball’”’ and outdoor activities.

Wood regains committee post

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Brandt Wood, elected Thursday as
a junior Executive Committee repre-
sentative, said this week that not be-
ing on the current EC will help him in
his job because ‘I’ve seen it from
both sides now.”’

Wood, who served on the EC during
his freshman year, beat sophomore
representative Pat Schaefer in last
week’s run-off by a six-vote margin.
The other current sophomore repre-
sentative, Brad Root, kept his seat by
finishing first in the run-off.

Wood said he was not required to
do muck as a freshman representa-
tive but added that he gained inval-
uable experience by observing the
older EC members.

Wood said he thought about regain-
ing his seat all year and, after talking

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Accompanied by Assistant Professor of History J.

Hodges is one of 12 professors in the nation selected to

with several members of the EC,
decided to enter the election.

“T didn’t campaign as hard as I did
my freshman year,” he said. He at-
tributed his victory to knowing peo-
ple in all the fraternities and ‘‘shak-
ing a lot of hands.”’

Wood said he is looking forward to
serving on next year’s committee
because he thinks there will be a feel-
ing of camaraderie among the mem-
bers.

“Strengthening the EC’s image
and trust”’ is a goal Wood has for next
year. He said he plans to use his
friends in many fraternities to poll
student opinion on issues brought
before the EC.

Wood is an administration major
from New Orleans He is a member of
the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and

strong

though not always successful, give
students the opportunity to become
familiar with the interview process,
so that even if a student does not get a
job from a particular interview, the
experience will help prepare him for
future encounters with recruiters.

Cappeto said that W&L has a very
broad recruitment base that ‘is
helpful in attracting companies to
Lexington.

Senior Jeff Sapp said, ‘‘I think the
placement office did a very good job
of arranging to have companies
come to town and interview stu-
dents.’

 

Resim

THE CLASS

1986

ry

Wasnincton ano Ler University

Lexinctos, Va. 24450

 

 

 

The Resume Book

With the class of 1986 approaching
graduation, Cappeto had some ad-
vice for those who will be looking for
a job next year. ‘Seniors need to get
started early,” Cappeto said. ‘‘If you
get started early, you will probably
do better and have a definite advan-
tage over the late starters.”

Cappeto said that when seniors
come back in the fall there are a lot of
distractions, and this keeps many
students from getting a good start.

“If I was a job-seeker, I would do
everything: write resumes, go on in-
terviews, go to the workshops — the
whole deal,” Cappeto said. -

“And I would start as early -as
possible,”’ he added. »

of honor

 

BRANDT WOOD

the track team. He said he enjoys
biking, fishing and “enjoying the
country a whole lot.”

 

Staff Reports

 

Christopher Osakwe, scholar-in-residence at
Washington and Lee’s Frances Lewis Law Center, will
present a lecture on ‘The Theories and Realities of
Modern Soviet Human Rights Law.”

The lecture, which is open to the public, will be Mon-
day, at 4 p.m. in Room C of the Lewis Law Center.

In his lecture, Osakwe will examine the legal and
philosophical framework of some recent Soviet human
rights cases such as those of Andrei Sakharov, Anatoly
Scharansky and Alexander Solzhenitsyn.

While in residence at W&L this semester, Osakwe is
working on a book that will provide a_ historical,
philosophical and methodological analysis of modern
Soviet law.

He studied at the Moscow State University School of
Law from 1962 to 1970, receiving his doctorate. He
received his law degree from the Univeristy of Illionois
College of Law in 1974.

The Frances Lewis Law Center was established at
W&L to focus on developing knowledge ‘‘at the frontiers
of the law.’’ The center also supports the research of
lawyers and judges and holds major colloquia and
seminars on various topics.

Students deliver history papers

Several Washington and Lee students and graduates
recently delivered papers at regional meetings of Latin
American scholars.

David Parker, three students attended the annual con-
vention of the Southwestern Council on Latin American
Studies held March 13-15 in Fort Worth, Texas. David
Kelly, a December 1985 graduate, spoke there on ‘‘Self-
Serving Motives in Sixteenth-Century Biography.”’
Junior Scott Alford delivered a paper on ‘‘Ethnocen-
trism in European Accounts of the New World,” and
classmate Charles Elmer presented a paper on ‘‘Picon-
Salas’ ‘Indian Legacy’ Reconsidered.”’

Senior David Moose spoke on ‘Nicaraguan
Regionalism in National Politics, 1921-1934,” and junior
Matthew Lewis delevered a paper on ‘Honduran
Political Culture, 1932-1954.” In addition, David Hanna,
a 1985 graduate, gave a paper entitled ‘Constitutional
Devotion and Abandonment: The Rise and Fall of Ven-
ustiano Carranza, 1913-1920.”

Parker and two students also attended the annual
meeting of the Middle Atlantic Council of Latin
American Studies March 21-22 in Fairfax, where senior
Gerald Shepherd spoke on ‘Political Methods, Issues
and Forces in Peru, 1890-1920.’’ John Paul Vita, a 1984
graduate and first-year law student, gave a paper on
‘Guatemalan Politics, 1951-1954.”’

Hodges awarded ethics fellowship

Religion Professor Louis W. Hodges, director of the
Society and the Professions program in applied ethics,
has been awarded a fellowship from the Poynter In-
stitute for Media Studies iri St. Petersburg, Fla.

receive the 1986 Fellowships for Excellence in the
Teaching of Journalism Ethics. He will attend a four-
day seminar on ethics and teaching at the Poynter In-
situtue in May.

The fellowships are sponsored by the education com-
mittees of the American Society of Newspaper Editors,
the Associated Press Managing Editors and the Nation-
al Conference of Editorial Writers. They are awarded to
professors who demonstrate devotion to students, peda-
gogical ability, and upholding of journalism values

A graduate of Millsaps College and Duke University,

Hodges joined the faculty in 1960.

Rockbridge Cancer Run slated

The Rockbridge Cancer Run 86, ‘‘A Run with George
Cunningham,”’ features a new course that will provide a
challenge for both recreational and dedicated runners

Portions of the course used in past years were washed
away by the November flood, so George Cunningham,
one of the area's most dedicated runners despite his
battle with cancer, has been out scouting new routes for
the April 27 race.

Both the five-kilometer and the 10-kilometer races
will start at the field near the Washington and Lee Law
School. Runners will go through the parking lot to the
Wood's Creek trail and then follow the trail to the Stop
In near the Maury River. At that point the race splits

The 5K runners will take a right and head back on
Main Street toward downtown. The 10K runners will

 

take a left at the Stop-In, cross the Maury River, and
then take a left on state road 631 at East Lexington. The
10K course continues out 631 to Furr’s Mill, turns
around at that point, and follows the same route back to
the Stop-In.

From the Stop-In, the 5K and 10K courses follows the
same route to the finish line at Wilson Field. The course
follows Main Street to Letcher Avenue. Runners will
take a right on Letcher Avenue, go up around the Vir-
ginia Military Institute parade ground, down Superin-
tendent’s Hill, up Anderson Drive and then back on to
the trail to Wilson Field.

For more information about the race, including maps
and applications, contact Patti Ryan-Mandel, 628 Stone-
wall St., Lexington, VA 24450, 463-9432; or Jim Dittrick,
502 Lime Kiln Rd., Lexington, Va. 24450, 463-3797.

Senior wins science Fulbright

Shawn Harvey, a senior from Georgetown, S.C., has
received a Fulbright grant to study for a year in West
Germany. The grant includes a two-month language
course at the Goethe Institute, and a year of study and
research at the Institute for Neurobiology at Gulach.

A chemistry major, Harvey is a member of Alpha Ep-
silon Delta professional fraternity for premedical
students and Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He
was elected to Phi Eta Sigma, the freshman honor
society, and to Phi Beta Kappa, and has consistently
been named to the honor roll. He is the recipient of The
Henry Ruffner Scholarship for academic excellence.

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

Break plans range from canoein’ to Cornell

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN

Staff Reporter break

 

Which upcoming event is foremost
in your plans: a week of exams or a
week of spring break?

Many W&L students seem more ob-
sessed with tanning than tangents,
especially with the balmy weather
we've been having.

“I wish it would just rain,” said
freshman Liz Smith. ‘“‘That way I
wouldn’t be tempted to lay out and
would get some studying done.”

Mock constitutional convention
in planning for next spring

It will be open to all students, and
faculty members would serve as ad-

 

By DANIEL BUNCH

Staff Reporter visers.

 

If you don’t think you can wait for
the next mock political convention,
don’t worry. A mock constitutional
convention is being planned for the
spring of 1987, the bicentennial of the
U.S. Constitution.

History Professor Robert W.
McAbren is chairman of a committee
formed by University President John
D. Wilson to study possible ways to
celebrate the Constitution’s bicenten-
nial.

McAhren said the mock constitu-
tional convention will be ‘‘very much
like the mock political convention.”

Working on the perfect post-exam
tan will occupy many students during

Carol Couch and five other fresh-
men are headed to her home in Pen-
sacola, Fla. Among those is Melissa
Thrasher, who remarked that she
has ‘‘never been this white in my life
I can’t wait to get to the beach.”’

Other students have chosen to in-
vade Fort Lauderdale, including Stu
Sheldon and a few other Sigma Chis
They are not sure yet where they in-
tend to stay.

‘*We'll just see when we get there,”

“It would be something students
would have to participate in on their
own,” McAhren said.

McAhren said he would like to get a
better idea of how much the conven-
tion will cost before any definite
plans are made.

Other plans for the bicentennial in-
clude having special speakers at the
Founder’s Day and Phi Beta Kappa
assemblies.

A special course about the Con-
stitution will be taught in both the
politics and history departments by
professors Delos D. Hughes and J.
Holt Merchant Jr.

he said

Dec. 29

Not all students are going to the
beach. Moose Herring and Christo
pher de Movellan are planning to
canoe on the New River in North
Carolina. AS members of the swim
team, this is their first break since

Both are sure they will enjoy it
‘shaved legs, chlorine tan, and all.”’ it

Speaking of sports, the women’s
tennis team is headed to Hilton Head,
while the lacrosse team will remain
here to practice. The Generals have
two games: at Cornell University on

April 16, and at home against Rad-
ford College on April 19

Other W&L groups venturing off
are the Chorus and Glee Club. They
leave Friday after exams for a con-
cert tour through Switzerland, Ger-
many and Austria. Among those tra-
veling is Lucy Anderson, who said
she is ‘‘very excited to be a part of

Not all students have it so easy,
though. Many diligent pre-meds will
remain here or go home to study for
the Medical College Aptitude Test,
which is to be given April 18.

 

CLASSIFIEDS |

 

GENERAL NOTES

ing for a total cost of $44. A $20
deposit is due upon registration by
Friday, April 11.

 

Sophomores,

463-8583 for details.

Center.

 

juniors,
— pick up your '85 Calyx before
our supply runs out. Calyx office
hours are 3-5 p.m. daily.

Books are available for sale to
non-students at a cost of $30 per
book. Call the Calyx office at

Students interested in partici-
pating in the SAB’s White Water
Rafting trip on West Virginia’s
lower New River may register
with Carol Calkins in the Student

The day-long trip, Sunday, May
4, includes lunch with kegs follow-

SOniOrs Underclassmen who wish to ap-
ply for membership on the Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee but
will not be in Lexington for the
spring term should submit a letter
of application to McClain Stradt-
ner in the Admissions Office.

The National Italian American
Foundation is offering graduate
and undergraduate scholarships
for Italian American students.
The scholarships range in value
from $250 to $2,500, and the ap-
plication deadlines are in May.
For more information, call the
Financial Aid Office at 463-8715.

 

 

 

 

Exams

 

() Continued from Page 1

can tell his parents, with some honesty, ‘‘I spread
out exams so that I could get lots of studying in for
each one. I don’t know what happened. | guess my
hours of studying weren’t enough, but there was
nothing more I could do.”’

Location of study is important. A word of cau-
tion: Avoid the University Library, During exam
week, the place is a livelier night club than any to
be found in Fort Lauderdale. The complaining of
future exam difficulty, the protestations of there
being no way to be prepared for a test, and discus-
sions of spring break make the place condemnable
for studying purposes. Midnight in the library lob-
by is always a scene as well, when the free coffee

 

and tea are brought out. I wonder what would hap-
pen if someone dumped a big box of Sominex into
the coffee pot?

Also to be avoided is the Co-op. It is always
packed and it is very easy to get caught in there
for hours. Go for the free coffee, but wear blinders
to the coffee and back to the doors. The temptation
to sit down and shoot the bull with friends rather
than study is too great for most immortals.

Advice: Be fairly well prepared, spread out ex-
ams, and study like hell. This is the last chance of
the term to show what you do (or do not) know,
and a good showing on exams always seems to
raise a grade more than proportionally.

One last piece of advice: Watch who’s making
your coffee — exam pressure often leads to prac-
tical jokes and one wouldn’t wish to find himself
asleep the night before an important exam, rather
than riding the big caffeine buzz.

‘Calling all scholars’

If your study strategy for the upcoming exams
calls for late nights spent cramming material in-
to your head, you might want to give Margaret
Letrud a call.

For just 50 cents a call, Letrud will wake you
by telephone so you can be sure to make your 9
a.m. exam. The service isn’t limited to the morn-
ing hours, so you can arrange for a wake-up call
in the afternoon if you like.

“T’ll make sure they’re on their feet, you know,
ask them who they are,” says Letrud. She start-
ed an answering service last February, and re-
cently decided to advertise for student business.

Her number is 463-1777.

—Chris Munsey

aHby, we
s1% LYNCHBURG BICENTENNIAL ani
oss @

2 =s Se

“aut ostestina / of te Ats

Sponsored by First Colony Life Insurance Co. and Greater Lynchburg Chamber of commé
Presents

( i
THE WORLD FAMOUS COUNT BASIE ORCHESTR: ' |

“THE MOST EXPLOSIVE FORCE IN JAZZ"
with

|

THAD JONES 4}

(Director)

 

 

 

SATURDAY,
APRIL 5, 1986
8:00 P.M.

E.C. GLASS AUDITORIUM
Tickets: $10.00

FOR INFORMATION CALL: (804) 528-1986

ADVANCE TICKETS AVAILABLE AT:

Schewel Furniture Co.-all locations

Record Bar-River Ridge

Roberts Piano Co.-The Plaza, Timberlake Rd .
Fret Mill-Roanoke

 

—~

Wg wore, >

 

 

 

 

7 ow MR

4,

billions of our tax dollars are not be-
ing utilized in the fashion they were
intended.”

The discussion will provide insight
into not only the current problems in
the procurement process, Falk pre-

Meanie s Hain
Only Hairstylist to

accept the Colonnade
Card

an

Defense

() Continued from Page 1

.

ee CU
463-9588

te ee

UR Sates)
Old Main Si, Mall
Lexington, VA 24450

 

gy * Marie ¢ Sherry

 

 

 

oo eee

ve

et tin tet sitinate — “— — tt

Nt. tet..

i

 

Mollenhoff said the procurement pro-
cess ‘‘is the main problem facing the
country”’ today.

The problem is not whether to buy
the weapons, but to create a proper
system whereby the Department of
Defense is ensured that it buys the
best weapons at the best price,
Mollenhoff added.

Panelist Kolbe summarized the
problem by saying that most Ameri-
cans are in favor of a strong and
capable national defense, but the pro-
blem arises ‘“‘when billions upon

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROW.

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

110 S. Randolph St.

dicted, but also into any possible im-
provements that can be made.
Mollenhoff predicted that the dis-
cussion would receive wide-spread
support in the W&L community
because weapons procurement is a
topic that concerns almost all areas
of study on campus. /
Dean of the College John W. Elrod, }
Summer Programs Director Robert
P. Fure, the politics and journalism
departments, and the journalism
fraternity Sigma Delta Chi helped
organize the panel, Falk said.

 

 

 

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

 

165 S. Main

SY OPS
oy ieee
‘a “tap GD

As exams draw near,
So does warm weather.
Stay in and study
And your week will go

     
   
   
  
   

hie Florist

better.

 

463-9152

 

 

TIRE CO.

 

 

It’s our 4th Anniversary and we’re celebrating with some of the best tire prices of
the year! Come in and save now thru April 12.

 

   

 

SERVICTAR.

23S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware

 

 

 

463-2242

Read The

   

Classifieds

FOOD
STORES

Open 24 Hours

Full Deli
Chicken

Hot Dogs
BBQ
Hamburgers

Custom made sandwiches
and Salads

Beer
Groceries
EXXON gasoline

 

Come by or call in

800 N. Main St.
463-6899

 

 

 

463-2178

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)

110 S. Jeffersun St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:
Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine®@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

 

 

Swimwear:

Jams
Knee-length OP’s
Birdwell’s

style of W&L belt!

Visa

 

 

MasterCard

 

Make your Spring Break a “Jam”
with the latest in fashion from

Aluin-Bennis

Shorts: Shirts:
Madras Bermuda Izod
Poplin Bermuda Cross Creek

Duckhead Short-sleeve Madras

Don’t forget your white bucks and our most recent arrival, a new

Choice

SINCE 1963

Student Charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
»PORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

Vien roll toward national bid

LEIF UELAND
iff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
annis team continued on a roll this
ast week, winning four straight
latches, including a 5-4 win over
Vashington College, the team that

‘| was considered to be W&L’s last ma-

or obstacle on the road to a bid to the

, ‘ational championships.

The team’s performance over the

f _ week brought the record to 10-5.

The Generals jumped out to a 4-2
| lead against Washington on Friday.
‘Roby Mize, Bobby Matthews and
‘ captain Scott Adams all won their
matches in straight sets. Jack
| Messerly got the fourth W&L point
' with a three-set win at No. 5 singles.
W&L often looks to its doubles
teams to secure the victory. Not so in
Friday’s match. The Generals
almost let the match get away with
their doubles performances. W&L
was downed at both Nos. 1 and 3
doubles. The team victory was cap-
tured with the win at No. 2 doubles
‘ where Mize and Matthews came out
on top, 6-3, 7-6.
Head coach Gary Franke com-
mented on the win: ‘‘It ended up to be
a close match. I was a little disap-

pointed with No. 1 and 3 doubles.”

The Generals competed in a dou-
bleheader on Saturday and came
away with all the prizes. Both match-
es were won by wide margins. W&L
defeated Slippery Rock 9-0 and the
University of the South, 8-1.

W&L’s fourth win of the week came
on Wednesday when the Generals
handled the crosstown Keydets, 9-0.

Mize commented on the past
week’s developments and the team’s
future chances: ‘‘Everything is going
real well now.

Women lose two,

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team finished its 1986 home
schedule this week, losing to
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
and Hollins College. Both matches
were shutouts.

Despite a 2-7 record, head coach
Bill Washburn said he believes that
his team has made much progress
since the season began. He said that
every single team member has im-
proved during the season and added
that the team’s many losses have
forced his players to examine their
weaknesses and make some im-
provements.

On the Saturday after exams, the

“It’s better to start off slow and
finish strong than the reverse. It’s
looking good for [Claremont,]
California [site for the national
championships ],’’ he said.

This coming week, according to
Franke, the team will work to main-
tain their level of play during exams,
and then it’s off to Florida for some
stiff competition, including tradi-
tional powers Flagler (National
Association for Intercollegiate
Athletics) and Rollins (Division IT).

record to 2-7

team will leave Lexington and travel
to Hilton Head, S.C., for a week of
spring training.

“We're going down to try to get in
shape for the ODAC [Old Dominion
Athletic Conference] tournament,”’
said Washburn, referring to the
season’s finale April 25-26 to be held
at Hollins College.

The team will practice at the Hilton
Head Racquet Club and have sched-
uled two matches against local
schools.

The Lady Generals conclude their
regular season at Bridgewater on
April 21.

—David Nave

.ax: ‘three goals away from top 10’

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee
acrossers split two games during the
week, beating VMI yesterday 20-2
and losing to 10th-ranked Towson
State 12-9 on Saturday, and gaining a

, lot of confidence in the meantime.

Yesterday’s win over the Keydets
was highlighted by three Generals
scoring hat tricks: G.T. Corrigan,
Bill Garavente and Peter Smith.
Head coach Dennis Daly sees the win

, as giving the players a boost as they
, head into exams.
* “T think that any time we win it’s
» good,” he said. ‘“‘The team got some
positive reinforcement going into the
* break. It’s good for everyone....Last
+ year, for one reason or another, we
, didn’ thave that.”
The Generals scored 10 times in
’ each half and shut out the Keydets in
_ the second half to give W&L its fourth
| win against three losses. The four
* wins is already more than the team
¢ won in the entire 1985 season.

Daly is understandably pleased.
“We're three goals away from the
top 10,”’ he said. ‘‘Towson is 10th, and
Duke [a one-goal winner over the
Generals in W&L’s first game of the
season] is 15th. We’re that close, and
I think that’s good for the players.”

On Saturday W&L suffered its first
home loss of the season when 11th-
ranked Towson State outlasted the
Generals to win, 12-9.

“T think the game proved to us that
we can play on that [nationally-rank-
ed] level,’ said Daly. ‘It’s unfor-
tunate that we didn’t win it, then we
could have showed everybody we
could play at that level.”

W&L stormed back into the game,
tying it at nine early in the fourth
quarter. The bid for the upset, how-
ever, fell short as Towson scored
three times over the remainder of the
contest to take the 12-9 victory.

“We were outscored in the fourth
quarter, but we had our opportuni-
ties,” said Daly. ‘‘It’s a strange thing
when you still get fast breaks and you
still get opportunitieis to score and
you don’t ...I’m not terribly upset, it

just would have been nice if we had
scored.”’

Daly continued, “I think we're
playing some pretty good lacrosse
and the kids are hustling...so I’m
pleased.”

A win over a team as highly ranked
as Towson State, who moved up to
No. 10 in the polls after Saturday’s
win, would have solidified the
Generals’ case for an invitation to the
NCAA Tournament, but Daly doesn’t
want the team to focus strictly on
earning a spot in the tournament.

“I think right now what we've got
to do is just make sure that we just
continue to play our game,”’ said Da-
ly. “‘We can’t get caught up and put
so much hype on the tournament that
we lose sight of what we’re trying to
do first and foremost — have a win-
ning season.”

W&L returns to action April 12 with
an exhibition game against the Vir-
ginia Lacrosse Club in Charlottes-
ville. Theroad trip continues with an
April 16 contest at Cornell.

W&L returns to Lexington for a
home game April 19 with Radford.

 

 

 

BUCK LESLIE

Golfers have
‘great day’

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

 

Two things were hot this week: the
temperature, and the Washington
and Lee men’s golf team. With the
thermometer hovering in the mid-
80s, the Generals easily defeated
Longwood College at the Lexington
Country Club on Monday.

Playing on their familiar home
course, W&L came out smoking. The
Generals scorched the links, posting
a season’s best total of 307. With such
outstanding scoring, W&L had little
difficulty beating Longwood (322)
and Bridgewater (327).

“This was our best round of golf in
three, maybe four years,” said head
coach Buck Leslie. ‘‘We had a great
day.”

Leading the way for W&L were
captain Greg Wheeler (74) and John
Gammage (75). Finishing out the
scoring for the Generals were Mark
Zavatsky (76) and Jeff Kimbell (82).

“It came ata very good time,” said
Leslie. “I think it picked up our
spirits after that disaster in Elon.”

The disaster Leslie was referring
to was last week’s Max Ward Invita-
tional in Burlington, N.C., in which
the Generals could only muster a
22nd-place finish out of 24 teams.

The squad will take a few days off
during the break before returning to
play in the Georgetown Hoya Open in
Fredericksburg on Friday and Satur-
day, April 18 and 19.

DIV. [LACROSSE
Team Record
Maryland (6) 60
Syracuse (3) 6-1
North Carolina st
Johns Hopkins
Navy (1)
Rutgers
Virginia
Md-Baltimore County
Massac!
Towson State
Brown

L
2.
3
4.
tie
6.
i.
8.
%

Army
Harvard
C.W. Post
Duke

 

 

‘W&L ‘9’ mix good with bad, placed fourth in ODAC

 

3 CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

t

 

+

The Washington and Lee baseball

* Generals sandwiched one good after-

» noon between two disappointing ones
in action during the week.

Bouncing back from last Thurs-

+ day’s humiliating 22-6 loss to Lynch-

burg, the team swept a doubleheader

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

,  Wouldn’t it be nice to compete ina
track meet and not have to worry
* about losing an unblemished record?
Well, the Washington and Lee
track and field team didn’t appear to
“mind, earning three second-place

‘

 

 

from Emory and Henry on Saturday.
The Generals closed their pre-exam
schedule with a 10-9 ninth-inning loss
at VMI.

The W&L record now stands at
4-8-1, 4-5 in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference, good for fourth place.

W&L’s triumph over E&H got
started with a strong pitching perfor-
mance from Carter Steuart, who
earned his first win ever as a W&L

finishes and six fourth places at
Saturday’s Battlefield Relays at
Mary Washington in Fredericksburg.

Andy White and Ash Andrews ac-
counted for two of the fourths with
their performances in the 400-meter
hurdles and the 5,000 meters, respec-
tively.

John Carder grabbed one of the
W&L second places with his effort in

hurler. The Generals won the opener,
7-4.

The second half of the twinbill was
a comeback success for W&L. Eric
Acra’s two-run double in the bottom
of the fifth tied the game, and Adam
Yanez’s scamper home after a
throwing error by the E&H catcher
gave W&L the win, 6-5.

The Generals now enter what head
coach Jim Murdock calls ‘the All-
Star break,” a 15-day mid-season

the pole vault while teammate Joe
Fisher placed fourth in the same
event.

Jim McLaughlin was another
second-place finisher with his toss in
the discuss, while Fray McCormick
was second in the high jump, clear-
ing the bar at a personal best of 6-6,

Of the four relays, W&L snatched
fourth places in three events: the 400,

MIDNIGHT SNACKS

Due to the request from students the

' SNACK BAR will remain open later

on these nights with SPECIAL
HOURS for EXAM WEEK

Friday —8 p.m. -12a.m. Yes,
Sunday — 8 p.m. -12a.m.
1 Monday —8 p.m. - 12a.m. All
| Tuesday — 8 p.m. -12a.m. :
| Wednesday — 8 p.m. - 12a.m. 6 Nights.
, Thursday — 8 p.m. -11 p.m
; ‘ c
r Egg McQuicks will be available for 99
I English muffin cheese egg ham or bacon

Along with FREE coffee

The Snack Bar & Supply Store will BE OPEN ON
SATURDAY from 8 a.m.-2 p.m. April 5 for your

convenience.

 
  
   
   
    
   
  
   

hiatus during the exam period.

“It’s a time for us to regroup,”
Murdock said. ‘“‘When we get back,
we face [conference leader] Lynch-
burg again. That will tell a lot.”

The Generals’ problems at the
plate are evident in the conference
statistics where W&L is listed sixth
among the eight conterence teams in
hitting with a .252 team batting
average. The Generals are seventh in
runs scored per game with 4.1.

- Track-men still unbeaten, place well at Battlefield Relays

800 and mile. W&L finished sixth in
the distance medley relay.

W&L head coach Norris Aldridge
said his squad’s performance ‘“‘over-
all’’ was good.

The Generals are off until after ex-
ams when they will participate’ ‘he
Division II, Division III M in
Hampton on April 12.

 

Lady scorned?

..-Hell hath no fury lik a woman

 

scorned.
TIME Here we go again with that ‘‘what
OUT iiss are we going to call the women”

: issue that is drowning more fire than
those of us with saner minds would
care to give it. The fact of, the matter
is that I’m rather hungry and this
whole flap is making me not too
cooperative to those neo-feminists
out there who think the justifiable moniker ‘‘Lady General’”’ is sexist.

The Alan Alda-Phil Donahue in me is saying, ‘‘Hey, why are we
designating our women athletes as distinct? We don’t call the men
‘Gentlemen Generals,’ so let’s not call the women ‘Lady Generals!’ ’

Well, if I may be so bold, sexism is in the eye of the beholder, and I
ain’t behoidin’ any overt sexism in ‘‘Lady Generals.’’ You see, the pro-
blem here is we got all these Gloria Steinem types afraid that we're in-
fringing on somebody’s civil rights if we put some sort of label in front
of their sports team’s name. I see all that nonsense as being just a bit
too excessive.

If there’s fear that by use of the modifier ‘Lady’ we are somehow
exercising a silent male dominance, then I submit that such thought
needs a good deal more scrutiny than whether we're being sexually
discriminatory by calling the women’s tennis team the Lady Generals.
It’s not like we’re saying the only sports women should compete in are
sewing bees and bake-offs. No, not like that at all.

The argument for a generic General is simple. ‘Lady General’’ is
not what they’re officially known as. Well, I'll be darned. Far be it
from a sportswriter to come up with a nickname on her own. Not like
that type of thing has ever happened before. Oh, sure, I'll grant that
the University has left the matter rather set. All official press
releases, when they do use the nickname, refer to women’s teams as
the Generals.

Still, the feminist can argue that there still is no reason to call the
women’s teams something different from what the men’s teams are
called. Well, imagine being on the University of Texas women’s
basketball team and being known as the Longhorns. Women can’t be
longhorns. They don’t have horns, if you know what I mean. Now,
while Lady Longhorns isn’t all that great an improvement, the distinc-
tion is a necessary one, and one that doesn’t make me think of
discrimination.

The General, as we have seen over the years, is a curious bird. The
truth of the matter is that no woman has ever reached the rank that
the mythical Washington and Lee General has (five-star, battle
leader). Women cannot earn that rank, and, on top of that, have never
been placed in a position of authority on the battlefield. In fact, they
cannot even serve in combat duty. The point here is that to call the
women’s teams Generals is to call them glorified office clerks or head
nurses. Come again? Well, let’s face it, there is no such thing as a
female, sword-waving General so the prefix ‘‘Lady’’ needs to be added
for clarity’s sake. Otherwise, when we call our women’s teams ‘‘the
Generals’’ we are calling them men, and I’ll stick my neck out and say
that our women’s teams being known as “Lady Generals” is a mite
more palatable than their being known as men. In addition, when
I think of the mascot for a fine athletic team, I do not think of a pencil-
pusher, which is what most female generals end up becoming anyway.

As I see it, the options are two: go with Lady Generals or get rid of
the name General entirely. That way there will be no sexual
discrimination suits and less aggravation for those of us who know bet-
ter.

In the meantime, if anybody is still bothered about this serious issue,
I ask them to focus their energies to the vigorous support of the hard-
working female — and male — athletes at W&L. To paraphrase a
famous person, ‘‘An athlete is an athlete is an athlete (no matter what
nickname you give her)....”’

....Barely making it down the Colonnade, men’s tennis team is
movin’ and groovin’ through the first third of its season and head
coach Gary Franke says the team hasn’t really started to peak yet.
You like to hear that...No question Saturday’s lax loss to Towson was
rather large, but no reason to let it cloud your thoughts for the rest of
the way. Let’s take the good things, dispense with the bad, and get a
bunch more W’s...A tip of the cap baseball’s way for grabbing a couple
of wins over the weekend...

....Speaking for the diamond game, I can’t hold off any longer on my
major league guesses: AL East: New York, AL West: Oakland, NL
East: Chicago, NL West: Cincinnati...If they have the NBA playoffs
this year, it will be a grand waste of time, more so than usual. When
the time comes, it will be Boston over L.A. in five....

...Finally, not to downplay Louisville’s win, but it troubles me when
young people enrolled in a university regularly use the phrase ‘“‘We
was,” as Pervis Ellison did in interviews after the game Monday
night. Probably just nerves, right coach?......

 

 

= By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nair ates

 

 

 

 

18 Va. locations th rt you, including
College Square Shopping Center (next to Kroger’s)
Rt. 11 North
Lexington, Va.
463-160

 

 

 

 

 

1/2 price sale

Charcoal

Busy Baker Snack Crackers

Vintage Seltzer
Potato Chips
Cricket Lighters

a ee $2.65
Cg Ee $4.79

 

 

 
-BACK PAGE

 

Stones dig up ‘dirty’ roots

 

By RICK PIERCE
Music Critic

 

With the recent release of their 20th
studio album, ‘‘Dirty Work,” and a
possible tour to foliow, the Stones are
trying to regain the momentum they
lost five years ago

Since 1981's ‘Tattoo You,’’ the
Stones have released a live album
from their last U.S. tour titled ‘Still

Life,’ and a studio LP, ‘Under-
cover.’ Neither album sold very well
and only one single (‘‘Undercover of
the Night’’) has reached the Top Ten
since ‘Start Me Up.”’

For that reason the Glimmer
Twins ‘vocalist Mick Jagger and
guitarist Keith Richards) have gone
back to the basics, literally. Richards
said ina recent interview that ‘Dirty
Work” is an attempt ‘‘to get back to
our roots.”’

Richards said the influences they
felt in the early years by artists like
Muddy Waters, Chuck Berry and EI-
more James come out again on ‘‘Dir-
ty Work.”’ The Stones’ first single off
the new LP, ‘‘Harlem Shuffle,” is a
cover of a 1963 classic

Renowned blues artist Bobby Wo-
mack plays harmonica on ‘‘Had It

With You.’’ One may remember Wo-

mack for originally composing ‘It’s
All Over Now,”’ a song that was the
first Stones Top Ten hit in 1964
Former Led Zeppelin guitarist Jim-
my Page, now with The Firm, plays
guitar on ‘‘One Hit to the Body.”

A new cha’ * ecoo4 is the
advent of Ron Wood as a songwriter
along with the Glimmer Twins. Wood
wrote the music on four cuts, the
most writing he has done for a Stones
album

A star-studded cast and a return to
what made the Stones great still do
not mean the album will sell. Jag-
ger’s vocals are deteriorating with
each successive album. His voice is
so deep he can no longer hit the high
notes.

Depending on the success of ‘‘Har-
lem Shuffle’’ (currently No. 26 on the
charts), the Stones will release two
more singles. ‘‘Winning Ugly’’ may
succeed, but “One Hit to the Body”’
will be hard pressed to reach the Top
40.

Enough about the technical aspects
of the album. You want to know if you
should buy the record. The Stones
pull no punches on this record. This is
hard-core blues rock. If your tastes
tend to be pop-oriented, stay away,
but if you want to get down and dirty,
add ‘‘Dirty Work”’ to your collection.

NOW

BEING

ACCEPTED

The Stones on the cover of their new album, “Dirty Work”’

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, April 3
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILM: ‘Fahrenheit 451.’ Room 327, Commerce
School.

Friday, April 4
6:30 p.m. — W&L Newcomers Potluck Supper and Sing-a-long. Alumni
House.
9p.m.— BAND: ‘‘Country Grass Express.’’ GHQ. Cover charge $1.

Saturday, April 5
Undergraduate examinations begin.
3 p.m. — FAIR CONCERT: Rockbridge Chorus with Booker T.
Howard Choir. Adults $3, students and children $1. Lee Chapel.

Monday, April 7
4 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘‘The Theories and Realities of Modern Soviet
Human Rights Law.” Professor Christopher Osakwe, Frances Lewis
Scholar in Residence. Room C, Lewis Law Center. ’

Friday, April 11
Undergraduate examinations end.

Monday, April 21
Undergraduate classes resume.
4 p.m. — PSYCHOLOGY LECTURE: ‘‘Human-Computer Interaction
in Manned Space Flight.’ Michael J. Burns. Room 318, Tucker Hall.
7 p.m. — “WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILMS” SERIES: “‘Twenty-
Four Eyes.’ Room 327, Commerce School.

Tuesday, April 22
5 p.m. — BIOLOGY SEMINAR: “Some Aspects of the Ecology of the
Freshwater Clam, Nephronaias Penpisquensis."’ Dr. Maria Elena
Amidor. Room 305, Parmly Hall.
7 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Job-hunting Techniques. University Center.

 

 

 

editors and business managers of
the student publications:

for

Political Review: editor
Ariel: editor

Ring-tum Phi: editor and business manager
Calyx: editor and business manager

Applications are due in Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center by
noon, Friday, April 25. Applicants
should be available for interviews Sun-
day and Monday, April 27 and 28.

 

 

 

 

== a a a ee <a

 

 

NEED
A CAR?

Students under 21
Must Have

prior Insurance
Approval

RFD 7, Box 149,

    
 

LiizuLl
LUG TOL

Lr

Rt. 60 East

  
 

703-463-1670

Emergency
703-377-6331

   

Brian and Doris
Fredricksen

Lexington, Virginia 24450

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Mall

Tried our homemade chicken salad?
It’s Great! !

Small $1.35 Large $2.05

To Go: 463-2595
Mon.-Sat. 11-5 P.M.

 

 

 

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple He

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North
SRR CI ER Ge SRE SME RE GEC me

id eiiciiaaiaa

.

 

cee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW HOURS...

PERMS

Capers

 

Caper 3

PRESENTS:

NEW STYLISTS...
TO SERVE YOU, CHARLENE DAMERON

TO SERVE YOU, OPEN ’TIL SEVEN

NEW PERM SALE
REG. $35.00 PERMS NOW $25.00
REG. $50.00 COMPUTER PROCESSED

NEW POLICY, WALK-INS WELCOME
(STILL NEED APPOINTMENT FOR TANNING BED HOWEVER)

SUSAN POST

NOW $40.00

25 N. MAIN
463-2566

 

Campus Music

117 W. Nelson Street 463-4544

The areas largest selection
Of compact disks
With Over 100 Titles!

Blank Tapes

Maxell XL1190 2pk. Reg. $6.92 NOW $5.00
TDK SA90.......................3pk. Reg. $8.94 NOW $6.42

12 string electric acoustic guitar. used price $350.00
Bundy trumpet - 10-yr.-old classic

Never used and special priced $250.00

 

 

 

 

Prices For The College Budget

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

 

Michelin B.F. Goodrich

* Alignment *
* Brakes x
x Radiator Repairs x
* Swim Tubes *

Hileman Tire & Radiator
536 E. Nelson St.

463-2146

mt Ainswering” Lering
%y: Don’t Sleep Through
Your Finals

Study Hard! Study Late!

Have trouble getting up?

| WAKE-UP SERVICE
463-1777

| Special Rates For Students
. Box 533 Lexington Ry a )

CUT FLOWERS
1/2 PRICE

Every Saturday
after 3 PM

 

 

 

florist to The Homestead

103 N. Jofforson
Lexington
_ 463-9841 _

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON SHOE

 

 

HOSPITAL

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy"
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

e Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

« Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to

go.

 

Expert Shoe Rebuilding
1

We have a complete
stock of golf shoes and
heels for spring and
summer.

   

Ridge Mountains.

3 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 

Wendell’s

brochures:

 

e Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only 3.49, Children under 6
years-99

 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

Barber
Shop

ERICH
J

 

 

 

$9 OFF

2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

 

OFF
$2" ott
expire
600 FE. Nel St. 4
talon. Wh April
453-/000

i need FABER
CLASS
your head OF
1988

for my business

 

 

 

ATTENTION: FACULTY & PARENTS

Only 70 miles from Washington and Lee is a beautiful relaxing
paradise — SMITH MOUNTAIN LAKE. | know because my parents
live there! This crystal clear lake with over 500 miles of shoreline
covering 22,000 acres is nestled in the foothills of the majestic Blue

SMITH MOUNTAIN LAKE offers excellent
VACATION, and RETIREMENT real estate opportunities. You can
sail, waterski, fish, golf, and enjoy many other recreational activities
on SMITH MOUNTAIN LAKE. It was Virginia’s best kept secret until
recently; now we are growing but still affordable with many quality
HOMES, TOWNHOUSES, CONDOMINIUMS, and INVESTMENT
LOTS available— ALL WATERFRONT PROPERTIES.

CALL me at (703)463-9793 in LEXINGTON or at the LAKE
(703)297-5795 for information or WRITE me for FREE color

  

INVESTMENT,

SELLERS & ASSOCIATES
Route 4 Box 28
Moneta. Virginia 24121

Your On Campus, Smith Mountain Lake Representative *

 

 

 

 
