THE UNIVEREITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LIEBE UNIVERSITY
LEXTRGTUON, VA. 24400

 

he King-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 22

Folline
fined in
DUI case

By RICK PELTZ
Phi Editor

 

 

Senior Class President and
Student Conduct Committee mem-
ber Joseph Read Folline was found
guilty Tuesday of driving with a
blood-alcohol level greater’ than .1
percent, a misdemeanor.

“Tt didn’t get a raw deal,”
Folline said Wednesday. “I was above
the legal limit and should not have
been driving.”

Folline also reaffirmed his
Feb. 5 statement that the incident
would have no effect on his judgment
as an SCC member.

“I’ve already been ques-
tioned about this,” Folline said. “I
don’t think you [The Ring-tum Phi]
have to bring it up again.”

Folline pled not guilty in
Lexington-Rockbridge Combined
General District Court.

Judge Joseph E. Hess fined
Folline $200 and restricted his driv-
ing to work- and school-related ac-
tivities. The fine may be suspended,
the judge ordered, if Folline partici-
pates in an alcohol awareness pro-
gram.

Folline’s defense was in part
based on his leadership at W&L and
his character. Folline’s attorney, Gor-
don F. Saunders, noted Folline’s sta-
tus as class president and presented a

letter from Dean of Students David

L. Howison. attesting to Folline’s
character.

“[When I met Folline,] 1 was
immediately impressed with his good
temperament, his intellectual insight,
and the good-natured manner he dem-
onstrated in dealing with people,”
Howison wrote.

Lexington Police Officer
Matthew J. Bennett said after he pulled
Folline over, Folline performed
poorly in roadside sobriety tests and
then failed a breathalizer field test.
Bennett arrested him and took him to
the police station for a breathalizer
test, where he blew a .15 blood-alco-
hol level.

Hill says firetruck donation and
city car tax are separate issues

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Valerie Shannon and senior Jay Fertile paint decorations for next weekend's Fancy Dress ball.

FD returns to the age of explorers

 

 

By Joyce BAUTISTA
Phi Staff Reporter

This year Fancy Dress goers will
embark on “A Return Voyage to the Age of

Exploration,” which will focus on the famed -

and fabled voyages of Christopher oe

i which began in 1492.

In 1992, vast amounts of money will
be expended all over the world on
quincentennial parades, statues and festivals
commemorating Columbus’ voyages. Yet some
people will splash blood-red paint on Colum-
bus statues and others have said they will hang
Columbus in effigy and try him in planned
tribunals.

Fancy Dress Vice-Chairman Lewis
Perkins said he hoped no controversy would
result from this year's theme.

“T don't see why it [the theme] needs
to be controversial,” he said. “This is a party.”

Most of the modern Columbus con-
troversy centers on his treatment of the natives
he encountered during his journeys. Some

critics say Columbus readily took advantage of the
natives, asking them where he could find the hordes
of gold that would make his mission worthwhile to
his Spanish sponsors. The critics say Columbus took
natives to Spain as slaves, and that he wrote about
what good servants the “Indians” would make.

 

~ Conversely, others say Columbus respected
the natives, that he used them as guides and transla-
tors. Such critics point out that he ultimately forbade
unfair trading between sailors and natives. Colum-
bus reported to the Spanish monarchs that the na-

tives could be converted to Christianity eas-
ily; he initially thought, incorrectly, that they
had no religion at all.

The critics also say Columbus’ po-
etic musings on the magnificence of the land
and the ignorance of the people probably
served as well to impress the king and queen
as to reflect Columbus’ own impressions. His
letters to the Spanish monarchs, critics argue,
are unreliable sources in determining Colum-
bus’ true thoughts and intentions, because his
audience was anticipating tales of gold and
opportunity.

According to Newsweek writer
David Gates, “Like heroes from Julius Cae-
sar to John Kennedy, Christopher Columbus
has mostly been who people want him to be.”

“Columbus sometimes exaggerated,
misinterpreted and just plain lied, particularly
in overselling the islands he discovered,” ac-
cording to Gates. For example, during his
first voyage Columbus reportedly kept two

 

COLUMBUS continued on page 6>

 

 

By LEIGH ALLEN

WA&L has given money, he said.

ing local businesses,” Dunn said.

 

MARCH 19, 1992

Students
denied
voting

By THOMAS EISENHAUER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

 

 

Sophomore Ryan Dennard
Monday appealed to a Rockbridge
County Circuit Court judge to re-
verse a decision by the Lexington
registrar that prevents him from reg-
istering to vote here.

Dennard said he tried to reg-
ister last Tuesday but was rejected by
the registrar, Lucille Joyce, who deter-
mined that he was not a Lexington
resident. He said he wants to partici-
pate in local party politics.

Joyce also would not allow
sophomore Matt Jackson or first-year
law student Chris Kowalczuk to regis-
ter Monday. Kowalczuk said he will
try to register today and file suit in
federal court if he is refused.

“I do live here for nine
months, and they are taxing me,” he
said. “I have no intention of paying
the car tax until this is resolved.”

The Virginia Constitution
says that a person can vote in the area
of his “domicile and place of abode.”

Normally, Joyce said, a per-
son can register if he claims to live in
Lexington and gives a street address.

But Joyce played “word ga-
mes” with Dennard in order to deter-
mine that he does not fit the require-
ments, he said. When he argued that
he claims Lexington as his place of
residence, Dennard said, Joyce threat-
ened to charge him with perjury.

In January 1990, the Lex-
ington Electoral Board ruled that stu-
dents can vote in Lexington , and that
the registrar cannot discriminate
against them.

Dennard’s appeal will be
decided by Judge George E. Honts
III. Joyce said, “Judge Honts ruled
before that students are transients.”

All three students said they
believe Joyce is trying to prevent stu-
dents from voting.

“She said, ‘I am the law in
Lexington when it comes to voting,’”
Kowalczuk said.

Phi Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee spokesmen say
auniversity donation of $50,000 to the city of
Lexington to replace an outdated fire truck is
unrelated to the car tax issue, but many stu-
dents disagree.

WA&L Director of Communications
Brian Shaw said that replacing the city’s 35-
year-old snorkel fire truck is necessary be-
cause the truck is designed to fight fires in
multi-story buildings like Gaines Hall, Gra-
ham-Lees, and the barracks at Virginia Mili-
tary Institute.

“Student lives would be put at risk if
the city did not have this truck,” Shaw said.
“Tying the car tax issue in with the money for
this fire truck is bullshit.”

Sophomore David McDannald dis-
agreed. He said he would support giving the
city money if it would drop the car tax.

“‘We shouldn’t be giving both ways,”
McDannald said.

City Manager T. Jon Ellestad said
the city also asked VMI, the city of Buena
Vista, and Rockbridge County to help pay for
the truck, which could be sent to fight fires
anywhere in Rockbridge County. But only

 

W&L will allot $10,000 annually
for the next five years for the $50,000 dona-
tion, according to W&L Treasurer Larry
Broomall.

Broomall said that W&L gives the
city about $55,000 a year, not including the
fire truck donation,
because W&L is ex-
empt from property
taxes, but uses many
city services.

According to
Ellestad, W&L stu-
dents pay about
$70,000 per year in
car taxes,

—~ Ellestad
Shaw said the city had
saved $200,000 toward the purchase of the
$600,000 truck, but the money had to be
spent when another fire truck broke down.

Ellestad said the city will save money
for 5 or 6 years before buying the new truck.

Sophomore Jason Dunn said that
students already share an unfair tax burden in
Lexington.

“They should be catering to us. We
already give them enough money by support-

Broomall said the city has made spe-
cial requests for money from the university
before.

Three years ago W&L donated
$100,000 to help the city build a new high
school because many faculty members have
children in public school here.

Broomall said the two requests are
similar because they both go to projects that
benefit the university.

In other news pertaining to the car
tax, Executive Committee President Giles
Perkins said on March 9 that he might support
some action to shield students from the car
tax.

Perkins said on March 9 he would
consider endorsing a boycott of city busi-
nesses like the one that was called off last
winter by then-EC President Tom Hatcher.

Hatcher preferred to try further me-
diation with the city, saying the boycott would
injure merchants who are not responsible for
levying the tax.

Perkins asked first-year law EC Rep.
Bill Callahan and second-year law EC Rep.
Jay Sterne to evaluate student options under
Virginia law and report to the EC Monday.

 

   

Sigma Phi Epsilon Photo

SPE freshmen (I to r) Phil Harries, Michael Neal, Drew Hammond and Kris
Fegenbush practice for their performance of "I'm Too Sexy:

SPE freshmen win MTV contest

 

By JENNIFER LATHAM
Phi Staff Reporter

 

How sexy can Sigma Phi Epsilon’s
lip sync team get?

Sexy enough to win MTV’s Lip
Service contest in Daytona Beach, Fla., on
Sunday, giving Washington and Lee its sec-
ond Lip Service win in three years,

After winning second place in the
W&L SAMS Rock-Alike contest, Stickboy
and the Catwalks were chosen to compete at
the MTV contest, performing “I’m Too Sexy.”

The competitions pitted the group

of Drew Hammond, Phil Harries, Michael
Neal, Robert Stewart and Kris Fegenbush
against other college competitors.

In addition to winning a trophy and
various gifts from Coca-Cola for themselves,
a check for $5,000 will be given to Students
Against Multiple Sclerosis in SPE’s name.

“The most exciting part was com-
peting and just being there with all those
celebrities,” Neal said.

The group can be seen on MTV’s
Lip Service Friday at 5 p.m., Saturday at 2
p.m. and 7:30 p.m., and Sunday at noon, 8
p.m. and 9 p.m,

 

 

 

 

Special FD pullout
souvenir page

center page

 

 

 

pages 4-5

 

 

Student perspectives
on FD experiences

 

 
Page 2

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

Don’t confuse
freedom and libel

In a true act of cowardice, someone last weekend
covered the campus with fliers accusing some members of
Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity of committing sex crimes and
others of allowing sex crimes to go unreported. The
posters were signed only with a pen name.

If the distributors of the fliers have evidence of a
crime, they should report it to authorities. The First
Amendment protects free expression, even anonymous
expression, but never libel.

The only purpose one-sided accusations like the fliers
serves is to make unfounded accusations without fear of
reprisal and free debate. That seems to idicate that the
accusor has something to hide.

Let’s set the
record straight

Throughout this year we have faced accusations of
insensitivity and sensationalism in our coverage. Many
students have accused us of using the power of the press
to undermine the community of trust at Washington and
Lee. Without addressing any single instance from the year,
we want to clarify our position.

The Ring-tum Phi is a newspaper. It is run by students,
it serves the W&L community, and it receives funding
from student government. But in the end, it is still a
newspaper. As such, it shares standards of professionalism
and ethics with every other respectable newspaper, from
The News-Gazette and The Rockbridge Weekly to The New
York Times, and yes, even USA Today. To some extent,
every newspaper must take into consideration the needs
and desires of the community it serves. And to some
extent, every newspaper has a responsibility to inform,
even when the published product is not palatable to the
community. So we walk a fine line.

Many students have told us that we should compromise
our professional standards because we are not a ‘‘real’’
newspaper. What they fail to understand is that no matter
what our standards are, no matter what we publish or do
not publish, facts will not change. Students have two
choices: to be ignorant of the facts or to be informed. The
role of journalists has always been, and will always be, to
create an informed public, a public well-equipped to make
decisions. As journalists, we cannot abdicate that
responsibilty. We would do everyone a disservice by
pretending that W&L is enclosed in a glass bubble, safe
from the unpleasantness of the outside world.

In order to fulfill our responsibilities, we have to do
the same things ‘‘real’’ journalists do. We make editorial
decisions about what stories are newsworthy, how they
should play in the paper, what the angle of coverage
should be, and so on. That is our job. That is what we
are here at W&L to learn to do more effectively. We do
not object to criticism; to the contrary, we invite it.

But we are disappointed when criticism reflects an
ignorance of what print journalism is. It is absurd to say
that the Phi covers something poorly because, to take a
common example, the university administration is offended
by the story. We are not in the business of making people
happy or sad. We are in the business of communication
and information.

We are also disappointed when critics attack members
of our staff personally and accuse them of malice and
intentional bias. We do not tolerate malice or intentional
bias of staff members in the performance of their duties.
And like any respectable newspaper, we do our very best
to filter out all bias. We always strive for objectivity.

The Ring-tum Phi is a newspaper. It observes. It
informs. It plays the role of watchdog. We do not ask that

you like what we print. We do ask that you understand
why we do it.

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley
Cathy Lopiccolo

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for Ti:z Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

OPINION

 

 

‘el

ree ey

The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1992

 

 

PREPARATION FaQ “THe
Commié ATTACK

 

INGVITARLE

 

 

 

pou! {

 

 

 

[

 

 

RON / Caf sh
By ARS

amis 1s Nor HAawG. IT 1S
COMPLETELY VoLUNTA RY. REALLY.

CRC: why stop

 

EA MORNING
VOLUNTARM Conti TION inée

(nemvés PeaenT owly
SO Feéesnmen bon'T
GET LOST. )

 

 

V7

MOoWoY

with speech?

LET IT RIDE

 

By Chris Swann

 

Last week, I read about the new CRC idea for protect-
ing those molested by language deemed unsuitable for ,
public hearing. Just what I need in college, a babysitter.
Two weeks ago, we conducted a major political experiment '
involving the presidential race. I believe now it is time to ,
examine our own campus government before it turns nasty.

According to the new proposal, free speech doesn’t
apply to Washington and Lee students. Anybody remember
signing a statement to that effect upon entering our school? °
Maybe it was somewhere
between the descriptions
of the Honor System and’
fraternity Rush, ‘‘Oh, and ,
by the way, no cursing or
it’s sayonara!’’ I’d like to’
examine the possible cir-,
cumstances of this little
codicil, if I may (of course’
I can, it’s my column). —_,

First off, all works of literature in our student library
containing any obscene or racial language must be bumed.”
I’ve always had a burning desire to torch The Confessions ,
of Nat Turner or The Catcher in the Rye. And forget great
works by black authors, like Native Son, because it has the’
word “‘nigger’’ in it. Gather round the bonfire, boys and,
girls, I’m just getting warmed up.

Next, let’s forget the theme parties on campus. Old*
South will definitely have to go because non-Southermers
might feel left out, and those attending obviously think

 

Gather round the
bonfire, boys and
girls, it’s time

to take the CRC’s
new idea to its
logical extreme.

 

 

New code does not
further W&L’S ‘MISSION 72222852516). vi we 9 00,

 

My VIEW

By Donald E. Jeffrey, 84, °92L

 

It is interesting that a majority of the CRC
has so summarily discarded the Constitutional
protection of free speech. The majority notes
that there are aspects of our Honor, fraternity
and student conduct systems which would
also violate the Constitution but that a private
school may do so to advance an ‘‘educational
mission.”’

How convenient to ignore that the CRC
stands alone in this group, because of its
embryonic nature. If we discard the Consti-
tution on the issue of free speech, what’s
next? Compulsory chapel services?

Part of W&L’s educational mission is to
expose people to diverse viewpoints. Mére- “'

over, the univérsity has been committed to
student self-government. This is why the
school can operate the Honor System so well.
Should we eschew all of this just to make
sure that no one ever gets his feelings hurt?

Faculty or deans should be involved in
rape cases. However, I remain opposed to the
CRC’s ‘‘offensive speech’’ role. Several of
the assumptions underlying the CRC’s role
here are repugnant. First, the CRC implies
that white male students are incapable of
adjudicating cases of conduct with racist or
sexist overtones. Yet, as I was writing this
letter, I read an article in the school newspa-
per from the predominantly white, predomi-
nantly Virginian, all-male, Hampden-Sydney
about a three-semester suspension meted out
to a white student who apparently left a
threatening message on the machine of a
black student there.

Second, there is a presumption that white
males will treat women and minorities differ-
ently. In my 30 years, I have had the opportu-
nity to attend W&L for seven years, a high
school with a significantly black student body
for three years and work for a federal agency
for over four years, and one thing has become

Student scolds

 
   

painfully clear to me: Decent people judge
others not on their color or gender, but on
their honesty, diligence, sense of humor,
coolness under fire, intelligence and ability to
stand on their own two feet. To send any
other message to students is antithetical to the
-educational mission of this school.

Indeed, one of our missions ought to be to
teach people to stand up for themselves. I am
reminded of Nat Hentoff’s story about a black
student at an Ivy League law school who
stood up and told one of the white students
arguing for a speech code that the white
student’s patronizing attitude toward him was
more harmful than the word ‘‘nigger.’’

Third, university disciplinary committees

_Should be looking at conduct and not speech,
‘per se. For example, if a person continues to
maké ‘‘ugly’’ jokes about someone who has
asked him to stop, the'SCC should examine
the conduct of harassment as opposed to the
content of the speech.

The very existence of the CRC implies
that we will sanction speech even if no pat-
tern of offensive conduct is present. The
chilling effect that this will have on speech
could be astonishing. Consider the likelihood
of being able to discuss fully the range of
opinions on welfare or abortion without
offending someone on racial or gender
grounds. Moreover, consider how easy it is to
offend someone inadvertently. Should some-
one be subject to discipline for a comment
laden with ‘‘subtle’’ racism or sexism?

One of the strongest arguments of those in
favor of co-education here was that it would
enhance the intellectual life of this campus
because of the woman’s viewpoint being
added. Wouldn’t it be interesting if the CRC,
a body designed to facilitate co-education,
silenced debate where the divergent views of
men and women could come to the surface?

The CRC should be relieved of its juris-
diction over speech issues. If students are
seeking such paternalism, they need only
apply to Ann Arbor.

slavery should be re-instituted. The Headbanger’s Ball is*
Out since it takes advantage of rebellious leather-wearing,
rebels by making fun of them. Sherman’s March to the Sea
takes a hike because it obviously condones raping, pillaging’
and arson. Ask any Georgian. Why, we’ll have to cancel,
Chi Omega’s White Camation Ball because it singles out

because it connotes an idea of fancy, i.e. rich, costumes or
outfits. Why not ‘‘Poor Dress’’ or ‘“The Unemployed’
Ball?’’ Anybody getting hot yet? Flames too high? Tough,
I’m not finished.

Now we turn to the fraternities. Alpha Phi Alpha wil
have to leave because it is a nationally black fraternity,
White males might feel intimidated. Kappa Alpha kicks the
bucket because of the reverse. The Fiji house will sign out;
too, because certain people might think Northerners are all
loud-mouthed Italians, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon is history

- because others might think they’re all drunk rednecks. °

Heck, we might just have to change the name of the
school. Both Washington and Lee owned slaves, a concept
that insults all intelligent people. So, let’s just rename out
‘university, because those people offend me for buying
people like mules. Doesn’t Wilson College has a nice ring.

I have to stop because this little fire I have started has
grown out of bounds and is consuming things beyond i
initial scope. Things like the Bill of Rights and the Consti-
tution, which the CRC didn’t intend to destroy. But theif
proposal, taken to logical extremes (and Americans have 4
knack for taking things to extremes), threatens to char and
incinerate those very documents. '

I have the right to say what I want, within certain laws
on obscenity. With that right comes the responsibility for
my words. If I call somebody ‘‘nigger,’’ a word I abhor, I
accept anger and any resulting action due to my saying that
word. I do not want a group such as the CRC judgin
whether or not I can graduate with my class after fighting
for a place at this special university because I call a girl a
“‘bitch.’’ I would hope we are all mature enough to realize
that such talk is absurd and that we will handle such
discourtesy ourselves without a watchdog enforcing polite
manners, True, good manners comes from within, not from
a law etched in stone. That is following orders, and I’m not
enlisted in any army. I would hope we are all strong
enough to speak our minds, whether or not somebod
agrees with us, and socially punish classmates who oan
outside the bounds of common courtesy and decency. »

But, alas, the politically correct have made inroads
even here. Line up outside Washington Hall, ladies and
gentlemen (excuse me, I mean, ‘‘persons with differing
sexual organs’’). Baby pacifiers will be distributed on the
left, and please drop off your constitutional rights in the
box on the left. Welcome to Generic Institute of Learning,
where your future rides on the shoulders of the meek and
inoffensive. By the way, no smoking — I hate cigarettes.’

 

LETTERS

    

honor.
The management of our Co-op has brought to
the attention of the Executive Committee that

 

 

Phi reporter, story

To the Editor:

I am writing to express my disgust and
offense at the recent Phi article, ‘‘Hudnall
cleared of rape and sodomy charges’’ (March
12). 1am embarrassed that such tabloid journal-
ism should be associated with the university and
supported by our student activities fee. Ms.
Lopiccolo must know that a sensitive issue like
rape needs to be handled with tact — not with
names needlessly dragged through the mud. I
only hope this article does not reflect a new,
lurid trend for The Ring-tum Phi. Will the
letterhead soon read The WAL Inquirer?

Sincerely,
Beith M. Provanzana, ’95

Phirape coverage
is not sensational

To the Editor:

{ would like to address the dissatisfaction
concerning the Phi’s recent article about the
Hudnall case. There are many people who
believe that the article should not have been
printed. They believe the issue is too sensitive
and has been sensationalized in the Phi. But I
think the Phi should be commended. Cathy
Lopiccolo wrote an accurate, professional jour-
nalistic account of the event. Our student paper
is about reporting real, relevant news, and rape
on the W&L campus is all too real and relevant.
All major media sources report on rape cases,
and the Phi never disclosed the victim’s name.

Rape is a subject that has been too often
ignored in the past. I know people on this
campus who have endured this trauma — noth-
ing was said or done. The situation has never
received adequate attention.

The student who came forward has done a
great thing for the women of Washington and
Lee. She has shown great courage in confront-
ing Hudnall in court. The Phi has also done a
service to all W&L women by printing the
story. We can only put an end to rape by stay-
ing aware and talking about it.

The Phi is not some school project meant to
entertain the students of W&L, it is a media
device meant to keep this community informed,
run by real, aspiring journalists.

Sincerely,
Kelli Klick, ’93

Ed. note — Ms. Klick is secretary of the Wash-
ington and Lee Publications Board.

EC warns thieves:
stealing is an HV

To the Student Body:

All of us enjoy the opportunity to purchase
food everyday at our Co-op. We have a unique
privilege to be able to place an order and then
pay for it while we wait. We are trusted by the
cashiers to tell them what we ordered, even
down to lettuce and tomatoes. They require no
proof of what we order, simply our word of

some students may be abusing this privilege.
The management feels that some students may
be taking food that they do not pay for. This
would obviously be stealing and a violation of
trust in the university community. This letter
serves as a warning that the Co-op will turn in
students to the EC who do not pay for their
food.

Thank you,
The Executive Committee

Law wives bash
MacKenzie, again

To the Editor:

Once again, the young Mr. MacKenzie, '93, |
has inspired us, two ‘‘Law Wives,’’ to put aside
our bon-bons, stop painting our toenails and turn ¥»
off Oprah just long enough to compose this
letter. We, the proletariat, are incensed by young
Mr. MacKenzie’s consistent, insidious bashing
of the democratic system, a system of which we
are justifiably proud.

Since Mr. MacKenzie seems only to formu-
late thoughts in sharp words and sarcasm, the
remainder of this letter will be duly mean-spirit-
ed and condescending. Niall, oh Niall, (does that »
rhyme with ‘‘puerile’’?), when will you see the
light? You are not the only one who has ven- ~
tured beyond his native borders. Which brings +
us to an interesting point: where did you spend _

LETTERS continued on page 3>

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1992

 

 

}

  

 

v LETTERS continued from page 2

 

those first 19 years of your life? And if you
enjoyed sharing such hearty laughter with those
foreign nationals at the expense of the American
system, why do you languish within her bor-
ders? Surely this country is much too misguided
in its view of proper government for you to
stoop to live here.

Perhaps you are in America because your
fellow Canadians could no longer bear your
insufferable bellyaching and encouraged you to
spread the misery around. You, the disaffected
rich boy, have done just that. Instead of spread-
ing prosperity and goodwill, you spread pessi-
mism and bitterness. You are the quintessential
tapeworm in the stomach that is the American
system.

Despite your prolific writings on the subject,
you appear to need a lesson in democracy.
While you have exercised your right to free
speech (often), you have not exercised your
brain in the bargain. We all know that democra-
cy can permit unfortunate results for a few
individuals; yet Americans do not stampede to
abolish our system wholesale. And citizens of
undemocratic countries, when given the choice,
invariably choose democracy. Witness: Nicara-
gua, Estonia, Czechoslovakia, Russia, Poland,
Chile, Hungary, Turkey... And the essence of
democracy: the right to vote.

We are hardly surprised at your cynicism in
rejecting the power of the ballot box. You,
young Mr. MacKenzie, have been given every-
thing and have sacrificed nothing. By your
ungrateful behavior, you have demonstrated to
all of us that you do not deserve freedom as
much as those less fortunate persons in other
lands, who risk life and limb for the chance to
taste liberty.

Since you are so well-travelled, maybe you
ought to take your show on the road once again:
we hear the communist Chinese are looking for
a few volunteers for their PR department. You
ought to fit right in. And until that blessed day,
remember that you are not part of the solution,
you are part of the problem.

Howling With Derisive Laughter,
Martha Miller, Law Wife ’92,

First Generation American and Taxpayer
Kara Neurock, Law Wife 92,

Tax-paying American (and proud of it)

P.S. — Please send us an autographed copy of
your Parisian memoirs. We love comic books...

Criticism avoids
finding a solution

To the Editor: {

Heaven knows I wouldn’t want to add to the
growing ego of Mr. MacKenzie, but I felt it
necessary to truly set the record straight and
save us all from his continuing barrage of
truisms.

It is apparent from his letter to the Phi on
March 12 that Mr. MacKenzie has no personal
affection for the United States and her system of
government. Fine. It’s probably fair to say that
everyone has, at some point, criticized our
government. It is one of the rights given us by
the Constitution. However, I fail to see the
utility of tearing down the entire infrastructure
of our society without offering a single tenable
solution to its problems. Yes, our system is
flawed, but has Mr. MacKenzie provided us
with any answers to the faults he has so easily
found? Has the ever-so-worldly Mr. MacKenzie
encountered a system so far superior to ours that
we should scrap 216 years of work? I doubt it.

It seems unlikely that we’ve heard the last of
Mr. MacKenzie, but I would just like to say that

 

Page 3

 

OPINION

 

 

 

LETTERS

if all he has to offer are a lot of unsubstantiated
opinions, then he is no better than those he so
adamantly criticizes.

Sincerely,
Jennifer K. Gladwell, ’93

Principle destroys
what it ‘protects’

To the Editor:

The Confidential Review Committee’s new
conduct creed considers it Washington and
Lee’s privilege to deny us our First Amendment
rights because W&L is a private institution.
Does this mean that all of our Constitutional
rights will be denied by the university? What’s
next? Will women not be allowed to vote? Will
students be denied habeas corpus? Will we be
denied the freedom to practice our own religion?

According to Amendment X of the Constitu-
tion, ‘‘the powers not delegated to the United
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it,
to the states, are reserved to the states respec-
tively, or to the people.’’ As a student-run
government, doesn’t that mean that we, as the
students, have the right to determine whether or
not the administration can censor our opinions
and publications?

By denying our Constitutional rights, the
CRC is undermining its own position, since it is
the Constitution that gives us that equal oppor-
tunity. By denying us our Constitutional rights,
the CRC is rejecting one of the fundamental
ideas they are trying to uphold.

Sincerely,
Heather Leonard, ’94

Class of 92 urged
to give annually

To the Class of 1992:

As the Young Alumni Vice Chairman of the
Washington and Lee Annual Fund, I am respon-
sible for encouraging greater participation in the
Annual Fund among young alumni.

For those who are not familiar with the
Annual Fund, it is the primary means of solicit-
ing alumni contributions to the university.
Unlike contributions to the university’s endow-

ment, contributions to the Annual Fund are used .,
to, buy, library, books,, pay faculty, salaries,and ,

otherwise finance. the same costs, covered by.
tuition. In fact, a strong Annual Fund is what
allows W&L to maintain tuition at a relatively
low level, especially in comparison to other
selective schools across the country.

Although W&L alumni take great pride in
the university, W&L continually ranks well
below most schools with which we compete in
terms of the percentage of alumni contributing
to the Annual Fund. Because improving Alumni
participation is a continuing priority, we are
making a special effort to encourage alumni
who have graduated since 1981 to contribute to
the Annual Fund.

Part of this effort is to emphasize to current
W&L students the importance of the Annual
Fund, continuing a tradition with the Class of
1992, who will soon be the youngest of the
university’s alumni. In the next several weeks,
members of the class will be contacted by a
classmate about participating in the 1992-93
Annual Fund through the Senior Class Pledge
Project. I hope that students, when contacted

  

about the Annual Fund, will make a pledge and
participate fully in the success of the university.

Sincerely,
Bennett Ross, ’83

Live Drive thanks
MC volunteers

To the W&L Community,

I want to recognize the people who volun-
teered their time to Live Drive for Mock
Convention weekend, and I wish to share last
weekend’s statistics with the community.

Thanks to Amy Roberson, Jess Graff,
Melissa McNaull, Dionne Blyden, Sara Morgan,
B.J. League, R.H. Powell, Alan Hamrick, Chris
Barlow, Whitney Bludworth, Doug Burns, Ros-
anne Cornbrooks and Bill Gregg for Live Dri-
ve’s 45 man-hours logged last weekend. Special
thanks to everyone who worked until 2:30 and
3 a.m. until Zollman’s was cleared. Live Drive
carried about 575 people MC weekend.

To all those callers who found another route
before we got to you, we can only say, we did
our best. Thank you for your courtesy and
understanding.

Finally, we appreciate the many thank you’s
we get when picking people up. But the best
way you can show your gratitude is to get
involved. If each person who used Live Drive
this weekend signed up to work just once, it
would keep us rolling the year round. So we
hope to see many of you in the driver’s seat in
the future.

On Behalf of Live Drive,
Rick Peltz, 93

Ed. note — The preceding letter was received on
March 9.

Freshmen pay tax
and get nothing

To the Editor:

I am writing in response to an incident that I
witnessed on Monday, March 16. About 1:45
p.m. I saw a sight we are all too familiar with -
a W&L security guard towing a car. What made
this unusual was where the car was parked —
not on W&L property, but on the street in front
of Sigma Chi. When I asked why, I was told
that freshmen weren’t allowed to park anywhere
except the freshmen lot. I was amazed to leam
this, especially since they are subject to the
same car tax that we are.

So basically, they have to pay the tax and
then are not allowed by W&L, not Lexington, to
even use the streets that they pay for. What

_gives W&L security the right to decide where

anyone can park as long as it’s not on campus?
In the fall of 1988, there were around 1,100
spaces for 1,200 stickers. Of course, that was
before both Gaines and Lenfest took over prime
parking areas. Don’t get me wrong, I love not
being able to find a space in the Corral at 8:45
on a Tuesday morning or, for that matter, any
evening. It seems that the majority of cars in the
corral are permanently parked there, leaving no
room for anyone else. Maybe W&L should
spend more time and money trying to come up
with more parking spaces and less on supplying
the city with a new fire-fighting truck.

Sincerely,
Lee A. Rorrer, ’93

 

Ed Note: The Ring-tum Phi attempts to run all
letters to the editor. However, due to a glut of
letters received for this issue we could not.
Items were selected for publication solely by
order of submission and space available.

 
 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Russian Film

The film Brothers Karamazov
will be shown at 7:00 p.m on
March 19 in Reid Hall 203. The
film is sponsored by the Russian
Film Series. A brief commen-
tary will precede the showing
and the public is invited. The
film is especially recommended
for students of the Russian
language, philosophy, history,
politics, religion, and film stud-
ies. There will only be one
showing.

War College
The U.S. Army War College
Current Affairs Panel convenes
Session I: ‘‘Prospects for the
World Socialist Movement’’ at
7:30 p.m. on March 24 in Com-
merce School 327 and Session
II: ‘‘The East-West European
Community’’ at 7:30 p.m. on
March 25 in Commerce School
327. Seven military specialists
from the USAWC will conduct
the panels. This panel is spon-
sored by the Politics Department
and the Foreign Affairs Club.
The public is invited. The panel-
ists will remain on campus for
classroom talks upon request.
For details, contact Prof. C.
McCaughrin, Politics, Dept., ext.
8624.

Generalprobe

Generalprobe, a newly formed
drama group comprised of Ger-
man majors and upper level
German students, will perform
two one-act comedies in the
German language. The plays
will be performed on March 24-
25 at 7 p.m. in the Lenfest
Center’s Johnson Theatre. Ad-
mission is free. Both plays will
be performed in German. An
English synopsis is included in
the program. The plays are
sponsored by the German De-
partment.

Fly Fishing
Professor McDaniel and several
students will hold casting ses-
sions Thursdays at 4 p.m. at the
Liberty Hall ruins. All fly fish-
ermen and interested students
are welcome. For more informa-
tion, contact Andrew Tucker at
AGSOIZ ee Be ee

Film Society
The next presentation of the
Washington and Lee Film Soci-
ety will be The Last Temptation
of Christ, directed by Martin
Scorsese. Showings will be at
8:05 p.m. on March 20-21 in
Lewis Hall Classroom ‘‘A.”’
There is no charge for admis-
sion. The film is in English. The
Last Temptation of Christ is
Scorsese’s controversial adapta-
tion of Nikos Kazantzaki's
controversial novel of the last
days of Jesus Christ. There will
also be an important Film Soci-
ety meeting on March 19 in
Commerce School Room 221 at
7:05 p.m. They will vote on a
film for the spring term and
discuss the student film contest.

Lost Rings

Two rings have been lost. One
is a gold ring with script initials
MSC on the underside and reads
Russell High School ’91 12-13-
89. If found, please contact
Mark Crider at 463-9510. A
ring of great sentimental value
has also been lost. It is a 1939
gold class ring with the initials
LRS on the inside of the band.
If found, please call 464-4014.

Amnesty
There will be an Amnesty Inter-
national Write-A-Thon on
March 23 in the Co-op. Please
stop by and sign a letter. With
every 25 cent donation, you
eam a chance to win a T-shirt.

Calyx News

Senior pictures can be turned
into the Calyx up until March
a1;

Student Offices

Applications for positions on
next year’s Contact Committee,
Student Activities Executive
Board, Cold Check Committee
and Emergency Loan Commit-
tee. Only those going away for
Spring term only may pick up
applications in front of Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center beginning March 23.
They are due 5 p.m., March 30.

Experiment

People are needed to participate
in a psychology experiment. It’s
painless, For more information,
please call Carlin Jones ASAP
at 464-3971.

SCC

Four members of the class of
1995 were found guilty o a
violation of the university drug
policy. The students were turned
into the SCC by the Dean of
Residence Life. The SCC sen-
tenced them to eviction from the
dorms, 30 hours of community
service, two counseling sessions
with Dr. Worth, and conduct
probation through the end of the
year. One member of the class
of 1995 was found guilty of a
third dormitory policy violation.

’ The’ studént was turned into the:

SCC by the head dorm counsel-
or. The student was sentenced to
eight hours with Live Drive, a
$25 fine, and conduct probation
through the end of the year.
Three additional cases were
investigated and dismissed.

Report

Be a reporter for The Ring-tum
Phi spring term. Call Tom Ei-
senhauer at 463-9544,

No Notes

This is the last regular issue of
The Ring-tum Phi for winter
term. General Notes will resume
April 23.

Jameson Leonardi compiled the
General Notes.

 

Ss

     

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

In honor of Sigma Phi Epsilon’s victory
Daytona, what are you Joo Sexy For ?

In

 

 

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

Jeff Tibbals, 95, Dallas, Texas
— ‘‘Pledgeship’’

Christy Johnson, ’93,
Lawrenceville, N.J. _
*“Reggie Aggarwal”

Marshall Boswell, English
Department — ‘‘My girlfriend,
which no doubt explains why
she slammed me, presumably
for another guy.”’

Robert Stewart, ’95, Lithonia,
Ga. and “I’m Too Sexy’’ act Fla,
participant — ‘‘Daytona — it’s

the cheesiest place ever.’’

Ricci Webb, ’92, Maitland,
— ‘“FD”’

Kathy Koberstein, Romance
Languages Department —
“‘The answer to that is obvious:
Lexington, Va. ...although, I
was invited to go dancing at the
Moose Lodge.”’

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1992

 

ancy |

  

 

By BRANT MARTIN
Senior

 

I’m not really sure why the Phi asked me to write a
perspective on Fancy Dress. If the editors had followed
me around on any of my past three FD’s, I’m pretty sure
they would have asked someone else. I have an uncanny
ability to ask the wrong person, and the choice of date is
theoretically one of the keys to having a successful
weekend.

I say theoretically because that’s the beauty of FD.
You can take the female equivalent of the Antichrist and
still have a good time. I know, I’ve done it. Yet even
taking into account my track record of female compan-
ions, the three FD’s I’ve attended still rank up there as
three of the best weekends I’ve had at W&L.

Now, I’m not going to go off and tell a bunch of
obscure stories about FD that involve people only myself
and my friends know. I'll let the junior and sophomore
perspectives do that, and everyone except for the freshmen
can skip over them like always. What I thought was best
to do was to formulate my own warped version of a FD
guideline. The following criteria are only suggestions,
ignore them at your benefit or peril.

1. Take someone fun. FD is expensive, and you
don’t want to waste your money on someone who’s going
to sit there and watch while you have a great time. A
corollary to this rule is that high school girlfriends or
boyfriends who are still in high school are usually a bad
choice. They’re not in college yet, and they have no idea
what you've been doing for the past seven months. Keep
it that way. They'll find out soon enough when they get
to college.

2. Plan to spend a lot more money than you antici-

 

t Vhe Righ; Be

3” Sp eg

Standard 10% Discount

With Student I.D.

 

 

  

Tyson-Holly Se

     

pone ee g

| Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

703/463-2022 \
11 W. Nelson St.

Lexington, VA 24450

a li

, Limit 3 Pkg
pdcpionsl Pe

* Purchase

Quarters » #

 

FD

pate. I guarantee you’ll spend it. Take your most liberal
estimate on what you think you'll need and add at least
$50, depending on your spending habits.

3. Learn at least one ballroom dance. This sounds
stupid, but dancing to the orchestra or swing band is a
blast.

4. When you first get to the ball, walk around and
look at the decorations. You won’t recognize the gym,
and the FD committees do a great job decorating. This is
not a prom with cheap crepe paper and cardboard stars.

5. The week of FD, get your work done early. You
won't get any work done during the weekend.

6. Buy good beer for the weekend. Don’t let your
date think you’re cheap unless he or she already knows it.

7. Don’t take your FD cups to any of the weekend
parties if you plan on keeping them.

8. If you lose your date, don’t spend all weekend
chasing after him or her. If you get ditched, find someone
else who has been ditched. There will be plenty. For some
reason, FD is conducive to date-swapping, and it makes
for great stories you can tell all of your friends on Sun-
day.

9. Don’t tell your date, ‘Well, I was going to take
him or her, but he or she already had a date.”’ This is
common sense, but you’d be surprised at the number of
times it happens. If you do make this mistake, refer to
guideline #8 for help in coping with the aftermath.

10. Have fun, and don’t stress out about finals
coming up. You can take a class over again, but you only
have four FD’s.

Well, there it is. I’m sure some others will come to
mind, but that should give you a pretty good idea. Num-
ber 10 is the most important; FD is a great tradition and
a lot of fun, so just relax and enjoy the ride.

  

Rt. 5, Box 379

  

 

ee

ress... Expectations, memorie:

Pace yourself, you'll have a b

 

By JENNY MITCHELL
Sophomore

 

Fancy Dress, the biggest and best party at
WAL, brings to campus a spirit of exuberance and
fun that we look forward to experiencing all year.

Girls start worrying and wondering who their
FD dates are going to be months in advance. After
Christmas break, the ‘‘FD date’’ becomes #1 on
the agenda. FD’s imminent arrival is marked by a
noticeable increase in the number of party par-
ticipants between the months of January and
March. Even the academicians of W&L who never
set foot outside the library, except to make a
disciplined two-and-a-quarter-minute trek to the co-
op and back, break “‘tradition’’ and go to parties in
their effort to get a date.

As further evidence of FD’s importance, most
guys actually ask their chosen girl a week and a
half or more in advance of the great occasion.
These facts alone make FD an extremely signifi-
cant event. Why is it so significant?

It is three days chock full of fun. You get to
eat at a nice restaurant (if you’re lucky), dance to

good music without bumping into people (because
there is enough room, unlike at most fraternity
parties), look like you spent more than ten minutes
getting dressed and party as hard as you like.
Another great part of FD is watching what every-
body else is doing.

Basically, you see a bunch of people maneu-
vering around the dance floor and either acting like
Or not even pretending to know what they’re doing.

Once in awhile there will be a couple looking
dreamily into one another’s eyes moving in an ever
slower circle over the same spot.

Then, of course, you run into the Hollywood
wannabes who collide into, run over and trample
people in a frenzied attempt to catch the photog-
raphers.

It must be noted, however, that at least half
the people have no clue that they have been
knocked into because they are so faint from their
recent decision to put themselves on a liquid diet.

Another interesting phenomenon you will
observe is the single female or male furtively dart-
ing from one part of the gym to the other talking to
different people and sort of blending in with the

 

 

 

LEE HI

 

 

 

By CHARLOTTE LONG
Freshman

Fancy Dress? I have no idea what is in
store for me, but the stories I have heard from
past years leave me with great expectations.

Actually, the majority of the people who
shared their experiences with me commented on
how many people got Minor-in-Possession tick-
ets or were picked up for public intoxication. At
least I’ll know what to avoid! I was advised to
look at the decorations before the dance because
they are so magnificent, but supposedly no one
remembers them.

 

 

  

general crov
ly few), thc
Beside
there are a
engage ones
you run a hi
not making
that many
unfortunate
Theret
activities \
everything.
you start off
get too exh
avoid this y«
program lik:
But, c
manage to ¢
conditioning
Anywi
the entire W
luck. It tak
through our
complete ph

What will FD be

Onl
last year |
when they
last year’s
locker root

Some
were drusk
50 degree
open to n
don’t se@
swim on F

After
FD, | have
believe) it

 

 

 

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

     
      
        
 
          
 

 

 

4

Valley WueValue Hardware

Lee Hi Truck St :
Lee Hi Trucking, Hardware, Paint and Related Items
Lee Hi Truck Parts :
Lee Hi Wrecker Service : \
a nee Open Mon.-Sat, 8:30-6:00 Sun, 1:00-5:00.
€ Fil Kestauran!
703-463-3478 E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

 

 

 

  
    

 

*REDUCED»
LA

Si¢

Le

     
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chicken of
The Sea Tuna

y

6.125 Oz.

Cans
LIMIT 2 WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

  

Parkay

   

 

 

inorauvinn’é Qtrs. .

For '
1 Pound
Pkgs. ® '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

2 liter Bottle - Diet Coke or

Coca-Cola |
Classic

  

 

ollege Retirement Equities Fune

n | €

 

 

Prices Effective Through March 24, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, March 24, 1992. In Mecklen burg County Stores Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 

y
Insurance an

 

 
Sa

IFE |

anne

The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1992, Page 5
SSS SREB TELA BED IEE LEL LAELIA ARI AAA

and some interesting perspectives
Pieasure is the prime concern

tter time

those who don’t know (hopeful-
iding from their date.
ntertainment on the dance floor,
‘ore FD activities in which to
ithout pacing yourself, however,
< of not remembering, or worse,
‘D.'It is a well-documented fact
Student has fallen into this

Yi

he key to enjoying all these
satisfaction is moderation, in
id of like a long distance run. If
wd and fast at the beginning you
and/or nauseous to finish. To
d put yourself through a training
would in running.

ring the fact that most people
te FD weekend in its entirety, a
am seems a bit ridiculous.
those few who have not gained
‘ancy Dress experience, best of
real man or woman to make it
ial three-day Fun Run in one
and psychological piece.

'

like?

| side, two friends told me that
vere searching for their dates
ned upon the Kings of Swing,
g band. They hung out in the
le the band was on break.

‘Ise told me that a few people
gh'to go for a sobering swim in
r after the dance. I’m usually
d whimsical adventures, but I
lf participating in a ‘‘freeze’’
Dress night.

ng many different stories about
iga what to expect. I hope (and
© a memorable(?) experience.

 

 

<<. \

X

Ld

\

5 Z

   
   
    
 

     

  

vs i? oe * ce: i

   

Rx( the a
BRAND say
Ss a K ya :

[a eA

The FD from Hell

 

By EMILY GREER
Senior

I guess I’ve had my share of
Fancy Dress nightmares. I have been,
since freshman year, one of the first
to say, ‘‘FD is overrated,’’ but last
year I had such a good time with one
of my best friends, that my whole
idea of messy FD’s was confounded,
and I can no longer claim to have a
perfect running score of FD disasters.

Freshman year, I panicked and
invited an ex-boyfriend from Georgia
Tech, who proceeded to do water-
bongs all weekend in my dorm room,
and was so far gone at the ball, in the
tux / rented, after eating the Dom-
ino’s pizza(s?) / paid for, with the FD
tickets I also paid for, that he was
unable to appreciate the extensive
decorations in the Warner Center. |
owe much to my dorm counselor for
her subtle response to the odd smell
permeating our hall. She could have
made my life rather difficult post-weekend.

| Fabrics * Wall Coverings * Draperies
Bedspreads * Swags & Benjamin Moore Paints

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE INTERIORS, INC.

 

 

117 S. Main St.

 

 

Jansport day packs and book ba
_ Lexington Bike
30 §. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

 

Ze RINCIPLES

 

Cannondale - ‘TREK -.Diamond Back - Giant Se ee

of SOUND, RETIREMEN'!

     

463-4200
Merrie Gayle McNemar

Shop

463-7969

 

Cruise Lines Now ing.

$2;000+ per month working on cruise
ships. World travel! Holiday, Sum-
merand Full-timeemploymentavail-
able. For Emplo

  

My date’s entire contributions to
the weekend, on the other hand, in-
cluded a ‘‘bag,’’ (which I am sure he
expected me to be as delighted with
as he was), and a six-pack of Miller
Lite, THE Mt. Brook beer. (You
either know what I mean, or else you
don’t).

Perhaps I’ve said too much
about my freshman FD already; the
rest is none of your business.

Sophomore year. Scratch that
year altogether. NOT good.

Junior year, with my _ great
friend, Rick. He was the best. A very
amusing dinner, 8 of us teasing the
stodginess of the Homestead’s Dining
Room. I’ll never forget the size of the
crayfish that was supposed to garnish
my main entree, ‘‘Unduh du sea.”’
(It’s from the movie The Little
Mermaid, you clueless slobs.)

This year, well, I am a senior.
But the outcome of this FD remains
to be seen. If you have any sugges-
tions as to how I should occupy my-
self, the number’s 463-9488.

 

By MEREDITH GRONROOS
Junior

 

     

   

There is nothing else like Fancy
Dress, ‘‘THE collegiate event of the
South,” a phrase that I read in the
Phi my freshman year and that has
stayed with me ever since.

The best party of the year, at a
school which excels at both education
and recreation, is obviously a function
of epic proportions. An entire week-
end of new clothes, or nonstop drink-
ing, depending on your priorities.
Junior women, only for whom can I
speak, are armed with the experiences
of prior years and are ready for the
weekend, and most importantly, the
ball.

There are certain precautions to
take and preparations to make that
will ensure a pleasurable FD experi-
ence for all concerned. First and fore-
most — and I cannot stress this
enough — do not, and I'll repeat it,
do not let anyone persuade you to try
a new and unusual cocktail or mixed
drink in honor of FD. This is the
worst thing you can do. Stay with
what you know, because I guarantee
you, in the excitement of the occa-
sion, you will not even notice how
much you are ‘“‘trying.’’ And before
you know it, FD will be just a memo-
ry for you — and your date, by whom
you will henceforth be remembered
as “‘you know, the one I took to FD.
Uggh.”’

Secondly, don’t expect to have
the evening of your life, and you will.
Do you remember the prom? Months
of anticipation, and in most cases,
little to show for it. Take FD for what

 

 

Nappogalllo

WINTER SALE
All Winter Merchandise — 12 Off

“Spring Fashions Are In”

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

 

 

CRUE SReS

Earn},

   

ment Program call

1-206-545-4155 ext. C 328

INVESTING

|

 

 

WHY YOU SHOULD START PLANNING FOR

 

 

‘RETIREMENT WITH YOUR EYES CLOSED.

or retirement to be the time of your life, you
have to dream a little—about the things
you've always wanted to do: travel, explore,

+ ‘start a business. Just imagine...

With a dream and a plan, you can make it
happen. Your pension and Social Security
should provide a good
basic retirement income,
but what about all those
extras that make your
dreams possible? You'll
probably need some
additional savings.

THE DREAM IS YOUR OWN.
WE CAN HELP YOU WITH THE PLAN.

 

TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement
Annuities (SRAs), tax-deferred annuities for
people like you in education and research, are
a good way to save for retirement and save
on taxes now. SRAs are easy ~ you make con-
tributions through your institution before your -
taxes are calculated, so you pay less tax now.

You pay no tax on {
your SRA contributions
* ‘and earnings until you
. 5 :

  
 

prec eive them as income.
sens saving regularly
means your contribu- ,
; pions and their earnings if

'

k

t

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it*”

 

before you retire*

ment will be.

Jastitution (Full name)
ith

TIAA-CREF Participant

oe
Vig sy
| START PLANNING FOR THE Sin,
| TIME OF YOUR LIFE, TODAY.
| For your free TIAA-CREF Supplemental 2
Retirement Annuity Kit, send this coupon to “
| TIAA-CREF, Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue,
| New York, NY 10017. Or call 1 800 842-2733, Ext. 8016.
| Name ( Please print) =
| Idee
|
|
|
|
|
|

 

Oder O Ne

 

#* Depending upon yc stitution
n, including charges and expe

plan and the state you

live in are
nses, call 1 800 842-2733, Ext 5509 for a prospectu

CREF annuities fistributed by TIAA-CREF Ind

can add up quickly.

What else makes SRAs
so special? A broad range
of allocation choices, from
, the safety of TIAA to the
investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity;
no sales charges; a variety of ways to receive
income, including annuities, payments over a
fixed period, or cash. You may also be able to
borrow against your SRA accumulation

All this, plus the top investment manage-
ment that has helped make TIAA-CREF the
largest retirement system in the country.

So start dreaming and planning for the time
of your life. Because the sooner you start your
SRA, the greater your savings and your retire-

tual &
Read the prospectus caretully bet

 

 

Stat Zip Coe

 

 

 

it is: the biggest and best dressed
party you’ve ever been to.

Speaking of best dressed, there
are a few things to think of when
purchasing and planning the FD en-
semble besides, ‘‘When he sees me in
this. dress, he’s gonna wish he never
laid eyes on that sorry hag by his
side,”’

Having fun will high on your list
of priorities. First, | will not buy a
dress which restricts my movement in
any way. If I cannot simultaneously
hold my drink out to the side, shag
and/or jitterbug, make my way
through crowds, pose for pictures and
support my stumbling date in this
dress, then I am hating it.

I will not wear shoes that look
good, but that don’t have traction on
the floor covered in spilled drinks, or
won’t let me walk many miles from
the pre-party to the gym. (It always
seems like miles, even if it’s right
down the street.)

I will not burden myself with a
high-maintenance hairdo. Having to
fight my way into the bathroom every
ten minutes through the hordes of
other insecure and unsteady women
will cut down on my dance-floor
time. (And I wouldn’t want to deprive
all my fans of that graceful sight.)

I won’t wear long, dangly or
heavy jewelry that requires constant
readjustment because that’s just a
pain in the butt, and I only have two
hands after all.

Most men don’t notice that FD
provides other amusements besides
the bands and the decorations. The-
re’s the perennial favorite, ‘‘Would
You Look What She’s Wearing!’’

This game can be played for hours at
a time, with one or ten of your clos-
est girlfriends, some of whom you
may have just met in the bathroom.

The object of this game is to find
fellow party-goers who fit into one or
more of the following categories:
“‘What A Gorgeous Dress!;’’ ‘‘That
Dress Has S-E-M Written All Over
ltl; ==My Last Year &
FD/Christmas/New Year’s Dress
Looks Just Like That Except...;’’
‘“‘BIG HAIR! BIG HAIR!;”’ ‘‘Who Is
She With?;’’ and my personal favor-
ite, “Those Shoes Do not Go With
That Dress.’’

This is a good game to play if
you did not suit up for this ‘‘athletic”’
event as carefully as I suggested, and
find that your feet are hurting you
big-time. One warning however: dates
who do not bring to people-watching
the same vigor that you do can get a
little ornery if you seem to be enjoy-
ing the game more than their compa-
ny.

However, before I even arrive this
year, there are a couple of things
which I am determined to do. I am
going to go to those Arthur Murray
dance lessons offered way-cheap right
before FD if it kills me.

Also, before I graduate I am
going to attend FD in costume, be-
cause that is the only way to adhere
to the true spirit of the ball, and the
only sure way to have the eyes of
everyone in the gym upon you.
Which really is the goal after all, no
matter which category you fit into,
right?

So in the immortal words of
Wayne and Garth, Party on.

Final Dance Class Before FD
Monday, March 23rd

6 to 7 P.M.
7to8 P.M.
or 8 to9 P.M.

Fairfax Lounge, University Center
Come with or without a partner.
$5.00 per person
Frank Roupas

Learn Fox Trot, Waltz, Swing, Shag in one hour!

 

There are hundreds
of questions on the

GMAT, GRE and LSAT.

This checklist will help
you answer all of them.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kaplan offers the best value.
Our courses are competitively priced and offer the

complete preparation that has helped more students get
into the school of their choice than anyone else.

Kaplan is the industry leader.
53 years of experience and 2 million graduates
prove we've got the expertise and resources it

takes to help students succeed.

Kaplan Test Prep

 

VW The Answer

paglen makes test prep convenient.
With 150 centers and thousands of class schedules,
the odds are we'll be ready to teach when and
where you need us to be there.

Kaplan helps you manage your time.
Diagnostic tests and personalized counseling help

you recognize stumbling blocks early on, before
they hurt your performance,

© 1992 Scanley H Kaplan Educational Center Led.

 

 
Page 6

 

NEWS

 

 

 

 

 

Changes won't expand CRC's jurisdiction

 

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Staff Reporter

 

The Confidential Review Committee’s 46-page pro-
posal to restructure itself would not change the CRC’s jurisdic-
tion, said CRC Chairman Joan Shaughnessy.

If the present proposal is accepted, Shaughnessy said,
the revised CRC would maintain its current jurisdiction over
verbal harassment and sexual harassment and assault. She said
the CRC would not enforce the proposed “Principle of Civility
and Decency” beyond those categories.

Shaughnessy said the only substantial changes would
be that the CRC would have a student majority and that student
representatives would be appointed by the Executive Com-
mittee, instead of by the university president.

Another major change is that if both the accused and
accuser in a case consent, the case may be heard in front of the
SCC instead of the CRC.

“The CRC hopes that with time the SCC will be able to

take over all these areas completely,” Shaughnessy said. “But
the majority of the committee feels that time has not yet arrived.

The proposal is being reviewed by the Student Affairs
Committee, which will make a recommendation to the faculty.
The faculty will vote on SAC’s recommendation in May. The
revisions do not have to be approved by the student body.

An overwhelming majority of students who were asked
for their opinions on the proposal said they did not know enough
about it to make a decision.

“I can’t comment on something I haven’t seen,” junior
Jennifer Gibson said. Gibson said she thinks the proposal should
be available to students.

EC Secretary Caroline Wight said she tried to help a
student find a copy of the report, but couldn’t.

“It hasn’t been really publicized. It would be hard for
people to know about it,” Wight said. “If students want to read
{the report] they really have to search for it.”

Dean of Students and SAC Chairman David Howison
said copies of the report are on reserve at the library for students.

 

 

 

Have A Great
Fancy

Dress!
att i Rockbridge County's ONLY
Natural Foods Store
More than

Just a Gift Shop...

110 W. Washington

 

 

463-6954
21 Nelson Street, West Visit
. SPROUTS
Downtown Lexington NATURAL DELI
463-7222 for Breakfast or Lunch

 

 

    
   
 
    

22 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

464-5880

$2.00 Off Haircuts
w/Student ID
Manicures $7.00

Fancy Dress Special

Rockbridge Food Co-op's a

 

Member & Senior Discount Daily
10-6 Mon-Fri 11-4 Sat

 

Spring Break to Florida
Beaches, Daytona, or Pan-
g ama City... only $139.

a today!

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

A Flowers

 

C Hair-woops!

gp He he SO UF Aa ARE RE A SO
Space is limited! Call CMI

@

g

1 (800) 423-5264 i

F ccmeinbeenentnestneenileneiemnilinianad

George’s Hairstylist

Fancy Dress Check List
i Tux

(4 Dinner reservations

Redken Nexus, Paul Mitchel, Sebastian

The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1992

Many decry Columbus' treatment of native groups

 

v COLUMBUS continued from page 1

 

logs, one in which he underreported the dis-
tance the ships made each day so as not to alarm
the sailors and to keep the real route a secret.

Writer Hans Koning accuses Colum-
bus of the genocide of the New World Indians
and their environment, saying Columbus cre-
ated a cruel slave trade of Indians between
Spain and the island of Hispaniola. In Colum-
bus: His Enterprise, Koning cites instances in
which Indians had their hands chopped off if
they failed to meet the gold dust quota. The
Spaniards had so totally pacified the Indians,
he said, that one could take any Indian woman
and do with her as he pleased.

Gates contends, “It’s safe to say he
never saw it that way,” citing Columbus role as
a crusader as well as a seeker of honor and
wealth.

Regardless, Columbus became and
embarrassment to the crown as detailas of the
Spaniard atrocities reached Spain, according

  
 
 

 

 

 

  
 

 

Open 7 Days

 

 
 

   

 

463-3106
F.D. Party Needs

ing shopper!
Have a great Weekend!

 

 

WHINE FRONT

Stop by and see us for all your

We have a complete line of fresh meats and produce, imported
and domestic beverages and cheeses for the most discriminat-

167 S. Main St.

Flasks
Ray-Bans

 
   
 

 

 

 

 

ee

Thomas C. Bradshaw Ill

ic

™

    

1-HOUR

FANCY DRESS

SHOE FIXERS

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satir: shoes dyed in 1 hr.

Kelly’s Corner

On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington

All Of Your Fancy Dress
and'Party Supplies
At The Best Prices.

As Always, We Provide The
Best Service For The W&L Community

Aluin-@ennis

Tuxedos For Sale and Rental
Fancy Cummerbund Sets

   
 

to writer David Gelman.

“Under his stewardship, the first per-
manent Spanish settlement in the New World
became so cruel and chaotic that he was re-
turned to Europe in chains,” Gates elaborated.

Although King Ferdinand pardoned
Columbus more than 500 years ago, some dis-
pute the legitimacy of his actions more vehe-
mently than ever. Koning and many others
plead for a less “Eurocentric” world history
than what is currently taught in classrooms.

Some fear that the controversy cur-
rently surrounding the passing quincentennial
and a demand for retribution by those whose
ancestors may have been wronged by the Span-
iards will create a backlash in our historical
perceptions.

“So now, in reaction to it, comes the
manufacture of its opposite myth,” Time writer
Robert Hughes said. “European man, once the
hero of the conquest of Americas, now be-
comes its demon; and the victims, who cannot
be brought back to life, are sanctified.”

 
       
   
        
     
 

464-6666

Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

Mock Convention Ties
W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars & Leashes

Since 1963

Student Charge Accounts Available

463-5383

 

This stamp, issu

 

Scott No. 982

issued in 1949, makes a great momento of Washington

  

 

PHOTO

Photographist
Frame Shop
KIS Mini Lab

Western Union - coe Fax
United Parcel - Posters Mounted

7 North Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450

@ ip "
sGatiemel?, Dining

Reservations Recommended
(703) 366-2444

 

 

 

For all of your party & S a
wedding essentials

latware *Servingware —_« Silver
hina * Chafing Dishes +» Glassware
* Coffee Urns + Party Canopies «+ Portable Ba
* Bridal Arches + Disposables * Chairs
* Tables * Candelabra * Trays
& + Punch Bowls - Skirting * Coolers

* Folding Tables + Champagne Fountains

We have beautiful wedding invitations and a complete line of
accessories to fit any wedding theme and every price range.
Stop by today and see our complete line —

by Carlson Capi

U.S. Hwy. 11 North + Lexington, VA 24450
Robert Hutman — Monday-Saturday 9:30 to 5:30

_

 

wee
al

 

and Lee. Or a nice touch used (with 26° additional postage) on gradu-
ation announcements.
We have a large stock of mint stamps and of first day covers which
were cancelled in Lexington on the day of issue.

Singles 25°

Plate Blocks (4) $1.25

Full Panes (50) $10.50

First Day Covers $1.00 to $3.25

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES
31 South Main Street, Lexington 463-3355

 

 

 

 

‘lorist to The Homestead

Classy boutonnieres and corsages
for fancy tuxedos and dresses.
Ten East Nelson / 463-9841

 

 

Marlene s Hairstylist & Sannery
Totally Marlene’s!

Let us give you the look
you want for FD.

All facets of hairstyling, from
cuts to up-do’s for evening.
Visit our Tanning Bed

 

Special on Manicures

Regularly $10 - $7 with student ID
or ask about our Acrylic Nails

 

 

 

25 N. Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450
703 463-6003

2131 Magnolia Avenue
Buena Vista, VA 24416
703 261-2420

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1992

 

 

SPORTS

Page 7

 

 

 

Molloy pitches Generals to split

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Staff Reponer

 

It was a Jekyll and Hyde week
for the Washington and Lee baseball
team.

On Saturday, the Generals split
a double-header with Randolph-
Macon. They lost the opener 14-5,
and then rebounded in the finale, 3-1.
The team then took on the Bridge-
water Eagles Monday and were
soundly defeated 13-5.

Head Coach Jeff Stickley said
he wasn’t disappointed with the up-
and-down play.

‘We're not down or disap-
pointed with the losses. We were
close in the first game against Rand-
olph-Macon and we played very well
in the second,” said Stickley.

In the first game, the Generals
fell behind 6-0 after three innings.
The Generals scored five runs in the
fifth to close the gap to one.

115 S. Main St., Lexington

However, R-MC exploded in the
seventh for eight runs and won 14-5,

In the night-cap, sophomore
Tim Molloy pitched a seven-hit, one
run game, and powered the Generals
to a 3-1 win.

Molloy limited the Yellow
Jackets to all singles, while striking
out six. It was the best pitching per-
formance by a Generals pitcher this
year.

‘I pitched really well from start
to finish,’’ said Molloy. ‘‘Plus, the
defense played great and that made it
much easier.’’

Senior T.J. Daly homered in the
second to open the scoring. Junior
John Hesse had the game-winner with
an RBI single in the fourth. Freshman
Duane Van Arsdale closed out the
scoring with a round-tripper in the
sixth,

Van Arsdale’s homer was his
fourth this year, the most by a Gener-
al since 1989. He upped his slugging

Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture

463-2742

LEXINGTON
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bidg.)

Let us Dress you Fancy
For the Ball or Casual
For the Parties!
Every Day Low Prices! ©
AlwaysatTGIF! —

LEXINGTON
HOURS: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30

 

CLASSICS

 

percentage to .913. Daly’s 5-for-6
performance raised his average to
.400 on the season.

’ The Generals’ roller coaster
week closed with a 13-5 loss to the
Eagles. Again, the Generals fell
behind early and couldn’t catch up.

BC pounded out seven runs on
seven hits in the first two innings and
never looked back. They added six
more runs in the later innings and
won comfortably. The loss highlight-
ed the Generals’ biggest concern thus
far.

“‘Our biggest problem is getting
out of the first inning without being
behind,”’ said Stickley. ‘‘It’s a totally
different ball game when we're
behind. We can’t be aggressive and
play our game.”’

“However, by playing these
good teams our young pitchers are
learning to pitch. I think they’ll come
around soon and pitch steady from
the first inning on,”’ he said.

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 

 

 

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team won its
first three matches of the spring
season.

The Generals beat Hollins
9-0, 22nd-ranked Denison 5-4
and Virginia Wesleyan 9-0 on
Saturday. W&L is ranked 23rd.

The Generals are now 6-3
and 3-0 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

Junior Claire Dudley com-
peted at the NCAA Division III
swimming championships last
weekend, but did not qualify for
the final heats of her races. The
Athletics Promotions Committee
announced the winners from last
weekend’s contests. Dasha
Hermosilla won a beach hat
from University Sportwear at
the track meet, and Beth Prov-
anzania won the Domino’s
Pizza coupon at the tennis
match.

 

 

 

CHINESE
RESTAURANT

Authentic Chinese Cuisine
Luncheon Specials * Extensive Dinner Menu
Beer * Wine * Exotic Cocktails
Catering Available

Sunday Buffet 11:30 A.M. - 3:00 P.M.

a cm GARDEN

Complete Carry-Out Menu

“463-3330

. . | eS

 

 

 

 

8 North Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

BAKERY

 

AN OLD FASHIONED BAKERY
EAT IN OR TAKE OuT

703-463-5691

Golfers start season strong; rally
to finish seventh in S.C. Classic

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee golf
team took to the links for the first
time this season and picked up right
where they left off last year.

At the Gordin Collegiate Clas-
sic, W&L rallied on the final day of
competition to finish seventh.

‘I’m happy with the finish,”’
said Coach Buck Leslie. ‘‘We were
ninth after two days and thought we
could pick up three or four spots. We
managed to pick up two, and I felt
better after that.’’

W&L was led by senior all-
american Jay McKnight. McKnight
shot a three-round total of 239.

Senior Cliff Burrow had a
strong weekend as well, finishing
second for W&L.

“Cliff played really well at
Nationals last year considering the

SERVIITAR.
LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 South Main St., Lexington, VA 24450

 

WM. L. HESS, Jr.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Stonewall Square

 

SP
SUNDAY SPECIALS
Rent 2 movies, get 1 FREE
Nintendo rentals only 99
JUST IN: Country Music T-Shirts $14.99
Garth Brooks, Travis Tritt, Kenny Rogers

New Movies This Week
The Doctor
Other People’s Money
Fievel Goes West
and many more
Mastercharge & Visa Accepted

 

463-9800

 

 

 

For Your 1991 Fancy Dress TUXEDOS

*Rent for $48.00 Basic
$52.00 Full Dress

*Buy for $235 - Including Free

No Deposit Charge

Tux Shirt

(And Never Have To Rent Again)

COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

111 W. Nelson St.

Visa

 

A nationally recognized artist, 303 White Street miles Rt. 60 East. July 1,
will be at Original Frameworks 1992 to June 30, 1993.
WALK TO CAMPUS
ynurecey, marc S|
19 FIRST MONTH’S RENT FREE J] Tages
musical needs”

from

  
   
 
  

   
   
 
   
   
   
 
   

THE PARK VIEW

Have 2A Loren Fancy Dress

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal
A large selection of Gift Items

pressure he was under, and he didn’t
play that much last year,”’ said Leslie.
‘*He hasn’t had that much experience.
He played well to say the least.”

Leslie feels that despite the
strong showing, W&L still has some
work to do to defend their Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference title and
retum to nationals for the third
straight year. :

“The ODAC is going to be
tough,’” he said. ‘‘We’ve definitely
got our work cut out for us. Guiford
is a tough team, and everyone in the
ODAC is improved. Greensboro is
also tough in our region if we have
tournament hopes.”’

Leslie says the team has simple
goals, and if they stick to the basics,
everything should fall into place.
“We can’t think nationals first,”’
Leslie said. ‘‘That will get you in
trouble. You can never forget what’s
immediately in front of you.”’

463-2242

   
     
      

  

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

 

 
          

 

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

20% Discount on all
non-sale items to students”

(703) 463-1620

11 £. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
VISA,MC, AMEX

Excellent Selection of Fresh Flowers

463-4521
DAILY DELIVERIES

US Rt. 11 N, .7 miles past Wal-Mart
Call 1-800-231-1119 for Fresh Flowers at great prices

 

 

 
 

on

ca : meal
FOR RENT:

 

4 bedroom, 2 baths. 12

 

  
   
 
       
   
      
    
  
   
   
 

  

4 Bedrooms
4-6 p.m. $250/Bedroom
He will be signing his newly
released, limited edition
print entitled “Christian
Patriots”. Refreshments

will be served.

CARTTEWORUS
paTL

MUSEUM QUALITY CUSTOM PICTURE FRAMING
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5:30 p.m.

ROCKBRIDGE

Kitchens include dishwasher, disposal and microwave
Bedrooms wired for cable and telephone service
Common laundry room and snack room
Steel entrance doors with deadbolts
Full sprinkler system throughout

Automatic grounds lighting

24-hour emergency service
Smoke detector

“Christian Patrio

sai William Maughan. Other prints by
Maughan are “Christian Ge

neral” and “Prayer Warrior’.

 

When Fancy Dress is over,
Rockbridge Music will still
be here, willing to cater to
all your musical needs.

  

BAKER REAL ESTATE
Contact Cindy Zollman - 463-7319

Diana Madsen Schofield
205 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Phone (703) 463-5455

CALL TODAY!

4 East Washington Street, Lexington, VA 464-6464

 

 

 

 
 

 

Men’s Tennis -

Baseball -

Golf -

 

This week’s scores:

Track - vs. Bridgewater, EMC
|. JMU, Emory, DC
Women’s Lacrosse - W&L 13, R-MC 3
Wa&L 5-3, R-MC 14-1
Men's Lacrosse - W&L 19, VWC 3
7th at Gordin Classic

 

 

PAGE 8

S

Che Ring-tum Phi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK

 

Baseball -

Golf -

 

Next week’s games:
Men's Lacrosse - 3/21 v. Gettysburg
Women’s Lacrosse- 3/19 h. RC, 3/21 MWC
3/21 (h) vs. E&H (2)
Men's Tennis - 3/21 (h) Wooster
Women’s Tennis - 3/20 (h) vs. R-MWC
3/20 at ODAC/Roanoke

 

 

MARCH 19, 1992

Wa&L lacrosse teams reach crucial stretch

Streaking Generals look to
overcome Roanoke’s mystique

 

By JACOB KIMBALL
Phi Staff Reporter

 

“It’s exciting, Everybody likes
to win, and we are having fun win-
ning.”’

Coach Jan Hathorn said that is
how Washington and Lee’s women’s
lacrosse team is feeling as they con-
tinue the best start in school history.
Randolph-Macon was the latest vic-
tim. W&L won 13-3 Saturday to raise
its record to 4-0.

Angie Carrington led the fun
this time. She scored four goals and
handed out two assists. Lisa Dowling
netted three goals and added two
assists, Kim Bishop scored two goals
and dished out four assists and
Whitney Hopkins finished with two
goals and an assist.

Jennifer Donaldson anchored a
tenacious defense. She had six saves.

‘They are strong skill wise,
they show good spirit, and they work
really hard,’’ Hathorn said.

The hard work has paid off
early for three freshmen who start.
Carrie Niederer has played a key role
for the stingy defense, while Nicole
Ripken and Lindsay Coleman have
been a force offensively.

‘All the freshmen show great
potential, and I look forward to us
improving as a group over the next
four years,’ said Coleman, who starts
and scored two goals on Saturday.

The next test for the Generals’
spotless record is defending Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference champion
Roanoke, which has also opened the
season undefeated at 2-0.

“There is a lot of emotion
surrounding this game,’’ Hathorn
said. ‘‘There is a certain mystique
about never having beaten them. It

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, W&L

 

 

The freshmen class has played

a key role in the team’s quick start. | want to win.”’

has become a big deal,

we really

 

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Sports Editor

 

For the Washington and Lee track teams, the first
outdoor meet of the season brought home high marks
from the respective coaches.

The women’s team defeated both Eastern
Mennonite and Bridgewater, and the men’s team came
in second to Bridgewater while beating Eastern
Mennonite.

‘I thought we had a chance to win the meet,”’
said men’s coach Norris Aldridge, ‘‘but I’m pleased
with the way we performed.”

‘The meet was what I expected,’’ said women’s
coach John Tucker. ‘‘I saw competitiveness and good
performances. I was real pleased.”’

The best performance of the day came from
freshman Kim Herring in the 4-by-400 relay team.

‘She ran the third leg, and by the time she got
the baton, we trailed by 30 to 40 yards,’’ Tucker said.
‘‘Not only did she make up all the ground, she opened

 

Herring stars in first outdoor meet

up a 20 yard lead, and we were able to hold on to win
the race.”’

Herring also won the 400-meter, the 1500-meter
and the 5,000-meter runs.

‘*What it all boiled down to,’’ said Tucker, ‘
that Kim Herring put on a show.”’

Freshman Sarah Gilbert also was a triple winner
for the Generals. She won the high jump, the triple
jump and the long jump.

Herring’s performance overshadowed sophomore
Wendy Neel’s run in the 100-meter dash. She set a
school-record of 13.1 seconds despite finishing second.

On the men’s side, sophomore Robert Miggins
walked off the basketball court and won the high jump
with a leap of 6-feet-4.

‘*Miggins has a lot of ability to be a good high
jumper,”’ Aldridge said. ‘‘He needs to get the form
down.”’

Junior Bo Hannah won twice, winning the 1500-
and 5000-meter runs. Jim Henry, David Martin and
Scott Covey also won events for W&L.

‘was

 

reer

 

 

“A fer [ plugged
itin everything
clicked for me?”

Lisa Dowling moves upfield in W&L’s win over Sweet Briar.
Dowling is W&L’s leading scorer with 13 goals and 6 assists.

Men’s comeback attempt falls
just short against Roanoke

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Sports Editor

 

The W&L men’s lacrosse team
had one of those games Saturday.

The Generals played about as
well as they could play against Roa-
noke College, but that wasn’t quite
good enough.

“‘We played one hell of a
game,”’ said coach Jim Stagnitta after
Roanoke topped W&L 14-11. ‘‘They
are definitely one of the best three or
four teams in the nation.”’

WA&L trailed 10-6 in the fourth
quarter before mounting a furious
rally.

John Hunter, Wiemi Douoguih,
Colin Higgins and Jeff Roberts scored
to cut the lead to 11-10 with three
minutes left, but Roanoke scored
twice to kill the W&L’s rally.

““The bottom line was they were
deeper and more athletic, and we still
could have won the game,”’ said

Tennis finds road trip

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Staff Reporter

At the beginning of the season,
the ultimate goal for the Washington
and Lee men’s tennis team was to
make the Division III national tourna-
ment.

This past week the Generals got a
taste of what tournament competition
will be like.

After jumping out to a 4-0 record,
the Generals went 1-3 this week and
dropped to 5-3 on the season, 4-0 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference. The three losses were at the
hands of Division I schools James
Madison and Davidson, and Emory,

FLORIST

the ranked 6th-ranked team in Div-
ision III.

“‘We played well against all
three,’’ said senior Richard Yates.
“*However, we just couldn’t come up
with the big points to win.”’

Thursday the Generals entertained
JMU and came out on the short end
of a 6-3 score. It was the first loss for
the Generals and their first against a
Division I opponent.

W&L didn’t get any reprieve as
they went on a weekend road trip to
Emory and Davidson. The Generals
lost the opener on Saturday to Emory,
7-2. Wes Ruggles got one of the
points by upsetting 24th-ranked Col-
lin White at fourth singles 6-4, 6-4.

The Professional Florist for FANCY DRESS
Corsages & Flowers! Don’t settle for less when
you can have the best... at

UNIVERSITY FLORIST

463-6080

165 S. Main St.
Next to White Front Grocery

 

Stagnitta. ‘‘If we had shot well, we
would have won the game.”’

W&L got three goals from
Roberts, Higgins and Douoguih,
Roberts also had three assists. Senior
Coleman Devlin made 19 saves in
goal for the Generals.

One thing Stagnitta was ex-
tremely proud of was the fan support.

‘*That was the biggest thing for
us,’’ he said. ‘‘To get that kind of
support on the road meansa lot to the
kids.”’

Wednesday, the Generals routed
Virginia Wesleyan 19-3. Roberts had
three goals and three assists to lead a
balanced attack. David Schimingey
and Andy Dutton each scored three
goals.

The seventh-ranked Generals, 4+
3 and 3-1 in the ODAC, take on No,
3 Gettysburg Saturday night at
Lexington High School’s Brewbake#
Field at 7 p.m.

,

““We were happy with our play
against Emory,”’ said assistant coach
Gavin Colliton. ‘‘We just couldn’t
win the big points, and that’s the key.
factor in any match.”’

The Generals got a break Tuesday:
as they made a short trip over the
mountain to Lynchburg. They took
out their frustrations, blanking the:
Hornets 9-0.

The Generals will be challenged
again Saturday when nationally-ran-
ked Wooster pays a visit. Colliton,
says this is going to be a key test for’
the Generals. ‘

““We want to prove how good we
are, and if we want to make the tour-
nament we need to beat them.”’

 

=<

won|

 

 

 

 

 

qudiotronics| Bs,

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY ES

ADCOM ALPINE y
MONSTER OPTONICA 7
KEF Cwbd

BOSTON DEFINITIVE 4
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS i
* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667 |.

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Please join us to celebrate
ft Professor Dabney Stuart’s
; new book of stories

Sweet Lucy Wine ,
3:00 p.m. to4:30 p.m. }

Washington & Lee University
_Bookstore

March 25

If you never thou it
anything that started vik IBM oud
be easy to use, an IBM Personal System will
change all that. With preloaded, user-friendly
software like Microsoft® Windows™ 3.0, just
turn it on and you'll be ready to work—polish -
ing off term papers, moving text and graphics
with the click of a mouse. Work can be—fun.
IBM offers a variety of Selected Academic
Solutions*—a range of PS/2® and PS/1™
models to choose from. And with special ry
dent prices and affordable loan payments*

 

they’ re even easy to buy. Act
now and you'll get a special Bonus Packt worth
over $1 000 in savings on air travel, phone
calls, software and more. You probably didn’t
expect that, cither. Well,
you learn something new

   
 
 
    

every dav. After all, isn’t
that what college is all

 

about? Visit your campus

I have to wear ?
A TUX?

../Vo problems!

outlet to find out how to
makean!IBMPersonal , ,
System click for you.  eiescssmcucstamammmmame

CAMPUS CONTAC’
MIKE SANDRIDGE

463-5295 e3

*Thus offer is available to nonprofit higher education institutions, thew students, faculty and staff, as well as to nonprofit K-12 institutions, thei faculty and staff

= oe

University Cleaners

Has a wide selection of
Tuxedos for rent.

 

  
     

  

*. ® ‘
These IBM Selected Academic Solutions are available through participating campus outlets, (BM Authorized PC Dealers certified to remarket Selected Academic | ni véE CS it
Solutions or 18M 1 800 222-7257 Orders are subject to availability and IBM may withdraw the offer at any time without notice **PS/2 Loan tor Learning lets
you borrow $1,500:$8,000. t The Bonus Pack expires December 31, 1991. IBM and PS/2 are registered trademarks and PS/1 is a trademark of international
Business Machines Corporation. Microsoft is a registered trademark and Windows is a trademark of Microsott Corporation © 1991 IBM Corp ¢ a { | ( rs

 

 

 

 

 

 

463-3622

 

 
i 5 —
ee eo

 

  

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Theme celebrates the dawn of an era

 

By PAMELA KELLEY
a Phi Associate Editor

 

The moment of discovery is
upon us. Finally, the long-awaited
‘announcement of 85th annual Fancy
Dress Ball theme: ‘‘A Return Voy-
age to the Age of Exploration.”’
‘This year’s theme reflects a
world-wide celebration of the dawn-
ing of a new age in travel, as well as
‘technology and culture, which his-
<torians say began 500 years ago.

é

INDIA NOVIS

s

By the time the expected 2500
guests enter the Warner Center
March 27th, more than 200 people
will have contributed to FD’s organi-
zation. Almost $80,000 and hundreds
of man-hours will have been expend-
ed to retrace the journeys of the
most famous mariner of the millenni-
um, Christopher Columbus.

The travels of Columbus provid-
ed the link that joined forever two
worlds previously separated both
geographically and culturally.

[HOMEWARD >

   
 

20ct
22Jan.

The age of Everyman
‘Columbus was just one slice of life in 1492

 

By JENNIFER ZAMBONE
Special to the Phi

 

Columbus’ voyage wasn’t all
‘that happened in 1492.
t ¢ Lorenzo de Medici died at age
43 in his city of Florence. His grand-
‘son, the prince of Machiavelli’s The
,Prince, was bor later in the year.
Niccold Machiavelli himself was 23.
¢ Leonardo da Vinci was living
in Milan, engaged mostly in writing
on scientific topics, unaware that in
‘three years he would be asked to
paint a fresco in a nearby convent on
a suitably religious subject.

¢ Ferdinand and Isabella of
Spain had better things to do than
worry about a Genoese sailor. Per-
‘suaded by the Inquisition leader, they
.expelled all Jews from Spain. Their
determined campaign to expel the
‘Moors from Spain triumphed when

they captured Granada.

¢ Charles VIII of France paid
the price of peace with England’s
Henry VII and two years later started
war by invading Italy.

* English theater crowds were
being wowed by a new upbeat play,
Everyman. The literate were delving
into works more or less hot off the
press, including Le Morte D’ Arthur,
published just seven years before.

¢ Italy topped France in fashion,
as the Spanish chose Italian comfort
over French design.

* Genoese-turned-Englishman
John Cabot (Giovanni Caboto) was
looking for funds to finance a trans-
Atlantic expedition. Two years later
Caboto landed in Newfoundland,
which he determined to be the north-
ern coast of China.

Jennifer Zambone is editor of
the Journal of Science.

Columbus did not set out to
locate a ‘‘New World.”’ Instead, he
sought a quick route to China and
the Spice Islands which would yield
gold and treasures untold, as well as
ready converts to Christianity. Yet in
1492 he stumbled into the Caribbean
Islands of Cuba and Hispaniola
while in search of a route from
Spain to Asia by way of the Atlantic
Ocean

Washington and Lee’s celebra-
tion will reconstruct much of the fact

 

 

 

 

 

 

and ‘‘fancy’’ that has created the
legend of Christopher Columbus.

Perhaps Newsweek, in its own
special Columbus edition, expressed
the spirit with which W&L’s event
will be held:

“Only imagination can bring us
close to him: So put yourself in his
shoes.... at last your dream comes
true. They’ve given you your ships,
the winds are favorable, you reach
the land you always knew would be
there...

G

—\

S$ Feb

3 G__G

29 Sept.

22 Sepe 15 Sept.

9 Sepr.

 

 

By RICK PELTZ
Phi Editor

In 1492 Columbus sailed the ocean blue, but
historians agree on little else, as tall tales have
mixed fact with fancy over the last five centuries.

Genoese Cristoforo Colombo was probably
born in the fall of 1451 to Spanish-Jewish parents.
As a young man he took to the sea in commercial
ventures by age 14.

By age 30 Columbus was an accomplished sail-
or, and images of China’s splendor, the fame of
Marco Polo, Ptolemy’s exaggerated geographical
assertions, and the Scriptures soon spurred him to
sail westward. He deduced that China lay about
west, about a third the actual to the New World.

Rejected in Portugal, Columbus made an explo-
ration proposal to Spain in 1486, but a war against
the Moors persisted in draining royal coffers. When
the war ended in January, 1492, Columbus’ follow-
ing at court swayed Queen Isabella to his cause.

Educated people in 1492 already guessed the
earth to be round, so Columbus probably did not
need to convince the Spanish monarchs. Columbus
was given the rough equivalent to $14,000 for the
voyage, a relatively low budget operation.

In September, 1492, three ships, the Nifia,
Pinta and Santa Maria, the latter carrying Colum-
bus, weighed anchor from the Canary Islands.
Within one month, sailors on the Santa Maria,

 

 

Columbus, by the 16th-century artist Lotto

frustrated by repeated false sightings of land,
demanded that Columbus turn back.

Two days later, a lookout on the Pinta sighted
land by night, probably Watling Island in today’s
Bahamas. When day broke, he and a party went
ashore and planted the Spanish flag on the coast.

There is little doubt Columbus believed during

 

his first voyage that he was in the East. His writ-
ings make mention of sending a delegation to meet
China’s Great Khan.

On return to Spain, Columbus was showered
with attention and promised another voyage.

Columbus again traveled westward in 1493,
1498 and 1502. In the summer of 1498, Columbus
landed on the South American mainland. That
voyage seemed to give him his first indication that
he was in a new world.

“T believe that this is a very large mainland, of
which, until today, we have had no knowledge,”’
Columbus wrote, according to Lorenzo Camusso.

Columbus’ latter voyages did not give him as
much fame as the first. He carried the first mass of
colonists to the West with his second voyage,
bringing with them the plants, domesticated ani-
mals, food, and of course diseases of Europe that
would forever change the face of the West. But he
was not an exceptional governor, and fighting
among colonists and New World natives, and
general lawlessness were rampant problems. As the
result of one insurrection, he was returned to Spain
in chains, humiliated and frustrated.

With failing health in the first years of the 16th
century, Columbus negotiated with Spain’s King
Ferdinand for the explorer’s share of trade profits,
according to Camusso. In 1504, a rich but arthritic
and embittered Columbus died in Spain, not fully
cognizant of the scope of his accomplishments.

 

a

‘ pes
G . oe Te
A ; Pe Rs ER

   
   
   

uh f
NY Fo Fey
> Abe

 
      
  

2
~

 

1492, Christopher Columbus cros-
ses the Atlantic. A small colony
left at La Navidad will be wiped
- Out before Columbus returns.

1497,
boto,

 

Exploring the Globe

Newfoundland, discovering the New
World for the British — even if it looked wry
like China’s northern coast at first. >,

 
  
  

Venetian navigator Giovanni Ca-
a.k.a. John Cabot, lands at

2 1499. Italian Amerigo

 Vespuccio reaches South

9: America and realizes it’s
not China’s east coast.

2

 

 

 

cr

 

 

——
~~ 1513. Spanish explorer Vasco Nufiez de”
Balboa beholds the Pacific Ocean. It’s a==—~
long way to China. "

— = =

aS

 

sailing south.

1487. Portugese navigator Bartholomeu
Dias becomes the first European to sail
to the Cape of Good Hope at the
Southern tip of Africa, indicating it
might be possible to reach the East by

 

1498. Portugese Vasco da
Gama embarks on Dias’
southern route, and he
reaches India.

1507, German mapmaker Martin
Waldseemuller produces a world
map that includes the “Ameri-
cas,’ named for Vespucci.

 

“iN 1522. A ship from Ferdi-
| nand Magellan’s expedi-

 

 

 
 

 

Blues Traveller Headlines Thursday

Six bands highlight
three days of FD

WEDNESDAY:
9:00 p.m. - In the General Headquar-
ters.

The Kingpins, an eight-
member soul and rhythm and blues
band, will kick off Fancy Dress week,
playing Top 40 venues as well as
Motown sounds and their own stuff.

THURSDAY:
9:00 p.m. - In the Student Activities
Pavilion.

Kindred Spirit will open
for Blues Traveler. The blues and
rock quartet have been touring for
five weeks with their fellow New
Yorkans to play in cities like Phila-
delphia, Concord and Daytona Beach.

Blues Traveler will head-
line the show. The New York-based
quartet’s music is best described as a
blend of blues, jazz, psychedelia and
rock.

FRIDAY:
9:00 p.m.

The Pat Curtis Orchestra
will lead this year’s FD waltzes in the

Publicity photo

The four-member Blues Traveler will perform at the Pavilion Thursday

night. The concert begins at 9 p.m.

Warner Center. The 16-member
swing band, has played behind such
figures as Rosemary Clooney, Danny
Thomas and Shirley McClane.

The Itals will open for The
Band in Doremus Gymnasium. The
reggae trio formed in Jamaica in 1976.

They performed at W&L last year.

The Band will take center
stage soon after. The group has been
wowing audiences since 1968 with
its unique blend of country, rhythm
and blues kind of classic rock since
1968.

A Phi interview with FD Chairman Vallotton

Q: Why do you think this theme trans-
lates well for Fancy Dress?

A: This theme was chosen in order to
celebrate the centennial celebration
of Christopher Columbus’ discovery
of the New World. Because it has
never been done before, we thought
it was particularly appropriate to
choose it as this year’s theme.

Q: How much money is being spent?
Explain the budget...

A: The budget for this year’s ball is
$75,900, the majority of which is
spent on the bands and the decora-
tions. All of the money comes from
the memorabilia sales the week be-
fore the ball.

Q: What other themes were consid-
ered?

A: The other top choices were
Casablanca, Mardi Gras, Graceland,

Wild West, Dr. Suess and Alice in
Wonderland.

Q: What’s you most difficult duty?
A: My most difficult duty is trying to
please every- fF .
one. I have to
make ex-
tremely diffi-
cult decisions
sometimes and
people are not
always happy
with what 1 de- Us
cide. However, Vallotton
I think through my decisions very
carefully, and in the end, hopefully
everything will turn out all right.

Q: What are your responsibilities?
A: My responsibilities are to oversee
the whole process. I have to manage
200 people, make sure we keep under

   

budget on everything, follow through
on all the decoration orders, etc.

Q: What will be done differently this
year?

A: This year we hired a contractor to
construct most of the difficult deco-
rations. Also, as has been publicized,
cut the playbill, as well as the fire
works,

Q: Did you have any goals for FD?
A: I have had lots of goals this year
for Fancy Dress, such as maintaining
organization, keeping under budget
and managing my time wisely. My
most important goal, however, is to
have fun. If I have fun,then it is con-
veyed to everyone else on the com-
mittee. It has a sort of snowball ef-
fect, in that they also seen to enjoy
what they are doing, and the entire
process runs more smoothly.

 

   

 

FD Ball’s status
has traveled full
circle since 1907

 

By PAMELA KELLEY
Phi Associate Editor

night concert boasted a separate theme from the stodgy
Inauguration: ““Love-In 69.”

 

Washington and Lee’s first official Fancy Dress
Ball wasn’t as elaborate as some over the last 85 years,
which have featured camels, elephants, train cars, and
spotlights. In contrast to the thousands of dollars spent

on Fancy Dress today,
$42 left over from a the-
ater production proceeds
funded the first gala, held
in 1907.

Annie Jo Rob-
ertson White, the college
librarian and drama club
president, used the
money to decorate the
old gymnasium for a
masked ball. Admission
price for the ball was free,
although costumes cost
about $2. An orchestra
from VMI played all the
latest two-steps.

According to
thenext week's Ring-tum
Phi, “About 40 couples
and 50 stags partici-
pated.”

The 20s and 30s
marked the ball’s hey-
day, with thousands of
people in attendance. The
Ball was professionally
decorated and received
national attention. The
band made its national
debut when it was broad-
cast live via Walter
Winchell and the Lucky

Library file
Annie Jo White, the founder of Fancy Dress
Strike Radio Network hookup. Newspapers from New
York to Texarcana reported on it. The biggest jazz
bands and orchestras of the day, such as Count Basie,
Duke Ellington and Benny Goodman played at the Ball.
The 1969 bali boasted “psychedelic
music anda professional light show.” The Fancy Dress
Committee offered the languid theme of “‘An Inaugu-
ration Ball,” not in honor of a United States president, or
a mythical Egyptian tyrant, but rather for new Wash-
ington and Lee President Robert Huntley. The Saturday

  

VMI cadets wait in the stag line at an early FD. '

For the next four years FD was replaced by
similar concerts put on by the Allman Brothers, Sha-
Na-Naand Billy Preston. The 1971 Dance Board chair-
man informed the EC that there would not be a ball
“because of a greatly reduced budget and past history of

Pavilion.” Similar parties that weekend might have
given birth to the headline that graced the 1976 Fancy
Dress edition of The Ring-tumPhi, “Fancy Dress Week-
end arrives; University braces for hangover.” ,

Although similar sentiments about the spirit |,
of the ball have pervaded through the 80’s, into the
90’s, its proportions have once again exceeded any
expectation “Miss Annie” might have had, withthemes_ | *
such as A Diamond Jubilee on its 75th anniversary and | ,
Lost Cities of Gold and Gatsby's Great Gala.

 

Life photo

student disinterest.”
Onealumnus wrotethat |!
“for the old grad from},
General Lee’s college
it is the most shattering
break with the past since
the Generals dropped |,
out of big time foot-
ball.”

But Fancy |{*
Dress would rise again.
By the mid 1970s Fancy
Dress had returned to
its roots as the finest |’
party inthe South. 1974
ended the absence of
what had once been
deemed, “the South’s |*
outstanding collegiate
event,” with a black-tie
Mardi Gras ball. Cos-
tumes, however, be-
camea thing of the past.
. Unlike earlier years the
main dance was held in
Fairfax lounge, Evans |;
Dining Hall, and the
Cockpit. In 1976, the
Phi noted that the festi-
val was kicked off |,
Thursday night in the
“simply yet elegantly
decorated Zollman’s |'

 

 

 

 

 

The Santa Maria

   
    
    

Indian

res

Charted Path
to Fancy Dress

   

 

 

Fancy Dress decor requires .
research and imagination |

 

By PAMELA KELLEY
Phi Associate Editor

The Wamer Center and Dore-
mus Gymnasium will be elaborately
decorated to transport FD- goers back
to the age of Columbus and the na-
tives he encountered. Each comer will
be transformed to recreate an impor-
tant scene in either the Old World or
the New.

This year’s nine FD decorations
chairmen have researched their pro-
jects thoroughly to create scenes that
are as authentic and beautiful as pos-
sible.

Upon approaching the Ball
along a torch-lined walkway, one will
see a large tapestry of copper, teal
and plum, this year’s FD colors,
adorning the entranceway.

The center’s hallway will entice
all to chose to enter either the Old
World or the New. On the right, will
be ten-foot columns reminiscent of
15th century Italian architecture,
while parallel to them on the left wall
of the hallway will be palm trees
signalling the close proximity of the
tropics, where Columbus landed.

To the right, the columns will
lead into Doremus Gymnasium,
which will be decorated as Ferdi-
nand’s and Isabella’s throne room in
which Columbus’ voyages were com-
missioned and where he told them of

   
 

Tickets/Memorobilia
Sales

Next Week

in the University Center

the new lands he had captured for the’
crown. Costumed mannequins will be
placed in the thrones.

Across the way, in the New
World will lie examples of what,
Columbus must have seen as he land-
ed. An Indian village, with grass and’
mud huts and totem poles, which,
were characteristic of area tribes of
the period, will rest on the Warner’
Center balcony. Perhaps inhabitants,
of such dwellings gave Columbus
some of the new plants and animals’
he eventually took back to Spain.

To the left will be a crumbling
Indian temple draped with moss. On’
each side of the temple, will be mu-
rals, as well as palm trees and plants.

One of the largest attractions of
the ball is sure to be the ceiling-high
replica of Columbus’ ship Santa
Maria in the far right corner of the:
Warner Center. The ship was blue-
printed and constructed by members
of the W&L theater department.

In the Warner Center’s far left,
comer will be a recreation of Colum-
bus’ study, as well as instruments
such as maps and an astrolabe, which
he might have used to chart his
course.

Meanwhile, the modern-day
strains of a swing band as well as
reggae and classic rock will entertain
as the ceiling above poses as a twin-
kling Caribbean sky.

 
 

 

Page by Pamela Kelley, The Ring-tum Phi

 
