THE UNIVERSITY LIBRAR

A

WASHINGTON & LIEBE LINNABRSITY

TWOTON, VA. 24404

JAN 31 1992

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 16

PHC may
get vote
on SAC

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

Students could have majority
voting power on the Student Affairs
Committee if the faculty approves a
proposal to give the Panhellenic
Council a vote on SAC.

Friday, SAC unanimously
adopted the proposal, which will go
to a faculty vote Monday, Dean of
Students David Howison said. The
faculty must approve the proposal by
a majority vote.

‘I’m optimistic the faculty
will be perfectly supportive of this,’’
Howison said. ‘‘It’s a logical step.”’

Five students, three staff mem-
bers and two administrators currently
sit on SAC.

A PHC representative now
attends SAC meetings but cannot
vote, outgoing PHC President Dale
Wyatt said.

The new proposal would give
students a 6-5 majority during the
committee votes, Howison said.

Kathy Jo Koberstein, a French
professor and fomer SAC member,
said SAC approved a similar proposal
8-1 two years ago, but the faculty
rejected it.

Koberstein said she was the
member of SAC who voted against
the proposal at that time and argued
against it before the faculty vote.

She said she expects the
faculty to reject the new proposal
because it would create an imbalance
between students and faculty.

She said students should not
be burdened with holding a majority
on SAC because of the sensitive
nature of the cases it hears.

SAC member and SCC Presi-
dent Chris Haley said having a
student majority on the committee is
not a concern because SAC rarely
votes along student/faculty lines.

Wyatt agreed with Haley’s
assesment.

‘In my experience, students
always act in the best interest of the
university. They don’t even really
represent their various organizations,”’
Wyatt said.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Friday flurries

Photo. by Leigh Allen, The Aing-tum Phi

 

 

Junior Hal Waller trudges through the white stuff Friday after a brief snowfall. More snow
Saturday night — about 1.5 inches worth — caused only minor traffic accidents, local police said.
Tomorrow’s forecast calls for partly sunny skies with a high near 50 degrees.

 

 

Delts fix up house,
hope for reversal

 

By THOMAS EISENHAUER
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Delta Tau Delta has cleaned up
its house and is drafting the appeal of
its five-year suspension.

Delt President Robert Wilson
said the chapter repaired some of the
damage done to the house by chapter
members before Christmas break. He
said the chapter worked on the house
last week and weekend.

He and i
Delt Vice Presi- 9
dent Pat Mc-
Cabe declined
to comment on
the nature of
the repairs.

‘ ‘ W e
would like to
wait until an Bs,

en
To es eee Robert Wilson
letting the campus know about that,”’
McCabe said.

Delt has until Feb. 10 to appeal
its five-year suspension in writing to
university President John D. Wilson.

On Jan. 17, the Student Affairs
Committee suspended Delt for five
years for the ‘“‘systematic destruc-
tion’’ of its house over a 10-week
period.

According to pictures of the
house and interviews with Delt House
Corporation President Taylor Cole,
Robert Wilson and Dean of Students
David Howison, members of the
chapter broke windows, knocked
down walls, removed ceiling tiles,
disassembled lofts and destroyed a
brick bar before moving out of the
house on Dec, 22.

 

   
   

President Wilson can reject the
appeal or send the case back to SAC
with commentary for reconsideration.
If the case were retumed to SAC,
Howison said, the committee would
do whatever is necessary to reconsid-
er the case fairly.

“The president doesn’t have the
arbitrary right to make the decision
on his own,’’ Howison said. ‘‘But
obviously SAC will listen to the
opinion of the president.”

Delt officials have disputed
SAC’s conclusion that the chapter
systematically destroyed its house.
Cole has said he estimates that fixing
the windows, walls and graffiti will
cost about $500. He has said he does
not know how much repairing the bar
will cost.

If Delt’s suspension is not re-
versed, Howison said, the chapter’s
seven pledges could try to join other
fraternities.

But pledge Doug Watson said
he will remain with the Delt group
whether or not the chapter is forced
to leave campus.

“I’m going to stay definitely in
Delta Tau Delta,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s the
only place I want to be right now.”’

Another pledge, Ray Mees, said
he would not comment on whether or
not he would stay with the house.

‘I can’t say anything right now.
I'll tell you after the decision [on the
appeal] has been made,”’ Mees said.

Watson declined to comment on
the intentions of the other pledges.

“There are certain people who
haven’t made up their minds yet,”’ he
said.

No one has depledged from the
chapter, McCabe said.

 

JANUARY 30, 1992

Jesse Jackson

spurns

By THOMAS EISENHAUER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

 

 

The Rev.
Jesse Jackson | MC invites
Tuesday | Cyomo after
canceled his | Jackson
appearance at
this year’s —"

Mock Conven-

tion, but New

York Gov. Mario Cuomo has been
invited to take his place.

‘Basically, Jesse Jackson re-
neged on us,’’ MC Speakers Chair-
man Ted Elliot said.

“Jackson was trying to fit us
into his schedule, and gave us a ver-
bal commitment,’’ Elliot said. ‘‘But
he couldn’t come because of engage-
ments to register voters for the Demo-
cratic campaign.”’

Elliot said Jackson had hoped to
arrange a registration drive while in
Lexington. But voter registration in
Virginia ends before W&L’s March

MC bid

7-8 convention.

Cuomo, who recently decided
not to run for the presidency despite
considerable party pressure, was
invited Tuesday morning after
Jackson canceled, Elliot said. MC
officials could not say when the New
York governor will make a decision.

Elliot said he does not know if
any Democratic candidates will speak
at MC.

“‘If the candidates cannot make
it, they’ll accept [MC’s] nomination
over the phone,”’ he said.

Michael Dukakis, the 1988
Democratic presidential candidate,
and former House Speaker Thomas P.
‘‘Tip’’ O’Neill have signed contracts
to speak at the convention, Elliot said.
Jim Olin, congressman for the Sixth
Virginia District that includes
Rockbridge County, has confirmed
that he will attend the convention.
Virginia Sen. Charles S. Robb is
expected to respond to his invitation
within a week, Elliot said.

FD fireworks cut

 

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Fireworks and the ‘‘playbill’’
brochure have been cut from this
year’s Fancy Dress, in part to create
a financial cushion for unexpected ex-
penses like those that left last year’s
gala in the red.

The theft of rented decorations,
at a cost of about $8,000, and unex-
pected cleanup costs were among the
reasons the 1991 event ran $6,300
over budget, according to 1992 FD
Chairman Elizabeth Vallotton.

Vallotton presented the first-
draft 1992 FD budget of $75,900 to
the Executive Committee Monday.
That budget did not include fireworks
or a brochure.

‘‘Not enough people see the
fireworks show’’ to justify the
expense, she said.

1991 FD Chairman John Flippen
said last year’s fireworks cost about
$2,000. Vallotton said the final cost

 

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Confidential Review Committee Members Allan Vestal, Ramona Franks, Ann Rogers, Allan Ides and Jeff
Kelsey listen to students discussing the problems of harassment on campus.

CRC examines assault jurisdiction

 

By JOSHUA MANNING
Phi Staff Reponer

 

The jurisdictions of the Confi-
dential Review Committee and the
Student Conduct Committee in sexual
assault cases were among the topics
discussed when 50 students met with
the CRC in Lee Chapel Wednesday.

Sophomore Kate Stimeling, of
the W&L Women’s Forum, talked
about the sexual harassment issue.

‘*A woman is going to be more
reluctant to bring such cases to the
Student Conduct Committee,’’
Stimeling said, especially when only
one woman currently sits on the SCC.

SCC member Rajeev Aggarwal,
’94L, defended the SCC’s ability to
hear harassment cases.

“‘While the CRC is necessary
for sexual assault cases, | think we
are sensitive enough and know
enough to judge other cases under the
harassment policy,’’ Aggarwal said.

SCC member Walter Godlewski,
’93L, called for greater cooperation
between the SCC and the CRC, rec-
ommending that a member of each
observe the other’s hearings.

‘This will deal with the whole
idea of consistency, given an obvious
overlap in jurisdiction,’’ Godlewski
said.

The CRC, which enforces uni-
versity harassment policy and deals
with ethnic, racial, religious and sex-
ual matters, is in the midst of a com-
prehensive self-study.

CRC Chairman Joan Shaughnes-

sy said the CRC’s largest task is to
increase awareness of its services.

‘“We have the responsibility for
letting the university community
know who we are and what we do,”’
Shaughnessy said. ‘‘More needs to be
done in the way of education.”

Mostly a counseling service, the
CRC itself has made only three case
decisions. Most complaints are han-
dled by the Dean of Students staff be-
fore they get to the CRC.

‘There is work to be done on
this campus to make sure that any
sexual activities between two people
are wholly voluntary,’’ Shaughnessy
said. “I’m not sure what will happen
with the committee, but there are
people out there who are hurting, and
that is the bottom line.”’

of last year’s brochure is disputed,
but it was budgeted at $1,500. Flip-
pen said it cost about $2,000.

Vallotton at first said the bro-
chure was cut because The Ring-tum
Phi’s supplement did a similar job.
She said Tuesday the FD committee
might reconsider that decision after
learning that the Phi is not planning a
regular supplement this year. But she
said Wednesday the decision not to
have a brochure will stand for now.

Phi Editor Jason Kelley said the
newspaper staff does not have time to
produce a regular FD supplement this
year because Mock Convention, FD
and exams follow so closely.

FD is expecting $79,350 in
revenue this year, Vallotton said, and
should therefore pay for itself. The
$3,450 cushion will be used for last-
minute expenses, Vallotton said.

“‘We overestimated all of our
cost to make sure we don’t have
problems,”’ she said. ‘‘I’ll die before
we go over budget.”’

EC ups
activities
fee by $15

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

The Executive Committee raised
next year’s Student Activities Fee to
$135 per person, a $15 increase.

The increase will mean an extra
$30,000 per year in the EC coffers.

Such an increase should avoid a
budget crisis like this year’s, said Bo
Russell, the EC vice president. He
said that while the EC allocated about
$222,000 this year to organizations, it
had $250,000 in requests.

Sophomore Rep. Nathan Dunn
said the increase is needed so the EC
can give more money to student
organizations.

“‘We weren’t able to give any
group as much as they needed this
year,’” Dunn said

The $15 increase was approved
after a motion for a $10 increase
failed.

Dunn proposed the motion for
$10.

**$15 is too much without hav-
ing a clear idea of what we are going
to spend it on,’’ Dunn said.

The activities fee was last raised
in 1989 by $5, according to EC Se-
nior Rep. Clayton Kennington.

According to the university
catalog, the fee is used to provide
financial support for the yearbook, the
campus newspaper, the student liter-
ary magazine, programs of the Stu-
dent Activities Board and other stu-
dent body activities.

In other business Monday, the
EC approved an $1,800 donation to
Superdance and preliminarily allotted
$220 to the women’s softball club.

 

page 3

 

Thatcher and Arias
differ on demilitarization

 

 

 

 

page 4

 

Coeducation:
a look back

 

page 8

Dickie V. takes
T.O. after game

 

 
Page 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

Stop lying about
the honor system

In the past two weeks, the Executive Committee has found
two Washington and Lee students guilty of honor violations
for plagiarism. While we are not allowed to know anything
about the cases themselves, if the two were guilty, the EC
should be commended for enforcing the code of honor
embraced by the current generation of students.

W&L does a wonderful job handling the big three honor
sins: lying, cheating and stealing. But in the last three years,
no one has even turned in a possible honor violation that
didn’t involve one of those three oft-touted measures of honor.
EC President Giles Perkins said the committee uses the
designations lying, cheating and stealing as ‘‘a mode of
analysis,’ trying to fit possible violations into one of those
categories.

Last year the White Book Revisions Committee concluded
that originally the White Book intended lying, cheating and
stealing only as examples of dishonorable conduct. The crux
of the honor system, the committee said, is that ‘‘although
honorable conduct cannot be codified, lying, cheating and
stealing are clear examples of breaches of the honor system.”’
The committee recommended that ‘‘or act dishonorably’’ be
added to the references of lying, cheating and stealing.

The EC disagreed, and in doing so accurately reflected the
feelings of the majority of students. The EC’s excuse was that
the addition of this new language would be too widely
interpreted by students and would lead to many unnecessary
and absurd complaints. The real reason, however, is that we,
the student body, do not believe we can hold ourselves
accountable to General Lee’s standard of honor.

As bad as that sounds, the White Book itself allows us the
privilege to determine how far we are willing to extend our
code of honor. The White Book clearly defines dishonorable
conduct as that which is ‘‘considered dishonorable by the
student generation involved.’’ And we have defined it as
lying, cheating and stealing.

Unfortunately, we have not openly recognized what we
have done. We have taken the opportunities afforded us by
the White Book and narrowed the honor system to fit our
conveniences, But at the same time, we continue to proclaim
to the world that we hold ourselves to the standard once
embraced by Lee. This is hypocrisy.

If we are comfortable with how we have defined honor, we
should not be hiding what we have done. Instead, it seems we
are ashamed of our interpretation of honor.

Our hypocrisy tells us what we have done is wrong. But
more than that, we can see that our version of the honor
system has lost the very spirit embodied in Lee’s vision of
honor.

Students think of the honor system today as something to
avoid, something to fear. That is the unfortunate outcome of
our interpretation. Instead, the honor system should be
something the student body embraces daily. Lee sought a
system in which students strove to incorporate honorable
ideals into their every action, not a system under which
students were constantly looking over their shoulders in fear.

To reverse our hypocrisy and to realign ourselves with
Lee’s vision, we should extend the parameters of our honor
system to include the dishonorable conduct we purport that it
does. Certainly, an ‘‘or act dishonorably’’ clause would do
just that.

Quote of the Week

Act normal.

--- A drunk female student dressed in her provocative lip-
synch costume, warning her equally drunk date (who was
lying in the gutter after falling and splitting his head open on
the curb) that a policeman was rapidly approaching.

 

 

OPINION |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hi. THIS iS SESE
i'm Not Garke TO
SPEAK AT YOUR «0% Any WEY worldé2
Wy No@op4 Teusts
DEMOCRATS -
r
Moo

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley

Cathy Lopiccolo
Thomas Eisenhauer
Joshua Manning

Jay Plotkin

Francesca Kefalas

Associate Editor
News Editor

Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor
Entertainment Editor
Assignment Editor
Photo Editor
Cartoonist

Leigh Allen

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

The current system puts
houses above students

 

My VIEW

By William C. “Burr” Datz, °75

 

Although the five-year suspension of Phi
Chapter (Delta Tau Delta) is welcomed by
some and lamented by others, my concern is
not whether or not this retributive action by
the student government is just and reasonable.
My concern is whether or not it places a
higher value on the preservation of physical
property than previous judgements handed
down, which sought to protect the physical
health of individual lives.

In our recent past, individuals’ lives have
been placed in great risk by behavior at least
indirectly associated with Greek life. For
example, there was a shotgun blast inside an
occupied house, there have been annual
hospitalizations during Tear Night, four re-
ported cases of sexual assault during last
fall’s Rush and a hit and run accident at 2
a.m., resulting in the death of a freshman in
March 1989. In most of these cases, the
individuals responsible were held accountable
for their transgressions and received an assort-
ment of social and conduct probations. Frater-
nity chapters were not held accountable for
individual behavior in these cases.

Last year, three individuals engaged in an
evening ‘‘scudweiser’’ bottle throwing exer-
cise, destroying windowpanes and endanger-
ing the safety of a sleeping housemother,
When the student government agencies did
not take immediate action to reprimand and
punish these students, President Wilson sus-
pended them for the remainder of winter term.
That action resulted in some student unrest,
and angry voices of protest rang out in Lee
Chapel and on the pages of the Spectator.
Since this wanton destruction of property
threatened the overall success of the Renais-
sance Program, these suspensions were
deemed appropriate by the powers that govern

Bookstore fails
‘Cheating 101’

To the Editor:

this university and by a general cross-section
of the student body.

In this recent Delt incident, it appears that
individuals are again responsible for approxi-
mately $500 of damage to the property, based
in reports in The Ring-tum Phi. This time, the
Chapter received the suspension.

I’m not denying the troubled nature of Phi
Chapter — as an active member in the early
‘70s and Chapter advisor in the mid-’80s, |
am well aware of the many difficulties sur-
rounding its history. But there are two issues
involved: (1) When does improper behavior
of individuals result in punishment for the
entire chapter? and (2) By increasing the
severity of the penalties imposed, have the
governing bodies of this university — both
student and administrative — begun placing a
higher value on the protection of their physi-
cal assets than on the protection of students?

It is simply not right to intentionally
destroy other people’s property. But it is also
wrong to destroy other people’s lives. Houses,
windows, walls and bars can all be replaced,
at great cumulative cost. Ashley Scarborough,
however, can never be replaced, and the scars
and erosion of trust left by the alleged sexual
assaults and rapes may never completely heal.
Is it the duty of fraternal organizations to
safeguard its members and prevent similar
transgressions?

The renovated houses are an important
part of beginning our Renaissance Program.
They deserve the care of all involved. But the
most important part of this, or any other
Greek system, is the people who compromise
it. When student and administrative governing
bodies zealously protect their human constitu-
ency with similar legislation and consistent
judgements which have been established as
precedents for the protection of the physical
buildings, then and only then will W&L’s
Renaissance Program have any real chance of
success.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1992

Arias shatters
misconceptions

My VIEW

 

By Rick J. Peltz

 

The first thing that struck me about Oscar Arias
Sanchez when I found him looking at a display case in the
library was that he is not very tall.

I held the mistaken stereotype that a man of his
renown, about whom tall tales are told, would in fact be
tall. It was just one of the misconceptions I had of him that
were dispelled after an hour.

He is soft-spoken in both Spanish and English. He’ll
speak whichever you prefer, unless he needs an expression
that does not translate.

He did not seize the ends of my questions with
zealous, rehearsed answers like many politicians of our day
might. He takes his time. He answers a question as fully
as he believes it needs to be answered, sometimes with
several minutes of monologue and sometimes in a word or
two. Often he sits in content silence until he can choose
just the words he wants to use.

Arias was the chief

Sandwiched — of the Central Am-

rican Peace of August
between Central —_—_ 1987, He won the Nobel
American hotbeds Peace Prize for it two
Nicaragua and months later, and he used
Coane: | “te paeeete ban Oe Moe

to set up an internationa
Rica is a tough peace foundation. His cur-
place to serve rent project is demilitariza-
as president. tion in Central America,

 

especially Panama. He
smiles when he talks about
his fledgling successes there, but he said the people are
listening.

He flew into Roanoke alone last week; he does not
travel with an escort. He seems to think that would be an
excessive recognition of his self-importance. Beside which,
he claims never to have had any trouble traveling alone in
Costa Rica.

Arias was president of Costa Rica, a democratic
republic with three branches of government, from 1986 to
1990. Sandwiched between Central American hotbeds
Nicaragua and Panama and stricken with the regional
problem of poor communication in rural areas, Costa Rica
is a tough place to serve as president.

But Arias believes the Costa Ricans like politics, and
he estimates that about 90 percent of those eligible to vote
do so. The presidential elections occur every four years,
and campaigning starts a good two years in advance.

Arias was not always as popular at home as he is
today. Despite the Central American Peace, a 25 percent
inflation rate in 1988 drew criticism from the Costa Rican
people and the press that Arias was too concerned with
issues abroad and not at home.

They might well have been right about their domestic
situation, though Arias produces figures to defend himself.
He insisted that at year-end 1988 things were in the process
of improving, and that they did improve. By the end of his
term, he said inflation had dropped to under ,10 percent.

Arias is regarded negatively from the popular First
World perspective as a leader in the Third World's eco-
nomic cry (perhaps whine) for help from United Nations
agencies. He is a critic of the ‘‘wealthy North.’’

He seems reluctant to criticize Costa Rica’s current
government, but he admits he doesn’t approve of the
opposition party’s president. He thinks the national econo-
my is again faltering and that the president does not know
how to handle it.

He shakes his head with regret when he says he
cannot again run for president due to a constitutional man-
date limiting heads of state to one term per lifetime.

But Arias is proud of Costa Rica and proud of the
freedom afforded the people there. He seems to want for-
eigners to know it is ‘‘the most open’’ nation in Latin
America.

He also wants us to come to Costa Rica, not just to
visit the tourist attractions but to see the poor areas, too. He
seems to think that everyone in the First World could learn
something from visiting the Third.

Come in the spring, he recommends, and bring an
umbrella for the rainy season. The tourist traffic is minimal
then.

If your timing is right, Arias said you might get to see
how well his wife is doing in the presidential primaries.

Rick J. Peltz, a junior, is an editor of The Ring-tum
Phi and co-recipient of the 1992 Todd C. Smith Memorial
Fellowship. This spring, he will travel to Costa Rica to
study the state of free press in that nation.

 

LETTERS

prevent us from making a small contribution to

Mr. Moore’s post-graduate studies.

Sincerely,

employed by a West Virginia library vendor to
stage three performances a day — theirs was the
only booth in the exhibit hall with a grand piano!
I was proud to proclaim to my friends and col-
leagues that these talented guys were W&L

 

While reading through the January 16 issue
of the Phi, I came across the headline ‘‘W&L
students won't buy cheating at Bookstore.”’ I had
a feeling that this referred to Michael Moore’s
Cheating 101: The Benefits and Fundamentals of
Earning the Easy ‘A’ and assumed that the 86-
page book was not selling well here on campus.
However, I was appalled to learn that the Book-
store did not even plan on carrying the book
because they felt it would not appeal to some
W&L students. Well, neither does economics. In
fact, there is a plethora of material in the W&L
Bookstore that does not interest most of the
students: children’s books, swimsuit calendars,
The Village Voice, N.W.A. and Ice-Cube, How
does one know what will interest students if the
students don’t even have the opportunity to buy
it? Mr. Moore made a controversial but truthful
statement — most students cheat or have cheated.
He supports this statement with 86 pages of
examples of how he or students he has known
have cheated. Washington and Lee, of course,
does not have this problem. Yet, we should not
be ignorant of what goes on elsewhere. If 1 buy
a book on fascism, that does not make me a
fascist. If | buy a book on women’s studies, that
certainly doesn’t make me a women. Therefore,
simply because W&L students don’t choose to
“stroll along academic Easy Street’’ should not

Keith E. Grant, '94

IU head thanks
Lex Vegas helpers

To the Editor:

On behalf of the Independent Union, I
would like to thank all of those people who
volunteered their time and energy to the Winter
Picnic in Lex Vegas. The event would not have
been possible if they had not given their time.

Sincerely,
Erica L. Ingersoll

SoCo sings W&L
proud on the road

To the Editor:

I attended the American Library Association
Midwinter Conference in San Antonio last week
and was astounded to find nine Southern Comfort
alumni singing some of the old familiars in the
exhibit area. Robby Aliff and his friends were

graduates, still wonderful ambassadors for their
alma mater.

Sincerely,
Barbara Brown
University Librarian

Student protests
Thatcher coverage

To the Editor:

I wish to protest this issue’s coverage of
Maggie Thatcher’s lecture. Of course, I haven’t
yet read the report, but I know it will appear —
right there on page one — and I know it will be
grovelingly and mindlessly pro-Maggie. She
probably gets more attention than the sublime
President Arias. For God’s sake, open your eyes,
will you? Maggie is one of the most despicable
figures to be vomited forth into the world of
politics since WWII.

For a reasonable appraisal of her and her
shameless little showcase of hypocrisy and deceit
last week, see my column in the forthcoming
issue of the new student opinion magazine.

Yours etc...,
Niall MacKenzie, ’93

 

 

é

*
The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1992

 

World leaders differ on national defense

Thatcher
Says, ‘be
prepared’

By RICK PELTZ
Phi Editor

 

 

A sustained strong defense in
the First World and the reconciliation
of political and military decisions
were the themes of former British
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher’s
address at Virginia Military Institute
Friday.

“The unexpected won’t stop
happening,’’ she said. ‘Tyrants will
not stop being born.”’

Thatcher gave a chronology of
crises she faced during her term in
office, all of which she said were
unexpected. She started with the 1979
Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and
ended with the Iraqi invasion of Ku-
wait, along the way covering the war
between Great Britain and Argentina
over the Falkland Islands.

In each emergency, Thatcher
said NATO’s readiness allowed West-
em military forces to mobilize quick-
ly.

“In no stage in that 11 to 12
year period could we have defended
liberty... unless we had made the right
decisions in defense,’’ she said. ‘“The
assurance that liberty will triumph is
to retain your defense in peak condi-
uion.”’

Thatcher stressed the importance
of mutual understanding between
political and military forces.

During the war in the Falklands,
she said, British military and political

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, Washington and Lee

Former Costa Rican President Oscar Arias addresses W&L
students Thursday. Arias spoke in Lee Chapel later that night,
calling for world disarmament and more aid to the Third World.

 

 

Satz, Mathematics Department
— “Gimme a biscuit, babe, and
I'll tell ya.”’

 

|

L

- NEWS -

 

 

 

|

ol

 

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

Ve |
ee
a

Ps
,

    
  
  

Ni 3

i

ANE EL |

Na

Ps

ee

  

, 3

EE
Photo by Claudia Schwab, The News-Gazette

val <r

 

Former British Prime Minister Margret Thatcher addresses the crowd in VMI’s Cameron Hall Friday
night. Members of the speakers committee that invited her to Lexington sit on the platform behind her.

chiefs met together every Sunday.

The military ‘‘should never be
wanting a political decision as to
what their objective is,’’ she said.

‘‘When the objective is to re-
cover the liberty of the people, that is
your first objective.”’

Thatcher also praised the way
Western nations countered commu-
nism during her term. She lauded
NATO’s containment policy as well

 

   

 

as Western propaganda machines like
Radio Liberty.

“We took our technology
ahead,”’ she said, ‘‘and this was say-
ing, ‘We will not tolerate the exten-
sion of your wicked creed. You might
as well drop it.” ’’

She also praised former Soviet
President Mikhail Gorbachev as a
visionary in the Soviet Union, saying
she helped show him the merits of a

free society when he visited Britain.

Thatcher said, given the rapid
breakup of the Soviet Union and the
uneasy alliance that has replaced it,
looking ahead can be frightening.

She said not to worry, though,
as things worked out all right after
another great empire once crumbled
— the British Empire.

“And that would’ve been han-
dled better if I’d been there.”’

Arias calls on First World
to ease debt, demilitarize

 

By RICK PELTZ
Phi Editor

 

The time has come for the First
World to face the Third, according to
Nobel Peace Prize winner Oscar
Arias, who spoke at Lee Chapel on
Jan. 23.

‘For nearly 40 years the world
endured a confrontation of two mili-

tary blocks ‘with*an insafiely déstruc-’'’

‘tive capacity,”’ Arids'said. ‘‘[By con-
centrating on the Cold War,] the pow-
ers of the North have postponed the
solution of humanity’s problems.”’

Arias, former president of Costa
Rica, won the Nobel Prize in 1987
for his Central American Peace plan.

He said that since the Cold War
is over, world leaders’ next priority
should be the Third World.

“‘No nation can advance solu-
tions to contemporary problems until
the problems in the Third World are
resolved,’’ he said.

“Since 1982, Third World gov-
ernments have encountered crises that
have impeded them ... from a reason-
able level of human development in
the foreseeable future. Banks are
more concerned with collecting debts
than human development.”

Arias cited debt, drugs, poverty
and deforestation as the most impor-

tant Third World problems to be
solved. They are all related, he said.
Thousands of people dedicate
their lives to drug production because
it is so profitable and gives them eco-
nomic power, their best weapon
against poverty, he said. Natural
resources such as forests are thus
destroyed to make more room for
drug production.
“He said the Third World nations

cannot break this cycle because they '

spend their resources servicing debt.

“The ball is in the court of the
industrialized nations,’’ Arias said.
“We [in the Third World] no longer
talk about external but eternal debt.’’

Arias also said armed conflict
must be eradicated from the Third
World. He said the five permanent
member nations of the United Nations
Security Council supply 85 percent of
the world’s arms, and thus must take
the lead in global demilitarization.

Arias pointed to Costa Rica,
which does not have an army, as an
example of successful demilitariza-
tion.

‘| don’t see any need for a
small country like ... Guatemala to
have an army of 60,000 men,”’ he
said. ‘‘Costa Rica ... has been the
only country ... with the courage to
declare peace to the world.”’

 

 

Ollie, English Department —
“‘There’s no place else that I'd
rather be.”’

Andy, English Department —
“You wanna play with my ball?
Only special people get to play
with my ball.”’

BARKBACK

Molly, Colonnade Comber —
“Y'm too sexy for the hill, too
sexy for the hill...”

 

 

 

 

Page 3
GENERAL NOTES
Kathekon Fireworks!
Kathekon, W&L’s student alum- The International Club will

ni association, will accept appli-
cations for membership from
interested members of the stu-
dent body beginning Feb. 5.
Kathekon membership is open
to rising juniors and seniors.
Applications will be available at
the Alumni House or outside
Carol Calkins’ office in the
University Center. They will be
due by March 4.

SAB Flick

The SAB will present two
showings of the recently
released movie Billy Bathgate
on Sunday. The movie stars
Dustin Hoffman, Bruce Willis
and Nicole Kidman. Screenings
will be at 2 and 7 p.m. in Reid
203. Admission is $1.

Speak Out

The W&L Chapter of the ACLU
will sponsor an open mike
forum on Tuesday, Feb. 4 from
noon to 1 p.m. in the ODK
Circle in front of the Co-op.
The topic will be ‘‘Does the
Republican Party have the right
to keep David Duke off the
presidential primary ballot.”’

FBI
The FBI will be holding an
open information session for
any students interested in learn-
ing more about the bureau on
Feb. 5 at 4 p.m. in room 109 of
the University Center.

Lost and Found

A cassette radio, a sweater,
gloves, and several jackets and
umbrellas have been found.
Please claim in room 104 of the
University Center.

Writing Center

The Writing Center is open for
winter term Tuesday through
Thursday from 7-10 p.m. in
Payne 2B. Students who want
help with writing projects of any
kind are encouraged to sign up
or to stop by for an individual
conference with a writing tutor.
This semester we have double
tutors available on Thursday

nights.
Film Society

The next presentation of the
W&L film society will be To
Sleep with Anger, directed by
Charles Burnett. Showings will
be at 8:05 p.m. on Jan. 31 and
Feb. 1 in Lewis Hall Classroom
“A.” There is no charge for
admission. The film is in Eng-
lish. To Sleep with Anger is a
powerful drama, with a super-
natural tinge, of a contemporary
black family.

Republicans

There will be a meeting of the
College Republicans on Thurs-
day at 7 p.m. in Commerce
School Room 221. All new
members welcome.

sponsor a fireworks display in
front of the Doremus Gym on
Tuesday, Feb. 4, at 7:30 p.m. in
honor of Chinese New Year.

Reception
The reception for those students
interviewing with Hecht’s on
Feb. 4 will be held on Feb. 3
from 7-8:30 p.m. at the Alumni
House.

Debate

‘‘Which party is more compe-
tent to lead the U.S.?’’ is the
topic of a debate featuring the
College Democrats and the
College Republicans. The debate
will be held on Tuesday at 7:30
p.m. in Commerce School
Room 327. The public is invited
and a reception will follow.

Club Softball

There will be a women’s Club
Softball meeting on Jan. 30 at 7
p.m. in the 500-level classroom
in the gym. If you are interest-
ed, but can’t make it, please call
Meredith Gronroos at 464-5541
or Jill Jacques at 463-3906.

Superdance
Superdance will be held on Feb.
7-8 in the Pavilion. The Battle
of the Bands will be held on
Friday night. Boy O Boy will
also perform on Friday. The
winner of the Battle of the
Bands and the Truly Dangerous
Swamp Band will perform on
Saturday night.

LSAT

The Kaplan Prep Course for the
June LSAT test has been re-
scheduled. It will begin on Feb.
9 and run through March, meet-
ing on Sunday afternoons from
2-6 p.m. and Thursday evenings
from 6-10. p.m. in Commerce
School Room 221. To receive a
full schedule and to learn how
to pre-register, inquire at the
Career Development and Place-
ment Office in the University
Center.

Karate
Anyone interested in forming a
Karate/self-defense/kickboxing
club, call. Tim Vanderver at
464-6273.

Pub Board
The Pub Board will meet on
Monday at 8 p.m. in The Ring-
tum Phi office. The new maga-
zine editor and business manag-
er will make a presentation.

Get It Out

Need to get a message to the
student body? Put it in the Gen-
eral Notes. Leave a brief, typed
note in the General Notes enve-
lope outside The Ring-tum Phi
office at room 208 of the Uni-
versity Center.

Jameson Leonardi compiled the
General Notes.

 

 

 

 

Barley, PsychologyDepartment
— ‘As long as I can sleep, it’s
cool,”’

 

Do you really enjoy hanging out on the hill’?

 

 

Cisco, Romance Languages
Department — ‘‘Si, pero este
perro voy a la tertulia para en-
contrarme con una perra.”’

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4

Wé&LIFE

Coeducation in Retrospect

The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1992

 

 

100 year debate preceded the school’s ‘big leap

 

By JOYCE BAUTISTA
Phi Staff Reporter

 

“You calic men will say that life will be too prosy
without flirtation, — if girls get serious, and that boys
will be boys and girls will be girls. We doubt if life
should be any less poetic if you should understand the
real poetry of life; ... And you need never fear that boys
will be girls and girls will be boys under co-education"’

--The Ring-tum Phi, March 1, 1902

The debate over whether to admit women to
Washington and Lee goes back much further than its in-
ception in the fall of 1985.

The earliest co-education debate on record in-
volved the faculty and Board of Trustees in the spring of
1896. The reason for the debate was a drastic drop in
student enrollment in 1895, which may be seen as an
event to foreshadow later discussions involving the same
dilemma of enrollment from the late 1960s to the early
1980s.

The final faculty vote in 1896 was three ayes and
, seven nays. According to Ollinger Crenshaw’s General
oo a Lee's College, the reverend trustee, Dr. E.C. Gordon,
a =e" Fa | moved on June 17, 1896, for the appointment of a board

: elf committee to inquire into the expediency of ‘‘opening the
aut rae eae eee doors of this University” to women. Yet, the next day the
resolution was voted on and not discussed again until

1902.

‘‘Shall we perpetuate the old prejudice which has
existed for ages, and has only succumbed to some extent
to the liberalism of the twentieth century? Shall we resign
our place as the most progressive institution in the South,
as the leader in the march of civilization, as well as in
scholarship?’’ The Southern Collegian was on top of the
co-education issue. In 1902 the publication declared that
the ‘‘big’’ question, the ‘‘burning’’ issue of the day was
admitting women at Washington and Lee. A faculty com-
mittee was again put to work investigating the feasibility
of coeducation and, according to Crenshaw, stated that if
the committee report should be favorable, the faculty
would recommend coeducation to the trustee’s meeting in
June.

The Ring-tum Phi was also in support of admitting
women to W&L, yet again the issue was dealt a heavy
handed defeat. One student wrote to the Phi urging Wash-
ington and Lee to ‘‘resist the ‘New Woman,’ who was far
too ‘strenuous’ for the young man’s taste.”’

Except for the admission of women students during
the wartime summers of 1942-1944, when the university
was practically devoid of male students, and in 1969 and
A 1950 edition of Southern Collegian reported that 1975, when interest in coeducation heightened, 1902
it uncovered a W&L plan to go co-ed in the fall. marked the beginning of a lull in the activism for coed-
This was their version of the future campus. ucation at W&L. The lull was ended by the growing lib-

Er ew oo

HARRIS TEETER MEANS
LOW PRICES!

Boston Butt
Pork Roast

  
   
   

 

 

 

File Photo

1) gs
NO 2 Weer
rye tae

 

Self-Basting;

Turk
Breast ...

   
 

 
  
 
 
   

 

 

Chilean Soft Fruit Sale - Mix Or Match
Peaches, Plums

Or!’Nectarines
% » : % a a Be

 
  

 
   

  
 

tO , Aare — sae

‘ Ory

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eralism that began sweeping the country in the late 1960s.

In 1970, women began to take undergraduate
courses through an exchange program with area colleges.

In 1972, the Law School admitted women, bowing §
to pressure from the American Bar Association, who
would not continue to accredit schools and colleges not
open to talent regardless of race, religion, or sex.

“I guess I should not have been surprised to have
it [coeducation] become the focal point of my first 10
months in office — though clearly I was surprised,”’
University President John Wilson said in 1983 in his,
“Reflections on the Question of Undergraduate Coeduca-
tion at Washington and Lee.”’

According to an Oct. 1984 Newsweek article Presi-
dent Wilson had come from all-female Wells College,
where he had supported single-sex education. Wilson cited
the fact that an increasing number of qualified applicants
had decided not to go to W&L because it was all-male.

According to Professor of History and University
Historian Taylor Sanders, single-sex Washington and Lee
was once the norm, along with such prestigous univer
sities as Harvard, Princeton, and Vassar. After they and
many other universities and colleges across the nation
decided to admit women, W&L became isolated. Single-
sex schools were no longer the norm, but an oddity.

**Coeducation has been the essential factor in
making Princeton the most attractive place in the country,
not only for students but for faculty...’’ Princeton’s Pro-
fessor Albert Sonnenfeld said shortly after Princeton’s Lem Tucker of CBS News interviewed President
admission of women. Wilson about coeducation in 1983.

The steady drop in student enrollment seemed to
also support the reasoning that single-sex universities were
no longer attractive to potential college students.

‘*In short we are not dealing with a fad but with a
significant permanent change in American Society,”

President Wilson said in his 1983 report. E

In 1983, W&L accepted
slightly over half of it’s appli-
cants, according to the co-edu-
cation report. Expectations were
that enrollment would drop 25 i
percent all across the nation in sity N
the next year, forcing the uni-
versity to lower admission stan-
dards to keep enrollment of the
freshman class steady.

Supporters of coeduca- t.
tion believed that the addition
of women students in the class-
room would produce higher
quality work, because the report
assumed that at 18 women are

 

  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

od

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

One campus publication printed this cartoon with
} the caption, “A point beyond debate — most coeds
are worth watching.”

 

CO-ED continued on page 5>

  
  
     
  
  
 
  

 

Sparkle
Paper Towels

|

For
Roll

Campbell's
ato Soup

269

  
  

       
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

Ay ie:

Breyers/’

i Pin FO

 

 

 

 

6 Pack - 16 Oz. NRB,

Diet Coke,

axes
Classic

oe
ae

pees
oe}

 

   
   
 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prices Effective Through February 4, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, February 4, 1992. In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps,

 
The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1992

~ W&LIFE

235 years changed in one decision

 

¥ CO-ED continued from page 4

 

assumed that at 18 women are more mature than men.
Faculty also said a valuable point of view would be
gained by the continuous presence of women in class
discussion.

Opponents of coeducation cited what they called,
“doctrine of distraction,’’ causing nervousness between
the sexes that could affect academic performance.

Associate Professor of Sociology David Novak
released a report of the poll results conducted by students
in the department entitled ‘‘Coeducation at Washington
and Lee University: Student and Faculty Perspectives.”’

The results of the 1984 survey revealed that 42.4
percent of the student body polled believed that W&L
should go co-ed and 52.9 percent should not. A total of
1,084 students, or 84 percent participated in the survey.

Among the faculty the results were much more lop-
sided in favor of coeducation. Of those faculty members
polled, 82.3 percent believed that W&L should admit
women and 14.3 percent opposed admission of women. A
total of 120 faculty members, or 84 percent participated in
the survey.

Both groups surveyed, according to the 1984 report,
were concerned with ‘‘potential loss of tradition and dis-
tinctiveness coupled with cost of converting to coedu-
cation.”’

In 1984, after 235 years of only admitting men,
W&L’s Board of Trustees voted 17 to 7 to admit women
in the fall of 1985.

‘*An all-male school doesn’t seem to be a product that

sells,’’ Board Chairman James Ballengee said to News-

week in 1984.

In 1985, W&L admitted 107 women as part of the 423 [-

member class of ‘89. The campus swarmed with reporters

to record the memorable moment of Washington and Lee | 4

University history that ended 235 years of single-sex ad-
mission.

But, there were still those who strongly opposed |

coeducation.

“‘The education of women is a trivial matter,’’ one
veteran professor told a Newsweek reporter. ‘‘The edu-
cation of men is a serious matter. I don’t think the frivo-
lous and serious should mix.”’

Jon Missert, a graduate of the last all-male class, 1988,
noted that he along with most of his class were initially
opposed to coeducation.

‘“Many of the alumni felt that the issue was railroaded
through the Board of Trustees,’’ Missert said. ‘“The deci-

sion wasn’t made in a good way. It seemed they voted |;

when school was out of session to purposely avoid student
protest.’’

Though initially opposed to coeducation, Missert along
with a majority of his class had learned to accept the new
women on the Hill as fellow W&L students.

“‘W&L being a single-sex school fostered dealing with
women on a strictly social level only,’’ Missert said.
“‘Women should be dealt with on an academic level, not
' just as girls coming down the road.”’

 

Though Missert said it felt good to graduate from a
university that had higher academic standards than before
coeducation, he believes that W&L did not need to admit
women because of the falling student enrollment. Instead,
he blames poor recruiting not the W&L’s supposed loss
of appeal to perspective freshmen.

“‘If they really wanted more and better applicants,’’ he
said, ‘‘they could have gotten them.’’

The notion that there were some professors still
strongly opposed to admitting women after coeducation,
Missert said, was not their opposition of female W&L
students but the fear of losing tradition.

However, by 1988 women had their own social
organizations and sports. Women had been elected to the
Executive Committee and held offices in class government
and positions in the school newspaper and other groups.

The adjustment had been awkward for the first class
of women, Professor Sanders said, but conditions for
women have greatly improved. The colonization of
sororities and the availability of support groups for women
are firm pillars of support for the growing female popula-
tion.

Sanders, a professor at W&L since 1969, was one of
the 90 percent of the faculty that finally agreed on
coeducation. He feels that the first few classes of grad-
uating women had it the worst but noticed that their
outlook on life was more optimistic, toughened by a male-
dominated social and academic environment.

‘In order to survive here,’’ he said, ‘‘a kid has to be
tough. That’s the way it always has been.”’

 

 

File Photo

The face of the Colonnade was
changed forever in 1984.

 

a eae

W&L students staged a sit-in in front of university President John Wilson’s desk in

1984 to protest coeducation.

   

Associated Press

Page 5

 

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 1
1 Beat it!
5 Pointed 16
10 15th of March
14 Curtail v ’

15 Hand protector

16 Egypt's river

17 Arabian ruler

18 Rent again

19 Urn

20 Scanty

22 Journeyed

24 Throat-clearing
word

26 ‘Family —"

27 Music writer

31 Simpleton

35 Shun

36 Burdened

38 Worldwide gp.

39 Farm building

40 Changed
residences

41 Chew

42 ‘‘— in the bag!"

43 Wall section

44 Gr. island

45 Required

47 Lowered in rank

49 Work for wages

©1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

§1 Dull ‘ooking 10 Buy stocks and
52 Not as pretty bonds

56 Drink 11 Watch face

60 Uninteresting 12 Otherwise

61 Dog's warning 13 Plant beginning
63 Gravenimage 21 Like tame

64 Off schedule

65 Make use of

66 Armstrong or
Simon

67 Ran away

68 Rocky shelf

horses
23 Blood conduit
25 Cantaloupe
27 Log home
28 Egg-shaped
29 Code inventor

O 411 412 413

 

01/30/92

Last Week’s Answers:

 

69 Strong wind 30 Spoke with
enthusiasm
DOWN 32 Provided
1 Health resorts alcoholic
2 Temporary drinks to
lodging 33 Angry
3 Opera highlight 34 Hauled 01/30/92
4 Turtle 37 Struck out
5 Consents 40 Certain vocal
6 Small land composition
mass: Fr. 41 Clutching 48 Grating 55 Highway
7 Shed feathers 43 Ring 50 Daring 57 Thought
8 Turn inside 44 Study forexams 52 Moiety 58 Simmer
out 46 Transferred 53 Spoken 59 She: Fr.
9 Kept behind title 54 Small amount 62 Toupee

 

 

FOR THE RECORD

 

In the story, ‘‘Play will surprise you’’ in the Jan. 23, 1992 issue of
The Ring-tum Phi, the roles of the two brothers were reversed. Rich
Cassone plays Austin, and Mason Pettit plays Lee. Pettit’s name was also

misspelled.

 

SERVICITAR:

LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 South Main St., Lexington, VA 24450

463-2242

 

 

life real life.

 

The new Apple” Macintosh’ Classic’ II
computer makes it easier for you to juggle
classes, activities, projects, and term papers—
and still find time for what makes college

It’s a complete and affordable Macintosh
Classic system that’s ready to help you get
your work finished fast. It’s a snap to set up
and use. It has a powerful 68030 micro-
processor, which means you can run even
the most sophisticated applications with ease.
And its internal Apple SuperDrive™ disk
drive reads from and writes to Macintosh and
MS-DOS formatted disks—allowing you to
exchange information easily with
almost any other kind of computer.

   

 

 

FaTixorerUrarar eat nCem\YHCOTN COO RO eh) OTE

It cantt do laundry or find you a date
but it can help you find more time tor both.

In addition to its built-in capabilities, the
Macintosh Classic II can be equipped with up
to 10 megabytes of RAM, so you'll be able to
run several applications at once and work
with large amounts of data.

If you already own a Macintosh Classic,
and want the speed and flexibility of a
Macintosh Classic II, ask us about an

upgrade—it can be installed in just minutes
and it’s affordable.

  
 
   
  

To put more time on your side, consider
putting a Macintosh Classic II on your desk.
See us for a demonstration today, and while
you're in, be sure to ask us for details

about the Apple Computer Loan.
It'll be time well spent.

ay

For further information visit the
Computer Center in Tucker Hall

and ask for Mac McCloud

or call 463-8844

Classic is a registered trademark used under license by Apple Computer, Inc. This ad was created using Macintosh computers

©1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks and SuperDrive is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation

 

 

 
Page 6

 

Play the
numbers
on Friday

By ERIN MCKINNEY
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

The Student Activities Board
hosts the fourth annual ‘‘Bingo
Night’’ Friday at 8 p.m. in the Stu-
dent Activities Pavilion.

The event is not a fund-raiser,
“it’s just a great time to relax and
throw a few numbers around,”’ said
SAB Chairman Will Jones.

“*Bingo Night has been gaining
popularity every year,’’ said Special
Events Director John Flippen. ‘The
people that come really have a great
time,’’ he said.

Jones said the SAB expects at
least 300 people.

Prizes include a TV, VCR,
Fancy Dress tickets and a Nintendo
game system.

The event includes 10 games of
bingo. The first card costs $3, the

 

~*~

 

second costs $2 and each after that
will be $1.

The band ‘‘Wild Grass’’ will
play between each game. Two SAB

Impeded path

   

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 

freshmen, Kip Ebel and Jeremy En-
slein, will host the evening.

Anyone 21 years of age or older
can bring alcohol into the pavilion,

 

Senior Mark Melton’s path to the basket is blocked by a
Hampden-Sydney player. The Tigers beat the Generals 84-63
Wednesday night in the Warner Center.

 

but glass bottles will not be permitted.

Student political parties

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1992

 

Speaker addresses disorders

 

By MAUREEN LEVEY
Phi Staff Reponer

 

Studies show one in four col-
lege women in the United States
suffers from an eating disorder, and
the figures are not much different at
Washington and Lee. In fact, they
might be higher.

Marlene Boskind-White, a
national authority on eating disorders,
will talk to a W&L audience in
Northen Auditorium tonight about
““bulimarexia,’’ a combination of
anorexia and bulimia, which are char-
acterized starvation and binging and
purging.

According to studies Boskind-
White began at Cornell University in
the mid 1970s, many driven young
women can develop the compulsive
behavioral disorders as a way of
coping with other pressures.

They lose or control their
weight through unhealthy methods
like starvation, binging and purging,
abuse of laxatives or diuretics, and
compulsive exercise.

“*High achieving women, like
those at W&L, find themselves often
with a problem [with eating],’’ said
Associate Dean of Students and
Counseling Psychologist Anne Schro-
er-Lamont. ‘‘Achievers strive for
perfectionism.”’

According to Schroer-Lamont,

 

   

WT]
Boskind-White

more W&L women have come for
counseling this year for eating disor-
ders than in other years, and some
men have come as well. National
studies indicate one person in 10 with
the eating disorders is a man.

‘Even athletes have ‘bulimar-
exic’ tendencies because of their
discipline to stay in shape,’’ Schroer-
Lamont said, ‘‘especially male wres-
tlers who have strict weight guide-
lines.’’

Schroer-Lamont added that
one-third of women nationally with
eating disorders have also been sexu-
ally assaulted or raped.

Bulimarexia is the most com-
mon form of eating disorders, accord-
ing to Schroer-Lamont. She said some
anorexics lose up to 30 percent of

their body weight, cease to menstru-
ate, suffer anemia and even die. Buli-
mics usually remain closer to a nor-
mal body size, but may develop dys-
rhythmia or a ruptured esophagus
among other problems.

‘I’m not sure people engaged
in such behaviors are even aware of
their condition,’’ she said. ‘‘Many are
striving to be perfect. That can trigger
it.”” The Health Education Com-
mittee invited Boskind-White, who is
a professional counselor in Roanoke,
Va. Her staff includes a nutritionist
and an exercise physiologist.

Schroer-Lamont said Boskind-
White has treated thousands of wom-
en, some from as far away as Canada
and Europe, with eating disorders.

Boskind-White is presently a
consultant to the National Collegiate
Athletic Association. She is also a
senior consultant at St. Albans Psy-
chiatric Hospital in Radford, Va., and
serves as adjunct associate professor
at Virginia Tech.

She and her husband William
C. White, Jr. have authored numerous
publications, including the best selling
book Bulimarexia: The Binge/Purge
Cycle, and articles in national maga-
zines on eating disorders.

Boskind-White will begin her
speech, ‘‘When Food is a Four Letter
Word”’ at 7:30 p.m.

City takes recycling plan to colleges

the W&L food services. Recycling of computer paper

 

to discuss election issues

By JENNIFER LATHAM

 

 

By JAMESON LEONARDI
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Who is more competent to lead
the United States, the Democrats or
Republicans?

The College Democrats and
College Republicans will sponsor a
debate to answer that question on
Feb. 4 at 7:30 p.m. in Commerce
School Room 227.

College Democrats President
Matt Jackson said debate is not meant
to be competitive but educational.

“It’s something that has never
been done before, the bringing togeth-
er of Democrats and Republicans to

  
   
    
  

3 W. Nelson St., Lexingion

 
  
   
       

130 S. Main St.

discuss issues,’’ Jackson said. ‘‘We
can leam a lot from each other by
debating the issues.”’

Jackson said he sees some of
the debate focusing on the Democrat-
ic plans to reclaim the middle class
and on their view of the Gulf War.

“The hypocrisy of foreign af-
fairs will also be an issue,’’ Jackson
said. ‘‘The Gulf War started out as a
war for jobs and oil and ended up as
an ideological war.”’

Amanda Stewart, chairman of
the College Republicans, agrees with
Jackson’s opinion as to the reasons
for the debate.

 

Ap

 

 

 

 

come out of the debate as friends,”’
Stewart said.

But Stewart said economic and
trade issues will be more important
than the subjects Jackson menuoned.

“The Republicans think the
federal government is too large,”’
Stewart said. ‘‘We want more choices
for the consumer. Republicans believe

Phi Staff Reporter

A new recycling program is being planned for
Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute in co-
operation with the city of Lexington, and some of the re-
sults can already be seen on campus.

At present, recycling receptacles for mixed paper and
cardboard are found throughout W&L’s undergraduate
campus. According to Buildings and Grounds Superin-
tendent James Arthur, mixed paper bins will soon be at
the law school, as well.

Collections from these bins are taken to the larger
recycling collection center, located next to the Kroger gro-
cery store on Rt. 11. Drop-off centers and storage spaces
may eventually exist in Augusta County and areas north
of Rockbridge County, as well.

Lexington City Manager Jon Ellestad said he hopes to

will also be emphasized because it is very cost effective,
according to Ellestad.

‘The city is under a mandate. Ten percent of its land-
fill tonnage must be recycled,’’ said Arthur.

Curbside collection of recyclable materials and the
addition of a county landfill for bailed paper and card-
board should increase the percentage of used items that
are recycled.

Ellestad said Lexington already may be ahead of its
goal because summary figures for 1991 indicate 13 per-
cent of the city’s total waste stream was recycled.

Ellestad added that the city will still need federal
funding to help it buy a place for the landfill and market
the project.

While a processing center for recyclable materials has
not been established, W&L and VMI are encouraging
students to get involved with campus recycling programs.

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satin shoes dyed in 1 hr.

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book ba

Lexington Bike

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

“I hope the two parties can in free enterprise and free trade.”’

 

expand the program to include metal cans and glass from

 

  

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5
31 S. Main St., Lexington

464-6666

 

463-3355

 

 

 

 

 

       
  

SA ary Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture

Shop

463-7969

  

 

 

 

  

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

PPFFPIPIPDPDP DIDI P DIDI PDO

 

   

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ®Perfumes
Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

se rman error ne
Rt. 5, Box 379 BOBBY BERKSTRESSER
ho} pagolllo LEE HI
WINTER SALE Lee Hi Truck Stop
All Winter Merchandise Lee Hi Trucking
V, Off Lee Hi Truck Parts
2 Lee Hi Wrecker Service
23 N. Main St., Lexington Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
703-463-3478 Lee Hi Restaurant 1-800-768-LEHI

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

115 S. Main St., Lexington 463-2742

   

 

    
     

 

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450

Chi Omega
The following Chi Omega sorority pledges’
names were misspelled.
Deirdre Tannahill Denechaud
Megan Elizabeth McCloskey
Noelle Marie Parrott
Annemarie Herta Paulin
Elizabeth Anne Zarek

  

  
    
   
       
         
    
   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Outerwear
Chamois Shirts

College Town Shop

703-463-2731
111 West Nelson Street

 

¥Y, Off

 

 

 

 

 

‘*Recycling is, and should be, a priority,’ he said.

Financial Aid available Immediately! Special grants pro-
gram. Every student eligible. No one turned down, simple

application. Send name, address and $1 P&H fee (refunda-
ble) to: Student Services, P.O. Box 22-4026, Hollywood, FL

  
       
   
   
   
   
   
      

Aluin-Bennis
Winter Clearance Sale

Suits & Sportcoats 20-50% Off Dress Pants 20-50% Off Sweaters 30% Off
Outerwear 30% Off Flannel & Chamois Shirts 30% Off
Group of Sport Shirts 30-50% Off One Rack of Ties 4 Price

Top Coats 30% Off Corduroy Pants Price

Group of Shoes 2 Price

 

“New Arrivals
W&L Dog Collars & Leashes
Mock Convention Ties’’

Since 1963
Student Charge Available

 

 

 

   

MasterCard

 

 
   

VALENTINE'S DAY SPECIAL
FAX A VALENTINE TO YOUR SWEETHEART!

SEND 1 PAGE ANYWHERE IN THE US 3 00
GOOD ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14TH, ONLY e
FAX #: 463-6918 @B

= PHONE: 463-1712 >
125 W, NELSON ST. » LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA * ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

 

 

 

   

 

 

Everyday Low Price On CDs $13.49

Box Seats and Double Discs Excluded
January Specials
Sundays rent 2 movies get 3rd movie
Free (99* movies excluded)

Also on Sundays, Nintendo and Super
Nintendo rentals only 99
Top 50 Country Cassettes $7.99
Mastercharge and Visa Accepted

Stonewall Square 463-9800

 

 

 

 

 

Spend this summer in Wyoming, working at one of
America’s premier guest ranches. Positions are avail-
able in all areas of guest services. This is an ideal si-

tuation for seniors who want to do something really
special before starting their careers. The Ranch Man-
ager will be interviewing on campus February 6. If
you would like to see a brochure, obtain an applica-
tion, or schedule an interview, check with the Career
Development Office. Question! Call Bob or Margie
Howe at (303) 670-1323.

 

‘
The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1992

SPORTS

Page 7

 

Women’s swimming fights flu at Swarthmore

 

By ERIN MCKINNEY
Phi Staff Reporter

 

A depleted Washington and Lee
women’s swimming team lost to
Swarthmore last Saturday, 123-72.

The team has been hit by the flu
epidemic that has swept the country
and is having trouble keeping

everyone healthy.
The lack of healthy swimmers

 

has hurt the team in the last couple of
meets.

The Generals only had seven of
their regular nine swimmers against
Swarthmore, but coach Kiki Jacobs
didn’t try to use it as an excuse for
the loss.

“I’m not certain that we would
have won if we had had all of our
swimmers,’’ said Jacobs, ‘‘but the
meet would have been much more

 

y Leig i
Freshman John Rogers scores two of his career-high 14 points in
Wednesday night’s game against Hampden-Sydney.

ie Ring-tum Phi

competitive.”

Despite the low numbers, Jacobs
was pleased with her team’s
performance.

“Considering the long road trip
we made, we swam really well,’’
Jacobs said.

Senior Jodi Herring led the
W&L effort. She took first place in
the 1000-yard freestyle and the 500-
yard freestyle, plus second in the 200-

yard butterfly.

Junior Claire Dudley had yet
another strong meet. She captured
first place in the 100-yard freestyle
and took second in the 200-yard
freestyle and the 200-yard breastroke.

Freshman Susan Fisher also had
a very good meet. She won the 100-
yard backstroke and claimed second
in the 200-yard individual medley.

ODAC’s top three teams
top struggling Generals

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Sports Editor

ESPN college basketball analyst
Dick Vitale came to Lexington on
Wednesday and brought his sense of
the big-time with him.

The Washington and Lee
basketball team has gotten a good
look at the big time of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference this
past week, and the Generals found the
going rough.

The league’s top three teams,
Bridgewater, Emory and Henry and
Hampden-Sydney ll sent the
Generals home empty-handed and
dropped W&L’s record to 5-12 and 2-
9,

 

But the losses weren’t all bad,
said head coach Verne Canfield.

“I just wish we could put two
halves together,’’ he said. ‘‘We’ll
play one good half and then have a
lapse that takes us out of the game.’’

Against Bridgewater Friday
night, the Generals trailed by 11 at
the half, but rallied to cut the lead to
six before finally falling 78-71. At
E&H on Monday, W&L trailed 35-31
at the half but went cold in the
second half and lost 83-69. And last
night at the Warner Center, the
Generals trailed just 36-30 to start the
second half, but again went cold, and

H-SC went on to an 84-63 win.

“‘We can play with anybody,”’
said Canfield. ‘‘But we think about
playing with the top teams too much
and that causes the lapses.’’

Against the Tigers, senior Mark
Melton and sophomore Robert
Miggins scored to start the second
half, but Russell Turner led an 11-2
H-SC run that opened up a 47-32
lead.

After W&L cut the lead back to
10 at 59-49, the Tigers sent on an 8-2
run to ice the game.

Freshman John Rogers provided
the highlight of the second half with
his breakaway dunk at the final
buzzer. Rogers led W&L with a
career-high 14 points. Junior Bryan
Watkins, the team’s leading scorer on
the season, scored 12 points, 11 in the
second half.

Watkins scored 23 points in the
loss to Bridgewater and 19 in the loss
at Emory and Henry.

Despite the losses, Canfield is
pleased with the effort his team has
put out.

“We are going through an on-
going learning process, and I’m
pleased we’ve maintained our work
ethic,’’ he said. ‘‘We haven’t quit or
given up. We’re still working hard to
improve.”’

Jacobs is optimistic about the
team’s upcoming schedule although
she admits that it will be tough.

“Trying to keep everybody
healthy is the key,’’ Jacobs said.

The Generals next meet is
against Bridgewater this Saturday at
10 a.m. in Twombly Pool.

The Generals are also starting to
look ahead to the Old Dominion
Athleitic Conference Championships

beginning Feb. 21.
“*Soon we’ ll be concentrating on
resting for ODACs,’’ Jacobs said.

This year’s women’s team will
be the smallest one to ever compete
in the championships.

“Tt will be a good win if we
can pull it off,’’ said Jacobs.

 

They’re back

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, W&L

 

 

Since when do W&L students paint their faces to go to the
Warner Center? When the Roanoke Maroons come to
Lexington for a basketball game. The Maroons play the
Generals Saturday night at 7:30 in the Warner Center.

 

 

 

 

E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

Valley TrueVale. Hardware

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

“Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00

Sun. 1:00-5:00
463-2186

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TW&WIifét

Outlet Stores

Don’t forget to shop in our new BARGAIN ROOM

30 S. Main Street
R.E. Lee Building
9:30-5:30, Mon.-Sat.

463-9730

50-80% Savings on Nationally Advertised
Catalog Brands

 

 

 

 

New Apartments for 1992

Leases are now being taken for August 1992 occupancy of
twelve new apartments to be located in the former Lyric
Theater building on Main Street. There will be four one-
bedroom apartments and eight two-bedroom apartments. Each
is equipped with kitchen appliances, window coverings,
energy efficient heat, air conditioning, and a secured laundry

facility on each floor.

ONE MONTH’S FREE RENT will be given to all parties
leasing an apartment before January 31, 1992.

For more information and to review floor plans contact:

Blue Ridge Design/Build Inc.

26 S. Main Street

Vita & Associates
26 N. Main Street

K&W Office Equipment

463-7563

or
463-9551

 

 

 

ee set your sights a little
igher. Which

is what applying
for the American Express®

You can get a lot more out of life when

   
  
   
  

Depending on where you fly, each
school year travel certifi-

trip—and each summer travel

soci ME fe

 

Youve Just Been Cleared
For Take Off

cate is good for
$129 or $189 round-

ne wees set

the Card will say a lot about you. For one
thing it says you have a handle on what you
spend, so you dont have to carry over a bal-
ance. It also says youre smart enough not to
pay interest charges that can really add up.

 

 

 

Card is all about. When you get the certificate is good for $149 or So take a few minutes
Card, it’ easier to do the things youwant — $199 roundtrip. Airfare examples now to call (have
do. And with th d ., based on destination. bank add
to do. And with the student savings that Savings that upgrade Yourschoot | your bank address
come along with it, you can do even more. your lifestyle Se i ey and account number
. lew York-Los Angeles
Fly roundtrip on Continental As a student Cardmember you one bee ready), and apply

for less than $100 each San Francisco-Denver $129 for the American

or less than each way, get more than great travel sav- Sana
5 os Express Card.

tudent Cardmembers receive four travel _ings. You also save money on everything

 

With all that the Card offers you, not
even the sky is the limit.
THE CARD.
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS® CARD,

certificates. They can be used to fly any-
where Continental Airlines flies in the
48 contiguous United States. Two for the
school year, and two for the summer*

from clothing to long distance phone calls.
All for a $55 annual i.
Obviously, savings like these say a lot

about the value of the Card. And having

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

"20% Discount on all
non-sale items to students”

Get going, call 1-800-967A MEX.

(703) 463-1620

 

 

If you're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call TRAVEL
1 1 E Nelson Street *School year is considered Sept. I-June 14, summer June 15-Aug. 31, Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive with your certificates RELATED
. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines’ performance ® SERVICES
Lexington, VA 24450 © 1992 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc An American Express company
VISA, MC, AMEX

 

 

 

 
 

 

Basketball - BC

 

This week’s scores:
Wrestling - 7th at W&L Invit

78, W&L 71;

E&H 83, W&L 69; H-SC 84, W&L 63
Men’s Swimming - W&L 120, Swarth. 67
Women's Swimming- Swarth 123, W&L 72
Track - M&W at separate relays

 

 

>

Che Ring-tum Phi

PORTS

 

Wrestling -

 

|

Next week’s games:

Basketball - 2/1 (h) Roanoke, 2/5 (a) VWC
1/31 at Mid South Tourney
Women's Swimming - 2/1 Bridgewater
Men's Track - 2/1 at Lynchburg
Women's Track -

2/1 at Virginia Tech

 

PAGE 8

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Confidence. It’s what separates
the good from the great. Without it,
even the most talented teams lose.

Right now, the Washington &
Lee men’s swimming team’s cup
runneth over with confidence. Last
Saturday, the Generals traveled to
Swarthmore and dismantled the host
team, 120-67.

The effort was W&L’s third
straight convincing win. This time
was different, though. The Generals,
5-4 on the season, overpowered their
opponents on the road. For coach
Page Remillard, that’s an even bigger

Vitale calls a
T.O. at W&L

By STEVE FUGITTE
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

Dick Vitale had a capacity crowd
at Washington and Lee’s Warner
Center gasping for breath Wednesday
night.

ESPN’s top college basketball
analyst spoke on topics ranging from
hoops to happiness in his usual
machine gun style.

Vitale is speaking in support of
his new book, Time Out, Baby. The
book recounts the 1990-1991
basketball season from  Vitale’s
unique perspective.

Used to crowds upwards of
22,500 in the Rupp Arena and Smith
Centers of America, W&L’s Warner
Center was a change of venue for the
analyst who usually attends the
biggest games in the country.

Although not the big-time, Vitale
had nothing but good things to say
about Generals’ basketball.

“‘They don’t have a lot of size or
bulk, but they got heart, baby,”’
Vitale said after viewing W&L’s 21-
point loss to Hampden-Sydney.

Vitale admitted being in W&L’s
high school-sized gym brought back
memories of coaching high school

boost to his team’s confidence.

““We have a young team and
they’re beginning to catch up,’’ said
Remillard. ‘“They now know they can
win on the road, and that’s going to
be a big help the rest of the way.’’

The young members of the
team stepped up again at Swarthmore.
Freshman Roland Chase won the 100-

yard freestyle, classmate Grant
Holicky won the 200-yard
breaststroke, and rounding out the trio
of first-year swimmers, Tony
Diederich won the 200-yard
backstroke.

However, W&L’s more

experienced trio wasn’t to be outdone.
Senior Doug Brown, junior Andrew

 

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

Men’s swimming wins big, again

Pearson and freshman John Rowe
have been the team’s most consistent
swimmers all year.

Brown picked up two more
victories with wins in the 1,000-yard
freestyle and the 500-yard freestyle,
Pearson won the 50-yard freestyle,
and Rowe continued his impressive
season with victories in the 200-yard
izm, and the 200-yard butterfly.

W&L won’t swim again until
Feb. 8 at Mary Washington. While
the team will maintain its practice

schedule, not having a meet for a

while is a welcome break for the
swimmers.
‘It’s nice to have a weekend

off,’’ said junior Chris Hagge.

 

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

ESPN's Dick Vitale signs copies of his book Time Out, Baby in the

and college basketball.

After clawing his way to the head
coaching job of the Detroit Pistons,
Vitale couldn’t believe he was getting
paid so much to coach a game he
loved.

“I deserved more money when |
was teaching at the high school
level,’’ he said.

Vitale’s dismissal from the
Pistons led him to broadcasting,
where he developed the unique style
he brought to ESPN in the 1979-1980

W&L Bookstore yesterday. Vitale also spoke in the Warner Center.

basketball season. His legend has
been increasing ever since.

He was voted Sports Personality
of the Year in 1989 by the American
Sportscasters Association, an honor
that comes from his peers.

But the success has not gone to
“Dickie V’s’’ head. He loves what he
does.

“I’ve got it made. Getting paid to
watch the best players in the nation
night in and night out. Its been fun
city, U.S.A.”’

 

 

If you never thought™
anything that started with

dent prices and affordable

 

be easy to use, an IBM Personal System will
change all that. With preloaded, user-friendly
software like Microsoft® Windows™ 3.0, just
turn iton and you'll be ready to work—polish-
ing off term papers, moving text and graphics
with the click of a mouse. Work can be—fun.
IBM offers a variety of Selected Academic
Solutions*—a range of PS/2® and PS/I™
models to choose from. And with special peed

“After | plugged
itin everything

clicked for me?”

 

IBM could —

loan payments¥*

Ths offer is available to nonprofit higher education institutions, thei students, faculty and stall, as well as to nonprofit K-12 institutions, thei faculty and staff

These IBM Selected Academic Solutions are available through participating campus outlets, IBM Authorized PC Dealers certified to remarket Selected Academic
Solutions or IBM 1 800 222-7257 Orders are subject to availability and IBM may withdraw the offer at any time without notice. **PS/2 Loan tor Learning lets

you borrow $1,500-$8,000. t The Bonus Pack expires December 31, 1991. IBM and PS/2 are registered trademarks and PS/1 is a trademark of International

Business Machines Corporation Microsoft is a registered trademark and Windows 1s a trademark of Microsoft Corporation. © 1991 IBM Corp

they’re even easy to buy. Act
now and you'll get a special Bonus Packt worth
over $1,000 in savings on air travel, phone
calls, software and more. You probably didn’t
expect that, either. Well,
you learn something new
every day. After all, isn’t
that what college is all
about? Visit your campus
outlet to find out how to
make an] BM Personal
System click for you.

CAMPUS CONTACT
MIKE SANDRIDGE
463-5295

   
   
 

 

 

See

January 30, 1992

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, W&L

Senior Peer Soderberg gains the upper hand on an co-captain won twice en route to a second- -place
opponent in Saturday's W&L Invitational. W&L’s finish in the 177-pound weight class.

Soderberg places second in Invitational

 

By JACOB KIMBALL
Phi Staff Reporter

In the 15th annual Washington
and Lee Invitational, the Generals as
a team had an off day, but co-captain
Peer Soderberg continued to wrestle
impressively.

Longwood captured the team
championship with 81 points, La
Salle’s  Vinne Ermst was the
tournament’s Outstanding Wrestler,
and Soderberg was by far W&L’s
best wrestler.

Soderberg extending his match
winning streak to six by handily
defeating his first two opponents,

In the first round, Soderberg
opened a 14-0 lead against Daniel
Roadcap of Newport News
Apprentice before pinning him. He

 

: shut out Bryan Hartley of Longwood

in the second round to earn a shot at
the 177-pound championship,
something he desparately wanted.

“I came close in the three
previous years, so I really wanted to
win it,’’ said Soderberg.

Soderberg’s obstacle to the
championship was NNA fifth-year
senior Art Whitaker. Soderberg was
shaken by his more experienced
opponent.

“I was not intimidated by him
because we were physically even,”’
he said. ‘‘But, even though we were
equal in terms of strength, his
experience gave him the edge.’’

Whitaker defeated Soderberg
and ended his six-match winning
streak.

Despite the defeat, Soderberg
has been content with his
performance of late.

MONEY

FOR COLLEGE

Every student is eligible for some

type of financial ai

regardiess

of grades or parental income.

Financial Aid |

HUH em cniiniaerriCa hm

Special grants program
Every student eligible

No one turned down
Simple application

en P&H

fundable) to:
Student Services

P. O. Box 22-4026
Holl

ywood, FL 33022

  

ee ee

snowboard ski are just $10.

|
|
|
|
|
|
2
|
|
|
|
|
|
L

Shred Center.

 

Enjoy winter's newest challenge, Snowboard Skiing at
Massanutten. Hone your skills as you rip from peak to base.

Show your skills on our challenging half
Snowboard skiing is permitted onal
trails, including our two new slopes from the top of the moun-
tain. Lessons and limited rentals are also available.
College Twilight skiing rates ($12) apply on Monday and
Friday. With your valid college ID and this ad, lift tickets to

Come ski what's new at Massanutten.

MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

pipe.
open slopes and

]

‘*T wasn’t happy with the way
I wrestled before Christmas break, but
two law school students, Mike
Carlson and Sam Roots, have been
wrestling with me at practice,’’ he
said. ‘‘Now, I am pleased with my
wrestling.’’

Five W&L wrestlers placed in
the top four of their weight classes.
John Cochran, Adam Williams, John
Cherry, John Conkling, joined
Soderberg in the top four.

The team plans to bounce
back in this weekend’s Mid-South

tournament in Jefferson City,
Tennessee.

W&L’s task this weekend is
simple.

‘All we need to do is be more
focused and aggressive.”’

NEY

CLUB SOFTBALL
If interested, call Meredith Gronroos
at 464-5541

bsicieiiiiiniiieaianiad

 

 

 

 

 

 

= =
aucdiotronics
We Sell the Best Seats in the House
DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
MONSTER OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Weekdays on |

WLUR
oT.0 |

6:30 - 9 a.m.
Morning Mag
9 - 11:15 a.m.
A.M. Overture
or New Age Music
11:15 - 12 p.m.
Noon News &
Public Affairs
12 - 2 p.m.
Country Music
2 - 3:30 p.m.
Classic Rock
3:30 - 5:45 p.m.
Breakthrough Radio
5:45 - 6 p.m. 4
Home News Report
6 - 9:30 p.m.
Classical Showcase
9:30 - 12 a.m.
Jazz or Classic Rock
12 - 2 a.m,
Third Ear

 

 

 

denienties

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a
