“

-

INVVERSI BrAR
WASHINGTON & LEE UN VEXHBITY
/ VU TORN, VA. 24460

iv*

The Bing-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 7

Rush begins
for women

_ 106 freshmen sign up Friday

 

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

More than 200 women attended
the women’s Greek Rally Friday to
welcome Pi Beta Phi as W&L’s
fourth sorority.

Freshmen and upperclass women
were encouraged to attend the rally to
hear Pi Beta Phi’s presentation about
their national sorority and their hopes
for the colony here at Washington
and Lee.

Panhellenic Rush Chairman Bran-
non Aden told PHC that 109 women
signed up to rush in January, and 106
of the women were freshmen.

‘‘We would like to see more up-
perclass women register to rush,”
PHC President Dale Wyatt told the
council Tuesday night. ‘‘There is a
great opportunity for them even in a
new group to become leaders.’’

Pi Beta Phi will be rushing in
January with W&L’s three existing

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

sororities, Chi Omega, Kappa Kappa
Gamma, and Kappa Alpha Theta.
Active members of these groups also
attended the rally to show their sup-
port of PHC expansion.

Pi Beta Phi Grand Vice President
of Membership Carolyn Lesh said
W&L PHC has been helpful in incor-
porating the new group.

“Dale Wyatt and Panhellenic have
been helping us tremendously, and I
am happy with our working relation-
ship,’’ Lesh said.

Lesh also said the quota adjust-
ment, which will allow Pi Beta Phi
to get 50 percent of the rushees while
the other three groups each get 16
percent, will help to assure a strong
colony.

Pi Beta Phi expressed interest in
returning to W&L sometime before
December break to give a more for-
mal information presentation to the

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

women.
Women can register for Rush with
their Rush counselors until Nov. 1.

Women sign up for Rush at the Greek Rally Friday. More than 200
women attended the event. Pi Beta Phi made a presentation to

OCTOBER 24, 1991

 

Photo by Lindsay Coleman, The Ring-tum Phi

kick off its colonization as W&L’s fourth sorority. The deadline for
women to sign up for Rush is Nov. 1.

Administration plans to expand campus security

 

review is an on-going process.

home.

By Cathy Lopiccolo
News Editor

 

W&L administrators are searching for ways to
improve the campus security system and make
students more responsible for their personal safety.

Dean of Students David Howison said a review
of the campus security system has been going on
since August, when Michael Young took over as
the new director of security.

During the time Young has been conducting the
review, four women have reported being raped or
sexually assaulted near campus.

In the most recent incident, a Washington and
Lee freshman reported being raped by a Virginia
Military Institute cadet in her Gilliam dormitory
room. The cadet was able to enter the woman’s
room while she slept because she had left her door
unlocked, Lexington police said.

Young said he has begun evaluating the se-
curity systems in several buildings and that the

Computer
to help
collect tax

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

 

A computer system scheduled for
installation next month will allow
Lexington’s treasury to more easily
collect the car tax.

The City Council appropriated
about $5,000 at its Oct. 3 meeting to
bring the tax department on-line with
the computerized registration records
from the Virginia Department of
Motor Vehicles.

‘This is a very crucial tool for us
to levy a personal property tax,’’ City

Since he has begun his evaluation, Young said
he has recommended additional lighting between
the University Library and Woods Creek Apart-
ments, which has already been installed. He said
other lighting around campus is adequate, in his
opinion.

In addition, Young and Howison said they are
looking into installing more emergency phones on
campus. Young said there are already four emer-
gency phones on campus, but they are in remote
areas and are not well-marked. He said there are
phones at the Pavillion, near the football stadium,
by the Military Science Building, and in the
freshman parking lot. :

“Right now, it’s difficult for people to find [the
emergency phones], and students need to know
where they are,’’ Young said.

Students on campus are also finding ways to
protect each other. Howison said junior Andrew
Tucker and senior Jay Gabbard have proposed an
escort service in which students walk other students

 

Administrators stressed, however, that in order
for any security system to work, students must take
some personal responsibility for their safety.

‘‘There’s not enough money in the world to
hire a personal bodyguard for every student on
campus,’’ Associate Dean of Students Leroy C.
‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins said.

Associate Dean of Students for Freshmen and
Residence Life Dennis Manning and Howison said
the Honor System may be part of the reason
students don’t think they need to lock their doors.

‘The Honor System lulls us into a false sense
of security,’ Manning said. ‘You can still promote
the Honor System and be vigilant about your safety
and your other dormmates.”*”

Howison, Atkins and Young said they also
consider alcohol to be a major problem in safety.

‘‘People are not as likely to practice good
security when they’re intoxicated,’’ Young said.
“I’ve been surprised at the number of people who
walk around at night in a state of intoxication.’’

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

The site plan for two new fraternity houses in Davidson Park, Sigma Chi at left and Sigma Phi
Epsilon, drew City Council fire for a basketball court that might be visible from Nelson Street.

Council OKs two new houses

Rape suspect faces new
charge of grand larceny

 

By Thomas Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Chad Hudnall, the former VMI
cadet accused of raping a W&L
woman Oct. 13, has been charged
with stealing $354 from another
W&L woman the same night.

Hudnall, 18, who is being held in
Rockbridge Regional Jail, was charg-
ed with one count of grand larceny
and one count of breaking and enter-
ing with the intent to commit larceny.

He was also charged with one

count of felony breaking and entering
with the intent to commit rape and
one count of intent to commit rape.
He already faced charges of rape and
sodomy.

Lexington Chief of Police Bruce
Beard said Hudnall entered the room
of Christin Harvey, '93, and stole
about $600 from a purse in her
dresser. Police recovered $354.

At the time of the incident on
Oct. 13, Hudnall was free on $6,000
bond stemming from indictments in
Newport News, Va., on burglary and
grand larceny.

 

 

Manager T. Jon Ellestad said.
Lexington currently levies a per-
sonal property tax on cars of $4.25
per $100 of the vehicle’s assessed
value. The city’s attempts to collect
the tax from students at Washington
and Lee were met with outrage from

, students last year.

In response to the protests, the
city council agreed to ‘‘pro-rate’’ the
car tax, not requiring students to pay
for the months the car is not kept in
Lexington.

Commissioner of Revenue Court-
ney Baker said the new system was
necessary to pro-rate the tax,

‘We are entitled access to the
information,’’ Baker said. ‘‘l am now
studying ways to pro-rate the tax at
the request of the City Council.’’

Until recently, the city obtained
registration information from a similar
computer system used by police. But
the state police told Lexington in
August that sharing such information
was inappropriate, Ellestad said.

The DMV records also give the
social security numbers of tax of-
fenders, Ellestad said.

By Rick Peltz
Editor

 

Lexington City Council approved
site plans for the new Sigma Chi and
Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity houses
in Davidson Park, despite debate over
the visibility of a basketball court.

University Coordinator of Capital

sured the city planning commission
that Washington and Lee will add
trees along Nelson Street if noise
becomes a problem.

But at the Oct. 17 council meet-
ing, the city was more concerned
about shielding from Nelson Street
the basketball court that will run
along the proposed houses’ courtyard.

Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins, as-
sociate dean of students for Greek

affairs, said he would like the court
to be visible so community residents
can see fraternity members playing
sports, rather than ‘‘standing around
with a beer.’’

Mayor H.E. ‘‘Buddy’’ Derrick
suggested W&L build a low, grassy
hill along the court to obscure it from
sight. Parsons agreed to consider that
option, but said he is not qualified to
say if it will work.

 

A

Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi

   

Nice knitting

Junior Joan Sharp shows off her knitting skills to three
visitors to the first annual Festival of the Arts held Sunday
afternoon in front of the University Library. The festival was
sponsored by W&L’s new Exhibitionists Club and featured
entertainment and displays of arts and crafts.

 

 

Planning Frank Parsons earlier as-

 

City amends zoning law to limit student housing

 

By Rick Peltz
Editor

 

Lexington City Council passed a measure on
Oct. 17 intended to discourage investors from
buying city housing to rent to students.

The city hopes the changes in law will leave
more housing on the market for low-income
families,

One of the zoning law amendments removes
the council’s power to issue permits allowing
more than three unrelated people to live toge-

ther in a single family home. Existing permits
can be renewed.

Another amendment reduces the number of
unrelated people who can live together from
four to three. Homes with four unrelated people
cohabitating now must register with the city
within six months.

At a public hearing before the council
meeting, The Rev. James Harris of First Baptist
Church on Main Street was the first citizen to
speak on the zoning amendments.

“With the completion of the fraternity
houses, there should now be enough room to

house students,’’ Harris said. ‘‘The citizens who
provide long-term support for Lexington should
be rewarded with affordable housing.”’

Lexington resident Paul Penick disagreed
with the amendments, questioning the council’s
legal ground to pass them.

Penick said since married people are con-
sidered related, the zoning law discriminates
against unmarried people living together.

City Manager T. Jon Ellestad said he had
never worked for a district without zoning laws
that did not distinguish unmarried from married
people.

No students spoke at the hearing.

Associate Dean of Student for Greek Affairs
Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins spoke at the hearing,
but said he represented himself, not Washing-
ton and Lee,

‘“My fear is that if you reduce the number
of people you keep pushing available housing
down and create economic competition for the
affordable, entry-level housing,’’ Atkins said,

Mayor H.E. ‘‘Buddy’’ Derrick said vacan
cies in the city are abundant, so he does not
believe the situation Atkins described will
occur,

 

IMWO
SISTH

 

 

|The essential guide to
‘The essential guide’

page 4

 

 

Bucks beware, hunting
season begins in Va.

 

page 5

 

 

 

 
 

Page 2

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

Campus in crisis:
ideas for the Hill

As was noted here a week ago, action to stem the
rising tide of violence at our university must be taken.
The reports of rapes have shocked us all, and the violence
and dangerous mayhem at fraternity parties, while par for
the course, are still appalling.

There are three courses that can be taken at this point.
Students and administrators can take the attitude that
there’s nothing that can be done, that things will always
be the way they are. This option is unlikely. Another
option is for students to think it is up to the
administration to change their policies to protect everyone
while at the same time administrators decide it’s up to the
students to change their attitudes and habits. This option is
frightening, and it’s entirely too possible. Obviously the
best option is for students and administrators to work
together to solve the problems that have been displayed in
new and shocking ways in the past months.

We don’t profess to have all the answers to the
problems; it will take everyone working together to
change things. As reported elsewhere in this issue, certain
members of the administration have begun planning new
programs to try to educate and protect students. We
applaud their actions and call for others to join them. This
week, we have two suggestions of our own for the
administration:

First, the admissions office must stop lying to high
schoolers. They insist on telling prospective freshmen that
Lexington is a safe haven from the rest of the world.
This week we have heard tour guides telling parents that
their children won’t ever have to lock their doors in the
dorms because everyone trusts each other here. We
understand that the safety of little Lexington is one of the
major drawing points for the university, but crime does
happen here. The admissions office practice of showing
the community through rose-colored glasses only serves to
lower a student’s guard and make him or her more
susceptible to the crime that does occur.

Julia Kozak, associate director of admissions and
coordinator of the Student Recruitment Committee, said
there is no policy on what tour guides tell prospectives
about security at W&L. She said she’ll suggest that they
tone down the rhetoric about trust and safety, but she
won’t be able to do it until next term because that’s when
their next meeting is scheduled. It shouldn’t be too much
trouble for Mrs. Kozak to call a meeting now and stop
tour guides from misleading high school students and their
parents in order to stop next year’s freshmen’ from’ putting
themselves at risk.

Second, while a number of different deans have gone
to great pains to inform members of this staff that alcohol
is a primary factor in most cases of assault (sexual or
other) on this campus, we suggest that they expend their
energy on informing the rest of the students of their
findings. Alcohol was not mentioned as a factor in either
of the two memos that Dean Howison issued to the
student body after the three recent reports of sexual
assault on campus.

The fact is, alcohol was a factor in all three cases.
Unfortunately, if a woman who is sexually assaulted says
she was drunk at the time, many people will lose
sympathy for her and believe she got what she asked for.
If the reason behind the administration’s lack of full
disclosure is to protect the feelings of the victim, it is
understandable, but still a mistake. The greater good must
be looked to. Only if other students know that some
people will take advantage of them when their defenses
are down, will they think ahead and avoid such situations.
Warning freshmen during hall meeting circle sharing about
the dangers of alcohol is not nearly as effective as telling
them that students have been raped and injured and that
alcohol played a part in the violence.

Next week, at the risk of preaching a sermon, we will
end our three-part editorial with some suggestions for the
student body. Our aim, as always in this column, is to
encourage everyone to make Washington and Lee as good
as we all know it can be.

 

OPINION

 

 

 

 

A wtLk stTodveNT ween

HIS PROe@TIES IN LINS:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Se 6 O
0 =o § 29
A = ¢ «
0 Jey WoeLh So” &
—~fa +
=>
=—_>

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1991

Wé&L’s problem.

MY VIEW
By Katherine Walther

 

 

It’s pretty easy to blame the administration for the
lack of enthusiasm concerning Alcohol Awareness Month.’
But, considering that I can’t remember the last time |,
saw Dean Howison doing a beer bong or President Wil-
son taking shots, I really don’t think the administration’
has a problem. I do, however, think that the student body,
has a problem.

What could the administration say or do that wouldn’t’
reach deaf ears? They can’t make speeches like Mr. Gre-,
en’s mandatory. They can’t force students to stop drink-
ing. Everything they do to try to ‘‘tone things down’’ is!
met with anger and resentment.

It is time the W&L community stopped blaming ev-
eryone else for its own problem. We are the ones who’

 

0.4. , \osT On moee

INNING , THEN id.
sTaer My HOMEWORK ooo

MAYBE,

ing,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mauo4 |

 

sit in the Co-op and brag about getting wasted. We leave,
tests and say ‘‘I’m going to go get hammered.’’ We are
the ones who choose not to party without alcohol. What’
has alcohol accomplished for our school? We have DUIs,

hospital injuries, alcoholism, incidents of rape, and even
deaths. What else do we need to force us to face our;
problem?

While it is a problem of the W&L community, it'
must be solved on a personal level. I ask that all people,
reading this article think about their own drinking habits.
You don’t need a survey to tell you if you have a drink-’
ing problem.

I personally sat down in a state of shock after the
events of the past few weeks as I realized that I was!
afraid to go out and drink because of what could happen |
to me. I began thinking about my own drinking habits. ‘
As a freshmen I thought I would never drink. Four years :
later, I find that do. Sometimes I drink responsibly, and
sometimes irresponsibly.

Here are some ideas which I began to ponder: Why ,
do we congratulate each other for getting ‘‘butt-wasted’’?
We should not brag; we should be embarrassed. Why do
we need to be nearly inebriated to enjoy a party? Are ,
our parties really that unbearable? Why can’t we have a.
good time being sober? Many of us don’t even try. ‘

_ Perhaps we don’t because many of us think that
parties like the freshmen icebreaker games and mixers’
were immature. ‘‘You aren’t cool unless you’re drink- :

”

was the implication. Well, I want to congratulate

the freshmen because they have a hell of a lot more’
courage than some of the upperclassmen. It does take ,
backbone to talk to people when you are sober. It does
take courage to kiss someone. It does take nerve to be’
answerable to your activities the next day rather than ,
saying ‘‘I was really drunk.’’

Freshmen year I wanted to cry out ‘‘What are we |
doing to ourselves and each other? People are being j
killed.’’ But I thought I was an oddball. I’m not. We do
have a problem. As a collective whole we have a‘
problem with alcohol, and it will take courage to solve it. -

Meaning depends on interpretation :

Cartoon did not show | a Tack of judgement, did not deal with harassment issue . . ’

 

MY VIEW
By J. MacGregor Tisdale

 

I am writing in response to a letter to the
Editor which appeared in your October 17 issue.
The subject in question is Timothy Molloy’s
political cartoon portraying Ms. Anita Hill, publish-
ed October 10. In the above mentioned letter, the
author questions the ‘‘good sense and taste, not to
mention fact’’ of the cartoon and accuses Mr.
Molloy of belittling the charges that were placed
before the Senate Judiciary Committee. The author
also believes that the editors of your paper demon-
strate a ‘‘lack of good judgement’’ for letting the
cartoon go to press. I would like to address the
author’s points separately.

The first issue of whether the cartoon represents
taste, good sense, and judgement is subjective, that
is, it is different depending on the individual.
Anyone who has studied Political Action Commit-
tees knows that their mere existence is controver-
sial both historically (James Madison expressed his
disapproval for such factions in The Federalist
Papers) and currently. The actions of PACs (some

Religious fundamentalism and the Braves:

of which opposed the nomination of Judge Clar-
ence Thomas on the basis of abortion and civil
rights) are also suspect. In my interpretation of
the cartoon in question, the suitcase full of money
represents possible foul play involving PACs. The

 

Little was accomplished in
determining Judge Thomas’
ability to interpret the law.
Personal lives and family
background have relatively
little to do with such ability.

inclusion of Senator Kennedy’s name simply ques-
tions the credibility of the Judiciary Committee
membership. Thank goodness Mr. Molloy had the
‘‘good sense’’ to bring out this point. The cartoon
might not be based on fact but it is the cartoonists
prerogative to speculate on issues if he so chooses.

The author believes that Mr. Molloy belittled
‘‘the serious charges’’ of sexual harassment. He
did not belittle the issue but instead placed this
delicate and difficult issue aside for others. The

 

main’ one being’ the process at which’ thé he,
mittee handled the nomination hearings. Little was’
accomplished i in determining Judge Thomas’ ability »
to interpret the law. Personal lives and family |
background have relatively little to do with such ’
ability. For example, Justice Oliver Wendell Hol- »
mes is considered by many to be the best ever to,
sit on the Supreme Court. His aristocratic back-’
ground and conservative idealogy had little to do
with his liberal voting record.

Finally, the author questioned The Ring-tum '
Phi’s professionalism and judgement i in publishing /
the cartoon. A political cartoon is a device used by |
the cartoonist to express his personal opinions. The '
opinion in the cartoon was that of Mr. Molloy’s, ;
not the newspaper. Any editorial page has several
instruments of political expression including edit- '
orials, cartoons, and letters to the editor. The,
author of the letter in question and Mr. Molloy |
each used one of these devices. Mr. Kelley and ’
Mr. Peltz have allowed all opinions to be voiced, ,
hereby maintaining their professionalism. My single |
hope is that the author, being a member of the’
American Civil Liberties Union, was not disputing ;
Mr. Molloy’s right to civil liberties,

?

}

¢

How religion has clouded the state of your eternal soul, and other deep thoughts |

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley

Cathy Lopiccolo
Courtney Hall

Joshua Manning

Jay Plotkin

Fran Kefalas

Craig Burke

Leigh Allen

Tim Molloy

News Editor

Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor
Entertainment Editor
Assignments Editor
Photo Editor
Cartoonist

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208

of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

LET IT RIDE
By Chris Swann

 

The religions of the world are the ejaculations
of a few imaginative men.

— Ralph Waldo Emerson

Ever wonder how people choose their religious
affectations? You know, why Catholic instead of
Protestant, Muslim instead of Jew, deist versus
atheist. I know all types, including a sect I call
‘‘Nature Buddhists’ (according to this religion,
we're all like flowers: we grow, and then we die),
and most people don’t know why they’re what they
are, except that their parents were ‘‘brand X’’ and
so they are, too. Kind of a random determination
on the state of your eternal soul, isn’t it?

Now a humor columnist doesn’t have the
authority to judge religious institutions that have
been in place for hundreds of years (then again,
Ted Kennedy has no place in being on an ethics
committee), but upon examining humans meddling
with the Divine, I get a queasy feeling in the pit
of my stomach. Man has severly botched religion,
Christianity especially. Popes have excommunicated
men for disagreeing with them on religious dogma.
Now that seems a touch severe, don’t you think?

Pope — ‘‘So, you don’t like our little
communion wafers, do you?’’ (As he applies
burning coals to a nonconformist’s feet.)

And how about the Inquisition? ‘‘Agree to our
lies so we can burn you in the name of God, or
suffer the rack.’’ How twisted is that? What would
you do if your teachers employed this little trick?

Unnamed English professor - ‘‘Say _ it!
*‘Milton’s Paradise Lost is the greatest poetic work
of English literature!’ ’’

Long-Suffering English major —
Never!”’

Malignant Man of Letters — ‘‘Have it your
way, fool.’’ (Three turns of the rack and howls of

‘No! No!

pain are heard emanating from Payne Hall.)

Didn’t these people ever hear of negative
reinforcement? I'd love to worship the god of a
sadistic torturer, honest.

While cruel and unusual punishment is not in
great evidence among the various denominations of
today’s Church, they sometimes seem little better.
Take televangelists. Remember when Pat Robertson

 

They all say that God rested
on the seventh day after
creating the universe. Does
the omnipotent God get
tired?

ran for President? He honestly believes God speaks
to him (not that Moses had an exclusive interview
with the Almighty, but give me a break), Could
you imagine what his administration would be like?

Financial Advisers — ‘‘Mr. President, the
homeless are asking for economic aid. They'll
starve next winter if they don’t get it. What should
we do?’’

President Robertson — ‘‘Gentlemen, God came
to me in a vision last night, yea and the waters of
Babylon flowed and the firmament shook, and, in
the most beautiful words I have ever heard uttered,
He said I should let the bastards hang.”’

Religion is a personal matter between me and
my God. It’s not something to have beamed into
my living room by some guy telling me how I’m
going to Hell if I don’t cough up twenty million
bucks for his new condo on Malibu.

The religious dogma that has been acquired
over the years just kills me, like predestination. As
far as I can understand it, God has already chosen
the path of your soul, and you cannot change it. |
like to be kissed before I’m screwed, thank you
very much. Does this mean Saddam Hussein might
end up in Paradise? Makes sense to me, I guess |

 

might as well go shoot up some heroin, and gee,
why not blow away my mailman for a change
since I’m already consigned to one of the two
options. Now there’s an idea that will promote
good deeds and helping one another throughout the
world. ‘

Then we have the fundamentalists. The Bible
becomes the most infallible object since the Ark. °
OK, boneheads, which version? Or, should we all
just learn Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek so we can
read the original manuscripts? They all say that '
God rested on the seventh day after creating the
universe, so does the omnipotent God get tired? A
man (or woman; see, I’m being politically correct) *
wrote the Bible, supposedly several men, and guess
what the Bible is about? Man screwing up and
making God angry. Even Christ gets mad and +
knocks down all the merchant stands.in the temple.
So couldn’t we be a touch off in this otherwise
great work of literature and faith? Nope, sorry, +
you’re going to Hell, forever and ever, amen.

I don’t mean to be bitter. Maybe I’m upset
because as I’m writing this the Braves are down 2-
0 in the World Series. But then I tum on Virginia
television and get this guy who beats his brow ©
with letters from Annie Kate in Blacksburg, who’s |
asking for God to heal her baby brother from
multiple sclerosis, and, in between commercials and ‘
pleas for money, this overly made-up televangelist |
wails up at the heavens for divine intervention. Do
we really have to go through this jerk to talk to
the Almighty?

Now don’t get me wrong. I like the idea of
God, redemption, and the afterlife because I sure
hope life has more meaning than screw others
before they do the same unto you, and I think
Jesus Christ is the greatest person to ever exist °
(Steve Avery of the Braves is second). But I agree ,
with Robin Williams: if Christ comes back, he’s
not going to be a carpenter, he’s going to be a
pissed-off sheet-metal worker asking for Jimmy
Swaggart’s telephone number.
The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1991

 

 

Wilson calls for
new commitment

To the Editor:

Most of us believed it could not happen
here... that somehow our commitment to honor
and civility would shelter us from the violence
which has become all too common on other
campuses across the country. But now, in three
shattering acts of aggression, we have been made
brutally aware that no community in contem-
porary America is immune. Our support and
compassion go out to all who have been affected
by these attacks; students, parents, friends, and
acquaintances.

But the last thing we should do is resign
ourselves to the iniquity of contemporary life.
Instead, we must resolve to marshall all our
resources to put a resounding end to violence,
regardless of its source. We are anything but
powerless at this beginning stage. We have, first
and foremost, a wonderful community of young
men and women who share strength of character.
Together with faculty and staff, our students also
share with each other a deep sense of trust and
a commitment to look after one another. Let us
make sure that we all understand what this
distinctive W&L value entails. It means that we
will step in when strangers are found where they
do not belong, that we will make sure that the
abuse of alcohol is not fostered in our houses,
apartments, or halls, that we will do everything
we possibly can to create an environment in
which sexual exploitation is eliminated... in short,
that we will look after each other and keep each
other, as much as we possibly can, from falling
into harm’s way.

We can and will continue to improve our
formal security measures... modulating security
rounds, improving alarm systems, installing more
lighting where necessary, providing emergency
telephone stations, making sure that students who
feel the need for escort services can quickly and
easily make the necessary arrangements. But,
none of these formal steps will take us half the
way of a renewed, fresh decision to strengthen
our commitment to each other. Let us put an end
to propped doors; casual faith that visitors, much
less strangers, can always be trusted; drinking to
dangerous excess; and any other thoughtless acts
that serves to put ourselves or our friends in
jeopardy.

One of our own has suffered and we can do
nothing to reverse what happened to her. But we
can resolve that it will never happen again. I
hope and pray that all of us will do just that.

Sincerely,
John D. Wilson
President of the University

Hearings give
lessons for W&L

To the Editor:

I am writing in response to the recent events
that have plagued both Washington and Lee and
our nation in the past few weeks. Richard Hill,
in his My View last week, stated that Clarence
Thomas was a winner in the confirmation proc-
ess even though he was attacked by ‘‘the liberal
establishment and by the media’’ and that he
had suffered not the American dream, but the
American nightmare.

While I agree that the way the charge of
sexual harassment was made public was repre-
hensible, those charges did cast a doubt on
Judge Thomas’ ability to serve on the highest
court of this nation. Anita Hill would not have
put herself through that inquisition if she did not

    

 

Page 3

 

OPINION

 

 

 

LETTERS

feel there was a basis for the charges. Even if
the charges are not true, they did manage to
make millions wonder about his moral character
and his ability to serve on the Supreme Court.

The confirmation hearings and what both
Anita Hill and Judge Thomas went through were
disgusting and shameful. The entire process
served to illustrate why so many women fail to
report not just cases of sexual harassment, but
rape as well. The members of the W&L com-
munity who did decide to press charges recently
need all the support they can get. Those women
will face the same, if not worse, questions that
Ms. Hill faced. No woman asks to be raped or
sexually harassed, and the belief that any woman
would want a man to do something so horrible
to her is repulsive.

These incidents have served to illustrate the
state of decline that both W&L and the nation
have succumbed to. Something needs to be done
and it must start with ourselves and our atti-
tudes. We are the future leaders of this country
and it is horrible that our community has come
to this. We all must start thinking before we act
or even speak and realize that our actions affect
everyone around us. Hopefully we can rebuild
our community’s sense of trust before our cold,
heartless underside becomes permanent.

Lee A. Rorrer, '93

Student protection
should be W&L’s
first priority

To the Editor:

Marcus Miller is still on campus, and W&L
is looking away. It is as if every student here on
campus has been lied to; were we not promised
a society in which men will act like gentlemen
and women will act like ladies? Marcus Miller
is by no means a gentlemen — he is a con-
victed criminal.

After all, is not the crime that Marcus has
been accused of much more heinous than throw-
ing a brick through a window; a crime for which
the penalty seems to be one suspended semester?
It is a questionable administration that cares
more for its buildings than for its students.

I can’t imagine the anger that the victim
must be experiencing. W&L is not looking out
for her — instead it is sending out the message
that we cannot rely on the school to protect us
from such deviants of society. Somehow, I
expected more loyalty than that.

Sincerely, . bevel ped ic:
Rebecca K. Parkins, 94 :

CRC to review
harassment policy

To the Editor:

As your readers are well aware, the univer-
sity has a policy prohibiting harassment on the
basis of race, religion, national origin, or sex.
The Confidential Review Committee (CRC) is
the organization charged with enforcing the
university’s policy. The 1991-92 Student Hand-
book contains the policy and the procedures of
the CRC. I write to inform your readers that the
CRC is reviewing that policy and its procedures.

   

The CRC plans to complete its review by Feb.
14, 1992. The CRC’s report will be submitted to
the Student Affairs Committee (SAC), the com-
mittee charged with matters relating to student
life. SAC in turn will report to the university
faculty, with whom the decision rests, giving its
recommendations concerning the CRC’s policies
and the university’s policy on harassment.

I write now to invite the participation of
interested students and student organizations in
the review process. The CRC has established
three mechanisms for seeking student views on
this matter. First, we ask that interested students
and groups submit written comments on the
CRC concerning its policies and procedures.
Second, those individuals and organizations
wishing to address the CRC orally will be
invited to attend a public hearing which will be
scheduled for early January. Finally, those
student organizations who wish to present their
views and recommendations at greater length to
the committee are invited to request time for
such a presentation at a committee meeting this
term. Written submissions and requests to ad-
dress the committee prior to the public hearing
should be addressed to me. My office phone
number is 463-8512. Mail will reach me through
intra-campus mail addressed to Lewis Hall,
office 428.

Sincerely,

Joan M. Shaughnessy

Associate Professor of Law
Confidential Review Committee Chair

Phi unaware of
alcohol program

To the Editor:

I would like to direct the Phi’s awareness to
the efforts of W&L students in providing Al-
cohol Awareness programming throughout the
year — an end to the ‘‘overkill.’’

A select group of W&L Peer Counselors and
students on the Health Education Committee
have recently completed a training program on
alcohol education. The student-run program has
been in the works for some time. This group is
prepared to discuss alcohol-related issues on
campus. Their goal is to reach as many students
as possible with their program. Their message is
one of responsible consumption, not one of
abstinence. Their efforts are not to be limited to
one week.

Were you aware of this program last week
when you described Alcohol Awareness efforts
as ‘‘one week of overkill, 29 weeks of ignor-
ance’’?

I respect the Phi’s right to an opinion, but it
appears that a right and a responsibility have
been confused. You have a right to your opin-
ion. You have a responsibility to the students of
W&L to make that opinion an informed one.

The Phi says there is ‘tremendous room for |

improvement’’ in Alcohol Awareness programm-
ing. It’s unfortunate that you failed to recognize
a tremendous effort by W&L students to increase
awareness.

I encourage you to use me as a contact for
Health Education Committee matters in the
future. The committee meets every Thursday at
3 p.m. in the Arlington Women’s Center if
you’d like to send a reporter.

It would be great if you would do a story on
the new Alcohol Awareness program.

Sincerely,
Christopher J. Bray, °91

Ed. note: This letter is in response to an editor-
ial entitled ‘‘Still unaware’’ that appeared in The
Ring-tum Phi last week.

 

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

 

Politics Flick

The politics department will pre-
sent the film By Dawn's Early
Light on Oct. 30 at 4 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium. The film, a
nuclear war scenario extending
beyond the Cold War, is part of
the Politics Filmfest and is free.

Live Drive

Live Drive offers rides to intoxi-
cated students unable to drive.
Call 463-8947 from 10 p.m. to 2
a.m. any Friday or Saturday night
for a sober ride.

Lost and Found

The following items have been
found: a Hoffritz pocket knife key
chain with one key, a woman’s
gold chain bracelet, a teal blue
woman’s winter jacket. They may
be claimed in room 104 of the
University Center.

Ghost Guides

Sigma Phi Epsilon and Chi
Omega are sponsoring an escort
service for the children of Lexi-
ngton. On Halloween night from
5-8 p.m., parents can bring their
children by Fairfax Lounge and
students will take them trick or
treating safely. Groups will leave
every half hour starting at five,
with the last group leaving at
eight. Parents can pick their
children up after an hour and a
half,

Internships

The following White House inter-
nships are available to interested
students: Presidential Personnel
Office, Office of National Service,
Presidential Advance, and White
House Communications. For more
information contact Prof. Connelly
at 463-8627.

Registrar Info

The 1991-92 Register of Students,
Faculty, and Staff is now avail-
able in the Registrar’s office.
Midterm grades for freshmen and
transfers will be available from
faculty advisers during winter
term registration. Winter term
registration will run Nov. 4-8
from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in
the Registrar’s office.

Writing Help

The Writing Center is now open
Tuesday through Thursday from
7-10 p.m. in Payne 2B. Students
who want help with papers for
classes, lab reports, resumes, job
letters, or any other writing proj-
ects are encouraged to come by
for an individual conference with
an upperclass English major.
Tutors can help you with any
paper at any stage in the writing
process. This service is free and
might improve your grade on
writing assignments.

I-Club Party

The International Club will host a
Halloween party this Saturday at
9 p.m. in the house den. Join us
for international music, food,
costumes, and fun. Also, join us
for pumpkin carving after the club
meeting on Tuesday, Oct. 29.
Both events will be at the Inter-
national House, 8 Lee Ave.

Ariel

The deadline for all students,
faculty, and alumni wishing to
make submissions to the Ariel is
Nov. 1. The submissions will be
accepted through Carol Calkins’
office.

Fantasy Stocks
Interested in winning $25,000?
Then take part in the Fourth
Annual AT&T Collegiate Invest-
ment Challenge. To register, call
1-800-545-1970 by Nov. 15.

Jobs

Seniors seeking jobs in New
York, Philadelphia, and San Fran-
cisco-Los Angeles must submit
resumes for the Selective Liberal
Arts College Consortium by 4
pm. on Nov. 1 in the CDP
office. Anyone seeking jobs in
Atlanta, Washington D.C., New
York, and Chicago are invited to
participate in the Careers '92 job
fair. To be considered for this
fair, submit a resume and cover
letter to the CDP office by Nov.
22s

Mock Con

Interested in joining a state dele-
gation? Sign up for the state of
your choice outside the Mock
Convention office on the second
floor of the University Center.

Pub Board

An early reminder that the
University Publications Board will
meet Monday, Nov. 4 at 8 p.m.
in The Ring-tum Phi office in the
University Center.

Journalists

Journalism majors interested in
joining Sigma Delta Chi, the
Society of Professional Journalists,
who missed Tuesday’s organiza-
tional meeting, can still get
involved. See Prof. Richardson on
the third floor of Reid Hall.

Get It Out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes! Leave « brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office at room 208 of the
University Center.

General Notes
Jameson Leonardi.

compiled by

 

by Teresa Williams

 

Dabney Collier, ’92, .11 Blood-
Alcohol Concentration - ‘A
woodchuck would chuck a lot of
wood if he were chucking wood,”’

date.”’

 

 
   

Interviews and photos

Andy McGuire, ’92, .062 Blood-
Alcohol Concentration —
sorry, I don’t chuck on the first

 

TALKBACK

woodchuck could chuck wood?

 

 

 

“Pm

too much tonight.”’

Kristin Greenough, °92, .126
Blood-Alcohol Concentration
- ‘This woodchuck has chucked

Tom Snedeker, ’92, .2 Blood-
Alcohol Concentration — ‘‘Ne-
ver ask a Navy man if he'll have
another drink because it’s no-
body’s business how much he’s
had already.’’

Andrew Keller, ’92, .153 Blood-
Alcohol Concentration — ‘‘If a
woodchuck chucked as much as

I've chucked, it would upchuck.’’

How much wood would a woodchuck chuck if a

Participants react to the Controlled Drinking Experiment October 16 in the GHQ

 

Chris Jackson, ’92, .12 Blood-
Alcohol Concentration —
**Seven, damn it!”’

 

 
 

 

Page 4

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Barry-Rec and the Modern Dance class incorporate breathing techniques while stretching.

Class works mind and body

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Relax.

That’s essentially what teacher
Collette Barry-Rec wants to get acro-
ss to students enrolled in Physical
Education 178: Modem Dance, a
course unlike any other PE.

“I found the course relaxing but
at the same time invigorating,’’ said
Stacey Morrison, ’89 who took the
course her senior year. ‘‘It was a
completely refreshing change from the
PE curriculum.’

Junior Claudia Kirschhoch is
taking the course now. She described
it as ‘‘a definite break in the hectic
WA&L day.”’

Barry-Rec said the course com-
bines the studies of yoga, movement
consciousness and patterns, balance,
grace, efficiency, and stress reduction.

“I want to diminish the old
wive’s tale that as we get older we
get stiffer,’’ Barry-Rec said.

She begins the course by teaching
students to use their minds to control
their breathing and muscles to over-
ride stress that keeps muscles tense.
Students learn to relax sections of the

 

HARRIS TEETER MEANS
LOW PRICES!

 
  
 

Mixed
Pork Cho

4

 

body at a time until the body is
entirely relaxed.

Barry-Rec then gradually intro-
duces series of movements and exer-
cises to stretch different muscle
groups.

In one exercise, students take tum
massaging and gently pulling one
another’s legs to relieve stress that
builds up at the hip joint.

Toward the end of the course,
movements are built into a light
dance and exercise routine.

But the course is directed at the
mind as much as the body. ‘‘I really
believe that you are your own best
teacher,’’ Barry-Rec said. ‘‘But we
get so trained to look outward that
we lose contact with our inner
voice.”’

Barry-Rec worked and practiced
dance in New York City until she
ruptured a disk in her spine and had
to have part of the disk removed. She
needed physical therapy before she
could dance again.

Barry-Rec described herself up to
that point as ‘‘performance oriented.

“The therapy not only on a phys-
ical level, but on a psychological
level, was a whole new beginning,”’
she said, ‘‘a re-patterning of move-

TEV ER LD Ot

Ss

  

 

Pork

 

 

Loin

Lb.

ment.’’

According to Barry-Rec, she and
her husband settled in Virginia be-
cause it has the most liberal laws for
parents to home-school their children.

As for her class at W&L,‘‘The
work we do is so new to people's
thinking,’’ Barry-Rec said. ‘‘By the
time the course is over, people think,
‘Can we have an advanced class?’’’

Morrison, who works for Mirabel-
la magazine in New York City, said
what she learncd from Barry-Rec
remains ‘‘completely and utterly
useful’ in her post-graduate life.

She also insisted Barry-Rec’s
interpretation of modern dance ‘‘is
not as non-real world as people
think,’’ and added, ‘‘I still do some
of the exercises she taught us.’’

W&L Assistant Athletic Director
Cinda Rankin said Modern Dance
was introduced to broaden the PE
options for women after the college
went coeducational.

Barry-Rec said, however, at least
one man takes her class almost every
term and she thinks dance can benefit
anyone with an open mind.

“I always just have this wonder-
ful sense of our being one, in spite
of our little differences,’’ she said.

 

ee.
a7 170) 8fa sor)
SAVE

ed L gors

LSU. C14

     
  
 

 

 

on:

*REDUCEDe

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| W&LIFE

Nien

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1991

Sloth grabs college readers

 

By Joyce Bautista
Staff Reporter

 

In Roanoke there exists a house.
A house in which five guys from the
"91 graduating class at Hampden-
Sydney reside in ‘‘joyful bliss’’ with
a four-and-a-half month old basset
hound named Thelonius Slothrop
Gammon, Theo for short. From this
house emerges, biweekly, a magazine
that describes itself as ‘‘the essential
guide to keeping life interesting,’’
better known as The Mojo Sloth.

*‘It was harder than we tho.
ught to find a name,’’ Rob-
ert Beverly, one of the y
five members of the editor\ _
ial staff. ‘‘‘Norman’ was the
first thing we seriously consid-\
ered,’’ Beverly said. But event-
ually they decided upon calling it ©
The Mojo Sloth.

According to Beverly, it’s the

sloth of the three-fingered lazy
variety. The adjective ‘‘mojo’’ was
once used to describe the Delta Blues
players. ‘In essence,’’ Beverly said,
“The Mojo Sloth is a free, laid-back
creature that likes blues music.”’

Beverly along with Mark Gam-
mon, Rick Koehler, Tripp Reynolds,
and Paul Scanniello began production
in August of this year. ‘‘Paul, Mark,
and I were wondering what to do
with the rest of our lives,’’ Beverly
said. They considered the fact that
there was nothing in common for all
the colleges in the area to read.
““We thought there was room for a
publication to bring the schools toget-
her,’” he said.

They currently distribute their
magazine to 11 colleges and several
stores in the Central Virginia area. It
arrives On campus every other Wed-
nesday.

After Reynolds and Koehler came
on board, The Mojo Sloth was com-
plete. Each editor contributed $800 to
buy much needed equipment, such as
a Xerox machine and a laser printer.

The biggest problem the staff has
encountered has been with advertis-
ing. ‘‘Advertisers have been slow to
get on the wagon,”’ Beverly said.

The second biggest problem facing
the staff, however, according to Bev-
erly, is getting Theo housetrained.

“All has been peaceful with the
five guys in the house,’’ Beverly
said. ‘‘We have been able to avoid 3

a.m. food fights and gun play.’’
Most importantly, the staff at The
Mojo Sloth pride themselves on the
freedom they encourage about the
subject matter of submitted pieces.
“I can’t say, unfortunately, that we
have received much from W&L stu-
dents,’’ he said. ‘‘We welcome con-
tributions of work from anyone who
cares to send them.”’
wasn’t impressed
the magazine,”’
W&L junior
Scott Smith
said. ‘‘It

    
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

Bev-
erly said
The Mojo :
hasn’t receiv- ed one bad
letter yet and has found an
unexpected audience in the young
adults just out of college, as well as
the collegiate crowd. ‘‘Students need
to read something other than
textbooks or a USA Today,’’ Beverly

saa freshman Bevan Ovens,
agrees. ‘‘I find The Mojo Sloth a
good release from school and an
escape from textbooks,’’ Ovens said.
‘*T read the last issue from cover to
cover.””

Administrative Assistant to Resi-
dence Life Chris Bray, looks to The
Mojo Sloth as a good guide to con-
certs. ‘‘I’ve found it handy in locat-
ing concerts in the Charlottesville and
D.C. area,’’ he said.

Scanniello, the entertainment edit-
or, said he especially likes the fact
that the magazine is unstructured.
‘*As a writer, I get to try different
things,”’ he said.

“The only guideline we really
have is length,’’ Beverly said. The
most recent issues have been using
the concept of the theme, the last one
being ‘‘decadence.’’ ‘‘It’s like an egg
that holds things together,’ he said.

Sloth

Regardless, of their use of theme,
Beverly encourages writers to submit
anything. ‘‘We keep content as open
as possible,’’ he said. ‘‘Relevance to
world events isn’t a pre-requisite.’’
Beverly said the editorial staff is
conservative but always tries to stay
apolitical.

Their most immediate goal is
making some money. ‘‘We also hope
to get established, expand to the rest
of the state and reach more stu-
dents,’’ Beverly: said. But his aspira-
tions go even higher. ‘‘Next we go
global, have a publishing empire, and
then world domination.’’

Scanniello also has great hopes for
the magazine. ‘‘I plan to stick with
the Sloth until world domination,’’ he
said. ‘‘That is unless I start scraping
the ocean floor for food, whichever

- acomes first.’’

“I want to be a writer for the rest
of my life,’’ Scanniello said,
,, He had just done his first
interview ever. According to
im, it was a phone interview
ith the legendary Lloyd Cole

who was in Scotland. ‘‘We talked
about his music and childhood bath-
ing habits,’ he said.

The ‘‘Rock and Roll’’ issue ar-
rived yesterday, but future themes are
not being released. ‘‘I could tell
you,’’ Beverly said, ‘‘but then I'd
have to kill you.”’

 

“I plan to stick with
the Sloth until world
domination. That is
unless | start scrap-
ing the ocean floor
for food, whichever
comes first”

— Paul Scanniello

 

Beverly describes the staff as an
eclectic bunch. that run the gamut of
personalities, appearances, and ec-
centricities.

‘‘We've always got comments to
make about something,’ Reynolds
said.

Yet, according to Beverly, they do
have some important things in com-
mon. ‘‘We all have a twisted sense
of humor, a love of rock and roll
music and waffle houses, and pover-
ty,”’ he said. ‘‘Oh yeah, and Theo.”

 

 
 
 

   

3 qiouce
16 -

ie
17 Oz.

Veg All
Vegetables

 

 

79 Sq. Ft.
Scottowels

    
  

 

 

Te ae
by A

 

 

 

 

 
  

2 Liter Bottle Diet Coke Or

Coca-Cola
Classic

 

 

 

 

Prices Effective Through October 29, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, October 29, 1991. In Lexington Store Only,
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers, We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 

4
The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1991

Deer rate better than D-hall

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

The thrill of the chase has begun for hundreds
of sportsmen preparing for the fall hunting season.
Bow hunting season for deer is now well under

D-hall fare,’’ Van Os said.

But sophomore Jim Géilreath, of Greenville,
S.C., will wait until deer season for firearms begins
Nov. 18 before trying his luck in the wilds of

Rockbridge County.

“It’s the outdoor element that I enjoy. It’s good
chance to learn about nature,’’ Gilreath said.

Page 5

 

-W&LIFE

Dy ireieprentitielinennelssieilicensvesins lhl Neel leenensn

 

 

for those hunters and is quick to point out common
misconceptions about game hunters.

‘Believe it or not, I feel the actions of the
National Rifle Association are outrageous,’’ the
professor said. ‘‘I feel all handguns and all auto-
matic weapons should be banned from private
ownership. Everybody knows that such weapons

 

way, which means turkey and
bear seasons are not far behind.

“‘No real big deer have come
in yet this year,’’ Sandy Nye of
Kelly’s Corner said. Of the
twelve deer that had been
weighed at Kelly’s Comer as of
Wednesday, the largest was a
109 Ib. buck brought in by
Lexington resident Preston Wil-
liams.

One of more than a dozen
deer check-in points in Rock-
bridge County, Kelly’s Comer
on route 60 west is expecting to
weigh over 300 deer before the
season ends in early January.

   
 
  
 
 
  

 

Where ws tuz4?

have only one use.’’

While McDaniel is sidelined this
fall recovering from surgery, the
woods around Lexington will be
filled with sportsmen.

‘“‘There’s no doubt in my mind,
bow hunting definitely takes preced-
ence over school work,’’ Van Os
said.

 

 

Henry Van Os, a sophomore,
began his hunting career last year. But, this year
he has put down his rifle and taken up bow
hunting.

“It feels better than a gun,’’ Van Os said. ‘‘It’s
more native... like an Indian.”

 

“There is no doubt in my
mind, bow hunting definite-
ly takes precedence over
school.”’

— Henry Van Os

Van Os has been out combing the woods seven
times already this year, including once back home
in Georgia where he got his first bow-kill, a 110-
pound doe.

The difficulty of bow hunting nes won't
.‘*After all, venison

MC seeks 100

 

   

  
      
 
 

problems to worry about,”’

A hunter since junior high school, Gilreath Figg
worked in Canada this summer preserving the <.

wetlands for water fowl.

“It was my way of putting something back into

nature,’’ he said.

Besides deer, Gilreath has tried his luck with
different types of water fowl and turkeys as well.
Turkey hunting is a fascination of Anthropol-
ogy Professor John McDaniel. Besides being an

avid sportsman, McDaniel has written two

and several magazine articles on the art of hunting

the Thanksgiving treat.

‘While domesticated turkeys are foolish, wild
turkeys are exceedingly clever with near-perfect
‘They are almost
impossible to fool. In my opinion, it is the toug-

eyesight,’’ McDaniel said.

hest hunting challenge in North America.”’
Turkey season opens Nov. 4.
McDaniel,

who has lived with subsistence
hunters in the Peruvian jungle, has a great respect Van Os takes aim at his tarcet.

   

books

by Leigh Allen,

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Excitement
5 Mountains
9 Part of GBS
13 Coniferous tree
14 Musical drama
15 Hardy cabbage
16 Curved portions
17 Starts
19 Set of TV
programs
21 Soft drink
22 Hood's gun
23 Make into law
25 Sloping
roadway
27 Scottish cap
29 Ride the waves
31 Rental contracts
35 Exists
36 Tire surface
38 Took an oath
39 Intellect
41 Provide with
money
43 Entice
44 Party noshes
46 Cloth for jeans
48 Bow drowsily
49 Resources
51 Gift of charity

 

©1991 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

10/24/91
Last Week's Answers:
5 Large monkey

 

52 Free of water 6 Props
53 Complex of 7 Preceding
shops 8 Low-cut shoe
55 Very small 9 Snow glider
brooks 10 Suspend
57 Switch word 11 Seaweed
60 Necessity 12 Occident
62 Publishing 14 Indistinct
director 18 Titles
65 Bold reckless 20 Orient
persons 24 Tendency
68 Wash 26 Ratchet wheel
69 Augury device
70 Doctrine 27 Fila. city
71 Lifetimes 28 Opera melodies
72 Clarinet 30 Indistinct
tongue 32 Filming
73 Snow vehicle studio
74 Penny 33 Mistake
34 Shabby
DOWN 37 Philanthropist 50 Rains ice 59 Liberate
1 Mineral springs 40 Think 54 On the — 61 Have a meal
2 Whitewall 42 Most crafty (honest) 63 Baking chamber
3 Raises of akind 45 Small table 56 Purplish flower 64 Respite
4 Varnish 47 Pinochle 57 Scent 66 Terminate
ingredient term 58 Renown 67 Guided

 

 

 

Sessions said. ‘‘It

 

  

 

 

 

more delegates

Mock Convention has more than 100
spaces left on state delegations for students
who are interested in float building, fund
raising, researching or just getting involved
in Mock Convention.

According to MC Political Chairman
Jamie Tucker, there are forty states that need
delegates.

Students can sign up to be a delegate
Thursday in the University Center Game
Room from 4:30 to 5:30 at the Delegate
Fair or call the MC office at 463-8579.
Several MC state chairmen will be at the
delegate fair to sign up students and to
answer questions.

There is a $15 charge for state delegates
that helps to fund MC, Tucker said.

Sessions named
as new dean

Washington and Lee Professor of Philo-
sophy W. Lad Sessions will take over as
Associate Dean of the College July 1, 1992.

Sessions will replace current Associate
Dean of the College Laurent Boetsch, Jr.,
who will return to teaching full-time in the
Spanish department.

“It will present new challeges and new

will give me a different perspective on the
institution, and, I suspect, on higher educ-
ation as a whole in the United States.’’

Sessions said he will continue teaching
one class each fall and winter term, and he
is glad his new position is only for a limited
time.

Trustees to
discuss new art
gallery proposal

The Washington and Lee Board of Trus-

tees, including two new members, is sched-

uled to discuss the construction of the Wat-
son Gallery during its mnbing in Lexington
this weekend.

In its meeting Friday morning the Capital
Projects Committee will consider approving
the building, Communications Director and
Trustee Brian Shaw said.

Shaw said the Board is likely to reach a
decision this weekend either to approve or
disapprove the plans for the gallery, which
is being donated by Mrs. William Watson,
the widow of a W&L alumnus.

The gallery is being built to house the
Watsons’ $6 million to $10 million collec-
tion of Chinese art.

The construction of the Watson Gallery
has sparked protest from faculty and students

NEWS BRIEFS

  

who think its planned site behind the Reeves
Center and next to Tucker Hall will detract
from the beauty of the Colonnade.

Richard Chapman, a W&L junior, circu-
lated a petition protesting the site of the new
gallery. Chapman said last week he thought
he had collected 700-800 signatures.

Howard Phillips

to speak Tues...

Howard Phillips, founder and chairman
of the Conservative Caucus, will speak at
Lee Chapel Tuesday at 8 p.m.

Contact chairman Tim Gallagher said that
Phillips will focus on ‘‘a new strategy for
conservatives.”

[Phillips] hopes to establish a new
political party by 1992,’’ Contact Vice-
president Marc Short said, ‘‘but he doesn’t
expect to have a huge following.’’ Short
said that by the year 2000, Phillips hopes
to be a legitimate contender for the presid-
ency.

Phillips’ published works include The
New Right at Harvard and Moscow’s Chal-
lenge to U.S. Vital Interests in Southern
Africa.

 
   

 

s ; EC Rep. (out of 353)
Results of Monday’s election / Kris Fegenbush 57
(Those in run-off marked with /) ¥ Bryan King 38
Ryan Boone 35
President (out of 353) VP (out of 349) yoo rae =
/¥ Lawson Brice 84 / Robert Stewart 130 enh talin 7
Y Whitney Bludworth 54 / Joe Austin G2. Gat Mens 25
Jeff Tibbals 46 Dan Mann 50 Todd Stanton 25
Allen Gillespie 43 Michele Ralston 32 Becca McCord 24
Jennifer Garrigus 38 Mark Crider 28 Paul Wright 18
Sean Johnson 28 ~—_ Lloyd Peeples 20 John Hallett 16
Francie Cohen 24 ~— Elizabeth Carson 17 Brian McClung 14
Justin King 20 Tom Day 14 Samuel Drennen 14
Scott Sulman 16 Holi Harrison § Virginia Bush 6

 

 

Freshmen vote in

Run-off eléctions were held today in all
three freshman class office races.

Since no candi/iate in any race received
a majority of the votes cast, the top two
vote-getters for Executive Committee repre-
sentative, class president and vice president
were put on the ballot today.

According to Voting Regulations Board
Chairman Ward Maedgen, the results of
today’s election will be posted outside the
EC room in the University Center by 6 p.m.
tonight.

In Monday’s preliminary race for EC
representative, Kris Fegenbush received 57
of the 353 votes cast, or 16 percent, and
Bryan King got 38 votes, 11 percent of the
total.

run-offs. today

For class president, Lawson Brice took
84 out of 353 votes or 24 percent, while
Whitney Bludworth received 54 votes, or 15

at. S

Robert L. Stewart, running for vice-
president, received the most votes of any
candidate in any race Monday, getting 130
out of 349 votes cast, or 37 percent. Joe
Austin got 52 votes, or 15 percent of the
total.

Eighty-four percent of the freshman class
voted in Monday’s election.

— These reports were compiled by Ring-
tum Phi staff members Cathy Lopiccolo,
Joyce Bautista, Greg Patterson and Spain

Brumby.

 

SERVICITAR.

 

LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 South Main St., Lexington, VA 24450

463-2242

Deavers Alley Business Services

TERM PAPERS

Typed

Resumes, Cover Letters & Envelopes
Laser Printing and FAX Service

203 N. Main Street
463-9455

RockBRIDGE
=A VipEo

ae =

   

=

as The affordable way

Take A Break
— Relax —

Rent A Movie

We also have C.D.’s, Magazines, Comic Books
Snacks, Cigarettes and T-Shirts.

THIS WEEK’S SPECIAL - NINTENDO $1.50
463-7439

Washington St.
Lexington, Va.

to Home Entertainment

 

 

 

FASTEST RESUMES IN TOWN!!
24 hour turn-around for professional quality resumes
OPEN SATURDAY MORNINGS

PHONE: 463-1712 + FAX #: 463 - 6918
125 W. NELSON ST. + LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA + ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

We have all of your
re” Me paper & supplies

"20% Discount on all
non-sale items to students”

(703) 463-1620
11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
VISA, MC, AMEX

 

 

The Office of Career Planning & Placement

at
The University of Virginia

cordially invites you to attend the

EIGHTH ANNUAL

MINORITY CAREER DAY

Tuesday, November §, 1991

at the
OMNI HOTEL

in historic downtown Charlottesville, Virginia

 

You may register for this event tkrcna your College | or

Career Development Office..

We expect minority students from $0 Colleges and Universities

in Virginia and the District of Columbia

to attend along with 140 companies from around the country.
Don't forget to complete our data sheet and
bring multiple copies of your resume to the event!

}

STUDENT

PARKING

 

 

 

 

 

 

IF YOU WANT TO GET FROM

 

FACULTY

PARKING

 

 

 

START HERE

 

 

 

 

 

 

WE WILL BE VISITING WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY:

NOVEMBER 1

IES is a nonprofit teacher placement organization. Each year we visit over 70 colleges
and universities and counsel students about teaching careers in independent schools.

For more information about IES and an interview appointment, please contact your
career office. Or contact Kirk Russell or Brooke Burns at (800) 257-5102.

INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SER VICES « 353 NASSAU ST. + PRINCETON, NJ 08540 + (800) 257-5102

 

 

 
 

Cross Country -

Tennis (W) -

 

This week’s scores:
(M&W) at Virginia State Meet

Football - Hampden-Sydney 24, W&L 7
Soccer(M) - L- Virginia Wesleyan 4-0
Soccer(W) - L- Methodist 5-0

Volleyball - in W. Md. Tourney, L-BC, L-LC
L- Mary Washington 6-3

 

 

S

Che Ring-tum Phi

PORTS

 

Football -
Soccer (W)

 

Next week’s games:

Cross Country - M&W in W&L Invitational
at Sewanee
Soccer (M) - at Lynchburg
- vs. Sweet Briar, vs. Messiah
Volleyball - vs. SBC, at E&H, vs. Hollins
Water Polo - at H-SC, vs. H-SC

 

 

 

PAGE 6

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee football
team came up short on the field
again last weekend at Hampden-Syd-
ney, but not before putting a scare
into the Tigers.

W&L trailed just 10-7 late in the
third quarter, but the Tigers capital-
ized on a missed tackle to reclaim
momentum and go on to a 24-7 win.

With 30 seconds left in the third
quarter, H-SC tried a reverse to Jay
Hicks. W&L junior Lyle Smith had a
chance to stop Hicks in the back

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, WATER POLO

Tigers, long trip await winless W&L

field, but Hicks was able to slip
away and scamper 35 yards for a
touchdown.

H-SC led 10-0 in the second
quarter before W&L got its offense
going. W&L sophomore linebacker
Grant Rea intercepted a H-SC pass
and retumed it to the Tigers’ 32 yard
line. On the next play, freshman
quarterback Geren Steiner hit fellow
freshman Hayne Hodges for a touch-
down and sent the Generals into the
locker room with momentum.

‘At halftime I thought we had an
outstanding chance to win the game,”’
said head coach Gary Fallon. ‘‘I was
impressed with our defense at times.

 

Promotions schedule for coming week

 

From Staff Reports

 

The Washington and Lee Ath-
letics Promotions Committee an-
nounced the upcoming promotional
events.

women’s soccer game, there will
be a faculty penalty kick contest
sponsored by the GHQ.

hot cider and fruit at the cross
country meet.

On Saturday at halftime of the

Also on Saturday, there will be

 

We opened them up with a score,
and we thought we could be more
effective. The kids were sky-high.”’

W&L managed just 49 total yards
on the day and managed just five
first downs. And that cost the Gen-
erals in the second half.

‘‘We came out and played a flat
second half,’’ Fallon said. ‘‘We pid-
dled away good field position, and
they just wore us down.”

H-SC ran 83 plays to W&L’s 38.
All told, the W&L defense was on
the field for 42:30. ‘‘It was fright-
ening how long our defense was on
the field.’’

Smith led the workhorse defense,
registering 19 tackles. Freshman
James Mayberry had 10 tackles and
an interception, and freshman Jason
Chartrand, junior Phil Spears and
senior John McCallum each had 10

tackles.

The General who had the best day
was junior punter Bob Ehret. Ehret
tied two school records. His 76-yard
punt equalled the longest in school-
history, and his 46.9 average equalled
the single-game highest average.

“I still have to admire our kids,”’
said Fallon. ‘‘We’re 0-6 and disap-
pointed that we lost, but we aren’t
down.

“I’ve been around teams that
have lost, and they lost more than
games. They lost respect for each
other and the coaches. This team isn’t
even close to that,’’ Fallon said.
‘‘Our attitude is that we’ve got four
more games to play, and we're going
to get after it in each one.”’

This week, the Generals will face
what Fallon calls the toughest test of
the season. W&L will make a nine-

hour bus trip into western Tennessee
to take on Sewanee.

The Tigers are unbeaten at 5-0-1
on the year and hoping to qualify for
the NCAA playoffs. Sewanee is rank-
ed in the top seven in the South
Region.

‘This is our biggest challenge of
the season,’’ said Fallon. ‘‘They’re
undefeated and ranked. The game is
at their place and it’s Homecoming.
But we’ve got to accept the challenge
and give a heck of an effort. If we
do that, I won’t be disappoint

This W&L team has never lost to
Sewanee, winning 21-0, 21-17 at
Sewanee, and 17-0 last year. Sewanee
is unbeaten since losing at W&L last

ear.

‘*We’ve been in the games we've
played,’’ said Fallon. ‘‘We’re not
down at all.’’

‘Great’ Methodist tops Generals 5-0

 

By Sarah Gilbert
Staff Reporter

 

Volleyball pulls together
for late ODAC push

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team has fallen on hard times of
late, and despite a sub-par showing in
a tournament at Western Maryland,
the Generals are on the road to re-
covery.

‘*Even though we didn’t do well at
the tournament, we came together as
a team,’’ said senior captain Mena
McGowin. ‘‘We had a meeting at the
end of the tournament which was
really positive.’’

Another positive despite the 1-3
showing was the play of junior Leslie
Hess. Hess set a single season record
for block points with 48 for the year.
Hess also helped McGowin out offen-
sively, registering 36 kills for the
week.

The Generals’ sole win came over
Notre Dame (Md.) 14-16, 15-7, 15-
12.

Earlier in the week, the Generals
dropped two tough Old Dominion
Athletic Conference games to Lynch-
burg and Bridgewater. Against BC,
the Generals got their first ever single
game win over the Eagles, 15-6.
Oddly enough, it was the reserves,
led by juniors B.J. League and Fran
Ascher who led the way.

McGowin said the bench play has

FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS
Promote and organize our Spring
Break tours. All materials furnished.
Good pay and fun.

Call Campus Marketing.
1-800-423-5264.

    

   
       
     
  

 
   
       
     
       

 

  
   
     
 
 
     
 

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

a
+
*
*
+
*
+
+
*
*
a
*
8
*
+
*

oe
”

*

»

been one of the team’s strong points
this year.

“They have come in and played
tough,”’ she said. ‘‘With everyone on
the bench, I’m confident that they
can play well. I never feel that we
lose something when we go to the
bench.”’

 

 

 

 

Leslie Hess
This week, the Generals have three

important ODAC matches against
Sweet Briar, Emory and Henry, and
Hollins. The Generals will look to
take some momentum into the ODAC
tournament with three wins.

“They are really important
matches,’” McGowin said. ‘‘If we
don’t win, we may not get a bid to
the tournament. We need to win to
make sure we get into the tourna-
ment.”’

 

Advertise
The Phi is the surest

way to W&L students.
call Whitney Swift

 

 

463-8581

 

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satin shoes dyed in 1 hr.

ADRESSERS WANTED immediately! No experience
necessary. Process FHA mortgage refunds. Work at
home. Call 1-405-321-3064.

30 S. Main Street
R.E. Lee Building
9:30-5:30, Mon. -Sat.

463-9730

50-80% Savings on Nationally Advertised
Catalog Brands

   

464-6666

  

GRIST IIIT RI tt th

TGIF

Outlet Stores

RRR RK RARE

Be Re TTR ITT TT TTT I TIAA AAI AA AAA AANA TIN

LOST

Saturday, October 19

Men’s
Stainless Heuer
Blueface Watch

REWARD OFFERED

Please Call
464-5410

 

 

Dassen

 

 

auciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
MONSTER OPTONICA
KEF CwDd
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

Though the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer game Saturday was
a decided loss, 5-0 to nationally
ranked Methodist, head coach Janine
Hathorn was happy with her team’s
performance.

‘Methodist is a great team. A S-
0 win is a big score in soccer, but
it’s not a big score against a team
that’s as good as they are,’’ she said.

‘‘We were hoping to do well
against their team and I think we did.
I have no complaints against our
team at all.”’

Hathorn commended the perfor-
mance of senior Nancy Mitchell and
sophomores Corinda Hankins and
Karen Stutzmann. She was also
pleased with the play of the sub-
stitutes.

After this non-conference game,
the Generals are now 4-4-2 overall
and 4-1-1 in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference. Today’s game
against Sweet Briar, at 4:30 p.m. at
Liberty Hall Field, will be their final
regular season conference game.

A win would guarantee the Gen-
erals second seed in the tournament.
Roanoke has clinched the top seed.

‘‘We always seem to play down
to the level of the other team,’’ Hath-

om said. ‘‘Our major focus this
week is to keep our level of play and
score goals whether it is a Methodist
or a Sweet Briar or a Hollins or a
Roanoke.”’

As the Generals look ahead to the
ODAC tournament next weekend,
they are hoping for a win against
Sweet Briar.

“Our sights have been set all
year; we're just trying to do really
well in the conference. The game
against Methodist sort of put in per-
spective just how attainable winning
the conference championship really
is,’’ said Hathorn.

VWC leaves W&L thinking

 

By Sean O’Rourke
Staff Reporter

 

With the first round of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Tour-
nament beginning next Tuesday, it is
the time of the year when the teams
want to be peaking.

Unfortunately for the Washington
and Lee men’s soccer team, last
Saturday was not a good indication
that the team is ready to play its best
soccer.

A 4-0 loss to Virginia Wesleyan
puts the Generals in a must-win
situation this Saturday as they play
their last regular season ODAC game
against Lynchburg. A win, and the
Generals host a first round game. A
loss, and the Generals might have to
travel and open the tournament on the
road.

The loss left the team with differ-

 
  

  
 

  

ners 1

For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND EXCELLENT BUSINESS EXPE-
RIENCE!! Openings available for individuals or student organiza-
tions to promote the country’s most successful SPRING BREAK
tours, Call Inter-Campus Programs 1-800-327-6013.

ing opinions about the way it played.
Head coach Rolf Piranian was notice-
ably dejected after the loss. ‘‘Va.
Wesleyan is good, but they aren’t
that good,’ he said. ‘‘Our team real-
ly didn’t play well at all.’’

Some of the players, though,
thought otherwise. Senior Bobby
Weisgerber and freshman Eric Tracy
thought that Va. Wesleyan was just a
very strong team.

“‘They were a very strong team
and they had a very potent offense.
They also had great speed up front,
and they beat us to thé ball.’’ said
Weisgerber.

‘‘T thought we played with them,”’
said Tracy. ‘‘We made some stupid
mistakes, but I think we played
well.’’

For right now, though, the Gen-
erals must be more concerned about
Lynchburg. Piranian said he’s not

Furniture Dealers

 

463-2742

e Redken ® Paul Mitchel *Sebus1i,
n

~ George’ ss

Hairstylist

’

36 Varner Lane !
463-3975

>

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

a, The Right »

SP

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 
 
  
 
 
   
     

worried about a let-down on Sat-
urday because of the Va. Wesleyan
loss.

‘*There won’t be a let-down after
this loss,’’ he said. ‘‘You don’t have
a letdown in this situation,”’

Ore positive thing to come out of
Satv.day’s loss was the retum of
M:ke Mitchem. The junior saw his
first action since injuring his knee in
the third game of the year. Mitchem
played well, and that should give the
Generals a boost going into the
Lynchburg game.

The final game will be played at
Lynchburg on Saturday at 2 p.m.
After that, the schedule is up in the
air. If the Generals win they will
stay home for a game on Tuesday.
But is they should lose, they would
open the tournament on the road, and
that is exactly what Piranian and the
Generals don’t want.

 
 
 
 

Guasaiie: TREK -

130 S. Main St.

   

Financial Aid available immediately! Special grants program.
Every student eligible. No one turned down. Simple application.
Send name, address and $1 P&H free (refundable) to: Student
Services, P.O. Box 22-4026, Hollywood, FL 33022.

J Jansport day packs and book b

Lexington Bike

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

OCTOBER 24, 1991

CC keeps on
running strong

 

By Jacob Kimball
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
cross country team gave its ‘‘best
showing in years’’ according to a
pleased head coach John Tucker.

The men finished third overall at
the Virginia State Championships
held in Williamsburg, Va. W&L has
never finished higher at this meet
since Tucker became coach four years
ago.

The two teams that finished ahead
of the Generals were Lynchburg and
Mary Washington, the top two teams
in the Southeast Region. The final
tally among the top three teams in a
field of ten was LC 24, MWC 67,
and W&L 81.

The finish was made even sweeter
because the team out-pointed Chris-
topher Newport for the first time
after narrowly losing twice last year.

Bo Hannah once again led the
‘team and finished second overall with
a personal record of 25:52.

Charles Edwards continues to tum
in solid performances as he finished
seventh overall at 26:45. Not far
behind the consistently strong Ed-
wards were junior Keith Rinn and
freshman Matthew Brock.

The team’s overall record is a
very respectable 5-1, and they have
registered an unblemished 3-0 mark
in Old Dominion Athletic Conference
competition. This puts the Generals
in the drivers seat for a season cham-
pionship. W&L has beaten its remain-
ing ODAC foes already this year.

Some of those teams will be
competing in the inaugural Washing-
ton and Lee Invitational this weekend.
The Generals will host seven other
teams as they strive to continue their
string of strong showings.

The women’s team staggered into
the state, yet still managed a respec-
table showing.

The team, depleted by injuries and
other various misfortunes, was up
against the top Division II and III
teams in the state. Formidable Mary
Washington College took the top
honors, yet Washington and Lee
placed sixth overall.

Although the team didn’t run
quite as well as it would have liked,
freshman Kim Herring once again
showed she is capable of running
with the best in the state. She

finished seventh overall, leading the
Generals with a time of 20:37.

This weekend, the Generals will
run in the W&L Invitational. As
many as six teams are expected to
compete.

       

Diamond Back - Giant

Shop

463-7969

 

 

 

Shoes
Clothing

Accessories
23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

   
   
     

 

 

   
 
 

Rt. 5, Box 379

703-463-3478

 

LEE HI

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

    
   
    
 

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

 

saw

 

E, Nelson St., Lexington

 

 

Valley JiueVahe Hardware

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00

Sun, 1:00-5:00
463-2186

 

 

 

 

Come to your Printing Center for:

* Flyers and Posters

* Copying and Printing
* Programs

> Newsletters

 

University PRINTING CENTER 1st Floor Reid Hall - 463-8448

The Printing Center offers quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job return, and
competitive pricing. We have a Macintosh Iix which can read IBM disks. Scanned
images can be added to your campaign or organizational flyers for that individual
appearance. Need a high resolution output? We offer our Linotronic 200SQ. Our
services cover University and non-profit organizations. Stop by today!

OE

+ Custom Resumes and Letters
* Transparencies

* Brochures and Booklets

+ Scanning

 

 

  
    
   
 
   

  

a
