| Jig.t | LIBRARY
WASHING [uit & LEE UNIVERSITY

£31. 755 | EXINGTON, VA. 24450
R552 MAY 2 2 1992
V- qi
no.2§8

~ Che Hing-tum Phi

VOLUME 91, NO. 28 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W&Lcommunity mourns loss of Lisa Corwin

Friends and professors say that her en-
thusiasm and sincere dedication to W&L
will be missed.

Despite only being a freshman, Corwin
was involved in Young Democrats, the
Washington State Mock Convention Dele-
gation and Hillel, the
Jewish students’ organi-
zation. She also played
clarinet in the University
Wind Ensemble and was
a member of the club
softball team.

Sophomore
Jennings Jones said he
and Corwin began dat-
ing in March.

MAY 21, 1992

 

 

By LEIGH ALLEN AND GREG PATTERSON
of The Ring-tum Phi Staff

Jones said he and Corwin enjoyed tak-
ing walks and sitting together on the roof of
his fraternity house, Lambda Chi Alpha.

Jones said she was close to both of her
parents, who kept up with her progress at
school.

Jones said Associate Director of Pro-
grams Mimi Elrod even noticed that Corwin
was involved in many activities and wrote
Corwin’s parents to tell them how well she
was doing.

Jones said she was part of a tight-knit
group of friends that included the girls she
planned to room with next year.

“She was never without her room-
mates,” Jones said. “They always came [to
Lambda Chi] together.”

Crockett, one of Corwin’s professors,
said she was an outstanding student.

“She was always prepared and never
missed a class,” Crockett said. “She was the
kind of student a professor dreams about.”

This year Corwin won the Jim Stump
Prize, an award given to an outstanding
freshman or sophomore in the German de-
partment

“Lisa came to W&L with so much tal-
ent in German that she tested into the 300-
level literature classes,” Crockett said. He
said Corwin had already taken two German
literature classes and was taking Business

 

The tragic death of freshman Lisa
Corwin stunned students and left those who
knew her reflecting on her achievements
during her short time at Wash-
ington and Lee.

“The only adjective I can
use to describe Lisa is wonder-
ful,” Professor of German
Roger Crockett said. ““We’re all
feeling the loss very much.”

Corwin died after falling

.  overthe edge of Statons Falls in
Amherst County Monday af-
ternoon while picnicking with friends,

Memorial Service
Friday, May 22

 

Lee Chapel
awe

  

 

CORWIN continued on page 5>

Corwin, in her home state of Washington.

IFC approves proposal

 

 

 

 

 

before their graduation ceremony last Saturday.

W&L Law to L.A. Law

W4&L third-year law students line the Colonnade New York Timescolumnist Anthony Lewis deliv-

Photo by Kimberly Marcott, The Ring-turr Phi

ered the commencement address.

 

By CraIG BURKE
Phi Copy Editor

Next year, Tear Night will no longer be the drunken
orgiastic celebration that traditionally caps fraternity Rush.
Or at least not if the Interfraternity Council has its way.

A proposal for an alcohol-free Tear period was ap-
proved 8-6 at Wednesday night’s IFC meeting. It would
require that all bids be accepted from 5 to 8 p.m. during the
last Friday of Rush.

“Instead of letting people have the option of tearing
from 8 p.m. until the party ends, all bids will be accepted at
the same time,” IFC Vice-President Tom Washmon said.

He said the new format will separate the act of tearing
from drinking and will also allow varsity athletes to tear
with everyone else.

Washmon said the way each fraternity handles the Tear
period may differ.

“Tt will be up to each house to decide on a Tear Night
format,” he said, “That could be a sit-down dinner, a formal
or whatever.”

The goal of the new format is to take the focus off
drinking, Washmon said.

He also said there has been increasing concern from the
Hill over Tear Night-related injuries.

“There are consistently more injuries on Tear week-
ends,” Washmon said. “Obviously that points to Tear Night
as being a little overly rambunctious.”

Dean of Students David Howison said the number of
injuries during the last Tear Night made it necessary to
improve next year’s ceremonies.

“Some of the activities during the last Tear Night were
clearly dangerous,” Howison said. “I made a statement at

 

 

Class of '96 filled

with brains and brawn

the time that much of Tear Night was unacceptable and

to curtail Tear Night

didn’t contribute to the fraternity system.”

Though Howison made his opinion of Tear Night
clear, he said it was up to the IFC and other fraternity leaders
to initiate the changes.

Associate Dean of Students for Greek Affairs Leroy C.
“Buddy” Atkins said Tear Night was one of the priority
items for consideration on a list composed by former IFC
President Greg Hicks.

“Since the new IFC Board would be the ones dealing
with Rush, Hicks left Tear Night to them,” Atkins said.

The process of creating new Tear Night procedures
fell to Washmon, Atkins said.

Ideas were gathered from the IFC, the presidents of
fraternities and Rush chairmen.

“Tt’s always been up to the students to pull this off,”
Howison said.

But some think changing Tear Night is a mistake.

Sigma Nu President Mark VanDeusen said the new
format will. have little effect on Tear Night injuries.

“T think students will drink in the afternoon before they
tear, or they'll drink even more that night,” he said.

Kappa Alpha President Hank Huff disagrees.

“Something needed to be done to diminish the number
of Tear Night injuries,” Huff said.

The proposal is also likely to include a provision for
moving band parties to the last Friday of Rush, instead of
the last Saturday.

Several students suggested an IFC-sponsored event on
Saturday night in which all fraternities would participate.

Fraternities must vote again at next week’s IFC meet-
ing for the proposal to pass.

“The members of fraternities need to ask themselves if
the kind of dangerous activities at previous Tear Nights are
something they want to be involved in,” Howison said.

 

Job market better for ‘92 grads

 

spective employers or graduate schools, and some

will take time off to travel.

 

By KerrH GRANT
Phi Staff Reporter
By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Reporter 1 For the 379 seniors scheduled to graduate
Co m pari ng June 3, the job market appears to be better than last
When classes begin the Classes

next fall, Washington
and Lee will find the
class of 1996 to be as
strong as any in recent
years, according to the
Admissions Office.
“We're getting
more very, very strong
students,” said Julia
Kozak, associate direc-
tor of admissions.
According to
Kozak, 38 of the 450
students who have con-
firmed their admittance
were valedictorians or
salutatorians of their
graduating classes, and
48 were presidents of
their classes or student
bodies. Their average
SAT score is 1248.
These figures com-
pare favorably with the
present freshman class.
The average SAT score
for the class of 1995 was
also 1248, and 37 stu-
dents were either vale-
dictorians or salu-

 

Total enrolled: 449

64% Male, 36% Female
SAT Verbal: 600
SAT Math: 648
Average Rank (Percentile): 86th
% ranked in top 10%: 55
Valedictorian and salutatorian: 38
Children of Alumni: 38
Public/Private: 66/34
% from Virginia: 12

Total enrolled: 421

59% Male, 41% Female
SAT Verbal: 602
SAT Math: 647
Average Rank (Percentile): 88th
% ranked in top 10%: 59
Valedictorian and salutatorian: 37
Children of Alumni: 38
Public/Private: 67/33
% from Virginia: 11

Class of 1996

Class of 1995

 

 

tatorians.

The one considerable change from
last year’s applicant pool seems to be
in athletics: 149 members of the class
of 1996 were team captains in high
school, up from 91 last year.

While each incoming class over
the past five years has been strong,
Kozak said, the quality of the best
students who choose W&L has been
improving.

“We’re definitely improving at
the top,” she said, citing an increase in
the number of applicants for Honor
Scholarships. Overall, the admissions
office received 3,433 applications this
year,

Some administrators and faculty
members agree that there is an upward
trend in the academic quality of the
students coming to W&L.

“The trend is definitely upward in
terms of both academic qualities and

personal qualities,” said Mimi Elrod,
associate director of special programs
and former associate director of admis-
sions. “The students are not just get-
ting brighter, but are also more in-
volved.”

Professor of Journalism John
Jennings said students are coming bet-
ter prepared for college work. Ac-
cording to Jennings, the average grade
in his Journalism 301 course, Law and
Communications, has gradually im-
proved from a C+ in 1986 to a B- last
fall.

“The quality of written work is
significantly better than seven or eight
years ago,” Jennings said. “Maybe
they’re using their time more wisely
while they’re here.”

 

CLASS continued on page 5»

 

Career Services Rick Heatley.

than last year,” Heatley said.

provement over last year.

year,” he said.

two previous classes.

 

year, according to Associate Dean of Students for
“There are definitely more and better jobs

Although complete figures on job placement
and graduate studies for the Class of 1992 is not
yet known, Heatley said he already sees an im-

“We're starting better than last year’s tragic

According to the Placement Report for the
Class of 1991, 17 percent of last spring’s gradu-
ates were still seeking employment as of Novem-
ber, more than twice the combined figures of the

Heatley said that the numbers for ’92 gradu-
ates won’t be fully known until the fall. Many
students are still awaiting responses from pro-

Heatley said.

and enter graduate school.

Out going to graduate school.”

Tim Gallagher found the job search difficult,
but said his W&L education helped him get into a

corporate training program in Philadelphia.

“W&L gave me the tools to compete.”

“‘We'ask the students [about their plans] at the
cap and gown line, but it’s basically hit or miss,”

Following a trend in recent years, about one-
fourth of the graduates will postpone the job hunt

Nancy Mitchell is headed for the University
of Georgia for graduate studies in counseling.

“I’m basically going out of necessity,” said
Mitchell. “With what I want to do, which is coun-
seling children, I probably couldn’t get hired with-

“[Finding a job] was really tough, but hard
work and W&L really paid off,” Gallagher said.

Gallagher believes that the poor job market
has frustrated several of his W&L friends, but
graduates from other schools are having even a

more difficult time.

“There are still a number of my friends who
don’t know about work yet, but it’s not for a lack
of trying,” he said. “My friends here have certainly
had more success
than my friends back
home, though.”

Gallagher’s suite-
mate, Trevor Hilde-
brand, is not one of
those still looking.
Hildebrand will be
reporting for active
duty at Fort Bragg,
N.C, after receiving
hiscommission from
the U.S. Army.

But some
graduates look for-
ward to graduation
regardless of what the future holds.

“It’s an adventure,” senior Jen Albright said.
“What’s life without a little adventure.”

 

 

Heatley

 

 

A Funny Thing’s happening at Lenfest

Modern musical farce borrows from Plautus

 

By NICOLE KEELER
Phi Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee theatre will
present A Funny Thing Happened on
the Way to the Forum, a Steven
Sondheim musical and winner of the
1962 Tony Award, from May 22 until
May 27 in the Lenfest Center.

The play is amodern musical farce
adapted from the popular comedies of
the ancient Roman playwright, Titus
Maccius Plautus, director Al Gordon
said.

“Forum borrows most heavily, but
by no means exclusively, from the
Plautus play Pseudolus,” Gordon said.

He said the plot of Pseudolus was
a common one in Plautus’ time be-
cause it was one the rowdy Roman
audiences always enjoyed. The story
follows a young and inexperienced boy
from a good family who falls in love
with a naive, yet socially unacceptable

girl. Confused, the boy tums to one of
his family’s crafty slaves to help trick
his parents into giving their consent to
the match.

just singing, [Forum] is a lot lighter,

Gordon said he decided to bring
Forum to the Lenfest Center because
“we try to do different types of theatre-
like a Roman-style musical.”

He also pointed out that Forum is
a nice contrast to last year’s popular
production of Evita.

“It was very serious, almost an
opera. There was no speaking in Evita,

   

funnier,” Gordon said. 4
In bringing Forum to the stage, |

‘ style of ancient Roman comedies

Gordon said, he tried to emphasize the
Roman quality first and then introduce
color and anachronistic touches that he
said associates them with the continu-
ing tradition of vaudeville in the peri-
odical theatre,

“Basically, we just go crazy.”

Senior Andrew Keller plays
Pseudolus, the scheming slave who
tries to win his freedom. Keller tries
everything to bring together his master
Hero, played by senior Ryan Kull, and
Philia, played by freshman Mandy
Irons.

Gordon said students in the the-
atre classes have helped him with his

 

 

 

3 : -
Photo by Teresa Williams, The Aing-tum Phi

A group of courtesans fawn over the warrior Miles Gloriosus, played
by Tom Oxendine, '79, at a rehearsal for A Funny Thing Happened on
the Way to the Forum. The play runs May 22-27 in the Lenfest Center.

efforts.

“They’re responsible for all ele-
ments of production except costume.
Two or three of them are in the show
itself,” Gordon said. “The cast is made
entirely of students, with the exception
of one alum.”

According to Gordon, production
is going smoothly and “the crew is
having a blast.”

Gordon said the first two nights of
Forum are virtually sold out and tick-

ets are going fast for the other four
shows.
 

 

 

 

Page 2

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 21, 1992

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

To the trustees:
You can trust us

The Board of Trustees is meeting this weekend to approve
the budget for the coming year. We planned to preview the
meeting, but the story was only about five inches long. We
would have headlined it, ‘“Trustees to meet.’’ Not very
exciting.

In other words, they wouldn’t tell us anything.

As a private university, Washington and Lee is not required
to release its budget. But considering that W&L students pay
more than $11,000 each in tuition every year, it does not seem
too much to ask that the Board make its budget open to
parents and students.

Students have a stake in how the university spends its
money. They deserve to know what they’re getting.

Don’t get us wrong. We are not trying to raise the question
of whether the Board is handling our money properly. We
simply don’t know why they are reluctant to share such
information with us. We imagine that if any alum who
donates money to the university requested a copy of the
budget, he would get one. Why not give one to interested
students?

W&L tries to maintain a community of trust. Both the
Board and students are members of that community. Hiding
something as innocuous as a budget from students is
antithetical to that sense of trust.

Why all the secrecy?

 

Dear Lisa ...

My VIEW

 

et

[IN TOWs Houser

 

By Joshua Manning

oo

Vo WW

So

I was not a good friend of yours, just a casual friend.
I didn’t share your intimate secrets, only those you cared to
make known in casual conversation. Sitting here late into
the night, thoughts of you come back, and I begin to realize
what we all have lost through a tragic accident. 7

I remember how I met you. When I returned to town
last September, the very same day the freshmen arrived, I ‘
checked in with Professor Marks to see about contacting
Jewish freshmen, He gave me some names and sent me to
you — you were the one freshman that had already sought
him out. You had volunteered to help contact other Jewish
freshmen in time for Rosh Hashanah ... and so had I.

I remember waking you up from a nap that afternoon. |
You were tired and grumpy, but immediately put on a smile
when you found out why I was there. :

I remember Homecoming Weekend. I’m not sure if I .
saw you ... but I know I met your father. He had traveled
over 3,000 miles to visit you and his alma mater. I only ‘
spoke to him for maybe five minutes. We literally bumped ,
into each other at the dorm room of the Hillel president.
We were both looking for him, and your dad mistook me *
for him. Once we settled who was who, we began chatting ,
... mostly about you. He was a very proud father.

I also remember four sabbath dinners, two outings to ’
teach the little kids at the Lexington Jewish Sunday School,
about a dozen Hillel meetings and, strangely enough, —
bumping into you even more often through mutual friends. *
You were just always there. But now you are not. :
And I remember last week. Just six days before you
died, we were sitting around a dinner table along with some +
‘ | other Jewish students planning Hillel’s calendar for next

year. Many of the ideas came from you. Ideas that are now
irrevocably written into the future of that organization, and »
through it, the history of this school. ;
The enormity of what I, your friends, Hillel and W&L
have lost has not yet set in. I’ve been too busy running °
around, working on this newspaper, writing papers and |
helping to plan your memorial service (the very least I can
do) to weigh the cosmic implications. There is so much <
more I can say in this column, but I won’t. Like your life,
it will remain unfinished ...
Joshua Manning is Managing Editor of The Ring-tum Phi »
Qnd treasurer of Hillel, the Jewish students’ association.

A few parting words from Swann

 

 

Se

nN

fj \

VAAN
V VAS
NWA
WN NG

NAA

ae

SY
K<<
7

Ss

when
BS SSS
ae

<<
>
y a
a
SS
UL
oh
=

=
PF

CLASS OF ‘4Q FACES THE ORDEALS
OF Wtl HOUSING

IFC tears into :
Tear Night

The Interfraternity Council significantly altered the

 

 

 

 

 

 

format of Tear Night this week. No longer, it seems, will
fraternities be able to put a wild, hedonistic cap of
camaraderie on the worst two weeks of a fraternity’s year.

Too bad. In many ways, we'll miss the old Tear Night.
It holds some of our fondest memories.

Fun aside, however, Tear Night was dangerous. Each
year, Tear Night sent many more students to Stonewall
Jackson Hospital than could possibly be healthy for W&L.

growing less fun. Everywhere you look, the problems of
our society are forcing individuals to sacrifice short-term
happiness for long-term well being.

In this age of increased responsibility — and, in all
honesty, liability — the tradition of Tear Night simply
costs too much in both human and economic terms.
Without gutting Tear Night, the IFC has produced a

plan that should eliminate injuries. We urge fraternities to
follow it.

Quotes of the Week

But they're so much happier half-nude and really drunk.
— Executive Editor Cathy Lopiccolo, in an eloquent plea
for the old, traditional Tear Night.

I start work June 18, two weeks after I graduate. Then I
have to wear a tie every day for the rest of my life.

— A senior, summing up the difference between college
and the real world. (Good luck.)

Vaginal dryness has many causes, but only one long
lasting solution.

— An actual advertisement from an actual magazine.
(Hint: it’s not Field and Stream.)

 

Unfortunately but necessarily, we live in a world that is ©

Let IT RIDE
By Chris Swann

I have a very strange job. I write
about eight hundred words and try to
make people laugh. Sounds like a great
occupation: work for about an hour,
then kick back with a Busch. Or, if I’m
feeling daring, a shot of Jack: Some-
times both. But, like most things, my
life is a little more complicated than
that. First, writing is like giving birth to
a very large child. And that child can
become nearly anything, from a Nobel
Prize physicist to a drive-thru operator
at McDonald’s. I look back on my
columns and sometimes feel like I fa-
thered a few odd and perhaps demented
offspring. At least they can’t grow up
and quit college on me, or wreck my
car.

And I do a little more than write

for a newspaper. Like, go to class,
contrary to my father’s beliefs. He’s
not a big advocate of Spring Term--
“You're taking one class and I’m pay-
ing five thousand dollars?!” I also:
collect musical compositions (trans-
lated: new Black Crowes and Bruce
Springsteen), observe works of art (my
girlfriend’s Victoria’ s Secret catalogs-
«just kidding), read great pieces of lit-

erature (the new’ Tom Clancy, and

Stephen King novels, along with the
occasional Batman graphic novel), and
work in a distinguished restaurant (peel
cold, half-eaten lasagna off plates in
the Pit). I’m a busy guy.

Of course, graduation will change
all of this. I won’t be able to make fun
of my roommate in print anymore, for
example (teaser: read on to learn who
he really is). No longer will I be able to
charge home fifty dollars of compact
discs and blank tapes under the rather

We need more Spirituality

 

vague description, “Bookstore Items.”
Never again will I buy a case of Natty
Bo in bottles for eight bucks at East
Lex (hey, beer is beer when you’ve got
only twenty dollars in your checking
account at one time). No more hanging
in my underwear from the banisters at
a fraternity party (Hey! Get off my

computer! Sorry, my roommate was
acting up. I do not wear underwear to.

fraternity parties.)

There are a lot of things I won’t
miss. The Spectator. Fights with drunk
VMI cadets. Fraternity rush. The Hill.
New art galleries. Politically correct
politics. And I will miss several things.
The Ariel and Ring-tum Phi. Fun non-
violent band parties. Fraternity tear
night. Making fun of the Hill. Making
fun of new art galleries. Making fun of
PC politics. Making fun, period. When
else will I be able to ridicule anybody
and be able to put that on my résumé?

Butno more. Let/t Ride is history, |
a footnote in the annals of Journalism
(a very small footnote, but that’s be-
side the point). I’m not sure what I'll .
do with my spare time now. Maybe be
a disc jockey in Alaska, or fish for '
marlin 4 la Ernest Hemingway off Key ,
West. That would fitmy English major
description: Young Wit and the Sea, °

” théy’d call it. If [had my wish, I’d be ,
~ ahumior columnist in Atlanta and watch

the Braves for free. \
But anyway, it’s been real. Have {
fun, be good (or don’t get caught), and
keep the kegs cold for all us soon-to-be
alumni. i
Oh yeah, myroommate? It’sElvis. »
He and Salman Rushdie take turns on
the couch. I’m expecting Kennedy next
week. For double rent, of course; he’s
a Democrat.
Wanted: humor columnist, high
pay, free beer. Call The Ring-tum Phi.

 

My VIEw

By Brain Carpenter

Islamic fundamentalism ascendent in the
Middle East, ethnic rivalries resurfacing in the
Soviet Union, the religious fundamentalists in this
country and the holistic New Age movements.
What does this resurgent tide of spiritualism mean
in our world? It means that Nietzche’s proclama-
tion of the “death of God” was incorrect. Spiritu-
alism is not dead, in fact it is of paramount impor-
tance in many societies. Modernism, which ac-

 

 

  

The Bing-tun Phi

Executive Editors
Managing Editor

Thomas Eisenhauer, Cathy Lopiccolo

  

 

 

 

companied and included Nietzche’s famous state-
ment, is a spent force in world society. Modernism
must be replaced by a Theory of Limits.
Modernism saw man as being freed of the
limits imposed on him by spiritualism. No longer
bound to traditional beliefs, he was capable of
doing anything. Man, not God, was considered to
be the supreme being. The results that Modernism

most of Asia. These societies have chosen to
impose limits upon themselves, for that is what
spirituality is about: imposing limits upon one’s
actions. Why do we willingly submit ourselves to
limits? It may in part be simple self-preservation.

As we face the rapid destruction of our earth,
spirituality provides an answer. If we view the
earth as superior to us, or as sacred, we are less
likely to pollute it. This simple belief, enshrined in
many religions, serves to preserve the earth for the
generations to come. We need to rediscover the
limits imposed on us by spirituality, for only then
can we save ourselves from destruction.

Reality has shown us man cannot do what-
ever he wants, for he will destroy himself. Man is
a social animal, he feels a need to belong to a
group, and in many cases it is this group that
provides the limits for his action.

The Theory of Limits must become an inte-
gral part of all our lives. Those who still cling to
modernism must realize that self-destruction is

 

Oh! I'm sorry, I thought "Men" was an all-

 

inclusive term!

 

 

 

Cartoon says all

 

My VIEw

has helped to bring about are clearly detrimental to
the survival of man. Polluted water and air, mas-
sive starvation and poverty alongside the most
opulent wealth.

Obvious to any casual onlooker is the fact that
spirituality has a strong hold over many societies,
Islam controls the Middle East, Catholicism con-

 

Joshua Manning

inherent in their beliefs. When the large majority
Leigh Allen

of society willingly submits itself to limitations, is
this mass stupidity and foolishness? More likely it
is inherent element of self-preservation.

 
 
    

ee
Assistant News Editor Greg Patterson
Editorial Page Editor Francesca Kefalas
te Sean O'Rourke
Pe 8 Joyce Bautista

By Prof. Pamela H. Simpson

     
      

I drew this cartoon based on a line somcone told me, '
so the cartoon is original but I borrowed the punch line
from oral tradition.

The cartoon style is based on my favorite New

1 am indebted to the contributors to New
Perspectives Quarterly for many ideas presented

   

CNN 0) Saher at ee ese Craig Burke
Photography BGUOE ccc ce ees eisai Teresa Williams
MOOTO COMING 8 a ie Jeb Tilly

Business Manager oc ccc cet crete eee wr ene
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Simonton
ee ee Whitney Swift
Benjamin Plummer
Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but also
from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the PAi office, Room 208 of the
University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity,

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

 

ad

trols Latin America, and Hinduism and Buddhism

 
   

FlJl's 100 innings
is appreciated

To the Editors:

I just want to thank all those who participated
in or made donations to Fiji’s 100 Innings this past
Sunday to benefit the American Cancer Society in
memory of my father. In April of last year, my
father learned that a cancerous tumor had formed
in his colon. Although the tumor was immediately
removed, he died a week before Christmas, hardly
eight months later, the cancer having spread to his
intestines, stomach, bones, liver, kidneys and lungs
and having formed tumors on his hip and verte-
brae.

 

here.

 

LETTERS

Of course, most of those who contributed to
100 innings this year did not know my father, and
many probably do not even know me. Still, they
are all aware of what a horrible disease cancer is
and how far we still have to go to find a cure or at
least a form of treatment that is not as painful and
debilitating as the disease itself. Thanks to the
awareness and generosity of these people, Fiji was
able to raise over $600 this year, almost twice as
much as in years past.

Again, thank you to all who took part in this
benefit, and especially to the brothers of Phi
Gamma Delta for remembering my father in this

Yorker cartoonist, but itis an original drawing and setting

(mine),

 
  

way and for their continuing support. My mother
and brother likewise thank all of you.

Sincerely,
Seamane Flanagan ‘92

Catholics can't
vote for either party

To the Editor:

I am writing to respond to the letter printed in
last week’s edition of the Phi, “Catholics must
vote pro-life,” by Joseph E. Valley. I am a practic-

 

LETTERS continued on page 3»

   

 

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 21, 1992

 

 

 

OPINION rn
| GENERAL NOTES

 

 

 

 

   
      

 

 

LETTERS

v LETTERS continued from page 2

 
  

to do with clarity and directness achieved within

 

the rules of grammar through the right choice and Projection ists Brothers/Sisters
ing Roman Catholic and, as such, was quite sur- linkage of nouns, verbs, mood, voice and so forth. Do you want to earn extra mon- Big brothers and sisters are
prised to hear Mr. Valley’s statements concerning (which I supported and continue to support) nec- (pronouns take care of themselves.) ey during the next academic needed for incoming foreign
who / must vote for. Mr. Valley suggests that to essarily decreased the number of male students at Grammar and style aside, Handelman’s daft year? We are looking for a few exchange students. Interested?
vote for, or in any way support, one of the two the University. This has made it increasingly dif- decree, and Simpson’s support of it, bring to the good students who are interest- Please call Mrs. Rogers at the
Democratic candidates for President, would be a ficult to provide the number of voices necessary to fore two questions: to what extent will students’ ed in being trained as projec- Red House, 463-8936.
mortal sin and would cause one to “go to Hell,” sustain an all-male chorus. Inaddition, Ithink itis {freedom of expressing be curtailed; and to what tionists for the new Troubadour
because they advocate the freedom of choice. He —_ nly proper that the University Chorus of mixed ¢tent will the entire faculty be made a laughing- cinema/theater. Contact Carol
says that I, as a Catholic, must either vote for the —_ygices should become the “premiere singing group stock? Gender neutral pronouns could be only the Calkins (8590) or Dean Atkins £5. Internshi Ss
Republican candidate or not at all! on campus” (to use the words of Messrs. Peppers beginning. Further fatuities could be gender neu- (8753) before the end of school. Information for Fall 1992 intern-
Now, I am well aware of the Church’steach- and Bell). It would be grossly unfair to render ‘al other parts of speech, like “woperson” for ships at the White House can be
ings on abortion, that it is murder, and therefore a roughly one-half of the student body (i.e., sopra- “Woman” and “fething” for “female.” Handelman Intern ships obtained from Professor Con-
sin. However, if I, or any other Catholic, were to ng and altos) ineligible to sing with the “premiere and Simpson, flaunting their tenure, might decide Internships are available with nelly in D.C. at (202) 797-6000
accept Mr. Valley’s interpretation of the “law,” it group,” which would be the effect of maintaining that, since most first names are gender specific, all ASET, a consulting firm focus- ext. 4042 between 9 and 5 p.m.
would not be possible for us to remain citizens of the Glee Club in that position. their students adopt gender neutral name pseud- ing on marketing and business
the United States. Mr. Valley specifically states Ihave not spoken with Dr. Spice in any detail Onyms inthe classroom --- “Pat” and “Kelly,” say, consulting for firms interested in
that anyone who, “becomes a voluntary partici- _n this subject, so I donotknow thechainofevents 0 “Mariun” and “Fransus.” And outside the class- doing work in the former Soviet Boulder Trip
pant in a process which ultimately leads to mur- —_ which Jed to this decision. Ido know that he alone 0m should not the Dining Hall label its clam Union. Applicants must have Andy Bleyer is driving to Boul-
der...(commits) a mortal sin.” If this weretrue, we, —_ ig responsible for the degree of musical excellence chowder as “Thinghattann” style? And a background in the Russian der "Col on June 1st and is
as Catholics, would not even be able to pay taxes, which the Glee Club achieved, and I am sure that “SOmeonecott” force Il Palazzo to list “Iticotti” language. Knowledge of busi- looking for a passenger to share
as tax funds go to support abortion clinics. They this decision could not have been an easy one for ®Mong its entrees? Man, --- whoops, Person, --- ness, other languages or com- driving and expenses. Call 464-
also support Capital Punishment, another formof him, I trust implicitly both his judgement and his the opportunities to whack student rights and puters would be helpful but is 6154
“murder” as defined by the Catholic Church, and ability to see past his feelings to make a decision ©XP0se the faculty to more ridicule are almost not required. Applications are
conveniently not mentioned by Mr. Valley. What —_ which is best for W&L’s musical program. endless! being accepted now. For a full Mi : U PS
is the difference between a Democrat who sup- Regarding the authors’ suggestion that the description, see the CDPO or ISSINg
ports abortion and a Republican who supports the end of the Glee Clubis the equivalent of theend of Very truly your, Ms. Lorig. TWO: Vee DRCNAmes peCKepes
Death Penalty? ; male chorus music at W&L, I feel sure that the E.S. Epley ‘49 “ _— from the ig Delt
Mr. Valley’sinterpretation of CatholicCanon tenors and basses in the University Chorus will ee
Law is distorted and self-serving, not to mention _ have voices of sufficient quality tokeeppieceslike P.S. Maybe Handelman will changer her name to Hometowns erington at 463-3157.
impractical. Rather than reading into the teaching —_Biebl’s “Ave Maria” and “Shenandoah” in the Handelperson. Seniors: if you have forgotten to
of the church to find the most number of possible musical repertoire. Iam confident that the Univer- fill out your hometown grad- Are You Funny?
restrictions, might we be better served by attempt- sity will not jettison all-male (or all-female, for uation release information The Ring-tum Phi is lookin fo
ing to find ways to prevent women from needing _ that matter) choral selections merely because the ee Ee mM a S S mM ed in| sheets, please do so immediately a mer columnist for nar fall
abortions. For instance, more social programs tO Glee Club no longer exists. la IS and turn them in to the news conn, Pintns subenit:e:cemele of
keep the young and impoverished of this country In closing, I concur that we can expect no ' ' office on the first floor of Reid your writing to the Phi alan in
(men as well as women) in school so that they “Jazarus-like” resurrection of the Glee Club. Inmy an Evil Em pl re Hall. room 208 of the University
might learn about safe sex and responsibility, and —_ experience, good things eventually end and, if one Center.
programs to put single mothers and others back ig Jucky, better things take their places. I am Writina Center
into the work force and into life, sothattheyknow —_ confident that from the ashes of the W&L Glee A g :
i laa shew . To the Editor: The Writing Center will be open Keep It
more than one way to accomplish something. C}ub will rise the University Chorus, a musical ; W. da fet :
These types of programs would surely be more phoenix unlike anything the University has ever Our most precious freedom, that of a free - ve ce ys and This is the last issue of The
productive than saying “vote Republican ornotat heard. press, has been stolen. An Evil Empire, beaten into P — oe ie ’ ae Ring-tum Phi for the year. The
all,” especially since the very people who Mr. Non in cautus futuri. steers Depron pape aha nongr 28'S d a hi wae h - ace —
Valley does not want us to vote for, are the ones Europe and the old USSR, is flourishing here in eo
proposing programs like the ones suggested here. Very truly yours America. The leftist/elitist, trash America at any ts woe Sen ay
: ; urs, : . ind are encouraged to sign up
Inclosing, I would liketo say that, personally, Powell M. Leitch, III 84, °87L time for any reason, radical movement, has taken get. ig Selly Obimeniath ‘led th
Ihave not totally made up my mind on the subject over our news media. Our “messenger” is a wolf a oa y. ao a dn aaa G y i face ah ODINTOR tne
of abortion, but I know fanaticism when I hear it, in sheep’s clothing. sities a, sr ea

 

and I’ve been hearing ita lot lately from both sides These radicals have built a new Iron Curtain

of the debate. While I still agree with the church G i between truth and the American people, a new pet roni anise ARES RNB SIRS NOPE A ET CRE RTE SOS STR RHP ERIE EN STDP TCE TICS! A ECORI AASESE MED
has ded airis fan aint a mks Mr. Valley's © n d Ce r nN e U t ral Ity Berlin Wall between news and reality. Their most

 

 

 

 

letter serves as a prime example of the extremes to O e S t O O f ar recent schemes include cheerleading negative eco- Colonnade Crossword
which some “pro-life” supporters would like to go g nomic news and unrelenting virulent and treason- nonnee ;
in restricting personal freedom beyond abortion. ous attack on the presidency. Every time one of 1 Current of air
I, for one, am not about to allow that to happen. their devious, dull witted and intellectually dis- 10 Fr. and Ger.
To the Editor: honest hacks (Rather, Gumbel, Sesno et al) have raters “hay”
Sincerely yours, In their “My View” article inthe April 30 Phi, twisted, omitted, used innuendo or lied for their 15 Seeger or
Patrick McDermott ‘94 Law school students Mitch Neurock and Karen own purposes, they have put another nail into the 16 Vegetable
Orr disparaged Law School Professor  coffinof freedom. A freedom earned for 200 years io
Handelman’s ukase about genderneutral language. _ with the blood and lives of thousands of patriotic ie tse
(Summed up, her bull was “Use gender neutral Americans. 23 Consumed
Al | -M al e ch orus pronouns when you write for one of my classes or | “Pravda niet Pravda y Izvestia niet Izvestia” ts anchor
. NIH ay I’ll mark:you down.”) Neurock’s and Ofr’s well’ was a'favorite Slogan of the world diplomatic (} P °°" / SPER Ape Basen
i S Nn ot re al Stl ° written piece brought a May 7 letter to the Editor corps in Moscow in the old USSR. Pravda is the 28 Line of ettohes
from Professor Simpson. She sarcastically lam- Russian word for truth and also the name of the 36 — mater
bastes Neurock and Orr for confusing grammar Communist Party newspaper. Izvestia is the Rus- bios
with style when she is the one confused, patroniz- sian word for news and also the name of the state ie Norhoverte
To the Editor: ingly lectures them on what they will find in the newspaper. The slogan therefore was “THE plant
I read with interest the opinion of Messrs. “real world... of professional writing” andaccuses  TRUTHIS NOTTHETRUTH AND THENEWS 3 Foomate, of 0 ©1992 Tribune Media Services, inc 05/21/92
Peppers and Bell concerning the University’s de- them of “(trying) to perpetuate language forms IS NOTTHENEWS.” Thatisno longer true in the 44 Holy woman: Mt Na Rese
cision to terminate the existence of the Glee Club that are outdated and exclusive...” old USSR, but very sadly, is now true here. This is 45 Skill om Last Week’s Answers:
at W&L. This opinion appeared in the May 7, Simpson writes referring to the Neurock/Orr _ not the country I grew up in. y peg rte coe j
1992 issue of The Ring-tum Phi. As an alumnus article, “...they claim that their desire to use ‘men’ Make no mistake about it, an insidious, re- lca. aaa
and former president of the Glee Club (1984), I when they mean ‘people’ and ‘he’ when they _lentlessand powerful evil has enveloped our coun- ci. - Binet
feel compelled to add my voice to the cacophony mean ‘someone’ is ‘good grammar.’ No it is not. try like a black cloud. A contrived conspiracy, 59 Certain palm 25 Watchword
on this subject. It has nothing to do with grammar.” Huh? A uniquely designed to capture your every thought eo holese ee
I understand and share, to some degree, the pronoun’s agreement in number, person, and gen- and control your political actions, is constantly at He dled 5, SE
emotion and nostalgia which the prospect of the der with its antecedent is pure grammar and has__ work. 63 Pants pert 30 Soden |
end of the Glee Club creates. However, while I nothing to do with style. What, then is style? To The citizens of today face the challenge of 65 Frog cousins 32 Approached
agree in principle that we should preserve the past Simpson, “style... (is) a matter of deciding (the having an America of the Manchurian Candidate oown vase caer
for the future when it is possible to do so, I gender of the pronoun antecedent and its number Or that of Patrick Henry. Lane ay = } A
respectfully disagree with these gentleman onthis as singular or plural).” That’s wacko. Gender and 3 Century plant 42 Weathercock
issue. number are givens of the subject matter about John B. Thosteson a” Beant 06/18/82
The decision to bring co-education to W&L —_ which nothing has to be decided further. Style has Roswell, GA Gexnausied «49 Where the 51 Defects 55 Top player
7 Printed matter action is §2 Look: furtively 56 Peter, Paul and
8 Mel of baseball 50 Wasinaspeed 53 Welsh name Mary
9 Individual contest 54 Add liquor to 58 In the manner of

 

 

 
   

Interviews and photos | TALKBACK

by Jameson Leonardi

What do you wish you were
doing this summer?

 

 

 

 

 

Michelle Hobbs, ’94, Brent- Ted Dimitry, °95, Houston, Andrea Cobrin, ’94, Wayne, Pa. and Julie Townsend, ’94, Knoxville, Wiemi Douoguih, ’92, Mont- Eric Young, ’94, Columbia,
wood, Tenn. — ‘‘Working at Texas — ‘‘Spending three Tenn. — ‘‘Selling umbrellas and fake Guccis in Jamaica.”’ clair, N.J. — ‘Taking a three- S.C. — ‘Running for pres-
Opryland.” months on topless beaches in month nap.”’ ident.””

Europe.”’

 

 

 
Page -

 

 

Wé&LIFE

 

 

Don't forget to watch your fly

Fly fishing requires a sportsman's full attention and complete concentration

 

By Joyce BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

The unusually wet spring has not kept some
avid fly-fishermen from pursuing the sport they
enjoy.

“The recent rains make the water muddy and the
fish don’t bite,” junior Holt Crews said.

The lures used in fly fishing are scentless, so the
fisherman depends on the “look” of the lure, he said.

“Besides that, the only adverse effect the rain
has is getting wet,” Crews said.

Junior Garrett Lischer calls Crews a “fanatic.”

While Crews would continue to fish, Lischer
said he would rather stay indoors when it rains and
gets cold.

: Philosophy Professor Charles Boggs finds the
recent wet weather a plus for fly-fishermen because
of the added nutrients the mud brings into the rivers
and streams.

“The fish are enjoying a bounty right now,”
Boggs said. “A wet spring is ideal for fishermen.”

- “It’sagreat escape,” Lischer said. “It helps you
forget about everything else.”

According to Lischer, he prefers to fly-fish in
the Shenandoah National Forest, which is about a
two-hour drive from Lexington. Though the rain-
bow and native brook trout are smaller, he said they
aye “wilder” and make for more challenging sport.

- “You can tell the difference between stocked
and wild fish by the amazing color of the smaller,
unstocked fish,” he said.

* The South River, which is near Lexington, is
stocked by local game officials, Lischer said.

“Stocked fish are more lethargic,” he said.

According to Crews, most rivers around the
Lexington area are stocked. Crews said in addition
to the Shenandoah National Forest, he likes to fish
the Jackson River for rainbow trout.

According to him, a great stretch of the Jackson
ig “catch-and-release,” where fish are put back after
being caught.

“This allows the fish to get bigger,” Crews said.

The Jackson is an experimental river, Crews
said. It was stocked heavily for a year in the hopes of
spurring natural reproduction.

Fly-fishermen can fish for trout during almost
every month of the year, Boggs said. He fishes the

 

  

 

 

Crews

gamut of locations, “from nameless mountain brooks
to the James River.”

Boggs said he fishes alone 99 percent of the
time.

“(Fly fishing] leads you to a deeper understand-
ing of aquatic eco-systems,” he said. “You have a
better understanding of the insect life of the stream
in relation to the other life in the river as well as the
cycle of the seasons.”

Anthropology Professor John McDaniel said
the number of fly-anglers is growing.

“Casting doesn’t take strength,” he said. “It
requires wonderful athletic ability, grace and coor-
dination.”

Fly fishing is one of the few sports where men

 

ne”

 

ov3on ne em

=

PHONE: 463-1712 +

 

aes eee

«  Goop Luck GraDUATES

Don’t forget to pick up your disks

and Résumés before you leave.

FAX #: 463 - 6918 ad
125 W. NELSON ST. + LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA + ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

130 S. Main St.
-SERVICITAR.

  

 

 

  
  
 

he

=.

7*

Pan eee

HARRIS TEETER MEANS
LOW PRICES!

       
  
 
  

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 South Main St., Lexington, VA 24450

and women compete together, he said. McDaniel
has worked for Mel Krieger, who he calls “the most
prominent instructor in the world.”

“Many fly-fishermen are attracted to the aes-
thetic appeal of casting,” McDaniel said. “It’s a
beautiful art form.”

According to Lischer, unlike fishing with a
spinning reel, where one cast sends the weight into
the water, fly fishing requires casting the line back
and forth until enough line is out. The rods are also
lighter and longer than other fishing rods.

“It’s more fun to catch on a fly-rod,” Crews
said. “Lots of time is spent not using the reel at all.
Instead of rod and reel, it’s you fighting the fish.”

According to Boggs, in the last 10 years fly
fishing has become immensely popular.

Lischer agrees, adding that fly fishing has be-
come one of the “yuppie sports of choice” in the last
few years.

“Most of those people think you need a credit
check before buying anything,” he said.

According to Boggs, fly fishing equipment
needn’t be expensive.

“It’s a matter of understanding the animal and
its habitat,” Boggs said. “It’s a matter of knowing
how to take care of yourself. Experience has to be
earned and learned, not bought.”

Boggs, Crew and Lischer all agree that the most
important thing to do if one wants to learn how to fly-
fish is to be taught by a competent, experienced
fisherman.

According to McDaniel, important factors in
the future of fly fishing are environmental problems
such as acid rain and excessive timbering.

Regardless of the pressing problems of envi-
ronment, fly-fishermen still enjoy the time spent
outdoors.

"After I caught my first fish," Lischer said, "I
was hooked."

“Everytime I go out I learn more about nature,”
Boggs said. “After 30 years there are alot of legends,
rituals, stories and running jokes among friends.”

    

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon 463-7969

 

 

463-2242

 

 

JUMBO

VIDALIA
ONIONS

LB.

 

 

 
     
       
  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 21, 1992

 

 

Coping with grief and death

Remembrance helps soothe the pain of loss

 

ASK Dr. WORTH
By Dr. James Worth

Given the tragedy that befell
our campus last Monday I am de-
parting from my usual “Ask Dr.
Worth” format to say some things
about shock and grief and death. |
do this with full awareness that noth-
ing I could write will in any way
soften the impact of this loss
nor shield us from the pain
of the mourning that needs
to be done.

Reactions to a sud-
denandunexpecteddeath \\\
are highly individual with
no two people responding in
exactly the same way. Still, there
is a general pattern into which many,
if not most people fall.

The usual first reaction is shock
and disbelief. This cannot be true; it
could not have happened. The de-
nial might be amomentary flicker of
doubt or a complete non-acceptance
that lasts for minutes or hours.

Following the first wave of
shock and disbelief can come a pe-
riod of uncertainty, confusion and
disorganization. Some will cry, oth-
ers will seek privacy and withdraw
into themselves.

Others still will seek shelter in
contact with someone they trust, such
as a close friend or relative.

There is a strong sense of want-
ing to do something but feeling that
there really is nothing anyone can
do.

ass
Ss
ce : i

‘

Out of this can emerge feelings
of helplessness and anger. The an-
ger often is diffused, directed at no

 
   

person in particular. But sometimes
a target is found.

A person might blame someone
else or they might even find a reason
to blame themselves and feel guilty.
In most cases, the anger is a product
of the helplessness and pain one feels
when through death one is separated
permanently from another. It can

also be outrage at the apparent
meaninglessness of the death.
For most people these
symptoms will pass into a
stage of resolution and true
acceptance,
Obviously the re-
lationship the individual has
had with the one who died
will determine to a great extent
how intense and how long the griev-
ing process will be.

I suspect for many of us here at
W&L the next few weeks are not
going to be easy.

We can help one another by
listening, by caring, by nurturing and
by accepting the grief we feel, col-
lectively and individually.

Many people are available to
listen. By all means, talk through
your feelings with someone else.

When someone I know dies, I
try to set aside some time for reflec-
tion. What was this person’s mes-
sage to me in the sense of what they
stood for and what kind of life they
lived? What did they teach me and
what in them will live on in me?

As we grieve Lisa Corwin's
death, let us also celebrate her life
and resolve to carry on the warmth,
compassion and joyfulness she
brought into our midst.

  

 

Storage bins
available
on Rt. 60

Vita & Associates
Realty
463-9551

PRICE REDUCED

 

 

 

 

 

|| U.S.D.A. CHOICE
|| T-BONE
(| STEAK

 

 

 

  
 
 
  
 
   
     
   

SEVERAL

Lb.

GROUND FRESH
TIMES DAILY.

ICEBERG

39

CALIFORNIA “=

 

  

school's over... now get a real education.

weeks

includes
air and most meals!

call (800) 466 0610

“from @ast coast Conditions apply

contiki

 

   
  
  
    
 

 

GALS.
FOR

 

 

LETTUC

i He REDUCED SAVE $1.29 SAVE $1.29
| REVERS WISE
POTATO CHIPS

&9

ICE CREAM

2/00

REGULAR
OR LIGHTY
SALTED

*BBQ

eSALT AND
VINEGAR

6 OZ. Be

 

 

 

 

 

 

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

 

 

 

 

 

 

| ER:

24 - 12 OZ. CANS

 

 

  

BUY ONE GET ONE FREE

BUY ONE 16 OZ. PACKAGE OF BALL
PARK MEAT FRANKS, BUNSIZE
FRANKS OR LITE FRANKS AT REGULAR
PRICE AND GET ONE LIKE PACKAGE

REDUCED SAVE 68¢
KINGSFORD CHARCOAL

BRIQUETS

 
 
  

EXE
| 8 PIECE FAMILY PACK
FRIED CHICKEN

AVAILABLE
IN MOST
HARRIS
TEETER DEL
BAKERIES

  

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

YOUNG AND TENDER
CHICKEN FRIED IN
CANOLA Ol

10
POUND
BAG

1.99

 

Aaa | OFFER EXPIRES |
BB] MAY 26, 1992

 

 

 

 

 

'ISAVE 60¢ PER POUND
SOUTHERN STYLE

POTATO SALAD .

 

 

KINGSFORD CHARCOAL

LIGHTER CAN 32 OZ.

 

 

 

009 Prices Effective Through May 26, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, May 26, 1992. In Rockbridge County Stores Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 21, 1992

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L community mourns loss

v CORWIN continued from page 1 ‘

 

German spring term.

Crockett said Corwin’ was
friends with other German students.

‘‘The German students are a
tight-knit group who socialize out of
class,”’ he said. ‘‘Lisa was very much
a part of that group and very much a
part of German here.”’

Corwin played outfield for the
club softball team, where captain Jill
Jacques will remember her as a dedi-
cated player.

“‘She was one of the backbones
of the team, always there and always
enthusiastic,’’ Jacques said. ‘“*She was
very supportive whether she was
playing or not.”’

Junior Shannon Smith, one of
Corwin’s friends, said she was in-
volved with so many aspects of cam-
pus life that she is certain to be
missed.

 

ee, +s ; Habitat for Humanity thrift shop on Main St. near Cameron Hall. The shop asks

Courtesy of Rockbridge Daily P: P
Smith be ghee — . igi ally Press | Students to donate furniture, dishes and other household items. It does not accept
cataed : Lisa Corwin clothes. Call 464-HOME.

 

 

 

 

2 *

es

 

 

The Price is Right

Photo by Teresa Williams, The Aing-tum Phi

 

 

Anne Davis, Mata McGuire, Peggy Riethmiller and Suzanne Read sort items at the

 

 

 

 

Come to your Printing Center for:

+ Flyers and Posters

* Copying and Printing
¢ Programs

° Newsletters

* Custom Resumes and Letters
¢ Transparencies

« Brochures and Booklets

¢ Scanning

University PRINTING CENTER 1st Floor Reid Hall - 463-8448

Authentic Chinese Cuisine
Luncheon Specials * Extensive Dinner Menu

Page 5

Class of 96
full of brains
and brawn

v CLASS continued from page 1

Kozak said the state of the eco-
nomy may be causing students to
concentrate more on their futures.

‘*‘We’re seeing students who are
more focused on what they'll be
doing in four years,’’ she said.

Kenneth Ruscio, associate dean
of the Commerce School and former
associate dean of students for fresh-
men, believes W&L has been consis-
tently drawing a high caliber student
body and that the trend is more
steady than sharply upward.

“The academic quality of the
students has been uniformly high
since I’ve been here,’’ Ruscio said,
who became an assistant professor of
politics in 1987. ‘‘I’ve seen a high
level of work here, and that hasn’t:
changed.”’ :

 

 

 

   

(srFoqNo

SPRING SALE

   

The Printing Center offers quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job return, and
competitive pricing. We have a Macintosh IIx which can read IBM disks. Scanned
images can be added to your campaign or organizational flyers for that individual

services cover University and non-profit organizations. Stop by today!

appearance. Need a high resolution output? We offer our Linotronic 200SQ. Our

Beer * Wine * Exotic Cocktails

 

 

Sogitee cane

 

 

Catering Available

Sunday Buflet 11:30 A.M. - 3:00 Png, Complete Carry-Out Monn
Leach ed Dinner 463-3330
1190 AM-le PM Ren’ aa

 

 

All Winter Merchandise — 2 Off
“Spring Fashions Are In”

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

 
 

    

 

 

 

 

 

Terr

Outlet Stores

Don’t forget to shop in our new BARGAIN ROOM

30 S. Main Street
R.E. Lee Building
9:30-5:30, Mon.-Sat.

463-9730
50-80% Savings on Nationally Advertised
Catalog Brands

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ask For Our May
Appreciation Coupon
Sundays - Rent 2 Movies,

Get 1 Free (99¢ Movies Excluded)

New Movies This Week
My Giri
JFK
The Golden Years by Stephen King

MasterCard & Visa Accepted

Oniyenal

Male

A MORE CREATIVE APPROACH

 

All W&L Art
25% Off

   
  
     

a’ Redken # Paul Mitchel Sebati,
x plan

      

 
 
        
 

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

The Department of Theatre
at
Washington and Lee University

resents
A Funny Thing
Happened on the Way
Lo the Forym

May 22,23,25,26 and 27 at 8 p.m.
May 24 at2 p.m.
The Lenfest Center

/ Deavers Alley Business diiitle
UPS SHIPPING

Typed
Resumes, Cover Letters & Envelopes
Laser Printing and FAX Service

 

 

 

 

203 N. Main Street

 

 

 

Valley TrueVahu.

E. Nelson St,, Lexington

 

 

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

pen Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00 Sun. 1:00-5:00

463-2186

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20% off

Ladies Dept.
All
Spring & Summer Clothing
Now

20% off

College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 

 

   

| 463-9455
4 East Washington St.
464-6464
Men's Dept. igralirxe Foods
All Taylor & Ellestad
Shorts - Shorts - Shorts — oe
: a menu change?
Including Duckheads Have a sick friend?
Are Celebrating a birthday?

Wanting a special dinner?
Studying for exams?
Celebrating Graduation?
Just Plain Hungry?

Store Hours: Tues.-Fri. 11:00-6:00; Sat. 10:00-1:00

 

Always available - a varying array of appetizers,
entrees, vegetables, salads
and desserts for the times you want to
leave the cooking to us.

Fresh every day - different every day!

 

631 Waddell St., Lexington, VA 24450 © 703-463-5004

Quality catering for all occasions.

 

 

     
   

 
     

 

 

 

 

CONGRATULATIONS
CLASS OF '92!
Seniors
* 25% off your purchases *
on Wednesday, May 27, 1992
Must Show Your W&L ID

W&L Bookstore

*excludes music, sundries & film

The W&L Stamp

 
   
   

escort

\Té) WASHINGTON ooL EC UNIVERSITY 19

 
 

Scott No. 982
This stamp, issued in 1949, makes a great momento of Washington and
Lee. Or a nice touch used (with 26¢ additional postage) on graduation
announcements.
We have a large stock of mint stamps which were cancelled in Lexington

on the day of issue.
Singles 25¢
Plate Blocks (4) $1.25
Full Panes (50) $10.50
First Day Covers $1.00 to $3.25

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES
31 South Main St., Lexington 463-3355

Aluin-Beuniz

102 W. Washington St.

“Congratulations Seniors”’

—Suits by Haspel, Dritskey & Bowdon
—Duckhead Shorts & Pants

—Shoes by Sperry, Bass & Walkover
—W&L Belts, Ties & Dog Collars
—Ray-Ban Sunglasses

—Red Wing Boots

 

 

 

 

    
 
 

Since 1963

StudentCharge
(703) 463-5382

 

 
Have a great

summer

Che Ring -tum Phi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK

Good Luck.
Seniors

S

 

 

PAGE 6

{SPORTS NOTEBOOK!

the year, Guilford twice and Chris-
topher Newport College. W&L fin-
ished 10th at the national tourna-
ment last year and 7th in 1990.
The Generals water polo
team finally received their long
awaited postseason honors. The
sport is played in the fall, but the
the U.S. Collegiate Division III
Water Polo All-America team was

MAY 21, 1992

Baker eliminated in the round of 16

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

 

 

 

From Staff Reports here. So I have to work for that.’’

All-in-all, Baker said it was a
successful year and she was happy
with everything.

“Tl played well, up to my
ability. I was happy with the year.”

This year will be a tough one
to top, but Baker says she’s not even
worried about that.

“I’m not even worried about
next season. I’m going to practice at
home during the summer and worry
about winning or losing. With tennis,
you have to go out and play your
game.”’

Baker also realizes she will

“‘On that particular day he was
just better than I was,’’ said Yates.

“At this level, it just depends
on how you’re playing on that day.”’

Yates, a transfer from the
United States Naval Academy, was a
three-time ODAC champion, one for
singles, two for doubles. His singles
title came this year as well as the
honor of ODAC Player of the Year.

 

Postseason honors have been
bestowed on eight Washington and
Lee athletes from three different
sports.

First off, the W&L women’s
lacrosse team placed three players
on the Brine/IWLCA South Region
All-America squad. Sophomore

 

Marilyn Baker has achieved
another milestone in the first year of
her Washington and Lee career.

Baker became the first Wash-
ington and Lee women’s tennis player
to win a match at the Division III
Individual Championships.

Senior Richard Yates ended an
excellent tennis career on Monday
after losing in the first round of the

 

midfielder Angie Carrington and
senior defender Whitney Hopkins
were both voted to the first team.

Ironically, Carrington was not
selected to the All-ODAC team
after ending the year with 19 goals
and 10 assists in just 11 games,

Hopkins helped anchor the
Generals defense, which allowed
just 81 goals in 15 games. She also
scored an important goal in the
overtime victory over Roanoke in
the ODAC finals.

Senior Kimberly Bishop was
an honorable mention selection at
the attack position. She ended her
career as W&L’s leading scorer
with 122 goals, 34 assists and 156
total points.

Senior Clay Thomas was the
only member of a solid W&L golf
team to make the NCAA Division
Ill golf championship at the
Wooster Country Club in Wooster,
Ohio. Play began Tuesday for the
ODAC Player of the Year, whose
stroke average this year is 77.7.

The Generals were not se-
lected to the team competition for
the first time since 1989. W&L
finished 7th at the distinguished
Gordin Collegiate Classic and was
the only team from that tournament
not to make the national competi-
tion. The Generals also disposed of
two other tournament teams during

just announced this week. The
Generals placed four players on the
squad. Senior Alan Herrick and
junior P.J. Waicus received first
team honors. Senior Will Davis
was a second team selection and
junior Chris Hagge was an honor-
able mention recipient.

The Generals finished their
season with a 15-10 record, their
fourth consecutive state champion-
ship and they placed seventh at the
Eastern Regionals.

The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s track team fin-
ished up their seasons at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina Invita-
tional at Chapel Hill. Senior
Charles Edwards broke his own
school record in the 10,000-meter
race with a time of 31:59.6. The
new school-record time earned
Edwards a second-place finish. Bo
Hannah finished fourth in the
event. While senior tri-captain Jim
Henry earned sixth place in the
shot put.

In the women’s meet, fresh-
man Sarah Gilbert set her fourth
school record, this time in the
triple jump. Her leap covered 33’-4
1/4’’. Gilbert closed out her first
season with records in the triple
jump, the long jump, the 400 hur-
dles and the 400-meter relay.

 

 

this year.
Furniture Dealers SHOE FIXERS Mountain Bike Wanted oo ee
464-6666 Anyone interested in selling a ore?
For your extra pieces of furniture SW. Tilson St. Lange cee Good Conditon.
Instant Shoe Repair Mountain Bike $200-Negotiable.
115 S. Main St., Lexington 463-2742 Half Soles in 45 min/Satin Shoes dyed in 1 hr. Please call 463-7617 463-2361

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

experience.

Career Opportunity
Local Radio Station
WREL AM & FM

Has A Entry Level
Sales Position Open

If you are an interested graduating senior, contact
Kian Putbrese at 463-2161 or stop by our offices
located at 312 South Main St. in Lexington, (Adjacent
to the Stonewall Jackson Memorial Cemetary).

Also looking for part time Board Operators with

 

 

 

 

 

HOUSE =

Restaurant}

 

WALKER)

 

 

 

 

 

Congratulations

 

 

“The win gives me a positive
look towards the future, as to what I
can accomplish here.’’ said Baker.

By receiving an invitation to
the Championships, Baker became
only the second W&L freshman
woman to make the tournament.

Baker drew Cathy Biros from
St. Thomas of Minnesota in the first
round. Baker took the match, 6-4, 6-
7(4-7), 6-1. She said she stumbled a
bit in the second before regaining her
form in the third.

“T was up 4-0 in the second
and I didn’t start playing bad. It’s just
the girl changed her game and got on
a role. In the third set I played like I
should have in the second.”’

In the second round, the round
of 16, the 17th-seeded Baker had the
unenviable task of trying to defeat
7th-seeded Katja Zarek from Kenyon.
On this day, it wasn’t meant to be.

Baker fell to Zarek in straight
sets, 6-3, 6-1, ending her stint at the
Championships. Baker said she was
beaten by a better player and feels
she learned from the defeat.

“I definitely learned some key
points in my game that I have to
work on,’” she said.

“TI need experience and a
powerful weapon. Tennis is a sport

face stern competition from her own
teammates next year.

“‘T know the number one spot
isn’t guaranteed. I have some tough
competition from some of the girls

There they go!

NCAA Division III tournament. Yates
lost to the 27th-ranked player in Divi-
sion Ill, Erik Chan of Claremont, 6-2,
6-2. Yates was ranked 42nd going

into competition.

Yates finished this year with a
record of 20-12, and his career
singles record stands at 35-32,

Till next year, Adios!

 

Photo by Beth Symonds, The Ring-tum Phi

 

where you need a big shot.”’
The loss ended Baker’s season
at 21-4, tops on the women’s team

 

Racers in the Tour Du Pont pedal through Gosh-
en during the eighth stage of the 11-stage race.
The cyclists rode more than 80 miles of Virgin-

ja’s hills and straightaways during this stage.
The eventual winner of the entire race was
America’s Greg LeMond.

 

 

       
        
  
    
     
       
    

 

 

 

 

  

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

"20% Discount on all
non-sale Items to students”

(703) 463-1620
11 E. Nelson Street

Lexington, VA 24450
VISA, MC, AMEX

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
      

Party Pics Photographer : , :
” Wanted rT Small house in town A “he K ight a

No Experience Necessary for rent, ,° tey

Transportation Desired 3 bedrooms. $675
1-800-235-5101 ,
Lee Hi Truck Stop : ‘

—_s _ Lee Hl Trucking Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers
Pearcgeauiin Scan b bua! Ove Vita & Associates Lee Hi Wrecker Service
8,000 = ae neces- Realty Lee Hi Wrecker Sales 703/463-2022
a See ee eee Lee Hi Restaurant dard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
begin aft Fe 463-9551 Standart \
Pregran call 106 8S-4i8h pe 2108 With Student L.D. Lexington, VA 24450

Artists in Cahoots

Cooperative Gallery of Local Artists and Crafts ~~

Handcrafted silver and porcelain
jeweiry, pottery, silk scarves,
sculpture, woodwork, glass, pain-
tings and photographs of local
landscapes, Lexington landmarks
and Virginia flowers.

Corner of Washington and Main Streets
Lexington
Open 10 a.m. - 5 p.m., Mon.-Sat.
Visa and MasterCard Accepted

 

 

 

 
    
   
   
 

FOR RENT:
4 bedroom, 2 baths. 1%
miles Rt. 60 East. July 1,
1992 to June 30, 1993.

463-5383

 

= An uncensored campus odyssey containing

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

You don't have to be French to
write about Washington & Lee...

The Undergraduate Almanac -
A Low Life Guide to Higher Education

by Jon Sbar'91
former Phi humor columnist

| assorted chapters on:
Class of 1992! audiotronics | *Dormitory Subculture
We Sell the Best Seats in the House Fancy Dress
$5 Luncheon Special DENON SONY ES *Greek Life
‘ . ADCOM ALPINE *
$10 Sunset Special Served Nightly MONSTER OPTONICA a. incite Seed
Featuring Outdoor dining BOSTON DEFINITIVE Announcing & special pre-publication offer
Casual Dr — preset for the Washington & Lee community
ua ess * SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM 8
* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN vines
| Ena Oa |
Reservations are recommended oe beg pd To order your book, send check or money order for $9.95 (we pay postage & handleing)
Lunch 11:30-2:00 Dinner5:30-9:00 with your complete summer address to:
(800) 468-6667 Crazed Rodent Publications
463-3020 30N.MainSt. Corner of Quen & Saray Road P.O. Box 320936, Tampa, FL 33679-0936
in the Historical RO icc ail, : nen oo Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
