THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LIE UNMIRRBITY
LEXINGTON, VA. 24460 -

MAY 15 1992

~ Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 27

WASHINGTON AND LEE

UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 14, 1992

Faculty vote kills CRC, speech code

 

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

The Washington and Lee faculty late Tues-
day voted to eliminate the controversial
Confidential Review Committee in favor of a
judicial system that could not punish students
for verbal harassment.

Under an amended proposal submitted by
the Student Affairs Committee in April, mat-
ters of physical sexual misconduct will be
heard by a Student-Faculty Hearing Board
whose procedures will be similar to the CRC.

But complaints of verbal harassment would
be handled “in personal and informal ways, not
by formal and judicial procedures,” according
to the amendment approved Tuesday.

Religion Professor Louis Hodges, who
suggested that amendment, said the CRC’s

previous policy had the potential for creating
an undesirable speech code.

“There is no need for the university to
have a disciplinary body to sit in a position of
punishing speech,” Hodges said. “It’s better to
risk injurious speech than it is to curtail free-
dom of inquiry.”

According to the new proposal, Dean of
Students David Howison will have broad
discretion in handling verbal harassment.

For example, Howison said he would con-
sider taking extreme cases of harassment to the
Student Conduct Committee if they could not
be handled informally.

Howison said in less serious cases he would
consider other options, such as counseling or
referring the case to a faculty member to help
resolve the dispute. But Howison said he can-
not suspend or expel a student.

“My primary concern was that the faculty
approve a policy that students respect and feel
is reasonable,” Howison said. “I think we’ ve
achieved that.”

A new Student-Faculty Hearing Board
will include four students appointed by the
Executive Committee and four faculty mem-
bers appointed by the Dean of the College,
according to the new policy. Like the CRC, the
board will hear confidential cases of physical
sexual misconduct that occur between students.

Six of the eight members of the board
must vote to convict, and punishment can range
from counseling to dismissal.

Howison said about 60 percent of the
faculty members voting Tuesday supported
the amended SAC proposal.

SAC recommended abolishing the CRC
after the CRC's self-study in March. In that

 

Well, first...

 

Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi

 

study, the CRC claimed the authority to sus-
pend or dismiss students who verbally ha-
rassed members of the W&L community.

Religion Profes-
sor Alexandra Brown,
who served on the
CRC for two years and
participated in the self-
study, said she believes
the CRC served an
important role in stu-
dent discipline.

Students who
have been veroally ha-
rassed may be reluc-
tantto participate in informal mediation, Brown
said, if they know there is no committee to
hear their case if mediation fails.

Students “need a body designed specifi-

Hodges

cally to handle more sensitive cases,” she said.

A recent survey indicated less than one-
third of undergraduates knew what the role of
the CRC was. That lack of understanding was
partly responsible for the faculty’s decision,
Hodges said.

“The administration did a very poor job
explaining to the student body what the com-
mittee was about and how it proceeded,”
Hodges said. “Students feared the unknown.”

Geology Professor Samuel Kozak, who
chaired the committee that formed the CRC in
1987, said only two cases were ever heard by
the CRC. That small number also indicates
many students didn’t understand the purpose
of the committee, he said.

“The CRC was controversial from the
beginning,” Kozak said. “People were criticiz-
ing it before it even met for the first time.”

Senior faces rape attempt charge

 

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Assistant News Editor

 

with attempted rape Sunday.

A Washington and Lee senior was arrested and charged

Richard F, Hughes Jr. was arrested at 4:15 a.m. after a
student from an area woman’s college said he tried to rape
her in the Phi Gamma Delta house on Preston Street.

EC says rapes could be
possible honor violations

 

Phi Staff Reporter

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS

possibility of the EC hearing a rape
case as an honor violation.

 

after FIJI Chapter Adviser

Hughes, of Moorestown, N.J., was released Sunday

 

“T think most students’ percep-

John Baizley posted a $2,000
bond, according to police
records.

The woman claimed
Hughes attempted to rape her
on the second floor of the FIJI
house Saturday night, Lex-
ington Police Chief Bruce
Beard said.

Hughes does not live in
the fraternity house, accord-
ing to one of his roommates.

Beard said the woman
reported the incident to the police about | a.m. Sunday.

Hughes declined comment. His lawyer, Thomas Simons
of Lexington, would not comment except to say he hopes
the media‘do not-overplay the case before it comes to trial,

“I would ask you guys to be fair until the facts come out
in court,” Simons said.

Baizley refused to comment on the case. FIJI House
Manager Chris Seymore said the fraternity had no com-
ment.

A preliminary hearing for Hughes in Lexington Gen-
eral District Court is set for June 16, 12 days after Hughes
is due to graduate.But a criminal investigation could keep
Hughes from receiving his diploma.

According to Dean of the College John Elrod, the
faculty has the prerogative to vote at its Baccalaurate Day
meeting to withhold a degree if a student is suspected of a
crime.

 

Hughes

 

 

 

Sculptor Branko Mendenica explains the
steps he took to restore Old George.
Medenica lectured Friday afternoon in

the library. A bronze replica of Old
top of

George was unveiled on
Washington Hall that night.

“In the past, the faculty has delayed awarding a degree
until criminal proceedings have concluded,” Elrod said.

Executive Editor Thomas Eisenhauer contributed to
this article.

 

 

FD, Mock Con make profits this year

 

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Reporter

highlight video.

 

Fancy Dress and the Mock Democratic Conven-
tion both ran under budget this year, with FD making
$7,700 and MC returning the $14,000 the Executive

Committee allotted them in the fall.

MC Treasurer Jay Darden said the convention
raised $213,407 and spent about $179,000, leaving
them with approximately $32,000 in excess funds.

According to Darden, the 1992 convention raised
$70,000 more than the 1988 convention and spent

$40,000 more than the 1988 convention.

this term that will cost about $7,000.
produce the convention’s Final Report.

Anything left over will probably go
1996 MC account, Darden said.

convention was under budget.

$5400 was spent on the filming and production of the
Darden said MC is attempting to book a band for

The rest of the extra money will be used to

The original expenses were projected to be
about $192,000, Darden said. He is not sure why the

FD made $75,658 and spent $67,979, with a
$7,679 excess, said FD Auditor Lanie Merryweather.

two corners into the one area with the ship for part of
the savings.

According to Vallotton and Merryweather, the
excess money will be spent on some needed equip-
ment improvements, like a new tarp for the gym
floor, walkie talkies and a new public address system
that will help reduce the cost of hiring bands.

Vallotton said there is a good chance some of the
money will help the Student Activities Board hire a
band for fall term.

“Fancy Dress is not intended to be profit mak-
ing, the ideal is to break even,” Merryweather said.
“We want to put the money back into something the

into the

 

The Executive Committee
would investigate cases of rape as
possible honor violations, EC mem-
bers said.

EC Junior Rep. and President-
elect Josh MacFarland said a report
of rape would be handled like any
other alleged honor violation.

“The most discussion would
occur after the investigation.” Mac-
Farland said. “If a majority of the
EC felt it needed to be brought to
closed trial it would be.”

MacFarland, however, said he
doesn’ t think most students are will-
ing to deal with rape cases.

“I don’t think Pm qualified to
handle cases of sexual assault.”
MacFarland said. “But if someone
thought their honor was violated
and someone was being dishonor-
able we would certainly hear the
case.”

Senior EC Rep. Nancy Mitchell
said the White Book is not specific
in its statement of what constitutes
an honor violation.

“One of the reasons we don’t
have anything more specific other
than lie, cheat or steal is because
honor is hard to define,” she said.

EC Sophomore Rep. and Vice
President-elect Ames Hutton said
he had not thought about the

tion of an honor violation is lying,
cheating and stealing,” Hutton said,
“Tbut] the White Book holds stu-
dents to honorable conduct.”

Hutton believes rape could be
considered a form of stealing.

“It’s a theft of someone else’s
body,” he said.

The bottom line, Mitchell said,
is that all reports of dishonorable
conduct given to the EC will be
investigated.

“Rape certainly isn’t honor-
able,” Mitchell said. “Dishonor is
dishonor.

“People know what it means to
be dishonorable. Or at least they
should.”

Nevertheless, Mitchell and
MacFarlaiid said a different group
should handle sexual assault cases.
The faculty on Tuesday approved
the creation of such a committee , to
consist of students and faculty,

“Older people’s input is valu-
able in these situations,”
MacFarland said.

“There are women on this cam-
pus who would not be comfortable
going to their peers, even elected
peers [with a rape case],’” Mitchell
said. “But if a woman felt the EC
was the appropriate body, then we
would investigate.”

 

 

 

 

#

 

bi

“We spent a good bit more on everything,” he

According to Merryweather and FD Chairman

  

students can benefit from.”

 

said. “More on production, bigger name speakers

and more speakers.”

Darden said the university’s Business Office led
him to believe the 1992 convention had a net excess

greater than any past convention.

Plans have already been made to spend the
$32,000. Darden gave the EC $14,000 to reimburse
their allotment earlier in the school year, and about

which used to purchase last minute items
what it was last year.

Vallotton said. “That adds up.”

 

 

By JENNY MITCHELL
Phi Staff Reporter

 

James W. Whitehead will retire as direc-
tor of the Reeves Center June 30 after 34
years at W&L.

director of development, assistant to the presi-
dent, treasurer, and secretary of the univer-
sity.

Whitehead’s crowning achievement
during his years at the university was the
founding of the Reeves Center in 1982, Di-
rector of Capital Projects Frank Parsons said.
The center houses the Chinese porcelain col-
lection of the late Euchlin Reeves, along with
paintings by his wife, Louise Herrefhoft

 

Reeves Center director
to leave W&L after 34 years

Whitehead has also held the positions of

~ f| Reeves.

Whitehead said
the center “can
enhance a
student’s aca-
demic studies,
professional ca-
reer and personal
life by having an
exposure at this
time in their lives
to this type of col-

 

 

Whitehead

lection.”

Whitehead will be replaced temporarily
by Executive Assistant to the President Tom
Litzenberg. A search for a permanent direc-
tor of the Reeves Center will begin in 1993

 

 

Elizabeth Vallotton, the greatest reason for staying
under budget was the handling of the petty cash fund,
. Merry-
weather said the petty cash fund was one-tenth of

“A dime here and a dime there was not lost,”

Merryweather also credits the consolidation of

under budget.

said Merryweather.

Merryweather said it is feasible for FD to stay

“If the [sub-chairmen] make an effort to stay
under budget like they did this year, it is possible,”

“One of the reasons I applied was that I didn’t
understand why no one could keep Fancy Dress
under budget,” she said. “Obviously it is possible.”

  

re

Ouch!

ah,

     

ea

Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

Senior Courtney Hall roasts a classmate while Jason Robertson,
one of the evening's emcees, waits to Invite the next participant
to the stage. The class of 1992 enjoyed a night of roasting and
toasting each other in the General Headquarters Tuesday.

 

Cadets heckle police after fight at Beta

 

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Assistant News Editor

 

Virginia Military Institute cadets yelled at
and spit on police and Washington and Lee
security officers when they went to question a
cadet about a fight at Beta Theta Pi.

Three cadets were arrested --- two for
failure to obey a police officer and one for
being drunk in public --- following the fight.

The fight broke out at Beta around mid-
night when about a dozen cadets began
slamdancing in the middle of a band party,
running into other party guests.

Some members of Beta asked the cadets
to leave. The cadets agreed and were led to the
door opening onto Jefferson Street.

But as they reached the door, one cadet
turned around, said “Fuck this” and punched a
Beta walking beside him.

As the fight intensified, the cadets ringed

the outside door. The cadets facing out the
door fought people on the outside while cadets
inside the door fought people inside.

Soon the fight moved to the middle of
Jefferson Street, where pushing occurred, but
not many punches were thrown.

WA&L Security Officer Thomas “Baner”
Bane said he was working at Phi Delta Theta
when a Beta told him about the fight.

Bane said the fight was already in the
street when he arrived.

“I came up and asked what was going on
and they all ran [toward VMI],” he said.

Bane and Lexington police, who had ar-
rived, chased the cadets up Letcher Street
Bane said the police caught two cadets, David
Youngclus and Brian Darin, before they
reached the VMI barracks

Bane said he and police then went into the
barracks to arrest a cadet he had recognized

As Bane and the officers left the barracks

with Cadet William Butler, Bane said, about
300 cadets lined the second-floor walkway,
called “the stoop,” around the building.

Lexington Police Lt. $.E. Crowder said
cadets began to chant “Hell no, we won't go”
as police brought Butler out. Cadets spat on
police and threw fruit, cans, smoke bombs and
firecrackers at them.

VMI Public Information Officer Thomas
Joynes said the cadets were provoked when a
officer who entered the barracks drew his gun
after being surrounded by angry cadets.

Joynes said another officer ordered the
first officer to put his gun away.

Beard said the officer's action was justi-
fied. “They were scared of the mob that was
developing,” he said.

Police said two Beta members were treated
at Stonewall Jackson Hospital and released

News Editor Leigh Allen contributed to
this article

 
 

Page 2

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

What's happened
to the old VMI?

Back in the 50s and 60s, VMI cadets would march down
Jefferson Street on their way to church every Sunday morning.

Inevitably, they would pass in front of Red Square, where
fraternity men were waking up, shaking off the effects of the
previous night and wandering out to meet the day.

And what happened? Unlike at Beta Sunday, no one had to
call the police.

Instead, as the line of cadets passed the fraternity houses,
the less-religious cadets would dart inside to spend their day
of rest drinking with their Mink friends.

Yes, according to most alumni from that periodmany W&L
and VMI students were actually friends.

How things have changed.

What has happened since then? Maybe Washington and
Lee has changed. Obviously, W&L has gone co-ed and now
attracts a more diverse student body. Some critics say General
Lee’s legacy has been forgotten. And while the social scene
is still dominated by fraternities, they have evolved with the
fraternity system nationally.

Nonetheless, W&L students are still dedicated to the same
standards of conduct that our predecessors maintained,

And our neighbors along the hill? Externally VMI doesn’t
seem much different: same impressive history, same
forbidding walls, same stuffy uniforms and same group of
clean-cut, perfectly postured young Virginia men.

All those young Virginians may look the same, but their
attitudes toward their W&L neighbors seem to have changed.

Recently, a Lexington defense attorney noted that he has
seen more VMI cadets in trouble with the law in the past
three years than in the previous 27.

No one ever accused W&L students of being model
Lexingtonians. However, we don’t recall W&L students
spitting on police officers any time recently.

Baner has suggested that fraternities either keep guest lists
or bar cadets from their parties. Guest lists are unwieldy and
antithetical to the sense of community W&L tries to maintain.

On the other hand, this isn’t the 50s or the 60s; cadets are
no longer part of the W&L community. They seem to like
getting drunk, trying to pick up women and starting fights, but
they don’t seem to enjoy being friendly.

We hate to judge any group on the actions of a few of its
members, but considering W&L’s experiences with cadets this
year, you have to ask how much their company is worth.

Thanks, faculty

The faculty’s elimination of the CRC comes as a welcome
relief to those of us who have regretted the general trend of
faculty and administration encroachment upon student affairs.

At the least, its action was a realistic way to rid W&L of
a dangerous and embarrassing institution. But more
importantly, it shows that the faculty has confidence in
students to exhibit proper behavior while at W&L — and to
face our mistakes when we do not.

As Dean Howison said, this is a student proposal, and it is
one of which we can be proud. But we cannot forget that with
the privilege of being W&L students comes a responsibility
that goes beyond speech codes and explicitly defined rules.

The faculty says it believes we can live up to the promise
of civil and decent behavior that we made by choosing W&L.

It is up to us to prove them right.

Quote of the Week

What we need is a community where everyone is happy ...
and flourishes.

— Associate Professor of Law Joan Shaughnessy on the
faculty’s vote to kill the CRC. (Go figure.)

 

 

OPINION

 

 

 

I HEAZD THE

THOUGHT
AND By: .

 

 

ee

Music \

=>

Z

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 14, 1992

Swann talks
about spiders

 

fast.

 

 

Let IT Ripe

By Chris Swann

I just wrenched my ankle nearly off my foot, and my
girlfriend supplied me with a number of painkillers, which
I gratefully ingested, so if I ramble a bit, forgive me. I’m in
a sort of hazy twilight right now --- I’m not sure if it’s
actually dark outside (it’s 9 pm) or if my brain just wants it
to be so. I could talk about anything in this state. I think I'll
talk about spiders.

There was a large orange spider in my girlfriend’s
bathroom today. She picked up my docksider shoe and
marched into the bathroom, ending its small, hairy life with
a brutal smack. Only it disappeared --- the smushed arachnid
was not on the floor where she had killed it five minutes
later. I’d like to think it underwent a kind of material
conversion into spiritual matter before it took off for the
great big web in the sky. My girlfriend is convinced it was
resurrected and is now lurking somewhere above the shower.

Spiders are such benevolent creatures. Oh sure, black
widows suck, but really --- they eat annoying bugs, spin
pretty little webs which inspired lots of neat metaphysical
poetry in England, and gave us Spiderman. (Excuse me, I
need another ibuprofen --- 600mg. Gulp. Much better.)

Where would our children be without Spiderman?
He’s such a nice, witty, caring superhero. Thank God for
spiders and radiation --- why, we'd have to deal with stupid
evil people like Doctor Octopus. For the record, I’d like to
clarify just what kind of a doctor old Ock really is. I doubt
he’s a pediatrician,

Tam convinced that comic book writers are all on drugs.

Look at our heroes: a guy who thinks he’s a bat, another who
leaves web-line hanging all over NYC like confetti, anda .
dude in a cape with a big red S on his chest who hails from
the planet Krypton. Please, I’m sure.

Maybe comic writers all got bitten by some strange,
mutated spider, an alien bug that stimulates imagination.
| Who could ever conceive of a guy with the reaction of a
Spider? A crazed zoologist? A spider lover? And what
exactly is kryptonite? I don’t remember learning that on the
element chart in 8th grade.

I think the comic book heroes are all a scam. Me, I’m
pulling for the spider. Just make sure he isn’t building a
home in your shower curtain. He might think you’re break-

Alum satirizes American attitudes

 

 

 

   

Che Ring-tum Phi

Bxecutive Editors .........:-
Managing Editor
News Editor

Thomas Eisenhauer, Cathy Lopiccolo
Joshua Manning
Leigh Allen
eal 0 ee Greg Patterson
Editorial Page Editor Francesca Kefalas
OU es Sean O’Rourke
ee Joyce Bautista

 

sk hs 6 ee Craig Burke
preueernny Guile ec ks aes bs Eee Teresa Williams
MU GOONS ns a es ea Jeb Tilly

Business Manager John Simonton

Assistant Business Manager ...........0ecereees Whitney Swift
Advettifts Manegt setts Benjamin Plummer
yh Ot eee ee Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but also
from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the PAi office, Room 208 of the
University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

My VIEw

By John Ryle Lawson ITI, '89

U.S.A; March 12, 2009

CHARLES: Honey, I think we
should have another kid.

ZITA: Well, I'd like to, but pro-
viding for a child is expensive. Be-
sides, we already have 17 kids as it is.

CHARLES: But Zita, you know
that money is no concern. The
Children’s Nutrition Act insures that
every child whose parents are unable
to comfortably provide for him shall
receive a food stipend from the gov-
ernment.

ZITA: How could I forget!

CHARLES: I haven’t forgotten
the Childcare At Taxpayers’ Expense
Act. With it, we don’t need to worry
about raising an additional child.

ZITA: Well, if we have another
kid, it will be nice to know that wehave
the option of free childcare. However,
I might want to take advantage of the
Family Leave Act. I'd like to spend
some time with the kids, andthe Leave
Act guarantees me thirty-six months.

CHARLES: Honey, I don’t think
your boss can afford to lose you for
thirty-six days. Do you think he’ ll want
you out for three years?

ZITA: What my boss has to say
about all of this is neither here nor
there. I have a legal right to keep my

 

job and spend time with my family,
and, dammit, I’m going to take advan-
tage of it.

CHARLES: Well, we know we
won’t have to worry about school.
Now that higher education is com-

pletely paid for by the government, we :

don’t have to shell out a cent to get a
complete education for our small army
of children.

ZITA: What are we waiting for -
-- let’s head for the bedroom. We’ve
got a baby to make!

CHARLES: Before we go, I'd
like to talk about what we’re going to
do about your mother. She’s gotten to
the point where she really needs some-
one to look after her. Also, she doesn’t
have enough money for all her health
bills.

ZITA: Well, I think we would be
wise to postpone this discussion until
we know what Congress does with the
president’s AARP bill. If the bill passes,
Mom will get enough money to hire a
nurse and pay her doctor bills.

CHARLES: That would be great.
With all the money we’d save, I could
buy some jet skis. I’d also be able to
buy those $750 running shoes I’ve had
my eye on.

ZITA: Yeah, and we could also
buy self-discipline counseling for all
of the kids. The counselors usually
charge $550 per child, but, because we

have so many, they’Il give us a group
rate of $525 per child.

CHARLES: Then it’s agreed ---
if the AARP bill passes, we won’t take
care of your mom or have her live with
us.

ZITA: Well, withallof this settled,
I think it’s time to hit the sack.

(Child #11 runs into the room)

OTTO: Mon, Dad, the president
just came on TV and said that the
budget is really messed up and the
government doesn’t have any money.
Then he said that people are going to
have to start paying for things them-
selves.

CHARLES: Pay for things your-
self! That’s ridiculous! The president
must be drunk!

ZITA: It’s not only ridiculous,
it’s unfair! What if you need money?
What about a family like us? How are
we going to feed nearly twenty chil-
dren?

CHARLES: What about the
farmers and the homeless? What about
the social workers and those work-
horses at the United States Postal Ser-
vice? What about the needy, the handi-
capped and our nation’s children?
What about the panhandlers and the
people who'd like to have socialized
health care? What about the old people?
What about space telescopes and the
IRS? What about education for the

 

LETTERS

rapists and murderers? What about the
people who do drugs all the time? The
government must cover these ex-
penses!

There’s only one solution. The
government should call out the army
and send troops tocollect lots of money
from people-who have more than they
need

ZITA: I agree. Especially when
there are people like Hank Bryant
around. He makes more than $100,000
ayear, and he has no family. He doesn’t
need all the money he earns. Plenty of
people need his money more than he
does. Why don’t they put a great big
tax on people like him?

CHARLES: Really. It would only
be fair. There are so many people who
need that money more thin a person
like Hank needs it.

ZITA: It would make much more
sense. Hank works about 60 hours a
week. He doesn’t have time to spend
that much money.

CHARLES: It’s more logical. It’s
amatter of social responsibility. When
you’re someone who makes what Hank
Bryant makes, you owe it to society to
put in your fair share during a time of
economic crisis.

This piece appeared in the Sept.
18, 1991 edition of The Independent
Florida Alligator and is reprinted with
permission.

 

Law dean sets
facts straight

To the Editor:

I have no doubt that the issue of gender-
neutral language, upon which you recently edi-
torialized, is a legitimate question for public
dialogue. But when we indulge in our increas-
ingly common habit of making individuals the
instruments of debate, as you did with my col-
league, Professor Gwen Handelman, it is incum-
bent upon us all to get the facts straight.

In the interest of doing so, and innot making
the facts stand in the way of a good argument, let
me explain precisely what Professor Handelman
did, In the course of her tax ethics seminar, she
required the students to undertake a series of
drafting assignments, drawing on regulatory lan-
guage dealing with Department of the Treasury
rules and the American Bar Association’s Model
Rules of Professional Conduct (both of which
now employ gender-neutral language). It is the
common, if not the unanimous, convention of
state governments, the federal government, and
other major drafting organizations, as well as the
American Bar Association, that statutory and
regulatory materials be drafted with gender-
neutral terminology. Doing so does not require
linguistic gymnastics, rejection of the rules of
grammar, or silly word constructions; neither
did Professor Handelman. Instead, she insisted
that the students follow the very conventions that
are widely accepted and required in the legisla-
tive and regulatory drafting context.

Sadly for those who would wish to use her
example as evidence in their own ideological

 

struggle, this is the long and short of it. There is no
ideology here, other than the ideology of following
the standard conventions of the legal system in the
training we give to students.

The characterization of Professor Handelman’s
conduct as a teacher, which your editorial rein-
forced, was quite frankly distorted. Disturbingly so
in fact. Indeed, I use that term with some care, and
in doing so indulge a presumption in favor of those
who characterized her conduct'and motives, just as
I would have hoped that they would have indulged
a similar presumption of regularity on Professor
Handelman’s part. As I said in my written response
to the (few) law students who sent mea letter raising
the issue, “You should exercise great caution before
attributing ideological or political motives to others,
and before using such words as ‘manipulated’ and
‘indoctrinate,’ when those quite serious allegations
are being directed at an identified individual in a
factual setting that clearly admits of another, much
more likely, and educationally reasonable interpre-
tation.”

Sincerely,

Randall P. Bezanson
Dean and Professor of Law

America's races
remain divided

To the Editor:
As Washington and Lee slept, wrapped in its

seemingly eternal spell of blissful harmony, the
nation’s cities erupted in a disturbing outbreak of
chaotic and brutal rioting.

We have all been forced by the shocking
footage of this exercise in mayhem to ask our-
selves what could have caused this unrest; specu-
lation abounds, answers do not.

The lesson we all ought to learn from this
tragedy is how little we really have progressed in
the last decades in resolving the racial obsession
that has always haunted our nation. We ought to
take a sober look at the reality we face as Ameri-
cans,

The sad truth is that despite superficial im-
provements in the American black’s position, he
fares little better today than he did before this
country resolved to rescue him from the predica-
ment its institutionalized racism placed him in.
Although white attitudes have changed so that
racism is no longer acceptable in the way it once
was, and the number of prominent American blacks
has risen, and other cosmetic improvements have
taken place, the American reality is that blacks still
largely languish in city ghettos scourged by crime,
drugs, broken families and poverty where the indi-
vidual is economically, mentally and spiritually
raped by the misery of hisenvironment. The Ameri-
can reality is a nation divided by race: rich and
poor, powerful and powerless. The American real-
ity is ugly. We still have a vast racial divide in this
country that, after a brief outpouring of concern,
Our government and society seem to have aban-
doned hope in closing. The recent tragedy is about
far more than a suspicious verdict; it's about an
America that is racially sick, and without sight of a
cure.

Justin Peterson, ‘94

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 14, 1992

 

Goin’ Fishin’

 

 

Freshman Orientation Committee Members Cindy Kowalyk and
Phil McKoy check what's biting in the pond at W&L’s Skylark
retreat center. The first annual F.O.C. retreat was held Sunday.

 

 

 

 

NEWS

Page 3

 

 

 

Missin

keyboard

costs Sigma Nu $750

 

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Assistant News Editor

 

Sigma Nu must pay $750 to
replace a band’s keyboard and case
that were stolen at a February party,

In a trial last Thursday, Lex-
ington General District Court Judge
Joseph Savage said it was more likely
that a party guest took the equipment
than someone off the _ street.
Therefore, he said, Sigma Nu was
responsible for the loss.

“The fraternity has an obliga-
tion to control its members and
guests,’’ Savage said.

Members of the band Leggz
filed a warrant to have Sigma Nu
replace the Korg 600 keyboard and
case after it disappeared at a Feb. 14
party at the fraternity’s house.

Leggz leader Doug Settles told
the judge that after the party, fraterni-
ty members helped carry band equip-
ment from the basement of the house
to the front foyer and front porch so
it could be loaded on a truck.

Road crew members testified
that the keyboard was in the
basement, but could not be found

when the truck was loaded.

Former Sigma Nu president
Heath Dixon told the judge that the
band could not be sure the keyboard
was ever at the house. But the Leggz
keyboardist said he played it that
night.

Dixon said he interpreted the
band’s contract to mean the fraternity
was only responsible for the
equipment during the show and not
once the show was over.

Settles said the band’s contract
covers ‘‘from the time the door on
the truck goes up and we begin to
unload to when that door is closed.”’

He said Sigma Nu members did
not allow the road crew to search the
second floor of the fraternity house.

Dixon said the crew was not
allowed upstairs because people were
already asleep. However, he said,
officers searched the rooms the next
day and found nothing.

Judge Savage said Sigma Nu
would have 10 more days to find the
keyboard, but Dixon is not hopeful.

“‘We’ve looked and we don’t
have it,’’ Dixon said. ‘‘I guess we’ll

have to pay it.”’

Students resurrect literary society

 

By CRAIG BURKE
Phi Staff Reporter

On Wednesday, May 20, a long-dead tradition
at Washington and Lee University will be revived.
The Graham-Lee-Washington Society, the
only literary society to emerge at W&L in several
decades, will kick off with a dinner-debate at 7:30

, p.m. in Evan’s Dining Hall,

Sophomore Matt Jackson, founder of the new
society, said it will be a literary society much like
those that thrived at W&L in the 1800s.

The history of W&L includes several literary
societies, two of which were the Graham-Lee
Society and the Washington Society.

Both were established in the early 19th
century and were crucial aspects of the social and
intellectual scene at W&L before the arrival of
fraternities.

Jackson and . ior Cameron Humphries are

 

Law graduation Sunday

the co-heads of the Society’s Student Executive
Board.

Once he decided to proceed with his plan for
a literary society, Jackson said the decision to
include Humphries was an easy one.

“I wanted to be open to all ideologies,’’
Jackson said. ‘‘Cameron was the natural choice,
because his views are often perceived as the an-
tithesis of mine.’’

With the help of Dean of Students David
Howison, Jackson and Humphries asked several
students to become members of the Society’s
Executive Board.

The idea was to choose people who represent-
ed many facets of student life, Jackson said.

“We wanted outspoken students who could
cultivate an interest in the Graham-Lee-Washington
Society,’ he said.

Members include students involved in the
Women’s Forum, the Minority Students Associa-

tion, University Theater and several other activities.

Freshman Kim Herring said she was interest-
ed in reviving something that used to be important
to W&L students.

“‘The Society will be an intellectual outlet for
the W&L community,’’ she said. ‘‘I hope it can
become a prominent part of the University.”’

Wednesday’s debate will focus on the issue of
public figures and their right to privacy.

That idea came after Arthur Ashe’s admission
that he has AIDS and after the uproar over an
article on the Hudnall rape trial that ran in The
Ring-tum Phi, Jackson said.

If the debate is successful, Jackson said he
hopes the Society will sponsor events every six
to eight weeks next year.

“‘We’d like to sponsor a variety of activi-
ties,’’ Jackson said. ‘‘Maybe a symposium or a
show on Channel Nine; anything that will foster
aggressive discussion.”’

 

IGENERAL NOTES,

Brothers/Sisters

Big brothers and sisters are
needed for incoming foreign
exchange students. Interested?
Please call Mrs. Rogers at the
Red House, 463-8936.

Final Film

This year’s final Film Society
presentation will be A World
Apart (USA, 1988), directed by
Chris Menges. In the film,
Menges directs Barbara Hershey
in her portrayal of a white South
African journalist arrested for
anti-apartheid activities. It
focuses on the clash between a
mother’s all-consuming political
activities and her responsibilities
to her family. Showings will be
at 8:05 p.m. on May 15 and 16
in Lewis Hall Classroom ‘‘A.’’
There will be no charge for
admission.

Amnesty

The year’s final Amnesty
Intemational meeting will be on
Wednesday, May 20, at 6:15
p.m. in Newcomb 7. We will
sign letters, welcome the new
officers and enjoy a movie and
refreshments. All old members
and those interested in possibly
joining Amnesty next year are
invited.

Internships
Information for Fall 1992 intern-
ships at the White House can be
obtained from Professor Con-
nelly in D.C. at (202) 797-6000
ext. 4042 between 9 and 5 p.m.

Hometowns
Seniors and third-year law stu-
dents: if you have forgotten to
fill out your hometown gradu-
ation release information sheets,
please do so immediately and
turn them in to the news office
on the first floor of Reid Hall.

 

Writing Center
The Writing Center will be open
on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and
Thursdays from 7 to 10 p.m. in
Payne 2B from May 5 to May
28. Students who want help
with writing projects of any
kind are encouraged to sign up
or to stop by for an individual
conference with a writing tutor.

Spout Off!
Letters to the editor can be
brought to The Ring-tum Phi
office in Room 208 of the Uni-
versity Center.

Survey Winner
Congratulations to Matt Haar,
winner of The Ring-tum Phi’s
readership survey drawing for a
gift certificate from Alvin-
Dennis. Thanks to everyone
who completed a survey.

Are You Funny?
The Ring-tum Phi is looking for
a humor columnist for next fall
term. Please submit a sample of
your writing to the Phi office in
room 208 of the University
Center.

Not for Sale

The General Notes section does
not include notices advertising
things to buy, rent, sell, etc...
This is a service to the W&L
community, not to people who
want to make money.

Get It Out

Need to get a message to the
student body? Put it in the Gen-
eral Notes. Leave a brief, typed
note in the General Notes enve-
lope outside The Ring-tum Phi
office, University Center 208.

 

 

 

By JOSHUA MANNING
Phi Managing Editor —

 

’ New YorkTimes‘columnist-Antho-
* ny Lewis will address the Law Sch-
, ool’s 137th graduation ceremony
Sunday, when 123 students are ex-

‘ pected to receive degrees.

“It’s a very good group of stu-
dents,” said Law School Dean
Randall Bezanson. ‘‘They came from
all over the country, and upon gradu-
ation they will be taking up employ-
ment coast to coast.’’

But the soon-to-be lawyers first
must pass state bar exams, and many

’ have yet to obtain employment.

Although ‘‘placement is running

a little bit ahead of last year,’’ ac-
’ cording to Bezanson, only 65 to 75
percent of the students have jobs.

prosecutor.

“I don’t necessarily perceive that
two-thirds’ of the class’ have: found
jobs,’’ Mosley ‘said: ‘‘But I have full
confidence ‘that everyone in my class
will obtain legal employment soon.”’

Another third-year is not optimis-
tic.

“T don’t doubt that the majority
of people have taken jobs,’’ said
Edward Fischman, who is studying
for the New York state bar exam.
‘*But most people took aim a little bit
lower than they had hoped to.”’

Fischman said this is a difficult
time to begin a law career.

“I’m sending resumes out to just
about everywhere that might be open:
judicial clerkships, public sector jobs
and even some private sector,’’ Fisch-
man said.

That figure is ‘‘quite good rela-
tive to a lot of law schools,’’ Bezan-
son added. The majority of those
students will work in law firms, but
others will go on to judicial clerk-

Graduation is to be held on the
Lee House lawn, beginning at 2:30
p.m. In the event of rain, the cere-
mony, which is open to the public,
will be held in the Warner Center.

Lee’s Girls

 

als
Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi

 

ships and public sector work, he said.

Class President Danielle Mosley,
who will take the Maryland bar exam
in July, is still looking for work as a

 

 

Interviews and photos
by Jameson Leonardi

Lewis, a Pulitzer Prize-winning
reporter and columnist, currently is a
visiting professor at Columbia Uni-
versity.

 

Mary Coulling, wife of retired English Professor Sidney Coulling,
tells W&L’s four sororities about her study of General Robert E.
_Lee’s daughters. Coulling spoke Monday evening in Lee Chapel.

 

 

 

TALKBACK

Raft race to highlight
Spring Fest weekend

Loewe tee eae

aft o> ‘TEMES

 

By AMY YARCICH
Phi Staff Reporter

 

After disappearing for a year,
Spring Fest will return to Washington
and Lee Saturday with a raft race on

the Maury and a reggae concert.

The Interfraternity Council,
Panhellenic Council, Minority Stu-
dents Association and Independent

Union are co-sponsoring the event.

“It’s a good chance for the
whole school to get together,”’ said

IFC President Sam Rock.

The IFC obtained permission
from the city to use the river for the

race, a new Spring Fest event. Each
home-made raft will carry four peo-
ple. Rafts will be placed in the water
3/4 of a mile upstream from the sew-
age treatment plant and taken out at
the alcove next to the plant, according
to Rock.

There is a $20 entry fee for
each raft. Proceeds will be donated to
the Rockbridge Area Recreational

 
   

If you won the lottery, how would
you spend the money’?

Organization. ’

‘*We just wanted to support the
local kids,’’ said Carrie Eubanks,
Panhel president.

Each sorority and fraternity is
expected to construct a raft, as are the
MSA and IU. Awards will be given
to the first three finishers and for the
most creatively decorated raft.

At about 2 p.m. the reggae band
New Determination will begin playing
in the Dell, behind the library.

‘Fraternity presidents voted for
reggae music for the Spring Fest
mood,’ said IFC Senior Justice Seba-
stian Cross.

Cross said Spring Fest was not
held last year because of
organizational difficulties.

‘“Everyone started working on it
a little earlier this year,’’ said Eliza-
beth Currall, who is helping to pro-
mote the event.

“*We’re hoping school spirit will
get behind it and make it a success,”’
Cross said.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Stefanie Brown, ’94, McLean,

Va, — ‘‘I’d exhume Traveller
and put him on display.’’

 

Lisa McHenry, °92, Little
Rock, Ark. — ‘“‘I’d go on a
long vacation and never have to
get a job.”

 

Graham Taylor, ’93, Portland, Ore. and John McNeer, ’93, Rich-

mond, Va, —
wanted,”

“I'd buy John that Little Bo Peep outfit he’s always

 

 

 

 

 

 

Greg Ward, ’93, MacArthur,
W.Va. — ‘“‘I’d have a week-
long Grateful Dead fest.’’

Molly Apter, ’94, White Oak,
Pa. — ‘‘I would build a mall in
Lexington.”’

 

 
Page 4

 

 

Wé&LiIFE

 

 

 

 

Marijuana and alcohol use
pose equally serious risks

 

Ask Dr. WorRTH

_______sBy Dr. James Worth

hol? If marijuana is not any more dangerous
than alcohol, why not make it legal?

AF Surprisingly, although marijuana has been
* known as a recreational substance virtually
throughout history there is little good data-

based knowledge on this drug.

Research has been mostly shut down for at least a
decade due to public attitudes.

The research done in the 60s and 70s on pot may be
obsolete now because the marijuana of today is about 30
times stronger than what folks were using back when
the Beatles were sing-

unexpectedly.
A good job could go down the tubes.
Marijuana usage has been demonstrated to lower

Which is more dangerous, marijuana or alco- the effectiveness of the immune system, reduce sperm

count in men by up to 70 percent, reduce testosterone
levels in men (but raise them in women) and negatively
affect the ability to store and process information.

A joint has about 10 times the tar of a tobacco
cigarette.

On the other hand, heavy alcohol consumption
(and not necessarily alcoholism) is associated with a
whole lot of bad stuff including brain and liver damage,
strokes, increased blood pressure and cancer.

However, light to moderate use of alcohol may
actually reduce heart disease to some extent.

About 90 percent of the people who use alcohol

will enjoy the experi-

 

ing about Lucy in the
sky.

A 1967 joint con-
tained about .05 percent
tetrahydrocannibnol
(the active ingredient in
marijuana), now it has
15 percent.

The effects of these

 

A few experimental hits
from a bong is not going
to shrivel your brain and
automatically turn you
into a crack addict.

ence and not have nega-
tive consequences, but
10 percent will have
problems.

The truth is that if
you have smoked a few
joints, aside from the
major legal hassles you
could have become em-

 

much higher levels of
THC haven’t been care-
fully evaluated scientifically.

Neither alcohol nor pot are benign drugs.

Each has its risks.

To my knowledge, no one has died directly from an
overdose of marijuana, whereas about 50 percent of the
adult population will die if they achieve a blood-alcohol
level of 0.45 percent.

On the other hand, a study using a road-side sobri-
ety test showed that 94 percent of those who had smoked
pot 1 1/2 hours earlier failed.

The testers waited until 2 1/2 hours had
passed and 61 percent still failed, indicating
that grass can significantly impair your abil-
ity to drive and will definitely increase your
likelihood of a fatal accident if you drive
while stoned.

Alcohol is water-soluble and leaves
the body relatively quickly, usually within a
period of hours.

Pot is not water soluble and is stored in fat
cells for a considerably longer period of time, possibly
indefinitely.

As drug testing becomes more sophisticated, these
residual traces of pot-smoking could come back on you

  

broiled in if caught, you
probably have not done
yourself any serious damage.

I’m obviously not advocating pot use, I’m simply
saying that a few experimental hits from a bong is not
going to shrivel your brain and automatically tum you
into a crack addict.

Having said that, I will also say there is strong
justification for not legalizing marijuana, and anyone
contemplating experimentation should consider not only
the legal risks.

They should also be aware that it is not a benign
drug.
It can cause dependency; it can sap
your motivational resources; it has medical
risks; and it can be a gateway drug to other
more harmful substances.
The question of whether it is no more
dangerous than alcohol misses the point.
Both have dangers - medical, psy-
chological and legal.

It is in your best interest to know the risks
before you make a decision about whether or not to use
(or continue using).

Send letters to Dr. Worth at University Center 128,
or phone them in at 463-8592.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 14, 1992

Trippin’ in Rockbridge II

Driving tour leads to mountainside park at Lake Robertson

 

This marks the
final feature high-
lighting selections

Virginia 251 from Ide
Lexington to Lake

Robertson: 11.5
miles.
This tour will 4

take you to Lake
Robertson via Vir-
ginia 251.

The park is open

 

from driving tours House

found in Country Mountain Brushy
Roads by Katherine toes Hill
Tennery and Shirley FH

Scott.

» Lake Robertson

670

MURAT

 

 
  

670
aL Creck

Creek, where a sign
points the way to
Lake Robertson.
This is state
Route 770. Continue
on for one more
mile, and there is the
park’s entrance.
This 581-acre
mountainside park
provides excellent
recreational facili-
ties: a 53-site camp-
ground; picnic areas;
12 miles of wood-
land hiking trails; a
31-acre boating and
fishing lake; play-
grounds, a tennis

 

 

from April 1 through
October 31 and on |
occasional winter |
Sundays.

From Lexing- |
ton take U.S. 11

ginia 251.

After one mile, Thorn Hill is vis-
ible on the hilltop to your right.

This red-brick Greek Revival-
style mansion was built around 1792.

After a deep curve to the right and
a stretch up a hill, Airport Acres is
found.

The valley on the rightis said to be
one of the prettiest views in the county.

Continuing on to Murat, Virginia
251 makes a sharp turn to the right.

A sign on the corner points to
Lake Robertson.

After crossing a bridge, turn left
to continue on Virginia 251. A few
hundred yards brings you to Clemmer’s
Store, on the left, where food and gas
are available.

Stay on Virginia 251 as it makes a
sharp turn to the right. Continue on for
about another two miles, and on the

 

 

 

HARRIS TEETER MEANS
LOW PRICES!

 
 
   
   
 

Bone-in Beef
Chuck Roast

TEM 2 olay

AS
a)

 

 

Tyson-
Boneless

Chic

 

Limit 3 Pkgs.

TS tee 14 IA

With Additional

Rockbridge County Facts

| @ The county was established in 1777.
@ The total county population in 1987 was 31,000 people.
l @ The county is made up of 607 square miles, 40 percent

left is Hostetter’s Store.

This is the last chance to buy pic-
nic supplies (machine-dispensed
snacks and soft drinks may be the only
food available at Lake Robertson).

Collier’s Presbyterian Church is
further along on the left.

Drive up the lane that skirts the
hillside cemetery behind the church.
Brushy Mountain, Short Hill, House
Mountain andthe Alleghenies are only
part of the impressive overview of
regional geography visible from the
cemetery.

The cemeteryhas been in use since
1856. Tombstones bear the names of
families that were among the area's
early settlers.

Back on Virginia 251, continue
about two-tenths of a mile and turn left
onto the concrete bridge over Collier’s

1 court, a swimming
| pool, and a softball
| field.

| The lake was

| created by damming

l a system of springs

(Main Street) south farmland. and streams, part of
to the traffic light at_ | @ Lexington, the county seat, was incorporated in 1778, | the headwaters of :
the edge of town. | named after Lexington, Mass., where the first battle of the | Collier's Creek.

You'll see a | Revolution was fought two years earlier. | Its steep, °
signdirecting youto | @ The county was named after the national landmark Natu- | rocky contours and |
Lake Robertson; | ral Bridge. icy springs preclude
turn right on to Vir- | From ‘*A Reference Guide to Lexington” | swimming.

At its deepest end, ‘
about 35 feet down, lie the buildings of «’
a drowned farm.

Opened in 1973, the park isowned |
by the State Game Commission and .
operated by Rockbridge County.
The park’s name honors Lexington’s °
A. Willis Robertson (1887-1971).

He was for many terms a U.S.
Congressman and then Senator, an ar- |
dent outdoorsman and conservationist |
and father of evangelist Pat Robertson.

You can return to Lexington by
retracing the route.

For achallenging extension to this
tour, turn right as you leave the park
for ascenic four-mile journey up North
Mountain (3,400 feet).

The road is not dauntingly steep,
but it is gravel and narrow, and you
will be climbing 1,500 feet. Don't make
this drive in wet weather.

 

  

*REDUCED®
yA

yAty:

 

HT Regular Or Fat Free
Ice Cream

 

SELECTED
VARIETIES

 

 

Shasta
Soft Drinks

12 Oz.
Cans

    

 

 

 

   
 
  
 
  

! Gourmet Jam

Coupon Value

 

 

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. 1
Limit One Coupon Per Purchase.
Offer Expires May 19, 1992.

75¢

Poo

PRESIDENT’S CHOICE COUPON SALE!

aap slo pat ate a
1 M ernie oot

I SAVE 75¢
| When You Purchase One 13 Oz. ||
Jar Of President’s Choice

 

    
  
     

VALUABLE COUPON

SAVE $1.50

When You Purchase One
Package Of President’s Choice

round Beef Patties
This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced.
Limit One Coupon Per Purchase.
Offer Expires May 19, 1992.

Coupon Value

a Teo

 
 
 

2 Lb.

1.50

sete cin cine cena si lp say etnies

   

 

  
  
   
  
 
  

  
  
 
  
 

Purchase ! |
i SAVE 50¢ iI SAVE $1.00 I
j When You Purchase One 64 Oz. || When You Purchase One 14 - 14.1

Carton President's Choice Oz. Bag Of The Following
; Premium Orange Juice il President's Choice Cookies: l
i The Cougon May Net Be Reproduced Decadent, Decadent 2, neepnerry |
Ste nane ei 11 ,lemptation, Butter First Oatmeal, |
is May »
j Coupon Value ae 506 1 | —. ban ve hl Be Saeieed sal
. Limit One Coupon Per Purchase
j PURE i i Offer Expires May 19, 1992
NG! eee

I Coupon Value
GROCERY

$1.00

RAISINS
_~

VALUABLE COUPON VALUABLE COUPON

 

 

Prices Effective Through May 19, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective one eae. May 19, 1992. In Lexington Store On
0

ly.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps,

one Sold

 

 

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 14, 1992

W&LIFE ne

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
        
        
 
  
   
   

 

= =
APO plans God asks man to write Bible Colonnade Crossword
= a
' .
Proj ect at Student's play takes place in The Garden of Sweden
ACROSS ee ee 2.7 a. 10 Ji [i2 [13
1C se
; re 6 Fragrant wood |" 1s 16
OSpI a By JENNIFER LATHAM es 10 Ridge on a 7 8 19
Phi Staff Reporter nes ‘ —_— - |
Le 4 1 22 23
15 Baton —
BYN KE Senior Mason Pettit could hardly 16 A flower 24 25
Y NICOLE KEELER wait to hear the reading of The Garden 17 Sluggish
Phi Staff Reponer 3 ; 18 Excessive 26 je? jas 29° [30 31 sz 133
. of Sweden, an original comedy by jun- 19 Ripening factor
This spring, Alpha Phi ior Rich Cassone, especially since 20 Candies ” a5 36
Omega’s big project will be to English Professor George Ray would ees 7 38 39
help Stonewall Jackson Memo- be portraying Satan. os yea pclade 30 a1 4
rial Hospital’s swamped clerical In Cassone’s story, dubbed a 26 Cleanness :
department. "spoof of cliché plays" by director clo C Ms
APO is Washington and Pettit, God contracts a man to write the 35 Fabric pattern “ a7
Lee's co-ed service fraternity. Bible through the angel Gabriel. 36 Physicians’ org. FEM Teo aT lie ro a are
Each pledge class must organize The experiences of God's chosen eh tain
and carry out a winter or spring man, Monty Levine, are portrayed by 38 Catch on . e Es e
term service project forthecom- | senior Andrew Keller’s performance. 39 Level 1 62 3
munity. "Monty wants something to hap- " pe i : 64 65 66
Freshman Josh Cook, pen in his life, but doesn't know what," 41 Connery and
APO’s pledge class president, has junior Erin Walsh said. ae hie hee 05/14/92
volunteered at Stonewall Jack- Walsh plays Ethel Levine, Keller's aponnes Last Week's Answers
son Memorial Hospital whenever wife. 43 Firebug 6 Very long time
he could during the year. Ethel is crazy and very extreme a6 Fancy Give period
te ; : 46 John — P 7 Cloth
It was Cook’s idea to volun- Walsh said. 47 Fix fraudulently 8 Malarial fever
teer the services of the service "One minute she's very loving, 48 Flowering shrub _9 Landed a fish
fraternity. ine and then it's 'I hate you, goddamit,' " 7 ee “ . ™
“We'll be helping with the Walsh said. 57 Rara — 11 Latvian city
filing and other office duties,” he According to her, Satan is por- 58 Perch 12 Rudimentary:
id : ; 60 Horse's gait abbr.
Said, ; trayed as a slithery coward. 61 Tins 13 Old Phoenician
The tentative date for the "He's like a little boy caught with e Rub out ‘ city
project to begin is May 23. his hand in the cookie jar," Walsh 63 Ireland 1 Deserve
Se a: ey Ban
erything is set and that “we’re Walsh said that Ray's acting abili- 65 Ventured 27 Say
almost there.” ties are fantastic. 66 Certain tide s aware
__ He remains in close contact "He [Ray} was so wonderful to | ah a he DOWN 30 Corn spikes 05/14/92
with Jane Litzenburg, director of work with," Walsh said. "He's very : 1 Throw — 31 Claw
volunteer services al the hospi- | aware of ating." inne eee
tal. Walsh last worked with Cassone 3.Onthe summit 35 Legumes 45 Scraped waterfront
| on Junior Robyn McCord, sophomore Andrew Campbell and English Professor ra :
Cook helps coordinate and Pettit in the Lenfest production of G I : Bard of 38 Like idle people 48 Speed contest 55 Nick Charles
schedules and will outline the St. Joan of the Stockyards. eins , oe —_ . 5 Like hard a1 Would-be 50 gia 56 hetion
fraternity’s duties once the The Garden of Sweden was writ- and Saxophone Music, among other and Lenfest Center Technical Director rots soeeme 7 eee on Cae. torters
project begins. ten as an "independent project in col- _ projects. Shawn Evans as the angel Gabriel.
He said although the Stone- laboration with drama professor Tho- Their latest display of writing and Alumnus Tom Oxendine portrays
wall Jackson Projectis this spring mas Ziegler,” said Cassone. directing skills is"aclassact,"Cassone God, senior Ax Norman reads stage
term s big service event for APO, A nine-member cast, consisting said. directions, senior Devon McAllister Used Kenmore Party Pics Photographer
it is not their only one. ' mainly of Washington and Lee stu- Together the two have led cast _ plays Sarah, and junior Robyn McCord Washer & Dryer Wanted
___“Since we are working with dents, will perform in the reading on members in rehearsal for approxi- portrays Jazz. Sai No Experience Necessary
limited time, there will be fewer May 16. mately two and a half weeks. In reference to his direction of Good Condition. Transportation Desired
service projects than during other "It’s a multifaceted story, with "This marks the fifth time Rich The Garden of Sweden, Pettit said, $200 - Negotiable. 1-800
terms,” he said. good characters and believable, funny and I will have collaborated in the "It’s one of the more vital tasks in 235-5101 ;
a ae = hopes —— a said. theater, and at this point I can say that becoming a better actor by vicariously i
will feel free to contact the group The Garden of Sweden is one of _ he and I truly connect," Pettit said. "I_ making acting decisions."
bo any ideas they have for pos- several endeavors credited to Cassone _ think that’s kind of rare." The reading will be held on Satur- me = mere weeks left t 4
sible service projects. and Pettit. Other cast members include day, May 16 at 8 p.m. at the Lenfest to t ig spri term par
Both alsocontributedto True West sophomore Andrew Campbell as Abe, Center in the Johnston Theater. J P "8 P y- i
;

Rt. 5, Box 379 BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

msi

KappogaWo ee

SPRING SALE

All Winter Merchandise — 12 Off

“Spring Fashions Are In”

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ®Perfumes
Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

   

 

 

 

1-800-768-LEHI

 

 

 

© Redken. ® Paul Mitchel
vs

Hairstylist —

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Valley TrueValu.

 
    
 
  

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

  

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

 
   
      

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00 Sun. 1:00-5:00

703/463-2022
E, Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
With Student I.D. Lexington, VA 24450

Anyone Interested In Purchasing
AVCR Copy of the
Lip Synch Contest

($8.00)
Should Contact

Jerry Darrell at Evans Dining Hall.

All Proceeds Go To ee oe
Multiple Sclerosis Students Against Multiple Soler

    
   
   
   
     

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 
    

 

  

 
 
  
  
  
  
  

    
    
  
      

 
 

W&L Electronics Sale
25% Off

Clocks, Calculators, Audio Equipment, etc.

W&L Bookstore

Good Luck to Sisters Career Opportunity een it oo
Heather Aussiker Local Radio Station

& WREL AM & FM_| | sustiotronics

We Seil the Best Seats in the House

Linda Straton DENON SONY ES

ADCOM ALPINE

Has A Entry Level MONSTER OPTONICA
ee BOSTON DEFINITIVE
In The Upcoming Play, Sales Position Open M

* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM
* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
“A Funny Thing Happened On The Way ‘To Forum” If you are an interested graduating senior, contact |} |}. istser‘twer caren
Kian Putbrese at 463-2161 or stop by our offices * MASTER CARO / VISA / DISCOVER
located at 312 South Main St. in Lexington, (Adjacent 800) 468-
R th to the Stonewall Jackson Memorial Cemetary). > ee
rom the Also looking for part time Board Operators with Overloshing Yenglowend Otel

Xi Lambda Chapter of Chi Omega experience, a

.

PPLE ELPA E ERLLILSLELESEWSS IL IDSOIAP LL ALLOI OL IPT IOIIALTH NITRA TARA ei etala Sit Encccinintnt tinned

  

  
 

 

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he ebAAAAAEA EEL LEDAEDALA AEE DADE PDA NS

 
 

 

 

 

 

This week’s scores:

None

 

 

 

 

S

Che King-tum Phi

PORTS

 

 

 

Next week’s games:
Men's Tennis - at NCAA Div. III Individual
Championships - Richard Yates

Women's Tennis - at NCAA Div. III Individual
Championships - Marilyn Baker

 

 

 

PAGE 6

  
 

4 wel
= ——

=f

 

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Marilyn Baker uncorks another backhand during practice
this week. Baker is preparing for the Divison Ill individual tournament
beginning this weekend. Baker Is only the second W&L women’s
tennis player to make the tournament her freshman year. The first
was Jean Stroman, '91.

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK

MAY 14, 1992

Baker only second W&L freshman
CAA tennis tourney

to make

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

 

She is having the best spring
season that no one knows about.

Marilyn Baker is a freshman
from Baldwin, N.Y. She’s been play-
ing tennis for six years, a relatively
short time for this sport. She joined
the W&L women’s tennis team this
past fall and started at number three
singles.

She worked hard during the
winter months and took over the
number one spot this spring.

She lost one dual match all year
and finished third at the ODAC tour-
nament. Her overall record stands at
19-3, and this Friday she will join
Jean Stroman as the only two W&L
women’s tennis players to e the
Division III individual tournament as
freshmen.

Baker will travel to Kalamazoo,
Michigan and begin play on Saturday,
May 16. Baker joins senior Richard
Yates as the only two W&L players
to make the postseason tournaments.

Baker’s success has also paid

off for her on the national tennis
scene.

“This is the first time I’ve ever
been a nationally ranked player,’’ said
Baker. She currently stands at 138th
in the nation in the 18 and under divi-
sion. Not bad for only six years on
the job.

Nevertheless, Baker says this
doesn’t mean she’ll put undue pres-
sure on herself to win the Division III
tournament.

‘“‘My goal is to play the best
that I can. If I give one hundred per-
cent I’ll be happy, with whatever
happens.”’

Women’s tennis head coach
Cinda Rankin is optimistic about
Baker’s chances, but says she has
already fulfilled all her expectations.

‘Just the fact that a freshman
makes it meets all expectations. I’d
love to see her win, but it’s not ex-
pected of her.’’

Baker feels the lack of expec-
tations takes some of the pressure off
and makes her feel more excited than
nervous,

“I’m excited not nervous. I

Women’s lax loses five talented seniors

think it’s because it’s the first time
and there are no expectations.”’

No matter how Baker does this
weekend, she’s had a season to re-
member. Rankin attributes Baker’s
success to the adjustments she made
over the winter to college tennis.

‘*She’s improved a lot since last
fall. She lost some early challenge
matches to [Mary] Nabers and
{Genia] Foster. She had to make
adjustments. I don’t think she knew
what to expect from college tennis.
She wasn’t challenged in high school
like she is here.”

Rankin also feels Baker’s dedi-
cation to the sport has been key to
her success. This dedication, she says,
has earned Baker the respect of her
teammates and a leadership role on
the team.

“*She is now a definite leader by
example. She has the respect of her
teammates because they know how
dedicated she is. In fact, the team
voted her the Most Dedicated.’’ Bak-
er received the honor Wednesday
night.

Baker doesn’t shy away from

the role of leader. In fact, she enjoys
the position.

“T think I’m a leader. I like to
help the other girls out with their
games, and I think they like to hear
my advice.’’

Baker gained the respect of
teammates and the number one posi-
tion by playing a solid, all-around
game. But she feels that her two-
fisted backhand and her speed are the
two weapons she relies on most.

Rankin says another strong
quality is Baker’s ability to change
her game during a match.

‘*She has the ability to adapt her
game in the middle of a match. She’s
able to analyze her opponent and
change her game to exploit their
weaknesses.”’

Baker’s going to need all her
skills to be in fine working order this
weekend as she takes on the best
Division III has to offer. But no mat-
ter what the results are, she’s had a
successful first year, and will con-
tinue to have success because she has
a zest for the game. As she put it:

“T love tennis!”’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

 

It was a bitter-sweet ending for the Washington
and Lee women’s lacrosse team.

A little more than two weeks ago, the women
captured their first Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship. In the process, they
shattered the jinx of the Roanoke Maroons.

The game marked the end of an era for the
program, though.

The Generals will lose five top players this
June as: Kimberly Bishop, Jennifer Donaldson,
Whitney Hopkins, Melissa Manko and Julie Vennes
all graduate. They leave a void that head coach
Janine Hathorn feels is going to be hard to fill.

‘“‘They were the first class of so much talent
that they changed the program,”’ said Hathorn.
‘Their dedication level set them apart; and their
leadership is going to be hard to replace.”’

For the five seniors, this last year was the most
successful, with the ultimate highlight being the
win over Roanoke in the ODAC finals.

“It was the highlight of all four years,”’ said
Manko. ‘‘The win made it all worth it.”’

‘After playing for five months, it all paid off,”’
said Bishop. ‘‘We finally did it. It was definitely
the climax.”’

When the five came in four years ago the
program was in its infancy. Hathorn said they

helped the program grow and just got better doing
it.

“‘As a whole, they caught on quickly to the
idea that with a certain amount of concentrated
hard work the program could grow quickly. Over
the years, the program did, and they grew a lot as
players. They’ve come a long way.”’

This year it all came together, and Vennes
believes that’s because the team had the right
combination of players.

‘We had better chemistry this year,”’ she said,
“‘we were more together as a team. A lot of good
freshmen helped us skill wise.’’

Experience also played a major part in the
team’s success.

““Experience,’’ said Donaldson. ‘‘We were
getting better each year, but experience teaches you
more than anything.”’

All five agreed, not surprisingly, that the
winning helped make this year fun.

“‘We had fun this year,’’ said Hopkins. ‘‘we
were winning more, and when you’re winning,
you’re always having a good time.”’

Hathorn said the success came because the girls
improved in all areas since freshman year. She said
each one got better year-to-year.

‘‘Whitney[Hopkins] came in with the best
experience level. She’s a very intense competitor,
and she’s grown in the finer points of the game.

“‘Kim[Bishop] came on strongest right from

 

 

 

University PRINTING CENTER 1st Floor Reid Hall - 463-8448

The Printing Center offers quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job return, and
competitive pricing. We have a Macintosh IIx which can read IBM disks. Scanned
images can be added to your campaign or organizational flyers for that individual
appearance. Need a high resolution output? We offer our Linotronic 200SQ. Our
services cover University and non-profit organizations. Stop by today!

Landscape/Painting
Come to your Printing Center for: Part Time
« Flyers and Posters + Custom Resumes and Letters r
* Copying and Printing * Transparencies | i.
+ Programs + Brochures and Booklets panes nour, Comper
+ Newsletters + Scanning tive pay. Location in Au-

 

 

—EE
POL OPAS

 

 

159 S. MAIN Sr.
463-2886
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

HAIR CUTTING

TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS

BY APPOINTMENT

 

fp eS Be ah Oe i As en a oe oe Oe a ee

11S. Randolph St.

gs
i
i
I
{
I

 

The Beauty Bar

 

 

Grateful Dead
2 From the Vault
$19.95 2 CD Set

Mon Thure.31.8 BicSat 115,

OVPVIVPNM IV’

 
 

 
  
 

eth ini eiiivinataediisliieadiiiaidiniieiaiglll

si ainda aden ail

gusta County. Must have
own transportation.

(804) 296-4543

W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St., Lexington - Below First American Bank

TERM PAPERS

Resumes, Cover Letters & Envelopes
Laser Printing and FAX Service

freshman year. She has grown into a very advanced
lacrosse player.

“‘When I saw Melissa[Manko] and
Julie[Vennes], I knew they were going to be good
players. They had good skills and were very
competitive. they were great role players.

“‘Jen{Donaldson] improved the most. When she
came in she had never played before, and she
stepped right into goal. I have a lot of respect for
her because she stepped into goal.”’

Hathorn said the team might not have
accomplished all it did if not for the consistent play
of these five.

Bishop, who finishes as the Generals all-time
leader in goals (122) and points (156), summed it
up for all five when she said the friendships will be
the toughest part to leave.

“I’ve been together with a great group of girls,
it’s like having 20 big and little sisters. So, leaving
the friendships will be the most depressing thing.”’

Hathorn said she will miss the group’s intensity
and thanked them for their contributions to the

program.

“They have this incredible knack for being fun
to coach. But get them on the field, I wouldn’t
want to play against them. They were all intense
competitors.”

“This was their team. I thank them a lot for
all the things they’ve done for us.’’

FOR RENT:
4 bedroom, 2 baths. 1%
miles Rt. 60 East. July 1,
1992 to June 30, 1993.

463-5383

 

Typed

203 N. Main Street
463-9455

 

 

 

 

 

jar amenu change?

Foods

Taylor & Ellestad

Have a sick friend?
Celebrating a birthday?
Wanting a special dinner?
Studying for exams?
Celebrating Graduation?
Just Plain Hungry?

Store Hours: Tues,-Fri, 11:00-6:00; Sat. 10:00-1:00

631 Waddell St., Lexington, VA 24450 + 703-463-5004
Quality catering for all occasions.

   
  
 

RS

  
  
   
  
   
 

Stonewall Square

 

 

   

 

 

   

  
       
 
   
   
   
  

eo

Ask For Our May 6 “Munsters.
Appreciation Coupon $1500 per month
Sundays - Rent 2 Movies,
Get 1 Free! (99¢ Movies Excluded) Call Chuck Barger
New Movies This Week
Freejack Days: 463-2106
The Commitments Evenings: 463-3907
House Party Il

MasterCard & Visa Accepted

 

File Photo

Julie Vennes is one of the five seniors who helped the Generals
capture their first ODAC title this year. Coach Hathorn credits the five
with making the program such a success over the last three years,
and admits they will be hard to replace.

  
         
        
   
      
     
         
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 

 

Cannondale - TRE}: - Diamond Back - Giant

= J jansport day packs and book bags
Lexington Bike Shop
Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon 463-7969

130 S. Main St.
SHOE FIXERS

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/ Satin Shoes dyed in 1 hr.

 

  

464-6666

 

 

 

 

   

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

"20% Discount on all
non-sale items to students”

 
   
 

(703) 463-1620

11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
VISA, MC, AMEX

   

House For Rent

122 W. Nelson Street
Available for up to

    
    
  

  
 

  
 
  
   
  
  

   
   
  
