Vv. Al
¥}O./5
C2

re MHYVERSITY | BRARY

FE LENIVRRS

1992

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 15

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 23, 1992

Delts dispute suspension, appeal to Wilson

 

By THOMAS EISENHAUER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

due Jan. 27, but Tuesday President Wilson
granted Delt two additional weeks to prepare its

 

Delta Tau Delta
Officials say they
will appeal the chap-
ter’s five-year sus-
pension from Wash-
ington and Lee, dis-
puting the Student
Affairs Committee’s
conclusion that the

harsh for
the crime

chapter systematically destroyed its fraternity

house.

‘* “Systematic destruction’ — that’s a term
the chapter is very upset about,’’ said Delt
President Robert Wilson, who was appointed last
week, ‘‘None of the damage was planned or
premeditated; none of it was officially sanc-

tioned.”’

On Friday, SAC suspended Delt from cam-
pus for five years, pending an appeal, for van-
dalizing its house over a 10-week period. Delt
has until Feb. 10 to appeal to university Presi-
dent John D. Wilson in writing. It was originally

Job search
tougher for
‘91 grads

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi Staff Reporter

Members of the class of '91
aren’t faring as well in the job market
as other recent graduates have, ac-
cording to a new survey from the
Career Development and Placement
Office.

According to a survey conduct-
ed by Rick Heatley, director of
CD&P, 18 percent of the members of
the class of 91 were still ‘‘seeking’’
employment six months after gradua-
tion. That’s twice as many un-
employed graduates as the three pre-
vious classes had six months after
their graduations.

Heatley said he blames the
national economy.

“The bottom really dropped out
between November and January last
year,’’ Heatley said. ‘“There was
significant reduction in recruitment
because of the recession.”’

Heatley said that although last
year was bad, W&L students still had
a higher placement rate than students
at most other colleges.

Success or failure in finding a
job depended on a student’s major,
according to the survey:
¢ 25 percent of English majors were
unemployed six months after gradua-
tion, while only 4 percent of biology
majors were without work.

History, politics, accounting and
business administration majors all had
higher unemployment rates than the
class average.

*100 percent of math and computer
science graduates were either em-
ployed or enrolled in graduate school.

Heatley encouraged students to
search for jobs outside their majors.

“Only 29 percent of the stu-
dents who accepted jobs in the busi-
ness sector were business, accounting
or economics majors,’’ he said.

 

 

ODK inducts 29

 

From the W&L News Office

 

Washington and Lee’s chapter
of Omicron Delta Kappa initiated 29
students during the university’s Foun-
der’s Day Convocation Monday and
observed the 100th birthday of its
only living founder.

Four honorary initiates, 24 un-
dergraduates and five W&L Law
School students were tapped into the
honorary frater-
nity, which
recognizes
leadership in all
areas of campus
life.

ODK was
established at
W&L by Ru-
pert Latture,
aoe te Se
along with 11 other students. Latture,
who resides in High Point, N.C.,
turned 100 years old Saturday.

University Historian Taylor
Sanders delivered a speech on ‘“The
Last Gentlemen: General Lee’s Lega-
cy and the Matter of Moral Thought-
fulness,”’ as part of the service, which
was conducted in Lee Chapel.

The four honorary _ initiates
were: Economics Professor John M.
Gunn Jr., °45; Robert C. Dyer, °35;
Giddy Erwin Dyer and Edward A.
Turville, '36.

 

Brothers call
penalty too

case.

Taylor Cole, ’75, president of the Delt House
Corporation, said SAC’s sentence is too severe
considering the amount of damage the house
sustained.

“Tl thought I had a good case going in Friday
{to the SAC hearing],’’ Cole said, ‘‘and I was
completely shocked at the outcome then, given
the fact that we’re only talking about $500 worth
of damage.”’

According to pictures of the house and
interviews with Cole, Robert Wilson and How-
ison, members of the chapter broke windows,
knocked down walls, removed ceiling tiles,
disassembled lofts and destroyed a brick bar be-
fore moving out on Dec, 22.

“This was a serious violation,’’ Howison
said Friday after the hearing. ‘“This damage was
systematic and not an isolated act of violen-
cé."

But Cole said he estimates fixing the win-

 

DELT continued on page 7»

Phi editors grapple with conflicts of interest

 

By BRIAN Roor
Special to The Ring-tum Phi

to leave the house to member Pat McCabe
Wednesday, Jan. 8, the day before the first

 

Junior Rick Peltz, one of the two edi-
tors of The Ring-tum Phi, edited and added
information to a news story conceming the
suspension of Delta Tau Delta even though
he had taken part in the vandalism himself,

and had resigned from the chapter.

These facts, Peltz said, create, at the
very least, ‘‘the perception of a conflict of

interest.’’

“If I'd known how big the story was
going to get, I definitely would’ve taken a
leave of absence from the paper,’’ Peltz
said. ‘‘If something big happens in the
future as a result of this, that’s what I'll

do.”’

Peltz said he announced his intention

story about the postponement of Delt’s
renovation was published.

That night, Peltz added some informa-
tion to the Delt story, including the fact
that the Interfraternity Council had recom-
mended that the Student Affairs Committee
place Delt on ‘‘critical probation.’’ Peltz
also said, however, that he ‘‘exerted abso-
lutely no influence in the writing or place-
ment’’ of the story.

Several days later, Delt voted to expel
Peltz from the chapter.

McCabe said that among the reasons
for the expulsion were Peltz’s participation
in damaging the house and the chapter’s
belief in his unfair conduct as the Phi
editor.

coors

  
  

 

Brian Root is a former editor of The Ring-

tum Phi.

According to Delt President Rob Wil-

ed it to say.”’

McCabe agreed with this assessment

of the fraternity’s attitude toward Peltz.

“It’s the
opinion of the
chapter that Rick
did everything in
his power to ma-
lign the chapter
and to make our
accusations against
him look weak,”’
McCabe said.

““The house
is very susp-

Peltz icious,’’ Wilson

said. ‘“They can only relate to the fact that
he added information to the story. To them,
that means he was probably controlling the
assignments and the editing, too.”’

 

son, the majority of Delts believe Peltz
‘“‘manipulated the Phi to say what he want-

 

 

 

Above, (from left to right) freshmen Mike MacLane, William Propst, Todd Stanton and Payton Lowrance
rehearse their version of ‘| Want to Sex You Up” for Friday night’s SAMS Lip Sync Contest.

Lip-synchers vie for MTV trip

 

By SUMMER BROWN
Phi Staff Reporter

On Friday, air-guitar bands from around the Wash-
ington and Lee will compete for a trip to Daytona Beach,
Fla., in the 6th annual SAM’S (Students Against Multiple
Sclerosis) Lip-Sync Contest.

The purpose of the contest is to raise money for
Multiple Sclerosis in a recreational way, said Gerald
Darrell, SAM’S advisor and director of W&L Food
Services.

Videos of first- and second-place winners from
Friday’s contest will be sent to MTV to be judged along
with other acts from schools nationwide. MTV will
choose five groups to send to Daytona during MTV’s
Spring Break weekend in March where they will perform
live on MTV and be judged by call in votes.

Two years ago a group from W&L’s Phi Gamma

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Delta won the contest in Daytona.

‘“‘We’ve been recruiting heavily,’’ said stage manag-
er Michael Patrick. ‘‘The goal is to get acts from different

organizations around campus.’’

Several groups have already signed up, Patrick
explained, including acts from the registrar’s office, the
international club and groups of pledges from Sigma Phi

Epsilon and Beta Theta Pi.

“‘T got the idea [to hold a contest] while visiting
other campuses,’’ Darrell said. ‘‘We hope a lot of people
will come out because the focus of the event is to raise
This year’s goal is to raise $2000

money for MS.”’
dollars, he said.

The contest, to be held in the pavilion, will be
judged by faculty members. The contest will start at about
9:30, after a speech by Margaret Thatcher at VMI conclu-
des. A $3 admission charge will go to MS.

About 20 groups have registered, Patrick said.

 

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Dean of Students David Howison
asked fraternity presidents and pledge
educators to sign an agreement deter-
ring members from hazing pledges.

In signing the contract, fraternity
officers acknowledge that if a pledge
is seriously injured in a hazing inci-
dent, the chapter will immediately be
considered for suspension by the
Student Affairs Committee.

Howison said the ‘‘anti-hazing
agreement’ requires that presidents
and educators ‘‘will attempt to
prohibit’’ systematic physical hazing
and forced drinking of alcohol.

The contract, discussed at Tues-
day’s Interfraternity Council meeting,
has not yet been signed, said Sam
Rock, junior justice and IFC presi-
dent-elect.

‘‘None [of the fraternities] have
signed it, yet,’’ Rock said. ‘‘The IFC
is still discussing the agreement with
Dean Howison.”’

The agreement also reminds the
fraternities that hazing is illegal in
Virginia and is prohibited by both the
university and the national organi-
zation of every Greek organization on
campus.

Howison said that if a serious
injury did result from a hazing inci-
dent, SAC would first determine whe-
ther or not physical or alcoholic haz-
ing was common in the fraternity.

He said that if SAC found that
such hazing was not discouraged by
the fraternity, the chapter could be
suspended or expelled.

The agreement is a way to in-
volve chapter officers in hazing pre-
vention. ‘‘It is up to students to make
this work,”’ he said.

Howison said the agreement is
the result not of a specific incident,
but of discussions with fraternity
members. He said hazing emerged as

EDITORS continued on page 7>

Howison wants
‘no-haze’ pact

one of the major problems facing
fraternities in talks with senior men
last spring.

But some fraternity officers said
such a contract is not necessary.

“It’s basically personal protec-
tion for the university,” Sigma Alpha
Epsilon President Gene Pride said.
“It’s so they can give us an ‘I told
you so’ if something happens.”’

IFC elects
Rock new
president

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

Kappa Sigma junior Sam Rock
was elected the next Interfraternity
Council president Tuesday night.

Rock defeated Sigma Nu Presi-
dent Heath Dixon and will take office
at the start of spring term.

Rock said one of his priorities
in the next year will be to continue
fall Rush.

“*Winter Rush would be finan-
cially disastrous”’ for the fraternities,
Rock said. ‘Right now there are no
other alternatives for the fresnman’’
men,

Other posts filled last night are:
«Vice President — Tom Washmon, a
Kappa Alpha junior;

*Secretary — Chris Boggs, a Phi Kap-
pa Sigma junior;

*Treasurer — Jim Eddings, a Phi Del-
ta Theta junior;

*Senior Justice — Sebastian Cross, a
Beta Theta Pi junior;

«Junior Justice — Phi Kappa Psi soph-
omore Curt Smith and Phi Gamma
Delta sophomore Larry Brown.

 

 

 

The students inducted Monday
were:
THIRD-YEAR LAW
Scott A. Butler
Bonnie L. Hobbs
Elizabeth L. Ewert

 

Severn S. Miller
Lori A. Phelps

By JOSHUA MANNING
Phi Staff Reporter

 

SENIORS
Wangdali Bacdayan
Armando F, Benincasa
Sarah E. Briggs
John T, Cox
E. Whitney Hopkins
William G. Jones
Jennifer E. Kacmar
Marjolane Merryweather
Heather M. Midkiff
Michael G., Patrick
Laura A. Pilachowski
E, Lauren Rowland
Roger P. Sullivan
Katherine A. Walther
Morgan E. Warner
Robert D. Weisgerber
E. Dale Wyatt
JUNIORS
John §. Darden
J. Heath Dixon
William N. Hannah
B. Robyn McCord
Richard J, Peltz
Amy E. Roberson
Susan H. Wootton

 

 

Sessoms

With the university’s $127 million Capital
Campaign nearly ready for its February kick-off at
Mount Vernon,
three years of nationwide, high-visibility fundraising.

The Capital Campaign, an effort to raise the
money needed to expand the university’s endowment
and complete several well-known projects like the
Lenfest Center, Fraternity Renaissance and the pro-
posed student center, is the largest fundraising effort in
Washington and Lee history. Begun in July 1990, the

plans are well underway for the next

university hopes to
break the campaign’s
goal by June 1995.

The University
Development Office has
divided the Capital
Campaign into several
phases, In the nearly-
completed Leadership
Phase, big-money contri-
butors and volunteers
were asked to set an
example for others. In

February, the campaign will begin a Major Gifts phase,
taking the campaign on the road to each of the 84
alumni chapters across the country,

Once all the chapter campaigns have been com

Raising money on the road

pleted, the Capital Campaign will conclude with a
Victory Phase beginning Sept. 1994 to solicit money
from alumni and friends not yet contacted during the
heart of the campaign.

While $54 million already has been raised in
leadership gifts, Richard Sessoms, one of the cam-
paign’s organizers, hopes at least to match that number
through the chapter campaigns. By the beginning of the
Victory Phase, Sessoms estimates that only $10-15
million will be needed to break the $127 million goal.

“The goal is totally realistic,’’ Sessoms said.
“*We have a constituency that loves this university and
understands its role. Each generation is obligated to
educate the next.”’

Raising the money is a volunteer-driven effort,
said Lex McMillan III, director of university develop-
ment.

The campaign will be run nationally through a
central committee composed of the University Develop-
ment staff and members of the Board of Trustees. This
committee will be chaired by Trustee H.F, ‘‘Gerry’’
Lenfest, ’53,

‘Gerry was the obvious choice because of his
leadership example,’’ Sessoms said. ‘‘He made the lead

gift to name the Lenfest Center, and he is a man with

great love for this university. He is not merely a

figurehead, he is the true leader of the campaign.’’
Sessoms, who served as director of alumni

~ CAMPAIGN continued on page 7»

 

ON THE
SHOULDERS
_OF GIANTS

  

THE CAMPAIGN FOR

Washington and Lee

 

 
f 7

» “OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1992

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

Conflicts hurt all
our interests

We live on a small campus, attending a small school.
Although most of us would not trade our Washington and
Lee experiences for anything, the very situation that makes
our school so wonderful can create a journalist’s nightmare.
Some members of our staff are living that nightmare right
now.

Reporting the happenings of a small school forces us
weekly to report on our friends and classmates. While we
strive to provide objectivity, accuracy and balance in the
stories we write, we also must combat our feelings for the
subjects of these same stories. And it isn’t always easy.

Our staff includes members of many of W&L’s
fraternities and sororities, as well as athletes, members of
our student government and other special interest groups.
Simply put, there’s just a great deal of overlap.

Our involvement in the newspaper, however, represents a
commitment we have made to the W&L community — to
be a trustworthy and timely source of knowledge concerning
our campus’s latest developments. Often this commitment
has been tested by the sensitivity of issues that have arisen;
sexual assaults, the possible colonization of an historically
black fraternity and now the suspension of one of the oldest
established fraternities on our campus.

To cast a blind eye on such issues and avoid the
controversy that might result from delving into them, or to
down-play an event’s importance because of the association
one or a few of the members of our staff may have with it
would be cowardly. And then you, our readers, would not
be able to respect our publication.

Recent developments have again landed us in a tight
situation. Initially, we underestimated the scope of the issues
involved as they unfolded. Also, we were unsure of how to
handle them. In the end, both our chief editors decided to
step back for time to better preserve the staff’s objectivity.

While we might have erred in judgement, we did not do
so with malicious intent. Thankfully, life goes on.

 

Hazing contract is
simply to scare

Yet again the Dean of Students has placed another
restriction on W&L’s fraternities, but finally one that the
fraternities should be able to accept.

While we recognize that pledge activities build pledge
unity, there is really no reason for fraternities to seriously
injure them. If your pledge education program includes such
extreme forms of training, may we humbly recommend that
you change it?

But Dean Howison also deserves an award for inane
contracting in this affair. It seems a tad ridiculous that you
have to tell the fraternities not to kill or maim their pledges.
We hardly think that is an intention of any pledge program.
Besides, we do not know of any fraternity on campus whose
nationals have not already outlawed such serious forms of
hazing. The contract does not give SAC any additional
powers, nor does it bind the fraternities to any new
standards. Therefore, this is simply a blatant scare tactic
against the entire Greek system.

Quote of the week

1 am not the editor of a newspaper and shall always do right
and be good, so that God will not make me one.
— Mark Twain, and we’ll all take it under advisement.

 

 

 

 

 

L6yiNGTON ACER i) THE MoNTHS To Come,

WHO wit Be THE ENCORE for Nmmy ana maccie 7

(pee
oie b|
A J

wy
AB /

SIMMY, CARTER

PromNeNST POLITIMANS Witt RE SPEAKING {AJ

+
gre

/

Markeneer THATHES

THE

 

Do ws bare TO Desam 2

 

Mmow™

 

Palms, Tetris plan to conquer our world —

Considering recent conspiracy theories, watch out for strange behavior here in Lex

 

LET IT RIDE

By Chris Swann

 

There is a barbaric ritual pervading this
campus. Its effects are as horrific as the fact that 90
percent of the student body participates in this
bizarre act. It involves several chemical com-
pounds, bodily harm and a toilet. I’m talking about
the Palms.

What? That place with the dying palm fronds
in the comers? The pleasant smell of Lysol mixed
with beer and Alabama Slammas? The funny
machine with cheesy videos and a microphone
every Thursday night? Yeah, that place. That... bar.
Norm Peterson would run (if that’s possible) from
the hideous activities that take place in that estab-
lishment.

On your birthday, you expect a few simple
things: a cake or sugary substitute, a kiss from your
boy/girlfriend (maybe I’d say more, but it would be
rude... and I’d probably get fired) and a check from
your grandmother. You do not expect to have your
friends gather around you like a pack of crazed

Alumni deserve
Old George, too

To the Editor:

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi

Pamela Kelley
Cathy Lopiccolo
Thomas Eisenhauer
Joshua Manning
Jay Plotkin
Francesca Kefalas
Craig Burke

Leigh Allen

Tim Molloy

B.J. Gamboa

Acting Editor
News Editor

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

So I hear Old George is held up in traffic,
or as the Phi might refer to it, political traffic.
Last week, the Phi reported that Old George
would be ready by Mock Convention, but his
return would likely be delayed until Alumni
Weekend. Your editorial stated: ‘‘But that implies
Old George is there for the alums, and he is not.
Old George represents Washington and Lee. He
is tradition.’’ Aren’t the alums a part of Washing-
ton and Lee tradition? He was there for them, and
they should be there for him. The alums should
have as much of an opportunity to participate in
the unveiling celebration as the present students.

This isn’t just a celebration to ‘‘generate
some hype.’’ Old George has been a part of the
school for 150 years and everyone associated
with Washington and Lee ought to be able to
celebrate his long-awaited return, even if it means
that the students must wait another two months.
Besides, he was originally supposed to be back
last spring!

Sincerely,
Keith E. Grant, 94

World War did not

stop FD, football

To the Editor:

As a member of the Washington Society
and class agent for the Class of 1943, I am sent
copies of The Ring-tum Phi from time to time.
The issue of January 9, which I received yester-

day, caused mixed reactions.

I commend Mr. Kelley for his efforts to
capture the feelings on the campus after Pearl

Harbor.

Football did continue in the fall of 1942,
my senior year. Although I was born in Martins-
burg, I had never been to the state capitol of
West Virginia in Charleston until the fall of 1942
when I went there to see the annual game be-

tween W&L and West Virginia University.

I recall attending a night club where there
was sawdust on the floor the night before the
game. | was not in very good shape on the day of

cannibals, forcing various liquid concoctions down
your throat until the room begins to spin like a
roulette wheel and you place your bets for living
until tomorrow at 60-1.

And let’s look at the diverse ‘‘drinks’’ avail-
able at this den of Satan: Mind Eraser, Bloody
Mary, Gorilla Fart. Need I go on? This looks about
as much fun as a vasectomy, minus the anesthesia.

I have a proposal. We must rise in force
against this vile business. We shall band together
and burn the Palms in its own alcoholic juices. We
WILL overcome...

..Anybody own a Tetris machine? The elec-
tronic mechanism of demonic possession? I got a
computer for Christmas with Tetris on it — for free.
Sort of eerie, isn’t it? Like someone’s trying to get
everybody to play? Not Nintendo — they just have
a marketing license, and anyway, the people that
created Mario Bros. can’t be anything bad, except
maybe habitual drug users (a game where you eat
a mushroom and get bigger; eat a flower and be
able to fly? Gimme a break...) No, Tetris was
created by a Russian. And they say communism is

 

    

the game but was offered the opportunity to serve
as a spotter for the radio broadcast of the game.
West Virginia won, but I’m not sure of the score.

Also, they did continue to have dances at
W&L, although they had fewer big names. I
clearly remember the 1943 Fancy Dress Ball. The
theme was ‘‘Military Heroes,’’ appropriate for the
war...

I was editor of the 1943 Calyx, and I clearly
remember that the Army School for Special
Services arrived on the campus on Dec. 7, 1942,
one year after Pearl Harbor.

My class is busy planning a major gift to
W&L on the occasion of our 50th anniversary
reunion in May 1993. It was a pleasure for me to
read that Mr. Kelley did include in his article a
paragraph about the death of my classmate Herby
Smith. We are planning our gift as a memorial to
the 19 members of our class who gave their lives
in World War II.

Sincerely,
Albert D, Darby Jr.

SCC member
bashes editorial

To the Editor:

I am writing in regard to the January 9
editorial ‘‘No justice in judicial hearings’’ in The
Ring-tum Phi. Once again the Phi has acted like
an insecure little child lashing out at something it
doesn’t understand. Though I can not speak for
the IFC, I have been a member of the Student
Conduct Committee for almost two years, and |
am proud of the work we have done. In your
editorial you said that the SCC punishes ‘‘possi-
bly abusive and certainly behavior that warrants
community attention.’’ The assumption that the
student body needs to know all the processes of
the SCC is idiotic. No one ‘‘needs’’ to know
about freshman dorm violations. As for exposing
more serious cases, the SCC does not believe that
humiliation should be part of the punishment. The

members of the SCC do not need an audience to
coerce their decision-making process. There is
enough pressure in punishing one’s peers without
the entire school looking over your shoulder, No
one would be helped by open trials or public
hearings. The obvious motive behind this claim

dead. Everyone who plays this game becomes
fixated on the little blocks for hours. I have a
friend who spent her entire summer as a recep-
tionist playing Tetris all the time. I know people

 

Jimmy Buffet wrote in Tales from
Margaritaville that all that
Japanese stuff we buy will
detonate at midnight, Dec. 31,
1999, thus wiping us out.

who would skip class for that one last block they
need to wipe out four whole lines (called a ‘‘Tet-
ris,’’ for the uninitiated). I walk the Colonnade and
try to fit blocks in-between the spaces between
buildings... a giant video-game nightmare. Every-
one in America owns or plays this game.

Jimmy Buffet wrote in Tales from Margarita-
ville that all the Japanese stuff we buy will deto-
nate at midnight Dec. 31, 1999, thus wiping out the
Westem world.

How many of you own Tetris? Think about
ha

 

comes from The Ring-tum Phi’s yearn to drag a
student’s name through its front pages. The SCC
is definitely not interested in supporting the Phi’s
tabloid-like reporting.

The Phi even had the gall to claim that the
SCC ‘‘has the ability to abuse the power it has
been granted by the student body.’’ The SCC
goes through each case with detail and decides
punishments with a majority vote. In the editorial,
the Phi bases its arguments on the Bill of Rights
but seemed to overlook the 15th amendment
which allows everyone the right to vote. All of
the members of the SCC are elected by the
students. Hopefully they are elected because the
students have trust in them. If one thinks his class
officers are abusing their power, they are free to
discuss the matter with the officers or vote for
someone else at the next election. The SCC does
not claim that they are perfect, but we do our
jobs to the best of our abilities.

The Ring-tum Phi only wants open trials so
it can fill its headlines with student violators. The
charges against the Student Conduct Committee
were uncalled for. It is a shame that the Phi
continues to write about things they know noth-
ing about. I am sure any member of the SCC will
gladly try to correct the Phi’s ignorance. I hope
in the future The Ring-tum Phi will actually think
before writing.

Sincerely,
Bill Chappell, ’94
Member of the Student Conduct Committee

Stereotype hurts
victim’s message

To the Editor:

The My View entitled ‘‘Victim Recounts
Rape”’ in last week’s Phi raises a cruel stereotype
that we find offensive. The alleged victim directly
implies that because she was not “road cheese”’
she suffered more than if she had been a student
at a nearby women’s college. This attitude is
biased and ignorant. By insulting ladies who have
been respected members of W&L’s community
for many years, the author undermines the true
issue. Rape is serious regardless of where the
victim attends school.

Sincerely,
Billy Guice, Ben Brown and Justin Winslow

 

+
The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1992

 

New colony looks to future

 

By JENNIFER MAYO
Phi Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee’s 1992
Panhellenic Rush may be officially
over, but the newest sorority that it
brought to campus is just getting
started.

Last Thursday Pi Beta Phi
pledged 72 women, making it the
fourth sorority to colonize at W&L in
the last three years. PHC President
Dale Wyatt said Chi Omega, Kappa
Alpha Theta and Kappa Kappa Gam-
ma each gained 20 new members.

‘‘We tried so hard to make this
extension successful, and it has all
paid off, finally, Wyatt said.

Pi Phi nationals and consul-
tants said they are proud of their
numbers.

“This rush far exceeded our
expectations,” said Kelle Caldwell, a
Pi Beta Phi graduate consultant for
the new colony. ‘‘It makes every-
thing seem more real. Now we are
here to stay.’’

Caldwell is one of two gradu-
ate consultants living in Lexington to
aid and educate the colony during its
pledgeship. She and Denise Reed are
running weekly pledge meetings.

“We are here to guide the

Students
still seek
sorority

By ALISHA M. JOHNSON
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

 

Contrary to popular belief, stu-
dents interested in establishing a his-
torically black sorority at W&L have
not given up on their efforts.

Junior Rita Poindexter, who is
also president of the Minority Stu-
dents Association, said that the wom-
en interested in joining Delta Sigma
Theta, are ‘‘continually exploring all
possible opportunities.

“The students involved are just
as dedicated as ever, but due to the
amount of time involved... interests in
the group have diversified,’’ Poin-
dexter said.

According to senior Karen Pope,
many of the girls interested in the
colonization of the historically black
sorority, have graduated or will be
graduating this year. Students are now
considering another sorority, Alpha
Kappa Alpha, as well as Delta.

Delta Policy Specialist Barbara
Faine said students unable to pledge
at W&L have two options. Delta,
whose national office is Washington,
D.C.,, holds a regional initiation every
other year, and larger cities have a
city-wide undergraduate chapter.

But Pope said the women ‘‘have
not given up and will not give up’’
until a historically black sorority is
established at W&L, and Poindexter
agreed.

“‘We have experienced minor
setbacks but there will be a historical-
ly black greek-letter sorority on cam-
pus in the near future,’’ Poindexter
said. ‘The group is just as dedicated
to seeing a sorority here. We’re on
the onset of a movement.”’

   

 
  

  

Marcy Brown, ’92, Beaverton,
Ore. — ‘‘I think anyone that
willfully destroys their house
deserves to be kicked off for
more than five years. And
frankly, I don’t care.”’

 

colony, and Pi Phi will not remove
consultants from Lexington until the
chapter is well established and strong
enough to stand on its own,’’ Reed
said.

The two women said that
W&L’s colony will have a consultant
living in Lexington for at least two
years. Reed will be living in Woods
Creek until March, and Caldwell will
stay until the end of the academic
year.

Both of them agreed that the
job is exciting and said they are not
discouraged by the diversity among
the 72 women.

“It would be boring if they
were all alike,’’ Caldwell said. ‘‘We
love the diversity because it gives the
group depth.”’

Members of the colony also
expressed equal optimism for its suc-
cess.

“‘There is no problem with
unity,”” junior pledge Meredith Cook
said Wednesday. ‘‘Right now we are
getting to know each other, and every
day the optimism and enthusiasm
seems to grow.”’

Cook said that Pi Phi was
attractive to her during rush because
there is more potential for leadership.

In two weeks, the group will

 

elect officers to run the meetings, and
they are already planning their instal-
lation in late April.

Wyatt said PHC couldn’t be
happier about the fourth sorority.

“‘The extension is just what
we all needed, because now our so-
rorities will not grow to inordinate
sizes,’’ Wyatt said.

“‘Next year we will all be
getting the same number of pledges,
and in several years we might want to
extend again,’’ Wyatt said. ‘‘But let’s
not think about that just yet.’’

 

Inside edge

 

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 

Generals’ 71-58 win.

 

interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

   
   
   

Sophomore Robert Miggins gets free inside for a shot against
Eastern Mennonite Tuesday night at the Warner Center. W&L
used its inside strength to outrebound the Royals 41-28 in the

 

 

NEWS -

Page 3

 

Students to
spend spring
in Russia

By ERIKA BOLSTAD
Phi Staff Reporter

Ten Washington and Lee students
will spend this spring term at Herzen
University in St. Petersburg, Russia.

The trip to St. Petersburg includes
day trips to famous sites such as The
Hermitage, St. Isaac’s Cathedral and the
palace of Catherine the Great, according
to a press release from W&L Assistant
Professor of Russian Zhana Dolgopolova.

On overnight trips, students may
visit Moscow, Pskov and Novgorod.

. Led by
Dolgopolova,
W&L _ students
will spend six
hours a day in
intensive Russian
studies. In addi-
tion to studying
the Russian lan-
guage, students
will participate in
seminars on Rus-
sian literature and culture.

One of the most important aspects
of the trip is the cultural experience
gained by the students, Dolgopolova said.
Student grades from the trip will be based
on language skills as well as the approach
made toward experiencing Russian cul-
ture,

W&L students will be housed in
dormitories on the Herzen University
campus. Dolgopolova said the accom-
modations are nothing like dormitories in
the United States.

For example, if the hot water isn’t
working, the students might have to visit
the public baths to get a shower or do
without one altogether, said sophomore
Alex Ruskell, who is participating in the
trip.

The food in Russia is just as unpre-
dictable, but cheap, Dolgopolova said.
Cafeteria dinners cost one ruble and res-
taurant dinners five, both less than a
dollar.

Dolgopolova warned students with
picky eating habits to be prepared.

“If cafeteria food should not please
may be bought with dollars elsewhere, or
you might bring along a peanut butter
jar,” Dolgopolova said.

“‘T guess it’s about a nickel to eat in
the Russian D-Hall, though God only
knows what you'll be eating,”’ Ruskell
said

 

  

Ruskell

Students participating in the pro-
gram must all have had at least one year
of Russian, since classes at Herzen Uni-
versity are all taught in Russian.

Southern Sem
pres. to retire

FROM STAFF REPORTS

 

 

Joyce O. Davis, president of |
Southem Seminary College an-
nounced Monday she will retire in
June, ending 10 years in office.

Davis, 57, said she was proud of
what she has accomplished, but that
the college will benefit from new
energy going into the 21st century.

Davis said her husband, James
Davis, will retire from Virginia Mili-
tary Institute in June.

 

 

TALKBACK

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

 

Activities Fee

The Executive Committee will
vote on whether or not to raise
the student activities fee by $10-
15 next Monday. They want
your input. Talk to any EC
member or attend the meeting
Monday at 7 p.m.

Calyx News
Anyone who contributed can-
dids to last year’s Calyx can
pick them up on Jan. 28 and 30
in the Calyx office from 4-6
p.m. Also, anyone who has not
picked up their 91 yearbooks
can do so at this time.

lreland

A few spaces remain in the
group going to Ireland during
spring term. The trip is being
sponsored by the English De-
partment. Anyone interested,
please see Prof. Duvall in Payne
32A or call 463-8759.

Writing Center
The Writing Center is open for
winter term Tuesday through
Thursday from 7-10 p.m. in
Payne 2B. Students who want
help with writing projects of any
kind are encouraged to sign up
or to stop by for an individual
conference with a writing tutor.
Double tutors are available this
semester on Thursday nights.
Come to the Center and find out
how you can improve your
writing abilities and your grades
on writing assignments.

Women’s Forum
The Women’s Forum will be
holding their weekly meetings
every Sunday at 6 p.m. in the
Arlington Women’s Center.
Anyone interested in women’s
issues and activities on campus
is welcome to attend.

Summer Jobs
So many commitments, so little
time? Look for summer jobs,
internships and volunteer posi-
tions the easy way. Attend
Summer Opportunities Day,
Feb. 4, 10 a.m to 3 p.m.

Karate
Anyone interested in forming a
Karate/self-defense/kickboxing
club, call Tim Vanderver at
464-6273.

Big 4

Petitions to run for the big four
positions — President, Vice
President, and Secretary of the
Executive Committee and
President of the Student
Conduct Committee — are due
Feb. 3. Student body elections
will be held on Feb. 10.
Exercise your right to vote!

Be of Service
Alpha Phi Omega sevice frater-
nity is gearing up for its winter
term rush. Are you interested in
being of service to your commu-
nity? Want to meet new people?
Call Will at 463-2587 or Eliza-
beth at 464-4046 for more infor-
mation.

Lost and Found
A girls 10-speed, metallic blue,
Schwinn ‘‘World Sport’’ bike
has been found by W&L
security at the University Cen-
ter on the bdottom floor. To
claim the bike, call security
officer Bane.

Scholarship
Anyone interested in the United
Daughters of the Confederacy,
Virginia Division Scholarship
can contact the Financial Aid
Office for more information.

Internship

James Madison University is
pleased to announce the opening
of recruitment for the Fall 1992
and Spring 1993 International
Internship positions. Designed
primarily for juniors, seniors,
graduate students, and recent
graduates, this program offers
qualified Virginia students a
unique opportunity to gain
professional experience on an
international basis in their field
of interest. Complete details and
application materials are avail-
able for approximately 100
positions in 11 countries. Inter-
ested students may contact Judy
Cohen, Program Coordinator,
Paul Street House, James Madi-
son University, Harrisonburg,
VA 22807 or call (703) 568-
6979. The deadline for applica-
tions for both semesters is
March 16.

New Magazine

All interested students are en-
couraged to come to the first
meeting of the new student
magazine. This will be an excel-
lent opportunity to help shape
this publication. One of the first,
objectives will be to give it a
name. If you are interested in
writing, drawing, editing, pho-
tography or just to have a good
time — come to the University
Center, room 113 on Jan. 27 at
7 p.m,

 

Get It Out

Need to get a message tu the
student body. Put it in the Gen-
eral Notes. Leave a brief, typed
note in the General Notes enve-
lope outside The Ring-tum Phi
Office at room 208 of the Uni-
versity Center.

Jameson Leonardi compiled the
General Notes.

 

 

 
  

What do you think of SAC’s decision
to suspend Delt for five years?

 

Jim Prather, ’93, Carrollton,

Ga. — “I don’t think they
would have done it if it had
been a different fraternity.’

 

 

Stephen Mathis, ’92,
Memphis, Tenn. — ‘‘You
would never see the IU get in
that kind of trouble.”’

 

Greg Hicks, ’92,
President — ‘‘It sucks,’’

IFC

 

 

Chris Barker, °92, former
Delta Tau Delta President —
“Obviously I’m disappointed
by the decision. I feel it was
overly harsh and really didn’t
follow precedent.”’

Thomas A. ‘‘Baner’”’ Bane,
WA&L Security — ‘‘I think it’s
great. It’s ridiculous that they
tore it up like they did. Are
they going to act like this after
they graduate when they’re in
the real world and have to foot
all the bills?’’

 

 
 

Page 4

Play will surprise you

 

By RANDY DEVERE
Phi Staff Reporter

 

The Lenfest Center stage will be
the site of choreographed popping
toasters, dying plants and a fire, be-
ginning Feb. 7.

This ‘‘prop-show from hell,’’
director and Professor of Theatre Al
Gordon calls it, is the presentation of
the Sam Shepard play True West.

The play, Shepard’s best accord-
ing to Ryan Kull, who plays a pro-
ducer named Saul, centers around a

pair of brothers, Austin and Lee, who
mvet at their mother’s Southern Cali-
fornia home after a long period of
Seperation. Lee, played by senior
Mason Petit, is an aspiring screen-
writer, while Austin, junior Rich Cas-
sone, is a drifter and con man.

The emotional heart of the play
is the relationship and antagonism
between the two brothers.

“The brothers really represent
two sides of one person,’’ said Gor-

 

don. ‘‘Lee is a very conservative,
conventional person, while Austin is
much more wild and unpredictable.
The conflict between them is the
conflict between security and adven-
ture in all of us.”’

Gordon said that much of the
play’s drama comes from a gradual
blurring of the distinctions separating
the brothers.

“*As the story unfolds, we see
the brothers switch places,”’ he said.
“It’s Austin who actually gets a
screenplay published, while Lee de-
cides he wants to travel around the
country like his brother.’’

While Gordon describes the
play as ‘‘realistic, with metaphysical
undertones,’’ he emphasizes that it is
far from somber.

“It’s definitly different from
most of Shepard’s work. There’s a
great deal of humor in it,’? Gordon
said. ‘“The stage really gets trashed.
There’s a lot of debris.’’

Throughout the production of

True West, there has been student
input, Gordon said.

“The idea for the play came
from Mason, because he wanted to
use it for his senior thesis,’’ Gordon
said.

The additional casting of Kull
and Cassone only eased the produc-
tion pressure.

“Since the three of them are
were already good friends, we’ve all
had a great time putting this on,”’
Gordon says.

Kull agreed, adding that there
was little problem conveying the
story’s pivotal relationship between
Austin and Lee.

“The most important part of the
play is the chemistry between the
brothers, and Mason and Rich can
certainly communicate that,’’ he said.

The play will be staged Feb. 7-
12 at 8 p.m. each day, with a 2 p.m.
performance on Sunday, Feb. 9.
Tickets are still available for the Feb,
8-12 performances.

Publicity photo

Cassone, Kull and Petit during rehearsals for Sam Shepard’s True West.

W&LIFE

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1992

Publicity photo

The cast of Dracula, The Vampire Play rehearse an important moment in the play.

 

 

By JAMESON LEONARDI
Phi Staff Reporter

Three Washington and Lee freshmen have major
roles in Virginia Military Institute’s production of Dracu-
la, The Vampire Play.

W&L freshman James Durbin has the lead role of
Dracula. He said he was encouraged by friends to try out.

“‘[Freshmen] Melissa Wolf and Stefani Shepherd,
who are also in the play, encouraged me to try out,’’
Durbin said. ‘‘I really liked acting, so I gave it a shot.”’

Wolf plays the role of Lucy Seward, Dracula’s
victim, and Shepherd plays her maid Miss Wells.

“We saw the an ad in the local paper,’’ Wolf said.
“‘We thought it would be fun, so we gave it a shot.”’

Durbin said a beginning actor can get a role more
easily at VMI than at W&L.

“It’s more relaxed down at VMI,”’ Durbin said. ‘‘I
would have needed more experience before breaking into
the W&L Theater.”’

Director Joellen Bland had a small problem after

casting Durbin in the lead role.

“{Durbin’s] youth caused me to do something
different with the Dracula character,’’ Bland said. ‘‘Most
people think Dracula is old and scary. We tried to make
him younger and more romantic. We went for a more
seductive Dracula.’’

Durbin agrees with the character interpretation.

“We're trying to break the B-movie monster mold
with a younger, more cultured Dracula,’’ Durbin said.

Dracula, the Vampire Play, is based on Bram
Stoker’s famous horror novel, which was written in 1897.
Thirty years later, Hamilton Deane, the son of one of
Stoker’s childhood friends, adapted the novel for the
English stage. The play premiered in February 1927 in
London at the Little Theatre and ran for 391 performanc-
es. Today, it is considered the foundation for all vampire
plays and movies that have since followed.

The play will open on Jan. 23 and run Jan. 25, 29-
31, and Feb. 1, at 8:00 p.m. in the Scott Shipp Hall
Theatre at VMI.

For reservations, call the VMI Theatre at 464-7389.

 

 

  
 

Boneless

 

 
  

Chuck Roast

Perdue Grade mann

Breast
Quarters. .

aM of

 

HARRIS TEETER MEANS
SUPER LOW PRICES!

AT att
Ry 3

7O0¢

a wD

 

    
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
   

  

BUFFALO BAKERS

BAKING

Pound

 

POTATOES "=

   
 

   

/ WASHINGTON RED SKINS

 

RED
‘POTATOES

5 Lb. Bag

   

 

 

 

 

40 - 50 Count
Medium Shrim

 

 

Hunter All Natural
Ice Cream

 

 

 

ORVILLE REDENBACHER

MICROWAVE: 4 59
POPCORN... ai

EDDAR co 10.5 OZ.) OR
NABISC
ZINGS~ Poy ft
FISHER

a Oy
DRY ROASTED 09
PEANUTS... wes

 

GWALTNEY (HALF)

SPIRAL ;
SLICED HAM ....... Le.

12 OZ. CANS

SHASTA SOFT

DRINKS. ........ 6 PACK oo

BARTLES & JAYMES

WINE 99
COOLERS... pack

 

 

 

Moore's

Potato S

  

Oy
ox

i

 

 

 

SAVE 60¢ SAVE 70¢
| WHITE 90 YUKON 1 79 7
| POTATOES... 5LB.BAG @ GOLD. orn 5 LB. BAG Prices "Brleas Hisdinve Yessuak lntuare Sh teen” Through Jan vary 28, 1992
SAVE 50¢ AVE 10¢ '
RUSSET 949 SWEET 3 9
POTATOES............. — POUATONS.................. a © Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, January 28, 1992. In Lexington Store Only.
Soteaoe (20 LB. BAG - $3.40) ae 10 We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers, We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps
WHITE RED
POTATOES..................... Ls. @ POTATOES..................8. @ Aa

re Pepsi Or
Pepsi Cola

18 99

  

St

2 Ltr.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7
The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1992

 

 

- W&LIFE

 

 

W&L students explore foreign lands

 

By JAMESON LEONARDI
Phi Staff Reporter

During the fall, many Washing-

He said he was the only non- people, especially the children, were 9 Sharp blow
OF at Suntali strantage Japanese student in the club, which unusually friendly toward him. 13 Support
eh e —— opportunity to live and practiced eight hours each week. “As I rode my bike to school ‘3 ser nosh
y abroad. Although he has studied kickboxing everyday, I’d pass Japanese school 16 Against

Junior Missy Eppes spent fall
term living in Paris. She took part in
the Via Paris program, which allowed

her’ is iesaahel wack hool d be  -. said. ‘“Here I was in the exotic Far | 21 impetus
Paris. Eppes li A athe a ; or te We wore very thin pads, to East, and they think I am the exotic 23 coins

* - } ” ? '
ily that sooke no Enslish, = Wanderver and Hiroko Shima, *°cP from getting cut,"" Vanderver one.” = 25 Gull kin

at spoke no Eng J said. ‘“Punches to the face are illegal, Junior Mike Gray also studied 26 Facial

It was nice because both sons a Japanese friend but anything else goes.”’ in Japan at the Kansai and had the expressions

were my age,’’ Eppes said. “They Vanderver said. Vanderver had an opportunity to opportunity to live with a Japanese | °° Prescribed
were able to take me to fun places in Vanderver also lived with a enter a college toumament for all the family. 33 Bowling alley
the evenings.’ family that didn’t speak English. universities in the Osaka area. He lost “I spent a lot of time traveling 34 Delicate

Senior Tim Vanderver spent the ‘I was able to gain a good to the eventual tournament winner. —_around the country trying to compare we

last six months in Japan. He studied

 

 

 

   

knowledge of the Japanese language

 

 

at the Kansai University of Foreign because of the situation,” Vanderver inches shorter than I am,’’ Vanderver _culture,’’ Gray said. ‘‘I tried to get a 39 Prying one
Studies in Osaka. - _ Said. ‘I was able to practice the said. ‘‘I was really surprised to find feel for the differences as American oe
““During the summer, I worked things I had | d at Kansai and if : : 42 Soft flat cap
4 er, . gs I had leamed at Kansai and myself matched against an opponent and Japanese relations become more 45 Acid ©1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc 01/23/92
and traveled around in Japan,’’ W&L everyday.’’ who was taller than me and out- and more important.” 46 Maneuver Page rekecet :
= 47 Wood dye Last Week’s Answers:
49 Offered 8 Thought
marriage 9 Kind of wrench
51 Chain of rocks 10 Desire
53 Scrutinize 11 Aleutian island
ilati : j ; : 54 Advises 12 Abound
By LEKEISHA TOWNES compilation of long performed music by the group. Though group President Roger Sullivan called 58 Publishing 14 Conducta
Phi Staff Reporter With a new group of members, it will be this year a ‘‘rebuilding year,’’ he said that the director 20 Memorable
“easier to learn new songs’’ and ‘“‘have a bigger ‘‘significant contributions’’ of the new members 62 Otherwise period
Southern Comfort, Washington and Lee’s 12- repetoire’’ of songs to perform, according to mem- insure that Southern Comfort will continue to be . og — e feet port
man a cappella singing group, inducted five new ber Mason Allev. “‘outstanding.”’ 66 Dregs 26 Smoothly fluent
members last Thursday. 67 Wanton looks — 27 Speed contests
68 Frank 28 Unable to move

Freshmen Grant Cowell, Kip Ebel, Tom
Garber, Roger Libby and Ray Peeler are now a part

of the group. 71 Speak 32 Tennis start

Peeler said he was attracted to Southem vehemently =» 35 oo
Comfort because the group sings “more modem DOWN 37 Notable act 01/23/92
music than you’d hear in a regular chorus.”’ 1 Practice boxing 40 Production

But in addition to simply singing, Southem 2 It. river method
Comfort tries to put on an overall performance el

a pores PS . land 44 Bonds 52 Chimney 57 Ooze

Ebel said the group provides ‘‘another facet of 4 Typical example 46 TV checking channels 59 Bark cloth
singing. It’s more relaxed, and is sort of an acting icon, “ — a ae ol * cat

— : 7 aes
and singing experience.”” In fact, when auditioning 7 Metal bar 50 Cushion 56 Addict 64 Attempt

new members, Southern Comfort looks for ‘‘vocal
quality, stage presence, and a certain ‘fraternizing
according to Andrew Keller, the group’s
music director. He said a ‘‘quality of unity’’ is
important because the group members spend so

799

quality,

much time travelling together.

Indeed, the group often tours, giving shows Winter Clearance Sale
for alumni. Last weekend they were in Baltimore. nt & Spwenent 20-50% Off Dress Pants 20.50% om Sweaters 30% or
In February they'll be going north, stopping in § uterwear 30% Off anne amois Shirts
Boston Philadelphia New York Cit ins Group of Sport Shirts 30-50% Off One Rack of Ties 4 Price
é : " Top Coats 30% Off Corduroy Pants 2 Price

and Long Island.

_, While in Japan, Vanderver
joined the full-contact karate club at
Kansai.

in the United States, Vanderver said,
the rules in Japan were quite differ-

“I’m used to fighting guys 6-8

weighed me, which is pretty big for a
Japanese guy.”
Vanderver said the Japanese

children who would all wave, smile,
and say ‘herro, herro,’ ’’ Vanderver

and contrast American and Japanese

 

Page 5

 

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Markdown event
5 Lacking interest |13

17 Exact likeness
18 Poker stake
19 Personnel list

36 Made a mistake
38 Frost

69 Wrongful act
70 Catch sight of

29 Large ladle
31 Threesomes

 

 

 

 

 

Aluin-@ennis

Group of Shoes 4 Price

 

 

 

 

Also in February, the group will host the “rs
Southern Comfort Invitational. They plan to per- Publicity photo W&L Dog Collars & Leashes
form songs from their newly released cassette, Mock Ci ion Ties’?
which i ouictieedl for Roa dollars from any The 1991-92 members of Southern Comfort are looking forward to performing and ON

Southern Comfort member. The cassette is a

 

 

 

 

learning new songs with their new members.

Congratulations

Chi Omega

Pledge Class of 1992

 
    

Student Charge Available

 

MasterCard

 

   
 
 
  

  

Kappa Alpha Theta

Leta Lota Chapter

Lucy Moore Cavett

Dorothy Elise Copeland
Leslie Augusta Copeland
Dierdre Tannahill Denechaud
Melissa Anne Curtis

Stacy Lynn Donovan

Melinda Johnston

Jennifer Krystyna Lynch
Megan Elizabeth McClowskey
Leigh Erin McKinney

Noelle Maries Parrott
Annemarie Herta Parrott
Michele Loveday Ralston
Jane Axtell Shows

Sonya Maj Soderberg

Carrie Elizabeth Southgate
Patricia Anne Spruill
Katherine Erin Stephens
Linda Catherine Verlander
Elizabeth Anne Zarlek

1992 Pledge Class

Melissa McNaull
Mallory Meyers
Carrie Niederer
Amy Jones Katharine Ray
Kathy Knight Faith Truman
Anne-Michelle Langlois

Brandi Henderson
Jennifer Hickes
Nikki Hodurski

Alex Bognon
Jen Burdick
Elizabeth Carson
Francie Cohen
Bridget Cronin
Jane Finney
Amy French
Goose Garrigus

Congratulations!

 
 

 

 

 

 

Page 6

APO completes project

 

By ERIN MCKINNEY
Phi Staff Reporter

There was no ‘‘tear night’’ for the new
members of the Alpha Phi Omega service
fraternity, but pledges were recently initiated into
the organization.

The pledge class of six, headed by Pledge
Class President Elizabeth Dettmar, was required
to conceive and plan an original service project
prior to initiation.

The class involved themselves in a local
community service project called ‘‘Safe and
Sound.”’

Safe and Sound is part of the City of
Lexington’s housing renewal program called
“*Threshold,’’ which
is funded by state and local grants.

“Threshold concentrates on remodeling or
constructing homes for those in the area with
special needs,’’ Dettmar said.

Safe and Sound was established to
accomplish ‘‘the little things,’’ such as painting
and moving furniture, she said.

Safe and Sound offered Washington and Lee
students the opportunity to work with and to
help the poor in the Lexington community.

“‘l was very happy to be able to help those
families in our community,’’ Dettmar said.

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1992

 

 

‘Safe and Sound gave us the opportunity to be
involved.,”’

One project required the class to move loads
of furniture from a house to the Lexington Boys’
Club for storage.

The class also prepared a porch to be con-
verted into a bathroom for a woman restricted to
the first floor of her house.

APO Service Vice President, Alison Mosher,
said the pledge project ‘‘was very successful.”’

‘There was a nice turnout,’’ Mosher said,
‘‘and the people that we helped were very °
appreciative and happy — that is the best part! On social

 

‘‘We would like to help them [Safe and ; .
Sound] at least two or three times a term,”’ Justice
Mosher said.

The fraternity is constantly looking for new Dr. Cheryl
projects to work on, Dettmar said. Townsend Gilkes,

Recent APO service projects include the of Colby College,
distribution of Exam Aids to freshman during delivers the 3rd
exam week and renting refrigerators to students Annual Martin
at the beginning of the school year. Luther King Jr.

Recently, they bar-coded books in the library | Lecture on Justice
for the new computer catalogue ‘‘Annie.”’ and Non-Violent

APO is currently planning its winter term Social Change
Rush. There are two pledge classes each year, in Lee Chapel
according to Dettmar. Wednesday night.

‘*Anyone who is interested and completes a
project can become a member,”’ Dettmar said.

 

Chris Spirou

*The chairman of the New
Hampshire State
Democratic Party will
speak at 8 p.m.
in the Lenfest Center.

These reports were compiled
by Phi Staff Reporter Joyce
Bautista

 

Lectures in Lex

 

Thatcher

 

 

Rehnauist ©
to speak
at opening

 

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi Staff Reporter

 

son.

struction.

Justice Department.

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

a booksigning at 2:30 Phi Acting Editor

p.m. in the Bookstore The Independent Union is almost $2000

and host a public in debt as a result of a poor turnout at its

reception at 3:15 p.m. | fundraiser for Superdance Saturday.

in the Morris House. A maximum of 150 people attended the

‘‘Winter Picnic in Lex Vegas’’ and the
‘‘Casino Party’’ that followed, according to

Tors? ie O'Neill IU President Erica Ingersoll.

* Rev Jesse Jackson Ingersoll said she expected at least 300

i; Mich ael S. Dukakis people to attend the party, which was held in

; : the pavilion.
* President Jimmy Carter Unlike last year, this year’s party was

 

 

        
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
     
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

P OODOUL OLE OER LULL EOE EDULE LOL

T-SHIRTS

TEAM *
NIFORMS

10%

   
  
   
  
  
  
 

   
 

facility on each floor.

  

  

26 S. Main Street

 
 

or

     

Vita & Associates
26 N. Main Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
    
    
    

S$ custom pRwtc

Redeem this coupon for
OFF your order Gh
Good Through Feb. 28

New Apartments for 1992

Leases are now being taken for August 1992 occupancy of
twelve new apartments to be located in the former Lyric
Theater building on Main Street. There will be four one-
bedroom apartments and eight two-bedroom apartments. Each
is equipped with kitchen appliances, window coverings,
energy efficient heat, air conditioning, and a secured laundry

ONE MONTH’S FREE RENT will be given to all parties
leasing an apartment before January 31, 1992.

For more information and to review floor plans contact:

Blue Ridge Design/Build Inc.

463-9551

K&W Office Equipment

 

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

aimed at students who are under 21.

oe

JACKETS

   
  

      

America’s premier guest ranches. Positions are

  

tuation for seniors who want to do something
special before starting their careers. The Ranch

Howe at (303) 670-1323.

Deavers Alley Business Services

TERM PAPERS

Typed
Resumes, Cover Letters & Envelopes
Laser Printing and FAX Service

   
  
  

463-9455

463-7563

 
  
  
 

FOR COLLEGE

type of financial aid regardiess
of grades or parental income.

  

SITIO Eee le!

Available Immediately!
Special grants program

   
  

   
     
  

 
       
     
    

 

 

very student eligible
No one turned down
*20% Discount on all eat application J
non-sale items to students” fee (ofudabe to:
P. 0. Box 22-4026 RESULTS
(703) 463-1620 Hollywood, FL 33022 | QUARANTEED.
11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
VISA, MC, AMEX

 

     
          

Spend this summer in Wyoming, working at one of

able in all areas of guest services. This is an ideal si-

ager will be interviewing on campus February 6. If
you would like to see a brochure, obtain an applica-
tion, or schedule an interview, check with the Career
Development Office. Question! Call Bob or Margie

203 N. Main Street

MONEY

Every student is eligible for some

  

the Supermarket and The Boneshakers, Affairs Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins said.

Chief Justice William Rehnquist ,
will preside over the April 4 dedica-
tion of the Powell addition to the *
Washington and Lee School of Law. ,

While in Lexington, Rehnquist
will also participate in a symposium, +
said Carol Shorter, secretary for Dean
of the School of Law Randall Bezan- '

Former United States Supreme
Court Justice Louis Powell, an alum- '
nus of the W&L undergraduate and
law schools, recently donated his '
papers to the law school library. ,
These papers are to be housed in the
addition that is currently under con- ’

Rehnquist received his under- ©
graduate, masters and law degrees ,
from Stanford University. After prac-
ticing law in several private firms, he *
became assistant attorney general at ,
the Office of Legal Council for the

In 1976, Rehnquist became an |
associate justice of the United States
Supreme Court and has served as

p

i

chief justice since 1986.
THURSDAY FRIDAY WEDNESDAY ar cadeeii ode Seven”
Court justices in the past, including

Oscar Arias Margret Thatcher _Dick Vitale Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi Justice Sandra Day O’Conner and
*The former president of *The former British * The noted basketball Justice Byron White.

Costa Rica and 1987 prime minister commentator for ESPN

Nobel Peace Prize will lecture at and ABC will speak = S a

winner will speak 8 p.m. in VMI's after that evening's asl no ni t uts | n e t

at 7:30 p.m. Cameron Hall. basketball game in

in Lee Chapel. Entrance is Warner Center.

cue — ac oo * Mr, Vitale will also conduct By PAMELA KELLEY Ingersoll said she thought the bands, Lost in mittee, Associate Dean of Students for Greek

would draw more people. Atkins said the injunction against ‘
“‘Obviously we were wrong,”’ she said. parties was a “‘consistent’’ practice that the ,

Tuesday, Interfratemity Council Presi- judicial committee, applies to community-
dent Greg Hicks asked each fraternity to wide events such as Fancy Dress and

donate money to pay off the debt since the Superdance.

party was for charity. The event’s proceeds He suggested that the $10 admission ©

would have gone to Superdance, Washington price might have been too expensive for

and Lee’s traditional Muscular Dystrophy students immediately after the holidays.

+

Association fundraiser, which is scheduled Ingersoll said she thought that everyone
for Friday. who attended the Casino party had a good '
Band parties and other university-wide time, but added that recent TU events have |

events that might conflict with Saturday’s not received enough of a response to warrant

party were banned by the IFC judicial com- more.

Rt. 5, Box 379 BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE HI

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
703-463-3478 Lee Hi Restaurant 1-800-768-LEHI

avail-

really
Man-

 

Everyday Low Price On CDs $13.49
Box Seats and Double Discs Excluded

January Specials
Sundays rent 2 movies get 3rd movie
Free (99* movies excluded)

Also on Sundays, Nintendo and Super
Nintendo rentals only 99
Top 50 Country Cassettes $7.99

Mastercharge and Visa Accepted
Stonewall Square 463-9800

 
  

     
 
  
 
        
 

 

 

 
   
 
 

  
 
     
 

 

Student Aid.

    
       
     
       
         
     
     

falas Tels

PC CLARK

Bae

ToT Teles

 

Ski Massanutten after 12:30 p.m. on Monday and Friday and
you'll receive some she saving financial assistance. Show
us your valid college ID —full or part time — and purchase your
lift ticket for just $12 and rent your equipment for $10.

Bring us this ad and we'll aid you even more with an
additional $2 off your lift ticket.

So find some friends, tear out this ad and come to
Massanutten on Monday or Friday, You'll enjoy the best twi-
light skiing value in the area w hen you ski our two new slopes
and ride our new “Quad” chairlift for just $10.

| ®Y MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

 

 

 

 

Valid 1992 Ski Season only. May not be used with other discounts. Not available on holidays.

a a CS Gi GEE GEES GEE GEE GD Ge Gee

 
The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1992

 

Page 7

 

Campaigning ‘on the shoulders of giants

 

v CAMPAIGN cont. from page 1

affairs until July 1990, said the alum-
ni chapters have been preparing a
long time for this campaign.

“I personally have been getting
ready for the campaign for nine years,
Strengthening the alumni organiza-
tions and building a foundation from
which to launch this campaign,’’ Ses-
soms said.

Each chapter campaign will be
led by a committee chairman respon-
sible for training a core of volunteers,
preparing a list of alumni likely to
make capital contributions and then
getting them to give to the campaign.

Campaign organizations in each
of the larger alumni chapters, such as
Washington, Richmond, Baltimore,
New York, Philadelphia, Houston and
Boston, are expected to have close to
40 volunteers on staff. But smaller
alumni chapters might only have two
or three people serving on the chap-
ter’s committee, Sessoms said.

““My job was to organize a com-
mittee of about 35 people,’’ said
Vernon Holleman, '58, chairman of
the Washington, D.C. campaign. “‘l

 

took the position because they asked
me to. Going to W&L is one of the
most important things that ever hap-
pened to me.”’

While the Washington area boasts
about 1,500 active alumni, Holleman
has prepared a list of about 125 pos-
sible major contributors.

“We want to get each of them to
match George Washington’s gift,”’
Holleman said.

Holleman will not have long to
wait before his committee goes into
active solicitation. The Washington,
D.C. drive will be the first chapter to
kick-off its efforts, just one day after
the entire Capital Campaign is an-

nounced at Mount Vernon next
month.
Washington, D.C., by far the

largest of the alummi chapters. was
chosen for its historic ties to the
university.

“It is spiritually the right place to
begin because of our namesakes,”’
Sessoms said. ‘‘Besides Mount Vern-
on, Alexandria was the boyhood
home of Robert E. Lee. Moreover,
Washington is a challenge because it
is the biggest chapter, and I like to

i

Ke

Although complete, the Lenfest Center is included in the Capital Campaign. inset: the building's

  
   

namesake, H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest. He is also the chairman of the Capital Campaign Committee.

have a challenge up front.’’

The D.C. chapter will begin its
drive toward a goal of nearly $4 mil-
lion with a celebration at the May-
flower Hotel in downtown Washing-
ton on Feb. 14. Noted author and
Trustee Tom Wolfe, ’51, will host the
evening.

Since each alumni chapter along
the campaign trail is designed like a
mini-campaign, each will have a kick-
off event or party similar to Washing-
ton’s. Development office _ staffer

Christine Davis is in charge of plan-
ning these events.

“*The idea is to try to get as many
people as possible to come to the
city’s kick-off,’’ Davis said.

Featured in each gala will be a
12-minute video presentation fol-
lowed by a description of the Capital
Campaign.

Narrated by Journalism Professor
John Jennings, the video is a nostal-
gic look at the history and traditions
of W&L.

‘“‘The video is there to make
people feel good about Washington
and Lee,’’ Davis said. ‘“‘It has a defi-
nite purpose: to show about what is
going on at W&L today.”’

And since W&L today stands On
the Shoulders of Giants, the point of
the campaign is to insure that the
university always remains there.

“The campaign is important to
secure and strengthen the most unique
and special university in America,”
Sessoms said.

Suspended fraternity will petition ruling to Pres. Wilso

 

vy DELT continued from page 1

 

dows, walls and graffiti will only cost about
$500. He said he does not know how much
repairing the bar will cost.

Howison said SAC had two reasons for
suspending Delt rather than placing it on “‘criti-
cal probation:’’ the scope of the damage was
extensive; and during the period of the destruc-
tion, Delt was on house corporation probation
and had been given Interfraternity Council
probation that would have taken effect at the
beginning of winter term.

‘*From SAC’s perspective, after the frater-
nity was placed on probation — not by an
adversary, but by an ally [the house corp.] —
they continued to abuse the property,’’ he said.

Robert Wilson disagreed with SAC’s
ruling that the damage was systematic.

For instance, he said, Delt decided at a
chapter meeting in November that the bar would
not be destroyed. The house was damaged
‘‘randomly and by various individuals,’’ he
said.

But Howison said SAC concluded that
members had painted graffiti, broke windows

3 ae

 

and put holes in walls ‘‘over a period of time.”’

“‘We certainly believed that [the damage
to the house] involved several [members of the
chapter],’’ he said. ‘‘We believed that a climate
had been created in Delt that made vandalism
likely.’’

But suspension was unnecessary, Cole
said, because the chapter and the house corpora-
tion had responded properly to the actions of
chapter members.

““My response to what happened at the
house was in keeping with what I understood
the university wanted the house corporation’s
role to be in the Renaissance program,”’ he said.
In January, Delt was scheduled to begin renova-
tion under W&L’s $13 million Fratemity Re-
naissance program.

Robert Wilson said three members of the
chapter were disciplined for their involvement
in the vandalism. He agreed with Cole that the
damage to the house did not merit a five-year
suspension.

“I don’t believe [SAC’s decision] was fair
relative to the damage that has occurred in other
fraternity houses,’’ he said. ‘“There were far
more flagrant acts of disregard that weren’t
punished [similarly].’’

He pointed out that Sigma Phi Epsilon
was placed on critical probation in November
1990 after Peer Soderberg, then vice president
of SPE, fired a shotgun into the ceiling of the
SPE house to break up a fight between mem-
bers of Phi Gamma Delta and SPE. And in
January 1991, then SPE member Ulysses Shiu-
Ting Hui was arrested at the fraternity house for
smuggling hashish and possessing marijuana.
Although the presence of drugs in the house
violated SPE’s critical probation, SAC followed
IFC’s recommendation and did not suspend the
chapter.

Howison said Friday that he was not
ambivalent about the decision to suspend Delt.

““Every member of SAC would have voted
exactly the same way regardless of what house
this was,’’ Howison said.

If President Wilson upholds SAC’s deci-
sion, Robert Wilson said, ‘‘it’s possible’ that
Delt might attempt to exist as an unofficial
fraternity at W&L.

““We have considered that option,’’ Robert
Wilson said, ‘‘[of existing] as what Delt nation-
al would call on ‘colony status,’ having some
focus, like responsible drinking, and always

working toward one day core’ (offi-

cially).’’

Although no power structure exists to
control a chapter that has been suspended,
Howison said, the university would not accept
an unofficial chapter.

‘They would cease to exist and could not
function as an organization,’’ he said. ‘‘We
would not permit Delta Tau Delta to live in
their [present] house.”’

Kenneth File, executive vice president of
the national Delta Tau Delta, said it would be
“highly unusual”’ for the fraternity to allow the
W&L chapter to keep its charter if its appeal
failed.

“We have never recognized a chapter that
a university has ceased to recognize,”’ File said.

Although the fraternity fully supports the
appeal, File said, it would like to recolonize at
W&L if President Wilson upholds the suspen-
sion. But he echoed Robert Wilson’s sentiments
that a five-year suspension would be a ‘‘death
sentence’’ for Delt.

‘Everyone is painfully aware that the
number of men [at W&L] is declining relative
to the number of overall students,’’ File said. ‘‘I
truly believe that if we leave, the tradition of
Delta Tau Delta will not retum to W&L.”’

 

 

 

 

Zeta Tau Chapter of
Kappa Kappa Gamma

Would Like To Congratulate
Our New Pledges

Wendy Alexander
Caroline Amason
Kait Barton

Kathy Boozer

Frost Bush

Eva Cid

Janet Doliviera
Nancy Edge

Leslie Hallet

Becca Herring
Elizabeth Holleman
Marina Jackson
Jennifer Jones
Shelby Kerr
Vanessa Mackinlay
Becca McCord
Elizabeth McCord
Alex Miles

Carol Pierce

Leslie Ratz

 

 

 

 

 

Editors grapple
with conflicts
of interest

v EDITORS continued from page 1

Wilson also said, however, that
he personally did not believe Peltz
acted in bad faith.

Peltz said he had in fact caused
some of the damage in the house,
and that he had informed Dean of
Students David Howison.

According to Peltz, ‘‘almost
everyone in the house’’ had taken
part in the vandalism.

‘*T was unaware of the extent of
Rick’s involvement with the
incidents at Delt,’’ said the Phi’s
other Editor, senior Jason Kelley. *
don’t think our coverage of the
incidents in any way affected SAC’s
decision to suspend Delt. What we
want to do is avoid any possible
appearance that we did anything
wrong.”

According to the Phi’s News
Editor, junior Cathy Lopiccolo,
these new developments should not
be taken out of proportion.

“*We don’t think anyone

‘ involved in the story, or the student
body, were hurt in any way by our
reporting,’ she said. ‘‘Everything
was accurate, and that’s our job.”’

‘*After the first story, I did not
allow Rick to influence our Delt
stories in any way,’’ said Kelley.

According to Kelley, the Phi
often faces questions of conflict of
interest because of the smallness of
the campus.

Howison commended the Phi’s
“Special Edition,’’ which was
published Jan. 18.

“*Tom Eisenhauer [the Phi staff
member who wrote the story fea-
tured in the edition] and the rest of
the staff did an outstanding job at
presenting both sides of a difficult
issue’’ he said.

However, Howison refused to
comment on both the original story
and the story ‘‘Perkins: Delt could
be gone,’’ which appeared in the
Jan. 16 regular edition of the
newspaper.

 

 

According to Howison, the
Student Conduct Committee will
hold more disciplinary proceedings
concerning the damagé to the house.

Congratulations

Pi Beta Phi

Presenting the newly pledged
colony members of the

ao

roverere.
-.

Katharine Adams
Sarah Aschenbach
Drewry Atkins
Carrie Baker
Pina Benincasa
Kristen Berg
Stacy Bogert
Erika Bolstad
Lauren Brillante
Lise Brown
Stacey Cofield
Meredith Cook
Tricia Coughlin
Jill Covington
Becky Crow

Kit Dodds
Megan Duncan

es

anes

one

en

5
55
ps

saat
on
SEEreee re

a
se

Patera ore e
SSeS

Sd
Petar

Kerry Egan

Laina Ewan

Susan Fisher

Lisa Florentine
Allyson Gardner
Cathy Gartin
Christine Grandinetti

Christine Hamlet
Tina Hand
Colleen Hickey
Leslie Holben
Cameron Huddleston
Ivy Johnson

Kelli Klick
Teresa Lamey
Jennifer Latham
Krista Lindsey
Charoltte Long
Meredith Long
Joanna Love
Heather Loveland
Melissa Malone
Erin Metzler
Sara Morgan
Mary Muelhberg
Stacy Newlin
Sarah Newport
Bevan Ovens
Gamble Parks
Sarah Pastuszek
April Powell

Virginia Theta Chapter

Beth Provanzana
Laura Purcell
Jennifer Queen
Kristen Rawlings
Marisa Ritter
Eleanor Roy
Mollie Saunders
Elizabeth Schoellkopf
Ashley Scott
Jennifer Shaker
Stefani Shepherd
Holly Simmons

rotatatateteterereren

sere

rete

rates

Rachel Simpson
Karen Stutzmann
Megan Talbott
Betsy Treadway
Sarah Tune
Jackie VanVliet
Marissa Vivona
Amy Vogt

Ali Walker
Jessica Willett
Robin Williamson
Melissa Wolf

 
 

 

This week’s scores:
Wrestling - W.Md 27, W&L 22; W&L 24,
JHU 19
Basketball - W&L 71, EMC 58
Men's Swimming - W&L 119, G’town 97
Women's Swimming- G'town 110, W&L 93
Track - M&W at Virginia Tech Relays

 

 

 

S

Che Ring-tum Phi

PORTS

 

 

Next week’s games:
Basketball - 1/24 (h) BC, 1/29 (h) H-SC
Wrestling - 1/25 W&L Invitational
Women's Swimming - 1/25 at Swarthmore
Men’s Swimming - 1/25 at Swarthmore
Track - 1/25 at Lynchburg Invitational

 

 

PAGE 8

 

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

= 5 2 4
Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Bryan Watkins lets a three-point shot go in Mennonite Tuesday. Watkins scored 12 of his 21
the second half of W&L’s 71-58 win over Eastern points in the decisive second half.

Brown, W&L men
top Hoyas 119-87

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Staff Reporter

Obscured by Doug Brown’s
last home meet and Claire Dudley’s
new school record, people might have
forgotten that the Washington and
Lee men’s swimming team routed
another tough opponent.

Brown had another three-win
meet, the fourth time he has won
three races, and the Generals
manhandled the Georgetown Hoyas,
119-87. The win evened W&L’s
season mark at 4-4.

It was the second big win in a
row for the Generals, and for coach
Page Remillard, it wasn’t an
unexpected sight.

**I wasn’t surprised at all by
either win,’’ said Remillard. ‘‘We
missed the challenge at Catholic and
lost. Afterwards, we talked about it
and the kids just decided to show
their pride on their own.’’

Like the meet against Buffalo
State, the Generals dominated from
start to finish, taking first place in
eight of the eleven events. The
biggest event was the second one, the
1000-yard freestyle, and not for the
race itself.

Brown won the race easily.
But before it, Remillard and the team
congratulated Brown on a terrific four
years at W&L, while the fans gave
him a standing ovation.

Brown was definitely moved.
He posted another three-win meet,
capturing the 1000-yard freestyle, the

 

200-yard butterfly, and the 500-yard
freestyle. Andrew Pearson took home
two victories in the 50-yard freestyle
and the 100-yard freestyle. While
John Rowe rounded out the individual
first-place finishes with victories in
the 400-yard individual medley and
the 200-yard breaststroke.

‘‘After the Catholic meet the
team had a talk,’’ said Pearson. ‘‘We
decided to work harder and it paid off
this past week.”’

Brown also sees this past week
as a prelude of things to come.

‘*After Buffalo State | thought
it was the adrenaline, but the
Georgetown meets shows that we are
where we want to be. A few more
hard workouts and then we’ll start to
get into our specific events.”’

The way the team swam their
last two races you'd think the
championships were this week. But
the Generals still have three dual
meets to go, and Remillard is looking
to those as tuneups for the
championship season.

“It would be nice to win our
last three meets,’ said Remillard.

“‘We have three tough ones,
especially the one against Mary
Washington. But I think we’re
looking good.”’

The Generals are on the road
from here on out, and their first stop
is Swarthmore this Saturday at 1 p.m.
The team is then off until the Mary
Washington meet on Feb. 8.

SHOE FIXERS

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

464-6666

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satin shoes dyed in 1 hr.

 

 

 

 

 

Koppagolllo

WINTER SALE

All Winter Merchandise
Vz Off

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

 

 

 

 

 

Come to your Printing Center for:

+ Flyers and Posters

+ Copying and Printing
* Programs

+ Newsletters

 

L MUSIC C

We Buy and Sell

Used CD’s

Mon.-Thurs. 11-6, Fri.-Sat. 11-5

University PRINTING CENTER ist Floor Reid Hall - 463-8448

 

The Printing Center offers quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job return, and
competitive pricing. We have a Macintosh IIx which can read IBM disks. Scanned
images can be added to your campaign or organizational flyers for that individual
appearance. Need a high resolution output? We offer our Linotronic 200SQ. Our
services cover University and non-profit organizations. Stop by today!

  

<

464-4050

« Custom Resumes and Letters
¢ Transparencies

« Brochures and Booklets

+ Scanning

 

 

January 23, 1992

Physics sparks W&L win

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Sports Editor

 

What goes up must come down.

} It’s one of the basic theories of

physics.

The Washington and _ Lee
basketball team got a quick physics
lesson at halftime Tuesday night and
promptly applied that learning into a
win.

In trailing Old Dominion Athletic
Conference foe Eastern Mennonite
35-28 at halftime, the Generals
watched in awe as the Royals shot 58
percent from the floor including 100
percent from three-point land while
the Generals shot just 32 percent.

‘*We got a little disheartened that
they were so hot,’’ said W&L head
coach Verne Canfield. ‘‘We were

1 lucky to be within shouting distance
| at halftime.”

Canfield has been around long
enough, 28 years, to know the Royals
would cool off in the second half.

“‘T just reassured the guys that
their shots would start to miss and
some of ours would start to fall,’’
Canfield said. ‘‘And that’s what
happened.”’

The Generals

turned up the

 

 

From STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee
women’s indoor track season
started with a bang for junior
Nicole Casteel.

Casteel set a school record in
the 3,000-meters at the Virginia
Tech Invitational. Casteel’s time of
11:44 broke the school record by
21 seconds.

The Generals also got a
strong performance from
sophomore Stefanie Brown. Brown
won her heat in the 400-meters
with a time of 1:07.

For the men’s track team, the

 

 

ISPORTS NOTEBOOK|

distance runners led the way at
Virginia Tech. Senior Charles
Edwards won his heat in the 3,000-
meters with a time of 9:09.6.

Dean of Freshman and
Residence Life Dennis Manning
was the first faculty member to sit
on the bench as a ‘‘guest coach’’
for the W&L basketball team.

Manning participated at
practice the day before the game,
ate with the team during its
pregame meal, and sat in on the
pre-game, halftime and post-game
meetings.

 

 

Lack of numbers hurts women's
swimming against Georgetown

 

By ERIN MCKINNEY
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Despite a strong team effort, the
Washington and Lee women’s
swimming team couldn’t overcome a
numbers difference and lost to
Georgetown last week 110-93.

Junior Claire Dudley led the
Generals’ effort by setting a school
record in the 400-yard individual
medley with a time of 4:51:49.

Dudley won the 400 IM as well
as the 100-yard breaststroke and 100-
yard freestyle races.

Coach Kiki Jacobs said Dudley
wasn’t the only standout swimmer for
her Generals.

‘Most everybody had season-
best times,’’ the coach said.

Senior captain Jodi Herring

contributed two wins. She won the

   

1,650-yard freestyle and the 100-yard
butterfly.

Jacobs was also impressed with
the relay team, who came from
behind to win the last race of the
meet.

“‘They knew at that point that
we were going to lose the meet, but
they swam gutsy anyway,”’ she said.

“‘Last year, Georgetown just
killed us,’’ Jacobs said. ‘‘I think they
were really surprised with our
performance.”’

The Generals won eight of the
11 events, but Georgetown’s size
negated W&L’s wins.

“‘The only reason Georgetown
won was because they had 18
people,”’ Jacobs said. ‘‘Our swimmers
are great — it’s our size [nine
swimmers] that’s going to kill us.”’

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant

J Jansport day packs and book ba
Bike

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

Lexington

130 S. Main St.

Shop

463-7969

WEL Students, we welcome you to our
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St., Lexington - Below First American Bank

Financial Aid available immediately! Special grants pro-
gram. Every student eligible. No one turned down, simple
application. Send name, address and $1 P&H fee (refunda-

ble) to: Student Services, P.O.

Mon.-Thurs.

 

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane

463-3975

 

Box 22-4026, Hollywood, FL

  
      

8-6; Fri. 8-5

OVI VAP VPP VAP

The Beauty Bar

159 S. MAIN ST. §
463-2686

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS

 

BY APPOINTMENT

OVPVOV PPO VPV PVP VP OPV MPV PV PVG

defensive pressure, harrassing the
Royals into shooting an anemic 29
percent from the floor and eight
percent from three-point range.

Junior Bryan Watkins led the
second-half effort. Defensively, he
shut down EMC guard Rodney
Shields, who scored 15 first-half
points. Shields scored just two points
in the second half.

Offensively, Watkins hit three of
five second half shots, all three-

pointers, and scored 12 points,
including six in the run that put the
game away.

Watkins broke a 51-51 tie with
two free throws and then buried a
three-pointer to start an 11-0 run that
lasted over five minutes. Sophomore
Matt Newton added a three-pointer
during the run and scored all of his
career-high 11 points in the second
half.

Newton came into the game and
lifted W&L’s intensity level.

“Every game we stand around
and wait for someone to lead the
way,’’ Canfield said. ‘‘Matt provided
the lead Tuesday. He was the
inspiration.”’

Newton was one of four Generals
in double figures in the 71-58 win.

Watkins led the way with 21 points.
Senior Mark Melton had 13 points
and 10 rebounds. Sophomore Paul
Baker was also in double figures with
12.

The win came after the Generals,
5-9 overall and 2-6 in the ODAC,
were beaten 79-46 by Randolph-
Macon.

‘‘Macon was more motivated
than we were,’ said Canfield. ‘‘We
totally lacked intensity — hand we
will work on our intensity.”’

Newton provided enough
intensity to overcome Eastern
Mennonite. Canfield hopes the

intensity will carry over to Friday
night’s game with ODAC leader
Bridgewater, a 74-61 winner over
W&L earlier this season.

“‘What can you say about
Bridgewater?’’ said Canfield.
“They’ve got one of the two best, if
not the best, players in the league in
Todd Rush, and they have more depth
than anyone.

“We're the underdog, just like
we are in every game we play, but
we’re at home,”’ said Canfield. ‘‘We
can go for it with everything we’ve
got. If we play both halves with
intensity, then we have a chance.”’

Wrestlers earn first victory

 

By JACOB KIMBALL
Phi Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee
wrestling team picked up their first
win of the year in the Johns Hopkins
Tri-Match. The Generals defeated the
host team 24-19, but fell to Western
Maryland, 27-22.

The Generals started quickly
against Johns Hopkins as Eric
Shirley, who dropped down to the
118-pound weight class for the match,
recorded a 5-4 decision, and that
started W&L in the right direction.

Next up was an exciting match
in the 126-pound class. Rich Paini
found himself in a tough match, yet
produced a takedown and near fall in
the final seconds to tally a 6-4
decision.

Adam Williams showed his
consistency with another top
performance this week in his 4-1
decision, and John Cherry notched a
10-5 decision for his first win of the
season. Beau King then recorded a
pin that capped off the tremendous
start and put the high-flying Generals
up 18-0,

Head coach Gary Franke said,
“These early matches were the key
for us because we needed a solid lead
on points to endure our problems in
the two heavy divisions.”’

However, Johns Hopkins was
not daunted by the lead and began to
creep back into the match. Kevin
Batteh and Lea Ambercrombie both
battled hard, but were beaten. With
the score now at 18-10, the Generals
relied on team leader Peer Soderberg
to once again give them a
commanding lead.

Soderberg obliged quickly,
recording a near-fall in the first
period of his match. He maintained
this lead and withstood a closing
flurry by his Johns Hopkins
challenger to win a_ hard-fought
match.

After W&L forfeited the 190-
pound match, heavyweight John
Conkling, still suffering from a
shoulder injury, lost a close match.
The Generals were able to withstand
this loss and secure their first win of
the season.

Franke said of the victory, ‘‘It
was a very close match. All of the
individual matches were even, and we
managed to come out on top.’’

Against Western Maryland, the
Generals once again started out fast,
going up 6-0 on a pin by Shirley.
W&L also benefitted from decisions
by double-winners on the day
Williams, Cherry, Soderberg, and a
forfeit win for King.

The early wins gave W&L a 22-
15 lead entering the final two
matches, but with two forfeits due to
the injuries, Western Maryland was
able to steal a 27-22 victory.

The Generals will next host the
15th annual Washington and Lee
Invitational this Saturday in Warner
Center,

Despite the setback to Western
Maryland, the win over Johns
Hopkins should provide momentum
as the Generals prepare for this next
meet.

““We gained some confidence,
and now the team knows what it is
capable of doing,’’ said Franke.

 

Fundralser '
We're looking for a top fraternity, sor-
ority or student organization that
would like to make $500-$1500 for a
one-week marketing project right on
campus. Must be organized and
hard-workingl. Call Lee at (800)
592-2121, ext. 115.

 

 

 

JOBS AVAILABLE
Counselors for residential sum-
mer program at UVA for gifted
students. June 23 to August 8,
1992. Room 260 Ruffner Hall or
call 804/924-3182.

 

 

 

 

8

 

= =
audiotronics
We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
MONSTER OPTONICA
KEF cwDd
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM
* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

 

| Valley TrueVale. Hardware

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon,-Sat,. 8:30-6:00

Sun, 1:00-5:00
463-2186

 

 

 

  
 

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

 

A he Rig hy a

DBP

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

  
 
   
  

703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
