 

November
 

 

he King-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 9

security
to share
Safety info

By Pamela Kelley
Associate Editor

 

 

The Washington and Lee security
staff outlined two information-sharing
plans it hopes will make students and
other community members become
more safety-conscious.

According to a statement released
by W&L Security Director Mike
Young, information regarding crimes,
lost and found property, suspicious
persons, etc., will be posted on the
bulletin board in front of the Co-op.

Young said he also hopes to help
students become more familiar with
the security staff by having a security
guard on hand at the W&L library
for questions, concerns and com-
plaints at least once a week.

‘It will probably be me most of
the time,’’ said Young, who called
the library lobby his ‘‘Northern Out-
post,’ as opposed to Dean of
Students David Howison’s outdoor
“Auxiliary Office.’’

Young said the two programs
should begin some time next week.
Meanwhile, Young said students may

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Alexandra Glynn looks over the shoulders of senior Susan Watkins and
junior Catherine McCullough as they peddle tickets for Saturday’s MC Gala.

Motown and donkeys
to greet Gala goers

Bohigian said.

 

not notice several other measures
taken by security, like checking lock-
ed dormitory doors more frequently.

Young said he is looking into
getting additional emergency phones
for the Corral, Davidson Park, the
area near the Lenfest Center and the
Law School.

Young said several Gaines resi-
dents have approached the university
about having all of the dormitory’s
doors locked at night. In the past few
weeks security has escorted an
average of six people home each
night. He also said lighting seems to
be a big concern among students.

By Missy Curtis
Staff Reporter

 

Between 250 and 300 tickets have been sold
to couples for Saturday’s first-ever Mock
Democratic Convention Presidential Gala Ball,
according to MC Public Relations co-chairman
Talley Woolley.

“Everything is going really smoothly,’’ she

said. ‘‘There has been lots of student
enthusiasm.”’
According to senior David Bohigian,

coordinating chairman of the Gala, ‘‘The
purpose of the ball is to turn everyone’s
attention to Mock Convention. It’s an
awareness-raiser as well as a fund-raiser,’’

The Waller Family, a 50s motown band
that played at Fancy Dress in 1989, will be
playing at the Gala.

‘At Fancy Dress they played old good-
time stuff, everybody loved them,’’ he said.

The Gala is scheduled to be held in the
Warner Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Bohigian
said the gym will be decorated to reflect a
presidential inaugural ball-type theme with red,
white and blue bunting, banners, flags of the 50
states, balloons and flowers. A live donkey will
greet dance-goers at the door, he said.

Tickets for the Gala will be on sale
Thursday evening in the MC office in the
University Center, and at the door Saturday
evening.

PROMISES, PROMISES

4

 

Grades

2.9 PAO
2.8 IIK®
2.8 LDE
2.6 ATA
2.6 IIKA
2.6 UX
2.6 Ka
2 PKX

AXA
XY
XAE
BOIl
OTA
@DK‘Y
XN
KA

 

point.

Freshman Midterm

Zio
Lo
fad
2.4
2.4
2.4
2.0
2.0

Each fraternity's freshmen midterm grades were reported by
officers of the house and rounded to the nearest tenth of a

 

 

IFC adds new

publicity fee

By Maureen Levey
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Interfraternity Council passed a motion Tuesday
night to charge all members of fraternities a $10 fee to
pay for IFC publicity and to partially fund a speaker on
campus.

The money will be used to pay for a speaker to be
co-sponsored by Contact and for publicity such as
Springfest and the IFC newsletter.

Tuesday’s 8-7 vote confirmed the preliminary ap-
proval the board gave for the fee last week.

Also last week, Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins distributed to each
fraternity its freshmen’s midterm grades, but refused to
release a ranking of all houses.

He said sometimes midterm grades do not accurately
reflect students’ work and that there was no point in
comparing grades among fraternities.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 7, 1991

Pub Board votes
for new magazine

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

The Publications Board Monday night voted
to create a new monthly news magazine for the
Washington and Lee campus.

The magazine will be funded by student
money, and its editors will be chosen each year
by the Pub Board. It will be ‘‘a magazine with
longer in-depth articles and a clearly defined
opinion section,’’ said Tonya Yoder, Ariel,
editor and Pub Board vice president.

The decision to create a new magazine arose
from an application by The Traveller magazine
to join the Pub Board and be recognized as an
official student publication. The board voted not
to recognize The Traveller, which published its
first two issues last spring as an independent
venture, and instead voted to create the new
magazine.

Debate over The Traveller's application
centered on whether the first two issues showed
a political bias. The Pub Board cannot recog-
nize publications with ‘‘a political or cultural
ideology,’’ according to its constitution.

The charter drawn up by editors of The
Traveller and presented to the board called for
“‘presenting the varied opinions and ideologies
of our community’’ in order to encourage ‘'‘li-
vely debate and tolerance of others’ views.’’

Matt Jackson, an editor of The Traveller,
pointed to the magazine’s ‘‘Point Counter
Point’’ section, which presented two opposing
views on an issue as evidence that the mag-
azine was ‘‘politically neutral.’’ However,
Executive Committee Rep. Josh MacFarland, an
observer at the meeting, said feature articles on

   

‘‘the biased media’’ and animal dissection made
The Traveller look like'‘the archenemy of the
Spectator,’’ an independent conservative mag-
azine.

Heidi Traulsen, Calyx business manager and
Pub Board member, said that regardless of the
editors’ intentions for this year with the new
charter, The Traveller was already ‘‘seen as
liberal by the campus’’ and thus should not be
recognized by the Pub Board. '

After the board voted not to recognize The
Traveller, discussion turned to whether or not
the campus needed a magazine to serve as a
forum for independent opinion or in-depth re-
porting articles. Yoder said she would like to
see a magazine with articles that ‘‘go into more
detail than The Ring-tum Phi’’ in reporting
campus events but which also features ‘‘int-
ellectual debate’’ on two sides of an issue, like
the ‘‘Point Counter Point’’ section of The
Traveller.

Phi editor and Pub Board member Jason
Kelley said that if the board was looking for a
publication with ‘‘a staff of reporters that goes
out to report the news and where people can
write in and express their opinions, then I
submit to you that we already have that in the
Pri

When brought to a vote, Ariel, Calyx, and
Journal of Science voted that there was a need
for a new publication, while the Phi voted no.
The Pub Board will accept proposals for the
format of the new magazine at its meeting
Monday.

The Traveller editor Jackson later said that
“‘what was accomplished was good’’ because
“the fundamental vision of The Traveller is
preserved.’’

eal

Siete uaa

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Taylor Burke places his order with Nancy Hofstetter at the Co-op, which

expands its hours beginning Sunday.

Co-op extends hours

 

By Craig Burke
Assignments Editor

 

Washington and Lee students will soon
have an extra hour to buy late-night snacks.

Starting Nov, 10, the Co-op will close at
midnight Sunday through Thursday for the rest
of fall term, Night Manager Marcy Brown said.

Several students asked W&L Food Services
to keep the Co-op open, because students often
study late in the evening, she said.

The number of people working during the
last hour will be reduced from about six to

three, Brown said.

Many of the Co-op’s student employees
said they are unhappy about the new hours.

“‘T know working an extra hour will hurt
my studies,’’ student employee Nicole May-
field said.

While the grill will close at 11 p.m., cold
sandwiches and snack foods will remain avail-
able, Brown said.

After December break the new hours will
be reviewed, Brown said.

‘*We’ll have to see if we’re making enough
money to offset the extra hour people will have
to work,’’ she said.

 

 

 

Thatcher

 

 

Some fraternities near the end
of the Renaissance line believe
they are now getting the short end

of the renovation stick.

After watching costs climb during Phase I of
the $13.5 million Fraternity Renaissance pro-
gram, these houses say Washington and Lee is
breaking promises in order to meet its budget.

“Initially, LAN RAITT SESE ETE
we were By Thomas Eisenhauer
promised Staff Reporter

$80,000 for

furniture, and at the last meeting, that figure
was cut by more than $10,000,’ Sigma Phi
Epsilon Secretary Matt Hansen said. ‘‘Basic-
ally, Frank Parsons [coordinator of capital
planning] said it was because of the overrun of
costs on houses that have been completed or
are being worked on,’’ Hansen said.

While Hansen said he sympathized with
W&L’s position, Delta Tau Delta Treasurer
Jason Jenkins was less understanding.

Jenkins said the university has instituted a
new standard to save money and make up for
cost overruns in the first phase of the pro-
gram.
“It’s obvious that on the first eight houses
[the university] didn’t have the present attitude
that they would only do what was absolutely

 

 

 

 

   

Photo by Lindsay Coleman, The Ring-tum Phi

 

BESTOS
Me AND LONG

 

to lecture
at VMI

From VMI Public Information

 

 

Margaret Thatcher, Britain’s prime
minister for 12 years, will speak at
Virginia Military Institute on Friday,
Jan. 24.

The HB.
Johnson Distin-
guished Leader-
ship _ Lecture
Series is spon-
soring Tha-
tcher’s visit.

Thatcher
was the first
female head of
government
when she took
office in 1979,
Her administra-

 

Thatcher

necessary,’ Jenkins said. ‘‘It’s a fiscal matter
that they went overbudget on other houses and
now it’s time to cut comers.”’

Phase I of Renaissance ran 10-15 percent
over the original budget, University Treasurer
Lawrence W. Broomall said.

Parsons said this number is normal for a
renovation project. But Broomall said he has
kept a closer eye on spending since Phase I.

 

Photo by Lindsay Coleman, The Ring-tum Phi

tion revamped England’s fiscal poli-
cies and stemmed a spiraling tide of
inflation.

Her concerns about Soviet mili-
tary power earned her the nickname
in Moscow of ‘Iron Lady.”

Beyond invited guests and the
VMI community, free tickets are
available to the general public. Re-
quests for no more than four tickets
may be made with a self-addressed,

“It [the overspending] caused me to person-
ally become more involved in budget control,”’

_) Please see HOUSES page 4

Above: The Pi Kappa Phi house has been vacant since June for
renovation. Re-occupancy is scheduled for September 1992. Left:
A sign posted on the Phi Kappa Psi house warns of health
dangers from asbestos found in the house.

stamped envelope to VMI Public
Relations.

The Johnson lecture series is en-
dowed in memory of H.B. Johnson
Jr., VMI °26, by his son.
Page 2 The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1991

 

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

 

New magazine
has no future

The Publications Board voted Monday to proceed with
plans for a news magazine to serve the Washington and
Lee community, despite a sole vote in opposition from the
Phi. We urge the Pub Board to turn back from this dead-
end course before pouring money into a hopeless cause.

There are several reasons why a new student magazine is
infeasible; notable among them are staff and money needs.

Without underrating our own coverage, it is true that
recruiting staff has been difficult for the Phi. We have the
corer market on journalism majors, and the bulk of our
writing is still done by editors. From our own experience
we know there are not enough students prepared to make a
commitment to regular, consistent, quality reporting. And
even though the proposed news magazine would come out
only monthly, the articles would be more in-depth, requir-
ing even more time each month from reporters than we do.

In fact, the only capable student reporters not working
for the Phi are working for publications with ideological
biases or not working for student publications. If the for-
mer group is recruited for the new magazine, ideological
biases will not be absent in the news coverage, and the
magazine will default in its obligation to ideological neu-
trality, mandated by the Pub Board constitution.

The second big obstacle facing a new publication is
money. The Executive Committee is in no way capable of
funding another publication, especially this year with less
than $400 remaining for allocations. While independent
publications receive a good portion of their money from
donations, an ethical news magazine could not accept dona-
tions. Moreover, since we are in the midst of an advertis-
ing slump, we can safely say the prospects for community
businesses paying for a new publication with their ads are
bleak. Instead, advertising dollars would only be diverted
from other publications, the Phi and sports brochures for
examples, thus putting greater strain on other money sour-
ces, such as the student activities fund.

These factors will become evident if the Pub Board
pursues its current course in attempting to develop a stu-
dent magazine. But we object to the magazine for an even
more fundamental reason: there is no need for it.

The board expects the proposed magazine to cover issues

in greater depth than the Phi. But the Phi devotes propor-
tionally more space to important issues, such as campus
security and Fraternity Renaissance. And these longer, issue
stories are rarely read in full by students, so the in-depth
articles in the proposed magazine will have low readership.
Moreover, there are simply not that many deep issues
facing the campus. Who would read a five-page report on
potentially harmful cleaning fluids used by campus janitors?

Another of the board’s expectations from the magazine is
an opinion section. But the Phi prints every legible opinion
it receives on any issue, and still there are weeks, most in
fact, when there is not enough unsolicited material to fill
the opinion page. Who does the Pub Board expect to write
for the issue-specific opinion forum of the proposed maga-
zine?

The Pub Board representatives of Calyx, Ariel, and Jour-
nal of Science voted in favor of a new publication because
it seemed the American thing to do, a battle for free speech
in any form at any time. What they do not realize is that
there is no need to battle here; free speech already exists.
We do not argue that this campus could benefit from more
independent, ideologically-grounded voices. But a news
magazine under the auspices of the Pub Board does not ac-
complish that goal, is redundant in its purpose, and ul-
timately serves to hurt the student body by spreading money
more thinly.

— JK, PK, CL, CH, JM

Quote of the Week

He looks better than ever.

— Imelda Marcos, while in Hawaii on her way back to the
Philippines, upon seeing her husband’s dead body, preserved
for more than a year

 

OPINION

 

 

 

WHORENER SAIQ OVA

 

   

 

 

MY VIEW
By F. Trent Merchant

 

I applaud this year’s staff of The Ring-tum Phi
for taking definite stands on important issues, but
recently the paper has overstepped the bounds of
fairness and taste in its treatment of Marcus Miller.
This is not a letter from one of Mr. Miller’s close
friends; rather it is a call for an end to the repeat-
ed attempts to destroy the dignity of a member of
the Washington and Lee community.

I do not know what transpired on the night of
August 5, nor is it my place to speculate. I do
know that the police department conducted a hasty
investigation and charges were brought against Mr.
Miller. Subsequently Mr. Miller, the common-
wealth’s attorney and the victim all agreed to a
plea bargain and sentence. Marcus Miller was
convicted of trespassing. Had there been evidence
of attempted rape or sexual assault, surely the
commonwealth’s attorney would have pressed for
conviction on such serious charges. The legal
system has done it job. But, with the hysteria fol-
lowing the recent sexual violence on campus, sev-
eral parties have looked for a scapegoat, and they

Cadet addresses
issue of rape

To the students and faculty of W&L:

The subject which I am about to discuss is
very delicate, yet I feel it needs to be addressed.
It concerns the recent incident between a W&L
woman and a VMI cadet. As a first classman
(senior) at the Virginia Military Institute, I would
like to first and foremost apologize to your entire
student body for this incident. Please understand
that the cadets of VMI are very sensitive to the
subject of rape. We take this matter very serious-
ly and in no way support this violent and aggres-
sive behavior. Finally, please keep in mind that
entire corps can not be responsible for one
individual’s actions. I understand that relations
between our two schools are tense. If anyone has
any suggestions about how we can strengthen our
mutual trust, please contact me or any other
member of the corps of cadets at VMI. Your
advice will be well received.

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley

Cathy Lopiccolo
Courtney Hall

Joshua Manning

Jay Plotkin

Fran Kefalas

Craig Burke

Leigh Allen

Tim Molloy

Associate Editor
News Editor

Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor
Entertainment Editor
Assignments Editor
Photo Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
[2c Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
hut The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
lihel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

Respectfully,
Scott Peterzell
Private First Class

Thomas’ abilities
are not superior

To the Editor:

I apologize for this untimely writing, how-
ever, as I am no longer a student at Washington
and Lee, it takes me just a little longer to receive
my editions of the Phi. 1 would like to comment
on a recent letter concerning Clarence Thomas by
Frank Martien, '92, in the October 17 issue of
The Ring-tum Phi.

Mr. Martien said that ‘‘at a fundamental
level, those in Congress who oppose Thomas
have done so all along on political grounds, and
not for reasons of his lack of capability or
integrity.’’ I strongly disagree that Congressional
opponents of Thomas do not question his capa-
bilities.

To begin with, Thomas is the second young-
est justice ever to sit on the United States Su-
preme Court. The youngest person to sit on the
bench was Justice Douglas. Thomas, to para-
phrase a famous Texan, ain’t no Douglas. In fact,
Thomas has had only three years of experience
in the United States court system, and just one
year sitting as a judge.

The American Bar Association gave Thomas
the minimal rating of ‘‘qualified’’ concerning his
professional ability to serve on the Supreme

 

Paevy SO”

    

|

  
 

 

 

have unjustly found one in Marcus Miller. I am
thoroughly enraged that The Ring-tum Phi, Miss
Rebecca K. Parkins and any others — however
silent — are trying to paint Mr. Miller as a rapist.

The October 17 edition of the Phi was a rag
designed to drag Mr. Miller’s name through the
mud. The inclusion of his name in the front page
article about campus rapes was irresponsible and
unnecessary. It offered nothing to the story; if

Miller was not convicted.
Since when is someone
charged with a crime
automatically guilty?

anything, it detracted from the story because Mr.
Miller did not rape anyone. The corrections section
of the edition, which were no doubt printed in
response to Mr. Miller’s letter in the Phi, was
childish. It was designed to discount Mr. Miller’s
credibility and served as nothing more than a jour-
nalistic ‘‘I got you last!’’

And what about students such as Miss Parkins,
who, not satisfied with the justice of the legal sys-
tem, subscribe instead to the lynch mod mentality.
If ‘‘Marcus Miller is by no means a gentleman,”

LETTERS

Court. Each of the current justices, and 95
percent of all the justices to ever sit on the
Supreme Court, have received the ‘‘highest’’
rating from the ABA. Additionally, the NAACP
rejected Thomas as a suitable nominee; the
ACLU approved him be merely one vote.

Finally, and perhaps most importantly, Tho-
mas’ legal reasoning presents problems. A tho-
rough reading of the articles Thomas wrote about
‘natural law’’ show internal inconsistencies and
faulty logic, not to mention the clear lack of
precedential value these beliefs tender.

Therefore, Mr. Martien, your assertion that
those who oppose Thomas do so on strictly
political grounds is clearly erroneous. The truth
be told, many people still believe that a justice
of the Supreme Court should be a person of
independent intellectual substance, not a puppet
of ideology.

 

 

 

Sincerely,
T. Scott Brisendine, '90

Phi should base
cartoons in fact

To the Editor:

J. MacGregor Tisdale, in his article (October
24), states the obvious: meaning depends on
interpretation and interpretation is indeed ‘‘subj-
ective.’’ However, Tisdale’s interpretation of Tim
Molloy’s recent cartoon is so tendentious and so
feebly argued as to lack all credibility.

For example, he claims that:

‘In my interpretation of the cartoon in ques-
tion, the suitcase full of money represents pos-
sible foul play involving PACs. The inclusion of
Senator Kennedy’s name simply questions the
credibility of the Judiciary Committee member-
ship.”’

Why then is there no mention of PACs any-
where in the cartoon? If the cartoon was truly
intended to be interpreted in this way, it would
have been but a simple matter for Mr. Molloy to
scribble ‘‘PAC $’’ on the suitcase. But Molloy
chose specifically to label it ‘‘package,’’ and
Senator Kennedy is depicted as asking Hill, ‘‘Did
you get my package?’’ Thus, can any reasonable
person doubt that Molloy intended we interpret
the package as being sent by Senator Kennedy
alone?

Further, Tisdale states that:

‘Little was accomplished in determining
Judge Thomas’ ability to interpret the law.
Personal lives and family background have

a

The Phi covered the Miller case un

On, YEAR. THIS AS
Aust yan’.

 

Moo"

fairly

as Miss Parkins asserts in her letter of October 24,
then she is by no means a lady. It is people like
Miss Parkins who truly jeopardize the sense of
honor and trust at Washington and Lee by playing
the roles of both judge and jury when they do not
know all of the facts. It is true that Mr. Miller was
accused of a crime infinitely more terrible than
breaking a window. But the students accused of
breaking windows are window-breakers, God
forbid, and though Mr. Miller was initially charged
with attempted rape, he was not convicted. Since
when is someone charged with a crime automati-
cally guilty?

The recent violent acts on campus have shock-
ed most of us. Some terrible things have happened
here recently but we shouldn’t make it worse by
sensationalizing the story (‘‘Campus in Crisis’
— do you get it, Phi people?) or by destroying
another’s dignity by portraying him as a deviant
(are you listening, Miss Parkins?). It is very easy
to rant and rave when one is angry or afraid, I am
very good at it. But instead of ranting and raving,
and condemning a man for a crime that the legal
system says he did not commit, let us be reason-
able and leave our fellow student alone — he has
been on trial enough.

  

relatively little to do with such ability.”

This is true only up to a point. As the author
rightly claims, ‘‘Oliver Wendell Holmes’ aris-
tocratic background and conservative ideology’’
were indeed irrelevant to his abilities as a Su-
preme Court justice. However, I sincerely hope
that Tisdale is not implying that the charges of
sexual harassment levelled at Thomas were in
any way irrelevant: although I believe them to be
false, it was clearly incumbent upon the Senate
Judiciary Committee to investigate fully any
accusations of illegality raised at Thomas, who
was shortly to be entrusted with the maintenance
of the rule of law.

It is indeed the prerogative of the cartoonist
to speculate on the issues if he so chooses; and
he enjoys, along with all other Americans, the
right to freedom of speech and expression under
the First Amendment. However, no one questions
the prerogative of the newspaper editor to choose
which ‘‘speculations’’ are published and which
are not. Molloy has a right to freedom of ex-
pression, but not to have his views automatically
printed in The Ring-tum Phi. Thus, by question-
ing the judgement of the editors in publishing
Molloy’s cartoon, one does not question Mol-
loy’s right to civil liberties; one simply questions
why such groundless, prejudiced and heavy-
handed (not to mention ineptly-drawn) cartoons
constitute worthy and penetrating satire. Good
satire is always based in fact — Molloy’s cartoon
was not.

Yours etc.,
Alasdair D. McGowan

Local resident
supports gallery

To the Editor:

Recently moving to Lexington, I have visited
the Reeves Center and found it to be outstand-
ing. It incorporates a fantastic collection housed
creatively while maintaining a cultural and
learning center.

Without exception, the proposed Watson
Center will compliment the Reeves Center as
well as be an outstanding addition to the W&L
campus.

I wonder if Mr. Chapman has ever taken the
opportunity to actually visit the Reeves Center to
tour the exhibits and talk to the dedicated staff.

It would be a vital loss to W&L, and the
Lexington community as a whole, if the proposed
Watson Center has to relocate elsewhere.

Sincerely,
Ralph Benson

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1991

Coach Leslie
out of hospital

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee Golf Coach
Emmett G. ‘‘Buck’’ Leslie, spent five
days in the Roanoke Rehabilitation
Center late last month due to a slight
relapse from an earlier operation.

Leslie,
diagnosed with
chronic __leuk-
emia last year,
left the hospital
Saturday, Oc-
tober 26 but
will not coach
the remainder
of this term.

**T feel a lot
better, about a
million times better than I did at the
beginning of last week,’’ Leslie said
Friday.

Leslie missed the first month of
fall term , but returned to coach golf
Oct. 7 after recovering from an Aug-
ust operation to remove his spleen.

Subway
coming to
Lexington

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

Lesile

 

 

Lexington is getting a Subway,
but not the underground-train type
you'd find in New York City.

The Subway in Lexington will be
part of the nationwide Subway fast-
food chain specializing in submarine
sandwiches.

According to Tom Godwin, co-
owner of the store being built in
Lexington, Subway is currently the
fastest-growing fast-food franchise in
the country.

‘The reason we picked Lexington
to open a new location is that it is
one of the only areas with a, large
number of university students that has
no Subway,’’ Godwin said. ‘‘Subway
tends to be very successful with
college students...and we might even
run an exclusive delivery service to
W&L and VMI.”’

Godwin said even when the
schools are not in session, the tour-
ism in Lexington should aid in year-
round success for the restaurant.

Godwin’s family already owns one
Subway location in Stuarts Draft, just
southeast of Staunton. He said if the
Lexington store is successful, they
might consider opening another Sub-
way in Buena Vista.

The Lexington Subway, which
will be located between McDonald’s
and the ABC Store, has been under
construction for five weeks and
should be completed this month,
Godwin said.

‘We would like to open the store
the Friday after Thanksgiving if the
construction remains on schedule,’’ he
said.

Kerry Cuneo, ’92L, Denville,

N.J. — ‘'There’s only a bridge
between us, but we're experienc-
ing two different worlds.’’

 

 

 

a

rm
=

—- |

 

The purpose of the summer opera-
tion was to stop his body from dest-
roying its red blood cells. But it was
not completely successful, Leslie said.
While he lost the blood cells at a
slower pace, he said he still felt tired.

“Tt felt like I was a car running
out of gas,’’ Leslie said.

Leslie said he is taking medicine
his doctors believe will solve the
immediate problem.

Chronic leukemia affects the bo-
dy’s production of both red and white
blood cells, leaving the person ex-
tremely susceptible to infection. The
disease is treatable with medication
and mild forms of chemotherapy.

“If you have to have leukemia,
that’s to one to have,’’ Leslie said.

Leslie said he hopes to back in
January, at which time he said he
hopes his leukemia will be in remis-
sion.

‘‘From time to time I may have
some recurring problems, but I’m
optimistic about it,’’ Leslie said. ‘My
doctor is also optimistic about it. You
can’t ask for more than that.’’

 

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Ivy Johnson looks on as the Polish ambassador
to the United Nations, Dr. Robert Mroziewicz, talks with
students Monday at a reception sponsored by the Internation-
al Club and the Foreign Affairs Club.

 

 

Student housing shortage
expected, city realtors say

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

The market for student rentals in Lexington this year
is tight and is likely to get tighter due to new zoning
restrictions.

Some Lexington realtors say that, like last year, there
are very few vacancies and they expect that number to go
down as houses which can now hold four people must
reduce that number to three.

‘‘We have one vacancy now where as last year we
didn’t have any,”’ said Mike Flint, an agent at Mays Real
Estate.

Pat Randolph, who handles student rentals for Herring
Real Estate, said she has ‘‘just one building left’’ with
vacancies left for this year.

At Baker Real Estate, Scott Baker said he has ‘‘quite
a few vacancies’ compared with last year, a situation he
attributes to the. Fraternity Renaissance ‘‘pulling people
out of the rental market’’ since more. people can live in
the fraternity houses. :

Most of the realtors say they think a recently passed
zoning ordinance which reduces the number of unrelated
people who can live together from four to three will

 

 

create a housing crunch, filling up the vacancies that have
been created by Renaissance.

‘*Personally, I think it will have the reverse effect of
city council’s intention. It will make the housing shortage
more intense,’’ Baker said.

‘‘Where there are four people now there will have to
be three. One person is going to have to find somewhere
else to go,’’ Randolph said.

Lexington City Councilman Sidney Brown said the
effect of the new ordinances ‘‘upon actual student housing
will be minimal.’’

The main purpose of the ordinance is to restrict city
council from granting permits in the future to allow more
than three unrelated people from living together.

However, Brown said the new law would have an
effect on current student housing.

‘‘Houses which currently have four people are only
grandfathered for as long as there are actually four people
there,’ Brown said. He said that once fewer than four
people live in a house, there. can. never be more than
three people again.

At the Oct.. 17 city council meeting, Mayor H.E. *‘B-
uddy’’ Derrick responded to concerns that the the or-
dinance would cut down the number of available houses
saying that vacancies in the city are abundant.

Executive Committee
appoints FD chairmen

 

interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

“7

Vallotton

 
   

By Maureen Levey
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Activities Board has
named Elizabeth Vallotton, Lanie
Merryweather and Louis Perkins to
head the Fancy Dress Steering
Committee.

FD Chairman Elizabeth Vallotton
said Fancy Dress will be later this
year, on March 27, due to the date of
Mock Convention three weeks earlier.

Vallotton praised the previous FD
Chairman John Flippen for his

excellent job in organizing and
managing people.

‘‘My personal goal this year is
not to exceed John’s level of
organization, but to at least attain it,”’
Vallotton said. ‘‘If I can do that,
then the rest will take care of itself.”

According to FD Auditor Lanie
Merryweather, this year’s goal budget
is $55,000-$60,000, with the biggest
expense allotted for the bands.

Vice-Chairman Louis Perkins will
not only be assisting Vallotton, but is
also taking charge of all supply
orders.

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

 

Page 3
Skeet Shoot International
Delta Tau Delta is sponsoring a All students interested in par-
3-man skeet tournament on Nov.  ticipating in the International

16 at 1 p.m. to benefit the United
Way. All birds and ammunition
will be supplied. The cost is $30
per team and prizes will be
awarded, For any questions or to
enter, contact Chris Barker at
463-2795.

SAB Concert

Come hear the Megaphonics on
Nov. 13 in the Pit at 9 p.m.
Admission is $2.

Republicans

The College Republicans will
meet on Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. in
Room 221 of the Commerce
School.

ACLU

The W&L Chapter of the ACLU
will have a meeting for the
bicentennial of the Bill of Rights
on Nov, 12 at 7 p.m. in the Fair-
fax Lounge. The W&L commun-
ity is welcome.

Basketball

Anyone interested in helping out
the men’s basketball team as an
administrative  assistant/manager
can get in touch with Coach
Canfield at 463-8670.

Politics Heat

Fahrenheit 451, the third fall
1991 Politics Filmfest presenta-
tion, is scheduled for Nov. 13 at
4 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

Be a Host

The Admissions Office is now
accepting applications for fresh-
man housing hosts. Any freshmen
interested in hosting prospectives
in their rooms during winter and
spring term needs to pick up an
application from the Admissions
Office. Applications are due Nov.
6. Interviews for selected applica-
tions will be conducted in early
January. Call the Admissions
Office at 463-8710 if you have
any questions.

, Work Abroad

Students wanting a unique way to
build their resume with interna-
tional experience while having the
opportunity to live and travel in
cultures are turning to the Work
Abroad program. This program is
open to students who are 18 years
of age or older and enrolled full-
time in a U.S. college or univer-
sity. The only cost to students is
the program fee of $125 and
airfare to their destination. For
more information, write the Coun-
cil on International Education
Exchange, WA-R, 205 E. 42nd
St., New York, NY 10017 or call
212-661-1414 ext. 1130.

Scholars

Freshmen and sophomores inter-
ested in joining University Scho-
lars should speak to Prof. Evans
in his Payne Hall office during
the next 10 days.

Club’s Annual Pot Luck Dinner
should attend the club meeting on
Tuesday, Nov. 12 at 7 p.m. in the
I-house den, Lee Ave.

About China

The International Club will pre-
sent a lecture and slide show
‘‘Taken by Surprise: Our Impres-
sions of Shanghai’ by Profs.
John and Gwen Handelman this
evening, Nov. 7, in Northen Aud-
itorium. They will discuss their
impressions of China after spend-
ing the summer in Shanghai. A
reception will follow.

Teaching

Students interested in a teacher
certification program can meet
next week with Dr. James Mc-
Crory of the Education Depart-
ment at Mary Baldwin College.
McCrory will meet with students
in the Fairfax Lounge on Nov. 14
from 10 a.m to 12 p.m. He will
answer questions regarding cour-
sework, scheduling, and certifica-
tion requirements.

Phi Eta Sigma

Members of Phi Eta Sigma may
contact Dean Boetsch regarding
information on scholarship oppor-
tunities. The society offers $2000
awards to seniors who are going
to graduate schools and $1000
awards to eligible undergraduates.

Sigma Delta Chi

Those interested in joining the
Society of Professional Journalists,
Sigma Delta Chi, should call Prof.
Brian Richardson at 463-8430 or
Pamela Kelley at 464-5264 soon.
Members should see the SPJ
bulletin board on the third floor
of Reid Hall to select a meeting
time.

German Lecture

The Department of German and
Russian will sponsor a lecture by
Dr, Donald..H. Crosby, professor
of German at the University of
Connecticut, on Nov. 19 at 8 p.m.
in Northen Auditorium. The topic
of the speech is ‘‘Irrational En-
counters: E.T.A. Hoffman and the
Fantastic in German Literature.”’

New Mag

Anyone with ideas for a new
student news magazine should see
the Publications Board ad on page
5 of this Ring-tum Phi.

Pub Board

Reminder, and you know who
you are, the Publications Board
will meet Monday, Nov.11 at 8
p.m. in The Ring-tum Phi office.
Be there!

Jameson Leonardi compiled

General Notes.

 

What do you think W&L undergrads should know

about Law School students?

Bobby Majumder, ’93L, Mor-

gantown, W.Va. —

us are goobs.’’

**Not all of

 

 

 

 

Peebles Harrison, ’92L, McKen-
ney, Va. — ‘‘We're goobs. We
are truly goobs.’’

Laurie Winkler, ’93L, Flanders,
N.J. — ‘‘We have more fun
than they think we do.”’

Jef Fagan, ’92L, Baltimore, Md.

- ‘‘Remember that we all went
to undergrad too....at least some
of us aren't goobs.”’

Melissa Amos, ’92L,
Va, «= ‘‘A lot of us are in dif-
ferent stages in our lives, so we
can’t always appreciate how foot-

Roanoke,

loose and fancy free under-

graduates can be.”’

 

 
Page 4

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1991

 

 

University cuts corners, turns deaf ear, houses claim

 

HOUSES

from page 1

 

Broomall said. ‘‘] had to devote more
time to the process and ask more
questions to make sure I could justify
everything we did.

“I’ve created an extra step just in
the last few months,’’ Broomall said.
“I felt it was necessary to insert
myself in the process to make the
determination that the plan fit with
the intent of the programs, that there
weren’t any unnecessary extras in
there.’’

Among the ‘‘extras’’ felled by
Broomall’s budget ax were planned
improvements to Delta Tau Delta’s
basement. Delt House Manager Pat-
rick McCabe said the university re-
versed itself three days after agreeing
to a ‘‘final plan’’ for the house on
Sept. 30.

The Sept. 30 blueprints called for
basement improvements such as an
expanded party room, a new bar and
a new television lounge.

On the main floor, the Sept. 30
plans called for a wall to be extended
and the fireplace moved to create a
separate living room.

The school’s revised plan cut out
all these additions.

“The university explained that
they would not do anything that’s not

 

 

Broomall

absolutely necessary,’’ McCabe said.

He said the fraternity voted to
disapprove the school’s changes, but
the university has kept its position.

‘Basically, they’re adding a bath-
room,’’ McCabe said.

Broomall said that after inspecting
the Delt house he decided that the
proposed alterations were not needed.

“Unfortunately, in the basement
they had — to me — one of the best-
defined party areas,’’ Broomall said.
‘‘Thinking about cost, I didn’t know
what we were gaining by altering a
space already so well defined. It was
agreed that it wasn’t the intent of the
program to change spaces that are
already functional.’’

‘It all comes down to the dol-
lar,’’ Parsons said. ‘‘We could meet
the standards without spending that
much money.

‘The first goal of Renaissance is
to try to bring each house up to the
standards set by the IFC,’’ Parsons
said. ‘‘Secondly, we try to maintain
the individual character of each
house.”’

But this change in the planning
process is unfair to the fraternities in
the later stage of Renaissance, Jen-
kins said.

‘If you walk through the Phase I
houses, it’s obvious their criteria
wasn’t only what was absolutely
necessary to bring them up to stan-
dard,’’ Jenkins said.

Broomall said the aims of Renais-
sance have not changed since Phase
I.

‘‘The action I’ve inserted is con-
sistent with the program’s intent,’’ he
said.

‘{The houses] weren’t equal to
begin with and we’re not trying to
make them equal,’’ Parsons said.
‘‘We’re just trying to bring them up
to standard.”’

Broomall agreed, and said the
university is only trying to avoid
mistakes made in Phase I.

‘*There were a number of deci-
sions made by the contractor [in
Phase I] without our consent,’’ Broo-
mall said. ‘‘We had to remind them
that quality had to be achieved, but

 

 

Photo by Lindsay Coleman, The Ring-tum Phi

The Kappa Alpha house on Nelson Street will be renovated in the last phase of the Renaissance
pregren. Members were able to use the house until Rush vee completed this year.

rere Ota

ee reer onaae no nansieannta mene aman snamnnnenr ewomnn ara brcuanaramtmata

 

HARRIS TEETER MEANS

 

LOW PRICES!

 

 

iit
Py AI

70¢

PER LB.

Limit 5 Lbs. With
Additional Purchase

 

 

TT
SAVE

30¢

fd

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

not at any price.

“The first couple of houses might
have gotten some extras out of the
contractor that might not have flown
now,’’ Broomall said.

But the president of one of those
Phase I houseslso questioned the way
the university implemented the frat-
ernity’s suggestions.

“It’s hard not to be satisfied [with
Renaissance] because the difference
between living in the new and the
old house is like night and day,”’
said Beta Theta Pi President Kevin
Bauer. ‘‘But at the same time we
would have liked to have certain
amenities.”’

For example, Beta had trouble
getting | furniture and decorations
which it felt fit the house, said
Bauer.

‘The interior decorators had vis-
ions of the house which weren't
exactly our\ vision, and _ things
generally went their way until the
house mother came in,’’ Bauer said.
‘*But alumni are now donating some
money, so slowly it is becoming the
house we want it to be.

‘Looking back, I'd, say probably
about 70 percent of the time the
university was just listening to us and
not following our advice,’’ Bauer
said,

Another fraternity president, Lam-
bda Chi Alpha’s Shane Kimzey, said
the university agreed to build a stor-
age room for ritual equipment but
didn’t.

“We specifically asked for a
space to store ritual equipment,’’
Kimzey said. ‘‘On our last copy of
the plans, there is a big space labeled
‘storage,’ and we were led to believe
we'd be able to use it.

‘‘When they finished the house we
found [the storage room] was for jan-
itorial supplies, and it's [now] emp-
ty".

Kimzey said the university is
building a space for ritual equipment
now but hasn’t addressed the house’s
lack of overall storage space.

Kimzey also said Lambda Chi has
not received a basketball court and
porch swings the school promised.

Pi Kappa Phi, presently under
construction, saw all its rooms, in-
cluding the president's suite, changed
to doubles to hold more brothers plus
the house mother, said Pi Phi Vice

 

 

SS —

  

;
a

proposed bar jafo ri
Sowa fie. / |

on of a

poo

 

 

 

Li g—pijiiit

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Delta Tau Delta agreed with the university on these “final”
basement plans on Sept. 30. Three days later the university
dropped the expanded party room and new bar from the plans.

President Cary Potts. Still, many fraternity members

“The house mother’s apartment is
knocking out our favorite room, but
we couldn’t get around it,’’ Potts
said. He said the university was coo-
perative throughout the process.

And despite some complaints from
other houses, several fraternity men
agreed with Potts.

Sigma Chi President Charles Ed-
wards said the school has cooperated
completely with his fraternity.

“Throughout the whole process
we've been aware they’re under fin-
ancial constraint, so we didn’t ask for
anything they’d have reason to turn
down,’’ Edwards said.

“‘They really haven’t shot down
anything we felt stongly about,’’ he
said.

questioned the power the university
gave them in designing their own
houses.

‘We were asked our opinion and
they made note of it and then made
changes without our knowledge,”’ Bill
Donnelly, a Lambda Chi junior said.

Parsons said that while he sym-
pathizes with fraternities that believe
they got short-changed, the university
can financially only do so much to
the houses.

‘There has to be some point
where we say, ‘This is it, if you
want to change it, change it on your
own time and with your own mo-
ney,’ '’ Parsons said. ‘‘And those
changes have to be approved by the
university.’’

 

 

11.5 Oz.

Folgers Special
Roast Coffee

19

Viva
Paper Towels

62
Pe

  

   
  

wy
wy

 

 

 

 

 

*REDUCED*
SAVE

a Al

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prices Effective Through November 12, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, November 12, 1991. In Lexington Store Only,
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 
The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1991

lt

W&LIFE

 

—_—

a ee

 

 

me

: Ss TOP

~

 

 

 

 

 

By B.J. Gamboa, The Ring-tum Phi ea aaeecaacaee >. z 7

Page 5

 

 

Theater group tackles a critical issue

 

By Fran Kefalas
Entertainment Editor

 

No.

That’s all it should take, but that’s not reality.
Acquaintance rape is an actuality that everyone
must face.

On Monday, Nov. 11 the Health Education
Committee is sponsoring a play about acquaintance
rape called But I Said No. The production will be
presented by Offstage Theatre, a non-profit
organization based in Charlottesville.

The play is the brain child of Margaret Baldwin
and Doug Grissom. The Charlottesville Sexual
Assault Resource Agency approached Grissom last
September about using one of his plays for their
Tape awareness week. Grissom felt that the
production they inquired about was not suitable and
contacted Baldwin to collaborate on a new
production,

Baldwin said ‘‘we didn’t really know what was
going to happen with the play.’’ She added that the
play evolved from its original form as stage
readings into a full production last May.

Baildwin said the play consists of a ‘‘series of
monologues and voices. It’s not your typical play.’’

Associate Dean of Students and Counselor of
Psychology Anne Schroer-Lamont said that the
Opportunity to present the play came at a very
appropriate time.

‘For every stranger rape there are 10-20
acquaintance rapes,’’ said Schroer-Lamont. She
added that this is a subject that people need to be

” it Sn okt HA de I o<. “ti eT Rey

i OT aa. e

Riga
5 PALO

teal

November Specials
Sundays, rent 2 movies,

(of equal or lesser value)

Foreign and War movies 99°
New Movies This Week:

Mortal Thoughts
What About Bob?
Backdraft
Guilty By Suspicion
Silence of the Lambs

Check Out Our New Stock of T-Shirts

and Trading Cards
Stonewall Square

 

 

audciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
MONSTER OPTONICA
KEF cwDd
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

RARER

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

Q
2

For

Your
Gala

QS

Dkifloa :
463-9841

Ten East Nelson * Lexington

>
SD TE ET aN

2

 

 

   

aware of.

Schroer-Lamont said she ‘‘hopes the production
will attract upperclassmen as well as freshmen,”’
but she is afraid the subject will keep male viewers
away.

‘It’s not about male-bashing,’’ said Schroer-
Lamont. She added that it’s important for men to
see this play to help them understand what a rape
victim goes through because ‘‘in the recovery
process for any assault or rape victim men play an
important role. The victims need to be held and
cared for by a man they can trust.’’

“twe’ve had reactions from men who came with
their guard up, expecting to be bashed, and left
feeling that it was fair,’’ said Baldwin.

‘It’s not just a woman’s issue it’s a man’s
issue as well,’’ she said. ‘‘It’s important to create
a dialogue between men and women.’’

But I Said No consists of six performers, each
playing many characters telling different stories. It
allows the viewer to hear the voices of the
survivors, the assailants, and family members and
friends of the survivors. Audience members are
encouraged to identify their own feelings, attitudes,
and cultural stereotypes regarding acquaintance
rape.
Baldwin said that acquaintance rape is not a
clear cut issue, and by presenting many different
stories more people can relate to what is being
said.

‘‘There’s one section that deals a lot with the
myths of rape,’’ said Baldwin. She added that
“‘some sections are real rapid fire.’’

The play will start at 8 p.m. in the Keller

»

Theater of the Lenfest Center and will last
approximately 45 minutes. After the presentation
the company, some of whom are volunteers or staff
members of SARA will hold a discussion.

The discussion will be lead by Bambi Chapin,
a SARA staff member. All of the performers have
gone through an intensive one week sexual assault
training program.

The Health Education Committee has also
invited the V.M.I cadets, Southern Seminary
students and Lexington High School students to
view the production.

Sophomore Matt Hansen, the student in charge
of coordinating the events for the play, said ‘‘the
health education committee sees the play as having
a lot of potential good.”’

Margaret Baldwin is a graduate of the
University of Virginia and has written for and
performed in regional, community, university, and
children’s theater. Doug Grissom is head of
playwriting in the drama department at the
University of Virginia and is co-founder and co-
artistic director of Offstage Theater.

But I Said No is directed by Richard Warner, a
member of the acting and directing faculty of UVa.

According to Schroer-Lamont the production
has been staged at campuses all over the country
and was recommended highly by students who
have seen it elsewhere.

The Offstage Theatre Company is a non-profit
organization base in Charlottesville. When asked if
the company would be dealing with any other
controversial issue, Baldwin said, ‘‘Offstage is
open to anything that comes up.”’

 

 
   
   
     
    
 

get 1
FREE

 

 

463-9800

WILLSON-|
WALKER
HOUSE m.,

Resiaurani

Reservations are recommended
Lunch 11:30-2:30

30 N, Main St., Lexington

 
 
   
 

 

aM tou
CS PE

 

Dinner 5:30-9:00

   
 

463-3020

 

 

ROARS IIIS III IIIT IIT AIT AIA IA

TGIF

Outlet Stores

30 S. Main Street
R.E. Lee Building
9:30-5:30, Mon.-Sat.

463-9730

50-80% Savings on Nationally Advertised

Catalog Brands

SIDI IO IO IPA, Bosker # Paul Mitchel SSchj eee RR RRR IR Ee Re
* we lan “

Ne

          
    

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane

463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

 

 

 

 

 

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

"20% Discount on all

non-sale items to students”

(703) 463-1620

11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
VISA, MC, AMEX

  

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

RRA RARER

fulfilled by existing publications.

Board Constitution

Publications Board.”

 

 

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 1 7
1 Rodents
5 More ignoble
10 Tahoe or
Superior
14 Beige
15 The upper crust
16 Absent
17 Fly
18 Shot in billiards
19 Edible fish
20 Long-haired
cat
22 Prickly plants
24 Lively dance
27 Twosome
28 Yelled
31 Make aware
35 The upper crust
36 Flaring stars
38 — in the sky
39 Precipitation
40 Actor Ritchard
41 Hit
42 Sothern the

10 |11

12 «#113

 

actress
43 Spinet
44 Driller © i i vices, In
45 Bother ‘A Rights Reserved 11/07/91
47 Place of great Last Week’s Answers :
wealth 9 Corrective
49 Catchall abbr. 10 ‘The — the
50 Cow Mohicans”
51 A marsupial 11 Missing soldier
55 Association 12 Cabbage
59 Stake 13 Peepers
60 Slander's cousin 21 Go from place to
63 Singing voice place
64 Commedia 23 Melody
dell’ — 25 Where Nairobi is
65 Sharp 26 Decorated
66 Roster 28 Discard
67 Wanton look 29 Hoisting
68 Stormed device
69 Raison d'— 30 Means of
restraint
DOWN 32 Musical work
1 Flat-topped hill 33 Angered
2 Image 34 Subway in 11/07/91
3 Rugged rock Paris
4 German or 37 Stringed 46 Bed canopy 56 Manner of
Italian e.g. instrument 48 Blunted walking
5 Soothe 40 Leaflet 51 Iridescent 57 Superpower
6 Chicken — king 41 Small TV mineral letters
7 Knight's 43 Animal 52 Tiny opening 58 Punta del —
title buddies 53 Bone: pref. 61 Insect
8 School jacket 44 Ossicle 54 Isinglass 62 Summer: Fr.

 

 

 

 

x The Right >

| 5 ey

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

New & Recommended

A personal selecton of Wayne Terwilliger. Newcomb Hall Bookstore, Chariutiesvile, VA

The Witching Hour, by Anne Rice. (Ballantine, $14.00.)
Grand saga as much about love as alchemy,
family secrets as the occult

Haroun and the Sea of Stories, by Salman Rushdie.

(Penguin, $8.95.) Haroun, a 12-year-old boy sets out on an adventure
to rescue his father and return to him the precious gift of gab.
Home Before Dark, by Susan Cheever. (Bantam, $10.00.)

Moving chronicle of John Cheever's success and failures as a son,

ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS/NA TIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES

 

 

 

SERVIGTAR.
LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 South Main St., Lexington, VA 24450 463-2242

Deavers Alley Business Services

TERM PAPERS

Typed
Resumes, Cover Letters & Envelopes
Laser Printing and FAX Service

203 N. Main Street
463-9455

 

 
 
 
 

   
       
   
 
      
     
 

  

703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450

NOTICE

 

The Publications Board wants to form a monthly student magazine that will
include balanced, in-depth, journalistic reporting and a clearly labeled opinion
section. The board will accept proposals for the proposed magazine at a special
meeting on Monday, Nov. 11 at 8 p.m. in The Ring-tum Phi office, University
Center 208. A proposal on Monday must include a written mission statement and
a proposed operating budget for two trial issues (see below); other requirements
for formal recognition (see below) may be worked out in detail after the board
accepts a proposal for consideration. Note, however, that the board will have full
discretion in choosing chief editors and, if necessary, a business manager for the
new publication, as provided for in the Pub Board constitution.

The following are the procedures for Pub Board recognition of a new
student publication, from the Pub Board constitution:

“1. The Publications Board will not recognize any proposed or existing publication which states and/or

demonstrates a political or cultural ideology. Whether or not a publication has a particular ideology shall be determined
b’’ a majority vote of the Publications Board members.

“2. A proposed publication must fulfill the following minimum criteria to the satisfaction of the Publications
Board in order to be considered for recognition:

“a. A written mission statement for proposed publication
“b. A demonstration of how the publication would fulfill a campus need which is not or cannot be

“c. A proposed operating budget for the first two issues, included wherein: proposed size (no. of

 

pages, frequency of publications), list of contracted advertisers and other financial contributors [here, a list of advertisers
with evidence of their intent to advertise will be acceptable; contributions must be within ethical journalistic guidelines},
printing costs, roster of editors and staff members, proposed topics, story ideas.
“d. Upon fulfillment of these criteria, as determined by the Publications Board, the publication will
be granted 50 percent of operating costs, not to exceed $500 per preliminary issue
“3, As a result of this grant, two consecutive issues must be completed in one academic year, produced on
deadlines determined in advance by mutual consent of the Publications Board and the publication
“4, Upon fulfillment of items 2 and 3 above, to the satisfaction of two-thirds of the Publications Board
members, recognition will be granted. Until the publication fulfills these criteria, recognition will not be granted
“5. Recognition by the Publications Board grants the publication the following
“a. Full voting membership to the Publications Board, as described in the bylaws of the Publications

“b. Notification of the Executive Committee of the recognition of the new publication by the

 

core eee ea ea ers ss

eee
 

This week’s scores:
Cross Country - (M&W) at Eastern Mennonite
Football - Bridgewater 29, W&L 7
Soccer(M) - L- VWC 1-0, L- VMI 2-0
Soccer(W) - L- Roanoke 2-1 (OT)
Volleyball - W-R-MWC 15-2, 15-0, 15-2

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

Next week’s games:
Cross Country - M&W ODAC meet
Football - vs. Guilford
Volleyball - ODAC tourney at MBC
Water Polo - Eastern Regionals at Providence
Wrestling - Sun. in VMI Inviational

 

Water Polo - Southern Conference Tourney

 

 

Sports

 

 

 

 

PAGE 6

 

By Andrew Fox
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington & Lee water
polo team secured the eighth seed in
the Eastern Championships after an
impressive showing at the Southern
Conference Tournament this past
weekend at Dayton.

Despite having to play four
matches in two days, the Generals
were able to maintain a high level of
play in victories over Hampden-Syd-
ney, Richmond, and Dayton. The
only loss was to eventual champion
Arkansas-Little Rock.

In the first match of the tourna-

Harriers set to
run for ODAC
championships

By Jacob Kimball
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country team
finished the regular season ready to
make their respective runs at the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference titles.

The men’s team notched three
ODAC wins in the meet held at
Easterm Mennonite, beating Hamp-
den-Sydney, Bridgewater, and host
EMC to finish an undefeated 6-0 in
conference and 8-1 overall.

The women split with EMC and
Mary Baldwin but got a moral vic-
tory when two injured runners re-
tured to action.

Junior Bo Hannah finished first
overall in a time of 26:36 followed
by senior Charles Edwards who
finished second overall in 27:22.

Leading the women were Kim
Herring and Nicole Casteel; both
surpassed W&L’s record time on the
EMC course as Herring finished
second overall in 20:17 and Casteel’s
21:02 placed her fourth overall.

Senior Jodi Herring was in action
for the first time since early in the
season. Her return should aid the
Generals in their attempt to repeat as
ODAC champions.

Heading into the ODAC meet, the
women hope to be healthy as they
defend their title, and Hannah said
the men will follow their seasonlong
philosophy.

‘We are not going to worry about
any other team, but rather concentrate
on running the best that we can,’’ he
said, ‘If we run how we are capable
of running, we will win.”

   

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

OGG GG OGG GGG GG

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ®Perfumes

Charge Accounts

 

 

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, WATER POLO

Polo qualifies for Easterns

ment W&L and Hampden-Sydney met
for the third time in two weeks with
relatively little change in the out-
come. The Generals jumped to a 10-
2 halftime lead as sophomore Greg
Golub exploded for three goals in the
first quarter, and W&L rode out the
tide for a 17-6 win.

“‘The H-SC game allowed us to
adjust to the officiating and atmo-
sphere of the tournament before head-
ing into our tough matches,’’ said
head coach Page Remillard.

After the offensive explosion in
game one, W&L relied on the de-
fense against Richmond. Goalie P.J.
Waicus was outstanding in the net
with eight blocks while seniors Alan
Herrick and John Kannapell combined

Generals spike R-MWC

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee vol-
leyball ran off 33 consecutive points
over the course of three games to
rout Randolph-Macon Woman's Col-
lege in the first round of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference tourna-
ment.

The Generals tamed the Wildcats
in three straight games 15-2, 15-0,
15-2 to advance to the next round on
Friday at Mary Baldwin.

‘*We played well as a team,”’ said
head coach Susan Dittman. ‘‘They’re
a poor team, but we played well and

for nine steals in the 10-8 win.

The final two matches of the
tournament against Arkansas-Little
Rock and Dayton posed the greatest
test for the Generals. Against Arkan-
sas, W&L squeaked to a 5-4 halftime
lead thanks to two goals by senior
Will Davis. Despite playing the Tro-
jans even in the third quarter, the
Generals failed to score in the fourth
quarter and lost 11-9.

However, the scoring drought did
not carry over to the Dayton match.
Davis and Chris Hagge each scored
three goals to outscore the Flyers 11-
9. On defense, Waicus frustrated the
Dayton offense with 19 blocks, eight
of which came on man up scoring
opportunities.

blew them away.

‘‘Throughout the season, we’ve
had one player carry us. Last night
everyone came together.”’

The Generals led 6-0 in the first
game before R-MWC scored. The
Generals didn’t allow another point
until it was 9-0 in the third game.

W&L closed out the second game
when senior Mena McGowin ham-
mered down a spike and senior Mar-
cy Brown served an ace and an un-
returnable serve. The 15-0 win was
W&L’s first ever shut out win.

W&L’s balanced team attack was
led by McGowin’s six kills. Brown
and junior Leslie Hess each had five
kills and four service aces. Junior

The Eastern Championships will
be held this weekend at Brown Univ-
ersity in Providence, Rhode Island.
The field of teams includes Slippery
Rock, Princeton, Navy, Iona, Brown,
and Bucknell. Though the Generals
are considered the underdog, intimida-
tion will not be a factor.

‘*We are not making the trip with
the intention of losing a game,’’ said
Remillard. ‘‘We are not intimidated
and definitely are not foreign to this
tournament. If opponents don’t res-
pect us we will win.”’

W&L’s best finish in the Eastern
Championships was fifth place in
1985.

to advance

B.J. League handed out 21 assists.

‘We finally showed the potential
of what we could be,’’ said Dittman.
‘‘T was impressed with our concentra-
tion. We didn’t let down. That’s the
first time all year we’ve shown a
killer instinct.”’

W&l will need the killer instinct
again on Friday. The Generals take
on the top seed and regular season
champion Guilford at 2 p.m.

‘‘We’re on a mission to prove
that we aren’t as bad as our record
(11-20) indicates,’’ Dittman - said.
‘*‘We’ll need to play to 100 percent
of our potential to win, but stranger
things have happened.”’

 

SOCCER NOTEBOOK

 

By Sarah Gilbert
Staff Reporter

 

What is it about the Roanoke
women’s soccer team?

For the third time in as many
meetings, the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team lost to
Roanoke by one goal in post-
regulation play, this time in a
battle at Lynchburg for the right
to play in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference championship
game.

“The problem we had against
Roanoke was the same problem
we had all year,’’ said coach
Janine Hathorn of the '2-1 loss.
‘“‘We couldn’t put the ball in the
goal, and if you don’t score, you
can’t win.’’

 

Junior Susan Moseley scored
the lone goal, and sophomore
goalie Kate Stimeling came up
with 19 saves.

 

ee ER CAN EH I
By Sean O’Rourke
Staff Reporter

There is an old adage that
says close but no cigar. The
Washington and Lee men’s soccer
team will look back on the final
two games of the 1991 season
and think of that adage.

In the semifinals of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
tournament, the took the third-
ranked team in Division III to the
limit, losing a 1-0 heartbreaker to
Virginia Wesleyan.

“We played a real tough
game,’’ said head coach Rolf

Piranian. ‘‘We played as hard as
we could and we had some great
chances.’’

The Generals had to regroup
quickly from the tough loss to
take on VMI. It was another
tough loss for the Generals as
they fell to the Keydets 2-0.

The team had, however, a
number of chances that they
couldn’t convert into goals.

Piranian hit on one major rea-
son for the lack of offense.

“We didn’t develop team
chemistry this year. Injuries were
that main factor. We just kept
shuffling the line-up. Plus, we
were missing two vital players in
Mike Mitchem and Chase Davis
for most of the year.”’

With the two losses, the Gen-
erals finished the season with an
8-6-2 record.

 

 

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satin shoes dyed in 1 hr.

   
      
 

464-6666

© Free Delivery

 

 

 

eo

 

BANNERS °« FLYERS ¢ INVITATIONS
NEWSLETTERS

PHONE: 463-1712 + FAX #: 463 - 6918
125 W. NELSON ST. +» LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA + ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

 

 

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
J Jansport day packs and book ba

Lexington Bike

130 S. Main St.

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

Shop

463-7969

 

The Beauty Bar

1S9 S. MAIN Sr.
463-2886
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT

 

 

   
 
 

 

Shoes
Clothing

Accessories
23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

  
 
 

 

 

 

FALL WEEKEND

at

 

November 7, 1991

 

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Bridgewater’s Tim Runion breaks up a pass in the end zone
intended for W&L’s William Propst. Runion’s three interceptions
helped the Eagles top the Generals 29-7 last Saturday.

In smokescreen, BC
tops Generals 29-7

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

Despite a large Parents’ Weekend
tumout at smoky Wilson Field, the
Washington and Lee football team
fell to Bridgewater 29-7 to remain
winless on the season.

In the smoke from forest fires in
the area, Bridgewater took the ball
away from W&L six times, including
three straight interceptions by Tim
Runion, and the Eagles controlled the
ball for over 36 minutes to earn the
win.
The Eagles led 14-0 in the second
quarter when the Generals’ run-and-
shoot offense kicked in. On a fourth
down from the Bridgewater 39-yard
line, freshman quarterback Geren
Steiner found freshman Hayne Hod-
ges behind the Eagles’ defense at the
four-yard line.

After the 35-yard gain, junior
Wade Robinett bulled his way into
the end zone for W&L’s lone touch-
down on the day.

Bridgewater scored on its first
possession of the third quarter after
former Lexington High star James
Cooper took a pass to the Generals’

12 yard line. Two plays later, Freddie
Williams scored to make it 20-7.

The Eagles iced the game later in
the quarter with a 26-yard pass from
Williams to Mike Whittle.

In the second half, W&L tumed
the ball over on its last six posses-
sions, four times inside the Bridge-
water 20-yard line.

W&L’s run and shoot offense
clicked in the second half. Steiner
completed 22 of 44 passes for 181
yards. Freshman William Propst again
led the Generals in receiving, catch-
ing 10 passes for 83 yards. All of his
catches came in the second half.

Defensively, junior Don Dempsey
was in on 11 tackles and had an
interception. Junior Lyle Smith led
the way with 13 tackles. Freshman
James Maberry had 11, as did senior
John McCallum. Seniors Greg Kiehl
and Scott Williamson added 10 each.

Next up for the Generals is the
final home game on the season
against Guilford. W&L upset Guil-
ford last season 28-22. A W&L win
would keep Guilford from winning a
share of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference title.

Kickoff is set for 1:30 p.m. W&L
is still looking its their first win.

Financial Aid available immediately! Special grants program.
Every student eligible. No one turned down. Simple application.
Send name, address and $1 P&H free (refundable) to: Student
Services, P.O. Box 22-4026, Hollywood, FL 33022.

115 S. Main St., Lexington

Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture

463-2742

 

 

E, Nelson St., Lexington

 

 

Valley 7rueVahe Hardware

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00

Sun. 1:00-5:00
463-2186

 

 

 

Rt. 5, Box 379

  
        
  

703-463-3478

  
 

LEE HI

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

   

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

   
 

1-800-768-LEHI

Democratic Party
Saturday, November 9th

Dinner Special
Chicken Cacciatore $11.95

 

HOLLINS COLLEGE
Friday Night 9 p.m. - 1 a.m.

Moody Center, Tickets $7.00

Boy O Boy
Y-Not?!

Sunday afternoon
Tinker Beach, Tickets $3.00

Blind Dog and The Road Kings
2 1.D.’s Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

University PRINTING CENTER 1st Floor Reid Hall - 463-8448

Come to your Printing Center for:

+ Flyers and Posters

+ Copying and Printing
+ Programs + Brochures and Booklets
+ Newsletters * Scanning

The Printing Center offers quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job return, and
competitive pricing. We have a Macintosh IIx which can read IBM disks. Scanned
images can be added to your campaign or organizational flyers for that individual
appearance. Need a high resolution output? We offer our Linotronic 200SQ. Our
services cover University and non-profit organizations. Stop by today!

 

+ Custom Resumes and Letters
+ Transparencies

 

 

 
