 

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 18

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 13, 1992

 

MC nabs New York’s Cuomo for keynote address

 

From staff reports

New York Gov. Mario Cuomo will speak
Saturday March 7 at Washington and Lee’s 1992
Mock Democratic Convention.

Cuomo, the perennially sought-after
Democratic presidential candidate who recently
has been mentioned as a write-in candidate in
the New Hampshire Democratic primary, will
deliver the keynote speech at the convention,
according to MC Speakers Chairman Ted Elliott.

‘*His [Cuomo’s] entrance into Mock Con-
vention has raised our expectations for success
to the highest possible level,’’ Elliott said.

Cuomo agreed over the phone last Wednes-
day to appear at MC, Elliott said.

 

 

Cuomo

Cuomo replaces former presidential candi-
date and District of Columbia Shadow Senator
the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who pulled out of a
verbal agreement to deliver the keynote speech
two weeks ago. Although Jackson’s decision
came at a late date, Elliott said MC officers were
never worried about finding a replacement.

‘After Jackson backed out, Cuomo was the
obvious choice,’’ Elliott said. ‘“The only reason
we didn’t ask him before was that we thought he

would be a candidate.”’

Cuomo was elected to the New York state-
house in 1984. Although he received national
media attention as a possible presidential candi-
date in both the 1988 and 1992 elections, he has

never formally entered a race.

 

2p...

      

 

- Counell

 

Friday, March 5

Congressmen Jim Olin (D-Va.), Buddy
Darden (D-Ga.) and Democratic Leadership
ouncil Chairman AlFrom,

Mock Convention speakers lineup
Saturday, March 6
10:30 a.m.

New York Governor Maria Cuomo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

State kills
latest bill
on car tax

By LEIGH ALLEN

 

 

Phi Staff Reporter

A bill that
would have killed | Proposed
Lexington’s tax | law would
on student cars | have spared
a. aan =.
out of state was mr —
shot down Wed- | Clty tax

nesday by a
committee of the
Delegates.

If adopted, the bill would have
cost the city about $70,000 a year in
lost property-tax revenues, City Man-
ager T. Jon Ellestad said.

“‘The new bill was designed to
protect students from being taxed
twice,’’ he said.

Currently, owners can be taxed
by the city if their cars are garaged in
the city for the majority of the year,
regardless of the state of registration.

Ellestad said the new law would
have allowed Lexington to assess
only cars registered in students’
names. That would have eliminated

Virginia House of

 

‘| didn’t know you could park there’

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 

all but 15 percent of student cars
from the tax rolls, he estimated.
The tax is assessed at 4.25
percent of the car’s current value.
Ellestad said that, if students are
being taxed twice, they should seek a

 

That's what Politics Professor Mark Rush said Wednesday afternoon when he saw one faculty
member’s Toyota Tercel that had rolled from the parking lot behind the Commerce School and
slid part way down the embankment toward Woods Creek. The car suffered some body damage,
but its owner drove it away after a tow truck hoisted the vehicle back to level ground.

 

 

refund from their home city.
Lexington officials began taxing
student cars in January 1991.
In 1990, university President
John D. Wilson refused the city’s
request for a list of student cars regis-

 

tered with Washington and Lee. He

said then that turning over the list Phi Senior Copy Editor

By THOMAS EISENHAUER

 

might violate federal laws protecting
student privacy.

Students responded to the impo-
sition of the tax in 1991 by threaten-
ing a boycott of local merchants.

The boycott was called off when
1990-91 EC President Tom Hatcher
stepped in to mediate.

In March 1991, Hatcher told the
City Council students already pay
their fair share of city expenses
through donations by the university.

“This is a blatant attempt to
increase revenue at the expense of
non-constituents,’’ Hatcher said.

But the city proceeded with its
efforts to collect the tax.

Ellestad said that, if the bill had
passed, the city would have consid-
ered raising the property tax rate to
make up for the lost revenue.

the chapter next week.

period,

Dec, 22.
President Wilson said he received D

Norville Stevens. In addition, Tuesday

Washington and Lee President John Wilson said he
will consider the motivation behind Delta Tau Delta’s pre-
Christmas house-trashing when he decides the future of

“I’m anxious to find out how many folks were
involved in this act and the previous act,’’ President Wil-
son said. ‘‘I’m most interested in attitude and intention
and the longer term prospects for the fraternity.”

On Jan. 17, the Student Affairs Committee suspended
Delt from campus for five years for what SAC called the
“systematic destruction’’ of its house over a 10-week

Members of the chapter broke windows, knocked
down walls, removed ceiling tiles, disassembled lofts and
destroyed a brick bar before moving out of the house on

when he met with Delt House Corporation President
Taylor Cole, ’75, and Delt national Vice President

Wilson

dent that the chapter did not systematically destroy its
house, as SAC ruled.

“It wasn’t systematic simply because the house made
no decision to commit the acts [of vandalism and destruc

elt’s appeal Friday

 

» with Delt President Robert
_| Wilson and Vice President
y Pat McCabe.

Robert Wilson said the
president ‘‘wanted a broader
perspective’’ on the damage
and vandalism.

“He was concerned
about any malicious feeling
4 toward the university,”

Robert Wilson said. ‘‘We
| were trying to reassure him

_ | that... there was no rebel-
w {lion against [Fraternity]
Renaissance.”’

He said that he and Mc-
Cabe stressed to the presi-

 

the president met

DELT continued on page 6>

MacFarland,
Hutton win EC

 

By
JOSHUA MANNING
Phi Staff Reporter

High voter
turnout boosted
two candidates to
victory Monday
while the rest of

 
    

ee

the “Big Four’’ “| +184 Hackney
await the results M 127 Elliot
acFarl
of today’s run-off land Hutton 98 Hixson
election. ;
Slee teak President VP SCC Chairman

MacFarland __re- 792 MacFarland 701 Hutton 559 Aggarwal

: i 260 League 471 Hooper 445 Kleiner
ue pi gros 42 Hess 100 Schneider 242 Burke

318 No Vote 140 No Vote 143 Davis

was elected Exec-
utive Committee

 

EC election results

1412 ballots were cast Monday -- a 71 percent turnout

Run offs today:
(top two only)

Secretary
414 Tompkins
333 McCord
219 Dunn

    

 

 

president. Sopho-
more Ames Hut-
ton was elected vice president.
Junior Robyn McCord faced
second-year law student Bob Tomp-
kins today in the runoff for EC sec-
retary while junior Betsy Kleiner
faced first-year law student Reggie
Aggarwal for chairman of the Student
Conduct Committee. Results were not
available by press time this morning.
Running unopposed, MacFar-
land did face write-in competition, but
he won about 56 percent of all ballots
cast.
“‘T’m very relieved and looking
forward to an exciting and productive

upcoming year,’’ MacFarland said.

But a section of the student
body constitution brings into question
the validity of holding the EC elec-
tions so early in winter term.

While the constitution provides
for EC officer elections in mid-
March, it does allow the EC to
change the date by a two-thirds vote.
Further, the constitution says the new
election dates ‘‘shall be posted in
February, and shall be published in
every Ring-tum Phi issued during

 

ELECTION continued on page 6>

Wilson promises Delt decision during break

IFC votes to support Delt appeal

 

By JASON KELLEY
Phi Editor

 

The  Interfraternity Council
voted overwhelmingly Tuesday night
to support a resolution calling for
Washington and Lee President John
Wilson and the Student Affairs Com-
mittee to reconsider Delta Tau Delta’s
five-year suspension from campus.

The council’s vote came after
Delt President Robert Wilson appeal-
ed to the IFC for help in Delt’s ap-
peal to President Wilson.

Robert Wilson argued that all
the fraternities should be concerned
because SAC’s decision set a bad
precedent for the autonomy of fra-
ternities in the future.

“‘This concerns the sovereignty

of each one of your houses,”’ he said.

IFC President Greg Hicks said
he supports the resolution, in part
because he said SAC did not even
consider the IFC’s recommendation
that Delt be placed on critical proba-
tion after chapter members destroyed
walls and a brick bar in the house.

Three fraternity presidents vol-
unteered to draft the final wording of
the resolution after February break.
The IFC plans to present it to Presi-
dent Wilson and SAC Wednesday
Feb. 26, but President Wilson said
Monday he expects to rule on the
appeal next week.

President Wilson can either
uphold SAC’s decision or send the
case back to SAC with a recommen-
dation to reduce the penalty.

Sooner or later AIDS virus will hit W&L students, physician says

 

Number of students tested for HIV
at the Student Health Center

24

20

16

12

‘

 

1988-89 1989-90 1990-91 Fall 1991

 

 

 

 

By CATHY LOPICCOLO
Phi News Editor

 

So far, no Washington and Lee
students have tested or reported test-
ing positive for the AIDS virus, but
administrators say it’s just a matter of
time.

““My only concern is that stu-
dents not have a false sense of reas-
surance that it is not a problem
here,”’ said Dr. Jane Horton, universi-
ty physician. ‘‘It is a potential prob-
lem, even without the positive test re-
sults.”’

“I do expect to see a student
with HIV at W&L.”’

According to recent information
from the national Centers for Disease

Control, about 30,000, or one in 400,
American college students have tested
positive for HIV, the virus that causes
AIDS. At that rate, W&L could ex-
pect to have as many as five HIV-
positive students on campus.

Since the university began offer-
ing confidential HIV-antibody testing
in 1988, the Student Health Center
has administered 57 tests, Horton
said. More students requested testing
from the infirmary this fall than have
been tested in any other single year.

Horton said all of the tests have
had negative results.

Horton emphasized that the
health center’s negative results do not
mean that no W&L students are HIV-
positive. She said some students may

not know they are infected and others
may have been tested elsewhere.

According to the ‘‘University
Policy on AIDS,’’ any student or
employee who knows or suspects he
is HIV-positive should notify a uni-
versity physician, counselor or a
member of the Dean of Students
office.

However, Horton said there is
“no guarantee’’ that an HIV-positive
student or employee would reveal his
condition.

The policy also says that HIV-
positive individuals are obligated
“ethically and legally’’ to conduct
themselves responsibly in order to
protect other members of the W&L
community.

According to the policy, infor-
mation about HIV-positive individuals
must be kept confidential. Horton said
the names of HIV-positive individuals
would be revealed to the administra-
tion only if it became necessary for
the health of the infected individuals
or other members of the community.

Although she cannot disclose
the names of infected students, Hor-
ton said she would inform administra-
tors and the student body about the
number of HIV cases on campus.

“‘T would find it reasonable to
report that we have had positive test
results, if we have,’’ Horton said. ‘‘I
would use the opportunity to let peo-
ple know that better prevention and
education were necessary.”’

 

 

Don’t miss
St. Valentine
page 4

 

 

 

 

 

New DCs, RAs

announced
page 6

 

Generals top Lynchburg
71-65 in basketball

page 8

 

 
Page 2

 

 

 

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

The EC forgot
to follow the rules

The handling of ‘‘Big Four’’ elections this year by the
Executive Committee and Voting Regulations Board has been
slipshod and unconstitutional at best, but lacking practical
accountability to students, not much can be done.

Last week we commented on the sparse notices placed on
campus by the VRB to make students aware of election
deadlines. The VRB made an effort to correct that mistake by
putting up posters reminding students to vote on Monday, but
the damage, after all, was done. The posters essentially
reminded students to vote for Josh MacFarland or Josh
MacFarland for EC president.

MacFarland was elected EC president by 792 of the 1,412
voting students, a majority, but only 56 percent. Of course,
leaders have been elected by narrower margins. But who did
MacFarland narrowly beat? Mickey Mouse?

No, actually the official runner-up was senior B.J. League,
whose name 260 students wrote in. League ran against
MacFarland because no one else did.

Maybe one of the other almost 2,000 students might have
filed a petition to run, but did not know about the deadline.
How could just anyone have known? Unlike MacFarland,
most students do not sit on the EC.

There is an answer to this problem. The student
Constitution demands that any variance from the usual election
dates be published in every Phi in February. But EC President
Giles Perkins said he saw that mandate as more of a guideline
than a requirement.

The constitution does not say anything about guidelines.
All students should be informed, and the writers of the
constitution recognized the Phi as an efficient means of
notification.

Obviously, the constitution intends that elections be held
after February. If scheduling absolutely necessitates a
February election, early publicity is even more important. But
neither the EC nor the VRB published adequate notice of
election dates in the Phi.

The constitution was shrugged off as an inconvenient set
of guidelines, and as a result, a presidential hopeful was kept
out of the race. Consider: 260 students wrote ‘‘B.J. League”’
on their ballots. Not bad for a last-minute word-of-mouth and
poster blitz. How many would have voted for League if her
name had been on the ballot? Two hundred sixty votes for

 

League and 318 ‘‘invalid’’ votes for president indicate not a.
radical, anti-MacFarland movement, but a reasonable cross- |

section of students who would at least like a choice.

Washington and Lee students are not known for their
tendency to rally to a cause. If EC members are waiting for
disgruntled students to storm the University Center demanding
a new election, they had best not wait long. W&L students, on
the other hand, express themselves best when they do not
express themselves, and that is exactly what happened
Monday. About 44 percent of voting students did not vote for
MacFarland. That’s a W&L statement.

The EC is now sailing on the smooth waters of silent
dissent. It will not act, as elected officials do not respond well
to silent criticism.

We do not claim that MacFarland will not make a good EC
president or that he is not qualified for the job. Our objection
is to a student government that has become so distant from its
constituency and so insensitive to student apathy, that it no
longer fears being held accountable by students. The student
government believes it can go about its business, interpreting
the constitution in whatever way is convenient, and no one,
except sometimes the Phi, will raise a fuss.

And maybe they are right.

Quote of the Week

Why have a snack when you can have a meal?
— A larger-than-average male student trying out a new pick-
up line on a woman talking to a smaller male student

 

 

Sus (S vomit...

 

   

THANK YOu , NIALL MACKENZIE | Fog Foeunr

ALL youe FASCINern G OANIONS Doys ove
THROM. LIKE We Cage.

 

wool Hee manganese? Thertcicé.

wes NO DEMOCRAM L&T...
awd

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1992

Don’t vote! Our
system is a farce

My VIEW

 

By Niall MacKenzie, ’93

 

Because the people who own the United States have
never much liked the idea of democracy, we have no such
thing. Our political apparatus and its obedient servant, the
media, are tailored to keep the American people as ignorant
of and unengaged in public decision-making as the people
possibly can be. For the most part, they succeed. But every
once in a while some issue comes up that cannot be skirted;
much to the irritation of our corporate owners and their
lackeys in politics and journalism, the people do have to be
made aware of a few issues of national concen. Supreme
Court nominations are one example. Presidential elections

are another,

_ Generally speaking,
the truth about anything is
always embarrassing to the
government and the over-
all system it works for.
Plainly, the truth can
never be confronted. So,
last fall we were all forced
to endure the Uncle Tho-

 

Voting in American
elections is no
longer merely a
waste of time,

it is immoral!

It lends an aura

of legitimacy to mas Show; and now, here
a totally corrupt we go again. Right on cue.
N\A ttn system. It’s flip-a-coin for presi-

 

 

Queries both to guide you
and to clear Swann’s mind

 

LET IT RIDE

By Chris Swann

 

Being the English scholar that I am, I’ve
been pondering the mysteries of life over the
past few weeks. Like, what is the mystical force
that removes an article of clothing from my
possession every time I do my laundry? The
keys to the universe, as Bruce Springsteen says,
can be found in the engine of an old parked car,
so maybe I’ll find something in these musings.

A friend of mine was asked to describe
a Jewish nose, and he pointed at mine. Gee,
wouldn’t my old-fashioned Protestant grandpar-
ents be thrilled. ‘‘All right, where did your nose
come from? Who did it? It was Uncle Bernie,
wasn’t it? I knew he was Jewish!’’ Perhaps I’ll
touch off a minor religious war amidst my
family. And what exactly is a Jewish nose? Call
me meshugenah, but I thought it was a mean
stereotype directed at Barbara Striesand.

I want to print something from the ‘‘greatest
writer of English literature,’’ John Milton:

They who.to states and governors of the

for a life support system. And where did he hear
that?

Are the Star Trek guys getting older, or is it
just me? In the last movie I kept waiting for
Spock’s ears to fall off or McCoy’s dentures to
fall out. And William Shatner — would some-
body please give him an acting lesson! ‘‘Bones,
this... man is (head jerk) DEAD. Givemearead-
ing. Spock, is there... anythingsuspiciousonthe-
planet?’’ This guy can make Steven Seagal look
like an accomplished Shakespearian.

 

I’ve been pondering the great
mysteries of life over the past
few weeks... Why can’t we all be
sophomores and live in a
pre-CRC world?

 

I think cartoonists are the sickest people on
the planet. Charlie Brown has this obsession
with a red-headed girl we never see. It’s proba-
bly mom, who, incidentally, never appears
either. Are there no adults inthis world? There

are none except those voices that sound like Jimi °

commonwealth direct their speech, high court of Hendrix feedback playéd in reverse through a

parliament, or wanting such access in a private
condition, write that which they foresee may ad-
vance the public good, I suppose them, as at the
beginning of no mean endeavor, not a little
altered and moved inwardly in their minds; some
with doubt of what will be the success, others
with fear of what will be the censure; some with
hope, others with confidence of what they have
to speak. — Areopagitica.

And that is the opening sentence. What
would your teachers do if you wrote this? Run
it through a grammar checker: ‘‘extremely
lengthy, sentence fragments,’’ perhaps? My
computer diagnosed the writer as a schizophrenic
paranoiac and called Bellevue. I had to convince
the guys in the white coats at my door that the
writer had been dead for over 300 years. Those
straitjackets are scary.

And why did Darth Vader have to be Luke’s
father? Did Luke have some sort of Oedipal
complex and want to off dad? He already flirted
incestuously with Princess Leia. And why did
Vader have to wear that stupid outfit like black
Kevlar? Sure, every time you asked that in grade
school, some fat kid with glasses said it was
because Vader fell into a volcano and needed it

megaphone. And have you seen those people
DANCE? Take a look at Garfield — does Jon
have a life outside of this fat, lasagna-eating cat?
And nobody can tell me that Odie doesn’t have
serious problems. How about Calvin — he’s
been six years old for the past decade. He makes
Dennis the Menace look well-adjusted. I’m not
even going to mention Gary Larson.

Would somebody explain to me why there
are no caramel Twix candy bars in the Co-op
anymore? Oh sure, I can have Oreo Cookie,
Peanut Butter, or (shudder) Chocolate Fudge.
What are they trying to do, get me to buy anoth-
er brand of candy bar? My snack of choice,
vanished. Life is so unfair.

Why do freshmen always look completely
lost? Why do seniors always look anxious
around May? Why do both envy the other?

Why, oh why, do I go to the Palms? Let’s
examine this alcohol concept. About 10,000
years ago, some prehistoric neanderthal grew
some wheat, stomped on it with his muddy feet,
boiled it in water for days with some yeast and
drank it. Anybody want a beer?

Why can’t we all just be sophomores and
live in a pre-CRC world?

dent time, and the lurid
daytime-drama-like preoc-
cupations which will crowd out all meaningful discussion
in the coming months are already being whipped-up by the
media.

A supermarket tabloid called The Star got the fun off
to a start, weighing-in recently with a rivetting story about
Bill Clinton’s alleged colorful history of extramarital
amusements, Outwardly indignant but inwardly grateful, the
mainstream press was quick to lap up this gift from its ma-
ligned colleague. There ensued a general flurry of excited
chatter about propriety and privacy and the rest of it —

with a good deal of, ‘‘Do you think he really, you know,

Miss America?”’ thrown in.

It is hypocritical for mainstream media organizations
to condemn rags like The Star for their contemptible sleaze-
mongering. For these rags are only taking to its logical
extreme the very tone of public discourse which the
mainstream media has set. The race for nominations has, to
date, been characterized by a general swapping of brainless
catch-phrases (‘‘twinkie economics’’) and childish outbursts
(‘jumping all over my you-know-what’’). This insults both
the people’s intelligence and the lofty tradition of American
political discourse. Sadly, as competition for the presidency
heats up, we can only expect this trend to intensify, with
the added spice of some more irrelevant personal innuen-
does, All this is part of a general scramble by the manufac-
turers and dispensers of opinion to divert attention away
from the reality of our political life. U.S. politics has
degenerated into a mephitic kindergarten, completely empty
of meaning or dignity. Se as carnin |
__ What to do? Electronic media have certainly abetted
the forces of diversion in public discourse. America’s
attention span is presently something like 9.8 seconds, just
the length of an average campaign-trail ‘‘sound-bite.’’ We
might try to control the damage by banning all paid
political ads and giving all candidates equal time to express
their views on radio and TV. This might force them to
convey some impression of what and how well — and if —
they actually think. We might also join the civilized world
in limiting election campaigns to eight weeks, in hopes of
preventing the worst excesses of smearing and trivia-hyping
which currently prevail in our camival-like presidential
lotteries.

These suggestions are insanely optimistic and, even if
they were not, they are limited in their potential to actually
affect so decadent a state of affairs as this one. If you really
want to do something, don’t vote. Voting in American
elections is no longer merely a waste of time, it is immoral.
It lends an aura of legitimacy to a totally corrupt and
undemocratic system.

Half the people currently eligible to vote have clued
in... and don’t. If that proportion can be swelled to 75 or 80
or 90 percent, then the collapse of the American state’s
legitimacy will be ostentatious and undeniable. Its imperial
directives can be ignored, as they should be, and its
political officers can be dismissed, as they should be. And
then maybe, just maybe, the American people can come
together to rethink and re-order a government which has
never, in recent memory, been by or for them, but only of.

Advice from General Lee for the CRC

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley

Cathy Lopiccolo
Thomas Eisenhauer
Joshua Manning

Jay Plotkin

Francesca Kefalas

Craig Burke

Leigh Allen

News Editor

Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor
Entertainment Editor
Assignment Editor
Photo Editor
Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

My VIEW

By James Lake

 

You know the PC-types have gone too far
when Time starts busting on ’em.

A cover story in the Feb. 3 issue of that
magazine brought home how far the forces of polit-
ical correctness have taken this country.

“The Fraying of America,’’ moaned Time as
it launched a self-proclaimed ‘‘scorching look at
political correctness, social breakdown and the
culture of complaint.’’ Readers more accustomed to
Time’s customary not-quite-conservative views no
doubt were shocked to read gems such as this:

Americans are obsessed with the recognition,
praise and, when necessary, the manufacture of
victims. ... The range of victims available 10 years
ago — blacks, Chicanos, Indians, women, homosex-
uals — has now expanded to include every permu-
tation of the halt, the blind and the short, or, to put
it correctly, the vertically challenged.

Wow! Is Ayn Rand really dead? Or is she
hiding out somewhere with a modem, using it to
sneak stuff into Time’s computers?

No, probably not. What is happening, one can
only hope, is that PC-stormtroopers are waking up
to the evil they have wrought. Even those with a
permanent tilt to port must see something ridicu-
lous in a banner recently unfurled at the University
of Michigan: ‘‘I used to be a white American but
I gave it up in the interest of humanity.’’

Hopefully, whatever good sense flowed into
Time’s editorial offices this month will soon waft
its way to the Valley of Virginia. With W&L’s
harassment policy under review by the Student
Affairs Committee and the Confidential Review
Committee, this would be an ideal time for our
school to break away from the PC pack.

There’s a lot wrong with the current harass-
ment policy, but Time’s article points to one partic-

ular flaw: its glorification of ‘‘victim’’ groups.
W&L’s policy lashes out at, among other things,
conduct of a ‘‘racial, ethnic, religious or sexual na-
ture’’ that has the ‘‘purpose or effect’’ of ‘‘ad-
versely affecting an individual’s quality of life.”’

I’ve never understood why W&L adopted this
bureaucratic-sounding, group-based code, particu-
larly since it supplanted a far simpler rule — a rule
adopted by one of our founders and thus far more
respected by students than something that reads like
an import from the University of Michigan.

I’m referring, of course, to President Lee’s
simple rule that every student must be a gentleman.

How novel! How simple! But, oh, how incor-
rect!

Well, if we could — for a moment — forgive
Lee for being a dead, white male, maybe we could
see the virtue in his policy and why it should be
restored as the standard for student conduct.

More than a century after Lee’s presidency
ended, W&L retains a commitment to courtesy. Of
course this is not the school’s only mission; W&L
recognizes the importance of conveying information
from faculty to students, and our school, like many
others, performs that task ably.

But Lee’s maxim reminds us of another W&L
goal: teaching civility, a virtue valuable both for its
own sake and because it makes life easier and, con-
sequently, nourishes scholarship. For those reasons,
W&L would be a far better place if we shelved the
current policy in favor of a coeducational version
of the instruction Lee gave nearly 13 decades ago:
“*Students, behave as ladies and gentlemen,”’

Among the greatest strengths of Lee’s stan-
dard is that it doesn’t list attributes, such as race or
religion, that are protected. Such lists, though well
intended, are laden with liabilities.

* First, such lists stigmatize women and listed
minorities by implying those persons are in need of
special protection and are thus inferior to a benevo-
lent, coddling majority.

* Second, such lists deflect attention away
from individuals and toward particular groups; this
focus on groups implies the policy is designed to
protect only members of those groups, not anyone
who is harassed.

* Third, such lists necessarily incite debate
over who merits protection; the more important
question — whether W&L students should behave
like jerks — is neglected.

¢ And, finally, such lists direct attention
toward a symptom and away from the problem —
ungentlemanly conduct. Remember, teaching
civility is one of our school’s central missions, In
Striving for that goal, Lee was telling his students
to behave as gentlemen in all circumstances, not
just when they might get caught ‘‘adversely affect-
ing an individual’s quality of life.’’

WA&L students and employees must have the
Opportunity to express bold ideas without fear of
reprisal. But that is not the only fear W&L must
prevent: the school also cannot allow its students to
live in fear of emotional harm. It is the university’ s

A
'

duty to provide an academic setting free from '

harassment. Fortunately, free speech and freedom
from fear can be protected without stigmatizing

individuals, without bureaucratic codes and without.’

trampling student autonomy.

And the restoration of Lee’s maxim to a place

of prominence would do more than that, Frequent
reference to his advice would further one of this
school’s central missions — producing civil, courte-
Ous men and women.

Because requiring gentlemanly conduct would °

both protect current students from harassment and
perpetuate W&L’s legacy of honor and Civility, I
hope those reviewing the harassment policy will
find a minute or two to consider Lee’s simple
advice — even though he is a dead, white male.

James Lake,’90,’94L, is a former associate
editor of The Ring-tum Phi.
The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1992

 

   

Election breaks
the constitution

Members of the Student Body:

I am writing to express my concern regard-
ing the Executive Committee elections held this
past Monday, Feb. 10, 1992. I believe that the
date of this election has been changed in a man-
ner that is unacceptable in regards the student
body constitution. The constitution, in reference
to elections, states:

By the ninth Monday after January 1 of
each year, a petition with the signatures of 150
students shall be required from every candidate
for President, Vice President and Secretary of the
Student Body. The election shall be held on the
tenth Monday, and the runoff election on the
Thursday of that week.

However, the constitution does provide for
a change in election dates:

In January of each year, if the Executive
Committee determines that the school schedule
will interfere with winter or spring elections, on
a two-thirds vote, the voting dates may be altered
from that contained in this Constitution. Notice of
such change shall be posted in February, and
shall be published in every Ring-tum Phi issued
during February that year.

Eminently obvious is that if the date of the
election is changed, than ample notice, i.e., all
four issues of The Ring-tum Phi issued in Febru-
ary, will announce this change. Again, the obvi-
ous conclusion is that the new date must be after
February. This is certainly not what happened this
year and why I therefore think that the election
this past Monday was unconstitutional.

Given this irregularity in constitutional
governance, I hereby ask the Executive Commit-
tee of Washington and Lee University to forfeit
the results of this week’s election and to resched-
ule a new election in accordance with the student
body constitution. I also ask the students on the
campus in Lexington to join me in this request. I
ask this because I believe that nothing less than
the self-governance of the W&L student, body is
at stake. We have a wonderful heritage of inde-
pendence and self-rule. We take that upon our-
selves by living with a certain set of rules, both
in the constitution and the Honor Code.If we fail
to live by the rules we set for ourselves, how can
we possibly live in the rules imposed by society?
How can we possibly ask others to believe in our
word, which is, after all, only bound by the rules
of honor we each individually provide for our-
selves? So again, I ask you, A NEW ELECTION,
PLEASE!

Ladies and gentlemen, one more word of
warning, if you will permit me. Do not let this
test of our student community relinquish your
commitment to Washington and Lee. Rather, let
it redouble your efforts to make W&L the best
place it can be... the best place to be. Let this be
your inspiration to make Washington and Lee the
most wonderful place anybody associated with it
can possibly think of.

With that, I leave you with thoughts of
rectification, reconciliation and, next fall, matric-
ulation.

Sincerely,
Niv Goldberg, ’93
On Leave of Absence

MacKenzie tires
irate law student

To the Editor:

I, for one, am sick and tired of reading Mr.
Niall MacKenzie’s smug, left-wing potshots in
this space. While the Phi is indeed.a forum for
the expression of student views, it is assuredly
not a bulletin board for gratuitous personal
attacks, such as those which appeared in the two

. most recent issues of this publication.
Mr. MacKenzie evidently revels in his self-

 

- OPINION

Page 3

 

 

 

 

 

LETTERS

proclaimed glory as the liberal ‘‘campus wit.’’
(Unfortunately, he has a lot of competition.)
What self-deluded arrogance he showed in attack-
ing a Phi story before it was published! His
deficient omniscience was happily exposed by the
Phi’s objective coverage of Mrs. Thatcher’s
speech, which appeared the same day as his
cocksure prediction. Mr. MacKenzie must, no
doubt, be red-faced at such a glaring demonstra-
tion of his lack of insight.

As for the merits (if any) of Mr. Mac-
Kenzie’s latest diatribe: the Spectator is merely
engaging in something which is apparently
foreign to Mr. MacKenzie; humor. Mr. Mac-
Kenzie’s feeble sense of humor seems to be
confined to shrill attacks on ‘‘the way things
are.”’ Like a frustrated child who cannot have his
way, he tilts at windmills, hoping the world will
turn in his direction instead of that which the rest
of us have chosen.

Mr. MacKenzie takes perverse pleasure in
using strident language to further his marginal
viewpoints. He hopes to ‘‘prick our conscience”’
by reminding us of the alleged misery of the
fraternity maintenance staffs. I am certain that his
condescending words have done little to invoke
a sense of remorse in anyone. Certainly the
maintenance staffs work hard at their jobs; at the
same time, fraternity members are entitled to
receive full value for what they spend.

Let us not forget, Mr. MacKenzie, that
limousine liberals like you are constantly shriek-
ing about economic inequality. At the same time,
you enjoy a significantly higher standard of living
than those you claim to care about. It is the
height of hypocrisy to demand that the Spectator
check its sense of humor at the door, while you
reap the benefits of the fraternity system yourself.

The Spectator is a harmless and humorous
magazine. Recognize it as such, lighten up and
enjoy it.

Yours, etc.,
Mitch Neurock, ’92L

YAWP article
bashes Sig Ep

The following letter was sent to the Phi in re-
sponse to an article in YAWP magazine.

To Bill Alberque:

I have read your article ‘‘Fraternity ‘Ren-
aissance’ or ‘Swan Song’’’ that was printed in a
recent issue of the YAWP that is periodically
distributed on our campus. I enjoyed having
Democratic and liberal views in print until. your
story unpleasantly crossed my path. _

First of all, many houses on campus may
seem as if they were ‘‘in trouble’’ of closing.
One of the factors that you seemed to be refer-
ring to that could lead to the end of a chapter
was pledge class size. I agree that it can influence
whether or not a house will ‘‘fold,’’ but I think
that quality also plays an important role. Many
fraternities on campus have gotten quality pledge
classes while receiving quantity at the same time,
and they have remained one of your ‘‘thirteen
hot-spots.’’ Of the three houses you named in
your article, Sigma Phi Epsilon needed a large,
strong pledge class most of all. Well, sir, they
succeeded. However, we are still hearing deroga-
tory remarks made toward us. For insiance, our
pledge class act was booed at Lip Synch; some of
the people that didn’t think Sig Ep would or
should be around much longer are thinking again.

As you have probably noticed, I have a lot
of pride in my fraternity; the rest of the pledges
and brothers do, too. I think that we have reason
to be proud, but you are entitled to your own
opinion. Let me ask you how you formed your
opinions. Do you know any other Sig Eps besides

  

 

John Flippen? Do you know any of the pledges?
My pledge brothers were not thrilled upon read-
ing your article, as I am sure my friends in the
other two houses you mentioned were not.

I, sir, also consider myself a Democrat, and
a liberal. However, I consider myself to be open-
minded, and I try not to prejudge others. It is a
fault that everyone has, but some do not publish
such views for all W&L to see. Be careful, you
may even be friends with someone that you not
only get along with, but even respect; he may be
a Sig Ep.

Concerned,

John W. Cox

Sigma Phi Epsilon,
Virginia Epsilon Chapter

YAWP writer
clarifies position

To the Editor:

Several weeks ago, an article of mine was
published in the new magazine, YAWP. This
article has caused a good deal of confusion and
consternation. I wish to clarify several points.

1. Regarding Sig Ep, my remarks were
meant to highlight two things:

a. Sig Ep’s class of 1992 has shown |
remarkable leadership qualities for the past four
years. Now it’s graduating. Where do they go
from here?

b. Over the past two years, justice has
come down hard upon bottle throwers and bar
disassemblers. I still find it remarkable that the
administration’s own ‘‘angel of death’’ passed
over Sig Ep after last year’s shotgun and interna-
tional drug trafficking incidents. Is it really so
outlandish to suggest that the class of ’92’s
leadership quotient had something to do with it?
You make the call.

2. Regarding Phi Delt, sorry, fellas, but the
stain of the Scarborough incident has yet to wash
off. We’re the last class that will remember the
incident itself, and, quite frankly, it has yet to be
fully exorcised. Perhaps nobody noticed Comer’s
disappearance that night, I really don’t know. I
don’t think that new, extraordinary action needs
to be taken, but I would like to hear what the
senior Phi Delts think of the whole thing; after
all, it is they who have been cheated of her
company for the past four years. Her memory
may go with us, but the stain remains firmly on
Phi Delt.

3. Several houses have started with the
closed party business. I didn’t name a particular
name so that everyone would have a different
idea as to what particular fraternity I meant.
Judging from the reactions, it worked. Now let’s
open up those damn parties again. s

’ 4, I consider myself neither a Democrat nor
a liberal. While I am grateful to YAWP for pub-
lishing my (I thought complementary) views on
fraternities, I must reiterate my ideological dis-
tance. I remain, as I’ve always been, a political
and economic hard-line conservative.

Sincerely,
William P. Alberque

Traveller editor
responds to jab

To those crazy guys and gals at the Spectator:

In response to your “If You Want the
Answers’’ advertisement in your latest thought-
provoking issue, I have only one thing to say:
“Up your butt with a coconut.’’

Hugs and kisses,
Alex Ruskell
Former Co-Editor of The Traveller

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Ariel

Ariel, W&L’s literary magazine,
is now accepting submissions
for its upcoming spring issue.
Undergraduate, alumni, staff and
law student submissions are
welcome. The deadline is March
9. Send all submissions to Carol
Calkins’ office. The winter
edition of Ariel is coming out
on Valentine’s Day.

NOW

“‘Women’s Studies and
‘Political Correctness’’’ will be
the subject of Professor Martha
Evans’ presentation at the
Rockbridge Valley National
Organization of Women meeting
Feb. 25 at 7:30 p.m. in the R.E.
Lee Church library. Professor
Evans has lived in Lexington
for 17 years, is a professor of
French and coordinator of
Women’s studies at Mary
Baldwin College. She has
recently published a book, Fits
and Stats, about hysteria in
France. NOW invites the W&L
community to join them for the
talk and discussion.

Calyx News
The Calyx is now accepting
senior pictures. We are also
accepting candids from the
general campus population.
Bring them to the Calyx office
in the University Center.

Bow Hunting
Billy Stockton, a Montana
guide, will be at the Lexington
Moose Lodge on Feb. 15 from
10 a.m. to noon to discuss bow
hunting. Admission is free and
all are welcome. The Moose
Lodge is located on Rt. 251
South on the left, just past the
golf course right before the turn
to Zollman’s Pavilion.

Amnesty

Amnesty International meetings
will be held every Tuesday at
6:15 p.m. in Newcomb 7
beginning the first week
following break. A movie/pizza
party has' been scheduled for
Feb. 28, from 5-7:30 p.m. in
Woods Creek Apt. E2 and is
open to anyone interested and
willing to donate $1-2 for food.
On Feb. 25, we will decide
which movie is to be shown and
make concrete plans for a
charity activity.

CD&P Winners

The Career Development and
Placement Office is pleased to
announce the winners of the
drawing for the flamingoes
publicizing Summer Opportuni-
ties Day. Would “Brandi
Henderson and Christine Hamlet
please stop by the CD&P office.
Ms. Lorig will give you the
flamingoes. Congratulations!

 

Daffodil Days

As an American Cancer Society
fundraiser, daffodils will be sold
at $4 for a bunch of 10. The
money raised will pay for early
detection brochures, pre-school
anti-tobacco kits and to help pay
for mammograms and lodging
for patients undergoing
treatment. Volunteers are needed
to help distribute the orders on
March 19. If you would to order
a flower or help distribute, call
Kelly Fujiwara at 463-9378.

Lost

A pair of navy blue ‘‘Gortex’’
ski gloves have been lost. If
found, please call 463-9512.

More Lost

WA&L security has found a blue
jeans jacket with a white lining,
an extra small Banana Republic
jacket with a set of keys in it
and a yellow rain jacket with
purple fishnet lining. These
items can be claimed at the
security office.

Writing Center

The Writing Center is open for
winter term Tuesday through
Thursday from 7-10 p.m. in
Payne 2B. Students who want
help with writing projects of any
kind are encouraged to sign up
or to stop by for an individual
conference with a writing tutor.
This semester we have double
tutors available on Thursday

nights.

Help Wanted

The Publications Board is now
accepting applications for these
positions for the 1992-93
academic year (Ring-tum Phi
terms begin this spring): Ariel
editor, Calyx editor, Calyx
business manager, Journal of
Science editor, The Ring-tum
Phi editor and The Ring-tum Phi
business manager. The board
might appoint more than one
person for any post. Apply by
Feb. 26 with a resume and letter
of interest to the Publications
Board. Mail your application to
board President Rick Peltz, P.O.
Box 40, Lexington, or deliver to
Carol Calkins in the University
Center. Interviews are mandato-
ry and will be held on March 2,
from 8-11 p.m. You will be
called to arrange a time. Call
Rick at 464-3775 with any
questions.

Get It Out

Need to get a message to the
student body? Put it in the
General Notes. Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office at room 208 of the
University Center.

Jameson Leonardi compiled the
General Notes.

 

 
   

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

 

 

 

 

TALKBACK

What are you doing to celebrate
Safer Sex Week?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kip ; Schaumloffel, 92, Susan Watkins, ’92, Robert Wilson, °93, Tyler, Andrea Cardamone, ’93, Koren Washington, ’°92, Chris Smith, ’92, Mercerville,
Cincinnati, Ohio — ‘“‘I get Birmingham, Ala, ~ Texas — ‘‘Loving people with Gladwyne, Pa, — ‘‘Sex? Denver, Colon — “I’m N.J. — ‘‘She’ll get none and
none. So what?’’ ‘Heading to Natural Bridge to latex.”’ What’s that?’’ continuing to be an example to like it.”’

hang out with high-schoolers.”’ my peers.”’

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Page 4

W&LIFE

eal a J

 

\
|

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Honor wears a changing face

 

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Entertainment Editor

“The Honor System is not ours to do
with as we please; it is ours only to pre-
serve,”’

— Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’46, in the
1961 Alumni Magazine

The idea of honor has been around a
long time at Washington and Lee, in fact
since before Lee came here. But the meaning
of honor has not always been the same.

Honor in the pre-Lee years was more
like an honor among thieves, according to
Professor of History and University Historian
Taylor Sanders.

Sanders said there was basically a war
between the faculty and the students, and the
only way for the faculty to exercise control
of student conduct was with pages and pages
of rules. Those rules included no dancing, no
nicknames and no leaving the campus with-
out permission.

According to Ollinger Crenshaw’s
General Lee’s College, the Washington
College faculty in 1853 decided that conduct
would count as one-sixth of a student’s
standing.

When Lee arrived in 1865, he ended
the student-faculty battles.

Crenshaw said the once strict discipline
of the college was replaced by ‘‘a gentle-
manly, lofty code of conduct.’’ Lee stressed
the importance of acting honorably and hav-
ing self-respect.

“The main thing that stops students
from cheating,’’ Sanders said, ‘‘is the mutu-
ality of respect between the faculty and
students, and the Honor System supports
that.’” But even Lee had some disciplinary
problems with students. In 1870, two stu-
dents were suspended for disorderly conduct
and intoxication in a Lexington hotel. The
students were not readmitted until they

aL td

HARRIS TEETER MEANS
LOW PRICES!

 

 

Whole Smoked
Picnic

signed a pledge stating they would avoid vio-
lating school law. The practice of the honor
pledge had begun.

Sanders said that generally, the Honor
System of Lee’s time was very informal, and
could be because of the small size of the
student body. If a student was suspected of
an honor violation, a student body meeting
would be called in the chapel. If the students
agreed he was guilty, he was forced to with-
draw.

Sanders said the student body started
electing officials about 1906 or 1907. As the
school grew in size, the need for a more
formal student government grew, and the
Executive Committee came to be. By the
1920s, the EC as we know it existed.

Sanders said he once heard a story he
believes set the tone for the Honor System.

Soon after Robert P. Doremus donated
a large sum of money to W&L, Sanders
says, Doremus found himself riding home on
a train with a W&L student who had just
been forced to withdraw for an honor vio-
lation. The young man expressed his regret
to Doremus, who wrote a letter to the univer-
sity president.

Doremus asked the president to accept
the young man back at W&L, Sanders says.
The president responded that he could not
possibly do that, as the student body made
its decision.

The codification of the Honor system is
harder pin point. The Ring-tum Phi consulted
numerous sources and none could give a date
for the writing of the first White Book.

The strength of the Honor System has
always surprised many visitors.

According to a January, 1925 Alumni
Magazine, the Citadel football team was
shocked to see the boxes of apples left unat-
tended in the hallway of the gymnasium. The
price of the apples was on a card and next to
the card was a box in which to leave the
money, and sure enough there wasymoney in

  

   

 

 

the box.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1992

Chavis was first

 

By JOYCE BAUTISTA
Phi Staff Reporter

 

In winter term 1795, John Chavis became

| Liberty Hall Academy’s first black student. But

there wouldn’t be another until 1966.

“‘Legend has it that Chavis was the object
of [a bet between] two planters on whether or
not an African could be educated, and the one
who thought Chavis couldn’t [be educated]
lost,’’ visiting Proiessor of History Ted DeLaney
said Monday at a lecture honoring Black History
Month.

After leaving the academy, Chavis became
a widely respected Presbyterian minister, teach-
ing at his own private school in North Carolina,

In 1988, Michael J. McManus, father of DeLaney said.

a W&L student and a syndicated columnist,
was pleasantly surprised to find that his son’s
lost wallet was retuned to him with $15
dollars in it, according to a February 1988
Alumni Magazine. McManus subsequently
wrote about the honor and integrity of W&L
in a column.

Sometimes belief in the Honor System
spread to those who didn’t attend W&L. The
Alumni Magazine of September 1974 report-
ed that the widow of a 1923 graduate had
found and sent back a book her husband had
checked out of the W&L library and subse-
quently lost — 50 years before.

However, apparent disregard for the
Honor System by students does happen.

A June 1954 Alumni Magazine in 1954,
15 students were brought before the Execu-
tive Committee for involvement in a cheating
ring.

The students had in their possession
pass keys to all the offices in Newcomb,
Payne, Washington, Robinson and Reid halls.
They also had a key to the Buildings and
Grounds Superintendent’s office where all
the university keys were kept, including the
key to the file cabinet where tests were kept
until professors picked them up.

Almost all of the students involved
withdrew voluntarily rather than stand trial,
and all signed statements indicating their part
in the cheating ring. A night watchman was
also involved in the cheating ring and was
immediately fired.

Throughout the years the Honor System
has been tested and re-examined again and
again.

“It might be that such an atmosphere
of trust and honor is rarer in the world today
than ever before,” former university Presi-
dent Robert E.R. Huntley said. ‘‘If so, it is
even more to be cherished and coveted
among us here.’’

DeLaney, who was a lab assistant in the
W&L biology department from 1963 to 1983,
spoke on ‘‘John Chavis: A Man Caught Between
Freedom and Slavery.”’

In 1964, when the issue of integration was
sweeping across the country, W&L remained an
all-white university. The issue of desegregation
was the hottest topic for debate in The Ring-tum
Phi.

Dr. Edward L. Pinney, then associate pro-
fessor of political science, said in a February
1964 issue of the Phi that ‘‘according to an
official in the W&L administration, a Negro has
never applied to the college.’’ Pinney suggested
that ‘‘were such an application made, it might
serve as a catalyst to decision on the part of the
Board of Trustees.”’

Some readers of the Phi claimed that since
no black students ever applied to W&L, that
there was no policy of segregation.

Ed Rodman, president of the student body
at the all-black school Hampton, told the Phi in
1964 that ‘‘no high school graduate who is a
Negro particularly wants to be a ‘firster’ at a
formerly all-white college.’’

Rodman said if he wanted to attend an
integrated university his first choice would be a
one that has already addressed the ‘integration
issue problem.

“Intelligent Negroes from any high school
can gain admission to Dartmouth, Princeton,
Bowdoin or Amherst, where they can pursue
their academic interest without the pressure of
white racists,’’ he said.

DeLaney said many of the arguments used
by the advocates of segregation were similar to
those used to fight W&L’s 1985 shift to coedu-
cation. For example, he said, one argument
against integration asked the question, ‘‘Where
are they going to go to the bathroom?’’

“They didn’t know what to do,’” DeLaney
said, “‘because at the time the South was still
full of separate bathrooms for blacks and
whites,”’

Finally, in 1966 two black students, the
first since Chavis, enrolled at W&L.

But the fifteen black students of the class
of 1974 were the first sizable class of black
graduates.

“‘They were a very impressive group of
students,’’ Professor of Politics Lewis John, who
was dean of students from 1969 to 1990 said.
“They were determined to succeed.”’

John said the black students had some
“‘initial social difficulties because of the relative-
ly small black community in Lexington and the
surrounding women’s colleges.’’

Because black students were coming into
a traditionally white-upper-middle-class universi-
ty from historically black high schools, they had
to struggle academically early on, according to
John. He said that through extra studying they
caught up with their white peers.

**All the students were admitted for their
potential and ability,’’ John said. ‘‘The addition
of black students to W&L went fairly smooth-
ly.”

Today there are several organized opportu-
nities for blacks, other ethnic minorities and
whites to interact with one another, Associate
Dean of Students Anece McCloud said. She
cited Una Vox as one example.

“‘T and several others thought we needed a
paper on campus that filled the gap of bringing
together news of diverse groups on campus,”’
McCloud said, ‘‘especially those groups that
may not be covered by other campus publica-
tions,”’

 

~~ of Reid Hall.

Tuesday Feb. 2
Carter will perfor

Cente.

A series of broadcas , a sts wil

(March 27).

 

 

 

 

 

*REDUCED*

 

 

HT Free Or
HT ice Cream

2
Ltr.

1°?

 

 

    

 

 

This Cou

   

*REDUCED*
Ly AAI

Cts

a

 

 

 

Offer

 

 

 

 

ee
of :

 

Limit One Coupon Per Purchase.

Offer Expires February 18, 1992.
j Coupon Value $4 00 (C)

VALUABLE CO

SAVE 75¢
When You Purchase One 13 Oz.

Jar Or President's Choice

Gourmet Jams
This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced.
Limit One Coupon Per Purchase.

Coupon Value 75¢

 

 

President's Choice

pon May Not Be Reproduced.

      

UPON

PCs —

Expires February 18, 1992.

(C)

si sh ints i en a

  

VALUABLE COUPON VALUABLE COUPON
_SRBALSIAS RR aaa ERE AE RENEE SR a

Prices Effective Through February 18, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, February 18, 1992. In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

ro"

| When
Bottle Of President's Choice
i Premium Gourmet Steak Sauce

! Coupon Value

——e Lh.
pari af ‘ if
5 ne
=
el
of hy =
ee
= iY sf ae
if Le cas
ja

r ae
When You Purchase One 64 Oz.

Carton Of President's Choice

Coupon Value __

    

  

m7

SAVE 60¢

You Purchase One 10 Oz.

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced.
Limit One Coupon Per Purchase.
Offer Expires February 18, 1992.

60¢ (Cc)

VALUABLE

‘ir

SAVE 50¢

Orange Juice
This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced.
Limit One Coupon Per Purchase.
Offer Expires February 18, 1992.

(C)

 

Woo% PURE
cory
ORANGE
JUICE
@®

sis

oo

as

a

      
     

es

: ’ 4," y i
Ss OS See SRS HEH CR HS ma
t

Diet Pepsi Or

Pepsi Cola
“99

REDEEM THESE COUPONS FOR EXCEPTIONAL
SAVINGS ON PRESIDENT'S CHOICE PRODUCTS!

me eT
SAVE $1.00

: When You Purchase One 14 Oz.
Bag Of :
i Decadent Or Decadent #2 Cookies

~
The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1992

 

 

 

my

 

 

Publicity Photo

The Alvin Ailey Repertory Ensemble will bring a new kind of
performance to the Lenfest Center

Dance ensemble
appeals to many

 

By LAKEISHA TOWNES
Phi Staff Reporter

 

If you’ve been hungering for a
different kind of cultural excitement,
check out the Alvin Ailey Repertory
Ensemble, a modern dance group per-
forming at the Lenfest Center on
February 27.

Lenfest Theatre Director Mi-
chael Gorman said he is ‘‘very
pleased that this group is coming.”’
He said he feels the performance will
appeal to a variety of interests. As
evidence, he cited the speed with
which the performance has sold out.

The dancers in the ensemble are
students picked from New York Ci-
ty’s Alvin Ailey American Dance
Center, which was established in
1974. The center and the dance group

are named for their creator and ren-

owned «choreographer, “Alvin Ailey, ©

‘who died in December 1989.
After Ailey’s death, the group

Have a happy and safe

Was

hington's break!

looked to Sylvia Waters for direction.
Ms. Waters, a former principal dancer
for the company, has been the Artistic
Director of the esemble since its for-
mation.

Although the company has been
predominately black, Waters stands
behind Ailey’s goal of having an
integrated company. Ailey wanted to
avoid categorizing ‘‘any one kind of
person,’’ he said, because there is
only ‘‘good dance and bad dance.”’
And the ensemble exemplifies good
dance.

The group may perform ‘*Work-
out,’’ an athletic ballet choreagraphed
by Louis Johnson and performed to
contemporary music. Other pieces
include ‘‘Isba,’’ choreographed by
Alvin Ailey, and ‘Hunger and
Thirst,’’ which was choreographed by
Kathryn Posin.

* Gortnan said he hopes this’ per-
formance ‘‘will be the beginning of
more dance programs.”’

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5

31 S. Main St., Lexington

463-3355
a

 

 

E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

Valley WiueVale. Hardware

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat, 8:30-6:00

Sun, 1:00-5:00
463-2186

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Koppagallo

WINTER SALE
All Winter Merchandise — 12 Off

“Spring Fashions Are In”

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

K&W Office Equipment

 

 

 

 

 

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

"20% Discount on all
non-sale items to students”

(703) 463-1620

11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
VISA, MC, AMEX

 

 

 

 

- W&LIFE

Gq Q

 

Cupid is coming

 

By NICOLE KEELER
Phi Staff Reporter

Contrary to popular marketing myth, Valentine’s Day was not created by
Hallmark in order to increase greeting card sales. Even die-hard romantics are
often ignorant about the rich history of St. Valentine’s Day.

The holiday harks back to ancient Rome, where teenage boys paid homage
to the lusty god Lupercus by drawing the names of single girls from a box,
according to Charles Panati’s Extraordinary Origins of Everyday Things. The
boy and girl were then considered a couple for the rest of the year, until the
next drawing.

But when Christianity spread across the Roman Empire, the Catholic
Church found that its newly converted populace wanted to hang onto its pagan
ritual, Panati says. So the Pope decided to offer people a Christian substitute:
the story of St. Valentine.

According to the church, Valentine was a young priest during the reign
of the mad Roman Emperor Claudius, Panati says. Claudius believed that
marriage and love weakened the fighting spirit of the people. And since he
couldn’t outlaw love, Claudius outlawed marriage.

Panati says that in response, the heartbroken Valentine secretly invited

-young lovers to his home, where he married them. When Claudius discovered

this, he had Valentine arrested. While he was in jail, Valentine fell in love
with the prison keeper’s daughter, Asterius. Knowing that his martyrdom was
inevitable, the young priest wrote his love a letter, signing it, ‘‘From Your
Valentine.”’

Variations on this legend have come down to the present day. And now
couples celebrate the holiday of love by exchanging gifts like flowers, choco-
lates and a card or ‘‘Valentine.”’

 

 

ade

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

 

1. Scientific Progress Goes “Boink,” by Bil WVatterson.
(Andrews & McMeel, $7.95.) Latest Calvin & Hobbes cartoons.

2. Life’s Little Instruction Book, by H. Jackson Brown Jr.
(Rutledge Hill, $5.95.) Advice for attaining a full life.

3. You Just Don’t Understand, by Deborah Tannen. (Ballantine,
$10.00.) How men and women can understand each other better.

4. Unnatural Selection, by Gary Larson.
(Andrews, & McMeel, $7.95.) Collection of Far Side cartoons.

5. The Plains of Passage, by Jean M. Auel. (Bantam, $6.99.)
Trekking across Europe during the ice age.

6. The Waste Lands, by Stephen King. (Plume, $15.00.)
King's latest volume in The. Dark Tower series.

7. Jurassic Park, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $5.99.)
A theme park's cloned dinosaurs are creating a world crisis.

. 8. Possession, by:A. S. Byatt (Vintage;-$12.00.) The-relationship
between two Victorian poets as seen by two British academics.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington 463-2742

Financial Ald available immediately! Special grants pro-
gram. Every student eligible. No one turned down, simple
application. Send name, address and $1 P&H fee (refunda-
ble) to: Student Services, P.O. Box 22-4026, Hollywood, FL
33022.

SHOE FIXERS

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satin shoes dyed in 1 hr.

464-6666

 

 

 

TGIF

Outlet Stores

Don’t forget to shop in our new BARGAIN ROOM

30 S. Main Street
R.E. Lee Building
9:30-5:30, Mon.-Sat.

463-9730
50-80% Savings on Nationally Advertised
Catalog Brands

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

“George’s %
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Albin-£

Tuxedos For Sale and Rental
Fancy Cummerbund Sets
Flasks

      
     
 

 

 

 

 

ents

Ray-Bans
Mock Convention Ties
W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars & Leashes

Since 1963
Student Charge
463-5383

 

Page 5

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 1
1 Boutique
5 — of Troy 4

10 Beauty parlor
item v

14 Bustle

15 Originated

16 Butterine

17 Arab VIP

18 Complaint

19 Gambling game

20 Defense Dept.
headquarters

22 Disagree

24 Bakery item

25 Calumet

26 Not healthy, in a

way

29 Something

_ stored

33 Eisenhower or
Van Doren

34 Make very wet

36 Moray

37 Mine entrance

38 Barely enough

39 Red quartz

 

40 Hod f i i i
aoe oe ©1 oe ior he eee. Services, inc. n2 / 1 3 /92
41 Overact Last Week’s Answers:
42 Throb 7 Cut of meat
43 ‘Able was | — 8 Psychic's ability:
Elba” abbr.
45 Time of year 9 Most poor
46 Complex of 10 Kind of cake or
stores break
47 Word 11 Swedish king

48 Songbird in 12 No more than

Persian poetry 13 Crude person

51 Swelled out 21 The best

55 Jai — 23 — dixit

56 Burn 25 Dried fruit

58 Stem joint 26 Picture

59 Uppity one 27 Low point

60 Oldinstrument 28 Show pleasure
61 ‘go bragh!"’ 30 Kingdom

62 Alleviate 31 Metrical writing

63 Leavening 32 Senior one

 

64 Poor grades 34 Show
DOWN displeasure
1 Pace 35 Kind of bran
2 Headquarters 38 Children
3 Norse god 39 Called upon 47 Arithmetic word 52 Had on
4 Artist's creation 41 Birthright seller 48 Vile 53 Actress Adams
5 Bargain 42 Knitting stitch 49 Arm bone 54 Lairs
6 Flynn of old 44 Drink 50 Asian land 57 Actor
movies 45 Pick 51 Ali — Marvin

 

ee

The Publications
Board is looking for
a few talented
people. See ‘Help
Wanted’ in the
GENERAL NOTES.

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant

J Jansport day packs and book bags
Lexington Bike Shop
463-7969

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

 

 

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER |

LEE HI

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

Rt. 5, Box 379

703-463-3478 1-800-768-LEHI

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

Prescriptions © Cosmetics *Perfumes
Charge Accounts °© Free Delivery

 

 

 

A CD for your Valentine
Only $13.49

February Special
Mystery Movies, Hunting Movies
99° Rentals

GIFT CERTIFICATES AVAILABLE

Bring in this ad for 75‘ discount on any movie rental
(99 Rentals Excluded)

 

Stonewall Square Mastercharge and VISA Accepted 463-9800

 

 
Page 6

 

| NEWS ~

 

 

 

 

The Superdance Committee takes a moment out of Superdance clean-up to pose for the camera.

MD Superdance tops last year by $3,000

 

By SEBASTIAN CROSS
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s 14th
annual Superdance raised $30,240 for
the Muscular Dystrophy Administra-
tion, surpassing last year’s take of
$27,000.

This year the money was raised
in the name of name of five-year-old
Andrew Slay, the son of Richmond

alumnus Joe Slay, ’72. Andrew suf-
fers from Spinal Muscular Atrophy,
one of the 40 strains of Muscular
Dystrophy and the leading killer of
children under two-years-old.

Fred Renneker, Superdance co-
chairman, said he was pleased with
the results.

‘‘All organizations involved
were extremely helpful and
supportive of the cause,’’ he said.

Mock Con students target
local businesses for blitz

 

By JAMESON LEONARDI
Phi Staff Reporter

The 1992 Washington and Lee
Mock Convention launched a public
relations blitz on the downtown mer-
chants last week.

MC Public Relations Co-Chair-
man Courtney Hall said the PR Blitz
was suggested by Dianne Herrick,
chairman of the Lexington Downtown
Development Association.

‘*We thought that students going
around to the local merchants and
explaining what MC was would be a

 

good idea,’’ Herrick said.

The original plan was to leave
brochures at the Visitor’s Center for
people to pick up, Hall said.

But Herrick had a better idea.

‘*Mrs. Herrick thought it would
be a nice touch for students to go to
each store individually and give them
the brochures,’’ Hall said.

“‘We wanted to be noticeable, so
everyone wore red, white, and blue,”’
Hall said.

‘IT think it was a huge success,”’
Hall said. ‘“The local merchants were
very responsive and very supportive.”’

Chapter initiates five pledges

 

v DELT continued from page 1

 

-tion],’” Robert Wilson said.

In preparation for the possibility
of losing its charter, Delt initiated five
of its seven pledges last Sunday.

‘‘We wanted to initiate those
guys in light of the fact that we might
lose the appeal,’’ Robert Wilson said.
‘If we lose [university] recognition,
by policy the national fraternity can’t
allow us to keep our charter, and
without a charter we wouldn’t be able

ciate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins.
“*We didn’t make any rules that
said what you could or couldn’t do
while you’re appealing,’ Atkins said.
“Maybe the spirit [of the initiation]
bothers me a little, but probably not.’’
Atkins said Robert Wilson told
him that he thought the initiation
ceremony may have included some
hazing, but that nothing dangerous
occurred. Atkins said the Delt presi-

“The entire effort went
smoothly, we couldn’t ask
better weekend.”’

Friday night featured a eight-
contestant ‘‘Battle of the Bands’’ and
Boy-O-Boy. The top two bands, the
Bleeding Potato Brothers and Tiny
Purple Cho Kitchen, returned Satur-
day to open for The Truly Dangerous
Swamp Band.

Lack of attendance was pointed

very
for a

 

 

Publicity photo

out as. the only low point of the
dance.

Pavilion Manager Taylor Crot-
hers said, ‘“The crowd peaked for the
student bands and had ... thinned out
by the time the big bands came on.”’

Bill Meadows, the lead singer of
Tiny Purple Cho Kitchen, said he be-
lieved the fact that alcohol was not
allowed in the pavilion might have
been a major reason for low turnout.

 

Dorm Couns

Head Counselor: Philip Spears
Asst. Head Counselors:
Amy Adamson, Bill Avoli
Heather Cook, Caroline Dawson
Head R.A.: Elizabeth Currall

 

New Head Dorm Counselor
Philip Spears

'92-'93 Resident Assts.
Michael Burgin Mai Spurlock
Jamie Hardman — Erin Walsh
Cynthia Kowlyk —- Robert Wilson
Heather Rhodes Susan Wooton.

 

chosen for 1992-93

 

elors, R.A.s

'92-'93 Dorm Counselors:

Heather Aussiker
Justin Bakule
Bryan Brading
Jeffrey Brooks
Lolita Crabbe
Ellen Dean

Sarah Drain
Spencer Golladay
Julie Guerin
Leslie Hess
Curtis Joseph
Thomas Mason
Reid Murphy
Brandon Neblett
Kirk Ogden
Benjamin Plummer
Stephanie Sauers
John Schindler
Pearce Smithwick
Derick Thomson
Laura Voekel
Teresa Williams
Andrew Woodring
Elizabeth Zarek

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1992

Publications Board
removes Calyx editor

 

By CATHY LOPICCOLO
Phi News Editor

 

Senior Pete Trammell was re-
moved from his positions as Calyx
co-editor and Publications Board
member after the Pub Board voted 4-
0 Monday night that he had not ful-
filled his duties.

The board recommended that
Trammell hold a lesser position on
the Calyx staff, such as assistant edi-
tor. Board President Rick Peltz would
not comment on the specific reasons
behind the Pub Board vote, he said,
because all board discussions about
personnel are closed.

Neither Trammell nor Calyx
Editor Kelli Klick were present at
Monday’s meeting, and no Calyx
representative voted.

Peltz said he and Vice President
Tonya Yoder, Ariel editor, were ap-
pointed to talk to Trammell and Klick
about the board’s vote and to decide
if the recommendation should stand.

“‘We were concerned because
Kelli [Klick] was not able to be at the
meeting and expressed a desire to talk
to us about it,’’ Peltz said. ‘‘The

board wanted to hear if she had a
compelling reason not to remove
Trammell.”’

After talking to Trammell and
Klick, Peltz said he and Yoder decid-
ed the board’ s

ice
™ should be
carried out.

Klick
said she
will not
appoint a
new co-
editor and
that Tram-
mell will
remain ‘‘an
integral
member’’

 

Trammell

of the staff.

‘‘Right now, I’m still working
with Pete as a co-editor,’’ Klick said.
“*Pete has my full support.’’

Trammell declined to comment.

In other business, the Pub Board
is now accepting applications for
1992-93 editors and business manag-
ers for Calyx, The Ring-tum Phi,
Ariel, Journal of Science and Politi-
cal Review.

Perkins defends EC actions,
election’s constitutionality

 

v ELECT continued from page 1

 

February.”

A student who believed that sec-
tion of the constitution would prohibit
a February election called the matter
to the attention of EC President Giles
Perkins.

“That’s clearly not what the
constitution says to me,’’ Perkins
said. ‘‘It says that we have to have
the elections ‘by’ the 10th week of
term, and that we can alter the dates.
That’s the way we chose to interpret
it, and it is a valid interpretation.”’

Perkins said the election. dates
were changed due to conflicts with
both Mock Convention and Fancy
Dress.

“‘We were faced with a situation
this year when there was no other
block of three weeks in which to hold
the election,’’ Perkins said.

Dean of Students David Howison,
chairman of the Student Affairs
Committee, said he reads that section
of the constitution as a guideline,
rather than as a prohibition.

“IT do not think [the constitution]
bans a February election; they just
need to make notice of it in the Phi,”’
Howison said.

Howison said he assumes the EC
approved the dates by a two-thirds

vote. But EC Secretary Caroline |

Wight said she was not sure that such
a vote was taken.

During the Jan. 20 EC meeting,
the committee discussed the election
dates, Wight said. At that time, Per-

kins gave the tentative dates, subject
to approval from the Voting Regula-
tions Board, she said.

““Even if we didn’t vote officially,
I can honestly say there was a unani-
mous agreement on the date,’’ Wight
said. ‘‘There was no dissent at all.
We all sat there with calendars to
work it out.’’

The EC submitted a ‘General
Note’’ on the Big 4 election to the
Phi in January, and that note ap-
peared on Jan. 23. There was no
mention of elections in the Jan. 30
Phi. In the Feb. 6 Phi, elections were
covered as news, and a General Note
reminding students to vote was added
by a Phi editor. There was no sub-
mission of notice of elections by the
EC or the VRB for the Feb. 6 Phi.

Perkins said the constitutional
questions would not affect the elec-
tion’s results.

Senior B.J. League, who began a
write-in campaign for EC president
after she found out that only one
candidate was running, said she will
not protest the election.

**‘Josh [MacFarland] won fair and
square,’’ League said. ‘‘But I hope
future elections are taken a little more
seriously and run properly. I was ...
[disappointed] to learn that there was
even a question as to the constitution-
ality of this election.”’

While MacFarland sau! he was
upset by the early election dates, he
agreed with the EC’s reasoning.

“*March being such a busy month,
I don’t know when else it could have
been held,’’ MacFarland said.

Local woman arrested at pavilion, later charged with arson

 

 

dent gave him the impression that it
was some ‘‘silly kind of stuff.”’

Robert Wilson said the initiation
ceremony is confidential, but nothing
harmful or dangerous occurred.

**There was never any question
of risk,’’ he said. ‘‘Nothing happened
that risked life or limb. . . [or] that
compromised anyone’s morals or
values.”

woman was brought there to be held until she
sobered up and could be released.

Yeager said the woman put a mattress on the
floor, stuffed toilet paper around it, and lit it with
matches.

She was then charged with arson, he said.

No W&L security officers were assigned to
the pavilion that night, but officer Joseph Pelter
said he was called to go there at about 12:45 a.m.
because the woman refused to leave after being

asked to by the people in charge of the party.

Pelter said he called the Lexington Police for
backup before he went to the pavilion.

The pavilion was rented out for that night to
an individual by Assistant Dean of Students Leroy
C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins. Atkins would not give the
person’s name and said he did not know the nature
of the event. He said the pavilion is rented for
private events whenever possible ‘‘in order to keep
the cost of student events down.”’

By GREG PATTERSON

to initate anyone.’’The chapter gave Phi Staff Reporter

the pledges the choice to initiate,
Robert Wilson said, and only two
decided to remain pledges while awa-
iting the appeal.

Delt did not break any rules by
initiating its pledges because its sus-
pension does not take effect until the
appeal is decided, according to Asso-

 

A local woman arrested at the W&L pavilion
and charged with drunk in public is accused of
later setting fire to a mattress in a Rockbridge
County Regional jail cell.

The woman was first arrested at a private
dance at the pavilion on Feb. 2. Capt. James
Yeager, acting administrator at the jail, said the

     
  
 
  

 

 
 

SERVIGDTAR.
LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 South Main St., Lexington, VA 24450 463-2242

MONEY

FOR COLLEGE

Every student is eligible for some

   

     

  
     
     
      
       
      
 

SA Loven’s Caveat

On the current student scene

A matter some may call obscene

Has reared its head and caused a stir
That impacts every him and her

Who finds the idea most attractive

To be what's known as sexually active.

Could count on the pill and penicillin
To keep them safe from sexual dangers,
Even when their partners were strangers.

  

But a new disease has made its arrival
That threatens us all in our basic survival.

 
 

   

       
      
    
 

    

We must not d that nothing is new.
type of financial al reg ardiess Some ny young alia ought say Deans tne tight be ou We ek
2 ese needs un' ie wedding day. jot that we want you to be nervo
of grades or parenta nco But the truth can't be denied . Just to be safer if to choose to capeeun
Z That lckay paam — slide. Sikecnlibeneadien’
bd — : In spite ation ough ni g is perfect when it comes to protection,
Financial Aid

    
 

They won't postpone their love's frustration. The condom is definitely our best selection
For preventing the contact of the HIV virus
With the vulnerable membrances located inside us.
So remember, when bodily fluids are shared

You can't be safe if you aren't prepared.

  
   
    
   

 

 

Available Immediately!

Special grants program
Seon fwd eligible
ag one turned down
Simple application

address and $1 P&H
fee (refundable) to:

   
 

 
 

The problem is that things have changed,
Priorities have been rearranged.
Once the folks who found themselves willin’

   
   

 

 

    

  
 
 
  
   

Send

   
  

 

     

sees ve By Dr. James W. Worth
x University Counseling Prychologiet
Hollywood, FL 33022 ee

 

Sponsored By:
Health Education Committee

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1992

second-half surge pulls Generals past Hornets

 

vHORNETS continued from page 8

 

Rogers followed Watkins with a
three-pointer of his own, and
Lynchburg was forced to take another
time-out.

“If those shots don’t fall, it’s a
completely different game,’’ Watkins
said. ‘‘Luckily, they went in.’’

After Dooms scored, W&L
spread the floor and Newton went
back-door for a lay-up, and the
Generals hit their free throws down
the stretch to hold on for the win.

In the second half, W&L forced
Lynchburg into just 29 percent
shooting and held their own on the
boards.

‘We turned it up in the second

SPORTS
NOTEBOOK

 

Washington and Lee sent
some of its top track and field
performers to New England and
saw three individuals place in
the meet at Williams College.

On the men’s side, junior
Bo Hannah won the 3,000-
meters and freshman Grant
Cowell finished third in the 800-
meters.

On the women’s side,
freshman Sarah Gilbert scored
enough points by herself to
finish ahead of one school.
Gilbert placed third in the high
jump with a jump of five feet,
seventh in the long jump and
eighth in the triple jump. She
also competed in the 55-meter
hurdles and the 200-meter dash.

Former Washington and Lee
lacrosse stand-out Ted Bauer
was inducted into the Lacrosse
Hall of Fame in ceremonies on
Feb. 8 at the Sheraton Towson
Hotel.

Bauer was a three-time first
team Division I All-American
during his playing days at
W&L. Bauer, a 1974 graduate,
led the Generals to the NCAA
Tournament in 1972, 1973 and
1974,

 

 

half,’’ said Canfield. ‘‘Melton did a
good job of shutting down Dooms,
and he looked for his shot and he hit
them tonight.’’

Dooms finished with 20
rebounds, but had just 12 points. Roy
Roberson led LC with 24 points.

Watkins led the Generals with
19 points, and Melton added 15, but
the Generals’ biggest contributions
may have come from two players
who combined for just six points.

Pless and Ehret combined to
anchor W&L’s inside effort in the
second half and combined for 11
defensive rebounds, most coming in
the deciding moments of the game.

“‘Pless and Ehret deserve a lot
of credit,’’ Canfield said. ‘‘Bryant is
working hard to get better, and he’s

Men’s swimming keeps wave rolling,

engulfs Mary Washington 110-95

 

By SEAN O'ROURKE
Phi Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men’s
swimming team is on a roll.

The team has won four meets in
a row with the latest coming Saturday
against a tough Mary Washington
squad. The visiting Generals came
from behind to post a 110-95 victory
and up their season mark to 6-4.

“‘We are very happy with how
we swam,’’ said coach Page
Remillard. ‘‘It was a tough meet and
we handled it extremely well.”’

After the first four events the
Generals trailed 38-35. But in the
fifth race, the 200-yard individual
medley, W&L took the top two spots
to take a 49-43 lead that they never
relinquished.

However, MWC was always in
striking distance and Remillard was
proud of his team’s character under
that kind of pressure.

“It was a pressure-filled meet.
The guys stayed keyed and looked
forward to their events because they
wanted to be the one to clinch the
meet for us,’’ said Remillard.

W&L had a swimmer place first

 

playing well. So is Bob. He gives us
an element we need — physical
play.’’

The two split time in the second
half after Miggins left with the
technical foul.

Despite the strong inside play
on the defensive boards, Canfield
wasn’t pleased with the inside game
on offense.

“‘We passed the ball inside
exactly six times tonight. That’s
pathetic,’’ he said. ‘‘All six times
resulted in scores — five on ball
reversals to outside shots, and one on
Pless’ basket. And when we go
inside, it helps the outside players.”’

Watkins agreed that the
Generals need to go inside more
often.

or second in every event.

 

 

Brown

Freshman John Rowe led the
Generals with first-place finishes in
the 200-yard individual medley, the
200-yard butterfly and the 200-yard
breaststroke. Junior Andrew Pearson
followed with two first-place finishes
in the 50-yard freestyle and the 100-
yard freestyle. Senior Doug Brown
rounded out the first-place finishers
with a victory in the 200-yard

SPORTS |

 

e

“*We need to get the ball inside,
because that opens things up on the
outside,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s so much
easier to shoot when the defender has
to go down and help out than when
he is running at you.”’

Watkins hit two of his three
second-half three-point attempts. They
came off passes from inside players.

W&L, not 6-15 on the year and
3-12 in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference, play Roanoke Saturday
night. The Generals are still trying to
lock up the eighth and final spot in
the ODAC Tournament.

**We haven’t given up yet, and
we’re still working hard,”’ said
Canfield. ‘‘Getting into the
tournament is still our goal, and it is
an attainable one.

 

By JACOB KIMBALL
Phi Staff Reponer

 

The Washington and Lee
wrestling season sounds very much
like a broken record. ‘‘Senior Peer
Soderberg finished second...
second...second...’’

Well Soderberg finished
second again, but he wasn’t the only
one to do well.

Eight W&L wrestlers placed in
the Virginia College Division State
Championships, yet the team still
finished fifth. Longwood College,
winners of the W&L Invitational,
took the team championship.

Senior co-captain Peer
Soderberg led the team by finishing
second in the 177-pound division. In
his third consecutive appearance in a
final, Soderberg went up against Art
Whitaker, his foe in the W&L
Invitational finals. Again Whitaker
proved too experienced, and
Soderberg had to settle for second.
The victories at the meet helped
Soderberg improve his season record

freestyle. to 12-7.

However, it was the consistent

Page 7

Soderberg second again
in State Championships

Freshmen Adam Williams and
John Cochran both captured third
place finishes by winning their
consolation matches. Williams came
back from a broken nose, and
wrestled with a facemask, to defeat
Harold Babetto and up his record to
10-9 on the year. Cochran secured
his third place finish by pinning John
Gerlis late in the third period of their
consolation match.

The Generals had a quartet
finish fourth as John Cherry, Beau
King, Kevin Batteh, and John
Conkling rounded out the scoring for
the team.

The Generals head _ to
Longwood College for a dual meet
tonight, which should be good news
to Soderberg. He is 4-0 in dual
matches this season and he will try to
post his third consecutive victory over
Longwood’s Bryan Hartley.
Soderberg also has added incentive in
this match as his career record stands
at 49-34. He is looking to become the
first W&L wrestler since All-
American Rich Redfoot to win 50
matches in a career.

 

finishes by the rest of the Generals’
swimmers that solidified the victory.
Freshman Grant Holicky posted two
second-place finishes, classmate
Derek DeVries finished in the top
three twice. Chris Hagge, Larry
Brown, Roland Chase and Joe Tison
all posted third-place finishes.

“If our kids didn’t win,”’
Remillard said, ‘‘they finished in the
top three. And that’s what solidified
the win.

The Generals will wind up their
regular season Feb. 16 with a meet at
Radford. After that, it’s on to the
championship season.

However, Remillard isn’t
looking ahead yet. He says the team
is still preparing for the post-season.

“‘The Radford meet will be
different for the swimmers,’’ said

 

   
 

Cea

 

Remillard. ‘‘I want them to swim eg
some different meets, especially ial

sprints, so that they can focus on their

times to carry into the championships. G Oal b oun d

After Radford, the team can really

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 

start to focus and begin to prepare for
the Liberal Arts Invitational.’’
in W&L’s pre-season opener.

 

Freshman Andy Dutton moves in on the goal in Sunday’s
scrimmage with Hartwick. Hartwick topped the Generals 11-6

 

 

 

 

 

    
  

It cant do laundry or find you a date,
but it can help you find more time for both.

The new Apple® Macintosh’ Classic’ II
computer makes it easier for you to juggle
classes, activities, projects, and term papers—
and still find time for what makes college
life real life.

It’s a complete and affordable Macintosh
Classic system that’s ready to help you get
your work finished fast. It’s a snap to set up
and use. It has a powerful 68030 micro-
processor, which means you can run even
the most sophisticated applications with ease.
And its internal Apple SuperDrive™ disk
drive reads from and writes to Macintosh and
MS-DOS formatted disks—allowing you to
exchange information easily with i
almost any other kind of computer.

with large amounts of data.

and it’s affordable.

 

Introducing the Macintosh Classic II.

For further information visit the
Computer Center in Tucker Hall
and ask for Mac McCloud

or call 463-8844

©1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks and SuperDrive is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation
Classic is a registered trademark used under license by Apple Computer, Inc, This ad was created using Macintosh computers

In addition to its built-in capabilities, the
Macintosh Classic II can be equipped with up
to 10 megabytes of RAM, so you'll be able to
run several applications at once and work

If you already own a Macintosh Classic,
and want the speed and flexibility of a
Macintosh Classic II, ask us about an
upgrade—it can be installed in just minutes

To put more time on your side, consider
putting a Macintosh Classic II on your desk.
Se¢ us for a demonstration today, and while

you're in, be sure to ask us for details
: about the Apple Computer Loan.
It'll be time well spent.

 

 
 

 

 

This week’s scores:
Wrestling - 5th at Va. Championships
Basketball - GC 68, W&L 65;
Wa&L 71,
Women's Swimming- W&L 139, HC 123
Men’s Swimming - W&L 110, MWC 95
Track - at Williams meet

LC 65

 

 

 

S

Che Ring-tum Phi

PORTS

 

 

Next week’s games:
Basketball - 2/15 at RC, 2/17 at MWC,

Wrestling - 2/13 at Longwood
Women's Swimming - 2/15 ODAC Sprints,

Men’s Swimming - 2/16 at Radford

2/19 at EMC, 2/22 R-MC

2/16 at Radford

 

 

PAGE 8

 

—

  
 

9

ee

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 
 

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

FEBRUARY 13, 1992

Generals rally to top Lynchburg

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Sports Editor

 

When a team is 5-15, it really
doesn’t care how aesthetically
pleasing a winning performance is.
Just ask Washington and Lee head
basketball coach Verne Canfield.

“I was satisfied only with the
fact that we won,’’ he said after
W&L’s 71-65 win over Lynchburg
last night. ‘I was upset with our lack
of execution, but I was pleased that
we won.”’

After senior Mark Melton hit a
three-pointer to start the game,
Lynchburg scored seven straight
points and Canfield called an early
time-out.

‘‘We weren’t running the
offense and were missing long jump
shots,’ said junior Bryan Watkins.

Women's swimming extends streak

 

By ERIN MCKINNEY
Phi Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee
women’s swimming team won their
14th consecutive Old Dominion
Athletic Conference meet Friday with
a win over Hollins College, 139-123.

“There is usually a pretty good
rivalry with Hollins,’’ said coach Kiki
Jacobs.*‘Everyone was pretty excited
(about the win) because it was a
conference meet.’’

Jacobs felt that the Generals
swam well in all of the individual
events. Three members of the team
each won three races.

Junior Claire Dudley dominated
the breaststroke events. She won first
place in both the 100-yard and 200-
yard races, and she also captured a
first place in the 200-yard freestyle.

Captain Jodi Herring also had
an impressive outing. She claimed
both the 500-yard and 1000-yard
freestyles. Herring finished first in the
200-yard butterfly.

Freshman Susan Fisher had an
impressive showing as well. She took
first place in the 100-yard and 200-

 

yard backstroke. She also claimed top
honors in the 200-yard individual
medley.

Saturday, W&L swam against a
tough Mary Washington team.

 

 

Herring

The Generals lost 110-59 but

coach Jacobs said that ‘‘after having

a meet on Friday, I think that we
swam well.”

Herring was

W&L’s lone

2:24.22.

Dudley turned in a season-best
time in the 200-yard individual
medley. She finished in 2:19.97.

The busy weekend behind them,
the Generals will now look ahead to
their championship season.

 

 

 

 

Dudley
The ODAC Sprint Meet is this
Saturday in the Twombly pool.
According to Jacobs, Hollins
winner. She took home first place in will provide the most competition for |
the 200-yard butterfly with atime of the Generals.

 

 

 

If you never thought a
anything that started with IBM could
be easy to use, an IBM Personal System will
change all that. With preloaded, user-friendly
soltware like Microsoft® Windows™ 3.0, just ;
turn iton and you'll be ready to work—polish-
ing off term papers, moving text and graphics
with the click of a mouse. Work can be—fun.
IBM offers a variety of Selected Academic
Solutions*—a range of PS/2® and PS/1”
models to choose from. And with special stu-
dent prices and affordable loan payments,**

“After I plugged
itin, everything
clicked for me”

  
    

A Se | eS (i
a Se see cm
as - = — =e eee
— = ae eee oe
—_— = = ae oe oe
ae serosa teem te
——<- << ' aa
*This offer is available to nonprofit higher education institutions, their students, faculty and staff, as well as to Nonprofit K-12 institutions, thew faculty and staff
These IBM Selected Academic Solutions are available through participating campus outlets, IBM Authorized PC Dealers certified to remarket Selected Academic
Solutions or IBM 1 800 222.7257 Orders are subject to availability and IBM may withdraw the offer at any time without notice **PS/2 Loan for Learning lets
you borrow $1,500-$8,000. t The Bonus Pack expires December 31, 1991 IBM andPS/2 are registered trademarks and PS/1 1s a trademark of international

Business Machines Corporation Microsoftis a registered trademark and Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation. © 1991 IBM Corp

ee they’re even easy to buy. Act
now and you'll get a special Bonus Packt worth
over $1.000 in savings on air travel, phone
calls, software and more. You probably didn’t
expect that, either. Well,
you learn something new
every dav. After all, isn’t
that what college is all
about? Visit your campus
outlet to find out how to
make an IBM Personal
System click for you.

MIKE SANDRIDGE

  

 
   
  

* 3

#

 

 

“They were getting the long
rebounds and running. Coach told us
if we didn’t start running the offense,
they were going to blow us out of the
gym.””

The Generals responded by
taking an 18-17 lead on a Watkins
three-pointer, but the Homets
bounced back using their rebounding
strength. Daryle Dooms had 11 first-
half rebounds, including six offensive,
and the Hornets regained the lead 32-
30 with 1:27 left.

At halftime, the Generals trailed
36-32, and Canfield was not thrilled.
The Generals were out-rebounded 28-
12 by the Homets, who had 15
offensive rebounds alone. Canfield let
his team know about his displeasure.

“‘Coach gave us the business at
halftime,’’ said Watkins. ‘‘That really
woke us up for the second half.’’

It was a delayed wake-up,
though, because the Hornets opened
up a 46-38 lead after sophomore
Robert Miggins was hit with a
technical foul. It was then the
Generals woke up.

Melton hit a three-pointer, and
sophomore Bryant Pless hit a jump-
hook to cut the lead to 46-43. After
Dooms hit a free throw, Melton
scored again, freshman John Rogers
hit an eight-footer, and sophomore
Matt Newton found a wide-open Bob
Ehret for a lay-up to give the
Generals a 49-48 lead.

While the technical seemed to
spark the team, truth-be-told it was
the defense that got the Generals back

into the game.
“‘We came out and tumed up
the defensive pressure,’’ said

Canfield. ‘‘We trapped and played

aggressively, and that got us going.”’

The Generals forced 10 second-
half tumovers and held the Homets
without a field goal for over six
minutes in the second half. W&L

ar

went on an 11-2 run during that ,

stretch.

Lynchburg weathered W&L’s
first rally to regain the lead at 58-55,
but couldn’t withstand W&L’s final
push.

Senior Courtney Penn followed
a Paul Baker basket with one of his
own to tie the game at 59, and after a
Lynchburg time-out, Watkins gave
the Generals the lead for good with a
three-pointer.

‘*At the time-out, Coach said if
we had an open shot that we needed
to step up and take it,’ Watkins said.

 

HORNETS continued on page 7>

 

 

 

 

 

Sliding home

in Florida next week.

 

 

 

A W&L baseball player slides home safely in a game last year. Despite the snow, baseball season
is set to begin when classes reconvene from break. The Generals will have their Spring Training

 

 

 

PE Rear eee ORIG Ut

Se es ee Se

 

------------"

Shred Center

snowboard ski are just $10.

 

 

Enjoy winter's newest challenge, Snowboard Skiing at
Massanutten. Hone your skills as you 7 from peak to base.
al

Show your skills on our challenging h
Snowboard skiing is permitted on all open slopes and
trails, including our two new slopes from the top of the moun-
tain. Lessons and limited rentals are also available.
College Twilight skiing rates ($12) apply on Monday and
Friday, With your valid college ID and this ad, lift tickets to

Come ski what's new at Massanutten.,

EN MASSANUTTEN — |

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

S) x

ipe.

 

   
   
 
  

CRUISE JOBS

ruise Lines Now Hiring. Earn
$2,000+ per month working on cruise
ships. World travel! Holiday, Sum-
merand Full-time employmentavail-
able. For Employment Program cail
1-206-545-4155 ext. C 328

FREE SPRING BREAK VA-
CATION Organize a group,
earn commissions and free
trips! Call: 800-826-9100.

  
  
 

 

 

cee
V
7

4 bedrooms, 2 baths,
1% miles, Rt. 60 East
July 1, 1992 to
June 30, 1993.

 

 

 

 

463-5383
——
‘ a
auciotronics |
We Sell the Best Seats in the House
DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
MONSTER OPTONICA
KEF cwod
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 
