 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Peruvian source says slain alumnus knew

‘

ix) V
~» Ly

 

THE DAVE:
ASHTIN@TON & LEE Lanes
EXTNGTON, VA. 94465

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 17

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

From The Associated Press

 

LIMA, Peru — More details have been
reported in the murder of journalist Todd C.
Smith, ’83, who was tortured and killed in
Peru in 1989 while investigating drug trading.

According to the daily newspaper Ulti-
ma Hora, Smith had discovered a drug pro-
cessing laboratory and learned when a ship-
ment of coca paste was leaving an airport in

Peru’s jungle.

northeast of Lima.

Ultima Hora claimed to have identified
Smith’s murderers. Smith was found tortured
to death in November 1989 near Uchiza, Peru
in the Upper Huallaga Valley, some 250 miles

The 28-year-old Tampa Tribune reporter
had come to Peru on a working vacation to
look into drug trade in the valley, the source
of about a third of the world’s coca leaf. The
leaf is processed into a paste and shipped to
Colombia to be refined into cocaine.

a $30,000 bounty.

But Ultima Hora said the Shining Path
had nothing to do with Smith’s death and that
he was killed for information he had uncov-
ered about the drug trade.

The newspaper said Saturday that Smith
had unwittingly flown to Uchiza with an air-
taxi company owned by a man suspected of

 

 

sf
Pr
es

 
  

An Interior Ministry investigation found
Smith had been captured by the Maoist Shin-
ing Path rebels and sold to drug traffickers for

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

the report.

being a drug trafficker. The paper said Smith
had discovered a lab belonging to other drug
traffickers as well as their plans for an up-
coming shipment.

Ultima Hora said Smith was waiting for
his flight out of Uchiza when he was abduc-
ted by armed men. The paper said he died
after three days of torture in a hotel owned by
the traffickers.

Peruvian authorities did not comment on

 

de
cd

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

EC President Giles Perkins moderates Tuesday's debate between the College Republicans and the College Democrats.

 

GOP, Dems debate which party should lead

 

By ALISHA JOHNSON
Phi Staff Reporter

 

College Republicans and College Democrats
clashed Tuesday in a debate over which party is
most competent to lead the United States in foreign
and domestic affairs.

Sophomore MacGregor Tisdale defended
President George Bush’s past record in foreign
policy, noting what he called successes, like the
liberation of Kuwait, the removal of drug lord
Manuel Noriega from power in Panama, the remov-
al of the Berlin Wall, and the move of eastern bloc
countries toward new. systems.of government.

But the Democrats held that, despite Bush’s
accomplishments, the president’s views have
shifted to match public opinion.

“The problem with Bush is that he presents
himself as one for human rights, economic well-be-

ing and making the world safe for democracy,”’
sophomore Ben Eggleston said.

“Then he backs down for the sake of eco-
nomics and expediency.”’

Eggleston criticized the Republican’s handling
of the Gulf War and quoted Secretary of State
James Baker, who he said called the Gulf War
“*fundamentally about jobs.’

Sophomore Richard Houston supported the
Republican party.

“Pragmatism is the nature of American poli-
tics,’’ Houston said. ‘‘It is unfortunate, but it is the
case, and George Bush has to work within the
parameters of that.’’ “

Houston lauded Bush, saying that ‘‘commu-
nism, as a principle, is dead in the world. We can
see now in places like North Korea and China ...
there is talk all over about a free market society.”’

Sophomore Democrat Cottie Miles opened the

discussion on domestic policies, asking the audi-
ence, ‘‘Are you any better off now than you were
in 1988?”

Miles evoked the image of an impoverished
family behind a closed curtain and maintained that
Bush has ‘‘closed the curtain on America for four
years. The curtain is bulging.... The Democrats ask
for fairness, that the rich pay their fair share of
taxes. We propose a 10 percent tax cut for the
middle class ... and reform in education.’’

Sophomore Ryan Dennard rebutted Miles’
argument. He said Democrats want to spend more
on health and education while taxes decrease.

‘*The only difference with the Republicans is
that we realize we have to pay for what we get,”’
he said. ‘“‘The idea of ‘playing now and paying
later’ is a problem. The Republicans are offering
prudent solutions to solid problems, long-term in-
vestment to long-term growth.”’

Sr. class
president
faces DUI

By JASON KELLEY
Phi Editor

 

 

Senior Class President and
Student Conduct Committee Member
Read Folline was charged with
driving under the influence early
Sunday morning.

According to police records,
Folline was arrested by Lexington
Police Officer M.J. Bennett at 2:20
a.m. after failing roadside sobriety
checks.

Folline said while he made a
mistake, he feels his ability to judge

cases on the SCC will not be
impaired.
“It’s a personal problem,’’

Folline said. ‘‘I realize that I made a
mistake, but I’m still the same person
that went to the Student Conduct
Committee last week.

“I’m going to talk to Dean
Howison Thursday morning and if he
feels like it’ll be a problem for me to
stay on the SCC, I'll withdraw
myself,”’ he said Wednesday evening.

SCC Chairman Chris Haley, a
senior, agreed that the charge against
Folline would not hamper Folline’s
judgement on SCC cases.

“*Sure, [SCC members] are held
to a higher standard, but the fact that
Read got a DUI has no relevance to

his sitting on the SCC,”’ Haley said. ,

“It’s a personal mistake. He knows
he made a mistake and it’s not going
to affect his judgement on any of our
cases.”’

Haley said the SCC would not
be involved in Folline’s case.

““We don’t hear cases involving
students driving drunk. That’s not a
school matter,’’ Haley said.

Folline’s advisement hearing has
been set for Feb. 25 in the Lexington
Rockbridge General District Court.

 

 

By SUMMER BROWN
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Beginning Monday, Washington
and Lee will join other colleges and
universities across the nation in ob-
serving ‘‘Safer Sex Week.”’

The highlight of the week is a
program entitled ‘‘Frisky Business,’’
which will deal with the prevention of
sexually transmitted diseases.

In order to reach a broader
audience, the Health Education Com-
mittee, which is sponsoring the we-
ek’s activities, has invited student
leaders to attend the program, said
Health Educator Jan Kaufman. Kauf-
man said the committee hopes these
leaders will pass on what they learn
to their respective groups.

“We want to highlight commu-
nication techniques,’’ Kaufman said.

 

Frisky’ week emphasizes
communication and safety

“Getting partners to talk before sex is
equally as important as condom use.”’

Chris Bray, administrative assis-
tant for residence life, said he hopes
students will ask questions.

‘*We need to be there to pro-
vide the information so anyone with
questions about sex issues and STD’s
can learn about solutions.”’

The program will be shown at 7
p.m. Thursday in duPont Hall. As an
additional part of ‘‘Safer Sex Week,”’
a basket of free condoms will be
available outside the infirmary.

Associate Dean of Students
Anne Schroer-Lamont said she hopes
students will realize that W&L is just
a small part of the national problem
of sexually transmitted diseases.

“It is important work because
students need a higher level of aware-
ness,”’ she said.

 

 

 

Candidates hit the pavement

 

By BRIAN ROOT

 

Phi Staff Reporter
Because

only about | Low turnout at
30 people | Big 4 forum
showed up | forces
a hear the | candidates

ig Four
candidates to campaign
speak at elsewhere
Tuesday’s
forum in

Lee Chapel, it’s become more impor-
tant than ever for the 14 prospective
officers to take their messages on the
road.

“Hi guys, sorry to disturb you
during dinner. My names’s Josh Mc-
Farland, and I’m running for presi-
dent of the Executive Committee,”’

said the candidate to the Sigma Chi
fraternity Tuesday night. ‘‘I’m run-
ning unopposed right now, which is
kind of an embarrassing situation. I’m
trying to get my message out anyway,
because I don’t want to lose to Mick-
ey Mouse, or some other write-in
candidate.”’

Sophomore Blair Hixson, a can-
didate for EC secretary, said personal
appearances before Monday’s election
are the key to having name recogni-
tion.

“It’s really difficult to get in
touch with people,’’ Hixson said.
“With the turnout so low [at the
candidates’ forum], it’s important to
get people to know you.”’

The candidates are taking varying
approaches meeting and greeting
student voters this week.

Hixson said she was mainly
going door-to-door in the dormitories,
rather than going to group meetings.

“I think by going door-to-door,
you make it easier for them to be
able to pick you out at the election,’’
she said.

EC vice-presidential candidate
Ames Hutton said he was concentrat-
ing on appearing at fraternity and
sorority meetings.

“T hit a couple sorority meetings
Monday night and I went to a few
houses tonight [Tuesday],”” he said.

“The important thing is to get
them to put a name with your face,”’
Hutton said. ‘‘But more importantly,
I’m trying to get to know someone in
each house, someone that the mem-
bers know well who can speak up for
me after I leave.’’

hc

™ ~“|Hudnall indicted

 

FEBRUARY 6, 1992

too much

Smith was
murdered in
Peru in 1989

|on five charges

Cadet to be tried in March, April

 

By CATHY LOPICCOLO
Phi News Editor

 

The former VMI cadet accused
of raping one W&L student and rob-
bing another will face two separate
trials this spring on a total of five
criminal charges, including a breaking
and entering charge added by the
Rockbridge County grand jury Mon-
day.

The grand jury indicted Monday
Chad Edward Hudnall, 18, of New-
port News, on charges of rape, sod-
omy, grand larceny and two counts of
breaking and entering.

Police originally charged Hud-
nall with breaking and entering only
in connection with the larceny. How-
ever, on Monday the grand jury add-
ed an additional breaking and entering
charge to the rape and sodomy charg-
es.

Hudnall, who withdrew from
Virginia Military Institute in October,
is scheduled to be tried March 11 for
rape and sodomy, according to a
county Circuit Court clerk. She said
the grand jury’s second breaking and
entering charge will probably be tried
at the same time.

Hudnall will go to trial April 3
for breaking and entering, and grand
larceny, according to the clerk.

He is currently being held at
Rockbridge County Regional Jail.

Hudnall is accused of raping and
sodomizing a W&L freshman in her
Gilliam Dormitory room on Oct. 13.
Junior Christin Harvey also alleges
that Hudnall broke into her room in
the same building and stole $354.

In a preliminary hearing Dec. 17,
an 18-year-old W&L freshman testi-
fied that she awoke about 4 a.m. on
Oct. 13 to find Hudnall naked and on
top of her. She said Hudnall forced
her to perform oral sex and raped her.

The woman said that when Hud-
nall released her, she ran into the hall
and screamed for help. Three male
WA&L students detained Hudnall until
W&L Security arrived.

Harvey testified that she was not
in her room on the morning of Oct.
13, but that when she returned that
night, over $300 was missing. Harvey
said she had left her door unlocked
while she was away.

Harvey also said someone had
drawn in lipstick on her mirror and
had burned part of a photograph in
her room.

Lab tests later identified a finger-
print on the scorched picture as be-
longing to Hudnall.

Police did not find the missing
money during a search of Hudnall’s
room at VMI. However, another cadet
turned over $354 to police a few days
later. He said he found the cash in
one of Hudnall’s boots.

 

 

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, Washington and Lee

 

Artist Branko Medenica, the sculptor in charge of restoring Old

George, and James Whitehead,

director of the Reeves Center,

examine the eight-foot statue in its crate.

George comes home

 

From the W&L News Office

 

After almost two years, Old
George, the wooden statue of George
Washington that stood atop Washing-
ton Hall for a century and a half, has
been restored and has come home.

A bronze replica of the statue

will be placed on Washington Hall in
May. The site for permanent display
of the original Old George has yet to
be determined.

Old George was carved in
1842 by Matthew Kahle, a Lexington
cabinetmaker. The statue stands eight
feet tall and weighs 700 pounds.

 

 

picks its plays

 
    

page 4

Alum learns to live
with HIV infection

page 5

 

 

page 6

Candidates for the
‘Big Four’ speak out

 

 
ahi
|

Page 2 The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1992

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

Media marred by
Flowers frenzy

This week’s Time magazine claims the mainstream media
in America ‘‘reacted with unusual restraint’’ in its coverage
of the allegations by Gennifer Flowers that she had a 12-
year affair with Democratic presidential candidate Bill
Clinton. Wrong. The press’s most recent feeding frenzy was
marked by anything but restraint.

After the supermarket tabloid the Star paid Flowers an
estimated $130,000 to $175,000 to tell her story, members
of the mainstream press figured they’d better cover the story
lest their competitors scoop them. Heaven forbid someone
else might exercise bad taste before they did.

The best excuse the managing editor of The Washington
Post could come up with for running the story was that if
the Post didn’t tell its readers about the Flowers allegations,
readers might get the idea that the Post made a habit of not
reporting everything it found out about. Is this man looking
to have his job eliminated? If the Post really printed
everything it found out about, it would not need a managing
editor, whose job we thought it was to decide which stories
should be printed. Editors are the human filter built into the
media machine.

Similarly, television executives argue that allowing
cameras to cover trials live (like CNN’s coverage of the
Palm Beach rape case) is the same as allowing reporters to
cover the trials with a pencil and pad. ‘“‘It’s only allowing
the freedom of the press to keep up with technology,’’ they
say. Wrong again. A live camera shows everything, while a
reporter can balance the pros and cons of describing a
particular scene or using a particular quote. The element of
human understanding and compassion in reporting (while
often times hard to distinguish) is one of the essential
ingredients that makes the press an asset to society. Without
it, the press would be simply a babbling nuisance that
harmed many and aided few.

Where do we place the blame for the media’s behavior
in the Flowers’ story? It could be argued that the press, like
everyone else, is just out to make a buck. The press
couldn’t make a living supplying such stories if there wasn’t
a demand from the public. But that doesn’t make it right.
Crack dealers couldn’t make a living either if there wasn’t
a demand for their product.

It’s obvious that tabloid joumalism hurts _ those
scandalized in the stories. But it also hurts the readers by
sending the false message that the people have the right to
know everything about everyone, that nothing is too personal
to be aired in public. The press as a lookout for the ills of
our society is the enlightened inheritance from’ our
forefathers. The press as a prying, gossipy tell-all is the evil
invention of our own time.

And the winner
is... NO Surprise

Apathy on this campus has struck again. But this time it
has struck at the very core of campus leadership and
tradition. The president of the Executive Committee, the
chief spokesman of our cherished Honor System, will be
elected Monday from a slate of one. No offense to Josh
MacFarland, but we hardly believe that he is the only person
qualified to run for this important position.

But in this case apathy might not be the only problem.
The responsibility for informing potential candidates falls to
the Voting Regulations Board. The VRB not only oversees
elections, but gets the voters informed and out to vote. They
failed at announcing the upcoming elections. Signs should
have been everywhere, but there were very few. The notices
that were up to solicit candidates were complicated and dull;
they lacked creativity. Now the VRB is failing at informing
the public about the candidates that are running. The
candidate’s forum held yesterday afternoon seemed like a
spur-of-the-moment affair with publicity to match. As can
be expected, only about 30 people showed up. What’s next?
Dare we assume the voting boxes will be out?

 

|

OPINION

——— a |

 

STUBENTS — yoTS CAzEFUUY on MONDAY. THE 6.0 IS ThE BALKBONE oF ou

Honoe SYSTEM , 50 We

MUST CAHOOSE THE BEST POSS BLE Peeser aS MS LenpsR-
IT FSECOMMEND A MBuc ABRATE TO HELP WI THE Deasion-

 

/
Woe

as

JOSH

 

T HoNesT4 Fee THAT LI am The @ST

MANS Fok THE JOR BecauS€ wet, I EXIST,

4

_

 

 

OMmER

DADLLOM.

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley
Cathy Lopiccolo
Thomas Eisenhauer
Joshua Manning
Jay Plotkin
Francesca Kefalas
Craig Burke

Leigh Allen

Tim Molloy

B.J. Gamboa

News Editor

Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor
Entertainment Editor
Assignment Editor
Photo Editor
Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

    

Spectator fake ad
continues attack

To the Editor:

Like the proverbial dog returning to its
vomit, the Spectator just had to renew its disgust-
ing attack upon the people who clean fraternity
halls and bathrooms. I refer to the satirical ad
appearing on page 11 of the campus rag’s latest
issue (February 1992). The Spectator babies seem
to think that the maintenance staff are lucky to be
scrubbing their floors. The sight of ‘‘young bare-
chested college men in their boxers when you
wake them up at ungodly hours of the morning,’
according to the Spectator, is ample motivation
for grown men and women to get up even earlier
in order to clean up the ‘‘men’s’’ messes.

I won’t speculate on the extent to which
visions of boxer-clad youths excite the Spectator
babies; but I do have two suggestions for them.
First, think about how your purported icon,
General Lee, would look upon the mean-spirited,
sneering joy you take in degrading people less
economically fortunate than you. And then, you
pampered scum, you might try doing some real
work yourselves and see how you like it.

As ever,
Niall MacKenzie, ’93

Please control
Colonnade pets

To the Editor:

The University Security Department has
received several complaints recently concerning
dogs on campus grounds. These complaints range
from dogs running loose, to dogs barking and
disturbing classes and work areas, to dogs fight-
ing and frightening people who are walking in
the area. The number of dogs on campus during
the school day seems to be increasing, and direct
control over the animals is decreasing. Lexington
city ordinances require that dogs be on leashes.

In the interest of being good neighbors and
community members, anyone bringing a dog to
campus should be more responsible in the care
and handling of their dogs. It seems unfair to the
dog that it be tied to a bench or tree all day. We
are asking that persons who are doing this please
consider leaving their pets at home. Dogs are
wonderful companions, but they require responsi-
ble care. Questions and comments can be directed
to the Security Department at 463-8427.

Sincerely,
Michael L. Young
Director of Security

Lip synch contest
a great success

To the Editor:

The sixth annual Students Against Multiple
Sclerosis (SAMS) Rock Alike Contest is history.
Although the rumor that Mrs. Thatcher was to
perform the opening act was unfounded, everyone
who is anyone in the W&L community was there.
How about 19 acts, 728 paid admissions and
gross proceeds of $3,215 toward the fight against
Multiple Sclerosis, the crippler of predominantly
young adults?

How do we begin to thank all of the volun-
teers who gave their time and energy to make the
evening such a smashing success? To our es-
teemed judging panel — Professors Campbell,
Spice, Sanders, Rush, Goldsmith and Boswell —
it was evident that the crowd totally agreed with
your selections. To MCs Andrew Keller and Billy
Brinkman, Bob Dunlap, Chris Smith and Hunter
Catlett, security managers John Hufnagel, Gordon
Wilkens and their staffs. To Tidge Roller, Scott
Dittman and Baner, the first members of the
W&L staff to perform at Lip Synch (and the
crowd loved it — we are looking for faculty
involvement on stage next year). Thanks to the
Student Activities Board and Buildings and

 

LETTERS

Grounds for their usual fine cooperation. Thanks
also to all the acts who did such a great job in
their support for this worthy cause. To all the
other volunteers and to all the spectators who
came out and paid three dollars for a night of
total enjoyment — they certainly got their mon-
ey’s worth.

And certainly, we must congratulate our
winners: 1st place — Cheeze Whiz who wowed
the crowd with their version of ‘‘Copacabana,”’
2nd place — Stickman and the Cat Walks who
brought the house down with ‘I’m Too Sexy”’
and 3rd place — The Bozaks who had the judges
on their feet dancing to ‘‘Motown Philly.’’ The
taped performance of the top two acts will be
sent to New York to compete in the national
contest. Twelve finalists will be selected to
perform live on MTV at Daytona Beach in March

“(remember, the FIJIs won the national contest in

1990 and took home a new Ford Thunderbird).

But the biggest thanks and ovation is saved
for the event organizers, our SAMS committee:
Clayton Kennington, Karen Halsell, Michael
Patrick and Morgan Warmer. These four began
organizing the ’92 event last January, immediate-
iy following the ’91 event. Many hours were
spent last spring, this past fall and then, following
Christmas break, it became full-time work. With
the help of their friends, they organized the event,
physically did all the magnificent decorating,
physically set up the Pavilion, had their specific
roles during the Friday evening show and finally,
with the help of Scott Dittman and Bob Dunlap,
stayed until 1 a.m. Saturday cleaning up. Guys,
you four were the best, you couldn’t have given
more of yourselves. You have my respect and
admiration for a job well done. As they say in the
United Way campaign: Thanks to all of you, it
works, the W&L way!

Sincerely,
Jerry Darrell
SAMS Advisor

p.s. — Video copes of the edited version of the
show will be available for sale in the Snack Bar.
Watch for details!

Student defends
Phi coverage

To the Editor:

In response to the letter last week from
Niall MacKenzie (‘‘Student protests Thatcher
Coverage’’), I would like to say that I considered
it to be quite unfair. The purpose of the Phi is to
bring recent, unbiased news to the student body.
In its third page coverage of Thatcher’s lecture,
I'd say the staff did just that. Though we may not
all like Margaret Thatcher or everything she has
ever done, it was cruel to accuse the Phi of
political bias, which it clearly avoided. I am
looking forward to Mr. MacKenzie’s opinion on
her lecture, but let’s not ‘‘protest’’ objective
reporting that might be interesting to some stu-
dents.

Sincerely,
Finbar B. Burke, 95

SAC: Vote and
vote wisely

To the Editor:

Last year, the Student Affairs Committee
worked hard to redesign the Student Conduct
Committee. One of our primary goals was to
make the SCC more responsive to student disci-
plinary issues. In addition to granting the SCC
autonomy from SAC, we developed, in coopera-
tion with the Executive Committee, the election
of the Student Conduct Committee chairman into
a ‘‘Big Four’’ election.

This month, for the first time in Washington
and Lee history, the chairman of the Student
Conduct Committee will be directly elected by

   

the student body. In the past, the chairman has
been appointed by the EC. We urge all students
to give this election special attention... When it
comes time to vote, support the candidate who
best represents the qualities of integrity, maturity
and honor that make Washington and Lee a
special place.

 

Sincerely,

The Members of the Student Affairs Committee:
David Howison, Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins, Cinda
Rankin, Robert de Maria, Alexandra Brown,
Giles Perkins, Gregory Hicks, Robert Weisgerber,
Christopher Haley and M. Peebles Harrison.

Junior president
discusses election

Members of the Student Body:

The season of school elections is once again
upon us. The familiar Big Three offices remain
for your approval, but they have been joined this
year by the president of the Student Conduct
Committee. Formerly, the president of the SCC
was appointed by the Executive Committee from
a pool of interested parties, usually existing class
officers. But last year, in an attempt to foster
greater student involvement in the SCC, the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee voted to alter the format
of selection to a school-wide election of SCC
president. This election would occur in conjunc-
tion with the existing Big Three, but would
require a devilishly clever new appellation: the
Big Four.

All levity aside, this is the first time that the
students have had direct control over the leader-
ship of the SCC, and this responsibility warrants
deliberate consideration. The president of the
SCC plays a very important role in student affairs
at Washington and Lee. The SCC president is
responsible for receiving complaints of alleged
misconduct, conducting a preliminary investiga-
tion and then presiding over hearings, for starters.
The new SCC constitution, approved last year by
SAC, is somewhat vague on procedure. This
allows for a myriad of interpretations by the
president. A candidate without experience in
previous SCC matters would have a more diffi-
cult time constructing a judicial environment that
is fair to all parties involved than someone with
practical experience and an historical perspective
on procedure. The SCC is not a dog-and-pony
show; it has dealt with in the past, and will
continue to deal with issues of gravity for those
involved and the entire W&L community. The
SCC president provides the third of the four
voting members of SAC elected by the students.
As everyone should know, SAC is by far the
most powerful committee at W&L in terms of
influence on far-reaching aspects of student life,
and its membership should be of great concern to
us all.

The aforementioned are some of the factors
at stake in the election of the president of the
SCC... I would just like to encourage all members
of the student body to make themselves more
aware of the issues and candidates involved in
Monday’s Big Four elections, and, most impor-
tantly, vote accordingly.

Sincerely,
Richard Burke
President, Class of '93

 

For the Record:
Error in My View

Correction

There was an error in the last paragraph of
the My View entitled ‘“The current system puts
houses above students’’ by William C. ‘‘Burr’’
Datz, '75 on page two of last week's issue of The
Ring-tum Phi. The sentence should read: ‘‘...But
the most important part of this, or any other
Greek system, is the people who comprise it....’’

 

 

 

1 Ae ee ee te to eae mes fein nn ten
The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1992

 

 

 

Media blitz

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

Mock Convention worker Muriel Foster explains the MC weekend to Stop In’s Bobby Beard. During
Tuesday’s ‘media blitz,” students familiarized local businesses with the coming activities.

 

_ Magazine

receives half

its budget

By CATHY LOPICCOLO
Phi News Editor

The W&L Publications Board
Monday allocated one-half the money
requested for the new student news
magazine and said it would transfer
the rest after the magazine’s editor
revises his list of story ideas.

Jimmy Walsh, editor of the new
magazine, The Footbridge, presented

 

 

the first issue’s budget and list of

stories at Monday’s board meeting.

Walsh requested $397 for a 24-
page magazine or $344 for 20 pages.
Story ideas included interviews with
alumni, play reviews and columns.

The board members expressed
concern because Walsh did not pro-
pose news articles or news-features.

‘‘When we first talked about
starting the new magazine, my motion
was to create a news magazine,”’ said
Tonya Yoder, Pub Board vice presi-
dent and Ariel editor. ‘‘Jimmy had
good ideas and interesting opinion
articles, but I wish there had been
more news.’

Walsh said he was happy, with —

the’ original story ideas, but'that add-
ing news would not be a problem.
‘*People were just more interest-
ed in writing features and opinion,”’
Walsh said. ‘‘We’ll just have to make
a conscious decision to balance it.’’
Walsh wanted to publish the
first issue of The Footbridge in late

February or early March, but the Pub

Board recommended he wait until
mid-March so he has time to plan
more news stories.

The board voted to give the

magazine $175 immediately, one-half
of the amount Walsh said he needed

for a 20-page issue. The Pub Board

_ said it will transfer the other $175
after it approves a revised story list.
The first issue of The Foot-
bridge will be funded by the board.

Board President and Ring-tum Phi
Editor Rick Peltz said the second
issue must show that the magazine
can support itself with advertising

revenues.

    

 

 

 

Ben Brown, ’94, Chester, N.J.
“T like the ones that, you .

know, don’t take roll. I don’t
know, I| really don’t go to class
much.”’

 

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

Dance aids grad’ s son

 

By JENNIFER MAYO
Phi Staff Reporter

 

The 14th annual Muscular Dys-
trophy Superdance will be for some-
one close to Washington and Lee’s
heart.

Proceeds from this weekend’s
fundraiser will go to: research for
Andrew Slay, the son of Joe Slay,
72. Andrew was born with Spinal
Muscular Atrophy, the number one
killer of children under two years old.

“This year is exciting because
it’s the first year that we have target-
ed the money to a specific case of
Muscular Dystrophy,’’ said Laura
Hendrey, Superdance co-chairman.

Last year the event raised
$27,000, and this year’s goal is to
match or surpass that total.

“So far we are ahead of last
year’s totals,’” said Co-Chairman Fred
Renneker, ‘‘and we still have to col-
lect admissions to the bands [for]
both nights, which last year totaled
$9,000.’

Students who pledged to dance
have each collected donations of at
least $100, promising to dance for 14
hours on Friday and Saturday. Each

 

Renneker
co-chairs
fundraiser

 

of the fraternities and sororities has
members participating in the dance.

Several W&L_ organizations
have also donated money to the
cause, including the Executive Com-
mittee, the Student Telephone Union
and the Student Bar Association.

A total of eight bands will per-
form during the weekend. Friday
night features the ‘Battle of the
Bands,”’ with six local bands compet-
ing and opening for Boy-O-Boy, the
main attraction. Saturday night will
feature Friday night’s first- and sec-
ond-place winners opening for The
Truly Dangerous Swamp Band.

Admission for both Friday and
Saturday nights is $7. If tickets are
bought separately, Friday costs $3
and Saturday costs $5.

 

 

Page 3

 

|PHC may
get vote
in March

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi Staff Reporter

The faculty will decide March 3
if the Panhellenic Council will get a
vote on the Student Affairs Commit-
tee.

Dean of Students David Howi-
son said he expects the faculty to
approve the proposal to give PHC a
vote on SAC, even though the faculty
defeated a similar proposal two years
ago.

“I feel very confident that the
faculty will support this measure,”’
Howison said.

Howison and Executive Com-
mittee President Giles Perkins, who
sits on SAC, introduced the proposal
Monday at the faculty’s monthly
meeting. The faculty has 30 days to
consider the idea before voting on it
March 3.

The proposal would make the
PHC president a voting member of
SAC, giving students a 6-5 majority
on the committee. Currently, five stu-
dents, three faculty members and two
administrators sit on SAC.

Associate Professor of Romance
Languages Kathy Jo Koberstein, who
led the opposition to a similar propos-
al two years ago, said the faculty is
likely to oppose SAC’s proposal be-
cause of the numerical imbalance that
it would create between students and
faculty on the committee.

‘I’m not opposed to Panhel
having a vote on SAC,’’ Koberstein
said. ‘‘The addition of a student
needs to come in a way that won’t
give the students a majority on the
committee.’

J. Holt Merchant, professor of
history, said he favors giving PHC a
vote on SAC, provided that a sixth
faculty member is also added to the
committee.

Howison said SAC would con-
sider that option if the present propos-
al were defeated.

‘‘T respect faculty caution in this
matter,’” Howison said.

 

Wanted: Religion, Japanese, French profs

 

By ERIN MCKINNEY
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Come September, students will
have to start new cold-test files for
three departments.

The religion, Japanese and ro-
mance language departments are
searching for new faculty members.

Professor Harlan Beckley, head of
the religion department, said the de-
partment needs someone to teach East
Asian religion. Professor Minor Rog-
ers, who died in August, previously
taught the classes.

Graduate students from the Uni-
versity of Virginia were hired to teach
the classes this year, but the depart-
ment wants a professor who can take
over permanently, Beckley said.

‘‘We have been advertising and
have contacted numerous graduate
schools,’’ he said, and the department
has received many applications.

‘‘We are considering [a range of
candidates from] those who are senior

What is your

Catherine Harris, ’92,
Chester, Va. — ‘‘Dr. Ray
because he wears a Shakespeare
te.

“professors to those who have just

completed their doctorates,’ he said.

The . Japanese department is
searching for a teaching assistant to
help handle the increasing number of
students taking Japanese classes, said
Ken’ichi Ujie, assistant professor of
Japanese. The department now has
two full-time professors and one
teaching assistant.

‘*(A] qualified candidate from a
private school in Tokyo was recom-
mended,’’ Ujie said. ‘‘We are im-
pressed with both the candidate and
his resume.”’

The romance languages depart-
ment is planning ahead to meet its
upcoming need for a French teacher.
Edward Hamer, professor of romance
languages, is in ‘‘phased retirement’
and his responsibilities will decrease
gradually, said Russell Knudson,
associate professor of romance lan-
guages. He said the department is
searching for someone to ‘‘phase in.”’

‘*This ‘changeover’ method will

 

Beckley

be very advantageous to everyone
involved,’’ Knudson said. He said the
new job will be a permanent one.

According to Knudson, the de-
partment originally received almost
100 applications for the position.

‘*One of the most important ques-
tions to be considered during the
selection process,’’ Knudson said,
‘tis, ‘How comfortable will everyone
be working together?’ ”’

 

TALKBACK

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Classical Music
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s radio station, WLUR-FM
(91.5) will present a ‘‘Classical
Music Marathon’’ from 9 a.m.
to 6 p.m. on Feb. 14 before
signing off for Washington
break. The radio station will
resume broadcasting on Feb. 23.
The marathon will be hosted by
David Cobb and William
Cooper. Listeners may make
requests for the program by
calling 463-8444.

Oxford

Washington and Lee is one of
six schools that sponsor a
summer program of study at St.
Anne’s College, Oxford,
England. The Virginia Program
at Oxford follows the English
tutorial system and studies the
subject area of literature and
history of Tudor/Stuart England.
The program runs from June 29
thru Aug. 8. The application
deadline is March 2. See Prof.
Pamela Simpson in the Art
Department for more informa-
tion.

LSAT

Last chance! The Kaplan Prep
Course for the June LSAT
begins on Feb. 9, from 2-6 p.m.
in Commerce School room 221.
To enroll, enquire at the Career
Development and Placement
Office.

Writing Center
The Writing Center is open for
winter term Tuesday through
Thursday from 7-10 p.m. in
Payne 2B. Students who want
help with writing projects of any
kind are encouraged to sign up
or to stop by for an individual
conference with a writing tutor.
This semester we have double
tutors available on Thursday

nights.
Vote

Don’t forget to vote in the ‘‘Big
Four’’ elections on Monday.
Voting spots in the ODK circle,
in. front~ of the University
Library and at the Law School.

Lacrosse

The first men’s lacrosse
scrimmage of the year will be
held on Sunday at 1 p.m. The
location is to be determined.
Good weather site: the lacrosse
practice field. Bad weather site:
Glen Maury Park in Buena
Vista.

Lost

A bluish-purple senior class ring
was lost the Saturday of lip
synch weekend on or around
campus. The ring is engraved
with ‘‘William Toles’’ inside. If
you have any information about
the ring, call 464-6272

Eastern Europe

The International Club will
sponsor a discussion session on
the political and economic
future of Eastern Europe and
Russia on Tuesday, Feb. 11 at 7
p.m. in the Fairfax Lounge.
Oxford Exchange Graduate
Student Alasdair McGowan will
lead the discussion. Group
participation is welcomed.
Refreshments will be served.

Kathekon
Kathekon, W&L’s | student
alumni association, is now
accepting applications for
membership from __ interested
members of the student body.
Kathekon membership is open
to rising juniors and seniors.
Applications are available at the
Alumni House or outside Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center. They will be due by
March 4,

Superdance
Superdance will be held on Feb.
7 and 8 in the Pavilion. The
Battle of the Bands will be held
on Friday night. Boy-O-Boy
will also perform on Friday. The
winner of the Battle of the
Bands and the Truly Dangerous
Swamp Band will perform on
Saturday night.

Karate
Anyone interested in forming a
Karate/self-defense/kickboxing
club, please call Tim Vanderver
at 464-6273.

Ski Team

If you know anything about the
Status of this year’s W&L Ski
Club/Team, Please call Josh at
463-5117.

Workshop
In answer to student requests,
CD&P has added another
workshop on ‘‘Interviewing:
Avoiding the Pitfalls,’’ to be
held on Feb. 10, from 4-5 p.m.
in University Center room 108.

Wanted

The Pub Board is now accepting
applications for all editor and
business manager positions for
1992-93 board publications. See
the Pub Board ad on page 6 in
this issue of The Ring-tum Phi.

Get It Out

Need to get a message to the
student body? Put it in the
General Notes. Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office at room 208 of the
University Center.

Jameson Leonardi compiled the
General Notes.

 

 

 

Mallory Meyers, ’95, Novelty, Ohio, and Amy French, ’95, Paradise

Valley, Ariz, —

‘One that can deal.’’

 

 

Alex Ruskell,
Texas —
knows my name,”’

94, Houston,
**Someone that

 

 

 

Winthrop
Spartanburg, S.C. —
that makes me work very hard
to challenge myself.’’

Alen, ‘$2,

“One

 

 
Page 4

HIV-infected alumnus
pushes playing it safe

 

By JOYCE BAUTISTA
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee alumnus
Edwin Wright is one of the one mil-
lion people in the United States in-
fected with the AIDS virus.

Wright, °78, said he knows of at
least six W&L alumni who have died
from the human immunodeficiency
virus.

‘“T’m not the first W&L grad
who has been stricken with HIV,”’ he
said, ‘‘and I will not be the last.’’

Wright said he stopped hiding
his homosexuality in 1982, and he
suspected for over five years that he
may have been exposed to the virus.

‘“‘Because I was in a risk
group,”’ he said, ‘‘the possibility was
always hanging over my head. I don’t
know who, I don’t know when. I just
hope it was a good time.”’

But Wright said he looked and
felt healthy, so he resisted his doc-
tor’s attempts to make him take an
AIDS test until 1985.

‘I was asymptomatic,”’ he said.
‘“‘[My doctor] had to pretty much
bludgeon me into taking the test.

“I was devastated,” Wright
said. ‘‘When I heard that I had tested
positive, it felt like a trap had fallen
from beneath my feet.’

Later that year, Wright became
interested in helping those afflicted
with the disease when he read a se-
ries of articles in a Philadelphia news-
paper about a 22-year-old man who
was dying of AIDS.

‘I was afraid I could be one of
those people,’’ he said, ‘‘someone
who lost his job and lost touch with
his friends and family.”’

So since late 1985, Wright, who
is a paralegal for Aetna Life and
Casualty, has served as a volunteer
‘buddy,’ or friend and confidant for
people who have tested HIV-positive.
Additionally, he has chaired the
buddy program at AIDS Project Hart-
ford for the last three years.

During his time as a buddy,
Wright always knew that one day he
might himself be the recipient of the
program’s generosity, according to

Aetna Sphere, an Aetna publication.

“‘That’s one of the reasons I
went into it,’’ Wright said. *‘I thought
that I’d sure want someone to be
there for me. And how could I expect
that to happen if I was never willing
to do it for someone else?’’

He said he decided not to run
for an office in last week’s AIDS
Project Hartford election.

“*T just want to be a client for
awhile,’’ Wright said.

AIDS was not even the known
in 1978, Wright said. Fortunately for
him, he said, he has a strong support
system.

“I’ve been lucky in that re-
gard,’’ he said. ‘‘I have the complete
support of everyone I work with, my
family and my friends.”’

Of course, some people still fear
the disease and his imminent death.

‘*Fear has only come from those
who care,’’ he said. ‘‘Most people
don’t want to talk about it, but I don’t
want to dismiss reality.”’

Wright said combatting the
disease requires a national, rational
focus. Instead, he said, it is often
treated as a social stigma, perpetuat-
ing the fear and revulsion many peo-
ple feel toward AIDS.

‘*AIDS is not caused by [intra-
venous] drug use or homosexual sex,
it is a virus,’’ Wright said. ‘‘It is
simply passed by these and other
activities.”

According to the Centers for
Disease Control, AIDS is transmitted
through shared intravenous drug
needles and unprotected sexual con-
tact. A very small number of people
have contracted AIDS through blood
transfusions.

Wright said education is the
best way to alleviate the ignorance
and fear surrounding AIDS.

“*Until the subject is dealt with
on an intelligent level,’’ he said,
‘‘nothing is going to happen to stop
it”

Citing the fact that AIDS has
not changed his appearance, Wright
stressed the importance of ‘‘playing it
safe’’ when it comes to unprotected

Sex.

 

| W&LIF

senate

aad aii al

Photo courtesy of Aetna Insurance

Wright tested HIV positive in 1985 and has been working to help
others afflicted with AIDS ever since.

“If someone is going to indulge
in high-risk behavior,’’ he said,
“‘there are ways to make the risk low
or none at all. Don’t be fooled by
appearances. If [you are] worried
about the risk, don’t be talked out of
that risk.”’

Wright said he still shows no
symptoms of AIDS and hopes to live
five to seven more years. But he said
he realizes there is no immediate
hope for a cure to the disease.

“*I know what’s going to hap-
pen,’’ he said. ‘‘I just don’t know
when.”’

As a buddy, Wright has watched
four people die from the symptoms of
AIDS and knows of many others, but
he said knowing what to expect does-
n’t make facing death easier.

“‘T know exactly what I’m in
for,’’ he said. ‘“That takes away a lot
of the hope that comes with being
ignorant. You know what they say,
‘Ignorance is bliss.’

“I’m just wondering when the

.use is going to go off and I'll be-
come ill,”’ he said.

Wright said people say they are
amazed to find him the same funny
“‘character’’ he has always been,
““but I can’t say that I am.”’

Still, he said he has no ‘‘big
trip’’ to take or ‘‘big goal’’ to accom-
plish before he dies.

“If I died tomorrow,”’ he said,
“IT wouldn’t be cheated out of any
specific dream.”’

Wright said he just wants to live
as he always has. He wants to keep
working and seeing his friends, he
said.

Wright currently works with
AIDS Project Hartford in a support
group for those infected with and
affected by the virus. Recently, he
spoke at the University of Hartford to
help educate others on the disease.

“‘T just want to help prevent it
from happening [to others] so some-
one can live,’’ he said. ‘‘There isn’t
any reason for anyone else to die.’’

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1992

 

By BABLI SINHA
Phi Staff Reporter

Who’s older than 22, sits in the
back row of a classroom and never
takes exams?

Well, he’s probably a professor,
and maybe someone like Arthur Gol-
dsmith, associate prof. of economics.

Since his arrival at Washington
and Lee last year, Goldsmith has
taken two undergraduate classes in
the psychology department and is
currently enrolled in Psychology 113:
Principles of Development. He man-
ages to do all this despite a heavy
teaching and research schedule.

‘“Education and learning is a life-
long opportunity,’’ he said.

Goldsmith said taking classes
allows him to continue the learning
process, to identify more with ‘‘the
undergraduate experience,’’ to see
“‘other teachers in action,’’ and to
contribute insights into his research.

He said it is vital to ‘‘be exposed
to different people with different
talents and scholarly interests.”’

In fact, Goldsmith’s study of psy-
chology has contributed ‘‘a certain
richness’’ to his research, he said.

 

 

Prof turns student

One of his current projects is ‘‘to
expand conventional macroeconomic
models to account for relevant theo-
ries developed by psychologists.”’

The project focuses on introduc-
ing the cognitive, motivational and
emotional _ ef-
fects of prior
exposure to un-
employment
into economic
models intend-
ed to explain
current wages,
and job status.

Goldsmith
and Assistant
Prof. of Eco-
nomics Michael
Anderson have
produced and
are now testing a theory that execu-
tive optimism about the future of their
industries and the accuracy of their
previous predictions affect how much
money is invested in plants and
equipment for the industry.

Apart from psychology’s impor-
tance to his research, Goldsmith said
he takes classes to experience the joy
of learning.

Goldsmith

March will be busy

 

By NICOLE KEELER
Phi Staff Reporter

Fancy Dress, which is March 27, will have plenty of help in adding
stress to the lives of W&L students in March. Mock Convention is three weeks
before the ball, and finals begin the week following FD. Most professors
anticipate a decline in student productivity during the month of March, and
some are adjusting their syllabuses accordingly.

Prof. of History John Parker laughed heartily when asked if he expects
students’ academic work to suffer during March.

“‘Of course I do,’’ Parker said. ‘I don’t get mad about it. I don’t in-
crease the workload. I go on about my business.

Roger Crockett, a prof. of German, is new to W&L and has not

experienced the FD week.

‘*There has been some talk among my colleagues of concem, but I’m not

concerned,’’ he said. ‘“The students here are serious. They can handle it.

‘*The syllabus has not been decreased. It will be business as usual, but

I’ll understand if problems arise,’’ Crockett said.

FD Chairman Elizabeth Vallotton said she doesn’t think MC and finals

will dampen the ball’s festivities.

‘*What in the past has ever stopped a W&L student from going to a par-

ty?’’ Vallotton asked.

 
  

 
    
     

  
   
      
  
 
 

 
 

W&L Students, we welcome you to our
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St., Lexington - Below First American Bank

Financial Ald available Immediately! Special grants pro-
gram. Every student eligible. No one turned down, simple
application. Send name, address and $1 P&H fee (refunda-
ble) to: Student Services, P.O. Box 22-4026, Hollywood, FL

 

a Bhe Righy 7,

Nig —_

3

       

 

  
        
    
       
  

2 m= 1 | Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers
: A, : Rt. 5, Box 379 BOBBY BERKSTRESSER
Ree he Sha 703/463-2022
HB 11S. Randolph St. aneacegs Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St. ‘as LE EB HI
: ° ith Student 1.D. Lexington, VA 24
: Widespread Panic a — Lee Hi Truck Stop
4 ‘<Space Wrangler”’ 1 — See
Tu S$
a Once again availabe on CD i Hh £ B eau ty Bar Lee Hi Wrecker Service
i a ee ie Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
St 463-2886 a Lee Hi Restaurant 1-800-768-LEHI

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MIDWINTER
BREAK SALE

 

 

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT

Valley JrueValie. Hardware

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

 

 

 

 

oat Redken * Paul Mitchel Sebastian
: B (

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

Open Mon.-Sat, 8:30-6:00

Sun. 1:00-5:00
E. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2186

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Student Aid.

Store-wide Price Reductions!

Big Savings on Sweat shirts, T-shirts, shorts, hats,
Tevas, Oakley Sunglasses, Rollerblades, Every-
thing!
February 10-11 Only
Open from 9:30 a.m. to 11 p.m.

15 W. Washington St.
Downtown Lexington
(Next to Harbs)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   

pc CLARK

New Apartments

FOR COLLEGE

Every student is eligible for some
type of financial aid regardiess
of grades or parental income.

Financial Aid

Available Immediately!

for
1992

Leases are now being taken for August 1992 occupancy of
twelve new apartments to be located in the former Lyric
Theater building on Main Street. There will be four one-
bedroom apartments and eight two-bedroom apartments. Each

    
     
   

denigeg

 

Ski Massanutten after 12:30 p.m.-on Monday and Friday and
you'll receive some money-saving financial assistance. Show
us your valid college ID —full or part time —and purchase your
lift ticket for just $12 and rent your equipment for $10,

    
  

     
     
   
     
   

     
     
  

   
 

   

is equipped with kitchen appliances, window coverings, — grants program Bring us this ad and we'll aid you even more with an
Ss ; Shee very student eligible additional $2 off your lift ticket.
energy efficient heat, air conditioning, and a secured laundry Me aan tamil ye So find some friends, tear out this ad and come to
facility on each floor. Simple application Massanutten on Monday or Friday. You'll enjoy the best twi-
Send address and $1 P&H light skiing value in the area when you ski our two new slopes
For more information and to review floor plans contact: fee (refundable) to: and ride our new “Quad” chairlift for just $10.
Blue Ridge Design/Build Inc. 463-7563 Student Services

| RESULTS
| QUARANTEED.

 

| P. O. Box 22-4026

26 S. Main Street Hollywood, FL 33022

or
463-9551

MASSANUTTE

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

 

 

 

 

Vita & Associates
26 N. Main Street

 

 

 

Valid 1992 Ski Season only. May not be used with other discounts. |
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1992 | Ww SLI FE | Page 5
Eeeny meeny minie moe: Colonnade Crossword

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
  

   
 
 
  
  
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
  

 

J ACROSS Ie |7 |e fo 10 |41 [12 [13
1 Promontory
5 Book of maps 16
10 Small area
14 Throw =
By RANDY DEVERE one staff member to the current total the one-man department in 1965. Up growth of the department. iz — =
Phi Staff Reponer of ten faculty and staff. to that point, all plays at W&L were “There are a lot more people | 57 Gf the mouth —_
_— In addition, a sizable amount of produced by independent student enrolled in theater classes this year,”’ 18 Cellular
Evita, St. Joan of the Stockyards funds from Washington and Lee’s groups. he said. structures 29 30 [31 [32
and True ey Can you discern a Capital Campaign will be applied to “Lee [Khan] had very good Gordon said he attributes the - oo fo bs a4 3s
pattern here? If you can’t — and it’s the final construction costs of the ‘aste,’’ Gordon said, referring to department’s increased popularity to | 22 Cook in the
not likely that you can — console center and the Lenfest Series of con- Kaha’s theatrical expertise and his the new building and the fact that oven — - r ss
yourself with the knowledge that certs and performances. choices for faculty appointments. more classes are being offered. —— (om 40 a1
ps is a method behind the theater Indeed, it is a far cry from the | Gordon, who joined the faculty ‘The introductory class is much 97 Platforms is 43 44
epartment’s apparent madness. days when Prof. Lee Kahn established in 1974, has witnessed the rapid broader now, which means that it 29 Loving touches
The production of such disparate appeals to more people,”” he said. a —— disse rr rE
‘‘There’s a greater mix of people in | 35 Cap 47 Jas 49 50 51 [52 [53
= the classes — we're really seeing all 36 Wading bird
SMV ISPEAVZ'S QUATLLO “ i | ego OE “al ;
WA 2 . rush man) 56 59 50
38 Volcanic rock |
\ 39 Distress signal [61 62 63
C On GVZNE es LON ¢ For Ur . z 40 Afficted wana |
joint disease ©1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 02/06/92
\ 2 + oe Saisie Last Week's Answ:
42 Four-baggers ers:
\\) \ Uber 9 OUR TOWN e 44 Zestful 5 Where the
TT flavor Parthenon is
“a? 45 Fat of swine 6 The ones there
‘ \ De WO gg c 46 Guiding 7 Fuzz of fabric
rt principle 8 Hole in one
47 Swiftness 9 Firmament
50 Singing voice 10 Large ladles
51 Modern 11 Cougar
plays over the past “—~ 54 Mail service 12 Spherical bodies
year is the result of a 57 Change the 13 Trial
d ‘ decor 19 Set of beliefs
efinite plan on the 58 One 21 Wharf
part of the depart- 59 Got up 24 Lifetimes
ment. Established 4 =a a —"
since the depart- 62 Blunder 27 Rustling sound
ment’s move into the 63 Dipped into 28 Social
Lenfest Center, the coloring Po | seetgal
philosophy is that a DOWN valiaiee
play representing 1 Dog witha 30 Letter paper 41 Wagers 49 Ireland
each of eighteen blackish tongue 31 ie edges 43 Votes into office 50 Blessing
re : 2 Invisible 32 Shatter 44 Personnel list 52 Border
distinct periods and : emanation 34 Noise 46 Billiards shot 53 Golf club
genres must be performed within a 3 Practical 37 Petit — 47 Potato 55 Science building
four-year period. approach - 38 Cheerful song 48 Sheet of window 56 Paid athlete
“We try to provide the students 4 Building wing 40 Mark glass 57 Scarlet

 

with as much of a variety of experi-
ence as possible,’’ Theater Professor
Albert Gordon said. ‘We try to hit as
many different kinds of plays as
possible: Greek, Roman, Shakespear-
ean, Early American, etc.’’
The visibility of the
theater department has in-
creased profoundly since the
state-of-the-art Lenfest Center
opened last year. Not only has
the department’s role on cam-
pus been enlarged, but its

 

(TE

New & Recommended

A personal selection ot Karen Cufflin, Chabot College Booksiore, Hayward, CA

Vital Signs, by Robin Cook (Berkley, $5.99.)
Controversal medical thriller - the shocking story of experimental
fertilization, the passion to create life, and the power to destroy it.

 

Talking at the Gates, by James Campbell. (Penguin, $12.00.)
Biography of the native son who fled his homeland - the boy preacher
who became a great man of letters.

 

 

 

 

faculty has as well. The Habit of Surviving, by Kesho Yvonne Scott. (Ballantine, $9.00.)
According to Gordon, the size of the Five extraordinary women share the conflicts and struggles that define
department has increased from a pre- sae ‘ their lives as black women in America. 2.
Lenfest total of three professors and x aa oe ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES

 

    
 

  
    

ce reve Oren seer Sian
¢ COUPON
HARRIS TEETER MEANS | aiiizzinn

8¢ COUPON

7 Oz. Box Vermicelli Or
CREAMETTE

 

  
   

LOW PRICES! bax. RICE } asin

¢ COUPON SA

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

i WITH
ic OUPON

LIMIT ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. OFFER l l LIMIT ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. OFFER
GOOD AT ANY HARRIS TEETER STORE ONLY. i GOOD AT ANY HARRIS TEETER STORE ONLY. |

 

(C) i

 

OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 11,1992. OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 11,1992.

 
   

34¢ COUPON 40¢ COUPON
6.125 Oz. Can Of 24 Oz. Loaf

| CHUNK LIGHT !! HT SANDWICH
| STARKIST TUNA! ! BREAD
COUPON

COUPON I {COUPON
| VALUE
I i WITH
; COUPON
1@ T
(C) (C)
| il [

LIMIT ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. OFFER LIMIT ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. OFFER
; GOOD AT ANY HARRIS TEETER STORE ONLY. } GOOD AT ANY HARRIS TEETER STORE ONLY. |

 

 

 

        
 
 
   

 

 

 
 
 
    

l WITH

  

Tait
Ry

meats | | eee eee i
«With Additional

OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 11,1992. OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 11,1992.
Purchase

TER a : ne.
34¢ COUPON 54¢ COUPON More Than 70% Lean| | Premium Slicing

eas Oa Tae Peclae Ground Beef Tomatoes

SHEDD'S SPREAD! ! FOX DE LUXE !
COUNTRY CROCK! | PIZZA

I {COUPON
1 a Lb. Lb.
I WITH
| Prices Effective Through February 11, 1992
II ot
I |

 

       
    
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

LIMIT ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. OFFER
GOOD AT ANY HARRIS TEETER STORE ONLY
OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 11,1992

CU

LIMIT ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. OFFER Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, February 11, 1992. In Lexington Store Only,

GOOD AT ANY HARRIS TEETER STORE ONLY We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.
OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 11,1992

=

  

 

 
Page 6

 

NEWS -

oe”

|

a

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1992

‘Big Four’ candidates speak out on Campus issues ©

Questions for the EC officer candidates:
1. What is your opinion of the Confidential Review Committee?

2. What do you think of the proposals to move Fraternity Rush to Winter Term?
3. What do you think the role of the EC should be in administering the Honor

System?

Answers from the candidates:

 

Presidential
Candidate

Josh
MacFarland

Class of ’93

 

1 « “The CRC should retain its role
in handling cases of sexual assault.
Having served as an ad hoc member,
I believe the SCC can handle all other
forms of harassment.’’

2. “It’s a bad idea. The current

system runs extremely well and ‘If it
ain’t broke, don’t fix it.’ ”’

a “It is important for the EC to
make sure honor system remains a
student honor system. Students are
invested with the difficult task of
turning in honor violations. They are
the ones who must make it work.”’

Vice-presidential Candidates

  

4 A Class of ’93

1 . ‘The CRC is not going along
with the standards of the university.
The SCC should be able to handle all
matters involving harassment.’’

2. “There is no need for winter
rush. I don’t see how fall rush hurts
anybody now or needs to be changed.
Winter rush will hurt more houses
than it would help.”’

3. “The job of the EC is to uphold
the honor and integrity of the
institution and to maintain the
autonomy of the student
government.”’

Ames
Hutton

Class of ’94

 

1 » “‘T think the student body as a
whole does not understand the CRC,
and therefore, it is not an effective
judiciary body. With a clarification
and explanation of its rules and
processes, it has the potential to be a
positive force at W&L.”’

2. “‘Moving rush would create a
six-month rush period, during which
houses would spend an excessive
amount of money on rushees. If this
proposal is to be accepted, the
university would have to provide a
Student Center where students could
partake of the
same activities offered at fraternity
parties.”’

3 “‘The EC must not only enforce
the honor system and defend it
against offenders, but also set the
example for the W&L community in
interpreting and living under this
code.”’

i} Andrew
| Schneider

pe
7 “The speech code should be
abolished. It is a violation of the First
Amendment. The CRC itself is a
good thing as long as it would be
accountable to the student body.

Members should be appointed by the
faculty and approved by the EC.’’

Class of ’94

 

2. **T think it’s a good proposal. It
would take a lot of pressure off
freshmen and give them time to
adjust [to college life] before they
choose a fraternity.”’

2. “‘T think their role entails both
education of incoming freshman and
faculty as well as administering the
honor system.”’

 

Election a first
for SCC chairman

Questions:

1. What kind of cases should the SCC

handle?

2. What should be the relationship
between the SCC and the CRC?

Answers:

Betsy Kleiner, ‘93

1. “‘The SCC should handle all
offenses outside the honor system,
such as student misconduct. It may
start dealing with cases of racial and
sexual abuse.”’

2. ‘It’s hard to divide where
the SCC should stop and the CRC
should take up. But we definitely
need the CRC.”’

Richard Burke, ‘93

1. “* I can better answer that
by saying what the SCC should not
handle. It should stay out of the
matters in the dorms, such as
alcohol violations. But, I am in
favor of handling matters in the
fraternity houses. Now that they are
owned by the university, it is no
longer just an internal matter.’’

2 "We feel: were 4
responsible, mature body and can
rule in most harassment cases.
Sexual assault cases belong in the
courts, but with the university
providing counseling at the very
least. We’re not trained to handle
sexual assault, but neither is the
CRE

 

Chase Davis, ‘93

1. ‘‘The SCC should handle
any conduct cases--drinking in the
dorms, conduct in the fraternities, on
the hill or in the community. It
should be all inclusive.”’

2. ‘*The SCC is fully qualified
and well enough informed to handle
verbal harassment--sexual, ethnic or
racial. Unless an action is
completely malicious and flagrant,
the SCC can handle it.”’

Reggie Aggarwal, ‘94L

1. ‘‘The SCC should handle
anything not under the EC’s
jurisdiction, [like] getting drunk and
breaking a window. If a house
gives a member 10 hours of
community service, the SCC will
probably give them the same
thing.’’

2. ‘‘Sexual assault should be
handled by the CRC. It’s a personal
and sensitive issue for females and
males. In regards to _ verbal
harassment, the students should be
deciding what we _ consider
acceptable in our community, not
President Wilson.’’

 

 

 

Secretarial Candidates

Ashby Hackney, ‘94

1. ‘‘The CRC is ineffective now
but the concept is important. Matters
like the CRC handles do not belong
in front of an imposing body like the
EC. They are best handled by
someone who is experienced.”’

2. ‘‘The tradition of fall rush is
easier on fraternities and on freshmen.
It gives freshmen something to
identify with and gives them a base.
And in meeting people, you learn a
lot about the university.”

3. ‘‘The EC should operate
exactly as outlined in the White Book
to protect the integrity and the honor
code of the university. It should make
sure the sense of honor of General
Lee’s time continues today.”’

Robyn McCord, ‘93
1. ‘‘The CRC is a valid and

necessary committee, though its
borders have yet to be defined.
Verbal harassment and sexual assault
are two very different issues and they
should be treated as such.”’

2. ‘Winter rush obviously takes
a lot of controversy and problems that
arise in fall term out of the way. But,
not being a guy, I can’t speak from
personal experience as to which is
better.”’

3. “‘The EC should offer as much
guidance as possible about the honor
system without being an iron hand of
the law.”’

Bob Tompkins, ‘90, ‘94L
1. ‘‘The lack of cases brought in
front of the CRC raises serious
questions about its validity and
necessity. But, charges of sexual
misconduct need to be handled

Don’t forget to vote
on Monday

SHOE FIXERS

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington 464-6666

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satir shoes dyed in 1 hr.

 

 

eR ee ;
LORE
a Swi Ui

   

   

On CDs $13.49

February Special
Mystery Movies, Hunting Movies
99* Rentals

NEW RELEASES
Rocketeer
Regarding Henry
Hot Shots
Point Break
Mastercharge and VISA Accepted

 

 

Stonewall Square 463-9800

 

Student Rental Housing
(2) 4 Bedroom Homes
In Lexington.
$800/month
5 Bedroom House
In Country.

6 miles out.
$1,000/month

MEAD ASSOCIATES

Please Call Mrs. Strecker at

     
     
   
   
   
     
   
 

confidentially so as not to discourage
people from bringing charges
forward. The SCC should have an
expanded role, including some things
which are currently under the
jurisdiction of the CRC. Things like
racial incidents should be handled by
a body of students who are elected,
not appointed.”’

2. ‘Freshmen need something to
do in the fall. Fraternities are the
social outlet here. It is unrealistic to
expect them not to associate with
three-quarters of the [men at W&L].
I would also be hard to enforce no
contact rules for that long. It would
essentially be rush for four months.
But, some compromise might be
possible.”’

3. “The EC is principally
charged with the administration of the
honor system, which includes the
education of students and faculty

 

about how the system works and
confronting those who are accused of
violating the system. People on the
EC need to understand what members
of the W&L community think honor
is. As a student at W&L for six years,
I think I understand what the
community believes honor is.’’

Ted Elliott, 94

1. “‘It’s a pile. It’s a way for the
university to cover itself when a
controversial issue comes up. The
CRC should be abolished. It is
against the school’s tradition of
student government.”’

2. ‘‘Winter rush is mainly an IFC
issue, but it’s not a good idea. The
EC should work with the IFC when
students’ interests conflict with the
administration.’’

3. ‘‘The EC should enforce it, but

also keep in mind the human factor.
They should be able to balance
justice and personal service.”’

Nathan Dunn, ‘94

1. ‘‘They need to turn a lot more
responsibility over to the elected
student government, such as the SCC.
We need more student decisions in
the harassment policy, rather than in
the faculty-dominated CRC.”’

2. ‘Based on where the
university is in reshaping the social
life, it is not time for winter rush.
Maybe a few years down the road it
will be beneficial, but now we are not
ready.”

3. ‘The EC _ investigates
violations of the honor code.
Sometimes in investigations in EC,
I’ve thought about how ironic it is
that we must carry out the honor

 

HELP WANTED

The Publications Board is now accepting applications for
these positions for the 1992-93 academic year (Ring-tum Phi
terms begin this spring):

Ariel Editor

Calyx Editor, Calyx Business Manager

Journal of Science Editor
Political Review Editor

The Ring-tum Phi Editor, Phi Business Manager

The board might appoint more than one person for any post. Apply
by Wednesday, Feb. 26 with a resume and letter of interest to the
Publications Board. Mail your application to board President Rick
Peltz, P.O. Box 40, Lexington, or deliver by hand to Rick, Gaines
424C. Interviews are mandatory and will be held on Monday, March
2, between 8 and 11 p.m. You will be contacted to arrange a time.
Call Rick at 464-3775 with any questions.

GET INVOLVED WITH PUBLICATIONS!

 

system but it is certainly not an honor
to make the decisions we have to
make sometimes.””

Blair Hixson, ‘94

1. ‘‘The SCC is not the correct
avenue for many of the matters that
come to the CRC. Having served on
SCC for a year, I can say that it is
not the right place for sensitive
matters.””

2. ‘‘ There are some good things
and some bad things about it. Winter
rush would allow guys to get to know
a more diverse group of peple, but
I’m not sure how good it would be
for the unity of the fraternities.”’

3. ‘‘The job of the EC is making
sure trials are fair and to uphold the
honor system as explained in the
White Book.”’

 

 

 

5

4
The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1992

Generals hang tough at
Virginia Wesleyan, 86-74

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Sports Editor

On Wednesday, the Washington
and Lee basketball team travelled to
Norfolk to take on the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference’s top team.

The Generals, battling for the
final ODAC Tournament spot with
two other teams, gave Virginia
Wesleyan as much as it wanted
before finally succumbing 86-74.

W&L scored the first seven
points of the game sparked by senior
Mark Melton’s three-point shot, but
VWC responded with 15 straight
points, Walt Lassiter and Scott Spruill
did all the scoring and put the
Marlins ahead for good.

After holding the Generals to 33
percent shooting in the first half, the
Marlins opened up a 50-35 lead in
the second half before the Generals
made the first of two second half
runs.

The Generals cut the lead to just
five at 54-49 when a variety of
different players scored, but the
Marlins opened the lead back out to
71-55 with six minutes left.

But sophomore Paul Baker
sparked another W&L run with back-
to-back three-pointers and _ the
Generals went on a 16-4 run to cut
the lead to 75-71 with 2:40 left.

The Marlins, though, didn’t
break and made their free throws

F S PO RTS |

 

 

Page 7

 

down the stretch to hold on for the
win. The loss drops W&L to 5-14
and 2-11 in ODAC play for the
season.

Baker matched his career-high
to lead W&L with 20 points.
Sophomore Robert Miggins also
added a career-high. He finished with
16. Junior Bryan Watkins was also in
double figures with 14, including 12
in the second half.

Lassiter had 24 and Rick Chalk
had 20 for the Marlins, who beat the
Generals for the first time in three
years in Va. Beach.

W&L will next travel to play
Guilford Saturday night in
Greensboro, N.C.

 

 

From staff reports

 

Washington and Lee’s women’s
swimming team kept its ODAC
winning streak alive with a 137-25
win over Bridgewater as they gear
up for this week’s meet with
Hollins.

The Generals, who have won
13 straight ODAC dual meets since
December of 1987, host Hollins on
Friday night in a key meet.

Against the Eagles, the
Generals won every race to coast to
the win. Senior Jodi Herring, junior
Claire Dudley and freshman Susan
Fisher each won twice and swam
legs on winning relay races as well.

Solo winners in individual
competition included freshmen
Brandi Henderson, Stacy Cofield
and Marina Vasilara.

Washington and Lee’s women’s
track team competed at Virginia
Tech against some of the top teams
in the state last weekend and saw

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 

some solid performances.
Freshman Kim Herring ran a

5:43 mile, the fastest indoor time in

that event for a W&L runner and

 

   

 

 

 

Henry

just seven seconds off the school
record. Sophomore Stefanie Brown
ran the 400-meter dash in 1:08, the
best time indoors for a W&L
runner,

This was the last full meet for

the Generals before the unofficial
ODAC Championships, which will
be held on Feb. 29 at VMI.

The men’s track got some good
indivudual performances in the
largely Division I field at the VMI
Relays.

Senior Jim Henry finished
fourth in the shot put with a heave
of 45-6. Junior Bo Hannah ran a
season-best 8:55.6 in the 3,000-
meters and freshman Grant Cowell
ran a 2:02.4 in the 800-meters. That
time is the best in the ODAC this
winter. W&L is getting ready for
the ODAC Championships to be
held at VMI on Feb, 29.

 

Spring is in the air

Senior Robert Huke puts the clamps on a
Franklin and Marshall player in a lacrosse
game last year. Huke and the 1992 Generals

 

 

 

 

begin their season with a Sunday scrimmage
with Hartwick. Check the Phi for all the spring
previews in the coming weeks.

 

 

 

Come to your Printing Center for:

University PRINTING CENTER ist Floor Reid Hall - 463-8448

The Printing Center offers quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job return, and

When they ask for your recipe, just tell them it’s a

 

 

 

¢ Cinnamon Rolls
© Loaf Breads
© Candies

 

   

eB aAMILY Secret (GD

Scrumptious, Homemade Goodies

Call for FREE brochure
and ask about our Valentine Specials!

¢ Cookies & Bars

We Deliver In Lexington!

¢ Cakes
¢ Pies
¢ Dinner Rolls

 

Deavers Alley Business Services

TERM PAPERS

Typed
Resumes, Cover Letters & Envelopes

Laser Printing and FAX Service

 

203 N. Main Street

463-9455

 

For Take Off

You can get a lot more out of life when

 

    

¢ Flyers and Posters « Custom Resumes and Letters

* Copying and Printing + Transparencies

* Programs ¢ Brochures and Booklets gs . ii oe a oe ee y

i Newsletters e Scanning A ¥ ew ee As eS ae - he Pate SPAS od tb heh 6 6S >

competitive pricing. We have a Macintosh IIx which can read IBM disks. Scanned fa 3S
images can be added to your campaign or organizational flyers for that individual i? 6 ete q Wo
appearance. Need a high resolution output? We offer our Linotronic 200SQ. Our A see =F eit 9 grand”
services cover University and non-profit organizations. Stop by today! * gnive® co a 40?

Youve Just Been Cleared

 

  
  
   
  

Depending on where you fly, each

the Card will say a lot about you. For one
school year travel certifi-

thing it says you have a handle on what you

 

ee set your sights a little

 

 

 

 

 

 

igher. Which cate is good for _ spend, so you dont have to carry over a bal-
is what applying $129 or $189 round- ance. It also says youre smart enough not to
for the American Express® trip—and each summer travel pay interest charges that can really add up.
Card is all about. When you get the certificate is good for $149 or =§—___ —_.., Sotake afew minutes
Card, its easier to do the things youwant — $199 roundtrip. Airfare examples now to call (have
to do. And with the student savings that Dhaeee tees d nanan ae your bank address
come along with it, you can do even more. we — » Roundtrip Year Fare and account number

your lifestyle. New York-Los Angeles $189
Fly roundtrip on Continental Asa student Cardmember you Boron Orde si9 ready) = apply
for less than $100 each way. get more than great travel sav- ————e _. oe

 

Express Card.
With all that the Card offers you, not
even the sky is the limit.
THE CARD.
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS® CARD.

Student Cardmembers receive four travel
certificates. They can be used to fly any-
where Continental Airlines flies in the

48 contiguous United States. Two for the
school year, and two for the summer*

ings. You also save money on everything
from clothing to long distance phone calls.
All for a $55 annual fee.

Obviously, savings like these say a lot
about the value of the Card. And having

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

"20% Discount on all
non-sale items to students”

Get going, call 1-800-967A MEX.

If you're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call
"School year is considered Sept. I-June 14, summer June 15-Aug. 31. Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive with your certificates
Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines performance
© 1992 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc

(703) 463-1620

11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
VISA, MC, AMEX

  

 

SERVICES

An Amencan Express company

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Basketball -

 

This week’s scores:
Wrestling - 5th at Mid-South Invit.
RC 98, W&L 76;
VWC 86, W&L 74
Women’s Swimming- W&L 137, BC 25
Men's track - at VMI relays
Women’s track - at Va. Tech

 

 

 

S

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

PORTS

 

Basketball -

 

Next week’s games:

2/8 at Guilford, 2/12 (h) LC
Wrestling - 2/9 at Va. College Meet
Women's Swimming - 2/7 Hollins,

Men’s Swimming - 2/8 at MWC

2/8 at Mary Washington

 

 

 

PAGE 8

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

FEBRUARY 6, 1992 ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, W&L
Senior Doug Brown swims his way to another win in a meet
earlier this year.

Brown caps winning month with Phi honor

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Staff Reporter

 

It has been quite a month for
senior swimmer Doug Brown.

He was honored by his
teammates and coaches in the last
home meet of his career against
Georgetown. He has been the
catalyst behind the Generals’ 3-2
mark for the month.

He can add one more feather
in his cap. He is The Ring-tum Phi
Athlete of the Month for January.

“*It caught me by surprise,”’
said Brown.

But not much has been surpris-
ing for Brown this month. He’s been
the model of consistency for the
Generals. He had three-win meets
against the College of Charleston
and Georgetown.

He also had two-win meets
against Buffalo State and Swarth-
more. Brown will admit that this has
his best year.

“I’m swimming consistently
faster in the dual meets this year,’’
he said. ‘‘I think it’s going to help
me swim faster and score better at
nationals.”’

Coach Page Remillard is just

as confident in Brown.

“It will be [his best year],”’
said Remillard. ‘‘A swimmer
doesn’t have his best year until his
last year, and this is Doug’s last
year.”’

However, Brown’s been work-
ing up to this year for the past three
years. He made a commitment to
himself to succeed and has stuck to
it.

It’s determination that keys
Brown’s success.

““My strongest attribute as a
swimmer is that I’m determined,”’
said Brown. ‘‘I do what it takes to
win. You can’t beat me in the first
few laps, you have to beat me in the
last lap.”’

This determination has made
Brown the team leader. It’s a role he
doesn’t shy away from, but one he
believes where mere words can’t do
the job.

“I’m not very outspoken. Talk
is cheap,”’ he said. ‘‘I like to lead
with my efforts and results. I also
like to find motivational material
that will inspire the guys. Little
phrases or speeches that will add to
what I’m trying to show them.”’

There is a price to pay for

being so focused, though, and
Remillard says that he hopes Brown
doesn’t pay that price for being so
focused on swimming.

““Doug’s the type of guy you
don’t tell ‘you can’t do it’ because
he’ll go out and do it. For me as a
coach, it’s a pleasure to work with
an athlete like that, but there are
other things at college that you miss
out on with that kind of drive.

“I think Doug could have
been a little less focused on
swimming and still done a great job.
But like I said, he has that drive to
do everything he sets his mind to.
That is an honorable trait that will
probably work for Doug, but it may
not work for everyone else.”’

The year isn’t over for Brown
and his teammates. There are still
two dual meets to go and then the
championships and nationals. This
is the time where Brown believes
the team will start to peak.

““Coach times everything per-
fectly here. The entire team will
start to swim much faster and will
be at peak performance come the
championships,’’ said Brown.

However, there is also one
personal goal Brown has yet to

achieve. John Hudson has two long-
standing records in the 500-yard and
1,000-yard freestyles. Brown
believes that they will be his by the
end of the year.

‘*Yes, I can break them, and
yes, I will break them,”’ he said
emphatically.

Remillard believes Brown can
do it, but the records are not a main
goal.

“It’s not even a conscious
thought. I believe he can do it, but
he has to understand that wanting it
has nothing to do with breaking it,’’
he said.

For right now, though, Brown
and the Generals must get ready for
a very tough dual meet at Mary
Washington this Saturday. Remillard
sees this as the meet that either
brings W&L out of the shadows of
other teams, or leave them behind.

“It’s not a must-win, but it
would help to solidify our program’s
reputation among other Division III
teams. The loser will have to wait a
year for another opportunity,”’ said
Remillard.

And if Brown maintains his
Athlete of the Month numbers, the
Generals won’t have long to wait.

 

 

 

Hot hands
drop hoops

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Spons Editor

 

More and more, the 1991-92
basketball season looks like it holds a
stacked deck against the Washington
and Lee Generals.

Every team the Generals play
has a player or group of players who
have their best games of the year —
against the Generals.

In Bridgewater's 78-71 win, Jeff
Berry had a career-day. Early in the
year, Emory & Henry’s Ross Kirtley
scored a career-high 32 points. The
latest addition to the list is the entire
Roanoke College team.

In the Maroons’ 98-76 win over
the Generals Saturday, Michael
Thorton scored a career-best 21
points, and the Maroons shot an
incredible 73 percent for the game.

The Generals watched in
amazement as the Maroons missed
just five first half shots, shooting 78
percent. Hillary Scott made all six of
his shots and Roanoke led 43-27 at
halftime. In contrast, the Generals
shot 36 percent in the half.

WA&L started strong, getting out
to a 12-6 lead on the strength of two
Bryan Watkins three-point shots and
four points from Mark Melton, but
Roanoke responded with a 23-3 run,
keyed by seven points from Joe
Schrantz.

The Generals got within 10
points in the final minute, but

 

 

Ba

 

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Bryan Watkins knocks down one of his team-leading 49 three-pointers against Hampden-
Sydney last week. The Generals are the leading three-point bombers in the ODAC.

Thorton hit two three-pointers to send
the Maroons into the locker room
with momentum.

W&L got as close as 14 points
in the second half, but the Maroons
controlled things and coasted to the
98-76 win. Paul Baker led W&L with
17 points, all in the second half.
Watkins finished with 16, Bryan
Brading had 13 and Melton 11.

The loss caused head coach
Verne Canfield to make some
changes in the offense.

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant

Shop

463-7969

FSSSSN ANAL AE REN ENTE RE REET

J Jansport day nB and book ba

Lexington Bike

130 S. Main St.

TEAM
UNIFORMS

0% © ”

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

( JACKETS
S$ custom perc

* Redeem this coupon for A

10% OFF your order
Good Through Feb. 28

Aw

Fast Professional Service

At A

Reasonable Price ,

(703)-348- 51 14 Rockbridge Baths Va,

 

‘We're going to go with four
players on the perimeter and one
underneath the basket,’’ he said.
‘*Our strength is on the perimeter, so
we’ll try to focus on our strength.’”

Despite being in a battle for
eighth place in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference standings, the
Generals are far and away the best
three-point shooting team. W&L
made 11 against Roanoke and has
made seven or more in 11 of its 18

games.

 
  

FREE SPRING BREAK VA-
CATION Organize a group,
earn commissions and free
trips! Call: 800-826-9100.

    
 
 

 
 

 

= =
aucdiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House
DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
MONSTER OPTONICA
KEF cwod

BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Winter Doldrums Sale
at the Bookstore

.Books...Books...Books...

...Ccalendars...
Starts Friday, Feb. /

Bookstore hours: Monday thru Friday 8-4, Saturday 10-12

 

 

 

 

 

 

Watkins is W&L’s top gun. He
has made 49 three-pointers. Freshman
John Rogers has made 27, and
Brading has made 21.

The Generals are 5-13 and 2-10
in the ODAC, and Canfield thinks the
team still has a good shot at making
the ODAC tournament. The top eight
teams qualify.

‘“‘We have games left with the
two teams we’re competing with,”’ he
said. “‘We need to keep working hard
and finish as strong as we can.””

Soderberg places

second at Mid- soutr

 

By JACOB KIMBALL
Phi Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee
wrestling team did not take a full
team to the Mid-South tournament in
Jefferson City, Tennessee, but the
Generals still had a strong showing.

Findlay College of Ohio
captured the team championship, and
W&L finished 5th.

For the second consecutive
tournament, senior Peer Soderberg
swept through his first two matches to
reach the finals in his 177-pound
weight class.

In the final, he led Steve Donat
of Finlay 3-2 heading into the second
period, yet found the match knotted at
three before the final period.
Soderberg took the lead by one and
looked to finish first, yet in the final
seconds, Donat scored the crucial
points that led to his 5-4 victory.

Soderberg hopes to break his
string of bad luck in the next
tournament, but his opponent from
the W&L championships two weeks
ago will be present.

“‘He has been very close to
winning, so He is a little
disappointed,’’ said head coach Gary
Franke. ‘‘But that will just make him
work harder because he has another
challenge this week.”’

Also placing for the Generals
was Eric Shirley, a member of the
promising freshman crop. Shirley
started the day with a loss, but turned
things around in the consolation

 

 

   

 

Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee

* Counselors for Summer Scholars July 5 - July 31, 1992

Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school
seniors. Each counselors serves as resident advisor in Graham-Lees dormito-

ry for 10 students.

* Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 8 - August 4

The Office of Special Programs employs 5 W&L students to serve as
hosts/hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni
Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities man-
agement and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.

Kappagalllo

WINTER SALE
All Winter Merchandise

% Off

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

Application deadline, February 27, 1992

For further information, please contact Office of Special Programs, Howard

House, 463-8723.

 

 

   

Soderberg
bracket. He beat John White 6-3 to
get to the third-place match and beat
Rob Fierro 5-3 with two takedowns.

Besides Soderberg, the squad
traveling to Tennessee was comprised
of freshmen. Shirley was joined by
Adam Williams, John Cherry, Beau
King, and Lea Abercrombie, and both
Williams and King recorded wins
during the tournament.

Franke was pleased with the
freshmen.

‘“Most of them are only a match
away from placing, and they show
some real potential to start doing so,”’
he said.

Next up for the Generals in the
State Championship tournament in
Norfolk this Saturday.

“It will be a real competitive
tournament,’’ Franke said.
‘‘Longwood and Newport News
Apprentice look to be the
frontrunners, so we will try and stay
up with them.”’

     
     
   
 

 

 

4

»
