THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHING@TON & LIKE LNAAEIESITY
LEXTNGTON, VA. 24460

fer, ;

Che Ring-tum Phi

1992

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 25

RFK's son
rescues
freshman

By Tom EISENHAUER
Phi Executive Editor

 

Last Thursday freshman Rob
Robinson and two friends decided to
spend the sunny spring afternoon tub-
ing down the Maury River --- like
most W&L students would have.

This particular spring afternoon,
however, the Maury’s high waters al-
most drowned Robinson. He was res-
cued by Matthew Maxwell Taylor
“Max” Kennedy, a University of Vir-
ginia third-year law student and the
son of the late Robert F. Kennedy.

On the second day after Western
Virginia’s biggest flood since 1985,
the Maury at Goshen Pass was still at
flood stage, almost eight feet above
normal, according to lst Lt. Barry
Arnold of the Goshen First Aid Crew.

After 15. uneventful minutes in
the river, Robinson was leading two
friends as they floated down the river.

Robinson rounded a bend and
found himself being pulled toward the
heart of Devil’s Kitchen, the wildest
stretch of rapids on the river.

He went over a large rock, drop-
ping down into an eddy that immedi-
ately yanked his tube out from under
him. By the time he stuck his head
above water, the tube was beyond
reach, and Devil’s Kitchen was toss-
ing him from eddy to rock to eddy.

“Half of me was thinking that I
had to stay above water, and half was
thinking about some deep stuff,”
Robinson said. “I had a pretty good
philosophical discussion about death
and that this was as close to it as I
wanted to get.

“T was almost angry because I was
convinced I was going to die and an-
gry with myself for being ignorant.”

The rapids thrashed him for about
100 yards further downstream before
he could grab an underwater rock and
climb onto~a larger boulder above

water. d
There he sat for 35 minutes,

stranded 40 feet from shore.

Jumper and Miller had avoided
the worst of the rapids, while others
had driven to Goshen to get help, re-
turning with the rescue squad. But with
Robinson so far away, therescue squad
was unsure how best to reach him.

Luckily, Kennedy and classmate
Roger Freeman, both experienced
kayakers, were inatwo-man inflatable
kayak trying out the flood-swollen
river, which Kennedy said is “sup-
posed to be one of the best in the state
... when it has water in it.”

While Freeman waited on shore,
Kennedy picked his way through the
rapids to a spot upstream from Robin-
son. Kennedy then floated down to
him, hesitating just long enough for
Robinson to clamber in.

“He was kind of in shock and
bleeding,” Kennedy said. “He looked
kind of like a puppy thrown in the
water for the first time.”

Kennedy paddled the kayak down
to a calmer stretch of the river.

“T got out myself, bent down and
kissed the ground, and just sat down
and waited for rescue to come to get
me,” Robinson said. “At the time, I
pretty much didn’t care who [the
kayaker] was.”

Robinson escaped with mild hy-
pothermia, numerous cuts and bruises
from his chin to knees,

When Freeman and Kennedy re-
turned to Goshen Pass Saturday, they
realized how lucky Robinson had been.

“Things that on Saturday were
just little ripples had been 6-foot waves
on Thursday when we were out,” Free-
man said. “I was scared in the kayak.”

Law students protest grammar rule

Professor requires students to use gender-neutral language

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

APRIL 30, 1992

CRC's future to be decided Monday

 

current form?

  
  
 
   

47% Not Sure

 

8% Strongly Support

CRC Survey Results

To what extent do you support maintaining the CRC in its

14% Strongly Oppose

se 14% Somewhat Oppose

How serious an issue do you
think sexual assault is on

campus?
Very Serious 34%
Somewhat Serious 53%
Not Serious 13%

How serious an issue do you
think sexual, racial and ethnic

slurs are on campus?
Very Serious 27%
Somewhat Serious 58%
Not Serious 15%

 

 

Students acknowledge campus harassment,
but question CRC's role, effectiveness

 

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Most Washington and Lee students believe that ha-
rassment is a serious problem on campus, but don’t support
the Confidential Review Committee’s authority to hear
harassment charges.

That is according to a survey compiled by students in
Professor of Sociology David Novack’s research class. The
survey asked students how they feel about the CRC.

The vast majority of the 609 undergraduate students
who responded to the survey said that sexual, racial and
religious harassment are serious problems at W&L.

Only 25 percent of those students said they support the
CRC in its current form.

This lack of support, Novack said, could come from
students who don’t know what the CRC does.

The CRC is a committee of four faculty members and
three students that hears cases of harassment or assault that
the accusers feel are too sensitive to bring before the
Student Conduct Committee.

Less than half of the students responding to the survey
claimed to know the CRC’s function.

Even among students who say they are familiar with
the committee’s function, some question its effectiveness.

 

Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi

Renovations on the Kappa Alpha fraternity house, shown above, will
be complete by late August, according to University Coordinator of
Capital Planning Frank Parsons. However, he sald students will not

move back into the house until January 1993.

 

 

Sophomore Conshetta Brown said the CRC is not
effective in preventing harassment because most students
don’t know about it.

“I don’t see any evidence of deterrence” by the CRC,
Brown said.

Junior John Cross said date rape is a serious issue at
W&L, but that the SCC should have responsibility for
hearing such cases.

Some students disagreed.

Senior Denise Brainard said the CRC is necessary to
hear cases of sexual assault.

“Something like the CRC is needed on campus,”
Brainard said.

The survey found that support for the CRC is highest
among women.

Only 2 percent of men surveyed--- in contrast to 16
percent of women --- said they “strongly supported” the
CRC.

Novack said the students who conducted the survey
expected men’s and women’s responses to differ because
women are more often victims of harassment.

The most surprising result of the survey, Novack said,
is what little information students have about the CRC.

“If people don’t know about the committee, then what
kind of impact could it have?”

 

By JosHUA MANNING
Phi Managing Editor

 

With spring term 1992 well under
way, the Pi Kappa Phi, Phi Kappa Psi
and Kappa Alpha houses remain un-
der construction; the future of the Delta
Tau Delta house remains in question;
and the new houses in Davidson Park
are yet to be started.

But University Coordinator of
Capital Planning Frank Parsons re-
mains optimistic that all 14 fraternity
houses undergoing Renaissance will
be completed by Sept. 1993.

The university stands ready to
break ground on the two Davidson
Park houses next week, Parsons said,
but both Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi
Epsilon will stay in their current houses
until fall term 1993,

The administration had hoped to
complete the new houses for $1.6 mil-
lion, But Parsons said that was unreal-
istic. Construction costs alone will run
$1.75 million.

“Tt all depends on what you call
the budget,” Parsons said. “In almost
every instance, meeting our standards
have caused us to spend more than the
original projections. But the difference
has been unreasonable expectations
versus reality.”

While the university would prefer
to sell the current Sig Ep house, the
future use of the Sigma Chi house, on
the corner of Washington and Lee
Avenues, is undecided.

“We could put a couple of aca-
demic departments in there, or possi-
bly [the office of] development,” Par-

 

Issue continues

 

By LeicH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

 

Faculty members are divided over
a Student Affairs Committee proposal
to eliminate the Confidential Review
Committee and replace it with a judi-
cial board that would not hear cases of
verbal harassment.

The faculty is scheduled to vote
Monday on the proposal, which would
establish a Student-Faculty Hearing
Board to handle sexual assault.

If a student complained of verbal
harassment under the new system, the
Dean of Students would appoint a
mediator to attempt to resolve the situ-
ation. If the accuser were still not sat-
isfied, then the case would go before
the Student Conduct Committee.

Associate Professor of Journalism
Brian Richardson said the proposal
does not do enough to give students
full First Amendment protection.

“There’s still the possibility for
some bad things to happen on freedom
of speech,” Richardson said.

Law Professor Alan Ides, an alter-
nate member of the CRC, said the SAC
proposal is a fair compromise. Still, he
said, private universities should not
have speech codes.

“The best solution to a speech
code is not to have one,” Ides said.

Ides said he believes the SCC can
responsibly handle harassment cases.

Other faculty members disagree.

CRC member and Professor of
Religion Alexandra Brown said she
supports leaving the CRC in its current
form because she believes that the
mediation process suggested by SAC
would not be effective.

Students will be reluctant to

sons said. “Another possibility would
be Career Development and Placement,
freeing up space in the existing Uni-
versity Center for other purposes.”

As for houses currently under
construction, Parsons said Pi Phi and
Phi Psi are scheduled to be completed
by the end of June and will be ready for
occupancy in September. But while
the KA house might be completed by
the end of August, Parsons said KA
will not move back in until January.

“Wearenotanticipating that [KA]
will be able to re-occupy the house
until second semester next year,” Par-
sons said. “We are not digging our-
selves into any more holes like we did
in Red Square.”

This will make KA the only fra-
ternity that will go through Rush next
fall without a house, a fact that is not
lost on KA President Hank Huff.

“T think it might hurt us during
Rush, but we’ll just have to deal with
it,” Huff said. “It’s definitely been a
hassle not having a house, everyone
just tends to drift their own way.”

Although not participating in the
Renaissance program, Chi Psi moved
out of its house on Lee Avenue this
month to bring the house in line with
the new fraternity standards.

“We're renovating the middle
floor to include a house mother’s suit,
a president’s suit and five singles,”
said Chris Crenshaw, Chi Psi’s former
treasurer.

Other work includes adding an
additional fire exit, renovating upstairs
bathrooms, removing asbestos, add-
ing additional bathrooms in the party

to divide faculty

partcipate in mediation, Brown said, if
they know that the SCC would be their
only alternative if the mediation failed.

“[Students] need a body designed
specifically to handle more sensitives
issues,” Brown said.

She said she was the only SAC
member not voting in favor of the
current proposal.

In March, the CRC released a pro-
posal that outlined a “Principle of Ci-
vility and Decency” that defines what
the CRC considers unacceptable stu-
dent harassment.

The CRC’s proposal established
broad guidelines for student behavior.
In the extreme, it suggested that stu-
dents could be expelled for calling
someone ugly or using racist language.

According to Professor of Geol-
ogy Samuel Kozak, who chaired the
faculty committee that founded the
CRC in 1987, the committee sparked
controversy from its inception.

The committee was formed to
evaluate and suggest modifications to
the student judicial system, but did not
intend to create the CRC, Kozak said.

“The farthest thing from my mind
was that a committee to handle racial
and sexual stuff would evolve.”

Students on the committee sug-
gested forming the CRC, Kozak said,
because they felt uncomfortable han-
dling issues like rape and racial slurs.

The students also suggested hav-
ing a faculty majority on the commit-
tee so that the committee would appear
to be more responsible than the SCC.

Kozak said he was surprised when
the faculty adopted the CRC in its
original form.

“T thought, they don’t really want
to do this, do they?”

Renaissance enters last phase

room and adding a porch.

Crenshaw said the latest estimate
for the renovations is $250,000. To
pay for it, the fraternity took out aloan
to be paid from the brothers’ contribu-
tions toward the Greek Fee. The uni-
versity will act as subcontractor,
Crenshaw said.

The only house that may pose a
problem to the 1993 deadline is Delt.

After months of hearings, the City
of Lexington issued a conditional use
permit to the university in December,
right before the chapter was suspended
for 18 months. Under the terms of the
permit, construction must begin be-
fore December 1992.

Parsons expects the Delt House
Corporation to re-apply for Renais-
sance this summer.

“They will do so assuming there
will be a viable chapter ready to oc-
cupy the house in September. 1993,”
Parsons said. “If they pass the property
to the university, the house will be
ready by then.”

Besides the current projects, Par-
sons has his hands full solving prob-
lems, including questionable work-
manship, cropping up at the houses
already completed in Red Square.

But rather than workmanship,
Parsons said, the major problem was
in underestimating the amount of dam-
age the houses would suffer.

“At some times the architects have
been astonished at the ability of frater-
nity members to destroy things,” Par-
sons said.

“If we could start over, we would
do better. But we can’t.”

 

By KATIE YDEL
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee law students are protesting one
professor’s insistence on the use of gender-neutral lan-
guage.

Law Professor Gwen Handelman has asked her Tax
Ethics class to use gender-neutral language in papers. If
necessary, students should use both genders. Students who
fail to follow these rules can have their grades lowered.

Law students have written letters to Dean Bezanson
and to the W&L Law News, protesting the requirement.

One letter, which appeared in the Law News last week,
was written by second-year law student Mitch Neurock and
Karen Orr, vice-president-elect of the Student Bar Associa-
tion and vice-president of the Federalist Society.

They believe Handleman is trying to impose her own
ideology, rather than a simple grammar rule.

Their letter called the use of gender-neutral language

“an outrageous instance of political correctness in our
classrooms” and said that these rules were created to “muddy
the intellectual waters of academia.”

Orr and Neurock said Handleman waited until she got
tenure to begin insisting on gender-neutral language.

In response, Handleman said that gender-neutral lan-
guage has been adopted by the American Bar Association’s
Committee on Ethics and Professional Responsibility. Since
these rules are used by the ABA, it is not unreasonable for
her class to use them too, she said.

Handleman does not demand that students use changed
spellings, such as using “womyn” for “women.”

Handleman said that she has been misrepresented in
the letters as a radical feminist and that the students may still
hold a grudge against her for opposing on-campus recruit-
ment by the U.S. Military, which refuses to admit homo-
sexuals,

Handleman denied trying to be politically correct.

“They've got me pegged as a radical,” she said.

 

The Essence of Foxfield.. .

 

 

 
 

Page 2

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

she prefers ‘It

There’s a new regulation in the law school, courtesy of
Prof. Gwen Handelman. ‘‘She’’ — whoops, sorry — ‘‘it”’
requires that student papers use only gender-neutral pronouns.

Prof. Handelperson has mistaken the most recent dictum
of political correctness for grammatical law. Look it up. If a
subject’s gender is ambiguous, the masculine pronoun is used.

Prof. Handelperson might not agree with this rule, and
perhaps its gripe is a legitimate one, but that is not the issue
here. The issue is that here we have another example of the
Tenured Left doing it’s (their? his? Now we’re completely
confused.) best to regulate how we think and act. It is ironic
that those who claim the left side of the political spectrum are
so willing to use authoritarian methods to get their way.

By the way, Prof. Handelperson says this requirement
comes to us courtesy of the American Bar Association. Last
we checked, the ABA didn’t get to decide questions of
grammar. A lawyers is the last person we’d ask about proper
speech. Ever read a legal document? Whatever that gibberish
might be, it ain’t English.

Coming on the heels of last year’s debate about allowing
the military, which has banned homosexuals, to recruit on law
campuses, this new incident raises questions about the people
who oversee law schools. With what are they more concerned,
ensuring a strong education or political correctness?

In this case, once again education has been overshadowed
by political agendas, both Left and Right. There’s been
enough of that lately. It’s time to grow up.

Reviving a W&L
literary society

Thanks to the vision and sense of tradition of Matt Jackson
and Cameron Humphries, two of the most active members of
our student intelligensia, on May 20 W&L will get another
connection to its tradition-steeped past.

Jackson, Humphries and a group of students and faculty
they recruited have formed the Graham-Lee-Washington
Society, a literary and social society that aims to continue the
rich heritage of debating societies at W&L.

Once every six weeks, the Society will sponsor a semi-
formal ‘‘dinner debate,’ open to the first 80 people who buy
a $5 ticket. It will include dinner and ringside seats to see two
students debate each other, face cross-examination from a
student-faculy panel, and receive questions from the audience.
The first topic will be ‘“The Media and Private Lives.’’ ’

It sounds great. We only wish they hadn’t chosen a
Wednesday night; we usually have another commitment.

A word of caution, however. The Society’s goal of
“‘vigorous yet civil discourse’’ is admirable, but we’d like
more. Debate is not an end in itself — fireworks for the sake
of fireworks — but a means toward an end of understanding.

In the past few years, W&L has witnessed much of this
type of public debate in our campus publications. It was
entertaining, but too often it got us nowhere.

Instead of a reasoned argument that attempted to use its
Opposition’s ideas to arrive at some truth, too often we saw
impassioned and deafly dogmatic skirmishes, which are as
intellectually enriching as a well-played game of paddleball.
Someone wins the contest, but no one really gains anything.

We hope the Society’s debates will not sink into this less
glorious vein of simple ideological contradiction. W&L — and
its tradition of literary societies — deserves more than that.

Quote of the Week

I just violated my most basic principle ... 1 spoke to someone
from The Ring-tum Phi.

— Geology Professor Sam Kozak, after giving an interview to
a reporter.

 

 

 

OPINION

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1992

 

 

ll

 

 

 

 

PC language reigns at the law school .

 

My View

By Karen Orr, '93L and
Mitch Neurock, '92L

 

Well, we almost made it! We al-
most made it through an entire year
here at the law school without an out-
rageous instance of political correct-
ness in our classrooms. But it turns out
that our hope for a quiet year has been
dashed. And this is a big one...

This year's culprit, once again, is
Professor Gwen Handelman. You may
remember her from last year as one of
the professors who spearheaded the
law school’s ill-fated placement policy,
which attempted to ban the military
from recruiting on campus. This time
around, Mrs. Handelman has decided
to require that students in her tax ethics
class use “gender-neutral” language in
all written work. She (and we do mean
“she;” there’s no substitute for accu-
racy) has announced that she will fac-
tor in the use of gender-neutral lan-
guage in determining grades for her
course.

According to Mrs. Handelman,
this requirement is intended to pro-
mote goodwill in the legal profession
and to avoid offending female lawyers
in senior positions, namely herself.

Last week we interviewed Mrs.
Handelman in her office, to ascertain
her policy and the reasons underlying

it. While admitting that “gender-spe-
cific” language is not grammatically
incorrect, Mrs. Handelman told us that

grammar is not the issue. Imagine that!
Grammar is irrelevant in a writing
course! How about speling?

Mrs. Handelman also told us that
the “gender-neutrality” requirement is
no different from any other require-
ment set by professors for the routine
management of their classes. No dif-
ferent from, say, a deadline, or a page
limit. The fact is, this is not a purely
mechanical requirement; instead, itis a
demand for ideological conformity.

Realistically, “gender-neutral”
language is not “neutral” at all. It is a
perversion of accepted grammatical
usage and has been created by radical
feminists like Mrs. Handelman in an
attempt to further muddy the intellec-
tual waters of academia. “Gender-neu-
tral” language dictates favoritism to-
wards women under the guise of equal-
ity.

é Mrs. Handelman went to great
lengths to persuade us that her new
requirement was not ideologically mo-
tivated. Rather, she said, it is merely a
reflection of a perceived trend towards
this form of usage in professional legal
circles. This so-called trend, however,
is by no means universally recognized
or accepted in the profession. In fact, it
is easy to find female lawyers who
believe there are more important things
to worry about than pronoun usage.

On the contrary, Mrs.
Handelman’s action cannot help but
be ideologically based. Regardless of
Mrs. Handelman’s claimed motivation,
her students are being forced to submit

to her warped feminist conception re-
garding proper use of the English lan-
guage. Students with differing view-
points, such as those who prefer to use
grammar correctly, are to be dismissed
(and graded down) as old-fashioned
sexists. These cretins, after all, have
little respect for Mrs. Handelman’s
dizzy utopia.

 

‘Gender-neutral’ language
dictates favoritism
towards women under the
guise of equality.

 

To further illustrate our point, con-
sider the following: suppose a profes-
sor were to announce that he would
grade students down if they did use
“gender-neutral” language. Said pro-
fessor would instantly be denounced
as a sexist and an impediment to free
thought and expression. When Mrs.
Handelman does the same thing, she is
a heroine of the feminist cause, strik-
ing a blow for women everywhere.

Mrs. Handelman revealed to us
the astonishing fact that it is very diffi-
cult to remove a tenured professor for
cause. And indeed, it does not surprise
us that Mrs. Handelman waited until
she was granted tenure before she in-
stituted this farcical requirement.

Mrs, Handelman is not teaching
here as a free agent: she is part of a «
larger faculty community. As such,

other faculty members recognize the
ridicule they all receive when one of
their number embarks on such fool-
hardy expedition as this. In private,
several have expressed their discomfi-
ture to us. Every instance such as this
not only cheapens students’ degrees
(both law and undergraduate), but also
degrades the prestige of the faculty as
a whole.

Mrs. Handelman reminded us that
deans and administrators are respon-
sible for decisions regarding tenured
professors. Not surprisingly, an already
browbeaten and gun-shy Dean
Bezanson has expressed deference to-
wards Mrs. Handelman’s wishes. The
matter then, is left to us; we might not
be able to undo what Mrs. Handelman
has done, but we feel compelled to
raise our voices in protest.

It is unfortunate that the teaching
of law at Washington & Lee no longer
focuses on substantive material, but
instead centers on radical hi-jinx and
ridiculous points of order. In an effort
to score points with its highbrow lib-
eral counterparts, the law school has
abandoned its mission of solid teach-
ing of substantive fundamentals,

Instances such as this go a long
way towards explaining our school’s
fall from grace in the eyes of our pro-
fession, our alumni and our commu-
nity. Our school (and it is our school)
appears hell-bent on destroying any
reminder of its former glory, in favor

of the New Conformity. Correct gram-
mar is out, correct politics is in.

      

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Executive Editors
Managing Editor
News Editor

Assistant News Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor

Features Editor

Copy Editor
Photography Editor
Editorial Cartoonist

Thomas Eisenhauer, Cathy Lopiccolo
Joshua Manning

Leigh Allen

Greg Patterson

Francesca Kefalas

Sean O'Rourke

Joyce Bautista

Craig Burke

Teresa Williams

Jeb Tilly

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Benjamin Plummer
Hal Waller

Business Manager

Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but also
from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208 of the
University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

Wé&L student
saves a life

To the Editor:

On March 17, 1992, I attended a committee
meeting of local business people, City of Lexing-
ton officials, and three Washington and Lee stu-
dents who represented the volunteer student con-
sulting group (Commerce School).

During the working-lunch meeting, one of
our committee members became severely choked
and was aided by Daniel Spinosa, class of ‘93. His
quick response and successful use of the Heimlich
Maneuver brought about a positive result in a
possibly life-threatening situation.

I would like to commend Daniel --- and all
students at W&L --- for his actions. This was
certainly a good example of how our local com-
munity benefits from our student population.

Frank E. Correll
President
Crestar Bank/Lexington

Justice system is
the true outrage

To the Editors:

In all truth, this letter is not meant for the
editors themselves, but rather is intended to be a
show of support for the editors, and more specifi-
cally for Cathy Lopiccolo, targeted at those who
have recently taken it upon themselves to lambast
her for her reporting of the Hudnall rape trial.

Miss Lopiccolo’s article has been referred to
as “brutally insensitive,” “damaging and demoral-
izing,” “sensationalist,” “humiliating,” and “irre-
sponsible.” The narrow minded scope of these
accusations, and the letter “Phi reaches new jour-
nalistic plateau,” presented in at least as tawdry a
manner as it accused Miss Lopiccolo of using,
frankly piqued me quite a bit.

Brutally insensitive? Certainly these words
apply to Chad Hudnall, even if his testimony is
absolutely true (which I, and, I’m sure, many
others doubt). These words apply to rape, and they
apply to someone who initiates sex without first
making sure whether or not his partner is who he
thinks she is. And I’ m afraid I have to inform all of
those who complained, that an article on a “brutal”
subject must contain some brutality of it’s own if
the article is to be at all informative. Perhaps the
Phishould have just run the headline “HUDNALL
CLEARED OF CHARGES,” and no story. Would
that have been better?

Personally, when I saw that an outrage like
Hudnall’s acquittal had taken place, the first ques-
tions I had were how this could have happened,
what testimonies and deliberations led to that
decision, etc. And that is what I read. I found no
sensationalist additions on the part of the author,
There was no suggestion or innuendo in one
direction or the other. I will admit that I, too, was
disgusted by what I read. However, I attribute that

 

LETTERS

disgust to the proper party: Chad Hudnall and the
judicial system that allowed him to get away. I do
not see that by reporting such events that the guilt

‘ anddeplorability transfers itself to Miss Lopiccolo.

It also pains me to have to point out that,
despite what is claimed in the “Phi article was
insensitive” letter, “the supposed physical rela-
tionship between Hudnall and... Christin Harvey”
IS MOST CERTAINLY “the issue in this case.”
That was the linchpin of Hudnall’s entire shabby,
and unfortunately, successful, defense! “What
Miss Lopiccolo hoped to gain” by reporting this
was to explain how the accused managed to be
acquitted.

Yes, this event was damaging to the respec-
tive institutions of VMI and W&L. It is demoral-
izing to the sense of security which is prevalent in
this community. And do you think it was sensa-
tionalist, because it startled and outraged you?
Well, Washington and Lee you should bee out-
raged! You should be outraged at the mockery it
makes of our justice system when a man can be
found innocent of rape because he thought he was
having sex with someone with whom he claimed
to have had sex before. That is the outrage.

Therefore, in conclusion, let me say to Miss
Lopiccolo, that I, no matter how distasteful I
found the subject matter, appreciated your article
of March 12th. After all, if I’m going to be
ashamed of our legal system, I ought at least be
well-informed about why it is so.

Sincerely,
Colin J. Wynne, ‘94

Arrogance does
not serve students

Dear Dr. Hampden H. Smith:

I read with no small disappointment your
defense of the Phi editor’s coverage of the Chad
Hudnall trial. What is disappointing here is not so
much the Phi’s errors in judgement (as mere
college journalists, we all make them, myself and
the Spectator being quite certainly no exception)
as the self-righteousness and raw hubris with
which the affront to the student body has been
denied, Turning the traditionally light-hearted April
Fools Phi into a bitter outlash against the EC and
the student body constituted a new low for the
newspaper. Not to be outdone by your esteemed
pupils, the journalism department sided with the
Phi, Gentlemen, the surest way to allow a small
fire todevelop into an all consuming conflagration
is to deny the fire exists. But instead, you fanned
the flames.

The Ring-tum Phi is not the W&L Free Press.
It is not the independent publication your letter
described it. Student funds support the Phi, and
University facilities house it. That none of the
“alternative” publications receive either indicates

 
  

that both the University and the student body alike
have a vested interest in maintaining the Phi. As
financial supporters, then, they certainly may hold
it to certain standards. One hopes that any student
in your department, much less the rising editor of
the Phi, would naturally adhere to certain stan-
dards, call them ethics if you will, but if not, the EC
has not only the right, but the responsibility to
intervene. No other student group enjoys carte
blanche with student funding and neither should
the Phi.

It is one thing to make a mistake, quite another
to deny having made it. The professional integrity
of your department and your students would be far
better served with an apology than it has thus far
been with your arrogance.

Cameron Humphries, Spectator Editor

MacKenzie returns

To the Editor:

One of my recently heard-from attackers tells
us that since I fail to suggest “a single tenable
solution to [the] problems” I discuss, I am conse-
quently “no better than those [I] so adamantly
(criticize].” (Mar. 19, 1992) That’s an eyebrow-
raiser isn’t it? Let’s project this logic back upon
Germany in the late ’30s, where those too-familiar
dark Forces held sway (the same Forces which
have gone on to give us at W&L the Spectator and
the law school's Federalist Society). “Y’ know,”
says Joe Kraut in his Munich living room in 1939,
“these Nazis really suck.” Because he has not
elaborated on that statement with any substantive
solutions to the problem, Joe Kraut is now, by my
critic’s reasoning, every bit as evil as Hitler.

Interesting though it is to take note of, this
reasoning is not in fact relevant to my situation. If
my logician-critic had bothered to read the piece
which gave rise to all this “to vote or not to vote”
controversy (Feb 13, 1992), she would learn that I
did offer solutions. Three of them; two specific,
one general. And given the Phi’s spatial con-
straints and that I had other matters to discuss in the
piece, I think that’s pretty good. (Q: “What are
these suggestions?” A: Go back and look.) Still,
implicit in this criticism is an invitation which,
being a magnanimous person, I will soon take up.

The Law Wives’ latest scud indicates that
those redoubtable ladies may at least have read
some of my work. I give them high marks for that.
And in a way that obviously passeth their under-
standing, calling me “the quintessential tapeworm
in the stomach that is the American system”’ actu-
ally evokes something of an effective metaphor.
You see, the American political system can be
viewed as a big, slimy, involuted, foul-smelling
viscera, churning and gurgling with noxious juices
and reeking of putrefaction and decay.

But the Law Wives are wrong to suggest that
the Chinese Communists need any help from me.
After all, they have the full economic endorsement
of America’s democracy-loving government.

Cheerfully,
Niall MacKenzie, ‘93

 
 

 

 

>

>

‘

+

,
a

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1992

 

Mailboxes
to leave
annex

By Amy YARCICH
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

Students who get their mail at the
postal annex on Jefferson Street will
have to travel to the Lexington Post
Office on Lee Avenue next year.

While the annex has housed mail
boxes for nearly ten years, Postmaster
Larry Creamer said the post office rece-
ntly decided to centralize Lexington’s
mail delivery.

The more than 2,000 boxes at the
annex will be moved to central post
office’s empty basement over the the
summer, said Creamer.

Creamer said box numbers will
remain the same and the move will
mean that mail will be in the boxes
earlier in the day.

Creamer suggested to his super-
visor that the boxes be moved shortly
after he became postmaster last fall.
The U.S. Postal Service agreed to fund
the project.

Creamer said the move should
save enough money in rent on the
building to cover the basement’s re-
modeling costs in just two years.

According to J. French, co-owner
of the annex, the decision to move the
boxes came as a complete surprise.
While he said he’s sorry to lose his
quiet tenants, French hopes he will
rent the space soon because of the
annex’s good location.

The move to the main post office
could mean that fewer students pass by
the shops, which are on the way to the
Jefferson Street annex.

While Sandwich Shoppe owner
Frank Stinson said he “anticipates a
small decline in business,” owners of
Sweet Things, Alvin-Dennis, and
Wendell’s Barber Shop do not forsee a
fall-off in business.

“People will still want ice cream,”
Sweet Things Manager Rogo Koehler
said.

 

 

Page 3

 

 

 

  

 

Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi

Former President Jimmy Carter addresses a packed Warner Center Monday night. In his speech, Carter
described his vision of a new world order.

Carter preaches charity, peace

 

By JAMESON LEONARDI
AND GREG PATTERSON
Phi Staff Reporters

 

Former President Jimmy Carter
said Monday the time has come to
build a world based on helping others

Speaking to a packed Warner
Center crowd, Carter said the fall of
the Soviet Union means it is time to
rethink the role of the United States as
the last superpower on Earth.

“We have, in effect, a blank piece
of paper on which we can write down
what we want to achieve in the future,”
Carter said.

Carter said the U.S. should work
to end wars in all corners of the globe,
not get involved in them. He also said
America should be a champion, not an
opponent of civil and human rights.

“Oppressed people shouldreceive
solace, not silence, from Washington,”
he said.

Carter cited nuclear arms reduc-
tion and environmental protection as
other qualities a great nation should
have. Sharing was his final point.

“We’re rich, butreluctant to share
with the poor,’’Carter said. “We only
use a small portion of the [gross na-
tional product] to help the poor.”

Carter pointed out the role of the
common man in the new order.

“Tt’s not just our leaders who have
a responsibility in the new world or-
der,” Carter said. “We have an impact,
too.”

Carter cited an undertaking of his
Carter Center at Emory University as
one way people can help make a dif-
ference.

The Center’s “Atlanta Project” is
an attempt to coordinate state, federal,
church,and business efforts to help the
poorest residents of Atlanta.

Carter said the targeted group, one-
parent families and teenage mothers, is
500,000 people, or 15 percent of the
city’s population.

In addition to coordinating the
relief effort, Carter said the Center is
also training volunteers to go into the
poor neighborhoods to help residents.

Carter said the main job of the
volunteers will be to help poor fami-

lies help themselves. The idea, he said,
is to make people feel they have some
control of their lives.

“There is a feeling of hopeless-
ness,” Carter said. “Poor people don’t
believe their lives can get better be-
cause no one does anything to help
them.”

Carter said he is optimistic about
the Atlanta Project and hopes that, if
successful, it would be duplicated in
other cities.

“The only guaranteed failure is
not to try,” he said.

Carter ended his speech by urging
the audience to help others.

“America has an opportunity for
greatness,” Carter said. “But greatness
begins with neighbors reaching out
and saying, ‘I care about you.”

“Giving people hope is the idea of
a new world order,” he said.

Carter’s lecture was sponsored by
the Robert L. Telford Distinguished
Lecture Series, an endowment estab-
lished by a 1922 W&L graduate to
support the visit of men and women of
national and international stature.

Former DEA head to debate ‘ godfather of acid’

 

Peter Bensinger

Bensinger, former director of the
Drug Enforcement Agency, is
the president of aconsulting firm
providing information on drug
and alcohol abuse testing.

  

 

Ruisson, French
Paris, France —

Delphine
Assistant,
‘*What’s that?”’

 

Interviews and photos
by Jameson Leonardi

 

 

From the W&L News Office
Former Drug Enforcement

 

* Agency Director Peter Bensinger and "|

former Harvard Professor of Psychol-
ogy Timothy Leary will debate drug
testing and individual rightson Thurs-
day, April 30 at7:30p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Bensinger is the president of
Bensinger, DuPont & Assoc., a firm
which provides consulting services on
drug and alcohol abuse and testing.

He served as administrator for the
D.E.A. from 1976 to 1982; was the
principal U.S. delegate to Interpol, the
international police organization, in
1978; was appointed by the Interna-
tional Association of Chiefs of Police
to serve on the executive committee of
the 12,000 member police organiza-
tion, and was chairman of its Narcotic
and Dangerous Drug Committee.

A Yale University graduate,
Bensinger has lectured widely through-
out the United States on the subject of

drug control, drugs in the workplace,
and the need for consistency in corpo-

“rate and government policy) *
* “Tithe 1950s; Leary'became one -

of the early proponerits of the then-
radical technique of group-therapy. In
1959, he was appointed to the faculty
of Harvard University where he was
the director of the Harvard Psyche-
delic Research Project.

In the 1960s, Leary became the
spokesman for the “cultural revolu-
tion” and the “consciousness” move-
ment; it was he who coined the phrase,
“Turn on, tune in, drop out.”

In the 1980s, Leary became the
leader of the “futurist” movement and
the president of a company called
Futique, Inc. which designs software
for personal computers. His first pro-
gram, Mind Adventure, was favorably
reviewed by The Wall Street Journal,
Forbes, Business Week, and Omni.

The speech is sponsored by Con-
tact. The public is invited to attend.

 

Timothy Leary

Leary, known as the ‘godfather
of acid 'is a former Harvard pro-
fessor who admits to having done
LSD continually for the last thirty
years.

 

TALKBACK

GENERAL NOTES

Join a Board

Interviews for positions on the
Student Activities Board, Con-
tact, the Voting Regulations
Board, the Cold Check Commit-
tee, the Emergency Loan Com-
mittee and the Fancy Dress
Board will be held on May 11
and 12. Applications for these
positions can be picked up in
front of Carol Calkins’ office in
the University Center beginning
May 4. They are due back by 5
p.m. on May 11. A sign-up
sheet will be there to schedule
an interview.

Film Society
The Washington & Lee Film
Society will present the winners
of its Third Annual Film Mak-
ing Contest on Saturday, May 2
at 8:05 p.m. in Lewis Hall
Classroom A. The award-win-
ning filmmakers are members of
the W&L community, VMI and
elsewhere in the community.
The films run from 10 seconds
to 30 minutes in length; the
entire program will run under
two hours.

Internships
Information for Fall 1992 intern-
ships at the White House can be
obtained from Professor Con-
nelly in D.C. at (202) 797-6000
ext. 4042 between 9 and 5 p.m.

Leyburn Award
The ODK is calling for nomina-
tions for its annual Leyburn
Award which is given to a
student or group with a strong
commitment to community
service projects and who exhib-
its an unselfish spirit of service
to others. Nominations can be
submitted to Dean Ruscio be-
fore Friday, May 1. The recipi-
ents will be announced at the
Spring ODK induction ceremo-
ny, Saturday, May 9, in Lee
Chapel.

Women’s Forum
There will be a Women’s Forum
meeting Sunday, May 3 at 6
p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center. All are welcome.

World Record

Craig Shergold is a seven-year-

' old: 'boy ‘with ‘an inoperable

+ tumor ,and: ‘little ‘time -to live. «’.
Craig wishes to make it into the.’
Guinness Book of World Re-
cords for the largest number of
get well cards ever received.
Send a card to: Craig Shergold,
c/o Make A Wish Foundation,
32 Perimater Center East, Atlan-
ta, GA 30346

Play Classical
Do you like classical music?
WLUR needs a few classical
DJ’s to fill up spring term slots.
No experience necessary. If
you’re interested, call Josh at
463-5117 or Leland at 464-
3999.

Award Winner

Sophomore Charles Edward
Erdmann, Jr., from Herndon,
Pa., has been awarded an under-
graduate scholarship from Phi
Eta Sigma, the national Fresh-
man Honor Society. He is one
of only 33 undergraduates and
graduate members of Phi Eta
Sigma national to receive
awards this year. Congratula-
tions!

Be a Teacher
Students interested in the Teach-
er Certification Program may
meet with representatives from
the Mary Baldwin College’s
Education Department on Tues-
day, May 5, between 10 a.m.
and noon in the Fairfax Lounge.

Found

The following items were found
by the security office during
Superdance and Fancy Dress: a
white ‘‘Giants’’ windbreaker
with a blue collar, a large heavy
knitted red sweater with white
designs and a green CB jacket
with a blue stripe. A set of keys
was found on the tennis courts
with ‘‘USWest”’ and ‘‘MRI’’ on
the key chain. Contact Baner or
the security office if you, believe
one of these items belongs to
you.

Pub Board

The Pub Board will have its last
meeting of the ’91-’92 school
year on Monday, May 4 in the
Phi office at 8 p.m. All new and
old editors should attend for
last-minute instructions. Call
Tonya Yoder with any questions
at 463-4912.

Salespeople

If you are interested in selling
advertising for the Phi, please
contact Benjy at 463-8581.

Get It Out

Need to get a message to the

' student body? Put it in the Gen-

eral Notes. Leave a brief, typed
note in the General Notes enve-
lope outside The Ring-tum Phi
office, University Center 208.

Sally Obermueller and Keith
Grant compiled the General
Notes.

 

 

 

STUDENT NOTICE
SCC Case

At the end of winter term, the Student Conduct Committee found a law
student guilty of a conduct violation involving vandalism. The student
received the following penalty: restitution of the damages, a letter of
apology and conduct probation until the end of the academic year.

 

 

What would you like to see at this weekend's

Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic?

 

Jen Albright, 92, Cincinnati,
Ohio — ‘True co-ed naked
lacrosse.”’

 

 

 

Sean Gatewood, ’93, Bel Air,
Md. — ‘‘The Dallas Cowboys’
Cheerleaders,”’

 

Pauline Mita, ’94, Women’s

Lacrosse Player — ‘‘I’d like to
sce the the boys try to play as
hard as the girls did in the

ODACs,’’

 
    

 

 

Richard Hoover, ’93, Shaker
Heights, Ohio — ‘A lot of
action in the crease.”’

 

Thompson Lykes, *92, New
Orleans, La, —‘‘A slaughter.”’

 

 
Page 4

 

 

W&LIFE

 

 

 

 

Ask Dr. WortTH
By Dr. James Worth

 

eae Thanks to Tom
a Eisenhauer and Cathy
Lalla SS Lopiccolo I have a

chance to write a col-

umn for the Phi which
deals with various kinds of mental
health issues and even controver-
sies.

Whether it continues beyond
this spring will depend on student
reaction. I really have no idea how
it will turn out.

I’ve decided to do it as a ques-
tion and answer piece. Hey, it
worked for Abby and Ann.

I’ve selected a question students
have asked me many times in the
past. But I’m hoping to get current
questions from the student body.
Bring your questions to me or Mrs.
Carol Calkins in the University Cen-
ter.

If you prefer, this can be done
anonymously by a letter stuck under
either of our doors or through a
phone call. My extension is 8592,
and my office at the University Cen-
ter is Room 128.

So here is the first question, one
which has come up a number of
times, especially during programs
on acquaintance rape and sexual as-
sault:

Can a man be raped by a
woman?

As a matter of fact this may
be happening far more fre-
quently than anyone
dreamed of.

A recent study, no doubt a spin
off from queries about sexual as-
saults on women, suggested that per-
haps one male in seven has been
exposed to some form of sexual as-
sault. Forty percent of these are fe-
male to male.

Now this does not mean that

 

male students at W&L are in danger
(in hopes?) of having a female stu-
dent jump out of the bushes one
evening and perform sexual perver-
sions on him.

This form of assault is exceed-
ingly rare.

What is surprisingly common
is for younger males, usually prepu-
bescent, to be fondled by or in other
ways sexually assaulted by an older
female, such as a baby-sitter.

The effect on the male has some
of the same characteristics as any
child molestation. That is to say,
shame, confusion, fearfulness, and
insecurity.

Most males never talk about
these experiences and, consequently,
they are greatly under-reported.

Later this spring a sexual as-
sault survey will be given to W&L
students and this year, for the first
time, will include data on men as
well as women,

In my practice here at W&L,
which by now includes over 2500
cases, I have had one instance of a
forcible sexual assault committed
by an adult female (a non-student)
on a W&L male.

He had picked up a woman
hitchhiker, who forced him at knife
point to perform oral sex. He was
not at all sexually attracted to nor
sexually excited by the woman, but
he did what he was told.

The point at which he felt actu-
ally “assaulted”, however, was im-
mediately afterwards when she
laughed at him and ridiculed him.

In my office several days later
he showed many of the classical
features of post-assault victimiza-
tion.

He felt a loss of self-esteem,
shame, anger, asense of lost control,
anxiety, depression, and difficulty
concentrating on his courses.

His counseling consisted of
having an opportunity to express his
feelings, to see that his post-trau-
matic stress was anormal reaction to

When males fall victim to rape

an abnormal circumstance.

He was a graduating senior who
could only see me a few times but I
think he was able to go a long way
toward getting past the symptoms he
presented initially.

Farmorecommon than this overtly
coercive act are incidents in which
males are pressured to be sexual by
women with
whom they re-

He had picked

ally would pre-
up a woman fer not to have
hitchhiker, that kind of rela-
who forced tionship.
him at knife The myth
point to per- is that males tend

form oral sex. tobe “hormones
with legs”, who
always want sex
anytime, anywhere, with any willing
woman.

So prevalent is this myth that men
often do not feel able to say no to a
sexually aggressive female, even when
they are not interested.

To say no would, in their minds,
be unmasculine and unacceptable.

While this is not a sexual assault,
it is a regretted sexual experience that
can have a negative psychological im-
pact on the male.

I have counseled a number of
men who confided in me their regret
about their sexual behavior, which they
engaged in not out of passion but be-
cause it was a role they felt they had to
play.

Most sexual assaults between
adults are males against females. The
overwhelming majority in fact.

But when boys and men are vic-
tims, whether it be heterosexual or
homosexual assaults, their reactions
are quite similar to female victims.

We are just beginning to see that
there may be a much larger number of
unreported cases than we had ever
imagined.

Hopefully in future columns I can
respond to questions you pose to me in
the coming weeks.

By all means, ask Dr. Worth!

 

 

Storage bins
available
on Rt. 60

Vita & Associates
Realty
463-9551

f
i
i
t
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i

auciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
MONSTER OPTONICA
KEF cwDd
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ouden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

of love her way,

with a card from

POSTMARKS
& PLEASURES

Caswell-Massey

Fragrances, Soaps, and Lotions
for Men & Women

Gift Baskets
T-Shirts
Journals & Diaries

117 W. Nelson St., Lexington, VA

GrEDEDEncnenenenanenane

—

 

 

 

 

 

Kappagao

SPRING SALE

All Winter Merchandise — 1 Off
“Spring Fashions Are In”

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

 

 

     
   
 
       
     
   
 
   
  
   
 
     
   
       
   

T

ere C yada Pe
GS ad ree
feiss ie Te)
Se 4 | cya e

snd ei
We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

20% Discount on all
non-sale items to students”

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Deavers Alley Business Services

TERM PAPERS
y

Resumes, Cover Letters & Envelopes
Laser Printing and FAX Service

(703) 463-1620

11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
VISA, MC, AMEX

 

ed

203 N. Main Street
463-9455

 

 

 

 

ee

  

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1992

 

Photo by Teresa Williams, The Aing-tum Phi

Ben Worth, left, and Broderick Grady rehearse for Worth’s senior thesis adapts a Greek play to

E.C. Womyn, which will be performed May 25.

modern-day W&L.

Free love, communism and the EC

Senior's thesis satirizes W&L's institutions and traditions

 

NICOLE KEELER
Phi Staff Reporter

Ben Worth’s senior thesis, or at least part of it, is going
to be a little more public than most.

On May 25 part of Worth’s thesis, a play titled E.C.
Womyn will be acted out in front of Lee Chapel. E.C.
Womyn is Worth’s own adaptation of the Greek playwright
Aristophanes’ Ecclesiazusae.

“Tt was one of Aristophanes final plays” said Worth
“I’ve taken it and adapted it to Washington and Lee.”

For those who know what the play is about, it appears
that the adaptation is going to be a little controversial.

“Yes,” said Worth, “Youcould kind of say I’m digging
my own pit to throw myself into.”

In the Aristophanes original, the women of the city
become so frustrated with their government that they over-
throw it.

Leanne Jones plays the female lead character of
"Peyton."

"I play a very strong, focused woman,” Jones said.
"She feels the best way to get over her problems is to put
women in charge of everything.”

“In E.C. Womyn," Worth said, “Washington and Lee
women become so fed up with W&L policies that they take

over the Executive Commitee.”

They then tum the campus into a communist state and
communize everything, including sex, instituting a free
love policy.

“The women feel that it’s unfair for the handsome men
and women of the campus to monopoloize sex so, if you
want to sleep with somebody ‘handsome’ you must also
sleep with somebody ‘ugly’," Worth said.

Worth said he thinks E.C. Womyn is going to cause a
stir when it's finally put on.

“There is adult language and situations, but I’ve toned
it down alot from the original, those four Greeks - what they
were up to was pretty awful.”

One student felt that many students may get offended
by some of the potrayals in the play. "There are many
people at W&L who get easily offended," freshman Re-
becca Crow said. "Those who misunderstand the play will
probably take offense."

Aside from the language and the situations, the play is
also an open satire of many W&L institutions and tradi-
tions, some mentioned by name.

“Everyone should come out and see it and see them-
selves mocked and things they hold near and dear about
W&L mocked," Worth said. "Get angry, you’re supposed
to.”

Congratulations

to the
Newly Initiated Colony Members

of the
Virginia Theta Chapter
of

Pi Beta Phi

Katharine Adams
Sarah Aschenbach
Drewry Atkins
Carrie Baker
Pina Benincasa
Kristen Berg
Stacy Bogert
Erika Bolstad
Lauren Brillante
Lise Brown
Stacey Cofield
Meredith Cook
Tricia Coughlin
Jill Covington
Becky Crow

Kit Dodds
Megan Duncan
Kerry Egan
Laina Ewan
Susan Fisher
Lisa Florentine
Allyson Gardner
Cathey Gartin

Tina Hand

Christine Hamlet

Colleen Hickey
Leslie Holben
Cameron Huddleston
Ivy Johnson
Kelli Klick
Teresa Lamey
Jennifer Latham
Krista Lindsey
Charlotte Long
Meredith Long
Joanna Love
Heather Loveland
Melissa Malone
Erin Metzler
Sara Morgan
Mary Muelhberg
Stacy Newlin
Bevan Ovens
Gamble Parks
Sarah Pastuszek
April Powell

Laura Purcell
Jennifer Queen
Kristen Rawlings
Marisa Ritter
Eleanor Roy
Mollie Saunders
Ashley Scott
Jennifer Shaker
Stefanie Shepherd
Holly Simmons
Rachel Simpson
Karen Stutzmann
Megan Talbott
Betsy Treadway
Sarah Tune
Jackie VanVliet
Marissa Vivona
Amy Vogt

Ali Walker
Jessica Willett
Robin Williamson
Melissa Wolf
Maureen Rousset

Christine Grandinetti Beth Provanzana

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1992 Page 5

W&LIFE

Trippin’ in Rockbridge

_ Driving tour heads into the scenic Blue Ridge Mountains

 

 

 

 

Colonnade Crossword

 

 

 

Along with ¢ George Washing-
‘spring term's warm | ‘gr N ton National Forest
, Weather andreduced 1 aury River ¢ are available at the

class load comes the — office only on
‘ Opportunity to take a weekdays.
, roadtrip through the oF PWayside Chalk Mine Run Continue south
Scenic countryside of +81 ’ Blue on Magnolia
‘ — Rockbridge County. Moomaw’s Landing Parkway, through Buena

This marks the

Vista's renovated
first of two features

downtown district.

6
Amherst

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' highlighting an ed- so _ This area is a mix
: ited selectionof driv- Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi of old and new
ing tours found in buildings.
Country Roads by Near the south
Rockbridge County end of town, at 10th
residents Katherine The above photo is Street, turn right to
Tennery and Shirley of the panoramic visit Glen Maury
Beene Blue Ridge Moun- Park.
tains, as seen from The 315-acre
‘ Buena Vista to the Southern Seminary municipal park
y Blue Ridge College in Buena across the Maury
: Vista. On the right, River has a two- 1 tore wee man 43 Police blotter 65 Couturier's 100 Seaman's call of
US 60 from Lexing- Southern Sem is the MOLDED Bier | 8 = Row Conare te Through 2 Gorrod
He _ i a site of many histori- nic areas with shel- - Pouches as Folows joy or 13 others Ee 193 Lampang resident
i : *1as ; mmin ife of Zeus pain letters at: pref.
"‘talles tee ena ee? eed ioe ee,
marti ee fey le. |
This tour leads Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi Camping sites. 21 Facial feature 50 Make susceptible 81 — Park, Colo. 118 Walks
from the Valley of When exiting s Vases sooen’ ” aeumbin 4 Setaeneite one 120 Sed nee
«Virginia to the crest of the Blue Ridge, ’ Across the river is the Chessie left at the next traffic light. Bear left thepark, turn left onto 10th Street, then = sy roe oe iis by po dng
, with a side tour of the city of Buena Nature Trail, a seven-mile long foot- after the turn and drive up onto the _leftonto Magnolia. At22ndStreetturn | 29 Part of p.r.n. (in 56 Parlor 91 Marquis de— 123 Part of QED
Vista. path that follows the former railroad Southern Seminary Junior College left, then tum right, onto Sycamore | ,, resciptons) 8¢ Snicker-— Biota’ tia Gee dl loaee’s
‘ Begin by heading east on US 60 bed between Lexington and Buena campus; from there you will have a Avenue, and immediately bear left onto Vv. — 60 Host oe Groed ranges ate
_ (Nelson Street) past a strech of com- Vista. lovely view of the city with the Blue Beech Avenue (Alt. US 501). i ee muciont | CO “a
mercial development. US 60 then be- Back on US 60, onthe right, there Ridge behind it. The second traffic light is at the | 38 Half masks Gs Tenis tenover porn Var reins

* comes a four-lane divided highway.

The road cuts across and be-
tween the foothills, and in about two
miles, US 60 passes over I-81.

From the highway the impressive
Blue Ridge Mountains and the Maury
River are visible.

At three-and-a-half miles, begin
looking for Ben Salem Wayside, a
popular riverbank pinic area. Here the
remnants of the North River Naviga-
tion System can be found. There re-
mains a well-perserved lock from the
1860s and 1870s.

Bird watching is excellent on the
banks.

is a coffee-pot shaped building that is
now the headquarters of the James
River Basin Canoe Livery.

The livery rents out equipment
for canoe trips and also offer classes in
basic and whitewater canoeing.

The road narrows to three lanes
through a riverside industrial area. On
the right, a marker recalls Moomaw’s
Landing, part of the old North River
Navigation System.

US 60, now 29th Street in the city
of Buena Vista, passes under the Nor-
folk Southern Railroad bridge and in-
tersects US 501 at the traffic light.

Tum right on US 501, then turn

Many buildings date from the
boom, and the Main Hall of the col-
lege, the only survivor of several ho-
tels built in the county, is a well pre-
served example of the period.

Drive on past Mail Hall and tum
right onto Chestnut Avenue as you
exit the campus. Turn right again onto
Park Avenue at the bottom of the hill,
then left onto Magnolia Avenue (US
501) at the stop sign.

The United States Forest Service
Pedlar District office is on the left side
of Magnolia. Maps, information, and
advice about hiking trails, camping,
fishing, and hunting in the nearby

intersection of Beech and US 60. Turn
right to continue the drive on the old
Midland Trail.

US 60 crests the Blue Ridge at
milepost 45.6 on the parkway. Fol-
lowing the signs, turn south onto the
parkway to a parking area just 500 feet
from the entrance.

The overlook offers a sweeping
view of the area just driven.

Retrace the route to return to Lex-
ington.

A more complete description of
the tours can be found in Country
Roads, available at the university book-
Store.

as

 

DOWN
1 School pad
2 Buffalo kin
3 Describe
4 ''— Necessarily
So”
5 Occupation
6 Yoko
7 Tabula —
8 Nautical term
9 Lampoons
10 Distinctive airs
11 Officer: abbr.
12 Religious deg.
13 Roll call word
14 Cupid
15 Scratch out
16 Makes high
grades
19 Malice
20 Alcoholic
beverage
22 — ark

32 Large insert in a

35 Crimean port
36 Sticky substances
38 Fencing rules

40 U. of Maine site
41 Slackening bar on

45 Monastery man

51 ““— Good Oid

53 ““— et mon droit"

55 Wrinkle

59 Ruhr city

61 Mama's title

63 Congers

66 Baseball pitch

67 Croc’s kin

68 Horseshoe toss

69 Sty occupants

70 Painter of
dancers

71 It. ace Balbo

72 Heart parts

76 Watts’ instrument

77 Provide with
money

78 Considers

80 “East of —"

82 Natives of: suff.

84 Chronicles: abbr.

85 Slats

88 Makes admired

90 Takes for oneself

94 Sunglasses

95 Settled

96 Convent

99 Gandhi's dress
100 Degree

dissertations

101 Refuse
103 Rose's zinger
105 Egypt. goddess
106 Modern weapon
107 Macula
108 Bivouac item
109 Make a web
110 List ender
111 Upset
113 Bull: Sp.
114 Be in charge
115 It. cathedral

city
117 West of films
119 Brooch

 

 

A raham-Lee-Washington

1809 wre!

 

 

 

. | premiering Wednesday, May 2O, 1992
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 6

 

 

NEWS

 

 

 

 

 

Jumping for joy

 

 

Photo by Kimberly Marcott, The Ring-tum Phi

 

Junior Tricia Perdigon participates in
Monday’s Jump Rope for Heart. The event,
sponsored by Kappa Kappa Gamma, raised

 

money for the American Heart Association.
Sigma Chi won the team competition and senior
Raphael Porres won the individual category.

 

 

Greeks address

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

The first phrase that flashes through the mind when
you hear the word ‘fraternity’ is probably not social con-
sciousness.

But at W&L, where mandatory seminars on social
issues for Greeks are the exception rather than the rule,
this may not be far from the mark.

Almost all of the 16 fraternities and 4 sororities have
annual educational seminars on topics ranging from date
rape to career development.

Although the goal is education, many fraternities are
nudged by their national organizations to have seminars in
order to lower their liability insurance.

According to Lambda Chi Alpha President Shane
Kinzey, their nationals require them to have a certain
number of seminars in order to decrease their insurance
rates.

Kimzey said Lambda Chi has watched a video on
date rape and has invited police officers to talk about
different issues.

But Pi Kappa Alpha President Darren Braccia said
his chapter holds seminars on its own.

““Our nationals don’t make us,’’ Braccia said. ‘‘We
have them because there is a great liability with having a

social issues

fraternity these days. We hope we can combat problems
by making people more aware.”’

Braccia said PiKA has held seminars on first aid,
alcohol and drugs.

Lauren Hartman, educational director for Kappa
Alpha Theta, said educating members on real-life issues
is part of the purpose of Greek organizations.

“We look at our sorority as a forum for doing these
things,’’ Hartman said.

Sophomore Chi Omega Linda Stratton thinks it’s ef-
fective to have speakers talk about topics.

“‘They help familiarize you with a topic that you
might not otherwise go out and seek information about,”’
Stratton said.

Sigma Chi President Charles Edwards said his house
makes a risk management seminar mandatory for officers,
but holds seminars on alcohol and date rape for brothers
and pledges.

The date rape seminar was especially informative in
light of the events at the beginning of the year, Edwards
said.

Edwards said members feel the seminars are worth-
while.

“‘Some guys may be apprehensive,’’ Edwards said.
““But they’re usually glad they went and they do get
something out of it.”’

TEM TEM oD;

 

 
 

 

Boston Butt
Pork Roast

 
    
   
 
   

 

“ethan

 
   

HARRIS TEETER MEANS
LOW PRICES!

More Than 70% Lean#—

Lb.

 

*REDUCED«
Ey

Th

PER LB,

 

 

 

 

    
 

* REDUCED
ty

 

x

California

 

Lettuce

59

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1992

New sorority is launched

Pi Beta Phi initiates 71, establishes Virginia Theta chapter

 

By JENNY MITCHELL
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Pi Beta Phi initiated 71 W&L
women Saturday into the newest
chapter of the oldest national wom-
en’s fraternity in the country.

The Virginia Theta chapter
was installed in ceremonies coincid-
ing with the 125th anniversary of the
sorority. Two juniors, 10 sophomores, «
and 58 freshmen and one alumna
were inducted by the Grand Council
of Pi Phi, the highest body in the
national organization.

The new chapter brings the
number of active W&L sororities to
four. Chi Omega, Kappa Alpha
Theta and Kappa Kappa Gamma

colonized in 1989 as the first sorori-
ties in W&L history. Delta Gamma
attempted to colonize here last year,
but was unsuccessful.

Pi Phi initiate and Panhellenic
Council member Joanna Love, said
one of the keys to her sorority’s
success was support from the other
three sororities.

“The idea that the other three
sororities were too big, and the cam-
pus needed another sorority was
really stressed,’’ freshman Love said.

Many members said they were
excited about the opportunity to be
charter members of the new chapter.
Among other things, members will be
responsible for writing the chapter’s
bylaws based on general guidelines

provided by the national sorority.

““We are setting our own tradi-
tions. It’s a neat feeling. The chance
to do this doesn’t happen to many
people,’’ sophomore Laina Ewan
said.

Pi Phi will hold a semi-formal
dance May 16, and will co-host a

“Spring Fling” dance with Kappa
Alpha Theta on May 22.

Freshman initiate Eleanor Roy
said she has high hopes for the new
chapter she helped found.

“It’s been fun to be able to
Start a new sorority and be able to
shape it,’’ Roy said. ‘‘I’d like to
come back in awhile and see what's
happened to it, if it’s what we intend-
ed it to be.”’

 

Get Set, Go!

 

Senior Martin Malloy
passes the batton to
freshman Kevin Batteh in
the Kappa Alpha Theta
Triathalon Sunday. The
event raised almost $200
for Court-Appointed Special
Advocates, which places
abused children in state
care.

 

 

Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
  

 

 

Embers
Charcoal

 

* REDUCED»
Lyd 3

 

 

nor

oh ‘le se

    

   

 

6 Pack - 16 Oz. N.R. Btls.

ae Or Diet
* Coca-Cola

 

REDUCED
PRICE

 

 

 

Prices Effective Through May 5, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective Throught May 5, 1992. In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Giadly Accept Federal Food Stamps.
The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1992

 

 

This is the kind of action that can be expected at
the 5th Annual Lee-Jackson Classic. The season
finale with cross-town rival VMI has belonged to

 

 

SPORTS

 

 

 

File Photo

the Generals the past three years, including 18-7
and 12-4 wins in the last two. The game will be
held. at Wilson Field on Saturday at 2 p.m.

Baseball ends on down note;
_ Stickley looks towards next year

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

 

So close, yet so far.

That would be a good way to describe the
Washington and Lee baseball team’s final week of the
season.

The Generals held leads in all four contests but
were unable to hold them. With the four losses, the
Generals finished the season with a 4-21 record. This was
the most losses since the 1985 squad went 6-21.

The Generals started the week by taking on the
Lynchburg Hornets. The Generals held their own
throughout most of the game, before finally falling 5-1. A
big improvement over their 15-3 loss to Lynchburg less
than two weeks ago.

W&L then faced the Hampden-Sydney Tigers. The
Generals led the Tigers early on and appeared to have a
solid grip on the game. However, the Tigers rallied and
took the contest 9-6. Again, the Generals played much
better but just couldn’t come up with the victory.

On Saturday, the Generals ended their season with
a doubleheader against Virginia Wesleyan. W&L jumped
Out to a 3-1 advantage in the first game, but gave it back
in the middle innings and lost 5-3. Senior TJ. Daly
started after throwing 90 pitches two days before. He
pitched well but was still saddled with the loss.

In the second game, the Generals led VWC 1-0.
However, the Generals were shut down the rest of the
way and lost their season finale 5-1.

  

       

J Jansport day packs and book b
Lexington Bike

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

 

Cannondale - TREK. - Diamond Back - Giant

Shop

  
 

The strong effort put forth the last week of the
season pleased head coach Jeff Stickley.

‘‘We were playing 100 percent better at the end,”
said Stickley. ‘‘The last week of the season was the best
we played.”’

‘‘We weren’t out of any of the games. We had a
chance to win them all, but we just didn’t put it together
in the end.’’

Despite the rough season, Stickley said there are
plenty of positive aspects to look forward to next season.

‘*All the guys are coming back. We’re only losing
four guys,’’ he said. ‘‘All the freshmen and sophomore
pitchers will be back, and that’s great plus.”’

‘‘Our strongest point.next year will be the infield
and catchers. Everyone's returning except T.J.[Daly]. So
we should be solid.’’

The returning players mark a bright future for the
Generals. Three freshmen led the team in four different
categories.

Catcher Todd Stanton led the team in hitting with
a .328 average; third baseman Duane Van Arsdale led the
team with four home runs and a .520 slugging percentage;
pitcher Brett Hartman posted a team-best 4.09 ERA.

Other team leaders included Daly, who led the
team with 17 RBIs and fellow classmate Brian Harper,
who posted a team-best eight doubles.

The song says, ‘“The future’s so bright, I gotta

wear shades.’’ It remains to be seen if the Generals future
is that bright, but it does show a great deal of promise.

463-7969

 

——— =

Page 7

Generals prepare for VMI

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee men’s la-
crosse coach Jim Stagnitta has seen it
before.

“It seems that whoever we
play seems to have their best game
against us,’’ he said. ‘‘I thought
Hampden-Sydney played as well as
they could in the first half.”’

But the Tigers were cooled off
after halftime, and W&L erased an 8-
6 deficit with seven straight goals and
won going away, 18-10. Senior Drew
Anton and junior David Lefkowitz
each scored twice during the run.

The key to the offensive
explosion was junior Derek Hutton’s
ability to win the majority of the
second half faceoffs. The Tigers won
nine of the 13 first half draws, but
Hutton tumed things around in the
second half, helping the Generals win
13 of 19 after intermission.

“Derek started to pick the ball
up and protect it,’ said Stagnitta.
“‘{Senior] Jeff O’Brien won a couple,
and that helped. And [freshman]
Michael Alessi kept the ball in the
middle of the field.’’

Hutton won 14 of the 23
faceoffs he took, and that allowed the
Generals to get into their offensive
patterns and put pressure on H-SC
freshman goalie Ray Lockard.

The Generals scored 13
second half goals, including two each
from juniors Wiemi Douoguih, John
Hunter, Lefkowitz and Anton,
sophomore Colin Higgins and
freshman Andy Dutton.

On the afternoon, senior Jeff
Roberts continued his consistent play.
Roberts collected seven points on
three goals and four assists. Hunter
had two goals and four assists, and
Lefkowitz had three goals and two
assists. Douoguih also scored three
goals. Junior David Schiminger added
a goal and two assists as well.

The defense allowed just one
third quarter shot for Hampden-Syd-
ney and 10 in the second half. The
Generals also won the battle of the
loose balls, picking up 70 ground
balls to just 45 for the Tigers. Over-
all, Stagnitta was pleased with the
team effort.

“Our defense adjusted and
stopped chasing the ball,’’ he said.
“‘We played with a lot of intensity.
We were all over them. We hustled
and played real hard. In the second
half we moved the ball better and
shot better.’’

Stagnitta’ was especially
pleased with Hunter’s and Anton’s
ability to score.

“Jeff Roberts and [junior]
Josh Levinson have been our con-
stants all year,’’ he said. ‘‘Dave Schi-
minger and Colin Higgins have been
there as well. But when Hunter and
Anton score, we win.”’

Lefkowitz scored three goals
for the second straight game and has
scored seven in his last three games.

‘‘David’s doing what he’s
supposed to do. He’s concentrating.
He’s got good stick work and good
eyes on the field,’’ said Stagnitta. ‘‘I
haven’t been real easy on him this
year, but he’s gaining confidence.”’

Lefkowitz has more than dou-
bled his previous two years’ goal
total. He has 16 on the season. He
had just 12 in his first two seasons.

The win improved W&L’s
record to 8-5 and 5-1 in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference. The
Generals finished second in the
ODAC and have been either first or
second in each of Stagnitta’s three
seasons as coach.

The Generals finish the season
Saturday with the fifth annual Lee-
Jackson Classic against Virginia
Military on Wilson Field. The Gener-
als have won the last three Lee-Jack-
son games, including 18-7 and 12-4
wins in the last two meetings.

VMI enters this year’s contest
with a 9-4 record and an impressive
win over Maryland-Baltimore County.
VMI’s strength is its defense, an-
chored by senior goalie Matt Ott. Ott
is ranked fifth in Division I with a
.688 save percentage on the year.

**VMI is better than they have
been,’’ said Stagnitta. ‘‘They play
hard and they shoot well. It takes
good shots to beat their goalie, and
it’s no secret that we don’t shoot
well,”

Roberts will be looking to
achieve a milestone in his career. He
needs six goals to reach 100 in his
career. He has scored six goals twice
in his career -- last year against H-SC
and earlier this year against Gettys-
burg. He would become only the fifth
player in W&L history to reach that
plateau.

 

 

From Staff Reports

 

The W&L golf team finished
second to Guilford in the ODAC
tournament earlier this week at the
Crossings in Richmond, Va.

The Generals fell 14 strokes
behind Guilford after the first day
and weren’t able to overcome the
deficit. It was Guilford’s first
ODAC Championship and stopped
the Generals two-year hold on the
title.

The Generals tried to rally on
the second day behind senior Jay
McKnight’s round of 72. The Gen-
erals finished the day at 308, but
Guilford hung tough and ended
their round with a 309.

McKnight and fellow class-
mate Clay Thomas led the Generals.
McKnight shot a two-day total of
152, while Thomas was two strokes
behind him at 154, Both players
were named to the all-tournament
team.

Guilford’s Cannon Morgan
was the medalist, by shooting a
149, beating McKnight by three
strokes,

McKnight’s 72 on the second
day the low round of the tourna-
ment.

 

~~ [SPORTS NOTEBOOK

Thomas was named the
ODAC Golfer of the Year for the
second time in three years. His
average this year was 77.7 strokes
per round.

The Generals, 33-2 on the
season, will now have to wait for
an invitation to the NCAA Division
III tournament. If invited, the Gen-
erals will try to finish in the top 10
for the third consecutive year.

The Washington and Lee men
and women’s track teams both
finished second at their respective
ODAC tournaments.

. The men finished a distant
second to ODAC power Lynchburg,
241-118. An injury-depleted
women’s team finished 19 points
behind winner Eastern Mennonite
College, 140-129.

The men were led by sopho-
more Scott Covey. Covey won the
400 hurdles in :55.6. He finished
second in the 110-meter hurdles,
and helped propel the 400-meter
relay team to a second-place finish.

Senior David Martin also had
an outstanding meet. He had sec-
ond-place finishes in the 800 and
1,500-meter runs. Fellow senior,
Charles Edwards finished second in

jump and the discuss throw, respec-

the 5,000, and junior Bo Hannah
finished fourth. Hannah also fin-
ished third in the 1,500.

Senior captain Jim Henry took
second in the shot put, while fresh-
men Robert Miggins and James
Mayberry finished third in the high

tively.

For the women, it was the
Sarah Gilbert show. The freshman
standout earned 41 of the 129
points by herself. Gilbert won the
long jump with an ODAC and
school-record leap of 16’-3’’. She
finished second in the 400 hurdles,
setting another school record of
1:16.9. She also finished second in
the high jump.

Sophomore captain Wendy
Neel had to compete with a bad leg,
but still set a school record. Neel
ran the 100-meter dash in 13.09. It
was a school record and earned her
third place.

Freshman Kim Herring set an
ODAC record in the 400-meter run.
She finished first with a time of
1:03.9. She also ran a leg of the :
winning 1,600-meter relay team.

Gilbert and Neel also helped
the 400-meter relay team set a
school record :53.03. It earned them
second place

 

 

 

 

Come to your Printing Center for:

Flyers and Posters
Copying and Printing
Programs :
Newsletters

University PRINTING CENTER 1st Floor Reid Hall - 463-8448

« Custom Resumes and Letters
°Ti

« Brochures and Booklets

* Scanning

        
 

   

e " -
Nirvana

T-Shirts $14.99
1992 Upper Deck Jumbo Pak Cards at $2.19

New Movies This Week:
My Own Private Idaho
Black Robe
Last Boy Scout
Little Man Tate
Frankie & Johnnie

Stonewall Square Mastercharge & Visa Accepted

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics Perfumes
Charge Accounts °* Free Delivery

The Printing Center offers quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job return, and
competitive pricing. We have a Macintosh |ix which can read IBM disks. Scanned
images can be added to your campaign or organizational flyers for that individual
appearance. Need a high resolution output? We offer our Linotronic 200SQ. Our

 

 

 

 

463-9800

 

 

 

Microcomputer and Prime
Student Workers Needed
for Spring Term

Computer Experience Preferred
Flexible Hours

Apply at

Tucker Hall Room 215A

 

 

 

 

 

Advance Your Education this Summer

Summer Courses in
Northern Virginia

The University of Virginia’s Division of Continuing Education
will offer the following courses at the University’s Northern
Virginia Center in Falls Church in the summer of 1992:

America in the Twentieth Century
(U.S. HISTORY 322, 3 semester-hour credits)

Calculus I
(MATH 121, 4 semester-hour credits)

Introduction to Statistics
(MATH 112, 3 Credits)

Principles of Economics: Macroeconomics
(ECONOMICS 202, 3 semester-hour credits)

Modern American Authors
(ENGLIGH LITERATURE 214, 3 semester-hour credits)

Modern American Government
(GOVERNMENT AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS 101, 3 semester-hour credits)

Contemporary Social Problems
(SOCIOLOGY 222, 3 semester-hour credits)

Theories of Personality
(PSYCHOLOGY 240, 3 semester-hour credits)

Note: Before registering for any of these courses, check with your advisor to
be sure they will apply to your degree program.

For more information call Sarah Seat at ‘ :
703-876-6912 or 1-800-OPT-4UVA. 4 J University of

UVA is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Institution.
NV92-8028

 

 

 

 

 

services cover University and non-profit organizations. Stop by today!

 

 

 

   

 

The Beauty Bar

1s9s.
463-2686
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAIN ST.

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT

 

 

 

Advertise

——is

in the Phi

 

Don’t delay,

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi
is the surest way
to all W&L students

463-8581

ask for Benji Plummer
or Whitney Swift

Call today!

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 8

This week’s scores:
Women’s Lacrosse - W&L 10, ROA 9,
ODAC Champs
Men’s Lacrosse - W&L 18, H-SC 10
Baseball - VWC 5-3, VWC 5-1
Men’s Tennis - 1st at ODACs
Women's Tennis - 1st at ODACs

 

Women’s tennis rolls
to second ODAC title

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

 

Break up the women’s tennis
team!

It has been a spring to
remember for the Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team.

They are 10-0 since beginning
their spring season on March 11. This
weekend they captured their second
straight Old Dominion Athletic
Conference title.

The Generals won six of the
nine flights, four of the six singles
and two of the three doubles.

“‘I was very impressed,” said
head coach Cinda Rankin. ‘‘I was
extremely pleased. I think we did as
well as we could do.”’

Sophomore Genia Foster
started the ball rolling by taking No.
2 singles, classmate Kim Dickinson
won at No. 4, freshman Liz McCord
took No. 5, and fellow freshman
Cathy Gartin won at No. 6. At No. 1,
freshman Marilyn Baker took third,
and at No. 3, sophomore Mary
Nabers finished second.

In doubles, the No. 1 team of
Foster/Nabers took first, the No. 2
team of Dickinson/McCord finished
third, and at No. 3, the team of
Baker/Gartin took home first.

Even with the large number of
wins, the tournament was not that
easy.

‘We really didn’t win that
easily,’’ said Gartin. ‘‘Genia[Foster]
beat a girl from Guilford that she had
lost to last week. Kim[Dickinson]
won in three sets in the semis. I think
we just played really well.’’

Coach Rankin credits the great
play of her team with her selection as

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the ODAC Coach of the Year.

*‘It’s all a result of the players.
If they play well it’s good for them.
Everything depends on the players.’’

‘‘T want the players to have
fun. In this ODAC tournament, it
looked like they were having fun and
they were loose. Yet, I’ve never seen
them play better.’’

It is the third ODAC title in
four years for Rankin. She also
coached the Generals to 12th at the
NCAA Division III Championships
last year.

The Generals now stand at 13-
3, 7-0 in the ODAC. They have a
chance to return to the Division III
post season tournament, but they
won't find that out until early Mon-
day.

Even if the Generals don’t
make the tournament, they’ve had an
impressive year. For such a young
team, the individual records are im-
posing.

Marilyn Baker finished the
year with a record of 19-3, Genia
Foster finished 18-6, Mary Nabers
ended at 15-9, Kim Dickinson was
16-7, Liz McCord was 17-6, and
Cathy Gartin ended with a 12-1 re-
cord.

What makes this all the more
amazing is the fact that none of the
six are above a sophomore.

That means the team is set for
next year. Even so, Rankin wants to
go to the tournament this year.

‘‘We’d love to go,”’ said Ran-

kin. ‘‘We’re ranked fourth in the

south, and it’s a 12 team tournament
taken from four regions. I’m not
terribly optimistic, but the door is not
closed yet.”’

 

Photo by Leigh Allen

MacNaughton and Yates no longer play doubles together, but they
will be counted on to lead the Generals past Swarthmore. That game
could determine if W&L goes to the national tournament.

 

Small house in town
for rent,
3 bedrooms. $675

Call Pat at

Vita & Associates
Realty
463-9551

  
     
   
   
     
      
   
 

FOR RENT:
4 bedroom, 2 baths. 1%
miles Rt. 60 East. July 1,
1992 to June 30, 1993.

463-5383

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Theater at Lime Kiln

needs housing for summer company members. Sublets,
rentals and house-sitting opportunities for any time
periods from May 16 to September 8.

Call 463-3074

 
  

To the Womens Lax Team:

CONGRATS!

Best of Luck To The

Graduating Seniors.
The Ripkens

  
  
     
 
   
 
   
   

a

 

 

E, Nelson St., Lexington

 

 

Valley TrueValue. Hardware

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat, 8:30-6:00

Sun. 1:00-5:00
463-2186

 

S

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

PORTS

 

 

Next week’s games:
Men's Lacrosse - 5/2 vs. VMI

Men's Tennis - 5/2 at Swarthmore

Track - Off for the week

 

 

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK

APRIL 30, 1992

 

Women collar

ODAC title

 

By JACOB KIMBALL
Phi Staff Reporter

 

game.
The women’s lacrosse

team could not have picked a earned her ODAC player of the
game with higher stakes to end week honors.
the Roanoke mystique. The five goals brought her

The Generals prevailed
10-9, on Roanoke’s own field,
and brought home the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference title.

The Generals had never
beaten their ODAC rival, but that
was not going to deter the Gener-
als.

Kimberly Bishop, a senior
who netted a record 122 career
goals in her four years, said the
team was prepared for Roanoke.

“We had lost to them 3 halftime lead.
earlier in the year because the Bishop said that the deficit
rivalry and Roanoke’s aura got to at halftime might have been the

us,”’ said Bishop. ‘‘But, this time
we were confident, we knew what
we had to do, and we came ready
to play.”’

Roanoke overcame an 8-6
deficit and sent the game into
overtime by scoring the last two
goals to knot it at 8 all.

At the onset of the six
minute overtime period, it ap-

peared that Roanoke still had the _ sively.

scored the game-winning goal 34
seconds later, her fifth of the

Dowling’s performance

season total to 45, which breaks
the record of 42 set in 1990 by
Bishop. Bishop finished just
behind Dowling by matching her
own personal-best of 42.

The Generals reached the
conference final by defeating
Bridgewater College 8-7 on Sat-
urday afternoon. Nicole Ripken
led the team with five goals.

In Monday aftemoon’s
final, Roanoke jumped out to a 6-

best scenario for the Generals.

““If we were winning we
might have not played how we
did in the second half. Instead,
we were behind and we came out
very aggressive.”

Aggressive not only de-
scribes the Generals play offen-
sively, where they ran off five
successive goals, but also defen-

 

on in the second half.

 

Freshman Nicole Ripken powered the Generals by Bridgewater in
ODAC semis with five goals.

While the defense was
suffocating, the offense went on a
tear. Pauline Mita scored:a goal
only 32 seconds into the second.

Photo by Kimberly Marcott .

receive a bid to the Division II —
tournament.

The ODAC title brings the ’
five seniors: Bishop, Hopkins,
Donaldson, Melissa Manko, and

momentum as they scored to go Roanoke scored only three Ripken added the second goal Julie Vennes to the end of their ’

up 9-8 with only 1:16 gone in the goals in 31 minutes of play, and soon after. ‘ careers.

extra session. were held scoreless the first 13 Bishop put the Generals in
Lisa Dowling responded minutes of the second half, in a the lead by scoring the next two. ‘‘We were members of the ’

by tossing in her fourth goal of total team defensive effort. Senior Whitney Hopkins finished _ first team, and we were so excit-

the game. Jennifer Donaldson record- the five-goal barage. ed just to reach the finals. Win-

With the score tied at
nine, the Generals turned up the
pressure. The result. Dowling

 

ed seven saves, many in one-on-
one situations. Ginny Dallam shut
down Roanoke’s offensive weap-

The Generals are 12-3 and
ranked 11th nationally. The team
will find out Sunday whether they

ning the conference championship
against Roanoke was the best
possible ending to our careers.”’

 

 

 

 

 

 

Men’s tennis wins eighth straight ODAC

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

It’s becoming a routine for the Washington
and Lee men’s tennis team that they are not plan-
ning on breaking anytime soon.

For the eighth consecutive year, the Gener-
als took the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
title. W&L won seven of the nine flights during the
two-day event. They posted wins in five of the six
singles positions, and two of the three doubles.

Picking up victories in the singles were
senior Richard Yates at No. 1, sophomore Robby
MacNaughton at No. 2, senior Tom Mazziotti at
No. 3, sophomore David Schweppe at No. 5, and
sophomore Jon Ingram at No. 6. Junior Wes
Ruggles finished fourth at No. 4.

In the doubles bracket, Yates and Mazziotti
took No. 2, and Ruggles and senior Kelly Vandever
took No. 3. MacNaughton and Schweppe finished
second at No. 1.

 
 

Logic 101

If it’s spring term...

W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St., Lexington - Below First American Bank

“I think we played up to our potential,”’
said head coach Gary Franke. ‘‘I was pleasantly
surprised by our success because I did have some
doubts going in.”’

With his win in the tournament, Yates was
named the ODAC Player of the Year, and claimed
the number one spot in the south region. He also
received a national ranking of 39th. MacNaughton
was ranked 6th in the region and 51st in the nation.

The team is now ranked second in the
region behind Washington College, but they have
fallen to 22nd in the nation.

The last dual match of the season is Satur-
day against 7th-ranked Swarthmore. It provides the
Generals with two goals to pursue.

One, a win will give the Generals their first
.500 season since 1990. Two, and more important-
ly, this match will determine if the Generals will be
given a chance of repeating their performance of
1988 at the Division III tournament.

          

3 four-bedroom houses
within city limits at $800,

1 four-bedroom house

‘“‘We have to beat Swarthmore,’’ said
Franke. ‘‘We just have to successful. If we don’t
beat them, it would be very hard to move on to the *
tournament.”’

“It’s up for grabs right now,’’ said Mac-
Naughton. ‘‘If we win convincingly we have a °
good chance of going.’’

Another interest for the some of the players
is the individual invites to the Division III Champi-
onships. i

There are four automatic bids from each
region. That means Yates is assured of a bid.
MacNaughton’s sixth-place ranking in the region,
and fifth-place ranking in doubles with Schweppe,
puts him on the bubble in both cases. '

‘“‘With the four automatic bids from each
region it will be very tough for MacNaughton,”’
said Franke. :

‘The first doubles lost in the ODAC finals ,
hurt, and they’re ranked Sth. It would be very
tough for them to make it too.’’ :

CRUISE JOBS :

Cruise Lines Now Hiring. Earn]
$2,000+ per month working on cruise
ships. World travel! Holiday,Sum-| °
merand Full-timeemploymentavail-|
able. For Employment Program call

-

*

«

 

 

 

 

 

OOOO OKSOHSHOHOHSSHOOHSOSSEOSOOE

, 1-206-545-4155 ext. C 328 :
within county at $800.
Party Pics Photographer
Mead Associate at
Ss No Experience Necessary
... Then go to Goshen. 463-7168 Tredaporiation Desired
SSOOSHSSSSESOOHSHSCOSSSOSOSOOSSES 1-800-235-5101 8

  
   
     
 
 

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

Vehicle For Sale

1987 Ford Bronco li. 53K, Fl V-6, AT, PS, AC, OD, 30 MPG,

immaculate. $6300 - Neg. Call 261-5016 after 5 p.m.

 

A he Rig hy te

*,

" S&S

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking

Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min /Satir: shoes dyed in 1 hr.

i

  

464-6666

   

 

 

 

 

 

Congratulations
To The New Initiates of the
Xi Lambda Chapter
of Chi Omega

Lucy Moore Cavett

Dorothy Elise Copeland
Leslie Augusta Copeland
Dierdre Tannahiil Denechaud
Melissa Anne Curtis

Stacy Lynn Donovan
Melinda Johnston

Jennifer Krystyna Lynch
Megan Elizabeth McCloskey
Leigh Erin McKinney

Noelle Maria Parrott
Annemarie Herta Paulin
Michele Loveday Ralston
Jane Axtell Shows

Sonya Maj Soderberg
Carrie Elizabeth Southgate
Patricia Anne Spruill
Katherine Erin Stephens
Linda Catherine Verlander
Elizabeth Anne Zarek
