Gan

Lay

u—_ .
s

*
+ ah it
arate «2 we

  

Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 24

Law student
drops civil suit
against W&L

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Assistant News Editor

 

A Washington and Lee law student who sued the
university because he couldn’t sleep dropped the suit
Wednesday.

Woods Creek East resident Christopher Rau, a third-
year law student, had claimed that noise froma construction
generator at the university heating and cooling plant woke
him at 7 a.m. for five consecutive weeks.

Rau had asked university officials to begin the construc-
tion later in the day or to buffer the sound, he said, but W&L
would only offer to let him sleep in an empty room in an
occupied apartment in Woods Creek Central. Rau refused.

In response the university filed a motion calling him
“irresponsible and reckless” for filing the suit and asking
the court to dismiss it and make Rau pay W&L’s legal fees
for the case.

The university argued that the generator did not violate
city law. Rau claimed that W&L violated a “covenant of
quiet enjoyment” that every lease in Virginia implies.

In the first hearing of the case before Lexington Gen-
eral District Court, Judge Joseph E. Hess asked Rau to
present more evidence before Hess heard the case.

At the April 7 second hearing, Hess excused himself
from the case, saying he was doing fundraising for W&L.
However, Hess said he had been leaning toward granting
W&L’s motion for Rau to pay the school’s fees.

After the hearing Rau told W&L’s attorney, Leanne
Shank, that he would drop the suit if W&L would drop its
motion for sanctions and give him a letter of apology, he
said. She refused.

Rau said the university later offered to drop its motion
if he would agree to pay the costs, which Rau was told
totaled $1,200. He refused.

On Wednesday, Rau said, he agreed to the university’s
offer that it drop the motion and not ask him to pay any fees
if he would drop his suit.

University Treasurer Lawrence Broomall said he saw
no reason “to continue to accrue costs that [Rau] couldn’t
possibly pay if we pressed him.”

Broomall dismissed Rau’s claim thata university should
accomodate student sleeping habits. “It was a frivolous
claim, certainly not worthy of a third-year law student.”

 

oe

bi si

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

Rain, Rain, Go Away

 

Photo by Teresa Williams, The Ring-tum Phi

 

many businesses, schools and roads.

 

Sophomore Linda Stratton tiptoes her way through the large puddles left outside
the Co-op by Tuesday's rainfall. Flooding in Lexington and Buena Vista closed

 

 

 

The Glee Club, shown above, and the Women's Chorus will not exist after this school year, thanks to a

restructuring of W&L's choral groups.

Single-sex choruses to be axed

New group, the Chamber Singers, to be created next fall

 

By Tom HEspos
Phi Staff Reporter

The Women’s Chorus and Glee Club will cease to exist
at Washington and Lee after this year.

According to Dr. Gordon Spice, head of the music
department, the current arrangement of choruses will un-
dergo a “restructuring” that calls for the end of the two
groups.

“The Women’s Chorus and Glee Club will be replaced
by a new group,” said Spice. “We're getting rid of the
single-sex choruses.”

The new group, called the Chamber Singers, will be
composed of 12 male and 12 female students. Spice will

conduct the new group. Singers who do not get into the new
ensemble will be able to sing for the University Chorus,
which will be expanded to take on more members.

Spice currently conducts the University Chorus, but
will shift those conducting responsibilities to music lecturer
Courtney Birch next year.

Spice said the restructuring will not affect Southern
Comfort or JubiLee in any way.

Ray Peeler, a freshman Glee Club member, said the
restructuring is due to the fact that Spice “can’t handle the
workload with classes and rehearsals all day.”

Peeler also said that with a small group of students in
the Chamber Singers, competition for spots in the group
could arise.

 

Kappa Kappa Gamma
Chi Omega

Kappa Sigma
Non-Sorority Women
Sorority Women
Kappa Alpha Theta
Chi Psi

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Phi Kappa Psi
Kappa Alpha

Pi Kappa Phi
Non-Fraternity Men
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Pi Kappa Alpha
Fraternity Men
Lambda Chi Alpha
Sigma Chi

Phi Delta Theta
Sigma Nu

Phi Kappa Sigma
Phi Gamma Delta
Beta Theta Pi

 

Grade Point Averages
for Winter Term

Carter to

From staff reports

 

 

Former President Jimmy Carter
will speak Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the
Warner Center.

Carter will also speak to a group
of students Monday afternoon.

Associate Professor of Politics
Robert A. Strong said Carter asked to
speak to a small group in a personal
atmosphere because he enjoys close
contact with students.

Strong said Carter encourages stu-
dents to ask about topics ranging from
his presidency to peanut farming.

Carter served as president from
1977 to 1981. His foreign policy ac-
complishments included a peace treaty
between Egypt and Israel, the SALT II
treaty with the Soviet Union and estab-
lishment of diplomatic relations with
China.

On the domestic side, Carter’s
administration presided over deregu-
lation in energy, transportation, com-
munications, and finance and saw pas-
sage of environmental protection laws,
including the Alaska Lands Act.

After his term as president, Carter
became a professor at Emory Univer-
sity in Atlanta and founded The Carter
Center of Emory University, which
addresses national and international
policy issues.

Born in Plains in 1924, Carter
attended Georgia Southwestern Col-

Hudnall convicted of larceny,
but serves no more jail time

Faculty

APRIL 23, 1992

vote

could kill CRC

 

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Students accused of sexual ha-
rassment will no longer face the Con-
fidential Review Committee if the fac-
ulty votes to kill the CRC May 4.

“The CRC is no longer a viable
option for student discipline at Wash-
ington and Lee,” said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison.

The Student Affairs Committee
submitted a proposal to the faculty that
would create separate disciplinary sys-
tems for sexual assault and verbal ha-
rassment.

Howison said that SAC voted 9-1
on March 27 to recommend that the
faculty replace the CRC with a Stu-
dent-Faculty Hearing Board to hear
complaints of physical sexual assault.

If a student complains of verbal
harassment, Howison said that he will
appoint a mediator to attempt to re-
solve the complaint. If that fails, then
the student who complains has the
right to take the case the Student Con-
duct Committee.

Howison said that some faculty
members do not think that the SCC can
responsibly handle cases of harass-
ment.

However, SCC President Chris
Haley has confidence in the system.

“People have to give the SCC a
chance to prove that this will work,”
Haley said.

Howison said that confusion
among students about how the CRC
operated and the possibility of over-
lapping jursidiction between the CRC
and the SCC were major reasons for
SAC’s decision.

The faculty must approve the pro-
posal by a majority vote at the next
faculty meeting May 4.

In March, the CRC made public a
six-month self-evaluation that outlined
a plan for prosecuting students who
break a “Principle of Civility and De-
cency.”

According to the 46-page report,
students could be expelled for calling
someone ugly or using racist language.

The report said that W&L stu-
dents are not protected by the First
Amendmentrightto freedom of speech
because W&L is a private school rather
than a state university.

In an October 8 speech in Lee
Chapel, author Dinesh D’Souza said
that university speech codes similar to
the one adopted by the CRC infringe
on students’ freedom of speech and are
too vague to be effective.

A recent editorial in the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch called the
CRC’s speech code one of the worst in
the nation.

Howison acknowledged that most
students did not support the CRC, but
said that this was because they were
confused as to how the CRC operates.

Howison said the Student-Faculty
Hearing Board will be composed of
four students and three faculty mem-
bers. The student members will be
chosen by the Excecutive Committee,
and the faculty by the Dean of the
College.

In other news related to SAC,
Howison said there are three new mem-
bers to the committee.

Panhellinic Council President
Carrie Eubanks will have a voting seat
on SAC starting this spring.

Professor DeMaria is leaving SAC
and will be replaced by Professors
Robert Ailius and Phillip Kline.

The extra faculty member is to
maintain the balance of faculty to stu-
dents on SAC, Howison said.

lecture Monday

   

W&L News Office photo

In addition to teaching at Emory University, Former President Jimmy
Carter volunteers for Habitat for Humanity, teaches Sunday school

and is a Baptist deacon.

lege, Georgia Institute of Technology,
and the U.S. Naval Academy.

After serving in the Navy from
1946 to 1953, Carter went home to
work the family peanut farm. He served
in the Georgia Senate from 1963 to
1967 and was elected governor in
1971,

Carter is the author of six books,

including his 1975 autobiography, Why
Notthe Best? and Keeping Faith: Mem-
oirs of a President in 1982.

Carter’s visit is sponsored by the
Robert L. Telford Distinguished Lec-
ture Series, an endowment established
by a 1922 WAL graduate to support
the visit of men of national and inter-
national stature.

 

 

 

 

 

3.187
3.149 By Catuy LopiccoLo
3,097 Phi Executive Editor
aa Former VMI cadet Chad Edward Hudnall was
3.045 convicted April 4 of stealing $354 from W&L junior
_ Christin Harvey, but will serve no more time in jail
3.034 for the offense.
3.004 A Rockbridge County Circuit Court jury found
2.982 Hudnall guilty of grand larceny, sentenced himto six
2.964 months in jail and fined him $600. However, Hudnall
2.944 received credit for the five months he spent awaiting
2.903 trial in the Rockbridge County Regional Jail and for
2,902 good behavior, and served no jail time after the April
2.896 4 trial. Hudnall was released from jail on bond March
2891 11, after being acquitted of rape and sodomy charges
5 853 filed by a W&L freshman
—— The jury also acquitted Hudnall of a breaking
2.841 and entering charge, finding insufficient evidence to
2.831 prove that the 19-year-old used force to enter
2.806 Harvey's Gilliam dormitory room without her per-
2.784 mission
2.781 The jury took almost two hours to reach its
99343 verdicts. After deliberating almost 90 minutes, the
foreman reported that the jury was deadlocked 7-5
Statistics from Registrar's Office The foreman said he figured they “could come toa

decision if we had more evidence.”

Judge George E. Honts III instructed the jurors
to deliberate again and take another vote or he would
be forced to call a mistrial. Ten minutes later, the
jurors emerged with what appeared to be a compro-
mise: one guilty verdict, one not guilty verdict.

Assistant Commonwealth's Attorney Robert
Joyce acknowledged in his opening statement that
the case against Hudnall was purely circumstantial,
since no one saw Hudnall take the money and the
money was never found in Hudnall’s possession.
The prosecution relied mainly on three pieces of
evidence: a partially burned photograph with
Hudnall’s fingerprint on it, statements Hudnall made
saying “it was possible” that he had the missing
money, and a wad of money found in Hudnall’s
roommate’s boot

Hudnall’s defense attorneys, Anita Filson and
Thomas Simons, argued that the evidence did not
prove Hudnall’s guilt. They argued that Hudnall
could have left the fingerprint on the picture during
one of his earlier visits to Harvey’s room, and that
anyone could have hidden the money in Hudnall’s
dorm room, since rooms at VMI are left unlocked
Hudnall did not take the stand

 

 

 

Photo by Patrick Hinely, W&l

Tourney Time!

 

 

 

Five Generals’ teams head into the ODAC
finals, beginning this weekend. See re-
lated articles on pages 7 and 8.

 

 
Page 2

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

Sneaking around

Our bronze Old George came back a sneak!
My God, the Hill won't even let us peek.

So let the alumni climb up to see

That behind such shrouds lies the CRC!!

The preceding poem was submitted to us anonymously
this week. Old George has returned to his perch. He came
back as he left, during Spring Break.

Some might be angry about his unexpected return.
Some might be confused about who the hooded figure is.
Some have even commented that he looks a little small
and that perhaps he’s been on a diet. But what’s certain is
that the trickery behind his return is just a symptom of a
larger problem at this university.

It just so happens that the reason the university chose
Spring Break for their statue raising was fairly logical —
they needed a time when they could close the Colonnade
for six hours, lest George fall and squash a student.

But why didn’t they tell us that in the first place? We
are not children. If they had told us their reasons, we
probably would have agreed. Instead, they made up
excuses for not putting him up during Mock Convention.
Their big excuse was ‘‘the crane that we use to lift him is
enormous and it would really tear up the front lawn to
raise him on a wet March day. Alumni Weekend would
be better.’ So, what did they do? They raised him on a
wet April day and destroyed the front lawn.

But the front lawn is not our main concern; we care
about administrators withholding the truth from students.
This subterfuge is not an isolated occurrence. Time and
again, the Hill says one thing and does another. Whether
it be the Watson Gallery, winter Rush, the car tax, the
CRC or Fraternity Renaissance, the Hill does not care
enough to deal straight with us. They would rather skirt
the truth. We deserve better.

Welcome back, George. Perhaps you can set them
straight.

463-9544
463-4912

No, not more of Homer Derrick’s home phone numbers.
Those are the new numbers to call if — OK, when — you
have a problem with the Phi.

Yes, Spring Break has come and gone, and the old Phi
staff has gone with it. Each year as we approach the end of
winter term, outgoing editors begin to count the days until
spring, and we, the incoming editors, realize that we won’t see
a Wednesday night party for at least another year.

The Phi will look pretty much .the same as it did
throughout the year. Still, we need to announce a couple of
policy changes. First, at Sigma Phi Epsilon’s request we’ll
refer to them as ‘‘Sig Ep’’ instead of ‘‘SPE.’’ We realize that
the old nickname is still used by many students, but fairness
dictates that we allow them to choose their own name.

Additionally, after they are released, EC and SCC decisions
will be listed — without names — below the General Notes on
page three. We just figure everyone will benefit from this
central, convenient notice.

And in the adventuresome spirit of spring term, next week
begins a trial advice column written by Dr. James Worth, the
university counseling psychologist. Feel free to send questions
(anonymously, of course,) to Dr. Worth at the Phi office.
Make them deathly serious, casual or anywhere in-between.

Again, remember that we like to call this the ‘‘student
newspaper of W&L.’’ So don’t hesitate to contact us — or
any of our colleagues in the staff box below. We can’t
promise we’ll be able to cure everything that ails you, but we
will listen and do our best to take your opinion into account.

Oh yeah. Some of you may have wondered about the
discreetly placed single-digit numerals that appeared in the ads
toward the end of winter term. The former editors were
counting the number of issues until their glorious departure.
Us? We’ve got 29 to go. TEE. CJL.

 

 

 

OPINION

 

 

 

 

Mayee IF WE ak

pa HIM witH

rus SHEET NO
ONE’ novice.

   
    

 

 

 

SN

 

~ PS

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 23, 1992

A guide out
of movie hell

 

 

 

A sinner repents

 

My VIEW

By Peter T. Hansen VMI'87, W&L '92L

Your article about the Confidential Review
Committee concerned me. As a student of Wash-
ington and Lee, I strive to fulfill my duty to the
punctilio of honor. General Lee, who steered this
institution during troubled times, would exhort this
were he living. Alas, (and it is a personal wound) I
have failed to uphold the duties which fall upon the
members of this academy.

Please forgive the confessional nature of what
follows. Embarrassing though it is, I find no other
remedy than open honesty with my colleagues.
Although none will approve of the acts I will relate,
will not the readers accept this humble apology in
the spirit in which it is offered, and approve my
rededication to the lofty ideals we cherish?

I was dismayed that the CRC hold up as exem-
plary of a breach of social balance having sex with
someone whilst he is intoxicated (I extrapolate
“she” by logical inference, grammar, and egalitari-
anism). Being a student and a husband, I have
violated this more times than I can recite without
blushing in shame. I grieve the disorder I wrought,
but do not regret the proximate cause of my son’s
birth. Insofar as the event exceeded decent and civil
conduct however, I wish it had been otherwise; the
sacrifice of my family continuation is paltry com-
pared with the evil perpetrated by my perfidious
act. On second thought, perhaps I do regret my
son’s conception. Nor can I recall our matrimonial
celebrations without remorse. The entire wedding
led me inexorably away from righteous principles.

I naively thought conforming my marital be-

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Thomas Eisenhauer, Cathy Lopiccolo
Joshua Manning

Leigh Allen

Greg Patterson

Francesca Kefalas

Executive Editors
Managing Editor
News Editor

Assistant News Editor
Editorial Page Editor

Features Editor
Copy Editor
Photography Editor
Editorial Cartoonist

Joyce Bautista
Craig Burke
Teresa Williams
JEB Tilly

John Simonton
Benjamin Plummer
Hal Waller

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but also
from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208 of the
University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

Phi reaches new
journalistic plateau

To Ms. Lopiccolo:

Have you been sleeping in your journalism
ethics class? Do you have any journalistic ethics?
How about if I sent this article to every major
newspaper, before you apply for a job? I’m sure
the Enquirer pays handsomely, or maybe you and
Jason Kelley can help Niall MacKenzie with his
upcoming masterpiece. Add a little bit of spice to
the plot, and a dash of sensationalism The Ring-
tum Phi style.

I realize that the recent rape trial is an impor-
tant issue on campus. And as the school newspa-
per it is your job to inform the W&L community
of recent developments. However, there is a line
between objective reporting and brutal insensitiv-
ity. You have notonly crossed it, you have reached
a new plateau in contemptible journalism. Any
merit this article might have contained is de-
stroyed once the complainant’s testimony is so
graphically described. It is not necessary to repeat
the intimate details of the crime with every new
development in the case. Don’t you realize that all
the women on this campus are vulnerable to rape?
As a potential victim, Ms Lopiccolo, do you not
realize how damaging and demoralizing the Phi’ s
coverage of this freshman’s experience has been?
Have you considered this girl’s feelings at all?

You have shown no consideration whatso-
ever for the two women mentioned in this article.
What exactly was the purpose of the passages

 

 
   

havior to the applicable laws of the Commonwealth
would be enough. Our native state had no such
prohibitions, and though abandoning the crimes
against nature (to use the parlance of the Virginia
Code) in which my wife and I indulged was a
sacrifice, I made it willingly, because the abstention
from carnal perversity is insignificant ‘compared
with the honor of being a law student. The CRC’s
added requirement has limited our conjugality to
the vanishing point, but as conforming to the laws
of the Old Dominion made me a better law student,
so conforming to the “Principles” will make me
better morally. What profits getting a J.D., or any
other degree, if we lose our souls in the process?

My initial trepidation has abated. I know who
the authors of this considered, noble document are,
and also know that professors here lead by ex-
ample, as Lee inculcated the honor system by first
living honorably himself. I am certain
the members of the CRC and faculty are already in
absolute harmony with the Principles of Civility
and Decency they wrote. (This would explain why
deans’ houses are so large; after all that famous
W&Lconviviality, they need domiciles large enough
for two master bedrooms, in order to avoid “the
near occasion of sin”.) I digress, I simply meant to
say that with a light heart and cheerful countenance
laffirm the circumscription of my marital relations,
and say “if they can, I can!”

Lastly, I draw resolve knowing W&L will
never abandon me without proper guidance. The
professors have been so vigilant over my ethical
welfare (dare I say, in this agnostic, cynical age, my
spirit?), I am convinced I will not even have to
request legal and psychiatric assistance when my
wife sues me for divorce, based on constructive
abandonment and infliction of emotional cruelty.

LETTERS

containing Hudnall’s justification for being in the
freshman dorm? The Phi has repeatedly men-
tioned his insinuations concerning Ms. Harvey.
Why was it necessary to quotethe unsubstantiated,
irrelevant hearsay (fifth paragraph, third column)?
All of the events leading to the trial have been
rehashed in order to squeeze every drop of sensa-
tionalism out of the story.

Have you forgotten that the entire W&L com-
munity reads this rag --- every professor, every
student, and every parent that receives an issue at
home? Clearly I do not expect every Phi article to
contain only the bare boned facts. Newspaper
articles should include some analysis and interpre-
tations for the reader. However, with this comes
the responsibility of treating your subjects, espe-
cially a W&L student who has been victimized,
with respect and sensitivity.

 

 

 

Sincerely,
Mai Spurlock, '94

Phi article was
insensitive

To the Editor:

On March 12th, I picked up a copy of the Phi
and sat down in the Pit to peruse our illustrious
university publication. However, instead of the
usual disappointment, I felt disbelief and disgust.
First of all, the fact that Mr. Hudnall managed to

Let IT RIDE

By Chris Swann

You can’t hide from it. You too get bored late
nights and turn on the television, hoping for some sort
of entertainment. And then you get sucked into Movie
Hell. You know what I’m talking about: after midnight
on HBO and Cinemax. These are the movies that would
make you want to nominate soaps for Oscars, movies
like “Howling VI: The Freaks” and “Big Busts.” To
save you from wasting your college years on bad
movies, I’ll give you a little taste of what to avoid.

Don’t ever see a movie that only has a few copies
in the largest movie rental store in your area. I saw
Flight of the Intruder over break, and it only had three
copies available ina 17,000-square-foot store. I should
have left it on the shelf to rot. Rosanna Arquette gets
perhaps ten minutes of

screentime, ten minutes  ‘ff’g Jike
too much.

Unless youareavery masturbating
violentperson, or wantto With a cheese
play the “let’s-drink- grater...’
everytime-somebody- __ Ford Fairlane

breaks-an-arm” game,
don’t rent Steven Seagal
or Jean-Claude Van Damme movies. If you want cult *
classics or a good laugh, rent really old martial arts .
movies with the awful sound effects and dubbing done
by a very slow and incompetent member of the Zulu
tribe who, by the way, speaks no English.

And then there’s the old standby, the cop-buddy
movies. This genre is more worn out than my first J.
Geils Band record. They have now taken it to sci-fi
territory, like 1] Come In Peace and Suburban Com-
mando. Rent a Dirty Harry flick and bag the rest.

Sean Connery is one of my favorite actors--while ~
not perhaps Academy award-winning material, his ,
James Bond is great. Just don’t watch anything he
made in the Seventies and Eighties beforeThe Un-
touchables.

Oh yeah--nothing starring a rock musician either,
beyond concept album films like The Wall” and Tommy.
This is like all those actors who want to sing, like Don
Johnson, for example (shudder). Like Ford Fairlane
said, “It’s like masturbating with a cheese grater--
mildly amusing, but ultimately painful.”

Science fiction movies without a multi-million
dollar budget aren’t worth the film they ruin. Without
special effects by somebody like Stephen Spielberg,
you’re wasting your time. I get turned off when I can
see the wire holding the spaceship in orbit over the
planet Zircon. Give me “Star Wars” or 2001 any day
over Moon 44 or Ice Pirates.

And now for some good movies...

Top Ten Movies Of All Time

10. Gone With the Wind. Ok, atear-jerker, but girls read
my column too (I think).

9, Animal House.

8. Dangerous Liaisons Talk about self-destructive
people. Best line: “What I’m trying to tell you, you
stupid little girl, is that you can do it as often as you like,
with as many people as you like, in as many ways as
you like.”

7. The Princess Bride. If you can watch this with
somebody who will not say every line along with the
characters, it’s hilarious. Best line: “Inconceivable!”
6. Casablanca. Bogie and the most gorveous woman
in Hollywood. ‘Nuff said.

5. The Searchers. John Wayne western that goes
beyond the stereotypical shoot-the-evil-Indians theme.
But you're probably too cool to watch a western, aren’t
you?

4. Raiders of the Lost Ark.. Kids in my neighborhood
were flaying their dogs and everybody else with
bullwhips for weeks.

3. The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly. Clint Eastwood,
a half-million in gold, 4 bad guy named Angel Eyes,
and a vehemently nasty Mexican gentleman named
Tuco.

2.9 1/2 Weeks. Just kidding.

2. Wild Orchid. Sorry, my computer’s being per-
verted, possibly by my roommate.

2.(again) Terminator 2: Judgment Day. This is the
“drink-everytime-somebody-loses-a-kneecap” movie.
Gotta love Ahnold. Oh yeah, Linda Hamilton’s a babe.

1. StarWars trilogy. Adventure, romance, spaceships,
Wookies, annoying droids, Yoda, Darth Vader, Prin-
cess Leia in slinky clothing and Han Solo’s smirk.

wriggle through the judicial system was enough to
induce vomiting. Although, this is beyond the
control of the W&L community, we can prevent
our university paper from printing malicious hear-
say about one of our own.

Miss Lopiccolo, who wrote the feature on Mr.
Hudnall’s case, seems to have overlooked one
small detail. The supposed physical relationship
between Hudnall and dorm counselor Christin
Harvey is most certainly NOT the issue in this case.
Miss Lopiccolo, however, chose to repeatedly
mention the alleged relationship in her news ar-
ticle. What did Miss Lopiccolo hope to gain by
printing these accusations? I know sensationalism
sells a lot of newspapers, but perhaps someone
should remind Miss Lopiccolo that the Phi is free.

Miss Lopiccolo has displayed a lack of integ-
rity and sensitivity by printing these allegations
against Christen Harvey. I fail to see the reason for
involving Miss Harvey in anews feature regarding
the verdict in the Hudnall case. I also fail to see how
a university which thrives on the honor of its
students can allow a journalist like Miss Lopiccolo
to write for one of its publications.

Kimberly Werst '94

Phi causes pain

To the Editor:

I was extremely disappointed to read the Phi’ s
sensational treatment of the recent rape case in-
volving a W&L freshman woman (Mar. 12, 1992
issue).

LETTERS continued on page 3

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, April 23, 1992

 

 

LETTERS continued from page 2

   

 

During this time in which many joumalists are
testing the bounds of ethical reporting, it seems
that a school newspaper with a small, defined
circulation would be extra careful with an issue as
sensitive as rape. However, the Phi succeeded in
humiliating the accuser, and probably scaring off
other women who would have considered coming
forward in the future. No woman wants to read the
accused’s account of her trauma in full detail on
the front page of a paper. Her name (thankfully)
was kept private for a reason. The details of her
ordeal ought to be kept private for the same reason.

In short, the article was simply irresponsible
and the names and details were unnecessary for
reporting the acquittal of Chad Hudnall. The Phi
Ought to remember in the future that what it reports
affects real people here on the W&L campus. It
should show some respect fora courageous woman
instead of causing her more pain.

Sincerely,
Shelby Kerr, '95

Journalists make
difficult decisions

To the Editor:

As members of the faculty of the department
of Journalism and Mass Communications, we
wish to express our support of the staff of The
Ring-tum Phi.

We do so not necessarily because we agree
with every decision made by every reporter and
editor, but because the staff’s guiding philosophy
is clearly appropriate. The editorial in the March
19 issue is an eloquent statement of the principles
that should guide journalists. We believe the re-
porters and editors strive mightily to uphold those
principles, nearly always with complete success.

As a journalist, each of us has made decisions
that have caused deep distress and harsh criticism.
Thankfully, in most cases we were correct. Sadly,
in some case we erred. But it was absolutely
necessary for us, rather than some governmental
tribunal or arbiter of social graces, to have made
those decisions.

A press that is free from instant governmental
or social control is a requisite of a free society. We
must never forget that fact, especially when the
press’ mirror indicates all is not ideal in our world.
As the Phi editorial noted, the events reported on
did in fact occur; not chronicling those events
performs little service and has the potential for
great harm.

No one is more conscious of the audience’s
response than the people who regularly put their
work before an audience. No one knows better
., that a story can harm people and institutions,
regardless of how sensitively a’story is written or
displayed. No one is more aware of the compelling
good and evil a story may cause. for that reason, it
is usually incorrect to assume that thoughtlessness
or wrongheadedness is the cause of a story being
handled in a way we dislike. We can disagree with
how a story is playede== and if we do, we should
let our opinions be known. But it is equally impor-
tant torecognize that a state-controlled press serves
the state, not the public. In other words, the issue
is not protection of the public but control informa-
tion.

The university is in the process of considering
achange in the mission of the Confidential Review
Committee. At question is whether harassing
speech should be subject to censure, including
expulsion. Those of us who are uncomfortable
with restricting speech must likewise be discom-
fited with proposals to impose student-govern-
ment oversight over the stories in The Ring-tum
Phi. Those of us comfortable with student-gov-
ernment control of the Phi must wonder whether

 

 

Page 3

 

OPINION

 

 

 

LETTERS

control of the Phi by Washington Hall would be
equally praiseworthy.

Sexual assault will not go away if it is not
reported. Financial mismanagement will not cease
if it is not reported. Tuition increases will not stop
if they are not reported. Parking spaces will not
become available if their absence is no longer
reported. Athletic teams will not become confer-
ence champions overnight if their losses are not
reported. Watson Galleries will be built regardless
of whether opposition to them goes unreported,

Let us freely, openly <= and vehemently, if
we wish — discuss the Phi’ s news coverage. Let
us be critical of the Phi editorials and write out-
raged letters to the editor if we disagree with them.
But let us also remember that in totalitarian states
the press is controlled as an organ of government
and that in democratic societies the press is free so
it may serve the public.

It is our belief that an untrammeled Ring-tum
Phi, by trusting its readers with information, serves
them far better than would a Phi controlled by a
handful of Executive Committee officers.

 

Signed,

Robert J. de Maria
John K. Jennings
R.H. MacDonald
Brian E. Richardson
Hampden H. Smith III

W&L students
have earned trust

To the Editor:

I read with dismay a recent account in the
Richmond newspapers of the Confidential Re-
view Committee’s recommendation that the First
Amendment rights be trampled in the name of
“civility” and “decency,” PC buzzwords as dan-
gerous to a serious institution of higher learning as
they are reprehensible. The reports of the proposal
only serve to make the panel, and the administra-
tion that sanctions it, look foolish as well as grossly
irresponsible.

When did the honor system fail to be ad-
equate? Why does the administration feel it’s
necessary to protect the gentle sensitivities of the
certain students at the expense of the freedom of
expression, and the University’s good name? Are
students now so incapable of policing themselves
in the realm of proper conduct and serious deco-
rum that the administration is stepping forward in
an Orwellian fashion to promote its obvious goal
of diversity, victims studies, and hypersensitivity?
I give W&L students more credit than that, ‘but
hope itis not wishful thinking.

All students should be insulted by this far-
left, “thought police” type of tampering with basic
rights, and the open world of free expression
WA&L once was.

Respectfully,
John Maass, '87

MayorH.E. Derrick
defends car tax

To the Editor:

Your editorial in the February 27 issue of the
Phi has been brought to my attention. Unfortu-
nately I was not in town at the time, so those who

  

tried to call me only got my answering machine.
Surprisingly, there was only one message left, and
that one not very effective.

I suppose that whenever tax tickets go out this
issue will be revisited. No one actually likes to pay
taxes and a negative reaction is almost inevitable.
But I would like to refer you to the enclosed
“Personal Property White Paper” which was sent
to your publication last year. While it was pre-
sented in response to a proposed boycott of down-
town businesses, the basic facts remain the same.

The whole issue of taxes and revenues neces-
sary to support the services provided our commu-
nity are of course far too complex to cover in a
single page summary and I would invite the editors
of the Phi to meet with me to discuss the personal
property tax in particular, and the city’s finances in
general. I would appreciate the opportunity to give
you the whole picture, rather than have you edito-
rialize from a very narrow perspective.

Incidentally, I work very long hours six days
a week, so I’m notat that home number very much.
Youare far more likely to find me at my dealership
— 463-2116. And people around here call me
Buddy.

Sincerely,
H.E. Derrick, Jr.
Mayor

Imaginary car was
real at some point

To the Editor:

In response to Heather Olsen’s letter and her
tale of the “imaginary car,” there are several facts
that should be presented. There is a“‘REAL CAR.”
This genuine vehicle was assessed to her father
who is the registered owner. Contrary to the state-
ment in the letter, we know the license plate num-
ber and the tax assessment was based on the make
model, and identification number of this vehicle.
Miss Olsen might not keep this vehicle in Lexing-
ton but it was here at some point or we would not
have had this information. Our abilities in this
office do not extend to imagining the exact license
number, registration and other information spe-
cific to this auto.

Virginia law states that vehicles should be
assessed for taxation where they are usually ga-
raged. It has been ruled that vehicles operated by
students during the school year become part of the
property of the jurisdiction where they are attend-
ing school. The law requires taxpayers to report
property subject to the local tax commissioner and
provides for a penalty when it is not reported.
Finally the law vbligates the tax commissioner to
assess the property, based upon the best informa-
tion he can obtain, when it is not reported. There is
no reference to an exception or exemption for
vehicles operated by students.

I don’t claim that errors are not made in the
assessment office. We do make mistakes but when
they are called to our attention, we correct them.
Obviously, in the area of vehicle assessment, more
errors are made when property is not reported. In
this particular case, Mr. Olsen notified us that his
vehicle was not garaged in Lexington and his tax
bill was abated.

Most will agree that there are enough real
vehicles in Lexington to make it unnecessary to
assess imaginary ones. Since I am obligated to
assess property in Lexington, and since most stu-
dents do not report the vehicles that they have at
school, perhaps Heather Olsen can offer sugges-
tion for a more efficient strategy to complete this
assignment. I am very open to new and better
ideas.

Courtney P. Baker,
Lexington Commissioner of Revenue

 
 

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Swimming

Two sessions of swimming
lessons will be offered: one
beginning April 27, the other on
May 4. Afternoon sessions will
included classes on beginning
through lifeguarding levels.
Interested persons should report
to the university pool Saturday
at 10 a.m. for registration and a
water evaluation.

Lost Coat

A women’s blue coat was left in
Doremus Gymnasium after FD.
If found, call Suzanne at 3-
6968.

Soup Labels
Thanks to all those who have
contributed Campbell’s soup
labels for the Virginia School
for the Deaf and the Blind.
W&L collected 700 labels to
help the school buy equipment
for the blind. A second cam-
paign has begun to contribute to
the department for the deaf.
Send labels to Valerie Hedquist,
duPont 103.

   

Law Forum

A forum on law, business and
the environment in Eastern
Europe will be held tonight at
6:30 in Evans Dining Hall. A
panel will include lawyers,
businessmen and educators with
experience in the former Soviet
bloc.

Survey

The Computer Center is con-
ducting a survey on student
computer use. Surveys will be
distributed outside Evans Dining
Hall and the Co-op or can be
picked up in the computer labs.

Triathalon

Join the Third Annual Kappa
Alpha Theta Triathalon Sunday.
The race consists of a half-mile
swim, 13-mile bike, and a 3.1
mile run. Sign-up in front of the
Co-op Friday. Individual entries
are $12, and three-person teams,
$30.

Bowl-a-thon
Raise money for the Cystic
Fibrosis Foundation by getting
sponsors and bowling. Bowl-a-
thon will be held Sunday, May
3, 12 to 4 p.m. Call Chris Bar-
adel at 4-5393 for info and
sponsor sheets.

Calyx Candids
The Calyx is accepting candids,
especially of FD, until April 28.
Put your name, address and
class on the back if you want
them returned and put them in
the envelope outside the Calyx
office.

Look! Jobs!

Frito Lay/Pepsico will interview
seniors Wednesday for sales
associate positions. Sign up in
the CDP office. A company
profile meeting will be held
Tuesday, University Center
room 114,

World Record

Craig Shergold is a seven-year-
old boy with an inoperable
tumor and little time to live.
Craig wishes to make it into the
Guinness Book of World Re-
cords for the largest number of
get well cards ever received.
Send a card to: Craig Shergold,
c/o Make A Wish Foundation,
32 Perimater Center East, Atlan-
ta, GA 30346

Future Teachers
Want to obtain your teacher
certification? Meet with repre-
sentatives of Mary Baldwin
about the EXCHANGE program
Tuesday, May 5 from 10 a.m. to
12:30 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge.

Women’s Forum
There will be a Women’s Forum
meeting Sunday at 6 p.m. in the
Arlington Women’s Center. All
are welcome.

Play Classical
Do you like classical music?
WLUR needs a few classical
DJ’s to fill up spring term slots.
No experience necessary. If
you’re interested, call Josh at
463-5117 or Leland at 464-
3999.

Pulitzer Reading
Lewis B. Puller, Jr., whose
autobiography Fortunate Son:
The Healing of a Vietnam Vet
won him a Pulitzer Prize two
weeks ago, will give a reading
from his book Friday at 7:30 in
VMI’s Lejeune Hall.

Clean Air
Raise money for the American
Lung Association of Virginia in
the ‘“‘Clean Air Challenge,’’
Sunday, May 3 Massanutten
Resort in Harrisonburg. You can
hike, bike or swim. $10 registra-
tion and $25 in pledges gets you
a free meal and water bottle. To
register, call (703) 434-LUNG.

Get It Out

Need to get a message to the
Student body? Put it in the Gen-
eral notes. Leave a brief, typed
note in the General Notes enve-
lope outside The Ring-tum Phi
office, University Center 208.

You can compile the General
Notes if you call 463-5117
and leave a message.

 

Do the Notes!

The Phi needs someone to compile the General Notes each week. It’s
quick, and it’s easy. Contact Josh Manning at 3-5117 or 3-8581.

 

 

   

by Jameson Leonardi

What excites you about spring term’?

Interviews and photos

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Horacio Colon, ’94, San Juan, Julie Edgar, ’93, Macungie, Rajiv Zutshi, °95, Cairo, Travis Corder, °92, Mel- Marcy Wood, ’94, Hirkon, Duncan Miller, 92, Memphis,
Puerto Rico — ‘“Things warm- Pa. — ‘‘Puddle jumping!”’ Egypt — ‘Coeds in shorts bourne, Fla, — ‘‘Not sweating W.Va. — ‘‘Goshen.”’ Tenn, — ‘‘Nothing that could
ing up for summer.” sunbathing on the Colonnade.”’ the petty things, just petting the be printed.”’

sweaty things.”’

 

 

 
Page 4

 

 

W&LIFE

 

 

Music festival comes to W&L

 

DaviID WILMINGTON
Phi Staff Reporter

On May 3 and 4, Washington and
Lee will again host some of America’s
finest composers and instrumentalists.

The Sonoklect New Music Festi-
val enters its third year with concerts in
the Lenfest Center featuring music by
Nicholas Maw, Margaret Brouwer,
Gary Lee Nelson, and Pulitzer Prize -
winner Stephen Albert.

Assistant Professor of Music Mar-
garet Brouwer created the festival.
According to her, it provides opportu-
nities for the public to attend lectures
and panel discussions staffed by com-
posers and performers.

Brouwer said the purpose of
Sonoklect is “to provide W&L stu-
dents and the Lexington community
with exposure to New Music per-

formed by fine musicians”.

Although most people assume that
contemporary music is dissonant, the
works being performed at this year’s
festival show that composers have not
abandoned the tonal traditions of clas-
sical music.

Nicholas Maw’s “Ghost Dances”
shows great respect for tradition while
utilizing native African, Pakistani, and
American instruments to create unique,
expressive music.

Stephen Albert’s “To Wake the
Dead” uses thoroughly tonal harmo-
nies to portray the dream-like text of
James Joyce’s Finnegan's Wake.
Brouwer’s “Skydiving” is a piece for
flute, violin, cello, and piano that main-
tains a consonant sound while using
atonal harmonies.

The performing ensemble for this
year is the nationally reknowned 20th

 

 

Sonoklect
Sunday, May 3

Schedule

4:00 - 5:00 p.m. Seminar: duPont 102.
Nicholas Maw, composer

7:00 - 8:00 p.m. Pre-Concert Discussion: Lenfest Center
8:00p.m. Concert: Lenfest Center

20th Century Consort

Christopher Kendall, Conductor
Monday, May 4

3:00 - 4:00 p.m. Panel Discussion: Northen Auditorium
Music Administration: Presenting Music to the Public

Monday, May 18

Computer Music, MIDI performance

8:00 p.m. Concert/Lecture
Gary Lee Nelson
Wednesday, May 20

3:00 - 4:00 p.m. Workshop/Demonstration: duPont 301
Mathematical Models For Musical Composition

 

 

Lexington

130 S. Main St.

Cannondale - TREK. - Diamond Back - Giant
J jansport day packs and book b

Bike

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

Shop

463-7969

 

 

TG

 

IF

Outlet Stores

Don’t forget to shop in our new BARGAIN ROOM

30 S. Main Street
R.E. Lee Building
9:30-5:30, Mon.-Sat.

463-9730
50-80% Savings on Nationally Advertised
Catalog Brands

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  
   

\oppogalo
WINTER SALE

All Winter Merchandise — 12 Off
“Spring Fashions Are In”

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

 

 

Century Consort from Washington
De.

The group is the resident ensemble
at the Smithsonian Institution’s
Hirshorn Museum and includes prin-
cipal players from the National Sym-
phony Orchestra as well as chamber
musicians from Washington D.C. and
New York.

The Artistic Director and Con-
ductor of the Consort is Christopher
Kendall - Associate Conductor of the
Seattle Symphony Orchestra, founder
of the Folger Consort, and guest con-
ductor with the San Francisco Cham-
ber Symphony and the Chamber Mu-
sic Society of Lincoln Center.

In past years, students from other
universities have entered their own
compositions in a contest sponsored
by Brouwer.

The winners’ pieces are performed
by the professional Sonoklect en-
semble. This year, however, the 20th
Century Consort will be making a pri-
vate recording of two Washington and
Lee students’ works.

“The Consort is a very famous
ensemble. Most composers would kill
to get arecording done by them. These
students should feel very lucky to have
this opportunity," Brouwer said.

The second Sonoklect concert will
be a concert/lecture on May 18 by
Oberlin College Conservatory’s Pro-
fessor of Electronic and Computer
Music Gary Lee Nelson.

Nelson will make use of synthe-
sizers and various computer generated
sounds as well as a new invention
called the MIDI horn.

The MIDI horn is similar to the
traditional horn as far as the sound it
makes and the way it is used by the
musician. However, the MIDI horn is
totally computerized. The musician, in
essence, is the programmer of the MIDI
horn.

On May 20, the math and music
departments will be attending a work-
shop/demonstration called “Math-
ematical Models for Musical Compo-
sition,”

This presentation will involve the
use of fractals and probability in music
and is open to the general public.

SHOE FIXERS

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satir: shoes dyed in 1 hr.

LEE HI

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

   

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

The Ring-tum Phi, April 23, 1992

Sommers b

 

  

  

  

 
   

 

 

Be Dba we vente bat ae th

Bw
a

aw:
FIN SOT ARAN
Wis tales own

          
   
      

Student rubs elbows with stars

Freshman works on set of Jodie Foster/Richard Gere movie

 

By NICOLE KEELER
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Freshman Chris Albert’s Spring Term Internship has
him working an exhausting 18-hour day. But Albert says
he wouldn’t want it any other way.

Albert is the location intern on the Richard Gere/Jodie
Foster movie Sommersby which is being filmed at the
Warwickton mansion in Bath County’s Hidden Valley.

According to Albert, Sommersby is post-Civil War
love story about a Confederate soldier (Gere) who returns
to his Southern plantation to be reunited with his wife
(Foster) and children.

As location intern, Albert works under the direction of
Locations Manager Scott Elias and On Set Manager Anna
Craven.

Elias has worked on the TV show In the Heat of the
Night and the current box office flick, My Cousin Vinny.
Craven worked on In the Heat of the Night and several
episodes of Miami Vice.

“ They're really cool and great people, I love working
for them,” Albert said.

As locations intern, Albert sees that things run smoothly
on the set.

According to Albert, due to the unique location of the
movie (in George Washington National Forest) his job is to
ensure that production goes well.

“We also work with the family that lives in the
Warwickton Mansion to see that they are not inordinately
inconvenienced, and with the National Park Service,” he

‘ 464-6666

 

said.

Albert’s duties include: setting up catering services,
guarding the set from unauthorized press members, and
other general tasks

“The other day I had to stake off sections of the lawn
because people were driving over it, and the director was
getting angry,” Albert said.

Albert says he’s met both of the stars, but only briefly.

“T was introduced to Richard Gere the other day, but
that morning ithad taken four hours to filma ninety second
scene,” he said. “He had had to repeat the same lines over
and over again, he was exhausted.”

According to Albert, the multitude of camera angles
makes a few seconds of film a full day’s work.

Albert says an entire period town, complete with
doctor’s office, general store, corral and mill, was built
specifically for Sommersby. The set designer is Bruno
Rubeo, who has worked on Driving Miss Daisy, Albert
said.

Albert says he was impressed by all aspects of the
film’s production. “The costumes are fantastic and our
sound mixer (Christopher Newman) was just nominated
for an Oscar for his work on Silence of the Lambs,” Albert
said.

Despite the long, hard hours Albert says the time
spent on the set has been great.

“It’s an incredible experience. I’m learning a lot
about the movie business and movie making, I’m on the
crew sheets and really feel part of the team,” Albert said.
“Basically, I’m having an awesome time.”

SERVILITAR.
LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY —

23 South Main St., Lexington, VA 24450

463-2242

 

 

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

Valley

 

 

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
E. Nelson St., Lexington

TtueYale Hardware

Sun. 1:00-5:00
463-2186

 

 

 

    
 
    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

erntts

 

Altin-£

  

 

 

Advance Your Education this Summer

 

  
  
  
   

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

 

a he Rig hy 2

" @

 

703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
   
    

102 W. Washington Street

* Duckhead Shorts

* Knit Shirts by Cross Creek & Izod

* Dirty Bucs & White Bucs by Walkover
* Ray Bans

* W&L Belts, Ties, & Dog Collars

Since 1963
MasterCard Student Charge

(703) 463-5383

Visa

 

 

 

 

 

     

   

  

Pet

Nirvana T-Shirts $14.99

1992 Fleer Cards at $1.99

New Movies This Week:
Last Boy Scout
Little Man Tate
Frankie & Johnny
and many more

Stonewall Square Mastercharge & Visa Accepted

 

 
    

1992 Upper Deck Jumbo Pak Cards at $2.19

463-9800

Summer Courses in
Northern Virginia

The University of Virginia’s Division of Continuing Education
will offer the following courses at the University’s Northern
Virginia Center in Falls Church in the summer of 1992:

America in the Twentieth Century
(U.S. HISTORY 322, 3 semester-hour credits)

Calculus I
(MATH 121, 4 semester-hour credits)

Introduction to Statistics
(MATH 112, 3 Credits)

Principles of Economics: Macroeconomics
(ECONOMICS 202, 3 semester-hour credits)

Modern American Authors
(ENGLIGH LITERATURE 214, 3 semester-hour credits)

Modern American Government
(GOVERNMENT AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS 101, 3 semester-hour credits)

Contemporary Social Problems
(SOCIOLOGY 222, 3 semester-hour credits)

Theories of Personality
(PSYCHOLOGY 240, 3 semester-hour credits)

Note: Before registering for any of these courses, check with your advisor to
be sure they will apply to your degree program.

For more information call Sarah Seat at . -
703-876-6912 or 1-800-OPT-4UVA. \ J University of

UVA is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Institution.
NV92-8028

 

 

 

hw
hal
S
hal
2
CJ
haf
ha
hed
e
bd

j= Britain in the Enlightenment

  
  

British Studies At Oxford

A Program offered by Rhodes College in affiliation with
The Associated Colleges of the South

July 5-August 11, 1992

The College of Saint John Baptist, Oxford University, England

Forty Lectures, Nine Seminars (choose two) in Art History,
History, Literature, and Political Science
Six Semester Hours Credit. Full Board, Room, and Tuition, $4,550.00

Scholarship Assistance Available

For further information please write or telephone
The Office of British and E uropean Studies
Rhodes College, Memphis, Tennessee 38112

Tel (901) 726-3715 Fax (901) 726-3717

 

1 an he SRS

,-
Pay tag

ie

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 23, 1992

 

Wé&LIFE —-

 

 

 

 

 

 

From the land of beer

W&L Wind Ensemble spent 10 days in Germany
over Spring Break. On the right, freshman Aki Nichols
rehearses with the rest of the group in Munich. The Wind
Ensemble performed in historic cities such as S: alzburg
and Frankfurt. In between rehearsals the group found time
to sight-see. On the left, they take time-out to pose in front
of the majestic German Alps.

 

 

 

 

Photo by David Wilmington

 

Tea time in England

The Washington and Lee University Chorus toured
England and Scotland Spring Break. On the right, the
group got a chance to perform at Craigmillar Park Church
in Edinburgh, Scotland. On the left, Andrew Keller visits
the Palace of Holyroodhouse in England.

 

 

 

Photo by Anne Spice
Photo by Raymond Peeler

 

 

 

 

 

aS )
NTT STRAWBERRIL

   
  

 
   
 
 
   

 

STRAWBERRIES

SUE VALuasiE COUPON Br
: 7 1 AL 33 PINT OF | |

| STRAWBERRIES |

When You Purchase One Pack Of
Keebler Ready Crust Tart Shells

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon
Per Family, Per Visit, With $10. 00 Additional Purchase.
Offer Expires ee 28, 1992.

AA

 

 

TYSON - HOLLY FARMS GRADE "A"

BREAST QUARTERS

TEG QU AR TER S " | MPa

LEG Q SAVE

oi

   
  

    

 

     

 

 
    
  
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

*REDUCED+
SAVE

ee LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY!

Prices Effective Through April 28, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, April 28, 1992. In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

seiesiiiiiiaimmmaieatien

 

QUART...$1.39 eons
3 9 FLAT (12 PINTS)...$8.99
s. @ Bie”
LIMIT 3 PKGS. WITH ADDITIONAL BN ccsccioseorccs 2cr I @ saa :
waieainc 99 Age gee
- bell = U.S.D.A. CHOICE BONELESS WIP i ai 802. 99 FLAKES COEAL 8a 1002 1°?
eo ipa pied ag| | QUARTERS - PARKAY | 2 LITER
ea _-— MEDIUM SHRIMP. 4°"! | MARGARINE | | PEPSI COLA
VER NEDALE BOUNTY (60 SQ. FT) 1 LB. PKGS. BOTTLE
ICE CREAM PAPER TOWELS 2/
5 QT. PAIL 1 ROLL
a For
99 3 So

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Page 6

 

 

 

Voting conflict

taken to

By THOMAS EISENHAUER
Phi Executive Editor

 

 

A Washington and Lee law
student is going to court in his quest
to register to vote in Lexington, but
the city registrar has told two under-
graduates that she will allow them to
register.

First-year law student Chris
Kowalczuk has appealed to Chief
Judge Rudolph Bumgardner of the
25th Circuit Court to overturn Lex-
ington Registrar Lucille Joyce’s refus-
al of his voter registration application.
Normally, Judge George E. Honts III
hears such appeals, but he withdrew
from the case after Kowalczuk pro-
tested that Honts had conferred with
Joyce before her original refusal.
Kowalczuk’s trial is set for next
Thursday.

Last month, Joyce refused to
register Kowalczuk and sophomores
Matt Jackson and Ryan Dennard,
saying that they did not qualify as
Lexington residents because they
have only nine-month apartment leas-
es. Dennard appealed to Honts, who
upheld Joyce’s decision.

According to the Virginia Con-
stitution, citizens can vote only in
their places of residence, which in-
cludes ‘‘both domicile and place of
abode.”’

One week later Joyce reversed

court

her earlier position and told Jackson
and Dennard that she will allow them
to register. Jackson said that Joyce
changed her mind after he wrote her
a letter stating his intent to make
Lexington his place of residency.

The Code of Virginia says do-
micile may be determined by ‘‘intent,
conduct and all attendant circumstanc-
es,’’ such as financial independence,
leasehold and sites of personal and
real property.

However, Kowalczuk said Joyce
didn’t believe him when he stated his
intent. He said he has not lived in his
native Ohio since 1987.

“It’s a little bit of a mystery to
me why she refused my application,”’
Kowalczuk said. “‘She seemed more
hung up on our previous conversa-
tion.”’

If he loses this case, Kowalczuk
said, he will appeal to the Virginia
Supreme Court, the subsequent appel-
late court for voter registration cases.

The problem facing students
attempting to register, Jackson said, is
that the statute is so ambiguous that
each registrar must define residency
for himself.

“We're working with Mrs.
Joyce on this,’’ he said. ‘‘In the long
run we hope to establish a mutual
understanding so that other students
will understand how to register to
vote in Lexington.”’

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 23, 1992

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Alumni Weekend Already?

A custodian polishes Old George one last time before he is lifted
to his pedestal above Washington Hall April 13. Earlier this year,
the university said Old George would be placed back on his
perch Alumni Weekend. The statue, which was removed for

repairs two years ago, returns

a new man, literally. The statue

 

that stands shrouded on the cupola pending a rededication next
month is actually a bronze replica of the original wooden statue
carved 150 years ago by Mathew Kahle. The original statue, fully
restored by Alabama sculptor Branko Medenica, is on display in
the University Library's Boatwright Room.

Photo by Patrick Hinley, W&L

 

 

 

   

Summer
Rush
curtailed

 

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

 

Law School Dean Randall Bezanson offers a
champagne toast to former Supreme Court

Photo by Claudia Schwab, The News-Gazerte
Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. at the opening of
the Powell Collection earlier this month.

Powell honored at dedication

 

By JOSHUA MANNING
Phi Managing Editor

On a snowy Saturday morning three weeks ago,
U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist
rose to deliver the keynote address at a law forum in
the Lenfest Center. But all eyes seemed to be on the
guest of honor, former Justice and W&L alumus Lewis
F, Powell Jr.

The forum, discussing contemporary challenges to
judging, was part of a symposium held to mark the
dedication of the Powell Collection annex to Lewis
Hall.

Powell, who served on the Supreme Court for 15
years, donated the archives of his distinguished 55-year
legal career in 1990.

‘Powell recognized that judging was not just a
process, but a deliberative process,’’ Rehnquist said.
“*He wrote more than his share of opinions, but never
lost sight of the fact that the court should function as a
body.”’

In his speech, Rehnquist attacked the common
belief that judges make up their minds before hearing
a case.

‘Judges read, listen and discuss — then they
form an opinion and vote,’’ Rehnquist said. ‘*And
votes are not always the same as their original indica-

tions; they change throughout the process.”’

Above all, courts need to give clear legal opin-
ions, unaffected by outside political pressures, Rehn-
quist said, and Powell understood this better than most.

Another panelist, U.S. Court of Appeals Justice J.
Harvie Wilkinson, served as Powell’s assistant in the
early ’70s.

He said Powell’s greatest virtue was to resist the
trivialization and polarization of the judicial process. In
this way Powell worked to overcome one of the
greatest challenges to judging today, Wilkinson said.

‘*Powell wanted to ease rather than exacerbate
conflicts on the bench,’’ Wilkinson said. ‘‘He had the
nicest way of telling you that you’re wrong.”’

Wilkinson said Powell called on lawyers and
judges to seek common ground and find solutions
rather than vie for dominance.

Powell, who sat quietly but smiling in the fourth
row of the Keller Auditorium during the forum, re-
ceived a standing ovation at the podium during the
formal dedication of the Powell Collection that after-
noon.

‘*T’ve witnessed and happily taken part in some
of the vast changes that have taken place in this great
country,’’ Powell said. ‘‘Standing here today, I have
more feeling, appreciation and affection than I can
possibly express.”

 

 

WASHINGTON

AND
KEE

 

Photo by Patrick Hinley, W&L
Former Supreme Court Justice and Washington and Lee
Alumnus Lewis F. Powell Jr. takes the podium at the festivities
marking the opening of the Law School’s new Powell Collection.
Chief Justice William Rehnquist looks on.

 

 

 

 

ABC ups patrols at Goshen

 

By KATIE YDEL
Phi Staff Reporter

 

State officials have a warning
for students who want to drink while
visiting Goshen or Panther Falls this
spring: Don’t do it unless you’re pre-
pared to get caught.

National Forest Service official
Jack Bowen said that Alcohol Bever-
age Control and NFS officers will
target students drinking and camping
illegally at the popular spots.

‘Many young people don’t
know how to behave themselves,”’
Bowen said.

Bowen said that in the past
there have been many incidents at
these areas involving students from
Washington and Lee and nearby col-
leges,

ABC agent R.D. Stevens said
the Board will work with the Forest
Service and the Sheriff’s office to try
to keep these areas alcohol-free.

Stevens said that although this
action is not aimed solely at students,
they have been a big part of the prob-
lem in the past.

Panther Falls, in the National
Forest, is located near Lynchburg on
the Pedlar River. Although alcohol is
allowed in most of the National For-
est for those over 21, it is not permit-
ted in the Panther Falls area under
any circumstances.

According to Bowen, this regu-
lation was made about two years ago

 

er

 

  

 

 

Alcohol and Goshen will not be companions this spring. Officials are
cracking down on alcohol consumption in the area in order to
promote a family atmosphere and reduce accidents.

by the Forest Supervisor. Bowen said
the area was notorious for being a
party place.

“*We’re trying to make it a
decent place for a person to go and
take their family,’’ Bowen said.

There have also been several
accidental deaths in the area.

Last summer Larkin Smith, a
James Madison University student,
dove into the river at Panther Falls
and hit her head on a rock. She broke
her neck on impact and died four
days later.

Although Smith’s death was not

a result of drinking, Bowen said that
there have been alcohol related deaths
in the past.

There is also a regulation at
Panther Falls prohibiting camping
within 150 feet of the water. The
regulation was enacted to prevent
campers from accidentally polluting
the river, which provides drinking
water for the city of Lynchburg.

People caught drinking beer at
Goshen or Panther Falls can be cited
for either minor in possession or
drinking in public. Those caught
camping too close can be fined.

 

Heart Healthy
Week

Monday
Jump Rope for Heart
outside Doremus Gym.

Tuesday
7:30 - 10:30 a.m. Blood Pres-
sure and Cholestorol
Checks in the dining hall.
(Do not eat 12 hours be
fore cholesterol checks.)

Thursday
7 p.m, Panel discussion on
healthy eating in the Uni-
versity Center gameroom.

Friday
11 a.m. - noon Chef William
King and Food Service
Director Gerald Darrell
answer questions outside
the Co-op.

noon - 1 p.m. King and Darrell
answer questions outside
the dining hall,

Tuesday - Friday
noon - 1 p.m, “Lunch and
Learn” programs in Uni-
versity Center, room 113.
Bring a bag lunch.

Heart Healthy Specials all week
in the GHQ, Co-op and dining
hall.

 

 

 

Fraternities can no_ longer
sponsor summer parties to rush
incoming freshmen.

At its March 31 meeting, the
Interfraternity Council voted 11-3 to
abolish house-sponsored summer rush
parties, but said open contact rules
are still in effect during the summer.

IFC President Greg Hicks also
said fraternities will still receive the
names and addresses of incoming
freshmen and can send rush material
during the summer.

Hicks told IFC members he
thought the university would probably
have stopped giving freshmen
addresses to houses if summer parties
were not abolished.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
said that although sun:mer rush
parties were unpopular arnong the
faculty, there was never a threat of
not giving the freshman lists to
fraternities.

‘*The faculty would rather that
a freshman’s first W&L experience
would have been coming to
Lexington and meeting with
professors, not going to fraternity
parties in the summer,’’ Atkins said.
‘*But there was never any threat of
blackmail.”

Atkins said he believed the IFC
abolished the parties because ‘‘it
wasn’t a manageable _ situation.
There’s no way to exercise any kind
of jurisdiction.”’

Burke finally wins in
second run-off election

 

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Richard Burke won the election
for senior class president March 30
after finishing in a tie with Betsy
Kleiner in the first run-off on March
26.

Less than half as many votes
were cast in the first run-off, which
ended in a 123-123 tie, as in, the
initial election. The Voting Regula-
tions Board then scheduled a second
run-off for March 30, the Monday
after Fancy Dress.

Burke, who was elected class
president for the fourth time, received
121 votes to Kleiner’s 108.

According to VRB Chairman
Ward Maedgen, the ballots from the
first run-off were counted at least four
times to ensure that there was a tie.

““Once we realized there was a
tie, we knew there had to be another
run-off,’’ Maedgen said.

Maedgen said he then told Ex-
ecutive Committee President Giles
Perkins about the tie and that Perkins
agreed that there should be another
run-off.

Burke said he was dissatisfied
with the process as a whole.

“IT was amazed they held the
elections near Fancy Dress week-
end,”’ Burke said. ‘‘The timing of
both votes was bad. It wasn’t fair to

Betsy or myself.”’

Neither candidate campaigned
before the second run-off and Burke
and Kleiner both believe that most
people didn’t know about the run-
offs.

‘*A lot of my fraternity brothers
didn’t vote on Thursday (the first run-
off) because they didn’t know there
was a run-off,”’ said Burke.

Kleiner
onic i226
thought the
entire situation
with the run-
offs was unusu-
al, but com-
mended the
VRB’s efforts.

fF he
longer you drag
things out the
less interested Burke
people are,’’ Kleiner said. ‘‘I think
the VRB did a really good job with a
weird situation.”’

Burke, however, was more dis-
satisfied with the process and the
timing.

Burke said he was satisfied with
the results of the election but was
concerned by his slim margin of vic-
tory.

 

 

 

 

 

‘Betsy did really well,’’ he
said. ‘‘I wish people who are dissatis-
fied would come and talk to me.”’
The Ring-tum Phi, April 23, 1992

Golf continues roll

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee golf
team continued its roll through the
regular season in impressive fashion
last week, winning a dual match and
two tournaments.

The win achieved a milestone
for their long-time coach and
increased the team’s chances for a
third straight trip to the NCAA
Championship meet.

The Generals beat Shenandoah
by over 70 strokes and then won the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference-
Virginia Wesleyan Invitational and
the Shipbuilder’s Invitational, both by
convincing margins.

Senior Clay Thomas was the
medalist in each of the three meets,
shooting a 73 against Shenandoah and
in the Shipbuilder’s Invitational, and
a 72 in the ODAC-VWC meet.
Thomas has shot six straight rounds
of 77 or better, and has not shot
higher than 73 in his last four
Outings.

“Clay is playing well,’’ coach
Buck Leslie said. ‘‘He was in a
slump at the beginning of the season,
but he has worked his way out of it
pretty well. In fact, this is the best

streak Clay’s had since he’s been
here."’

Fellow senior Jay McKnight
has also been playing well. McKnight
has shot seven straight sub-80 rounds
to help carry the load.

The Generals got a pleasant
surprise over break when Scott
Thompson shot back-to-back 78s
against Shenandoah and at VWC.

‘‘We moved Scott up to the
sixth spot and he contributed right
away,” said Leslie. ‘‘He picked up
our bad rounds. That helps, because
early we weren’t picking them up.
But Scott has taken care of that in the
last few meets.”’

The victory at the ODAC-
VWC meet gave Leslie his 200th
career win. He now has a career
record of 220-31-2.

‘[Getting 200 wins] is
gratifying to say the least,’’ the 18-
year Generals’ coach said.

Leslie was also happy that his
Generals improved their national
standing.

‘*We moved up to third in the
district, behind Methodist and
Greensboro, and we’ve kept our
national ranking at 14th,’’ he said.
‘*We’re in a position where we think
the NCAA will give us a long look.’’

Women’s tennis hitting
Stride for ODAC tourney

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee wo-
men’s tennis team is on fire!

The team completed another
undefeated week and upped their
overall record to 13-3. The Generals
are currently on a 10-match winning
streak. The 10th win came over
ODAC rival Guilford last Friday. The
win secured the ODAC regular season
title for the team.

The team started last week by
beating Armstrong State 5-4. They
then took on Cabrini and just blew
them off the courts, 9-0. Their third
victim was Guilford, 5-4.

The third doubles team of soph-
omore Kim Dickinson and freshman

Liz McCord went 3-0 on the week
and secured the victory over Guilford
with a hard-fought 5-7, 7-5, 6-2 win.
Freshman Cathy Gartin also
finished the week undefeated at sixth
singles, upping her record to 9-1.
Another freshman is leading the
Generals this year. Marilyn Baker is
17-2 in matches this year, and 14-1 in
dual meets. She lost her first dual
match of the year against Armstrong.

The Generals travel to Ran-
dolph-Macon Women’s College this
weekend for the ODAC tournament.
They enter the contest with a team
that has three sophomores and three
freshmen. But with the way the team
is playing, youth, or inexperience,
should play no part in the outcome.

 

 

SPORTS

 

 

Page 7

 

 

Men’s team survives road trip

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

While most of us were
soaking up rays and sipping
margaritas, the Washington and
Lee men’s tennis team was
enduring a long five-day road
trip.

In those five short days
they played three Division I
schools, last year’s Division II
champs, and one of the top
NAIA schools in the nation.
Makes you glad you were
tanning, right?

April 13: The Generals
take on the University of
Central Florida, Division I. They
lose 5-4. Robby MacNaughton
wins at second singles and the
Generals take all three doubles,
including a thriller at third
doubles. Wes Ruggles and Kelly
Vandever tum in a_ gutsy
performance, winning 5-7, 6-3,
7-6(7-4).

April 14: W&L travels to
Division I Stetson and walks
away with a 5-4 victory.
Richard Yates wins at first
singles, MacNaughton at
second, David Schweppe at fifth
and Vandever at sixth. Vandever
turns around and teams up with
Ruggles to take the deciding
third doubles match.

April 15: The Generals
earn more frequent flyer mileage
as they take a trip to Rollins,
last season’s Division II national
champions. The Generals are
handled easily, 8-1. The
highlight of the match was
impressive play of the third
doubles team of Ruggles and
Vandever, as they take the only
match for W&L.

April 16: The Generals
visit Division I Jacksonville
University. The road-warriors
end up on the short end of a 7-1
final. But the team of Ruggles
and Vandever continue to
impress. They rack up their
fourth consecutive win at third
doubles.

 

 

 

Senior Richard Yates, seen above serving
Rolex Invitational, won the first singles match at

April 17: Even on Good
Friday the Generals can’t
catch a break. They make their
final stop at North Florida, a
NAIA powerhouse. The
Generals are handed their third
straight defeat, 8-1. This time
it’s singles that supplies the
victory. Yates finishes his trip
with a 6-2, 7-6(7-2) win.

With this, the Generals are

finally able to go home.

In the

“You get much
reenforcement playing such
tough competition,’’ said head
coach Gary Franke. ‘‘We got
some great performances, third
doubles only lost once. I think
we’re ready for the ODACs,
though.”’

That’s next up for the
Generals. They are the heavy
favorites to win their eighth
straight Old Dominion Athletic

the Division | Stetson on April 14. The W&L men
left the tournament with a 5-4 win.

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Conference title. They also need
a strong showing to help them
make the Division III national
tournament.

“‘How well we do in the
ODACs and against Swarthmore
will determine if we make it,’’

said Franke. ‘‘We lost to
Wooster this year so the
Swarthmore match is very
critical.’’

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photo by Patrick Hinely, W&L

Senior Doug Brown competes in one of his final placing 18th in the 500-yard freestyle and 19th in
meets for the Generals. He closed out his career by the 1,650-yard freestyle at Nationals in March.

115 S. Main St., Lexington

 

Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture

463-2742

DRINK SAFE SPRING TERM

Vehicle For Sale

1987 Ford Bronco II. 53K, FI V-6, AT, PS, AC, OD, 30 MPG. Im-
maculate. $6,300. Neg. call 261-5016 after 5 p.m.

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5

31S. Main St., Lexington

463-3355

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ®Perfumes

Charge Accounts

e Free Delivery

 

  
   

CRUISE JOBS

ruise Lines Now Hiring. Earn
$2,000+ per month working on cruise
ships. World travel! Holiday, Sum-
merand Full-timeemployment avail-
able. For Employment Program call

    

| 1-206-545-4155 ext. C 328

 

Small house in town
for rent,
3 bedrooms. $675

Call Pat at

Vita & Associates
Realty
463-9551

 

Charles

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

 

For one it was the grand
finale.
For the other it was the first

| trip to the big show.

The end of the Washington
and Lee men’s swimming season
came with the Division III Nationals
meet four weeks ago. What makes it
newsworthy a month later is the fact

.| that the Generals were represented by

their two top swimmers this year.

Senior Doug Brown and
freshman John Rowe competed in a
combined five events at the meet in
Buffalo, New York. For Brown, the
meet marked the end of a brilliant
career. In stark contrast, the meet
marked the beginning of what could
be a brilliant career for Rowe.

You’d expect the veteran to be
calm, cool and collected, while the
rookie did the nervous pacing. It was
the exact opposite.

**T was nervous as hell,”’ said
Brown. ‘‘I was concerned about how
well I was going to do, and this was

 

 

qudiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
MONSTER OPTONICA
CwD
DEFINITIVE

KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Oyden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

W. Turner

Professor Emeritus of History

Newest book, of particular interest to area residents and
Civil War buffs:

Letters From The Stonewall Brigade

 

Ted Barclay, Liberty Hall Volunteers

Please join us —

Saturday, April 25th
12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.

 

my last meet.’’

“I was excited,’’ said Rowe.
‘Tl didn’t know what to expect with
this being my first time.’’

Brown competed in the 500-
yard and 1,650-yard freestyle events.
Unfortunately, he fell less than a
second short of his goal of all-
America status in both events. He
finished 18th in the 1,650-yard and
19th in the 500-yard; 16th place was
the cut-off for all-American. Brown
said he did his best, but he might
have tried to conserve too much
while swimming the 500-yard.

“T felt I had a lot left over
after the race,’’ said Brown. ‘‘It was
a career-best time for me, but I was
trying to conserve a little for the
1,650 and might have had more to
give.”

‘I’m not disappointed, I
moved up from my pre-race seeds,
but I might have been able to do
better.”’

Rowe competed in three
events at the meet: the 200-yard and
400-yard individual medley, and the
200-yard breaststroke, and he

11S. Randolph St.

New Cure -

+2 from the Vault

Brown and Rowe close men’s season

exceeded all expectations.

Rowe gained an honorable
mention all-America status in the
400-yard IM by placing 12th. He
finished with a time of 4:09.12. He
also finished 20th in the 200-yard
breaststroke. He said he was pleased
with his results.

“It’s a good showing for my
first try,’’ said Rowe. “I was
definitely pleased with the results.’’

Brown is the only member of
the 1991-92 team graduating. Both he
and Rowe feel that even with his
departure, next year’s team is going
to be even better.

‘“‘We’re going to miss
Doug[Brown] a lot, but I think we’re
going to be even stronger,’’ said
Rowe. ‘“‘If we work real hard we’re
going to be much stronger.”’

“I wish I had one more year
because next year’s team is going to
be solid,’’ said Brown. ‘‘This year’s
freshmen will be stronger and more
experienced, and we have a great
group of freshmen coming in next
year. Expect better results next

 

14" CD :
*9* Tape f
i

Out on Tuesday, 28th

Mon.-Thurs. 11-6, Fri.-Sat. 11-5
ee

 

 

Advertise in the Phi

 

Don’t delay,

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi

is the surest way
to all W&L students

463-8581

ask for Benji Plummer
or Whitney Swift

Call today!

 

 

 

 
 

 

This week’s scores:
Baseball: L-Lynchburg 15-3
Golf: W-Shenandoah 303-376
M. Lax: W-Limestone 15-3
W. Lax: W-Hollins 17-6
W. Tennis: W-Guilford 5-4

The King " tum Bhi wet vers eo

PO RTS Golf: ODAC tourney in Richmond

M. Lax: Ham.-Syd. Sat. 2 p.m
PAGE 8 BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK APRIL 23, 1992

Women’s lax ready {f Baseball maintains
confidence despite losses

 

 

 

 

 

S

 
 

 

 

for ODAC tourney

 

By SEAN O'ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team righted their
ship Wednesday with a convincing
17-6 victory over Hollins.

The victory came at just the
right time for the Generals. After two
tough one-goal losses, the team
needed a confidence booster before
the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament.

The team was voted 12th in the
nation just prior to a three-game road
trip in Pennsylvania. The Generals
dropped two of the three games.

They opened with an impressive
victory over Gettysburg, 12-6. But
they went on to lose two
heartbreakers.

The first was a 8-7 loss to
Division II power Lock Haven. The

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Staff Reporter

 

After a frustrating loss to a
nationally-ranked rival, the
Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team rebounded with a convincing
15-6 win over Limestone yesterday.

The Generals dominated the
Saints in every statistical category,
getting three goals from junior David
Lefkowitz and two each from seniors
Jeff Roberts and Drew Anton, junior
Wiemi Douoguih, sophomore Colin
Higgins and freshman Andy Dutton.

W&L outshot Limestone 49-
16, picked up 77 ground balls to
Limestone’s 35, won 18 of 24
faceoffs and forced Limestone into 22
failed clears in 38 attempts.

The effort came after head
coach Jim Stagnitta turned up the
intensity level in practice after eighth-
ranked Washington College scored
the last six goals of the game to down
the Generals 16-10 on Saturday.

““We played poorly Saturday,’’
Stagnitta said, ‘‘so we got after the
players a bit in practice, and they
responded.’

The Generals led 8-1 at the
half against Limestone, but the Saints
scored five third-quarter goals to get
back in the game at 9-6 at the end of
three quarters. Lefkowitz answered
with two straight goals, and the
Generals ran off the last six goals of
the game.

““We didn’t shoot well, and
that kept the game close,” said
Stagnitta. ‘‘We banged them around
pretty well and did what we wanted
10."

Limestone goalie Brian Shaver
made 21 saves to keep the Saints
close.

Against Washington College,
the Generals jumped out to a 3-1 lead
before the Shoremen took a 9-6 lead
in third quarter. W&L rallied behind

second was another one-goal loss to
Haverford, 9-8. The two losses
dropped the Generals to 9-3 on the
season.

In the victory over Hollins
yesterday, the Generals were led by a
freshman and a_ senior. Senior
Kimberly Bishop and freshman
Nicole Ripken each scored four goals
to pace the Generals. Bishop now has
39 on the season and Ripken has 17.
Bishop is four goals away from
breaking her own school record for
goals in a single season.

The Generals enter the ODAC
tournament with a record of 10-3.
They are seeded No. 2 and received a
bye in the first round. Their first
game will be a second round contest
against the winner of the
Bridgewater-Sweet Briar game. The
game will be played at Liberty Field
on Saturday at 12:30 p.m.

said Stagnitta. ‘‘We’re lucky we had
guys like Josh Levinson, Dave
Schiminger and Jeff Roberts to keep
us in the game. They out-hustled and
out-played us and just wanted it more
than we did. It was 10-10 late in the
third quarter and we weren't playing
well.”’

“On the film, it looked like
we didn’t try,’’ said Roberts. ‘‘That
hurt more than losing the game.”’

Roberts, Schiminger and
Douoguih each scored twice for the
Generals, and senior Coleman Devlin
made 17 saves.

The loss to WC was W&L’s
fifth of the season, all to ranked
teams. It also dropped the Generals to
16th in Division III.

Roberts’ second goal gave him
50 points on the season, making him
only the fifth player in school history
to record back-to-back 50 point
seasons. Roberts has 55 points (31
goals and 24 assists) on the season.

While Roberts has been
consistent all year, the Generals have
gotten strong performances recently
from Lefkowitz and junior Derek
Hutton, a face-off and defensive
specialist.

“Lefkowitz is starting to
realize that he can’t run with the ball,
that he has to be an off-the-ball
player,’’ said Stagnitta, ‘‘and he’s
Starting to stick it in the net.’’

Lefkowitz has four goals in
the last two games and has 13 goals
on the season. Hutton has 18 ground
balls in the last two games and won
five of the seven faceoffs he took
against Limestone.

“‘Hutton, along’ with
[freshman] Ty Powers, is starting to
come around,”’ said Stagnitta. ‘‘He’s
had a couple of great games in a row,
and he’s one of the few players who
played hard the full 60 minutes
against Washington.”’

The Generals, 7-5 and 3-1 in

  
 
  
    

Freshman Nicole Ripken goes in one-on-one a
goalie. Ripken Is fourth on the team with 17 g

Men's lax rebounds; Roberts hits 50 points

gainst an opposing

  

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Sports Editor

It has been a baptism of fire for
the young Washington and Lee
baseball team.

Despite facing the best teams in
the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and the nation day-in-and-
day-out, the Generals have played
every game as hard as possible.

Over break the Generals faced
three of the top ODAC teams and
another tough opponent in the form of
St. Mary’s (Md.). Again the Generals
gave it their best, but could only
manage to salvage a 1-6 record.

“‘We’re hanging in there,’’ said
head coach Jeff Stickley. ‘‘I can see
us getting better with each game. A
win always helps that, but the guys
are in a good frame of mind.”’

The Generals began their break
with a doubleheader against ODAC
power Guilford. The Generals led in
both games but couldn’t hold them
and they lost both, 8-4, 10-8.

“‘We had a chance to win both
those games,”’ said Stickley. ‘‘We
just couldn’t hold it at the end.’’

The Generals got to take on one
of the top two teams in the ODAC
next. Lynchburg paid a visit to Smith
Field and left with 15-3 win. Howev-
er, the score is somewhat misleading.
At the end of five innings the Gener-
als were only down 5-3. But Lynch-
burg exploded for two in the sixth,
four in the seventh and four in the
eighth to round out their scoring.

 

_ | Even with the collapse in the late

innings, the Generals looked good.

W&L then traveled to Eastern
Mennonite College for another dou-
bleheader. EMC dominated the open-
er winning 5-1. But the second game
typified the Generals season.

At the end of four innings, the
Generals only trailed 7-4 and they
looked like they were going to make
this one count. But they ran out of

gas at the end, being shutout the last
three innings and giving up a final
three runs in the bottom of the fifth.
They lost 10-4.

Generals fans were able to cheer
a victory against St. Mary’s (Md.).
The Generals took the opening game
of their third doubleheader in four
games, 2-1. Toby McCoy pitched a
complete game allowing only one run
on three hits. Duane Van Arsdale and
Brian Harper drove in the two runs as
the Generals snapped an 11-game
losing streak.

However, St. Mary’s came back
and took the night cap 9-8. The Gen-
erals made a furious comeback in the
last two innings but fell one run short.

The loss dropped the Generals
to 4-17-0, 1-110 in the ODAC. De-
spite the record, Stickley sees his
team improving.

““We were in every game last
week. The young players are getting
more experience and they’re getting
better. As long as we keep improving
and giving ourselves chances to win,
we'll be alright.”

The Generals challenged Lynch-
burg again yesterday and it was under
some extraordinary circumstances.

Starting pitcher TJ. Daly was
involved in the accident on Interstate
64. After his accident he helped pull
people from cars until rescuers ar-
rived.

Whether it matters or not, the
Generals lost to Lynchburg 5-1. Daly
pitched seven innings allowing only
six hits, but giving up all five runs.

The Generals scored their only
run in the top of the first, but allowed
five runs in the bottom of the third,
and that was all she wrote.

The Generals have a make-up
game against Hampden-Sydney today
and then they play a doubleheader
against Virginia Wesleyan on Satur-
day to end their season.

 

Sophomore Scott Covey
posted the fastest ODAC time in
the 400-meter hurdles at the
Catholic Invitational. Covey ran
the race in 56.1 seconds.

Covey also finished fourth in
the 100-meter high hurdles, and he
ran legs on the 400-meter relay
and the 1,600-meter relay teams.

Senior Charles Edwards
finished second in the 5,000-meter
run, and junior Bo Hannah finished
third.

On the women’s side,
freshman Sarah Gilbert led the
Generals by winning the long jump
and the triple jump. Gilbert also
ran one of the legs on the 4 x 100
relay team that finished fourth.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 

Saturday, the women’s
lacrosse team competes in the
second round of their ODAC
tournament against the winner of
the Bridgewater-Sweet Briar
contest.

The men close out their
ODAC regular season with a game
against Hampden-Sydney at
Wilson Field.

The men’s and women’s
tennis teams will compete in their
ODAC tournaments. Both are the
heavy favorites to win them.

_. The golf team travels to
Richmond for their ODAC
tournament. The two-day contest

 

 

will take place on Monday, April

goals from Higgins, junior Dave the Old Dominion Athletic Both the men and Women 27 and Tuesday, April 28.

Schiminger, Douoguih and Roberts to Conference, will look to ensure theit Photo by Patrick Hinely, W&L = ores at on ene
tie the game at 10-10, but Jason Paige third straight winning season or Senior Jeff Roberts goes on the attack against a Washington College ee ;
scored three of his five goals to help Saturday against Hampden-Sydney defender. Roberts Seduuee only the fifth General to eaneed woubeae: Championships this weekend at

the Shoremen pull away. The Generals have beaten thei back 50 point seasons. Through 11 games Roberts had 29 goals and | L¥"chburg College.
“‘We played very poorly,’’ ODAC rival twice in a row. 21 assists. a ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aldara ci cat nn ene ae

: oe 5 Party Pics Photographer

3 3 four-bedroom houses : § Storage bins i Wanted

: within city limits at$800, : # : i No Experience Necessary

; | available ' O O f UC Transportation Desired

; 1 four-bedroom house : on Rt. 60 i 1-800-235-5101

: within county at$800. 3

: : i Vita & Associates ' 7 °

7 q Pi Beta P FOR RENT

: Mead Associates : i Realty i eta L Two summer houses for rent. Twenty-two acre country location
: 463-7168 : fi 463-9551 i within N.E. city limits, on 200 ft. cliff fronting Maury River. 20 min.
: : i ' walk to W&L or 5 min. drive. Dean Paul Ganas, 3-1557 (recorder)
Neccccccccccccsccccccccccccccod MANN MEDAN REN MEN GED Gm mm mun am am omni leave your p.o. address, for brochure.

 

 

 

K&W Office Equipment

American Red Cross Blood Drive
with the Bloodmobile.

 

 

 

 

 

Friday, April 24th, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
In Doremus Gym.

 

Sponsored by ‘The Lodge.”

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

"20% Discount on all
non-sale Items to students”

 

Wanted:
Representatives to sell Colorado trips.
Earn vacations/commissions.

(703) 463-1620 Biking, rafting, paragliding, more.

11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24480

VISA, MC, AMEX Call Monkey Business 1-800-484-9533

Code 1472.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
