 

Ohe

THE UPR!

WASHINGTON & LUBE LAMIVERC
LEXINGTON, VA. 2480

Rin

MAR 6 199

 

-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 20

Panhel
gets
in SAC

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee faculty
gave the Panhellenic Council a vote
on the Student Affairs Committee
Monday night but prevented students
from getting majority control of the
committee by adding another faculty
member.

Previously, the PHC president
was a non-voting member of SAC. A
sixth faculty member will be added to
the committee in order to maintain a
balance between student and faculty
votes,

“‘Our goal was to get Panhel on
SAC, with or without another faculty
member,’’ said Dean of Students
David Howison.

Howison said SAC had recom-
mended that the PHC president get a
vote without adding an another facul-
ty member, a proposal that would
have given students a 6-5 majority on
the committee.

The faculty amended SAC’s
proposal to include the additional
faculty member.

History Professor Holt Merchant
said he proposed the amendment in
order to keep SAC balanced.

Merchant said that although the
relationship between the administra-
tion and students has improved over
the last several years, the faculty
should not relinquish control of SAC.

““SAC was not a fun place a
few years ago,’’ Merchant said. ‘‘I
can’t say that some issue won’t come
up ... to divide faculty and students.’’

Howison said he would have
preferred a student majority on SAC
because the committee reports to the
faculty on student life.

Howison said the committee
thought a student majority would
create a positive image for SAC.

The faculty has the final author-
ity to determine SAC’s membership,
Howison said, regardless of its own
recommendations.

“It was ultimately the faculty’s
decision, and we will support them.
We're happy with the way it worked
out,’’ Howison said.

The new faculty member will be
elected at the faculty meeting in April
and will have a seat on SAC by
spring term, according to Professor of
Politics Lewis John.

John said that the faculty has
not decided _—_ who will be the new
SAC member.

 

Two students hurt in Domino’

From Staff Reports

 

Two Washington and Lee stu-
dents, a Lexington firefighter and
three restaurant employees were treat-
ed at Stonewall Jackson Hospital last
night after chloramine gas was re-
leased into the Domino’s Pizza on
South Jefferson Street.

Sophomores Maura McMahon
and Wendy Neel suffered from respi-
ratory irritation after inhaling the gas
and were released after emergency
room treatment, a hospital spokesman
said. The two women live in an apart-
ment above Domino’s.

Firefighter Trent Roberts said
Domino’s employees created the
chloramine gas about 8:20 p.m. Thur-
sday when they mixed ammonia and
chlorine bleach for cleaning. The
employees became ill after breathing

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

deleg

D-Day nears

Democrats’ eyes turn toward W&L

 

Trevor Norris, Rick Barksdale and Craig Lang build a model plane for the lowa state
ation’s Mock Convention Parade float yesterday. The float will depict the plane crash
that killed rock singers Buddy Holly, Richie Valens and The Big Bopper.

Photos by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

By SUMMER BROWN
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Chairman John Donaldson said.

picking a winner will be difficult.

FULL
MOCK
CONVENTION

ore y\e) =

Section B

 

 

Win Mock Convention beginning Friday, organizers are
working quickly to tie up loose ends.
‘I would call it a controlled chaos,” MC Administrative

‘‘We are now making the shift from planning to execution,”’
Donaldson said. ‘“Three years has come down to three days.”’

Political Chairman Jamie Tucker said that individual state re-
search has gone well, but because there is no majority candidate,

‘‘We’ve got all the pieces, we just have to put them together,”’
:, Tucker said. ‘‘With every [primary]
election we get more clues.

time, but I just deal with anxiety
until then,’’ Tucker said.

Kalmbach said the momentum has
started.

float and look forward to the pa-
rade,’’ Kalmbach said.

John Layman said his delegation is
“*kind of panicking.’’

finished,’” Layman said.
paint just
enough.”’

‘Everybody will have a good

Kentucky Co-Chairman John

“‘We got an early start on the

Wisconsin State Chairman

 

‘‘We’re trying to get the float
‘ ‘The

doesn’t dry quick

 

Workers adorn Washington Hail
with red, white and blue flourish in
preparation for the big event.

 

 

 

; oa j U

Photo by Francesca Kefalas, The Ring-tum Phi

City firefighters attempt to clean up a chemical spill at Domino’s.

the gas and called the Lexington Fire
Department and Emergency Medical
Service.

According to the Blue Ridge
Poison Control Center, inhaling chlo-
ramine gas causes lung irritation, but
temporary exposure does not usually

Viruses infect computers;
experts say W&L is clean

 

From University Computing

Computer virus detection and
disinfection programs have not yet
found here any of the viruses sweep-
ing the nation, including the ‘Michel-
angelo’ virus experts expect to do its
damage on March 6, the birthday of
the namesake artist.

Michelangelo is a ‘‘boot-sector’’
virus, meaning it infects the part of a
disk where start-up instructions are
stored. It enters a computer when the
computer starts up with an infected
disk in the drive, and it can infect a
computer’s hard drive, replicating
from there onto other disks, Michel-
angelo affects IBMs and compatibles.

Though University Computing
staff have not found any viral infec-
tions in the W&L computer system,
they recommend users take precau-
tions against viruses.

The best precaution is to backup

all programs and data.

Users can also run anti-viral
programs, available for university PCs
from University Computing, and from
retail stores.

A precaution against programs
like Michelangelo is to use the
*‘date’’ command to circumvent the
virus’ trigger date. For example, to
avoid a March 6 activation, change
the date on March 5 to March 7, and
on March 7 correct the date.

Network computers receive their
date from the network, and Ruley
said the threat of infection is not
serious enough to warrant changing
the network date.

Other viruses currently
threatening U.S. MS-DOS users are
the ‘‘Friday the 13th’’ virus set to
activate March 13, and the Maltese
Amoeba virus, or Irish Virus, intro-
duced to the United States from Ire-
land and set to activate March 15.

result in serious lung damage.
Firefighters dumped the ammo-
nia-bleach mixture onto Jefferson
Street and diluted it with water. They
also evacuated the Domino’s building
until the gases escaped.
Jefferson Street was temporarily

  

s accident -

blocked during the chemical clean-up.
The Emergency Medical Service
treated one Domino’s employee at the
scene and took three other employees
to the hospital.

Most of the firefighters left the

“building, but retumed about 11:15

p.m. when a firefighter inspecting the
restaurant became sick and also had
to be treated at Stonewall Jackson
Hospital. Fire Chief Kenneth Hall
said his crew called the Virginia De-
partment of Emergency Services to
help remove the remaining chemicals.

Hall said th. upstairs apartment
was apparently free from chloramine
gas last night. But, Hall said, all the
Domino’s food supplies in the build-
ing might have to be destroyed.

“‘We may not let them salvage
anything,’” Hall said. ‘‘They may
have to take a total loss.”’

MARCH 5, 1992

CRC proposes
conduct creed

 

By GREG PATTERSON
Phi Staff Reporter

 

onianin ae Committee
using racist outlines plan

language could |for a ‘Principle

violate university | Of Civility and
rules and result |Decency’ to

in expulsion |reform student
under a policy |attitudes

proposed by the
Confidential Review Committee.

The proposed plan, made public
this week after a six-month self-eval-
uation by the CRC, also says W&L
isn’t bound by the First Amendment
and may legally suppress student
speech.

‘*While our discussion is appro-
priately informed by the Constitution-
al and legal requirements placed on
government regulation of speech, we
are not bound by such constraints,”’
the 46-page document states.

The report includes a broad
statement of conduct standards that
the CRC says should be the basis for
complaints. It also includes sharp
criticism of its own recommendations
by two CRC members.

The CRC report recommends
the panel continue to hear cases in-
volving sexual misconduct and sexu-
al, racial, ethnic and religious harass-
ment and discrimination, It allows for
any case to be tried by the Student
Conduct Committee instead of the
CRC if the accuser and the accused
agree.

The self-evaluation also propos-
es that student representatives be
given a 4-3 majority over faculty on
the CRC, and that the students be
appointed by the Executive Commit-
tee. The current makeup is four facul-
ty members and three students, with
the students appointed by the univer-
sity president.

The basis for all complaints
would be a ‘‘Principle of Civility and

Decency,’ described in the report as

‘*a general policy, not a detailed code
of conduct.’’

The Principle does not outline
exactly what would be considered a
violation, but instead states that its
basic tenet is mutual respect.

“Students, faculty, administra-
tors, guests and townspeople will not
be subjected to disrespectful or im-
proper conduct on the part of mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee com-
munity,’’ according to the introduc-
tion to the Principle.

The Principle does give sugges-
tions as to what could be considered
a violation. Examples include using a
position such as dorm counsellor to
force someone to have sex, having
sex with someone while he is drunk,
making fun of someone for being
“‘awkward or unattractive ’’ and dis-
rupting the speech of a person whose
political views differ from one’s own.

The Principle states that prose-
cuting students for such acts would
not be a violation of their First Ame-
ndment right to freedom of speech
because W&L is a private school
rather than a state university.

The report proposes that both
the accused and the accuser have
student advocates who may question
witnesses during hearings. No such
advocates are currently used. Five of
the seven CRC votes will still be
needed to convict or sentence a stu-
dent.

Two of the appendices to the
report offer dissenting opinions by
CRC members Allan Ides, professor
of law, and third-year law student and
EC Rep. Jeffery Kelsey.

Ides’ statement criticizes the
report as ‘‘a proposal that is marked
by a stunning lack of definition.’’ He
states that while the Principle seems
to apply to all students equally, it is
intended only for the protection of
minorities.

“It insults women and minori-
ties by telling the they are not capable
of survival in a neutral system; they
don’t have what it takes,’ Ides
writes.

Ides also says the policy is con-
trary to W&L’s educational objective.

““‘We are educating young peo-
ple who live both private and public
lives in a democratic society, a cen-
tral tenet of which is freedom of
speech. The message of any campaign
to curtail offensive speech, no matter
how well intentioned, is antithetical to
that society.’’

On Delt, SAC made
Its Own decision

 

By THOMAS EISENHAUER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

The Student Affairs Commit-
tee’s reduction of Delta Tau Delta’s
penalty for its December house-trash-
ing was not the same reduction rec-
ommended by university President
John Wilson.

In response to Delt’s appeal of
its five-year suspension, Wilson rec-
ommended on Feb, 24 that the penal-
ty be reduced to a one-year suspen-
sion, ending Jan. 1, 1993, plus four
years of ‘‘critical probation,”’

The next day SAC considered
Wilson’s recommendation and voted
7-3 to reduce its Jan. 20 penalty to a
suspension ending July 1, 1993, and
three years of critical probation. SAC
also stipulated that the Interfraternity
Council president would participate in
the Delt alumni committee’s review
of current chapter members.

SAC member Peebles Harrison
said Wilson ‘‘clarified some of the

facts for us.”’

Excutive Committee President
Giles Perkins agreed, ‘‘President
Wilson only made a recommendation.
The decision was ours.”’

Wilson found that the vandalism
was less extensive and over a shorter
time period than the 10 weeks SAC
originally believed, Dean of Students
David Howison said.

Perkins said, ‘‘The president’s
version had fewer individuals invol-
ved and less damage. If we'd had that
information before, I think we wou-
Id’ve come to about the same thing.’’

Howison said Delt’s presenta-
tion at the hearing was not ‘‘purpose-
fully vague,’’ but didn’t present a
detailed picture of the destruction.

Perkins agreed, ‘‘My opinion is
they were extremely intimidated by
the hearing process. I still don’t know
what exactly happened. The damage
was there, and they didn’t give me
personally a pattern of what happened
so I had to go on what I saw.’

 

On Republican side, Bush battles populists

 

By AMANDA STEWART
Special to The Ring-tum Phi

 

With U.S. President George Bush basing his
re-election campaign on the status-quo, the can-
didacies of conservative commentator Patrick
Buchanan, and to a lesser extent, David Duke,
have been touted as attempts to return the Repub-
lican Party platform to the control of the party’s

NEWS

conservatives. A more
thorough review of the
Republican  presiden-
tial candidates reveals
the true populist nature
of the Buchanan and
Duke campaigns.

Buchanan is a great supporter of isolationist
and nativist policies. Buchanan seeks the repeal
of affirmative action legislation, a stance which
sits well with both conservatives and blue-collar
workers. With his call for ‘‘fair trade,
also reaches out to the industrial magnates and
workers. This self-proclaimed trade hawk wants
nationalistic economic policies aimed at keeping
U.S. aid from foreign countries as well as a more

 

ANALYSIS

 

*’ Buchanan

cultural heterogeneity.

hard-line stance with trading partners who fail to
provide open markets for U.S. goods. Buchanan
also advocates strong anti-immigration legislation,
beefing up border security to protect American
workers from unfair labor competition, and
protecting American society from unwanted

David Duke takes all of these populist
positions one step further. The power of Duke’s
message lies in his past and present persona. The
former Klansman and author has based his cam-
paign on anti-affirmative action policies and the
need for anti-immigration legislation. Duke also
represents himself as an “‘outsider’’ of national
politics and has gained anti-establishment votes.

It is not surprising that this populist rhetoric
is doing well in a nation afflicted with recession,
especially when the incumbent Republican pres-
ident is running on the continuation of present
policies, Bush, a moderate, seems to be regaining
much of the conservative support he lost in the
early days of Buchanan’s campaign. Not only are
conservatives acting pragmatically, but there
seems to be a growing disenchantment with this
new populism among free market Republicans.

 

Despite the contrasts between Bush and his
challengers, all three agree on some basic poli-
cies. All of the Republican candidates maintain
that it is Congress which has hamstrung ‘‘free-
market’’ economic reforms. They also continue to
call for a strong defense, though all realize the
efficacy in cutting the defense budget. On social
issues the Republican candidates have reaffirmed
the 1988 platform of choice in public education,
school prayer, and a desire to stop abortion.

Amanda Stewart is the president of the
W&L chapter of College Republicans.

 

 
 

von The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1992

Gallery site not.
right for W&L

My VIEW

 

 

OPINION

AL ABC AGENTS pesam Come TRWE.

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

Yes, Virginia,

 

Mock -CON *

 

 

Fees2e you ALCOHOLIC scum! youes UNnEe
ARDEST FOR PORBSSION AND PUBLIC DQUNKENNESS.

 

GO AHeAdS , MALE MY bAMY-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wa&L is PC too

You are now entering Washington and Lee. Please leave
your Constitutional rights at the border. You may pick them up
when you leave.

Following a resounding endorsement of free speech in the
Confidential Review Committee’s self-review, published just
this week, the committee proceeds to explain why free speech
may be forbidden at W&L. The committee has the audacity to
claim that the principle of freedom is what gives the university
the right to suppress speech:

““[W]e are free as a private university to meet our
educational mission in ways not open to state schools, and...
historically we have exercised that freedom.”’

Their proposal, misleadingly titled the ‘‘Principle of Civility
and Decency,”’ is nothing more than a second, multi-sanction
Honor System under administration control. Moreover, the
Principle flies in the face of free speech and the concept of the
university as a marketplace of ideas.

To borrow one of the CRC’s own examples, students may
under the Principle be expelled for ‘‘prolonged: public ridicule
of an individual because one finds him to be awkward or unat-
tractive.’’ So those of you with ugly roommates, pretend you
don’t notice, and for God’s sake don’t tell anyone.

The CRC admits their policy is ‘‘broad’’ and ‘‘sweeping.”’
Any speech or action that could be construed as disrespectful,
by any W&L student to anyone, townsperson, professor or
another student, warrants a CRC hearing and puts the student
in danger of expulsion. That’s all there is to it.

The Principle purports to encompass all members of the
W&L community, but the CRC may only handle student offen-
ders. Though the revised CRC would consist of four Executive
Committee-appointed students and three non-students, appeals
would go to the dean of students, the senior faculty member on
the Student Affairs Committee, and the Executive Committee
president. At no time does the accused have the right to an
open hearing, not even in cases unrelated to sexual misconduct.

The CRC’s rationale for this re-structuring is an affront to
student dignity. The committee claims on one page of its study
to exist ‘‘for the benefit of women and minority students,’’
while claiming on another page that it ‘‘operates on behalf of
all members of the university community.’’ We agree with Law
Professor Alan Ides, who wrote a criticism of the CRC self-
review.

The Principle ‘‘insults women and minorities by telling them
they are not capable of survival in a neutral system; they don’t
have what it takes,’’ Ides says. ‘‘It tells men, particularly white
men, that they are incapable of seeing beyond their sex and
race. The more often this message is emphasized the more
often it will be acted upon.”

We join Professor Ides in calling on the Student. Affairs
Committee to outrightly reject this proposal.

Moreover, we renew our call to the Executive Committee
for a clarification of the White Book wherein dishonorable
conduct might be an honor violation. It is not unreasonable to
expect that W&L students act civilly and decently. But
questions of such conduct should be handled by a student com-
mittee with an open appeals process. The structure for this is
already set up in the EC, and would eliminate the necessity for
any CRC at all.

One final note of reproach to the Student Conduct
Committee for its reference, in a letter to CRC Chairman Joan
Shaughnessy, to the CRC self-evaluation as ‘‘an unenviable
task.’ To the contrary, self-evaluation is a task every
superfluous governmental organization craves.

Thank you for visiting Washington and Lee. You may pick
up your Constitutional rights at the border. Women, minorities,
and especially ugly people, be careful out there.

Quote of the week

Look, I’ve tried to make this system as idiot-proof as I can,
but I'll be out there at Brubaker Field to make sure y'all don’t
screw it up.

— Mock Convention Float Chairman and _ Sensitivity
Coordinator Gabrey Croft, explaining, as only she can, the
intricate process of float construction.

 

 

 

 

More on the lighter side

of MC ’92: the parade

 

LET IT RIDE

By Chris Swann

 

I have concluded that it is the wrong
time of the month to speak to any political
secretary in Texas. Never in my life have I
attempted to speak with a more stressed-out
group of individuals, except perhaps a group
of female friends one week before Fancy
Dress. (By the way guys, FD is Mar. 27-28,
in case you've forgotten. Not addressed to
you, ladies, who have probably had the date
fixed on your calendars for the past month.)

Now that I’ve given up on the politi-
cians and analysts in Texas, I’ve taken to
calling Delta Airlines. See, the Texas float
planned to have ‘‘two members of the Dallas
Cowboys’ football organization’ on it for the
parade Friday. That was how I worded the
letter I faxed to some Delta rep in Wash-
ington, asking for what legalese-speaking
businessmen call ‘‘gratis transportation’’ and
I call ‘‘free tickets in exchange for free adver-
tising.’’ The two ‘‘members’’ told us they

_ would show up for an appearance fee and free

tickets. The two members were also Dallas
Cowboys cheerleaders.

Hey, come on, I couldn’t write Delta
and ask them to fly up the next best girls to
Sports Illustrated swimsuit models. According
to rumor in various business circles, certain
Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders shake more than
their pom-poms. But that’s just a rumor.

Anyway, I got a very pleasantl y-worded
refusal, probably because Delta is the only
airline left in America that’s worth a damn
and doesn’t need advertising. We tried to get
Lloyd ‘‘You’re no Jack Kennedy’’ Bentsen.
Failing that, we got all sorts of suggestions:
Tom Landry, Nolan Ryan, Lyndon Johnson’s

 

cousin... The way things are going now, we
might just exhume Sam Houston who’s buried
up the road on Route 11 and put him on the
damn float.

Texans being Texans, the delegation
plans to have the biggest and best float. If
most people I’ve talked to don’t get around to
starting theirs (they’re due today), we may
have the only one. I sometimes feel like
Boone in Animal House: ‘‘Some guys get to
ride down Main Street on a roll of toilet
paper? Big f----- deal.” But it’s impressive
that we busy college students took the time
and effort to actually rent trucks, get flatbeds
and build a float in our spare time between
ordering kegs and organizing the various
parties for Friday night. Hey, don’t give me
any of that, ‘‘Parties! Is that all you think
about?’’ I mean, would you plan to spend five
hours on the Mock Convention floor Friday
evening with your delegation if you couldn’t
dance and drink like rock stars afterwards?

This is getting to be like the real world:
perpetual ‘‘hold’’ buttons (I’m never using a
telephone again), hassling with Jim Bob out
in BV to rent a flatbed, signing waivers
allowing the company to sue if any paint is
scratched off the rented truck and organizing
a parade including some impressive political
personalities, local law-enforcement officials
and 1,600 inebriated college students. Maybe
I can get some career mileage out of this:
‘‘political analyst’’ would look great on my
much-adjusted resume. Nah, ‘‘humor column-
ist’’ still sounds better: someday a group of
Republicans will dust off old copies of The
Ring-tum Phi, read my articles, and laugh at
my stunningly-accurate portrayals of Demo-
cratic presidential candidates and in-depth
perception of the American college psyche.

Oh well, we’ll do anything for a party.

By Christopher F. Tricarick, ’95

 

I will not discuss the objections which I and, unless |
am greatly mistaken, most of my fellow students and a
considerable part of the faculty have to the proposed site of
the Watson Gallery. These objections have been adequately
explained by previous writers on these pages; their wide
prevalence has been demonstrated by the many people who
signed Mr. Chapman’s petition in October. Yet there are
some very serious implications in this choice of sites.

One of Washington and Lee’s principle assets is our
sense of community: those who teach and learn and work

=

here are united by similar concerns and ideals. We, the .

resident community, will be most affected by the gallery,
but the decision concern-
ing it has been made,
contrary to our almost
unanimous wishes, by the
Board of Trustees — a
remote power with con-

 

It is a mockery

to the very nature
of art that it be
used to destroy a
spot of natural
beauty. The
Colonnade itself
is a work of art.

from ours. This is a depar-
ture from the very nature
of community as we at

understood it.

It would, perhaps, be
ungrateful to accuse the Board of Trustees of having
disregarded our feelings; after all, it postponed its decision
for four months on account of Mr. Chapman’s petition. But
there is no evidence that it ever considered the essence of
our objections to the gallery. Three alternative locations
were successively dismissed, according to University
Communications Director Brian Shaw, because they were
not sufficiently near the Reeves Center. We do not want the
gallery near the Reeves Center; we do not want it on the
front campus! The question whether any real need exists for
a close physical proximity between the Watson gallery and
the Reeves Center — a question to which, I believe, most
of us would answer no — was never discussed.

 

~

cems entirely dissimilar ,

Washington and Lee have *

~

Concerning the gallery itself, 1 am intensely enthusias-

tic. A philistine objection to art and culture can be imputed

to very few of us, who oppose the construction of this ¢

gallery on its present site. It is a mockery to the very nature
of art that it be used to destroy a spot of natural beauty,
and, profoundly, to alter the beauty for the Colonnade —
itself an architectural work of art.

No member of the Washington and Lee community
ever forms an opinion, or makes a decision, on a matter of
vital importance to the university without first considering
the position Lee would probably have taken on that matter.
Since the appearance of our campus is largely the result of
Lee’s work repairing it after the destructions of war, we
have ample evidence of his aesthetic feelings. Lee would
not have trees planted in rows, because ‘‘nature never
plants things in rows.’’ Lee did not like the appearance of
a fence, which he said was ‘‘a blot on any lawn.’’ Can we
doubt how he would have felt about the appearance of
many buildings crowded one upon the other?

A crowded appearance is not unaesthetic in itself. No
one will complain because the buildings of the Acropolis or
of the Forum are crowded together. But though Athens and
Rome are to our eyes hallowed symbols of beauty and
civilization, they were, in their day, commercial, cosmopoli-
tan centers. The great building projects for which Pericles
and Augustus are so renowned had as much to do with
personal pride and ambition as those of Donald Trump.
This spirit has no place at Washington and Lee; it is the
farthest thing from Lee’s ideals. Our campus’s appearance
bears the indelible mark of Lee’s love of simplicity and
natural beauty, and has exerted an inestimable influence
upon our character as a community. Thus, bu‘lding the

gallery beside the Colonnade will affect a radical departure :

from the standards which through generations has remained
the nature of this institution.

 

 

LETTERS

    

assignment.

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley

Cathy Lopiccolo
Thomas Eisenhauer

Associate Editor
News Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor
Entertainment Editor
Assignment Editor
Leigh Allen
Tim Molloy

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

Decades of history
at the old theater

To the Editor:

I read with interest a recent article in The
Ring-tum Phi dealing with the University Theater.
But I do believe that Lee Kahn was not the first
to lead an organized theater group. When I
arrived here in 1960, the director was a fine
actor, director, stagehand, set- and light-designer
Dr. Cecil Jones. I, and many others, had the
privilege of working with him in the original
theater on Henry Street. In fact, there are several
of us still here in the community. Before, Dr.
Jones, I believe Carlsson Thomas (who is back in
town as a builder) worked with the theater group.

All of us who had the pleasure of working
with Dr. Jones remember such fine plays as
Enemy of the People, The Lady's Not for Burn-
ing, Boy Meets Girl, and Tartuffe. These are only
a few of the plays produced in those early years
when such a splendid theater as the Lenfest
Center for the Performing Arts was only a dream.
All of us would, I am sure, like to see the former
theater directors remembered.

Please see that this corrected. Thank you very
much. After all, ‘“The play’s the thing!”’

Yours truly,
Yvonne S. Emerson

Student demands
computer upkeep

To those in charge of university computers:

The proper maintenance of our computer
hardware is crucial for students who wish to
spend their time efficiently and productively. The
computer lab in the library works against this
reasonable goal. Often, one or two of the three
computers which operate through the laser printer
are broken. Paper is out, and, at times, printers
are as well. Quattro-Pro is only available on one
of the three computers, and, unfortunately for me
and other students wanting a professional looking
spreadsheet, the computer it is available on has
been broken for some time. Even when all three
computers are working, they are still slower in

spell check and other computer operations. Long
lines form toward the end of each term exacerbat-
ing these unacceptable problems and making
students feel rushed once they get onto a working
computer. Enough said, please fix the problems.

Sincerely,
Frank Martien, "92

Eight Minks prove
ROTC is still alive

To the Editor:

Despite the fact that ROTC has been closed
at Washington and Lee, the program is far from
defunct. There are presently 13 active cadets on
campus. This past summer, eight of the 13 at-
tended, and successfully completed, Camp Ad-
venture. The training site was Fort Lewis, Wash-
ington ... yes, on the other side of the country. If
you ask any of the cadets, they will tell you that
it was truly a unique experience. Camp Adven-
ture was the only national advanced camp in the
history of the United States. That is to say, every
third-year cadet in the U.S. went to Fort Lewis
last summer.

Camp Adventure was the training pinnacle for
those eight cadets. Now the same eight are faced
with new challenges and more demanding respon-
sibilities. Upon return to W&L, each of the senior
cadets received a mission. As a class, the mission
is to aid in the preparation of the five other
cadets for their time at the advanced camp.
However, this year there is an extra task ... to
work as an integral part of the Marshall New
Market Battalion of VMI. Once again, the eight
have been successful. The fall field training
exercise which the Minks took part in with VMI
went well and Col. Joyner’s staff commended the
Minks on the part they played.

You may be asking just who these eight
minks are. The truth be told, you see them every
day on campus, as they quietly go about being
students just as the majority of W&L does.
However, there is one significant difference ... the
eight minks go into service for the U.S. Army
very soon, In the middle part of January, each of
the eight received their duty status and branch

Bill Benson will go on active duty after
graduation as an armor officer. Kevin Carl was
branched field artillery and also received active
duty. Joe Milcoff received a regular army com-
mission for active duty in ordinance, but will
serve two to four years as an officer in air de-
fense artillery first. Toby McCoy was granted an
education delay in order to pursue studies in law
school. Toby will be commissioned as a field
artillery officer, but will serve in the judge advo-
cate general corps after completing his legal
studies. Doug Lefevre received a reserve duty
commission in ordinance. He will pursue a career
in the private sector while serving in the reserves.
Cecil Garrett also received a reserve duty com-
mission and will pursue a career in the private
sector while serving in a field artillery national
guard unit. Trevor Hildebrand was commissioned
regular army in ordinance, but will serve two to
four years as an infantry officer. Greg Evans
received a reserve duty commission in armor.
Greg is planning to serve in the national guard
while continuing his education in law school.

Congratulations to the eight Minks. Best of
luck in your assignments. God bless.

Sincerely,

Toby McCoy

Public Affairs Officer

Mink Company, Army ROTC

Library thanks
frat for help

To the Editor:

The staff of the Rockbridge Regional Library
wish to express our sincere appreciation to the
Alpha Phi Omega Service Fraternity, of Washing-
ton and Lee University, for volunteering their
time and hard work in arranging our book
shelves. There has been a noticeable difference
after they volunteered their time. Since they
organized our library collection, it has been easier
for patrons to find needed materials. Again, we
thank them for being so generous with their time.

Sincerely,
Deanie Coffey and Lynda Gordon
Circulation Staff Department

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1992

 

 

 

Page 3

 

NEWS

 

 

SPE pledges not too sexy for MTV

 

By ERIN MCKINNEY
Phi Staff Reporter

 

If you weren’t in
the dining hall Friday
morming when Mi-
chael Neal, a Sigma
Phi Epsilon pledge,
jumped up = and
screamed his good
news, you might not
be aware that the SPE
Lip Sync group is
headed for Daytona
Beach, Fla., to compete on MTV.

The five SPE members, Neal, Robert Stewart,
Drew Hammond, Phillip Harries and Kris Fegen-
bush, won second place in the W&L SAMS Rock
Alike Contest last month with their rendition of
“I’m too sexy,’’ by Right Said Fred.

The group of freshmen, also known as Stick-
man and the Catwalks, and the first place winners

Lip sync group
Stickman and the
Catwalks head to
Daytona Beach
to perform ‘I’m
too sexy’ on MTV

of the contest, Cheez Whiz, both sent their video-
taped performances to New York City to compete
in the national contest.

Stickman and the Catwalks was chosen as one
of eight national finalists, earning the opportunity
to go to Daytona Beach to compete against other
acts from across the nation while being taped by
MTV.

Why did the second-place group win over the
first place act, which performed Barry Mannilow’s
“‘Copacabana?’’ The SPE group said that Jerry
Darrell, W&L’s SAMS advisor, told them that
MTV was looking for current and popular songs.

“It was kind of ironic that the song went
number one the week after we did it,’’ said Fegen-
bush.

The group said they put a lot of hours into
the act and ‘‘fought, screamed, argued — then
worked everything out.’’

But after a while, they said, winning ceased
to matter to them.

‘We just wanted to have fun,’’ Neal said. ‘‘I

think that came across in the end.”’

‘‘Actually,’’ Hammond said, ‘‘We were
inspired by Margaret Thatcher.’’

Thatcher, the former British prime minister,
spoke at the Virginia Military Institute on Jan. 24,
the night of W&L’s Rock Alike Contest.

The national competition will take place on
Sunday, March 15 at 10 a.m. It will be taped and
aired three times the following weekend.

“It will be judged like a ‘Star Search’ kind of
thing,’’ Neal said.

The eight finalists will compete in two groups
of four. Finally, the winner from each group will
compete on MT V’s ‘‘Lip Service,’’ where they will
lip sync to random songs.

The group said they are excited and, of
course, nervous.

“But being nervous is, in a way, the best
part,’’ Stewart said.

In 1990, a group of W&L Phi Gamma Deltas
won the national contest and came home with a
new Ford Thunderbird.

 

 

‘Wait a minute, this is the C-School!’

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

Shocked students get a surprise as Politics Professor Jarvis Hall takes advantage of the spring-like
weather Tuesday, teaching his class on the Colonnade lawn.

 

 

Rare infection kills at Radford

W&L Health Center doctor warns students to take precautions

 

By BRIAN ROOT
Phi Staff Reporter

 

A rare bacterial infection. that
killed a Radford University freshman.
last week appears. in. almost
unrecognizable patterns, but does
seem to arise more often among stu-
dents, said a Washington and Lee
Student Health Center doctor.

Thomas Hamlett, 17, was admit-
ted to the Radford Community Hospi-
tal Feb. 24, complaining of severe
headaches and an upset stomach. At
the hospital, he was diagnosed as
having septicimial meningitis. Altho-
ugh he was given treatment for the
infection, Hamlett died Feb. 26.

The infection attacks the mem-
brane that surrounds the brain and the
spinal cord, and is fatal in about 10
percent of all cases.

‘*(Septicimial meningitis] is a
very difficult diagnosis,’’ Dr. Jane
Horton, W&L university physician.
‘It’s very important to discover the
bacteria early on, or the infection can
be fatal.””

Patsy Crouch, Sigma Alpha

Epsilon _ "To keep
everything with the fraternity
and the university on an even
keel — trying to satisfy all
concerned.”’

 

According to Horton, the bacte-
ria is very contagious.

“It can be passed by almost any
sort of contact,’’ she said. “!That’s
why. outbreaks most often ,, occur
among students or military recruits.”’

If the bacteria’s presence is
detected early, treatment with antibi-
otics will very likely prevent life-
threatening
illness, Horton
said.

‘“Howev-
er, the student
at Radford was
diagnosed fairly |.
quickly and
given the prop-
er treatment, Horton
and he died anyway, That just shows
that this is a very dangerous infec-
tion,’’ Horton said.

Horton said the infection is
caused by the bacteria meningococ-
cus, which can only be discovered by
a spinal tap. She said it is not current-
ly known how the bacteria enters a
person, but she speculated that some

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

 

people may be more susceptible to its
effects that others.
“It’s possible that some people
contract the bacteria, but have only a
very, mild reaction, and then: pass. it
on to:someone else,”’ she said: “‘That
would explain why it seems to appear
at random.”’

Horton said Lexington and sev-
eral other cities in this area experi-
enced an outbreak of meningitis
among elementary and middle school
students in 1986.

She said the early symptoms of
the infection resemble those of the
flu: fever, aches and pains, a head-
ache and stiff neck. The infection
may also cause a patient’s blood
pressure to drop drastically, causing
chronic drowsiness or even a coma.
Patients may also develop a skin rash
that is characteristic of the infection.

“It is very important that any-
one who develops these symptoms
seek immediate attention through the
W&L Health Center or through the
emergency room at Stonewall Jackson
Hospital,’’ Horton said.

Board
appoints
editors

By NICOLE KEELER
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

The Publications Board appoint-
ed the editors and business managers
for next year’s campus publications at
its Monday meeting.

Those appointed and their posi-
tions are as follows:

The Ring-tum Phi: juniors Tho-
mas Eisenhauer and Cathy Lopiccolo
will serve as editors; junior Whitney
Swift will be Business Manager.

Calyx: sophomore Anthony
Catalano will serve as editor and
sophomore Miriam Neel will be busi-
ness manager.

Ariel: sophomore Brian Carpen-
ter will serve as editor.

Political Review: sophomores
Cottie Miles Ryan Dennard will serve
as editors.

Journal of Science: senior Jenn-
ifer Zambone will serve as editor.

Pub Board President Rick Peltz
said it was unusual for Calyx to have
just one editor, but ‘‘in light of the
dismissal of one of the Calyx editors
earlier this year,’’ the Publications
Board felt one editor might be a
better choice.

Nineteen people applied for the
positions. Peltz said positions were
given based on the candidates’ ‘‘inter-
view, professional skill, experience,
management skill and, to some extent,
other activities.”’

Most of the new editors have
goals in mind for the upcoming year.

Political Review Editor Miles
said he wants to ‘‘relate [Politics
Professor Delos] Hughes’ Politics 265
class to contemporary issues and to
focus on political thought.”

Miles’ co-editor, Dennard, said
he would like to ‘‘take a more active
approach to getting pieces, maybe
soliciting articles.””

Ariel Editor Carpenter said his
goal is ‘‘to make Ariel the highest
quality, most diverse expression of
talent that exists on our campus.”’

 

TALKBACK

 

Ariel

Ariel, W&L’s literary magazine,
is now accepting submissions
for its upcoming spring issue.
Undergraduate, alumni, staff and
law student submissions are
welcome. The deadline is March
9. Send all submissions to Carol
Calkins’ office. The winter
edition of Ariel is coming out
on Valentine’s Day.

Job Opportunity
Applications from members of
the Class of 1992 who wish to
be considered for W&L’s alum-
ni staff associate position for the
1992-93 academic year are due
by March 11. Graduating se-
niors should submit a letter of
application and a resume to
director of alumni programs
James D. Farrar Jr. in the Alu-
mni Office. The position is
currently held by Chris Baradel,
"91, and becomes available on
July 1. A personal interview for
each applicant will be required.

Jazz Great
Eight-time Grammy Award
winner Wynton Marsalis will
perform at W&L on March 15.
Tickets will be on sale March
10 in front of the Co-op from
10 a.m. to 4 p.m and cost $7.

Cool Aid

WXJM is proud to announce
Cool Aid, a benefit concert for
the Mercy House in Harrison-
burg, VA. This concert will
feature an impromptu acting
troupe and five groovy bands
from JMU and beyond. This all-
ages show will be held on the
James Madison University cam-
pus in the Phillips Center Ball-
room. The festivities begin at 6
p.m. on March 20. Tickets will
be available at the door for $3,
or $2 with canned goods.

Snowshoe

Snowshoe Mountain Resort
announces another great inter-
collegiate ski. week for the ‘stu-
dents at Washington and Lee
University. From March 22-29,
W&L students will receive 50%
savings on both lodging and
skiing at the area’s premiere ski
resort. For more information on
how to enjoy a great spring
break in the snow, call Snow-
shoe’s reservations department
at (304) 572-5252.

GENERAL NOTES

E.C. Reps

Petitions for E.C. Representa-
tives and class officers are due
March 16. Pick up blanks out-
side Carol Calkins’ office.

Lost

A student has lost an olive-
green hunting jacket with a
khaki collar. Keys were in the
front inside pocket on a red
Mock Convention key chain. It
was last seen in duPont 109 on
Feb. 27. Please contact Baner at
463-8498 or Brant at 464-6261.
Also, a ring of great sentimental
value has been lost. It is a 1939
gold class ring with the initials
LRS on the inside of the band.
If found, please call 464-4014.

Internships
There are 20-30 paid summer
internships sponsored by the
Charles Koch Foundation. There
are also internships with the
Department of Education, Com-
merce Department, Office of the
Vice President, the National
Wildlife Federation, C-Span and
the Congress. Interested students
should see Robert Burger, work
study, C-School 108 or call 463-
8627 for more information.

Federal Work

If you are considering employ-
ment options with the Federal
Government, plan to attend this
workshop to gain’ the latest
information on Federal employ-
ment and techniques for finding
a job. It will be presented by
Office of Personnel Manage-
ment specialist Susan Holland
on March 18 at 2:00 p.m. Uni-
versity Center room 114.

Peer Counseling
Applications for next year’s
Peer Counselors may be picked
up outside Carol Calkins’ office
in the University Center. Appli-
cation deadline is March 11 at
4:30 p.m. For more information,
see Mrs. Calkins.

Get It Out

Need to get a message to the
student body? Put it in the Gen-
eral Notes. Leave a brief, typed
note in the General Notes enve-
lope outside The Ring-tum Phi
office, University Center 208.

Jameson Leonardi compiled the
General Notes.

 

 

 

FOR THE RECORD

¢ In the Jan. 30 issue of The Ring-tum Phi, a story
recycling plan to colleges’’ should have given credit for the original
implementation of the campus recycling program to members of the
Washington and Lee Outing Club instead of city officials.

titled ‘‘City takes

 

 

What is the most challenging thing

about being a house mother?

  

Beverly Coxey, Sigma Nu —
‘‘Staying cool when | want to
rip their heads off.”’

 

Anne Davis, Pi Kappa Alpha
— ‘Alcohol abuse, which is
not limited to the fraternities;
the idea that it’s the best way to
spend a party weekend.”’

 

Phi Delta

Mata McGuire,
Theta — ‘‘You’re going to get
me in trouble...’’

Gamma
Delta — ‘‘Trying to help out
but not being obvious about it.’’

Carroll Vogt, Phi

   

 

Mrs. Robert Spessard, Kappa
Sigma — ‘‘Party time.”

 

 

 
Page 4

 

DuPont Gallery is the current home of Zen painting and calligraphyby artist Stephen Addiss.

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

The exhibit will remain in the Gallery until March 20.

The job hunt stinks

 

By LAKEISHA TOWNES
Phi Staff Reporter

 

With graduation approaching
rapidly, Washington and Lee seniors
are feeling the heat of the recession
that is affecting people across the
country. Jobs are always hard to find,
but the recession is further hindering
seniors’ chances of breaking into the
job market.

“It’s really tough — the tough-
est it’s been in a long time,’’ senior
Tim Gallagher said. Although an
interviewer may state that he would
like to hire him, Gallagher said, the
interviewer often also says that the
company is hiring fewer people than
usual. This can get discouraging,
Gallagher said, but if you put forth
enough effort, you can find ‘‘some
success.”’

Gallagher is not alone in his
difficulties. Beth Talkington said she

hates the job hunt and ‘‘considers it a
chore.’’ She added, however, that she
is unsure of her specific job field,
which makes the hunt more difficult.

So how do seniors go about
finding a job? In addition to the regu-
lar application-and-interview method,
many seniors use W&L alumni, con-
tacts their parents may have and just
talking to people to get any job infor-
mation available.

On the more positive side, some
good can come out of the job hunt
process. The interview process pro-
vides a chance to express and sell
yourself and to leam more about the
company. And a new job gives you
the chance to meet new people and
work in a new environment.

These benefits, however, are
possible only if a job is found. Good
luck to all the job-hunting seniors. It
sounds like plenty of luck, plus an
economic recovery, may be needed.

 

 

W&LIFE

 

 

 

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Entertainent Editor

 

Meditate on a logically impossible question, and
then paint. That’s the general process behind Zen painting,
according to a Zen artist whose work is on display in the
duPont Gallery.

Artist and calligrapher Stephen Addiss, who gave
the Mar. 2 Glasgow Endowment Lecture, headlines an
exhibit that also displays traditional Zen art from the Shoka
Collection until March 20.

Addiss said his art is inspired by two art forms.

“My work comes from two sources --- the nude,
which has been the basis of much visual art of the westem
world, and calligraphy, the foundation of Far Eastern brush-
work,” he said.

In a lecture to a 20th century music class at
Washington and Lee, Addiss said Zen painting is a direct and
exciting art form.

Addiss’ art has appeared in over a dozen exhibitions
across the United States, Europe, Japan and China.

However, Addiss’ talents extend beyond the visual
arts. His first love was music.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1992

’

Zen meditation causes
some amazing results

*

Addiss studied composition in college, he said,
but his greatest influence was meeting the famous composer
John Cage.

After graduation, Addiss was living in New York
City when he heard about Cage, who was teaching at The
New School For Social Research. Addiss decided to take a
class with Cage. i

The concepts Cage was teaching were so different
from anything he had learned previously, Addiss said, that
he either had to drop the class or open up his mind. He
managed to do the latter, he said, and it changed his life.

“Cage teaches how to get beyond the limits of »
your own self,” Addiss said. “We all have limitations of
what we can imagine and do.”

Addiss also has performed folk music throughout
Southeast Asia for a year and a half on a government
sponsored cultural exchange.

“The most fun thing [of the trip] for me was to
meet musicians and share things,” said Addiss. ;

Addiss received his bachelor’s degree in
musicology from Harvard University and his master’s and
doctorate in both musicology and art history from the ‘
University of Michigan. He has taught Japanese art history
at the University of Kansas in Lawrence since 1977. '

fa

*

4

a

4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If you never thought ' eenete
anything that started with IBM could
be easy to use, an IBM Personal System will
change all that. With preloaded, user-friendly
software like Microsoft® Windows” 3.0, just
turn it on and you'll be ready to work—polish-
ing off term papers, moving text and graphics
with the click of a mouse. Work can be—fun.
IBM offers a variety of Selected Academic
Solutions*—a range of PS/2® and PS/I™
models to choose from. And with special stu-
dent prices and affordable loan payments,**

CAMPUS
MIKE SANDRIDGE

  

now and you'll ge

every day, After all, isn’t
that what college is all
about? Visit your campus

TACT

outlet to find out how to
make anIBM Personal

System click for you.

CON

“After | plugged
itn, everything
clicked for me”

    

they’re even easy to buy. Act
‘ta special Bonus Packt worth
over $1,000 in savings on air travel, phone
calls, software and more. You probably didn’t
expect that. either. Well,
you learn something new

    
  
 

 

 

PRIA CIPLES ¢/. 50:0 ND R

 

EPTITREMEN TEN WES FING

 

 

WHY YOU SHOULD START PLANNING FOR

YOUR EYES CLOSED.

 

 

or retirement to be the time of your life, you

have to dream a little—about the things
you've always wanted to do: travel, explore,
start a business. Just imagine...

With a dream and a plan, you can make it
happen. Your pension and Social Security
should provide a good
basic retirement income,
but what about all those
extras that make your
dreams possible? You'll
probably need some
additional savings.

THE DREAM IS YOUR OWN.
WE CAN HELP YOU WITH THE PLAN.

TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement
Annuities (SRAs), tax-deferred annuities for
people like you in education and research, are
a good way to save for retirement and save
on taxes now. SRAs are easy — you make con-
tributions through your institution before your
taxes are calculated, so you pay less tax now.

You pay no tax on ; +4
your ‘SRA contributions { .

 

and earnings until you
receive them as income.

And saving regularly

  
 

 

© 1992 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association | College Retirement Equities Fund.

 

can add up quickly.

What else makes SRAs
so special? A broad range
of allocation choices, from
the safety of TIAA to the
investment accounts of
' CREF's variable annuity;
no sales charges; a variety of ways to receive
income, including annuities, payments over a
fixed period, or cash. You may also be able to
borrow against your SRA accumulation
before you retire.*

All this, plus the top investment manage-
ment that has helped make TIAA-CREF the
largest retirement system in the country.

So start dreaming and planning for the time
of your life. Because the sooner you start your
SRA, the greater your savings and your retire-
ment will be.

  

 

 

5 ee
b ' ¢
START PLANNING FOR THE lB yy
TIME OF YOUR LIFE, TODAY.
For your free TIAA-CREF Supplemental ®

Retirement Annuity Kit, send this coupon to
TIAA-CREF, Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue,
New York, NY 10017. Or call 1 800 842-2733, Ext. 8016.

 

 

 

means your contribu- | Name (Please print)
tions and their earnings |
Address
 < a seme 7 City Stat Zip Coo
on ose oe iV: | maT eA eaaNeNS
— — ees
= = = one E : the fu | dnstitution (Full name)
=—s='t= nsuring the future | ole
*This offer is available to Nonprotit higher education institutions, the students. tact ity and staff, as well as to nonprofit K-12 institutions, thei faculty and staff so
. pe le ) hom
These IBM Selected Academic Solutions are available through participating carnpus outlets, BM Authorized PC Dealers certified to remarket Selected Acac demic for those who sha it. Title sali sana a Daytime Phone ( ial ie ==
Solutions or IBM 1 800 222-7257 Orders are subject to availability and IBM may withdraw the offer at any time without notice **PS/2 Loan tor Learning lets |
7 : seal : : TIAA-CREF Participant W yes, Social Security #
you borrow $1,500-$8,000. t The Bonus Pack expires December 31, 1991. IBM and PS/2 are registered trademarks and PS/1 is a trademark of international \
Business Machines Corporation Microsoft is a registered trademark and Windows is a trademark of Microsott Corporation © 1991 IBM Corp N | 0 ve ONe
- siishieriiisiieceiieahtemnennsiais a

 

 

*Depending upon your institution's plan and the state you live in

 

 

CREF annuities are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, Inc
For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call | 800 842-2733, Ext 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully belore vou invest or send money
The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1992

Suicide isn’t the only option

 

By JOYCE BAUTISTA
Phi Staff Reporter

 

Although February was National Suicide
Prevention Month, the Washington and Lee counsel-
ing center decided not to highlight the suicide symp-
toms or steps in preventing it.

“There are certainly no more suicides at
Washington and Lee than at other comparable uni-
versities,” University Psychologist Dr. James Worth
Said.

Two or three W&L students have attempted
suicide this year, which is about average for similar
schools, according to Worth.

“Although [itis] academically chal-
lenging, W&L has a caring, responsive fac-
ulty and administration,” he said.

W&L’s schedule of vacations also
sets the university apart from other
comparable colleges, making students less
susceptible to suicidal tendencies.

“Since [February] break was added
there has been only one suicide,” Worth said.
“Winter term always sees the most suicide
attempts.”

During Worth’s 20 years at W&L,
the counseling center has never sponsored a
program connected to a specific month
concerning suicide, he said.

Instead, Worth said, the counseling
center tries to tackle problems like eating
disorders and alcoholism that may eventually
lead to suicide attempts.

“Very often suicide attempts will
occur when the student is drunk,” he said.

Worth said it is a mistake to get
“wrapped up with the numbers” concerning
suicide. ‘“One is too many,” he said. “No
suicide attempt is acceptable.”

Students must realize that there is a
qualitative difference between attempting to
kill oneself and seeking counselling for
suicidal tendencies, he said.

Worth said he and Associate Dean
of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont,
university psychologist, treat all counselling
sessions as confidential.

“T have literally counseled thousands of
students,” Worth said, “and only two or three were
serious enough to get others involved against the
student’s will.”

By Virginia state law and professional ethics,
Worth said, he is required to take some action to
prevent a student with overt suicidal tendencies from
hurting himself --- even to the extent of informing the
authorities.

“If someone comes to me depressed and
just wants to talk,” Worth said, “he or she shouldn’t
be afraid that I’m going to freak-out and call their
parents.”

 

 

  
 

Bone-In
Chuck Roast

Tyson-Holly
Grade "A"

 

 

  

ry,

{ Fen

 

 

W&LIFE

 

 

Worth said he hopes that people who need
to talk will consider the counselling center.

“We’re not just going to tum them in,” he
said.

A student who is apprehensive about
speaking to one of the counselors should seek help
from the university’s peer counselors, dorm
counselors, residence assistants or his family and
friends, Worth said.

“We [peer counselors] deal with the more
superficial side of suicide,” said Robert Wilson, a
dorm counselor and peer counselor. “Dealing directly
with suicide is not a large part of our training. If the
case is serious we refer them to someone who has had
training.”

 

Wilson said student counselors do not try to
solve other students’ problems, but “to help [them]
find the ability within themselves to improve their
situation.”

There are certain keys to detecting a potential
suicide, Worth said. These include depression,
previous suicide attempts, suicides of family or friends
and threats of suicide.

“Not all threats result in suicide, but suicide
attempts were all preceded by threats,” Worth said.
“Take a threat seriously.”

Worth said he understands that many people
have thought of suicide. But he said there is a
difference between “suicidal ideation,” a fleeting
thought about what suicide would be like, and

Page 5

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Stumble
5 Catamarans

“suicidal intent,” real contemplation and action 10 Kind of sahoo!

   

 
   
   

 

 

 

 

 

potential. : 14 Costa —
“If one notices cryptic statements that hint} 15 “Crazylegs"
of suicide, itis better to confront [the person] with the in —"
idea,” he said. “Never feel it is a mistake to ask.” =
’ : : 17 State vigorously
According to Worth, only when there is} 1g Blessings
actual intention to hurt oneself is some course of | 19 Fencing sword
action necessary. He said he counsels students onan} 20 pened
one-to-one level. 99 Mortersoard
If the sessions do not help, however, Worth appendage
said he will advise the student to stay at a friend’s | 24 Family members
house for a while or seek hospitalization. os ae
“Weare always up-front with the students,” | 35 We o ae
Worth said. “Only if there is a real and present danger | 34 Entrances
would action without the student’s knowledge be 2 gery
. * ord of respect
—ee 39 Bitter herb
40 Bad: pref.
41 Sit for a painting
43 Of inferior value
45 Great review
A 46 oa Woe Inc. 03/05/92
eee
’ yg Last Week’s Answers:
aoe
ei
a 48 Required
i, 50 Repudiates 12 Gen. Robert —
— 53 Metrical foot 13 Rind
7 56 Midday 21 Long fish
] se 60 Affluent 23 Branch
F4 61 Witch of — 25 Wearies
é. ‘fl 63 Certain poems 26 Struggles for
tp, Fo 64 Loafing breath
+6 iv; 65 Inebriate 27 Constellation
~~ n 66 Relax 28 Poem part
—> Ih 67 Ache 30 Wanderer
= ZAN tea 68 Fast horse 31 Person in
== i =. 69 Facilitate bondage
eh 32 Sniggled
tS ; :
Se u DOWN 35 Maine city
Sh 1 Snare 36 ‘‘— Town"
SS 2 — Ridge 42 Made of soil 03/05/9z
. 2 (racehorse) 43 Without a victory
= FS : 3 Cake decorator 44 Sang after
— Ps 4 Holiday applause
- = =F spectacles 45 Make livable
ey 5 Echo again
E 6 Ina line with 47 Door opener
7 Certain student 49 Poetic time
8 Ship weight 51 Excessive
9 Procedures 52 Hangman’s knot 55 251 59 It. family
10 Irons 53 Slow leak §7 Brainchild 62 ‘Believe it
11 Tears 54 Verdi heroine 58 Army meal or—"

 

 

 

 

Rt. 5, Box 379 BOBBY BERKSTRES

LEE HI

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

 

 

703-463-3478

 

TEES

HARRIS TEETER MEANS
LOW PRICES?

 

 

   
 
 
 
         
 

\ : eM ;
*T ‘ 3 * 15 a . 7
Farms .2%
Limit 3 Packages dm B*..
With Additional fia &”,
Purchase

} eigen
er,

Lb.

PER LB.

1-800-768-LEHI

 

   
 
  
   
   
 

SER |

    
 

 

Glacier Club
Ice Cream

*REDUCED®
PA

eT

Pepsi Cola

 
    

     

 

oy
enc

2
Ltr.

\3

 

 

 

 

Diet Pepsi Or

 

 

 

REDEEM THESE BUY ONE GET ONE FREE
COUPONS FOR ADDITIONAL SAVINGS!

   

--(--

BUY ONE GET
ONE FREE

Mae yy When You Purchase One 24 Oz. When You Purchase One 6 Oz. Bag
2 i Bottle Of Hungry Jack Regular Or Of Wise Potato Chips
8 rey 4 Lite rup This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced.

i
l

1! BUY ONE GET

ONE FREE

Lirhit One Coupon Per Purchase.
Offer Expires March 10, 1992.

Coupon Value $1.39

.
1]

MAA
Ny Eee: J

ave) ha f

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced.
Limit One Coupon Per Purchase.
Offer Expires March 10, 1992.

Coupon Value a (V)

VALUABLE COUPON

roid: —-i rr Cs
BUY ONE GET |! BUY ONE GET

(Cc)

     

 
    
 

+2148544

VALUABLE COUPON

 

 

 

*REDUCED«
Py 3

 

  
 
 

California

Navel

ea.

 

ONE FREE I ONE FREE
When You Purchase One 32 Oz. Box | j

Of Uncle Ben's Converted Rice
This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced
Limit One Coupon Per Purchase
Offer Expires March 10, 1992

Coupon Value $1.91

Juice Blend
This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced
Limit One Coupon Per Purchase
Offer Expires March 10, 1992

Cc
Coupon Value $1.99

              

(C)

 

Prices Effective Through March 10, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, March 10, 1992. In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 

 

 

ria —7

7

When You Purchase One 64 Oz.
Carton Of Any Flavor Of Chiquita

 

eal

 
Page 6

 

 

Defending
champ tops
Soderberg

From Staff Reports

Washington and Lee se-
nior Peer Soderberg and fresh-
man Adam Williams wrapped
up the 1991-92 wrestling season
at the NCAA Qualifier held at
Wabash College last weekend.

Soderberg, a 177-pounder,
won his first round match 8-7
over Ballo Marchan before
getting pinned by defending
NCAA champion Peter Wang.

Soderberg won two more
matches in the  consolatoin
bracket before falling to Mike
O’Conner. Soderberg finished
his career with a 52-36 record
and set a personal mark with his
15-9 record this year.

Williams lost both of his
matches at the qualifier to finish
his season with a 9-11 mark.

 

From Staff Reports

The Old Dominion Athletic
Conference does not officially spon-
sor women’s track and field as one of
its 20 sports, but don’t tell that to the
Washington and Lee women’s track
athletes.

Saturday at VMI’s Cormack Field
House, the Generals wrapped up their
third straight ODAC Invitational.

Freshman Sarah Gilbert was the
meet’s high scorer. She placed in the
top three of five different events. She
won the high jump and ran a leg on
the winning 4 by 100 relay team.

Sophomore captain Wendy Neel
won the 55-meter dash, the long jump
and also ran on the 4 by 100 relay
team. All three marks were new
ODAC meet records, and Neel’s time

 

 

 

 

SERVICITAR:
LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 South Main St., Lexington, VA 24450

 

   
     

  

463-2242

  
 

Rent 2 movies, get 1 FREE
Nintendo rentals only 99
JUST IN: Top 50 C&W and R&B CD’s
Classic Comics - Marvel and D.C.
New Movies This Week

Mystery Date
Beastmaster II
The Hit Man
Close My Eyes
Mastercharge & Visa Accepted

Stonewall Square 463-9800

 

 

 
 

 

 

SPORTS

 

 

Women’s track wins
ODAC indoor title

of 7.5 seconds in the 55-meter dash
was a new school record.

Freshman Kim Herring won the
800 meters in ODAC record time of
3:33.9 and set a school record in the
1,500-meters with a time of 5:15.9.
She finished second in the 1,500.

The Generals outdistanced both
Roanoke and Eastern Mennonite by
75 points.

The men’s team finished third,
winning only one event. Sophomores
Scott Covey and John Robinson,
senior John McCallum and freshman
Hayne Hodges won the 4 by 100
relay.

Covey also finished second in the
55-meter high hurdles. Senior Jim
Henry was second in the shot put,
and junior Bo Hannah was second in
the 3,000-meter run.

130 S. Main St.

Typed

The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1992

 

 

 

Impeded path

 

ee

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 

Junior David Lefkowitz finds his
Charlottesville. The Cavaliers top

path blocked by a Virginia defenseman in Saturday's loss at
ped the Generals 14-4.

 

 

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
J Jansport day packs and book b

Lexington Bike

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

Deavers Alley Business Services

TERM PAPERS

Resumes, Cover Letters & Envelopes
Laser Printing and FAX Service

203 N. Main Street

    
 
   
     

   
 
 
     

Shop

463-7969

    
   
 

 

  

WA&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St., Lexington - Below First American Bank

 
   
    
   

 
  

SHOE FIXERS

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satir1 shoes dyed in 1 hr.

464-6666

 
      

 

  

    
    

463-9455

 
 

 

   

Koppagalllo

WINTER SALE
All Winter Merchandise — 14 Off

“Spring Fashions Are In”

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

  

 
   
   
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

You can get a lot more out of life when you
set your sights a little higher. Which is what
applying for the American Express® Card
is tie. When you get the Card, it’s
easier to do the things you want to do.
And with the student savings that come
along with it, you can do even more.
Fly roundtrip on
Continental for he than
$100 each way.

Student Cardmembers receive four travel

mer travel certificate
is good for $149
or $199 roundtrip.

$129 or $189 roundtrip—and each sum-

Savings that
upgrade your lifestyle.
As a student Cardmember you get more
than great travel savings. You also save

| Airfare examples based on destination.

  
  
 
 
  

 

certificates. They can be used to fly any-

Your

where Continental Airlines flies in the ae
48 contiguous United States. Two for the re r ste
school year, and two for the summer* ee one
ing on w ou fly, each eee ee .
Depending here you fly, | Chicago-NY $129

school year travel certificate is good for

$288

Lowest

Available Your

Airfarest Savings
428 239
ae Express Card.

 

$159

 

Get going, call +800-96¢A MEX.

If you're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call

“School year is considered Sept. |-June 14, summer pene 15-Aug. 31, Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive with your certificates
Iment of this offer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines’ performance
tLowest Available Airfares effective January 1992. Fares are compiled by the American Express Airfare Unit which monitors airfares between major centers in the United States

Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulf

© 1992 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc

 

money on everything from clothing

Obviously, savings like these
say a lot about the value of the Card.
And having the Card will say a lot about
you. For one thing it says you h
on what you spend, so you dont have to
carry over a balance. It also says youre smart
enough not to pay interest charges that can
really add up. So take a few minutes now to
call (have your bank address and account
number ready), and apply for the American

With all that the Card offers you, not
even the sky is the limit.

  
   

| _—
| City State Zip

|

|

| Internship Programs
| © London, England
| © Madrid, Spain

 

 

    
 

INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
Boston University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Explore the. World This Summer

Through Study Abroad
Internship Programs
London, England * Madrid, Spain
Sydney, Australia « Washington, D.C.
Language/Liberal Arts Programs
Ancient Greece * Eastern Europe * London, England
Madrid, Spain * Nikopolis, Greece * Padova, Italy
Paris, France

For program details complete the coupon below and mail it to:

Boston University, International Programs

232 Bay State Road, Box JR, Boston, MA 02215
617/353-9888

An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution

     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
      

 

 

 

 

 

Address

 

Phone ( =

Summer 0

College/ University

Kl 27 Spring O 7: |

Language/Liberal Arts Programs
© Nikopolis, Greece
© Padova, Italy

© Paris, France

© Ancient Greece
© Eastern Europe
O London, England
© Madrid, Spain

Sydney, Australia

 

to long distance phone
calls. All for a
$55 annual fee.

ave a handle

 

 

 

 

NAME

PHONE

ITHACA COLLEGE :
LONDON CENTER

35 Harrington Gardens '
Semester or Year Programs + Transferrable Credit ,
COURSE WORK ¢

British and intemational faculty teach business, communications,
humanities, mathematics/natural sciences, music, and social sciences

EXCURSIONS
Field tips and excursions to various sites and cities, theatres, museums,
galleries, and social and political institutions are an integral part of the curriculum

INTERNSHIPS
Fields for internship placement include business, communications.
economics, politics, social services, and theatre arts

SPECIAL PROGRAM
A special intensive theatre program is offered in the spring

For further information, write or call
International Programs-CP
Ithaca College
Ithaca, New York 14850
607-274-3306

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Please send information about the Ithaca College London Center to:

ADDRESS

SCHOOL YEAR MAJOR

Return to: Office of International Programs, Ithaca College, Ithaca, NY 14850, (607) 274-3306
The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1992

 

 

SPORTS

 

 

Earlier start doesn’t bother men’s tennis

 

By SEAN O’ ROURKE
Phi Staff Reporter

February is not the most ideal
month to play tennis outdoors. Most
of the time it’s cold, windy and
miserable.

However, to complete the
Division III schedule before June, the
Washington & Lee men’s tennis team
had to open their season in February.

They began on Friday with a
convincing 8-1 win over Christopher
Newport College. The Generals only
loss was an upset of No. 1 singles
player Richard Yates. But Yates
didn’t have to worry about the team
on this day.

Robbie MacNaughton, Tom
Mazziotti, Talmedge Trammell, Wes
Ruggles and David Schweppe swept
‘the other five singles matches from
‘second through sixth, respectively.

 

Then Yates turned around to
team-up with Macnaughton to cruise
to an easy win at No. 1 doubles. The
teams of Mazziotti/Schweppe and
Ruggles/Trammell rounded out
W&L’s scoring.

“Tt was a pretty good weekend,”’
said assistant coach Gavin Colliton,
filling in for head coach Gary Franke.
“The guys played well.”’

The Generals continued their
opening weekend with two Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference matches
on Saturday.

The Generals faced Roanoke at
9:30 a.m. It was 43 degrees with a
windchill of 18, and the wind was
gusting up to 45 mph. Not ideal ten-
nis weather.

It didn’t have any effect on the
Generals. They rudely dismissed the
Maroons 9-0. Yates rebounded from
his loss and dominated his match

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5

. 318. Main St., Lexington

7

WO

 

 

 

 

audiotronics |

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
MONSTER OPTONICA
KEF CcwDd
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
* SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

* BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

* CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
* IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

* WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
* MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

FREE SPRING BREAK VA-

CATION Organize a group,
earn commissions and free
trips! Call: 800-826-9100.

RRR ERA

FOR RENT:

 

4 bedroom, 2 baths. 1%
miles Rt. 60 East. July 1,
1992 to June 30, 1993.

463-5383

 
 

 

 

    

 

 

Come to your Printing Center for:

* Flyers and Posters

* Copying and Printing
° Programs

* Newsletters

 

University PRINTING CENTER 1st Floor Reid Hall - 463-8448

The Printing Center offers quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job return, and
competitive pricing. We have a Macintosh lix which can read IBM disks, Scanned
images can be added to your campaign or organizational flyers for that individual
appearance. Need a high resolution output? We offer our Linotronic 200SQ. Our
services cover University and non-profit organizations. Stop by today!

 

* Custom Resumes and Letters
* Transparencies

* Brochures and Booklets

* Scanning

 

 

from start to finish. The other five
singles and three doubles teams kept
their records spotless with easy wins.

The Generals then had to brave
the elements again Saturday afternoon
as they took on Guilford. The Gener-
als stayed warm despite the elements,
winning 7-2.

All six singles won and the dou-
bles team of Yates/MacNaughton
polished off their opponents to com-
plete W&L’s scoring.

Colliton said the team isn’t match
tough yet and that caused some lapses
in concentration during Friday and
Saturday’s matches.

Franke echoed those thoughts
when he talked about the keys to a
successful season,

“They haven't played a lot of
matches,’’ he said. ‘‘They need the
matches to gain experience and the
intensity needed to win. We have a

  
 

   

E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

3 BEDROOM APARTMENT - within walking distance to W&L Re-
frigerator, stove, dishwasher, washer and dryer furnished. For more in-
formation, call: Harry Swisher, 463-7690 after 5:00 p.m.

Hairstylist)
36 Varner Lane
463-3975 ag
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri, 8-5

Valley TiueValie Hardware

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00

solid one and two [singles], and the
three through six singles are constant-
ly pushing each other. We need ev-
eryone when we play teams like
Emory, Swarthmore and Wooster.”

The Generals were expecting a
great indicator of where they are to
be last Tuesday’s scheduled match
against Kenyon. However, many of
the Kenyon players fell ill and the
match was officially canceled. The
two teams played four singles and
two doubles and came up even, 3-3.
It will not count as a team match, but
the scores will count for the players’
personal records.

As it stands now, the Generals
are 3-0, 2-0 in the ODAC. The Gen-
erals travel to Hampden-Sydney today
for another ODAC match, and they
return home for James Madison on
Wednesday.

Furniture Dealers

   
 

   
   

463-2742

 

 

  
  

     

  

|

Sun. 1:00-5:00
463-2186

 

 

 

 

K&W Office Equipment

 

 

 

 

We have all of your
resume paper & supplies

"20% Discount on all
non-sale items to students”

(703) 463-1620

11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
VISA, MC, AMEX

 

 

 

 

FOR RENT STUDENT HOUSING

Call: Mitchell or Mark Shaner
463-2823 or 463-1895

1st - 4 bedrooms, washer & dryer, kitchen (stove &
refrig.) cable available. Commonly known as: School

House

$800/a month

2nd - 3 bedrooms, washer & dryer, kitchen (stove &
refrig.) cable available. Commonly known as Club

$600/a month
3rd - 1 bedroom, kitchen (Stove & refrig.) cable

House.

available.

$250/a month

 

 

 

 

 

for

a unique opportunity

Math/Science

(Majors/Minors/Aptitudes)

For you and for the world, Peace Corps will
combine your education with training to pre-
pare you for a volunteer position in: @ Edu-
cation @ Fisheries © Health @ Agriculture @
Forestry or other areas. You'll meet new peo-
ple, learn a new language, experience a new
culture and gain a whole new outlook, And
while you're building your future, you'll be
helping people in developing countries learn
the basics of technological advancement.

March 5: Information Session, University Center
4:00pm - 6:00pm

March 5: Information Table, next to cafeteria, Lunch Time
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS MARCH 17, 1992. SIGN UP WITH

CAREER PLANNING AND PLACEMENT

The toughest job
you'll ever love

:
=
3
y

 

 

Page 7

 

 

Eipndiasinenadnainanteeasenee aan janeedieatenieeot ee

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi
Sophomore Robbie MacNaughton stretches for a backhand against
Christopher Newport Friday. MacNaughton and W&L won 8-1.

Financial Ald available immediately! Special grants pro-
gram. Every student eligible. No one turned down, simple

application. Send name, address and $1 P&H fee (refunda-
ble) to: Student Services, P.O. Box 22-4026, Hollywood, FL
33022.

BEST WISHES FOR A SUCCESSFUL
1992 MOCK CONVENTION

FROM W&L FOOD SERVICE

 

CONVENTIONEERS ARE REMINDED

OF SPECIAL MOCK CONVENTION HOURS

AT SNACK BAR

ON SATURDAY, MARCH 7:

8:30 AM - 3:00 PM

 

 

ASSOCIATES

INCORPORATED
Real Estate Services a
Lexington, Virginiag 463-7168

FOR RENT
STUDENT HOUSING

COUNTY: WITHIN 5 MILES LEXINGTON
5 bedrooms, 3 full baths, large equipped kitchen (stove,
refrig, dishwasher) washer & dryer. Fireplace in living
room, views from deck.

$900/per mo.

 

CITY:
Summit Street: 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, large yard,
large rec room in basement.

$800/per mo.

Walker Street: 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, large kitchen,
close to campus.

$800/per mo.

Randolph Street: 4 bedrooms, 2 baths, large kitchen,
close to campus.
$800/ per mo.

Mead Associates, Incorporated
463-7168

  

fees Mai

The Jacob Ruff House

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

This week’s scores:
Track - in ODAC meets
Men's Tennis - d. RC 9-0; d. GC 7-2
Swimming- in Lib. Arts Invit.
Baseball - W&L 9-9, W.Va.Tech 12-6
Men's Lacrosse - W&L 19, R-MC 9

 

 

 

>

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

PORTS

 

 

Next week’s games:

Men's Lacrosse -

Lynchburg
Women’s Lacrosse- 3/7 (h) Guilford
Baseball - 3/8 at M. Washington
Men's Tennis - 3/5 at H-SC

3/7 at F&M, 3/11 at

 

 

 

PAGE 8

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Sports Editor

 

Washington and Lee head base-
ball coach Jeff Stickley knew going
into the 1992 season that he would
have to get contributions from his
freshman class if the Generals were
going to have any kind of a season.

While he had hoped for the con-
tributions, he didn’t know that they’d
come so soon in the season. Fresh-
men played key roles in two wins as
the Generals split their first four
games of the season.

On Friday against West Virginia
Tech, freshman Duane Van Arsdale
was the offensive hero. With two outs
in the first inning, Van Arsdale deliv-
ered a bases-loaded double in his first
college at bat, giving the Generals a
3-0 lead they would never relinquish.

Senior T. J. Daly pitched into the
seventh inning allowing just three
runs, and senior Toby McCoy pitched
the ninth to record the save in a 9-8
season-opening win. Freshman catch-
er Todd Stanton had three hits and
drove in two run, and junior Jon

W&L women’s
swimmers take
5th at DePauw

By ERIN MCKINNEY
Phi Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee

women’s swimming team ended their |}

season last weekend with a respect-
able fifth-place finish at the Liberal
Arts Invitational at DePauw Universi-
ty.

“The girls finished in the mid-
dle of the pack,’’ said head coach
Kiki Jacobs.

Jacobs felt that the intensity that
the girls had during the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Champion-
ships was missing from this meet.

“It was tough to swim (at Lib-
eral Arts) coming off of ODACs,”’
said Jacobs.

Jacobs said that it was a tough
meet because a number of girls who
will compete at the NCAA meet
swam at DePauw.

Junior Claire Dudley, who will
represent W&L at Nationals, ran up
against some of next week’s competi-
tion. In the 100-yard breaststroke,

Anton's early surge leads Generals past R-MC, 19-9

 

By JAY PLOTKIN
Phi Sports Editor

Hesse also drove in two runs,

“‘T.J. pitched about as good a
first game as he has thrown in four
years,’’ said Stickley. ‘‘He went
longer than we expected him to.”’

On Saturday, the Generals split a
double header with the Bears, losing
the opener 12-9 before claiming the
second game 9-6. Again, Van Arsdale
was the offensive star.

In the first inning of the first
game, he hit a two-run homer and
then hit another two-run blast in the
fourth inning. Daly also drove in two
runs in the first-game loss.

The Generals earned a split when
Van Arsdale hit another first inning
home run, this a three-run shot, and
freshman Bates Brown pitched five
innings and allowed just two earned
runs while striking out five. Daly
provided the game-winning hit with a
two-run double in the second inning.

“‘Van Arsdale had a pretty good
weekend,’’ said Stickley. ‘‘He’s a
good player and we expect him to
contribute.”

Van Arsdale’s three home runs
are more than the team leader had on

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK

Freshmen respond to early season challenges

last year’s team, and his 10 RBI are
just five away from last year’s
leader’s total.

“‘Any time we get three home
runs, it surprises me,’’ said Stickley.
“It'll be tough for him to keep up
that type of hitting, but we sure hope
he does.’’

Van Arsdale led W&L’s offensive
attack, going six for 10. Senior lead-
off hitter Brian Harper was six for 12
and scored six runs. He had two hits
in each game. Daly went four for 10

and drove in four runs as the desig- | 5

nated hitter.

On Wednesday, the Generals’ ==

bats were cooled a bit by Division I
Holy Cross. Craig Johnson held the
Generals to just three hits on the
afternoon as the Crusaders rolled to a
15-0 win on Smith Field. Van Ars-
dale, sophomore Chad Loizeaux and
junior Keith Camp had the W&L hits.

““They’re one of the best teams

 

we'll play all year,’’ said Stickley. a"

“‘We also play Mary Washington on
Sunday. Those are our two toughest
games. It’s good experience for our
guys to play them.”’

 

 

The Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team began the de-
fense of its 1991 Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference title with a 19-9 win
at Randolph-Macon.

Senior Drew Anton scored three
of the game’s first four goals and five
of W&L’s first six, and the Generals
jumped out to a 7-3 halftime lead.

“I moved back to midfield this
year,’’ said Anton, who has scored 12
goals in three games, of his scoring
spree. “‘I’m able to use my size to get
in position to get off good shots, and
I’m getting a little lucky right now.”’

CRUISE JOBS

 

Cruise Lines Now Hiring. Earn
$2,000+ per month working on cruise
ships. World travel! Holiday, Sum-
merand Full-timeemploymentavail-
able. For Employment Program call
1-206-545-4155 ext. C 328

 

 

File photo

Junior Claire Dudley is the lone W&L women’s swimmer to qualify
for nationals. She will swim March 12-15 at Buffalo State.

Dudley faced three other national
qualifiers and finished fifth.

Dudley has already qualified for
the 100-yard and 200-yard_ breast-
stroke and the 200-yard individual
medley.

Senior captain Jodi Herring
ended her W&L career with a season-
best time in the 1650-yard freestyle.

R-MC, which never got closer
than three goals in the first half,
closed to 13-8 to start the fourth
quarter, but senior Jeff Roberts scored
two goals in a row, both off assists
from freshman Andy Dutton, and
W&L put the game away with a 6-1
run.

Roberts scored four goals, all in
the second half, and handed out three
assists to lead W&L in scoring. Dut-
ton scored two goals and handed out
four assists, and junior David Schim-
inger and sophomore Jeb Tilly scored
two goals each.

Sophomore Colin Higgins had a
goal and three assists, junior John
Hunter scored once and dished out

1Coming soon

; MC ’96 §

Leeeeeneenenl

MONEY

FOR COLLEGE

Every student is eligible for some
type of financial aid regardless
of grades or parental income.

Financial Aid

Available Immediately!

Special grants program
Every student eligible

No one turned down
Simple application

Send
fee (refundable) to:
Student Services

P. O. Box 22-4026

Hollywood, FL. 33022

address and $1 P&H

QUARANTEED.

 

She won the event in a time of
18:46,00. She also took a second
place in the 500-yard freestyle.

The women ended their season
with a 5-9 record and undefeated in
the ODAC dual meet season.

‘*We could not have asked for
anything more in the conference,”’
Jacobs said.

two assists, and freshman Ty Tydings
and junior David Lefkowitz each
scored once.

The win came after the Generals
lost to Virginia, ranked sixth in Divi-
sion I, 14-4 in Charlottesville Satur-
day. W&L trailed just 4-2 at the half,
but couldn’t keep up with the more
talented Cavaliers in the second half.

‘We stuck right with them,”’
said Anton, ‘‘but they were so deep
they just wore us down. We had to
run the same guys while they were
always running different groups.’’

Anton scored two goals for the
Generals, and senior Coleman Devlin
stood tall in the goal, making a ca-
reer-high 20 saves. Virginia out-shot

 

MARCH 5, 199:

= ae

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

 

wie, oe

Freshman Bates Brown tags out a West Va. Tech baserunner after senior pitcher T.J. Daly picked him
off of first base in Friday's 8-6 win. W&L took two of three games from the Bears.

 

 

By SEAN O’ROURKE
Phi Staff Reporter

Their months of hard work and discipline came
down to one three-day meet in Indiana.

The Washington & Lee men’s swimming team
faced some of the best in Division IIJ swimming last
weekend and proved they belonged.

The Generals gained some well-deserved respect
by placing third at the Liberal Arts Invitational, behind
Wabash and DePauw.

‘‘Happy is an understatement,’’ said coach Page
Remillard. ‘“When it was all over, the other teams were
in shock at how well we did.’’

The Generals came within 20 points of finishing
ahead of DePauw. But, DePauw competed in the diving
competition and had their score augmented by those
points,

“I don’t consider it a third-place finish,’’ said
senior captain Doug Brown. ‘‘Swimming and diving
are two separate events and they should be scored that
way. So really, we beat DePauw by two points.”’

The Generals started strong, winning the first
morning session on Friday, However, they lost their
edge at the night session and were shutout.

‘‘We came out flying,”’ said Remillard. ‘“The guys
saw Doug[Brown] trim 15 seconds off his season-best
time and they knew it was going to be a good week-
end. However, they got lost in that feeling a bit that

 

Rowe, Brown qualify for NCAA meet

night.”’

Nevertheless, the Generals regained their compo-
sure and swam well the last two days. Remillard
attributes the rebound to the experience the team gained
on Friday.

‘*The guys saw that the other teams weren’t going
away. Saturday and Sunday they knew they’d have to
concentrate the whole time and not get wrapped up in
the good feelings of winning.’’

Remillard also said the third-place finish justified
their invitation to the meet.

‘*When DePauw invited us they were hoping we'd
just be competitive and do better than were at the time.
When we left, their coach gave us the ultimate compli-
ment. He said, ‘You don’t have our respect, you have
everyone’s respect.’ That was a tremendous feeling,’’

Two swimmers that also gained everyone’s respect
were Doug Brown and freshman stand-out John Rowe.
Both Brown and Rowe qualified for Nationals with
season-best times in five events.

Brown will compete next weekend in the 500-yard
and the 1,650-yard freestyle. Rowe will vie for top
honors in the 200-yard and 400-yard individual medley
and the 200-yard breaststroke. Their efforts earned
them Co-Swimmers of the Meet honors.

‘‘Our goal is swim better times than we did this
past weekend,” said Brown, ‘‘We want to go much
faster and be competitive in all our events.”’

 

 

W&L 59-19 and held the Generals
shotless in the third quarter.

“Coleman showed everyone
that he is capable of playing at a
higher level,’’ Anton said, ‘‘That
gives us more confidence.”’

The Generals, 2-1 and ranked
seventh in Division III, travel to
Franklin & Marshall for a game Sat-
urday. The Diplomats are ranked
13th.

‘*A lot of people will be looking
at Saturday’s game to judge how
good both teams are,’’ Anton said.
“‘We need to send people a message
that we are as good as last year’s
team, or maybe a little bit better than
last year’s team.”’

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Junior David Schiminger works upfield against Virginia in
Saturday’s 14-4 loss to the sixth-ranked Cavaliers.

 

 

 

 

 

TG

 

Outlet Stores

Don’t forget to shop in our new BARGAIN ROOM

30 S. Main Street
R.E. Lee Building
9:30-5:30, Mon.-Sat.

463-9730
50-80% Savings on Nationally Advertised
Catalog Brands

IF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

     

Charge Accounts

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ®Perfumes

 

  
   

703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450

© Free Delivery

11S. Randolph St.

   

 

464-40805

Phish - A Picture of Nectar [
CD - $14.95 4
Cassette - $9.95 8

8

Mon.-Thurs. 11-6, Fri.-Sat. 11-5

 

PSO IOVS AI PVA OVI OOP OD

The Beauty Bar

159 S. MAIN ST.
463-2886
LE> NGTON, VIRGINIA

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT

OVP LOW AP VP VAP PAP OM Se
