we TT VA

OCT

WN

 

Dhe Ring-tum Phi

100
9g

 

VOLUME 91, NO. 5

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 10, 1991

Senior gets one year suspended sentence, fine

 

By Cathy Lopiccolo
News Editor

 

A Washington and Lee senior was sentenced
Sept. 24 to a one year suspended prison sen-
tence, a $500 fine and 50 hours of community
service after he pled guilty to trespassing.

Marcus Lamar Miller was arrested Aug. 6
and charged with breaking into a female W&L
student’s home in Lexington and attempting to
rape or sexually assault her, police records
show.

According to court records, the original
charge of breaking and entering with intent to
commit a felony, rape, was reduced in exchange
for Miller’s pleading guilty to trespassing.

Lexington Police Sgt. E. W. Straub said the
Commonwealth's Attorney Eric Sisler explained
the plea bargain to the victim, who agreed to

the bargain and to Miller’s sentence.

As part of his sentence, Miller must undergo
counselling and is forbidden from contacting the
woman he was charged with attempting to
assault.

Senior Stephanie McHaney said the victim
was having a party with McHaney, Miller and
other friends the night of Aug. 5. Straub said
the victim drank too much and passed out.

McHaney said a female friend took the
victim to her room and put her in bed. McHan-
ey then decided to take home one of the guests
and go to Lee-Hi Truck Stop with another girl.

McHaney said she locked the back door and
all the windows in the house before they left,
because she thought Miller had been ‘‘acting
strange’ and might try to come back that night.

McHaney said as she and her friends drove
away, they noticed Miller was sitting on the
porch of a neighboring house.

McHaney said she dropped off one of the
girls at her home and then she and the remain-
ing girl went back to the victim’s house.

At the house, McHaney said she and her
friend noticed that the victim's bedroom light
was off, although they had tumed the light on
before they left.

McHaney said they also found one of the
doors partially opened, but still locked by a
security chain.

When the women went to check on the
victim, McHaney said they found the victim
partially undressed and Miller in the bedroom.
McHaney said the woman was still asleep and
evidently had not moved while her friends were
gone.

Miller told the women he had come back to
the house to pick up his backpack, which had
beer in it, McHaney said. McHaney said the
backpack was downstairs, not upstairs where

the victim’s bedroom is.

Straub said he found a window with a
broken blind and footprints on the window sill,
which indicated someone used the window to
enter the house.

After Miller left the house, McHaney said
she called University President John D. Wilson
and her parents.

Straub said McHaney called the Lexington
Police Department the next morning, and Miller
was arrested that afternoon outside the W&L
Bookstore.

Miller could not be reached for comment.
David Natkin, the attorney who represented
Miller in court, refused to comment on the
case.

The student who police say Miller tried to
rape asked not to be identified and refused to
comment on the incident, as did the third
woman present that night.

  

 

Miller

Graffiti
defaces
poster

 

* + Thomas Eisenhauer

Staff Reporter

 

A threatening racial slur was writ-
ten on a poster in the Washington
and Lee Law School last week.

A female first-year law student
found the words ‘‘Kill the Niggers’’
scrawled on a poster in her carrel in
the law library Thursday. The ‘‘Free
South Africa’ poster depicted a pic-
ture of a black man and woman.

No evidence suggests the graffiti
was written by a W&L law student,
said Randall Bezanson, dean of the
Law School.

“I don’t have any reason specifi-
cally to think it was a law student,”’
Bezanson said.

He said this is the second piece
of anti-black graffiti the woman has
found in her -carrel in about three
weeks. She did not report the first
slur because she believed it was an
isolated incident, Bezanson said.

The woman plans to respond to
the graffiti in a letter to the student
body of the Law School, said Reggie
Aggarwal, president of the first-year
law class.

Inmediately after learning of the
graffiti, Bezanson sent a letter to law
students and faculty denouncing the
slur as an ‘‘act of moral and intellec-
tual cowardice.

“‘T think there is unanimous revul-
sion and moral condemnation of this
act within the student body,’’ Bezan-
son said. ‘‘I haven’t spoken to any-
one who wasn’t saddened, upset and
...surprised this would happen here.”’

Minority Students Association
President Rita Poindexter said the
MSA will not respond.

‘‘We feel there’s no need to pay
any attention to such ignorance,”
Poindexter said.

Monday the Student Bar Associa-
tion condemned the graffiti.

W&L Security and the dean of
students are investigating the inci-
dent, Bezanson said.

University

From the W&L News Office

 

 

Washington and Lee will ‘celebrate
the dedication of its renovated frater-
nity system Saturday at 12 p.m.

The ceremony will be on Henry
Street in Lexington between Main
and Jefferson streets, or in Lee Cha-
pel if it rains.

‘The Fraternity Renaissance is a
demonstration of the university’s
commitment to raising the quality of
life for its students in terms of frater-
nity living and social life,’’ said
Leroy C. Atkins, associate dean of
students.

“This is a commitment to the
whole student body, as the renais-
sance is geared towards bringing
greater dignity, decorum, and civility
back into the students’ social life,”’
Atkins said.

Speakers will include H. E. ‘‘B-
uddy’’ Derrick, mayor of Lexington;
Ed Bishop, ‘68, president of the
Alumni Fraternity Council; Greg
Hicks, president of the Interfraternity
Council; A. Stevens Miles, Jr., rector
of the W&L Board of Trustees; and
John D. Wilson, university president.

 

 

 

English

By Jennifer Latham
Staff Reporter

 

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Telma Cedillo, a waitress at El Rodeo restaurant, will soon be greeting her
customers with better English, thanks to the efforts of W&L junior Shannon
Smith.

Soon to serve in

as well

little English.
Smith says he plans to take advantage of
one-on-one instruction which will allow him

 

junior, hopes he has a better idea.

 

The introductory chapters in the typical
foreign-language text look like a picture book,
and as the lessons progress, the litile draw-
ings of Julio's sombrero or escargots on a
plate become fewer and fewer. Soon, the
professor is plunging into subjunctives and
pluperfect verb tenses, plural possessives and
inversion, while the students are still flound-
ering with ‘‘Hello my name is Pascal."’

Shannon Smith, a Washington and Lee

Smith plans to teach English to Telma
Cedillo, a native of Honduras now living in
Lexington. She is a waitress at Lexington’s
newest restaurant, El Rodeo, and speaks very

to teach Cedillo ‘‘the basic tools to ask for
what she needs.

‘I’ve considered different approaches
- like using magazines, board games such as
Scrabble and visual association games like
Pictionary — to get down to the basics in
which we can actually communicate,’’ Smith
said.

Smith, a Romance languages major from
Greensboro, N.C., said he has taken one year
of Spanish. He said his knowledge of
Spanish will be essential in his sessions with
Cedillo because the only English she knows
is what she’s been able to pick up waiting
tables at El Rodeo.

In return for Smith’s help, Cedillo will
help Smith with his Spanish studies.

 

 

dedicates Renaissance

Fraternity Renaissance at W&L
began in October, 1985 with a day-
long symposium sponsored by the
Alumni Fraternity Council.

At the fall 1988 board meeting, the
trustees announced the approval of a
$10 million plan for the renovation
phase of Renaissance. Under the
program, the university advanced
financing for renovation of the frater-
nity houses. The money was to be
returned to the school over a period
of time through alumni gifts, rental
payments, and Greek membership
fees.

By 1987, standards for all the
fraternities had been published. To
be eligible for renovation, each
fraternity had to implement various
policies, such as for the responsible

use of alcohol and the prohibition of

illegal drugs in the houses, and to en-
courage academic excellence and
intellectual growth among its mem-
bers.

The university's goal is to bring all
fraternity houses into compliance with
the Alumni Fraternity Council-set
standards by September, 1993.

Staff Reporter Brian McClung
contributed to this article.

 

 

86 percent pledge

 

By Maureen Levey
Staff Reporter

 

Eighty-six percent of freshmen who rushed this year
pledged a fraternity, said Associate Dean of Students
for Greek Affairs Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins at
Tuesday night's Interfraternity Council meeting.

“I’m very pleased with these numbers,’
said.

IFC President Greg Hicks reminded fraternities that
pledgeship does not begin until January.

“I want to keep fall Rush, so there shouldn't be
clean-ups or sober driving asked of freshmen that’s not
asked of the brothers,’’ said Hicks.

With Homecoming this weekend, Atkins also
reminds the fraternities to try to contain the drinking.

‘It is critical to use alcohol responsibly. If you
can't, don’t use alcohol at all,’’ said Atkins.

‘‘When I was a student here, guys were looked
down on who fell and got sick all over,’’ said Atkins.
‘*It was cool to be able to hold your alcohol.”’

Atkins reminded the fraternities that for just one
night, it could be easy and effective to tone down
drinking and abide by chapter constitutions.

Atkins

 

 

SAB bills total
$9.000 deficit

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Activities Board had a deficit
of almost $10,000 last year, which was $6,000
more than SAB members told the Executive
Committee at the end of the year.

SAB Treasurer Susan Wooton said that
$6,339.52 of the $9,663.15 overrun came from
Fancy Dress, which runs on a separate budget.
The other $3,323.63 was from the regular SAB
budget.

In May, then-FD Chairman John Flippen
told the EC that the event had gone about
$6,300 over budget due to stolen equipment, a
second printing run of invitations, fireworks,
and an unexpectantly high clean-up cost.

However, then-SAB Chairwoman Kathleen
Duwel said the SAB had a surplus of about
$3,000 which could be used to cover part of
the FD deficit, leaving the total overrun at only
$3,000.

Wooton said when she took over the job
this year, she was told there had been about a
$3,000 deficit. Later, she found out from W&L
Assistant Controller Don Holt, who is in charge
of student organization accounts, that the deficit
had been much higher.

Wooton said that in addition to the $6,000
FD. deficit, the SAB general budget was also

$3,000 over buget. She said she thinks the
deficit was due to a poor showing at the Ne-
ville Brothers concert in the spring.

Duwel told the EC in May that the Neville
Brothers had cost about $18,000. She said the
SAB made $3,000 from the event, half of what
was expected.

“The Neville Brothers were supposed to
come earlier in the year, but they couldn’t and
were scheduled for spring term,’’ Wooton said.
‘“That’s a pretty expensive band for that time
of the year’? when many students are away
from campus.

Wooton said the deficit is ‘‘not the prob-
lem’’ of this year’s SAB since all organization
deficits are covered at the end of the year.

EC President Giles Perkins explained that at
the end of the year, the surplus money from all
student organization accounts is collected into
‘fone big pot.’’ Unpaid bills from any or-
ganization are then paid.

Had the SAB not run up the deficit, Perkins
added, the $9,000 would have been part of the
EC surplus and could have been used during
this year’s budgeting process.

Criticizing the SAB’s overrun at Monday’s
EC meeting, first-year law Rep. Bill Callahan
said such deficits ‘‘invalidate the whole budget
process.”’

Perkins said the EC will watch the SAB
more closely this year.

 

 

 

Photo by Lindsay Coleman, The Ring-tum Phi

Freshmen James Whiteside, Payton Lawrence and Josh Helton take a smoke break
in the Co-op. A group of first-year law students meanwhile would like to see

smoking banned in such a public place.

Non-smokers petition

 

By Craig Burke
Assignment Editor

 

About 60 first-year law students signed a
petition calling for a ban on smoking in all in-
door, public areas on the campus of Washing-
ton and Lee, law student Steve Brody said.

Brody said he took over the campaign when
president of the first-year law class Reggie
Aggarwal met with resistance in his efforts to
bring about a change in the current university
smoking policy.

‘*Reggie needed somebody to take over the
organization of this petition,’’ Brody said. ‘‘He
will still be involved in representing the petition
in front of the Student Bar Association.”’

Brody said he believes it is the university's
responsibility to create a policy that would
protect the rights and health of non-smokers.

‘Smokers shouldn't have the right to harm
non-smokers when it has been medically proven
that secondhand smoke is dangerous,’’ he said.

He said the Co-op in particular needs to
change its current smoking policy, moving the
smoking area from the main room to the back
room.

“T eat lunch at the Co-op,’’ Brody said.
‘I’m almost always nearly asphyxiated and
never able to find a seat in the little non-smok-
ing area,”’

The smoking area in the Co-op is limited to
the section farthest from the grill, Food Service
worker Nancy Hofstetter said.

Hofstetter said she believes most students
stick to these rules and should be allowed to
smoke.

‘T think it’s everyone's option to do what
they want to do,’’ Hofstetter said. ‘‘It’s wrong
to tell somebody they can’t do something.”’

Brody said he’s collecting signatures from
members of the first-year law class, because
it’s a small, yet diverse group.

‘*A group this size is manageable,’’ he said.
‘‘With a larger group, it would be too difficult
to get correct percentages.’’

The petition will be presented to the SBA,
Brody said. The SBA would then probably
present the findings to the Executive Commit
tee,

‘“‘T don’t agree with a total ban on smok
ing,’’ Aggarwal said. ‘‘But there is obviously
some concern out there, and the university
should be aware of it.’’

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jon Sbar comes home
page 2

 

All about Homecoming
pull-out section

 

 
Page 2

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Founded September 18, 1897

SAB... again

Look out everybody, comedy and big-screen entertain-
ment are coming your way soon, courtesy the Student Ac-
tivities Board. And at the modest price tag of $5,500, it’s a
veritable steal.

Or so the Executive Committee must have believed when
they allocated $6,000 additional to SAB Monday, giving the
board a budget of about $5,500 more than they had last
year.

This new allocation came simultaneously with SAB’s
realization that last year’s board left almost $10,000 in
unpaid bills for the student body surplus and reserve to pick
up.

This scenario might sound familiar to those of you with
good long-term recall. Just two years ago the SAB made
September headlines with some $20,000 in unpaid bills
which flooded the business office over the summer. After a
year of hand-slapping by the EC, the committee reinvested
its trust in SAB. Alas, only to be disappointed again.

But this time the EC did not seem dismayed by disap-
pointment, as they threw more money into an organization
which has proven its inability to handle it. Undoubtedly
there is an argument at work that this year’s SAB cannot be
held acountable for last year’s SAB’s screw-ups. Well that
argument works nicely in Utopia where the slate is cleared
annually, but W&L is not Utopia. In our reality, somebody
has to pay the bills. The EC should have withheld exactly
the amount of last year’s deficit in this year’s allocation to
SAB, rather than spreading the deficit over all the student
organizations.

SAB is the only student organization that has this
peculiar immunity to doing wrong. The EC is quick to
recognize mishandled money in the most small-time of
allocatees, who promptly throw themselves at the commit-
tee’s mercy. As well they should. The EC is also quick to
condemn for surplus by withholding that much money the
following year, a fact of life candidates have promised and
failed to circumvent for ages. All in all, small student
organizations have to walk a dangerous tightrope between
surplus and deficit, while SAB puts on a happy face and
promises that more money equals more entertainment.

Well, EC President Perkins said himself that times are
tough. Especially given the financial needs of Mock Con-
vention, everyone else, even the EC in its own reserves, is
having to do more with less, whether their predecessors
screwed up or not. SAB should be no exception.

 

A traditional time

It seems almost cliche to say it, but Homecoming is one
of the most traditional times of year. While living in
Lexington and studying at Washington and Lee means being
aware of the past every day, Homecoming is a physical link
with a past not easily forgotten. As the pace of change here
on campus proceeds, this year’s freshmen will not graduate
from the ‘‘same’’ school they began this fall, just as this
year’s graduates marvel at the changes since 1988. This
weekend reminds us that we are only the latest in an im-
mense, continuous chain that began nearly 250 years ago.

More importantly, we must realize that change has been
going on for those entire 250 years, and before we listen to
the doomsayers decrying the end of Washington and Lee as
we know it, let’s realize that the university has survived
countless waves of change, not to mention a few wars in its
time. Welcome back alums; observe and recognize what has
changed, as well as what has remained the same.

Quote of the Week

Taking on the Dartmouth Review is like wrestling with a
pig. Everybody gets dirty, and the pig likes it.
— Dinesh D’Souza, former editor of the Dartmouth Review

- OPINION

 

]

 

 

 

  
    
 
 

 

 

anita ! THis is SENATOR

KENNSOY. You pos doIdG VST

Geeat! veer UP THE GOOD

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1991

Special report:
Life after W&L

 

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

 

Wok ANd JvA&GE THOMAS
Wt @s wistoey! bio
You GOT MY “focunge” ?

THElS'S Moes wuses

Mowe}

 

 

. Hollins or Sweet Briar,

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley
Cathy Lopiccolo
Courtney Hall
Joshua Manning
Jay Plotkin
Fran Kefalas
Craig Burke
Leigh Allen
Tim Molloy
B.J. Gamboa

Associate Editor
News Editor

Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor
Entertainment Editor
Assignments Editor
Photo Editor
Cartoonist

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

If my journalistic instincts are correct, some young,
Jonny-come-lately, humor-writing upstart has replaced me
at the Phi and I am nothing more than a dim memory in
the drug-riddled minds of a few campus outcasts, such as
my old editor Chris Baradel, who now works in the
Alumni Office, and is still trying to figure out what I
mean when | say ‘‘journalistic instincts.’’ Whew! (The
Phi’s new humor writer may be good, but I'll bet he
can’t write a sixty-seven word opening sentence that says
absolutely nothing.)

Okay, kids. Please excuse the ravings of a Phi has-
been, but it’s the time of year when recent alumni
swagger into metro Lex with their lectures about the
cold, cruel world and attempt to make you feel guilty for
not enjoying every single second of your time at college.

I hate to fall into that same trap, but the real world
is cold and cruel and disappointing and boring, and why
don’t I just stop here and put a bullet through my head?
I'll tell you why. Because I’m looking forward to
swaggering into town on Homecoming to lecture you
students about how tough it is in the real world. Of
course, while the real world is cold and cruel, it’s also
filled with wild women who don’t care if people in the
Co-op talk about what they did over the weekend. So
maybe the real world isn’t that bad after all.

But all joking aside, I really have felt older since
graduating last spring. My back aches every morning.
When I listen to the radio, I can’t differentiate between
the songs and the commercials. My teeth are falling out.
Lately, even my Dad seems to be making sense. And
worst of all, I recently picked up an attractive woman
and was unable to sustain an...just kidding.

The actual truth is that college, with its exams,

research papers, and snarling professors, sucks compared
‘ to my real world. Naturally, I am unemployed and living
at home. I am ‘‘working on my book,”’ which is a rice
way of saying that I sleep until noon.
9 Actually, my life isn’t that care-free. I do do (fore-
shadowing pun) a little work around the house. Every
Sunday, for example, I walk around the backyard with a
large grocery bag and my trusty double-pronged scooping
implement and pick up the dog droppings that have
accumulated over the week — damn good thing I have
a liberal arts degree.

Homecoming queens and old alums

 

LET IT RIDE
By Chris Swann

 

I had planned to write a rather satiric article on
our Homecoming weekend, poking fun at all the
alcohol the returning alumni seem to consume and
how highly amused we are by their antics, but then
my dad called about the credit card bill. My dad
graduated from here in '63 and could very possibly
see any ridicule of alumni as something next to
secession from the South. So, | decided that maybe
I'd better tone it down since dad is making my
four-year college career possible. So, the following
is a completely fictionalized account of the
Homecoming gala and in no way reflects on any
actual W&L alumni. Sure, and the Homecoming
queen will be from Southern Sem...

As the autumn days slide by, and our grades
slide down proportionately, we dust off our nice
outfits from Foxfield and get ready for that most
mythical of our social events, Homecoming
weekend. Since our home is college (we live here
eight months out of the year), Homecoming for us
doesn’t mean a return to a familiar place but
another reason to drink and be merry. But for the
hundreds of alumni that come back to campus,
Homecoming revives memories of ‘‘When / was at
W&L...’” as men in their fifties disinter their old
fraternity boy lives, once more hanging in the halls
of their long-lost social order, showing off for the
students and their wives (who most likely went to
and don’t need an

Dean condemns
racist vandal

To all students:

I have just been informed that a poster
belonging to a student and located in the stu-
dent’s carrel, which read ‘‘Free South Africa’’
and pictured a black woman and a black man,
has been defaced by someone who wrote across
the top of the poster ‘‘Kill the Niggers.’’ I
hesitate to so baldly describe the defacement
because of its thoroughly vile nature, but it is
important that everyone in this law school com-
munity know and recognize the shocking nature
of the act. I do not now know the identity of the
person or persons who defaced the poster, and
who may have participated, perhaps with others,
in other instances of racist expression recently
directed at specific students. If anyone has any
information about the person or persons respon-
sible for these acts, I would like to be informed.

My purpose in writing immediately to all
students is to call upon the collective conscience
of this community to condemn in no uncertain
terms the repugnance of what has been done. The
defacement is an act of force, not of reason; an
act of hate or of hopeless ignorance, not of intel-
lect. It is, most importantly, an act of moral and
intellectual cowardice.

I would have thought that in this community
of talented and thoughtful people, no act of this
nature could occur; that respect for each of us as
individuals was indelibly imprinted in the values
and traditions of Washington and Lee. I am,
therefore, saddened and deeply disappointed. I am
also confident that all — or almost all — of us
are. This is not a time for rage, rage would be to
respond in kind and thereby to validate an
unforgivable act of intellectual and moral cowar-

 

education on the merits of W&L’s social system,
thank you very much).

The Homecoming football game is the one
golden opportunity for the Generals to shine,
mostly because no one shows up for the games
anyway. But at Homecoming, if you mention
“tailgate party’’, football fans are born overnight
and suddenly descend on the playing field like
locusts. There’s something almost ritual about
sneaking a flask into the stadium and joining your
friends in a screaming diatribe against the opposing
team. You are joined to a thousand other souls,
smelling of bourbon and fried chicken and
perfume, and it’s wonderful. And at Homecoming,
you're joined by alumni from the class of '42 who

Have fun, relax, enjoy
visiting with alumni, drink
and be merry, for Monday
we will all be hungover.

bellow and tum apoplectic along with the best of
them, shouting the same garbled curses at the
referees.

Of course, the real reason anyone bothered to
show up after last night’s party is the crowning of
the Homecoming queen. Sort of a local Miss
America pageant, although most of the girls at our
Homecoming are attending a reputable university
and don’t have to show off in a bathing suit.
Several qualities are needed to be crowned
Homecoming queen: a vibrant personality, a catchy
wit, a personal dedication to a cause of your

LETTERS

dice. It is instead a time for collective despair
and, at the same time, collective strength of
moral character.

Let this not happen again.

 

 

 

Randall P. Bezanson,
Dean of the Law School

EC erred in
not funding ACLU

To the Editor:

Due to the eagerness which W&L publica-
tions display for labeling people as liberal or,
even worse, Politically Correct, I begin this letter
with a disclaimer: I am not a member of the
ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union), and I
strongly disagree with almost everything it does.
However, the reasons for which the W&L chap-
ter was denied funding are weak and border on
hypocritical.

Executive Committee Member Jay Sterne is
quoted as saying that ‘‘only the Speak-Outs
really benefit the campus,’’ suggesting that the
various proposed speakers for the ACLU are not
worthy of funding. Yet, he later defends Amnes-
ty International because of its ability to build
awareness of ‘‘things outside Rockbridge Coun-
ty.’’ I don’t think that anyone would disagree
with the statement that speakers brought here by
the ACLU would present ideas very different
from the majority of things heard in Rockbridge
County. Anyone who attended Molly Irvins’
speech could testify that she presented a fresh
viewpoint and demonstrated an impressive aware-
ness of state and national politics.

The point of all this is to show that the EC
needs to look more closely at what they consider
worthwhile for this campus, and that the student

choice, tight-fitting clothes (just kidding, ladies).
The rivalry between various girls’ schools is
amusing to watch; just look at the sneers Hollins
girls carry for a female from Sweet Briar. After
all, the only reason the guys walk out with their
dates is to prevent them from physically assaulting
the other girls. Women can be so vicious.

The alumni, however, provide the real
entertainment. You hear snatches of old fraternity
songs; cheers you never bothered to learn being
shouted by guys old enough to be your grandfather
whom you know damn well didn’t memorize the
stupid things when they were in school...

The funny thing is, we love seeing these people
because they love seeing us. OK, maybe Sunday
morning after, to your profound embarrassment,
your Uncle Larry from the class of '66 drank a
fifth of Scotch and proceeded to dance like they
did twenty-five years ago, you want to disown
him, but he’s still family. Remember, these people
were just like you once. Maybe a different haircut,
maybe the social buzzwords were ‘‘cool’’ and
**groovy’’ instead of ‘‘key’’ and ‘‘sweet’’, but they
attended classes (sometimes with the same
professor, what a horrible thought), slept in the
library, agonized over exams, danced on the gym
floor at Fancy Dress, drove to Goshen in the
spring, went rope-swinging and skeet-shooting out
in the country, went ‘‘down the road,’’ and, yes,
probably went to Lee-Hi truck stop at 2 a.m. some
weekends. What goes around, comes around.

So, have fun, relax, enjoy visiting with alumni,
drink and be merry, for Monday we will all be
hungover.

body needs to monitor the EC. After all, how
can they know they’ve misjudged the student
body unless we tell them.

David Wilmington, °94

In praise of
administrators

To the Editor:

A few weeks ago we filed a complaint with
the president’s office and the Dean of Residence
Life. We were incredibly impressed with the
prompt, sincere attention that our problem was
given. Assistant to the President Thomas Litzen-
burg spoke with us that same day. Within 30
hours of filing this complaint, we were sent a
letter of apology from the president’s office and
had received a personal call from Dennis Man-
ning, assistant dean of students for residence life.
Later that week we met with Dean Manning,
further explaining our problem. Less than one
business day after our meeting, the problem was
entirely rectified.

The administration of this university has often
been the recipient of bad publicity; we feel they
do not deserve such negative comments. We
believe the administrators, like Thomas Litzen-
burg and Dennis Manning, are why Washington
and Lee is one of the nation’s best liberal arts
colleges. As long as W&L possesses a caring and
attentive faculty, we will remain a high quality
university.

Sincerely,

Laina E. Ewan
Gretchen L. Hayman
Heather M. Leonard
Laura A. Purcell

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1991

Page 3

 

 

EC allocates $18,000 to MC

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee completed its budget
Process on Monday by allocating funds for Mock
Convention and adding to the previous allocations
for Contact and the Student Activities Board.

MC received $18,000, which is $2,000 less than
its $20,000 funding request. EC President Giles
Perkins said the cut will probably not harm MC
much since the 1988 MC ended with a budget
surplus of $10,000.

EC members added $6,000 to the $49,500
already allocated for SAB. The organization came
in with a request for $62,945, which is $13,000
more than it received last year.

The reason for the increase was the SAB’s
plans to begin a movie and comedian series this
year.

SAB Treasurer Susan Wooton said, in order to

cope with the cut, the group would probably
decrease the number of events instead of
eliminating any entire series.

‘‘We may have a few less Pit bands or one
less comedian,’ Wooton said, ‘‘but we really
would like to have some variety this year with the
movies and comedians.’’

Special Events Chairman John Flippen said the
SAB will now go ahead with its plans to book a
“‘big name comedian,’ an event Flippen said
would have been ‘‘the first thing to go’’ if the
budget cut had been more significant.

Contact also received additional funding. The
EC added $3,000 to its previous allocation of
$22,000. The $25,000 total brings the group closer
to its original request of $26,950.

Perkins said Contact members had approached
him about adding funds so the group can sponsor
another speaker during the year.

Also included in this year’s budget are

$5,022.20 for the student body reserve, $2,000 for

 

Turnout
upsets
Heatley

By Paige Henke
Staff Reporter

 

 

Only 125 out of the 400 seniors
in the class of 1992 attended the Ca-
reer Development and Placement
meeting held at Lee Chapel three
waks ago.

The suprisingly low attendance at
this meeting presents a drastic con-
trast from the attendance at last
year’s meeting, which had 297
seniors present.

Rick Heatley, assistant dean of
students and the director of Career
Services, was upset by the low tur-
nout. He said that the economy was
so bad last year and job placement
was so scarce, that many students in
this year’s senior class have been
scared to face the employment issue.

He also said that ‘‘the pattern is
turning around and this year promises
to be better.’” Already 37 companies
have contacted him about interview-
ing Washington and Lee students for
employment positions. In the past,
Heatley said that no more than 28

 

By Thomas Eisenhauer

the EC working reserve, and $4,000 in an account
used by the EC for honor related costs.

Monday night’s allocations were added to the
total EC budget and the entire package approved.
The budget must be approved once more on
Monday before becoming official.

The additional allocations were made out of
funds from last year’s student body reserve surplus
of $14,150 and $5,258 was taken from the
Publications Board reserve of $9,258.

In other business, the EC announced it will be
taking applications this week for appointed
positions. Interviews will be held Monday.
Information on what positions are available will be
posted around campus or can be obtained by
contacting EC Secretary Caroline Wight.

Also, the EC will hear student opinions about
the proposed location of the addition to the Reeves
Center at Monday’s regular meeting. Perkins said
an EC opinion on the proposal might be given to
the administration.

 

 

 

 

companies have, expressed interest in
interviewing students so early in the
year. CDP provides W&L students
with free assistance from the beginn-
ing of the job search through actual
job placement.

Senior Nick Phillips said that he
went to the meeting and believed
“they didn’t present themselves in a
very appealing way. The meeting
was disorganized and boring.’’

‘It seems like all the companies

Staff Reporter

“4 Stiderits have to Clean ip théir parkitig in the Corral,”
said Director of Security Michaél Young. =
“Some people are inconsiderate about the way they
park,’’ Young said.
Young said the Corral can hold more cars than it does
now. He urged students to park closer together.
‘We would like to tighten it up in the Corral and get

Ivins says reform, not ‘doo-doo’

os .

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Thomas “Baner” Bane of university security points to the type of parking that fills the Corral at less
than capacity.

Poor parking clogs Corral

as many people as possible in there,’’ Young said.

Since university parking regulations do not mandate
how close together cars must be parked, Thomas ‘‘Baner’’
Bane, traffic control officer, said students should try to
help each other. See ee

“We have students that pay for a sticker and can’t
find a space,’’ Bane said. ‘‘And then we have people who
take up two and three spaces.”’

“Just get a little closer to each other and remember
that everyone else paid $25 for a parking sticker too,”
Bane said.

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

 

Russian Flick

The Russian studies program will
present the film Twelve Chairs, a
Soviet production in Russian with
English subtitles, on Thursday,
Oct. 17 at 7:30 p.m. in 221 Com-
merce School. This film is con-
sidered the major cinematic fore-
runner of glasnost. For further
information, call Prof. Greta Mc-
Caughrin, ext. 8826.

Internships

All students are invited to a
workshop entitled ‘‘Internships
and Summer Jobs’’ on Monday,
Oct. 14 at 4 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Center, room 109. Resour-
ces, application procedures, and
correspondence related to obtain-
ing summer employment will be
discussed.

Senior Resumes

Seniors wishing to submit
resumes for companies pre-select-
ing in November recruitment must
submit resumes to the CDP office
by 4 p.m. on Tuesday, Oct. 15.

Mock Con

Political surveys for the 1992
Mock Convention are in the Co-
op and library lobby. You don’t
have to be involved with MC to
fill one out. You don’t even have
to be a politics major. All you
need to have is an opinion.

Film Society

The Film Society will meet on
Thursday, Oct. 17 at 7 p.m. in
Commerce School, room 301.

 

Pictures
Underclassmen pictures for the
Calyx will be taken Oct. 15, 16,
and 17. There is a $12 sitting fee
for those who have not paid. The
schedule is as follows: freshmen
— Tuesday, Oct. 15 from 10
a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and 1-4 p.m;
sophomores — Wednesday, Oct.
16 from 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m;
juniors — Wednesday, Oct. 16
from 1-4 p.m. Make-ups will be
on Thursday, Oct. 17.

IU in the GHQ

The Independent Union will have
a Homecoming party in the GHQ
from 5-7 p.m. on Saturday, Oct.
12. There will be music and
munchies. Anyone over 21 can
buy beer. All are welcome.

Big Bro/Sis

Interested in being a Big Brother,
Big Sister, or tutor? Applications
are available outside Ms. Calkins’
office. If you have any questions,
call Andy McGuire at 463-1082
or Brandon Neblett at 464-9642.

Found

The night after Tear Night a pearl
bracelet was found in the KA
house. Call 464-1683.

Short Fiction

The Story College Short Fiction
Competition, sponsored by Smith
Corona, is open to all college
students. The competition offers
$2,500 in prizes and a chance for
publication in Story. Send an
SASE to Story, 1507 Dana Ave.,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45207.

 

 

that are coming [for interviews] are
only looking for accounting and ad-
ministration majors,’ said another
senior, Elizabeth Fox.

Several students are pleased with
the attention they receive from CDP.

Chris Owen, a senior, said CDP
has helped him a great deal in setting
up interviews.

John Hunter, a junior, said he
went to CDP last year to get a sum-
mer internship and ‘‘they were very
helpful.

“It’s definitely worth going by,”’
said Hunter.

 

By Missy Curtis
Staff Reporter

 

Molly Ivins, political humorist and
columnist for the Dallas Times
Herald, spoke Oct. 3 in Lee Chapel
to commemorate the bicentennial of
the Bill of Rights.

Her speech, entitled ‘‘Freedom
Fighters In Our Time,’’ was a discus-
sion on her opinions of today’s politi-
cal status based on her experience as
a journalist over the past 20 years.

Ivins’ views on the current state

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

 

 

of the U.S. government were of
substantial dissatisfaction.

‘*The Declaration of Independence
is a heritage of enormous value that
is going down the tubes,’’ Ivins said.

She also expressed her disgust for
low voter turnout and some U.S.
leaders.

The United States ‘‘has had two
presidents in the past 20 years, Ri-
chard Nixon and Ronald Reagan, who
have treated the Constitution like a
box of kitty litter,’’ Ivins said.

Ivins said she believes the U.S.
government should be in a state of

‘‘perpetual reform,’’ where things are
constantly being changed and fixed.
‘‘Government is not a problem
or a solution. Government is a tool
like a hammer that can be used to
build or to destroy,’’ Ivins said.

In a_ follow-up question and
answer session Ivins voiced opinions
on prominent political figures.

When asked if she considered
President Bush to be a true Texan,
Ivins responded, ‘‘Real Texans don’t
wear blue slacks with little green
whales on them or describe trouble as
deep doo-doo.”’

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

Kent Gregory, ’92, Louisville,
Ky. — ‘‘A good personality.’’

 

 

Jon Stiehl, ’°93, Columbia, Md.
= ‘A camivore.”’

Abby Kane, ’94, Los Angeles,
Calif. — ‘‘Whiskers.’’

Paul Howe, ’93, West Newbury,
Mass. — ‘‘Uncontrollable per-
spiration.”’

D’Souza speaks

 

By LaKeisha Townes
Staff Reporter

 

‘In my book, I describe a silent
revolution that is occuring on Ameri-
can [college] campuses. There are
several names for this revolu-
tion...pluralism, multiculturalism,
diversity,’’ said Dinesh D'Souza,
author of the controversial book,
Illiberal Education: The Politics of
Sex and Race on Campus.

D’Souza spoke to Washington and
Lee students in Lee Chapel Tuesday
night. His lecture focused on his
book and public reaction to it.

D’Souza began by speaking about
what he called ‘‘a kind of new cul-
tural imperialism,’’ and ‘‘proportional
representation’ on college campuses.

D’Souza researched six institu-
tions: University of California at
Berkeley, Stanford University, Har-
vard University, Howard University,
Duke University, and the University
of Michigan.

During his study, D’Souza said
that he found admissions policies that
were preferential to minorities and
women, which he said might ‘‘mis-
place’ individuals in a curriculum
which may be too advanced.

While D’Souza agreed that there
are many valid arguments for affirma-
tive action, he said that this policy is
causing a ‘‘new segregation,’’ and is

 

What characteristics do you not look for in a
Homecoming Queen?

 

D'Souza
creating even more racial tension.

This hurts those being given pref-
erential treatment, D’Souza said,
because they may be unable to com-
pete with other students, and will end
up feeling inferior.

D’Souza admitted that these prob-
lems can’t be solved overnight, but
said that ‘‘continual ignorance’’ of
the problems won’t make them go
away.

 

 

 

John Leggette, 93, Malvern, Pa.
- ‘A good reputation.’

Charlotte Long, °95, ‘Tyler,
Texas — ‘‘Someone who's real
snotty; someone who would ex-
pect to get Homecoming Queen.”’

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4

 

Hull’s continues the tradition

 

By Randy Devere
Staff Reporter

 

The local Drive-in. Moonlit summer
nights. Children playing on the grassy hill-
side, Teenage couples tucked away in the
back seat of a car. Families lounging in the
back of a flat-bed truck. Double features.
Popcorn for 80 cents; hamburgers for $1.40.

A scene straight out of ‘“‘Happy Days?’’
Perhaps, but in these days of the multi-
screen Enormoplex, a family-operated, neig-
hborhood drive-in still thrives. And it’s right
on Route 11 in Lexington.

Hull’s Drive-In, owned and operated by
Sebert and Effie Hull of Lexington, has
been a local landmark for over 40 years.
Bought in 1957 by Mr. Hull, the Drive-In is
now one of only two such establishments in
southwestern Virginia.

Hull’s closest competitor is the Starlite in
Christiansburg. In the state, scarcely two
dozen drive-ins continue to cater to those
who like some fresh air with their Cokes
and JuJu Bees.

Hull grew up on drive-ins, and worked

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book ba

Lexington Bike

130 S. Main St.

STALLS FOR RENT

Modern 3 - stall Horse Barn with paddock and pasture. 3% miles from Lex-

ington. (703) 463-6564.

3 W. Nelson St., Lexington

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

at one during his teenage-years. His love for
the business took him to Buena Vista, where
he helped run a theater for seven years.

Then, one night in 1957, Hull accom-
panied a friend to the old Lee-Hi Drive-In.
‘I don’t even remember how we got in,”
says Hull. ‘‘After we watched the movie for
about 20 minutes, my friend asked me if I
wanted to buy the Drive-In. It sounded like
a good idea, and 5 weeks later, I was runn-
ing the place.”’

Every kind of movie imaginable has
flashed across the big screen that backs up
to Route 11, from B-movie horror and
spaghetti westerns, to current features **Point
Break’’ and ‘‘Only The Lonely.’’ However,
it hasn’t always been easy. The drive-in
used to show movies all week, but has now
gone to a Friday-Saturday-Sunday schedule.
The Hulls even tried to run the theater year
round, but found that customers didn’t enjoy
snowstorms as much as warm breezes. They
now operate from March to November.

The Hull’s have watched the culture
change and generations pass, factors that
often turn drive-ins into nothing but wisps
of nostalgia.

‘People think that TV was the biggest

 
     

Shop

463-7969

464-6666

Instant Shoe Repair
Half Soles in 45 min/Satin shoes dyed in 1 hr.

 

 

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
| E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

 

Valley 7iueVahie Hardware

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

 

Style Writer®
is an ink-jet
printer that
delivers laser-
quality print-
ing (360 dots
per inch)

It’s not much
larger than
an average
textbook,
and it
weighs

Sun. 1:00-5:00
463-2186

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
    
    
   
  
   
     
    
   
   
   
   
 
   
   

 

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Shoes
Clothing

Accessories
23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10-5:30

Deavers Alley Business Services

TERM PAPERS

Resumes, Cover Letters & Envelopes
Laser Printing and FAX Service

203 N. Main Street

only five
* pounds.

 
  
 
 

= Oastia);
nL,
e )

  

463-9455

 

Pledge sheets available in

 

  

SIGS STRIDES

MOVE-A-LONG-A-THON
to be held
Sunday, October 13th

from the Harris Teeter parking lot
at 1:30 p.m.
Registration will begin at 12:30 p.m.
Prizes awarded to those collecting the most in pledges
GRAND PRIZE: 3 days, 2 nights at Massanutten Resort

*Washington and Lee Coop
“Virginia Military Institute, Lejeune Hall
*Dominion Bank

For more information call: 463-3533

Sponsored b AMERICAN , |
' ” SP CANCER fi CCanus |
SOCIETY ’ MINISTRY

 

 

  

The Apple " .

W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1991

 

 

 

 

blow to the drive-in business," says Hull.
"But the thing that hurt us the most was
probably day-light savings time."

Despite those unavoidable problems, the
Hull’s have only once in 35 years been
forced to cancel a show.

‘One time during the seventies a transfor-
mewr in the projector blew,’’ explains Hull.
‘We didn’t have an extra, so we had to
send everyone home.”’

Hull’s has proven so durable that even a
bolt of lightening couldn't prevent the show
from going on. ‘‘One night in the early
sixties, during a thunder storm, lightning hit
the screen and left a hole about 12 feet
wide,”’ Hull recalls with a laugh. ‘‘We still
finished the movie, though.”’

Hull said that business has been on the
upswing this year. The low prices ($3 for
adults, $1 for children) often attract as many
as 200 people a night.

Aside from the low prices, Hull remains
somewhat at a loss to describe the con-
tinuing appeal of the drive-in.

“I guess people like to be outside,’’ |
Hull says. ‘‘They like to be able to eat what
they want, smoke, and sit on the grass. I
guess that just doesn’t change.’’

 

Hull makes repairs around the drive-in he and his wife own.

 

 

_ Sdve

money on
Macintosh

 

Here’s the deal: We've paired going. This offer is available only
some of the most popular for a limited time. See your autho-
Apple® Macintosh® computers _rized Apple campus reseller today
with some of the most popular —_for details.

Apple printers. Buy one of these And discover the power
combinations, and save big of Macintosh. The power <<
bucks. Got it? Good. Now get —_ tobe your best®

Ela ri mere etl Macintosh LC Eee med

 

  

Save the most when you buy a high-perfor
mance Macintosh Ilsi computer with either
an Apple Personal LaserWriter LS o1
an Apple Personal LaserWriter NT printer.

Save when you buy an affordable
Macintosh Classic® computer with either
an Apple StyleWriter or an Apple Personal
LaserWriter® LS printer.*

Save even more when you buy a Macintosh LC
computer—our most affordable color system—
with either an Apple StyleWriter
or an Apple Personal LaserWriter LS printer."

     

Apple StyleWriter

Apple Personal
LaserWniter LS

Apple StyleWriter Apple Personal

LaserWriter LS

Apple Persona Apple Persona
LaserWriter LS iserWy

 

*Offer applies only to a Macintosh Classic with a built-in hard disk
“Monitor sold separately

For further information visit
Tucker Hall Room 215A |
and ask for Mac McCloud, or call 463-8844

© 1991 Apple Computer, In Apple, the Apple logo, LaserWriter, Mac intosh, StyleWriter, and “The power to be your best” are registered trade rk

Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Ine

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi
The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1991

Cancer is a word we forget all
too often today.

I find it difficult to think about
myself, because my grandmother died
at a relatively young age, of cancer.

We all speak of her fondly, espe-
cially at holidays. For my own mot-
her, it is even harder because she
thinks of her mother each day.

We all wish she had more time.
All those years she deserved to live.

It is sad that so many of us have
a grandmother, uncle, or even a
member of our immediately family
who has cancer. Even here on the
campus, there are people we see
every day who have or had cancer.

Anne Zeigler, secretary to Dean
Peppers, suffered from malignant
melanoma 17 years ago.

She went to the doctor to have a
lump removed in her breast.

As an afterthought, she asked the
doctor to take out a three-year-old
black mole on the back of her left
leg.

The doctor ran a biopsy on both
areas. The lump was merely a cyst,
and ironically, the mole was malig-
nant.

“The Lord works in mysterious
ways,’’ Anne said.

The doctor also said that her leg
needed surgery to check the extent of
the cancer. He wasn’t sure if she

would have to lose her leg.

“‘The next two days after. the
news were the hardest. I left the
doctor’s office and the first thing I
did was take a drive. I drove to a
mountain in Buena Vista. I cried
and cried and cried,’’ Anne said.

After the initial shock, Anne

| W&LIFE

Page 5

 

Lecce etelicreeniatnieiieenenneesicieeereneneeeeee

Making Strides against cancer

“‘The most important thing is to
get checked by the doctor regularly,’’
said Anne.

Anne said that year after year she
reminds her friends to get check-ups.
Her doctor is swamped with these
patients, all anxious to fight off can-
cer.

 

FIRST PERSON SINGULAR

By Maureen Levey

 

realized there wasn’t much she could
do. She would have to face the si-
tuation.

Fortunately, the doctors removed
her cancer without many problems,
but since the cancer had spread, she
was in bed for a month after surgery.

After that time Anne was able to
visit her doctor’s office. He said that
Anne would have to learn to walk all
over again.

“I hopped off the doctor’s table
and fell flat on my face,’’ Anne said
with a chuckle. She knew it would
take awhile.

After learning to use a walker,
and doing much therapy, Anne was
back to work in under four months.

Anne came out from her battle
with cancer. There are survivors like
her with determination and luck.

The doctor asks many of them,
who sent you?

And he knows it was Anne.

There’s nothing wrong with going
to a physician regularly. It is also
important to know that some people
aren’t as lucky as Anne.

There are ways to help and it is
SO easy.

A perfect opportunity for you
could be this Sunday:

On Oct. 13, the third annual Mak-
ing Strides event for the Rockbridge
Community Unit of the American
Cancer Society will take place at 1:30
pm.

Beginning at the Harris Teeter
parking lot on West Nelson Street,
cancer patients, family members,
friends, and the public will obtain
sponsors to walk, run, bike and even

roller blade across a set course.

This event combines a hopeful
mesage that cancer can be beaten
with a fun oppotunity to raise money
for the society’s programs of
research, education and patient ser-
vices.

Honorary Co-Chairmen are E.G.
‘*Buck”’ Leslie of W&L’s Athletic
Department, recovering from chronic
leukemia and recent spleen surgery,
and George Cunningham, still running
marathons despite the removal of his
larynx years ago.

Registration begins at 12:30 pm,
and will cost five dollars.

Pledge sheets are available at the
Co-op. The course is approximately
five miles, and winds from Harris
Teeter, through Lexington to VMI
Island, up the Chessie Trail, by Dore-
mus Gym and up Washington Street
back to Harris Teeter.

The are many prizes for the event
donated by local merchants as well as
the Grand Prize of a Romance Week-
end at the Massanutten
Resort west of Harrisonburg for the
participant raising the most money.

It sounds like fun and it will be.
Homecoming activities , will
be over, and this ‘‘Move-Along-A-
Thon’’ can be a success. I urge you
to participate because cancer patients
need your support.

Exchange student wants his MTV

 

 

Colonnade Crossword
ACROSS 1
1 Stringed
instrument 13

5 Garbage-laden
vessel

9 Leave port

13 To shelter

14 Hint

15 River in Italy

16 Actress
Thompson

17 Appraiser

19 Italian island

20 TV shows

22 Female warrior

24 Inclined way

25 Thailand
formerly

26 Strangers

29 Intern’s
workplace

33 Painter Claude

34 Abductor of
Helen

35 Grow old

36 So be it! 1

37 Warning device

38 Wingless insect

39 Sailor

40 Gets ashen

6

   

©1991 Tribune Media Services, Inc
All Rights Reserved

10/10/91
, Last Week’s Answers:

41 Fail in school 9 Deli meat

42 Squawk box 10 A state: abbr.
44 Glides 11 —- China

45 Bakery item 12 Diving bird

46 Wrongful act 18 Sultana for one

 

By Brian McClung
Sef? Reporter

 

Alasdair McGowan, a 20-year-old Oxford
graduate, is here at Washington and Lee as part of
an exchange program. His most embarrassing
moment occured just a short time after he arrived
in Lexington.

‘“‘The second night here, I needed a
screwdriver to fix the plug in my stereo. I knocked
on [my roommate’s] door hoping that he’d have a
screwdriver and basically he was stark naked
standing behind the door with his girlfriend.’’

McGowan has found W&L to a be an interest-
ing, if sometimes strange, place to attend school.

He said that here there is more of an emphasis
on the social aspect of college, which he believes
is an ‘‘equally valid reason’ for going to a univer-
sity.

The differences between Oxford and W&L are
many. ‘‘Here you have a class-based system. In
Oxford the emphasis is upon a tutorial system.
You'll talk to the teacher with one or two other

  

students and you'll give him your essay and he
tells you what he thinks. You more or less teach
yourself at Oxford,’’he said.

McGowan enjoys America for several reasons,
but best of all are the women. ‘‘The girls are
absolutely gorgeous. They’re all so generally blon-
de and beautifully tanned and looking incredibly
fit. It’s very flattering for the men,’’ he said.

McGowan finds that the main difference bet-
ween the United States and Scotland are the
number of choices. ‘*You go to a grocery store
and you get 50 different brands of cereal. You get
like 5 or 10 at home. And cable TV is fantastic.
We have four stations. I love MTV.’’

He believes the traditions at W&L are interest-
ing. ‘‘The Honor System engenders a feeling of
mutual trust and you can generally be more relaxed
and a greater sense of community is fostered as a
result,’’ he said.

“I’m very stuck by the amount of tradition that
is here. There seems to be a tradition for every
social activity. Like when you go to a football
game and you wear a shirt and tie, that’s
ridiculous,’’McGowan said.”

Meta OL

 

HARRIS TEETER MEANS

Smithfield

Sliced BaconB&

909

LIMIT 5 LBS.
WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

 

*REDUCED*
rT NA

C4:

oD

   
 

‘*You should always make a conscious choice
to follow the tradition and not follow it blindly so
that tradition doesn’t become just a means to
conformity,’’he said.

McGowan also said that. ‘‘There’s a real
tendency towards conformity here. There’s not as
much individuality compared to home,’’he said.
He said Americans all tend to dress, talk, and act
the same.

He has noticed that Robert E. Lee is ‘‘getting
very close to being almost a deity.

‘‘He does serve as a role model and Lee’s
example and the way he led his life and the values
he held seem to run straight through the university.
It gives you some benchmark by which to set your
performance here.”’

Now that Rush is over he commented that ‘‘it
seems to me there is too much pressure put on
people here to join a fraternity and to become part
of this general male bonding experience.

‘*It seems they are more drinking buddies rather
than soulmates,’’ he said.

McGowan plans to go into politics in Scotland

’ eventually.

47 Take on 21 — and rave
50 Great confusion 23 Atlas items
54 Burden 25 Painful spots
55 Sadness 26 Fine fiddle
57 Imprecation 27 ‘Death of a
58 Doing nothing Salesman”
59 Bobby and name
safety 28 Unreactive
60 ""— Karenina’ 29 Seraglio
61 Makes lace 30 Ankiebone
62 Brink 31 G-man or T-man
63 Sports group 32 Plumbing
problems
DOWN 34 Aviator
1 Fastener 37 Holy
2 Winglike 38 5A e.g.
3 Make over 40 Baby buggy
4 Acolor 41 Shape

5 Gets away fast

43 Works for piano 48 Bubbly drink

52 Sicilian mount

 

 

 

 

6 Vise 44 Unrefined 49 Add seasoning 53 Pretense
7 Baseball events 46 Strip of leather 50 Skidded 56 Unclose to a
8 Small 47 Descended 51 Path poet
Rt. 5, Box 379 BOBBY BERKSTRESSER
Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant
703-463-3478 1-800-768-LEHI

 

Pa

 

Sparkle
er Towels

 

 

HT
bee Cream

 

 

ri toe
by A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tt
NA

 

 

 

 

6 PACK
16 OZ. NRB.

°1.79

 

 

2 Liter Bottle Diet Pepsi,

Pepsi Cola
ft. cow”

719

 

 

snitiettiinaieiiiaall

 

 

 

 

Prices Effective Through October 15, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, October 15, 1991, Ir ngton Store Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accep t Federal Food Stamps.
 

 

 

This week’s scores:
Cross Country - vs. RC, EMC, Shepherd
Football - Randolph-Macon 27, W&L 0
Soccer(M) - L- R-MC 1-0, L- Roanoke 1-0
Soccer(W) - L- Gettysburg 3-2
Volleyball - L-EMC, L- Roanoke
Water Polo - in Southern Conference Tourney

 

 

 

S

 

Che Bing-tun Phi

PORTS

 

 

Next week’s games:
Cross Country - Men at Catholic, Lynchburg
Football - H- vs. Davidson
Men's soccer - H-vs. Greensboro, at EMC
Women’s soccer - H-vs. Emory, at Hollins
Volleyball - H-vs. R-MWC, Goshen, at BC
Water Polo - at EWPA Tournament

 

 

 

PAGE 6

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, WATER POLO

Polo mentally

tough in

By Andrew Fox
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team entered the Southem Con-
ference Tournament this past weekend
at Twombly Pool determined to im-
prove on its 5-3 record.

Though the Generals lost two of
their four matches, the team showed
extraordinary mental awareness in
each match.

‘The team has a very good men-
tal makeup which greatly pleases me
at this point in the season,’’ said
head coach Page Remillard. ‘‘Due to
this, we feel we will be considered a
very dangerous opponent by other
teams down the road.”’

The improved mental performance
by the Generals was apparent in wins
over Dayton, 7-4, and Hampden-Syd-
ney, 15-2. The Generals’ defense
combined for 25 steals while allowing
only 6 goals.

Much of the defensive success can
be attributed to sophomore goalie P.J.
Waicus, who had 20 blocks, and
senior All-American Alan Herrick
who had 10 steals.

Both Herrick and senior Will
Davis carried the offensive load. Both
scored eight goals apiece for the tour-
nament.

‘For going 2-2,’’ said Davis. ‘‘we
appear to be playing with poise and
confidence.’’

Remillard said the teams’ im-
proved play was a direct result of the
leadership put forth by the senior

tourney

players so far this season.

‘‘The leadership from the senior
class is excellent,’’ he said. ‘‘I hope
it will stay with the younger players
after they graduate.’’

The experience of veteran players
Herrick, Davis, Stu Towns, and John
Kannapell proved invaluable in the
Generals’ win over rival Dayton and
their hard fought loss to Arkansas-
Little Rock.

Against Dayton, W&L relied on
three goals from Herrick and two
from Kannapell to outscore their op-
ponent 5-0 in the final period to
ensure the win..

Offensive production continued
against UA-LR. W&L jumped out to
a 7-1 lead in the first half.

‘‘We caught a sleeping giant that
awoke in the fourth quarter,’’ said
Remillard.

Indeed the Trojans rallied to out-
score W&L 5-0 in the final period to
secure the comeback victory, includ-
ing the game-winner in the final 10
seconds.

Despite the setback, Remillard felt
the team played good, clean, and
aggressive polo.

Next week, the Generals travel to
Providence, Rhode Island to compete
in the EWPA Northern Tournament.

Unfortunately, the W&L Fall
Classic, which was to be held the
following weekend at Twombly Pool,
has been canceled due to withd-
rawals by Navy and Johns Hopkins.

Remillard said he hopes to
schedule a one game contest with
another Virginia team to fill the gap.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Senior quarterback Fred Renneker sneaks his way into the
end zone in last year’s Homecoming win against Hampden-
Sydney. Renneker will again try to lead the Generals to a
Homecoming win, this year against Davidson.

 

 

Volleyball struggles in ODAC play +) wo lead

 

By Rob Robinson
Staff Reporter

 

After winning two of three games
in the Maryville College Tournament
two weekends ago, the Washington
and Lee volleyball team struggled
against several Old Dominion Athletic
Conference opponents.

Guilford topped W&L in three
straight games to even the Generals’
ODAC record at 1-1. Senior Mena
McGowin led the W&L effort with
six kills. Freshman Michele Ralston
handed out 21 assists, and junior
Leslie Hess had eight digs.

‘‘We started well but fell apart,”’
said head coach Susan Dittman. ‘‘We
had several dumb errors on serve. We
basically didn’t show up.’’

The poor outing quelled the

momentum of a strong showing at
Maryville.
“The Generals won their tourna-
ment opener by beating Ashbury 15-
13 and 15-6. After the win, Maryville
proved to be a rude host, topping the
Generals 15-6, 15-7. W&L regrouped
to earn a tough win over Oglethorpe
15-12, 10-15, 15-11.

McGowin registered 20 kills for
the tournament, and Ralston added 45
assists in the three matches. Hess
finished with 18 kills, including a
team-high 14 against Oglethorpe, and
added 21 digs. Sophomore Tara
Burns added 11 kills and 20 digs for
the tournament.

‘‘Maryville was our first tourney
in the South,’’ Dittman said. ‘‘I felt
we made a good showing. We had

ODAC rematch for

 

By Sarah Gilbert
Staff Reporter

 

After a disappointing loss at Get-
tysburg Saturday, the Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team is looking
ahead to today’s game at Roanoke.

Senior Katie Seeman and soph-
omore Angie Carrington each scored
a goal to give the Generals a 2-1
first half lead, but they were held
scoreless in the second half and lost
3-2,

‘We played a team on Saturday
that was out to upset us, and they
ended up doing it,’’ said head coach
Janine Hathorm,

Though she felt that several play-

SERVIGTAR.

ers did not play their best, she said
that Seeman and sophomore Aspen
Yawars played well. ‘‘They both
stood out in my mind as having a
good game,’’ she said.

Hathorn says her team wasn’t
quite ready to play against Gettys-
burg. ‘I think we weren't ready,”’
she said. ‘‘The players just didn’t
realize that this non-conference game
was very critical to us.

‘We just had a bad day Saturday.
It’s a hard way to learn a lesson
sometimes. It’s just one of those
games that sort of gets you,’’ she
said.

Roanoke, a long-time W&L rival,
is the next opponent today at 4 p.m.

LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 South Main St., Lexington, VA 24450

463-2242

FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND EXCELLENT BUSINESS EXPE-
RIENCE!! Openings available for individuals or student organiza-
tions to promote the country’s most successful SPRING BREAK

   

tours. Call Inter-Campus Programs 1-800-327-6013.

 

   

MMM

&

 

MMA

FASTEST RESUMES IN TOWN!!

24 hour turn-around for professional quality resumes
OPEN SATURDAY MORNINGS
PHONE: 463-1712 + FAX #: 463 - 6918
125 W. NELSON ST, + LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA + ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

a

 

 

some real well-rounded performan-
ces."'

Dittman was especially pleased
with Ralston’s play. ‘‘She’s doing
real well in a new offense.’’

After the Guilford game, the
Generals fell to Eastern Mennonite,
the two-time defending ODAC cham-
pions, in three tough games and then
lost a frustrating match to Roanoke
on Tuesday.

The Generals will look to get
back on the winning track during
Homecoming. W&L will play Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College on
Friday night and Goshen Saturday
morning.

— Editor's note: This story was
originally scheduled to run in last
week's Phi. My apologies to the vol-
leyball team for its omission.

SOCCer

in Salem. The Generals, 4-3, 4-1 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, are looking to improve their
record against perhaps its toughest
opponent.

Last time the two teams met was
in the 1990 ODAC Championship
game. Roanoke won in four over-
times 2-1.

‘‘Roanoke is a very good team,
and it’s going to take a lot of heart
and desire to win the game. We have
a lot of heart,’’ she said. ‘‘If we're
ready, we’ll be there, but if we’re not
prepared, it could be interesting.’’

Sunday, the Generals entertain
South region powerhouse. Emory on
Liberty Hall Field.

men past
three teams

By Jacob Kimball
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
cross country team, paced by junior
Bo Hannah, took top honors in Satur-
day’s first home meet of the year that
began with an extra competitor.

While W&L expected to run
against Roanoke and Shepherd, Eas-
tem Mennonite showed up unexpec-
tedly. W&L was quick to oblige all
three teams, running to a 20-40 win
over the competition.

Hannah established himself as
W&L’s top runner, leading the team
with his third straight week. Hannah
ran the course in 27:53 and was
alone as he crossed the finish line.

Teammate Charles Edwards was
next. The senior finished second
overall with a time of 28:34. W&L’s
one-two punch finished more than 31
seconds before the rest of the field as
the Generals won easily. Roanoke and
Shepherd did not have a runner in
the top sixteen.

Keith Rinn was the third finisher
for the team as he was fourth overall
with a time of 29:24. The W&L top
five also included David Phillips with
30:20, and Lee Parker at 30:33.

Head coach John Tucker continues
to see improvement in the team as
they prepare for their toughest com-
petition to date. Saturday’s meet at
Catholic will also feature Lynchburg,
the defending Old Dominion Athletic
Conference champions.

W&L will hope to show its depth
and send a message to Lynchburg
that a repeat in 1991 is not a given.

SPRING BREAK: Cancun, Bahamas from $259.00 includes
roundtrip air, 7 nights hotel, parties, free admission, hotel taxes

and more! Organize a small
BEACH IT.

cudiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

» BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

group. Earn free trip. 1(800)

 

$SEASY MONEY!
! will pay $25 for your phone
book. Call Lee Ramsey Collect at
(615) 577-7237.

 

October 10, 1991

Herring, Generals
break in new course

 

By Jacob Kimball
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
cross country team finished ahead of
three other teams Saturday in the first
meet run on the newly re-designed
home course.

Eastern Mennonite was the overall
winner. The overall scores were EMC
19, W&L 48, Roanoke College 62,
and both Lynchburg and Shepherd
did not have complete team scores.
EMC was a surprise competitor, and
tumed out to be the class of the
field, although W&L picked up three
wins on the day.

The Generals top finisher was
Kim Herring, whose time of 22:06

was the second fastest recorded by a
General on a home course and good
enough for fifth overall. Nicole
Casteel also turned in a strong perfor-
mance, placing tenth overall and
second on the team with a time of
Zit,

Sue Duetsch was close behind in
24:26 and 12th overall. The top five
was rounded out by Teresa Lamey
and Brandi Henderson who fininshed
close together at 25:02 and 25:10,
respectively.

Feeling the effects of hard training
in the past few weeks, the Generals
welcome the chance for a breather.
W&L will not be in action on Home-
coming weekend. The Generals will
next run in the Virginia State Meet in
Williamsburg on October 19.

Men’s soccer fights
through two 1-0 losses

 

By Sean O’Rourke
Staff Reporter

 

Before their games with Roanoke
College and Randolph-Macon, the
Washington and Lee men’s soccer
team was poised to make a serious
run at the regular season Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference title.

But, after two heart-breaking 1-0
losses, the Generals are fighting for
team unity.

According to head coach Rolf
Piranian and a number of players,
there has been a lot of talking during
practices and games. Players are
getting on each other and it’s show-
ing on the field.

“*I considered last week a total
waste,’’ Piranian said. ‘‘I wasn’t hap-
py with the practices or with the
players’ attitudes, There was a lot of
talking and the Roanoke loss was the
result.”’

Junior Greg Williams saw things
the same way.

“Our problems aren’t physical.
There was a lot of griping during the
game. There's a lack of friendship on
this team, and there’s no respect
between players.”

However, the lack of unity had
nothing to do with the team’s offen-
sive drought. In both losses, the
offense had plenty of scoring chan-
ces, but they just couldn’t come
through with a score.

“It’s still a combination of mental

and technical problems,’’ said Pir-
anian. ‘‘We have the talent, we just
have to work it out.”’

But mental breakdowns aren’t an,
exclusive problem for the offense, the /
defense has been encountering short
lapses of concentration that have
resulted in opponents’ goals.

In both the Roanoke and Ran-
dolph-Macon games, the only goal
scored in each game was because of
a lapse in defensive play.

‘‘We dominated the first half,’’
said junior Winthrop Allen of the
Randolph-Macon game. ‘‘But with
five minutes to go in the half we
gave up a cheap goal because we lost
our concentration. Then in the sec-
ond half I think we just panicked and
went for too much too soon.”’

Piranian, despite the frustrating
losses, hasn’t given up.

“‘We still have what it takes to
win,’’ he said. ‘‘Now we just have to
put it all together and play better
soccer that we’ve been playing.”’

After a 3-0-2 start, W&L’s record
now stands at 4-3-2, 2-2-0 in ODAC
play. For the Generals to host a first
round game in the tournament they
must win their last two ODAC games

against Eastern Mennonite and
Lynchburg.
But up first is a tough Greensboro

team on Saturday at 12 p.m. at Liber-
ty Field, followed by a Wednesday
game against Eastern Mennonite, also
at home.

R-MC blanks W&L 27-0

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee football
team continues to have a rough time
of it in 1991.

W&L fell to Randolph-Macon 27-
0 on the road last Saturday to fall to
0-4 on the season and 0-2 in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

Randolph-Macon scored in the
game’s first minute to take control
early. Kerrell Bryant ran 46 yards to
the W&L three-yard line and scored
on the next play for a 7-0 Yellow
Jackets lead. Bryant ran for 107 yards
to lead the R-MC attack, which am-
massed 331 yards on the ground.

Steve Dodd had an 18-yard touch-
down catch and the Yellow Jackets
got a break when they recovered a
blocked punt in the end zone for a
third touchdown.

W&L caught one bad break on
the day and lost more than the game.
Senior linebacker Trey Cox broke a
bone in his foot and will miss at
least four weeks. Another injured

General, junior Sean Gatewood, is
expected to retum to action after
missing two games with a knee in-
jury.
The Generals did get a strong
defensive effort despite surrendering
27 points. Junior Lyle Smith led the
way with a career-high 27 tackles.
Sophomore linebacker Grant Rea,
who replaced Cox, also had a career-
high with 15 tackles. Senior John
McCallum added 14, including a
quarterback sack.

Junior punter Bob Ehret also had
a strong, but busy, afternoon. Ehret
punted 10 times for a 42.9-yard aver-
age, including a season-high 60 yard
effort.

W&L will look to rebound from
the tough loss this weekend against
Davidson College. The Wildcats are
1-3 on the season.

The game is the annual Home-
coming Game and will kickoff at 2
p.m. on Wilson Field. W&L has won
its last two Homecoming games and
is 19-15-2 in Homecoming games
since 1955.

FO RR TI RTO II IIIT ITA II IIS IIA II IASI ISIS I IISA

REAR

TGIF

Outlet Stores

30 S. Main Street
R.E. Lee Building
9:30-5:30, Mon.-Sat.

463-9730
50-80% Savings on Nationally Advertised
Catalog Brands

IIIT II RO IOI IIIA AA IDSA SAI AAAI IAAI SASISAI AISA IA.

SAREE HARARE

JOIN THE DOMINO’S TEAM!

Short term and long term employment for ENERGETIC, OUTGOING delivery personnel!
Domino's Pizza offers the income potential that you’ve been looking for with earnings of

$8-$12 per hour, including tips, plus a work schedule that allows you the flexibility you

need, Call or stop by our Domino's Pizza location below:

23 South Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-7375

 
