 

.

«

 

 

 

 

VOLUME 84, NUMBER 27

 

| General
Notes

 

Gone Fishin’

The Cold Check Committee
stopped picking up checks from
local merchants yesterday
—checks written after that date
will be taken care of next year.

Fall registration

Registration for fall term
classes will be Monday for
juniors, Tuesday for sophomores
and Wednesday for freshmen.
Students will be subject to a $25
late registration fee if their
registration card is picked up
after Wednesday.

Calling all dumbbells

The training room requests that
anyone who has any athletic
equipment return it as soon as

possible.
Summer jobs

Part-time and full-time summer
jobs in Lexington are available.
Interested students should contact
Richard Armstrong at Evans Din-
ing Hall.

Rotary scholarships

Juniors and seniors interested
in applying for 1986-87 Rotary
Foundation Scholarships should
meet with Professor Joseph
Goldsten on Tuesday at 2 p.m. in
Commerce School 321. Awards
cover full tuition, travel and living
expenses for one academic year
abroad.

Public Works grants

Students whose college educa-
tion will be applicable to perfor-
mance in the public works area
can apply for one of two $500 un-
dergraduate grants from the re-
gional chapter of the American
Public Works Association. Appli-
cations are available in the Finan-
cial Aid Office and must be re-
turned by May 10.

J.V. baseball Friday

Any freshmen and sophomores
interested in junior varsity
baseball should attend a meeting
tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. on the
baseball field. They should come
dressed and ready to practice.

A Mock sale

The Mock Convention still has
for sale a limited number of 1984
Mock Convention T-shirts, grain
cups and posters in the Mock Con-
vention office, downstairs in the
Student Center, across from the
television room. T-shirts are $5;
grain cups, three for $1; and
posters, 50 cents.

Make my day

The Politics Film Festival will
show “Death Wish’’ tonight at 7 in
Commerce School 327. This Holly-
woodization of vigilante justice
Bernhard Goetz-style redefines
the “law and order’ issue anew
and offers a method for reducing
the load on our criminal justice
system. The 1974 film stars
Charles Bronson.

4 ‘Life with Father’

Auditions for the Henry Street
Playhouse production of ‘‘Life
with Father” will be held May 11
and 12 from 2 to 3:30 p.m. in the
theater, on the corner of Henry
and Main streets. Parts for the
play, which will run June 14 to
June 29, are available for six men,
eight women, and two boys.

Classic Marxism
Stephen Resnick, a professor at
the University of Massachusetts
in Amherst, will speak about
4 “Marxist Versus Neo-Classical
Economies’ tonight at 7:30 in
Classroom E of the Law School.

Traditional change

“Preserving Tradition through
Transition,’ a symposium on
changes brought about by co-
education, will be held Tuesday at
7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
The discussion is being sponsored
by Omicron Delta Kappa.

EC budget reports

The following organizations are
scheduled to make budget reports
to to the Executive Committee on
Monday night: the Fencing Club,
the Film Society, The Ring-tum
Phi and the Rugby Club.

 

 
 

LEXIN

rom ® igc paneeeti
GTON, VA, 24480

 

 

 

 

Check it out

Book sale
at library

 

j—369-
Your Weekend Weather

 

 
   
 

 

Cloudy, chance of rain Friday;
weekend partly cloudy, cool

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Grades:

Sophomores F

Freshmen

Fall Term
vs. Winter Term

 

 

 

By Fraternity

 

 

Winter Term
Fall Term

 

 

Grand jury will decide
whether to indict Girard

via Federal Express from Miami toa

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 2, 1985

EC backs Tomaso on drugs;
SCC gets non-voting woman

Female to be added
if one is not elected

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

Asks that slurs be
‘minor,’ not ‘major’

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Executive Committee on Monday narrowly voted
to add a woman ad hoc member to the Student Control
Committee if no female is elected, and easily defeated a
similar proposal for a minority ad hoc member.

The proposal for the female member passed 5-3-2; the
proposal for a minority lost 4-6.

The Coeducation Steering Committee had recommen-
ded that the EC appoint a freshman woman as a non-
voting member of Student Control next year if a woman

Point oe were not elected to the committee.

Averoge Ranking The steering committee had said in its resolution that
1. Sigma Nu 2872 1 All Fraternity 2.607 “not simply the perception of fairness, but fairness it-
© Gee tetaTan (8775 9 9. PiKappa Phi 2601 self, depends upon female representation.”
3. Kappa Alpha 2.758 4 10. PhiGamma Delta 2.597 15 Secretary Sam Dalton, senior representative Dave
4. PhiKappaPsi 2.741 8 11, PhiKappaSigma 2.593 5 Jonson and freshman representative Brandt Wood op-
, enaetke i 4 12. Lambda Chi Alpha 2.563 16 posed the resolution to add a woman ad hoc member,

: N on-Fraternity 2-710 13. Pi Kappa Alpha 2.536 2 while sophomore representatives Andrew Caruthers and
6. PhiDeltaTheta 2689 6 14. SigmaAlphaEp. 2.524 12 | ShayamMenonabstained.
7. Sigma Chi 2.673 10 15. Kappa Sigma 2.468 13 The resolution to add a minority ad hoc member was
8. Chi Psi 2.648 7 16. Delta Tau Delta 2.496 14 opposed by Dalton, Jonson, junior representative Pat
All Men 2.640 17. Beta Theta Pi 2151 17 | Hayden, Caruthers, Menon and Wood.

During the extended debate, Jonson and Dalton were
outspoken in their opposition to the idea of a woman ad
hoc member.

“With all guys on the committee, at least you get a
general consensus,”’ Jonson said. ‘With one woman, you
run the risk of her one view being taken as the general
feeling of most women. Who's to say her one view is the
right one?”’

Dalton expressed similar views. ‘‘You’re limiting it to
the view of one woman,”’ he said.

“There will be 13 other guys on the panel,’’ countered

By JIMSTRADER “Wm. Babe Ruth” at Girard’s ad- _ third-year law representative James Crutchfield. ‘The
Staff Reporter dress, _ woman doesn’t even have a vote: A single woman’s voice
An analysis by the Virginia Bureau on’t be the determiner of the outcome.”’

A Rockbridge County grand jury
will decide Monday whether to indict
senior Gene Girard on a charge of
possession of cocaine with intent to
distribute it.

The charges were certified to the
grand jury after a 70-minute prelimi-
nary hearing Friday.

Girard was arrested March 1 at the
East Lexington grocery store by Ser-
geant R. W. Hall of the Rockbridge
County Sheriff's Department and
held for several hours before arrang-
ing a $30,000 property bond.

Girard, a 23-year-old from Coral
Gables, Fla., was co-captain of the
W&L football team last fall. He was
not called to testify during the preli-
minary hearing.

Dressed in a blue blazer, white
shirt, striped tie and khakis, Girard
from time to time shook his head and
leaned over to confer with his attor-
ney, Laurence A. Mann of Lexington.

Lexington and Rockbridge County
law enforcement officers testified
that Girard was arrested in connec-
tion with a package containing about
one ounce of cocaine that was sent

English ‘comps’:

 

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

of Forensics showed the package
contained 29 grams — slightly more
than an ounce — of cocaine.

General District Judge E.C. Wes-

terman ordered the case sent to the
grand jury after denying a motion by
Mann that the Commonwealth’s evi-
dence be struck because Girard
never took physical possession of the
package.

Assistant Commonwealth’s Attor-

ney Richard J. Cabaniss said there
was “‘more than enough evidence to
go on with the case,”’ while Mann
argued that the relationship estab-
lished by the testimony was “tenuous
at best.”

Cabaniss said Girard exercised

legal control over the shipment by
asking that East Lexington receive it
for him.

Mann contended, however, that the

package cannot be connected with
Girard, because law enforcement
officers testified that he did not touch
it and his name was not in the ad-
dress. ‘‘He never even saw it,”” Mann
said.

OSee Girard, Page 4

plishment.’’

 

Comprehensive examinations.

Andy Haring also was relieved to be finished, but he

Senior representative Bob Tomaso, the EC’s ad hoc
member to the SCC, said, ‘‘This committee is not as ser-
ious as the EC. But I think a woman will help it a great
deal. Think how they will feel next year. I think this will
be something that they can notice as our effort to make
their transition easier.”’

EC President-elect John Lewis was adamant in his op-
position to the proposal.

“This tokenism will ruin W&L,”’ he said. ‘‘If we start
putting people on committees just so they can represent
a minority, then we’re hos:

Jonson also expressed a fear that a woman ad hoc
member might represent a separation in the perception
of honor.

“There are some situations where there is a clear dis-
tinction between honor and dishonor. I’m worried about
this separation,” Jonson said.

EC President Cole Dawson supported the resolution.
“There are tons of things girls talk about that they would
never talk about around guys,” he said. ‘“‘There might
arise a problem in which the girls won’t want to talk to
an all male SCC. I’m afraid a lot of things might not go in
front of the SCC.”

Dawson also said it “is known’”’ that student control is
‘not as serious’’ as the EC is.

Dawson asked that the resolution state that the need
for a woman ad hoc member be reviewed next year. Car-
uthers said that if next year’s EC wanted to review the
OSee Ad hoc, Page 4

The report of the Drug Policy Review Committee and
a minority report written by head dormitory counselor
and committee member Bob Tomaso were endorsed
unanimously by the Executive Committee on Monday,
with only a few minor changes.

The faculty-student University Council was scheduled
to discuss the report at its meeting this afternoon. The
faculty will discuss it and may vote on it on Monday.

The drug committee, formed by President John D.
Wilson last fall at the request of the Board of Trustees,
called for a distinction between ‘‘major” and ‘‘minor”
offenses under the jurisdiction of the Student Control
Committee and for a number of changes in the SCC’s
procedures.

The committee also recommended that possession or
use of drugs not be punishable by the University. Toma-
so’s minority report, endorsed by the EC, stated that not
penalizing use of drugs would place dormitory counse-
lors ‘‘in an impossible situation.”

Tomaso also wrote that “hypocrisy would exist when
students are allowed to use drugs in the dormitories
when very few members of the community are actually
willing to allow such behavior.”

Sophomore representative Andrew Caruthers said he
agreed with Tomaso’s view.

“What might happen is that one hall might become a
party hall,”’ Caruthers said. ‘‘Everyone goes over to this
hall to do drugs because the dorm counselor allows it,
and then there’s this one kid alone who could really feel
offended.”

Speaking about the committee’s 30-page report as a
whole, Tomaso, one of three students who served on the
committee, told the EC, ‘‘We want to elevate Student
Control to the level of the EC.”’

As examples, Tomaso pointed out the reports’ report's
proposal for recorded testimony at SCC hearings in addi-
tion to the designation of ‘“‘minor’’ and ‘‘major’’ offenses
(all of which fall beneath honor violations in severity).

A second minority opinion, written by Dean of Stu-
dents Lewis G. John and Professors Louis W. Hodges
and Michael A. Pleva, was specifically opposed by the
EC.

The opinion, which asked for greater faculty represen-
tation in Student Control decisions, stated that the facul-
ty “‘have been little involved in discipline, save to how!
ineffectively when we thought students were too lightly
punished for what we perceived to be gross misconduct
(to wit: the boxwood incident).”’

The list of ‘‘minor’’ and ‘“‘major”’ offenses evoked a lot
of interest of the parts of various EC members.

The drug committee’s report proposed that penalties
for students convicted of ‘‘major’’ offenses include pos-
sible pulsion or suspension from the University. Penal-
ties for ‘‘minor’’ offenses would include such things as
dormitory or social probation.

First-year law representative James Crutchfield ex-
pressed some concern about the distinction.

“I’m afraid that many of these “major’’ offenses
would be, in my opinion, honor violations,” Crutchfield
said.

Tomaso explained that the offenses were designated
as ‘‘minor”’ or ‘‘major”’ in an effort to clear up problems
with the University’s current policies toward conduct.
(See Drugs, Page 4

13 seniors pass, breathe sigh of relief

thorough hell before and during, relief after finishing
and when the grades are up, a fantastic sense of accom-

 

 

Those words initially chill every senior English major,
who must pass such an exam to graduate.

For that reason, 13 Washington and Lee seniors
breathed a sigh of relief yesterday when they saw their
names on a list posted on a bulletin board in the English
department.

No one who took the exam failed it this year, although
if anyone had, he would have been able to take it again
and eventually could have had to take an oral exam. In
order for a student to fail the written exam, two-thirds of
the English faculty members must vote against his pass-
ing.

“The students take discrete and comprehensive
courses in several areas, but the comprehensives allow
them to synthesize their knowledge and self-confi-
dence,” acting department Chairman George W. Ray III
said.

“It’s a test of endurance, perseverance and patience,”
said Glen Jackson, who took the exam last week. ‘‘It
makes graduation more climactic, and it gives youa tre-
mendous sense of accomplishment once you have finish-
ed.”’

Jackson’s description of the actual taking of the test
was somewhat different, however.

“You sit in a room on the Colonnade for four hours
Thursday afternoon and four hours Friday afternoon,
while people outside are playing Frisbee and listening to
Chaka Khan — after a while, you wonder what the hell
you are doing there,” Jackson said.

Warren Taylor echoed that opinion.

“It’s not pleasant, but good things are not always plea-
sant,” Taylor said. ‘‘I think it is one of the few oppor-
tunities for an English major to pull together everything
he has learned for four years.”’

Gray Sanders agreed that the comprehensive exami-
nation served as an appropriate culmination for English
majors.

“It brings things together,’’ Sanders said. ‘‘It gives
you a big-picture view. But there is utter, complete and

remembers the anxiety of having to wait for the tests to
be graded. Haring found cause for optimism, though.

“You have got history on your side because very few
have failed it in the last few years,” Haring said. ‘‘With-
out the comps, however, you could ignore certain areas
— the classics, for instance. It’s a way of catching you,
but it’s also a prestigious sort of thing, too.’’

Ray emphasized that the test is not being used as an
exclusionary device. Rather, he said, because of the lib-
eral requirements for an English major, the comprehen-
sive’s value is to ensure breadth of reading and compe-
tent analytical skill.

Ray said he is not certain when the English compre-
hensives started, but he came to W&L in 1964 and
remembers them being ‘‘entrenched” when he arrived.

“Historically, there were at one time many more de-
partments requiring comprehensive examinations,”’
Ray said. “But at Washington and Lee, I think the only
other department still giving comprehensives is geo-
logy.”’

“T think there is evidence nationwide that depart-
ments are moving back toward comprehensives,”’ he
added. “‘If we hang with it long enough, we may even be
avant-garde.”’

“The point,’’ Ray said, ‘‘is that we are a major that
does not require a huge number of credits, so we make
the assumption that there are areas that [the students]
have not studied in depth. Therefore, the comp is to en-
sure the department that they have read widely, if not
deeply.”

Taylor agreed that the English department lends itself
well to a comprehensive exam. ‘‘Any area where you
study the development of something over the course of
centuries lends itself well toa comprehensive,” he said.

‘‘We want them to take pride in the fact that they have
completed an English major,”’ Ray said. ‘We want them
to think and articulate their responses in a clear and
luminous way.”’

Jackson added: ‘‘I think all majors should have a com-
prehensive; they are missing out.”

operetta te ott tap esc aie aati

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Ron Fenstermacher was among the English majors who waited
anxiously this week to learn the scores on their “‘comps.”’ The grades were
posted yesterday in Payne Hall. Fenstermacher — and everyone else who
took the test — passed. }
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2

OPINION wy eee
‘A’ for effort

The Executive Committee has been criticized in this col-
umn for occasionally being unwilling to deal with tough, sub-
stantive issues. The EC has the clout and resources to accom-
plish a great deal, but it sometimes has failed to seize that op-
portunity.

 

At a three-hour meeting Monday night, the committee
tackled a series of controversial topics. We applaud their ef-
fort to avoid a continually neutral, passive position on stu-
dent body issues. What we saw the other night was certainly
more than action for action’s sake.

‘heir good intentions, however, went a bit overboard. Just
as a car that is skidding out of control will surely wreck if it is
jerkily overcorrected, so the EC left itself vulnerable to
criticism because of the overzealousness with which it at-
tacked its agenda Monday night.

The committee allowed itself to be railroaded into acting
immediately on a petition brought before it by two under-
graduate representatives of the Washington and Lee Cam-
paign Against Apartheid. Protesting about firms that do busi-
ness in South Africa is a bandwagon issue that recently has
become quite fashionable, as has hunger in Ethiopia and the
problem of missing children. (Before that, it was the nuclear
freeze; before that, it was saving whales....) At the request of
the two members of the campaign, the EC hopped right on
the boycott bandwagon. Rather than taking a week to allow
members to read the resolution, the committee voted swiftly
to sign the petition, and actually chided sophomore represen-
tative Andrew Caruthers for wanting to read something
before he voted on it.

Caruthers is very conscientious about seeking student body
opinion on how funds should be used and what stands student
representatives should take on issues. No member of the
committee Monday night even suggested that they should
seek someone’s opinion besides their own before thrusting
themselves into the political arena. (What’s the EC going to
comment on next — the deficit? Beirut? Nuclear arms?)

This particular proposal was one they would have done
well to think twice about before endorsing. For one thing, a
representative of the Campaign at first said that University
President John D. Wilson ‘‘supports”’ their effort, but then
allowed as how Wilson was only aware of it and had not in
fact expressed an opinion about it. Additionally, the repre-
sentative of the Campaign said that members of the Board of
Trustees were ignorant about this issue and that the Cam-
paign wanted to educate them. The members of the board did
not get where they are by being stupid or uninformed, and if
the school were doing somthing morally reprehensible, we
suspect they’d be able to act on it without being treated in a
condescending manner by a pressure group made up of a few
students and faculty members.

From apartheid, the EC went on to the matter of having an
ad hoc woman member added to the Student Control Com-
mittee. Three points made during the debate disturbed us.
First, several EC members said a woman is unlikely to get
elected to the SCC. We think that’s a severe miscalculation,
not so much chauvinistic as it is simply unperceptive. All that
any female candidate for freshman class president would
need is a substantial portion of the other 100 women’s votes,
and she’d be in. When was the last time any guy won a class
office by a margin like that? Second, it was stated more than
once that the SCC is ‘‘less serious’ about its work than the
EC, and so having a woman there would help keep it on track.
We think the notion that under the leadership of Townes Pres-
sler and Darby Brower the SCC has conducted itself impro-
perly is at best open to question. Third, Caruthers urged the
EC to make the appointment for only one year. Other mem-
bers of the committee insisted that it not be for a specific
length of time, but that it be reviewed at the end of next year.
They neglected the fundamental point that it’s not their re-
sponsibility to do something that’s binding on another com-
mittee — this year’s committee ought act only for itself. If
next year’s EC wants to continue the ad hoc position, it will
--it doesn’t need the permission of its predecessors. Because
Caruthers saw the flaw in the wording, he and another mem-
ber abstained from the vote, making the EC’s statement
much less clear than it otherwise would have been.

Next, the EC went on to the subject of a minority ad hoc
member. Despite student body Secretary-elect Mike Webb’s
eloquent statement of his reasons for opposing such a posi-
tion, the committee barged along with the motion. The ques-
tion arose of how the EC would determine what a ‘‘minority”’
is. ‘‘Non-white” was the definition first-year law represen-
tative James Crutchfield lamely offered. It quickly became
clear from the discussion that the position was intended for a
black student. The word “‘tokenism’’ came up, and it struck
us as rather ironic that the EC finds it offensive that the
South African government treats blacks differently than it
does other citizens, but feels that to do so at Washington and
Lee would be somehow acceptable. This is 1985 — we thought
treating blacks differently from everyone else was
something we’d gotten over years ago. Webb’s election to one
of the top three posts in the student body is clear testimony to
that. The ad hoc minority motion failed, but the damage had
been done merely by raising the question.

We began by taking note of positive actions by the commit-
tee, and it is on that note that we will conclude, since their ef-
fort to provide leadership is a refreshing, welcome change.
Their endorsement of Bob Tomaso’s courageous, articulate
minority report to the Drug Policy Review Committee’s
proposal was a highly constructive move that will give
Tomaso’s arguments added credibility as the faculty debates
the report. We agree that for the University to throw up its
hands and say that it cannot punish drug use or possession
would have a host of consequences the drug committee never
intended. We hope the faculty will consider carefully
Tomaso’s insightful response, and think twice before it votes
to tacitly condone illegal activity by its students.

(An aside: Several members of the EC have gone out of
their way to emphasize that they’re not opposed to personal
drug use. What’s wrong with being opposed to personal drug
use? Why isn’t anyone willing to take that position? Perhaps
to do so would be to invite hyprocrisy. )

After a lengthy detour, the EC is back on the right road. We
hope it will proceed carefully and thoughtfully, and leave the
hot-rodding to others.

 

 
 
   

Executive
Committee

 

 

 

Ties, art & Tilley - no match

To the Editors:

At the risk of taking Mr. Tilley’s
most recent “My View’’ column too
seriously, I find I cannot let it slip by
without comment. I do not suggest
that every student at W&L be school-
ed in every subject offered here, but I
find it a sad comment on the narrow-
ed scope of W&L’s educational goals
that any student can graduate from
this institution still boasting of his
—dare I say it? — ignorance in any
area. Perhaps Mr. Tilley should have
had his questions answered by some-
one more knowledgeable than
himself before he facetiously criticiz-
ed those admittedly funky artworks.

At least then his opinion would be an
informed one. I sincerely hope he will
some day broaden his education so he
may come to appreciate (if still
dislike) what he’s been missing.

Also I must remark on Mr. Tilley’s
truly humorous treatment of the
well-worn tie issue. I agree with him
that ties may “inspire a sense of
seriousness, of academia, of honor,
of gentlemanliness and of
magnanimity.”” I do not believe,
however, that they inspire any more
than a sense of these. The actual em-
bodiment of these virtues has nothing
whatsoever to do with what you
wear.

What, after all, is the real reason
130 students are enrolled in the popes
course? Is it because they get to wear
ties? As any good W&L spring term
student knows, the common name for
that course is not ‘Popes for the
Academically Serious, Honorable,
Magnanimous Gentleman.”

I fear that were it up to Mr. Tilley,
W&L would become the first Conser-
vative Artless College in the country.
I wonder if he is aware that the of-
ficial W&L tie sold by the University
Bookstore is polyester.

John Riordan
Class of 1987

Famine raised awareness, money

To the Editors:

We would like to publicly thank
those members of the Washington
and Lee community who either par-
ticipated in or sponsored others in
last weekend’s Planned Famine and
those who gave up their dinner meal
last Tuesday night at the dining hall
in order to raise money to fight world
hunger.

Though money is still being col-
lected, we estimate that around $500
was raised for World Vision, an
international, Christian humanitar-

ian agency, through the Planned
Famine by the dozen students who
fasted. At the dining hall, the raw
food costs that were saved when 238
students gave up their dinner
amounted to $300 that is to be donated
to the Rockbridge Area Relief
Association. In addition, the Student
Association for Black Unity has
donated $240 to World Vision in order
to fight hunger throughout the world.

Special thanks must be given to
President John D. Wilson, Jerry Dar-
rell, Patrick Hinely, Mayor Phillips

Pot shot off target

To the Editors:

, Last week an article was published
concerning a recent, rather impor-
tant addition to the George Wash-
ington material. It was called the
greatest contribution to Wash-
ington’s papers in this generation,
and it was found here at Washington
and Lee. By the way, this is the same
Washington that the University is
named for, and who also happened to
be our first president. I have no com-
plaint with the article itself. The find
is obviously a significant historical
achievement. :

My complaint lies with the snide
remarks made by the editors at the
beginning and end of the article.
After careful reading of the article, I
cannot perceive any evidence which
indicates that George Washington

(the Father of our country, re-
member) married because ‘‘the
Widow Custis was loaded.”’

I am sure that whoever was
responsible for those remarks
thought that they would be quite
humorous. What strikes me as a little
out of place is that I am quite sure
that if such evidence had been found
concerning Robert E. Lee (who
everyone knows should have been the
father of our country) no such snide
remarks would have been made. It
seems to me slightly incongruous
that Washington and Lee, a Universi-
ty based on tradition, should give so
much respect to one founder, and so
little to another.

Mark Weaver
Class of 1985

IU pres questions story

To the Editors:

During this year The Phi has writ-
ten a number of fair and accurate ar-
ticles on the Independent Union.
Thus it was quite a surprise when I
read your article last week. Put sim-
ply, I consider this article to be a
poor example of journalism as well
as misleading.

At least part of the problem is the
way many of my quotes were taken
out of context. The article, at one
point, quotes me as agreeing with a
statement made by Mr. Darrell. This
is impossible as, during the entire
course of the interview, I was never
once informed about any complaints
regarding the Fancy Dress party.
Thus I could not have agreed to any
statement. Furthermore, our ‘“‘self
described credibility problem’? was
taken out of context. I was referring
to our difficulty organizing events
down the road, not our own on-
campus activities.

It would be dishonest of me to say
the IU has not had problems this
year. We have. But what school or-
ganization hasn’t. Considering the
newness of the IU and the problems
we experienced last year, I would say
that we have done better than expect-
ed. Our IM teams have drawn enthu-
siastic support. Our cold test file has
grown. We are even conducting fund
raising this term and hope to in-
crease our social activities next year.
Sadly, The Phi chose to neglect these
facts, focusing almost entirely on the
negative. While the editors saw fit to
mention that we no longer keep regu-
lar office hours, they failed to men-
tion that we will be happy to arrange
a time to use the cold test file. All in-
dependents need to do is leave a note
in our box. And most of our activities

have been well organized and attend-
ed.

With regard to the FD party, I
would say again that you did a poor
job. Not only was this never mention-
ed to me during the interview, but no
one saw fit to investigate the SAB’s
role despite the fact that they lost the
most. A number of factors contribut-
ed to the ‘‘disaster.”” Among these
were poor coordination with the SAB
and the fact that a number of frater-
nities opened their parties that night.
As I mentioned, we are still new at
this and all things considered we
have done quite well this year. I
would like to take this opportunity to
thank both Mr. Darrell and the SAB
for their support and apologize for
their losses. I would also like to thank
all those people who have supported
us this year and made it, on balance,
asuccess. I am sure next year will be
even better. To say otherwise deni-
grates these efforts and gives a false
impression of the IU.

In conclusion I would just like to
say that, as the IU improves, one can
only hope The Phi will as well. Re-
member, you guys have had a lot
longer to get your act together. I
guess to expect an apology or clarifi-
cation would be expecting the impos-
sible?

Luke M. Cornelius
President
W&L Independent Union

Editors’ note: Hardly. In checking
our reporter's notes, we discovered that
the quotation was taken out of context.
The reporter did not ask Cornelius
about the Fancy Dress party because he
did not realize that information would
be given as much attention by the edi-
tors as it was. The Ring-tum Phi apolo-
gizes for these oversights.

and Carole Chappell in supporting
this project.

Our hope is that more students and
faculty will get involved in dealing
with the issues of hunger, poverty
and injustice throughout the world in
the near future. We prayerfully await
a renewal and growth of interest in
Christ’s command to have compas-
sion for the poor.

Clarke Morledge
Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship

Legalities
misplaced

 

Last Thursday we saw the
Honor System work — with disap-
pointing as well as heartening
observations. When the defense
advocate told the jury that they
had to reach a verdict “beyond a
reasonable doubt,” I thought he
was making one of his underhand-
ed psychological plays and was
sure the EC would object, since
the White Book says “resolve any
reasonable doubt in favor of the
accused.”’ Instead, the E.C. ad-
vocate repeated ‘‘beyond a
reasonable doubt.’’ I could not
believe this; there is obviously an
enormous difference between the
two phrases. The phrase in the
White Book was carefully chosen
to suit the spirit of the Honor
System; it places the confidence
of justice on the member of the
“student generation” who is
voting, not on the language of the
code. For the defense advocates
and especially the EC not to know
the White Book — or understand it
better — is an abomination. It is a
further abomination that the SBA
president, who was presiding,
didn’t notice, or at least didn’t cor-
rect, the error(s). This fatal slip
into legal language also illustrates
the danger of placing too much
value on legal training in the ex-
ecution of the Honor System.

The legal mentality of
mistakenly using technicalities
and strategies in dealing with
honor also surfaced in the admit-
tance of the lie detector. The very
notion of using a paid “expert”
and a machine as evidence in an
honor hearing is horrifying and
mocks the spirit of the system.

But it was heartening to see the
system work despite hindrances;
it was also heartening to see the
jury have the good sense and con-
viction to ignore the defense ad-
vocate’s shrewd and eloquent
remarks, which were superfluous
and nearly underhanded in their
aim. The jury reaffirmed where
the ‘‘buck stops’ in the Honor
System; within the individuals
who live it.

 

 

 

Living with the past

MY VIEW

 

By John
Pensec

 

During the fall term I had the op-
portunity to take Religion 204: The
Jewish Tradition. This course was
helpful in that it touched upon most
areas in the history of Judaism. Un-
fortunately, as a class, we did not

discuss Judaism in relationship to.

nationalism or World War II. We
were required to do a term paper,
and looking back, I have mixed feel-
ings about my choice of topics:
“‘Night”’ by Elie Wiesel.

I had read the slim volume before,
but that did not diminish the force of
the punch I received after reading it
for the second and third time. I am
glad that I read it and believe that it
should be mandatory for all students.
The subject matter, however,and the
way Wiesel describes it are anything
but pleasant.

“Night” tells the story of the
growth and development of a young
Jewish boy during the final days of
World War II. He and his family are
placed in a concentration camp
where, among the atrocities, the boy
stands by helpless as his father dies.

There is an earlier scene where,
after his father has been selected by
Dr. Mengele to die, the father gives
his son all his earthly goods, which
consist of a spoon and another small

Che Ring-tum Phi

Chief Editors Business Manager
William Schoeffler

Mike Allen
Bruce Potter

“The Back Page" Editor . .
Sports Editor............
Editorial Page Editor ....

is otherwise independent.

 

MOMOUIE BARE iv vcccc ccc cccceuhnundens

  

PO BNE iiss ces ca hitiiekes ts
Circulation Manager ................00005
Advertising Manager ............csseeeees
MRNOIIE, gro oe cs ssi css aseeiunss:

bis ns 0 iebedencbeninea trees Alex Bryant
see ccvieuswinssasaeueres Chris Bowring

oe Chuck Bracken, Hank Greenberg,

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

item. The boy looks upon these gifts
as his inheritance. His father, by a
chance of fate, did not die that day,
and yet I am hard put to call that for-
tunate.

Today, 40 years later, we, the
children of the post-war world, have
inherited quite a legacy from our
ancestors, and the time has arrived
for us to come to terms with our in-
heritance.

What happened during World War
II can never be forgotten nor should
it, lest history repeat itself. But can’t
we find it in ourselves to forgive?

I sympathize with the millions of
Jews and Christians who were placed
in concentration camps but people
have a tendency of living with the
past.

President Reagan has said that the
SS were victims of the Third Reich
just as much as those who were tor-
tured and killed during the war. Mr.
President, with all due respect, I do
not agree. If there are any Germans
who are the victims of the SS, they
are the children of the SS. Those who
took part in the brutalities of the con-
centration camps will have to be held |
accountable, but their children |
should not be. With each succeeding .
generation we are growing further
away from World War II. Let us hope
that we can grow closer together to |
maintain whatever shreds of place |
we have left.

Correction

The person on the left in a front-
page photograph in last week’s
Ring-tum Phi was misidentified.
It was senior Nick Cromwell.

   
 

 

.. Cotten Puryear
..». Mike Stachura
eeaes Nelson Patterson

   
 

Chris Gareis

Jeff Kimbell, Rob Tolleson

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Health, music ready for fall

Infirmary
changes said
not drastic

By BILL BLOOM
Staff Reporter

 

 

With coeducation just four months
away, the Washington and Lee Infir-
mary and Student Health Committee
have decided on a few changes for
the fall. The changes will be notice-
able, even though they will not be
drastic because female law students
and exchange students have been at
W&L for several years.

The most significant change will be
a physical reconstruction of the
wards in the infirmary, providing ad-
ditional privacy, according to Uni-
versity Physician F.A. Feddeman.
Although that move will reduce the
bed capacity of the infirmary from 15
to 10 beds, Feddeman says that won't
be a problem in that the infir-
mary hasn’t even been to capacity in
the time he has been here.

Other changes the infirmary plans
are in the services it provides. A
female has been hired for women
who might feel uncomfortable talk-
ing with a male psychologist. A gyne-

IFC proposes midweek party

 

By BILL MARTIEN
Staff Reporter

 

Several Wednesday night party
rule changes aimed at improving re-
lations among fraternities and with
the faculty were proposed at Tues-
day’s Interfraternity Council meet-
ing.

IFC President Jaimie Hayne sug-
gested that an individual fraternity
be allowed to sponsor a maximum of
two midweek parties a month and
that parties be limited to two partici-
pating fraternities.

 

Coeducation:

83

What Will it Mean?

cologist, John D. Harralson of Lex-
ington, has been informed of the pos-
sibility of an increase in referrals.
Feddeman said he and his colleague,
Robert M. Pickral, probably will
handle most of the women’s needs.

Though the infirmary will not be
providing birth control pills or de-
vices in the fall, it will continue its
current programs in that area. Such
services include counseling female
students and providing prescriptions
for birth control. Those programs
will continue on an informal basis,
according to Feddeman.

Birth control for men has never
been requested and will not be offer-
ed in the future, Feddeman said.

Changes already implemented in
the infirmary include an increase in
literature available for a variety of il-
Inesses and conditions and the ‘“‘rea-
son for visit’’ category on the infir-
mary’s sign-in sheet. That category
was eliminated after a woman law
student brought to the infirmary
staff’s attention that it is a violation
of privacy for the student to have to
provide such information publicly.

 

A particular fraternity, then,
would be allowed two parties a month
at its own house and two more at
other fraternities, for a maximum of
four parties a month.

No other Washington and Lee stu-
dents would be allowed to attend a
given party, including independents
and members of other fraternities.

Hayne said this proposal would
“create more unity between the
houses.”’

“By restricting the size and the
amount of parties, the faculty will
be more cooperative,”’ he continued.

A second proposal would require

Vandalism reported;
acts may be related

 

From Staff Reports

 

Several
students and Lexington residents
were hit last week with a series of
acts of vandalism that Police Chief
L.O. Sutton says were probably
related.

eSenior Mike Shelton’s Volkswagen
Rabbit suffered $150 in damage
Saturday night when its right front
and right rear tires were slashed on
West Preston Street.

eFreshman Richard Bernstein’s
Mazda RX-7 sustained $100 in
damage when the front and rear
windshield wipers and radio antenna
were broken off Thursday night.

eAssistant Fire Chief Brian Causey
had the sidewall of his left front truck
tire punctured Saturday night.

$300 in damage was done to the
windshield of a 1983 Chevrolet station
wagon of Lexington resident Michael
B. Leary while the car was parked in

Washington and Lee:

the Dominion Bank parking lot Satur-
day night.

~ | 'sAlso ithe iast, week, two signs

weré taken from “the Stonewall
Jackson House,° some glass was
broken at Mays Real Estate Inc. and
three bricks were thrown over the
wall at the Centel office, damaging
some bricks and wet cement.

“‘T think all of these are related,”’
Sutton said, noting that the methods,
locations and times of the incidents
were quite similar. He said it’s been
“quite a while” since there’s been a
similar string of acts of vandalism.

Sutton said police have few clues in
the cases. ‘‘There were no witnesses,
they didn’t take anything with
them...{and] they didn’t leave finger-
prints,’’ he said. “With this type of
thing, without a witness or an infor-
mant, once they get away, it’s pretty
hard to do anything.”’

“There’s just not much to go on,”’
he said.

 

 

This standby fare provides a
berth in a room for 4 (we'll
find traveling companions for
you). Or, for $699, sail ina
minimum grade room for 2
people. This limited offer is
subject to withdrawal without
prior notice and may not be
combined with any other offer.
Rate does not include taxes or
airfare. Confirmation will be
given 3 weeks prior to sailing;

 

 

NOTICE!

QE2 STANDBY FARE To EUROPE—Now $599,

es CUNT

a $75 deposit is required with
your request. For details, see
your travel agent or write:
Cunard, PO. Box 2935, Grand
Central Station, New York,

N Y 10163.

UEEN
LIZABETH

British Registry

© CUNARD 1985

 

  
 
      

  
 

Rockbridge County’s

Component Stereo Center
for your home and car
Maxell UDXLII's 2.99 ea.

 

POL eer

 

  

Featuring: JVC, Boston Acoustic,
Design Acoustic, Panasonic,
Sony, Maxell, Audio Technica

A Division of si
Value Mart ves)

2175 Magnolia Ave., Buena Vista

Part-time
voice teacher
to be hired

By JIM STRADER
Staff Reporter

 

 

A part-time voice teacher will be
added to the University’s music
department next year to accom
modate women students interested in
taking voice lessons, according to
music Professor Robert Stewart

All other department programs
will remain as they are, he said, ad
ding that any need for further change
will be evaluated on a year-to-year
basis.

Although many of the women ac
cepted for admission next fall have
indicated having a musical ability of
one kind or another, Stewart said,
“We don’t want to jump to conclu-
sions because of lists.’’

“Music is an interest,’ Stewart
said. ‘‘It’s not what they’re here for.’
He added that the women will be at
Washington and Lee to receive an
education and to prepare for careers
If many of them do not continue with
their musical interests, he said he
would not be surprised

that fraternity members be required
to provide their own alcohol for Wed
nesday night parties. Kegs would be
forbidden, even if a few members
wanted to bring one.

Hayne and other members of the
IFC said they supported the sugges-
tion. ‘‘I think this would be a really
good idea,’’ Hayne said. ‘‘By imple
menting this policy, the IFC would be
making an active proposal instead of

Stewart referred to a list of this
year’s freshmen who indicated some
musical ability or interest in high
school and noted that only a small
number continued with music at
Wé&L

Of the women interested in music
and considering applying to W&L in-
terviewd by Stewart, most of them
played the piano or string or wood-
wind instruments or sang

Among the plans Stewart has for
the music department, provided
there is sufficient interest, are a
string ensemble and the addition of
woodwind instruments to the W&L
jazz and brass ensembles.

As far as vocal groups go, Stewart
said there are no plans for changes at
this time. ‘‘The W&L Glee Club will
continue as all-male,” he said, add
ing that women who wish to sing will
be able to join a different group

“We are going to start to develop a
fine university chorus for mixed
voices,’’ he said.

More women than men seem to be
involved in singing, Stewart said. ‘‘In
high school, the boys are usually in
volved in athletics and macho ac-
tivities,’ he added, and the singing
groups that seem to attract males in
high school are those that perform
popular selections

“We will take it year to year,’
Stewart said. ‘‘We will do what the
students indicate to fill the need.”’

changes

always making reactive ones.”’

Hayne noted that under the upcom-
ing increase in the Virginia drinking
age, this could prevent fraternities
from being responsible for providing
liquor to minors

“It would take a lot of weight and
pressure off the fraternities,” he
said

A third proposal would end all mid-
week parties at 2a.m.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 2, 1985, Page 3
RSS See Sak Sa CAKES SOM =e

WE'LL PAY YOU TO GET INTO
SHAPE THIS SUMMER.

ARMY ROTC.
BE ALLYOU CAN BE.
Thats wl CN YOU FeCClVe

in officers
So pet ye

u Dave at icust

f college Ieft

MMMISSIOn
ir body in

j
shape (not to mention your

YOU CAR SPChich SEX WeCRS it
our Army ROTC Bast

Camp dts st

bank account)
Enroll in Army ROT
For more informanon

mmer and cam
approximately $600

And it you quality, you
can enter the ROTC 2
Year Program this fall and
receive up to $1 OX

Bur the

contict ;

MAJOR DOUG SMITH
MILITARY SCIENCE DEPT.

a year
hu pavott :
os 463-8486

happen iday

 

 

  
        
     

 

UPPERC

MS Se Se eae ce caciaaaeaaaee aan

Bs

PRI

 

ASSMAN

Dominion can make you a new or late model used car loan with 100% financing
We can even give you up to 120 days to make your first payment. And our Visa card to
get you on the road. If you're a junior or senior who can verify present income or
future employment, you could qualify. Just ask for our Upperclassman’s Priority Loan.
At Dominion Bank in Lexington

LET US SHOW YOL

¢

 

HOW ACCOMMODATING A GOOD BANK CAN BI

 
eee eee ewe wee ewe ew ew ew

eeeuczeoeee

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 2, 1985

Bargain

Library sells unneeded books

 

By STEVE CONNER
Staff Reporter

The University Library has raised
more than $1,000 by selling 2,600
books since March 19.

This year’s book sale is the first at
the University Library and the first
book sale at Washington and Lee
since 1978.

‘The purpose of the book sale is to
allow readers to buy books at a
moderate price to add to their
reading collection and to stimulate-
further reading habits,’ said Univer-
sity Librarian Maurice Leach.

Book prices range from 5 cents to
one dollar. Books for sale have been
placed on carts in the library lobby.

Leach said that the books for sale
are duplicates of books the library
already has in its collection and
books received as donations from
Rockbridge County residents, Wash-
ington and Lee alumni and friends of
the library.

Leach said that the University
Library staff decides what books are
to become part of the University

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
Staff Reporter

 

Students who find insurance, bank-
ing or clothing brochures in their
mailboxes may not be aware that the
University has an ongoing policy
with local businesses regarding the
distribution of students’ addresses.

According to Thomas C. Imeson II,
director of the W&L computer cen-
ter, where mailing labels are printed,
all information in the Register of
Faculty, Staff and Students is
‘presumed to be public’’ and ‘‘can be
distributed upon request.”’

But Imeson said permission to dis-
tribute such lists to interest groups
outside the University is controlled
by the office that deals with a partic-
ular group.

For example, he said, the compu-
ter center recently released the
names and home addresses of all stu-
dents to development officials for the
Borden Commons condominium pro-
ject. Imeson said he first contacted

Library’s colleetion and what books
are to be disposed of.

The type of books for sale range
from history to literature to hunting
and fishing.

Washington and Lee senior Mike
Shelton and sophomore Erik Curren
seem to be two of the top book
buyers, Leach said.

“T thought the book sale was a
great idea,’’ Shelton said. Shelton, a
history major, has bought more than
100 books and says he pians to read
them all.

Sophomore Richard Graves has
bought more than 15 books and said
he hopes to buy more before the sale
ends.

‘The sale was a great idea, and the
prices are wonderful,” Graves said.

Leach said the majority of the
books had been purchased by Wash-
ington and Lee students, but the
books for sale can be bought by
anyone.

The book sale wi!l probably end by
the end of this week, Leach said.

“‘Any books left over will be sold at
a larger reduction and any books not
sold will probably be trashed,’
Leach said.

the Office of Dean of Students to ob-
tain permission to give out the ad-
dresses.

Brochures advertising the sale of
the condos were subsequently mailed
to the parents of students.

We try to be very particular in
providing that information off cam-
pus,” Imeson said.

“It’s not this office’s judgment
what purposes are worthwhile,’’ he
added.

Besides the Borden Commons in-
terest group, Imeson said he remem-
bers one other time when students’
names were printed out for an off-
campus group. Imeson said he re-
ceived permission through the Office
of Dean of Students two years ago to
distribute students’ names to a group
conducting a housing survey.

Penelope C. Henneman, secretary
to the Dean of Students, said the lists
were released to the two groups this
year and two years ago in the interest
of the students.

Both groups, she said, were inter-
ested in providing information re-

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomores Mike Wacht (foreground) and Andy Tartaglione select
bargains yesterday at the library’s book sale.

Local merchants use student directory

garding student housing — a major
concern of the Dean of Students.

A spokeswoman for the Registrar’s
Office also called the Register of
Faculty, Staff and Students “public
information,’ and said the policy
there is to give out the directory to
local businessmen who go to the of-
fice to pick it up. The office does not
mail the directory out.

According to Imeson, four local
business establishments have ongo-
ing agreements with the University
regarding their receiving computer-
printed labels of students’ addresses.

Bean Insurance, College Town
Shop, Alvin-Dennis and the linen ser-
vice in competition with University
Cleaners, which Imeson said changes
every year, are the four establish-
ments that receive students’ address-
es.

Henneman said the Office of Dean
of Students every year gives a com-
puter printout of the names and home
addresses of incoming freshmen to
local banks. She said there is no fee
and called the action a ‘“‘goodwill ges-

ture between the college and the
banks.”

According to Henneman, the of-
fice’s policy is to give the same infor-
mation to each bank. She said she ex-
pects the University to provide a
newly opened bank in the Lexington
area with an identical list that will be
distributed to the other four banks
during the summer.

On-campus interest groups, such
as the Admissions Office, Summer
Programs Office or fraternities, are
able to obtain computer printouts of
addresses of alumni or current stu-
dents by paying a small fee.

The price is $.015 per label, with a
minimum charge of $1.

We charge everybody the same,”’
including the businesses, Imeson
said.

Credit card brochures, which seem
to find their way to seniors’ mail-
boxes this time of year, get no help
from the University.

“How the credit card companies
get their information I just don’t
know,”’ Imeson said.

Revenue sharing fails; city to resume annexation effort

 

By JOHN WINTERS
Staff Reporter

 

The city of Lexington will proceed
with its plans to annex a portion of
Rockbridge County, Mayor Charles

F. Phillips Jr. announced Tuesday in
the wake of a failure by the city and
county to reach a revenue-sharing
agreement.

Virginia has an arrangement uni-
que among states in which cities are
not part of counties. They can there-

fore increase their revenue base by
annexing land that previously was
under county control. Hostile annex-
ations are sometimes avoided
through revenue-sharing agreements
between two localities.

Such an agreement was reached

EC supports apartheid study

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

A resolution urging the Board of
Trustees to study the school’s in-
volvement with firms dealing with
the South African government was
endorsed by the Executive Commit-
tee on Monday night by an 8-1-1 vote.

The petition, sponsored by the
Washington and Lee Campaign
Against Apartheid, asks that appro-
priate action be taken if it is found
that the school helps finance or does
business with such companies, ‘‘Such
support is morally unacceptable and
inconsistent with the tradition and
principles of the University,” the pe-
tition says.

Junior representative Pat Hayden
voted against the endorsement be-
cause he said it was inconsistent for
the group to say it was only asking
the trustees to study the matter, and
yet also state in the petition that the
support was ‘‘morally unaccepta-
ble.”’ Hayden said he was opposed to

Ad hoc

 

divestment but that he did not sup-
port apartheid.

Sophomore representative Andrew
Caruthers abstained from the vote.
Some members of the committee ob-
jected when Caruthers said he want-
ed to read the petition before he voted
on it. ‘I don’t know enough about the
situation to vote right now,”’
Caruthers said.

Junior Ted DeLaney, appearing
with junior Everett Hamilton on be-
half of the Campaign Against Apar-
theid, explained that the purpose of
the petition was to create a forum for
students to come together and
discuss apartheid

“Essentially, it’s a moral appeal,”
DeLaney said. “We must look at
apartheid from an ethical angle.
We're asking you to look in your cons-
cience — to ask, ‘Is this institution in-
volved with the South African gov-
ernment and do we support it?’ ”’

DeLaney said University President
John D. Wilson is aware of the organ-
ization’s efforts, but does not neces-

sarily support or not support the
drive.

The trustees invest the school’s
money as part of a group of colleges,
DeLaney explained, and so is not
sure exactly where all W&L funds
are invested.

DeLaney said his group found that
WA&L is associated with IBM and that
IBM had once manufactured compu-
ters for the South African govern-
ment. When Law Professor William
S. Geimer contacted the corporation
on behalf of the group, however, he
found it had stopped making the com-
puters two years ago.

“This way, we didn’t have mud on
our face,’’ DeLaney said. “In this
way, we avoided an embarrassing
situation by finding out the facts
first, before acting.”

DeLaney said the EC had an obli-
gation to oppose the South African
government. ‘‘Consider the ethics of
the EC and the University,” he said.
“The ethics of apartheid are the an-
tithesis of the traditions of the EC
and W&L.”’

 

Drugs

 

 

(] Continued from Page 1
appointment, it could anyway.

Crutchfield made the motion to appoint a ‘‘non-white,”’

minority ad hoc member to the SCC.

Secretary-elect Mike Webb said such a member would
not be necessary. ‘‘I don’t speak for the 22 blacks on
campus, but I don’t feel that I need a black ad hoc mem-
ber to feel I’m being represented fairly,”’ he said.

Tomaso, who supported the resolution, said, ‘‘Myself,
{junior representative] Mike [Black] and Cole went
to the...SABU house and talked to the members and this
problem has to be addressed from what I saw. It became
clear in the meeting that they perceive a problem.”’

Dalton, who opposed the resolution, said, ‘‘Do you feel
that when a black man is in front of the EC that you can
overlook the fact that he is black? I feel that I can.”

©) Continued from Page 1
“Before, we never knew when we fouled up,’’ Tomaso

said. “It was as if we were left alone and told we had

committed a violation after we had already done it.”’

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

Mon.-Sat, 9-12

New!

We Now Have

Nachos

Hot Dogs

Popcorn

 

“T realize that it is dangerous to say what's a violation
and what isn’t, but I don’t think we have made a big
statement,’’ he added.

The EC did vote to change the wording of one of the
major offenses, ‘‘theft offenses and fraud offenses refer-
red to the Student Control Committee by the Executive
Committee’’ to ‘‘offenses referred to the Student Control
Committee by the Executive Committee.”

They also recommended moving “the use of racial,
ethnic, religious or sexual slurs directed to an individ-
ual’’ from a major offense to a minor offense.

between Lexington and Rockbridge
last May. Under the agreement,
Lexington would have received seven
cents for each $100 of county real
estate in return for dropping its
annexation intentions.

The state Commission on Local
Government, however, issued a re-
port in February saying the agree-
ment was unfavorable to Lexington
and would harm the city economical-
ly in the fuuture. They encouraged
the localities to renegotiate, setting
Tuesday as the deadline for a new
agreement.

None was able to be reached, how-
ever, as Phillips announced at a news
conference with Board of Supervi-
sors Chairman Daniel R. Snider.

 

SERVIGTAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

    

House For Rent

Four or five-bedroom house
(1% Baths)
Available for Students
Two blocks from W&L

 

Girard

() Continued from Page 1

Subpoenaed in the case were five
witnesses and Girard’s long distance
telephone records for December
through March.

Four witnesses for the Common-
wealth testified to this chain of
events leading to Girard’s arrest (the
fifth witness did not testify) :

Sgt. Wayne Straub of the Lexington
Police Department testified that he
received a tip Feb. 27 from an infor-
mant regarding a $1,453 money order
sent by Girard to Miami. The infor-
mant, whom Straub did not identify,
advised the Lexington Police Depart-
ment that the money might be pay-
ment for a shipment of narcotics at a
later date, according to the testi-
mony.

Acting on this tip, Straub contin-
ued, he contacted the Roanoke office
of Federal Express. Employees
there were asked to watch for pack-
ages to Lexington from Miami for
two specific people, one of whom was
Girard, according to testimony by
Gary Pratt, Roanoke operations
manager of Federal Express. When
Mann asked Pratt to identify the
other person, he said he did not
remember the name.

Straub testified that two days later,
he received a telephone call from
Pratt about a ‘‘questionable’’ pack-
age that had come in. Straub, in the
company of state police officers’
went to Roanoke to pick up the pack-
age. Girard was arrested later that
day.

In Roanoke, a state police drug dog
reacted to the envelope, Straub said.
Straub then accompanied Pratt and
the package to Lexington in a Feder-
al Express van. They then met with
Hall at the Thrifty Inn in Lexington,
where another drug dog twice ‘“‘alert-
ed’’ on the parcel, he said.

Pratt testified that after the pack-
age arrived in Roanoke, he called a
Lexington telephone number on the
address label to ask directions. He
said he was not sure whom to ask for
when he called the number.

“TI saw this package...to Babe
Ruth,” Pratt testified. “I almost
started laughing — you know, gimme
a break.” He said he asked for a “Mr.
Ruth,” but that the person on the
phone sounded confused and told
Pratt that he would have to speak to
the person’s roommate.

Pratt said he asked the second per-
son if he was ‘‘Gene or Gerald Gi-
rard” and that the person identified
himself as ‘‘Gene,” and told Pratt to
deliver the package to the East Lex-
ington store.

Both Straub and Hall testified that
they waited in the back room of the
store for Girard to pick up the pack-
age. Girard arrived at the store at
about 2 p.m., according to the offi-
cers and James Bowen, owner of the
store.

Bowen testified that Girard called
him the day before the arrest to ask if
he could have a package delivered to
the store and once about two hours
before the arrest to check whether a
package for him had been received.

After the officers arrived, they told
Bowen they had a package for Gi-
rard. The next time Girard called to
ask about his package, Bowen said he
told him he had a package for him.
Bowen said the officers instructed
him to go to the back room when Gi-
rard asked for his parcel.

W&L senior Roger Dunnavan, one
of two students who live with Girard,
had been subpoenaed to testify Fri-
day. At the start of the hearing, Ca-

 

baniss asked if Dunnavan was in the
courtroom, When no one responded,
Cabaniss asked Mann if he would
agree to enter in the record that
Dunnavan gave Girard a ride to the
store on March 1. Mann agreed, ad-
ding that the purpose of the trip was
to buy a soft drink.

Bowen testified that when Girard
entered the store, he looked around
and then left. After a moment, Bowen
said, Girard returned and took a soft
drink to the cash register, patted his
pockets as if looking for money, and
told Bowen that he had none.

According to Bowen, Girard then
asked if he could pay for the drink at
another time. Bowen said he told
Girard that was all right and then
asked him if he wanted his package.

Bowen said that he and Girard then
walked to the back room where
Straub, dressed in a Federal Express
uniform, and Hall, who was in his
sheriff’s uniform, were waiting.

“When we made eyeball contact,
he turned and ran,”’ Hall said, adding
that he called to Girard to stop but
that he refused. ‘I had to run as fast
as I could to catch him,” Hall said. “I
physically grabbed him to stop.”’

Hall said he and Girard returned to
the back room, where the officer
read Girard his rights and placed
him under arrest.

In his closing statement, Mann,
said, “‘There are so many problems
with this case that I can’t believe
we're here before the court.”

Girard did not call any witnesses,
but Mann cross-examined the
Commonwealth’s witnesses.

Cabaniss clarified the Common-
wealth’s position by saying the case
hinged on the legal term ‘‘dominion,
and control,” which Black’s Law dic-
tionary defines as relating ‘‘to au-
thority over what is not in one’s phy-
sical possession.”’

Washington and Lee Law Profes-
sor Roger D. Groot explained that es:
tablishing “dominion and control” is
necessary to convict a defendant for
“constructive possession” of an ob-
ject.

A person can be convicted on either
actual or constructive possession,
Groot said. ,

Staff Reporter Mike Stachura con-
tributed to this story.

Ex-student —
sentenced in.
cocaine case.

A former Washington and Lee stu-
dent has agreed to ‘‘provide testi-
mony as a state’s witness’’ as part of
a plea agreement with Common:
wealth’s Attorney Beverly C. ‘‘John’’
Read.

Marshall L. Shearin Jr., a senior
last year, pleaded guilty Friday in
Rockbridge Circuit Court to one
count each of distributing and con-
spiring to sell cocaine.

He was given a five-year suspend-
ed sentence, placed on probation for
five years and must undergo urinaly-
sis monthly.

The plea agreement stipulated that
Shearin is to “cooperate with en-
forcement authorities.’’ Read drop-
ped two of the counts of selling co-.,
caine on which Shearin was indicted. .

Shearin pleaded guilty to selling
cocaine in Lexington in December
1982 and conspiring to distribute co-
caine in Lexington on April 16, 1983.

He will not face prosecution for
charges that he sold cocaine in Lex+
ington in March 1983 and on May 28,
1983.

 

 

 

   
 

 

Call 463-3739 a

 

 

Stockbroker
Trainee

pportunity in Virginia
each for hard-working, en-
thusiastic individual. Send
resume to:

 

 

First Jersey Securities, Inc.
P.O. Box 8814
Virginia Beach, VA 23450

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

203 N. Main St.

 

The New Opticians

Eye Care Center
Glasses - Contacts - Repairs

Ray-Bans 10% Off With Ad

 

 

__ 463-7440

 

 

 

PIZZA
S2OFF! |

SALE:

 

of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. FP So
come on in. Bring the whole

 

   

 

— , Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered .

1 $2

1 $2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan

' Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at

# afigina ing Pizza Hut®
restaurants.

Please present coupon when ordering. Not valid in combination with any other offer 1 20 cent
a cash redemption value. © 1983 Pizza Hut, Inc. Good only through

- $4
rm Better ary to your home | family. () We'll = on layers:
town Pizza Hut® restaurant! | of pure mozzarella cheese and:
It’s not often you save this kind | all your favorite toppings.

on
Pizza

  

oa

There’s no better time to try’
our unparalleled Pizza Hut®
Pan Pizza. See you soon! |

 

 

; ee

Sqr i

a
ft
600 E. Nelson St. >
Lexington, VA
a
kK
i

453-7000

ae

5-15-85
The Ring-tum Phi, May 2, 1985, Page 5

‘Here’s the beef — on the beef in Lexington

 

By TED BYRD
Staff Reporter

 

The cheapest burgers

 

Whether you're attracted by McDonald’s ‘“‘Two all
beef patties...” Wendy’s ‘‘Where’s the Beef?” or
Lloyd's location near campus, a variety of hamburgers
ranging in price from $.52 cents to $3.75 are available in
Lexington.

Three Lexington restaurants known particularly for
their burgers are Wendy’s, Lloyd’s of Lexington and
McDonald's. All three have simple hamburgers and
cheeseburgers in addition to “glorified burgers,”’ which
ie be garnished with anything from a special sauce to

acon.

Wendy’s has four burgers that a customer may choose
from, and all are made with fresh ground meat that is
formed into patties in the restaurant, according to store
manager Joan Plogger, Wendy’s has three basic bur-
gers: the single, which is made with one quarter pound
patty; the double, made with two patties; and the triple,
made with three patties. Wendy’s one ‘‘glorified burger’’

‘is a bacon cheeseburger that is made with a quarter

pound patty, cheese and bacon. All of the burgers come

* with a choice of mayonnaise, ketchup, pickles, onion, let-

tuce and mustard. Tomatoes and cheese are available at

_an extra cost of 10 and 20 cents. The single costs $1.25,

the double $2.05, the triple $2.55 and the bacon cheese-

-_ burger $1.80.

McDonald's, Wendy's chief competition, according to
Plogger, offers a wider variety of pre-made burgers at

"prices ranging from $.52 for a hamburger to $1.39 for a

Quarter Pounder with cheese. A McDonald’s hamburger

 

a me -

1.25

 

gee!

OLD FASHIONED

HAMBURGERS

.70 3.75

 

 

 

  

 

 

or a cheeseburger, which costs $.62, comes with ketchup,
mustard, onion and pickles. A Quarter Pounder, made
with a one quarter pound patty, costs $1.25 and comes
with the same toppings as the hamburger. The McDon-
ald’s Big Mac, for $1.35, is made with two hamburger-
size patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles and
onions, just like the commercial says. McDonald’s also
has a double hamburger and a double cheeseburger,

 

Contact sponsors

which are the same as their regular counterparts except
that they come with two patties. The double cheese-
burger, which usually costs $1.25, is on special until May
5 for $1.15. Both double burgers usually have to be asked
for and made specially. McDonald’s hamburger patties
arrive at the restaurant pre-formed and frozen.

Both Wendy's and McDonald's say they seek a general
clientele.

Lloyd’s of Lexington has a menu similar to McDon-
ald’s except that it features a double bacon cheesebur-
ger. The basic Lloyd’s burger comes with mustard, ket-
chup and pickles, and lettuce and tomato $.10 extra, but
shift manager David Felts said anything can be put on
them. The hamburgers and $.59 and the cheeseburgers
$.69. The patties are made with fresh meat and weigh
between 2'% and three ounces. Lloyd’s double bacon
cheeseburger, for $1.69, is made with two hamburger
patties, bacon and cheese. The Big Quarter, also $1.69, is
made with a quarter pound patty and comes with let-
tuee, tomato, mayonnaise, onion, pickles and cheese.
Lloyd’s basically seeks a student clientele.

Three other restaurants that specialize in or feature
hamburgers, and may not be as well known, are The
Palms, Estelle’s and Kenney’s of Lexington.

The Palms specializes in the ‘‘glorified burger.”’ All
burgers are made with one-third pound patties, and any-
thing you want can be put on them, according to man-
ager Bob Campbell. The meat is usually fresh, but oc-
casionally is frozen. The Palms’ best-selling burgers,
Campbell said, are the Beta and the Heart of Texas. The
Beta comes with tomato, onion, lettuce, cheddar cheese
and bacon and is served on a Kaiser roll. The Heart of
Texas burger comes with bacon, cheddar cheese and the

Palms’ barbecue sauce. Both are $3.75.

Other burgers offered include a Muffin Burger, which
comes with bacon and cheddar on a toasted English Muf-
fin, and is also $3.75 and a Plain Jane, which comes with
blue cheese, is served on a Kaiser roll, and is $3.50. All
burgers are served with potato curls.

Estelle’s, like Wendy’s, uses only fresh meat for its

hamburgers. The burgers are made to order, and a plain
hamburger is $.80 and a cheeseburger $1. Both are made
with a quarter-pound patty, and lettuce and tomato are
$.15 extra. Three or four times a week Estelle’s also has
a bacon cheeseburger (quarter-pound patty, bacon and
cheese), iced tea, a choice of two vegetables, including
french fries and a piece of cake. Occasionally a Muzzi
Burger is also offered, which is a regular hamburger
topped with Mozzarella cheese, a strip of bacon, lettuce,
tomato and mayonnaise. Estelle’s likes to cater to stu-
dents, according to manager Michele Campbell, ‘“‘and as
long as they come in and behave I think as much of one
as the other.”’

Kenny’s of Lexington, which is located behind the
Greyhound bus station, is probably the least known of
the restaurants included here. Its ground meat is usual-
ly fresh but occasionally frozen. The basic hamburger,
for $.70, is made with a two-ounce patty and comes with
Kenney’s special sauce, mustard and onion. A cheese-
burger, with the same extras, is $.80 . Lettuce, tomato
and mayonnaise is $.15 extra, and pickles are $.05 extra.
A Double K burger, for $1.25, is made with two patties on
a three-layer bun and comes with lettuce, Thousand Is-
land dressing and cheese. A Big K burger, $1.24, is made
with a quarter pound burger and comes with lettuce, to-
mato, mayonnaise, pickles and ketchup.

College students without strong re-
ligious beliefs are more likely to be-

-. lieve in such paranormal phenomena
as ghosts, ESP and good luck

charms, according to a recently pub-

*. lished study by two Washington and

vhighly religious
Stronger beliefs in phenomena such

.Lee professors and a former student.

Conversely, the study shows that
students have

as life after death and angels.
The study, published in the winter

* "1985 edition of the Virginia Social

.

+

+

‘

Science Journal, is titled ‘Nonreli-
gious Paranormal Beliefs Among
College Students: Are They A Func-
tional Alternative?’’ It was conduct-
ed by psychology Professor David G.
Eimes and associate sociology Pro-
fessor O. Kendall White Jr. along
with George U. Carneal III, a 1983
W&L graduate currently pursuing
graduate studies at Yale University.

The study is based upon data col-
lected from a survey of 230 under-
graduate students from nine south-
western Virginia colleges and univer-
sities who completed a four-part
questionnaire.

LIDS

Prof finds religion lowers
-belief in ESP, ghosts

The respondents were asked about
the strength of their beliefs in the
Loch Ness monster, UFOs, the devil
and the efficacy of prayer, among
other items.

The W&L team concluded that the
non-religious paranormal beliefs
may be a functional alternative to
ordinary religion. But the findings
indicate that such beliefs generally
are not as strong as religious para-
normal beliefs and do not lead to the
personal emotional characteristics
that seem to be associated with
strong religious beliefs.

White recently was named the reci-
pient of a Mednick Fellowship for
research and advanced study.

White is one of 11 professors from
Virginia colleges to receive the fel-
lowships, offered through the Virgin-
ia Foundation for Independent Col-
leges, which administers the Mau-
rice L. Mednick Memorial Fund.

White will use the fellowship to con-
duct research in Utah this summer
on the social contradictions in Mor-
mon family life.

FLIP

SIDE

Presents

talk tonight at 8

Anthony H. Harrigan, president
of the United States Business and
Industrial Council, will speak
tonight at 8 in Northen Auditori-
um.

Harrigan’s speech, titled
“International Trade and Amer-
ica’s Industrial Crisis,” is spon-
sored by Contact '85, the speaker
symposium.

Harrigan is the author, co-
author or editor of 15 books and
numerous essays in leading jour-
nals in the United States, Canada
and Europe. He writes and lec-
tures on economic issues, national
defense, foreign affairs and
American values, among other
themes.

Harrigan also writes a syn-
dicated column published by more
than 200 newspapers. William
Hamel, publisher of the Mattoon,
Ill., Journal Gazette described the
column as ‘‘a great commentary
on the American scene.”’

Harrigan’s column topics have
ranged from a small-college com-
mencement to legislation affec-
ting energy, the economy and na-
tional defense.

 

 

 

Tunes Cool For Cats

On LP
&
Cassettes

463-9494

S

27 West Nelson Street, Lexington

 

 

LUTHER VANDROSS
THE NIGHT | FELL IN LOVE

including:
‘Til My Baby Comes Home/It's Over N
The Night | Fell In Love
if Only For One Night/Creepin’

 

$6.99

Smooth Operator/Your Love Is King

When Am | Going To Make A Living

 

SADE

iISHAR-D AY)
DIAMOND LIFE

including:

Hang On To Your Love

Cherry Pie

MICK JAGGER |

 

TEENA MARIE
STARCHILD

including:
Lovergirl / Jammin /We've Got To Stop
Young blood / Out On A Limb/Starchild

 

SHE’S THE BOSS

including:
Just Another Night/Hard Woman

 

USA tor AFRICA

WE ARE THE WORLD
featuriny

BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN &
THE E STREET BANO— Trapped
PRINCE & THE REVOLUTION

4 The Tears in Your Eyes

KENNY ROGERS--A Little More Love
THE POINTER SISTERS—Just A Little Closer
USA for AFRICA-—We Are The Worid

  

 
 
 

Ve A Loaf/Lucky In Love
Lonely At The Top

 
 
 
   
     
   
 
   

 

         

KENNY LOGGINS
VOX HUMANA

including:
Vox Humana/No Lookin’ Back
I'm Gonna Do It Right/Forever 4
Let There Be Love

 

 

Updating the W&L Catalogue

‘They,’ ‘them’ replace ‘he,’ ‘him’; Rush section deleted

 

By ROB DORAIS
Staff Reporter

 

The 1985-86 University Catalogue
has a few changes from that of pre-
vious years, including references to
sex, fraternities and athletics.

Gender—specific nouns such as
“he” and ‘“‘him’’ have been replaced
by ‘‘they’’ and “‘them’”’ when refer-
ence is made to students in the cata-
log.

Jeffery G. Hanna, news office di-
rector and acting director of publica-
tions, said he “worked with trying to
make the language consistent, to re-
move references to gender.”’

“It was just something that needed
to be done,”’ he added.

Sections of the catalog are sent to
different individuals who are respon-
sible for making changes in each sec-
tion, Hanna said.

Dean of Students Lewis G. John re-
ceived the section on fraternities. He
said the section on Rush activities
was removed from the catalog be-
cause it was incorrect.

‘Rather than tying it down and be-
ing specific on changes that would be

made later,” the section was deleted
this year, he said.

Hanna said that the additions to the
section on athletics ‘‘clearly needed
to be consistent with the athletic de-
partment.’’ It contains a projection
for women’s sports that is necessar-
ily vague because the athletic depart-

ment wants to take the interests of
the entering women into account.

One out of five pictures in next
year’s catalog include women, com-
pared with one out of seven photos
last year.

Catalogs are available from the re-
gistrar’s office in Reid Hall.

Publications director, 60, dies today

Romulus T. Weatherman, director
of University publications and man-
aging editor of the alumni magazine,
died early this morning in a Charlot-
tesville hospital. He was 60.

Mr. Weatherman had been ill since
August, and news office director Jef-
fery G. Hanna had taken over many
of his duties, which included direct-
ing the production and editing of
W&L’s publications, including the U-
niversity Catalogue.

A 1950 graduate of Wake Forest U-
niversity, Mr. Weatherman worked
as a reporter, city editor and editor-
ial writer for newspapers in States-
ville, where he was born, and Win-
ston-Salem, N.C.

Mr. Weatherman also worked as
director of the office of information

of the Bowman Gray School of Medi-
cine at Wake Forest and as the direc-
tor of alumni activities and editor of
the Wake Forest magazine before
coming to W&L in 1967.

Hanna today cited Mr. Weather-
man’s ability to produce a wide
range of good materials with a rela-
tively small staff.

“He was a perfectionist who would
not settle for anything but the very
best work, especially from himself,”
Hanna said. ‘‘He was a very creative
person, and I think that showed in the
materials he produced.”

Mr. Weatherman is survived by his
wife, Mrs. Clara Belle LeGrand
Weatherman, and three children.

Funeral arrangments were incom-
plete this morning.

 

 

 

 

 

Theres no

doubt youre going
to make it in
the real world,

but what
about

 

 

 

 

   

r’

Ford and Lincoln-Mercury have
$400 for graduating seniors toward the
purchase of selected cars and trucks.

Ford Motor Credit also has preapproved credit for qualified graduating seniors.
Offers end August 15, 1985. For more information call Ford College Graduate

Purchase Program Headquarters at 1-800-321-1536.

FORD - LINCOLN - MERCURY

D>

 

 
SPORTS

Netters
control
ODACs

BY LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

 

After a win over Division I Radford
and a dominating performance in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championships, the Washington and
Lee tennis team can only be content
to sit on its record and wait for the
decision.

The ‘‘decision” is Monday’s an-
nouncement by the NCAA’s selection
committee of the eight teams that
will receive bids to the national
championships, being held at W&L in
two weeks.

Currently, W&L is ranked eighth in
the tennis coaches’ poll, one of the
criteria used to determine the eight
teams selected. But because the ac-
tual selection process is decided by a
special panel, and because there are
other teams very close to W&L, the
Generals are by no means assured a
spot at nationals.

The Generals concluded their con-
ference season on a very positive
note. Indeed, to say the team played
well at the ODAC championships is to
say that the nuclear arsenals of the
United States and the Soviet Union
have some destructive capability.

The team completely dominated
play, winning five of the six singles
championships and all three of the
doubles flights to capture 71 of the
possible 72 team points and claim its
sixth ODAC crown in the eight years
of the conference’s existence. All
told, W&L won 26 of 27 individual
matches it played during the week-
end.

Freshman David McLeod was in
top form at No. 1, rallying to beat
Lynchburg’s Max Henderson in the
finals, 3-6, 7-5, 6-4. For his efforts,
McLeod was named ODAC Player-of-
the-Year.

Trackmen

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee track
team finished second in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference out-
door championships at Wilson Field
last Saturday.

The Generals finished 21 points be-
hind first place Lynchburg, which
scored 169 points. Bridgewater fi-
nished third with 91 points. Emory
and Henry, Eastern Mennonite and
Roanoke finished fourth, fifth and
sixth respectively.

“We didn’t lose the meet,’’ said
head track coach Norris Aldridge,
“Lynchburg won it.’’ He added, ‘‘We
couldn’t have run any better than we
did. We got outstanding perfor-
mances from everyone! I am not dis-
appointed at all in the team.”’

This year’s team actually did bet-
ter than last year’s outdoor
championship team, scoring seven
more points at the meet.

W&L captured first place in three
events. Mark Pembroke won the 800
meters (1:57.9), Andy White took
first in the 110-meter hurdles (15.4)
and Tom Murray won the shot put

Maroons

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

Given a final score of 20-6, you'd
guess the Washington and Lee la-
crosse team might have just lost to
North Carolina, Johns Hopkins or
possibly Virginia.

How about Roanoke?

No, never.

Guess again.

W&L head coach Dennis Daly was
left speechless by Wednesday’s de-
feat at the hands of the No. 5-ranked
Division III Maroons.

‘Who would have believed it?’’ the
Generals’ second-year mentor said.
“T can’t explain it.”

“TI know this is a bad dream and I
didn’t wake up yet on Wednesday,
May 1,” Daly said.

W&L fell behind early. The Ma-
roons raced to an 8-1 lead in the first
21 minutes of play and never looked
back from there.

Roanoke dominated play through-
out the game. The Maroons had the
edge in ground balls (73-49), faceoffs
(20-9) and shots (44-25).

“We just got outplayed,” Daly
said. ‘‘We played badly, and they
played well.”

Roanoke head coach John Pirro,
who got his first win over W&L in his
four years at the Maroon helm (Roa-
noke has beaten W&L twice before, in
1978 and 1979), said the victory was

“a big momentum builder’’ for his
team as it heads toward the Division
III national tournament, but indi-
cated that ‘‘anytime you beat W&L in
Lexington, whether you are 10-0 or
0-10, it’s a big win.”’

Pirro cited the play of goalie Bill
Pilat (19 saves). ‘‘He did an excellent

JACK MESSERLY ... ODAC No. 3 singles champ

Sophomore No. 2 Roby Mize was
tested by Hampden-Sydney’s Rock
Godsy before winning the finals 6-2,
6-7, 6-1. Freshman Jack Messerly,
who had suffered through a slump
most of the year, showed that his
game of spin variation and control is
back, losing only four games on the
way to the title at No. 3.

At No. 4, senior captain Andy Har-

give ‘best,

(45’ 9”).

Chris McGowan set a new W&L re-
cord in the 400 meters with his third-
place time of 49.9 seconds:

Although the team’s season is now
over, several Generals will compete
this weekend at the James Madison
Invitational and next weekend at the
University of Virginia Invitational in
their attempts to qualify for the
NCAA Division III National Cham-
pionships. Mark Pembroke will be
trying to make the qualifying time
for the 800 meters; he needs to run
the distance in 1:53.3. Andy White
will be trying to qualify for the 110-
meter hurdles. In addition to Pem-
broke and White, Townes Pressler,
Tom Murray, John Carder and John
White will also participate in these
meets in their attempts to qualify for
the nationals.

With the season over, the Generals
have fallen short of accomplishing
both of the team’s pre-season goals.
The Generals did capture the indoor
title, but failed to repeat as the out-
door champ. Senior captain Chris
Ives said, ‘‘Everybody did the best
that they could do. We knew that we
gave our best and we can’t be upset
about that.”

The Ring-tum Phi

 

By Bruce Potter/The Ring-tum Phi

ing maintained his consistency, win-
ning his second ODAC singles title at
that spot. Junior Scott Adams closed
out the Generals’ singles titles by
winning every set in claiming the ti-
tle at No. 6, including a 6-2, 6-2 win in
the finals.

The Generals’ only singles loss

See Tennis, Page 7

May 2, 1985

Page 6

W&L ‘9’ shocks top-rated L-burg
in first round of ODAC tourney

 

By WILLIAM KING
and MIKE STACHURA
Staff Reporters

 

Stop the presses!

After suffering through a 5-18
regular season and a last-place finish
in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, the Washington and Lee
baseball Generals snubbed their col-
lective noses at the odds yesterday
afternoon and beat Lynchburg, 8-5, to
advance to the semifinal round of the
ODAC tournament.

W&L broke up a 4-4 contest in the
seventh inning with four runs to beat
the Hornets, the ODAC regular sea-
son champion and the nation’s
seventh-ranked team.

Sophomore pitcher Bill Schoettel-
kotte got his first win as a W&L
hurler in the upset.

The spectacular seventh saw a
lead-off double by Chip Hutchins,
who went four-for-five on the day.
After two outs, a walk to Adam
Yanez was followed by a Bill Curtiss
triple, a Ricky Zahn single and an
Alex Sutton double to register the
four runs.

The Generals will face Bridge-

water in Saturday afternoon’s semi-

final. The finals are slated for Satur-
day evening.

In other action last week, W.&L
closed out its regular season by drop-
ping a doubleheader to Randolph-
Macon in Ashland and splitting a dou-
bleheader with Radford at home.

Against R-M, W&L got off to a good
start in the first game, only to see the
Yellow Jackets capitalize on six Gen-
eral errors and win going away, 12-2.

R-M knotted the score at 2-2 in the
bottom of the second on a two-out,
two-run homer off W&L starter Bill
Schoettelkotte and went ahead in the
third 5-2 by scoring three runs on a
pair of walks, a single and a double.

W&L cut the lead to 5-3 in the four-
th, but the Yellow Jackets responded
with two runs of their own in the fifth.
W&L’s Carter Steuart doubled home

’ finish second

 

W&L’s Townes Pressler clears the bar.

 

oe

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

give Daly a ‘bad dream’

job, but then he didn’t score 20
goals.”

The Maroon loss came on the heels
of the Generals’ 18-12 victory over
Bucknell on Saturday, ending a 56-
day losing streak.

W&L led throughout the game and

Goalie John DiDuro awaits a Roanoke

broke it open in the fourth quarter
after the Bison had cut the W&L lead
to 12-9. Jeff Mason, Bill Holmes and
Rod Santomassimo scored three un-
answered goals to pace the Generals
to a 6-3 last period to earn W&L the
win,

shot.

“Tam very pleased that we finally
got some positive reinforcement in
the form of a win. We have come
close in some of our other games and
it is gratifying to win one,”’ Daly said

See Lacrosse, Page7

 

By Cotion Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Zahn in the sixth to make the score
7-4, but R-M quickly ended the possi-
bility of a W&L rally by scoring twice
in the bottom half of the inning. The
Generals managed to add a run inthe
seventh, leaving the score 9-5.

Schoettlekotte went the distance
for W&L, surrendering nine runs (six
earned) and 10 hits while striking out
four.

In the second game, the Generals
again started strongly only to fade in
the later innings. W&L scored twice
in the second on singles by Finkels-
tein, Bill Curtiss, Ricky Zahn and
Chuck Nelson to lead 2-0, but again
botched a possible big inning by leav-
ing the bases loaded.

W&L took an early 1-0 lead after
Chip Hutchins opened the game with
a double and scored on Milam Tur-
ner’s single. The Generals appeared
to be on the verge of a big inning but
failed to score a run after loading the
bases with one out.

R-M tied the game in the bottom of
the first and took the lead for good in
the third when it scored three runs on
a solo home run, a single and two er-
rors.

W&L cut the deficit to 5-2 in the
fifth when Hutchins led off with a sin-
gle, went to third on Turner's single
and scored on Hugh Finkelstein’s
sacrifice fly. - |

R-M killed all hope of a Generals’
comeback in the bottom of the fifth
when it scored three runs on four con-
secutive singles off W&L starter Billy
White, making the score 8-2.

R-M turned the game into a blow-
out in the sixth by scoring four runs
to make the final score 12-2.

White pitched 514 innings before
being relieved by Peter Detlefs in the
sixth. He allowed 12 runs (eight of
which were earned), nine hits and
struck out seven.

W&L saw its losing streak extend-
ed to five games in the opener of its
doubleheader with Radford, losing a
tough 5-3 decision.

Radford scored once in the first in-
ning against freshman Eric Acra,

One is too many

 

who was making his first start of the
season. W&L tied the game in the
second when Curtiss singled with one
out. Pinch runner Mike Suttle stole
second and scored on a pair of Rad-
ford errors.

The Highlanders moved back into
the lead 2-1 in the fourthe’”’, but W&L
bounced back with two runs in the
bottom of the inning to lead 3-2.
Schoettlekotte led off the inning with
his second home run of the season to
tie the game, and Curtiss later singl-
ed and scored on Adam Yanez’ sin-
gle.

Radford pulled ahead for the last
time in the fifth on a couple of walks
given up by Acra and a two-run dou-
ble to lead 4-3 and added another run
in the seventh for the final score of
5-3.

Acra turned in a solid performanoe
for W&L, scattering 10 hits over
seven innings and allowing only two
earned runs.

In the second game, W&L stormed
back from a seven-run deficit to take
an extra-inning 9-8 victory.

Freshman Sully Renuart got off to
a rough start on the mound in the sec-
ond game as Radford soored seven
runs in the first and second innings.
Renuart, who was hurt by three Gen-
erals’ errors in the first, was relieved
by Detlefs with two outs in the sec-
ond.

W&L began its comeback in the
fifth when Yanez smacked a two-run
homer after freshman Carmen Cle-
ment had singled. Freshman Don.
Thayer followed with a single and
scored on White’s double. White
made the score 7-4 when he scored on

Turner’s ground ball. -

Radford looked as if it would re- =
gain control of the game in the sixth -
when it scored once, but Detlefs was
able to work his way out of a bases- ~ ©
loaded jam to prevent the Highland-
ers from increasing their lead.

The Generals tied the game at 8-8
in the sixth. Schoettlekotte scored on

CO See Baseball, Page 7

 

 

....1 was going to start this week’s
nonsense off by saying how little it
‘ TIM E would grieve me to see some type of
OUT excrutiatingly painful home acci-

~~ *** dent befall George Steinbrenner, but
By Mike | won't. It wouldn’t be fair, he’s too
disgusting for an accident.
Stachura “No, this isn’t a paid political an-
: L nouncement for the Save Yogi
campaign. It’s just so obvious that Steinbrenner is out of line this time
that something had to be said.

It is said that there are people like George Steinbrenner in the world,
let alone in baseball, and this latest gem is reason enough for condem-
nation of the man.

Steinbrenner’s reasons for disposing of Yogi appear to center
around the problem of team discipline (Yogi scheduled a practice
April 22, but didn’t — horrors — make it mandatory.) Certainly cou-
pled with that were the Yankees’ last-place standing in the American
League East and their three one-run losses over the weekend.

If such were the case and we were in the middle of the season,
perhaps Steinbrenner’s action wouldn’t be so reprehensible. But
George said, ‘‘It’s never too early in the American League East.”

I don’t buy one word from Cigar Man. Yogi is, was and always will
be good for the game. Steinbrenner is not, never was and never will be
good for the game.

Why? Let's look at two simple statements from both men: Yogi said
of the current slump, ‘‘He [Steinbrenner] must think we don’t have
feelings, too. We don’t like to lose either."’ Steinbrenner said of the fir-
ing in a statement that he ‘‘would rather fire 25 players than to fire
Yogi, but we all know that would be impossible." Especially because
you spent so much getting them in pinstripes (i.e., Yogi’s expendable).

Big George’s quote doesn’t quite make sense to me. If it’s the
players who aren’t doing the job, why do we decide to fire the
manager? One wonders, as Dave Anderson’s column on Sunday ex-
plicitly stated, if George was just waiting to insert Billy Martin in the
managerial slot, for any reason he could think of.

Yogi’s statement is the simple reflection of a man fed up with having
to work with Steinbrenner. Steinbrenner stated point blank in spring
training that Yogi’s job was secure regardless of what kind of start the
Yankees had. You’d never have put such a statement with George
given the recent actions of the original hatchet man.

So, here we have a man saying he has a bad team and then firing the
manager, and also saying he’s not going to fire the manager and then
firing the manager. About as logical as having George Steinbrenner in
charge of a baseball club.

In all, we have a clash of baseball the way it should be and baseball
the way it is. Yogi brings to mind days when baseball was a game and
voluntary practices were OK, when losing three one-run games ina
row simply meant bad luck and when managing was something one
guy in a baseball uniform did by himself without any help from those

   
 

 

 

not wearing baseball uniforms. i

Steinbrenner doesn’t bring to mind these ideas. Steinbrenner is
money and winning, that’s all.

We need more Yogis. We need less Steinbrenners, one is already too
many....

....Strolling down the Colonnade, tip of the cap to senior wrestling
captain Jeff Dixon on his academic All-American selection. A much
deserved award for the champion both on and off the mat...Generals
roar through ODAC tennis over weekend. Next step is to roar through
NCAA team bid selection committee on Monday...Nothing for track
and field to be discouraged about. Second place is a fine performance
and when one looks at the missing or injured bodies for W&L, one is
amazed they even came so close...Make it a point to get out and see the
rugby gents Saturday afternoon (1:30). They’re a hard-working group
that toils (successfully) in obscurity...

...The NBA playoffs have yet to be exciting, and why don’t we just
cancel the Western Division, give it to L.A. so they can get beat by one
of the semi-real teams in the East...What we need instead of expanded
double- and triple-header NBA action is a couple of good NHL playoff
games on TV...And while we're onit, the only thing worse than an NBA
playoff game on TV is having to listen to the commentary of WTBS’
Rick Barry and Bill Russell. Listen to them for five minutes and you
begin to wonder if they were really that good at basketball to begin
with....

....18 the USFL really a sports organization or an ABC miniseries? I
know which it would work better as...If you’re wondering about the
Kentucky Derby this weekend, it will be relatively exciting for a
change, that is the race. Put your money on Eternal Prince. I might....

 

 
 

Tennis

 

Continued From Page 6
came in the finals at No. 5, where
freshman Chris Wiman, who has
been in numerous close matches
throughout the season, fell in three
sets, 3-6, 6-4, 6-2.

W&L had even greater success in
doubles. Each of the three teams
made it through the championships
without losing a set.

McLeod and Messerly continued to
mesh together as the South Atlantic
region’s top-rated team, winning the
No. 1 final, 6-2, 6-1.

Mize and Adams also worked well

together to claim top honors at the
No. 2 doubles flight, winning the
finals, 6-3, 6-0.

The tournament concluded with the
Generals No. 3 doubles team of Har-
ing and Adams winning their final,
6-4, 6-0. ‘

Coach Gary Franke, who was nam-
ed coach of the year, summed up his
feelings about the weekend: ‘‘We’re
very pleased with our champions.’

On Monday, the team played the
powerful Virginia team, losing 6-3
Haring won his match in straight
sets, 6-4, 6-0. Messerly played tough
in his close match, but was unable to
put away a match point and lost 7-5,
4-6, 7-4. W&L’s other victories came
through forfeits.

 

Baseball

 

Continued From Page6é
a passed ball, and Suttle, running for
* Jacoby, scored from second on Cle-
ment’s double. Finkelstein then sin-
gled, scoring Clement, to cut Rad-
‘ ford’s lead to 8-7. Finkelstein reached
, second on an error and tied the game
on White’s single.
“Neither team was able to score in
the seventh and eighth innings. Det-

*

7

The Washington and Lee golf team
finished second in a_ three-team
match in Staunton last Thursday, de-
feating Bridgewater College and los-
ing to Liberty Baptist College.
_ _ W&L shot a team score of 317, its

lowest team score of the year. Junior
» captain Greg Wheeler and freshman
, Gary Campbell led the Generals with

75, followed by Mike Lehman’s 80 and
* Mark Zavatsky’s 82. The Generals
, now have a 5-1 record.

Liberty Baptist fired a team total

 

* From Staff Reports

 

Despite the loss for the spring term
* of long-time starters and team lead-
, ers Bill Jones and David Arthur, the
Washington and Lee Rugby Club is
“ coming off its fifth win of the
+ Spring season in preparation for Sat-
, urday’s game with arch-rival VMI, a
team the W&L group has never beat-
‘ en.
, W&L upped its record to 5-2 last
weekend with a 10-8 win over VMI.
+ Danny Jayne and Jack Clery scored
_ tries to lead the W&L effort.
The win came without the services
of Jones and Arthur, who are spend-

*

Richard Moore, a Washington and

, Lee freshman, won the 10-kilometer

race Sunday in the second annual
* Rockbridge Cancer Runs.

Thomas Vinson of Lexington, cap-

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St.. Lexington. Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

lefs continued to master the High-
landers as he shut them out in the
ninth. W&L got its winning run in the
bottom of the ninth when Yanez drew
a bases-loaded walk, scoring Turner
and snapping the Generals’ five-
game losing streak.

Detlefs had his best performance
of the season against Radford as he
pitched 7% innings in relief to pick up
the win and boost his record to 2-1.
Detlefs’ earned-run-average for the
season stands at 1.23, third in the
ODAC.

Golfers second in tri-meet,
compete in ODACs today

302, and Bridgewater had 321.

W&L is competing today and
tomorrow in Ashland at the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference tour-
nament. The two-day event is being
held at the par-70 Hanover Country
Club course.

“We’ve shown steady improve-
ment recently,’”’ W&L head coach
Buck Leslie said. ‘Whether we've
improved quickly enough will be
shown this week.”

‘Ruggers to clash with VMI

ing the term abroad. Interim cap-
tains P.J. Ierardi and Earl Glazier
have been running the team since the
start of the term.

“We have been practicing hard to
make up for the loss in talent,”’ Ierar-
di said. Jones and Arthur were two of
the team’s leading scorers in the fall
season.

“Things are working out pretty
well,” Ierardi added.

On Saturday, the club will play
against VMI at the parade ground
According to Ierardi, VMI has one of
the top teams in the state. Game time
is 1:30.

“We hope it’s a close game,” Ierar-
di said.

Cancer runners raise $1,600

tured the 5K championship.

A field of 104 runners participated
in the event, which raised more than
$1,600 for the Rockbridge Unit of the
American Cancer Society.

Chinese. and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails
Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4- 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

Phone: 463-3975

George ;

HAIRSTYLIST

136 Varner Lane

Lexington, VA 24450

Hit 4°93
'

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

     
   
    

Mon, - Sat. 8:30 - 6:00
Sun. 1-5

gle

SHOP

117 West Nelson Street

Le

Lexington, Virginia

Enlarged Stock Including:
Blank Cassettes and Newspapers

Most Albums and Cassettes

$5,99.0699

Tuesday, W&L won its final reg-
ular season match, beating Radford,
7-2. The Generals got a strong per-
formance from Adams, who fell be-
hind 3-0 in his third-set tie breaker
but roared back to win the next seven
points and the match.

Such play, coupled with the
Generals’ performance at the con-
ference tournament may seem the
culmination of a team’s season. But
for W&L, a team that is finally hitting
its stride and having each perfor-
mance outshine the previous one,
such a victory in fact may be merely
an hors d’oeuvre.

The national championships may
be the main dish.

Lacrosse

) Continued From Page 6

after the game. But overall, Daly
said his team had played better
games in some of the Generals’ loss-
es, and after the Roanoke game, he
said the Generals had played their
‘worst two games back to back, even
though one was a win.”

In the Bucknell game, W&L was
led by Mark Knobloch (four goals on
four shots), goaltender John DiDuro
(17 saves) and faceoff man Rich
Schoenberg (25 of 29 faceoffs).

Next up for W&L lacrosse is an
away contest Sunday afternoon
against Division I Loyola. The Grey-
hounds have an outside chance for a
bid to the national championship.

ey
Triathlon set

for Sunday

The second Washington and Lee
Triathlon will be held on Sunday.
The event, sponsored by the W&L
Army ROTC, will consist of a 3.1-
mile run, a three-fourths of a mile
swim anda 13-mile bike ride.

The race begins at 9 a.m. at the
Warner Center.

The Triathlon is open to
members of the W&L, VMI and
Lexington communities. Each
participant must provide a sup-
port staff of one person to count
swimming laps and handle the bi-
cycle.

All finishers will receive a
Finisher’s Certificate, and the top
male and female in each category
will receive a division award.

Entry costs are $8 for students
and $10 for adults. For additional
information, contact Capt. Robert
R. Ripple at the W&L ROTC build-

ing.

 

 

 

 

 

Who Qualifies?

credit are:

vehicie payment.

         
    
 

 

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista

 

 

$400 PURCHASE A

The three conditions you must meet to qualify for

e You must have verifiable employment that begins
within 120 days of your vehicle purchase at a salary
sufficient to cover ordinary living expenses and your

   
   

Phase I —

Only three months ago, Borden Commons was presented to the
Lexington community. And thanks to the favorable public response . . .
. and a design to complement its historic setting, our
success has been overwhelming. Only a few units remain to be sold in

a key location . .

Borden Commons — Phase 1.

Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condo-
minium living? A wide variety of floor plans with a selection of interior

layouts are still available.

Borden Commons, Lexington’s first condominium community . . .
to be in the perfect place, now is the perfect time. You'd better act now!

Borden Commons Condominium

 

be

oe:

  

ve

The Ring-tum Phi, May 2, 1985, Page7

COMMONS

Lexington's First Condominium Community

 

       

mo

early a Se

Baker Real Estate
Post Office Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Office — (703) 463-7319

Tom Baker — (703) 463-2510 - evenings
Dick Emrey — (703) 463-4362 - evenings

 

PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM
FORD MOTOR CREDIT COMPANY PLUS A
LLOWANCE FROM FORD

A $400 Allowance.

e You must have proof that you have graduated or will
’e and be awarded at least a bachelor’s

degree within 120 days.
e Your credit record, if you have one, must indicate
payment made as agreed.
Vehicles Included in the Pian.
You may choose a new 1985 Thunderbird,
LTD, Tempo, Mustang, Escort, Bronco II or
light trucks up to F-250, Marquis, Cougar,
Topaz and Lynx.

Courtesy Ford/Mercury

Dealer No. 1916

If you qualify you'll receive a college graduate pur-
chase allowance of $400 when buying an

vehicie from a participating Dealer This $400 allowance
may be utilized as a down payment, or a relimburse-
ment check will be mailed directty to you from Ford.

Ford Motor
Credit

Company

 

 

i)

I Out!

 

 

    
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
    
       

  

 

       
     
 

   
      
   

   

cr

  

261-2112/2113

 
EBack Pag

e

The Ring-tum Phi

Freebies highlight Country Cookin’

 

By PAUL DAVEY
and RUSTY JOHNSON
Restaurant Critics

 

Upon entering Country Cookin’

situated on East Nelson Street next
to the ABC Store), one is struck by
the aura of a train station. Intense
lights create a shimmery glow from
the polyester-clad patrons that seem
to cover every available foot of the
restaurant, much resembling an ant
bed at dusk.

Although the line seemed long, our
group of seven hungry inspectors
was Seated fairly quickly. We had the
full intention of taking advantage of
the unlimited salad, vegetables,
breads and desserts that were pro-
claimed on the bright marquee of the
restaurant.

As in most greasy-spoon truck
stops, the menus also double as
placemats. Also as in most truck
stops, few of the offerings appeared
palatable.

Nine entrees, four platters and four
luncheon specials offer choices rang-
ing from liver and onions to chicken
breast strips to top sirloin steak to

lish delight.’’ As stated, the me-
lange of unlimited items is included
in the price of the entrees, which
range from $3.89 to $6.89.

Our friendly and bright-eyed wai-
tress took our order of one top sirloin,
three steak and gravies, one ribeye
steak, one order of chicken finger
strips and one chopped sirloin. After
attacking the salad bar, we were
served our embarrassingly sparse
entrees. Not even garnished with a

 

 

pickle or parsley — but the idea here
is to feed heavily, not to enjoy a nice-
ly tailored meal. The most fascinat-
ing aspect of the dinners was that the
three items titled ‘‘steak and gravy”
appeared to be exactly the same size.
The similarity of their sizes make
them seem as if they had been pre-
fabricated in a plant far away from
the big country.

The ambiance of the restaurant al-
so leaves something to be desired.
One would expect to find wagon
wheels, steer horns and John Wayne
looking over your shoulder as you
choke down your meal. Yet to one’s
surprise, roughly five framed prints
adorn the north wall, most of which

The Country Cookin’ restaurant located on East Nelson Street.

look like repos from a starving mo-
dern artists’ sale.

In order to fully examine the estab-
lishment, we decided to take a swing
through the men’s room. It was fairly
clean and we were impressed up until
the moment of truth: the wrapper of
the one-ply toilet tissue. The manu-
facturer’s message that it is ‘Ideal
for use with septic tanks’ gave the
impression that the management of
Country Cookin’ does not think too
highly of the restaurant. We left the
men’s room relieved yet concerned.

Near the end of our meal, we decid-
ed to assault the Dessert Bar. We ex-
pected to find deep-dish apple pie,
peach cobbler and pecan pie. How-

   

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

ever, we were sadly met by rows of
Jello and pudding. Our feelings for
the dessert were summed up by a
member of our party who declared,
“Tt tastes like Snak Pak.”’

In sum, Country Cookin’ provides
hot vegetables, a well-stocked salad
bar, and a good place to get filled up
for about $5. But don’t go there look-
ing for a Palm’s atmosphere or a re-
spectable entree. The heart of the re-
staurant — as the sign says — lies in
the unlimited salad-vegetable-des-
sert-roll bar. It’s a place to go for vol-
uminous sustenance. But don’t ex-
pect alcohol or personal checks to be
accepted. Just race in — chow down
and catch the next train out.

‘Dragon’: An 80s update to kung-fu classics

MOVIEREVIEW

By COTTON PURYEAR

 

 

It was only a matter of time before
someone did it, but Berry Gordy and
the folks at Motown have brought
martial arts cult films into the 1980s
with a flying leg kick.

Berry Gordy’s ‘“The Last Dragon”
has all the elements of a traditional
martial arts film — arrogant bad
guys, words of Chinese wisdom and
lots of arms and legs flailing about all
over the screen. The 1980’s update

 

comes with the addition of music
videos and a soundtrack featuring
the likes of Stevie Wonder, Smokey
Robinson, Rockwell, The Tempta-
tions and DeBarge.

The story revolves around Leroy
Green (played by Taimark), a young
black man who spends his time away
from martial arts training walking
about New York City dressed like a
Chinese coolie. Leroy (known about
the neighborhood as “Bruce Lee-
roy”) is quite skilled in the martial
arts and has left his master in search
of ‘‘the glow.”’

What is ‘‘the glow,”’ you ask? Good

question. Leroy describes it as ‘“‘the
final level, when the spirit guides the
body without thought. Your entire
body glows with a beauty that is with-
out bonds.’’ A very impressive sight,
indeed, and it basically means that if
you have ‘‘the glow’’, people tend to
stay out of your way.

Along the way, Leroy comes to the
aid of video music queen Laura
Charles (played by Vanity) who is
being pressured by certified nutcake
Eddie Arcadian to play his girl’s
videos on her show. She refuses, he
kidnaps her, Leroy rescues. Pretty
simple.

A movie-goer must approach “The
Last Dragon’’ with the proper out-
look. While this movie is an action
film, don’t go in expecting Indiana
Jones-type action. The movie has a
good pace, but does get very corny in
several places.

A very hard-core martial arts fan
may be a little disappointed as the
fighting is not the star of the movie.

The film has enough good yucks,
good tunes and good action to make it
worth the price ofadmission. But just
barely. Who knows? Maybe if enough
people go see the movie, the stars can
afford to get last names.

May 2, 1985

4

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, May 2
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILM: ‘‘Death Wish.’”’ Commerce School 327.
7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM: ‘‘Julius Caesar.” (Burge, 1970)

Reid 203.

8 p.m. — FILM: “Dona Flor.”’ In Portuguese, English subtitles. Spon-
sored by history department. Commerce School 221.
8 p.m. — CONTACT LECTURE: Anthony Harrigan. President of U.S.

Industrial Council. Northen.

Monday, May 6
7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM: “‘Hamlet.”’ (Olivier, 1948.) Reid 203.

Wednesday, May 8
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY IN THE COCKPIT: The Stains.

 

 

 

  

Back Doors to play
SAB spring party

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
“The Back Page’”’ Editor

 

When the Back Doors take the
pavilion stage Saturday night, the
crowd will be treated to a perfor-
mance by a man who has spent a
good deal of time convincing himself
that he IS Jim Morrison.

Jim Hakim, lead singer of the Pen-
nsylvania-based Back Doors, began
his study of Morrison after the two
met in a Los Angeles bookstore in
early 1971. Hakim spent four hours
driving around in Morrison’s car,
and the two talked about philosophy,
religion and poetry.

After friends began to tell Hakim
he acted, talked and looked like Mor-
rison, he began doing research,
watching films and talking to Mor-
rison’s friends. He also began to
gather band members from through-
out northeastern Pennsylvania, and
the Back Doors first took to the stage
in January 1981.

Before the Back Doors, Hakim
played with some smaller rock bands
and also worked as a college instruc-
tor and as a physical education
teacher and was the October 1975

1D Bee Se ar

Spring Weekend

Saturday, May 4
8:30 p.m.
at The Student Activities Pavilion

 

IDNGHK aliyzness

 

with
Cry Monday

Tickets *4.00
On Sale Now at W&L Bookstore

PROPER ID REQUIRED
A Cellar Door Production

 

centerfold of Playgirlmagazine. -

Hakim is said to be one of the top‘
prospects to play Morrison in an up- '
coming movie being put together by |
Alan Graham, Morrison’s brother-in-
law, and Morrison’s sister, Anne. The '
other members of the Back Doors
may also be doing the soundtrack
and starring inthe movieaswell. -

Reviews of the band have said that
the crowd will leave the show think-
ing they have actually seen Jim Mor-
rison and the Doors. Despite this, :
Hakim has said that he suffers no ,
identity crisis due to his perfor-
mance. Student Activities Board
Entertainment Director John Craw-
ford said that the contracts for the’
band made stipulations that Hakim
be referred to at all times as ‘Jim
Morrison.”

The Back Doors will be joined Sat-
urday night by the Baltimore-based ,
band Cry Monday. Crawford describ-
ed them as a “new wave band, play-
ing stuff like U2 and the Cars.”

Tickets for the concert are on sale ,
at the W&L Bookstore for $4. Craw-
ford said the doors will open Satur-
day night at 8:30, and Cry Monday ,
should begin playing between 9 and
9:30. ,

  

 
