 

QASHINGTON & tee Grier mess -

LEXINGTON, YA £6456

OCT 19 1984

 

 

 

   
      
  

 

 

 

VOLUME 84

My View

Mannerisms
in Farmville

 

General
Notes

 

Class registration

Registration for winter term
will be held as follows — Seniors:
Monday, Oct. 22; Juniors: Tues-
day, Oct. 23; Sophomores: Wed-
nesday, Oct. 24; Freshmen:
Thursday, Oct. 25.

Freshmen should see their
faculty advisers next Thursday
both to register for classes and to
obtain their mid-term grades.

Calyx meeting

The Calyx will hold an organiza-
tional meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in
the Calyx office (Room 206 of the
Student Center, upstairs above
Fairfax lounge.)

Photo ID cards

All upperclass and exchange
students who ordered photo identi-
fication cards during fall term
matriculation may have their pic-
tures taken and obtain their cards
Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 24
and 25, from 1:30 p.m. to 4 p.m in
Room 113 of the Student Center.

Schmidt at VMI

Helmut Schmidt, former chan-
cellor of West Germany, will lec-
ture in VMI’s Cameron Hall Wed-
nesday, Oct. 24, at 8:30 p.m. Ad-
mission is free and will be on a
first-come, first-served basis.

United Way drive

Organizations interested in
sponsoring activities to aid the
United Way fund drive should con-
tact Dr. David Parker.

Frat blood drive

Chi Psi will sponsor the Red
Cross Bloodmobile at W&L Tues-
day, Oct. 23. Donations will be ac-
cepted from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in
Doremus Gymnasium.

Delt band benefit

Delta Tau Delta will sponsor a
benefit concert Saturday for the
United Way in the Cockpit. Musi-
cians will include Tim Eddy,
Dominic Lyons, Burr Datz, the
Ruley Brothers, Wildgrass and
the Convertibles. Cover charge
will be $2.

SAB $1.50 night

“The Guns of Navarone,”’ star-
ring David Niven and Gregory
Peck, will be shown Friday,
Saturday and Sunday by the Stu-
dent Activities Board in duPont
Auditorium. Showings will be at 8
p.m., and admission is $1.50.

Skills in hunting

Hunting guide Jim Adams will
speak on Turkey and deer hunting
techniques in western Virginia,
Wednesday, Oct. 24, at 7:30 p.m.
in the Student Center classroom.

Christian concert

The ‘‘Eternal Connection Sing-
ers’’ from the Teen Challenge
Training Center in Rehrersburg,
Pa., will present a concert at
VMI’s Jackson Memorial Hall
Friday, Oct. 26, at 8 p.m. The con-
cert is sponsored by the Fellow-
ship of Christian Athletes at VMI,
the Fellowship of Christian
Athletes at W&L and the Inter-
Varsity Christian Fellowship.

Backpacking trip

The W&L Outing Club is spon-
soring a one-night backpacking
trip to the St. Mary’s Wilderness
Area in the Blue Ridge Mountains,
Saturday night and Sunday. Re-
servations must be made at the
SAB office, 463-8585.

‘Notes’ requests

‘General Notes’’ request forms
may be obtained from the career
information stand by Carole
Chappell’s office. They must be
turned in to The Ring-tum Phi
box, upstairs in the Student
Center, by 1 p.m. Tuesday of the
week they are to be run.

 

Page 2

Ohe

NUMBER 7

Sports

National Phootball League:
only on paper but still phun

 

Page 7

KRing-tum Ph

Washington and Lee University

4

Chief Editor

   
     
 

Lexington, Virginia

 

Nostalgia

 

‘Five-star Generals’
relive their heydays

  

October 18, 1984

aa Plante hopes to become
female dorm counselor

By MIKE ALLEN

 

for next fall.

years.”

doing so.

Kathleen Plante, a junior exchange
student who was named Homecom-
ing queen Saturday, has submitted
the first application for a position as
a female dormitory counselor.

Dean of Freshmen H. Robert Hunt-
ley said Plante, a Hollins College stu-
dent who has attended classes here
since last winter, will be considered
for one of the four to six female dorm
counselor positions that will be open

He said the women counselors will
be drawn from law students and
transfer students, since ‘obviously
we won’t have our own backlog of than from those attending other
undergraduate students for three schools.

 

 

Kathleen Plante

“We won't be setting up any

Plante, a 19 year-old East Asian special requirements for them,” he
Studies/English major from Great said. ‘There is no separate policy.
Falls, Va., has yet toformally apply We'll be looking for the same things
for transfer admission to W&L, but from them as in those from other
said she is currently in the process of schools.”

Plante said last night that Simpson

She said she became interested in explained that policy to her yester-
tranferring shortly after beginning day.
her studies here two terms ago. “‘I
was approached by [Associate] Dean that I will not be an exception and
[of the College Pamela] Simpsonand _ that all transfers from the [local]
several of the dormitory counselors women’s colleges will be handled on
and they realized was one ofthefew an individual basis,’’ Plante said last

“IT was told by Dean Simpson today

Hugh Finkelstein hauls in a 54-yard touchdown pass
from quarterback Jon Thornton late in the first half
Saturday. The play pulled the Generals within one

 

ae.

~A2
By Cotton Pury

pictures, Page 6)

ate.
ear/The Ring-tum Phi

 
   

er ea:

people eligible to be a female dorm
counselor, so they encouraged me to
apply,”’ she said.

Assistant Director of Admissions

point of Hampden-Sydney College, but the Tigers went | William M. Hallman said there will
on to win the Homecoming contest, 41-21. (Story, more | be ‘‘no different policy” in consider-

ing transfer applications from stu-
dents at the local women’s colleges

 

Dawson gives views on honor, parties

Following is an edited transcript of a conversation
Monday among Executive Committee President Cole
Dawson and Ring-tum Phi chief editors Mike Allen
and Bruce Potter. Dawson is a senior economics ma-
jor from Houston who plans to attend law school.

Q. Toward the end of last year, there was some
controversy about the honor system — changes
that had been made with it and perhaps some
dissatisfaction with what had happened at some
open trials. What is your perception of how this
year’s student body looks at the honor system
—has there been a change over the summer?

A. I think there is definitely a different perspec-
tive this year toward the honor system, and a lot
of that may come through freshmen because the
freshman honor orientation program went ex-
tremely well. It was held out at Liberty Hall,
where there was a very relaxed atmosphere, and
everybody really got a lot out of it. I had
freshmen come up to me during Rush and they
said how well they thought it went and they
couldn’t believe we had such a strong honor
system — they’d never seen anything like this
before. At the high school they came from, there
was no conception of an honor system. Also, the
first year law orientation this year was a lot
stronger than it’s been in the past. Beau Dudley,
who is an alumnus of the undergraduate and law

schools and was president of the student body in
his third year of law school, spoke to them about
how the honor system has implications in the real
world, the tangible and intangible concepts that
go along with the honor system in the real world
and how it really and truly has affected his life.

Q. A lot of law students complain that they have
a professional code of ethics that makes the honor
system unnecessary.

A. He talked about legal ethics and how it’s
really pertinent to the real world and that the
things that go on in the honor system are parallel
to how ideally you should act in the real world.

Also, last year was such a controversial year,
with coeducation and other issues, people were
just relieved to end the year. I think Bob Jenevein
did an excellent job last year. I think Bob’s inten-
tions were a hundred percent behind the honor
system and the traditions at W&L. But I think he
went to extreme lengths to implement those feel-
ings.

Q. Other than the freshman orientation at
Liberty Hall and the orientation for first year law
students, what have you and the new Executive
Committee done to relieve some of the controver-
sy you said was felt toward the end of last year?

A. We've tried to come across with a very
cooperative attitude. We don’t want to seem

pushy. The White Book revision (allowing the EC
additional rebuttal time at open honor trials) is
going to help the honor system and we let it sit out
in front of the student body for three weeks to get
their input. We went to extreme measures to
make sure that everybody knew what was going
on. We didn’t pass it one week and the next week
quickly get it in the White Book.

We're trying to get more involved in the com-
munity. Alcohol Awareness Week is going to be a
big program put on by us. Also, sponsoring that
career symposium was a big thing that carried
over from last spring.

Q. How does the honor system become
strengthened? Is there any way to tell that the
honor system is stronger? Is it an increased
number of people kicked out, or is that not the
best way to measure it?

A. Not at all. I think the best way to judge
whether the honor system is strengthened is by
the way the honor system is perceived out there
— in the fraternity houses, on campus — and how
people express their feelings toward the honor
system, whether they’re positive or negative. A
lot of that comes through the Executive Commit-
tee and whether the Executive Committee has

"See Dawson, Page 3

night. ‘“‘I came to a new understand-
ing today. I had misunderstood what
I was told before.”’

Plante added that Simpson said she
“should be very careful’ in talking
with the press. Plante said she was
also told to ‘keep my agreement with
(See Plante, Page 4

EC to get more

response time

The Executive Committee will
get an extra two-minute rebuttal
at the end of open honor trials, ac-
cording to a White Book revision
given final approval by the com-
mittee Monday night.

The resolution gives the EC two
minutes to rebut the defendant’s
five-minute closing statement,
which follows the EC’s five-
minute closing statement at the
end of open honor trials.

Secretary Sam Dalton, the only
EC member who reported student
opposition to the motion, said
another senior told him that stu-
dents saw the EC as only trying to
ensure it can get convictions in
open honor trials.

Sophomore representative An-
drew Caruthers voted against the
motion, as he did last week when
it was initially proposed. Fresh-
man representative Brandt Wood
abstained.

“The reputation of the EC is
more important than a technical
change,” said Caruthers.

 

 

 

Father Joseph C. Martin, an alcoholism educator, speaks in the Warner
Center Tuesday night. Martin warned the crowd of nearly 1,200 that people

who drink are “playing Russian roulette’’ with their lives.

 

By Cotton Puryvear/The Ring-tum Pi

 

 

 

Expert claims drinking is playing
Russian roulette with sex, driving

28 ees
By JON THORNTON
Staff Reporter

 

 

Alcoholism educator Father Joseph C. Martin told a
Warner Center crowd Tuesday that ‘‘a lot of the time,
when you drink, you don’t even think about the fact that
you're playing Russian roulette with your life.”’

Martin, an internationally-recognized lecturer and
the creator of the film classic ‘‘Chalk Talk on Alcohol,”
added that ‘‘most drinking that is done after high school
is because it is the macho thing to do or the sophisti-
cated thing to do.”

Scattering ‘‘old AA stories’’ throughout his 90-minute
presentation, the Baltimore native described himself as
an alcoholic who has been treated. ‘‘Once contracted, it
is not lost until death — there is no cure,” he said. “It
also gets worse until death.”

“Everybody’s got theories about drinking, and we
usually share our misconceptions over a few drinks,”’
he said.

One of those myths is that alcoholism is symptomatic,
a symptom of a deeper underlying cause. That misses
the point, said Martin: ‘‘Knowledge of cause never did
anything for anybody.”’

“It’s not a stimulant,’’ he added, addressing another
common misconception. ‘‘People think it is because of
the crazy things they do when they drink it.’’

“Alcohol does not stimulate sexually,’’ he continued.
“What it does is knock out control over what’s already
there.”’

Martin called alcoholism a ‘‘peculiar disease’’ that is
the only ‘‘terminal illness...we joke about.’’ He said he
attempts to find a bit of the comic in the tragic with his
presentations.

For example, he warned the female members of his
Lexington crowd that they were crazy if they went out
will men wno nad been drinking. ‘‘People don t cause

accidents,’’ he admonished. ‘‘Accidents cause people.”’
People drink, Martin said, for a variety of reasons.
One is that ‘it’s a ‘big people’ drink — in tact, the law
won't allow us to drink it until we reach a certain age.”
Martin also said it’s done for social reasons —
“Alcohol has been called a social lubricant, and most
people are easier to take when they're well-oiled.”’

Drinking is also a matter of custom. ‘We drink
alcohol at births, deaths, weddings, wakes...Mondays,
Tuesdays, Wednesdays...,’’ he teased.

“We drink booze because it makes us feel good.
There’s no mystery to that,’’ the speaker added.
“Alcohol is definitely a painkiller. We say kiddingly,
‘You were feeling no pain last night,’ but it’s true.”

Shifting gears, Martin said that ‘‘alcohol kills by the
ton on the highway.”

“Your drinking is your own business; your driving is
your own business,” he said. ‘‘But if you combine them,
now, by God, it’s my business, because now it’s a threat
to my life.”

“It is physically impossible to drive while your brain

is drugged and not be affected by it,’’ he said. ‘‘I believe
that driving in a drugged condition is a breach of cons-
cience.”’

Martin said that determining whether someone is an
alcoholic is not a complex question. ‘‘An alcoholic is
someone whose drinking causes problems,” he said.
‘‘What causes problems, is one

“If your drinking is making trouble and you want to
stop the trouble, stop drinking.”’

“If you're worried about your drinking, it’s a classic
case of where there’s smoke, there's fire,’’ he said
“You don’t worry about non-problems.”’

‘Ask yourself if you've ever drunk more than you
determined you were going to drink,’ he added. “If
your answer is yes, you may be an alcoholic.’

 
 

OPINION

Page 2
October 18, 1984

 

Advice for advisers

This Monday, students will begin registering for the Winter
Term. While freshmen may not realize the importance of
registering for classes, they — like all upperclassmen — will
find the choices great, the desire lacking and the faculty ad-
visers busy.

Faculty advisers are the most important people in the
registration process, yet for many students, the faculty ad-
viser is unhelpful, unconcerned and unavailable.

Nothing can be done about student apathy toward registra-
tion. Nothing can be done to make the desisions any easier.
But something can be done about faculty advisers.

All too often, students during this week are greeted in their
faculty adviser’s office by ‘“‘Gee, I haven’t seen you since
orientation’ (or ‘last spring,’’ in the case of upper-
classmen). That is the fault of the student. Faculty advisers
are available daily for student consultation. But the case of
the student seeking advice only to find unreasonable office
hours or no office hours is prevalent also.

The Sept. 26 issue of The Chronicle of Higher Education
featured an article on advisers. Author Victor Cahn noted
that ‘‘of all the assignments a college teacher faces, none
tends to be more casually discharged than advising students
about their academic program... But advising is too impor-
tant not to be carried out more diligently. In fact, perhaps
more than any other pedagogic task, it reflects a teacher’s
view of the value and purpose of a college education.”’ That is
pretty heady stuff.

At W&L, there are those few — and a rotten apple, indeed,
spoils the barrel — who serve not as active participants in the
class selection process but as passive purveyors of class
cards. They reduce themselves and thus their Ph.D.s, for all
they are worth, to the minor task of stamping schedule cards
and casual conversation.

Faculty advisers ought to take their responsibilities more
seiously. They have the obligation to emphasize the value of
certain classes or disciplines and broadening concerns. ‘‘If
we,’’ wrote Cahn, a professor at Skidmore College, ‘‘have
convictions about what education should entail, then at these
private conferences we have the responsibility to say so. To
do less is professional cowardice and a disservice to our
students.”

Notes from the editors

The arrival of women at Washington and Lee means a lot
more than the addition of a few bathrooms. Most organiza-
tions will have to rethink their policies and practices in light
of this fundamental change in the character of the institution.

The Ring-tum Phi is no exception. We welcome the addition
of women to the student body, and we’re striving to make the
adjustments necessary to serve that new audience.

The practice at most newspapers, including The Ring-tum
Phi, is to identify women on second reference as Miss Smith,
Mrs. Green or Ms. Jones. Standard procedure is for the re-

porter to ask the subject of a story which of the courtesy titles ©

she prefers.

The Phi is reluctantly but not grudgingly abandoning the
practice.

This week we had occasion to do our first major story about
a woman student enrolled at W&L. A member of the staff
raised the point that many women students are likely to be of-
fended by the policy. We talked with a number of women and
professors about the matter, and there was universal agree-
ment that courtesy titles are an anachronism that should be
dropped. There are only W&L students, they argue — not
male W&L students and female W&L students. Even our
typesetters complain about the use of the tities. One pro-
fessor suggested that if we continued the practice when
females arrived on campus, we’d be strung up in the quad
—and not by our toes.

We think the titles are a nice anachronism. We open doors
for women, we give up our seats to women and we stand when
they enter the room. We do these things out of respect, not
condescension. To us, they are acts of esteem, not
chauvinism. They’re just things that a gentleman does. But
perhaps we, like the school, need to come into the 20th cen-
tury.

Apparently chivalry is dead. It’s painful to be one of the the
pallbearers, but from now on, on second reference women
will be referred to in The Phi simply by their last names.

We think they’re entitled.

The editors wish to formally disassociate themselves from
the Canterbury Fellowship advertisement on page 4. We
realize that the wording of the message and the use of the
Christ image in that way may offend some readers. We also
recognize that some readers may object both to the nature of
the ad and to having any group’s views held up to ridicule.
In balancing the Canterbury Fellowship’s right to air its
views and our readers’ right not to be subjected to material
that may insult their convictions, we felt that as a newspaper
for the entire community we should err on the side of
freedom of expression.

Chief Editors
Bruce Potter
Mike Allen

Business Manager
William Schoeffler

WIE aii 6 a ai esas ea Rey ike OLN te iicn tis eters Paul Foutch
DERMOGINGTANEE oc. cciccceeseceeneneccetarerelecnsereseeees Reade Williams
AGSINIANENGWS BEE... crc ccc er enscrecsenecernvetseseseererever Andrew Hoppes
GOEER cece sc hicpeaeebecebescciancercntenetinrbrnseress ses Mike Stachura
TANG IRE 65 RE NV ices Nelson Patterson
PRN TINUE oi sic es cae creed eee enenleverietirerersceees Cotton Puryear
COPA RBRIOE igiiidcickcchivekiciercoceneecessseeeeerinrresticres Peter Crane
ABVOPUUIAE MOROBEE ooo icc cscceeceedercdececceeteeeecsenscssccses AMS MOVOM
I ie Ri bb pee Gee EN LT CE CEP acing Ob EON et ed as er cass Chris Bowring

Chris Gareis
DAA RRNIIIR 5 65s chix tdendcseaulpeedr Chris Alevizatos, David Dunn

Eric Hancock, Jeff Kimbell,
Rob Tolleson, Brad Watkins

The Ring4um Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee, The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring4tum Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

 

scrcout APPROVAL

oa
2:10 FM ~
4: OOPM- 4:01PM F

(ee

 

Getting to know the advisees. . . a

ote:

a
-te:4Gam Ww
a:uPepm Th

 

  
 
 
   
   
 
  

 

 

 

MY VIEW

By B. Scott Tilley

  

 

I have no great love for Hampden-Sydney
students.

I used to have a certain respect for them,
though — a respect born out of certain innate
characteristics that I believed they possessed and
that I envied for Washington and Lee.

All of that changed this past weekend.

It is hard tosay what brought about the change.
Part of it was the football game, another part was
a friend at Hampden-Sydney sending me their
guide to etiquette for students.

For years and years, The Phi, student govern-
ment, the faculty and countless others have be-
moaned the student apathy at Washington and
Lee. Last year, student apathy had reached an
apparent pinnacle.

It was obvious — at football and basketball
games with smaller attendances than those of our
high school J.V. games, at an embarrassingly low
turnout at the school-wide Omicron Delta Kappa
convocation on General Lee’s birthday, in many
facets of school spirit.

The Executive Committee, led by Bob Jene-

vein, recognized this and made a noble effort to.

draw out that dormant school spirit. Unfortunate-
ly, all that is now remembered of that effort is the
“Great Tie Fiasco.’’ In retrospect, maybe an ef-
fort to artifically add class to the student body
while restoring enthusiasm and school spirit was
doomed to fail. Still, it was a valiant effort.

But that was what I had always heard about H-

SC, until this weekend. It seemed to be a highly
respected school, everyone talking about stu-
dents’ manners, their dress, their school spirit,
their class. Yes, it was supposedly a classy stu-
dent body. And don’t forget polite — much more
polite than those animals at W&L.

And I had seen it myself — their whole student
body turning out for football games, ardent
school spirit bordering on unhealthy obsession,
and khakis and ties present almost to the point of
monotony, yet adding an inexplicable class to the
institution from Farmville.

After the heart-felt debate on coeducation last
year, the love of our University by our student
body was apparent. But I have struggled with the
same question many others have: Why isn’t it
more visible?

To this end I tried to determine exactly why it is
visible at a school like Hampden-Sydney. What I
found stunned me. It was contained in the book,
“To Manner Born, To Manners Bred: A Hip-
pocket Guide to Etiquette for the Hampden-
Sydney Man.”’

And we thought ties to class were artificial! If
the only path to school spirit is through something
like this, I’m glad W&L passed.

If H-SC’s manners book were a joke, like ‘‘The
Preppy Handbook,’’ I would feel better. But it
purports to be serious. Students read it, and are
encouraged (Read: required) to abide by it. It
gives rules of proper etiquette in dress, introduc-
tions, food, drink, even how to hold silverware.

It reminds you that at cooktail parties, ‘‘two
traditional taboos are politics and religion,’’ and
that ‘‘ethnic, racial, or religious jokes are always
in bad taste.’’ And, don’t forget that an ‘‘engrav-
ed invitation to the Governor’s Mansion, the
White House or Buckingham Palace, obviously

Miss Manners goes to Hampden-Sydney .

Maybe they should read the foreword, a re-
minder that ‘Arrogance, or the presumption of
privilege, is the purest of bad manners.” ?

Returning to the point at hand, the guide also
tells students that ‘‘at Hampden-Sydney a jacket
and tie are traditional (Read: required) at foot-
ball games.”

Maybe we desire class and school spirit at
W&L. But I also do not want it if the only way to
achieve it is with a coded list such as Hampden-
Sydney’s. We decided last year that we did not
want a return to the assimilation code. s

This weekend provided a glimpse of hope,
though I don’t remember when Wilson Field has _
been that packed during my first three years at: '
W&L. At the risk of sounding silly, I must also ad-
mit that I got shivers up my spine when the band
played the “W&L Swing.’’ As the crowd got °
caught up in the electricity of enthusiasm, people _
sang along, the PiPhis waved their blue and white
handkerchiefs, and for one brief moment we were *
all showing a special feeling — a pride in ,
Washington and Lee.

The band is a neat touch at football games. I -
would like to see more people learn the words to
the Swing, though. I would also like to see guys _
keep wearing ties to football games. The pre-
game parties and tail-gating on the upper field .
have also helped to restore an interest in Satur-
days at Wilson Field. Maybe that interest will
grow until we start staying at games for the dura- ~
tion rather than leaving at halftime.

I hope that all of these will continue, that there
will be a resurgence of school spirit here at
General Lee’s College. But if it happens, let it not
be because it is mandatory and written in a little
brown book. Let it be because it comes naturally
out of a love for W&L.

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

requires a dark suit.”’

How (not?) to prepare for midterms EC rep says

OUR VIEW

By Mike McAlevey
and Scott Henderson

 

It’s that time again. Midterms
have rolled around and certainly
there will exist that handful — or
more likely, campus full — of pro-
crastinators that find themselves
neck deep in test material. How do
we handle these mountainous loads
of tribulation? It is our view that
several modes exist.

Probably one of the more promi-
nent factions, and undoubtedly the
one Scott subscribes to, is the all-
night club. These die-hard A-seekers
can be characterized by a gradual
metamorphosis that usually begins a
little after the pre-test day dinner.
After a brief shower, these eager
beavers confidently stroll into the
library, ready to attack the insur-
mountable load that lies ahead with
the zeal of a female Fancy Dress bid
seeker.

At this point, he will demonstrate
joviality and self-assurance, casually
talking to passers-by, taking occas-
ional food breaks and maybe even
getting a little of the material out of
the way. By about midnight, doubt
has set in. This stage is marked by
loss of several outer garments, beads
of sweat on the brow and a pile of hair
off to one side of the notebook that
resembles a rodent of size propor-
tional to the amount of material yet
to be covered.

By 3 a.m., panic has sloughed off to
lethargy and it’s time for a rejuven-
ating cup of coffee or (a) coke. Hell,
if one cup will keep him awake for a
half hour, just think what six or seven
cups will do. The ensuing 45-minute

ay ystH

eee ~\
comes one | -

  

fiasco usually entails athletic feats,
such as the five-floor stair marathon,
the middle aisle 40-shelf dash and a
few games of wadded cold test
basketball that would undoubtedly
spark the interest of any hustle-
conscious coach.

And then depression and fatigue
set in. The eyes strain as the written
word changes form and meaning
after numerous readings. Babbling
uncontrollably and incoherently
from caffeine, he spins forth a half-
awake, ruthless attack on everyone
from the torturous professor that
made such unreasonable demands to
the homosexual that keeps casually
shuffling by the afflicted’s carrel
with lustful eyes that just won’t allow
him to concentrate.

By morning, the individual can be
easily discerned among a crowd as
he who reeks like a four-day dead
highway skunk and exhibits bald pat-
ches suggesting radiation exposure,
a redness of eyes indicative of satan-
ic possession and an untold number
of forehead bruises and puncture
wounds from dozing off into blunt ob-
jects and pencils. The outcome of the
test is academic, pardon the pun.

Another approach is the ‘‘There’s
no hope, I may as well bag it’’ phil-
osophy. This individual, depending
upon his aspirations for graduation
and obtaining a reasonable GPA,
may take several different routes.
For one, he may attempt to drown his
hurt puppy-face conscience in
amounts of alcoho! that could wash
away or at least stupify the entire
population of India.

Another, less self-injurious, ap-
proach is to head down the road and
hope to lasso some patronizing heifer
that will perform acts at unimag-

    
 

 

 

 

 

 

inable self-degradation in order to
boost her man’s plummeting ego.
Then there is the case of he who
wallows in self pity, exalting the
shame he has exacted on his family
and friends, sure that the world will
stop revolving at any moment unless
out of dignity and duty, he ends it all
by subjecting himself to local fast
food, the analog to Socrates’ hem-
lock.

It would not be just were we not to
mention the few, the proud, the ones
most of us hate, the diligent. All-
nighters are scoffed at, being reserv-
ed for those crickets in the cold that
have carelessly and idly fiddled their
time away or the little pigs that will
be chomped by the wolvish fangs of
tomorrow’s test because of their
hastily constructed test preparation.
These well briefed scholars are the
ones. Leafing through their thrice-
copied, immaculately organized
notes, they bear a smugness of
expression and anticipate a good
night of sleep while our Bruce Jenner
Maxwell House man sweats himself
into premature balding and
ulcerated oblivion. Our ‘‘bag it’ boy
wallows in alcoholic numbness, bo-
vine lechery or brutal self-brand-
ishment, depending on his individual
disposition. By midnight, the in-
dustrious student will return home to
get a good night’s sleep before the
test. Come morning, he may non-
chalantly browse through his notes
before a healthy breakfast.

Finally, the motley bunch will as-
semble. From the neatly dressed stu-
dent grinning wryly with two well-
sharpened number two pencils on
hand, to the slumbering mass of
nondescript human flesh in the back
of the room, it is midterm time.

By Chris Gareis

 

 

 

 

 

 

police are

very flexible —

To the Editors: .
I am writing this letter in reference
to the student-held attitude that the
police are constantly ‘‘out to get’
Washington and Lee students.
Upon my arrival to W&L, I, and
many other freshmen, heard through
the grapevine the popular rumor that
we should beware of the student-hun-
gry police officers who had been
waiting all summer to hassle W&L
studets. Yet, I haven’t found it to be
true. I am not saying that some indi-
viduals aren’t hassled, but the over-
all attitude of the police department
is quite different from the view ‘of
many students. a
While recently on assignment for
the Executive Committee, I spoke
with Sgt. Richard Rice of the police
department. Sgt. Rice offered his
assistance for the upcoming Alcohol
Awareness Week, saying the depart-
ment is eager to help and inform the
W&L community. Upon hearing of
the attitude of many of the students;
Sgt. Rice said, ‘The police depart-
ment respects and protects W&L stu-
dents and is often more lenient on
social functions than many townsfolk
would like.”’ >
I was impressed with the officer’s
remarks and hope the W&L students
will realize that police try to be flexi-
ble, and that the department’s job of
maintaining an agreeable atmos-
phere for everyone in the community
is not an easy one. t
W. Brandt Wood
Freshman EC Representative

(SIA 7] <
Che ay “4
\(

    

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1984, Page 3

 

Dawson

© Continued from Page 1

credibility and whether students
respect the system the Executive
Committee is trying to promote on
campus. So far, I think that it’s come
across really well.

Q. What you’re saying about the
fraternity houses and campus is true.

' Two years ago, people did not talk

, about exams. Last year, they did.
It'll be interesting to see what hap-
pens this year.

A. We are going to stress the con-
cept that nobody talk about exams
during the exam period at all

, whether it was easy, hard, with
people who aren’t in the class,

‘anything. If need be, we'll pull

, somebody in here.

' Q. Obviously you feel that the
perception of the honor system has

, declined recently, maybe even going
back a long way. Why and how has it

" been allowed to decline?

.. A. The 60s and early 70s were pro-
bably the roughest times for the
honor system, during those really
rebellious times. Now it seems we’re
heading back toward a very conser-
‘vative feeling in America in general

— in the way people dress, the way

“people act, the goals people are set-

‘ting for themselves. It seems to me
that the honor system will strengthen
along with that. I think that last year,

‘ unfortunately, hurt the honor system

_ a lot because of the open hearing sit-

uation, with people getting off in the

open hearings. Students would go in

, and they would say, “That guy is

‘guilty and I can’t believe they’re

going to let him off.’ When people

_ think that, then they think no matter

"what they turn into the EC, it’s going

 to'get into the hands of the open hear-

ing and the randomly-selected stu-
dent body jury and they’re going to
get off.

Q. How much investigation and

 

Some

‘By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
Staff Reporter

 

 

New general education re-
quirements affecting this year’s
freshman class were a response to a
‘general awareness that high schools
.are not preparing students as they
once did, according to the committee

‘that recommended the revisions.
- But that return to ‘‘traditional”’
subjects has generated differences of
opinion among members of the class
-of 1988.

Freshman Bill Payne, for exam-
ple, considered the effects of the new
‘requirements on students’ grades. ‘‘I
\think people have problems with cer-
tain subjects,” he said. ‘‘It’s a strug-
‘gle to take all these basic classes.”’

According to another freshman,
.Norm Sigler, however, college is a
place for liberal arts. Sigler believes
‘that a basic knowledge of a variety of
subjects is “necessary to be success-
ful’ and that the general education
‘requirements provide a ‘‘broader
,aspect of what college offers.’

Breadth, according to Professor
‘Sidney Coulling, chairman of the
“special committee, is one of the re-
_ quirements for a liberal education.

To satisfy this requirement, the
Committee on General Education re-
. commended that students be profici-
ent in the humanities, both natural
‘arid social sciences and math-
eratics.

__'The committee began developing
its proposals in the fall of 1981, short-
ly: after its appointment by then-
President Robert E. R. Huntley. Pro-
fessors Coulling, William Buchanan,

’ Al Gordon, Edward Hamer, Bruce

_ Herrick, Leonard Jarrard, John Jen-
nigs, Robert McAhren, William Ses-
sions and H.1’, Williams, assisted by

Pr Deans Edward Atwood and William
Watt, met regularly throughout that

' academic year and reported their
final proposal, which passed the com-
mittee unanimously, to the faculty in
April of 1982.

.,At a special faculty meeting in
March 1983, the new curriculum was
approved by a two-to-one margin.

. Coulling noted that one major point
of the new curriculum is not to re-
quire specific courses but to require
proficiency.

For example, the six required
eredits in literature may be fulfilled
through the English department or

Resume help available

closed hearing activity has there
been this year?

A. It has been an average year.

Q. Last year the main topic of con-
versation around here was coeduca-
tion and this year for a while it was
Lisa Birnbach, but now it seems to be
a perceived rift between the students
and the administration over the new
social rules. How deep is that rift — is

 

“The administration
definitely does have
our best interest in
min

 

it real? Do people think it’s worse
than it is?

A. I’ve thought about that a lot.
From what I perceive, people don’t
believe that the administration has
the students’ best interests in mind
as far as what will perpetuate a well-
rounded character of W&L. They per-
ceive that they’re bringing on
coeducation and bringing all these

rules on and trying to make our stu-
dent body more intellectual. W&L
has always fostered a well-rounded
atmosphere and it’s produced the
movers and shakers in society and in
the world and in our community. Stu-
dents perceive that the adminis-
tration is trying to get away from
that and trying to apply too much
academic pressure.

But I don’t think that’s the case at
all. I think the administration defin-
itely does have our best interests in
mind. If you think about it, by the
time you get to be a senior, you’re so
paranoid about getting a job that
you’re going, “‘Why are my grades
not better? I’ve got to get more in-
volved on campus. Why haven’t I
done these things?’’ Well, the ad-
ministration sees these problems.
They may not have the best solution,
but they’ve come up with the one that
they’ve rationalized to be the best.

The weekend party restriction
won’t change things that much. The
Wednesday night party situation will.
From what I’ve seen, people have
been receptive and have cooperated
with the rule. They don’t like it, but I
think the fraternities are abiding by
it for the most part.

Q. You say people think the ad-
ministration is trying to make us
more academically intense.
Eventually we have to confront the
question: Are we an institution of
higher learning, or are we a country
club? Is it possible to be both?

A. I don’t think that you want to
have a country club atmosphere and
I don’t think you want just an intel-
lectual atmosphere. I think that
there’s a compromise and there’s a
middle of the road that you do want.

Q. Do we study too much?

A. Or do we not study enough? It’s
up to the individual. I think I found
my happy medium, and I think I’m
getting the most out of my W&L ex-
perience.

Q. You point out that in fact the im-
pact of these rules may not be that
great, but they’re perceived as being

very serious. Do you think that it’s
possible that the Hill could take even
more severe measures?

A. If students choose to ignore the
rules blatantly, I think the faculty
and the administration will take a
strong stand to correct what they
perceive as a problem.

Q. Are students ignoring the rules?

A. Not that I’ve seen. I don’t think
that they’re ignoring them.

Q. It has been suggested that if
things continue down the road
they’re going, eventually the frater-
nities will just be eliminated. That’s
something you want to avoid, I take
it.

A. Getting rid of the fraternities?
Absolutely. I don’t want to get rid of
the fraternities. I think the frater-
nities play a central role in the Wash-
ington and Lee experience — I think
they always have, and I think they’ve
been an important part of the school.
They lend part of the character to the
W&L atmosphere. You know the old
adage, ‘“‘We work hard, we play
hard.”’

Q. Yes, but Cole, do we work
hard?

A. You’re always going to have
your people who play too hard, and
you’re always going to have your
people who work too hard and then
you’re going to have your people in
the middle. Which way is it now? I’m
not sure. I think that there needs to
be a serious attitude toward study-
ing. I think that students need to get a
grip and get serious. They have their
futures to think about ané they need
to prepare. I think people who come
to this school and play hard and don’t
do well academically are really miss-
ing out and they’re missing the point
of the W&L education. There’s such
an opportunity to learn in this school.
One thing that is so obvious to me

about this campus is the quality of
the people admitted. Even the people
who don’t do well academically are
smart.

Q. What is the best way for
students to realize that potential — to

prepare themselves for the real
world and make the most of the W&L
experience? Is it to party hard?

A. I think it’s to study extremely
hard on the weekdays. To go out and
socialize on Wednesday nights
releases a lot of the tension. When
you release that tension, you can be
more comfortable studying harder
because you know that every couple

 

“The fraternities
play a central role in
the Washington and
Lee experience.”’

 

of days you’ll have the chance to go
out and have a good time. Especially
with the all-male character of W&L, I
think that’s been important. When
coeducation comes, you're going to
be able to socialize while studying’
over in the C-School, in the library or
whatever and a lot of the tension will
be released that way. But now I think
it’s important to have that break

midweek and on the weekends.

I think also athletics play a very
important part in the W&L experi-
ence. You should take advantage of it
while you’re here — IMs or varsity
sports — because we’re not so big
that it prohibits anybody to par-
ticipate.

Q. We talked earlier about some of
the things the EC has done right this
year. What mistakes have you
made? What have you done wrong
80 far this year?

A. None of the decisions that I have
made so far this year have been rash
decisions. I think my decisions have
been thought out, have been carried
through as what I perceived to be the
correct solution to a problem. Some
solutions that I have come up with
may not have as great of a desired
impact as others. Some of them may
not have come across as well as
others, but I think the intentions were
good. Any decision that I have made,
if I could go back now and be in the
same time without knowing what I
know now, I would have made the
same decision. I don’t regret making
any decisions that I’ve made.

Q. We’ve touched on a number of
areas — the honor system, communi-
ty involvement of the student body,
repairing relations between the
students and the administration. If
your committee could accomplish
one thing and be known for accom-
plishing that one thing, what would it
be?

A. Strengthening the honor system,
in the eyes of the student body. We
started off on a good foot with orien-
tation, we’re revamping the honor
system pamphlet, I have stressed the
honor system in speaking with with
the faculty and have asked that they
require their students to write out the
pledge in full. I think that enhances
the understanding of the pledge and
what it means to turn in work that is
your own. You can’t find that in
many other colleges.

Q. Thank you, Cole.

alk at new general ed requirements
Math help available for struggling students

through one of the foreign language
departments. Similarly, a  jour-
nalism course stressing expository
writing could be used to fulfill the
English composition requirement.

In the May 1983 edition of the
Washington and Lee University
alumni magazine, Coulling wrote
that this aspect of the plan is an ‘‘at-
tempt to bridge artificial barriers
between departments.”’

In addition to the literature and
composition requirements, students
must now obtain 12 credits of a
foreign language; 12 in the fine arts,
history, philosophy and religion cate-
gory; 10 in science and mathematics,
including one laboratory science and
at least one math course; and nine
credits in the social sciences, which
include economics, politics, psycho-
logy and sociology and anthropology.

The requirement for one credit of
physical education was retained in
the new curriculum.

Students may waive their need to
take some courses through the
means of proficiency tests and ad-
vanced placement courses in high
school.

Also, a student’s courses in his
major may now count toward fulfill-
ing the general education require-
ments.

Underlying these requirements,
according to Coulling, is an attempt
to ‘propel the well-prepared student
forward and require the less well-
prepared student to become well-
prepared, to overcome his inade-
quacies.”’

Sigler, who said he is planning on
majoring in chemistry, recognizes
that some courses inevitably will
cause some students trouble. He add-
ed, however, that ‘“‘most professors
here are willing to help students who
have trouble... if you work at it.”’

Payne, who is considering a geo-
logy major, said, “I’m taking
English, and I’m not really inter-
ested. I’m interested in geology, and
I feel I’m learning more.”’

To fulfill the foreign language re-
quirement, Payne also is taking a
Spanish course. “For a geology
major,”’ he said, “I’m not so sure
how important Spanish is.’’

Payne, however, recognized that
his negative attitude toward some of
the new requirements may be biased.
“I think I just flunked my first
Spanish test,’’ he said.

from Placement Office

 

; . REED HIBES
‘Staff Reporter

 

For those students who would like
,to get an early start on the job hunt,
the Washington and Lee Placement
Office has many programs that can
help.
'.. In addition to last Friday’s Career
. Symposium, which gave students an
opportunity to speak with prominent
businessmen, the Placement Office
is preparing a senior resume book.
For the last two months, the office
has been sponsoring resume writing
clinics to help students perfect their

resumes.
—Tha2oenme hankeawill he offered to

a variety of companies, including Ex-

xon, General Foods, North Carolina
National Bank, American Express
and IBM. Many smaller companies
that usually do not recruit at colleges
also will be sent copies of the resume
book. Resumes for the book must be
submitted to the receptionist in the
Student Center by 3:30 p.m. next Fri-
day, Oct. 26. Resumes should be neat
and typed.

Associate Dean of Students Mich-
ael Cappeto said he would be able to
proofread resumes that are turned in
several days before the deadline. He
added that students who have ques-
tions about the book or need informa-
tion about writing effective resumes
should see him in the Student Center.

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

A great many people will argue
that there is no such thing as Cal-
culus in “real life,’ but there is
something called Calculus here at
Washington and Lee and many fresh-
men are currently doing rather poor-
ly in that subject. To remedy that,
the University is offering a refresher
seminar for those struggling with
some of the more abstract concepts
involved in Calculus.

Conducted by Dennis Warwick, an
instructor from VMI, the sessions are
on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 to
8 p.m. in Robinson 6.

Professor Henry Sharp, head of the
Mathematics Department, cited the
new General Education Require-
ments as part of the reason so many

freshmen are having a great deal of
difficulty with calculus. He said a
great many students simply do not
have enough mathematics back-
ground and are having to take
courses they are not properly
prepared to take.

Warwick blames much of the pro-
blem on what he calls “‘The Calcu-
lator Syndrome.” He said that many
students are lost if they are not given
a simple, cut and dried formula to
use,

Although Professor Sharp could
not supply any exact figures, a large
number of freshmen are failing the
subject. This number encompasses
both Calculus 101 and the newly add-
ed Discreet Mathematics 102, which
the seminar also covers. About 300 of
the 360 freshmen at W&L are taking
some form of mathematics this term.

Warwick is well acquainted with
courses such as this as he has tutored
at VMI as well as Mary Baldwin for
eight years.

Phil Sherrill, a freshman who at-
tended one of the classes, said that he
felt he was getting much out of it.

“T had trouble in high school,’’ he

said. “My background is bad.”

Kevin Fox, another freshman,
said, “It’s helping a lot. I’m doing
horrible in Calculus now and I need
the help.’”’

Warwick is not using a book, but
explains concepts that the students
are having trouble with.

Winterize Your Car at

C.C. Auto Parts

Antifreeze
Gulf 10W40
discounted air and oil filters

Call 463-7111

8-6 Mon.-Fri. & 8-5 St.

Rt. 11 across from Econo Lodge

 

 

       
 
  
  

good friends.

    
  
 

Plains, 33
miles outside
Washington

 

A day in the country. A
day at the races. A rousing
tailgate party.

You can - it all

between Warrenton and
Middleburg, at noon Satur-

Pick up your passes at location below, or call 703-253-5001.

Come enjoy an autumn day
ia hunt ¢ county steeplechase.

 

 

aA

A crowd of

~. together
. herein

only $5.

 

day, October 20.

And you can start with
a guest pass that admits
your whole car load for

You can pick up the
pass and directions right
here at school. Then
you can plan a beautiful
morning drive in the
country. An exciting after-
noon on the breathtaking
new Great Meadow course.

 

 

afterwards.

University Center Information Desk

at a

And wind up with dinner
at a local country inn,

So take a break from
football one afternoon
this fall. Go pick up your
pass for Great Meadow,
and you're off to the races.

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1984

Football team sees how it may look in 2034

By BRUCE POTTER
Chief Editor

Standing on the Washington and
Lee sidelines before Saturday’s
Homecoming football game, John F.
McFadden Jr. and his teammates
from W&L’s 1934 Southern Confer-
ence championship football team
issued a warning to the 1984
Generals.

‘Boys, we want you to take a good
look at us because this is the way
you’ll look 50 years from now,”
McFadden said they told the current
Generals.

The 1934 Generals were honorary
captains for Saturday’s game, a 41-21
defeat at the hands of arch-rival
Hampden-Sydney College.

One of only two W&L Southern Con-
ference championship football teams
(the other was 1950, when the team
went to the Gator Bowl), the 1934
Generals compiled a 7-3 record and
clinched the conference champion-
ship with a 14-7 victory against the
University of South Carolina in Col-
umbia, S.C.

This weekend, the first time many
of the team members had seen each
other since their glory days, provided
a ‘‘wonderful’’ time, and team mem-
bers said they were ‘“‘treated like
royalty.”

“It was wonderful,” said McFad-
den, who lives in Kingstree, S.C. ‘‘A

Breakfast Special

 

 

lot of them I hadn’t seen in 50 years.”’
the activities, McFadden added,
“kept us pretty busy...At our age,
that’s about all we could do.”

“We had time to swap some
yarns,’ said Edward W. Hiserman of
Charleston, W.Va.

As well as trading stories about the
heydays of Washington and Lee foot-
ball, the ‘five-star Generals,”’ as 50-
year alumni are called, compared
the Washington and Lee of 1984 with
the school they knew in 1934.

“The school hasn't changed
much,” said Lewis W. Martin of
Hilton Head, S.C. ‘‘We always dress-
ed with a coat and tie or a letter
sweater (for athletes). That's one of
the things I don’t like about it — the
way the students dress now. I think
they should dress a little neater than
they do.”

Students’ dress also was cited as a
change by other alumni. ‘‘The stu-
dents looked awfully young,’’ Mc-
Fadden said. ‘The thing I think that
has changed the most is the dress.
When we were there, we wore coats
and ties to every class. They don’t
look like the same people as we had
atall.”’

George W. Harrison of Henderson,
N.C., was a member of the Vigilance
Committee, which ensured that stu-
dents followed such rules as wearing
a coat and tie to class and speaking to
fellow students on campus.

Lunch and Dinner Special
Chicken Fillet Sandwiches ...........cccccccccccceee IM
11 a.m. to7 p.m. every day

till 11 a.m. every day

NO COUPON NEEDED

Harrison said the committee ‘had
a few paddles”’ to punish disobedient
students. ‘‘I don’t believe any kind of
punishment like that is necessary
now,” he added, “but I believe we
should have something to get the
dress code back.”

One aspect of Washington and Lee
life that has changed greatly, and
with which these alumni are fami-
liar, is athletics. In 1954, Washington
and Lee ended a rich football tradi-
tion by eliminating subsidized athle-
tics and scholarship athletes.

Before then, the alumni said, near-
ly 20,000 people (compared with the
3,500 at Saturday’s game) sometimes
could be expected for W&L home
games. Temporary wooden stands
often had to be erected along the far
side of Wilson Field to handle the
overflow crowds.

“W&L football was pretty big
time,” said Martin, who played
guard. (Asked whether that was of-
fensive or defensive guard, he re-
sponded, ‘‘In those days, you played
both ways.”’) “It hasn’t changed a
whole lot because football today is
probably a whole lot better than
when I came along.”’

McFadden, who was starting
quarterback his freshman year and
backup quarterback in 1934, said the
quality of play and the atmosphere of
Saturday’s game was similar to
games 50 years ago.

Lloyd's of Lexington

I a oc crt cress srincss ee

 

  

 
 
   

His only b
to be aspokesman for
the moral majority

If you think Jesus loves all people — even those who don't agree with Him —
come and join us ina service where diversity is not only allowed, but welcomed.
The Episcopal Church

the Canterbury Fellowship

at Washington and Lee University ® Virginia Military Institute

A Ministry of R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church
and The Episcopal Diocese of Southwestern Virginia

         
          
    

God didn’t give
egotten

Son

Many of the scholarship football
players worked in the beanery (or
dining hall — situated where the
Bookstore is now) to earn money for
their meals, Harrison said.

Harrison, who described himself as
“a rinky-dink,’’ said he ‘‘played dur-
ing the week and rested up on Satur-
day.’’ A kicker, he added that five or

six other players could kick better
than he did, and he was listed as the
third-string center.

Hiserman, who had only an acad-
emic scholarship, joined the football
team as ‘“‘ a ‘‘walk-on’’ and played
halfback. ‘Crowds were bigger,
then,’’ he said, ‘‘although I was sur-
prised at the size of the crowd Satur-

day. I thought they had a good-sized
crowd, considering everything.”’

During the Depression, Washing-
ton and Lee usually began each year
with about 1,050 students, a number
that declined to about 900 by the end
of the year as financial problems
forced some students to leave school,
Hiserman added.

Exchange student named queen

 

By BILL BLOOM
Staff Reporter

 

As the Virginia gentlemen roared
from the bleachers and the sun peak-
ed over Wilson Field Saturday, the
moment of truth had arrived for 18
young women as Professor Keith
Shillington announced the 1984
Homecoming queen.

The winner was 19-year-old
Kathleen Plante, a Hollins College
junior who has been an exchange stu-
dent at Washington and Lee for the
last two terms. She represented Pi
Kappa Alpha and was escorted by
Dave Jonson.

The competition was judged by a
panel of university officials who con-
sidered appearance, outside activi-
ties and a 10-15 minute interview they
conducted.

Plante plans to spend next
semester in Kitakyushu, Japan,
where she will teach English conver-
sation to elementary school students.

Her possible long-range goals in-
clude obtaining a degree in interna-
tional law.

In adjusting to the all-male en-

vironment here, she found a slight
discomfort at ‘‘being noticed in the
cafeteria and in the classroom when
speaking out.”’

She said that although the men
tend to over-react to her presence,
they seem to accept her now that the
novelty has worn off.

The Homecoming queen received
an engraved pewter cup, a dozen red

carnations, and an “enchanting
crown.”’ Her duties, which consisted
of attending the alumni cocktail
party, posing for pictures and answer
questions from reporters, are now
technically over. 4

Plante is the fifth consecutiv
queen from Hollins and the second
consecutive Pika representative to
win the title. :

 

Plante

0 Continued from Page 1

President [ John] Wilson”’ in answer-
ing questions. She declined to specify
the nature of that agreement.

She said that she and Wilson
“discussed my interest as an ex-
change W&L student in transfer-
ring.”’

Plante said that although she in-
tends to apply, her admission ‘“‘is not
a certainty.”

She said she has met twice with
Hollins President Paula Brownlee for
“basic career counseling.’ She said
the two ‘‘discussed the possiblity that

 

a few...a measurable number of girls
would be interested in transferring.’’s

“As far as a mass exodus is con;
cerned, that’s not something I think
will happen at all,”’ she said. 3

Dr. Robert A. Spivey, president of
Randolph-Macon Women’s College,
said that because ‘‘W&L decided that
they were going to take a normal
number of transfer students’?
—about 20 per year — he expects
there won’t ‘‘be any great number of
transfers from the local women’s col
leges.”’ ;

Hallman said Tuesday that oné
female transfer application and one
female early decision application
have been received by the admis-
sions office.

SAB pleased with pavilion weekend

By JIM STRADER
Staff Reporter

After a successful trial run in the
Homecoming festivities last week-
end, the student activities pavilion
will be placed back under wraps until
January, Student Activities Board of-
ficials said.

“We were more than satisfied,”
said SAB Executive Director Mich-
ael Guerriero when asked about the
pavilion’s performance. Only a cou-
ple of minor problems kept the pavi-
lion from proving flawless.

The structure was used Friday
night for the Spinners concert and

  

Sunday afternoon for the Junior
Class party.

Guerriero said that the people he
spoke with had nothing but praise
for the pavilion and the weekend’s
set-up. The bands were especially
impressed with the dressing rooms
and the loading docks for their equip-
ment, he said. The bar was mention-
ed as a strong point by the beer dis-
tributors, Guerriero added.

On the negative side, the SAB was
only using one of the two doors for
spectator admission to Friday’s
show. This resulted in a long line out-
side the pavilion and about a 15-
minute wait to get inside.

Guerriero said that the SAB simply
did not anticipate the number of peo-
ple who showed up. He estimated
that the show on Friday: night was
about three-quarters full. This,
however, was not the case Sunday
afternoon, when a drastically
smaller crowd turned out for the

U.S. Sen. John Warner, a Repub-
lican from Virginia running for re-
election this year, will visit
Washington and Lee, his alma mater,
during a campaign swing through
Lexington next Thursday, Oct. 25.

Warner will be appearing at a con-
ference at VMI that morning and will
be on the W&L campus from 12 to 1
p.m. Tentative plans call for him to
speak in Lee Chapel at noon, accord-
ing to Pat Hayden, chairman of the
WA&L College Republicans.

Warner, who won election to his
first term in 1978, is challenged by
Democrat Edythe Harrison.

Junior Class party.

Another setback over the weekend
was the parking situation. There was_
not sufficient room for all who drove
to the pavilion to park.

There is some talk, Guerriero said,
of a pavilion parking lot being built in
the future to accomodate students.
He added that the gravel road behind
the pavilion may be paved from U.S. —
60 to give the area another entrance.

The next step for the pavilion is the _
laying of a floor that, it is hoped, will
be indestructible. Workmen were not
able to do this prior to last weekend’s_ |
activities. The floor will resist cigar-
ette burns and other party mishaps.

Since the pavilion will also be used,
for indoor athletic practices, the
structure must be readied for these -
as well. The projected completion
date for the SAB’s activities. is
December, which will have the
pavilion ready for student affairs in
January.

Warner to campaign here

Warner’s visit will coincide with ©
one by a medical student who was in :
Grenada when U.S. troops invaded |
the island a year ago.

The student will speak about thein- °
vasion at 3:30 p.m. in Room 221 of the .
Commerce School. His speech will be
followed by a question and answer ‘
session and a debate between W&L .
politics Professor John Handelman
and journalism Professor Clark R. |
Mollenhoff about whether the inva-
sion was justifiable. ‘

The student’s visit is sponsored by
Pi Sigma Alpha, the honorary polit-
ical fraternity. a!

 

ry

By Appointment 463-9588

+

7 ee
ra a

Old Main Sé¢. Niall :
Lexinjiox, VA 24450;

 

 

 
  

    

 

on

Chinese and

American Cuisine *

5,

= Exotic Cocktails °
ALOHA WOK Carry-out Service q
409 South Main St. Lexington, Virginia 24450 Available 4
RSME Open Tuesdaythrough Sunday *

‘a

4

7

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

 

     
    
    

   
 
   
   
   

  
   

Call
463-7174

Ski Trips
Bahamas

Eurail
Amtrak

Air Tickets

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Make plans now for Thanksgiving
and Christmas breaks.

ie
=

 

same as possible,’’ he said.

The Lexington City Planning Commission recommended last Thursday
that City Council approve the permit necessary for the Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity to begin rebuilding at the site where its house was destroyed by
fire last spring. City Council must hold a public hearing before the permit
can be granted. Commission Chairman Henry L. Ravenhorst said they
_ received two letters opposing the permit and a petition signed by four in-
dividuals who opposed the permit. He said one of the signers was Lee Doane,
, a W&L law student and wife of City Manager John V. Doane. Ravenhorst
|, said that supporting Fiji at the hearing were Dean of Students Lewis John;
Richard B. Sessoms, the fraternity’s adviser; and a representative of the
| Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. He said that except for Doane, those opposing

the permit ‘‘were quite remote” from the house, and the commission felt
“everything else indicated that it had been used as a fraternity house for a
long time and that it was desirable that it continue to be used in that way.”
Ravenhorst, who is also an architect on the project which is scheduled for
, completion in Sept. 1985, said there will be small interior changes and that a
steel structure will be built inside the existing outer walls, which will be re-
tained. ‘‘That’s the whole intent — to keep the building looking as much the

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

‘Alumni say honor code
-remains a key concern

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
News Editor

 

The Washington and Lee Alumni
Board, which met in Lexington this
weekend, is concerned with what it
sees as a weakening of the honor
system, student Executive Commit-
tee Vice President James White said
Monday night.

White, who attended the board’s
meetings, added, however, that
“they were pretty pleased with the
changes of the White Book revisions

committee.”’

‘ Last year, the EC passed White
Book changes that allow it to stamp
“‘expelled’’ on the transcript of a stu-
* dent found guilty in an open honor
trial and that allow it to use an extra
law student to assist it in prosecuting
‘open honor trials.

The alumni board expressed con-
cern that students, especially in the
Law School, don’t have enough re-
spect for the honor system, White
said.

The board suggested the possibility
of freshman orientation taking place,
as it did until a few years ago, during
a three-day retreat at Natural
Bridge. It also recommended a
stronger orientation for first-year
law students.

Dawson said he thought freshman
orientation went well this year. ‘“‘The
freshmen got a lot out of it,” he said.
Orientation about the honor system

was held at Liberty Hall.

Senior law representative Gordy
Hammock added that Dawson’s ori-
entation this year for the first-year
law students was well done.

‘Many law students don’t think
they are bound to the honor system
because they’re bound to legal re-
strictions,’’ junior representative
Michael Black noted.

White also reported that the alumni
board discussed the coeducation
decision, met with the Coeducation
Steering Committee and said that
donations from alumni to the Annual
Fund are down so far this year.

The alumni board met with student
body leaders Thursday afternoon for
informal discussions about problems
facing the university and students’
opinions about those problems.

The alumni. board, chaired by JE:

Charles Hurt Jr. of Atlanta, serves as
an advisory committee to the Board
of Trustees.

Also at Monday night’s EC meet-
ing, the committee decided once
again to investigate the possibility of
presenting another open exam
proposal to the faculty.

The proposal, as drawn up last
year, would allow students to take ex-
ams any time during exam week,
without having to specify a time or
day in advance, as they must now.

A similar proposal developed by
last year’s Executive Committee was
rejected by the faculty, 43-42, last
spring.

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

——A

463-2742

 

 

 

 

 

&

 

 

DUKE

THE FUQUA
OOL
OF BUSINESS

SCH

 

 

 

 

The Fuqua School of Business at Duke
University offers one of the finest available
opportunities for unsurpassed professional
management training. We are interested in
men and women who have proven aca-
demic, leadership, and social abilities.

David L. Miller
Director of Admissions

The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1984, Page 5

 

schools say coed is a plus

 

By ANDY HOPPES
Staff Reporter

 

Guidance counselors from several
high schools in the Washington and
Lee recruiting area say interest in
W&L has increased somewhat be-
cause of the coeducation decision,
but the counsleors do not see the deci-
sions having any immediate impact
on the school’s academic status.

“T have always recommended
W&L to my students,”’ Nancy Wise, a
counselor at Porter-Gaud, a high
school in Charleston, S.C., said. ‘The
academic quality of your university
has always been good. It (coeduca-
tion) doesn’t raise or lower my opi-
nion of W&L,’’ she added.

Ms. Wise said that the coeducation
decision makes it easier for her to
convince male students to attend
W&L. She said that in the past she
had to explain W&L’s relationship
with the nearby women’s colleges in
order to overcome students’ fears
that W&L was too isolated.

“It makes it less of a battle for me.
I don’t have to convince people that
there actually are women on cam-
pus,’’ Ms. Wise said.

Two students who told her last
spring that they would not apply to
W&L because it was all-male have
changed their minds now that the
university has decided to go coed,
reported Ms. Wise. However, no
female students at Porter-Gaud have
said they woul apply to W&L,
although one young woman has ask-
ed about the school, she said.

Ms. Wise said that after Porter-
Gaud went coed about 10 years ago,
the SAT scores of its students did im-
prove steadily due to the increased
applicant pool. She said W&L could
probably expect a similar ex-
perience.

“T think you will have strengthened
your position. I’m sorry to see your
traditions pass’”’ Ms. Wise said.

Brother Kenneth Sylvester, college
placement director at all-male
Chaminade High School in Mineola,

| Te

N.Y., said Chaminade students
always have been interested in W&L
because of its good academic and
athletic programs. However, some
students had been deterred from
going to W&L because it was all-

 

Coeducation:

83

What Will It Mean?

 

male, Brother Sylvester said.

“After four years of an all-male at-
mosphere, they didn’t want to go to
an all-male college,’’ Brother
Sylvester explained.

“T didn’t think anything less of
W&L for the decision (on coeduca-
tion) or anything more. I think it’s
going to make it more competitive
for my male students to get in,”’
Brother Sylvester said.

A.E. Venturino, a counselor at
Douglas S. Freeman High School in
Riohmond, said interest in W&L
among male students has not chang-
ed since the coed decision, but sev-
eral female students at Freeman
have expressed interest in W&L.

Venturino said that before the
coeducation decision students who
were interested in W&L would also
consider schools such as Davidson,
the University of Virginia, Duke and
Hampden-Sydney. The decision to go
coed has not changed W&L’s status in
relation to these schools.

“For the students that we’re see-
ing, it (coeducation) doesn’t seem to
make any difference,’ Venturino ad-
ded.

Steven Munger, a counselor at
Worcester Academy in Worcester,
Mass., said he thinks W&L will con-
tinue to compete with the ‘‘better
East Coast liberal arts colleges” for
students, with coeducation not mak-
ing a significant change in W&L’s
status among those colleges.

“Personally, I don’t see any dif-
ference in how I’m going to look at
the school. I don’t think people select-
ed it because it was an all-male col-
lege,’’ Munger said.

Munger said five or six of his
students are considering W&L this
year, and in past years three or four
students from Worcester would ac-
tually apply to W&L.

“I haven’t gotten any feedback
from male students as to whether the
coed factor has made a differ-
ence...It has a definite appeal to the
one young lady in my senior class
who is interested in W&L,” said
Munger, chuckling.

Joffrey’s acting was better than its ballet

By KAREE SMITH
Special to the Phi

 

Here’s to all of you guys who think
guys who do ballet are all wimps.
Can you jump straight over a girl’s
head in a split without her even bend-
ing her' neck? Come on, she’s only
about 5’4”’.

I’m talking, of course, about the-
Joffrey Ballet performance this Sun-
day that so few of you went to. Oh,
I’m sure that you all had legitimate
reasons for not going, but it would
have been nice. After all, it was free.

The Joffrey performance was very
good technically, though not very
much of it was actually ballet. The
children in the audience enjoyed it
very much, and a few of them came
up and asked me if I were in the
“play.” In many ballet companies,
the performers don’t act and the au-
dience does not enjoy it too much.
The Joffrey’s acting was excellent,

1985 CALENDARS
now in stock

W&L BOOKSTORE

: AND For a limited time only - Oct. 19-26 that is ‘
= All (yes even Christie) calendars -20% off

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

*) Ham § Swiss

*2 Ttalian

*3

’

"4 Tuna 4 Provolone

#5 Steak ‘'n Cheese

wy/ lettuce , tomate, & onton

cooked salami, genoa salami, ham, provolone,
le toce tomata anton y tralian Season ng

roast heaf, ham, tucked leHuce, tomato
onion, rusian a z ‘

tuna, Provolone Chee, le Huce tamato,onton

with pepmrs, oniens le thce )temate

1 Combinatién Sandu/aches
Colonnade, roast bee, turkuy

russian drasstng, slaw, tomate on RYE

Pay mi (vege tay 1am) Su.%5S, Provolone, Z
a. cheeses cukes, bean Sprouts, 7215

| mushroom), leHuce , tom

 

   

introduces

Philadelphia Style

Hoagies v
? 2.5

/

* 295

‘

*49.95
a

0 85
#905

breast,

uLo,onicn on WHEAT

   

though in one number, the girl, Meg
Gurin, was merely being a flirt when
she was supposed to be a whore.
However, she was an excellent dan-
cer, along with being very beautiful.
Her partner, Frank Affrunti, didn’t
have too much lacking either. For
those of you that think male dancers
are wimps, take a look at his legs
(though I’m sure you’d much rather
look at Meg’s).

The costumes for Meg and Frank’s
number were black with silver and
red sequins. The number the children
liked best, “The Steadfast Tin
Soldier” had the most colorful
costumes. The tin soldier was in full
military regalia and the gypsy had a
long, flowing yellow and orange
costume. There were five rats and a
cat who looked very realistic because
of their papier-mache heads, and two
urchins dressed in baggy 17th cen-

tury clothing. The one who did the
five-and-a-half foot leap had a jack-
in-the-box costume with red, dark
green and white checks. The father
reminded me a lot of a butler, partly
because of his very proper costume
— tails.

Joffrey performers have dance
classes about five hours a day, which
for the men consists mainly of lifting
120 pounds of gir] for five hours. They
are on tour for up to eight months
each year, and one of the performers,
Adam Sklute, has not seen his mother
ina year and a half.

Sklute is the youngest male dancer
in the company, and he has only been
a member since this summer. The
ages in the company range from 16 to
22. The dancers who have not gradu-
ated from high school are taking cor-
respondence courses, and many pro-
bably will never go to college.

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson ST.

 

Audio Technica
AT6015
Record Cleaner

$ ] 6?° Reg. $24°5

Phone 463-218

       
 

  

——

 

 

Maxell
UDXLIT90

PS10 $299° pr,
Reg. $600°

PS8 $199° pr.
Reg. $400

 

     
   
 

a

 

Design Acoustics 50%

 

Boston
Acoustics

   

 

A70 $249
Reg. $280°pr.

 

maxell.

   

Sees 90-Minute
Blank

C
UDXLIIC9% si

$27 %.0.

 

Now

$1590

Reg. $190”

 

 

 

  

Full selection of Car Steroes

  
  

 

 

 

   
   

     

inancdal Ai Neweamb turiay vrast,ham ,credday including: JVC, Son
& Financial Aid cate» Sas (shan droscing, tomate * 3236 g: : Y :
an wWaear Boston Acoustics, Panasonic
of the Fuqua School Tucker corned boo, Peake Salar, swt9s ;
will be on campus ' Chee, slaw, russian dressing, tomato "225
«< tye : ; :
Wednesday, October 24 ean with chips # kosher dill ptckle slice.
-served hot on request
Appointment information may be obtained TAKE ovT : 463-8478
by contacting: seat ere nee ee ee we ee ee “
} - wtth ts ad-
iz 91 Financing Available
Office of Career Development iS 50¢ off any of these sandunchts : inancing Availa
and Placement IS between 5-8em. thru OCT. 257 3| A Division of Value Mart
| 2175 Magnolia Ave., Buena Vista
cen fee cee eee cee ee eee me eS See eee | ae RD GED OND GED GRD GRE GED GE GHD GUN GHD GES GED GN GUD GD Go GD ene ome a A n . i A eae pepe

 

i a a Pee y
 

 

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi

SPORTS

Simple errors,
mental defeat
hit grid squad

TIME

week, there was one incessant question
OUT.... that seemed to echo from every idle chit-
chat on campus, whether it be among pro-
fessors, or students or men from buildings
and grounds. The question: What’s wrong
with W&L football? Why is W&L losing and
why are they getting beat so decisively.

 

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

Well, believe it or not, I cannot put my finger on it. What I can say is that
the games W&L has lost so far were games I thought, going in, were able to
be won. I’m sure in reflection Coach Gary Fallon thinks if things had been
just a tad different in a number of occasions, the outcomes might have been
all that different.

There isn’t much fear here that the Generals will finish at .500 or better. If
they don’t, it won’t be because they were outmanned on the field. The pro-
blem is why there should be any doubt at all about the team finishing on the
up side this fall.

What one can do is to point to a number of little things that, while perhaps
not totally explaining the lack of success in numbers, anyway, do at least
appear to be contributing factors in the W&L malaise this fall.

First and foremost, for the large portion of most of their games this fall,
the Generals seem to be doubting whether they can win. Case in point was
Saturday when W&L appeared as fired up as any team I’ve ever seen.
What’s more, the boys in blue win the opening kickoff. They proceed to go
nowhere fast and dig that early hole that they've been doing all season.

Something in this area of the game plan has got to change. That first
possession sets the tone for the game. Make sure that you do something
(work a trick play, knock someone on his rear end, yell at someone,
whatever) to keep that level of intensity. Don’t let your opponent have any
inkling that he’s remotely got any kind of an edge.

A second point is obvious, but worth mentioning. The little mistakes have
been killing the Generals. I don’t know how these mistakes can be avoided
other than to remind those making them to simply think. I have every con-
fidence that the Generals are smart enough to think, to step up in the pocket,
to not panic, to go beyond the x’s and 0’s on the chalkboard and make the ex-
ceptional play (I know they can do this. They’ve shown it. Look at Maryville
and last week.) , and to recognize when something’s not working.

Finally and this is a point the moaners and groaners have failed to
vocalize, if not realize — these four losses have been to very good football
teams, teams that don’t need an excess of open doors to get the jump on you.
Macon, Emory & Henry and the Squids may very well go to the wire for the
ODAC title. The Centre game was on the road, far away, and here’s a guess
that this team or any W&L squad does not travel well. (For those wondering,
Maryville and Centre are only in the same state geographically, not ability-
wise.) To win any one of these games required a much-better-than-average
performance from the Generals, a level of play that unfortunately didn’t
materialize.

In conclusion, this has been an indictment of no one. I think the team is cer-
tainly good enough to win the rest of its games. I also think they were
capable of winning some of those lost. Once they realize that fact fully — a
feat they’re quite capable — those Sunday brunch quarterbacks will have
nothing to moan and groan about....

....Other Colonnade notes: Tip of the hat to the harriers on their feat in
Farmville over the weekend. Not that cross country is much of a spectator
sport, but Saturday the Generals will be home for the only time this year. If
you get a chance, be there for the finish, a little before 12:30...

....One final note, talk about your contradictory actions, NCAA chief
Walter Byers is seriously concerned that subsidized athletics are nearing the
breaking point, that in reality what many top Division I-A teams are nothing
more than well-paid semi-professional squads. He estimates players may be
receiving $20,000 a year. Problem with his concern is that at the same time,
the famed Proposition 48 (700 minimum SAT’s for scholarship athletes) is
being tamed to avoid discrimination of blacks. Sounds nice (as in “Nice
book, Lisa’), but c’mon Walt, you can’t have it both ways, either you believe
in the first part of the term ‘‘student-athlete”’ or you don’t....

MONDAY
MADNESS!

 

The Generals’ Danny Jayne (33) bursts through the line in third
quarter action from Saturday’s 41-21 loss to arch-rival Hampden-

By WILLIAM KING
Staff Reporter

 

The rivalry between Washington
and Lee and the University of the
South might not carry the same in-
tensity as does the one with Ham-
pden-n-Sydney, but do not think for
one second that the two teams treat
the annual contest as just another
game.

“This rivalry has built up since
I’ve been here,’’ W&L head coach
Gary Fallon said. “The schools are
very similar. Both are academically
oriented and have the same type of
kids. When we recruit in the South,
the name Sewanee often comes up.

James White’s third-quarter field goal got W&L
within six points of the Tigers, but that would be the

DOMINO’S | TopPiNG
PIZZA

We end up playing against the kids
we recruited.”’

“It’s a good rivalry,’ said Sewanee
boss Horace Moore. ‘‘The alumni of
both schools are from the same areas
of the country, and we usually go
after the same young men.”’

“I practically raised (W&L co-
captain and senior tailback) Gene
Girard,” Moore said. ‘‘I had him ata
summer camp. He was a good, tough
kid then, and he still is. He also is a
good football player.’’

Both W&L (2-4) and Sewanee (0-5)
are coming off lopsided losses last
week. Sewanee was defeated sound-
ly; 56-8, by Georgia Southwestern,
and W&L lost a Homecoming Week-

 

 

October 18, 1984

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Sydney. W&L goes back to the chalkboard again in preparation for
this week’s game against Sewanee at Wilson Field.

Generals face 0-5 Sewanee here Sat.

end contest to H-SC, 41-21. Both
teams need a victory this week to get
back on track.

Against the H-SC last week, W&L
was the victim of three big plays that
proved to be the difference in the
game

The Tigers got on the scoreboard
first five minutes into the first
quarter when Brad Cary kicked a 21-
yard field goal. After the Generals
failed to move the ball on their se-
cond possession, the snap from cen-
ter sailed over punter B.J. Sturgill’s
head, giving the Tigers the ball on the
W&L one-yard line. Tiger fullback
Eric person scored on the next play,

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Generals’ last gasp as Hampden Sydney scored 20
more unanswered points to hand W&L its fourth loss.

TUESDAY!

increasing the H-SC lead to 10-0.

In the second quarter, W&L re-
serve fullback Danny Jayne scored
on a one-yard run that had been set
up by his 21-yard run on the preced-
ing play. James White missed the ex-
tra point, making the score 10-6.

Cary kicked his second field goal,
this one from 46 yards, with 3:42 re-
maining in the half to extend H-SC’s
lead to 13-46. The Generals came right
back with a score of their own when
quarterback Jon Thornton threw a
54-yard touchdown strike to wide
receiver Hugh Finkelstein with only
19 seconds remaining in the half.
W&L’s two-point attempt failed,
leaving the score 13-12 at halftime.

Two plays in the third quarter kill-
ed whatever chances of victory the
Generals had. On the first play from
scrimmage in the second half, Tiger
tailback David Kelly ran 61 yards
around left end for a touchdown. The
Tigers went for two and made it, upp-
ing their lead to 21-12. After White
had pulled the Generals to within six
points at 21-15 with his 39-yard field
goal, H-SC defensive tackle Doug
Parsons intercepted an attempted
screen pass by W&L quarterback
Bobby Wilson and returned it 14
yards for a touchdown. The Tigers in-
creased their lead to 41-15 with two
fourth-quarter scores. W&L got its
last score with 6:07 remaining in the
game when Thornton hit tight end
Ian Banwell with an 11-yard scoring
toss, making the final score 41-21.

Kelly was a one-man show for the
Tigers, rushing for 213 yards on only
20 carries and scoring once. H-SC had
387 yards of total offense, with all but
64 of those yards coming on the
ground.

W&L generated most of its offense
through the air as it was unable to
establish a running game. Thornton
completed 11 of 18 passes for 257
yards and two scores but was sacked
seven times for 87 yards in losses.
The Generals had only 25 net yards
rushing as the Tiger defense had
tackles for losses totaling 125 yards.

“T was disappointed in the margin
of defeat,’’ Fallon said. ‘“‘We put
ourselves in a hole, came back to
make it close, and then we made
some more mistakes. But despite the
score, I feel we played well at
times.”

Fallon warned that his team must
not take winless Sewanee too lightly
if itis to win.

 

 

 

DELIVERS"

“They are 0-5, but they have lost to
five good teams,”’ Fallon said. ‘‘They
are used to tough opponents. They
will be hungry when we play them
because they know they can compete
with us. The hungry athlete is the
most dangerous one.”’

The Generals lead the overall ser-
ies with Sewanee 17-15. However,
Sewanee has won the last two years
(16-10 in 1983) and the last eight
games between the two teams have
been decided by a touchdown or less.

Kickoff is set for 1:30 p.m. Satur-

Get
on any 12"

one free topping.
pizza.

$1 Off any large
one-item pizza.

 

 

 

 

 

 

WILD THURSDAY} peace

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LUNCH (C2
SPECIAL! a

begin 10/23
ote 12"

WEDNESDAY!

Let Domino's Pizza make your week!

Take advantage of our exciting specials!
No coupon necessary, just call and ask.
These offers expire November 15, 1984,

Classes now forming

' Ge two-ite
Buy one large pizza et — tem 4 Classes now forming
for the orite of & hell pizza and two Cokes
P : Cc i fOr -s).99 plus: tax, a Classes now forming
a us. 463-7375 Good between the hours
on io of 11AM and 4PM, ,

Classes now forming

For a free brochure and an invitation to a Free

—" call Toll Free: 800-222-TEST

The National Center for Educational Testing
3414 Peachtree Rd. NE Suite 526
Atlanta, GA 30326

At home? Ata friend’s?
In a hurry, or just hungry?
Domino's Pizza delivers

a hot, delicious pizza in
30 minutes or less

Call us.

Fast, Free Delivery™

OF
Clk:

Our drivers carry less
than $20.00.

Limited delivery area.
©1984 Domino's Pizza, inc.

     

PIZZA
e
The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1984, Page 7

 

cross country third in state

By STEVE GREENEBAUM
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee cross
country team finished third Saturday
in the Virginia State Division II and
III championships, held at Hampden-
Sydney College. Maybe third does not

‘ sound all that impressive, but it is.

The Generals are the first Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference team ever
to place in the top three.

“We did not run well,”’ Coach Dick
Miller said. ‘But I will certainly take
a third place finish against that cali-
ber of teams.” It was a very difficult
field of 120 runners from 14 teams.

“The race started on a track. It
looked like the start of a marathon,”’
Ken Moles said. ‘It was exciting just

 

' By JAY WERNER
: Staff Reporter

 

Touchdowns by reserves Walter
Payton and Zeke Mowatt lifted the

: Winners to a 44-38 overtime victory
' Over the previously unbeaten Com-

monbacks Monday night.

No, this was not an NFL game. No,
not even a USFL game. An Interna-
tional Football League game? No
way. This was an NPL game. That’s
right, The National Phootball
League. You say you’ve never heard
of the NPL. That’s hard to believe
when you consider the fact that all
the teams in the league are owned
and operated by members of the
W&L faculty and staff, and that the
league commissioner is W&L News
Director Jeff Hanna.

Polo evens

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

After trailing 6-1 at the end of the
first period, the Washington and Lee
water polo team outscored M.I.T.
10-2 to earn an 11-8 overtime victory
at the Northeast Varsity Invitational
in Providence, R. I. last weekend.

In addition to defeating M.I.T., the
Generals (10-10-1) lost two games
during last weekend’s competition.
W&L suffered losses to Army 13-8
and Harvard 16-8.

Discussing his strategy during the
fourth quarter against M.I.T., Rem-
illard said that he had his team play
for a tie and go for a win in overtime.

“*We couldn’t afford to turn the ball
over while we were going for the win-
ning shot and give M.I.T. another
chance to score.”’

Remillard said his team would
have a better chance of winning the
game if his team could push the
game into overtime. The Generals
outscored M.I.T. 3-0 in the overtime
period.

Remillard attributed his team’s
comeback victory to his team’s con-
fidence in its ability to score.
Remillard said that when the Gener-
als began playing better offense,
M.L.T. had to play tougher defense,
which in turn detracted from M.I.T.’s
offensive effort.

Remmilard cited Tim Stanford and
Bobby Pearson for playing ‘110 per-
cent” all weekend. He also stated
that freshmen David Hall and David

Rugby team

downs JMU,
to play VMI

By KEN JACOBY
Special to the Phi

 

 

The Washington and Lee rugby
club improved its record to 3-1 Satur-
day with a 20-12 victory over a team
from James Madison University at
W&L.

The team, which does not have var-
sity status, has also defeated the
teams from the University of Virgin-
ia and Hampden-Sydney College this
season, while losing only to a club
from Roanoke.

Team member Chris Komosa, a
junior, said that while the players en-
joy playing rugby, he doesn’t think
the sport will ever achieve varsity
status.

“There aren’t a lot of guys coming
out of high school who know enough
about the game,” Komosa said.

He added, however, that interest in
rugby at W&L is relatively strong
because many larger schools have
trouble fielding teams.

The W&L team will take on a team
from the Virginia Military Institute
Sunday at VMI. The following week-
end, the team will participate in a
State championship tournament at
Charlottesville.

Yale Law School

 
    

representative in

Univ. Center

Oct. 23
11:00am.and1:30pm.

at

SSSI E

being there."’

When all was through and over
with, Liberty Baptist College won the
race and the meet. The team’s first
place finisher was Jim Olling, who
finished with a time of 25:29.

Liberty Baptist had runners finish
in first, third, fifth, seventh and
eighth places, earning 24 points.
Christopher Newport College finish-
ed second with 89 points.

W&L was led by Frank Pittman in
12th place in 26:59, one minute and 30
seconds out of first place. Three
seconds later came Eddie Goundry
(27:02) in 14th place. Richard Moore
(27:57) in 23rd place, David Andrews
(28:05) in 32nd and Gordon Ogden
(28:25) in 41st helped earn the
Generals a total of 113 points.

Football? No, Phootball

The NPL is the ultimate armchair
owner’s league. Here’s how it works.
The league is composed of 10 teams
divided into the Long and Short Divi-
sions. Each team consists of 12 play-
ers. Each week W&L’s would-be
George Halases submit a seven-play-
er starting lineup to the league office.
This lineup includes a quarterback,
two running backs, two wide recei-
vers, a tight end and a placekicker.

The NPL team then receives a
point for every point that each player
scores in his NFL game. Quarter-
backs get six points for every
touchdown pass they complete.

The NPL was founded at W&L by
Jeff Hanna in September 1981. Be-
cause he had been involved with
similar leagues in the past, he ap-
pointed himself commissioner of the

Other ODAC teams finishing in-
cluded Hampden-Sydney in fifth
place with 133 points and Roanoke
College in seventh with 183 points.

The Generals, who remain 6-0 in
dual-meet competition, will bring the
Victory Tour to Lexington this Satur-
day hosting West Virginia Institute of
Technology, Bridgewater College
and Newport News Apprentice
School. This will be the only home
meet for the Generals on their five-
mile course.

“The course is one of the hardest
I’ve ever run,”’ said co-captain Mark
Pembroke. ‘‘The hills don’t help you
since they are steep and rocky going
down. They slow you down too
much.”

NPL and staged the league’s first
draft. The NPL has been going
strong ever since.

Procedurally, the NPL operates
much the same as the NFL Players
can be placed on waivers, and free
agents can be signed throughout the
season. :

The NPL regular season lasts 13
weeks, after which the playoffs
begin. The playoffs consist of a Divi-
sion Championship game, with the
winners meeting in the Supper Bowl,
the NPL’s equivalent of the Super
Bowl.

Hanna is quick to point out that
there is little skill and much luck in-
volved in the game. “The only skill
involved is making sure that the
players that you draft have not
retired.”’

ro. -_
i ee

%
* 7

| Junior Forward David E

 

—-—— -—

its record with overtime MIT win

Weaver played well, especially dur-
ing the General’s comeback against
M.L.T.

“Usually when you put a freshman
in the game you risk slowing the
team’s momentum or their screwing
up,”’ Remillard said, ‘“‘but they (Hall
and Weaver) went in and played real-
ly well.”

Although W&L went 1-2 last week-
end, Remillard said that his team
continued to improve. ‘‘Our counter-
attack looked really good and our 6-
on-5 offense is improving,’ said
Remillard.

Comparing this year’s improving
team to last year’s, which improved
greatly from beginning to end, Rem-
illard said that this year’s team
possesses better players in the field,
but that this one mi last year’s
All-American goalie Kevin Kadesky.

This weekend the 1984 Generals at-
tempt to win W&L’s fourth consecu-
tive Southern League Championship
when the Generals host that tourna-
ment in Cy Twombly Pool. The tour-
nament begins on Friday and con-
tinues through Sunday

The Generals face archrival and
tournament favorite Richmond on
Saturday at 1 p.m. Richmond enters
this weekend’s tournament ranked
fourth on the East Coast among
NCAA Division I water polo teams
and has defeated the Generals once
this season, 14-8.

“It would definitely be an upset,”’
said Remillard, but he believes that
the Generals have a very good

chance to defeat Richmond this

“extra man in the crowd”’ will play a
weekend.

crucial role in Saturday’s game.

“If Jeff Cohen (shallow-end goalie)
is on, we could win our third title, but
if they (Cohen and deep end goalie
Charlie Groh) don’t have an average
game we'll have to fight for second,”
said Remillard. ‘‘A few people have
to play over their heads, which ath-
letes do all of the time.”’

Remillard also believes that the

Phone: 463-3614

Budweiser, 12-pk. °524

Lonestar, 6-pk. +g

“Our players respond to crowd
support,” he said, ‘“‘They want to
show their friends what they have
been practicing all fall.”

UNC-Wilmington, South Carolina,
Virginia Commonwealth and Virgin-
ia will be joining in the Southern

ckhardt (6) looks to get
around his Gettysburg opponent in the Generals’ 5-1
loss Saturday morning. The team stands at 4-5 on the
season and will travel north to face the always tough

       

By Cotton Pars ear/The Ring-tum Phi
Messiah squad. It was a double setback Saturday. The
Generals also lost senior tri-captain Mark Sullivan for

the year with a broken ankle.

 

League
weekend.

EAST LEX

Mon.-Sun. 9-12

 

Tue <rupenT ACTIVITIES BOARD

PRESENTS
4v¥F ww cowk

we

Spm showing each night SuNDAY
AvDmission $150
duPont Auditorium

FRiDay,
SATU!

 

Com:

5S shot
Non

: Fu
"HOLLY Woon

 

 

WeeXend
The Halle Cc “
eaiest wt Sdn

ERASERHEAD

"AND o

‘HARDWARE WARS
BE PREPARED ‘™! “!ZARDOF speeo + Nee
———_

Next

colt Peleg

“Fase MEADS

 

Be frepared
ed

 

 

  

—SENIORS—

Because of a prior commitment of our
senior photographer, no pictures will be

taken October 1

9 - November 4.

The photo sessions will resume November

5 and continue through November 16.

lf you have already signed up for a time that has

now become unavailab

le, please sign up in the

Co-op for a new time.

We are sorry for this inconvenience.

—THE CALYX

 

%

 

t

 

 

Natty Bo LN

RECORDS

 

 

Tuborg 6-pk.

Championships _ this

i

Factory Discount
Furniture

Everyday low prices for
Beds ¢ Tables * Couches ¢ Lamps
Dressers ¢ Cannon Towels & Wash Cloths
Irregular Sheets ¢ Tools and more
Phone: 463-2184 Mon.-Sat. 9-6
Located next to Lamberts on Rt. 11

 

$553

$2.19

Restaurant and Delicatessen

¥

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

 

 

 

SEASON
The Shootist Sports Center

      

| | |
| | (AA) |
| SKEET LOADS | TRAP Oana | |
WINCHESTER.
AA Skeet Loads
89
JUST alan

Return your hulls for refund
of .02* each
Net cost $4.39 per box.

ae

$3Q9%

AUTO-5 SHOTGUNS

 
 

I

3 Inch Magnum

~—w:

 

 

SPECIALS

from

across from Kenny’s
Lexington, Va.

 

Alaska Down
No. 118 Parka

Camouflage T/C shell, nylon
lined, detachable poly fill
hood. 50/50 down filled body.
Poly fill sleeves. Four
pockets w/extra shell pocket
on lower right storage
pocket. Drawstring. 31”
long. Woodland pattern,

   
  
    
   
  

SALE

 

AMMO

   
 

30-06
.308
.270

  
   

69

per box

99

per box

     
 
 

  

  
    
 
 

  

.30-30

  
   

49

per 100RDS_

  

Vent Rib .22 HP

eae

nn

Call
463-4339 |

9 a.m.-8 p.m. Daily 2
(Except Sunday) 3

 

 

 

   

sight 12’s
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1984

 

 

  

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

eis 2

> eo

F oe alee hal
2 % #

 

 

¥ 2g: i : a 4 Net eh Pi ell
By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Pizza Hut
NOW

Delivers!!

$2 OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA

Or $1 off any medium. Hurry, this offer expires soon.

SPECIAL
l ofl IVE:
pELITERV

Pizza

Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon per party
per delivery at participating Pizza Hut’ Special Delivery units

Not valid for dine-in or carryout, or in conjunction with any
other Pizza Hut’ offer. 1/20¢ redemption value. ¢ 1984,

Pizza Hut, Inc. Limited Delivery Area
Offer good only on regular prices through 10-31-84 Hut.
600 E. Nelson FREE

463 “ 7000 Lexington, Va, DELIVERY

  
   

 

   

 

we

ceuawaeeaye
wae
4 ln
a
a #

coe
»

\

Vs

 
  

By W. Patrick Hinely /(W&L By Cotton Puryear /The Ring-tum Phi *

  

Sights of Homecoming Weekend included (counter-clockwise from

upper right): Shor Patrol member plays Friday night in the pavilion;

members of the 1934 W&L football team joined the 1984 Generals as

honorary captains for Saturday’s game; a group of W&L fans enjoys the

game; this banner was unfurled behind the Tigers’ bench; a Spinner

sings to the crowd Friday night.

ae

FOR SALE

 

Student Rental House

Two Kennex Silver Ace (graphite) Tennis Rackets Available
Fair-Good Condition - $50 each
Phone: 463-7249

 

Call 463-4621

 

    

 

  

SENIORS

COMING SOON -
to the University Theater!

 
 

Resumes are due Oct. 24
For the Resume Book:

 

 

 
   

 

 

Students and Faculty FREE

 
 

Juno

And
The

Paycock

 
     
 

The Shop for As
PAPPAGALLO

 
 

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

  

23 NORTH MAIN STREE

LEXINGTON, VIRGINI~A
463-5988

o>.
