 

 

VOLUME 84, NUMBER 29

 

General
Notes

 

Honor thy system

The past, present and future of
the Honor System in light of the
coeducation transition is the sub-
ject of a symposium Monday
sponsored by Omicron Delta Kap-
pa, the honorary leadership or-
ganization. The seminar, the sec-
ond in a series titled ‘‘Preserving
Tradition through Transition,”
will be held at 7 p.m. in room 327
of the Commerce School. Stu-
dents, faculty and administrators
are invited to attend and par-
ticipate.

Dead ‘C’ scrolls:

Seniors who would like their
Calyx to be mailed to a home ad-
dress different from that in the
University directory (the green
book) should leave the alternate
address with Carole Chappell by
May 25. Books will be mailed to
seniors at no charge directly from
the publisher during the first week
of September.

Psalm sung blue

The student band The Excuse is
playing at Sounds Alive in Buena
Vista tonight from 8:30 to 11:30.
Cover charge is $1.

..but no figs

“Robinson Crusoe’’ will be pre-
sented by the Politics Film Festi-
val tonight at 7 in Commerce
School 327. Using almost no dia-
logue in this 100-minute film,
director Luis Bunuel shows the
complexities confouding even the
smallest of all political systems as
Crusoe confronts Friday. Dan
O’Herlihy stars. (Bring your
date. )

| have a thesis

The Politics Film Festival's
next presentation will be ‘‘Martin
Luther,’”’ a 100-minute 1953 Eng-
lish film, Wednesday and Thurs-
day, May 22 and 23, at 7 p.m. in
Commerce School 327. Luther is
portrayed as the first modern re-
volutionary, a forerunner of Lenin
and Hitler, in seeking to alter not
just the leadership but the very
precepts on which political power
rested — and still does.

Gather some

Robert Moss, the author of sev-
eral best-selling novels of political
intrigue, will discuss international
terrorism during a lecture Tues-
day at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Moss’
talk is sponsored by Contact ’85.

Bibles and bombs

Douglas P. Lackey, professor of
philosophy at Baruch College of
the city University of New York,
will discuss ‘‘Moral Principles
and Nuclear Weapons’’ in a lec-
ture Monday at 8 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium. The lecture is spon-
sored by the university lectures
committee and the departments
of philosophy and religion.

Moneychangers

Y.S. Brenner, professor of eco-
nomics at the University of U-
trecht, Netherlands, will speak
about “The Current European
Economic Crisis: An Unorthodox
View’’ next Thursday at 2:30 p.m.
in Commerce School 327. Brenner
is the author or co-author of seven
books on economics.

Admissionaries

The deadline for applying for
the Student Recruitment Commit-
tee has been extended until tomor-
row. Interested students should
sign up for interviews in the Ad-
missions Office, All current mem-
bers must confirm their positions
for next year.

Come, they told me

The following organizations are
scheduled to present budget re-
ports to the Executive Committee
on Monday at 7 p.m. in the EC
room : the Hockey Club, the Politi-
cal Review, the Mock Convention
and the Student Emergency Loan
Committee.

The last supper

Seniors, don’t forget: The senior
banquet will be held Wednesday
at 6 p.m., beginning in Lee Cha-
pel.

 

 

 

Lax ends

season

Page 5

Che King-t

WASHINGTON ANDLEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

THE Onevererry LJ6RA

WASFENGPOM @ L£c

LEXMN@rProM

wi
The Back Page

Putting on
a show

 

  
  

Page 6

 

wf
Ja

  
 
  
   

a
a

By Bruce Potter/The Ring-tum Phi

You deserve a break...

University of Redlands tennis players enjoy a fast-food dinner (above)
while watching Kalamazoo's Tim Corwin (below), the number two seed in
the country, in yesterday’s national team final. Earlier in the day, W&L
coach Gary Franke watched his team finish eighth in the tournament (left).
Swarthmore won the national championship over Kalamazoo, 5-4.

(Complete tennis coverage , Page 5.)

By Bruce Potter/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

Your weekend weather

 

 

m Whi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Showers likely until Sunday;
highs in 70s, lows in 50s

 

MAY 16, 1985

Faculty OKs
drug policy;
board to vote

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Chief Editor

 

The faculty on Monday approved a
new University drug and disciplinary
policy that says Washington and Lee
“does not condone’’ the possession or
use of drugs or the overuse of alcohol.

The policy was endorsed at a 90-
minute special meeting of the facul-
ty. The plan, approved for a trial
period of as long as three years, will
be submitted to the Board of Trustees
for consideration at its May 24-25
meeting.

A student-faculty Drug Policy
Review Committee established by
University President John D. Wilson
at the request of the trustees had
originally recommended that drug
use or possession should not be pun-
ishable by the University.

The committee modified that posi-
tion and recommended that drug reg-
ulations continue to be enforced in
the dormitories after Head Dormi-
tory Counselor Bob Tomaso said that
the policy would put his colleagues in
“an impossible situation.’’ The Exe-
cutive Committee and a majority of
dorm counselors voted to support To-
maso’s view.

The faculty approved the 12-mem-

‘ber committee’s report as amended

and narrowly rejected a minority re-
port recommending additional facul-
ty involvement in the student disci-
plinary system.

The new disciplinary structure
“gives a lot more responsibility to
the Student Control Committee,”

EC rejects bid to deny president’s vote

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

All the White Book

week, must be approved again next Monday to go

 

A White Book Revisions Committee proposal to
take away the Executive Committee president's
vote in closed honor hearings failed 2-7 Monday

night.

Another proposal, to add ‘‘Student Not In Good
Standing”’ to the transcript of any student found
guilty in an open or closed hearing, passed 4-3-2.

Under this new proposal, the student charged
with an honor violation who withdraws before his
closed hearing will not have this statement stamp-
ed on his transcript. Instead, the statement that
the student, unless otherwise noted, is in good

into effect.

spoke in favor of taking

vote.”’

Determined

Exchange student adapts
to changes in China, life

 

By PAUL J. SMITH
Staff Reporter

 

Some things are uncertain. For
Ying Wang-Yuen, a Washington and
Lee exchange student from Hong
Kong, much of life can be character-
ized that way.

During the Cultural Revolution,
Ying was arrested by Chinese au-
thorities in Peking. She was suspect-
ed of corroborating with other stu-
dents for the purpose of overthrowing
the Chinese Communist Party
(CCP). Ying spent three trying years
in a rustic, old prison, separated
from her family and her friends, an
experience that began her literary
career and resulted in the publication
of ‘‘Female Prisoner,’’ now in its sec-
ond printing.

Her experience in jail made her
philosophical. “I had to adapt to this
new situation,”’ she said. ‘I had to
know what my ultimate goal and
value was, and how I was to survive
to keep this goal.” She has kept this
goal alive, and is now a student at
The Chinese University of Hong
Kong.

Ying’s original interest lay in the
natural sciences. But since her three
years as a political prisoner in China,
she has decided she has a duty to be
actively involved in the future politi-
cal direction of China

‘When I went to jail, I decided to
study literature and social science,”’
she said with a radiance of will. ‘I

have a duty to China’s national fu-
ture.”’

Ying has spent much of her life in
the heart of Chinese politics, Peking.
In 1956, at the age of 7, her family
moved from Shanghai to Peking,
where she started elementary school.

As she advanced through school,
Ying became curious about her en-
vironment. ‘‘I liked to ask questions
when I was young,”’ she said.

Ying’s inquisitiveness pleased her
teachers, who thought her to be an
excellent student, but soon her ques-
tions became political. Her parents
began to worry. She once pointed out
to her teachers that a certain article
in the CCP Constitution guaranteed
every citizen the right to speak and
publish freely.

‘‘T didn’t think this was true,’’ she
said flatly. But her questions did not
end there. At one time, she actually
refused to join the Communist Youth
League.

“Every student wrote an applica-
tion to join the Communist Youth
League, but I didn’t want to. Then the
teacher asked me why I didn’t want
to write the letter. Because I could
not be sure that the communist party
was the goal of human society,’’ she
explained.

In 1966, Chairman Mao Zedong de-
clared the ‘‘Proletariat Cultural Re-
volution,’’ designed to promote an
idelogical transformation in Chinese
society by eliminating bourgeois ele-
ments from China’s past. Mao wish-
ed to invoke the ideals of the revolu-

standing with the University will be deleted.

EC President Cole Dawson and junior represen-
tative Pat Hayden voted in favor of withdrawing
the president's vote in closed honor hearings.

Richard Earles, a third-year law student and a
member of the White Book Revisions Committee,

in closed honor proceedings.

“Tt gives the accused a psychological advan-
tage,’’ Earles said. ‘‘This way, the accused knows
there’s someone on the EC who doesn’t have a

revisions approved this

First-year law representative James Crutch-
field opposed the proposal and compared the pres-
ident’s role to that of a judge. A judge, Crutchfield

insisted, must act as an impartial moderator

said.

away the president’s vote

throughout a hearing and then be asked to make a
decision after hearing both sides of an issue.

“‘T don’t see how taking away [the president’s]
vote will make him any less partial,’ Crutchfield

The proposal met similar opposition last week,
when several EC members said they thought the
student body elected the president to represent it
and taking away his vote defeated that purpose.

The proposal to add ‘‘Student Not in Good Stand-

C)See Honor, Page 4

 

 

 

 

By Sean Connolly /The Ring-tum Phi

Ying Wang-Yuen, a Washington and Lee exchange student, in her Woods

Creek Apartment.

tion into the youth; thus he invited
the youth to become the vanguard of
his will, through the ‘‘Red Guards”
and political discussion movements.
Part of the revolution included Mao’s
desire to cleanse the party of his
enemies, especially Liu Shaogqi.

During the Cultural Revolution,
Ying was heavily criticized for her
statements by her peers, who labeled
her a reactionary. ‘‘My friends would
come up to me and scream ‘How can
you be such a reactionary?’ ’’ she
said. One time the students went to
her home, broke in and destroyed old
books, paintings and sculptures
which they deemed ‘“‘reactionary.”’
Her parents became more and more
concerned that her behavior was go-
ing to lead to trouble for the whole
family

She recalls her own and her fellow
students’ reaction to the Cultural

Revolution. ‘‘We learned that the
reality was so different from what we
had learned at school,”’ she said. ‘‘We
had a duty to change and reform be-
cause Mao gave us the power to
change.”’

One such reality was the elimina-
tion of Liu Shaogi from the CCP. ‘‘We
[students] thought Liu was good,”
Ying recalled. ‘‘He was most in-
terested in helping the economics of
China. Before Mao declared Liu
Shaogi an enemy, we were taught
that Liu and Mao and the whole
Communist Party were good.”’

As part of the Cultural Revolution,
Ying, along with her fellow youth, at-
tended political discussions. Later,
she was sent to Inner Mongolia with
25 other students as part of a govern-
ment-required regimen for political
reeducation that included living and
working with the peasants. The

See China, Page 3

according to psychology Professor
Leonard E. Jarrard, chairman of the
drug review committee.

Jarrard, who has headed his de-
partment since 1971 and for the last
12 years has taught a course about
the effects of psychoactive drugs,
called the plan “unique’’ among
schools and said ‘‘the students have
really gained by this.’’

“T think it really strengthens the
right of students to govern them-
selves, and I hope they’ll rise to the
occasion,’ he said. “‘It’s quite a
challenge for students.’”’

Jarrard said the amendments to
the committee’s report passed by the
faculty state specifically that the
Dean of Students has jurisdiction
over drug possession in the dormitor-
ies, but that the policy includes other
University housing and might have
even broader application.

“Any time the dean of students
hears about the use of a drug, I would
think he would talk to the person,”’ he
said. “If I were the dean, I would in-
terpret that to mean other areas as
well.”

Under the committee’s plan, Stu-
dent Control has jurisdiction over
cases involving drug sales and can
suspend or expel students for ‘‘major
offenses’’ delineated in the policy.

Those offenses include ‘‘sexual as-
sault, including unwanted sexual
touching,’’ the “use of racial, ethnic
or sexual slurs,” possession of drugs
other than marijuana with intent to
distribute them and the sale of mari-
juana for profit.

C)See Drugs, Page 3

Just kidding

Executive Committee President
Cole Dawson ‘announced at Mon-
day’s EC meeting that school of-
ficials are no longer considering
shortening the University _Li-
brary’s 24-hour schedule.

University Treasurer E. Ste-
wart Epley confirmed the deci-
sion. ‘“‘As far as I’m concerned,
it’s a dead issue,”’ he said.

“It’s over and done with — there
are no plans to close the library,”’
he continued. “It caused such a
furor that any plans to close the
library have been nixed.”

 

 

 

Henson found
guilty, fined in
Hunter death

From Staff Reports

 

 

Sophomore P. Edward Henson
pleaded guilty Friday to driving un-
der the influence of alcohol in connec-
tion with the March 17 death of junior
J. Christopher Hunter. A reckless
driving charge against Henson was
dismissed.

Henson, a 20-year-old from Dalton,
Ga., was the driver of the car in
which Hunter was killed after it ran
off the road about half a mile north of
Lexington at 1:30 a.m. A Sigma Al-
pha Epsilon official said at the time
that the two were returning from ‘‘a
fraternity gathering”’ in the country.

The Virginia Bureau of Forensic
Science found that a sample of Hen-
son’s blood taken shortly after the
accident had an alcohol level of .12
percent. Under Virginia law, a per-
son is legally intoxicated at the .10
level.

Rockbridge County General Dis.
trict Judge Joseph E. Hess suspend-
ed Henson’s driver’s license for six
months, Henson also was given a 12-
day jail sentence and fined $1,000, but
$800 of the fine and the jail sentence
were suspended on the condition that
Henson attend an alcohol education
program. The judge added that Hen-'
son is ‘‘not to operate a [motor vehi-
cle] after consuming alcohol.”

Henson, who was not represented
by an attorney, paid the $200 fine and
$20 in court costs.

He was instructed to, if possible,
attend an alcohol education program
in Georgia this summer, and, other-
OSee Crash, Page3
 

OPINION

Page 2
May 16, 1985

 

Gray matter?

“Racism” is an ugly word.

Ugly words abound on this campus.

The current racial tension on campus was altogether too
evident Monday night at the Executive Committee meeting,
where Student Association for Black Unity (SABU) member
Billy Rhinehart and members of the EC discussed the possi-
bility of a black ad hoc member to either the EC or the Stu-
dent Control Committee or both. Tempers began the slow boil
of exasperation.

Putting aside for a moment the question of token black
representation on any committee, we as a eampus need to
take a step backward and look at the situation in a large
perspective. Blacks at Washington and Lee are an obvious
minority. Out of a total enrollment of more than 1,700 on both
the law and undergraduate campuses, fewer than 25 students
are black. Until March, no black student had ever been elect-
ed to the EC. Black membership in social fraternities has
always been next to nil. During Rush deliberations last fall,
at least one house was divided over giving a bid to a black
student simply because of the color of his skin. Racial jokes
are exchanged among white students on and off the Colon-
nade. Black students, almost without exception, all sit
together in the dining hall, as if the table were reserved or as-
signed. Few black students have enjoyed prominent leader-
ship positions on campus.

It is more than coincidence that black history at Washing-
ton and Lee lacks luster and shine. We can assign some of the
blame to the school’s location (after all we did fight a war a
hundred years ago in part because of the question of the
rights of blacks). Other factors include the social structures
present at the school that do not encourage multiracial par-
ticipation and the expressions of white racial superiority still
felt by the very minute black minority. All of these in some
way encourage the continuation of the present system. For
many, it is very convenient that the SABU house on Lee
Avenue can house most black students who do not live in
campus housing.

In this case, though, out of sight does not mean out of mind.
We as a university community must address the problems
and questions of this racial dilemma.

The solution is not in another committee that will study the
problem and come to the same very obvious conclusions.
Pressing questions do not require mundane solutions. Rath-
er, it is time that we examine the petitions for black repre-
sentatives — or minority representatives, as the cases might
be — on the various committees of importance at the school.

First, the EC. While the EC’s job is primarily that of
enforcing the Honor System at this school, it does engage in
other important activities. Dispensing student tax dollars,

- hearing petitions calling for a cleanup of the town and revis-

ing the White Book are not racially sensitive issues. The
presence of a token (and it is tokenism) black or minority
representaive will not bring about any cure. Honor, in and of
itself, is not color sensitive, just as it is not gender sensitive.

- The same arguments can be used to defend the present struc-
- ture of the Student Control Committee and other subcommit-
- tees. All of this, however, only rebuts the argument of token-
: ism. It does nothing to change the status quo, where very real

problems do exist.
Perhaps the change needed, then, is not a structural or ad-

ministrative one, but instead a very personal alteration. Both
- sides need to do some personal examinations of attitudes and
’ opinions. Each side needs to consider and respect the opi-

sane i i
SAAD ADA AD AAD AD

PPP IFIP DP DD
f eter ee aeaare

i tt tor

PP PLPH PPPS PS

Ser Kee ees

nions of the other and see where changes can and should oc-
cur. Why are there so few minority members in social
fraternities? Why is there not more white participation in
SABU? What changes can we make to encourage greater
participation of minorities in each of those groups? What
changes can we institute for next year when the largest class
ever of minority students will be entering the University?

The problems of color-sensitive social life, campus leader-
ship and closet racism have no easy solutions. It will not even
be easy to tell when they are no longer problems. Simply be-
cause a black gets elected to the EC or joins a fraternity does
not mean all the problems have been solved. The victory will
only come with a change in the attitude of both sides and with
the recognition that merit far outweighs the color of one’s
skin.

EXPECTANCIES .1:

 

OURS
(HORS) (ure

WORLDS SHORTEST LIFE A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wns Too!

Wi

 

 

 

 

 

Prof remarks
on AA article
by colleague

To the Editors:

Administration professor Roger A
Dean’s apparent endorsement [W&i
Political Review, Spring 1985] 0
legislation designed to achieve equa
employment opportunity (EEO), an
his opposition to affirmative actio:
(AA) seems to be based upon the as
sumption that a good law is not on
that tries to achieve results, and th
faith that private and public secto
hiring is controlled by people of goo
will earnestly desiring to implemen
economic equality in this country
Mature and reflective W&L busines:
students must judge for themselve;
whether the businessmen and politi
cians they know are genuinely com
mitted to achieving a fair anc
integrated society. They must als
reflect upon the degree to which sec
ondary social considerations mak«
many employers loathe to introduce
minorities or women into surround
ings where ‘‘they just aren’t wanted
or won't fit in.”’

The problem of EEO and Civi

 

 

New heroes or pacesetters?

 

By B. Scott
Tilley

  

sd

Two weeks ago, U.S. News & World
Report released its list of 10 people
that today’s youth most seek to
emulate. These “heroes” are suppo-
sedly the people that 18- to 24-year-
olds nationwide most admire and re-

spect.

First, the good news. American

youth once again are naming heroes.

More than four out of five of those
questioned could name at least one
hero. Only 19 percent refused to

name someone they considered per-
sonally inspiring.

According to the newsmagazine,
the late 1960s and 1970s were a bad
time for the emergence of heroes.
American youth were discouraged by
events in Vietnam and Watergate
and the general ‘‘malaise’’ in the
country that President Jimmy Car-
ter described during his administra-
tion.

But the new trend reflects an at-
titude among American youth that
there are, once again, public figures
who are inspiring and worthy of
emulation.

But now, the bad news: the
“heroes” that emerged from the sur-
vey. The list of heroes was as fol-
lows: 1. Clint Eastwood, 2. Eddie
Murphy, 3. Ronald Reagan, 4. Jane
Fonda, 5. (tie) Sally Field and Steven
Spielberg, 7. Pope John Paul II, 8.
Mother Teresa, 9. (tie) Michael Jack-
son and Tina Turner.

From Hanoi Jane to Dirty Harry to
The Flying Nun to the Papa, it is an
interesting, albeit disconcerting, list
of heroes. Granted, the list is natural-
ly going to be disconcerting to the ty-
pical Washington and Lee man be-
cause of the conspicuous absence of
General Lee, but uneasiness goes
much further than that.

As one reader of the publication
pointed out, how can Jane Fonda and
Ronald Reagan appear side-by-side?
“Someone is sick,’’ he wrote. Ms.
Fonda, who was dubbed ‘Hanoi
Jane” when she traveled to North
Vietnam denouncing American
forces and the American government
and inspiring the Communists to ral-
ly against us, deserves no place on
this list. Perhaps on a list published
by Pravda.

Five of the 10 named to the list, in-
cluding Fonda, specialize in portray-
ing anyone but themselves. East-
wood, Murphy, Spielberg and Field

‘Who needs

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Chief Editors Business Manager
Mike Allen William Schoeffler
Bruce Potter

WOOO IIE so ibe orc iN Ree i car ces ceeececbercceveivestrcisicescas Paul Foutch
Managing Editor

 

“The Back Page" Editor .... Cotton Puryear
Gperes BAO... cece ccc tce ccc cesccccccscsccovcsecceconscrsceeeces Mime Stachera
PE ise Nelson Patterson
PRNIY M oes ahha chs cha ceeecceees creak chs sans Cotton Puryear
CRE PENI 6.055 06-0.05:8 6.00 FV 6k 0.0 in Ce bei ede kaha Peter Crane
Pe ND 6506 oi Gig oi cce sis 4421555045500 ee Alex Bryant
pi ye uk he ee ee Chris Bowring

Chris Gareis
Advertising Salesmen::++++:++s+sseer errr eerereee Chuck Bracken, Hank Greenberg,

Jeff Kimbell, Rob Tolleson

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

To the Editors:

You know, sometimes I wonder
who needs the hearing aid more,
President Reagan, or some of his cri-
tics like Sam Donaldson or John
Pensec. If Mr. Pensec had had the

 

Letters
policy

The Ring-tum Phi invites readers
to submit letters to the editors. Let-
ters should be typed or printed neat-
ly double-spaced on one side of a
piece of paper. Letters must be
received by 5 p.m. Tuesday.

Either leave your letter in The
Ring-tum Phi box, upstairs in the
Student Center, bring it by The Phi
office, Room 200 of the Student Cen-
ter, or mail it to us at P.O. Box 899,

 

 

 

MY VIEW

are the others from the world of en-
tertainment and motion pictures.

These celluloid stars include some
of my personal favorites: Sally Field,
from her days as the Flying Nun has
been my favorite actress, Eddie Mur-
phy is hilarious, Clint Eastwood is a
stud and Steven Spielberg is a genius
(E.T., Gizmo and Indiana Jones all
deserve an honorable mention on any
list of heroes. )

But yet, the fact remains that they
are admired not for who they are, but
for how well they can be somebody
else. Who is being emulated, any-
way? Or maybe, they are admired
because they can get away with mak-
ing mucho bucks for not even being
themselves.

Two singers made the list: Michael
“Thriller’’ Jackson and Tina ‘‘Come-
back Kid’’ Turner. Though I dislike
her music, maybe Turner’s come-
back is in fact something to be ad-
mired. But Jackson? The only contri-
butions I’ve seen from him are the
moonwalk, a catchy Pepsi jingle and
$30 concert tickets. If a singer has to
be included, my vote goes to Bruce
Springsteen, who strives to identify
with mainstream America and is not
commercial about it (although he de-
serves all of the accolades heaped on
him recently). Or even Billy Joel
(anybody who can land Christie
Brinkley earns my respect...and en-
vy).

Of those on the list, that leaves
Reagan, Mother Teresa and the
Pope. All deserve their place on the
list. Reagan, although all might not
agree with his policies, has revived a
pride in America among the people
and rejuvenated our reputation
worldwide. As a student at the Uni-
versity of Denver said, ‘‘He’s symbo-
lic of America. He’s a father figure.
He represents the American dream.”

The latter two both come from the
realm of the Catholic Church. John
Paul II has traveled worldwide in the
name of peace, and Mother Teresa
has given endlessly of herself to aid
the cause of the world’s oppressed
and downtrodden. Both are deserv-
ing, but both are themselves emulat-
ing another hero that used to be a
perennial choice for the list and
deserves a spot of his own (at the top,
I dare say) — Jesus Christ. :

The list is not only surprising
because of who is included, but also
who is not included. No longer do
adventurers, athletes, politicians
(with the exception of Reagan),
military men, business leaders or
scientists make the list. And those
that do qualify are of the ‘‘fly-by-
night”’ variety.

Jim Craig and the 1980 Olympic
hockey team were heroes for but a

brief period, and what has come of
our heroes of the 1984 Olympics? Why
is hero status so fleeting for the Mary
Lou Rettons, Phil Mayres, Greg Lou-
ganises and Edwin Moseses? During
my childhood one of my greatest
heroes was Johnny Bench. But on
this list, there are no Doug Fluties,
Julius Ervings, Dan Marinos, Dale
Murphys or Wayne Gretzkys.

The political realm, like the athle-
tic realm, has suffered through the
hero-for-a-day syndrome. Here to-
day, gone tomorrow types include
Geraldine Ferraro (remember
her?), Gary Hart, Jesse Jackson,
Margaret Thatcher, Sandra Day
O’Connor, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.
Indira Gandhi and Desmond Tutu.
All are recognizable names with sig-
nificant contributions; none were
listed as heroes.

Other heroes soon forgotten in-
clude Sally Ride (remember the first
female astronaut?), Bernard Goetz
(the subway vigilante), Barney
Clark (the first artificial heart reci-
pient) and Lenny. Skutnik. You re-
member him. Three. years ago he
became a national hero when he dove
into the Potomac River to save a
flight attendant after Air Florida
Flight 90 crashed into the 14th Street
Bridge in Washington, D.C.

Once, the greatest heroes came
from the ranks of the military. Gen-
erals Washington and Eisenhower
were great military heroes before
they ascended to the office of presi-
dent. The only names that emerge
from the military in recent years are
those of Gen. Westmoreland and Lt.
Calley. Americans don’t quite
associate them with hero status. But
our military deserves our respect.
The heroes are still there. What
about those who made the valiant in-
vasion of Grenada? Or the 240
marines who died at terrorist hands
in the cause of peace in Beirut? Or
the marine who tried to scribble
“Semper Fi’’ as he died? Or all of the
Vietnam War veterans? Maybe with
our pacifist society as it is, the
military is considered unpopular (an
unfortunate development). But at
least these men, because of what
they gave in the name of peace and
their country, should be recognized
for what they are — heroes.

And don’t forget those Ethiopians
who are valiantly fighting for life and
those, including some recently on
this campus, who are giving of them-
selves to aid in the survival effort of
thousands.

Along that line, USA For Africa
must be included, and thus maybe
not everything I said about Michael
Jackson is valid. It just shows that
our minds can be changed. Let’s hope
they continue to be.

the hearing aid more?’

hearing aid I am sure he would not
have understood the President to say
“the S.S. were victims of the Third
Reich just as much as those who
were tortured and killed during the
war.’”’ Ronald Reagan merely ex-
pressed his feeling that the lowly
draftee in Hitler’s army was a victim
comparable to those of the concen-
tration camps.

Adolf Hitler rose to power through
the legitimate democratic process of
Germany in that era. If called to
serve his country on the battlefield,
the lowly draftee would have no more
right to deny his commander-in-chief
than an American draftee would
have had to deny Franklin Roose-
velt’s order. These soldiers died
thinking they were serving their
homeland, mom and Mercedes Benz.
Even those Germans living closest to
the concentration camps at the time
of their liberation by U.S. troops
claim they were never aware of the
atrocities that occurred there. How
could one blame those fighting on the
battlefield for them.

It is true that about one in 50 of the
soldiers buried at Bitburg is a former
S.S. member. President Reagan,
however, has made frequent com-

ments to assure Americans and the
world that it is not this small minor-
ity he wishes to honor. But some con-
tinue to construe the visit as they
wish to construe it, not as the Presi-
dent has said it should be construed.
For the President to have refused
Chancellor Kohl’s request that he
accompany him to the cemetery
would have been to apply the concept
of collective guilt to the vast majority
of draftee soldiers buried there.

Let’s all try to listen to exactly
what the President says and under-
stand him. If we can not forgive and
forget the atrocities of World War II,
perhaps we can at least forgive those
who had the misfortune to be born in
the same country and same time as
Adolf Hitler.

Philip Skillman
Class of 1987

Rights came to the fore in the 1950:
when conservatives and liberals
alike realized that the U.S. was be
coming increasingly embarrassed
claiming to lead the ‘Free World’
while overtly perpetuating the rank
est forms of political and economic
discrimination. Such practices weré
reinforced by economic harassment
physical abuse and outright murder
or lynchings tacitly condoned or igi
nored by the business establishmen!
and major political parties.

The responsible leadership of this
country was not satisfied with a win
dow-dressing law. Statistical evi
dence of results is a common-sens¢
requirement if you really want tc
achieve fairness in the workplace.

The argument that AA is responsi:
ble for the loss in relative income
among untrained and poorly edu:
cated workers in recent years is
hardly to be taken seriously.

While Professor Dean is deepl;
concerned over the personal anguis!
and self-doubt suffered by black:
who have been given jobs under the
pressure of both equal employmen!
opportunity and affirmative actior
laws, my concern is for the manj
W&L students who have taken jobs ir
family businesses or who have beer
hired by firms in which their fathers
and mothers, uncles and aunts and
grandparents have substantial influ.
ence. These poor fellows can never
be sure whether they have received
these opportunities through family
affirmative action (FAA) or on their
own merit, and my heart goes out tc
them as they anguish over their fat
paychecks — all the way to the bank.

Todd Lowry
Professor of Economics
and Administration

Cockpit cooks
boiling over
Phi omission

To the Editors:

We are puzzled by a curious omis
sion in what otherwise is an excellen!
review of places to obtain hambur
gers in Lexington. It is especialls
curious because the place to which |
refer has ‘burgers that have beer
called ‘‘the best in town’’ — not by us
but by customers. It is even more
curious, considering that the report:
er had to pass us by in order to react
The Phi office. We refer, of course, tc
the W&L Cockpit.

So that the reading public may be
more fully informed as to the options
it has to obtain hamburgers in town,
we would like to set forth our night-
time prices and options. A one-third
pound hamburger, plain, comes with
pickle and potato chips; it costs $1.55,
A plain cheeseburger costs $1.65. Our
famous hamburger special, which
comes with lettuce, tomato, French
Fries, chips and a pickle, costs $2.25.
The cheeseburger special is priced at
$2.40.

We offer two slices of bacon extra
for 45 cents and, unlike some estab-
lishments mentioned in the review,
we will cook our hamburgers to
order. We also have four types of
cheese from which to choose: Ameri-
can, Swiss, Cheddar and Provolone.

Clearly our omission from the arti-
cle was not due to some cost conside-
ration, limiting the review to those
places which offer inexpensive
hamburgers. The cheapest hambur-
ger of one of the reviewed places is
far more expensive than a hambur-
ger we can imaginably produce.

We would like to invite members of
the W&L community to join us, the
next time they desire to eat a
hamburger.

Chris Brooks
Cockpit Manager
Class of 1985

Bill Cooper

Law Class of 1986
Jamie Auch
Class of 1986
~~ or _

- a ww

wwe oe ww

we

— oe & ore

«

 

 

‘China

 

Continued from Page 1

* students, including Ying, would work

“p? in the fields with the peasants during

the day and talk politics with each

* other in the evenings.

“‘We discussed the future of China
in Inner Mongolia,’’ she noted. How-

« ever, it would be those talks that
, eventually would get her into trouble.

Two boys who had overheard the

" student discussion group in Inner

Mongolia returned to Peking early
and were arrested for stealing came-
ras. In order to receive a lighter sen-
tence,they reported that the group in
Inner-Mongolia was discussing reac-

* tionary ideas. Three months later,

Ying traveled back to Peking to visit
her parents.

After about seven days in Peking,
she was arrested by the police and
charged with ‘‘discussing reac-
tionary ideas.”

From September to December of
1969, Ying was detained in a holding
center for less serious criminals. But
in December, she was interrogated a

, second time.

.

«

«

“T learned that some people in our
discussion group told the police that
we were discussing more than just
reactionary ideas,’’ she recalled.
“They said that we also wanted to
organize a secret political party to
overthrow the CCP central commit-
tee. All of these statements about
some secret party were nonsense.”

In December of 1969, Ying was

"charged with conspiring to over-

<

«

-

<

«

-

throw the government and was sent
to prison. She had never seen the in-
side of a courtroom. She had no idea
how long she would be forced to stay
in prison. She was totally cut off from
the rest of the world. She learned that
the other students in the Inner Mon-
golia group also had been arrested,
but she could not contact them be-
cause they had been sent to different

» centers. Moreover, she could not con-

«

*

tact her family.

“‘T could not contact anyone outside
the prison walls.’”’she remembered.
“I would often have the feeling that I
was forgotten....Sometimes I could
not identify myself.”

“In order to survive, I had to

, change my character. I could not de-

pend on my older norms, values and
morals. Everyone had to struggle
with each other for sleep, space and
food.”

Part of this struggle was knowing
who to trust in the wake of the accept-
ed practice of receiving a lighter sen-
tence by reporting on another’s
crimes.

“‘T had to make others think I was a
good person so they would not make
false accusations against me,” Ying
said.

“I had to control myself. I could not
open myself to others. I could not
trust others. This made me have a
strong character which let me sur-
vive.”

In prison Ying managed to avoid
physical torture, although she wit-
nessed many instances of it.

“The guards would force people in-
to [handcuff-type devices] for many
days. [It] was placed behind the per-
son so he could not sleep,’’ she said.

“They also used belts to tie one’s
hands, which would cut off the blood
supply. Some people would become
disabled because of this.”

Psychological torture proved to be
the most demanding for Ying. She
had no idea whether she would live or
be executed.

“There was no law,”’ she noted. ‘‘A
struggle or change in the central
committee could change your fu-
ture.”

“In prison, I remember thinking to
myself, ‘There is a truth to human
society, so if I can really know what
this truth is, than I have to push this
truth, but this can happen only if I
leave jail.’ ”

In 1972, Ying was released from
prison. She attributed this to leniency
on the part of the police, due to politi-
cal developments, particularly the
death of Lin Biao, the leader of the
People’s Liberation Army, who. was
very tough on suspected political
enemies of the CCP.

Ying spent the next four years in
Peking, where in 1977 she applied to
several universities, but was denied
admission because of her record as a
political prisoner. She was finally
accepted to a school, but was forced
to study a subject she had no interest
in. Later that year, her application to
go to Hong Kong was approved, and
she moved to the British colony to
join her relatives.

In Hong Kong, Ying wrote an arti-

 

Drugs

 

‘C) Continued from Page 1
Jarrard said the faculty voted

- separately on each of the approxi-
‘‘mately 20 recommendations in the
‘committee’s 30-page report. He said
» votes were by voice except in the

case of close votes, which were taken

‘by show of hands.

Jarrard said the closest vote was

» the defeat of a minority report by two
~ professors and Dean of Students
*. Lewis G. John that said ‘‘any judicial
“’body with full and final authority

<

over discipline in major offenses
should have faculty representatives

, inits membership.”

With that in mind, the three propos-

* ed a Joint Committee on Discipline
_ that would be composed of six stu-

*-

dents and six faculty members.
Jarrard said ‘‘there was quite a bit

. of concern’’ about Student Control
~~ having the last word on all offenses.

“The Student Control Committee will

» be much more important than in the

past, much more responsible,’’ he

"said. “I hope the students will take
+ that into account in making deci-

sions.”’
“If they make the kind of decisions
we would hope they would, everyone

_ Will be very pleased and want to con-

tinue with this plan,”’ he continued.

' “But if the decisions they make do
_ hot take into account the severity of

the cases, I feel quite sure the faculty

+ will want to move in the direction of
, another committee with faculty
members on it.”’

According to Jarrard, several fac-
ulty members said a new procedure
for Student Control elections should
be considered. The 13-member com-
mittee now is made up of class
presidents and vice presidents.

Jarrard said the committee should
be composed of ‘‘not necessarily the
most popular students on campus,
but students who are willing to make
objective and fair decisions.”

“We hope there’ll be some discus-
sion,” Jarrard said, “I hope the stu-
dent body will look into the possibility
of special elections for the Student
Control Committee.”’

Jarrard said the process of discuss-
ing the report for the last six weeks
has been valuable for the faculty be-
cause ‘‘they’ve had a lot of input”’
and it “brought them closer to the
whole process of discipline.”

“There were some points of honest
disagreement, as you always find
among individuals with different
views,” he said, noting, however,
that there was ‘‘generally a surpris-
ing amount of agreement.”

Jarrard said that despite the occa-
sional liveliness of the exchange of
views, he doesn’t think it will have
“any permanent effect on relation-
ships” among faculty members.

“Most academicians are known for
expressing very strongly opinions
and attitudes that they hold,”’ he ex-
plained. ‘‘Being in a profession
where verbal skills are used all the
time, you can see why they express
themselves very forcefully, and that
was done here.

“‘But they accept the other person’s
right to express a point of view, even
if they don’t agree.”’

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

Mon.,-Sat, 9-12

New!
We Now Have

Nachos

Hot Dogs

Popcorn

East Lex takes checks

FOR RENT

Secured Storage
SPACE
Reasonable Rates
Call 463-3521

or

Come By

 

Pres Brown’s, Inc.

115 West Nelson Street
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

cle for Cheng Ming magazine and
later earned a job as a foreign corre-
spondent for the magazine. She was
assigned to cover the latest political
developments in China.

“All this time, I went from Hong
Kong to Peking interviewing high-
ranking officals,’’ she noted.

In 1978, a democratic movement
started in China. Known as “Peking
Spring,” it would later be crushed by
Deng Xiaoping.

“‘T think our magazine was impor-
tant for this democratic movement.
It made the Peking government hate
our magazine very much,” Ying
said.

Since 1979, Ying has covered such
areas as Indochina, Korea, Japan
and Europe, for the Cheng Ming
magazine.

In 1983, she decitied to quit her job
with Cheng Ming and go to The Chi-
nese University of Hong Kong. ‘‘With
my job, I realized that my knowledge
about different subjects was some-
what limited. I wanted to improve
myself,’ Ying explained.

At the university, Ying decided to
come to America because, as she
Says, ‘I wanted to view the world
from a different cultural point of
view.”

American culture is not terribly
unlike that of Hong Kong, Ying
said.” I was first exposed to Ameri-
can culture in Hong Kong mainly
through films and magazines,’’ she
added.

Ying plans to continue her educa-
tion in the United States.

At Washington and Lee, Ying can
easily be classified as the ideal liber-
al arts student. Her interests are not
limited, ranging from the natural
sciences to the social sciences. “I
believe that to be successful one must
have some knowledge in all fields,”
she said.

Crash

O Continued from Page 1

wise, to attend a Virginia Alcohol
Safety Action Program (VASAP) in
Rockbridge County this fall.

A letter signed by Hunter’s parents
and addressed to Commonwealth’s
Attorney Beverly C. ‘‘John’” Read
was entered into the court record.

“It is our hope and prayer that no
further charges will be filed in Ed’s
case,” the handwritten note said.
“He has suffered enough already.”

“He was a close friend of our son,
who I am sure had a BAC higher than
his and was driving him back to town
at his (our son’s) request,”’ the letter
continued. ‘‘Any consideration that
can be given to our feelings will be
greatly and deeply appreciated.”

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 16, 1985, Page 3

BORDEN
COMMONS

Lexington's First Condominium Community

          

eon ee 78 a — Py io. (defeat ¢

Phase I = Nearly a Sell Out!

Only three months ago, Borden Commons was presented to the
Lexington community. And thanks to the favorable public response . . .
a key location . . . and a design to complement its historic setting, our
success has been overwhelming. Only a few units remain to be sold in
Borden Commons — Phase 1.

Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condo-
minium living? A wide variety of floor plans with a selection of interior
layouts are still available.

Borden Commons, Lexington’s first condominium community . . .
to be in the perfect place, now is the perfect time. You'd better act now!

Borden Commons Condominium
Baker Real Estate
Post Office Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Office — (703) 463-7319
Tom Baker — (703) 463-2510 - evenings
Dick Emrey — (703) 463-4362 - evenings

 

 

 

 

PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM
FORD MOTOR CREDIT COMPANY PLUS A
S400 PURCHASE ALLOWANCE FROM FORD

Who Qualifies?

The three conditions you must meet to qualify for

credit are:

e You must have verifiable employment that begins
within #20 days of your vehicle purchase at a salary
sufficient to cover ordinary living expenses and your

payment.

vehicle

e You must have proof that you have graduated or will
and be awarded at least a bachelor's

graduate
degree within 120 days.

A $400 Allowance.

If you qualify you'll receive a college graduate pur-
chase allowance of $400 when buying an eligible
vehicle from a participating Dealer This $400 allowance
may be utilized as a down payment, or a reimburse-
ment check will be mailed directly to you from Ford.

e Your credit record, if you have one, must indicate

payment made as agreed.
Vehicles Inciuded in the Plan.
You may choose a new 1985 Thunderbird,
LTD, Tempo, Mustang, Escort, Bronco I! or
light trucks up to F-250, Marquis, Cougar,

Topaz and Lynx.

Ford Motor
Credit

[FORO

Company

 

 

Courtesy Ford/Mercury

2019 Forest Ave.

Buena Vista

1916 261-2112/2113

Dealer No.
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 16, 1985

W&L sees demand for more campus housing

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
Staff Reporter

 

Nearly 150 years ago, when Washington College
students were still expected to retire by 9 p.m. and rise
at 5 a.m. fora roll call and prayer, the school abolished
the boarding of students. Many of them then chose to live
in town, where, according to one current administrator,
they benefited from Lexington’s genteel society.

On the eve of coedcuation, Washington and Lee of-
ficials, responding to surveys, studies and what they call
plain old “horseback guessing,” are doing what they can
to have a new dormitory ready for the fall of 1987.

By the early 1990s, the University will have 1,500
undergraduates, 150 more than the present level, ac-
cording to Frank A. Parsons, assistant to the University
president.

In addition to that slight growth, Parsons and Univer-
sity officials anticipate a continued desire among stu-
dents in general to choose on-campus housing. They also
expect that women will prefer to live on campus.

The 240-bed dorm on West Nelson street will be design-
ed for upperclassmen and will offer a basic living unit
for four students.

Each suite will have a small living area and its own
bathroom, while every sixth or seventh suite will have
additional common areas, including a small kitchen,
laundry facilities and storage space.

Other features planned for the building include televi-
sion lounges, a main lobby, exercise and game rooms,
and possibly a computer terminal area.

Parsons said architects are currently at work on plans
for the horseshoe-shaped structure, which will be
designed to resemble house fronts.

With no requirement that upperclassmen live on cam-
pus, the University will have to make the dorm attrac-
tive to students, Parsons said.

“We're competing with the private market,”’ he said.
“We have to offer a good bit more than either the reality
or the perception of the freedom of off-campus housing.”’

Parsons noted, though, that achieving that goal ‘‘may
be more expensive than we can afford”’ and said that the
plans, therefore, may need to be “‘fine-tuned.”’

University Treasurer E. Stewart Epley said W&L will
likely borrow $6.5 million to construct the dormitory.

The Industrial Development Authority of Rockbridge
County will meet Wednesday to consider the Universi-
ty’s request to issue $7 million in industrial revenue
bonds to raise funds for the construction.

The IDA sells its own bonds at the request of in-
dustries, banks and organizations such as W&L, and of-
fers tax-exempt interest to the bonds’ buyers. The IDA
then lends the proceeds at nine or 10 percent interest,
Epley explained

The University could issue its own bonds, Epley said,
but the interest would be taxable for buyers, and the
University would be, in effect, paying 12 to 13 percent for

 

Contact holds

 

-writer’s talk
‘on terrorism

The author of several best-selling
novels of political intrigue will dis-
cuss international terrorism during a
lecture Tuesday in Lee Chapel.

Robert Moss, a recognized authori-
ty on espionage and terrorism, will
be speaking as part of the Contact ’85
symposium.

He was a senior foreign policy lead
writer for The Economist and cover-
ed wars and revolutions in Indochina,
Africa, the Middle East, Latin Amer-
ica and Portugal.

During congressional testimony in
June 1981, Moss was the first to re-
veal the Bulgarian involvement in
the attempt that year to assassinate
Pope John Paul II.

Moss’ first novel, ‘‘The Spike,”
dealt with the KGB’s manipulation of
the press and the Soviet policy of
“disinformation.’’ He also was co-au-
thor of ‘‘Monimbo,”’ about Third
World Terrorism in the United

 

By JIM STRADER

| Staff Reporter

 

A Florida man pleaded guilty

' yesterday to five counts of conspiring

with a former Washington and Lee
,Student to distribute cocaine in
Lexington.
The former W&L student was iden-
tified by Commonwealth’s Attorney
' Beverly C. ‘“John’’ Read during the
‘ trial only as an ‘‘anonymous infor-
‘ mant who was then a student at
- Washington and Lee University.”’
David Dodich, 23, of Tallahassee
was convicted in Rockbridge County
. Circuit Court on charges stemming
' from five separate incidents in the
' fall of 1982. Dodich was then a stu-
: dent at Florida State University.
‘ Dodich was not sentenced yester-
' day, but a plea agreement signed by
’ him, Read and Paul M. Penick, one
| of Dodich’s attorneys, was ‘‘condi-
' tionally accepted’’ by Circuit Judge
: George E. Honts III. Honts’ condition
was that Dodich’s other attorney, E.
: Ross Zimmerman of Florida, sign
, the agreement.
Penick said Zimmerman was de-
. tained in Florida by a jury trial and
would not be able to come to Lexing-

 

 

ROBERT MOSS

States, and wrote ‘‘Death Beam,”
which depicted the space weapons
race between the Americans and the
Soviet Union. =

His newest novel, ‘‘Mosoow
Rules,” is about the disaffection-of a
Red Army officer, the result of cor-
ruption in the Soviet Union and the
officer’s dream of a coup d'etat.

Man guilty of drug sale
to informant from W&L

ton until June 19. Honts set a court
date for Dodich at that time.

Read submitted as evidence testi-
mony from the informant that from
September through early November
1982, Dodich and the informant
agreed upon the sale of approximate-
ly six ounces of cocaine to be sent
from Tallahassee to Lexington. The
cocaine was shipped via Federal Ex-
press and Greyhound Bus Lines.

Read said the informant submitted
five cashiers checks he had sent to
Dodich in exchange for the cocaine.
The checks were drawn on an ac-
count at the First National Exchange
Bank of Virginia (now Dominion
Bank) and were returned to the infor-
mant after Dodich had endorsed
them. The checks totaled $13,150.

Read added that a sample of the co-
caine was analyzed and was found to
be ‘‘33 percent pure”’ and would bring
a resale price of about $100 a gram.

The charges carry a maximum
penalty of 40 years each. In the plea
agreement, Read recommended a
sentence of nine years on each count,
to be served concurrently. Read ad-
ded that Dodich was uncooperative
with law enforcement authorities ‘‘in
relation to the source of the cocaine.”’

Wells, Tech honor Wilson

 

From Staff Reports

 

Two of his former employers have
honored University President John
D. Wilson with a $1 million endowed
chair and a $1,000 essay contest.

Wells College has established the

‘ endowed chair in honor of Wilson,
: who was president of the all-female
school from 1968 to 1975. Wilson
traveled to the school, in Aurora,
N.Y., May 3 for an honors convoca-
tion and celebration of the endowed
chairs. a

 

By BILL MARTIEN
Staff Reporter

 

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sut-
ton and two Alcohol Beverage
Control Board agents outlined
some of their feelings regarding
alcohol at parties during a meet-
ing with fraternity presidents
Tuesday night.

The ABC agents stressed the
fact that they don’t want to find
high school students or college
students under the legal age (19
until July) drinking alcohol at
fraternities.

‘‘We have pressure from the cit-
izens of Virginia to control exces-

Reet Rt mn

 

a il mens omen ont

niet i

Frances Tarlton ‘Sissy’ Faren-
thold, who was Wells’ first woman
president, from 1976 to 1980, also was
honored by anendowed chair. _

The Mu Chapter of Phi Beta Kap-
pa, the honory scholastic fraternity,
at Virginia Polytechnic Institute this
week announced the winner of its sec-
ond annual John D. Wilson Essay
Contest.

Wilson became academic vice
president and university provost at
Virginia Tech in 1975 and executive
vice president and university provost
in 1981, before being selected as
Washington and Lee’s president.

sive drinking, especially by mi-
nors,”’ one of the agents said.

Asked about the policy when
partygoers bring their own alco-
hol, the agents said that students
still need to be carded, even if the
party is bring-your-own, a propo-
sal currently being considered for
Wednesday night parties.

“If you use your common sense,
you will come out OK,”’ the agent
said.

Sutton defined his overall policy
toward the fraternities as ‘‘co-
operation, not confrontation.”

“It is a two-way street, not one-
way,” he added. “‘I will use con-
frontation if I have to.’’

Sutton said each fraternity will

 

From Staff Reports

 

Plans for a revamped freshman
orientation program emphasizing
tradition and involvement were dis-
cussed Friday with the Alumni
Association Board of Directors.

Alumni Director Richard B. Ses-
soms said a committee of the board
talked for an hour with Dean of
Students Lewis G. John and Dean of
Freshmen H. Robert Huntley about
the possibilities for the freshmen’s
first week.

The board met in Lexington during
Alumni Weekend, which included re-
unions for 10 classes ranging from
1935 to 1980.

Sessoms said freshman orientation
this fall will ‘“reemphasize our his-
tory and heritage — the civility, the
speaking tradition and, of course, the
Honor System.”

“That’s what the alumni want to be,
assured about with this particularly
critical freshman orientation,” he
said.

“We're going to reintroduce some
of the things that in my view have
sort of slipped between the cracks,”’
Sessoms said.

“If you don’t teach the freshmen
the words to ‘The W&L Swing’ during
orientation, pray tell when do you
teach them?” he said. ‘I think the
impression you gain in the first days
and weeks of college stay with you.”

“The key is finding a way to do this
that’s appropriate in the mid-1980s,”’
he said. ‘‘I’m not suggesting a return
to bonfires, beanies and the Assimila-
tion Committee, but trying to engen-

*

the money.

Epley pointed out that over 25 years, three or four
percentage points could add up to huge savings for the
University.

Another option for W&L, according to Epley, is the
Virginia College Building Authority, a state rather than
county organization that issues bonds on terms similar
to those of the IDA.

He said W&L has worked with that organization three
times in the past — in 1975 for the construction of Woods
Creek Apartments and for the renovation of the Univer-
sity power plant, in 1979 for the financing of the Com-
merce School renovation and to expand Evans Dining
Hall and its kitchen, and last year to refinance the
University library.

The University spent $240,000 last month to acquire the
property at the intersection of Nelson and Washington
streets, the present location of the Wometco Inc., a Coca-
Cola bottling company, and for the adjacent property at
223 W. Nelson St. known as the Ackerly home.

“The assessed value of the Coca-Cola plant is pretty
close to what would have been a fair price,’’ Parsons
said. He said the same was true for the Ackerly proper-
ty.

Five years ago, the Roanoke-based parent of the
Wometco distributing facility offered to trade the pro-
perty to the University in return for a new site in the
Lexington area, Parsons said. He said the deal offered
attractive tax benefits for Wometco.

The Board of Trustees approved the plan and allotted
$175,000 for the University to set up the distributor in
another location.

Parsons said he is unsure why Wometco did not follow
through on the offer, but said it is no longer a possibility

As owner of the proposed dormitory’s location, the
University must now convince the city of Lexington that
the development plans are acceptable.

W&L has received initial setbacks in its request for a
new institutional zone based on a model used in Rich-
mond. The school is required to submit a master plan of
all its development aspirations that must be approved
by the Lexington Planning Commission and the council.

The master plan is being prepared by GWSM Inc., a
Pittsburgh architecture and landscaping firm the Uni-
versity has dealt with for 17 years, Parsons said.

The plan, which is expected to be completed by next’
Thursday, includes the new dormitory, a proposed)
theater at the site of Lexington’s old train station, addi-
tional athletic practice fields, plans to move the admiss- °
ions staff next to the Alumni House and development of- -
ficials to Washington Hall, the Morris House renovation
and parking considerations. :

Parsons said the University hopes the Planning Com-
mission will approve the master plan by mid-June and
hopes the City Council will accept it by early July or '
August. He said the goal is to begin construction by
December or January.

Fall orientation to stress W&L heritage

der pride in the University for its own
sake.”

“If the men and women of the
freshman class come to a tailgate
party at the first football game with
undergraduates and law students
and a band playing ‘The Swing,’
they'll think that’s the way it’s al-
ways been at Washington and Lee,”’
Sessoms continued.

“If you’re here and you’re a fresh-
man and you walk across the foot-
bridge and you see the University
coming together in support of each
other and a major athletic team, it
becomes ‘not cool’ to come late and
leave early.”’

“If the experience of the first coed-
ucational class — both men and wo-
men — is uniformly good, that will be
the best thing that could happen to
the admissions program of Washing-
ton and Lee University,’ Sessoms
said. ‘‘On the other hand, if that ex-
perience is bad, it won’t take long for
the whole world to hear that.’’

‘“‘All of it starts with orientation
week,” he said.

Other highlights of Alumni Week-
end:

The board received a report from
Admissions Director William M.
Hartog III that Sessoms said shows
“there is mounting evidence’ that
the coeducation transition will be a
successful one. “To Bill Hartog’s
everlasting credit, no one is declar-
ing victory yet,” he said. ‘“‘To quote
him, ‘We’ve only cleared the first
hurdle.’ ”’

eA panel chaired by Associate
Dean of the College Pamela H. Simp-
son discussed ‘‘Women at Washing-

ton and Lee: Past, Present and Fu-
ture’ with what Sessoms described
as a standing-room-only crowd in
Northen Auditorium. ‘Everybody
came away from that feeling awfully
good,” he said. ‘“The panel revealed
the depth of the Coeducation Steering
Committee’s work.”’

eThe Alumni Board received re-
ports from student body President
Cole Dawson and his successor, John
Lewis, and Lewis addressed the ban-
quet of the 25th reunion class (1960)
at Natural Bridge Hotel.

eSessoms said his Saturday ad-
dress to the Alumni Association dealt
primarily with Kathekon, the student
alumni association formed this year.
“Students, after all, are alumni in
residence,” his speech text said.
“The analogy is that of a baseball
farm team. I avoid bragging on
them, but I will allow that our rookies
can field, and they hit for distance.”’

eThe Alumni Board, according to
Sessoms, is becoming ‘‘a more acti- |
vist” rather than simply an advisory

_ body. “The emphasis has been to no-
minate and elect alumni who have
been active as chapter presidents,
class agents for the Annual Fund and
Alumni Admissions Program repre-
sentatives so they bring to the board
true experience,’’ he said. After ad-
ding the members elected this week-
end, the board will have 19 members,
and it will grow to 20 after next year’s
elections, Sessoms added.

The fathers of three W&L under-
graduates were among the alumni
named to four-year terms on the
Alumni Board — Wayne D. McGrew
Jr. (52), father of sophomore Mac

Police seize gun, % ounce

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Details of the arrest early last
Wednesday of senior David L. Per-
due on a marijuana possession
charge were released yesterday by
Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton.

Perdue, a European history major
from Atlanta, is the outgoing Inter-
fraternity Council president.

Officer G.P. Joines found approx-
imately one quarter of an ounce of
marijuana in a plastic bag in the
glove compartment of Perdue’s car,
according to the arrest report.

Perdue was arrested after Joines
confiscated an 8mm Mauser rifle

from the car, the report stated. The
gun was later returned.

Attached to an air conditioning
vent were two hemostats, clamplike
devices that can be used in mari-
juana smoking, Joines said. The
clamps contained marijuana resi-
due, according to the report.

Perdue’s car was stopped after
Joines observed it traveling at a high
rate of speed on East Washington
Street and after the tires screeched
at the corner of Washington Street
and Lee Avenue.

Perdue passed a field sobriety test,
the report said. A court date has been
set for June 4, two days before grad-
uation.

In other police news this week:

eAssociate Dean of the College

Former policeman convicted

 

From Staff Reports

 

A former Lexington police officer
was sentenced to 12 months in jail,
with 11 months suspended, yesterday
after he was found guilty of an as-
sault and battery while on duty.

The former officer, Richard H.
Rice, was appealing a March convic-
tion in Juvenile and Domestic Rela-
tions Court, and his attorney, Marc J.
Small of Roanoke, said he would ap-
peal yesterday’s conviction in Rock-
bridge Circuit Court.

Rice was fired by Police Chief L.O.
Sutton after the March conviction.

BOR URE CR A EE OE aE SS PS AIST PE DST A LE OR EET I

ABC, police want frat parties controlled

be receiving a list of procedures
as to how officers should act when
investigating a house. “If one of
my officers doesn’t follow these
procedures, let me know,”’ he ad-
ded.

Sutton’s main emphasis on the
procedures was that if fraternity
members are “brassy” with him
or his officers, the house may be
punished.

Sutton also said that if sound
equipment is confiscated at a par-
ty, the police will hold it until the
court date. A fraternity found
guilty of a misdemeanor charge
could be fined up to $1,000 and its
president or vice president could
spend up to 12 months in jail.

 

Rice is accused of assault and bat-
tery in connection with a New Year’s
Eve incident in which a 17-year-old
Lexington youth said he was hit twice
by Rice — once while handcuffed in-
side a police car and later while
awaiting treatment at Stonewall
Jackson Memorial Hospital.

Honor

C Continued from Page 1

ing” to the transcripts was opposed
by Crutchfield, Secretary Sam Dal-
ton and senior representative Dave
Jonson. Sophomore representatives
Andrew Caruthers and Shayam
Menon abstained.

Much of the debate about this pro-
posal centered on whether to add this
statement to the transcript of a stu-
dent who withdraws before his closed
hearing.

Dawson originally said he felt that
differentiating between guilty stu-
dents and those who withdraw early
could create preblems.

“We're encouraging him to leave
before the closed hearing,’’ Dawson
said.

Hayden and Dalton said this new
proposal added an unneeded moral
judgment to the Honor System.

“T don’t think it’s reasonable to
brand him as guilty just because he
left,’”’ Hayden said.

“We shouldn’t impose our concept
of honor on a society whose concept is

 

Pamela H. Simpson reported that a
35mm Ricoh camera valued at $178
was stolen from her unlocked Wash-
ington Hall office this weekend. Also
missing from Simpson’s office were
two bags of candy and two cabinet
keys, according to the report, which
noted that Simpson wishes to pro-
secute.

eJunior Jamie Berger’s bicycle
was reported taken from Evans Din-
ing Hall sometime this weekend. The
Murray 10-speed men’s bicycle was
left unlocked overnight.

eA sophomore who lost his wallet
earlier this year reported this week
that his AT&T Calling Card has been
used to make calls without his know-
ledge. Dave Shugart, a resident of
the Lampost, reported that he lost his
wallet on Feb. 10. He has since can-
celled the missing credit cards. The
police report stated that illegal calls
were made from Feb. 10 to April 30.

eA Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege exchange student from Ger-
many had her purse taken from the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon house while at-
tending a Wednesday night party.
The purse, which belonged to Ute
Heep, was later reported found with
all of its contents except $4 in cash.

much different from ours,’’ Dalton
added. “

Crutchfield said he opposed any
notation. ‘I think an honor matter
should be strictly private within the
University,” he said.

“I don’t think we should punish
someone for going open,’’ he con-
tinued. ‘‘I don’t think the purpose of
the Honor System is to punish any-
body.”

The question of whether to apply
the new policy to both open and clos-
ed hearings or to differentiate be-
tween the two also elicited consider-
able debate.

Dawson said applying the new poli-
cy only to those found guilty in open
hearings would discourage people
from exercising their right to an ap-
peal.
“T think this flies in the face of the
idea of the appeal,’’ Dawson said.

The use of the word “‘expelled”’ in
regard to open hearings was remov-
ed from the final notation.

Earles was in favor of extracting
the word.

‘“*You’re employing a second sanc-
tion on a person for exercising a
right,” he said.

Barles said this double standard

McGrew; Thomas P. O’Brien Jr.
(’58, ’60L), father of freshman Tom —
O’Brien; and Chester T. Smith (’53),
father of senior Taber Smith. Also
elected to four-year terms were Dan-
iel T. Balfour (’63, ’65L), whose
daughter, Amy Balfour, has enrolled
in next year’s freshman class, and C. »

Howard Capito (’68) of Greeneville, »

Tenn. Named to a two-year term was ,
Lat W. Purser III of Charlotte, N.C.

eA board committee received a re-
port on plans for the alumni directory
to be published next spring. For the
first time, the book will be produced
by an outside firm rather than by the
University. Sessoms said that under
the new arrangement, the cost of the

publication will be borne by the »
alumni, who will likely pay between _

$35 and $45 for a softbound edition.

Alumni to sponsor
Senior Night Wed.

The Alumni Association-sponsored
Senior Night will be held Wednesday
beginning at 6 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Dean of Students Lewis G. John

‘

;

will address the seniors, and the ©

Gilliam Award, the Pusey Award and
The Ring-tum Phi Awards will be
presented during the program.

Afterward, the seniors will assem-
ble behind the Alumni House for a
cookout. Entertainment will be pro-
vided by Wildgrass.

Seniors are requested to wee
coats and ties.

In case of rain, the event will begin

;

7

‘

a half hour later, at 6:30, and the din- ;

ner will be in Evans Dining Hall.

in arrest

Also in the purse were a MasterCard, .

international and German driver’s
licenses, a passport, makeup and ac-
cessories. '

eTwo Mary Baldwin College stu-
dents had various articles taken from

'

their car Friday when it was parked ‘

on North Randolph Street. Karen
Ann Sisko, 19, and Jeanine Water-

field, 21, were visiting friends when '

Waterfield’s blue 1976 Camaro was
entered. Sisko reported as missing:

$10 in cash, a leather purse, a check- |
book, credit cards, a Mary Baldwin :
identification card, a Gucci key chain |

and keys. The possessions were

valued at $167. Waterfield reported «
$15 cash and a gold key chain miss- ‘

ing.

eFreshman William DuBose had
the left rear window of his 1984
Volkswagen Rabbit shattered by a
shot from a BB gun. The car was
parked in front of Graham-Lees Dor-
mitory on Sunday when the offense
occurred. The damage was esti-
mated at $900.

eJunior Craig Chambers had two
Texas license plates taken from his
1980 AMC Jeep while it was parked in
front of the Kappa Alpha house.

 

could be the basis of future litigation.

“T think you really need to look at
the possibility that someday, some-
one is going to decide to take this
whole thing to court,” Earles said.
“Tl bet you a dime that someday
you're going to be challenged.”

“T’ll bet you’re right,’’ Dawson
responded.

“You've got to have a fair system if
you get challenged,” Earles added.

The EC also voted on the following
revisions:

¢ A proposal for the EC to allow the
member of the Student Body appoint-
ed to the position of Executive Com-
mittee Advocate to sit in on all Honor
System hearings failed 1-8 with
Crutchfield voting in favor.

*A proposal to change the ‘‘Section
O” confidentiality clause to set up
specific penalties for violations of
confidentiality passed 8-1.

eTwo revisions were passed that
give the accused at least 48 hours,
rather than 24, between the time he is
charged and his closed hearing and
between a guilty verdict in a closed
hearing and his informing the EC
president that he wishes to appeal to
an open hearing,

;

~
SPORTS

Novice tennis
-—68th in nation

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

Making their first appearance ever
in the team competition of the NCAA
Division 111 Tennis Championships,
the Generals finished the three-day
tournament in eighth place.

Washington and Lee lost all three
of its matches in the event. The losses
were all to teams ranked higher than
the Generals.

The last-place finish in the eight-
team event was termed a
“disappointment” by team mem-
bers. However, the players were also
quick to point out the positive aspects
of the team’s play in the tournament.

Referring to the team’s many
strong performances in the competi-
tion, senior captain Andy Haring
said, ‘‘We showed that we deserved
to be here.”’

In their first match, a 6-3 loss to
eventual national champion Swarth-
more, the Generals had several
strong showings. No. 3 Jack Messerly
was in complete control in his match.
He baffled his foe, Eric Prothero, one
minute hitting topspin lobs to the
baseline and the next laying down
drop shots within a few feet of the
net.

In doubles, Messerly.and partner
David McLeod, who pushed the na-
tion’s No. 1 player Jeff Krieger to a
second-set tiebreaker, were impress-
ive in their upset of the nation’s No. 2
doubles team of Kreiger-Shep David-
son in three sets, 6-4, 3-6, 6-4.

At No. 3 doubles, Andy Haring and
Chris Wiman also won, defeating
their opponents 6-3, 2-6, 7-5.

Tuesday’s consolation semifinal
against Claremont-Mudd-Scripps
was a Classic example of excitement
in team tennis.

After singles, W&L had the edge in
the match, leading by a 4-2 margin.
The match was in no way over as the
Stags claimed victories at Nos. 1 and
3 doubles to set the stage for the
decisive match at No. 2 doubles.

W&L’s team of Roby Mize and
Scott Adams lost the first nine games
of the match, but they got back in
gear and won five of the next six
games to lead 5-4 in the second set
with the Stags serving. Tension
mounted for players and spectators
alike as Claremont held serve to knot
the match at five games all.

With each point seeming as long as
and as crucial as an individual game,
W&L came within a game of winning
the set at 6-5.

The set was destined for a tie-
breaker, and Claremont, which had
won two tiebreakers in the singles
competition added a third to its day’s
work. This last breaker went to the
Stags 7-4 to give them the match 5-4.

Yesterday, the Generals went
against Gustavus Adolphus, losing
6-3.

Though the team members had
individual regrets about various
aspects of their matches, there was a
general feeling that the team’s lack
of familiarity with the kind of con-
sistently high level of play at na-
tionals was a drawback to their ef-
forts.

“Experience was the difference.
We didn’t win the big points,’’ Adams
said. Indeed, six of the seven other

The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

W&L freshman No. 1 David McLeod lunges for a forehand volley in action

from Tuesday’s W&L-Claremont match.

teams competing had been to nation-
als before, and the only other first-
timer, Carleton, had matches in the
regular season against four of the top
eight teams.

The future looks bright for the
Generals, the players said. As Mize
indicated, ‘‘Next year is The Promis-
ed Land. We have five returning
starters and several good recruits.”

But 1985 is not yet over for some of
the Generals. McLeod, Mize, Messer-
ly and Haring began singles competi-
tion today, and the doubles teams of
Messerly-McLeod, Mize-Adams and
Haring-Wiman will begin play this
afternoon.

 

 

The schedule

Friday, May 17
9 a.m.—3rd Round Singles (Round
of 16)
1 p.m.—Quarterfinals Singles
4p.m.—2nd Round Doubles
(Round of 16)

Saturday, May 18
10 a.m:—Semifinals Singles
i p.m.—Quarterfinals Singles
4 p.m.—Semifinals Doubles
Sunday, May 19
i p.m.—Finals Singles
Finals Doubles

 

 

May 16, 1985

Page 5

 

 

Swarthmore takes title

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

Swarthmore won the team com-
petition at the NCAA Division III
National Championships last
night with a 5-4 win over Kalama-
zoo. Although the match began at
the outdoor site on the Washington
and Lee campus, the teams finish-
ed play at the Staunton Indoor
Racket Club when rain forced the
suspension of the match.

After the completion of the sin-
gles competition, the two teams
were tied at 3-3. Swarthmore pick-
ed up wins at singles numbers
two, four and six. The Little
Quakers then won two of the three
doubles matches to capture the
Division III national title.

After Kalamazoo won the num-
ber one doubles and Swarthmore,
won the number three doubles, the
match remained tied at 4-4 with

the number two doubles flight still
on the court. Swarthmore came
from behind to win that match ina
third-set tiebreaker.

Swarthmore, the tournament’s
number-two seed, advanced to the
championship round with a 6-3
first-round victory over W&L and
a 6-3 semifinal win over third-
seeded St. Thomas.

Kalamazoo, the tournament’s
number-one seed, reached the
finals by defeating Carleton 7-2 in
the first round and fourth-seeded
Redlands 5-4 in the semis.

Redlands won third place in the
team competition with a 5-1 win
over St. Thomas. The match was
stopped after Redlands clinched
its fifth victory in singles so that
the two teams could watch the
championship match.

Individual competition started

today and will continue through
Sunday.

 

 

Fast times not fast enough

 

From Staff Reports

 

Four Washington and Lee track
team members failed to qualify for
the NCAA Division III National
Track and Field Championships last
weekend at the University of Virginia
Invitational Track Meet.

Commenting on the individual per-
formances last weekend, head track
coach Norris Aldridge said: ‘‘Every-
one did well but not well enough to
qualify.”’

Although he ran his second fastest
time of the year, freshman Andy
White failed to qualify in the 110-

meter hurdles with his time of 15.2
seconds, In the shotput, Tim Murray
had his best throw since he has been
at W&L with a distance of 47’ 1/2”.
Junior Jim McLaughlin won the jave-
lin throw.

Senior Mark Pembroke set a new
school record in the 800 meters with
his time of 1:53.1, but failed to make
the qualifying time of 1:52.3. The pre-
vious W&L record in the 800 was
1:53.3.

Pembroke tried once more to quali-
fy on Wednesday at a qualifying meet
in Frostburg, Maryland.

Stickmen Se gee |

bounced
by UMBC

By MIKE STACHURA

 

Sports Editor

 

Like the weather on Saturday, the
Washington and Lee lacrosse team
threatened to make things unplea-
sant for the University of Maryland-
Baltimore County, but in the end it
was the sunshine and the Retrievers
prevailing, 9-6.

The Alumni Weekend crowd saw
W&L take the lead in the first quar-
ter, fall behind in the second, come
back in the third, but lose the game in
the fourth quarter when UMBC
scored the game’s final two goals.
The Retrievers’ defense held the
Generals scoreless for the last 21
minutes of play.

“We were unable to control the
tempo after the early part of the
game,” said W&L head coach Dennis
Daly.

Retrievers’ head coach Dick Watts
said his team was riding a high after
beating Division I top tenner Mary-
land the weekend before, 15-14 in
overtime.

‘“‘Anytime you have a game like we
had last week [against Maryland], it
has to build confidence. Our guys are
saying, ‘Hey, wecan play,’ ’’ he said.

The Generals did take the lead ear-
ly, though. Goals from attackmen
Keith Scott and G.T. Corrigan, who
scored on a behind-the-back shot, put
W&L on top 2-0 with 9:21 to play in the
first period.

However, UMBC surged back to
score the next four goals, two ooming
on man-up situations. Daly said the
man-ups took the Generals out of
their zone defense, which had been
successful early, and led to some in-
side scores. Three of the four tallies
came from right in front of W&L net-
minder John DiDuro.

W&L came back to tie up things
midway into the second quarter.
Sophomore attackman Steve Giacob-
be got a feed in front from junior
Caulley Deringer, and senior Rod
Santomassimo took advantage of a
man-up situation for the Generals’
third and fourth scores.

UMBC closed out the first half with
three goals, two scored from junior
attackman Jeff Flaig, who finished
the day leading all scorers with three
goals and three assists.

In the second half, the Ger ‘als

 

 

 

W&L defenseman Steve McGrath puts the stick to
UMBC attackman Mark Malczewski as the Retriever

came out firing and cut the Retrie-
vers’ margin to one by the 6:41 mark
of the third quarter.

“T think we were upset with the
first half,’’ Daly said

Senior Mark Knobloch scored first
from long range. Then, Corrigan ad-
ded his second tally after UMBC
goalie Dan Schaffer was sent off to
serve a penalty after he shoved W&L
attackman Bill Holmes to the ground
during a dead-ball situation.

But Schaffer replaced his backup
David Miller immediately. He and
his teammates then proceeded to
shut down the W&L offense.

“In a sense, their defense was able
to contain us,’”’ Daly said, ‘‘but we

couldn’t maintain the tempo of the
game.”’

The Retrievers added two insur-
ance goals to close out the scoring,
the last coming just 12 seconds before
the end of the game.

UMBC head coach Dick Watts
cited the play of his defense as key to
the win, noting especially the play of
sophomore defensemen Jim Bime-
steffer and Tom Boyce.

“Our six long sticks did an excel-
lent job,” he said.

Leading W&L (3-8) on the day were
Corrigan’s two goals and Deringer’s
two assists. Once again DiDuro was
magnificent in goal, compiling 17
saves during his busy afternoon. Da-

ao. os = ae
By Sean Connolly/The Ring-tum Phi

looks to turn upfield. UMBC handed the Generals their
eighth loss on Saturday.

ly acknowledged the  senior’s
superior play throughout the season.

“The goalie is in a position where
he has the responsibility of being the
last line of defense. This year, John
DiDuro has handled that responsibili-
ty with aplomb,”’ Daly said.

The Generals’ mentor said the
game was closer than the 9-6 score
might indicate, noting that there
were a number of errors that could
have ended up going in the Generals’
favor.

“It was just that type of game. It
wasn’t particularly bad,”’ he said
“They took better advantage of our
mistakes than we took of their mis-
takes.’”’

 

 

No excuse

....Ninety-five percent of you out
there should be ashamed of your-
selves. And that’s putting it as nicely
as it can be put.

Fan support at Washington and
Lee sporting events has been... .
well, it hasn’t been. The state of
things might have been tolerable
. “4 ' 5; (read: expected), but after Mon-
day’s attendance for W&L’s match in the NCAA tennis championships,
I think we’ve gone beyond the point of tolerance.

It is sad that as a rule no W&L sports teams receive student fan sup-
port. It'is sad because recognition among your peers is the greatest
compliment any athlete can receive. And it is sad because being the
home team is something that should be used to one’s advantage. Un-
fortunately, time and again at W&L, the home team, through no fault
of its own, is unable to use that advantage because there are no fans to
tip the scale in its favor.

What I saw Monday — or rather didn’t see — was the kind of thing
that leaves you with a bad taste in your mouth. And why? Because I
knew that a good number of assembled peers easily could have made
the difference between winning and losing. Tennis — and it can be
equated with football, basketball and even a student play — has the
quality of putting one in a me-against-the-world position. A word of en-
couragement or simply one’s presence can do wonders to alleviate
that feeling. It’s that ‘‘Hey, I’m with you, buddy”’ attitude that is miss-
ing almost everywhere you look on this campus, and it was painfully
obvious out by the tennis courts on Monday — and on Tuesday and
Wednesday, for that matter.

It is as if nobody made it a point to know what was going on. The in-
formation was there to be found. But still there were more tennis
players and officials than fans.

Sure, there was a problem with the signs telling what time the team
would play on Monday listing the wrong time. But they were corrected
before 9 a.m. on Monday. So, in fact, there was not a problem — that
is, if you don’t consider yourselves a problem.

And I don’t think this tirade should limit itself to the students. With
the noteworthy exceptions of the athletic department and President
Wilson, I don’t remember seeing any of the faculty in attendance.
Would it be out of line for a professor to say to his or her class, ‘‘Go out
and watch the tennis matches today’’? And is it asking too much again
to pull yourself away from that schedule of yours that really isn’t all
that busy to watch some of your students play for the national cham-
pionship, or sing in the glee club?

One of the great things about Washington and Lee is that much-
ballyhooed family atmosphere of the small college. As I watched the
matches this week, I wondered where the rest of the family was.

Ultimately, there is no excuse, and all of you who weren’t there at
the tennis matches and haven’t attended events all year know that as
well as I do....

....Glancing down the Colonnade, congratulations to the tennis team
on its eighth place finish at nationals. Hard work does pay off. A word
to the wise: This crew will be back in the thick of it again next year and
the year to follow and the year that follows that one...Another tip of the
cap to Page Remillard’s aquatics program and two of its many stand-
outs — water polo players Bobby Pearson and Tim Stanford were
selected first team all-America last week....

...That new game show, “NBA Lotto,” was fun, and those who
claim it really wasn’t fair because the worst team won’t get the best
talent should take a second look at last year’s mad dash for last place.
Picking numbers out of a hat is a lot more constructive than cheating
tolose....

| TIME
| OUT...
\ By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

 

 

22 W. Nelson St.

——

 

 

Open Friday nights until 9 p.m.

P

a)

Clothiers for Men and Ladies

The Difference Between
Dressed, and Well Dressed

   

 

 

 

 

—————

 

 

 

 

 

  
   

, on

 

 

i

soon at The W&L Robhsiare

 

 
 

 

 

eBack Page

The Ring-tum Phi

May 16, 1985

Total Theatre: not just ‘hammers and nails’

Improving Shakespeare:
W&L profs rewrite ‘R&J’

 

By JOHN RILEY
Staff Reporter

 

The description in the University
Catalogue is not particularly speci-
fic:

“Drama 139 — Total Theatre (6) A
study of the technical aspects of di-
recting and acting problems assoc-
iated with a specific style of drama-
tic literature culminating in produc-
tion of a play within that style.”

What does this mean in practical
terms?

‘No papers, no homework, but you
have to work hard all the time almost
every day,” said junior drama major
Chris Carmouche.

For the students who take Total
Theatre, the work begins each week-
day with technical rehearsal from
9:30 a.m. until noon. Another rehear-
sal begins at 1 p.m. and runs until 5.
Evening rehearsals are frequent, of-
ten going until 10:30.

“The pace is very great,”’ said Jo-
seph Martinez, assistant professor of
drama at W&L and the current direc-
tor of the course. ‘‘But after some
grumblings, [the students] do just
fine. Sometimes I have to ride the
students a little at first, but after a
week or so, everyone gets used to it.”

The value of, the course, Martinez
said, is that everyone is involved with
each phase of the production. In addi-
tion to playing their roles, the stu-
dents must build the sets, design
their costumes and participate in
other facets of a production with
which many of them are inexperienc-
ed.

“Coming in at 9:30 in the morning
to do tech rehearsals was a new ex-
perience for me,” said Christina
Fischer, an exchange student from
Hollins College. ‘‘It gives you a good
knowledge of what goes into a pro-
duction.”

“The course lets you know what

327,
1965). Reid 203.
Chapel.

reservations call 463-8637.

203.

Lee Chapel.

 

W&L drama Professor Joseph Martinez explains
some final details to Greg Stites and the rest of Total

each of the people in a production are
up against,” Carmouche said. ‘“‘It
makes you more sympathetic to the
problems of the lighting people or the
set people or the actors or what-
ever.”’

Martinez said that this year in par-
ticular, the ‘total’ in Total Theatre
is being emphasized.

“In the past, we had more people in
the class, so it was possible to have
some people working in tech alone,”’
he added. ‘‘But this year I wanted to
make everybody do everything, to re-
connect with the ‘total’ concept.”’

This approach to the course is very
demanding, and Martinez termed
himself ‘‘a stringent disciplinarian.”’

“Some of the students were not

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, May 16
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “Robinson Crusoe.” Commerce School

7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM: “‘Othello.”’ (Dexter and Burge,
8 p.m. — STUDENT RECITAL: David Andrews, ’87. Violinist. Lee

Friday, May 19
8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Two Lovers of Verona.” University Theatre. For

Sunday, May 19
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘Two Lovers of Verona.’’ University Theatre.

Monday, May 20
7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM: “‘Macbeth’’ (Welles, 1948). Reid

8 p.m. — PLAY: “Two Lovers of Verona.’’ University Theatre.
8 p.m. — LECTURE: “Moral Principles and Nuclear Weapons.”
Douglas P. Lackey, Baruch College, New York. Northen.

Tuesday, May 21
8 p.m. — CONTACT LECTURE: Robert Moss, novelist and journalist.

Wednesday, May 22
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘Martin Luther’’ (Pichel, 1953). Com-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

merce School 327.
Lexington SERVINDTAR:
Bike Shop imac
Motobecane Lexington Hardware
Mirage 463-2242

12 SP, 28 tb. alloy rims

Was 249°

peo el Stockbroker
sii eee ak 9-12 Trainee

Pree eens Opportunity in Virginia

Lexington’s Best
Music Variety
91.5 FM
WLUR

 

 

ach for hard-working, en-
thusiastic individual. Send
resume to:

 

 

 

HffmorEL kite Florist

Remember All Graduations

We Wire Flowers Everywhere

165 South Main Street

aware of what they were getting into
when they signed up, so there were
some compiaints at first,’’ he said.
‘But the students have got to learn
that being in the theater takes a great
commitment from everyone. It takes
a great deal of time and energy to do
itright.”’

“It’s no longer ‘Hammers and
Nails,’ like it used to be called,”’
Fischer said.

A unique feature of the course is
that because of the changing nature
of the work each year due to the pro-
duction of the course, drama majors
are permitted to take the course
twice, and, in fact, are encouraged to
do so,

“We prefer to have more exper-

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Theatre class. The class’s production of ‘Two Lovers of
Verona” opens tomorrow.

ienced people in the course, and so
we like to have people take it twice,”
Martinez said.

This year’s production, ‘Two
Lovers of Verona,” a musical com-
edy, will be performed not only at
W&L but also at Mary Baldwin Col-
lege and several other area schools.

Martinez said the short period of
time in which to ready the show af-
fects the teaching aspect of the
course. ‘It can’t be just a classroom
experience, because we do in fact
have a show that must be put on,
ready or not,”’ he said.

But Fischer is optimistic. ‘‘We
started with a pretty inexperienced
group,’ ’ she said, ‘‘but we’ve come a
long way.’

 

By ROB DORAIS
Staff Reporter

 

“Two Lovers of Verona,’’ a
musical comic version of ‘‘Romeo
and Juliet’ written by two Washing-
ton and Lee drama professors, will
premiere tomorrow night at 8 in the
University Theatre.

The musical is a spoof of Shake-
speare’s tragedy in which two lovers
try to get married over the objections
of their parents, according to assis-
tant drama Professor Joseph Marti-
nez, one of the play’s creators.

‘Anyone who comes expecting it to
be a serious treaty on the themes in
‘Romeo and Juliet’ will be sadly dis-
appointed,’’ Martinez said.

“It's a clever treatment,’’ he ad-
ded.

The idea for the play came from
Martinez’s training in commedia dell
arte, or improvisational acting. Mar-
tinez studied at a gestural theater
school in Wisconsin where many
world famous pantomimes taught
their craft.

Actors of commedia dell arte in the
1500s would study acting for their en-
tire lives and learn their parts from
their fathers. There were no set
lines; only the scenario was set.

Martinez wrote the scenario, or
plot and characters for the play, then
“brainstormed’’ and _ improvised
with associate drama Professor Tho-
mas J. Ziegler, who wrote the finish-
ed script.

The plays of commedia dell arte
would often have references to
famous people of the day and current
events. ‘‘Two Lovers of Verona’’ re-

plicates this style with witty —
such as ‘‘Junk Food.”’

Ziegler’s wife, Shirley, wrote the’
lyrics and music for ‘‘Junk Food,”’
which is sung by Juliet’s servant. The
servant, Alfreda, does not want Ju-
liet to marry Romeo because she has ,
spent Juliet’s dowry on — you guess-
ed it — junk food. Alfreda will be por-
trayed by Mary Baldwin College ,
freshman Suzanne Lochner.

Also, Romeo and Lady Capulet
sing a suicidal song titled ‘‘Life Is’
Nothing But a Practical Joke.’’,
Romeo gives Lady Capulet a gun and
says: “‘It’s a gun — it hasn’t been in-’
vented yet — put it to your head and,
pull the trigger.”’

Although ‘West Side Story”’ is con-
sidered the classic musical version of’
“Romeo and Juliet,’’ Martinez and,
Ziegler take that one step further by
establishing many comic subplots.

In addition to three performances '
in the University Theatre (tomorrow, :
Sunday and Monday), “Two Lovers |
of Verona” will be performed at’
Mary Baldwin (Saturday), Lylburn ’
Downing Middle School (Wednes- ,
day), E.C. Glass High School in
Lynchburg (next Thursday), Maury '
Elementary School in Fredericks- ,
burg (May 25) and Hudson Commu-
nity College in Lenoir, N.C. (May 28). ©

Tickets for the three performances
at the University Theatre are $2 for '
non-W&L students and senior citizens ,
and $3 for adults. Students are admit-
ted free of charge but are encouraged '
a. = reservations by calling ,

Margarine, not butter—but real china!

 

By PAUL DAVEY
and RUSTY JOHNSON
Restaurant Critics

 

The quest for more fine food took
us this week to the Virginia House
Restaurant. Located on Main Street
between the Southern States Farm-
ers’ Co-op and Harrison’s Funeral
Home, the Virginia House specializes
in good-tasting, yet expensive, food
from the hours of 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and
5 to 8:30 p.m., and has been doing so
for the past 25 years.

One of the items we tested was the
Daily Special. That day the Special
was fried chicken with two vegeta-
bles and coffee or tea. The ‘‘special’’
price was $3.15. This might make it
seem as if the owners of the Virginia
House have the customers’ best fi-
nancial interests on their minds;
however, this belief is shown to bea
fallacy — the regular price is $3.25.

The fried chicken was good and
was presented in ample quantities.

The vegetables chosen were the bak-
ed potato and the tossed salad. The
baked potato was good, even though
the restaurant only serves marga-
rine; there is no REAL butter. The
tossed salad, however, was not so
good. The colors of the lettuce
— yellow, brown and a little light
green — might perhaps lead one to
believe that the salad was not tossed
around the kitchen of the Virginia
House; rather, one might think that
the tossing was done in the studio of
an artist with a bad sense of color
awareness or in one of the cement
mixers next door at the Southern
States’ plant.

The other item chosen was the Vir-
ginia Baked Ham. For $4.98 we were
rather disappointed with this dish. To
say the least, the sparse serving was
dry and well, well marbled. Of
course, the entree came with two
vegetables, which were well-pre-
pared and hot, although it is doubtful
that the servings could have totaled
more than three tablespoons each.

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROW Thue Value STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

 

 

 

E. Nelson St. Mon. - Sat. 8:30 - 6:00
463-2186
t BATTERIES po
AR’

 

C. C. PARTS, INC. *

WHOLESALE AUTO PARTS

 

Gabriel and Monroe :
Shock Absorber Sale

Below Wholesale Prices

 

+
5
4
2025 SYCAMORE AVENUE ;

 

 

 

 

 

 

First Jersey Securities, Inc: Lexington, VA BUENA VISTA, VA
P oO Box 8814 ROUTE 11 NORTH

oe 463-7111

irginia Beach, VA 23450

261-3131
ee et. a9

 

 

463-9152

 

 

 

 

Campus

SHOP

117 West Nelson Street

Lexington, Virginia

Enlarged Stock Including:
Blank Cassettes and Newspapers

Albums and cassettes

Aen ie

 

Despite the fact that the servings are
petite, hot homemade biscuits are
served with the meal (but beware:
extra biscuits will cost 10 cents
each!). Chilled beer can be enjoyed
with your meal in frosted glasses for
a reasonable 95 cents/brew. To top
off our luncheons, we each tried the
special chocolate-pecan pie, which
was excellent until we saw the price:
$1.15 a slice!

We were deeply disappointed to
find that there were very few things
in the area of ‘‘atmosphere’’ to deal
on. The linen tablecloths are a nice
touch, as are the abundant live

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24480
703-463-9342

 

 

plants. The many historical post- ’
cards could fulfill the desires of any
Winnebago-driving tourist going ,
South for the summer.

To sum up, the food was pretty ’
good, served on real china (by a wai- ,
tress that greatly resembled a geria.-
tric nurse), although it was not worth '
the price. The two of us dropped ,
$17.71 (including the 15 percent tip).
We were even further delighted to ‘
find out that the evening prices were ,
“slightly higher” than the luncheon
prices. Maybe that could explain why ‘
there is a larger crowd most even- ,
ings at the funeral home next door.

Chinese and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails
Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

 

PIZZA

$2 OFF!

SALE:

 

@ Better hurry to your home
town Pizza Hut” restaurant!
It's not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza.{f¥ So
come on in. Bring the whole

 

agnste Se

Sor tens airs sans

ay

LB

i

Me,
sare

a
& 1 $9 OFF

1 $2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium, In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan

g Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon, One coupon
per party per visit at

# participating Pizza Hut*

® restaurants

ss ae i

f Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered 4

Pe
Pizza

  
 

Please 5 “ t whe dering Not validir nbination with any other offer | 20 cent
y ' f siue ¢ 1983 Pizza Hut, Ine Good only through :

5-31-85 *
Ge, Ae A Ue Ae ER A oe OR Oe ee ee

iad. owl
family. () We'll ~ on layers
of pure mozzarella cheese and

all your favorite toppings.
There's no better time to try
our unparalleled Pizza Hut*
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

ica

|
|
|

  

1]
[

 

 

; |
ore a
$qunt

600 E.. Nelson St.
Lexingtan, VA
452-7000
