ae

THE UNIVERETY LASRART
WASHINGTON @ (L422 USeVErENTY
LOXING@TON, VA. 24450

WAN 25 885
Your Weekend Weather

 

   
      
  

 

 

The Back Page
‘Something

 

Sports
Grapplers 7-2-1;
Dixon back
Page 7

Che Ring-tum Phi

JANUARY 24, 1985

Windy, colder tomorrow;
weekend lows in teens

. to see’
Page 8

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

University studies cost
of the 24-hour library

to bring to campus,” Elrod said. ‘‘We certainly hope to

have that process wrapped up by the spring if not soon-
on.”

VOLUME 84, NUMBER 16

General
Notes

Cole’s back!

The following subcommittees
are scheduled to present budget
reports to the Executive Commit-
tee on Monday at 7 p.m. in the EC
room: the Rugby Club, the Stu-
dent Activities Board, the Ski
Club, the Cold Check Committee,
the International Club and the
Hockey Club.

Donate a dinner

Representatives of the Muscu-
lar Dystrophy Superdance will be
in Evans Dining Hall on Monday
to ask patrons to donate their
Wednesday dinners to the Muscu-

 

 

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

He said that at that time, ‘‘we’ll look over the entire
— and see what direction he or she might want to
take.”

History Professor Lamar J.R. Cecil Jr., chairman of
the faculty library committee, said the shortened hours
issue is ‘‘just a rumor in the air,” but acknowledged
that there are ‘‘several members of the Library Com-
mittee who want to look at the hours.”’

“The Library Committee has not been asked to make
a recommendation,” he emphasized.

Cecil said that although he is ‘‘in favor of keeping the
library open 24 hours,” a study of the situation might

The cost of maintaining the University Library’s 24-
hour schedule and the possibility of shortening its hours
are being studied by school officials.

University Librarian Maurice D. Leach said this
week that administrators have embarked on a program
to study ‘‘the economics of the University, in order to
see where costs might be cut,”’ and that the library is
one area being studied.

University Treasurer E. Stewart Epley said yester-
day that “‘there is no decision that’s been made yet”’ on
whether to shorten library hours.

He said buildings and grounds superintendent James

 

 

lar Dystrophy campaign. L. Arthur has’ determined that the library could save find that doing so is not economically prudent. He char-
$20,000 a year on electricity by closing between mid- acterized the cost of operating the library around the
An FD date clock as ‘enormous.

night and 7 a.m. He said there would be no savings on
heating or air conditioning.

Epley declined to specify the personnel savings that
would result from closing overnight. The library is staf-
fed by one person at the circulation desk during those
hours.

Dean of the College John W. Elrod said yesterday that
although the option of closing the library overnight has
been discussed, ‘‘it’s not being taken seriously at all.”’

“Phere’s some thought about that, but it’s a very pre-
liminary thing,’’ he said. ‘“‘We certainly wouldn’t do
something like that without looking into it very careful-
ee

Elrod said a change in the library schedule would be
made, “‘if at all,’’ after a new university librarian has
been appointed. Leach announced in October that he
was resigning the librarianship July 1 in order to accept
another University position.

“We're still receiving applications and deciding who

“If one considers the cost of utilities alone, apart
from salaries, then it would make sense to examine the
use made of the library in the after-hours.”’ he said.

Cecil said that if it is found that the University cannot
keep the library operating on its present schedule, the
hours would likely be changed so that the library would
be open from 8 a.m. to midnight.

“It seems to me to be very reasonable, as other libra-
ries operate on the same principle,’’ he said.

Leach said that the new library, which opened in 1979,
was designed on the principle that it would be open
around the clock. He said that schedule was modeled on
the policies of the Law School and Commerce School li-
braries, both of which are open 24 hours a day.

According to hourly records kept by the library, 8,400
people entered the library between midnight and 8 a.m.

The Student Activities Board re-
minds students, faculty and alum-
ni that Fancy Dress is March 8,
not March 1, as indicated on the
University calendar.

‘October’ in January

The Russian Film Series will
present “October: Ten Days That
Shook the World,” a 1927 Russian
film with English subtitles, tomor-
row at7 p.m. in Commerce School
327. This epic-sized docudrama of
the Russian Revolution is directed
by Sergei Eisenstein.

Red,

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Wave sacked

The Unknown Fans’ enthusiasm (top) in leading The Wave at last week’s
basketball game against Roanoke was sobered somewhat (bottom) when
female Roanoke fans, during a brief melee, debagged some of the now-not-

so-Unknown Fans. (Story on Page 6.) C See Library, Page 3

 

“Reds,” looking at the same
subject from an American point of
view, will be shown by the Politics

Film Festival on Wednesday and |.

Thursday at 7 p.m. in Commerce

Trustees hike tuition 8.9% to $7,100

[ae ne amr mere mR ECAR RR ALAR CT Ree cam

ORO RBI, arty

 

 

 

 

 
 

Job market
still strong

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

School 327. The 199-minute film is ye aoe DEIGHAN iti cPI* ;
directed, co-scripted and produc- ent =a f
sree cme || W&L Tuition of neriore
Tuition next year will increase $585
W h ite to $7,100, the Board of Trustees decid- oi By PAUL FOUTCH
’ ed last weekend in Atlanta. a Tuition News Editor
All students interested in serv- The increase provides for faculty 6,000 VS i nfl atio n
ing on the White Book Revisions salary increases, four additional ae A ee DA 350.0 The job market for Washington and
Committee should notify the Ex- | faculty positions and $1.95 million in Lee students graduating in June
ecutive Committee by Monday. student grants, administrators said 5,000 (1967-1985) c should remain as strong as it has
this week. 300.0 | been the last two years, according to
and Blueg rass University President John D. employers and employment coun-
Wilson called the 8.9 percent increase 250.0 selors interviewed this week.
Wildgrass will appear in the | “really kind of high.” 4,000 . “I think our outlook is going to be
Cockpit on Saturday after 8 p.m. But E. Stewart Epley, University the same - - ~ the last i
. treasurer, said the higher tuition was years,” said David Jones, employ-
Proof negative necessary ‘‘since ase are more 3,000 ees ment manager for Newport News
Senior proofs will be available demands and needs to be met than Shipbuilding Co., which usually hires
for viewing tonight, Sunday and we can satisfy with our current in- 150.0 one or two engineering or math ma-
Monday from 9 p.m. toll p.m. in | SMe 2,000 jors from — eer dmini
the Calyx Office. Bring your According to Epley, the three Jones, a former business adminis-
Ghatak. Ano. caniens tan sources of income that provide 1,600 100.0 | tration professor at W&L, said his
have not had their pictures taken “Umnited” asnete for the budget each 67 69 7 73 "75 ‘77 79 81 83 85 company hires 30 or 40 students out of
and would like to do so should call | Ye" are the University endowment, college each year and will recruit for
the Calyx office at 463-8583 or alii fund and nine outside *Consumer Price Index - Registers inflation from a 1967 base of 100. For example, goods and oa wee porta ‘ette
=. me i office during the Ghobtaeten inedatendink it tuition services costing $100 in 1967 would cost $299.70 in 1983. acnine ‘tx eétent Senaé’ ttuniies.
. money also generates income for the Since the 1982 recession, the economy
University, though this income is University ‘‘must do everything we coed related — and two romance the University ‘modestly in the has been strong and hiring has been

Forum: the magazine

W&L’s Biology Forum is intro-
ducing a new publication for the
W&L community: the Washington
and Lee Journal of Science. It will
focus upon current medical, bio-
ethical, psychological and sociolo-
gical issues. All interested should
attend an organizational meeting
Tuesday at7 p.m. in Parmly 301.

500 different words

Applications for American
Mensa Ltd. scholarships for
1985-86 are available in the Finan-
cial Aid office. The application
and a 500-word creative essay
must be postmarked by March 1.

McHistory

April 22 is the deadline for
submission of papers for the
Virginia Cincinnati Society
Award, given to the author of the
best essay in American military
history or some other subject in
colonial, revolutionary or pre-
Civil War history of the United
States. Further information is

available from Professor
McAhren.
Ask Carole

Senior index ferms must be fill-
ed out by the end of this month.
Pick them up from Carole Chap-
pell’s office in the Student Center.

Solarcentrists, unite

Auditions for ‘Galileo’ will be
held in the Troubadour Theatre on
Sunday from 3 to 6 p.m. and on
Monday from 6 to 8 p.m. For more
information call 463-8638

limited.

Contributions to the annual fund
are a major source of income, and
Epley said that ‘signals are...mix-
ed’ regarding the success of this
year’s drive. He added, however,
that ‘‘exactly the same number of
people are working...harder than
before”’ to increase the fund.

The only possible way to meet next
year’s expenses according to Epley,
was by raising tuition.

In a statement, Wilson said the

can to sustain’ its student-faculty
ratio of 10 to 1.

“We will not and cannot com-
promise on the quality of the
academic program we offer to those
who are accepted for degree can-
didacy,’’ said Wilson, adding that
ways to slow down the tuition in-
crease will be studied.

The addition of four faculty
members next year, including an
assistant dean of students, and an
assistant athletic director — both

languages professors — the conse-
quence of new academic require-
ments — were one cause for the
higher budget accepted for next
year.

Other expenses will include faculty
salary adjustments and fringe
benefits, athletic equipment and
library books, Epley noted.

Since October, Epley and three
academic deans had been working on
next year’s budget before the Board
accepted the final draft, which leaves

black,’ according to Epley. The
$26,000 surplus in the budget is ‘‘not
significant,’ however, since the
budget is based only on estimates.

The treasurer and the deans had
worked on “‘six different budgets bas-
ed on different assumptions of tuition
and. faculty salary adjustment,”
Epley said.

The budget approved by the board
provides $1.95 million to be used as

“) See Tuition, Page 4

ata high level.

Judith Kayser, manager of sta-
tistical services for the College
Placement Council, said yesterday
that the classes of 1982 and 1983 suf-
fered the worst from the 1982 reces-
sion.

“We've just pulled out of the
doldrums in terms of employing right
out of college,’ Kayser said. ‘‘Last
year’s class began to reap the bene-

C See Jobs, Page 3

 

 

 

Some winter math: Zero minus 12 is

By BRUCE POTTER
Chief Editor

 

How cold was it?

eThe mercury in the geology department’s
thermometer dropped off the temperature
scale.

eIn addition to the usual problems such as
cracked radiators and weak batteries faced
by car owners, the brakes froze on one stu-
dent’s car.

eA West Virginia ski resort closed its slopes
because it was tee cold.

eThe outdoor swearing-in. cereimony for
President Ronald Reagan and the parade
down Pennsylvania Avenue weren't the only
events canceled because of Monday's weath-
er — Lexington’s Stonewall Jackson birthday
celebration also succumbed to the cold.

The Arctic air mass that sent temperatures
plummeting throughout the Eastern half of
the nation earlier this week and the problems
that accompanied it did not spare Lexington

The temperature Saturday at midnight was
30 degrees, according to the geology depart-
ment’s thermometer. From there, the tem-
perature kept dropping as a cold air mass
moved through town

Within 24 hours, the temperature had dip-
ped to a frosty 8 degrees below zero. The low
temperature of the week was recorded at 5
a.m. Monday — 12 degrees below zero.

“Actually, it was approximately minus-12,
because it ran off the scale,’’ said Bob Thren,
technical assistant in the geology depart-
ment,

The scale only goes to 10 degrees above
zero, and below that, Thren said, ‘‘I did a lot
of interpolation.”

With winds approaching 20 miles an hour,
the wind chill temperature was about 50 de-
grees below zero for Sunday night and much
of Monday.

“It's the coldest we've had since we've been
running this machine (about four years),”’
said Thren, who added that the temperature
at his home in Collierstown registered 18 de-
grees below zero.

‘It doesn’t do this too often,’’ he said.

James L. Arthur, superintendent of build-
ings and grounds, said, ‘‘It’s the coldest that I
can ever remember, and I’ve lived here all
my life.”

University proctor Charles F. ‘‘Murph’’
Murray agreed with Arthur’s assessment of
the cold. ‘I'd say it’s one of the coldest spells
we've had for a long, long time,”’ he said.

Although Lexington was spared the Super
Bowl Sunday winter storm that blanketed
other parts of the state with up to 6 inches of
snow, the cold temperatures alone were
enough to cause the usual problems.

Arthur said buildings and grounds fixed
several burst pipes this week but that, in gen-
eral, ‘‘we got by pretty well.’’

On campus, a radiator in Howe Hall and a
cold water line leading to the ROTC building
that froze and burst were among the pro-
blems. Two fraternities, Lambda Chi Alpha
and Kappa Sigma, and the Lampost also had
frozen pipes.

Buildings and grounds staff members had
to work some overtime hours Monday night,
Arthur said.

To prevent frozen pipes, Arthur
recommended that students ensure that
broken window panes and holes in walls have
been repaired and that no vents are open un-
derneath their house. Leaving water running
also will help, Arthur said.

For one of the first times, the heating plant
had to use the second of its two 500-horsepow-
er boilers Monday, Arthur said. That means
about 25,000 pounds of steam were being pro-
duced each hour. By Tuesday, though, the

- insane cl aca ummamana nRR eo rma Ua Ai a needa ren eRe ee aera aaa

FREEZING!!!

heating plant was back to using only the one
boiler.

Jim Southers, of Auto Towing and Repair
on U.S. 60 west of Lexington, said his compa-
ny helped about 50 motorists Sunday, Monday
and Tuesday. More than 25 of those were
Washington and Lee students, Southers esti-
mated.

The most common problem, Southers said,
was cars that simply wouldn’t start because
of a weak battery, thick oil or ice in the gas
line.

In order to prevent car troubles during cold
weather, Southers suggested that motorists
place a blanket or a piece of plastic over their
engines (only when the engines are cool).
When trying to start a cold car, pump the ac-
celerator once and then hold it all the way to
the floor, he said.

To prevent frostbite and other cold-weather
health problems, students should wear a lot of
warm clothing, especially a scarf or some-
thing around portions of their faces, and mini-
mize their time outside, according to Brenda
Jackson, medical secretary in the infirmary.

No W&L students went to the infirmary
with weather-related problems this week,
said Jackson, adding, ‘‘Just be practical and
take good care of yourself.”’

 

 

 

 
TRARY. FPNewee: ser
KI! 44 @ perp er!
Val @ ype ee )

OPINION

 

Page 2
January 24, 1985

 

Nice idea

“During the summer of 1984 an inventory of all books housed
in the open stacks was taken. Twelve hundred volumes were miss-
ing for the four years following the 1980 inventory. Until the
move into the new library, an average of 1,000 volumes was lost
annually. We believe this dramatic decline in lossage occurred
because of the 24-hour access to the collections. There is no
doubt that student tensions in using the library have been lessen-
ed by the 24-hour open-door policy. It is the single most popular
library service with the student body.”

Annual Report: 1983-84
The University Library

The revelation this week that the University, in studying
ways to decrease operating costs, is considering the possible
cessation of 24-hour library service is as unreasonable as it is
surprising. Not only is the consideration of such an idea
dangerous, but it could be suicidal.

To understand best the ludicrousness of such an idea, one
must go back six years to the planning of the new University
Library. At that time, the Board of Trustees called upon
University Librarian Maurice D. Leach Jr., to present them
with a tentative design for a library he felt would adequately
meet the standards and growth needs of the University.
Operating expenses — the costs of lighting, heating and staff-
ing the library — he was told, were not to be his concern.
They wanted the best building for the time, and that they got.
Although no extravagances or opulent ‘‘extras’’ were added,
the library was — as it continues to be — perhaps the pre-
miere facility for a school this size.

The University Library remains distinct for several rea-
sons. According to Leach, Washington and Lee has the only
library open 24 hours a day for student use during the aca-
demic session in the eastern United States.

A selected statistical study in the Annual Report of the
University Library showed that Washington and Lee has the
lowest expenditure per student per open hour among such
schools as Amherst, Davidson and Smith. Prospective stu-
dents and parents, according to Leach, repeatedly remark
how impressed they are with the library’s 24-hour policy. As
Leach noted, ‘‘The University Library is a mirror of the cam-
pus. Its dynamics are an active and accurate reflection of the
academic programs on campus.”’

For Washington and Lee, however, the library remains
unique and important for other reasons as well. Other than
the Cockpit and the Co-op, it remains the only meeting place
for all students on campus. Not only is it the lifeblood of
recorded information to the campus and community, but it
serves as the heart of the University.

But as much as it may be appealing to save nearly $30,000 a
year by closing the library between midnight and 8 a.m., the
costs accrued in the long run will be far more expensive.

Consider, perhaps, the strain such action places on the .

Honor System. Closing the-library-at night will:mean that
students, believing their work unfinished, may be tempted to
pack up the books (without checking them out) and, illegally
(or would it be ‘‘dishonorably’’?), take them home. That
places an undue tension upon the Honor System. Even the li-
brary’s annual report noted that the extraordinarily low theft
rate is directly attributable to the open nature of the library.
The Honor System, therefore, is reinforced by an open
library, and not unduly tested. At this school, which prides
itself on a heritage of honor and mutual trust, placing such a
temptation before students creates an unnecessary test for
the System.

Also to be considered is the splintering effect such a move
might have on the esprit de corps of the student body. The
library remains a center of student life, more so than any
other institution associated with the University. It is the only
place where the overwhelming majority of students may
gather for a common intellectual pursuit. It contributes to
the University an academic unity not found elsewhere. And
don’t forget the long-term dream of one University official to
gather students together nearer the campus. Would ceasing
to offer 24-hour library service further such an end?

If the concern by University officials is cost, then why,
when designing the building, were the planners told to forget
about operating costs? If the concern is for lighting and
heating expensee, then be sure to turn off lights and heat
everywhere on campus. The Colonnade would look very pret-
ty illuminated only by the stars at night.

Weighing the costs and benefits, we’re hard-pressed to fig-
ure why, then, the University is even considering such a
move. It certainly seems as though the costs of operating the
library are nominal for the benefits it offers. Closing the
library at night would place a greater stress on the student
body to circumvent the Honor System when necessary. Addi-
tionally, posting hours on the front doors would take away yet
another tradition from the Univeristy, a tradition that, unlike
some that have recently passed by the boards (the Board?),

- impresses and attracts far more students than it repels.

Closing the library at night would be foolish, dangerous and

self-destructive. It should not be done. It should not even be

‘ considered. — By Nelson Patterson

Business Manager
William Schoeffler

Chief Editors
Bruce Potter
Mike Allen

WN TN 55 hs hae cakes ss 086s ci neetes ecceessseeacssrscci- Paul Foutch
Pee BN oi cnc c coe sc cc sccencnee ters cceeececcsauesrsaces Reade Williams
eo ge ER ere Cotton Puryear
gg eee oT tht re ee

Editorial Page Editor

Photography Editor ............

Circulation Manager
Advertising Manager
CRP eS eo acc ccs i i

 

Advertising Salesmen . ...Chuck Bracken, Hank Greenberg, Eric Hancock, Jeff Kimbell,
Reb Tolleson

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

7 Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

nee Tule eee
WU Ct aanennane

‘ A al

WL

 

 

 

a?

 

 

 

MY
VIEW

By Al
Roberts

 

 

 

 

 

Everybody has known the warm
fuzziness of being inside looking out
on these piercing winter days... or
have they?

President Reagan’s encore in-
augural address Monday rang hollow
through the Capitol before an elite
audience of 1,200 citizens, as
teenagers and some adults — 10,578
of them — could not parade and
138,800 invited guests could not at-
tend. About 500 protesters against
apartheid and other inequities untar-
nished by Reagan initiatives strode
the blast nonetheless, undaunted by a
wind chill index of minus 25.

No message greeted these citizens,
but the Oval Office hotline reached
out to 71,500 anti-abortion demon-
strators the next day.

Tuesday also revealed the perplex-
ing- ‘borrowed minks” caper, as we
discovered that the fur-laden
revéfers at the Convention Center
were finally at a loss to distinguish
mink from mink before stumbling in-
to the cold late air. Apparently some
coats were ‘“‘borrowed” by non-
owners unable or unwilling to find
tarry or brave the cold city. ‘“‘Who
a left holding no mink?” we might
ask.

The yuppies and young civil ser-

 

vants ages 18 to 30 were only too hap-
py to hold the presidential hand at the
Young Americans Ball, which was
the first of nine inaugural fetes, bear-
ing price tags from $50 to $125. Per-
haps such expensive partying is due,
as the Commerce Department re-
ported yesterday that Reagan’s
fourth year brought the highest gross
national product since 1951 and the
lowest inflation since 1967.

If our elected officials and their ap-
pointees are indeed watching out for
our future (read nukes and deficits),
we should all be as grateful as the
young Reaganites of November.

But do we all deserve this care?
Are we worth the ‘‘hard decisions”
our chief warns will surely come?

Who is it that writes ‘I hate nig-
gers’’ and ‘‘nuke commies’’ on the
bathroom walls of this campus? Who
leaves the trash other men must
gather every morning in the library,
or after parties on frat-lined streets?

We have the chilliest palms of all if
we are they: if we think ‘‘Washington
and Lee made Lexington what it is
and to hell with townies.”’

And ‘‘to hell with Hollie Collies and
Sweetbush babes,”’ I’ve heard. I’ve
heard tales of marginal sexual
assault and actionable rape, of foul
abuse of women and the colleges they
attend, of things that would turn even
the steadiest hand to violence.

Do not think for a moment that this
activity leaves any Calyx photo un-
stained. If not my face with my
name, then those of my friends, or
their friends’ friends. And all the
honors in the world, all the disserta-
tions and good works on earth... can-
not wash away such stains.

Disgrace knows no politics; it
needs no labels save America and
Washington and Lee University. The
malfeasance of one distorts the im-
age of all.

Even as the faculty and admissions
office. strain to court female
members, their steps are scuffed
over by the minority of men who are"
not gentlemen. Certainly these are a
fraction of the shoes upon the Colon-
nade, but even one is one too many
for a school so dependent on the
tradition of gentle words and strong
values. And if not for our self-esteem,
then for our future sensibilities we
must guard the unwritten corollaries
of the Honor Code outside our chry-
salis campus.

“My friends,” said the President,
“we live in a world that’s lit by
lightning. So much is changing and
will change, but so much endures and
transcends time...we see and hear
the echoes of our past.

“It is the American sound: it is
hopeful, big-hearted, idealistic —
daring, decent and fair.”’

Such are our leader’s expectations
from us — that we should be gentle-
men and nothing less. Those who are
know it not by the absence of an Ex-
ecutive Committee summons, but by
an inner fire. It warms them as they
gaze through frost, considering the
cold, cruel future. Others have not
yet learned that the most comforting
warmth cannot be bought, and have
not yet learned to be outside looking
in.

Both have known the same frustra-
tion in the streets, or shops, or party
spots... and wondered why cold
shoulders turn.

Hazing more than ‘harmless’

MY
VIEW

 

By Scott

Stockburger

Congratulations to the editors and
staff of The Ring-tum Phi for their
front-page article on hazing! (Jan.
17, 1985) This sensitive issue has long
been taboo to students and adminis-
trators. It is high time that the pro-
blem of hazing be brought out for dis-
cussion and debate. I would now like
to address some of the statements
made to The Phi in its article.

First, to the administrators and
students who aren’t ‘‘sure”’ or ‘don’t
know enough’’ about this hazing: I do
know. I am sure. Hazing is a serious
problem at W&L, and the pledge edu-
cation programs at many fraternities
leave much to be desired. Many stu-
dents persist in denying any know-
ledge of hazing. Since no W&L gentle-
men would consciously lie, it is ob-
vious to me that we have a lot of very
naive students on our campus. Per-
haps it is time for those students to be

“enlightened.”’

Bob Tomaso, the head dormitory
counselor, said, ‘Every fraternity
hazes to a certain extent.’’ At least
one fraternity with a chapter at W&L
was founded at VMI in 1869 in opposi-
tion to hazing. And though the pledge
eduation program at that chapter, as
in all chapters, may be far from per-
fect, the brothers make a valiant and
worthy effort to make sure the
pledges are not subjected to anything
that might even be misconstrued as
hazing. I believe there are other fra-
ternities here that make similar ef-
forts.

There are many fraternities at
W&L that conduct a scavenger hunt
for its pledges. Many national head-
quarters have not been very jubilant
about this. But all fraternities need
not require their pledges to bring
back ‘‘souvenirs’’ such as McDon-
ald’s flags or American flags from
the Washington Monument or high-
way signs listing the mileage to
womens’ colleges. Many students
may not consider this to be hazing,

  

but the Commonwealth of Virginia

.considers it to be a crime. Many

would not consider these incidents to
be honor violations, but if there is no
honor off campus, then there is no
honor on campus.

Tomaso and IFC President David
Perdue said hazing has been reduced
in recent years, but that does not
mean it is at an acceptable level.

There may not be an acceptable level
of hazing, but I do not agree with Per-
due’s assertion that hazing can be
made “entirely non-existent” in a
few years. Hazing is something that
doesn’t go away. It lurks in every fra-
ternity house basement waiting for
opportunity (strengthened and glori-
fied by the alumni and their tales of
cruel and unusual acts).

Many will agree with Perdue that
there is no really dangerous hazing at
W&L. There were two cadets at Tex-
as A&M who didn’t think it was dan-
gerous to make a freshman do push-
ups. They thought differently after
they were arrested and charged with
his death. I vividly remember hear-
ing the pain in the voice of one frater-
nity member from a western univer-
sity as he told me of the death of one
of their pledges in a hazing incident.
Anyone who thinks. ‘It won’t happen
to me,” is just fooling himself.

harmless fun. That’s how they re-
member it, anyway. Students defend
member it, anyway. Students defend
hazing as necessary for building
pledge unity. Some pledges unite
around community service and house
improvement projects. It takes much
more organization and cooperation
among pledges to build a wet bar
than it does to kill a case of Jack
Daniel’s, and the results benefit the
entire house. In a conversation with
Eileen Stevens, the founder of the
anti-hazing organization C.H.U.C.K.
(inspired by the death of her son dur-
ing hazing), she said it best: ‘‘Hazing
is a copout.” It simply takes a lot
more effort to come up with a pledge
program that doesn’t degrade the
pledge and still unifies the pledge
class. The idea of enduring a com-
mon hell is to become really tight as
a group. I have heard pledges from
several fraternities use this excuse.

In the case of a pledge, I believe it is

more of an excuse not to tell a dormi-
tory counselor or dean. I believe that
most freshmen would rather not take
it, but they are afraid of their pledge
brothers and upperclassmen. Upper-
classmen are also fond of using the
excuse that they deserve to have
some ‘“‘fun” since they had to go
through it.

A lot of students, alumni and pos-
sibly even some members of the fac-
ulty and administration will be upset
by such accusations but that’s my
whole idea. Many students may not
believe it, but it is in their best inter-
ests to abolish any and all hazing that
exists at W&L. The Commonwealth
of Virginia has one of the oldest stat-
utes against hazing. Many types of
hazing are felonies in Virginia. If
prison and fines don’t scare you,
think about a multimillion dollar law-
suit against your university and/or
fraternity by the family of a pledge
who dies or is seriously injured. Pre-
serving ‘‘tradition’” could become
very expensive, in more ‘ways than
one.

Amherst College and Colby College
just lost their Greek system, thanks
in large part to hazing. The Ameri-
can International College in Spring-
field, Mass., just abolished fraterniti-
ties after a pledge died last year
while being hazed. Stanford Univer-
sity is considering abolishing frater-
nities. “‘Hazing...and alcohol abuse
are the two greatest threats to
Greeks,’’ Stevens said.

I do not intend to get anyone in
trouble. I do hope that The Phi will
become a forum for some serious dis-
cussion and debate on a very serious
issue. Eileen Stevens told me, ‘‘It of-
ten takes a tragedy or a very serious
incident to bring about change, but
by then it’s too late.’’ It’s not too late
for W&L’s fraternities. But if we
don’t change the system ourselves,
the Board of Trustees may decide on
more drastic changes than we would
ever impose ourselves.

ok ke

Stockburger is a junior drama major
from Little Rock, Ark. He hopes to
become a filmmaker,

 

‘Roeing’

against

the tide

i

MY VIEW .

 

By B. Scott
Tilley

 

This week marks the 13th anniver- ~
sary of Roe v. Wade, the landmark ,
Supreme Court decision that, in ef-
fect, legalized abortion. And how +
could we forget? From “‘liberal”’ out-
cries praising the decision to “‘con-
servative’’ Right-to-Life demonstra- ~
tions and bombings of abortion clin-
ics by extremists, that decision still
looms above our heads as a volatile *
and highly emotional issue. =

The act of abortion, though a sick-
ness in itself, is not the major malady *’
confronting American society today. .
Rather, it is a symptom — a symp-
tom of a disease that has already ~
made us lose our vision of the long-
clung-to American dream, and is
even threatening our nation’s future
by corroding its very foundation and ?
backbone. eG

America has bred an immature so- .
ciety, one in which the key is evasion
of responsibility. As a result, we have
lost our vision of the American »
Dream. ;

We no longer endure; we seek the
most convenient and least painful es-
cape from any situation, regardless _
of principles or consequences. :

The days of the Great American
Frontier once instilled pride in the
hearts of true-blue Americans. Men,
heeding advice to ‘‘Go West,” left for ¥
the wild, unconquered west, inspired
by visions of prosperity and wealth,
while realizing that hard work, sore «
muscles and calloused hands awaited
them. But the hardships were well ”
worth it when the fruits of labor were .
reaped. It is enough to send red,
white and blue shivers up your spine. *

But Americans no longer seek this .
Dream. The individual ideal has been _
replaced by that of the collective. It *
is no longer ‘‘What can I do for socie-
ty and myself?’’ but rather, ‘“‘What
can society do for me?”

The American welfare system re-
flects our society’s degeneration
since the Néw Deal. While it can be
argued that social welfare was neces-
sary at the time, the continuance of
the system has polarized the Ameri-
can mindset into the current belief .
that the government somehow owes
one something, "

The widespread fraud within the
system simply shows the increased _
disregard for the American work eth- ~
ic. Too high of a number of Ameri- ,
cans (and a still increasing number)
are seeking the easy way out — why
work when we can defraud the gov- |
ernment into providing our every
need?

But abortion remains the most bla-
tant manifestation of this depravity. |
Abortion denies the sanctity of the —
very institution we cling to desper-
ately as our own dearest right and
liberty.

We have come to accept that we -
are no longer responsible for our act-
ions; that moral standards have been
lost behind the guises of choices,
freedom and liberty.

Since we do not have to come face —
to face with an aborted child or ac-
cept responsibility for the conse-
quences of our actions, it is easy to
dismiss its rights to those same liber-
ties we claim as our own.

Rhetoric is available abundantly to
defend the pro-abortion stance. One
argument that I absolutely reject is
that the “‘object’’ killed and dismem-
bered is just a fetus, not a living
child.

I’m sorry, but when my wife some-
day becomes pregnant, I am going to
be very excited about my child that
she is carrying, not my fetus.

I consider myself pro-choice. I feel
that the choice should be made,
though, at the time the decision is
made to engage in the activity that
leads to the eventual problem. If the
decision is made to proceed, and
without precautionary measures,
then one should be prepared to ac-
cept the consequences of the actions,
as well.

The convenient way is not neces-
sarily the best way; too often, in fact,
it is blatantly the wrong way. But as
a society, Americans are too imma-
ture to accept that.

Americans must again learn that
responsibilities must be borne, that
evasion is an invitation to failure and
that the American Dream is not
dead. Unless we grow up, we are on
the road to destruction.

7”

ie

~

a

+ at

 

The Ring-tum Phi invites readers
to submit letters to the editors. Let-
ters should be typed or printed neat-
ly double-spaced on one side of a
piece of paper. Letters must be
received by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the
week in which you would like them
torun.

Either leave your letter in The
Ring-tum Phi box, upstairs in the
Student Center, bring it by The Phi
office, Room 200 of the Student Cen-
ter, or mail it to us at P.O. Box 899,
Lexington, Virginia, 24450.

Pn an ee a

 

 
“

 

Jobs

 

©) Continued from Page 1

fits of the economic expansion.’’

According to a survey of 400 big
businesses that the council published
in October, hiring of college
graduates should be up 8 percent this
spring — an 11 percent rise for
engineering graduates and a 4 per-
cent rise for business-related
graduates.

The survey’s “other” category
—non-technical liberal arts
graduates — showed an expected
drop of 1 percent. But that result
might be skewed, Kayser said,
because the council did not survey
small businesses, which normally
hire large numbers of liberal arts
graduates.

The three-year business cycle took
the economy to a low point in the fall,

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Today’s competitive job market re-
quires that students employ creative,
innovative techniques in their job
searches, in addition to the more con-
ventional, tried-and-true techniques.

That’s the view of administration
Professor Roger A. Dean, an expert
on organizational behavior whose
views on career development were
featured last summer in a Forbes
magazine article.

One of the first steps in looking for
a job, Dean said during an interview
this week, is to evaluate yourself.
The student should think about his
own individual personality and ambi-
tions. Among things to consider are
whether he is comfortable in a ‘‘stab-
in-the-back’’ environment or in one
that relies heavily on interpersonal
relationships. In addition, during his
interview, the applicant should ask
questions about the firm’s day-to-day
environment.

The big firms are looking for a

but Kayser said the economy is back
in full swing.

“The leveling off we experienced in
the fall has turned out to be just a
leveling off,’’ she said, so businesses
shouldn't be affected by it.

Nick Markham, employment man-
ager for Leggett’s Department
Stores Inc., said he does not expect a
decline in management hiring this
year for his company.

“It really depends on what we do in
terms of new store openings,’ Mark-
ham said. He added that he expects
one or two new stores to open this
year.

“The best we can tell is yes, it
seems like it will be a good employ-
ment year,’’ he said.

Joyce C. Perl, the director of ex-
ecutive placement for Hecht’s De-
partment Stores Inc., said she ex-
pects another strong hiring year be-
cause she expects another strong
business year.

‘We have been pretty. consistent

  

PROFESSOR ROGER DEAN
Warns against ‘‘reality shock”’

varied range of qualities in potential
employees, Dean said. Many firms
rely somewhat on the technical
abilities of an applicant, such as his
grade point average and the type of
accounting program he graduated
from.

On the other hand, Dean mentioned
a national managing partner who
pointed out, ‘‘What we look for are

would like to let her customers know that she is now

cutting hair at the Beauty Boutique — next to The Palms.

Drop by or call
463-2422

  
 

TICKETS:

$6.00 AT DOOR
$5.00 IN ADVANCE
(at W&L Bookstore)

 

 

 

because we are growing and expand-
ing,”’ Perl said. ‘‘We’ve got a five-
year plan, with five stores opening
—an average of one a year.”’

Hecht’s hires about 60 people from
college each year and recruits those
Students from 10 colleges, one of
which is W&L, Perl said. Last year,
Hecht’s hired 11 W&L graduates for
management positions.

Perl was in Lexington this week in-
terviewing prospective employees
through the placement program run
by Associate Dean of Students Mich-
ael A. Cappeto.

The program draws potential em-
ployers to Lexington to hold job-hunt-
ing workshops and to interview stu-
dents. Cappeto helps students define
their career goals and sets them on
the job-hunting path.

Some of the advice Cappeto gives is
to go further than just sending out
resumes and hoping to get inter-
views. Instead, he tells students to go
on “informational interviews.’’ In

rich, preppy kids who've got a good
education,”’ noting their social skills
as well as family contacts that could
be beneficial to the firm.

Knowing what a big firm is looking
for, the question ‘‘What turns the big
firm on?”’ arises. In many cases it is
appearance.

Dean said that studies have shown
that during campus interviews, in the
first 30 seconds, the interviewer
decides whether or not he likes the
applicant, and the first four minutes
determine whether the applicant is to
be granted a second interview.

“About the only thing (the inter-
viewer) learned in that short period
of time,’’ Dean said, ‘tis how you
dressed, how you shook hands — did
you look nice?”’

What, then, turns an interviewer
off? Things such as dressing im-
properly, portraying overconfidence
and having few or no questions for
the interviewer can count against an
applicant. ‘“‘One negative will
outweigh a_ thousand positives,”’
Dean said.

Something that all accounting firm

these, students can meet not neces-
sarily prospective employers, but
people in their chosen field and learn
what the field is like and what job
openings are available

This approach is more successful
than one might expect, Cappeto said,
because 80 percent of all available
positions are not advertised, but are
filled by word of mouth.

Cappeto said he isn’t sure what this
year’s job market is going to be like.

“It’s too early in the season to say
if it’s a good or a bad year out there,”
he said.

Last year the job market was good
to W&L students, Cappeto said. Out
of last year’s graduating class, only
two students who were actively look-
ing for jobs had not been hired by
September, according to a survey he
conducted.

“I don’t have any reason to think
this year will be any different, but I
can’t be sure.”’

‘Reality shock’: Dean gives inside tips

applicants must remember, Dean
said, is that while the applicant is try-
ing to look good, the firm also is try-
ing to present a good image. These
firms are businesses competing with
each other to hire the best personnel.
This sometimes leads to a firm’s giv-
ing special treatment to an applicant
to woo him into accepting an offer on-
ly later to treat him in the same man-
ner as the other hirees on the same
level.

This sudden change from expecta-
tion to reality is termed by Dean as
“reality shock.”’

A common “reality shock”’ scenar-
io is one in which the applicant is
flown in by special jet and put up in
the best hotel during his interview so
that he believes the typical accoun-
tant, once hired, lives this way.

How can a person avoid ‘“‘reality
shock’’? Ask questions, Dean said.
Ask the employees hired two or three
years ago how they feel about their
progress and future. Ask the in-
terviewer, ‘“‘Where will I be in two
years?” And then ask yourself, ‘‘Is
this situation right with me?”’

Valley True Value Hardware

Tete Vale

HARD

E. Nelson St.

ur See

 

  

 

 

 

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

» Mon. - Sat, 830 -6:00 =
Sun. 1-5 :

 

WITH THEIR SPECIAL GUESTS
THE

The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1985, Page 3

Library

() Continued from Page 1

 

last school year.

The library's 1983-84 annual report
Stated that an inventory last summer
found that 1,200 books had been lost
since the last inventory in 1980,
whereas an average of 1,000 volumes
a year were missing before the move
to the new library in 1979.

“We believe this dramatic decline
in lossage occurred because of the
twenty-four hour access to the collec-
tions,’’ the report stated. ‘‘There is
no doubt that student tensions in us-
ing the library have been lessened by
the 24-hour open-door policy.’’

“It is the single most popular libra-
ry service with the student body,”
the report says. That sentence is un-
derlined.

At Tuesday’s EC meeting, junior
representative Patrick Hayden said
Cecil had asked one of his classes for

student opinion on closing the library
at night ‘‘before he expressed an opi-
nion of his own.”

Hayden said he was ‘“‘under the im-
pression” that University President
John D. Wilson had recommended
looking into closing the library from 1
a.m. to 8 a.m. because it would save
$24,000.

Hayden said Wilson had told him
“not to get up in arms about this’’
—that the committee was just going
to look into it.

EC Secretary Sam Dalton recom-
mended that the EC not put the dis-
cussion in the minutes as it might im-
ply the committee was accusing Wil-
son of something that ‘‘could be pure-
ly speculation or rumor.”

After some discussion, it was de-
cided that because the issue had been
discussed and is of student concern,
it should be included in the minutes.

Cecil said he ‘‘would like to have
students participate”’ in the study of
library hours.

Staff Reporter Steven
contributed to this story.

Pockrass

Coming up: 30 super hours

The 1985 Muscular Dystrophy Su-
perdance, scheduled to begin Friday,
Feb. 1, ‘‘is shaping up to be the most
exciting and most successful ever,”’
according to chairman Chris Wil-
liams.

The event begins in the student act-
ivities pavilion Friday at 8 p.m. with
the band Dirty Secrets, followed by
the Voltage Brothers. On Saturday
night, the Waller Family will open
and the Cruis-o-matics will close the
dance at 2 a.m. Sunday.

Tickets for the weekend cost $6 and
may be purchased in advance.

The steering committee has set a
goal of raising $30,000 and hopes to
attract more than 200 dancers.

“The fraternities have been a great
help this year, especially in urging

their pledge classes to dance,’’ said
Williams, noting that five or six fra-
ternities are requiring their pledges
todance.

The steering committee has also
been recruiting dancers from area
women’s colleges and at James Mad-
ison University and Radford Univ-
ersity. Virginia Military Institute
also will have participants.

In the last two weeks, the commit-
tee has conducted ‘‘slave auctions”’
at Mary Baldwin College and Hollins
College by raffling off Washington
and Lee flesh. $1,500 was raised.

During the 30-hour Superdance,
Ring-tum Phi sports editor Mike Sta-
chura and photography editor Cotton
Puryear will stage a radio marathon
on WLUR-FM (91.5 FM).

 

 

115 S. Main Street

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

463-2742

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

J SHERIDAN
R. SHERIDAN

 

  

STRANGERS
FRIDAY, JANUARY 25

8:30 pm
AT THE

STUDENT ACTIVITIES PAVILION

 

PROPER ID REQUIRED

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

11 W. Nelson St.
463-2022

Watches and Jewelry Repairs
Gifts for Ali Occasions

We have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD

PRESENTS

 
        
      
    

  
    
   
    
      

   

 
 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1985

Trustees approve freshman housing plan

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
Staff Reporter

The Board of Trustees last
weekend adopted the recommenda-
tion of the Coeducation Steering
Committee regarding the ‘most
practical and most reasonable’
freshman housing plan for 1985-86,
according to the committee’s chair-
woman.

Next year, women in the freshman
class will be housed on the second
and third floors of Davis Dormitory,
on the second floor of Gilliam Dor-
mitory and on the south wing of Gil-

liam’s third floor.
Women also will be housed in the

archway section of Graham-Lees
Dormitory, which will be sealed off
from the east and west wings so that
they are guaranteed ‘“‘security, pri-
vacy and controlled access,” accord-
ing to the report.

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson said that the
third draft of the report was com-
pleted by the subcommittee known as
Immediate Renovations, chaired by
H. Robert Huntley, dean of freshmen.

“In arriving at its recommenda-
tion,’ the report states, ‘“‘the Com-
mittee was guided by three major
concerns: security, successful as-
similation of women, and privacy.”

Simpson, who heads the coeduca-
tion committee, said the recommen-

Huntley gets warm reception on a cold day

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Staff Reporter

 

When he stepped down as
Washington and Lee president two
years ago, Robert E.R. Huntley re-
called Monday, he said he would re-
turn to W&L to speak again only on a
“cold day in paradise.”

That’s exactly the kind of weather
that greeted Huntley, now an execu-
tive with Best Products Co. Inc., in
Richmond, when he addressed the
114th annual Founders’ Day Convo-
cation in Lee Chapel, as tempera-
tures dipped way below the freezing
mark.

Huntley said that Founders’ Day
was the perfect time to reminisce
about the rich history of the Universi-
ty, and his speech was filled with vig-
nettes from the pages of W&L his-
tory.

The cold weather that greeted
Huntley probably also took away
from the size of the crowd that heard
his speech, according to Frank A.
Parsons, executive assistant to the
president.

Even so, Parsons said he was
pleased with the size of the crowd this
year. Huntley received a standing

ovation.
The ceremonies this year were

moved from Evans Dining Hall to
Lee Chapel, giving the appearance of
a “packed house,” Parsons said.

This year’s crowd was larger than
last year’s, though, said Parsons,
who attributed the increase to better
publicity and more interest on the
part of students in the traditions
behind Washington and Lee.

After Huntley’s speech,

the
Washington and Lee chapter of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, a national leader-
ship fraternity, initiated 28 W&L stu-
dents as well as two alumni and two

dation also was based on “the over-
riding considerations that were most
practical and most reasonable.”

University officials are planning
for a freshman class of about 400, be-
tween 80 and 100 of which will be wo-
men.

One of the first suggestions for
housing women, according to Simp-
son, was to turn Gilliam into a female
dormitory. However, several pro-
blems accompanied this suggestion.

With an increase of 30 in the fresh-
man class, ‘‘doubling up” of some
single rooms will be necessary to
accommodate the students.

“Turning Gilliam into a women’s
dorm exclusively would mean that
men in the other two dorms will have
to bear the entire burden of the con-
version of extant singles into double
rooms to come up with the requisite
thirty beds for the larger freshman
class [since] Gilliam singles are, by
far, the smallest singles,” the report
states.

In addition, the Admissions Office
reports that parents of visiting appli-
cants have expressed their approval
of male ‘buffer zones” in dormitor-
ies where their daughters will be
housed.

Housing men on the ground and
first floors of the dormitories will
limit ‘‘peeping tom and other type
activity,”’ University President John
D. Wilson said.

friends of the University.

The two alumni initiates were An-
drew S. Baur, a 1937 graduate and an
industrial real estate developer in St.
Louis; and Evan J. Kemp Jr., a 1959
graduate and executive director of
the Disability Rights Center.

The friends of the University ini-
tiated were David T. Johnson, an in-
surance executive in Pensacola,
Fla., and G. Otis Mead, a Lexington
real estate developer.

Of the 28 W&L students initiated,
six were from the W&L Law School,

‘Anything that has Lee’s name is sacred’

of Lexington or county of Rockbridge without having a
relationship with the two colleges.”

Mead said he handles the rentals for a substantial
number of W&L students, and that he misses the daily
contact he had with students before his firm, Mead
Associates, became so large.

“Lexington, Virginia, has been a college town since
before the town was even chartered,”’ he said. ‘‘The two
schools and the town have grown together.

“If you're going to live in Lexington, it’s a foregone
conclusion that you’re going to live in a college town.
Colleges have students. Students are 18-to 22-year-old
people (Notice I said ‘people.’) They are in general go-
ing to act like 18-to 22-year-old-people do,’’ Mead con-

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Chief Editor

One of the four honorary members initiated into
Omicron Delta Kappa on Monday was unable to attend
the ceremony. His wife graciously stood in for him
when he was recognized during Founders’ Day in Lee

Chapel.

Lexington real estate developer G. Otis Mead Ill was
not in town Monday morning because of.<a project
that he says has consumed 98 percent of his time for the
last year— the effort to locate the proposed Virginia
Horse Center (known in stuffier terms as the ‘Virginia
Equine Center’’) in Rockbridge County.

Mead testified Monday before the state senate’s
agriculture committee shortly before it cast a crucial
vote in the lengthy process of finalizing the center’s

location.

Mead, who chairs the local committee working to
bring the horse center here, says he has to monitor
every move of the state legislature as his project nears
victory (‘‘I’m like an expectant father’), and Monday
was one of the days his presence was required at the
General Assembly, ‘‘as much as I wanted to be here and
as honored and as humbled as I was’’ by the ODK recog-

nition.

“T’ve always been very sensitive to the obvious im-
portance of the universities to the community and vice
versa,”’ he said. ‘‘W&L and VMI are our industries, if
you will. It’s awfully hard to be a part of the whole city

Superdance
SuperRock !!!

The MDA Superdance and WLUR-FM
combine to bring you
W&L’s Biggest Party Feb. 1,2,3,
while the dancers are dancing,
listen to WLUR-FM for a
30 Hour All-Rock’Quest Extravaganza.

Each of the women’s halls will be
restricted by a locked door, accord-
ing to the report.

“You've got to do it,’’ Simpson
said. ‘‘It’s for security.”

‘Women are more sensitive to a
sense of security,’’ she added.
“That’s the way society perceives
people.”’

One other concern of the commit-
tee was for the ‘‘successful assimila-
tion of women into the undergraduate
college.”

Besides relying on the judgments
of other universities that housing
men and women separately creates a
sense of estrangement, the commit-
tee also used the results of psycholo-
gical studies, such as one conducted
by Stoney Brook.

The Stoney Brook study suggests
that friendships among freshmen are
more likely to develop between resi-
dents either on the same hall or on
those immediately above or below.
Dating, however, occurs less fre-
quently between residents of the
same dormitory than between those
of different dormitories.

A questionnaire sent to Early Deci-
sion candidates showed that 11 per-
cent of the females and 57 percent of
the males preferred single-sex
dorms.

Also 83 percent of the females and
43 percent of the males indicated that
they preferred coed housing.

16 were from the senior class and six
were from the junior class.

The third-year law students were
Richard B. Earles, Charles F. Mar-
tel, Joseph R. Newell, M. Susan Pal-
mer, John J. Sicilian and Lynn Boep-
ple Su.

The seniors initiated were Ian G.
Banwell, Roger T. Day, John A. Di
Duro, Jeffrey D. Dixon, Harry W.
Golliday, Glen 0. Jackson, Todd D.
Jones, Kevin H. Kelley, Ken L.
Moles, Clarke H. Morledge, K. Greg

tinued.

 

That’s 91.5 FM

Lexington’s Listening Alternative

 

en ee eee eee ee ae ee

fa itil

Help MD out by making a donation
every time you make a song request.

 

=
a i a a aa Oar I OI OI a OO a OO OO EE

et eel
a

 

    

Make a $1 donation, we'll play your request.

Make a $2 donation, we’ll dedicate that request
to your favorite girl, guy or political organization.

Simpson said that responses on the
questionnaires showed that many

sions on a desire for security.

One incoming freshman indicated

male students based their decisions __ that his decision on coed housing was

on a desire for privacy while a major-
ity of the women based their deci-

influenced by his mother, Simpson
said.

The Coeducation committee event-

ually will release its recommenda-
tions on sororities, security and light-
ing, which Simpson said is ‘in the

works’”’

 

Tuition

© Continued from Page 1
grants to needy students during the
next year.

That figure, Epley said, is the price
of having a student body of different
backgrounds.

This year’s budget includes $1.78
million for grants. Next year’s in-
crease will be approximately 9.2 per-

cent.
Also at the Board of Trustees

meeting, the Planning and Develop-
ment Committee announced the
University’s acceptance of a $250,000
gift for the restoration and remodel-
ing of 6 University Place.

The house, one of four built on the
campus in 1842, will be used to ac-
commodate distinguished professors
and guests of the University.

Stewart and Joella Morris of
Houston made the gift to the Univer-
sity, and the structure will be named
“The Morris House”’ in their honor.

According to President Wilson, the
board also approved architect’s
plans to remodel 32 University Place.

 

This building may become the new
offices for admissions and financial
aid.

Also, before beginning fund raising
for the construction of a new theater,

Student tax still $100 =

smaller committees, EC Vice Presi-

Unlike previous years, there will
be no increase in the 1985-86 student
activities fee, which will remain at
$100, Executive Committee Presi-
dent Cole Dawson said this week.

“Everyone’s being much more
financially responsible (than in the
past),” said Dawson, adding that a
projected surplus for this year
discouraged an increase.

The tax normally is raised annual-
ly to adjust for inflation, with an ad-
ditional charge every four years to
help finance the Mock Convention,
Dawson said.

This year’s EC decided by an infor-
mal hand vote to raise the tax only to
account for inflation. Following last
year’s cost overruns by the Student
Activities Board, Contact and some

“On the whole, they’re good 18- to 22-year-old people
— very good. But in every segment of our society, you
have what I call the ‘ten-percenters’ — the bad apples
that make the others look just as bad....
ing through a good period in the general level of stu-
dents’ respect for themselves and for others.”

Mead said that among the reasons for his fondness
for W&L is the fact that ‘“‘coming from good Southern
blood as I do, anything that has Robert E. Lee’s name
attached to it is sacred.’’ Also, Mead said he is ‘‘a die-
hard liberal artist’? who believes a broader education
should precede a student’s entry into a speciality.

“T just like to be involved,” Mead said of his com-
munity activities. ‘‘I like to have a hand in my own
destiny. I think it would be a real bore in life just to go
along for the ride.”’

Niles, G. Bruce Potter, Michael M.
Shelton, James R. Spatig, Charles W.
Stern and Mark E. Sullivan.

The juniors initiated were Patrick
L. Hayden, Lee M. Hollis, Peter J.
lerardi Jr., James Y. Kerr II, David
D. Lewis and Nelson R. Patterson.

ODK was founded at Washington
and Lee in 1914 by three undergrad-
uate students. Monday’s ceremony
was attended by one of those foun-
ders, former W&L politics Professor
Rupert N. Latture. Latture celebrat-
ed his 93rd birthday Friday.

 

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

 

A group of four student leaders
Tuesday proposed that the Interfra-
ternity Council compromise on the
sweeping recommendations of last
year’s Ad Hoc Committee on Frater-
nity Affairs.

The committee, chaired by English
professor John M. Evans, presented
its 1ll-page report to University
President John D. Wilson in March
after five months of work.

The compromise presented Tues-
day lists specific concessions to be
made by the fraternities and by the
Student Affairs Committee, a stu-
dent-faculty committee that ‘“‘has
complete authority for all non-curri-
cular matters affecting student life
at the University.”

The compromise was worked out
by four Executive Committee mem-
bers—vice president James White,
secretary Sam Dalton, and sopho-
more representatives Andrew Caru-
thers and Shayam Menon. But all
emphasized that they were appear-
ing as fraternity members and not in
their official capacity.

“Realistically, there have been
some problems with the fraterni-
ties,” White said. ‘‘These rules are a
middle ground.”’

“Hopefully if the fraternity system
stays together as an entity rather
than working as individual houses,
wecan be heard,” Caruthers said.

‘“‘We hope that by showing we will

Citizen concerned
about new housing

potential negative side-effects of a

I think we’re go-

 

IFC hears request -
for a compromise

on fraternity rules

By ANDY HOPPES
Staff Reporter

 

At least one resident of the
neighborhood near the proposed site
for the new dormitory has expressed
concern about the impact of the
structure.

David B. Dickens, an associate
professor of German at Washington
and Lee who lives across Nelson
Street from the proposed dormitory,
said either he or his wife was plan-
ning to attend today’s Lexington
Planning Commission hearing on the
proposal.

W&L has asked the city to rezone
the area between Lee, Nelson and
Washington streets to allow construc-
tion of the dormitory.

Dickens said that at this point he
and his wife ‘‘are concerned’’ about
some of the effects a new dormitory
would have on the area.

“A new dormitory is certainly go-
ing to add noise. Particularly on the
weekends it can be objectionable,”
Dickens said.

Dickens also cited the possibility of
additional] litter from students in the
new dormitory, an increase in the
already heavy traffic on Nelson
Street and the loss of privacy as

new dormitory.

None of his neighbors has discuss-
ed any concerns regarding a new dor-
mitory with him, and there seems to
be ‘‘no concerted effort’”’ by anyone
in. the neighborhood to oppose the
dormitory, Dickens said.

Frank Parsons, assistant to
University President John D. Wilson,
said he has received some calls from
people asking about the kind of
buildings the University would erect
in the rezoned area. Parsons said he
assured the callers that any buildings
put up would be of a nature similar to
existing dormitories.

Many other college towns have in-
stitutional zones that give univer-
sities flexibility to expand, but in
Lexington people have not believed
that an institutional zone was
necessary, Parsons said, As a result,
Parsons said, when the University

built the Woods Creek Apartments, it
was probably in violation of the zon-
ing ordinances, although the Univer-
sity was granted a building permit.

This time, when the University re-
quested a building permit for a dor-
mitory, it was told that it would be il-
legal to build a dormitory unless the
zoning law were changed, Parsons
explained.

 

Wm. L. Hess, Jr.
|_Owner

 

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China
and Crystal

Fallin love with Kremetz

(703) 463-2833
121 S. Main St.

 

Lexington, Virginia 24450 |

 

Wilson said, the University needs a
“major six figure gift to start us off.’’

Discussions on the proposal for a i

new theater are scheduled for the
May meeting of the board.

dent James White has done an ex- . | |

cellent job of making this a positive .

according to.

year financially,
Dawson.

“This will more than make up for

inflation,”’ so Dawson did not ask the *. -

EC to vote for a formal increase. Ac- .
cording to the rules, a formal vote is ° .

not needed unless the amount of the .’.

tax is to be altered, he said.

Dawson presented his recommen- 7

dations to the Board of Trustees,

which met in Atlanta last weekend to”

discuss tuition and coeducation.

The current student tax is $75 plus iz i

$25 for the student activities pavilion.

— By Steven Pockrass 1.

concede on some things, we can re-
concile the differences between fra-
ternities and the Hill,’ he continued.
“It’s a two-way street, however.”

Under ‘‘major concessions” for the
fraternities, the presentation stated
that four house officers should be re-
quired to live in the house and said
the IFC should fine houses $50 if their
yards are not clean by 9 a.m. on
weekend mornings,

A number of additional specific
concessions were listed. In a sep-
arate set of ‘additional recommen-
dations,” the four proposed that each
fraternity be limited to five Wednes-
day night parties at their house each
term.

Under suggested concessions for
the SAC, the students asked that the
Ad Hoc recommendation that four
juniors or seniors be required to live
in each house not be implemented.

They also opposed a recommenda-
tion that houses failing to maintain a
membership of at least 40 members
for two consecutive years should

"BD

¢

r
2
¥
©

&

4

*

‘

have their University recognition ~

withdrawn automatically.

Caruthers said this minimum level
would force many houses into ‘an’
open-bid process.”’

“I think a fraternity should select. °
members with similar interests .
rather than just out of financial.

necessity,” he said.
In an IFC discussion of the Ad Hoc.’

recommendations (frequently called ”
“the Evans report’’), the minimum

4

4

v

membership level and the require-. ‘
ment that four upperclassmen live in '

the house came under sharp attack.
Most of the other recommenda-
tions that were discussed, though:
received little opposition. Phi Kappa j,
Sigma president Jim Cobb, for exam- *
ple, referred to many of the propo-

=
.
“

sals as ‘‘common sense recommen-~~
dations.” x

John Lewis of Phi Kappa Psi, on~
the other hand, voiced frustration x

that the IFC has less control than

does the SAC over which of thé”

recommendations will be adopted.

‘‘Basically, since the SAC can over-"

ride all these decisions, we're talking.

‘Communist Manifesto’ here,” he’

said.

Students have five reprenentaiioes :
on the 10-member SAC: student body-"
President Cole Dawson, IFC Presi::'
dent David Perdue, Student Control’

Committee chairman Darby Brower,

head dormitory counselor Bob Toma-::
so and Student Bar Association Pree’

ident John Sicilian.

Dan N. Murphy, associate dean of:

students for fraternity affairs, was
among those at Tuesday’s meeting:
who opposed what some are calling
the ‘40 or bust” rule.

“Personally, I think it’s inappro- :
priate to tie the existence of a frater- ©

nity to an arbitrary number,”’ Mur-

phy said as the room erupted with ap- -

plause.

“If a fraternity is going to die, let it _

die — don’t baby it,’’ Lewis said.
Perdue said he thought the com-
mittee had made its proposal to re-
quire four upperclassmen in a house
because ‘‘they think this will provide
more leadership for the house.”’

Sigma Alpha Epsilon president '

Gray Sanders said he doubted that
would be the result. ‘‘A lot of people
don’t want to live in the house again,
and I think we would lose a lot of good
people in the leadership positions,”’
he said.

“‘T agree with their goal, but exact-

ly the opposite will occur,’’ Sanders -

continued. ‘‘Some of the best guys
won't want todoit.”

Jamie Berger of Phi Kappa Psi al-
s0 opposed the requirement. “Maybe

the problem is that we don’t want the ’

system changed,” he said.
=e

ow

_

The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1985, Page 5

 

 

Senior’s fall term oriented toward Japanese studies

 

‘y CHRIS MUNSEY
itaff Reporter

 

Senior Tim Mulreany and some Japanese
riends had just caught the last train home
ite one night this fall when a Japanese

businessman staggered drunkenly over to
heir seat.

“He was yelling that he had studied Eng-
lish for many years, and insisted that he
could speak English better than I could,”
Mulreany recalled. ‘‘His friends came up,
apologized and carted him away.”

' This is just one of the many cross-cultur-
al experiences Mulreany enjoyed during
his four-month stay in Japan this fall.

* Mulreany, a senior from Potomac, Md.,
Spent the semester at Kansai University as
a part of the Homestay Program.

« “My family was a traditional Japanese
family, the children were very respectful of
tne parents, and always listened to them,
there was never much argument about any-
thing.” he said.

Mulreany described his first few weeks in
Japan as ‘‘weird,” because, he noted,
everything seemed a lot different from
American life. He said that when he was

’ Paeeting people he tried not to do anything

wrong. For example, he said he had to be
careful of how he addressed people, and
tried to appear not to be too familiar.
, Mulreany said he decided to participate
in the exchange program with Kansai Univ-
ersity after studying East Asian history at
&L.
Re thought I could get a lot more out of it

 

 

TIM MULREANY

by learning about it firsthand. I got a better
feeling for the country than by just studying
it here,’ Mulreany said, and his parents
were supportive, although his father had
wanted him to go to Europe. Mulreany stay-
ed in Japan from August through Decem-
ber.

Mulreany studied Japanese literature
and art in Japan and said he enjoyed the op-
portunity to see Japanese art at the Imper-
ial Museum and various temples. He also
studied the Japanese language, which he
described as intense.

Mulreany’s weekends were spent visiting
various Japanese cities, such as Kyoto and
Osaka, and going to movies and discos,
which are very popular in Japan. The social
life of many of the Japanese students Mul-
reany met revolved around various clubs,
some of which met for three hours a day six

 

days a week.

A common stereotype Mulreany said he
encounters in America about Japan is the
widespread idea that Japanese cities are
overcrowded and dirty. ‘‘It is crowded,”’ he
said, ‘‘but the cities are a lot cleaner than
ours, there are always people cleaning up.’’

Crime, regarded as a serious problem in
America, is virtually nonexistent in Japan,
Mulreany said.

“I'd say it’s the safest country in the
world,” he added. ‘‘It has to do with the way
the society is set up, there is a lot more re-
spect, kids are under better control. Police-
men in Japan patrol a certain area, and
deal with people on a much more personal
level. I never felt unsafe.”

Mulreany described Japanese society as
being different from America's. “Their
society is much more ordered,” he said.
“There are different forms of polite speech
to use depending on who you are talking to.
When a Japanese employee talks to his
boss, he uses an honorific form of address.
You often try to determine another person’s
position by the way people talk to him. They
are very conscious of place.”’

Mulreany explained that traditional
Japanese society was rigidly stratified,
with a class of Samurai at the top and pea-
sants at the bottom. ‘‘I got the feeling that
it’s still like that, although it’s changed a
great deal,’’ he added.

Japanese religious life revolves around
Shintoism and Buddhism, and Mulreany
said most people in Japan don’t get to ser-
vices regularly. The religion of Shinto in-
volves worship of native deities, with many

regions having a local patron god. The
practice of ancestor worship came about
with the rise of nationalism in the 1930s,
prior to World War II.

“After the war, the personal shrines were
downplayed, in an attempt to prevent that
type of nationalism,’’ said Mulreany, who
noted that the political system of today’s
Japan was formed after World War II.

“After 1945, Japan received a new con-
Stitution,” he added. ‘‘Women were given
the right to vote. Before, a group of ad-
visors had counseled the emperor, and he
issued edicts based on their advice. Even
today; the emperor is still very much re-
spected. ‘Hirohito’ is the wrong name. My
homestay father explained that ‘Tenno’ is

e correct name, meaning ‘heavenly
king.’ ’’

Japan now has a democratic Parliamen-
tary system, and Mulreany said Japanese
politics witness more give-and-take than
American politics, partly because active
political parties on both poles of the ideo-
logical spectrum possess seats in the Jap-
anese parliament.

“The right wing and the left wing are
very sharply split, but each still is part of
the government,”’ he said. The Liberal De-
mocratic Party (conservative) has the
most seats in the parliament.

Mulreany said he thought many of the
Japanese people he met admire the United
States, but that some resent the presence of
nuclear weapons aboard American naval
ships, which dock at naval bases located in
Japan.

Mulreany lived in a region called the

Kansai Plain, the cultural center of Japan.
The plain is on the island of Honshu, where
many of the 'erce Japanese cities are situ-
ated.

The ee language has different re-

a! dialects, and Mulreany said he had a
tough time communicating with his Home-
stay father and needed his Homestay moth-
er to interpret the father’s words into stan-
dard Japanese. Mulreany said that many of
the people he met who spoke the predomi-
nant dialect joked about the way other Jap-
anese spoke.

After he came back from Japan, Mulrea-
ny said, he appreciated certain things
about American life much more. ‘‘I appre-
ciate things like open spaces, the way
things are a lot cheaper in America and the
abundance of everything,”’ he said.

Mulreany plans to earn a degree in East
Asian Studies and western history from
Washington and Lee. Afterward, he may go
to law school, work in the Foreign Service
and possibly do something with his first-
hand experience with the Japanese lan-
guage and culture.

The exchange program Mulreany partic-
ipated in with Kansai University has been
in existence since last January. Two stu-
dents went this fall, and two more are going
at the end of January.

Professor Roger B. Jeans, chairman of
the East Asian Studies Committee, said
that interested students should see him in
Newcomb 34A. A grade point average of 2.5
is needed for participation in the program,
and Jeans recommends background study
in Japanese language and history.

ABC OKs new pavilion policy

 

 

or one of the area women’s colleges

By JIM STRADER must be presented at the door.
Staff Reporter *Others attending must be accom-
panied by a W&L student.

Saying that the Alcoholic Beverage

Control Board is ‘‘more than willing
§o work’’ with Washington and Lee
administration and student represen-
tatives, ABC agent Roger Stevens
added that University guidelines for
the student activities pavilion appear
to be a satisfactory remedy to the
problems experienced there last
month.
“ In an interview this week, Stevens,
who is based in Staunton, character-
ized his dealings with W&L as a
“good working relationship.’ The
problems concerning alcohol that
surfaced after December’s White
Animals/Producers concert led to a
meeting between Stevens and W&L
representatives; including Associate
Dean of Students Michael A. Cappeto
and members of the Student Activi-
ties Board. Stevens said the meeting
was ‘‘very good, very open,” and
from this meeting the W&L represen-
tatives submitted a list of guidelines
for future pavilion policy.-

Stevens said his and the ABC's
main concern was the lack of ade-
quate supervision at the pavilion
functions. He added that because stu-
dents aren’t part receptive to faculty
supervision and because students of-
ten have difficulty policing other stu-
dents, a new system was needed.

Stevens also said that Dean of Stu-

» dents Lewis G. John felt W&L need-

ed to take some responsibility for the
new pavilion because it is on school
property.

Some of the guidelines for the pavi-
ion submitted to the ABC are as fol-
lows:

: An identification card from W&L

eLegal identification is required
for anyone wishing to purchase alco-
hol. According to state law, anyone
under 19 years of age will not be serv-
ed.

¢People who are perceived to be in-
toxicated will not be served.

¢People arriving already intoxicat-
ed might not be admitted.

The major thrust of these quide-
lines, Stevens said, is that students
should use common sense and exer-
cise sober judgment.

The ABC was lenient in its treat-
ment of Washington and Lee in the
December episode, Stevens indicat-
ed.

“We could have put our foot
down,”’ he said. ‘‘There were enough
violations (at the December concert)
tocall a hearing.”

Such a hearing would involve an in-
vestigation of violations observed by
ABC agents at the concert. This could
result in the denial of future alcohol
licenses for the SAB at the pavilion.

In addition, Stevens said, the ABC
could require that the SAB apply for
alcohol licenses a full month in ad-
vance of a planned event. The appro-
val process for these permits is
“tricky,’’ he said, and applications
can be rejected by several officials
for any number of reasons.

The ABC informed the SAB of these
problems and warned officials of pro-

hol license also receives a sheet out-
lining ABC rules. Stevens emphasiz-
ed that along with the state laws, the
most important thing for groups to
remember is to exercise common
sense and sober judgment.

Fraternities, although bound by
the same state regulations are handl-
ed in a different way by the ABC.
Parties at fraternity houses are re-
garded as private functions, and the
ABC usually assumes that a fraterni-
ty is abiding by the law unless it
receives a complaint. Reports from
local police, parents of Lexington
High School students and others have
resulted in ABC investigations, Ste-
vens said.

Stevens clarified the ABC’s posi-
tion by saying that agents may check
parties on a random basis; just be-
cause there has been no complaint
does not exclude a fraternity from an
“unannounced visit.”

Generally, if a fraternity keeps
people from getting ‘drunk as hoot
owls” and involving police, and pre-
vents those who do drink from driv-
ing, it will be in good shape, Stevens
said.

Fraternities can bring trouble on
themselves by charging admission to
a party and serving alcohol, Stevens
said. This constitutes a misdemeanor
— selling alcohol without a license.

Serving minors can also cause pro-
blems for fraternities, Stevens add-
ed. Although it is the individual min-
or whois guilty of underage drinking,
such action might cause the ABC to

blems they could face. From there, crack down ona fraternity.
Stevens said, the SAB re-evaluated Overall, Stevens said, he is opti-
the situation and came up with the _ mistic about his dealings with W&L.

guidelines for the pavilion.
Regulations regarding alcohol are

fairly straightforward, and anyone

who applies for and receives an alco-

EC may change some

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Staff Reporter

 

" ‘The Executive Committee Monday
night introduced a revised set of
voting regulations and voted funds to
establish a campus scientific review.
Sophomore representative Andrew
Caruthers, who presented the regula-
‘tions, said they would transfer much
sof the direct authority over ad-
_ ministering elections from the EC to
"the Voting Regulations Board, an
EC-appointed body.
‘The proposed regulations would

‘provide for a VRB ‘“‘rule-setting”’

meeting at least one week before
petitions are due. Attendance is a

* prerequisite to running for office.

A minimum of two polling places
has been retained in the proposed
‘rules, but a maximum of five has

 

been deleted. Nu new maximum has
been set.

The VRB will meet the night after
an election in order to address any
student complaints, Caruthers said.
Any VRB decision may be appealed
tothe EC.

In September 1984, freshman class
presidential candidate Steve Roth
charged that only one poll, located in
the Graham-Lees quad, was open
during the class elections. The EC
voted to uphold the election results.
There was a second polling place in
the Law School, although no fresh-
man ballots were placed there.

In October 1983, the EC had to void
the results of an election when one
poll was left unmanned. According to
the rules, polls must be manned at all
times. The EC considered but re-
jected the idea of paying poll watch-

ers.

 

   

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

 

Although no agents attended last
weekend’s pavilion concerts, Stevens
said that the guidelines submitted to
the ABC were satisfactory.

 

By TED BYRD
Staff Reporter

Restoration of The Willson-
Walker House, formerly the loca-
tion of the White Columns Restau-
rant, was begun in October, anda
restaurant there is expected to be
completed by spring, according to
the owner, Mrs. Jo Griswold.

The new restaurant will contain
two dining sections on the down-
stairs level and an upstairs room
that can be reserved for banquets
and meetings. One kitchen will
serve all diners.

Mrs. Griswold is hoping to find a
chef and manager to operate the
restaurant, but has not decided
who will be hired for these pos-
tions.

The Willson-Walker House will
feature New American cuisine,
which Mrs. Griswold described as
traditional American dishes pre-
pared by an experienced chef
knowledgeable in classical Italian
and French cuisine.

Recently ‘there has been an in-
terest in America of going back to
regional cooking,’ she said, and
cited as examples Cajun, Tex-
Mex, New England Style and
Southern cooking. New American
cuisine involves more complicat-
ed techniques and principles in
preparing dishes than are usually
used in traditional American
cooking. It particularly is char-
acterized by the use of ‘‘the fresh-
est native, local ingredients possi-
ble,” and by paying strict atten-
tion to using only those foods that
are in season. Mrs. Griswold said

 

“ee Sigmar nana er caraca  an ccnto eme ee Taman ee ee rnmec nn re eum

Restaurant to open in spring

 

 

 

By Martin Radvany/The Ring-tum Phi

The former White Columns Inn on Main Street is scheduled to
reopen in the spring as a restaurant featuring New American cuisine.

she also plans to offer wines from
Virginia vineyards and wineries.

Mrs. Griswold plans to decorate
the restaurant in a characteristic
1820-1830s American look. ‘“‘It’s
not going to be a re-creation’”’ of
that era, she said, but she believes
that ‘‘the look will be unique for
this area’’ and that “people will
find this attractive.”

‘‘We have a number of ‘empire’
antiques’’ that will be used in the
restaurant, she continued, but
stressed that it will not be a mus-
eum.

The name of the restaurant was
chosen because of two former
owners of the house, but is also the
name that the house has in the
Historical District of Lexington.
William Willson is a former trea-
surer of Washington College and
postmaster of Lexington. Harry ,
Walker, who was one of the last
owners of the house, operated a
market out of the downstairs.
Mrs. Griswold purchased the
house in December 1983 from
Walker's daughter, who inherited
the property from her father.

 

election procedures

Caruthers also said it is important
to have a more independent body
listen to student complaints about
elections. Assisting him in compiling
the new regulations were current
VRB co-chairmen Bill Metzger and
David Hanna, junior EC represen-
tative Pat Hayden, last year’s VRB
chairman Chris Carter and soph-
omore Brandt Surgner.

“It’s a thankless job, granted, but
it’s an excellent resume filler,’’ joked
Caruthers, who added that he has
already been approached by two

a

4 By Appointment 463-9588
j Robins Peggy * Marie

ee

Manie's ain. Sylens

students other than the current co-
chairmen who wish to serve on the
VRB.

Biology Forum members Jeff
Blount, Guy Caldwell and John Long
asked the EC for funding to publish a
trial issue of a scientific review,
similar to the W&L Political Review,
but from a scientific perspective.

W&L biology Professor Thomas G.
Nye said his department would pro-
vide $150, according to Caldwell. The
EC approved an additional $550 from
its reserve fund.

a

Old Main St. Mall x
Lexington, VA a

es <<. me ete ae Sa Se GEE AR SH 6 GEES 6 RE

 

PIZZA SALE:
$2 OFF!

 

 

 

 

 

@ Better hurry to your home
town Pizza Hut" restaurant!
It’s not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza.{$¥ So
come on in. Bring the whole

family. () We'll pile on layers
of pure mozzarella cheese and
all your favorite toppin,
There's no better time to try
our unparalleled Pizza Hut®
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

    
     
  
     

or

Charter Packages
St. Thomas Flings

From BWI - Feb. 16-23
From Dulles - Feb. 17-24

  

Tortola, British Virgin Is.
From BWI - Feb. 16-23

 

Rockbridge County’s
Component Stereo Center

for your home and car
Maxell UDXLII’s 2.99 ea.

 

 

1 $2 OFF

 

; Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

$D or

 

 

 
 
    
 

Call
463-7174
For
Details

  

 

 

 

 

Featuring: JVC, Boston Acoustic,
Design Acoustic, Panasonic,
Sony, Maxell, Audio Technica

=

2175 Magnolia Ave., Buena Vista

A Division of

Value Mart

 

$2 off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In

cludes Pizza Hut* Pan Pizza!
Hurry; offer expires soon. One
coupon per party per visit at

participating Pizza Hut
restaurants

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA
453-7000

ae

°1.31-85
-

c

January 24, 1985 Page 6

SP O RTS Thien

 

 

+

Biz Roanoke loss cools cagers

A

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Jeff Harralson goes up strong for two points in second half act-

ion from Thursday's Roanoke game.

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee basket-
ball Generals suffered a pair of con-
ference losses, including a second-
half disaster at home against arch-
rival Roanoke, and picked up one
ODAC win in a week that left Coach
Verne Canfield’s squad at 9-7 overall
and 3-3 in the conference.

Trailing by only one point at
halftime but losing by a final score of
74-52, the Generals did not keep up
with the scoring pace set by the Roa-
noke College Maroons in the second
half of Thursday night’s game.

‘We played poorly,’’ said Canfield,
referring to the second half of the
game in which the Maroons outscor-
ed the Generals by 21 points. Canfield
stated, ‘‘We lost our concentration
(in the second half) and did not work
our offense well enough to keep their
transition game away from them.”

Describing the difficult task that
his team had accomplished, Roanoke
head coach Ed Green said, ‘‘It is very
hard to beat W&L on its home court.”’
He continued, ‘‘I think that one might
add that this is one of the best games
that Roanoke has played all year.”’

Roanoke gained its 22 point margin
of victory at the free throw line. The
Maroons scored 28 points in 37 at-
tempts, while the Generals scored
only six points in seven attempts.

Scott Shannon led the Generals in
their cause with 18 points and 13 re-
bounds. Roanoke’s Reggie Thomas
led all scorers with 22 points.

For W&L basketball fans,
these guys are ‘in the bag’

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

When talking about W&L’s
Unknown Fans, a good thing to
remember is that it’s all in the bag.

The Fans have become W&L’s un-
official cheerleaders, each year don-

ning their grocery bags and making
an appearance in the Warner Center
when the Generals host the Roanoke
College Maroons.

Thursday night, the Fans were up
to their old tricks — _ heckling
referees, Roanoke players and
coaches and leading the crowd in
cheers for the Generals.

 

 

 

1

By John Lowe ~ } “x

Kot

 

 

 

Lexington

   
  

Shoe Hospital

We have a complete stock

  

 
 
 

PUT US TO THE TEST!

RY IH} a © Permanent Centers open days,

evenings, weekends.
© Complete TEST-N-TAPE*

   
 

MCAT - DAT
a ad
ge
ae hy
Lee LL
Sea Nea

facilities.

  
 

© Skilled instructors and
dedicated, full-time staff.

© Homestudy materials constantly
updated by Research Experts.

© Low Hourly Cost.

© Transter privileges to over

120 locations.

  
 
 

According to junior Chris Komosa,
who said it was his third year ‘‘in the
sack’’ and his second as one of the
group’s organizers, the Fans do it for
the fun. In looking for recruits, he
said he was looking for ‘‘wild guys
who are willing to make fools of
themselves’’ and are spontaneous.

Doctor Unknown, aka Bill Bloom,
who made his first appearance this
year, said that the fun of being a Fan
was in ‘‘being able to express the true
feelings of the game with my identity
unknown.” He said he was recruited
because he had very few inhibitions,
éither with or without a bag.

In recent years, the Fans have
created some controversy, however.
This year’s version of the Fans were
required to remain on the W&L
sideline and could not stand under
the baskets or on the Roanoke
sideline.

The Fans’ leader said that the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference had
adopted these rules after an incident
that occurred after last year’s game.
Any violation of these rules would
have resulted in a technical foul
against the Generals, he said, and so
the Fans were forced to be a little
more restrained than in previous
years.

Despite these rules, an incident did
occur. Several girls from Roanoke
attacked the Fans and de-bagged a
few of them, including Komosa.

When asked what precautions the
Fans will take to prevent their iden-
tities from being revealed, Komoso
said, ‘‘I guess we'll have to wear two
bags next year.”’

SM aU ISY
SY Ua qty
ate a)
NCB. NCLEX-RN

CGFNS - CPA
Nigaaiiia li
ESL INTENSIVE REVIEW
BU
MURR

CALL DAYS, EVENINGS
& WEEKENDS:

    

Roanoke opened the scoring in the
ballgame when guard Rob Lowry
scored on a jumper from the top of
the key. Jeff Harralson scored for the
Generals to tie the game at 2-2.

The Generals, however, opened up
a four-point lead when Scott Shannon
scored his third basket in as many
tries with 13:51 remaining in the first
half. Roanoke rallied and tied the
game 10-10 when Reggie Thomas
scored at the 1li-minute mark.

Kevin McClatchy scored a basket
at 9:12 to give the Generals their se-
cond four-point lead of the game at
14-10. McClatchy also scored the next
basket for the Generals with 2:57 re-
maining in the first half. During that
6:15 scoring drought, Roanoke out-
scored W&L 8-0 and built an 18-14
lead.

Roanoke led 21-18 with one minute
left in the half, but the Generals cut
the Maroon lead to a single point
when senior swing man Lex Fitzen-
hagen scored on a drive to the bucket
as the final seconds ticked off the
clock.

The Generals managed to stay
close behind Roanoke early in the
second half. Roanoke’s leading
scorer for the season, Shane Aber-
nathy (16.5 points per game), scored
first to boost the Maroons’ lead to
three. Harmon Harden answered to
pull the Generals within one point.
Roanoke, however, began controlling
the game and building a lead.

With 10:35 remaining in the game,
the Maroons’ Charles Small, who was
a question mark before the game
started after having injured his ankle
in Roanoke’s 83-61 loss to ODAC lead-
er Maryville, hit two free throws that
gave Roanoke a 35-26 lead- At this
point in the second half, Roanoke had
outscored W&L 14-6. Dnring the re-
mainder of the game, the Maroons
controlled the tempo using their
transition offense and high shooting
percentage from the line.

Unable to get the ball inside again-
st the Maroons’ tough zone defense
and unable to shoot effectively from
the outside, the Generals could not
make arun at Roanoke’s lead.

The Generals rebounded from the
Roanoke loss with an overwhelming
69-44 victory against Lynchburg on
Saturday night in Lynchburg. Scott

 

Shannon led the Generals with 19
points and seven rebounds.

On Tuesday night, the Generals
suffered a 54-53 heartbreaker loss at
the hands of Eastern Mennonite. The
Generals, who were within a few
points of the Royals for much of the
game, tied things up late in the game
and went ahead on a basket from
Fitzenhagen.

With fewer than 30 seconds to play
in the game, the Generals. forced a
missed shot from Eastern Mennonite
with senior playmaker David Wilkin-
son pulling down the rebound. The
Royals fouled Shannon, giving the
senior forward a chance to ice the
victory with just :04 to play and W&L
up 53-52.

Shannon, however, could not con-
nect on the one-and-one. The Royals

= 3 yates. =e

 

Roanoke’s Reggie Thomas continued to plague the Warner

called a time out and after the break
came back to work a full-court pass
to their leading scorer Leonard Dow
(20 points on the night). Dow caught
the pass at the foul line drove to the
basket, laying in the winning basket
as the buzzer sounded.

Commeni..., on the last second
loss, Canfield said, ‘‘Of course it is’
frustrating and disappointing, buty
you've got to forget about it and look
ahead to the next game.”

W&L will look to right itself tonight
when it plays host to the visitings
Wasps of Emory and Henry. Monday
night, the Generals have another key’
ODAC match-up in the Warner Ceny
ter against the always tough Tigers
of Hampden-Sydney. Both games are
Slated for 7:30 tip-off times. ’

'

  

P he

a oy genet

 

Center. Here,

he grabs a rebound on the way to two of his game high 22 points.

Pore a ee ne

IM STANDINGS
(after 5 sports)
1. Law 85 483
2. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 419
3. Phi Kappa Sigma 412
4. Phi Delta Theta 411
5. Pi Kappa Alpha 399
6. Law 86 389
7. Phi Kappa Psi 385
8. Sigma Phi Epsilon 369
9. Sigma Nu 344
10. Chi Psi 330
11. Lambda Chi Alpha 328
12. Kappa Alpha 317
13. Sigma Chi 280
14. Delta Tau Delta 276
15. PhiGamma Delta 264
16. Law 87 258
17. Beta Theta Pi 255
18. Kappa Sigma 252
19, Pi Kappa Phi 238
20. Zeta Beta Tau 180

 

 

17 West Nelson Street

  
  
 
 
 

RECORDS

 
 

 
   
   
   
 

Lexington, Virginia

 
   
    
 
 
   

This week’s -

sports slate

THURSDAY
BASKETBALL — Emory & Henry
(in Warner Center, 7:30 p.m. )

FRIDAY
SWIMMING — James Madison
(in Twombly Pool, 7 p.m.)

4

SATURDAY
SWIMMING — At Virginia Senior
Invitational (in Fredericksburg, ,
All Day)

FENCING — At Virginia Tech,

10 a.m.

WRESTLING — W&L College In-
vitational (in Warner Center,
lla.m.)

SUNDAY
SWIMMING — At Virginia Senior
Invitational (in Fredericksburg,
All Day)

FENCING — at William & Mary,
10a.m. i

MONDAY
BASKETBALL — Hampden-
Sydney (in Warner Center, 7:30
p.m.)

WEDNESDAY
WRESTLING — At Virginia State
Triangular (Va. State, Howard
and W&L, 6 p.m.)

 

 

 

eo ?

 

   
 

 
  

  
   
  

 
  
 
 

  

of Vibram Sole Set
; : WINTER (804)979-3001
CLASSES 1928 Arlington Bivd., °
NOW = ¢gilimgr--EDUCATIONAL Suite 200 More Than Just Music

« or
Oar e aes ee eee

 
 

+00
o@

3 West Nelson St. FORMI NG or oop iy Charlottesville, Va.

In New York State Stanley H Kapian Educational Center Lid 22901

 
 

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

     
  
 
 
  

   

gl a lh a a a a ng a

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988
DDD DID PPI IDL

* Monarch Notes Available

8 FILMS

‘And Now For Something Completely Different’’

   

est
: pees,
|

Lanier SEAGULL
LAMP SEAPARSR

    

  

 

Monty
Python’s

 
  

 

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP CONSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys)
and Camp Seafarer (girls). Serving as a camp counselor is a challenging and
rewarding opportunity to work with young people, ages 7-16. Sea Gull and Seafarer
are health and character development camps located on the coast of North
Carolina and feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship, plus many usual
camping activities including a wide variety of major sports. Qualifications include
a genuine interest in young people, ability to instruct in one phase of the camps’
programs, and excellent references. For further information and application,
please write a brief resume’ of training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don
Cheek, Director, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North
Carolina 27605.

 
   
     
   
 

 

 
   
 

Saturday and Sunday, 7 and 9 p.m.
Room 109 of the Student Center (above the Cockpit).
Admission only $1.50

 
     

 

 

ee ee
%

tye +

-

--

-

4 es
Tre

Sd

mer
§,
aN A MA

ono

gree ah
eree

ex
A .

°
#0 «9

SRE

eT

a.
<

fre.

‘
+

¢

oe

RE

Mr Civ HAST SNES FS

-

ed

 

By STEVE GREENEBAUM
Staff Reporter

 

Last weekend, the Washington and
Lee swimming team raised their per-
fect record to 50, after defeating
Frostburg State 68-45 and George-
town University 77-33.

Even though the team won by large
margins, it was one of their poorest
performances of the 1984-85 season,
according to Coach Page Remillard.
After six events, the teams were tied
with only seven events remaining.

“‘We didn’t swim well at the start
because we walked in with the im-
pression that a subpar mental pre-
paration would be enough to win,”
said Remillard. ‘During the middle
we talked and realized the team was
flat and needed to unite. From there-
on we took charge of both meets —
good teams need to be able to do
that.”

All-American Bobby Pearson also
felt that the team’s mental prepara-
tion was a problem, “It wasn’t that
we weren’t taking this meet serious-
ly, but we were confident.’’ Pearson

tae

 

Activities pavilion:
so funny it’s sad (?)

....Let’s just come straight out
with it: I can’t use the pavilion and
I’m madder than hell about it.
Frankly, I see that tin roof ex-
travaganza out in the middle of
nowhere as nothing more than an
overgrown storage shed. No, wait a
sec. Let’s step back and look at what
the navilion was supposed to be,
what it is, where it’s failing and how it can be made better.

Way back when (last year), when they were deciding on what the
pavilion was supposed to be, the SAB started the ball rolling with the
idea for a party pavilion, and it was essentially their structure until
the athletic department added its two cents worth — and well they
should have. The Board of Trustees decided on a compromise and
what resulted was the compromise structure that we have before us.

As a party hall, the pavilion is fine, certainly not the best, but
something sufficient to handle the rumpus room minds of most W&L
men. As an indoor athletic facility, it has provided a place for sports
teams to play during inclement weather. Period. No ups, no extras. In-
deed, it is minimal in effectiveness in a couple of key areas that I
would like to address here.

Listen, we’ve built the thing, it’s got a tennis court, why not use it to
the fullest extent possible? Despite all the pre-decision discussion, it
seems the facility was constructed with its athletic uses as an after-
thought. Granted, its primary purpose may have been social in nature,
but if the possibility exists that the barn can be used in a multi-purpose
sense, please don’t go halfway with it.

The tennis court is ludicrous, and what makes it even more
ludicrous is that its inadequacies would have required no major think-
ing to have been changed. First, the court is lightning fast— from talk-
ing to some of the tennis team players; you see I couldn’t know how it
feels to play on it (but more on this later). And I think this negates any
measurable transfer to a real tennis court (Tennis on Mondoflex is
probably worse than driving on ice). The court setup must have been
conceived by someone who was cruel, misguided or didn’t want the
court there in the first place (ah, perhaps there’s the rub). A white cur-
tain as a backdrop creates enough visual problems in itself, but when
you couple that with lines so indistinguishable that you can’t see from
baseline to baseline to baseline...well, let’s just say that white on tan
makes so much sense that I believe it’s a prime indication of declining
SAT’s at Mr. Lee’s university). I think this all could have been cor-
rected by the purchase of a tennis court mat that could be rolled out
when needed, hence eliminating the need for Mondoflex, but then that
required some thinking, didn’t it?

All this aside, I still can’t go play tennis in the pavilion tonight. The
guidelines for the facility mention that only athletic teams can make
use of the facility in a non-concert or non-party sense. It is a misuse of
the facility to restrict it to the use of athletic teams. The concerts in the
pavilion have been very nice and (deep breath) will continue to be so.
My gripe is that on nights when it’s empty there’s no reason — at least
that I can figure — why the court shouldn’t be available for student use

just like so many other racquetball and the squash courts. It’s there,
let’s use it...

.... Moving quickly to the Colonnade, just one thought for the hoops
team after an up and down week: I still think this group can play with
any team in the league. Stay tuned until late February. . . Good to see
swimmers and grapplers going strong as expected. . . . And one final
free throw: The Unknown Fans were perhaps a good idea at one time.
Let us hope that some day they again can become one....

TIME
OUT....

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

....With no offer or, rather, decision coming out of Buffalo, Doug
Flutie seems to be hinting at going with the New Jersey Generals. If
Trump can swing the deal, and pick up Flutie’s roomie Gerard Phelan,
the Generals could be worthy of any NFL club, but then again who
would know or care...

....I think basketball is becoming, more and more, America’s game.
The reason? Well, with cable you can end up with as many as five or
six games a night, and if one gets boring, you can always switch chan-
nels to find one that isn’t. Can’t do that with football or baseball, but
re I guess you couldn’t do that even if there were five or six games a
night....

....Finally, never thought I’d see the day that the World Chess Cham-
pionships became exciting, but after five months the affair in Moscow

is perhaps building to a head. So where’s ESPN when you really need
IVE eis

 

 

WLUR Morning

Foutch & Stachura

 

Magazine

    
 

Lexington’s best
morning show

Fri. 6:45-9:00

_ Swimmers’ ‘less than best’
» Still Keeps them perfect, 5-0

continued to say, ‘‘During our team
meeting the coach didn’t kick us
around, he just made us think about
what we were doing.”

“I explained to the guys that they
don’t need to work as hard as they do
to turn in the times they had swum,”’
said Remillard. ‘‘They work hard
and make a lot of sacrifices and it
doesn’t make sense to do poorly. It’s
like going to class and not listening or
participating, you don’t get anything
out of it.”

Coach Remillard also felt that he
may have affected his team’s think-
ing when he changed the normal line-
up and switched swimmers to differ-
ent events.

“I changed the lineups and was
looking ahead to James Madison, so
they may have felt they didn’t need to
worry since I wasn’t worried,’ Rem-
illard said.

This weekend the Generals will
meet the James Madison Dukes, a
Division I team that won the Virginia
Intercollegiate State Championships
held at Washington and Lee on Dec.
15-16. The team is not shy about say-
ing there is very little chance of beat-
ing James Madison.

“We are a 30 point underdog,”’ said
Tim Stanford. ‘They (JMU) should
earn 14 points in the relays and 14
points in the diving events too, and
they only need 57 points to win. Not
that our divers are not good, but
their’s are more experienced.”’

Stanford is part of the free-style
relay team. They know they’re an
underdog and aren’t scared.

“We pulled it off against John Hop-
kins and even though we are a few
point underdog we’re not going to roll
over and die,”’ said Stanford.

Although the team is in a tight sit-
uation, their attitude is good and they
are hoping for a large turnout since
the meet will be in conjunction with
the Washington and Lee intramural
swimming meet. Both take place on
Friday night.

Stickley named
Lex High coach

Washington and Lee assistant foot-
ball coach Jeff Stickley was named
head coach of the Lexington High
School football team Tuesday.

Stickey was selected by the school
board at the recommendation of the
superintendent of schools and the
principal, vice principal George War-
ren said. Warren said Stickley was
the assistant football coach at LHS
during the 1979-80 season.

A graduate of Bridgewater Col-
lege, Stickley joined W&L in the fall
of 1982 after coaching at James
Madison University.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Greg Kendrick, shown here against Washington and
Jefferson, had a strong Saturday for the Generals at 177

The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1985, Page 7

 

  

ei et
By Mark Ma

Ibs. Kendrick went 2-1 on the afternoon, including a pin
against his VMI opponent.

Grapplers go 7-2-1; Dixon back

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Staff Reporter

 

Less than one month after undergo-
ing arthroscopic knee surgery, senior
captain Jeff Dixon returned to action
last night with a pair of victories that
helped the Washington and Lee
wrestling team to a victory over
Virginia State and a tie against
Howard.

Against Virginia State, W&L over-
came an early deficit to run out the
victory in the heavier weight classes.
Earning points for the Generals were
Steve Castle (118 Ibs.), Jeff Mazza
(134 Ibs.), Larry Anker (142 lbs.),
Kevin McNamara (150 Ibs.), Greg
Russell (158 lbs), Dixon (190 Ibs.) and
heavyweight Mark Weaver to win
29-12.

The Generals earned the tie
against Howard when they won three
of the last four bouts starting with
Win Phillips’ forfeit victory at 167.
The final score was 25-25.

The win and the tie, coupled witha
victory over Washington and Jeffer-
son and losses to Division I teams
Duke and VMI at Saturday’s W&L
Quadrangular, raised the Generals’
record to 7-2-1.

The Generals topped traditionally
strong W&J, home of the Presidents
(and, yes, believe it or not, the First
Ladies), by a 33-9 score. The Gener-
als got the early jump on their Pen-
nsylvania foes with Castle and Brian
Lifsted (126 lbs.) recording wins by
decisions and Mazza pickingp up six
team points via a forfeit. A pin from
Anker at 142 gave the Generals an
18-0 lead after the first four bouts.

Following losses by McNamara
and Russell, Phillips got the grap-

   

BrHE Pius

 

Ladies Night Starts

Monday Feb. 21
Ladies Drink For 1/2 Price

Tuesday -

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT

Thursday -

Law Night

All House Drinks *1.00

101 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

 

Voltage Brothers

 

plers back on track with a hard
fought 9-6 decision. Kendrick also
added a decision at 177 lbs., O’Neill
won by fall at 3:41, and Weaver clos-
ed a solid team effort with a 5-2 deci-
sion victory at the heavyweight divi-
sion.

Saturday’s second team match
brought the Generals their first de-
feat of the season. Some solace per-
haps was to be taken as the 34-11 de-
feat was handed down by the Division
I Duke Blue Devils. W&L remains un-
defeated in competition against Divi-
sion III opponents.

Castle opened the match against
the Blue Devils with a forfeit victory.
Anker was the next to record team
points for the Generals, battling his
foe at 142 to a 4-4 draw. Five bouts
later, 190-pounder O’Neill got the
Generals’ only head-to-head victory,
gaining a 9-8 decision by virtue of his
riding time advantage.

The final match of the afternoon
brought loss No. 2 of the 1984-85 sea-
son as crosstown rival VMI, which
won all three of its matches at the
quadrangular, beat the Generals
32-14,

The Generals did fare better than
they did against Duke, getting three
wins and a draw. After a loss by Cas-
tle at 118, Lifsted rebounded with an
11-4 victory. Mazza was defeated at
134 Ibs., but Anker earned a 5-4 deci-
sion to get the Generals as close as
they would get in the team scoring,
down 10-6 after the first four bouts.

Following losses by McNamara,

sophomore Tim Walker and Phillips,
Kendrick at 177 controlled his oppo-
nent, pinning him at 4:48 of the
match. O’Neill was pinned at 190, but
Weaver closed out the match on an
upbeat note with three third period
points to earn the draw at the heavy-
weight division.

W&L Quad sums

W&L, Washington and Jefferson 9
116-Castie (W&L) dec. Berk 9-6
126~-Lifsted (W&L) dec. Gettiz, 12-7
134—-Mazza (W&L) won by forteit
142--Anker (W&L) pinned Rice, 5:41
150-Wandrisch (W&J) dec. McNamara, 7-4
158-Ferrero (W&J) pinned Russell, 4:20
167-Phillips (W&L) dec. Bell, 9-4
177-Kendrick (W&L) dec. Adams, 6-2
190-O’Neill (W&L) dec. Mankey, 5-2

Duke 34, WAL 1!
118-Castie (W&L) won by forfeit
126-Perri (D) dec. Lifsted, 12-3
134-Egerton (D) pinned Mazza, 3:10
142-Anker (W&L) drew Velahos, 4-4
150-McKahnn (D) pinned McNamara, 2:58
158—Johnson (D) dec. Russell, 6-3
167—bacchetta (D) dec. Phillips, 5-1
177-Henry (D) dec. Kendrick, 15-2
190-O’Neill (W&L) dec. Goltry, 9-8
HWT--Gresen (D) dec. Weaver, 3-2

VMI 32, W&L 14
118-Zoeke (VMI) pinned Castie, 4:21
126-Lifsted (W&L) dec. Carroll, 11-4
134—Nickle (VMI) dec. Mazza, 11-2
142-Anker (W&L) dec. Smaladen, 5-4
150-Kiehl (VMI) dec. McNamara, 8-3
158—-Henderson (VMI) dec. Walker, 13-1
167-Arris (VMI) pinned Phillips, 2:36
177-Kendrick (W&L) pinned Starling, 4:48
190-Burdette (VMI) pinned O’ Neill, 5:42
HWT--Weaver (W&L) drew Hill, 44

The Beta

Burger is Back

... and so are Muffin and

the Plain Jane

But there are 4 new Gourmet Hamburgers at The

Palms.

And Three new Entrees (including Filet Mignon for

only $11.95).

And, under the Palms’ Originals catagory we've
added Croissants! And Pitas!

And those are just the highlights of our new 1985
Menu. You'll have to stop by and check out the

rest for yourself.

   

(HE

Coming... February 1-2

Friday Night 8 p.m. Saturday Night 8 p.m.

Pius

101 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

  
  

UAT aR

 

 

 

 

   

Cruis-o-matic

 

 

ES

 

Dirty Secrets

 

 

 

 

   

Join the

Waller Family

 

 

 

Revolution
in Red Roses
Cash and Carry
One
1/2 Doz.
1 Doz. ....$15.99

   

103.N. Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 465-984)

   

Student Activities Pavilion

The Muscular Dystrophy Superdance

 

      

00" 8"0"0"0"0"s"0"00"0"0"6 0's 0 0'e e's 0 6 66s sees eee eee
eran en ete ete etre se ates ste ete se e e's ee ete es ete ete s

  

quired

Heh etehehetatetetatetetetetetetetetetatetetetetat #.0.0.0.0.9.0.6 8.88 0008

OO

Tickets - *6.00 for entire weekend at the door
Positive I.D. Re

0,029.9 #,070-0"0°0"0"0'e"0"0"9"«
oretetereterenetetete tere tetetets arateteretee:

waste tet ate ttetetetsttatettatltat Ob Btls eeeeere erent er etelererereterecetareree sce tererecetere a ete atetetetatatetetatatatatatatststatatatl

      

wo 0 00010 6 400 08 ee ene ee ere ere beta eta a a teta’
“Back Pag

The Ring-tum Phi

January 24, 1985

 

 

Up With People’ has universal appeal |.

 

well as learning from the
periences of everyday living

Will Browne, a sophomore from

ty BILL BLOOM ex

taff Reporter

 

\ mystery to many Washington Littleton, Colo., will be watching
nd Lee students this week is the tomorrow’s performance with more
ypular “Up With People” posters than a casual eye

en around campus Browne was a cast member with
rhe poster says that this group will ‘‘Up With People’’ for a year between
e performing at VMI’s Cameron high school and college. He described
fall tomorrow at 8 p.m. But what is the upcoming performance as being

a family entertainment show as well
as something ‘“‘really, really difficult
to describe with words It is

Up With People’’?
No, “Up With People” is not a

eligious group. Nor is it a political
roup something you've got to see.”’
Up With People’ is an interna- Asked whether ‘Up With People”’
| non-profit organization found- has any religious affiliation,
in 1968 for the purpose of deliver- Browne’s immediate reply was, ‘I
, message to interested com- know, that’s what everybody thinks
unities promoting the learning at first” He added. * ‘Up With Peo-
yout the different peoples of the ple’ has no religious connections at

all.”
As an “Up With People’ cast

rid. It supports and encourages
ication in the academic fields as

  

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-+tum Phi

Few problems were reported at Saturday’s pavilion concert featuring
George Thorogood and the Deleware Destroyers. The active pavilion
schedule resumes tomorrow evening with the Ramones. Tickets are
available at the Bookstore and at the door.

 

 

PN ALE LED DIL DP DIMI AD ME LE AI LE LI MD LEG LE ME ME LEG AF

The New Opticians

Eye Care Center
Glasses - Contacts - Repairs

Ray-Bans 10% Off With Ad

AP LS OE OE A AE AE BE St

& 203 N. Main St. 463-7440
SMT MME MT
.

boomacwvawaas swam

°
4
4
t4
“
4
f
v4
v4
ff
~
4
4
4
4
/
v4
v4
‘4
4
4
4
4
iS
4
A
4
4
v4
4
v4
v4
A
4
6
4
ft
6
4
v4
f
v4
f
a4
4
4

Come Make Your Reservations
for Washington's Break

. Mexico from $299 and up.

. Bahamas from $199 and up

. Ski West from $277 and up

. Ski East from $215 and up

. Ski Austria $529 including air fare

. Baltimore to London $338 Round Trip

SILAAALAAALABAASAABAMSK

owe Ww IN =

Herring Travel Services, Inc.

41 South Main St.
463-2197

FSAAAAIASAAS

Sandwich Shop

Featuring

Subway’s Own Happy Hour...
Beat The Clock

   
 
 
   
    

Mon.-Fri. from 4-6 p.m., Sat. 12-2 a.m.
and
Campus Advertising Presents
Subway Delivery Service 8 p.m.-12

463-5752

 
 

member, Browne's role varied from
that of singer, dancer and soloist to
that of promotion, technical and
labor assistant

“The experiences I had were
marvelous and rare for someone my
age,”’ he said. “They were ex-
periences | will cherish for the rest of
my life.”

Those experiences included travel-
ing throughout the United States,
Mexico and Europe with the cast of
about 100 members from more than
20 countries. He met famous actors
and actresses, mayors, governors
and more than 90 host families. Host
families in each city house the cast.

More than 10,000 young people app-
ly for the cast positions each year,
and between 500 and 600 are ac-
cepted. The year of traveling and
performing costs the cast member

about $5,800, which is only about one-
third of the actual cost. Various sup-
port groups, as well as charges for
admission to the performances, help
to cover the other costs, Browne said.

Cast members range in age from 18
to 26, and their average age is 20. The
only requirement for membership is
a high school diploma, and accep-
tance is based almost completely on
an interview, with little regard for
talent, according to Browne.

Admission for tomorrow's perfor-
mance, which will last two hours, will
be $5. Browne said the performance
will include singing and dancing to
“all original, enjoyable music.”’

And when he sees the performance,
Browne said, “‘I will be watching and
dying to get up on stage. . . . They’ll
have to strap me to my seat.”’

Breakin’ ‘Conan’ mold

MOVIEREVIEW

 

By STEVEN SANDLER
Movie Critic

 

“The Terminator,’’ starring Ar-
nold Schwarzenegger, qualifies pro-
bably as the best ‘‘B’’ movie of the
year. Unlike the banal ‘‘Conan”’ films
that relied simply on the former Mr.
Universe's large biceps, “‘The Ter-
minator’’ is a genuinely suspenseful
and entertaining film.

The setting is present-day Los
Angeles, and the Terminator
(Schwarzenegger) has been sent
through time from the year 2027. The
unit is a cyborg that has been built
and programmed by a sophisticated
network of computers that rules the
world in the aftermath of a nuclear
war. His target for termination is
Sarah Conner (Linda Hamilton), but
the reason for this, I will not disclose
here.

Her only hope, however, is Sgt.
Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn), who

‘Breakin’ 2’
MOVIEREVIEW

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

 

‘Breakin’ 2 Electric Boogaloo,”’
the sequel to last summer’s highly
lucrative ‘‘Breakin’,’’ features the
same threesome (Ozone, Kelly and
Turbo) who danced their way to suc-
cess in that picture. This story begins
with Kelly dancing in Broadway
chorus lines and Ozone and Turbo
helping teach dance at a local youth
center. The conflict arises when a
real estate developer decides to buy
the land around the youth center,
tear it down and build a shopping
mall. Will the kids lose their
neighborhood to the developer? What
do you think? “Breakin’ 2” is, to be
blunt, a very predictable movie.

As in all Hollywood musicals, danc-
ing and singing are key components
here. Unfortunately, neither the
dancing nor the singing leaves
lasting impressions. The one song
that does stay with you is “I Believe
in the Beat,’’ which also states the
theme of the movie — “the Beat’

has been assigned to protect her.
Reese has been sent back through
time by the humans fighting against
their ultimate extermination at the
‘“thands”’ of the computer system.

What makes this movie work are
the performances of Biehn, Hamilton
and Schwarzenegger and the well-
paced dialogue. As the cyborg
assassin, Schwarzenegger is not
blessed with an abundance of conver-
sation in his role, but he makes the
most of the lines he has. More impor-
tantly, though, is his physical perfor-
mance as he is very convincing play-
ing his part, simply through the ap-
parent ease by which he seems to
destroy everything in his path at
some points in the movie.

Biehn and Hamilton are not out-
done by their counterpart, to the ex-
tent that the dramatic flow and even
the plot itself are not relying totally
on Schwarzenegger’s presence.
Their relationship is indeed crucial to
the story, and it is because of this
balance among the three main
characters, and not in spite of it, that
the movie is successful for the
viewer.

lacks flash

conquers all. The dancing, however,
leaves much to be desired; after
“Breakin’,” “Beat Street,’ and
countless TV and commercial uses of
break dancing, its use as the central
action in ‘‘Boogaloo’’ is tiresome.

Three minor points do seem worth
mentioning. The relationship among
the three main characters comes
across as very strong, especially
when Ozone and Kelly look at each
other, Seeing Turbo dance around his
room is also kind of fun because when
I say ‘“‘around his room,”’ I mean ceil-
ing, walls, floors, everywhere. Final-
ly, there is a hilarious scene when
Ozone is teaching Turbo to pick up
girls; each ‘‘sees’’ the other dancing
with his own girlfriend. These are,
however, minor moments and hardly
enough to make an hour-and-a-half
movie.

The quick release of this sequel has
raised a few eyebrows and a few
questions, and justifiably so. The suc-
cess of its predecessor and the lure of
the Christmas audience won’t be
enough to save this picture. Ozone
himself says, ‘“‘We gotta come up
with some new moves.”’ ‘‘Breakin’
2,” disappointingly, does not.

   

‘ . -
By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Will Browne, a Washington and Lee sophomore, says he'll be sitting on the
edge of his seat during tomorrow's ‘‘Up With People” performance at VMI.

‘Rebels,’ ‘Belles’ find ‘Comfort’
in Winter Festival Saturday

that nerform micice similar ta Soeuth-
ern Comfort’s repertoire. Joining

 

 

Fresh from a six-day engagement
at the Greenbrier Resort in White

Sulphur Springs, W. Va., Washington
and Lee’s singing group, Southern
Comfort, will appear in Lee Chapel
on Saturday at 8 p.m.

There is no admission charge for
the concert, and the public is invited.

The concert, billed as a ‘‘Winter
Festival,’ will include the appear-
ance of two women’s singing groups

Southern Comfort will be The Rever-
end’s Rebels of Goucher College in
Towson, Md., and the Virginia Belles
from the University of Virginia.

Appearing on the extended stage of
Lee Chapel, the groups will present a
variety of popular musical styles,
ranging from PDQ Bach to the Beach
Boys and from barbershop to Broad-
way.

‘Reds,’ ‘October’ provide
views of Russian Revolution

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Looking for more than three hours
of entertainment and enlightenment
at absolutely no charge?

Then clear your calendar for the
evening of Jan. 30 or 31, when the
politics department presents
“Reds,” the Oscar-winning portrayal
of the American Left and the Russian
Revolution directed, produced, co-
written and starring Warren Beatty,
with appearances by Diane Keaton,
Jack Nicholson and Gene Hackman.
The film portrays the life of
American Socialist John Reed and

the role fie atu vulers piayeu in the
Russian Revolution.

For another viewpoint on the same
theme, Russian director Sergei
Eisenstein’s film “October: Ten
Days That Shook the World ”’ is being
presented tomorrow night. The film,
based loosely on Reed’s book, has the
distinction of being censored both in
Russia, for its political content, and
in America, for its religious satire.
The segments dealing with religion

have been re-inserted for tomorrow _

night’s show. This film is noted for its
innovative use of cinematic tech-
niques.

Both films will be shown in Room
327 of the Commerce School at 7 p.m.

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE COUNTY CHAPTER

DUCKS UNLIMITED BANQUET
Wednesday, January 30, 1985
Lexington Country Club — Lexington

Cocktails and Refreshments 6:00 p.m.
Roast Beef Dinner 7:30 p.m.

AUCTIONS *« PRIZES GALORE

Tickets Available at W&L Bookstore.

Ducks Unlimited Membership........... $10.00
(tax deductible)

fee a $12.00

Ses i $22.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

YaffmaK tite Florist
Remember Feb. 14
We Wire Everywhere

165 South Main Street

463-9152

 

 

saute asian eget ea arma epirnneggsisegn-<~ megacmaremammmmaamree neuen: |

ONCAMPUS

Friday, January 25

7 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: ‘October: Ten Days That Shook
the World.’’ Commerce School 327.
8 p.m. — “UP WITH PEOPLE” PROGRAM: Cameron Hall, VMI. Ad-
mission is $5.
8:30 p.m. — PAVILION CONCERT: Featuring The Ramones with
special guests The Strangers. Admission is $6 at the door, $5 in ad-:
vance at the W&L Bookstore. Proper I.D. required. Student Activities
Pavilion.

Saturday, January 26
7 & 9 p.m. — FILM: Monty Python’s “And Now For Something Com-
pletely Different.” Sponsored by SAB. Admission is $1.50. Room 109 of
the Student Center.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Southern Comfort’s Winter Festival. Lee
Chapel.

Sunday, January 27
7 & 9 p.m. — FILM: Monty Python’s “And Now For Something Com-
pletely Different.’ Sponsored by SAB. Admission is $1.50. Room 109 of
the Student Center.

Monday, January 28
7 p.m.— FILM: ‘Twelfth Night.’”’ BBC Shakespeare Series. Northen

Auditorium.
8 p.m, - CONCERT: The W&L Glee Club will join the Lexington High

School Choir. Lee Chapel.

Wednesday, January 30
7p.m.— POLITICS FILM: ‘‘Reds.”’ Commerce School 327.
8:30 p.m, — WEDNESDAY AT THE COCKPIT: Featuring Billy Price.
Admission is $2.

OFFCAMPUS

Friday, January 25

Hollins — 8:15 p.m. —DRAMA PRODUCTION: ‘‘The Great Nebula in
Orion.’’ Admission is $1. Hollins Theatre.
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College — 8 p.m. — SENIOR THEATER
MAJORS PRODUCTION: ‘Agnes of God.”’ Admission is $3. Thorseen
Theatre.

Saturday, January 26
Hollins — 8:15 p.m. — DRAMA PRODUCTION: ‘‘The Great Nebula in
Orion.”
Sweet Briar — 8 p.m. — WINTER TERM PRODUCTION: ‘‘Win, Lose
or Draw.”’ Babcock Auditorium.
Sweet Briar — 9 p.m. — FILM: ‘‘On the Waterfront.” Admission is 50°.
Guion Auditorium.
Randolph-Macon Woman's College — 8 p.m. — SENIOR THEATER
MAJORS PRODUCTION: ‘‘Agnes of God.”

Monday, January 28
Sweet Briar — 4 & 7:30 p.m. - FILM: ‘‘On The Waterfront.’’ Admis-
sion is 50*. Guion Auditorium.
Sweet Briar — 8 p.m. — WINTER TERM PRODUCTION: ‘‘Win, Lose
or Draw.”’ Babcock Auditorium.

 

 

 

    

EAST LEX

Monday-Saturday 9-12

Busch, 6 pk. $2.35

  

Phone: 463-3614
Bud, 12 pk... 95.24

Oe RTE, os aki cry ieesines

       
 

 

   

 

 

  

e
