 

 

   
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

VOLUME 84, NUMBER 18

Sports
Injuries

 

 

General
Notes

Need a job?

Roanoke Times & World-News
Managing Editor William Warren
and W&L journalism Professor
Ronald MacDonald will speak
about journalism internships
Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Reid 203.
The discussion is sponsored by the
Society of Professional Journa-
lists, Sigma Delta Chi.

Bookworms?

The White Book Revisions Com-
mittee will consist of the following
students: Andrew Caruthers, Sam
Dalton, Richard Earles, Jill Faus-
tini, Jim Foley, Pat Hayden, Jim-
my Humphries, Chris John, Jim
Murphy and Brandt Surgner. The
committee's first meeting will be
‘ Monday, Feb. 25, at 8 p.m. Any
members who cannot attend
should call Sam Dalton at
463-3399.

The time is now

Deadline for Political Review
articles is Feb. 15. All articles for
the spring issue must be turned in
to Carole Chappell’s office

Live from Roanoke

WLUR-FM (91.5) will broadcast
Saturday night’s Washington and
Lee basketball game at Roanoke
College live at 7:30 p.m.

Not the dead arts

The deadline for the spring is-
sue of Ariel, the campus literary
magazine, is Monday, Feb. 25, at5
p.m. Photography, drawings,
short stories, poems or articles on
the lively arts should be turned in
to Carole Chappell’s office.

Taking the plunge

The Catholic Campus Ministry
will sponsor a discussion about
“Preparing for Marriage’’ led by
Father Noto on Wednesday at 5:15
p.m. at St. Patrick’s Catholic
Church. Mass will be celebrated
before the talk, which will be
followed by dinner.

Need another job?

Applications now are being ac-
cepted for a possible opening in
the Admissions Office as admis-
sions counselor for the 1985-86
academic year. Any graduating
student interested in the position
should submit a letter of applica-
tion to the Admissions Office by
March 1. Personal interviews will
be held during March.

Comrades, unite

The Russian Film Series will
present ‘‘The Brothers Karam-
azov”’ tonight at 7 in Commerce
School 327. This Russian film,
which has English subtitles, is
based on Fyodor Dostoevsky’s
novel.

The Organizer

The Politics Film Festival will
show “The Organizer,” an Italian
film with English subtitles, Wed-
nesday and Thursday, Feb. 13 and
14, in Commerce School 327. Set in
Turin, Italy, about 1880, this film
was an Oscar nominee for best
foreign film.

High-flying film

The Film Society will present a
Nicaraguan film, ‘‘Alsino and the
Condor,” Friday and Saturday at

8 p.m. in Classroom A of Lewis
Hall.

It’ll make your day

The Student Activities Board
will present the original Dirty
Harry film in wide-screen Cine-
mascope Friday, Saturday and
Sunday at 7 and 9 p.m. each night
in Room 109 of the Student Center.
Admission is $1.50.

Goin’ to the Chappell

Seniors who have not already
done so should fill out their senior
index forms, which are available
in Carole Chappell’s office.

Wake up!

Assistant Athletic Trainer Jim
Griffin needs volunteers for a
flexibility training experiment
he’s doing for his master’s degree.
He said he’s looking for sedentary
people who are willing to come in
for 5-10 minutes three times a
week for 4-6 weeks. He can be
reached at 463-8689.

 

 

 

The Back Page

Listening
to art

 

 

Page 8

 
 
  
   

 

THE UNIVERSITY

LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSIT)

LEXINGTON, VA.

24450

 

Your Weekend Weather

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Going,

going,
gone

eiraie ye

me raiae ae
Dean Edward C. Atwood
George C, O’Connell
Raymon L. Kuper
Hampden H. Smith
Wayne M. Dymacek
Richard Miller

   

Assistant Athletic Director George C. O'Connell enjoys his Superdance pie Saturday night.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

.

$250
$250
$225
$215
Pa
$60

 

 

By David Sprunt

Dancing, pie tosses raise $33,000

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

leges, which raised $1,800.

The grand total came to $33,213. The committee had
set its goal for the weekend at $30,000.

 

Last weekend’s 30-hour Superdance, described as the
“best ever,’ raised more than $33,000 in cash and
pledges for the Muscular Dystrophy Association.

Chris Williams, co-chairman of the Superdance steer-
ing committee, said this year’s event was ‘‘the biggest

and best ever.”’

The reason was that for the first time, the Superdance
was held at the student activities pavilion, he said. The
pavilion attracted the largest number of spectators
ever to the event, he said, because of the building’s
large capacity, which allows the committee to bring in

bigger name bands.

This year set a new record for the number of dancers
participating. About 185 people from area colleges
danced, raising $18,001 in pledges. The old record was

165 dancers.

Williams said the participation of several cadets from
Virginia Military Institute was one of the reasons for

the new record.

Cadet Glen Frank, who recruited the dancers from

VMI, said about 16 cadets danced.

The dancers’ pledges accounted for the majority of
the money raised. Beer sales brought in $3,000. Frater-
nities contributed $2,406. Pie throws earned $885. Raffle
ticket sales totaled $700. Gate receipts were not avail-

able.

In addition to the dancers’ pledges, the Superdance
raised money through other events. The committee
held “‘slave auctions” at Hollins and Mary Baldwin col-

 

From Staff Reports

 

A Rockbridge County Jail in-
mate ‘‘walked off while he was
carrying out the trash’ Friday
night and has not been captured,
according to Sheriff S.M. Rey-
nolds.

The escapee — Frank E: Lane,
21 -was the man who testified in
December that Scot T. Mesner
had admitted setting the fire that
killed a student and gutted the Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity house
last spring.

Lane said Mesner confessed to
the crimes during a chess game
while the two were cellmates.
Murder and arson charges
against Mesner were later dis-
missed. Following the trial, tele-
vision cameras recorded him say-
ing to Lane, ‘‘Have fun, Frank.”

Lane was indicted Monday on
charges of breaking and entering
and grand larceny in connection
with the May theft of $200 in pro-
perty from the Veterans of For-
eign Wars building in Lexington.

Reynolds said Lane was a part
of the jail’s trusty program, which

 

 

Williams said that after expenses, about $20,000 will
go to the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Most of the
money will be returned to the area, he said. It will be us-
ed to care for patients, research muscular dystrophy
and send children suffering from muscular dystrophy
tosummer camp.

Williams called this weekend one of the most satisfy-

ing things he’s ever done. ‘‘The Superdance is ore way
of being thankful for what I have and to help other peo-
ple out,” he said. “It’s a way of educating people to
what muscular dystrophy is all about. Seeing their emo-
tions surface lets me know that it’s all worthit.”

David Sizemore, another of the committee’s co-chair-

he said.

men, echoed Williams’ thoughts. ‘‘Superdance is the
most fulfilling experience I have had. I’ve been for-
tunate, and I want to give some of that back to others,”’

Some of those who danced expressed similar feelings.
Jim Barker, a sophomore dancing in his second Super-

dance, called it ‘‘one of the few means for a college stu-

dent to help others.”

Tom Langheim, a freshman, said he danced because

disease,”

he had a personal experience with muscular dystrophy.
He explained that he had an uncle who was a victim of
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,

or ‘Lou Gehrig’s

“T saw my uncle waste away. He went from a big,

allows a designated inmate to run
errands for the staff during the
day and be confined at night.

“He had delivered some ice
cream upstairs and he had taken
out one load of trash,’’ Reynolds
said. ‘‘He didn’t return from the
dumpster.”

Reynolds said Lane, who had
been in custody since Nov. 27, was
made a trusty for the last six
weeks because the jailer believed
he was reliable. ‘‘Of course, you
never know about that,”’ he said.

“It’s a privilege for them to get
to be a trusty,” he added. ‘‘They
earn that. Everybody back there
wants to bea trusty.”’

Reynolds said that after author-

‘ities discovered about 9:30 p.m.
Friday that Lane was missing,
they launched a search of the area
that lasted until 6 a.m. Saturday.

The sheriff said officers are no
longer actively seeking Lane.
“He'll come up somewhere,”’ he
said. ‘‘He’ll foul up somewhere
along the line. He’ll get caught for
speeding or something.”’

‘‘We’ll get him , there’s no doubt
about that,” he said of Lane. ‘‘It
may take a little time, though.”’

 

 

strong man to nothing. I understand what these victims
and their families go through,’’ he said. ‘‘Superdance
was my way of helping them out.”’

Arson trial witness escapes

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Fair but cold all weekend;
highs in 20s,

lows in teens

 

 

FEBRUARY 7, 1985

School settles case
with ex-employee;
terms undisclosed

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
News Editor

 

An undisclosed settlement was
reached last month between the
University and former Evans Dining
Hall manager Wanda Coffey-Bailey,
almost a year after she filed sex
discrimination complaints with the
Equal Opportunity Employment
Commission.

Coffey-Bailey’s dissatisfaction
began when she became pregnant in
1982 and her ability to do her job
began to be questioned, she said this
week.

She resigned at the end of last term
and will not return to work, she said.
She has dropped her EEOC com-
plaints, according to her lawyer, Ar-
thur Strickland of the Roanoke law
firm Strickland and Rogers.

‘What happened was she had com-
plaints against the University, and
they entered into a compromise set-
tlement,’’ Strickland said.

Part of that agreement, he added,
is that neither party will disclose its
terms, including whether the settle-
ment was a financial one.

Coffey-Bailey said she filed three
complaints with the EEOC. The first
charged that she was forced to work
in stressful conditions because of her
sex, and a second claimed that she
was denied a raise partly as a result
of her first complaint, which was fil-
ed Feb. 5, 1984.

Coffey-Bailey said she believes
other female W&L employees have
suffered discrimination, also. She ad-
ded that several female employees,
including some she doesn’t know,
have been calling her and telling her
to ‘‘hang in there,”’ she said.

In several interviews this week,
Coffey-Bailey outlined her com-
plaints, which center on her super-
visor, Food Services Director Gerald
J. Darrell, and include his superiors,
University Treasurer E. Stewart Ep-
ley and President John D. Wilson.

Coffey-Bailey said her relationship
with Darrell had been strained since
she began work in the dining hall in
September 1979, because of a dis-
agreement about how much responsi-
bility she should have.

“Then when the day came that I
told him I was pregnant, things went
downhill,” she said. Darrell tried to
take away some of her duties the first
time she became pregnant, in July
1982, Coffey-Bailey said. ‘He could
never let me be the manager while I
had children,” she added.

‘“‘At many of our discussions I ask-
ed him if he could name times when I
had taken time off. He said, ‘You
haven’t taken time off,’ she said
“Twas very adamant about the fact
that I had always done my job.”

Darrell said he initially was satis-
fied with Coffey-Bailey’s work. ‘‘I
thought she did a nice job for the first
couple of years, and I told her that
when I evaluated her performance,”
he said.

He added that he could not com-
ment ¢n the matter any further.
“I’ve been informed that it’s been
University policy not to discuss per-
sonnel matters,’’ Darrell said.

After her problem progressed to
the point that she did not feel able
to continue working in the dining
hall, she approached Epley, she said.

“The only response I got was,
‘Well, we see the problem, and the
only thing we can suggest is you look
for work elsewhere.’ ”’

“Not once did people in the admin-
istration say, ‘Hey, I see your
charges here,’ ’’ she added. ‘* ‘Let’s
talk about them and see what can be
done.’ ”’

Epley said he could not comment
on the situation.

Coffey-Bailey said she was told
that the administration would back
Darrell in the matter. When she

approached Wilson with her pro- |
blem, his response ‘‘was along those

See EEOC, Page 5

‘Dry’ parties may be in future

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
and BRUCE POTTER
Staff Reporters

 

Washington and Lee fraternities
will have to exercise ‘‘a whole lot
more discretion’’ about who they
serve alcohol to if the General
Assembly raises the state’s drinking
age to 21, according to Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board agent Roger
Stevens.

An increase in the drinking age
also could force all campus wide par-
ties to be ‘‘dry,’’ Associate Dean of
Students Michael A. Cappeto said.

“With the age raised to 21, only a
small portion of the student body will
be able to drink and the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board wouldn’t
give us a license to serve beer to so
few people,’’ Cappeto said.

Cappeto said that these changes
will take place as soon as legislation
goes into effect. ‘‘We don’t have any
choice about what to do, we have to
obey the law,”’ he said.

Fraternities at W&L might also be
in for some changes. Dan Murphy,
associate dean of students for frater-
nity affairs, said that fraternities at

W&L may very well have to limit the
amount of alcohol they serve. ‘‘The
ABC will probably be a lot stricter on
the fraternities when they know that
two-thirds of them shouldn't be
drinking,” he said.

Fraternities won't have to give up
serving alcohol completely Stevens
said, but they will have to make sure
that the people they serve are of legal
age to be drinking.

Contrary to some beliefs, fraterni-
ty parties are not above the law sim-
ply because they are considered by
the ABC to be private functions,
Stevens said. The ABC assumes that
fraternities abide by the law and
usually will only investigate a house
if it receives a complaint about the
fraternity or if an agent has probable
cause to believe that minors are con-
suming alcohol in a fraternity.

Stevens said that fraternities must
be careful not to advertise a party,
because then it is no longer a private
party. He added that charging for
beer is a misdemeanor — selling al-
cohol without a license.

Raising the drinking age would not
necessarily keep alcohol off college
campuses, according to Del. Frank
D. Hargrove, R-Hanover County, the

 

Edax Inc. teaches seniors about ‘real world’

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Four senior business majors are
learning the ins and outs of the com-
petitive, challenging and frequently
frustrating world of business. But
this is no textbook this is a game!

The Intercollegiate Business
Games and Conference is a 24-school
competition that simulates a_busi-
ness atmosphere by providing real-
istic options and obstacles for the stu-
dent strategists. Washington and
Lee’s team of four business majors —
Mike Bearup, Harry Golliday, Wil-
liam Schoeffler and Kurt Shreiner —
is operating a simulated telephone
manufacturing company in competi-
tion with five other “‘companies”’ run
by five colleges.

The W&L group has named its film

 

 

Edax Telecom Inc.

4 estat atin dee a alee AN Ha St Aen nee

The object of the game is to create
and operate the most profitable and
stable corporation along with giving
the best oral presentation of strat-
egies and forecasts before a panel of
business experts at Emory Universi-
ty in Atlanta at the game’s March 1-2
conference.

The games began Jan. 21, when
each school was given the scenario
for the corporation and $2.5 million in
capital.

Each school is required to send by
computer ten commercially strateg-
ic decisions (raising prices, investing
profits, etc.) in five weeks. They get
responses the next day, and then
must defend the decision at the
March convention.

“‘The game tries to come as close to
the real free-enterprise market as it
can,” Bearup said. He added that the
games are a good “transitional

See Game, Page 5

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi
Team members (I-r) William Schoeffler, Mike Bearup, Kurt Shreiner and
Harry Golliday plan their next move in the Emory Business Games.

sponsor of the drinking age bill in the
House of Delegates.

“T think that college students over
the recent years have become accus-
tomed to having the ability to con-
sume alcohol at a younger age,’’ Har-
grove said. ‘“‘The adjustment (in the
drinking age) certainly is a change in
the conditions under which you can
legally consume alcohol.

“But I think it would be naive to
assume that all college campuses
would be free of beer.’’

In addition to reducing drinking in
high schools, Hargrove said, he
hopes the bill will cut down on the
amount of excessive drinking in col-
leges.

Both houses of the General Assem-
bly have passed versions of a bill
raising the legal drinking age to 21.
The House of Delegates’ bill would do
so only if the federal government
agreed to raise the age to 21 on mili-
tary bases, but the Senate defeated a
similar amendment.

Also, the House bill would allow
those who turned 20 by Oct. 1 to con-
tinue drinking while the Senate bill
would allow those who are 19 by July

See Drinking, Page 5
A TA

‘State of Union’:
student reaction

A group of five student leaders

watching President Reagan’s
State of the Union address last
night agreed that while the speech
emphasized emotional appeals

over substance, the president has
set a specific agenda for the next
four years

The students, viewing the
speech at a forum sponsored by
The Ring-tum Phi, concluded that
the key points of that agenda will

be efforts to avoid raising taxes,
heavy stress on social issues such
as abortion and attempts to retain
the gains posted by the economy
inrecent months

Excerpts from the discussion
are On page 3

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

OPINION
M.D.:

Page 2
February 7, 1985

Knockout or not?

Washington and Lee went 30 rounds against Muscular
Dystrophy last weekend, and we went for a knockout. More
than $30,000 was raised through the efforts of the student
dancers and organizers. For all the hours of preparation, in-
cluding the many miles logged going down the road drum-
ming up support at surrounding colleges, it was a feat worth

cherishing with just pride.

In the wake of the accomplishment, though, we must not
relax, but rather should contemplate how the Superdance
can be improved in future years. This year, many people
questioned whether the Muscular Dystrophy Association was
the right charity to benefit from our efforts. M.D.A. has one
of the highest administrative operating budgets of any non-
profit organization of its kind, with more than 50 percent of
its take financing additional fundraising efforts, celebrity
endorsements and operating expenses. Is there another or-
ganization with the same kind of national appeal that has

lower operating costs?

On the final night of Superdance this year, the crowd at the
pavilion seemed thin, if not sparse. Although this could be at-
tributed to the pavilion’s vastness, steps may have to be
taken to increase student interest in the Superdance and pro-
long that interest throughout the whole weekend. Was the $6
ticket cost for the weekend’s events too steep a price for
many? Might a per-night charge be better in the future?

Additionally, participation among students from the neigh-
boring colleges has been increasing in the last few years, due

in great part to increased

efforts among Superdance

organizers to reach out to that previously untapped support.
Witness the ‘‘auctions’’ held at Mary Baldwin and Hollins
this year for the benefit of M.D.A. In future years, could
Superdance organizers create greater excitement at neigh-
boring schools through other such innovative schemes?

Finally, participation by W&L students ought to be
addressed. Seniors might remember their first Superdance
and the crowds in Evans Dining Hall, the dancers from all
classes and the sense of campus unity that came from Super-
dance. Somewhere, that excitement has been lost. The
average dancer this year was probably a pledge required by
his fraternity to participate. Required participation may fill
up the dance floor and fatten the coffers, but it detracts from
the spirit of the event. In light of the slightly thinner crowds
at Superdance this year, do W&L students really take the
dance as seriously as once they did? For many, Superdance
weekend means a chance to escape from Lexington without
having to worry about missing any campus event.

This is not a death wish for Superdance. Rather, it repre-
sents concern over the direction Superdance is heading. We
have succeeded in the past — and I believe we will succeed in
the future — because of the dedication of a few to a great
cause. However, that dedication seems to be eclipsed these
days by several factors that we can control only if we choose
to do so. The polish is slowly giving way to a tarnish.
Together, we can restore the achievement. Together, we

must try.

— By Nelson Patterson

 

 

 

TRREAGAN'Ss “CHERRY TREES” (|

 

 

‘Joe Party’ meets firewater

MY VIEW |

By Mike
McAlevey

It’s that time again when one might
experience the call of the wild. No,
not another article defining the bio-
logical needs of the post-adolescent
male or shamefully defaming the
character of women, but rather one
expounding the ‘‘virtues’” of a sub-
stance that can pacify the unruly soul
or provoke hostile behavior more ef-
fectively than the love of a bad
female. We’re talking about some-
thing that has produced indeter-
minate quantities of “forgotten” or
ill-fated romantic encouters and also
affords the Lexington Police Depart-
ment the opportunity to increase its
yearly receipts through fines. That’s
right, boys, “firewater,”’ rocket fuel”
— the names are as creative and
numerous as the reactions to them.
Let us examine how particular sects
of our student body handle this stuff.

The natural place to start is a Fri-
day afternoon. Hordes of self-pro-
claimed overworked students, ‘‘hos-
ed” by at least one vicious professor,
abandon the Hill planning to redefine
the parameters of party mania. Re-

 

‘

presenting the counter-contingent to
these weekend warriors are those
soaring in the jubilant ether after a
week of hard work and plenty of suc-
cess in the classroom wanting to re-
ward themselves with light spirits
and stimulating conversation. The
latter immaculately-clad super-stu-
dents need not even shower before
going out; they only put on a freshly
starched shirt as stiff as their per-
sonalities. Boy wonder chooses white
wine (what else?), brie cheese and a
fine assortment of mixed nuts placed
in a bowl on a table littered with
Harper’s Weekly and The New York
Times Book Review. A sophisticated
evening at home describes his goal.
Alcohol is a mere formality, for he
has ‘‘those of similar interest” about
him, or better - a cute blonde so
Aryan that she calls to mind Nazi
propaganda rallies set to Wagner.
Who are we kidding? She wants a
successful husband.

Now to address the former of those
two student types. Joe Party, that is.
Depending on whether he cares to be
spoken to or not, this crazy college
kid catches a quick shower to remove
surface grime and hair Crisco. Toss-
ing back anywhere from four to eight
beers: from his $3.49°12-pack of Goe-
bel’s constitutes an important part of
the cleaning process and is seldom
neglected by anyone worthy of the ti-
tle “hard core.’’ Throughout the de-
toxification procedure, he doesn’t
hear Bacchas summoning him to

For R.E. Lee, masculinity meant caring

University Historian I. Taylor
Sanders II says that with the advent
of coeducation, he frequently hears
the question, ‘‘What can Robert E.
Lee do for young women?” Dr.
Sanders says we'll have to stop think-
ing of Lee simply as a role model for
young men, but will have to expand
our view to include other facets of his
“complete, well-integrated per-
sonality — the nurturing side of
humanity that he picked up from his
mother.”” Following are excerpts
from remarks by Dr. Sanders to the
Alumni Association’s Lee Day
celebration Jan. 18.

Part 1 of a two-part series.

Had Matthew Brady published a
“beefcake” calendar of the Civil
War, Lee would have had a promi-
nent place — perhaps along with the
dashing Stuart, the gallant Pelham,
the flashy Custer and courtly Jeff
Davis. In modern parlance, Lee was
a “hunk.” Go to Lee Chapel and
watch high school girls on tour, Note
the reaction to West's portrait of the
young Lee — that look of grandeur
and kindness, haughtiness and
twinkle; that massive Kirk Douglas
chin and beautifully curved mouth.
Lee was about 5 feet, 11 inches tall.
His shoulders were broad and his
arms and hands large; his torso was
long, so he appeared to be well over
six feet tall; when ramrod straight,
he sat astride a fine horse. His hair
was usually described as ‘‘ebony,”
and possessed a wave that ladies en-
vied. His eyes were nearly black,
deep and intelligent. In battle they
flashed. In times of sorrow, they
readily filled with tears. In society
they twinkled with soft, kind humor.
It’s no wonder he was a social lion.

Despite what some described as
the ‘“‘air of distant mystery’ he
displayed, one person who knew Bob
Lee well was his wife, Mary. They
had known each other since
childhood. She seems to have been a
lot like Lee’s mother, whom the
general worshiped. She appears to
have understood that power her hus-
band had over women (the same ap-
plied to men who often fell under his
spell). She seems to have accepted
all this as a given, often presenting
his swooning admirers with a photo-
graph of her husband. There is no
record that she ever complained
about Lee’s numerous. female
‘friends. He flirted and corresponded
with some of them for years. She
knew her man and she was perfectly

secure. Generations of historians,
trying to find a chink in the great
man’s armor, have tried to ferret out
some sexual indiscretion, some in-
stant of faithlessness. None exist.

Lee loved the company of pretty
young women, preferring them to
male companions. He was the master
of Victorian small talk and the art of
flirtation. For women, this meant
that they became ‘‘daft’’ about hand-
some cavaliers (remember we are
talking about a generation raised on
the chivalry of Walter Scott). They
flattered, they gushed and blushed
and made small jokes.

For Lee, flirtation meant enjoyable
conversations with young women,
especially his daughter’s friends;

bing, some of the catty local ladies
—and they were no worse than their
husbands — made comments about
Mrs. Lee, who was crippled with
rheumatism and confined to a
wheelchair. One belle said that “‘if it
would please God to take poor cousin
Mary Lee — she suffers so —wouldn’t
these Richmond women campaign
for cousin Robert.” As for the
general, one reported, he ‘‘holds all
admiring females at arm’s length.”
The Lees spent much of their mar-
ried life apart. He was often station-
ed far from home and desperately
missed his family. Mary, who will-
ingly put up with the problems of be-
ing an army wife, presented Lee with
seven children in 17 years and grew

 

“Lee was such a great man because he
was a complete human being. He was so
masculine that he could afford to display
what we might stereotype as feminine, nur-

turing virtues.”

 

many ceremonial gallantries; lots of
teasing and doses of mild irony in-
terspersed with puns. Lee’s sense of
humor was gentle; his courtesy sim-
ple and without pretense. He seemed
more interested in hearing about
their children than in talking politics
with the husbands. He also had an
abiding interest in flowers and
gardens, and demonstrated his
descriptive powers when he wrote of
the beauties of nature and her
creatures. Such topics made for
ready sources of conversation in
feminine society.

Rachel Lyons, the Jewish belle of
wartime Richmond, defined as ‘‘a
mere pretense of lovemaking, a
semblance of love, not the reality. As
soon as love itself was waked, it was
no longer a flirtation.’’ She said that
she did not include kissing as legiti-
mate in flirtation. Some women
believed, though, that in a flirtation
kissing was necessary ‘“‘to keep a
man on‘a string.’’ Miss Lyons said
that ‘‘Those sorts of freedom” are
“horrid — I never let a man kiss
me.’’ Lee understood the rules and
mastered all the conventions of 19th
cehtury courtly love.

In the hothouse atmosphere of
Richmond besieged, with its intrigue,
petty gossip and: political backstab-

to become courageously self-suffici-
ent. Before the war, when the family
was together, Mrs. Lee provided an
atmosphere of gentleness and ten-
derness that encouraged Lee’s ex-
pansive, cheerful spirit. Only when
Lee encountered surly jealousies and
other pressures of wartime, did
observers start referring to the cold
reserve of Robert E. Lee, detested
quarrelsome pettiness and back-
biting. He tried to stay above the con-
tentiousness that surrounded him.
This amiable man did have a temper,
which he usually controlled. He suf-
fered fools with great courtesy and
patience. He went to any lengths to
avoid a direct clash with an an-
tagonist. It is probable that he cod-
dled some subordinates that he
should have dressed down or sacked.
Biographer Douglas Southall Free-
man thinks that may have been one
of his few weaknesses as a soldier.
Early in the war, during his failures
in western Virginia, Lee’s soft-
heartednéss won for him the title
“Granny” Lee. A later nickname,
“Ole Spade Lee,’’ celebrated his
habit of making his troops dig in for
self-protection.

The point I wish to make is a sim-
ple one. Lee was such a great man
because he was a complete human

being. He was so masculine that he
could afford to display what we
might stereotype as feminine, nur-
turing virtues. This was seen best
when, as a teen-ager, he nursed his
invalid mother. In one of the most
telling comments made about Lee,
she said, ‘“‘What will I do without
him? He had been both a son and a
daughter to me.”

Lee was a gentle nurse to Mary
during the last years of his life, en-
joying a household filled with women
on a campus surrounded by young
men who worshipped him. He
mothered his 400 lads and wrote long
letters to their parents. In one of my
favorite reports, after congratulating
the folks at home on their son’s fine
grades, he noted that their boy had
spent $100 more than necessary. “‘A
student only requires (what is suffi-
cient) for his comfortable sub-
sistence,”’ he wrote. ‘‘More than that
distracts him in his studies. More-
over, every young man must learn
how to practice economy. It is as
necessary to his success in life as ap-
plication; tor ne should learn self-
control.”’ Lee, that most masculine of
warriors, cared for all those under
his protection or direction like a pro-
verbial mother hen. Lee expected his
faculty to ‘‘observe the stage drivers’
rule’ when dealing with weak
students. ‘‘Always take care of the
poor horses,”’ he told them.

He goes on to obliquely criticize the
parents for indulging the boy.
“Parents who are solicitous for the
welfare of their sons cannot too
earnestly impress upon them these
principles.” Imagine a modern col-
lege president, even with armies of
bureaucrats and word processing
machines, keeping such close tabs on
his undergraduates. Today, Lee’s let-
ter is a rebuke to the new trinity of
consumerism that is held so dear by
many self-indulgent college
students: M.B.A., BMW and LLL.
Bean.

 

The Ring-tum Phi invites readers
to submit letters to the editors. Let-
ters should be typed or printed neat-
ly double-spaced on one side of a
piece of paper. Letters must be
received by 5 p.m. Tuesday.

Either leave your letter in The
Ring-tum Phi box, upstairs in the
Student Center, bring it by The Phi
office, Room 200 of the Student Cen-
ter, or mail it to us at P.O. Box 899,

 

 

feast, because he doesn’t know who
that is, rather he grabs sounds of a
distant rebel yell calling him to bat-
tle. Joe, once he is out, prefers mar-
tinis with a sealed bottle of vermouth
on the side, or simply shots of import-
ed vodka or tequila chased with cold
draft beer. Ardently contending that
he truly appreciates the taste of those
first two to three shots. We know bet-
ter, but, hey, after five it doesn’t mat-
ter anyway.

Joe knows how to start: beer, then
shots, then shots and beer, then any-
thing with a proofed label is fair
game. Cardinal rule 1: The buzz
must not descend gently upon a real
partier. His spontaneous nature pre-
fers to feel as if he has been struck
with a large blunt instrument in the
hinder portions of his skull. One mo-
ment sober, the next a dream vision.
Suddenly, all women transform into
Christie Brinkley and that myster-
ious new-found courage goes to work.
Terrible profound and eloquent is the
reveler, periodically discontinuing
speech, giving those around him time
to write down his pithy pearls and
also providing himself the opportuni-
ty to swab the drivel off his chin. His
orations are further interrupted by
visits to the bathroom which he so
cleverly terms “‘shaking hands with
the unemployed,’’ and by that well-
known outburst, “‘I’m soooo wasted.”
In the restroom, Joe often discovers
a noticeable lack of motor coordina-
tion and the corresponding poor
‘ein 7

Blazing drunk, our stand-up philo-
sopher may drift from a local bar toa
fraternity party and try on a lamp-
shade or two, yell loudly and be
everybody’s close friend. He may
also stop on his long walk home to
participate in some _ projectile
vomiting. It’s not uncommon for Joe
to make a game of it by pursing the
lips and trying to propel it over the
hood of a car. Subcompacts yield
minimum point value, while huge
luxury vehicles really charge the
point total. Sloppiness detracts from
one’s score, particularly the deposi-
tion of ‘‘party funk’’ on one’s jean
jacket. Tired yet experiencing a deep
feeling of accomplishment, the par-
tying pioneer pours himself into bed,
which predictably moves at warp
speeds. Periodic relief sessions and
rehydration drills are dispersed
throughout the night, serving to fluc-
tuate the linear nature of Joe’s EEG
and ensuring wake-up.

The next day, our Skid Row bum
impersonator finds himself classified
as a couch potato, moving seldomly,
if ever, to acquire food, liquid or to
change the channel. By about 6
o’clock, things begin looking up for
Joe. He can move in a relatively sta-
ble manner and the thin veneer of
semi-alcoholic sweat has dissipated
from his skin. Preparation begins
again. Ask you why he readies him-
self for another night of drinking?
Simple — it’s Saturday and he is Joe
Party Animal. Go get em, Tiger.

Chief Editors
Mike Allen

Bruce Potter

Managing Editor
“The Back Page” Editor ....

Circulation Manager

is otherwise independent.

 

 
 
 

PN I ced CEN E KS Ceol Cheers in
Editorial Page Editor ................5.
Photography Editor ................45.

Advertising Manager...................
CRPPGOMINED ccs c cere ccesetccccseserss

 

Is abortion
an illness?

OUR VIEW

 

By Sheila Dennen and
Pamela Stallsmith

One obstacle that members of the
Washington and Lee community
must overcome next year when the
University becomes coeducational is
the tendency to overlook women's
concerns. Many men cannot or will
not empathize with the problems that
women, both past and present, face.
These include discrimination, sexual
abuse and, most importantly, the
right to control their own bodies. B.
Scott Tilley’s Jan. 24 My View col-
umn purports an opinion on the con-
troversial subject of abortion that we
believe is an unsympathetic misin-
terpretation of how abortion affects
society.

Mr. Tilley argues that abortion, ‘‘a
sickness in itself,’ is threatening the
well-being of the “‘Great American
Dream.” His dream has become a
nightmare, a nightmare in which the
villain of abortion is a contributing
symptom to the growing immaturity
of American society.

Several important points are neg-
lected in his article. The most ob-
vious is his lack of compassion and
empathy. Abortion for any woman is
a painful experience, both physically
and emotionally. The decision is not
made glibly or casually. The trauma
a woman endures is carried not for a
nine-month term but for years after-
wards. When a woman finds she is
unexpectedly pregnant, she must
make quick, rational decisions that
will affect the rest of her life. This
does not mean that she enjoys the de-
cision she is making; she is doing it
out of necessity.

Mr. Tilley refers to ‘‘an immature
society”’ that seeks to evade’respon-
sibility. We believe that it is the mark
of a mature society that these women
realize that they may not be mature
enough or simply not ready to care
for a child. Society has to open its
eyes to the needs and desires of to-
day’s women. Women will not be
thrust into unwanted situations with-
out any viable choices.

When a husband and wife are ea-
gerly planning a family and are an-
ticipating the arrival of a child, preg-
nancy can be one of the most joyful
experiences. However, when a wo-
man is raped and finds herself preg-
nant, itis another story. It appears as
if we may soon find ourselves in a
society where the most fundamental
civil liberty is suppressed: the free-
dom to control our bodies.

Abortion is a moral ambiguity. As
we said, it is not a decision lightly
made. Judgment cannot be passed on

, Someone who has undergone the

traumatic experience of abortion be-
cause different circumstances result
in different decisions and solutions.
Who are we to judge the moral cali-
ber of a woman who has had an abor-
tion? The issue is not whether abor-
tion is in some perverse way aiding
the downfall of American society.
The issue is not whether abortion is
right or wrong. The issue is that a
woman should have the right to con-
trol her own body.

We are not condemning Mr. Tilley.
Everyone has a right to his own view.
Freedom of speech was one of the
leading principles on which our coun-
try was founded. We are merely sug-
gesting that there are several sides to
the abortion issue, and that in order
to understand its totality all aspects
must be considered. Before advocat-
ing the elimination of abortion, the
consequences of such an action would
have to be thoroughly investigated.
Abortion is not the easiest way out;
there is no simple solution for such a
complex issue, That is why everyone
should attempt to understand all
angles of of the problem. We live ina
multi-faceted democracy, not a one-
sided autocracy.

*-_ * *&

Dennen and Stallsmith attend Ran-
dolph - Macon Woman's College. Den-
nen is a junior from Garden City,
N.Y., and a political science major.
Stallsmith, a senior from Virginia
Beach, is majoring in communications
and political science.

SST
Che Ring-tum Phi

Business Manager

William Schoeffler

send ebescéenceteiesessscc as Paul Foutch

oeseetesesesia Reade Williams
.... Cotton Puryear

CHIOV UNOS ULIGNONDNOLIN Asa cad Mike Stachura

UCU Alex Bryant
Sc RAGEEIAG Chris Bowring

Chris Gareis

Advertising Salesmen .... Chuck Eracken, Hank Greenberg, Eric Hancock, Jeff Kimbell,

Rob Tolleson

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1985, Page 3

Students: Emotion is key to ‘State of Union’

The Ring-tum Phi sponsored a forum last night in which
five student leaders watched President Reagan's State of
the Union address together and then had a discussion of the
speech.

The participants were: Sam Dalton, secretary of the stu-
dent body; Cole Dawson, president of the student body; Pat
Hayden, president of the College Republicans; Jim Kerr,
president of Kathekon, the student alumni association; and
Ken Nankin, president of Pi Sigma Alpha, the politics
honor association.

Edited excerpts of the discussion follow. The moderator
was Mike Allen.

Moderator: In President Reagan’s previous State of
the Union addresses, the budget deficit was a big issue
and he talked a lot about it. Tonight, he barely mention-
edit. A lot of what he said was what we can call the four
f’s: faith, freedom, family and the future. Cole, do you
think this was a lot of apple pie and motherhood stuff, or
did you sense some substance tonight?

Dawson: I think he tried to appeal to people’s emo-
tions, but I think for the last four years that’s what he’s
stood for. He has tried to build stronger values in Amer-
ica, and so while that is just an emotional appeal, I do
think it has substance with what he’s trying to do. I
think that when people believe in America, they feel
better about themselves, and that makes them more
productive and happy.

Dalton: I think using the four f’s was a great way to
structure the speech — he went off on each one of those
and he was very effective at developing what he had to
say. I think of course in the last four or four-and-a-half
years there’ve been gains from what he’s done. He’s not
afraid to pat himself on the back for it, and he shouldn’t
be.

Moderator: You talk about some of these gains. One
of the things he said tonight was that a great industrial
giant has been reborn. Ken, do you think the people in
Detroit and Pittsburgh would agree with that?

Nankin: I’d have to say that from the standpoint of
the captains of industry, it’s been reborn, especially
with deregulation and laxer enforcement of rules than
in the past. But people who are unemployed will dis-
agree. Unfortunately, with this movement toward free
enterprise, certain sectors are going to have to suffer
for a while. With the movement away from steel and in-
to plastics and technological innovation, I think people
are going to have to suffer in the short term and
hopefully enjoy prosperity in the long run.

Moderator: When Reagan mentioned the word ‘‘com-
passion”’ tonight, either by accident or by design CBS’s
cameras zoomed in on Stockman. Pat, you’re Mr. Re-
publican: Do you think this fairness issue is something
that’s going to continue to dog the Reagan Administra-
tion, or is this something that they've overcome?

Hayden: It’ll probably continue to dog him, but it’s
more a philosophical expression of how government
should be run than how government is run. Most con-
servative Americans believe that welfare and food
stamps and housing subsidies and things like that just
aren’t the way to go anymore. It’s not that they’re not
compassionate — it’s just that they don’t think that’s
the way to do it. It’s been tried for 40 years now, and it
hasn’t done much good, so now we're going to try some-
thing else. The liberals paint it as a fairness issue, but I
don’t think it is. They’re trying to spread independence
by spreading opportunity.

Kerr: I have trouble dealing with to what extent

Sam Dalton makes a point during last night’s discus-
sion about the President’s State of the Union address as

fairness is a relative term. That’s where I disagree with
you. There has to be some amount of federal involve-
ment. His idea tonight of letting people own their own
federal housing is the line that I think his issues need to
take — to give them more responsibility and involve
them on a more gradual scale than I think Reagan has
done. I think you can’t just cut people off cold turkey.
Maybe people have been too dependent in the past, but I
think Reagan has been a little bit overzealous in cor-
recting that.

Moderator: Ken a few minutes ago mentioned the
captains of industry and the fact that they seem to be
benefiting from the Reagan program. Pat, there is — I
think you will agree — a perception that Reagan’s pro-
grams have hurt poor people more than they have hurt
people at higher income levels. Is that perception unfair
or inaccurate?

Hayden: Which programs? Overall, I would say it’s
inaccurate. In specific instances, I’m sure it’s true for
some people. But the way a lot of people look at it is that
the rising tide lifts all boats, so if you improve the eco-
nomy overall, you’re helping everybody in the long run.
I’m sure that if you look at the short run for a lot of fam-
ilies, they have been hurt in the last few years.

Dawson: You've got inflation at a three-year average
of 3.9 percent. Although these programs have benefited
the rich more than the poor, a lowered inflation rate like
that means that the poor people can buy more for their
dollar. I think that’s what’s extremely important. If this
huge deficit catches up with us and we have to really
start paying this off, inflation will jump and interest
rates will fly and it may hurt us down the road, but so
far, I think it’s helping the whole economy. It’s amazing
— inflation is the lowest in 17 years.

Kerr: You mention the deficit, and I don’t think
Reagan really addressed the current deficit as much as
he addressed the future. I found it interesting — this

He died to
take away your sins.

Not your mind.

You don't have to stop thinking when you walk into

an oe Church. Come and
aith and thought exist toget

: us in an nee where

ver ina spirit of fellowship.

The Episcopal Church

the Canterbury Fellowship

A Ministry of R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal €

hurch

and The Episcopal Diocese of Southwestern Virginia,

 

   
  

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Cole Dawson (left) and Ken Nankin (right) listen. All
three students are seniors at Washington and Lee.

might just be my own Democratic background — that
he didn’t stay on that subject or give much time to it. I
think it was a glaring lack of time devoted to that area
of the speech as compared to others. It’s understand-
able, but I think it was obvious that he skirted around
the issue and moved on to sunnier subjects.

Moderator: One of the areas he moved on to was the
social issue realm. He said that abortion is either the
taking of human life or it isn’t. Jim, which is it?

Kerr: I don’t know. I think in the abortion issue, it’s
interesting that he had a woman there who tends the
children of heroin addicts. I think if an anti-abortion law
is passed, the business will go up substantially. Nobody
wants the kids when they get here. Nobody wants abor-
tion, but nobody wants to deal with them once they get
here.

Dawson: But do you think that the people that lady
deals with are the type that can afford abortions any-
way, or do they do them illegally, with coat hangers or
whatever?

Kerr: People know it’s a possibility, so it’s either go-
ing to be done in a back alley on top of a dumpster witha
coat hanger or it’s going to be done in a sterile.en-
vironment of a clinic by trained personnel who know
what they’re doing. It’s a reality, and either the hus-
band’s going to punch his wife in the stomach and kill
the kid, or she’s going to a clinic to have it done. The
moral issue is different. It’s a known fact, and once peo-
ple know that something’s a possibility, you can’t just
legislate it out of their minds.

Dawson: Once they realize that it is illegal and that
the only way they’re going to be able to have an abor-
tion is through some unsterile or dangerous method...

Kerr: I think it’ll be done.

Dawson: But maybe not as much. People go around
now, I think, and a lot of people in college just say, ‘‘If
she gets pregnant, we’ll have an abortion — it only costs

  

7:30 P.M.

this ‘Yoourrr car’’?

East Nelson Street

 

Sigma Delta Chi meeting
Monday, Feb. 11

Lexington Motor Sales
Wants To Know

¢ Does your car hesitate when you’re trying to
outrun Sweet Briar Security Guards?
¢ Do Mary Baldwin women laugh and say, “Is

Well this won’t happen if you get your car in
shape at

Lexington Motor Sales

WEL Students Receive a 15%

discount on all work
We'll Even Mail the Bill Home to Your Parents!

Call 463-2116 for an appointment

MasterCard, Visa, American Express, Diner’s Club Accepted

Discount Variety Store

Open 9 to 9, Monday - Saturday
1 to 6 Sunday

463-7101

  

$300 and I have all kinds of money.”

Nankin: That’s a mistake that he’s making — if this
law every gets through Congress, he doesn’t have any
kind of Planned Parenthood program. I agree that it’ll
never be passed.

Hayden: It doesn’t need to be passed — I don’t really
know why he said it like that. The way that any anti-
abortion move will come is from the Supreme Court. Al-
so, just because abortion is a reality, that’s no reason
for the government to condone it — noreason at all.

Moderator: Is there not a third option besides condon-
ing it and outlawing it? Is there some middle ground?

Dalton: I agree with that — I don’t think you have to
take a stand either way. I think it’s an issue you're go-
ing to hear an awful lot about in the next year. Reagan’s
going to take his big stand. I don’t really understand it
being a major issue — maybe it’s because of Reagan’s
image of American apple pie and everything.

Nankin: I thought he’d be a lot more specific in his ad-
dress, especially in terms of a lot of his budget cuts for
the middle class. For these four years, he doesn’t have
the specter of re-election, so I thought he would without
fear say certain things and touch on some of his cuts. It
seemed to me that he was very general, just like he was
in his first address four years ago.

Moderator: One thing he said is that his tax reform
will not be a tax increase in disguise. That’s pretty
specific. Do you doubt he was sincere about that?

Nankin: He hasn’t kept some of his promises. In The
Post today there was a large article in which they went
back to the campaign trail and brought out quotes.
There’s no way you can reconcile some of the things he
said with some of the things he’s done.

Moderator: You all are student leaders. The percep-
tion is that Washington and Lee students are a) more
politically aware than the average student and b) quite
conservative. Are these perceptions accurate?

Nankin: I think they have a more limited scope of in-
terests — they’re very aware of things that affect them
personally. Few people here know anything about or
care about assistance to Third World nations. But a lot
of people here are interested in and know facts about
the tax plan.

Kerr: This is such a sheltered environment. If you go
down to Chapel Hill, they’re more interested in the cut-
backs on student loans. Pegple here come from such
similar backgrounds. You’re not going to have a protest
on the Hill about cutbacks in student loans. People are
aware of what’s going to affect them later in life.

Dawson: I can’t speak for people out of the C-School,
really, but I think the Commerce School people do read
The Wall Street Journal and business magazines and
newsmagazines. People do read the newspaper in the
morning before they go to class, so I think students are
pretty aware. I’m not sure how that compares with
other schools, but I do know that students here are in-
terested in what’s going on.

Dalton: I think first of all that students aren’t as
aware as they think they are. I think that a lot of
students think that because we know a little bit about
CIA covert activities or whatever that we know
everything that’s going on around us. I think we have an
elitist attitude when we think we know a lot more than
everbody else does. Conservative? Yes. I think that’s a
product of our backgrounds — that’s just the way it is.
We are all from the same type of families more or less,
there are minimal minorities here and we just have
homogeneous views.

 

    

   

Reid 203

    
   
       
       
   
       

  

   
      
      

  

Lexington

  
 

 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1985

Trading places

Professor interns with former student in Washington

 

By JAY WERNER
Staff Reporter

 

Some interns spend their time
opening mail and answering the
phone, but one intern from Washing-
ton and Lee had a somewhat more in-
teresting experience — he spent part
of the time within a few feet of Presi-
dent Reagan.

That may be unusual, but what’s
even more surprising is that the in-
tern wasn’t a student — it was a pro-
fessor.

Assistant Journalism Professor
Robert J. de Maria is taking the win-
ter term off to work with Cinema
Sound, a video production company
in Washington, D.C.

An unusual aspect of this intern-
ship is that de Maria is working for
one of his former students, William
R. Parks Jr., of the W&L Class of
1982.

Parks, 25, is the senior editor for

Cinema Sound and helped arrange
the internship for his old professor.
He is also de Maria's host in Wash-
ington — de Maria sleeps on Parks’
couch when he is in Washington to
work.

de Maria says he is doing the in-
ternship so he can observe the tech-
niques in lighting and sound record-
ing that Cinema Sound utilizes in its
productions. He says that after this
training he will be able to apply the
techniques in his work here and teach
them to his classes.

Cinema Sound is the company that
produces, among other projects, the
United Way public service announce-
ments that are seen during National
Football League telecasts. de Maria
worked on the United Way spots seen
during this year’s Super Bowl.

He also recently worked with the
crew that shot a public service an-
nouncement for the Special Olympics
done by Reagan in the White House.

Honor society elects 41

Thirty-eight Washington and Lee
undergraduates and three 1984 grad-
uates have been elected into mem-
bership in W&L’s Gamma of Virginia
Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.

Phi Beta Kappa was installed at
W4&L in 1911 and annually elects a li-
mited number of students of out-
standing character and superior aca-
demic records.

The newly elected members will be
initiated into the national fraternity
on March 14, when the W&L chapter
holds its annual Phi Beta Kappa Con-
vocation. The speaker for the convo-
cation will be Dr. Samuel Spencer,
executive director of the Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges
and former president of Davidson
College.

Elected to Phi Beta Kappa are:

1984 Graduates: Alfred J. Gannon
Jr., Anthony J. Interrante and G.
Leighton Stradtman.

Seniors: Martin A. Berisford III,
Jeffrey P. Blount, C. Joseph Cadle,
Luke L. Chang, David F. Connor,
Samuel P. Dalton, Charles R. DePoy,
Jeffrey D. Dixon, David A. Eustis,
Apostolos G. Grekos, Andrew G. Har-
ing, David H. Jones, Kevin H. Kelley,
Clark J. Lewis, John D. Long, Mich-
ael C. Lord, William A. Maner,
James K. Murphy, Kenneth S. Nan-
kin, G. Bruce Potter, Robert A. Sch-
legel, Scot C. Schultz, Michael M.
Shelton, B. Scott Tilley, Jay M. Wal-
lace, Kevin A. Welch and Peter T.
Wilbanks.

Juniors: Edwin L. Barnes, John-
Paul Bouffard, Joseph C. Campbell
Jr., Henry Exall IV, D. Shawn Har-
vey, Kenneth L. Lindeman, John D.
McCaffery, Jeffrey A. Roper, Luis
Sa, Robert E. Treat and C. Reade
Williams.

U.Va. honor appeal
put off until Feb. 17

CHARLOTTESVILLE — An open
honor appeal hearing for a former
University of Virginia student has
been postponed until Feb. 17.

The hearing for Monique R. Faw-
cett, convicted in a September public
trial of resubmitting a test that had
been altered, originally was schedul-
ed for last Saturday.

Late Friday evening, though, Faw-
cett introduced a new witness, whom
her accusors did not have an oppor-
tunity to interview before the hear-
ing. This led to postponement of the
hearing.

The appeal hearing, before five
members of the university’s Honor
Committee, will determine if any
procedural error or denial of any
rights occurred during the investiga-
tion or the original trial, according to
Rob Buell, Honor Committee vice
chairman in charge of trials.

If a majority of the appeal panel
decides in Fawcett’s favor, a new
trial will be held later in the year.

Surprise Your Valentine
Come in and see us at

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers
11 W. Nelson St.

J SHERIDAN
R. SHERIDAN

463-2022

Watches and Jeweiry Repairs
Gifts for All Occasions
We have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.

 

| AllStyles

.
of
.
fone
fe

a
*

| VUARNET”
ey ee

_ Catalog Orders
Accepted

 

 

Call: Barry

 

5555

“My official title is production in-
tern,” de Maria said. ‘I do what any
student would do in an internship.
For the Special Olympics spot at the
White House, I helped with the sound
and the lighting.”’

de Maria said that the security at
the White House is even tighter than
one might expect. He said a compu-
ter check is run on members of the
production crew before they are al-
lowed to enter the White House. Once
inside, everyone must pass through a
metal detector, and the equipment
cases had to be searched and also
checked by a dog trained to detect ex-
plosives.

de Maria was especially impressed
by the missiles on the White House
roof.

Of the President, de Maria said,
“He is very good. They don’t call him
‘one-take Ron’ for nothing.” de Mar-
ia also said that at one point Reagan
waved to him hut another member

of the crew said he waves to every-
body.

Other than the learning he has done
on the job, de Maria said he also has
had time to cultivate contacts for
future internships for W&L students
and even secured a few donations for
W&L’s Department of Journalism
and Communications.

When it was announced at the Cin-
ema Sound company that Bill Parks’
former professor was coming to
Washington to do an internship under
him., the joke around the office was
“it makes you wonder what de Maria
taught Parks.”’

While de Maria says that the
excitement of working in Washington
and everything he has learned is
great, the internship has its draw-
backs.

“T really missed my family,’ he
said. ‘I spent a fortune on long dis-
tance phone calls. It’s good to be
home.”’

Washington Post writer

scheduled to

Political columnist and commenta-
tor Mark Shields will speak in Lee
Chapel on March 5 at 8 p.m. as part of
the Contact '84 speaker symposium.

Shields’ Washington Post column is
syndicated across the country, and
his analyses of politics, the press and
American life have appeared in a

number of magazines.
In addition, Shields is host of a
weekly television show ‘Inside

Washington,”’ which is carried na-
tionwide on the PBS network. He also
does a weekday commentary on NBC
Radio in Washington, D.C. Shields
has appeared on both CBS’s and
NBC’s coverage of political conven-
tions and elections.

Shields, who also has managed po-

 

talk March 5

 

MARK SHIELDS

litical campaigns in 38 states and
taught American political science
courses, is described as ‘‘a bright
and humorous speaker” who ‘‘dis-
penses wit and wisdom about Ameri-
can politics.”’

Ex-cadet files motion

From Staff Reports

 

Jeffrey R. Pack, the former
Virginia Military Institute cadet who
has accused Commonwealth’s Attor-
ney Beverly C. ‘“‘John”’ Read of viola-
ting the principle of lawyer-client
confidentiality, filed a motion last
week claiming the drug charges
against him are repetitive and un-
clear.

Pack, who left VMI without grad-
uating and now lives in Springfield,
was indicted Sept. 4 on six counts of
distributing the hallucinogen
psilocybin during July 1983. He is
free on a $10,000 property bond.

In his Jan. 31 motion, he states that
because each of the six counts on the
indictment is identical, he is unable
to distinguish among them and there-

fore is hampered in preparing his de-
fense.

The motion refers to the ‘“‘time-
vagueness”’ and ‘“‘multiplicity’’ of the
six identical counts.

It states that the indictment
“would permit proof of six sales of
psilocybin to the same person on the
same day, or of one Sale to six per-
sons on the same day, or of one sale
to six persons on different days, or of
six sales to the same person, each
sale ona different day.”

Circuit Judge Rudolph Bumgard-
ner III has tentatively scheduled a
hearing on the Pack case for March
5. Because Read may have to testify,
the Henrico County Commonwealth’s
Attorney has been designated prose-
cutor for the case.

 

2152 Sycamore Ave.

 

Four Seasons
Florist & Greenery

For the most important date of the year,
Valentine’s Day. Why not trust the area’s
most experienced florist?

Four Seasons Florist
A dozen roses - $35.00
But order early.

We've been satisfying lovers longer

261-3930

Buena Vista, Va.

 

 

Fancy Dress Rentals

 

Place Your Order Now!

eBest Service & Pricese

Peak Collar Tuxedos For Sale
Wing Collar Shirts
Beautiful Cumberbund Sets
Full Dress

Check our prices and order

before break

 

College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

 

Coed, UC discuss
rep, ‘Little Sisters

 

By ANDY HOPPES
Staff Reporter

Preliminary proposals for the addi-
tion of a female ad hoc member to the
Student Control Committee and a
“Little Sisters’ program were dis-
cussed by members of the University
Council and the Coeducation Steering
Committee on Thursday.

Dean of Students Lewis G. John,
president of the University Council,
emphasized that the matters discuss-
ed were not formal proposals. John
said the purpose of the meeting was
to give the coed committee a chance
to air its ideas before a ‘‘sounding
board.”

“T think it’s a helpful discussion. It
provides a forum where there are
students, faculty and administrators
soa variety of views can be express-
ed,” John said.

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela Simpson said that the coed
committee will have its formal
recommendations regarding Student
Control and “‘Little Sisters’ ready on
Tuesday. Simpson said she was re-
luctant to release the full text of the
tentative proposals because changes
might be made by the subcommittee.

John said the idea behind the pro-
posal to ensure female representa-
tion on the Student Control Commit-
tee next year was to ask the Execu-
tive Committee to appoint a female
student as a non-voting, ad hoc mem-
ber of the Student Control. If a
woman is elected one of the freshmen

Grand jury

A local grand jury Monday indicted
a man on charges stemming from the
Dec. 21 burglary of the Rockbridge
County house of five Washington and
Lee students.

Edward L. Mohler Jr. was charged
with five counts of breaking and
entering and five counts of grand
larceny. Listed as victims were W&L
juniors Paul Davey, David DeHoll,
Rusty Johnson, Townes Pressler and
Jim Strader.

The grand jury also certified an ar-
son charge against Bryan M. Walrod
of Tennessee, who has been charged
with setting fire to an occupied Vir-
ginia Military Institute building on
May 5.

Coeducation:

&3

What Will It Mean?

 

class officers next year, then no ad
hoc female member would be
appointed, John explained.

John said most of the University
Council members seemed to react
favorably to the proposal.

“Tt seemed to me to be a very
sound way of achieving an objective
that is a desirable one,’ John added.

The University Council may re-
commend that the EC appoint the ad
hoc member, but the council has no
power to force the EC to do so if it is
unwilling, John said.

Simpson explained that the ‘‘Little
Sisters’ proposal dealt with whether
such a program should be permitted
at Washington and Lee and what
guidelines should be followed in es-
tablishing a ‘“‘Little Sisters” pro-
gram.

In a “Little Sisters’’ program,
women are invited by a fraternity to
enjoy a special status and relation-
ship with the fraternity, Simpson
said. The women do not become
members in any way, but are merely
invited to participate in the fraterni-
ty’s social activities, she added.

indicts 19

Walrod, 23, was arrested Sept. 27,
and is free on a $10,000 property
bond.

James A. Horne Jr. of Rockbridge
County is charged with four counts of
distributing marijuana during the
summer of 1978 and eight counts of ,
selling it during 1981.

Robert F. Huffman of Buena Vista °
is charged with three counts of dis-
tributing marijuana to a juvenile
during the summer of 1983 and one
count of selling cocaine during Octo-
ber 1983.

The four-man, three-woman grand
jury issued 19 indictments after 2 12
hours of deliberation. The foreman
was Karen Pleva, wife of W&L chem-
istry Professor Michael A. Pleva.

Dean Simpson urges
new coed perspective

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee may
have to make some changes in its
orientation procedure next fall be-
cause of coeducation, Associate Dean
of the College Pamela Simpson told
the EC Monday night.

Simpson stressed the need for stu-
dent interest and input as the Coedu-
cation Steering Committee, which
she heads, prepares for the advent of
coeducation.

Orientation ‘‘is something you all
might want to consider,’’ Simpson
told the EC members. ‘We antici-
pate there will be more recommen-
dations [in all areas] coming out
rather quickly.”’

Emphasizing the potential effect of
coeducation on the honor system,
Simpson told the EC it ‘‘must have a
common-sensical . attitude’ about
how to approach orientation. The
freshmen are now told, for example,
that one aspect of the honor system is
that they can leave doors unlocked
without fear. On a coed campus,
“that may not be the best attitude,”

Simpson said.

Just as a non-voung aa noc femaie;
member will be added to the Student
Control Committee in the fall if no
women are elected as class officers, ,
Simpson said the EC might want to.
consider obtaining a female perspec-
tive when investigating a possible
honor violation.

Simpson indicated a need for the’
KC to be prepared for ‘‘girls-will-be-

girls” incidents that could be con-

strued as honor violations.

Simpson also indicated that cases -

of harassment, either sexual or
otherwise, should be taken to the Stu-
dent Control Committee.

Junior EC representative Michael
Black, a member of the coeducation
committee, said he will be giving the
EC weekly reports on the commit-
tee’s progress for the rest of the year.

The discussion with Simpson was
the only major item on the EC’s
agenda Monday. The EC did not dis-
cuss the proposed alternative calen-
dar, although Vice President James
White, sitting in for President Cole
Dawson, joked that the EC members
should read through the proposal and
“formulate your opinions against it.”

 

 

=

115 S. Main Street

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘‘For your extra pieces of furniture’’

463-2742

 

 

 

=

 

rei h 08 U

| 17 West Nelson Street

More Than Tast Music

*1 Off
All Purchases

Offer good through 2/16/85

     

Lexington, Virginia

 

ee

 

 
 

 

 

By TED LeCLERCQ

It’s ‘Dynasty’ without the
women, it’s “The Dukes of Hazzard”’
gone Detroit; it’s Dirty Harry say-
ing, “Make my day”’; it’s the saga of
boy wonder Lee Iacocca. Batman
would have been proud.

In his autobiography, ‘‘Iacocca,”’
the automobile magnate reveals him-
self as the folksy, capitalist, caped
crusader first at Ford and then at
Chrysler. And although the book is
presented in the same personal, man-
of-the-middle-class style as his com-
mercials, the down-home approach
Iacocca takes only heightens the fas-
cinating contrast with the convol-
uted, egocentric world of Detroit
power politics. His simplistic anec-
dotal style is merely the veneer of a
shrewd corporate manager.

Iacocca is a second generation Ita-
lian immigrant who quickly rises
through the Ford ranks, and he
stages his initial major success with

 

The lacocca d

the development of the Mustang. It
went over in a Big Way.

“In Garland, Texas, a Ford dealer
had fifteen potential customers bid-
ding on a single Mustang in his dis-
play window. He sold it to the highest
bidder — a man who insisted on
spending the night in the car so that
nobody else could buy it while his
check was clearing.”’

“Mustang mania,” as Iacocca
termed it, landed him a promotion to
vice president of the corporate car
and truck group. With his power to
plan all production and marketing of
cars and trucks for both Ford and
Lincoln-Mercury, Iacocca sought to
inject a little joie de vivre into the divi-
sions. And he did. He did it with cars
such as the Mercury Marquis and the
Cougar.

These successes led to Dec. 10,
1970, when Iacocca was appointed to
the presidency of Ford at age 46.
Henry Ford, chairman of the board,
encapsulated the attitude of Ford
corporate management during Iac-

occa’s eight-year tenure as presi-
dent.

“Early in my presidency, Henry
told me his management philosophy.
‘If a guy works for you,’ he said,
‘don’t let him get too comfortable.
Don’t let him get cozy or set in his
ways. Always do the opposite of what
he expects. Keep your people anxious
and off-balance.’” Great working
environment, huh?

Yet Henry Ford still had to deal
with the board of directors, and his
philosophy was once again beautiful-
ly simple. ‘‘When it came time to
meet the board, he, more than most
CEO’s, believed in the mushroom
treatment — throw manure on them
and keep them in the dark.”

Tacocca stayed at Ford until he was
fired on July 13, 1978, despite his
disgust for Henry Ford. The compa-
ny had made roughly $3.5 billion dur-
ing 1977 and 1978. ‘‘Deep down in my
character there must have been a
weakness.” Ah hah, ‘‘a’”’ weakness—
good ‘ole capitalistic greed. “I

BOOKREVIEW

ye eng ee eer =

WITH FULIAM NR

 

wanted that $1 million a year so
much that I wouldn’t face reality.”
Reality came back with a jolt when
Henry Ford fired him because it was
“best for the company.”’

Iacocea’s 32-year stay at Ford may

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1985, Page 5

ynasty in Detroit: Folksy capitalist crusade

have been interesting, but his strug-
gle at Chrysler is gripping. After all,
here’s the real preoccupation with
both revenge and the ‘‘American
Dream.” Although it may sound
trite, it’s hard not to love the rags-to-
riches soap opera that is the Chrysler
story.

The day lacocca took over, Chry-
sler announced its largest loss ever
— a third-quarter deficit of $160
million. It wasn’t just a business with
a few temporary problems or even
several major problems — it was a
corporate miasma. In his first day at
the office, Iacocca noticed a par-
adigm example of the Chrysler atti-
tude — his predecessor’s secretary
was using her office telephone for
private calls. ‘‘When the secretaries
are goofing off, you know the place
has dry rot.’’ Iacocca sweats the
details.

How did Iacocca feel during this
early chaos at Chrysler? ‘When I
thought about it, I was bereft. (That's
a euphemism for feeling lower than

whale shit!) _

lacocca’s biggest battle was for the
loan guarantees. With his humorous
anecdotes aside, he had some serious
comments on the rebuilding indus-
try. “These days, free enterprise has
to make further adjustments. This
time, it has to adapt to a new world
—a world which now includes a form-
idable rival, Japan, and a world
where nobody else is playing by the
rules of laissez-faire.”

For most of his opposition to the
loan guarantees, however, ‘‘federal
help for Chrysler constituted a sac-
rilege, a heresy, a repudiation of the
religion of corporate America.”

Five years to the day after Iacocca
had been fired from Ford, he an-
nounced that Chrysler would pay
back the entire loan seven years
before it was due. At a ceremony in
New York, Chrysler bankers got a
check for $813,487,500.

You know Henry Ford must have
been in the background gnashing his
teeth.

 

 

IFC offers compromise on reform proposal

¥

The Interfraternity Council Tues-
day issued a series of compromise
proposals in response to the report by
last year’s Ad Hoc Committee on
Fraternity Affairs.

“The Interfraternity Council re-
cognizes the report of the President’s
Ad Hoc Committee on fraternities
and after having discussed it, wishes
to respond and compromise through
the following list of proposals,” the
document said.

The student-faculty Student Affairs
Committee will decide which of the
regulations should be adopted.
Highlights of the IFC proposal fol-
low:
~The IFC concedes that the situa-
tion surrounding ‘‘mid-week”’ parties
was unacceptable this year. The
changes that have been implemented
this year, however, are also
unacceptable, and we would like to.
readdress the issue after the Board of

EEOC

0 Continued from Pagel

same lines.”

Wilson also said this week that he
would not comment on the matter.

“T’m surprised she was talking a
lot about it,’’ he said.

Coffey-Bailey said that when Dar-
rell learned that she had filed her
complaint with the EEOC, he gave
administrators a list of her supposed
shortcomings.

She also said she was threatened
with being fired, which is illegal dur-
ing an EEOC investigation, accord-
ing to that agency.

Darrell denied her a raise after she
filed her first complaint, she said,
because he was dissatisfied with her
performance. He had never called
her performance into question before
she filed the complaint, she said.

Then, just before this school year
began, Darrell told her he would give
her a raise in January if she would
drop her charges, she said.

“T refused to drop my charges and
return for a raise I should have got-
ten in the first place,’’ she said.

“At this point I have no respect for
what goes on’’ at W&L, she said. “My

 

 

Trustees has stated its policy. We
feel that the present rules have not
reduced the ‘‘wear and tear” on the
houses, and furthermore has increas-
ed the pressure felt by members who
attend the parties.

~The IFC recommends that each
fraternity provide some kind of re-
ception for parents and alumni on
their respective weekends. No frater-
nity social events may rival any ma-
jor University cultural or sporting
event. As for the problems that arise
from serving beer or other alcoholic
beverages at parties, we feel that this
will take care of itself when the legal
drinking age in Virginia goes to 21
years.

Require the president, house
manager and food manager to live in
the house, plus one other officer who
is an upperclassman.

~All rooms in a fraternity house
must be occupied.

respect for W&L and its administra-
tive role is pretty poor.”’

Because she felt that she could not
work with Darrell, and that the Univ-
ersity would not do anything about it
— including transferring her to
another department — she resigned
at the end of last term, claiming that
she was forced out of her job.

“T said [to Wilson], ‘Why don’t you
let me mark the lines on the football
field? I’d be much happier.’ ”’

At the root of the problem, Coffey-
Bailey said, is the fact that becatise’
W&L is Lexington’s leading employ-
er, workers who feel they may be suf-
fering discrimination and who want
to continue working in Lexington are
encouraged not to press the issue.

Coffey-Bailey said she plans to
move away from Lexington, her
birthplace. “I don’t want to be
around anymore,” she said.

Part of the reason for that is a con-
cern for her welfare and that of her
family, she said.

“My purpose is not to sling mud,
but just to let people know there is a
problem,” she said.

Now that she has reached the
settlement, she said she hopes she
can forget about W&L. “‘Let’s just
say that I got very tired of the whole
thing,”’ she said.

 

Game

 

0 Continued from Page 1

stage’ between abstract ideas and
the dangerous ‘real world.”’

Golliday also found the games a
helpful learning experience. ‘We
learned more in the first four weeks
than we would have all year,” he
Said.

The students have found, though,
that the game is as entertaining as it
is enlightening. ‘‘We could easily
spend eight hours a day on it,’’ Sch-
oeffler said.

“It’s hard to concentrate on other
subjects,’’ Bearup agreed.

The W&L team won the overall
competition in 1982. Bearup said this
year’s team’s chances are very good
and that they are ‘‘very confident.”

Shreiner said that win or lose, the
group has enjoyed the experience.
“We get along really well and are an
aggressive, confident, cohesive
team,” he said.

Administration Professor Joesph
Goldsten acts as adviser to the four
students, and although they hold him
as their chief mentor, he downplays
his role, describing it as that of a
“facilitator.”

“T only tell them to stick to the

PPV PV PIV PVP PVLPVP

 

os

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

LP OLPVLP MP VLE AP OCLP OMAP VAP VAP OMPVLP OME OLE AMP

fundamental theories they’ve learn-
ed,’ he said.

He said the games are valuable be-
cause they can learn the tricks of the
trade very quickly with little or no
risk. ‘“The experience a student gets
is the same he would get in the busi-
ness world,” he explained.

Although there are two dozen
teams in the games, each industry is
comprised of six teams; that is, W&L
is competing with only five other col-
lege-run phone corporations.

Each team is required to react to
the corporate moves and risks taken
by the other five companies in its in-
dustry.

Goldsten said the five companies
W&L is competing with will be kept
secret from the team until the March
convention,

~All fraternities will have election
of officers at a near-uniform time.

» Every house must continue to as-
sess each member $15 per term to be
paid to a reserve fund to be used for
non-capital improvements.

A reserve fund for emergencies
should have at least $12,000.

~The LF.C. urges that every
fraternity switch to the University
billing policy.

Lexington ranked second
in Va. in tax-free property

 

From Staff Reports

Lexington in 1983 had the second-
largest amount of tax-exempt pro-
perty compared to other Virginia
cities, according to a new University
of Virginia study.

The study showed that the 50.3 per-
cent of tax-free real estate that
makes up Lexington was exceeded
only by Portsmouth, which is com-
prised of 58.4 percent tax-exempt
property. The statewide median
among cities is 18.9 percent.

The survey by U.Va.’s Institute of

 

Government found that three out of
four localities with more than 30 per-
cent of their property in the tax-
exempt category were rated as
“poor” or “below average’ on a
fiscal stress index.
' Localities rated ‘‘good”’ on the in-
dex, on the other hand, all had 15 per-
cent or less tax-free land.
Washington and Lee University
and Virginia Military Institute pro-
perty is tax-free, which sharply re-
duces real estate revenues available
to the city. The schools pay a use tax
for city services to partially offset
the shortfall.

 

Drinking

 

O Continued from Page 1

1 to continue drinking.

Each bill now has gone to the other
house. Hargrove said each house pro-
bably will amend the other’s bill to
match its original version.

If both bills are passed by both
houses, the differences between the
bills will be worked out by a confer-
ence committee. If only one bill pass-
es both houses, it would become law
after being signed by Gov. Charles S.
Robb.

Hargrove, who opposed the mili-
tary base amendment, said that Sec-
retary of Defense Caspar Weinber-
ger recently issued a policy state-
ment requiring military personnel to
comply with the drinking laws of the
State in which they are based.

The federal government has
threatened to begin cutting off high-
way funds to states that have not
raised the drinking age to 21 by next
year. Because of this, although some
of his fellow legislators may now op-
pose his drinking age bill, Hargrove
said, ‘‘Ican assure you that by Oct. 1,
1986, they will have changed their
minds.”

Food Services Director Jerry Dar-
rell said a higher drinking age also

would cause some change in the
Cockpit.

“Next year we plan on shifting the
emphasis to our food,’’ Darrell said,
“if we try to rely on beer sales alone,
then we would probably have to
close.”

Darrell pointed out that while these
changes are being made to keep the
Cockpit open after the drinking age is
raised, they are also trying to make
the Cockpit more appealing to the
women who will be attending W&L
next year.

Lexington

Shoe Hospital

We Have A Complete Stock
Of Vibram Sole Sets

3 West Nelson St.

 

 

 

q
4

 

1218. Main

Gifts That Last

From
Valentine Headquarters

R.L. HESS & BRO.

&

ys.

 

463-2833

 

 

 

 

I _ Itt oo :

 

SOK

VISA

 

 

 

at

Aluin-Bennis

Be sure to order you tux before Washington Break!

Also for sale we have in stock:
e Shawl Tuxedos

¢ Cummerbund/Tie Sets
¢ Studs and Suspenders

¢ Formal Shirts

¢ Black Tassle Dress Shoes

Winter sale still in progress
Choice

MasterCard
9-5:30 Monday-Saturday

SV —_— th

+ Fancy Dress is just around the corner!

Date

Special Reduced Rates for tux rentals }\|

5

tC

2 a eS a A A

 

 

Student Charge

Ba ptt tte ttt tonic

 

From Staff Reports

A bill requiring motorists to
wear seatbelts or face a $25 fine
has passed the House of Delegates
and now is before a Senate com-
mittee.

The House passed the bill, 52-48,
Saturday. The Senate Transporta-
tion committee is expected to be-
gin considering the bill next
Thursday.

The bill’s sponsor, Del. Sam
Glasscock, D-Suffolk, said in an
interview he is not sure how the
bill will fare in the Senate, which
has never considered it before.
“T’ve got to appear optimistic, but
I really don’t know,”’ he added.

Glasscock said more than 200
lives could be saved on Virginia
highways each year if motorists
wore seat belts. About 1,000 people
now die in automobile wrecks in
Virginia each year.

“There’s no question that it

 

 

. .
Motorists may have to buckle up

could be very effective,’’ said
Glasscock, adding that the bill
would require little cost on the
part of either the public or the
state.

The only problem, he said, is the
question of personal freedom.

“Should Big Brother be telling
folks to buckle up when they get in
their car?’’ Glasscock asked. “‘I
think it’s a reasonable infringe-
ment on one’s freedom.”’

The bill, which would become
effective Jan. 1, would require
motorists in the front seats of all
cars to wear seat belts. It includes
exemptions for those with medical
problems, rural mail and news-
paper carriers and policemen
transporting prisoners.

The Virginia State Police has
said it ‘‘will not go on a witch-
hunt”’ if the bill is passed, Glass-
cock said, but rather will enforce
the law in conjunction with other
traffic offenses.

 

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.

Mon. - Sat. 8:30 - 6:00
Sun.1-5

 

 

 

 

 

, HODGE PODGE

116 N. Main St.
VALENTINE’S DAY!
FANCY DRESS!

Prepare Your Celebration

With Imported Beer, Cheese,
Crackers, Snack Food, Candy

— Your Basic Party Needs!
Start Planning Your Fun Times
NOW!

  

 

 

 

 

PIZZA

$2 OFF!

SALE:

 

@ Better hurry to your home
town Pizza Hut® restaurant!
It's not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. {§§ So
come on in. Bring the whole

 

Pi,
ie,
iy,
™

    

   

$D ott

$2 off any large pizza

or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut* Pan Pizza!
Hurry; offer expires soon. One
coupon per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

Please present coupon when ordering. Not valid in corm

   
    

San
Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

an
Pizza

 

Hut.

nbination with any oth ffer
cash redemption value © 1983 Pizza Hut. Inc. Good only through

family. ( We'll pile on layers
of pure mozzarella cheese and
all your favorite toppings.
There's no better time to try
our unparalleled Pizza Hut*
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

  
   
 

  

¥

 

Tid

coe

$2 oF

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA
453-7000

1/20 cent po

2-15-85
SPORTS

Cagers drop four in a row

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

Suffering injuries to its two top
scorers and rebounders, the Wash-
ington and Lee basketball team lost
four straight basketball games in the
last week. The Generals are now
11-11 overall with a 5-5 record in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

Senior captain Scott Shannon and
sophomore Jeff Harralson both suf-
fered ankle sprains last week. Shan-
non twisted his ankle with 10 minutes
left in Thursday’s loss to Emory and
Henry and missed games against
Lynchburg and Bridgewater on Sat-
urday and Monday. Harralson turned
his ankle in the Lynchburg loss and
missed last night’s defeat against
Elon.

Down by 20 points in the first half,
the Generals were able to cut the
Fightin’ Christians’ lead to three
points in the final seconds before los-
ing by a final score of 73-68 in the
Elon game last night in the Warner
Center.

Lex Fitzenhagen led the Generals
with 20 points and nine rebounds
while Shannon contributed 13 points
and 11 rebounds despite the nagging
ankle injury. Point guard David
Wilkinson also hit double figures for
W&L, tallying 14 on the evening.
Elon’s Robert Leak led all scorers
with 22.

Elon jumped out to a quick 4-0 lead
but the Generals rallied and tied the
game at six. The tie would not last,

though, as the Fightin’ Christians
proceeded to outscore the Generals
20-10 in the next 11 minutes to lead
36-16 with under four minutes to play
in the half. By the break the Elon
lead had been cut to 14 points at 42-28.

“We were too tentative on de-
fense,’’ said W&L head coach Verne
Canfield about his team’s first stanza
effort.

In the second half, the Generals cut
Elon’s lead down to 11 points several
times, but could not get it below 11 for
much of the final half.

But with 6:20 remaining in the
game, Fitzenhagen banked one high
off the glass while lying on his back to
bring W&L within nine. Shannon fol-
lowed with a basket that brought
W&L within seven at 61-54 with five
minutes remaining.

The Generals weren't done yet,
though. With :56 on the clock, Fitzen-
hagen hit Wilkinson with a fast-break
pass and the senior playmaker hit a
12-foot jumper to cut the lead to
seven. Seconds later and with his
team trailing by five, Shannon can-
ned a pair of free throws to bring the
Generals as close as they would get
at 69-66. Elon, however, was able to
hit its free throws down the stretch
and held on for its 16th win against
six defeats.

“‘We needed to show more patience
on offense in the second half,’’ Can-
field said. He credited the defense
with bringing the Generals back into
the game after trailing by 20 points
earlier in the contest.

The Ring-tum Phi

In other games last week, the Gen-
erals suffered three ODAC setbacks.
W&L dropped an 88-85 overtime
game at Emory and Henry Thurs-
day, lost 87-73 to Lynchburg Saturday
minus the services of Shannon, and,
without both Shannon and Harralson,
fell at Bridgewater, 83-59.

Although he played last night in
what Canfield described as a cour-
ageous performance, Shannon’s in-
jury has not yet healed. Things are

 

It’s a tangle of arms as Generals Lex Fitzenhagen and Harmen Harden

just dim for the sophomore Harral-
son’s injured ankle. Canfield said
that he really doesn’t know when the
forward will be able to return to the
court.

Saturday, the Generals take their
injury-plagued team to Roanoke to
face the arch-rival Maroons, current-
ly in second place in the ODAC. The
teams are scheduled to tip it off at
7:30 p.m. The game will be broacast
live by WLUR-FM.

(light jerseys) battle Elon’s Rafael Hernandez (25) and Eric Blair (35) for a
first half rebound in last night’s game at the Warner Center.

Grapplers down two more foes, 11-2-1

By STEVE POCKRASS
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s wrestling
team raised its record to 11-2-1 with
victories over the University of
Scranton, 29-23, and host LaSalle,
36-18, at a triangular meet in Phila-
delphia last weekend.

Through a solid team effort, the
Generals were able to manage the
wins despite being without the ser-
vices of senior heavyweight Mark
Weaver and 190 |b. captain Jeff Dix-

on due to injuries.

Opening the attack on Scranton
was 118 lb. grappler Steve Castle,
who pinned his opponent at 3:35.
Scanton tied the contest at 6-6, but a
pin by Steve Pecora at 134 lbs., an 8-6
victory by Larry Anker at 142 lbs.
and a 10-2 win by Tim Walker at 150
Ibs. moved the Generals into a 19-6
lead. After the Generals lost at 158
Ibs., Win Phillips rolled up a second
period technical fall at 167 lbs., while
177 lb. grappler Joe O’Neil notched
an 11-1 victory.

Ruggers expect good team

 

From Staff Reports

 

The Washington and Lee Rugby
Club is expected to pick up where it
left off from its fall season, according
to captain Bill Jones, and that could
mean the squad’s best season ever.

“IT think this is going to be our best
season ever. We have a full squad of
guys who really want to play,”’ said
Jones, a junior, after the group’s first
practice Tuesday.

In the fall, the ruggers went 6-3,
and earned a ranking among the top
five teams in the state, according to
Jones. Scoring leaders were Jones,

David Arthur, P.J. lerardi and Pete
Papasavas.

That same group with some addi-
tions should steer the ruggers again
in their spring season. Along with
those four, Jones said leadership
should come from Greg Hair, in his
last season with the club, George
Boras, who plays the hooker position
(the player who controls the ball in
the middle of a scrum), and Nick
Berrents, who was out during the fall
season but should be a ‘“‘real asset”’
at scrum half, according to Jones.

The club, which practices on Mon-
days, Wednesdays and Thursdays,
has its first match March 2 at home
against New River.

Generals skate over LBC

 

By STEVE CAREY
Special to The Phi

 

The Washington and Lee hockey
club opened its 1985 season with a 10-2
victory over Liberty Baptist College
Saturday at Lancerlot Arena in Vin-

 

 

PLL QUARTZ SYNTH/FM OPTIMIZERIAUTO-
SCAN & MANUAL/42-PRESETS/NOISE & HISS
REDUCIAUTO REVIDOLBY/DNR/LOCK'G FF
& RWIMETAUSEP BASS-TRI4-WAY FADER!
CLOCK-FREQ DISP/TAPE DIR & FM LED/
EURO LOOKIHI-LO IMP/25 W P CH

WARRANTY: ONE YEAR OVER THE COUNTER
EXCHANGE WITH PROPER PROOF OF PURCHASE.

SUG'D LIST 349.95

INSTALLED PRICE: 289.95

EASTERN DISTRIBUTING

 

 

463-9703

 

ISIS SS ICISIGSICIS ISIE 3393039

22 Wost Washington Street

Our Special Valentine
to W&L

10% off all Art, School,
and Office Supplies
New Shipment Including
Left-Handed Notebooks

at

The Book Shop

Coupon must be presented with purchase
on good thru 2/1 6/85 v
Fe f

7. a OD A) aH

The Generals applied persistent
forechecking early in the game as
they stifled Liberty Baptist’s offense.
W&L’s aggressive skating in the first
period paid off for the Generals as
they scored five times and limited
Liberty Baptist to one goal.

Ned Richardson and Jim Kelly
scored two goals each for the Gener-
als while Kevin Donovan, George
Corrigan, Burt Palmer, Jim Noble,
Ziggy Podleski and Vinny LaMotta
each contributed one.

Tom Haven and Bill Zola split the
goaltending duties for the Generals.
Zola had seven saves and Haven had
eight for the evening. W&L had 40
shots on goal compared to Liberty
Baptist’s 17.

The W&L hockey club expressed its
gratitude to its fans who showed up to
lend their moral support. The club’s
next game is Sunday at 8 p.m.
against the Roanoke Men’s League
All-Star Team at Lancerlot Arena.

39V3SI3S$ISIVGIGICGSIIIGICGICGIGGISS 7

A” VP

S9IGSCIGIGICS3SIIIPIISISIS

The Generals forfeited at 190 lbs.
and in the unlimited weight class.

Castle also recorded a pin against
LaSalle at 118 118 lbs., this one com-
ing at 2:20. Brian Lifsted pulled out a
6-5 decision at 126 Ibs., while Jeff
Mazza gave the grapplers six more
points and a 15-0 lead with a seoond
period pin at 134 Ibs.

Anker took a technical fall at 142
Ibs. and Kevin McNamara won at 150
Ibs. by forfeit, but a loss at 158 lbs.
closed the Generals’ lead to 27-6.

FRIDAY
SWIMMING — Mary Washington
(in Twombly Pool, 7 p.m., under a
coed format with Mary Baldwin
College).

SATURDAY
BASKETBALL — at Roanoke,
7:30 p.m. (Game will be broadcast
live by WLUR, 91.5 FM).

nieces aia aieeeaalaaaiaecataeiacaaleealiereeiameiaea
Sports slate

Phillips again put the grapplers
back on the winning track with his
second technical fall of the day, anda
6-1 victory by O’Neill at 177 lbs.
finished the Generals’ scoring.

The matmen will compete in their
final dual meet of the year Saturday
at Longwood College. Next weekend,
they will travel to Trenton State to
compete in an enlarged Division III
Eastern Regional Tournament. The
top three wrestlers in each weight
class will advance to the NCAA Divi-
sion III national tournament.

SWIMMING — at William and
Mary, 2p.m.

WRESTLING — at Longwood,
1:30 p.m.

TUESDAY
BASKETBALL — Eastern Men-
nonite (in Warner Center, 7:30
p.m.).

 

February 7, 1985

Page 6

 

By Cotton Puryear

 

Do not relocate
the Mudville ‘9’

 

c

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

steup that allows their (I don’t like

roots and all, and move to another city (see Colts, Raiders and Clip-

pers).

Basically, it’s a case of where we're going to let the power reside.

The commissioners would just as
miting the free enterprising that

foisted upon them. The commissioners’ view is one that would coincide

with disgruntled fans (of the ilk

What commissioners are saying is that the freedom given owners is
excessive and leads to fan abuse and abandonment, and, by gosh,

that’s not fair or nice.

The owners are, let’s face it, in this racket to make a buck any way
they can. So they’re going to move to wherever the action is. Indeed,

when the going gets tough, the res

fix (see Leonard Tose and the Eagles among others).

Big-money sports — and even little-money sports-has reached a
point of such push-pull, click-click commercialization and televi-
sionization (let’s pretend it’s a word, it certainly has meaning) that
any more freedom is going to be bad for the game. Professional sports
need a rock of stability somewhere. Fans need to have faith in their
hometown teams, not be faced with the around-the-corner feeling that
the Mudville 9 are going to relocate for better weather and cheaper

stadium rental.

Perhaps if the.Al Davises would be a bit more stingy with the god-
awful salaries they pay their prima donnas, these cases of fan aban-
donment for better revenues would not be a problem. In all, though,

this type of restriction is a good

plemented soon before we no longer have Cleveland-Pittsburgh type
rivalries, the kind of things that help keep professional sports

moderately enjoyable...

....On to the Colonnade where Gary Franke’s grapplers are roaring
through everybody they face. That’s five in a row for the Generals
and, with hope, there will be more success along the way as Eastern

Regionals loom large in the near

slump. With Roanoke and Maryville up ahead and the Generals cling-
ing to fourth in the ODAC, the tournament looks grim at this point....
....Let’s put things in perspective once and for all when it comes to
college basketball (perhaps the greatest game going for television
sports today): You can have the Big 10, the SEC and the ACC —
place where they’re playing the best hoops right now is the Big East.

Look only to Monday night’s St.

Pirates (now 0-10 in the conference) were up by 14 points in the second

half on the nation’s No. 1 team....
....Finally, the Riggins”’ ‘‘Loose

ny, it’s sad. What’s worse is that Riggins is the kind that won’t realize
his error (i.e., we’re still waiting for some sort of public apology).

Don’t hold your breath....

...EDITOR’S NOTE: It’s that time of year again for the annual in-

termedia basketball war. The P

(that’s as in ‘“‘What? Journalism? Us?’’) will hook up tonight in the
Warner Center to determine bragging rights over Reid Hall, currently
held by WLUR. If it were a case of court talent, the Phi would suffer
great pain, but fortunately it will be a case of smarts, and, well, when

 

TIME. _ together Tuesday in the nation's

OUT.... up with a new topic every so often)
the problem of franchise relocation.
Seems Pete Rozelle and his com-
rades in the other professional
leagues (reps from the NHL, NBA,
USFL and MISL were also in D.C. to
testify before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and
Transportation on a pair of bills that give sports leagues the right to
control the location of their franchises) are a bit miffed with a legal

.... They got a good bit of the gang

apital to discuss (see, I can come

the sound of that ) teams to pull up,

soon have it with themselves by li-
the Al Davises of the world have

found in Baltimore and Oakland).

ponse has been to look for the quick

one and one that needs to be im-

future...Hoopsters are in a serious

the

John’s-Seton Hall clash where the ¢

n up, Sandy, baby” affair is not fun-

hi and the radio goons at WLUR

 

 

 

Swimmers

By STEVE GREENEBAUM
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee swim-
ming team is back on the winning
track after beating Gettysburg Col-
lege 48-41 Monday at Twombly Pool
to raise its record to 6-1 with two dual
meets left in the season.

Before the Gettysburg meet the
Generals refused to predict an easy
meet. No one could mention Gettys-
burg without referring to the Frost-
burg-Georgetown meet (Jan. 19) in
which the Generals thought would be
an easy victory, but became.a very
tough meet. The team’s attitude was
that they couldn’t afford any poor
performances in order to win.

So the Generals swam well and
won. Maybe the score 48-41 doesn’t
look very impressive, but at one point
the Generals were leading 35-8 and
the meet was over.

“Gettysburg was a surprisingly
easy meet,’’ said Coach Page Remil-
lard. ‘‘They thought we were going to
kill them and they beat themselves
before the meet even started. They
could have beaten us if they had
come after us.”

Simon Perez swam in the breast
stroke for the first time this season
and won. Finally, Eric Sullivan, who
has been having a great season, won

RESEARCH

Send $2 for catalog
of over 16,000 topics to
™ assist your research ef-
Be forts. For info., cali toll-
free 1-800-621-5745 (in Ii
linois call 312-922 )
Authors’ Research. Am 600-N

407 § Dearborn, Chicago. ii 60605 | |

 
    
  
  
 
     

 

 

riddle Bullets, raise record to 6-1

Pearson and Taber Smith at Wash-'~ >’

both the 1000-yard freestyle (10:11)
and the 200-yard butterfly (2:05).
Both times were his best for dual
meets.

“Eric swam an intelligent race in-
stead of an emotional one,’’ com-
mented Remillard. ‘‘He’s an exciting
swimmer and this was his first smart
race.”

“I’m feeling good,” Sullivan said,
“Hopefully this weekend I’ll be able
to swim (the 1,000 free) in under
10:00.”

“I’m happy right now, but I like
things when they’re done and then I
can look at that board I know what
I've done. I’ve been swimming 10
years, and I know that with six weeks
left in the season, anything could
happen,” Sullivan said.

This weekend the Generals have a
tiring schedule. Friday night they
will swim against Mary Washington
and on Saturday they will travel to
Division I William and Mary.

“The team is swimming well and
staying quick so.I really don’t see
Mary Washington beating us,’’ said
Remillard. “I think the swimmers
who have not been standing out in
past meets will do very well.”

The Mary Washington meet will be
run on a coed format in conjunction
with the Mary Washington female
team swimming against Mary Bald-
win College.

On Saturday, Division I William
and Mary is expected to give the Gen-
erals tight competition and is being
looked at very closely by Remillard
and the swimmers.

“We're concerned about William and
Mary,” Remillard said. ‘Their

 

 

 

s we Sa Ree ST

 

idm (te F Fede

Remember Your Valentine

We Wire Flowers Everywhere

165 south Main Street

program could be in its last year and
we don’t plan to be their final victory.
If we beat them we will be 8-1 which
would be the best record at Washing-
ton and Lee in eight or nine years.
But we're not going to go to William
and Mary to be beaten up, we’re go-
ing in to win.”

“Coach is putting us all in our best
events” said senior Bobby Pearson.
“First couple of swims will decide
how the meet will go; I’d say we’re
favored.”

The William and Mary meet will be
the last dual-meet for seniors Bobby

ington and Lee.

“T look forward to Pearson and.
Smith doing well. They are both
great for the team, they keep the,
team going when things are going
bad,” said Sullivan. ‘I look up to’
them since they have stability and.
consistency. They work hard and
have good attitudes. I think they are’
going to swim great.”’

Coach Remillard closed by saying,
“I think Eric’s comment echoes the’
sentiments of the whole team, but I.
don’t think they’re going to swim
well, I know they will.”

 

 

 

463-9152
ae

 

 

Turning another Page in the record book. .

by John V.
Lowe

 

 

a
yl > <<

GEORGE'S HAIRSTYLISTS

  

The Finest Men’s

136 Varner Lane

 

Cl tl pt pepe ge pat 5,

     

For
And Women’s Styles

 
 
  
 

463-3975)
“y

 

ee as lies ons

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

a eS

eG A Sl

      
   

oe
ve i i
;

d

W&L’s longest party

The highlight of last weekend’s Superdance undoubtedly was when it reached
its goal of $30,000 (above). But other highlights included (clockwise) journalism
Professor Hampden Smith, clad in pajamas, watching the bidding for the right to
throw a pie in his face; a few moments later, he got his just dessert; dancers enjoy

a break from the 30-hour marathon; and these two dancers seem oblivious to the
scattered cups and muddy floor.

Photos

by
David Sprunt

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1985, Page 7

 

 

 

 

 

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

  

Monday-Saturday 9-12

 

 

Valentines and Gifts forall ages &

Cheap Smokes ................

The Beta
Burger is Back

...and so are Muffin and
the Plain Jane

But there are 4 new Gourmet Hamburgers at The
Palms.

 

And Three new Entrees (including Filet Mignon for
only $11.95)

And, under the Palms’ Originals catagory we ve
added Croissants! And Pitas!

 

And those are just the highlights of our new 1985
Menu. You'll have to stop by and check out the
rest for yourself.

HE
=e

Valentine's Week
begins February 8. Call
or visit us today

| the

_ QJefferson

| florist to The Homestead

  

  

“ALMS,

; ; “ 103 N. Jefferson
101. W. Nelson St

Lexington, Va | Lexington, Va. 24450

 

463-9841

HOURS: 9:00a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday

 

 

Order Announcements
from

Feb. 25th - March 8th

Order Cap ‘n Gown

from
March 4th - March 11th
Place orders in Bookstore

 

 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS

   
  

x Seat
®

Harry Callahan
He doesnt
break
murder Cases ee

He smashes /
them eG eh

Nis wan :
Clint Eastwood
DirtyHarry . (ec

7300 & 9:00 p.m.
Room 109

   
 
   
    
   

Detective

      
     

 

Friday, Saturday and Sunday “
The Student Center (Above Cockpit)
| ADMISSION ONLY $1.50

 

 
 

 

“Back Page

The Ring-tum Phi

 

By BOB STRICKLAND
Staff Reporter

 

“I feel like I’m at a freak show at
the circus.”

‘“What’s wrong with diversity in
art?’’

“Sure, but where are the ink
blots?”

“It’s fun, it’s unique, one shouldn’t
be intimidated, but should partici-
pate.”

These and other comments can be
found in the guest book at du Pont
Gallery where “Revolutions Per
Minute”’ is on display until Feb. 23.
RPM, like Larry Stene’s sculpture in
the library, has become subject to
comment by both the ignorant and
those educated in art.

Whether one feels an artistic urge
to see the show or not, a stop by the
gallery will reveal 22 original works
by such renowned artists as William
Burroughs, Buckminster Fuller and
Chris Burden. The show has traveled
from London to West Germany and
throughout the United States.

The show is composed of 22 record-
ings one can listen to with head-
phones. Each piece, about the length
of a 45 RPM record, is accompanied
-with a proposed album cover design-
ed by each artist. The album was the
idea of Jeff Gordon, a music
writer/producer who has written
songs for artists as diverse as The
Spinners and Phillip Glass.

Most of the artists contributing to
the show are performance artists.
Performance art made its debut in
the 1960s when artists sought to rede-
fine art, especially in the areas of
dance and drama.

Artists such as Robert Rauschen-
berg left the canvas temporarily to
explore the aesthetics of happenings
and performance art. Happenings
and performance art often borrowed
from drama, literature and dance;
the aim is to create an art that cannot
be exploited by the mass media and
the commercial art market.

Performance art is meant to be
viewed by those truly interested in

 

art, not those who merely collect art
as an investment or a tax break. Po-
litical and social messages were
woven into the loosely designed
scripts of happenings in the 1960s.
Human action was turned into meta-
phor and the social issues and politics
of this turbulent decade were pre-
sented in a form that departed from
traditional artistic conventions.

Indeed, RPM challenges the con-
ventional definition of art. Here,
there are no paintings and no sculp-
tures. The traditional visual image is
translated into the audio language of
art. The viewer must adapt in order
to experience art through the ear,
rather than the eye. The works can
be divided into five different categor-
ies: sound work compositions, allego-
rical narratives, situations, songs
and heuristic texts.

The sound work compositions em-
phasize the properties of abstract
sound. These works resemble avant-
garde music of the post-World War II
period. David Smyth’s ‘‘Typewriter
in D’’ relies on the sound of three
typewriters arranged to construct a
soundscape of percussion. In Terry
Fox’s “Internal Sound,” music is
created by stretching two 300-foot
piano wires the length of a church;
the resulting effect is an electronic,
synthesized sound from a rather un-
orthodox acoustical instrument.

The works categorized as allegori-
cal narratives are closer to poetry
rather than music or abstract sound.
Chris Burden’s ‘‘Atomic Alphabet”’ is
a blunt, straightforward message
characteristic of his performance
art. In this piece, he rattles off the
alphabet in less than a minute
screaming, ‘‘A is for atomic, B is for
bomb....”

The situations emphasize a certain
event, whether real or fabricated.
“Site” is a recorded documentary of
comments of passers-by on an unus-
ual building (in this case, a Best Pro-
ducts Co. Inc. store) designed for the
sake of art.

The comments in the du Pont Gal-
lery guest book have yet to rival

RPM: A fusion of art,music

 

 

some of these armchair art historian
commentaries. Another outstanding
situation work is ‘‘Really, Is That A
Fact?” by Ida Applebroog. This re-
cording depicts the typical cliched
fragments of conversation at a cock-
tail party including, ‘‘really, is that a
fact?” The work then fades into a
surrealistic dream drama that would
be especially appreciated by a dream
analyst.

Most of the songs are professionaly
done. Of special notice is the work by
Les Levine. Hannah Wilke’s ‘‘Stand
Up” is a rather sophomoric attempt
to urge the listener to stand up for
what he believes (or in my case, to
leave this overly sentimental droodle
of a song.)

The last category involves the use
of heuristic texts. These texts are
cuts of lectures and monologues

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi
A student listens to one of the selections at the du Pont exhibit.

given by the artists. The rather vio-

lent performance artist Joseph
Beuys speaks at a lecture at Cooper
Union on topics ranging from Jack-
son Pollock to Elvis Presley. World-
renowned architect Buckminster
Fuller speaks of things I have neither
the patience or desire to understand.
These texts mainly treat aesthetic
theories and treatises on art.

Whether one is interested in exper-
iencing RPM as a serious and unique
collection of art or as a freak show, a
visit to du Pont is in order. The hours
of the Gallery are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Monday through Friday, 11 a.m. to 3
p.m. Saturday and 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Sunday. And, who knows, those who
come to listen expecting a laugh may
leave convinced of RPM’s true
worth.

 

 

Devils, whores offer melodrama and comedy

 

By TED BYRD
Staff Reporter

 

Two one-act plays will be perform-
ed in the Boiler Room Theater next
Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8
p.m.

The theater is in the basement of
Old Main Street Mall and is entered
from Henry Street.

The first play, ‘“The Devil and Dan-
iel Webster,’ is being directed by
Greg Stites, and the second, ‘The
Day the Whores Came Out to Play
Tennis,’ by Ned Richardson. Both
Stites and Richardson are junior dra-
ma majors doing the plays for the de-
partment’s directing class.

 

“The Devil and Daniel Webster,”
written by Stephen Vincent Benet in
1939, is about a New England farmer,
Jabez Stone, who sells his soul to the
devil. The play opens 10 years later,
in 1841, as the devil comes to collect
his debt at Stone’s wedding. Daniel
Webster, also attending the wedding,
turns the matrimonial proceedings
into a courtroom battle to help Stone
escape his obligation to the devil.

Stites calls the play a patriotic me-
lodrama, complete with villain, hero
and citizens in need of help. ‘I
thought it would be fun to do a melo-
drama and interesting to do a patri-
otic melodrama,” Stites said. ‘‘Peo-
ple will enjoy watching it — it’s a
melodrama in an extreme sense.”

The cast has 10 characters, includ-

 

February
share a very

special pizza

with
a special friend

23 South Jefferson St.

Lexington,

Va. 24450

(703) 463-7375

For your very

 

special friend,

Our drivers carry less than $10
Limited detvery ares
© Copyngm 1960

Domino's Pizza will

deliver a large, heart-shaped pizza, along with a free
carnation (courtesy of The Flower Center) on Valentine's
Day. We'll even deliver your personal card, if you wish,

all for just $8.65 including tax.

To ensure delivery,

please complete the reservation form below and return it

to our store at 23 §&.
l4th.

Deliver to:

Jefferson St.

before February

 

Address:

 

 

Time of Delivery:

I wish to enclose my own personal card:

My Name:

AM/PM

YES( ) NOC )

 

Address:

 

Phone(s):

 

A eae

ing one woman. Two men will play fe-
male roles that, although a result of
not being able to find women for the
roles, Stites believes will add to the
humor in the play.

‘‘The Day the Whores Came Out to
Play Tennis,” written by Arthur Ko-
pit, takes place at an exclusive coun-
try club that is ‘“‘invaded’’ by 18
whores one morning. They arrive in
two Rolls-Royces, repainted in a
style appropriate to their profession,
and proceed to start tennis games on
the club’s courts.

The cast includes the president of
the club and his son, one of the foun-
ders of the club, and his son, a mem-
ber and an English servant. Through-
out the play they try unsuccessfully
— to have the whores removed before
a neighboring club arrives for
“Visitor’s Day.”

Richardson believes that the play
addresses the incompetence of the
characters, their inability to work
together and, on a higher level, at-
tacks exclusive institutions in gener-
al. Decay is the overall concept, and
in the end the club is destroyed by the
whores.

Richardson first saw the play per-
formed in 1981, and then played one

SU CeeBsnD Ice

   

of the sons in a production his senior
year of high school. He decided last
year to use the play as his directing
project. ‘‘It’s a very funny play and
it’s an all-male cast, and since this is
still an all-male school we didn’t have
to go out and get people,’’ he said.
“They say it’s tough to do a play
you’ve been in but I don’t think it’s
been a problem for me because I saw
a good production before being in it.”

Admission to the plays is free, but
tickets should be reserved in advance
at the University Theatre box office.
“Basically we want to generate en-
thusiasm for the plays, and that’s

why there is no admission fee,’’ Stites

said. ‘‘This is experimental theater,
and we’d like to see a large crowd.”’

“It’s going to be a very interesting
night,” Richardson said, ‘‘because
the plays are very different, the first
one is a melodrama and mine’s a
comedy, and some of the actors are
in both plays.”

In addition to directing, Stites and
Richardson each have a role in the
other’s play, Richardson as the devil
in ‘‘The Devil and Daniel Webster,”’
and Stites as one of the sons in ‘‘The
Day the Whores Came Out to Play
Tennis.”’

Yesteryears Treasures!
The Old Coin Shop

For gold and sterling jewelry and other
collectibles at affordable prices.

463-6075

211 S. Main St.

 

REMEMOER your VALENTINE

Rockbridge County’s

Component Stereo Center
for your home and car
Maxell UDXLII’s 2.99 ea.

 

Featuring: jvc Boston Acoustic,
Design Acoustic, Panasonic,
Sony, Maxell, Audio Technica

2175 Magnolia Ave., Buena Vista

A Division of

Value Mart

 

February 7, 1985

‘Protocol’:

A tribute

to American ideals

MOVIEREVIEW

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

 

Goldie Hawn’s latest movie,
‘‘Protocol,”’ is a tribute to the Amer-
ican ideals of life, liberty and the pur-
suit of happiness and a satire of gov-
ernment misrepresentation of these
ideals. Though not consistently fun-
ny, itis an entertaining picture.

Goldie plays Sunny Davis, a cock-
tail waitress who unwittingly pre-
vents the assassination of a Middle
Eastern leader and becomes a na-
tional heroine. She is made a pawn in
a political chess game as the U.S.
government tries to exchange her for
a military base in that leader’s
strategically located country.

Sunny Davis is a part written for
Goldie Hawn. She is the perennial dit-
sy blonde, yet she seems, through

luck or hard work, to be ‘‘in the
right” constantly. Hawn seems very
familiar in this role, In fact, she
seems almost too familiar at times.

Buck Henry’s screenplay is a sa-
tire of the American system as it
works. There are bureaucrats who
take charge of situations, making
deals on their own initiatives without
consulting their ‘‘superiors.’’ There
are the media, who jump on the band-

wagon to make Sunny a hero, and -

then turn around to cover “Sunny-

gate.” Finally we see a young womar-

proud of her country, and ultimately
used by it.

Much is said, and though most of it
is funny at first, the story drags after
a while, only to pick up slightly
toward the end.

“Protocol’’ turns out to be a state-
ment about the way America views
itself. It is lighthearted satire and a
must for Goldie Hawn fans, but even
fans might lose interest when the sa-
tire seems forced and loses its bite. .

Boys’ choir to sing
at Southern Sem

 

From Staff Reports

 

The American Boychoir, regarded
as America’s foremost concert boys’
choir, will perform Sunday at 3 p.m.

at Southern Seminary Junior College .

as part of the Rookbridge Concert-
Theatre Series.

The concert, the first RC-TS per-
formance to be held in Buena Vista,
is free to Washington and Lee, South-
ern Seminary and Virginia Military
Institute students.

The American Boychoir has enter-
tained audiences in more than 20
countries and in 48 states. One of its
more recent performances was a
Dec. 16 NBC-TV Christmas special
starring “Mr. T.” and Emmanuel
Lewis. The group appeared in bene-
fits with Bob Hope in 1983 and Bill
Cosby in 1984.

The members of the choir attend
the American Boychoir School in

Committee. Northen Auditorium.

School 327.

Society. Lewis Hall, Classroom A.

Center.

Center.

7 p.m. — FILM:
Auditorium.

Admission is $2.

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, February 7
4:30 p.m. — READING: Poet Amy Clampitt. Sponsored by Glasgow .

7 p.m. —- RUSSIAN FILM: “The Brothers Karamazov. Commerce

Friday, February 8
7 & 9 p.m. — FILM: “Dirty Harry.” Sponsored by Student Activities
Board. Admission is $1.50. Room 109 of the University Center. -
8 p.m. — FILM: “‘Alsino and the Condor.” Sponsored by W&L Film

8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘Of Mice and Men.”’ (Through Feb. 12): nn
Theatre. For reservations call 463-8637.

Saturday, February 9
7 & 9 p.m. — FILM: “Dirty Harry.” Room 109 of the University

8 p.m. — FILM: Alsino and the Condor.” Lewis Hall, Classroom A.
8 p.m. — PLAY: “Of Mice and Men.”’ University Theatre.

Sunday, February 10
7 & 9 p.m. — FILM: “Dirty Harry.” Room 109 of the University

8 p.m. — PLAY: “Of Mice and Men.” University Theatre.

Monday, February 11
“Othello.” BBC Shakespeare series. Northen

8 p.m. — PLAY: “Of Mice and Men.”’ University Theatre.

Tuesday, February 12
8 p.m. — PLAY: “Of Mice and Men.” University Theatre.

Wednesday, February 13
8:30 p.m. — WEDNESDAY IN THE COCKPIT: Featuring The Dads.

OFFCAMPUS

Princeton, N.J., the only non-sectar-
ian bording school in the Western
Hemisphere. Of the 43 boys at the
school, 26 — fourth-through eighth-
graders — will be in Rockbridge,
where they will stay with local fami-
lies for the weekend.

The Boychoir’s Southern Seninity
performance will include works by
Schubert, Mendelssohn, Bach and
Handel as well as Aaron Copland and
Ralph Vaughan Williams. American
songs the group will perform include _

“When Johnnie Comes Marching h

Home,” ‘‘Shenandoah,” ‘“‘Stars and

Stripes Forever’’ and “Battle Hymn:

of the Republic.”

Tickets for students other than’
those attending the three area col-
leges are $7.50. Adult tickets are |
$12.50 and children’s tickets are $3.

The Concert-Theatre Series’ final -

presentation of the season will be
Dizzy Gillespie and his jazz trio
March 20 at 8:15 p.m. in VMI’s Jack-
son Memorial Hall.

 

Friday, February 8

Mary Baldwin College — 7 p.m. — FILM: ‘‘The Big Chill.” Sponsored

Center. °

Saturday, February 9
Mary Baldwin College — 9 p.m.— VALENTINE’S DANCE: Featuring’
= Toppz. Admission is $3.50. College 1.D. required. Student Activities”
enter.

Smith Banquet Hall.
Monday, February 11

Monday through Friday. Hollins Theatre.
Tuesday, February 12

Science Building.

 

by Social Committee. ‘‘Motown Party” following. Student Activities -

;

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College — 9 p.m. — SNOW-BUSTER PAR- ’
TY: Featuring the Monarchs. Admission is $3. College I.D, required,

Hollins College — 8:15 p.m. — BREAD AND PUPPET THEATRE
PRODUCTION: ‘‘The Door.” General admission is $4, students and.
senior citizens are $2. For more information call 362-6517, 4-6 p.m., ;

Hollins College — 8 p.m. — FRENCH FILM FESTIVAL: “L’Historie
D’Adele H.”’ Admission is free. Babcock Auditorium is in the Dana

 

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Fri. 10-5; Sat. 10-4
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

 

 

;
