 

 

 

 

 

 

VOLUME 84, NUMBER 9

Smashing?
Drinking
to learn

 

 
   
  

  

Page 7

  

Che KRing-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

On The Record

 

Only disaster could prevent
landslide Tuesday, prof says

Page 3

  

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

     
   

Sports

 

Football
evens record |

 

 

 

General
Notes

 

Photo reminders

Underclassmen are reminded
that Friday is the last day pic-
tures will be taken for the Calyx
Pictures will be taken tomorrow
from 9 a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. to
4:30 p.m. If you didn’t pay for
your picture in the matriculation
line, you may pay for it at the time
of your sitting. Please wear a coat
and tie.

Seniors are reminded to sign up
for their senior Calyx pictures if
they have not already done so.
The photo sessions will resume
Monday and continue through
Nov. 16

Meeting for MD

Washington and Lee’s Muscular
Dystrophy Superdance will hold a
meeting for all students interested
in helping to plan ‘‘W&L’s longest
party.” All subcommittee mem-
bers also should attend the meet-
ing, which will be Sunday at7 p.m
in Room 114 of the Student Center

Sigma Nu relay

| The members of W&L’s Sigma

Nu fraternity will run a 47-mile
| sponsored relay Saturday to
| Lynchburg to show its support for

the W&L cross country team,
| which will be competing in the
| ODAC meet that day in Lyn-

chburg. All proceeds from the run
| will be contributed to the
| Lexington-Rockbridge County
| United Way

[Reagan debate

| A student debate, ‘‘Resolved:

| America Needs Ronald Reagan,”

; will be held Monday at 7:30 p.m.

| in Northen Auditorium. It will be

_sponsored by the W&L debate
team.

|

‘Beaucoup de films

“Lord of the Flies’ will be
shown as part of the Politics Film
Festival tonight at 7 in Commerce
School Room 327

“The Candidate,’’ starring
Robert Redford, will be shown by
the SAB at 8 p.m. Friday, Satur-
day and Sunday in du Pont Audi-
torium. Admision to the film,
which is about the media’s
packaging of a senatorial candi-
date, is $1.50.

“Charles I’ and ‘The Stuarts
Restored” will be shown Sunday
at 2 p.m. indu Pont Auditorium as
part of the ‘Royal Heritage”’ film
series

“Henry IV, Part I,’ will be
shown as part of the BBC/Time-
Life Series Tuesday at 7 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium

“King Lear’’ will be shown as
part of the BBC/Time-Life Series
Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Northen

Auditorium.

The Russian Film Festival will
continue with a showing of ‘‘Sha-
dows of Forgotten Ancestors”
next Thursday, Nov. 8, at 7:30
p.m. in Room 327 of the Com-
merce School. The 99-minute film
is directed by Sergei Parajanov.

Physics seminar

A physics/engineering seminar,
“The Use of Artificial Intelligence
to Solve Problems,” will be pre-
sented by Carl Keller in Parmly
201 Wednesday at 4:30 p.m

 

Lecture on law

Milner S. Ball, professor of con-
stitutional law at the University of
Georgia, will lecture on ‘‘A Theo-
logical Approach to  Juris-
prudence’ Wednesday at 8 p.m. in
the Moot Courtroom of Lewis
Hall

Notes’ requests

“General Notes
may be obtained from the career
information stand by Carole
Chappell’s office. They must be
turned in to The Ring-tum Phi

6

request forms

box, upstairs in the Student
Center, by 1 p.m. Tuesday of the
week they are to be run

 

Tailgate and more§
slated for parents »”

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

As students desperately clean their
rooms and the grass around the cam-
pus is gently manicured, all the
evidence points to one event:
Parents’ Weekend.

The weekend, which kicks off
tomorrow at 10 a.m. and runs
through Sunday afternoon, will be
highlighted by two events in Lee
Chapel: a Friday evening concert
featuring the Glee Club and the Brass
and Percussion Ensemble at 8 p.m.
and the annual Report to Parents by
University President John D. Wilson
at11:30a.m. Saturday.

Anew event this Parents’ Weekend
is a tailgate party sponsored by the
Interfraternity Council and the
Alumni Association. It will be held
from 11:30a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Saturday
on the Upper Athletic Field. A blue-
grass band will play, and fraternities
are being encouraged to take their

lunches and receptions for parents up
there.

“It’s a school-wide event that will
help to bring everyone together right
before the football and soccer
games,’’ said Jim Kerr, one of the
students assisting the Alumni Assoc-
iation in planning the event. ‘‘The en-
thusiasm from that should carry over
to the bailgames.”’

The football game is at 1:30 p.m.
and the soccer game is at 2 p.m.

Parents will be able to participate
in open houses in University depart-
ments Friday and Saturday and in
seminars Saturday morning with stu-
dent leaders and members of the
faculty and administration.

In addition, the University Theatre
will present Sean O’Casey’s ‘‘Juno
and the Paycock”’ Saturday evening.

“The major reason for Parents’
Weekend is to make them feel a part
of the University and to see their sons
in action,’ said Carter McNeese,

_ See Weekend, Page 10

 

8 p.m.

9p.m.

11:30 a.m.

1:2.
8 p.m.

 

Weekend Calendar

Friday, November 2

10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Registration in Fairfax Lounge
Glee Club/Brass and Percussion
Ensemble Concert in Lee Chapel
President’s Reception in

__ Dining Hall :

9:30 - 11 a.m. Parents’ Seminars

Report to Parents in Lee Chapel

12:15-1:15p.m. Luncheon in Dining Hall

Football: W&L vs. Samford

“Juno and the Paycock,”

University Theatre

U.S. Sen. John Warner greets W&L President John
Wilson during Warner’s campaign appearance here
last Thursday. Warner, a W&L alumnus running for re-

page 5.)

 
 
  

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ringtum Phi

election Tuesday, spoke for about 25 minutes in front of
Lee Chapel. (Story and additional election coverage on

 

Board must OK rule changes

 

 

 

Easy win? Not so fast, says Fallon

Samford University’s football
team must know how Walter Mon-
dale feels when he reads the polls
each morning.

The Bulldogs, who play Washing-
ton and Lee here Saturday, are 0-6 on
the season, and have been pummeled
by scores such as 82-9, 45-0 and 41-4.

This is the first season the
Birmingham school has fielded a
team since 1973, when its program
was suspended for financial reasons.
The team was the national champion
in its division in 1971.

Samford Athletic Director Laverne
Farmer says it’s ‘‘a miracle’ that
the team is playing at all this season.
“We didn’t even have a football until

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

this summer,” he said.

A guaranteed General romp,
right?
‘Don’t be deceived by those

scores,’’ W&L head coach Gary Fal-
lon said. ‘‘You have to fear that
hungry team — that team that’s
going to come up here all charged up
and looking for its first victory.”’

“We look at them as being a big,
strong team,’’ he continued. ‘‘They
have as good a front as we’ve seen,
and they play pretty good physical
football.”

Samford head coach Kim Alsop
said his squad is making the 14-hour
drive to Lexington in hopes that W&L
will reciprocate insome future year.

no longer here.”’

“It will be interesting to see what happens

By MIKE ALLEN
Chief Editor

 

The Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees said this weekend that it

must approve any changes in the new

fraternity party regulations that took
effect this fall

Student Body President Cole Daw
son said the trustees would review
any proposed rule alterations be-
cause the board approved plans for
the student activities pavilion with
the understanding that the new rules
would be in place

Dawson participated in a combined

meeting of the Planning and
Development and Campus Life
committees Friday and made a

report to the entire board Saturday

Possible changes in the social
rules, which include provisions re
stricting Wednesday night parties
and limiting each fraternity to four
party weekends per term, have been
debated at Student Affairs Commit
tee meetings for the last several
weeks,

“The trustees care only that they
made these rules, and for the rules to
be changed, it needs to come through
them,’’ Dawson said

He said he explained to board

members student dissatisfaction
with the new rules and ‘‘they under-
stood the student view.”’

“‘] told them the students were very

nD
Profs offer mixed views on colleagues’ politics

hot out there, and said there are stu-
dents who are willing to disobey the
rules,” Dawson said. ‘I told them
that it’s kind of frustrating when you
feel that nobody's listening to you.”
hey are aware of the problem

now,’ he continued. ““‘They didn't
realize it was such a big deal.’’ He
said some trustees felt that although
the situation was out of hand last
year, ‘‘now we've gone too far and
maybe need to come back a little
bit.”

“Hopefully SAC can come up with
a happy medium to present,’’ Daw-
son said

He said he feels the ideal plan is
one under which fraternities would
be allowed to party at their house two
Wednesday nights per month, and
they would be permitted to party
with one — and only one other
house

Dawson said the four-party-per
term rule ‘‘is no big deal’ to him. “I
don't see any problem with that,” he
said

University President John D. Wil-
son said yesterday that the board dis-
cussed student reaction to the new
rules

“| think they heard that students
were unhappy about the present par-
ty legislation,’ he said. ‘‘The board is
concerned that the students are con-
cerned.”

‘‘We need to look at this in the con-

 

 

Washington and Lee’s faculty is unable to
agree whether professors here tend more
toward liberalism or toward conservatism,
according to aninformal survey.

History Professor Jefferson Davis Futch
claims the faculty is ‘‘frantically”’ liberal.

“The faculty has a dream,”’ he said. ‘‘The
faculty is convinced that Mondale is really
McGovern and Ferraro is really Jane Fon-
da.”

Futch said the disparity between presum-
ed student opinion and faculty opinion ‘‘is a
disparity that is reflected all over this coun-
try.”

“Td say that a great many professors are
in love with the New Deal and statism, and
this is reflected in a lot of professorial
views,’’ he said. ‘‘I don’t think many students
think in those terms.”

“My feeling is that graduate schools have
been this way for the last 50 years, and this
has been reflected in faculty feeling around
the country,’ he continued. ‘‘It’s the same at
Harvard as it is at the University of New
Mexico.”

‘I've been puzzled by the attraction of the
teaching profession to liberals since I was an
undergraduate at Johns Hopkins,’ Futch
said. ‘I’ve been puzzled by it for 30 years.”’

Biology Professor Thomas Nye, however,
maintains that ‘‘a strong liberal here at W&L

would be pretty lonesome.”

“We are more conservative at W&L than
many schools, but in recent years, we've
come closer to parity than when I came here
in 1966,’’ he said. ‘‘Then, there were some
very conservative faculty members who are

 

in the next few years with the admission of
women,” he said. ‘‘I don’t think the libe-
ral/conservative mixture will change much.”

Politics Professor John Handelman echoed
some of Nye’s sentiments, but offered some
harsher criticism of students here.

“The faculty is moderately more conser-
vative here than on a national basis,’’ he
said. ‘Something to keep in mind: there are
a number of faculty members who are W&L
grads, and that queers the whole thing up.”

“You have to be somewhat careful here
who you talk to seriously about issues,”’ he
said. ‘Everyone knows everyone else’s bus-
iness, and it tends to breed conservatism.”

“| do think a good conservative is a good
person,’’ Handelman continued. ‘There is a
sound intellectual position that can be main-
tained if it's done ina tidy way.”

Handelman said he wonders, though, if
students are aware of views other than their
dogmatic conservative positions

“| feel like throwing erasers at them to get
them to see both ways,’ he said. ‘I like to
play the devil's advocate.”

Religion and ethics Professor Louis Hod
ges noted the ambiguities of the words ‘‘con
servative’’ and ‘‘liberal,’’ but concluded that
the faculty tends to be liberal

‘The problem is how you define ‘liberal
Hodges said. ‘‘One widely-used definition is
someone who favors more rather than te
public programs for social problems

“Comparing the faculty to the national
population, I guess you would say they al
more liberal — you would hope so, if ‘liberal
arts’ means liberating the mind,” he con

See Faculty, Page 10

  
 

  

one et ete yes ores ween siete

How would you classify
your political leanings?
(meamenenmneimcnmmmename:

Strong Democrat
ieeeitertmeEEneesetis eee
Democrat
eum

Weak Democrat

Haare OO,
Independent

pum 33%
Weak Repub

 

poms 55
Republican

 

 

 

text of our object of on one hand re
ducing the stress and strain of frat
ernity parties, and on the other hand
conducting our social life in such a
way that it doesn’t undermine our
academic values.”

Wilson said the trustees authorized
him to proceed with planning for a
new residence hall that would accom
modate up to 240 students

Three sites are under considera
tion for the building, which is slated
for completion in the fall of 1987

“Tassume we will havea floor plan
that will accommodate male and fe-
male students and also ensure securi
ty and privacy,’ Wilson said

He said the facility may be design
ed so that it could be expanded ‘‘by
the end of the century” if additiona!
space is needed

Wilson said a presentation was
made to the board about the effect of
the coeducation decision on fundrais
ing. ‘So far, all the signs are good,
he said

Wilson said board members report
ed that ‘‘exceptionally successful
meetings had been conducted with
alumni groups in Atlanta, Baltimore,
Houston, Richmond, San Antonio,
Washington and other cities

“All the signs are much more en
couraging at this stage than we per
haps thought they would be,” he said
“Butit’s still very, very early.”

See Board, Page 9

Athletic dept.
criticizes new
W&L calendar

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

 

If the athletic department has its
way, Washington and Lee’s
1985-86 calendar, which
strong faculty approval last month
will be reconsidered at Monday's fa:
ulty meeting

Dean of the College John W
confirmed that
portunity for the faculty to recon

proposed

received

Elrod

“there will be an op

 

sider’ the calendar Monday and As
sistant Dean of the College Pamela
H. Simpson indicated the athle
department may be cessful

“We are very much opposed to the
schedule as it now stands

Athletic Director William D
ry. McHenry explained the app

appli

  

 

calendar would pose
winter sports, par

ball and wrestling, beca

 
  

be only one week of «
of the normal two, hetween the

1S LNanksgiving Dreak
 

Page 2
November 1, 1984

OPINION

Have the media
missed the beat?

As another political campaign draws to a close, the role of
the media in covering that campaign and of candidates in
playing to the media once again has been in the spotlight. Lit-
tle doubt exists that the media do have a right to cover
political campaigns — how else would the majority of voters
get the objective information they need to make informed
decisions in the voting booths? But have we given the media
too much control over political campaigns? Do the media set
the political agenda by determining what issues the candi-
dates address and how they are perceived by the public?

 

The answer, at least partially, must be yes, although the
fault does not lie solely with the media.

An example occurred here on the Washington and Lee
campus just a week ago. U.S. Sen. John Warner, a Republi-
can from Virginia (and a W&L alumnus) running for re-
election against Democratic challenger Edythe Harrison,
spent about 45 minutes at W&L during a brief (and his only)
campaign swing through Lexington.

Accompanying Warner were reporters from three of the
larger state newspapers, United Press International and sev-
eral local television stations. For the most part, these
reporters have followed Warner around the state for several
weeks now. (They ride in one van; Warner and his aides ride
in another. )

Most of what Warner told the about 150 students on the
steps in front of Lee Chapel was old verbiage to these
reporters. They knew he told nearly every audience that this
was the campaign appearance to which he’d most been look-
ing forward. And so they didn’t pay much attention to what
he said. Instead, they eagerly awaited the conclusion of his
speech, when they hoped to be able to ask him about cam-
paign contributions he’d received from Political Action Com-
mittees representing defense contractors cited for overpric-
ing spare parts.

Sure enough, after Warner had finished speaking and had
several seconds to shake a few hands, he was surrounded by
the reporters for what was described later as an impromptu
press conference. Warner’s answers to questions about his
and Harrison’s campaign finances gave the reporters some-
thing they considered newsworthy and thus could write
about.

So when W&L students picked up their morning papers Fri-
day, they found stories about Warner datelined LEXING-
TON. Expecting to read about his remarks to the students at
W&L, they were surprised to find instead a story about PAC
contributions. Only one of the stories even mentioned what he
told the students (and then in two paragraphs three-fourths
of the way through the story).

While it undoubtedly is important for the media to deter-
mine (and for the public to know) who gives financial support
to candidates for public office, that seems less significant
than the public’s getting to know and understand the candi-
date and his positions.

The media’s domination of last Thursday’s campaign ap-
pearance was damaging in two respects. First, it did not en-
able W&L students, many of whom live in Virginia and will
have an opportunity to vote for Warner, to talk to him further
about his ideas and policies and his days as a W&L student.
The media is with Warner every day, whereas this was his
only appearance at W&L.

Secondly, many readers of the ensuing news accounts are
just beginning to decide for whom they’ll vote Tuesday. They
want to know John Warner’s position on the Equal Rights
Amendment and his stand on nuclear disarmament — they
don’t care about his PAC contributions; he’s got more than
enough money, anyway. But the media who’ve been follow-
ing him for a month or longer are more than aware of and, in-
deed, are bored with, his positions on those issues; they’re
looking for something new about which to write. This is not
entirely the media’s fault — if they printed the candidates’
position papers every day, no one would buy the newspaper.

Part of the problem could be alleviated by allowing report-
ers to have contact with Warner (and other political cand-
idates) at times other than during scheduled campaign ap-
pearances. For example, Warner’s handlers could schedule
one leg (presumably short) of each day’s trip during which
the candidate would ride in the press van and talk with the
reporters.

This would give the media greater access to the candidate
and would enable the candidate, during his public appear-
ances, to concentrate on the public and its concerns rather
than the media and what’s going to be on the 6 o’clock news.

—By Bruce Potter

Che KRing-tum Phi
Chief Editors Business Manager

Bruce Potter William Schoeffler
Mike Allen

PRWU TR ain 65 vi hock bbe cas sete c eub eee et ibe cence beer eneetesccees Paul Foutch
PE RIE ak cs ic ih es aed hee ee ag ees Reade Williams
a A Pe SiC
gS eee i Nelson Patterson
PY Me 5 Ri ls ha is Cotton Puryear
Cape Cit ROR GOE acco iis cdi hates cade cas cede nireens Peter Crane
oes Be rerrrs rere So errey rrr error re
CI os a as GIs A Chris Bowring, Jeff Hubbard

Chris Gareis
AGVOVUGINGE GOTRCTROR, «ci ce cece acicthccccccotenreesresareeearestes David Dunn

Eric Hancock, Jeff Kimbell,
Rob Tolleson, Brad Watkins

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ringtum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Nice parents, but is he in one of my classes???’

 

 

Readying for the ‘rents

OUR VIEW

By Mike McAlevey
and Scott Henderson

It’s that time again, parents will be
leaving the peaceful tranquility of
‘their homes to make their perfunc-
tory pilgrimage to our own version of
Gomorra. This event, of course,
necessitates the conscientious
preparation by all parties involved to
make the campus presentable. Build-
ings and grounds will certainly be
mowing and blowing the leaves,
creating an audible chaos that could
rival even the commotion caused by
a group of Baldwin girls that have
collectively lost their curling irons.
Fraternities will make their best ef-
forts to reduce the possibility of
parents contracting infectuous
diseases from the accumulated beer
pool swill, sticky contaminated toilet
seats and non-paying rodent
residents. And certainly the highlight
and cause of all these preliminary
measures, the future grounds
keepers and fraternity national
representitives, the sons, will be for-
mulating their last minute stratagem
to accomplish their goals.

Of course, the most prominent fac-
tion will be those conniving fund-
seekers. The first order of business to
be reckoned with by these impres-
sion-conscious mamma’s boys will be
the establishment of some semblance
of cleanliness and order of the self,
personal domain and possessions.
These activities will include doing
Everest-sized loads of filth-ridden
laundry permitting only two or three
at the same time in any given laun-
dromat and causing a_ general
quarter shortage sure to elicit video
game withdrawal from a majority of
the campus population. Wendell’s,
Marie’s and Shirley’s will be innun-
dated with mopheaded minds paying
top dollar to be transformed back in-
to that clean-cut image possessed the
last time mommy and daddy saw

Bella’s

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

 

 

As I sat listening to Bella Abzug
speak Monday night at Sweet Briar, I
couldn’t help but think that I was
listening to an American hero whose
time had passed. I know some think I
stand to the right of Attila the Hun.
But I still like Bella Abzug, although I
disagree with her political stands.

Towards the end of her speech, she
addressed the question of why many
youth today are increasingly regis-
tering as Republicans. A recent
Gallup poll identified President
Ronald Reagan’s strongest support
as coming from voters in the 18-29
age bracket. These voters prefer
Reagan over Mondale by almost a 2-
to-1 margin. Why has the Democratic
party lost what during the activist
1960s was its strongest voting bloc
—young voters?

Simply, the Democratic party no
longer is the party of leaders. No one
has a vision for the future that has
been translated into action in the pre-
sent. No one has a crusade that they
believe in and for which they are will-
ing to sacrifice much more than their
name. We lack role models in this
generation. That is, we have no Bella
Abzugs, no more Ronald Reagans.

Is it any surprise then, that young
people are turning to the Republican
party for their future? We have seen
and can judge what lower interest
rates mean, what lower inflation
amounts to, and what a sense of
direction can mean. We have an idea
of what we want and we know those
who possess the leadership to bring
us closer to that goal.

And then we see what appears to be
the miracle of Ronald Reagan and
the new prosperity he brought to the
country. Sure, a few people were
unemployed in the recession of 1982,
but we cannot relate to figures that

their gradually degenerating son.
Broken stereos, tv’s and furniture
are definitely removed serving only
as direct evidence of an economical
ineptitude sure to thwart the cause
soon to be at hand. The car is washed
and waxed and detoxified, and all
“cigarette” burns are cleverly con-
cealed in an attempt to lend veracity
to the ensuing pleas for beans, skins,
or dollars, depending on which Fiji
one asks. This facade being com-
plete, the student lays in wait for his
suspecting prey.

Another less prominent group is
that comprised of those success con-
scious sons that desire only to con-
vince their parents of their
academic, and to a lesser extent,
social prowess. Any paper or test
that bears an acceptable grade will
be conspicuously displayed in the
most obvious of places; dorm or
apartment front doors, hotel room
pillows, etc. Most every student
possesses a favorite, or more of
ten, sympathetic professor. And
more often than not a mere handful
of these sympathizers exist in the en-
tire faculty body. These individuals
can be easily determined as those
having a voluminous line before their
door and an occasional threesome
leaving one, exhibiting tell tale
brown smudges on the nose and dirty
knees.

In an attempt to display social suc-
cess the son will resort to any
number of possibilities to obtain a
beautiful date to introduce to the
’rents. Bribery, blackmail and in ex-
treme cases, unadulterated cash in-
centives are not out of the question.

The final band of renegades is com-
posed of two sharply delineated self-
concious subgroups that result when
the parents “‘just can’t make it.’”’ One
approach to this situation will be
manifested in the dejection apparent
in the faces of the neglected in-
dividual. But probably the more com-
mon reaction, that of the other

5 =
speak of new unemployment claims
or people who have given up looking
for employment. All we know is that
recruiters are on campus and seniors
are speaking of job prospects that did
not exist two years ago.

But most of all, this generation of
students is very interested — indeed

— by material gain. We
are looking for what is available to us
— not just what is promised to us by a
patronizing federal government. We
know that success is available for
those who work hard, and a BMW in
the driveway is the sign that we have
achieved such success. We know that
opportunities to “get rich quick’’
seldom exist so instead we will
search for opportunities to get-rich-
quickly-but-not-too-fast. We measure
our success not in terms of whether
fewer people are below the poverty
line but whether we are in a higher
income bracket. The ‘‘Me-genera-
tion” is not dead.

So, when Bella Abzug conluded
that “future generations”’ will judge
us by how fair we are to the poor or
the minorities or how much we
recklessly spend in the pursuit of
something called ‘‘security and na-
tional defense,”’ it fell on deaf ears.
That is a tragedy. For in as much as
we hope to better our own lives, to
have a better future than did our
parents or to provide for our children
a better future than we ourselves
had, we need also think of those less
fortunate who also have that same vi-
sion but who, for any reason, have
not achieved that end.

Perhaps I admire Abzug for the
same reason that I admire Ronald
Reagan. They both believe in a vision
so strong that they are willing to
work themselves to the grave for the
completion of that end — albeit op-
posing ends in these cases. Both are
leaders, And that is what we -- the
emerging electorate — are looking
for.

subgroup, the other half of those
unattended students, wil] be joyfully
thwarted the deceitful efforts of the
previously mentioned groups. To ac-
complish this end they will wreck
drunken, lawless havoc over the
campus as usual and make com-
ments in front of their friends’
parents concerning drug connec-
tions, honor trials, drunk driving
charges, pregnancies, test failures
and chronicly missed classes.

Regardless of the goals in mind,
approach taken or presence or
absence of parents we're sure
everyone will make it. They always
have before. A few sons will be
richer, some poorer, some will have
guilty consciences, and some just
befuddled hungover consciences, but
at least for now, we don’t have to con-
sider daughters on our parents’
weekend.

a |

Changes

S
s
outlined
To the Editors: ea
We wish to inform the student body.

of the changes which will be taking”
place at Centel in November when
the business office moves to Charlot-
tesville and to explain how these
changes will affect both the students
at large and the Student Telephone
Union members. si

In the future, telephone users in.
Lexington can either mail their bills
to Charlottesville in the envelope pro-
vided, or they can pay in person at
either of the Dominion Bank loca-
tions in town. If a person has a ques-
tion about his bill he can still call
463-2121. This will be a toll-free call to
Lexington area service representa-
tives in Charlottesville. Repair and

installation service will still be avail- .

able out of Lexington.

Also in the future STU members «

will be treated as normal telephone
customers regarding billing. If a bill
is final and has not been paid, phone

service will be disconnected and col- :

lection notices sent. Then, and

only then, will Centel contact STU. -
STU will pay the bill and contact the .

student for reimbursement. Trans-

cripts will be withheld until STU is «
repaid, and students who refuse to .

pay will be sent to Student Control.

Finally, students with consistently -
high phone bills will be asked to _

make an additional deposit or to take
out another membership in STU.

If a student is unable to pay his bill,
he should contact STU before phone

service is disconnected in order to -

work out some sort of arrangement.

The STU office is in Room 209 of the —
Student Center and is open from 3to4 «
p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays forthe _

fall term,

Christopher R.Carter’87 °
Nelson R. Patterson’86 |

STU Co-Chairmen :

Correction

The Ring-tum Phi last week incor- ’
rectly reported that W&L theater
arts Professor Al Gordon is playing
the part of Juno, Captain Boyle’s-
wife, in “Juno and the Paycock.””
Gordon is playing Joxer, a friend of:
Boyle. mH

‘Feckless’ editorial
raises some eyebrows.

To the Editors:

Your Oct. 18 issue contained one of
the most feckless editorials I have
seen in your paper in the last two
years.

Changes to accommodate the en-
rollment of women and W&L are go-
ing to take a lot more strength of
character than it takes to change a
policy on courtesy titles. If you ge-
nuinely welcome the addition of
women to the student body, you know
full well the policies and attitudes
that have to change are far more
substantive than titles.

It’s nice that you open doors, give
up your seats and stand when women
enter the room. In fact, it’s quite
charming. I could even believe you if
you simply said these actions were
the result of good manners. But don’t
try to tell me that you do it out of
respect. That just isn’t true.

You need look no further than the
pages of your own paper to be certain
that your attitude toward women is
not based in esteem or respect. Hard-

ly an issue appears without some’.

;

{

simple-minded comment or article’!

which degrades, ridicules or casti:+':
gates women. See, for example, the :
article (“How (not) to study for’:

:
¥
;

2
5
;

midterms’’) appearing next to your’,
editorial which includes such “‘res:::.
pectful’”’ comments as: “‘...the zeal of: !

a female Fancy Dress bid seeker’’..:;
and “patronizing heifer.” As we used’:
to say in Richmond — weak. He

Respect is a good place to start in’

ig

welcoming next year’s female stu:
dents. Let that respect be genuine; ”

not the false respect that stands when.

a woman enters the room, but whis-

pers ‘‘Abuse her.

She =

$

i
'

thinks...(whatever the rest of that ig-

noble comment in your last issue:

‘e

was).”’ If that’s what respect means |

to you, welcoming is not the word for '
what you feel about the women who -

don’t you know, is respect.

:
o

'N

* will enroll here next year. Neither,

Karen L. Donegan.

Law Class of ’85

Dismissal of White
called ‘hatchet job’

To the Editors:

I have read your article (‘‘Minority
Dean ‘terminated,’ ” Oct. 25, 1984) of
Dean White’s dismissal at the end of
the academic year and I was quite
distressed by the administration’s
accusation that Dean White was an
ineffective recruiter. Actually, if one
looks at the facts, Dean White has
done an excellent job as compared to
the person who has been recruiting
lately. Dean White recruited 11
blacks for the class of 1987; in the
Class of 1988, with the admissions
department taking over, the recruit-
ed number was five black students.
And this trend will continue because
of minimal effort made by this
administration in recruiting blacks
to W&L this year.

I personally resent this hatchet job
the administration is using to dis-
credit Dean White because this
shows their lack of sensitivity to the
repression most blacks endure on
campus,

Dean White was correct: Segrega-
tion does remain firmly entrenched
at W&L. His statement that ‘‘many of
the white students here have never
had to deal with blacks as equals,” is
quite true. A blatant example of this
demeaning attitude surfaced in the
Sept. 20 issue of The Phi, which
stated, ‘‘Are minorities ‘suppressed,’
or do they purposely avoid the cam-
pus mainstream?’ As a black person
on this campus, I get tired of this in-
sulting attitude. I’ve been here al-
mest three years and this attitude
hasn’t changed.

Many blacks, including myself, are

involved in many activities and these -

kinds of statements are a slap in our |
faces.

I think the administration really —
needs to address some of these pro-
blems. When Dean White said, ‘I’m .
deeply committed to what I think the —
University should stand for,” I be- |
lieve it because he’s made it easier |
for black students to deal with the —

prevalent attitudes on campus.

And, as far as the EC and the Hon-
or System are concerned, it makes
me wonder when the EC secretary is
quoted as saying, ‘‘I don’t think it’s
the position of an administrator to
say anything about the honor system
that’s not in support of it.’’ Well,
maybe if this was the Kremlin that

might be all right, but I’m in

America where freedom of speech is
the cornerstone of our democracy.
The fact is Dean White was address-
ing the problem that minorities (and:

probably women in the future) have: ..:

no protection of our basic human’
rights under this current system.

‘
‘

In closing, I would hope that the ad-':

ministration would reinstate Dean:
White. He is not the problem. The‘
problems are race relations and dis-

i
‘
4

i.

‘

crimination within the system. I’:
would hope that President Wilson. ;

would stop this divisiveness and
come together with the minority stu-.
dents to address the real problems:
that face us. For I believe that with:
the help of the administration, as:
well as the EC, we can overcome:
these problems. ‘

William C. Rhinehart :

i
“i
ing-tum Phi, November 1, 1984, Page 3

ee ee i cd

   

On The Record ,
Buchanan: Reagan's large lead is unusual

   

 

 

Following is a partial transcript of a conversation Mon-
day between Ring-tum Phi chief editors Mike Allen and
: Bruce Potter and W&L political science Professor William
: Buchanan. Buchanan, who graduated from W&L in 1941
and joined the faculty in 1966, was chairman of the political
" science department until last spring. Potter and Allen will
« be the analysts on Cable Nine/WLUR-FM's election cover-
, age Tuesday night.
Phi: One of your classes did a computer project show-
- ing that, in theory, Walter Mondale could defeat Ronald
, Reagan. That was on paper. Is there any way that Mon-
dale could do it in real life?
‘ Buchanan: That was based on 1980 results. That is,
, Mondale is a replica of Carter and the states’ figures
are the figures for 1980 and the fellow who wrote the
‘ program made some assumptions based upon congres-
, Sional votes about the liberalism and conservatism of
these states. The class decided how important money
‘ would be and how important time spent campaigning
, would be; how important issues — and there were a
staggering number of issues, about 30 of them —would
‘have an impact and how important that impact would
, be. And so if you make all of these assumptions then
~ Mondale — the mythical Mondale — could have beaten
’ Carter in two instances with less than 50 percent of the
popular vote. Like every simulation, it’s got a lot of
assumptions in there.

Phi: Let’s put aside the simulation for a few minutes.
You're Bob Beckel or one of the other Mondale strate-
gists. What would you have done to promote your candi-

‘date in the face of this tremendously popular candi-
date?

Buchanan: I think what the Democratic party should
‘have done, given the vast gap between Reagan’s popu-
_larity and Mondale’s, would be to do more or less what

Mondale has done, and that is to stress the issues, stress
‘the weaknesses, particularly the deficit and the tax
_Matters, and perceive the election as an appeal to the

future, that is, an opportunity to say, ‘Here are all the
-things that I said in 1984.’’ Now, in 1988, the Democratic
_candidate is going to call attention to all of these things
which have gotten us into the perilous state we have got-
‘ten into since the 1984 election. That is, if the Republi-
,cans had done all those things which we say they ought
to have done, they would be in better shape, the eco-
*nomy would be in better shape, all sorts of things would
_ be better off now, in 1988. Now, that’s not the way to win
an election, and I’m not sure that there was any way,
‘given the selection of Mondale, given the knock-down,
_drag-out primary fight, given the Republican superiori-
ty in resources, television, given all the factors which
’entered into this from the beginning. This is...essential-
_.ly the party-responsibility model.

Phi: So you’re saying the Democrats should have us-
‘ed this election as a guidepost toward 1988?

. Buchanan: Well, any party should always doit, but it

seems to me that given the indication in the polls that

"you are going, in all probability, to lose this election,
-having made the bravest effort you can. But, remem-

ber, a politician is supposed only to have a myopic view
‘in which he looks only at the upcoming election.

. Phi: Now, you talk about an election of the future.

Would Gary Hart have been an effective candidate in
‘that way? Is he a man to look at in 1988? Should Demo-
:crats have looked harder at him in 1984?

_ Buchanan: I think had not the whole nominating sys-

tem been as it is, had it not been what it is, that is, had

*Mondale not gotten the support he got by starting a cou-
ple of years in advance and pinning down both money

gt
eae

    

and support, there were certainly evidences during the
spring that Hart had more appeal. So a different
nominating process might have turned up Hart as the
nominee and there’s some evidence...that Hart was a
more appealing candidate.

Phi: You talk about the nominating process. Univer-
sity of Virginia political science Professor Larry Sabato
said Walter Mondale’s become more respectable: now
he’s just a chuckle instead of a guffaw. Talk about dam-
ning with faint praise. What is it about the nominating
process that gives a major party a candidate with such
shallow support?

Buchanan: Lots of things. Principally, the impor-
tance of the Iowa caucus and the New Hampshire pri-
mary, which means whoever’s in there ahead gets a

RERUNS TTT
‘If a glacier

were to des-
cend on the
West, there

= would be a
4 | flood in the

a moun...
~

whole lot of support in the media as a result of doing
well with a trivial proportion of the Democratic voters.
And then having amassed sufficient money to get
matching federal campagin funds to do better in the
succeeding primaries, and having an organization and
all of these things, which aren’t necessarily what ap-
peal to voters.

Phi: Hart found that you live by the media sword, but
you also die by the media sword. A very similar thing
happened this summer with Geraldine Ferraro. Do you
think that she will be seen as blazing a trail as far as a
female on the ticket, or has she left a bad taste in peo-
ple’s mouths?

Buchanan: I don’t think she has. I think she survived
that very well...certainly those were legitimate news
stories.

Phi: So you think she’s a positive role model for other
female candidates?

Buchanan: Yes.

Phi: Were you surprised that her nomination doesn’t
seem to have helped Mondale more than it did?

Buchanan: Actually, one of the things I think will be
interesting to watch is what the gender gap is going to
amount to. She is a product of — not a cause of — the
gender gap...One of the interesting things to look for
after this election will be the width of the gender gap,
and my hunch is it may be wider than it would have
otherwise because Reagan is so far ahead. That is,
there may be a number of women who are more or less
sympathetic to Reagan for other reasons, who like him,
and if they thought their vote would defeat him, would
go along with him. But given this vast advantage he’s
got, they’ll say, “Well, I’ll go ahead and vote for the
Democrats just to send him a message.”’

Phi: Reagan has maintained his overwhelming lead

since the conventions. Is that surprising?

Buchanan: Surprising how? If you want toask me am
I surprised that so many people like Ronald Reagan, I'll
Say yes.

Phi: Is it unusual?

Buchanan: Yes, I think it’s rare that one candidate
stays this far ahead. Certainly Lyndon Johnson in 1964
had comparable leads. Nixon in 1972 had comparable
leads.

Phi: When the first polls came out in the beginning of
September showing Reagan with such a big lead, did
you still feel that Mondale was not yet finished and
could still come back? What would it have taken?

Buchanan: Normally, in past elections, where the
Republicans had a lead, the Democratic candidate has
clipped up close. For example, if you want to look at
1968, Humphrey was getting closer and closer after a
substantial lead by Nixon. And if you go back to the
1950s, Stevenson did a bit of this. That is, you normally
expect, when you’ve got a Republican with a substan-
tial lead, for the Democratic candidate to gain on him.
Mondale, rather than that, has peaked a little bit after
the first debate, and then has drifted gently downward,
in spite of the fact that he seems to be campaigning a lot
more effecively than he did earlier.

Phi: What sort of effect do you think Reagan’s coat-
tails will have here in the Sixth District of Virginia?
The Democratic incumbent, Jim Olin, won by a very,
very narrow margin in 1982, Will Reagan’s popularity
help the Republican candidate, Ray Garland?

Buchanan: You've got to balance that off against two
years of incumbency and a very effective cultivation of
the electorate in the district and I would say that Gar-
land has not been all that effective of a candidate. I
haven’t been following it that closely, but I would guess
that Olin will win.

Phi: A topic of discussion in the spring when Jesse
Jackson was running so well was the effect increased
black voter registration might have on the election. Al-
though that may not affect the presidental race, will it
affect some congressional races?

Buchanan: The intriguing proposition is what turnout
is going to be. It picked up in 1982 for the first time in
two decades. There’s been a lot of new registration. You
would guess that if it were going to be a close election,
that we would have a somewhat of an increase in turn-
out. On the other hand, if these people don’t vote ration-
ally in terms of Anthony Downs, but if they vote for
symbolic reasons — civic duty, or because they like
Ronald Reagan, think he’s a nice guy, or something like
that, or reaffirm their patriotic impulses or something
of that sort — then you get a fairly high turnout. And I
wouldn’t guess which of these is going to happen, al-
though I think we will know, at least be able to make
some better guesses, after we see what turnout’s like.

Phi: We’re talking about 10 and 20 point margins in
the popular vote. Should Republicans and others see
this as a mandate for Reagan to continue the agenda
that he set and is this a mandate for other candidates in
the country to push those sort of policies?

Buchanan: I would say so...Certainly if it comes out
the way the polls now indicate, you’d be compelled to
see it as a mandate. Then what happens, that’s another
very interesting proposition.

Phi: And that’s what the Democrats will be dealing
with in 1988. Now we’re talking about a Democratic
humiliation on Nov. 6 between 10 and 20 points. Are any
of these primary candidates or Mondale to be consider-
ed for 1988 or will we see new faces?

Buchanan: Oh, I think four years can make a lot of
difference.

Phi: Can it make any difference for Walter Mondale,
or is he finished?

Buchanan: On the past record, an unsuccessful candi-
date rarely gets the nomination twice. On the other
hand, if the Republicans should do badly for the next
four years, and I think, given the deficit and Mondale’s
contention that either party is going to have to raise tax-
es, they’re going to be in quite a dilemma. The Demo-
crats are going to be able to say on one hand, ‘You lied
to us,” or on the other hand, “‘You’ve ruined the
economy.” This is assuming that an increase in the
deficit over the next four years is going to have some
important adverse effect.

Phi: Do you see a bright future for Geraldine Fer-
raro?

Buchanan: Certainly, I see a brighter future for
women candidates for all sorts of offices. It seems to me
she’s done pretty well...1 would say she would be far
more credible than any woman has ever been before,
but that doesn’t mean that she’s any more credible than
some of the senators or governors or Mario Cuomo.

Phi: I’m going to ask you to play Democratic strat-
egist once again. What should the Democrats be doing
for the next few years while they're waiting for the Re-
publicans to make a disaster of the economy? What
should they be doing as far as offensive steps in looking
for 19887

Buchanan: They should have a set of principles and
programs and parlay into gains whatever weaknesses
in the Republican policy arise. For example, somebody
is going to have to decide what to do about the deficit.
What are you going to cut? Welfare and various sorts of
social programs have been cut already pretty substant-
ially. So you cut them more. That expands the group of
people who are unhappy and can accuse the Republi-
cans of lack of consideration for the underprivileged
and that can lose them some votes. Moving up into the
middle class, you revise the tax structure. Are you go-
ing to go along with the conservatives, as seems to be
suggested now, with some sort of a flat tax, or a value-
added tax, or sales tax that will again hit the lower in-
come people? Or are you going to lose the support of the
big conservative givers and the people who want a less
progressive tax? All of these decisions, whichever way
you go, are going to mean some dissent within the
Republican party. Are you going to cut defense? Can
you cut defense? The money’s in the pipeline now. It
seems to me all of the decisions they’re going to face
are potentially destructive and if you want to look at
landslides, what happened to the last two people who
won landslide victories?

Phi: Well, one of them almost went to prison. What
happened to the other?

Buchanan: The other one got us into a war that caus-
ed him to decide not to run again. So landslide victories
may not be as helpful as squeaking through.

Phi: At this point, what are the circumstances in
which the result Nov. 6 could be anything other than a
Reagan landslide?

Buchanan: If a glacier were to descend on the West,
there would be a flood in the South, leaving only an
island consisting of the Midwest and New England
states and the District of Columbia. If Reagan were to
have a stroke and Bush simultaneously were to be
shown to have had an affair with Kruschev’s daughter.
What I’m saying is, you know, it’s absurd....It’ll take a
fairly catastrophic event to overturn it.

 

Traditional
Clothing.

Fine traditional clothing is more than a matter of taste. It is also a

statement of thoughtful consideration for the standards of craftsmanship, material

and design. We have been serving the students of Washington & Lee for over 50 years.

Our Fall and Winter selection of men’s clothing, furnishings, shoes and sportswear and

our women’s sportswear reflect the tradition in styling and quality that makes fine clothing

both lasting and versatile, season after season, year after year.

A PARENT’S WEEKEND SPECIAL

ALL, SPORT COATS, BLAZERS AND SUITS

20% Off

Original Price

See Our HARRIS TWEEDS IN
HERRINGBONES, TICKS, ETC.

The College Town Shop

111 West Nelson Street

 
io “gy Wy ES Pesce Fetes © tte, eeuw Crewe: «, 175

 

ELEUIION ‘84

 

See eee eee eee eRe eee eae

 

Faculty favors Mondale, Democrats in poll

Washington and Lee faculty favor
Democrat Walter F. Mondale by
nearly a 3-1 margin over Republican
incumbent Ronald Reagan in next
week’s presidential election, accord-
ing to a Ring-tum Phi poll taken last
week.

Mondale garnered 70.3 percent of
the vote by receiving votes from 64 of
the 91 faculty members who returned
ballots. Reagan received 24 votes, or
26.4 percent, Libertarian candidate
David Bergland received one vote
and two faculty members indicated
no preference.

Of the 143 ballots mailed to faculty
members, 91 had been returned by
Tuesday, for a 63.6 percent response
rate.

Faculty members also gave strong
support to Democratic candidates for
the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives.

Democrat Edythe Harrison,
challenging incumbent Senator John

W. Warner, a Washington and Lee
alumnus, received 49.5 percent of the
votes to Warner’s 40.7 percent. Nine
faculty members indicated that they
either were undecided or had no
preference.

Most polls show Warner with a
wide lead heading into the election.

In Virginia’s Sixth Congressional
District, which includes Rockbridge
County, incumbent Democratic Rep.
Jim Olin easily outdistanced
Republican challenger Ray Garland
among the faculty. Olin received 84.6
percent of the votes, while Garland
managed only 15.4 percent.

Asked to classify their general
political leanings, 44 faculty
members, or 48.4 percent, described
themselves as Democrats. Of these,
nine said they are weak Democrats,
20 described themselves as average
Democrats, 14 said they are strong
Democrats and one termed himself a
Democratic Socialist.

Only 17 faculty members, or 18.7
percent, described themselves as
Republicans, and this included three
weak Republicans, five average Re-
publicans and nine strong
Republicans.

Twenty-five faculty members, 27.5
percent, called themselves _in-
dependents, two said they were
Libertarians and one described
himself as a Whig. Two faculty
members indicated no preference.

For the most part, the faculty tend-
ed to strongly support the presiden-
tial candidate they favored. Of those
who said they would vote for Mon-
dale, 64.1 percent support him
strongly, 20.3 percent gave him
average support and 15.6 percent
gave him weak support. Of those who
favor Reagan, 70.8 percent do so
strongly, 25.0 percent gave him
average support and 4.2 percent sup-
port him weakly

If the election were held today,

for whom would you vote?

  

84.6%

   

 

 

70.3%
49.5%
a 40.7%
26.4%
i 15.4%
Mondale Reagan ] Harrison Warner Olin Garland

Percentages may not add to 100 because of rounding.

 

 

 

Mondale: ‘courage and high hope’

 

By EVERETT HAMILTON

In San Francisco and throughout the campaign,
former Vice President Walter Mondale has made
his message simple to the American people. If
they are not satisfied with the President’s record,
then he should be given a chance in the White
House. The Reagan record is weak and very un-
impressive while Mondale’s program will make
‘all’ Americans stronger to face the challenges
of the future.

If the American public does not realize this and
still plans to vote for President Reagan it must be
because of his polished rhetoric and in the words
of Mario Cuomo ‘‘the failure to separate the
salesman from the product.”

This country is facing the largest deficit of all
the former deficits combined. Unlike the Presi-
dent who promised to balance the budget by 1983,
Mondale has made a realistic and sensible pro-
mise to try to reduce it by 50 percent. This he will
do by increasing taxes, on a progressive scale,
and a 15 percent minimum tax on corporations.
Although this is unpopular and unwanted by both
Repulicans and Democrats, it is necessary to se-
cure our future. The mere fact that Mondale out-
lined his plan before Nov. 6 is an indication of his

 

honesty with Americans and how that code will be
followed during the four years of his adminis-
tration.

The Vice President is committed to increasing
the opportunities and rights of minorities and
women. His choice of Geraldine Ferraro as his
running mate, and Charles Rangel as assistant
campaign manager is a reflection of his belief.
When elected, Mondale will push for the re-intro-
duction of the Equal Rights Amendment, and
give much needed strength to the Civil Rights
Commission. He will advocate not only demo-
cracy in Central America and the Middle East,
but also in the black-majority, un-democratic na-
tion of South Africa.

A strong, but safe and efficient, national
defense will be among his top priorities. During
the past four years we have not seen a stronger
defense emerge, but instead wealthier contrac-
tors. Oddly enough, the spare parts scandal and
contract overruns have gone unnoticed by the
waste-cutting President. Instead, he focuses his
attention to slashing assistance to poor families
because they are not “‘truly needy.”

Thankfully, when Mondale is elected he will
scrap some of the costly and dangerous weapons
systems and concentrate on building convention-

al forces. He will also move swiftly to negotiate
with the Soviet Union on ways to decrease the
chances of a nuclear holocaust, something the
present administration has yet to accomplish.

Finally, this new Democratic administration
will represent all Americans by not trying to
legislate their morality. Regardless of. his per-
sonal views on abortion, he has decided that fe-
males, according to their beliefs, family values
and spiritual teachings, should make this most
private and emotional choice and not govern-
ment. Mondale supports the wisdom of the found-
ing fathers when they separated church from
state and will not join forces with the likes of the
Rev. Jerry Falwell, in demanding a constitution-
al amendment to re-establish Christian prayer in
the public schools.

Our choice is clear as a bell on Nov. 6. Walter
Mondale and Geraldine Ferraro are the only
chances this country has to redirect itself from
the failing and misguided policies of the last four
years. Without a doubt, this Democratic leader-
ship will propel America into the next decade
with warm courage and high hope.

(Hamilton is vice president of the W&L Young
Democrats).

YDs seek increased recognition

 

By JOHN ROWE
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee students
demonstrate conservative patterns
in many areas, and this conserva-
tism is especially evident in the 1984
presidential election. There are some
students in Lexington, however, who
dare to be different — those students
who are members of Young Demo-
crats.

“It’s a real challenge to work with
Young Democrats,”’ explained senior
Jim Murphy, president of the group.
“There is little Democratic support
among the students at Washington
and Lee but our members are not in-
volved just for the sake of mere par-
ticipation — they’re truly interested
in Democratic ideas.”’

Several years ago, Young Demo-
crats was an almost invisible group
on campus with little membership,
participation or efforts for growth.
Since last year, however, under the
direction of Murphy and vice-pres-
ident Everett Hamilton, a sopho-
more, the group has sought more stu-
dent involvement and increased re-
cognition on campus.

“We don’t try to compete with
more organized and larger College
Republicans,’’ Murphy noted. “I
knew before coming to W&L about
the anonymity and small size of
Young Democrats here, but I'd like
to get the group on its feet to be an
alternative to College Republicans.”’

Sophomore member Rich Erickson
said he sees the Young Democrats’
existence as a component for diversi-
ty of opinion and a stimulus for stu-
dent debate. ‘‘Having opposing polit-
ical viewpoints among the students
allows them to expand their views,
not just reinforce their existing opi-
nions,’’ Erickson said. He also noted
that some Republican-oriented stu-
dents “are a little intolerant of
others’ views, and (they) are not us-
ed to having their views challenged.”

Through the guidance of Hamilton
and Young Democrat Secretary
Dave Hanna, the student group has
seen more involvement with the De-
mocratic organization in Lexington.
Young Democrat members attended
the opening of the Democratic head-
quarters on Oct. 13 as well as an Oct.
28 fundraiser for Rep. Jim Olin.

This fall, the Young Democrats
have donated manpower and time to

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

      
   

Mon. - Sat. 8:30 -6:00 3
Sun. 1-5 =

 

Pizza Hut

NOW

Delivers!!

$2 OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA

Or $1 off any medium. Hurry, this offer expires soon.

the re-election campaign of Olin, the
Democratic congressman for Virgin-
ia’s sixth District, which includes
Rockbridge County. Members have
answered phones and have perform-
ed other odd jobs. On election day
Tuesday the Young Democrats will
work at the Democratic headquart-
ers at the corner of Main and Wash-
ington streets, and will help the staff
there follow the election results.

“Tt will be both fun and work,”’ said
Hamilton, ‘‘with a band, wide-screen
TV and a cash bar to entertain the
workers.”’

The group has encountered some
difficulty this year in attracting sup-
port from the statewide Democratic
organizations. Student participants
and party representatives alike are
concentrating on the campaigns of
candidates such as Olin and Edythe
Harrison, the Democratic contender
for the U.S. Senate seat of incumbent
John Warner.And although Young
Democrats may be in the minority at
W&L, the organization is both state
and nationwide. Murphy attributed
the greater participation at Virgin-
ia’s state schools to the increased
diversity that comes with a larger
student body.

“At other colleges,’’ Murphy said,
“the student body is less Repub-
lican.’’ He added that other parts of
the nation, such as his native Mas-
sachusetts, may have more Demo-
cratic awareness and interest among

the population.

“In the future, we will be working
with the YDs at the neighboring wo-
men’s colleges,’ said Hamilton.
“And YDs will also help sponsor De-
mocratic groups at the local high
schools. We want a feeder program
for younger students who will later
become voters.’’

Young Democrats at W&L is a
growing group seeking those stu-
dents who enjoy giving their time and
who want to learn more about parti-
san politics. “‘In the next two years,
I’d want to be on par with the College
Republicans,” said Hamilton, who
feels the leadership and priorities set
by him and the other officers will
strengthen the organization. ‘We
need Democratic participation to
help break that supposed Republican
monopoly at W&L,” Hamilton said.
“You don’t have to be a Republican
to be a conservative,’’ Murphy said.

 

 

Hours: 7-11

 

 

Poplar Hill Exxon

Foreign and Domestic
Auto Service and Repair

on Route ¢0 at I-81

463-2826

 

 

 

 

SPECIAL

Students speak out

ae, ee

on campaign issues

 

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

 

The 1984 presidential campaign
has been a heated, bitter contest
focusing both on issues and the
merits of two perceived styles of
government. President Reagan has
stressed the economic recovery, the
renewed American spirit of con-
fidence and a stronger defense as his
achievements; Mondale and the
Democratic party have tried to
deflate Reagan’s themes by
emphasizing the size of the national
debt, the ‘‘unfairness’’ of the benefits
of the recovery and the prospects for
a new arms race.

The two most important issues in
this election cited by W&L students
were the economy and foreign policy.
Related to the issue of the economy,
students were asked whether they
thought the economic recovery would
be able to cover the national debt or
whether Reagan would have to raise
taxes.

Senior Jim Berry said, ‘‘I think
that if he doesn’t raise taxes per se,
he will have to restructure the tax
system to bring in more revenue. I
don’t think he will actually raise the
bracket amounts.”’

Alex Reeves, a freshman, said, ‘‘I
think that to an extent the recovery
can take care of the debt. However,
sooner or later he will have to raise
taxes.’”’

Students also were asked whether
they thought the budget should be
cut, Freshman Tom McBride said, ‘‘I
don’t think they should be made on
defense. Cut some on welfare and
social security. Those programs
started by Roosevelt for a temporary
purpose should be cut some.’’ The
consensus among students seemed to
be that the level of defense spending
should be maintained, and that
budget cuts should be made in social

programs.

Students also were asked if they
agreed with Reagan’s proposal to
build a missile-defense system in
space, and what they thought of his
promise to share the technology with
the Russians. ‘‘I feel that an ultimate
defense plan is what we should strive
for,” said freshman Syd Speer. ‘‘As
to sharing the information with the
Russians, it will all depend on the

DPVPVLP VFO Vay

George's Hairstylist
136 Varner Lane

Behind Leggetts, open from 9-5 p.m.
Monday thru Friday.
Our operators are: Rita Mason * Debbie « Rita Huffman

 

state of our relations atthetime.”

Ted Willard said he agrees with the
idea of building the system, but.
disagrees with the notion of sharing .
it. “I agree with that, but I don’t.
think it should be shared with the
Russians. I think it is a good idea, .
because then you're talking securi-
Be :

Superpower relations have been .
another much-discussed issue in the
presidential campaign. Mondale has
attacked Reagan on this point, say--.
ing that he has not made a serious ef- .
fort to negotiate with the Russians. ;.
Reagan blames a lack of agreements -
on the fact that the Soviet leadership .
during his term has been filled by .
three men suffering from failing
health, and that the Soviets have _
been unwilling to move away from
unreasonable positions.

The prevalent opinion among W&L
students surveyed is that Reagan’s
handling of relations with the Soviets
has been good. Many said they feel
Reagan is responsible for a greater
amount of respect for the U.S. on the
part of the Soviets. :

The Republican National Conven- -
tion this summer was the site of
much speculation as to who would be ,
the 1988 Republican presidential can: ,

didate. Most of the students polled .
thought that George Bush will be the ..

nominee.

Geraldine Ferraro’s place on the ‘:

Democratic ticket was a first, but the <
W&L students polled seem to havea :
low opinion of her. ts

“T hate her,’’ said James Clark,
‘not because she’s a woman—I just
dislike her.’’ ‘

Other students said they thought

wD

she was not capable of being vice :
president, or as Reeves said, ‘I think ).

that Geraldine Ferraro is not ex«
perienced enough to hold any office;
however, her lack of intelligence
matches that of Mondale.”’ ¥

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

POPP DPD

¢ Jennie * Linda ¢ Donna ¢ Sandra * George
463-3975

OVIVLPV POP AP LI G

POPUP PLP IIOP QOL

Photographers Needed

Are you an underclassman who enjoys

attending parties at local colleges? |
Good 35mm camera and flash needed. |:

Must be reliable, experience preferred.

GOOD SALARY

 

oC

 

a

LIVE:
pELIVERY

Pizza

Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon per party
per delivery at participating Pizza Hut* Special Delivery units.

Not valid for dine-in or carryout, or in conjunction with any
other Pizza Hut’ offer. 1/20¢ redemption value. ¢ 1984,

Pizza Hut, Inc. Limited Deli ;
Offer cna only an pe get May 11-1 5-84 “Hut.
600 E. Nelson FREE

4 & 3 -J600 Lexington, Va, DELIVERY

CALL NOW

Chris Elliott 463-4722
or Randy Mathis (804) 320-0580

ee eee ee

 
 

 

Rep. Jim Olin

By BRUCE POTTER
Chief Editor

 

Squaring off in their final debate before Tues-
day’s election, the two congressional candidates
from Virginia’s Sixth District, which includes
Lexington and Rockbridge County, argued
yesterday about domestic constitutional issues.

Appearing before about 130 students, faculty
and townspeople in the Moot Courtroom of Lewis
Hall, Democratic incumbent Jim Olin and Repub-
lican challenger Ray Garland answered ques-
tions about the Equal Rights Amendment, abor-
tion, school prayer and the federal budget deficit.

The candidates previously had agreed on the
topics the questions would cover, and each re-
viewed the questions before the debate.

Saying he favors the Equal Rights Amendment,
Olin added, ‘When our country was founded, we
had women, but the men voted, and the laws were
written around men. And that’s been gradually
changed over the years. It can continue to change
that way.”

Although he supported the ERA as a member of
Virginia’s General Assembly, Garland said, he
added that ‘another seven-year, divisive battle”
would result if the amendment were resubmitted

to the states.

mors ELECTION 2” 8 4rennenecnnennnen ns rn RE
Congressional candidates debate here at campaign end

“I think it would be demeaning to this great
issue to make it the subject of a divisive struggle
where people holding widely differing ideological
points of view use that issue as a kind of ideolo-
gical club to beat each other over the head with.”

In his rebuttal, Olin said, ‘‘To slough it off on
the basis that it would be divisive would be to say,
‘I’m not in favor of it.’ ”’

The candidates clashed over two religious is-
sues — abortion and school prayer. Garland argu-
ed that each issue should be presented to the na-
tion in the form of a constitutional amendment in
order that ‘‘a great national debate”’ could result.

Submitting these amendments to the people
would be “healthy and positive,’ Garland added.

“When an amendment of this kind comes be-
fore the House of Representatives,” Olin retort-
ed, ‘rather than copping out and saying, ‘We'll
transmit this to the public,’ we’re elected up there
to exercise our judgment. People want us to vote
for or against issues of this kind. . . . I think if
we're elected, we’re elected to declare our judg-
ments and vote thereon.”

After each candidate had presented his ideas
for balancing the budget, he attacked his oppo-
nent’s schemes.

Garland’s plan, which calls for a line-item veto,
a balanced budget amendment and a limit in the

growth of spending to an amount less than the
growth in revenue, “just won’t work,”’ Olin said.

“The plan is just not carefully thought out. It’s
mirrors. It’s kind of like voodoo economics. It just
doesn’t hang together.”’

“Jim,’’ Garland responded, ‘‘I just wish you'd
think what you're saying.”’

“Now, talk about voodoo economics, you must
have learned from a real expert when you came
up with your program.”’

Olin calls for a small increase in defense spend-
ing and a tightening of tax loopholes to balance
the budget in four years without actually raising
tax rates.

In his closing statement, Garland noted his be-
lief in a strong judiciary, which he called ‘‘the
single secret element in the considerations of the
Founding Fathers.”

“If you go to Congress,’ Garland added,
“‘you’ve got to have an agenda of what you want
to do when you get there. I’ve formulated that
agenda.”’

Emphasizing the importance of non-partisan
solutions to problems, Olin added, ‘‘One of the im-
portant things is, ‘How do you get things done in
government? What is the process?’ I’ve been
around this district for almost three years talking
to people, and I think I have a pretty good feel for
what they want.”

 

Ray Garland

Groups promote vote Reagan offers ‘recovery and strength’
‘by college students sis.

 

By JIM STRADER
Staff Reporter

 

In an election year when students
and young people are being courted
‘actively by both of the major political
parties and candidates, the question
of ‘political involvement and voting
eamong Washington and Lee students
arises, :

Both of the campus political organ-
izations, the College Republicans and
the Young Democrats, have made ef-
for'ts this fall to encourage W&L stu-
dents to exercise their voting rights.

Gerald Shepherd, vice chairman of
thé College Republicans, said that his
‘roup began its voter registration
drive at the start of the fall term by
contacting a survey of the freshman
tlass to determine political affilia-
tions.

fom that point, he said, the group
contacted those freshmen who pro-
fessed to be Republicans and inform-
ed-them of the procedure for regist-
vritig to vote and obtaining absentee
ballets. Their purpose was to encour-
age students to vote, not only in the
presidential race, but also in con-
greSsional contests in their home dis-
triets,

‘Phe Young Democrats also have
ge@r active on campus and in Lexing-
torf-President Jim Murphy said that
although the group is not affiliated
withithe national organization and
cannot do as much as the College
Republicans in terms of student re-
wistration, they have encouraged stu-
dents to vote,

Asfar as registering to vote in Lex-
mgton goes, the qualifications for a
student are no different than for any-
one, else. The distinction that is

«dade, however, is whether the stu-
(ent. maintains his primary resi-
dence here. This restriction often
disqualifies W&L students.

» Although students are here for the
nine months that classes meet, most
are still dependent upon their parents
vend considered to be domiciles of
a nother state or county. This fact
makes it impossible to register them
‘o vote here, said Mrs. Robert N.
Joyce, Lexington general registrar.

 

‘Tt is not our intention to deny
anyone the right to vote,” she said,
“‘but it is incumbent upon us to deter-
mine if they are a resident.”’

Ona statewide basis, students tend
to show a lack of interest in voting,
according to Susan Fitz-Hugh of the
Virginia Board of Elections.

‘ Figures calculated for last Novem-
ber’s election show that of the
2,329,691 registered voters in Virgin-
ia, only 344,895 were men and women
between the ages of 18 and 25.

Although these numbers are not
compiled until after an election, Fitz-
Hugh said usually there is an increas-
ed interest in a presidential election
year.

The Board of Elections sends re-
presentatives to each high school in
Virginia every year to encourage
students to register and to vote, she
said. A disappointing consequence
for the board is that ‘four years
later, we are taking them off of our
records.” She said that this may be
because the students leave the state,
but she feels it is more likely that
they simply lose interest.

 

By JOHN WINTERS
Staff Reporter

 

U.S. Sen. John Warner, R-Va., run-
ning for re-election against Demo-
crat Edythe Harrison, made what he
described as his most eagerly an-
ticipated campaign appearance of
the year at Washington and Lee last
Thursday.

“There’s no single appearance in
this campaign that I have looked for-
ward to more than this one,” alum-
nus Warner told a group of 150 stu-
dents in front of Lee Chapel.

“It was in this very spot six years
ago (during a similar campaign ap-
pearance) that I got the chemistry
that, ‘Mr. Warner, you’re going to
win this campaign.’ ”

Warner, who graduated in 1949, ad-
ded, ‘‘My association here, my learn-
ing...especially the honor code, has
been my guiding light every since I
departed this campus and it has
stood me well, particularly in public
life.”

In 25 years of public service, War-
ner said, ‘‘I have applied that honor
code to every single position that I
have been in.’’ Warner added that he

 

By GERALD SHEPHERD

Next Tuesday, the voters in America will re-
elect Ronald Reagan and George Bush; I will join
the majority in returning these gentlemen to the
offices they have held since Jan. 20, 1981. The
Reagan-Bush team should be re-elected for seve-
ral reasons. On the domestic front, the economy
is regaining the strength it lost during previous
administrations, and a pride in America per-
vades the country. In the area of foreign policy,
the country once again enjoys respect from allies
and opponents alike. The President has withstood
the temptation to yield to the Soviets; he has
defended democracy in other parts of the world,
especially in this hemisphere. Finally, the
Reagan administration provides, to borrow a
phrase, “‘leadership you can trust.’’

Since President Reagan assumed office, inter-
est rates and inflation have dropped; employ-
ment has risen. In 1980, interest rates were
around 21 percent; today they range from 11 to 12
percent. Inflation in January of 1981 was 12 to 13
percent, it has been at the 3 to 4 percent level for
two years and will remain low again in 1984. Over
six million more people now hold jobs than ever
before, and the unemployment rate is now lower
than when Reagan entered office. This adminis-
tration has begun to control federal spending. The
rate of increase in federal spending has been re-
duced and the increase of federal regulations,
many of them being of little use, has been slowed.

 

 

Warner praises honor system

has never been challenged on mat-

In other domestic areas, the President contin-
ues to perform admirably. The National Organi-
zation of Women claims Reagan suffers from a
so-called ‘‘gender gap.’’ In fact, Mondale’s gen-
der gap is greater than the President’s. Among
women, the President enjoys support from a
strong majority. Reagan has made many new ad-
vances in appointing women to high govern-
mental positions. Sandra Day O’Connor, the first
woman to serve on the Supreme Court, is a
Reagan appointee. Jeanne Kirkpatrick, an en-
lightened Democrat, serves as ambassador to the
United Nations. Margaret Heckler and Elizabeth
Dole both hold cabinet positions. Incidentally, the
only women in the U.S. Senate are Republicans.
To those who claim the Republican Party is in-
sensitive to women, the excellent record of this
administration speaks for itself, and the ‘‘Women
for Reagan” effort is one of the strongest facets of
the campaign. Ronald Reagan has no problem
appealing to women.

President Reagan has regained the confidence
of our allies. His foreign policy is one of strength
and dedication to peace. He has made genuine at-
tempts to achieve arms control, but the Soviets
walked away from the table. He has proven that
he will not be pushed around by other govern-
ments. During the Reagan administration, no
country has fallen under communist rule, but sev-
eral countries have become democratic. Demo-
cracy has flourished in several other places. No
foreign government has held our citizens hostage

for 444 days, and in one of the most glorious days
for America in recent years, the Marines rescued
the students on the island of Grenada.

Our allies and opponents know where this Pres-
ident stands. The vacillation of the previous ad-
ministration does not plague Reagan and Bush.
The determined policy reassures our allies and
convinces our enemies that we will not negotiate
from a position of weakness. As Ambassador
Kirkpatrick said in Dallas, “The Democrats
blame America first,’’ the President does not. As
George Bush said, ‘‘Reagan doesn’t go around
apologizing for the United States.”’

One of the many themes of this campaign is
leadership. President Reagan has proven himself
over the last four years. He is surrounded by peo-
ple who are leaders in their fields, George Shultz
and Donald Regan to name a couple.

The choice next Tuesday is clear. We can
continue on the route to recovery and strength, or
we can return to the malaise of the Carter-Mon-
dale years. George Will wrote last winter,
“America is standing tall and has a sharp crease
in its pants.”’ This sentence represents the re-
surging pride evident all across the country, and
it is the result of this administration. I suggest
that the majority of Americans and the nearly un-

animous student body of W&L are correct in sup-
porting President Ronald Reagan and Vice Presi-
dent George Bush.
(Shepherd is vice chairman of the W&L College
Republicans).

WA&L College Republicans —
foresee election victories

‘Rn BRU rm RRR RATAN
By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN

registration drive in several Lex-

ters of honor in business dealings.

“IT urge you, as you leave here, to
take it with you, to follow it, because
it will be a guardian angel,” he add-
ed.

Issuing a challenge to the au-
dience, Warner pointed to Lee Chapel
and Washington Hall and asked,
“Why can’t we have a building nam-
ed after you?” He told the mostly stu-
dent crowd to balance studies with
leisure. “Enjoy life. You'll take on
heavy obligations later,’ he said.
“Don’t overlook having one heck of a
good time.”’

Moving on to campaign issues,
Warner defined arms control as ‘‘the
most important issue facing this
country in the years to come.”’

Warner said he supported Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan’s arms reduc-
tion policies. A nuclear freeze, he ad-
ded, ‘‘is an illusory subject because
of the absence of the framework with
which it can be verified.”

According to Warner, Mondale’s
method of verification could not work
and Reagan’s plan is the only one
whose goals are achievable.

Warner concluded by saying he
wanted to keep this country, espec-

ially its volunteer army, strong.

When University President John D.
Wilson approached Warner to wel-
come him after his remarks, Warner
at first did not appear to remember
Wilson’s name. Then, after Wilson in-
troduced himself, Warner responded,
“Yes, I’ve read all your mail.’’

Placing both of his arms on Wil-
son’s shoulders, Warner continued,
“You've done well. You’ve come
through some tough decisions, but
I’m proud of you.”’

Speaking briefly with reporters
before he left, Warner said he sup-
ports the decision to begin admitting
women to the University’s under-
graduate ranks.

“‘T followed it with great interest;”’
Warner said. ‘‘The decision has been
made and I support that decision.”

“‘My feeling was that it was care-
fully considered by the board (of
trustees), and if you have a difficult
decision like that...it’s important to
have a fair, open and adequate pro-
cess. That process was followed.
There was input from the broadest
spectrum of the Washington and Lee
family before the board made its
decision.”’

 

 

 

x

By Appointment 463-9588

 

if Marie's Kain Sylens

Old Main Ss. (all

 

Lexinjiou, VA 24450

 

 

eGourmet Cookware

ee ee ee

Offer good until November 15th.

Open 10 a.m. to5p.m.,

 

Rockbridge Video Tape Center

with this coupon
only

$27.50

For VCR Rental plus 8 Movies.

Not good with other coupons

a

116 North Main Street
703-463-3683
New Christmas Shipment

In the ‘'V" where Main and Jefferson meet-close to W&L and VMI
Calendars @
eCuisinarts
Imported and domestic beers and wines

Soups

eJewelry eCandy

Discount on Special Orders
Also store in Wintergreen

a So

Se ee

Pediat dette titi entiation e

HODGE PODGE

Food, Specialty and Gift Shop

e@ Aprons

Monday thru Saturday

et I Eas CEES ere sy

 

     
      

2 Old Maia Sirect Mall

   
  
 
      
   
  

 

 
       
      
 

eCards Gifts *Toys

Sl yy ly ly: ly A ll: ll ly Re lly ly ly Ay ly lA ly Aly

Unique Gif of Ant

    

Staff Reporter

 

W&L College Republicans will be
staffing local polls on election day,
Tuesday, Nov. 6, and the organiza-
tion’s chairman foresees a victory
for both President Ronald Reagan
and Senator John W. Warner.

“We are quite confident the Presi-
dent will be re-elected, as well as
Sen. Warner,” said Patrick Hayden,
chairman of Washington and Lee’s
branch of the College Republicans.

Hayden said Warner, a 1949 grad-
uate of W&L, was ‘‘very pleased with
the turnout and enthusiasm’’ he
found during his campus visit last
Thursday.

At the Homecoming football game
Oct. 13, the Republican organization
distributed Reagan bumper stickers
and literature supporting Warner. In
Tuesday’s election, the group also is
supporting Ray Garland, who is chal-
lenging Democrat Jim Olin for the
sixth District congressional seat.

Students will be helping local of-
ficials Tuesday at the Lexington fire-
house and city hall, where ballots will
be cast.

In September, the organization as-
sisted local Republicans with a voter

For all your Cake,

 

ington precincts. Students also man
the Republican headquarters on
Main Street between 2 p.m. and 5
p.m. daily. Duties include handling
phone calls and distributing litera-
ture.

According to Hayden, the Young
Democrats have been ‘‘a lot more ac-
tive this year than in previous
years,” but he does not believe there
is any competition between the two
political organizations, because of
the ‘‘conservative nature”’ of the stu-
dent body.

“We really don’t have to compete
because they have so few members,”’
he said.

The College Republicans have a
membership of about 250.

College Republicans require a
membership fee of four dollars per
year. In addition, the organization
raises funds by asking parents of
members to contribute.

Hayden placed the organization’s
annual budget ‘“‘somewhere between
$1,300 and $1,400.”

In February, the Washington and
Lee and Hollins College Republicans
will be co-sponsoring the College
Republican Federation of Virginia at
the Mariott Hotel in Roanoke.

 

SERVIOTAR.

 

 

 

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Fri, 10-5; Sat. 10-4
31 S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

 

Cookie, and Candy 23S. Main
needs, Lauiecine, 200
; exington Hardware
Lexington, Vingrnea LATO Call 258-2237 "lac ae
1980 Pontiac Sunbird
CRAFTS PLUS, INC. w/Sunroof, AM/FM

Stereo, AC - Excellent

Condition
463-9364 after 5pm

 

 

Washington & Lee vs. Samford

Pre-Game Party
with Blue Grass Band
11:30-1:30

Saturday, Nov. 3
Upper Athletic Field

Bring Your Own Food and Beverage

Parents,

Teachers,

and Students

Welcome.

 

WELCOME
PARENTS!

the

Jefferson

e

103.N. Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450

(703) 463-9841

 
*

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1984

Frats violating noise laws lose certain rights

From Staff Reports

Lexington Police Chief L. 0. Sutton
Says a search warrant is not required
for police officers to enter fraternity
houses if a noise violation is occur-
ring.

“Tf officers can hear the noise, it’s
an offense occurring in their pre-
sence,”’ he said Tuesday. ‘‘We would
be remiss if we didn’t take action.”

A Lexington city ordinance prohi-
bits the use, without a written per-
mit, of sound-amplifying equipment
or loudspeakers so the sound is audi-
ble to the public

“It’s the same thing as observing a
shoplifting, or observing a fight or
hearing someone scream for help,”
Sutton continued.

He said that on at least one occa-
sion a student has attempted to bar a
police officer’s entry into a fraternity
house, claiming a search warrant
was necessary.

A student taking such an action
‘could be charged with interference
with a police officer in the perfor-
mance of his duties,’’ he said.

The police chief said a stereo could
be confiscated from a fraternity
house at which a noise violation is oc-

Blacks express support
for fired administrator

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
News Editor

 

Calling last week’s firing of Minori-
ty Affairs Director John L. White un-
justified, black students interviewed
this week said the University will be
“hard-pressed” to find an effective
replacement.

“T though he was very effective as
an administrator,’ Bryan Johnson,
president of the Student Association
for Black Unity, said Tuesday. ‘‘It
takes somebody that’s going to be a
go-getter.”’

SABU member Wesley Payne
agreed that White’s job required him
to ‘‘stand up for what he believed in.”

‘He is not one to just sit around and
ride the cart just because someone
said so,”’ Payne said.

White said University President
John D. Wilson told him last week
that he was being fired at the end of
the school year for, among other
things, being an ineffective recruiter
of minority students.

“If he wasn’t a good recruiter, I
wouldn’t be here,’’ Payne said. He
said he doesn’t know of any black
students who don’t support White.

White would not confirm that he is
planning a lawsuit to retain his job,
saying his lawyer has hold him ‘‘not
to make comments that have a bear-
ing on a pending case.”’

White said that there has been a
drop in black enrollment from seven
last year to three this year, but that
the numbers don’t tell the whole

story.

“In my estimation last year was a
tough year,”’ he said. ‘‘No school in
the state got anywhere near their
projections’ for minority enroll-
ment.

Washington and Lee’s minority re-
cruitment strategy has been based on
a mailing campaign, which can
cause fluctuations from year to year,
White said.

“If you’re going to run an institu-
tion, you’ve got to know that because
the numbers don’t add up one year,
you don’t go out and fire someone.”

White, who graduated from W&L in
1974 and was hired for his present
position in 1979, acknowledged that
his studies as a law student have cut
into his administrative work, par-
ticularly with regard to recruiting.

“Every activity — save recruiting
— that I did before enrolling in law
school I did after,’’ White said. ‘‘But
in my heart of hearts, I can’t see
attributing last year’s numbers sole-
ly tome.”

As for improving minority recruit-
ment in the future, White said it takes
more than just a black recruiter.

“It’s a lack of overall continuity,”
he said. ‘You have to have a pro-
gram that goes to certain places and
works certain areas on a repetitive
basis.”

That happens for white students,
but not for blacks, White said.

“We've failed to establish any kind
of rapport with the black community
that would provide us with a feeder
institution,’’ he said.

an ao

One dollar off all album or tape

purchases with this coupon.
|

Ronald

Nelson Street

Leadership you can trust.
A vision for the future.

plan for tomorrow.
WKWKKK KKK KH

George Bush
John Warner

Ray Garland

Lexington, Virginia

 

EXP. 11-8-84

te tte tk a tet i tee a te tete te tek kas

Bringing America back

curring because the equipment
would be the ‘‘fruits or instrumenta-
lities of a violation.”

A stereo from Pi Kappa Phi was
impounded at 1:44 a.m. Oct. 21 ‘“‘to
establish peace and quiet,’’ police
said.

“It’s evidence, technically, just as
confiscating beer preserves evidence
of drinking in public,’’ Sutton said.

The police chief said last weekend
was ‘“‘unusally busy,” although no
summonses were issued to frater-
nities.

“We did have to go around and
close a couple of parties,” said Sut-
ton, who worked until after 3 a.m.
Sunday because of some unusual
incidents. ‘They didn’t have the time
to write the warnings or give sum-
monses.”’

He said the lack of summonses last
weekend did not indicate an improve-
ment in fraternity behavior.

“T don’t know what’s going on,”’ he

Students

By ANDY HOPPES
Staff Reporter

Most Washington and Lee students
still prefer to live off campus, but
would prefer to see some kind of
coeducational dormitory arrange-
ment at Washington and Lee in the
future, according to the housing
survey the University conducted dur-
ing matriculation.

Of the 923 undergraduate upper-
classmen surveyed, 631 said they
would prefer to live off campus. Of
students who now live off campus,
107 said they would prefer to live on
campus, and 16 more students said
they might prefer to live on campus,
depending upon the living arrange-
ments.

Regarding the question of whether
the dormitories should be coed or
single sex, 39 percent of the students
said dormitories should be coed with
men and women on the same floors,
37 percent said that the dorms should
be coed with men and women on dif-
ferent floors and 16 percent believed

 

said. ‘‘There seems to be a lack of
consideration by a few of the frater-
nity houses and their guests.’’

Sutton said one indication of that is
an increased amount of litter on city
streets.

He also said that three signs valued
at more than $400, including one val-
ued at $350, were stolen from the Lex-
ington Visitor Center Saturday night.

There is ‘‘no indication one way or
the other” as to whether fraternities
were involved in the action, Sutton
said. “‘I would not imply who took it
or where,”’ he added.

“If anybody’s playing souvenirs or
silly games, that’s getting pretty
serious,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s of no value to
anyone else.”’

At Monday’s Executive Committee
meeting, sophomore representative
Shayam Menon said relations be-
tween police and fraternities are
deteriorating.

“They’re having problems they

didn’t have last year,” he said.
a very volatile situation.”

Sutton said he plans to address
fraternity presidents at Tuesday’s
Interfraternity Council meeting.

In other weekend activity, the
police chief said there was an in-
stance of a fraternity having difficul-
ty getting uninvited guests to leave
the property. Police responded to the
scene after the people claimed to
have a gun in their car.

“Always call us,’’ Sutton said.
“Whenever we arrive there, we will,
with the assistance of the fraternity
president, inform the people they are
trespassing and must leave.”’

“If they come back, refuse to leave
or set foot on the property again, we
will arrest them because that’s an of-
fense occurring in our presence,” he
added.

Sutton said the police department’s
average response time is less than
three minutes.

“It’s

“There may be sporadic instances
where officers are tied up and the re
sponse time may vary,” he said. ‘ ‘al
calls are prioritized if we are busy.”’

Also this weekend, Lexington re}
sident Johnson O’Neal Fitch was|
charged with two counts of assault-|
ing a police officer following an inci-|
dent that began at the Washington}
and Lee parking lot near Red Square. |

According to the police report, of-
ficer Edward A. Funkhouser was on|
foot patrol at 12:30 a.m. Sunday when |
he saw a man crouching beside a car |
in the lot. The report said the subject
ran from the scene and was appre-
hended on Main Street outside the |
Grand Piano and Furniture Co.

The police report said that Funk- |
houser “received an injury in the |
groin as a result of Fitch kicking |
him,” and that officer David C. :
Grimes “received an abrasion on his :
left leg as a result of Fitch — |
him.”

favor coeducational dorms

that all dormitories should be single
sex.

A third question dealing with the
type of on-campus housing preferred
by students provoked no answer from
45 percent of the respondents. Thirty-
four percent of those who expressed a
preference for some type of housing
favored apartments with kitchens,
seven percent favored apartments,
six percent favored suites and five
percent favored traditional single oc-
cupancy rooms.

The survey also showed that 28 per-
cent of the upperclass under-
graduates now live in fraternity
houses and another 28 percent live in
rented houses. An additional 24 per-
cent of the upperclassmen live in
apartments and the remaining 16
percent live in university housing.

Seventy-one percent of the students
pay $100 or less a month in rent, 24
percent pay between $100 and $150 a
month and the remaining five per-
cent pay more than $150 a month.

Frank A. Parsons, assistant to the
University president, said that this

Residential Accomodations
subcommittee of the coeducation
committee would consider the num-
ber of students dissatisfied with their
off-campus housing in drawing up
plans for the new dormitory due in
September 1987.

“It’s very difficult to estimate how
many of that 107 (students living off
campus who would prefer to live on)
would actually live on campus if they
had the opportunity. All you can do is
take this into account. There’s no
magic formula as to how many beds
you'll need,” Parsons said.

“Factoring all those things togeth-
er, you get something in the neigh-
borhood of 240 beds,’’ said Parsons.

He said the figure of a 240-bed dor-
mitory was a preliminary estimate
that could still vary.

Parsons said he was not surprised
by the high percentage of students
who said they would like to remain
living off campus.

“Students do like the flexibility
that they presently have. Freshmen
quickly see a very interesting, ex-

citing four years ahead of them. Part
of that excitement is that they do
have a variety of ways to live,” Par-
sons remarked.

Executive Committee President
Cole Dawson said he favored dormi- -
tories arranged like those at thé~
University of Virginia, where the-
dormitories are coed with men and °
women on alternating floors.

“It’s the best way to integrate the ’
girls with the guys,’’ said Dawson.
“If you set them off in separate
dorms, you’ve segregated them. It*
works real well socially at U.Va.” -
Dawson added.

While believing that the option of
living off campus should remain open
to all upperclassmen, Dawson said -
he could see benefits in developing a ‘
more residential college by providing ‘
those students who want on-campus °
housing with that option.

“The more that a college is resi- ‘
dential, the more people participate. '
When you've got people spread out
over the countryside, it’s hard to par-
ticipate.’”’

It’s the early Mink that catches the bus —

By STEVE POCKRASS
Staff Reporter

 

If your Thanksgiving or Christmas
vacation plans necessitate travel by
train or plane, you had best buy your
tickets soon, warn area travel

_ agents.

“Many flights are full (for Thanks-

17 S. Main St.

 

Welcome Parents

Come By And Get All
Your Weekend Needs

Fragrances ‘Russell Stover Candy Film

giving),’’ said Ginny Trudell, direc-
tor of group sales for Travel Unlim-
ited Inc., 21 W. Washington St. “‘It’s
even getting a little close for
Christmas.”’

According to Trudell, Piedmont
Airlines is offering a new college
fare, and some ‘“‘super saver’’ rates
still are available from various air-
planes. The Piedmont rates are not

available on Fridays or after 1 p.m.
on Sundays, and ‘“‘super saver”’ tick-
ets must be reserved seven to 14 days
in advance.

“Not a whole lot’ of flights are re-
maining, according to Donna Potter,
travel consultant for Herring Travel
Services Inc., 41S. Main St.

For those interested in rail travel,
Potter explained that the train sta-

 

(703) 463-2323

 

W&L Bookstore

will be open
Saturday,Nov. 3, for
Parents Weekend

 

 

 

 

SI

i —

There is no such thing as a Pizza 7
that is Delivered for Free!

AIR-WHAMO

Delivering for

Spanky’s

463-3338

University

SNACK BAR

Welcome Parents & Friends

 

Aaytte
Year for

era

AE Pe

   
 

Tied ie ones Rings

Nov.
Date

1-3 10am-3pm

Time

© 1984 ArtCarved Class Rings

 

UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE ‘
Place
Deposit Required. MasterCard or Visa Accepted

tion nearest Lexington is situated in
Staunton, and the second closest sta-
tion is in Charlottesville. Trains
leave only on Wednesdays, Fridays
and Sundays, and rates for long dis:
tance rides are comparable to some
airplane rates.

Bob Wood, Greyhound Bus Lines’
agent in Lexington, said there ,is
always availability on bus routes.
Tickets may be purchased at the
time of departure, and the bus line
accepts major credit cards.

The Greyhound station is situatéd
at 631 Waddell, off U.S. 11 South, and
may be reached by phone from 4 a.m.
to 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. to 8 p.m.
463-2424.

a}
,
<TR .
4
,
$
\

 

Now mat it’s time to spurchatt
your college ring, think about
choosing the finest —a 14K gold
college ring from Art¢ avid
Designed and handcrafted tor
lasting value, an ArtCarved igk |
gold college ring is now more
affordable than ever. For a lim-
ited time only, you can save $25

on the style of your choice. Stop v

by to see the entire ArtCarved

collection and custom options.

Remember, it's your year

tor gold!

ARIARVED |.
LASS RINGS

 

 

 

Herring Travel

Announces

50% Discount

Al
rt

For Students
On Piedmont

Special Weekend Hours:
Friday 8:00 am - 6:00pm
Saturday 9:30 am - 1:00pm

WHKKKKK KKK

— fA CLE r =

Vote Republican November 6th. | | q...::1,
Hamburgers & Fries

Wafel Steak & Fries
Hot Dogs

Call Now for details | *.
463-2197

41 South Main St. Across from Arby? s

OOO Oe er er OOP o->-> >of! ~*

The choice couldn't be clearer.

Paid for by the Washington and Lee College Republicans.

ride ewer nw kw ww

 

 

 

 
 

   

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Lexington Police Department Sergeant Richard S. Rice administers the
Alco-Sensor test to student body President Cole Dawson Tuesday night.

Smashing success?

Awareness through oblivion
is alcohol program’s goal

From Staff Reports

“Is my slurred speech?”’

“No, Cole. That’s: ‘Is my speech
slurred?’ ”’

“You know what I mean. I’m going
to remember this in the morning!”’

“Cole, do you know who I am?”’

“Sure, I know who you are. . . .And
that’s Shayam Menon, Alcohol
Awareness Week.”’

Even though as the evening pro-
gressed he took to calling it ‘‘Alcohol
Impression Week,” Student Body
President Cole Dawson had identi-
fied the chairman of an effort to im-
press upon students the dangers of
drinking and driving.

He also had just registered .20 on
the Lexington Police Department’s
Alco-Sensor.

A reading of .10 represents legal in-
toxication in the state of Virginia.

“‘He’s probably legally dead,” ad-
ministration Professor Roger A.
Dean said as Dawson blew into the
device.

“*1.6!” the students and professors
participating in the Tuesday night

Alcohol Awareness event exclaimed

d ’ _as Lexington Police Sergeant Rich-

*’ard S. Rice took Dawson’s blood
*. ‘alcohol level.

‘Don’t get excited — it’s still
climbing,’’ Rice said.

The final result was .20.

“That doesn’t make any sense,”
Dawson said.

He’d only just finished downing a

,. dozen gin and tonics, a bourbon and a
* " {scotch and water.

“This is the first time I’ve had a
_ buzz since July,” he said. “OK — I
"’*ean’t drive,” he said, flinging his car

"2" ‘keys across the Executive Commit-

, tee’s circular table.
_* Transposing a few figures, he loud-
‘’“ly told some members of the group

~~” that he just “blew a 2.0.”

Senior class President Darby

. Leary to talk
here Thursday

- Dr. Timothy Leary, who rose to

prominence in the 1960s because of
’ his controversial drug experiments
» at Harvard, will speak at Washington
and Lee next Thursday, Nov. 8.

His lecture, ‘‘Flashbacks with Tim-
othy Leary,’ will be at 8 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

Leary was once branded ‘‘the most
dangerous man alive’ as he rose to
national prominence in the 1960s.
When he ran for governor of Califor-
nia, the Beatles dedicated a song to
him: ‘‘Come Together.”

After receiving his Ph.D. in clinical
psychology from the University of
California at Berkeley, Leary be-
came director of psychology re-
search at the Kaiser Foundation in
Oakland, Calif. During that time, he
became a founder and leader of the
“humanistic”? psychology move-
ment, revolutionizing traditional ap-
proaches to psychotherapy.

   

Coors 6pk.

P epsi 2 liter

  

Choice.

8-10 daily

Seen,

Fresh made Pizzas daily

Brower drove him home.

“Tt made me more aware of the ef-
fect of social drinking on your be-
havior,’ Dawson said the next day.
“I’ve never known before how many
drinks it took for you to get to .10.””

‘“‘Now I do, and that’s interesting,”
said Dawson, who consented to press
coverage of his participation in the
Alcohol Awareness event.

“It sounds sort of farcical or
hypocritical for W&L students to be a
part of Alcohol Awareness by getting
intoxicated and then blowing into the
breath tester,” said sophomore EC
representative Andrew Caruthers,
who blew a .10 after eight beers.

“This wasn’t so much to promote
awareness of alcohol but to promote
awareness of what your limits are,”

he said.
Menon, the other sophomore EC re-

presentative, said the eight students
and four professors and staff who
participated will help people realize
that strictly social drinking can still
result in a dangerous blood alcohol
level.

“T didn’t want them to get smash-
ed,”’ he said. ‘‘I wanted them to drink
like it was a normal cocktail party.
After they started talking, they for-
got that it was a test.”

“This was just how a regular party
is,” he continued. ‘“‘No guys drink
three or four beers and then stop.
They’re going to go to the max when
they get blitzed on a Saturday night.
The idea was to show the effect that
had on this group of people.”

Tomorrow from 6 to 7 p.m., the
Alco-Sensor will be in the Cockpit for
a special Alcohol Awareness event,
and Tuesday from 8 to 9:30 p.m. in
the Student Center Conference
Room, representatives of the state
police will discuss drunken driving
arrest procedures and perform a
simulated arrest.

aa ee es

 
  
 
     
       
        
     
       
       
     
    
   
       
     
   
     
     
 

  

SAFEWAY

Gulf Pride Motor Oil sows
Whole Beef Tenderloin ¢s1. avg.

Complete in store Deli & Bakery in-
cluding Party Trays & Birthday Cakes

Safeway reminds you to Vote
and Preserve your Freedom of

Rockbridge County’s
Component Stereo Center

for your home and car

Featuring: JVC, Boston Acoustic,
Design Acoustic, Panasonic,
Sony, Maxell, Audio Technica

A Division of Value Mart

By NELSON PATTERSON
Staff Reporter

SWEET BRIAR—Congresswoman
and self-proclaimed feminist Bella
Abzug told a crowd of 450 at Sweet
Briar College Monday night that
“‘women’s rights is now at an historic
point in its history with Geraldine
Ferraro in the number two position
on the Democratic ticket.”

As the keynote speaker in the first
“Women in Politics’ workshop at
Sweet Briar, Abzug also predicted
that the ‘‘gender gap’’ first identified
in exit polls from the 1980 election
“will be more intense this year” and
that nine million more women than
men will vote in the elections next
Tuesday. She said that the big issues
facing women voters this fall are eco-
nomic justice, war and peace, and
social equality under the law.

While speaking of the advantages
of electing the Mondale-Ferraro tic-
ket, Abzug reserved her harshest
words for the Reagan administra-
tion’s record of insensitivity to
women’s issues.

“The women’s movement has fac-
ed a setback in that Reagan is anti-
woman,”’ Abzug said, ‘‘but I hesitate
to use the term ‘setback’ since there
are really no setbacks, only battles in
the long run of events. The problem is
that power is still in the male power
structure with its vested military and
religious interests.”

“Men think that Reagan is more

DUI cost

By JOHN WINTERS
Staff Reporter

 

 

With this week designated as
Alcohol Awareness Week, the whole
question of drinking and driving has
once again come up. What started out
as a great party could very easily end
up costing you a great deal of money
as well as your life.

According to Lexington Police
Chief L.O. Sutton, the police go
through a set process in dealing with
drunk drivers. The first step obvious-
ly is the initial observation of the car.
The police look for excessive speeds,
either too slow or too fast, and weav-

ing.

The next step is to stop the car in an
area that is safe. After the car has
been stopped, the police officer will
ask the driver for his title, registra-
tion and driver’s license. During this .
time the officer will be watching the
driver for signs of excessive alcohol
in the system: slurred speech, smell
of beer or bloodshot eyes.

The officer will ask the driver to

$2.39
84¢ qt.
$3.29 Ib.
$1.19

    

463-3146

   
  
 
    

macho than Mondale. Phooey. His is
a false machoism,”’ she continued.
“It takes strength to negotiate with
someone with whom you disagree. It
takes strength to walk not always
with your shoulders out but with a
caring heart and a conscience. I
think that ultimately women are a lot
stronger.”’

Abzug hailed Mondale’s choice of
Ferraro as his running mate but de-
cried the ‘‘double standard the press
has held her up to.”

“Everything since Noah’s Ark has
been done in pairs except govern-
ment. Why? Women are no longer
special interests. We’re 54 percent of
the vote.”’ she said

“But Ronaia Reagan still treats
women as special interests. True, he
has appointed a woman to the Su-
preme Court. True, he has several
women Cabinet members. But he is
the first in the most recent seven
presidencies to oppose the ERA. He
is a leading opponent of the Supreme
Court’s affirmation of a woman’s
right to reproductive freedom. His
budget cuts have fallen largely on
women and children.”’

The crowd chuckled several times
as Abzug told her personal history.
Noting that her trademark has been
her bizarre hats, Abzug said she
began wearing a hat after she was
mistaken by clients as a secretary
for a legal firm in which she was a
partner. ‘I was told that professional
women wore hats and gloves and

The Ring-tum Phi, November I, 1984, Page 7

Abzug blasts Reagan record

were then recognized as professional
women. So I began to wear hats and
gloves. And I began to like hats.
When I went to Washington, I got the
idea that they wanted me to take it
off, so I decided to keep it on,’’ she
said.

Speaking of her education, Abzug
said that she “had the idea some-
where that if I became a lawyer I
could correct everything. So after I
graduated from Hunter College, I
wrote to Harvard and they wrote
back that they didn’t accept women.
I was outraged and I have a fine
sense of outrage. Since there was no
women’s movement, I turned to my
mother. She said, ‘Go to Columbia.
It’s closer.’ So I went there.

“I got a scholarship and I took the
subway to Queens from the Bronx.
The subway cost five cents. That’s
how I became an advocate of low-
cost public transportation.”’

Abzug sees hope for the future of
the women’s movement. “‘It began
130 years ago with the woman’s suff-
rage movement,” she said. ‘‘It took
us 75 years to get the vote. Since 1920,
women have argued that they could
bring a new social conscience to
America. But we did not understand
the need for an electoral base and so
we never developed one.”’

Abzug said that in the 1960s,
though, the Vietnam war activiated
women anew. ‘‘We believed that
there was something worth living for,

not something worth dying for. What
is the nature of a government that
could get us into such a war? So we
saw the beginning of a new women’s
movement. And this movement led to
the formation of the electoral gender

gap.”

Though the subject of her talk was
the ‘‘gender gap,’ Abzug only touch-
ed on it throughout her 70-minute
speech. Defining the gender gap as a
“difference in political attitudes and
behavior of men and women,”’ Abzug
stressed the importance of the e-
merging economic role women play
in the job market. ‘‘The gender gap is
a battle over the changes in our
lifestyle, over the need for change in
public policy and legislation.”

The former congresswoman from
Manhattan stated that women who
support Reagan are under ‘‘a form of
delusion and escapism that makes
people feel good.”’ She pinned the
recovery in the economy not to Ron-
ald Reagan but to the ‘‘oil glut’ now
on the market. She decried Reagan’s
opposition to the nuclear freeze when
a majority of Americans of both
sexes favor one.

“You know, they christened a new
aircraft carrier this past weekend.
The Teddy Roosevelt. He was known
for carrying a big stick. Well, today,
women no longer are carrying their
lipstick. We are carrying the big
stick of votes,’ the feisty former
legislator noted.

can mount as high as $500

perform some of the various tests
that we all hear so much about:
touching one’s nose, reciting the
alphabet, picking up coins and the
like. After watching the suspect’s ac-
tions, the police then determine
whether the driver is drunk. If the of-
ficer determines from the various
tests that the person is drunk, he will
then ask him to submit to a prelimi-
nary breath test.

Sutton said the individual is not re-
quired to take this preliminary test,
and his refusal cannot be used
against him in court. If the person
refuses to take this preliminary test,
the police officer will then arrest the
individual for drunken driving and
read him the rules regarding drunk
driving in Virginia.

The suspect is then read the
“complied consent law,” which in-
forms the arrested individual that he

the police station. If the individual
refuses to take either test, the police
will then also charge him with refus-
ing to take a test — which may lead to
having his license revoked.

After taking either the blood or
breath test and found to be above the
legal limit (.1), the driver is taken
before a magistrate who will either
set bail or release the individual to
someone who comes to get him.

If the person cannot make bail, he
is kept in jail until the sheriff deter-
mines he is sufficiently sober to
drive. A trial date also is set for the
individual.

According to General District
Court Judge Joseph E. Hess, if you
are found guilty, the fine is $200 plus
$20 court costs (if you took a blood
test, the court costs are $45).

Added to this is the fact that your
license also is revoked for six

must take either a blood test at the* months. On first offenses, according

done while you wait! !

HP

  
 

|

onnections U

nearest hospital or a breath test at to Hess, this part of the sentence

nlimited

Deavers Alley

203 North Main St., Lexington
463-5119/463-1100

Open 7:00 AM - 12:00 Midnight Seven Days A Week

 

We’ll type all your papers or resumes!
Get your papers typed professionally any time you need by just calling us
ahead of time or stop by and wait. The choice is up to you! Copies of anything

usually is suspended if the person is
willing to take the Virginia Alcohol
Safety Action Program (VASAP).
The class costs $250.

VASAP was, until this year, a two-
hour, once-a-week, program for 12
weeks. The first four weeks were
devoted to defensive driving and the
remaining eight to alcohol and its ef-
fects.

At present, VASAP has been cut to
eight weeks devoted strictly to
alcohol awareness. According to
some Washington and Lee students
currently enrolled in the program,
each session usually begins with a
movie dealing with drinking, alcohol,
drug abuse or a similar subject.

According to Sutton, there have
been approximately 200 DUI arrests
so far this year. Hess added that be-
tween 25 and 30 percent of those ar-
rests involved students. Of those, the
majority involved women from the
various colleges.

    
   
  
   
 
  
 

 

power?

 

below.

GP EE I ee nee SE SED Ge nt SR SD ee Ce OE ee Oe SE Se ee ee ee

Money-saving
Student Coupon

  
  

tite
p
4 on epeaied

On the job market: Careers that are hot, skills that
when you enter the work force.

On today's news- and policy-makers: Who to watch. . . who stands where
. . .who holds the reins on red-letter issues.
On the economy: Where is it headed? What does it mean to your buying

U.S.News & World Report presents

The Inside Scoop

iL cay

U.S. News & World Report takes you behind the scene. Straight to the
source with on-target analyses of what it means to you.
Subscribe to U.S.News at half-price. Just fill out and send in the coupon

_} YES, send me 25 weeks of U.S.News & World Report for only
$9.88. I'll save 50% off the regular subscription rate and 77% off the
cover price. [_) Payment enclosed [_] Bill me

  

= Bi
sell. What to expect

 

 

   

ae Ge Gan Gus Ge ay

Less than

mie

elem sied.4

 

 

USNEWS

  

Mail coupon to:

U.S.News & World Report
2400 N St., N.W. Room 416
Washington, D.C. 20037

Listen for the News Blimp on WLUR. Brought to you by U.S.News & World Report

be a SS SS SS SR ND SGD DD SE se Se SD es memes ems

 

Name , hic

School Name

als |p | 1 Seabees etn ve Seedy Apt.

TO Sie oS se he

Suge ke Sk ALN A A AN ON SC A A ST I mT
SPORTS

TV-eye view
is necessary

 

 

 

_...Once in two weeks is perhaps able to

be overlooked, but when it happens twice

TIME — the fact that the same team benefitted
OUT from these mistakes is interesting as well
**** — some discussion is warranted. The

: topic? Well, seeing as the Longhorns were

By Mike on the receiving end of two bad (Read:
Stachura missed) calls in a couple of football games
that mattered and in a couple of situations

that for all intents and purposes decided the games’ respective outcomes,
the question of what to do with blatantly incorrect decisions by the gents who
have the whistles must come up for review.

The problem? More often than not, the television replay is more accurate
than our all-too-fallible friends in black and white. The solution? Wouldn't
touch it with a 10-foot pole.

However, now that I’m a safe distance from the dreaded solution, I'll offer
these words as a compromise. We all realize that the television replay could
be a helpful tool. At the same time, there is the old argument that when you
introduce the replay, you invite a penalty to be called on every play.

My solution calls for the use of our technology without the benefit (or, bet-
ter said, detraction) of the instant replay. What needs to be done is improve
the likelihood that the correct call will be made on every play, while at the
same time maintain the continuity of play.

Now, that I’ve lost everyone's attention span, here’s how it is to be done:
Have a seventh offical watching the action on television monitor and making
calls from what he sees on the screen. There is one important stipulation:
Our TV referee must call them as he sees them without the use of the dread-
ed — and telling — instant replay. The point is the camera’s eye view may be
a little bit better than our fieldbound arbiters. At the same time, however,
the extra whistleblower is forced to make the same split-second decisions as
his six comrades. This way, we'll be able to avoid mistakes on those crucial
calls that, in the past, have given a team a victory or tie it really didn’t
deserve... (The Texas Longhorns are 5-2, not 5-0-1...)...

....Back down on the Colonnade, those harriers just aren’t going to quit,
giving Coach Dick Miller his first undefeated season in over 30 years at
W&L. Best of luck to the Generals as they go for another ODAC title, as well
as a team berth at the Eastern Championshps in Sewanee the following
weekend... The gridders came away with win No. 2 in a row, and the defense
was Clearly the reason for the overwhelming win. This weekend may be
rated ‘R’ due to cruel and inhuman punishment to our friends from down Bir-
mingham way. At least, let us hope so...And one final word of W&L en-
couragement: The water polo Generals go to Richmond this weekend seek-
ing Southern League title No. 4. For a change they’re underdogs, but here’s a
thought that three times will be a charm against the capital city school....

....Now, on to the real world of athletics. And this is serious. The New York
City Marathon was tragic, but, and this is the point, not avoidable. It is an
impossibility to reschedule this race. The weather conditions, be they rain,
snow, wind and/or heat, are as important a part of the race as the 26 miles.
Ask Marty Liquori. He knows. The point is everybody and his brother and
sister thinks they can run a marathon, or at least think they are capable of
running a marathon. Marty said they’ve got to respect their foe (the
marathon) more and that the death last Sunday should serve as a grim
reminder of how different an animal the marathon really is. Let’s get
healthy, fine, but it’s become more like let’s go crazy and that’s not fine...

...Hey, guess what? The NBA is exciting, I hear. Opening week attendance
is up and with good reason. Michael Jordan is the best thing to hit the pro
game since...well since the game began. Jordan can turn this perennial four
months of burden into something worth more than the last 15 seconds of the
fourth overtime...(Here’s a contest: Erving and Jordan one-on-one)...

...Finally, for those of you who wanted Gerry Faust out of Notre Dame,
here’s gentle reminder: If there were more men like Faust in the college
game, no one would ever hear from (NCAA Executive Director) Walter
Byers....

   

Old Main Sandwich Shoppe

Great Subs & Sandwiches at
LOW PRICES

Corner of Henry & Main
Old Main Street Mall

463-2595 Open Mon.-Sat. 11:00-5:00

The Ring-tum Phi

 

Frank Surface bursts off tackle on his way to his first

100-yard game as a General. Surface hit the century

November 1, 1984

By Mark Mandel/W&L
mark and W&L beat Bridgewater, 31-0,

 

Harriers spotless after 14

By STEVE GREENEBAUM
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee cross
country team finished its regular
season last Saturday, and, to
nobody’s surprise, the ‘Victory Tour’
stands at 14-0.

Last Saturday, the Generals
defeated Lynchburg, Hampden-
Sydney, Eastern Mennonite,
Newport News Apprentice and

Randolph-Macon on Hampden-
Sydney’s five-mile course. With the
end-of-the-season victory, coach
Miller was handed his first
undefeated team in his 32 years at
Washington and Lee.

For the second week in a row,

Newport News Apprentice’s Martin
Nixon finished first in 26:08 and 13
seconds later came Washington and
Lee’s front runner, Frank Pittman
(27:21). Fourth place was taken by
Eastern Mennonite’s Steve Kayal
(27:23). Then came the Generals’
Ted Myers (27:38) and Eddie Goun-
dry (28:41). The other Washington
and Lee top finishers were Ron
Moody (28:12) in 13th place and
David Andrews (28:19) in 14th place.

“Qur times were slower than ex-
pected, because the heat was a major
factor,’’ Miller said. ‘‘But the heat af-
fected everyone, so it didn’t hurt us. I
was very pleased with our overall
performance as our spread was the
smallest of the season.”

“Our depth has increased through-
out the season,”’ David Andrews said.
“Freshman Bill Clark is coming up
and running well and Moody had a
great race.”

Next week, the Generals will travel
to Lynchburg College for the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionships. At 14-0, the Generals are in
a good position to win the champion-
ship; the team is confident about how
it will do in the post season.

“Lynchburg’s course is a campus
course,”’ said Pittman. “‘It has hills
that aren’t that bad, stairs, rocks and
woods.”

“We're right where we want to
be,’’ Myers said. ‘‘We should peak in
two weeks at Regionals.”’

First woman coach called ‘perfect’

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

“She is the perfect assistant. I
could not be happier,’ said head
water polo and swimming coach
Page Remillard about his graduate
assistant Laura Cox.

Although she is only an assistant,
Cox is the first female coach in the
history of the Washington and Lee
athletic department, according to
Athletic Director William McHenry.

Cox, a native of Davis, Calif.,
possesses a long and _ successful
swimming history. She began
competitive swimming when she was
eight and began playing water polo at
12. She attended the University of
California at Santa Barbara for her
freshman year and qualified for the
NCAA Division I National Champion-
ships. After her freshman year, she
transferred to Old Dominion Univer-
sity but was unable to compete dur-
ing her sophomore year because of
the NCAA rules and regulations con-
cerning transfer athletes. She did
swim for Old Dominion during her
junior and senior years, qualifying
for the Division I National Champion-

 

 

 

, ———

115 S. Main Street

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

“For your extra pieces of furniture’

463-2742

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAPPAGALLO

        

Shoes, Clothing

& Accessories Budweiser, 12-pk. $5*

|
The Shop for

 

   

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988
PPP). DP

Video Director

$919

  

Lonestar, 6-pk.

 

  

— Coupon—

3 Free Movies
when you rent a VCR or Disc
Player for 1 day or longer.

-Deposit required

[a

  

    

463-9566
Mon.-Sat. 11-5 — Closed Wednesday & Saturday

   

16 W. Washington Street

       

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

Mon.-Sun, 9-12

Natty Bo LN $553

Busch, 6-pk. 7

        
    
 

ships both years. She graduated from
ODU in 1981.

Cox was the only female on her
high school water polo team, where
she got her first serious water polo
experience. Since beginning her
water polo career in high school, Cox
remains a member of the U. S. Na-
tional water polo team, an honor
she’s held since 1977. She has earned
All-American honors eleven times
and has won the MVP award twice at
the national championships.

With her successful background in
acquatics, Cox has many respon-
sibilities within the W&L acquatics
program. She assists Coach Remill-
ard with writing workouts, estab-
lishing team objectives and goals,
coaching on deck, traveling with the
team and recruiting.

Describing Cox’s role in recruiting
prospective swimmers, Coach Rem-
illard said, ‘“‘She coordinates the re-
cruiting program to see that it is
well-ordered and _ well-timed.”’
Remillard added that she is doing a
“super job.”

He said, “Our recruiting is well
past the point that it usually is at this
time in the year and that is probably
completely due to her organization.”’

Cox is also involved in a local ac-
quatics program outside of the W&L
program. Although Remillard is the
director of the Rockbridge Acquatics
Team, Cox is the head coach. She is
solely responsible for writing the
workouts and scheduling the team’s

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

_ _ 50 years
Main Street, Lexington

463-3612

 

 

 

 

 

 

S@SAB F LMS

PRESENTS ()

WOK
Re ry
Xe
o
o
g Fadel a dat Maaee
riday, Saturday, Sunday
8pm_ show each night
duPont Auditorium
$1.50
Still the best deal in Town!

Kv
r

=

 

meets.

The graduate assistant position
provides one with the opportunity to
investigate possible careers. In addi-
tion to investigating the career of a
swimming and water polo coach, Cox
also is weighing a career in teaching
biology. She majored in biology at
ODU and obtained a masters degree
in genetics at the Universtiy of Cali-
fornia at Davis. While she is at
Washington and Lee, Cox assists Dr.
Lyman Emmons in the biology de-
partment with research in genetics
and immunology.

Her assistanceship also provides
Cox the balance between athletics
and academics that she has achieved
as an undergraduate and graduate
student. ‘‘It is important for me to
maintain a balance between athletics
( See Cox, Page 9

Page 8

Gridders
at .500
with win —

By WILLIAM KING
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee football
team evened its record at 4-4 after a
31-0 victory over Bridgewater Satur-
day in Bridgewater.

The Generals capitalized on three
big plays enroute to their secondcon- .
secutive win. W&L struggled offen-
sively throughout the first half until
sophomore John Roe blocked an Eag-
le punt late in the second quarter,
giving the Generals the ball in
Bridgewater territory. Senior tail-
back Gene Girard put the Generals
ahead with his six-yard touchdown
run with 2:28 remaining in the first
half, giving W&L a 7-0 halftime lead.

The Generals increased their lead
to 10-0 in the third quarter when .
placekicker James White booted a 37-
yard field goal. On tthe first play °
from scrimmage following the ensu- ,
ing kickoff, W&L free safety Chris
Wilson intercepted a pass by Bridge- °
water quarterback David Jones and ,
returned it 34 yards for a touchdown,
making the score 17-0 with 4:44 re- °
maining in the third quarter.

W&L clinched the victory by ad-
ding two fourth quarter touchdowns.
The first came when quarterback
Jon Thornton passed 25 yards to a
wide-open Dave Sizemore for a
touchdown. On Bridgewater’s first
offensive play following the kickoff,
W&L cornerback Kelvin Newsome
stepped in front of an Eagle receiver
and intercepted a pass thrown by
reserve quarterback Joe Delucus.. ©
Newsome returned the ball 39 yards. .
for the Generals’ final score of the.
day, giving W&L a 31-0 victory.

The General defense earned its
first shutout of the season against’
Bridgewater. The defense forced five.
Eagle turnovers, four interceptions
and one fumble recovery. Wilson now.
has four interceptions for the season. -

The W&L offense had trouble::’
punching the ball into the end zone. ,
against Bridgewater. The Generals °
were actually outgained by. the Eag-
les, 272 yards to 209. Thornton comp- *
leted 4 of 11 passes for 57 yards and
one touchdown and two intercep;-:’
tions. Fullback Frank Surface rush:-",
ed for 107 yards on 16 carries, giving
him his first 100-yard game of thé-:'
season. Kot

Head coach Gary Fallon said hé-:
was not “comfortable with a 7-0::
halftime lead.” 1s

“I knew that Bridgewater had thé~-
capacity to comeback, and I was con-*-
cerned about both our offense and:
our defense. I guess I didn’t have to:
worry about the defense because it*-
played extremely well. The turn-*«
overs were caused from our pres-”
sure,’’ Fallon said. Be

Soccer downed twice,
now out of ODAC race

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee Varsity
Soccer team was defeated twice over
the week, losing 7-0 to UNC-Greens-
boro and 1 in overtime to Roanoke.
The Roanoke loss knocks the Gene-
rals out of contention for an Old
Dominion Athletic Conference title
this year.

Coach Piranian said that the Roa-
noke game was an “evenly played
match.”’ Piranian stated that a poor
officiating call was at least partly
responsible for the loss. ‘‘The lines-

22 2 “= 2a <> <a

Air-Whamo

delivering for

eae

Spanky’s

NEEDS DRIVERS

Call 463-3383
(between 6pm -12am)
or
463-6874

RN CN A NES A SN I

(SS GREER SEM eS <a ae

men raised his flag for offsides, the
referee didn’t call it, and Roanoke
scored.’’ But Piranian also said that
“‘we were at fault for letting it go into
overtime.”’

Piranian named goalie Jay Werner
as the outstanding player of the
game. Werner made 14 saves in the
second half of play.

Discusssing the reasons for the
UNC-Greensboro defeat, Coach Pira-
nian said, ‘‘We had to have a very
strong performance, and that wasn’t
the case, the team had too much re-
spect for our opponents.”’ Piranian
also said the team’s effort was hurt
by the absence of key players. ‘“‘We
didn’t have a strong game against
them — ever since Mark Sullivan’s
been injured, leadership's been lack-
ing on the field.”

In addition to Sullivan, Piranian
said that the absence of Chip Landis
and Tom Myers also damaged the
team’s effort. Piranian cited sopho-
more Tommy Pee as the outstanding
player of the game.

The defeats drop the team’s record
to 5-7 ahd their ODAC record to 3-2.
Piranian said ‘‘at best we can have a
.500 season.”’

Piranian is proud of the way the
team has come back from previous.
defeats. This Saturday the team .
plays Radford, and the last game of.
the season will be against VMI on ~
Nov. 6, and Coach Piranian said; .
“The. team that’s more fired up will
win the game.” es

 

_y ED D> OED ED SE OED SED () ED

OW fa

 

165

Pee eanrinen

 

 

barf fora’ hite~ Florist
Welcome Parents

South Main Street

 
     
  
 

 

463-9152
 

Cox

Continued from Page 8
ahd academics. I’ve always wa
to be well-rounded,” she said
added that she believes it is a great
opportunity to receive training in
coaching and research. She said that
her current position allows her to
“get everything that I want all at
once.”’

Cox does not believe that she is
working in an awkward situation as
the first female coach at an all-male
institution. If anything, she believes
her past experience helps her in her
current position. She is accustomed
to working in a predominately male
environment. In addition to being the
only female on her high school’s
water polo team, Cox has worked for
the last eight summers as a lifeguard
at Huntington State Beach in Califor-
nia.

She adds that the players do not
pay attention to whether she is a
male or female, but that they accept

 

nted

Cox

and respect her coaching because
they are
swimmer and a water polo player

5

aware oO! her succe@Ss aS a

When Washington and Lee begins
admitting women next fall, the ath
letic department plans to establish
of the first sports
McHenry said he

swimming as one
offered to women
is in the process of requesting a posi-
tion that would provide an assistant
to Coach Remillard, who will direct
the women’s programs in
addition to th

If the is approved, Cox
said she will apply for the job but that

acquatic

emens

position

she currently is not certain if she
would accept the job if it were offered
to her. One of the purposes of the

graduate assistanceship is to provide
with experience so that he
nay make intelligent career deci-

a person

sions

Right now, though, she'll just hold
off on any career decisions until she’s
In the meantime, she'll keep
her place in the W&L sports trivia
records as the University’s first
female coach

ready

 

Board

Continued from Page 1

He added that in response to the co-
education decision, some alumni
“thave told us that they’re not going
to give this year, but that they cer-
tainly don’t want to be divorced from
the University in future years.”

“There are some people who want
to make a gesture of that sort,’’ Wil-
son said. ‘‘I think most people now
are saying, ‘Let’s put this behind us.’
Anything else would be very fruitless
at this point.”’

Dawson said the trustees indicated
to him that some alumni who initially
opposed the decision become suppor-
tive of it when the reasoning is ex-
plained to them.

“While they may not agree with the
decision, they’re ready to get behind
itand make the most of it,”’ he said.

At Saturday’s meeting, Assistant
Dean of the College Pamela H. Simp-
son, chairman of the Committee on
Coeducation, reported her group’s
progress in its first few weeks of

 

operation.

She outlined the function of the six
subcommittees, including one on
fraternities chaired by junior Lee
Hollis

‘“There’s a need for communica-
tion so the fraternities aren’t seeing
coeducation itself as something
that’s threatening to them,’’ she said
yesterday. ‘‘We want there to be dia-
logue, so we can help them and they
can help us.”’

She said the subcommittees are at-
tempting to involve a large number
of members of the University
community ‘‘so that more people will
havea stake in making this work.”

Author Tom Wolfe of New York
City, a 1951 graduate, was sworn in
as a trustee Saturday morning.

Wilson said that although he has
read most of Wolfe’s work, the only
time he had met the author before
last weekend was ata public speech.

‘‘He’s an exceedingly bright, per-
ceptive student of modern culture,
with a vivid, imaginative capacity
for sharing those perceptions
through the written word,’ Wilson
said

Frank’s Pizza

offers

FREE DELIVERY

463-7575

East Nelson St.

Open till 1 am weekdays; till 2am weekends.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1984, Page 9

 

New albums for ' open- -eared listeners

 

By DAVE DONAHUE
Music Critic

 

Some recording artists are so ‘“‘un
marketable’ as to never bridge the
gap between cult status and wide-
spread popular acceptance XTC and
Tom Verlain have been putting out
albums for about six years, and so
far, neither has had “hits.’’ New
albums from both maintain high ar-
tistic standards; not too surprisingly,
neither of their efforts is likely to
break American A.O.R. playlists

XTC’s “The Big Express’’ has a
harder edge than their previous ef-
fort, ‘‘Mummer.”’ Their sound incor
porates dissonance, musically and
lyrically. ‘Wake Up,”’ the first song,
jars and soothes at the same time. A
typical XTC song emphasizes the off
beat, with the chorus cramming

words in to t m the
musical feel often reflects and em

phasizes the lyric

 

The sonically suppressed singing
on the anti-tyrannica Reign of
Blows” serves to further emphasize
that song’s impact. Their subject
material is often grim, concerned
with the drudgery and hypocrisy of
everday life. ‘‘The Ever Story of

   

what its tithk

paints a

Says

meian

Smalltown”’ is
“This World Over
choly picture of a post-Armageddon
world

Musically complex,
tense and very British, XTC has had
little success on this side of the Atlan
tic. Nevertheless, they are inspired
musicians: Andy Partridge’s singing
is exceptionally good, and the mix of
organic and electronic
smoothly superb. This band knows
what it is doing, and why: questions

lyrically in

sounds are

of commercialization become irrele-
vant as the joy of recording takes
precedence

Tom Verlaine’s ‘‘Cover’’ is a more
personal view of life. Noted as the
guitarist and driving force behind the
short-lived ‘‘Television,’’Verlaine has
put out four albums since that band’s
breakup. He is a phenomenal electric
guitarist, and the tones and textures
he squeezes from his instrument
make his albums primers on modern
guitar

“Cover’’ uses what sound like
guitar synthesizers to create a tex-
tural wash behind the idiosyncratic,
quirky funk base. His guitar sets up
the melody, and then he counters it
like a dangerous undercurrent.
“Swim,” a beautiful song of confess-
ed love, has a constant, ominous bass
line providing a counterpoint to the
surface calm.

Tension is always present in a Ver
laine song, both in the lyrics and in
his voice, “‘A fragile whine’’ might
best describe his singing, yet he can
use its limits well; listen to the funny
draw] he affects in ‘‘Lindi-Lu.” This
man’s nightmares coincide with his
dreams, and often “simple’’ love
songs sound like exercises in per
sonal exorcism. ‘‘Cover’’ is for liste
ing to at high volume in a darkened
room, just before bedtime. ‘‘The Big

Express”’ is an album for throwing a
cog intoa bright, sunny afterno

Tom Verlaine and XTC do not con
cern themselves with popi
this music: their concerns a: h

fully exploring the musical territory
they’ve discovered. Admittedly not
for everyone, they are highly 1

ing for those listeners ‘‘open-eares
and open-minded enough to
chance.

‘Body Double’: more than just porn

 

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

Brian dePalma’s latest film ‘‘Body
Double’”’ is a film worth seeing. There
are, as in all of dePalma’s movies,
scenes that might be considered
overly violent or sexually explicit,
but I felt in this movie, dealing with
the world of pornography, passion
and murder, these scenes worked
well. Certainly the violence of ‘‘Body
Double’’ doesn’t even come close to
that of dePalma’s last picture ‘‘Scar-
face.’’ What really makes this movie,
though, is something far removed
from the sex and violence: the con-
stant use of plot twists designed to
keep the audience off-guard.

As in all dePalma films, the direc-
tor attempts to mimic his idol, Alfred
Hitchcock, by moving his cam-
era in unorthodox ways. He has not
quite filled the shoes of the master in
this regard (who could?), but
dePalma still provides a visually
stunning movie, loaded with color,

motion and subliminal messages

The story line appears simple: a
voyueristic, out-of-work actor wit
nesses a murder, and then stumbles
onto the solution to the killing. What
happens along the way is a mix of
turns-of-events and occasional lapses
into the subconscious, which lead us
down dead end after dead end until
the mystery falls together at the con-
clusion of the movie

The few scenes I felt could have
been cut down involved the hero’s
one and only meeting with the victim
of the piece, the murder scene itself
(the woman is skewered with a pow-
er drill) and a scene in which the hero
is taking an acting course. These all
seemed almost agonizingly long and
somewhat out of place in a picture
with such a sense of urgency about it.
Still, their lengths were designed to

create effects, the first, a de:
never end, and the final tw to
create tension.

Taken as a whole ‘‘Body Double’ is
a fine film. There are those, I’m
sure who will argue this point to the
end, but I recommend this movie
strongly, and I encourage ali th
who have seen it and still doubt
see it again. You may just change
your mind.

se

to go

Locals featured in duPont exhibit

The Sculptor’s View,” an exhibit
of sculpture, paintings and prints,
opened last week at the duPont
Gallery at W&L

The exhibit is composed of submis-
sions of local artists who were re-
quested to submit one two-dimen-
sional and one _ three-dimensional
piece of their work, according to
Debra Rindge, art professor at W&L.

The artists exhibiting are Monika
Eaton, who is also the wife of W&L

 

 

2152 Sycamore Ave.

 

 

Four Seasons
Florist & Greenery

Free delivery and Last Minute Service
Available
Student Charge Accounts

8:30-5:30 or phone until 10:00 pm 261-3930

Buena Vista, Va.

 

 

 

 

drama professor Joseph Martinez;
Dee Huffman, of the art faculty of
James Madison University; Masako
Miyata, also an art professor at
James Madison; Steven K. Roberts,
a 1976 graduate of W&L and an artist
living in Washington, D.C.; Roy Rud-
isill, who teaches art at Southern
Seminary Junior College and whois a
Lexington resident; Larry Stene,
professor of art at W&L; and Ted
Turner, professor of art at the Univ-

ersity of Virginia and the brother of
W&L history professor Charles
Turner.

Rindge said local artists are ex-
hibited at W&L whenever possible to
help them overcome the relative iso-
lation of Lexington from the art
world.

“There are very few opportunities
for artists who live in the area to
show their work,”’ she added.

Attention Students!
Clark’s Second Hand Shop

Good Used Furniture at Reasonable Prices

Hours: 10-5
2450 Beech Ave.
Buena Vista, Va.

ALCO, 4 Ui
Fri. & Sat.

Me a TM LLLY

MW Tele er Genco ain ie aii (alg ies cee ay aU aLO Le
STU ees tr oe re comfortable, instantly:

MOP aOUm Ce Mere an eg MeN eur ativan ars
Roa patem Gt age. To the point where your Timberland’s,
ae pair of jeans. or an old sweater, become a Lame)
NOTA LCO MCMC Re Ror ccc Teme Tae Cater

There are few Trad TOE UC Lea ere Leer better with rca

Timberland® handsewns are two of them: OTitieg tical

Lexington Dry Goods Co:
he

261-7557 or
261-2012

 

PAD te

 
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1984

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Professors Clark Mollenhoff (sitting) and John Handelman sparred last
Thursday in a debate about whether the U.S. invasion of Grenada was

justifiable.

Faculty

Continued from Page 1

 

tinued

“You will have a tough time find-
ing a lot of Reagan bumper stickers
on faculty cars,”’ he added.

He said that for the socially and
economically privileged, there is a
high correlation with conservative
orientation

“Lack of sufficient economic and
social diversity finds expression in a
fairly narrow conservatism amongst

Weekend

Continued from Page 1

associate director of development.
The development office is organizing
the weekend.

McNeese said he expects about
1,200 people for the weekend, which is
being held for the 30th consecutive
year.

Scheduling always has presented a
problem in planning the weekend,
NeNeese said.

 

 

the student body,’’ Hodges said.

Music Professor Robert Stewart al-
so agrees the faculty is more liberal
than its national counterparts, albeit
a narrow distinction.

“IT think most of the faculty here
are probably liberal, but not by a
great percentage — say, 55 percent
liberal,’ Stewart elaborated: ‘‘I
think faculty on a national basis are
more conservative than we are
here.”

“I think the conservative/liberal
percentage among the students is too
one-sided—too conservative,’’ he
said.

First, Parents’ Weekend must be
scheduled between Oct. 20 and Nov.
10 to avoid midterm exams on one
side and Thanksgiving break on the
other, he explained. The weekend is
held after the middle of the first term
so parents can learn how their sons
are doing in their classes.

Also, the weekend must be schedul-
ed around home football games and
Parents’ Weekend at Virginia Mili-
tary Institute.

“And, as always,’ McNeese said,
“there just aren't enough hotel
rooms and restaurants.’’ He said

Grenada: one’vyear later

Professors, medical student analyze military action, political decisions

 

By BRUCE POTTER

 

Chief Editor

Saying he was here “not to
publicize or politicize, but to share a
revelation,’ an American medical

student on Grenada during last fall’s
U.S. invasion of the island told W&L
students last Thursday that ‘‘hopeful-
ly, we all as Americans can learn
something from this.”’

Michael Kimmel, 25, of Wyndmoor,
Pa., was one of 90 Grenadian stu-
dents visiting college campuses
across the country to mark the first
anniversary of the U.S. invasion of
Grenada

During his 20-minute Commerce
School presentation to about 150
students, Kimmel played a tape re-
corded from Radio Free Grenada the
day former Prime Minister Maurice
Bishop was assassinated. The broad-
cast outlined a four-day, 24-hour
curfew, during which no one could
leave his home. ‘‘Anyone violating
this curfew,’’ it said, ‘‘will be shot on
sight.”

Kimmel’s talk was followed by a
lively debate between politics Profes-
sor John Handelman and journalism
Professor Clark R. Mollenhoff. Mol-
lenhoff argued that the invasion was
justifiable, while Handelman argued
that it was not

Calling the invasion “both a legal
and proper action,’’ Mollenhoff said
it was necessary for the United
States to show it would protect its
citizens abroad.

“That’s a right we all have — to
take the flag of the United States with
us wherever we want to go,’’ he add-
ed. ‘“‘It isn’t generally recognized any
more, and I think it should be rees-
tablished.’’

Noting that, since the invasion,
stories have emerged citing heavier
U.S. casualties than earlier reported,
Mollenhoff said, ‘‘It would have been
unusual if they did not have some
foul-ups.

“I’m not soft on the Pentagon...but
I didn’t see any indication they were
lying on any part of this matter.”

After Mollenhoff’s opening re-
marks, most of which were prepared,
Handelman said, ‘‘I don’t know how
to begin, exactly.”’

He cited, though, the U.S. bombing
of a mental hospital on Grenada and
subsequent failure to rebuild that
hospital. Handelman asked the au-
dience to imagine what the patients
must have been doing as they saw
U:S. planes attacking the hospital.

“They look at each other and they
say, ‘You were right. They are after
us. They’re coming to get us,’ ” he
said.

Handelman dismissed the argu-

ment that the Grenadians posed a
threat to the United States by saying
they were not likely to ‘‘storm ashore
at Boca Raton...and move on to
Lexington.”’

One of the major concerns of the
U.S. in invading the island. Hand-
elman noted, was extension of a run-
way there to 10,000 feet.

“Are we the architects of the
world?”’ Handelman asked. ‘‘Are we
to go out there and say ‘9,000 feet,
okay; 10,000 feet, no go?’ ”’

After their opening statements, the
two professors answered questions
submitted by the audience.

Asked one question, Handelman
said, “I don’t know whether that
makes sense, first of all.”’

“That’s a real problem,’’ Mollen-
hoff retorted.

After Mollenhoff said, ‘‘We were
simply giving democracy an oppor-
tunity to work, and I would defend
that opportunity under any circum-
stances,” Handelman responded,
‘We can’t make the world safe for
democracy. I mean, that’s sort of a
Christmas-eve wish, isn’t it?...

“You can’t make the whole world
safe for democracy. Give them a fair
shot at it, sure.”’

Asked what he thought of Kim-
mel’s recounting of the events sur-
rounding the invasion, Handelman

said, ‘All I can say is ‘I didn’t want to
say this, but there you go again.’ "’

Speaking to reporters before his
presentation, Kimmel said that when
the invasion began at 5:24 a.m., ‘“‘We
weren’t sure just who it was that was
coming into Grenada.’’ Several hours
later, though, they recognized an
American aircraft, said Kimmel,
adding, ‘‘We all felt quite proud to be
Americans at that point.”

Asked if he ever felt as though he
were in danger, Kimmel said, ‘““We
were basically stranded there in a
situation that could explode.”

Kimmel also emphasized that he
was not at W&L ‘‘to promote Ronald
Reagan’s re-election,” even though
the event occurred less than two
weeks before the Nov. 6 election.

His visit, and those of the other
Grenadian students, was sponsored
by the USA Foundation, based in
Washington, D.C., and described as a
non-profit, non-partisan organization
interested ‘‘in improving the quality
and quantity of the level of public
policy debate on college campuses,”
according to Paul Erickson, publish-
er of the foundation’s new magazine,
The New American.

The organization was founded in
July 1983 by Jack Abramoff, chair-
man of the national College Republi-
cans, Erickson said.

 

Calendar

 

Continued from Page 1

or the administrative staff. I imagine
the burden will fall on the admin-
istrative side.”’

Elrod said that for a new vote of the
calendar to be taken at Monday’s fac-
ulty meeting, such a motion by some-
one who had voted for the calendar at
the October meeting would be re-
quired.

“Essentially what the new calen-

some parents will be making reser-
vations for Parents’ Weekend next
year while they are here this week-
end.

On the bright side, McNeese
pointed out, cooperation with the
faculty, the administration and the
Buildings and Grounds staff has
simplified the organization of the
weekend.

“A great many people have com-
mented on how good a job Washing-
ton and Lee does on Parents’
Weekend,”’ he said.

dar does is put us in a situation where
we work hard for six weeks to play a
couple of games, and then we have to
take a break for six weeks,’’ said
head basketball coach Verne Can-
field

Because of University rules, which
state that no away athletic events
may be scheduled the week prior to
exams and no athletic practices or
games of any kind may be held dur-
ing the three days immediately be-
fore exams begin, under the approv-
ed calendar both the basketball and
the wrestling schedules would have
to be changed.

Head wresting coach Gary Franke
also indicated that the tournament,
something he said he worked to es-
tablish as an important part of his
team’s schedule, may be difficult to
reschedule in following years.

The schedules had been made, Mc-
Henry said, based on a proposed cal-
endar which had Sept. 16 as the first
day of fall term classes and had two
weeks between the Thanksigving
break and the start of exams. Univer-
sity Registrar and chairman of the
calendar committee Harold S. Head

said the calendar the athletic depart-
ment worked from is “‘only a guide.”
Assistant Dean of the College Pam-
ela H. Simpson, who spoke in favor of
the approved schedule at the October
facutly meeting, said the schedule
the athletic department was using
“pushed us too close to Christmas.”’

Simpson explained that the Univer-
sity usually remains closed during
the week between Christmas and
New Year’s Day as a holiday for ad-
ministrative personnel. Under the
former calendar, the exam period
would not end until Dec. 20.

Simpson also said the committee
favored the change because by mov-
ing the start of school back a week,
which would then shift the first day
for freshmen orientation to Labor
Day, parents who were bringing their
children to schoo! would not be forced
to take a day off from work.

The calendar committee agreed on
the recommended change and sent it
to the faculty Executive Committee,
which in turn recommended the
change to the faculty at the October
meeting. It received approval in a
“very harmonious” vote, according
to Elrod.

Immediately after the faculty ap-
proval of the altered calendar, Mc-
Henry said, the athletic department
began work to get a reconsideration
of the vote. Less than a week after
the vote, the athletic department
presented its concerns to the Univer-
sity Athletic Committee.

Professor Samuel J. Kozak, who
chairs the committee, said he is op-
posed to the approved calendar on
“two levels.”’

“On one level, I feel (the calendar
as it now stands) is a disservice to the
athletic program, and on another lev-
el, from a pedagogic perspective, I
think having one week between
Thanksgiving break and exams is not
a particularly effective way to
teach,’’ Kozak said.

Canfield agreed with Kozak’s as-
sessment. “I think the young men
must be our first concern. If we are
forced to change our schedules, we
are putting undue pressure on the
young men. It’s hard enough to play
three games a week. We're proud of

our 3.1 team GPA and we don’t want,

to endanger it,” he said. The change
would occasionally force the team to °
play four games a week.

 

VISA’

 

Make Aluin-Bennis your first stop in Lexington

Welcome Parents

Te

 

All Suits and Sport Coats 20% Off

SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts
IZOD WOOLRICH, DEANS - Sweaters

Rugby Shirts
Chamois Shirts

Long Sleeve Sport Shirts
IZOD & Topsider Raincoats

W&L Ties

Shoes by Bass, Topsider, Clark’s

Herman Survivors
Corduroy Pants

Cashmere Topcoats

Alligator Belts
Wool Slacks

Nantucket Red Pants

Duckhead Khaki’

WA&L Belts

After Six Tuxedos

Formal Shirts

Ss

Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts

Free Gift Wrapping

Aluin-Bennis

CHARGE
ACCOUNTS

 

 

 
