‘ipso. ——*

 

 

   
   
    
  

 

 

 

 

 

VOLUME 84, NUMBER8

Ouch!

Bloodmobile
at W&L

 

Page 6

 

THE Uru mee
WASHING TON & LE
LEXINGTON, vA.

ocy 25 4

 

BMW tours
Students who study abroad

able to broaden perspective

 

 

General
Notes

 

Abzug speech

Bella Abzug, lawyer, peace ac-
tivist, television commentator
and former three-term congress-
women, will speak at Sweet Briar
College Monday, at 8 p.m. in Bab-
cock Auditorium. Her topic will be
“The Gender Gap,’ which is also
the title of her latest book.

Ariel deadline

The deadline for the fall issue of
the Ariel is Monday. Please bring
all short stories, poems, photo-
grapbs, line drawings or articles
of general interest in to Carole
Chappell’s office before 5 p.m.
that day.

IM basketball

The intramural office will spon-
sor a single-elimination, three-on-
three basketball tournament Nov.
5-9 on the new outdoor courts
(above the football practice field).
Each team must pay a $3 entry fee
by Tuesday. Any combination of
players will be accepted They do
not have to all be independents or
all be from the same fraternity or
law class. No points will be award-
ed to fraternities or law classes.

Craun on words

English Professor Edwin D.
Craun will lecture on ‘The

A Cautionary Tale for Readers,”
Tuesday, at 4 p.m. in Room 21 of
Payne Hall. The lecture, about
why people misuse language to
lie, slander and blaspheme, is the
first in a new lecture series spon-
sored by the English department.

6th District talk

Incumbent Sixth District Rep.
Jim Olin, a Democrat, will debate
his Republican challenger, Ray
Garland, Wednesday at noon in
the Moot Court room of the Law
School. The debate is sponsored
by the Federalist Society of the
Law School and the Lexington-
Rockbridge Jaycees.

Resumes due

Seniors who wish to have their
resumes included in the resume
book must turn them in to Carole
Chappell’s office by tomorrow.

Christian con oncert

he ‘Eternal C tion Sing-
oe from the Teen Challenge
Training Center in Rehrersburg,
Pa., will present a concert at
VMI’s Jackson Memorial Hall to-
morrow at 8 p.m.

i

Hazards of Question-mongering: —

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Helmut Schmidt greets a VMI cadet following yesterday afternoon's

parade,

called for by Schmidt

Former West German Chancellor
Helmut Schmidt told a Virginia Mili-
tary Institute audience last night that
a ‘‘dual-track philosophy’’ of
strength and negotiation is the best
policy for nations to follow in this
time of ‘arms race and cold war.”’

Schmidt told a crowd of 3,250 at
VMI’s Cameron Hall that the two as-
pects of this proposed. ‘‘grand strat-
egy”’ are ‘‘the ability to deter if need
be and to defend or, if necessary, to
contain; and cooperation, mainly in
the field of arms limitation.”

The 67-year-old Schmidt, who led
West Germany’s Social Democratic
Party from 1974-82, is on a three-
month lecture tour of American col-
lege campuses.

He criticized the diplomatic ap-
proach taken by the United States
and the Soviet Union in the early
years of the Reagan Administration,
charging there was little more than

Wilson to urge
board to look
to year 2000

‘‘shouting on both sides.’

“It was loudspeaker diplomacy, if
it was diplomacy atall,”’ he said

Schmidt warned that ‘‘Russian ex-
pansion lives on’ and the Soviet
Union has ‘‘a sense of mission’’ and is
willing to ‘‘bear great sacrifice and
hardship” to accomplish its goals.

“Obviously this empire needs to be
contained by our alliance,” he said.
‘We need to have the means to con-
tain further Russian expansion.”

Schmidt noted that the convention-
al arsenals of Western nations are
dangerously inadequate. ‘‘All-out
nuclear war may be necessary be-
cause we lack troops and we lack the
ability to transport troops to spots
where they would be needed,” he
said.

Schmidt, who worked as an econo-
mist before he entered German poli-
tics, said that high US. interest rates
_| See Schmidt, Page 5

 

Page 3

Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Minority dean

senzivei ai”

 

  

 

Sports

‘Victory Tour’
still dancing

 

OCTOBER 25, 1984

‘terminated’:

librarian resigns as of July

White hints at
EEOC lawsuit

By PAUL FOUTCH
News Editor

Minority Affairs Director John L. White said this
week he has been “‘terminated’’ by University Presi-
dent John D. Wilson effective in June. White said he has
retained an attorney to represent him in the matter.

He said he was informed of the decision in a memo-
randum from Wilson dated Oct. 22.

“On a delicate personnel matter, I’m not going to
have any comment at this time,’’ Wilson said yester-
day.

White, who has been minority affairs director for five
years and graduated from Washington and Lee in 1974,
said that when he spoke with Wilson on Tuesday, the
president told him he had been an ineffective recruiter.

‘He claims that he has serious doubts about my abili-
ty to do the job,” White said. ‘‘I agree that he has the
right to say that.”’

White said he had hired an attorney because ‘‘it’s
what you have to do to retain your job.”’

‘‘One of the remedies available to me is the provision
that I could be reinstated in my position,’ he said.
“Depending on what the EEOC [Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission] says or what the federal
court says, if it goes to federal court, I could be
reinstated.”’

White said a possible basis for a discrimination suit
derives from the fact that ‘‘one of the bases on which
I’m being dismissed is I’m ineffectual as a recruiter.”’

He explained that although minority recruiting is
down, he is only one of five recruiters.

“Recruitment is a shared responsibility,” he said. ‘‘If
recruitment goes down, and I get fired, it strikes me as
peculiar that it would happen that way.”’

 

= Wnite’s five years as director of minority affairs were”

marked by controversial events, the most recent of
which was an article in last week’s W&L Law News, in
which he was quoted as saying black students live in
“great fear’ of not receiving a fair trial from the Ex-
ecutive Committee if they are brought up on honor
charges.

White said he did not know if the Law News article,
which came out four days before White received
Wilson’s memo, prompted Wilson‘to fire him.

‘He said he was making some changes in the minori-
ty affairs department,” White said, ‘‘and he wished me
well in my future career in law.”

White, who is a third-year law student as well as an
administrator, last year was said to have physically at-
tacked Jim Green, an EC member serving as a prose-
cutor at an open trial of a student White was defending.
White says now that he was wrong in attacking Green.

A black student was convicted in that trial, which
White said in the Law News was marked by ‘‘procedu-
ral irregularities.”’

Black students fear that a system dominated by
whites and beset with such procedural irregularities
could result in their being unfairly convicted if a trial
were to occur, White said.

In the article, White declined to specify what pro-
cedural irregularities took place during the trials, but

See White, Page 6

 

Conroy play: the pro’s the thing

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

 

Leach will start
new association

By MIKE ALLEN
Chief Editor

University Librarian Maurice D. Leach will resign
his position July 1, according to a memorandum sent to
the faculty Monday.

Following a year’s leave of absence, Leach will re-
turn as director of a new Friends of the Library pro-
gram.

Leach said University President John D. Wilson sug-
gested the move at the beginning of the school year.
Leach said he’d thought about it ‘‘pretty hard’’ before
accepting the new position Oct. 10.

Under Leach’s administration, the library moved
from its old quarters in McCormick Hall, which now
houses the Commerce School, to the present library
building, and a major expansion of the collections was
completed.

“Mr. Leach is a proven quantity when it comes to
building a library,’’ said Dean of the College John W.
Elrod. ‘‘It seemed a good idea to have him take these
talents and use them in building up this new associa-
tion.”’

He said “friends of the library’’ programs
“‘sometimes raise money but they more often try to at-
tract important papers to the library and try to get im-
portant book collections donated.’’ He said Leach’s
work will encompass both areas.

“He has a sense of having completed his work with
this library,’’ the dean continued. ‘‘He has brought it up
to the point where he wanted it.”’

Elrod, who is chairman of the librarian search com-
mittee, said he hopes a replacement can be found ‘‘by
late spring at the very latest —hopefully earlier.’’

Leach, who assumed his position in 1968 after serving |
as a Ford Foundation program officer in the Middle
East, will retain his full professorship.

It is undecided whether the new organization will be
attached to the library, the development office or
Washington Hall.

“When the library’s need is bad — when a new
building or some basic collection is needed — it’s easier
to be seen by the public,’’ Leach said.

“Once you've started to close those gaps, keeping the
interest up is more of a job. The Friends of the Library
program will try to maintain a valid interest in the
library.”’

Leach said he was leaving his present position be-
cause of ‘‘the challenge offered by the president.”

“I’ve always found that one career position leads to
another,’’ he said. ‘‘When another opportunity comes
your way, frequently you’re about saturated as far as
what you can contribute to your current position.”’

“Your creativity and freshness may become a little
staler, stereotyped or boxed in,’’ he continued. ‘‘You
don’t look at things with as fresh an approach as you
might.”

Leach said that of the innovations in the library dur-
ing his tenure, he is most proud of the Bibliographic
Resources (‘‘190’’) classes that have been started in
conjunction with several departments.

“‘We have a pretty unique situation here of library

C) See Leach, Page 6

Chief claims
several frats
‘out of hand’

 

From Staff Reports Although Washington and Lee students performing this
weekend in ‘‘Juno and the Paycock”’ are not being paid,
one cast member said that to classify them as amateurs
‘‘would be misleading.”’

And Jarlath Conroy should know.

A veteran of numerous acting performances, Conroy, a
professional, is at W&L this month working with students
and appearing in the leading role of the play.

“Professionalism is a state of mind, whether one is get-
ting paid or not,’”’ Conroy said. ‘One meets a lot of
amateurs in the professional theater. I don’t find it at all
difficult to deal with the students here if they bring their
own practical approach to their work.”

Conroy plays the part of Paycock, the Irish way of say-
ing Peacock. Paycock also is known as Captain Boyle.
Directed by Joseph Martinez, the play also stars Al Gor-
don as Juno, Boyle’s wife.

The play is set during the Irish Civil war of 1922 and will
show here from Friday, Oct. 26, to Wednesday, Oct. 31,
and on Nov, 3 at the Troubadour Theatre.

“The central character is a young boy with his hip shot
up and an arm torn off in the civil war,’’ said Martinez.
“It’s a comedy /tragedy about a very poor tenement fami-
ly in Dublin.”’

“Juno and Captain Boyle,”’ continued Martinez ‘“‘repre-
sent aspects of the Irish national character. They are ar-
chetypical characters but O’Casey’s brilliance is that
these characters are incredibly real and naturalistic.
O’Casey writes deep pathos and evokes a strong passion
from his audience.”’

“The essential drama in the Irish national character is
either to run from or face reality,’ he added. ‘‘The play
gets its energy from this tension.”’

“Even people who have never been to a play before
would like this one,’’ said Conroy. ‘I think the main
reason to see the play is for a portrayal of an element of
Dublin life in particular and also life in a universal sense.
It’s a slice of life of people going through difficulties and
pain.

“It’s a different experience,’’ Conroy continued, ‘‘to be
able to stand outside these emotions and look on. I think

See Conroy, Page 5

Big Mac/ Big Bros. From Staff Reports

Washington and Lee is trailing
Virginia Military Institute, 107-89,
in the contest sponsored by Mc-
Donald’s encouraging patrons to
bring in advertisements from the
schools’ football programs. If
Washington and Lee wins the con-
test, which runs through Nov. 21,
it will receive $500 toward its Big
Brothers program. Patrons must
take the whole page on which the
coupon appears in order to re-
ceive credit.

East Asian trips

The East Asian Studies Com-
mittee has announced its ex-
change programs for 1985-86. A
Washington and Lee student may
apply to spend an academic year
at Chung Chi College, Chinese
University of Hong Kong or Rik-
kyo University in Tokyo or a sem-
ester at the Kansai University of
Foreign Studies near Kyoto. A stu-
dent also may take beginning
Chinese in Taiwan next summer.

‘Notes’ requests

“General Notes’’ request forms
may be obtained from the career
information stand by Carole
Chappell’s office. They must be
turned in to The Ring-tum Phi
box, upstairs in the Student

University President John D.
Wilson says he will urge. the
Washington and Lee Board of Trust-
ees this weekend to ‘‘concentrate on
the next 15 years and not be in-
fatuated with the details of the
coeducation transition.”

The 25-member board will meet in
Lexington this weekend to consider
matters relating to coeducation and
other University business.

‘“‘We need to make sure we don’t
lose sight of the forest,’ Wilson said
Tuesday. ‘‘This institution will be 250
years old in 1999, on the eve of the
next century.

‘What we do and how we do it in
the next 14 years will determine
whether we will increase our status
as a prominent national institution of
the first rank.”’

As part of the University presi-
dent’s report to the board Saturday,
Dean Pamela H. Simpson, who
chairs the Coeducation Steering
Committee, will discuss the results of
that group’s preliminary work.

In addition, the coed committee
will have a social meeting with the
board tomorrow evening.

“They'll discuss the fruit of their
work so far on the many, many sub-
jects they’re taking up,”’ Wilson said

Wilson said coeducation will be on
the agendas of a number of the
board’s six committees.

At a joint meeting, members of the
Planning and Development and Cam-

Center, by 1 p.m. Tuesday of the | Pus Life committees will discuss the
week they are to be run. renovations planned for University
fe See Trustees, Page 6

Police confiscated a stereo from a
Pi Kappa Phi party at 1:44 a.m.
Saturday after the fraternity ignored
a warning that it was violating noise
laws, Lexington Police Chief L.O.
Sutton said.

A summons also was issued to Pi
Phi President Edward V. Buttarazzi.
Sutton said five police officers went
to the house after an 11:30 p.m. warn-
ing was disregarded.

“With their attitude and because of
the previous warning, there was no
assurance the stereo would be turned
off or down if it weren’t confiscated,”’
Sutton said. ‘‘It was a last resort to
establish peace and quiet.”’

“They were giving the officers a
hard time and were shouting some
obscenities and some unnecessary
and racial slurs toward one of my of-
ficers,”’ he said.

Buttarazzi said removing the
stereo ‘‘was one way of getting
everybody out of there — I see that
—but the effect might have been ac-
hieved by just turning it off.”’

He said the person who shouted the
remarks Sutton referred to ‘‘was no
one in our house.”’

‘We were the only party on cam-
pus that night, so there were a lot of
people there that we didn’t recog-
nize,’’ Buttarazzi said.

Ina Tuesday meeting Sutton ‘‘was
very open and very receptive to any
suggestions I had,’’ said Buttarazzi,
adding that he recommended a meet-
ing between the police chief and frat

See PiPhi, Page 3

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinely /WA&l

Jarlath Conroy

 

..willappear this weekend

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 2

OPINION October 25, 1984
Nice college

Forget Brown University, Lisa Birnbach.

Last Monday, 1,200 of the 8,000 undergraduates there voted
for the campus infirmary to stockpile cyanide pills to be used
in the event of nuclear war. The rationale involved, accord-
ing to Students for Suicide Tablets, sponsors of the initiative,
is that nuclear war will wreak such havoc on the human race
that life simply won’t be worth living. What a cheery thought.

‘‘We think that the potential for destruction in the event of a
nuclear war is so great that it will not only destroy our
civilization but our whole value system,” said Jason Salz-
man, an organizer of the non-binding initiative. ‘‘Suicide
would have a whole different meaning.”’

 

How was that again? Nuclear war will destroy our whole
value system and therefore let’s stockpile pills now so we
won’t have to worry then? Talk about a value system! Taking
human life will remain the same heinous crime then that it is
now.

Fear of nuclear war cannot be allowed to control our every
move. Responding with a fatalistic acceptance of a seeming-
ly inevitable end does nothing to prevent that end. The
students at Brown, while expressing a fear of nuclear holo-
caust, could have chosen a more positive approach. Accep-
ting nuclear war as inevitable and choosing to serve selfish
interests in the event of nuclear war is the real decay in
values.

Schedule a change

Just as we were recovering from the aftereffects of
midterms — and the same week as seniors received their
LSAT scores— yet another rigor of academe was inflicted
upon us this week— registering for winter term courses.

Although we are thankful for the variety of courses
available and realize the necessity of registering now for a
term that won’t begin until students start looking for Fancy
Dress dates (seems a long way off, doesn’t it?), we must
question a registration process that does not allow us to
specify a time of day we would prefer to take our courses.

This produces what, at times, amounts to little more than a
game between students and the registrar’s office, which is
busy enough as it is without having to endure such foolish-
ness.

A constant in the always-complex equation of how many
students will sign up for which courses is that most students
would rather not have an ‘“‘A’’ hour class. Especially on
Thursday mornings.

Rather than leave their semester’s party plans to fate and
the whims of the registrar’s computer, therefore, they will
sign up for a course that meets only at ‘‘A’’ hour, which they
can then drop in January in favor of something more comfor-
table, such as a ‘‘G’’ hour course.

And then there’s the ‘“‘morning” student (or one whose
afternoons are taken up by other activities, such as sports).
He, of course, will be assigned the ‘‘J’’ section of a course
that also meets at ‘‘A’”’ or “‘B’’ hour and will change his
schedule in the opposite direction.

All this does is create additional work for the registrar’s of-
fice, which not only must process the initial schedule but then
must make the requisite drop/add changes.

A more effective means of scheduling, from everyone’s
standpoint, would be to allow students to merely note on their
schedule cards — a place for this, we might add, already ex-
ists — which hour they would prefer to take a course. The
party-goer can specify ‘‘G’’ hour; the ‘‘morning’’ person,
‘*A”’ hour,

Although this may give the computer some more numbers
to crunch (and we realize everyone won’t get what he wants
— that’s a given), it will enable initial course schedules
(those are the ones you usually forget to pick up around exam
time) to more closely reflect the classes you'll actually take
the following semester.

The slightly greater workload for the registrar’s office at
registration time will be more than offset by a lighter work-
load and less course changes at the beginning of the new
semester. And this makes things run more smoothly for
everyone.

 

Correction

In an article in last week’s Ring-tum Phi about the Alumni Board
meeting, it was incorrectly stated that donations to the Annual Fund
are down so far this year. Development Director Farris P. Hotchkiss
reports that donations this year are ‘“‘significantly higher’’ than they
were last year at this time and said it is “‘much too early to tell what
the trends” in alumni giving will be following the coeducation deci-
sion.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Chief Editors Business Manager

Bruce Potter William Schoeffler
Mike Allen

 

OWS Ns oc crcccc es ceviccccccsctsspevectepevigecens tesetesesesss Paul Foutch
PE hs CH ae aie elionas Reade Williams
ek ee Mike Stachura
er Nelson Patterson
Photography Editor ...... ... Cotton Puryear
pe ee ee Peter Crane
Advertising Manager. . . aves cvocceveses AMOS BUOM
| eect creer Chris Bowring, Jeff Hubbard

Chris Gareis
MINI ako iio oc cho hci ssc David Dunn

Eric Hancock, Jeff Kimbell,
Rob Tolleson, Brad Watkins

The Ring4um Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ringtum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring+um Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

a

—_

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the event of a real nuclear war....

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘This is a test of the Emergency Broadcast System.

 

 

Do clothes make the man?

 

MY
VIEW

By Al
Roberts

 

 

 

 

 

It's now in fashion, so let’s talk ties.
How can clothes make us men?

We subscribe to a very strange
ethos when we disdain the tie for the
weekday trek up the Hill, but gleeful-
ly button down in unison for Saturday
football games. 2

If we are caught wearing ties to
class, the labels that may be affixed
are:

1) Futch student.

2) Groveling goose.

3) Both of the above.

We find the student sporting the
despised cravat as rare as the pro-
fessor in shirtsleeve.

This Janus-faced attitude must
flow from the ‘Cult of Slackness’’
lately embraced among Washington
and Lee’s student bodies.

“Thou shalt not take thy studies too
seriously nor thy partying too
lightly,”’ the Cult’s First Command-
ment reads. We fight vigorously for
the right to party on Wednesday

nights, even as we assert our right
not to study beyond the call of duty.
“But you didn’t tell us that was going
to be on the test,’ we wail on Wednes-
day.

Between exams, it is far more re-
spectable to refrain from comment
than to risk error. Besides, some
“tool’’ is bound to find a practical
application of the class material or to
say: “Did you see the article in Sun-
day’s New York Times?”

“The infidel must be ostracized
from the cult,” we mutter. “‘Now
we'll have to find that damned article
in the library and cite it on the exam.
What a hose!”

Academic marks, it seems, are
meant as a measure of how efficient-
ly we accomplish the bare minimum.
The Grade Point Average need only
be as high as the University stand-
ards, or in some cases, high enough
to win a place in a graduate program.

Atnotime are the tenets of the Cult
more piously observed than when
choosing classes. As I registered for
winter term Monday, an acquain-
tance advised against taking a cer-
tain history course.

“T had to struggle for a hook [C],”’
he warned. “If you have to take a
history course, go for 666 with
Jones.”

Good intentions aside, this guy was

recommending my course of study
with no clues to my career objec-
tives. I still opted for the tougher
course, not because I am a glutton for
all-nighters (which I am) or because
I am an especially efficient student
(which I am not); but because I’m
more intrigued by modern Latin
America than by ancient Greece.

As one who has chanted B.1.0.
(Blow It Off) once too often, I have
found an alternative to the Cult.

It is not the wearing of prescribed
attire or the fashioning of a given
GPA that makes men of boys.

It is by the personal process of a
liberal education and not by the
labels on the final product that we
may rate ourselves and our minds.
We cannot limit our explorations to
the norm; our readings to the sylla-
bus. To do so is to invite the ridicule
of Lisa Birnbach; to flout our touted
traditions.

The foundation of the Honor Sys-
tem is such that each man be judged
on his singular endeavor, as Teddy
Roosevelt hoped: ‘Far better is it to
dare mighty things, to win glorious
triumphs, even though checkered by
failure, than to take rank with those
poor spirits who neither enjoy much
nor suffer much, because they live in
the gray twilight that knows not vic-
tory nor defeat.”’

 

Disclaimer
Criticized
by reader

To the Editors:

I was surprised by the little par-
agraph on the second page of last
week’s Phi from ‘‘the editors’ about
the Canterbury Fellowship ad which
also appeared in that issue. Those
sentences were not the sort of thing I
was used to seeing and they left me
with some questions.

Since the editors ‘formally disas-
sociate’’ themselves with that ad,
does that mean that they ‘‘associate’’
themselves with every other? (So
you guys suggest the ‘Exotic Cock-
tails’’ then? or maybe just ‘“‘infor-
mally’’?)

The editors realize that the ad may
offend some readers for its message.
While I agree that it is necessary to
consider the moral values of readers
at certain times, it seems, nonethe-
less, that potentially offensive sub-
jects have appeared in the Phi be-
fore. There are some, no doubt, who
might find the mention of liquor, sex
and guns disturbing, all subjects
which have appeared either in adver-
tisements or in articles in The Phi.

The editors also feel that some
readers may object to “having any
group’s views held up to ridicule.”
There is a group whose football team
beat us at homecoming whose views
never seem to tire as a subject for
satire. It doesn’t seem that the
editors were so concerned there.

They also say that The Phi is a
newspaper for the ‘entire communi-
ty.’ What one is that? One which
finds Farmville funnier than some-
where else closeby in Virginia? One
that is offended when serious sub-
jects are introduced in ad-man fash-
ion? (It seems to me that much of
politics concerns itself with the latter
question. )

I agree with anyone that perhaps
the ad wasn’t in the best of taste, but
I hope that The Phi readership is
smart enough to recognize when
something is deliberately provoca-
tive without having to be told. I also
hope that it won’t blame the editors
for everything that might shock. Per-
sonally, I think some of the illustra-
tion on the opinion page pretty offen-
sive, but I hope the editors won’t de-
nounce it.

While I am sure I should recognize
here a certain consideration, pru-
dence and fairness on the part of the
“editors, I am only more offended by
what seems cheap, wimpy and itself,
biased.

Erik Curren
Class of 1987

Apathy can also be applied to faculty

MY VIEW

By Ben Hale

Student apathy! It has come to be
mentioned in the same light as small-
pox or polio: How do we cure this
disease?! One way might be to put
one of the causes under the micro-
scope: faculty apathy. Faculty
apathy isn’t, of course, the sole
reason for student apathy but it has a
lot to do with it and perpetuates it.

One of the sadder aspects of this
place is the void of faculty-student in-
teraction outside the classroom and
the office. Our small size is wasted
when personal relationships don’t
parallel the professional relation-
ships. A tiny bit of this goes on, but
not nearly enough — the campus
starves for it. The faculty is more to
blame than the students because it is
the continuity here — and things
have not always been this way.

I listened recently to some alumni
of the late 60s talk about their days
here; they talked mostly about the
strong social circles with faculty and
students, and how much it had meant
to them. One said he had learned
more flipping burgers with his
English adviser than he had in the
classroom. There is no quick answer
to why this stopped, but that it stop-
ped means that a good deal — or
maybe most — of the real
communication between faculty and
students has stopped. This has a lot to
do with the rift that we now face be-
tween ‘‘the Hill’ and ‘‘Red Square.”
It is also much repsonsible for the
lack of intellectual fire that those
same faculty bemoan: I get far more
interested in Plato in an individual
conversation than while taking notes.

Those faculty members who spent
their Friday nights at student houses
are of course older now, but there are
younger faculty who are as energetic

Midterms

 

as their seniors were 20 years ago.
These younger faculty have not, how-
ever, been oriented to this way of
thinking. They are as distant per-
sonally from students as those who
have stopped being close—I am by no
means saying that only younger fac-
ulty can associate and socialize with
students or that the burden falls on
them. They are, for the most part, re-
ceiving a bad example from older
faculty who know how things ought to
be. Of course, much of the blame
falls on apathetic students who seem
to prefer beer sliding to a beer with a
professor — but this preference
comes in part from a lack of faculty
initiative.

Faculty apathy can be further seen
in their attendance at campus
events. Aside from that group of fac-
ulty who continue to support almost
everything, faculty attendance at
most events is proportionally as low
as student attendance. I have con-
fronted some faculty with this and
have met the mood that having a
bunch of students that don’t care and
won't go is so discouraging that they
would rather not waste their efforts.
This makes sense and is doubtlessly
a valid feeling— but their enthusiasm
for what is going on can only have a
positive effect on student en-
thusiasm. Here is an example of the
self-perpetuating circle of a bad cam-
pus aftitude.

The fraternity system is another
maddening example of this circle.
With the fraternity system in tro-
uble—especially with faculty dissat-
isfaction, one would think the
“grown-ups” would be lined up to be
fraternity advisers, or just to help,
but indeed some houses have had to
search hard for advisers and then
sometimes settle for a token one. The
fraternities aren’t reaching out as
they should but this is in part due to
their not seeing anyone to reach to.
The fraternities are finally making a

concerted effort to straighten them-
selves out but they must have advice
and guidance from someone who
cares ——which is far more helpful
(and meaningful) than disdainful
criticism. Certainly the bad student
attitude discourages a faculty mem-
ber from getting involved. But the
circle must be broken somewhere.
There are many faculty who still
reach out to students personally
—those who don’t eat in the back of

Apathy not

the co-op away from the students,
those who bring students to morning
coffee, those who take time to talk
with students in Kroger. They are
some of the same ones who are dedi-
cated fraternity advisers, open-
minded SAC members, etc. I certain-
ly don’t want to criticize them— but
to encourage the rest of the faculty to
follow their example. I don’t even
need to say that teaching reaches far
outside the classroom — or should.

connected

to fashion, student says

To the Editors:

I have to agree when Scott Tilley
says apathy has run amok at Wash-
ington and Lee. Lectures, readings,
plays, films and games of all sorts
are pitifully attended, and the after-
class exodus from the Hill is mute
witness to many students’ disinterest
in much W&L has to offer. I must ad-
mit I am guilty of this to a certain
degree.

However, I find Mr. Tilley’s school
spirit and opinions about what W&L
is all about (My View, Oct. 18) rather
amusing. W&L, as I see it, is about
knowledge, learning and most impor-
tantly, broadening one’s horizons
through exposure to many and varied
people, arts and ideas. Khakis, Duck
Heads and ties at football games are
not a part of my W&L. Indeed, I find
the ‘“W&L uniform’? and _ the
lethargic conformity it represents to
be one of W&L’s biggest detractors.

I do not consider myself any less a
gentleman because I do not wear the
khaki, oxford and tie uniform, or
because I dare to wear a T-shirt and
jeans to a football game. Clothes do
not make the man, and college stu-
dents needn’t dress like their fathers.

Although I do not doubt Mr. Tilley’s

by Chris Gareis

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

ck r .
JOurR TIME
\ HAs cone!

 

 

 

 

 

devotion to his W&L, I must question
what he thinks is the best way to
show one’s commitment to W&L’s
ideals. I would much rather go to col-
lege with unkempt people who spoke
in class and attended ‘“‘all those other
things” than a herd of mute and dis-
interested style men. Apathy, or in-
terest, has nothing to do with clothes
and ties.
David W. Johnston
Class of 1986

Objection
overruled

To the Editors:

I’m not sure where you get your in-
formation about the law school acti-
vities for your paper, but you had bet-
ter check your sources.

I have never been in a sorority nor
do I plan to start one next year for
your female students. I am not on
any committee to do such a thing,
and do not know of one that exists.

So — there you have it. Please find
out who your writers meant to name
in their article. It wasn’t...

Mary Poletti
Law Class of 1987

Editors’ note: Although Poletti's letter
was addressed to the editors of The
Ring-tum Fi, we assume she is referr-
ing to the front-page article (“Six
sororities rushing W&L") in the Oct. II
edition of The Ring-tum Phi. That arti-
cle quotes a Mary Anne Poletti,
described in the article as “executive
director for expansion of Kappa Alpha
Theta.” It in no way referred to law stu-
dent Mary Poletti. Although we apolo-
gize for any inconvenience this similari-
ty of names may have caused, we sug-
gest that law student Mary Lettrich
Poletti check her sources next time.
ee gee ae

The Ring-tum Phi, October 25, 1984

Page 3

 

Bond proposal abandoned

By JOHN WINTERS
Staff Reporter

 

A planned automatic bail program
for women’s college students arrest-
ed in Lexington for drunk driving has
been abandoned by the University

‘administration.
In early September, Lexington Po-
“lice Chief L.O. Sutton sent a letter to
Dean of Students Lewis G. John in an
“gifort to create an “ombudsman”
"program for the visitors at Washing-
yiton and Lee. The purpose of this pro-

~.gram would have been to provide
> overnight housing for the women and
s assurances from the school that

iqthose charged of drunken driving

~ would have a place to stay until the
alcohol wore off as well as ensuring

“ee

.

phat they would appear in court.
_. Sutton said, “The problem is that

girls coming from other schools have
to go back to class the next day;
therefore, they must drive.’’

Between two and six DUI’s occur
each weekend, and the majority of
those are issued to girls from the sur-
rounding schools, Sutton added.

The Lexington jail is not equipped
to handle female ‘‘prisoners’’ and, if
the girls cannot make bail, they must
be sent to Staunton. Therefore, Sut-
ton said he thought establishing a
bond program with the school would
help avoid the hassle of transporta-
tion and booking.

Associate Dean of Students Mich-
ael Cappeto, chairman of the Alcohol
Policy Review Committee, said the
school decided to reject the offer for
the time being. Cappeto said a lack of
housing for the women, and the
unwillingness of administration per-

sonnel to assume responsibility for
them were the two main concerns.

John added that the school was
worried about the legal ramifications
of the whole program. “If a student
whom we had bailed out decided not
to come back to school and thus miss-
ed their court date, the school would
be held responsible,”’ he said.

Sutton said he has spoken with sev-
eral fraternity presidents about the
drunk driving problem. ‘We need
some way of taking the need...or nec-
essity to drive out of the social arena
we are operating out of,”’ he said.

He added that ‘‘we don’t want to
dampen anyone’s fun but we do want
to save lives,” One of the best ways to
assure everyone’s safety, according
to Sutton, is to ride in a carpool and
designate one person to not drink and
thus be the driver.

 

 

Police Chief L.O. Sutton
... Some frats may be getting ‘out
of hand”

Taking AIM

EC to throw a ‘party’

 

By BILL MARTIEN
Staff Reporter

 

To celebrate Collegiate Alcohol
Awareness Week at Washington and
Lee, the Executive Committee will
throw a party Tuesday.

EC representatives and faculty
members will drink from 7:to 10 p.m.

 

Pi Phi
() Continued from Page 1
ernity presidents.

The police chief said one of the cur-
rent problems is that ‘‘the presidents

 

Study abroad can broaden the mind

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
Staff Reporter

 

Students who study abroad can
participate in activities, such as tour-
ing a BMW factory, that broaden the
mind and sharpen the critical per-
8pective, according to one professor,

qneeting Tuesday with students inter-

ested in foreign studies.

“ “Studying abroad makes you more
gritical of your own country and your
own lifestyle...and also makes you
more appreciative,” said Alfred G.
Fralin, a romance languages profes-
sor who traveled to France with stu-
ydents last April and May on one of
, Washington and Lee’s eight spring
term foreign study programs in
rGreece, Japan, Spain, Taiwan, Ecua-
dor, England, France and Germany.

Professor Robert B. Youngblood,

ywho has organized several trips to

Germany, said the program “deals
with everything we can possibly fit
yintoit.”’

Youngblood listed concerts, the
theater, museums, history, architec-
{ural remains and ecclesiastical, ar-
tistic and industrial monuments as
supplements to the study agenda.

In particular, students toured the

‘Who’s Who’
to include 34
Wa&L students

A total of 34 Washington and Lee

students will be included in the 1985
edition of ‘‘Who’s Who Among Stu-
dents in American Universities and
Colleges.”’
» The students were selected on the
basis of their academic achievement,
service to the community, leadership
wn extracurricular activities and
potential for continued success.

They join an elite group of students
selected from more than 1,500 institu-
tions of higher learning in all 50
states, the District of Columbia and
‘several foreign nations.

Outstanding students have been
honored in the annual directory since

“it was first published in 1934.

Of the 34 W&L students included in
the 1985 volume, 27 are seniors and
“rseven are third-year law students.

Those selected to Who’s Who are:

Seniors: Ian B. Banwell, B. Darby
“Brower, Robert Bryant, Samuel P.
.Dalton, Cole Dawson, John DiDuro,

Jeffrey D. Dixon, Ben Hale, Glen
* Jackson, Todd Jones, David N. Jon-
.son, Kevin H. Kelley and Ken L.
Moles.
‘Also, Clarke H. Morledge, David L.
.Perdue, G. Bruce Potter, William L.

Reed Jr., L. Gray Sanders, David A.
"Sizemore, James R. Spatig, David W.
.Sprunt, Charles W. Stern, Mark E.

Sullivan, B. Scott Tilley, Robert J.
“Tomaso, Christopher Williams and
. Peter M. Wright.

Third-year law students: Louise
‘Jackson Browner, Paul E. Fletcher
+IIl, Charles F. Martel, M. Susan

Palmer, Seth C. Prager, Patricia A.
* Shean and John J. Sicilian.

‘

BMW factory and also spent a day in
East Berlin, where they listened to
government lectures that Young-
blood termed ‘‘propaganda.”’

Lectures and classes are in the lan-
guage of the hosting country, as in
the case of Germany and France, al-
though instruction in some programs
may be in English, such as the term
in Greece.

Stewart Anderson, who was a par-
ticipant in the 1982 program in Ger-
many, called the ‘‘basic language
barrier’ the “epitome of culture
shock.”

Anderson explained, however, that
the Germans were as curious about
America as he was about Germany.
‘‘Many times,”’ he said, ‘‘that curiosi-
ty was anicebreaker.”’

“Students love talking politics,’’ he
added.

The terms in Germany and France
are spent with host families, and

SAC vote slated

From Staff Reports

A motion to reconsider the rule pro-
hibiting guests at Wednesday night
parties has been before the Student
Affairs Committee for three weeks,
but will “definitely” be voted on to-
day, according to Student Body Pres-
ident Cole Dawson.

Dawson proposed the motion Oct.
4, after some students said ‘that the
rule was unfair and counterproduc-
tive, during a forum held in the Exec-
utive Committee room.

The motion was tabled when it was
first made, the SAC did not meet the
next week because of an Alumni
Board meeting and the motion was
not voted on last week because neith-
er Dawson nor Interfraternity Coun-
cil President David Perdue was at
the meeting.

Mesner trial set

A trial date has been set for the
man indicted for arson and murder in
connection with last spring’s Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity house fire.

The trial of Scot Tanner Mesner, a
19-year-old Hollins College resident
who was indicted by a grand jury
Sept. 4, is scheduled for Dec. 19-21.

The date was set following an evi-
dence hearing Tuesday between Mes-
ner’s lawyers and Commonwealth’s
Attorney Beverly C. “John” Read.

Mesner has been held in Rock-
bridge County Jail since Sept. 4. Bail
was set at $150,000 at the time of his

 

Youngblood pointed out that the W&L
instructors sometimes act as media-
tors between the American students
and German families.

Youngblood recognized that many
times students are unaware of cultur-
al differences and said that instruc-
tors every once in a while have to
‘“‘make sure the student isn’t putting
his feet up on the coffee table.”’

Besides the most obvious advan-
tages of studying in a foreign coun-
try, Fralin also included the ‘‘less
tangible aspects of the experience,”
suchas living witha native family.

Youngblood called the foreign
study programs a ‘‘combination of
living experience and learning ex-
perience.”

The spring programs, however,
are not the only ones available to
W&L students.

Semester and year-long programs,
some sponsored by Washington and

News Briefs

arrest, and his motion to have that
amount reduced was denied Sept. 19.

Benefit nets $900

Delta Tau Delta fraternity will
donate $900 to the-United Way cam-
paign from the proceeds of a benefit
concert Saturday.

The concert, held in the Cockpit,
drew an enthusiastic crowd of stu-
dents, faculty and Lexington re-

sidents. The program featured enter-:

tainment by Washington and Lee
graduates Tim Eddy, Dominic Ly-
ons, Pete Davis and Burr Datz along
with the Ruley Brothers, Wildgrass
and the Convertibles.

Datz is the chapter advisor of Delta
Tau Delta and helped the chapter or-
ganize the event.

Tailgate for lunch

The Parents’ Weekend lunch
scheduled for noon on Saturday, Nov.
3, will be served on the upper athletic
field as well as in Evans Dining Hall,
according to Carter V. McNeese, the
administrator in charge of the week-
end program.

He said the change was made to
enable fraternities and their parents
to participate in a tailgate party
prior to the 1:30 p.m. football and
soccer games.

Fraternities and other interested
groups should plan to bring their
meals, trash cans, tables and beer
kegs up to the field for the all-school
tailgate party.

 

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

EE. Nelson ST.

Phone 463-21863

 

 

 

 

 

Join us at

: THE

——<————

   

PALMS

 

 

Jim Eddy
c., tel

 

 

 

Friday and Saturday
4:30 pm. to 12:00

t.D. required

   

 

 

 

Lee and others by surrounding col-
leges, provide students with choices
in meeting their educational needs.

The office of the dean of students
has many catalogs and pamphlets
describing a wide variety of pro-
grams offered by W&L and the sur-
rounding colleges, as well as pro-
grams of institutions throughout the
country and the world.

Law school
presentations
set for Friday

 

may not have respect they deserve
from the brotherhood of their own
houses,”’ Buttarazzi added.

The police chief said the incident
last weekend was symptomatic of
repeated difficulties the police
department is having with approx-
imately five fraternities.

‘Apparently things are getting out
of hand,” Sutton said. ‘‘The spirit of
cooperation as far as they are
concerned is being ignored.”

“It disturbs me that they’re getting
to be defiant,” he continued.

“I don’t think they want to do that.
But if it’s a confrontation they want,
then that’s what they’re going to get.
They’re the ones that are doing it
—not us.”

Sutton said the police department
has issued eight summonses to frat-
ernities so far this year, more than
the total of all last year.

The police chief said Pi Phi had no
amplified sound permit the night the
stereo was confiscated. He added
that the previous Friday the fraterni-
ty had called him at home and he
came out at night to supply it with a
permit.

Buttarazzi said not getting the per-
mit last weekend ‘‘was neglect on my

Tuesday night in the EC room in the
University Center. An I
will be used to test the blood-alcohol
level of those participating in the ex
periment.

One of the purposes of the A
Awareness Week, proci:
Gov. Charies Robb, is to make people
aware of how much they can drink
before their blood-alcohol level
reaches 0.1, when it is illegal to drive

Taking place at 30 colleges in Vi
ginia, the theme of the week is
AIM (Alcohol In Moderation

“We are trying to have practica
programs, not a series of films
debates,” said Shayam Menon, the
sophomore EC representative organ
izing the week.

Between midnight and 1 a.n

aico-sens

iconol

med by

Wed

nesday night, Menon wiil be outside
the Cockpit with the alco-sensor to
test the alcohol level of people leav
ing the Wednesday Night in the Pit
program.

“‘We hope that someone leaving the
Cockpit feels like they could drive
Menon said, ‘‘but realizes after tak

ing the test that they blow 0.1”
There will also be a bulletin board
outside the Cockpit giving lawyers’

fees for representing a person charg
ed with driving while intoxicated

The alco-sensor will be in the Cock
pit between 6 and 7 p.m. Friday,
along with WLUR, the campus radio
station.

The week will end Nov. 6 with lec-
tures on “driving under the in
fluence” charges by two police of-
ficers and a film on drunk driving

Menon, who said Miller Brewer Co
will sponsor the week, added that he

 

By REED HIBBS part — it was something I didn’teven hopes the various programs ‘wil! do
Staff Reporter think about.”’ ; some good.”’
Washington and Lee’s Placement Factory Discount
Office is sponsoring a Pre-Law
Forum, tomorrow, Oct. 26, in the Furniture

University Center. The forum will
run from 1-5 p.m. A special presenta-
tion on how to evaluate a law school
will begin at4p.m.

According to Associate Dean of
Students Michael Cappeto the Pre-
Law Forum will give students the
chance to discuss plans with law
school representatives.

“There will be admissions repre-
sentatives from about 30 law schools
here,” Cappeto said. W&L, the Univ-
ersity of Virginia, Notre Dame,
Boston College and Georgetown as

_ well as many smaller schools will be

in attendance.

Although the Pre-Law Forum will
be held here at W&L, invitations have
been extended to other area colleges.
Students from Randolph-Macon Wo-
man’s College, Sweet Briar, Virginia
Military Institute and Hampden-
Sydney College will attend the
Forum. Therefore, Dean Cappeto
suggests that W&L students arrive
early.

“It would be advisable for stu-
dents, especially seniors, to have
specific questions in mind when they
meet with the admission represen-
tatives. Good questions would in-
clude references to difficulty of ad-
mission, housing situations, social
life and post-graduation placement
records. Seniors should definitely be
prepared to talk admissions.’

Yale’s Law School, which will be
unable to attend Friday’s sessions,
will be here next week. Appointments
are available through the Placement
Office.

Everyday low prices for
Beds ¢ Tables * Couches ¢ Lamps
Dressers ¢ Cannon Towels & Wash Cloths:
Irregular Sheets ¢ Tools and more

Phone: 463-2184

Located next to Lamberts on Rt. 11

Mon.-Sat. 9-6

CHS SS LSLAL LAA AL AL SABLA DP

 

Featuring:
ERASERHEAD

Plus:
5 SHORT FILMS

*Hollywood Halloween
*Nun Fun

Hardware War

*Fish Heads

*The Wizard of Speed
& Time

Friday, Saturday, & Sunday
7:15 &9:30pm
duPont Auditorium
Admission $1.50

 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS

, ’

eT ae ae

 

eae

wy

 

 

 

Tee

below.

 

Money-saving
Student Coupon

(_] YES, send me 25 weeks of U.S.News & World Report for only
$9.88. |'ll save 50% off the regular subscription rate and 77% off the

ee ey ee ee ee

U.S.News & World Report presents

News,Waves

Nb

  

Toe A

News waves? They're the trends of today—in politics, business, youth, the
economy—that affect what's to come next month, next year, in the next decade
News waves in U.S.News: We analyze them every week (before they
make the headlines elsewhere) to keep you on top of—and prepared foi
what the future holds in store.
Subscribe to U.S.News at half-price. Just fill out and send in the coupon

cover price. {_] Payment enclosed [_] Bill me

|

|

|

|

|

|

| Name.
| School Name
| Address _
|

|

|

|

|

L

City/State _

  

4 WORLD REPORT

Mail coupon to:
GROANS) Fey U.S.News & World Report
2400 N St., N.W. Room 416
Washington, D.C. 20037

Listen for the News Blimp on WLUR. Brought to you by U.S. News & World Report

SS SS SS SE SS SE ES SS SE EE SE GS MNES GEE Gets: Gee: Guree sera once

Apt

 

 

Less than ©

40¢

an ae

 

itil deeaitsoieaiineiinauainiianiiniaalel

Zip
 

Gridders
end skid
with win

By WILLIAM KING
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee football
team held off a second-half come-
back by the University of the South,
defeating the Tigers, 17-14, Saturday
at Wilson Field.

The Generals led 14-0 at halftime
and appeared to have control of the
game before Sewanee, led by quar-
terback Bobby Morales, came back
to tie the game early in the fourth
quarter. W&L placekicker James
White kicked a 23-yard field goal
later in the quarter, giving the
Generals the victory.

W&L scored on its first possession
of the game, driving 93 yards in 11
plays for a touchdown. Quarterback
Jon Thornton, starting his first game
for the Generals, connected with
wide receiver Randy Brown for a 49-
yard pass completion on the Gene-
rals’ second offensive play, moving
the ball to the Sewanee 37-yard line.
Later in the drive, Thornton hit
Brown for 10 yards on a crucial third
down situation. Three plays later,
fullback Frank Surface scored from
the three, and White added the con-
version to make the score 7-0.

Early in the second quarter, the
Generals had apparently scored their
second touchdown when Thornton
passed 23 yards to tight end Ian Ban-
well. The score was nullified by a
holding penalty. The drive stalled
after the penalty, and a bad snap
from center ona 48-yard field goal at-
tempt ended the Generals’ scoring
hopes.

W&L increased its lead to 14-0 on
its next possession when it drove 80
yards in nine plays. Thornton com-
pleted a pair of 43-yard strikes to
wingback Lee Cummings and tail-
back Gene Girard during the drive,
both coming on third-and-long situa-
tions. Girard scored on a one-yard
run with only :17 remaining in the
first half, making the score 14-0 at
halftime.

The second half was quite a differ-
ent game as Morales passed for 220
yards against the Generals’ defense
during the final two quarters.
Morales passed 63 yards to Lee Pride
for the Tigers’ first score less than
five minutes into the third quarter,
cutting the Generals’ lead to 14-7.

Morales drove his team 49 yards
for a touchdown on its first posses-
sion of the fourth quarter after
Thornton had suffered his only inter-
ception of the game. After complet-
ing passes of 19 and 18 yards, Mor-
ales threw four yards to David Pack
for a touchdown, evening the score at
14-14.

W&L's Gene Girard (34) hauls in a 43-yard bomb
from quarterback Jon Thornton to set up the Generals

W&L freshman Jeff Harwood
broke through the line and blocked a
punt on Sewanee’s next possession.
Chris Bleggi recovered the ball at the
Tigers’ nine-yard line. After three
plays had netted only three yards,
White kicked the game-winning field
goal, giving the Generals a 17-14 lead
with 5:23 remaining in the game.

The Tigers made one last attempt
to win the game, and came a bit too
close for comfort. Sewanee drove
from its own 22-yard line to the Gen-
erals’ 29 before W&L strong safety
Tim Janyska intercepted a Morales’
pass with 3:25 remaining in the
game. W&L was able to run out the
clock after the interception.

Thornton had his second consecu-
tive 200-yard passing game, complet-
ing nine of 18 passes for 210 yards.
Girard rushed for 60 yards on 21 car-
ries and caught two passes for 76

yards.

Morales completed 15 of 33 tosses
for 267 yards and two touchdowns.
W&L improved its record to 3-4 with
the win, while Sewanee dropped to
0-6.

“We were lucky to get out of that
game with a 17-14 win,’’ W&L head
coach Gary Fallon said. ‘‘The block-
ed punt was, obviously, a key to our
victory, and the field goal, from a
tough angle, was a clutchkick.

“Jon Thornton had a great day
throwing the ball,” Fallon said. ‘He
has shown he can complete the bomb,
which has opened some opportunities
for the offense.”

W&L faces Old Dominion Athletic
Conference opponent Bridgewater
(1-5) this week at Bridgewater.

“They will pose the same kind of
problems to us as Sewanee,” Fallon
said, ‘They have a good passing
team anda good running back.”’

W&L defeated Bridgewater 42-7
last year but has lost to the Eagles
the last two times it has traveled to

The Ring-tum Phi

 

Bridgewater.

“The biggest thing we’re concern-
ed about is that we don’t get compla-
cent,’”’ Fallon said. ‘‘We’ve learned
about that the hard way in the past at
Bridgewater.”’

“It is their Parents’ Weekend, so I
know they will be zapped up to play
us,” Fallon said. ‘They have nothing
to lose. If we’re not ready, it will be a
long afternoon.”’

Bridgewater head coach John
Spencer said that W&L is a better
team than its record indicates.

“After looking at them on film, I
think that they have a pretty good

second touchdown in Saturday's 17-14 victory over the
University of the South.

team,”’ Spencer said. ‘“‘They have
three good running backs in Girard,
Surface and Weaver, and Thornton is
a threat. The things they do best on
offense are our weaknesses.”’

“I anticipate W&L playing well
against us because they see us, Sam-
ford and Lebanon Valley left on their
schedule. Their coaching staff and
players are looking at a 6-4 record,
which is very creditable.”’

“I don’t think there’s any chance of
us catching them unaware,’’ Spencer
said. ‘‘We’ll have to play as well as
we possibly can and be lucky in order
towin.”

 

&.

W&L cross country captain
Frank Pittman ran step for step
with Apprentice harrier Martin

 

 

Rockbridge Video Tape Center

with this coupon
only

$27.50
For VCR Rental plus 8 Movies.

Not good with other coupons
Offer good until November 15th.

   

 

       
    

 

 
 
 
 

   
  

_ Come and See

    
  

  

Juno

And
The

Paycock

—Sean O'Casey

 
   
    
     
 

An Irish Tragedy Starring
Broadway Actor Jarlath Conroy

 
 
  

  

Showing at University Theater October 2631
-all Shows start at 8:00pm

eratate terete tetetetetatetetetetetattaltetatatetetatetetatetatetetetetetetetetetetetetettatetatettetetstteteMatetetetetetetetetetetatetstetet0.%.0.9.8. 9.08008 eesesccesseees sees
orana' n'a" a5 8.8,0 0.0.0 8800.0 01818 0088s sls els e elelelslslslslslele cle s18 eltes ececererererecersusceveueveseretetete"e"e eters susreretetetetetetetetetatetetatetetetatets ete tetattatetatatetetatetetetetetatetetetetetetetatastate

  

 

fn ath tees

Nixon, Nixon came in first, but
Pittman’s effort paced the Gen-
erals to the team victory.

TLRS

  

October 25, 1984 Pages

.

Lao % &

? 2.9 »

Hockey is better.

ey

%,

than ‘Love Boat’:
a
....For all the mistakes the major Fee
TIME works’ programmers make, the brillig#
of the mind that decreed that p 4
OUT sional hockey doesn’t sell beats all. WE
sees sat through “Hello Larry” and other} »
~~, Since the mid-70s when the NHL as a weéie
By Mike ly sports event was discontinued. It’s-
Stachura time that the only perpetually exviti
sport be reinstated to at least the “ee

 

+

semiconscious state networks give NBA basketball doubleheaders
the Harlem Globetrollers at the OK Corral (They win all the time, anywd
how exciting is that?) . $
I realize the big fear of TV execs is that hockey won't make it. Well:
well. I wonder if these are the same people who were afraid to put contro
sial shows like M*A*S*H and All in the Family on the air. Or better yet; 2
were the same wits who bring us Finder of Lost Loves and The Love Boats
Seriously, hockey is worth the effort. I’m not saying the success will UR -
mediate or great or even there at all. Heck, maybe I like hockey becatis®
never see it. I mean how.else can you explain the great attention ABC pays $0 .
the team sport on ice every four years. Most people probably can’t, take
more than two weeks of the stuff...and only the highlights please, don’t wait ‘
to miss those ice dancing preliminaries. oe |
The point is hockey’s worth the effort. The winter is filled with nothing but |
basketball, sportsworld’s survival of the fittest competition, basketball, tRe -
Chunichi Cup Gymnastics championships and now, for something complege-
ly different, basketball. Nothing against Naismith’s game, but eight game§ a
weekend is a bit much, even if you live for Fiberglas and hardwood. A Stm-
day afternoon or better a Sunday evening of ice hockey might be a nice
diversion. co
It’s got to be better than repeats of The Jeffersons...

“6: fe. eS

....Back down on the Colonnade, a little pep talk may have helped. A 17-34
escape is better than a 21-17 mistake. Obviously, But a win should lend.the
Generals some confidence. (Emphasis on “‘should’”’) Bridgewater boaststa
quarterback and a 1-6 mark. Sounds familiar (like last week). Liked the so¢-
cer's team win up north over the weekend. The team’s a bunch of scrappers.
Would like them to go ‘‘once more with feeling” this weekend at UNC-
Greensboro...Only thing close to the cross country team right now is the NE]
team from Miami, and that’s a matter of conjecture....

*£ eee

 

«dod

*

 

.... Speaking of Dolphins, Mr. Marino is having an exceptional year. But pis
cast of help is at least as important as his throwing arm. Basically, his 1984
brilliance is the result of building confidence. He feels he can do anything
and his teammates concur, and together they’re making him the greatest .
thing since margarine. Still waiting for the Floridians to be tested. Point is, |
may have to wait until next season....

7
....So they (the WBC) took away Hagler’s title. And, pray tell, what does
that mean? Hagler doesn’t care. He is, in the minds of those who count, fhe
only middleweight champion. As well, Hagler is all but set for a date in the
ring with perpetual bridesmaid Thomas Hearns. Hearns has no chance. He's
good but good’s not going to get you past the only middleweight champion. .
....A college note: the Huskies are about as undeserving a top-ranked te&m
that there ever was. A total offensive output of 109 yards is one thing, but ,
against the Oregon Ducks? C’mon.....

...Finally, speaking of college football, I thought I heard a roar from the
south late Saturday afternoon. Checking the scoreboard, I located the noise
as emanating from Knoxville, Tenn. (Read: Neyland Stadium). You see, the:
Vols scored 18 points in the fourth, including a game-winning two-point-¢on-
version, and when 96,008 people who like to wear orange watch their boys
oa despicable Tide they like to let you know about it. It is a good game,
isn’t it?

Oh, by the way, Centre’s not in Tennessee despite my repeated attempts
to relocate it...)

‘

 

 

 

}

Harriers continue ‘Tour,’ now 9-(

 

By STEVE GREENEBAUM
Staff Reporter
The Generals’ “Victory. Tour’

stormed through Lexington Satur-
day, dancing past Newport News Ap-
prentice and doing encore perfor-
mances for West Virginia Tech and
Bridgewater College. Winning the
quadrangular meet, the Generals’

record moved to 9-0, well in first
place of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference.

Martin Nixon of Newport News
Apprentice won the race in 27:46
followed by Frank Pittman (28:08) of
Washington and Lee. This was the
fourth straight week that Pittman led
the Generals, and for the first three
miles it looked as if Pittman could

 

 

 

Georgetown University
Law Center

will be on campus to talk with interesed
students between 1:00pm and 5:00pm in

the University Center on Friday Oct. 26.

 

 

 

 

Ky SAY CHEESE

 

GET THE
PICTURE?

 

K
3

 

IN OUR DELI,
y WE HAVE A VARIETY
OF GREAT CHEESES.

110 S. Jefferson Street © Lexington, VA 24450

have won the meet. “

“He (Nixon) made a surge ofr the
flat. I didn’t go with him and fel
behind,” said Pittman. v

Behind Pittman were five "ror
Generals, Eddie Guandry (28:22),
Ted Myers (28:36), David Andrews
(28:38), Richard Moore (29:3P)}*aned
Ron Moody (29:48), a sight that
brought a smile to coach Dick: Mil
ler’s face. oftee

“I thought we ran well,’’said
Miller. ‘It was our first and:-‘oniy
meet on our own course and’ the
team, as a whole, ran well.:-Lt, was
nice to see the spread from our first
finisher to our fifth finisher was the
closest all season.”’ The spread was
1:33. }

One Bridgewater runner said*that
his team thought about wearing fom
bat boots, hoping they would ‘help
them out on Washington and Bee's
five-mile course. It was appdren!
that Bridgewater (1-9) fell apaft or
hills, suchas ‘‘Telegraph Hill.*;

“Telegraph is the biggest hill 1’v¢
ever run in my life,’ said Washirgton
and Lee freshman Richard Mporé
Moore has been consistently ope o!
the top five Washington and ‘Le fin
ishers all season, and is one of’ the
biggest additions to this year.sjeam

This week the Generals willxeturn
to Hampden-Sydney Collegé-}r an
important ODAC quadrangulatymeet
versus the Tigers (4-0), EastéeieMon
nonite (12-6-1) and Liebe Co
lege (9-1-1). “a

rtant

ear

“This will be our most i
test. Lynchburg seems to be th
to beat,”’ said Miller. Miller hag also
been reminding his team it hagto do
well at Hampden-Sydney this*week
before it can worry about the @DAC
championships in only two Weeks
The team has been putting sPeciay
emphasis on speed training, this
week, preparing for Hampden
Sydney’s flat course. * »

“Being used to the flat courges i!
Texas, I love the Hampden-Sydney
course,’’ said Moore. ‘‘Not enoagh

want to go to school there, but Pili!

 

 

 

 

just the same.” ;
Student Rental House

Available

Call 463-4627”

 
rhe Ring-tum Phi, October 25, 1984, Page 5

 

 

.W&L goalie Charlie Groh makes a save in Saturday’s
loss to league-leader Richmond. The Generals will go

into the league
seed.

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ringtum Phi

championships as the number two

Richmond remains only thorn in
polo side as showdown nears

The Washington and Lee water
bolo team continues to roll along,
‘make the necessary adjustments,
and, above all, win.

- The Generals won four of five con-
tests in the Southern League Tourna-
‘ifient held at Cy Twombly Pool last
weekend, dropping only an 11-2 deci-
sion against the league’s best team,
tichmond. The tournament decided
the seedings for the Southern League
Championships to be held in Rich-
Ynond Nov. 2-4.

W&L (now 14-11-1) beat UNC-
Chapel Hill, 19-3, U.Va., 10-1, UNC-
"Wilmington, 12-5, and South Car-
olina, 144.

“We have been making some ad-
justments to our offense, and we are
making some mistakes. But on the

Kickers upset touted Messiah, .

whole I would say that I am very
pleased with the way we are play-
ing,’ water polo mentor Page
Remillard said.

“Some of our freshmen had a
rough time against Richmond, but
they bounced back the next day and
helped us to two more victories.
Richmond has a lot of experience and
a good bench. We were just beat by a
better team that day.”’

The Generals will have another op-
portunity to meet the Spiders, when
the teams square off against each
other in the Southern League Cham-
pionships. Richmond, which went
through the tournament undefeated,
will be seeded first. With the Rich-
mond loss, W&L will be second seed
in Richmond.

W&L is the defending Southern
League Champion, and winner of the
conference crown the last three
years. In 1983, Richmond had beaten
W&L three times prior to the final of
the championships, when the Gene-
rals were able to turn the tide with a
7-4 upset of the Spiders.

Richmond has won the first two
games this year, taking the first
meeting in the Virginia State Cham-
pionships, 148.

‘‘We must continue to improve dur-
ing the next two weeks, and must
work on our man-advantage situa-
tions. We have next weekend off, and
I am giving the team the time off to
rest up for the championships,”
Remillard said.

to face No. 1 UNC-Greensboro

By MICHAEL McALLISTER
and CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporters

“The Washington and Lee soccer
team defeated Messiah College in a
3-4) upset victory Saturday. Messiah
College, described as one of the re-
gion’s best soccer teams, played in
last year’s NCAA soccer tournament.

: Head coach Rolf Piranian attrib-
uted the victory to aggressive de-
fensive play, highlighted by the ef-
forts of goalie Chris Gareis and full-
back Chip Landis. Gareis made 12
saves in the course of play to tally his
third shutout of the season. Gareis
now has a goals against average un-
der one.

The team’s three goals were scored
by John Templeton, Peter Von Son
4nd Bill Holmes. Templeton
gonverted a throw-in for the first tal-
ly, giving the Generals a 1-0 halftime
advantage. Von Son scored in the sec-
and half on a shot directly in front of
the goal, and Bill Holmes added a
third goal off a corner kick.

     

 

. Southern
t Inn

"Welcome

A Students

Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

i

; 50 years
* Main Street, Lexington

 

       

 

 

“I’m proud of the way the team has
bounced back,’’ Coach Piranian said.
The team had lost its last three con-
tests. But Piranian said the team has
no chance of getting into the Division
III National Championships because
of the previous losses.

Piranian said the Generals still
have a shot at taking the Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference title. Their
3-1 conference record puts them in
second place now, and if conference
leader Lynchburg loses its upcoming
game and the Generals are able to
beat Roanoke Oct. 30, W&L and

3 Free Movies

pocc-cl--

16 W. Washington Street

Video Director

— Coupon—

when you rent a VCR or Disc
Player for 1 day or longer.

-Deposit required

— one Gee ee oe ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eg eee

Lynchburg will have the same con-

ference record.

Saturday, the Generals will travel
to North Carolina where they will put
their 5-5 record on the line against the
nation’s No. 1-ranked Division III
aquad, UNC-Greensboro. UNC-
Greensboro is the two-time defending
NCAA national champion.

‘We hope to give UNC-Greensboro
the same kind of game as we gave
Messiah,” Piranian said. He said he
felt the Generals have the potential to
come up with another big win.

   

463-9566

 

 

Conroy

Schmidt

 

() Continued from Page |
this is one of the major purposes of
the theater anywhere.”

Conroy said his major goal tor
being an actor-in-residence here is to
provide a role mode! for the students

“It works by example at the theat-
er here,’’ he said. ‘‘More of the learn-
ing comes through osmosis than
anything else. People get a chance to
observe what I do and it may inspire
some or it may not touch others at
all.”

“Ultimately,’’ he added, ‘“‘being
here provides a chance for an en
counter which can be enlightening.”

“Yet every time I come to a new
part, I always learn things, too. It’s
interesting to me to learn how differ-
ent people can achieve the same
thing from different approaches,”
Conroy said.

Conroy said not many things irri-
tate him.

‘What I do find irritating,’ he add-
ed, ‘‘is people wasting an opportunity
to experience something new. One
must assume by their presence that
this is something they want. It’s
strange when they don't pursue it.”’

“T haven't been asked enough ques-
tions in this situation by the stu-
dents,” he said. ‘‘I would love to be
asked questions about how they
might achieve some of their goals.

“IT would like to be asked more
often how they would like to arrive at
where they want to.”’

Conroy said his most dangerous
role was in the film, ‘‘Heaven’s
Gate.”

“It was at times very dangerous,
and there were hundreds of extras.
While trying to survive one of the ma-
jor battle scenes, I fell under a horse.
Luckily, the animal stepped right
over me instead of on me.

“That was the day,’’ continued
Conroy, ‘‘that I just wanted to get out
alive.”

In discussing his ideal part; Con-
roy Said he could ‘‘get excited’’ over
Richard III or ‘‘that Scottish play.”’

Asked to explain “that Scottish
play,’ Conroy simply pointed to a
piece of paper with the name ‘‘Mac-
beth” on it.

“There is a superstition,’’ he add-
ed, and it’s referred to as ‘‘that Scot-
tish play’’ because it’s bad luck to
mention it at the theater unless it is in
production, and then you can’t avoid
it.

“If you mention ‘it’ in a dressing
room, you can be asked to go outside,
turn around three times, and spit.
Some actors I know are absolutely

serious about it.’’
shianacanioieaannéeahaasina mails

 

 

$12,800.00

1967 Porsche 912
1969 Porsche 911T (Gray)
$9,500.00 ;

console. $4,800.00

interior)
$18,800.00

1964 Porsche 366SC Cpe. (Gray) - Complete
Restoration, modified engine and suspension.

1964 Porsche 366SC Sunroof Cpe. (Brown)
“Recaro seats, GT gas tank, alloys. $14,800.00

| arga (Red) - Soft back win-
dow, 71,000 original miles. $15,800

> very nice car.

1972 Porsche 914 (Yellow) -5-speed. $8,600.00
1974 Porsche 914 (Green) - 5-speed, new tires,

1955 MG TF 1500 Roadster (Black/red
completely

1969 Jaguar 2 plus 2 Cpe. (Brown) -

| Continued from Page 1

are damaging European, Latin
American, African and Asian na-
tions.

“Only if you bring down the budget
deficit is there hope for decreasing
interest rates,’’ he said. He added
that if that were accomplished,
American industry would “once
again become competitive with the
rest of the world.”’

Schmidt urged the United States to
seize the initiative in leading Western
countries to solutions to global pro-
blems.

“It’s absolutely unlikely that
leadership will come from Japan in
this generation, so leadership has to
come from this country,’’ he said.
‘*You have ail the qualities — energy,
vitality, generosity and that quality
so indigestible for us Europeans, that
optimism of yours.”’

At a press conference yesterday
afternoon, Schmidt said an example
of the leadership that is needed in the
world today is former president
Richard M. Nixon.

‘‘However you evaluate his domes-
tic policies, from a European point of
view and a European point of inter-
est, as regards grand strategy, in our
eyes he was a great strategist,”’ he
said. ‘‘That was leadership.”’

He said he is asked at each stop on

his tour which of the two candidates
he favors in the presidential race. ‘‘I

 

always answer in the same fashion,
he said as the reporters listened in
tently.

“Tl always say I won't interfere ir
your American election. But if you
ask me about three times, I'll finally
say that I support Gerald Ford for
president.”’

Following the news conference,
Schmidt reviewed the Corps of Ca
dets at a dress parade such as the one
held at VMI each Friday. The 100
piece regimental band played the
German national anthem.

A VMI custodian who had been
working on the sound system remov
ed his baseball cap and placed it over
his heart as the American flag was
lowered.

A cadet cameraman and a sound
man walked along the side of the
field, recording the event. Apparent
ly out of habit, the two walked ir
perfect step with each other.

Accompanied by a 4-year-old gir!
two people from Rockbridge County
who said they come to the parades
each week to protest stood along th
sidelines holding a sign which reac’
“There is no way to peace. Peace is
the way.”

A VMI security guard told then
they could hold the sign but asked
them not to wave it. ‘‘They said it’s
special parade and they don’t want to
offend anybody,’’ Phil Hyre said
“It’s never been offensive before.”

Mirabai McLeod, the other sandal!
clad person holding the sign, said her
daughter ‘‘gets a kick out of the par
ade but she gets scared when the can
non goes off.”’

— By Mike Allen

Yearbook Pictures

of Underclassmen will be taken next week in
Room 206 of the Student Center (The Calyx Of-
fice, upstairs, above Fairfax Lounge)

The Hours will be:

Mon.—Fri. 9:00-12:00
1:00-4:30

Seniors may have their portraits taken FREE by
Andre Studios for Resume and Passport pur-

poses.

Please wear Coat and Ties

 

     
   
   
 
 
         
       
         
           
         
           
           

-PORSCHES-

design interior,
$44,500.00

‘MISCELLANEOUS VEHICLES-

1980 VW Scirocco (Black) - 4-speed
super

restored. with air,

$5,200.00

Offering An
Extensive Selection
of Imports

And Quality

1977 Porsche 911S (Green w-tan interior) -one
owner car, all original car. sunroof. $19,400.00
1979 Porsche 930 European Turbo (Silver) -3.3
Itr. 300 HP, Black interior. $38,500.00

1980 Porsche 911SC (Metallic Black) -Sunroof,
nice clean car. $23,500.00

1984 Porsche 944 (Saphire Blue) - 5-speed with all
options except sunroof. $24,800.00

1984 Porsche 928S (White) -Automatic, Porsche

1982 VW Rabbit convertible (Black

—The Calyx

  

 

Service

  

16°" Alloys, limited slip.

sound system.

Mon.-Sat. 11-5 — Closed Wednesday & Saturda Nice car. $14,500.00 /red_ interi
* 463-3612. : / 1969 Shelby (Red) - With all new trim $10,800.00" Untitled: car
i aiadclenaieaiiieaiaimineaiiiiaeaes tithes dtatatieiiin niall pieces, spare parts. $11,500.00 1984 Honda Accord LX (White)

     
        
    
    

          
 
    
 
       
 

1979 Datsun 280ZX (Silver)

New
Paint, 5-Speed w/air. $7,200.00

Loaded car. $11,221.00
1984 Honda CRX (White) - 5-speed,
fun to drive car. $7,995.00

¢We can provide you with any foreign car you want!

G6Xiii =ay ==
RY,

Motorwerkes, omen

“Ltd. ieee meee

ae set ak |

Herring Travel

LO

|

Announces

 

Join the
Revolution
in Red Roses

Cash and Carry

  

50% Discount
For Students

 

pe : (
anh cna “ =

pA - - * ra 7
— oe pie ocd

$9.99 On Piedmont 2939 West Main Street To THT Tit wi tl ool 1
1Doz. ... $15.99 Wavnesboro Ta TRA RTATL

1-703-463-2085

 

Call Now for details
463-2197

41 South Main St.

><>

| the

fferson

103. N. Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841

    

|
@

 

 

      

Acro

 

ss from Arby

><> >>> > S

’S

 

 

—-z
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 25, 1984

 

White

Continued from Page 1
charged that the public trial was attended by students’
dates, even though public trials are supposed to be open
only to members of the W&L community

White said that when he was informed of the decision,
he planned to drop out of the Law School, but he now
says he will try to complete his degree.

White acknowledged Tuesday that he has been a
controversial administrator, but he added that the
nature of his job, at a school with few minority students,
compels him to be controversial.

“If I wasn’t controversial, I wouldn't be doing my
job,’’ he said. ‘‘I think the record shows I've done a
competent job.”’

‘I’m deeply committed to what I think the University
should stand for,”’ he said, ‘‘which is probably one of the
reasons I’m in all the trouble I am.”’

“You've got to realize that there is a group of students
who came here for the very reason that there are few
minorities,’ White told the Law News.

‘Many of the white students here have never had to
deal with blacks as equals,” he said. ‘‘Their unen-
lightened attitude is difficult to overcome.”

For those reasons, White said, black students have
difficulty participating in a system dominated by
whites.

At its meeting Monday night, the EC decided not to
make a formal response to White’s statements, al-
though several informal remarks were made while the
committee discussed the article.

The committee decided to talk with black students in-
dividually and informally to gauge their opinions about

 

‘I don’t think it’s the position of an administrator to
say anything about the honor system that’s not in sup-
port of it," Secretary Sam Dalton said. He added that
Wilson advised the committee not to make an issue of
the article.

White said he felt able to comment on the honor
system because he is a law student under the jurisdic-
tion of the system.

He said the article is not about the John White who
lost a trial to the EC and wanted to get back at the com-
mittee. ‘ ‘It’ s about me losing confidence in a system I
believe in,’’ he said

He added that interviews with black students led him
to believe they feared the EC. He also said they felt that
budget allocations for the Student Association for Black
Unity hadn’t been fair in past years. SABU did not re-
quest funds from the EC this year.

White also said the honor system is the only system he
knows of in which the same people who investigate a
case try that case.

White’s dual role as administrator and student was
called into question during last spring’s public honor
trial, a pre-trial hearing which was marked by White’s
alleged attack on Green.

According to honor system rules, White was eligible
to serve as an advocate because he is enrolled as a stu-
dent, but Green, the senior law representative to the
EC, said White's position as an administrator could not
be ignored in such an incident.

The attack, which Green said included a blow to his
stomach and resulted in his landing on the floor, was
reported to the administration by Green and another
EC member, but no public action was taken against
White.

Saying he was a little shocked by Wilson’s decision,
White could not predict where he would find his next
job.

 

 

the article.

“‘T hadn’t anticipated not being here,”’ he said.

 

  
  

Sophomore John Rowe gets ready to give blood Tuesday.

219 donate at blood drive Tuesday

 

By JON THORNTON
Staff Reporter

Whether it was the first time, or as
in the case of Anne De Vogt the 32nd
time, 219 members of the Washington
and Lee community participated in
the American Red Cross Blood-
mobile Tuesday at Doremus Gym.

DeVogt, wife of business adminis-
tration Professor John DeVogt, said
she gave blood for the first time when
she was in college to help her sorority

‘to get 100 percent participation.

The bloodmobile, sponsored by Chi
Psi fraternity surpassed the goal of
150 units and exceeded last year’s
total of 207 units. ‘This was the best
year by far,”’ said Tim Considine, a

Chi Psi member and major organizer
of the drive. Henry Dewing, presi-
dent of the fraternity, attributed the
outstanding participation to the in-
creased publicity on campus and

  
 

  
   
  

eGourmet Cookware

    
  

 

——

HODGE PODGE

Food, Specialty and Gift Shop

——

A
eee

Pizza Hut

around the Lexington community.

‘“There’s been a big turnaround,”
Dewing commented. He went on to
explain that the Red Cross had near-
ly dropped the W&L Community four
years earlier because of a lack of in-
volvement. The bloodmobile exper-
ience is not new to Dewing. Andy De-
wing, his older brother, revitalized
W&L’s interest in the blood donation
program.

Dewing said the awarding of kegs
to fraternities with the highest par-
ticipation also was a factor in spark-
ing interest. The ROTC captured one
keg with a total number of 37 mem-
bers participating. The fraternity
that had the highest percentage of
participation has not yet been deter-
mined. Chi Psi and Sigma Chi donat-
ed the kegs to the blood drive.

People gave various reasons for
donating blood. A number of people,
such as freshman Wyatt Bassett,

116 North Main Street
703-463-3683
New Christmas Shipment

In the 'V’ where Main and Jefferson meet-close to W&l and VMI
Calendars @

eCuisinarts
imported and domestic beers and wines

Soups
eJewelry eCandy

Discount on Special Orders
Also store in Wintergreen

 

Open 10 a.m. to5 p. mM. Monday thru Saturday

oe...

NOW

Delivers!!

$2 OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA

Or $1 off any medium. Hurry, this offer expires soon.

Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon per party
per delivery at participating Pizza Hut’ Special Delivery units
Not valid for dine-in or carryout, or in conjunction with any
other Pizza Hut’ offer. 1/20¢ redemption value. ¢ 1984,
Pizza Hut, Inc. Limited Delivery Area.

Offer good only on regular prices through

463-7000

11-15-84

et att atta etna ta a te tata tate tat in ttn intiedtadiatindiad

@ Aprons

600 E. Nelson
Lexington, Va. DELIVERY

ne

Ly

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

said they gave blood because it was
“easy’’ and that they felt they were
‘doing some good.”’

Junior Rick Zahn, who said he was
somewhat concerned that he was
going to pass out, calmly started that
he was giving blood because ‘‘it’s
something todo.”

“T feel that I’m doing something
worthwhile and besides, I don’t feel
so bad about taking an hour off from
studying,” he said. ‘‘The free lunch is
pretty good, too.”’

Libby Atthowe, executive secre-
tary of the Rockbridge area Red

‘Cross Chapter, said that the units of

blood will be distributed to 38
hospitals in the region. Atthowe also
said that this year’s drive had gone
more smoothly than _ previous
bloodmobiles when men had ‘‘passed
out at the typewriter while giving the
typist their names.”’

eCards eGifts *Toys

    
 

SPECIAL
LIVE:
—
Hut.

FREE

   

Ee eee SSS See eee

   

   
 

 

Maurice Leach

Leach

() Continued from Page 1

 

professors and teaching professors
teaching jointly,’ he said. ‘‘More
than that, it makes the student a free
agent in the world of finding informa-
tion. He’s not beholden to somebody
else.”’

With students, the most popular
aspect of library services is the 24-
hour schedule, which runs ‘‘a real
close race” with locked carrels, be
said.

Leach said ‘‘any administration is
going to have moments of frustration
— and sometimes plenty of them.”

“T’ve always enjoyed my work so
much that the frustrations have not
left a scar or a vivid memory,” he
said. ‘‘A good administrator expects
the frustrations, deals with them and
then moves forward rather than
backward.”

Leach said there has been some
staff turnover under his administra-
tion, but said that “‘like in anything
where there are a lot of people, there
is going to be a variety of movements
of people.”’

“It’s not unreasonable to say that
75 percent of the people who have left

here have moved on to positions of
even greater magnitude than the
ones they held here,”’ he said.

“‘T like to think that we're a feeder
for the profession, and that’s a good
reputation to have,”’ he continued

“‘When we seek a new member of
the staff, we frequently look at people
who are young in their careers and
offer them the challenge of meeting.a
major responsibility,’ he said,
“After that, they may move on to a
position of even greater responsibili-
a= #
He called his staff ‘‘very strong”
and said it felt “attached to the in-
stitution.”

Leach said the part of his job he’ll
miss the most is ‘‘the contact with
students and the chance to chat with
them.”

He said he’ll spend most of next
year studying Friends of the Library
programs at other institutions. He
said he may travel in the spring, but
it’s more likely to be to the British
Isles than to the Middle East.

“T've been a refugee from there
twice in my life and twice is enough,”
he said.

“A program like this is a marve-
lous boon to a library,’’ said Devel-

opment Director Farris P. Hotch- *

kiss. ‘‘A great library is built not just
on gifts of money, but also on price-
less collections of volumes.”’

EC says pledge not always

By PAUL FOUTCH
News Editor

After discussing the strength of the
Honor System at the Law School, the
Executive Committee decided not to
require law students to sign the honor
pledge on assignments other than
finalexams.

Law representatives Gordy Ham-
mock and James Crutchfield said
that law students regularly sign the
pledge only on the final exam of a
class, and not on papers or assign-
ments turned in during the term.

“‘T don’t think there’s any point in
it,’’ Crutchfield said.

EC President Cole Dawson said the
pledge is used to reinforce the Honor
System on a daily basis, but Ham-
mock said that law students would
not take kindly to being told to pledge
all their work.

“It’s my advice to leave that thing
alone,’’ Hammock said.

Dawson agreed, recalling upper-
class law students’ reluctance last
year to sign honor cards, which say a
student understands and agrees to
abide by the Honor System, after it
was discovered that some of them did
not sign the cards when they first ar-
rived at W&L,

“T think everybody does their own
work over there, basically,’’ Ham-
mock said.

Crutchfield said he had trouble de-
fining what constitutes an honor
violation with regard to talking about
assignments.

“It seems extreme to bring some-
one up on an honor charge for saying,
‘This is really hard,’ ‘‘ Crutchfield
said.

“That’s a problem every year,”
Hammock said. ‘‘I don’t think they-
re cheating.”’

necessary for law students

\

The committee also decided to use '

the wording of the pledge found in the
White Book for posters to be placed in
classrooms telling students the form
of the pledge.

In other action, White announced
that the EC is planning to put the
$7,000 in the EC’s reserve fund, which
is used to bail out student organiza-
tions that overrun their budgets, into

~,.

a money market fund at 11 percent -

interest toraise about $385.
“There’s a major roadblock in that

Vie

the Business Office says they don’t -
really want to deal with it because ,

it’s too much trouble,’”’ White said.
He said that he will talk with Presi-
dent Wilson today ‘‘to get him to pull
some strings.”’

White said that the extra money
would be used for some of the organ-
izations that the EC thinks deserves

more money than was allocated to *

them last month.

 

Trustees

(©) Continued from Page 1

 

athletic facilities to accomodate
women students and plans for the
new dormitory, which is scheduled to
be completed by the fall of 1987.

The Planning and Development
Committee also will review the res-
ponse of alumni to the coeducation
decision as expressed financially and
in communications with the school.

The board will consider a number
of subjects other than coeducation.

The recently formed Campus Life
Committee will be briefed by Dean of
Students Lewis G. John and Asso-
ciate Dean of Students Dan N. Mur-
phy about the new University rules
governing parties and this fall’s
fraternity Rush.

The committee will also receive a
status report about the Drug Policy
Review Committee, which began
work last month. The trustees direc-

ted in May that the committee be
formed in response to recommenda-
tions from the special grand jury that
investigated local drug trafficking
earlier this year.

The Academic Affairs Committee
will take an in-depth look at the
English department as part of its
regular review of the different dis-
ciplines, and the Budget and Audit
Committee will assess the implica-
tions for the University of recent
changes in federal tax law.

The Planning and Development
Committee will he updated about the
$450,000 computerized telephone sys-
tem that was installed this summer.

The Investment Committee will
consider how to use two major re-
quests recently received by the
University.

The school received $1.3 million
from the estate of Ruth Parmly, who
died in May, and Wilson said Col.
John H. Tucker Jr., who died in late
summer, left the school approxima-
tely $2.5 million.

“When gifts of that size are not

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers
11 W. Nelson St.

J SHERIDAN
R. SHERIDAN

Watches and

463-2022

Jeweiry Repairs

Gifts for All Occasions
We have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.

Fragen naggepeagerne 847 OO) 54 OL,

0] 0

CORNER **——

117 West Nelson Street

seriously.

ee ee ee

~

Lexington, Virginia

 

ee a i Ve a | | | a | a) a Se aU CP | ee | ae ee

THEY TRUST US

It’s true. This year alone W&L law students have trusted us to produce several
thousand of their professional quality resumes and cover letter/envelope sets.

There’s a lot hanging on a law student’s job search documents.

We'll take yours seriously too.

We’re PERFECT PRESENTATIONS.

Give us a call.
463-6749

ee

designated for any particular pur- ,

poses, it comes before the board,
which decides the best way to utilize

it,” said Development Director Far- ,

ris P, Hotchkiss.

“It’s a rare person who is suffi- ‘

ciently interested in the institution to
share so much of their wealth with

the school, and on top of that to ac- *

cord the trustees the privilege to use
it at their discretion,’’ he said.

Hotchkiss said Parmly had prev- *

iously given the University $1.5
million in memory of her father.

*

Parmly Hall was subsequently nam- *
ed in his honor. She also gave the .
school $500,000 as part of its develop- :

ment program.

“She decided, even though she'd
had no prior relation to the universi-
ty, to memorialize her father here,”
he said.

a

Hotchkiss said Tucker, who gradu-

ated from W&L in 1910 and lived in
Shreveport, La., was ‘“‘one of this
country’s
lawyers.”

truly distinguished —

“He developed a reputation for -

being able to work in the original
French version of the Napoleonic
Code, which Louisiana law is based
on,” he said. ‘“‘Very few lawyers can
work in a technical way in the literal
French version.”

The trustees will have lunch tomor-
row at the new student activities pav-
ilion.
being installed this week.

The Mondoflex floor is -

Wilson said Tom Wolfe, the promi- ~
nent author who was elected to the -

board in 1983, has indicated he will
attend the meeting this weekend to °
be sworn in as a trustee.

=

 

THE ULTIMATE ROLL

-Virginia Women
-Killington, VT
-Luxury Travel
-Special Parties

Help us sponsor your
school’s winter break
ski trip and ski free!

>—EOGV foo

(800) 542-8003 TOLL FREE

 

 

 

We take them

RT ER or AR ee In a

"F

*.

a

*

~

AA A AA < ) AR < ) ASAD <> ARTES <<

al
