   
   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VOLUME 84, NUMBER 10

It Figures
Computing
at W&L

 

 

a

 

General
Notes

 

Squash Club meets

The Squash Club will meet
tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 111 of
the Student Center. Members and
all those interested in joining
should attend.

Students vs. faculty

All students and faculty in-
terested in discussing student-
faculty relations should meet with
Dr. David Parker and senior Bill
Joel in the Alumni House at 3 p.m.
on Monday, Nov. 12, through
Thursday, Nov. 15.

‘The longest party’

Beginning Nov. 11, the Super-
dance Committee will be meeting
each Sunday at7 p.m. in Room 114
of the Student Center. These
meetings are open to all subcom-
mittee members, dancers and
others interested in working on
the “longest party.”’

Colloquium Friday

A math colloquium on ‘‘Super-
computers and Numerithms’’ will
be presented by James M. Ortega,
chairman of the department of ap-
plied mathematics at the Univer-
sity of Virginia, tomorrow at 3
p.m. in Robinson 21.

Legal Ethics talk

Judge Randall T. Bell of the

.| South Carolina Court of Appeals

will lecture tomorrow at 8 p.m. on
“The Lawyer as Gatekeeper:

.| Ethical Dilemmas.” His lecture,

in the Moot Courtroom of Lewis

| Hall, is part of this. weekend's
.| Legal Ethics Institute.

| Beaucoup de films

“They Don’t Wear Black Tie,” a

1981 film directed by Brazilian
‘| Leon Hirszman, will be shown by
«| the Film Society Friday and

Saturday. Screenings will be at 8

‘| p.m. both evenings in Classroom

A of Lewis Hall. Admission is free
to the film, which is in Portugese
with English subtitles.

“Shadows of Forgotten

} Ancestors”’ will be shown as part

of the Russian-Language Feature
Film Series tonight at 7:30 p.m. in
Commerce School 327.

“Henry V”’ will be presented by
the English Department Tuesday
at7 p.m. and 9 p.m. in Reid 203.

‘“‘An Enemy of the People’ will
be shown as part of the Politics
Film Festival Wednesday, Nov.
14, and Thursday, Nov. 15, at 7
p.m. in Commerce School 327.

“Grand Prix,” starring James
Garner, a film about the fast-
paced life of drivers on the Grand
Prix race circuit, will be shown by
the Student Activities Board at 8
p.m. Friday, Saturday and Sun-
day in du Pont Auditorium. Ad-
mission is $1.50.

Pianist to perform

Pianist Leon Bates will give a
concert in Lee Chapel at 8 p.m.
Monday as the third presentation
of Washington and Lee’s Concert
Guild series.

Quartet here

The Rockbridge Concert-
Theatre Series will present the
Audubon Quartet in Lee Chapel
Wednesday at 8:15 p.m.

Calyx pix info

Seniors are reminded to sign up
in the co-op for their senior Calyx
pictures if they have not already

done so. Photo sessions will con-
tinue through Nov. 16.
Why not?

Do you want better attendance
at your meetings? More partici-
pation in activities and events?

Why not advertise them — for
free — in “General Notes’’?

All you have to do is fill out a
“General Notes’’ request form
available from the career infor-
mation stand outside Carole Chap-
pel’s office. The form must be
turned in to The Ring-tum Phi
box, upstairs in the Student
Center, by 1 p.m. Tuesday of the
week you would like your
“General Note”’ to appear.

Any University organization or
any group sponsoring an event
open to W&L students may adver-
tise its activity in ‘General Notes.

 

 

Page 8

 

Your Weekend Weather

 

 

Temperatures in the 60s;
Chance of showers Sat.

 

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

NOV 9

re A
es

 

Samford

snared

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

{
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

RM HHH ERK EEHEHEEEHRHEEKHEHRHEHEHKKE SE

 

This poster congratulating the opposition went up late
Tuesday night at Lexington Democratic party head-

her

This Frans

Streets.

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

quarters, at the intersection of Washington and Main

Won’t give up 6th, GOP says

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Chief Editor

Although the Democratic incum-
bent handily retained Virginia’s 6th
Congressional District in Tuesday’s
election, Republican leaders and
others said yesterday the party will
continue its drive to recapture the
longtime GOP stronghold.

Retired business executive James
R. Olin, who in 1982 became the first
Democrat since the days of President
Harry Truman to hold the seat, de-
feated Republican Ray L. Gar-
land 53 percent to 47 percent dis-
trictwide and 63 percent to 37 per-
cent in Lexington.

A number of sources yesterday
said Garland was a weak candidate
who mounted an ineffective cam-
paign against a popular, politically
astute incumbent.

Inan interview, Garland attributed
his defeat to incumbent advantage, a

hostile press and the fact that he has
‘been around too long.”

The sources said Republicans will
likely have a better chance of recap-
turing the seat in the next presiden-
tial election year than they will in
1986.

“That is a Republican seat, and
we're going to keep targeting it until
we get it back,” said Edward Goes,
director of the National Republican
Congressional Committee’s cam-
paign division. ‘We're going after it
in ’86 and ’88 and '90 and we'll keep at
it until we win.”

Olin broke the 28-year GOP lock on
the Shenandoah Valley district dur-
ing the 1982 midterm elections in
which Republicans lost 26 House of
Representatives seats. The national
party had hoped the Virginia slot
could be regained this week.

“Tt was one of our many targets,”
Goes said. “We did full funding
—$48,000 to $49,000. It’s a Republican

Hot and cold

Rompin’ with Ron and rollin’ with Olin

 

By PAULFOUTCH
News Editor

district— look at the margins of Pres-
ident Reagan and Senator Warner.”’

Ronald Reagan garnered 67 per-
cent of the 6th District vote, and John
Warner received 74 percent of the
vote.

“There were likely to be coattails
there,” he said of the Garland race.
“But they had some problems. They
got a late start, they had a change of
managers that threw the campaign
off stride and the campaign got
rather negative.”’

University of Virginia political
science professor Larry Sabato, a

well-known expert on state: politics,

said that despite Garland’s loss, he
was helped by Reagan’s popularity.

“I think he would have lost by a
much larger margin without the
coattails,’ he said. ‘‘Tracking polls
suggest the race was not as close as it
turned out to be.”’

State Republican Chairman Don-
0 See Sixth, Page 3

didn’t carry over to the congressional races, especially
here in Virginia.”

“It was a little disappointing that we didn’t pick up

 

Washington and Lee students who attended their
political parties’ victory celebrations Tuesday night de-
scribed contrasting events that demonstrate very clear-
ly the political leanings of the W&L student body.

The College Republicans, a campus organization with
about 250 members, paid for transportation and rooms
for 10 members to attend the Virginia Republican cele-

bration in Richmond.

“It was just a big party,’’ said senior Scott Tilley, the
executive director of the state College Republicans. He
said about 3,000 people attended the celebration, at the
Richmond Marriott,which included tables of food and

four open bars.

In sharp contrast, some of the members of the Young
Democrats, a campus organization with about 25 mem-
bers walked to the local Democratic Headquarters on

Washington Street Tuesday night.

“By the time people had gotten there,” club Vice
President Everett Hamilton said of the celebration,
“they really didn’t have much hope”’ for the presiden-

tial race.

Both Tilley and Murphy said the congressional races
held most people’s interest, because the presidential
race was called so early by the television networks.

“A lot of people were jubilant at the presidential re-
sults,’’ Tilley said, ‘‘but were also disappointed. that it

 

said.

the Sixth and Ninth Congressional Districts,’’ W&L Col-
lege Republican executive director Michael Shelton

Democrats Jim Olin and Frederick Boucher defeated
their Republican challengers in those races, which re-
ceived more attention from the celebrants at Demo-
cratic Headquarters.

“They were more concerned with the senate and con-

gressional races than the presidential one,’’ Young De-

mocrat President Jim Murphy said.

In Richmond, the party hit its highest point when Sen.
John Warner made his acceptance speech after his op-
ponent, Democrat Edythe Harrison, conceded the race.

On the stage with Warner were former Gov. John Dal-

ton and possible candidates for next year’s governor
race in Virginia, Tilley said.
“It was interesting to see all the handshaking and

campaigning that was going on for next year,”’ Tilley

said.

The party gave Tilley ‘‘red, white and blue shivers up
your spine,’’ he joked.

But Tilley did have one complaint about the party.

hotinthere.”’

 

90%

 

80%

— winning

“The ballroom was packed,’’ he said. ‘It was really

Not so for the Young Democrats.
“There was no heat in the building,’’ Murphy said,
“‘andit was cold.”

Area voters support —
candidates —

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

70%

 

 

 

 

  

60%

 

50%
40%

 

 

 

30%

   

  

 

 

 

Reagan

 

 

Total vote

 

Mondale | Warner

Harrison | Garland

Olin

 

HII Vote in Rockbridge County, Lexington and Buena Vista

 

 

 

HHH HERE KH EEHEEHEHHEKEHKHKE EH &

ete teee rr cee nee nee rernteneenr snes fete cone

 

Calendar

 

NOVEMBER 8, 1984

changed

to please coaches

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

The beginning of classes next year
has been moved to Sept. 16, a week
later than approved by the faculty
last month, according to Dean of the
College John W. Elrod.

With “‘only a few dissenting votes,’’
the faculty Monday agreed to change
the 1985-86 academic calendar it
originally approved in order to leave
room for two weeks of classes be-
tween Thanksgiving vacation and
semester exams.

“Tam very pleased with the facul-
ty’s decision,”’ said Athletic Director
William D. McHenry. McHenry led
his department’s effort to get a
reconsideration of the earlier vote,
which produced a calendar that
would have forced the cancellation or
rescheduling of at least four basket-
ball games and a major eight-team
wrestling tournament hosted by
W&L.

Under the former calendar, the
normal two-week gap between the
end of Thanksgiving break and the
start of exams would have been
shortened to one week. The calendar
approved Monday would reinstate
the two-week gap with Dec. 20 as the
last day for final exams.

Freshmen orientation will begin
Sept. 9, and matriculation for up-
perclassmen is set for Sept. 13.

“The case for the athletic depart-
ment,” Elrod said, ‘‘was made
clearer to the faculty, I think, in
terms of the number of athletic
events involved and the planning re-
quired for these events, especially

“the wrestling tournament, and this

helped the faculty to vote for the
change.

“‘T think it became clearer that the
one week between the break and the

start of exams was, pedagogically,
less than acceptable. I think the
faculty made the right decision.”’

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson, an advocate of
the former calendar, said she ex-
pects some staff will have to work
through the Christmas-New Year’s
holiday, a week the University is nor-
mally closed.

Harold S. Head, who as University
Registrar is in charge of a number of
people who will have to work through
the holidays, said the new calendar
“hurts a lot of little people.’’ He said
he hopes to give the administrative
personnel a week off at some other
time in the year, and Elrod said some
special compensation would be pro-
vided for the clerks and secretaries
who have to work during the holi-
days.

McHenry acknowledged that the
administrative staff ‘‘will be under
some pressure, and for that, I’m tru-
ly sorry.”

“But,” he said, ‘‘I believe the new
calendar makes sense for the
students.”

Head basketball coach Verne D.
Canfield said he was ‘‘extremely
pleased’’ with the faculty’s decision
and felt the result showed that the
faculty was “‘cognizant of the student
inits decision.”

“It was very surprising and very
pleasing,” he said. ‘‘I think it was a
case of the faculty having all the
facts. I believe it was a very positive
decision.”’

In related action, Elrod said Presi-
dent John D. Wilson proposed that, in
the future, calendars be approved
two years in advance.

“It is easier to undo a mistake two
years in advance that it is only one
year inadvance,”’ Elrod said.

Drug, arson suspects
question Read action

Two former Virginia Military In-
stitute cadets, one who was indicted
this fall for drug distribution and the
other who was arrested this fall for
arson, have charged that Common-
wealth’s Attorney Beverly C. ‘‘John’’
Read is guilty of violating the princi-
ple of lawyer-client confidentiality.
Read denies the allegation.

The two, who left VMI without
graduating, say that when they met
with Read in his role as a private at-
torney, he gained information about
drug-related matters that he then
passed on to the special grand jury
that investigated local drug traffick-
ing earlier this year.

Jeffrey R. Pack, 23, made the
charge in a motion for dismissal of
his case that was filed Thursday in
Rockbridge County Circuit Court. He
was indicted Sept. 4 on six counts of
selling psilocybin, a hallucinogen. He
was arrested Sept. 6 and is free on a
$20,000 property bond.

The 16-page motion refers to ‘‘a
friend of Jeffrey Pack’s’’ and de-
scribes his experiences with Read.
Matthew B. Walrod, 23, yesterday
said he was that person. He was ar-
rested Sept. 27 on charges that he set
fire in May to a building at VMI. He
said he has signed a confession and is
free on a $10,000 property bond.

On Friday, Read filed a six-page
response motion that said the Pack
document was ‘‘a politically motivat-
ed attack against the entire drug in-
vestigation and against me personal-
ly.”

The original motion was filed by
Lexington attorney Thomas C. Spen-
cer. It was signed in standard form:
“Jeffrey R. Pack, By Counsel.”’ The
motion, however, appears to be
speaking in Spencer’s name when it
says:

“The effects and after effects of the

TIMOTHY LEARY

 

Leary to speak tonight

 

special grand jury’s investigation
ought to be of profound concern for
those of us charged with the admin-
istration of justice in Lexington and
Rockbridge County.”’

J. Todd Jones, president of the
Rockbridge County-Buena Vista Bar
Association, said that Read and
Spencer ‘have been political enem-
ies for some time.”

Spencer said he filed the motion
because he ‘“‘thought it was in the
best interest of my client and was
consistent with my professional re-
sponsibility.”

“It is a common tactic of lawyers
who represent criminal defendants to
make motions alleging prosecutorial
misconduct or motions to dismiss,”’
Read said in the response. He said
Spencer has used the tactic ‘‘many
times before”’ but that he has lost on
each occasion.

“As Commonwealth’s Attorney,”’
the response continued, ‘‘I make no
apology for the use of the special
grand jury, helicopters, narcotics
dogs, informants, immunity status,
or agreements to turn State’s evi-
dence to stop the sale, distribution,
and use of illegal drugs in Rock-
bridge County and Lexington.”

The Pack motion, which refers to
Read’s ‘‘warlike campaign against
members of society who use drugs,”
said the special grand jury ‘‘function-
ed from the outset as an inquisitorial
arm of the prosecutor’s office”
rather than remaining ‘‘an indepen-
dent investigative body.” _

It is legal in Virginia for the Com-
monwealth’s Attorney to also prac-
tice private law. ‘This private prac-
tice provides the opportunity for
what became gross acts of prosecu-
torial misconduct directly affecting
the constitutional right of Jeffrey
C See Read, Page 8

Dr. Timothy Leary, once brand-
ed ‘‘the most dangerous man
alive,’’ will speak tonight at 8 in
Lee Chapel.

Leary rose to prominence in the
1960s because of his controversial
drug experiments at Harvard
University.

Sponsored by Contact ’84, his
lecture is titled ‘‘Flashbacks with
Timothy Leary.’’ It is open to the
public

 

 

 
 

OPINION

Page 2
November 8, 1984

 

Four more years

Tuesday, President Ronald Reagan saw that he did indeed
have the nation wrapped around his little finger. He captured
the votes of the majority of males, females, Catholics, Pro-
testants and minorities. He won, by most accounts, a man-
date to govern and continue with the agenda he began four
years ago.

But more than merely receiving a vote of confidence from
the voters nationwide (are the District of Columbia and
Minnesota part of the United States?), Ronald Reagan saw
that America is in love with Ronald Reagan.

I suppose that shouldn’t surprise anyone, considering the
smooth-talking and feeling-evoking advertisements that the
Reagan-Bush campaign ran this fall. We heard that America
is waking up again, and that she is coming back. People are
feeling good once more about their country. Flags are wav-
ing. People are remembering the words to the national an-
them. Red, white and blue are once more colors people wear
with pride, on Main Street in downtown USA or on the
Champs Elysees in Paris. And all that in four short years.

It was, after all, five years ago last Sunday that 49
Americans were taken hostage in Tehran. The days of shame
began. Inflation was already on the rampage — 20 percent
—and interest rates had soared. Unemployment had begun to
nose slowly upward. A national malaise had set in. People
began to speak of the United States in terms reminiscent of
Rome during her final days of world rule.

The electorate in 1980 faced a clear challenge. It involved
choosing between the policies of the failing Carter ad-
ministration and the optimistic, hard-working ideas of the
Reagan ticket. In 1980, the public favored Reagan.

Some might say we haven’t changed much since then.
Wrong. We must give the voting public more credit. This
time, it voted for something it believed in, not against
something that had failed it. For the first time since Dwight
Eisenhower, it elected a President to two consecutive terms
while simultaneously establishing a historic margin of vic-
tory. Why? It all goes back to the dream of 1980, that ever
elusive — and unrealistic? — hope that we can indeed “‘begin
the world all over again.”

That statement by Thomas Paine captures the very. es-
sence of the electoral process in this nation and it epitomizes
the feelings Ronald Reagan evokes in the hearts of Amer-
icans. Like that offered by a minister preaching repentance
to a sinful audience, the message is one that offers a very real
hope for renewal and growth to the listener. The electoral
process affords the opportunity for America to reconsider the
immediate past and decide upon the immediate future.

In his concession speech Tuesday night, Walter Mondale
admitted he had been beat. The America he saw — one desir-
ing a fair and compassionate government — did not vote for
his vision. Instead, the vision monopolized by the Republi-
cans of an America consuming apple pie and hot dogs while
lifting Mom in the air carried the day. The America Ronald
Reagan sees is the same America a majority of its inhabi-
tants also want to see. Perhaps there is some truth to the old
adage that we are what we think we are.

For Ronald Reagan and 54 million voters who voted for
him, America is coming back. It has four more years to ar-
rive.

By Nelson Patterson

There he goes again

If there’s one refrain we’ve heard on the news this fall
more often than the tiresome, ‘‘Where’s the beef?’’, it has to
be President Reagan grinning, cocking his head and boldly
assuring the American people that he will not under any cir-
cumstances raise taxes during Reagan II.

But hold onto your wallet — we haven’t passed ‘‘Go’”’ yet.
There’s one small problem: Unless he plans to make the U.S.
Government a United Way agency, he needs to go in quest of
funds — and fast. The budget shortfall is escalating beyond
the wildest nightmare of the most cynical Cold Check Com-
mittee member.

A Gipper gape from some time ago is enlightening if a bit
frightening.

When Reagan was governor of California, a major issue
was whether the state should withhold income tax like is done
at the federal level. Reagan’s trademark firmness came to
the. fore as he announced his vociferous opposition to any
such move. ‘‘My feet are set in concrete on that issue,” he
told residents of the Golden State.

Well, you know how these things happen. Reagan decided
the state needed a little revenue enhancement, and it seemed
a good quick fix would be to withhold the state income tax.

He called a press conference to announce his support for
the move. He told the reporters somewhat sheepishly: “What
you hear, ladies and gentlemen, is the sound of concrete
breaking up around my feet.”’

The Great Equivicator strikes again.

Che Ring-tum Phi
Chief Editors Business Manager

Bruce Potter William Schoeffler
Mike Allen

  

OWE UME ihc iacrvonby aden tri tees eeNecclapthisilihie eG; Paul Foutch
Managing Editor ........ ... Reade Williams
Sports Editor............ - «+» Mike Stachura
Editorial Page Editor ............... . . Nelson Patterson
PROITR ONT IE cei cua hy ahccinivens ics ka UeticlitiicL tee. Cotton Puryear
eC ERM Uh ay Cees Nee Uh bey .cd Uoudaane ees ale oe Peter Crane
POV BIE 66 So via ose vrckad wm Rive eeeeseerereerececcececs Alex Bryant
CORIINMEE Stk avi tiie Senge Chris Bowring, Jeff Hubbard

Chris Gareis
PEN OTIIE ORIDRUOO 5 555.0 cs vkde haan hohe DKLURSENL EI OLiK eT eee, David Dunn

Eric Hancock, Jeff Kimbell,
Rob Tolleson, Brad Watkins

The Ring4tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent,

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-um Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity,

 

 

 

  

Dec. STAOS

  

 

 

Will June bicentennial go unobserved? -

MY VIEW

 

  

By B. Scott

ee Tilley

Next year will mark the end of an
era at Washington and Lee. It is ap-
parent, whether you were a support-
er or opponent of coeducation, that
certain aspects of our dear W&L are
going to be irretrievably lost. One
chapter of Washington and Lee’s his-
tory is about to be closed, and a new
one is about to be opened.

Clearly the Class of 1985 is in a uni-
que (and some may say enviable)
position. Many years down the road,
these distinguished alums will be
able to talk to their grandsons and
granddaughters, the new generations
of Generals and Generalettes, and
reminisce about the last days of the
“old” W&L. The Class of 1985 will be
the last to graduate from an all-male
Washington and Lee.

Looking back in Olligner Cren-
shaw’s ‘‘General Lee’s College,” it
hit me how apropos it is that 1985
should be the year that the transfor-
mation takes place — the year of the
University’s bicentennial. In a univ-
ersity so devoted to history and trad-

 

 

 

 

ition, I fear that a milestone may be
overlooked without the attention it
deserves.

But 1985 will mark the 236th birth-
day of Washington and Lee, many
will remark--not a bicentennial. Ma-
ny loyalists will accuse me of heresy
for overlooking the 1749 date. I, too,
am proud of the 1749 founding date
and the distinction it provides W&L
as being the sixth oldest school in
America. But 1785 also was an impor-
tant date in the development of W&L
—the year of the first commence-
ment exercises.

It was not until 1776 that a college
curriculum was adopted, modeled
after that at Princeton. In 1782,
Liberty Hall Academy was chartered
as a degree-granting institution of
higher learning, the first to be grant-
ed that status by the new state of Vir-
ginia. On the second Wednesday of
September, 1985, Liberty Hall
Academy, the forerunner of Wash-
ington College and Washington and
Lee University, held its first com-
mencement exercises.

Twelve gentlemen represented
that first graduating class. Among
them were six Presbyterian
ministers, three college presidents, a
governor, a judge and a_ noted
Virginia attorney. The University’s
“first great eccentric,’ Adam
Rankin, was in that class, according

IN INDIA. WHICH ONE IS ITA SACRILEGE TO KILL?
COW

PRIME MINISTER

 

to University Historian Taylor San-
ders. Rankin believed that the end of
the world was imminent, and upon
receiving a vision from God, took up
the task of walking from here to Jer-
usalem. He made it to Philadelphia
before he died.

In the 1870s, the still struggling col-
lege formed a ‘“‘Centennial Commis-
sion”’ in hopes of rejuvenating the in-
stitution. Originally planned in 1782
to coincide with the anniversary of
the charter and the unveiling of
Valentine’s recumbent statue of Lee,
circumstances caused its delay. The
event, by a vote of the Board of
Trustees, was reschedueld to com-
memorate the centennial of the first
graduation ceremonies. The Centen-
nial Commission was given $1,000 to
plan the celebration.

Events later forced this centennial
observance to also be all but nixed.
Margaret Junkin Preston, Lex-
ington’s foremost literary figure,
read a poem that became acclaimed
nationwide as the ‘‘Centennial Ode.”’
The seven governors, 11 senators, 20
congressmen,more than 40 judges
(including one on the Supreme
Court) and 12 college presidents who
had graduated in the past century
were recognized in a speech by the
Rev. Moses Drury Hoge of Rich-
mond.

This June, then, will mark the 200th

 

 

 

 

Cooperation will ease coeducation

MY VIEW

 

By Pamela P. Stallsmith

David Bowie's album ‘Changes”’
describes the trials and tribulations
of coping with a rapidly changing
world, one in which everything is
transitory. This state of flux affects
even the most sacred of institutions,
such as education,

Colleges and universities are con-
sidered involatile. They are seen as
intellectual sanctuaries which serve
as a refuge from the cold, unthinking
world. But no ivory tower existence
ever lasts, which W&L discovered
last July when the Board of Trustees
voted in favor of becoming coeduca-
tional.

Next year the University will un-
dergo what will probably be the big-
gest single change ever in the history
of the school. The admission of
women to the undergraduate pro-
gram will cause a major realignment
of the University’s academic and soc-
ial priorities. For instance, will
sororities be added? What about wo-
mens’ sports teams? Will classes be
added on womens’ history? This
momentous decision by the Trustees
will have great implications, and will
either make or break W&L. I say this
because how smoothly the transition
goes next year from an all-male to
coeducational bastion of learning de-
pends largely on the students.

Whether or not the students or
faculty support the issue is not the
point when discussing coeducation.

What is at stake is the continued har-
monious existence of the University.

The readers are probably curious
as to why I can speak so authori-
tatively of change and its implica-
tions. Last year I spent my junior
year abroad at the University of
Edinburgh in Scotland. In contrast to
the small, intimate atmosphere of
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
and suburban Lynchburg, Edin-
burgh, was, in effect, an imper-
sonalized university in a large,
bustling capital city. When I returned
to Central Virginia at the end of
August, I underwent an adjustment
period. After being away for a year
some changes had occurred
—nothing as extraordinary as W&L’s
decision to go coed, but changes
nevertheless —so a smooth adjust-
ment was vital for an untraumatic
return. My experience is on a much
smaller scale than that to which the
students at W&L will return next
September, but I can certainly em-
pathize with the gravity of this
change.

Next year the institution of W&L
will externally be the same, but its in-
ternal order will be new. It will be a
matter of using the same board by
playing a new game with new play-
ers. The University of today will be
no more next year. That is why it is
important to begin a sort of mental
preparation for next year’s arrival of
women. The future must be faced
and the inevitable accepted, despite
whether one personally agrees or dis-
agrees with coeducation,in order to

avoid a bitter, fragmented Universi-
ty.
The key for a smooth, trouble-free
transition is cohesion. The prevailing
“us and them” mentality — in this
case men against women — should be
synthesized to a “we” attitude, one
which will enrich rather than dene-
grate the University.

That is why it is necessary to put
aside any grudges or disgruntled opi-
nions as they serve only to hamper
The Big Change. Social entropy will
erupt only if it is allowed to. There is
no reason to expect this feared up-
heaval if next year’s freshmen and
transfers are treated accordingly. In
1844 Karl Marx remarked, ‘‘Philoso-
phers have only interpreted the
world in various ways; the point is to
change it.’’ W&L did not expand its
admissions policies 140 years after
that statement just for the sake of
change. The decision to do so was
made for a variety of reasons, with
which by now everyone is very fami-
liar. One cannot interpret the Trust-
ee’s decision to admit women as a
personal affront or as a haphazard
disregard for the University’s tradi-
tion.

For the well-being of W&L every-
one must face the inevitable fact that
next year women will enroll at the
University. One word explains what
should be W&L’s policy toward wel-
coming its new classmates: co-
operation.

(Stallsmith, from Bethedsa, Md., is a
senior English major at Randolph-
Macon Woman's College in’ Lynch-
burg.)

graduating class. It must be fate that
the bicentennial also marks the pass-
ing. It seems to me only natural that
this year’s commencement exercise-
-which by nature requires a look at
the past’--unless one chooses to look
at the future with total disregard for
the past--would also be a celebration
of our 200-year heritage. We could not
embark on this new journey without
our 200-year legacy.

President John Wilson, Dr. San-
ders and Frank Parsons, executive
assistant to the president, are cur-
rently aware of the situation and are
looking into possible ways of
recognizing the event. Though they
are interested, nothing has been de-
cided yet. In fact, the possibility re-
mains that the ceremonies will be
delayed until the fall of 1985, to be
recognized at the same time the first
women arrive.

“We have a record of letting impor-
tant anniversaries go by unnoticed,”
Parsons said. ‘‘Other schools search
to find opportunities like we have all
the time. We let the 1982 anniversary
of the charter go by with really
minimal notice.”

“It is an opportunity we should
sieze, next fall. We will be welcoming
a significant number of women. This
could link up the media attention
from just the new to how far back our
heritage goes. We can make it work
to our advantage.”’

I do not want 1985 to go by without
some observance of our past. If that
can only happen in the fall, so be it.
But with all of the media attention,
that is going to be directed toward
the coming of the ladies, such an
event cannot help but be lost. .
Another anniversary will pass un- —
noticed.

Maybe the Executive Committee,
Cole Dawson and senior class Presi-
dent Darby Brower can look into the
situation further and talk to the
administration more.

If the change were not coming, it
would be natural that the 200th com-
mencement exercises would be re- |
cognized in June. Let’s hope that |
when that time rolls around, we can
close the old chapter with a fitting
denouement.

Magazine is
too biased,
student says

To the Editors:

On page 30 of the Washington and
Lee University catalogue, there ex-
ists a description of the purpose of
the Washington and Lee Political
Review.

“The Political Review is a non-
partisan student publication devoted
to the consideration of current
political issues.”’

Clearly, this issue, fall 1984, has
breached its original intent, in that it
has chosen not only to be partisan,
but to be blatantly partisan. With the
editor, the assistant editor and the
managing editor all self-professed
Republicans, not to mention the ma-
jority of the writers, how can it be
anything but partisan?

It would seem that the intent, ‘‘con-
sideration of current political issues”
can only be reached through con-
scious striving for bi-partisan essays,
a feat which obviously was not ac-
complished in this fall’s issue.

Needless to add, this issue does lit-
tle to propel the idea of intellectual
debate and discussion of the impen-
ding political issues of the day and
goes against the premise on which
this great institution was founded
—liberal thought and _ intellectual
open-mindedness. To this extent, this
issue has done the students of
Washington and Lee a deplorable
disservice.

I would, therefore, ask that the
editors of this review abide by the
description provided by the cata-
logue. Only by keeping this publica-
tion bi-partisan can it spark any in-
tellectual discussion of the contem-
porary political issues of the day,

Paul J. Smith
Class of 1987
 

Back to you, Bob

Election coverage like ‘assembly line’

By BILL BLOOM
Staff Reporter

Once again this year, students working for WLUR-FM
and Cable Channel IX presented live coverage of the elec-
tion returns Tuesday night. Ring-tum Phi staff reporter
Bill Bloom spent the evening observing the activity on the
third floor of Reid Hall.

7:06 p.m. I opened the door of Reid Hall and immed-
iately heard the noise of a machine at full tilt two floors
above me. The Cable Channel IX televison station and
WLUR radio station had combined forces to produce a

‘ simultaneous broadcast of election returns and analy-

sis,

I entered the main floor of action and began to ob-
serve the various activities encompassing the whole
third floor of Reid Hall and involving more than 40 peo-
ple.

7:11 p.m. I find rooms of people, some watching
television tuned to the four major commercial net-
wrks, others waiting by telephones for incoming
Stories, quite a few constantly preparing copy from the
Associated Press wire for the anchormen: seniors Bob
Halloran and Bob Bryant. The newscast itself was
spread out over five rooms with several people engine-
ering it. It was almost like watching an assembly line.
As the raw material came in, it was processed, con-
structed into a product, shined up a bit and marketed

7:20 p.m. Forrest Cannon, a freshman who was
encouraged by a friend to help out this evening, describ-
ed it as a “‘rat race.’’ Cannon, who is not a journalism
major, was responsible for receiving calls with Rock-
bridge County and Lexington results, tallying them and

_ giving them to a script writer. He also was responsible

results.

7:26 p.m. The media machine was shifting into high
gear as more and more results began flooding in from
across the country. The numerous tasks seem to be sec-
ond nature for these people — almost an inborn sense of
the newsroom. Flashbacks of the now-defunct televi-
sion series ‘“‘Lou Grant’’ were continuously moving
through my mind.

7:32 p.m. I made my way into the studio and witness-
ed, for the first time, a live broadcast. The tension and
concentration in these few rooms was think enough to
cut with a knife. The engineering of the show was in-
credible to to watch. It was similar to seeing Houston
control during a spaceship launch. Technical people
were constantly communicating, trouble shooting, ad-
justing, always trying to improve the quality of produc-
tion. The directing engineer, Thomas W. ‘linsiley, pro-
vided occasional assistance. Tinsley is the director of
technical services for the University and is a 1975 grad-
uate of W&L.

7:50 p.m. I spoke to journalism professor Robert J. de
Maria about the seemingly professional broadcast that
was taking place. The broadcast was completely per-
formed by students under the coordination of senior Pe-
ter Wright, WLUR news director, with assistance from
senior Allen Reese. The whole operation consisted of
about 50 people (planning, broadcasting, location
assignments, etc.), about half of whom were journalism
majors. According to de Maria, the experience gained
by these students, taking on the whole production them-
selves, is unmatched by a majority of the schools in the
nation.

8:04 p.m. I made my move from the broadcast booth
back to the newsroom. The media machine still in high
gear was preparing to broadcast the Reagan victory,

for informing WVTF radio of Roanoke of the local

Sixth

© Continued from Page 1

ald Huffman agreed. ‘‘It would be in-
correct to say that there’s not a coat-

 

tail effect,’’ he said. ‘‘In these races
. that looked close, our candidates

Started with an 18 percentage point

' difference. There definitely is a coat-
, taileffect.”’

M. Caldwell Butler, who was the
6th District congressman for a de-
cade before retiring from office in

1982, echoed that assessment.

“I think Reagan coattails were

very helpful,”’ said Butler, who is

now a partner in a Roanoke law firm.

’ “Ray Garland would have done a lot
- worse if it were not for the coattails.”’

“Congressman Olin was vulner-

‘able on a lot of issues — his criticism
-of Reagan, his liberal voting record
_— but Mr. Garland did not present a

reasonable alternative,’ he said.
“People voted reluctantly for Olin,
but they would have voted for a
strong Republican ina minute.”
“T think Ray Garland was very un-
-popular,”’ he added. “It was a per-
sonal, negative vote on Garland in
‘the Roanoke Valley. He’s just been a
_bad candidate.”’
Garland carried the northern part
‘of the district, including Harrison-
_burg, but lost in the southern portion,
including the city of Roanoke and the
‘Roanoke Valley.
Butler said Republicans are not
conceding the seat to the rival party.
““T expect the Republicans will con-
,tinue to try for the district,’’ he said.
“A Democrat will never be able to

_ ‘rest. He’s going to have to persuade

.the people that he’s voting the con-
servative line.”’

He said speculation about who

.might be the party nominee in the
1986 race is premature until after
next year’s gubernatorial race, but
said there are people ‘‘all around the
district’ who are possibilities for the
post.

The first prospect Butler mention-
ed was Charles F. Phillips Jr., mayor
of Lexington and a Washington and
Lee economics professor.

“Chuck Phillips is probably a good

“one, but he’s probably not interest-

ed,’ Butler said. ‘‘He’s geograph-

_ically well located, knowledgeable,

experienced and conservative. And
he’s Republican.”’
‘People that are well qualified

often aren’t all that interested,’’ he
added.

“I’ve got tremendous interest in it,
but I doubt if I’d run,” Phillips said.
“There’s no way someone at W&L
can run for an office and ask for a
leave. It just doesn’t make any
sense.”’

“With a faculty like we have, you
almost have to hire someone to re-

place you,” he continued. ‘‘That’s -

especially true in the economics de-
partment, where we all have our
specialties.”

“I’m not interested in the General
Assembly,” he added. ‘‘Washington
might be of interest at some time, but
it would also mean leaving Washing-
ton and Lee, and that would be a
tough thing to do.”’

A number of the people interview-
ed offered harsh criticism of Gar-
land’s strategy and inability as a
campaigner. The same group said
Olin has worked quickly to build a
base of support through frequent per-
sonal appearances and careful atten-
tion to constituent service.

“I never felt Garland was a ter-
ribly good candidate,” Sabato said.
“TI don’t think his style plays that
well.”’

As an example of Garland’s inept-
ness, Butler pointed to the candi-
date’s comparison this summer of
the Democratic Party to ‘‘a busted-
out $2 whore.”’

“That was inexcusable,’ Butler
said.

When Garland addressed his sup-
porters Tuesday night, he urged Olin
to use the resources of the office for
constituent benefit rather than for
personal political gain.

“Olin has spent an awful lot of
money on postcards and the like,”
Butler said. ‘I think it was a legi-
timate criticism, but I don’t think a
concession speech was the appro-
priate place for it.”’

Garland said yesterday from his
Roanoke home that a persistent cam-
paign difficulty in the Roanoke Val-
ley had been that ‘‘the people here
are tired of me.”’

“T’ve been in politics here for 16
years,’’ he said. ‘“‘You reach a point
where you've been around too long.”

Garland said an incumbent con-
gressman has an enormous advan-
tage over his challenger because of
the tremendous volume of the office-
holder can generate. He said an out-
sider must rely on advertising to

accomplish the same results.

As his most effective piece of ‘‘paid
media,’ Garland cited a television
commercial that showed him in the
Oval Room of the White House with
President Reagan. ‘‘It created an as-
sociation with a popular and power-
ful man,” he said. “It had a certain
celebrity appeal toit.’’

Prior to this week’s defeat, Gar-
land lost his bid for the 6th District
nomination in 1982 and was ousted
from his state senate seat in 1983.
“Three strikes and you're out,’’ Sa-
bato said. ‘‘He’s had three strikes.”

“T would say that his availability
as a candidate is over,”’ Butler said.
“T would not encourage him to run
again at present.”

Garland, who says his occupation

Election Day in Lexington:
It all added up in the end

 

By JIMSTRADER
Staff Reporter

 

As was the case in much of the na-
tion, election turnout Tuesday was
heavy in both Lexington precincts,
according to election officials.

At the Fire Department, the polling
place for the West Precinct, 1,388 of
1,600 registered voters cast ballots,
said Becky Merchant, who with five
other election officers supervised the
day’s events. This represented about
an 80 percent turnout, she said.

In the East Precinct, 810 of 990
registered voters voted at City Hall,
according to figures tabulated there,
said election official Herman Taylor.

There were few problems with
unregistered voters or those who
decided to vote late in both precincts.
Although this has been a problem in
the past, Merchant said that this year
“we were really lucky.’’ The only
problem, she said, was that a few
people were uncertain of where to
vote. Taylor said that in his precinct,
there were one or two voters who had
moved prior to the registration
deadline and were ineligible to vote.

Other than this, Taylor said, the
problems were fairly routine.
Several blind voters needed
assistance as did handicapped
voters, who were allowed to vote
from their cars with a special ballot.

Both Merchant and Taylor noticed

 

An additional law student

‘ representative will be added to the

Executive Committee, if the student
body approves a_ constitutional
change next spring.

At its meeting Monday night, the
EC voted to place the proposed con-

* stitutional amendment before the

students for the second time in less
thana year.

A similar motion, approved 10-1-1
by last year’s EC, won the necessary
two-thirds support from students in
balloting last spring, but the required
50 percent of the student body did not
vote inthe referendum.

According to the motion passed un-
animously by the EC Monday, the

ED
Shuttle launched

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP)
. —Roaring skyward atop a huge

ball of flame, the Space Shuttle
Discovery lifted off from its
launch pad at the Kennedy Space
Center at 7:15 this morning.

This mission will feature the
first retrieval of satellites from
space. The Discovery crew will at-
tempt to snare two satellites that
have been in useless orbits since
being deployed last February.

The shuttle originally was sche-
duled to lift off early yesterday
morning, but potentially
dangerous wind conditions delay-
ed the launch 24 hours

 

 

 

second-year Law School class would
elect its own representative to the
EC. Currently, the first-year law
class has a representative and the
other Law School EC member repre-
sents both the second- and the third-
year classes.

Voting on the constitutional refer-
endum will be in March, during elec-
tions for student body president, vice
president and secretary.

After several EC members had
talked with law students last week,
EC President Cole Dawson said,
“There seems to be a lot of support
for another law rep, and there seems
to be a feeling that the second-year
students do not havea rep to turn to.”

The first-year law students and
their representative, Dawson noted,
are trying to adjust to the new school,
and the third-year students are busy
trying to find jobs,

In addition, he added, another Law
School representative would make

DP PLE LOPE EELS LD EOE IMG EME EEE PEE PRE BE PE

The New Opticians

Eye Care Center
Glasses - Contacts - Repairs

Ray-Bans 10% Off With Ad

SE Pa TL LI LP LM

_

203 N. Main St.

PMO ME DPE PME EAE AP LE LE PME GP EEE PE PE ERE SE AE

Vote slated on extra EC law rep

the law students ‘‘feel a part of the
honor system.”’

Another law student on the EC also
would give the committee additional
legal expertise in prosecuting honor
violations, Dawson added.

Balloting for the referendum will
be held over three days, a Monday,
Tuesday and Wednesday. Voting for
the Big Three elections will be on the
Monday only.

Because the voting will occur at the
same time as voting for the Big Thee
elections, Dawson said the EC should
get the 50 percent turnout rate nec-
essary for the amendment to pass.
Last spring, turnout was only 70
votes short of 50 percent. I think it
will pass,” he added. ‘‘I think the stu-
dent body was very much in favor of
it last year and for that reason I think
it will pass.”’

If the referendum is adopted, the
membership of the Executive Com-
mittee will increase from 12 to 13.

463-7440

beaecewvwarrwomMa

_ reached voting - age, while others

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1984, Page 3

 

F| EC I ION 7 Gp cm rer re EERE

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Seniors Bob Halloran (1) and Bob Bryant were anchors for Cable Channel IX/WLUR election coverage

Tuesday night.

projected by CBS and then ABC. Though the victory
was putting smiles on faces throughout, the diligent
work continued without any letdown. When ABC an-
nounced the victory of the Grand Ole Party, one student
shouted, ‘It’s over!’’, which was immediately followed
by, ‘“‘Yeah, but the job ain’t over until everyone knows
1

8:45 p.m. Pats on backs and congratulatory remarks
were starting to be heard even though the broadcast
was far from over. The machine was running smoothly

is managing his family investment
business, said his office-seeking ca-
reer is likely over. ‘In a political
sense, I would be very unlikely to be
in another race,” he said.

“I think '86 will be a tougher year
for us than ’88 would be,’ Huffman
said, noting the difficulties the party
occupying the White House tradition-
ally experiences in off-year elections.
Sabato agreed with that assessment.

The expectation, then, is that the
GOP will continue to keep a hungry
eye on the seat. ‘‘No Democrat from
the 6th District will ever really be
safe,’’ the U. Va. professor said.

“You can tell Mr. Olin he’s not
going to get any free rides,’’ Huffman
agreed. ‘‘He’s going to get a fight
every time until we beat him.”

victories.

several first-time voters on Tuesday.
Some were teen-agers who had just

were older people. One young man,
Taylor said, paced around nervously
and finally decided to go ahead and
vote. Another came to vote with his
father, who brought a camera to
record the event on film.

Merchant said she was surprised at
the older people who were casting
their first ballot. ‘‘There is no way for
us to know this unless they tell us,”
she said, adding that this may not be
unusual.

In the West Precinct, there was a
minor celebration when the 1,000th
voter entered the booth. He was
James E. Goodbar, owner of the
Virginia House restaurant. This was
somewhat ironic, Merchant said,
because the election officals were
served a steak dinner at the
restaurant following their long day at
the polls. Election officials were re-
quired to be at the precincts at 5 a.m.
and remained until the last votes
were tabulated and verified Tuesday
evening.

Overall, officials said they were
pleased with the day at both precinc-
ts. ‘‘We had a very nice, heavy turn-
out,’’ Merchant said, ‘‘and were busy
all day long until the very end.”’

For his part, Taylor said he and his
colleagues were pleased Tuesday
night when all of the figures added up
the first time they were tabulated.

time.”

vative.”’

policies.

 

and the main thrust of the evening was beginning to
wind down. Ties began to untie and sweaters were peel-
ed off, and tired faces were popping up here and there.

9:32 p.m. As I left the journalism building, I felt
almost like a spectator leaving a sporting event. I had
just witnessed an incredible display of professional ac-
tivity that was physically draining just trying to keep
up with it. Those who worked on covering the election
with Cable IX and WLUR should be congratulated for a
job ‘‘well done.”

‘soeanene eae eee, |
Election reactions vary

From Staff Reports

Although some may have been disappointed at the election’s out-
come, local officials said yesterday that they were not surprised by
President Ronald Reagan’s and Senator John Warner’s re-election

¢ Larry Mann, a local attorney and the Democratic candidate for
Commonwealth’s Attorney last fall, said, when asked, ‘“‘How are
you?’’, “I’m a Democrat and no Democrat should be fine today.”

Mann did say, though, that he was pleased with the re-election of
incumbent Democratic congressman Jim Olin over Republican
challenger Ray Garland.

Even though Reagan and Warner won the Sixth District, Olin wont
his race, Mann said, because he ‘‘impresses people as a very studied, Y
hard-working person. He learned from [former Republican Rep.”
Caldwell] Butler that if you do your homework and listen to your con-T
stituency, you can win re-election.”

Warner's victory over Democratic challenger Edythe Harrison did
not surprise him, Mann said. ‘Everyone knew from the start that it
was uphill all the way,”’ he added.

Mann, who supported Gary Hart for the Democratic nomination,
said, ‘‘At the time, I didn’t feel Mondale could mount the kind of cam-
paign necessary to beat Reagan. It would have been nice to have hada
close race, but that’s alright. Now the Republicans will have to
answer for the next four years.”’ ;

* Beverly.C, ‘John’ Read, who defeated Mann to win re-election to
the Commonwealth's Attorney’s post last fall, was unabashedly
ecstatic about the election results.

“T think it’s fantasic, absolutely fantastic,’’ he gushed. ‘It should
make people proud to be Americans, because this will do so much for
the economy. This is the brightest future this country’s had in a long

In the area of foreign policy, Read said, ‘‘This should send a very
clear message to the Kremlin that America is not going to tolerate
Soviet intervention in other countries.

Reagan’s large margin of victory nationwide represents both an en-
dorsement of his policies and an approval of his personality, Read
said. “‘He’s a popular President because he’s done what’s good for
America,” he added. ‘‘He hasn’t done it for political reasons, he’s done
it for America.”

Although Read said he was somewhat disappointed by Olin’s vic-
tory, he added that, during the campaign, Olin was ‘‘in fact, a conser-

Because of the victories by Reagan and Warner in the Sixth District,
Read added, ‘‘Olin better and should start voting along the lines of
what the President is trying to accomplish in this country. I think he
will do that, from what he said last night.”’

¢ Charles F. Phillips, Lexington mayor and W&L economics pro-
fessor, said he was pleased with the results.

“It would have been nice to have won that third race,’’ he added,
‘but I can’t complain with two out of three.”’

Phillips hesitated to term Reagan’s victory a mandate for his

“Well, I’m always a little leery of mandates,’ he said. “I don’t think
there's any question but that he himself is very popular. I would
hesitate to call it a mandate in that he wasn’t able to carry many of his
party with him.”’

Phillips also credited Olin’s victory to his ability to develop a strong
constituency. ‘‘He’s done his homework and has traveled extensively
thoughout the district, and it sure showed,”’ he said.

 

 

If you love Star Trek,
you'll adore Dr. Who.

   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
        
 
       
 
    
 
   
 

stp
bre
a "

He was born with two hearts and a
normal body temperature of 60° F. He is
more than 750 years old and shuttles
through time and space in the TARDIS
(Time and Relative Dimensions in Space
machine). He does battle with a host of
diabolical creatures, including the time-
devouring Kronovores, the partially-
decomposed Cybermen and the Anti-Matter
Beast from Zeta-Minor.

Who is he? Why, Dr. Who, of course.
Since the broadcast of his first BBC
television episode 21 years ago, Dr. Who has
become the hero of the world’s oldest
continuing science-fiction series.

Described in Time magazine as
something like Star Trek as conceived by
Monty Python, Dr. Who has an estimated
100 million viewers in 54 countries. Don’t
miss your chance to become a Whovian.

Daily Episodes—
Monday through Friday,
6:00-6:30 p.m., Blue
Ridge Public Television
(Channel 15)

Underwritten by the
Roanoke Times &P World-News

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1984

 

Student says he expected Gandhi slaying

 

By BRUCE POTTER
Chief Editor

 

In the aftermath of last week’s assassination of
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, India must “recognize
the pluralistic nature of its society” if its democracy is

survive, according to a Washington and Lee student

ho spent the summer in that country

Senior Clark Morledge, who worked as a missionary

n India, added that the assassination of Gandhi was not
entirely unexpected following a summer of tension be-
tween rival religious groups

Morledge was one of about 200 American college stu-

dents who spent 10 weeks as missionaries in such coun-
tries as Taiwan, Mexico, Belgium and Nigeria through
1 program sponsored by the Inter-Varsity Christian
Fellowship, part of the International Fellowship of
Evangelical Students, Morledge, a mathematics major
from Williamsburg, is president of W&L’s Inter-Varsity
Christian Fellowship.

Although his job consisted mostly of carpentry and
construction work at the Christian mission in the nor-
thern state of Kashmir, Morledge also helped lead a lo-
cal youth group and sometimes talked with the local
people who came to the mission.

In the process, he gained an understanding of life and

culture in India, the world’s largest democracy.

India’s government is similar to that of the United
States during the 1780s because the state governments
hold a great deal of power, Morledge explained.

Gandhi’s party is one of at least 12 parties that have a
significant amount of power in the country, he added.
However, it is the only party that represents each of the

states, which have different cultures (and languages,
more than 85 of which are spoken in the country).

“Going from state is not like going from Virginia to

North Carolina,’’ Morledge said. ‘‘It’s even more differ-
ent from going from somewhere such as Mississippi to
New York.”

Morledge said he was not surprised last week when he
heard of Gandhi's assassination by two of her body-
guards, members of the Sikh religious sect

One of the causes of the assassination was an incident
in early June, when the Indian Army stormed the Sikh’s
‘““Mecca,”’ the Golden Temple, supposedly to prevent
Sikh terrorist attacks, Morledge said.

After this, ‘people realized that Mrs. Gandhi's life
was definitely in danger,’’ Morledge added. ‘‘She’d
been threatened ever since the day after the temple was
attacked.”

Storming the temple, which housed up to 1,000 Sikhs
and was a warehouse for arms, ‘‘was a very, very dif-
ficult decision for Mrs. Gandhi,’ Morledge explained.
“She pretty much felt...that because of the safety of
the county, she had to go in there. It could be her life to
do that, but most people in India generally supported
her in doing that.”’

Afterward, though, the Sikhs, particularly the more
radical members, regarded Gandhi as ‘‘a demonic
figure.”

Morledge, who arrived in India less than a week after
the attack on the Golden Temple, said that throughout
the summer he could feel the tension between the Sikhs
and India’s other religious sects, especially the Hindus
and the Moslems, the two dominant groups.

“Every day, the news service and the radio always
were reporting that at least a half dozen terrorists had
been picked up in the Punjab state,’’ directly south of
Kashmir, he said.

About the beginning of July, he added, the chief min-
ister of the Kashmir state was accused of smuggling
arms to the Sikhs from Pakistan through Kashmir.

Gandhi’s people decided to overthrow the chief min-

ister [a Moslem] and put their own person in there,”’
Morledge said.

“That created a whole lot of tension. When that hap-
pened, there was an uproar and a lot of demonstra-
tions.”’

The Sikh religious sect was formed, Morledge ex-
plained, about 500 years ago as ‘‘an attempt to recon-
cile” Islam and Hinduism and to blend and attract fol-
lowers from both religions.

However, each of the other two groups thought the
Sikhs were leaning too far in the opposite direction.
“What started out as a movement trying to reconcile
two others has been reduced to a movement fighting for
its own survival,’’ Morledge said. ‘As a result, it is very
militaristic.”’

Sikhs are required a wear a certain kind of under-
wear, a ring, a bracelet and a turban and to carry a dag-
ger, Morledge added.

Because of Gandhi's popularity as a ‘“‘mother figure,”’
Morledge said the violence that followed her assassina-
tion also did not surprise him.

“I knew it was going to happen,”’ he added. ‘‘When I
heard she had been shot, my first thought was that
there were going to be hundreds ot Sikhs whose lives
were going to be in danger.”’

One reason for this, Morledge explained, is that the
concepts of morality and right and wrong are not strict-
ly understood in India.

“The ethical standard is there,” he said. ‘‘In theory,
they recognize it, but in practice, they ignore it.”’

“‘There’s no sense of an absolute right and wrong,’’ he
added. Violence such as that resulting in the deaths of
1,100 Indians in the past week ‘‘is not necessarily sanc-
tioned, but it is understandable. A lot of people say,
‘Well, that’s just the way itis.’ ”’

As long as the Sikh radicals refrain from further as-
sassinations, ‘‘the immediate reaction will eventually

 

CLARKE MORLEDGE
wear out after a while,’’ Morledge said.

“The real question,”’ he added, ‘‘is ‘Is Pakistan going
to take advantage of this situation?’ That’s a big ques-
tion.”

Since India’s last war with Pakistan, its neighbor to
the north, Morledge said, ‘‘India’s had a habit of when-
ever there’s a lot of internal trouble, to blame it on
Pakistan. . . Since [1971] there has been a lot of talk *
about war. Anything can provoke a war over there.”

Another question, Morledge said, is ‘‘What’s the new
government going to be like? With Gandhi gone, is there
going to be a glue to hold that country together? Look-
ing at India right now, you just don’t see anybody.’

Although Morledge added that India may not recover
for a while, the country’s democracy should remain sta-
ble, as long as some way is found to balance the vastly
differing regional interests.

If one group gains control, “‘it’ll fall apart,’’ Morledge
said. “It’s just a miracle that India is doing like it is
right now.”’

 

Elrod anticipates an increase in number of female faculty

 

By ANDY y ANDY HOPPES
Staff Reporter

 

As more women. become
undergraduates at Washington and
Lee over the next ten years, ad-
ministrators say, the University will
ilso try to increase the number of
women on the faculty.

“It’s very important that we try in
1 rational and careful way to add
women to our faculty,’ said Dean of
the College John W. Elrod. ‘‘We’ll be
ooking for opportunities to do that
during the 10-year transition period.”

“There is no quota. We hope that
we will be able to bring well-qualified
women onto the faculty,”’ he added.

Elrod explained that he believed
the number of women on the faculty
compared to men was_ probably
lower compared to the ratio at other
universities. However, he added that
this was hardly surprising consider-
ing the University’s all-male history.
Washington and Lee has one female
associate professor, four female
assistant professors and four female
instructors.

Princeton University reported that

 

Coeducation:

8 3

What Will It Mean?

in 1970, when the school first went
coed, it had only one tenured woman
on the faculty, two women who were
assistant professors and 17 women
who were either lecturers or instruc-
tors. Ten years later Princeton had
10 tenured women professors, 40
women assistant professors and 35
women lecturers and instructors.

“T hope every department will look
hard at the women applicants in its
pool,’ said Elrod. “I wouldn’t want
any department to have to take less
than the best qualified candidate. But
I hope we find some of these are
women.”’

Elrod said that with coeducation
making a teaching job at Washington
and Lee more attractive for women,

 

the university would benefit from the
increased size of the applicant pool
for faculty positions. ‘‘The quality of
our new people should go up,” he
said.

He said he agreed with the findings
of a Princeton report that said that it
was important to have women facul-
ty members who could serve as role
models for female undergraduates.

“Just as it’s important for women
to have role models in law and
medicine, it’s important to have
them in education,” Elrod said.

He added that as a spinoff of hav-
ing a strong female presence on the
faculty, more undergraduate women
might be encouraged to become col-
lege professors themselves. One of
the major problems facing univer-
sities today is that not enough
students want careers as college pro-
fessors, Elrod asserted. In 1966, 1.8
percent of college students said they
wanted to become professors, while a
1982 survey showed that only 0.2 per-
cent of college students said they
wanted to become professors, Elrod
reported.

The increase in women faculty
members during the next 10 years

 

ai

 

 

} cipply ( ali ver 0

eu PEP Ns
FOR PEOPLE WITH MORE
BRAINS THAN MONEY.

PIEDMONT'S 50% OFF COLLEGE FARE.
Face it, your learning years are not your prime earning
years. But don't let that stop you from moving off campus.
Through February 28, 1985, you can fly: anywhere
Piedmont flies for half fare To LA and NewYork. And to all
kinds of hot spots and hometowns in between.
What’ the catch? Well, you must be under 26 and have
avalid student ID. Read the fine print below for restrictions.
Piedmont’s 50% Off College Fare. More proof that our

commitment to higher education is s NOt just < aloes ideal.

4 PUELUTIOUTT PURUMITES

 

 

likely will be gradual, Elrod in-
dicated. New faculty members are
added due to retirement, resignation
and expansion, and naturally not all
the new faculty members will be
women, Elrod said.

“There are not going to be many
new positions opening up in the facul-
ty within the next 10 years,” Elrod
said, noting that about 80 percent of
the faculty members at Washington
and Lee are tenured.

Elrod reported that at present the

University is searching specifically
for women to fill two newly created
staff positions. A woman will be hired
as an assistant athletic director in
charge of coordinating women’s
physical education courses, in-
tramurals and intercollegiate sports,
and a woman will be hired as a new
assistant dean of students, Elrod
said.

Elrod said that an expansion in the
size of the faculty might be necessary
in the coming years for several

reasons. For one, the new general
education requirements have _in-
creased enrollment in classes in
some departments. Also, Elrod said
that it was not unthinkable that
female undergraduates at Washing-
ton and Lee might favor different
courses than male students, placing
additional pressure on some depart-
ments. Nevertheless, Elrod said it is
impossible to know what depart-
ments might be expanded or by how
many positions.

Darrell hints at food service
changes for women next fall

 

By ANDY HOPPES
Staff Reporter

 

As Washington and Lee prepares
for the arrival of the first female
undergraduates next fall, W&L Food
Services director Jerry Darrell is
making sure that women will enjoy
the menu and atmosphere at Evans
Dining Hall.

Darrell said he is considering
changes in the menu, such as a third
entree at each meal, and changes in
the atmosphere of the dining hall to
make it more hospitable to women.

One of the complaints that female
law students have voiced to the coed-
ucation committee is that the food in
the dining hall is too starchy. Darrell
said this is due to the eating habits of
W&L’s male students.

“Our guys are meat and potatoes
guys,’’ Darrell explained.

Darrell said that although items
such as the salad bar, quiche and
yogurt had become popular with
some W&L students in recent years,
90 percent of the students who eat in
the dining hall still are ‘‘meat and
potatoes guys.”

“We do serve a lot of that (starchy
food), but we try to serve something
with it that is non-starchy,”’ Darrell
added.

For next year, Darrell is consider-
ing a three-entree-per-meal plan that
he learned about from a friend at Ro-
chester Institute of Technology. At
each meal, both lunch and dinner,

students would have a choice be-
tween red meat or pork, white meat
or fish and a third non-meat entree.
Items in the meatless entree cate-
gory would include such dishes as
vegetarian lasagne, spinach and rice
casserole and fettuccini alfredo.

Darrell said a three-entree plan
such as this would not increase the
cost of a dining hall meal to the stu-
dents because the amount of food
consumed would not increase. People
will be eating a wider variety of food
instead, Darrell explained.

Another option the dining hall
could use to diversify the menu would
be to provide a salad bar at lunch as
well as at dinner. Darrell said that if
there seems to be a demand for the
salad bar at lunch next year, he
might decide to start providing it.

Students can select a pre-made
salad from the serving line during
lunch.

Darrell said a second factor that
makes him reluctant to serve the
salad bar during lunch is that stu-
dents might start to enjoy it less
because they will take it for granted.
Darrell said that when the dining hall
started having ‘“‘steak night’’ twice a
month instead of once a month the
students did not seem to look forward
to it as much. Likewise, students
might start to get tired of the salad
bar, Darrell said.

Darrell said next year he might
also try to make the dining hall more
attractive by trying some new decor-
ative ideas. Men at W&L were never
too worried about the atmosphere of

 

Typewriter: A thing of the
Past?

See the new Kaypro at your
W&L Bookstore. Look at it,
touch it, try it out.

Kaypro Business Pack
only

$1,895

Complete System

Kaypro 2X, Kaypro Letter Quality
Printer, and $2,000.00 of free soft-
ware included with this system. You
provide the paper and electricity.

Educational Discount Available to all

Students, Faculty and Staff of W&L

Shenandoah Micro
Computers, Inc.

21 N. Central Avenue
Staunton, Va. 24401
Your Computer Store Since 1979
(703) 885-8057

| A A eC A I IN, AT EE I me

the dining hall, but Darrell said he
will try to do more decorating next
year.

“I’ve got a couple ideas that are
going to be surprising,’ Darrell said.

The Cockpit also may be in for
some changes next year, Darrell in-
dicated.

“T would like to see the Cockpit as a
place where women will want to visit.
I think next year it’s going to be a
natural place for women to go. And
once they go, men are going to fol-
low,’, Darrell commented.

Darrell said that he is trying to
draw a bigger dinner crowd to the
Cockpit with his new line of sand-
wiches in order to get students to
start thinking of the Cockpit as more
than just a place to drink beer.

Darrell is even considering chang-
ing the name of the Cockpit. He said
that unlike many other universities,
nothing in the name ‘Cockpit’ re
flects the fact that it is the Washing-
ton and Lee tavern.

Before making any changes,
however, Darrell is planning on get-
ting a lot of input from students and
faculty on what changes are necess-
ary. Darrell will meet with the Coed-
ucation Steering Committee Nov. 15,
and he is encouraging female law
student students to discuss both the
positive and negative features of the
dining hall with him. Darrell said he
also has begun inquiring about the
food programs at other universities
that recently have switched to
coeducation such as _ Davidson,
Princeton and Sewanee.

White
No suit filed yet

The attorney for Minority Affairs
Director John L. White said Tuesday
that White has not filed a discrimina-
tion lawsuit for his Oct. 22 firing by
University President John D. Wilson.

White, who has not confirmed that
he is planning a lawsuit but said he
has retained an attorney in the mat-
ter, has 90 days from the date of the
firing to contact the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission in or-
der to file a suit.

Melvin Hill, of the Lynchburg law
firm Charles Mangum & Associates,
said he has not talked to White since
last week.

‘He has just talked to me about his
resignation,’ Hill said, ‘‘but we
haven't discussed the matter any fur-
ther.”’

Hill, who said he did not discuss a
lawsuit with White, added that White
is not actually his client because no
monetary agreement has been made.

 

 

THE ULTIMATE ROLL

Virginia Women
Killington, VT
Luxury Travei
Special Parties

Help

school’s winter break

uS SPONSOF VOUT

ski trip and ski free!

= —-EOV Fo»

(ROO) S47. 8OOR TOELE

 

LREE
‘Marathoner takes challenges in stride

‘

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Staff Reporter

 

Sunday, Oct. 28, was not the best day
for running a marathon, especially one
through the boroughs of New York Ci-
ty. It was relatively warm — 79 degrees
—and the humidity was an unseason-
able 96 percent. Most people would not
have begun a marathon.

But not so for George Cunningham.
For the avid marathon runner and
familiar face behind the post office
counter, the course was a challenge,
and nothing, including the weather,
could stop him from undertaking the
run through New York City to Central
Park.

“I had a poor time at the finish,” he
said. “A 4:38.47. But it was the worst
weather I've ever run in.”

People know Cunningham because

_ \f his voice. Having had a laryngec-

tomy in 1978, he speaks with some

’ difficulty. The stoma at the base of
_ his neck through which he breathes is

not easily seen. But his handicap has

* not hindered him in his pursuit of

>

   

running excellence.

“I was running before the opera-
tion in 1978,”’ he noted. ‘‘The only pro-
blem it presents is you can’t take in
as much oxygen through the stoma
as you can through the nose or
mouth.”’

A veteran of ‘‘somewhere between
20 and 25”’ marathons, he finds run-
ning the key to relaxation.

“T just enjoy running,” he said. ‘I
can go out there at lunch time and
run five or six miles and I feel like a
different person. I feel so good when I
return and I recuperate so fast. I
may be as tired and sore as I am lac-
ing my shoes but afterward I feel like
a whole different person.’’

Cunningham began running in 1975
because, as he put it, ‘‘I just decided I
was going to doit.”

He began by walking and running,
gradually working his way up to race
capability. In his first race in 1978, he
finished 19th out of 37 runners, ‘‘pret-
ty close to midway.’’ The next year,
in the same race, he bettered his time
by 10 minutes over the same course.
The rest is history.

He said he considers the Boston
Marathon course ‘‘one of the easiest ’

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

_ Parents and their sons enjoy the tailgate party Saturday.

 

_ The school-wide tailgate party that

highlighted Parents’ Weekend this
’ year went ‘‘extremely well,’ said
. Dick Sessoms, director of alumni
programs.

Sponsored by the Alumni Associa-
, tion and the Interfraternity Council,

the party was held on the upper athle-
* tic field last Saturday and featured a
. blue grass band.

David Perdue, president of the
‘IFC, said he had encouraged the
, fraternities to conduct their pre-

game luncheons and receptions at
" the tailgate party.
, “I thought it went great,’’ Purdue
said. ‘‘I really enjoyed it and heard a
* great deal of enthusiasm. I heard a
«lot of enthusiasm for the next year,

Alum donates
swords, pistols
to art center

_ By JOHN RILEY
Special to The Phi

 

_ A collection of 13 antique swords
and three pistols has been donated to

’ Washington and Lee’s Reeves Cen-

_ ter, according to James Whitehead,
curator of the center.

The collection was donated by

, Frank B. Hayne, a 1915 alumnus of
Washington and Lee. Hayne, of Flat

* Rock, N.C., died June 25.

Among the swords, the most not-
able is a 16th-century Italian swept--

* hilt rapier made by the famous Caino

. makers of Milan, according to N.
Marshall Jarrett, a W&L history pro-

’ fessor and a sword collector himself.

“It is the same type of sword that
the Three Musketeers used,”’ Jarrett

* said.

, The 43-inch blade of the weapon
made it so dangerous that it was out-
lawed by Cardinal Richelieu during

. the Reign of Terror in France, Jar-
rett added.

One of the pistols is an ornate Tur-

, kish model of unknown age, and the
other two are reproductions of the

‘ pistols used in the 1804 duel between

, Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr.

Neither Whitehead nor Jarrett
could place an approximate value on

, the collection, which will be housed in
the Reeves Center or, possibly, the

‘ Warner Center, Whitehead said.

SNu run held

The Sigma Nu fraternity raised

$1,745.51 in pledges for its 44-mile
‘relay run Saturday from Lexington
to Lynchburg.

The team ran to show its support
for the Washington and Lee cross
country team, which was competing
in (and winning) the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championships
in Lynchburg that day.

The money raised from sponsors
will be donated to the Lexington-
Rockbridge United Way

Tailgate party deemed
success by

_ By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

organizers

Sessoms said he also was pleased
with the event.

‘“‘We’ve proven that the activity is
popular,”’ he added. ‘With a fairly
modest amount of activity and work,
you've got a really good activity.”

This was the first year that a tail-
gate party was held during Parents’
Weekend. Sessoms said one of the
purposes was to get the alumni and
the students involved together. In ad-
dition, the activity helped give the
athletic program a great deal of sup-
port.

“I guess we doubled or tripled the
attendance at the soccer game (Sat-
urday afternoon),’’ Sessoms said.

Finally, Sessoms said that part of
the success lies in the fact that it
gave students a terrific place to bring
their parents.

“The reaction from the parents
was extremely positive, and the
athletes appreciated it because it
helped attendance a lot, especially at
the soccer game,’’ said Jim Kerr, one
of the students who assisted the
Alumni Association in planning the
event. “I think it was a resounding
success.”

“The weather had a lot to do with
it,” he continued. ‘‘It was a beautiful
day and a beautiful location. It had a
little less stiffness than, for example,
the president’s reception.”

“It was another opportunity for
parents to meet the guys in their
son’s fraternity and, more impor-
tantly, to meet your other friends
who are in other fraternities or are
independents,” Kerr added.

117 West Nelson Street

because of the relatively few hills
present.

The courses for the Virginia Beach
Marathon and the Marine Marathon
in Washington, D.C. are easier be-
cause of their flat geographies, he ad-
ded.

“I just prefer Boston because there
are so few hills, just one big hill at the
20 mile mark,”’ he said. ‘“‘But I don’t
think that I will ever run in the
Boston (marathon) again because of
the time limits involved.”’

To qualify. for the Boston
Marathon, a runner’s time must be
under 3:30. Though Cuningham’s
personal best time is a 3:28 in the
Waynesboro Marathon in 1978, he has
not been able to regain that time to
qualify for Boston again.

Although he said he enjoys races,
he tries to avoid short races of five or
10 kilometers. ‘I’m just the slowest
runner in those races in a 60-mile
radius,’ he noted.

Currently, Cunningham is prepar-
ing for a 50-mile race called the JFK
run/walk to be held in Boonesboro,
Md., Nov. 17.

“In a run/walk,” he explained,
“you run 25 minutes and then walk

Horsemanship is not

 

By BILL HANNA
Special to The Phi

 

Southern Seminary Junior College
has quietly developed one of the best
horsemanship programs in the
United States and Canada.

Its riders have won the Inter-
collegiate National Championship
four of the last five years.

What many people don’t see is the
equine program behind the showing
of horses. It includes a Horseman-
ship Certificate, an associate in
science degree in Equine Manage-
ment and an associate degree that
combines both these areas.

The Horsemanship Certificate
gives the student a knowledge of
horses and skills in riding. It includes
courses on the physiology, history
and development of horses. Nutri-
tion, illness and care, breeding and
stable management are also taught.
The student also must learn to ride,
show, train and teach others to ride
to get the certificate.

An associate degree in liberal arts,
physical education or animal science
also is needed.

The remaining two equine degrees
are new to Southern Seminary and
will be offered for the first time in the
fall of 1985.

The Equine Management degree is
designed for students who wish to be-
come stable managers trainers or
breeders of horses on a full-time
basis.

The program emphasizes the bus-
iness knowledge needed to work in
the horse industry. If contains all of
the courses normally required in the
first two years of a management
skills major in a four-year institu-
tion. This allows students to transfer
into a four-year program if they wish
to continue for a degree in business
administration, accounting or man-
agement.

The associate degree in Equine
Management with a Horsemanship
Certificate is the most extensive
equine program Southern Seminary
offers.

This is a three year program re-
quiring an internship at a large
breeding and training farm that is
taken either during the summer be-
tween the second and third year or
during the final year.

The program is designed for stu-
dents who plan to operate a stable
raising and training horses.

According to Southern Seminary’s
academic dean, Joseph Carter, the
new programs were created partly

RECORDS

Lexington, Virginia

Delivery Free Pizza?

Look at Sit Down
vs. Delivery Menu
Prices are Different!
Spanky’s Delivers

Call Air-Whamo
463-3338

6p.m.-12a.m.

Service run by W&L Student Bob Sloan

 

for three or four minutes. In the JFK
race, since part of the race is held on
the Appalachian Trail, you have to
walk.”’

His conditioning for the race in-
cluded a 31-mile practice last
weekend and another 30 miles this
weekend. So far, he said he isn’t too
satisfied with his practice times
Last weekend, he strained a muscle
and had to walk more than he would
during the actual race

“But I expect that I'll do better this
weekend,”’ he said.

He is hoping for cooler weather
than he had during the New York
marathon. ‘I do best in weather with
temperatures in the low 50s with low
humidity and sort of cloudy,” said
Cunningham, adding that ‘‘a little
rain helps.”’

Outside, the weather had taken a
turn for the worse. Mist had turned to
a gentle rain, and Cunningham was
leaving on his lunch break to go home
and choose one of his six pairs of run-
ning shoes for his daily run. He had to
get in part of the 50 miles he does for
taining for big races.

After all, Nov. 17 isn’t that far off.

 

Editors’ note: Several weeks ago, we
began distributing The Ring-tum Phi at
Southern Seminary Junior College,
which does not have a school news-
paper. In this way, we hope to improve
the bond that ties Washington and Lee
with the surrounding women’s colleges.
For this reason, from time to time, we
will be printing articles such as this that
should be of interest to both Washing-
ton and Lee and Southern Seminary
students.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1984, Page 5

 

 

 

because of student interest. ‘‘We
have always had an interest in stu-
dents to prepare themselves for a
career in training and raising
horses,”’ he said.

Carter said the present programs
only offer skills in riding. The stu-
dents need business and manage-
ment courses as well as riding
courses to go into the horse field full-
time.

Russ Walther, director of the rid-
ing program, said, ‘‘There is a grow-
ing need in the horse industry for
qualified people. The industry has
grown so rapidly that there are more
jobs offered than can be filled.’’ He
said the new programs will train stu-
dents for those jobs.

 

 

   

By Cotton Puryear

: e Ring-tum Phi
Post Office employee George Cunningham recently completed the gruel-
ing New York marathon.

just learning to ride

Deal Tompkins, director of admis-
sions said this program is one of the
few of its kind to be offered in the
country.

Walther added, “The notoriety
gained through the comprehensive
equine program will bring more and
more students to the school.”

Riding at Southern Seminary is not
restricted to those who major in one
of the three equine programs. Ac-
cording to Tompkins, more than 50
percent of the students are involved
in the riding.

The school offers physical educa-
tion courses in beginning, interme-
diate and advanced riding.

The intercollegiate riding team
also is open to any student in good
academic standing. The riders for
each show are selected by the coach-
es acoording to their current riding
performance.

The indoor arena and stables at
Southern Seminary are almost as im-
pressive as the equine program

The arena is 80 feet wide and 200
feet long with flooring of sand and
sawdust over clay.

The arena also holds the offices of
the director, stable manager and rid-
ing instructors.

As many as 80 spectators can
watch the events from a gallery and
an indoor lounge.

The stables are attached to the
arena and provide 69 stalls, four
wash racks, a veterinary/blacksmith
room, two tack rooms, a feed room
and loft space for more than 2,000
bales of hay.

The stables were built in 1981 to
replace inadequate stalls that had
been there since 1933.

The stalls are open to students who
bring their own horses with them to
school and about half the stables are
occupied by student-owned horses.

According to Tompkins, the stu-
dents’ horses receive stall priority. If
there is not room for both the student
horses and the school-owned horses,
the school keeps its animals outdoors
ina nearby pasture.

School employees take care of
cleaning the stalls everyday and
feeding the horses. Exercising and
grooming are the students’ responsi-
bilities.

According to Lori Goater, a pro-
fessor in the equine program, ‘‘The
purpose of our equine program is to
give the students something market-
able.”’

 

 
SPORTS
Harriers, Miller win ODACs

Goundry,
Pittman

pace win

 
 
   

By STE ala wi.
Staff Reporter

Last Saturday the Washington and
Lee cross country team topped off its
perfect season by winning the Old
Dominion Athletic conference Cham-
pionships. Washington and Lee won
the meet with 41 points, over Lynch-
burg (52), Hampden-Sydney (74),
Eastern Mennonite (94), last year’s
ODAC Champions Roanoke College
(111) and Bridgewater (152)

The race itself was won by Mark
Granger of Lynchburg in 27:04,
followed by Washington and Lee’s
Eddie Goundry (27:15) and Frank
Pittman just two seconds later
27:17). Hampden-Sydney’s top
finisher was Jay Turner (27:18) with
Roger Ripstein (27:21) of Bridge-
water right behind. In sixth place
was Ted Myers of Washington and
Lee in 27:26. Also placing for the Gen-
erals were Ron Moody (28:00) in 14th
place and David Andrews (28:07) in
16th place

“It was probably Eddie’s best race
ever,” said Coach Miller. ‘‘The meet
itself was about as close as I thought
it would be. It was a good team win.”

While the team became the ODAC
Champion for the second time in
three years, Coach Miller was named
the cross country coach of the year
When asked how it feels to be the
Coach of the Year, Miller replied,

‘When the team wins, I win.”’
then smiled and walked away.

Also honored on Saturday, were
Mark Granger of Lynchburg who
was named Runner of the Year. Ed-
die Goundry, Frank Pittman and Ted
Myers were named to the ODAC All-
Conference team.

This Saturday the Generals will
participate in the South-Southeast
Regiona! competition at Sewanee in
Tennessee. Last year the Generals
finished third in the regionals. The
Generals will send only eight run-
ners: Goundry, Pittman, Myers,

He

Moody, Andrews, Clark, Scott R.
Rippeon and Mark Pembroke. If
the Generals win the Regionals or
finish in second place, they will
qualify for the NCAA National Cham-
pionships at Ohio Wesleyan Universi-
ty.

The Ring-tum Phi

 

atte

 

Senior tri-captain goes up the ladder tohaulinaJ n
Thorton first half pass. In his last game at Wilson Field,

    

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Wiser scored a touchdown in helping the Generals to a
victory over the Samford Bulldogs.

Gridders smash Bulldogs

By WILLIAM KING
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee football
team won its third consecutive game
Saturday, overcoming an early 14-0
deficit to turn back the Samford Bull-
dogs 49-28 at Wilson Field.

The visitors needed only 14 seconds
to take a 7-0) lead when Greye Tate re-
turned the opening kickoff 89 yards
for a touchdown. Tate scored his sec-
ond touchdown less than five minutes
later on a 21-yard pass from Bulldog
quarterback Tommy Bledsoe, giving
Samford its 14-0 lead with 10 minutes

 

fhe Generals’ fullback Danny Jayne (33) rumbles around right end as
tailback Gene Girard (34) gets set to clear a path. Jayne carried the ball 12
times for 68 yards, his best day as a General this year. The Generals rolled

Rockbridge County’s
Component Stereo Center

for your home and car
Featuring: ‘ .
8 JVC, Boston Acoustic,
Design Acoustic, Panasonic,
Sony, Maxell, Audio Technica

A Division of
Value Mart

2175 Magnolia Ave., Buena Vista

>> >—>>>->-

\feasterbare)

KH

261-2544

 

remaining in the first quarter.

Just when it appeared as though
Samford was about to spoil W&L’s
Parents’ Weekend, as well as claim
its first victory of the season, Chris
Bleggi ignited the Generals by re-
turning the ensuing kickoff 90 yards
for touchdown, cutting the Bulldogs’
lead to 14-7.

W&L pulled to within one point on
its next possession when quarterback
Jon Thornton finished a six-play, 56-
yard drive by passing 16 yards to
tight end Ian Banwell for a touch-
down. Placekicker James White
missed the extra point attempt, leav-

ing Samford with a 14-13 lead.

W&L defensive end Craig West-
brook recovered a fumble at the Bull-
dog’s four yard line on Samford:s
next possession. Two plays later, full-
back Frank Surface scored on a two--
yard run, and Thornton passed to
tailback Gene Girard for the two-
point conversion, giving the Generals
a 21-14 lead.

Tate finished the scoring in the
wild first quarter when he returned
the following kickoff 86 yards for a
touchdown, tying the score at 21. Six

) Continued on Page 7

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

past Samford, 49-28, and look to cap off a winning season Saturday at

Lebanon Valley.

 

By Appointment 463-9588

 

    
  
  
    
      

o

VDRO DP ODODE LD PPO

y
§ §
, S

y
§ §
§ §
§ §
N S
§ The Shop for S
g PAPPAGALLO \
S 1g
§ Shoes, Clothing §
: & Accessories §
y \
§
) 23 NORTH MAIN STREET 4
Y LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA §
§ 463-5988 §

PP. PVP OVD LPI PPP

Marie's Hain Stylens

Old Main S«. Niall
Lexinjio 1, VA 24450

November 8, 1984 Page 6 |

 

John McEnroe
(believe it or not) is

good for the game

....Well, just when you thought he had
decided to clean up his act, Johnny Mac
(rather, Johnny Brat) has done it again.
Frankly, the first thing that strikes me is
that the spectacle witnessed (over and
over again) Sunday in Stockholm was pro-

 

TIME
OUT 0

 

 

 

3 By Mike — quced by the same character that sheep-
; Stachura __ ishly and innocently tries to sell us in TV
land Bic Shavers and Sports Illustrated

subscriptions. But at least this is some semblance of proof that the bad boy of*
tennis does have a tolerable side.

Sunday afternoon’s incident, in which said John McEnroe called the chair
umpire a jerk (as in ‘‘Answer my question, jerk!’’), sent a water glass flying
(right past the ear of his opponent Anders Jarryd), smashed a water bottle
(both the aforementioned being done with prodigious swings of his racket),
and rifled a tennis ball (again, with racket) at no one in particular and
everyone in general sitting in the arena, has been called by some the
highwater mark for McEnroe and his outbursts. Indeed, one tennis
magazine, prior to the Stockholm event, had called for McEnroe to be ban-.
ned for a year after his next outburst.

He will not be banned for a year, but that’s not to say he will get off scot
free. A 42-day suspension from participation in Grand Prix events was hand-
ed down Monday by the Men’s International Professional Tennis Council
because Junior exceeded the $7,500 limit in fines for the year. That ‘‘punish-
ment” (read in very loose terms) will be it, for all intents and purposes. Oh,
there is some talk that Mac will be forced out of Davis Cup play in a few
weeks, but it’s safe to assume that’s as likely as me working anywhere other
than Maxway after graduation.

The question of what to do with McEnroe is one that, unfortunately, is all
too specific to the sport of tennis. You cannot compare McEnroe’s situation
with any other in sport. His is not one like a Billy Martin’s. Martin erupts and
is thrown out of the game, and the same should go for McEnroe, some argue.
Well, begging the captain’s pardon, but if McEnroe’s tossed out, the game’s
over. Not so with the removal of Martin, or another player for that matter,
because there is always someone to fill the space vacated and play will go
on. What’s more, Martin and said player will still receive their paychecks.
McEnroe (we'll ignore endorsements and exhibitions for the present time)
won't.

So, we return to what to do with the misbehaving Mac. I say banning him,
from the game for a year is akin to a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the
head. They might be able to save you, but here’s a guess that it won’t be
much of a life: Tennis, which for the most part has the general popularity of
Skittle Pool, needs someone with the incredible skill of a McEnroe. In addi-
tion and maybe even more importantly, the game needs McEnroe’s per-
sonality (read: his outbursts and temper tantrums, as well as the nice things
he does are good for the game).

The point is that people, at least in the U.S. (Britons say they can’t tolerate
Superbrat, but something tells me they’re all living vicariously with every
“pits of the world!’’), like to come out and watch McEnroe yell and scream,
and if he happens to play some incredible tennis along the way, all the more
enjoyable.

Diehards, like myself, who still believe in that nonsense about sports-
manship and the gentlemen’s game, may find all this a bit hard to take. Isn’t
there something that can be done, we ask. Unfortunately, I think we are fac-
ed with the lonely prospect of hoping McEnroe behaves. Sure, let’s try to en-
force the Code of Conduct rules on Mac just like we do for everybody else. To
do anything else not only would fly in the face of reason, but also most likely
would do irreparable damage to the appeal of the game by taking away its
lifeblood...

....Whew...On to the Colonnade, where we find a deserving ODAC cham-
pionship team. A major tip of the hat goes to Coach-of-the-Year Dick Miller
and his harriers on their second conference crown in three years. This was
certainly a deserving group, and here’s a wish for more good things this
weekend in Sewanee as they look for another deserved honor, a team bid to
nationals...Glad to see the gridders shake off that 14-point deficit (read:
fluke) and come storming back. Saturday should prove to be the record-
breaker...Polo needed a miracle to upset Richmond at league champion-
ships Sunday. They didn’t get it, but that certainly doesn’t take anything
away from this group in my book. A team without the horses of previous
years, but definitely not short on any other qualities. Special commendation ] -
to Bobby Pearson on his earning 100 victories as a W&L polo player...Early .
winter word to the wise: Captain and 1983-84 Mr. Invincible Jeff Dixon won
his weight class at a preseason gig in Madison. Other General grapplers
represented themselves well, too. Hint: W&L wrestlers look strong again...
...Other news from the front: Our new man in the baseball front office, Peter
“L.A. is my lady’”’ Ueberroth is talking of fiddling with the DH rule. See,
Pete’s planning on surveying Mr. and Mrs. Baseball Fan on the DH and
making or not making some changes based on that survey. Personal to Pete:
You don’t have to do anything grandiose (read: louse something up) to prove
you're doing your job. Don’t make your L.A. (Profit City) Olympics look like
beginners’ luck....

.... Finally, looking to the south of us, I believe there may be the same type
of rumblings I heard last year about a red hot team that nobody thought
would do as well as it’s doing. Let’s just say, South Carolina-Nebraska in the
Orange Bowl for the national championship. Hint: If given the chance,
lightning (bedecked in maroon, black and white) will strike twice....

Grapplers look to be
deep and winners

 

 

 

 

WLUK SPORTSTALK
Sat. 4:30 to 6:00pm

Call 463-8442

 

 

 

SSSSSIASSSSS SS ISLS SSS SS J

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

oe

11 W. Nelson St.
463-2022

Watches and Jewelry Repairs
Gifts for All Occasions
We have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.
SLSSSISLSSSSAALASAAAALDALASSAAASS SAS ASASS SSAA ASAS AL

The Washington and Lee wrestling
Generals will be deep, flexible and,
above all, winners in the 1984-85
season.

‘‘We have a lot of good wrestlers in
our program and quite a few of them
will have good people at every weight
class and should have a chance at
another fine season,’’ head coach
Gary Franke said.

W&L’s 10 lettermen from last
year’s 12-2 team will compete with a
host of newcomers for starting jobs.
At 118 lbs. it appears that two
freshmen, Dave Cox and Steve Cas-
tle, will be the wrestlers to watch.
Junior Brian Lifsted, who posted a
combined 12-5 record at 118 and 126
last year, will likely get the nod at 126

  

lbs. Sophomore Jeff Mazza, who was
13-7 at 126 last year, will likely move
up to wrestle at 134 lbs. for this
season. At 142 lbs., junior Larry
Anker, who posted a 14-5 mark a year
ago, will be back to defend his start-
ing job. Sophomore Tim Walker, a
starter last year with an 8-12 record,

also will return to handle the duties ‘ '

at the 150 lb. weight division.

At 158 Ibs., freshman Kevin
McNamara has a good chance to
start, and at 167 lbs., junior Win
Phillips appears to have the
preseason advantage. The 177 lb.
weight division seems to be a toss-up
between seniors Joe O'Neill, who was
114 last year, and Greg Kendrick.
Senior Jeff Dixon, an undefeated
(19-0) performer last season, will be
the Generals’ man at 190 Ibs. At
heavyweight, senior Mark Weaver,
who has not wrestled at W&L prior to
this year, looks like the preseason
favorite.

‘Our preseason lineup is not cut in
stone,’ Franke said. ‘“‘We haven't
had wrestle-offs, so things could
change. But I do expect that most
wrestlers on the team will be asked to
contribute. We have quite a few
triangular and quadrangular meets
scheduled, so we will have to rely on
our team depth

Continued on Page 7
 

The Generals’ Todd Herman wins this battle for the ball in Saturday’s 3-0
loss at the hands of visiting Radford. Keith Scott (16) and Bill Holmes (4)

 

br -
ae

 

making their final record 6-8.

 

ie eee Te Le
By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

look on. The Generals finished their 1984 Campaign with a 3-1 win at VMI,

 

Football

 

(3 Continued from Page 6

touchdowns, including three on kick-
off returns, were recorded during the
first quarter alone.

.The Generals added two touch-
downs in the second quarter to take a
35-21 halftime lead. The first of these
seores came when slotback Tom Wi-
ser ran 35 yards on a misdirection
play for a touchdown. White added
the extra point, giving the Generals a
28-21 lead with 8:41 remaining in the
half. Thornton passed for his second
touchdown of the game about six
minutes later, hitting split end Hugh
Finkeistein for a 17-yard score.

- The second half was somewhat cal-
mer than the first as W&L scored

twice before allowing the Bulldogs to
score late in the game. Thornton
passed 53 yards to Bleggi for a touch-
down in the third quarter, making the
score 42-21.

Girard finished the scoring for the
Generals early in the fourth quarter
with a three-yard touchdown run.
After White kicked his fifth extra
point of the game, the Generals hada
49-21 lead with 14:54 remaining in the
game.

Samford scored a meaningless
touchdown during the final two min-
utes when reserve quarterback Scot-
ty King passed 27 yards to Gerald
Neaves, making the final score 49-28.

Thornton completed seven of 11
passes for 113 yards and three touch-
downs. Girard rushed for 113 yards
on 15 carries and scored once. Danny

Jayne carried 12 times for 68 yards,
and Surface had 54 yards on eight
carries. The Generals ran up 404
yards of total offense and had 23 first
downs against the Bulldogs.

“I was impressed with the way we
did not panic and kept our poise,”
head coach Gary Fallon said. ‘‘After
getting behind in the first quarter, we
could have cashed it in, but we fought
back.”’

The Generals (5-4) go after their
fifth consecutive winning season Sat-
urday when they play Lebanon Val-
ley College (1-8) in Annville, Pa.
W&L has not had five consecutive
winning seasons since it put together
a string of six from 1919 to 1924.

“This Saturday will be very impor-
tant,”’ Fallon said. ‘‘We will finish up

 

 

* The W&L soccer B team had its best season ever this fall. The team finish-

ed with a 4-1 record under the direction of head coach Joe Lyles. Players
are: Ist Row--Rick Coyle, Nick Thompson, Robert Ryan, James Sowersby,
John Woodham, Mark Gordon, Sam Obenshain, Sloan Farrell. 2nd Row--
Dave Hellberg, Andrew Hart, Tony Blok, Roderick Mees, Bob Sprot, Charles
Lyle, Tom McBride, John Aleman, Jeff Schwarz, Colter Pollock, Coach Joe

Lyles,

 

 

 

Travel Unlimited

| Come by for Ski Trip Brochures - on
| Charters to St. Thomas or Acapulco!

Make Christmas Plans Now!

 

nN

Call 463-7174

 

 

 

 

with either a 5-5 record or a 6-4 re-
cord. We cannot afford to take Leba-
non Valley for granted because if we
do, we will be setting ourselves up for
a loss.”’

W&L defeated Lebanon Valley
41-15 in 1983.

Polo 2nd in

By DAVIDNAVE ss

Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee water
polo team took second place in the
Southern League Championships at
Richmond last weekend.

The Generals lost to Richmond
19-10 in the final game of the tourna-
ment. Although the Generals did not

 

 

  

By Mark Mandel/W&L

 

By:

   

| |\czzse OP F |

 

 

THIS Fainay Satuaogy SOAS

100 pm
dePan’? feos ‘torium
ApmissioN ONLY $1.50

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1984, Page 7

Soccer ends '84
with win at VMI

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee soccer
team lost 3-0 at the hands of Radford
last Saturday but finished off its
season with a 3-1 victory over VMI
Tuesday afternoon at VMI.

The Radford squad was a “‘pretty
good team,”’ said head coach Rolf
Piranian. ‘‘They were a lot quicker
than we were, and we were just aw-
fully flat.”’

Radford scored twice in the first
half and gained a third goal off a mis-
take by a W&L player. ‘Each was a
major mistake by a member of our
team,’’ Piranian said. ‘‘Clearly, the
better team won.”’

Discussing the victory over VMI,

Piranian said, ‘‘We made the most of
our opportunities. The game was a
lot tighter than 3-1 leads you to
believe.”’

The Generals closed out their sea-
son with a record of six wins and
eight losses.

Evaluating the season, Piranian
Said, “We never quite got things
together the way we should have. The
season had some disappointments,
but they hung in there tough.”

Piranian named Gary Clements,
Rob Coleman, Jay Werner, Todd
Herman, Jeff Reichert and Mark Sul-
livan as six seniors who will be sorely
missed next year.

Talking about next year, Piranian
said, ‘Back to the drawing board. We
will have to do some things different-
ly.”

 

Wrestling

C) Continued from Page 6

 

W&L will compete in two of its own
invitational meets, which will include
eight teams, three quadrangular
meets, and two triangular competi-
tions.

“The Washington and Lee Invita-
tional (Dec. 1) will tell us a lot about
our abilities and capabilities. The op-
position should be formidable and
will provide a good test for our team.
Our dual meets with Hampden-
Sydney (Nov. 28) and Lynchburg
(Dec. 5) should also be good in-
dicators,”’ Franke said.

The Generals got an early indica-
tion of how good they may be in spots
over the weekend at the James
Madison Takedown Tournament.
The General wrestlers participating
in the event were led by Jeff Dixon,
who won his weight class. A fine per-

formance was also turned in by
Larry Anker, who finished third in
the tournament.

After the Dec. 6 clash against
Lynchburg, the rest of the Generals’
schedule shapes up like this: The
team will take a little over a month
off between competitions, not resum-
ing action again until Jan. 12, when
they will travel to the Hampden-
Sydney Quadrangular. A week later
the Genrals host a quad and four

days after that they are scheduled to
participate in the Virginia State
Triangular. Other meets of note in-
clude a quad at Lynchburg, a
triangular meet at LaSalle in
Philadelphia and the eight-team
W&L College Invitational.

The Generals will be pointing
toward the NCAA Eastern Regionals
to be held at Trenton State in the mid-
dle of February and the NCAA Divi-
sion III National Tournament, slated
for two weeks after the regionals.

league, Easterns next

win their fourth consecutive
Southern League Championship,
they did earn a berth in the Eastern
Championships at West Point this
weekend.

The Generals (18-12-1) did pick up
four wins before bowing to the
Spiders in the finals. W&L collected
victories against South Carolina,
14-11, George Washington, 12-3, UNC-
Wilmington, 12-8, and U.Va., 15-6.

Concerning the loss to Richmond,
Remillard said that he had made two
major coaching mistakes. “I had a
bad game,”’ he said. Remillard add-
ed that he had called for a wrong
defensive strategy that allowed Rich-
mond to score with less than 10
seconds left in the first half. He also
said that he let Tim Stanford play in
the second quarter, despite his being
ejected from the game twice. Stan-
ford picked up his third ejection in
the second quarter and the All-
American could not play for the rest
of the game.

Remillard said, “‘The loss was
disappointing but I’m not totally
discouraged with what happened.”
He asserted that his team played
their best water polo of the season
last weekend.

This weekend the Generals are

seeded eighth in a field of eight teams
at the Eastern Championships at
West Point. The championships
begin Saturday and continue through
Sunday.

W&L opens the tournament against
Brown, the number one seeded team
in the East. Remillard stated that
Brown is much superior to the 1984
Generals and that he and his team
were working on a game plan that
will be effective against the team
that they will play if they lose to
Brown. Should the Generals lose in
the first round this weekend, they
will play the loser of the Richmond
vs. Iona game. Remillard already
knows about Richmond by virtue of
being in the same conference. He has
spent most of the earlier part of the
week learning about the Iona team.

W&L and Iona have played com-
mon opponents this season. Both
teams have faced Army and Slippery
Rock. The Generals lost both games,
while Iona won both games. Regard-
less, Remillard said that his players
possess a very positive attitude con-
cerning this weekend's competition.
Remillard said, ‘‘This is not a quit-
ting group. They are making every
commitment to get better.”’

 

PAR a ema
€all today and save with
this special offér.

Re ig lad

«1984 Pune Hut Inc

Pizza Hut, Inc Limited Delivery Area
Offer good only on regular prices through

463-7000

 

Fe ee
SPECIAL DELIVERY

Get the great taste of

Pizza Hut" pizza delivered
to your door when you call ,
Pizza Hut’ Special Delivery. |

A

 

i $2 OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA
OR $1 OFF ANY MEDIUM

Get a Pizza Hut’ 6 topping Supreme in any size
for the price of a 1 topping pizza in the same size.

a

8

i Piease menbon coupon when ordering One coupon per party
e per delivery at participating Pizza Hut* Special Delivery units
i Not valid for dine-in or carryout, or in conjunction with any other
i Pizza Hut* offer 1/20¢ redemption value © 1984

f
i
#

 

 

SPECI
izza
11-30-84 ~ Hut

FREE
600 E. Nelson St. DELIVERY
Lexington, VA

 

 

 

 
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1984

 

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Marc Gordon works on his computer in his dormitory room.
Gordon is one of a number of W&L students who now have personal com-

puters at school.

EC warned of wary

 

By ANDY HOPPES
Staff Reporter

 

A group of Law School students
told EC members Sam Dalton, An-
drew Caruthers and Michael Black
that the EC would have to make a
special effort next year to make
female undergraduates comfortable
with a male-dominated honor sys-
tem.

Four law students and members of
the Student Organization Subcom-
mittee of the Coeducation Steering
Committee agreed Tuesday night
that the EC should ensure that
women undergraduates understand
the honor system, have some input
into the system and do not perceive
the system as being biased against
them.

“Even though we didn’t finally
decide anything, it kind of sowed the
field in people’s minds. These things
need to be discussed,’’ said Black,
the chairman of the Student Organi-
zation Subcommittee and a junior re-
presentative to the Executive
Committee.

The EC will “‘have to go out of its
way” to take women’s opinions into
account until there are women in all

four classes and women on the EC,
Black said.

Both law students and faculty
members told the EC members that,
with the wide discretion the EC
possesses in the prosecution of honor
violations, women might perceive
the conviction of a woman as a result
of bias.

Some students pointed out that pro-
blems could arise due to the fact that
men and women might disagree
about what constitutes a dishon-
orable action in addition to the tradi-
tional definition of lying, cheating
and stealing. Caruthers noted that
the EC traditionally has not con-
sidered stealing a road sign an honor
offense if it was done as a prank
because ‘boys will be boys.” Of-
fenses of that nature are turned over
to the Student Control Committee,
Caruthers said.

Several women at the meeting
questioned whether an all-male EC
would be able to apply the similar
test of “girls will be girls’ to a
female undergraduate charged with
an honor violation outside the defini-
tion of lying, cheating and stealing.

Professors James M. Phemister
and Jean C. Dunbar suggested that
when a female student is charged

Attention W&L Greeks:

rm
©
:
aS
fae

 

 

Computers come to campus

By PEDRO CARROLL
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee students long have been
known for bringing such possessions as stereos,
refrigerators and BMWs with them to campus.

But this year, students are beginning to bring
something else with them — computers.

Some students who have added computers to
the posters, books and empty bottles in their dor-
mitory rooms say the computers are valuable ina
variety of ways, in addition to the obvious aca-
demic benefits.

“I’m just a good old Southern boy who doesn’t
want to do any work,’’ said Barney Robinson, a
freshman politics major. ‘‘That’s the reason for
technology, to give man time to pursue other acti-
vities.”’

Robinson, who said he uses his computer pri-
marily for word processing, added that he does
not consider himself to be a ‘‘computer whiz kid.”
He has a working knowledge in BASIC, a
programming language, and is taking a compu-
ter science course here.

Describing his Apple Macintosh as ‘‘just a con-
venience, just like a big calculator.’’ Robinson
said that having a computer reduces the amount
of time he spends on some subjects.

Professor Theodore Sjoerdsma, the chairman
of the new computer science department, said,
‘‘A personal computer will obviously help them
overcome the stages of fright. It’ll help students
to understand a computer system and that they
are in control of the machine.”’

Having a computer is viewed as both an aca-
demic and a social tool by freshman Brad Shaw, a
journalism major. “We're finding more people
Standing in line to play the games,” he said, “and
the girls still love the biorhythm program.”’

Shaw, who had some previous experience with
computers in high school, said the capabilities
and potential of computers intrigue him.

“A computer opens the door to the space age,”’
he explained. ‘‘I like it because it’s visual. I look
at the computer as something mysterious.”

The academic benefits were the deciding factor
when sophomore Matt Lewis, an English major,
bought his computer.

“Originally,’’ he said, ‘‘I bought it for word pro-
cessing. I decided upon Apple Macintosh because
it has good word processing and graphics. It, al-
so, doesn’t require computer knowledge.”’

Although he learned some computer program-
ming in junior high and high school, Lewis said he
still considers himself an amateur. He does not
have any game programs and said he uses his
computer primarily for studying.

Acknowledging that computers are conveni-
ences, he added that he believes students still
have to work.

“There’s a big danger with computers. Sure,
it’s convenient to have a computer, but it’s a
mistake to say that the computer will do all the
work. You have to edit and correct grammatical
mistakes,”’ he said. ‘‘It’s just an emotional tool,
later a business tool. Computers have no social
attraction “

Because students who have personal compu-
ters use those instead of the campus computer
system, Sjoerdsma said, the personal computers
help keep the campus system from becoming ov-
erloaded. He encouraged students to obtain a per-
sonal computer to ‘‘become familiar with some
systems.”

Students who have personal computers and
want to connect them with the main campus com-
puter must complete an application in the com-
puter center in order to obtain a user number.
Once a student has a user number, he remains on
the system until he graduates.

A telephone and an RS232 interface are necess-
ary to connect personal computers with the cam-*
pus system. “The type of computer doesn’t mat-
ter as long as they have the right interface,” said
Ruth Floyd, coordinator of academic computer
applications.

coeds

with an offense in one of these grey
areas of the honor system, the EC
should seek the advice of other
women in the student body to deter-
mine if such an action should be con-
sidered dishonorable.

Dunbar said that although the EC
would be under no obligation to ac-
cept the advice of such a group, if
both the women consulted and the EC
agreed that the offense was dishonor-
able, the EC could be certain its ver-
dict was fair.

Black said he thought this idea of
asking women’s advice as to whether
an action was dishonorable during
the investigation of a possible honor
violation was a good one. He added
that the EC always tries to consider
such things as classroom atmosphere
and other relevant factors during the
investigation of a possible honor of-
fense.

Black noted that the EC might be
able to implement the advisory idea
by having a woman on the three-
member EC investigating team that
looks into possible honor violations.
Two of the members of the investiga-
ting team are EC members, but the
third member is a student selected
from the same school as the accused,
Black explained.

DOMINO’S
PIZZA
. DELIVERS...

$500 Cash or a VCR

To the fraternity purchasing the most pizzas between
November 3 and November 16, 1984.

Domino’s Pizza GREEK WARS Official rules:

1. Both small and large pizzas count.

2. Specify which fraternity the pizzas count for when ordering.
The pizzas do not actually have to be delivered to the house.

3. There is a 10% discount, plus free napkins, on an order of 10 or
more large pizzas!*

4. With 48 hours notice for an order of 30 or more large pizzas, you
will receive not only the 10% discount and napkins, but also a
FREE large size cold beverage. (Deposit on beverage container
& dispensing equipment will be paid by the house until returned
to Domino’s Pizza.)*

5. Rule no. 4 will be honored until December 31, 1984, even though
the contest will be over.

6. Contest officially starts at 11AM on November 3, 1984 and ends
at the close of the store on November 16, 1984 (2AM Nov. 17)

7. This contest is good at the Lexington location only. Prizes will
be awarded on November 26, 1984.

*Not Good With Any Other Discount, Promotion, Coupon, etc.

463-7375

23 S. Jefferson St.

Our Drivers carry less
than $20.00.
Limited delivery area.

e
ad
pretend
reat

Audience rants as debate rages

 

By JON THORNTON
Staff Reporter

 

On the eve of the 1984 election,
members of the W&L forensics team
gathered for a confrontation Monday
night in Northen Auditorium to
debate the resolution: America
needs Ronald Reagan.

The relatively sparse crowd was
asked to sit on the right side if they
were pro-Reagan and to sit on the left
if they opposed Reagan.

The ‘“‘Bad Guys” who were oppos-
ing the resolution, Rick Graves and
Rob Gresham, continually argued
that Reagan’s policies ‘‘could not be
pinned down,” and that his “‘vague-
ness and simplicity are reasons that
he is so popular in the polls.’

The “Good Guys,’’ John Starks and
Mike Herring, cited statistics related
to the deficit and military strength as
reasons supporting America’s need

Former student indicted for forgery :

By PAUL FOUTCH
News Editor

William Addison Vaughan Jr., a
Washington and Lee senior last year,
was indicted Monday by the Lex-
ington and Rockbridge Grand Jury
on four charges of check forging.

The grand jury charged that
Vaughan forged two checks dated
May 24 and 30 and totalling $2,300 on
the account of James Edward Abbe
IV, a classmate of Vaughan’s.

Vaughan, who had fulfilled his
degree requirements at the end of
last year and who hasn’t returned to
school this year, is having his diplo-
ma withheld until after his trial in

for Reagan. Herring noted the in-
creased ‘‘confidence that Reagan
brings to the White House,” and fur-
ther commented that America’s self-
respect has increased in the past four
years.

In the British Parliamentary style
of debate, the crowd members were
encouraged to voice their opinions,
and they repeatedly took part in the
discussion.

When Stark was listing the addition
in the U.S. weapons systems, from
the opposition’s side came the chant,
“Kill, Kill, Kill!” A member of the
pro-Reagan camp quickly retorted,
“They save your life, sucker!”’

Herring also drew crowd partici-
pation when he said the debt was
declining under Reagan. Again a
crowd member responded with

“What? Is Nancy buying all her
stuff at Sears?”

A vote was held at the end of the

Rockbridge County Circuit Court on
the four felony charges.

Also Monday, the owner of the
Rockbridge Video Tape center was
indicted on a charge of possession
with intent to distribute pornograph-
ic videotapes.

The grand jury, which indicted
eight other people on various counts
in its last of four meetings this year,
charged Wayne Douglas Butler with
possession of the tapes and his em-
ployee, Pat Mace, with the actual
renting of the tapes. Both of the
charges are misdemeanors.

Butler said this week that by rent-
ing the tapes he was ‘‘defending the
right of free choice.”

debate, another characteristic of
British Parliamentary procedure, to
determine the crowd’s feeling about
the proposition — Britain’s method of
determining the victor. Fifteen voted
affirmatively that America needs
Ronald Reagan. Ten people voted
negatively on this resolution, and
among them were students who had
earlier indicated that they were pro-
Reagan by sitting in the designated
area.

Public Speaking Professor Halford
Ryan chaired the debate and was in
charge of crowd control.

The W&L debate team recently
began experimenting with the new
form of intercollegiate debating, in
which the toughest opposition often
comes from the audience.

Last month W&L debaters toured ‘

four colleges where they engaged in
the audience-style debating on topics
ranging from the re-election of Presi-
dent Reagan to coeducation.

“T feel that I am not breaking any
law,” Butler added.

He said he did not advertise or dis-
play the tapes in question, he made
the customers renting the tapes sign
a form saying they would not show
the tapes to minors and he required
that renters of the tapes be at least
21.

He added that as Mace’s employer,
he would be responsible for the
charges brought against Mace.

The grand jury also indicted two
men on drug charges: Joseph Fran-
cis Link on a charge of oonspiring to
sell cocaine, and Kelly Ross Miller on
a charge of manufacturing mariju-
ana.

 

Read

©) Continued from Page 1
Pack,” the Pack court document
says.

It maintains that when Pack met
with Read in the fall of 1983 ‘‘regard-
ing the prospective employment of

String quartet

The internationally acclaimed
Audubon Quartet will present the
second performance of this year’s
Rockbridge Concert-Theatre Series
Wednesday at 8:15 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

Currently artists-in-residence at
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University, the quartet has won
three world-wide competitions.

Each season, the quartet tours
throughout Europe and the United
States and gives many special per-
formances.

In the summer of 1980, they judged
the International Cello Competition

 

2378 Beech Ave.
Buena Vista

  

dot gH HH yy AU Eps
Connections U

Open 7:00 AM - 12:00 Midnight Seven Days A Week

GF Mason’s TV and Music

Guitars¢ Banjos¢Mandolinse¢ Violins
Drums®PA Systems¢Ampliphiers¢
Microphones®Strings and Accessories

8:00-5:30 Mon.-Sat. Wed. 8:00-12:00

the prosecutor in a civil matter unre-
lated to this case,’ Pack provided in-
formation about unrelated matters.
“Jeffrey Pack was subsequently
summonsed to testify for the Special
Grand Jury regarding these mat-
ters,” itsays.

Read said in the response that
Pack talked briefly with him ‘‘about

here Wed.

in Brazil. During the 1981-82 season,
they toured and conducted a residen-
cy in the People’s Republic of China
— the first American quartet in 15
years to beso honored.

The quartet also performed at the
White House for former President
Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime
Minister Menachem Begin.

Washington and Lee, Southern
Seminary Junior College and
Virginia Military Institute students
with their student identification
cards will be admitted to Wednes-
day’s program at nocharge.

261-2381

eacailll
TT

  

  

Deavers Alley

203 North Main St., Lexington
463-5119/463-1100

    
   
    
 

     
  

witwidted

 

We'll type all your papers or resumes!

Get your papers typed professionally any time you need by just calling us
ahead of time or stop hy and wait. The choice is up to you! Copies of anything

done while you wait! !

ad Magy t nggytFeag ae ttaga et aged

an alleged honor offense while he was
at VMI;....nothing of that conversa-
tion involved drugs; nothing of that
brief conference was revealed to the
special grand jury.”

“The defendant was implicated by
numerous cadets who testified before
the Special Grand Jury that he was a
drug dealer,’’ the response adds.

The Spencer motion describes
what Walrod said is his case: “A
friend of Jeffrey Pack’s had earlier
employed the prosecutor in his ca-
pacity as a private attorney to repre-
sent the friend in a civil matter unre-
lated to the subject matter under in-
vestigation by the Special Grand
Jury. The prosecutor accepted em-
ployment by this client on the condi-
tion that the client agree to submit to
hypnosis.”’

Walrod said he hired Read to de-
fend him in a VMI honor case in
which Walrod was accused of receiv-
ing unacknowledged assistance on an
engineering homework paper. He
said that under hypnosis, he discuss-
ed his drug habits and those of a num-
ber of other VMI cadets. He then
withdrew from VMI on Read’s ad-
vice.

“Mr. Read was in a client-lawyer
relationship and took the information
and followed up on in in the special
grand jury,”’ Walrod said by tele-
phone from his home in Brentwood,
Tenn.

‘“‘My main goal is to help Jeff Pack
and not to necessarily hurt John
Read.’”’ He said that Spencer and
Pack were ‘‘definitely anti-John
Read for sure.”’

—By Mike Allen

yg yt

      

 

  

S
