THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

WASHINGPON @ LSE UNIVERSITY

LEXING TOM Vz aaa
~ MAY £0 1985°°°

- W&L tennis invited to its championship party

,

‘

 
   
      
  

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

W&L is more than just host for the event
The Generals’ tennis team is represented in
both the team championship and the singles

 

The big tennis party will get started Sunday
when teams and players from 37 schools
begin arriving in Lexington for the 1985 NCAA
Division III Men’s Tennis Championships to
be held all next week at Washington and Lee.

The championships will be staged in two
phases. Monday through Wednesday, the
team championships will be held. The in-
dividual championships in both singles and
doubles begin Thursday and conclude on Sun-

e finals,

   

day with th

and doubles competition.

Teams from Kalamazoo, Swarthmore, St
Thomas, Redlands, Claremont-Mudd
Scripps, Gustavus Adolphus and Carleton, in
addition to W&L, will vie for the team title,

The eight-team group includes all the
previous national champions: Kalamazoo in
1976 and 1978; Swarthmore in 1977 and 1981;
Redlands in 1979, 1983 and 1984; Gustavus
Adolphus in 1980 and 1982 and Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps in 1981.

Kalamazoo is the early favorite to earn its

 

   

VOLUME 84, NUMBER 28

Sports

Woofter
wins triathlon

 

Tennis
Shorts

 

Recruiting, anyone?

All students interested in work-
ing on the Student Recruitment
Committee next year should sign
up for interviews in the Admis-
sions Office by next Thursday,
May 16. All current members
must confirm their positions for
next year.

Deuce

The W&L theater department
will present ‘‘Two Lovers of
Verona,’’ an original musica! bas-
ed on William Shakespeare’s ‘“‘Ro-
meo and Juliet,”” on May 17, 19
and 20 at 8 p.m. in the University
Theatre.

Drop shot

Fancy Dress T-shirts have been
reduced from $9 to $7 and are
available from Carole Chappell.

Single fault

“The Castle’’ will be shown by
the Politics Film Festival tonight
at 7 in Commerce School 327.

Double fault

Next week’s politics film will be
“Robinson Crusoe,’”’ on Wednes-
day, May 15, and Thursday, May
16, at 7 p.m. in Commerce School
327.

Serve ’'em up

Subcommittee appointments for
next year will be made by the
Executive Committee on Tuesday
and Thursday at 6:30 p.m.

Ball boys?

All students and faculty mem-
bers interested in helping with
next week’s NCAA Division III
Tennis Championships — should
contact Cynda Rankin in the main
athletic office or call her at
463-8687.

Ruling, please

The Calyx will conduct a survey
of W&L slang next Wednesday
during lunch and dinner in Evans
Dining Hall. Categories include
names for courses, names for pro-
fessors and casual slang.

Sudden death

The Cadaver Society needs to
contact the Calyx about its page in
the book.

Game,

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity is
sponsoring a 100-hour slow-pitch
softball marathon to benefit the
American Cancer Society next
Saturday, May 18, beginning at 9
a.m. on the W&L baseball field.
Any nine- or 10-man team that
makes a minimum $100 contribu-
tion can participate. For further
information, contact Mark Mc-
Donough or Alex Castelli at
463-5230.

Set,

Senior picture reprints ordered
in February now may be picked
up in Carole Chappell’s office.

Match

Attention seniors! If you are
looking for a job, Entrylink/USA
may be able to help place you in
one of more than 28,000 entry-level
positions. A national computer
database, Entrylink/USA places
people in numerous industries
around the country. To find out
more, come to Commerce School
221 Sunday at 7:30 p.m.

 

third national team title. The Hornets have

been ranked No. 1 all season Jong by the Inter
collegiate Tennis Coaches’ Association

The consensus among the participating
coaches is that this year’s field is one of the

most balanced groups in recent years. Robert
Bonner, head coach of No. 7-ranked Carleton
said, ‘‘There’s a real concentration of talent
this year. I expect it to be a very even tourna
ment. I don’t expect all four seeded teams to
win in the first round.”’

Coach Ralph Rabago of California’s Red
lands, the defending national champions,
agrees. ‘‘There’s not someone who’s heads
and tails above the rest,”’ he said

 

Brooks Brothers?

 

and

 

Page 6

Bunting

Bush

 

Page 4

 
  
    

Competition in the team event begins with
matches Monday at9a.m.and2p.m

The individual singles and doubles competi-
tion is expected to be led by many of the
players from teams in the team competition.
Swarthmore’s Jeff Krieger and Shep David-
son are ranked No. 1 and No. 2 by ITCA and
are expected to lead the charge in the singles
competition. ._Kalamazoo’s doubles team of
Alex Palladino and Tim Corwin is expected to
be top seeds in doubles.
A a RRR aS ean NOMA
~ For additional coverage of the national ten-
nis championships, see Page 6.

 

    

NATIONAL
MEN’S TENNIS
CHAMPIONSHIPS

a

 

 

 

Division iH
WASHINGTON & ‘
LEE UNIV.

MAY
13-19

 

 

 

Your Weekend Weather

 

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

WASHINGTON ANDLEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

Hill, frats
spruce up

for alumni

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

 

 

While the Buildings and Grounds
Department has been pruning the
bushes and cutting the grass on the
Hill this week, fraternity members
have been cleaning up their houses as
both groups are united in making the
campus sparkle for nearly 500 alum-
ni expected to return this weekend
for Alumni Weekend.

Alumni activities begin tonight at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel with a speech by
Ross V. Hersey ('40), a former news-
paper editor and public relations
specialist for Du Pont.

Other events for the alumni include
a panel discussion about women at
Washington and Lee tomorrow at 2.
p.m., a reunion dance tomorrow:
evening, an Alumni Association gen-
eral meeting Saturday at 10:30 a.m.
and class banquets Saturday even-
ing.

“‘We’ve been working on the week-
end since before Alumni Weekend
last year,’’ said assistant Alumni
Secretary L.C. “‘Buddy” Atkins (68).
‘Wednesday of this coming week, I
send a thank-you note to the hotels
See Alumni, Page 4

EC given

 

”

By MARSHALL BOSWELL difference,

ob

  

eed

Washington and Lee’s Al Roberts skies for the ball during the Generals’
rugby match Saturday against Virginia Military Institute on VMI’s Parade
Ground. The Generals lost, 10-6. (Story, Page 7)

plan eliminating
president’s honor trial vote

‘In a lot of ways, it won’t make any
said junior representa-

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

“T think the president should have
a deciding vote in the event of a tie,”’

Showers possible tomorrow;
cloudy but warm for weekend

 

MAY 9, 1985

Panel seeks

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Chief Editor

 

Modifying its earlier position that
drug use or possession should not be
punishable by the University, the
Drug Policy Review Committee has
recommended that drug regulations
continue to be enforced in the dor-
mitories.

The committee voted Friday to re-
commend that the dean of students
maintain ‘‘dormitory regulations
prohibiting the possession of mari-
. juana, illegal forms of, opiate, am-
phetamine, hallucinogen or co-
caine.”

The proposal directs dormitory
counselors to report violations to the
dean for ‘‘appropriate administra-
tive action.”

In its original report, the commit-
tee specifically exempted the posses-
sion or use of drugs from a Univer-
sity disciplinary structure it propos-
ed.

The new recommendation still
would remove narcotics use or sales
from the jurisdiction of the Student
Control Committee, and applies only
to the dormitories.

“It did seem like a reasonable com-
promise from the proposal we first
made,”’ said psychology Professor
Leonard E. Jarrard, chairman of the
committee.

Jarrard said the changes were
made ‘‘in response to the various

Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee presi-
dent would not have a vote in closed
honor trials under a_ proposal
presented Monday to the EC by the
White Book Revisions Committee.

The proposal, which met with
strong objection by some members of
the EC, was one of 24 White Book
revisions submitted to the EC.

The EC is scheduled to vote on the
proposed changes Monday.

The revisions stress that the presi-
dent’s role should be as an overseer
anda moderator. They also state that
the president’s function ‘‘is to main-
tain order and enforce the procedure
of the Honor System Hearings.”’

tive Pat Hayden, who is also a mem-
ber of the White Book Revisions Com-
mittee.

EC President Cole Dawson said:
“My initial idea stemmed from the
fact that the closed hearing is a fact-
finding body — not a prosecuting
hearing. The president should hear
both sides of the issue. It is his job to
remind them that it is a fact-finding
hearing. That way, if the president
has done his job, then the committee
can vote and the president doesn’t
need to.”

President-elect John Lewis, senior
representative Bob Tomaso and first-
yearllaw representative James
Crutchfield said they opposed the
changes.

Crutchfield said.

Lewis said that he thought the pres-
ident’s vote should remain intact
because he is elected to represent the
entire student body.

“The president does have to work
as a moderator,’’ Lewis said, ‘‘but he
is also one of only three people elect-
ed by the whole student body to re-
present them. Now you're taking
away his vote. The student body
wanted him there to vote for them.”

Hayden acknowledged that in or-
der to increase the president’s role as
an overseer and moderator, the com-
mittee had to increase his role as a
neutral element.

“That was our compromise,” Hay-

See Honor, Page 5

 

 

McHenry: Coaches are disappointed with ’85 recruits

 

From Staff Reports

 

The coaching staff is disappointed with the inter-
collegiate athletic potential of the incoming freshman
class, Athletic Director William D. McHenry told a Uni-
versity audience Tuesday night.

McHenry was a panelist for ‘‘Preserving Tradition
through Transition,” a symposium on the possible ef-
fects of coeducation that was sponsored by Omicron Del-
ta Kappa, the honorary leadership organization,

The panel of three students, four professors and two
administrators addressed an audience of about 40. Sen-
ior Chris Williams moderated the discussion, which was
punctuated by moments of both humor and friendly
disagreement.

McHenry made his remarks in response to a question
from a student, who asked about rumors that coaches
had not ‘‘gotten’”’ many of the key potential athletes they
had recruited.

“The increased College Board scores and the reduced
number of male students that is predicted could affect
our recruiting,’’ McHenry began. ‘Hopefully the yield of
our recruiting will offset that.”’

“T don’t think that’s happened this year,’’ he said
“Our yield this year has not been what we anticipated or
hoped for.’’

“T think the general perception by our coaches at the
present time is great disappointment with the efforts at
recruiting that have been made so far,”’ he continued. ‘I
think the teams that will suffer the most are the large
team sports.”

A. Page Remillard, a physical education professor
and coach of the swimming and water polo teams, said
from the audience that athletes ‘‘have to be students
first.”’

He added that attempts by the athletic department to
influence admissions decisions are limited to comments
such as, ‘‘Maybe you could read this file twice.”’

Other highlights of the 90-minute symposium;

eAssociate Dean of the College Pamela H. Simpson,
chair of the Coeducation Steering Committee, warned
that coeducation is not a panacea for everything that ails
the University.

‘Whenever a problem comes up, there’s gotten to be a
little invocation that says, ‘But that'll all change next
year when the women are here,’ *’ she said

“If anything, we’ll have a problem because we think
they'll solve all the problems

Associate Dean of Students Dan N. Murphy, who is al-

so an assistant director of admissions, agreed. ‘‘Let’s
not raise our expectations of the incoming class too far,”’
he said.

‘They are not all superstudents and, indeed, they are
not going to solve all of the questions,’ he continued. ‘‘I
don’t want to put off the students who are here now and
have them say, ‘My God, these people are going to come

in and take over the world
‘These are kids, too.”’

eSarah K. Wiant, a law school librarian and professor
who was in the first coeducational! class when the Wash
ington and Lee Law School began admitting women in
1972, said she finds unnecessary some of the ‘‘flag

See Coed, Page 4

points that have been made by facul-
ty members in meetings and in infor-
mal conversation and to the concerns
of the dormitory counselors and the
Executive Committee.”’

The 12-member drug policy com-
mittee, formed in September by Uni-
versity President John D. Wilson at
the request of the Board of Trustees,
issued its initial recommendations in
March. The proposals dealt with the
school’s drug and alcohol policies
and disciplinary system.

The report was discussed briefly at
the April 1 faculty meeting, in more
detail at an April 24 meeting of the
Faculty Discussion Club and again
Monday at the faculty meeting.

Jarrard said Wilson will schedule a

 

Sad % a5 PS ¢

«ag Sanctions for
© dorm drug use

special faculty meeting, possibly
next week, for further discussion of
the proposal in ‘‘a much less formal
way.”

Jarrard said faculty opinion
“spreads to the two poles of the con-
tinuum — from one point of view that
would be extremely conservative, to
the opposite extreme, where a person
would tend to be very, very liberal.”

“As in most debates, most people
don’t say anything, so you don’t real-
ly know what they think,’’ he added.

The original plan had been for the
faculty’s recommendation on a drug
and disciplinary policy to be ready

‘for the May 24-25 Board of Trustees
meeting, but Jarrard said that is not
a requirement.

“The president has emphasized
that he wants to take the pressure off
making a decision before the board
next meets,”’ Jarrard said. ‘‘If it re-
quires going into next fall, so be it.
We would hope, though, that it would
come in the next two weeks.”’

The committee’s ‘‘additional re-
commendations” were passed Fri-
day by a unanimous vote by the nine
members present.

eIn addition to the statements on
drugs, the recommendation about
dormitory enforcement directs the
dean of students to add to dorm regu-
lations ‘‘a statement prohibiting the
possession of alcohol by those not
legally permitted to purchase” it.

“One can make a reasonable argu-
ment that with freshmen being away
from home for the first time, they do
need more concern and direction
than others,”’ Jarrard said.

“So it seemed reasonable to try to
continue with this policy of having
dormitory counselors report to the
dean any violation of the rules or
regulations of the University — in
this case, the possession or use of il-
legal substances, including alcohol,’’
he continued.

“The Dean of Students’ office is in
a much better position to pro-
vide...penalties if they’re necessa-
ry,”’

Jarrard emphasized that the com-
mittee has attempted to make ‘‘a
very clear distinction’ between ac-
See Drugs, Page 4

 

 

By Sean Connolly/The Ring-tum Phi

While history Professor I. Taylor Sanders II listens, Athletic Director

William D. McHenry

outlines the effects of coeducation on athletic

recruiting. Sanders and McHenry were participating in a symposium Tues-
day night sponsored by Omicron Delta Kappa.
 

 

 

Page 2

OPINION
lf at first...

The proposals Monday night by the White Book Revisions
Committee are a refreshing and practical look at the Honor
System at Washington and Lee. Some of the proposals, how-
ever, do present problems, and they ought to be carefully ex-
amined before being included in the White Book.

One of the disturbing proposals is the amendment calling
for the Executive Committee president to serve as a neutral
moderator in the closed hearing. The EC president is one of
only three students elected by the student body as a whole,
and perhaps no greater responsibility is his than enforce-
ment of the Honor System. To render the president neutral
during the closed hearing would silence a voice whose opi-
nion and know-how are greatly needed. Asking the president
to remain silent during closed hearing questioning while
later allowing him to deliberate on the accused’s guilt or in-
nocence removes any facade of neutrality that may have
been erected.

To remedy this situation, perhaps the EC might appoint at
the beginning of each year a group of its members familiar
with the White Book. Members of this group, composed of re-
turning EC members, would serve on a rotating basis as the
neutral moderator and would not participate in the deliber-
ations and would not vote. This would relieve one member
from always being the neutral party while allowing the ac-
cused to have the opportunity for the fair trial he is promised.

In this case, it is the perception of fairness that is para-
mount. When the EC can investigate, try in a closed hearing
and then prosecute in the open hearing — with the same indi-
viduals leading the proceedings throughout — there exists
some inherent conflict. At least with a modification in the
role of one member of the EC, this problem with the supposed
neutrality/fact-finding nature of the closed hearing can be at
least partially resolved.

Secondly, the proposal for the Executive Committee advo-
cate seems to raise more problems than it is worth. The pro-
posal asks that a member of the student body, presumably a
law student well-versed in legal procedures, be allowed to sit
in on all EC hearings in case any of those hearings should
result in an open trial in which such an advocate’s legal ser-
vices might be used. Such a proposal is tantamount to the
addition of a fourth law representative to the EC and would
only serve to add yet another member to the process. That is
not needed.

The sound additions to Section O dealing with the confiden-
tiality of all proceedings are a welcome clarification. After
the gossip and whispering of two weeks ago before an open
trial, the need for enforcement of the confidentiality clause is
obvious. We can only hope that the student body as a whole
will abide by the secrecy that cloaks all the proceedings and
allow the accused in any case the right to the fair trial that he
deserves. Gossip and speculation never acquit anyone.

Finally, the proposal to amend the section dealing with
transcripts ought to be rejected. A student who admits his
guilt by withdrawing before a closed hearing should not re-
ceive the same punishment as a student who exercises his
right to appeal to a student body hearing. ‘‘Not in good stand-
ing’ ought to be reserved for those students who have been
found guilty by their peers, and not students who honorably
admit their guilt and withdraw without the fanfare of the
closed or open hearing.

‘Film at eleven ’

For four years, I had looked forward to graduation with
both anticipation and disappointment. The source of the an-
ticipation is fairly obvious. The disappointment, though, re-
sulted from knowledge of the fact that the only speakers at
my graduation would be the student body president and the
University president. I had always felt a certain twinge of
regret, of missing out on something, because no major politi-
cal figure or business leader would mark my graduation with
an inspirational address.

Until Sunday.

Hampden-Sydney College scored what was considered to
be a major public relations coup by getting Vice President
George Bush to speak at its graduation ceremony Sunday. In-
deed, having a figure such as Bush at a graduation ceremony
is a nice touch, but its real value should be questioned.

Along with Bush came a cadre of Secret Service agents and
White House aides and officers — all about as inconspicuous
at the graduation as someone wearing a polyester tie. And
then of course there were the media. If one of the college’s
goals in inviting Bush was to attract coverage of the gradua-
tion, it succeeded. Nearly all of Virginia’s newspapers and
television stations ran stories on the event. W&L’s gradua-
tion, on the other hand, routinely is ignored by the media.

In this case, though, if I may mangle a metaphor, to be ig-
nored is bliss.

In addition to Bush’s speech, the graduation ceremony
included numerous senior awards, a valedictory address, a
commissioning of a senior into the Marines, the awarding of
honorary degrees and the acceptance speeches therefor.

Oh, and 150 seniors graduated.

In all, the ceremony lasted more than two hours in 85-
degree heat. But the awarding of diplomas, the purpose for
which we had assembled, was anticlimactic, almost an after-
thought.

By the time the degrees were awarded, most of the mem-
bers of the media, who’d come only to see Bush, had packed
up and left. Some members of the audience who didn’t know
any graduates also had long departed. They weren’t in-
terested in Hampden-Sydney, or in the graduates — they
were interested only in George Bush.

This might be acceptable if one thought that the visit
means something to those who give these commencement
addresses year after year. But to Bush, Hampden-Sydney
was just another stop on the way (I assume) to the White
House. Just the day before, he’d spoken at Wheaton College
in Illinois, and the following day, he would speak in New
York. One of his aides described the spring graduation cir-
cuit as being worse than the fall campaign.

A name graduation speaker may attract some attention to
himself and to the school but he detracts from the graduation
itself. W&L clearly has made a wise decision in ensuring that
attention is focused on the students by having only members
of the University community speak at the commencement
exercises,

 

—By Bruce Potter

May 9, 1985

 

 

 

 

Counsel rejects ‘ridiculous opinions’ .

To the Editors:

I realize that there is an unspoken
policy not to discuss honor proceed-
ings in this paper, but I feel compell-
ed to comment upon Ben Hale’s col-
umn of last week. I must at this time,
both admittedly and regrettably,
stoop to Mr. Hale’s level in discuss-
ing this matter. I do this only to in-
form your readers of Mr. Hale’s mis-
takes in logic, his misconceptions
regarding the system and his abso-
lute ignorance of legal terms and
practices both within our [honor
system] and in judicial proceedings.

I represented the accused in the re-
cent honor trial. I am an absolute be-
liever in our system as it presently
exists. There are some flaws in the
White Book, but those flaws are
minor and usually unimportant. Our
system imposes as the the only pun-
ishment the single sanction — a sanc-
tion established long ago and used by
General Lee on numerous occasions.
In his day, Lee had complete control
over the Honor System — there was
no White Book, nor was there initially
an honor committee. Eventually, the
students wisely adopted their own
guidelines to handle honor offenses,
and the power of the system was
transferred from the president to the
students. General Lee’s honor code,
however, that ‘all men behave like
gentlemen” was retained and was
codified into the White Book we have
today.

I support the honor code, the White
Book, the single sanction and the con-
cept that underlies them — there are
no degrees of honor. Many people on
campus do not believe in the present
system and that belief became quite
apparent during jury selection for
the recent trial. The White Book pro-
vides that potential jurors who do not
believe in the system as it stands
may be ‘‘struck for cause’ — i.e., not
allowed to serve as jurors. Although
this may give the Executive Commit-
tee the opportunity to select a jury to
its advantage, I think it is a good
rule. It ensures that the jury believes
in a system that it is called upon to
support.

Mr. Hale fails to recognize the sim-
ilarity between our honor system
and American criminal proceedings.
Many of the rules of evidence apply
to our system, and the Student Bar
Association president presides as
judge to rule on objections and to in-
struct the jury. Additionally, the
defendant does not have to testify
and the EC has the burden of proving
its case. The White Book states that
“all reasonable doubts should be
resolved in favor of the accused”’
— this is no different from the stan-
dard in criminal proceedings, where
the accused must be proven guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt. Mr. Hale
states that there is an obvious dif-
ference between these two stan-
dards, yet he failed to explain in any
way the difference he perceives. In
fact, no difference exists between the
two — if any reasonable doubt exists
in either an honor or criminal pro-
ceeding, the accused must be acquit-
ted. The ‘beyond a_ reasonable
doubt’’ standard is one of the strict-
est standards of the law — it resolves
every possible doubt in favor of the
accused. No one should be convicted
of an honor offense and expelled from
our community, unless he actually
violated the Honor Code. John Sici-
lian, the SBA president, properly in-
structed the jury and Gordy Ham-
mock, the EC advocate, was abso-
lutely correct in not contesting the
instruction. Had Mr. Hale been pro-
secuting the case, his absurd opi-
nions of the system and of the burden
of proof quickly and properly would
have been stricken from the record.
Furthermore, had he continued to
voice his incorrect conclusions, Mr.
Sicilian would have been forced to
order a mistrial and the EC case
would have gone out the window.

I must agree with Mr. Hale that
polygraph tests ought to have no part
in our system. Such tests are some-
times used in court, but more often in
pre-trial and post-trial proceedings.
The obvious reason for their non-ac-
ceptance is their reliability. The ex-
perts are in disagreement as to the

accuracy of such tests and this dis-
agreement seenis to be a controlling
factor in the minds of many judges in
rejecting the tests. But if this scien-
tific evidence is kept out of honor
trials, so should the “‘invisible finger-
print powder”’ available only through
the police that sealed the fate of the
accused in the open trial. Mr. Hale
labels the use of scientific polygraph
tests in the trial as ‘‘horrifying,”’ yet
he overlooks the instruction of the
scientific powder. Had the EC pre-
sented a paid expert witness to testi-
fy about the powder, I am confident
that Mr. Hale would have been pleas-
ed to see the EC go the extra mile to
secure a conviction.

There are arguments that exist for
the use of polygraph tests in honor
trials. If one believes that the under-
lying foundation of the system is to
seek the truth, then it seems logical
that any possible means of ascertain-
ing the truth should be employed.
The government and thousands of
companies in this country use poly-
graph tests daily as a reliable means
of screening applicants and employ-
ees. We introduced the polygraph
test because we felt it was reliable

and tended te indicate that the accus-'

ed was not guilty. It was for the jury
to weigh the evidence and determine
the truth.

This leads me to another point I
wish to discuss - that being the role of
the defense advocates in the system.
Mr. Hale states that there is too

Opinion on

To the Editors:

Last week’s editorial ‘‘ ‘A’ for Ef-
fort’’ was a blatant misrepresenta-
tion of the facts. This editorial show-
ed very little journalistic responsibil-
ity. I don’t feel that anyone in good
conscience could equate hunger in
Ethiopia, where millions of people
are threatened with death, and the
system of apartheid in South Africa,
with its total disregard of self-deter-
mination and human rights, with
“saving the whales.”’

Furthermore, The Phi generalized
when it stated that the Executive
Committee by supporting the resolu-
tion on South Africa as “hopping
right on the boycott bandwagon,”’ the
resolution merely asks for the Board
of Trustees to study whether or not
the University has holdings in South
Africa and ‘‘to consider what mea-

‘Legalities

To the Editors:

I am writing in response to Ben
Hale’s ‘My View” column in The
Phi. Like Mr. Hale, I also found a
message in last week’s honor trial
—but quite a different one.

“Legalities” are not devices to
accomplish underhanded deceit.
Rather, legal technicalities are safe-
guards which ensure that no student
will be accused and convicted of an
honor violation unless and until his
accusers can prove guilt. The burden
of proof must be rigorous (as all ad-
vocates in the trial seem to have be-
lieved), otherwise it would be possi-
ble for the EC and jury to eliminate
students who are unpopular but ne-
vertheless honorable.

Our University stresses honor and
gentlemanly behavior. Surely no gen-
tleman would want to see his fellow
student wrongfully expelled. A gen-
tleman’s code of civility demands
caution before making damaging ac-
cusations.

With regard to the behavior of Jim
Kay and Stewart Thomas, I am also
in disagreement with Mr. Hale. Mr.
Kay and Mr. Thomas defended [the
accused student] aggressively. In
my opinion, they did their job well
— they forced the EC to prove every
aspect of the charge. There is nothing
underhanded or deceitful about that,
Mr. Hale.

If W&L’s Honor System is to sur-
vive, it must accomplish substantial

much emphasis on legal training in
the open trials. Here, once again, he
is mistaken. The honor system, at
least in open trials, contains numer-
ous complex technical requirements
which those with law school exper-
ience are particularly well-trained to
understand and to assist others in
understanding as well, The White
Book allows the EC to choose an ad-
vocate from the student body for a
trial if the committee wishes to. This
provision was drafted to ensure that
a capable advocate could be employ-
ed and it was undoubtedly contem-
plated that advocates from the Law
School often would be chosen. I
suspect that if Mr. Hale were accus-
ed of an honor offense, he would ask a
law student to defend him.

Ido not represent students to ‘‘beat
the system” or ‘‘to crush the EC.’’ On
the contrary, I am a member of this
system, and more importantly, an of-
ficer of this system. As an advocate, I
must support the White Book and
cannot, under any circumstances,
perpetrate a lie within the system. In
this respect, had the accused admit-
ted his guilt, I could not have allowed
him to testify as to his innocence.
When an accused swears to his inno-
cence, however, I have the absolute
and sacred duty to represent him to
the best of my ability within the
bounds of the White Book. A defense
advocate must do everything within
his power to ensure that the accused
gets a fair trial and to see that the EC

advocates follow the same rules that :
defense advocates must follow.

Mr. Hale, who failed to use my
name, stated that I engaged in “‘un-
derhanded psychological ploys” dur- ©
ing the trial. My response to that is ’
that Mr. Hale either slept through the’
closing arguments or has absolutely
no understanding of advocacy. I em- .
phasized in my closing that I believed
in and upheld our system. I stated _
that the EC has the burden of proving
its case beyond a reasonable doubt, “
and then gave our theory of the case. t
I did my best to be fair in my closing Wf
and I believe the jury, opposing ”
counsel and the chairman recognized "
that fact. mn

I am offended by Mr. Hale’s state-
ment that my knowledge of the White’
Book is ‘an abomination.” This is a’
personal attack upon my preparation ”
of the case and upon my knowledge of ~
the system. I submit that his opinions’ ’’
are the ones that are off-base, and”:
that it is he who needs to learn the
rules of the system before he publicly *'
speaks upon a subject he is ill-equip- ”
ped to address. In closing, I regret —
that his statements and mine in re-
turn were ever discussed outside of”
Lee Chapel. I am thankful, however, _
that his ridiculous opinions, to which’
he is totally entitled, did not play a “
factor in the hearing, in the decision
of the jury or in our Honor System as’
it presently stands. :

James D. Kay, Jr.*”’
Law Class of 1985"

petition is challenged .

sures, if any, should be appropriate
for Washington and Lee to take.”’
The Phi, then, contrives to take
statements out of context when it
states that a representative of the
Campaign against Apartheid is quot-
ed as saying the president ‘supports’
the effort, but that later on the repre-
sentative said the president hadn't
expressed an opinion. Here again this
editorial strays from the facts; what
was said’was that the president sup-
ported the efforts to direct a cam-
paign against apartheid for dialogue
on the campus. It was never stated
that the President endorsed or re-
jected the resolution. The Phi also
labeled charges that a representative
called the Board of Trustees
“ignorant.”’ This statement is false.
Moreover the editorial went on to
state it’s ‘‘rather ironic that the EC
finds it offensive that the South Afri-

“not devices of deceit

justice. This means it must be fair
and it must appear to be fair. A retro-
spective examination of an honor
trial should be characterized by cer-
tainty. It would be fatal, tragic,
embarassing and dishonorable if we
were ever able to look back and say
that we’re not really sure if a convict-
ed student was guilty.

Mike Allen
Bruce Potter

Editorial Page Editor

is otherwise independent.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Chief Editors Business Manager |
William Schoeffler

rere Paul Foutch
Rhee ere ree ey Reade Williams
SeRORS 6 55:--::5e) pt hee Cotten Puryear
seeebeceerceseserettceeent Mike Stachura Aa

ee re
gd) | dg) ae | Re ry oe
We  rirhtiep itor

  
 

PRMRRRIAORY BERGE occ ccretsccccciceces
COMIN PERUBIE conc kcte ce ccccsens
Advertising Manager..............e000005
pe ere rar evey yee) te

bie SedNd dees Cirle cans Cotton Puryear
BeUUAN Obs 6 ses e ss ce Peter Crane
(pebesbse0s esha Alex Bryant
pewiehess =. 33... eh Chris Bowring z

Senneeees Chuck Bracken, Hank Greenberg,

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

can government treats blacks differ-
ently than it does other citizens, but
feels that to do so at W&L would be.
somehow acceptable.’’ The problem ‘
is blacks are still looked at different-.,
ly whether it’s been the Honor Sys-
tem, the fraternities or just allowing .
participation within the Washington
and Lee community.

The Phi is a major part of the Uni-r
versity and its long ethical traditions,
And I feel The Phi would serve the: !
Washington and Lee community bet-°':
ter if it took the facts in greater con- |
sideration before they print their edi- 4
torials. I, as many other students,
fee] The Phi’s journalistic credibility :(!
is at stake and some changes need to *
be made to bring about more ethical ,
reporting. 3

William Rhinehart '
Class of 1986 *’

~~ Se aH

4

If Mr. Hale and his supporters
think this offends the “‘spirit” of the °
system, then I must insist that they’j
explain how else W&L students can_)
expect to maintain a legitimate qua- ~
si-judicial system.

Alice J. Sacks
Law Class of 1986 ,

¥

‘

.. + Nelson Patterson

Chris Gareis

Jeff Kimbell, Rob Tolleson

 

 
 

.

+ Tothe Editors:

_Mr. Ben Hale’s column last week
about the most recent student body

. hearing was nothing short of aston-

ishing. Mr. Hale made an artificial

* distinction between guilt being deter-
* mined “‘beyond a reasonable doubt,”

and ‘resolving any  reason-

” able doubt in favor of the accused.”
« Mr. Hale apparently did not realize

that one concept can be expressed in
” different words.
+ |The White Book incorporates the
, ‘reasonable doubt’’ standard. When
the White Book says a juror is to ‘‘re-
* solve any reasonable doubt in favor
, of the accused,”’ it is describing how
a juror is to vote for an acquittal. The
» advocates were simply expressing
, how the jurors are to vote for a
conviction when they said the accus-

~ ed must be found guilty ‘beyond a

)

, reasonable doubt.’’ Both instructions

state the ‘‘reasonable doubt’’ stan-
* dard; they are different sides of the
,£ame coin.

Letters

“Reasonable doubt” is not a mys-
terious legal term; it is supposed to
be understood as it is commonly us-
ed. In either case, the White Book in-
struction or the advocates’ instruc-
tion places the responsibility for de-
fining reasonable doubt and honor-
able conduct with the member of the
“student generation’’ who is serving
on the jury.

What is even more amazing about
Mr. Hale’s analysis is that he fails to
recognize an important distinction in
the function of the jury. Presumably
because Mr. Hale agreed with the ju-
ry’s verdict, he thinks ‘‘the jury
{had] the good sense and conviction
to ignore the defense advocate’s”’ ar
guments (emphasis mine). We can-
not expect accurate verdicts if the
jury ignores either side; I hope the
jury listened intensely to both sides,
and after careful consideration of
both arguments, came to a reasoned
decision. I agreed with the student ju-

‘ry’s verdict because I did not think

Titles perplexing

*To the Editors:
, After my last letter criticizing The
Ring-tum Phi’s editors, I wasn’t
‘planning on writing again. But an
,item in The Phi last month [April 4]
announcing the appointments of next
year’s editors changed my mind.
« The lead of the unbylined news
story on page 4 stated that Mike
“Allen, Paul Foutch and Cotton Pur-
yyear had been appointed by the Uni-
versity Publications Board as the
“three top editors” of next year’s
»Phi. Later, the story stated that Allen
, ‘will hold the position of Executive
"Editor and will have overall respon-
‘sibility for the newspaper’’ and that
~«Foutch and Puryear ‘‘will each have
the title of Editor, and will each be
*responsible for one of the two sec-
tions’ planned for the paper next
year.
This is literally true but mislead-
»ing, if not deceitful. It implies that
the Publications Board appointed Al-
“len executive editor and Puryear and
-Foutch as subordinate editors work-
,ing under him. This is not what hap-
‘pened. Actually, the Publications
"Board specifically rejected a pro-
posal by Allen to name him executive
editor and instead selected Allen,
‘Puryear and Foutch to serve as “‘tri-
,chief editors,” each with equal power
over the paper.
* The three agreed on their own to
,establish the setup of one executive
“editor and two section editors. Ac-
*cording to Foutch, he and Puryear
,agreed to the arrangement because
“allen, who is the paper’s most pro-
ductive reporter, indicated he might
,not work for The Phi next year if they
“did not give him a “‘promotion’’ from
this job as co-chief editor this year.
These are facts that should be
"known to W&L students, whose taxes
‘help run the paper. The Phi’s story
does not state that things did not hap-

-

pen that way, but its careful seman-
tic construction implies something
altogether different. The story re-
minds me of the editor’s note pre-
ceeding Steve Pockrass’ letter last
semester. The note implied that
Pockrass had been fired from the pa-
per’s staff before he submitted the
letter criticizing its news judgments.
A “correction”? was published the
next week, noting that Pockrass had
been let go after he turned in the let-
ter and apologizing for any misun-
derstanding the editor’s note might
have caused. Perhaps the note could
be written off as an inadvertent mis-
take, but The Phi’s editors, who are
responsibile for the paper’s content,
knew the facts of the Pub Board deci-
sion and thus knew the incorrect im-
pression their story would give.

Such self-serving misinformation
is a disservice to the W&L communi-
ty and erodes the paper’s credibility.
It is simply wrong to portray as a
promotion what could be construed
by many as a demotion: According to
a vote of the board that oversees The
Phi, Allen, who had one-half share of
ultimate editorial power this year,
will have a one-third share next year,
with the other two-thirds going to
staff members who worked under
him this year.

Perhaps, there is nothing, wrong

. with Allen,. Foutch and Puryear

working out an.agreeable and effi-
cient system for sharing the work-
load next year. And perhaps there is
nothing terribly improper with Allen
threatening to pick up his marbles
and go home if he does not get his
way. But it is definitely wrong to por-
tray the agreement as something it
was not — a decision by the board
that serves as publisher of The Ring-
tum Phi.

Mike Hudson

Class of 1985

Lewis opposes White Book change
‘of president’s role in honor hearing

To the Editors:

+ Currently under consideration by
the Executive Committee is a pro-
‘posal by the White Book Revisions
Committee to make the president of
the student body neutral — that is,
‘take away his vote in closed honor
hearings. This is a drastic change be-
ing downplayed by the advocates of
the proposal. It makes the president
merely a moderator for what is
jntended to give a perception of
greater fairness. Is it not the job of
the Executive Committee to ascer-
tain the facts surrounding a case in
an honorable manner? There are on-
ly three members of the Executive
Committee elected by the entire stu-
dent body. Are we going to take the
vote of the man elected to carry out
the governing of the student body?

The reason for this emasculation of
the president, I am told, is so that
new evidence can be introduced on
the advice of the president, without
the consent of the accused and his ad-
vocates. I think Indians call this am-
bush. I urge members of the student
body to voice their views to the cur-
rent members of the Executive Com-
mittee before their vote on this issue
on Monday. I have spoken with sever-
al advocates of the proposal and I re-
main adamantly opposed to any and
all proposals to change the role of the
president in this way. Our system is
extremely effective and has been for
a long time. I have great faith in the
elected members of the committee to

approach all honor’ matters
honorably.

John B. Lewis

EC President-elect

Editorial questioned

To the Editors:

‘One of the things I have struggled
with during my two years as a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee is my un-
derstanding of honor, as compared to
that of much younger students. Many
things like the pencil and pen marks
found in library books, or carving in-
to the paint of the elevators are clear-
ly dishonorable acts. The school owns
the library collection and the eleva-
tors and I am unable to understand
how a student feels he can deface
University property. I am also trou-
bled by the manner in which some
students deal with the truth and a
case in point is the editorial in [the
May 2] Ring-tum Phi.

-Even if the editorialist did not ap-
prove of the anti-apartheid petition
or of the Executive Committee's ac-
tion, he had no right to subvert the
truth. I never implied that the trus-
tees were ignorant, nor did I ever im-
ply that President Wilson supported
divestment petitions. I think there
ig a special irony that my transaction
with the EC would be reported in a
less than honest manner, I am extra-

—$rdinarily hurt and disappointed. Not

only is this an example of reckless

journalism, but the editorial does not
become a Washington and Lee
gentleman.

I would also add that the apartheid
issue and missing children may be
faddish for some, but for others it is
not. My commitment to such causes
has been unceasing for more years
than the editorialist has been alive.
Any issues involving the quality of
life, for all men, are of primary im-
portance for me, and pray God they
always will be. Concern for others
should be part of our honor. I had
hoped this apartheid issue would
cause W&L students to look beyond
the safe comfortable world of the
campus and to this extent I think it
has. It seems to me that human life is
a far more important concern than
neckties.

I thank the EC, the faculty, the
staff and all of the students who have
supported this effort.

Ted DeLaney
Class of 1986

EDITORS’ NOTE: The Ring-tum Phi
stands by its account of the meeting,
which has been corroborated by several
others who were present.

 

‘Distinction distorts case

the defense succeedeu in presenting
a reasonable doubt of guilt in the face
of the Executive Committee’s evi-
dence; I have confidence in the jury’s
verdict because I think they arrived
at their verdict in the same way.
However, the defense’s arguments
haunt me, as I hope they haunt the
student jurors — no decision so pro-
found on another’s life shoud be
made with less thoughtfulness.

Mr. Hale then goes on to indicate
that he thinks the Honor System
should incorporate a rule of evidence
that would not allow paid experts to
testify, or evidence produced by ma-
chines to be admitted. If Mr. Hale’s
rule were followed, the Executive
Committee could not have engaged a
handwriting expert to testify three
years ago. Also, “Murph,” the
school’s proctor, could not have testi-
fied in the most recent student body
hearing: Murph is a paid investiga-
tor and the evidence he presented
was obtained with the use of a
machine — a black light. The hand-
writing expert, Murph and the lie-
detector expert were presented as
evidence to help the student jury de-
termine the facts; neither should
have any effect on the juror’s concept
of honor.

Legalities are misplaced in our
Honor System — there is no logical
reason why our Honor System should
completely embrace the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure or the
Virginia Rules of Evidence. How-
ever, the need for trained advocates
at student body hearings is imper-
ative: they can sharpen the issues,
and improve the quality of the argu-
ments. Our Honor System cannot
simply rest on some nebulous philo-
sophy of honor. Sound preparation
and clear presentation require advo-
cates to map out trial strategy. Or-
dered hearings presuppose the par-
ticipants will follow a reasoned set of
procedures — pejoratively called
technicalities. Well-presented argu-
ments by both the Executive Com-
mittee and the defense advocates can
to nothing but strengthen the Honor
System.

James Humphreys
Class of 1984
Law Class of 1987

Hale article,
law student
do not agree’

To the Editors:

As a third-year law student and a
classmate of Jim Kay, Gordy Ham-
mock and John Sicilian, I feel com-
pelled to respond to Ben Hale’s criti-
cism of their handling of the recent
open honor proceeding. Hale lacked
not only the courage to accuse any of
the three by name, but also the intel-
ligence to support any of his allega-
tions of serious misconduct with any
substance. While I cannot explain
Hale’s first failing, his second is easi-
ly explained. He is simply wrong.

Jim, John and Gordy are as well-
liked and highly respected as any stu-
dents in our Law School. Anyone who
knows them is familiar with the time,
effort and emotion that they have put
into the numerous honor proceedings
that they have been involved with
during their years here at W&L.
Their ability, intentions and, above
all, their integrity, are beyond ques-
tion. They have probably spent more
time on honor proceedings than any-
one on this campus, which should
show even Ben Hale that they not on-
ly understand the process, but have a
great deal of respect for it as well.

Unfortunately, Hale chose to rail
on a distinction that does not exist,
despite his unsubstantiated claim
that it was ‘‘obvious.’’ Regardless of
which “‘reasonable doubt” phrase is
used, the result is the same — if a
juror has a reasonable doubt as to the
defendant's guilt, he must find the
defendant innocent. Period. But this
misbegotten tirade on a non-existent
distinction between standards was
far from the worst aspect of Hale’s
commentary. Hale’s inability to de-
tect one standard defined in two
phrases pales in comparison to his
personal attacks on the three stu-
dents.

Hale accused the three of both er-
roneously and, in the case of Jim
Kay, intentionally circumventing a
system which all three support and
respect. Hale’s claim that John, Gor-
dy and Jim do not ‘‘know the White
Book — or understand it,”’ and the in-
excusable charge that Jim Kay was
“‘underhanded” in his presentation of
the defense, are more than just
wrong. They are an absolute dis-
grace,

Gordy Hammock, Jim Kay and
John Sicilian have taken the time to
learn the Honor System procedures
and to apply their legal training and
skills to make the system work fair-
ly. They are owed much more than
the shabby treatment afforded them
by Ben Hale. As I noted earlier, Hale
even lacked the courage to make his
accusations by name. Perhaps he
will have the grace to do so in a
much-deserved apology.

Charlie Martel
Law Class of 1985

The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1985, Page 3

 

 

383 accept admission offers

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
Staff Reporter

 

Fifty-five presidents of major
organizations, 69 team captains and
148 honor society students, respon-
ding to the University’s May 1
deadline, are included among 281
men and 102 women who have ac-
cepted their offers of admission as
freshmen next fall.

Associate Director of Admissions
Van H. Pate said 60 additional
students on the waiting list have been
offered admission to reach the Uni-
versity's goal of 300 men and 100
women for the class.

“We have no trouble with our
waiting list,’’ Pate said. “‘These are
very fine people, and we were hope-
ful we could offer some of them ad-
mission.”

Pate said the 400 students who had
been placed on the waiting list this
year were as academically strong as
some of those the University con-
sidered top choices in recent years.

The waiting list, according to Pate,
was ranked on the same basis as the
class at large. Including the 60 addi-
tional offers recently made, 101
students on the waiting list have been
offered admission.

In total, the University sent 880 ad-
mission letters — 33 percent of the
total applicant pool — to 38 states,

Canada and Chile

About 47 percent of the high school
seniors have accepted their offers of
admission.

Pate described the group as ‘“‘ex-
cellent students”’ and ‘‘very fine peo-
ple” — a ‘‘very gratifying combina-
tion.”’

The Class of 1989 averaged 580 on
the verbal section of the SAT and 617
on the math. High school class stan-
ding averages at the 82 percentile.

Thirty National Merit Scholarship
finalists, compared with last year’s
nine, and 34 valedictorians or
salutatorians, compared with last
year’s 14, will be in the class.

Also in the class will be 11 black
students, about half of whom are
women, at least three Orientals, sev-
eral Canadians and a student from

Just more than 1 percent of the
nation’s high school seniors would
have increased interest in a
single-sex college because of that
characteristic, according to a
survey released this week.

The survey of 1,934 seniors by
the Denver-based Ingersoll Group
Inc. also found that students from
the Southeast are nine times more
likely than students from the

 

Chile. Five students are from Rock-
bridge County.

Sons and daughters of alumni
number 30 and 23, respectively.

Public school students make up 55
percent of the class, while the re-
maining 45 percent are from private
schools.

Also among the Class of 1989 are:
21 student body presidents.
18 student body vice presidents.
29 junior or senior class
presidents or vice presidents.
¢17 honor society presidents.
23 school newspaper editors.
19 literary magazine or yearbook
editors.
29 Girls’ or Boys’ State
participants.
*19 Governor’s School attendees.

Poll: 1% interested in single-sex

Northeast to have increased in-
terest ina single-sex school.

This could be attributable to the
large number of single-sex
schools in the Southeast, said the
firm’s president, Ron Ingersoll.

Ingersoll said he didn’t have the
statistics by gender, but ‘‘it’s been
my experience that there’s even
less interest on the part of males
in single-sex institutions.’’

 

 

Being first a ‘challenge’ for women

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Staff Reporter

 

The words ‘‘challenge’’ and ‘‘un-
certainty” seem to be the ones that
Washington and Lee’s first class of
women use most frequently to de-
scribe what they think their exper-
ience will be next year.

Laura Carty of Denver said she
first became interested in the school
through her father, a 1962 W&L grad-
uate. After last summer’s Board of
Trustee’s decision to begin admitting
women to W&L, Carty immediately
made an appointment for an inter-
view.

“At first I did it to kind of humor
him [her father], but once I got here

 

 

 

“All the W&L sci
really seemed to care
about each person that
wanted to come here.”’

—Laura Carty

 

and saw the campus I was really in-
terested,”’ Carty said.

Carty said the personal attention
she received during her visit had a
large influence on her decision to at-
tend W&L. ‘‘All the W&L people real-
ly seemed to care about each person
that wanted to come here,”’ she said.

Although Carty said she is trying
not to worry about what kind of chal-
lenges might face next year’s first
class of women, she said she is main-
taining an ‘‘idealistic attitude.”’

“I think it’s going to be a great
year. The admissions people are pro-
bably going to pick people that are
really excited about being in the first
class. I know I’m excited and can
hardly wait to start,” she said.

Carty said she expects a few hostil-
ities at the beginning but added that

things will probably ease off once
everyone becomes comfortable in the
new setting.

Renee Steinbrenner of Atlanta first
heard about W&L in her junior year
and she said she was ‘“‘sort of mad”’
when she found out that it was an all-
male school. When it was announced
that women would be admitted, she
decided to look into the school.

When Steinbrenner visited the
W&L campus, she told students she
was applying to Hollins College to
avoid the typical reactions. During
her visit she talked with a lot of peo-
ple who expressed positive feelings
about next year, and the visit con-
vinced her that W&L was where she
wanted to go.

Although part of her interest in
W&L stems from the idea of trying
something different, Steinbrenner
said she has a genuine interest in
W&L. ‘I'm not doing this to make a
stand,”’ she said. “I’m doing this
because I want to go to school at
W&L.”’

The area women’s colleges might
be an additional source of friction,
Steinbrenner said. ‘‘We'll be one
more set of girls for them to compete
with,” she added, ‘‘but I imagine
we'll get along.”

Although admitting that she is a lit-
tle nervous about next year, Stein-
brenner said she has no regrets and
thinks that it will turn out to be a
great year. She said she felt that the
women should not come on too strong
next year and should try to subtly get
involved with things on campus.

Leeann Flood of Ft. Worth, Texas,
got her first glimpse of W&L when
she was 10 years old. She did not visit
the campus again before her accep-
tance and was going on W&L’s repu-
tation alone. ‘‘I was really applying
sight unseen, but I did get lots of pic-
tures of the campus,” she said.

Flood said she has mixed feelings
about being in the first group of
women at W&L. “‘At first I was really
excited, but then I heard about how
much the guys didn’t want the girls
there. I’m not really worried though,
I don’t think people there are not go-
ing to be able to change and get used
toit,’’ she said.

Flood added that she thought the
whole experience would be a chal-
lenging one and hoped that the other
women coming in are as excited
about it as she is. “I really don’t sce
how anyone could not be excited
about all this,”’ she said.

Clare Kaye of Mansfield, Ohio, said
she felt honored to be selected for the
first class of women at W&L. “It’s go-
ing to be a new challenge, but I think
it will be a neat experience.”

Kaye said she hopes to continue
participating in some of the activities
at W&L that she did while she was in
high school. She said she was inter-
ested in student government, but said
she'll have to wait to see how W&L
students react to women running for
student government positions.

One area in which Kaye hopes to be
a ground-breaker is cheerleading.
“When we were sent the question-
naires about what sports we might be
interested in participating in, they
left a space for you to insert in your
own suggestions,”’ she said, ‘“‘and I

wrote down that I was very interest-
ed in cheerleading.”

Kaye said she didn’t really foresee
a great deal of friction with the sur-
rounding women’s colleges. She has

 

“I don’t think people
there are not going to be
able to change and get
used to it.’’

—Leeann Flood

 

a sister attending Sweet Briar Col-

lege who loves the idea that Kaye will

be attending W&L and plans to visit.
Although the women expressed dif-

ferent views about what chal-
lenges face them next year, they
tended to agree about the probability
of starting sororities. They said that
maybe after two or three years soror-
ities would’be a good addition to cam-
pus life, but that starting them in the
first year might not be a good idea.

Flood said she thinks W&L should
hold off on sororities until after a cou-
ple of years when there are a few
more females.

‘“‘Only having one or two sororities
in the first year could create some
unnecessary divisions among the wo-
men,”’ said Kaye, who added that she
thinks they'll have plenty of other
things to keep them busy next year.

All Clothing Tried And True
From The Past
And For The Future

Only At

“the College “foun Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

 

Make a nostalgic visit back to a store

that has been at the

same location since 1926

Exceptional Clothing For Men and Women

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1985

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Chief Editor

 

HAMPDEN-SYDNEY — It was a
match made in Brooks Brothers:

George Herbert Walker Bush
(Phillips Academy '42, Yale '48) and
Hampden-Sydney College, where
golf course attire is appropriate all
year ‘round.

The vice president gave the
commencement address Sunday at
Hampden-Sydney’s graduation and
received an honorary doctorate of
law from ‘‘the last college found-
ed before the American Revolution.”

University President Josiah Bunt-
ing 3rd noted the appropriateness of
adding Bush to the school’s roster of
alumni by making reference to the
author of ‘‘The Official Preppy Hand-
book.”’

“This new relationship will surely
gratify Lisa Birnbach, that subtle
scholar of watchbands and J. Press
collars,” he said.

At the ceremony’s start, 148 pairs
of Weejuns and wingtips filed into
rows of folding chairs on the lawn
outside Venable dormitory, a Nation-
al Historic Landmark undergoing re-
novation.

A single yellow collar was con-
spicuous in a sea of starched
white shirts, and fellow graduates
laughed nervously as one of the sen-
iors tripped on a chair, sending it
sprawling.

Barbara Bush, wife of the vice
president, sat in the shade on the dor-
mitory porch. Throughout the
speeches, she whispered to Sen. Paul
Trible, R-Va., who was seated next to
her.

Bush and the Second Lady ap-
plauded gamely while the students

cheered at the announcement that
their football field was being renam-
ed for a favorite coach.

The appropriate pleasantries ema-
nated from the podium during the
two-hour proceeding. Bunting de-
lighted the audience by welcoming
all the ‘‘distinguished wives and their
husbands.”

When presenting the honorary de-
gree to the vice president, Bunting
referred to him as ‘‘Mr. Bush.’’ He
instantly recovered by joking,
“*You'll get your title back”’ later.

One of the two political references
of the day was by Bunting, who noted
that in the press’s passive parlance,
Bush is “widely assumed” to be a
candidate for the 1988 Republican
presidential nomination.

When Bush began his speech, he
added his own topper to a one-liner
Bunting had offered about the stu-
dents mixing up the previous year’s
graduation speaker. ‘I can under-
stand your confusion with Jonas Salk
and Dr. Spock, but please don’t get
me confused with Geraldine Fer-
raro,’’ Bush said.

From there, he clung to his text,
which began: “Graduation Day is
like springtime....”’

The Secret Service kept a sharp
eye on the 30 or so reporters roped in-
to the media pen. One camerman
was hastily retrieved when he tried
to stay near the podium past his allot-
ted time. :

Valedictorian Gregory A. Brandt
was introduced as an English

major with a grade point average of
3.997.

“Sorry about the GPA,’’ he said
when he got to the podium. He said he
was tempted to ‘“‘quote Theudius
from the Greek” or “‘parse a few sen-

Fresh flowers choice

 

By TED BYRD
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee students shop-
ping for Mother’s Day flowers this
year are choosing freshly cut ar-
rangements over potted plants or
dried flowers, local florists say.

All area florists have at least one
floral wire service by which flowers
and plants can be sent virtually any-
where in the country and overseas,
with prices beginning at $15.

“A lot of students ask for spring
flowers, such as irises, tulips and
daisies, and send a mixture of these
cut flowers,” said Frank White, own-
er of Huffman-White Florist.

A.W. Lewis Jr., owner of The Jef-
ferson Florist and Garden noted that

this has not always been the tradi-
tion, and said that potted plants and
corsages used to be more popular
Mother’s Day gifts. One explanation
he offered for the change to fresh
flowers is that “‘there might be a feel-
ing that a cup arrangement is a little
more personal or intimate.”

Lewis said that daffodils and Al-
stroemeria — a lily from Holland
that he described as very hardy — as
well as irises and tulips, are particu-
larly good flowers to use in spring ar-
rangements.

In addition to these types of ar-
rangements, several wire services
offer ‘‘keepsake’’ bouquets of as-
sorted flowers arranged in or on a
ceramic piece that can be used after
the flowers die. FTD, Floral Trans-
world Delivery, has an arrangement

 

By Bruce Potter/The Ring-tum Phi
Vice President George Bush receives his degree from Hampden-Sydney President Josiah Bunting 3rd Sunday.

‘Birnbach would be gratified’

tences”’ in order to provoke a ‘‘fren-
zy" and “‘compel you to lob a few
champagne corks my way.”’

“The guys with the guns warned
me, however, that that was not a
good idea,’’ he said, motioning trium-
phantly toward the startled Secret
Service contingent.

The agents in the Bush entourage
seemed less than enthused about the
vice president’s apparently unending
public relations duties. ‘‘We were in
Chicago yesterday, we'll be in New
York tomorrow, and after that we
start a four-day swing,” one of them
lamented. “This is almost worse than
the campaign.”

Hampden-Sydney is one of the na-
tion’s few remaining all-male col-
leges. A September survey by The Ti-
ger, the campus newspaper, showed
that 91 percent of the 423 students
responding were opposed to coeduca-
tion.

Berkely W. Young announced the
senior class gift of oak trees, saying
they were chosen ‘‘in the hope that in
200 years, hopefully a graduating
class of all men will be out under the
trees as we are today.”

He evoked appreciative laughter
with a comment about ‘‘the dogs that
wander into classrooms — and fall
asleep.”’ He said he thought the class
would appreciate its years at Hamp-
den Sydney, even when with advanc-
ing age they got ‘fatter and dumb-
or

The ceremony had what was per-
haps a fitting postscript. After the
benediction, the graduates fanned
out across the lawn, with many of
them holding the Bibles that accom-
panied their diplomas in one hand
— and clutching champagne bottles
in the other.

for Mom

sent in a recipe box. Teleflora has a
special Mother’s Day pattern that in-
cludes a candlestick, water carafe
and vase that can be sent by them-
selves or with flowers. The ‘‘keep-
sake’ arrangements begin at about
$25, according to White.

Some of the potted plants tradition-
ally popular for Mother's Day, ac-
cording to Libby Entsminger, man-
ager of University Florist & Green-
ery, ‘‘include anything blooming, like
geraniums, azalea, or ivy.’’ Lewis
believes that mums and gloxinia may
also be good choices.

Orders for the wire services should
be in by today, Lewis said, but added
that they possibly can go through
later than that and that he can find
out immediately whether he can send
an order to any particular location.

 

Coed

“Even the language I’ve heard some of the professors
use or that I’ve heard they use, I don’t think women will
have any problem in those classes.”’

 

©) Continued from Page 1

waving” that occasionally accompanies women stu-

dents’ accomplishments.

She explained that she thought it was healthy that lit-
tle hoopla accompanied the initial admission of women
to the Law School, the appointment of the first woman as
editor of the Washington and Lee Law Review or the
election this year of the first female president of the Stu-

dent Bar Association.

“I think it was good that recognition did not come that
women were appointed to these positions in due course
and when they were the most capable candidates and

life went on,”’ she said.

‘“‘We showed we didn’t have to have recognition every
step of the way and we’ve matured sufficiently so it

doesn’t happen.”

Simpson disagreed with Wiant’s view that initial
achievements by women should pass without comment.
“I’m a little suspect when it’s the first time a woman has
been appointed to something and nobody wants to talk

about it,’’ she said.

“When it’s normal, then, fine. Let’s not talk about it
because it’s not unusual and it’s not newsworthy.”

Daisy B. Miller, a junior transfer student from Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman's College, said she hasn’t ‘‘seen
any attitude problems”’ with her professors.

“T feel the only advantage I have in classes is they
she said.

’

know my name before anyone else’s,

eWiant said she found it remarkable ‘how thorough

the Steering Committee has been in its investigation.”
‘As far as I could tell, what the Law School and Wash-

ington and Lee did to prepare for us in 1972 was absolute-

ly nothing,” she said. ‘‘We registered and we were here

and suddenly we were in class.”

“Yes, there were some instances in that first year in
which we suffered some harassment, mostly from
second-and third-year law students,” she added.

eStudent Body President-elect John Lewis said it is un-

necessary to appoint women as ad hoc members to com-

fine,” he said.

mittees to satisfy a ‘‘perception of fairness,” because he
thinks they’ll get elected on their own.
“If the 80 or 100 women stick together, they’ll be just

¢English Professor Jean C. Dunbar said that because
she favored appointing a woman ad hoc member to the

Student Control Committee, she does not necessarily

favor such an addition to the Executive Committee.

“Tt seems to me there’s an enormous difference be-
tween disciplinary actions, which are meant to inhibit
actions that are anti-social or violate the social contract,

and matters of honor or, if you will, morality.”’

sity,” he said.

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Mon, - Sat, 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

*Murphy suggested that fraternities could use their
pledge education programs to “inculcate some Washing-
ton and Lee tradition.”’

“T have a feeling the fraternities have come around to
be appreciative of the fact that this university is moving
ahead and that they’ll be moving ahead with the Univer-

UC debates drug rule

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

The student-faculty University
Council debated the report of the
Drug Policy Review Committee
Thursday, with most of the discus-
sion centering on a minority report
by head dormitory counselor and
senior Executive Committee repre-
sentative Bob Tomaso.

Tomaso’s report opposed the com-
mittee’s recommendation that drug
possession not be a violation of Uni-
versity regulations. Tomaso said he
could foresee problems developing in
the dormitories if drug possession
were not policed.

“I’m far from making the dorms
dry,”’ Tomaso said. ‘‘That would not
be very attractive to someone who
might want to go to this university.”

A key point of the discussion was
whether alcohol and drugs should be
considered separate entities.

Student Bar Association President
John Sicilian said drugs should not be
viewed differently from alcohol. ‘‘I
don’t see arbitrary enforcement as
the answer,” he added.

“You encourage students to seek
help if they have a drug problem,’’ he
continued. ‘‘I don’t see this policy as
consistent.”

Another point raised was the possi-
bility of police involvement in the
dorms if drug possession were not
prohibited. Proponents of this view
said the policy would send a message
to the community that the University
is not upholding the law.

Some members of the council add-
ed that this might invite the police to
search the dorms more readily.

EC President Cole Dawson said it
would not be in the University’s best
interest to have the police frequent-
ing the dormitories.

“T was under the impression that
the freshmen in the dorms, with the
Honor System, were policing them-
selves,’’ Dawson said.

“The cops don’t need to come into
the dorms in that case,’’ he contin-
ued.

“If we condone police involvement,
then we are sending out a message

that the community needs to come in-
to the dorms and enforce authority.”’
Assistant English Professor Jean
C. Dunbar expressed a similar view.
“T think it is dangerous when civil
authorities police our academic en-
vironment,’ she said. ‘‘We might run
the risk of their influencing ideas and
creating unrest. We have practical
problems with the police already.
The reactions of the local police are
irrational....They are not easy to get
along with. If you’ve ever been stop-
ped for a traffic violation, then you
know how irrational they can be.”
Sicilian said, ‘I thought our gov-
erning system was set up to allow the
present student generation to decide
what they feel to be an offense. Only
a portion of the students feel that
drug possession is a violation. Should
these students be punished because a
small portion of the student body felt
they should?”’
Dunbar added, ‘‘We guarantee peo-

ple the right to live in an environment
without unlawful behavior.”

In general, the UC felt that the re-
port should be reworded to stress
that the University does not condone
illegal conduct, but rather doesn’t
take it as its responsibility.

The UC also examined the EC’s re-
commendation that “the use of ra-
cial, ethnic, or sexual slurs” be
changed from a major offense to a
minor offense.

Student Control Committee Chair-
man Darby Brower said that by leav-
ing this offense in the major cate-
gory, the SCC would have the ability -
to exercise the maximum penalty if it
were necessary. If the case did not _
seem to be a major one, then the pen-
alty could be lessened, Brower said.

Dunbar recounted an incident six _
years ago in which she was confront-
ed by a verbal assault, and the stu- «
dent was expelled from the Universi-

ty.

 

Drugs

 

(© Continued from Page 1

tions affecting only the individual in-
volved and those that also harm
others.

“Anything the individual does to
himself, it seems, can best be handl-
ed through the dean’s office,”’ he ex-
plained.

“He’s not affecting anyone else.
The disciplinary structure the com-
mittee set up deals with the effects of
an individual doing something to
someone else or doing something that
would harm the purposes of the Uni-
versity.”

eThe committee recommended
that a statement be published in the
University Catalogue specifying that
the faculty ‘‘does not condone’’ the
possession or use of drugs.

Jarrard said the statement is pri-
marily a clarification of the commit-
tee’s earlier offering. ‘“‘That’s what
we thought we’d said — this is just
more direct,’’ he explained.

“TI think we all want the same thing
— a reasonable disciplinary sys-
tem,’ he said. “‘It’s just a question of
how we go about it. Some people
thought there should be a strong:
statement in the policy.”

The statement also said that the
faculty does not condone ‘“‘overindul- :
gence in alcohol” and ‘‘possession or
use of alcohol by students not legally
entitled to purchase” it.

Student Body President Cole Daw- ,
son on Monday spoke to the faculty
about the drug report. :

“I expressed again our opposition,
to condoning that which society
deems unlawful,”’ he told the EC that
night. ‘‘I also stressed I didn’t want
the community to feel they needed to
police the dorms.”

“The people of the community .
should trust the University’s judg- |
ment and when we say we’re doing
something, that we do it — that’s in- -
herent in the Honor System,’’ Daw- |
son said.

At a meeting of dorm counselors<
last week, 21 of the 23 who voted op- ,
posed the committee’s recommenda-
tion that personal drug use in the
dormitories not be punished.

Girard indicted; trial is set |

 

By JIM STRADER
Staff Reporter

 

A jury trial has been scheduled
June 11 for senior Gene Girard, in-
dicted Monday by a Rockbridge
County grand jury.on a cocaine
charge.

The indictment charged Girard, 23,
of Coral Gables, Fla., with one count
of possession of cocaine with the in-
tent to distribute it.

Girard was arrested March 1 at the
East Lexington grocery store when,
according to Assistant Common-
wealth’s Attorney Richard J. Caba-
niss, Girard arrived to pick up a
package that was later found to con-
tain about an ounce of cocaine. At an
April 26 preliminary hearing, Gi-
rard’s attorney, Laurence A. Mann,
said the package could not be con-
nected with Girard.

Cabaniss presented the Common-
wealth’s case at the preliminary
hearing, but Commonwealth’s Attor-
ney Beverly C. ‘‘John’’ Read said this
week he will prosecute the case be-
fore the jury. ‘‘As far as I’m concern-
ed, it’s a very important case,” he
said.

Girard is still under restrictions
imposed when he posted a $30,000
property bond, according to Rock-
bridge County Circuit Court Clerk D.
Bruce Patterson. Under those re-
strictions, Girard may not leave Vir-
ginia without court permission, Pat-
terson said.

Patterson added Girard’s name
does not appear on the list of those in-
dicted Monday who have agreed to
plead guilty on May 15 in Rockbridge
County Circuit Court.

The indictment was signed by
grand jury foreman Col. Albert S.J.
Tucker Jr., Sergeant R. W. Hall of
the Rockbridge County Sheriff’s De-

partment, the arresting officer, and
Sergeant E.W. Straub of the Lexing-
ton Police Department, who also was
involved in the arrest.

Among the 40 indictments handed
down Monday were two other drug
charges, one for selling cocaine and
one for selling marijuana.

Two other indictments issued
charged Frank Erwin Lane with
breaking and entering and breaking
and entering and grand larceny.
Lane is the former cellmate of Scot
Tanner Mesner, who was charged
with arson and murder in connection
with last spring’s fatal fire at the Phi

Gamma Delta fraternity house. The
charges against Mesner were drop-
ped in December.

One of the indictments against
Lane charges that he broke into the
evidence room at the Rockbridge
County Sheriff’s Office ‘‘on or about
February 1, 1985...with intent to com-
mit larceny.”’ Lane escaped from the
Rockbridge County jail Feb. 1.

The second indictment against
Lane charges that on the next day
Lane broke into Ruley’s Garage on.
U.S. 60 in Lexington and stole a 1973
Chevrolet wrecker from the garage.
Lane was captured later that month. —

Perdue charged with drug possession:

University senior David L. Perdue
was arrested early yesterday morn-
ing on a charge of possession of mari-
juana, according to Lexington Police
Chief L.0. Sutton.

Perdue, past president of the Inter-
fraternity Council, was arrested
about 1:20 a.m. Wednesday by Of-
ficer G.P. Joines at the corner of
Nelson and Davidson streets at the
end of the Nelson Street bridge, Sut-
ton said.

Sutton declined to provide further
details of the arrest. ‘I’m not going
to go into the evidentiary aspects of:
it,” he said.

Possession of marijuana is a
misdemeanor charge with a max-
imum fine of $1,000 and a maximum
sentence of one year in jail.

A hearing for Perdue has been
scheduled for June 4 in Lexingtor
General District Court.

 

Alumni

© Continued from Page 1

 

and make reservations for ’86.”’

The Alumni Office reserved 550
hotel rooms this year, more than 500
of which already have been filled.

Journalism Professor John K. Jen-
nings (’56), who chaired the 1985 reu-
nion committee, echoed Atkins’ en-
thusiasm for the weekend.

“One of the great benefits of these
class reunions is that it gives them a

chance to find out what has been go-,
ing on around campus,” Jennings
said. ‘‘We encourage the faculty to be’
particularly available at this time.” ,

Jennings added that the wide di-
vergence in ages among the alumni‘
doesn’t pose a problem. ,

“Since everybody seems to come_
back because of their interest in
W&L, they have a common meeting
ground, something to share,’’ Jen-,
nings explained.

“Since so much stays the same,
they can reminisce about college ex-;
periences even if they were here at
different times.” i

.

IFC studies Wed. night parties -

 

By BILL MARTIEN
Staff Reporter

 

The Interfraternity Council has
formed a subcommittee to study a
series of proposed Wednesday night
party rules.

Greg Wheeler a junior from Pi
Kappa Alpha, was selected to head
the committee at the IFC’s meeting
Tuesday night.

At that meeting, IFC represen-
tatives reported that the proposal of
limiting a fraternity to two midweek
parties a month, with a maximum of

Unique Gifs of Ant

Washington ¥ he Counted Cross Sitch Hits

Old F Main Sexeet Mall

 

two houses at any one party, was
generally well-received by fraternity
members.

Another proposal, that partygoers
bring their own beer instead of the
fraternities’ providing kegs, sparked
some discussion at the IFC’s meet-
ing, though.

One member expressed a concern
that if students have to provide their
own beer, they will be carrying it
around Lexington with them. In addi-
tion, this might produce an increase
in the amount of trash around town.

Another member mentioned the
possibility that girls might be more

  

Phone: 463-3614

EAST LEX

likely to go to the Cockpit, where the
beer would cost the same and be cold,”
rather than provide their own at+
fraternity parties. ;
An advocate of the bring-your-own
proposal said the Student Affairs‘
Committee might force such a,
restriction sooner or later.
“Why not beat them
punch?’’ a member asked.

to the

IFC President Jaimie Hayne said’
that ‘‘bringing their own beer might ,
cut down on the length of parties.
Fraternity members wouldn’t feel «
they had to finish a keg.”

  

Mon.-Sat, 9-12

 

    
 
  

  

Nachos

New!

We Now Have
Hot Dogs

 

  
     

  

Popcorn

 
 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1985, Page 5

 

- Parker and comedy: from a survival thing to NY and DC

‘

SCA

By BRUCE POTTER
Chief Editor

 

For sophomore Tom Parker, comedy has been no
laughing matter — it’s been a matter of practicality

As a youngster, Parker entertained his parent's guests
with five-minute stand-up routines

During adolescence, he used his comedic abilities to
help him become accepted by peers in a new city or
school

Now, Parker’s comedy may become a career.

Parker, a political science major from Fairfax, got his
first break into the world of comedy when, at the age of
14, he became one of the youngest performers to get past
the first round of the San Francisco Stand-Up Comedy
Contest.

Since then, Parker has developed his act to a point at
which he’ll be appearing on a regular basis this summer
at comedy clubs in New York, Philadelphia and Wash-
ington, D.C.

Parker really had never looked at comedy as a career,
though. Instead, it was just a way to meet people while
he moved across the country with his Navy family.

“It all started, I guess, pretty much as a survival
thing,’’ Parker said.

“Tt used to be a way to be popular — an artificial, in
stant way — just add water and you've got friends. It
was a way to blend in.”’

After his experience in the San Francisco contest,
Parker said, ‘I loved it. I was hooked.”’

But after spending two years in New Orleans, during
which he didn’t perform on stage, before moving to Fair-
fax, Parker said, ‘‘When I was ready to come to college,
I never thought I'd do this again.”’

Last summer, though, Parker, now 20, worked at a
Washington comedy club, The Joke Book, for a month.

“| think I was originally hired as a bit of a novelty, but
I proved I can do it,” he said.

During spring vacation three weeks ago, Parker audi-
tioned at several Washington clubs. This week he ac-
cepted an offer to work at a new club, The Laugh Trak,
and travel with three other comedians, ages 33 to 45, ona
circuit that includes Philadelphia and New York.

Parker actually started just by writing jokes. ‘‘I love
to write,” he said. “For a long time, I just wanted to be a
comedy writer.”

He soon realized, though, that he could perform as

well. “I’ve been a ham ever since I was little,” he added
‘‘T wanted to get up before I had anything real important
tosay.”

At first, his act was entirely prepared in advance, but
now, he said, he prepares 50 percent or less of his act

‘‘As I get older, less and less of my act is prepared,”’
Parker said. ‘‘I wing the rest of it. You can do 20 minutes
by picking up the newspaper or seeing someone or some
thing funny in the crowd.”

Parker’s acts are divided into ‘‘bits,”’ two- to five-min
utes series of jokes on the same topic, with transitions
between ‘‘bits.’’

Topics of his bits may range from Rockbridge County
hunters (who, Parker says, shoot more hunters than
they do turkeys) to religion (a favorite piece is one about
an argument over the check at the Last Supper). Parker
said he draws much of his material from his experiences
in the different cities he’s lived in and from small-town
life in Lexington

“I doa lot of small-town stuff, and people in D.C. think
that’s funny,”’ he said

Parker also has been able to work some Washington
and Lee material into his routine. ‘‘In some ways,
[W&L] takes itself too seriously. In some ways, it’s too

big,’’ Parker said. ‘‘The W&L man is funny sometimes
How women react to it, that’s funny.”’

Another source of his material is the television room in
the Student Center. ‘‘We’ll start talking about some-
thing, and everybody in the room will write it for me,”’
Parker said

“In everything I do, I start to say, ‘Well, maybe
there’s five minutes in that, maybe I can get a bit out of
that,’ "’ said Parker, who added that he tries to write
something every night

“Life is just a constant source of comedic material,”’
Parker added

Off the stage, Parker seems to have as many project
ideas as he does jokes. He'd like to form a troupe of
younger comedians, he’s started writing a play about
the television room and he thinks a television situation
comedy about college life would go over well

In the meantime, though, Parker will stick with trying
to move up in the world of comedy

“I’m a young comedian,” he said. ‘‘I could progress
nowhere in six or seven years and still be a young come-
dian.”’

“T work in clubs I’m not old enough to drink in.”’

| Religious adviser heading west

.

 

By STEVE CONNER
Staff Reporter

 

The Rev. Peter J. Bunder, assis-
tant priest at R.E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church and Episcopal
chaplain for Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute, has
resigned to become Episcopal
chaplain at Purdue University and
vicar of the Church of the Good
Shepherd in West Lafayette, Ind.

During his three years in Lexing-
ton, Bunder has acted as an adviser

 

THE REV. PETER J. BUNDER
Will be chaplain at Purdue

and counselor on religious and per-
sonal problems for the students, fac-
ulty and staff of both W&L and VMI.

Before coming to Lexington, Bun-
der was a Roman Catholic priest,
serving as campus minister in
Lynchburg for Lynchburg College,
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
and Sweet Briar College from 1978 to

1981.

From 1978-81 he was vicar of Our
Lady of Peace Church in Appomat-
tox.

Bunder also has been an instructor
at Southern Seminary Junior Col-
lege, where he taught Introduction to
Ethics and Introduction to Philoso-
phy.

“The girls are fun kids — it has
been fun teaching at Southern Semi-
nary,’’ Bunder said.

Bunder said one of his primary ob-
jectives as Episcopal chaplain for the
schools was to try to integrate the
students into church and parish life.

R.E. Lee has a Sunday evening ser-
vice at the church for students during
the academic year, Bunder said.

UTM

Hair Shack

Located in
Lexington-Buena Vista Shopping Park
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9a.m.-5:30 p.m.,
Thurs. 9a.m.-8 p.m.
Appointments or Walk-ins Welcome
Owners and Operators:
Roxanne Hogan and Sue Clark

Phone: 463-7576
Wd Ugg Ugg gc gg

These evening services draw as
many as 60 to 70 students during the
fall and winter months, Bunder add-
ed.

Some of the students serve the
church as Sunday school teachers,
choir members or lay readers, and
three students are authorized to help
with the distribution of communion.

Bunder noted that although his
position is to serve both the schools
as an Episcopal chaplain, his ties are
much closer to W&L than to VMI.

‘‘A lot of VMI students take part in
the church programs to get out of
some of their military activities and
responsibilities,’ Bunder said.

Bunder said that the needs of a
VMI student are quite different from
those of a W&L student.

“Some of the VMI students are
somewhat socially retarded; they
have fellowship or social needs,” he
added.

Bunder said he deals with Wash-
ington and Lee students by challeng-
ing them.

“The need of Washington and Lee
students is to challenge them with
accepting the importance of a liberal
arts education and to accept religion
as a serious matter,’ Bunder ex-
plained.

Bunder added that he believed a lot
of the problems that VMI students
face are related directly to the stress
they are placed under at the school.
He said many of the school’s students
have a difficult time talking about
their problems.

A. problem.,some. W&L._ students
have is setting personal goals too
high. If they do not achieve their
ambitions, they feel dejected and un-
successful, Bunder said.

He said the students are placed un-
der a lot of parental and peer pres-
sure to do well in extracurricular ac-
tivities, academics and social activi-
ties.

Bunder said students should not set
personal goals too high, and should
accept that whatever they accom-
plish, they are a success.

Bunder said coeducation will be
good for Washington and Lee and re-
grets he will not be here next fall to
experience the excitement of the
school’s first coeducation class.

“T think the students will become
more religious, because women tend
to hold religious beliefs very sacred
at an earlier age than men do,”
Bunder said.

“The question that has to be an-
swered is what the school is, since it

FOR RENT

Secured Storage
SPACE
Reasonable Rates
Call 463-3521
or
Come By

 

. \ ? at
Pres Brown's, Inc.
115 West Nelson Street
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

  

is no longer an all-male institution,”’
Bunder said.

“T think coeducation will be
great,”’ he continued. ‘It is a very
exciting time for Washington and Lee
because it will serve as the catalyst
for the school to take a look at itself
and explore its past history, decide
what the school is all about and what
lies in the future for the institution.”

Bunder also pointed out that the co-
education decision at W&L might
cause VMI to explore the idea of pos-
sibly becoming coed in the future.

Bunder said he has enjoyed his
three years in Lexington and has had
“‘an exciting job.”

“‘T love the students, their energy,
their intensity and their ability to ask
questions,’’ he added.

Bunder and his wife, Katy O’Mal-
ley-Bunder, will be leaving later this
month.

 

Honor

 

(1) Continued from Page |
den said.

“I think you are destroying neu-
trality if he deliberates,”’ Tomaso
said,

Crutchfield
timents.

“The whole idea of a closed hear-
ing is that the entire committee is to
be neutral,” he said. ‘If we don’t feel
that we can be impartial, then we are
not to participate in the hearing.”

“What scares me,’’ Crutchfield
continued, ‘‘is that if the president
does feel strongly toward one side,
then he might gear the deliberations
to sway the committee into agreeing
with his viewpoirt. If he can’t vote,
then he might do anything in his
power to make sure his viewpoint is
represented.”

Other revisions include:

voiced similar sen-

Allowing a student being consider-
ed as an EC advocate for an open
hearing to sit in on the closed hear-
ing, to help prepare the EC’s case for
a possible open hearing. A change
last spring created the position of EC
advocate but did not allow the stu-
dent to be present during closed hear-
ings. By a 4-5-1 vote, the White Book
Revisions Committee defeated an ef-
fort to delete that provision. The EC
did not use any members of the stu-
dent body in prosecuting the one open
trial thus far this year.

«Making the same notation on a
student’s transcript whether he with-
draws after being charged, is found
guilty after a closed hearing or is
found guilty in an open hearing. That
notation would be ‘Withdrawn,
{date}, Student Not in Good Stand-
ing.”

eChanging the Section O confiden-
tiality clause to set up specific penal-
ties for violations of confidentiality.

The proposed clause reads: ‘‘Any

and all information about a possible
Honor System violation or an Execu-
tive Committee Hearing is highly
confidential. The Executive Commit-
tee will take the following disciplina-
ry steps against any student who
breaks this confidentiality: the ac-
cused or any witness in an Executive
Committee Hearing will be placed on
social or conduct probation or sus-
pended from the University. An ad-
vocate will be permanently suspend-
ed from the right to advocate Execu-
tive Committee matters. An Execu-
tive Committee member will be sus-
pended from office; however, if the
Executive Committee recognizes ex-
tenuating circumstances, he may be
placed on probation for one or more
Hearings.”

eGiving the accused at least 48
hours, rather than 24, between the
time he is charged and his closed
hearing and between a guilty verdict
in a closed hearing and his informing
the EC president that he wishes to ap-
peal to an open hearing.

 

 

 

 

 

UPPERCLASSMAN’

Dominion can make you a new or late model used car loan with 100% financing.

We can even give you up to 120 days to make your first payment. And our Visa card to
get you on the road. If you're a junior or senior who can verify present income or
future employment, you could qualify. Just ask for our Upperclassman’s Priority Loan.
At Dominion Bank in Lexington
LET US SHOW YOI

HOW ACCOMMODATING A GOOD BANK CAN BE.

ormal nditions apply

 
 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS

 

The contenders

The selection committee delibera-
tions are over and the eight best Divi-
sion III teams in the nation preparing
to make the trek to Lexington for the
1985 NCAA Division III Men’s Tennis
Championships.

Looking to upset the No. 1-ranked
Hornets of Michigan’s Kalamazoo
College are seven other challen-
gers concentrated in a few spots
around the nation. The state of Min-
nesota leads the charge with three
entrants (St. Thomas, Gustavus
Adolphus and Carleton). California is
represented by teams from Redlands
and Claremont-Mudd-Scripps. Pen-
nsylvania’s Swarthmore and, of
course, Virginia’s Washington and
Lee complete the field.

Here is a look at the field:

KALAMAZOO

The Hornets, coached by George
Acker, finished the regular season
ranked No. 1 as a team by the Inter-
collegiate Tennis Coaches Assoc-
iation (ITCA)...had a record of
16-5...won the Michigan Intercolle-
giate Athletic Association crown for
the 47th straight season...defeated
Emory (ranked 14th at season’s
end)...undefeated against Division
II] opponents in '85...defeated Divi-
sion I foes Vanderbilt, Marquette,
Michigan St. and Notre
Dame...Carleton was the only top
eight Division III team faced; Kala-
mazoo won 8-1.

Hornets finished in fourth place at
last year’s championships...Top
players: Tim Corwin (ITCA ranking
of No. 5), Alex Palladino (ITCA No.
15 and 1984 runner-up in the individ-
ual competition), Phil Harrington
(ITCA No. 54) and Adam Bottorf
(ITCA No. 64)...Corwin-Palladino is
No. 1-ranked doubles team, Harring-
ton-Bottorf rated No. 30 in na-
tion...All four have been to nationals
before.

SWARTHMORE

The No. 2-ranked Little Quakers
ended with a 13-10 mark...haven’t
lost a Division III match all sea-
son...big wins over Redlands (5-4)
and Claremont-Mudd-Scripps
(7-2)...also defeated 11th-ranked UC-
Santa Cruz...schedule included Divi-
sion I Penn State, UC-Berkeley and
Maryland...defeated Division I Bos-
ton and Rutgers.

Finished third in last year’s cham-
pionships...Top players: Jeff Krieger
and Shep Davidson (ITCA’s Nos. 1
and 2), Eric Prothero (ITCA’s No.
48) and Dave Sobel (ITCA No.
60)...Krieger-Davidson ranked third
in doubles; Prothero-Rick Van Den
Bergh is 23rd... All four have cham-
pionship experience...Head coach
Michael Mullan said key is ‘‘getting
maximum performance from all
players.”’

ST. THOMAS

Coach Ric Yates’ Tommies come
into the championships with a 20-1
record and a No. 3 ranking...won
Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic
Conference by defeating both Gusta-
vus Adolphus (6-3) and Carleton
(7-2)...also defeated Redlands, 5-4, to
become only team in championships
with wins over three of the top
eight...defeated ITCA No. 9 UC-San
Diego...only loss was to Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps, 6-3.

First time in team champion-
ships...Top players: Mike Ach (ITCA
No. 4), Randy Crowell (ITCA No. 21),
Mike Olson (ITCA No. 46) and Mike
Kasner (ITCA No. 62)...Doubles:
Ach-Crowell (ITCA No. 5) and Kas-
ner-Steve Kasner-Steve Ceislulowski
(ITCA No. 33)...‘‘We’re strong all the
way through,”’ said assistant coach
Mark Hayday. ‘‘Everybody supports
each other real well.”’

REDLANDS

The defending champions come to
Lexington ranked fourth in the nation
by ITCA...won the Southern Califor-
nia Intercollegiate Athletic Confer-
ence title for the 22nd year in a
row...Head coach Ralph Rabago
cited the team’s fine play at the
Claremont tournament, which fea-
tured squads from No. 14 St. John’s,
No. 11 UC-Santa Cruz, No. 9 UC-San
Diego, Colorado and Williams, as
well as top eight entries St.
Thomas and Claremont-Mudd-
Scripps.

Won the team title in 1983 and 1979
also...Top players: John Bunch (IT-
CA No. 3), Scott Moore (ITCA No. 7),
Roy Chow (ITCA No. 44) and Jon
Flagg (ITCA No. 61)...Bunch-Chow
ranked second by ITCA; Moore-Matt
Armstrong is eighth...Moore and
Chow were on last year’s champion-

The Ring-tum Phi

ship team...‘Almost anything can
happen,’ Rabago said. ‘‘One of our
strengths is the amount of commit-
ment our players have shown. Every
time we go out, we get better.... You
have to go out and perform well and
just use the emotion in a positive
way.

CLAREMONT-MUDD-SCRIPPS

The Stags are ranked fifth in the
latest ITCA poll and finished the sea-
son with a record of 18-8...record
against Division III opponents is 14-3,
losing twice to No. 4 Redlands and
once to No. 2 Swarthmore...Stags are
only Division III school to beat No. 3
St. Thomas...also had wins over No, 9
UC-San Diego and No. 11 UC-Santa
Cruz.

Lost in first round of team cham-
pionships last year...Top players:
Mark Nys (ITCA No. 6), Alex Cioth
(ITCA No. 12), John Rende (ITCA
No. 45) and Frank Hinman (ITCA
No. 67)...Hinman-Nys and _ Cioth-
Rende ranked fourth and ninth, re-
spectively...Nys and Cioth competed
for C-M-S in last year’s champion-
ships...""We're strong in doubles.
Doubles is what has pulled us
through all year,”’ said Stags’ head
coach Hank Krieger.

GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS

The Gusties enter the champion-
ships ranked sixth in the nation and
are making their seventh straight
appearance at the nationals...Finish-
ed in second place in MIAC to St.
Thomas...Lost to St. Thomas in regu-
lar season 6-3, lost conference to St.
Thomas by five flights to four.

Finished second at last year’s
championships...Won the team title
in 1980 and 1982...Top players: May-
ank Capoor (ITCA No. 19), Raman
Jayapathy (ITCA No. 20), Brad Sor-
enson (ITCA No. 57) and Jim Allen
(ITCA No. 58)...In doubles, the team
of Mark Kruger-Sorenson is ranked
l1ith; Chris Grabrian-Allen is
34th...Capoor, Jayapathy and Kruger
all with championships  experi-
ence...‘‘Our key is balance. We have
an equal team all the way
through...Obviously, we'll have a
very tough first match (against one
of the top four teams). On the other
hand, I don’t feel intimidated.”

. No clear favorite
» in national field

CARLETON

The third Minnesota team in the
top eight (and from the same confer-
ence as St. Thomas and Gustavus
Adolphus) is ranked seventh in the
nation by ITCA...only top eight team
to play No. 1 Kalamazoo, lost 8-1 ina
match closer than the score indi-
cates, according to head coach Ro-
bert Bonner...best performance
against top eight team was a 5-4 loss
to Redlands...big wins against No, 12
University of Wisconsin at Stout
(7-2), No. 14 Central (9-0) and No. 14
(tie) St. John’s (9-0).

First year in team champion-
ships...Top players: John Flygare
(ITCA No. 43), Ty Priest (ITCA No.
59) and Porter Loomis (ITCA No. 63).
Dave Treichel-Flygare is ranked No.
7 indoubles; Chris Gustillo-Loomis is
No. 31...’’"The key to us is the end of
the lineup,”’ Bonner said. ‘‘We need
to play well there. We don’t give
away anything in the middle....I
think the field is strong, perhaps a
more even field than it’s been be-
fore....If we play well, we could win
it

WASHINGTON AND LEE

The hosts are ranked eighth in the
nation coming into the champion-
ships...only loss in Division III was to
No. 10 Rochester in mid-March...won
10 of next 11 matches after Rochester
loss...big wins over Division I Virgin-
ia Tech, Division II Stetson and Divi-
sion III No. 14 Emory...lost to Penn
State 5-3-1 (Penn State defeated No. 2
Swarthmore, 7-2)...won sixth confer-
ence title in the last nine years.

First time in team champion-
ships...finished in second place (un-

der old format) in 1976 and 1978...Top

players: David McLeod (ITCA No.
33) and Roby Mize (ITCA No. 52).
Doubles team of Jack Messerly-
McLeod is ratedMize participated in
the individual singles and doubles
competition last year as a fresh-
man...Host team has never finished
better than second at the champion-
ships...‘‘Our strengths lie in the fact
that we’re playing fine tennis at this
time, we’re at home and that we’ve
got nothing to lose as the eighth
team,” said the Generals’ head
coach Gary Franke.

May 9, 1985

Page 6

 

 

Schedule of Events

Monday, May 13
§ a.m. — ist Round of Team Championships (Top Half of Draw)
2 p.m. — ist Round of Team Championships (Bottom Half of Draw)

Tuesday, May 14
9 a.m. — 2nd Round of Team Championships (Consolations )
2 p.m. — 2nd Round of Team Championships (Semi-finals)

Wednesday, May 15
9 a.m, — 3rd Round of Team Championships (5th, 6th, 7th and 8th

places)

2 p.m. — 3rd Round of Team Championships (1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th
places); Awards ceremony following team championships

Thursday, May 16
9 a.m. — Ist Round Singles (Top Half of Draw)
10 a.m. — Ist Round Singles (Bottom Half of Draw)

1 p.m. — 2nd Round Singles
3 p.m. — Ist Round Doubles

 

 

The wait is over

Wa&L netters prepare for nationals

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

On Monday, the locker room of the
Washington and Lee tennis team re-
sembled a waiting room of soon-to-be
fathers. The team was awaiting the
announcement of whether they would
be among the eight teams invited to
the 1985 NCAA Division III Men’s
Tennis Championships which will be
held at W&L next week.

Meanwhile, Coach Gary Franke,
as the South Atlantic region’s repre-
sentative on the eight-person NCAA
selection committee, was taking part
in the selection of the teams in a con-
fidential conference call.

Finding the wait unbearable, the
team recruited a passerby to take a
note to Franke asking for news. Little
relief was afforded the players when
the note returned containing a lone
question mark.

Finally, after several hours of
waiting, the news came — W&L had
received the bid. The tension let loose
in the form of shouts and pats on the
back, for a season’s hard work had
paid off.

On Tuesday, the locker room bore
little resemblance to the nervous
silence of the day before. Music
blared from a portable stereo, tennis
balls flew in every direction and
members of the team engaged in

good-natured boasting.

In this lighthearted atmosphere
one sensed a uniquers this sorup of
two seniors, two juniors, one sopho-
more and four freshmen.

For W&L, a bid to the national
championships was by no means a
sure thing. The long road to nationals
was summed up best by senior cap-
tain Andy Haring.

“It looked bleak after our Roches-
ter loss [a 6-3 defeat at the hands of a
team that was ranked just above
W&L at the time and left the team’s
record hovering around .500],’’ Har-
ing said. ‘‘Things started turning
around after we beat Virginia Tech
{an impressive 5-4 win over the Divi-
sion I Hokies that led the Generals to
an 11-4 record by the end of the win-
ter term], and we really finished
strong [with a crucial 7-2 win over
Emory and a dominant performance
at the conference championships ].”’

Though in Division III the bid to
nationals does not entail fame and a
spot on the pro tour, the bid has
brought some additional work for the

team. An extra practice session in |
the morning has been added to the .
regular daily practice |

Generals’
schedule. W&L is looking to be as
prepared as possible for the cham-
pionships, which feature a field most
coaches are calling the most balanc-
ed since the championships began.

 

Woofter wins triathlon

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Staff Reporter

 

Third-year law student Bob
Woofter came from behind to take
the top spot in the 2nd Annual W&L
Triathlon held Sunday.

The triathlon, sponsored by W&L
Army ROTC, consisted of a three-
fourths of a mile swim, a 13-mile bike
anda 3.1 mile run.

Woofter, who placed second in last
year’s triathlon, finished the race
with a time of 1:31:32. W&L junior
David Lewis took second place with a
time of 1:36:26.

Woofter was placed in the second
heat and after he finished the swim,
he had to wait for Lewis to finish his
heat. Lewis threatened Woofter for
the lead, finishing the bike leg in one
hour and four minutes.

But on the run, Lewis fell prey to _

dehydration and had to second place.

Here is the order of finish by age
group:

22 and UNDER — 1. David Lewis,
1:36:26; 2. Ron Moody, 1:40:38; 3.
David Branscom, 1:40:45; 4. Scott
Rippeon, 1:44:49; 5. Mike Hutcher-
son, 1:47:01; 6. David Langiulli,
1:48:28; 7. Wood, 1:54:27; 8. Andrew
Hart, 1:56:38; 9. James Vesper,
1:56:42; 10. Cole Dawson, 1:59:48; 11.
Richard Deforest, 2:05;02; 12. David
McGehee, 2:09:07; 13. Larry Boyd,
2:07:54; 14. Noor Ampsler, 3:44:30.

23 to 30 — 1. Bradley A. Norton,
1:40:27; 2. Peter Walsh, 1:49:03; 3.
Greg Wallace, 1:52:31; 4. William P.
Johnson, 2:05:12; 5. Philip Brown,
2:07:58.

31 to 39 — 1. Bob Woofter, 1:31:32;
2. Robert Sherwood, 1:38:52; 3. Burr
Datz, 1:45:15; 4. Page Remillard,
1:53:39.

40 and OVER — 1. Gary Fallon,
1:49:38; 2. Ivy, 1:58:46; 3. Bill
McHenry, 2:01:45.

WOMEN — 1. Laura Cox, 1:41:52;
2. Debbie Whelihan, 1:51:22.

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

BOB WOOFTER...wins triathlon

Linksters finish fourth in ODAC

The Washington and Lee golf team
saved its best performance of the
season for the ODAC Tournament
Thursday and Friday, firing a two-
day team total of 624 to finish fourth.

W&L was led by junior captain
Greg Wheeler, who shot rounds of 77
and 76 on the par-70 Hanover Country
Club for a 153 total. Wheeler finished
in a four-way tie for fifth place in
individual competition, good enough
to earn him all-ODAC honors.

W&L shot a season-low 309 in the
first round to trail Lynchburg College
and Division II Randolph-Macon Col-
lege by 13 shots and Roanoke College
by two shots. Freshman Chip Gist
carded a 74 to lead the Generals.

The second round, marred by win-

dy weather, saw the team scores rise

somewhat. Lynchbuiy, ranked 10th
nationally in Division III, shot 308 to
edge Randolph-Macon by one shot.
Roanoke, which finished third, had a
313 total Friday, two shots better

 

Save the hassle of taking
your clothes home for the
summer. Store them at
University Cleaners and pick
them up fresh in the fall.

$5.00 storage fee plus cleaning cost

$1.00 discount on storage fee by presenting this ad.

 

7 NORTH JEFFERSON STREET
LEXINGTON, VA. 24460
703-463-3622

than W&L’s 315. Hampden-Sydney fi-
nished fifth and Bridgewater sixth.

Gist finished with a 157 total.
Freshman Gary Campbell and soph-
omore Mark Zavatsky both had 157
totals.

Lax rebounds over Loyola

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

You'd think a lacrosse team that
just had suffered its worst loss of the
season and was down 7-2 in what
looked every bit like loss number
eight would hang it up.

Guess again.

Washington and Lee’s lacrosse
Generals, a group that has seen little
in the way of scoreboard rewards in
’85, pulled itself out of a first period
hole against Loyola on Sunday and
rallied in the final quarter to defeat
the Greyhounds, 13-12.

“Tt got to a point [in the Loyola
game] where I think our guys were
saying, ‘I’m tired of this,’ ‘I don’t
deserve this’ and ‘I’m not going to let
the season beat us,’’’ head coach
Dennis Daly said. W&L then came
back and won the game.

The Generals (3-7) fell behind 4-0 in
the first quarter but cut the Grey-
hounds’ lead to 7-5 by the end of the
period.

“They came back because there
was something there, something in-
side them. They won that game for
themselves,’’ Daly said.

In the second quarter, the
Generals’ first and second defensive
units held Loyola scoreless and the
teams went to the locker rooms with
the score tied.

W&L fell behind in the third

WASHINGTON & LEE
BOOKSTORE

Josten’s ring representative will be at the
Bookstore May 9-11, 10a.m.-3p.m.
ALUMNI WEEKEND: Open Friday, May 10

until 5:00 p.m. and Saturday, May 11, 9 a.m. to

4p.m.

SNACK BAR: Saturday, May 11, 9a.m.-4 p.m,

Sale Items On Selected Merchandise

LIMITED SIZES

.
Zoe

©

 

119 SOUTH MAIN, LEXINGTON 463-9491

Mother's Day Gifts and Cards
and

Graduation Gifts, Cards and Partyware
HOURS: 9:00.a.m. to5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday

 

quarter and started the fourth period
down 9-8. However, a goal from
senior attackman Mark Knobloch
knotted things to start a five-goal
final quarter for the Generals. Junior
attackman Bill Holmes scored the
game-winning tally on an assist from
classmate Caulley Deringer.

Daly said the Generals put forth a
total team effort to earn the victory.
“I think we played to our potential,”
he said.

Sparking the W&L victory were the
three-goal performances of senior at-
tackmen Rod Santomassimo and
Sandy Brown. Holmes and Knobloch
had two goals each in the victory.
Holmes also added three assists to
his work for the day. Junior G.T. Cor-
rigan registered three assists as well.
Goalie John DiDuro recorded 15
saves on the day.

The 1985 season comes to a close on
Saturday when the Generals face off
against University of Maryland-Bal-
timore County (UMBC) on Wilson
Field.

Daly isn’t sure how his team will
play on Saturday against the 2-10 Re-
trievers.

South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

 

 

“T don’t know where we are now.
Certainly, we are a team that could
win three of its last four games,” he
said, indicating that preparations for
the final game were made easier by
the Loyola win.

Daly also said that the UMBC
game at home would give a chance to
show ‘‘what this team is capable of
doing.”

The Retrievers are also looking to
follow a big win. UMBC defeated
Maryland in its last outing, 15-14, in
overtime at College Park.

Senior midfielder John Rodkey,
who scored five times against the
Terrapins, including the game-win-
ner, is UMBC’s leading scorer with 21
goals and 10 assists. Other scoring
leaders for UMBC are junior attack-
man Jeff Flaig (17 goals, 8 assists)
and junior midfielder Mark Hodkin
(Il goals, 8 assists).

UMBC’s goaltending duties are in
the hands of junior Dan Schaffer.
Schaffer is averaging 13.4 saves per
game and is stopping 63.9 percent of
his opponents’ shots.

W&L leads the series between the
two teams, 4-2. The Retrievers won
last year, 12-8.

Chinese and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails
Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesdaythrough Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘1 RAVEL UNLIMITED

Travel to exotic land
this summer - Call

The Professionals At
463-7174

* Eurail Pass

* Apex Fares

* Special Discounts
* Domestic Rates

* Honeymoons

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1985, Page 7

VMI stops

 

|Vinnie’s day

 

 

aon

....It’s a funny thing, watching a
Stellar athletic performance.
(That’s “funny” as in ‘“‘ha, ha’’ and
“strange.”’) Witness one Vinnie
Johnson's performance in Sunday’s

TIME

 

 

OUT...

By Mike
Stachura

NBA playoff game in Detroit.

as a basketball player can get in

 

 

performance the situations of any playoff game and the particulars
of Sunday’s contest and you are left with an exhibition that is note-
worthy, if not downright amazing.

Detroit, down 2-1 in its series with Boston, was winning in Game 4
by four points at the half only to see the Celtics blast their way to an
11-point lead to start the final quarter.

Enter Mr. Johnson — that’s Johnson as in ‘‘J.’’.

Johnson proceeded to hit the ‘‘j’’ from all over the floor...and not
miss. The Pistons’ sixth man hit the first six attempts he had in the
second half while his teammates held the world champs scoreless to
start the final quarter. Johnson ended the game with 34 points, 22 in
the final quarter, to lead his team to the win.

Trivial facts and stats aside, it was fun to watch Johnson go.
Words like “‘uncanny,”’ ‘‘amazing,” ‘‘oh,” ‘‘my’’ and ‘‘gosh’’ seem
the only appropriate descriptive phrases. Johnson had one of those
moments that we all will watch on ‘‘Greatest Sports Legends’”’
someday, or at least on an ad for WTBS coverage of the NBA.

So what, my wonderful audience is saying. We saw the game, and
big deal, this sub comes off the bench and does well, again, so
what? Well it’s the old bit about watching excellence and admiring
it simply because it is excellence. It was not Boston vs. Detroit,
anymore, it was Vinnie vs. missing. And Vinnie won.

It is this kind of performance that makes us forget the plasticity
of the NBA and its second-season monotony. There are still good
games in the NBA, i.e., the league lives up to its hype.

But aside from any commercial benefit, we still have Vinnie
Johnson showing us what it means to be the best you can be. And it
is fun to watch that sort of thing. He gets the pass back outside,
goes up, double pumps and pow! It’ll go.

Fans cheer for that sort of thing, impartial fans cheer for that sort
of thing. Why? Because that is what this game and any game is all
about. It is the kind of thing you can see on the Little League field,
in an occasional intramural game or even in one of those football
games you and your friends used to play: somebody having a great
day, the kind of a day that everybody in sight stands up and takes
notice of. It is, as well, the only reason any of us ever goes out to
participate in anything: to have that good day and be the star.

And that is why we laugh out loud in spite of ourselves when we
see somebody pul! a Vinnie Johnson. Secretly, we are wishing for
the day when we, too, grab that spot in the sun, if only for a very
short while...

....Strolling down the sun-drenched Colonnade, a hearty con-
gratulations to Coach Gary Franke and his hard-working and well-

next week. A request: Let’s get some kind of fan support for the
home team on Monday...Glad to see the lacrosse bunch rebound
from Roanoke disaster. Hard work does pay off...And for those who
wrote off the baseball team a month ago (myself included): Coach
Jim Murdock is entitled to every ‘I told you so’”’ he wants. Con-
gratulations (and apologies) are much in order....

.... Speaking of the NBA, that lottery idea may be the best idea

Mullin >sell-and lock into Wayman Tisdale, Michael Jor-
dan..*

believe either the Nordiques or the Flyers are going to touch the
Great Gretzky and Co....

a Finally, from the You-Wouldn’t-Expect-It-From-Anyone-Else
Dept.: ‘I don’t think anybody in the country can recruit as well as I
can. There’s not a guy, or school, I'd be afraid to go up against.”
That was Ed Green, head coach of basketball at Roanoke College,
quoted in the Richmond Times-Dispatch about his interest in the
coaching jobs at both JMU and VCU.....

 

(hold on to your sports prejudices)
Johnson was more or less as hot

Sunday’s playoff game. Add to that

deserving tennis players on getting that invitation to their own party

that league ever had,..And for those of, you aie dsteck in Chris _
xt

....In those NHL playoffs, Quebec looks like a lot of fun, but I don’t

 

 

 

 

ruggers

From Staff Reports

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A group of W&L rugby players converge on a VMI opponent in action from Saturday’s game.

The Washington and Lee rugby
club fell behind early in its match
against cross town rival Virginia
Military Institute and never came all
the way back, losing 10-6 on Saturday
at the P parade grounds.

The loss dropped the ruggers’
spring season mark to 5-3.

“It was a really close game
throughout,’’ said the club's acting
captain, P.J. lerardi. ‘‘In the second
half, we got close a few times but just
couldn’t put it in.”’

The lone score for W&L came in the
second half on a give and go from
lerardi to John Miller. Pete Papa-
savas added the conversion.

lerardi cited the play of Al Roberts
and Marlow Cook as exceptional de-
spite the loss.

The club concludes its season on
May 18 with a contest against the
Chesapeake Club.

Ninth-inning woes plague W&L baseball

 

By WILLIAM KING
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee baseball
team concluded its season with three
tough losses, including a one-run loss
to eventual Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament champion
Bridgewater in the tourney’s semifi-
nal. The losses put the Generals’
season mark at 6-21.

Yesterday, the Generals fell 7-5 at
home to Newport News Apprentice.

The Generals raced to a 3-0 lead in
the first four innings. Hugh Finkels-
tein singled in Bill White in the first
and Bill Curtiss scored White and
Finkelstein in the third with a double.

Newport News exploded for five
runs in the fifth to take the lead for
good at 5-3.

White did cut the margin to one in
the bottom of the inning, however.
Bill Schoettelkotte followed White’s
single with a double to score the sén-
ior co-captain.

Two runs in the eighth by Newport
News sealed the victory. Schoettel-
kotte’s solo home run in the bottom of

the eighth ended the scoring.

Yesterday’s contest marked the fi-
nal game as Generals for White, fel-
low co-captain Mike Jacoby and out-
fielder Chip Hutchins.

After defeating Lynchburg in last
Wednesday's ODAC quarterfinal, the
Generals were on the verge of mak-
ing their second consecutive appear-
ance in the ODAC championship
game only to have Bridgewater score
three runs in the bottom of the ninth
inning to win 8-7.

Schoettelkotte, playing first base in
the game, was a one-man wrecking
crew at the plate, driving in six of the
seven General runs with a grand
slam home run, a solo homer and a
runscoring single.

The sophomore’s grand slam and
solo home run got the Generals to a
toa 5-5 tie after four innings.

With a run in the fifth and a White
round-tripper in the top of the ninth,
W&L led 7-5 going into the last frame.
But Bridgewater capitalized on two
General errors in the ninth to rally
for the win. Freshman Carter
Steuart, who got the loss for W&L,

Trackmen close in on QT’s

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

Despite some outstanding _ in-
dividual performances last weekend
at the James Madison University In-
vitational, several Generals fell short
in their attempts to qualify for the
NCAA Division III National Cham-
pionships.

Tom Murray won the shot put with
a distance of 45’ 4’. Although Mark
Pemberton placed second with his
fastest time this year in the 800
meters (1:53.9), he failed to make the

qualifying time (1:52.3). Andy White

 

 

 

Happy
Mother’s Day
to the Phi moms!!!

  

     
    

115 S. Main Street

    

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

“‘For your extra pieces of furniture’’

463-2742

 

 
   

 

 

 

ee ee ee ee eS

  

 

Aluin-Bennis

 

Sero Shirts

 

(Since 1963)

Choice

  

MasterCard
9-5:30 Monday-Saturday

 

Welcome Alumni

Sport Coats and Suits
by Haspel & Gant

Bass Weejuns & Topsider Shoes
Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek
Duck Head Cotton Pants
Bermuda Shorts plaids & solids
OP & Bird Well Swim Suits
WE&L - Belts - Ties - Key Chains

 
 
     

   
 
     
       
       
  

Student Charge

    

 

 

 

was running well in the 110-meter
hurdles until he disqualified himself
when he hit a hurdle.

~» This Sunday,-several Generals will-
try again to qualify for the nationals
at the University of Virginia Invita-
tional. Coach Norris Aldridge plans
to take Tim McLaughlin, Tom Mur-
ray, Mark Pembroke and Andy
White to this weekend's meet.

Phase |
a key location . .

Borden Commons

 

pitched well in relief of starter Pete
Detlefs before being replaced by
White in the ninth with the score 7-6.
White got one batter out before sur-
rendering a bases-loaded sacrifice
fly that gave the Eagles the win.

Monday, W&L was victimized
again by a ninth-inning collapse as
next door neighbor VMI scored seven
times in the bottom of the ninth to
defeat the Generals 10-9.

VMI scored two runs in the bottom
of the first against Schoettelkotte to
lead 2-1, but W&L regained the lead
in the second by scoring two more of
its own.

The Generals used nine hits in their
next six innings to build a comfort-
able 9-3 lead heading into the last of
the ninth.

In the Keydets, final at-bat, Schoet-
telkotte walked the bases full and
was then replaced by Steuart. He was
chased after VMI cut the margin to
one with a passed ball, a run-scoring
single and a three-run home run.

Detlefs was the next General to try
to stifle VMI. He gave up a double
to the first batter he faced, and the
runner went to third on a sacrifice
bunt. Detlefs fanned the next batter
for the second out, but VMI tied the
game 9-9 when a run scored on the
second passed ball of the inning.

VMI then loaded the bases again
with a single, an error and a walk.
White replaced Detlefs, but the
Keydets benefited from another W&L
error to score the winning run on a
ground ball.

 

Dressed, and

22 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

Clothes for Men and Ladies

The Difference Between
ZA aXe |

Open Friday nights until 9 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

St mht - rm A

<a Ne A

 

 

COMMONS

Lexington’'s First Condominium Community

     

Lexington community. And thanks to the favorable public response . . .
. and a design to complement its historic setting, our
success has been overwhelming. Only a few units remain to be sold in

Phase 1.

Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condo-
minium living? A wide variety of floor plans with a selection of interior
layouts are still available.

Borden Commons, Lexington’s first condominium community . . .
to be in the perfect place, now is the perfect time. You'd better act now!

Borden Commons Condominium

Baker Real Estate
Post Office Box 723

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Ottice (703) 463-7
[om Baker (703) 463-2510 - evenings
Dick Emrey — (703) 463-4362 -

taeee

Only three months ago, Borden Commons was presented to the

evenings

De mma RI ARISEN TE SMM YSN N y¥p my oP REN SEER

    

   

"i

ut!

 

 
eBack Page

Final pavilion concert
ends ° year of testing’

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Jim Hakim, lead singer of the Back Doors, entertained pavilion-goers
Saturday night in the SAB’s last concert of the 1984-85 school year.

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
“The Back Page”’ Editor

 

Last Saturday’s concert in the stu-
dent activities pavilion marked the
end of what the Washington and Lee
Student Activities Board calls ‘‘a
year of testing,’’ and the SAB says it
will soon be looking at what kind of
future lies ahead for the pavilion.

“T was kind of disappointed with
the turnout we had on Saturday,”
said SAB Entertainment Director
John Crawford. The concert featured
the Back Doors, a band that plays on-
ly the music of Jim Morrison and the
Doors.

Crawford said he felt the problem
with that concert and some of the
previous pavilion concerts was the
reluctance on the part of W&L stu-
dents to go to the pavilion to see some
lesser-known bands. ‘‘People turned
out for the shows like Thorogood, but
if the act doesn’t have a platinum
album, chances are there won’t be a
big crowd at the pavilion,” he said.

The SAB has spent this year exper-
imenting with different acts to put in

The Ring-tum Phi

the pavilion according to Crawford
The idea behind this, he says, is to
see what kind of acts the W&L com
munity wall support.

“We've tried to stay away from the
old stuff that everybody has heard,”
Crawford said. ‘‘We really want to
try to bring in some newer bands.”’

Crawford added that it is some-
times difficult to find acts for the
pavilion. The SAB, he explained, is
limted to bands touring in the area
and also by the amount of money that
can be spent on the concert. ‘‘A
school of W&L’s size cannot support a
$30,000 concert,”’ he said.

The SAB will begin making plans
for next year’s pavilion schedule as
soon as next year’s SAB membership
has been decided, Crawford said. He
added that the pavilion will still be in
active use next year, possibly with
one or two fewer concerts overall.

Crawford stressed the fact that the
SAB wants to provide the kind of en-
tertainment that the W&L communi-
ty wants to see and encourages stu-
dents to let the SAB know what kind
of acts they would like to see in future
pavilion concerts.

Lee-Hi: ‘It’s a must for a liberal education’

 

By PAUL DAVEY
and RUSTY JOHNSON
Restaurant Critics

 

Since spring term usually means
increased trips to Mary Baldwin Col-
lege, the traveling restaurant critics
have found a source of good food —
the Lee-Hi Truck Stop Restaurant.

The Lee-Hi, on U.S. 11 a few miles
north of Lexington, is a fine dining
center that offers more than its fair
share of atmosphere.

The food really is good. One of the
items from the menu we tried was
the cheeseburger. It. was the best
cheeseburger that we have tried in
Lexington. It contained real meat, a
good slice of cheese and fresh vegeta-
bles. It tasted like one of those good
burgers you usually find in a corner
drugstore. You really can’t beat this
burger — not even with a big stick —
especially with a price of $1.40.

The other selection we sampled
was a sirloin patty smothered in
beefy gravy that couldn’t have come
out of a can, and plenty of sauteed
onions. The serving was generous
and tasted homemade. It was accom-
panied by green beans and hot mash-
ed potatoes and gravy. This was a
good meal and when supplemented
with a healthy piece of apple pie
made for a filling dinner.

Of course, the life and death of a
truck stop revolves around one thing
— its coffee. The Lee-Hi brew is hot,
flavorful and it doesn’t taste like it
was brewed back in January.

Although they serve tasty, large
iced teas in big tumblers and syrupy
soft drinks, the complimentary water
tastes like it came out of a garden
hose.

Aside from the simple truck stop
specialities we ordered, the Lee-Hi
offers a wide variety of dishes rang-
ing from seafood (in Lexington?) to

lo-cal cottage cheese plates. A daily
special — for a reasonable price — is
offered. A typical daily special might
be ‘franks and beans”’ or a similar
down-home meal.

Along with the good food, another
attraction of the Lee-Hi is the atmos-
phere. Where else in Lexington can
one dine in the midst of CB radio ac-
cessories, night kits and various and
numerous alarm clocks?

The place is truly amazing. There
is a sunglass rack that has a mirror-
ed glasses that one might find in the
home of a motorcycle club member.
And if you like 8-track tapes, the Lee-
Hi now has them on sale for only
$2.99. If you don’t know which tape
you want, you can try to match a tape
with a song on the juke box.

Cartons and cartons of cigarettes
line the walls of the diner. We esti-
mated that there were more than 500
cartons of various brands of smokes,

Film Society closes
season with opera

The Film Society’s final presenta-
tion of the season will be Franco
Zeffirelli’s production of Giuseppe
Verdi’s ‘‘La Traviata.”

The film will be shown tomorrow
through Sunday in Classroon A of the
W&L Law School. Screenings will be-
gin at 8 p.m. each evening. Admis-
sion is free.

The 1983 performance of Verdi's
opera is in Italian with English subti-
tles and features of Verdi’s opera is
in Italian with English subtitles and
features Teresa Stratas, Placido Do-
mingo and Cornell MacNeill.

“Under Zeffirelli’s direction, the
work becomes a lavish and visually-
stunning blend of film and grand
opera,’ said Richard Grefe, faculty
adviser to the Film Society.

 

 

town Pizza Hut” restaurant!
It's not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. PB So
come on in. Bring the whole

 

sor mk iw
f Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered 1

®
F 122 OFF

' $2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium, In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
# Pizza! Hurry; offer ex
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
a participating Pizza Hut*
a restaurants

Please present when order

a h redemption value © 1983 Pizza H

@ Better hurry to your home

mee
a
ie

  
 

 

 

family @ We'll pile on aie

of pure mozzarella cheese and
all your favorite toppings.
There’s no better time to try |
our unparalleled Pizza Hut”
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

 

me ARE a et oe msm

 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexinatsa, VA
452-/000

oO

5-31-85

so you can just duck in and pick up a
carton or two for your date at Mary
Baldwin —a sure hit!

Since it is generally our policy to
inspect the ‘facilities’ at the restau-
rants we review, we made our way
toward the rest rooms. We were
halted when we noticed the sign
above the door: ‘‘Showers.’’ We don’t
know about you, but the thought of
racing into a shower room loaded
with sweaty truckers did not strike us
as the brilliant thing to do. In the
name of safety over journalistic ac-
curacy, we decided to leave the in-
spection of the Lee-Hi showers and
restroom to the county board of
health.

If you really want to experience the
Lee-Hi, you should try to fit in. The
best way to do this would seem to be
to put on a pair of grimy Dickey’s
work pants, your best snap-front

 
 
 

  

Vehicles Included
in the Plan.

You may choose a
new 1985 Thunderbird,
LTD, Tempo, Mustang,
Escort, Bronco II or
light trucks up to F-250,
Marquis, Cougar, Topaz
or Lynx.

*Pre-Approved Credit.
Just meet three simple
conditions:

 
  
  
  
  
  
 

  
 

   
 
  

vehicle purchase at a salary

* You must have verifiable employ- BE
ment that begins within 120 days of your

Western cut shirt (with a yoke, of
course), a pair of steel-toed work
boots and a curved-brimmed ball cap
containing at least eight fluid ounces
of motor oil. You’d really fit in if you
were to grow your sideburns for a
few days manicure your fingernails
until they were bright yellow and
thick enough to remove screws. Even
if you don’t want to play the part of a
trucker, you probably won't get your
head kicked in if you show up in a
pair of Duckheads and a Brooks
Brothers shirt.

The reading audience might be
asking, ‘‘Do you guys really eat at
places like this often?’’ No, not often,
but we try to uncover new untapped
sources of good food such as the Lee-
Hi. It’s not the typical greasy spoon,
but instead, a nice place to get a good
meal for about $5. So stop in if you’re
out U.S. 11 sometime — it’s a must
for a liberal education.

 

Courtesy Ford/Mercury
Has a special gift for upcoming graduates

“APPROVED
CREDIT F or

May 9, 1985

 

Thursda
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: *

8 p.m. — FILM: “‘La Traviata”

Sunday,
8 p.m. — FILM:

7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM:
203.

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘
merce School 327.

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM:
327.

1965). Reid 203.

 

Reid 203.

8 p.m. — FILM: ‘Black Orpheus.”’

Sponsored by History Department.
Friday,

Monday,
‘Othello.’

7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM:

ONCAMPUS

y, May9
The Castle.
7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM:

*’ Commerce School 327.
“Hamlet.’’ (Richardson, 1970).

In Portuguese, English subtitles.
Commerce School 221.

May 10

11 a.m, — RECITAL: Chamber music by pianist Robert Vienneau,
violinist David Andrews, and cellist Ian Banwell. Lee Chapel.

in Italian, English subtitles. Sponsor-
ed by Film Society. Lewis Hall, Classroom A.

Saturday, May 11
8 p.m. —F ILM: ‘‘La Traviata’’ Lewis Hall, Classroom A.

May 12

‘‘La Traviata’’’ Lewis Hall, Classroom A.

May 13
’ (Yutkevich, 1955). Reid

Wednesday, May 14
Robinson Crusoe.”’

(Bunuel, 1954). Com-

Thursday, May 16
‘Robinson Crusoe.’’ Commerce School

“Othello.” (Dexter and Burge, ,

a _

 

 

 

d
SERVIDTAR:
23 §. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450
Lexington Hardware

463-2242

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

i 23 NORTH MAIN STREET
\ LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

Trainee
Opportunity

 

in Virginia

resume to:

 

P.O. Box 8814 }
Virginia Beach, VA 23450

 

 

 

 

(pease

 

 

   
  

 
 

  
  
   

   
  

  

sufficient to cover

ordinary living expenses and your vehicle payment.
¢ You must have proof that you have graduated or will graduate
and be awarded at least a bachelor's degree within 120 days.

  
 

=o

¢ Your credit record, if
you have one, must indi-
cate payment made as

agreed.

**$400 Purchase

Allowance.
Make your best deal...use the
$400 as a down payment or receive a
$400 check directly from Ford after the sale.

 

    
 

Ford Motor
Credit

Bele)

ets

 

 

 

  

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista

 

   

Dealer No. 1916

Courtesy Ford/Mercury

261-2112/2113

 

Stockbroker |

Beach for hard-working, en-]
thusiastic individual. Send}.

First Jersey Securities, Inc.|:

   
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
     

    
     
