 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VOLUME 84, NUMBER 14

Time Out...

Is anyone
No. 1?

 

| General
‘| Notes

 

When to report

The new budget schedules for
,| Subcommittee chairmen are
available in the Student Center
“| mailboxes. Student body Vice
.| President James White will meet
with the chairmen on Monday at
* | 6:30 p.m. in the Executive Com-
mittee office.

Wanted: Phi photogs

Anyone interested in being a
Ring-tum Phi photographer
should attend an organizational
+] meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Reid

203

CR meeting

The College Republicans will
hold a general meeting Tuesday,
at 7:30 p.m. in Room 114 of the
Student Center. All members are
urged to attend to discuss plans
for the February state convention
in Roanoke.

Applications due

Applications for freshmen dor-
mitory counselor positions for
next year are being accepted, and
forms may be obtained from the
»| Dean of Students’ office. Current
dorm counselors should return the
forms by noon tomorrow and new
applicants should return them by
noon Wednesday.

MD meeting Sun.

All students interested in the
Muscular Dystrophy Superdance
shoulkt-attend-an-important meet-
ing Sunday at7 p.m. in the Student
Center.

‘| King Day celebration

The Student Association for
«| Black Unity and the Black Law
Students’ Association of W&L and
Promaji of VMI will sponsor a
*| Martin Luther King Day celebra-
tion Tuesday at 7 p.m., at First
Baptist Church, 103 N. Main St.
*| The Rev. Rudolph Featherstone,
theology professor at Trinity
Lutheran Seminary in Columbus,
Ohio, will be the featured speaker.

.| Radio-active?

. WLUR-FM, the campus radio
station, will hold its winter term
organizational meeting tonight at
» | 7:30 in Reid 203. Anyone in-
terested in working for the radio
station should attend the meeting
* | and bring a pen.

-| ROTC applications

Applications now are being
. | taken from sophomore students
interested in a two-year Army
* | ROTC scholarship. The scholar-
» | ship covers full tuition, textbooks,
supplies, laboratory fees and
other academic expenses. Schol-
» | arship cadets also receive a tax-
free living allowance of up to
$1,000 each school year the schol-
arship is in effect. Interested
students should contact Major
Smith at 463-8480 before Jan. 22.

IM basketball

. Weekly freshman intramural
~ | basketball games will begin Mon-
day. Dorm counselors will have
‘ | details on the event. Dan DuPre’s
hall will be going for its second
championship.

Ice Hockey Club

The W&L Ice Hockey Club has
ice time Sunday in Roanoke.
Members should meet in the gym-
nasium parking lot at 6 p.m.

Auditions slated

Auditions for the first two of
four student-directed, one-act
plays will be held in the Boiler
Room Theater on Monday, Tues-
day and Wednesday at7 p.m.

Proofs available

Senior proofs will be available
for selection Jan. 14-17 from 8
p.m. to 10:30 p.m. in the Calyx of-
fice, upstairs in the Student
Center. Bring your checkbook.

 

 

 

       
 
 

THE UNiver:
WAGHINGTON © if
KEXINGTOM, VR. é

 

 

 

 

Hit the Slopes

Where to ski
in the area

 

   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

The Back Page

Your Weekend Weather

 

 

ys ii

 

 

 

 

JAN 11 1985

Che KRing-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

2) Snow 1-3” by Friday;
: weekend highs in 30s

 

 

JANUARY 10, 1985

Independents top frats’ GPAs

Frosh independents: 2.54; pledges: 2.17

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

Independents received markedly
higher average grades last term than
did fraternity members, and ad-
ministrators said the gap between
the grade point averages for the two
groups was the greatest in memory.

The average GPA for non-fra-
ternity members was 2.736; the
average for fraternity members was
2.527. The GPA for non-fraternity
members was also higher than that
of any single fraternity. A year ago,
four fraternities had averages higher
than the GPA for non-fraternity
students.

The GPA disparity is even more
clear among members of the fresh-
man class. Freshmen independents
had a GPA of 2.543, while freshmen
pledges had a 2.174 average.

Also, 73 freshmen — one-fifth of the
class — had grade point averages
below 1.5 and therefore are on
academic probation and can par-
ticipate in only one extracurricular
activity. Any freshman with ‘an
average below 1.9 is ineligible for in-
itiation into a fraternity.

“This was really the first year in
my memory in which there was a
significant difference between
fraternities and non-fraternities,”
said Dean of Students Lewis G. John.

University Registrar Harold S.

Head echoed that assessment. ‘‘This
is the first time that I remember non-
fraternity men being at the top”’ of
the academic rankings, he said.

Dan N. Murphy, associate dean of
students for fraternity affairs, said
he was uncertain why fraternity
grades had fallen off so sharply in
relation to independents’ grades.

“I don’t know whether fraternities
are taking more time away from
their freshmen than usual,’’ Murphy
said, “‘but with the difference be-
tween non-fraternity and fraternity
grades, I would hope they would take
a greater interest in the academic
success of their freshmen.”

Murphy joined the other admin-
istrators in the observation that this
was the first year there has been
such a notable difference in the GPAs
of the two groups.

Interfraternity Council President
David L. Perdue, a senior and a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
said he was ‘‘shocked and disap-
pointed”’ by the decline in fraternity
performance.

“This is the first time I’ve seen this
change — usually non-fraternity men
are somewhere in the middle or
slightly above the average,” he said.

“T don’t think fraternities have
changed their pledging program ina
significant way that would have af-
fected freshman performance,’’ he
added.

“T don’t know if this is a one-time
occurrence — at this point, I think
there are too many other factors in-
volved than just the fraternities to
explain the change.”’

One factor noted by both Perdue
and administrators that may be hav-
ing an impact on freshman grades is
the new set of general education re-
quirements that went into effect this
fall.

The guidelines require students to
take mathematics, laboratory
science and foreign language
classes. Before this year, students
had a choice between math and
science, and English fulfilled the
language requirement.

Dean John said those requirements
may have led to the overall decline in
freshman academic performance,

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson agreed. ‘‘The

 

GPAs by class

Seniors

Juniors

Sophomores

Freshmen

The list: how fall GPAs stack up

2.811

Z

2.720

2.526

2.253

 

 

new curricular requirements may Grade-Point
have placed students in courses that Average
they may not have taken before,”’ she Non-Fraternity 2.736 Zeta Beta Tau 2.561
said. Sigma Nu 2.725 Sigma Chi 2.554
The language and math require- Pi Kappa Alpha 2.679 Pi Kappa Phi 2.541
ments seem to be especially Sigma Phi Epsilon 2.676 All Fraternity 2.527
troublesome for freshmen. ‘‘That’s Kappa Alpha 2.666 Sigma Alpha Epsilon _—2.480
where the grades went down,” Simp- Phi Kappa Sigma 2.660 Kappa Sigma 2.333
son noted. Phi Delta Theta 2.638 Delta Tau Delta 2.314
The GPA for all freshmen last fall All Men 2.592 Phi Gamma Delta 2.306
was 2.319; this year it was 2.253. In Chi Psi 2.585 Lambda Chi Alpha 2.279
1982 there were 33 first-year students Phi Kappa Psi 2.577 Beta Theta Pi 2.112

on academic probation and 50 in 1983,
compared to this year’s 73.

 

 

 

‘Scot free’: Mesner case dismissed

 

By BRUCE POTTER
Chief Editor

 

After 34% months in jail and 2%
days of trial, Scot Tanner Mesner
was free.

Surrounded by reporters in the en-
trance hall of the Rockbridge County
Courthouse, Mesner — who had been
charged with arson and murder in
connection with last spring’s frater-
nity house fire — lighted a cigarette
while he listened to the questions
fired at him.

What was your reaction to the out-
come?

“‘We pretty well proved that no one
could identify me.”

What about the testimony of Frank
Lane, a cellmate who said Mesner
confessed to the crime while being
held in the Rockbridge County Jail?

“T’m quite annoyed at him, but I’m
free so I’m not going to say anything
else about him.”’

What would have happened if the
case had gone to the jury?

“T would have had a chance. Not a
good one after him (Frank).”’ Then,
ignoring the blinding klieg light and
looking directly into a_ television
camera, Mesner added, ‘‘Have fun,
Frank.”

Less than five minutes earlier, Cir-
cuit Judge George E. Honts III had
announced his decision to dismiss the
charges against Mesner because his
due process of law may have been
violated.

Honts’ dismissal followed a two-
hour hearing on a request from
Mesner’s lawyers that the case be
dismissed because of what they call-
ed ‘‘prosecutorial misconduct.”

 

Honts said that in attempting to
place Mesner at the scene of the fire,
investigators used ‘a suggestive
technique” that resulted in ‘tainted
identifications.’’

In addition, Honts said, the defense
was not given the names of several
people who failed to identify Mesner
from a photographic lineup as having
been at the scene of the fire.

Mesner faced the arson and
murder charges in connection with
the April 11 fire that gutted the Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity house and
killed Washington and Lee soph-
omore Thomas J. Fellin, who was
asleep in the house.

Calling 14 witnesses to support his
case, Commonwealth’s Attorney
Beverly C. ‘‘John’’ Read attempted
to prove that the fire was caused by
arson and that Mesner may have
held a grudge against Fellin and the
Phi Gamma Delta house.

In his opening statement, however,
Mesner’s attorney, Eric L. Sisler,
said he would call an arson in-
vestigator who would show that the
fire was not arson. He said the
defense also would attempt to show
that Mesner was asleep in his
parents’ home on the Hollins College
campus shortly after the fire.

After Read rested his case early
Dec. 21, the third day of the trial,
Mesner’s other attorney, G. Marshall
Mundy of Roanoke, requested the
dismissal. After hearing Mundy’s
evidence and deliberating in his
chambers for 45 minutes, Honts
agreed.

Mesner, 19, cannot be tried again
on the same charges because of 5th
Amendment protection from what is
known as double jeopardy.

During the hearing on Mundy’s re-
quest, two witnesses said that
although they originally had iden-
tified Mesner as being at the scene of
the fire, they no longer could do so.

Mundy charged that Read failed to
inform defense lawyers of these
witnesses’ changes, contrary to an
order issued by Honts Nov. 8. A third
witness during the hearing said he
was shown a photographic lineup but
could not identify Mesner. His name
was never given to the defense, Mun-
dy added.

In his Nov. 8 order, which followed
an evidence hearing, Honts ruled
that the prosecution must disclose
any information that could tend to ex-
onerate the defendant.

“Since identification is a key ele-
ment in this particular case,”
Honts’ order continued, ‘‘I direct that
the identity of any material
witness who failed to identify the
defendant in a photograph line-up be
made known to the defendant.”’

Warren Nowlin, a Richmond at-
torney who graduated from the W&L
Law School in May, said that during
the summer two investigators show-
ed him a series of photographs and
asked if he could identify any of them
as people he had seen at the fire.

Nowlin, who had taken photo-
graphs of the fire that had been in-
troduced into evidence by the pro-
O See Trial, Page 3

become lovers.

campus.

Ayers added.

icated.

member of Fiji.

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
News Editor

 

The abrupt end to the Scot Mesner trial elicited reac-
tions ranging from disappointment that the cause of the
fraternity fire may never be known, torelief on the part
of at least one juror who was glad he didn’t have to
decide the case.

“The tragedy of what has occurred is that we may
never know what caused that fire,’’ Alumni Director
Richard B. Sessoms said of the blaze that killed Fellin
and gutted the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house, for
which Sessoms was faculty adviser.

A juror in the trial, Charles St. Clair of Glasgow, also
was disappointed that the trial ended early, but not
because he wanted to convict Mesner.

“From the evidence that I saw, there wouldn’t have
been enough to convict him,”’ St. Clair said.

He said he would have liked the trial to continue so the
defense could present its case and the jury could make
its decision, which he said probably would have been an
acquittal.

“At the point in time that [Commonwealth’s Attorney
Beverly C. ‘“John’’ Read] said the prosecution rested, I
really didn’t need to see any defense,”’ St. Clair said.

“‘T had seen enough evidence to convince me that ar-
son had been committed, but not near enough evidence
to find Scot Mesner guilty.’’

However, he said, some other jurors were leaning
toward a guilty verdict. One of those was Crawford E.
Goodbar of Lexington.

“From what we heard of the prosecuting attorney's
case, I felt yes,”’ there was enough evidence to convict,
Goodbar said.

Fellin’s family and friends who attended the trial

‘20 to 30 pitchers of water’

The following chronology of events before, during and after the April 11,
1984, Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house fire is based on testimony at a Sept.
19 bond hearing for Scot Tanner Mesner and at Mesner’s trial, Dec. 19-21:

June 1983 — Mesner meets Lisa Ayers, a Botetourt County resident who
enrolled at Hollins College in the fall of 1983. The two begin dating and

Late August — Mesner leaves to attend school at Fairleigh-Dickinson
University in Teaneck, N.J.

Late October — Mesner sets several small dormitory fires at Fairleigh-
Dickinson. He later is convicted of criminal mischief, a misdemeanor, and
fined $1,000. Mesner returns to Hollins College to live with his parents on

November — One weekend, Mesner and Ayers are locked out of Ayers’
dormitory room by Ayers’ roommate, Mary Katherine Smith, and her
boyfriend, Thomas J. Fellin, a W&L sophomore. That same weekend, Ayers
said, Mesner and Fellin tease each other and have a small food fight with
cherry tomatoes. Mesner and Fellin ‘didn’t like each other very much,”

Dec. 31 — Mesner fails to show for a New Year’s Eve date with Ayers, who
described this as ‘‘the straw that broke the camel’s back” in their relation-
ship. She said Mesner had repeatedly broken dates and often was intox-

January 1984 — Ayers begins dating Michael Berg, a W&L student and

Smith talks with Mesner in the computer room at Hollins. ‘What Lisa had
done (by dating Mike Berg) had a very depressing effect’ on Mesner, said
Smith, who added that she tried to explain Lisa’s position and told Mesner
that things such as this happen frequently.

Late March or early April — During a telephone conversation, Mesner
tells Ayers, ‘If the Fiji house burns, you'll know who did it.’’ Ayers said the
two, who still were friends, had been talking about her relationship with
Berg and her trips to visit him at W&L.

April 10, 10 p.m.-midnight — Timothy S. White, a W&L student who
CO See Chronology, Page 3

‘We may never know... .’

were reluctant to talk about the outcome this week.
Alex Castelli, Fellin’s roommate and co-president of the
fraternity, would not comment on the trial.

Thomas Fellin, the father of the victim, said from his
home in Pennsylvania, ‘‘The reaction I would have
right now would probably be vindictive and vengeful.”’

“Tl would like to take the opportunity to thank again
the people for their consideration, especially Dick
Sessoms, and most especially the men of Fiji,” he con-
tinued. ‘‘Their love and concern and consideration and
support will always be remembered.”

Fellin’s family stayed at a local hotel during the trial
as guests of the University.

Sessoms and St. Clair had some criticisms of the pro-
secution’s handling of the case, which ended when Cir-
cuit Judge George E. Honts III dismissed the charges
against Mesner because his right to due process of law
may have been violated.

“He [Read] pursued the thing with a great deal of
zeal, perhaps too much zeal, and perhaps that led to
some prosecutorial misconduct,’’ Sessoms said.

St. Clair’s criticism didn’t deal with the fact that the
case was thrown out, but that it was ever brought in.

“I don’t believe I would have taken him to trial with
the evidence [ Read] had,”’ St. Clair said.

Mesner, who could not be reached for comment this
week, has moved from his family’s home on the Hollins
College campus to an apartment in Roanoke, according
to a family member. His phone has not been connected
yet, the family member said

The only other person interviewed who was glad to
see the case end before it reached the jury was a juror
from Glasgow, Floyd W. Camden Jr., who didn’t relish
the thought of deciding Mesner’s fate.

“A man’s life is at stake and it’s a serious crime,”’
Camden said. ‘‘I was kind of relieved.”’
OPINION

 

Page 2
January 10, 1985

 

Frats:
Is the party over?

This week’s lead story reports some rather alarming
figures about fraternity academics. The response to the story
by many fraternities likely will be one of extreme defen-
siveness.

We are not picking on fraternities. In recent months we
have frequently come to their defense when they’ve been
under fire from other quarters. Fraternities make a valuable
contribution to campus life, and W&L wouldn’t be W&L with-
out them.

It is because of that desire to preserve and protect the |

fraternity system that we find the statistics from fall term so
disturbing.

The restrictive social policies imposed on fraternities this
year are instructive. The administration had said for years
that if the fraternities didn’t clean up their acts, tougher
regulations would result. “Johnny, if you tear up the house
while momimy’s gone, I’m going to have to get you a babysit-
ter.” The Hill followed through on its repeated warnings by
clamping down on fraternity party schedules.

A similar crackdown will most certainly result if fraternity
academic performances continue to slide. A large number of
faculty members are lying in wait for an excuse to perma-
nently banish the fraternities. The fraternities’ argument
that they are constructive members of the community is
hardly strengthened when the faculty sees that some fresh-
men are performing so poorly that a significant block of
pledges isn’t even eligible to initiate.

Whether the correlation between fraternity membership
and academic performance is as strong as it appears is ir-
relevant. As in so many cases, the perception is what counts,
and the fraternities are going to suffer severely at the hands
of the Hill if there continues to be such an embarrassing dis-
crepancy between the grades of those who do and those who
do not belong to fraternities.

Houses have a number of options available to them. The
fraternities at many universities have mandatory study halls
for their freshmen, and those who can’t perform in the class-
room may not participate in house social functions. The
house GPA is a matter of pride; abysmal grades are not
tolerated.

Few W&L fraternities have any kind of study program-for ‘

their freshmen. We applaud the effort of several houses to
help their freshmen develop sensible study habits, and hope
that other fraternities will follow their lead in providing re-
quired study halls for those with academic difficulties.

Something we encourage all houses to develop is an acade-
mic big brother program. This requires only a minimal
amount of ofganization, and allows freshmen to benefit from
the expertise of their house’s upperclassmen. It makes a
fraternity more than just a place to guzzle grain.

Several houses encourage academic excellence by pro-
viding rewards for the pledges with the best and most im-
proved academic performances. It’s a simple gesture that
shows freshmen that academics are as important to the their
brothers as the quality of their beer slides.

The survival of the fraternity system depends on the
houses’ willingness to take responsible steps toward improv-
ing their image. At this point, the fraternities’ public rela-
tions problem is mammoth but not irredeemable. Swift ac-
tion is necessary to prevent their otherwise inevitable
demise.

 

 

 

Ne

Nii)

ni

i

Nai

wees oe
a

vy
BV
MN

Ly
TTT et ee Pee

‘ Rosen
ST

 

 

   

RBACQUETBAK 50

Pounns !!!"

“SAY HARRY Let's “PLAY A LITT
| CAN CLOSE A FEW

 

 

 

During famine, death is not choosey

By DAVID LAMB
Los Angeles Times

 

(EDITORS' NOTE: The following is ex-
cerpted from a lengthy dispatch
published in the Los Angeles Times of
Dec. 30. Reprinted with permission of
the Los Angeles Times.)

ALAMATA, Ethiopia — ...A few
minutes before 7 a.m., Peter Jor-
dons, a Dutch doctor who has worked
with famine victims in Cambodia and
refugees in Tanzania, walked out of
the compound with an interpreter.
This was the triage, the grim daily
selection process of deciding who
could be saved and who could not.

“The bad thing,”’ he told an ac-
quaintance, “‘is that walking down
this line I have the feeling I am play-
ing God, and I don’t like that. I have a
ticket for food, for medicine, in my
hands. What if I make a mistake?
I’ve made them before. But we have
to make choices. Every morning is
the same.”

Jordons stopped before each of the
‘gaunt,-withered Ethiopians, check-
ing the fat on the childrens’ arms and
buttocks to determine their degree of
malnourishment. There was not a
sound and everyone remained
frozen, as motionless as statues.

“‘OK, boy,” he said to (25-year-old
Berhan) Nuguissie’s youngest son,
“‘you get a feeding ticket.’’ He moved
on down the line. ‘‘Sorry, boy, not for
you.”’ The youngster’s mother, sit-
ting on the ground, turned her face
upward toward the doctor’s and
reached out to tug at his trousers as
though to say, ‘Wait! You’ve made a
mistake.”’

Jordons bent down to an old, old
man and stroked his head affec-
tionately. ‘‘Ah, buba,”’ he said, ‘‘you
know I can’t. We’ve got too many
children to help first. Sorry, I am so
sorry.”’ The old man understood. He
struggled to his feet and moved away
ae accepting his fate without a
wi :

Across the dirt courtyard, near the
caldron, was a cluster of bamboo and
tin sheds. They were stuffy and full of
soft whimpers, and walking into

them from the bright sunshine out-
side, one’s eyes needed time to adjust
to the dim light and the sight of
several dozen skeleton-like children,
guarded by their mothers.

“I don’t even count calories when
we're doing super-intensive feed-
ing,”’ Jordons said. ‘I just want to
get food into them any way we can,
by spoon, nasal tube, mother’s milk.

“The children in here don’t have
any resistance left to fight off
sickness, and we’ve got pneumonia,
cholera, dysentary. We've just
discovered two cases of meningitis.
I've got two kids dying right over
there and there is not a thing I can
do.”’

For these children, hunger and the
desire for food have passed. Their
bodies have converted first the fat
and then the muscles into energy.
The enzymes — the chemicals that
make the digestive system work —
have disappeared. And when there is
nothing left to transform into energy,
the child becomes listless, dull-eyed
and, reduced in appearance to
something that does not look human,
finally starving to déatti quietly and
painlessly. :

Aread Kadre, a nomad from
Mehoni village, 35 miles away, un-
derstood what was happening to her
children without understanding the
process itself. She lay in a corner of
the shed, two emaciated 4-month-old
twins at her side, and put her head in
the cradle of her arm. Her body
shook with tears...

The first of Aread Kadre’s twin
boys, Mustafa, died at 3 o’clock ona
Thursday and was buried in the long
shadows of the afternoon. A final
dose of penicillin had failed to save
him and doctors listed the cause of
death as meningitis complicated by
malnourishment. At 4 months old, he
weighed two pounds.

The nomad woman hovered over
the torn sheet that covered the child
and cried loudly outside the shed. A
group of older boys playing nearby
seemed not to notice. ‘‘It happens all
the time,”’ explained 14-year-old Zen-
abu Godfaye as the burial detail --two

old men paid extra food rations, not
money -- arrived and lifted the wast-
ed body ona stretcher.

They carried it through the com-
pound, down a path that bends
around a clump of acacia trees and
into a rocky field just below the hill-
top church. There are in that field
hundreds of earthen mounds, each
covered with a few stones, that bear
witness to the human devestation of
the famine.

The earth is very hard and full of
roots, and it took the men about 30

minutes of strenuous effort to chisel
out another grave with a crowbar. ,
Mustafa Kadre, a Muslim, was plac-
edinit.... ’
Mustafa Kadre’s mother did not .
come to the burial. She returned to
the shed to hold her surviving twin '
for a while. :
Then, when darkness settled in, she
left the compound alone and walked «
blindly off toward the mountains, .
where one of the wailing voices that
would come up with the next day’s °
dawn would almost certainly be hers. ,

Law student praised

To the Editors:

I read with delight a recent article
in the Washington and Lee Alumni
Magazine concerning the record suc-
cess of the 1984 undergraduate varsi-
ty cross-country team. The article
states that Coach Dick Miller receiv-
ed the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Coach of the Year Award.
My congratulations to Coach Miller

~ and his troops.

The article fails to point out a very
able and dedicated law student (and
former one-half mile indoor cham-
pion at the University of Virginia)
was the assistant coach of this year’s
team — Steve Jefferson. On behalf of

BILL CLARK IS GONE,,, ED MEESE IS GONE, ANPADOW MIKE EMER, |
IWHATS GOING ON AROUND HERE, NANCY 7, NANCY? |.

 

 

  

those of us who coached afternoons
and weekends and encouraged the
undergraduates while we were law
students at Washington and Lee, I
congratulate Steve for a job well
done. Steve’s demonstrated leader- -
ship and the Athletic Department’s
willingness to participate in the law |
graduate assistant coach program is +
a great example of on-going scho-
lastic and athletic cooperation be-
tween the Law School and the under-
graduate school. Keep up the good |
work.
Paul Hampton Thomson '
77U, 83L ,
Winchester

 

Will the flame of vengeance consume our country?

 

stained subway feign ferocity or ‘‘act
invisible’ — seeing nothing and be-
ing noticed by nobody.

I am among the liberals who have
been mugged, my watch ripped from
my wrist and a brick hurled at my
skull (the first in Stamford, Conn.,
and the second in Lexington). Two
other Washington and Lee students
and I returned to a car parked in
Chinatown at midday last Thanksgiv-
ing break to find the doors locked,
bags ransacked, a bonsai tree maim-

|MY
VIEW

By Al
Roberts

 

 

 

 

 

To gaze into a flame is to know

creative beauty and destructive
genius.  _

From such gazings have sprung
the flawless notes of the laser disc,
the threat of armageddon and ways
to break the ABM treaty. Even the
Bill of Rights, wrought in a time of
flame, took some flickers from the
rhythm of pefiodic gazings as its
authors suspended their quills, un-
sure how to explain the rights of man
away to future generations.

We now live under Reagan in 1985,
and we are uncertain how our rights
are protected, indeed unsure which
are rights anid which privileges. The
old-fashioned ideas of right-and-
wrong, guilt-and-innocence, have
been diffused through the rules of
evidence and the several states. In
New York City, a man is rich with
legal aid he will not accept and moral
support he has not earned because he
learned to use‘a firearm ona subway.
He was mugged four years earlier
and chos@"to beteme an animal in a
jungle. He will be tried by his peers,
weare told.

Bernhard Hugo Goetz took up a gun
while s0 many equally vulnerable
passengers on the urine-and graffiti-

> sc AOR ¥ era een 9 7

ed, two car speakers stolen, a crusty
Band-Aid and a hispanic newspaper.
We had been away from the car for
less than two hours.

These three incidents were minor
and go unsolved and unreported. Of
the three men who attacked Goetz
several years ago, one did four
months jail time under a plea
bargain. Goetz was not granted a gun
permit, and will face an_ illegal
possession charge in addition to at-
tempted murder in the shooting of
four youths last month. Three of the
four would-be muggers on the same
line where Goetz was mugged before
carried sharpened screwdrivers,
Two were shot as they turned their
backs to flee the gunman. One lies
paralyzed from the waist down. That
Goetz fled to New Hampshire before
turning himself in speaks of remorse
more than heroism.

As New York City Police Commis-
sioner Benjamin Ward noted Friday,
“I cannot imagine any circum-
stances under which a person would
pull out a gun on a typical New York
City subway and fire five rounds. I
could not glorify that person and

make him into a vigilante.

“T have a little different definition
of a vigilante,’’ the commissioner ex-
plained. ‘‘I think those fellows wear-
ing those pointy white hats and white
sheets call themselves vigilantes,
too.”

..and the Iranian students, John
Hinckley, the terrorists bombing
NATO homes, schools and installa-
tions in West Germany...those bomb-
ing abortion clinics in this country.

All these might be seen in mirrors
as rebels against failings of our
criminal justice system. The fed-up
citizen taking the law and molten
lead into his trembling hand is idoliz-
ed across our society in books, plays,
movies, news accounts, radio broad-

casts.

We recall the ‘‘Death Wish” scene
of Charles Bronson assuming the role
Goetz chose. We think of ‘Taxi
Driver’’ and Clint Eastwood’s box of-
fice winners in the “Dirty Harry”’
series. The latest installment of
revenge glorified, ‘‘Sudden Impact,”
is doing nicely. Chuck Norris bulges
from the poster on Main Street for
“Missing in Action,” boldly toting a
piece of small artillery under the
phrase, ‘‘The war’s not over until the
last man comes home...Vietnam

1984."
But when we laud vengeance, are

we not itching wounds we might seek
to heal and salve?

There is hope for still more of the
victim agencies such as Mothers
Against Drunk Driving, Parents of
Murdered Children, Victims for Vic-
tims and the National Association for
Crime Victims’ Rights. These groups
muuvale funds and famiues to

te oa

legislate stiffer penalties under the
legal system and to help victims
spiritually and materially. Hope
darkens under the lengthening
shadow of the National Rifle Associa-
tion.

The Supreme Court, presumed
destined to fill up to three seats with
conservative minds in the balance of
the Reagan term, ruled three times
for broader police arrest, search and
seizure powers in their last session.
Some law-gazers see a swing in ad-
judicatior back from the rights of the
accusea {9 the rights of the officer
and the victim.

It aches and tears at our flesh,
meanwhile, to be optimistic when an
untarnished ideal, a human flame, is
suffocated as quickly as a spark in
the night. We first seek to rekindle
the fire and then to break the hand
that doused its progress. The first is
easy, but the second has proved ex-
cruciating.

But it is a far better pain than G.
Gordon Liddy’s if we can stay our
hands above vengeance. Fury trans-
formed to healing is invincible; fury
unleashed reprehensible.

We can establish scholarships,
name’ athletic awards, and care for
the Fellin and Fiji families. We can
vote for these values, for mental
health and criminal institutions that
don’t infect wounds of the past but
cleanse and bandage.

This path is rough and less travel-
led and extends beyond our lifetimes,
as we burn for the balance vengeance
seems to bring. But retribution
spawns only vengeance upon venge-
ance upon death upon decay. We can

LS 8 TEE 6 AR ROL So Set Ta Ne et

see this in Lebanon, or Central
America, or Ireland.

Society decays fastest when the
law is meted out by the individual
— remember the ‘“‘Road Warrior”’
— and we return to the dirt and blood
of the wasteland.

Remember that Goetz and others
accused were victims first.

Most painful and most noble is to
visualize even the most vicious felon
we would destroy staring blankly
back at our rage, grinning insanely
nerhaps and saving. ‘Go ahead,

punk, make my day.” Most of us, +
when cornered, can fight like dogs to
defend our lives. Until then, we’
should grasp the torch we take as a «
symbol of liberty and restore above
the rabid New York City, take it and’
pass it on like so many athletes last .
summer. This is the creative beauty
of fire. E

Or we can throw down the torch.
— the Sixth Amendment — and
watch its destructive genius spread ©
about our enemies, licking at our.
feet.

Che KRing-tum Phi
Chief Editors Business Manager

Bruce Potter William Schoeffler
Mike Allen

NOwe WO bo.scvicicia denn ee iach cheeeess roses bsebeceee seis cck. Paul Foutch
I a a UNA Sih iced dgearedendccesets Reade Williams
AES lesbo cccieel isin Mike Stachura
IE SE OT Nelson Patterson
PO bn eerie et ceedeecguneseerereeeenerseess Cotton Puryear
aaah Behe sc is heel iyai Cee thecaneceescs ces Peter Crane
EU lied lere ii eesseecceacel Alex Bryant
er ER PU cede tceriterediar Chris Bowring, Jeff Hubbard

Chris Gareis
ADVETUGINGOUIEMER, oc iirc ccc cereecererteneeneteneecscvenee David Dunn

Eric Hancock, Jeff Kimbell,
Rob Tolleson, Brad Watkins

The Ring+um Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ringtum Phi office, room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity

 

 

 

RE eee tk a Ang

es ee
The Ring-tum Phi, January 10, 1985, Page 3

 

Trial

Continued from Page 1
secttion, said he could not identify
anyone as being at the fire. Mesner’s
picture was among those he was
shown.

“What I wonder, and will always
wonder,” Mundy said, ‘‘is just how
many witnesses there are out there
who were shown these photographs
and couldn’t identify the defendant.”

Honts said he was concerned not
only with the failure of Com-
monwealth’s Attorney Beverly C.

 

“John” Read to turn over Nowlin’s
and others’ names to the defendant
but also with the ‘‘tainted’”’ procedure
through which Mesner was identified
by several witnesses from photo-
graphic lineups.

Two witnesses had testified earlier
in the trial that they saw Mesner at
the fire.

Gerald Simpson, a special agent of
the Virginia State Police, had
testified under cross-examination
that he showed several witnesses on-
ly pictures of Mesner, rather than a
picture of Mesner among pictures of
other people, in an effort to deter-

mine if they could identify Mesner as
being at the fire scene.

“I am concerned about the tainting
of identification,’’ Honts said in
dismissing the case.

The presence of witnesses whose
names were not revealed to the
defendant, Honts told reporters,
“coupled with direct evidence that,
in fact, two (witnesses’ identifica-
tions) were tainted and others may
have been,”’ resulted in his decision
that Mesner’s due process may have
been violated.

Mesner, who had been in the
Rockbridge County Jail since his

Sept. 4 indictment on the charges,
said he plans to enroll at Virginia
Western Community College.

Jean Dunbar, an assistant pro-
fessor of English at W&L, and her
husband, Peter Sils, originally iden-
tified Mesner in a_ photographic
lineup that consisted of two photos of
Mesner and a composite drawing of
another person, they said.

Dunbar, however, could not iden-
tify Mesner in a police lineup two
days before the trial. Although Sils
could, he told Read that after seeing
Mesner moving around in the court-

room during the trial he could not

 

Chronology

© Continued from Page 1
graduated in May, and five other students on campus during spring vaca-
tion, are drinking at The Palms.

Midnight — The six return to the Fiji house with a case of beer, which they
leave outside to keep cool. Using pieces of old furniture from the basement,
they build a fire in the fireplace of the poolroom and are playing pool

April 11, 12:30 a.m. — Fellin, a baseball player, returns to the Fiji house
from an away baseball game. The others ask if he would like to join them,
but he goes to bed instead.

1:30 a.m, — Smoke from the fire in the poolroom causes the fire alarm in
the hallway outside the poolroom to go off. Jim Forte, a law student living in
the adjacent cottage, comes over to see what is happening. White described
Forte, who had been trying to study, as angry. White tells the other five to
leave, and after a brief discussion with Forte, says he ‘‘would take care of
the fire.”’

2 a.m. — Forte goes back to his cottage.

2:25 or 2:30 a.m. — After using 20 to 30 pitchers of water and a fire ex-

_ tinguisher to put out the fire and stirring the ashes with a pool cue, White
leaves the Fiji house.

2:39 a.m. — In separate cars, Lexington Police officers Richard Rice and

_ E. Funkhouser drive by the Fiji house, but neither reported seeing anything
unusual.

2:56 a.m. — The two again drive by the house, and again, they reported
seeing nothing.

3:30 a.m. — Forte sees a flash in his window, but doesn’t get up.

4:46 a.m. — The Phi Gamma Delta fire is reported by a student living at

_ the Sigma Phi Epsilon house next door to the Fiji house.
Rice arrives on the scene to find ‘‘the east side of the building was totally
’ in flames. The flames were far beyond the roof.”

4:48 a.m, — Funkhouser arrives at the house. He attempts to enter the

house through the pantry door, the front door and the side door but is re-
* pulsed by smoke and flames each time.

About 5 a.m. — The first firefighters arrive on the scene.

Shortly after 5 a.m. — Two firefighters, David Stevens Jr. and Trent
Roberts, enter the house from the side door to conduct a search and rescue.
Stevens finds Fellin on a staircase about six feet from the door. Fellin’s head
is on the second step with his feet pointing up the stairs. Stevens drags Fellin

into the yard.
5:30 - 6 a.m. — Marian Blain, awakened by the fire trucks, walks toward
the Fiji house. On her way, she stops to ask a young man with a bicycle if
* anyone was in the house. Returning home a few minutes later, she passes the
_ young man again and this time gets a full view of his face, which she said had

“an agonized and haggard look.’’ In court, she identified this person as
’ Mesner.

7 or 7:15 a.m, — Mesner’s stepmother checks on him in bed at his home on
the Hollins College campus, according to his lawyer’s opening statement.

About 8 a.m. — While taking a break on the back of a rescue squad truck,
Stevens sees an individual at the corner of Preston and Lee streets whom he
identified as Mesner.

During the day — White, who has been told about the fire by Dean of

. Students Lewis G. John, goes with Fiji advisor Richard Sessoms to R.E. Lee
Episcopal Church, where he sees the Rev. Peter Bunder. ‘‘I told him that I
' felt responsible for Tom’s death and for the fire that burned the fraternity

Aan”? White testified

 

“€

Se

4:46:44

*

44

oVee

44404:

BE

$44:

¥:4:

About 3 p.m. — The last fire units leave the Fiji house. Bill Weems, direc-
tor of utilities processing for the city, estimated that 190,000 gallons of water
were used to fight the fire, the most he’d seen in 714 years in Lexington.

Later in the day — Lexington Fire Chief Keith Irvine’s report on the fire is
filed. It reads, ‘‘The fire was coming through the roof upon arrival. The
southeast half of the house was fully engulfed.”

8:30 or 9 p.m. — Mesner goes to Ayers and Smith’s room in Tinker Dor-
mitory at Hollins, Ayers is out of the room, but Mesner has the following con-
versation with Smith, who is packing to go to Fellin’s funeral in Penn-
sylvania:

Mesner: ‘‘Was there a fire last night at Washington and Lee?”’

Smith: “Yes.”’

Mesner: ‘‘Was it at Phi Gamma Delta?”’

Smith: “Yes. Tom was in the house.”’

Mesner: “I have alibis. What I said a few weeks ago, I was only joking.”

April 12 — In a statement to Lexington police, Ayers details Mesner’s com-
ment that “‘if the Fiji house burns, you'll know who did it.”

April 13 — Special Agent Gerald Simpson of the. Virginia State Police
begins his investigation of the fire. Simpson testified that the fire was arson.

April 16 — Jerry Byers, a private investigator hired by an insurance firm,
begins his investigation of the fire. Byers also testified that the fire was caus-
ed by arson.

May 14 — Following a meeting among Simpson, Sutton, Irvine, Straub and
Byers, a press conference is held to announce that investigators believe the
fire was caused by arson.

July — In a meeting at the fire station of about 25 firefighters, only one,
Stevens, can identify Mesner from a photographic lineup as a person he saw
at the fire.

Sept. 4 — Scot Mesner is indicted on charges of arson and murder in con-
nection with the fire. He is arrested and held in Rockbridge County Jail
under $150,000 bond.

Sept. 19 — Rockbridge County Circuit Judge George E. Honts III denies a
request to reduce Mesner’s bail.

Dec. 3 — During a chess game, Frank Lane, a cellmate of Mesner in jail
awaiting trial on charges of burglary and grand larceny, and Mesner talk
about why they are in jail. Mesner tells Lane he intended to burn down the
Fiji house and had no remorse for having done it, according to Lane. During
cross-examination, Lane, 21, acknowledged that he had two previous convic-
tions.

Dec. 19 — Mesner pleads not guilty to the charges of arson and murder and
his trial begins with selection of a jury.

Dec. 21 — Following three days of testimony in Mesner’s trial, Honts
dismisses the case because Mesner’s due process may have been violated.

LEP ERP IE LE MONG EERE BEE RE LE AE ELIE

The New Opticians

Eye Care Center
Glasses - Contacts - Repairs

Ray-Bans 10% Off With Ad

 

LIME SIMD PEELE LPB. EAE SW

203 N. Main St. .

a

‘

463-7440
BL 2t3N. Male St... apurioeanmeiin ecole

identify Mesner as having been at the
fire.

Dunbar telephoned Mundy the
night before the final day of the trial
to tell him that she could not identify
Mesner.

Dunbar, who gave a precise
description of the person she saw at
the fire and originally thought was
Mesner, said Read had referred to
her and Sils as ‘‘star witnesses.”
After reviewing a Calyx and seeing
Mesner in the courtroom, however,
she and her husband independently
had concluded that the person they’d
seen at the fire could be any one of a
number of W&L students.

“T really felt that I had no idea
whether Mr. Mesner did or did not set
the fire,’’ she testified. ‘‘But my feel-
ing was that unless I did something to
indicate that I could not identify him,
no matter which way the trial went, it
would not be an accurate trial.’’

Read used much of his 2% days of
testimony attempting to show that
the fire was arson. Both Simpson and
Jerry Byers, a private arson in-
vestigator hired by an insurance
company, testified that their in-
vestigations showed the fire was
caused by arson.

The two said they based their con-
clusions on the fact that the fire ap-

The Scot Mesner trial once
again focused attention on Bever-
ly C. “John” Read, the Com-
monwealth’s Attorney for Lex-
ington and Rockbridge County
who seems to attract controversy
like a magnet.

Defense attorneys in the case
charged him with ‘‘prosecutorial
misconduct,’’ noting that he had
flouted an order by the judge to
release the names of any people
who failed to identify Mesner in
photographic lineups.

In dismissing the case, Circuit
Judge George E. Honts III said he
was concerned that Mesner’s
right to due process may have
been violated, but emphasized
that Read was not solely responsi-
ble for the improprieties.

“T don’t lie this at anyhbody’s

 

armen
Read not solely responsible

peared to have started in several dif-
ferent places and that some burn
marks were consistent with those
where a flammable liquid may have
been poured.

However, of the more than 20
samples of debris submitted to state
laboratories, only one was shown to
contain gasoline.

Mesner’s attorneys maintained
that the fire was caused by a fire
started by several W&L students in
the fireplace of the fraternity house’s
poolroom.

“It was an accident, pure and sim-
ple, a negligent accident caused by
that bonfire they built in that
poolroom in a 91-year-old tinderbox
house,” Sisler said in his opening
statement.

After investigators heard of
Mesner’s statement to his ex-girl-
friend that ‘‘if the Fiji house ever
burns, you’ll know who did it,”’ they
began ‘‘a wild scramble to try to put
a square peg in a round hole,” Sisler
added.

The seven-man, five-woman jury,
which never deliberated the case,
was selected after four hours of ques-
tioning by Honts and attorneys about
what they had read or heard about
the case in the media or from ac-
quaintances.

feet because I think it’s a culmina-
tion of a whole lot of things,”
Honts told reporters. ‘I think it
would be erroneous to lay it at the
prosecutor’s feet.’’

Read said after the trial that
‘no one intended to do anything
wrong.”

Honts said this was the only
criminal case he has dismissed
during his 18 months as a trial
judge, and defense attorney G.
Marshall Mundy said this was the
first time he has raised the issue
of prosecutorial misconduct in 22
years as a criminal lawyer.

“I’m sitting up here as a
referee, in a sense, and everybody
plays by the rules,’’ Honts said.
“If someone doesn’t, then a foul’s

 

occurred.”’

 

 

  

LHAHAHAAAAAH AAA HHA ADAH HAHAHA AVEDA TAHA AA AED HAHAHA AHHH

and

with Special Guest

George Thorogood

The Destroyers

Skip Castro

 

44:

ve

8:30 p.m.

Saturday, January 19, 1985

Student Activities Pavillion

 

GRAMS:

eVoeVoe Vee VoeVoeVoeVeotoev eevee o

+

+4:

0:44:

4:4:

¥

beginning January 15.
Proper I.D. Required

Tickets: $6.50 available at W&L Bookstore

Sponsored by W&L Student Activities Board

..Coming January 25, 1985 The Ramones...

RECORDS

AAAS:

+:

peepee gee pce pce aceoace

+

AAAS:

CARERS:

o>. SODee Dee pee Ase Ase Ase Ase Ase

+

OW ue we
coVeeVoeve

+

AAAS:

&

OS ES EE LD LO LO ££ LO LO LOO LO LO

nee
oy

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 10, 1985

Wreck kills

man today

near Keydet General

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Chief Editor

 

A young Rockbridge County man
was killed early this morning when
his car ran off U.S. 60 west of town,
crashed into the side of a house and
burst into flames.

State police had not released the
victim’s name by late this morning.

Charles L. Cox, 24, a teacher at
Natural Bridge High School, was
asleep in the house, across the high-
way from the Keydet General Motel.

He escaped unharmed from his base-

ment bedroom.

The accident occurred at about
1:30 a.m. and firefighters were on the
scene until after 4:00 a.m. More than
a dozen emergency vehicles lined
U.S. 60. The “‘jaws of life’ became
the ‘‘jaws of death”’ as rescuers used
that gasoline-powered tool to remove
the body from the mangled, smolder-
ing car.

The green Pontiac appeared to
have skidded more than 150 feet after
running off the road just past the
Shell gasoline station. The steep em-
bankment is covered with grass and
leaves.

First-year Washington and Lee law
student R. Mark Thornhill, who was
returning to his Rockbridge County
home after spending the evening at
the Cockpit, said the car passed him
just prior to the accident.

‘T was doing 60 and he passed me
like I wasn’t even moving,”’ Thornhill
said as he watched firefighters douse
the blaze. “I saw his lights disap-
pear. When he passed me, I knew he
was going to wreck. I knew he’d go
off the road, he was going so fast.”

Thornhill said the car did not ex-
plode immediately. He walked up to
the car just before the underside of
the car ignited. He said the victim ap-
peared to be dead before the fire
started.

Lexington Assistant Fire Chief
Bryan Causey said a broken natural
gas line fueled the fire. ‘‘The top of
the gas meter was ruptured by the
impact of the car,’’ he said. “A spark
from the car or anything could have
ignited it.”’

Causey said 25 Lexington and 15-20
Kerrs Creek firefighters battled the
blaze. In addition, numerous rescue
squad workers were on the scene. All
are volunteers.

Cox said that because he sleeps on
a waterbed, he was not awakened by
the impact of the car striking the
house. He said he heard some noise
and was just starting to doze off
again when Thornhill began pound-
ing on the front door.

When the car began burning, the
front corner of the house where the
vehicle had lodged became engulfed
in flame, destroying the walls and
heavily damaging the kitchen.

Cox said the owner of the house,
Marshall Irvine, is in Colorado on a
Christmas visit to one of his children.

As he watched the rescue opera-
tion, Cox noted that he is a driver
education teacher. ‘Kind of ironic,
huh?”’ he said. ‘‘I always have been
able to”’ tell students what not to do,
“‘but now I guess I have a little more
basis, don’tI?”’

He said he planned to teach this
morning. ‘‘I'd rather be busy. I don’t
think I'll sleep tonight.”’

“It didn’t have to happen,”’ Thorn-
hill said.

Col. Head plans retirement
after 19 years as registrar

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

After 19° years as University
registrar, Col. Harold S. Head has
announced that he will step down
from the position, effective Aug. 31.

Head said he was retiring because
he had ‘“‘always planned to retire
when I turned 65.”

A small search committee, under
the direction of Dean of the College
John W. Elrod, will be set up to take
applications for the position.

“Col. Head has ably and devotedly
served Washington and Lee for 19
years,’ Elrod said. ‘‘His gentleman-
ly manner in the daily performance
of his duties will be greatly missed.’’

Head is a graduate of the United
States Military Academy and served
in both World War II and Korea. In
addition, he graduated from the In-

 

 

 

 

 

 

it E
DR EDUCATIONA
PREPARATION CO
For: Lexington
A 3/2 EXAM: Classes
begin 1/22
a 6/15 EXAM: Classes
begin 3/19
4 Classes now forming
A Classes now forming
» Classes now forming

For a tree brochure call Toll Free:
800-222-TEST

The National Center tor Educational Testing
3414 Peachtree Rd. NE Suite 526
Atlanta, GA 30326

fantry School at Ft. Benning, Ga.,
and the Command and General Staff
College at Ft. Leavenworth, Kan.

Head holds a master’s degree in
history from Harvard University and
is a graduate of the Army Language
School, where his studies in Japanese
prepared him for duty as staff officer
to the Military Assistance Advisory
Group in Japan from 1959 to 1967.

Before taking his post at W&L, he
joined the military staff at VMI in
1962. He also is a past president of the
Virginia Association of Collegiate
Registrars and Admissions.

Head said he has seen a great
many changes during his 19-year
tenure at the University. For in-
stance, when he first began working
for W&L, the University was on a
three-point grading scale in which an
F resulted in ‘‘minus points.” In ad-
dition, the registrar’s office was in
charge of class attendance. Dean’s
List students were awarded cutting
privileges at holidays, while the rest
of the student body had to contend
with subtracted points for numerous
absences.

Head said the responsibilities of
the registrar’s office are so
numerous that it is easiest just to
say: “Once a student is accepted to
the University and has paid his
enrollment, he is passed over to us
and he is our responsibility. If you
have a question and don’t know who
to ask, then come here.”’

Scheduled to retire just days before
the coeds arrive to bring a new era to
W&L, Head has mixed feelings about
the coeducation decision, which he
said was inevitable.

“I’ve always felt that there was a
need for a top-rate all men’s school
for those who want to go that route,
and I’m sorry to see that end. How-
ever, I think the GPA will go up with
the women here.”’

ee ee

Over 200 men’s suits

Selection of men’s suits

& sport coats...............

All sweaters - plaid pants -

Too much warm weather has left us

Overstocked!

SS eee 2 0 % off-unbelievable selection

flannel shirts.............cc0c.cccccecsseeee 20%
Cashmere & wool topcoats -
Woolrich outerwear ........................ 2 0 % off

Men’s Bargain Table — A Real Assortment!

 

| Sees OOD LXABOO OOD LDS DLP LPP DP LODO LOO LPO LP DLP LP AP AP OV LP AP LPP APO LPO LDL

DP APVLD AP AP VLE LP OLE LD LP LP

College “Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

Ow Misfortune is Your Gain

QAP DDG?

DP? LL LPL

DOLL
eo

DP APV PAP a

 

 

7% must BE
PETURNE D

a
ee

Os

 

BEFORE FEB 1”

The University Bookstore was one of the more crowded places on campus
this week as students purchased books for winter term classes.

  
  
   
 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Early Decision
acceptances
hit new high

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee has accepted
110 students — including 39 women
— for admission next fall, the largest
number of early decision accep-
tances in the school’s history, accord-
ing to Admissions Counselor Bennett
Ross.

The early decision applications in-
cluded 56 from women and 154 from
men, compared with 90 applications
(all men) last year, Ross said. Of
those 90 applications, 54 students
were accepted.

“This is an excellent first group
and is only a sign of better things to
come,’’ Ross said. He pointed out
some “impressive’’ increases in
statistics from this year’s early deci-
sion group, as compared with last
year’s:

eLast year, 47 percent of the early
decision clase graduated in the top
fifth of their high school class ; 59 per-

cent of this year’s class graduated in
the top fifth.

eLast year’s median SAT scores
were 548 verbal and 583 math. This
year’s class has median SAT scores
of 564 verbal and 593 math, a total in-
crease of 26 points.

eLast year’s median English
Achievement score was 510 and this
year’s median score was 550.

eThis year’s class includes nine
student body presidents, five student
body vice presidents, eight class of-
ficers, 18 athletic team captains, nine
editors of school publications and 41
National Honor Society members.

Ross pointed out that these median
statistics for the early decision class
are usually lower than the median
statistics for the class as a whole.

Ross added that the University has
received 1,109 applications, com-
pared with 705 received by this time
last year. He also said that competi-
tion will be tough to fill the remaining
280 to 300 spots with almost 28 per-
cent of the class already chosen.

Hearing delayed on rezoning for dorm

 

By ANDY HOPPES
Staff Reporter

 

The public hearing on a request by
Washington and Lee for zoning
changes that would allow construc-
tion of a new dormitory has been
postponed until Jan. 24.

The hearing was moved from Dec.
20 to comply with a state law requir-
ing the city to advertise the public
meeting in local newspapers for
three consecutive weeks, according
to Lexington Planning Commission

Chairman Henry L. Ravenhorst.

The school has asked that the area
bounded by Nelson, Lee and
Washington streets be rezoned from
its general residential classification.
The proposed dormitory would house
240 students and would be completed
by September 1987.

Ravenhorst said the commission
also wanted time to discuss the
various ways the area could be rezon-
ed to allow W&L to build the dor-
mitory.

The commission determined that

Ex-President Huntley
convocation speaker

Robert E.R. Huntley, president of
the Richmond-based Best Products
Co. Inc. and former president of
Washington and Lee, will be the
featured speaker of W&L’s 114th an-
nual Founders’ Day Convocation on
Monday, Jan. 21.

The convocation will begin at 12:30
p.m. in Lee Chapel. Huntley’s ad-
dress is titled ‘‘The Way We Were.”

Founders’ Day at W&L was first
observed in 1871 and is held annually
on or near the Jan. 19 birthdate of
Gen. Robert E. Lee, who was presi-
dent of the University from 1865 until
his death in 1870.

In addition to Huntley’s address,
student leaders from all areas of the
University’s campus life will be
recognized during the convocation,
and induction ceremonies will be

held for Omicron Delta Kappa, the
national honor society recognizing
outstanding leadership.

A number of W&L students as well
as prominent alumni and friends of
the University will be inducted into
ODK, which was founded at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1914 and now has
chapters on campuses throughout the
country.

Huntley served as president of
Washington and Lee from 1968 until
1983, when he stepped down to return
to teaching in the W&L School of
Law.

In December of 1983 he was named
executive vice president of Best Pro-
ducts, the nation’s biggest catalog-
showroom retailer. In June 1984 he
was named president of the com-

pany.

one proposed option that would hav.
made the area a central business
district was inappropriate because it
would not allow the University suf-
ficient ‘freedom of design,’’ Raven-
horst explained.

Lexington Building and Zoning Ad-
ministrator Donald J. Mette said the
commission could allow W&L to con-
struct the dormitory by either rezon-
ing the area to allow multi-family
housing or by inventing a new type of
zoning district.

Mette explained that this new zone
would be an “‘institutional’’ zone that
would give the University a ‘“‘bit
more liberal’ guidelines for the type
of construction it could engage in on
its own land.

At the public hearing, the commis-
sion will give adjacent property
owners and other interested narties
the opportunity to speak for or
against the proposal. After the public
hearing, the commission will decide
whether to rezone the area and make
a recommendation to City Council,
which must make the final decision,
Ravenhorst noted.

“The planning commission is pure-
ly advisory. We try to make decisions
based on the welfare of the communi-
ty and the future development of the
community,’’ Ravenhorst added.

He said he is uncertain whether
W&L’s request will routinely be ap-
proved or will meet opposition from
the community.

Break-ins reported
at dorm, farmhouse

 

By JOHN WINTERS
Staff Reporter

 

Once again, students returning
from vacation had to deal with the
problem of stolen property.

Otho F. Mears IV, and James W.
Walker, both freshmen in the
Graham-Lees Dormitory, had stereo
equipment taken from their rooms
during the vacatiun.

According to official police reports,
there were no signs of forced entry
into either of the rooms. Charles
“Murph” Murray, University proc-
tor, said someone used a key to get

White Book panel nominations due

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee students in-
terested in serving on the White Book
Revisions Committee should contact
the Executive Committee within two
weeks, President Cole Dawson an-
nounced at the EC’s first formal
meeting of 1985.

Names must be submitted to the
EC by Monday, Jan. 21. The commit-
tee will be selected that week and ap-
pointed Jan. 28, Dawson explained
after the meeting. The committee
will ‘“‘go through every page of the

White Book” and make recommen-
dations to the EC.

Dawson said the EC would take
these recommendations into account
when voting on White Book changes
later this year. Revisions approved
by the EC will be posted around cam-
pus for one week and must be approv-
ed by the EC a second time before be-
ing added to the White Book.

The Revisions Committee normal-
ly meets in the spring, but Dawson
said he wanted it to meet earlier this
year. He said he feels ‘“‘it will take a
few months”’ before the committee
concludes its work and added that
while only a_ select number of

 

By Appointment 463-9588

Robins Peggy*Marie

 

on ee Sole

Old Main St. Mall

 

Lexington, VA 24450

 

zi J

Rockbridge County’s

Component Stereo Center
for your home and car
Maxell UDXLII’s 2.99 ea.

 

Featuring: JVC, Boston Acoustic,
Design Acoustic, Panasonic,
Sony, Maxell, Audio Technica

A Division of

_ Value Mart

 

——

261-2544

 

students may be appointed, any stu-
dent is free to submit possible revi-
sions.

EC Vice President James White
distributed a letter outlining the need
for properly submitted activities and
financial statements. All subcom-
mittee chairman should have receiv-
ed the letter, which also contained a
winter subcommittee report sched-
ule.

There is a mandatory meeting for
all club and organization chairmen at
6:30 p.m. inthe EC room on Monday.

Junior representative Michael
Black mentioned that a number of
students were upset about other
students discussing the difficulty of
exams during finals week. EC Sec-
retary Sam Dalton said one student
came right up to him and complained
about how hard an exam had been,
although no punitive action was
taken.

into both of the rooms. He added that
the person who got into the rooms
must have had a master custodial
key.

Neither Mears nor Walker could be
reached for comment, but the police
report placed the value of Walker’s
equipment, at more than $800. No
suspects have been found in connec-
tion with the two robberies.

In another theft involving W&L
students, a farmhouse rented by five
students was robbed.

Edward L. Mohler Jr. of Lex-
ington, the son of the students’
landlady, has been arrested in con-
nection with the break-in. Among the
items taken were two stereo re-
ceivers, two tape decks, one turn-
table, two speakers and a Sony
“Watchman,” according to Jim
Strader, one of the residents.

Mohler is being held in the
Rockbridge County Jail on a charge
of breaking and entering.

Only one part
of house left

Only the front portion of the Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity house re-
mains standing as work has begun to
rebuild the house and construction
plans are being finalized.

A side wall collapsed the week
before Christmas as a new founda-
tion was being dug. This weakened
the back portion of the house which
was then torn down.

The fraternity’s faculty adviser,
Richard B. Sessoms, said the front
portion will be left intact and the
house will be rebuilt to keep much of
its original character,

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘'For your extra pieces of furniture’’

463-2742

 

 

 

 

   

Ye

MCAT - DAT
ea
Pe
aia S|
PSAT - SAT
ACHIEVEMENTS - ACT

facilities.

WINTER
CLASSES
NOW
FORMING

PUT US TO THE TEST!

@ Permanent Centers open days,
evenings, weekends.
© Complete TEST-N-TAPE*

© Skilled instructors and
dedicated, full-time staff.

@ Homestudy materials constantly
updated by Research Experts.

© Low Hourly Cost.
@ Transter privileges to over
120 locations.

raul

ae.

TEST PREPARATION uth atin 138
In New York State Stanley H Kapian Educahonal Center Lid
aiid

Reh
MSKP . FMGEMS
eee ea
NCB - NCLEX-RN

St EH |
SPEED READING
Maa a
UE a
RSI

CALL DAYS, EVENINGS
& WEEKENDS:

(804)979-3001
1928 Arlington Bivd.,
Suite 200
Charlottesville, Va.
22901
SPORTS

 

 

oO. 17???
Who’s trying
to kid whom?

 

    

 

 

going to fool anybody with my expertise on the subject — my bowl
predictions have been declared a national disaster area by those who
do such things — but I do think I have something worthy (Read: it fills
the space) to say about that confounded notion of a subjective best
team in the nation.

Simply put, without a playoff there can be no such thing as a No. 1
team. Unfortunately, since the powers that be (AP, UPI, CNN, USA
Today, Joe’s Bar and Grill, etc., ad infinitum) get a quasi-orgasmic
thrill from telling us how much they know about what’s what, we’re
faced with the pointless arguments after the bowl games.

And this year, it’s the BYWho? controversy. It’s been so important
(overblown) this season that ABC even had a nationwide phone-in poll
to see what America thought about a team being No. 1 that bested
(outscored) such perennial powerhouses as Utah State, Utah, Wyom-
ing and non-conference toughie (sorry, Lou Holtz) Minnesota.
Granted, the Cougars can’t be faulted for a schedule made years ago,
but then again schedule must be a point of consideration when you go
telling the world what’s what in college football.

The Ring-tum Phi

January 10, 1985

Cagers fly by Eagles,

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee basket-
ball team produced its highest point
total of the season in defeating the

Bridgewater Eagles 83-59 last night

Jeff Harralson contributed 14 points
each.

Guards Wilkinson, McClatchy,
Mike Hudson and Lex Fitzenhagen
helped replace the loss of one of the
team’s leading scorers, Bill Yates,
who has left the University for
academic reasons.

But head coach Verne Canfield
said that his guards’ performances
last night were nosurprise tohim.

“I expected them to fill in (for
Yates) and then some. I am totally
confident in all six of our guards,”
said Canfield. He added, ‘‘It’s not a
surprise. It’s expected.”

Although they won by a large
margin, the Generals trailed
Bridgewater early in the game. The
Eagles jumped to an early 4-0 lead,
but Wilkinson kept the Generals close
by hitting five of his first six shots
from the field. At the 10 minute mark
in the first half, W&L trailed, 19-18.

ing but it also led to some scores for
the Generals.

With 7:04 remaining in the first
half, the Generals began to pull away
from the Eagles, when McClatchy
stole the ball and fed Hudson, who
scored on the fast break despite be-
ing fouled on the shot. Hudson com-
pleted the three-point-play and gave
the Generals a 25-19 lead. W&L con-
tinued the half-ending barrage with a
14-4 run to take a 39-23 lead into the
locker room at the intermission.

Hoping to apply more defensive
pressure on the Generals, Bridge-
water opened the second half with a

Remillard says academics

 

 

full-court press. Although the
Generals did not score their first
basket of the second half for two-and-
a-half minutes, the Eagles’ press was
ineffective at stopping the Generals
or cutting into their lead as the

wee poe

Page 5

83-59

Generals were able to up their
halftime margin to 21 points at the
11:29 mark, 55-34

The Generals’ large lead allowed
Canfield to play many players off the
bench during the second half.

Grapplers lose captain;

 

 

Head coach Gary Franke has his
wrestling team busily preparing for
its quadrangular meet at Hampden-
Sydney this Saturday, but the Gene-
rals will be heading to Farmville
minus the services of captain Jeff
Dixon.

Franke -aid that Dixon, who is un-
defeated so far this season, under-
went arthroscvvic surgery on Jan. 2
after injuring hi. knee in early Dec-
ember. He is expected to be out of ac-
tion for two to three weeks.

The Generals (2-0 11 dual meets
and a third-place finish in the W&L
Invitational) will face Loyola and
Johns Hopkins in addition to the Ti-
gers at the Hampden-Sydney event.
One of W&L’s early season victories
came against H-SC (a 38-15 affair)
and the Generals also placed higher

‘ ; j A Bridgewater scored only four
....The question — and it seems we oe ee : [
cee ry high 63 percent points during the last 10 minutes of | M4 S C m d

TIME a ees = aun ‘first hie and 81 percent from the free throw the half. trave to = at U r ay

" after our well-deserved rest con- line en route to the victory. The win “‘We changed to a zone defense :
~~ CH Becca it aciahs teelieedion evened the Generals’ overall record from the man-to-man,” Canfield said - year W&L defeated Hopkins by a
SS —— cerns . i, jedieen to at 5-5 and their conference record at concerning the Generals’ domination ByWILLIAMKING 26-20count. — =
ee By Mike ae oe Se a oie 1-1, of the last part of the half. Canfield Staff Reporter Franke said that he expects H-SC
: Stachura s chain rongetonerte of college David Wilkinson led the Generals _ said that the defensive change not on- tobeanimprovedteam Saturday. —

; roatball's No 1 team. Now, I’m not with 16 points. Kevin McClatchy and ly prevented Bridgewater from scor- I think they will bea little better,

Franke said. ‘‘They usually pick upa
couple of football players on their
team after the season.”

Over the Christmas break, Franke
took five of his wrestlers to the Univ-
ersity of Maryland Open Tournament
on Jan. 4-5, with sophomore Tim
Walker being the most successful,
winning two matches before being
defeated. Walker defeated opponents
from Maryland and Montclair State
before falling to a wrestler from
U.Va.

The Generals’ starting lineup for
Saturday's meet will be Steve Castle
(118 Ibs.), Brian Lifsted (126 Ibs.),
Jeff Mazza (134 lbs.), Larry Anker
(142 Ibs.), Kevin McNamara (150
Ibs.), Greg Russell (158 Ibs.), Win
Phillips (167 lbs.), Joe O’Neill (177
lbs.), Greg Kendrick (190 Ibs.) and

 

 

 

s s

And now to the concluding points of this rot: BYU is a nice team. aS impo rta nt as ath letics than Loyola in the Invitational. Last Mark Weaver (Hwt.).
They have a sound coach in Lavelle Edwards, pretty uniforms, and a Coach Remillard expressed a little
Marino-esque quarterback in Robbie Bosco. That’s it. Nobody who ;
struggles to beat Michigan (6-5) can claim with a straight face that By STEVE GREENEBAUM on with the Towson State team, Mobile Homes For Rent

; ‘ Staff Reporter because it is ‘‘much-improved.
they’re better than every team in the country. *
“‘We have to take each dual meet Near Lexington

BYU’s not No. 1, and I’m not so sure any team is overwhelmingly one week at a time and this week it is
better than everyone — the requirement for any real or mythical No. This Saturday the Washington and Towson State,’’ Remillard said, ‘‘and Call Between 10 AM and 6 PM
1, Washington's as close as anyone, but close doesn’t cut it here, and Lee swimming team will travel to wecan’t take them lightly.” (703) 943-9267
until those that spend countless hours getting phone calls coercing Towson State for its first dual meet This week’s meet will give the

them to vote East Podunk State as No. 1 put their heads together and
come up with a playoff system — not too tough a task, just use the
three-and-a-half week bow] period for a workable playoff season (see
Sports Illustrated, Dec. 24-31) — we’ll continue to be lost in the weekly
nonsense that is the polls....

* KK

cee Just some quick thoughts on the Generals hoopsters as they head
into the new year and the meat of their ODAC schedule: This team is
for the most part as fundamentally sound as any team it plays, but
losses for the most part seem to be the result of being one step short of
the finished product. As an example, in Friday’s contest in Penn-
sylvania, the Generals were able to run the offense fairly well, but
couldn’t put the ball in the hole. The loss of Bill Yates (left the Univer-
sity for academic’ reasons) may hurt the team, but certainly it is
something thatcan be overcome. It appears then that this season is
again a case of the team’s ability to reach its potential...

...[t’s January, and therefore we are allowed to talk about basket-
ball. First, in college Georgetown is good, but Al McGuire is right: the
Hoyas will lose two or three before tournament time. The same is true
of Duke. The reason: conference play is more brutal than I can ever
remember it being. Best conference in the nation: toss-up be-
tween Big East and Big 10...In the pro game, it’s going to be a shame
that the Sixers and Celts won’t be able to meet in the finals...

....Finally, here’s an update on the ongoing poor officiating disease
currently afflicting the world of sports: Three Big Eight officials have
been suspended (hear,hear) for overwhistling, calling 49 (!) fouls in
one game last month....

 

 

since the Virginia Intercollegiate
Championships, on Dec. 1-2.

Although the team has not com-
peted in more than a month, the
members have been training hard.
They returned to Washington and
Lee on Dec. 26 and began work. While
most people were sleeping late, the
swim team was weightlifting at 8
a.m., then swimming until noon,
resting and then going back to the
pool from 4 until after 6 p.m.

“It was a good training camp,”
Coach Page Remillard said. ‘Be-
cause of finals and a week at home

the team lost some of their condition-

ing from before finals, but they
Worked hard every day and regained
what was lost.”

When Coach Remillard said they
worked every day he wasn’t kidding
— the team was even in the pool on
New Year’s Day.

One addition to the team is all-
American Tabor Smith who hadn’t
swum this year because of mono-
nucleosis. Smith said he is looking
forward to swimming in two or three
events this week.

“T feel good, I missed swimming
against Hopkins,” Smith said. “My
speed is not as good as it could be but
I’m at the same point as I was last
year this time.”’

team a new way to judge itself. The
times from before Christmas vaca-
tion can’t be used for comparison
because the team has not been in a
competitive situation in more than a
month. As Coach Remillard likes to
say, “It becomes a science, this week
will give us new data to work with.”’

“The team will have to dig deep
and can’t afford to have a subpar day
in order to win,” he added.

The coach was happy to say that
the program has been a success in
more than one way this season; the
team is undefeated with a 2-0 dual-
meet record and most of all the team
is doing well in classes, too with three
swimmers on the Dean’s List and
five on the Honor Roll.

‘‘We’re not happy if our academics
are not as good as our athletics in this
program.” Remillard said.

 

8 North Main

  

“Country Kitchen’?
Home Made Bakery Goods
“Eat In Or Take Out”’

 

 

Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

Sell ads
for The Phi.

n Mon.-Fri. 10 | MADONNA |
Call 463-8581. Pg gee abc ge the AVian

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

On Sale Now A

 

phone
464-9494

 

CULTURE CLUB

WAKING UP WITH
OND ONION VON : THE HOUSE ON FIRE
: Val ley True Val ve Hardware The War Song/ Don't Tete About

 

HARD

  

 

 

 

 

Hello Goodbye/ The Medal Song
Mistake No. 3

The Shop for Hardware, Paint & Related Items
PAPPAGALLO E. Nelson St. Mon. - Sat. 8:30-6:00 2 Also available on chrome cassette.
463-2186 Sun.1-5 :
Shoes, Clothing Linde Rontact ry
ae

& Accessories

 

PAP OPO AP AP AP VLPOMPVLP APO APVAPVLPOAPVL AP

If You're Not Dining At

    
     

LUSW-LIPE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

        
 

23 NORTH MAIN STREET ' .
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA. The Old _ Sand LAUPER
463-5988
DP APVLPVLPVPV LIV PV PV APL PVD?
’ SHE’S SO
Che Shop UNUSUAL
= including:
= Money Changes
VIAN | 21 etna =
Fy To Have Fun
| G j 4) SS When You Were Mine
} i avr Time After Time
Join the - ss | | i MOLLY HATCHET All Through The Night JOHN CAFFERTY AND 4
Revolution oN THE DEED 1S DONE k THE BEAVER BROWN BAND |
\ \ including : MUSIC FROM THE ORISINAL TIOK
™ neer —" A\ ” au She Gove She Sons Backstabber 6 9 9 EDDIE -AND THE CRUISERS
my / \ \ Good Smoke And Whiskey a egy ab : |
- 40:99 oR ee eee,

‘1/2 Doz...... $9.99
| 1 Doz. ....$15.99

OPEN $ 6:99
Mon, — Zat. lp sal dea danas 7
9:30-6:30 | Ropico

We Belong/Ooh Oc t Back
Painted Desert

@:99 “P
799 cass.

Ro yi:
We

h |
(e

Less For Your
Sandwich Dollar

   

| PAUL McCARTNEY |
| GIVE MY REGARDS
TO BROAD STREET |

including |

      
 

No More Lonely Nights/ Yesterday
Here, There And Everywhere
Silly Love Songs
| The Long And Winding Road

$799

| deficroon

|
|
|
|

@

  

103.N, Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(763) 465-9841

  

 

 

 

 
fBack Pa

Cooler weather: It’s all downhil

 

 

By JON THORNTON
Staff Reporter

 

Because of an unusally warm
December throughout much of the
state, the ‘‘Big Three’”’ ski resorts in
Virginia are looking to January and
February in hopes that a profitable
ski season can be salvaged.

Richard Cote, director of promo-
tions at Massanutten Ski Resort, said
business has been “really slow’’ but
that their slopes should be open to the
mid-station by today. He added that
he hopes the entire slopes will be
open by this weekend.

Massanutten features night skiing
every day from 6:30 p.m. to 10 p.m.,
and is open for day skiing from 9 a.m.
to4:30p.m.

The slopes at Wintergreen are open
for the third time this year after a
series of shutdowns brought on by
higher temperatures.

Ski Secretary Elizabeth Patterson
said the resort is offering free lessons
to those novice skiers who rent equip-
ment from the resort, and a new
physical fitness facility — the Winter
Garden — has also been added to
make Wintergreen even more allur-
ing. The Wintergreen village has ad-
ded a new expert slope, Logger’s
Alley, and a network of triple ski lift
lines to reduce the wait for skiers.

Night skiing is offered by the resort
on five of its 11 slopes. Patterson said
three slopes — a beginner, a novice
and an expert — are expected to be
available this weekend in addition to

Thorogood to

By JOHN RILEY
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Student Activities Board has
booked George Thorogood and the
Delaware Destroyers for Saturday,
Jan. 19, beginning ‘‘a more or less
weekly”’ series of social events in the
student activities pavilion, according
to SAB Entertainment Director John
Haywood.

“One of the benefits we saw in
building the pavilion was that we
could have bigger bands than before
and offer more social events for the
student body as a whole,” Haywood
said. ‘I think we’re off to a good
start.”’

Haywood said that both the Thoro-
good show, which will be opened by
W&L party veterans, The Skip Castro
Band, and a concert the following

Oe OS SS

     
     
   
         

 

Hodge Podge

Special Orders for Champagne,
Wines, and Beer with some
special discounts.

Also Champagne, Wine,
Imported and Domestic Beer
at good prices

116 N. Main St.
Lexington, Va.
703-463-3683

the restaurants and shops within the
Wintergreen ski community.

Sepp Kober, ski area manager for
the Homestead in Hot Springs said
that ‘‘so far this year, no ski resorts
on the East Coast have done much.”’
He added that the Homestead pilan-
ned to open its slopes by last night
with the help of the recent cold fronts
that have made snow production
possible.

Kober, who has worked with the
W&L physical education department
ski classes, said the Homestead has
nonight skiing.

Located on the second highest
mountain in West Virginia, the
Snowshoe ski village has faced few
problems, especially since the latest
cold wave has resulted in the ‘‘dump-
ing of snow’’ upon the resort. Public
relations spokesman Raymond
Houck said January and February
skiing is limited to those people who
are staying at Snowshoe, but lodging
charges cover the cost of skiing.

“There is a ‘Fun Pass’ that is given
to lodgers which enables them to use
any and all of our facilities.’’ Houck
added that Snowshoe, which has 34
slopes, is a community that features
gas stations, grocery stores, a
bakery and “‘even a pizza place that
delivers.”

Houck explained that no night ski-
ing is offered at the resort because
“slope grooming”’ is performed dur-
ing that time and because tempera-
tures on the 4,848-foot mountain can
drop to dangerously low levels at
night.

rock Pavilion

Friday night with the Ramones,
should be exciting. “Both Thorogood
and The Ramones are nationally
known and both have tremendous
stage shows.”’

Tickets for the Thorogood concert
will go on sale Tuesday at the W&L
Bookstore, Haywood said. They will
cost $6.50.

Most students will find the ticket
price high, Haywood said. ‘‘$6.50 is
more than the students are used to
paying for a show on campus, but
these bands get $13 a head at the
Roanoke Civic Center,” he said.

Haywood added that at approx-
imately $10,000 for each concert, the
two bands will be playing cheap. ‘‘We
caught both bands between dates at
arenas, so we got good deals on both
of them,” he said.

Sy > Oe Os

 

 

 

@ Better hurry to your home
town Pizza Hut" restaurant!
It's not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza.{f¥ So
come on in. Bring the whole

 

  

 

I i.

ine oe aS sa
ge ee ‘ne ee me mt a we ade 9 or me ee

= e
: Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered :
5 SD or $¢> orr &
‘ weE you Hane 2 oF $
2 $0 off any large plea | x
Bo cusesPieatius Fanta PDEZZ_ —GO0E. Nelsonst.
a Hurry; offer expires soon. One Lexington, VA %
Econ Aut. 463-7000 :
restaurants

# Please present oupon when ordering Not valid in combination with any other offer 1 20 cent po 5
a cash redemption value « 1969 Pizza Hut, Inc Good only through 4 4.4 OE a
beeen

family. QP We'll pile on layers
of pure mozzarella cheese and
all your favorite toppings.
There's no better time to try
our unparalleled Pizza Hut*
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

   

 

Qe

The Ring-tum Phi

January 10, 1985

| from here

 

 

SKIGUIDE

*Massanutten Village. Lift
tickets: $17 during the week; $22
on the weekend. Rentals: $10. Day
skiing: 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Night
skiing: 6:30 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Phone: (703) 289-9441. Directions:
Interstate 81 north to U.S. 33 east
and then Route 644 to the Massa-
nutten signs. Estimated road
time: 1 hour, 15 minutes.

¢Wintergreen. Lift tickets: $17
for students with I.D. Monday
through Friday; $26 on weekends
and holidays. Rentals: $10 for
students Monday through Friday ;
$13 on weekends and holidays.
Half-day rates for students are $10
for lift ticket and $7 for rentals.
Day skiing: 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Night skiing: 7 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Half-day hours 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. or
12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday
through Friday. Phone (804)
325-2200. Directions: When weath-
er is good, take U.S. 11 north to
Route 56; go east at Steele’s
Tavern to the Blue Ridge Park-
way. Go north 10 miles to Route
664 which leads to the gatehouse.
When weath is inclement, take I-
81 north, then take the Greenville
exit (U.S. 11 South) to Route 340.
Go to Stuart’s Draft and turn right
at the stoplight on Route 608. Go
through Stuart’s Draft at the Y-in-
tersection 2-3 miles beyond, bear
left on Route 610, then take 610 to
T-intersection with Route 664. Go
right to top of the mountain. The
gatehouse is approximately one

Warm Springs

US. 220

Covington

mile on the other side of the moun-
tain. Estimated road time: 1 hour,

30 minutes.

The Homestead. Lift tickets:
$10 for students with I.D., Monday
through Thursday; $13 for Fri-
day; $20 for weekends and holi-
days. Rentals: $8 on Monday
through Thursday; $10 for Fri-
day; $12 for weekends and holi-
days. Day skiing: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Monday through Friday and 8

  
   
  
  
 
 

Route 39
%* HOMESTEAD

 
  
        
 
      
   
 
    

Harrisonburg

Staunton

1-81

US. 11

1-64

LEXINGTON

y

U.S. 60
1-81

Amherst

a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekends and
holidays. No night skiing. Phone:
(703) 839-5500. Directions: In-
terstate 64 west to Covington, then
take U.S. 220 to Hot Springs or go
through Goshen Pass (Route 39)
to U.S. 220 to reach Hot Springs.
Estimated road time: 1 hour, 15
minutes.

*Snowshoe, W.Va. Lift tickets
and rentals are included in the
cost of lodging, which starts at $65

Route 610 Route 664

WINTERGREEN

MASSANUTTEN
*

 

Charlottesville

U.S. 29

Graphic by Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

per night. This ‘Fun Pass’’ allows
the use of all Snowshoe facilities.
Day skiing: 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. No
night skiing. Phone: (304)
572-1000. Directions: Route 39
west to Marlington, W.Va. Snow-
shoe is located 26 miles north of
Marlington on U.S. 219. Estimated
road time: 2 hours, 30 minutes.

eProspective skiers should
telephone the ski resort to ensure
the slopes are open.

 

 

 
 
 
 

‘Boy Toy’

ALBUMREVIEW

By MARSHALL BOSWELL

 

 

For a long time, I was convinced
that Madonna’s most redeeming
feature was her terrific belly-button.
Goodness knows that she wouldn't
have raised an eyebrow if she hadn’t
tumbled onto the pop world with that
bare torso and ‘Boy Toy’ belt
buckle. However, through the magic
of sex-oriented promotion, Madonna
managed to raise some eyebrows.

So, as a result, I really had to
swallow my pride the first time I
heard her luscious new single, ‘Like
A Virgin.” Although it is, musically,
just a cheerful rip-off of ‘Billy Jean”
(same bass run, same one-two drum

     
     
   
  
     
    

Connections Unlimited

Deavers Alley

203 North Main St., Lexington
463-5119/463-1100

Open 7:00 a.m.-12:00 Midnight Seven Days A Week

We'll type all your papers or resumes!

Get your papers typed professionally any time you need by just call-
ing us ahead of time or stop by and wait. The choice is up to you!
Copies of anything done while you wait! !

Madonna: nice belly-button

march, same chord progression), she
finally managed to transform that
steamy video image onto record. I
was hooked.

Her new album of the same name
is every bit as good, song for song, as
the single. Produced by Nile Rogers,
who produced David Bowie’s Let’s
Dance, Hall and Oates’ Adult Educa-
tion, and Duran Duran’s Wild Boys,
Like A Virgin has replaced the cold,
synthed-up froth of her debut album
with a crisp, crack-shot record of
delicious morsels that leave a plea-

sant taste in the mouth after
repeated listenings.
The album’s lead-off track,

“Material Girl,’’ teases ‘‘Some boys
kiss me, some boys hug me/I think
they’re o.k./If they don’t give me
proper credit/I just walk away...”’

NOW OPEN

SUBWAY
SANDWICH
SHOP

Featuring
New York Style Sandwiches
Soups and Salads

Eat-In Or Take-Out

Call In Orders
Open 11 AM Till Midnight
Monday - Saturday

10 1/2 Lee Avenue

4 (Across From Chi Psi Fraternity )

 

463-5752

 
 

Although I would like to think that
this is supposed to be taken tongue-
in-cheek, I tend to believe that
Madonna knows better.

If this record has a clear-cut inten-
tion, it is to raise body temperatures.
In “Dress You Up,’’ a sure shot for
her next single, she squeaks ‘‘gonna

dress you up in my love/all over your
body.’’ Anytime, sweetheart.

The album’s two ballads are nicely
done, and it is satisfying to note that
the better of the two, ‘“‘Shoo-Bee-
Doo,” was written by the lady
herself. Although ‘‘Love Don’t Live

Auditorium.

Auditorium.

ment. Reid 203.

Boneshakers.

Guion Auditorium.

Auditorium. Admission is free.

7:30 p.m. — HOLLINS:
Auditorium. Admission is free.

Auditorium. Admission is free.

 

ONCAMPUS

Monday, January 14
7 p.m. — FILM: ‘“Hamlet.’’ BBC Shakespeare series. Northen

Tuesday, January 15
7 p.m. — FILM: “Henry IV” part 1. BBC Shakespeare series. Northen
7 &9p.m. — FILM: “‘Open City.’’ Sponsored by journalism depart-

Wednesday, January 16
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘‘High Noon’ Commerce School 327.

8:30 p.m. — WEDNESDAY AT THE COCKPIT: Featuring the

OFFCAMPUS

Saturday, January 12
9 p.m. — SWEET BRIAR: January Mixer featuring the White
Animals. Williams Gymnasium. Admission is $4.

Monday, January 14
4 & 7:30 p.m. — SWEET BRIAR: “‘All Quiet on the Western Front.”

Tuesday, January 15
4 & 7:30 p.m. —SWEET BRIAR: “‘The Public Enemy.’’ Guion

Wednesday, January 16
“Rebel Without a Cause.’’ Babcock

4 & 7:30 p.m. — SWEET BRIAR: ‘It Happened One Night.’’ Guion

Here Anymore” aspires to be a tor-
chy soul number worthy of Diana
Ross, Madonna ends up sounding like
Cher. The track features sweeping
strings and a dramatic melody, but
Madonna simply cannot convey the
maturity needed for the song. :

No matter, though. There are more *
hits here than a K-tel record can.
boast. Top honors go to ‘‘Dress You
Up,”’ ‘‘Angel,”’ and ‘‘Shoo-Bee-Doo.”’
This one ought to tear up the air-
waves well into the summer.

And I’m excited about seeing more
of that belly-button on MTV.

 

 

 

‘Back Page’ launched

In an effort to provide readers with
more entertainment-oriented infor-
mation, the powers that be here at
The Ring-tum Phi proudly present
‘*The Back Page.”’

 

Pinney Prize

Call For Nominations Of Candidates For The

The prize is awarded annually by the University Council to an
undergraduate student who demonstrates extraordinary com-
mitment both to personal scholarship and to the nurturing of in-
tellectual life at Washington and Lee.

Submit nominations to Professor Kaiser

 

 

 

 

“‘The Back Page”’ will be a regular
weekly feature here on the last page
of the newspaper (hence the name),
and will focus on subjects of enter-
tainment, arts and leisure.

If you glance around the rest of the
page, you will notice a story on big
name acts coming to the pavilion, an
album review, tips on local skiing
and a calendar of events both on and
off campus.

These are only some of the features
we hope to bring you in the coming
weeks and we would greatly appre-
ciate input from you, the reader,
about what kinds of things you would
like to see us include on this page.

—Cotton Puryear, ‘‘The Back Page”’

Become a
‘My View’

columnist.
Call 463-8581.

 
