‘mt: umvsasm Lteamr
WA’§¥l'lNGTONt& me wwanam
iexmerom, VA. 24450

ON THE DOUBLE

A W&L Junior and His Twin Brother
Try to Bridge the Gap Between

the Minks and Cadets

Running Even

Generals Pound Davidson,
Bring Record to 2-2

U112 iiting-tum {ﬂirt

l

't.uMe 92, NO. 6

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 15, 1992

hi Delt meals, parties suspended for term

A nationals puts W&L chapter on social probatio

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi

e$hI Delta Theta house has been damaged several times since
s renovation was completed In 1991.

By NANCY PAVLOVIC
Phi Contributing Writer

Phi Delta Theta’s house corporation suspended
all chapter functions for the remainder of fall term to
punish the chapter for damage done to their house
during Homecoming weekend.

Also, Kappa Alpha was put on social probation
for the rest of fall term by their national organization
for violating alcohol policy during Tear Weekend.

The Interfraternity Council Tuesday approved
putting Phi Delt on “extensive social probation” for
damage done at a party with Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delt
President Jim Eddings said. During the party, a $500
chair was broken when a Beta alum and a Phi Delt
brother fell on it while wrestling. Eddings also said
partitions between stalls in an upstairs bathroom
were pulled out of the wall by a sophomore Phi Delt
pledge. A
In addition to being prohibited from holding so-
cial events, Phi Delt must close its kitchen. Eddings

said members’ food money will be refunded. Only
men who live at the fraternity house will be allowed
inside.

Members who broke the chair will pay for a
replacement, Eddings said.

“Extensive social probation is not the worst they
could do to us, but it is still serious,” Eddings said.
“We are not going to be a social entity until we clean
up our act."

Eddings said Phi Delt was already on social pro-
bation for rush violations when the damage occurred.
He said Associate Dean of Students for Greek Affairs
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins came to inspect the house

the morning after the party, after he received a call-

from a house corporation member.

“Basically, he told us we ought to start packing
our bags,” Eddings said.

Atkins said the damage was just the most recent in
a string of incidents at Phi Delt.

“It was a minor incident, but there have been a
number of minor incidents at Phi Delt in the past,"
Atkins said.

n forbuying alcohol, serving minors

Eddings acknowledged that Phi Delt has a history
of damaging their newly renovated house since they
moved in January 1991.

“It’s mostly stupid little boy stuff, ” Eddings said.
“Every fraternity breaks things, but at Phi Delt we do
it more often.”

Phi Delt’s housemother said she believes the
members deserved the punishment.

“Closing the kitchen and taking their parties away
would not seem fair if it was just everyday wear and
tear, but this was deliberate damage to the chair and
wall,” Mata McGuire said. “The house corporation
had every reason to punish them because it was
deliberate.”

Some members said the house corporation was
pressured by the administration to impose such a
harsh sentence.

“Atkins told the house corporation how serious he
took the situation and they're trying to equal his
feelings via the punishment,” said a member who

0 See PHI DELT, page 6

‘ CLU renews
'.tdget battle

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

C
W&L’s ACLU President Andrew Schneider demanded
onday that the EC re-evaluate its decision to deny his
A cup funding. Also, an EC member suggested that students
ight pay their car taxes in community service hours.
Schneider resubmitted hisoriginal budget request of
. 1,250, saying that the second request more clearly outlined
< e gctivities the American Civil Liberties Union chapter
-as planned for the campus.
Scheduled events include speak-outs outside the Co-op,
ebates, films and panel discussions, Schneider said.
The Executive Committee L t W ' ’
voted to table discussion on the . . ._  _
- CLU until Oct. 19. EC President
os MacFarland said the issue is
ot ow much the EC will give the
CLU, but whether they will fund
.e group at all.
MacFarland said he would like
0 research the ACLU more and
‘cl he hopes the rest of the EC
ill too.
§ctmeider said the ACLU wants _
0 get students more involved with s°h"°'de"
e Bill of Rights and that a liberal arts university has an
0 bligation to educate its students about national and interna-
'onal issues.
Schneider said every ACLU college chapter receives
oney from their school. In addition, he said the ACLU has
I ev9r endorsed or opposed any political candidate and
erefore cannot be accused of being partisan.

Schneider said the ACLU is not different from Amnesty
International, which received $700 from the BC.

In other business, junior EC Rep. Jimmy Kull said he met
with Dean of Students David L. Howison and Director of
Communications Brain Shaw to discuss a plan that would
allow students to work off their car tax in community service
hours.

Kull said both Howison and Shaw like the idea, but both
said they believe Mayor H. E. “Buddy” Derrick would not.
Kull said he will meet with Derrick soon.

The plan would be “a two-win situation,” Kull said.

The EC also took a second vote on the budget and passed
it uianimously. But the committee postponed deciding on
a mechanism for the Contact Committee co-sponsorship
fund.

5
.1
-. A

g ' — I ‘ mt.-.,'i nummttm
- _j‘ . ._ m. mauauutummmnvt/I“

The class of '43 will raise $175,000 to build a brick wall at the corner of Washington

and Jefferson streets.

‘Friendly wall’ to border W&L

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee’s front campus will get a
face lift this winter, thanks to the class of '43.

The university armounced plans last week to
build a three to four foot brick wall along Wash-
ington and Jefferson streets to replace the black
metal railing that currently borders the front cam-
pus.

W&L Director of Capital Planning Frank Par-
sons presented plans for the wall to the Lexington
Planning Commission last Thursday.

“That railing has been part of our campus for
so long that it's almost invisible,” Parsons said.
“But it’s actually ugly as sin.”

Parsons said he did not want Lexington resi-
dents to view the wall as something designed to
keep them away from the W&L campus.

“It’s a friendly wall,” Parsons said. “It’s the
kind of wall you cart sit on.”

Parsons said the $175,000 for the project is
being raised by the class of ’43. The wall will
commemorate the 19 members of that class who

were killed in World War II and will bearaplaque
with their names.

The wall will extend from either side of the
war memorial at the entrance to the Corral on
Jefferson Street. The wall will stretch to Letcher
Avenue on the north and to Washington Street on
the south. At the corner of Jefferson and Wash-
ington, a raised concave portion of the wall will
display “Washington and Lee University,
founded 1749."

According to an architect’s sketch, the wall
will be constructed of red brick to match existing
brick walls in Red Square.

Parsons said constnrction on the wall will
begin as soon as the Lexington City Council
gives final approval of the project. He said the
wall will be built in stages, as money is raised by
the class.

Parson said he is confident that the money will
be raised in time to complete the wall by Alumni
Weekend in May, when the class of '43 will have
its 50th armiversary.

“There are-several individuals in this class
who have the means to undertake the entire
project," Parsons said.

Freshmen Jon McEIhaney, Clay Richards, Chris MacNaughton and Kyle Edwards take advan-

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

tage of the mild tall weather to discuss lacrosse strategies on the Colonnade.

By MICHAEL Hnwurrr
Phi Contributing Writer

Washington and Lee's student po-
liticos are getting busy as the Presiden-
tial election edges closer.

College Democrat President Cottie
Miles said his organization will set up
phone banks in November to call reg-
istered voters and encourage them to
vote. Also, Miles said the College
Democrats have plans to go to Wash-
ington, D.C., to see Democratic presi-
dential candidate Bill Clinton’s inau-
guration, if Clinton wins the election.

Miles also said literature booths will
open this weekend at Kmart from noon
until 4 p.m. Students will hand out
political literature with information
about Clinton and his stand on issues.

College Republicans Chairman
Amanda Stewart said the College Re-
publicans plan to work with Bob
Goodlatte. a candidate for Virginia's
6th Congressional District. At local
football games, students will pass out
ﬂyers about Goodlatte.

Christine Will, secretary of the Col-
lege Republicans, said her group plans

 VMI-W&L fight

prompts attempt

By Kxrna YDEL
Phi Staff Writer

A fight last"we‘e'k‘l5etwe€riVMI ca-
dets and a W&L student has prompted
administrators from the two schools to
try to ease tensions between the student
bodies.

Washington and Lee Dean of Stu-
dents David L. Howison and Virginia
Military Institute Commandant Mike
Bissell met Monday with students who
were involved in a fight Oct. 8 that sent
one W&L student to the hospital.

“The purpose [of the meeting] was
not so much why [the fight] happened,
but how we can ease the tension,"
Howison said.

Howison said he met with Bissell,
thetwo cadets from VMI and two W&L
students to discuss the history of con-
flict between the two schools.

The most recent violent encounter
between cadets and W&L students oc-
curred early Oct. 8 in Red Square.

Chris Murphy, a member of Beta
Theta Pi, said a VMI cadet came to the
Beta house at about 3 a.m. The cadet
and the W&L students exchanged in-
sults, and the cadet and Phi Delta Theta
member Josh Helton got in a fight.
Murphy said the cadet was injured and
had to get two or three stitches in hislip.

Bissell said the ﬁght started when
the cadet came over to have a cigarette
and talk to a few W&L students on the
street outside the Beta house. Accord-
ing to Bissell, the cadet was approached
by a group of students who knocked his
cigarette down and smashed his fingers
when he tried to pick it up.

After the cadet went back to the
barracks, ﬁve or six other cadets re-

at reconcilation

turned to Red Square at about 5 a.m.,
Howison said. According to W&L Se-
curity Director Mike Young, the first
cadet was not in the group that re-
turned. The second group of cadets
went to the Beta house and then to Phi
Delt, looking for Helton, Young said.

Murphy said a cadet went to
Helton’s room and told Helton that the
police were outside and wanted to talk
to him. Murphy said that once Helton
got outside, he and one of the cadets
got in a fight. Young said the cadet
knocked out three of Helton’s teeth.

Bissell said the cadets who came to
the Phi Delt house just wanted to talk
to Helton about what had happened
earlier, and that the cadet who entered
the Phi Delt house did not tell Helton
that the police were outside.

Murphy said Howison called him
Monday to talk about the incident.

“We decided it would be a good
idea to have a meeting to clear the air
and make amends,” Murphy said.

Murphy and Helton were at the
meeting along with two of the cadets
involved in the fights. Howison said
the group cleared up many misunder-
standings between the two schools.

The students mostly discussed the
differences between the two schools,
Howison said, and they agreed the
differences could be worked out.

“I didn't sense any hostility,” said
Howison. “I thought they genuinely
wanted to work this out.”

Students from both schools agreed
that they would work to promote better
relations between schools, to prevent
anyone else from getting hurt.

“We came to an understanding that
we would do our best to talk positively
about the other schools,” Murphy said.

Students gear up for ’92 election

If the 1992 Presidential Election were held tomorrow,

who would you vote for?

5% 4%

Statistics are based on a random survey of 50 W&L students conducted Oct. 13-14.
Margin of error is 17 percent.

to canvass, or go into the community
and talk to people about the candidates.
Will said the College Republicans will
also volunteerat the Rockbridge County
Republicans’ office.

Tonight, both groups will travel to
Richmond for the presidential debate.
Will said the College Republicans will
attend a banquet and watch the debate

on a big screen. The College Demo-
crats will attend rallies at the Capitol
and at the University of Richmond,
Miles said.

No matter where one leans in terms
of political parties, sophomore Pina
Benincasa said she thinks it is impor-
tant to have varied opinions on campus
“as long as they are educated."

PAGE 2

 

 

Glitz ‘tiling-tunt lﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Punishments teach
the wrong lessons

Washington and Lee preaches honor and civility as its highest
virtues, virtues individual students are held accountable to by the
Executive Committee and the Student Conduct Committee. One

- would think the administration of a university steeped in such

traditions would be all the more intent on instilling good moral
values in its students.

Recent events, however, have shown that the university’s
lessons are doing anything but instructing students on the proper
ways to live their lives.

Lesson Number One: Justice is not blind.

In reprimanding fraternities for destroying their houses, the,
university administration seems to be following the Orwellian rule
that some fraternities are more equal than others. Last year, the
university suspended Delta Tau Delta fraternity for one and a half
years after three Delts wreaked havoc in their soon-to-be reno-
vated house. When asked why the punishment was so severe,
Dean of Students David Howison proclaimed that Delt’s punish-
ment was “the new standard” for fraternities. ‘

Perhaps it is the old standard. Less than one year after the Delt
decision the newly renovated Phi Delta Theta house suffered at the
hands of a few brothers and pledges. According to the university’s
self-proclaimed standards, Phi Delt should have been suspended

A at least until next fall. But Phi Delt was only partially suspended

for three months.

Why the change of rules? Perhaps the administration doesn’t
want to lose one of the larger houses on campus. Perhaps inﬂuen-
tial Phi Delt alumni turned the heat on under the university's toes.
Or maybe the university realized the Delt decision was a grave
mistake.

Lesson Number Two: Individuals can hide behind the curtain
of a group.

When the administration decided to suspend Delt last winter,
they set a patently unfair precedent. An entire fraternity suffered
for the irresponsible actions of three of its members. Two of those

members have graduated and one was expelled from the fraternity.

But the remaining brothers are suffering for the actions of those
three. Are we being taught that brotherhood should be so strong as
to force an innocent person to sacrifice himself for the stupid and
irresponsible actions of another? No affiliation can ever make
someone responsible for events beyond his control; just joining a
group does not force an individual to give up independent thought
and actions.

Still, the university has decided to continue teaching herd
morality. The entire Phi Delt house is being punished for the
transgressions of one or two. Perhaps the university decided to
maintain one of its own standards and punish the entire Phi Delt
as it did the Delt house. Perhaps the university is missing the point.

The administration has erred doubly. First they applied an
unjust standard to Delt. Then they changed the rules, yet left them
unjust. The only way to rectify both mistakes is to punish the
individuals responsible for the damage in Phi Delt, and to allow
Delt back on campus immediately.

The student body of Washington and Lee is made up of unique
individuals. Students are not cattle to be herded together by
accusations or punishments. The administration should laud indi-
viduals for their accomplishments and make them rectify their
mistakes. Do not lump them all together in categories for
convenience’s sake. To do so is to teach a lesson far removed from
this university’s standards of honor and civility.

C.L. , F.K.

Quote of the Week

I’d like to thank all of you who have touched me in some way
over the last year.

— Bill Clinton
or . ' . 0
(J11: tiling-him 15111
Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Catliryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . : . .JebTi1ly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . Nikki Magazmer

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes‘ primanly
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cunent court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

STEVE. OUR Fil=T+l
THIS CAKTOON is Debicwtri-:

EAK FtziEND,
To Au. ouK
Ftrrl-l YEAZ BUDDVES

Q

The Ring-tum Phl, October 15, 199 A

Scripted d

WASHINGTON —— George Bush
is as addicted to them as a toddler is to
his security blanket. He recites from

ebates

a sign of the times,

The Bush-Quayle forces had other
requests during the two long days 0

pre-debate talks that ended at 3 a.m.

American Express traveler, he can’t
leave home without them.

Not even for his overnight debate
trip to St. Louis Oct. 11.

If Bush and Co. had gotten their
way, a White House official confirms,
the President would have strode onto
the Missouri stage armed with the same
staff—drafted ‘ ‘talking points” he’sbeen
reading on the stump in TV interviews.

Sadly for the script-addicted Presi-
dent, it didn’t work out that way. Nego-
tiators for Clinton and rimning mate Al
Gore rejected the idea of candidates
bringing “notes” to the televised de-
bates during the early hours of Oct. 3.

Indeed, they threatened to add in-
sult to injury, dating the President's
representatives to let the debate talks
founder over the Bush-Quayle desire
to bring “Cliff Notes” onto the stage
with them.

The effort of the President's han-
dlers to arm their man with “notes”
for his prime-time debates with Clinton
and independent Ross Perot is, itself, a
nasty confession of Bush’s re-election
predicament. A President who once
derided press concerns about his lack
of a “vision thing” now ﬁnd himself
relying on other peoples’ words to de-
fend his own presidency. To take on
46-year-old Bill Clinton, a man he
mocks as insufficiently prepared,
George Bush wants a script.

thematrallies, clutches themin“Good samrday_
M°mm8 Améfica" imewiews With Not all were intellectual in nature.
J03“ Lund?“-,1-3?‘ T“?-Sday. he CV6-_n The President asked to use a stool, or
used’ them in issuing his “Let's get it examp e,
on! call for during thn
Bl" Cilnton second en.l
IO debate. _ t _‘-
Irefer to CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS ,°,°‘§", 1’,
those three . . . C1‘ t ta
by ﬁve cards Tribune Media Services P8113 " “is
0f _ the debate, slet
Pr_esident’s. for tonight,
Like the is what

aides have begun calling the “Oprah
Winfrey.” It's when the three presi-
dential candidates take questions from
a studio audience, as if they were stars
of a popular talk show. 3'

Vice President Dan Quayle wanted
to go further in the funiiture depart-
ment.

His staff confesses that the young
Hoosier would have been “more com-
fortable’ ’ sitting through his entire de-
bate with Tennessee Sen. Al Gore hid
Perot’s running mate, Jim Stockdale,
on Oct. 13.

Others might assume Quayle is less
worried about his physical comforttlian
his mental frame-of-mind on stage.
Four years ago, the current Vice Presi-
dent had to stand paralyzed before Ore
American people as Sen. Lloyd Bentsen
took his head off with the “You’re no
Jack Kennedy” line. ‘

But the most damning request of the
Bush-Qiiayle forces was their call for
“notes.”

On Oct. 5, Vice President Quayle
absolved Bush-backer Arnold
Schwarzenegger from his criticism that
movies have too much sex and vio-
lence.

“They just give him the script to
follow,” Quayle said.

He could say the same thing abtuit
George Bush. I

© 1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Fallacies of trade agreement cleared up

WASHINGTON— The fact that the North Ameri-
can Free Trade Agreement has caused Bill Clinton
anxiety indicates why he causes anxiety: Some of his
better instincts seem to ﬂicker like candles in the
wind when they conﬂict

6

lar industries and interests. However, NAFTA is

progress.
Today Mexican tariffs are, on average, two and a
half times higher than U.S. tariffs. (Clinton’s support
. for NAFTA may have

with the strong, steady ap- 'less to do with a philoso'- A
petites of some of his con- GEORGE WILL phy of freedom than with
stituencies. Still, his en- a political calculation:
dorsement of NAFTA—— Washington Past Writers Group Michigan, Ohio and Illi-

grudging and guarded

nois are among the 10

though it was, and not for

the right reasons—is a

mildly encouraging portent of the probable Clinton
presidency.

It is said that NAFTA will, if ratiﬁed, create the
world’s largest common market, encompassing 365
million consumers, 20 million more than the Euro-
pean Community. But it will not really be like the
common market that now extends from Maine to
California.

NAFTA is not nearly as good as it’s cracked up to
be by its supporters becaifse it is not what it is said to
be

It is not really a free trade agreement. In fact, a
2,0()0-page free trade agreement is a contradiction in
terms. Twenty paragraphs would suffice to establish
really free trade, which does not require armies of
bureaucrats to enforce the hairsplittings of legions of
lawyers.

NAFTA reduces many trade barriers, but, in ef-
fect, moves others outward, to serve as ramparts
around Mexico, Canada and the United States. Con-
sider, for example, the “rules of origin” regulating
domestic content requirements of goods defined as
“North American.” The rules include this triple niggle
regarding textiles: North American yarn must be
used in fabrics made in North America for clothes
cut in North America.

NAFTA creates a regional bloc to rival, and
impede, the exporting Pacific Rim nations. Many of
the 2,000 pages, properly deciphered, record U.S.,
Canadian and Mexican jockeying to protect particu-

states selling most to

_ Mexico.) NAFTA will

quickly mean cheaper and more plentiful fruits and

vegetables, products currently subject to tariffs pro-
tecting U.S. farmers.

NAFTA will, after a 15-year phase-in, further link
the commercial lives of three nations that already
have huge trade ﬂows with each other. Critics of
NAFTA cite the disparities of development between
the United States and Mexico, with its population of
85 million (four times that of Canada.) They fear the
ﬂow southward of low-skill jobs. «

But the Mexican economy is just one-twentietli
the size of the U.S. economy, and the Bush adminis-
tration guesses that the increased bilateral trade would
increase U.S. GNP only slightly. Ross Perot, the
timidest Texan, quakes about the menace of Mexico,
saying NAFTA would apply “a giant sucking—sound
vacuum on what used to be industrial America.”

NAFTA is especially important in forcing people
to define their stance toward the future. Are they too
timid about change? Are they too confident they can
discern the shape of the future?

Recent administration testimony supporting
NAFTA resulted in this cockamamie headline:

“Trade Pact Could Cost Up to 150,000 Jobs”

The administration also says there would be
325,000 new jobs created in the ﬁrst five years, a net
gain of 175,000.

But stay with the idea of “lost jobs.” lftlie mental-
ity common among NAFTA’s liberal critics had
prevailed when the automobile industry was in its

infancy, government might have strangled the infant

_ in its cradle—in the name of “compassion," of course.

The Richard Gephardts of that day would have
said: Pity the poor tanners, hamess-makers, buggy

, and buggy-whip manufacturers, livery stable opera-

tors, blacksmiths——woe! J obs»“lost” to the horseless
carriage. ,

The A1 Gores of that day would have warned that
the internal

combustion

engilricavould

s i e ur- *‘—““'—"“‘—". .
,,‘,’,‘,’, a,,_a;, But if Clinton gets to
hhend p<;r- the White House be

m

n‘,’,ee° mnnm’, shoirlbd]hewth_ the rrtiihst .
horses, each SEIISI C sen imen C
P’°"“°“‘3 uttered on the way
upward of th . “P . .

i w e n t y ere. rotectionism
Pounds of is just a fancy word
manureaday. . . ,,

manure that fol‘ glvlng llp.
attracted

swarms of

ﬂies until it

' was ground by traffic into a dust that covered clothes

and furniture and coated nostrils.

Freer trade means faster change, and Clinton h2s
spent his adult life courting groups, especially labor
groups, that want activist government to preserve the
status quo. A President Clinton and a Democratic
Congress could have a grand time using NAFTA as
an excuse for spending and regulating (called “tran-
sition strategies”) to help those hurt by freer trade,
and those who think they are entitled to compenst
tion for any inconvenience of change.

But if Clinton gets to the White House he should
hew to the most sensible sentiment he uttered on the
way there: “Protectionism is just a fancy word for
giving up.”

©1992, Washington Post Writers Group

LETTERS

W&L comunity receives resounding thanks -

Dear Editor:

 

Wildcats. Dear Editor:

Onbehalf of Kathekon, W&.L’s_stu- On behalf of the Rockbridge Com-
dent alumni group. and the Washmg- _ munity Unit of the American Cancer
ton and Lee Alumni Office, we would Sincerely. Society, I want to
like to thank all who helped to make the James D_ thank Washington
Homecoming Parade a success. Farm,’ and Lee students

Spooral thanlss goes to all those Anmm, fortheir assistance
_who participated in the parade, spend- Di and nanicinan-on
mg their free time building ﬂoats and recwr in me fourth an-
decorating cars that truly represented a nual M akin g
cross-section of the W&L studentbody. Robeﬂ M. Strides Against

We would also like to convey our Mish, III cancer event
gl;Pf¢:31131v1&’81:LfS‘3F Bfllngnf)-°> an‘: Assistant which took place

oun s, ecunty, e eano - 1 5 d _
  3'30 W35’ 35-
9 3“ Pa 91105. 6 lected to assist us

para:/ie hould théveth have taken nlace. Mame W in providing pro-
e ope t‘ e success 0 this W - ans [0 re en,
‘)1/ear’s iliraurladte revitalizeshh festive tra- Felber. anger, ,2 gen-
ition_ t rings toge er students, Staff hnne research,
a1“mm~a_"d m"'mbe’5,°f‘h¢ I-°"m8_‘°“ Associate and to provide
gimarlrliunity and provides a good time service and reha.

,. . . .

- , _ -I-h bilitation for lo-

_ We look forward to your participa- H omas ca] cancer sum-
tion in next year’s parade on October 9, °°Pe" Vo,s_ Chris Tho-
1993, as we build spirit for the Home- K3’-hekon Inns’ 13, and 3
coming game against the Davidson President , e C 0 V e r i n 8

luekemia survivor was the Grand Prize
winner of a free weekend at
Massanutten Resort.

, - In particular, the following weifa
tremendous help in planning, organiz-
ing, publicizing and carrying out the
event: Maureen Levey, Catherine
Fraser, Molly Apter, Andrea Cobrin,
Erin McKinney, Amy Panella, Carrie
Southgate, Stacy Newlin, Stacy
Donovan, Mary Catherine Auro, Elih-
beth Dettrnar, Kathleen Sparks, Amy
Brown, Shannon Jones, Cory Chung,
Julie Sauers, Kathy Mekjian, Becca
Reed, Amy Myers, Lisa Zarek, Sarah
Wyatt, Sally Obermueller, Megan
Mccloskey, Sonya Soderberg,
Jeannette Burgess, and Eve McDonaﬂ.
On behalf of all those in our commu-

nity fighting for their lives, a huge'

“THANK YOU”!

Sincerely Yours,

W.C. “Burr” Datz

President, Rockbridge Community
Unit, ACS

 

 
   
   
 

J

    
 

O

The Hing-tum Phl, October 15, 1992

OPINION

lirection Man battles diabolical villians

ONi: GUY’s OPINION
' By Chris Citron

One day this summer, I was sittin’
around letting my mind wander, when
I started thinking about Superheros and
how...okay, okay. That's not what
really happened. Let me start again.

9 I was thinking about sex and
what...hold on. That's not entirely
accurate either. To tell the honest truth,
I was thinking of sophomore girls,
which led to thoughts of sex, which in
led to thoughts of superhuman
s ength, which resulted in a complex,
eam-of-conscious, mental debate on
e redundancy of Superhero charac-
teristics, which lasted approximately
9/, 0 of a second. (I realize that 9/10 of
a second is a lot of thinking for the
s er program, but believe me when
I y that it was accidental. Plus, it did
in olve sex). 7
irially, through much deliberation,
I got this great idea of an entirely new
Superhero who represents true physi-
cal characteristics. I then presented
this brainstorm to my family at the
dinner table to observe their reactions,
aid now present it to you, extremely
bored readers. (Why else would you
read this column?) Please let me know

   

what you think of.....
ERECTION MAN!
Check this out. Mild-inarmered

condom factory worker, Richard Head,
lyads downtown to begin a normal day
of work. He buys a cup of java to get
him started athis usual place, The Rosy
Palm, and continues toward the comer
where he buys his bi-weekly copy of

Bloated Buns, or Gals From Girls
Schools, another favorite of the lewd
magazine cult. However, today the
newsstand has the anniversary editions
of both, and so Dick is ecstatic and
knows this is going to be an unbeliev-

zines ruined than the potential damage
to his body, Dick does not take the time
to rinse himself of the lubricant until
convinced by his friend, Larry Hildo.
When done and inspected by the health
inspectors, Dick is allowed to leave.

able day_ He deliberates on what he should do

He arrives at and then real-
the factory at i265 that he
7:50 am,, just must replace
in time for his Dick can no longer his P916"
8:00 shift, Not . . possessions
even time for a handle h'mSelf' He’S d1?‘ that were lost
guickloolltlseeat turbed that the man is giotrhe §:p(1)<§

is pure ases, ' 1 .
hesndesimohis holding up the store, but Dick goes to
uniform and even more agitated that the closest
heads for the he is taking Dick’s only °°“"°“"=“°°
"'°§“°"°",1,‘"f’ true love Fear and hate 
rea y I0 6 p ' . . . ‘ _ _
formalltypesof and anger boiling within this horrible
latex toys, un- - - ° _ day.
suspecting of hi_m, arid excitement tin . By . ms
the fantastic gling him because of his time. It is
 “Lag: capacity to feel these emo-  (gff
away from "ans: I_)1ck _Sll}1deﬂ1y spectors had
lclfianging his drops his twinkies and totrun 
1 e, - es s on ic

At loam‘  tonne Since he was
it’scoffeebreak the only one
time, and Dick covered by
heads to the john for the much antici- the lubricant in the explosion).

pated look at his newly-purchased eu-
phoria. While doing what guys do with
girly magazines in the bathroom, an
explosion rocks the factory, spewing
radioactive condom lubricant all over,
covering Dick’s entire body, and se-

cretly transforming hirn into Erection-

Man.
More upset about having his maga-

Dick walks through the aisles of the
store picking up much-needed grocer-
ies, plarming on purchasing his be-
loved beauties at the check—outcounter.
However, while approaching the check-
out line he sees a man in an overcoat
there and a very frightened sales clerk
nervously handing over every copy of
Bloated Buns and Gals From Girls

Schools. Upon closer observation, Dick
realizes that the man in the overcoat
has a gun and is actually robbing the
store of its entire inventory of those
magazines!

Dick can no longer handle himself.
He's disturbed that the man is holding
up the store, but even more agitated
that he is taking Dick’s only true love.
Fear and hate and anger boiling within
him, and excitement tingling him be-
cause of his capacity to feel these emo-
tions, Dick suddenly drops his twinkies
and begins to....enlarge! Bursting out
of his clothes and physically trans-
forming, Dick becomes an eight-foot
erection within 10 seconds!

Not knowing what has happened to
him,and not caring at thispoint in time,
Dick starts to yell at the thief, but finds
that he does not quite know how. Now
even more frustrated, he begins to pump
himself up and down to try and facili-
tate some type of movement. The
crook hears this commotion and turns,
horriﬁed by this huge pha1lic...thing.
He is now scared and fires a shot at it.
Dick miraculously dodges the bullet
but can no longer contain himself. In a
frenzy of uncontrolled spasms, he
ejaculates, covering the criminal in an
extremely viscous liquid, rendering him
defenseless.

After a few minutes of twitching
Dick relaxes, returning back to nomial,
thoroughly exhausted. He graciously
takes the copies of his wanted maga-
zines, free of charge, and staggers home,
not quite understanding what tran-
spired, but conscious enough to know
that he will have to save Bloated Buns
for tomorrow.

rm-;m( TKAMSPOKTER PxC.Cll)ENT OPENS A T-2\Fi' (N TIME,
Ti>(l7°\P0§’lt~l(: Two CULT!/(KES or emozmowl

  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
      
   
    

r 
r I

 

Ji

 LET ME oer THl$ smA\eHT~
’ You SAlL AROUND THE Hm/ens

1>tsco\/e'e\He NEW W09‘-D 3, L°°""“"
 %‘I>MTHlvM <’»sV~‘~T+w%“ AND wNV€RT'NG
  ‘:1’  ; NA'n;ve's v To Acme ma ,__¥ll./.U\/_W\N.l SIM ?       

it

“\
\wcT

/.l,.
1 if ‘
hilt

19.3

<:§

DAMM 1T KIM’ "£'IV\ _
A §QQ,Tc)KI NOT‘ P>»_V_,.--
c. Nau\tm>ti>oR. .

I Interviews and Photos

I

I

 

Bill Coffin, ‘93, Easton, Pa. —“I
thought Bush was a waffler, Clinton
was a smarmy bozo, and Perot gave a
good stand-up act.”

 

‘ By Jameson Leonardi

    

John Givens, ‘94, Salem, Va. —-—

TALKBACK

 

Malinda Murphy, ‘93, Fort Worth, Texas and Randy Smith, ‘93, Au-
“I have come to the conclusion both gusta, Ga. —-— “I think Clinton must have decided to inhale before the debate.”
politics and politicians suck.” ‘ _

GENERAL
NOTES

Lecture  

Duke University professor
Herbert Kitschelt will give a lecture
entitled, “The Problems with the
Unification of Germany.’ ’ The lec-
ture will be held in Northen Audito-
rium on Monday, Oct. 19 at 7:30
p.m. Professor Kitschelt has taught
at Berkeley, Stanford, and Notre
Dame and effective 1993, he will
hold a joint appointment as Profes-
sor of Political Science at Duke
University and Humboldt Univer-
sity in Berlin.

The EC

The EC will interview students
for student-faculty committees on
Monday. The interviews will begin
at 7:15 p.m. Applications can be
picked up outside of Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center. For
more information contact Bob
Tompkins at 463-8587 (office) or
436-11 15 (home).

Party Pics

The proofs from the Bordello
Disco Party on Sept. 30 are posted
in the Bordello living room. They
will be available until Oct. 20. Make
checks out to Meredith Gronroos.

VMI-W&L

Needed. Men and women inter- ‘
ested in organizing a VMI-W&L
student organization. Call Jason at
464-6259.

Haunted House

Lambda Chi Alpha will hold a
HauntedHouse onHalloweennight,
Saturday, Oct. 31, from 7-9 p.m. in
conjunction with the Lexington

’ Police Dept.‘ Admissiorilfot eiii1‘-~“~‘ ' H _ M
' dren,12 and .tm'der. is‘i50:cents.ii/ith.;i' those~'§tud'ents' who have not sub-‘
" proceeds to be donated to the United

Way. The Lambda Chi House is
located at 225 E. Nelson St. Ques-
tions? Call 463-2600.

WLUR

WLUR will present an album
feature every Thursday from 5-5 :45
p.m. Listen to hear new albums
from the hottest rock artists. Signs
will be posted each week as to what
band will be spotlighted.

CollegeDems

There will be a meeting of the
CollegeDemocrats this Sunday, Oct.
18 at 7 p.m. in the University Center
game room. New members are al-
ways welcome. For more informa-
tion call 463-8984.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Hear

Field Studies

The School for Field Studies will
present a program about their op-
portunities for environmental field

 

study experiences. It will be held on
Monday, Oct 26 at 4 p.m. in Room
109 U.C. These internship experi-
ences are open for underclassmen
and seniors in all majors. Infonna-
tion is available in CDP office.

An Insurance Opportunities
Seminar will be held on Tuesday,
Oct 27 at 4 p.m. in Room 109 U.C.
A representative from Life of Vir-
ginia will present an overview of
career paths afforded by insurance
companies such as: sales, under-
writing, and claims adjusting.

Contact

Zvi Dor-Ner, producer of Co-
lumbus’ Magnificent Voyage will
speak in Lee Chapelon Monday,
Oct 19 at 8 p.m. This is the first

speaker sponsored by Contact 1992-
93.

SPJ

SPJ will meet tonight at 6:30
p.m. in Reid Library. Anyone inter-

ested in joining please come. Offic-
ers will be elected and activities
discussed.

CD&P

From the CD&P: Resume and
Cover Letter Workshop on Mon-
day, Oct. 19 from 4-5 p.m. (Room
109 U.C.), and Practice Interviews
for all students all day Tuesday,
Oct. 20.

Financial Aid

Students needing financial as-
sistance for Spring Term Abroad
Programs should contact the Finan-
cial Aid Office irrimediately. For

mitted a Financial Aid form for
1992-93, the priority deadline for
submission for spring term assis-
tance is Nov. 2.

Bridge The Gap

Bridge The Gap, Oct 16 at 5p.m.
in the Dell behind the Library.

Theater Tickets

The Theater Department will
present Moliere’s classic, The
Imaginary Invalid,‘ Oct. 22, 24, 26,
and 27 at 8 p.m. and Oct. 24 and 25
at 2 p.m. in the Lenfest Center.
Tickets can be purchased at the
Lenfest Center Box Office between
12-4 p.m. Monday through Friday
or by calling 463-8000.

A What did you think of Sunday’s presidential debate? 

Alegra O‘Hare, ‘94,0akland,Md.

—— “I would‘ve watched it but there
was a blue light special at Kmart.”

Tom Fink, ‘96, Ashtabula, Ohio ;
—-— “I think if Perot doesn‘t win, he ‘-I
has a deﬁnite spot lined up for Satur- 2
day Night Live.” J

 

 

By KIM MARcorrr
Phi Contributing Writer

Many young boys dream
of a life of adventure as a fire-
man. Junior Jack Sorrels is
living that dream as a volun-
teer for the Lexington Fire
Squad.

Sorrels spends up to 20
hours each week aiding the
ﬁre squad.

He acknowledged that be-
ing a W&L student sometimes
earns him a hard time from the ,
other volunteers, “But it’s all '
in fun,” he said.

Originally from Augusta,
Ga., Sorrells moved to Lex-
ington while he was in high
school. His grandfather, ana-
tive of Lexington, got him in-
terested in the fire service.

“My grandfather’s been in
the ﬁre service since 1953,”

 

school because of an age requirement.
The fire department receives 350-450 calls a year, or

Student turns down the heat

W&L junior volunteers for Lexington Fire Squad

._, a little more than one a day,

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-rum Phi

Junlor Jack Sorrels checks the water
valves of a Lexington fire truck.

said Sorrells, who could notvo1umeer umit after high makes, Sorrells said the real reward is self-satisfaction.
“It's nice to know it’s been a job well done and to get a

thank you.”

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 15, 1992

FEATURES

Sorrells said. Calls are prima-
rily to help extricate passen-
gers from vehicle accidents on
I-81 and I-64.
~ Sorrells said there are mini-

mal calls for actual structure

ﬁres.
‘ The department continues
to use a general whistle to
gather six to eight volunteers
- per call. Although calls occur
"j" at any time, Sorrells manages
ot to let that get in the way of
" his studies.

“I usually stay in class,” he
said.

The department meets as a
group each week to complete
its required 50 hours of train-
ing per year and to drill. Vol-
unteers also brush up on skills
in special classes held for emer-
gency staff throughout the area.

Although avolunteer is paid
a small amount for each call he

SAB plans ‘bigger, better things’

Wide variety of entertainmentplanned for this year

By Tom Hraspos
Phi Contributing Writer

The Washington and Lee Student
Activities Board has plans for bigger
and better things after receiving an
$8,000 budget increase from the Ex-
ecutive Committee.

“One of our goals this year is trying
to provide a variety of entertainment,”
said SAB Vice Chair and Treasurer
Hobson Barnes.

According to Barnes, the SAB re-
ceived $63,000 from EC this year,
$8,000 more than last year.

With this money, Barnes said that
SAB will be able to sponsor more events
and provide better publicity for those
events.

“We doubled our request for pub-
licity,” Barnes said.

Barnes said publicity was a prob-
lem for SAB last year, “especially at
smaller events.”

According to Barnes, SAB has

‘nearly ﬁnalized plans for the Spin Doc-
tors to play at the Pavilion on Christ-
mas Weekend.

“It’s as sure as sure can be,” he said.

In addition to booking bands like
the Spin Doctors for big weekends,
Barnes said SAB plans to host bands in
the General Headquarters.

According to Barnes, SAB has
booked the Super Grit Cowboy Band
for Oct. 21. and a Dixieland jazz band
for Oct. 28.

Barnes said SAB has tentative plans
to book the Dave Matthews Band, Dash

Rip Rock and Valence for other dates
in the GHQ. SAB also has plans to host
a jazz band during winter term and to
have SGG&L play on the Colonnade in
the spring.

SAB will also sponsor a cocktail
party in the Fairfax Lounge for Parents
Weekend.

Recently, SAB has sponsored mov-
ies in the newly reopened Troubadour
Theater. t

According to Barnes, movies will
be shown in the Troubadour Theater on
the first Sunday of each month.

As for this year’ s Fancy Dress band,
Barnes said that booking a good band
depends on who is touring in the area at
the time.

“A lot of itis just luck,” he said. “It’s
a bad touring time for bands.”

VF

You ﬂlre Corc[ia[[y

I noitecf to L1  

Tczrents ‘Weekend’
Reception

frictay, Octolier 23
4:30 - 6:30 pm.
in Qaines Qatenouse‘

Sponsored Ey
The King-‘Tum Tﬁi
and tlie Society of

Trofessionaijournaﬁsts

ﬂllfmemﬁers of the ‘W551. community and parents

are invited to attend.

-1

JJ

  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
    
   
    
 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum 
Twln brothers Martin and Jason Dunn discuss plans for proposed VMI-W&L group. q 1

Brothers plan W&L-VMI group

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Staff Writer

A family bond has motivated two
brothers to overcome the rivalry of
two adjacent yet ironically isolated
schools, Washington and Lee and Vir-
ginia Military Institute.

W&L junior Jason Dunn and his
twin brother, Martin, who attends VMI,
have set upon a course to unite students
from the two schools.

“I’d like to have something more in
common [with VMI] sporting events,”
Jason said.

“We’re not looking to make a great
union between the schools. We just
want some sortof tie,” Martin said.

Jason and his brother are in the
planning stage of establishing an orga-
nization comprised of students from
both schools.

Jason said the organization will be
community service oriented and will
occasionally sponsor historical lectures
at Lee Chapel and VMI’s Jackson Hall
open to all students from both schools.

Jason has already contacted VMI
historians, who said they are willing to
speak on the history of the two schools.

“You’d think there couldn't be any
schools more different. But both are
tradition oriented, and both have a
strong honor system,” Jason said.

Before the semester began, Jason

presented his idea to Dean of Students
David Howison, who expressed full
support of the potential organization.

Howison and Commandant Mike
BissellatVMIhadpreviouslydiscussed
the idea of such an organization but did
not go forward with the idea because of
a lack of student interest, Jason said.

Both Bissell and Howison are offer-
ing Jason and Martin full support but
are allowing the brothers to take the
initiative to establish the organization
on their own.

“I’m not really an organizational
person. I've never done anything like
this before,” Jason said.

Nonetheless, Martin said Jason is
the true organizer while he is merely
gaining support from fellow VMI ca-
dets.

He and his brother have decided to
form a committee or “think tank” of
three or four students from each school
to develop the goals of the organiza-
tion.

If all goes well, Jason would like to
have a meeting of this committee be-
fore the end of the month.

Once they have accomplished this,
they will present the idea to the Lex-
ington Leadership Council, which is
comprised of W&L and VMI adminis-
trators and Lexington city leaders.

Howison suggested taking this route
as a means of gaining further support
for the establishment of the organiza-

tion. .

Jason has also discussed the idea
with Executive Committee President
Josh McFarland and EC Vice Pres‘!
dent Ames Hutton, who he said sup-
port the formation of the organization
100 percent and will provide financial
support through the EC.

“It's all up to me now,” Jason said

Jason said he would have formed
the organization earlier if he had reai
ized the need for it. _

He said he had always been aware
of VMI’s presence, but conﬂicts be-
tween the two schools did not become
apparent to him until his sophomore
year.

Jason said that the thing that realb;
focused his attention on the two schools
was a recent article in The Ring-tum
Phi concerning a fight between VMI
cadets and W&L students.

“I want it [the organization] to be
positive and not justa reactionary thing.
I want it to be more than a way to shot;
cadets aren’t bad,” he said.

So far, Jason has received support
from students at both schools, but he
hopes to gain even more, especially
from freshmen and sophomores.

Considering they only have one
more year before they graduate, J asog
and Martin are counting on that year to
strengthen the organization.

“I hope it doesn’t end as soon as my
brother and I graduate,” Martin said.

 

    

pres en ts

21,,

 iﬁm

    

   
 

Q

"1 e Ring-tum Phl, October 1 5, 1992

 

FEATURES

. 9
510,- X inin 0.0 .0 i -

  
  
  
    
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
   
    
   
 
   
  

year include Choral Fan-
fare. Mendelssohn’s

1 hamber ChOl|' TeC9lV9S mlX9d reviews Colonnade Crossword

By KRIS LAWRENCE

  

.. , ACROSS
Phi Contributing Writer l_?llJah, and Rutter sDash- 1 Allow
—-—-mm mg away with the smooth- 4 Pasteboards
Last springaspanofme ing ,',-o,,_ 9 Romantic isle

The Chamber Choir’s  ;,‘aE,'(aa%‘°"
next concert will be Oct. 16 Shortly
24 at 4 p.m. in the Lenfest lg geparted
Center for Parents Week- 19 03%‘: partner
end. 20 Former comic
The University Chorus actor

22 Facilitated
was also affected by the 24 ..__ wemrger.

structuring of the music
‘epartment, the Women’s
'ioRis and Glee Club were
pped, and the Chamber
‘ oir formed. Student re-
ion to the decision has
- 11 mixed.

i‘ . y members of the elimination of the single- 25 Miamps county
‘I Club and Women’s sex groups. 26 Tribal group
‘ho '. were disappointed Anaddition of 30 mem- 28 S‘ ta” mdeﬁnne
i the decision to cancel bers to the University Cho- 32 Sigma, wea,
e s lngle-sex groups. rus brought the 60member 34 Prayer ending
“ , liked the women's choir to 90. 35 Young boy

36 Broadcasts

 

rho us and I will miss it,” Spice said this decision 37 Thin cracker
aid 1 unior Lolita Crabbe,a “will better serve the stu- 39 Old times
nemlber of last year's dents and me University 40 Landers or @1992 Tribune Media Services. inc.  
I 0 Bnis chorus. «By cm_ by combining freshmen 41 \Slt;t;ii:I;1r:|d All Rights Reserved
ing the Glee Club and and upperclassmen into 42 __ Spiemerg
omen’s Chonis, they’re one large mixed choir.” 44 Tv‘s former Last week's answers
tting a long-time tradi- The choral department 461l_"3“'Y —b 9 H
on that won’t ever be the decided that enlarging the 47 Rznfgce ;f:.: 10 P;’;,":g
. e.” University Chorus would crime 11 pm on
Students also Said they allow as many students as 48 Placelfor a 2 freight
‘ iilniiss the singie-sexper- Wssible ‘.°  iniwduced so Snpudtated pony l4gtaosFe(:i‘1l:rr1ts
7. ormances at choral perfor- ’ ' ’ to and °nJ°Y 51n8m8- 52 Bank employees 21 Gave
ances_ Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi “More people audi- 55 Char temporarily

tioned with more talent 56 Defense system 23 Mideast gulf

mike“ being ab1°‘° 8° Dr Gordon S Ice directs the Chamber choir for an u omln ertormance ' “r 1 25 c d r
o a concert and know that ' p pc 9 p than In years P389” Dl1’<‘;C- 53 ialelrficszry 26 C3973: J51
‘ can hear the women sing , . tor Courtney‘ Birch said. §0 Dies — 27 Singer Lutt
 dthen the men sing sepa- “There IS  better TCVCT     28  60
. ateb,” senior Stephanie Sauers said. experience.” highest possible artistic level.” musicianship and voice quality this 53 Fendgr mishap 29 ..___ Lucy”

“We have Southern Comfort and Junior Ellen Dean agreed. ‘‘I think The 25-member Chamber Choir year.” §4 Passover feast 30 Foals‘ mothers
ubilee but they the new choir is consists of both men and _ “I really eniov the size of the choir. 35 Arid 31 "East of,—"
ing different great because 1 women of all voice Ive never Sung In a Choir 80 large 32 F’°"°" ""°'

 

. ypes of music. I T ——————-—e g_et a chance to ranges — soprano. bsfore and atﬁr§t1WaSn¢rV°“S that 1 33?" 33 Zgbeevdfgnces 1°/'5/92
rked the serious he choral department srng wrth men alto, tenor and it would be difficult to learn the 2 Love god 38 Aid and —
iecesperformed d .d d th t I . this year. So far bass. music at_a quick pace, but so far 3 (psart 39 'ls'::1pesaemwho 49 Tree 54 M.
by ,t”he Glee eel e _ a_ en argmg iI'S 80_in8 Well,” To audition ?Y°’Y‘h‘“ghasb°§“ 3°f“‘3 gen’ 5 Warn 41 Contest so uniainieri _ 55 OfIl(er
lu . the Unlverslty Chm-us she said. for the group, irst-year mem e_r “res man 6 Guns a motor 43 High 51 Mideast nation 57 Native metal
H o w e v e r Professor of students must . Madeline White said. Our first 7 °W|n9 45 Poem 52 Walked 59 TV Tarzan.
mchokmmj would allow as many Music and have one year of concert was incredible, and 3 B''*""°'S 43 ""=**‘° °'°"' 53 “‘9“Wav R0“ -
lsiéfsi tskfiidhthey students as possible to §hamberG Cl'(1i0ll' W8_LL singing ex— thelchorush3:lno_troub’l,e
i e e c ange - irector or on perience. eaminz e pieces. _
to the Chamber Pe lnyrofluced to and en" Spice saidthede- Spice ‘has great 1 Pieces Heing  R    
' I . Joy singing. ‘ c}n1s1on_ to lcancel Ew;1pectt:t1g1rl1s_ for the suns.bi&t1he Ut:}- Morning Mag (Rock) — Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.
_ _ . Yezglli the 5m8 5'5“ ‘ﬁn Fdh 0}“ f "e‘-my ,°’“l5 d‘5 Jazz - Monday, 9 a.m.-l1a.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.—l1:30 a.m.
ms? ho_ :’na‘(’i’e1:(5)°ir5n $3: Eumegzgl lgggresees 3 ‘°“’ ° _3I[‘;'):’ erfsnc xv‘: AM _Ove_rture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-ll a.m.
3 ore, Bgcca thechoral prfor— TTIIJC Choirho. es tovisitGer- Mari); Rutter's Inspl-ration:-ll - Thursday’ 9 a'm'_l 1-am’; Monday’ 2 p’m''3p'm'
( Cord said n ‘ ‘ E: ‘ mances pe man Austria aid Switzerland Re uiein and Public Affairs ‘Monday mm“-gh Fnday’ 11 a'm'_1 1:30 am’
"l‘Vi(/:e’reabletodo   “The select S icb, said the iiiiiversit budget Van(i:e’sThe Oak Country - Monday through Fnday’ 12 Rm’-1:30 pm’
lcha enging mu- ‘9 choir allows us wlbuld tentatively fund o)i,ie-third of and The Ash 11:3'c'lc(e/lv‘:pdI-1T‘3esd$r,’ 2  Fnda); 8 pm’-11:30 pm‘
1 . . . . . . . '. - e es ay ou n y, p.m.- p.m.
§;cilIile‘f‘iTsPtl::’l3l:rslum'ty I’ve had to sing challengin andcontei'l)1p:1)(r)aI‘3j'lrfr§ieirsT(!:1 $11: Tblsll whlle me smdems would pay r u s will also P"I3.11'1f‘:)UIIjln21l‘IlelT-ls6nT):6I(l:f}.:3(ST Breakthrough Rock _ Monday mmugh Friday’ 3:30 p'm"5:30 pm‘
_ _ , _ . go“ v - . , _ _ Classical Showcase - Monday through Thursday, 6 p.m.-9 p.m.
in a small mixed chorus. It s a new said Spice. We can perform at the The Chamber Choir s pieces this Center on Oct. 23 at4 and 8 p.m. Th“-d Ear - Monday through Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.

 

/  _ r ,  H .. . ”  ‘‘ GREEKS&CLUBS
Rl:llRl‘.l\'ll‘.NrINVI‘.SllN(i . Art '
> 1 _ \.   RAISE A cooL

I  C  1870 Washington College Diploma sq oogw K! ;_
signed RE. Lee 'l":L-3; s'l"0€0"i“0RE‘IE{E' :1

Signaturesi MEMBERWHO CALLS! ljf

M31}; D53 R-E- Lee» Jr- No obligation. No cost. 3.

Fitz ugh Lee John Letcher You also CMFREE ;

M.Miley Edward Valentine HEAm,H(§NE RADIO :-

W&L Copperplate re-strike, hand-colored 5“5"°' °’""‘g 3

W&L and RE.Lee limited edition art 1-80f%932-0528. Ext. 65
Sculptures by Ron Tunison

George and Mary Washington pieces

ilﬁlllmﬂﬂkﬁ   —§‘*9—F'e “"‘ "
Billllilll  

4 East Washington Street Open Monday — Saturday  I   

Lexington, VA 24450 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
; I It, s
A   i  ea 

it Read the Phi. 

IF     w &: L UNIVERSITY THEATRE PRESENTS
it ~ EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF THE IMAGINARY INVALID  
THROUGH RETIREMENT. BY Mougm .

no-or-vconauvvss

v,:__u,v_-.-o-or-¢o-¢u

‘. '. an -an -.

 

K
. '-. '.- a'.,1'r.'a‘n'.'- '4'. '. '.

   
   

I

rs hink about su ortin ourself for At TIAA-CREE we not onl under- 
§ pp gy y L .
1 ‘H twenty-ﬁve, thirty years or longer stand the value of starting early, we K -I
3§ in retirement. It might be the greatest can help make it possible—witli flexible E E L:
‘g ﬁnancial test you'll ever face. Fortunately, retirement and tax-deferred annuity  L ~_;
E you have one valuable asset in your plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvestment I
g favor. Time. choices, and a record of personal F L 3;
§, Time to take advantage of tax-deferral. service that spans 75 years. E E _j
5° Time for your money to grow. Over a million people in education I:
Q 1
3 But starting early is key. Consider this: and research are already enrolled in S R 
 ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at America's largest retirement system. T 
Q age thirty, you can accumulate $192,53g* Find out how easy it is to join them. Call T Ij
 by the time you reach age sixty-ﬁve. today and learn how simple it is to put 
§ Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside yourself through retirement when you C  H 1‘-
: $227 a month to reach the same goal. have time and TIAA-CREF on your side. E  E :4’
Q S Start planning your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. N J  A V
§ A A . ‘ pr: 
*3 Ensuring the future T *3. T ; 3
g for those who shape it?" E 3. R T 
. & 9,.

Got   a Gripe? :’:.g..‘:.:d.:.::;:::::.:*::. vmrcmmonvow   
U“i"e‘S“Y Cent“ OCTOBER 22 24 26 & 27 at 8 p m
[ ’ O 0

Write to the Phi.::9.‘:.:3:;.‘:::‘:'::: 0CTOBER24&25at2p.m.

'v'b{§“rAN V-9.5-.

PAGE 6

' NEWS

 

Students visit
AIDS Quilt

At right, a panel of the
quilt commemorates
W&L alumnus Michael
Peppler, '74. Below,
visitors wander
among more than
20,000 panels, each
dedicated to a person
who has died of AIDS.

Photos by Patrick McDennott

By AMY YARCICH
Phi Staff Writer

have died of AIDS.

living with AIDS.

on “The Human Face of AIDS.”

Nine W&L students joined tens of thousands of
people in Washington, D.C., Saturday to view the AIDS
Quilt, a memorial to the more than 20,0()0 people who

The students are part of the new AIDS Education
Project begun on campus by junior Pat McDermott, who
was sparked into action by the movie “Common 'I'hreads,”
the story of the AIDS quilt. McDermott said he began
organizing the group last spring and got a very positive
response from students and alumni.

“People know how the disease is spread and they
know how to protect themselves, but the percentage of
people who practice safe sex is way too low,” McDermott
said. He said the major goal of the W&L AIDS Education
Project is to increase that percentage. The project’s other

aim is to heighten the level of compassion for people

McDermott said the group will plans AIDS aware-
ness activities during the year and will promote their goal
by distributing information and hosting speakers. Rob
Catrere, '72, a clinical psychologist, will speak Nov. 10

“The fact that no student has publicly announced that

 

he or she is HIV-positive does not mean we don’t have
HIV-positive students on campus,” said McDermott.

McDermott said the group also hopes to bring sec-
tions of the AIDS quilt to Lexington for display.

The quilt was first displayed in Washington, D.C., on
Oct. 11, 1987, and contained 8288 three-by-six-foot
cloth panels. On Saturday, the quilt covered 15 acres in
front of the Washington Monument and contained more
than 20,000 panels, each unique. While statistics coldly
indicate the havoc AIDS has wreaked, the quilt brings
the people who make up the statistics vividly to life.

“Visiting the quilt provides a perfect opportunity for
people to begin talk about the many difficult issues
surrounding HIV and AIDS,” according to booklets
distributed by The Names Project, the group respon-
sible for displaying the quilt.

Group to give business advice

By AMY YARCICH
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee students will
help local business with cash ﬂow prob-
lems in more ways than one, with a

new student groupoffering consulting ‘

services to local businesses.

Senior Charles Honey founded Vol-
unteer Student Consulting, a group
comprised mostly of business, eco-
nomic, and accounting majors. The
group will consult clients on a project
basis, with a team of qualified students
working on each project.

“I came up with the idea last Janu-
ary,’ ’ Honey said. “The idea was to
break down some of the barriers be-
tween students and local businesses as
well as to give some of what we learned
at W&L back to the community. It also
offer students to get away from class-
room theory into the real-life problems
that confront small. businesses.’ ’

seniors,”

I I
cludiotromcs
AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
TOSHIBA MARAN‘l'Z
KEF CWD
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA ‘
° SPEAKERTRADE UP PROGRAM

° BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
' CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
7' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
’ MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden 8: Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

Wa nted
Attractive VMI cadet seeks SWF
for escort to Biggest Party in
country (Ring Figure). Must be
attractive and able to cary on an
intelligent conversation. Must
have a formal white dress. For
more info., call 463-9513

after 6 p.m. and ask for CRAFT.

Have
iiultm
riolgiimg
the
Gap

The group will work closely with
clients to deal with problems ranging
from cash ﬂow to budgeting. The group
currently has a very small membership,
but is to looking to grow in the coming
months.

‘P ‘ ‘The group is currently made up of
a handful of I . I I , I

Honey said.
“But we’ll
be having a
sign-up in
the coming
weeks look-
ing to re-
cruit some
sopho-
mores, jun-
iors and
more se-
niors.”
Honey has worked with Lexington
Downtown Development Association
Executive Director Diane Herrick and

 

Honey

Assistant Professor of Administration
Kipling Pirkle to bring the group to-
gether.

‘ ‘We are very pleased to be working
with the students,’ ’ Herrick said. ‘ ‘The
program will not only benefit local
businesses, but will give the students
the hands-on experience to improve
their business skills in the downtown
community.”

Members of the Lexington business
community will serve on an advisory
board to the VSC. Among others, the
membership will include Crestar Bank
president Frank E. Correll and David
Hawkins of Raetz & Hawkins Certi-
lied Public Accountants.

Honey believes that both students
and the community will benefit from
the VSC’s work.

‘ ‘The group has been well received
by everyone,” Honey said. “The stu-
dents are also excited about doing some-
thing tangible. We can learn a lot from
these small businesses.”

BUY ONE PIZZA

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

 

delivered hot and last to your door.

© 1989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

 

01989 Plzza Hut. Inc.

Call Us
an d Keep
Cramming.

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings,

Pizza Hut Delivery . . . Great taste delivered!

I"""""""""""""""""""""'1

Student Special

2 pizzas for the price of 1

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS OR DISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY
WITH COLLEGE ID

: Call: 463-7000

I Offer expires l2-I8-92

Our driver: carry no more than $20.

I-Iiut.

Llmibd deivety area.

 

 

l/20 cant cash roderrptlon valued

   

FCC to get its own money’ ,

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Contributing Writer

Soon the Freshman Orientation
Commitee won’t have to go begging
for money anymore.

Associate Dean of Students for
Freshmen Dennis Manning saidhe will
make FOC part of the university’s regu-
lar budget, instead of having to get bits
and pieces of its budget from different
places.

Co—chair Phil McKoy said FOC has
traditionally relied on the Executive
Committee, the Dean of Students and
the Associate‘ Dean of Students for
Freshmen for funding .

“Money shouldn’t have to come
from EC. FOC should have a perma-
nent account under the school with
control by the dean of freshmen,”
McKoy said.

Manning said the money he has
given the FOC in the past comes out of
the budget for the freshman dorms.

“Basically FOC takes up all the

J money we could use for dorm activities
during the year,” Manning said.

Expenditures for FOC this year in-
cluded t-shirts, the Freshman Record,
rental costs of a bowling alley and
miniature golf course, a band on Pizza
Night, transportation, entertainment
during the Adopt-A-Freshman dinner
and Playfair, a professional group that
leads ice-breaker games.

The FOC spent $12,600 on orienta-
tion this year.

Last year, FOC received $500 from
the EC. This year, the co-chairs peti-

Hearing board members named

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Contributing Writer

Juniors Laura Voeckel and Justin
Bakule were appointed by the Execu-
tive Committee to serve on the new
Student-Faculty Hearing Board.

The SFHB hears and adjudicates
complaints of sexual misconduct that
involve students at Washington and
Lee. The board is made up of four
students and four faculty members.
Voeckel and Bakule join seniors
Romana Franks and Michael Bergin.

Faculty members are Associate Pro-
fessor of Romance Languages Cecile
West—Settle, Professor of Law Brian
Murchison, Professor of Art History
Pamela Simpson, and Professor of

Phi Delt, KAon social probation

El PHI DELT, from page 1

asked not to be identified.

Eddings agreed.

“The severity of the punishment is
stemming from the Hill,” he said. “Right
now they ‘are trying to appease Buddy
[Atkins].”

Eddings said the chapter has cre-
ated new rules for when things are
broken and hopes that this punishment
will put an end to damage at Phi Delt.

“What the house corporation has

The Ring-tum Phi, October 15, 199 I

« FOC Co-chairs Teresa Williams and Robert Wilson prepare for I
this year's freshman orientation.

tioned the EC to cover the $13,000 cost
of orientation, but only received $2,000.
“The EC said they didn’t want to
give us the full amount because they
didn’t want the university to believe
the FOC had become a part of SAB,”
FOC Co—chair Carlin Jones said.
Although a university account has
been established and an increase in
funding from the EC has been pro-
vided, Manning is still in the process of
creating a separate line item for the
FOC budgeting process, but to do so he

Chemistry William Watt.

Voekel is a dorm counselor and has
led freshman date-rape seminars.

‘ ‘I realize [sexual assault] is a major
problem on this campus, and it is im-
portant that it is dealt with in a respon-
sible way,” she said.

Voekel said she considers herself a
good listener and hopes to be able to be
impartial as a board member.

Bakule said he felt the role of the
committee was not only to ajudicate
cases of sexual misconduct but to edu-
cate students about sexual assault on
campus.

“The key for all of us is bringing
fairness [to the board],’ ’ he said. Bakule
also serves as adorrn counselor and has
led a date rape seminar.

The board was formed last spring

done is in the best interest of the house
and hopefully we can learn from it,”
Eddings said. “We ’renot all heathens .”

Meanwhile, KA will also be out of
commission socially for the rest of fall
term. <

KA President Hank Huff said the
fratemity’s national office put the W&L
chapter on social probation for violat-
ing alcohol policy on Sept. 26.

Huff said KA did not card people
coming to a party and served alcohol
bought with chapter funds on the Sat-

 
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
    
  
   
  
 
 
    
   
 
   
  
  

C

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-t I P

must receive approval from the Boar
of Trustees.

“I think FOC has grown in size and ‘
scope to warrant funding,” Manging»
said. “It provides a meaningful experi- l
ence for upperclassmen during the year.
and clearly beneﬁts the freshmen.”

McKoy said orientation is too im-
portant to skimp on.

“We’re trying to orient one-fourth
of the student body to W&L tradit' n,’
McKoy said. “We shouldn’t hold ck.
at all [financially].”

after the dissolution of the ConfiRen-
tial Review Committee, which wa
previously responsible for cases of
physical as well as verbal assault. The‘
SFHB does not have the authority t‘
hear verbal assault cases. ‘I,
Sexual misconduct is defined as ‘ ‘in- I
appropriate physical conduct or threa ._
of a physical nature" by the Statement
on Personal Conduct published by the»
Dean of Students Office. ;
Students who believe they are vic-I
tims of sexual misconduct can bring“
their complaints to Associate Dean of
Students Anece McCloud, who ac% as”
a mediator in all cases. Both parties,
involved discuss their complaint with
McCloud, and if the case cannot be"
resolved, the case is brought before,the_
SFHB. ' 

D

urday after Tear Night, when represen-
tatives of the national organization
came to inspect the party. KA’s na-
tional organization is headquartered in
Lexington. O
Huff said though the chapter is on
social probation, it will be allowed to
hold a cocktail party on Parents Week-
end and, with good behavior, might be '
allowed to hold a Christmas party.
Stephen Russell, KA national com-
munication director, would not com-
ment on the chapter’s probation.

 

    
  

 

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

  

A Full Year

Galapagos

ADOPTION OPTION
Tim and Vicki wish to share our home with an infant.
We have college degrees; and we both work in education
Our hobbies are music, golf, and church activities.

If you wish to talk with us, please call

1-800-296-2367
///////////////////////////////7///////////////////

otppotgoggo"

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

     
       
      
          
      

// // A

     
  

 
 

     

(703) 463-5988

     
 

///////////////////////////////////////
Germany

STUDY ABROAD

General Information Meeting

On

Tuesday, October 20

at

7 P.M.

In

A Spring Term,
A Semester, or

Room 114 University Center

OOOCampus Reps Wanted0OO
HEATWAVE VACATIONS
SPRING BREAK 1993
The best rates & the biggest
commissions. For more Informatitii,
Call 800-395-WAVE

Xcy
could own '2
thbspoce.
Call 463-858 1. _

 
 
    

   
 

 

England

    
       
     
    

  

 
 

Financial
i Aid
Available

      
          
 

   
      

‘I

he Ring-rum Phi, October 15, 1992

Water polo has rough week

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
, Phi Staff Writer

The W&L water polo team moves
into this Friday's contest with arch-
irival Richmond after completing a dis-
appointing two week stretch.
Over the past 8 games, W&L has
w only twice.
- t weekend's tournament at the
Java] Academy yielded a 1-3 mark,
‘I. ropping the team to 9-9 for the year.
During the eight games, W&L faced
* 1 )me of the East Coast’s top teams. In
th e toumament-opener, the Generals
w  pitted against Slippery Rock—
th 2 o.1teamontheEastCoast(ranked
N . 10 in the nation).
Slippery Rock had beaten W&L 19-
3 e week before. The Generals lost
the rematch, but behind the efforts of
sop omore Derek DeVries, the team
do bled their previous output, falling
18 ’.
The Generals rebounded with a 16-
10 win over Queens. Points leader
junior Greg Golub blasted a season-
high 6 goals by the Queens keeper,
which proved to be the margin of vic-

tory in the team’s second win over
Queens this season.

Navy proved to be too much for
W&L in the tearn’s third match of the
weekend, stopping the Generals 15-3.

The 11-9 overtime loss to Johns

Hopkins in the final game of the week- I

end was much more disquieting.

“The Hopkins game was frustrating
for us. We weren’t sharp and I wasn’t
happy with the rotations Ihad created,”
said head coach Page Remillard. “I
don’t think we went into the game with
the right frame of mind. All that's his-
tory, that was a game we shouldn't
have lost.” .

Despite the team’s apparent rever-
sal in fortunes, Remillard is quick to
point out that the mistakes that have
resulted in the closer losses are correct-
able.

“We’re not as disciplined as we’d
like to be, because we’re not used to
playing with each other. We’re very
young. We will improve with these
games under our belt.”

In addition to the intangible matura-
tion that needs to occur as the season
progresses, the team has also showed a
weakness in its man down play.

“We're not getting the job done on
either side [of man advantages.] We’re
not responding,” said Remillard.
“We’re not putting the ball into the
cage, and we ’re not getting good shots
on goal.”

W&L has only converted 39% of its
man up advantages, their opponents
have been successful 43% of the time.

One of W&L’s “Freshmen to
Watch,” Rich Cober, said the team has
to develop better chemistry.

“All of us are going to have to come
together. We really don't have a domi-
nant scorer, so we’re going to have to
play better as a team so we can get
better scoring chances and improve
our defense.”

With more experience and a week
to iron out the problems that arose over
the weekend in Amiapolis, W&L will
attempt to level their season series with
Richmond at two.

The last time these two met, Rich-
mond netted three goals in the ﬁnal
three minutes to down W&L at Cy
Twombly Pool 14-13.

W&L looks for a measure of re-
venge in front of the home crowd Fri-
day at 7 pm.

.4.

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Asuccessfulteam cannotbe mea-
s ed only by its victories.

Accordingly, the women’s soc-

‘cer team’s 2-0 home loss to
Gettysburg last Saturday pleased
head coach Janine Hathom.

“We strung together a good 9U
minutes and played better than we

ve in a while,” she said.

Although the loss stretched their
losing streak to seven games, the
Generals stayed with Gettysburg for
most of the game.

“We lost another game, but we
lostbetter," said Hathom. “We made
them beat us. We made one small
nﬂstake and they took advantage.”

After shutting out Gettysburg’s
potent attack in the first half, the
visitors found the back of the net in

. the second.

“It came down to a defensive
miscue on the first [goal],’’ said
Ihthom, “but their second goal was
just beautiful‘.

“Gettysburg probably didn't real-
ize how competitive we can be,” said
Hathom. “It helped that they underes-
timated us.

“Since we ’re in such a rut it all gets
magniﬁed and seems longer and greater
than normal. We just need to become
more consistent. The kids are just bust-
ing and I can’t ask them to do much
more.”

The hard times have forced this
team to practice harder than any team
Hathom has coached in her six years at
W&L.

“It’s almost a blessing because
they’re working harder and setting a
precedent,” she said. “We’ve learned
an incredible amount and will see it
down the road.”

The Generals travel the roads of
North Carolina this weekend, playing
at Old Dominion Athletic Conference
foe Guilford and a powerful Methodist
squad.

The Generals should beat Guilford
and the Methodist game will be ex-
tremely challenging, according to
Hathom.

“Methodist isn’t having a good

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum.Phi
Senior Susan Moseley prepares for a colllson with a player from Gettysburg.

\'Nomen,’s soccer loses
in spite of improvements

year,” she said. “They'll be better
than us, but we can keep it close.”

The team rounds out its season
withLynchburgand Messiah, games
that W&L should win.

“Out of the next four games, we
have the possibility to win three,”
said Hathom. “I think this will be a
good trip for us and we will be on
our way to Lynchburg, Messiah,
and the [ODAC] tournament.”

Hathom looks forward to the
tournament quarterﬁnals on Oct. 28.

“We could be overlooked and
surprise people. I really like this
team and I'll say it until I’m blue in
the face.”

W 8: L UNIVERSITY LENFEST SERIES PRESENTS

-MARTHA GRAHAM II

Tickets available NOW!

§

- S.

Hams -rer

AN  IVERSARYSAIE

SAVE $1.00 PER LB.
40 - 50 COUNT

MEDIUM

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS
GRADE "A" - BONELESS

CHICKEN
BREIISI'...............

BONELESS

Chickﬁn Bf;

mm are MEA7

LIMIT 3

ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

‘REDUCED!

: China“,
T
14 v ‘cg: ‘u

ton on.

WITH

LB.  

MIX OR MATCH
ALL VARIETIES
APPLES

0 RED/ GOLDEN DELICIOUS
- GRANNY SMITH
0 GALA
0 ROME
0 JONATHAN
0 MCINTOSH
0 CORTLAND
0 EMPIRE
0 IDA RED
0 GREENING
0 STAYMAN
\ _: ‘ gs ..

LB

4

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 LITE .~

REDUCED
PRICE

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

STUDENT'S

WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER

COURTESY CARD.

HBIIISTGGIBI

roua. NAME
YOUR ADDRESS
YOUR cmr. s'r,m-;
x/x or/or/or
1111111

11111

IT ALLOWS YOU TO
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER 134
HARRIS TEETER
LOCATIONS IN
GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00

coupon AND SAVE. A

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON

r_________

$1.00 OFF:

ANY $3.00 on MORE I
PURCHASE in awe
smrooo DEPARTMENT I

THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I

LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I
OFFER GOOD OCT. I4 THRU OCT. 20, I992

COUPON smrooo I
I

ALUE
M ........(9_,

Prices Effective Thrau

Prices In This Ad Eitective Wednesday October I4 Through u
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold

IN THE DELI-BAKERY

GLAZED
DONUTS... ............................ ..DOZ.

SELECTED VARIETIES
HEALTHY CHOICE

SOUPS ................................... .. l5 oz.

HUNTER FARMS
ORANGE

129

I99
JUICE ............................................. ..GAl.
56 50. FT.

I/JXIPER TOWELS ...... ..ROll O59

BUY FROM THE DELI-BAKERY
our LB. or runxsv smsr

AT REGULAR PRICE AND GET ONE LB.

I
I
' FREE

[69

Th’ c J
I N9i'Tsei’z‘é§’.'r’" ufll.

c
_a  l>7;'§P\7’i's'ic ..

l Perf (.4;
P c losgocar T0“ I’?

I c .583; -.-.
I4 Thru Oct r 20,
I992.

N % . .: I
I  llamsreerer
L._ __

VALUABLE 30¢ COUPON
6 PACK - 12 oz. com:

___.._‘9___

Per F_o ._, P?aLIP\??il COUPON
r I

Pu c 3:3‘ I0,“
N Oée gtolggr

PLU 2121

I 4445 GROCERY

I4 IIwu'%gl« .... 20,
I CCTIJITOANI
VALUE
30¢

L :_ _ _ _ _

h October 20, I 992
esday, October 20 I992. In Lexington Stores
To Dealers. We Glodly Accept Federal rood stamps.

L

  

Last Week:

Football- W&L 27,Davidson 12 (2-2)
WP- Johns Ho kins11,W&L 9(OT) (9-9)
MSoc— R-MC ,W&L 0 (4-6)

WSoc- Get sburg 2,W&L 0 (2-8)

VB- W&L ,Lynch. 1 (12-11)

CC- (M)2nd to Catho1ic;(W) 2nd at D.C.

PAGE 8

@112 iﬁiiig-mm Eiﬁlti

SPORTS

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

 aw9s?hESC 10/17 1:30

WP- Richmond 10/17 7:00
MSoc— Va.Wesle an 10/ 17 1°00

 

WSoc- at Guil. 1 /17;at Methodist 10/18 r.

VB- E&H 10 15 5:00
CC- at D IH tate Meet 10.17
WTen- at MWC 10/17

OCTOBER 15, 1992

Generals maul Fighting Wildcats, 27-12

MacLane sets offensive school record; Wagne

By SEAN O’RoURI<E
Phi Sports Editor

Coaches constantly preach to their players about fast

' starts, and taking the early momentum.

Head football coach Gary Fallon is no exception.

He believes momentum and conﬁdence are the two
major aspects that determine wins and losses.

Heading into their fourth game against the Davidson
Fighting Wildcats, the Generals had taken Fallon’s preach-
ing to heart and come up with big turnovers the first or
second time an opposing offense handled the ball.

You knew at some point that streak would end.

Davidson quarterback, Richard Howell ended the Gen-
erals’ string of good fortune in about 10 seconds.

Davidson received the opening kick off and returned the
ball to their own 34 yard line.

Howell received the play from the sideline, came under
center and called out the signals.

The ball was snapped and Howell took it down the line
of scrimmage, faked a pitch to the running back, and kept it
himself. He took off over the right tackle.

See ya!

Sixty-six yards later the Wildcats had a six to nothing
lead. Howell just outran everyone to the end zone. Generals
comer back Jon Wagner seemed to have a good angle on
him, but Howell was able to outrun Wagner’s reach.

The extra point failed, and the score remained the same.

“My first thought was to have the officials blow the
whistle to wake our kids up,” said Fallon. “Then Itold the
kids to keep their poise, don’t get rattled.”

The key word for the Generals’ offense in the first quarter
was turnover.

W&L gave the ball away three times, twice in their own
end of the field.

Fallon said he was getting frustrated because the offense
was stopping themselves. ,

“We were defeating ourselves early on,” said Fallon.
“Our first three possessions: fumble, interception and an-
other interception, and two of them were in our end of the
field.”

The defense stopped the Wildcats each time, and in fact,
Davidson got negative yards out of the three possessions off
the turnovers.

“Our D[efense] did a real fine job. They met the chal-
lenge and came through,” said Fallon.

The defense would also turn the game around.

On the Wildcats’ fourth series of the first quarter, Howell
tried to hit stand-out wide receiver Dan Lamar on a ten-yard
out pattern. But Wagner read the play perfectly and ripped
it out of I.arnar’s hands and took off down the sideline.

He trotted into the end zone, untouched, for a 49-yard
touchdown. However, Marc Newman hit the left up-right on
the extra point, so the score remained tied at six.

The touchdown shifted the momentum in the Generals’
favor.

“Wagner's interception made it even,” said Fallon.

For Wagner, it was a much-needed boost after a tough
day against Randolph-Macon.

“It felt good,”said Wagner. “I saw the wide receiver slow
his feet and cut for the outside. I was in the right place-at the
right time.” -

From there on out, both the offense and defense played
excellent football.

Senior tri-captain Phil Spears sacked Howell on the next
series and forced a fumble. Jason Chartrand pounced on it at
the Davidson 40. 1

One play later, Geren Steiner hit Michael MacLane
along the line of scrimmage and he took off down the left
sideline. William Propst provided the key block, and
MacLane scored just before the end of the first quarter.

Newman hit the extra point, and the Generals led 13 to
six.
By the end of the first half the score was 13 to nine.
W&L struck first in a well-played third quarter.

The Generals had a first and 10 at their own 40. Steiner,
who had some problems hitting receivers for much of the
day, made up for it on a slant pass to Propst.

Steiner threw a rope to Propst between two defenders and
Propst did the rest. Sixty yards later, the Generals led 20 to
nine.

“He[Steiner] shows ﬂashes sometimes,” said Fallon.
“He threw into double coverage and over threw some
receivers. Then he threads the needle to Propst, and the pass
to Maclane was a check off by him at the line of scrimmage.

“We need the production out of the position.”

The defense led the way for the Generals. They only
allowed two field goals after Howel1’s touchdown run.

Linebacker Lyle Smith said the way the defense played
on Saturday gives them a lot of confidence for later games.

“We definitely gained a lot of confidence. The defensive
secondary played excellent, and they will help us down the
road.”

Geren Steiner hands off to Michael MacLane during the game against Emory 8r Henry. That was‘ A

I-purpose yards. He accomplished the same ieat against centre

Lane gets a shot
O

MacLane's first gamewlth more 200 at
and Davidson. One more and he will break the career record in a single season. Mac
at the record aginst the Hampden-Sydney Tigers this Saturday.

The ﬁnal highlight of the game came with about a

minute-and-a-half left.

W&L was at the Davidson 25 and just trying to rim out
the clock. Steiner handed the ball off to MacLane for a rim

up the middle.

MacLane hit the line and did a 360 to avoid the first two
tacklers, he then made a nice cut to his right to avoid four
more, and sprinted the final 17 yards for another touchdown.

It was a Barry Sanders-like rim.

That closed out the scoring, making the ﬁnal 27 to 12.
MacLane finished the day with 23 carries for 152 yards;

r’s interception for TDkeys comeback

\-at

of the Week honors.

Satirrday.

afford to.”

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

three catches for 59 yards. It was the third time he had gaine -
more than 200 all-purpose yards, which is a season record,
and ties the career record held by Stewart Atkinson.
MacLane's efforts earned him the ODAC Offensive Player

Despite the good play after the first quarter, Fallon giys
the team still makes too many mistakes and that they will
have to play better against a team like Hampden-S ydney this

“A good team can’t make many mistakes. They can’t‘

     
    
   
  
    
   
  

By KEmi GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

It’s true-youcan’tgo home again.

Or maybe you just shouldn’t.

Not if you play for the Washing-
ton and Lee men's soccer team.

With a 1-0 loss to Randolph-
Macon College, Tuesday, the team
continued to endure the “Lexington
jinx.” The Generals have not won at
home since last year.

Washington and Lee played the
Yellow Jackets evenly for much of
the game, but Randolph-Macon net-
ted the lone goal with l6miriutes left
in the second half.

The loss dropped the Generals’

Generals are 2-3 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference with three confer-
ence games remaining.

Randolph-Macon entered the game
9-3-1 on the season, but had lost their
last two, each by a 1-0 score.

The Yellow Jackets controlled the
early part of play, keeping the ball
mostly in the Generals’ half of the
field.

Randolph-Macon couldn’tpenetrate
the strong W&L defense, though, and
eventually the Generals got their poise
and threatened the R-MC net a few
times, but the teams finished the first
45 minutes of play scoreless.

W&L got a scare midway through
the first half when a loose ball was

Steinbrook. It hit the corner of the goal
post and bounced right back to
Steinbrook, inches from the goal-line
and withaYellow Jackets player stand-
ing right on the door step.

The teams played an even second
half with the ball most often around
midfield and only nine shots fired on
goal.

Senior sweeper-back Greg Wil-
liams,' whose two goals this season
have doubled his career total, nearly
redirected a long cross toward the Yel-
low Jackets’ goal, but had it deﬂected
away.

Several oppommitiespassed by both
squads until, at 74:17 of the game,
Randolph-Macon scored from 15 yards

The loss was the second straight
one-goal loss for the Generals.

Last season,
W&L went 5-
2-1 at the Lib-
erty Hall Fields,
outscoring their
opponents 15-8.

In their three
home contests
in 1992, the
Generals have
been outscored
by an astound-
ing 10-3.

Generals’ head coach Rolf Piranian
dismisses the idea of a home ﬁeld dis-
advantage, or “Lexington jinx.”

Men’s soccer team suffers through ‘Lexington jinx’

A.

O I

 

 

away,” said Piranian.

The Generals’ scoring deﬁciency,
he said, is definitely a problem that has
to be overcome.

In eight out of their ten games, the
Generals have been held to two goals
or less.

“Our best offensive threat [Tues-
day] was our sweeper-back,” said
Piranian. “That's pretty sad.”

The team's defense might as well
expand its territory a little since they
have done a solid job in their own end
of the field

Since a 3-0 loss to Bethany College
five games ago, W&L has yielded only
four goals.

Unfortunately, the opposing de-

lowing the Generals an average of 3

just 1.11 goals per game.

“It seems we can’t winunless we
shut someone out,” Piranian said.

W&L plays its ﬁnal three regiﬁ
lar season games in Lexington ver-
sus ODAC foes.

This Saturday, W&L will host
the two-time defending ODAC
champions, Virginia Wesleyan.

Piranian said that the Marlins
are a much better team than th!
Randolph-Macon squad that beat
the Generals Tuesday.

However, Wednesday, the Mar-
lins lost to Hampden-Sydney Col-
lege, 2-1.

“This year, who knows what can

    
  
  
 
  

  

 
   

 

record to 4-6, and 0-3 at home. The knocked past goaltender Mike out. “It doesn’t matter if we’re home or fenses have been just as effective, al- happen,” said Piranian. O.
, ‘ --u--¢—u'n—-n-~----3:-n--1

Do You Want VISA 8r MasterCard Credit Cards? : STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLAliTATl0il.FL 33318 I $§%si§§]5IEI2E;§$yg:b:L&g1;3
I. I‘ h d U ' lndi 'dualsandStudentOrganizaIions
....,,.... ‘:2;.i°.:..°.1*:...r.:.“.::.:..:.r..":°::.:.°::s;‘:.::c.°.::: . Y ES! nwanmsa-misrsacann-omen . warzzrmmotsrrmcrrrir,
credit cards.."ln your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I cards Endosed nnd 95 which is 100% mfundabie um; I call I11enatior1‘sle1dcr.lntcr-Carnpos

' CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN Er-:noREI . appmved ,mmed,a,e,y_ . j_ Programs 1-8003276013

visAe and Masiercardo the credit cards you I I '5 Students 0,. Orgamzations

Ease“ an§'1‘It3cr:‘Eg?:-1:LIi2TON—l§N§l'-E‘l:'[fA’iAN’I’wrI:‘;:rN: : NAME A : promote our Florida Spring

EMERGENCY (‘.'iSH-TICKETS--RESTAURANTS— ' ADDRESS ' packages. Earn MONEY and
HorrEi.s—Mo'ri-:i.s—c.As-CAR RENTALS— FREE [rips organize sman gr

' -
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR cREDrr RATING! : CITY » STATE _ZIP I Large groups. Call Campus
‘mgeﬂ , PHONE S.S.* . Marketing. 800-423-5264
E 0 ' 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
G“ .s“_'¢;‘=V£. :0 (Jedi: _ ' : SIGNATURE : r‘ " "
*‘:.*.'.':««=::.=- . ° ‘*°"' *’ "°°°“*- . W  . I
°‘ " “”"°‘“‘ “"s°"""Y 3“°"‘“‘°°“ 5° I 5°"'°=° ”°°‘-""'°'* 100% GUARANTEED! | I ‘
I ._ ____________I L -

       
      
  
  
   
 
     
     

   
    
  
       
   
 
 

SENIORS

Do you want to work in any of these cities?

Washington Philadelphia
New York San Francisco

THE OFFICE oF CAREER PLANNING
AND PLACEMENT
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
INvITEs YOU To ATTEND THE

K Financial Aid for Spring
Term Abroad Programs

 

Chicago
Then you need to meet this important deadline:
Resumes due in the CDP Oﬂ‘ice before
4:00 p.m. on Friday Oct 23.
To review company descriptions and learn
about submitting resumes, come to the
Career Development and Placement Office

The Selective Liberal Arts Consortium (SLAC)

 
 

NINTH ANNUAL
MINORITY CAREER DAY:

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, I992
OMNI HOTEL ~
DOWNTOWN CHARLOTTESVILLE

1992-93 financial aid form must
be on file in the financial aid office
to receive financial aid for Spring
term abroad.

  
   
  

 

JOB FAIRS or 4 ‘
Chicago - January 4 (M) — 23 organizations
Washington - January 5 (T) — 24 organizations . . . . .
New York - January 6-7 (W—Th) - 31 organizations PI°l0T1ty dCaCI11I1€ fO1' submitting
San Francisco - January 11 (M) — 13 organizations ' '
Philadelphia — January 13 (W) — 18 organizations  for asslstance ls NOV’ 2’  I

MEET I40 EMPLOYERS FROM ACROSS THE COUNTRY.

JOIN MINORITY STUDENTS FROM 50 COLLEGES AND ,
UNIVERSITIES IN VIRGINIA AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. '

 
      
   

Any questions — Contact
the Financial Aid Office

REGISTER THROUGH YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OR
CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE.

BRING MULTIPLE COPIES OF YOUR RESUME!

   

K J

 

 

