 

‘THE UtllVlT;i’r£3~l:”Y LIBRARY
WASlli-l\lt’sTt’7ivi   t.tt~tlv‘<':3%t‘t"r"

  

   
 

U112 iling-tum lﬂlti

 

VOLUME 92, NO. 24‘

VRBsmw
with vote  
counﬂng

By Thomas Hespos
Phi News Editor

It has been five weeks since
Washington & Lee undergradu-
ates voted on a proposed set of
revisions to the Student Body
Constitution, but the ballots have
yet to be counted.

.¢W&L’s Voting Regulations
Board, the organization respon-
sible for counting the votes on
the Constitutional Referendum,
was originally expected to de-
liver a vote total at the Monday,
April 19 meeting of the Execu-
tiﬂe Committee.

At Monday’s EC meeting, EC
President Josh MacFarland de-
scribed the VRB as “being slow
and Spring Term-like” in per-
forming their duties. .

VRB President John Refo at-
trﬁmtes the VRB ’s slow pace to a
delay in delivery of ballots from
the law schoolballot boxes. Refo
said rather than counting the un-
dergraduate and law school votes
separately, the VRB “wanted to
count all of them at the same
t1 6."

The undergraduates voted on
the constitutionl referendum
March 22. Student Bar Associa-
tion President Amy Balfour said
she turned in the votes to the EC
office on time.Balfour said she
t ed the votes in on the Sunday
0 Monday after the undergradu-
ate spring break.

MacFarland said the VRB is
not required to turn in their vote
count by a specific day. He said
the deadline was “sort of nebu-
lo s.”

“I am 99 percent sure they
will be here next week,” said
MacFarland at Monday’s EC
meeting.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A Sight Few Have Seen

   

Photo By Fran Kefalas, The Ring-tum Phi

Many W&L students complain about never seeing the horses at Foxfield. But
the few lucky students that did were treated to an afternoon of good racing in

addition to taking in the warm weather and enjoying the tailgating parties.

Gates, Strossen to debate

By MIC]-IAEL HEWLETI
Phi Staff Writer

Exactly one year after the Los Angeles riots,
former Los An geles Chief of Police Darrryl Gates
and National President of the American Civil
Liberties Union Nadine Strossen will debate at
Washington and Lee Thursday.

The American Civil Liberties Union, Black
Law Student Association, and the Federalist are
sponsoring the debate which will be held at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel.

Gates and Strossen were chosen to debate at
W&L because of their distinct views.

“Each brings starkly different perspectives to
the issues of law and order, the causes that led to
the Los Angeles riots, and the way the Los Angeles
riots were handled,” said Andrew Schneider, presi-
dent of W&L’s ACLU chapter.

Schneider had a particular reason in mind when
he chose Gates for the debate.

“The purpose of bringing Darryl Gates was to

attract a large portion of the school that is ultra-
conservative to be exposed to the viewpoint of the
ACLU,” said Schneider.

Freshman Caroline Connolly agrees.

“I think that having the ACLU president here
will give students a different perspective that they
might not normally be accustomed to,” said
Connolly, “but personally I haven‘t seen Darryl
Gates, tell the truth, yet so I don’t see why he would
change his story now.”

President of the Black Law Student Association
Laura Anderson said the debate is important.

‘‘I think it’s important ifa group has the oppor-
tunity to bring all kinds of speakers regardless of
their political affiliation or stances on various
issues for the discourse,” said Anderson.

Schneider still hopes that the debate will raise
consciousness on the campus.

“To see a debate like this with a high profile
figure in last year’s riots will hopefully make
people care about the problems of racism and the
problems of police brutality in our nation ’s cities,”
he said.

‘Assaults scare UVa.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

April 29, 1993

IFC fine tunes
Fall rush rules

By ANDRFA COBRIN
AND MELISSA CURTIS
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

Washington and Lee’s
Interfraternity Council voted
unanimously Wednesday to
adopt a new rush plan for fall
1993.

The plan includes: pushing
the start of rush back a week,
extending casual contact to in-
clude Freshmen Orientation
‘week, 16 mandatory open houses
and a nish advisor system.

IFC president Curt Smith said
the new plan will be easier on the
freshmen going through rush.

“The main things were that
we wanted to make it easier on
freshmen when they first come
in,” Smith said. “[The new plan]
will give them more time to get
used to the school before they
jump into rush.”

IFC must vote two times to
change their constitution. Smith
said they voted on the proposal in
pieces last semester before vot-
ing on the entire plan Wednes-
day.

Smith said that the new plan
removes some of the ambiguity
from rush violations. He said
most of the problems last year
were associated with the period
before rush actually began. By
extending casual contact on the
hill and around town, there will
be fewer opportunities for that to
happen.

“It’s hard to ask upperclass-
men, regardless of whether
they’re in a fraternity, to not talk
to freshmen in a social setting
when the freshmen are trying to

become acclamated to the
school,” said Smith.

Fines for rush violations will
be $1500 for the first violation,
$2000 and two weeks of social
probation for the second viola-
tion and $2500 and a semester of
social probation for the third vio-
lation.

The new plan also requires
freshmen to go to open house at
all 16 fraternities.

“This way we’ll make sure
every fraternity gets a fair look,”
Smith said.

The IFC will
help enforce this
policy with the help
of rush advisors.
Each hall of fresh-
men men will be as-
signed to a rush ad-
visor who will es-
cort them to the
open houses and
meet with them
once a week. The
advisers will not be allowed to
discuss theirhouse with the fresh-
men, but they will be allowed to
attend rush parties. In order to
keep the fraternities accountable,
freshmen will be required to sign
in at parties and check out when
they leave.

Part of the original rush pro-
posal that was abandoned last
semester was the idea of a cap on
the size of the pledge classes.
Smith said he thinks thenew rush
plan will help alleviate the prob-
lem of uneven numbers in pledge
classes. Smith said a main cause
of the problem was that both
freshmen and upperelassmen felt
rushed into making a decision.

Leroy C. “Buddy ”Atkins,

Movie causes campus

 

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs, said he thinks the
fraternities need to decide what
is a proper pledge class size and
work toward more “interfratemal
spirit so everybody survives and
does well.”

“There is a big fear among the
students that we'll have a homo-
geneous fraternity system,”
Atkins said. “When there ends
up being chapters with 80 guys
or more, that’s when you lose the
diversity.”

A n o t h e r
change for the fra-
ternities next year
will start when
rush is over. All
freshmen may
only participate in
“chapter activi-
ties” and not
“pledge activites”
for the Fall term.

F r e s h m a n

‘ pledges may at-
tend a chapter meeting, not a
pledge meeting; they may help
with house cleanp-ups on Satur-
day and Sunday mornings as long
as there is an equal number of
upperelassmen participating; and
they may only sober drive once a
month.

Dean of Students David
Howison said that if the new rush
plan does not run as expected
next fall, faculty members will
present a winter rush proposal to
the Student Affairs Committee.

Atkins thinks the new rush
plan is a start in the right direc-
tion.

“If the fratemitfes abide by
their own rules I think it will
work out well,” he said.

chaos

Police caution a

' BY DAVID WALL
of The UVa. Cavalier Daily News

The man who may have raped two Uni-
versity of Virginia students last weekend
may have committed another sexual assault
Monday night, University Police officials

‘said.

The attacker described by the victim of
the third assault, which occurred on
Whitehead‘ Road outside the Chemistry
Building, is similarto those described by the
victims of the two weekend rapes. Police are
“not ruling out” a connection among the

‘three crimes, University Police Investigator
Cassandra Carter said.

The similaritiesramong the three crimes
are “puzzling,” Carter said. “The descrip-
tions [of the attackers] are similar.”

Despite the similarities, the
Charlottesville and University Police De-
partments have no suspects, University
Police Lt. Steve Shifﬂette said. According
to Charlottesville PoIiceDet.Randy Higgins,
the suspect may no longer be in
Charlottesville.

“We’re not exactly sure where he is,”
Higgins said. “We‘re still looking but it may
not be a local person.”

A university student was tackled from
behind in the assault Monday night and
fondled, according to a University ‘Police
report. The attacker ﬂed when two other
people approached, the report said. The stu-
dent was not injured, the report states.

“Becauseaknife was notinvolved [Mon-

' day night], it might indicate that the same
people were not involved” in the three crimes,

rea campuses

Carter said.
Both the weekend rapes involved the

victims being taken to secluded areas at.

knifepoint.
The Charlottesville and University Po-
,lice Departments are conducting a joint
investigation of the weekend rapes,
Shifflette said.

The men who committed the rapes dur-
ing the weekend were both described by the
victims as heavy—set black men, about 5-
foot-9, with beards and square glasses, a
Charlottesville Police spokesman said.

The victim of the Monday night assault
described her attacker as a black man in his
early 205, over six feet tall and without
facial hair, Shifflette said.

The assault occurred just before l():30
p.m., when the victim was walking alone
and heard someone running toward her from
behind, according to the report.

. She ran to escape her assailant, but was
caught from behind and thrown to the
ground, the report stated. “I do not know
what he intended to do, and neither does’-3
the victim, Carter said.

Higgins urged all women at local cam-
puses to be more “aware of where they are
going at night, especially alone.” A com-
posite of the attacker(s) will be available
Friday afternoon.

Higgins requested that students who were
in Charlottesville the weekend of April 23
and have any information about the attacks
call him at 804-971-3293.

David Wall is an associate editor for the Cavalier
Daily News at the University of Virginia, at
Charlottesville.

EC cancels White Book retreat

BY TIIoMAs HESPOS

By MICIIEAL HEv{t;E'rr
Phi Staff Writer

Familiar faces at Washington and Lee will
be coming to the big screen soon.

Beginning Monday, May 3 and running
through Wednesday, May 5, scenes for the film,
The Foreign Student, will be shot on the W&L
campus.

The film is based Oil the serni-autobiographi-
cal book by Phillipe Labro. Labro was a foreign
exchange student from France who attended
W&L during the 1950s. Marco Hoffschneider
will play Phillipe in the movie.

A casting call for extras was held March 10

p in the Arlington Women’s Center in the Univer-

sity Center. Several W&L students were called
back to Richmond to try out for speaking roles
in the film.

Sophomore Brian McClung, with his bright
red hair, secured a speaking role in the movie.
McClung said that 12 students tried out for his
role and he and four other students were called
back to Richmond.

McClungpoItrays amember of adisclipinary
committee who is hearing a case on Labro. In
the movie, Labro violates the speaking tradition
by not smiling when he says hello.

McClung said that nothing distinguished
him from the other students who tried out for the
part.

“It’s a total fluke,” said McClung. “It was
just 1uck.”

Juniors Holley Proctor and Jennifer Ray
were cast as southern belles. Proctor said she
and Ray will sit in the dorm halls and fawn over
Phillipe and two of his friends. Proctor said the
three men are considered “gods” at the school
and that every girl desires to be seen with them.

Seniors Matt Jennings and Tom Hooper also
landed speaking roles in the film.

Jennings plays a senior at the school who
tells Phillipe that the Advisory Committee needs

to speak with him, while Hooper plays a varsity ,

letterman who rides his bicycle past Phillipe
and calls him “Frenchy.”

Senior Doug Lamb does not have a speaking
role in the movie, but does have a large role. He
is Hoffschneider’s body double in the film.
Lamb stands in for Hoffschneider while scenes
are being set up and will also appear in some of
the football scenes in the movie.

Freshman Richard Weaver is one of the
many extras who were cast in the ﬁlm.

“I never throught I would have the chance to
be in a movie in such a small place as Lexing-
ton,” he said

FRoM STAFF REPORTS

When Hollywood invades Washington and
Lee next week to film The Foreign Student, it
will bring a little commotion to the campus.

Cathargo Films, who is producing the movie,
will require extra parking, the removal of bi-
cycles from the Graham—Lees quad and the
silencing of the Lee Chapel bells for the film-
mg.
Sophomore Chris Albert, who is working
for the Locations Departmentof Cathargo said
Washington Street from Lee Avenue to Nelson
Street will be closed to all through traffic.
Additionally, all parking on Washington Street
will be reserved for the film crew. ‘

Albert said several other areas on campus
will be blocked off during the filming, includ-
ing the upper corral and certain spots by the
gym and the Commerce School.

Students will be able to park in the lower
corral lot, or in the upper and lower parking lots
behind the gym.

The bicycle racks in the Graham—Lees quad
will be removed so the film will be historically
accurate. The bikes currently in the racks must
be moved to another location by Friday mom-
in g. Albert said no bicycles should be tethered
to the railings in the quad on the days of the
filming. Bikes can be moved back Thursady
May 6.

Cathargo may also have to enter a few
student rooms to close windows or shades.
Any crew members that enter a student room
will be accompanied by a Washington & Lee
security guard. Students will be asked to re-
frain from making any noise during the actual
filming.

If it rains the schedule will probably change,
Albert said.

XQ
KAE-)
KKI‘

Indep. W.

Winter Term Report Card

Pm STAFF WRITER

.. At its April 19 regular meeting, the
Executive Committee voted to cancel
its retreat to discuss White Book is-
sues.

“It’s simply not feasible this year,”
said EC President Josh MacFarland.

The EC voted in late January to
d‘ cuss controversial Honor System
issues in a closed executive session at
Skylark, a university-owned confer-
ence center. _

The Student Body Constitution
states that the EC “shall not go into
executive session except in the case of
p ssible honor violations.”

“The purpose of the Skylark thing

was so that we could take a look at the
issues... and pass something on to [next
year’s EC,]” said MacFarland.

The Skylark retreat was originally
scheduled for March 13, but was can-
celled because of the blizzard that be-
gan March 12.

MacFarland brought up the Skylark
retreat at the April 19 meeting of the
EC and found that its members could
not find a suitable time for the retreat
that all EC reps could attend.

Instead, said MacFarland, the bur-
den of reviewing the Honor System
will fall on next year’s committee.

The EC passed a process for amend-
ing the White Book in late February,
which calls for a complete review of
the Honor System every three years,

beginning next academic year.

EC Advocate Dan Munroe, a third-
year law student, said he has faith that
next year’s EC will review the honor
system completely.

“I hope they do follow through with
it,” he said. “I think that they will. Bob
Thompkins is really competent.”

Munroe said he feels there are sev-
eral issues raised by the Honor System
that need attention. He said an honor
trial differs from a court trial because
advocates are not allowed to talk to the
EC’s witnesses.

Munroe said he feelsitis“extremely
unfair” that students who appeal art EC
decision are penalized if found guilty a
second time.

“That should be done away with,”

he said.

According to the EC ’s current pro-
cedure for amending the White Book,
a review committee will be appointed
by the EC every three years. The
committee will be composed of eight
members and one chairman. No mem-
ber of the review committee may be a
member ofthe EC. The committee will
report to the EC periodically on the
W&L comnIuIIity’s opinions of the
Honor System and will submitpropos-
als for changes to the White Book by
March I.

MacFarland said next year’s review
will be conducted in open meetings,
and not in executive session.

“Everything will be all open,” he
said.

All Women
AXA

KA

II B4)

II KA

All Students
ZAE

X‘l’

K):

(DAB
Indep. M.
Z<DE
IlKd>

All Men
XX

t1>K‘l’
(‘D102
(D173

ZN

Bell

2 2.2 2.4 2.6 2.8 3

 

13
3.178
3.148
3.137
3.136
3.052
3.028

2.741
2.718
2.635 '
2.634

3.2 3.4

 

PAGE 2

    

Ellie iﬂing-tum iﬁlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Thefts continue...

Last week we ran a story about thefts in the Law School
Library. Executive Committee reps. Jay Sterne and Kevin Webb
have told the Phi that the thefts are getting worse. Students have had
wallets and other valuable items stolen. Apparently, many thefts
have occurred in the middle of the day, a time when most law
students would notice a stranger.

Security believes the thefts at night are being committed
by a townsperson. But now these thefts are being committedin
broad daylight. It's hard to ignore the fact that the thief may quite
possibly be a W&L student.

The ﬁrst thought that comes to your mind might be, “it’s
not possible, we have a strong tradition of honor here."The sad, but
very true fact is that most of the world does not live under a system
of honor, nor do they have a clue of what the word honor means.

But will they play
by the rules?

The IFC and SAC recently reached an agreement for next
fall’s fraternity rush. The proposal essentially gives freshman
males more time to make up their minds and greater opportunities
to see the different houses. The proposal also deﬁnes exactly what
the IFC and SAC mean by delayed pledgeship.

On paper it seems like a good proposal. Freshman still get
rush out of their way early, and they will also have time to get
settled before becoming pledges. Fraternities have repeatedly
ignored the IFC rules when it comes to rush. The big question is will
they start following the rules now? Good luck IFC, we hope you
don’t need it and everyone cooperates. -

If you must drink...

Another Foxﬁeld has come and gone. Now, we don’t want
to preach, but did you notice the high number of car accidents, or
people pulled over for Driving Under the Influence? We did.
Drinking-Wind  stupid, plainiarrdsirnple.-t lt‘srtrue»there

were students and adults from places o'ﬂ"ieifthan‘W&£ 'd’rinkii'ig'aiid‘-f
driving. ‘But one person drinking and driving is one too many, no ‘

matter where they are from.

Blake Comer, a former W&L student is sitting in
Rockbridge County Jail, at this very moment, for killing Mary
Ashley Scarborough in a hit and run that was the result of driving
under the inﬂuence. Scarborough was just a freshman here when
she died in March of 1989. No one here ever wants to deal with that
kind of tragedy again. So, please before you drink a drop of alcohol
think about how you’re getting home.

We hope that you will keep one more thing in mind when
you’re drinking this term. Everyone with two eyes and a brain can
see that as a campus we begin drinking more spring term. We're not
about to tell you not to drink alcohol. If you want to drink, that’s
what you’re going to do. But, be careful with how much you are
drinking. Spring term is a time every W&L student looks forward
to, but it’s also an easy time to get caught up in drinking. A lot of
us go out and party every single chance we get spring term, which
can be four or ﬁve times a week. If you ’ re getting drunk fouror ﬁve
times a week you’re eventually going to find yourself in a bad spot.
So please, be careful when you’re partying with alcohol.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1993

0
, , ﬁl Kﬁw-y. YF-F-5lDF(’‘l' 
:’ ,;~ \ WL$0:«l, l_r'$ A .
I. (W rt - *
 /5, i; FRIENDLY boo;
‘" ’:%S’
O
9

Political correc

WASHINGTON — An institution, we are told, is
the lengthening shadow of a man. If so, official
mischief at the University of Pennsylvania is of more
than merely parochial interest because Penn’s presi-
dent, Sheldon Hackney, is President Clinton’s nomi-
nee to head the National Endowment for the Humani-
ties. So consider the cases of Gregory Pavlik and
Eden J acobowitz.

Pavlik is one of many col-
umnists for the student news-
paper, The Daily Pennsylva-

 .4‘-:"'

of the First Amendment was: “Taking newspapers is
wrong.” But also: “I recognize that the concerns of
members of Penn’s minority community that gave
rise to last week’s protests are serious and legiti-
mate.” What “concerns” are “legitimate?” Concerns

that right-wing opinion is being published?
The university will investigate whether - yes,
whether — the trashing of the paper violated freedom
i of expression. The sever-
ity of this investigation can
be gauged by an official’s

nian.Robustlyright-wing, he
iscomprehensivelyoffensive
to the politically correct. He
denouces Martin Luther
King, racial preferences, and
much else. He is often ex-
treme and heavy-handed,
which is to say he is squarely
in the tradition of undergradu-
ate journalism.

And he is the reason why, two weeks ago, some
black students met delivery trucks early in the mom-
ing, serized almost 14,000 copies of the paper, and
dumped them in trash bins. The trashers offered this
defense: “Not only are the papers free, but there
exists no explicit restriction on the number of papers
that any given student may remove.” President
Hackney’s mincing description of this assault on
press freedom: papers “were removed from their
regular distribution points.”

Hackney’s first statement was of regret that “two
important university values, diversity and open ex-
pression, seem to be in conﬂict.” A remarkable
statement. It is clearly craven, yet has no clear mean-
ing. (Does the “diversity” value mean that some
groups but not all groups that are part of the
university’s diversity have a right not to be an-
noyed?)

A few days laterHackney’s even limper defense

 

(}EORGEVVHJ.

Washington Post
Writers Group

statement that the univer-
sity will take into account
the fact that those who sup-
pressed the newspaper
“did not see their protest
in the context of its being
an infringement of free
speech.”

Hackney's credentials
as a defender of free speech are academically ortho-
dox. He defends federal subsidies for Robert
Mapplethorpe’s homoerotic exhibits and says disap-
proving things about Sen. Jesse Helms, thoughts not
perilous on campus. He is a First Amendment funda-
mentalist, but with a selectivity that suggests politi-
cal calculation.

The latest victim of Hac}<ney’s doctrine of balanc-
ing “diversity” (or “sensitivity”) against free expres-
sion is Eden Jacobowitz. Late one evening he and
others in his dorm were bothered by a noisy gathering
of black students outside. He and others shouted at
the noisy students. Some persons shouted racial
epithets. Jacobowitz shouted “Will you water buffa-
los get out of here?” and “If you want to party, there’s
a zoo near here.”

When campus police arrived, others who had
shouted denied doing so. J acobowitz said he had, and

that he knew the race of the people he was shoutirtg”
at, but he adamantly denied shouting any racial slurs. .

 

ess claims victims.

In subsequent proceedings against Jacobowitz,
one of the university administration’s thought and
speech enforcers demanded to know if Jacobowitz
had been having “racist thoughts” that night, and
insisted that the phrase “water buffalo” was racist.
However, various scholars, black and white, have
defended Jacobowitz. He was for twelve yeaﬁe a
Yeshiva student and on the fateful night he used the
English translation of the Hebrew word “beharneh.”
It means water oxen, and in slang means a thought-
less, foolish person.

The Hackney administration tried to get
Jacobowitz to plea bargain. It would stop persecut-
ing him if he would accept the punishment prefeied
by totalitarian regimes and American campus liber-
als; re-education, in the form of “sensitivity” train-
ing. He refused.

Last Friday the university’s trial of him was
postponed, ostensibly because of a procedural tech-
nicality, but perhaps because of scomful press atten-
tion. The university may hope to resume its pers¢u-
tion later, when no one is watching, hoping that
meanwhile the example of Jacobowitz, anxious in

limbo, will exert a chilling effect on speech, to the H

gratification of the politically correct.

Hackney's university is mild, “understanding,”
almost condoning when a politically incorrect col-
umnist is a black group’s excuse for brownshirt
tactics against a newspaper. But the university is
ludicrously aroused by a Jacobowitz’s supposed
violation of  what’? Some rowdy people’s right not
to be annoyed while they are armoying others?

Hackney's institution has a propensity for behav-
ior both cowardly and bullying, trimming principles
to pander to political fashion. As he heads for Wa h-
ington to superintend the disbursementof millions of
dollars to scholars, the Chronicle of Higher Educa-
tion reports: “Scholars praise Hackney as even-
handed, moderate.”

© V1993, Washington Post Writers Group

Museum lets us not forget the -past '

Cllriz ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Features Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . Jearme Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, roonr
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON — Sgt. qﬁeorge
Matthews, my uncle, was with the U.S.
Army when our tanks swept across
Germany in 1945 routing the Nazis,
liberating the concentration camps
along the way.

But like so many of his generation,
Uncle George had no penchant for war

elevator, it sets the stage for the exhibit
we are about to see. I

As the elevator opens at the
museum’s top floor, we are met with a
series of dramatic, wall-sized photo-
graphs.

First: a group of suntanned Gls in
khaki uniforms staring down on the

  
  

  

stories. Only chalk-like
rarely would corpses of
he speak to concentration
his wife and camp victims
chhildrep) oi; CHRISTOPHER stregvn in rat:
w at e ‘ roa cars an

seen in the MATTHEWS alongthetrain
camps: the ' - tracks. Next:
horriblethin- T“1§““e.Med‘a another color
ness of the ervlces photographof
people, the aBuchenwald
rank smell inmate look-

that filled the air.

That painful silence is about to be
ended. Entering the new U.S. Holo-
caust Memorial Museum, which opens
to the public Monday, we confront the
century's worst crime just as a liberat-
ing GI might in the last spring months
of World War II.

“We’vejustcome across something.
We don’t what know it is.”

The voice is that of an American
army officer issuing his first stunned
report from the 1945 German battle-
front. Broadcast to us on the museum

ing directly toward the camera, his
head in 3-D relief, as he cats with his
hands from a pot.

“The things I have seen beggar the
imagination,” the next exhibit quotes
Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower shown
standing with his fellow liberators at a
death camp. “I made the visit deliber-
ately in order to be in a position to give
firsthand evidence of these things if
ever, in the future there develops a
tendency to charge these allegations
merely to ‘propaganda.”’

This, it becomes clear, is also the

LETTERS

new museum ’s mission: to bear lasting
witness to what happened in Europe
between 1933 and 1945, to take some-
one through those 12 nightmare years
in two hours without the visitor ever
once stopping to check his or her watch.

lt’s that compelling, that unnerv-
ing. Film clips, photographs and tape
recordings take us through the Nazis
rise to power, the book burnings, the
anti-Semitic propaganda ‘of Joseph
Goebbels, the boycott of Jewish busi-
nesses, Kristallnacht, the oath of per-
sonal loyalty German soldiers were
required to make to Der Fuhrer, the
1939 invasion of Poland and the dis-
patch of the gruesome “killing squads”
to that country.

Some pictures are unforgettable:
that of the three Nazi storm troopers
standing in front of an F.W. Woolworth
store with the banner reading , “Kauft
Nicht Bei Juden” —-— “Don't buy from
Jews”; the faces of the priests, teachers
and other Poles standing in a town
square enduring the final minutes be-
fore they are to be shot; the list of the

' dozen men, most of them holding
Ph.D's, who attended the fateful meet-
ing in Wannsee, that beautiful lakeside
Berlin suburb where it was decided in
January 1942 that all Jews would be
“exported to the East” for purposes of
the “final solution.”

The wonder of the Holocaust Mu-
seum is that it asks visitors to retrace
these events much as the 6 million
victims did, through dimly-lit halls
leading to uncertain destinations, fi-
nally to the most awful display: a cre-
matorium, into which the unsuspect-
ing were marched by the tens of thou-
sands, each group as unwitting as the
one before, each believing the camp
guards who instructed them to sgip
for“de-lousing.”

“ They were arriving with the same

ignorance of their fate,” one Auschwitz
escapee recal led,“as the previous trans-
port‘?!
Thanks to the Holocaust Museum,
the victims, survivors and liberator of
this century’s and mankind’s most n-
imaginable evil can sense what hap-
pened in its human dimension, not just-
in still photographs but in movies, not
merely in the remote black-and-white
of the newsreel camera but sometimes
in the bright color of daily life, not 'ust
in the stark horror of bodies pile in
open ditches but in the smil ing-tumed-
sad faces of the victims.

We can see the targets of Nazism’s‘

wrath not just as my uncle and other
Gls spotted it in its spring 1945 rem-
nants but when the victims’ own lives
were still filled with hope.

© 1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Lack of EC ideological funding is wrong . -

To the Editor:

an effect we can agree would be welcome. ’
As it is now, candidates do not present their stances

cause I once shared it. 1 once fancied myself a
warrior on the front lines to defend this conser-

This is an open letter to the Executive Committee
and the student body that elects it.

I feel absolutely compelled to voice my conviction
that the current EC funding policy, which denies
monies to “ideologically partisan” groups, is ridicu-
lous. I might find it laughable if 1 were not a student
here, and a concerned one. By withholding funds
from “ideological partisan” groups, the EC actively
undermines the vitality of the university’s intellectual
climate, making this school, as one member of the
committee recently phrased it, “boring.”

The argument that this university lacks the funds to
sustain an open funding policy is simply untenable.
Other schools of similar size, and with like budgetary
constraints do fund a diversity of ideological organi-
zations. Moreover, I would like to believe that we, as
a student body, would be willing to sacrifice a band or
a speaker if it meant invigorating the campus climate
by financially sustaining a variety of campus organi-
zations. '

The argument that an open funding policy would
lead to a problematic politicization of the EC is
equally invalid. An open funding policy that allowed
EC members to vote in accord with their own ideo-
logical sympathies would, in fact, have beneficial
effects. It would generate greater interest among the
student body in committee candidates and elections,

on any issues because there aren ’t any. Instead, candi-
dates simply paste a bunch of signs around campus
with their names on them. Personally, and I am sure I
am not alone in this, [don’t really care what the names
of the candidates are and_l certainly do not intend to
vote for someone because he took the time and spent
the money at Mountain Copy Graphics to add his ﬂier
to the homogeneous conglomeration that covers school
bulletin boards come election time.

I want to know about a candidate’s politics and
how that person ’s activity on the E.C. might affect the
campus climate. Specifically, I would like to know if
they intend to upset or defend the present climate, one
of overwhelming apathy, close—mindedness, confor-
mity, and stilling conservatism.

If people knew that their representatives would be
shaping the ideological landscape of the campus with
their EC votes, perhaps election campaigns would be
more volatile and interesting than the present contests.
Perhaps, ideas would begin to matter and debate
would begin to intensify. lsn’t that what we all came
to college for? Or did we come to have our biases
confirmed and our prejudices unchallenged?

I know that some on the EC fear than open funding
policy would precipitate an avalanche of liberal orga-
nizations ranting and raving about the university's
shortcomings. I understand this idiotic anxiety be-

r4&'4Y

.5... ».n,I. .-.-, . .

vative citadel from a liberal siege. What a fool I
was! And what fools are all those who retain that
sad fear. ‘

The college experience should be a demo-
cratic celebration and conﬂict of ideas. If liberal
suppon should proliferate in the wake of a
funding policy, an effect 1 would embrace ifnot
expect, we ought to receive that outcome as a
popular response reflecting student body senti-
ment. What are we afraid of? What are we
defending our college from but a potentially
more accurate and lively expression of student
opinion?

If an open policy sparks liberal activity, so be
it. If it sparks conservative activity, so be it;
though I must confess that 1 cannot see how
W&L could move any further right without
alienating any prospective student left of Attila ’
the Hun. The important principle to uphold is
that the university ought to do everything in its
power to actively stimulate and encourage ideo-
logical debate, controversy, conflict, and dis-
course. After all, this is college, not a country
club. Or is it?

Justin Peterson, ’94

....a».» .~.,., ,.a..,,o ..-,...-_i..   < 

 

I e Hing-tum Phi, April 29, 1993

OPINION

ooze enhances Spos‘ state of mind

res’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

Have you ever found yourself in
eofthosedeeplyintellcctual,pseudo-
ilosophical moods after consuming
o l’l‘1Ch of your favorite alcoholic

verage? A “Drunken Intellectual-
ation” of an idea or concept can, at
e time, seem relevant to today’s is-

es. But in retrospect, such excur-
ons of the mind can turn out to be
u mpletely silly and seem inconsequen-
al utmn the onset of sobriety.

The following is a collection of
nderings and thoughts, all dreamed
gs by Spos and his buddies during
mes of, shall we say, sobriety depri-
tion. Here goes:

1) The Fancy Dress Budget/Plas-
c Fcrk Rationalization.

Suppose Spos and his friends took

ery cent allotted by the Executive
ommittee for the Fancy Dress Ball

d blew the whole lump sum on plas-
c forks. Suppose we took these plas-
c forks and dumped them all in Evans
mug Hall. Assuming $85,000 in the
I budget and assuming that we could
et a deal on plastic forks by buying

em in bulk ($l.00=100 forks), we get
,500,000 forks total. Assuming that
00 forks make up one cubic foot, we
~ rive at a figure of 14,167 cubic feet of
0 rksy'This means that the D-Hall, with
.200 square feet of ﬂoor space, could
- filled to a depth of approximately
.2 feet. Sure, the Fancy Dress Ball is
fun time, but just think of how much
in we could have with a huge room

filled with over 2 feet of plastic forks.

2) The Mister Columbia Enter-
tainment Industry Conspiracy
Theory.

Mister Columbia is a shady, ethe-
real entity that influences, either di-
rectly or indirectly, every major money-
maker in the entertainment industry.
Mister Columbia has avirtually unlim-
ited supply of cash, which he uses to
exploit organizations and individual
entertainers. In fact, Mister C is re-
sponsible for every major sellout in
the entertainment industry, including
the downfall of the World Wrestling
Federation and Van Halen’ s recent sell-
out to the Pepsi Corporation. Anytime
you see Jim Palmer in an underwear
commercial or hear a radio jingle that
sounds remarkably similar to an old
Beatles tune, remember... it’s Mister
Columbia’s fault.

3) Does that hot girl/guy in my
Politics class know I exist?

The answer is no. He/She is going
out with someone who is much better
looking than you are. Don’t kid your-
self.

4) Sol Wachtler— Is he a victim of
a flawed judicial system?

Here we have New York’ s topjudge
and a Washington & Lee alumnus ac-
cused of doing a bunch of nasty things.
Who should we believe, Mr. Wachtler
or the press? What about all those years
he spent on the bench? Aren’t those
good for anything? Shouldn’t we just
give him the real-life equivalent of a
“get out of jail free card” and forget
about the whole silly mess? This is a
toughy. Ithink that Mister Columbiais
somehow involved in all this.

5) The Cosmic Theory of the Lex-
ington Postal System.

No matter where you are, no matter
what time of day, and no matter what
the weather is like, feel confident that
the Lexington Post Office is screwing
something up. Want to know why?
Because the
Le x in g ton
Post Office
is built on a

As a matter of fact, the

wouldn’t they start by brainwashing
our kids? American toddlers look up to
Barney. He teaches kids to share their
belongings, to brush their teeth after
every meal and to be nice to people.
That’s cool. He also tells kids to watch
his show every day because Barney is
smart, even
smarter than
Mom and Dad.
Barney tells chil-

piece ofland
that is gravi-
tationally
unstable. As
a matter of
fact, the
basement of
the post of-
fice is home
toafledgling
black hole
that opened
upwithinthe

basement of the Post Of-
fice is home to a ﬂedgling
black hole that opened up
within the past decade or
so. The black hole usu-
ally appears at around
midnight, sucks up a few
letters and packages, and
spits them out all the way
on the far side of the An-

dren that they
should always
watch his show,
even if Mom and
Dad say not to.
Hmmm... What
happens when
Barney teaches
kids to load an as-
sault rifle and
shoot their par-
ents if they don’t
agree with what

past decade
or so. The

dromeda Galaxy.

Bameysays? Just
something to

black hole
usually ap-
pears around midnight, sucks up a few
letters and packages, and spits them
out all the way on the far side of the
AndromedaGalaxy. Thus being“fed,”
the hole closes up again, just in time for
the next business day.

6) Barney the Dinosaur: Friendly
reptile or pawn of the neo-Nazis?

What is up with this Bamey the
Dinosaur character? Why are parents
complaining about him? There has to
be some substance to the anti-Barney
movement. Ifthe Nazis wanted to get
a foothold in American society,

think about.

Who says that
alcohol impairs brain functions’? It
seems to Spos that alcohol actually
enhances the thought process. How
else would we come up with stuff like
this? If we never got drunk, Barney
might take over the world. (Can’t you
just picture it — everyone standing in a
big circle, singing “I love you, you love
me, etc. etc. adnauseum.”) So don’tbe
afraid to think. If you don’t, we might
never figure out how many plastic forks
would fill the D-Hall. Without such
vital information, we would all be in a
load of trouble.

‘rofessor's exit signals decline

3; VIEW
By Patrick MeDermott

I write to inform my fellow students and all
embers of our community of the tremendous loss
hich we as a university are about to experience. At
e end of this term a truly remarkable person, a

‘ chq in the most meaningful sense of the word,
ill leave this campus forever.
I have personally been affected by this amazing

dividual’s strong commitment to her rbeliefsgandm
‘r indescribable ability to interest a student. in‘,the"

bject area which so interests her. Shehasavvakened
. untless minds to new possibilities and has caused
1 enormous amount of discussion and scrutiny to
e place concerning this university and its attitudes.
er name is Dr. Valerie Lind Hedquist and she is
signing as of May of this year.
Many of you may remember Professor Hedquist
om her ordeals with The Spectator. For those of you
ho were not here for this rather dark passage in the

It contributes to a denial of major health issues
facing our student body, not the least of which are the
sexual assualts which go unreported by the vast
majority of women for fear of being ostracized from
their social groups, as well as, denial about the
possibilities of contracting a sexually transmitted
disease for fear that by initiating provcn methods of
risk reduction one might be shunned. It is also the
reason that we lost highly qualified personnel like
Professor Hedquist, and, I might add, why we have
such an incredibly difficult time attracting the same

. qualified_pers(3nnel to acceptpositions at this school. ‘
What;l,wnj9h.a1|9ttgi.ns9t4c.c9mml+niIy.l9.d9.isto 
learn from the mistakes which have forced ProTessor‘

Hedquist to leave us and to realize that these very
mistakes are leading us down a path '
which can only bring us to a point lower

lack of diversity and tolerance. This is what is so
incredibly ironic about the voices of hate on our
campus who are systematically lowering the stand-
ing of our school while screaming that they are
attempting to maintain its traditions and continue its
former greatness.

It is time for us to realize that no matter what our
history, no matter how many famous people helped
found or attended this institution, no matter how
much money we pour into our programs, we are not
now, nor will we ever be, a truly great university until

we strive to achieve the compassion for our fellow V

human beings. ttwl.~.v,c..S<.>. s9rety,1a9.k- A.$:f0rPr9f°,-W
Hedquist’, it is for her that I have done this,‘ because

she should not feel her attempt at change to;.be~

unsupported or in
vain. I decided this

than that from which we began.

We as a university must begin to teach
tolerance if we are to move successfully
into the next century. We cannot con-
tinue to be oblivious to the diversity and

This lack of tolerance
is at the root of so many of
this community’s greatest

would be a more
constructive use
of my anger over
her departure.
However, on a

Counseling

The Peer Counseling Program is
now accepting applications for
membership. Application forms
maybe picked up from Mrs. Calkins
in the University Center. The dead-
line for applying is May 4 at 4:30
p.m.

Awards

The Executive Committee will
be taking nominations for the Frank
J. Gilliam Award and the Dr. Wil-
liam W. Pusey Award. The Gilliam
award is presented to the student
who has made the most valuable
contribution to student affairs over
the past year. The Pusey Award is
presented to the faculty member who
has made the greatest contribution
to the University. Please submit all
nominations to the Executive Com-
mittee.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s next presentation will be
the action thriller Reservoir Dogs
(USA, 1992), directed by Quentin
Tarantino. Showings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday and Saturday in the
Troubadour Cinema. As always,
there is no charge for admission.
The film is in English.

Preston Society

The Preston Society will present
a lecture by Col. George Brooke
Thursday, May 6 at 7 p.m. in Room
327 of the C-school. The title of the
speech is “lmpressions of VMI and
W&L since 1930.” The public is
invited to attend. The Preston Soci-
ety is an organization formed by
W&L students and VMI cadets, that
aims to bring students from both

schools together, and is intended to
promote..goodwill_:.betmeennthen »~ « «Re
= schools.-hyrofferivia. il0im.:‘~""-‘.1FltW:-.- --

-nityyservice projects, lectures, and
social events.

Art

“Icons and Images: Collages and
Assemblages by John D. Morgan”

Wardrobe  

On Saturday all faculty and stu-
dents who were cast as extras in The
Foreign Student and were asked to
go to a wardrobe fitting session
should report to El Rodeo at their
assigned time. Parking by El Rodeo
is limited, so walking is probably
the best idea.

Bells

The class-changing bell system
will be completely shut down dur-
ing the filming of The Foreign Stu-
dent on Monday through Wednes-
day, May 3-5.

Parking

Washington Street, from Lee Av-
enue to Nelson Street, will be closed
to traffic Monday through Wednes-
day, May 3-5. Faculty and staff will
be able to use Washington Street to
get to the back pan of campus, but
all parking on Washington Street
will be reserved for the ﬁlm crew.

Bikes

All bikes in the Graham-Lees
Quad must be moved to another
location by tomorrow morning so
that Buildings and Grounds can re-
move the bike racks. Additionally,
locking bikes to the various railings
in the quad will interfere with film-
ing of The Foreign Student in the
quad next week. Bikes may be
moved back on May 6.

gistration

. Registration for fall classes will
begin on Monday, May 3 and con-
tinue through Friday, May 7.Course
listings will be available on the Lib-
erty Gopher Thursday and in print

story of this institution, I will not disturb you with
e details of her encounter. I believe it is enough to
y that she personally experienced the full force of
at magazine’s well-known hatred.
For attempting to show merchants in the commu-
ity the kind of magazine they were supporting with
»- ir advertisements, she was treated to a host of
rea ning notes, disturbing comments, and calls
-o ‘a umni and students calling for her dismissal. I

problems. It cases us to
maintain and subsidize a
Greek system which is to-
tally out of control, so that
we might all fit into the
appropriate cliques rather
than standing out as indi-

W&L Past

An address by Sidney M.B.
Coulling, '48 and professor of En-
glish emeritus, will kick off festivi-
ties for alumni weekend, May 6.
Coulling will present his talk, "Re-
membrances of Things Past: W&L

changes of the outside world. We can no
longer continue this “ivory tower” ap-
proach to our educational experience,
allowing the forces of racism, sexism
and homophobia to rule our day-to-day
lives. Many have argued that there is a
place in our country’s vast educational
system for schools like W&L, and that
those of us who are in some way different

more personal
note, I will‘ share
with you, _ this
community which
I care deeply for,
what I would oth-
erwise say only to
her, “I have re-
cently mettheper-

is the title of a one-man show by the
artist on display at duPont Gallery
until May 14. Gallery hours are from
8 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday through Fri-
day.

Music

c this as one of the most vivid examples of the
oblem which I see steadily overtaking this univer-
ty. That is, the total absence of tolerance for anyone
ho thinks, acts, or looks differently than what is
ough to be the W&L “norm.”
Th's lack of tolerance is at the root of so many of
is c mmunity’s greatest problems. It causes us to
aintain and subsidize a Greek system which is
tally out of control, so that we might all fit into the
lopropriate cliques rather than stand out as individu-

s. It fosters a high level of alcoholism by exerting a
taggering amount of peer pressure to either “get

should either adapt or leave. I simply do
not agree with that kind of rationale be-

viduals.

son who will sue-
ceed you, and it

cause it has no logical support.

It is because I love this school so much
that I so desperately want it to change. As was
pointed out in a previous letter to this newspaper, a
university sees diversity as fundamental to the edu-
cational experience. After all, what can possibly be
learned in a classroom where all the students are
exactly alike?

Any honest administrator will tell you that the
only major reason that W&L is not seen in that
precious top ten list of liberal arts colleges is our total

was only at that

moment that it
truly occurred to me that you were leaving. You have
meant more to me than you will ever know. It is
because of you and a small group of others, and they
know who they are, that I have remained at this place
to “stick it out” and fight for change. I hope this letter
lives up to what you had hoped to do and I hope that
you will be happy wherever you find yourself. Thank
you for being my teacher and my friend. I will miss
you.”

A performance by the Roanoke
Symphony Orchestra will highlight
the events of a six-day music festi-
val, April 27-May 2 on campus.The
festival will close with a perfor-
mance of the orchestra on Sunday,
May 2, at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest
Center.

Race

The Lexington Road and River
Relay, a race combining elements
of nmning, bicycling, and canoe-
ing, will be held on Saturday. Entry I
forms are available at Big Dog
Graphics and the Domino's Pizza.

General notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

rasteg or get lost.”

Photos and Interviews

By Melissa Curtis

nd Robert Stewart

What are your expectations for Spring Term’?  

4 Anne Marie Paulin, ‘95, Honolulu,

Hawaii — “Debilitating stupor.’

Kevin Webb, ‘95L, Bethesda, Md.
— “None, I have no life.’

Monica Robinson, ‘94, Houston, Texas and Holly Proctor, ‘94, Hampton,

Va. — “To get tons...of sun.’

TALKBACK

Fred Haring, ‘93, Mansfield, Ohio
— ”To graduate.’

Tory Noto, ‘96, Upper Saddle River,
NJ — “Women, wine, and song.’

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1993

FEATURES

Alcoholism in college: Its prevalence and how to spot it

By AMY REYNOLDS
Generation X Press

The news isn’t new - alcohol is the drug Americans use and abuse more than
any other, including nicotine, cocaine, marijuana, heroin and prescription drugs.

According to an annual study conducted jointly by the National Institute on
Drug Abuse and the University of Michigan’s Institute for Social Research, 90
percentof all high school seniors have tried alcohol despite the fact that it is illegal
for them to purchase it.

1n the United States alone there are between eight and 12 million alcoholics.
More than a million of these alcoholics are thou ht to be college-aged.

The NIDA/ISR study shows that 41 percent o all college students report that
they engage in occasions of heavy drinking at least once every two weeks. The
study deﬁnes heavy drinking as five or more drinks in a row on a single occasion.

The 41 percent ﬁgure is the highest of any group studied, ranging from high
school students to adults past college and peers the same age who aren’t enrolled
in school.

College students report a daily drinking rate of almost 4 percent, which is
slightly lower than their peers who are not in college, (about 5 percent) which
suggests that college students tend to limit their drinking to weekends, during
which they drink the most.

College men report having five or more drinks in the previous four weeks at
a higher rate than women — 50 percent compared to 34 percent. But according
to national ﬁgures, approximately one in three alcoholics is a woman, compared
to the one in six estimate used during the 19605.

All of these statistics reinforce that many people’s drinking problems and
behaviors begin in college. But how can you tell the difference between a
problem drinker, a possible alcoholic and a social drinker when alcohol flows so
freely on campuses?

One modem—day definition of an alcoholic is anyone who uses alcohol to such
an extent that it interferes with his or her personal, social or occupational
behavior.

Other definitions of the term “alcoholic” focus on the medical and physical
symptoms of alcohol abuse.

According to Kenneth Kopf, a drug and alcohol consultant at Susquehanna
University in Pennsylvania, a person can ask several questions about a friend’s
behavior that can help identify a possible problem with alcohol.

The questions include the following:

V Is the person drinking outside the “norm” for his or her peer group?

V Is a senior or graduate student still drinking like a freshman‘?

V Is a freshman drinking more than those around him or her?

V Is the person suffering consequences as a result of his or her drinking —
has he or she been involved in the school’s disciplinary system or arrested for
drinking or drinking-related behavior?

V Has he or she lost friends because of drinking?

V Has his or her drinking interfered with academics?

V Does he or she frequently embarass him or herself because of alcohol‘?

V Do his or her behaviors form a pattern of negative behaviors?

V The two most important questions are questions you can ask your friend
directly — Have you ever been concerned or worried about you drinking‘? Has
anyone close to you ever expressed concern about your drinking‘?

If the answer to any of the above questions is yes and you believe you or a
friend might have a drinking problem, Kopf says you can take appropriate action:

The most important step is to tell your friend you think he or she has a problem.
Give them specific examples of their behavior that have led to your conclusion.

If the problem persists, educate yourself about alcoholism. Kopf notes that
people tend to educate themselves about other diseases from which friends and
family members suffer and alcoholism is no different.

The more you understand about the disease the better prepared you are to help
a friend with an alcohol problem.

Because some alternative definitions of alcoholism involve medical and
physical indicators, to further help spot a person with an alcohol problem a basic

 

Hart
MEANS IOWRICES

understanding of the drug and its effects is helpful.

Psychologically speaking, alcohol elicits different responses from different
people. Some individuals become more violent and aggressive, while some are
considered “happy drunks.”

All of the behavior alterations alcohol causes are a result of alcohol  effect
on the brain. Studies have shown that alcohol enlarges the ventricles and empty
spaces found between
folds in brain tissue. This
effect is related to how
much a person drinks.

The result of this en~
largement is less blood
flow to the brain and pos-

According to professionals who
treat alcoholics, the withdrawal
process an alcoholic endures is

SibiY10\{Vrerl::\'elsdofoxy- more severe and more likely to
C , .. .. .
§e:,03:]. ‘en 5 ‘m W“ 6 cause death than withdrawal from

Changes in a person’s a narcotic drug such as heroin.
behavior result from
alcohol’s ability to sup-
press behavioral inhibitors
which generally means that people feel less afraid and anxious. Critical thinking
and judgment are suppressed as well.

Physiologically, alcohol dilates the blood vessels near the skin surface
allowing body heat to escape, this gives the drinker the feeling of warmth despite
the fact that the body is actually cooling intemally.

Alcohol is absorbed rather than digested. Plain water will slow the absorption
of alcohol by diluting it while carbonated drinks like soda speed the absorption
process. Food also slows the absorption process.

Basically, all of the effects of alcohol are heightened in higher concentrations
of alcohol in the blood (commonly called a person’s blood alcohol level — legally,
most states consider a person to be drunk if they have a blood alcohol level of .10

or higher).

Some physical indications of alcoholism include the swelling of capillariﬁs
around the conjunctive of the eyes, resulting in puffiness in the face, forehead,
and underneath the eyes. Sometimes, in fair—skinned individuals, the alcoholic’s
skin might appear continually flushed.

Frequent hoarseness also can occur because of an accumulation offluid in the
mucous membranes in the nose, pharynx, larynx, and vocal chords. .Alcoholics
also tend to feel nauseous and lose their appetites from an inflammation of the
lining of the stomach. ‘

Withdrawal symptoms include tremors (the most common and the most
persistent), anxiety, insomnia, nausea, vomiting, as well as “feelings of unreal-
ity,” delusions, hallucinations, disorientation and possibly seizures, depending
on how long and how severely a person abused the drug.

According to professionals who treat alcoholics, the withdrawal process an
alcoholic endures is more severe and more likely to cause death than withdrawal
from a narcotic drug such as heroin.

This, obviously, is the reason so many experts stress prevention.

As mentioned earlier, men tend to become alcoholics more than women. But,
more significantly, researchers have found that genetics plays a strong role in

predisposition to alcoholism.

A person with a parent who was or is an alcoholic have a higher incidence of
alcoholism, especially at a younger age. Some studies show that of the
approximate eight million men who are alcoholics, 40 percent have a genetic
predisposition toward alcoholism. The genetic link also exists in women.

Research suggests that anyone with any family history of alcoholism should
carefully monitor his or her drinking behaviors. Scientists are still researching
the genetic link.

Ifa person admits or suspects he or she has an alcohol problem, the best step
is to seek professional help from a family physician, the National Council on
Alcoholism, Alcoholics Anonymous, Dean Schroer-Lamont, Counseling P53-
chologist, and Dr. James Worth, University Counseling Psychologist.

 

Photo My Lindsey Colentan, the Ring’-tum I‘n[

 

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

 

LOW PRICE .
ANJOU, BOSC, RED BARTLETT, BARTLETT '"

MIX on MATCH *    

CALIFORNIA

STRAWBERRIES PM

QUART .98
3-IN-I 1.47

(3 PINT PK.)

 

JERRY ALLEN

LITCHFIELD LANDING
SHOPPING CENTER
ROUTE 2, BOX 288

WORK AT
THE BEACH!

ouR MYRTLE BEACH
A ~ AND HILTON HEAD
~  LocATIoNs ARE

T,  Now HIRING FOR
*   THE suMMER.

IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILToN
HEAD LocATIoNs oR MAIL
APPLIcATIoN TO: :,k,

  
  
 
  

HARRIS TEETER, INC.‘ ‘~.:

LITCHFIELD, S.C. 29585

Hams TBBEBI’

‘ WALDENSIAN QUALITY

DESSERT
REDDI-WIP
TOPPING ........................ ..7 oz.
1 69

PIE CRUSTS ...... ..l5 oz.
I-IOMESTYLE 2/ I 49 ‘

LOW SALT °

BOILED HAM

2/ 9 9 -
CUPS ....................... ..6 CT. 0
PILLSBURY
BREAD... .... ..24 oz. LOAF
LB

IN THE DAIRY $ECTION- CAN I 
9
ALL READY «
IN THE DELI-BAKERY

 

PERDUE GRADE "A"

  
     
    

BREAST
gUARTER$

LIMIT 3 WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE,

PLEASE D
i :1‘...

REDUCED
PRICE

   

  
  

89

I2 PK.
I2 OZ. CANS

ICE MILK

T9

HALF
GAl..

FRESHLY SLICED
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK! To ORDER '
my cm“? a]; ALL FLAVORS REGULAR OR SALSA FLAVORED
COCA-COLA HIGHLAND CREST DORITOS ,

THINS

99.

I0 01.

 

Trademarks ®

Prices Effective Throu h April 27, I993

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, April 21 Through Tues cry), April 27, I993 In Our Mecltlenburg County Stores
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To ea

ers. We Glodly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 
 
     
     
   

 

    

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29,1993 " I PAGE 5

FEATURES ‘

Local author explores Women’s diaries Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS ‘
” ' . ii _ _ 1 Reﬁnery refuse
By JEANNE BNGGS hear lot today, Lyle sari.‘ The iwohmcii .\(Aj/flllllg tend to be much more selﬂess, 5 gcaristructton
Phi Features Editor ‘mg? m0%.umvCr§d“y nslhm’. S C Si“ ’ ‘ . . 10 Gun out

_u ()ne thing I have begun looking for is how they coped with depression. In 14 “cm. fof gov”

K one diary, 1 found a woman whose response to feeling down was to do chores. 15 Located in a city

atie Letcher Lyle, author of historical non-fiction and fiction for young NOW hm 100k1h8 _h” Olhcf CX31mP1°5- I f0hhd1lChT10Uf 1h?“ the” T93P0h$° '5 ho:  ﬁ,.£2,ahgii..p'.n
adults, lives and works right here in Lexington. to go call up a shrink but rather to work. Maybe there 5 a message there for us, 13 Climbing plant
’ Lyle, who attended Holliiis College, has been writing, researching and I-3'16 52119-_ _ _ i “ 2 gm”

ieacning in inc Lexingion aica for ininy yeam Lyle said she knew that she wanted to be a writer front the very beginning. I 22 commanded

She has published five novels for young adults, i always was ‘‘ “'“‘°r,J”5l hk°_ some PC0910 2‘ P'°‘(‘°“’ ‘°
twO of which were Newbery award finalists and always 1°‘/.Cd horses’ ’ LY10 5319- , gﬁmﬁm
one which was made into a TV special. She Shld ihfh 5h°_ had 9 Poem Pubhshcd academic year '

Lyle recently finished a book on American when she_wa§ lust eight years old. and has ggogggi mi.
camping for children, and is currently working on been Phhhshlhg h?Ti W0_Tk We!’ $1hCe- _ 35 c§,,,,,c,,°,,
a collection of excerpts from the diaries of 19th FY19 53119 that hVlh8 "1 I-iefhhglffh made 1‘ 38 Expunge
cennny Virginia woinen easier for her to pursue writing. I was the 37 $906

Lyle said, “I like research better than fiction.
I’w always been interested in historical non-fic-
lion.”

She said that she has already read 144 diaries

only person who wanted to edit the high ﬁg
school newspaper. One thing and another 429,399
[writing] was easy to do.” *4 "-")9
45
46

    

Lyle commented that the Lexington area

_ _ I i i i , _ it i_ d k ‘This ea snatiowiiiaoe eiziegmug “Mor5l:’SeMces. Inc. 04/29/93
W;lll€Il lfiy \:}1‘I‘gi)I(l)lak\«VOmCI1, and she IS looking for Ea? rIlel;°l)i)g<:)<:)€d1?ib;‘;if':1;1” stiigfsa-id “I hairlfﬂy 48 ggztmeo 125:: V Last week.S Puzzie sowed
a ocus or e o . v t

50 some songs 10 Cabal member

Lyle said, “I don’t know if the book will ever ever have to go elsewhere to do research” 52 Alweys.to poets 11 Indigent

   

come out, because I don’t know if I would know l dslhe 39969: ‘There 3 101 °fi‘1"_"'}e’5 aé°‘lmd» 53 gm  8;h:;':i‘:g piam
when I was done. It worries me to think of doing cm 9-X1hg}0h 15 3 PW-h)’ SOP ‘Shane P 3°C impnni,” 21 Tax agcin
anything ﬁnal because there are so many diaries. I to be], npt like other towns of five thousand :3 $.39 we b  i::I:?s
ivi,1:iii(i’wam [0 make Cenam I had read most of peolijyie currently teaches a graduate writing gS'ys:'$:°31‘°‘°r:‘ 1;? ::c"a'"' 5if°‘s
Lyle said that one thing the diaries she has read Semihar ,a‘,H°“i“Sv and has mught at South’ J8':08 on °'°V°p':°Sg
have in common is that there are no physical 9”‘ V"g”“a Cohege for Women and wash‘ g m"y“;°if;'t'y S3 ﬁgﬁy nine
descriptions of people. mgwn and.Lef m me Pi!“ . . 68 Ace or king 31 — Heights. lll.
‘There is not one single physical description in _ Lyle 5319» The H01hhS_ Whhhg Program 37 l-U90 ‘sad 3%?“ 'iV°'n,
any diary that lave Come across,» Lyie said. “Thai is one of the most famous in the country. It gs Asa?” '0“ 38 H2335 ies
may be because they really didn’t look at people has exlsted h°‘_” fol 30 Years: ahd "5 Srﬁdu‘ 39 Relatives
the way we do_ They didnai iive in such a coninien ates have published hundreds of books. ' 1  40 guru high. regard Mm/M
ciai age_» Lyle said that her advice to aspiring writ- 2 sin I. 43 “aged
Lyle also remarked on other differences she ersiwould be: . , 3 At head 45 Heating d°V'°°
noticed between women of the nineteenth century _ Write every single day. That s the best g\&J;Ll:na°n::;:d 2; ggioirle counter
“"'?i3"“i; no d th tth -.      3;‘§fa‘a°§;“§i£?*ii2‘3'pi“ei‘i$i&‘ér“i‘€§iﬁE ss:::;:,'=*°  :2i<:i:;:°~ 2s::;~:.:.:::'°'
ow ere I in a sense a ere wasn . A . t , ,, ' - _
enough time in the day, which is a complaint you Kane Letchel’ LYIG it has to be a part of your life. 5% mm 5‘ hgglfnhersi 57 (':i‘l£h‘ih?" 52 [3):‘r:'°:hi'd

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. The Pelican Brief, by John Grisham. (Dell, $6.99.) Law student
finds herself on the run from killers of two Supreme Courtjustices.

2. The Firm, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5 .99.) Young lawyer
confronts the hidden workings of his firm.

3. Jurassic Park, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $5.99.) A
theme park’s cloned dinosaurs are creating a world crisis.

4. Life’s Little Instruction Book, by H. Jackson Brown] r. (Rutledge
Hill $5 .95 .) Advice for attaining a full life.

5. All Around the Town, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Pocket, $6.50.)
A collegestudent is accused of killing her professor.

6. On the Pulse of Morning, by Maya Angelou. (Random House,
$5.00.) Poem recited at President Clinton’s inauguration. '

7. A Time to Kill, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) Racial
tension rims high during a trial.

8. Jazz, by Toni Morrison. (Plume, $10.00.) Passionate story of
obsession and music set in Harlem in the 1920s.
V ‘ . — V ..  9.The Autobiography of Malcolm X, with Alex Haley. (Ballantine,
OU CiOl'l’t have t0 be crunchll t0 iOV9 y0UI' earth Ph°'° “Y D‘"”‘" w'""°“’""" R"'g'"‘"' P“ 55-993 The black leaderis M9 5W)’-

_ , _ , 10.3 k|ash,b S Fld'.(Anh ,$12.50.)P ‘fl (1
Cold weather forced the Earth Day Hootenanny inside last Thursday, but that didn I stop freshmen Andy Vota and Tommy ingnicniig iodk ai iyneiilisiﬁiiciaiiiclii iwai. ,g§,-,§’,', American  an
Eisposito, senior Fred Haring and junior Chris Holmes from celebrating.

    

  
   
    

  

 
    

   

  Fumlture Dealers Barn artment f0r.Rent _ 0»  
For your extra pieces of furniture _ _ _ _ _ . ‘ I V ’LiEXII]g:t0Il  

.115 s. Main St. Lexington 463-2742 For two people In "a pnvatg faculty. 130 s'Mms'" ‘lid MS” 9i1“°°" 4637969 
' i . Stalls, individual turnout, use iofia ring, * - T T‘ 1‘;

_ M; 91-»  — jumps and trails. Price negotiable.  § 5:

i. @%7 (ja11Nick at 992.1059 1990 Mustang Convertable LX 5.0 ‘r

 

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS Racmg Green’ Whlte top  Leather’
' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving All Optlfmsa 149000 m1le5> always

STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT I 9 garaged. As new.
'11 W. Nelson Street Robby Jones   9 3..fl’l. - 5  

 

   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
     
   
   
   
   
 

Lexington, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022 A I i f _ i
r T“     xi OUTI g - 2
W&L-Art N , mu F . M , dW0men,sA.mivear- ezzée 4 e/.u!cm»mm!
  s;;i:.w.i.,:::i°§i...:*ii2i*..n%  t at LEE-H1
'Si natures. Everyday_-GUARAN'I_‘El§D_! We receive. _ Breakfast BuffetFriday & Saturday
Fnzhngh Leeg i§_E_ Lee’ in; merchandise fromAn_iencas‘mostfarnousr_na1l Night 11 p_m_ to 4 a.m_
M. Mtley John Letcher orderhouses. New shipments Every Week! Ai1_U_Can Eat 34.39 V
«. Edward Valentine In—StoreWareliouse Sale on Nationally Famous. Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 3-H140 2

W&L C0pp¢rI>1atefhand-Colored Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear.’
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art ' ‘

Sculpture by Ron Tunison There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and '

p.m. A1l—U-Can Eat $4.99
Wednesday Night BBQ Night -choice of

Mary and George Washington pieces Women’s Clothing 1/ZR k  & Vsgﬁtalbla k $ 1 O 9 5
. ac " . 0 8 ac ' .
Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -? Saturday Night prime Rib
. NOW $3.00. Selected Henley Shuts reduoed_to*$3.00. Queen Cut 3 1 1 _95 King Cut $ 1 3 .95

@ ' ' . Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters - B
;1’eE)3da:£t\")Vr211's\l}l1nn§E}o4rii_)8treet m I 1y $40 __ mduced to $7.99 reakfast,  ancii Sinner served

4 miles North on Route 11

   
   
   

 
 

 
 

_ . Open Monday -__,.JSa,tur,day . Downtown (Robert E"."Lee Bldg.) we acce t Visa Mastercard Choice and :

.   _ 10 am: ' -530 P-m- .. I ‘ Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 P g
CK . Jj 703-463-9730 _ _ g

' ' ' ‘ *"’ Q-u-—‘£'_—-e’-—---nu":--— -—_-_v';_‘—7-*--_‘ ‘Hi i 2

Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards . , STUDENT SERVICESiBOX 1Z9Zll.PLAllTAlI0ll.FL 3331 i qudiotronics i

Now you can. have two of the most recognized and '  I L . 0 i cud“ I. .Aum° ' VIDEO ' CAR sumo i

. accepted credit cards in the worid...visao and Masicrcardo I Q '‘‘'‘‘““”s“ "“"‘S‘E“c‘“, ‘D! ' canon SONY '

cred" Cafds.-"in Y0!" name-" EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW ‘N I Cards Enclosed find 825 which is 100% refundable if not I ADCOM -V ALPINE
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! it . appnwed imnicdiaieiyi 9 - - _ .; ;:§H|BA mgAN12
VISA!’ and Mastcrcarde the credit cards you I - _ ' . s ' ’ - T ‘ I ' N _
deserve angrrseed f.or- io—Oif’ooEKNsr—$§:lAl;r§irii:Al§rm I NAME  .  V _ I ~iB<3§§3i'i - 3333}?
  j j i . _ V u ,l’(. U .
EMERGENCY CASH—TlCKETS—RES'I‘AURAN'IS—— : ADDRESS 9 _ i . .
HC_7l‘ELS—MOTELS—(‘AS-CAR RENTALS-— « V   -- ;c W N7

’ REPAlRS—ANDTO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! I CITY ' V " STATE _ZIP “ ' ' .:,’:g‘§;’§c‘§§’2,°,‘,‘;;f.”.?,.".;‘, 
v |  » “i I - MASTERCARD/VISA/DISCOVER 

. e ' .u'\:  i I‘ ' . ‘

. w“‘» . 046- 7%»;

3 ‘M item No credit I SIGNATURE , . . ' (8 -0) 8 666 K 2 . 7*»;

L . s,|tAl5‘:', 55"‘ lo security devﬁsit! ' noirzaamac-iuis-rogue:-aauuduunrucru-iaoisuinuiuui-tiountirie ' °‘;;,":;,:f,g:*;‘*;:,g;°;f;'f‘,;,{,",j,,°,d* ‘
. __ -_ . . V\wn.eII"-n 9:9; valabsol id guam ted” I vioaiuiegisimuuaecu-iurvisAusA.u-euiutfisuitcn-eoiui : 35°09“, R°,d_R°,,,,,,,,
- I P” “ Y " I $°"'°=' *"°°"“°" 100% GUARANTEED! --
_¢§,,‘-ca- .l_.__________n_9______’______J

 

  

Last Week:

WLax — W&L 10, Roanoke 9 OT (12-2)
M&WTennis — 1st at ODAC Champs.
MTrack — 3rd at ODAC Champs.
WTrack — 2nd at ODAC Champs.

  S

PAGE 6

Title ilttng-tum 1311?

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK & FIELD

This Week:

MLax — at Mt. St.
WLax — ODAC Championship 5/1
MTrack — at Lynchburg Invit.
WTrack — at Liberty Multi—event

Mary’s

Tennis exceeds goals

Women’s team first in O

DAC despite obstacles

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

lfovercoming obstacles is any indication ofthe
merit ofa team, this year’s women’s tennis squad
will go down in Washington and Lee history as the
best of all time.

Though three players of the top eight are study.-
ing overseas spring term, the team won its third
straight Old Dominion Athletic Conference title
handily this weekend. W&L claimed charnpion-
ships in every spot but No. 6 singles and No. 3

young team; only one player, Baker, has had any
championship experience. “We’ve exceeded our
goal,” she said. ‘

Baker is virtually a shoe-in to get a bid to the
National tournament, and she and Ayers hope to go
as a doubles team. Though the squad’s only Divi-
sion lll losses were to the first- and fifth-ranked
teams in the nation (and W&L beat 12th-ranked
Swarthmorc), the Generals cannot receive an auto-
matic team bid because the regional tournament,
which qualiﬁes two teams, is during exam period.

Even if a bid is obtainedW&L will be unable to
attend as a team because of a rule conceming
players on the original roster who will not go to the

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Ay, Batter Batter...

doubles.

A member of the Washington and Lee club softball team lofts a single during
yesterday's doubleheader. The Lady Generals are 4-2 on the season after games
against Hollins and Southern Virginia College for Women.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

The Liberty Hall Field will
host this weekend’s Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference
Women ’s Lacrosse Tournament,
thanks to Washington & Lee’s
10—9 overtime win at Roanoke
College on Sunday.

The Generals (12-2 overall,
8-0 in the ODAC) won their first
ever regular—season ODAC title
in a rematch of last year’s touma-
ment championship game. Se-
nior Paige Henke scored 25 sec-
onds into the ﬁrst overtime for
the one-goal victory margin.

Senior Lisa Dowling scored
four times to lift her single-sea-
son school record to 74. She is
two points shy of 100 for the
season. Junior Angie Carrington
netted three goals, including the
game-tying score with 1:15 re-
maining in regulation time.

Carrington is second to
Dowling in goals for W&L with
37, ahead of Henke (31), sopho-
more Nicole Ripken (30), and
sophomore Lindsay Coleman
(29). The Generals have scored
222 goals in 14 games and their
average victory is 16-7.

The Generals host Randolph-
Macon College, who beat
Bridgewater in a quarterfinal,
Friday at 4:00 p.m. on the Lib-
erty Hall Fields. Earlier this sea-
son, the Generals beat R-MC 18-
5 in a game in which Dowling
scored seven goals and added
five assists.

In the other semi-final game,
Roanoke will play Lynchburg
College at 1:30.

The championship game is
scheduled for Saturday at 2:00
p.m.

The Washington and Lee
baseball sqaud rode out the sea-
son on a 12 game slide to finish
1993 at 4-15 overall, 3-13 in the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence.

After a very promising 4-3
start, the Generals turned from
the Big Bad Wolf into Green
Jelly. Opponents outscored the
Generals 115-39 over the 12
game losing streak that ended the
season.

In the final weekend of play,
W&L dropped a home double-
header to powerhouse Guilford
College (5-1 and 4-0), and then
lost a a twin—bill at Randolph-
Macon College (11-3 and 6-4).

Senior captain Jon Hesse, the
team’s only member of the Class
of ’93, ended his career second
on the school’s all-time list for
doubles with 21. He batted a ca-
reer high .333 this season with
nine doubles, 2 home runs, and a
team-high 13 Runs Batted In. He
also led the team in hits (25), runs
(13), and slugging-percentage
(.533).

Hesse, who had started at
shortstop for W&L every game
since his sophomore year, struck
out only twice in 75 at bats.

Sophomore Bates Brown was
the team home run leader with
three. Classmate Duane Van
Arsdale hit .329 with two home
runs» (six career) and 12 RBI.
Freshman Graig Fantuzzi led the
pitching staff in wins (3), com-
plete games (3), innings pitched
(46.0), and strikouts (33).

All is set for the fight of the
decade. Bowe-Lewis? No.
Knicks-Bulls? No.Roanoke Col-
lege—Washington and Lee!

The two rivals will be un-
beaten in conference play when
they meet next Thursday, May 6
at Wilson Field for the men’s
lacrosse Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship.
Roanoke is ranked fifth nation-
ally in Division III, while W&L
is tenth. .

The Generals have climbed
three spots since the pre—season
rankings, while the Maroons have
fallen two places. Whether that
means anything will be decided
in front of a rowdy, jam-packed
Wilson Field crowd next Thurs-
day.

W&L improved to 9-2 over-
all, 5-0 in the ODAC, with con-
secutive routs of Hampden—
Sydney College (17-6) and
Guilford College (21-4) last
week.

Senior Wiemi Douoguih be-
came the 15th General in history
to reach 50 points in a season. He
now has 51 points: 31 goals and
20 assists. David Lefkowitz is
second on the team with 25 goals.

This Saturday, the Generals
will travel to Mt. St. Mary’s for a
meeting with their Division 1
squad. That will be the last game
before the Big One next Thurs-
day, which precedes the May 8
Lee-Jackson Classic.

“We had a wonderful season,” said ODAC
Player of the Year, sophomore Marilyn Baker. She
was the number one singles champion and shared
the No. 1 doubles title with freshman Julie Ayers.

Other singles winners included freshman Shelley
Sunderman, Ayers, freshman Helen Chandler and
sophomore Leslie Copeland. Sunderman and Chan-
dler claimed the No. 2 doubles championship.

“It was fantastic—the most championships
we’ve ever had,” said coach Cinda Rankin, who
was victorious in her own discipline,claiming the
honors for ODAC Coach of the Year.

She was amazed at the success of her very

tournament.

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Captain John Hunter fends off his Guilford competitor during Washington and Lee’s

21-4 blasting of the Quakers last week.

Record-setters run around

From Staff Reports

If it’s true that the third time is the charm, the
Washington and Lee track teams will be sitting
pretty next year.

Both the men and the women repeated their
performance from last year’s Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championships, with respective
third and second places Saturday at Bridgewater
College.

Honors for performance of the day go to the
men’s 400-meter relay team of juniors Scott Covey
and John Robinson, freshman Dax Mahoney and
sophomore Hayne Hodges, which gained first place
in conference record time of 42.5 seconds. This
time is only two-tenths of a second away from
provisional qualification for Division 111 National
Championships.

Leading the men, as he has done all season, was
Greek God (yes, an ODAC athlete was actually
overheard calling him that) Mahoney. He earned
Athlete of the Year honors after winning the 200-
and the 400-meter dash and participating in the
winning 400- and 1600-meter relays.

Senior David Phillips also had an Olympian
performance, winning the 1 10-meter hurdles, plac-
ing second in the 400-meter hurdles and running in
the 1600 relay.

Other individual champions included Robinson
in the 100-meter dash and senior Harrison Shull in
the high jump. Shull soared over 6-6 in his final
ODAC appearance.

“We improved in almost every event, both in-

 

  

 

door and outdoor,” said coach Norris Aldridge. The
Generals fell only 17 points behind first-place
Lynchburg and three points from second-place
Bridgewater.

' It was the same old story for the women, who set
several conference and school records and scored
voluminous amounts of points, but fell 27 points
short of first-place Eastern Mennonite College.

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer had a run—of-the-
mill outing, winning both the 1500- and the 3000-
meter runs in conference record time. Classmate
Sandra Holmes was the General’s only other indi-
vidual champion, mastering the javelin throw.

Holmes, who earned the second-highest point
total for W&L at 22, also set a new school record in
the discus throw.

Other record setters Saturday included junior
Wendy Neel, who shaved ﬁve-tenths of a second off
her 100 time, and sophomore Sarah Gilbert, who
finished the 400 hurdles 3.5 seconds better than her
former school-record time.

Gilbert was the most prolific point-scorer of the
Generals, earning 35.5 points while competing in
more events than she could count.

Both the men and the women are hoping to obtain
National-qualifying performances in post—season
competition. The men’s 400 relay is the brightest
hope, but Mahoney in the 400, senior Bo Hannah in
the 5000 and 10,000 and Phillips in the 110 hurdles
are also pursuing qualification.

Schaeffer, whose l0,()00 performance at Duke
was a provisionally qualifying time, will try for an
automatic at University of North Carolina May 8.
The Duke race was her first-ever attempt at the
event.

W&L is down for the tournament, but not out.
The players are looking forward to next season, as
everyone will be returning.

“Our team is improving and there is a lot of
promise for the future,” said Baker. Rankin praised
the spirit of the team.

“The enthusiasm was contagious,” she said.
“As soon as we won the championship, they were
immediately looking forward to next year.”

With two athletes hoping to go to Nationals and
an ODAC title, the team can hardly complain.

“It’s so exciting,” said Rankin. “I never dreamed
that we would be so good.”

APRIL 29,1993

Golfers claim third

By Keith Grant 9‘
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee golf team placed third in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Championship in Richmond, 27
strokes behind champion Guilford.

Guilford golfers placed one-two, and W&L’s Pearce Smithwgck
claimed third place with a 158, nine shots back.

Smithwick and teammate Bo Williams were both named to the
All-Toumament team. Williams shot a 163 to place sixth.

Guilford defended their 1992 title with a 630 for the two-day
affair. Hampden—Sydney followed at 647, ten ahead of W&L.

Washington and Lee has won the tournament six times, most

recently in 1990 and 1991.

Last week, Scott Redmond shot an 82 in his first collegiate roﬁnd
to lead the Generals to a second place finish at the Virginia Wesleyan/
ODAC Invitational. Also last week, Jimmy Kull shot a 38 to win the
rain-shortened Shipbuilders Invitaional in Newport News.

W&L had a 9-4-2 regular season record, their 22nd consecutive

winning season. '

Men’s tenniswins ODAC;
MacNaughton leads way

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The last time the Washington
& Lee men’s tennis team failed
to win the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference title, Ronald
Reagan was seeking re-election
and Barry Bonds was in high
school.

The Generals won their ninth
straight title, and their 14th in the
ODAC’s 17 years of competi-
tion. W&L won eight out of nine
flights for the title.

Junior Robbie MacNaughton
took ODAC Player of the Year
honors.

He won at No. 1 singles and
teamed with Peter Hammond to
win at No. 1 doubles.

MacNaughton and Hammond
are 17-6 on the year and are
ranked sixth.

Hammond also won at No. 4
singles.

Chris MacNaughton teamed
with Wes Ruggles to win at No.
3 doubles, while David Schweppe
and Robert Wein won at No. 2
doubles.

MacNaughton, Ruggles, and
Schweppe were all singles win-
ners as well.

Generals head coach Gary ‘

Franke was awarded the ODAC
Coach of the Year Award for the
seventh time.

W&L gave Hampden—Sydney
its first loss of the season last
week, 7-2. That upped the G§n-
erals to 6-6 in dual match compe-
tition and 3-0 in the ODAC.

 

MacNaughton

   
     

Caring, stable single female

 

 

 

 

 ///

/ « ' ’ % school teacher desires to
/ ' . / adopt a baby. Financially secure.   
é , .. ' ‘ % Can provide loving & fun family.
Z , - _. é Call collect 804-572-8403 or   ,
Z  U A, g write P. o. B3Xt:i55.£oum Boston.    u

Three months till summer; do you have a job? é " 33,   _ ; _ .' g —' -d

Resumes - Cover Letters . Flyers . Copies - Binding g I Wmterchandzse « é Florida Spring Break 1 Medicine can affect your balancﬁ, C0
Come see us -- we’ll make you look good! ¢ 507 0 - ' . ' / 7 nights Beachfront $119-149 _ 0rdination.and_v1s_ton as riiduc asd
. / 23 N. Main St. 0 J7 (703)463-5988 / Deadline soon. ?1°°.*‘°1-A“9§d‘?“1““g°E‘3 its me‘
If" NEl:lSio(l3Il\Jsl;31:‘E:T63-LI1:j'gI2 N. C:AS)§: 463-6918T Q g Lexinton, VA 24450 _ ' /Z Reserve rooms Now! iiitiiensiiiieiyriiigziigitin. o
" ' . °T° ‘A ° “‘° “‘“°S °F“°E  % Ca1lCMI 1-800-423-5264 Mo1nncycL5sArmrounnAT|oN .. J
= _ 

 

For Rent:

In Lexington, available June 15

1 B.R. duplex apt. Ca1lMike.

Flint at White/side Realty 463-1187 E, Neisongst,

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30’a.m.-6 p.m.

Valley  2

Hardware, Paint and Related Items 0

Lexington 463-21

Sun..1-5 p.m.

 
 
   
      

month for the unit.
— Great Location

i
4 B.R. home, 3 B.R. home, ‘
l

l
i

 

Apartment for Rent

Cateiing to W&L Students — Two—bedroom apartment for
rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk from
the W&L campus. $150 per month, per bedroom. $300 per

 

— Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet
— Landlord Pays for Water, Including Hot Water

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown,
at 463-3013.

86

