Tl iii‘: ut€l‘~2.lEa3t‘lV Litiﬁitm
WAS?-llNGTON\& L'EE uNivERsﬂtt_
IEXINGTON, VA. 24450 /"‘p

 

ToNs 0’ FUN!

SEP9

Lexington Has More L
To Offer Than Pizzaand
Fraternity Parties

I992;

..

The Generals in Cl nutshell
13

Fall Season
Gets Underway
Next Saturday

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlt‘

VOLUME 91,- FRESHMAN ISSUE

«EC has
work cut
.out for it

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee, W&L’s
student government, must complete
two tasks before students can get down
to business as usual: introducing the
class of 1996 to the Honor System and
organizing the budget.

The EC is made up of 13 students
representing each of the undergradu-
ate and law
classes. New

resentativesare
elected each
spring. Fresh-
men will elect
their represen-
tative this fall.

EC Presi-
dent Josh
MacFarland

 

MacFa rla nd

System orientation for freshmen will

. not change this year, but will be pre-
sented more formally than in the past
few years.

Freshman men are expected to wear
jackets and ties and women should
also dress appropriately for Tuesday's
meeting, MacFarland said.

V ‘ ‘I think the Honor System orienta-
tion is very important,” MacFarland
said. “I want as much seriousness to
the orientation as possible so the fresh-
men realize how integral it is to life
here at W&L.”

MacFarland said the Honor System
orientation for faculty members will

0 be different this year than in previous
years. He said undergraduate and law
students have complained about some
new faculty members disregarding the
Honor System in the past.

This year, each incoming faculty
member received a letter during the

. summer explaining the Honor System
and will attend a special orientation.
Each new faculty member will also
receive a visit from an EC member.

The EC’s next order of business
will be organizing the budget. He said
the activity fee charged to each student

. was raised $15 this year, which will
mean an extra $30,000 available to
student organizations.

“Hopefully some new clubs will
form,” MacFarland said.

All student organizations, such as
sports clubs, service organizations and
specialtyclubs, who want funding will
submit requests and have a chance to
justify their proposed budgets to the

» ' EC. After hearing all requests, the EC

decides how much money to allot to
each group. Last year, the EC allo-
cated about $200,000.
MacFarland also wants to keep a
‘closer watch on the various commit-
tees and organizations the EC over-
sees. MacFarland will be looking care-
fully at the Student Conduct Commit-
tee and the new Student-Faculty Hear-
ing Board, which mediates complaints
about harassment on campus.
0 “I want to make sure they are liv-
ing up to expectations,” he said.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

upperclass rep- ,

said the Honor '

Freshman Orientation Committee Vice Chairman Teresa Williams (left) and Chairman Robert
Wilson paint banners Thursday In preparation for the arrival oi the class of 1996.

New orientation planned

Photo by Leigh Allen, The R/'ng—tum Phi

4 By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi Assistant News Editor

This year’s new and improved freshman orientation
program will give freshmen a better chance to get to
know each other and learn more about W&L than in past

years, according to its plarmers.

Small discussion groups, a professional ice—breaking
group and a new freshman class Record will all serve tu
better orient the freshmen, according to Robert Wilson,
Freshman Orientation Committee chairman.

‘ ‘We felt our orientation was behind the times in
terms of what other schools like W&L are doing,”
Wilson said. ‘ ‘We wanted to give the freshmen a warmer

welcome. ’ ’

The revamped program is the result of me months of
planning by the 42-member committee,

Wilson

ilson said.

The first evidence of the prograrn’s overhaul is the

new Freshman Record, with information about W&L,
its campus and its traditions that has never been included

before, Wilson said.

Sunday night's activity is an icebreaker for the fresh-
man class conducted by Playfair, a professional group
which conducts such events for colleges and businesses
around the country. Wilson said this is the first year a

professional group has been used.
Another new concept is the small discussion groups
which will meet twice during orientation. The groups of

 

freshman class outing, an Adopt-A—Freshman barbecue
and the activities fair.

The goal of the orientation, Wilson said, is to make
the freshmen feel welcome at W&L.

“This should give a better opportunity to meet each
other and absorb the traditions and character of the
school,” Wilson said.

10-15 freshmen with two
upperclass leaders are de-
signed so freshmen can
learn more about the school
and meet classmates in a
setting other than dormi-
tory halls. »
A “The small groups pro-
vide a setting for the fresh-
men to make friends across
» I the class, not just with the
‘ people on their halls,” Wil-
son said.
Wilson said orientation
will include traditional
events as well, such as a

SEPTEMBER 5, 1992

Class of ’96:
Biggest in
W&L history

By LEIGH Ai.Lm
PM News Editor

Washington and Lee's class of 1996
arrives in Lexington this weekend as
the largest in the history of the univer-
sity.

varsity team, up from 91 last year.

While each of the incoming classes
over the last few years has been strong,
Kozak said the quality of the best stu-
dents who choose W&L has been im-
proving.

‘ ‘We're deﬁnitely improving at the
top,’ ’ she said, citing an increase in the

According to number of appli-
the W&L Ad- cants for honor-
missions Office, scholarships.
the435 freshmen The class of
who will ma- ’96 also offers
I r i c u l a t e  ' ’ “ ' '  .- .=-:: ’  W&L strong
W e d n e s d a y ' Appjicams geographic di-
were accepted  .    ~ - ~  -- :.  .. versitywithstu-
from 3 P001 0f Offered Admission dents coming
over   .. .   .     -. from  
cants. ~j Matriculants and 6 foreign

uwevre    .   

ting more very,

 
    
 
  
  

  

 

eluding Canada,

 

 

Very strong StU- p I  . - . . -.  --: .. - Belgium’ Swit-
dents,” said Private School 36% zerland and In-
 Kozak’ as- A. ' : 3' :':-i»‘.‘.':-:3 ' . :»:i:’.» ‘-2 ’ ’- -- ., '   
sociate director * Men/Women 63/ 37°/oj.j' Almoughthe
of admissions. " ’     _» »  ~   competition for
The class > Nallonai  Flnlailsls V  -3:" acceptance to
 31  vaiicailiin.        .49  W&L 
tional M6fll Fi- I 2' strong, the Ad-
 and  -'   ._:.-: ;;:~:_:-':» 2;:-;_ .- : . . -I  J‘  
S1ud<=mS.Wh0ﬁn- ..PV33'.'5’*?‘.‘_'°” Ed“9F$ . , 52. .a points out that
:f.§..$;!}’§f,°i  “l€l9f._9T9PP. Ptesidems   iii“... 
school graduat-  -I  A  I  i A tee admission.
ingclasses.Their 3 i‘ia‘l?[‘a' 3,999.7 ‘°ff‘,’__°.'?‘V   _ While 371
3312353. 132? Key 9'”.b., ,,,,, , §‘X‘}""ie‘¥£Z'l,
H0WeV6r.Ihe ‘ I ' scores below
class of ’96 did 600 were admit-
notlimittheirachievementstotheclass- ted, over 500 applicants with scores

room. Fifty-two students were editors
of a school newspaper, yearbook or
literary magazine.

Most of these figures are similar to
those of the last few incoming classes.
However, the most signiﬁcant change
is on the athletic ﬁeld: 149 members of
the class of '96 were captains of a

higher than 600 were rejected.

A strong college preparatory cur-
riculum was important in helping stu-
dents gain admission. Sixty-three per-
cent of the freshmen have already had
calculus and over 75 percent of the
incoming freshmen took Advanced
Placement courses in high school.

Fraternities, sororities prepare for coming year

By CRAIG BURKE
Phi Staff Writer

Fraternity ﬂags are ﬂying and stu-
dents are wearing shirts with their fra-
ternity and sorority letters, leaving no
doubt that the Greek system plays an
important role in the lives of many
W&L students.

About 85 percent of men at W&L
belong to fraternities. Members say
the Greek system, which includes 15
chapters, allows them to meet more
people than they would otherwise.

Sophomore Torn Day said the fra-
ternity system helped him meet people

far from his home state of Nebraska.

“Being from the Midwest, I knew
very few people here at W&L, ” he
said. ‘ ‘Going through fraternity Rush
allowed me to make a lot of new
friends.”

The lives of most W&L men for the
next few weeks will center around
Fraternity Rush. During Rush, fresh-
men will meet members of the frater-
nities and decide if a fraternity is right
for them, while the fraternity members
will cull through the masses of fresh-
men to find those who would fit in
their brotherhood.

The Interfratemity Council is the
fraternity system's governing body.

Welcome to The Ring—tum Phi

Welcome to the Phi. I'll be your tour guide to your favorite reading material every Thursday.

Here on page one is the most important news going on at Washington and Lee. More news can often be found on page
six, and if it’s a really busy week there could be even more news pages.

Pages two and three are your editorial and opinion pages. This is your place to say what is on your mind and be sure
most of W&L will read it. All you have to do is write a letter to the editor or a My View column and send it to Francesca
Kefalas at the Phi office. The pages will also feature two W&L humor columnists, writing on alternate weeks, and two
nationally syndicated colunmists, George Will and Christopher Matthews.

General Notes and Talkback will also be found on page three. General Notes is a good place to post notices and find
out what’s going on at W&L. Talkback presents the Phi’s question of the week to students like yourself. If you see a big
guy nmning around campus with a camera and asking questions, talk to him. He is Jamey Leonardi and he really wants
to ask you a question and take your picture for Talkback.

Pages four and five are the features pages. They will tell you all about the entertainment and lifestyle aspects of W&L.
Joyce Bautista is dying to hear about anything you think is worthy of a feature spot. There is also an advice column. If
you want good, free advice and can wait until Thursday, just Ask Dr. Worth. You can send questions to University Center

Coordinator Carol Calkins.

Last, but certainly not least, are the sports pages. They'll usually been pages seven and eight. Sean 0 ’Rourke will make
' sure all you need to know about the in-season sports and ‘athletes will be there for your perusal.
Well, there’s the Phi and, just in case you were wondering, below is the football cheer where we our name came from

almost a hundred years ago:

Each other’s back, boys, has got a knack, boys,

For making gains, sir, round the end.

And it’s a sin, sir, for Oberlin, sir, [a W&L player]
To buck the V.M.I. boys’ line so awful hard.

Sure enough.

Then join the yell, boys, and yell like hell, boys,

To W&L U., boys, and football, too, boys,
Let's give a rousing, rumbling, roaring football yell.

Ring-tum phi, stickeri bum,

We are the stuff from old Lexington!

IFC projects this year will include a
new format for accepting ._
bids, or invitations to join _T
a fraternity, and the
completion of Fraternity
Renaissance.

Fraternity Renissance
is a project in which the
administration and the IFC 
have been working to- -'
gether to improve frater- .
nity housing. The fratemi-
ties turn over the deeds of
their houses to the school.
In return, the school makes
much-needed renovations
to the houses.

    

Eubanks

The fraternity house is traditionally
, home for a fratemity’s

i officers and its sopho-
more class, as well as a
place for meetings, par-

ties and meals.
The

sororities.

Panhellenic
Council is the governing
body of W&L’s four so-
rorities. The PHC has a
busy year ahead, as it
looks to sorority Rush in
January and the future of

‘ ‘Panhellenic is going
to concentrate on sup-
porting the leadership of

our newest sorority, Pi Beta Phi, ’ ’ PHC
President Carrie Eubanks said. “We
want to help [its members] along and
aim for the colonization of a fifth so-
rority in 1994.”

Though fraternities have existed at
W&L for over a hundred years, the
first three sororities colonized in 1989,
four years after coeducation. A fourth
sorority was added in January.

The IFC includes a representative
of each fraternity and a slate of officers
elected by those representatives. The
PHC board is made up of a representa-
tive and an alternate from each soror-
ity. The offices rotate each year among
the four chapters.

Catch !

Varsity football coach Gary Fallon tosses a ball to quarterback Geren Steiner during practice
on Thursday. You can catch the Phi tall sports preview on page four.

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Fling-tum Phi

 

  
 

PAGE 2

    

Ellie ‘tiling-tum lﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Looking past
the mountains

In the countryside of western Virginia, nestled among
rolling green pastures spotted with structures of quaint
historic architecture, under skies that are always — well,
usually — blue, lies the picturesque community of Lexing-
ton.

Not many people live in Lexington; a lot just pass through.
For those who stop on a clear day, especially those from the
big city, the town's horizons are a sight to behold.
Mountaintops litter the view, rising to meet the clouds.
Seemingly unchanging from year to year, the mountains can
give the people of Lexington a sense of serenity and secu-
rity; quiet sentinels, they watch over usand protect us.

But the same mountains that keep out the big-city hedo-
nism and give Lexington its small-town spirit can also seal
off the community from the outside world.

The same time the United States and its allies began to
assault Iraq in Operation Desert Storm in January, 1991,
CNN began an assault on Lexington. A rude and uninvited
guest, the Cable News Network disrupted our daily lives

‘with news from the “outside.” We cared because our broth-

ers and sisters were going to war. We were drawn into the
affairs of the outside world.

But when the L.A. riots happened in May, not much
notice was taken at W&L. L.A. is far away, and students
don’t know many people there. And the riots concerned the
issue of race, an issue to which W&L is not exceptionally
sensitive. Here in Lexington, it was easy to close our
shutters, tune out our televisions and gaze at our mountains.

The temptations for a W&L student like yourself to turn
your back on the outside world will be enormous. You will
have academic and extracurricular obligations, and in all
that, you might want to squeeze some kind of social life. In
Lexington, there isn’t a newspaper stand on every comer,
and the local paper covers only local news. You can‘t get
television without cable, so you won't see much of Peter
Jennings in the coming months.

Here at The Ring—tum Phi we will help sometimes by
covering local tie-ins to stories and issues from the outside
world. But our primary function is to cover W&L. We have
neither the space nor the resources to give you a full picture
of what’s going on out there.

So we ask you to keep one recommendation in mind as
you enrich your life for the next four years at W&L: don’t cut
yourself off. Don’t give in to the enormous temptation to
live in a Lexington vacuum. Make an effort to read a
newspaper, a Washington Post or New York Times, at least
once a week. Find a television somewhere to take in the
national news every now and then. Make an effort to talk
about the news with your peers. Stimulate your mind by
meeting new people and joining new extracurricular groups.
Socialize with people from all walks of campus; don’t get
caught in a social rut. Remember that you came to W&L not
to view the world in a new way, but in a thousand new ways.

Of course, we don’t want you to go too far in the other
direction, either. When the problems of the world seem to be
weighing on your shoulders, trapped somewhere in your
backpack among the hundreds of pages of reading you’ll be
be tested on the next day; when the dorm halls are ﬁlled with
the revelry of those students who just never seem to have as
much homework as you do; and when it seems you can‘t
count on anyone or anything to be consistent from one day
to the next; there’s one sureﬁre way to forget your woes, at
least for a little while: go outside and look at the mountains.

OPINION

M ILL. _
"zg H4\".'rzr

/"I /(4
NEE.) \(DJlZ.

'M‘3’¢£
zo writs‘

'.> z'f\/TON ’ ‘
”‘ 'E.TA5.‘

The Ring-tum Phl, September 5, 1992

P3esNl\r>r»r'r IKM 'I""l
IN/JlL§A(:.N gANEK 305'

3 TJALL-Y
L FOK
You -ro c.o~tE

gut’ DWI
n~ro;;§,,,,.

NEED HELP’
mil )’°“2 ENTER 1 H5

 DLLMS .

z€,(,lSTlATrer‘
EEFDEE Y0”

r‘~\ '50“ "" I,
l-’«'<E€HW<" "‘ P

Ah”) 1 ;AND I'M D0 ‘(D9
  
xi
Mo»: )i"C“A'E gut! A
ﬁg VJ DEE

\ 7
.Li (.A  gLoCK'

Mix in the madness

MY VIEW

By Dennis G. Manning

Seneca, Latin moralist and philosopher,
claimed that, “There is no genius without a
mixture of madness.” I am assuming that all
freshmen admitted to W & L -- with the impri-
matur of our admissions ofﬁce — are certifiable

I recall one of my hallmates my
freshman year, whom we
thought of as an intellectual,
gulping down a Siamese fight-
ing fish for a $10 wager.... These
were the same people who whiled
away hours upon hours discuss-
ing poetry and politics, Keats
and Kant, Christianity and athe-
ism.

geniuses (or is it genii?) and therefore they will
ease into the classroom faster than a colt breaks
into its first canter. Well okay, those first steps
may look a little wobbly, but a smoother gait
always ensues.

But what about this mixture of madness —
this essential ingredient in genius? I remember
my brush with genius as a freshman. I recall one
of my hallmates my freshman year, whom we

Freshman year brought boxers

thought of as an intellectual, gulping down a
Siamese ﬁghting ﬁsh for a $10 wager. Or what
about another one of my intelligent “friends”
who displayed a clear glass bottle in his room
filled with lint he collected from his navel?
(These people actually exist: one is a successful
attorney and the other a promising film director.)

These were the same people who whiled

away hours upon hours discussing poetry and -

politics, Keats and Kant, Christianity and athe-
ism, thinking all the time they were closing in on
genius-level status while one failed to complete
his reading of the first three acts of King Lear for
a British literature survey and the other neglected
his analysis of the Krebs’ Cycle for an introduc-
tory biology course.

But madness — frivolity, if that makes you
more comfortable — must have certain limits or
else genius will never be begotten. I won’t pre-
tend to be able to deﬁne those limits —- ﬁsh and
lint may not seem too terribly mad to you. Walk
gingerly to those limits —— don’t move breakneck
at them or, before you can right yourself, spin out
of control and beyond them. Don’t forget your
own mortality, your own vulnerability.

Tragedy and gaiety; terror and beauty; (ge-
nius and madness?); what Yeats called antinomies
are the mysterious core in each of us, reminding
us of our own mortality. The ivory tower is a
refuge where such thoughts about time are out of
mind. Where or when else does such an inter-
weaving of genius and madness make students at
times seem younger (or less mature?) than they
actually are, and graybeards, like me, feel less
decrepit than we should? I know you will, as all
freshman classes seem to do, invigorate us with
your youthfulness and show us the right “mix—
ture of madness!”

Dennis G. Manning is dean of freshmen.

Welcome «

to ayear

ofchangesl

ASK DR. WORTH

By Dr. James Worth .

Q. What can you say to the incoming freshmen that
might ease their transitions into W&L?

A. A few freshmen seem to make the transition with

virtually no anxiety, no self-doubt, no homesickness, no.

backward glances or concerns about the future. These are
the exceptions. Most of you, whether you talk about it or
not, will find your enthusiasm and excitement at least
somewhat tempered by the need to face new academic and
social demands and to accept the changes that are occurring
as you move beyond the relationships and routines of high
school days.

The following are a few thoughts which might help you ’

along the way:

(1) Trust the selection process. You wouldn’t be
here unless out Admissions staff, a very competent and
experienced group,
hadn’tdeterrnined you
have what it takes to
survive at W&L.
Maybe not everyone
can consistently be on
the Dean's List but in
my experience every-
one who has been ac-
cepted has the intel-
lectual juice to gradu-
ate, provided they put
in the necessary effort.

(2) If you are
willing to take the risk
of extending yourself,
you can make friends

Worth can be submit-
ted in person or
anonymously to either
Room 128 of the Uni-

Carol Calkins in the
University Center.

here, no matter who Q

you are. Don’t expect 100 percent success. Not everyone
you meet will be available for friendship. There may be
disappointments. But no matter what your interests, your
biases, your predilections, or for that matter your.shortcom-
ings, there are others out there who will connect with you
and like you. The only catch is that you have to be available.
If you don’t take the risk to extend yourself sincerely for
friendship, perhaps for fear of not being accepted, you will
greatly increase the likelihood of being lonely or isolated.
_ (3) The biggest single threat to succeeding here
academically is poor time management. Few come to
campus with really good time-management habits. If you
find_ you are doing low-importance tasks but are not com-
pleting high-importance ones, if you regularly feel there
simply aren't enough hours in the day, if you seem often to
be ‘ ‘a day late and a dollar short, ’ ’ these are signs you need
to improve your time-management skills.

If so, talk to somebody about it. Go to a successful
upperclass student, your major advisor, the two counselors
on campus or most any dean. The hardest part is realizing
you are deﬁcient in these skills and need assistance.

(4) Don’t spend much time worrying about what
you should major in or what your ultimate career choice
will ‘be. If you do happen to know these things, that's fine.
But if you don’t, it’s O.K. Find books, classes and activities
that interest you. See what stimulates your curiosity. Ex-
periment. Read a book or take a class simply because it
interests you, not because it is required. As you follow your
interests, your life direction will emerge.

(5) Think of ways you can give things back to the
community, both W&L and the larger Lexington commu-
nity.'Ihere are many ways to give. Both on- and off-campus
groups exist which you can join that contribute to the well-
being of the folks here. What you will discover, I believe,
is that the more you give, the more meaningful your
experience here will be.

(6) Make a point of getting to know your profes-
sors personally, especially the ones you like best. Believe
it or not, the majority of them are not merely available but
eager to know you , particularly if you are not “apple
polishing" but are genuinely interested in them and their
courses.

About the Phi .

The Ring-tum Phi, W&L's

uestions to Dr.‘

versity Center or to’

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlti‘

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joshua Manning

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Leigh Allen

Assistant News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Whitney Swiﬁ

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published’ Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
fund. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appearin that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court defini-
tions of libel and obscenity. .

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

ONE GUY’s OPINION
By Chris Citron

I'm curious ladies. Which do you
prefer: boxers or briefs? It’s been
buggin’ me since my freshman year,
and I don’t think that a definite conclu-
sion has yet arisen.  let's talk about
it.

When I ﬁrst came to W&L, I must
admit that boxers were not an integral
part of my wardrobe. I was a briefs
man. In fact, to go along with my
already established cheesy reputation,
I took briefs one step further.

I'm sorry, but yes, I owned the
Saturday Night Fever colored bikini
briefs. Everyone knows what I’m talk-
ing about.) Those red and blue and
green and black and striped (well, you
do need variety) “nut huggers” — as
someone so decently told me once -—
that you try to avoid looking at as you
walk through the men's department at
Macy's while thousands of manne-
quins border the aisles, proudly dis-
playing some patterns that could only
have been thought of under a really
bad acid trip. However, it’s what I
wore, and I was not only proud to wear

 

“Now can 400 9° _‘
-{Hg 17; I-{oU&s5LF.2

them, but anxiously awaited a call to
model them .in Macy’s.

Now, my roommate was from Ala-
bama. Needless to say, our styles didn't
exactly coincide. In fact, although I
was shocked to learn that he did not
own apair of briefs, I think that he was
a bit more surprised the first time he
saw my collection.

Roommate (laughing hysterically
and continuously for six minutes):
“Why would you do that to yourself?”

I've got to admit that I was a bit
caught.off-guard by his reaction, but
once I understood that he was not
laughing at apart of me, but rather my
underwear, I had to answer him. In
retrospect, I’ve come up with two an-
swers:

1) Boxers are for old men who no
longer need to hook up with girls. (Not
that I did any better....)

2) I liked being able to feel that
something was there. (How much/little
is irrelevant.) There was some security
knowing where my guy was all the
time.

However,myroomrnate piqued my
interest, and I was curious about these
“boxer things.” I defiantly protested
his suggestion to trying a pair, defend-

  
 

ing that it was impossible for boxers to
fit well under pants, and that my guy
might roam to places not suitable for
him without protection. (I don’t even
know what that means, so whatever
your evil little minds come up with is
fine with me.)

So, one day when I was... out of
underwear (Okay, so maybe I’ve got a
problem dressing in other guys’
clothes. So what? That would be a
psychological problem, if a problem at
all, and does not concern this argu-
ment.), I tried a pair of his boxers.

What an experience! I was a walk-
ing erection all day! It felt way too
good. Y’know, like sleeping in the
sheets naked by yourself. It just feels
way too good to be safe.

What do I do now? I think I like
them. So I wear them again. And again.
And again. Eventually, I had to wash
them, but each time I got alittle more

used to it. Now I can almost walk to -

class without getting aroused. Not bad
for about two years, heh?

Where does that leave us? It leaves
us with a disgusting story of how a
cheesy guy from New Jersey (N O, that
is not necessarily redundant!) ﬁnally
gota little bito’ class. And I do proudly
admit that I am a complete boxer con-
vert, having thrown out my last pair of
Bruts two years ago after a revolting
display of dancing took place in my
room by a fat guy. But is our question
answered? Of course not. In this col-
umn it never will be.

However, I know girls who love
boxers and hate “tighty-whities.” I
know girls who love briefs and can't
stand boxers. And finally, I know girls
who don’t care either way and ﬁgure
that it’s not the packaging, but the
package.

ofﬁcial student newspaper.
is published each Thursday

of the undergraduate calen-‘ ,

dar, except in the weeks prior
to and during exams.

Copies of the Phi are free
to W&L students and em-
ployees, and can be picked
up outside the Generals Head-
quarters in the University
Center and in the library.

The Phi is funded in part
from student activities fees,

with most of the operating "

costs coming from advertis-
ing revenues and subscrip-
tions to parents and alumni.
The Publications Board
chooses Phi editors and busi-

ness managers annually. 0

All students are welcome
to report, sell ads or contrib-
ute letters and columns’ for
The Ring-tum Phi. Letters

and columns are edited for g

grammar, libel and obscen-
ity only.

Any student interested in
working for the paper or just
learning more about the Phi
is invited to attend an orien-
tation meeting Wednesday,
Sept. 9 at4 p.m. in Room 203
of Reid Hall.

 

    
 

Town

of .

1

 

1

The Ring-tum Phl, September 5, 1992

‘Things to do in Lex

offers array of sights and activities

.,............,......... .3,-,-3.-..

By Jorca Baunsn
Phi Features Editor

Surrounding the conﬁnes of the
Washington and Lee campus lies the
sleepy historical city of Lexington.
Though small, the city offers plenty

‘for students to do and see during their
four-year stay.

The area’s specialty shops and res-
taurants are only a few minutes’ walk
from campus. The shops offer a wide
array of gifts and necessities.

Whenthedininghalland Domino's

Yizza have taken their toll, local res-
taurants offer dishes from fettucine
alfredo to came asada burritos.

For entertainment, The Fast Lane
bowling alley is located north on Route
1 1. Farther down Route 11 is a drive-
in theater to fill those sometimes un-

Oeventful weekend nights during the
early fall and spring.

For newer movies in a quaint the-
ater, try the State Cinema on Nelson
Street. And for those of you with ac-
cess to a VCR, Rockbuster and Be-
yond Video, both off Route 60, have a

Odecent selection of old and new ﬂicks.

If the munchies hit at 3 a.rn., you
could always stop atLee-Hi Truckstop,
past the drive-in on Route 11. You
can't miss it — the semis are a dead
give-away. Lee-Hi offers breakfast,

The Chessle Nature Trail
stretches from VMI island to
ZImmerrnan's Lock.

lunch and dinner selections 24 hours a
day, and prices are perfect for students
on a budget.
..._. The nation-

 . ally renowned
'  _ ‘ Virginia Horse
,_' Center, located

‘ V on U.S . 1 1,
houses facilities
for horse
shows, educa-
tional seminars

   

and horse sales.
The theater at Lime Kiln offers
I..exington citizens original profes-
sional productions in a setting that has
been called ‘ ‘the most unusual theater
setting in the United States.’ ’
W&L’s Lenfest Center for the Per-
forming Arts hosts
professional and
student produc-
tions throughout

FEATURES

on East Washington Street, next to the
Centel office.

One of the highlights on the ride is
the Stonewall Jackson House. The
house belonged to the famous Confed-
erate general and is a registered na-
tional landmark. Jackson was also a
professor of natural philosophy (now
knownasphysics) atthe Virginia Mili-
tary Institute.

Like W&L, VMI also has a rich
history and an abundance of notewor-
thy sites.

VMI was the first state-supported
military college. Opened in 1839, dis-
tinguished professors and alumni in-
clude Jackson, Matthew Fontaine
Maury and George C. Marshall.

The George C. Marshall Museum

is located on the
southern end of

The VMI Museum,lo- VM” P‘““d°

ground. This mu-

the year. Most of cated on the opposite seumandresearch

the programs are

library houses the

freeorofferedata end of the parade WorldWarIIU.S.
reduced price to ground, highlights the chief of staff’s

students.

personal papers as

N e a r b y history of the institute well as a collec-

Goshen Pass is a
favorite spot for

tion of material

and houses Jackson’s ,e1a,ing ,0 US.

students enjoying horse, Little Sorrell, who military and dip-

the scenic Maury

lomatic history of

Rim, For years, is stuffed and mounted the 20:11 century.

students have
tubed and pic- there‘ '

The VMI Mu.-
seum, located on

nicked at this spot

of natural beauty. It is also a great
place for canoeing, ﬁshing and trail
walking.

The Chessle Nature Trail begins at
VMI Island and is popular with run-
ners and hikers. Bird and wildﬂower
lovers will enjoy the abundant natural
wonders. The trail ends at
Zirnmerrnan's Lock near Route 60.

The breathtaking views seen from
the Blue Ridge Parkway have attracted
millions of visitors from around the
world. The parkway spans 470 miles
and four states. It can be accessed on
Route 60 near Buena Vista.

Further from the immediate area,
The Homestead Resort provides ski-
ing and ice skating in the winter. Un-
der 30 minutes away is Natural Bridge,
advertised as the “seventh wonder of
the world.”

For a better feel for the history of
Lexington, the city offers carriage tours
for $8 beginning at the Visitor Center

the opposite end of
the Parade Ground, highlights the his-
tory of the institute and houses
Jackson’s horse, Little Sorrell, who is
stuffed and mounted there.

Also on the VMI campus is a fa-
mous sculpture of Jackson created by
artist Edward Valentine and the sculp-
ture “Virginia Mourning Her Dead,”
honoring cadets killed in the Civil War.
Valentine was also the sculptor of the
reclining Robert E. Lee found in Lee
Chapel.

Yet anotherhistoric site is the Stone-
wall Jackson Memorial Cemetery. Lo-
cated on South Main Street, it grew
around Lexington Presbyterian
Church.

The cemetery is the burial ground
for several famous Lexingtonians and
their families as well as hundreds of
Revolutionary and Civil War veter-
ans. A statue of J ackson, completed by
Valentine in 1891, stands in the center
of the site.

  
  
 
  
  
 

Studying lnthesun onthe Maury
River is a good way to shake oft
those winter blues Spring Term.
This has been a favorite sun-
bathing and plcnicking spot
among students for years.

File Photos

Girls rollerskate under the
watchful eye of Gen. stonewall
Jackson In the cemetery that
bears his name.

  
 

The drive-In down Route 11 ot-
ters second-run movies stu-
dents can enjoy In an outdoor

- settln.

C

‘.

‘ O

0

 ~'»-_

..:,.~‘4't'rx .. «

Fret no more!!

 5'77"‘.  ':"'r,7‘"::rr*'r'r'::*~. ’?'?T' 7'.’-“‘* *1‘ 7" " ' 

Dreading all thoseletteirs home?  
The taste of stamps?
Rehashing everything that happened

in the past week?

The Ring—tum Phi will do it foryoull

;Have your parents buy a $25 year—long
subscription to W&L’s student newspaper

\

O

. . .And you won't have to write!..

Subscription forms are available in the University Center or call
The Ring-tum Phi office at 463-8581.

 

 

  Welcome

Freshmen

PAGE 4

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

Elie iﬁing -tum iﬂlti

SPORTS

This Week:

Football vs. Emory&Henry 9/12 ,
Water Polo— W&L Classic 9/12-13
Golf— W&L lnvlt. 9/l 1-12

SEPTEMBER 5, 1992

Fall teams lookto improve on 191 perfoances

By SEAN O'RoUiu<£
Phi Sports Editor

Your eyes are probably glancing
over this page through the
waterfall of sweat falling
off your brow and tears of
pain from strained
muscles only a Latin ma-
jor could pronounce.

You are now one of
themanytiredparticipants
in the freshman-moving-
in game. This event is
played out yearly on carn-
puses all across the coun-
try, but at least here you can take a
break and read an early edition of the
school newspaper.

Obviously you are somewhat inter-
ested in sports or else you would have
tossed this paper by now. If you are at
all interested, this is the column for
you. The Washington and Lee fall

sports season is right around the cor- V

ner and now is the time to provide you

 

with a general, no pun intended, pre-
view of what to expect.

First of all, a little background for
you on W&L sports. Our nickname is
the Generals and we are NCAA Divi-

sion III, exclusively. We
belong to the Old Do-
minion Athletic Confer-
ence, ODAC. Some of
our chief rivals in the con-
ference are the Hampden-
Sydney Tigers, the
Roanoke Maroons and
the Randolph-Macon
Yellow Jackets.
The fall action begins
Saturday afternoon, Sept.
12, as the Generals football team hosts
the eighth consecutive opening day
match-up with the Emory & Henry
Wasps. The Generals are winless in
the past seven and have not beaten the
Wasps since a 21-15 victory in 1982.

TheGeneralsare comingoffarough
1991 campaign. They posted a 1-9
record and were 0-5 in ODAC play.
They have a favorable schedule this

File photo

Leslle Hess spikes it past the outstretched arms of two
Emory&Henry players. The Generals are looking to improve on an
11-21 record with an interim coach.

 

year with five home games and only
four away, with a bye week after the
Emory & Henry game. But it all
begins with the Wasps at 1:30 p.m. at
Wilson Field.

The water polo team returns to the
pool Sept. 12-13 for the Washington
and Lee Fall Classic. The tournament
will be held in the Cy Twombly Me-
morial Pool in the Warner Center.

The Generals finished 15-10, the
15th consecutive above .500 season.
Under the guidance of head coach Page
Remillard, the Generals have been
Southern Water Polo Conference
Champions four times and rtmner-up
five times in 13 years. Remillard’s
stint as head coach has produced an
astounding 266-127-l record.

The men’s soccer team also had a
successful 1991 season. After ﬁnish-
ing 7-8-2 in 1990, the Generals re-
bounded to post a respectable 8-6-2
record, 4-3 in ODAC play. The Gener-
als reached the semifinals of the ODAC
tournament, onlytolose to soccerpow-
erhouse Virginia Wesleyan 1-0.

The Generals open their 1992 sea-
son with the Franklin and Marshall
Tournament Sept. 12-13. W&L won
last year’s tournament in an exciting
shoot-out. The team does not play in
front of the home crowd until Sept. 23
when they take on Guilford College.
That game is scheduled for 4 p.m. at
Liberty Hall Fields.

The women’s 1991 soccer season
was identical to the men’ s. The women
ﬁnished 8-6-2 and lost in the semiﬁ-
nals of the ODAC tournament to
archrival Roanoke College 1-0 in over-
time. The women lost six players to
graduation and a few others left the
team after last season. They now ﬁeld
a team with 17 girls.

The Generals open their season on
the road at Va. Wesleyan on Sept. 12.
Their first home game is Sept. 18
against ODAC foe Hollins College at
Liberty Hall Fields at 4 p.m.

One of the fall teams to undergo
drastic changes is the women’svolley-
ball team. They lost three girls to gradu-
ation and a coach. Four-year head coach
Susan Dittrnan is taking a one-year
leave of absence. So, W&L went out
and got one of the best players ever to
play for the University of Arizona
Wildcats.

Over the summer W&L hired Kritsti
Yarter, a May graduate, as an interim
coach . Yarter was afour-year letterman
for’ Arizona and ranked at or near the
top in almost every volleyball cat-
egory. She finished fourth in career

 

File photo

William Propst hauls in one of his 37 catches from last year. The Generals need a strong performance a
from its offense to compliment the talented defensive squad.

kills with 1,044 and second in blocks
with 276.

Yaiter has her work cut out for her
as the Generals come off a disappoint-
ing 11-21 year. The team opens 1992
at Christopher Newport College on
Sept. 12. They return home to host the
Washington and Lee Invitational Sept.
18-19 in the Warner Center.

The last of the fall teams to open
their new season are the men's and
women’s cross country teams. Both
teams open at home against Mary
Washington College on Sept. 19.

The men come off an impressive 8-

1 mark last year but they lost six rim-
ners, including standout Charles
Edwards. However, senior Bo Hannah
returns for his final season as the one to
watch for the men.

The women also lost four runners
to graduation, but return a host of
strong runners who competed heavily
last year. They are looking to improve
on 1991 ’s 5-3 finish.

Finally, the men’s golf team hosts
some of the top golf teams in Division
III in the Washington and Lee Fall
Invitational. The two-day event be-
gins Sept. 1 1 at the Lexington Country
Club. Their season does not officially
begin until the beginning of spring.

Well, there it is m a nut shell. A list
of the best W&L has to offer this fall in
terms of athletics. So, enjoy your year
and have fun moving the rest of the
stuff into the dorms, especially those
on the fourth floor of Graharn-Lees.

Until next week, Adios!

File photo

Goalie P.J. Walcus anchorsthe Generals water polo defense. W& L
is striving for its 16th straight winning season and a Southern
Conference championship.

Let’s talk.

Do you want to be ‘

just anotherstudent?
Or do you want to make   §

I

  _z.-1 difference? .

The Ring-tum Phi has staff positions open for: beat and general assignment reporters,

photographers, photo editor, computer graphics artists, editorial, page assistant, and ad
salesmen. To find out what a job with the Phi can do for you, come to the info session
for all freshmen, and we’ll talk afterward. Or contact the Phi: 3-8581 or Univ. Ctr. 208. v

WED the 9th, REI

 

203, 4 pm '

 

