   
 
 

  
 

I
l
I
I
l
I
I.

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
IEXINGTON, VA. 24450

SEP 18 1992

lHome1=92Jn ‘


 9

 
 

.24

HUNGRY?

New Restaurants Add Variety
to Lexington’s Cuisine 9

Return of Cl Tradition

Washington and Lee Plans Its First
Homecoming Parade In 25 Years

0

Now it’s the English turn

Soccer Takes
Center Stage With
Season Openers At Home

 

~ Uh ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

VOLUME 92, No.2

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Rushees sign up to visit nine houses in the freshman quad Sunday afternoon.

Rush kicks off
with big sign-up

By PAULINE MrrA
Phi Contributing Writer

Ninety-tliree percent of freshman
rﬂen signed up Sunday to endure the
first round of fraternity Rush parties
this week.

Forty more men will participate
this year than in last, Interfrateniity
Council Vice President Tom
Washmon said. Washmon credited the
ﬁcrease to a large freshman class.

“We’re pleased with the turnout
and hope that most of them will
pledge,” Washmon said.

Rushees each chose nine fratemi—
ties to visit during three days of Open
House parties. Washmon said the
most rushees one house received was
197, the least was 24.

Washmon said the IFC will begin
matching preference lists Thursday
night and will post schedules for the
first four Rush Dates Sunday at noon
in Evans Dining Hall. Bids can be
given out Wednesday and accepted
Friday at 5 p.m.

Some freshmen said they were
afraid to have their names printed

Photo by Pauline Mita, The Ring-tum Phi

V

with their comments about Rush.

“It’s alright once you get through
the damn line,” one freshman said.
“Don’t print that....I didn't say that.”

Other freshmen were -concemed
about the time Rush was taking away
from their busy schedules. “That’s an
hour and forty-five minutes at night
when we would be drinking,” one said.
“Rush sucks, no comment.”

Those men not pledging this fall
may participate in deferred rush or in
Alpha Phi Alpha’s potential winter
rush, Washmon said.

However, senior Curtis Joseph, a
member of the Alpha interest group,
said an Alpha chapter probably won’t
exist at W&L before winter term.

Joseph said the Alpha national of-
fice gave approval for the chapter to
exist at W&L, and a chapter will form
as soon as there are seven students,
with the qualifications to initiate. ‘

Joseph said he was encouraging all
freshmen who ask him about Alpha to
go through Rush because he felt it was
an important experience.

“I hope to get this chapter done by
the time I graduate,” Joseph said.
“We’re just waiting on the numbers.”

Photo by Amy French, The Fling-tum Phi

Rushees attended Open House parties this week.

First Rush weekend yields 13 arrests

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

Thirteen W&L students were ar-
resgd on the opening weekend of Rush

‘for alcohol-related violations as ABC
-agents and Lexington police cracked
down on offenses.

“We're not attacking students,”
Lexington Police Chief B.M. Beard
said. “We just want to let them know
th we will enforce the alcohol laws.”

‘wo agents from the state Alco-

uholic Beverage Control Board, along

with Lexington police officers, arrested

‘ students for possession of alcohol un-
‘ der the age of 21 and for being dnink in

public, W&LDirector of Security Mike

Young said.

e arrest numbers are down from

— this time last year, when 20 students

0'.

‘I

V;

I

fr

,‘\

were arrested on the first weekend of
Rush for alcohol violations.

Beard said ABC agents were
brought in to help the police over the
weekend, because the increase in alco-
htﬂ-related violations was anticipated.

“Except for the alcohol, it was a
good weekend,” Beard said.

Efforts to reduce alcohol offenses pay off

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

Arrests of W&L students for alcohol-related viola-
tions dropped 27 percent from 1990-91 to 1991-92
thanks to a joint effort by the school and the city.

Dean of Students David L. Howison said his office
has met with the Interfratemity Council, Lexington City
Police, Lexington Community Council, the Virginia
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and various student
leaders since the 1990-91 school year to plot ways to
decrease the number of student arrests.

“This is one approach to the broad issue of alcohol
abuse at Washington and Lee,” Howison said. “The
first topic we chose to address was the arrest record of
W&L students."

The result has been a steady decrease in alcohol-
related arrests such as underage possession, drunken-
ness in public, noise and litter since 1988. He said
although the overall number of arrests dropped, the
number of arrests for driving under the influence has
remained about the same.

Howison said he meets with every upperclass stu-
dent cited for DUI, and Dean of Freshman and Resi-

dence Life Dennis Manning meets with "freshmen ar-
rested for DUI.

Also in an effort to curb alcohol related problems on
campus, Manning and the dorm counselor staff instituted
a more stringent policy on alcohol possession and con-
sumption in the freshman dorms.

‘ ‘In the past, you got three or four strikes and then you
were referred to the [Student Conduct Committee],”
Manning said. “That was not a sufficient deterrent to
alcohol use in the dorms.”

Manning said a first offense will now result in a $25
fine and six hours of mandatory service in the library or
dining hall. A second offense will result in a $50 fine, 12
hours and parental notification of a pattern of alcohol
abuse. The third offense will result in a review of the
student's standing. Marming said it is possible that a
student would be asked to leave university housing after
a third offense, but said he hopes it doesn’t come to that.

“I know and the dorm counselors know that college
students tend to drink alcohol,” Marming said. “I think
it’s important for someone to impress upon the freshmen
that alcohol is not essential to the college experience.”

Howison said some students don’t realize it is a
misdemeanor to be drunk in public. He said cooperation
of the student body is essential to responsible alcohol use.

‘Hunky’t& Punky

‘ Some W&L graduates are never heard

“.

from again, but not Ryan Kull, '92.
4 Four months after leaving Lexington,
Kull appears in the Sept. 22 issue of the
supermarket tabloid Star with the former
tar of TV’s “Punky Brewster."
The caption underneath a picture of Kull '
»- and Soleil Moon Frye, who recently underwent
,, much-publicized breast reduction surgery,
reads: “Former ‘PunkyBrewster' star Soleil Moon .2: V
Frye is blossoming into quite a woman at 16. Ryan *7
nKull was her hunky date for a movie premiere.”

From the W&L News Office

    

S. Stephenson died June 21 in Roanoke.
He was 69 years old.

“When I die,” Stephenson told the
W&L Alumni Magazine in 1989, “the
notice should say ‘B.S. Stephenson
died today. He loved teaching.’ Next
obituary.”

Stephenson graduated from W&L
in 1942 and returned in 1947 to teach
German. He retired in 1991 as profes-
sor and head of the department.

In 1949, Stephenson founded the
W&L Concert Guild, a concert series

that brings outstanding performers in

Retired German professor Buford C

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 17, 1 992

Comer could
return to jail

By RICHARD PELTZ
Phi Acting Executive Editor

Charles Blakely Comer, the former
W&L student who served six months in
the Roekbridge County Jail for killing
a freshman in a hit-and-run accident in
1989, could soon be back behind
Roekbridge County's bars because of a
conviction in Georgia.

Comer has been on probation since
1990, when he pleaded guilty in the hit-
and-run case. Now Virginia probation
officer Bob Boyle wants Comer’s pro-
bation revoked because of the Georgia
crime.

Boyle would not comment on the
crime, but WDBJ-TV 7 in Roanoke
reported Comer was convicted of driv-
ing under the inﬂuence in Statham,
Ga., about 45 miles east of Atlanta. A
hearing on that request is set for Oct. 2
in Lexington.

Comer, a W&L junior at the time of
the accident, admitted he was driving
under the influence of alcohol whenhis
car struck and killed Mary Ashley
Scarborough on Washington Streetnear
Lexington City Hall.

Comerpleaded guilty to hit-and-run
and involuntary manslaughter. He was
sentenced to five years in jail, but four
and a half years of that sentence were
suspended.

Comer has been on probation in

I South Carolina and Georgia since serv-

ing the six-month term.
If Comer is found guilty of violating

I his probation, he could be jailed for the

full four and a half years left on his
original sentence.

WDBJ reported Wednesday that
Comer was arrested for driving with a
blood-alcohol level twice the legal limit.
He was fined $44, apenalty in Georgia
for a first-offense DUI, according to
WDBJ.

     

The Statharn Clerk of Court’s office
couldnotconﬁrm the conviction Thurs-
day morning.

Comer could not be located for com-
ment. His family in South Carolina did
not return telephone calls Wednesday
night.
The Scarborough family could not

~ »~ I .;..; 1.” be located
' for com-
ment by
press time
Thursday.

S c a r -'
borough’s
death in
1 9 8 9
s t u n n e d
and horri-
fied Wash-
ington and
Lee.Police
searchedin
vain for
suspects in the case for eight months,
until they received a tip naming Comer.

Acting on the tip, a Lexington po-
lice officer drove to Comer’s home in
Greenville, S.C., on Nov. 30, 1989, to
identify the ear that hit Scarborough.
Comer was arrested at W&L the same
day.
During a 1990 court appearance,
Comer testified that on the night
Scarborough died he told his three
W&L roommates what happened. He
then drove to northern Virginia to re-
pair his car, which was damaged in the
collision.

On the bench in 1990, Judge
Rudolph Bumgardner III talked about
the impact of the Comer’s actions on
W&L.

“This tragedy is compounded by
the attempts to cover up the truth,”
Bumgardner said. “This tragedy is a
low point for an institution known for
its honesty and integrity.”

-x, v_

   

Comer

Alumnus creates alliance
for W&L gays, lesbians

By KATY YDEL
Phi Staff Writer

Gay and lesbian W&L alumni and
students now have an organization to
call their own.

The Gay and Lesbian Alliance, or
GALA, is primarily for alumni but will
also be open to students, said director
Sean Bugg, ’89. So
far, GALA is

common experience at W&L.” Bugg
said the group will also let homosexual
students know that there are people
who have been through the same things
they are experiencing.

“It can be very uncomfortable to be
gay at W&L,” Bugg said.

Bugg said the idea for GALA was
formed while he was still a student at
W&L, but he has only recently had the

time to put the idea
into action. The

mainly a loose net-
work of about 20
alumni, most of
whom met while
students at W&L,
Bugg said.

Bugg said his
goals in forming
GALA include cre-
ating a newsletter
and providing information on gay- and
lesbian-related issues to the university
and to homosexual students currently
enrolled.

“I would hope the school would
look for some input from us” regarding
homosexual-related issues and projects
like AIDS awareness programs, Bugg
said.

Bugg said he hopes GALA will help
bring people together “who shared a

music to the campus.

Stephenson’s dinner parties for col-
leagues and students helped make him
a legend on campus. The parties were
one way Stephenson fostered the stu-
dent-faculty relationships he believed
were the essence of the W&L experi-
ence.

“The accessibility of faculty to stu-
dents here is just about the greatest
thing we have to offer,” Stephenson
told the Alumni Magazine. ‘‘I’m just a
person who takes the word ‘friend’
very seriously.”

Stephenson was buried June 25 in
the Clinton, N.C., Cemetery. He re-
quested that there be no service at W&L.

W8: L

 

group will be
based in Washing-
ton, D.C., with
members already

the country.

Jim Farrar, di-
rector of Alumni
Programs, said
GALA will only
serve to divide the alumni.

“The best way to keep the bond
between the university and our alumni
strong is through one cohesive alumni
association, not divided by a collection
of subgroups based on experiences as
students, or professional and personal
experiences as alumni,” Farrar said.

Farrar said the new organization
will be discussed by the Alumni Board
of Directors at its next meeting.

Stephenson: ‘He loved teaching’

 

Stephenson

 

 

spread out across

 

PAGE 2

    

Ellie iaing-tum lﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

A Footbridge
for the future

The fate of The Footbridge will be discussed Tuesday.

Not the big suspension bridge, that is, but the student
magazine that debuted last winter. And its fate should not be
interwoven with the Publications Board.

If you haven't heard of The Footbridge, we're not too
surprised. It didn’t make a very big splash.

In an exercise in open-mindedness last winter, the Pub
Board granted a group of student petitioners $500 for a go at a new
publication.

The board decided there was room at W&L for a news
magazine. The publication could cover W&L news issues with a
lengthy depth the Phi has neither the space nor time to accommo-
date, the board said.

Well, The Footbridge gave it a go. But the two pilot issues
the staff produced last winter and spring just didn’t cut it as news
magazines.

Last year’s big stories were reported rapes on campus, the
matter of the Watson Gallery, the re-establishment of Alpha Phi
Alpha, the suspension of Delta Tau Delta, the death throes of the
Conﬁdential Review Committee, and, as always, Fraternity Re-
naissance.

Not one of those stories was covered in the pages of The
Footbridge.

Some of The Footbridge’s stories did make for a good
read. Alex Ruskell’s ﬁrst-person piece, “Why I Love Elvis and
You Should Too; Or, 50 Million People Can’t Be Wrong,” was
entertaining. But its value in a campus news magazine was, at best,

 debatable.

In fact, The Footbridge on the whole, while sometimes

 entertaining, was not much of a news magazine. And that was the

,-.-.v.-.-.—.-.-.-.-.~_--..-,.--....-- ,—---:-<-'----- -‘---‘---—-----~—-4---

~.~ ,~. 3-,?‘ u- .- .»-5-:-4-.-r.-.'—:.-.v.a‘

mission the Pub Board had spelled out for it. Thus the Pub Board
should not endorse The Footbridge Tuesday.

But all need notbe lost forFootbridge supporters and staff.
Lack of recognition by the Pub Board did not stop the Spectator
from blossoming at W&L; that magazine, to the contrary, thrives
on its independence.

If enough students want The Footbridge to stick around,
they should transform that desire into action. Sell ads. Write
stories. Solicit readers. And petition the Executive Committee for
support.

Instead of trying to fit into a mold carefully carved out by
the Pub Board, The Footbridge might be more successful just
doing its -own thing.» We look‘ forward to seeing your ideas and
creativity‘§onstr’trct‘an arr-nefv; independent Ft’§ol,’b:r'idge'.‘; 

" ' vmmmmum

Don't be stupid

Well, Rush is here again, and from all indications, it looks like
this year will be just as drunken as ever, despite university efforts
to change things. You may recall that last fall, 20 students were
arrested for alcohol-related infractions during the first week of
Rush. And seven students tore straight from a fratemity into the
hospital. Not to mention the countless others whose friends had to
watch them sleep so they wouldn't drown in vomit. Not a pretty
image, huh?

We at the Phi wouldn’t dream of suggesting that we all go dry
for Rush. All we’d like to ask is that you try to use your heads.
Don’t walk down the street with an obviously alcoholic drink -
the police are out in force and they don’t have any qualms about
ruining the best party weekends of the year. If you’ve been
drinking, don't wander around Lexington alone, and don’t even
consider driving. Take care of each other and of yourself. Rush
doesn’t have to include students blacking out, puking or getting
hurt. Believe it or not, letting loose doesn’t have to mean losing
control, and thinking and drinking aren't mutually‘ exclusive.

The Fling-tum Phi, September 17, 1992

WASHINGTON —— The search for
reasons to re-elect George Bush re-
sembles for many the 19th century
search for the source of the Blue Nile:
hard going. Here are some questions
which, were he to answer them, might
make it easier for many to vote for him
with ungritted

cans live, California's Republican gov-
ernor has dispelled some of the fatal-
ism about statism. It is the belief that
there is a leftward-working ratchet in
contemporary society, so that govem-
ment growth can be occasionally
slowed but never reversed. Wilson did

it by resisting

teeth.

Vice Presi-
dent Quayle
wants voters to
clarifyresponsi-

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group

various suppos-
edly irresistible
factions and en-
during some
chaos and acri-

bility in Wash-

ington — to elect a president and Con-
gress of the same party, both Demo-
cratic or both Republican. Do you
agree?

When you said in Houston that
Clinton's election would mean ‘ ‘a rub-
ber-check Congress and a rubber-stamp
president,” were you not predicting a
Democratic Congress in 1993? Are
you not really recommending your re-
election on the ground that you can
styrnie Congress and enforce the (sup-
posedly) dreaded “gridloc " of gov.-
¢.mment?.  ...  _.

"Most second terms are (even) worse
than most first terms. Your argument
for a second term is: Hey don’t blame
me, I couldn't deal with a Democratic
Congress. If you couldn't deal with it
after the 40-state sweep of 1988, how
will you be stronger if you stagger into
larne-duck status only because people
decide Clinton would be even worse?

Out where one-eighth of all Ameri-

mony. Can you
convincingly promise similarly con-
structive chaos and acrimony — a less
kind and gentle Bush, beginning now,
by vetoing the $2.3 billion legislative
appropriation bill, the money Congress
spends on itself?

Loyalty is a virtue, up to a point.
You have passed that point. What are
ten-thumbed hands of Messrs. Darman
and Brady doing still on the tiller of
economic policy? You say this elec-
tion is about “tn.rst." Should we just
trust you to sack them, someday, over

the rainbow? On the other hand,_when,,
‘ you say Congress is to blame for every-

thing, does that mean you see no reason
to change your advisors?

But, then, you may be thinking,
“To blame for what?” You recently
said of the country's economic condi-
tion, ‘‘I’m not sure it’s worse than four
years ago.” Really? More people are
in poverty than in 1989, median house-
hold income is down, as are average

Difficult questions remain unanswered

hourly earnings in the private sector.
(Probably not in government, of
course.)

One of your finest achievements is
the Nonh American Free Trade Agree-
ment. But critics say it is part of a
sinister plan to further depress Ameri-
can wages by exposing workers to
cheap foreign competition. Is your con-
servatism compatible with government
measures to help workers cope with the
rapid change that is the consequence of
the internationalization of economic
life?

A few days after your nrnning mate
told grateful workers in Michigan there
would be billions spent upgrading tanks
that your administration recently said
should not be upgraded, you were in
Humboldt, South Dakota. There, in a
speech warning against a Clinton
“spending binge” and announcing a
sweetening of agriculture subsidies, you
told the farmers you favored “keeping
government off your back. ” Do you
wonder why people think your words
reﬂect no ballastof belief? . . ..

The Republican platform (surely it
was just a bluff jocularitywhen you
saidyou hadn't read it) says: “We be-
lieve a free market in art — with nei-
ther suppression nor favoritism by gov-
ernment -—- is the best way to foster the
cultural revival our country needs.”
Does that mean, as it seems to, the
National Endowment for the Arts —
and, while you are at it, public televi-
sion subsidies?

At last the world has a perpetual
motion machine — the clanking
prosecutorial jalopy of independent
counsel Lawrence Walsh. It is running
up court failures and millions of dollars
of expenses, while bankruptin g people
who are acquitted. Here is something
you can do without Congress’ permis-
sion: Will you send him packing? O

Just another day in paradise: After a
drug—related fusillade in the Bronx
wounded 12 bystanders, a father tried
to comfort a hysterical daughter who
was shot in the head. A mother cradled
her daughter who was shot in the back.
A 16-year-old girl hit many times lgz
buckshot was returning from the police
station where she had filed a report
about being mugged. Her 18-year-old
sister, also hit, may be permanently
paralyzed. Across the continent, Los
Angeles County set a one—montl1 record
in August: 263 probable homicidg,
169 from gunshots. Do you really have
no thoughts about guns in America,
beyond your tepid acceptance of what
police everywhere desire — the mild
Brady bill, with its brief waiting period
and _background checks for gun pur-
chasers? V ‘

Finally, does the carnage of chi?-
dren in our blood—spattered cities, or
anything else, make you simply furi-
ous, or is there only one thing that does
—— Congress’ refusal to cut the tax rate
on capital gains?

Just wondering.

(c) 1992, Washington For! Writers Group

1992 contest hits the red zone

L-.-iv»-t-ixq.-is-.—.-.9.-.-.-.-.-J-.~=.-P.-2-.6.-:-2-a-:-r-.—r.~.r-«mic art 1: 4 4'4-in-I-34 I-on-.~s-o--v -vi» - v we . ti 4 1'0‘-v -v -o v 1 rv ow .v «A ~ a nap»: ~ ~ .. a.-_-- .3 ,4.
v

Ellie illittg-tttm iﬂlri’

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiecolo, Richard Peltz

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joshua Manning

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nikki Magaziner

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
fund. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appearin that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions
of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON— The 1992 presidential carn-
paign has crossed the 20-yard line into what some
NFL footballers have started calling the “red zone.”
The fightbetween George Bush, 68, and Bill Clinton,
46, is now deadly serious. Through the seven weeks
that lie between this

Day crowd, using his latest presidential role model to
clip his current presidential foe.

The game plan is familiar. Four years ago, Bush
learned that the best way to sack an opposing quarter-
back is, a) have the team captain himself nail the

target first; b) have the rest of

Tuesday and Nov. 3,
expect to see sweaty
faces, bone-wrench-
ing tackles and lots of
mud on the uniforms.

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

the team prepped to pile on.
They're getting good at this.
Within a split second after Bush
connected at his Wisconsin
rally, well-placed ringers had

Here's how the
Bush side, down by
15 points, now seems intent on pulling it out:

1. Pressure the Quarterback!

The Bush—Quayle forces have obviously decided
that they can't win the game on points. If the '92
election turns on the old “Are you better off?" ques-
tion, the contest’s already been decided. The home
team's lone chance of victory lies in wearing down
the opposing QB, hopefully knocking him out of the
game.

Why else did the Bush side spend the past week
red-dogging challenger Bill Clinton on how he dealt
with the draft nearly a quarter-century ago?

What's striking, especially to the experts watch-
ing, is that George Bush led the draft assault himself.
“Harry Truman wanted to join the military and fight
for his country. So did I, and I did," he told a Labor

taken up the cheer: “Where was

Bill? Where was Bill?" By
week's end, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, a disabled
World War II veteran, and retired Marine Corps
commandant Paul X. Kelley had both landed hard on
the Democrat.

2. Play the Clock!

Bush-Quayle coach Jim Baker knows that, with
time running out, the home team has two great
advantages: a)It can decide when to stop the political
game and act presidential, tending to Hurricane An-
drew, Saddam Hussein and other nasty advantages of
incurnbency; b) It can also decide when to play to
game.

Poll history teaches that the moment presidential
candidates set a date for a debate, voters freeze.
Everyone waits to see what happens when the two
men actually get ‘together.

Hence coach Baker's stall: Ifhe agrees to a debate
schedule now, with the President still 10 or mot:
points down, he sends Bush onto the field as a
decided underdog. If he plays the clock another
week, keeping maximum pressure on Clinton's “char-
acter,” he’s got an outside chance of having Bush
meet his rival with the point difference down to five.

Baker, as coach of the home team, will also insist
on when the debates are done with. q

For some very potent reasons, expect the Bush-
Clinton confrontations done by no later than mid-
October. Those powerful reasons are the constitu-
tional and political powers of the American presi-
dency. The Bush team wants to have the messy game
of politics out of the way to give the White House
folks plenty of time— three weeks would be exceb
lent, to display for voters the uncertainties facing
American in the world today, the absolute need for a
president with the global seasoning, and yes, the
character, to face down these uncertainties. Having
devoted September to shaking voters’ faith in Bill
Clinton, late October will be devoted to instilling a
renewed faith in George Bush, convincing Americ
that its best hopes for the next four years lie with the
team that's been running things the last four.

Even with the best of coaches, this final play of
the '92 presidential game, set deep in the “red zone,”
could prove the hardest to execute.

(c) 1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

LETTERS

Humor columnists get bashed by readers

Dear Mr. Chris Citron,

Do we sense a twinge of bitterness
in your recent Ring Turn Phi publish-
ing? For those who were not enlight-
ened by Mr. Citron's article, he in-
formed the W&L students that 1991 ’s
freshman women were shallow, “has-
been beauty queens," and interested
only in upperclassmen. Mr. Citron, you
have insulted me as well as many sopho-
more women who do not even begin to
fit into your stereotype.

Furthermore, it is hypocritical of
you to encourage this year's freshman

women to date only the upperclassmen
because “they’re more fun anyway,"
when you have just berated the sopho-
more class for following your own
advice.

Given, there might have been a few
freshman women last year who prima-
rily dated upperclassmen—— but who
are you to judge them? Even so, they
are the exception to the rule; the major-
ity of last year’s freshmen dated within
their own class and maintained many
close friendships with the males of
their own class.

For you to say that the freshman
women of last year were so shallow
that we deliberately forgot our fresh-
man male counterparts in favor of up-
perclassmen attention is hardly sound
advice coming from someone who pro-
claims the freshman face book as his
holy bible. I'm sorry if you might have
had a problem with someone in last
year’s freshman class, but the entire
sophomore class is not to be blamed for
your romantic failings.

Jen Hickes, '95

To the Editor,

Ihave endured barium high colinics‘

that were less painful than last week's
“Spos' Space.”

The Phi's new humor columnist,
Tom Hespos, is probably a wonderful
human being, but his futile attempt in
last week's issue was both embarrass-
ing and sad. Somebody please put this
guy out ofhis misery or at least hide his
word processor.

Sincerely,
Paul Mallos, '93

Presidential candidates are indistinguishable

To the Editor,

It seems the Phi is in a guideline-reshapin g mood.
Splendid. While you're at it, why not take my advice
on how to clarify political chitchat during this fun-
filled campaign?

Every four years, here in Freedom's Land, the
group of organizations designated by that unlovely

word, “media," does its best to a) exclude discussion
of every salient issue from public discourse, and b)
demonstrate that some meaningful difference exists
between the two lucky presidential contestants. Task
a) is generally a success; task b), being impossible, is
not always so well brought off. Since the Phi is
doubtless eager to join its establishment press pals in

the con game (those eminent dispensers of conven-
tional bullshit, Chris Matthews and George “Mr.
Chicago" Will, have already been recruited) l have a
suggestion regarding how better to distinguish the

U see LETTERS, page 2

O

 

D

The Ring-tum Phl, September :1, 1992

D From LETTERS, page 2

two candidates.

Names, titles, and party affiliations
arin’t good enough. In terms of “posi-
tions" on the “issues,” and realistic
policy trajectories, corporate America's
nominees for the presidency are so
palpably indistinguishable that I have
trouble keeping track of which is which.
Which one is the incumbent, anyway?
which one the challenger? I can’t re-
member.

To dispel this confusion, I suggest

 Kathekon revives tradition

To the Student Body,

This is a letter urging your support for the
Homecoming Parade on Oct. 3 at 11:00 a.m. It
is an effort to get the whole school excited about
the game between the Generals and Randolph-

con.The entire school has the opportunity to
witness the rebirth of an old tradition. It has
been over twenty years since W&L celebrated
Homecoming in such a fashion. The Alumni
Office and Kathekon (a student alumni group)

the Phi resort, as I have done, to imme-
diately recognizable descriptions. In-
stead of referring to George Clinton
and Bill Bush by name, use “Fat Sleazy
Imbecile” and “Gaunt Whining Bas-
tard.” Your readers will appreciate the
clariﬁcation.(Other terms which spring
to mind—such as “racist,” “war-mon-
gering,” “lying”—-— apply more or less
equally to both contestants, and so are
unhelpful in setting up the desired dis-
tinction.)

Niall MacKenzie, ’93

 

ties and clubs about entering ﬂoats or some
kind of vehicle in the parade to show their spirit
for the Generals. We hope that these groups
have already started to formulate plans as to
how they will participate in the parade. Ifyou’re
not involved in the making of a ﬂoat we surely
hope you will be standing along the parade
route cheering the procession along. Time is
short (about two weeks) so we all need to
mobilize quickly to ensure a big success.

are organizing the event and making sure things

run smoothly. We have been in contact with
vlrious groups, including fraternities, soren-

Tom Hooper '93
Kathekon President

Student mourns professor

To the Student Body,

As a result of its conspicuous and
unfortunate absence from the first edi-
tion of the Ring-tum Phi, I feel com-
pelled to inform the student body of
Professor Buford Stuart Stephenson’s
untimely death over the course of the
summer. Professor Stephenson, pro-
fessor of German, Emeritus, died sud-
denly of an aneurysm on June 21, after
a two year struggle with a heart condi-
tion. His presence in and around Wash-
ington and Lee will be sorely missed.

Having been a_ student of Professor
Stephenson ’s for three semesters, 1 can
attest to his absolute dedication to both
his students and the university to which
he dedicated his entire life. Professor
Stephenson possessed an extraordinary

To the Editor,

Thanks guys!

Binky Parkins ’94

interest in the well-being of his stu-
dents.

His teaching methods were strict
and his academic standards were high,
for he accepted no less than a student’s
best. Yet, his rigidness was tempered
by an unwavering enthusiasm for life
that made his class both challenging
and pleasurable.

I am certain that generations of
Washington and Lee students are be-
holden to Professor Stephenson for in-
spiring within them this same zeal for
leaming and life. Perhaps this is the
greatest compliment that can be paid to
a professor. I hope it is.

Sincerely,
John Kalmbach ’93

Gentlemen still exist

I'd like to thank the brothers of Lambda Chi Alpha for their
kindness and friendship. This past week a close family member
of mine died and they supported me through a very difficult
couple of days. On Monday evening I returned home to find a
beautiful bouquet of flowers awaiting me.

Lambda Chi Alpha has renewed my belief that the proverbial
‘ ‘W&L gentleman’ ’ can still be found and that everything that
Washington and Lee stands for is alive and well.

Nicknames are all in the personality

ONE GUY’s OPINION
By Chris Citron

Okay, so there I was, a few days
after high school graduation, and the
only thing that I was thinkin’ about was
getting laid. Damn, wrong column.
Sorry Dr. Worth.

Anyway, I was sittin’ around the
summer before my freshman year at

college, trying to figure out what it was

really gonna be like. I was preparing
myself for the change in alcohol con-
sumption, sleeping habits, weight gain,
etc.: the importantthings. Butlnever
fathomed that the one thing I consid-
ered to be associated with me more
than anything else would be stripped
away from my essence: my cheesy
wardrobe. Sorry, wrong column again.
meant my name.

In high school my name was Chris.
There were variations to that, of course,
such as “s___head” and
“f ” (ﬁgure that one
out), and they were said in a very lov-
ing manner. Now, those have kinda

ollowed me to college, but one name
above all others has emergedvand be-
come a permanent fixture to my col-
lege persona. (This sounds great, but
somehow the name “Chachi” does not
bring to lightthe distinction I was look-
ing for.) Yes, my name is Chachi, and
I need to talk about it.

Anyone who ever watched televi-
sion is the seventies, and re-mns in the

eighties knows the character for which
I am named. (Except Chris Doherty)
Chachi, alias Scott Baio: seventeen-
time champion of Teen-Beat pin-up
poster boy, was Fonzi’s cousin on
“Happy Days,” who later married
Joanie and had a real successful career
as a rock singer in the award-winning
spin-off ‘ ‘Joanie Loves Chachi, ’ ’ which
lasted ap- ‘

In fact, I don't know any.) And finally,
it's a pretty decent icebreaker. “Hi, my
name’s Lisa, and I’m down with O.P.P.
What's yourname? Chachi? Like from
‘Happy Days?’ You must be a
cheeseball. Well, bye.”
Unfortunately, that’s the end of it.
There aren't any more good points to
the name. Why? Don't be stupid.

p r 0 xi-
mately 27
minuteson
p r i m e
time. To
describe
himwould
be to
...well,

wastealot’ ""namg._'_ 
of timei  “  ‘

Scott Baio... He’s a typical cheeseball. End
of story. Except, he’s Italian as well, which
is not necessarily redundant, although in
my case it was. Hence the perfect nick-

He’s ‘a ‘V

typical

cheeseball. End of story. Except, he’s
Italian as well, which is not necessarily
redundant, although in my case, it was.
Hence, the perfect nickname: Chachi,
the cheesy, Eye-talian-looking kid from
New Jersey. Perfect.

And for many reasons it still is per-
fect. People certainly remember my
name when I tell them, which is a
vitally important characteristic for
Rushing...guys and girls. Idon’t get
mixed up with all the other Chris’ on
campus which is equally important for
both them and me. (I don't know too
many people who would want to be
mistaken for a cheesy New Jerseyite.

More than half the people who know
me as Chachi don't even know I have a
last name. It's ARCHOLA! If you talk
to them of Chris Citron, they have
absolutely no idea of whom you're
speaking, which is particularly frus-
trating when you’re talking to your-
self.

“Chachi” also gets mutated very
easily and the results seem to worsen
with each passing year. One girl, dur-
ing my sophomore year, must have
overheard my name, was not fonnally
introducedandsocalledme“Chi-Chi.”
My pledge brothers get even more cre-
ative, striving to top “Choochie,”

__ usexfa

Benji Plummer, ‘94, Atlanta, Ga.

Interviews and Photos
" by Jameson Leonardi

“TALCKBACKJ

“Chachi in Charge,” “Chachi-Malachi,
Luigi-Figi,” and the ever popular
“Crotchie.” I’m sure that something
even better will turn up this year, as
long as I am still associated with Scott
Baio and not Adrian Zmed.

I can't watch “Happy Days” any-
more because every time they call
“Chachi” my ears pick up like a dog's
do when you call him. Although to be
honest, Istill can't decide whether that’s
a good thing or not.

And let’s not even get started on
intimacy. How exciting is it to hear, let
alone say, “Ooh, make love to me
Chachi.” “Yes, you know how I like
it... Chachi Archola.” “I want to be
your Joanie.” Alright, so it's great the
first thirteen times but it gets pretty
tiring wearing that same damn red ban-

danna around your leg the whole time -
during sex. (Actually, I’m just joking. I.

I haven’t even had sex thirteen times).
“Chachi” does just not translate into
“sex”; or “stu ”; “cheeseball” is the
only true translation.

And yet for all my bitching, I
was truly upset when another fratemity
nicknamed one of their pledges
“Chachi” last year. Granted, he looks a
lot more like Scott Baio than I do, but
he’s not even close to the level of
cheese that I have attained. Hell, I
guess I'm proud of the name. lt’s mine
and whether I like it or not, I’m stuck
with it. So what do you call me?
Whatever’s appropriate at the time.
However, given my nature, I’m sure
that most of the time it will be Chachi.

PAGE 3

 

The Registrar

The Registrar's office is ﬁnaliz-
ing the information for the Student
Directory. Please make sure they
have your correct local address and
phone number. Deadline to make
changes is Sept. 21.

Debate

Pi Sigma Alpha and United We
Stand American will sponsor an eco-
nomic debate between Steve
Musselwhite and Bob Goodlatte,
candidates for the 6th Congressional
district. The debate will be Monday,
Sept. 28, from 7-9 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

2 College Dem.

There will be a meeting of the
College Democrats Sunday, Sept.
27 at 7 p.m. in room 109 of the
University Center. Bring checks for
membership dues. Call Cottie Miles
at 464-6133.

EC Budgets

The Executive Committee will
hear budgetary requests beginning
Monday Sept. 28. These hearings
will continue throughout the week,
and possibly the next week as well,.
Deliberations concerning E.C. al-
lotrnents to student organizations
will follow the hearings. All pro-
ceedings are open to members of the
W&L student body.

If representatives of the various
student organizations requesting al-
locations have a preference for a
specific date they would like to
present their budgets, such repre-
sentatives should contact Ames
Hutton at 463-8588 (office) or 463-
9108 (home).

The EC

The Executive Committe will in-
terview students for positions on the
Student-Faculty-Hearing Board on
Sept. 23. Applications canbepicked
up outside of Carol Calkin’s office

FD Chairmen

The EC will intreview students
for the positions of Fancy Dress
chair,vice-chairand auditoron Sept.
24. Applications can be picked up
outside of Carol Calkins’ office.

 n:."l',~';:‘» gs

.-~’: "Cr! I ‘ll’
Model -U.t«N.«
-Foreign Affair Club meeting
Sept. 20, at 7:30. Model United
Nations at UPenn information will
be given. Contact Christine Will at
464-3760 for more info

... ,t
, 
,;.._.L

RACASA

The Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault(RACASA)
is organizing a training course for
new volunteers. The course will
consist of thirty-three hours of train-
ing. Topics to be covered include
myths and facts about sexual as-
sault,crisisintervention,emotional,

medical and legal issues, the sex

offender, child sexual abuse and
risk reduction.

The course will run from Oct. 6
to Dec. 15. RACASA provides cri-
sis intervention and victim support
services as well as public program-
ming on sexual assault and risk
reduction. Anyone interested in
training as a volunteer, or anyone
seeking additional information,
should call the hotline at 463 -RAPE
(7273).

Parade

Are you ready for the Home-
coming Parade on Oct. 3? Catalogs
and materials for floats can be or-
dered tomorrow, Sept. IS, in front
of the Co-op from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.
The next parade chainnen’s meet-
ing is scheduled for Sept. 22, in
room 109 of the Student Center.
Any questions can be directed to
Tom Hooper at 464-6682.

Study Abroad

If you would like to study in
Bath, with time in Oxford and
Stratford, come to Baker 106 at 2
p.m. on Friday, Sept. 18. If you are
interested in studying abroad on a
program not run by Washington
and Lee, please see Kirk Folio dur-
ing study abroad office hours: Mon-
day 3-5, Wednesday 3:15-5:15, or
by appointment. If you are inter-
ested in studying at the University
of St. Andrews for a year, please
come to Baker 106 at 2 p.m. on
Monday, Sept. 21.

New Committee

The newly formed Student De-
velopment Committee is currently
accepting applications for student
class agents.These individuals will
beresponsible forzcoordinatingthe
student phonathon program; work-
ing with alumni to encourage sup-
port of the university; and other
development activities. Anyone in-

--—-terested should sign up outside
.. .C.aro1. .Ca1!<.insi9Iﬁ¢e in the Uni-
versity Center for an interview.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will
meet Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the
Calyx office.

For the Record

Jodi Schaubach testified in the June 30 preliminary hearing that she did

not have a boyfriend at VMI.

Also, the candlelight procession in support of Schaubach took place

Tuesday, Sept. 8.

What’s your favorite hangover cure?

Wilson Moore, ‘94, Tuscaloosa,
Ala. — “Beating my roommate's
dog.“

Julie-Ann Olejniczak, ‘96, New York, N.Y. and Vanessa Vettier, ‘96,
Paris, France — “We set trash cans on fire and wear pantyhose on our
heads.“

 

Reggie Aggarwal, ‘94L, Alexan-
dria, Va. — “An Indian elixir that
has been guarded by my family for
centuries.“

Bill Coffin, ‘93, Easton, Pa. —
“Three Advils and a bowl of
noodles.“

PAGE 4

Gaylard

From Mozart to Gershwin
Ga ylard performs tonight at Lenfest

By JOYCE BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

The melodic chords of Beethoven’s
Sonata in F minor, Op. 57 and
Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” will
ﬂood tlte Lenfest Center when Associ-
ate Professor of Music Timothy
Gaylard perfomts tonight.

“When I play, I feel as though I’m
recreating what the composer put on
the page,” Gaylard said.

Though he is not from a musical
family, Gaylard said, he always felt
drawn to music.

“Music has always been important
to me,”Gaylard said. “I couldn’t imag-
ine not making it part of my life.”

Gaylard received his B.A. in math
and B.Mus. degrees at Carleton Uni-
versity.

“I once thought that my future was
in math,” Gaylard said. “But music
was too important to me.”

Gaylard went on to receive his Ph.D.
in musicology from Columbia Univer-
srty.
He also has two Associate Royal
Conservatory of Toronto degrees in
piano performance and pedagogy. and
a diploma from the Mozarteum in

Salzburg, Austria where he studied with
Winfried Wolf in 1974.

“He [Wolf] studied with one of Franz
Liszt’s last students,” Gaylard said.
“He passed on his knowledge of tech-
nique and interpretation."

Gaylard said the most important
lesson taught by Wolf is “fidelity to
your style.”

The summer he spent in Salzburg
was exciting, he said.

“You can’t beat going to Europe to
stay in the city where Mozart lived to
learn,” Gaylard said.

From Wolf, Gaylard also said he
learned the importance of discipline.

“Washington and Lee students see
music as a comfort and an inspiration,”
he said. “Making music is difficult, but
rewarding. ” '

Since comin g to Lexington in 1984,
Gaylard has played in many recitals, as
soloist and accompanist.

He also performed at the first an-
nual Sonoklect (the new music festi-
val).

Last January, he appeared as piano
soloist in Rachmaninoff ’s Piano Con-
certo No. 2 with the University Or-
chestra for the opening of the Lenfest
Center.

Tonight's 7 p.m. concert is open to
the public and free of charge.

    

U

The Ring-rum Phi, September 17, 1992

FEATURES

Institutes loss of tou h touch

 

Flowers replace rats at VMI

From The Associated Press

As ﬂowers appear on dining room
tables and cadets enter sensitivity train-
ing seminars, some alumni of Virginia
Military Institute wonder what’s hap-
pening to the school’s tough image.

“I hearspme of the alumni say things
are going to hell, VMI is going,” said
Gary Hast, a member of The
Commandment’s Alumni Advisory
Committee and a 1977 graduate.

Many of those alumni are the same
ones waging war to keep women out of
the cadet corps. But as change guides
the all-male military school into the
21 st century, small changes are begin-

ning to irritate alumni.

“We are trying to keep the traditions
of the old corps, but at the same time
we must adjust for the future,” said
Col. N. Michael Bisscll, commandant
of cadets. “We need to examine where
we’ve been and where we’re going.”

Class rings no longer bear‘ the Con-
federate ﬂag because administrators
say it’s an inappropriate symbol for an
institution with growing numbers of
blacks among its ranks.

The school also stopped playing
“Dixie” at its annual ceremony com-
memorating 10 cadets who died fight-
ing Union troops in 1864.

In addition, administrators are try-

Virginia Military Institute cadets parade in full military regalia

 

ing to clean up the school’s mess hall

act. Flowers adorn tables.

During meals, rats no longer have
to hold a knife between their knees
while eating with their chins plastering
to their chests and run to and from each
meal.

Seniors are allowed to have cars,
make more trips into town and wear
civilian clothes.

“The standard joke amongst alumni
is VMI is the only school with 150
years of history unmarred by progress,”
said J.R. Worsham III, a 1967 gradu-
ate. “Lately there have been some small
changes, but major objectives of VMI
haven't changed much.”

Worsham claims VMI’s disciplin-
ary traditions have well served his fam-
ily, including his son,
Tucker, who is a member
of the class of 1993.

But he also said he fa-
vors getting rid of some of
the hazing.

One rough initiation rite
is the “rat line,” which is
intended to humiliate and
bend a first-year student's
mental strength to the point
of breaking, said
Worsham, who remembers
being beaten with a coat
hanger.

That kind of behavior is
now unacceptable, Btssell
said.

“There's a saying
around here: ‘Don’t ask a
rat to do anything that you
wouldn't do, right now and
exactly as you asked them

to do it,’” he said.
' Bissell is calling for a
“more professio ” rat line
and has been pushing in

came commandant two
years ago.

But any change at VMI
is going to take a long time,
said Hast, past president of
the Virginia Beach VMI
Alumni Association.

“Over the past 100 years
__ small things have changed
and it’s been very slow,”
Hast said. “But you have to
remember, nothing happens
overnight at VMI.”

File Photo

that direction since he be- '

Parade
returns
to W&L

Homecoming floats are

again part of festivities

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

It has been 25 years since
Lexington has seen a Washing-
ton and Lee Homecoming Pa-
rade march through the city
streets.

This y ear, the spirit -ﬁlled
tradition will be back.

At 11 a.m. on Saturday, Oct.
3, a long line of student-built
ﬂoats, bands, emergency crews
and local elected officials will

leave Brewbaker field and head
toward Liberty Hall ruins.

Accord-
‘"8 . ‘° The 1992
AlurnntR -
resentatiefe :"°mec°m'
Matthew ng Parade
Fewer’ the Will be 00!.
procession 3 at 11 3-mu
will tromp starting at
th r o u g h Brubaker
downtown F|e|d_
Lexington,
b u i 1 din g

spirit for the football game
against Randolph-Macon and
increasing interaction between
students and alumni..

Felber said the parade tro-
phy will be kept on permanent
display in the Co-op. Parade
winners will be announced at
halftime during the Homecom-
ing football game.

Fraternities, sororities and
all other student organizations
are invited to enter the ﬂoat
competition.

Kathekon, the student
alumni group, hopes for full
student body participation.

“We expect competition for
the Homecoming Parade tro-
phy to be intense,” said
Kathekon President Tom
Hooper.

l

 

Apple Macintosh PowerBook" 145 4/40

 
  
 

$880 4/40
$988 4/so

Apple Macintosh Classic’ II

Buy one   of these.

of ese.

Get over ‘4OO worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 — and
Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever.
And if you are interested in ﬁnancing options, be sure to ask for
details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student

  
  
 
 

  
  

$988 '4/40
$1095 *4/so

Apple Macintosh LC 11

D,
:2. .-
E3

Creator

   

    
  

  

Apple Macintosh Hsi I

 

only at your authorized Apple campus reseller.

The Macintosh Student Aid Package. i.

For further information visit the Computer Center in Tucker Hall
ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

$1204 *3/40
$1413 *5/so

‘Keyboard and monitor not included

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. Powerbook is a uni it i ti, .rk 0MPPl5 C‘"“P“‘e’~ ["9 The Random "0155 E“Q’C'°P€di3 l5 3 Wdcmark 0f R3"d°"‘ H°”5Cv ‘"9 America" HCTWEC ElCm‘°"lC Dl“l0"3TY. El€CIl’0niC THCSBUNS. and
CorrecText° developed by Houghton Miﬁlin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's ll: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by language S)’SlL’nl.», Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. Resumewnter is a trademark of Bwtware Software Company, lnc. All product names are the trademark
of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 conﬁguration only. All qualifying computers come preloaded with software and electronic versions of instructions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in this offer.

 

     
  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1992

      
  

FEATURES

 

 
 

I
New ’9S’a“’a”tS ’" Lex Colonnade Crossword
I I I
Satisf those late-in ill lI|UlICl|leS
ACROSS 4
1 Short distance 7
_ . 5 Sire
patio area. But many may prefer to windsurfing board mounted on the ceil- “We’re working in unison with the :3 él||ic}|<:ne
By JENNIFER LATHAM gaze at a South Pacific island mural on ing. fraternities to make this a fun place,” 15 E2512; bigwig
Phi Staff Writer a wall inside the shop, rather than see Adding a special touch are the giant Paul said. . is Appear
Lexington outside the window. standup Budweiser , bottles sporting He and the social chairmen of sev- 17 gmilnoustly
Conner opened Hometown Yogurt football helmets. which set the scene eral W&L fraternities have discussed 18 ,,g'nY(;’c"‘l’d‘;‘:1
Eor upperclassmen wondering what in June. _ . ’ « » i .- - renting out the pond‘: Sta,
could possibly be new in sleepy Lex- “I’m a local Rockbridge resident,” restaurant F0?  £03! With
ington,andfor freshmen sufferingfrom she said. “When I moved back from dances. 8 23 cagfﬁne or
the culture shock of “Lex Vegas,” re- Tennessee,  took all my savings and h a 11 I1 I C (3 Norma
lief is at ham; invested it (in Hometown Yogurt).” house. and 26 Certain lang.
With the addition of new restau- _At the other end of Nelson Street, 0_th6r f\mC- E; ;;r't"g;‘5; Serial
r and hangouts this year, Lexing- adjacent to Randolph Street at tl0nS- _ _ 31 30,9
ton, more than ever, is increasingly Schewel’s Warehouse, The Bone at- Inaddition 35 couch _
resembling a typical college town. tracts a W&L crowd with its bar and 1010031 bands. 35 :lF>a*:f;‘|_:" 5
Hometown Yogurt, located at 541 grill. The Bone 3., __ nutshell
Nelson St. across from Pizza Hut, ca- Open Wednesday through Sunday 1°°k5 f°"“’?’d (briefly)
ters to those who have cravings for from 11 p.m. to I230 a.m., The Bone to scheduling 38 Masstgréag ©lA9"9%u1g'l;:sl.lg9e;tI;:3;Ed Services. Inc.
something cold, geatures “value§i(t)=.(r)i(tie_d American 1\tI"are1 reggae. _pf0- 43 2’ dz France
The store scoops up business from ormpastastos ."co-owner ea g r e S S 1_V 6 44 F m
y  Amid Sm a c o u s ti c, 45 Graordner of Last Week's Answers
I “The mu’ 2. rock’ and 46 gwydeﬂenes 8 Poetic word I I _ U  -

Si“ is 8°°d5’ x 2  3% eve" °°““"y' 48 Kiatchen 9 Attempt

5°Ph°m°re  3‘   "-’ We5te”}b3f“_35 appliance 10 Catch phrase

April Powell Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi from Virginia 51 Upright: atgbr. 1; lttﬂrs. Chaplin

said’ "fer" Football and ribs are two attractions at The Bone. B°‘i°h' .    er 13 Aigiiiiin gull

ring to the _ _ _ W e r e 54 Own up 19 Starve

J i m in y for Monday night football. looking at allowingan under 21 crowd 57 got out of bed” 21 Famous lion

Buffett and Arnold and Bowen, both from Vir- to almost all events, as traffic allows,” 59 52:3’ W'”d°‘” gt: ﬁ;‘:;:‘::’1‘é°'

R . E . M . giniaBeach,openedthe grill on July 16 Arnold said. _ . _ 52 Mama, picmre young man

songs fre- of this year. Unless posted information speci- 55 Qffend 25 Fr. tower

q u e n t l y “I liked the building; it’s a good fies otherwise, the minimum age for 67 l;5:a°sg<I3srne 27 (-6-ncggéigagtgack

played‘ ad““"3."°° to 68 Tiny bit ment)

It mak€S eV5m5 15 18- 69 Grows older 28 Secular

sense that “I’dliketo 70 Necessities d  raltrtiotic gp.

with a name provldeanzll, 71 Vaiuabe woo 33 19°?“ sérygr.

like “The temative to DOWN Sam 47 Displaces 57 "l cannot

 ~ v _ Bone,” ribs students),’’ a sounding main 3; Iﬁgtﬁthoopsters  Criec(l>fl<>Lt‘i)d‘lé°n__ 58 it-zellag"
. . ' ’ l "—‘
Ph°‘° W 'V‘a"°'Y M°Y°'5- "'9 ”’”9"“”' ”’" ‘eﬁd ‘t’l:’;‘;‘§' Palilngga of 3 ciiifi follower? 39 Worn out so Wapiti go gelatives
- . ' 1 d "I
New yogurt shop offers flavors to please the palate. an. be_an of ga,_shwncbd_ gglyggggg gains 1?  d ::  23  
11Q.m.to l1p.m.daily, serving shakes, gourmandise here. mg» 9 53‘ 2 5 "59 °°""“a" 9'3 ° 65 Ch “ '
ﬂoats, yogurt and ice cream, Also on the menu are soups, salads, ppppp _ A students can 7 Chap 42 1°° V'5- 55 ”°'5° ‘me’
“We're glad to have W&L custom- sandwiches, and emre6S- 89 b3T'h°P'
ers,” manager Debra Conner said. Appetizers, such as the cheddar crab P108-
Three Colombo yogurt flavors, in and shrimp dip and chicken fingers, are lfyoixr ap-
addition to the old standbys, chocolate also pplpulair. Pm] k d X;:::)tti:;:esetIi1llsh2;_s
and vanilla, are “on tap” every day at . “ en want a. i y stea sari - _ _ U - _ _
Hunetown Yogurt. _ wich, I want something greasy and bad L f the i edntt 112; Attentl O n  W  R IS B ackl
A popular specialty, the Collider, for me, and the oiie I had lived up to my Phom by Mauory Meyers me Ringwm PM w efttedl 0
mixes yogurt and a fruit, candy or nut expectatiopis, sophomore Holli U I C ’ _” b _ ti L _ t o_ut 1orfLel2t1]r(-: ,
V topping, Harrison sai . it e aesar S wl soon e coming 0 exing on. f1Va 0 1 , . . .
taltts thicker than a normal shake, Insid? 'I'heAB;)on<1: you find a new I . "B ‘d “W 7 f d P. C ae s a r s    nhlnﬁj Se_E|::$1|OnS
and most people like the Butterfinger comer o Lex ge es. _ ' OCEIUOII,‘ owen sa_i . . e ve dun izza. _ . as in ton an ee W] e e on Urs-
or Heath Bar flavors,” Conner said. “I wanted to bring a little bit of the a good niche to fill in Lexington. Set to open within the ne‘xt.few U ,  , da and da Se t
Tm previous dayis ﬂavors are Sold by beach to the mounta‘ns’11 said Paul The Bone offers live entertainment months on Route 60 East, the pizza, n|'\/erslty S CampUS y y, p .
the pint, as well. Bowen, anoillier col-owner. d h olpl wet§kerFi‘d.s(i featurtilng The Convert— pizza place featudrecs deal; for tgie bud- radlo Station’ will be__ 1 7 and '1 8’ at 
‘ H t 1 es is ri a m t. et—conscious an raz rea . . .
Customers may eat outside on the H H106 t 6 P8 m "665 an 5 Y 8 8 Y gm broadcastmg for 
D on it rn i S S G eo rg e   Sportswear company that sells merchandise to fraternities and sororities the  term on Sa‘[- For more Informa-
Ch I t h M  d 51- is looking fpr a dynamic andlﬁesponsibgecpeigson to llac zftpart-time ‘ll urday’  19 at 7 tion’ can the 
n S 0 er a ews an om representative or your campus. s a mem . 0 our sa es. orce, you wi - _
D p _ _ gain valuble experience for future sales positions. Full training and sales a- m - oﬁlce at  
Hespos m next weeks Ph| supplies are provided, along with bonus incentives. Call (800) 336-4486.

 

 
     

    

 

. l The W&L Publications Board is accepting
letters of interest for the position of:
* Executive Editor of The
Ring—tum Phi
W .  Letters may be submitted to Carol Calkins’
  Office in the University Center by Friday,
Sept. 18. Interviews will be held Tuesday,
Sept. 22 at 7:30 p.m. in the University
. Center, room 206.

 

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS

 

, ° LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. QA[ﬁin_<-igemtiga Em.

Can't afford to save for retirement? Even ifyou're not counting the years to   St

The truth is. you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF

Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve——    !
can last 20 to goyears or more. You'll want with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
to live at least as comfortably then as you annuity plans. a diverse portfolio ofinvest-
do now. And that takes planning. merit choices, and a record ofpersonal  -Red  

, By starting to save now, you can take service thatspans 7_3years. ‘ _Chamois  _Ray.Bans
ad vantage of tax-deferral and give your Over a million people in education and _Dil_ty Bucs &  Bucs    Dog Collars’
money time to compound and grow. research put TIAA-CRILF at the top of
Consider this: set aside just $100 each their list for retirement planning. Why not VISOTS & 

month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $ig2,539* by the time
you reach age (35. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $227 each month
to reach the same goal.

join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on

your side.

.5",

Start plannirg your ﬁcturz. Call our Enrollment Hotline I 800 842-2888.

 

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

463-5383
VISA, MasterCard, Student Charge

© I992 72a:-bu; %iarancr am} Annuily A.r.rotia’i'on/Cnllzge Rdlrtnunt Etﬂiliu Fun).

\ /

X 7

. ‘Alan/nin_9 an intern! rate of 7.5% cr:9I)z9 to T [AA Rdirurizn! A/inudia. T51) rat: £4 114:3 wk/y to «bow (be powa M3 972:.‘ a/amzpoun3ing. Lower or hgber raru «mull?
prn3u4e very agﬂereni‘ raulu. CREF czrtficata art 914!/'£$u!z3 15y TIAA- CREF /n3ivI3ua/ aria Inafilulional Servuza.

 

I

PAGE 6 The Ring-tum Phl, September 17, 199

Harrlsfeeter C;I}{{0u~~~ d , 9 ’
MEANS LOW PRICES! c‘§1m‘£‘$L§§§y?‘“‘“‘“‘

   

  
    
  
 
    

REDUCEDPRICE  J  L  p M  ,
LEAN CUISINE .     Sell tickets ?
GLAZED “Hm”     *  Pick out good music?

Be creative?

Lift a heavy box?

Shop? '

Handle a computer well?
If you can do AT LEAST one’
of the above and attend 2

8.5 OZ.

PERDUE BNELESS FT

CHICKEN
BREAsT.......LB.

   
 
    
    

   
 

meetings a month, ‘
" IIRESHLY MADE PEPSI OR

CUCUMBER SALAD DIEI' PEPSI the . I
DE1'I’}iI3II'I<EERY 9 9 S ' I
tudent ;
 A         ctivities 5
I
HARRIS TEETER .. LOW PRICES I
STUDENT'S ' BUY ONE GET ONE FREE - I
¥¥>‘a"¢}’1'J.'iII$’I‘.{.{.‘s’I‘I'E¥I.'; r—EuEEEE=E."»7<E.'* Gard I
couRTEsY cm. I cALg=:TRg'Ié ggggoré I .
I . | 0 ' 2, I 
IIarr1s1‘eeIer I      ’ II

 I S     
' _Rc°Il1/‘3Il.I‘s)'lrATE 11111 . | E = ,  
1111111 I I
IT ALLOWS YOU TO I
CASH PERSONAL   1
CHECKS AT OVER I34 I Buy ONE 5g cg-_ I ‘ I
HARRIS TEETER . Hr IBUPROI-‘EN TABS oR I 5
LOCATIONS IN I CAPS an ONE FREE I sf.
  I  __;::___ L I v 0 . VI
CAROLINA, NORTH I§):ﬂEE§E:dTg%‘eA§:Fﬁi|yIbL,‘-MT-lzrffw‘__  I A
CAROLINA’ VIRGINIA  I . 
AND TENNESSEE .     1: I Interviews: Sept. 21 st— 24th 
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00 | 3&3; |i . 0 ~[
couPoN AND sAvE. L ______ _ _ _ _ _] I
I

VALUABLE I .00 COUPON - - ,
T M 0,... O, ,,,, Applications. due Sunday
I I   I I BELOWAND GET ONE 13 - I
I 0 I I oz. 36x or KEI.I.OGG'$ Sépt  I
I AN)! $3_ao OR MORE I I CORN I-'I._AKE$ FREE!

I puRcHA55 IN ouk ;.o'$'r‘1’3'o ,1" z‘.$8'.§I'If»‘.1‘.1‘s‘i.'I‘.§’.f'oz.
I PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I """"‘°""'""’"

ﬂ
I THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I
I LIMIT E COUPO PE AMILY PER VISIT I
OFFER OD SEP . 6 T U SEPT. 22, I992

    

  
 
 

Sign up for interviews & pick
I PRoDucE I

I  I     ~;:"=%‘«”<>%‘=’-II; up applications outside of
I- L "“”°“°J I-E-----G4 Carol Calkins’ office in the °

./.(._——:-——‘-}..—‘.'.'—-—.,,'.q-_.’ I,-¢———. "
I

 i . .
Prices Effective Through September 22, I992 UI11V€1‘S1ty C€I1t€I‘.

Prices In This Hectiv edne Se e ber I6TIIrou Tues ,September 22 I992. In .7 XINGTQN
RigI'II 'miI onIiIies. None Sold T c1Iers. We Giocily Accept Fe rood Stamps.

OnIy.W serve

 

   

‘o.

The Ring-tum Phl, September 17, 1992

 

House For Rent

i\aPPosto9-90'

Welcome Back.’

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon.-Sat. 10-5:30

1 ‘/2 miles out Rt. 60 East
4 Bedrooms. Available Immediately
463-5383

 

 

COPYRIGHT 1992 - THE KROCER CO.

- No cash?
_ No checks?  
1 No problem!

t C

 

NOW VOU can U58 VOUF MOSC Debit Card, Visa,
. “ Mastercard Oi‘ Discover Card CO charge
through the line at Kroger.
|t'S easy. |t'S fast. lt'S convenient.

' Ill101'hEl' FITS!’ I"I'0Iﬂ.'

 

LOW PHCES. And MOVE.

 

 

Women’s soccer

earns split with
ODAC rivals

By J US’l'lN MCNAULL
Phi Contributing Writer

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team split their first two Old
dominion Athletic Conference games
this week , putting to rest head coach
J anineHathom’sconcems
about her six new starters.

The Generals opened
the 1992 season with a
tough 1-0 loss at Virginia
Wesleyan. The loss

  

day.

Junior tri-captain Angie
Carrington’s two goals and an assist
spearheaded abalanced attack in which
five players scored. The Generals ﬁve
assists are nearly one-third of last
season’s total.

Junior Leigh
Strickler had a goal and
an assist, as did fresh-
men Jenni Robinson
and Anne Spruill. Last
year’s all-ODAC
goalie Kate Stimeling

 

dropped theGenerals toO- marked her second
5 lifetime against Va. straight start at center-
Wesleyan. halfback with a goal.
The Generals missed , The strong play of
numerous opportunities, Moseley Rowe allowed Hathom

but were held in the game
by freshman MimsRowe, who recorded
six saves in her collegiate debut.
Hathom hopes the loss teaches the girls
to take advantage of them.

“We had our chances and learned
the hard way,” said Hathom.

Perhaps the hardest aspect of the
game was the Generals lack of experi-
ence playing on a full ﬁeld.

After graduating seven players last
year, and with several underclassmen
not returning to the team, the Generals
small squad has been unable to run a
full scrimmage during practice. How-
ever, Hathom is not concerned.

“Lots of strong programs have [only]
18-20 players. For the girls it’s frus-
trating because of their [lack of] confi-
dence, but it’s just a mental thing. The
adjustment was a concern, but that's
been dismissed.”

Tri-captain Susan Moseley, the lone
senior, thinks the small squad has a
positive inﬂuence on the team’s chem-
istry.

“It has made us closer and worked
out really well,” said Moseley.

The Generals backed up Hathom’s
confidence by venturing to Lynchburg
and trouncin g an outclassed Randolph-
Macon Women’s College 6-1 on Tues-

to move Stimeling out
of the goal to showcase her talents in
the field. Hathom says there will be
little drop off from last year’s keeper
play.

“[Rowc] has great experience and
her skills are coming along,” said
Hathom. “She can fill Kate’s shoes.”

Rowe's talents will beput to the test
as Hollins and Denison come to Lib-
erty Field this weekend. Hathom ex-
pects a solid win over Hollins to “rev us
up for Denison.”

The Generalshave given up 10 goals
in their two losses to Denison, but will
look to capitalize on what Hathom
called “an off year” for the team from
Ohio. It should be an interesting game
considering Hathom used to coach field
hockey and lacrosse at Denison.

This weekend should be a litmus
test for the Generals before next
Thursday’s contest with last year’s
ODAC toumament winner Randolph-
Macon.

Despite the upcoming showdown,
Moseley says the Hollins game carries
extra weight because of the rivalry
between the girls.

“It’s always a fun game,” said
Moseley, “but it’s also very competi-
tive.”

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Contributing Writer

The Washington and Lee vol-
leyball team’s 1992 season opened
Saturday at Christopher Newport
College. The Generals participated
in a three team round robin touma-
ment with CNC and St. Mary’s.

The Generals opened the com-
petition with a closely contested
three—game sweep of the host team.
W&L survived 15-13, 16-14, 15-6.
It marked the first victory for in-
terim head coach Kristi Yarter.

Yarter graduated from the Uni-
versity of Arizona as one of their
all-time greats.W&L hired Yarter
on the suggestion of the Univeristy
of Virginia volleyball coach. Yarter
is taking over for Susan Dittman,
who is taking a one-year leave of
absence.

The Generals regrouped and
gathered their breaths for a match
against St. Mary’s of Maryland only
a few hours after the opener. Ifthey
were fatigued, they didn't show it.
The girls played a solid match, but
still wound up on the short end of a
thrilling contest. St. Mary’s pre-
vailed15-10,11-15,15-11,11-15,
15-13.

Although the team was happy
with the 1-1 start, the lack of a true
blocker manifested itself in a low
blocks per game ratio. Freshman
Chrissy Hart led the team with 0.71
blocks per game.

However, not all the numbers
were bad. Sophomore Jennifer
Garrigus compiled an unbelievable
27 digs in the two games. Freshman
Cheryl Taurassi had 17, classmate
Chrissie Hart ﬁnished with 16 and
senior co-captain Leslie Hess
chipped in with 15.

Hart led the Generals’ offense
with 19 kills, including 12 in the St.
Mary’s match. Hess and her sister

Yarter successful
in volleyball debut

Catherine added much-needed sup-
port with 16 kills apiece.

With virtually the entire season
remaining, Coach Yarter is quick to
point out that the success of the
team will lie in its unity.

“I think this team is whole. They
aren't full of little cliques. They’re
complete,” said Yarter. ‘‘It will take
all thirteen to win matches, not just
the six on the ﬂoor.”

In addition to working on the
team’s blocking and overall court
presence, Yarter wants to see an
improvement in the team’s com-
munication.

“Some examples of communi-
cation would be: in hitter coverage,
the defense calling out the shots
that are open,” commented Yarter,
“or callig out where the server is, or
where their hitters are. Helping each
other out. Then they know who
their watching for, and they can
react better.”

W&L will move on to play in the
2nd Annual Washington and Lee
Invitational at 5 p.m. on Friday, and
again at9 a.m. on Saturday. Sched-
uled to play in the tournament are:
Carnegie-Mellon, Goucher,
Marysville, Washington and
Jefferson and Sewanee.

The toumament will be the final
test before the Generals enter league
play against Guilford in the Warner
Center on Wednesday, Sept. 23.

 

C] From CLASSIC, page 8

em, as two freshmen played a key role
in the Generals late goal in the second
overtime.

After not capitalizing on several
chances in the second overtime, Cober
drew a foul, which allowed a penalty
shotfor the Generals. McKenna, ahigh
school teammate of Cober’s, stepped
up and put a rocket past the Richmond
goalie to put W&L ahead.

Remillard showed extreme confi-
dence in the freshman, putting him in
such a pressure-filled situation.

“It was a great deal of pressure for a
freshman, but he obviouslyresponded.”

However, the game wasn’t over
yet.It took two incredible point-blank
saves in the final five seconds by senior

all-American goalie P.J . Waikus to pre-
serve the victory. Waikus ended the
game with acareer-high 21 saves,whi1e
Golub led the W&L offensive output
with ﬁve goals and three assists. Golub
finished the three—game weekend with
12 goals.

The team was pleased with the re-
sults, despite a let-down in the second
half of the Richmond game. They hope
to continue the fast start this weekend.

The Generals travel up to New Jer-
sey to play in an Eastern Meet at
Princeton University. The test that
awakes them is stem to say the least.
Their opponents include number one
Eastern ranked Slippery Rock, number
two Princeton. and number three the
University of Massachusetts.

 

  

Last Week:

Footbal1- E&H 41, W&L 13 (0-1)
Water Polo-W&L 11,Rich.U.10 (3-0)
M Soc-F&M 3,W&L 1 (1-1)

W Soc-W&L 6,R—MWC 1 (1-1)
Volleyball-St. Mary’s 3,W&L 2 (1-1)
Golf-“Blue” 11th,“White” 13th

PAGE 8

  S

(J11: iiiing -tum iﬂhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

This Week:

Water Polo- EWPA#1 at Princeton

M Soc-at JHU 9/ 19;Guilford 9/23 4pm
W Soc-Hollins 9/18 4pm;Denison 9/19
Cross Country-MWC (M&W) 9/ 19 1 lam
Volleyball-W&L lnvit. 9/ 18 5pm; 19 9am

SEPTEMBER 17, 1992 I

Soccereanﬁ
three-peat at

F&M tourney

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Andnow for the mostdynarnic duoof 1992...(drurn
roll, p1ease)...Dan & Dave? Not!

Bill and Al? We’ll see in November.

Washington and Lee men’s soccer? Well, it's early
yet and all the reviews are not in. However, their two-
year stint as champions of the Franklin & Marshall
Tournament came to an end this past weekend.

F&M ended the Generals stranglehold on the title
with a 3-1 victory in the finals. These two teams
collided Sunday as the Generals looked to claim the
title for the third straight year.
The host team had other plans
and were much better prepared
for this showdown thantheywcre
last year. “They [Franklin &
Marshall] were much more fit,”
said head coach Rolf Piranian.
“Our conditioning is not where
it should be.”

The Generals took an early
1-0 lead in the finals on an
unassisted goal by senior Reid _
Murphy. Franklin & Marshall responded with two
goals before halftime for a 2-1 lead after 45 minutes
of play. F&M added one more to finish the scoring,
and they took back their own tournament’s title, 3-1.
According to Murphy, one of the Generals’ tri—cap-
tains, the team has been lacking the intensity it will
need to compete.

“The players all agree that we weren't as intense as
we need to be,” said Murphy.

Murphy also said that the Generals were excited
about their performance in the first game of the
tournament, a 4-0 shutout of Manhattanville on Satur-
day. Four different Generals scored in that game as
senior goalkeeper Mike Steinbrook kept
Manhattanville off the scoreboard.

“We really knocked the ball around well on Satur-
day,” said Piranian.

Murphy opened the scoring as fellow senior Mike
Mitchem recorded his 17th career assist, second all-
time for W&L soccer. Freshman Jesse Taylor and
junior John Robinson each contributed a goal to the
Generals‘ cause. Robinson‘s classmate Jud Allen
capped off the rout with a goal on a penalty kick.

The Generals tempered their excitement, how-
ever, because they knew they had a game Sunday
versus a team that was ready for them. .

‘‘It was hard to prepare with the amount of time we
had to get ready,” said assistant coach John Burgess,
a 1992 graduate of Franklin & Marshall.

Piranian has already listed the things that he plans
to work on before the Generals’ next contest, a game
against Johns Hopkins in Baltimore this Saturday.

“We have to work on our off-ball running; where
to be when you don’t have the ball,” said Piranian.
“We did that well Saturday, but not Sunday.”

Piranian also agrees that the team’s intensity level
must be higher if they are going to do well, especially
with the opening of the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference season so close.

 

Mitchem

“Our intensity must increase,” he said. “[The
coaches] can't do anything about that, but I hope the
players do."

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back — Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

 

Generals fall to Wasps in opener '

New run-and-gun goes ‘pop—pop’ in first half; improved play highlights second half

By SEAN O’RoURKr~:
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee football team played the best
team in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference last Satur-
day, and despite the score, played well.

“First of all, we played apretty darn good football team,’
said head coach Gary Fallon. “We just couldn’t take advan-
tage of their mistakes.” .

The Generals opened their 1992 season the way they
have the past seven, by taking on the Emory & Henry
Wasps. The Generals hosted the Wasps at Wilson Field
Saturday, but could not break a ten-year losing streak. The
Generals fell 41-13.

This game was a rout for the first 30 minutes of play.
E&H jumped all over the Generals, moving the ball at will.
Junior quarterback Eric Montgomery had a career first half.
He finished the half 10-for-13 for 192 yards and two
touchdowns. Both touchdowns went to their wide receiver
standout Cary Perkins. Perkins caught five balls for 138
yards in the first two quarters. At the half it was 32-0.

“We were going up against an experienced and speedy‘

group,” said senior defensive tackle Phil Spears. “Still, we
were too inconsistent. We had way too many breakdowns.”

W&L, on the other hand, had a very young team on the
field and had a tough first 30 minutes. The Generals were
held to 142 yards of total offense. Sophomore quarterback
Geren Steiner finished the half 9-for-22 for 104 yards and
three interceptions.

“We drove the ball well in the first half,” said Steiner.
“But I wasn’t pleased with my timing on some of the plays.”

One costly mistirned play occurred in the second quarter.
The Generals put together a well-sustained drive and were
poised to score on the Wasps’ 12 yard line. However,
Steiner’s timing pass to William Propst was picked off in the
end zone by an E&H safety, who returned the ball to the
Generals’ 48. E&H went on to score another touchdown
before the end of the half.

Even though Steiner made some mistakes, he showed
maturity and a cool head under pressure. He was forced from
the pocket a number of times and was able to scramble out
of trouble. He also displayed good decision-making by

‘ throwing the ball away to avoid a sack.

Fallon was displeased with offense in the first half
as well. He said the run-and-gun misfired.

“Our run-and-gun was pop-pop. We really didn’t get off.
We need to read defenses better and get the ball to the open
receiver.”

That is exactly what the Generals did in the second half.
The final 30 minutes were a total opposite of the first. W&L
movedthe ball well, but cut down on the mistakes that cost

 

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-rum Phi

Sophomore running back Michael MacLane makes a mad dash through the E&H secondary. MacLane
had the best day of his W&L career, finishing with 220 all-purpose yards.

them points in the first half.

“In the second half we gave them a different look,” said
Steiner. “We had a shifting offense which freed up the
outside receivers.”

Spears said on the defensive side of the ball, W&L’s
adjustments at halftime helped contain the outside running

' game.

Fallon said he was pleased with the tearn’s performance
in the second half.

“With the leadership of the upperclassmen and what the
coaches said, everyone was able to get together, and I think
we did get better as we played.”

The highlights for the Generals came in the fourth
quarter. First, the Generals scored their first points of the
season with an impressive 83-yard drive. Senior Mark
Goglia ended the drive with a 13-yard touchdown run. It was
the first score the Wasps had allowed the Generals in two
years.

The biggest play for W&L came from the defensive side
of the ball. The Wasps were inside the W&L 20, and they
tried to run the ball to the right side. The E&H running back
was nailed at the line of scrimmage and the ball popped
loose. Freshman comerback Graig Fantuzzi scooped the
ball up at the 15 and out—raced three E&H pursuers 85 yards
for a touchdown.

There were two down notes during the game, one ﬁn
each team. W&L’s starting center, junior Derek Boggs
cracked the tibia bone in his lower right leg. He’s expected
to be out from 6-8 weeks.

For E&H, Montgomery, who had a huge first half, '

suffered a fractured dislocation of his left ankle and a
fractured tibia during the third quarter. Montgomery was
taken to Stonewall Jackson Hospital where doctors set we
breaks. He had the surgeryperformed Sunday at Abingdon’s
Johnson Memorial Hospital.

The Generals do not play this Saturday because of the
bye week, but they return to action Sept. 26 at Centre. Fallon
feels these two weeks are key to continuing the progress he
saw in the second half.

“I'm thankful for these two weeks. We had some peop‘e _

in new positions who didn’t have enough reps. We’re not
going to make any wholesale changes, but when you’re
young you hesitate and your feet freeze. These two weeks
will helps us teach these kids what they did right and what
they did wrong.”

Spears echoes Fallon’s point about youth.

“E&H was simply better than us on Saturday,” s ‘d
Spears. “We’re a young team, but we continued to impro e
throughout the whole game. All the way around, we’re
much better.”

Water polo survives stern test in Classic

By CHRIS SANTORA
Phi Contributin g Writer

As the Washington and Lee water polo team entered its
1992 campaign last weekend, many felt that the tearn’s
depth would be one of their strong points.

After this weekend’s results, head coach Page Remillard
beleives his optimism was definitely not unfounded.

The Generals captured the W & L Fall Classic in classic
style. W&L dispatched Hampden—Sydney, 18-6, Johns
Hopkins, 12-11, and then in the finals, Richmond, 11-10 in
double overtime.

The Generals got things rolling on Saturday with an easy
romp over Harnpden-Sydney. The scoring was evenly dis-
persed. Junior Greg Golub paced the Generals with three

goals and two assists, while senior Chris Hagge racked up
two goals and three assists. Sophomore Ruben Monger
recorded two goals and an assist. A pleasant
surprise was the play of three promising freshmen. The trio
of Rich Cober, Pat McKenna and Dane Merkle each scored
two goals and added one assist. their strong play demon-
strated that W&L can look forward to a strong season.

The Generals ran into a much stiffer test in their second
match of the day against a solid Johns Hopkins squad. W&L
trailed Hopkins 7-4 at the break, but rallied to tie the score
at 10. The Generals added two more goals late in the second
half to secure a 12-11 victory, and a trip to Sunday's final.

Golub led the Generals with four goals, bringing his two-
game total to seven; Hagge upped his goal count to five with
three in Saturday evening's competition.

463-7969

ad space th

will see

For just $30

You can rent an

tons of people **

at

Do
Help!
Sell ads for the Phi...

Call Benji Plummer at

463-8581

     
   

.\_ SERWC

I a¢e‘@.rcard'

Eé, INC-

60*“

 

  

  

Photo & Video Imaging
 

You Want VISA 8. MasterCard redlt Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards In the world...Vtsa® and MasterCard®
credit cards..."In your name.“ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISAS’ and MasterCard® the credit cards you
desenie and need Ior—— ID—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
ST ORES—TUITION—I-ZNTERTAI NM ENT-
EMERGENCY (‘ASH-—TICKETS—RES’I‘AURAN'IS—
H0_TELS—-MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS-
REPAIRS—AND TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING!

»““m

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

Get #a new imagei.|n A Flash
20x30 COLOR PHOTO POSTER -

$24.95 WITH COUPON

 

FROM YOUR 55MM COLOR NEGATIVE
POSTERS FROM SLIDES OR PRINTS ALSO AVAILABLE ’

 

14 E. Campbell Ave.
Roanoke, VA 24013

1-800-537-5227 ,

I

The last and perhaps the most anticipated match of the
tournament pitted the Generals against their arch rival, the
Richmond spiders. Going into the fourth quarter the Gener-
als held a tenuous 9-5 lead, and surprisingly controlled the
tempo against a dominant Richmond team that had routed ‘
Johns Hopkins.

In the fourth, Richmond rallied to knotthe game at 10-30
with one second left in regulation. The teams headed into
overtime with momentum headed in Richmonti’s favor.

One of the General’s problems last year was closing out
matches and tiring in the fourth period against powerful
opponents. This game proved that this year could be differ-

Ci See CLASSIC, pageﬂ 1

ii

22

E

Y
2--2)-2-DD--1-Z"-D1111

approved immediately.

‘:3

3&0 No credit

1%“ oz -
I msﬁgxafg? A No security deposit!
G?’ 5°.‘ Approwil absolutely guaranteed so scma, M,.,c..,.,.,

ADDRESS

PHONE __
SIGNATURE

NOTE Mastercnrd is a registered trademark d’ Mmteroud lntemational Inc.
Visa is I: registered tndermrtt otvtsa USA. Inc. and VISA International

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX l792lI.PLANTATION.FL 33318 :
I  iwantVISA®/MASTERCARDQ Credit :
Cards. Enclosed find 35 which is 100% refundable If not I
I

I

I

I

I

STATE _. ZIP 9

s.s.~ __.__ I

I

I

I
9

.'

100°/II GUARANTEED!

 

