5,

C P

3*-I4

.7'[£9{£ COMES THE 13211272

ﬂluthor Elntertains
with Stories
of (I/I/eC[£[i11ﬂ5 gone ﬂlwry V

t,';~é’\F’T;$i'TY LIBRARY
WAgHHlElGTiOl‘li§l LEE umvettsm

;ggt%RV2\' ,
Generals Stumble

Basketball Team Frustrated

by Two ODAC Losses

IE

 

VOLUME 92, NO.15

he ‘tiling-tum ljﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Hail to the Chief

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

education.

Cadets at the Virginia Military In

stitute stand at attention Wednesday in honor of the in
usually sends a drill team to presidential inaugarations, but their application to participate this year was denied. On Tuesday, VMI
J lawyers filed an appeal to the United States Supreme Court in a fin

auguration of President Bill Clinton. VMI

al attempt to continue the institute’s tradition of single-sex

I .Will addresses Convocation

i
A

,1

Author asks America to rethink education; ODK l

 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi
.WilI mixes humor into his serious message on Convocation Day.

City organizes
I -film premiere

By MOLLY APTER
Phi Contributing Writer

It's not Hollywood, but if all
goes as planned, Lexington will
have its own authentic movie
premiere for “Sommersby.”

A group of planners includ-
ing Lexington Downtown De-
velopment Association Director

' Diane Herrick and LDDA Presi-

dent Caner Lowry are trying to
organize a local premiere of
“Sommersby,” parts of which
were shot in Lexington last June.

The only hitch, plarmers say,
is that they don’t know on what

‘ night the premiere will be.

“Everything’s not really set,”
Lowry said. “We’d like to have
two showings [of the movie] the
nightbefore it opensnationwide.”

Rightnow, the movie is sched-
uled to open in Lexington on

9 Feb. 5, the same date it will open

across the country, Lowry said,
but the committee has asked the
movie’s distributor for permis-
sion to show the movie on Feb. 4.

ButLowrysaid, “We willhave
a showing Friday as apremiere if
we can’t do it Thursday.”

“A limited number of tickets
will be set aside for dignitaries,”
Lowry said. “The rest will be
available to the public on a first-
come basis.”

Herrick said tickets will cost

a $15 to $20.

Herrick said tickets will in-

clude a $5 voucher good at
LDDA-member restaurants the
night of the premiere.

Herrick said the committee is
trying to involve most of the city
in the festivities by asking down-
town stores to stay open late th
night of the premiere. —

Herrick said the premiere,
whichever night it is, will in-
clude search lights and carriage
rides from the Lexington Car-
riage Company for local resi-
dents who were extras in the film.

“We tentatively have permis-
sion to close down Nelson Street
from Main to Jefferson” streets
in front of the State Theatre,
Herrick said. City Council will
consider the measure tonight.

Proﬁts from the premiere will
go toward furthering the preser-
vation of the downtown area
which brought “Sommersby” to
Lexington in the first place,
Herrick said ~

“Lexington was chosen be-
cause very little had to be done to
transform it into a town of the

1800s,” Herrick said.

Lexington’s utility wires were
buried underground in the 1970s.
The production crew still had to
remove the short light poles
which line the streets.

The crew also covered the
streets with dirt and built false
store fronts.

The movie, which stars Rich-
ard Gere and Jodie Foster, was
filmed mostly in Bath County.

By RICHARD WEAVER

to channel their leadership abilities
into improving America’s education
system.

“We have at-
tempted in the
last 40 years to
measure the cali-
ber of education
not by measur-
ing cognitive
outputs...but in-
stead by ﬁnancial outputs: future sal-
ary, how big is the school, how many
books in the library...It’s very clear
that something needs to be done about
the philosophy of education,” Will
said.

The leadership honor society in-

C] For excerpts from WlIl’s
Convocation address, see
page 2.

the community.

nitlates 27

ducted 27 students and four honorary
initiates in front of a capacity crowd

Ph‘ Smff Wm" in Lee Chapel. The ceremony coin-

cided with the l23rd celebration of

Columnist George Will told Omi- Founder’s Day, the birthday of Gen.
cron Delta Kappa initiates Tuesday Robert E. Lee.

Following Will's speech, ODK
President Jay Darden addressed the
crowd about the nature of leadership.

“It was
Woodrow Wil-
son who said,
‘The true leader
is one who is
quick to know
and to do the
things that the

hour needs. ’ Real leadership is rooted
in action and in the example that we
set for others," Darden said.

ODK, which was founded at W&L
in 1914, recognizes leadership and
service experience in the campus and

JANUARY 21, 1993

Record 22 I
depledge

By LEIGH ALLEN and FAITH TRUMAN
of The Ring-tum Phi Staff

Just two weeks into formal pledgeship,
more than 22 men have depledged frater-
nities, seven more than in all of the 1991-
1992 year.

Some fraternity members and univer-
sity officials say the increase is the result
of freshmen who are committing more
time to academics and questioning the
value of Washington and Lee's fraternity
system.

“W&L has risen to an academic level
that brings people in who are not pre-
pared for the fraternity system,” said one
freshman who depledged a fraternity be-
cause he said it was too singular.

Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins said he
believes academics played a role in the
increase. .

“Every year we’re dealing with stu-
dents who are a little more serious about
their work,” Atkins said. “Even in the
semester when they were only supposed
to be social members, they were prob-
ably spending a lot of time with [pledge
responsibi1ities].”

As of Monday, Atkins said 22 fresh-
men depledgedwithout rejoining another
house. Several more have depledged one
house and joined another, and two fresh-
man pledges transferred from W&L.

The Interfratemity Council discussed
the depledgings in a closed meeting on
Jan. 12.

One freshman who depledged said
being in a fraternity damaged his rela-
tionship with other students. He said he
came to W&L thinking students had a
mutual respect for each other and found
fraternities created unnecessary rivalries.

Another freshman who depledged
thinks money is pan of the problem with
the fraternity system.

“The whole pledgeship thing is a joke
and a waste of time. When you consider
how much it costs, it’s just not worth it,"
he said.

Dean of Students David Howison said
fraternities should considerlowering their
fees to allow more students to join.
Howison also said fraternities should
eliminate hazing to keep members.

“I think fraternities with no-hazing
policies will have a definite advantage
over other houses inthe future,” Howison
said.

“The actual line-ups weren’t so bad,”
said one freshman who depledged. “It
was getting called at two o’clock in the
morning to run errands that bothered me.”

Atkins said he hopes fraternities re-
duce the number of hours pledges spend
doing what he says are meaningless tasks
and errands.

“The hours they spend doing things
likepicking uplaundry and gettingnachos
is ridiculous,” Atkins said. “’Ihat’s a waste
of time.”

Many pledges agree.

“They say they do what they do to the
pledge class to bring us closer together,”
one former pledge said. “But running
stupid errands doesn ’t create friendships.”

But one pledge educator said that what
some people consider meaningless er-
rands actually build character and disci-
pline.

“You have to keep the pledges busy.
They have to feel like they have worked
hard and contributed something to the
fraternity before they can join,” he said.

One freshman who depledged said he
chose the wrong house because Rush was
too early in the year.

“I had no clue what the house was
really like when I pledged,” he said. “It
ended up not being the right house for
me.”

IFC President Sam Rock said last week
that moving fraternity Rush later in fall
term, a proposal IFC is considering in its
reevaluation of Rush, might reduce the
number of dissatisfied freshmen.

Atkins said he believes the depledgings
are a bad sign for the fraternity system
because lost pledges means lost revenue.

“This is a marketing problem,” Atkins
said. “Apparently we have a consumer
who is not very happy with the product.”

Atkins said the university has an inter-
est in keeping fraternities’ numbers high
because it relies on the Greek tax to help
pay for Fraternity Renaissance.

But one pledge educator said many
freshmen pledge a fraternity even though

they do not belong in one because frater-

nities are popular at W&L.

“There are people out there who 1

don’t understand the fraternity system,”
he said. “They come to this school and
pledge because everyone else is pledging.
Those who depledge realize that they
don’t want to be involved in the fraternity
system.”

Senior Copy Editor Nikki Magaziner
Contributed to this story.

THE
WILSON

DECADE
Reflecting on 10 years at W&L

Ten years ago this week, John Delane
Wilson took the oath of ofﬁce to become
the 21st president of Washington and
Lee University.

Since then, many things have hap-
pened that have changed the face of
W&Lforever. Coeducation. Gaines Hall.
Fraternity Renaissance. The Lenfest

Center. The Watson Gallery.

But ask Wilson about his accomplishments of the past decade and what does he think

of ﬁrst?

By GREGORY PA1'rERsoN
Phi News Editor

Dumpster fences.

“I remember, this is true, building those little wooden facilities
around the dumpster behind the Bookstore,” Wilson said in an
interview last week.

“I used to come out of the back gate [of Lee House], and there were naked dumpsters there. And
that’s where two—thirds of the students walk. So I said to Jim Arthur, the superintendent of Buildings

and Grounds, one day, ‘Do you suppose we could build a little picket fence around the dumpster?’
“And every time I walk down that alley I take some satisfaction in that.” .

El See WILSON,” page 5

Rush
prompts
concern

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

Sorority Rush is over, but
questions linger as to how it was
conducted and why more women
did not pledge.

“There were concerns ex-
pressed to Panhellenic [Council]
about how different groups were
interpreting Rush rules,” Panhel
President Carrie Eubanks said.

AfterPreference Ni ghtThurs—
day, quota was set at 27 women
for each sorority. Kappa Alpha
Theta, Kappa Kappa Gamma and
Chi Omega each snagged 27,
while Pi Beta Phi got 24.

But Eubanks said more girls
didn’t receive bids this year than
in previous years.

Eubanks said there is no clear
reason why so many women fell
through the system, especially
since the addition of Pi Phi.

Pi Phi National Consultant
Lauren Gross said W&L’s 4-
year-old sorority system still has
some growing to do.

“There’s a lot of potential
here,”Gross said.

Some freshman women say
they are disillusioned with Rush.

“It seemed to me like all the
same girls got asked back every-
where,” one freshman said. “I
felt like the whole thing was just
too competitive.”

 

 

PAGE 2

 

 

Glitz Itiing-tum lﬁlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Familiar face,
new perspective

In two and a half years as a Washington and Lee student,
Gregory Patterson, Phi news editor, had never had aone-on-
one conversation with University President John Wilson.
Last week, Patterson went to Wilson’s ofﬁce to interview
him for the Phi story that begins on today‘s page one: “The
Wilson Decade.”

Patterson questioned Wilson on the brightest and darkest
moments of his career -- from the 1983 transition to
coeducation, to the 1990 bottle-throwing incident and con-
sequent roasting by students. The John Wilson that comes to
life in Patterson’s story doesn’t always ﬁt with the image of
the president widely held by the current student generation.

In subtle contrast to his elegant Washington Hall ofﬁce
with its cleanly polished, antique furniture, Patterson found
Wilson with a loosened collar and without a jacket for their
afternoon interview. Wilson ’s presentation was symbolic of
what Patterson describes as the surprising ease with which
the president talked about the last 10 years.

In reflecting on the interview, Patterson notes that Wilson
almost never uses abbreviations in his speech. He does not
say, “W&L” or“SCC,” for example, but always, “Washing-
ton and Lee” or “Student Conduct Committee.” This ten-
dency indicates the deliberateness and precision with which
Wilson speaks, Patterson speculates, carefully choosing his
words.

Patterson says his research on Wilson and the interview
both gave an impression of the president as a true man of
letters, a staunch and vocal ‘advocate of liberal arts educa-
tion.

“We are born in a sliver of time and place and culture,”
Wilson told The Ring-tum Phi in 1982 in what Patterson
cites as his favorite Wilson quote, “And all that we know of
ourselves and our world if we lived only that life would be
very, very parochial, indeed.”

But Patterson says what surprises him most about Wilson
is his humanity.

“He realizes he has ﬂaws as a president,” Patterson says,
“and he regrets it.”

Wilson’s recollections of the bott]e;tl}roglting girtcgident
bring out his human side in Pattersonfs story.p'Wils9n,to1ld
Patterﬁsoni that ' *suspending the ‘°stude’nts ‘involved’ in the
incident might not have been the right thing to do, and he
acknowledged that his actions might have been inﬂuenced
by emotions. Fraternity Renaissance is, after all, his baby.

“When those things happened to his project,” Patterson
says, “he was hurt by it. He took it personally and reacted to
it like it was an attack against him.”

Patterson says that his interview with Wilson might have
given his story a sympathetic bias, but he maintains that the
story presents a view of the president that students might
ﬁnd enriching. '

“Anytime I spend with someone, I tend to come away
[with the feeling that] I understand him a little more,”
Patterson says. “But hell, I got achance to talk to Wilson one
on one, which is something not many students get to do....
My article might be the only way they can get that same
feeling.” I

— CL, RP

Glitz Iﬂtng-tum lﬂltt

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carnott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummet
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

‘,’ 5: ll

M. L

0
The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

W’?-5)’ MIL GLtr~%'t‘o:I,

171$‘ Ir‘/\0G«vt:,.a.'i‘l0N’S .

/“3'°°" T° 356113 .

True leadership skills elude many.

President Wilson said I was not deterred from the
inaugural festivities. I am in ﬂight.

In Washington, Bill Clinton is on the verge of
learning what Adlai Stevenson knew. He said,
“America is a great and wonderful country, where
any young person can grow up to be president, and
that’s just the risk you have to take.”

 I don’t think that there is, in American history,
anything comparable to the mood swing in this
country between the bombing of Baghdad and 15
months later the burning of Los Angeles. ...Wi1dly
overdone in my judgment, [was the jubilation over]
Desert Storm, [though] a war worth ﬁghting. Still,
the United States and 26 allies defeated a country
with the gross national product of Kentucky.

percent are Hispanic. Eighty-ﬁve percent of students
come from families with no father. The school is rim
by heroic teachers doing their very best, but they say
that one of the conditions of teaching is that they
never assign homework — ever — because, they
say, almost all of their students go home after school
to be parents to their siblings.

We are evolving today in America as a civiliza-
tion where the cities are not primarily important as
centers of culture or commercial vitality, but impor-
tant primarily as burdens. We are experiencing some-
thing today without precedent in American history:
broad-scale urban regression in the midst of general
prosperity.

 We live in the only country in NATO  in

...Equally irrational was the b which children go to
overwhelming despair sleepatnightinparts
aboutthequality of Ameri- of large cities hear-
can life after the riots in GEORGE WILL ing gunfire. We
1-05 An8°1eS- Washin ton Post Writers Grou knowwhattheprolr
This was the context in g p lem is -— it is patho-
which the country began to logical behavior.

decide whether to give the Republican party four
more years. Only four times in American history has
one party controlled the White House for more than
12 years; it is a very long time in our politics. And so
we were prepared to give the outsider the benefit of
the doubt. Mr. Bush campaigned on doubt. He said,
essentially, that Bill Clinton was Henry of Navarre.

You might recall from your history classes that
Henry of Navarre was the king of France who
periodically converted to Catholicism. He was fond
of saying, on one famous occasion, the words that
are a motto of all politicians, “Paris is well worth a
Mass.” The question was, was Bill Clinton what he
said he was, or was he feigning a new faith until he
got to power? We'll have to ﬁnd that out. What we
do know is, the political market has worked in the

United States,‘ in that the ‘ Detno_cratic' party ‘ has I "
. chang‘ed,’or' tried to change, in its perception of itself.

In 1988-, a’ very wise Democrat, before a single
delegate was chosen, looking at the way they’d been
losing elections for generations, including in the
South and the West, said that the Democratic nonri-
nee ought to be part Horace Greeley and part U.S.
Grant: someone who could go west and capture the

South. So they nominated the governor of Massa-
r-hnsettg

This year they learned the law of holes. The law
of holes is, when you're in a hole, quit digging....

[Now Clinton clearly wants] to rekindle the ex-
citement such as it was in the Kennedy years. What
he will discover, I’m afraid, is that the most profound
change in the 32 years since John Kennedy was
president, is the radical decline in the prestige of
government itself. This was reﬂected, I believe, in
the 1992 elections, by the fact that 14 states, given
the chance to vote on term limitations, all voted for
those limitations. In 13 of those 14 states, term
limitations did almost as well as Bill Clinton did. In
14 states, term limitations got more votes than Ross
Perot got in 50 states. There is a general sense that the
political class in the United States is today so gripped
by careerism, so bent on prolonging its professional
life in higher ofﬁce, that it cannot take into account
the difficult decisions in the public interest. Ihappen
to believe that’s correct,

But what the American people are saying is 
that they have a very  skeptical view of the utility
of government itself, partly because of the composi-
tion of government, but most of all because of the
composition of our problems. Let me give three
examples  education, our cities and the conduct of
life in Washington, D.C.

With regard to education, I think many Ameri-
cans believe, frankly, that we are today graduating
the first generation of Americans, from high school,
less well-educated than the generation that came
before. Everyone in this room knows it is perfectly
possible to graduate from an American high school
and be functionally illiterate, unable to read, let
alone write. The reasons for this are complicated;
they begin with the obvious fact that we have the
shortest school year and the shortest school day in
the industrial world. It was formulated for the needs
of a ranching and farming nation in the late 19th
century, when children were needed on the farms in
the late spring and early fall. That is of limited
relevance in south-central Los Angeles. It also is the
case that we have attempted in the last 40 years,
encouraged by public education lobby, to measure
the caliber of education not by measuring cognitive
outputs (measured by national tests of the sort we do
not have and other nations do), but by measuring
instead ﬁnancial inputs: teacher salaries  how big
is the school, how many books in the library. The
problem is, we do not have national testing, but the
market tests sooner or later. And so when the New
York Telephone Company gives an entry-level ap-
titude test to 1 17,000 young people and 1 15,000 fail
—— when Motorola gives an entry-level aptitude test
designed to measure ﬁfth-grade math and seventh-
grade English skills, and 80 percent fail — the
market is giving a test. It's very clear that something
needs to be done about the philosophy of education.

Perhaps choice for schools; there are an array of
ideas, and the country is insisting that we try them.
The most thoughtful Americans understand the prob-
lems with our schools, and they are joined with the
problems with our cities through one great fact, and
that is the distress of many American families.

I was recently at a school in Chicago. In the
school, 85 percent of the students are black, 15

We talk about budget cuts. It costs $5,000 a day
for a neo-natal group to take care of a crack baby. It
costs $60,000 a year in the last year of life in a
hospital for an AIDS patient. Now, as the American
peoplelook at these problems, they look to Washing-
ton, and they don’t like what they see. They see a
government that 30 years ago really believed that it
had so mastered the management of the modern
economy that growth could be studied in a business
cycle, and the great problem for our time would be
the equitable allocation of constant surplus revenues
for pressing needs. That was 30 years ago, when we
announced a “great" society — “good” wouldn’t
suffice — great. Well, times have changed.

 We have not just a United States, but an entire
part of the world that we’ve been carrying since the
end of World War II, gradually, almost absentmind-
edly, translating the idea of civil rights into a doctrine
of economic entitlements, and making enormous
problems to ourselves as a matter of right: huge calls
for the future productivity of the country as a right.
They’re neglecting one great fact and that is the
demographic fact of societies such as ours: the popu-
lation ages.

 I was on the road this morning and I didn’t get
to see the “Today” show, so I don’t know if Willard
did his number, because Willard usually comes out
with a picture of someone 100 years old. Do you
know that in seven years, at the end of the century,
the percentage of Americans 65 or older, nation-
wide, will be what it is in Florida, the retirement
state, today? I don’t know how many of you recently
turned 50. I did. And it’s bad enough to have the
derision of your children, but you begin to receive in
your mail, unbidden, a magazine called [Modem]
Maturity, full of lively and sinewy older people
bursting with health. It comes from the American
Association of Retired Persons, which enrolls you in
a huge lobby, and it takes a Supreme Court injunc-
tion to get off the list. The largest organization in the
United States is the Catholic Church, and the second
largest is the AARP. This is true power, but getting
back to Willard Scott: he holds up a picture and says,
“This is a picture of ‘Elsa Mae Fudge’ and Elsa Mae
is 100 years old.” And as you look at her face on the
screen, she looks every day of it.... [A]tthe beginning
of the 1980s there were 18,000 Americans 100 years
old or older, and that number doubled in the 1980s.
Demographers predict that by the year 2000, there
will be 1 million Americans 100 years old or older.
You could make a city — a very quiet city, a city
without sexually transmitted diseases.

...Less than 15 percent of our gross national
product goes to health care. We don’t realize that a
lot of our health care is optional. We tend in this
country to be transﬁxed by the polio paradigm:
Because technological silver bullets slayed this dis-
ease, we tend to think that those things are the best
medical technologies. We then tend to equate health
with the application of medicine, which results in a
disease-oriented, hospital-centered, high-tech medi-
cine that is too expensive, whereas, in fact, if we
lived as sensiblyas trout or beaver, we wouldn’thave
these problems.

We are the only animal that drinks too much, eats
improperly, doesn’texercise and doesn’t use seatbelts.
If we just did those things we would cut our medical
bill by 50 percent. These are the problems that the
country faces. Thirty percent of all Medicare dollars
are spent on people in their last year of life. The
ethical problems implicit in rationing medicine are
extraordinary.

All the while that the government is gripped with
these problems, all of America must look around and
say that a welfare state, which was supposed to be
ameliorative, may have adverse consequences. If
someone had told us 40 years ago that the elaboration
of the welfare state would coincide with an epidemic
of sexually contracted diseases, an epidemic of teen-
age pregnancy, 1.5 million abortions a year, a perma-
nent underclass in our cities -— that’s what a welfare
state was meant to cure, and it hasn't worked out, and
now the American people are wondering what in fact
is in store for them and the great American promise.

 The great American promise was that we are a
nation of individual rights, individuals striving to
individual happiness as decided by individuals. In-
creasingly in the United States, that promise is being
replaced by a doctrine of group rights. ...[But] the
great romance is gone; I would say that it peaked in
the 1960s and it’s gone, Ithink, for good, particularly

the romance of the central government. It fell victim

to the Great Society promises, which are very fairly «

perceived as promising much more than they do. The
euphoria and prestige of the government began to
evaporate quickly with Vietnam and Watergate.
People began to question the motives of governmeﬁt,
and the whole movement gathered steam in Califor-
nia in 1978 when an initiative passed with severe
limitations on taxes, Proposition 13. Three years
later, a serious tax cut swept through both houses of
Congress, powered by both parties: a general sense
that the Leviathan must be slowed down.

I think there is today a growing gap between the
politics and the culture of the city in which I live. 
I heard a speaker say, “All change in America begins
in the ballot box.” Every page in American history, it
seems to me, refutes that. And that sense that politics
is at the center of American life is very distorted and
very distracted.

I tend to think that change in America begins what
the working blacksmith invents a “self—scouring”
steel plow... that defeated wooden plows, and you can
read this blacksmith’s name today in yellow and
green paint on big machines: John Deere. Change in
America begins when someone such as Eli Whitney

serves as a tutor on a southern plantation, helping to . A

teach people to separate cotton fibers from cotton
seeds.... Change in America begins when Henry Ford
in a Detroit garage has an idea for a vehicle to travel
long distances, made with mass production. Change
in America begins when two brothers in a bicycle
shop tinker with a contraption that will one day
change how America experiences its vast distances.
Change in America begins when a man named Jo
Wesley Hyatt wins $10,000 for inventing billiard
balls not made of ivory, develops a new way of
making something called celluloid for experiences
for which Hollywood was created.

In 1954, a middle-aged, traveling salesman who
sells six-spindled electric mixers caleed multi-mix-
ers, pauses in the parking lot of the McDonald bro —
ers restaurant in San Bemadino, Calif., and says,
“These people are using eight mixers at the same
time.  what do they know?” Ray Kroc invented not
only a great corporation. but also a whole industry.

Change in America is not just material change; it’s
not just words. Change begins with a church in
Massachusetts that has a religious revival that prom-
ises to become the Great Awakening. Change 191
America begins when Harriet Beecher Stowe writes
a novel, or 100 years later when another writer,
Harper Lee writes aTo Kill A Mockingbird. Change
begins when Upton Sinclair writes The Jungle or
Lincoln Steffens writes The Shame of the Cities.
Change in America begins when Mark Twain begins
a distinctly American style of literature. ‘

No good society is set by politics. Anybody should
know this. In fact, the health of America depends on
a growing impatience, which I feel is wholesome,
good news. The growing impatience with the slip-
shod and second rate is coming....I came across an
advertisement with the top 10 cars ranked in terms of /
new car satisfaction. They circled Buick in red. Buick
was ﬁfth. You see, the other nine were seven Japanese
and two German cars. It was unspoken that American
cars were not expected to be as good as the foreigners.
In my  column I presented this issue, and received
a letter from Buick saying that I had been terribly
unfair — they were nearly fourth. I wrote back to say
that I had never heard of basketball fans cheering
,“We’re number four!” I don’t want to live in a
country like that.

I think that it is in the governments closest to home
that the good government decisions are made, that-it

‘ is the mediating institutions of life — schools,

churches, fraternal organizations ——_that make life
better. The idea of looking for salvation in a capitd
city dominated by a very peculiar class, on the fringe
of a very large continent, makes no sense. What
America depends upon, and what institutions like
Washington and Lee deal with, is the salvation of one
person at a time by the transition to high standards.

The greatest baseball story, which is even better
because it is true, is based on the greatest right-hand‘.
hitter in baseball, Roger Homsby. [There] was a
rookie pitcher on the mound who threw three pitches
which he thought were strikes and the umpire said,
”Ball 1.... Ball 2.... Ball 3.” The pitcher shouted to the
umpire, “Hey, those were strikes!” And the umpire
took off his mask and said, “No young man, when you
throw a strike, Mr. Homsby will let you know.”
secret of America is for all of us to become a Roger
Homsby for our community, a standard by which a
good performance is judged.

I want to thank you for allowing me to come to this
beautiful campus tovshare all of this with you. I may
have said some things you didn’t agree with. I cer-
tainly hope not. I'll just tell you to take it in the spirit
of American politics. American politicians are fon
of a story in which two clergyrnen meet on the street.
One of them is Methodist and one is Irish Catholic.
The Irishman says, “Can’t we be friends; after all we
worship the same God?” The Methodist man said, “I
know we worship the same God: you in your way and
I in His.” I think on this Inauguration Day, in the

words of a great Virginian, we’re all Republicans,‘ I

we’re all Democrats, we’re all in the same party,
wishing the new administration well, knowing, as
we’re mature people, not to expect too much.

The previous column was a transcript of portions
of George Will’sFounder’ s Day Convocation speech
and was reprinted with permission.

Chris Matthews will retun next week. 0

    

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

OPINION

Knocks and pings shake up Spos’ car

SPOS’ SPACE

-

g.4~,,,

By Tom Hespos

‘Over the past few years, I have
developed this twisted love/hate rela-
tionship with my car. When I made the
transition from boy to man by passing
my road test and getting a full-ﬂedged
driver’s license, my father presented
me with his ancient Volkswagen Beetle.
D!d was convinced that this car would
make me the most popular guy in my

-V high school. And why shouldn’t it?

1.

Everyone else was driving either a
Mustang or a Carnaro or something
else that could exceed the speed of
, sound (usually in first gear, I might

acﬂ). But Spos was going to be differ- '

ent. He would cruise around in a 1971
yellow bug with a convertible top and
would be completely incapable of fend-
ing off the gorgeous women, even if he
enlisted the aid of an Uzi.

. Dad was really proud of this car. He

, bmght it new and drove it only on

.A

V

special occasions, waiting for the day
when his son would earn his driver’s
license and drive it down to the beach,
as he so often liked to do. Dad made
sure that he kept it in good condition by
occasionally reminding my sister not
toﬁean her bicycle up against it or jump
‘ up and down on the convertible top as
if it were a trampoline.

By the time I got around to passing

« my road test and actually driving the

4

car, it had just a few minor dents, and
the roof was only partially caved in. As
a matter of fact, I remember one windy
day, while driving myself and my friend
Craig to school, the entire roof ripped
loose from the rest of the car and nearly

’ 1 caused the deaths of about 10 of my

schoolmates, who were piled into the
Camarobehind us. As I watched the
pieces of roof fly off and situate them-
selves about the highway, I said a re-

‘ ally bad word that starts with “s” and

ends with “hit.”

I believe I said that exact same word
last Friday night, when during a solo
road trip over the mountain to Sweet
Briar, my little punch buggy decided to
make a nasty noise and sputter to a
stop. Of course, with Murphy's Law
still governing the greater part of the
universe, this problem occurred on the
strip of Route 60 that is mostly inhab-
ited by deer and people named Jim Bob
who are unaware that the Civil War has
ended. After screaming the aforemen-
tioned S-word at the top of my lungs, I
decided to engage in a well-known
male ritual which Spos will describe as
“opening the engine compartment and
staring at the motor as if I could possi-
bly fix the problem out here in the
middle of nowhere without tools.”

At this moment, Spos simply prayed
for the problem to be something minor
that didn't require a wrench to fix. God
saw fit to grant His mercy and Spos
was able to make an adjustment that
would allow him to restart the car and
continue in his quest to get to Sweet
Briar before his cute girlfriend reported
him missing to the State Police. Dur-
ing the rest of the voyage over the
mountain, Spos had to stop about eight
times to make further adjustments to
the engine using the “percussive main-
tenance method” which involved kick-
ing the car and swearing loudly at no
one in particular. In the meantime, the
deer and other furry woodland crea-
tures were probably convening deep in
the heart of the woods, trying to figure

LETTERS

-. W&L should nurture city

out the meanings of the random swear
words that spewed forth from my
mouth.

At 10 minutes past seven o’ clock, I
greeted my girlfriend,Jennifer at the
door of Carson Dormitory with grease-
covered hands and a frustrated look on
my face.

“I might have to stop a few times on
the way back over the mountain to fix
my car,” I warned. “It’s been acting up
lately.”

Looking back, I commend Jennifer
for her patience and understanding of
the whole situation. I think that we
must have stopped 185,000 times on
the way back to W&L. Using ad-
vanced, college-honed math skills, Spos
estimates that approximately l,067,43 2
swear words escaped his lips that frigid
night. And that’s not all.

Coming down the side of the moun-
tain, where the angle of descent of the
road allows one to coast into Buena
Vista at approximately the speed of
light, the car began to make noises.
Not stop-the-car-because-the-motor-
needs-an-adjustrnent noises, but rather
start-praying-because-the-front-end-is-
about-to-explode type noises. Spos
quickly remedied this by turning up the
radio to a level that tends to promote
permanent hearing loss. Still, Jennifer
could hear the front end noises under
the 140-decibel screech of Eddie Van
Halen’s guitar. She then decided to
contribute to the already scary situa-
tion by assuming a crash position not
unlike those demonstrated to airline
passengers by stewardesses.

“I wouldn ’t worry about that noise,”
I said as Eddie soloed through “Why
Can ’tThis Be Love.” “It doesn’tsound
life-threatening.”

Jennifer gave me a frightened look
like the one a chipmunk gives you
before you ﬂatten it with your car.
Needless to say, this boosted Spos’
confidence tenfold.

As we sputtered into town on a wing
and aprayer, I wondered if anyone in or
near Lexington was capable of work-
ing on a Beetle. I could almost visual-
ize Jim Bob the mechanic expressing
confusion when he discovers that, as is
the case with most German cars, the
engine is located in the rear of the car.

This thought was cut short as we
pulled into my driveway and Jennifer
let out a squeal of delight, obviously
prompted by the notion that we had
made it back to Lexington alive and in
one piece.

Gathering Jennifer’sbelongings and
walking up the front walk to my house,
I glanced back at the car and saw that
one of the front wheels looked to be
preparing to separate itself from the
rest of the car. “Eureka,” I thought to
myself. “I do believe that I have dis-
covered the source of those front end
noises.” I said a silent prayer to God,
thanking Him for His use of divine
intervention in saving our butts.

Later, as I thumbed through the
latest issue of Road and Track maga-
zine, looking for a good buy on a new
car, I thought to myself that there was
no way I would everbe able to separate
myself from my yellow Beetle.

Admittedly, it is a piece of automo-
tive crap, but nothing could ever dupli-
cate the feeling I used to get when I
would cruise to the beach, Van Halen
wailing through the speakers and the
wind tossing my hair about. Occasion-
ally, a girl would even turn her head as
I went by.

Political vandals act

To the Editor:
As an outside observer (county resident) of
' thdcontinuing car-tax saga, it was interesting to
hear the war cries from The Ring-turn Phi [Nov.
' 19]. I'm sure that as a youth in their situation
(though without the BMW), I would have been
1' just as fired up at the seeming arbitrariness and
double taxation, etc. However (and perhaps it is
my “Boomer”-ness), I was struck with the
powntial for channeling that zeal in a direction
more relevant to the challenges their generation
. faces in making our society work for everyone.
Lexington and W&L go, well, you know,
,. way back. Each of them nurtures and enhances
. each other in all of the obvious ways_(services',

faculty kids schools, etc.) and inimany ways”

thg are probably as complex and symbiotic as
natural ecology. And Idare say, for many of the
residents, students, alumni and faculty there is
a deep bond of love for this community (one
which some Ring-tum Phi editors may some-

‘ day even come to enjoy.) Lexington is not a
huge, wasteful, money-hungry bureaucracy,
b actually just one of the rare beautiful little
towns trying to get by in a situation of limited
and diminishing resources and bleak economic
projections. It is the hope of many that it does

' survive and even prosper.

It is my understanding that colleges in other
communities (including the Harvard of the

0

North) have had to, either amicably or not,
come up with new revenue relationships which
meet their modern situations. Apparently, W&L
and the city have some agreement of that sort.
But is it actually adequate, considering their
holdings, etc.? Perhaps the budding politicians,
economists, lawyers and planners in the student
body could make a project of taking Lexington
under their wing, as if they were going to live
here, research the situation and make recom-
mendations.

Perhaps the relative strength of W&L’s en-
dowment relative to its size in the city and the
city’ s limitations would indicate a greater con-

 lti.buti0I.1;L€>r.perhap.s,th<:students would 60 9
 up with’ an ‘even more creative solution. n‘

either case, maybe they could eliminate their
car-tax in the process.

This situation may be somewhat complex
and suggesting help from the students may be
idealistic. However, solving the Lexington-
W&L revenue dilemma, in its relatively small
and contained world, would be minor (and
perhaps a good learning tool) for these students
compared to the problems they will inherit.
Seeing this problem from both sides would be
a good first step in realizing that, in the end, we
are all in “this” together.

Greg Sandage

To the Editor:

I realize that the Inaugural Ball has created some hysteria
among the nation’s liberal populace, but if the recent actions of
this faction’s branch at Washington & Lee is any indication of
future behavior, then the nation is in deep trouble. Iarn speaking
of the blatant disregard for the College Republicans and for their
desire to voice their own opinions. They have attempted to post
signs around campus in order to inform the college community
of club meetings and discussions, but these signs have been
repeatedly torn down and destroyed without provocation. I find
it amusing. that the left wing, the “tolerant” and the “open
minded”, do not have enough faith in their own political beliefs
to respect those of others. I find it disturbing that these people

. chastise the conseryatives-for,nai;rowrmindetibehavior when '~

I .th,ey‘rr1_trs; resgrtto, JuveniI¢,ta9iis$.lilss;.tat}.d§ili§:i}.in.9;d§,r.to
ensure that their message is heard. In my.op1m0n,- it rsrthrs type

of activity which destroys the very heart of an interactive‘

society. The increasingly liberal administration, with notable
exceptions, has refused to recognize the defamation of one of the
university’s most historic and powerful organizations. They
have ignored the words of the College Republicans who favor
idea exchanges and actual brain activity instead of the wallet
activity of the more liberal clubs. It is time for the liberals to
come down to earth. I realize that Bill Clinton's rise to the Oval
Office is exciting but I predict that this enthusiasm will disap-
pear in about 100 days and the nation will again look to the right
for guidance.

Sincerely,
Paul E. Wright, ’95
Press Secretary and Spokesman, College Republicans

Dean of Students reports increase in student arrests

Ttfthe Editor:
For the past two years, in an effort to
pincreaseeawareness of student disci-
plinary issues and promote more re-
sponsible behavior in our community,
I have published the student arrest
ords for alcohol—related incidents in

re
4 th ity of Lexington. Alcohol-related

arrests of Washington and Lee stu-
dents (DUI, possession under age,
drunkenness, noise and litter) declined
from a high of 100 in Fall Term 1988,
to 74 in Fall Term 1989, to 45 in Fall
Term 1990, to a low of 35 in Fall Term
1991.

For Fall Term 1992 just concluded,

45 Washington and Lee students were
arrested for alcohol-related incidents.
The overall increase was a direct result
of more noise complaints (14) and ar-
rests for public drunkeness (11) than
last fall. I hope that this increase to 45,
although still significantly lower than
the ﬁgures a few years ago, does not

indicate a trend in the wrong direction.

Remember, student conduct in Lex-
ington is a measure not only of indi-
vidual standards but-is also a reﬂection
of the standards of Washington and
Lee University.
David L.,Howison
Dean of Students

 

Recruitment

The Admisions Office needs
freshman males to help with re-
cmiting weekends. Please contact
Nancy Hickarn at 463-8710 for de-
tails.

Club LAX

There will be a Club Lacrosse
meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m. in
Newcomb Hall to discuss the up-
coming season.

Ariel

The absolute last deadline for
Ariel submissions is Feb. 1 by 5
p.m. Turn in photographs, artwork,
poetry and prose to Carol Calkins.
Questions? Call Brian Carpenter at
463-1001.

Big 4 Elections

Petitions for the positions of Ex-
ecutive Committee president, vice
president and secretary and Student
Conduct Committee chairman are
due Feb. 1. Petitions can be picked
up at Carol Calkins’ office.

Pre-Law

The W&L Pre-Law Society will
meet in room 221 of the Commerce
School tonight at 7 p.m. with mem-
bers of Phi Alpha Delta legal frater-
nity. Activities for the remainder of
the academic year will be discussed.
For further infomiation contact Prof.
John in room 12513 of the Com- ,
merce School.

Superdance

Registration packets for
Superdance are available in front of
Carol Calkins’ office. Sign up to be
a dancer and support MDA.

‘““=Ra uetbalr 
er-.5/:‘B ruxnlgl I;‘(.'\-‘) 5: ru_4\'.'r.:.;rL\|'-

‘ Anyone interested in laying In-,

3927‘ before Jan. ‘25 for dates and
information. The club needs people
of all skill levels.

AIDS Education

The AIDS Education Project will
host Dr. Merv Silverrnan ’60, presi-
dent of the American Foundation
for AIDS Research, tonight at 7:30
p.m. in Lee Chapel for a lecture
entitled, “AIDS: A Global Over-
view.” All are welcome.

Writing Center

The Writing Center is now open
Sunday through Thursday from 8
p.m. to 10 p.m. in Payne 2B. Stu-
dents who want help with writing
projects of any kind are encouraged
to sign up or to stop by for an indi-
vidual conference with a writing
tutor.

‘.1

j tra‘rnural'Rat;iretballsho' dc'a11464-"“ Wcounsellng

Calyx

You can still sign up for Calyx
senior pictures. Schedule sheets are
located outside Carol Calkins’ of-
fice. Sign up early to avoid a late
fee.

Amnesty

Amnesty International presents
two showings of “Missing” Friday
and Saturday at 8 p.m. at the Trou-
badour Theatre. Admission is free
and everyone is welcome.

Alumni Job

Members of the Class of '93 who
wish to be considered for W&L's
Alumni Staff Associate position in
1993-94 should apply by March 1.
Graduating seniors should submit a
letter of application and resume to
Director of Alumni Programs James
D. Farrar, Jr. in the Alumni office.
The position will become available
on July 1. A personal interview for
each applicant will be required.

Lost

Gold cuff-link with round face.
If found, please call Carlin at 464-
3758.

Grief Support

The Counseling Service will be-
gin a Grief Support group on Mon-
day at 3 p.m. Eight sessions will be
held and will cover such topics as
the manifestation of grief, remem-
bering, accepting and expressing
feelings, role changes, stress and
coping, anniversaries and memori-
alizing. If you are dealing with a
loss of a close friend or relative,
please join us. Call ext. 8590 for
more information.

-run-'1_.-‘ ‘-'.'i. r turr-

"rl}I‘§1\A’

A counseling/support group for
women with eating and/or compul-
sive exercise problems will meet on
Tuesday afternoons beginning Jan.
26. Call the Counseling Service at
ext. 8590 or the Health Center at
ext. 8401 to sign up and. receive
additional information.

Republicans

The College Republicans will
meet Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. The de-
bate topic will be “Foreign Trade”
and contemplation on Bill Clinton.

Help Wanted

The Phi is looking for a humor
columnist. Ifyou think you can make
the campus laugh, submit a sample
of your writing to room 208 in the
University, Center. For more infor-
mation call Fran at 463-8581.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

P
5.

4 Interviews and Photos
by Darran Winslow

,6-

‘ Sean Gatewood, ’93, Bel Air, Md.
« — “Moonboots and parachute pants.”

 

Alison Cowand, ’94, Norfolk, Va. Dan Morgenstern, ’95, Atlanta,
— “Wonder Woman Underoos.”

Ga. — “Leisure suits."

TALKBACK

 

   

Susan Wootton, ’93, Marietta, Ga.
— “Feathered hair.”

pus, what would it be?

Frost Bush, ’95, Savannah, Ga. —— John Kleckly, ’94, Columbia, S.C.
“Tennis socks with balls on the back.”

— “Members Only jackets."

If you could bring back anyfashion trendto the
Washington and Lee cam

  

 

 

Alumnus
to speak
on AIDS

By KRISTA TAURINS
Phi Contributing Writer

The head of the largest AIDS re-
search foundation in the world will
speak on the global impact of AIDS
tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Dr. Mervyn Silverman, a 1960 W&L
graduate, is president of the American
Foundation for AIDS Research.

Junior Patrick McDermott, founder
of the Washington and Lee AIDS Edu-
cation Project, said Silverman is known
worldwide for his work.

“He’s traveled all around the world,”
McDermott said. “It’s incredible. He
went to Spain with Elizabeth Taylor
and was given a Spanish peace prize by
the prince of Spain.”

McDermott said Silverman has done
AIDS-related research in Argentina,
India, Switzerland, China, France, the
Netherlands, South Africa, Senegal,
Egypt and Indonesia.

“And that’s just recently, so he has
a pretty good idea of the global prob-
lem,” McDermott said

After graduating from W&L,
Silverman went to Tulane Medical
School and then the Harvard School of
Public Health. From 1977 to 1985,
Silverman was director of the San Fran-
cisco Department of Health and helped
create a program to fight the AIDS
epidemic in that city.

He last visited W&L in 1988 when
he attended an AIDS conference here.

Silverman has served as the medi-
cal director for Planned Parenthood of
Kansas and as director of the Food and
Drug Administration Office of Con-
sumer Affairs. In 1986, Silverman
joined the American Foundation for
AIDS Research. Actress Elizabeth Tay-
lor is the foundation’s founding na-
tional chairman.

There will be a public reception in
Morris House following Silverrnan’s
speech.

His lecture is sponsored by the W&L
AIDS Education Project, the Univer-
sity Lectures Committee, the biology
department and the public policy pro-
gram.

The speech is open to the public.

 

NEWS

Photo by Malloryeyers, T'he ing—t Phi 3

New fraternity houses for Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi Epsilon in Davidson Park are due to be finished

in late summer, officials said.

Construction moves along

By KRISTA TAuR1Ns
Phi Contributing Writer

Schematic plans for the new science building should be
completed by late March, says Capital Planning Director
Frank Parsons.

“The architects are making period visits to the campus,
meeting with the heads of the science departments," said
Parsons. “Things are proceeding at normal progress.”

Payette Associates, Inc., an architectural firm from Bos-
ton that specializes in science and health care facilities, is
designing the new building. Their idea is to construct a
building between Parmly and Howe halls, creating one large
science complex.

When the building between Howe and Parmly is com-
plete, Parsons said, it will house the chemistry and geology
departments, as well as a science library.

“That will free up Howe Hall for renovation," Parsons
said. “When it is renovated, then biology and physics
ldepartmentslwillmove over from Parmly Hall.'I'hen Parmly
Hall will be renovated, with special accommodations made
for psychology and computer science.”

Tucker Hall, without the psychology department, will

. have more space for language facilities, and Robinson Hall,

once computer science moves out, will have more space for
mathematics.

While Parsons says that the science center is the highest
priority project going on, plans for a new student center have
not been completely forgotten.

“The student center project for the time being is in
suspension. We will be making some space changes as soon
as the Sigma Chi fraternity house is available,” Parsons said.

Those changes will most likely entail a shift of adminis-
trative offices from the University Center to the old Sigma
Chi house, Parsons said. He said the move would allow
more room for student activities and enable the school to
wait on construction of a new student center.

The new Sigma Chi house, as well as a house for Sigma
Phi Epsilon, are currently under construction in Davidson
Park. Parsons said both buildings are on schedule.

“We are anticipating that Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi
Epsilon will move into their houses in late summer,” Par-
sons said.

The on—campus construction of the Watson Gallery,
however, is not on schedule. Construction fell behind by
three weeks.

Thomas Litzenburg, director of the Reeves Center, said
the delay is due to the complex design of the building.

“It fell behind because of the intricacy of the forms that
they had to build for the foundation walls,” Litzenburg said.
“That’s the principal reason.”

Rather than being completed in February as originally
scheduled, Litzenburg expects the gallery to be completed
by mid-April.

Litzenburg said, however, that the gallery will not open
until late summer, allowing him to examine the artwork
before it is displayed.

“We need a couple of months to inventory to install the
Watson collection," he said.

F

M Lee
Fiatgliugh Lee
M.MiIey

ii'1"i”riim1nl5
lilllllllll

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 464-6464

WL Art   I

Q ,

1870 Washington College Diploma
signed “RE. Lee”

Signatures:

Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate re-strike. hand-colored
W&L and R.E.Lee limited edition art
Sculptures by Ron Tunison
George and Mary Washington pieces

R.E. Lee, Jr.
John Letcher

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus
representatives. Ski
packages also available.

CALL 1-800-648-4849.

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

ALASKA SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT

FISHERIES - Students Needed! Earn
$600+ per week in canneries or
$4,000+ per month on fishing boats.
Free Transportation! Room and Board!
Over 8,000 openings. No experience
necessary. MALE or FEMALE. For
employment program call:
1-206-545-4155 Ext. A5342
Student Employment Services

Achievement Through Adventure

JJ Su|dmuw|:hlng1.oIvoItlnALuhmtutbe
elghlem or older and in good physiul condition.

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

Got a Gripe?
Write to the Phi.

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

Christopher Parkening

(0)
(0)
(0)

  

At,»

    

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

anuary 26 & 27 at 8:00 P
LENFEST CENTER
Tickets & Reservations 463-8000 0 Noon - 4 PM 0 Monday thru Friday

‘ <1»
<1»
<1»
<1»

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993'

EC ponders '

advocate role,’

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee Monday
began the process of reviewing the
Honor System, discussing a list of pos-
sible changes with law school advo-
cates.

In an hour—long meeting, the EC
and four advocates, law school stu-
dents who advise accused students in
honor trials, said many of the issues on
a list sent to the EC by W&L Rector A.

A ‘ Stevens Miles were valid and worth

discussing.
The advocates said they were con-

. cemed about the lack of information

exchanged between the EC and advo-
cates before a closed honor hearing
begins.

Under current White Book proce-
dures, the accused and his advocate are
told the identity of the EC’s witnesses,
but are not allowed to contact any wit-
nesses before the hearing.

Advocate Mark Cathey said an ex-
change of information before the trial
could save the EC the trouble of a trial.

“I’ve done eight trials,” Cathey said.
“I think there were a couple of in-
stances where if you had heard [my
information] you wouldn't have
brought the case to trial.”

Senior EC Rep. Susan Moseley said
she was concerned that an exchange of
information before the accused was
officially charged would become an
attempt to get the case dropped before
it came to trial, instead of an attempt to
find the truth.

Moseley said an accused person

might be able to prepare and rehearse
their responses if they knew the evi-
dence against them. t_

“A lot of [finding out the truth] is 1’
watching how people react,” Moseley
said. .
Third-year law Rep. Jay Sterne said V
he hoped the EC would consider the
issues brought up by the advocates and V
other students, but said the EC should
not create procedural advantages for
either side.

“We have to remember this is no an
adversarial process until it come to
open trial,” Sterne said.

The advocates said EC members
who work on an investigation should
not be allowed to vote in the trial. "

“If you can be a body without bias,
why not strive for it,” advocate Chris
Schinstock said. 9 ‘

EC Presidentlosh MacFarland said ,
he does not want the investigators to '
appear like prosecutors. He said the 4
purpose of a closed hearing is to find
out the truth, not to convict a person of
an honor violation. 

In other action, the EC voted un£ti-
mously to use the term advocate con- -
sistently throughout the White Book.
Before the change, the terms advisor
and advocate were used interchange-
ably.

Schinstock said he would like to see
many people comment on the Hoﬁor
System, including people outside of
the Washington and Lee community, .v

r

‘F

“If we truly believe in our Honor ,

System we should open it up to the
public and let the scrutinize it,”
Schinstock said. “Maybe they will learn
from it.” Q

 

tudent

ctivities

presents

Movie Night

ﬁrm the

Tkoooaooor

sFeatur1'ng

SNEAKERS

Thursday, January 28th 8:00 p.m.

Saturday, January 30th 3:00 p.m. & 6:00 p.m.

“ “ “ “ “ “ " “ “ " “ “ " “ “ 3 3 3
$€$$$‘~?$$$$$'é:éT:?*

(0)
(0)

» SPRING BREAK ’93- . ééééggéeaégeegéaaéaaaa222:2 if *
CASH & GO FREE The (15)

<1»
(1 3)
<1»
<1»
<1v
<1»
<1»
(0)
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
(0)
<1»
<1» ,
<1»
<1»
<1»

oard

(0)

<1» j
(0) '

<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

 

  

(0) ‘

   

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

8 WILSON, from page 1

“In General Lee’ .r College, Ollinger
Crenshaw wrote the history of Wash-
ington and Lee into the 1930s,” W&L
Capital Planning Coordinator Frank

sons said. “I think when the next
historian decides to pick it up, they will

A dumpsterfence isnot one of them.

“Coeducation and Fraternity Re-
naissance are the two things that will
be distinctive about his administration
and will persevere," Parsons said.

Coeducation

Between the time he was chosen to
be W&L’s next president in August

come to the Con- 1982 and the time he took
clusion that office in January 1983,
John Wilson Wilsonmade weeklytrips
was an out- from Blacksburg, where
Standing preSi- he wasprovostatvirginia
tginl.” Polytechnic Institute, to
I P a r s o n s Lexington to get to know
knows W&L the W&L faculty in one-
presidents. He on-one interviews.
graduated in , “I usually ended with

1954 under
F r a n c i s
P e n d l e to n
Gaines and re-
turned to work

the question, ‘What one
thing could we do to make
it a stronger and better
place?’ Coeducation was
overwhelmingly men-

for Gaines three tioned by the faculty as a
months later. jlecision whose time had
He was as- come,”Wilson said. “SoI
sistant to the was very, very curious
esident for about that.”
ed Cole, Wil- Once he became presi-
liam Pusey and dent, Wilson said, he held
R o b e r t dinners for 20-25 seniors
Huntley. Wil- at a time. When he asked
son appointed the question of admitting
Parsons to his women, none of the men
current job of had much to say.

Qpital planning coordinator.

And the man who has worked for a
quarter of the presidents in W&L his-
tory has nothing but praise for Wilson.

“It is a challenging job and a diffi-
cult job, being as how you have so
much to be responsible for and have to
I: so many different things to so many
different people,” Parsons said. “But
he is outstanding at it."

But Wilson is not without his de-
tractors.

“Many assume that I must either
hate Dr, Wilson or, at the very least,
jarbor yenomous distaste for the man.
This is not true,” said former W&L
Spectator editor Cameron Humphries,
whose articles were often critical of
Wilson.

“It must be acknowledged that un-
der Wilson’s presidency Washington
md Lee again enjoys a stature and
reputation unknown for nearly a de-
cade,” Humphries said. “My criticism

_ of the president does not concern what

he has done, but how he has done..it.”

. In the list of changes W&L has

undergone in the past decade, two stick

ut as the ones Wilson is destined to be
remembered for.

“But there was a curious thing hap-
pening. They would say very little [at
dinner] and then see me the next day
and say, ‘Here’s what I really meant to
tell you last night,’ ” Wilson recalled.
“It was like an act of disloyalty to be
critical of the Washington and Lee that
they had enjoyed for four years.”

Once he became convinced that
coeducation was the right thing for
W&L, Wilson asked the Board of Trust-
ees to consider the option.

In July 1984, the board decided to
admit women to W&L, a decision,
former Spectator editor Humphries
says,in which Wilson ignored the poular
will of the alumni.

“Alumni as a whole were ignored
during the coeducation decision,”
Humphries said. “I do not believe the
survey taken of alumni in 1984 —
which found them opposed to coedu-
cation by more than 2-to-1 — was ever
published.”

Wilson remembers the survey.

“That was an interesting question-
naire because many of [the alumni]
thoughtitwasaba1lot.,”Wilson laughs.
“But one of the things we learned was
that 80 percent of the alumni said that

NEWS

Wilson reflects on 10 years in office

if was going to cost the university aca-
demic quality to remain all-male, they
would rather it change.”

Wilson said coeducation is such a
part of life at W&L now he does not
think of it often.

‘‘If you stop to think what human
activity is least aided by the separation
of human beings  it is education,”
Wilson said. “There is no earthly rea-
son for separating men and women
when it comes to the study of literature,
mathematics, philosophy or any other
intellectual activity.”

Rector of the Board of Trustees
Steven Miles recalls Wilson coming in
“as coeducation was being enacted”
and doing a “masterful job of orches-
trating the transition to it.” Miles indi-
cated that co-

week,” Wilson said. “That showed me
a Washington and Lee that was totally
unattractive.”

Parsons said the deplorable state of
the fraternity system ate away at Wil-
son. ,

“He said we could not turn away
from the responsibility he felt we had
to improve the fraternities,” Parsons
said. “And he anguished over how to
do it.”

In 1988, Parsons said, Wilson came
up with the solution.

“He came up with aplan that would
commit the university's resources to
rescuing the fraternity system,” Par-
sons said.

It was a plan, Miles said, that Wil-
son had a hard time selling to the trust-

ees.

education was ‘‘It was controversial,but
something that he felt a statement needed
happened under to be made about the exist-
Wilson, but not ence of fraternities at Wash-
because of him. ington and Lee,” Miles said.
But if coedu- So the university e_m—
cation was an barked on the $12 million
ideawhosetime Renaissance program, un-
had ‘come, Fra- der which the university as-
temity Renais- sumed the titles to the fra-
sance was an temity houses and reno-
idea John Wil- vatedthern atuniversity ex-
son brought pense, with some houses
with him. costing more than $1 mil-
_ lion. The university than
Fratern|tY leased the houses back to
Renais- the fraternities.
n “What happened with
sa Ce FratemityRenaissance was
«When I that it went beyond the sur-
came, Sigma face and gave [fratemity
Nu was boarded  a new attitude,
up' It had been So in the spring of 1991,
ﬁred purposely. h thr f .
Arson in other w eri ee ratemity mem-
words,” Wil- bers threw bottles through
 i.*:,‘=..“;:',:*:,:’i.“:.‘?:*:.f.::*:r'“.::i
l , 'd. . . . ’
gxggui Silas neither the fraternities of the
 ‘.§Li‘lé‘8f..ii‘.?..§L‘;‘i?2IiCi‘v’§li
§2fu3;ead::2da_ son suspended the students.
mm of the fra_ The action brought Wil-
temity systemy son criticism from all sides,
culminating in a forum in
The houses . . .
noton1yhadSe_ Lee Chapel in which Wil-

rious plumbing and electrical prob-
lems and health violations, Wilson said,
but fraternities seemed to bring out the
worst in the W&L “gentleman,” a sen-
timent he shared with the faculty.
“There was a restlessness on the
part of the faculty that an institution
that prided itself on high standards
could turn itself into a different kind of
institution on various nights of the

SPECIAL SKI PROGRAM ANNOUNCED

son tried to explain his deci-
sion, but would not reverse it.

Wilson said that looking back, “I
did what I thought was right. And it
was probably a mistake.”

Wilson says part of the blame lies
with the SCC, which he says was dys-
functional because the Executive Com-
mittee president was considering re-
moving the SCC chairman, who had

just had a
second con-
viction for
driving un-
der the in-
ﬂuence.

B u 1
Miles be-
lieves Wil-
son may
have re-
acted the
way he did
because the
pre s i dent
took the in-
cident per-
sonally.

“He had
stuck his
neck out on Fratemity Renaissance and
got the board to spend $12 million, and
then this happens,” Miles said. “He had
put so much in the program, and it hurt
him.”

In that respect, Miles, who disagreed
with Wilson’s action, says he can for-
give it.

“It should have never gotten to his
office, but it did and I fully understand
why he did it,” Miles said. “If that’ s the
worst thing he’s done, I’ll take it."

Fading into the Sunset

Among the list of things Wilson
sees in W&L’s future — building a
new science center, improving the ath-
letic facilities, creating a better student
center — there is one which he says he
must complete before he can retire:
increasing W&L’ s endowment through
the current capital campaign.

“The capital campaign is very im-
portant to increase our faculty support
and student financial aid,” Wilson said.
“If I can accomplish that, I’ll be very
happy to fade into the sunset.”

“I think when John leaves, which I
hope won’t be soon, but I realistically
think will be in the next four or five
years, he can look back on
a successful career,” Miles
said.

ButHumphries believes
Wilson’s lack of contact
with the students has tar-
nished’ his accomplish-
merits.

“The net effect of
Wilson’s administration
has been to alienate the
presidency from the stu-
dent body," Humphries
said. “In his moments of
more honest introspection,
he knows this to be true.”

 

 

Wilson acknowledges this aspectof
his presidency.

“I realize I'm not a terribly popiilar
president.” He sighs. “And I regret
that.”

Wilson said his hectic travel sched-

ule contributes to the perception that he '

is out of touch with the student body,
but he also contends that he is a shy
person.

“I spend too many hours up here
and not enough out there,” Wilson said
in his Washington Hall office. “But I
am not very good at going to the Co-op
and sitting down with a bunch of stu-
dents at a table uninvited.

“The thing is, I really participate in
the lives of students by watching them
perform in the public arena, like the
sports field, like the gymnasium, or the
theater, or the concert hall.

“I should probably teach. This is the
first place I've never taught,” Wilson
said. “But it’s very difficult to teach
well when your travel schedule is such
that you’ve got to be out of town a fair
arnount....If you're looking for sugges-
tions for my successor, that would be
one.”

When the next president of Wash-
ington and Lee Uni-
versity does take
office,JohnDelane
Wilson will most
likely go down in
history as the man
who revitalized the
university through
coeducation and re-
newed the fratemi-
ties through Re-
naissance.

And what does
he think of that?

“I’ll take the
dumpsters.”

Altiitt - Eriiiiiia

    

 

 

FOR Needed
W & L STUDENTS & FACULTY .
f 102 W. Washington St.
We are pleased to announce the establishment of a special W&L Ski  osalesmgn  S  ' '
Program which is being made available by the Winterplace Ski Resort. Production Assistants Suits & Spomoats . . . _ . _ . _ ‘ . . °26_50% Off
‘ W&L Students and Faculty wishing to takeadvantage of this special ski Humor Columnist ter Outerwear Coats . . . . . . . . 25_% Off
program must present their W&L identification card when purchasing lift Re orters D T C 207 Off
+ tickets, renting ski equipment, or renting a condo. p less op Oats ‘ ' ' ’ ° ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ° ' ' 0
Sweaters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30% Off
$1ﬂ  Call 463-8581 Casual Shirts (Rugby& Chamois) . . . 30-50% Off
_ for details Gloves, Scarves, & T-Necks . . . . . . . . 50% Off
Weekdays (Monday through Friday) other Items Reduced
r Lift Tickets Rental Equipment Mastercard Student Charge 463-5383
(skis, boots, and poles)
9 am to 5 P-m- $14-95 37-95 \ﬁx’\’\’\’\’5.’\’\‘'\’\’\’\’\‘’\’\‘’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\‘’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\‘'\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\$§
9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $17.95 $7.95 \, ,v
~, \
3 Pm‘ ‘° 1° pm‘ $12'95 $595  Try our new winter Sunset Special - 
d S d H rd 5 Buy one sunset entree, get one free! .’r§
Sam’ av‘ ““ ay‘ °‘ ‘W5 Ls? 7'' €———— Our $10.00 Sunset Special includes salad, choice of Q
Lift Tickets Rental E ui mm  W I L L S O N _ three entrees, fresh vegetable, choice of rice or g
(skis, boots, and poles)   A L K E R Potato, Wheat T0113, hgl:I;%)IIt1a('l]C31’E’)l1lfflI1S, and bCV€1'8.g6. 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $27.95 $12.95 x’ _ - 0 - ,\
+ 9 3 m ,0 10 p m $34 95 $12 95 Q? ‘ Reservations Recommended Casual Dress x§
. . . . . . I /\
5 p.m. to 10 p.m. $18.95 $ 7.95 Q; H 0 U S E :4 . $\
W&Ls ’lSk'L ‘t; ”"’‘'“'“''‘l, 1 , It only Look; E answe... gt
 §(E tj R|r|;lsSFt{.é 'Wi[£son-‘Walker 9-{ouse oﬂers exceptional quafity a service in a restored, cfzissicaife, 
\ revised towrtliouse, compfemented ﬁy exceflentfood in a refaxed 6ut elegant atmosp re \
‘ . 1 1/2 hour group lesson by  463'3020 at a price tﬁat you can afford. 
. . . /
::::ri:°g:::T;°;S1';”5‘§'Sh School f°r my $695 Per :3’?x’x’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’x’\’\ \’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’st’\’\’\’\’\’\’x’\’\’\’\’x’\’\’\’\’s’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’§
, Winterplace Condominiums . I
~ . 2 Bedrooms - Parlor, 2 baths, kitchen - sleeps 6 - V
‘ available Sunday night through Thursday night - only $125.00
‘ per night.

i  Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
..,ff;:;:i:::::.‘:;.:::::2::;‘:;:;°;:::.“::,*i*:.::“.:::“::‘::..ii-  All-U-Can Eat $499

' new_1ifts (now 4 chair lifts + 2 surface lifts) and a new dining and food Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99

Sam’ ' Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable

1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95
Saturday Night Prime Rib
Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95

Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.

4 miles North on Route 11
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell

, Winterplace Ski Resort is located 16 miles South of Beckley, West
,\ Virginia, 1 1/2 miles from the Ghent exit on Interstate 77.

LEE—HI

Truck Stop

If you need additional info, or need to confirm lodging reservations,
- call 304/ 787-3221. For latest snow conditions, call snow phone 1-800-
, 258-3 127.

Anticipated conditions on Saturday, January 23rd are - I 7 traiLs open
A , with all chairlifts operating.

 

 

FEATURES

The Ring-tum Phl, January 21, 1993

Author specializes in weddings from hell

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

At a wedding in an old historic Episcopal church, the
organist hit the keys to play the recessional, and the entire
rank of pipes fell off, hitting the groom on the head and
knocking him imconscious. '

This is a favorite anecdote of Margaret Bigger, the author
of There’ s No Such Thing as a Perfect Wedding. Bigger has
collected over 200 true anecdotes in the book, and she is
working on a sequel that will contain almost three times as
many stories.

Bi gger said she heard many of the stories from ministers
when she worked as a committee chairman of a presbytery.

“I would go to lunch breaks at regional meetings and hear
these guys telling hysterical stories,” she said.

Bigger initially wrote the stories for publication in the
Presbyterian Survey,adenominationalmagazirie,afterprom-
ising anonymity to the brides and ministers involved.

She collected stories for several years. “No matter where
I went, I found that if I told a good story I’d get three or four
back,” she said.

Bigger saw the potential for a book, and began breaking
the stories up into categories.

Since the publication of her first humor book, she has
appeared on the Sally Jessy Raphael show, the Vicki
Lawrence show, and the Geraldo Rivera show.

“Apparently I have found a topic that people love to talk
about and laugh about,” she said. She hopes to appear on the
Oprah Winfrey show to talk about horrendous wedding
pranks. She said that so far, West Virginia and Georgia hold
the record for the dirtiest pranks.

Several W&L students are nervous about their upcoming
weddings.

Senior Lee Rorrer has been engaged for about three
months. Her ﬁance graduated from W&L four years ago.

“I foimd out yesterday that my aunt, who is a bridesmaid,
is pregnant,” she said. “She’ll be six months pregnant for the
wedding, and I hope she doesn’t look like a big grape.”

Evans Edwards, also a W&L senior, has been engaged to
his fiancee since last year’s Fancy Dress. They went to high
school together and she went to James Madison University.
Edwards said his greatest wedding fear would be “if my
fiancee didn't show up, or somebody was unruly at the
wedding and turned it into a disaster.”

There’ s No Such Thing as a Perfect Wedding contains no
direct advice, but Bigger said that people read it and learn
whatnot to do. She recommends it to friends of the bride
who want to lighten the mood, and also to brides to give to
their mothers, who she says often take the wedding too
seriously and expect everything to be perfect. She said that
one young man wanted to give his girlfriend the book along
with an engagement ring, to keep the mood light.

Biggerwillbeat W&L onJan. 25-26 to promote her book
and will deliver a speech, “How to Promote Non-Fiction as
a Freelancer,” Jan. 26 at 1 pm.

“What I’ve learned works,” she said. “If you don't
promote [your work], it isn't going to sell. People have to
know it exists and have a reason to buy it.“

Bigger will also be at the University Bookstore Jan. 26
from noon to 2 pm. to sign copies of her book, and to gather
more stories.

“If people at W&L want to tell me about weddings
they've attended where a disaster occurred, or an off-the-
wall-prank was played, or someone said something funny,
I want to hear about those for my sequel or maybe even for
the nextTV show Ido,"Bigger said. “Every timeIthinkI’ve
heard it all, I hear another one.”

 

Illustration by Tim Rickard. There's No Such ﬂing As a Perfect Wedding

Chinese New Year celebrates the Year of the Cook?

By MAi'r Du.uim
Phi Contributing Writer

About one ﬁfth of the world'spopulation willbereveling
in a tremendous New Year celebration starting Saturday, as
this week marks the beginning of the Chinese Year of the
Cock.

“It’s the day for families to come together. It is much like
your Christmas, but without religious meaning,” said Hsiu-
Ying Wu, a Chinese teaching assistant spending her second
year at Washington and Lee University. “It is the biggest

~ festival of the year.”

The Chinese New Year is celebrated during a different
Western week each year, because China’s limar calendar
has a different number of days than the Western calendar.

“Our calendar is based on the moon, but yours is based
on the stm,” Hsiu-Ying Wu said

The festival usually falls in January or February.

One of the most significant
aspects of the New Year Festi-
val is that each year is repre-
sented by a different animal.

The animals represent a

fable of the Chinese old world,
when Buddha called together
all animals to guard and pro-
tect the new year.

Only 12 answered his call,
and each one characterizes ev-
ery 12th year.

 

  

Thecock represents con- Food is an integral part
fidence arid determinism. of the New Year festival.

Because China has pro- ‘,__', Seeds and rice products
gressed intoanemployment- I symbolize the rebirthandthe
based society since the in- N; 1,9  ( new life that the upcoming
ception of New Year festi- COCK—Feb. 17 OX—Feb. 3 197310 9  lg spring will afford. »
vals, some customs have 1969 to Feb, 5 Jan_ 221974-sread- ’}._3_'!g3», . “We have many foods,”
b¢€111110d1ﬁ°d- 1970—Determined, fast, methodical Hsiu-Ying Wu said. “ 'ce

“I11 1116 0111 111110 P001119 pride, alert, confident, abrasive, unimaginative, dependable, loyal, 081168 are 11105! im 1-
51311911 10 P199319 10011 101 aggressive, rude," affectionate, possessive, logical, honest. we 315° “V5 01311838. 31111
1116 New Y681 0116 111011111 111 resolute, punctillious. uriromantic. 1-he)’ 1113311 80°11 111919"
advance,” Hsiu-Ying Wu Hsiu-Ying Wu said par- -

said. “Wecarinot dothatnow

 

N BOAR —Jan. 27 1971 toFeb. 14 1972

 
 

        

       

because the lifestyle is dif- — Unpretentious, jolly, caring, indus- money-filled envelope after
ferent. We cannot close trious,tnisting, naive,hard-—working, E5 ‘\‘l the dimer.
schools and shopsforawhole hospitable.  *~..;4. Once the children mafry,
month.” TIGER * ,*  theystartgivingmoneyback
5li11.111€1'€1S3101°fP1'°P3' Jam 23 ‘§,/,(<9\'$ﬁ," totheparentsonNew Year’s
ration. Men get haircuts; - 1974‘°F°b- m, Eve.
women go to beauty shops_ 26 1971. - RAT — Feb. l5 1972 to Feb. 2 10 1975. — ' . . Children slay up until
wl-he pﬁces are two to Loyal, honest, like- 19_73—Charrnmg, adaptable, cre- Leadership,brave,rash,im- mldnlglll, symbolically
three times more than um, able, trusted, conservative, ativ_e, ambitious, opporturust, gre- V petuous, warm,.smcere, ag- wishing lllell. pawns 3 lohg
mal, but people sllll do it,» sympathetic, tolerant, active ganous, erratic, gossip. gressive, authoritarian. llfe_ ' 0
she said. 1°1‘ab1°- The New Year festivities
Although the Chinese culminate on the ﬁrst full
New Year has become more moon of the lunar calendar.

materialistic as the years go on, the traditions that make the
commemoration significant will never change.

“We’re waiting for spring, a new hope,” Hsiu-Ying Wu
said.

The festival is a time of togetherness, great hope and

  ‘Z718 Sisters of CH1’ Omega

 C ongratufate and '1/I/efcome

Qﬁeir 1993 T[ec{qe Cfass

Sarah Rose Brombacher
Kristen Elmas Cavros
Helen Smith Chandler
Kristina Lou Charney

Marie Fox

Jessica Lee Graft
Jennifer Ellery Greene
Jennifer Dawn Greeley
Caroline Haynes Guerin

Laura Elaine Howell
Kara Michele Kimzey
Mary Lynn Huger King ‘
Robin L. King a
Rebecca Towning Kramer

Kelly

.' 
E. A
=._:::

 .'... .x. . ..-.. v....,'..‘¢’r.. .»...;

3,
7.:
z -I
‘ E
3.:

,4
-»i
3
I
*3
-I

Justine Joy LaMont
Kristen Lynne Lawrence
Kambra Bovard McConnel
Meagan Christine Miller
Jennifer Robison
Suzanne McKay Sharp
Jill Michelle Sheets
Mary Reed Stapleton
1 Shelley Ann Sunderman
Vanessa Dianne Vettier
Madeline Tapley White
Shannon Meta Wiegmann
Katherine Tucker Wood

. ---.. v...-p..«v— ——... -

--~»ac'-‘-‘——-rs--a.«.;..'..s-.».:.’..2....’.';.'.e.4“ .:_"ua'as_..-.._ - .

great dinners for families.

“If someone cannot come [to the New Year’s Eve din-
ner], we set his place and place a cloth over his chair to
represent him,” she said.“A fish is at the table, and it
represents luck, so we must not eat it that night.”

On that night, the streets in the cities of China become 1
dense with people relishing the activities.

While a long, colorful dragon made of bamboo frame
dances through the streets in the armual dragon darte,
firecrackers light up the sky in celebration of the new year.

1993 Tlergge C[a.s5

Sally Ball

Brigitte Barland
Ashley Bell
Stephanie Boden
Aloise Bozell
Meredith Brown
Stephanie Corbin
Chrissy Donnelly
Shannon Foster
Kim Freeman
Jennifer Galardi

Cinnie Lo

0

Chrissie Hart
Samantha Hollomon
Kippie Killebrew
Karen Kwitervich

Lisa Murp y
Julie Ann Olejniczak Meredith Winn
Hilary Rhodes .

Mims Rowe

Jenny Floyster
Julie Sauers

Lisa Smith
Stephanie Tomasso
Courtne Tucker
Peyton urner

an

ents give their children a i

.

1 Gone are the days of freshman bean-

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

Faculty alums recall

By Joyce BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

ies and six-day work weeks.

. qFraternities have noticeably
changed since the years faculty alumni
spent as students.

“The fraternities of today are more
conscious of the number of legal and
behavioral dangers,” University Sec-
retary Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, said.

.However, Professor of Politics

I Lewis John recalls the more restrictive ,

social scene.
“No women were allowed above

, the first floor of fraternity houses,”

John, ’58, said.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy
“lﬁiddy” Atkins, ’68, also remembers
the constraining social atmosphere.

“There were six days of classes so
parties were only on Saturday nights,”

-r

.- Atkins, a member of Sigma Alpha Ep-

silon, said.

Parties were not open as they are

. today-

“Women students didn’t show up
1 without a date,” Atkins said.

is He said parties would begin at 8

 p.m. and end about midnight.

f “Women had to be back on their

respective campus or approved hous-

. in ,” Atkins said.

"John, a member of the now-defunct

:- Delta Upsilon Washington and Lee

chapter, agrees.
‘ “There were always couples at par-

ties rather than a great inﬂux of people,”

John said. ‘‘I went on a lot of blind

» d s.” »
ohn said men’s Rush was shorter
8 when he was a W&L student.
“Rush was finished by the first week

I of classes,” he said.
I Before the construction of Evans

‘ Dining Hall, freshmen depended on

thsir fraternity for meals, John said.
But, in the years when Professor of
' Romance Languages Laurent Boetsch,
» ’69, was a W&L student, the university
as a whole changed dramatically.
“The war, the draft, the Civil Rights
Movement,” Boetsch said, “made it

:1.-‘ almost impossible to not get involved

wﬂh something outside of Lexington.”

     
       
       
   
     
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
     

 

 

frat life

 

selor.

 

LEWIS GEORGE JOHN, ’58 — Delta Upsilon
Secretary and Treasurer, Phi Beta Kappa,
Interfratemity Council President, Phi Eta Sigma
Secretary and President, Student Library Commit-
tee Chairman, Cold Check Committee, Student
Service Society, Band, Glee Club, Scabbard and
Blade, Dorm Counselor and Freshman Camp Coun-

 

A look back at some faculty alumni

FARRIS PIERSON HOTCHKISS, ’58 — Calyx
Editor, The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Advisor, Fancy
Dress Vice President, Finals President, Student
Service Society President, Publications Board, Phi
Eta Sigma, Dorm Counselor, Washington Literary
Society and President’s Advisory Council.

 

LEROY COLE ATKINS II, ’68 - Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Secretary, Mongolian Minks, Student
Service Society, Varsity Club Treasurer, Dorm
Counselor, Football, Lacrosse and SWMSFC.

Boetsch, formerly of Sigma Phi
Epsilon, de-activated after returning
from his junior year abroad.

“Fraternity life didn’t interest me
anymore,” he said. “It [fraternity life]
paled by comparison to real life.”

Boetsch believes that those years of
change were excellent for W&L.

“My senior year, W&L was at its
best as a liberal arts institution,” he
said. “I think because we were more

 The zeta-at. Chapter or  
Kappa Kappa Gamma

Wishes to Congratulate the
Following 1993 Pledges:

Betsy Blunt
Melissa Byrd
Meg Carrere

Amy Carrington

Dominique Chappelear
Caroline Connolly
Catherine Constantino

Dana Cornell
Margaret Cox
Kimberly Davis
Kylie Edwards
Susan Foote
Laura Forster
Kristin Frels
Liza Gallardo
Tara Hadfield
Margaret Hawn
Catherine Hess
Meg Kinder
Ashley Matthews
Sara McGinty
Alison Oneacre
Rebekah Prince

Josephine Schaeffer
Elizabeth Schoellkopf

Ashley Short
Stacy Williams

skeptical.”

John said the percentage of students
in the late 1960s and early 1970s that
were in fraternities dropped from 85-
90 percent to 50 percent.

“There was a general lack of respect
and a do-your-own—thing mentality,”
John said. “However, fraternities are
becoming more like they used to be.”

Hotchkiss, a member of Beta Theta
Pi, agrees.

 
 

 

 

Hellzapoppin' for war relief

50 years ago in the Phi — An all—soldier revue of
dramatic and variety skits in the “Hellzapoppin”
style was presented by student officers of the Army
School for Special Service, with proceeds going to
the United Nations War Relief fund.

“Beginning in 1966, fraternities took
a turn for the worse in terms of behav-
ior and physical deterioration,” he said.

Hotchkiss said the trend turned with
thebeginningofFratemityRenaissance
in 1988.

“In the past two years the fratemi-

5 years ago in the Phi — Delta Tau Delta had a year
of social probation suspended after only five
months. The year of probation was imposed after an
incoming freshman was seriously injured following
a Delt Summer Rush party in July 1987.

ties have reverted back to the state they
were in back then,” he said.

But some traditions are noticeably
absent.

Boetsch said freshmen were no
longer required to wear beanies in 1965 .

“In the years that I was a student, the
tradition of wearing a coat and tie to
class faded,” Boetsch said.

He said his only regret about his

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Food fish
5 Cousin to a vise 4 5
10 Attractive one
14 Numerical prefix
15 Lodge

    

7 19

Greek experience was losing touchwith  Slgiggrliize
those who weren’t in the same frater- 13 Make expiaﬁon
nity, 19 Renown
“If we weren’t in the same frater- §g§ff(§'i:foanF1’acy
nity,wenever saw each other,”Boetsch 24 Eye pm
said. 25 City in India
Atkins recalls the lasting friend- 32 %‘;‘n;EbgA
ships and the good times experienced 32 Sound of
in the fraternity. contentment
He remembers one Saturday night  Serf? ht H
when Ben E. King perfomed atan SAE 36 D'eck"f,5emSe °'
Pan)“ _ 37 Tavern
“Entertainment was much less ex- 38 Family member.
- n ' u or s on
pensive then, he”said. We probably 39 Supermaws
paid only $1,500. L055

Hotchkiss said one of the most
memorable parties was the night Beta

41 Harbor towns

43 Radical group @1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

01/21/93

_ , 44 Goblets‘ All Rights Reserved
reenacted Charles Lindbergh’s ﬂight couectively
over the Atlantic. 46 Troubles 9 Promises La K, _
“We went to enonnous lengths to 48 lncllnatlon 10 Let the air out Of 5‘ wee 3 answers-
49 Ice cream holder 11 Spoken

have big theme parties,” he said.

. . 50 8 all blossom
Hotchkiss said one Beta brother m

53 Shakes from

12 Peru’s capital
13 Certain look

 

actually ﬂewinto Lexingtondressed as fear, 21 Work_ Unit
Lindbergh 57 Dpalal -— 23 Mine 5 output
,, 58 Live up to 25 Open-eyed
. The h0U§€ Was SUPPOSCQ1 [0 b6 so Dies — 26 Old gold coin
Paris,” he said. “Later that night we 61 or the ear 27 Dunne or Castle
had a sort of diplomatic ball.” 52 Rem°‘'°v ‘“ 3 28 5'9"?‘ "gm
. way 29 Publish
John remembers some of his memo— 53 weary 30 Catches
rable college moments in relation to 64 Fountain or 31 Rushof air
one of the four major dances sponsored $6898? 32 guddlﬁs
by the university‘  giohngii wound 43 Hﬁnce
“Backthenwehad Openin s Fanc g ' g
. ”g 1 _ Y 41 Big cat
Dress, Springs and Finals, he said. D.OWN 42 Cleaned
“They were all big formals.” ; glgrftffrg jg ’T‘i‘[‘1’;b“‘e5
-_He Said W&L allfacted blgmame 3 Let it stand! 47 Connecting
artists such as Louis Armstrong and 4 More dirty word _
C B ' 5 Ancient vehicle 49 Made a 52 Leave 55 — avls
Oiim asl-6' ' , 6 Water lily selection unmentioned 56 Prophet
_One d‘ff°"’“°_e between nlday S 7 On the summit 50 Failure 53 Difficulty 59  man —-
parties and the parties back then, John a People 51 Not punctual 54 Writer Ambler mouse?"

said, “is that [today] they’re1ouder.”

   

  congratulations
Pi Beta Phi
Pledges! !

Julie Ayers
Catherine Cardullo
Jenna Cowles
Colleen Dunlevy
Megan Fernstrom
Ainsley Fisher
Beth Formidoni
Heather Hall
Emily Hazlett
Elizabeth Hottle
Catherine Lawrence
Margaret Lunger
Joanna Lyman
Julie Powell
Meg Randol
Kim Schooley
Francis Smith
Anna Starling
Kim Stoner
Katie Tollison
Martha Warthen
Ellen Wasilausky
Courtney Wetzel
Lois Wootton

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

 

 

Happy Birthday, St. Bob!

Photos by Mallory Meyers,‘ The rng- um hr‘

The W&L Dining Service celebrated Founders’ Day Tuesday with a Robert E. Lee birthday dinner
in Evans Dining Hall. The menu included Custis-Lee peanut soup, honey glazed baked ham,
southern fried chicken and Stratford Hall potato salad. Above, dancers perform the Virginia Reel,
a square dance from Lee’s time. At right, Lee’s likeness presides over the festivities. The bust was

sculpted from lard and salt.

Students say
King’s dream
must live on‘

By MICHAEL Hawrrzrr
Phi Contributing Writer

Martin Luther King’s dream must be kepg in.
mind if it is to come true, senior Rita Poindexter
says.

On the holiday commemorating the civil rights
leader's birthday, the Minority Student Associa-
tion president said that, though the racial equality
King advocated has been written into law, the
spirit of King's vision must be kept in mind.‘

“The things that Dr. King stood for and worked
for, such as equality of opportunity, peace and
brotherhood,” Poindexter said, “are elements of
which everyone needs to continually be aware and ,
work toward.”

As for King’s dream, Poindexter said it has 4
three different phases. .

“The first phase of the ‘dream has already been '
accomplished which was the legal recognition of ,
civil rights for minorities,” she said. “The second
phase of the dream is the enforcement of the first
phase through things such as governmental pro-
grams that encourage and reward racial diversity.”

Poindexter said the third phase is “ﬁre 4
individual’s realization of the dream.”

SeniorNicky Mayfreld says the effects of King’s
stand on racial injustice and his willingness to .t
advocate change extended beyond his lifetime.

“I’m a direct recipient of those changes,”
Mayﬁeld said.

Sophomore Ayanna Brady agrees that King’s
influence has been momentous.

“Martin Luther King taught us that it’s neces- ,
sary for black people to unite, to be seen and to be
heard,” Brady said.

Brady says King's accomplishments “alloweid \
us to progress as a people, and I think we should i
acknowledge his efforts.” »

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

11 W. Nelson Street Robby Jones

Lexington, Virginia 24450

  

(703) 463-2022

  
 

ondale - - Dr: B ia
Jansport day packs and book bags

   

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon 463-7969

   



   
 
    

Needed:
A Few Good

Freshman Men

To Help with Admissions Recruiting.
Call Nancy Hickam at the Admissions
Office, 463-8710.

Dance Class for FD
Feb. 3 PUT
7-8 p.m. & 8-9 p.m.
in Fairfax Lounge Your
(Frank Roupus — Helping 
students get ready for FD for
10 years!) H e 

$5 a person. Pay 1 hour, stay 2!

on your ood
looks one.

A rem-93
. :: §pATﬁ’tG-1A c

 
   

    

29z5,‘»;;,m.\.».s7a

  

To earn our College Days rate of $14 for lift tickets and $12” for
rentals, all you have to do is show us your valid college ID. And if you
bring us this ad, you’ll save an additional $2 off the College Days lift
ticket rate. College Days rates apply every Monday and Friday after
12:00 pm. So take advantage of your good looks and join the college

crowd at Massanutten.
Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

io Miles East ofvHarrisonburg. Virginia on Route 313

L<_3opyright 1993, Great Eastern Resorts. WL

__.._._.___.....________..___._______..___________.____I

.l

  

 IWWW

0.ppogo&Qo*'

 

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories
1’.:.'r-..:.*.=:.*..':e.-...... 

 

W&L tudents, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for
your next haircut. We have experrenced Barbers.

Ideal Barbershop

22 S. Main St., Lexinton - Below FirstAmerican Bank

 

  

a

Valley 7/Zara"?/* due
_ 9

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

 

A CRAFTS PLUS. INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5
31 S.Main St., Lexington 463-3355

UNHVERSHTY
SPQRTWEAR

15 VV. VVASHINGTCDN ST
LEXINCSTCN, VA 24450
703 464-3000

      

<0: Read the Phi_.

TGIF .

OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount o
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive
merchandise from America ’s most famous mail

order houses. New shipments Every Week!

Ir1— Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men ’s and Women ’s Wear. 0

There are reductions from 25 — 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00. .
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 ’
703-463-9730

Now Carrying Merrell Hiking Boots

SUMMER STUDY ABROAD

\\//

$70 er mi‘

an GVGI‘

Imagine the possibilities

Internships, Language Programs & Study Tours

Singapore 0 London 0 Paris 0 Florence
Madrid 0 Hong Kong 0 Russia 0 Greece
Strasbourg 0 Germany 0 Geneva
Eastern Europe

Syracuse University
Division of International Programs Abroad
119 Euclid Avenue
Syracuse, NY 13244-4170
(315) 443-9420/9421

  

.. #

RSTOCKED!
BIG MEN’S SALE

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

    

Id

- Winter Suits - 1/2 Price

- Sweaters - 25% Off

- All Casual Slacks - 20% Off

- All Ties / Dress Shirts - 20% Off
- Chamois / Sport Shirts - 25% Off 7

College Town Shop
111 W. Nelson St.

 

  

   
 
   
  

$ &~l» G

- Sport Coats - 25%-50% Off " ‘

itxecc

   
  
 

c 9
The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

 Hams
MEANS LOW PRICES

 
Be er W&L inconsistent in

celosses

   

  

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS «. _ _ 

  

  

.-2
‘ea "‘

 RMS

     

0-50 OUNT

  
  
 
 

TYSON-
WHOLE ERYERS MEDIUM SHRIMP
.‘ LMITSWITH
~ ADDITIONAL

PURCHASE

‘(

  

.399

    

2 sum 10* SALE

P -{G ‘I ’_‘ -7.!

   

\ U

  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
    

       
  
    
   
 

0 KIWI FRUIT 0 TURNIP ROOT
0 TEMPLE ORANGES 0 SMALL LEMONS

0 BAKING POTATOES(BULK) 0 YELLOW ONIONS(MED. SIZE)
6 DANCY TANGERINES 0 DONUTS OR FRITTERS

0 FRESH GARLIC (BULK) 0 FRESH CUT CARNATIONS

I C}.

0 /

   

VALUABLE COUPON

10‘ EACH

Q‘; ' I 1 in II! V W
6Pi1lsh 1 (WW
6Pillshury

‘ WITH
, coupon

‘i’s‘i?.'$’.”i’ I I

_, Brgﬁarnrjlk

"" . ...£‘£?;'F.i£".. I I
4.5 oz PILLSBURY

Bl|1"l'ERMII.K BISCUITS I I 8-5 01-
This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Cou Per Purchase With A $10.00 M u  N 

M‘”I’"“’“ P”’°L‘°59- 0”” G°°d ‘I°"”°'72 I LL“ J°“”°‘7 “I993 I This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. limit One Cou n Per Purchase With A 5I0.00

Minimum Purchase. Olier Good January 2 , ihru January 26,1993
COUPON VALUE GROCERY
I M llamsfeetet ,,,3“;'i,Y,,,,  °°”*’°ﬂ$V"“" llamsreeter p|_u mo 
' j j 1 —— 1 3 T Z 1 1

VALUABLE COUPO

VALUABLE COUPON

       
 
 

 
 
 
   

 

   

r

     
  

   
    
   

 

 
 

   

5 oifiicrswrirlrxpnrss
WHOLE KERNEI. CORN

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. limit One Cou n Per Purchase With A $10.00

 

3 OZ. ARMOUR
PO'I"l'ED MEAT

This Coupon  Not Be Reproduced. limit One CC;&.')0n Per Purchase With A $10.00
Mimmum Purchase’ OLLEL Good January ”L"u January 26’]993 Minimum Purchase. Oiier Good January? , lhru January 26,1993

LC9U.PO£ VALUE PGLii’o§§%\; EJ COUPO;tg—c VALUE P$O2Z§Bl3
I Prices Effective Through January 26, I993

P ‘ Th‘ Ad EH 1' W d J 20 Th h d , January 26 1993. In Lexington Stores
0 "C5Sni;.wi§ Reservgcl vee Rig tqifns Lianiil align ilies. Ngiiegsoidelso (llfeaiers. We Giadiy Accept tederal rood blamps.

   
 

     
  
    

conferen

D STRUGGLE, from page 10

Division III play and the Generals have
played them tough twice, but they've
lost twice. The latest coming in Emory,
79-68.

The Generals jumpedout to anearly
lead and had the home team on their
collective heels.

But you don’t get into the top ten by
rolling over, and the Wasps didn't.

They trailed by eleven a few min-
utes before the half. They clawed their
way back to knot the game at 33 just
before the end of the first.

E&H then jumped all over the Gen-
erals a few minutes into the second. A
10-nothing run put the Wasps up for
good, 45-35. After that they coasted to
the 11-point victory.

Mi ggins led the Generals again with
13 points.

The loss dropped W&L to 4-10, 2-
7 in the ODAC. Prior to the E&H
game, the Generals resided in seventh
place in the ODAC, the top eight teams
make the post-season tournament.

That's why the home stretch for the
Generals is so important, eight of their
ﬁnal 10 games are against ODAC foes,
five are on the road.

The toughest part will come at the
very end of the season. Just before the
ODAC Tournament is scheduled to
start quarterﬁnal play, the Generals
must go on the road for ﬁve straight
games.

They begin their trek at Lynchburg
on Feb. 10, three days later they’re at
Roaonke, then at Queen’s (NC) on
Feb. 15. The Generals conclude the
1992-93 regular season at Eastern
Mennonite on Feb. 17 and at Randolph-
Macon on Feb. 20.

It’s very reminiscent of last year
when the Generals needed wins at the

end of the season to make the touma-
ment. This year could have the same
situations.

The Generals willprobablybeﬁght-
ing for a spot with teams such as East-
ern Mennonite and Randolph-Macon,
so those road games could be the most
important part of the season.

Wrestling

By MARK SAPPENFIBLD -- 1
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team left last weekend’s Johns Hopkins
Invitational with a 1-2 record and a
hollow feeling abouttheirperformance.

The win over Haverford, 34-16, and
the loss to Lebanon Valley, 38-6, were
both convincing. But the loss to Johns
Hopkins, 30-19, revealed the still-vul-
nerable top end of the Generals’ lad-
der.

Head coach Gary Franke said the
team was in a position to win the meet
against Johns Hopkins, but they could
notcome up with the wins atthe heavier
weight classes.

“All we needed was one good show-
ing from 167 to heavyweight, and we
would have been in a position to win
the match;” Franke said, “but they swept
us, and we didn’t have a big enough
lead to hold on”.

The Generals got off to a quick start
against Hopkins. Freshmen Rob Sands,

 

 

 

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

Miggins finishes off a W&L fastbreak against the Yellow Jackets.
Miggins has provided most ofthe offensive punch forthe Generals
this season. It will take a concerted team effort by the Generals to
turn this season around In time for the ODAC Tournament.

hosts Invitational

cim Futch and Owen Smith all wonat 

their respective weight classes.

Sophomores Eric Shirley and Adam
Williams also contributed with wins in
their matches. It was at the 167-pound
weight class where the tide began to
turn.

Sophomore Lea Abercrombie lost
at 167,and then fellow classmate Kevin
Batteh lost his match at 177-pounds.
From there, junior Matt McCollum lost
at 190-pounds, and the Generals were
forced to forfeit the heavyweight divi-
sion, giving Hopkins its 30-19 win.

W&L had to give up 24 points to
Hopkins during the ﬁnal four matches.

The Generals did rebound for the
end the day meet against Haverford.

Franke took the liberty of changing
the W&L line-up throughout the
Haverford match. He moved Batteh
down to the 167-pound weight class,
and Abercrombie to 177. Sophomore
Bo King saw his first action this year at
190-pounds, and he beat his Haverford
opponent in a great match for the Gen-

erals. McCollum had to take a forfeit at
the‘ heavyweight class.

Sands, Shirley, and Futch contin-
ued their domination in the middle
weight classes with wins at 126, 134,
and 150-pounds, respectively. Shirley
finished the tournament at 3-0, and
upped his season mark to 6-5.

Abercrombie won his match at 177-
pounds to finish 1-2 on the day.

The Generals get the week to prac-
tioe before they host their annual W&L
Wrestling Tournament this Saturday.

The Generals must prepare for
Davidson, LaSa1le, Longwood, Mes-
siah, Newport News Apprentice, Vir-
ginia Military Institute and Washing-
ton and Jefferson.

The Generals will have a new body
to throw into the mix this weekend.
Freshman Colin Looney will see his
first action, probably at 190-pounds.

The Generals have already faced
two of the teams competing in ‘the
Invitational. W&L lost to Newport
News 52-6 and beat Davidson 33-18.

COUNSELORS: Camp Wayne, co-ed chi1dren’s camp,

Northeastern Pennsylvania. June 22 - August 20, 1993.
Positions include: Tennis, Golf, Swim (W.S.I. preferred), Waterski, Sailing,
Basketball, Volleyball, Softball, Soccer, Gymnastics, Aerobics, Drama,

Nature/Carnping, Guitar, Batik, Dance/Cheerleading, Sculpture, Ceramics,
Painting, Silkscrecn, Photography, Self-Defense. Other positions available.

On campus interviews Thursday, February 4, 1993.

For more Information, call 516-889-3217 or write 12 Allevard St.,
Lido Beach, NY 11561. Include your school phone number.

s‘? W51»

'7 :9»
° 
\l
/of PE0?\5'Q

       
           
  
   

   
    
  
  
  

Students Agginst Multiple §9_le;o_s_i§
&_£_L?_£1Q2R0 k ri A_r2g._e_e_R Ii f 

Lip Sync
Friday, Jan. 22
at 8 p.m.

$4 per person
SI tickets for door prize drawings

One door prize is d Willson-Walker dinner
17 Acts As of Wednesday

   
   
    
  
   
     
   

 

  

 
   

This Week: .
Bba1l- B’water 1/22 7:30;at H-SC 1/27
Swim- Johns Hopkins, Emory,
Swarthmore (M&W) 1/23 All Day
Wrestle— W&L Invit. 1/23 9:30 am

Last Week:

Bba11— E&H 79,W&L 68 (4-10)
MSwim- W&L 111,G’town 94 (6-0)
WSwim- G’town 112,W&L 88 (6-1)
Wrestle— W&L 34,Haverford 16 (2-3)

(lite Eating-tum iﬂlﬁ

SPORTS

 

PAGE 10

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

Men’s swimming remains I
perfect;women lose first

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

After convincing victo-
ries in each of their ﬁrst six
meets, the Washington and
Lee men’s swimming team
is more than halfway to a
perfect season.

Saturday, the Generals
traveled to Washington,
DC. for apre-inaugural vic-
tory over President Bil-l
Clinton’s alma mater, the
Georgetown Hoyas.

Six Generals combined
to temper the Hoyas’ smug-
ness of having the 42nd
President of the United
States. W&L won seven
events in the meet to pro-
duce a 111-94 conquest.

Saturday’s win came just
two days after the Generals
romped all over visiting
Buffalo State, 125-80. W&L
lost only one of the 1 1 events
during the meet. That single

loss was in the 200 medley-
relay.

Sophomore John Rowe
was a double winner against
Buffalo State. He claimed
the top spots in the 100-
breaststroke and the 400-in-
dividual relay. Rowe’s time
in both events were season-
best times, 1:04.64 for the
100-breast and 4:26.47 for
the 400—IM.

The only other double
winner for W&L against
Buffalo State was freshman
Frank Braden. Braden with
season-best times 'in the
l,000—freestyle, 10:17.22,
and the 100-butterﬂy, 56.75.

The two wins improved
the men’s record to 6-0 on
the season, 3-0 since the
team returned from the holi-
day break.

The W&L women’s team
also kept their perfect sea-
son intact with their win
againstanovermatched Buf-
falo State team, 118-74.

FI’OIT| Press Releases

Indoor track kicked off
its 1993 season at the
Lynchburg Invitational last
weekend.

The men were led by their
group of sprinters.

Hayne Hodges, John
Robinson and Chris Kane
all reached the semifinals of
the 55-meter dash.

    

Hodges and Robinson
teamed with David Phillips
and Dax Mahoney to win
the 4x100 relay race.

Mahoney also took sec-
ond in the 440-yard dash,
while Grant Cowell was sec-
ond in the 6()0—yard run.

The women were paced
by sophomore standout
Sarah Gilbert in all the jump-
ing events.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

However, the women
would receive their first
blemish against a much
larger Georgetown team.

The Hoyas outnumbered
the Generals by a 3-to-1
margin and won only five of
the meet’s eleven races. But
it was enough to end the
Generals unbeaten streak,
112-88.

Freshman standout,
Rebekah Prince, said it was
simply a matter of numbers.

“We’ve been outnum-
bered all year long,” Prince
said. “It’s just hard to keep
winning with just eight
swimmers.

“We all swam well, but
we were just outnumbered,”
Prince added. “We’ve all
handled it well.”

Prince continued her phe-
nomenal freshman season by
claiming first in three races
against the Hoyas. She
touched the wall first in the
200—butterfiy, the 200-back-

 

stroke and the 200—breast-
stroke.

Prince made W&L his-
tory during the Georgetown
race with a school record in
the 200-backstroke with a
time of 2:13.83.

Sophomore Brandi
Henderson had another
strong performance with
wins in the 200 and 500-
freestyles, and L1 second-
place finish in the 100-
freestyle.

Senior Claire Dudley
showed she was not washed
up in her ﬁnal season as she
contributed a win in the
1,0()0-freestyle and seconds
in the 50 and 200-freestyles.

The teams have a bit of a
lay—off and then return to
action this Saturday in an
all-day event at W&L’s Cy
Twombly Pool. The Gener-
als welcomeJohns Hopkins,
Emory and Swarthmore to
Warner Center for the four-
way competition.

The men and women will
send full teams to the
Marriott Invitational at Vir-
ginia Tech this weekend.

After that, the men will
compete in the VMI Relays
and the women will head

back to Virginia Tech for the '

Pepsi Invitational.

The two teams will not
compete together until W&L
serves as the host school for

the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference indoor champi-
onships on Feb. 27.

The women’s trial bas-
ketball team went 2-1 in its
first three games since the
holiday break.

The team beat Sweet
Briar 55-34, they lost to
Meredith 71-41 and beat
Mary Baldwin 77-43.

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The R/ng-tum Phi

‘Super’ Human

Former Pittsburgh Steelers’ great Rocky Bleier spoke to a crowd in Lee Chapel Wednesday night
about his experiences in Vietnam and professional football. Bleier received a serious leg injury in
Vietnam after a grenade exploded three feet from him. He rehabilitated the leg and went on to play
on all four Steeler teams that won the Super Bowl. He told the audience that the will and belief that
something can be accomplished is the key to all success.

 

   

 
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   

JANUARY 21,19

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

upped his impressive shooting percent to 68.4 percent.

enerals stumble in
two ODAC losses

By SEAN O’RouRi<E
Phi Sports Editor

Head basketball coach Verne
Canﬁeld is in his 29th season with
Washington and Lee. He has seen it all:
good times, bad times, euphoric times
and frustrating times.

The 1992-93 season has produced
some very bad and frustrating times for
Canﬁeld and his players.

It was only last year that the Gener-
als suffered through one of their worst
seasons under Canfieid’s guidance.

This year seems to be even more
frustrating for Canﬁeld because he be-
lieves he has t_he team to compete with
any team in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference.

“We can play with any team in this
league when we come to play all-out,”
Canﬁeld said after the Generals fell to
Randolph-Macon last Saturday.

The game against the Yellow Jack-
ets was probably the lowest point in the
Generals’ season. The team came out
lethargic and uninspired and it showed
in a number of different categories.

First off , let me give you the score of
the game because last week I mistak-
enly left the score off one of my game
summaries.

The Generals lost to Randolph-
Macon 78-61.

Early on it appeared the Generals
were a tired team. It was their ﬁfth
game in l 1 days and was being held at
three in the afternoon. The combina-
tion of the two produced poor results.

Those poor results were reﬁected in
one key statistic, shooting percentage.

For the season, the Generals were
shooting 44 percent from the floor, 37
percent from 3-point land. Their oppo-
nents were averaging 49 percent from
the field and 37 percent from outside
the 3-point are.

On Saturday, the Generals had their
worst shooting day, while the Yellow

Jackets could have sunk a 3-pointer
from Botetourt County.

In the first half the Generals shot a
miserable 31 percent, 9-for-29, and
compounded the problem with a 1-for-
5 effort from 3-point range. .

What made the half even more mis-
erable was W&L’s ineffectiveness un-
der the offensive glass.

The Generals could only musterﬁve
offensive rebounds, while Randolph-
Macon controled the defensive glave
by grabbing 14 defensive boards.

Canﬁeld said the players were not
going after the basketball.

“The ball would go up and we
weren’t moving our feet. We just stood
around and you can’t grab rebounds
without moving your feet,” Canfield
said.

The first 20 minutes were tough to
swallow considering the Generals had
brokenaseven-gamelosing streak only
a few nights before against Lynchburg.

The 19-point deficit atthe half could
have been much worse. Most of
Randolph-Macon’s shots hit NBC
(Nothing But Cotton).

They shot the lights out of the
Wamer Center, draining 60 percent of
their shots, going 16-for-27.Tlieyadded
a 4-for-9 performance from 3-point
land.

So now that you know the defense
and offense suffered a miserable 20
minutes, ponder one more stat.

Junior forward Robert Miggins was
the only General to have more than one
basketball in the first half. He went an
astounding 5-for-5 with two rebounds.

Despite his excellent performance
in the first half, Mi ggins never touched
the ball in the second, finishing the
game with his original ten points.

The perfect effort against the Yel-
low Jackets upped Miggins’ shooting
percentage to a stratospheric 68.4 per-
cent.This puts him second in theODAC
for shooting percent, son of.

Miggins doesn't have enough shot

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, 7719 Hing-ium.Ph/'

W&L’s Robert Miglns goes up over Randolph-Macon’s Mark Stewart during the first half of the ga
last Saturday. Of course Migginsmade the short jumper because he went 5-for-5 forthe game, whi -

  
 
  
  
      
   

u

  
   

attempts to qualify him for the hon

“We looked very bad,” said a di
heartened Canfield after the come’
“We were unmotivated and just did
play very well.”

The Generals picked up the pace 1
the second frame, in fact they outgzor
the Yellow Jackets 38-36. But the ho
was too deep to climb out Of,

The Generals shot 48 percent in .
second, but again struggled from dee
going 2-for-7 from 3-point range.

The rebounding on the offensi
end improved, as W&L snaggeddsev
offensive boards during the ﬁnal
minutes.

Still, the defense had its proble
The Yellow Jackets sank 55 percent
their shots and ﬁnished the game
57.4 percent from the ﬁeld.

It was not one of the better g e
Generals have played. W&L en ed ‘
losing by 17, but it wasn't that clo
The game against Roanoke two wee
ago was closer and W&L still lost- a.
17.

“We didn’t do much right tonigh
Canﬁeld said. “Offensively and defe 1
sively, we didn’t do much right?” t

Miggins led the Generals with 1
Senior Bryan Watkins finished wi'
nine as did classmate Bryan Bradin
Freshman Cam Dyer closed out th
Generals’ top scorers list with eight.

Canﬁeld said it was up to the tel
to decide if they really want to {Ray _
not. ' ~~

‘‘I’m running out of answers .,
Canﬁeld said. “Somehow, the yo ’
men have to ﬁnd a very good reason «
play this game.”

The players must have found soni
of the desire they need to reallyuo x.
pete because the team went to Emor
& Henry last night and gave the Was -
a good scare. ' *

E&H is ranked in the top ten i

I

    
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
    
   
    
   
  
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
     
  
  
     
    
  
   
   

    

Ci See STRUGGLE, pa
.0

 

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 

    
   

 
   

' I
. . é ' .
Do You Want VISA 8: MasterCard Credit Cards? , STUDENT SERVlCES.BOX 1792lI.PLAliTAIION.FL 33318 ' audi nits
Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  l want “SAG/MAS.-FERCARDQ Cred" : Aupig . v|DEO . c/in srigpeo
accepted credit cards in the world...Visa® and MasterCard@ 3 Q _ I - }
credit cards.."ln your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I cards, Enclosed nnd s 5 which is 100% refundable if not I DENON SONY _ .

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . appmved mm,ed,a,e,y_ u ¢g;<'>|rA citilglfwz i

VlSA® and MastcrCard© the credit cards you I I KEF Cw.) 

deserve and need ior— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT | I BOSTON oepiuirive ‘
NAME
S’I‘ORES—1'UlTlON—EN'l_‘ERTAlNMENT— . | t(|_|pscH BAZOOKA _
EMERGENCY (%SH-—TICKE'I'S—RESTAURAN'l'S- ADDRESS
| I - SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM
HO,TELS—-MOTELS—(Y\S-CAR RENTALS--- - guygp pgo-rgcnon PLAN
REPAlRS—-AND TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY STATE _ ZIP | : cm .Nsmw.o~ oemmsm .
- I 
° IC
‘KWTREM '   I 0 Ih,AI,iSS1§ER CARD/VISA/DISCOVER
p _ .

cu ‘S“-“cg: :0 credlfitt d _ '» : SIGNATURE : (393) 463-5667 -,

ml go 5 0 SEC“? Y EDOSIL Non: Masiacimi is n mgmemd tndennrk or Masiuomi lntemtllioml. Int: d j
“:(,..II!':::¢1 03°‘ - . I Visa Is a registered tndeirnlk oI’VlSA us». Inc. mi VISA imemauomi I °‘g::'ﬂ::8§;“’T';f;  ‘ .

$ ‘ Appmml absolutely guaranteed so ' saw“; MarI‘I°n'   ' 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke .
I _ __ _ _ _ I
Q—:Q—QQc QQ9—Q CC ——C— -

    

