V THE umvensrrv LIBRARY
WASHINGTON s LEE UNIVERSITY
Li§>§j§tGTOi~l, VA 24450

i7lKii‘1‘9 199% I

 

YEE HAW!

Dance Club Gives
Students A Chance
To Scoot Their Boots

Blizzard Blues 2*:

Weekend snowfﬁl
disrupts spring schedule

sis

i>I<=

as
6

sis ?>1<=

U112 iftin -tum {ﬂirt

VOLUME 92, NO. 22

fiumpshakers
miss chance
at stardom

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

By MOLLY AFTER
Q Phi Staff Writer

Two free nights at a D

$300 in spending money and the chance to be on

national television. Sounds too good to be true.
For the Rumpshakers, winners of the Washing-

ton and Lee Rock-a-Like Lip Sync contest in

January, it was.

After being asked to come to Florida to perform
their act on MTV, the six students could not find a
ride and had to forgo their 15 minutes of fame.

Group member Maurice Cole, a junior, said a
representative from MTV called him March 5 and
as ed if the group could get to Daytona March 12.

~ Cole, senior Robyn Gabriel, junior Nikki
Mayfield, and freshmen Jack Thorn, Colleen
Thompson and Kyna Bryant, the members of the

group, were ecstatic.

But a lack of transportation kept the
Rumpshakers out of the spotlight. Plane tickets
were too expensive, and Cole said the group could

n& find a company that
one under 25.

Dean of Students David Howison tried to get
the group a university-owned van for the trip, Cole
said. But on Tuesday he told Cole that the van
could not make it to Florida.

Cole scrambled to find an alternative, but said
h¢!)egan to realize the trip’s effects on his classes.

“My academic work wasn ’t getting done,” Cole
said. “I talked with the group and let them know
that I didn’t want to go.”

The group had to call MTV and cancel the

appearance.

The contest will begin airing tonight on MTV.

W&L

on sexual assault issues

aytona Beach, Fla., hotel,

would rent cars to some-

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

Supersnow

Sophomore Hugh Robinson cavorts in the snow with a couple of canine compan-
ions. Last weekend's storm delivered 17 inches of snow ‘and 32 mph winds to __
Lexington. ' ‘ ‘  ‘ " ’  ’ ’ ’ ‘ ‘

students speak out

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 18, 1993

43 students vie
for class offices

Constitutional revisions go to vote

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The student body will have to wade
through 43 candidates for class officers
and Executive Committee representatives
and a constitutional referendum Monday.

The constitutional revisions were pro-
posed by The Ring-tum Phi Executive
Editors Cathryn Lopiccolo and Richard
Peltz in an effort to bring the constitution
up to date with current student govem-
ment practices. The EC voted to send the
amendments to a referendum.

“Right now the student government is
essentially functioning without a consti-
tution,” Peltz said. “That leaves the EC
unaccountable to its constituency. ”

EC President Josh MacFarland said he
supports the amendments and hopes
enough students vote to pass them.

“[The amendments] will clean up the
process," MacFarland said. “There are a
lot of things [in the amendments] we al-
ready do, but aren’t in the constitution.”

For the amendments to pass, half of the
student body must vote in the referendum,
and two-thirds of the voters must approve.

Students will have the opportunity to
vote yes for all the amendments by mark-
ing a single box, or to vote foreach amend-
ment separately. Seniors may vote in the
constitutional referendum. K ,__

MacFarland and John Refo, Voting
Regulations Board chairman, said the num-

    

Photo by Amy Fren

Events celebrate FOI

_ The F! g-m Ph

ber of candidates for the class elections is
tremendous.

Forty-three rising seniors, juniors and
sophomores are running for 13 positions.

MacFarland said he is encouraged by
the large turnout of candidates, especially
women. He said increased advertising
helped get more people interested.

Rising seniors running for class presi-
dent are Bill Chappell, Tom Hespos, Carlin
Jones and Ashley Scott. Running for vice
president are Michelle Hobbs and Kevin
Roddey. Running for senior EC represen-
tative are Kenney Bullock, John Hassig,
Allison Lewis, Joe Ramseur, Kendall
Sibley and Aspen Yawars. ,

Rising juniors running for senior class
presidentare Whitney Bludworth, Lawson
Brice, Alan Schoellkopf and Sarah Tune.
Running for vice president are Carol
Amason, Sarah Aschenbach, Michael
Brooks and Drew Denbo. Running for
junior EC representative are Ryan Boone,
Alex Cross, Joe Frampton, Shelby Kerr,
Bryan King, Lloyd Peeples, Carol Pierce
and Robert Stewart.

Running for rising sophomore class
president are Melissa Byrd, Graham Frey,
Ransom James, Preston Miller, Robert
Turner and Ben Vanderver. Madeline
White is running for vice president. Run-
ning for sophomore EC representative are
Joseph Brookshire, Justin Dardani, Ma-
son New, Clay Richards, Robert Ross,
Frank Sparrow, David Stewart and Ellen
Wasilausky.

VV&L
buys
ElRodeo

By ToM HI-ISPOS
Phi Staff Writer

In a deal finalized Wednes-
day, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity became the owner of one
defunct Mexican restaurant.

University Treasurer
Lawrence W. Broomall said
W&L purchased El Rodeo on
North Main Street to provide
more office space for the univer-
sity. If all goes according to
plan, Broomall said, the new
building will be renovated and

  

 

week is impacting the community
where it should. _

“I just feel that if you’re going to
have a Sexual Assault Awareness
W!ek, you should focus on the frater-
nities, because it seems to me that most

, of the sexual assaults happen around

the fraternity parties,” she said. “I’m
not blaming the fraternities for this, but
I think people need to be more careful

sexual assault.

“I think many people aren’t aware
of what constitutes assault,” junior
Damani Bryant said.

Sophomore Kandice Durden says
she sees the root of most sexual as-
saults in the consumption of alcohol.

“The people around here drink too
much, and when they do, they get very
defenseless and senseless,” she said.

Freshman Frances Smith sees the

Dean of Students Office and
Rockbridge Area Coalition Against
Sexual Assault are sponsoring Sexual
Assault Awareness Week.

At displays around campus students
have tied ribbons for people they know
who have been sexually assaulted and
written comments on quote boards.

Ron Campbell, a human sexuality
educator at George Mason University,
will speak tonight at 8 p.m. in the

By MICHAEL HEWLETT . . men about sexual
ma satrwma “I tied a ribbon because . . . “”f3‘,‘,“',,,,,,,,, ,,,a,
I tied a ribbon for my mother who was sexually ‘here i5_10° high 3
urins - W&L’s molested by her grandfather. perception that a
S ual Assault Aware— womanisfair game
11658 WK‘-Ck» S€V€f31 5111' I tied a ribbon because I was sexually assaulted by if She's drunk: 0’
dents haV€ Teacled P0Sl‘ one of my best friends freshman year. Ib)’l the W3)’ 5h€’5
tivelyto the university’s dressed or acting,”
activities and havetaken I tied a ribbon because I thought sexual assault was Smith Said-
lhe lime 10 C0nSldeT the overexaggerated until my best friend was raped. Freshman Frahk
problem of sexual as- Sparrow Said
. Saak 1 tie three ribbons  one for my friend who was 5eXUa1aS5311hi5‘°° _ _ _
“I  SCXLIHI AS‘ rap¢d. one for Iny  who was  assaulted’ C0mpICXaHlSSU(.5 I0  Swagler, ’84,  In Lee   night.
Sallll Awareness Week and one for my ex-boyfriend who was molested as a P1309 blame 33511)’-
is a very productive tool chug, “No matter
that provides necessary What. people are re-
informalion 10' the (Quotes from quote board in the University Center.) 5P0nSibl¢ f0T Whal
school,” junior Maurice they do,” Sparrow
Caseostflligmore Jennifer Salgllhe Health Edu- By RICHARD WEAVER
Yanulavich questioned whether the problem is that people don’t report Calioﬂ C0fI1miiI€€. W0m€1'1’S Fofllm, PM Reader Relamns Coordmamr

In the United States today, “reporters
are going to jail for printing the truth,”
said Rick Swagler, ’84, in a speech in Lee
Chapel Monday.

Swagler is a staff attorney for the Re-
porters Committee for Freedom of the
Press in Washington, D.C. The Ring-tum
Phi and Society of Professional Joumal-
ists sponsored his visit in commemora-
tion of Freedom of Information Day.

the Reporters Committee of 1,010 U.S.
newspapers and television stations in
which 3,281 subpoenas were served, call-
ing on journalists to reveal confidential
sources for criminal investigations. ’

Earlier Monday, the Phi held a cer-
emony dedicating the tree outside Reid
Hall to the late Professor of Journalism
Clark R. Mollenhoff.

Phi Executive Editor Cathryn
Lopiccolo directed the dedication.

“It was a beautiful ceremony,”
Lopiccolo said. “I think it brought back
fond memories of Professor Mollenhoff

when they go out.”

oBut some students say the greater

problem as a misconception among

  

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

Kiss Me, I’m Irish

OT his smiling leprachaun greets Spanky's customers
on their way to celebrate St. Patrick's Day.

 

Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.

Swagler cited a survey conducted by

for everyone who knew him.”

Fad puts new products in the eleatr

From the Associated Press

It’s hip to be clear. Or is it hype?

Well-known marketers in categories from
soft drinks to dish-washing liquids, mouth-
washes and deodorants are scrambling to get
clear spin—off s from distinctively-tinted old
standbys on supermarket shelves.

There is Crystal Pepsi and Tab Clear. The
Palmolive and Ivory names now appear on
clear dish-washing liquids. Lavoris now
markets a colorless mouthwash, and Ban has
a clear solid deodorant. Even gasoline is
going clear.

The clear movement spread this month to
the beer business, where consumers have
long taken a brew’s measure on acolor scale
ranging from yellow to black.

Miller Brewing Co. plans to introduce the
industry’s first clear beer, Miller Clear, in
several markets later this month.

Marketers say they chose clear over an-
other color because transparency provides a
real benefit or helps call attention to other

changes that distin- -;~~
guish the clear prod-
uct from the original.
Makers of clear
deodorants, for ex-
ample, say theirprod—
ucts leave no white
residue on clothes like
traditional sticks do.
New Product ~
News, a monthly,
Chicago—based publi-

  

cation that chronicles
productintroductions,
spotted about48 clear products among 16,790
new food, personal care or household prod-
ucts in 1992.

Pepsi—Cola Co. said Crystal Pepsi was
created in response to research that indicates
some people wanted a cola with natural lla-
voring, no preservatives and less sweetness.

Pepsi thinks regular and diet Crystal Pepsi
can capture $1 billion in retail sales this year,
about 2 percent of the market.

In response to the new Pepsi drink, Coca-
Cola Co. is testing TabClear, aversion of one

 Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fiin_cj—ttim Phi

of its diet ‘colas.

Jane Fitzgibbon, who follows consumer
trends for the advertising agency Ogilvy &
Mather, said she suspects a fad element in the
rising use ofclear marketing, but that “clear”
can be a potent selling tool.

“We want clear air, clear water. It means
trouble-free and blemish—free,” she said. “It
makes people more comfortable in using
these products.”

Staff Writer Tom Ilexpos contributed to
this story.

 

will house the University Print
Center.

Broomall would not disclose
how much the deal cost the uni-
versity, but he said the renova-
tions to the building will cost
approximately $15,000.

According to Broomall, W&L
has been trying to acquire the El
Rodeo building for about three
years because it borders on other
university-owned properties.

In particular, the university
wanted to protect its investment
in the Red Square fraternities
from a “non-compatible use,”
Broomall said in a press release.

Broomall said the university
has an agreement wherein the
university pays a grant to the city
that is equivalent to the taxes
W&L would normally pay on
new non—academic property ac-
quisitions. The new property will
fall under this agreement.

According to a W&L press
release, the university paid the
city more than $83,000 last year
to compensate for property taxes
and city services. ,

Printing Center Supervisor
Wayne Connor said he “just heard
that it’s a possibility” that his
office will be moved to the El
Rodeo location next year. He
said that although the Print Cen-
ter will be located closer to town,
the Print Center will not attempt
to take in business from town.

In a press release, Broomall
also formally announced that the
university will sell the Sigma Phi
Epsilon fraternity house at the
comer of Preston and Lee av-
enues when the new Sig Ep house
in Davidson Park is completed.

 

PAGE 2

    

@112 iKiIIg-111111 {Elsi  

Founded September 18, 1897

Goodbye,
farewell and amen

We have served on The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board for two years
now, and we’ve seen a lot things happen in this column.

The first editorial with us on the board was on April 25, 1991 and began
this way: “So you think we’re sensationalistic, immature, shallow, chest-
beating, rhetorical, unreliable, prone to pouting, National Enquirer-esque,
boring and ugly.” Those were some of the words used by respondents in
a readership survey.

The Phi called for a student review of the Conﬁdential Review
Committee in October 1991 at the start of a process which ended with the
CRC’s demise a year and a half later. That same fall, the Phi presented a
series of editorials to promote awareness of sex-related crimes, in response
to several reports of rape on campus. We also urged the Interfratemity
Council to vote against Alpha Phi Alpha’s re-colonization at W&L, a
position which earned us some heat; the IFC approved Alpha.

We kicked off 1992 with a call for honesty about the Honor System,
citing hypocrisy in the narrow confines of a lying-cheating-stealing
definition of dishonorable conduct. We evaluated the candidacy of Mickey
Mouse, among others, in a February editorial blaming the EC for poor
election planning. That month we also printed the home telephone number
of Lexington Mayor H.E. “Buddy” Derrick (463-4066) in an editorial, one
of many, against the car tax. In March, we responded to accusations of
sensationalism with a review of a newspaper’s function in the community.

Coverage of sex-crime charges impelled us to write, “Guidelines we all
can live with?” in September 1992, an outline of the Phi’s new policies on
who we name in such cases. In November, we urged the Board of Trustees
to keep its paws out of the Honor System, an editorial which prompted a
stream of debate. We then lambasted the city and demanded action by the
university in another car-tax editorial, “Follow the dollar”; the administra-
tion did not respond, but the editorial was covered by local media.

In January, we used this column to introduce an in-depth report on
University President John Wilson’s first decade in office, giving some
insight into the mind of the writer. We also this, term scolded the EC for
scheduling too-early Big Four elections, and we endorsed IFC autonomy
against SAC control of the Rush revisions process.

All in all, this column has been home to an array of opinions on
countless issues, most of direct concern to students, many of concern to
society. We wrote seriously much of the time, but sometimes we tried to
lighten things up with a humorous approach. Sometimes we ran columns
we had planned for weeks, and sometimes we struggled to fill this space
Wednesday night. But every week for the last two years, we have had the
privilege of filling this space with the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi.

Regardless of which, if any, of those opinions students have agreed
with, we hope this column, and the Phi on the whole, has provoked

thoughtful debate and, once in a while, a few smiles. As we carcen toward
graduation, we’re confident that the newspaper’s new leadership in the
spring will continue the proud tradition of The Ring-tum Phi.

There is of course one more element of this column, probably the best-

read section of the newspaper,-.the occasional feature, “Quote of the ~*

Week." ‘As"we‘bid“you farewell; we leave ytsugwim some-oﬁour’faverite
Quotes of the Week from the pasttwo years‘. ‘ ' ' ' -4 CL,'RP

—Did you know that your telephone number is I -800—DON’T-CALL?
—No. it’s not sir. It's 1 -800—FO0TBALL.

-— former Phi Editor Brian Root and an 800 operator (May 16, 1991)
There are five hundred million radios in the United States. If you laid all
those radios end to end, you would be really bored.

— Professor Brian Richardson (Oct. 31, 1991)
They’ re into a lot of service and high academic standards, not what we’ re
used to. I
— IFC President Greg Hicks on Alpha Phi Alpha (Nov. 14, 1991)
Continental drift is the only hope for the South to rise again.
—— a professor (Oct. 1, 1992)
If I give out too many, please pass them— excuse the word — to the left.
— Professor of History Jefferson Davis Futch (Oct. 22, 1992)
Hello, you’ ve reached the Institution for the Sexually Frustrated Pyro-
Necro-Beastiphiliacs. As soon as I'm done with this flaming dead cat, I'll
call you back.
V — W&L students’ answering machine (Nov. 12, 1992)
There’s only one reason we’re really here on earth. That's to reproduce.
[Otherwise ,] God could have made it painful , like you have to cut off your
arm and rub the stubs together.
— Ice-T (Feb. 25, 1993)
I am not the editor of a newspaper and shall always do right and be good,
so that God will not make me one.

— Mark Twain
C . 0
Ellie fang-tum 19111
Executive Editors . . .1 . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiecolo, Richard Peltz

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

The Hing-tum Phi, March 17, 1993

 

Et.it~11> Fhlfrf,

 

Baltimore tackles teen pregnancy issue ,

BALTIMORE — Begin here: In

1990 nearly 10 percent of Baltimore

implant will not protect her until after
her next period, which is two weeks

  
    

girls aged 15 away,andsheis
to 17, almost asked if she
all unmarried, needs a supply
gave birth. ofcondoms for
That is why in GEORGE WILL the interval,
1993 the city _ Oh, yes, she
is embarking Washington POSI says emphati-
on a program ‘ ca1ly_

to make Waters Group She is 13.
Norplant, a New , con-
long-term sider some

( f i v e - y e a r)

contraceptive implant, available to teen-
age girls at school clinics and else-
where.

The case against the program can be
put concisely: By substituting chemi-
cal protection for moral restraint, it
sends a message of resignation regard-
ing behavior once considered deviant
and reprehensible but now redeﬁned in
the name of “realism” as normal.

The case for the program can be put
even more concisely: Rebecca (not her
real name).

She is wearing sneakers, clean jeans
and a lavender sweatshirt. She snifﬂes
constantly, the consequence of a cold,
or perhaps of the substance abuse (sniff-

ing'paiI1t'ﬂiil*l'I1€f','aS‘Well' ‘as ‘using PC? ‘ ’ ‘ ‘

and -alc”(;'1'-it')l)‘21tl'i;zit'-‘g"ot li'e’r»-’~'sem£.t'(?) a

residential treatrnent center. There she ’

heard about Norplant from a public
health official. Now ata hospital clinic
she is listening impassively as a nurse
gives her all the information necessary
for informed consent for the insertion
in her upper arm, by a 10-minute pro-
cedure, of six match stick-size cap-
sules.

Rebecca, who has been sexually
active for two years, is told that the

numbers pro-
vided by Douglas Besharov and Karen
Gardiner in The American Enterprise
journal.
This year 10 million teenagers will
engage in 126 million acts of sexual
intercourse resulting in more than one
million pregnancies, 406,000 abortions,
134,000 miscarriages and 490,000
births, about 64 percent (313,000) of
them illegitimate. In 1988, 11,000
American babies were born to females
under 15. In 1990, 32 percent of ninth
grade females had sexual intercourse.
Seventeen percent of 12th grade girls
have had four or more partners.
Such numbers suggest that any
message communicated by a Norplant
program" ‘will not have’ ‘a ‘measurable

5-effect on the moresiofanage in which
more teenagers are havingsex more ‘

often and at an earlier age, and much of
the increase has been among middle
class teenagers, most of them white.
Rebecca, by the way, is white.

The question is how to limit the
social costs of all this, given the fact
that (in Besharov and Gardiner’s words)
“adolescents who cannot remember to
hang up their bath towels may be just as
unlikely to use contraceptives.”

Norplant is “teenager proof” because it
requires neitherr a daily action (as with
the pill) nor foresight (as with a dia-
phragm) nor a partner’s cooperation
(as with condoms).

Times have changed? Yes, but let’s
be clear about how. Forty years ago
teenage pregnancy ‘rates were higher
than today. However, most pregnan-
cies occurred in, or were promptly fol-
lowed by, marriage.

Today few teenagers who become
pregnant wanted to. (A study suggests
that the “wantedness” rate is higher for
whites than for blacks.) But for those

nancy.

But the prospects for such babies ’

are at best problematic. Better the
unwanted pregnancy had not occurred.
And Norplant may be the most feasible
preventative.

Norplant has been embroiled eQe—
where in controversial welfare and
criminal justice policies, raising ques-
tions of morally or legally dubious
coercion. There have been proposals
for monetary incentives or sanctions
for unmarried welfare mothers to agree
to implants. ‘

Judges have proposed implants in

Who do b<_3C0m€ lieuofprisonfor
P_T€gnaT(1iL 1T_1C1€I1- women con-
tivesan socia re— . ‘ d fd
inforcements are Tlmes have changed? Z:/licil<ela(l;us2l%:lt
ﬁmobemarkeglly Yes, but let’s be clear leaving .asi;ie ..
»xi1iiii:::i:libiaci:)sr. about h°w' Forty years 
Awhitesubur— ago teenage pregnancy acceptable for
banteenagerwho rates were higher than society to en-

becomes preg-
nant is apt to get
anabortion and go
on to college. A
black inner city

today. However, most
pregnancies occurred in,
or were promptly fol-

c o u r a g e
Norplant use,
Baltimore’s
evolving poo-
gram seems

teenager’s preg-

lowed by, marriage.

careful, consen-

nancy is not apt to
disruptsimilar‘e‘x—  r 0'?

upectations.  J   ~

Many inner-city female teenagers
have not seen a man in the role of
economic and emotional provider for a
family. And given the savage harvest
of homicide, drugs and jail, the cohort
of marriageable inner-city males is
small.

Furthermore, the pregnant teenager
is apt to have a supportive matriarchy
to rely on if she decides to have the
baby resulting from the unwanted preg-

sual and needed.
And those black

 activistswhoprofesstoseeNorplantas .

a “genocidal” attack on black fertility
should answer this: 3

What is more dangerous to the ﬂour-
ishing of black America: Norplant for
teenagers, or a growing number of black
adolescents headed for a life in poverty
because they were born into poverty to
a single mother whose life chances
were blighted by a pregnancy atgl5
years old?

© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

WASHINGTON — A federal judge has just ruled
that the national health care task force headed by
Hillary Rodham Clinton can advise the president in
private. While it’s “fact—
gathering” meetings must be

Lyndon .lohnson’s declaration in 1964 that he would
not name as vice president anyone who sat as a
member of his Cabinet. Both the law and LBJ ’s
presidential edict were petty
swipes at the same man, Rob-

open to the public, its “con-
sultations” do not have to
be.

Translation: Pillow talk
still goes.

What triggered the odd
ruling, of course, was the
president’s decision to give
his wife such a dominant
policy role. Her assignment
is to blueprint a comprehensive health care program
that (a) extends insurance to the 37 million Ameri-
cans not now covered and (b) cuts the country's
overall medical costs.

In delegating this daunting task to his wife, Clinton
is following in the footsteps of his beloved predeces-
sor John F. Kennedy, who gave his brother Robert
responsibility for the most sensitive issue of the early
1960s: civil rights.

Kennedy made the assignment formally. He ap-
pointed his younger sibling attomey general, a job
from which he could advise the president generally
while, at the same time, handling the politically
sensitive tasks of the post itself.

Naming Hillary Clinton to the Cabinet would
accomplish the same intent. It would give her the
governmental authority to both serve the president
and carry out her huge task of developing a workable,
efficient, enduring national health plan. She could
take orders and give them. She could do so officially,
not at the sufferance of her spouse.

There’s only one barrier to putting Hillary on the
Cabinet: it’s illegal. In 1967, Congress outlawed any
member of the presidential family from holding a job
under him.

As legislation, it was as stupidly deceitful as

 
  
   

CHRISTOPHER
MATTHEWS

Tribune Media

ert Kennedy. LBJ didn’t
want the former president’s
brother on his ticket but
didn’t want to say so. Con-
gress didn’t like the former
attorney general ’s aggressive
style, but also didn’t want to
say so.

So, three decades later,
we have the legacy of the
“Bobby Kennedy law.” It prevents Bill Clinton or
any other president from naming the person he wants
and needs in a job simply because that person hap-
pens to be his relative.

Services

Repeal the ‘Bobby Kennedy law’

administration’s No. 1 policy initiative?

The issue here is not legality but propriety.

The Executive is an evolving branch of govem-
ment. The Constitution does not, for example, re—
quire that a vice president take orders from the
president. Strictly constructed, the vice president’s
only job is to break ties in the Senate and becogne

president should that become necessary. Until recent 4

years, folks like Al Gore did not even have an office
in the White House.

The role of the first lady has also grown, if less
evenly. Eleanor Roosevelt was her husband's legs,
traveling where the polio-stricken president could
not. Nancy Reagan helped chart her husban ’s
course in another way, through consultation with the
stars.

Obviously, the role depends on who has it.

I believe the current first lady should be singled '

out for a title worthy

A tough argument could
be made that this law is as

of the front-line
policyrole she’s been

unconstitutional as the one
relied upon this week. If it’s
wrong for Congress to re—
strict a president’s access to
privateconsultationthrough
an advisory commission
such as Mrs. Clinton’s, isn’t
it equally so to keep him
from nominating whomever
he wants to his Cabinet?
The administration has
argued in the recent court
case that Hillary Clinton is

I believe the current first lady
should be singled out for a title
worthy of the front-line policy role
she’s been given. Even her critics
would admit that Hillary Rodham
Clinton’s mandate from her hus-
band is a vital one and that she, the
President’s spouse or not, has the
talent and zeal to carry it through.

given. Even her c it-
ics would admit that
Hillary Rodham
Clinton’s mandate
from her husband is a
vital one and that she,
the president’s spouse
or not, has the taléit
and zeal to carry it
through. Like Robert
Kennedy,hersisafull-
time job of the utmost
national concern. She,

the “functional equivalent” of a federal employee. If
so, this is one case where form should follow func-
tion. lf Hillary is functioning as a member of the
Cabinet, shouldn’t she have the title and authority of
a Cabinet officer? If the head of the EPA, the drug
czar and the U.N. ambassador all hold Cabinet rank,
shouldn't the person charged with drafting the

more than anyone else in the government, will write

the national health care policy of the administratitﬂi. -

That’s a job for a Cabinet member. As a courtesy
to the president, as a proper step in correcting a
stupid, petty piece of legislation, Congress should’
repeal the “Bobby Kennedy law.”

© 1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Student appalled by vandalism of posters

To the Editor:

Though I ought to have known bet-
ter, I am again disappointed by the
actions of the student body. The wide-
spread distribution of posters announc-
ing numerous activities is taken as a
norm on this campus.

Most of the time, one glances and
merely ignores any “offending” piece
of literature. This sort of action is
acceptable. What is not acceptable is

the active defacing and destruction of
advertisements. Case in point: tearing
a poster in half and then re-tacking the
same poster to show displeasure dis-
gusts me.

I, myself, have been turned off by
posters, such as the infamous College
Republican’s “Why are Democrats’
daughters so ugly?. . . ” Nonetheless, I
left them untouched, because I under-
stand that one has the right to voice

one’s opinions. However, in a school
system which calls for its men and
women to act like “gentlemen” and
“ladies,” this misconduct is abhorrent.

For those of you who are taking
down and destroying the posters on
sexual assault awareness, I hope you
realize that your actions are not only
dishonorable, but also cowardly. If
you hold a different viewpoint, con-
front the issue by speaking out or argu-

ing against it.

Do not play the simplcton by th-
stroying property, which I should point
out, was funded by your own money.
You are onlydefeating yourselves by
proving us right: you are insensitive
and uncaring about the dangers of
sexual assault.

9
Hoe Chin Kim, ’93
Health Education Committee

 

    

"I

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1993

OPINION

Spos says goodbye to a true friend

 

Sr-os’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

‘This week, Washington and Lee
University said goodbye to a great
man.

Last Thursday, I was sitting in the
Pit with two friends, reading the Phi
after a rather pleasant meal. Bubba
wandered up and told us that he had
s0!nething to say. Whenever Bubba
approached me in the Pit, it was usu-
ally to tell me about something pleas-
ant, like a party or a girl he had met. I
was totally unprepared when he told
me that he had to leave. He was shak-
ing when he told us his reasons for
lea/ing school. It didn’t matter what
those reasons were. All that mattered
was that he had to leave. The familiar
campus restaurant suddenly became a
very uncomfortable place, and we paid
our check before the tears welling in
Bubba’s eyes became too apparent.

¢As we walked outside, I fumbled
with my car keys as Bubba told me that
he would try hard to make it back to
W&L next winter.

“Don’t worry, Tom,” he said.
“Bubba will find his way home.
Bubbas always do.” We said goodbye
arﬁl I promised to bid him farewell
before his ﬁnal departure. As I col-
lapsed into the driver’s seat of my car,
I had to restmy head on the steering
wheel for a minute before I could start
the car. After regaining my compo-
sure, I pulled out of my parking space
arﬂ went home.

Bubba was instrumental in helping
me adjust to life at Washington and
Lee. I first saw him at the Pavilion
party freshman year. He stuck out like
a sore thumb in the large crowd of
people and appeared to be handing out

I flpers of some sort.

He approached me and gave a strong
handshake as he introduced himself.

“My name is Jameson Jared
Leonardi,” he said in a booming voice,
“but you can call me Bubba.” He
would always introduce himself that

9

way, whether he was talking to a fellow
student or to the President of the United
States. Bubba handed me an invitation
to Delta Tau Delta’s party that week-
end. Later in the week, I remembered
Bubba’sfirm handshake and his friendly
manner, and I made sure that I stopped
by Delt to visit him.

As it turned out, Bubba had big
plans for me. He was conﬁdent that I
was “Delt material” and wanted me to
join his fraternity. As an insecure fresh-
man in his first few

‘weeks in a new

I think Bubba’s generosity and self-
lessness are what made him so popular
on campus. Justabouteveryone knows
him or at least knows who he is. He is
especially popular with the girls from
Sweet Briar who all know him as a
kind, caring person. His reputation
with these girls helped him in the long
run, as he was rarely at a loss for a date
to a social function.

Ithink I realized justhow well Bubba
was known among W&L students late

last year when
we both attended

place, I wasn’t so
sure.

a party at
Zollman’s. I

Onenight,while
hanging out in
Bubba’s room, I
began to get wor-
ried about whether
the Delts liked me
enough to give me
a bid tojoin the fra-
ternity. Bubba
eased my fears.
“Don’t worry,
Tom,” he said in his
distinctive bari-
tone, “I’ll stick up

Bubba has, for me, al-
ways fulfilled the charac-
teristics of a true friend.
He always thought of
those who were close to
him before he thought of
himself. He gave me sup-
port in everything that I
did. He helped me in cel-
ebrating my victories and
consoled me after my de-

came out of
Zollman’s dur-
ing a band break
to find Bubba
wrestling in the
mud with a fel-
low student.

A small
crowd had gath-
ered to watch the
two men slip and
slide around in
the mud. Even-
tually, the crowd

for you.” Bubba did

just that. And when feats-

grew to about
150 people, each

the Delts extended
a bid for member-
ship, I was proud to accept.

In the coming weeks, Bubba would
become a close friend and mentor. I
asked him to be my “big brother” and he
happily accepted, swearing to help me
in my travel down the road toward
becoming a full-ﬂedged brother. On
“Hell Night,” the night before I was to
be initiated into the fraternity, Bubba
took care of me. I was drunk to thepoint
where I couldn’t stand up and I was
covered in various foodstuffs. Bubba
offered me new clothes to wear and a
couch to sleep on. Before he climbed
up into his loft for the night, he made
sure that I was okay and that I had a
blanket to keep me warm during the
chillynight. Bubba would always think
of others before he thought of himself.

LETTERS

of them chanting

Bubba’s name
and cheering him on. Bubba wrestled
opponent after opponent and it seemed
that not a single man at the party could
take him down.

Soon, the crowd determined that no
one could possibly defeat Bubba the
Mud Wrestler and that he should wrestle
multiple opponents. It started to get
out of hand when they sent six men up
against him. I decided that I had to save
my big brother.

'1 stripped down to my jeans and
headed into the mudpuddle to save
Bubba. The mud was really cold— I’d
estimate its temperature at about 40
degrees, but that didn’t stop me. After
about 15 minutes and many face-first
plunges into the freezing mud, Bubba
and I had driven away our six oppo-

nents, and I could hear the crowd chant-
ing my fratemity’s name all around
me.

Bubba and I have done some pretty
bizarre things together: beer slides, flag-
pole swinging and mudwrestling only
scratch the surface of the many weird
things we have done together as frater-
nity brothers and more importantly, as
friends. Several of these memories were
revived on Monday night, Bubba’s last
night in Lexington. As we sat at the bar
in The Bone, story after story would
pour forth from the mouths of myself
and my other fraternity brothers who
showed up to see Bubba off. Neil the
bartender even presented Bubba with a
complimentary T-shirt. Like I said,
Bubba is a popular guy.

At 2:30 a.m., I decided that it was
time to say my final goodbye. I thought
we would both cry after we passed
each other our fraternity handshake,
perhaps for the last time. As I walked
away, Bubba called out after me, his
last words reflecting our big brother/
little brother relationship that had car-
ried on from my freshman year until
now.

“Don’t do anything bad while I’m
gone, Tom,” he said. Even in our final
moments together, Bubba was still try-
ing to be the big brother I never had. I
left the bar that night feeling like I had
left something behind.

Bubba has, for me, always fulfilled
the characteristics of a true friend. He
always thought of those who were close
to him before he thought of himself.
He gave me support in everything that
I did. He helped me in celebrating my
victories and consoled me after my
defeats.

1 will misslameson Jared Leonardi.
"Washington and Lee just won’t be the
same withouthim. I will miss his boom-
ing voice, his firm handshake and his
warm smile. But Itake comfort in know-
ing that wherever he is, someone is
enjoying his company. Good luck
Bubba. I trust that one day you will
find your way home, wherever that
may be. Bubbas always do.

Student blasts republican letter

to
To the Editor:

It is, of course, a pleasure to see not only a
member, but an avowed representative of one’s ideo-
logical opposition simultaneously expose both his
ignorance and the ugliest faces of his group’s beliefs
in a public forum. Thus was it with satisfaction that
I aad College Republican Spokesman Paul Wright’s

remarkable letter to the Phi last week.

Mr. Wright prefaced his correspondence with a
quote from, and at this I could not suppress a pained
pang of laughter, Herbert Spencer. I strongly suspect
and genuinely hope that Mr. Wright is not familiar
with Herbert Spencer and his ideas. Spencer was
pqibably the most vicious social Darwinist of the

19th century.

He opposed any form of state action in the inter-
est of public amelioration and celebrated gross in-
equalities of wealth as just the outcome of competi-
tion among essentially unequal classes of men. He
was a racist hostile towards the most brutally ex-
pkiited members of industrializing America. It is

interesting that Mr. Wright is either ignorant enough
of his nation’s history and Herbert Spencer’s role in
it, or perhaps just deranged enough in his interpreta-
tion of Spencer’s legacy, to proudly introduce his
letter with a sampling from Spenceﬂsi vinfamo.us~.
work. Yet perhaps an expression of reverence, how-
ever intentional, for reactionary, obsolete and even
primitive social thought ought to be expected from a

Republican.

W&L and American culture
stifle diversity

To the Editor:

W&L has been doing a lot of talking
about diversity these days. We’ve been
wondering why there is not more of it
on this campus.

While part of the problem is un-
dQubtedly the group mentality encour-
aged by many Greek associations, the
real problem is cultural. Ours is a cul-
ture primed toward fitting in. having
the right clothes, cars, credit cards.
Open-mindedness and diversity are
simply pretty phrases we like to trot out
oCcasionally.

This lack of real appreciation for
diversity, this prejudice against the
unusual manifests itself in our treat-
ment of foreign students. In general
foreigners are looked at as if they were
members of a freak show. We trot them
qit in the catalog to prove our hetero-
geneity; we grill them for information
that might be of use; then we leave
them on the wayside. Socially very few
people really attempt to include them,
to befriend them. I even know of sev-
eral incidents in which foreigners were
qienly mocked at parties. Worse still,
some of ourprofessors pointedly dis-
courage them. Professors, by refusing
to provide synonyms or fill in cultural
gaps, punish foreigners for their lack of

knowledge concerning US-culture.

Last year I spent a year abroad. I
found the people both in Germany and
in France to be warm and of good
intent. When I made social blunders or
did not understand questions, every
effort was made to aid me.

I became fully incorporated into the
society, while being allowed to be
myself. Sitting in this school, contem-
plating the attitudes of many of my
fellow Americans, I long to relinquish
my citizenship. I am ashamed, morti-
fied!

Where do we come off with our
arrogance?! It can not be our economic
prowess. No, the national debt and the
abuses of many of our third world-
based companies have destroyed that.
It cannot be our educational system.
No, our high-schoolers ran far behind
those of most industrial countries.

This year part of “The Foreign Stu-
dent” will be filmed here. lsn’t it about
time we accepted foreign students as
people with whom to share experi-
ences, ideas, aspirations? Let us revive
the American dream of a melting pot,
in which all peoples and cultures con-
tribute to create a masterpiece.

Kathryn Noel Barbour, ’93

‘ Students keep library
going during storm

To the Editor:

9 I’d like to publicly express my ap-
preciation to students Molly Apter,
Andy Bidwell, Robin Bryant, Kandice
Durden, Heather Edwards, Brandon
Neblett and Scott Sulamn, and to li-
brary staff members Richard Tanson
and Vaughan Stanley for maintaining
the library’s regularly scheduled ser-

vices over this past snowy weekend. I
was reminded very forcefully again
how valuable our student assistants are
to the library’s ongoing business.

My heartiest thanks to all of you
hearty souls!

Barbara Brown
University Librarian

The thrust of Mr. Wright’s letter reveals hypoc-
risy and moral bankruptcy typical of Republicanism
as he struggles to assert that the United States has no
responsibility to take any action in order to aid other
nations or peoples that places American lives in
danger. First of all, this entire tendency for one to
classify human life by nationality and ascribe su-
preme value to the lives to his own countrymen,
though a foible common to all nations, is one espe-
cially rampant within the Republican Party, where
Americanism, at least outside the fundamentalist
wing, becomes a secular religion. (Perhaps we all

ought to move instead toward an attitude of global
cooperation that will serve humanity's interest.)
Second, in light of Mr. Wright’s apparent explica-
. tion of Republicarrprinciplesre gardin g international
.involvement, l.m,ust,wonder wlty hisiformer leader
George Bush waged war in the Persian Gulf, placing
thousands of American lives at risk while justifying
American action as a crusade “to liberate the people

of Kuwait.” Was President Bush an idealistic ren-

digress.

egade whose presidential policies boldly defied Re-
publican principles of national self interest? Or could
it be that Bush lacked both the courage and the
honesty to tell his nation that the war had little to do
with liberation and everything to do with oil? I

Most notable of all was Wright’s negative stance
towards American assistance in international relief
efforts. Only a Republican could use the words
“idealistic” and “humanitarian” in the pejorative.

Justin Peterson, ’94

Film Society

The W&L Film Society will
present “Zentropa” at 8:05 p.m. on
Friday and Saturday in
theTroubadour Cinema. As always,
there is no charge for admission and
everyone is encouraged to attend.

Party

The FreshmanLeadershipCoun-
cil is having a band party in the Pit
featuring W&L’s own “Bit Posse”
Saturday from 9 p.m. to midnight.

Lecture

Jack Jordan, senior vice presi-
dent of Bethlehem Steel, and Casey
Nolan, partner with Ernst & Young,
will present a forum on the steel and
healthcare industries tonight at7:30
p.m. in room 327 of the Commerce
School. The forum will include a
question-and-answer session and is
open to the public.

Lost

A grey Harris tweed overcoat
was lost at the Fancy Dress Ball coat
check. If you have information,
please call John at 464-4566 (Law
Carrell 210).

Elections

Elections for Executive Com-
mittee class representatives, class
officers and the constitutional refer-
endum will be Monday.

 

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar.

AIDS

The W&L chapter of the Na-
tional Lawyers’ Guild is sponsor-
ingan AIDS symposium on April 1.
The event will be held from 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m. in the Moot Courtroom of
Lewis Hall, and will feature a panel
discussion followed by a question-
and-answer session with audience
members. All members of the W&L
community interested in the legal
and social rarniﬁcations of the dis-
ease are encouraged to attend.

Blood Drive

The American Red Cross Blood
Drive, sponsored by Chi Psi frater-
nity, will be Wednesday from ll
a.m. to 5 p.m. in Doremus Gym. If
you have questions please call Bait
Sterling at 463-9327.

Kitten

The cutest kitten - FREE! A
seven-month-oldRussianTabbyfe-
male. Spayed, declawed, comes
with litter box, food and water dish,
litter, and food. If interested, please
call 464-4130.

Republicans

The College Republicans will
meet Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the
Mock Convention office. The de-
bate topic will be base closings.

Talkback

The Phi needs someone to do
Talkback starting spring term. Any-
one interested should call Fran at
463-8581.

mended by Dean Manning.

remainder of this year.

Student Body Notice

.1. A freshman male was found in violation of University conduct
standards because of his second offense of having alcohol in the dormito-
ries. His sanction from II1ﬂ.Il-1I¢§.Qf§IUd.§DI,IIQI1§IJ18iS.a $50 fine and 12
hours of community ser,v,ic.e..;The.SCC sanctioned him robe on conduct
probation for the remainder of the _year_. M A H j

2. Another freshman male received the same sanction for his second
offense of having alcohol in the dormitories. In addition to the same
sanction as above, he will also have a session with Dr. Worth, as recom-

3. Two freshman males received sanctions of three hours of community
servic each, for having disturbed the peace of a neighbor in an ungentlemanly
manner by breaking her window. After having apologized to the other
person involved, and helping to restore damages, both men will be on
conduct probation for the remainder of the year.

4. A junior male was found in violation of university standards for
urinating in the hallway of an apartment building. His sanction is that he
write a letter of apology to the apartment resident, that he perform six hours
of community service, and that he be on conduct probation for the

Greek system can crush individuality

MY VIEW
By Andrew Cohen

I swallowed the Greek bait, hook, line, and
sinker. People said, “Going Greek is a good
experience. You get to meet people, you have a
body of brothers /sisters so close they’ll do any-
thing for you, you have leadership opportunities,
and besides, the social scene here is so Greek-
based, you’ve got to do it.”

Nothing could be further from the truth.

I joined a fraternity and served as its vice-
president and public-relations chair. I was elected
by the presidents of the fraternities to the
Interfratemity Council Executive Board, where I
served until my deactivation in the spring of 1992.
I do not speak from a disenfranchised perspective,
but rather as someone who experienced the “es-
sence” of the system.

It is also important that I am honest about my
reasons for leaving. I left not because of any moral
awakening, but because I could barely stay sober
long enough to write my name. This was my

problem, not the system’s. Yet my time away from .

Greek life has led me to realize that while in the
system, there is a tendency to forget the “kind of
person” you think you are, in favor of the inclina-
tions of the herd.

As a first—year student, I came to Bucknell
University berating my parents for their interfer-
ence in my life. I was my own person, not their
juvenile, dependent son. I came to school eager to
experience my individuality for the first time. Yet,
within a few months, the burden was too great, and
I sought refuge in the acceptance of a group.

I said that I was only going to rush. But it was
so enticing. People seemed to like me. With no
more than a beer in hand and an hour or so of small
talk in common, I decided that they were going to
be my best friends.

From the very first, the things that were me, that
were pointedly Andrew Cohen, that comprised my
very soul, began to die. The physical pain of being
paddled bare-assed was, at that point in my life,
indescribable. Some “pops” (older fraternity mem-
bers picked as big brothers for pledges) and their
“sons” never talked after that night. But I learned
that silence was precious. I did not let out a peep,
and the brothers “respected that,” many shook my

hand. That made it all worth it. I was proud of my
welts, they were a badge of courage.

However, it was the psychological torture dur-
ing pledging that really broke me. I was expected
to sit in silence when I saw things that make me sick
to my stomach. When brothers senselessly decried
my very being, made me feel inhuman, I had to
suck it up, to let go of my thoughts, to ignore them,
to become numb. This was a hard lesson for me to
swallow, and I voiced objections. I even men-
tioned the word “hazing,” as I was told to do at an
anti—hazing program we had been required to at-
tend. I found out from an officer of the house that
I was not being hazed because I could disassociate
myself at any time.

It was too late. My
identity was bound into

take it, everyone would take it. Never in my year
and a half as an active member did I hear anyone
really stand up against sexism during the hundreds
of times that it occurred. I did not pride myself as
a sexist, but it was just so damn funny, everyone
roared with approving laughter.

I always thought I was the “kind of person” who
deplored racism. Yet, when a small group got
together and began making racist remarks, my
courage had disappeared like the welts. Dumb
silence pervaded my psyche. I did not know what
to say, how to say it. Everyone was having such a
good time, how could I spoil it?

Frequently, Jews were the target of disparaging
remarks. While the anger rose within me, I shut up

and smiled. Now it

the group. So I learned to

was my so-called
“people.” How could

ignore myself. One of
the brothers told me that
it was a simple psycho-
logical process whereby
the individual is broken
down only to be built up

Students need not be slaves to
the system. Students can change
the way things are. If they do not
validate the system, it will cease
to rule a university’s social cli-

there be “my people”
when there was no me?

So it was that I for-
got myself. My inse-
curity had been filled
by theethos of the herd.

as a member of the group. m ate.

I was now a leader of

It worked.

By the end of “Hell
Week,” I had discarded any remnants of myself as
an individual and rather began to enjoy my debase-
ment. I was so excited that I would soon become
a member and there would be others for me to
terrorize. By the next year, I had become what I
had held in contempt. ,

I miss my friends from my first year at Bucknell.
After pledging, it was never the same. Paradoxi-
cally, my social opportunities were enlarged and
shrunken all at once. I had an instant group of
friends called brothers. But everyone outside of
the group was somehow not as good as those in it.
Social options immediately became limited by a
set of letters.

As a brother, little changed. I ceased to be a
thinker, if I ever was one. I was always busy

jumping on the bandwagon or trying to lead one.
But as for doing anything for myself, that was
impossible; myself had long since left. The silence
I had learned as a pledge took a turn for the worse;
I put on my mask and joined the masses.

It was really no one's fault. An opening for a
sexist remark or act would occur, someone would

the system. I wrote
scathing newspaper
stories against those who opposed it. And I made
the thing look so beautiful on paper that no one
would dare write the libel you are reading. I wrote
letters praising “our diverse brotherhood which
maintains a close-knit unity.” All the while, my
experience told a very different story.

I do not believe that Greeks are bad people. The
majority of my close friends are Greek. But I do
think that the system encourages people to value
their membership in the group above their indi-
viduality and sense of self, which makes it easy for
people to become foreign to themselves.Students
need not be slaves to the system. Students can
change the way things are. If they do not validate
the system, it will cease to rule a university's social
climate. People will be able to transcend the herd
mentality to embark upon genuine relationships
that are supportive of their individuality. Such a
decision takes a lot of courage, though, a lot more
than I had during my time in a fraternity.

Excerpted and reprinted with permission of
Andrew Cohen from the the Bucknellian, Bucknell
University

 

By ANDREA COBRIN
Phi Staff Writer

Hey y'all! Does a country dance sound like fun tonight?

The Blue Ridge Boot Scooters, a local country dancing
club, sure think it does.

And a lot of Washington and Lee students do too.

“It's something different than what is [usually offered],”
junior Jimmy Kull said.

Kull, assistant country music director for WLUR, said
that because big bands are no longer popular, more people
want to dance to countr'y music.

“Country dancing is our generation’s type of ballroom
dancing,” Kull said.

The Boot Scooters give dance lessons every Thursday
night at the Ramada Inn. Line dances are taught from 6 to 7
p.m. and couples dancing is taught from 7 to 8 p.m. The cost
is $5 per person to dance for both hours.

The classes are open to people of all ages. Club member
Cheryl Link saidpeople as young as 12 and as old as 60 come
to learn line dances.

Link, who teaches the classes, said first-time dancers are
welcome.

“You just need to know how to count to four and have a
little bit of coordination,” Link said.

Link encouraged W&L students to come out on Thurs-
day nights to give country dancing a try. ‘

If enough students showed interest in learning to dance,
Link said the club would be happy to teach a clinic on
campus just for W&L students. The Boot Scooters have
taught three lessons this year at the Southern Virginia
College for Women.

Junior Sarah Smith said she was interested in seeing
more country bands play at W&L.

“If more people were involved and knew how to dance,
more country bands might come to W&L,” Smith said.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1993

FEATURES

Plays offer

By Joyce Baulista
Phi Features Editor

Student talent will not be limited to acting on center stage
of the Johnson Theatre later this month. Four advanced
directing students will present four plays, including an
original work by senior Richard Cassone.

“[I‘he play is] a
comedy about a
guy who gets in-
volved with a
woman who plays
him for a fool,”
Cassone said. “The
play is one big
laugh. You sit-
down and laugh.
And two hours later
you leave laugh-
ing.”

His play, titled
“Say I Love You,
But Whisper,” is
full—lengthandwas
funded by the bud-
get allotted to the

. ymtnu

SAY I LOVE YOU, BUT W HISPER

written and directed

by
Richard Cassone

M_,,,,3:,‘w . ' Ialti'lsonTht-.ilr9

 

mm“ 1 ’ . 1' ’ I ms mu-i
“Festival of One— .  -as 
Acts.” '
“I was lucky

[the theatre department] let me direct a play that I wrote,”
Cassone said.

He said this is the first play he has directed but not the first
play he was written that has been performed. Last spring his

   

I

array of performances

play, titled “The Garden of Sweden”
was performed in the Johnson The-
atre.

This year, however, Cassone is
able to fully develop his original vi-
sion from paper to the stage.

“I was originally worried about
casting [the play] but I have had no
problems,” he said.

However, junior Heather Aussiker
said she encountered several obstacles
directing George Brewster’s play
“Dreams of Glory.”

“It was hard getting one vision and
conveying it to the actors and design-
ers,” she said. Aussiker described
“Dreams” as a play in which the char-
acters come to the revelation about
being happy with their lives.

“‘Dreams of Glory’ is about not
having regrets or questions about your
past,” she said. “It is about never
saying, ‘What if.”’

Another obstacle she said she encountered was making
decisions and acting upon them.

“If I had to do it over again, I would go back and have
more confidence from day one,” she said.

Aussiker said one difficulty with actors involved making
them look middle—aged without the use of make-up but
simply through their actions.

“I have confidence in my actors,” she said. “Opening
night it’s out of my hands and up to my actors to see them
through.”

Junior Roseanne Combrooks said the biggest obstacle
she encountered was positioning
the actors on stage and coordinat-
ing their movements.

“I feel kind of bad for the actors
because I’ve changed my mind so
many times,” Combrooks said.

Like Aussiker and Cassone,
Combrooks is a first—time direc-
tor. She_._will present Aaron
Sorkin’s“HiddenInThisPicture.”

“The artists in this play make a
really strong statement about keep-
ing artistic integrity in a money-
driven world,” she said.

Cornbrooks hopes the play
gives the audience something to

A take home and think about.

“It’s a fun play, but there is a
message,” she said.

Senior Erin Walsh made her

Reuben (left, senior Broderick Grady) and film director Robert (right,
senior Troy Hill) on the location of a movie in Aaron Sorkin‘s “Hidden

in This Picture.”

directorial debut earlier this year
with the production of “Miss
Julie.” For her second directorial
production, Walsh chose Tennes-
see Williams’ play “Talk to Me

Publicity Photo

 
   

    

Publicity Photo

In a scene from “Dreams of Glory,” Ginger (junior Jennifer Ray), Bill
(senior Hank Huff) and Ada (senior Erin Walsh) tensely wait to hear
the news from George (junior Jeff Miklta).

Like the Rain and Let Me Listen . . .”

She said the characters in Williams’ play seem to be more
like shadow people rather than bold characters with defini-
tive dreams and motivations.

“They both need to escape but neither of them can ,”
she explained. “The woman dreams, the man drinks, and
they always find themselves together in the end.”

The “Festival of One-Acts” will run from March 24 -26
at 8 p.m. nightly. Cassone’s play opens March 28 at 8 p.m.

PUbIicity Photo
The woman (sophomore Elizabeth Weaver) and
man (senior James Elliot) from “Talk to Me Lﬂte
the Rain and Let Me Listen . .  are confined to
their room and each other.

  

    

     

0’ '
Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller:
a full Macintosh line for all your needs.

H  1 ?  rt  in a   O

O - I 0 g Q

9

U
, it

me nezi'A/Jple T/Jejiezl‘ Apple
Macintosh Color Classic. /llzicﬂzlos/.2 Cen/ris‘ 610. Mdclﬁiat/J LC 1/1.
Right now, your Apple Campus Reseller has the most affordable new for even more power, the Macintosh Centris” 610. See these new coinputeis B " ,,
line of full-featured Macintosh“ computers ever. There’s the Apple” Macintosh today at your Apple Campus Reseller Where you’ll get special student pricing,
Color Classic“ — a solid performer at a remarkable price. The Macintosh aswell as service during college? And experience the power of Macintosh. ‘
LC III, which runs'50% faster than its top-selling predecessor, the LC 11. And, The power more college students choose. The power to be your best. . V
For further information visit the Computer Center in *
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844
.\'m'ii'utrrilmlu/ileI;II[l'_/511/):,1/yr/(I(kl/Iyluxlfitw//i'I:rulrit'lrmi‘.-l/yilu.Iii//In/'i:ril.\i'i'rii'i'/’m/‘/imzr (<3/‘ll/_)’.l/I/7/i’ (.llI7//71//{'I' /ui lll i'i_gi/I/.x /'L’\l'7'Il‘(/ I/A/l/in ///l‘ I/7/r/ii/quit lIi/./ii/u.</>i/m/ /77¢‘ /m/rm’ In /)1‘ mm‘ /)(‘.\'/ NH‘7'([QI.V/t‘H‘1//I?/I/(’I1I[II'i{\'II/V.l/VI/I’(.llI}ﬂ”I//(’If/Ill". I/1/i'ii/liirb (,'iwlI'/.\’ I.\' (I /VH1/(’III1[I'i’ o/ .i/‘/',l' UIII]/III/(’l' //l(' f71l\\I( ix.1Ii",ix/iim///iiihv//i/i'i'/iiimii//u l/2/rlrii w/in/i-r /in ‘

 

 

In
...uu......

  

\

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1993

   

FEATURES

 

Senior’s sci—fi story sells

5 By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

Friff Carale escapes his home world
andjoins a major operation whose mis-
sion is the empirical search for God on
a molecular level.

. Sound like the beginning of a great
science fiction novel?

It’s the basis of “Overmind,” W&L
senior Bill Coffin’s novel, and he’s just
signed a contract to have it published.

Coffin said that he received the con-
tract a week ago.

§He anticipates that editing will be-
gin in a month, and the book will be in
print within a year.

“It was impressive how fast they
replied,” Coffin said of the publishing
company. “The book was only on the
market for six months. I got very
lrtky.”

Coffin said thatthe publisher, KAV,
a subsidiary of Trillium Press, plans to
market the book to schools for students

. age 10-18.

“It really doesn't surprise me that
they’re targeting younger readers.
'IEat’s the age when I started reading
science fiction. That's when people
start getting interested in reading,” he

said. “Most of what I write is more
accessible to younger readers. A lot of
it is kind of comic book—ish.”

Coffin said he has been writing for

finished it last winter term.”

Coffin, an English major and re-
cipient of last year’s Mahan Creative
Writing Award for Junior Prose, said

years. he has been told that he is one of the
“In high first students in
school I wrote the English de-
and drew comic partment to be
books. I wrote published as an
my first book undergraduate.
during my Coffin said
freshman year he talked with
here.” English Profes-
He said he sor Dabney
came up with Stuart to begin
the idea for the publication
“Overmind” process.
during fresh- Stuart gave
man year. him names of
“I was bored people to con-
in English class tact.
and I came up He also
with the idea. I looked up pub-
started writing lishing compa-

furiously — the
professor was
happy because he thought I was taking
notes.

“I spent that year working on the
conceptual side, characters and plot. I
wrote all during sophomore year win-
ter term, and rewrote what I had and

 

Coffin

nies in refer-
ence journals.

Coffin said he sent the manuscript
to three publishers, and one immedi-
ately sent him a contract.

“My brother opened the mail and
read the opening of the contract to me
over the phone. I was sure he was

playing a really cruel joke.”

Coffin said he thought the book
might get published eventually, but he
expected it to take four to five years.

“The euphoria hasn’t worn off yet.
The publication of this book is my
greatest dream come true.”

Coffin said he will continue to write
science fiction.

‘‘I’m kind of addicted to reading and
writing science fiction.”

Frank Herbert’s “Dune” and Wil-
liam Gibson’s “Neuromancer” are two
of his favorite science fiction novels.

He cited Herbert and Gibson as his
major influences, and Robert Heinlein
and J .R.R. Tolkien as favorite authors.

“They profoundly influenced what
I write and how I write it,” he said.

Coffin said he will make writing a
well-paying hobby, but doesn’t plan
on making it his main source of in-
come.

His advice to aspiring writers: “Al-
ways keep writing. Check your ego at
the door concerning criticism. And
never ever give up. Persistence is the
one key attribute to becoming a pub-
lished writer.”

Coffin called himself an anomaly,
saying, “It’s been an extraordinarily
easy path thus far.”

lforum celebrates ‘Women’s History Month’

By Joyce BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

Following the hype generated by
November’s election it seems appro-
pliate that Women's Forum celebrates
“The Year of the Woman” in a library
display honoring “Women’s History
Month.”

“We [Women’s Fonrm] sirnplywant
the,W&L student body to be aware of
issues that pertain to women,” senior
SbannonComer, presidentofWomen’s
Forum, said. ’

Comersaidthedisplayof books and
articles is to increase recognition of
women’s accomplishments in the last
year and to heighten awareness of
women’s issues.

“It was not a coincidence that
‘ exual Assault Awareness Week’ co-
incides with ‘Women’s History

I
.1

Month,” Comer said.

Women's Forum is working in con-
junction with the Health Education
Committee, the Dean of Students Of-
fice and the Rockbridge Area Coali-
tion Against Sexual Assault
(RACASA) to educate the campus on
sexual assault issues. Human sexuality
educator at George Mason University
Ron Campbell will speak tonight at 8
p.m. in the Keller Theatre.

Comer said other activities in honor
of “Women‘s History Month” included
a seminar concerning W&L’s relation-
ship with the area’s women’s colleges
and another seminar about W&L
women in student government.

This Friday the group will sponsor
a retreat at Skylark for all interested
women.

“We just want the student body to
think about women’s issues,” Comer
said. “That’s all you can ask.”

.....-. - ...,.

 

 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

The display of books and articles in the library is sponsored by
women’s Forum. Items range from Gloria Steinem’s “The Revolu-
tion From Within” to Susan Faludi’s “Backlash: The Undeclared

War Against American Women.”

THE

5"-I-I-E'*1‘"'3-'-'5'-'-33%-"'-’-'-'-3"“?3}I-}"‘?""'}}}}EE}2-2333"-’-E-I-EEEEEEIIIXXIII....*5C‘!{‘K4€45‘I{€41‘I334!€{{€{€€{{{€€€{{‘!€{{{{‘K€‘K(‘K4€€€‘!‘I€{€€€€€€€€{{‘I‘C{<41-33-Eff€(‘Ki‘E{{{’I€€‘?:{€€€€{‘K’I€€€€€{€€’!}}I-I‘

STUDENT ACTIVITIES OARD

presents

in the Troubadour
Thursday, March 18

at 8 p.m.

Sunday, March 21 at 3 p.m.

& 6 p.m.

2 admission

- AAAAAAAAAAAA

C<I§{§§§§§§§<I§€{€{€§§§§§§{€§§§§§§§§§<§§§§§§€§<€-i{<R§§§§§§§€§§§€§§§§§§§§€§Csiéﬁi§€<2C§§%§§§§§§§§§§§§§€§§§{§§§§§§§€§§§§§§§§§§€§§§§§KKQ<2§§§§K§<2{R§§§§§§§§§§§§{§€§§§§§§§§§§§§§<<<<<<<<<<§<§§§§§<§<€€§-its

 
 

..AAAA.s.AAAA.AAAAAa..n

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Trudge
5 Saintly auras
10 Type of rug
14 Old name of
Ireland
15 Happening
16 Sheep's coat
17 Small weight
18 Lasso
19 Hebrides island
20 Vendor
22 Repaired
24 Control strap
25 Ran
26 Bless. in a way
29 School books

 

33 Leans
34 Tried to steal a
base
35 One of the five
lakes
36 Senator
Kennedy
37 Large land
4 m t drink _ uno Ia rvvees. nc.
0 2°'§""9s owes me Med’ Se ' I 03/13/93
41 High cards All Rights Reserved
43 atgcggtnt Last Week's Answers:
44 Put in a carton 7 Slender
46 Traitor 6 Can. prov.
48 Hangs over 9 Cattle rush
49 Large number 10 Cheat
50 Increased 11 Head covering
amount 12 Superior
51 Fight against 13 Happy
54 Able to read and 21 Taste or smell
write 23 Long fish
56 Verve 25 Malice
59 Silly 26 Flower essence
61 Blue duck 27 Sister's
62 Marine growth daughter
63 Original 28 Ancient
64 Makes mistakes 29 Blackboard
65 Look at 30 Rub out
66 Lawn material 31 Passenger
67 Lavish affection 32 Gardener's
need
DOWN 34 Cram for an
1 Wooden nails exam
2 Money in Milan 38 Not quite upright 48 Inns 53 Wise one
3 Spoken 39 Game outcome 50 Underground 54 Volcanic output
4 Bad conduct 42 Educational workplaces 55 Flying prefix
mark meeting 51 Harvest 56 Sour
5 Solitary person 45 Prevented 52 French 57 Otherwise
6 Relating to birds 47 Fuel magazine 60 Neither‘s mate

  

Sforza predicts Hitler’s next thrust

50 years ago in the Phi-“Hitler’s nextthrust will probably be at Spain
and Portugal," Count Carlo Sforza predicts one week before he
leaves Washington and Lee to continue his 20-day lecture series. The
series is sponsored by the Carnegie Foundation for International

Peace.

Five years ago in the Phi — The Kresge Foundation awards W&L a
$600,000 challenge grant toward construction of the university’s
Center for the Performing Arts. W&L has now received $6 million in
gifts ‘or gift commitments for the $9 million project.

4
l
l
l

Your Ad Could Be Here. a
Call Benjy at 463-8581

UNFORTUNATEIX THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

0 I993 Thu-b¢r.r Iruumnr: and/innuily A.r./arialion/Calleyt Rtlirtrnori Fquitier Fund

A /

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs.
SRAs not only ease your current tax-

money you don’t send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference

in your quality oflife.

What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choices—from the

guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversiﬁed investment accounts of

bite, they offer a remarkably easy way

to build retirement income—especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security benefits may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on
your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the

system.

happy returns.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

CREF's variable annuity--all backed
by the nation's number one retirement

Why write offthe chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF
SRAs can help you enjoy many

Beneﬁt nalvﬁmn tax  Call our SRA botliue 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.

 

  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1 8, 1993 «

Constitutional Referendum
March 22-23, l993

Cape Cod House for Rent - One or
Two Year Lease. Locatedon Rt.‘ 39
on the river, approximately 9 1/2  4
miles from Lexington. Oil or wood
furnace, 5 bedrooms, full basement,
dining room, living room, den,
large kitchen. Call 348-5210

 EXCELLENT
   EX_TRA“INCOMlE NOW! 4
'2 ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week -
5 Free Details: SASE to

   
   

  TGIF

OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive
merchandise from America’s most famous mail
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters —
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

W&L Art N

1870 Washington College Diploma
signed “RE. Lee"

Signatures:
Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee, Jr.
M. Miley John Letcher

'Edward Valentine

w&L copperplate. hand-colored
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron ’.l‘un1son.
Mary and George Washington P130535

iiiﬁiiiiuiuiuls
lilllllllll

4 East Washington Street Open Monday — Saturday

7

 

International Inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

*rent in ‘downtown’Lexington, just a very short walk from

Apartment for Rent

Catering to W&L Students — Two—bedroom apartment for

the W&L campus. $150 per month, per bedroom. $300 per
month for the unit. I
— Great Location '
——- Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet
— Landlord Pays for Water, Including Hot Water

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown,
at 463-3013.

 

    
 
   
  

  aPPo9ia9-Q0‘

All Winter Merchandise
23 N. Main St. 5 0% 0/7

Lexinton, VA 24450

Cannondalc - K - Diamon B - it
J ansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

' 130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

   
 
 

\  

 

(703) 463-5988

      

A  \

        

453-7969

Valley ,7iae"I/z&az

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.—6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Lexington, VA 24450 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

kkwoal 464-6464 jj

    

 Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable “ 
 1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95  
 Saturday Night Prime Rib , 
 _ Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95 Truck stop 5
 Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.

 4 miles North on Route 11

£55, We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell

 -'=-:#;5:-'-:-:-'-:- ;_.;.   . _ - - - . - - '- - . """"""""""""""""""" "

 

SUCCESS.
GET AN EDGE ON COLLEGE EXPENSES.

The Army can help you get an edge
on college expenses in just two years.

When you enlist and qualify for a
certain skill, you could become eligible
for the Montgomery GI Bill Plus the
Army College Fund. That means you
could earn $17,000 for college with
a two—year enlistment.

And the Army will give you
another edge, too. You’ll develop
the self-discipline, self-conﬁdence and maturity you’ll
need to succeed in college.

Find out more about how you can get $17,000 for
college in just two short years. Call your local Army
Recruiter for more information today.

Call (703)463-2166

ARMY
BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

 
     
 

-I

Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99 , '

 
     

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1993

Harrismeter

MEANS LOW pmcrs

REDUCED PRICE

&
MAHI MAHI 
~ FILLETS

99

LB.

MORE THAN 70% LEAN

' IANY sizr PKG.

GROUND FRESH - ‘\
SEVERAL TIMES DAILY

    
    

   

FRESH

GROUND
BEEF  LB.

19

  

GOLDEN ..
nuns B“-,,-,-;.,,.,,-59
BANANAS

_LB.
.  O

 

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

 99

O
PEPSI
- A
v

  
 

REDUCED
PRICE

 
 
 

REGISTERTO WIN IN
HARRIS TEETERS

FLY WITH ‘THE

-I-HORN ETS

SWEEPSTAKES

You Could Win One Of These Fabulous
Prizes. See Details And Register At The
Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter.

: One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando
Florida For The Game With Orlando
Magic, Includes Air Fare On U.S. Air
Accommodations And Game Tickets.

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,
0 N.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes
Game Tickets & Hotel Accommodations.

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call I-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

0 One Pair OI Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away
I In Each Harris Teeter For March/April Games.

Find Details And Register At The Coke
Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter.

   

lO¢ OFF LABEL - REGULAR LIQUID

CLORO

X .68
BLEACH ........... ..l 28 oz.

CREAMY OR EXTRA CRUNCHY 
JIF PEANUT 2
BUTTER ......................... ..28 oz.

KRAFT ORIGINAL

MACARONI & CHEESE

DINNER ........... ..7.25 oz. 0 5 5

ADC OR P/R I

  

FOLGERS
COFFEE ......... ..l 3 oz. BAG
SLICED TO ORDER
SMOKED TURKEY
BREAST

99

IN THE DELI-
BAKERY

LB.

 

CROWLEY GOLD COLLECTION
FROZEN YOGURT
OR ICE CREAM

99

HALF
GAL.

A

 

WHITE RAIN
HAIR CARE
PRODUCTS

is/'itt§falr'l'a’s
4- I5 OZ.

Prices Effective Through March 23, I993

' Prices In This Ad Eilective Wednesday, March l7 Through Tuesday, March 23, I993.

in Lexington stores

Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept reuetul . .. . .;I0lTIpS.

Women get their own
IM athletic program

Canfield says ‘potential is unlimited’

By Mou.v Arman
Phi Staff Writer

Two-thirds of the student body are
currently involved in the intramural
program.

Butallof those stu-
dents are male.

“We are servicing
the needs of only part
of the student body,”
IM director Verne
Canﬁeld said.

That’s about to
change. Women’s IM
volleyball opens the
door for the four so-
rorities and a team of
independent women
to compete against one another in ath-
letic events.

At the moment, only the four sorori-
ties on campus, Pi Beta Phi, Kappa
Kappa Gamma, Chi Omega and Kappa
Alpha Theta, and the team of indepen-
dents participate in the program.

 

I M an eld

Junior Phil McCoy, the student head
of the IM program, says there have
been efforts to include the women from
the law school.

“I ’ve asked three law school women,
but have gotten no reply,” McCoy said.
“The student in charge
of the men’s law
school IM teams says
the women would like
to do it, but I haven’t
heard anything.

“We could have
two leagues of three
teams each[if the law
school women partici-
pate]. It would be bet-
ter,” McCoy added.

The IM volleyball
tournament was held
last week. Not to take out any of the
tension, but Kappa AlphaTheta has the
enviable distinction of being crowned
the champion in the first-ever IM event
for women.

Theta entered the championship
game against Kappa with an impres-

sive 4-0 mark. Kappa came into the
match with a not-so-shabby mark of 3-
1. But Theta proved to be too much,
takingthechampionshipbeltbyacount
of two games to one.

Aside from the athletic competi-
tion, some women see intramurals as a
way to help relations among W&L
women.

“It’s a good chance to get to know
independent women and women in
other sororities,” said Chi O’s Bethany
Smith. “It’s a chance to play some
sports and have a good time.”

McCoy wants to continue the
women’s IMs into the spring, while
Canﬁeld is developing plans to expand
the program next year.

“Next year I’d like to have five or
six events,” Canfield said. “Teams
could accumulate points and there
would be an end-of-the-year overall
champ.”

“I’vc always been in favor of [a
women’s IM programl,” Canfield
added. “lt’s all about participation. Its
potential is unlimited.”

   

    

 of Nightmares   

Photo by Darren Winslow, The R/‘ng—tum PIT!

of the Century.

That's exactly what It's been for coaches trying reschedule all the games wiped out by the Storm

._.. . 

Break:
CANCUN, NASSAU
from $299
Organize a small group for FREE trip
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

ring

Assistant
Business
Managers,
Ad Manager,
and Circulation
Manager

for

The Ring—tum Phi
Call Kevin Roddey
463-7922

UNO

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

MTen— W&L 9,Nazareth 0 (2-1)
WTen- W&L 5,Nazareth 4 (5-2)
T&F— (M) W&L 78,B’water 62 (1-0)

PAGE8g

S

Cilia ifxing-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK&FlELD

 
  
   

E-ei!6i:—S\y21v.%9e|§1:e: an (2) 1 pm

MLax— Lynburg /18 3pm; G’burg 3/21 2
WLax- at RC 3/ l8 (tent.) g
MTen-Kerﬁyon 3/19 3;Wooster 3/20 10a
WTen— at, ’water 3/ 18;Kenyon 3/ 19 3pm
Golf— at Roanoke/ODAC Invit. 3/18

T&F— (M&W) W&L Invit.

MARCH 18, 1993
4..

Weather wreaks havoc with sp

By SEAN O’RoURxE
Phi Sports Editor

There was a commercial on
television when I was growing
up—I think it was for Land—O—
Lakes Margarine——that had the
best closing line in all of com-
mercial history.

It went something like this—-
“It’s notnice to fool with Mother
Nature.”

Well, someone on the East
Coast sure got under ol’ Mother
Nature’s skin because she came
out of her comer this past week-
end slugging.

The Great Storm of ’93, no
pardon me, the Storm of the Cen-
tury dumped more than 16 inches
of snow on Lexington (and most
of the East for that matter) in an
effort to show those she was ag-
gravated with who was boss.

Millions of people suffered
from the storm as did the Wash-
ington and Lee spring schedule.
Eventafter eventwas eitherpost-
poned or canceled; and when the
snow has melted and the flowers
of spring begin to open them-
selves to the invigorating sun,
the spring schedules will still be
suffering the effects of the Storm
of the Century (sounds like a
game show).

Oh where, Oh where dolstart?
I am one man reporting on eight
sports. There’s a logical solu-
tion, alphabetical order.

Baseball-—

Head coach Jeff Stickley
seems to be in the worst position

 

   

of all spring sports coaches.
You’ll find a picture on this page
somewhere of Smith Field, where
the Generals play all their home
baseball games. Granted, the pic-
ture was taken a few days ago,
but you can imagine the amount
of water the field has absorbed in
the past five days.

“We can’t get on the field,”
Stickley said. “A baseball field is
different from a lacrosse field. It
must be playable.” '

Rightnowit’snot, and ithasn’t
been since mid-semester break
when the team went on its annual
Florida adventure.

“Since the Florida trip we’ve
been on the field six days, in total
(that includes practices, games,
scrimmages).”

For now the team will work
out indoors, and hopefully by
Saturday the field will be in good
enough shape to host the W&L-
Virginia Wesleyan game.

Keep your fingers crossed.

Golfers are sort of like post-
men, they can play through rain,
high winds, scorching heat and
cold temperatures. The one ele-
ment impossible to play through
is snow. Something about a little
white ball and the white snow.

Head W&L golf coach Buck
Leslie has the task of trying to get
his team in enough matches so
they will be ready for their an-

nual run to nationals.

For junior captain Jimmy
Kull, the loss of match-playhurts
them because of their youth.
“It[the weather] most defi-

nitely hurts our golf team be-
cause we are an extremely young
team, with four freshmen play-
ing,” Kull said.

Kull says he thinks the layoff
hurts the freshmen both mentally
and physically, while the more
experienced players will prob-
ably lose their physical edge.

Right now the team’s sched-
ule is up in the air. The matches
planned for this week have been
canceled, and even the one for
Monday is in jeopardy.

Lacrosse—

The real curse for the men’s
and women’s lacrosse teams is
not that their games were post-
poned.The real curse is that both
games werekeytotheirsuccesses
this season.

The men missed their shot at
revenge against Roanoke, while
the women lost a shot at lacrosse
power Salisbury State. After
psyching themselves up to play
well, players on both squads had
to come down and regroup.

The men are set to start the
“second half” of their 1993 sea-
son by disposing of Lynchburg
this afternoon. They” have to
bounce right back because the
Storm of the Century has cut
them a break in the schedule.

The team was to travel to
Gettysburg to take on the highly-
ranked Pennsylvania team. But
the game has been moved to Lex-
ington, either at Wilson Field or
in Buena Vista, for Sunday at 2
p.m.

The women, however, are still
in the dark at to their future plans.

 

The team was set to play at
Roanoke today, but at the time
this story was being written, no
decision had been ‘made on
whether it was a go.

Tennis—-

The W&L tennis teams prob-
ably have the best chance to make
up all the matches that have been
canceled by the foul weather these
past few months.

A tennis court dries relatively .

fast and barring any sort of pre-
cipitation,the teamscan play their
matches.

But this has a drawback,
though. The more matches that
need to be rescheduled, the less
days the teams have to rest. That
could prove costly down the
stretch in terms of physical and
mental sharpness.

Women’s coach Cinda
Rankin says the attitude of her
team has been exemplary.

“They have been excellent
about the erratic practice sched-
ule,” Rankin said. “They all have
an attitude of ‘we have to go
on.”’

Men’s captain Robbie
MacNaughton thinks the team
needs to make up their matches
to improve their chances for the
national tournament.

“It’s[the weather] hurt us in
that we have to play as many
matches as possible to work up
from our low preseason ranking
to have a chance at national,”
MacNaughton said.

Track&Field—

The men’s and women’s out-
door track teams must have plenty

Aside from the small sections of field that appear in the foregrou
there truly was a Smith Field. The Generals baseball team will hav
sun to help dry the field in time for Saturday's game.

 

    
   
    
   
  
   
    
    
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
   
    
    
   
    
   
   
  
  

The only sound that could be heard from the bleachers of Wilson Field wasthat of snow
drifting over the metal seats. The men’s lacrosse team hope to fill those stands on
Sunday when national power Gettysburg pays the Generals a visit. Maybe then the

sound from the bleachers will be t

victory.

of the Irish in them because the
weather has reallyhad no signifi-
cant effect on their schedules.
The men were able in their
first meet of the outdoor season
against Bridgewater before the

 

the weather.

 

Storm of the Century dumped all
the white stuff. But neither team
has missed any meet because of

Both teams were not sched-
uled this week and have a better-

rng sports

hat of rabid W&L fans cheering on their team ‘to

than-average shot at getting the
Second Annual W&L Invita-
tional in on Saturday.

A word to the wise —- don’t
mess with Mother Nature. She
can be really mean. 0

 

Photo by Darren Winslow, The Ring—!um Phi
nd, it would be impossible to tell if
e to hope for sunny skies and awarm

on Saturday.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

way for the women’s team to resume

Photo by Darren Winslow, The Fiing—tum Phi
No aces will be served on courts in this condition. The weather of the past few days have cleared the

play at home. They will try to do so against top-ranked Kenyon

There was some action last week.

The 20th-ranked W&L men’s ten-
nis team easily disposed of Nazareth
on Friday, 9-0. The win upped the
Generals season mark to 2-1.

The Generals lost only one set in
pitching an impressive shutout. The
match was supposed to be a tune-up for
the showdown with regional rival
Emory. But alas, the snow came and
that was that.

Junior

captain (Robbie

MacNaughton, the 29th-rariked player
in Division III, made short work of his
Nazareth opponent, 6-0, 6-3.

The W&L women’s team had to
come from behind against Nazareth to
pick up their ﬁfth win of the season, 5-
4

The Generals were trailing 4-3 with
first doubles and third doubles still
competing. Sophomore Marilyn Baker
and freshman Julie Ayers polished off
their opponents. The third doubles team

of sophomore Melissa Malone and
freshman Helen Chandler won it.

The Generals went 3-0 for the week,
but they played without as many as
three of their top six players. Sopho-
more Cathy Gartin and freshman
Shelley Sunderman missed all three
contests, while Ayers missed the
Hollins match.

The W&L golf team opened their
1993 season with a second-place finish
at the Bridgewater/ODAC Invitational.

The Generals ended the day with a 343,
finishing 21 shots behind Randolph-
Macon’s winning score of 322. Fresh-
man Gam Mattingly led the team with
an 81.

The men’s track and field squad
kicked off their 1993 campaign with a
78-62 win over Bridgewater Friday.

Senior Bo Hannah and freshman
Dax Mahoney paced the Generals with
two wins apiece.

Hannah crossed the tape first in the

l,500- and 5,000-metér runs, while
Mahoney sprinted his way to first-place
finishes in the 200- and 400-meter
dashes.

Finally, the women’s swimming
season was officially completed last
weekend as senior Claire Dudley and
freshman Rebekah Prince eamed All-
American honors.

Prince capped her phenomenal first
season by eamin g first-team honors in
the 100-yard and 200-yard backstroke.

She finished seventh and sixth, respec-
tively. Prince also earned honorable
mention in the 200-IM for her 15th-
place finish. Prince became the secorll
W&L female swimmer to be a three-
time All-American.

Dudley ended her brilliant four years
at W&L by earning honorable mention
All-America honors with her 16th-place
finish in the 200-yard breaststroke. It
was Dudley’s fourth trip to the nationzd
meet.

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS

Three months till summer; do you have a job?

VARNER & POLE

115 S. Main St., Lexington

For your extra pieces of furniture

Furniture Dealers

@

463-2742

rrnrrrr llllllll

 

 

   
  
 
 

Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving Resumes ' C0V6rL€ll6fS' FIYCTS ' CODES ' Binding ,.: i  ""  :
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT Come see us -- we’ll make you look good!  Four Bedroom house for Kent §
nw~Ne1sonsrreex Robbwones E   ..::.t=..a2rs°.;t....s.  f°’ "‘*"‘ S°“°°' yea’ 2
Lexington, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022 125 "NELSON STREET ' ' 53 Ca"  5 ’
_ _ ‘ '—Q3:—:Q—'QQQQ——_‘—~QQ::Q—n——ﬁ-
Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? , STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLANTATION.FL 3331 ' d_ _
Now you can have two of the most recognized and I  I tvlSA®/MASTERCARD® Cred“ . £11350 .IwODEot'lCOAR 
acocptcd credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and MastcrCard® I . wan _ . I _ .
credit cards--“In your rrgrgz-;,EVEN ::FDY% vs-£133 3%; lEN' I Cards. Enclosed nnd s 5 which is 100% refundable it not t 23233 :9;~ll;E
HA . TURN . -.
CRED” °' VF . l approved immediately. I TOSHIBA MARANT2
VISAG’ and MastcrCard® the credit cards you I I K5,: CW9
deserve and need for— ID-—BOOKS——DEPARTMENT | NAME | BOSTON Dgpmrnvg
STORES-—TUlTl0N—ENTERTAlNMENT— . , K|_|PscH BAZOOKA
EMERGENCY (msH—TicKE1s—REsT.A.URANrs— ADDRESS _
HOTELS-MOTELS—GAS—-CAR RI-ZNI‘ALS— ' V ' - 3iiEv’E'§Er5‘ai3"r’E'3‘ii‘é7«Pr5t°i®RA” o
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY STATE ._ ZIP ____._ : ; §f§Tsr.§F§;:sSLELR»x‘;g~crE>'»3;zEx§rMe~r
I . ‘
.““(EE“ . PHONE  ' - ‘hIAv§tSS1§ERf¥‘(E:IfRhlg9’:‘/iS3\R;uD‘|2CS2OVER
°" s‘E“c;I9 no credit; _ : SIGNATURE ,, : (300) 453.5657
“sgllaﬁgo  g "0 5eC|"'1t.Y d8D0S1t! NOTE: Masiercaru Ls a register!-cl tradcrrnrk or Masicrcxni lntcmatlornl Inc. Comer of Ogden & smkey Road;
gu\I‘°,.ct ml ab l d teed so I Visa is a registered tradcrrnrk ofVlSA USA. Inc and VISA lntcrratlonal I overlooking Tanghwood Ma" .
$ App‘-0 S0 U‘ y guaran ' S‘-""'a5 ““r"'°“- 1000/.  I 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke
'3’ I 1 -—

  

 

