 

 

 

THE uutvaer

WASI-llNt3TO"t 5§=.‘fc'ﬂ5ﬂTY

LEXlE‘:$'i‘I.~.\'. v.-\‘ Mast)‘

APR 2 21993

A Native Son’s Legends Return

Marshall DeBruhl Brings the
Adventures of Sam Houston
Back to Life in his New Book

0

The Generals losing streak I
hﬂsseven

Break prooves painful
for Baseball Team

0

. he Bing-tum lﬂlti

VOLUME 92, NO. 23

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

April 22, 1993

 

L  

...At Last!!!

Photo By Bethany Smith, The Ring-mm Phi

Senior Phil Spears enjoys Tuesday’s sunshine by reading a book on the Colonnade. Temperatures soared to almost 80
degrees earlier this week. Temperatures dropped Wednesday, but weather reports predict warm weather for Foxfield.

(_3roups show . support for VMI

FROM STA FF REPORTS

The controversy surrounding Virginia Military
Institute’s single-sex admissions policy may soon be
settled by the United States Supreme Court.

a friend-of-the—court brief filed yesterday, four
interest groups asked the Supreme Court to review
the Fourth Circuit Federal Appeals Court’s decision
that would threaten VMI ’s current admissions policy.
Virginia’s five all-women’s colleges filed their own
brief in March. Should the Supreme Court decide to
take the case into consideration, it may reverse the

  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  

I

 ‘.

 

  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
      
      
  
  
    
  
     
   
    
     
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
    
   
   
  
     
   
  
    
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
    
     
    
    
     
   
  
  
 

rite Phot
Single-sex formations could be a thing of the past at

VMPit the Supreme Court does not rule on the case.

New pub coming

“That location has been a
W&L hangout for years,” said
Gorman.

Gorman originally hoped to
have a liquor license for The
Raven and Crown by Alumni
Weekend, when his class will
return to Lexington for its five-
year reunion. However, in,.Vir-
ginia, a restaurant must be open
for two weeks before it can get a
liquor license.

According to Gorman, The
Raven and Crown will be open
seven days a week. He said the
restaurant will open for break-
fast at 6 a.m. and will stay open
later as the week progresses.

“I'm willing to stay there as
long as there are people there,’
Gorman said. “I’m sure there
will be nights when I’m there as
late as 3 am.”

No liquor may be served after
2 a.m., said Gorman.

Gorman said it was his part-
ner Esther Scherf—Durham’s idea
to open for breakfast. Scherf-
Durham used to be executive chef
at The Wills()n-Walker House.

The menu will feature break-
fast all day long, sandwiches,
fresh seafood and pasta. Gorman
said he is taking into account that
people are more health—con-
scious,buthe willstillofferham-
burgers, french fries, and onion

rings.

‘ By Andrea Cobrin
Phi News Editor

Another new restaurant is
coming to Lexington.

A former Washington and Lee
student is opening The Raven
and Crown, a new restaurant and
puB, under Mountain Copy
Graphics. i

Owner Chris Gorman envi-
sions an Old English decor for
The Raven and Crown, which he
hopes to open by Alumni Week-
end on May 7.

Gorman said he wants the res-
taurant to cater to W&L and VMI
students as well as to local resi-
dents.

‘‘I want a place that everyone
feels comfortable in,” Gorman
said. “A middle—of-the—road
plade. Not too quiet, not too
loud.” ‘

Gorman was a member of
Washington & Lee’s class of
1988, but did not graduate from
W&L.

The Raven and Crown will be
locged at 16 Lee Avenue. The
space, which has been empty for
two years, previously housed The
Subway, a sandwich shop not
related to the national chain.
Subsequently, it was a meeting
place for Sigma Nu fraternity
whﬂe their house was being reno-
vated.

lower court’s decision, and preserve VMI’s current
admissions policy. ,

The United States Court ofAppeals for the Fourth
Circuit ruled last fall that VMI must admit women to
the school, provide equal educational opportunities
for women or lose their state funding. The court held
that VMI may not continue its all-male admissions
policy because the policy is inconsistent with the
Supreme Court’s interpretation of the Equal Protec-
tion Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

Women’s Washington Issues Network (Women-
WIN), Women for VMI, Frank F. Hayden and Oscar

W. King Ill, discuss in their brief
that the Fourth Circuit’s decision
could hurt women’s interests, ac-
cording to a press release from
O’Connor & Harman, a Washing-
ton D.C. law fimt.

They argue that the all-women
admissions policies of Mary
Baldwin College, Southem Virginia
College for Women, Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College, Sweet
Briar College and Hollins College
could be endangered by the circuit
court’s decision. Hampden—
Sydncy’s all-male admissions
policy could also be threatened.

Also in legal jeopardy would be
publicly funded shelters for bat-
tered women or rape crisis counsel-
ing ccnters, which are normally pro-
vided exclusively for women or
have institutional missions targeted
primarily to meet women’s needs,

said the group.
Women-WIN is a non-profit, Virginia corpora-
tion founded by women and committed to the profes-

sional development of women and men who support"

limited government, individual responsibility, and
economic rights.

Women for V MI is an association of5,00() people
who support single—sex education and consider the
educational philosophy of VMI an important option
for men.

Frank Hayden, fomier president of the Detroit
Board of Education, recommended establishing three
public all-male schools in Detroit. He abandoned his
plans as a result of a lawsuit raising a constitutional
challenge identical to the one brought against VMI.

Oscar King, former chairman of the Detroit chap-
ter ofthe Urban League, is a proponent of central city
all-male schools.

The brief states if the circuitcourtdecision stands,
it could jeopardize thelfuture of all single-gender
programs funded by the govemment. The brief
contends that the Equal Protection Clause requires
that states provide “generally comparable access for
women and men to government services.” These
“opportunities may be evaluated in light of the rela-
tive demands and needs of each gender for a particu-
lar service.”

The brief emphasizes the positive benefits that
single—sex education can provide. It observes that
charges of sex discrimination have thwarted at-
tempts to organize single-sex educational programs.

The brief was presented to the Supreme Court
yesterday at 2 p.m. After hearing the presentation,
the court can decide either to review the lower
court’s decision or to let the ruling stand.

to town  

Gorman said the average
breakfast will be about $3, lunch
$5, and dinner $7. The most
expensive item on the menu will
be about Si 1.50.

Gorman said there will be two
beers on tap and about 3() differ-
ent bottled beers.

“We want to have some inter-
esting beers you don’t usually
find,” Gorman said.

The Raven and Cro“wn will
offertakc-outand delivery within
six blocks and will also be avail-
able f or rental, said Gorman.

“I don’t want to bite off more
than I can chew initially,” said
Gorman. “But I do have a lot of
ideas for it.”

Gorman said he and a few
friends came up with the name
for the restaurant. There is a
black raven and a gold crown on
the W&L crest.

“I wanted to have a name that
fit in with the atmosphere,”
Gorman said.

The Raven and Crown will
employ about a dozen workers.
Gorman said they will hire both
W&L students and local resi-
dents. Gorman said he wants to
hold a special grand opening for
the restaurant,‘ but he hasn ’ t made
any definite plans.

“I don’t want to be one of
those places that opens with a
boom and then fizzles out.”

a Rising Class Officers
and EC Reps.

Third-year law EC Rep. --
James Rambeau

Second-year law EC Rep. —
Kevin Webb

Senior EC Reps. —
Kenny Bullock, Allison Lewis

Junior EC Reps. -
Alex Cross, Carol Pierce

Sophomore EC Reps. —
Justin Dardani, David Stewart

Senior class President —
Bill Chappell

Senior class Vice Presidents -
Michelle Hobbs, Kevin Roddy

Junior class President -
Whitney Bludworth

Junior class VicePresident —
Michael Brooks

Sophomore class President -
Bob Turner

Sophomore _class Vice President -
Madeline White

 

Thefts plague
Law Library

By THOMAS HEst>os
Phi News Editor

Washington & Lee’srevered Honor
System may not be enough to deter
thieves from stealing items from the
Law School Library.

According to two Law School Ex-
ecutive Committee Representatives,
studcnt carrel s in the Law Library have
been the targets of numerous petty
thefts.

“It’s been happening all year,” said
First-Year Law E.C. Rep Kevin Webb.
“It deals with stuff from gum and pens
and ranges up to sweatshirts and
walkmans.”

Director of Security,Mike Young
said he believes the crimes are being
committed by townspeople who wait
until after dark to enter the library in
order to steal items from the carrels.
Young said he has reason to suspect a
particular townsperson, but the suspect
disappeared before his suspicions could
be confirmed.

Young said he has instructed the
library staff to report any individuals
they find suspicious-looking to secu-
rity. According to Young, security
staff will approach any suspicious in-
dividual and will ask such an indi-
vidual to leave the premises if they
have no business in the library.

But Webb isn’t so sure that towns-
people are responsible.

“I’d like to think that it's townies,”
said Webb. “Some people have been
saying ‘Hey- some law students have
to be doing this/”

Webb said the thefts are occurring
too often for townspeople to be solely
responsible. He said most of the items
stolen are small, seemingly inconse-
quential items, such as pens, chewing
gum and soft drinks.

But sometimes more expensive

items are taken.

“I had a walkman stolen,” said first-
year law student Shelley Walters.

Walters said she entered the library
at 9 a.m. approximately two weeks ago
to find that someone had gone through
her carrel.

“All the doors were standing wide
open,” she said.

Walters said she discovered that her
walkman was missing, but did not re-
port it to campus security beacuse she
thought the chances that the walkman
would be recovered were slim.

Webb said thefts are reported to him
almost every day. Items reported sto-
len include sweatshirts, tape players,
and a book bag in which a student’s
money was kept.

Third-Year Law EC Replay Sterne
counts himself among the law students
victimized by the thief.

“I had ajacket taken from my car-

rel,” he said.

Sterne said the law library carrels
are equipped with a lockable closet in
which law students can store their valu-
ables.‘ He said he has recommended
that law students take advantage ofthis
feature, despite the presence of the
Honor System. ,

“Once you’re in the W&L commu-
nity, you get that sense of trust in your
environment,” he said.

Webb said he has tried to put an end

to the thefts. He wrote a letter to the .

W&L Law News reviewing the phi-
losophy found in the White Book. He
said there is very little the EC can do in
such situations because no specific stu-
dents are suspected of stealing. Webb
said he prefers that campus security
handle the problem.

Sterne also believes that the prob-
lem is out of the EC’s hands.

“Unfortunately, therc’s not much
we can do,” he said.

EC rejects latest
budget proposal

By FRANCESCA KIEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

The Executive Committee rejected
the bulk of the year's second proposed
budget reformation March 30, while
unanimously voting for one of its ar-
ticles. ~

Second-year law student Laura
Anderson first proposed the budget
policy March 15. The proposal con-
sisted of five articles and proposed the
EC adopt a neutral policy of funding,
which would allow the EC to fund all
organizations, including partisan
groups. The last attempt at budget
reformation was made on February 1,
when ACLU President Andrew
Schneider proposed a policy to allow
the EC to fund partisan groups.

Anderson told the EC, if adopted,
the new proposal would give all groups
the opportunity to receive funds re-
gardless of current or past partisan ties.

The EC discussed the proposal, but
did not vote at the time. Anderson
returned to the EC March 29, at which
point they voted on the proposal.

The EC unanimously voted in favor
of article three of the proposal, which
said all organizations funded by the EC
must be open to all members of the
University community. Articles two
and four were rejected by an eight to
five vote. .

Article two said the EC “will not
punish or reward a student group for
taking aposition of social importance.”

Article four said EC-funded groups
could not require dues. The purpose of
the article was to ensure that all stu-
dents, regardless of economic status,
could participate in student organiza-
tions.

The EC did not motion to vote on
articles one and five. Article one called
for funding of all groups, partisan or
non-partisan. Article five, which was
inconsequential unless the whole pro-
posal was passed, setup funding groups.

Anderson said her greatest concern
is the EC’s ability to change its budget-
ing policy at will.

“Hopefully the idea of getting some-
thing codified will be passed on,”

Anderson said. “People need to realize
the possibilities ofadifferent EC doing
things their own way.” '

EC Presidcntlosh MacFarland said
the only two guides the EC has for
policy-making are the White Book and
the Student Body Constitution. The
only guideline the EC has for budget-
ing is a statement adopted November
2.

That policy states the EC will not
“directly fund politically and ideologi-
cally partisan organizations. The Ex-
ecutive Committee will remain neutral
on issues of national politics and politi-
cal ideology.”

Anderson’s proposal received
strong opposition from several EC
members. EC Vice President Ames
Hutton told Anderson the current bud-
get policy works fine.

“In my opinion you’re trying to fix
something we do not perceive as bro-
ken.”

Junior EC Rep. Ashby Hackney
warned Anderson about trving to
change things too quickly.

“People come to W&L for what it
stands for,” Hackney said. “Granted,
everything needs to change. But this is
W&L and it’s not going to change
overnight.”

Freshman EC Rep. Peter Agelasto
voted for all three articles of the new
proposal. Agelasto said the current
policy stilles groups anti keeps them
from becoming active in the Washing-
ton and Lee community.

“I maintain that it is broke for me,
and if it’s broke for me, it's broke,”
Agelasto said.

Third-year Law Rep. Jay Sterne,
Second-Year Law Rep. James
Rambeau and Sophomore Reps. Carol
Pierce and Robert Stewart also voted
for all three ariiclcs.

Anderson said she will continue to
work on a codified budget next year.
She said she doesn’t mind writing re-

jected proposals as long as the EC
makes informed decisions.

“Disagree or agree, but be informed

about your decision,” Anderson said. ,

“l’ll spoon feed, they cart knock it
down.”

  

  

PAGE 2

 

 

@112 itlingi-tum iﬂlii

Founded September 18, 1897

The all-new,
improved Phi

“I heard you missed us... we're back!!!”
——David Lee Roth, Hot for Teacher

Yes, the rumors you have heard buzzing around campus like so
many spring bumblebees are true. The Phi is back, but this time we
brought a few new friends with us. Most of our new editors.
including some of the ones responsible for this editorial, have
never been editors at the Phi before. So you ask, what's the point?
Well, believe it ornot, we're really excited about ournew staff. We
know what you're thinking: The Florida Marlins are excited about
theirnew staff, but they're not writing editorials about it. Bear with
us.

Like so many major corporations today, the Phi has subjected
itself to radical reform. We have downsized our staff, infused the
tired, old Phi with fresh new talent and transfonned it into the new,
rejuvenated Phi. So what does all this mean to you? It means a
better newspaper. ‘

We have just one request: tell us what you think about the papers

we put out. If you have questions or suggestions about policy,

editorial decisions, or coverage call the executive editor, managing
editor, or one of the news editors. Anyone is welcome to come into
our office, which is located in the University Center room 208, to
talk to an editor. h

The new, improved Phi staff is dedicated to putting out a quality
newspaper every week.

Havefun
and be careful

Your Mom and Dad have probably used similar words of
warning before, but they are just as relevant now as they were then.
Every Spring Term, W&L students flock to Goshen, Panther Falls
and other places to swim and have fun in the sun. Unfortunately,
“nature's water parks” are not without their hazards.

Such recreational areas have a dark history. Students who injure
themselves at these springtime havens often escape after minor
mishaps: a skinned knee here, a bruised am there. Others are not
so lucky. ,

The sad truth is that some of the more serious accidents could be
prevented by using common sense. Remember that alcohol and
rivers don’t mix. Most importantly, use good judgement in your
springtime excursions. The Phi would hate to have to report a
tragedy.

No More Quarters

Effective immediate1y,The Ring-tum Phi will be available to all
members of the Washington and Lee community free of charge.

. We feel that it is important that the faculty and staff , as well as the

students, be informed of campus events. The Phi will be available
at the University Center and at the Co-op. Enjoy.

Quote of the Week

“Just because he sold the most albums doesn't mean he's the
best. By that logic, rice would be the best food, Escorts would be
the best car, Muslim would be the best religion and living in China
would be really cool.'’

—a Washington & Lee student on Michael Jacksorfs claim to be
the King of Pop

    
  
    
 

/

I // /‘
/

 

WASHINGTON —— Strange thoughts beat upon
the brain. Such as: Who held the camera so steadily,
and why? ‘

In the black—and—white photograph, a naked girl,

perhaps six years old,
dangles, gripped by the

    

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1993

framed by bolted steel - the Nazi solution to the
problem of the intense heat of hard-used crematoria.
The building suggests a closed world without soft-
ness, other than that of ﬂesh. The building seems
contorted by anxiety: Angles
are odd, implying ﬁssures in

  
 
   

neck in the coarse hands
of a strong woman (we
see nothing of the woman
above her biceps). The
child, eyes closed, looks
uncomfortable but re-
signed to, and used to,
rough handling. Her face
is being wrcnched around
to face the camera. The
description of the photograph in the display in the new
Holocaust Memorial Museum reads: “A mentally
disabled girl photographed shortly before her mur-
der.”

We know the minds of the articulate haters whose
ideologies fuel mass murder. But who can fathom the
mind of the unknown photographer?

The murder of the mentally handicapped was
rehearsal for the Holocaust, the story of which is told
with cold, controlled fury in the museum's artifacts
and images. Visitors to the museum will see film (on
screens behind walls too high for children to see over)
of mob animalism and other cruelties so savage that
they seem to suck the oxygen from the room. But the
museum also tells horrifying truths with blander im-
ages.

Near the photograph of the dangling girl is a
photograph of a big building, taken from across the
tops of a town's leafy trees. It is summer, yet dark
smoke pours from the building’s chimney. The build-
ing is a euthanasia center with a erematorium. The
residents of the town had» to.know.,-. 

The'H9l°causlvMuS.<?mI i=.iﬂicts@1<ir!s1°fex<=ruci-ti’
ating knowing. Architecture is high art when the way .

it frames space compels a frame of ‘mind. The Holo-
caust Museum — the building and the experiences it
synchronizes — is a masterpiece in response to an
obscenity.

The hard, assaultive building is made of brick

- GEORGE WILL

Washington Post
Writers Group

the foundation of things. Visi-
tors have a sense of being
loomed over by stnictures evok-
ing guard towers. Arising stair-
way intimates a railroad, and
leads to an arch that insinuates
into the mind's eye the gate
over the tracks atthe Auschwitz-
Birkenau concentration camp.

Visitors begin their journey
into darkness in elevators, rising to the fourth floor
while hearing the voices of American soldiers in
Germany 48 Aprils ago.

The soldiers are saying that they have stumbled on
a horror down the road. The
elevators’ dark steel doors part
as visitors face a wall-sized
picture of charred bodies
stacked like cordwood. Thus
begins an immersion in evil,
and an encounter with hero-
ism in the face of it.

A square three-story tower
within the museum is lined
with photographs from a
Lithuanian community where
a 900-year tradition of Jewish
life was machine-gunned to
death in two days. The soaring

literature.

The Holocaust Museum
inﬂicts a kind of excruci-
ating knowing. Architec-
ture is high art when the
way it frames space com-
pels a frame of mind. The
iHolocaust Museum—the
building and the experi-
tower of strongimages of Jew- ences It SyI_‘chr_onlzes —_ ls
ishvitality suggests how much a masterpiece In response
thenuinbensixmillion under- ; r  K , ' ,  , 
.statestheloss.:Thinkof all the .  an °t'S°°n'ty" ‘
generations that will not hap-  "  '   "  ' '  ’
pen. _

Some people will wonder:
Why situate this museum, this experience of dark-
ness, amidst the Mall’s glistening monuments to the
success of our society? One answer is: Because one

I,‘ ., r.-

be deterred.

@1112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi of lice, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON — In his Tues-
day press conference, Bill Clinton
spoke with the refreshing language of
America’s first post-Cold War Presi-
dent. »
Rather than recast the Russian con-
stitutional standoff as yet another Cold
W a r r i o r ' s

much less likely to start wars. Gov-
ernments that must regularly submit
themselves to voter approval are un-
likely, it seems, to become police states
at home or troublemakers abroad.
Our third and, yes, last priority:
creating a “market economy” in Rus-

 
 
 
   

sia.

test Of U.S. It's an
‘‘f€S0lV€.’’ 38 impressive
R i c h a r d CHRISTOPHER list. not so
Nixon and muchforits
€l>JlhS0TS 01] 1:0 MATTHEWS boldness as

. . rig t . . itshumilit .
have in- Tribune Media [1 U ,1 , nyg
sisted, the SCVICCS peace be-
young PrCSi- tween our
dent put the two com]-
episode in its tries first ad-

proper post-1991 context.

The fight between President Boris
Yeltsin and his country's hold-over
Congress, he said, is a matter for Rus-
sians to decide, not Americans.

In stating his case, Clinton offered
just the right set of US. priorities
toward post-communism to Russia:
peace, democracy, free markets — in
that order.

‘ Peace is the premier issue. Russia,
under any ideology, has the resources
and temperament to be a superpower.
We have spent a half century intelli-
gently fearful of Soviet imperialism.
We don’t want to spend the next cen-
tury worried about Russian imperial-
ism.

We have a historic, if secondary,
interest in Russia adapting to democ-
racy. We know from experience that
countries likely to hold elections are

mits the truth that so many Cold War
veterans reject: Russians, at least as
much as mostcountrics, resent Amcri -
can interference in theirdomestie poli-
tics.

This is the great lesson of the Cold
War’s worst catastrophe, Vietnam.
Nothing stirs a country's latent na-
tionalism like the unwanted attentions
of a gung-ho outsider.

This is true even with loiig-term
alliances. If the World War’ ll Britain
resented our presence — “Overpaid,
oversexed, over here!" was the famil-
iar refrain — consider what the frus-
trated Russian thinks today of big-
shot America telling him what leader
he should obey, what government he
should accept, what economic system
he should pursue.

Before we offer anything else to
the Russians, we should first offer

  sec chasfis

To the Editor:

LETTERS

es Phi April Fools issue

them our respect. President Clinton
set that tone in his Tuesday press
conference when he warned Ameri-
cans against saying anythingthatmight
“undermine or rigidify" what's hap-
pening in Russian politics today.

As Henry Kissinger warned this
week: “How would Americans react
if a Russian leader were to announce
that he is backing the President in a
dispute with Congress?” ,

Ourfirst
post-Cold
 1°33 Ifthe World WarIIBrit-
ri mm ut- am resented our resence
‘g G‘ p [
f(‘“8r :”"~"; —“Overpaid, oversexed,
ec0,,0,,,y~» over here!” was the fa-
last among miliar refrain—consider
9'5‘ ‘”'°"' what the frustrated Rus-
tics. _ _ .
w h a r sian thinks today of big-
5“°““““‘“' shot America telling him
ter to this
c,,,,,,,,,, is what leader he should.
:01 , that obey, what government
USSIH ’O
caphangl, he should accept, what
but that it economic system he‘
““““5W.“Y should pursue. '
[O 21 SOCl0- '
economic
system that

works for Russia.

Unreconstructed Cold Warriors
and their nco-conservative offspring
sketch today's Russian politics in
terms of good guys and bad guys.
“Reformers” want free markets.
They're the good guys. Those who

message of the museum is that there is no permanent
safety in social arrangements. The Mall’s welcom-
ing openness and reasonable geometry make it an
-analogue of our national experience, which is the
best of the West. However, the Holocaust Museum,
by holding up for scrutiny a radical evil that erupted
in the middle of the West in the middle of the 2()th
century, reminds us that the most that can ever be
said with certainty, anywhere, is: So far, so good.
Butitalmostdiminishes the museum's dignity to
cite its usefulness. A sufficient reason for it is to
keep faith with those who suffered, by telling their
truth. This the museum does, with the power of

In 1989, l visited death camps in Poland as part
of a delegation accepting some of the artifacts now
displayed in the museum. That trip, although har-
rowing, did not prepare me for the power of this
museum, which left me literally short of breath,
suffocated by a sadness related to something Primo b

Levi wrote.

Levi was an Auschwitz
survivor. (Perhaps, in a
sense, not. In 1987, still a
prisoner of his memory and
haunted by the thought that
the world's memory ofthe

c s reflection .

I

holocaust was fading, he ’

killed himself.) Levi wrote
about the “interminable
death” that a survivor of
torture suffers.

He quoted a Belgian
Jew who survived

Auschwitz: “Anyone who 9

has suffered torture never
again will be able to be at
ease in the world.” That

A , rr1ankille‘dhimselfinl978..,

The Holocaust Mu-'

seum, experienced deeply, 4 '
will annihilate the possi-9

bility of feeling quite at ease. Be warned, but do not

© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

Clinton can't afford Russian mistakes

oppose them are the bad guys.

()ur own history shows the lie in this
argument. America’s majestic economic
abundance has come not just from free
markets alone but from a combination of
enterprises: free markets together with ac
powerful network of social welfare. We
have Social Security for retired people,
welfare for the disabled and others who
cannot fend for themselves in a capitalist

system.

Thriving capitalist

democracies such 

' Gcrmany,France,Brit-
am and the Scandina-
vian countries have
even stronger “safety
nets.”ls it wrong to ex-
pect Russians, who
have never known f recg
markets, to want a
safety net of their own
put in place before they
take the leap into free
markets?

Clinton has his pri-
orities first. Peace.
first; democracy, sec-
ond; a market
economy, last. Change
will take time coming
toRussia.Thebestcase
for American aid is

that, without it, change .
might take so long that the Russian people
will lose heart. The worst case for aid is
that American dollars give Americans the
right to tell Russians how to live. Isn't that
precisely what we accused THEM of try-
ing to do to US all those years?
©1993 Tribune Media Services

Washington and Lee has an tmderlying philosophy
of trust pervading all aspects of student life to the
White Book. In mutual trust among students there
exists free speech. According to our Constitution and
succeeding case law the April Fool's Day issue of The
Ring-tum Phi was a legally irreproachable publica-
tion. The Student Conduct Committee will respect the
Constitutional right to free speech, particularly that
greater deference accorded the press in matters of the
First Amendment.

With such overwhelming privilege, however, ex-
ists great responsibility. The Student Conduct Com-

mittee feels that the incoming editorial board for The
Ring-tum Phi should reflect on that responsibility
and consider the philosophy of trust that is the basis
for our lifestyle here at Washington and Lee. The
April Fool 's issue was designed to shock and outrage
at the expense of good taste and consideration of the
reading audience. Visitors, not to mention the student
body, at Washingtonaiid Lee that week were submit-
ted to what amounted to bar room talk that lacked any
intellectual or humorous worth. Children visiting the
campus were presented with filth that did not speak
well of the decorum of Washington and Lee students.
The 1992-93 Editorial Board should be ashamed of

its final edition.

We hope that the next April Fool's issue will
better reﬂcct the talent and creativity of journalists
on our campus. The Student Conduct Committee is
certain that there is greater ability as well as respoii— V
sibility among The Riiig—tum Phi Editorial Board. 9
We hope that the next time the Editorial Board prints
for mere shock value they will consider the mutual
trust of the Washington and Lee community and the
responsibility they have to honor that trust.

Sincerely,
The Student Conduct Committee C

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1993

LETTERS

Students disagree with Phi parody issue

To the Editor:

H We would like to take this opportu-
nity to express our unfettered disgust
with the mock Phi ofApril 1, l993.The
unchecked depravity of the articles and
ads sickens us beyond belief. We are
embarrassed to admit that this publica-
tion purports to represent our school.
Ms. Lopiccoloand Mr. Peltz have gone
so far into the realm of bad taste that we
cannot believe that they are students of
Washington and Lee, let alone the edi-
tors of the university sanctioned and
funded newspaper.

In an attempt, we suppose, to be
hgmorous and risque, the editors de-
scended into the pits of vulgarity and
depravity. This issue falls into what
any sensible person at this university
would term obscene. In addition, the
Phi violates nearly every facet of the
conduct expected of every lady and
g§]ntleman of this university. Undoubt-
e y, General Lee is spinning in his
grave at this egregious enormity.

The continuous references to sexual
intercourse and deviant forms of be-
havior offend any sensible reader, and
the better part of the food chain. Once

I

To the Editor:

How dare the editors of The Ring-tum Phi breach
any semblance of existing decency (ironically: “Erec-
tion Man” and child pornography) and flaunt their
journalistic ineptitude at my moral and ﬁnancial ex-
pense. Under the pretense of April Fool’s Day, have
the editors of a school publication the irreproachable

again the Phi has reassertcd itself as the
undisputed campus leader in ultra-
sophomoric, gutter-level humor, and
established a new nadir ofjournalistic
“ethics” (an oxymoron, apparently) for
next year’s editors to strive for.

Perhaps in search of true parody
next April, ifthe Phi is still existent at
W&L next April, the incoming editors
would be better served to model their
efforts after Jonathan Swift rather than
Larry Flynt.

Never has a better reason to re-
examine the now abandoned psycho-
logical theories of Dr. Sigmund Freud
been so succinctly encapsulated than
in this sexually frustrated drivel.

On a more speciﬁc level, we are
offended by the ﬂippant and disre-
spectful nature of the article towards
speciﬁc faculty members and espe-
cially President Wilson. lmplying that
President Wilson is some sort of hor-
monally imbalanced fiend is not only
devoid of any sense of decorum, but is
ignorant of possible damage inflicted
upon signiﬁcant others, i.e. his spouse
and loved ones.

Washington and Lee may indeed

The only justice to result from this outrage would
be for the prospective employer of an aspiring Phi
staff member to discover such a true sample of incom-
petence before making the dreadful mistake of hiring

the dilettante.

prerogative to slander faculty, airpersonal vengeance,

and abandon all protocol in language and subject?
Purporting to serve the W&L community, the Phi

Shame on y’all,

certainly committed a disservice to Admissions. Any

prospective who misfortuned across last week’ s news-
pa r hopefully - assuming admissions standards
demand a modicum of intellect - has a tarnished
impression of our college. Is there no taste or ac-
countability in journalism today  not even at W&L.

To the Editor:

Irresponsible, immature, and repulsive conduct.
Our honorable namesake would be most disappointed.

Todd 8. Cloaninger, ’95

During our four years at W&L, we have managed
to overlook the Phi’s abundance of inaccuracies and
its amateurish attempts at reporting. We cannot, how-
ever, ignore the April Fool’s issue. Along with not

have its ﬁrst case of real sexual harass-
ment, but, () Irony, the perpetrators of
this most heinous and pusillanimous
act are not the favored whipping boys
in the star chambers of Washington
Hall, fraternity males, but the Hill’s
own puppet publication, The Ring-tum
hi

If all this foofaraw over sexual ha-
rassment incessantly belched forth by
assorted deans is not invoked in this
case, it will ﬁnally be exposed as the
outright, toothless, intellectually bank-
rupt, propaganda piece that it is.

To ignore this case, in light of uni-
versity officials’ attempts to foment
others from far more innocuous and
less personally motivated circum-
stances, would be the ultimate hypoc-
risy, and if they yield, citing intended
humor, albeit feeble, they will have
provided theirown Achilles heel in any
future case of verbal or written harass-
ment: ‘‘It was supposed to be a joke.
I’m sorry.” End of case.

Does the ultimate litmus test of
sexual harassment boil down in whose
eye “humor” is held, the beholder or
the beheld? We do not envy the Deans

We point

on this one, to be sure: Damned if you
do, damned if you don’t, eh? Some
advice to the Phi editors: never is a
journalist’s credibility or code of eth-
ics more in question than when his
actions cause him to become part of
the story that he is attempting to cover
or relay. If you don’t believe us, ask
Peter Amett or Wes Sarginson.

In closing, we would like to apolo-
gize on behalf of the decent and re-
spectful students of Washington and
Lee to anyone offended by the content
of the April Fool’sedition of The Ring-
tum Phi, the”news”paper that unfortu-
nately bears our University’s name.
This unwarranted attack on the values
held by any sensible human being is
utterly reprehensible, without any ar-
tistic or journalistic merit, and is not
indicative in any way of the character
that General Lee attempted to mani-
fest within those students who studied
under him, and still manifests itself in
the vast majority of W&L students
today.

Richard C. Burke, ’93
John R. McNeer, ’93

bearing even a slight resemblance to humor, the
edition proved tasteless, crass, and offensive to all.

out that many alumni and parents of

students receive the Phi and we cringe in imagining

their reactions to some of the personal ads.

We suggest in the future - you jokester Phi
editors, you - that you keep your sexual perversions

out of print and that if you don’t have anything nice
to say, then don’t say anything at all.

Jennifer Barrows, ’93
Meredith Edwards, '93

Jerilyn Farren, ’93
Amy Myers, ’93
Melissa Naraval, ’93
Elissa Pruett, '93

Readers find fault with student's opinions

To the Editor:

GT0 be honest I was not surprised
by Justin Peterson’s letter in the
March 18 Phi, attacking the Repub-
lican Party. I didn’t read the letter by
Paul Wright to which he was re-
sponding, but I can imagine what it
said.

I want to make it very clear that
the Republican party is a very di-
verse party. It embraces people of
every race, religion, and class. More-
over, it is home to people of wildly

differing political philosophies. For —

this reason, I think that portraying the
party asa’whole as nothing more than

monolithic organization of “moral
ankruptcy” IS unfair.

I, for one, believe very ﬁrmly that
America must strive to rform a
positive role in the world. he Ameri-
can people were consistently satis-
tied with President Bush’s conduct
of foreign policy, it should be re-
mﬂmbered, and with good reason.
The Persian Gulf was a complicated
situation, to be sure. Self-interest was
definitely apartof our actions against
Saddam Hussein. But I would re-
mind Mr. Peterson that President

Bush’s rationale for involvement was
also animated by a deep sense of
Christian com assion for the Ku-
waiti people. ur reasons were not
totally pure - we admit that — but we
did do the right thing. The same can
be said of Somalia.

To sum up, I am proud to be a
member of the Republican party, a
party which was consistently seen as
“idealistic” and “humanitarian” role
for the United States in world af-
fairs. I ampfottd‘tI'ia§IIiW.tii1a€world

that--has been-positively -influenced
(on balance) by the constructive ef-
forts of members of both political
parties. In fact, I am even proud to
live in a country where narrow-
minded and insensitive attitudes to-
ward the world are quickly exposed
by decent Americans like Justin
Peterson.

The work of peace still beckons
us, and I he e that Mr. Peterson will
join those 0 us in the intemationalist
wings of both parties to see that it
gets done. I am sure that he will.

Nicholas L. Waddy, ’96

‘Sports coverage biased

. To the Editor:

I am writing in regard to the selec-
tive coverage of your sports section.
Mgre specifically, I am writing to you
about the horrible bias in what sports
get space and what get zero recogni-
tion.

Since the spring season has begun,
the baseball team has gotten ﬁrst class
coverage about their many thrilling
deffats while the Washington and Lee
go team prospers in obscurity.

I am an avid golf fan and I would
very much like to see articles about this
team which last time I checked, was

doing much better than the baseball
team. The past few times I have turned
to the sports page I have been very
disappointed because the golf team has
been neglected every time.

This angers me more than disap-
points me because you are inferring
that golf is an inferior sport, which it
certainly is not.

Perhaps you will listen to me and
pay attention to the golf team and other
neglected sports because if you do not,
you'll have one less reader or campus.

Jay Didier, ’96

To the Editor:

Mr. Peterson’s letter regarding the
“unambitious outlook” of the Contact
Committee came as quite a surprise.
He hastily fails to see beyond the names
of several of the Contact speakers, and
probably did not attend the lectures to
which he referred in his March 11
letter. Men such as Dick Vitale, Rocky
Bleier, G. Gordon Liddy, Ed Meese,
contrary to Mr. Peterson’s opinions,
have plenty to.offer-.t  

~. ,. . . Last year’s Dick v\litala.speeclLwas.t K
' one of the best" attended Contact events *'

of the year. While his speech did fre-
quently refer to sports, the main thrust
of his presentation was to promote
higher education and discourage dmg
abuse. Frivolous ideas? Wasted money?

Similarly, Mr. Bleier’s talk was also
well-attended and a truly inspiring dis-
course on overcoming adversity. If one
actually attended the speech and heard
the challenges Mr. Bleier faced, I
hardly think that one would call him a
“trivial celebrity;” I’m sure that the
thousands of Vietnam veterans would
agree.

I recognize the fact that Mr. Peterson
and others on this campus do not agree
with the ideas and outlook of G. Gor-
don Liddy or Ed Meese. That is clearly
their right, and I admire their convic-

tions. However, if they can find politi-
cal speakers with everyone in the W&L
community will agree, I suggest that
they interview for my job.

As for the general jab at the so-
called conservatism of our committee,
it is unfounded. Contact played a key
role in bringing both James Farrar and
Faye Wattleton to our campus. I do not
believe that they are conservative, but
correct me if I am wrong.

In terms -'of'educational speakers,

;_'Dor-Nerf, the producer of “Columbus
and the Age of Discovery.” He deliv-
ered an historically accurate, entenain-
in g presentation on Columbus’ discov-
ery of America. Incidentally, this
thought-provoking, educational
speaker was the worst—attended lecture
of our series.

I appreciate the concern and interest
in the nature of lectures sponsored and
co-sponsored by Contact. It pleases me
to know that many people take an inter-
est in the work that our committee does
throughout the year. However, I do not
appreciate ignorant, unfounded, biased
slander against Contact. Please get your
facts straight, Mr. Peterson.

David C. DeMilt, ’93
Contact Committee Chairman

Phi golf coverage lacking

To the Editor:

I am quite upset about your lack of
golf coverage in the Ring-tum Phi.
Not only is it a spring sport that seems
to go unnoticed, it is one of W&L’s

Spos ties up loose ends

Spos’ Space

By Tom Hespos

Mr. Solomon’s office via a clipping service. Mr. Solomon

oSo... did everybody have a good Spring Break? Good.
I’m glad. All of you beer-swigging party types probably
went to Daytona and got completely smashed. Spos spent

makes a weak attempt in his letter to purge Ernest and Julio
of my accusations regarding their conspiracy to comer the

cheap wine market.

Mr. Solomon claims that, although Gallo docs» produce
Thunderbird, it does not produce MD 20/20 or Lightning
Creek. Mr. Solomon goes on to provide historical back-

most successful athletic programs. I
would appreciate seeing some golf
coverage in the upcoming issues.

Scott Miller, ’96

    
 

Mt, My. Ilm sranveo

-Mr‘.-«Petersonb must-' have missed ‘Zvi'

l

 

PAGE 3

 

Republicans

There will be a College Repub-
licans Meeting on March 23 at 7:30
p.m. in the Mock Convention of-
fice. The debate topic is base clos-
ings.

Big Siblings

Big Brothers and Big Sisters are
needed for incoming exchange stu-
dents from Japan and Hong Kong.
Anyone interested should contact
Professor Rogers at 463-8936.

Casablanca

Have you recently checked out
the videotape Casablanca from the
University Library? Someone has
returned the case with the wrong
videotape in it. Please check to see
if you have done this and, if so,
return the correct tape as soon as
possible to the circulation desk.

Horse Center

The 6th Annual Bonnie Blue Na-
tional Horse Show will run May l2-
l5 at the Virginia Horse Center in
the newly completed indoor Horse
Center Coliseum. The show begin;
at 7:00 p.m. each night with an ad-
ditional show at 10:00 a.m. on May
I5. Admission is $4.00 for adults
and free for children 10 and under.
For further information call (703)
463-3237.

VICAP

The Virginia Insurance Coun-
seling and Advocacy Project
(VICAP) is seeking volunteers to
provide health insurance counsel-
ing services to Virginians age 60
and older. Volunteers will be trained
in May to assist clients with enroll-
ment, claims ﬁling, and decisions
about insurance policies. For more
information, contact VICAP Project
Supervisor Jodi Teitelman at (804)
225-2639.

Live Drive

Anyone interested in driving or
coordinating for Live Drive please
call Binky at 463-4917.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt

FLC

The Freshman Leadership Coun-
cil is sponsoring a three-on—one bas-
ketball tournament on Saturday,
May l.The winning team will win
Sl0(), the runner-up $50. Sign-ups
begin April 29 in frontofthc Co—op.

Triathalon

The Kappa Alpha Theta
Triathalon will be held on Sunday,
May 2. Register in front of the Co-
op April 23, 26, and 27, I 1:00 a.m.
to 1:00 p.m. The cost is,Sl5 per
individual, $36 for relay teams of
three. All participants will receive a
free T-shirt. Proceeds will go to
charity.

Kuwait Speech

Major Edward L. Bowie, ’80,
will give a lecture on his anthropo-
logical experiences while on duty
in Kuwait. He will be in Newcomb
9 tonight at 7:00 p.m. His lecture is
sponsored by the Departments of
Sociology, Anthropology. and the
International Club. Refreshments
will be served.

Humor Writers

The Phi is looking for humor
columnists. If interested please call
Richard at 463-8581, and submit a
writing sample.

  WLUR

WLUR will begin its spring se-
mesterbroadcastingschedule at6:30
a.m. tomorrow.

Letters

Letters to the editor and My
Views may be sent to The Ring-
tum Phi office in room 208 of the
University Center. Small opinion
cartoons will also be accepted. All
submissions are due Tuesdays at
noon. Anonymous submissions will
not be published. Submission:-. are
printed in the order in which they
are received.

FOC

The Freshman Orientation Commit-
tee will meet on Monday at 6:00 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center. All
members must attend.

    

 

his Spring Break installing automatic lawn sprinklers for the
Long Island elite. (For a greener, more beautiful lawn, call
Greenway Lawn Sprinklers at (516)653-4600!) The work
was a pain in the butt, but at least I have money for Foxﬁeld.

.Things have been hectic lately. The FAX transmissions
have been piling up at Spos
Central Command to the point

ground on Thunderbird. Here’s an excerpt:

“The Thunderbird introduction in the mid-l95()’s in-
cluded television advertising featuring Sebastian Cabot,
Tab Hunter, Caesar Romero and James Mason... Their
appeal did not extend to Skid Row.”

Sheah...right!
Please, Mr. Solomon,

‘of being declared hazards to
aviation by the FAA. Soplease
allow me to get some of this
stuff out of the way.

.,First, Spos would like to
sincerely thank those rising
seniors who voted for him in
the recent election for class
president (all l4of you). Any-
way, the masses have spoken.

Sheah...right! Please, Mr. Solomon,
explain why several self-respecting ce-
lebrities would endorse a wine that costs
about as much as a roach motel and
tastes like battery acid. Because they
got paid. That’s why.

explain why several
self -respectin g celebri -
ties would endorse a
wine that costs about as
much as a roach motel
and tastes like battery
acid. Because they got
paid. That’s why.
Also, Gallo may not
directly produce MD

Congratulations to Bill

Chappell, whose margin of

vigtory in the election was nothing short of embarrassingly
massive. Spos now realizes that running on the “better
senior party” platform may not have served his interests in
the optimal way. So what if the rising senior class would
rather have a smoothly-running student government than a
senior party blowout complete with 147 kegs and Guns ‘N’
Roses. It’s their choice.

‘Secondly, Spos recently received a brief note from one
Daniel T. Solomon, communications director for Ernest &
Julio Gallo Winery in Modesto, California. It seems that a
copy of Spos’ column on cheap wine had found its way to

20/20 or Lightning
Creek, but my sources
in New York maintain that Gallo indirectly owns the coni-
panies thatdoproduce them. You can't fool the Sposmeister.

All kidding aside, Spos would like to thank Mr. Solomon .

for his kind letter, which he closes by inviting Spos to raise
a glass of wine together. One of these days, Mr. Solomon,
we will drink together. You will understand if Spos brings
his own wine selection, I hope.

To conclude this week ’s column, Spos would like to wish
everyone a fun-ﬁlled exciting weekend. Just remember,
Foxﬁeld can be fun, even if you don't get to see the horses.
I'll see you there. Tallyho!

   

    
  
 

We swvttfve vuaucwr
0‘ ‘nus Fins-1'} @3591

MW 70 Fwsu arr -rnxsrs.’

   

A;-ran A HNJD DAVE WORK
OF ETHNIC C.LEN~l.'>lNG

  
   

Docuwzo: To THOSE wuo MAV twreopnrr THI5 A5 ANOTHER ANT:-Mtttmw
t_iaEaAt_ BLEEDING-HEART CAQTOON: Ger A CLUE

©1993, Todd Peacock, The Northern Iowan

 

 

PAGE 4

By MEG KINDER and JEANNE BRIGGS
of the Ring-tum Phi

B y this time, most students at Washington and Lee
have had the chance to hear Southern Comfort and Jubilee,
our all-male and all-female a capella groups. They have

given a number of entertaining and high-spirited perfor- V

mances throughout the year.

But many students may not be aware that there is a third
co-ed a capella group called General Admission which was
founded this year by freshmen Gretchen Hall and Phaedra
Cianciulli.

twice a week throughout winter term.

A Hall and Cianciulli share responsibility for the group;
Hall works on the business end, making arrangements and
dealing with the administration, while Cianciulli handles
the musical aspect. The groups’s faculty advisor is Ms.
Courtney Birch.

The group has prepared a wide variety of songs ranging
from folk to spirituals to alternative groups such as They
Might Be Giants for their upcoming concert, which will take
place on Wednesday, April 28th at 8 p.m. in the GHQ.
General Admission will bejoined by the Virginia Bells and
the Hullabahoos, the all—female and all-male a capella
groups from UVa.

An unusual aspect of General Adrnission’s performance
is that they incor-

Hall and Cianciulli orga-
nized the group, which cur-
rently has seven women and g
six men, because they saw
the need for a vocal group _
that combined women and
men.

“The all-male and all—fe-
male groups on campus are
very good, and we thought it
was just as likely that a co-ed
group can do as well,”

porate comical
skits along the
lines of Saturday
Night Live and
Monty Python
into their reper-
toire.

Hall stressed
the emphasis that
the group places
on fun. “We
wanted to get to-

Cianeiulli said. ,
“There are some things gem” fmd Smg
that are harder to accomplish ‘_h° mus“? ma‘ we
musically with a single sex 1‘k°’a“d “ Snbcen
group, though the groups on 3 1,0‘ 0f fun’ She
campus do very well,” 5a‘d- she 315° 3*’
Cianciulli said. “A co-ed pressed the hope

group has a wider range of
voices, from soprano to
bass.”

Hall said, “We wanted to
offer something different.
We wanted to give more of
an opportunity on campus for students to be a part of an a
capella group.”~

Hall and Cianciulli patterned the new group after similar
groups at other universities and colleges such as the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania and the University of Virginia.

Hall and Cianciulli held auditions before Winter break,
and the singers that were selected have been rehearsing

  

General Admission rehearses for Tuesday’s concert

that General Ad-
mission will de-
velop into a well
respected and im-
portant part of
W&L culture.
Cianciulli said, “T he music’s been a lot of fun, and it’s
also been great getting to know everyone. We have a
diverse group of people that has really come together.”
The members of General Admission are Jennifer Fern,
Kate Wood, Allyson Gardner, Kim Gartrell, Gretchen Hall,
Robin King, Phaedra Cianciulli, Rob Neel, S.R. Evans,
Shaf Holden, Peter Dishman, Tom Keman, and Colin

Wynne. L

A

I’Iiolo Iiy Bethany Smith, The Ring-Iwn Phi

 

gm‘ 9”” 

11 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

Robby Jones I '
~ r(...7.‘»’«3-.)..«fi.‘7’.3f."’-‘3—+°-Z A

  
 

    

23  Main St.
Lexin ton, VA 24450

     

 

/

K

2.»...

MEANS LOW PRICES

 

25% OFF SALE
TYSON JUMBO PACK

 

 

LB.    

U.S.D.A. IE
ma EYE ROAST on

RIB EYE

 
    
    
 

DRUMSTICKS it  1;  "
OR THIGHS  v

 

STEAK  ta.

    

 

      
 

‘_ n
J .i
:

.r._3‘
U.S.D.A.
CHOICE

5 LB. BAG WHITE POTATOES OR

. BAG
YELLBLOW ONIONS

EACH

 
 

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 LITER

   

 
   
 
 
   

REDUCED

 

FEATURES

New co-ed group sings, performs

All Wint‘erfMe'rc‘handise ,-
50% Oﬁ”

  
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1993

Am I Bisexual?

Student questions sexuality after homosexual encounter

future plans for commitment are with women mean you
are squarely in the heterosexual end of the continuum.
Unless" you begin more regularlyexperiencing gay sex I
couldn't even describe you as bisexual.

Perhaps the experience you have had can be instruc-
tive. In the first place it may take you past labels and
stereotypes. More than that it may empower you to see
beyond homophobia and to embrace a vision of sexual
orientation which views diversity in terms other than a
good-bad or right-wrong dichotomy. The fact that you
don’t find homosexuality totally disgusting may make
this easier for you.

One thing you need to bear in mind is that given your
orientation you can choose not ever again to have a same
sex experience and not to be troubled by that option.
Were you one of the 6-9 percent who are homosexual,
such an outcome would not be possible. In that situation
your only options would be living as a gay man or being
celibate and denying your essential personhood.

There is one cautionary note. Are there other things
that have happened as a result of drinking that worry you
or that you would not have done were you sober? If the
answer is yes you may wnat to moderate somewhat your
relationship with beverage alcohol. This is not to say
stop drinking or partying, just an invitation for some
self -reﬂection in that department.

The issues of sexual behavior, sexual
orientation and confidence in one’s mas-
culinity/femininity are important all
through life but especially critical dur-
ing the college years. If you or any
other reader would want to discuss this
in person with me please feel free to
make an appointment through Mrs.
Calkins (ext. 8590).

The Ask Dr. Worth column can only
continue if questions are sent to me.
You can write methrough the U.S. mail
system, slip an envelope undermy wait-
ing room door, or give a letter to Mrs.
Calkins (who will treat it and you with
total confidentiality). Future columns
really depend on student responses.

Ask Dr. Worth
by Dr. James Worth

After a prolonged absence this column is returning
in response to a letter received near the end of last term,
too late for an article until now. The letter, which is
abbreviated, went as follows:

. Dr. Wonh:

During my sophomore year, I messed around
with a buddy of mine when we were drunk. When I
woke up the next moming I couldn’t explain it.

I have always considered myself to be
heterosexual...l have had sex about 30 or 40 times with
a total ofabout 8 women...I know l’m not gay because
I don’t really fantasize about guys but l’m not really
disgusted by it either. .

To what degree do you think guys try this sort
of thing out some time or other? Also, just because
someone messes around with someone of the same sex
a few times, does that mean they are bisexual?

A. [fl were youlwouldn’t

worry too much about your sexu-
ality. Approximately 20 percent
of all males have had at least one
encounter leading to orgasm with
another guy, yet we know that
only about 6-9 percent of the
male population is homosexual.
Clearly a lot of men, probably
for a wide variety of reasons,
have experimented brieﬂy with
gay sex.

The fact that your best and by
far your most frequent sexual
experiences have been with
women, that your fantasies are
associated with women, and that (apparently) your

 

 ‘.19.;-'  s

    

\

 

Valley‘ 

A Hardware, Paint and Related Items

'0;  

 

(703) 463-5983 Sun. 1_-5 p.m.

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.—6 p.m. A
463-2186

E. Nelson St., Lexington

 \

\

A

 

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

NACHO OR COOL RANCH 
  WORK AT DORITOS TORTILLA I
THE BEACH! 171
HUNTER FARMS
ORANGE

CHIPS ..................... ..9 oz.
JUICE .................... ..64 oz. 0 97

RED OR ORANGE
ASSORTEDIVARIET/ES 
TONYS 2/5

   

FRUIT JUICY. ................. -9 PK.

OUR MYRTLE BEACH
~ AND HILTON HEAD
:g'9"‘~., LOCATIONS ARE

if NOW HIRING FOR
 '4'’ THE SUMMER.

IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILTON

   
   
 

    
   

HAWAIIAN PUNCH
PIZZA ................ ..l5-l 7 oz

HEAD LOCATIONS OR MAIL
» . \

APPUCA-I-.9” -I-O: ;“ CREAMY OR EXTRA CRUNCHY

IIE PEANUT
BUTTER

IMI59

       
  
  

JERRY ALLEN '-" I
HARRIS TEETER, INC. ‘~-.
LITCHFIELD LANDING
SHOPPING CENTER
ROUTE 2, BOX 288
LITCHFIELD, S.C. 29585

HEIIISTBBIBI
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK!

ALBERTO vO5
SHAMPOO OR
CONDITIONER

04

I5 oz.

REGULAR OR LIGHT
BREYERS
ICE CREAM

HALF
GALS.

  
 

2

SELECTED
VARIETIES

 

Prices Effective Through A n’! 20, I993

Prices In This Ad Eiteclive Wednesday, April I4 Through Tues ay, April 2 , I993. In Lexin ton Stores
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To DeaIer< We Gladly Accept F eral I-ood Stamps.

‘-1’ -it -

 

  
 
  
    
    
     
       
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
    

D .
the Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1993

 

FEATURES

       
 

   

I
 &L honors native son Sam Houston cotonnadecrossword
s
ACROSS 
——:-j . . . m Wcnncsscc at me ‘ Zggnfg 3 W9
B JEANNE BRi(;(;g Sam Houston began his political career as e governor_o ‘ ' _ _ _
y PM i.~e.3ni,.e.S Bonn, early age of thtrty—six, and went on to be elected as. the first president of the 1g$f;'B9't‘:3ﬁ'Ia°"°“
Republic of Texas. Houston was an ardent Unionist who refused to swear 14 Ado,“
S allegiance to the Confederacy, and because of this he was deposed as govemor 15 poker holding
arnHouston,soldier, Of TCXEIS "1 1361-. “ . o  g3g,:'a"’:’ne
Siaiesinan, and fromicirsmmi’ Dr. Houston said, The greatest thing about Sam Houston was that he refused 18 Funny Johnson _
was born iighi how in to let”Texas secede. He thought the South would lose and slavery was past its  h,1eoei,|ed sinooihiy
Rockbridge County. The UmC- . _ 7’ _ “ 7 _
man besi known no iho ﬁrsi “He was a real interesting character, Houston said. He stood 6 2, and in the SE ggghhofiﬁgn '5,
presidentand ftrstU.S.Sena- 1700 5 hC W113 11 h€Ok Of 3 13” g‘_1)’_- _ ‘ 26 Bent over 
in, of Texas iiveii in inc Dr. Houston commented that it is unfortunate that students in school study ihe 27 Preprar'i1ngh"d as
Shenandoah vaiiey jug[ revolutionary war and then skip to the civil war, missing a very exciting period  831:5 0 
nonh of Lexingion for me of history. “From 1773-1860 the entire character oi the country changed, and 33 Tamanze
first ﬁfteen years of his lifc_ Sam Houston was partly responsible for that, he said. _ ' . 35 Pig _ mode .5,
Honsion is inc Snbjooi of Houston’s personal life was no less exciting than his professional life. He  fI;l:rr:1e"g‘;;>‘<:1mnery w.._,
a new biography by Marshall married three times, always to much younger women. His first wife mysteriously man _»,:,
Degnihi iiiieo Sword ofsan left him only eleven weeks after they were married, and Houston subsequently 40 pan of 3 shin "
Jacinto.‘/1 Life of Sam Hous— Fcslghcd lhc gOVCmOY5h1P Of TOT)‘ 2; E-d2"::"1°b'°5 u_._;
i0,i_ The book chronicles nessee and fled to the west to his 43 Sgy hum“ an
Houston’s life from his C_h°f0_k€C fflchdsg There he mar‘ 44 Male turkey @1993 _Tribune Media Services. Inc. 04/22/93 .._;._
hnmbie beginnings in Vii- ried his second wife, the niece of 45 Pleads A" "'9’“9 “°‘°"'°° Y S Puzzle solved: .,;;.;
gmia [0 his adventures on Ch1cfO91clcka' Al age fony-S-IX 47 it<>lanrc<ior‘r)tfeter 7 Pitcher handles 7\'i‘:"
the frontier in Tennessee and he mafflﬁd 8 W0mﬂh 1W°h_l)/"SIX 51 Helps 3 Quotas 3;,
the Arkansas Territory, his X0315 )’O_Uh89T» WhO SW9 hmh to 52 Love affairs 9 Formal account
I 2. . military Gamer under An_ eight children during their mar- 54 lrfeflagstcres :l1)Echv<av:s;‘pé<:réek of ._"nn
'  drew Jackson, and his tu- T1380 _ , 58 cnieinx a ship ,~,.,~_.
1‘ 0' - i . multuous 1301111081 life 3S Aumfhme °fH°u5‘9"_ §deam 59 Article in a 12 French river .~.:;.
 niesioeni of Texas_ he was ignored and villified by newspaper '1?FinISi’;16d I Zion
; The book was piibiisiied _ those whose independence he  'C33g;6e|'rt\:>ef;lr$IS 33 ﬂzeehnhg 0995 5:;
on Texas independence Day won, but he was soon acknowl— 63 Shakespearean quantity .
" and the zoom anniversary of edged kllvyihts fe110(\1~ Tchclanfs [ahnd 64 hanging W 3; Celrogltieyinprison no
uston’s birth. DeBruhl’s book isthesecond to bepublished this year. The first IO 3)’ 015 TCYOIC 35 9 3 er . . ._:‘J':
s Sam Houston: /1 Biography of the Father of Texas by John Hoyt Williams. Of Texas and 115 8Tf_3a1€5l h€rO-  ‘,{,,"§£§§‘;" 28 ‘,",,’§§2§,’§§s ;,~,.,-‘.
After leaving Rockbridge County upon the death of his father, Houston lived DR HOl151Oh PO1m€d .0111 lhal mistake 29 Elevator man _,,h_.;
a frontiersman among the Cherokee Indians for many years. He was the h1OT€ HOUSlOhS haVO graduaﬁed 57 Le-93' PBPGFS . 33 glglgg ghggmbat _.-_-~ ;«
pted son of Chief Ooleteka and a full citizen of the Cherokee nation, and his fYOm W&L than ah)! Other famh)’ DOWN 35 opera 50,0 no/22/93 ,_;i.e-iv
o rience with the Cherokee made him a passionate defender of Indian rights h3mC- He Séhd than the belh)’ Of 1 in addition 35 spoils or war ,;o.,
lateﬂife. Lee Chapel is named for a Hous— § Ear Ipagt . r  grain’ bregigds ,i,n,.;-
. As a soldier Houston fought in the War of 1812 under Andrew Jackson, and 1011 WhO W35 ah Chglheerlhg PTO‘ 4 Pgggf minis 40 Pfgrhiﬁenm 47 wan hanging 55 Raise” d._ ; V
blished the independence of Texas in 1836 in an astonishing victory over f€SS0F at W&L- _ sening 42 Eann saieiiiie 43 Not a soiii 55 Hoiiow Siam 1.13.»;-
I ta Anna and the Mexican Army at San J acinto. m lV1I(arshatl)1 l[DeSBrulI1{l vvsltloln  E .. . H‘ 5 Holds din high 23<S:\ovr;1£i;anded ﬁg Ggilggatgg stage 23 fﬂaasrtriglgnes r;.'f‘f
Dr. Charles Houston, a descendent of Sam Houston who resides in e SD93 lhg 3 Oh am Oh i 1 l'993f_ , , ,  
anoke area, said, “The battle of San Jacinto was the seventh most important 1-35 Chapel Oh T’~1€5df1)’rAP“127 DeBruh| 6 watermg place 46 Tmy — 53 char woman 5 We rr:.,._;.si
tie in history. It changed all of Texas, New Mexico, and California from a18P~Yh- The Speech 15 SPOh5OTed 4
anislhspeaking to English speaking. Houston managed to lose only seven men by COhl3C‘- =;r:_«,3
ile defeating thousands of Santa Anna’s men.” . '..«_.=;r
J
L ..............................  -------------  - :
  « Four Bedroom house for rent 2 “"“
Barn Apartment for Rent For Sale . 5
t . . I ‘—“—‘ for next school year 5 -«
For two people in a private facility. 1990 Mustang Convertable LX 5.0 5
. . . Call 463-5383 =
talls, individual turnout, use ofa ring, R/ihtrbg C‘_rreen,1>lfVg)1(1)t(§t0i31& Lleather, ......................  ....................................  it
' . _ . . . tions, , m1eS,a ways - - T:
Jumps and trails. Price negotiable. p Immediate Opening For Students to :
, . garaged AS heW- Post Flyers 3
- 3-UL - P-m- Y on Campus. a ana a
, 1-800-592-2121 ext. 131 _.
school teacher desiiiesto V " ’ ‘ . . . .  --~ -Ls
adopt a baby. Financially secure. -. ~
‘ Cari provide loving & fun family. A
Call collect 804-572-8403 or ,
write P. O. Box 655. South Boston.
VA 24592. '
GHQ RESTAURANT F
SPRING TERM - , - .
or Florida Spring Break
LUNCH & DINNER BUFFET ‘ 7nightsBeachfront$119—149
Deadline soon. i

 

 We [C Ome g ac K!
and

have a QRT/‘ZIT
pring Term

 

” OUR NEW MENU SELECTIONS!

Medicine can affect your balance, co-

LUNCH: I1 :30 A./W. - 2 :00 RM. ordination, and vision as much as
alcohol. After drinkingor taking med-
- ' ' . d ‘ ‘rt .rti '
DINNER: 5:30 PM. - 7.-oo RM. ii’.i‘fi§’J;r .:i:1;t.:....;i:..
. MUTUHCYGLE SAFETY FUUNDITIUN to

 
 
  
     
  

,“ g.'h_\ \‘g1."’  ‘ ' ' ' 7 ‘-
z. '

‘t

   
  
     
      
   
  

_ seiécriori’ iitiee will beatt ,

_ A-comrnuiiiity ‘tserviiceb activities tli

 
  

‘U\‘ 'IUl,_Q.‘§'5 oD"__..n'

  
 

I -inldividufals orhgroupis who "have ._ cc ,c_
’ overfa pe_rio‘djof time;   r ‘

4_? 
4-.

|l,.I,O.\l.0a' .0 ”“' ' Vv'v‘9 313$“?

'J-“.~“ a-«§e.e- -- 4 . A .. -A~>~ .F».V»t‘
-...-‘......-.~.-...-.. ..r. .. .. ,...~.................. ..-.--...,-........»..-.-

——The 5/‘Z193

  

the-an innovative or-clreative project I
invdivievduals or; groups who re hown theabilit

othérstop rf  comrniinity.s vi

      
   
 
  

.. Vese areillu _  of the efforts we is
basic criterion is evi nceof an unseilfishiis 1:-of-. V
If _y0L_li‘WOl.lid like to_noniinateV:osoiiteone r .o'i'ne ~-
Dean ’RLft'SCiO, ODK FacLilty.S'ecr'etary,‘inthe C In _e_

Roberson ‘93, Chair of the Selection Conimittee. before‘ Fri ,
..vijrill, be announced at the: Spring ODK ind:uett.on. ere ony, S
Ehapd : ‘_ . . i _ V .v

  
  

  

   
 

.- Va 4“-K.» -
‘:53-
-.-- -. \‘§\ ---\-.....-.-..-.—.-.-q...—.-.,._»..-....-.~..-..-............ .. ..... .. .... . .. . . -

  

LAST WEEK:
Baseball —— W&L 2, Hampden—Sydney 14

WTennis —— W&L 9, Sweet Briar 0

MTennis — W&L 2, MIT 7

Golf— Jimmy Kull won Shipbuilders Invitational
MLax — W&L 17, Harnpden Sydney 6

PAGE 6

Washington & Lee’s women’s
tennis team completed the regular
season on Tuesday with a 9-0 win at
Sweet Briar College. The Generals
play for their third consecutive con-
ference title this weekend at Sweet
Briar. The women finished with a
14-4 overall record and were a per-
fect 8-0 in the ODAC.

The Generals only less in their
last nine matches came against Di-
vision II power Armstrong State.
Sophomore Marilyn Baker is 14-3
on the season. Of her losses, two
came versus players ranked among
Division III’s top seven and the
other was against Armstrong State.

The men's lacrosse team is still
on pace for an ODAC season—end-
ing showdown with Roanoke Col-
lege. The Generals kept their con-
ference mark perfect on Tuesday
witha 17-6 win atHarnpden-Sydney
College. Senior Wiemi Douguih
scored a career high seven goals,
one short of the school record.

Douguih had five goals in the
first quarter the l lth-ranked Gener-
als went out to a 7-0 lead. Douguih
has a team—leading 29 goals for the
season. Scott Mackley netted three
for W&L, who are now 8-2 overall,
4-0 in the ODAC.

During the Spring Break, the
Generals romped Virginia Wesleyan
(29-1) and Haverford (16-5) before

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

falling in a heart-breaker to 5th-
ranked Washington College, 12-
10. W&L had led 7-5 at halftime,
but WC broke a 10-10 tie with 6:()7
to play for the win. Senior David
Lefkowitz scored four goals for the
Generals, three in the second hall’.

Washington & bee will host
Guilford on Saturday at 2 p.m. on
Wilson Field. A victory will likely
mean that W&L and Roanoke will
both be undefeated in conference
play when they meet at Wilson Field
on Saturday, May 6, to decide the
ODAC championship.

The women ’s lacrosse team also
had a big win on Tuesday, beating
Hollins College, 21-4.

Senior Lisa Dowling could have
done the job by herself. She scored
11 (Yes, E—L-E-V-E-N!) goals to
shatter her own school record, pre-
viously eight. Dowling has 65 goals
on the season. That’s 20 more than
the school record she had set last
year.
The women are 10-2, 6-0 in
conference action, and are ranked
14th in Division III. The Generals
fell back in the rankings from sev-
enth after consecutive defeats in
New York last week. W&L lost 12-
10 to Hartwick and 17-8 at William
Smith.The fomrer endeda 12—game
win streak for W&L which dated
back to last year.

For Rent:

4 B.R. home, 3 B.R. home,

1 B.R. duplexapt. Call Mike
Flint at Whiteside Realty 463-1187

_._.j.____——.

Dear Abby,
I had

i In Lexington, available June 15 I
I
I

two brothers.
Hampden-Sydney College and the other went to the
electric chair. Now I have met a nice girl and we plan
to be married. My problem is should I tell her about my

 

One of them went to

brother who went to Hampden-Sydney?

We all have our problems, but CRAFTSPLUS
can solve yours when it comes to crafts and

hobbies.

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES
31 South Main Street, Lexington 463-3355

    

Help Wanted

Position Title: Annual Fund Staff Associate
Department: Office of University Development
Reports To: Director of the Annual Fund

Job Duties/Qualifications: This position assists
in the development and management of strategies
to increase involvement in the financial support of
Washington and Lee through the Annual Fund, a
2.3 million plus effort providing direct support to
the Univerity’s operating budget. The term of the
position is one year, renewable for a secondyear,
with preference given to recent W&L graduates.
This entry-level position requires excellent
written and verbal skills, an ability to work within
an organized schedule of specific deadlines, and a
willingness to travel and work some evenings. A
working familiarity with data retrieval and
computers is a plus. A Bachelor’s degree is also
required.

Direct resumes, along with a letter of interest

  
     
       

S

C1112 King-tum iﬁlri

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK & FIELD

M&WTrack —— ODAC championships
at Bridgewater .

Golf— ODAC Championship in
Richmond

APRIL 22, 1993

Baseball team hits rocky road

Generals are outscored 73-24 in last seven games

By Kl-Il‘l'll GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Now that Mother Nature is through
having fun with the Washington and
Lee athletic schedules, itis theplayer’s
turn to wreak havoc on what were the
Fields of Streams.

The baseball team got back to work
immediately after winter term exams,
playing eight games in ten days. Tues-
day, the team dropped their seventh in
a row, 14-2 at Hampden-Sydney.

Starting pitcher Bates Brown had
the Generals in the game through the
firstfive innings, trailingjust4—0. How-
ever, the Tigers sank their teeth into
W&L’s hurlers and put six runs on the
board in the sixth to seal the game in a
hurry.

Freshmen Matt Ermigiotti relieved
Brown and classmate Greg Pope threw
the final two innings.

The crushing blow was a grand,

slain by Hampden-Sydney’s Mark
Hazelwood. Taylor Rhodes went 4-
for-5 for the Tigers.

Senior captain Jon Hesse had three
hits in five at bats for the Generals,
lifting his season batting average to a
career high .333.

Sophomore Geren Steiner had two
hits for W&L. Steiner and Hesse are

amongthe five W&L regulars batting
above .300.

With the defeat, Washington and

Lee drops their record to 4-10, 3-8 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence.
_ After a double-header split with St.
Mary’s College last week, W&L was
4-4 overall, 3-2 in the ODAC. Fresh-
man Graig Fantuzzi earned his team-
high third win in the opener, an extra-
inning 12-11 victory.

However, the Generals dropped the
second game 12-1 to begin the present
losing streak.

W&L has been outscored 73-24 in
the last seven games. The toughest
defeat was an 8-7 loss at Bridgewater
in 11 innings, the Generals’ longest
game this season.

The team’s offensive and pitching
numbers are much better than last
year’s, when they went 4-21, 1-15 in
the ODAC.

The previous two games have been
very sobering, though. They have been
outscored 23-2. The last time their
opponnents were held to fewer than
seven runs was the fifth game of the
season.

The Generals host that team,
Lynchburg College, Thursday at Smith
Field. They then face a pivotal test this
weekend, playing back-to—back double-

Swim Lessons - $20 3 393510"

ff ed ' 8 I Is of classes from beginner to lifeguard at the
$5/%§1r.aIr3]iii:r)er€sIty  Rggistration April 24 at 10 a.m. on pool balcony.
First session April 26-30. Second session lyzlay  to go to
charity. For further information call Paige emi ar .

   
  

130 S. Main St.

   

ndale -. - Di1k i
Jansport daypacks and book bags A
Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.-Flri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

  
 
    

463-7969

 

the W&L campus. $150
month for the unit.
— Great Location

Apartment for Rent

Catering to W&L Students — Two—bedroom apartment for
rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk from
per month, per bedroom. $300 per

—— Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet
— Landlord Pays for Water, Including Hot Water

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown,
at 463-3013.

 ‘arterie-

Resumes v Cover Letters
Come see us -- we’ll

Three months till summer; do you have ajob?

- Flyers - Copies - Binding

make you look good!

PHONE: 463 - 1712

125 W.. NELSON STREET - LEXINGI‘ ON - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

- FAX: 463-6918 IQI

"F

Fitzhugh Lee
M. Miley

iiiiiimniis

W&L E Art
1870 Washington College Diploma
signed “ '

Signatures:

Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored ‘
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

ﬂ

R.E. Lee"

R.E. Lee, Jr.
John Letcher

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 464-6464

headers. The double header will begin

on Saturday with W&L hosting Raiidolph-Macon College to make up
the two games they were scheduled to
play when the Blizzard of ’93 hit.

Guilford College for a pair of confer-
encc games

‘ File Photo
A W&L pitcher prepares IO let IOOSG a pItCI'I IO the plate. W&L’s
pitching has been revived this year, With a marked improvement

from last year's numbers.

 

Breakfast BuffetFriday & Saturday
Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
All-U—Can Eat $4.99
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m.to 2
p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99

Wednesday Night BBQ Night -choice of
potato & vegatable

1/2Rack -$5.99 WholeRack- $10.95
Saturday Night Prime Rib
Queen Cut $11.95 King Cut $13.95
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served
24 hrs. a day.

4 miles North on Route 11
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice and

S h e 1 1
 81  Furniture Dealers 3
For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington 463-2742 '

TGIF

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount.
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive . g
merchandise from America ’s‘ most famous mail '
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear.’ A

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - re ly $18 -
Now $3 .00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters - '
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington _:
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)

to Robert W. Fox, Director of Personnel I‘ 1O(§".:,r_1,,1Y_I‘3r_‘5d,§3(') ',;§;‘,?“’°‘aY Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
Services. k J - I ’ ' ‘ J 703-463-9730
t-- _ mm _ -..'.,.,.‘;;_. __".';;':;...... '
Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? , STUDENT SERVICESg.BOX 1792ll.PLANTATION.FL 33313 ' audiotronics
_ p L f ‘ 0 '| ’ ’ ‘I AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR srmso
'o\.ES$a\E“cE 2:;.r°.‘:.:::.:::.°.*:::’.:.:.ic:..":.°::.:.°°.:s::::£.::.*: . YES! xwmzwsao/msrsnmnvec-d«t -  
5“ PE credit cards.."ln ur name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN 3 Cards. Enclosed find $f5 which is 100% refundable lino I ADCQM . Agpirqg
yo
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEPOREIL . approved ,mmed,a,e,y_ . | _ TOSHW, MARAN-,2
VISN9 and Mastcrcardo the credit cards you I A 3 SCEJZTON S2/F?Nn.|VE _
dcscnie and need l'or— lD—BO0KS--DEPARTg1§rNT | NAME I » KUPSCH BAZOOKA
S'l‘0RES-—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNM -— I
EMERGENCY cmsH—TicKEis—REsTAuRAms— : ADDRESS , I f,§‘,§,g’,§E,,'§,§,’*,’;‘3,§-,‘,‘,’;,*’,’.‘,’j,°,,'*“"
L _ HO,TELS—MOTELS-GAS-CAR RENI'ALS—- ' _, " ZIP ' 2 CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
.- C _ REPAIRS-AND TO BUILD voun CREDIT RATING! : CITY STATE —- ————— l , msgggggwggwgs
. I. . ' ' , - ‘ I 0V
V V   '  K  ' MASTERCARDIVISA/DSC ER
SERV'\CES, II ' 60*" C.» No credit I SIGNATURE I ' (300) 4596567: I
I L  §\‘ ° ' | I I ' Corner ofOgden8iStarkey Road; I
~ ml“ 9|‘ No security denosit. NO!EMnslcrCIIdIsIrc¢BtcIeduIdennrIidMasteI(hrdln&md|otIllnc. mo in an 6w 3
. ' , ':._5,,;nI';‘::-4 0°‘ I Visa nu registered uIdcuIrkol‘VlSAl1SA. in¢~.-nivrsnimm-uomt _ I ‘;‘;5°' °';de9nTR°:',_ 3.?" 219"
_ g ' Approval absolutely guaranteed S0 ' Sci-vlazs Auncldlon. 100% °uAR‘N-teal” I __
._d,_.,,rcq . L___________,_______________,g

  

Sunday, the Generals will travel to

 

