 

 

we umvsasmj L%f3RARY ;.,.
WASHINGTON & LE5; u.\'lVER$l’fY

“W ”'z¥"i3’3“35°

lit ‘ilting-tum Iﬂlii

VOLUME 92, NO. 13

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

ACrul cracks down on keg part

it

‘The new ABC regulation makes it a crime to purchase a keg from which minors will be drinking.

MTV dumps
Rock-a-Like

Share, a similar organizatie r..

Photo by Malloi'y‘Meyers, e Fling-rum Ph

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee students
who purchase kegs for parties
where minors are drinking could
end up in jail under a new Vir-
ginia ABC regulation that goes
into effect Jan. 13.

Virginia Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board Officer Roger
Stevens said the new regulation
obligates anyone buying a keg at
a retail outlet to register the keg
and give the address where the
keg will be tapped.

The purchaser must fill out a
‘ ‘keg registration, declaration and
receipt” which includes a state-
ment that he is at least 21 and that
no minors will be allowed to drink
from the keg.

“Should we come to a party
and find a keg and underage
drinkers,” Stevens said, ‘ ‘wewill
have the name of the purchaser
and they can be charged” with
contributing to the delinquency
of a minor. That crime, a misde-

meanor, carries a punishment of
up to a $2,500 ﬁne and one year
in jail.

Stevens said the new regula-
tion will allow ABC ofﬁcers to
locate parties whereminors might
be drinking.

“We can check keg registra-
tion lists and see if there is a large
number of kegs going toacertain
fraternity,’ ’ he said.

East Lex owner Jim Bowen
said he does not believe the law
will affect the way W&L stu-
dents purchase beer. The regula-
tion, Bowen said, will mainly be
used by police to trace kegs at
parties attended by teens.

“I think they’re trying to tar-
gethigh schoolers,” Bowen said.
“I can’t say that it’s going to
have much of an effect on stu-
dents.’ ’

But Stevens said anyone who
buys a keg under the new regula-
tion is responsible for making
sure that no minors are served.

EC President Josh
MacFarland said the new regu-
lation brings up the remote pos-

JANUARY 7, 1993

ies

sibility of an honor violation for
students who make a keg avail-
able to minors after signing a
pledge that they will not. But
MacFarland said he would be
‘ ‘very hesitant’ ’ to kick a student
out of school for failing to com-
ply with the regulation.

‘ ‘In general, I would hesitate
to say what is and what is not an
honor violation without looking
at a speciﬁc case,” MacFarland
said.

The Associated Press reported
Monday that a squad of specially
trained officers in Virginia Beach
was formed to respond to com-
plaints of under-age drinking.
The squad busted 10 parties in
the Virginia Beach area over the
recent holiday season.

LillianDeVenny, head of Vir-
ginians Opposing Drunk Driv-
ing, said she is excited about the
new regulation.

‘ ‘It certainly should put a big
dent in those notorious keg par-
ties," DeVenny said.

TheAssociatedPres.r contrib-
uted to this story.

Students
shun’93

0 By JUSTIN MACNAWL
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s na-
tional lip sync dynastyhas ended.
After crowning two W&L
 piOnS in the last three years,
V has withdrawn its sponsor-
ship of the national Students
Against Multiple Sclerosis
(SAMS) Rock-a-Like contest.

2' But the beat will go on at
W&L under adifferentnarne and
serving an additional cause.

ffhe lack of sponsorship pro-
vided an opportunity for SAMS
sponsor Jerry Darrell and chair-
men Ashley Myler and Elise
Hagensen to expand their focus.
Concerned about the eco-

' nomic plight of Rockbridge
Cdinty res_idents following re-

. cent plant closings, Darrell sug-
gested that the lip sync proceeds
be split between SAMS and the

. Rockbridge Area Relief Asso-
ciation.
The first annual SAMS/

I R.§RA lip sync contest will be
Friday, Jan. 22 at 9 p.m. in the
pavilion, Darrell said.

I Darrell said he estimates that
half of the contest’s proceeds will

' beneﬁt RARA and Community

Sophomore
drops case
against cadet

Nearly 700 people ﬁlled the
Pavilion for last year’s contest,
won by five Sigma Phi Epsilon
pledges gyrating to Right Said
Fred’s “I'm Too Sexy.” The
pledges later won MT V’s na-
tional competition in Daytona
Beach, Fla.

In 1990, three Phi Gamma
Delta members won the national
contest for their performance of
“Jungle Love.”

I ‘ “Darrell said last year’s con-

test raised $3,215 to fight mul-
tiple sclerosis, a disease affect-
ing the nervous system.

The lip sync contest started
seven years ago in the Generals
Headquarters, but moved to the
Pavilion in 1990 to hold the large
crowds. MTV also began spon-
sorship in 1990. The move and
MTV affiliation helped SAMS
double the amount of money it
raised.

Most acts are fraternity and
sorority pledge classes, but
Darrell said he hopes to expand
the variety of performers.

“We want to see more faculty
acts,” Darrell said. He said per-
formances by professors and ath-
letes would draw an even larger
crowd and raise more money.

‘Sorority activeswehearse a musicalpresentation to enticegrjushees. ..

yearbook

    

hot by Richard Peltz, The Ring-tum Phi

Women anticipate Flush week

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

While sorority actives excitedly pre-
pare for Rush to begin, freshman women
are still hesitant about the week which
could change their college careers.

“No one really wants to be that fake
for four days in a row,” a freshman
woman said. “But there must be some
reason why girls go through Rush.”

On Friday, 154 freshmen and 17
upper—class women will begin four
nights of Rush functions with an infor-
mal Open House. After Sunday’s Skit
Night, each sorority selects rushees to

invite back to Tuesday’s Sisterhood
Night, after which another cut is made.

When the ﬁnal party is over on Thurs-
day night, Eubanks said rushees and
sororities choose each other in a “mu-
tuallyniatching process.” Bids are given
out Friday afternoon.

Some freshman women said that
though Rush is one way to meet upper-
class women, they don’t see how sorori-
ties fit into life at Washington and Lee.

“Since they don’t have houses, [so-
rorities] don’t seem to do anything,” a
freshman said. “I’m not really into all
that sisterhood and sing-songy sniff. I
think it’s kind of silly.”

But sorority members say Rush is

By GREGORY PATTERSON

more than silly songs and superﬁcial
conversations.

“ [Rush] is definitely a really busy
and fun time,” a sorority president said.
“Since we don’t have houses, [Rush]
brings all the sororities together.”

Contact between sorority actives and
rushees is prohibited this weekend,
which distresses rushees who can’t par-
take in the traditional W&L social scene.
But though rushees are unsure about the
week to come, most agree with sorority
members that the possibilities for friend-
ships outweigh the inconveniences.

“We’re encouraging everyone to just
go and have fun and meet as many
people as they can,” Eubanks said.

Phi News Editor

A‘ Criminal charges against a VMI cadet accused
’ of assaulting a W&L junior in an October fight
‘ were reduced and then dismissed in Lexington

is General District Court.

is

9-

;

A

. -

On Dec. 8, Judge Robert S. Culpepper dis-
missed assault and battery charges against Virginia
Military Institute cadet Todd Washington. The
charges stemmed from an Oct. 8 ﬁght at Phi Delta
Tfieta in which Phi Delt member Joshua Helton had
two teeth knocked out.

Helton said Tuesday he agreed to drop the
felony malicious wounding charges against Wash-
in gton, but would not say why.

Helton was injured in the second of two fights
involving students and cadets on the same night.
Washington was arrested Oct. 26 after Helton ﬁled
a complaint stating that Washington “struck me at
least twice and knocked out two of my teeth.”

Washington was released on recognizance with

the stipulation that he would have no contact with A

’ Helton and would not go to the Phi Delt house.

Washington had not returned to Lexington from
Ciristmas break on Wednesday and could not be
reached at his home in Trafford, Pa. Washington’s

-an

.-

‘-

-~ lawyer, G. Marshall Mundy of Roanoke, would not
comment on the case.

In response to a series of fights between W&L
students and cadets, VMI Commandant Mike Bissell
told the Interfratemity Council Tuesday that he
biped to avoid further incidents but he told frater-
nity officers what to do in case they do have
problems with cadets.

Bissell said anyone can call the officer in charge
at VMI at 464-7336 anytime day or night. He said
the officer, who is not a cadet, will respond to any
reports of cadets misbehaving by coming to the

ene and returning the cadets to VMI.

Bissell also said he would personally respond to
any complaints that the ofﬁcer in charge could not
handle. He gave the fraternity members his number
at home, 464-5181.

I
I

By RANSOM J AMES
Phi Contributing Writer

Just a third of undergraduates will appear in
this year’s Calyx, about 200 people less than two
years ago.

Calyx editor Anthony Catalano is searching
for a solution to the decrease in undergraduates
appearing in the Calyx, from 581 in 1991 to 510
' in 1992. This year, Catalano said about 400
people signed up to have their picture taken. He
said it was possible that fewer people signed up
because of an increase in the fee from $1 2 to $15.

Catalano said the additional money will be
used to improve the quality of the book and add
a more expensive cover. But Catalano said some
students believe it is not worth the extra money
to have their picture in the Calyx.

“Irealize the problem withthe fee,’ ’ Catalano
said. “I’m in the process of coming up with a
solution for next year.”

Catalano said he is considering two ideas he
hopes will allow more students to appear in the
Calyx: allowing students to bill the fee to their
parents rather than paying for it in the matricula-
tion line and asking the Executive Committee to
request a raise in the student activities fee to pay
for every student’s picture.

In an effort to get more people in this year’s
annual, Catalano said students can still have their
picture taken Monday, Jan. 11.

Man asks W&L women for panty hose

gave him some old panty hose,” Kauffman said.
“He came a few times after that but we told her not
to give him anything.”

Van Vliet said that “Parity Hose Man,” as he is
called on campus, was discussed at a meeting of
her sorority. Van Vliet said her sorority’s resident
consultant, Lauren Gross, warned the women about
the man and said he had come to her Lee Avenue
apartment eight times.

The Lexington police are withholding com-
plaints ﬁled against Panty Hose Man pending an
investigation to determine whether he has commit-
ted a crime but Lexington Police Chief Bruce M.
Beard said police think they know Panty Hose
Man’s identity.

“We’re constantly observing the gentleman,”
he said.

Beard said anyone who is visited by Panty Hose
Man should contact police.

“We have a sticky situation here,” Beard said.
“He has not yet committed a crime to our knowl-
edge.” '

Will reschedules address,
to speak on Founders’ Day

tional honorary fraternity which
will induct 27 students during
the Convocation, will tap Will as
an honorary member. ODK was

Other honorary initiates will
include John F. Wolfe, ’65, who
is president and publisher of The
Dispatch Printing Company in
Columbus, Ohio; Randall P.
Bezanson, dean of the W&L law
school; and W&L art history pro-

Founders’ Day is celebrated
each year on Jan.l9, Robert E.

I I
Fraternity H  p
° - IIIEIII
Fall Term
Rep ort Card
(figures include pledges and active members) 
W&L women are being visited by a young man
Beta §’§‘§’§’§’§’§ 2768' who goes from door to door asking for their panty
ChlO §%r§.§.§,§.§r§r§.§t§.§§§>§»§>§s§§§>§s 3.226 hose, though it might be for a good cause.

.. Jk'V V1‘ W&L h hl'
Cm PSI §%§‘§’§§‘§’§§’§‘§§ 2332 on 1\2gCl((:rk1:nDﬁi/:5 saaid a yoiiiipg ritraizrlgrivdclgedvgri
Fiji §§§ « 2630 her door in November. When she answered the

door, the man asked her if she could spare some
KA §>°§>§>§§>§§§5§*§§>Q§*§=§%§§>§‘¢ 3-1 39 black socks or panty hose. She said she refused and
Kappa eeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeese 3.262 Illeflan Polltely thank_<=d lger and W_a1ke<_i away-

_ He looks like a child,’ Van Vliet said, “about
KSig eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 3.040 junior high age_”

LCA §i§‘§’§§§§§§§§§§%%§i§i( 3'1 01 inci\(]l:ilit‘ii)l e<E.ai2luf‘li<E.hEe(irli(iirgttoiihl;I)1<})(l iiréoiiiiooiiaii/1:
PIIIDGII %§§§§.§.§§.§‘ 2.841 received a number of complaints about the man.

- , Sophomore Ashlie Kauffman said that when the
Ph'Kapp %§‘§§’ 2676 man visited her house on North Randolph Street, he
PhiPsi §§§§§§§§§§€ 2.878 said was wfas using titre panty hose tof make dolls.

. ‘ ' ti ,
PiBeta eeteeeeeteeeeseeee 3.050 " "“ "“° ° °“"‘° °““ ° my ’°°“““°S
PiKA Qeeeeeeeeeeé 2.912
PiPhi §§s§§§§§s§§ 2.828
SAE Qeeeeeeeeeeee 2.950
SigChi %.§§§e&.%§.- 2.807
Sig Ep eeeeseeeeeeee 2.955
SNU §§>§>§§§>' 2-742 From the W&L News Office
Theta eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 3.207 Colummstand author George
Will will be the special guest
speakeratW&L’sFounders’Day founded at W&L in 1914.
Convocation on Jan. 19.
. W‘11 h d 1 d ak
Fratemlty Men 2874 at Openiii:sCs(i:n\?o;1aiiori(iriSIS‘::p-
Non-F,-atemjty Men 2395 tember but cancelled his appear-
, ance because of travel problems.
 Women    whose column appears
_ - , in 470 newspapers across the
Non Fraternity women 3123 United States including The fessor Pamela Simpson.
All Students 2.983 Ring-tum Phi, will speak in Lee
Chapel at 11:30 a.m.
Omicron Delta Kappa, a na- 1-655 bi1'1hdaY~

 

 

"A‘A“-I‘b‘A'A‘A‘O'.A‘J A AA A n n I 0 1 5 u I I I L n I

 

PAGE 2

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Founded September 18, 1897

Mickey Mouse: tan,
rested and ready

The Executive Committee followed student governments of past
years off the plank Monday, leaping into the supra-constitutional realm
of scheduling class elections.

Election scheduling is a perennial headache for the EC. The student
constitution sets Big Three elections on the 10th Monday of winter term
and general elections on the 12th Monday, unless those dates conﬂict
with the “school schedule.” If there is a conflict, such as law school break,
the EC may move the elections with a two-thirds affirmative vote.

But last year the EC abused the constitution’s ﬂexibility by moving
Big Three elections to the week before February break, and this year’s
EC followed suit. The constitution mandates that elections be advertised
in The Ring-tum Phi every week in February; obviously, the constitution
writers intended that elections occur in March.

The scheduling scheme of the constitution is not arbitrary. Holding
elections too early discourages students from getting involved. With
elections falling so early in winter term, many students might not have
time to consider candidacy and prepare for a campaign adequately.

Last year’s Feb. 10 election is a case in point. EC President Josh
MacFarland’s topchallengers were two write-in candidates: BJ . League,
then a senior, and Mickey Mouse, who was not even a student. Both
League and Mouse entered the race primarily to make a point about the
poor scheduling that resulted in an uncontested presidency.

But MacFarland and the EC plan to repeat last year’s mistake. The
committee voted 7-2 to move Big Three elections to early February:
Agelasto, Hackney, Hutton, Johnson, Kull, Pierce and Tompkins for;
Moseley and Stewart against.

There is a precedent for this move, albeit unconstitutional. In the fall
of 1990-91, the EC endorsed constitutional revisions, one of which
would have made election scheduling more ﬂexible. We do not endorse
that revision, as it would permit elections on any week before the 10th,
and it would set the Big Three elections before February break. All the
revisions failed because too few students voted in the referendum;
ironically, the low turnout was attributable to poor scheduling.

To prevent a repeat of last year’s disastrous farce of a presidential
election, the EC must conform to the constitution and advance the Big
Three election to March 8. The only rationale the EC has for not holding
elections on March 8 is that FD is the weekend prior. But during the
constitutional revisions procedures three years ago, then-VRB Chair-
man Wes Goings told the revisions committee that election turnout
actually increased when elections were held on the Monday after FD.

Speaking of constitutional revisions, the constitution makes no men-
tion of a general election for Student Conduct Committee president.
While the revised SCC constitution and procedures agreed on last year
by faculty and students have improved the SCC and strengthened student
autonomy, these changes must be incorporated into the constitution to be

.  . '

QIWQEQ shpuldiadopta eonstitutfofialirevisiionéformallychanging the
Big T'hr,ee,to the Big-Foiir, ands-send;thatii‘evision‘tqitrefereritlurn
simultaneously with the election, ‘thus 'en§1i'r'in‘g'"hi'gh tu:r’nou't.iWhile
they’re at it, they might consider revising the constitution to legalize
some other unconstitutional practices, such as closing EC doors for
IIIKCTVICWS.

White Book rules

We hope everyone has taken the time to read the My View on this
page, which was written by the mother of a student dismissed in a student
body hearing last spring. In normal circumstances, The Ring-tum Phi
follows White Book guidelines in disclosing no information on honor
proceedings, because we have a sizable readership outside the student
body. In this case, however, we consulted EC President Josh MacFarland,
who agreed that the student body might benefit from reading Ms.
McCord’s opinions in the Phi unedited.

Quote ofthe Week

It's the only way I know what day it is.
— a W&L junior expressing her preference for birth control pills
organized by day of the week

How dumb do you think I am?
— Associate Dean of Students Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins, asking a
presumably rhetorical question

("I112 iﬁittg-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

  
  

  
 

v

The Ring-tum Phl, January  1993

H99/(3 Fort. ﬁt!‘
ea Rte-1.57‘/{Ii ’
LAW, LESSON ONE: _.
MAKE if HAKP F55 Tilt-: f%:;t<-.2
Tl’ Pit’ ‘DOW THE LOcA'l701~/

of‘)/oU}z_ Kga. -

Honor System cries for review

MY VIEW
By Suzanne McCord

When I read your editorial entitled “Leave Honor
to the Students,” I felt compelled to clarify the
misconceptions alluded to in this article. I think this
article would have been more accurately classified
as a gossip column, butl will attempt to clarify what
pertains directly to my child, who was dismissed for
an alleged honor violation last May, and to my
family. I cannot, however, speak for the Board of
Trustees or the EC on matters directly evolving from
their meetings where I was not present. I will begin
by quoting the false statement and giving you the
true facts to the best of my knowledge.

1. Fallacy: “According to several students, many
alumni in the dismissed student’s home state were
also contacted and asked to participate in an effort to
have her conviction reversed and to have her rein-
stated at the university.”

Fact: We, as a family, were terribly disturbed
and frustrated by the apparent injustice in our
daughter’s case, but the outpouring of concern from
friends and W&L associates, who were equally
astounded by the verdict, triggered an in-depth re-
search project on legal pro-

rights of the accused and accepting the responsibili-
ties of the prosecution. Be careful not to create an
overzealous reaction of “threat to student autonomy”
when the input of all those affected by the system
combined with the fresh contemporary ideas of the
students would only serve to strengthen through
education and debate the system governed by the
students.

4. Fallacy: Another inference in the article is that
my daughter would utilize her father’s association
with the school to facilitate her return to the W&L
classroom.

Fact: This could not be further from the truth!
Even if she were considering returning to W&L, and
she is not, she would only return with the blessing of
the student body. Your article is correct when you
refer to the dismissed student's father being a mem-
ber of the Alumni Board. Her father has had a deep
sense of gratitude and devotion to W&L since his
graduation in 1963 and has been an active participant
in many alumni affairs benefiting the school. He has
many friends in the W&L community and has natu-
rally had communication with many of these friends
as a result of the sadness surrounding our daughter’s
dismissal.

It is with sincere hopefulness and enthusiasm that
I embrace the idea of a public

cedures in our country and a
comparative study of honor
codes at other universities.
Without exception, we
found W&L’s Honor Sys-
tem to have more procedural
deﬁciencies as well as being
more inconsistent‘ly'admin--

I feel the EC by itself is not
capable of an objective review
of a system which they have
been charged to defend so ve-
hementlygbut should have the

debate on matters of concern
in the Honor System every-
one supports and would like
to see function with maxi-
mum effectiveness, virtue
and fairness. As I reflect on
many of the letters we re-

.» ~frorri»other universities we

istered than anyothér‘siiigle *  3 public:‘deb“_ite- -_
I sanction s stem."‘We“also  -  ,,._ 1'5 .
found W& ’s' Honor System to be the most punitive

7 t

of any other system, including the military acad-
emies where soldiers are trained in the most strin-
gent disciplinary matters to prepare them for life-
threatening situations. We responded to all the people
who had expressed concern for our child’s case or
who had a specific connection to us in W&L affairs
by sending them a copy of our research, and to avoid
minor, we explained all the specifics in our child’s
case. While we were interested in and sincerely
appreciated everyone’s special condolences and well-
founded opinions, we subsequently encouraged any
further input to be communicated directly to the
school to raise the awareness of the discrepancies in
the Honor System.

2. Fallacy: “And there is a third story, which says
administrators, and possibly the Board of Trustees,
discussed allowing the dismissed student back at
W&L to audit courses unofficially.”

Fact: I have no knowledge of a discussion of this
nature in the Board of Trustees meeting, but I can
enlighten your readers on my child’s position on this
subject as well as any request we might have made
in our letter to the school. While my daughter was
very happy and devoted to W&L last year and
remains close to her many dear friends at the school,
she has no intention of returning to the university
and certainly would not be interested in merely
auditing classes. In fact, the brutality of the dis-
missal has regretfully made it too painful even to
return to be with many special friends whom she
would delight in seeing.

When we submitted our honor code research to
the President of the university and the Board of
Tmstees, we requested a review of my daughter’s
case based on numerous inequities we feel exist.
Each of these grievances was substantiated in our
letter and the request was made based on Section III,
Paragraph “N” of the White Book stating that a
hearing may be reopened to prevent injustices. We
were cordially informed by the Board of Trustees in
a letter that our request and honor code research had
been passed along to the Executive Committee where
it was determined we had no grounds for an appeal.
Actually, we could never imagine the prosecuting
committee rmamg any reason to reopen a case triey
had already painstakingly litigated with success.
Therefore, this was merely an exercise in futility. I
agree with the statement in the article which read,
“Likewise, once a case goes to open hearing, it
should never be re-adjudicated in a less-than-open
hearing room.”

3. Fallacy: The article inferred that there was a
movement threatening student control of the Honor
System.

Fact: We are simply advocating the most thor-
ough and professional review of the system, not
stripping the power of enforcement of the Honor
System from the students. All systems require ex-
amination from time to time, and my daughter’s case
has emphasized that need at W&L. I feel the EC by
itself is not capable of an objective review of a
system which they have been charged to defend so
vehemently but should have the benefit of a public
debate. In this respect lagree with your article when
you write, “The future of the Honor System should
never be discussed behind doors closed to all stu-
dents.” My only apparent difference in concept on
“open discussion” is who is “allowed” to voice an
opinion.‘ I believe the review would beneﬁt tremen-
dously from the sentiments of the entire W&L
community (students, professors, alumni, parents,
administrators, etc). Some very vital suggestions
and ideas could come from the experience of those
who have dealt with judicial matters outside the
university and who are familiar with protecting the

i-~:"-- w - . — :read,”th’ere are ﬁveipoints
which‘repeatedly surfaced, and I hope ’will be ad-
dressed in this debate.

1. Intent— A student should not be afraid of
unintentionally or unknowingly committing an honor
violation in a system which is touted for creating a
community of mutual trust.

2. Dismissal (versus withdrawal after closed hear-
ing)-— A student should not be more severely pun-
ished for exercising the right to an appeal. We could
not ﬁnd a judicial system in this country which has a
stiffer penalty for conviction in the appellate process
than it has for the original verdict. The students who
are unjustly penalized by this rule are those who
believe strongly in their innocence or who have a
marginal offense, not the blatant cheater.

3. Voting Investigators— The EC investigators
of an alleged violation should not be allowed to
prosecute the case, sit in judgment, deliberate the
verdict, and then vote on the verdict. This could
create a bias and severely hamper the rights of the
accused.

4. Tattletale Policy—'Ihe accuser should have to
confront the accused for his/her explanation of what
happened. We received two suggestions if this con-
frontation is impossible: 1) A mediation group should
be formed with the professor involved and other
relevant parties to discuss and try to understand and
resolve the differences before reporting the offense to
the EC; 2) Perhaps the offense should be reported to
the professor, and the professor should decide if it is
a reportable incident.

5. Unanimous Jury Vote— The student jury in
the open trial should be required to have a unanimous
vote to convict like all other judicial systems in our
country.

The focus of our criticism of W&L’s Honor Sys-
tem is the procedural inequities which deny the
accused student a fair and impartial hearing. As it is
currently written, the Honor System unfairly restricts
and even intimidates the accused student. All five of
these inequities should be of great concem to the
W&L student body. Frankly, I am appalled that a
public hearing could take place on such a question-
able offense, a dedicated and respected student could
be ostracized by her peers. and it would take this long
to raise any public awareness, controversy, or ae Date.
This makes me believe there is a tremendous insen-
sitivity in the student body to the far-reaching effects
and hurt of the damaging blows they are inflicting. I
am equally as astonished by the number of people in

I

just the opposite of this intended spirit. In other
words, an innocent or unsuspecting honorable stu-
dent is more likely to be trapped by the system

the devious cheater who has refined the skills of 4
covering his tracks. This is creating a community of
fear, not a community of trust. This should be of
concern to all students, and public debate should
serve to educate everyone in this community of these
serious pitfalls in a doctrine they revere uncondition- r
ally without questioning the lack of protectionlor
each worthy student. ”

Each member of our family is a strong proponent ,

of a well-implemented Honor System, and my daugh-
ter was and still is an advocate of the Honor System ‘
at W&L. However, fairness through education and
administration is of utmost concern to us after this -
devastating experience. If you consider some ofthe
offenses which could be interpreted as an honor
violation under the present system, a student could
have a life-altering experience for such simple acts as
borrowing without proper permission or signing a
pledge after writing a paper on a book you read when
indeed you skimmed part of the book and did not read _
every word. If everyone at W&L was put underﬁhe ‘

same scrutiny as my daughter, Ithink it would be safe 1 ’

to say you would have a very small student body. .
When there are so many serious problems on our
college campuses, many of which are against the laws
of our nation, such as rape, drugs, underage drinking,
drunk driving, cheating and stealing, and disrespect
for property, it seems unfortunate to focus such w th
on a student like my child who loved the school, was
a contributor in many aspects of campus life, was an
advocate of the Honor System, a dedicated student,

~ ~cei-ved,-and the--h0nO#»cedeS~1l-andaperstmof notable integrity. :1 don’t,think:'this is

the type of?person.the:system isdesigned toimpugn.

In retrospect, ,it_has been a very painful and soul-
searching experience for our entire family: While I
understand in much greater detail than I ever thou'ght
possible the Honor System at Washington and Lee, I
have an even stronger commitment to my daughter as
an honorable individual, and I understand and feel a
deeper sense of compassion in my heart for her as she
has been forced to examine her own integrity and deal
with this public humiliation which I feel she never
deserved. I know she made an “error in judgmait,’
but she had no intention of deceit. These are the kin oi
of mistakes we, as human beings, make every day 0 '
our lives. A question was posed to one of the profes
sors in the open trial to the effect of, “Do you ever sa r
you have done something when you have not done
it?” He replied with a chuckle, “Of course, we all d o
that.” Unfortunately, the jury was left with the ina
impression of the blazing accusations of the E I
prosecutor when he stood in closing, pointing hi
finger at my child, calling her by name, and exclaim .
ing in a repugnant tone of voice, she is a liar. This 5
a “dagger” which has been very difficult to remov
from all our hearts, and I still question, “Is this hono
system which is so revered at W&L the same hbno
system which gives this EC member the license t
make such incriminating and erroneous accusation.
to the entire student body?” Is this honorable behav ’
ior in itself? Do these prosecuting students stop t v
think about the damage they inﬂict by “dismissing” a
student when the outside world treats this label as .
act with a connotation resembling that of a hardgned
criminal. These are all questions I would like to seé
addressed in a public review of the system, an n
hopefully, provoking changes in the-doctrine to pro-
vide safeguards to prevent another tragedy such .
my daughter’s, where the punishment does not fit th
crime.

I sincerely hope the apparent indifference oigth -,
Washington and Lee campus does not prevent furthe
student investigation and debate on the many disput-
able aspects of the code which we discovered as ai
result of my daughter’s incomprehensible dismissal.
As a matter of reference, we found the UVa honor
code to be most closely akin to the W&L code, bein ;
a student operated system with a single sanction. Th -.
defining document at UVa is very well drawn with
specific language of what constitutes an honor viola-,
tion. UVa’s system has built-in safeguards to prevent
minor infractions from being brought to tria1~and to’
give the accused an unbiased chance for defense. The,
administration of the UVa code involves many more

the W&L community (students, pro- —-——?——————— people than one executive commit-'
fessors, administrators, alumni, par- I know she made an tee or governing body inclulﬂng,
ents, and even the professor directly “ - - ,, honor counselors, honor advisors,
involved in our case) who have re- error 'nJudgn_‘ent9 and mediation groups, and the pro-’
marked to us that they never truly but she had 110 inten- cedures for this administration -—-

understood all the implications of the
system they hailed as the “W&L gos-
pel.” I hope a thorough examination
of the Honor System and its implica-
tions through public debate will serve
to raise the awareness of everyone
affected by the system and prevent
this tragedy from occurring with an-
other naive, well—meaning student.

I was pleased to read your reference to the “spirit
of the white book” which I feel should be reclaimed
by the W&L student body. There is no question that
the “letter of the law” was enforced in my daughter’s
case, but the “spirit of the law” was never broached.
As Iunderstand it, the spirit of the law was to create
a community of mutual trust protecting all the honor-
able members of that community from the deceitful
acts of lying, cheating, and stealing. By virtue of
several ill-defined areas addressed in the W&L Honor
System and the general lack of protection of the rights
of the accused, the code as it stands now generates

tion of deceit. These
are the kind of mis-
takes we, as human
‘beings, make every
day of our lives.

very explicit. We have spent a great
deal of time and effort on this projec '
and would be glad to share any 0
our documentation with those Oh
are interested. Do not misinterpre
our objectives, for we are not tryin ;.
to cast blame in our daughters case
have her re-instated in your univer
sity, demolish the single sanction system, or threate
student autonomy, but we are questioning the system
and trying to inspire some much needed changea t
give the accused a fair chance to defend themselves.
We feel very strongly that just because a doctrine has
been in place for 200 years does not mean it is totally
without ﬂaw. I challenge the complacency of W&L
and charge each of you with the responsibility of
examining and debating the imperfections in a dogma
everyone at W&L sanctifies but few truly under-‘
stand. ’ " *

Suzanne McCord is the mother of a student dis-
missed after an open honor trial last spring.

 

, Spos reveals Ernest and J

“Mad Dog” —— there is none. Before
Christmas break, during an alcoholic

if

)9»

 

The Ring-tum Phl, January 7, 1993

,Si=os’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

qwertyuiop — Oh, excuse me, just
testing out the new word processor
Spos received for Christmas this year.
A rather nice model. Spos must thank
‘his loving parental units for such a
useful gift, as this new word processor
will greatly facilitate my dishing out
vital information to my thousands of
admiring fans.

Anyway, this column has a lot of
objectives and is sure to be long-
winded, so I will get off this power trip
and get on with the show.

UPDATE #1 -—The Larry Skipper
thing is beginning to get just a bit out of
hand. Spos has before him a fax trans-
mission, deliveredbythe folks atlntra-
campus mail, that shows that followers
of this Skipper fellow are completely

Qderanged. The fax reads: “Please for-
ward to Tom I-lespos. The Ring-tum
Phi. He'll understand.” What follows
can only be described as incomprehen-
sible garbage: “Larry. Larry. l l-0V8
Larry.'I;al'|’y. Larry. Larry. Be wary of

.Larry.. _ _ . ,
Not to be critical of our nation s
mental health facilities or anything.

but how did this guy manage to get to
a fax machine after escaping his pad-

ded cell?

Spos has also received several cor-
respondences from followers of Mr.
Skipper, including envelopes mailed

interlude between exams, Spos and his

fratemity brothers had the pleasure of
sampling Mad Dog's newest ﬂavor,
Banana Red. After sampling the fine

OPINION

uIio’s secret

from hotels beverage, made
around the coun- in Spos’ home
try,containingtoi- It seems that Gallo, a state of New
letpaper.(Getit?) com an  tel '1“ York, we came
Further research I) p  a al bslto to the conclu-
indicates that e Sernbrespecta es sionthatitlooks
larryskiigper is a has cornered the cheap like cherry 
K“l’l’; .s‘i§m‘,',§“° wine market You learn C'b“““f.‘°‘“‘°
recen yjo e _ ' banana iqueur.
ranks of the something every day. Imagine the
alurririi.Whatis II   you know prank p0SSibiil-
aw" ms guy? we’ll find out that Alice ﬁes:
We may never
know. Cooper played the part Joe Frat:
UPDATE #2 - - Hey Frank.
_The VMI SW of Big I,3,ird on “Sesame Have some
at.ion.'I'hewaveof Street. cherry Hi-C.
death threats has [offers Frank a
finally subsided. glass of Banana

Spos no longer gets crank calls at four
inthe morning. I.et’s just say that Uncle
Vito had a busy Christmas break and
leave it at that, shall we?

UPDATE #3 — The inescapable
mystique and savoir-faire surrounding
20/20 wine, commonly referred to as

To the Editor:

I am writing to inform mem- tomato?”
bers of the university cornmu- Student: (a little irritated)
llity of problems that exist in the “Yes.”

Snack Bar. Because of the over-
crowded conditions at the Snack
Bar, we have allowed our pa-

trons,contrarytostandard indus- Cashier: “Are you having
trypractices,topay for their food fries?”
before they actually receive it. I Student: “No.”

.am confident that in no other Cashier: “Thank you,” and
self-service operation, anywhere, rings up the sale.
would you be allowed to order This exerciseis fnistratingfor
your food, go to the cashier and both the cashier and the student
inform her, sight unseen, what andis certainly time consuming,
you have ordered and have that backing up the line. However,

cashier honor your word as to
what you ordered. (You pay in

get. Are you having lettuce and

Cashier: “That's extra,” (and
rings it up). “What size Pepsi?”
Student: “Large.”

the alternative (the standard ac-
cepted procedure), which we

LETTERS

Director warns of H Vs at Co-op

that they had forgotten their
money, tell her what they re-
ceived and give their name.

We have the impression now
that some students genuinely do
not believe they have to have
money when they come to the
Snack Bar. Because of the Honor
System they believe that they
can take their food and leave and
come back and pay at some time
convenient to them. This is not
the policy. Our liberal policy is
being abused entirely too often.

The policy is this: Any person
wishing to make a purchase in
the Snack Bar must pay for his]
her food then and there. When a

Red Mad Dog]

Frank the Pledge: Okay. [Dririks.
Vomits on the house mother's shoes.
Frat brothers have a good laugh.]

One question plagued Spos’ usu-
ally clear mind during his late-night

encounter with the beastly beverage:
Where does Mad Dog come from?

After some brilliant investigative
work, which incidentally consisted of
visiting two New York liquor stores
and consulting the proprietors, Spos
managed to get the truth. In the pro-
cess, Spos managed to uncover the
most embarrassing scandal since
Watergate.

As it turns out, the 20/20 Wine Co.,‘
which makes Mad Dog, is owned by
Gallo Wines. No wait, the best is yet to
come. Not only does Gallo produce
Mad Dog, but it also produces some of
Mad Dog's cousins: Night Train,
Thunderbird, Lighming Creek, you
name it. It seems that Gallo, acompany
that claims to be semi-respectable, has
cornered the cheap wine market. You
learn something every day. Next thing
you know, we’ll find out that Alice
Cooper played the part of Big Bird on
“Sesame Street.”

Despite Mad Dog's “wino” image,
Spos would suggest that you at least
sample the new addition to the Mad
Dog family. Of course, don’t blame me

V if you end up in the dumpster behind

Stop-Iii, talking to yourself. It is an
unfortunate side-effect of prolonged
Mad Dog exposure.

advance at McDonalds; however, probablyshould be doing, would situation occurs when a member
the cashier who takes your order cause even more of a backup, of the W&L community finds
and your cash is the same person only it would be at the sandwich that, upon approaching the cash- anonymously.
who delivers your food.) This board. rather than the cash regis- ier, he/she does not have lii_s/her
deviationfrom standard business ter. . . . wallet/money. he/she may. leave
practice is made possible by our , The ‘ 9 problem of their name with the cashier along
Honor System. overcrowdedriess and long lines with the arnountof purchase. The

Two problems currently ex-
ist. Entirely too many students
come to the cashier and require
her, ironically, to the chagrin of
some students, to engage in
“twenty questions.” consider the

would be compounded. We will
try to avoid this; however, stu-
dents must do a better job of
informing the cashier of all items
that require extra charge.
The second item is of an even

person must then return within
24 hours to settle the account.

At no time should anyone

walk out of the Snack Bar “with-

B out paying.” That is an abuse of

the Honor System. I invite any-

Sincerely,

Student: editorial
was irresponsible

To the Editor:

You were terribly irresponsible to publishthe“Stock-
ing stuffers” editorial in the Dec. 3 issue. Though pre-
sumably an effort at humor, the piece was bigoted,
malicious, and misinformed.

The author’s reference to “the Hanukkah bunny”
shows a blatant disregard for the Jewish tradition. I
personally found it offensive, and I was horrified to think
that Jewish students and professors would see their
religion mocked in the university’s newspaper.

There is simply no excuse for the editorial’s cynicism
thinly disguised as “gifts.” University administrators
and local ofﬁcials aside, why was the author compelled
to make petty attacks on the members of the Executive
Committee? These representatives serve Washington
and Lee openly and diligently. It is all too easy, and
immature, for the author to criticize his schoolmates

Finally, the author may characterize Lexington as a
“sea of prosperity,” but the fact remains that the town is
situated in Virginia's poorest county. Please realize that
The Ring-tum Phi represents all of the Washington and
Lee community. In this “season of giving,” don’t lead
the rest of Lexington to believe that we are all bigoted,
snobbish brats. Don’t embarrass us by publishing an-
other piece like “Stocking stuffers” again.

following dialogue. more serious nature. Again, be- one who has any questions about Cameron Howell '94
8‘ Student: (tocashier) “I'm hav- cause of our Honor System, we this matter to visit me in my
ing a hamburger and Pepsi.” have allowed members of the office at Evans Hall.
Cashier: (readytoring up sale) university community who “for-
“Are you having cheese?” I get” their morwy to come back Sincerely,
Student: “Yes.” and pay later.Int.liepaststudents Jerry Darrell, Director
Cashier: “That's acheesebur- usedtoatleast inform the cashier Dining services
O l
Common Ground Issue offends reader
To the Editor: other force in Western life. While this does contain one particularly irrespon-

When the Emperor Constantine
irnprudently handed civilization over
to the Christian church, the Lamb’:
Jollowers quickly proved themselves
the most vicious and intolerant group
of ideologues the world has ever seen.
(“Not even the wild beasts of the field
are as savage to one another as the
Christians,” remarked one 4th-century
observer, with a certain awe.) In the
genturies since (depressing ones,
mostly) Christianity has authorized
more carnage and suffering than any

growth-orientedreligionhasneverbeen
without its humane and intelligent ex-
ponents—notably its namesake—and
subscribers, the primitive, brutal and
intolerant have generally prevailed.
Tnie to this heritage, the bumblers who
give us W&L’s Common Ground
rrtagazine have just seen fit to mark
their Savior‘s birth with an issue de-
voted to fag-bashing.

This free-for-all reveals not much
more stupidity and illogic than we usu-
ally get from the Christian Right, but it

sible piece of misinformation. Of the
recently voted-on Ballot Measure 9 in
Oregon, Common Ground says that
“[w]hat was actuallyproposed was”no
more than an innocent “statutory defi-
nition of homosexuality as an act rather
than a trait.”'I‘his mild and sane propo-
sition, whined the Christian Bumblers,
has been sneakily and unfairly “at-
tacked as an ‘an anti-gay law’ or even
‘anti gay-rights law,’ as if the rights of
homosexuals were to be restricted.

In fact, this harmless proposed

City Manager defends car tax

important to W&L, its students, staff, and alumni. The city

To the Editor:

I certainly regret that ldid not read your Nov. 19 editorial
concerning the personal property tax until it appeared in the
News Gazette. I would have preferred to respond in a more
timely fashion toan issue you seemto place on equal footing
with the slumbering economy, ournation’shealth care crisis
and the role of the United States in the post-Cold War world.

Let me first state what I consider to be two indisputable

Ofacts: 1) nobody likes to pay taxes (though most people
accept them as a necessary evil); and 2) as you stated in your

' editorial, the only reason the city is collecting the property
tax (from anyone) is for the dollars. It does take money to
provide governmental services from which society benefits.
Local governments are constantly being squeezed by the
Federal and State governments which are trying to meet

‘' gtheir basic needs by cutting local funds and, at the same time,
passing on exceptionally costly mandates. These mandates

on top of other normal local goverrirrient responsibilities
like public safety, transportation, sanitation, and education
all require tax dollars to provide. Taxes that should be pmd

by all.

Your editorial suggests that students shouldri’t have to
.pay a personal property tax if they bring a car to school with
. them. You fail to give a reason, however, as to why students
should be exempt. And if they are exemptfrom this tax, what
about other state and local taxes that you pay? If you are
from out-of-state and take a part-time job while in school, do
you not pay Virginia's income tax? When you purchase an
item, do you not pay state sales tax? I know I do when I am
ut-of-state. In some situations, we even have parents of
students purchase a house for the student to use while they
' are in school. Would you claim that they should not be
subject to our real estate tax? So far I have not heard a hue
and a cry about students paying these taxes.
You also seem to think that President Wilson should be
‘vilified for endorsing a policy of cooperation with the city
and making contributions to support the city. On the con-

\

O

trary, he and the other leadership at W&L should be com-
mended for having the foresight to recognize that a ﬁnan-
cially healthy government that supplies quality services is

is very appreciative of not only this financial commitment,
but even more, the larger commitment he has made to
encourage the entire institution to become an integral com-
ponent of our community.

In addition to the annual contribution, the university has
been very supportive in requests for specific contributions
that the city has made; however, let's not give the impres-
sion that these come anywhere close to the real estate tax the
school would pay if it were not tax-exempt. In FY1992-93,
if there were no exemption, W&L’s tax bill would amount
to over $993,000. To put this in perspective, if both W&L
and VMI had to pay real estate taxes, the city could still
support its existing budget if it eliminated the personal
property tax and reduced the real estate tax rate from 96
cents to 64 cents. I am in no way advocating any change in

. existing tax exemptions. My only intent is to show the
financial impact on the city of existing tax policy.

If the real problem you face are “hassles” with your home
locality, the answer is to allow us to better educate your

. parents of this responsibility and to assist us in getting bills

school's locality.

real problems.
Sincerely,

T. Jon Ellestad
City Manager

out in a timely manner. Because of the difficulty in finding
as many of the vehicles as possible, the tax bills tend to be
sent out later than they should. This causes confusion with
other localities. Other Virginia jurisdictions are well aware‘
of the personal property tax laws and most are cooperative
when infonned of the situation. The largest jurisdiction in
Virginia, Fairfax County, actually states in their tax pam-
phlet sent out with bills that students may be billed in the

I would contend that one of the major responsibilities of
a university is to prepare the student for his/her future life.
Ihope that years from now you won't be able tosay that you
learned how to pick and choose which taxes you should pay,
or methods of avoiding lawful taxes, at Washington and
Lee. Let's put this issue behind us and get on with solving

amendment to the , state constitution
would, in its own Words, declare ho-
mosexuality “abnormal, wrong, un-
nanrral, and perverse.” It threatened to
make same-sex parenting illegal, pro-
hibit queer schoolteachers, and strip
homosexuals of state business licenses.
No restriction of anyone's rights there.

MerryCliristmas,Common Ground,
and to your view of the world, a good

night.

As ever,
Niall MacKenzie '93

Big 4 Elections

Petitions for the election of Ex-
ecutive Committee president, vice
president and secretary, and ‘Stu-
dent Coriduct Committee president
are due Feb. 1. The elections will
be held Feb. 8.

Republicans

College Republicans will hold
an open meeting on Wednesday,
Jan. 13, in the Mock Convention
office. There will be a platform
discussion on taxes.

EC Budget

The EC, in an attempt to pre-
vent budget overruns in various
student organizations, will hold two
interim budget meetings with the
treasurers and presidents of each
group. Atthese hearings, the offic-
ers will be asked about activities
and funds spent to date, as well as
plansforfutureactivities. All clubs,
unless otherarrangementsaremade
with Ames Hutton. are required to
attend these interim hearings. If
these hearings are not attended, an
organization's funds will be fro-
zen at the Business Office. Ifthere
are questions or problems, contact
Ames Hutton at 463-8588.

WLUR

5 You could win two tickets and
backstage passes to see Alabama,
Diamond Rio and Michelle Wright
on Friday, Jan. 22 at the Roanoke
Civic Center. Listen to WLUR
91.5 FM starting Sunday, Jan. 10
for more details and for a chance to
win CDs and cassettes.

Internships

Washington Term Program ap-
plications are now available in.Pro- .
fessorConrrelly’s ofﬁce,C-School
room 108. and are due Jan. 11.
Internships areavailable with Con-
gress,theWhiteI-louse,thinktanks,
executive agencies, and interest
groups. They are open. to all ma-
jors and all classes. Y

Calyx Photos

Underclass pictures will be
taken on Monday, Jan. 11 in the
University Center, room 113, 10
am. - 12 noon and l p.m. - 5 pm.
Don’t be left out of the Calyx this
year!

 

PAGE 3

 

Senior Photos

Sigri-ups for Calyx Senior Pic-
tures will be in front of the Co-op
Wednesday, Jan. 13 through Fri-
day, Jan. 15 from 11 a.m. - 3 pm.
Every senior who has not had his
photo taken for the Calyx must sign
up.

e

Club LAX

Anyone interested in Club La-
crosse should show up to the first
1993 meeting, in Newcomb 7 on
Tuesday, Jan. 12 at 7 p.m. Bring a
checkbook. A

Opera

WLUR will be continue its
broadcasts of live operas from the
New York Metropolitan Opera via
tIieTexacoInterriationalRadioNet-
work this term. This weekend’s
opera is Puccini’s “Tosca” and will
be broadcast Saturday, Jan. 9 at
1:30 p.m. on WLUR 91.5 FM.

Live Drive

If you're drinking, don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates Friday and Saturdaynights
from l0 p.m. - 2 a.m. We're also
looking forvolunteers to help drive.
If interested, call Melissa or Jess at
464-4017.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will
meet Monday, Jan. 1 1 in The Ring-
tum Phi office at 8 p.m. The meet-
ing is open to the community.

The Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for
production assistants. For infor-
mation contact Rick or Cathy at
463-8581. Reporters are also
needed; contact Greg or Leigh for
 or Joyce for features at 463-

Roommates

W&L senior needs two respon-
sible W&L student roommates,
male or female, to finish a lease for
the '92-93 school year. Nit.-’.. house
on Washington Street. $200/month
(tngtgotiable). Call 463-5219 for‘

e .

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

Talkback

The Phi is looking for a responsible person with a camera
to become the new Talkback editor. Anyone interested
should call Fran at 463-8581.

On Vacation

Because of a clerical error, colunmists George Will and Christopher
Matthews could not appear in this week’s Phi. They will return next week.

‘Patriotism’ threatens democracy

MY Vrr~:w
By Brian Carpenter, ’94

Throughout the 1980s, creeping
socialism amidst the dripping, green
jungles of Nicaragua was a promi-
nent bogeyrnan of the Reagan ad-
ministration. Ortega and his band of
revolutionaries were perceived as a
threat to our country, and the admin-
istration was vocal in its condemna-
tion of the Sandinistas. The Reagan
adniinistration‘s response to the per-
ceived threat in Nicaraguan social-
ism revealed a far greater threat to
American democracy: Oliver North,
Bill Casey, John Poindexter, Robert
McFarlane, and other administration
officials who considered the laws of
our nation as applicable only to the
“little people.”

Ever-vigilant cold-warriors. the
Reagan administration saw the Marx-
ist menace everywhere. Granada was
invaded to protect U.S. students and
the Grariadians themselves from the
supposed threat of Marxism. The
“success" of the Reagan administra-
tion in Granada was not matched in
the case of Nicaragua. Congress con-
tinually opposed aid to the Contras in
Nicaragua, and eventually made it
illegal. through passage of the Boland
Amendment.

Law took second place in the value .

system of the Reagan

administration's intelligence forces.
Primary importance was placed on
the elimination of
communism and

plishments. The actions of North and
his cronies are not new. American
history has a long
tradition of fanati-

socialism through- cal patriots who use
out the world. Laws must ?PPl_3’ their patriotism to
Oliver North, to every indi- justify violating

John Poindexter,

vidual in this

laws and the Con-

Bill Casey and ev- stitution.

eryone else‘ in- country; Other‘ The“RedScare"
volveddidnotcare wise widespread after World War I
thatthelawforbade ~ led to the violation
it, they were going abuse will occur of individuals’ civil

to aid the Contras
anyway, for the
eternal struggle
against commu-
nism demanded
such action. Yet
here lies the fallacy of their argu-
ment. When the war against commu-
nism is used to justifyviolation of the
lawsof the United States, afar greater
threat to American democracy
emerges: a clique of individuals in
positions of power who consider
themselves above the law.

Laws must apply to every indi-
vidual in this country, otherwise
widespread abuse willoccurby those
who feel capable of avoiding the law.
Government officials must be held
accountable to the same strictures as
the common citizen. Ideally, they
should be held to higher strictures
because of their ability toenact large-
scale positive and negative accom-

by those who feel
capable of avoid-
ing the law.

rights, and
McCarthy's hyste-
ria of the 1950s re-
sulted in similar
depredation of the
constitution.An odd
paradox emerges: those who most
vocally proclaim themselves patri-
otsare often willingtodo unpatriotic
things to bring about their ends.

The smug satisfaction on the face
of Poindexter as he sat through the
Congressional hearings, the teary-
eyed martyrdom of Col. North as he
appealed to patriotism, blinded
Americans to what these men and
their associates represented. Claim-
ing the mantle of patriotism, these
men tried to justify their violation of
the law. The sad fact is, these men
who thought themselves above the
law pose a far greater danger to
American democracy than was ever
posed by the Sandinistas.

I7  .n« ..a ........,a '.ua<v¢w.- .-

-um.-...» 5-11*: .... .

 

 

PAGE 4

The Ring-tum Phl, January 7, 199

FEATURES     -

ebruary 2 — Senior Class President and

Student Conduct Committee Member
Read Folline is charged with driving under
the inﬂuence.

February 3 — The Rockbridge County

arch 7 — Mock Convention declares
Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton the V
Democratic presidential nominee on the -‘
first ballot. Speakers at the 1992 MC in-
. . . clude former Speaker of the House Tip
gmld J“’Y mdlcls f°”“e" VMI cad“ Chad O’Neil,former Massachusetts Gov. Michael .

Hudmnr °n Charges °f ’3P°- 5°d°mY~ gmnd Dukakis and New’York Gov. Mario Cuomo.
larceny and two counts of breaking and __ ,1

entering. March 11 — Hudnall is ac- _l"' ‘

anuary 9 — The Delta Tau

DeltaHouse Corporation tem- ,
porarily suspends the frateriiity’s _ ' '
participationintlieFraterr1ityRe— \
naissance Program after vandal-
ism to the house. The W&L li- ~
brary names its newly computerized catalog
“Annie.”

 

The

 

 

January 10— Women’s Rush begins with , , .n d f . d .
3» $‘i.‘:3::‘:i}E,::£i?:fi‘:.‘ft‘i“c‘?’§;:i‘:r‘i’?§°%I“w‘i.‘: 2:a..:ui:.»:2*i:a:ir - »
S°'°my’ 1 em " was tortured and killed in Peru in 1989 while in her dormitory Oct 13- .
investigating drug trading.
. ebruary 15 — The
9 J anuary 23 — Delt officials say they B°a’d°,fTm5“?°5 3P‘
will dispute the chapter’s suspension. P"°"°5 3 ““"°“ hike °f
ForrnerPresident of Costa Rica Oscar Arias 5-5 P‘?"°°m and me °°“'
lectures on “Security in the Post-Cold War 5“'“°”°“ °f an $800900
Brag» art gallery on the Colonnade. 3
ish prime Minister Margaret Committee reduces Delt's punishment
1-hatehe, lectures at VM1_ for vandalizing its house to a one-year
suspension and three subsequent years
of critical probation.
  4
February 27 — Law School students ‘
sweep run-offs.BobTompkins is elected 9 ‘
EC secretary and Reggie Aggarwal is * _
elected SCC chairman.

l t

M arch 2 -'I'he W&L faculty gives the I ' ’

Panhellenic Council a vote on the .

the Student Affairs Committee but pre- I
vents students from getting majority con-
trol of the committee by adding another
faculty member. .
_ . _ March 5 - After a six-month self-evalu-
anuary 29 -The jurisdiction of the Con- ation the Confidential Review Commit- >-
ﬁdential Review Committee and the Stu- tee reveals its proposed plan that includes
dent Conduct Committee in sexual assault the statement that W&L is not bound by ‘
cases are among the topics discussed at a the First Amendment and may legally
. . meeting with students and the CRC. suppress student speech. .
A      January 30 - Delt cleans up its house and is '
drafting an appeal of its suspension.
     ebruary 10——JuniorJosh McFarland h 27 _ Th
 ed   1 9 9 2 F is elected Executive Committee presi- taggme of Fancf,  
V  . dent and sophomore Ames Hutton wins the - _ '
p J anuary 17—'I‘he Student Affairs Com- office of vice presidem D1’?-55 1992 Cele-bl'3U“8 the 1 ~ v

500th anniversary of Chris-

mittee suspends Delt from campus for _  e
topher Columbus’ re-dis- he, .79“

five years for vandalizing its house over a
10-week period.

February 12——Acommitteeof the Virgina
House of Delegates shoots down abill that covery of the Americas is

would have spared students who live out- “A Return Voyage to the Age of Explora
of-state from Lexington’s car tax. tion,”

February 13 —— Mock Con- March 15 — Sigma Phi Epsilon's ii
vention nabs New York Gov. . sync team of Stickboy and the Catvmk ~’
Mario Cuomo for keynote ad- wins MTV’s Lip Service contest i ‘
dress. Daytona Beach, Fla.

January 20 — This year’s
_ Founders’ Day commemo-
. rates not only Robert E.
I Lee’sbirthdaybuttlie100th
 anniversary of Omicron
~ Delta Kappa‘s founding.

   

.. ....... ,; -. ,,  ., ...... ..,._a.4‘ ..,.  --- ->-- -- '7‘----> ~ r ~~- - —----~-- v -~ ~ ----M

CRAFTS PLUS. INC.

GAMES. HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5
31 S.Main St., Lexington 463-3355

__,..___....V.—.. _. ~.-._ ‘V’ ~_.-.,-,. .....,..- N...  .. .,.. .-.. _ :';_.'_J —
. u

W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for’
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barbershop
22 S. Main St., Lexinton - Below First American Bank

lUNlIRS]I'll‘Y

SPURTWEAR

15 w. WASHINGTON ST ‘'
LEXINGTON, VA 24450
703 464-3000

Now Carrying Merrell Hiking Boots

  
    

 
 

dale - - nd Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

     
   

   

463-7969

 

  

 

   

     
     

Valley 

. , ' I I
Ladies, Shoes’ Clothmg Hardware Paint and Re ated tems

andAcceSS0nes Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.

E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1-5 p.m.

(703)463-5988 463_21 86

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
/

‘ 

\ 

f

 

.'.'.'.'.'.'-'-'1'}
._.-

W&L Art

1870 Washington College Diploma

 viep B °s.iq pz pandas .iauui([ put; ‘qounq ‘istzpleaig
 dais !~l3ll.lJ, S6°€I$ mo 3ui>1 S6'II$ ma uaenl) signed “RE be - A
 qm aulida 1li3!N Keplnms  M Lee S"“"‘“’°i”»;i:. Lee. Jr.
5555 5 Fiatgiugh Lee John Letcher
 _E  S -)[3UJ 9[0[[M  -}[3BH   M.Miley Edward Valentine *1
 9l(l9l939A is mmodio 93!0ll3 - 1ll3!NOﬂﬂ1ll3!N53PS9"P9AA  ‘”%vL&i°§§§’£¥%fie’§‘i§,?.‘f:a23i:?;§°;2t’°° -
  Sculptures by Ron Tunison

2-er-s

557$ 123 neg)-[1-[IV °u1°d z 01 'tu'e 3 iayng 1se_p[ea.ig[ Kepung
*3 66'l7$ WEI “3C)'fl'llV
‘um 17 01 °tu'd [1 1q3§N KBp.In1BS zg Kepi.I_g1a1;ng[1s1ap[ea.ig

V. ”?“2

George and Mary Washington pieces

' *‘ 

i”iii"niimunu5 .
unuutu

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450

L (703) 464-6464

L

Open Monday - Saturday
10 am. - 5:30 p.m. *

‘-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-:.-.-.=-:.-.-:.-.-

    
 
  
 

 

.- - - - — i - -I - - - - Q - - - - 3 - - - - — - -U ‘
d_ _ e STUDENT SERVICES IBOX l792ll.PLANlATION.FL 3331 . .
CILI lOtl'OI'IlCS of I I
N h tw rm t l d d
 - wow — <=~= we ......r... .:;.rg;:::..::t:. .;;.:....v:..":.°:.:.°°.:§;‘.::c.“.:.*.» . Y ES! uwmewszwmsrmcmn; cm .
DENON SONY credit cards" In your name. EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards, Enclosed nnd S 5 which is 100% refundable if not I
ADcoM ALPINE CREDIT or wwr: BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . appmed ,mmed,ate,y_ . T
,'é’§”'°‘ 'é'Vf,',‘,“”” visas and MastcrCard0 the cricdlt cards you I I
BOSTON DEFINH-NE desenic and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMl-IN!‘ | NAME 3 b
 wow .Mm.r.3a:;*_*i22*;:::'r.::r.ii:".;: - ADDRESS -*
- SPEAKERTRADE up PROGRAM I . I
. BUYERPROTECHON PLAN HOTELS-MOTELS—GAS-CAR RENTALS-
- cARiNs'rALLAnoN osmzmsur REPAlRS—AND T0 atnu) voun CREDIT RATING! I CITY STATE _ ZIP I ,
3 i73é‘§?n"»§§§5iV<'§s‘r§§§L‘§s ' 5 I
- MASTERCARD /VISA/DISCOVER vﬂmﬁiu '   ' r
6 “g - 3 '
_ 7 cs Iio credit SIGNATURE I ~
(800) 468 666 glI|*s‘:3‘\““ N0 SBCIIVWY IIEDOSIII! ' Norm Masiaoud Isl iqismed tndernult arnsueioni Inusmuon-L Inc. I
°°"‘°' °f °9d°" 8‘ s"""°’ W‘ “:IIsI|*"“ 1 '‘c‘ I Visa Is a registered tndenmir dmsa usa. Inc and VISA Imam-non-I D ’
Overlook‘ T lewood ‘
27soog33n Ragga - Roanoke 0“ " """'°"“' a"‘°'"“"" 5““""“°“’ 5° I S°""°°' *"°°"“°" Ioo-/. ouanaursznt I
I
I - - D - I I I I 3 I Z - I 1 - I - - - - - - - J

 

E The Ring-tum PM, January 7, 1993

- FEATURES   ,7
ovember 3 — In response to a series

N of ﬁghts between students and ca-
dets, student leaders from W&L and VMI
create a judicial process to hear disputes

Colonnade Crossword

September 31 —— James Keith
Shillington, W&L’s icon of Home-
coming halftirnes and professor of chem-

istry for 38 years, lies.

S eptember 8 — A
R o c k b r i d_ g e
County grand jury re-
fuses to indict former
W&L senior Richard

ughes on attempted
rape charges.

September 10 -— After a circuit-court
order in May upholds City Registrar
Lucille J oyce’s refusal to register sec-
ond-year law student Chris Kowalczuk
to vote in Virginia, Kowalczuk ﬁles
gis intent to appeal to the Virginia
upreme Court. _ __

between students from the two
schools. W&L students both

celebrate and mourn Bill

Clinton’s presidential win.

ctober 15 — Phi DeltaTheta’s house

corporation suspends all chapter func-
tions for the remainder of fall term to
punish the chapter for damage done to
their house during Homecoming week-
end. Kappa Alpha national corporation
places the W&L chapter on social proba-
tion for the rest of fall term for violating
alcohol policy during Tear Weekend.

9%

N ovember 9 — IFC Presi-

dent Sam Rock says the
IFC should start enforcing the
guest list and “bring your own
beer” policies written in the IFC

constitution.

November 19 — A Princeton Review
survey says W&L has the most popu-
lar fraternity system in the nation.

S

men signing up.

eptember 15 — Men’s Rush kicks
off with 93 percent of first-year

September 17 -—— A Washington and

Lee chapter of The Gay and Lesbian
Alliance, open to students and alumni,
is established. Former W&L student
Charles Blakely Comer, who was con-
victed for the hit-and-nm . ‘ '

death of student Ashley ,
Scarborough, could retum

to jail for a DUI charge in

Georgia.

ctober 29 — As election day

. looms closer, 38 percent of the
student body surveyed back George
Bush, 30 percent supportBill Clinton
and 30 percent said they were unde-

November 21 —— Former W&L
economics professor E.
Claybrook Griffith dies.

December 1 —- A team of movie
producers scout W&L as a possible
location for the ﬁlm version of a novel
based on the experiences of an ex-
change student at W&L , The Foreign
Student by Phillipe Labro.

December 2 — John

ACROSS
1 Air hazard
5 Cry of woe
9 Singing voice

13 Brave man

14 Candied

15 Peruse

16 Vicinity

17 Extreme

18 Group of

musicians

19 Net fabrics

21 Servings of food
23 The Orient

25 Chair

26 Movie houses
30 Reverie

33 Unite with heat
34 Diplomacy

36 Test

38 Dial word

39 Talent hunter
41 Snow glider
42 Agitates

45 Musical sound
46 Snow vehicle
47 Scomful smile
49 Some baseball

players

51 Abound

53 Scorch

54 Wildlife tracts
58 Mystery

62 Of the mouth
63 Place of worship
65 Sight

66 Place for

grinding grain
67 Available
resources

68 Otherwise

69 Favorites

70 Lively

71 Girl

DOWN
1 Hoax
2 Only
3 Metallic
minerals
4 Green light
5 Totality
6 Strip of wood
7 Measures of
land
8 Closed tightly
9 Judge

©1992 Tribune Media Services. Inc A
Last week's answers

All Rights Reserved

10 Incline

11 Sharp flavor

12 Chances

14 Triangular
inserts

20 Dine

22 Portion

24 Stretch of
land

26 Pairs

27 Hoists up

28 Fairylike

29 Large ladle

31 Passage in a
store

32 Manufacturer

35 Long jacket

37 Movable covers

40 Fastens

43 Narrates again

44 Vaticinator

46 Shrink and
wrinkle

48 Renovate

50 Metal container

52 Confused
struggle

54 Lively frolic

55 Cleveland's
waterfront

56 Seasoning

57 Principal actor

1

59 — monster
60 Jumble
61 Frightens, in a

way
64 Social insect

Sbar, ’9 1 , returns to
W&L to autograph cop-
ies of his book, The Un-
dergraduate Almanac.

Students await the call to war

Fifty years ago: The administra_tlon_advises all stu-
dents to wait until more _informa_ti_on is given by the
governmentbefore they ]O|l'l the military or until they are
called to active duty.

Five years ago: ‘The EC receives 50-75 inquiries
from around the nation concerning W&L_’s Honor Sys-
tem afterthe s stem appeared in a syndicated column
by Michael J. cManus.

ctober 6 —'I'he SCC

votes to permanently
dismiss senior Marcus
Lamar Miller from W&L
after finding him guilty of
harassment, trespassing and
ungentlemanly conduct.

October 1 —Comer is ordered to serve
the four and a half years remaining on his
original ﬁve-year sentence for involun-
tary manslaughter. and hit and rim.

N ovember 12 — Phi Delta
'I'heta’s kitchen doors remain
closed for the rest of the semester,
despite a plea by Phi Delt parents to
reconsider the punishment by the fra-
temity house corporation.

L "' f 'ﬁ*".,"-»’ 3"," -in,?’\f'»9—":'!!YV\tE\!"'i1’4‘WK"‘F‘1T-!iV“!."V)’flV3£“*l’V’3Y"'r. -'39 'C'v""--V‘ ﬂu.’-!"".‘..'

  Wlleﬁmi
 * back %
3 fir g
as Wfiiriitir *
* Tami e

Good*Luck 3
from the *
Student

Activities

* Board a g

%

:""\r~"-ii ‘}.“P‘.' -.-',X:'t—'.m. ,' .‘ I ... $7i;"..liR’¢t‘€?

rs OIIRPAR v
AND WE’ll BUY
IFWE wAilr to.

One Day Only

January 15th, 1993

11 amto7pm

*

It's our anniversary,
but you get the gift.
Buy your favorite
footlong Subway
sub and we'll give
you a second one -
FREE. At Subway,
we really know how

 ..._Z:. ;:.'."_,...‘.,;_‘_.;':._.;-: ..‘.  ‘ I_.:‘.;‘. -35

BUY ANY
I REGULAR
I F00'l'l0|lG

SIIB GET
I OIIEIOF

EQIIAI.
VALIIE

*3

‘Second footlong sub must be of equal or lesser price.
Limit: One coupon per customer per visit. Not good in H
combination with any other offer. Offer expires: 1-15-93.

503 E. Nelson Street, Lexington

463-3322 I  
Open ‘til Midnight
7 Days A Week! I

*

es

  a

 

Welcome
Back!

PAGE 6

Swimmers
prepare for
first meets
after break

By Krzmr GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
swim teams have had parallel
1992-93 seasons. Both enter
winter semester undefeated
and both kick it off with a meet
on Saturday versus Catholic
University.

In addition, both coaches
feel confident about their
teams’ chances Saturday.

“Weshoulddowellagainst
Catholic. They’re about our
size,” said women’s coach
Kristin Jacobs.

Jacobs’ squad dominated
their first two meets of the
season, but she is concerned
thatthereareonlyeightwomen
on the team. Catholic, though,
onlyhas 11, so Jacobs doesn't
think the numbers will be a
factor for this meet.

Men’s coach Page
Remillard is hoping his team

 

Prlnce

Jacobs is also very happy
with her team. Although se-
nior Claire Dudley, sopho-
more Susan Fisher, and fresh-
man Rebekah Prince have
been dominant in their events,
every swimmer has performed
up to expectations, she said.

“We’re doing great with
such a small team, but our
numbers will probably hurt us
against Georgetown,” which
has a much larger team than
the Generals, Jacobs said.

The women are in a very
similar situation to last year,
when the Generals nearly
swept the ODAC Tournament
but couldn’t manage enough
points to beat all of the larger
schools.

“We can probably walk in
and win most of the events,
but the outcome will depend
upon how the other schools
score against each other,” said
Jacobs.

remembers last year's loss to
Catholic.

“We didn‘trespond like we
usually do,” Remillard said
about last year's meet with
Catholic.

“We’re hoping to put up
the competitive effort we’re
capable of putting up. There’s
a lot of competitiveness on
this team. Every day is like the
ninth inning and all of these
guys want to be the pitcher.”

Remillard is pleased with
his 3-0 team, but remain cau-
tious about Saturday.

“It’1l be our first test in a
month,” he said. “Some of the
guys are going in with strong
training, some missed it, some
are coming off of injuries. "

Remillard said who wins
will depend upon how each
can cover their weakness.

“We don't like losing and
so far we haven’t.”

   
 
  

 
  
  

OUTLETS

30 South Main Street Downtown Lexington
\ Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 463-9730

   

(Fall Fashions For “The Student Body. ”\
50°/o-80% Off
Every Day

TGIF

up your résumé

The Ring-tum Phi

wants help for winter term:

Reporters .
Ad Salesmen
Production Assistants
T alkback Editor/Photographer
Editorial Page Assistant

S

(11112 ilting-tum iﬁlti

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

By SEAN 0’RoUru<r2
Phi Sports Editor

The best way to characterize
the Generals’ basketball season
so far is by using the Coney Is-
land Cyclone.

You know the Cyclone—the
world’s most famous roller
coaster. Well, the Generals have
been following that kind of trip
nine games into the season.

W&L started off the 1992-93
season on fire. They were 3-1
after a long and draining road
trip, and it seemed the team was

going to prove many of their‘

doubters wrong.

But the team has hit one of
those nasty drops with the wicked
turn. The Generals dropped four
straight and then faced a month-
long hiatus. Not what a strug-
gling team needs.

But head coach Verne
Canﬁeld has seen the month-long
break before and he knows how
to handle it.

Canﬁeld workedhis team hard
to get back the lost conditioning
and was confident they were
ready for the Millsaps Majors

Wrestlers ready for the second-season-

last night.

W&L started out strong, tak-
ing an early seven—point lead
against the Majors, but could not
sustain the effort and fell 72-71.

“[We played] exactly like a
team off for a month,” said
Canﬁeld. “We seemed fatigued:
mentally, emotionally and physi-
cally. We did things we usually
never do.”

What the game basically came
down to was free throws. The
Generals ﬁnished 4-for-12 from
the charity stripe, while Millsaps
went 17-for-19, going 15-for-15
in the second half.

But Canﬁeld felt the lay-off
also hurt the team chemistry.

“We didn't show any team
chemistry. There were never ﬁve
guys playing together,” Canfreld
said.

It lack of the team playing
together was evident late when
the Generals tried to come from
behind but had a difficult time
getting their offense together.
They just never seemed to be in
unison.

The roller coaster doesn't get
any tamer with Roanoke College
storming into Warner Center on

W&L’s ‘Bryan Watkins (22) drives to the hol

thou n he dldn’t start, Watklns finished with 20 points, helped by a 5-for-9 performance
from outside the 3-point are. 1

Saturday. The Maroons walloped

Millsaps less than week ago, 108--
71

'Canﬁeld knows what it’s go-
ing to take to even stay with the

 

This Week:

 

Bball-RC 7:30 1/9;MWC 7:30 1/11;
Lynchburg 7:30 1/13
Swim-Catholic 2:00 1/9 (M&W);
at Mary Baldwin 1/13 (W)
Wrestling—Davidson 12:00 1/9

Maroons.

“They are one of the two best
teams in the ODAC. They are a
very good basketball team, so we
are going to have to find some-

JANUARY 7,/1593

Generals fall jut hrt, -71

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi
e against Millsaps’ Brent Wilson. Even »

thing in the ‘intangible’ areg,”

Canﬁeld said.

“If they can beat us by 40
they’re going to try for 50. We
have to come ready to play.”

  
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
     
   
   
 
  
   

   

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

   
  

in their meet with Newport News Appren-

Fortunately, freshman Owen Smith and
tice, and it followed that the team was

looks for his team to be competitive at the
sophomore Adam Williams have returned

weights they do compete in.

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team now has a clearer understanding of
the challenges before them -in 1993.

However, despite the young

talent, the year will most likely be a test of

the tearn’s resolve and patience.

W&L had to forfeit four weight classes

: 4ooo+

The Phi uses Aldus PageMaker, Mi-
crosoft Word, DeltaGrap[t and Aldus
Freehand. Proficiency in at least one
of these programs is expected in the

business world today!

I

F ______ __\

| could be reading
I your
in this space.

   

soundly defeated, 52-6.

“It wasn't an eventful day for the Gen-
erals,” head coach Gary Franke said.

The Generals will continue to forfeit
these matches in each meet for the re-
mainder of the season. Franke has no
bodies to wrestle at the 118, 177, 190 and
heavyweight weight classes.

from injuries which kept them out of the
previous two matches.

Rob Sands distinguished himself by
placing sixth at the season—opening Leba-
non Valley Invitational. Sands was the
only General to place in the Invitational.

Even though W&L will only compete
in six of the ten weight classes, Franke

“We’ve seen some nice things [and
even without the four forfeits] we should
have been more competitive in the Lebt
non Valley Tournament than we were.”

The Generals will have a chance to
show their entire line-up at this Sunday’s
meet in the Warner Center against

Davidson.
7

      
          
        
       

team's

        
       
        
      

   

COUNSELORS: Camp Wayne, co-ed children’s camp,

Northeastem Pennsylvania. June 22 - August 20, 1993.

Positions include: Tennis, Golf, Swim (W.S.I. preferred), Waterski, Sailing,
Basketball, Volleyball, Softball, Soccer, Gymnastics, Aerobics, Drama,

    

eyes

   
 

‘gr W-4

‘Z’

J-
“P
or 53
é‘
V

Nature/Carnping, Guitar, Batik, Dance/Cheerleading, Sculpture, Ceramics,
Painting, Silkscreen, Photography, Self-Defense. Other positions available. -7 T
On campus interviews Thursday, February 4, 1993. '1;
For more Information, call 516-889-3217 or write 12 Allevard St., 04¢‘

I
l
I
ad I
l
I
I

Q
Lido Beach, NY 11561. Include your school phone number. PEOPLE

 
   
     
   
   
   
   
    
 

  

iHlENl]S lll]N'l lil illliNl]S Ulillli UHUNK

   

‘to

 
 

'=‘!o! us. Depanmem or Ttanspoﬂanon

    
 

