    

be ;_' 

"“‘riov 1 6 1992

V

TURN IT UP

Get The Scoop
On The Latest Releases
From Three Hot Bands

Generals Go For Six -

W&L football faces Hoyas,

look to post best record
since 1985

§

Lltitt

-tum Iﬂlti

  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
   

VOLUME 92, NO. 10

Phi Delt
sentence
upheld

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

19m DeltaTheta’s kitchen doors will
emain closed for the rest of the semes-
er, despiteaplea by PhiDeltparents to
econsider the punishment by the fra-
*~emity house corporation.

According to Dean of Students
David Howison, the house corporation
ooQtime to reconsider the punishment
after parents of Phi Delt members com-
ulained that the decision was too harsh.
. ' The house corporation’s decision
‘_ to revoke Phi Delt’s dining privileges
u d suspend social functions came af-
ter a $500 chair was broken and bath-
ooh: stall partitions were pulled down
on Homecoming weekend.

. Phi Delt House Corporation Presi-
dent John McIntyre said the house cor-
poration seriously considered the par-
ents’ concerns, but said the house had
to remain shut down.

‘We decided for lots of reasons to
tay on the course we had previously
set,” McIntyre said.

But Phi Delt parent Frank Surface
said Monday that the punishing pro-
" cess was unfair.

“From what I’ve heard, it seems
awﬂilly harsh,” Surface said. ‘ ‘ I don’t
see how they can really judge what
happened when [the house corpora-
tion] is not a group tl1at’s even on
campus.”

Phi Delt President Jim Eddings said
the case is closed.

..“We’re just looking forward to

January.”

I’

Scholars to continue, for now

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi
University President John D. Wilson explains W&L’s mission statement Wednesday night.

Wilson sees slow growth

priority on the university’s agenda, but the sports facilities
and fields also need minor improvements.

Wilson said the university’s mission statement is in-
tended to help W&L “find itself in the huge, sprawling,
untidy system of higher education in the United States.”

Wilson said he does not believe minority or women's
studies departments have a place at W&L.

“Our attempt to develop and study those areas within our
main-1 ine ﬁelds is far preferable to having individual depart-
ments,” Wilson said.

One questioner asked Wilson whether the fraternity
system would ever be returned to complete student control.

“We had a period of 25 years where there was very little
responsibility to thepphysical structures [in the fraternity’
houses] ,” Wilson said. "If the real question is whether or not
we will go back to the old days when you could tear the heck
out of the house—no.”

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

University President John D. Wilson told a crowd of 35
Wednesday night that, after a decade of revolutionary
changes, he forsees only “evolutionary development” in
W&L’s future.

In a Graham—Lee-Washington Society discussion about
the university’s mission statement, Wilson said that after
coeducation, the creation of two new science majors and the
construction of Gaines Hall and the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts, only small improvements in the university
are left to make. 

“I see a period of slow, deepening, evolutionary devel-
opment,”.Wilson said.

Wilson said the creation of a science center is the first

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 12, 1992

Police record
student tags
for car tax

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

Just how far will Lexington go to
assess the car tax on students?

They could be breaking the law.

Washington and Lee University

A senior John Godfrey said he saw a city

police officer in a university parking
lot, recording license plate numbers.

Godfrey said when he attempted to
drive out of the parking lot the police
officer blocked his exit with the police
car, until he could write down the li-
cense plate number. Godfrey said at
the time he didn’t believe the ofﬁcer
had done anything wrong, but when he
spoke to friends he began to wonder
about the policeman’s actions.

W&L Director of Security Mike
Young said the university allows po-
lice on university property anytime.

“We depend on the Police Depart-
ment to help us out, so we let them on
our property,” he said.

W&L Professor of Law Scott

. Sundby said the policeman was within

the limits of the law when he was in the
W&L parking lot.

“It’s not illegal for him to write
down the [license plate] numbers,”
Sundby said. “That’s why they make
[license plates].”

Sundby said the policeman acted
incorrectly when he blocked Godfrey’s
exit from the parking lot.

“That is essentially a seizure,”
Sundby said. “You have to have some
suspicion to make a seizure. It's a tech-
nical violation of the Fourth Amend-
merit.”

Although policemen are allowed on
university property, Sundby said, they
are not allowed on private property
without an invitation or a warrant.

“You’d hear a hue and cry if
homeowners found police ofﬁcers in
their driveways,” Sundby said.

Lexington police Chief B.M. Beard
refused to comment on the situation,
saying he would need more details and
proof that it actually happened.

University President John D. Wil-
son said he could not comment on the
officer’s actions because he did not
know the officer’s intentions.

Wilson acknowledged police can
getstudent license plates numbers while
on campus, but said he would not help
the police in their search.

“I’m not going to turn over our ‘

registration list to the commissioners
office,” Wilson said.

Lexington Commissioner of Rev-
enue Courtney Baker said she gives
police a list of places to look.

“We’re not doing anything in the
dark here,” Baker said. “We have al-
ways used every resource possible to
make the assessments. I don't think it's
unreasonable to expect people to pay a
tax on a car if they have it here most of
the year.”

By GREGORY PATTERSON

to kill the program, many current scholars partments to see if they serve the same pur-

 

Phi News Editor

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 

The University Scholars program will con-
tinue to operate and accept new members
while a committee decides its fate.
‘At a Nov. 2 meeting, the faculty did not
vote on a motion introduced last month to
eliminate the program. Instead, a committee
A of faculty and students was formed to study
the program and recommend in the spring
. whether it should be continued.
“The committee will study all the possible
i midifications of the program,” Scholars advi-
. sor John Evans said.
At the October faculty meeting, the Courses
and Degrees Committee recommended elimi-
' nating the program because it was not fulﬁll-
ing its original purpose. In its evaluation, the
committee surveyed professors and graduates
ofihe program, but not current students.
According to the W&L Catalog, the hon-
ors program provides “extra challenge and
opportunity” for qualified students, who take
discussion seminars and must write an honors
thesis. Students who complete the program
graduate with the notation “with honors” on
tlpir transcript.
After hearing about the recommendation

 

voiced their opposition. Dean of the College
John Elrod said the protests weighed heavily
in the decision to table the recommendation.

“It caused the committee to think twice,”
Elrod said.

Elrod said the new committee, which in-
cludes six professors and three students, will
first have to think
about the nature of
honors work.

_“Before they
think about the
University Schol-
ars specifically,
they should think
from the ground up
about what honors
work should be at
the collegiate
level,” Elrod said.

Then, Elrod
said, the commit-
tee will have to
compile data about the University Scholars’
history, such as the number of people who
have completed the program and what grades
they have received.

Elrod said the committee will also exam-
ine honors programs within individual de-

Jackson

 

. All Freshman Women
Lambda Chl Alpha
Non-Fratemlty

Sigma fhl Epsllon
Kappa Sigma

Freshman mid-term grades

pose as the University Scholars program.

Meanwhile, Evans said, students will con-
tinue to be admitted to the program.

“The program will continue in its present
form,” Evans said. If the new committee does
decide to eliminate University Scholars,Evans
said, the program will be phased out, rather
than abruptly stopped, so all members will be
able to graduate from the program.

Evans said applications are being accepted
from next year’s freshman class, but current
freshmen and sophomores may also apply
before Thanksgiving.

Students are usually admitted to the Uni-
versity Scholars program before entering fresh-
man year, though freshmen and sophomores
are admitted to the program during the year.

Elrod said the committee will report its
findings in the spring to the Courses and
Degrees Committee, which will make a rec-
ommendation to the full faculty.

Scholar Matt Jackson said he was relieved
about the decision and said he hopes the result
of the study will be a new and improved
program.

“I think we showed a willingness, not just
to preserve the program, but to work with
professors to mold it and make it better,”
Jackson said.

.973
2.829

By J .D. LOWRY
Phi Law School Writer

2784 ‘
2.772
2.724 '

Over two months after it began, the 1992 John W. Davis
Moot Court Competition will finally come to a close next

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi

Movin’ on up

Workers begin to raise the roof on the Watson Gallery Wednesday. The
oriental art gallery is due to be completed in the spring.

Law students clash in Mootcourt finals

A lay student’s guide to the games

our nation's judicial system. Besides, it’s fun to
go and watch to see if anyone really screws up or,
alternately, remains unfazed by technical prob-
lems beyond their control.

By J .D. Lowrw
Phi Law School Writer

0 Sigma Alpha Epsilon
PI Kappa Alpha

Phi Kappa Psi

Chi Psl

Sigma Chi

All Freshman Men
Kappa Alpha

All Freshman Pledges
Slgma Nu

Phi Delta Theta

Phi Gamma Delta

Phi Kappa sigma

Pl Kappa Phi

Beta Theta Pl

2.714
2.712
2.671
2.637‘
2.597
2.592
2.588 '
2.561
2.535’
2.451
2.372
2.35
2.252
2.205

2 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 3
Grade Point A verage

Statistics provided by the Dean of Students Ollice
with the permission of the lnterlraternlty Council

 

Thursday when four finalists argue a fictional Supreme
Court case.

Virginia Supreme Court Chief Justice Harry Carrico,
North Carolina Supreme Court Chief Justice James Exum
and Florida Supreme Court Justice Leander Shaw. will
preside over the final rounds of the competition, which pits
law students against one another in the fictional case of Holy
Fundamentalist Church v. City of Danburg. The finals will
be Nov. 19 at 4 p.m. in the Lenfest Center.

The competition is named for John W. Davis, aW&L law
professor in the 1950s. Davis is best known today for
representing the school board in Brown v. Board of Educa-
tion, the landmark Supreme Court desegregation case.

Forty-eight second- and third—year law students partici-
pated in this year’s competition, which began Sept. 3. with
a round of arguments before student judges.

This year’s problem involves a decision by the fictional
City of Danburg to allow a Jewish Community Center to
display a menorah on city property during Hanukkah.

The Holy Fundamentalist Church sued to stop the city
from allowing the display. The church argues that by allow-
ing the display the city was endorsing the Jewish religion.
The city contends refusal to allow the display would violate
the Jewish Community Center’s freedom of speech.

If you go to Thursday’s final rounds in the ,
John W. Davis Moot Court Competition expect-
ing a coherent and thought-provoking debate,
you are likely to be sadly disappointed.

The point of Moot Court competition is to give .
competitors the opportunity to learn how to argue
an appellate case, which is by no means an orderly
process. Appellate advocates must be able to
think on their feet and answer, with speed and
precision, questions posed by the judges relating
to the subject matter of their arguments, usually in
mid—sentence.

The questions and the arguments are highly
specific. For the spectator, this boils down to one
statement of cruel truth: If you haven't done the
research yourself, you probably aren’t going to
understand much of what’s going on.

This warning is not meant to discourage any-
one from attending the Davis ﬁnals. For those
contemplating acareer at the bar, observation of
the finalists as they nimbly field obtuse questions
about minute points of law will provide a wonh—
while glimpse at the actual processes underlying

Many law students believe Doug Kilday got a
serious edge in last year’s competition when the
bells in Lee Chapel started ringing during his
argument . He remained calm, didn’t lose his train
of thought and he won. (Unfortunately, this year’s
competition is being held in the Lenfest Center,
so no one will be ableto repeat this coup de grace.)

If you’re interested in constitutional law and
want to try to follow the arguments, here are some
keycases and phrases to listen for:

The three-pronged Lemon test. No, it isn’t a
weird method of telling fortunes with fruit or
anything like that. Law students love multi-
pronged tests of applicability, and this year's
Moot Court problem offers a doozy. The case of
Lemon v. Kurtzman offers a mechanism for courts
to deal with an Establishment Clause challenge.
Government activity may be continued without
violation of the Establishment Clause if it has a
secular purpose, if its principal or primary effect
is not to advance or inhibit religion, and if it does

CI See GUIDE, page 5

 

PAGE 2

  

filriz iaing-tum iﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Leave honor
to the students

The Board of Trustees met two weeks ago in Atlanta. On the
agenda was the traditional Executive Committee report on the Honor
System, which always draws the attention of the board. But this time the
report received more attention than usual.

We would like to have reported in the news pages exactly what
happened. The problem is, we don’t know. And neither, it seems, does
anyone else. Versions of that weekend vary from person to person, and
all the more from day to day.

Included in EC President Josh MacFarland’s report to the .
Board of Trustees was an account of last year’s only open hearing, in
which a student was dismissed.

It just so happens that the dismissed student has a relative in the
university's alumni administration. We do not know if there is a connec-
tion, but members of the Board of Trustees apparently received a number
of letters questioning the outcome of the case. (The dismissed student
said last week she has no knowledge of this subject relative to the Board
of Trustees.)

According to several students, many alumni in the dismissed
student’s home state were also contacted and asked to participate in an
effort to have her conviction reversed and to have her reinstated at the
university.

Here’s where it gets sketchy.

One source told us that in Atlanta the board actually discussed
finding a way to return the dismissed student to the W&L classroom. The
debate may have gotten as far as a vote. MacFarland appropriately
objected, and the motion was rejected.

On the other extreme, a second version of the story says that the
board dutifully passed along the letters questioning the case’s handling
to MacFarland and the EC. The board said it would never presume to
affect the Honor System, giving the student government the option of
ignoring the letters, considering them, acting on them or whatever.

And there is a third story, which says adminstrators, and
possibly the Board of Trustees, discussed allowing the dismissed student
back at W&L to audit courses unofficially. Whether any board or EC
action would have been necessary for this option is unclear.

(You might be interested to know that the first two scenarios
came from the same person in one 24-hour period.)

It could be the death knell for the student-autonomous Honor
System if the Board of Trustees or university administration were to take
any action running contrary to the letter or spirit of the White Book. The
Executive Committee and the Honor System are the only branches of
student government in which the university faculty and administration
have not meddled, be the meddling for better or worse. According to at
least one version of the story, MacFarland recognized this and prevented
any further incursion into the students’ self-govemment. If this was the

case, we appreciate MacFarland’s actions. .
But we would like to suggest that the very fact that the board,
the administration or alumni may have considered altering or circum-

venting the Honor System is a threat to that system. The report of the EC (
president to the board on the Honor System_ should not provoke disc't_is- ‘
sion of any specific case unless thereis evider'ice’of some extraordinary I

miscarriage of justice. Even then, any decision regarding the fate of the
Honor System or any honor matter previously handled by student
representatives should be made with due discussion in an open forum
where student voices carry equal weight.

The future of the Honor System should never be discussed
behind doors closed to all students. Likewise, once a case goes to open _
hearing, it should never be re-adjudicated in a less-tlian-open hearing
room. The Board of Trustees and the university administration must
remember that the Honor System was created as a student check on
student behavior. It has become apparent to us that many university
officials, in Lexington and elsewhere, do not feel bound by our ideal of
honesty. It seems hypocritical that those same officials should presume
to alter a tradition they neither comprehend nor practice.

Quote of the Week

Hello, you've reached the Institution for the Sexually Frustrated Pyro-
necro-beastiphiliacs. As soon asI'mdone with this ﬂaming dead cat, I ' 11
call you back.

— W&L students’ answering machine message

When you say one thing, but you mean a mother.
— definition of a Freudian slip, courtesy of Cliff at Cheers

Clip: iktng-tum lﬁlti

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor. ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phi1 Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Wl1itney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._. . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ri/ng-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia ,

24450

 

   

,--V

i\\i{{‘\.
.. “W.

E—«-,- j ,
E55 .t;1;.~,

FEE x.‘oa‘.:.
(«E2-'11:.-’~'-3
taéi x71’-

5'1: /’ 

6.--._=_ -

\=.5..'=\

".=\ /
¢._‘,‘_\ 4/.
\"-\

'\

_lr Xi‘. \‘
gas“ 7''‘!

 
    
  
 
  

  
  

Clinton needs to read lips

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS

Tribune Media Services

Little Rock, Ark.—In the earlymoming hours
after victory here, Bill Clinton arrived tortur-
ously late to a rally of campaign workers. With
confetti clinging to his coat, the President-elect
came to seal a covenant: he would not become, he
swore, yet another prisoner of the White House.
He would retain the umbilical cord between
himself and the people who had nurtured and
protected his candidacy.

This post-midnight oath at the Little Rock
convention center is the most worthy promise of
the 1992 campaign. Rather than command we

read his lips, the new leader committed himself to it

read ours. ~

But who will make sure that he does? Plenty
of Washington, D.C. barbers stand ready to cut
Bill Clinton’s thick hair. Who stands ready to
keep the new President’ s head
itself from getting too inﬂated
and out of control; too in love
with the notion of a second
Camelot?

Who will whisper to him
beneath the lilting strains of
“Hail to the Chief” that the
music and the big-picture
summitry and the White
House itself are incidental to
the job of rescuing the Ameri-
can dream?

The likely suspects are
those same, feet-on-the-
ground folk who helped

right.’

 

‘He ran an outstand-
ing campaign,’ Dan
Quayle said of the
Democratic President-
elect. ‘If he runs the
country as well as the
campaign, we’ll be all

Wise words.

Stan Greenberg. Two hours later, Clinton and Al
Gore appeared outside the govemor’s mansion
wearing the dark blue suits of office. The impres-
sion was unmistakable. The grubby business of
politics and elections was being left to the grunts;
the fine business of government was being taken
up by less soiled hands.

We've seen something like this before. Four
years ago, after winning a brass knuckle bout with
Michael Dukakis, the winner declared the carn-
paigri “history” and moved briskly to a more
pleasant topic, George Bush’s own long-awaited
succession to the office Ronald Reagan had been
keeping from him the last eight years.

The seeds of Bush’s political destruction were -
, planted that very day. Having won the presidency
with the help of Peggy Noonan‘, the eloquent I

speechwriter who’d grown up in the Sears Roe‘-
buck suburbs of New Jersey, and Lee Atwater,
who had made his name running South Carolina
campaigns against people named Tumipseed, he
turned to others when he took
office. Bush shifted power to
people like Nicholas Brady,
his new treasury secretary;
Richard Darman, his new
budget director; people with
neither feel nor fondness for
Americans who, unfamiliar
with the grand ﬁscal matters
of state, are nonetheless all
too familiar with less celes-
tial realities, like telling a
teen-ager there’s not enough
money for that college he’s
been dreaming about.

Clinton get there, that

youngish team who kept the

election ’s central issue theirown irreverent motto:
“The economy, stupid!”

The danger lurks that these roughnecks of the
campaign trail will be bumped aside by those
more groomed to the ways of official Washing-
ton, just as a group of Clinton-Gore aides went to
their favorite Little Rock eatery one night last
week to find their favorite room reserved for the
newly-arrived crowd of “FOBS” or “Friends of
Bill.” Suddenly those who worked to put Clinton
in the White House were sensing the chilling
presence of those who’d met the candidate at
Oxford or Yale law, those with the credentials to
serve in national office yet incapable of an exis-
tential leap like those who joined the trail back
when victory seemed uncertain, if not downright
unlikely.

The day after election produced another sign
of partition between campaign and government.
At noon came a press briefing featuring casually-
dressed aides such as James “Ragin’ Cajun”
Carville, Paul Begala, Mandy Grunwald and

For his taste in company-
Ivy League, old money, so-
cially confident—George
Bush paid a price last Tuesday. The country has
paid an even higher one.

There is justice in what the voters did. They
rejected a President who was as stunned by his
first meeting with a supermarket price scanner as
Jimmy Carter appeared in an earlier election year
by a killer rabbit. He was beaten by campaign
workers aware of real people, those who don’t
dare enter a supermarket without having checked
the prices themselves and clipped the coupons
from the newspaper.

Clinton has promised to read the lips of such
folk. And if he’s smart, which he is, the Arkansas
governor will stay within complaining distance
of those campaign folks who helped put him in a
position to make, that presidential promise.

“Herananoutstanding carnpaign,”Dan Quayle
said of the Democratic President-elect. “If he rims
the country as well as the campaign, we’ll be all
right.”

Wise words.

©1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

   
 

_ 9
The Ring-tum Phl, November 12, 1992

Americans '
shrugged in a
voting booth  

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group ’

Washington—A dozen N ovembers ago, at the dawn of a

conservative presidential era, Walter Mondale, in his grace- ,

ful concession speech as vice president spoke of the majesty
of the people wielding “their staggering power.” Only four

. times in American history has one party held the preside cy

for more than 12 consecutive years (the Republicans h ve

not since 1896-1912) and this year the people's decision was «
« a kind of continent-wide shrug: Might as well try someone

else.
Sixty-two percent of those who voted, voted against the

incumbent president. But 57 percent voted against the next ‘

president. Ross Perot’s dalliance interruptus with the elec-
torate produced a plurality president. No novelty, that.
From 1824 (the first election in which most electoral
votes were determined by popular voting rather than voting
in state legislatures) through 1992 there have been 43
elections. In 15 the winner received less than a majority of
popular votes. Only four times has the winner received less

than 44 percent, but two strong presidents, Lincoln gd V
d

Wilson, received 39.8 and 41.8 respectively. Wilson
Nixon (who won a first term with just 43.4 percent) won re-
election.

Although Clinton got just 43 percent of the popular vote,

his 69 percent of the electoral votes is much better than the .

56.4 percent of the popular vote. In fact, the 1992 result
resembles the 1912 three-way race when Wilson’s 41.8
percent of the populartvote won him 81.9 percent of the

electoral votes. The disparity between Clinton’s popular .

and electoral vote percentages resembles Eisenhower's

disparities in 1952 (55.1 popular and 83.2 electoral) and v

Reagan in _1980 (50.7 popular and 90.8 electoral), two
elections when previous voting patterns were emphatically
ruptured.

In their four most recent victories prior to Tuescﬁy,

Republican presidential candidates won a stunning average -'
of 91 percent of the electoral votes—better than the 88.3 _

percent that FDR won in four victories. On Tuesday Bush
won just 31 percent. But Republican strength was already
ebbing four years ago, when Bush did worse among Demo-
crats than any. Republican had done since 1952. Dukakis,
although now derided, did unite his party, winning bacb a
majority of “Reagan Democrats” ( who were just 7 percent
of the electorate). Bush was the ﬁrst Republican to win a first
term while his party was losing strength in both the House
and Senate.

This year Bush became, in part, a belated casualty of his
greatest success, the Gulf War. His postwar popularity
convinced him he could coast to re—election, relying on his
nimbus rather than an agenda. Bush’s campaign confirmed

historian Robert Conquest’s droll law: The behavior of an '

organization often can be predicted by assuming it to be

controlled byacabal of its enemies. But Bush ’s campaign-

constant improvisation revealing consistent insincerity—

‘was condign-.punishinent‘of5the Republican Party for‘mak-
., ...--. ~ ~ ,;,_.,:.'

' ing Buslritslleader.“ ’

Democrats are government enthusiasts: They are unsu're
what justice is, but are sure that only government can deliver
it. Their activism is both a cause and consequence of
“interest-group liberalism”—belief in brokering maximum
satisfactions for the maximum number of factions. Repub-

licans, being less comfortable brokering interests, require a 3‘
higher quotient of appealing ideas, both to motivate the -, '

selves and attract supporters. Hence the party should ot

have put itself in the hands of a person so unlike the 1

“conviction politician” who preceded him in the presidency.

Bush lacked authority, a derivative of convictions con-
nected to passions. The epitaph of his presidency could be
Kingsley Amis’ pbem “The Masters”:

That horse whose rider fears to jump will fall,

Riﬂemen miss if orders sound unsure;

They only are secure who seem secure;

Who lose their voice. lose all.

As usual, and contrary to naive expectations, incumbents
were not an endangered» species on Tuesday. Only three
incumbent senators lost and 93 percent of House incum-
bents won. Those numbers explain this one: In all of the 14

states where the political class could not prevent the peorﬂe . ’

from voting on term limits for U.S. senators and represen-
tatives, the people imposed limits to enhance political
competition. As a step toward radical reform of Washin gton’s
political culture, this is potentially more important than the
presidential result.

The unsentimental cashiering of the incumbent president
expressed the electorate’s exhilarating sense that son9e
chafing restraints have been shed——a cheerful belief that
risks can be taken. Today the nation is more physically
secure from foreign attack than at any time in its 216 years.
Domestically, it is a nation with problems—but it is a
temperate, prosperous, successful nation with problems.
The importance of this election, historically, is that it was
the least important election since the 1920s. 0

The electorate seems to have cast a cold eye on govem-
ment and politicians and decided that it and they have only
limited purchase on only some problems. Hence the sense of
a nation serious but unenthralled. Hence at the end of the
campaign, the continental shrug: Might as well try someone
else.

©1992, Washington Post Writers Group 9

Students can protect Goshen Pass environment a .  

To the Editor:

LETTERS

For many students, the Goshen Pass
section of the Maury River is the ideal
place to get away from it all. With its

beautiful scenery, climbable rocks, and V

cool whitewater, it offers the ideal set-
ting to relax and return to what’s really
important.

Today, we have an opportimity to
protect this valuable resource for fu-
ture students and for future Virginia
residents. Goshen Pass is currently
under consideration for designation by
the Commonwealth of Virginia as a
protected Tier III, Outstanding Re-
source River. Basically, such a desig-
nation would preserve existing water
quality by preventing the issuance of
new permits to discharge treated or
other waste into the protected section
of the river. Existing permits would be

grandfathered into law.

The State Water Control Board is
asking interested parties to comment
on the designation through this Mon-
day. We should all write and encour-
age the State Water Control Board to
make such a designation.

In our letter, we should try to ad-
dress why we believe the Board should
make such a designation. The regula-
tion requires that a Tier III waterway
provide (1) an exceptional environ-
mental setting, and (2) either excep-
tional aquatic communities or excep-
tional recreational opportunities.
Therefore, our letters should address
the exceptional setting and recreational
opportunities available at the Pass. In

other words, simply tell the State Wa- »

ter Control Board why the Pass is so
special and important to us as students.

This designation is not without op-
position. The community of Goshen
has voiced its official disapproval of
the measure. Apparently, they believe
that designating the Pass as a Tier III
area would discourage industrial de-
velopment and prevent the construc-
tion of a sewage treatment plant in the
town.

Those in favor of the designation
rightfully disagree with the official
town position. Supporters question
whether the town of Goshen is suited
for future industrial development. A
narrow, winding highway provides the
main access to the town. In addition, as
evident from the recent factory clos-
ings in Buena Vista, the trend in this
area has been for industry to move out,
rather than move in. Consequently, if
industry looked to develop in

Rockbridge County, it probably would J

be more attracted to the recently va-
cated industrial sites just a few miles
down the road in Buena Vista.
However, even if industry decided
to develop in Goshen, the new regul -
tions would not bar upstream develop-
ment. Instead, such adesignation would
merely require industry and govem-
ment to comply with higher standards
and limitations than are currently im-
posed. In fact, the regulations autho-
rize waivers of the restrictions for im-
portant economic or social develop-
ment in the affected area. This is not a
choice between jobs and the environ:
ment. '
TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE.
Because the comment period ends this

0 See GOSHEN, page 8

 

Arnie Ring-tum Phl, November 12, 1992

OPINION

Citron regresses to years of simplicity

v-

if

5

J

I

ONE GUY’s OPINION
By Chris Citron

5

I’ve been thinking about my child-
hood recently; I don’t exactly know
the reason, but I think it’s due to my
incessant wishing that I was once again
that age. Wouldn't it be great to be
about eight years old again? And it
§Iouldn't even be necessary to know
what we know now. It would be just as
much fun living with our naive and
innocent perceptions of the world that
we had at the time. _

What did we really do? We got up,
put on the clothes that Mom got out for
3:, (I did anyway). ate a great breakfast

Mom poured out of the Life box,
(well, I did), and then were escorted to
the bus stop by Mom, to await a full six
hours of school. (What a pathetic little
Mamma’s boy I was. Actually,
nothing’s really changed since then
gxcept that now I pick out my own

lothes. Do you really think my Mom
has that bad of taste in fashion?)

And what did we do in school? A
couple of phonics lessons, a few simple
mathematics problems, perhaps learn
about the parts of a ﬂower. Pretty
Q‘ ple stuff. I specifically remember

pending about a week watching
“Charlotte’s Web” on one of those
projectors that needed to be turned at

’ the sound of the beep while a tape

0

recorder was playing. Of course, this
brilliant technology insured that no
frame would ever have the correct dia-
logue, especially when an eight year
old was tmning the

tantly, we developed unique bartering
skills thatlast withus even today. “You
gonna eat that Twinkie? I’ll give you
my grape jelly sandwich for it. No?

Well how about

frames, which made
foranextrernelylong
week. Although that
was the same week
that a girl in the class
stapled her hand
about a dozen times
on purpose, deserv-
edly winning all the
guys’ respect, and
making me curious
as to why I remem-
ber that point in
time? Wilbur or try-
ing to staple my own
hand?

So we get through
the classes and then
get to enjoy the best
part of the day: re-
cess.(Ithinkthatwas

my sandwich,
these Oreos and
this pear that you
can throw at
JoAnn later for
your Twinkie and
one Pop-Tart?
Yeah? Cool.”
Lunch traded
or eaten by the to-
ken fat kid wear-
ing“Huskies,”we
went outside to
use our newly ac-
quired weapons,
which was the
only real use for
fruit at that age.
(Pears were the
best because they
squished on con-

the largest word in

ourvocabularies at the time.) Although
lunch was pretty important too. Not
that we ever ate anything that was good
for us, but we had really cool lunch
boxes. Guys had G.I. Joe or Superhero
lunch boxes; girls had Holly Hobby or
Barbie, and if you were undecided at
the time you had something like The
Muppets. But perhaps more impor-

tact.) You had to
throw them at the girls, because they
had cooties. After you squished the
pears on them and they cried, the boys
went to play another intelligent game,
“Kill the man,” while the girls jumped
rope and sang “Cinderella, dressed in
yella, went upstairs to kiss her fella,”
etc., etc., etc. Why didthe name calling
and insulting rhymes always involve

kissing? “Graham and Jenny sittin’ in a
tree. K-I-S-S-I-N-G. First comes love,
then comes marriage, then comes Wil-
low in a baby carriage,” etc. etc. etc.
But we played those games, got grass
stains on our “Wranglers,” and finally
lined up to go back inside.

Once there,wehad two more classes
of learning how to properly use an
inside address on a letter, or went to the
library to check out books like “Where
The Wild Things Are.” Of course, if it
were Friday or the day before a break,
we might get to go to the cafeteria and
watch “Willy Wonka and the Choco-
late Factory,” which was a much better
way to end the day than learning how to
write your name in two-inch letters.

A quick bus ride home, and within
10 minutes we had our play clothes on
and kickball in hand. The hardest de-
cision carne right at this time: What do
I eat for snack? Which Pixie stick
should I swallow: grape or lime? Or
how many links should I eat off of my
edible necklace or bracelet? Seriously,
that was the biggest choice we had.
Then we played until dinner, fed our
vegetables to the dog under the table,
who didn't like them either, did our
four math problems and 10 sentences
for homework, watched “The Dukes of
Hazzard” (if it was Thursday), and
went to bed by nine. It didn't get much
easier than that.

I wish I were eight again.

D GOSHEN, From page 2

Monday, our letters should be in the
mail TODAY. Every one of us should
ﬁke fifteen minutes out of our busy
Thursday or Friday schedule and type
a letter NOW.

We have no excuse. In fact, the
W&L Environmental Law Forum will
mail the letter for you. Simply drop off
your persuasive masterpiece in the en-

gelope on the Environmental Law Fo-
rum board in Lewis Hall, near the
Alderson office, by Friday, November
13, at 4 p.m. The Environmental Law
Forum will address, stamp, and place
the letter in Friday’s mail.

If you choose to mail your letter

- yourself, the address is:
‘ Ms. Doneva Dalton

Recording Secretary

State Water Control Board

Post Office Box 11143 p , _ _

Richmond, Virginia 23230 J 

this is our opportunity to ensure that »

l A hen we retum to Rockbridge County,
Goshen Pass will be the same beautiful
and pristine area that we all remember.

Go ahead. Write a letter and make
a difference. What are you waiting
for?

Sincerely,

Adri Spain "93L

The W&L Law News Editorial
Board

The Environmental Law Forum

LETTERS

EC member criticizes subscription policy

To the Editor:

As I was perusing the last edition of The Ring-tum Phi,
I noticed for the first time that on page two it says, “Founded
September 18, l897.” This struck me because I had just
been reading about the new policy of charging faculty and
staff for the Phi. Why change something t.hat’s been work-
ing well for 95 years?! To my knowledge, no previous Phi
staff has decided to charge faculty for copies of the Phi. For
some reason, this year’s staff, headed up by the business-
like Cathy Lopiccolo, seems to think the W&L weekly
newspaper should run like the Wall Street Journal.

As an EC member, I heard about the new idea of the Phi ’s
budget allocation being thought of as a “subscription to the
student body” during the budget process. Though I thought
it was sort of silly that they wanted to change the system
around, I could see the point that the Phi wanted to free itself
from any potential EC control. Though I don’t recall this
being made clear, Iprobably assumed it would be taken out
of some sort of faculty dues, since the student’s billing is
taken out of their student activities dues. I think that if it had

. . been made clear to the EC. that faculty would actually be .

_ , 3 , .~. 9 chargeda quarter each time they went to pick upa paper, few

This is our opportunity to be heardzl» 1 members I would have approved their allocation.’ Further’-
‘more, the Phi received the same budget allocation they have V

gotten in the past. They do not even need the extra revenue
that they are seeking through charging the faculty.

The faculty and staff here, though not technically so, are
an intrinsic part of the student body of this campus. All that
this ridiculous new policy does is cause alienation between
the students and the faculty. The faculty won't buy the
papers, rightfully so, and will become more distanced from
the students with whom they seek rapport. Therefore, the
students are actually put at a disadvantage by the faculty not
reading the paper.

It’s not amatter of the 25 cents; it's the principle of trying
to create a strict business relationship in our relaxed W&L
environment. If the editors are so interested in mnning a
“real-world” newspaper, as they have said, then why don’t
they print some articles that are worthy of a “real-world”
newspaper? I dare say that the Wall Street Journal would
have printed “Erection Man!” Finally, the system worked
fine for 95 years, and why should the 92-93 editors impose
their silly idea of rtmning the Phi likea“real-world”newspa-
per and change the system to the detriment of faculty and

students alike?

 Moseley,-F393      -~
V-Senior EC rep.

Amnesty International educates W&L

To the Editor:

“No one shall be subjected to tor-
ture or cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatment or punishment,” states Ar-
ticle 5 of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights.

1 don’t think there is a single person
at Washington and Lee who could pos-
sibly disagree with this statement and
yet there seems to be some very anti-
Amnesty International sentiment on
campus lately. This seems to be due
primarily to misconceptions about the
nature of Amnesty International, which
is not a liberal, radical, or politically
partisan group.

Amnesty International is about edu-
cation. Students attending such a pres-
tigious school as Washington and Lee
are no doubt intelligent, but they are
also sheltered in many ways. Most
don’t even realize there are human
rights abuses taking place every day
around the world because their own
environment is so safe and serene. For

many of the students who do realize,
the victims of torture hardly seem real.

Amnesty hopes to promote a more
global vision and provide infomiation
for students so thatthese victims can be
seen as real people, not just lamentable
statistics. Amnesty also serves as a
means for students to act on their be-
liefs. We’re very lucky to be able to
attend school and express our opinions
and beliefs without fear of the conse-
quences. In many countries, men,
women and children are imprisoned
solely for their beliefs, race or ethnic
origin. If these individuals have nei-
ther used nor advocated violence they
are considered prisoners of conscious
and the worldwide network that is
Amnesty International works impar-
tially to free them.

The recent EC explanation for the
ACLU decision states that funding for
the W&L chapter of Amnesty may be
rethought in the future. Thought is ex-
actly what Amnesty is trying to pro-

‘Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

Who is the sexiest professor and why?

1

Nicole Casteel, ’93, Valrico, Fla. —
—“Dr. Knox because he wears Birks.”

TALKBACK

mote, but realistically we need funding
to reach out to the student body. Our
EC funding pays for movies, speakers
and posters, not postage stamps as the
Spectator’s gossip column “Heard &
Overheard” might lead you to believe.

It’s true we send a lot of letters to
governments around the world request-
ing the release of prisoners of con-
scious, but the postage is paid for by
dedicated students and through outside
donations.

I hope when EC budget hearings
start next fall, members will keep in
mind what Amnesty International is
really about, not the misconceptions.

Amnesty Interrtational at Washing-
ton and Lee works — the prisoners of
conscious who are now free can attest
to that.

Sincerely,

Amy Yarcich ’94

President, W&L Amnesty Interna-
tional

Kelly Bass, ’93, Lutherville, Md.
—“Dr. Pleva because he's the sharp-
est dresser.”

Dennis Gambow, ’93, Cincinnati, Ohio and John Suttle, ’93, Abilene,
Texas — “Dean Schroer-Lamont because she’s too sexy for her job.”

Help Wanted

Do you have some free time?
Would you like to earn some extra
money? I am looking for two stu-
dents who would like to be projec-
tionists for the Troubadour Cinema
winter and spring terms. Experi-
ence not required but helpful. Be
prepared to set aside a few hours for
training. Contact Carol Calkins,
Room 104 of the University Cen-
ter, ext. 8590, for details.

Women's Forum

In light of Wednesday's Forum
on Sexual Harassment, Women’s
Forum will sponsor a video and
discussion onsexualharassrnentthis
Sundayat6:30p.m. intl1eWomen’s
Center.

Lecture

Pam Fesler, Senior Reporter for
Congressional Quarterly, will give
a talk “The Results of the 1992
Elections: An Early Appraisal” at4
p.m. on Monday, Nov. 16 in Room
327 of the Commerce School.

Amnesty

Amnesty International will
present “The Mission" at 8 p.m.
Sanirday, Nov. 14 and Sunday, Nov.
15 at the Troubadour Cinema.
Admission is free and everyone is
welcome to attend.

Fencing

Club Fencing will be starting
again winter tenn. Interested per-
sons (male or female).,should call
either Coach Lyles at.463-8683, or

tails.

The EC

The Executive Committee has
changed its meeting time from 7
p.m., Monday night to 7:30 p.m.
Monday night.

Lost and Found

Ifyou’ve lost car keys, come by
the Security Office or call Baner.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

Chris ‘Keller at 463-4884, for de.- 0

Phi Eta Sigma

Members of Phi Eta Sigma may
contact Dean Sessions, Washing-
ton Hall 24, about scholarship op-
portunities. Awards of $2000 are
available to seniors going on to
graduate school and $1000 to eli-
gible undergraduates.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, please don’t
drive. Please call Live Drive at
463-8947 for a safe, sober ride.
Live Drive operates Friday and
Saturday nights from 10 p.m.-2
a.m. We’re also looking for volun-
teers to help drive. If interested
call Melissa or Jess at 464-4017.

ACLU/Amnesty

The ACLU and Amnesty Inter-
national present A Critical Exami-
nation of the Death Penalty... com-
ing to a library display case near
you.

Study Abroad

Richard Bidlack, assistant pro-
fessor of History and acting head
of the Department of Russian Stud-
ies, will lead a study program to
Russiaduring the 1993 spring term.
Theprograrn will begin withaweek
of intensive orientation before de-
parting for Russia. Students will
travel to several cities in European
Russia.

Students enrolled in the course
will receive six credits in history or
they may split the credit between
history and another department
willing to grant credit.

Successful completion of either
History of Imperial Russia (H320)
or History of Soviet Russia (I-I321)
is a prerequisite for the program.

Knowledge of the Russian lan-
guage is not necessary. 8

Students interested in the pro-
gram should contact Prof. Bidlack
before Thanksgiving break.

Help!

I need a ride to northern New
Jersey on Saturday, November 21.
I will help pay expenses. Please
call Debbie at 463-5184.

Yearbook Photos

Class photos will be taken next
week. Freshmen, Tuesday Nov. 17:
Sophomores, Wednesday, Nov. 18;
Juniors, Thursday, Nov. 19.

Maureen Levey, ’93, Livingston,
NJ. “Professor de Maria because
who could ask for anything more than
a hot-blooded Italian man.”

Robert Stewart, ’95, Lithonia, Ga.
—— “Professora Ruiz because she al-
ways wore cute, little mini skirts."

 

 
 

Music Review

FEATURES

The Ring-tum Phl, November 1 2, 1992

Maniacs, Mondays blossom

By REBECCA CROW
Phi Music Columnist

GIN BLOSSOMS
NEW MISERABLE EXPERIENCE

(A&M)

 

From the barren desert of Tempe, Arizona, the
Gin Blossoms emerge as anew band that clings to the
folksy rock tradition of the Byrds.

Their debut LP, New Miserable Experience,
lends itself easily to the pop side of the alternative
spectrum.

Featuring recurrent themes of lost love, early love
and drunkenness, the lyrics are very teeny-boppish
and, unfortunately almost kill the strength of the
music as a whole.

The first three songs allude to alcohol use from the
perspective of a teenager.

(Were they writing for the younger audience, or
what?)
-In particular, “Hey Jealousy,” their first single,
develops from this point of view.

Vocalist Robin Wilson, while promising to re-
main faithful to his love, croons, “Do you think it
would be all right if I could just crash here tonight?
You can see I'm in no shape for driving.”

If you think those lyrics are great, guess what?
They continue for 10 more songs.

Most sparks of
true talent ﬂy at the
beginning of the LP.

At the end, all the
melodies blend into
the monotonous
murmur that gener-
ally occurs on al-
bums that lack diver-
sity.

A refreshing
break occurs with
“Cajun Song,”
which features a distinctively Cajun sound, and
“Cheatin’,” which incorporates a dash of country.

Nonetheless, lyrics about love and drinking still
prevail.

I guess some themes apply to all genres.

Fortimately, the jangling guitars and powerful
rhytlnns of the songs prove that the Gin Blossoms
have the talent to progress into the innermost circles
of rock.

This is an excellent effort for a debut album that
lends itself to much future development and growth.

The Blossoms are definitely a band to watch.

 

THE

***k********‘Ir**************************************k

 

10,000 MANIACS
OUR TIME IN EDEN

( Elcktra )

 

On Labor Day 1981, six young musicians per-
formed together for the first time in a small club
under the name 10,000 Maniacs.

Now, ten years later, they are one of the biggest
sensations in alternative rock. The combination of
lead singer Natalie Merchant’s eerie alto and their
diverse musical roots (calypso, folk, reggae, rock)
have charmed a generation of music lovers.
Merchant’s impassioned vocals crooned the woes of
social and political injustices, touching the hearts of
many into affecting change. “

Three years have
passed, however,
since Blind Man’s
Zoo, and the Mani-
acs have a new pro-
ducer, Paul Fox
(Robyn Hitchcock,
XTC). Gone are the
oommentative lyrics
that empowered and
carried the songs.
On Our Time In
Eden the depth
comes from very
subtle allegorical references to the Catholic assump-
tion that we are fallen beings who can not recreate
paradises here on earth. The first single, “These Are
Days,” commands people to find their inner strength,
their inherent ability to adjure the world and mold it

into what it should be. _ _
Ironically, ratherthan describing paradise, “Eden”

depicts a garden in which we are all roses who suffer
from a lack of spiritual refreshment. Merchant
queries, “Is there still time? If we wake and discover
in life a precious love, will that waking become more
heavenly?” Perhaps Merchant sees our world with
the same eyes as T.S. Eliot saw his in “The Waste-
land.”

For those who feel the Maniacs have not devel-
oped in the last decade, Our Time In Eden offers
“I’m Not The Man,” a death row monologue recited
on the behalf of a black male accused of a crime he
did not commit. “Call out the KKK,” he cries.
“They're wild after me.”

Merchant’s unearthly chanting set to a pounding
rhythm sounds far closer to the synthesized notes of
Suzanne Vega than the folksy Maniacs.

Once again, the 10,000 Maniacs have produced a
work that causes our hearts to drone with ache and
leap with joy simultaneously. Paradise may be lost

***&********§*****§***********

STUDENT

  ACTIVITIES
BOARD

PRESENTS

 

Tom Del u ca

Saturday, November 14,
7:30 p.m.
in the

Lenfest Center
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

forever, but in our minds and hearts, our time in Eden
is as real as our days on Earth.

HAPPY MONDAYS

YES, PLEASE
(Elektra)

 

Those of you who thought that the Happy Mon-
days had finally met their end should be overjoyed
about their new release, Yes, Please. Their diverse
sound brought a rough edge to popular music that
still remains today. Unfortunately, arrests for drug
possession and their gangster image quickly tore the
Mondays from the music scene.

Late in 1991, however, the Mondays hired a new
booking agent, Ian Flooks, who pushed them to
record again, this time with the production team of
Tina Weymouth and Chris Frantz (Talking Heads
and Tom Tom Club).

Like the Happy Monday’s previous efforts, Yes,
Please is totally relaxed and carefree, yet put to-
gether in a manner intended to produce excitement.
Fans of Pills ‘N’ Thrills may be disappointed by the
lack of heroin-induced lyrics, but please don’t be
dismayed. The style is as cocky as ever, only with
rhythms and lyrics that are tart, sharp and sparkling.

“Monkey In The Family” adds a touch of fun to
the collection by following the ambiguity of a They
Might Be Giants song. “Sunshine And Love,” whose
title almost appears to have been stolen from the Tom
Tom Club’ s single “Sunshine and Ecstacy” (released
in the spring), “Love Child” (no, they are not closet
Diana Ross fans) and “Total Ringo” are classic
Happy Mondays riffs. The rhythm forces you to get
up and dance.
Ryder’s recovery
from drug abuse and
his growing confi-
dence is emphasized
in “Angel,” which
concerns the firsten-
counter one has with
a doctor or perhaps a
therapist.

Overall, this al-
bum is exemplary.
Onlyif the New Kids
On The Block were to suddenly mature, learn to
write real lyrics and learn to play instruments can I
imagine any band putting forth more quality effort on
a come-back album.

Crow is assistant rock manager at WLUR. Her
column will appear periodically throughout the year.
These three albums are promotional copies received
by the station.

 

Colonnade Crossword

1 2

ACROSS
1 Mentally
competent
5 List of names
10 TV feature
14 Prudish
15 Opera voice
16 October gem
17 Teen-age
affliction
18 Tracking device
19 Skirt style
20 Hone
22 Comforted
24 —— mode
25 Valuable violin,
for short
26 Government
representative
30 Nutmeg and
cloves
34 Highway
35 Adam's mate
36 Tally
37 Possess
38 Make ready

41 Negative prefix ©‘A9,?%i";;§’s“’F‘,°es”’£‘,f\‘f‘;jj 5°""°°5v '"°- 1 1/12/92
42 Lowest point 9
44 Before: pref.
45 Military dining Last Week's Answers
room 9 Mistakes
46 Inspire with love 10 Wandering
48 Staff member around
50 Covered with 11 Long story
climbing plants 12 Abate
52 Pitcher handle 13 Tried to steal a
53 Vie base
56 Sharp weapon 21 Arafat's group
60 Opera solo 23 Backslide
61 Flower leaf 25 Paced
63 Popular drink 26 Buzz
64 Season 27 Des Moines
65 Author Zola citizen
66 Price tag 28 Zoo favorite
67 Leg joint 29 Rosary prayer
68 Satisfied 31 — Island, NY
69 Single bills 32 Having a jagged
. e e
DOWN 33 Feel
1 Resorts 38 Show to be
2 Span true
3 Columbus‘ ship 39 Provide guns
4 Green gem 40 voided a law 51 Tissue swelling 56 Bundle of hay
5 Banner 43 Copy 53 Keg 57 Midday
6 Tilt 45 African country 54 Algerian port 58 Otherwise
7 Also 47 Washes 55 Long African 59 Makes lace
8 Breakfast item 49 Place river 62 Deep hole

 
 

R—MWC concert tonight

Toad the Wet Sprocket will play at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
tonight at 9 p.m.

Toad the Wet Sprocket has two current hits, “All I Want” and “Walk on
the Ocean."

According to Tara Ward, Programming Director at Randolph—Macon, the
concert will take place in Randolph-Macon’s Smith Auditorium. Doors open
at 8 :30 p.m. Ward said 650 of the 900 concert tickets have been sold. Of these
tickets, 60 were sold at W&L. The remaining 250 tickets will be sold tonight
from 7-9 p.m. in the Student Center at Randolph-Macon. The tickets will cost
$10. College identification will be required to purchase tickets.

The opening band for tonight’s concert will be the Gin Blossoms. They
hit the stage at9 p.m. Toad the Wet Sprocket will begin their set at 10:15 pm.

— Tom Hespos

I

, SPRINGBREAKERS.
Promote our Florida Spring
Break packages. Eairi MONEY
and FREE trips. Organize

KFall Fashions For “The Student Body.”\
50°/o-80°/o Off *
‘Every Day

 

SMALL or LARGE groups
Student Housing Available 9
for ‘93-‘94. 1 to 5 Bedroom 0 U T I‘ E T 5
Houses right outside city limits. - -
Average Rent $200. 30 South Main Street Downtown Lexlngtor_i,_
Ask for Mitchell or Mark Schaier K M0"--Sat 9=3°'5=3° 453'973° J
M-F 463-2823 7:30-5:00 
a
valley ,§a¢"'V d'Q,,,"“”’ ——Y°U
"  could own _
'n n Related Items -
Hardware, Pal ta d Thls Space.
Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. Cal] 463-858 I,
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186
0

*4-¥¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

Your Favorite MB
Cards, Comics, Race Cars, & now Trading
Card supplies are available.

Listen to 96.7 WREL for a chance to win
our CD of the week:
Gloria Estefan’s Greatest Hits.

\.l .-//.» ' -

vies, Music, Trading

Also Special Order music at no extra charge.
Come see our Comic Book Dept. 6000 in
stock- DC, Marvel, Eclipse, & Many Morel!
99¢ Category of the Month:
Classics & Mystery

-9

 

’ The Ring-tum Phi, November 12, 1992

 Harrlsfeerer

 

NEWS

   

MEANS LOW PRICES

   

  
 
 

W&L ’51,
arrested

N.Y. judge,

PAGE 5

From Staff Reports

:-Harris Teeter GoldeII‘DeIigbt Turkey Coupon

Buy One Whole Or Two Halves, Hamilton
Honey Glazed Spiral Sliced Ham At Our

Special Low Price Of $2.99

Per Pound And Get One

    
  
 
   
   
 
  

   

    

Y
E| 

2223
C

H TTtisCoupo’r1cMa[«"f':liol COUPON I 
 I   G I I
l. Mlnllnuin LT‘

Purchase 0“-rt 0°°d COUPON CANNOT BE USED ON ANY OTHER MEAT

N°V*-""'>=' "L '*"° PURCHASE. OFFER GOOD wEDNEsDAY NOVEMBER
I '‘‘°'‘’"‘I’°’ 75"” 11 THRU wEDNEsDAY NOVEMBEH 25, 1992 I
j 1 1 1 2 1 2
QMITHFIELD WHOLE OR HALF

SPIRAL SL IED

IMIT '1 WITH
20.00

 
  

 
 

DDITIONAL
PURCHASE

LB.

I.
‘I

  

i I.'i.“.::.“.;'.i:..W.".“,:‘..‘.‘é’.;.".°..¢.li2i": ,::r°*l°"e'°°°d.. FLU 2232" I

VALUE
I 1-OL

  4 IT ALLowS You To
  _cASH PERSONAL E

I
I
» I
I.

'?

VALUABLE $1.00 CUPON
NORTH CAROLINA

BROCCOLI
B CH _

DIET COKE OR
8 COCA-COLA

   

REDUCED
PRICE

  

7.‘ - . ..-_ h

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per

 

  o_.

STUDENTS
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY I2 COUNT CARTON
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER I EGG.LAND '5 BEST I
COURTESY CARD- : LARGE wI-IITE EGGS :
Hams 1' eater I I
"OURNAME ‘ ‘ I This Coupon May Not I
vounmnnass m..,........l. limit
YOUR CITY. STATE lllll I M23; gggpgggifgjim g, 
_ X/X 01/01/01 Minim‘l’m pun use I
' “III” §“I.:i:."i::'.‘§‘l3e"2. I

   

COUPON I

Vt_t2= ﬂarttsteeter

______..____J

ALUABLE 40¢ COUPON
16 OZ. PACKAGE

CHECKS AT OVER 134

HARR5 TEETER : HT BUTTER GUARTERS:
LocATIoNS IN . ¢ I
GEORGIA, SOUTH : 9 :
Etigtlﬁt: $‘.‘.’.t‘.l.*l..  AAAA ;
AND TENNESSEE ,,;§;§,°~».r;§?5,;:§,l /7 ;;~;,2,=a° .
TAKE ADVANTAGE or THIS $1.00 I °9t’l1?." I

_

COUPONANDSAVE. ____________]

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON VALUABLE $1.01 COUPON
l 1 OZ. BAG

   
 

  

" s I .00 0" I I “E5” ""55 I
’ ‘ CHOC MORS I.
C

ANY $3.00 OR MORE I I ¢ |
PURCHASEIN. OUR I I I
PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I I This COW‘ émw j I
, I THIS coupon MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED.I I ;‘j°c§‘,°."’cP...i’.§/..n.‘I>‘«§,I‘."' ~,e‘-i=~‘*~“'*-’-'4‘.w’. WITH I
LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I ‘I ,,,,=,g‘;',,,Y,;,,,°,l ;'{,,,,'"l j__ .  , ._.3 _ COUPON I

OFFER GOOD NOV. II THRU Nov. I7, I992 §K}2‘;20.berL‘eIiC15’‘r:|o|? . _ ‘W  .,,w 2226
I ON ' PRODUCE I In-ovem'l1erI7, 1992. 'f="="-‘~—"‘='* "“GROCERY I
- I “tr...     . I I c°ir.r.~ I
_‘'E'; _ _'*‘i".1.°9_l L 2;. _ '° _ _ _ _.

Prices Effective Through November 17, 1992

Prices In This Ad Eltective Wednesdo November I I Throug Tuesday, November 17 1992. In Lexington Stores _
U On|y.We Reserve The Right To limit Quontilies. None Sold To Dealers. We Glodly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

S01 Wachtler, a distinguished W&L alum-
nus in the class of ’5 1, stepped down Tuesday
as New York state's top judge, three days after
being accused of harassing and attempting to

extort $20,000 from a former lover.

FBI agents arrested Wachtler, 62, Saturday.
The FBI alleges that Wachtler began contacting
with sexually explicit letters and phone calls a
New York City woman, with whom they say he

had had a relationship.

The FBI alleges that the harassment of the
woman escalated to threatening to kidnap her

daughter and blackrnailing her.

The woman, Joy A. Silvennan,_is a Repub-
lican socialite and one-time Bush nominee to be
ambassador to Barbados. She is related to

Wachtler by marriage.

The FBI arrested Wachtler Saturday after
agents witnessed him pick up an envelope sup-
posed to contain the money they allege he
extorted from Silverrnan, The New York Times

reported.

Wachtler received a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Washington and Lee in 1951 and a Bach-

elor of Laws degree in 1952.

In recent years Wachtler has been men-
tioned in political circles as a contender for
New York governor and U.S. Supreme Court

justice.

Give a hoot

Photo by Amy French, The Ring-tum Phi

 

Freshman Matthew Reedy helps Phi -Delta Theta frater-
nity clean up its portion otU.S.11, between East Lex and
Kroger. The Phi Delts pick up litter as part of the state
Adopt-A-Highway program.

"V’\-‘p-I

Guide makes sense of Moot Court

C] From GUIDE, page 1

not “foster an excessive governmental

entanglement with religion.”
Appearance of end0rsement.This

is the crux of the 1992 Davis problem.

‘ The Supreme Court has recently inter-

preted the Lemon test as prohibitive of
religious displays that even appear to
endorse a particular faith. If the
menorah’s presence on city property
gives the mere appearance that the city
is endorsing the Jewish faith, it cannot
be allowed.

Time, place, and manner restric-
tions. These have been upheld as a
valid means of regulating displays,
demonstrations, etc. without violating
participants’ freedom of speech —— the
means by which expression is con-
ducted may be restricted, but not the
basis of the content of that expression.
Many cases relating to the Davis prob-
lem involve‘ titriegiplace laid vmarmer

restrictions, either as a contributing
factor leading to the litigation or as a
proposed solution.

Lynch v. Donnelly and Allegheny
County v. ACLU of Greater Pitts-
burgh.'I'hese cases stand for the propo-
sition that a municipality may permit a
display if the religious content is out-
weighed by neutral, secular content.
Sometimes lawyers jokingly call this
the “three—reindeer rule” — if a holiday
display contains an otherwise imper-
missible religious symbol, three rein-
deer are sufficiently secular to detract
from the religious content. (This is
about as witty as constitutional law
scholars get.)

The more permissive “coercion”
standard. Intended as a replacement
for the Lemon test and argued by Jus-
tice Kennedy in his dissent in Allegh-
eny County, this test would allow gov-
emmental support /of religion unless

ticipating in the religion. The City of
Danburg may try to argue this, even
though the Supreme Court rejected it
this summer in Lee v. Weisman, a Rhode
Island graduation-prayer case.
Compelling state interest. For
speech to be abridged, the state must
argue that considerations of public
policy compel that abridgement. The
Holy Fundamentalist Church argues
that violation of the Establishment
Clause is a compelling state interest.
This small amount of knowledge is
relatively inconsequential in the Davis
scheme of things, but at least now you
can go to the ﬁnals with an idea of

I usubwhuu

BE B\\n\’h ‘X I

*1

" '!Il§I1 

what’s going on. And who knows? The :;

podium just might collapse when some-
body is giving their argument, and
you’ll be there to see the action. Enjoy
yourself — but when the first finalist is
six minutes into her argument and the
judges haven’t let her finish a_ sen-

ttfahsupport coerced-«a person into par— 1:’ tence,4ti0rr-’t say I didn’t  you.

F

3)

University Cleaners

Professional Dry Cleaners & Laundry

Same Day Service, Dry Cleaners & Laundry, Shirt Service, Personal Laundry Service,
1 Hour Dry Cleaning. Hours: Monday - Friday 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Saturday 9 a.m. - 1» p.m.

7 N. Jefferson Street Lexington, VA 463-3622

W

k Not available as registration point J
GET INVOLVED!
  E P The Ring-tum Phi is

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE seeking outgoing stu-
dents for advertising
sales. It’s good for the

resume, especially for C-

' School majors! Leave a

a S I message for Benjy at 463-

delivered hot and last to your door.

© 1989 Pizza Hut. Inc.

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE or EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS ORDISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY
WITH COLLEGE ID

: Call: 463-7000

5:: Offer expires 12-18-92

0 1989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

and Keep
Cramming.

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings.

Pizza Hut Delivery . . . Great taste delivered!

——————————————--——————-1

|"
Student Special '

I
I
I
E 2 pizzas for the price of 1
I
I
I

our drivers carry no more than $20.

 

I-Iluts

Umitad delvery am.

1/20 cent cash rederrptlon valUeJ

8581, or leave a note with
Mrs. Calkins in the U.Ctr.

The Ring-tum Phi is also
seeking a reader-rela-
tions coordinator. Great
experience in public
relations. Call Cathy or
Rick at 463-8581, or leave
us a note with Carol
Calkins in the U. Center.

SPRING BREAK ‘93
SELL TRIPS,
EARN CASH

& GO FREE!!!
Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus
representatives. Ski
packages also available
CALL 1-800-648-4849.

 

 

 

Last Week:

Football- W&L 21,Guilford 0 (5-3)

WP- W&L 11, Johns Hopkins 9 (16-10)
VB- EMC 3,W&L 1 (13-14)

CC- (W) 1st at ODAC,(M) 2nd at ODAC

PAGE 6

S

@1111: Zﬂing-tum lﬂlli

PORTS

This Week:
Football- vs. G’town 11/14 1:30
CC- (M&W) D III Regionals 11/ 14

Swim- (M&W) vs. Centre 11/14 lpm

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

NOVEMBER 12, 1992

Record
setter
falters

Women still finish
first in ODAC

By SEAN O’RoURKE
Phi Sports Editor

The teams competing at the
Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Championships finally
found a way to beat Washing-
ton and Lee’s Josephine
Schaeffer. Get her lost.

Schaeffer was leading the
women’s race by a corrifort-
able margin when she made a
wrong turn.

The mistake cost her ﬁrst
place and the title. But her bad

Photo by ems.” Leonardi, hie Ring-furn Ph

Senior Bo Hannah is in the clear as he competes in

luck was the Generals’ Nicole the ODAC finals. Hannah finished second overall

Casteel’s good fortune. The and helped pace the Generals to a second-place

senior took the lead and held it finish. He ran a time of 26:30. _

through the tape, ﬁnishing first

with a time of 19:51. Head coach Jim Phemister ﬁfth with a time of 27:45.
Freshman Amy Mears and was named ODAC Coach of Both teams must now pre-

sophomore Kim Herring ﬁn» the Year for the third time in pare for the South/Southwest

ish_ed ﬁfth and sixth, respec-
tively. Schaeffer rebounded

three years.
The men took second, be-

Regional Meet, which could
determine who goes to nation-

strong to finish ninth. hind Lynchburg, led by their als. A win by the team sends
The loss ended Schaeffer’s senior anchor, Bo Hannah. the whole team to the national
winning streak, but will not Hannah ﬁnished second over- meet.

affect her chances to make na-

all with a time of 26:30. Fellow

The event will take place

Generals ri Qakers °

By SEAN O’RoUiu<E
Phi Sports Editor

You already know by the headline who won
the football game between the Generals and
Guilford on Saturday.

Even so, there is one statistic that speaks just
as many volumes as the score does.

Rushing yards: Tommy Mason of W&L, 37
carries for 184 yards; the Guilford team, 39
rushes for -3 yards. Nothing more needs to be
said.

The Generals were an angry bunch of foot-
ball players after their loss to Bridgewater the
previous week, and it showed in the way they
beat up on the Quakers.

Defense paced the 21-0 victory by allowing
only 106 yards in total offense, while recording
four turnovers.

The performance impressed both head coach
Gary Fallon and Guilford’s coach, Mike
Ketchum.

“They [defense] really played well,” Fallon
said. “The other coach told me how he thought
our big people on both sides of the ball took
control of the game.”

The offensive line played extremely well,
opening all the holes Mason charged through

» on his way to the 184—yard performance.

“I didn’t expect to run the ball that much,”
Mason said. “But the offensive line blocked
really well and it was working.”

The Generals got on the board late in the ﬁrst
quarter. W&L recovered a fumble at the Guilford
29 and from there Mason went to work.

He gained all 29 yards on ﬁve carries and
scored on a three-yard jaunt over the right side.
It proved to be the game-winning touchdown

35:?

  

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Fling-tum Phi

Kevin Gorman (60) and Phil Spears gang-tackle the running back. The Genera s 1
defense will be under the gun all afternoon as the Hoyas bring their high octa e
run-and-shoot offense to Wilson Field this Saturday.

and Mason’s ﬁrst of the season.

The Generals tacked on two more scores in
the third, the ﬁrst on a one-yard run by quarter-
back Geren Steiner.

The other came on a 35-yard interception
return for a touchdown by freshman corner
back Graig Fantuzzi. It was Fantuzzi’s second
touchdown of the year.

The win assured the Generals their ﬁrst
winning season since 1988, when they went 5-

3-1.

A win over the Georgetown Hoyas this
weekend would give W&L their best victory
total since the 1985 team that went 7-2 and won
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference title?

Mason says that prospect forces the team to

concentrate even more. 9

“We have to stay focused. Everyone’s con-
gratulating us on a_ winning season, but we still
have one more win within our grasp.”

  

 

tionals.

classmate Keith Rinn ﬁnished

on Saturday, Nov. 14.

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

Eastern Mennonite College
ended the Washington and Lee
volleyball team’s hopes of ﬁnish-
ing with a winning record for the
second time in the team’s history
last weekend at the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament.

The sixth-seeded Generals were
unable to keep up with tliird-ranked
EMC, and fell in four games, 15-
g. . . 12, 5-15,15-..8.._1,5,-11. .. , . ..

Head coach Kristi Yarter said the . team’s overall
inexperience was a major drawback. '

“We ran into a better team in EMC, but our inexperi-
ence still hurt us. We had 15 service errors in the match,
and that's directly related to inexperience.

“When our young players get more accustomed to
playing under pressure, those errors will stop,” Yarter
said.

Yarter said the team played well in some spots, but
could not keep up with EMC’s consistent play.

“We played well, with desire and enthusiasm. We did
a lot of things well, but our passing broke down in the
third game, and EMC stayed consistent through the entire

 

Hess

Volleyball ends successful year

match. They never really gave us a chance to break
through,” Yarter said.

This was the final game for senior Leslie Hess, who
ended a brilliant career with ﬁve kills and 13 digs. It was
also the ﬁnal game of Yaner’s stay as interim head coach.
Her ﬁrst season on the bench produced a solid 13-14
record.

As a team, W&L came up with 57 digs for the match.
Sophomore Jennifer Garrigus led the team with 16,
followed by Hess’ 13.

Freshmen Catherine Hess, Chrissie Hart, and Cheryl
T aurassi continued to record team-highs in kills, blocks,
and assists as they had all season. Hess finished with 13.
kills, Hart with four solo blocks and ﬁve block assists,
and Taurassi with 36 assists.

Taurassi said despite the team’s good play, it still
wasn’t a substitute for winning.

“The more 1 look back on it, the more I realize that we
actually played well, but that really doesn't make it feel
anyibetter. With Leslie and Coach Yarter leaving, its
going to be hard next year. But we're pretty young, so
hopefully we can use what we learned this year to be even
better next year.”

This team is losing one of its strongest players, and
team leader, next year.

Still, it is only one player. So next year’s squad has a
lot to look forward to.

W&L captures Eastern title 

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee water polo
team concluded their 1992 campaign
on Sunday with an 11-9 win over
Johns Hopkins to clinch the top spot in
Division‘ III’s Eastern Division. With
the three-win weekend, the Generals
finished at 16-10 for the season.

The path to the ﬁnal confrontation
with Hopkins was surprisingly easy, as
W&L quickly dispatched Wesleyan in
the first round, 24-5. The beating ap-
proached comic proportions when both
W&L goalies, P.J. Waicus and Dave
Silvester, netted goals of their own.
Every W&L player except one man-
aged to pass the besieged Wesleyan
keepers.

Freshmen Pat McKenna and Frank
Braden led the W&L barrage with three
goals each. Six other Generals scored
twice.

W&L’s second round opponent,
Williams, posed slightly more of a
threat, but the Generals ended the game
on top by eight, 19-ll. Junior Greg

atop the scoring charts by compiling
seven goals in the game, a career high.
Sophomore Derek DeVries added three
of his own, while seniors Chris Hagge,
Andrew Pearson
and junior Jacob
Berrnan rounded
out the scoring
with two each.

Head coach
Page Remillard
said the ﬁrst two
A _ games werehit-or-
Walcus miss because the
team knew nothing about either of them.

“We didn’t know anything about
them, and we were just able to identify
early who their better players were.
The idea was to take their better play-
ers out of the game, and play defenses
they hadn’t seen before...and that’s
basically what we did.”

In Johns Hopkins, W&L was play-
ing a team who they had seen twice
before, splitting the previous two meet-
ings. In the latest game, a loss to
Hopkins in the EWPA at Navy,
Remillard felt that he and his team had

    

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
 

“We didn’t play well, and I didn’t
coach well. That game was kind of a _
microcosm of what our overall pr b-
lems were in the middle of the season.”

Remillard said the final came down ‘
to a test of swimming endurance.

“I think actually, we controlled the
game more than the two-goalmargin of
score indicated. We missed some wide 1
open opportunities,” Remillard sai .‘ \

In the second half, W&L repeat ly
stopped Hopkins’ counter attacks and
initiated ‘attacks of their own.

Golub keyed the win by starting a
ﬁve-goal third quarter, distancing W&L
from Hopkins after the score was tied
3-3 at halftime. He was a unanimous.
first—team all-tournarnent selectihn.
Waicus and Hagge earned second team ‘
honors. ,

Golub also finished as the team
leader in every offensive category: 73 '
goals, 38 assists, 165 shots and 46
steals. Berrnan finished second in goals
and steals with 46 and 41', respectivoly.
Hagge had 39 goals, third and 37 as-
sists, second. Waicus compiled a 47.0
percent save percentage, saving 227

 

 

 

 

Golub returned to his familiar place performed poorly. shots and allowing 256 goals.
CRAFTS  [N'C_ W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop fr . .
GAMES HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES your next ha/rout. We have exper/enced Barbers.  R 9 a d  e P h |
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5 Ideal Barber  '
31 S. Main st., Lexington 463-3355 22 S. Main St., Lexinton - Below FirstAmerican Bank
_ ADOPTION OPTION ssss, FREE '§§l£KII£é.&lél:R 900CHE[:;'vI;[';sV‘,kf:**¢>;‘g’:VAf1'l,*5*;S .
A ' Tim and Vicki wish to share our home with an infant. RESUME E _ f‘ SPRINGBREAK1993
I   , We have college degrees; and we both work in education £‘;1'nYt°‘$‘::1S”“§em§‘;‘,“1{mO‘G3a‘B“Za“REl§';‘<S The bestmtes &,hel,;gges,
Th N 2  b  Our holtf>bles arehrrtluslcI,kgo_ltfr,] and clhurch aciltlvltles. caumenaF$l"}S1eadeI.ImerCampus’ commissions. Formorelnformaﬁon, .‘
.. ' ou wls o a wl us, ease ca _ _
C CW SCI y Y 1_800_296_2367P Progiams1800-327-6013 Ca1l800-395 WAVE

  
 
 

 
 
   
 

'//////////////////////////

pagoQQo"

////7///////////////////////////////////////"“

ll:
\\\\

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE

Oil Change, Filter, & Lube

$15.95

   
  
 
    
 

$18.95 at
Night Owl Music

\\\\\‘.‘\\‘\

‘§\\

    
  
 

 
 

  
    

  

\ 

     
   
 
  

 

 

§ Includes up to 5 quarts motor oil, new oil ﬁlter, § _ , _ 
_' § lube, check fluid levels, belts and hoses, g Ladies Shoes, Clothing g
[I   I]: X}  I  '  E tires guaged, and exhaust system checked. E andAcce5-S0,-[es g
E N0 aPP°“‘tment necessary‘ § / 23 N. Main.St. (703) 463-5988 g
g - § Lexington, VA 24450 -
   E g M, T“°teS» EXh3“5t ,Vl:3)‘i1‘e‘ g%‘I‘I‘:°$26 §
§ lnor une-up avai . E
_E_ _ § Carmondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
iE>\<’l\l/\'lE—’~,Vi°‘oS§','\\'/(,iT§3l'2l'5St:T  Rudell’s Service Center  Janfpon day packs :md_book bags
703 464-300°. .  207 N. Main  Lexington Bike Shop
     E (C01'ner Of Main and M35519) § 130 s. Main St. Mon.- Fri. 9-5/sat. 9-12 Noon. . 463-7969
A 7 1 ii||ll][|"jI|ﬂ|_|1IIllllmllﬂjﬂlllillIIllllllllllIII[ﬂlIIII|I||IlII|II|IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIII|IIz'|I||I|I|||I|I||lI|!] lE I _ _
ﬂu _ Do You Want VISA 8t MasterCa rd Credit Cards? : STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLAllTAlION.FL 3331 :
Aupjo .IVtDEo  Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  Q i I
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and, MasterCard!” I . ‘want VISAQ/MASTERCARDQ. Cred“ I
2523:; i‘.-'_i:'|mE CI'EdllC(?;‘.:dDSi:i:'I()t1'-rmBnEl;:.'l;JEVEN lg-‘DY%wA§%|g I Cards. Enclosed find 8 5 which is 100% refundable if not I
‘ ‘Um’ ' I approved immediately. I Q
LEEHIBA 2;/:;gAM2 VlSA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you I |
., BOSTON DEFINITIVE dcsenrc and l'lCCd f0l""'  |  '
xupscn BAZOOKA STORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNMEN'l‘— , '
; :z:::E:.;“.t21::m$.W E”“ﬁ5r”§Zs?.‘ti’3¥§t'%’i‘3f’;$Ef§‘$e”’m““ns.' ‘S’ I ADDRE5 -
I f;,§§;g;;gLEL;}'1,g,~cg,g*;;§wE~T REPAIRS-—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! : CITY ‘ STATE _ ZIP I
. xi§:1EERl¥EAER%9gsiR¢glgéovER ‘ '  S’S.g : 9
0! _ .
(goo) 453.5657 '5 S“ cm: No credrr . 1 SIGNATURE 1
come, of Ogden 3, swkey Road, “5plI|:“_¢o ‘fcm "0 59C“''1t¥ (190051 t! ' N011-2: Maslucnrd Is a registered traaerrarlt d’ Mmtcroml lnternailomt lnc. '
Overlooking Tanglewood M.-.11 gut” 0.51 ‘ I Visa is a registered tndcnnrk or VISA USA. int-. and vlsA lntrrauonal I
2750 ogden,Rood- Roanoke 00 “ "5P’°"al 3b5°'Ut¢’Y gU31'am°€d 50 g Services Assocltllon. ‘coy OUARANYEED! '
' I o | o

 

