 
    
   

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

WASI-IINGTON‘x& LEE UNIVERSITY

I 9214450 /

WHAT A RusH!

W&L Students Offer Their Tips
for Having the Time of Your Life
During Fraternity Rush

Can the Generals
endpthe drought?
W&L Looks to End E&H's D

  

..l

Catch the Renaissance update inside 9

C112 ‘tiling-tum Iﬂlii

' OLUME 92, NO. 1

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

0

By JOSHUA MANNING
Phi Managing Editor

If you need to get to duPont Hall this term, don’t take the

Colonnade. The hole in the ground blocking the way will
Que there for a while.

The future Watson Gallery, which will ﬁll that hole, is
slated for completion in February.

University Coordinator of Capital Planning Frank Par-
sons said the project looks behind schedule, but the pro-
jected completion date has not been changed. A

Until then, Parsons said, people will just have to walk

around it.

‘ ‘Building the library shut down all the back campus for
several years,” Parsons said. “You can endure it. It's not
always pleasant, but you can’t build a building without
inconvenience.”

The Watson Gallery, an extension of the Reeves Center,
is will house a collection of antique Chinese furniture, jade

upieces and porcelain donated by Mrs. William Watson,
whose husband was a 1929 W&L graduate. The collection
is valued at over $6 million.

Besides shifting the campus traffic patterns, Parsons
said the greatest problems created by the construction site
will be the noise and dust cast on the nearby buildings, the

 

allery takes shape 

most affected area being the ﬁve classrooms on the fourth
ﬂoor of Tucker Hall.

While the most noisy and dusty phase of the project,
excavation, has now been completed, air conditioners
have been installed in the Tucker classrooms to combat the
problem while classes are in session.

Professor Laurent Boetsch, head of the Romance lan-
guages department, said faculty members working in
Tucker are happy with that solution.

Boetsch said a planning group anticipated the noise
problem last spring.

“We simply would not be able to teach with the
windows closed [due to the heat]," Boetsch said. “And
certainly we could not leave them open due to the noise and
dust."

The language departments brieﬂy considered cancel-
ing all classes on Tucker's fourth ﬂoor, possibly shifting
them into extra rooms in Parmly Hall and the Military
Science building. But Boetsch said. that solution was
rejected.

Construction of the gallery, which is being funded by a
separate donation from Watson, will not go- over its
$800,000 budget, University Treasurer Lawrence Broomall
said.

‘ ‘I’ve been told by the Board of Trustees that it won’t”
go over budget, Broomall said. “Therefore, it will not.”

City enters voting dispute
with letter to college students

on the left, workers
raise the frame on the
future Watson Gallery.

Photos by Leigh Allen, The Ring -um P I

The sidewalk from the Colonnade to duPont Hall
will remain blocked until February.

 
 

SEPTEMBER 10, 1992

Hughes
not
indicted

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

indict former W&L senior Richard Hughes on attempted
rape charges.

Hughes, who was a senior last year, had been charged
with attempting to rape Jodi Schaubach, a 20-year-old
Sweet Briar College student, on May 10 at the Phi
Gamma Delta house.

Hughes’ diploma was being withheld pending the
completion of the case, but Dean of Students David
Howison said ‘
Wednesday the
faculty will prob-
ably deal with the
matter at its next
regular meeting.

Howison said '
it is formal faculty policy to withhold the degree of any
student charged with a felony.

In Hughes’ preliminary hearing in Rockbridge County
General District Court June 30, visiting Judge James
Joines denied a motion by the defense to dismiss the
charges, but he told prosecutor Eric Sisler the case was
not a strong one, according to local newspaper accounts..

“I’d hate to be on the jury that convicts him with the
evidence that I’ve heard,” Joines said.

we essrclraubaelrtestifred in-lune thatshespent theevening
of May 10 at a party at the Fiji house trying to avoid
Hughes, whom she already knew. Shortly after midnight,
she said, Hughes, a member of Fiji, pulled her into a
room, forced her onto a bed, lay on top of her and started
to pull her clothes off in an attempt to have sex with her.

CI W&L, SBC students react
to decision. See page 6

El See HUGHES, page 6

A Rockbridge County grand jury Tuesday refused to

By RICHARD PELTZ
Phi Acting Executive Editor

t It looked like the bitter battle between students and the
_ city registrar over voter registration was ﬁnally over. Then,
last Thursday, Lexington City Council threw its hat into the
. ring.
After a circuit-court order in May upholding City Regis-
‘ trar Lucille Joyce's refusal to register second-year law
student Chris Kowalczuk to vote in Virginia, Kowalczuk
filed his intent to appeal to the Virginia Supreme Court.
!But that appeal died 55 days later when Kowalczuk failed
to ﬁle a required statement explaining his side of the case,
Rockbridge County Circuit Court Clerk Bruce Patterson
. said. So the courts endorsed Joyce's decision-making.
That case struck a blow to one of Mayor H.E. “Buddy”
' Derrick Jr.’s defenses of Lexington’s tax on student cars,
which applies even to students who do not vote in the city.
oWhen students complained about taxation without repre-
‘ sentation in the fall of 1991, Derrick said that students who
M did not like the tax could register to vote and oust him from
ofﬁce.

The City Council then adopted a policy to encourage
student voting, City Manager T. Jon Ellestad said. Now the
council is publishing its policy in the form of open letters in
The Ring-tum Phi and the Virginia Military Institute student
newspaper. .

Joyce worked with Ellestad to prepare the letter, but she

. later opposed City Council’s involvement in the issue.

“The City Council has nothing to do with registration,”

- Joyce said Tuesday.
_ The letter encourages students to carefully consider
vﬁiere they want to register. It also tells students what

questions to expect when registering.

“The registrar does have the authority to ask questions
beyond what the application requests,” the city’s letter says,
“as long as the registrar does not single out one class of
applicants such as students, young people, or a particular
racial group.”

The controversy about who may vote stems from, the
word “domicile," which is not clearly deﬁned in the Code of
Virginia.

The law puts two requirements on people seeking to vote
in Virginia. They
must have a “place
of abode” and be
domiciled where
they apply. . _

In determining
domicile, the law
says that “consid-
eration may be
given” to the
applicant's ﬁnan-
cial independence, income taxes, marital status, parents’
residences and registration of personal property, like a car.
But the decision is ultimately the local registrar’s.

In Kowalczuk’s case, Joyce said he had not paid state
taxes or registered his car in Virginia when he applied for
residency.

But Kowalczuk said in May that he is ﬁnancially inde-
pendent, has a Virginia driver’s license and last lived in his
former home, Ohio, in 1980.

Kowalczuk would not comment for this story.

Thecar tax is allowed under Virginia law if the car is kept
in Lexington the majority of the ﬁscal year. The tax is 4.25
percent of the value of the car.

D Lexington City Council
writes an open letter to stu-
dents on voting registration
procedures. See pae 2

Will tospeak at Convocation Friday

The Ring-tum Phi. He won a Pulitzer

 

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

George F. Will, syndicated colum-
nist and author, will speak at Washing-
ton and Lee's Opening Convocation
Friday at 11 a.m. in Lee Chapel.

Convocation is usually held on the
first day of undergraduate classes to
honor the senior class, but this year’s
service was delayed to accommodate
Will’s schedule.

Following Will’s speech, the fac-
ulty will hosta luncheon for the seniors
on the front lawn.

Will’s column appears in 470news-
papers across the country, including

Prize in 1977 for commentary.

In addition to being a television
news analyst for ABC News, Will oc-
casionally appears on “World News
Tonight” and “Nightline.” He is also
a regular guest on “This Week with
David Brinkley.”

Will is the author of Statecraft as
Soulcraft, The New Season: a
Spectator’: Guide to the 1988 Elec-
lion. and Men at Work: The Craft of
Baseball.

A 1962 Trinity College graduate,
Will received his master's and doctor-
ate degrees in politics from Princeton.
From 1973 to 1976, Will was editor of
The National Review .

on

    

File photo

A fraternity member calls out the names of freshmen before Open Houses during a past Hush.

Hush: ‘Not just girls and beer’

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Ninety percent of freshman men are I

expected to participate when fall Rush
begins with an IFC-sponsored band in
the freshman quad Friday afternoon.

Interfratemity Council President
Sam Rock said he expects a successful
rush because of the large number of
men in the freshman class.

‘ ‘It could work out to be almost 16
guys per house,” Rock said. “That's
more than in the last few years.”

Rock said the Rush schedule will be
similar to last year's. However, Tear
Night will differ from those in past
years, Rock said, so as to decrease the
number of injuries caused by excessive
drinking.

Rock saidTear Night will begin at 5
p.m. on the last Friday of Rush with an
alcohol-free party where bids will be
accepted, followed by a band party
from 8 p.m. until midnight.

IFC Vice President Tom Washmon
warned fraternity members and rush-
ees against violating the IFC contact
rules.

IFC rules prohibit contact between
freshmen and fraternity members ex-
cept during fonnal Rush functions and
“open contact” periods.

Fraternities can be lined up to $500
and a freshman could lose his rush
privileges for a first-offense violation,
Rock said.

Rock said freshmen should keep an
open mind about the houses and meet
as many people as possible.

“The best fraternity for you might
not be the one that throws the best
parties,” Rock said. “It’s not just
about girls and beer."

‘ ’  Says who? The Princeton
Review's Student Access Guide to
Best Colleges, » which came out
Tuesday.

, In addition to the usual college
guidebook information, the book
includes students’ ratings of col-
leges on everything from the worst
dormitory rooms to the most bor-
ing classes. ‘

Washington and Lee appeared
ontwo lists, rating the tenth best-
looking student body and the 13th
happiest students, but didn't rank
in the best academics.

The ratings were based on 70-
question surveys sent to 245 cam-
puses. One hundred students from

each college responded.

  W&L: Shiny, happy people

Best-looking campus

Denison University
University of Richmond
Miami University

Texas Christian University
Southern Methodist Univ‘.
Vanderbilt University
Howard University

St. Lawrence University
Bucknell University
Washington and Lee
Villanova University
Middlebury College
Clemson University
Brigham Young University
Univ. of Colorado — Boulder

ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁﬁ

Happiest campus

Duke University

Sweet Briar College
Univ. of the South

Colby College
Hampden-Sydney College
Northwestern University
College of the Atlantic
Dartmouth College
Brown University
Stanford University
University of Dayton
Rhodes College
Washington and Lee
Cal Tech University
Deep Springs College

ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁﬂ

 

PAGE 2

    

@1112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

G Jidelir es we
all can live with?

By now you have seen the front—page story on the grand jury's
refusal to indict Richard Hughes on charges of attempting to rape
Sweet Briar sophomore Jodi Schaubach. This case, along with
other sexual misconduct cases, has prompted us to re-evaluate
our guidelines regarding the names of complainants and defen-
dants in such difficult situations.

In the past year, the W&L community has demonstrated that
it is overwhelmingly against the disclosure of the accuser’s
name in most sexual misconduct cases. Nevertheless, we favor
naming accuser and accused; doing so helps to de—stigmatize
rape victims and keeps the community informed. And in the
interest of fairness, we carmot continue to name the accused —
regardless of his guilt or innocence — while protecting the
accuser in every case.

If we were to do what we believe is right, we would likely lose
our jobs. While we would not mind losing our jobs in defense of
a principle, we must choose our battles carefully. Continuing to
strengthen The Ring-tum Phi is worth a concession on this issue.
Therefore we have developed a new set of guidelines, effective
immediately, for sexual misconduct cases.

For sake of illustration, consider the conventional case of a
woman charging a man with rape. When the charge is filed, the
Phi will report the accusation, but without naming either person.
Naming neither is preferable to having readers assume that the
man is guilty, while allowing the woman to act as an anonymous
accuser.

In the case of an acquittal or dismissal of charges, the Phi
again will not name either person. The man will not have been
proved guilty, and thus his reputation should not be injured. As
long as both the man and the woman are innocent of any
wrongdoing, they should receive the same treatment. And since
community standards prohibit narriing the woman, we will not
name the innocent man.

In the case of conviction, the Phi will name the man but not the
woman. We have no interest in protecting the reputations of
convicted felons, so our duty to cover the courts outweighs their
privacy interests. And once again, community standards prohibit
naining’'the‘woman:'“' *   “ ’ " ’

These are the guidelines we will use — guidelines, not rules.
The guidelines apply to every case, but sometimes there are
other overriding interests.

In this case, telling you who plastered our campus with
posters maligning the Fijis is such an interest. For weeks during
last spring, a fraternity fought minors launched by an attacker
they could not combat effectively. Without knowing the source
of the ﬂiers, students could not evaluate the accusations’ truth-
fulness.

It is for that reason — and not merely because Schaubach
brought an attempted rape charge - that we name her. The
expectations of our readers told us not to publish Schaubach’s
name; that interest in most cases would outweigh our desire to
de—stigmatize rape and our duty to report on the courts. In this
case, however, our responsibility to name the distributor of the
ﬂiers tipped the scales in favor of publication.

Recognizing that we cannot now reach our ideal of full
disclosure, we regret last spring’s decision to print Hughes’
name. In the future, our crime coverage will be less informative,
but more fair. Perhaps one day our community will mature to the
point that we do not have to take such measures to protect
innocent defendants from a presumption of guilt, and victims
from an undeserved social stigma.

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, September 10, 199

Q

Ellléi.

El Presidente passes out the bananas

WASHINGTON — The U.S.A.
has begun to look, sound and act like a
banana republic.

It’s no joke, Mr. and Mrs. North
America. Remember those crazy gov-
ernments to the south who kept power
by intimidating the peasants with state-
of-the-art military prowess, bribing
them with newly-printed government

tion campaign. From his Pentagon com-
mand post, Bush's defense secretary
signaled that the state of Missouri will
soon be producing a new batch of F15
fighters for Saudi Arabia.

Cost: Another escalation in the Mid-
east arms race.

Beneﬁt: 11 electoral votes.

Let's have no confusion about

money, scaring wha.“ mp‘
them from the 11;°“!‘:;o’nt:‘t’)’;;
Pulgggd M E, CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS ,,§,, W,
e y, _

Presidente Bush Tribune Media Services $‘“°k1°d .3‘
is leading us Blfagﬁyﬁuig
down the same _

congaline.With Ar8¢m"1a-

his government $4 trillion in debt, he
ﬂies his new, custom-made 747 down
to Texas with some good news for
local voters: they will soon be turning
out 150 new F165 for Taiwan.

Cost: An escalation of tensions in
the China Sea.

Benefit: 32 electoral votes on Nov.
3.

Back in Washington, there were
more salutes to the President’s re-elec-

who would roll up debt upon debt year
after year? Where the latest junta would
create its very own instant cash using
the govemment-owned printing press?
Where the nervous president would
keep his beloved palace by buying off
the right people, while the country's
real problems of unemployment, crime
and social division were put off to
some distant “maﬁana"?

Watch proud Yankee George Bush

dance this number.

With the 1992 budget alone $314
billion into the red, Bush told the storm-
wracked people of Florida last week
that the federal government is going to
cover the cost of Hurricane Andrew
dollar for dollar. Not the usual 75 per-
cent federal share. rriind you, 100 per-
cent!

Where's this new U.S. money to
come from? By borrowing more bil-
lions on the world market, adding up
more debt, more interest costs, more
deficits for later generations.

Cost: Impossible to calculate. When
an earthquake struck Northern Califor-
nia in 1989, the state and localities had
to pay part of the repair job. This cre-
ates an obvious incentive for local lead-
ers to do some timely planning, to try
and minimize the damage of future
earthquakes. The Hurricane Andrew
precedent means that when Hurricanes
Bill or Charlie come howling, the fed-
eral government will be asked to pay
the full tab once again. With what?

Benefit: 25 electoral votes.

Bush was equally generous to the

voters of Louisiana, promising to keep
out sugar imports, even though An-
.drew destroyed much of the domestic
crop. '

Cost: The consumer gets hit with
higher prices for sugar and everything
it goes into.

Benefit: 9 electoral votes.

Next stop, South Dakota. Bush gave

I

wheat farmers a billion dollars in I.1eW '

export subsidies.

Benefit: 3 electoral votes.

Finally, the biggest election—eve
bonanza of all: a promise to “index’
capital gains.

Not all voters are tempted by such,
temporal rewards. For them, there is
that ultimate weapon of the rightﬁhe
pulpit. Last week, we heard Vice Presi-
dent Dan Quayle railing against the
“adversary culture,” keeping up his
daily cnisade against Hollywood, the
“media elite” and other threats to the
voter’s soul. .

Put it together and you get theﬁold
banana republic battle cry:

Support the commander! Obey the
church! Take the bribe!

Election reads ike a lazy-day Trollope novel

, @112 ikittg-tum lﬂlrt‘

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joshua Marming

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Leigh Allen. Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nikki Magaziner

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
fund. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaperobserves current court definitions
of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON —- Trollope’s political novels
have been called ideal reading for a lazy Labor Day
weekend because if a breeze blows over a few pages
while you nap, never mind, plunge back in. The
narrative moves at such a measured pace that noth-
ing much will have been missed. This presidential
campaign may now be like that. Its themes are clear.

A Democrat more liberal than he wants to seem,
and a Republican less conservative than he wants to
seem, are leading parties whose differences have
narrowed, and whose ranges of politically possible
policies are narrow.

Liberalism developed when liberty was threat-
ened by the forces of

has shifted, to the disadvantage of Democrats.
Watergate and Vietnam caused an erosion of confi-
dence in governments. The mobility of money and
businesses inhibits governments because wealth
can ﬂee currencies threatened by inﬂation or juris-
dictions where growth is slow or government is
meddlesome.

So parties whose promises depend on strong
government are decreasingly plausible. Further-
more, long recessions and slow growth increase
individual anxiety and decrease social solidarity,
thereby weakening society’s support for collective
actions.

On the other hand, aspects of both

order -- state or church.

economic vigor and its absence can

Today'people feel more GEORGE WILL help Democrats. The boom of the
th tened b d’ d . . . 1980 swasunsettlingtomariypeople.
Mgegem Am’;ﬁc':n°']f,;_ Washington Post Writers Group vvhiie me U,s economy added 19
e,-a1ismdeV¢10p¢d;o,»e- million net new jobs, Fortune 500

dress a perceived imbalance between anemic gov-
ernment and the surging power of entities and forces
in industrial society. Now that (since last October)
government jobs oumumber manufacturing jobs in
America, an insufficiency of government is not seen
as the problem.

The Democratic Party's change of mind — its
movement toward the center — reﬂects recognition
that it cannot win the presidency by changing the
composition of the electorate. That is, it cannot win
by mobilizing non-voters among the poor and mi-
norities. Political scientist Ruy Teixeira of the

. Brookings Institution calculates that if turnouts by

blacks, Hispanics and poor whites had each been 20
percent higher in every state Bush won in 1988,
Dukakis still would have lost by 102 electoral votes.

Over the last 30 years America's political center

corporations shrank by 4 million jobs and from 58
percent of industrial output to 42 percent. Rapid
change generates stress, and thus generates support-
ers, and thus generates stress, and thus generates
supporters for a liberal party that equates any social
distress with “victimization" and a failure of gov-
ernment to enforce “faimess.”

The Bush recession was especially unsettling,
for three reasons. First, it came after the long -
ninety-two month — Reagan expansion which had
convinced people that business cycles are products
of government mistakes that government should
know how to avoid. Second, Bush's recession came
at the end of a low-saving decade, when people felt
particularly vulnerable. Third, it came when the
elite white collar component of the work force was
larger than ever. The recession involved much prun-

ing of middle management jobs, so articulate and

assertive components of the electorate (including jour-
nalists) were anxious.

The weakening of social solidarity, the erosion of
conﬁdence in government and the increase in anxiety
have made the issue of taxation paramount. Duringghe
second World War an Irving Berlin lyric was: "

You see those bombers in the sky?

Rockefeller helped to build them.

So did I.

In war Americans were shoulder-to-shoulder. To-’

day they are throwing elbows, especially about taxa-
tion. ,
The issue of taxation arose among English-spe?ik-
ing (sort—ot) people l,0()0 years ago under King Ethelred
the Unready, in connection with the Danegeld, an
armual tax for the defense of the realm— actually, to
pay tribute to the marauding Danes. Today George the
Implausible is promising a tax cut that Congresswill

.4.

v

not deliver, to be balanced by spending cuts his own ‘

party will not countenance. Clinton promises to bl.1l ld
a New Jerusalem by squeezing millionaires until they
squeak.

But considering that a hefty $4 trillion will be spent
on private consumption this year, it is odd for conser-
vatives to argue that any tax increase Congress is apt to
impose on individuals will radically reshape the
economy. It is equally implausible for liberals toﬂay
that Clinton's policy (management efficiencies, gov-
ernment spending to increase growth, and never a
discouraging word for the middle class that has most of
America's money) will alter the deficit that paralyzes
and disgraces government.

So if you nap for now, you will have no trouble
picking up the thread of this year's by-now famiﬂar
political narrative.

City spells out voting registration regulations *

To the Editor,
domicile.

abode does not necessarily determine

tions you may have concerning your

It is the position of the Lexington
City Council to encourage any stu-
dents who are legally entitledto vote in
the City of Lexington under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Virginia, and
wish to do so, to register with the City
to vote.

Registration Procedures

Any individual may apply for voter
registration with the City Registrar,
300 E. Washington Street, the county
Registrar in the basement of the Court-
house on East Washington Street,(this
office has an entrance on Washington
Street across from the frame shop) or at
any of the special registration sites.
Each individual will first be asked if
Lexington is their home and if they are
registeredelsewhere. Applicants should
note that the question refers to their
current domicile which may ormay not
be the same as their parents. A new
domicile is not attained until the until
the old one is abandoned. A person
demonstrates in the way in which he
conducts his life which of the places of
abode available to him is his domicile
although length of stay at a place of

If Lexington is not your home, but
you do reside within the Common-
wealth of Virginia, you may apply for
voter registration and your application
will be forwarded to the proper juris-
diction for processing,

If Lexington is indeed your home
then an applicant must complete a Vir-
ginia voter registration Application list-
ing the following: full name, including
the maiden and any other prior legal
name; age; date and place of birth;
social security number, if any; whether
the applicant is presentlyaUnited States
citizen; address and place of abode and
date of residence in the precinct; place
of any previous registrations to vote;
and weather the applicant as ever been
adjudicated to be mentally incompe-
tent or convicted of a felony, and if so,
under what circumstances the
applicant’s right to vote has been re-
stored.'I'his card is then signed and the
individual takes an oath under penalty
of perjury that the information pro-
vided is accurate.

The registrar will answer any ques-

application to register. The registrar
has the right to determine if any appli-
cant meets the requirements set froth in
the Constitution of Virginia and the
Code of Virginia. The registrar does
have the authority to ask questions
beyond what the application requests
as long as the registrar does not single
out one class of applicants such as
students, young people, or a particular
racial group.

Qualiﬁcations

To be qualified to vote in Lexing-
ton, you must be:

1) a citizen of the United
States

2) at least 18 years of age

3) a resident of the City of
Lexington

The Code of Virginia deﬁnes ‘ ‘resi-
dence” as follows:

“Residence" for all purposes of
qualification to vote, requires both do-
micile and a place of abode. In deter-
mining domicile, consideration may
be given to applicant's expressed in-
tent, conduct, and all attendant circum-
stances including, but not limited to,

suits, employment, income sources,

i

>..

4

.

financial independence, business pur- ,

residence for income tax purposes, ~

marital status, residence of parents,

spouse and children, any leasehol , '

sites of real and personal proper
owned by the applicant, motor vehicle
and other personal property registra-

tion, and other such factors as may ..

reasonably be deemed necessary to

determine the qualifications of an ap-

plicant to vote in an election district.
Ramifications of Registration

Once you register, Lexington then ‘
becomes your legal residence to be ._

used on all legal documents, tax re-
turns, resumes, job applications, ve-
hicle registration, etc.

While the Lexington City Council
encourages you to avail yourself of aﬂ
rights and responsibilities of residence,
we suggest that you discuss this with
your parents as your registration could
have an impact on their financial posi-
tion.

Sincerely, O
The Mayor and City Council
Lexington, Virginia

 

he Ring-tum Phl, September 10, 1992

he Face Book: W&L's religiousreading

Ni4:°GUY's OPINION
By Chris Citron

' Can you sense it? Can you smell it?
4 you almost taste it? YES! It’s
re. The most wonderful time of the
' ar.9The hour when expectations run
gh and excitement tingles the spine.
s this a song?) The most pleasurable
u ft that God has bestowed on our little
mmunity. The one publication that
akes me more excited than anything
se (except maybe my armiversary
sueiof “Girls’ School Girls In The
ude”)— The 1996 Face Book.
Absolutely. That little book of magic
I at helps us prepare for our bewitch-
. g throughout the year. It is the most
ught-after piece of literature by up-
rclassmen, as is evidenced by our
 ctbon to our friends the rriinute we
-- them after break and ask them
. ut their summer (which should be
v tlawed, by the way. Nobody really
ares and nobody else wants to tell it
r the thirty-seventh time in three
ours). “Have you seen the
reslmen?How do they look?Do you
ve a Face Book?” all asked quickly
*: (1 out of breath. Dorm counselors
uddenly become everyone’s best
. 'end, and Rush chairmen are just one
'-V pbelow, but only dueto the factthat
r eir editions are simple photo copies.
erywhen we finally find someone
ith the precious book, we beg and
ead and bite and scratch to see it.

And then, we ﬁnally get our hands on
it and we...

LAUGH, and drool,andlaugh
some more, and criticize and comple-
ment and then laugh some more, and
eventually start putting names to faces.
But not before we laugh for a final
time. Admit it: it is great entertain-
ment. The pictures are more than likely
not the
most ﬂat-

not good-looking." “I’ll bet you a case
of beer that she will be the hottest
freshman.”

And all of this because of one little
book.

Now freshmen, don’t think this is
all a joke. Unfortunately for you, it’s
not. It is the key to your very existence.
Without it, you are no one except a

potential
pledge or

tering be-
c a u s e
y o u r
m o m
probably
put a
photo in
that she
thought
wasador-

body?)

With the magic book, however, you 3
are Butch the potential pledge, or Kim,
with the hot body. (Or maybe Kim the
hot pledge and Butch the potential

hot
b o d y .
With the
m a g i c
b o 0 k ,
however,
you are

utch,
the po-
tential

able. I
will never
forget my freshman Face Book where
one guy’s picture (who will remain
nameless—Chris) had a picture of him
with his grandfather in the background.
In addition, you probably weren't
around when she wrote in your hobbies
either, and so some guy’s mother as-
suredly wrote “cooking” and
“babysitting” which, of course, goes
over real well with the fraternities, not
to mention freshman girls. His only
date will be with Scott Dittrnan’s kids.
Finally, it is quite amusing to see
what the freshman truly look like in
person and so the guessing becomes a
wonderful drinking game. “No, she’s

pledge,'or

K i m ,
with the hot body. (Or maybe Kim the
hot pledge and Butch the potential
body?). The Face Book becomes ev-
erything. Iri fact, I retract my previous
statement; it is not just a magic book;
it is God’s work; it is our bible.

And if I remember correctly, it is
also your bible. You do exactly what
we do, except that being a freshman,
you concentrate more on the guys and
girls faces than you do hobbies. Unless
you plan on using that to scam with.
“Hey, aren’t you Gwen? Aren't you
from Houston, Texas? Don’t you like
volleyball and horses? How did I know?
Well,....uh...aside from your bowed

legs, I could sense that you were the
type.”

But let’s get this straight right now
guys. You will get none this year. Or
very little. Unfortunately, while party-
ing is illegal for you, your female coun-
terparts will be enjoying the beer and
company of the upperclassmen. I do
not envy your position, because I have
been there. Actually, I’m still there,
but it is still not as bad apredicamentas
that of the sophomore girls, because
they will get even less.

Hate to say that girls (not), but you
do deserve it. Every year y'all do the
same thing. You get so excited that you
are the center of attention of the sopho-
mores and juniors and seniors, that you
deliberately forget you freshmen coun-
terparts. Guess what? It’s time to pay.
You’re no longer the center of atten-
tion, and guys do not forget. You will
be cast off, left alone to wallow in your
own pity, and drink beer with all your
girl friends. Don’t get me wrong; you
may get lucky with some freshman
guy, but that’s about it. Hey, what can
I say? You deserve it.

So freshman girls, pay attention.
Go out with the upperclassmen. We’re
much more fun anyway,.but don’t treat
the guys like the pledges they are. Re-
member them, hang with
them...sometirnes, and be cool. Don’t
end up like every other has-been beauty
queen in the sophomore comer. And
have a fantastic first year.

And live by the bible.

Amen.

.riving to Lexi

‘ros’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

ATTENTION WASHINGTON & LEE STU-
ENTS: PUBLIC NOTICE REGARDING THE STA-
OF CHRIS SWANN’S HUMOR COLUMN IN
I’ ' ING-TUM PHI:
Swann graduated. The column now only exists in
' e rriinds of those who were around to read it last year.
am his replacement -— well at least one of them. My
- — name is Tom Hespos and I am a junior from Long
land, New York — a place famous for its Duckling,
ed Tea, and its obnoxious Yankees. Go ahead, feel
-' R) make jokes, 1 know that you all secretly covet a
ouse in the Harnptons with a pool and tennis court, so
t’s just cut the crap, Okay?
Like many other W&L students, I packed up my car
with clothes. books and any piece of furniture that

ould fit in my trunk, and made a bee-line for W&iII.‘”

y route to school takes me down the Long Island
xpﬁssway, over assorted bridges, down the New
ersey Turnpike to Interstate 78, and ﬁnally gets me to
‘ xington via I-81.
The Long Island Expressway is an interesting place.
' rims about half of the length of the island in an East-
est direction, although some people insist on navel-
'ng North-South on it. This usually takes them into a
-, . 1. rail, but most LI drivers don’t seem to care. The
verage speed for the LIE is about 80 miles per hour,
hich means that if you own a slow car like my
Volkswagen Beetle, some problems arise. Things only
low up when one of the LIE’s two highway patrol cars
: eseen intlie vicinity, rather than at the local “Dunkin’
' nuts.”
My strategy for driving on the LIE is very simple: I
bare the road shoulder with the bicycles and mopeds
til I reach the bridges.
Traveling over this series of bridges, I land in New
ersey, “the Garden State,” hospital waste distributor
. r the majority of East Coast beaches. Never in my

0

Interviews and Photos
: by Jameson Leonardi

0

two decades of existence have I seen so many
useless road signs in one place. For example:
“Falling Rock.” What possible protection from a
20-ton falling boulder could this sign possibly
offer? Shhheeaaaahhh! Riiiightll As if...!
Another example: “State Police —— Next Right.”
This sign should read: “Slow Down — there's a
cop around this next bend.”
Fortunately, my driving time in New Jersey is
short. Onward into Pennsylvania!
Pennsylvania is a very thought-provoking state.
It’s very easy to get completely bored and lose
yourself in thought here. For instance —— on I-78 on
the left — hand side, there is a Keebler cookie
factory. About 1000 feet down the road is a Stroh’s
brewery. One might wonder- do the workers at
Keebler ever go over to the brewery trying to swap
boxes of E.L. Fudge for a keg? It boggles the mind.
I promised my editors that I would include a

Letterniarfistyle top ten list in ‘this column so here .-

oes...
g Top 10 cool things about Pennslyvannia
10) There are hardly any Texans around.
9) Amish country- agreatplace to pick up babes.
(Shall I yell “Not!” or wouldyou like to?)
8) Bill Clinton never inhaled marijuana smoke
here.
7) Was voted the state most likely to be overrun
by trees.
6) Speed checked by radar- for your protection.
5) Home of Kutztown University, the world's
most boring school.
4) Shares a border and lots of municipal waste
with New Jersey.
3) Philadelphia: where all 56 Rocky movies
were filmed.
2) One of the first states to outlaw dwarf-tossing
as a sport.
1) State named for Sean Penn, who at one point
was consistently having sex with Madonna.
From Pennsylvania, I venture into Maryland,

ngton is an adventure

“The Pansy State.” Named for Queen Mary the
Excessively Obese of Upper Volta, Maryland has
turned into a haven for preppies, Yuppie wanna-be’s
and similar types. Everyone slows down on the
interstate because a roving pack of state troopers has
been spotted driving pink Miatas with little green
alligators sewn on the bumpers. They pull me over
right after I cross the Mason—Dixon line so that they
might check my car for drugs and tasteless clothing.
People don’t believe me when I say that Southern
prejudice against Northemers begins right when
you cross “the line.” If you were to straddle it, you
would see the IROCs with handguns in their glove
compartments on one side and the armed pickup
trucks on the other. These vehicles never cross the
line.

Once Officer Skippy is satisfied with his search
of my car, (which incidentally, only turned up sev-
eral empty 7-11 “Slurpee” cups from the mid-70's)

_ 1am»ai1QW¢d1°—°°¥“ii‘“eF*ii‘L°~¥339~P¥°F‘*l¢~P‘l“i?i'
into "West Virginia. I pray to God that my voyage .

doesn't bring me past any sheep farms, lest I have a
fit of laughter that would cause me to lose control of
my car and smack into a concrete overpass support.

Not much can be said about West Virginia with-
out mentioning sheep or someone’s sister, and I am
sure that you have heard all of those jokes, so I will
refrain from using them right after I mention that
West Virginians have only recently discovered that
you can raise sheep for their wool.

Finally, I reach the state in which my destination
lies. As I approach the first of the three exits for
Lexington, the little pleasures of W&L life rim
through my head: the nights of drinking and falling
out of fraternity house windows, the Sweet Briar
girls throwing up on my ﬂoor, the No-Doz taken
before politics class that failed to work. I cniise past
the freshman dorms, pull into a space and step out to
stretch my legs and breathe the fresh air. I feel a tap
on my shoulder and turn around to see my arch-
nemesis Baner.

TALKBACK

Women's Forum

Women's Forum will hold its
first meeting of the year on Sunday,
Sept. 13, at 7:30 p.m. in Fairfax
Lounge. Food will be provided.
Everyone is invited!

The EC

The Executive Committee will
be interviewing students for posi-
tions on the Student-Faculty Hear-
ing Board onWednesday, Sept. 23.
Applications can be picked up out-
side of Carol Calkins’ office.

FD Chairmen

The Executive Committee will
be interviewing students for the po-
sitions of Fancy Dress chair, vice-
chair and auditor on Thursday, Sept.
24. Applications can be picked up
outside of Carol Calkins’ office in
the University Center.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will be
interviewing students for the posi-
tion of The Ring-tum Phi executive
editor on Tuesday, Sept. 22. Letters
of interest should be submitted to
Carol Calkins’ office in the Univer-
sity Center.

Calyx

Please pick up your 1992 Calyx

in room 206 of the University Cen-
.ter 2 - 4 p.m. Monday, Sept. 14
through Friday, Sept. 18.

Spout Off!

Let the campus read what you
have to say. Bring signed letters to
the editor and My Views to The
Ring-tum Phi office in University
Center room 208.

Get Advice

Questions for “Ask Dr. Worth"
can be submitted to Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center.

The Registrar

The Registrar's office is ﬁnaliz-
ing the infonnation for the Student
Directory. Please make sure they
have your correct local address and
phone number. Deadline to make
changes is Monday, Sept. 21.

Emergency

The new Security emergency
number is 463-8999.

Parking Info

Changes in parking enforce-
ment: All Gaines Hall residents are
no longer allowed to park behind
the Doremus Gym.

There will be strict enforcement
and towing of vehicles stopped in
the Reid Hall circle or in the rear of
the Co-Op. Students are not allowed
to park in these areas for any rea-
son. Flashing lights will not be an
excuse for parking on a yellow curb,
in handicap spaces, or in no parking
zones. Violations will result in a
$25 fine and the vehicle will be
towed at the driver's expense.

RACASA

Fall Volunteer Training Topics:
myths and facts, crisis intervention,
emotional issues, medical issues,
law enforcement issues, sex offend-
ers, child sexual abuse, risk reduc-
tion issues, specific populations.
Oct. 6 - Dec. 15, 1992. For more
information, call 463-7273.

Be International

Intetested in ' foreign cultures?
Want to meet the exchange stu-
dents? Come to the first Iritema-
Iional Club meeting of this year on
Tuesday, Sept. 15 at 8 p.m. in the
International House, 8 Lee Ave.
Refreshments will be served.

Get It Out!

Need to get a message to the
student body? Put it in the General
Notes. Leave a brief, typed note in
the General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office in room
208 of the University Center.

. What was your first impression of Lexington?

Martha Warthan, ’96,

-Richmond, Va. — “It was a
rainy, disgusting day and a lousy
tour, but I still fell in love with
W&L.”

Tyson Hilton, ’96, Huntington
Beach, Ca. — “I've seen pyg-
mies bigger than Lexington.”

Jill Sheets, ’96, Malvern, Pa.
— “Small and friendly.”

Jeff Zeiger, ’96, Columbus,
Ohio e “The businesses are
glad we’re here and the police
are extremely helpful.”

Julie Powell, ’96, Atlanta, Ga.
— “It's what every college town
should look like.”

Christin Roach, ’96,
Annapolis, Md. —— “I like the
patterns in the bricks and walk-
ing on them with naked feet.”

‘t
I

 

PAGE 4

FEATURES

Worth deals with social anxiety

ASK DR. WORTH

By Dr. James Worth

The “Ask Dr. Worth” column will return to The Ring-
tum Phi this fall every other week. Since itis too early for
me to have received any questions yet, I asked a Phi staff
member for some ideas. She suggested I say something
about social pressures here at W&L, especially with
regard to the incoming freshmen.

It has seemed to me that from a social standpoint the
fall term at W&L is, particularly for freshmen, the best
of all times and the worst of all times.It is the best of all
times (at least so far in your life) for many exciting
reasons. You are in an incredibly beautiful community,
surrounded by bright and attractive people your own
age, and given more social freedom than you've ever had
before. Our campus traditions emphasize socializing,
partyingandhavingfun,aswell

sports or on the social scene, everyone is seeking suc-
cess. Not everyone can come in first. Do your best, but
don’tbediscouraged if success does elude youoccasion-
ally this fall. It's OK not to have a date, not to get in the
house you wanted, not to have an A on the first English
paper, even if you were a standout high school student in
every way. Dig in for the long haul and by the time you
are a junior and a senior you'll have your share of
victories.

If you are a female:

(1) You, too, are going to be nished this fall by the
upperclassmen, but in a little different way than fresh-
man guys. That's not necessarily bad. Still, you need to
make good decisions, decisions which are self-esteem-
ing. Don’t let yourself become an item on someone
else’s agenda.

(2) There is a lot of alcohol at W&L. You will have
plenty of opportunities to drink. If you decide to abstain

. you will avoid many potential

as academic excellence. From
the earliest mixers, to the Fancy
Dress Ball next winter, to the
lush (pun only partially in-
tended) days of springtime in
the Shenandoah Valley, this is
a school where working hard
really is combined with the op-
portunity to play hard as well.

But as they say, every rose

has a few thoms. Freshmen are Center.

Questions to Dr. Worth can be
submitted in person or anony-
mously to either Room 128 of
the University Center or to
Carol Calkins in the University

problems, but the truth is not
everyone will make that deci-
sion. If you decide to drink
here, then keep in mind how
vulnerable you are if you be-
come intoxicated.

The decision to drink self-
protectively must be made in
advance, not after your 5th beer.
If you are going to drink, try to
have female friends with you
who will be sober enough to

uniquely vulnerable to a vari-
ety of stresses, pressures and
outright dangers, which through lack of experience they
may be unaware. Some of these may be unique to W&L,
but most, if in fact not all, of them are encountered on
every other American campus.
My sense is that freshman males don't always face the
same vulnerabilities as freshman females so I will sepa-
rate the genders as I make these reﬂections.

If you are a male:

(1) By all means avail yourself of the Rush activities
that present themselves to you if you are so inclined,
but keep it in perspective. Being a member of a
particular house is not a life or death matter.
Indeed, fraternity membership itself, like all
choices, has debits and credits.

Don't let yourself get pressured into a
premature choice. You can find peace, love
and happiness at W&L as a fraternity member
or as an independent, or you can be unhappy
either way.

(2) Don’t let the relaxed, convivial atmosphere
of the first few days here mislead you. You will most
likely be working harder than you ever dreamed possible
within the first few weeks after classes begin. Keep your
priorities straight. Budget your time. There are many
opportunities to play hard but you have to pay the piper.

(3) This is a highly competitive place, as well as being
friendly. Whether it be in the classroom, in intramural

 

help you should that be neces-
sary. Drink slowly and moderately enough that you
always know what you are doing and feel in control of
yourself. If you think you've reached your limit, switch
to soda. Don’t let anyone pressure you to drink or to
drink more/faster than you want to.

(3) There is also a lot of sexual activity at W&L. You
will have plenty of opportunities for that, too. You need
to make your choices consistent with your values and
health (mental as well as physical). Pregnancy, STD’s
and even sexual violence are risks if you choose to be
sexually active, though you can take precautions that

will reduce the risk level. Remember, guys may

play kiss and tell games. Just don’t think that
casually hooking up with someone on Satur-
day night will always be a well-kept secret.

Trust me, it won't. It also won't necessarily

lead to either friendship or further romance.

(4) As with freshman males, don’t expect

to be consistently successful this fall. In fact,

try defining success in broader ways. Not

having a date gives you an opportunity to do other

things which may be just as enjoyable. Not getting into

a particular activity frees you up for something else. Not

getting high grades on your first set of exams educates
you about the academic realities of this place.

Sometimes we can learn more from our perceived
failures than our so-called successes, which means they
really weren't failures after all.

\

The Ring-tum Phl, September 10, 199 »

A survivial guide to men's Rush

Upperclassmen give tips for enjoying the chaos .

By JENNIFER LATHAM
Phi Staff Writer

Although fraternity Rush has been described as a trip
through hell to get to heaven, most freshman men manage to
cultivate good memories in the first three frenzied weeks of
college.

“You can look at it this way,” sophomore Adam Plotkin
said. “It’s a bunch of free parties that present great ways to
meet people. It’s one of the most hectic times in a guy's life,
but it's also one of the most enjoyable.”

Among upperclassmen’s favorite Rush activities are
Tear Night and casual afternoons spent at the houses.

“I enjoyed the skeet shoots
and parties out at houses in the
country,” junior Mac Tisdale
said.

“A lot of plarming goes into
the afternoons of open contact
when the freshman guys are
taken to Goshen and to play
golf,” he said.

Meeting fraternity brothers
in classes also contributes to
freshmen’s memories of Rush
and, ultimately, the decisions
they make.

“I met a guy in a drama class
who became one of my good
friends and was my big brother
when I joined the house," senior
John Godfrey said. “The
strength of that friendship was
evident on Tear Night, because
I knew I'd joined the right

 

tlvltles of Tear Night.

On weekriights, while the seasoned Rush veterans are
busy welcoming swarms of freshman men to their houses,
freshman women generally entertain themselves by observ-
ing the pre-party hoopla.

“Last year we sat and looked out my window and
watched the parade of guys in tan pants, bucks and navy blue

jackets,” sophomore Beth Provanzana said.

This attire is made possible largely to the domestic
services freshman women offer the nishees.

“I found out that no guys know how to iron,” sophomore

 house.”

. Stacy Cofield said.

In the past, freshman women were not spectators to the
extent that they are today at W&L.

“I remember being curious, confused and unfamiliar
with Rush terms during those weeks, but women in classes
before mine could go with guys to the Rush parties,” senior
Teresa Williams said. Williams said this firsthand experi-
ence was either beneficial or aggravating, because women
who were invited were either “ignored or paid attention to,
depending on what the guys preferred at the time.”

Among other things, women can benefit from the extra
study time and much-needed sleep during men's Rush.

 

SOME W&L men enjoy the bachannallan ac-

“We got to watch T.V. in the Graliam-Lees lounge; we
actually had it to ourselves,” Provanzana said.

Time for relaxation seems to be taken for granted b ‘
women, who cannot fathom the pressure experienced by the
men. “All the guys were asking, ‘What are we going to do
next?’ while all the girls were asking, ‘Where's the next
party?’” sophomore Stacy Bogert said.

Sophomore Stephanie Sheperd agrees. “As a freshman,
frat parties became kind of overwhelming. A lot of people
had never experienced something quite that wild. It was
nice to have a break from it,” she said.

However, on weekends when the parties are in full

swing,freslirnan women should heed the advice of uppertﬁass _

women who have experienced the delirium.
“Don’tcarryany type of con-
tainer with you from party to
party,” said Williams.
don’t take it personally if guys

goal is to meet other guys”;

“Trytohitasmanyhousesas
possible,” said Provanzana.

“I would've liked to have
met more people by going to
more than one house on Tear
Night,” sophomore April Powell
said.

O
Sheperd agrees that fresh-

tliemselves by staying at one
P311)’-

“Tryto meetupperclassmen,
rather than being intimidated and
standing in a corner, keeping to
yourself," Powell said.

As for the men, the most ba-
sic advice is to keep an open
mind and to pledge the frateniity that has the most comfort-
able atmosphere.

“Visit as many houses as possible,” senior Mark Van
Deusen said. This can make a difference in the end of R h.

“There's a place for everybody,” sophomore Michael
Neal said.“We’re trying to impress the freshman guys just
as much as they're trying to impress us.”

“You should be looking for the best brotherhood in a
group of guys you'll be spending the next four years with
here,” Godfrey said.Above all, the brothers of W&L frater-
nities stress staying in control.

“Don’t get too drunk, and avoid the Lexington police lﬁre
the plague,” Godfrey said. ,

Though fraternity Rush can suddenly thnist men into a
whirlwind of activity, some brothers urge moderation.

“The key word is ‘balance’,” sophomore Brian Hucks
said. “Rush is important, but classes are, too.”

File Photo

Although in these next few weeks being a part of a '

brotherhood may seem like the end—all, be-all of a gu6"s
existence, just being a part of Rush is key.

“Tell yourself it's not the end of the world if you don ’t get
into a fraternity,” Neal said, “because the world will go on.”

Brotherhood.

From its modest beginnings in 
Lambda Chi Alpha has emerged as one o 
strongest fraternities in North America,, 

 

over 200 chapters at colleges and unive

in the United States and Canada. Lambda 
. is a known leader in the fraternity 
establishing the standards for excelle s
. ..tie,,§.,a.i;e..

 
 

which all frate .
surpassed iii 33  
national frat

  

   
  
   
     
  
     
   

The Brothers    

‘e    -tivation of good‘,

Gamma-Phi"  Pounded Cl 922

225 East Nelson Street,  from Davidson Park
463-2600
President — Tom Molony
Rush Chairmen —— John Godfrey and Chris O’Hagan

 years ago, we set the standard;
 .\ we are the leaders. Over 200,000
 Lambda Chis can't be wrong.

fe objectives  Lambda Chi Alpha .
are a tie establishment" of brotherhood for

9

among men, the
el of patriotism, .
 g and the

   
 

 

“And .

don't talk to you a lot — their

man women should not limit I

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1992

O

  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

By Joyce BAUTISTA
. Phi Features Editor

The talk continues even three

onths after downtown Lexington’s
ansformation from a small college
own to a bustling post-Civil War me-
opolis. For two days in June, the city
- came the settin g of “Sommersby,” a
it ﬂtimillion—dollarmotionpicture star-
ing Jodie Foster and Richard Gere,
A hich brought chaos to the otherwise
. leepy town.
‘ “I’ve never seen so many people in
owntown Lexington before,” W&L
irector of Communications Brian
Slmw said. “It was like a Christmas
parade.”

Shaw served as a liaison between
the movie crew and Washington and
Lee.

He said the university allowed the
use of the Sigma Nu and Phi Delta
Tlsta fraternity houses for costuming
and make-up during the two-day shoot.

The old Troubadour Theatre was
also used as a holding area for extras
and the back for set construction, Shaw
said.

Evans Dining Hall was the place to
ﬁrd the cast and crew catching a bite to
eat.

“Jodie Foster ate in the D—hall,”
sophomore Chris
Albert, a location in-
tern, said, “but Rich-
ard Gere ate in his
tr ‘ er.”

e preparations
, began Tuesday, June
, Albert said.

Storefronts were
redone along Wash-
ington and Main
str ets.

‘Albert went to all
the local businesses to
check that all air con-
ditioners and televi-
sion antennas were
removed.

A “We had to make
sui% that nothing of the 20th century
sneaked into our 19th-century set,”
Albert said.

At 9 p.m. Tuesday night, chunks of

 

Photo by Patrick McCabe
Gere

Filming in downtown Lex

Hollywood crew invades city

FEATURES

Photo courtesy Chns Albert

Sophomore Chris Albert (center) poses wlth the cast and crew of
“Sommersby," lncludlng Jodie Foster and Richard Gere.

closed off, Shaw said. .

“ ‘Sommersby' trucked in two dump
trucks of dirt and sand to transform the
streets of Lexington," he said. “The
day before the street
lights wereremoved.”

Wednesday the

cameras started roll-
ing.
Actors’ trailers
stretched from the
comer of Nelson and
Main to the court-
house at Washington
Street.

Shaw said Gere's
trailer was located in
front of the court-
house.

“Every time he
stuck his head out of
his trailer there were
screams and yelps,”
he said.

Though Gere had throngs of female
admirers sighing at his every move,
Foster also had her share of fans and

The scene shot Wednesday involved

the film was shot in the George Wash-
ington National Forest.

“We worked closely with the Vir-
ginia Film Office,” Shaw said. “We
helped find the crew good places to
shoot.”

Shaw said he and location manager
Scott Elias became great friends
through the experience.

Shaw said he worked closely with
the “Sommersby” crew helping with
media coverage.

“There were five different TV sta-
tions covering the shoot,” he said. He
also helped coordinate news confer-
ences with director Jon Amiel, Foster
and Gere.

“It was a lot of work but also a ton
of fun,” he said.

“Elias is working hard to get W&L
aﬁlm credit,” Shaw said. “Gere, Foster
and Amiel left with a lot of W&L
paraphernalia.”

Albertsaidlocalestablishmentsben-
efited from the large “Sommersby”
crew.

Shaw estimates that approximately
$500,000 to $1 million was pumped
into the local economy because of the
two-day shoot.

Gere ridingupwashingtononhishorse Gere jammed with the band at the
and Foster with their on-screen son in Willson-Walker House on Thursday
a carriage. night, the ﬁnal day of

Filming these few filming. Elias, onkey-
minutes of footage boards. joined in with
took all day, Shaw the guitar-strumming
said. Gere.

On Thursday, the They were shut
hanging scene was down, to many fans’
shot behind the Main disappointment, by
Street Mall. Lexington Police Sgt.

This shot was to- “Bucky” Miller.
tally prohibited tothe “I don'tknow how
public, Albert said. A they could even think

black curtain was
used to control the
scene.

“We had to keep
people from peeking
outtheirwindowsand
taking photographs,”
Albert said.

That afternoon, Shaw said, the crew
was pulling people off the streets to be
extras.

Only three scenes were actually shot

  

Photo by ‘Patrick Mccabe
Downtown Main Street

of shutting Richard
Gere down,” Albert
said.

Shaw said Foster
kept a lower profile.

“Someone said
they saw her at The
Palms one night,” he

 

said.

The post-Civil_ War love story is
slated for release, possibly with a dif-
ferent title, around Christmas or early

 

PAGE 5

ACROSS
1 Low
5 Lather
9 Part or a

dance?

12 Tropical plant

13 Small fly

14 Work by Frost

15 Judicial decree

17 lmpolite

18 “Ben--—"

19 Yeltsin's land:
abbn

20 Fee

22 Delivered

23 Break into
pieces

24 Meager

26 Uses a razor

27 Obese

28 Backbone

29 Certain actor

32 Newman or
Lynda

33 Indicate

34 Office need

35 Schedule abbr.

36 Speak

37 Above: prel.

38 Domingo and
Pavarotti

40 Steed

41 Knaves. old
style

43 Unruttled

44 Kay Thompson
heroine

45 Ago

46 Oolong

49 Cross

50 Open areas

53 Capitol's root

54 Wearies

55 Food regimen

56 Suppositions

57 Coaster

58 Sp. lady

DOWN

1 Classical
composer

2 Name of
baseball
brothers

3 Tart

4 Always. to a
bard

Colonnade Crossword

 

01992 Tribune Media Services. Inc.

All Rights Reserved

5 Initial
6 Chances
7 Ripen
8 Vendor
9 Wooings
10 Row of shrubs
11 Eastern VIP
13 Steed
14 Chatter
16 Eng. river
21 Own
22 Writer Bellow
23 Glow
24 Night sight
25 Trial places
26 Barbecue
equipment
27 Health farm
28 Rises high
30 To shelter
31 Mal de —
33 Shields
34 Roll up, as a

flag
36 Individuals
37 Grimy
39 Omit a syllable

  

The answers will

appear in this
space next week.
CH MEA REALTORJ
L030 BRING l_B i
AMER LOOSE Votll

ARV ENTER EE .3

40 Party givers
41 “Aida"

46 Threesome
47 Biblical garden

composer 48 The Thin Man's
42 Distant dog
43 Had concern 51 Grease
45 Unsullied 52 Total

Attention All Seniors!

Mandatory Senior Placement Meeting,
Thursday, Sept. 17, at 4 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The Senior Packet will be distributed at this
time. Student athletes will have the same
meeting at 7 p.m. in the University Center,
Room 114.

 

 
 

  
  

 
  
 

  

 

     
   

  

1 Main and Washington streets were admirers, Shaw said. in Lexington, Shaw said. The bulk of spring next year. Albert said.
...__ ._,....._ ............ . . . ., ,_ .. __
I C. I
O O
. .
0
$1204 ‘3/40
, 33° 4/40 $988 *4/40 $1413 *5/80

i , 988 4/80

0
. Apple Macintosh PowerBook'" 145 4/40 Apple Macintosh Classic” II Apple Macintosh LC .1 Apple Macintosh Ilsi

' Get over ‘400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 — and only

Appl€® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever. at your authorized Apple campus reseller.
' And if you are interested in ﬁnancing options, be sure to ask for  . T -. _
details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student '"

O,
‘ For further information Vlslt the

4. in Tucker Hall 
. and ask for Mac McCloud

44 ‘Keyboard and monitor not included
< or call 463-88
© 1992 Apple C()lnpUlCl’, Inc. Apple. the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. Powerllook is a trademark of Apple Computer, lnc. The Random House Encyclopedia '5 a tradernark of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic 'I'hcsaunts, and

. Correc’l'ext‘' tlcvclnpcd by Houghton Mifflm Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Rogers ll: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by language Systems, lnc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. liesurnéwriter is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark

’ of their respective liultlcrs. Offer got lll on the Macintuslt PowcrBook 145 4/40 conﬁguration only. All qualifying computers come preloaded with software and electronic versions of instntctions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in this offer.

 

 

PAGE 6

September 10, 1992

Fraternity Fienaissace rolls on

By J OSHUA MANNING
Phi Managing Editor

In the final phase of Fraternity Re-
naissance, Washington and Lee com-
pleted two houses this summer, began
two more, and left three caught in con-
struction quagmire.

W&L Capital Planning Coordina- «
tor Frank Parsons said he expects that
the entire Renaissance program, in-
cluding thenew Sigma Phi Epsilon and
Sigma Chi houses in Davidson Park,

   

will be completed by September 1993.

Not a formal pan of Renaissance,
Chi Psi has independently been reno-
vating its house to meet the university’s
new fraternity standards. Renovations
include building a house mother's suite,
creating more student housing, rede-
signing their party room and adding a
patio and additional bathrooms.

Chi Psi Lodge Manager Mark
Connelly said the work, which was to
be completed by Sept.l, fell behind
due to problems with their independent
contractor. He said the 23 students that
will live in the house planto moveinby
Sept. 20.

“By that time, the first two ﬂoors
should belivable,’ ’Connelly said. “But
the ‘entire project will be done by Octo-
ber l.” House residents have found
temporary lodging in Gaines and
Woods Creek, causing a controversy
between fraternity members and law
students sharing Woods Creek Cen-
tral.

University Security Director
Michael Young saidhis office received
complaints from law students about a
loud party the night after Chi Psi mem-
bers moved into Woods Creek.

To settle the situation, the univer-
sity moved the fraternity members to
Woods Creek West and Gaines.

Despite a recommendation from
Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins

  

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-rum Phi

Construction workers at Chi Psi place gravel for a walkway connecting the front of the fraternity house
to the newly-renovated party room. chi Psi hopes to complete constuction by October 1.

against holding Rush in the house,
Connelly and Chi Psi Assistant Rush
Chairman Matt Gilman said enough of
the construction will be completed in
time to host Open Houses and parties.

“We’re taking all the precautions
necessary to have a party,” Gilman
said. “We’re real confident in that.”

Gilman said the basement party
room and patio will be ﬁnished for
Rush. He also said the fraternity will
hire security guards to patrol areas un-
der construction whenever guests are
in the house.

Kappa Alpha, originally slated for
completion last month, fell behind
schedule earlier this year. Parsons said
that the work fell even further behind
this summer. The target date for KA to
reoccupy their house is Jan. 1.

KA will hold their Rush Dates and
Open Houses in the University Center,
KA President Hank Huff said. The
fraternity will host their rush parties in
the Boiler Room on Henry Street.

Delta Tau Delta, removed from Re-
naissance when the chapter was sus-
pended for vandalizing their house last
winter, reapplied in July for an esti-
mated $400,000 in repairs to their Lee
Avenue house. No changes will be
made to the blueprints finalized by the
university last year.

Parsons said the university is taking
bids for the Delt project now and ex-
pects construction to begin this fall and
to be ﬁnished by next fall.

‘ ‘But remember, they will be on
critical probation for three years,’ ’ Par-
sons said. “That means if they stub

their toe, they ’re out.”

Pi Kappa Phi and Phi Kappa Psi
moved back into their East Washing-
ton Street houses last week to find
several rooms devoid of furniture.

“It’s just one of these things that
shouldn't have happened,” Parsons
said. “There was a misunderstanding
in placing the orders. It turns out we
were given some bad information.”

Both houses are missing furniture
fortheirliving rooms and diningrooms.
Until the permanent furniture arrives
next week, both houses are being sup-
plied with furniture by the university’s
interior design company.

But that is a minor problem to Pi Phi
House Manager Todd Burkey.

‘ ‘The house is exceptional, ’ ’ Burkey
said. “It really is nice.”

Phi editor resigns; board seeks replacement

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

Gore campaign.

Eisenhauer will work in Washington, D.C., writ-
ing position papers and providing coordinators with

Ring-turn Phi Executive Editor Tom Eisenhauer
resigned in August, and the Publications Board

plans to replace him.

Eisenhauer was one of two Phi executive edi-
tors. He withdrew from W&L for fall term to take a
position as administrative assistant in the Clinton/

Whaddya mean you don’t like it?
STOP WHINING and write a letter to the editor.

support for campaign stops around the country.
Eisenhauer said he will return to W&L for classes
in January, but will not resume his former position.
‘ ‘I didn’t think it would be fair to the staff to take
off fall term and then come back and try and resume
my old position,” Eisenhauer said.
Applications for the position are due Sept. 18. The

Pub Board will conduct interviews on Sept. 22.

position.

Photographers Needed!
1 No experience necessary!
Must own 35mm gear
& access to car.
Call 800-235-5101
for more information.

V-«$0?-AVIV).

  .
wwwW(_,.. 4

 

\
'liS'l‘l.\'(}

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT Is WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

to reach the same goal.

E

© I 99.7 7}arb(r.r IIIJM/'1lIl(‘( am} A/rnuz'(_y /iJ.rnrk1IIl)n/(‘Ir//{qr Rt/irtmtnl E4/uiII'z.r Fu/II}.

/

Can't afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to goyears or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $190 each
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $l92,53t)* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $227each month

join them?

your side.

Start plannirg yourﬁcture. Call our Enrollment Hotline I 800 842-2888.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.5M

Even ifyou're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve-
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of‘invest-
ment choices, and a record of‘ personal
service that spans 7;, years.

Over a million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of‘
their list for retirement planning. Why not

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you

have time and TIAA-CREF working on

J

I

’A.4.4Iuru'/I; an irrteral rate 0/ Z596 M23114? to TIA/1 Rglirmwnt Annuilza. T1511 rate 11 we? ooh/y to «bow [be power an? eﬂed of amt/zau/I9iny. Lower or ﬁigbzr mm WDUI3
praauzz Very Mata! raulb. CREFtzr!JI'4'a!a are 3I'1!rt$ult3 5y TIAA- CREF ln3ivI31uz/ a/I3 Irutilulwnal Scrvzirza.

The board named senior Rick Peltz, one of last
year's Phi editors, as Eisenhauer’ s temporary replace-
ment. Peltz said he would probably apply for the

“We're all excited that Tom has this opportunity,
but he’ll definitely be missed up in the office,” Phi
Executive Editor Cathy Lopiccolo said.

The Pub Board voted Lopiccolo temporary presi-
dent until elections in October.

Memo From:

I

Grand jury fails
to indict Hughes .

Cl HUGHES from page 1

Schaubach said she managed to free
herself at one point and stand up but did
not leave the room. She said Hughes
pulled her back onto the bed and started
kissing her while she tried to tell him
that she could not have sex with him
because she had a boyfriend at Virginia
Military Institute.

Schaubach said Hughes let her go
when she told him she would go break

up with her boyfriend and come back.

She said in court that she did really
have aboyfriend, but made the story up
in order to get away.

Schaubach also said she tried to
scream once, but Hughes silenced her
by kissing her on the mouth.

During cross—examination,
Schaubach said she and other Sweet
Briar students were responsible for
posters that appeared on the W&L carn-
pus earlier in the spring. The ﬂiers
accused Frjis of raping women and
videotaping brothers having sex with
women without the women knowing
the taping was taking place.

Hughes’ attorney, Thomas Simons,
also said Schaubach and a friend met
with Lexington Police Chief B.M.
‘ ‘Bruce” Beard several months before
and told him that some Fiji members
had videotaped women and chapter
members having sex.

‘ ‘Were you both not told at that time
to stay away from the Fiji house?”
Simons asked.

“I don’t recall,” Schaubach said.

Lexington Police Officer Steve
Crowder, who investigated the alleged
rape attempt, testified that the woman
told him she had seen a red ﬂashing
light in the room that could have been
a video camera.

Crowder said he searched the room
where the alleged rape attempt took
place and found two videotapes, but
the content of the tapes was not related
to the complaints.

Bernard Porter, a senior Fiji mem-
ber who lived in the room where the
alleged incident took place, said he
entered the room May 10 and saw
Schaubach and Hughes standing next
to his desk.

Porter said he talked to Hughes
brieﬂy, and then Hughes and Schaubach
left the room. He said nothing about

THE COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

111 West Nelson Street in Lexington

Welcome Back Everybody!
We Missed You!

Check Our New Shipment Of

-Duckhead Shorts
0 B.D. Baggie’s Shirts
P-RuffHewn Pants

°Super Exclusive W&LTee /_

Schaubach’s actions or appearance in-_

dicated that there was anything wrong. .

Porter also said that there had never

been a video camera in his room.

Hughes did not testify at the hear-
ing. ’
Simons said Wednesday the deci-
sion came as a relief _for Hughes.
“I’m just happy for Rick and hi

family,” Simons said. ‘ ‘I just hope tha
it will go away.”

w&L,sBc  P
react to news V"

A a charge of attempted rape.

‘ said several studentsheldacandle-

. Dean of Student’ Affairs Robert
 Barlow encouraged her and otha‘

 . . Barlow denied tellingihis stu-

‘ .‘ ‘I don ’t know what you’re talking T

By LEIGH ALLEN 9
Phi News Editor

Sweet Briar College students
reacted with shock and disappoint-
ment Wendsday to the news that a
W&L student was not indicted on

’ Sweet Briar senior ‘AmyfEller

light procession in support of Jodi
Schaubach, thewoman who testi-1
ﬂed that Richard Hughes attempted
to rape her at the Phi Gamma Delta
house last year. V V ; I V_ 
“We were not protesting the
grand jury's decision,’ ’ Eller said.’
‘ ‘We were just showing support
for [Schaubach]? t j
‘ V Eller said Sweet Briar College

students notto‘ protest the deci-
sion. , _ . , 
“He didn’t'want us to causea.
big stink,” Eller said; .

dents not to protest. _ V 
’ “I didn’t know there was‘ an
attempted rape case,’ ’ Barlow said.

about.” t‘ A V _

— Fiji junior Larry Brown‘ said’
the" fraternity is‘ pleased with the
grand jury's decision . V

‘ ‘We supported Rick and main,__
tained that he was innocent from *
thebeginning," Brown said. “Jus-_
tice was served in the end.”,_ " ' 

 

.-
o

 

   
 

Spain

Arnex Master Card Visa House Charge
China Japan‘ France Denmark m’
Study Abroad! 2
. A - 5 '
et outside the borde §
(5
E General Information §_
'3 Meeting 3

Rm. 114 Student Center

October 20
7 - 8 p.m.

Galapagos

   

  
 

  

  
  

"\‘.\..‘V\..‘\l.."t.\.‘\‘.\..'\’.\..'\’..\..‘\‘..\..‘\.. ’ \

Costa Rica

If you haVen’t read George Will or
Christopher Matthews today, then t

you haven’t read page 2 in the Phi. .

The Phi is your source for today’s best
syndicated columnists.

 

4

Y
n

E

I

A

I
I
~‘L.__....______...I

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1 992

SPORTS

RH arrls Teeter

  NECTARINES
° AND PLUMS

sHR|MP.......LB.

Menus Iomcisl

   
   
  

DELI-BAKERY
BOLOGNA

SLICED
. TO ORDER

   
   
    
  

STUDENT'S
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER
. COURTESY CARD.

‘ I'I3lI'I$T8«8I'BI

YOUR. NAME
YOUR ADDRESS

YOUR CITY. STATE
0 , X/X 0lI0iI0l

lllllll -

Illll

 

IT ALLOWS You TO
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER 134
HARRIS TEETER
IoCArIONs IN
GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS SI .00
COUPON AND SAVE.

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON
I 00 OEE '
9 I
I

I

I

I ANY $3.00 OR MORE

I. PURCHASE IN OUR FULL I
I sERvIcE DELI- BAKERY I
I

I

I

I

THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I
LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT
OFFER GOOD SEPT. 9 THRU SEPT. 15, I992

. couPoN
0 ALUE

O

  I BREYEIIS

ICE CREAM

 

I REDUCED PRICE

DIET PEPSI OR

PEPsI-coI.A

 

PAGE 7

High expectations placed
on men's soccer team

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Call them the Generals. Call them
“Piranian’s Piranhas”, if you like. Just
don’t call them the best team ever un-
der coach Rolf Piranian, unless he says
so.

“'Ihere’s potential for this to be a
very good year,” said Piranian, “but
you're putting the cart before the horse
to call it a good team right now.”

Coach Piranian felt that undo pres-
sure was put on his squad by an article
in the Rockbridge Daily Press that
called his ’92 Generals “..probably the
best that Piranian has had during his
tenure at W&L.”

“I was upset by that,” said Piranian.
“That didn't come from us [Piranian
and assistant coach John Burgess].”

Although the coaches aren’t seeing
stars over the Generals’ potential, they
feel that the team should be on the
upswing if they can avoid the injury
bug that infected their 1991 campaign,
which they ended at 8-6-2, 4-3 in Old
Dominion Athletic Conference play.

Senior midﬁelder Mike Mitchem,

‘W&L’s career assist leader with 16,

had two goals and two assists in the
first four games of last season, but saw
action in only one of the remaining 12
games due to a knee injury.

“We never had our_top 1 1 players in
the lineup together last year,” Piranian
said.

According to Piranian, there have
been no major injuries thus far, but
minor sprains have limited the practice
time of Mitchem and freshman Chad
Dobbins, who may challenge for a start-
ing spot.

The Generals open their ’92 season
this weekend in the Franklin & Marshall
Tournament, but the commanding gen-
eral isn’t predicting a third straight
tournament title for Washington and
Lee.

“We had an intersquad game last
week and it wasn’t where we wanted to
be,” he said. “Playing back-to-back
games is tough, but we may have the
depth on this team to challenge for it.
We've changed the formations a little
bit this year and it'll take a little time
for things to fall into place.”

Photo by Jameson Leonardt,

  

The Fling-tum Phi

Coach Piranian hopes this kind of hounding by senior Reid Murphy
will produce goals for the Generals. After a successful 1991, W&L
is expected to challenge for the ODAC title this year.

The goaltending position seems to
have fallen into the right place, though.
Senior Mike Steinbrook will continue
to defend the keeper position he won
midway through last season.

“It was clear in the second half of
last year that he was our number one
goalie," said Piranian.

In the 1991 ODAC Tournament,
Steinbrook saved his best performance
for what was, unfortunately, the Gen-
erals last performance. In a 1-0 semiﬁ-
nal loss to undefeated Virginia
Wesleyan, Steinbrook made a season
high 15 saves. Steinbrook finished the
season with a .859 save percentage and
a paltry 1.23 goals against average.

“He was just awesome,” Piranian
said. “It was the greatest game of his
career.”

In front of Steinbrook this year will
be the familiar 6’3" All-South Atlan-
tic sweeper Greg Williams. Williams
was the Generals defensive MVP last
season and looks to protect W&L’s
half ofthe field. Hisjob will be a little
more difficult this year with the gradu-
ation of fel low defenders David Hooker
and John Ziegler. However, a strong

offensive squad should help keep the
pressure on the other side of the center
ﬁeld line.

W&L’s top five point scorers from
last season return, including All-South
Atlantic forward Reid Murphy. More
significant than Murphy’s 1991 totals
of nine goals and two assists, including
four game winners, is the fact that
when Murphy scored, the Generals
were 7-0.

“Reid is the key player for us,” said
Piranian. “He’s an outstanding offen-
sive player.”

Piranian, who now ties his former
coach Joe Lyles’ mark of 17 straight
years guiding W&L men’s soccer,
hopes that these pieces will fall into
place and land the team in the national
tournament for the ﬁrst time in his
tenure. .

“I felt a year or two that we should
have been selected,” he said. “I won’t
be happy until I make it there.”

When Coach Piranian finally does
make the Division III national tourna-
ment, it will probably then be with the
best team he has coached in his tenure
at W&L.

 

 

64 OZ. HT-
OIIANGE JUICE

ONLY WITH
DAIRY I
G

I

I

I

I THIS COUPON

I .

I

I

  Q}

“ "“r°I‘i‘I"E°6“i’»i‘é‘§°"‘

This Con
0 "-7
Repro ucecf. Limit,

5.
°"°-"'°‘I’=i.’.‘."I‘/3'. 34»

nMay_

\-.»‘

FomI ,

 
 
 
    
  

ONLY WITH
THIS co,u3oN

TI’I' C‘
I i‘toII?B,eo(I’?‘¢‘3I;E):n ucae)i:I. DE”
ne 0 on '
I 'I'¥‘e}ra ily " BAKERY I

VIsIt. OI?er Coird

I SeptemI>er9Thru
Septemberl5,l992 

L....__...._....___..I

COUPO
VALUEN E
5002

Prices Effective Through September I5, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday September 9 Through Tuesday. September 15, 1992. In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

l

I

Yo parents!
There’s only one
Way to besure

  you don’t miss
the news at W&L.
SUBSCRIBE.

For a year’s subscription, just
send $30 payable to
The Ring-tum Phi, P.O. Box

899, Lexington, Va. 24450

SPECIAL INTRO PRICE
FOR FRESHMAN

PARENTS: $25  

 

 

"This Week:

Football- vs. E&H 9/12

Water Polo- W&L Classic 9/ 12-13
M Soccer- at F&M Toumy 9/ 12-13
W Soccer- at Va. Wesleyan 9/ 12

\Volleyball- at CNP 9/ 12

@112 ‘tiling-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

3

PAGE 8

Water polo
set to open
in Classic

By Cr-nus SANTORA
Phi Contributing Writer

'l'he young Washington and
Lee water polo team has its work
cut out for them this season, try-
ingtotopasuccessful 1991 cam-

gn.

However.theexpectations for
this year's team are high. Coach
Page Rem-
illard sees
depth as key
to a good sea-
sort.
With all
the possible
starters.Rem-

illard has
been reluc-
tant to namea
starting line-
upand seniorChrisHaggeagrees
with the decision.

“There are so many players
who could work their way into
the starting lineup. It would be
almost impossible to name a
definite starting lineup,” said
I-Iagge.

I-lagge is one of the returning
players Remillard will count on
heavily. He had 18 goals and
was a Division III honorable
mention recipient in 1991.

There are only three seniors
on the entire squad this year,
Hagge, Andrew Pearson and
PJ. Waicus. Each will play a
vital role this season, especially
Waicus.

The team will rely heavily on
its All-American goalie. In 1991
Waicus saved 55 percent of all
shots. had a good 6.6 goals per
gameaverageandwill bekey to
anchon'ngtheGeneraIs' defense.

Pearson will also be impor-
tant to tlte,def.ense.His-1 1 steals
last yearrmakexhim _a key asset
in the Generals‘ zone.

The Generals will be put to
thetestintrnediatelyastheycom-
pete in the W&L Fall Classic,
which should be an indicator of
what direction this 1992 squad
is headed.

    

Hagge

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

Generals begin season with renewed confidence

Fallon looks to the run—and—gun to revive W&L offense; expe

By SEAN O'RoURiu2
Phi Sports Editor
If you can meet with triumph and

disaster, And treat those two impostors
just the same.

 
   

__uIfs9

This phrase from Rudyard Kipling’s
classic poem greets every tennis player
as they leave the locker room to enter
the famed Centre Court at Wimbledon.

I don’t think Washington and Lee
head football coach Gary Fallon has
ever made that awesome trek, but he
has incorporated Kipling’s thoughts
into his motto for the 1992 season.

“Early on I brought in the 1-9 record
to show we had a lot of work in front of
us,” said Fallon. “You can leam a great
deal from history and past experiences.
Now I’m easing away from it. You
can’t dwell on it, you have to block it
out and get on the positive side.”

The 1-9 record Fallon is referring to
was the ﬁnal result of a tough 1991
campaign. After ﬁnishing the previous
two seasons at .500, the Generals were
looking at last year as a rebuilding
period. This year Fallon says he ex-
pects better results.

‘‘If we took theﬁeld rightnow,we’d
do much better than we did last year,”
said Fallon. “We have veterans at left
tackle, left guard, center and right guard.
Left tackle is the only spot we have to
ﬁll.

“We also have two tight ends back,
the same running backs and experi-
enced wide receivers. Our quarterback
also has some seasoning.” ,

One of the big problems the Gener-
als encountered last year was lack of
possession time. Their offense had
trouble staying on the ﬁeld long enough

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Senlor trl-captain Lyle Smith prepares to put a hurtln' on freshman
Jay Mccardell. Smith will need to be at the top of his game for
Saturday's tllt with Emory & Henry. The Generals are 0-7 against the
Wasps in the last seven opening-day games.

Women’s soccer opens with depleted squad ,

Catch the Generals

We Sell the Best Seat: In the House
. DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
I MONSTER OPTONICA
5 KEF cwo
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
G   G I p I I E I I - SPEAKERTRADEUPPROGRAM
S t t 1 . 3 0 KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

And then read about it in the Phi.

By SEAN O'RoURKE
Phi Sports Editor

Athletic coaches dread graduation. It usually means that they
lose their most experienced, and in a majority of the cases, their
best players. That is the situation facing Washington and Lee
women’s soccer coach Janine Hathom..

Hathom lost seven girls to graduation, including the 1991
ODAC Player of Year, defender Nancy Mitchell.

Hathom realizes that those players cannot be replaced, but she
feels this team could be successful as long as they believe in
themselves.

“Some of the girls do not have as much confidence in them-

well.”

Susan Moseley. Moseley is a three-year letterwinner, an
two goals and two assists in 1991. Moseley will be calle
be the leader on the ﬁeld.

feels it’s an important job.”
make big contributions.

Carrington had four goals in 1991 and led the team
with three. Stimeling solidiﬁed the Generals defense wi

qucliotronics'

‘ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

' CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

" MASTER CARD I VISA / DISCOVER

 
   

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS
Let us help you get organized with
Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

1" PHONE: 463 - 1712

15 W. NELSON ST. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

‘with it I might switch to something

selves as I have in them,” said Hathom. “I believe we can do very

Hathom has a lot of confidence in the lone senior, tri-captain

“It’s going to be her (Moseley) play somewhat. It’s just her
nature and character,” said Hathom. “She’s taking it seriously and

Juniors Angie Carrington and Kate Stimeling will also have to

 

Next Week:
Water Polo- EWPA at Princeton 9/19
M Soccer- at Johns Hopkins 9/ 19
I W Soccer- Hollins 9/18
Volleybal1- W&L Invit. 9/ 18-19

A

SEPTEMBER 10, 1592

   
   
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
     
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
    
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
  
     
  

rienced secondary improving play ‘

to give their defense time to rest. The
offense handled the ball for an average
of 25 minutes per game. Fallon be-
lieves the new rim-and-gun offense,
W&L’s version of the nm-and-shoot,
if executed properly, could be the an-
swer.

“We don’t have a big tailback to
grind it out, but we have a good set of
receivers and a quarterback to get the
ball to them. They should keep us on
the ﬁeld if we execute. Execution is the
big part of this offense.”

However, don’t be surprised if
Fallon decides to switch back to their
old I-forrnation offense. He does not
believe this offense will be used exclu-
sively.

“The nm-and- gun is not set in stone,”
said Fallon. “If we’re having problems

offense like they had to last season.

“We have good linebackers and .
good group of defensive linemen. Las
year we asked the defense to buy time
for our green offense. We’re ho in 3
we don’t have to do that this yeaﬁ)”

The defensive line and th
linebackin g corps make up the stren gt .
of the unit. Spears is a mainstay a
defensive tackle, along with fellow
senior Thomas May and sophomor
Jason Chartrand. Smith anchors th
defense from his linebacker posﬂion
He’s joined there by sophomore Jame ~
Maberry.

The defensive backﬁeld was a sor‘
spot during parts of last year. Junior
Bill Harker and sophomore Jon Wagne
seem to be the leaders at the comerbac s
spot this year, while sophomores Marc
Newman and Stephen Cox should .-
more experienced at their safety posi
tions.

One ﬁnal area where the General
may have an edge is in the number
department. The Generals nearly
doubled in size with a large inﬂm o
freshmen. Fallon says this will mean
there will be some inexperienced play-
ers on the field at times, but that it
doesn’t diminish his expectations of
them.

“We need them to mature in ahurry,”
said Fallon. “They’ll probably make
more mistakes because of their green-
ness and inexperience. But, they have
to get the job done.”

Fallon said it’s like going into battle.
Once that ﬁrst shot is ﬁred the ne .
guys are no longer new.

With the season-opener only ﬁe
days away, the Generals seem ready to
avenge that 1-9 record. It won't be
easy. Then again, if it was easy, there
would be no need for “If.”

else. But if we’re doing O.K., I don’t
want to change anything.”

The four-receiver offense worked
well for the Generals in their last game
of 1991. W&L handled the Georgetown
Hoyas, 27-12. Geren Steiner was the
triggerrnan for the Generals against the
Hoyas and he will be called upon again
to run the offense, as will the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference’s lead-
ing receiver, William Propst. One of
the tri-captains, tight end Josh
Levinson, will have to show senior
leadership on the ﬁeld.

The Generals defense looks to be a
solid unit again this year. The two
remaining tri-captains are on the de-
fensive side of the ball, seniors -Phil
Spears and Lyle Smith. Both will play
an important part in protecting the
Generals end zone.

Even though this unit is good, Fallon
does not believe the defense will be
asked to buy time for an inexperienced

play in goal. She recorded a school -record nine shutouts, and posted
a 0.88 goals against average.

Hathom says that the defense will need the most work this year .
She says their lack of playing together will be the sticking point.

“The defensive end will need the most work, not because they’r
really inexperienced, but they just haven’t played together,” said
Hathom. ‘

The questions will be answered quickly as the team travels east
to challenge Virginia Wesleyan on Saturday. A strong showin;
could give this team a lot of conﬁdence, exactly what Hathom is

(1 she had
d upon to

looking for.
in assists “I have a lot of conﬁdence in them. I believe they’re going to win
th superb and play well.” '

  
   
      

1 ‘/2 miles out Rt. 60 East
4 Bedrooms. Available Immediately

   

  

 

  Glrléjigppe

3N.Mm'nSt., I.exingtcn,VA 24450
(703) 464-8888

 

 

’Cause if it ain’t in the Phi, it might as c<3°?g’f6§::6f°:‘ , go
,  Tnanglewocz Mall I (/36 00%
Well not Ve happened.  -‘G Taylor: a Ellesmd
631 Waddell Street - Lexington, VA - 453-5004
25% Discount on carry out purchase
KQPPQQOQQO, with this coupon l\
' Full service & carry out catering .
Welcome Back! s;;_- 
. FAX #: 463 - 6918 Lﬁjl 23 N_ Main St.’ Lexington step E
Open Mon.-Sat. 10-5:30 ‘ $2.1" ’
REPRODUCTION JEWELRY . 4 .  .
ft htIt~;BBItIttE, (Jun. ,
C0170” THROWS 102 W. Washington St. ’
TAPESTRIES Welcome Back Students !
PORCELAIN -Duckhead -Red Wing Boots . 1
.-Chamois Shirts -Ray-Bans p
CANDLES -Dirty Bucs & Chocolate Bucs -W&L Belts, 'I‘ies, Dog Collars,
Visors & Keychains '
LACE ‘
CRYSTAL
’lOILETRIES .
_10%  1N. MainSt., Lexington, VA 24450 463-5383 ,
With This Ad (703) 464-8888 VISA, MasterCard, Student Charge ,

 

