lit ‘Bing-tum Iﬂlti

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

9vA1§49§o

AN ART1sT’s FAMILY ALBUM

Local

h

otographer

captures t e raw innocence
of childhood

VOLUME 92, NO. 16

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee Mon-
day scheduled a private March meet-
ing to discuss White Book revisions,
contradicting Student Body Constitu-

sl tion rules for closed EC meetings.

In article V, section P, the constitu-
tion states “the Executive Committee
will not go into executive session ex-
cept in the case of possible honor vio-
lations.”

But EC President Josh MacFarland

Q said the planned March 13 meeting at

Skylark, a university—owned confer-
ence center, will be about the Honor

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

System and White Book revisions, not
about honor violations.

“I don’t mean [the meeting] to be a
confidential, executive-session type
thing,” MacFarland said. “It is just a
retreat. Whatever we come up with
will be presented in an open meeting.”

MacFarland said only EC members
may attend the meeting.

One reason for going to Skylark to
discuss EC business is so members can
feel free to discuss anything they wish
without feeling restrained by the pres-
ence of non-committee members,
MacFarland said.

Professor of Journalism Harnpden
H. Smith, who teaches state and local
government, said an executive sessions

are easy to identify. ~

“If they prohibit you from going,
it’s an executive session,” Smith said.
“If they let you go, they can meet
anywhere they like.”

Third-year law EC Rep. Jay Sterne
said he believes the Skylark meeting is
important so the EC can discuss the
honor issues in-depth.

Sterne said that the EC might have
to refer to specific cases in order to
make points during the discussion.

Sterne said he does not believe the
EC is acting unconstitutionally.

“It could be construed [as a viola-
tion of the constitution] if you view the
constitution very narrowly,” Sterne
said. ‘_‘If this were the only discussion

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

this year [about the Honor System revi-
sions], I would feel uncomfortable with
it, but it’s not. This is just the first step.”

EC Secretary Bob Tompkins said

‘ he also wants to discuss specific closed

hearings while at Skylark.

“I would like to discuss things that
come up in closed trials,” Tompkins
said. “I think they serve as good ex-
amples of what might be a potential
problem with the system. You would
lose the full effect of what is trying to
be communicated [if you could not
discuss closed hearings in detail].”

But senior EC Rep. Susan Moseley
said she believes anyone could hear the
Skylark discussions.

lark, we could say in public,” Moseley
said. “I could find that I’m wrong once
we’re there.”

Moseley said the honor issues de-
serve a full day of discussion and that a
retreat would give EC members a
chance to get to know each other better.

MacFarland originally planned to
have the EC discuss a list of Honor
System issues, which was given to him
by Washington and Lee Rector A.
Stevens Miles, at the end of the EC’s
weekly meetings.

But several EC members were un-
happy with the time—consuming pro-
cess and wondered why the EC was
discussing issues if they had no plans
of putting their discussions on'paper.

JANUARY 28, 1995

‘EC to case White Book debate

“We’re just spinning our wheels if
we don’t do something,” sophomore
EC Rep. Robert Stewart said.

MacFarland said the EC would take
notes on the Skylark discussion, com-
pile the most common opinions and
save them for next year’s White Book
review committee.

He said an open meeting after the
Skylark retreat will give the student
body a chance to comment on Honor
System issues.

Stewart said it would not matter if
the meeting at Skylark were open.

“I suppose Josh could put up ﬂyers
saying ‘everyone come to Skylark,’
but I don’t think anyone would come,”
Stewart said.

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi

Peyton Turner, Jennifer Galardi, Courtney Tucker and Ashley Bell grimace to House of Pain’s “Jump Around” at
‘Lip Synch Saturday. All four women are Kappa Alpha Theta pledges.

Students crash Lip Synch

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS

. Phi Staff Writer

Despite at least 40 students sneaking into
Friday’s Lip Synch at the Pavilion without
paying, the event raised $4,300 for Multiple
Sclerosis and RARO, $300 more than orga-

Qtizers hoped for. '
“We’re really happy about the [way Lip
« Synch went],” said Ashley Myler, one of Lip
Synch’s organizers. “We were just bummed
[that people snuck in]. It was a charity.”

Myler and Elise Hagensen told the Execu-

tive Committe Monday there was an absence
of “honorable behavior” from some students
at the Lip Synch. ‘

Lip Synch advisor Gerald Darrell said the
difference this year was ineffective student
security at the back and side doors. Darrell
guessed 40 to 60 people did not pay for the
event.

“People always try to get in without pay-
ing,” Darrell said. “I think it’s a real problem
with student conduct.”

EC President Josh MacFarland said he is
surprised at the behavior of some students.

“The Honor System applies beyond the
Hill and everyone should know that,”
MacFarland said. “The [behavior at Lip
Synch] was inexcusable anywhere, not just
at W&L.”

Myler said that if everyone at Lip Synch
had paid, the event could have made about

$5000. Myler said the price of admission was
$4 until 11:30 p.m., when the price dropped
to $2.

Hagensen said several students refused to
pay even the reduced price.

The Minority Student Association, per-
forming Sir Mix-a-lot’s “Baby Got Back,”
topped the field of 25 acts Friday to win.

A group of Sigma Phi Epsilon members,
“The SPE Gees,” took second with disco
standard “Stayin’ Alive.”

Kappa Alpha Theta placed third with
“Elvira,” by the Oak Ridge Boys.

Darrell said last year’s Lip Synch raised
$3,650. He said Lip Synch began eight years
ago in the‘Generals Headquarters with ﬁve
acts. It raised about $400.

By ANDREA Cobain ‘V
‘_  .v Phi Contributing Writer

Washington and Lee swim- . has.’ I
mers swam their toughest meet
of the year Saturday.

-Their opponent was a stack
of bills.
I Beginning with the last re-

. lay race of their meet, the men’s

: ‘and’ women’s swim teamsii

» swam for 24 hours to raise '
money for Susan Elkins, aLex-

. , ington woman who is taking
care of her dying two-year-old
daughter.

Kristen Elkins is deaf, blind,
has a sixth ﬁnger on each hand
and is microcephalic, which
means she has an abnomially
small head. ‘

“This child, who has only
‘lived two years, has reallymade
a difference,” Washington and

needed.

  __ , isnwiirh. ’i§oachii._~P_ i_.
 _.Remillard ;said“";,‘.‘Sornebody;=' ‘ .
-  who lives a ‘1if¢tiﬁ1¢ n1ight.1m>1t
touchas‘rnar1y‘peopleasKif'isteny
llard said Wednesday

that the swim-a-‘thou reached
its ‘$5,000 goal, but more is‘

‘ Remi

“It went very well,”
, Remillard said- “T,here* were
::i‘c'h‘e'r:ks’::. _ ‘ j j
Rockbridge County; But‘ there
isdeﬁnitely a continued need.”
The money the teams raised
willhelppaythebillstlratlfllkirls
has incurred over the pa‘st}sev-
eral months, as well as bil
still to come. ’
“I didn't want to’ see Susan
opening up bills,” “Remillard
said. “I knew there would be
sympathy cards. That’s all I
want her to open."
Elkins’ husband left her

eight times aday.

from " ll 2 ever!

take a shower?”

rial Baptist Church.

-soon afte_rJKristen born.
‘ , I i __.gp°ast two years,
Elkinsﬁcame home after teach-
ing all dayto replace the full-
-time babysitter who ,t0,0I<.care
‘ of 'Kr’istenv:dt4ring the day.-.
‘fBut,_takin’g_'care of Kristen
wasa full-time‘ job in ‘itself.
‘ Because of ‘her condition,
—Kristen..often vomited.,.six* to
-“Susan woke up at"2"a.m. to
cleanher baby. [and then] at 5
a.m., to clean her baby,”
Remillard said. “She [was]
paranoid to take a shower. Can
you imagine being scared. to

Remillard said he first be-
came, aware of Elkins’ situa-
tion in December at a Sunday
School class at Manly Memo-

D See SWIM, page 8

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

On Wednesday, Jan. 20,
Washington and Lee junior and
Arkansas native Trevor Norris
crowded among thousands of
onlookers and stared as Bill

’ Clinton became the 42nd Presi-
dent of the United States.

But watching his former gov-

’ emor be sworn in on the Capitol
steps was something Norris had
to see to believe.

“I was really proud of him,”
Norris said. “I was just glad he
kept [his speech] short, so people
wouldn't start making fun of him
before [his term] even got
started.”

Norris got tickets to the inau-
gural ceremony from his father,
who has worked with Clinton for
the past 12 years. But he was not
the only W&L student who found
a way to witness the event.

Sophomore Cameron
Huddleston said that even though
she never saw Clinton face-to-
face, listening to his speech

“Anything we would say at Sky-

IFC proposes
new Flush plan

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

The IFC has come up with a
tentative, new structure for next
year’s Rush, but the faculty will
have the final decision.

The Interfratemity Council
Friday presented its preliminary
proposal to the Student Affairs
Committee. The proposal in-
cludes an open contact period
prior to Rush, fewer Rush dates
and more severe penalties for
Rush violations than in the past,
IFC Vice President Tom
Washmon said.

But Dean of Students David
Howison said Wednesday that
the IFC proposal is onlya recom-
mendation to SAC.

Howison said SAC will con-
sider the IFC proposal, then cre-
ate afonnal proposal, which must
be approved by the faculty.

“I absolutely believe there is
an overall agreement that changes
are necessary,” Howison said.

But, he said, “the discussions

are much broader than just when
Rush will be held.”

In the past, freshmen were
underclosed
contactrules
as soon as
they got to.

 carnpus.The

IFC pro-
posal re-
leased Tues-
day would
allow open
contact dur-
ing fresh-
man orienta-
tion throughout the first week of
classes.

Rush sign-ups would be on a
Sunday, 10 days after classes be-
gin. On Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday, freshmen would at-
tend nine 45-minute open house
periods, Washmon announced at
Tuesday's IFC meeting.

The following weekend
would be an enforced closed con-
tact period under the proposal.
Fraternities would be allowed to
hold parties, but rushing fresh-

Washmon

men would not be allowed to
attend, Washmon said.

He said freshmen found vio-
lating this rule would lose their
rushing privileges.

Punishments for Rush viola-
tions by fraternities have not yet
been proposed, but are expected
to be severe, Washmon said. An‘
earlier proposal set a fine of
$2,000 for fraternities who take
freshmen out of Rockbridge
County prior to or during Rush.

The Monday and Tuesday of
the second week of Rush would
include four Rush dates, two less
than in previous years.

Wednesday would be closed
contact and bids would be ex-
tended on Thursday, Washmon
said.

Freshmen would accept their
bids Friday.

“This is just a discussion
within the Rush Committee,”
Washmon said of the plan. “By
no means is it set in stone.”

Tonight, the committee will
further discuss the penalties, rules
and open contact guidelines.

SAB makes profit fall term

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

The Student Activities Board
made aprofit of $3,000 fall term,
which organizers chalk up to
good publicity.

“We had really successful
ticket sales for Homecoming and
the Spin Doctors,” SAB Chair-
man Robyn McCord said.

“We did a lot of publicity out
in the public and at neighboring
schools," McCord said. “We had

among the energized crowd was
something she will always re-
member.

“When he was giving his
speech, everyone around was so
excited,” Huddleston said.

“There were a lot of young people .

around, and in his speech he re-
ally reﬂected on how much he
had needed the help of the young
[to get elected].”

Junior Binky Parkins said the
excitement of the day trans-
formed a normally scary city into
a fun one.

“With as many people as there
were in town, you’d expect
people to be pushing and shov-
ing,” Parkins said. “But people

were even giving up their seats

on the Metro.”

Though not all the W&L stu-
dents went to the inauguration as
Clinton supporters, most came
away with a good impression of
the new President.

“Just being [at the inaugura-
tion] was enough to make any-
one who was iffy [about Clinton]
aconvert,” senior Allison Ausley
said.

a lot of people from [the Univer-
sity of Virginia] at the Spin Doc-
tors.”

McCord said beer helped, too.

“We made the beer garden a
permanent fixture at all the con-
certs,” McCord said. “That way
people knew it would ‘be there.”

McCord said the profit re-
sulted from a strategy of concen-
trating on concerts, and keeping
movies in the Troubador The-
atre and Wednesday activities in
the‘Generals Headquarters on a
shoestring budget.

“We never make money on
[moviesandPitevents],”McCord
said. “They’re' designed to pro-
vide entertainment for the stu-
dent body, not to make a profit.”

McCord said that, because of
the budget surplus, the SAB is
looking into sponsoring more
events during the rest of the year.

“We’re still looking for a big
event for the Thursday of [Fancy
Dress],” McCord said. “Then
we’ll probably have a jazz con-
cert later in winter term, with
Lyle Lovett or someone like that.”

Students revel in Clinton festivities

Sophomore Todd Cloaninger took this picture from his
vantage point of Wednesday's inauguration. He said his
spot was “pretty good, compared to a lot of people."

PAGE 2

 

 

Ellie Zaing-tum lﬂlii

Founded September 18, 1897

Nothing happens
for the first time

The striking resemblance of this week’s lead headline to the
Phi lead of May 10, 1990 —— “Report: EC breaks constitution”
— is an evidence of the journalistic principle, “Nothing ever
happens for the ﬁrst time.”

In a knockdown-dragout debate destined for a place in EC
history, law student and Constitutional Revisions Committee
member Walter Scott told EC Rep. Mark Cobb in 1990 that
Cobb had “voted against the constitution” when the EC closed
its doors for a Fancy Dress budget hearing. ,

It was with considerably less tension in the air that EC
members Monday finalized their plans for a closed meeting at
Skylark where they will talk about the Honor System.

It’s too bad there wasn’t a Walter Scott at Monday’s meeting.
He probably would have bitten EC President Josh MacFarland’s
leg and refused to let go until the EC canceled its plans.

EC President Josh MacFarland says he wants the EC to gather
at Skylark to talk about the Honor System in private so that
members will feel free to scream and yell at each other. Maybe
they’ll even use those rods with foam pads on the ends to beat
each other.

All in all, it might not be such a bad idea, in terms of stress
relief. The only problem with the plan is that it’s unconstitu-
tional.

The writers of the Student Body Constitution very wisely
mandated that the EC would enter executive session only in the
case of a possible honor violation. Unfortunately, they did not
deﬁne executive session, and the EC, at least since 1990, has
pretty much disregarded the constitution and made up its own
rules for when they may meet privately. In 1990, they called
these “closed-door meetings.” Tlley’re calling this one a “re-
treat.”

Executive session by any other narne.... The term indisput-
ably refers to any closed-door meeting of the committee. They
may meet at Skylark, but any student who wants to go must be
allowed to do so. MacFarland need not recognize any students
in attendance to speak, but students must be allowed to observe.

It might be a good idea for EC members to yell and spit at each
other some to get out their frustrations. That sort of technique is
psychologically helpful for any group of people who have to
work together. It’s cathartic. Fraternities have retreats. Families
have retreats. Religious groups have retreats. But the EC is
fundamentally different than all of these groups. The EC is a
body of elected officials. The EC is accountable to the student
body. ‘

The lack of EC accountability in a private meeting is even
more alarming considering the subject matter. The EC will be
privately discussing the Honor System. On Nov. 12, 1992, we
said in this very column, “The future of the Honor System
should never be discussed behind doors closed to all students.”
Then we were worried that the Board of Trustees might discuss
the Honor System in private. MacFarland assured us that the EC
would not condone such an act. Now the EC is planning to do
just that.

Sophomore EC Rep. Robert Stewart said he would not expect
many students to show up to the meeting if it were open. That
is our worst fear. At the end of the day, a government may only
escape accountability if its constituency allows it to escape. In
the interests of preserving representative student government
and encouraging free and open discussion of the Honor System,
we urge students to contact the EC and express their support for
opening the Skylark meeting to community scrutiny.

— CL, RP, GP, NM

OPINION

    
 

O

The Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

tiotlsisvls Gt-rs‘-tori},
cHAK1‘2.Eo5E wimp
1 Page-:<‘:r Fog ri-re: New Mralmzy "

Nice‘

0

we ’I'Hlt~7}¢ A
81:‘

UHIFORMS.

Injuries sting less when dealt at once

WASHINGTON —- Bill Clinton’s
presidential debut hasbeen farshrewder
than his critics would admit. If you

why he is President and his millions of
conventionally-wise critics are not.
The reasons for acting now are, in

have to do fact,eas-
something un- ily dis-
popular,hisbe- ' c e r n -
hmormhes, CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS me,
better to do it Tribune Media Services 1-
quick. . Clinton
The. side- said he
walk superin- would.

tendent argues otherwise, of course.
He says that the freshly-niinted Chief
Executive should cool it on his com-
mitrnenttoend the ban on letting openly
homosexual people serve in the mili-
tary. Instead, the argument goes,
Clinton should dump his reform pro-
posal unto a“commission,” some blue-
ribbon burial ground from which it
would never be exhumed.

Purveyors of conventional wisdom
would have the new President conduct
a similar interment of any deficit-cut-
ting plans. Instead of letting Treasury
Secretary Lloyd Bentsen trial-balloon
new consumer or energy taxes, Clinton
should put off any such talk ’til long
after the recovery is underway; next
year at the earliest.

In moving full steam ahead on both
fronts — allowing gays in the service
and moving early toward genuine deﬁ-
cit reduction —— Clinton is showing

His campaign promised to cut the
federal deficit by half during his first
term of office. Clinton’s inaugural
address underlined the commitment,
speaking often of “sacrifice" and end-
ing the “bad habit of expecting some-
thing for nothing.”

As long as the U.S. government
continues paying a huge chunk of its
annual expenses by selling U.S. prom-
issory notes on the world market, it
slips ever closer to becoming a Wash-
ington D.C. check-clearin g house, with
tax checks coming in one door, T-bond
interest payments going out the other.
The longer Bill Clinton puts off doing
something, the harder it becomes.
Congress is not about to enact a tax
hike in 1994, an election year for Capi-
tol Hill. A President seeking re-elec-
tion himself is unlikely to push for or
sign one anytime thereafter.

Bottom line: If Clinton needs to do

it, he needs to do it now.

The same is true on Clinton’s prom-
ise regarding gays in military service.
Having made the promise, he has no
choice but to keep it. Waiting ’til later
will make that challenge all the harder.
Those who counsel delay or reconsid-
eration are, in effect, counseling inac-
tion. They know it. So does Clinton.

2. Loyalty.

Come next election, Clinton will
need the support
of those on the

better that he tried his first presidential
term and promises to try again in a
second.
3. History. ‘F
Experience teaches that it’s better
for presidents to take tough stands early,
perform the crowd-pleasers later.
Jimmy Carter, the last Democrat to
sit at the big desk in the Oval Office,
delayed biting the bullet on double-
digit inﬂation until his last year i!
office.
Only when he

activistwing of A  _ faced the touchy
hlscoalitlon who s Machiavelli wrote electorateml9S0d1d
worked thehard- five centuries ago, ¢cIn_ he call for politically
est for his elec- . . . necessary cuts in the
tion. Far better Jurles Should be In‘ federal deficit. 0
thathe _ntr1eet htis flicted all at once, for gig nlciistzilse. ll,
commi men s I s ac lave 1
the less they are tasted -
now than on the 9 wrote five centuries
eve of the next the less the offend ’ ago,“Injuriesshould
presidential elec ’ b ' fl‘ t d 11 t
- ° e in lc e a a
tion. atime when ggllgrgﬁfeegitls, tﬁleoulgd once, for the less they
he will be ac- 1 y are tasted, the less’
tively seeking ﬁtﬂe Sothat they might they offend, while
f_upp<1>rtfrompo- be better enjoyed ,, beIlefl(I1S1I:.i’10gll(f' tie
ltica centrlsts, ' grante it e y ltte
manyof whom sothattheymightbe
hold strongly tra- better enjoyed.”

ditional views on matters of sexual
orientation.

Even if Clinton fails in the fight to
end the ban on gays in the military, far

1993 American translation: Mr.
Clinton is right to take the tough steps
now.

©1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Gllil: ﬂing-tum iﬂlit

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plununer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cunent court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Republicantide sweeps rising South

COLUMBIA, S.C. — This state, the first to
secede, seems vehement about its long memories of
evergreen grievances. The capitol — yes, the build-
ing — is decorated for its war wounds: Brass stars
mark spots where Sherrnan’s artillery pitted the
walls. A plaque on a statue of George Washington
holding a cane offers this austere explarlation: “Dur-

sional seats. Republicans made a net gain of 14
congressional seats in the South, which voted against
the Democrats’ all-Southem ticket. South Carolina
gave.Bush 48 percent, his second-best total (second
to Mississippi’s 49.7).

Arkansas gave Clinton his only Southern major-
ity. Clinton carried Georgia, but only by 16,000

ing the occupation of Co- votes,and three weeks
lumbia by Sherman's later in a runoff
Army, soldiersbrickbatted Democrats lostaSen-
this statue and broke off GEORGE WILL ate seatthere.Repub-
the lower artof the walk- , _ licans gained state
ing cane}? Washington Post Writers Group legislative seats and

But for all this back- local offices across
ward looking, no statehas the South. Campbell
changed more than South said two-thirds of

Carolina in 20 years. And inside the capitol sits a
governor who is both an effect and a cause of some
of the change.

Carroll Campbell, 52, was a Republican con-
gressman for eight years, including 1981, the golden
Year One in Republican remembrance. He helped
forge alliances with conservative “boll weevil”Demo-
crats, passing Reagan's tax cuts and getting a tanta-
lizing taste of power. But futility is the norm for
House Republicans, so he ran for governor. By virtue
of educational and other reforms he has become,
according to Michael Barone of The Almanac of
American Politics, “an exemplar of governing con-
servatism for the nation."

In 1973 South Carolina’s anemic economy de-
pended disproportionately on military bases pro-
duced by congressional seniority, and on low-wage
textile plants.Today BMW's $600 million planthere
joins international investments by Fuji (film), Mita
(office equipment), Hitachi (television tubes), Nan
Ya (industrial chemicals), Hoffman-LaRoche (phar-
maceuticals) and others.

V In a state once notoriously cross about the con-
striction of states’ rights, Campbell practices cre-
ative federalism, competing with other states to
produce an alluring business climate. Such competi-
tion is one reason why the South is growing. And, ‘
Campbell says contentedly, the South is growing
steadily more Republican.

Campbell insists that Republicans nationally “lost
the presidency but won the election.” The Democrats
were held even in the Senate and lost 10 congres-

Perot’s Southern supporters voted Republican down
the ballot.

Of Clinton, Campbell says, “If he becomes a
Democrat, he’s in trouble.” By “becoming a Demo-
crat” Campbell means, primarily, making tax in-
creases the .

advanced its transformation from the party of Grove?
Cleveland's passive government to Woodrow
Wilson’s activism. In 1964 Barry Goldwater pro- 4
duced a constructive defeat, making the GOP a
fighting force for conservatism.

Campbell, who in August becomes chairman of
the National Governors’ Conference, believes the
ideas that energized the Republican revival undef
Reagan — low taxes,jan emphasis on economic
growth—sti1lcommandamajority,and,il;deed,that
this majority is still growing. Conceivably, Campbell

‘might seek to capture that flag as the Republican

nominee in 1996, his other options being blocked.
He must leave the govemorship in 1994. Demo-
cratic Sen. Fritz Hollings was just re-elected as Soutl9
Carolina’s junior senator — junior although in his’
27th year in the Senate. Republican Strom Thurmond,
elected in 1954, will be only 94 in 1996 and may run
again so he can celebrate his 100th birthday in the 1
Senate gym. a
Campbell directs a departing visitor’s attention to
an office por'

administration's trait of John C.
“Iain ‘.°P‘° °f What makes Republicans melancholy is not .Ca“?°““»l°°“‘
discussion. Al-V . lng -so fierce
ready mm is that they lost the presidency, but rather that the pomai,
ample evidence their 1992 campaign was so sterile. Not all painter must
that Democrats - W-ll- - B have said '
mmpam in defeats are sterile. . 1 ram Jennings ryan Somemingdis,
Clinton’sWaSh- took the Democratic Party down to defeat respectful
if’1‘1%“’C"aI‘$,l)ef1‘l‘.1; three times, but in the process he advanced its fiiggfs‘ SW65’ .
expectation; transformation from the party of Grover A ,1 d
‘"“*eY will Seek ~ Cleveland ’s passive government to Woodrow Campbell Says
first to tax, and W] , t. . he has hung in ‘
tofundtlieircon- 1 Son S ac 'v‘Sm° the govemor’s!
stituencies.” mansion a pic-
The middle- tureof Andrew

class tax cut is a receding chimera. The rising tide of
talk about “a broad-based energy tax” and consump-
tion taxes makes this the pertinent question: How
large will be the increased tax burden — however
indirect and disguised —— on the middle class?
What makes Republicans melancholy is not that

they lost the presidency, but rather that their 1992

campaign was so sterile. Not all defeats are sterile.
William Jennings Bryan took the Democratic Party
down to defeat three times, but in the process he

Jackson — the most truculent president — now that ' v_

it has been determined that Jackson’s birthplace was,
at the time, on the South Carolina side of the border
(subsequently adjusted southward) with North Caro-
lina. I C
Calhoun, Jackson. Working beneath the baleful
stare of two such pairs of piercing eyes, it would be

odd if Campbell did not occasionally raise his eyes -

toward national prizes.
© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

LETTERS

Hill attitude to ward fraternities sparks frustration

To the Editor:

A lot of things have changed since I
ennolledatWashingtonandLee in 1989.
While I can accept the loss of Lloyd's
and the transformation of Lee-Hi into
Berky’s (with a bitter smile), I cannot
believe the change that has taken place
in the attitude toward fraternities. It
troubles me so much that I feel com-
pelled to write my first letter to the
editor, in defense of a system ranked
first in the nation by the Princeton
Review, a system which is integral to
the life of the campus. Your article
“Record 22 Depledge” (Jan. 21, 1993)
has forced me to respond to some mis-
conceptions about our system.

The most glaring problem with the

Hill’s attitude becomes apparent mid-
way through the article. You report:
“Dean of Students David Howison said

fraternities should consider lowering
their fees to allow more students to
join.” Now Idon’t know exactly what
Dean Howison said, but I expect that
this is a fairly common attitude on the
Hill. While Dean Howison is correct
that fraternity fees have increased dra-
matically over the past couple of years,
it is wrong to blame this on the frater-
nities. The university hasdrastically
increased the cost of our membership.
First, the university requires us to pay
our house mothers, even though they
are not our employees and we have no
control over them. They are university

employees, hidden behind the guise of
our house corporations. Our house cor-
porations hire and pay them (using our
money), but they are directed by the
Hill. If the Hill would just admit that
they are indeed university employees
and pay them like other staff, it would
reduce our costs by more than $10,000.
Second, the Hill has raised our room
rent to match university housing. When
we set our own rent, it was around half
of what it is today. And the Hill raises
that cost each year. Third, and most
important, the Hill has imposed the
“Greek Tax,” arguably the most bla-
tant taxation without representation
since the Stamp Acts (unless you count
the Lexington CarTax). This adds four

hundred dollars to each member’s bills
every year. When the fraternities signed

, over our leases in order to pass through

Fraternity Renaissance, we assumed
that ownership of the houses would
adequately compensate the university
for raising money to pick up renova-
tion costs. Then we were blindsided by
this tax on our associations. Not even
the Communist Party has to payatax in‘
order to enjoy their right to freedom of
associations. In sum, the fraternities
have not increased our “fees”; the Hill
has increased them for us. ,

I am also disturbed by the allegation

that the increase in depledging is “the
' O

C] see FRATERNITIES, page 3 .

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1993

PAGE 3

Spos plots havoc with help of E-mail

$05’ SPACE
' By Tom Hespos

“At every level of business, there-
fore — at the level of global.standards
for television and telecommunica-
tions... at the level of the retailer’s
cﬂeckout counter... at the level of the
automatic teller machine and the credit
card... at the level of extra-intelligent

i electronic networks... at the level of

competitive intelligence and counter-
intelligence —— we are surrounded by
info-war and info-warriors fighting to
c&1trol the most crucial resource of the
Powershif t Era."
-Alvin Toffler, Powershift
The resource Tofﬂer refers to is
knowledge, of course. The very nature
of power as we know it in our society is
changingrightbefore our eyes. Knowl-
elﬂge is the new commodity upon which
our society is based. Although Tofﬂer
is 100 percent correct, I can still re-
member that weekend when I had to
write a paper on his stupid book for
Professor Lowry instead of doing more
productive things, like drinking beer.
' Although Spos still regrets spend-
ing an entire weekend sans, beer, he
would like to thank Professor Lowry
for molding his view of new technol-
ogy. Data breeds information and in-
formation breeds knowledge. What
better tool is there in today’s world that
CO1 better help one distill data into
knowledge than a computer?
That’s why Spos kept an open mind
when this newfangled electronic mail
system (commonly referred. to as

“E-Mail”) hit campus. Computer Sci-
ence majors spouted its merits to the
student body. They said it represented
the future of communication. They
said it was a great new way to talk to
friends. They said it would cure the
AIDS virus. Actually, no. They didn’t
say it would cure AIDS. However,
they said that it did the next best thing:
It allowed you to talk to people at other
schools for FREE.

Having spent over 48 bucks on a
single phone call to Sweet Briar during
freshman year, Spos
quickly saw the ad-
vantage of becom-
ing knowledgeable

Spos’ first step to-
ward losing his E-Mail

from place to place within the commu-
nications network. Such playful ex-
ploration is strongly discouraged, as it
could potentially cause overseas banks
to fail. (At this point, Spos would like
to accept full responsibility for recent
fluctuations in value of certain stocks
of the NYSE. I really didn’t mean it—
I swear.)

In mere minutes, Spos was able to
learn the procedure for sending amo-
rous letters to his girlfriend at Sweet
Briar. This quickly evolved into send-
ing electronic
threat messages to
certain members
of the W&L fac-

in the ways of , , , ulty warning
i3-Mai1_ virginity was to open against giving
3905’ ﬁrst Step that envelopethat they Sposanythmgless
toward losing his , . 1 thanan“A.”
E-Mail virginity g_aVe 0|“ at mamcu 3' This, in turn,
wasto openthaten- t10n,Youknow, the one quickly evolved
velope that they - into sending por-
gaveoutatmatricu- that most falthful nographic mes-

lation. You know,
the one that most
faithful Spos’ Space

readers probably

niade a r>=iI_r>erd that eventually ended
p ane outo an t -

eventuallyendedup up In the trash’

Spos’ Space readers
probably made a pa-
per airplane out of and

sages to people all
over the world at
random. As amat-
ter of fact, some-
one in Osaka
should be reading
Spos’ version of

in the trash. Inside
this envelope were
several vital pieces of information that
allowed Spos to log onto the
university’s computer system and start
wreaking international havoc, namely
his Internet address and password.
After logging onto the system, Spos

began exploring the system, hopping"

“No Ifs, No Ands,
Just Butts” right
now.

“How exciting,” I thought to my-
self. “This could be a dangerous
weapon in the hands of a madman like,
say, Saddam Hussein.”

Couldn’t you just picture
newly-inaugurated President Bill

,is:

Clinton participating in an E-Mail con-
versation with Saddam Hussein? It
boggles the mind:

Hussein: “Bill, I will enjoy having
Hillary as my personal concubine after
this Gulf War mess is all over. Next
time, try inhaling. Marijuana is noth-
ing like mustard gas. Trust me. Love,
Saddam."

Clinton: "Saddam, As I sit with my
ﬁnger poised above ’the button,’ I am
at a loss for reasons to preserve your
sorry life. By the way, if] see any more
aircraft in the no-ﬂy zone, I’ ll nuke you
clear into next week. Love, Bill.”

As a matter of public notice only,
and not as an invitation to harrass our
new president, Spos would like to men-
tion that Bill Clinton’s E—Mail address
stoner @ whitehouse.
saxophonegennifer.

If you decide to drop him a line, tell
him that Spos says “Hi” and that he
would really appreciate a cabinet ap-
pointment soon so that he might get out
of the W&L Hell-hole and get into a
position where he might do some real
damage.

In any case, Iurge you, as W&L’s
source of vital information, to famil-
iarize yourselves with this wonderful
new technology. Keep pace with the
ever-changing realm of computers.

It might even net you a substantial
sum of cash in the future. Speaking of
cash, let's access Spos’ account at
Crestar bank and move some decimal
points around. You get my drift?

 

. WLUR

WLUR will broadcast Verdi’s
opera “Un Ballo in Maschera”p (A
Masked Ball) on Saturday, Jan. 30
at 12:30 p.m. At 5 p.m., George
Will’s speech from the Founders’
Day/ ODK ceremony will be broad-
cast on 91.5 FM.

Ski Club

There will be an important ski
club/team meeting tonight at 7 in
Newcomb. Ski trips will be an-
nounced, as will the team schedule.
Questions? Call John at 463-9495.

Admissions Job

The W&L Admissions Ofﬁce is
now accepting applications for an
anticipated admissions counselor
position. All interested graduating
seniors should submit a cover letter
and resume no later than Monday,
March 1 to Associate Director of
Admissions Julia Kozak in the Ad-
missions Ofﬁce.

Calyx

You can still sign up for Calyx
senior pictures. Schedule sheets are
located outside Carol Calkins’ of-
free in the university center. Sign up

El FRATERNITIES, from page 2

result of freshmen who are committing more time to
aifgdemics and questioning the value” of fraternities.
ou quote one freshman as saying: “W&L has risen

. to an academic level that brings in people who are not

prepared for the fraternity system.” The underlying
argument appears to be that fraternities discourage
academics, or impair the ability of students to achieve.
This is simplyuntrue. Extracurriculr activities do not
take away from academics, they add to a student’s
trtfe education. And fraternities are full of good
students. While I haven’t checked the lists to get an
exact count, I know for a fact that many University
Scholars are in fraternities, and there are a number of

Phi Beta Kappa_s_s"yho r:,ome,,fr,orri"’tli,e ranks _of the ‘

various houses. When our pledgesor brotlrerstum in
poor grades, we have brothers help them study for
clgsses. We do this out of a sense of responsibility for
our members. The ability of a freshman to discuss
classes with older fraternity members is invaluable in
helping them adjust to the rigors of W&L academ-
ics. On an anecdotal level, my grades actually in-
creased by half a grade point during winter term my
freshman year, as pledging forced me to budget my
time and focus on academics. ‘

As far as the university bringing in students “who

i are not prepared for the fraternity system,” I would

like to make two observations. First, a student who

, is not able to handle a social life and the responsibili-

ties of pledgeshipis probably not a very well-
rounded student. A good student should be able to get
involved in the life of the campus, including the
fraternity system, and still maintain strong academic
standing. If the University is bringing in students
who are unprepared to handle fraternity life and their
academics, as many students currently do, then we
havenot risen toahigher academiclevel. Instead, we
seem to be sinking. Second, I think that in the last
cmple of years the university has made a serious
error by focusing on “raising the academic level” of
the school. What in the world does that mean? Does
it mean raising our mean SAT score? Getting a larger
number of high school valedictorians? More Na-
tional Merit Scholars? These are the standards of

.h0ld’position,s of academic and exuacurgipular_Ie*ad§~.

LETTERS

“excellence” applied by other schools. While it is
important to attract high caliber students, it is foolish
to measure a student by the numbers. The university
should be looking for men and women of honor and
achievement, people with the character that distin-
guishes W&L from a Cal-Berkeley or a Harvard.
The type of students who can achieve high academic
standards while realizing that there is more to college
and to life than reading a text book.These are the type
of students that join fraternities and sororities, and
who participate in other extracurricular activities
around the campus. A student who is not prepared for
more than studying is not the type of student with
something to contribute to the unique character of
this institution. Fraternity men and sorority women

ership in all aspects ot"'W&I:; life". i ’l?l=ri,s happens
because fraternities are not collectionsof druiikeii‘
dunces. They are collections of individuals who seek.
to excel at life, notjust at school work. Students who
are not prepared to play as hard as they study are not
the type of students who have traditionally flourished
at W&L. Certainly you do not have to be in a
fraternity to add to the university community, but
you do have to participate in extracurricular activi-
ties to truly contribute to the life of this university.
I agree with the argument that hazing is a problem
in some fraternities, and I believe that the IFC should
do more to reduce the existence of physical and
mental abuse that takes place in some houses. How-
ever, “pledge responsibilities” are not all frivolous or
painful. Requiringpledges to gain an intimate knowl-
edge of a fratemity’s history is important to forming
brothers with an appreciation of the nature of their
fraternity and the importance of its history, just as it
is important for W&L students to study the history of
this institution in order to fully appreciate it. Requir-
ingpledges to do clean-ups and to work on improving
the beauty of the houses is not hazing. It forces
pledges to prove their dedication to the organi7ation,
and to develop a sense of responsibility toward the
house and the brotherhood. Pledges who carmot
contribute to the upkeep of the house will probably be
unreliable brothers. Fraternities are about tradition
and responsibility, and pledges must work to prove

-Interviews and Photos
By Darran Winslow

   

that they are ready to carry on the banner of their
chapter. It is unfairto call all pledge activities hazing,
or to regard them as foolish and unnecessary. There
is no justification for true hazing, but there is a need
for pledge education and responsibilities. Life is
about learning how to balance responsibilities.

' The fraternity system at Washington and Lee is
not perfect by any means, and where it can be
improved, we should work to make it even better.
The source of change, though, should not be the Hill,
it should be the students. This school prides itself on
student autonomy, but the Hill seems to take more
power away from the fraternities every year. As a

result, the fraternities resent the interference of the

university, and resist it at every turn. If the Hill steps

 back andLal,lows the. IFC ' d.il'l ivi_ ual pte . ‘to’?
  ay ha ‘gent?
 winimprove onitsown‘. ‘t-tst 4w‘ it onale

behind student government. If we are supposed to act
like adults, then we must be allowed to.

In the end, fraternities play an important role in
the life of this campus. Fraternities produce leaders,
and allow students to grow in directions far beyond
academics. College is a time for growth, not just for
studying. Unfortunately, the Hill seems to have lost
sight of this. This university above all others should
recruit students who excel in academics, but who
also come to college. to cultivate their social and
leadership skills. And maybe even some students
who enjoy going to a party. I think that the attitude of
theHill toward fraternities has changed these last few
years, and not for the better. The Hill has lost sight of
the fact that fraternities help produce well-rounded
individuals.The most telling point in all of this comes
from Dean Atkins, who is responsible for Greek Life
on this campus. The man who should most under-
stand the importance of the fraternity system spells
out the disturbing attitude of the Hill quite nicely. He
notes that “the university has an interest in keeping
fraternities’ numbers high . . .”. Because of all they
contribute to the character of this university, right?
Wrong. Quite simply, the Hill “relies on the Greek
Tax to pay for Fraternity Renaissance.”

Heath Dixon, ’92

TALKBACK

 

Lisa Smith, ’96, Atlanta, Ga. —“A Ashby Hackney,’94,Richmond,Va.
. good looking man in a cheap pair of

tighty whities.” Lex.”

 

-— “When Jim runs out of 40’s at East 93- —‘

Robyn McCord, ’93, H

  What is your biggest pet peeve?

 

early to avoid a late fee.

Superdance

Registration packets for
Superdance are available in front of
Carol Calkins’ office. Sign-up to be
a dancer. and support MDA!

Big 4 Elections

Petitions for Executive Commit-
tee president, vice president, and
secretary, and Student Conduct
Committee chairman can be picked
up at Carol Calkins’ office and are
due by Feb. 1.

Phbt6gtaphs,artwoﬂ<;‘plietryand
prose for Ariel must be turned in to
Carol Calkins’ office by 5 p.m.,
Feb. 1. Questions? Call Brian Car-
penter at 463-1001.

Pub Board

The Pub Board will meet Mon-
day , Feb. 1 at 8 p.m. in The Ring-
tum Phi office. Dates for editor se-
lection interviews will be discussed.
The meeting is open to the public.

ii}; |il'|l'4 is: .

  is Republicans

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

Summer Jobs

Face it, summer is just around
the corner. You don't want to be
stuck at home again this year. Look
for summer employment the easy
way. Meet employers at the Sum-
mer Opportunities Day on'I'hursday,
Feb. 4 from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the
CD&P Office.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, please don’t
drive. Call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates Fridayand Saturday nights
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. If you’re
interested in helping drive call Mel-
issa or Jess at 464-4017.

Dresses

Rockbridge County High School
is having a consignment shop for
prom dresses. Dresses will be on
display until the end of March and,
10 percent of the sale price will be
donated to the Future Homemakers
of America. Questions? Call Joan
Whitesell at 348-5084.

Film Society

The W&L Film Society will
present “Ran” on Friday, Jan. 29
and Saturday, Jan. 30 at 8:05 p.m.
in the Troubadour Cinema. There
is no charge for admission and ev-
eryone is encouraged to attend.

Women’s Forum

There will be a Women’s Forum
meeting on Sunday at 6:30 p.m. in
the Arlington Women’s center. The
topic will be “Women in Business:
Is there a Glass Ceiling?” Everyone
is welcome.

College Republicans will hold a
meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 2 at 7:30
p.m. in the Mock Convention Of-
fice. Affirmative action will be
discussed.

LOSt

Goldcuff-link with round lace.
If found, please call Carlin at 464-
3758.

nity service 3. conduct probation

Student Notice

The Student Conduct Committee found a senior woman in violation of
university standards for breaking a window in a fraternity house. The SCC
imposed the following sanctions: 1. Restitution 2. Three hours of commu-

ouston, Texas and Darcy VanKirk, ’93, Sewickley,

“Guys who don’t appreciate us for our intellect.”

Andrew Campbell, ’94, Delhi, N.Y.,
— “Annoying Talkback questions.”

  

a.:_

Pete Jalbert, ’96, Tampa, Fla. — 
“When I go to the Palms, and I meeta 3
girl, only, when I take her homel find 
out it was actually a man.” 1

 

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1993

Students reject ‘love-it-or-lea ve-it’ Honor System

To the Editor:

I would like to comment on the “My View” essay that
was printed on page 3 of your Jan. 14 issue, which itself was
a response to an earlier essay by Suzanne McCord. In
responding to Mrs. McCord, the author makes many loosely
connected points, one of which seems to be that at least part
of the unfairness in the W&L Honor System is “unavoid-
able,” since the Honor System is an “institution created by
the fallible hands of humanity.” He goes on to state that “I
easily excuse the few errors a human institution such as the
Honor System is liable to make —— accepting even the
potential victim of myself —— in lieu of the overwhelming
good the system otherwise produces.” (Surely he meant “in
light of,” not “in lieu of,” for who would excuse and accept
those errors in place of or instead of that overwhelming
good? Not even he, I assume.) The author seems deter-
mined to blame the bulk of the Honor System’s unfaimess
on the inevitability of the fallibility of human reason, as if he
doesn’t want to admit that much of the unfairness can be
corrected. 1 do not know whether we can do better. But we
ought to try.

When the author ﬁnally does consider the idea of reform,
he writes, “The Honor System is indeed harsh and structur-
ally imperfect, but these are points only the students affected
by it have a right to address, not lookers-on such as yourself
[Mrs. McCord].” Here the author’s alarming complacency
about the near-perfection of the Honor System is com-

- pounded by a petty refusal to take suggestions from certain
proscribed sources of input. If Mrs. McCord really has “no
true understanding of our community” (as he claims), then
her recommendations will be lame and will die the natural

' death that would befall any other uninformed opinion. So if

‘ we discard an opinion as unhelpful in our quest to improve

our university, we should do so because the ideas them-
selves lack merit, not because we are so defensive that we
spum any external criticism.

The author calls Mrs. McCord’s insight “myopic.” But
has the author, while complaining about the speck in her
eye, overlooked the log in his own? He denies that our
system can be improved much, rejects suggestions from her
because they are from her, then calls her bitter. Finally, he
exhibits an unfortunate self-righteousness that is painfully
glaring in his assertion that “certain ideological living
conditions. . . arm us with something most of the world
outside W&L grievously lacks —— honor.” While I share the
author's conviction that being educated at W&L is an
extraordinarily enriching experience, I am also convinced
that the author has overestimated the “honor differential,” if
you will, that distinguishes W&L. Sanctimonious moraliz-
ing can only hurt us if we are sincere in our commitment to
strive for fairness.

In order to be fair myself, I carmot deny that the essay did
contribute to the debate in a meaningful way. Nor do I
begrudge much the author’s attempt to enliven his essay
with some especially strident attacks on Mrs. McCord (for
we all say some things we shouldn’t), but I do wish that he
had paid as much attention to the quality of his ideas as to the
flourish of his rhetoric.

In the end, his essay has the shrill ring of someone who
fears criticism with such anxiety that he desperately stoops
to venomous indignation in order to ward off advice such as
Mrs. McCord’s. I hope that the W&L community will adopt
a more honorable approach to the question of reforming the
Honor System.

Ben Eggleston, ’94

To the Editor:

Mr. Coffin’s contemptuous attack on Mrs. McCord’s
commentary in the recent Ring-tum Phi cannot go unan-
swered. We would like to apologize to Mrs. McCord for the
disrespectful tone that was evidenced in his letter and assure
her that not all Washington and Lee students reacted to her
thoughtful letter with such unthinking hostility. In fact,
those whom we spoke to thought that the letter was an
objective and probing analysis of the procedural failings of
the Honor System. The only conclusion we can draw from
Coffin’s hostility is that truth is often a painful pill to
swallow.

Mr. Coffin’s letter displays unprecedented self-righ-
teousness. How easily Mr. Coffin states, never having been
subject to the Executive Committee's vagaries, that he
would willingly accept the “vestigial risk of judicial error”
and the “few errors” that the Honor System may produce.
Each of these errors impacts on individuals whose worlds
have come crashing down upon them due to procedural
inadequacies inherent in the current system. Moreover, Mr.
Coffin’s implication that the Honor System is some sort of
mythical sacred cow that carmot be challenged is asinine.
No system is perfect; we, as members of the community
bound by this system, welcome helpful observations of any
individual, even if they originate from someone who has not
been subject to the Honor System.

We strongly advocate a reconsideration of the proce-
dures that surround theplionor System. We believe that
many of Mrs. McCord’s suggestions should be carefully
considered by the EC and the Washington and Lee commu-
nity at large. Mrs. McCord’s observations are not iconoclas-
tic. To the contrary, theyare thoughtful, and apparently well
documented criticisms of avenerable yet fallible institution.
First, the fact that students face a harsher punishment if they
appeal Executive Committee decisions is indefensible. Such

a disincentive punishes students who firmly maintain their
innocence and discourages meritorious appeals in adraconitn
manner. Second, the concept of the same individuals
conducting both the investigation phase and the judgment
phase seems to eliminate any chance of a fair hearing before
unprejudiced fact-finders. Third, why isn’t a unanimous
vote required before an individual is found guilty of an
honor offense as occurs in a criminal trial? The ramifica-
tions of a finding of guilt are certainly serious enoughéo
justify a unanimity requirement. Besides, if all of these
violations are as clear cut as Mr. Coffin implies, then
unanimity will be easy to attain.

Finally, why must the whole system be shrouded in
secrecy? We can understand the need for secrecy during the
investigation and if the charges are dismissed or the student
is found innocent, but why must the circumstances sur-
rounding a ﬁnding of guilt be kept secret? Any system that
requires such secrecy is bound to raise suspicions. Does the
post-hearing secrecy really serve any purpose besides cov-
ering up arbitrary decisions and preventing the student body
from knowing the reality of the system to which they have
knowingly subjected themselves? We doubt it.

In conclusion, we were glad to see it announced that the
EC has agreed to establish a formal process for reviewing
the Honor System and revising the White Book. We hope
that the debate over revision of the Honor System continues.
Unlike Mr. Coffin, we can support the concept of an honor
system while still acknowledging that the system itself is far
from perfect and that procedural inadequacies exist which
must be addressed. We strongly condemn the juvenile aid
close-minded “love-it-or-leave-it” attitude that Mr. Coffin
espouses.

Greg Garbacz, ’93L
Jon Soderberg, ’93L

Student regrets lack of diversity at university

 

'.
K
'».
. v
»
..
I
.4
., 4
‘A’
t .
9
,-.
it
2"-
v
0‘!
u’.
I‘.
n
4
,.
:4
a
a
9
4,
p
at
an
1.
a
4
or
‘'4
°.-
‘C
"4;

0'60

..',5.- J. t '. .. -'s'.{’X‘,t 4'3: -)"~>'a ?§'.°'J'.*s’s .'z ;- . s n a I at ulsrit .\‘o'.s'a‘s*t~*a‘.e’¢’e’:*a"s*>';‘6.it*e‘.i»'I

3 To the Editor:
'3 As a freshman student here at Washington
13 and Lee, I have been both delighted and frus-
:3 trated with various aspects of the University.
 As my W&L experience commenced, I discov-
ered manypositive characteristics of the school.
I My classes were small, my professors were
.4 able to be reached when I needed them, the
" faculty and student body seemed kind, and it
.' really was a beautiful, quaint campus. As the
3 first term progressed, however, I was to unfor-
Iv tunately come to the realization that W&L
I lacks possibly the single most important qual-
T ity that makes the college experience so en-
T lightening.
3 As I continued to struggle through the first
1 term academically, I began to meet many new
i friends and I even started going to parties of all
; kinds. This entire process was all so new and
-; exciting to me, and combined with the aca-
- . demic pressure of the first term of my freshman
3 ' year, I was completely oblivious to the fact that

4.»

_ ., »...t.  ». W.-,..  3.

nearly everyone I had met (and when I say parents and increasing your intellectual capac-
nearly everyone, I mean around 95%) hailed ity. An essential part of the college experience

from the same, privi-
leged, conservative,
upperclass upbring-
ing. Which brings
me to the point I
would like to discuss
in this article.
vital quality I alluded
to earlier is diversity.
One word. D-I-V-E-
R-S-I-T-Y.

Now, I don’thave
any results from stud-
ies done or any fancy
numbers to provethat
diversity is a crucial
element in the col-

The’

An essential part of the col-
lege experience is meeting
people from different ethnic
and cultural backgrounds who
bring with them a different per-
spective on society and life in
general.

is meeting people
from different eth-
nic and cultural
backgrounds who
bring with them a
different perspec-
tive on society and
life in general.
Unfortunately,
for the majority of
W&L students
who hail from
privileged back-
grounds and who
attended expensive
private schools,
they will never

lege experience. I can, however, say with
certainty that going away to college is much
more than gaining independence from your

have the opportunity to become familiar with
these different cultures and outlooks on the
world. It is for these students that I feel the most

a‘-

BJEEHT

the 4

PRESS

' l

o-x.~a-nu

  The Ring-tum Phi
invites you to an Open
House at the Phi Office,
University Center 208,
ll ct.m.-4 p.m. on Feb. 5.

 Talk about the Phi with us
 and see how your news-
paper is made!

<4»
<4»
(0)
(0)
<4»
<1»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<<»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
(0)
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
(0)
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4» '

sorry. In spite of the fact that they will probably
graduate with a degree from one of the finest
liberal arts schools in the country and land a job
earning large sums of money, they will be
altogether absent of any perspective other than
their own.

What I'm trying to say is that this is exactly
what is wrong with our society today. Racism
ﬂourishes in American society for precisely the
reason I described earlier. There is no under-
standing between people of different races and
cultures, or any effort to understand for that
matter.

We suffer as a nation because people are so
caught up with themselves and how much money
they hope to earn someday or have already
earned, that they allow themselves to remain
totally ignorant of other perspectives and cul-
tures.

I believe that the true strength of our nation I

lies in the diversity of our people, and the only

-‘-way-~ to hamess« that strength is --to promote 3»

LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLJE-‘LJLL
&%€%€%%%%€%%%€%%€€T%%€%

tudent

ctivities

presents -

Munrie Night
in the  
Thuuhaduuri

Featuring

SNEAKERS

Thursday, January 28th 8:0(i) p.m.

Saturday, January 30th 3:00 p.m.

understanding and awareness among all of us.
I would like to sum up by saying that in order for
our nation to move forward as a whole, we mu t
recognize that everyone plays an intricate ro e
in making us great. We must promote nation-
wide understanding and awareness among all
of our people, and stray away from racism and
ignorance.

If tlrere’s one thing I’d like you to remem-
ber about this article, it’s that in order to care
about something, you must first understand ii.
We all owe it to each other to make an effort to
become less self-oriented and understand one
another more.

Unfortunately, W&L just doesn’t offer us
this opportunity. Anyway, to _those (few) of
you who can relate to what I have expressed in
this article, I wish you luck in your quest far
different ideas and perspectives here at W&L.
Just don’t stop trying.

tEvafi”Af Knisely, ’96

(ii)
(0)
(0)
(0)

44» .r
<4»
(0)
<4»
(0)
(0) '
<4» I
(0)
<4»
<4» ,
(0)
<4»
<4»  
<4» 
4»
4»)
<4»
<4» 
<4»
<4»
<4»
(0)
<4»
(0) -
<4»
(0)
<4»
<4»

oard

(0) i
. (0)
(0)
(0) .i
(ll) 2
(0) ..
(0)
(0)
(0) '
(0)
(0)

<4» _
(0)
(0)
(ii)
(0)

<1» - ,

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT

 

<4» ° ‘

<1» "

R

    
    

The Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

Aussiker F
to head
counselors

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Reporter

h

Junior Heather Aussiker was ap- ‘

pointed head dorm counselor and jun-
ior Jamie Hardman was named head
resident assistant for 1993-94.
Dean of Freshmen and Residence
.J.ife Dennis Manning said the selec-
tion committee looked for students who
“represent most clearly the kinds of
qualities that freshmen would aspire to
themselves.”

Aussiker said she will concentrate
on training the dorm counselors and

‘getting them more involved with each
other.

“A well-trained staff will benefit
the incoming freshmen,” Aussiker said.

Aussiker said that though she will
focus on the dorm counselors, she will
always be ready to help anyone with a

problem.

“Of course, my door will always be
open if someone needs help and can't
get a hold of a dorm counselor.”

The head dorm counselor is respon-
sible for all 30 dorm counselors.

 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

What’s that smell?

Merlin, an albino ferret, checks out his owner's shoes during

a walk on campus. Merlin is currently looking for a new home.
His owner, sophomore Andrew Sutherland, said Merlin is litter
trained and costs $160, including litter, bedding and the leash.

Women’s clothing.

Now $3.00. Se

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and

Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99

Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)

Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

 

PAGE 5

W&L fraternity members face
criminal, IFC investigations

By CATHRYN LOPICCOLO
and RICHARD PELIZ
Phi Executive Editors

Several W&L fraternity members
could face criminal charges and disci-
plinary action from the IFC for cutting
down a $150 bamboo tree in a VMI
professor's yard.

Virginia Miliary Institute Professor
of Electrical Engineering John Gordon
reported to police about two weeks ago
that a bamboo tree in his yard, at 724
Thom Hill Rd., had been cut down by
trespassers at night. According to a
report ﬁled with Lexington police, the
vandals left a trail of bamboo down
Main Street.

Sally Gordon, James Gordon’s wife,
said she reported the incident to Wash-
ington and Lee Associate Dean of Stu-
dent Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins on Jan.
18. Atkins said he found the perpetra-
tors.

“I checked around to see who might
be responsible, and [several students]
admitted to having done it,” Atkins
said.

Atkins refused to identify the men
involved in the incident. He said the

students were not aware that the tree
was on private property and that they
apologized to the Gordons. Sally Gor-
don said eight men apologized.

Police Chief Bruce M. Beard said a
criminal charge of destroying private
property is pending, and the incident is
under investigation. The case's inves-
tigating officer, Sgt. Torben Pedersen,
was out of town and could not be
reached this week.

Sally Gordon said that although the
men apologized, her husband intends
to press charges. She said the destruc-
tion of the tree was not an isolated
incident.

“We’ve had trouble with this the
whole nine years we've lived here,”
she said.

In the past, the Gordons did not
press charges because the damaged
trees were at the edge of their property
line, Sally Gordon said. But she said
the tree in this case is clearly on the
Gordons’ property.

She said W&L students have asked
permission to cut down the Gordons’
bamboo in past years, and the Gordons
have said no.

The W&L Iiiterfraterriity Council is
still considering disciplinary action

against the men, Atkins said. He also
said incidents similar to the bamboo-
cutting happen frequently.

“This is one of those things that
happens every year,” Atkins said. “ [The
IFC] just doesn’t seem to be able to get
the message across.”

Fraternity and administration offi-
cials are also investigating a weekend
incident in Red Square.

Pi Kappa Alpha house mother Ann
Davis called security when shethought
an intoxicated student might have dam-
aged the house, Atkins said. The day
after the incident, Davis found a dead
fish in her apartment.

“This is in the process of sorting
out,” Atkins said.

The identity of the intoxicated stu-
dent has not been confirmed, and it is
not known if he put the fish in the PiKA
house.

Davis would not comment other
than to say the incident was not what it
seems and is not newsworthy. Security
Director Mike Young said he does not
know the details of the incident.

Atkins said, “I feel confident that
the individual will be dealt with by
[his] fraternity or the Student Conduct
Committee.”

  

    
   

  

 

  

Letters to the
Editor are due

Tuesdays at
Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 - n90” to The _
ected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00. Fling-tu m Phi

office, 208 Uni-
versity Center.

 

 

W&L Summer Programs

W&L Dining Hall &. Lexington COW §

YMCA Camp Thunderbird
YMCA Camp Woodstock

I
0 ‘ Live in an exotic location.

     
 
  
   
    
    
      
  
  

:.:.-.-.-.-I.-.-I.-I:-.-.'L-iv. .5 -u -.-.-.- ......................... -.-. --------------------------------------- . -.-.-.-3': ...... ' .'.'.'.-.'. .v. .-u- .............. .-.r .................................................. .-.r ........................ ' .-l. .............................................. ____ _ f, ‘1

 v  W&L Art
  ¢ 4 %t¢«6(/5411/5  187°Was.*;mg.;°r,1,<.;°v,e.ge Diploma
55 E s ne “ . e"

 Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 am.  Mam Lee S‘g““‘“’°;°;;E_ me. J,_
 All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at  liitirfeﬁh ""° uuw;’r‘2i“iz‘ai§f.‘il}i’é'
 Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 3.IIl. t0 2 p.111. All-U-Can Eat   W<%VL&(I:oppgrglate re-lsrtglike. hand-colored
 . . . 5 an E.Lee t d dlti art
55; Wednesda Ni ht BBQ NI ht - choice of otato & ve atable 5 Sculptures by Reuerueniselin

D ;:; : George and Mary Washington pieces
. 1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95 _ 

- Saturday Night Prime Rib  ﬂ ’ ‘
 Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95 T E l lllllllllllllfi
5:5 , rucli Stop 2
 Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day. _   
 4  North on Route  ‘   4 East Washington Street Open Monday - Saturday
5; . E -_- Lexington, VA 24450 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
 . We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell ,: = , (703)
;_-:;._..,_.._.,a_.._._.,. ......................................................................................................................................................................... ._ .  ................................................. .. k _ 5' J1
. _ E_____ _____________________E,  ._ .   
P { : , Just do it!
I
1 ‘ E °"’°& sUMMER%%
I _ .
U a : E 
; , OPPORTUNITIES 3.,
e
I Got
C :  DAY '3
~ 6 I l
I
/ A g. E THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1993

I | .

;    : 11:00 A.M. UNTIL 4.00 P.M.

l ._ ..

- I1 ,  studentto g UNIVERSITY CENTER
A. gchairman of the board;  at
I G b b d d h bod | Camp Bethel _ ' Q
_ d : meaub§.i.uZ§§i‘I3i‘3irVrSiiefgreipivlévfriiwbgaﬁ .l‘.§‘§;‘.l::t : C=unvBr°ad,st°ne~APva*a°h1anSW Um“ 0%,

| our challenging half pipe. Ski Massanutten any Monday or Friday after | ¢},“°' Camp C”°““a 33)

I 12:00 pm for our College Days rates, just $14 for a lift ticket with your I .35’ Cam!’ C317 5b'°°k 2) O3
: valid college ID. Bring this ad and you’ll receive an additional $2 off the ' ‘[00 Camp 535151’ S331 x O 6!»
| College Days lift ticket rate. Lessons and limited snowboard rentals are : Q\° % Caroline Fumace I-“them Camp  ré .

C  : available. So come on, join the fun. And prove who's the boss. I Q?’ Camphill 3911396 OJ’ (5)
a ‘ I Camp Meme-Woode o
3 :  : «S» cunpmoc-«me. es,
| Virginia s Four Season Mountain Resort I  Camp Rockmont for Boys 6
 - 8 5 8 1 I  Axlileisv "E2"z:sVtmo'f7l:larrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33 I   Sca  &  SCa.faIer 
LCopyn'ghl 1993. Great Eastern Resorts. WL -I:   Towanda ' 
-~—-——-"’ _  ______ _--"-""""""'  CarnpWalden  ‘QOJ,
M M Q, Camp Wayne ‘
L this Elk's Camp Barrett ‘Rf,
" Friendship Conference Center 53
Hecht's-A Division of the May Dept. Stores Ce 96
. \- Inteniational Foundation/Employee Benefits ‘foe,
, , $000 Ken-Mont and Ken-Wood Camps 96
| E \)- National Park Service, Capital Region 90
Public Defender’s~Office '
Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear, Refugee Resettlement & Immigration Services
‘ Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount S0t}IhW<_=St¢m_C0-
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive U’“"e’S"Y_ Palnle’-°~ 19°-
merchandise frotn America’s most famous mail U;S°,EF‘3"5h F{’v““d“':§’“ l B d
order houses. New shipments Every Week! V"g““‘ 5”“ 3”" °"”° °"

 

PAGE 6

 

FEATURES

oi the century photographers, such as Lewis Carroll, resemble Mann’s photos. “Sally managed to
take new kinds of photographs with an old piece of equipment,” said Ted Orland, former assistant
to Ansel Adams. ~

This selfportralt oi Mann  her chllen aso features her large-format caera. he work of turn

The Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

 

‘IMMEDIATE

Local photographer Sally Mann
chronicles the bumps, bruises

ocal resident Sally Mann

and two of her three chil-

dren rubbed elbows last

week with celebrities such

asactress Kim Basinger and
rapper L.L. Cool J at MTV’s Rock the
Vote Party.

In recent years, Mar1n’s photogra-
phy has catapulted her and her family
into the national limelight, far from
Lexington, where she was born and
raised.

At her home, not far from historic
downtown, visitors are greeted in the
driveway by two red, metal dragons. A
cherub sits on a ma1mequin's legs that
stick straight out of apatch of dirt in her
front yard. As visitors approach the
front door they might not notice an-
other dragon peering at them from the
roof.

The walls of the home abound with
Mann’s photographs of her family, es-
pecially those of her three children.

Thirteen-year—old Emmett, 11-year-
old Jessie and seven-year-old Virginia
are the subjects of
Mann’s latest col-
lection of black-
and-white photog-
raphy.

Her latest
book, titled “Im-
mediate Family,”
spans eight years
of intimate pho-
tography and is
turning heads in
book stores.

“Itisanexpres-
sionist, sometimes
metaphorical
chronicle, of
growing up in a
particular place,”
she said.

V But the artistry
of Mann’s black-

The Mann girls look just “gorjus“ playing dress-up. ‘‘I suppose I could do a normal domestic picture of the kids doing
their homework," she said. “But that’s not what I do.”

and-white prints is not the only con-
cern of viewers. Some of the haunt-
ingly powerful portraits show her chil-
dren in the nude, and the photographs
have prompted debate on their value as
art.
Her latest collection includes pho-
tographs of her young children not
only nude, but
stained by dirt and

and beauty of growing up.

gets merchandised.

“I don’t respond to the carrot of
money,” she said. “They can’t have.
their prints just because they can pay
for them. It will take at least two to
three years to finish the order and they
[the buyers] are just going to have to
wait.”

Some critics

blood.
“The book is so

BY J over: BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

draw parallels beb
tween Mann ’s work
and that of Robert

hard-hitting,” she
said. “It got me into
trouble that I didn’t intend to get into.
Looking back on it, I would have liked
to put in softer, less aggressive pic-
tures.”

Some critics accuse Mann of ex-
ploiting her children, while others find
the sensual innocence of the work cap-
tivating. Richard Woodward of The
New York Times Magazine, in a Sept.
27 cover story, described her work as
disturbing and provocative.

Mann said the controversy was
“media-generated and media-fueled.”

“There wasn’t a controversy until
The New York Times said so,” she
said. *

Mann’s work is part of permanent
collections at the Metropolitan Mu-
seum of Art and Museum of Modern
Art in New York, the National Mu-
seum of American Art and the Hirshom
Museum in Washington, D.C.

At her June exhibition in the Houk
Friedman Gallery in New York City,
collectors ordered about 400 prints,
she said. The New York Times esti-
mated the orders to be worth about $1
million.

“Those ﬁgures are remarkable for a
photographer, in a recession,” Mann
said. “The emphasis of the shows seems
to be on sales.”

She said the only thing that troubles
her about the attention is the way the art

Mapplethorpe.

But Mann said
the formality of Mapplethorpe’s work
has always bothered her.

“His work seems stylized and im-.
personal,” she said. “They’re too
staged.”

Mann said she prefers taking photos
that seem more candid, but she said she
values Mapplethorpe’s effort.

“What he tried to do was make
something many people think of as.
‘dirty’ beautiful,” she said.

Like Mapplethorpe, Mann has re-
ceived grants from the National En-
dowment for the Arts. She said NEA
funding has become more acessible in
recent years.

“In order to receive a grant from the
NEA [before],” she said. “I could not’
submit pictures that could be judged
‘obscene.”’

When The Wall Street Journal ran a
photograph of then four-year-old Vir-
ginia, it censored her eyes, breasts and
genitals with black bars, according to
Woodward's article. '

The cover art of “Immediate Fam-
ily’-’ features Mann’s three children
bare-breasted and ready to take on the
storm of critics and admirers.

But Mann believes her children’s
comfort in front of the camera reﬂects
their self—conﬁdence. 9

“They have no doubt about what
they can be,” she said.

Mann said Virginia appears in more photographs than her other "'

two children.

“Damaged Child” — 1984 — This photo of then tour-

year-old Jessie prompted Mann to take more pictures
other children. Here, Jessie returns from school after
being bitten by gnats.The connotation of child abuse
was intentional, she said. For Mann, titling is a gut

reaction.

 

The Fling-tum Phi, January 28, 1993

FEATURES

The cover of Mann's latest compilation of photography, “Immediate Family," features her three children looking defiantly on
the world. “I chose this photograph because they look so self-possessed," Mann said. Her children, from left to right, are
seven-year-old Virginia, 13-year-old Emmett and 11-year-old Jessie. The photo conveys each child’s distinct personality:
Virginia is “in your face," Emmett is “far too cool" and Jessie is “mature beyond her years.”

. party.

Mann's children find the whole ce-
lebrity experience to be quite an adven-
ture.

“It‘s pretty cool,” Jessie said. “You
meet a lot of people and go to lots of
places.”

OThei children said R.E.M. lead vo-
calist Michael Stipe visits Mann in
Lexington every several months.

“Stipe was the one who invited me
to the MTV Rock the Vote party,”
Mann said. “It was the first time I had
seen him perform. He was fabulous.”

‘The youngest child, Virginia, was
absent from Wednesday’s inaugural
But she is usually an
indispensible element in her mother’s
work.

..‘fI like dressing up in ball gowns for
her, but sometimes she takes too many
[m'ctures],” Virginia said.

Emmett is more straightforward

about why he models for his mother.

“I’m a main part of her income,” he
said. “She needs me.”

Mann admits it is difficult to be an
artist and a mother.

“I want to be their friend, but I also‘

have to be the one to ground them when
they need it,” she said.

To her neighbors, Mann says she is
just another local.

“To lots of people, I’m simply
Larry’s wife.”

Mann said she once exhibited apho-
tograph of her husband swimming in
the nude.

“A writer from the Roanoke Times
saw it and wrote that I had photo-
graphed my husband with an erect pe-
nis,” she said. fflt «was» ridiculous. I
mean, come on, the water had to be
only 60 degrees.”

Laurence Mann, a Lexington law-

This photo of Jessie is one of many photographediat the Mann

c8bin on the Maury River.

“The Last Time Emmett Modelled Nude" — 1987

0

Photos by Sally Mann, reproduced with permission

yer and 1970 W&L graduate, met his
wife during his senior year. '
“It was love at first sight,” she said.
Mann completed her college educa-
tion at Hollins in 1977, while living in
Lexington and working as a photogra-
pher for W&L.
Mann said that Lex-
ington is an environ-
ment that fosters artis-
tic work.
“There are very open
people here, and on the
whole, they are toler-
ant,” she said.
Despite Marm’s ar-
tistic achievements,she
said hermain goal is not
a creative one. - -~
‘‘All I want to do is '
send my kids to col-
lege.”

“The Wet Bed” - 1987 — This photograph of then two-year-old Virginia was staged by Mann. Virginia said this is
her favorite picture of herself.

    

PAGE 8

Students help locals

Cl SWIM, from page 1

He said Elkins wanted to play the
bells for Kristen, who can hear high-
pitched noises, but she could‘ not hold
Kristen and play at the same time.

Remillard wentto see how he could
help, "and Elkins asked him to hold
Kristen.

“An interesting thing happens when
you hold a baby,” Remillard said. “I
bonded with that baby.”

Soon after Christmas, Kristen
stopped vomiting and her eyes began
to roll back in her head.

Elkins took Kristen to the Univer-
sity of Virginia hospital, where the
child has gone once a week for the past
two years for medical care.

The doctors told Susan that it was
time to stop trying. They said Kristen
was too weak to vomit anymore and
that her eyes rolled back in her head
because she was in severe pain.

Elkins took a leave of absence from
her jobso she could be with Kristen
day and night.

 
 
  

\\\\

 

 .

 

  

\\

Positions include: Tennis, Golf, Swim (W.S.I. preferred),
Waterski, Sailing, Basketball, Volleyball, Softball, Soccer,
  Gymnastics, Dance / Cheerleading, Aerobics, Drama,

"//////////////////////// ////7///////J’/////////////////////////////////////////
/

pogo9.Qo*'

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories
23 N. Main St. (703) 463-5988
/ Lexington, VA 24450

ﬂ

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard redli Car

Now you can have two-of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Visa0 and MasterCard@
credit cards.."in your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISAG and MasterCard0 the credit cards you
deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
ST ORES—’I‘UITlON—ENTER'I‘AI NM ENT-
EMERGENCY 0iSH—TlCKE'IS—RESTAURAN'l'S—
HU_I”ELS—MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS-
REPAiRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

Other teachers volunteered to give
Elkins their own paidpsick days, but
were told that it was illegal.

So Remillard decided he wanted to
do something for Kristen.

“I [couldn’t] give her a bone mar-
row transplant,” he said. “ I [couldn’t]
give her blood.” A

Remillard thought he could do more
if he joined with other people.

That's when Remillard thought of
his swimmers.

Remillard said the swim-a-thon, in
which swimmers swam for 30-minute
shifts, went well.

“The dependability and the account-
ability of the athletes was impressive,"
he said. “Everybody wanted to be a
part of the recovery process.”

Contributions to the Kristen Elkins
Memorial Fund are tax-deductible and
may be sent to the Manly Memorial
Baptist Church, 202 S. Main St.

“It’s like when you and your friends
pool together to buy a special gift for
someone,”Remillard said. "I'hat’s what
we’re doing.”

     
 

\

 

 

The Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

 

Sweatin’ bullets

  

oto y J si, I Fling-tum Pm

Representatives from Wachovia Bank chat with senior Brian Brading, right, at a reception for students who plan to interview with the

bank. According to the latest Career Development and Placement Office report, 51 percent of last year's graduates are employed in at

business, government and industry. The Wachovia employees are, left to right, Jean Stroman, Rick Armstrong and Bo Brookby.

 

 

 

\

 

\\\\§\‘\.

130 S. Main St.

   

Cannndale - - Dirt 1:
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

- \

- Gian:

        
 

CEN

  

463-7969

 

 

it Read the Phi.

   
  
 
  

 

No credit

No security deposit!

Approval absolutely guaranteed so
MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

ds?

 

COUNSELORS WANTED
for Camp Wayne, a co-ed children's camp

 

EXTRA INCOME NOW!

ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week - 1
Free Details: SASE to I
International Inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

 
  
 

—unn—:n’n—uQ-u---Q--Q-sun

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLANTATION.FL 3331

 Iwant VISA0/MASTBQCARDQ Credit

Cards. Enclosed Iind $5 which is 100% refundable if not
approved immediately.

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY STATE __ ZIP
PHONE SS.”
SIGNATURE

N01‘!-2 MastaCard is I rqlslered trademark d Mutercnrd Inter-natioml. Inc.
Visa is a registered tnderrnrk oI'VISA USA. Inc and VISA lnermttonal

S°“'°=* *”°°""°" 1oo°/. ouanauresor

r::t.“"»v‘j*' .
, ,..~, .

I I
crudrotronrcs
AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
TOSHIBA MARANTZ
KEF CWD
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA

‘ SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

° BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

’ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
’ IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

‘ WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

' MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

in northeastern Pennsylvania.
June 22 through August 20

    
 
       

   

 
 

  

Guitar, Nature / Camping, Batik, Sculpture, Ceramics,  
Painting, Silkscreen, Photography, Self-Defense, other po-
sitions available.

On campus interviews
Thursday, February 4, 1993

A For more information, call 516-889-3217 or write
12 Allevard St., Lido Beach, NY 11561. Include your

school phone number.

41

 

0

re Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

  MEANS LOW PRICES

    
   

amser

4;

    

A
REDUCED PRICE
21 ~ 25 COUNT

W

Two ODAC losses damage
W&L’s tournament chances

D FRUSTRATION, from page 10

ﬁdent heading into the final third of the
season.
y“Well, it’s tough. It’s been a rough
year. But we're more optimistic than
you might think. We have eight or nine
games with ODAC opponents, and we
think we can make the toumament.”
After the Bridgewater game, the
Generals held the eighth spot in the
ten-team ODAC. The top eight teams
make the post-season tournament.
Canﬁeld says the team has a clear
choice.

599     Y  
y  . Split Cken Breas

WTTNROIIOHICEI

I—O JZIITID

oi Chicken

  
  
 

  

In a meet made-up largely of Divi-
sion I teams, freshman Josephine
Schaeffer continued to show that her
success in cross country is easily
transfered to the indoor track season.

For the second time this year
Schaeffer set a school record in her
first race in an event.

“I hope we come back strong. You
can fold up, or say let’s keep going.
There's no magic formula,” he said.

The Generals could have used a
magic formula against Hampden-
Sydney last night.

W&L entered the game percentage
points ahead of the Tigers. After the
game, they were percentage points be-
hind.

The Generals fell to their ODAC
rivals 89-67. The loss dropped W&L to
4-12, 2-9 in the ODAC.

Miggins continued to shoot well,
just not enough. He finished 3-for-4

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

in a time of 18:07. The time was also
good enough to give Schaeffer the win,
her first for’ the indoor track team.

The All-American cross country star
also help the 3,200-meter relay team to
a school-record time of 10:32.

The other three runners to set the
new record were sophomores Kim
Herring and Sue Deutch, and freshman

from the ﬂoor and 4-for-6 from the
line, foratotal of 10 points. He also had
10 rebounds, all in 25 minutes of play.

The defense still had problems giv-
ing up easy shots. The Tigers shot 56.5
percent for the game, shooting 34-of-
60 from the field.

The Generals shot 42 percent for the
game, and had some success under the
offensive boards, grabbing 13 re-
bounds.

The Generals did go without two
key players, Bryan Watkins and Cam
Dyer, who were both back in Lexing-
ton with the ﬂu.

Megan Gavin.

On the men's side, Dax Mahoney,
David Phillips, Scott Covey and Grant
Cowell ran an ODAC—best time in the
mile relay of 3:33.4.

Also, senior Harrison Shull high-
jumped 6-4 to tie the top height in the
ODAC this year.

 

y.TYSON-HOLLY FARMS
GRADE "A" SPLIT

FR ' ER LIMIT 3 PLEASE,
WITH ADDITIONAL
IIIIIIIIIIIIILB. .

+WHITE DIET PEPSI OR
POTATOES PEPSI COLA

PEPSI  
A

Schaeffer ran the 5 ,.000-meter race

  

E“""L°V""E“T°"P°F”“”'” SPECIAL SKI PROGRAM ANNOUNCED
ALASKA SUMMER FOR
EMPLOYMENT ——-—

W & L STUDENTS & FACULTY

FISHERIES - Students Needed! Earn ,
$600+ per week in canneries or
54,000+ per month on ﬁshing boats.
Free Transportation! Room and Board!
Over 8,000 openings. No experience
necessary. MALE or FEMALE. For
employment program call: ,
1-206-545-4155 Ext. A5342
Student Employment Services
. Achievement Through Adventure

Students wishing to work In Aluhniun be
etynieen or older and In good physical condition.

We are pleased to announce the establishment of a special W&L Ski
Program which is being made available by the Winterplace Ski Resort.
W&L Students and Faculty wishing to take advantage of this special ski
program must present their W&L identiﬁcation card when purchasing lift
tickets, renting ski equipment, or renting a condo.

SPECIAL PRICES ARE:

Weekdays (Monday through Friday)

Lift Tickets Rental Quipment
(skis, boots, and poles)

 

L

Make ‘Us

L H 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $14.95 $7.95
(lug 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $17.95 $7.95
3 p.m. to 10 p.m. $12.95 $5.95

Saturday. Sunday, Holidays

The Phi

 
 

 

    
  

 
 
 
 

 

Lift Tickets Rental Iguipment
.   .  “  ...needs-a,.   . _,,,,,,,,,,,_,,,,,,,,,,,,

. v - 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $27.95 $12.95
ﬁ  9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $34.95 $12.95

h 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. $18.95 $ 7.95

llITlOl'
I . W & L Special Ski Lessons
co umnist.
1 1/2 hour group lesson by
\\ , T l——__‘'‘' RR Y OR PUNCH 3 9 Winterplace Professional Ski School for only $6.95 per
(,5 9‘  . lesson - regularly $12.00!
9 2  JUICE .................... .. 46 oz. If you think you A
_.:.:‘:‘ \\ I '5‘. . (.3 ‘ . _ .
_-.-.   ,_$T 9 can  the Space, Winterplace Condominiums

'1 ' - 2 Submit a San] lg I 2 B drooms - Parlor, 2 baths, kitchen - sleeps 6 -
1      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8  p avaielablc Sunday     _ only 

3
299

HARRIS TE ETERS of your writing to per ,,,gh.,
   SHAMPOO OR CONDITIONER _ _ ,
 the Phl Offlce ln Winterplace Ski Resort is under new ownership and has vastly
J H O   P """""" " 8 ' I 3 OZ‘ foofn  of the improved its snowmakiiig capability, added new trails (now 24
 S ASSORTED O 9 University Center. rSi:rv:il:i:ts (now 4 chair lifts + 2 surface lifts) and a new dining an
You Could Win One Of These Fabulous FLAVOR 1 For more I
P"ze5° see Detmls And Reglsler At The P """" " 6 - 7 OZ‘ Winterplace Ski Resort is located 16 miles South of Beckley, West

Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter. ,

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando
Florida For The Game With Orlando
Magic, Includes Air Fare On U.S. Air
Accommodations And Game Tickets.

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,
g N.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes
Game Tickets & Hotel Accommodations.

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call I-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

0 One Pair Oi Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away

information Call Virginia, 1 1/2 miles from the Ghent exit on Interstate 77.

\ Fran, Cathy or
Rick at 463-_858l

0

GOLD COLLECTION
CRO WLE Y
  Anticipated conditions on Saturday, January 23rd are - 17 traiLs open

9 y with all chairlifts operating. - 
p Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee 

If you need additional info, or need to confirm lodging reservations,
call 304/ 787-3221. For latest snow conditions, call snow phone 1-800-
25 8-3 127.

.94-e_.( -'-.,-"-..:-;.‘_-7...»  “:   -' ‘ ' ‘
:v“(::_.‘L“1:...‘<_._V_‘(_‘.,a . . » .« . . .- I . . . - r e . Ll . . ,~.   ,- - -« -.

r « "iv 14‘; "-7.3

 

' In Each Harris Teeter For March/April Games.  
"‘."<' °°'°"~" “"4 R°9‘$'°' A’ The "-°'<° GALLON - Counselors for Summer Scholars July 4 - July 30, 1993 5
Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter. T

vALuA3|_E coupoN g vA|_uA3|_E coupoN Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school senoirs.
o I BUY 0 N E GET ONE BUY ONE GET ONE I rft(S)11nS6lOI‘ serves as a resident advisor in Graham-Lees dormitory for 10

I When You Purchase One 16 Oz. Pkg. Of
Plain, Cinn/Raisin Or Onion
. | .

BROOKLYN BAG L

FREE I

I when you p,,,c,,,.,se o,,e11_25 - 15 Oz_ - Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 7 - August 3
Box Of Honey Nut, Multi Grain, Apple .
I Cinnamon Or Reg.

CHEERIO$_

.”.....nv-
. .,

The Office of Special Programs employs 4 W&L students to serve as
hosts/liostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni

Ch_ee_n9='°”

 
 

 
   
 

H ‘5°3° 5. - .n'o'!iu ..'A '. I I 00901000 .A_w,~,~....  Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
i>A’e°c‘3“J2»'$"n"»9«3’P5'3I535i57idX°°d6"""' ”U?4‘° i5‘$ZCc1“u9-i1”?3?P5'?3h5-3eR’3v?GjfgdX‘§ibl5i3"  ,,:.- management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.
r January 27, 0- _"

Minimum Purchase. Oller Good January 27,
I tltru February 2,l993
.l

31 00
I-yc.-0U‘Po6_g4¢vALUE Hattlsmetet

Q

5

0

CI)
11111

FROZEN Minimum Purchase. Olle
I U thru February 2,1993

COUPONW/ALUE
I 2.7

Application deadline, February 27, 1993.

LE sf-o_,

’ For further information, please Contact Office of the Special Programs,
Howard House, 463-8723.

' Prices Effective Throu h February 2, I992.

1 Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday January 27 Throu h uesday, February 2 I992. In Lexinton Stores
I Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. Noneg5old To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 

  

    
  
  
   
    
      
    
    
        
    
   
    
     
      
  
    
     
     
  
   
      
     
    
   
    
     
     
    
    
    
    
     
    
   
  

Last Week:

Bball- H-SC 89,W&L 67 (4-12)
MSwim- 2nd of 4 at W&L Invit. (6-0)
WSwim- 4th of 4 at W&L Invit. (6-1)
Wrestle- 5th of 8 at W&L Invit. (2-3)

This Week:

Bball— at Guilford 1/30;

Va. Wesleyan 2/3 7:30

Swim- at F&M 1/30 (M&W); .
at Hollins 2/4 (W)

Wrestle- At Gallaudet Invit. 1/30

Ellie iﬁittg-tum iﬂlii

SPORTS  

Competition intensifies
as swimmers better times

enough for one of the four second- Hopkins’ 506.
place ﬁnishes by individual Gener- Freshman Rebekah Prince con-
als. ‘ tinued her sensational first season,

The Washington and Lee men’s Fellow freshman Frank Braden and sent a clear message to all com-
and women's swimming teams wel- placed second in the 200-freestyle petitors that she will be one to watch
comed four teamsto the CyTwombly with a good time of 1:49.69. Holicky for come tournament time.

Pool last weekend forthe W&L Invi- added a second in the 200-breast- Prince came from behind to take
tational. stroke at 1:04.37, followed by the 200—backstroke in 2:17.51, edg-

The men earned their second- Pearson with a second in his stron- ing out the next two swimmers by
place showing by finishing in the top gest event, the 50-freestyle. less than one second. Prince set the
three 14 times. The Generals ended Sophomores Roland Chase and school record in this event last week
the meetwith 598 points, while Johns John Rowe each contributed a third- against Georgetown .

Hopkins swam away with 755; place ﬁnish, Rowe swimming a sea- Prince added second-place fin-
Emory was third with 517 and son-best in the 400-Individual med- ishes in the 400-IM and "100-back-
Swanhmore dropped anchor early ley. He touched at 4:26.27. stroke.

on finishing with just 324 points. It was W&L’s depth that proved ‘ Sophomore Brandi Henderson’s

The men posted ﬁve season-best to be the difference between second top finish came in the 500-freestyle.
times, three of them in relay races. and third. The Generals did not have She finished second.

The 400-medley relay team of a winner in any of the 18 races, but it Senior Claire Dudley had a strong
Anton Diederich, Grant Holicky, had just enough high finishes to edge meet, claiming third place in the
Tom Donnelly and Andrew Pearson out Emory by 81 points. 100-and 200-breaststroke.
coasted to second place in their sea- It was the opposite scenario when The women also got in on the
son-best of 3:47.90. it came to the women. season-best times act with their 800-

The 200-medley relay team of The women has several strong freestyle relay team. The quartet of
Bryan Drum, David Stillman, individual perforrnances,butaroster sophomore Susan Fisher, Dudley,
Holicky and Pearson also posted a with only eight swimmers simply Henderson and Prince touched at
season-best, with atime 1:44.26, just isn’t big enough to outscore three 8:28.85 for a third-place finish.

a second-and-a-half behind the win- larger squads. W&L’s aquatics are in action
ners. The Generals could only muster again Saturday as they hop a bus for

Freshman Craig Sears put up a 296 points for a fourth—place finish. Pennsylvania. Both teams will com-
career, and season, best time of That was well behind Emory’s 657, pete against only one team this time,
2:05.39 in the 200-backstroke, good Swarthmore ’s 604 and Johns the one from Franklin & Marshall.

PAGE 10 JANUARY 28, 199

W&L can’t buy win

outside itclears up the post area. I don’t rie or win with 15 seconds lefi?
1'93")’ like 10 P13)’ With my The Generals madeow
back to the basket, this opens more 3-pointers, and they

You’re doing a 15—page term paper it up more. It looks like it’s grabbed 11 offensive re-
and it just doesn’t feel right. working.” bounds, seven more th

Try and try as you might, your cen- The game against the Bridgewaien
tral thesis just seems to get lost in the Eagles was nightmarish for The seeond-ehane
words. What do you do? Canfield when the Generals points kept W&L in the

As painful as it is, you throw out were on defense.The break— game and really gor rgern
yourfirstrough copyanddecide to start down was complete. 5  » V» to those final 15 seeond5_
over. Well, you know exactlyhow head Bridgewater shot 60.9 per- Migms speaking of ihose firia
basketball coach Verne Canfield feels. cent in the ﬁrst, and 66.7 for 15 seconds, Junior Mai

From the start of this year, his cen- the game. Newton took the ball outside the 3-
tral thesis for the team just seemed to Canfield said the Generals helped point are on rhe lefi side He was1ook_
get lost in the action. So, he decided to build the Eagles’ confidence. ing nndernearh for Miggins, bar rhe
start over. “We let themrun their offense.They Eagles had it defended,

Canfield instituted a new offense he very confidently took shots from their Newton iried to work ii io rhe r?ghi
hoped would help open the middle for spots,” he said. and could find no one. Finally fresh-
Robert Mi g gins, giving him more of an From what I’ve told you, what do man Cam Dyer got the ball on the right
opportunity to improve on his 69.7 per- think the halftime score was? Time’s baseline with his back io rhe ba5ker_
cent shooting from the ﬂoor. up. With three seconds to go Dyer put

The new offense brings four players No, it was not a blowout. It was 32- up a turnaround jarnpen when n iefr
to the outside, bringing most man-to- 31. The Generals offense kept them in his handitlooked good. But the baﬁhit
man defenses, and parts of zones, out to it by shooting 50 percent from the ﬁeld. the front lip of the rim and bounced off .
cover the shooters. The inside then is 13-for-26.81161 3-for-5 from Outside the The Eagles got the rebound and the
theoreticallyinhabited by onlytwo play- 3-point arc. game buzzer sounded,
ers, Miggins and his defender. “The problem with Bridgewater,” “we were looking ro go inside re

The new scheme was introduced to Miggins said, “we gave them wide- Robert [Miggins],”Canfieldsaid.“But
the home crowd last Saturday against open shots. They were working their we just didn’t do it,"

Bridgewater. The Generals lost there, screens real well, and we didn’t play The loss, the Generals third by 31110
too. But it wasn’tthe offense that broke good team defense. points or less, dropped their season.
down, it was the defense. “We need to talk more and call out record to 4-11, 2-8 in rhe old Dornin-

Miggins seems to think the new screens. We’re going to work a lot on ion Athletic Conference, I
game-plan is working. it,” he Said. Still, Miggins says the team is con-

“It’s something we’ve been work- So why was the final score only 62-
mg on,” Miggins said. “With the four 60, with the Generals having a shot to D 399 FRUSTRAHON. Page 9

O

Invitational meet demonstrates
W&L wrestling team’s capabilities

9

By SEAN O’RoURi<£
Phi Sports Editor

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

    

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi’ Staff Writer

Last weekend’s W&L Ir1vita-
tional showed wrestling coach
Gary Franke what his team is
capable of when they are at full
strength. The Generals took fifth
place in the tournament, and
placed in four of the ten possible
weight classes. The fourth-place
finish was the team’s best at the
tournament since 1989-90.

Longwood took the team title
for the second straight year, and
La Salle’s Chris Shalbert, the
126-pound champion, was the
toumament’s Outstanding Wres-
tler.

Sophomores Eric Shirley and
Adam Williams, and freshman

Owen Smith all advanced to the
finals in the 134, 142, and 158-
pound weight classes. None of
them were able to topple their
opponents, and each had to settle
for second. Freshman Rob Sands
took third at 126-pounds.

The tournament format al-
lowed Franke to give non-start-
ing wrestlers a chance to see ac-
tion. Freshman Rob DeClerk,
sophomore Kevin Batteh, and Bo
King all participated in a non-
scoring capacity forW&L, wres-
tling at weight classes for which
other teams had no competitor.

With Sands, Shirley, Wil-
liarns, and Smith all placing in
the middle weight classes, the
Generals still lack the depth
throughout their line-up which is

necessary to be able to compete

. with the stronger programs on

their schedule.

Coach Franke addressed the

Generals’ need for a deeper line-
up.
“We placed four kids out of
ten spots, if you’re going to win
that tournament [W&L Invita-
tional], you need seven or eight
places.”

Despite the apparent lack of
balance, sophomore Lea
Abercrombie finished fifth at
167-pounds, and freshman new-
comer Colin Looney continued
to show his worth to the team, as
he finished fifth as well in the
190-pound weight class.

Franke looks to find the best
combination to shore up the holes

at 177-pounds and heavyweight.

The Generals look to find
some answers this weekend in at
a tournament hosted by Gallaudet
of Washington, D.C. Gallaudet
recently defeated a Newport

News Apprentice team who '

hounded the Generals on Dec. 9,
52-6.

Franke expects his team to be
competitive with Gallaudet. The
Generals were going through a
rough stretch of their season
when they took on Newport. The
team was without Looney or Matt
McCollum, and they were be-
sieged by a rash of injuries.

York and Rutgers-Newark
will also compete at the touma-
ment. York enters as the favorite
to win the whole tournament.

  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum.Ph/'

Freshman Rob Sands (top) earns points aftera takedown during a match against a VMI
Keydet. Sands has turned in an outstanding rookie season by winning 1 2 of his 18 '
matches at 126-pou nds. Sands earned a victory In a consolation final during the W&L
Invitational. He is one of only three Generals to have an above .500 record this season.
He has proven that his early season success was no ﬂuke.

O

-./72razm7€zo$o 

We’ll make you look good!

Come to us for all of your design needs.

   

Alone Mill Apts.

Call today for an appointment to
discuss your Fancy Dress gown.
Professional seamstress with
years of experience.

Betty Wilson
463-4431

Counselors for residential summer program at
UVA for gifted students. June 20 toA . 7.
State of ' ia a lication form req. giease
refer to Job L Ql6AB when applying.
A cations must be received by 5 pm. on

rdi 1. A ly to: Univ. of Virginia,
of Human esouroes, 914 Emmet St.,
Box 9(X)7, Charlottesville, VA 22906. For

more information all (804) 924-31 82.EEO/A

   
       
     
     
   
   
       
       
     
     
       
       
     

Dance Class for FD

7-8 p.m. & 8-9 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge on Feb. 3rd.
(Frank Rupus - Helping stundents get ready for FD For over 10 years!)

$5.00 per person, Pay 1 hour, stay 2! '—

Ads, ﬂyers, logos, résumés, faxes, and quick copies.

3 PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX #: 463 -6918 Q
125 w. NELSON sr. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM 1111; POST OFFICE

 

Five miles from Lexington on
Maury River. Rt. 622 off Rt. 39.
Three one bedroom a ts. Decks overlook river.
$260 per month, 260 security deposit.
Call 377-2355 day, 377-2977 night.

Student Housing For Rent
Houses within city limits:
107 _McLaughlin - $800 for four students
Houses in the county:

1 0
Rt. 39 - 1 mile off Rt. 11 - $800 for four students
Mt. Vista - 3 miles west on Rt. 60 - $900 for ﬁve students , HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS
Turkey Hill - Rt. 602 off Rt. 631 - 4 miles from town J€W61fy & Watch r6Pa1I‘S, Eng1”aV1I1g
$600 per month for three students or Apartment fOI‘ Rent STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT
$800 per month for four students _
Duplex apamnents; 605 Allen St A & B Catering to W&L Students - Two Bedroom apartment 11 w_ Nelson Street Robby Jonegi

for rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk
from the W&L campus. $150 per month, per bedroom. .
$300 per month for the unit.
- Great Location
- Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet

_ _ Valley 7/aw?/‘ date
- Landlord pays for water, including hot water -

- Available begining February 15, 1993 9
If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown, at 463-301 Hardware Paint and Related Items
1

2 Bedrooms $325.00 each apartment (703) 4533022

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

1-800-966-4263

Call free for group rates & info

E. Nelson St., Lexington

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.

 

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186»

VARNER & POLE

115 S. Main St., Lexington

For your extra pieces of furniture

Fumlture Dealers

463-2742 ’

ADMISSIONS COUNSELOR

The W&L Admissions Oﬁice is now accepting applications

for an anticipated Admissions Counselor position. All interested

graduating senior should submit a cover letter and resume no
later than Monday, March 1, 1993 to:

1 Julia M. Kozak
Associate Director of Admissions
Office of Admissions 3

 

 

