FEB 2 6 ‘1993
THE UNl\/ERFEETY LIERARY
WASHlN£‘iT'Or: a LEE uitzt/ERSITY
~L£~;X4u‘£<3TOi\i, VA 24450

(' ELEBRATING I HE SILVER

Fancy Dress '93 Pays Tribute
To Hollywood

CREEN

 te Special Supplement

  U112 ﬂing-

ttm lﬂlii

  
   
 
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   

_ VOLUME 92, NO. 19

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee
Monday voted to put constitu-
tiQnal amendments on the class
elections ballot and also amended
the White Book to establish a
process for future changes.

The EC voted to put proposed
constitutional amendments on the
same ballot as the March 22 class
ebctions.

For the amendments to pass,
half of the student body must
I vote, and two-thirds of the voters
must vote for the amendments.
In the 1990-91 school year, con-
stitutional amendments failed be-
cqise of poor voter turnout.
Cathryn Lopiccolo and Rich-
ard Peltz, executive editors of
The Ring—tum Phi, proposed the
amendments on Jan. 25. In a writ-
ten statement to the EC,
Lopiccolo and Peltz said the pro-
sal is an effort to bring the
constitution up to date with the
student government.

A proposed amendment that
deﬁnes executive session as any
“session of the EC that is closed
to the public” and outlines when
the EC may go into executive
scgsion received the most debate.
Discussion about the proposed
amendments centered on the con-
stitutionality of the EC’s pro-
posed Skylark retreat, which will
be closed to the public.
Lopiccolo and Peltz said the
Slylark meeting is unconstitu-
tional.

The EC maintains the meet-
ing does not break the constitu-
tion and will not jeopardize stu-

 Beneﬁt
raises
$27,800

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

W&L’s 15th annual
Superdance raised $27,800 for
the Muscular Dystrophy Asso-
ciation, organizers said this week.
The event drew 750 specta-
tors and 50 students who danced
for donations.

A large percentage of the
nyiney donated came from Wash-
ington and Lee’s fraternities, ad-
visor Fontaine Bostic said.
“If it wasn’t for the fratemi-
ties, we wouldn’t have much suc-
cess,” Bostic said. “The fratemi-
ties support us 100 percent.”
. Bostic said Phi Delta Theta
was the top fraternity money-
raiser with almost $2,000. Chi
Omega raised $750, making it
the top sorority.
Fifty dancers took pledges to
raise money, one-third the num-
ber from last year, Bostic said.
But, Bostic said, “admission
was way up, so it made up for the
low number of dancers.”
“Last year no one was there. It
was night and day as far as atten-
dance,” Superdance Co-chair-
man Betsy Kleiner said.
‘ Of the dancers, freshman Eric
Sproul raised the most money
with $142.
Bostic also noted that the Stu-
dent Telephone Union donated
S l ,000 and Superdance commit-
tee members contributed $250.
9 In the Battle of the Bands, the
Haring Holmes acoustic act, fea-
turing senior Fred Haring and
junior Chris Holmes, won the
first place prize of $300.
Holmes was also amember of
we second place act, Hignon the
dog, with senior John Givens.
Unlike the Lip Synch in Janu-
ary, there were no problems with
people sneaking in without pay-
iiig. '
“Two people actually gave me
,‘ checks because their girlfriends
Ag». in without paying,” Kleincr
I

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

EC sets date
for referendum

dent involvement in government.

Peltz said the EC currently
breaks the constitution when it
enters executive session for com-
mittee appointments and delib-
erations. The new amendment
would make the deliberations
constitutional.

EC President Josh
MacFarland said the proposed
amendment is an improvement
on the current one, which states,
“The Executive Committee shall
not go into executive session ex-
cept in the case of possible honor
violations.”

Peltz and Lopiccolo said they
were pleased with the meeting.

“The EC had some wise in-
sights in our meetings, and we’re
very happy with the proposals
going to referendum,” Peltz said.

But Peltz said the tough work
will be to draw a large enough
turnout in elections.

“The key now will be getting
students to vote,” Peltz said.
“We’re going to need at least as
many voters to turn out as did for
the Big Four, just to validate the
referendum.”

The additions to the White
Book passed Monday outline the
procedure the EC must use to
amend the White Book and es-
tablish a nine-person committee
to review the Honor System ev-
ery three years.

The new process mandates

that none of the committee mem-—

bers be acting EC members.

The EC passed the proposal
unanimously.

“I like the proposal,”
MacFarland said. ‘‘It’s pretty
much on par with what I ex-
pected.”

  

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

IFC wrestles
with Flush plan

Photo by Amy French The “Rig-tum Phi

Faye Wattleton tells her audience, “One person makes a difference."

Wattleton

urges

reproductive rights

By MOLLY AFTER
Phi Staff Writer

It doesn’t take a large groups to have
inﬂuence and impact on politics, former
Planned Parenthood Federation President
Faye Wattleton said Wednesday.

“One person makes a difference,”
Wattleton told a Lee Chapel audience
Wednesday, “if that person is single-
minded and will not accept a compromise
or a brush-off.”

iWatvt-leton spoke as part ofthe

1. university’s celebration of Black History

Month. Her visit was sponsored by the
Black Law Students’ Association,
Women’s Forum, the Panhellenic Coun-
cil and Contact.

The govemment shouldn’t have the
right to invade a woman’s reproductive

privacy, Wattleton said. However, she
said, the govemment’s denial of repro-
ductive freedom to women is only a symp-
tom of a more serious illness.

Wattleton said that everyone must look
at the bi gger picture.

“When any group is denied it’s rights,
society suffers,” Wattleton said.

Winning true reproductive freedom is
an important first step in guaranteeing
fundamental rights to everyone, Wattleton
said. She said reproductive freedom can
only be achieved through the passage of
the Freedom of Choice-Act-.~ ~ ~ V

The number of women recently elected
to Congress should not lull women into
complacency, Wattleton said.

“Getting the right people elected is
only the beginning,” Wattleton said. “Get-
ting them to do the right thing is adifferent
story.”

 

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

After much consideration, the IFC and
the Student Affairs Committee are still
trying to formulate a rush proposal that
will be acceptable to both groups.

Last month, the Interfratemity Coun-
cil proposed a tentative Rush plan to SAC.
The rough draft includes an open contact
period prior to Rush, fewer Rush dates,
and amore severe penalty sys-
tem for Rush violations.

But the IFC has yet to
present a formal proposal to
its members.

At Tuesday’ s IFC meeting,
Delta Tau Delta, which has
been suspended for the year,
presented their own Rush pro-
posal. Their proposal includes
pledge class ceilings and 16
mandatory open houses.

Neither pledge class ceil-
ings or additional open houses
are part of the present IFC
proposal.

“From my understanding, the IFC’s
proposal as it stands now is not acceptable
to SAC and will not be approved by the
faculty,” Delt President Patrick McCabe
said. “The proposal doesn’t work to solve
the problems of the current process. I
believe the problems are the severe ﬂue-
tuations in pledge class sizes and the
record number of depledging because of
a lack of information.” .

According to IFC Vice President Tom
Washmon, a proposal requires two con-
secutive votes in IFC meetings to pass.
The first vote on the IFC proposal is
expected to take place next Tuesday.

If the IFC passes the proposal, it will
then be presented to SAC. SAC will then

 

Washmon

FEBRUARY 25, 1993

accept, reject or make recommendations.
If SAC accepts the proposal, the proposal
is subject to faculty approval. If SAC does
not accept it, the proposal will go back to
the IFC for revision.

Since the president of the IFC serves
on SAC, it would be unlikely for a pro-
posal to be made that the IFC did not
approve as well, Associate Dean of Stu-
dents for Greek Affairs Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said.

McCabe explained the reasoning be-
hind Delt’s efforts in a letter to Dean of
Students David Howison.

In the letter, McCabe noted
that one half of this year’s
pledges joined one of ﬁve fra-
temities.

“A slightly extended pe-
riod of Rush, accompanied by
the separation of social and
formal aspects, and the limit-
ing of social expenditures
would allow ample time for
rushees to see the fraternity
members in various settings,"
McCabe said.

Both Howison and Atkins said that
something should be done about the wide
range of pledge class sizes.

“One element of Delt’s plan is an im-
portant issue and that is ﬁnding a way for
the IFC to create equal distribution be-
tween fraternities, ” Howison said. “Delt
is doing the right thing by presenting its
proposal to the IFC, so the IFC can con-
sider incorporating it in its proposal.”

But Washmon said the IFC is wary of
Delt’s plan.

“Delts have no vote on the proposal
[because they have been suspended] and
are one house out of 16,” Washmon said.
“As much as we’d like to appease them,

U see RUSH, page 6

 

    

How to win friends and make millions

Photo by Patrick McCabe

H.F. “Gerry" Lenfest, '53, speaksto the Media Law Forum Feb. 11 . Lenfest told of how
he went from being a corporate lawyer to editor and pubisher of Seventeen magazine
to head of Suburban Cable. Lenfest said his liberal arts and law education taught him
“how to think" and allowed him to excel in different areas.

‘Foreign Student’ definite,
moved to first week of May

By MOLLY AFTER

Phi Staff Writer

“We could not accommodate [the ﬁlm crew],”
Shaw said. “Also, the hotels in town will all be
booked beginning [Thursday, May 6].”

lt’s ofﬁcial. “The Foreign Student” will be shot
at Washington and Lee this spring, but the filming
will take place in May, not March.

W&L Director,of Communications Brian Shaw
said that because the movie takes place in the fall,
the ﬁlm crew decided early March foliage would
be inappropriate. Shaw said the production com-
pany, Cathargo Films, decided that May footage

would be more suitable.

Shaw said he cleared the new production dates
of May 3, 4 and 5 with Buildings and Grounds,
Security and university President John D. Wilson.

Though the shooting would finish Wednesday,
May 5 and Alumni Weekend begins the next day,
Shaw said he does not anticipate a conflict.

But the weather could be a problem. The film
crew allotted three days for filming without allow-
ing for inclement weather, Shaw said, and Alumni
Weekend would make it impossible to push ﬁlm-

ing back a day.

Shaw said the producers say rain won’t be a
problem because much of the ﬁlming will be done
inside.

“They only need a day or a day and a half that is
clear to sho9t outside,” Shaw said. “The rest will be
[shot] in Lee Chapel and the old pool.”

The majority of the movie will be ﬁlmed in
Richmond, Shaw said.

The new ﬁlming dates might increase the chances
of a visit by Phillipe Labro, author of the novel
“The Foreign Student.” The movie touches on
Labro’s experiences as an exchange student at
W&L in the 1950s.

“[Labro] will be speaking April 29 to the [W&L]
alumni chapter in New York,” Shaw said. “So,
he’ll be in the country that week.”

Shaw said he hopes to turn the filming into an
educational experience for W&L students.

“I’m working on getting the director and pro-
ducer up here this term for a lecture on both the film
and filmmaking in general,” Shaw said.

Phones,
Dorms to get

I new system

From the W&L News Office

Beginning in September, stu-
dents who live on campus will
have a new telephone system
whichuniversityofﬁcials say will
provide students with enhanced
capabilities and will save money.

“The system will-allow stu-
dents in their dorm rooms to gain
access to most of the university's
computer resources, such as
Annie and Liberty, while provid-
ing all the features of the most
modern telephone services” Dean
of Freshmen and Residence Life
Dennis Manning said.

With the new system, all uni-
versity housing will be wired for
telephone, computer networking
and cable service, Manning said.
Each fraternity house will ini-
tiallybeprovided with twophone
lines connected to the system.

The system was approved by
the Board of Trustees at its Feb-
ruary meeting.

The system will include voice
mail, Manning said, eliminating
the need for answering machines
in the dorms.

Each student will have a code
they will use when making long-
distance calls, Manning said, so
there will be a clear record of
who made each call. Bills for
long distance use can be sent to
students or to their parents.

Students with a computer will
be able to tap into the university
computer system by purchasing
an inexpensive conversion kit,
Manning said.

The cost of the new system,
$22 per month, will be incorpo-
rated into the on-campus hous-
ing rates, Manning said.

He said that since the same
service from Centel costs about
$33 a month, students will save
$11 a month, or $110 over the

10-month academic year. ,

“This is a great deal for the
students,” Manning said. “It gives
them better service at a reduced
price. It really is a win—win situ-
ation.”

phones,phones

Photo by Richard Peltz, The Ring-tuh/

Security director Mike Young activates a new call box.

Security installs call boxes

By RICHARD PELTZ
Phi Executive Editor

Security has added three new
emergency call boxes to campus.

The boxes are located under
blue lights in the Corral across
from Phi Kappa Sigma,.in the
Piney Woods law student park-
ing lot and on a low wall behind
the new Davidson Park frater-
nity houses.

Students in need of assistance
can push a blue button on the
orange call box and, while hold-
ing the button down, talk directly
to the security ofﬁcer on duty.

Just pushing the button sends
a message to Security that assis-
tance is needed at the location of
the box calling in.

The boxes are also tamper-
resistant. Tampering with ;i box
prompts it locnll in. but lIlt‘.'lI;l1’lll
at the box It\t‘1IIlUll is .\‘lIt‘llI.

Security Director Mike Young
said the boxes, which cost al-
most $2,000 each, are the best
available.

“These are a whole lot easier
to operate than the phones,”
Young said.

The university already has six
emergency phones, one each at
the Pavilion, freshman parking
lot, the end of the stadium, the
military science building, duPont
Hall and the Graham-Lees
lounge.

Young said the existing
phones get plenty of use, carry-
ing 10-15 calls to Security
weekly. Some ofthe calls are for
routine assistance, and some are
immediate emergencies. he said.

Young saidVirgiiii;iTccli;iiid
Davidson College use will boxes
ofthe sziiiic lirziiid as \\'.i.<liiii;:ioii
and I.t‘t".~‘ llt‘\\‘ lvows, .iii.l iliosc
.\'t‘Ilm\I.\‘ Il.l\‘t‘ _-,',i\ci1 tl‘..'i‘.: '..t\ .\t
.lIVIt‘ i.‘\ l\’\\ \

PAGE 2

    

Glitz ‘ﬁling-tum lﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Rush realities

The Interfratemity Council’s effort to revise the men’s
Rush process has suddenly become very complicated amid confu-
sion over who exactly has the ﬁnal say.

The IFC wants ultimate control over the revisions pro-
cess, and they certainly should be the key player. The IFC is
responsible for amending its own constitution and by-laws, which
set up the Rush process, and the fraternities of course have the
largest stake in Rush.

Meanwhile, Dean Howison, on behalf of the Student
Affairs Committee, is claiming that organization’s right to give
the OK, or not, to any changes in the Rush system. He seems to
believe SAC could even come up with its own revisions and
override the IFC.

So who's right?

While the IFC has grounds to expect that its autonomy in
this matter will be preserved — W&L does pride itself on
autonomous student govemment— the ﬁnal say will, in reality, lie
with the faculty and its SAC designee. That’s not written down
anywhere explicitly, but experience seems to indicate that at least
this generation of faculty sees itself as charged with responsibility
for ultimate oversight of student affairs. For example, the faculty
last year amended the Student Body Constitution with no regard
at all to the formal revisions procedures, changing the Big Three
elections to Big Four by adding the Student Conduct Committee
chairman to the general election roster.

The faculty should not make such intervention into stu-
dent govemment on any regular basis, or autonomous student
government will fast become just another bygone tradition. The
faculty and SAC should hear the IFC and give the fraternities
every chance at self-govemment. Advising the IFC would be ﬁne;
surely, the IFC would listen to anyone’s ideas.

But only if the IFC proposals threaten the continuation of
the fraternity system, or might be detrimental to the university’s
mission as an educational institution, should the faculty exercise
its veto power. Nothing has happened yet to indicate that that is the
case.

Hot pink ’n’ rubber

It’s been said before, don’tlive in Gaines if you don’t have
an afﬁnity for hot pink railings, rubberized staircases and an
institutional atmosphere.

Now administrators are finally addressing some of the
problems.

With Gaines never having been at full occupancy in its
six-year history, Dean of Residence Life Dennis Manning is
checking out why and making some moves to remedy the situa-
tron.

Changing several rooms from doubles to singles is a good
start. Upperclassmen looking for a place to live after having been
in the donns and often after having been in a fraternity house tend

to be looking for something a bit less communal. Whilesthe»
university trriglitrnake less money from one person ina new single“ 3

than two in an old double, much of that lost revenue mi ghtbe made
up by attracting more students to Gaines.

We hope Manning might also give some attention to
atmosphere. Purely physically, the place smells like a nursing
home, making it about as attractive to visit. It’s hard to foster a
sense of community spirit in a place so antiseptic.

We might take some lessons from other schools. In
addition to choosing a different cleaning agent, the place could use
some posters rather than stark, yellow cinder block; some attrac-
tive fumiture rather than red on battleship gray carpet; some
incandescent lights; basically anything that would add more
pleasing colors.

If Dean Marming intends to bring a renaissance to student
thinking about Gaines, we wish him well. He has taken on an
enormous task.

Now if only he could do something about those railings.

Quote of the Week

There’s only one reason we’re really here on earth. That’s to
reproduce. [Otherwise], God could have made it painful, like you
have to cut off your arm and rub the stubs together.

by mere gadget totals v ‘

——Ice—T
@112 iﬂtltg-111111 iﬂltt
Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist. ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whimey Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

hilmile Sex L<.)¢'.l.~$ siclﬁr

O

l"li‘zs  

'¢‘.li‘9‘Q  +0 Show

 

Us  vﬁcavx .

 lﬁtttofer ae   4..
OOQ§’~  More e.e2t.£Ja«r\&
.  9

Unleashed government forces costs up    

WASHINGTON —— At Hyde Park,
where he placed a single red rose on
FDR’s grave, President Clinton la-
mented that for 12 years Republican

cans with Disabilities Act and the 1991
Civil Rights Act. The Clinton admin-
istration already has contributed addi-
tional compliance costs to the burden

  
  

  

presidents tried“to of doing
cramp the role of business:
govemment.” His the Family
im lication was and Medical
thalt) now govem— GEORGE WILL Leave Act.
ment will be un- . A recent
leashed. Well. Washlngtofl Post study by the
His displeasure Writers Group Joint Eco-
should have been nomic Com-
directed also at the mittee of
Founders,who de— Congress
signed the system concluded

of separation of powers—of checks
and balances, of limited and enumer-
ated powers—designed, in part, to
cramp govemment’s role. And during
the 12 “cramping” Republican years,
virtually no govemmentprograms were
terminated, most grew, federal civilian
employment rose (even during the dark-
est years of the Reagan Terror—198l-
l989—it rose 216,000), and federal
outlays rose from $591 billion to $1.5
trillion.

The grandiosity of Clinton’s plans
for government growth can be gauged
by the fact that he considers this a
record of a “cramped” role for govem-
ment. And remember, govemment’s
growth and cost are vastly an erstated

  

There are‘ also ‘all "the""compliarice
costs of such measures as (to take just
three from the Bush era) the amend-
ments to the Clean Air Act, the Ameri-

that just since 1988, new regulations,
including a 27 percent increase in the
minimum wage since 1990 (with an-
other increase planned), raised per-
worker costs for small businesses at
least 33 percent.

It is difficultto calculate, even to the
nearest $100 billion, the annual costs
of all regulations. However, $400 bil-
lion—a sum larger than the federal
deﬁcit—is a conservative estimate. To
be sure, some social beneﬁts do come
from regulations. But who believes we
would choose to purchase all those
benefits if their real prices were promi-
nently ﬁxed to them? And then there
are the costs of the purely pernicious
“diversity” regulations, as enforced by

a governrnenti unfor_tun_a_tely not no- ;

ticeably crarnped"duririg the 1 2 Repub-
lican years. In a stunning article in the
Feb. 15 issue of Forbes magazine, Pe-
ter Brimelow and Leslie Spencer re-

port on the sacrifice of merit hiring to
quotas, and other consequences of this
country’ s exquisitely misnamed “equal
employment laws.” The cost of all
this—a huge hidden tax—may already
have depressed the gross domestic prod-
uctbyfourpercentage points—approxi-
mately what we spend on the entire
public school system.

Today American business is infested
with affirmative action ofﬁcers. These
private sector bureaucrats are busy
implementing racial and sexual dis-
crimination (discriminatory laws) on
behalf of various govemment-approved
minorities (and one majority—women)
known as “protected classes.” The
object is to produce a “balanced” work
force.

Corporations with federal contracts
of more than $50,000—hundreds of
thousands of corporations—must spend
billions of dollars developing affirrna—
tive action plans for achieving payrolls
that reﬂect the composition of the quali-
fied work force. All American em-
ployers with more than 15 employees
come under the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission’s Uniform
Guidelines on Employee Selection Pro-
cedures and can be sued if their work
force “balance” strikes someone as
“wrong.” Brimelow and Spencer re-
port this hair-curling testimony from

Thomas Mag giore, aPhoenix restaura— _

teur: -

“In 1987 EEOC’s local ﬁeld ofﬁce
wrote me a letter saying they had rea-
son to believe I didn’t have enough

women ‘food servers’ and ‘busers.’
No woman had complained agaimt
me. So the EEOC advertised” in the
local paper to tell women whose job
applications we had rejected—or even
women who had just thought of apply-
ing——that they could be entitled to dam-
ages. Twenty-seven women became
plaintiffs in a lawsuit against me. e
EEOC interviewed me for hours to ﬁ d
our what kind of person I was  I

supplied them with hundreds of pounds .

of paper. I had to hire someone full
time for a year just to respond to EEOC
demands. Six months ago I finally
settled. I agreed to pay $150,000 
damages, and as jobs open up, to hire
the women on the EEOC’s list  I
have to advertise twice a year even if I
have no openings, just to add possible
female employees to my files. I also
had to hire an EEOC-approved person
to teach my staff how not to discrimi-
nate. I employ 12 food servers in these

two restaurants. Gross sales around $2 ‘

million. How much did it all cost me?
Cash outlay, about $400,000.”
Maggiore’s ordeal is but one of many
comparable outrages that occurred dur-
ing the 12 years when Republicans had
government on what Clinton conside9s
too short a leash. Imagine, if you can,
how much more omnipresent, ofﬁcious,
intrusive, bullying and expensive gov-
ernment will be new that it is staffed
and directed by people who, like the
president, think government's role has
been too “cramped.” 0
© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

Clinton, Republicans must seize the day

WASHINGTON —— Arthur Schlesinger Jr. once
predicted that the early ’90s would see a “sharp
change in the national mood comparable to those
bursts in innovation and reform” in the presidencies

of Theodore Roosevelt, FDR
and John F. Kennedy.

the federal deﬁcit.

Noting the arrival of ac-
tivist government in 30-year
cycles, the great historian
went further. He saw, with
exquisite precision, the age
and experience of the admin-
istration that would mark the
ascendance to power of“those
young men and women who

came of political age in the Kennedy years.”

On Feb. 17, the American people saw Schlesinger’s
prophesy spring to life. President Bill Clinton, age 46
and a Jack Kennedy disciple to his toes, presented the
country with anational economic program that braced
the ruling Democrats, cheered the typical TV viewer,
and left even the young president’s critics stunned by

his audacity.

But if this is to be the great moment of national
“change” that Schlesinger predicted and Clinton
demands, it will take more than a blowout speech in
February or apartisan knockout when the president’s
package comes to a vote on the ﬂoor of Congress.

No. What’s needed is a consensus, one shared by
Republicans and conservative Democrats, as well as
Clintonites, that the time has truly come for this great

country of ours to get off the dime.

For such a consensus to be joined, those on the
right need to admit that, for all their problems with
the Clinton plan, at least this president had the guts to
act. For their part, those on the left need to admit that,

 
  
   

CHRISTOPHER
MATTHEWS

Tribune Media
Services

siveness.

chunk in domestic cuts

ink.

for all their love of new programs, best possible
economic development program for today’s and
tomorrow's America is a gigantic, genuine chop in

can live with this modest phase-
down from a defense budget de-
signed to match a Soviet Union at
the height of its power and aggres-

2. DOMESTIC SPENDING

Clinton has proposed domestic
budget cuts that would reach $62
billion by 1998. But unlike the
Pentagon cuts, this $62 billion

yield an equal drop in federal red
Why? Because Clinton & Co.,

plans to hike federal spending in
other areas $45 billion by 1998.

programs, the Democrats to peel back their 0
demands for new federal spending. Otherwise, go - ‘
emment borrowing will continue to crowd out pri-

vate investment, leaving business and the consumer

Clearly, Clinton deserves an “A” for audacity

Here’s how it could be both starved for credit.
done: 3. TAXES

1.DEFENSE SPEND-
ING

No problem here. Un-
der Clinton’s proposal,
Pentagon spending would
drop from $294 billion in
the coming year to $253
billion in 1998. Both Re-
publicans and Democrats

crats,

will not

dime.

What’s needed is a
consensus, one shared
by Republicans and
conservative Demo-
as well as
Clintonites, that the
time has truly come
for this great country
of ours to get off the

here. He had the nerve, which two conservative
presidents did not, to tell the American people the
facts of ﬁscal life.

Most important, he has opened the door to neces-
sary compromise. When the president mentioned his
proposal to increase the taxation of Social Security
beneﬁts for those retirees making $25,000 and above,
there was not a single clap in the house. That should

tell him something.

The solution is apparent.

Clinton said Wednesday
evening that the country “must
break the habits of both political
parties and say there can be no
more something for nothing, and
admit frankly that we are all Hi
this together.”

It could not be said more
plainly. The president and Con-
gress, Democrats and Republi-
cans alike, need to forge an eco-
nomic program that includes
more spending cuts -— inclu0
ingcutbacksinsomeofClinton’s

The net result is that the total saved

on domestic programs is just $17 billion —- not a

huge amount given the size of the federal budget.
The country can do better. The solution is for

Republicans to propose additional cuts in existing

pet projects and fewer tax hikes.

If they succeed, they will achieve ahistoric uptick not
just in the national “mood” that Arthur Schlesinger
predicted but one in the national outlook as well.

© 1993, Tribune Media Services

Clinton administration appears clueless

MY VIEW
By Paul Wright, ’95

President Bill Clinton has continu-
ously proposed change, a new direc-
tion for America and a new life for
Americans, but he has yet to show any
evidence that he will be capable of any
signiﬁcant change beyond substituting
the Colorado Precision Lawn Chair
Team for the traditional Culber Horse
Team at Inauguration. The president
and his Democratic Leadership Coun-
cil have pledged to the American people
that the new administration will bring
an end to traditional politics. That is,
they have promised to cease the inces-
sant bureaucratic power game and the
sub—cultures which accompany the ex-
panding and increasingly impotent
government. This idea is extremely
noble and admirable but rather unat-
tainable. In order to alter a system, the
persons involved must have a clear

understanding and working knowledge
of all the working parts of the whole.
Recent events exemplify the fact that
the new leaders do not possess the
necessary collective knowledge to pro-
vide the American people with their
needs. Appointment ﬁascoes, Penta-
gon disputes, Congressional battles,
and economic reversals are evidence
that the new leaders cannot produce the
effects which the nation gave them the
opportunity to bring. ‘

I make no claim that a Republican
president could inherently guarantee
his Senate appointments, for history
has shown us that this is deﬁnitely not
the case. I do, however, offer the argu-
ment that the Democrats led the major-
ity of the past appointment blockades
by trying to ﬁt every prospective into
infamous “Tower standards.” An ide-
alist and inefficient schedule of de-
mands designed to impede the progres-
sion of govemmenl or, more specifi-
cally, Republican govcrninenl with

needless personal attacks. With this
idea in mind, it is evident that the
opposing party usually assumes the
lead in rejection proceedings, but the
Zoe Baird appointment hearing broke
the mold.

The Republicans have been delib-
erately allowing appointments to pass
without undue harassment because they
are anxious to see the government start
acting its “magic.” Zoe Baird had
received this treatment with a comple-
mentary endorsement by Senator Orrin
G. Hatch of Utah but suffered the first
blows of rejection at the hands of Ralph
Nader of the Democratic left wing when
he labeled the lawyer an “anti-con-
sumer tool of corporate interest.” Fol-
lowing the Nader attack, the public
found Baird to be a rich, liberal social-
ite living in a fancy New Haven, Conn..
with a chauffeur-driven car and the
memberofanciglrlxniiootlzissocintimr
lfying l()l1l0(‘l\ ll(\llSllll[ for punt kills

ll .\‘('t‘lll.\' that mvlvml\ lll the ruin.-

transition team knew the political game
well enough to see the potential public
fury that would develop from the a
pointrnent of a “rich lawyer who broke
the law to save a few pennies.” In my
opinion, President Clinton should re-
member the 43 percent of America
who like them and try to “retain the
populist style that got him elected.”
Admittedly, difficulty in Senar

appointment hearings is not a perfect
measure of government ignorance. I
think we should examine the relation-
ship that the Commander-in-Chief is
establishing with his vast troops and
the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Because of
President Clinton’s wish to allow l10-
mosexuals in the armed forces. man. J
of the top military officials h;r\'c im-
plied that they may resign. In ntldition.
The New York 'l‘iincs of Jan. .‘.N re
ported that (icircrnl (‘elm ll l‘om-ll,
llt‘.ltl Hi‘ lltt‘ lmnl (‘lll(‘l.\' oi .\".:l'.'., t"\

.152» N1 W, image 

 

O

V Theﬁing-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

  
  
      
   

iSr>0s’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

‘Some weeks ago, Spos was engaging in the time-
‘honored tradition of watching television at 3:30 in
the morning after drinking beer with one’s fraternity
, brothers. In strict accordance with The Local Cable
‘tAdvertising Act of 1991, which states that anyone
with an extra five bucks can advertise on cable when
m t sane people are asleep, the el-cheapo local
commercials hit the screen. I payed attention.

“Approximately 60 quintillion pets are destroyed
each year,” said the ugly woman on the TV, “most of
which could have been spared if burns like you had
given them a good home.”

At least, this is what I think she said, but I was
dru k. In that tipsy, emotionally-amplified state that
24 udweisers tend to put one in, I immediately
began to feel remorse for EACH AND EVERY ONE
OFTHOSE POOR, WHIMPERING PUPPIES AND
KITTENS THAT ARE DESTROYED EVERY
DAY. I expressed my alcohol—enhanced emotions
by immediately falling to the ﬂoor, screaming some-
thing about Old Yeller and curling up under the
coﬂee table, sucking my thumb. Alcoholic bever-

ages can truly wreak havoc on one’s psyche.

The next morning, after wiping the party muck
off of my clothes with an old Playboy, I headed to the
local pet store, determined to “make a difference in

‘ apet’s life.”

inking to spend perhaps 30 bucks on a bunch of
gel fish or something, Spos entered the pet store and
began to browse through the many and varied pets
within. There were dogs, cats and hamsters, as one

would expect from a pet store. In addition, this
particular pet store had several exotic pets, including
a big snake that looked as if it had recently swallowed
several large rodents (they didn’t say HOW they
destroyed those 60 quintillion pets, did they?) and a
colorful bird that seemed to want to talk to everyone
in the store except me. ' .

After browsing some more, Spos decided to pur-
chase a tropical aquarium. l’ll say it again —
“tropical aquarium.” The words seem to roll off of
the tongue with a certain degree of eloquence, be-
traying the fact that they are merely a euphemism for
“fish 

Sounds simple, right? Well, according to the lady
at the pet store, you can’t just buy a fish tank and add
water and fish. You have to buy a filter, gravel, light,
fish tank hood, and several other things that jack up
the price of a “tropical aquarium” to about 150 bucks.
And I hadn’t even bought the fish yet.

After returning to Spos Central Command, I set
up the tank on my dresser and added the water and
starter chemicals. It was a deceptively complex op-
eration. After allowing the environment to settle
for 24 hours, Iretumed to the pet store to purchase my
fish.

Spos decided to purchase four rainbow tetras and
three black tetras. Rainbow tetras are cool. They look
like what you would expect Don Johnson to look like
if he was suddenly transformed into a tiny fish. They
are pastel—colored and have this mean—spirited look
about them, almost as if they have spent the past few
years killing dmg dealersin Miami. Blacktetras look
almost like rainbow tetras, except that they have
black stripes.I placed them in my fish tank and fed
them for the first time in theirnew home. I named the

OPINION

Fish’s fatal fiasco opens Spos’ eyes

PAGE 3

pastel—colored ones after yuppie mail-order catalogs.
I could have sworn that they looked happy. Unfortu-
nately, by the following morning all seven were stone
dead.

Fortunately for Spos, the pet store had a 24-hour
guarantee. The kind folks at the pet store were true to
their word and furnished me with seven new fish, free
of charge. They were especiallycivil about the whole
situation, considering that Spos had already sent
seven of the little critters to meet their maker.

What happened next made Spos contemplate call-
ing the Guinness Book of World Records and asking
what the record was for most tropical fish killed
within a 48-hour period. I put the fish in the tank, as
per the directions the pet store lady gave me. Twenty
minutes later, all seven had expired again, leaving
Spos with suspicion as to what was in his tank water.

The next day, Spos brought a sample of tank water
to the nice lady at the pet store to have it tested. The
tests revealed lethal levels of chemicals in the water
that suspiciously corresponded to the levels one would
get if one’s fraternity brothers were to sneak into the
room late at night in order to see how fish can swim
in a beer/water solution. In other words, I was back
to square one.

I repeated the pet store lady’s instructions, this
time using store—bought distilled water. The pet store
was kind enough to once again supply Spos with new
f ish. These new fish have survived to present day. (I
am knocking on wood, even as I write this.)

This story has several morals:

1) Never watch TV under the inﬂuence of alcohol.

2) If you feel the need to purchase a pet, buy a dog.

3) If you already have a pet, odds are that several
fraternity males have tried to feed it beer.

Clinton government teeters on edge of trouble

Cl IQEW, from page 2

plicitly informed the Commander the
“homosexuals will wreck morale and
discipline, undermine recruiting, force
devoutly religious service members to
resign, and increase the risk of AIDS to
heteaosexual troops.” In other words,
the Commander—in—Chief could single-
handedly decimate the backbone of
‘ armed forces if he allows gays into the
organization. I should explain that in
theory President Clinton could deci-
lnate the backbone because the fact
.;£"e ins that he does not have the po-
V itic‘al power to issue the order without
Congress overturning him. Defense
Secretary Les Aspin stated in a memo
to the president that the majority of
Congress would oppose any measure
to lift the homosexual ban, and, in fact,

Clinton would receive a maximum of
only thirty votes in favor of the pro-
posal in the Senate.

Aspin’s belief that the president is
not powerful enough to successfully
issue an executive order without Con-
gress slapping him is evident in the
following quote from his memo: “The
challenge at this point is no longer
ending discrimination. Instead, the
challenge is to prevent the Congress
from overturning a new policy.” This
quote gives direct evidence, albeit dis-
turbing, that our new president must
abandon the underlying morality of his
actions in favor of saving face in front
of a Congress that does not seem to
respect him, or his policies.

Earlier I stated, in a quote from The
New York Times, that PresidentClinton
needs to return to the populist form and

rhetoric of Candidate Clinton that got
him elected.

A tremendous part of this populist
appeal found its strength in the eco-
nomic plight of many Americans. In
response to their cries, Candidate
Clinton promised middle class tax cuts,
deﬁcit shrinkage, and a complete eco-
nomic plan to present to the nation by
Inauguration Day. Instead of announc-
ing his four or five year plan, he sends
his Secretary of Treasury, Lloyd
Bentsen, to announce that there will be
a consumption tax on all forms of en-
ergy, which will weigh heaviest on the
middle class, and couples this state-
ment with the declaration that there
will be no middle class tax cuts as
Candidate Clinton had promised.

Maybe we should bind Clinton by
the Honor System and have the Execu-

-I

tive Committee oversee his actions
because, right now, he needs guidance,
and his novice organization is not do-
ing the job.

There is a terrible discrepancy be-
tween President Clinton and Candi-
date Clinton, which needs to be recti-
fied. Perhaps he should reinstate his
campaign strategists James Carville and
Paul Begala because they must be po-
litical geniuses if they could entice
that 43 percent to accept this adminis-
tration. In his Inaugural Speech, Clinton
told us that “this is our time, let us
embrace it.” Well, Iam going to do my
best to embrace something and hold on
for dear life until effective and experi-
enced leadership comes into power.

Paul Wright is press correspondent
and spokesman for the Washington and
Lee College Republicans

to the Editor:
Eter seeing the cartoon of President Wilson asking the
vy of Payne Hall how itfeels about the new Watson Gallery,
, am amazed at the attitudes of students regarding the
atson Gallery. I realize that this cartoon was done only in
est of the falling ivy, but I believe that it only too well
xpresses feelings which many have. I cherish the Colon-
iadeias much as any other student, and I have been called a
3ropQnent of the status quo, but even I cannotunderstand the
:riticism of this building.
No one likes having the noise and bother of dealing with
tonstruction on campus, but the long term good of this
uilding should more than outweigh this slight disturbance.
1 will not destroy our Colonnade, but will add a resource
hich no other campus in the nation can possibly equal, the
inesﬁcollection of Chinese porcelain.
We consider ourselves one of the best universities in the
ation, and I firmly agree with trying to improve ourselves
(I the college as a whole. Anyone who has seen Harvard
r Yale, some of the most acclaimed centers of learning in
' e nation, can testify that these universities have museums
-vith some of the most famous collections of artwork, books,
to. ,Omown.
These add depth to a school, making it more than just a

to college to not just spend time in the classroom, but to 7

expand ourselves through experiencing new things, be they
concerts, lectures, or even Chinese porcelain. I do not want
Washington and Lee to turn into another Ivy League school,
just to try to achieve standards of all—around education set by
such schools.

At first I too was opposed to this addition to our campus.
Yet this land was used for little else than crossing from
building to building. The Watson Gallery is appropriately
placed because it will become an intricate part of our
campus, something that students, faculty, and visitors will
be able to experience. We should look on this as not giving
up patch of grass, but as a new place to learn and enrich
ourselves.

Someone once told me that a university where there is
construction is a healthy one. For while it may not be
attractive, it means that there are interests in the future of the
school and that alumni and others actively support their
alma mater. I believe that Washington and Lee is one of the
best universities in the nation. This is due to people, like
Mrs. Watson, who out of the goodness of their hearts are
willing to try to better this institution. I just hope that people
will stop trying to see how this hurts us, and instead will look
to the future and see how this makes us a better university.

   

wants you

Dear Sophomores and Juniors:

As President of Kathekon, I invite
you to fill out an application to join our
organization. Formed in 1984 by the
Alumni House, Kathekon members are
considered alumni-in-residence and
work to better student-alumni relations.
We are involved with many projects
over the course of the school year. We
start by sponsoring a barbeque for
Freshmen during orientation and end
by helping events run smoothly for
Alumni Weekend.

Every year at this time we conduct
interviews looking for dedicated,
hardworking individuals. We are ask-
ing everyone interested, regardless of
affiliation to sign up. Our group con-
sists of only 28 members. In the past
we have had 90 to 100 applications to
interview for only 14 spots. However,
you should not let this be a deterrent. If

lace where one sits in a classroom and learns. Learning

xtends beyond the classroom. With this in mind we come

_.I

terviews and Photos
y Darran Winslow
I

Sean Johnson, ’95

you are committed and sincere about
joining us, I urge you to sign up.

Tom Hooper '93

TALKBACK

Republicans

There will be a College Repub-
licans meeting March 2 at 7:30
p.m. in the Mock Convention of-
free. The debate topic will be pri-
vate enterprise. I

RACASA

Windfall, a folk music group
from the Shenandoah Valley, will
perform a beneﬁt concert for the
Blue Ridge Sexual Assault Center
Saturday, Feb. 27 at 8 p.m. at Mary
Baldwin College in Staunton, Va.
For additional information, call
703-885-7273.

Democrats

There will be an important Col-
lege Democrats meeting Sunday,
Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in the game room.
Officer elections will be held.

FD

The gym will be open during
the day on, March 5 so people may
see the completed decorations be-
fore the ball begins.

CD&P

The Career Development and
Placement Ofﬁce is pleased to an-
nounce that Tina Hand, ’95, and
Molly Saunders, ’95, are lucky
winners of a lovely ﬂamingo from
the Summer Opportunities Day.
The ﬂamingos are fine examples
of collectable art and are quickly
becomingaW&L tradition. Bevan
Ovens, ’95, is the winner of the
1993 Internship Directory.

Kathekon

Kathekon, W&L’s student-
alumni association, will accept
applications for membership be-
ginning Feb. 12. Membership is
open to rising juniors and seniors.
Applications will be available at
the Alumni Office and outside

line for applications is March 5.
Sign-upsheets for interviews will
be available in the University Cen-
ter.

Film Society

The W&L Film Society is
pleased to announce encore pre-
sentations of “Howard's End” Fri-
day at 8:05 p.m. and Saturday, at
2:05 p.m., at 8:05 p.m. in the Trou-
badour Cinema. All are encour-
aged to attend and as always there
is no charge for admission.

Elections

Petitions forExecutive Commit-
tee class representatives and class
officers are due March 15. Elec-
tions will be March 22.

Carol Calkins’ office and the dead- 7

 

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum is sponsoring a
program entitled.“Dispelling Myths"
on Sunday, Feb. 28 at 6 p.m. in
Fairfax Lounge. We will be meeting
with representatives from the sur-
rounding women's colleges to dis-
cuss student relations and perpetuat-
ing myths. Food and beverages will
be served.

Ribbons

Wear a blue ribbon during Fancy
Dress week to heighten your aware-
ness of the connection between ex-
cessive drinking and sexual assault.
Pick up your ribbon at the Univer-
sity Center, the Health Center or the
University Library. ‘

New Club

The Red Wheelbarrow Society.
What’s this!? We’re a group of
weirdos that meet each Saturday
night to read poetry by candlelight.
Want to join us? We meet in the
conference room of Payne Hall (sec-
ond ﬂoor) at 9 p.m. Come by and
read or just listen. Questions? Call
Kristin Roach at 464-3916. Won-
dering about our name? Stop by and
find out.

’93 Project

The Class of '93, Pledge Project
Committee is now forming. Please
participate! For more information
call Annie at 464-6266.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe sober ride. Live Drive
operates Friday and Saturday nights
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. We’re also
looking for volunteers to help drive.
If interested call Melissa or Jess at
464-4017.

I 1, International

The International Club will
present a slide presentaion and
speech by Professor Hampden H.
Smith called “A Peek at Moscow”
tonight at 8 p.m. in Reid Hall room
203. Refreshments will be served.

The International Club will also
present a slide presentation and lec-
ture titled “Working With a Peru-
vian Community” by Anthropology
Professor John McDaniel on March
3 at 7 p.m. in Northern A.tditorium.
Refreshments will be served.

IFC

Mark Usry, Associate Business
Law Professor at James Madison
University, will speak on fraternity
risk management Sundayfrom 3 p.m.
to5p.m.attheC-School. AllGreeks
are invited.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar.

What do you think Baner did for break?

‘ vies Reynolds. “)6, Edinboro, Pa.
"Hit on Ruekhrulge High girls.”

0

John Conkling, ’93, Chestertown,
Md. — “Washed his truck.”

Susan Komonytsky, ’94, Spring Valley, Ohio, and Andrew Pearson, ’93,
Arlington, Va. — “Shot some stick at Shark’s.”

Ryan Connolly, ’96, Atlanta. Ga.—
“Gave out parking tickets to VMI ca-
dcls.”

Reggie Aggzirwtll. “NI .. :\I(‘\:lll(iI'i;l.
Vzl. —— “(';uuc up with smite nun
l't\l'lll\' nl scll lbw "

:;g-:-:-:-:-.v'  .-:-:-c-:-':-:-:-:-:-c-:-:-:-c-:-:--: ' if 9 

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-'-:-:-:-:-'

    
   

 

FEATURES

 

By RICHARD PELTZ
Phi Executive Editor

RADFORD — Rapper, rocker, actor, writer and cultural
icon Ice-T spoke to a sell—out crowd at Radford University on
Feb. 1 1 about everything from racial harmony to the battle of
the sexes.

“A lot of schools don’t even let people like me come and
speak,” Ice-T said atan afternoon press conference at Roanoke
Regional Airport. “There’re a lot of questions Iraise when I
speak, and I don’t necessarily know the answers.”

Reporters badgered Ice—T with questions about the song
“Cop Killer” on his last album, “Body Count,” recorded with
the group of the same name. Ice-T pulled the track last
summer, when it became an issue after the Los Angeles riots.

Ice-T said the song is directed only at hypocritical,
corrupt police officers who either break the law themselves,
such as by using illegal drugs while off-duty, or police who
are aware of corruption of their fellow ofﬁcers but do nothing
about it.

“I’ve got more cop friends now than I have ever had in my
life,” Ice-T said. “My true rage comes from these cops telling
me about cops. There are cool cops who know what time it
is.”

Ice-T,‘ who wore a Los Ange-
les Police Department T-shirt at
the speech in Radford’s Preston
Auditorium, blamed corrupt po-
lice and the media for exploding
“Cop Killer” into a front-page
issue.

“These bad cops say, ‘damn,
we’re being attacked. The best
defense is a good offense, so
let’s attack something,’” Ice-T
told his Radford audience. “Af-
ter a month and a half, I was still
in the headlines.... The minute I pulled it [“Cop Killer”], the
right stuff started showin’ up on the front page.”

Ice-T accused the media at the press conference of sensa-
tionalism. He criticized media and government alike for

At lett, Ice-T addresses reporters at a press con-
terence at the Roanoke Regional Airport on Feb.
11. He arrived at the airport In the company of one
friend and no bodyguards.

Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

on your 00
looks one.

 
  
  

To earn our College Days rate of $14 for lift tickets and $12 for

\

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 “\\\\\\

I’m into total racial
bonding. I’m trying
to get people united
. . . to explain why the
divide and conquer
thing has got us at
each other ’s throats.

o.ppoqoQQo"

All Winter Merchandise
50% Off

 

relying on a Constitution which does not protect free speech,
he said.

“The Constitution is a figment of all our imaginations,”
he said. “There is no free speech.Fuck, shit, bitch, dick. That
didn’t make it into your newspaper. ,
The Constitution can be bent  into
anything you want.

“You have a free will under God
because each person is put here to say
anything you want,” he said. “Every
person has a constitution in his heart,
 d that’s what you should stand
by ”

   
 

Ice-T defended the colorful lan-
guage in his presentation to the press
and his Radford audience.

“I use all the words of the lan-
guage,” he said at Radford, evoking
cheers from students. “I challenge
any of you educated minds to tell me
how the word ‘shit’ is going to send
me to hell.”

Ice-T’ s lecture, part of a two-week
tour of colleges, was sponsored at
Radford by students and the
university as a Black History
Month activity. Race was one
of Ice-T’s themes and evoked
the most emotional reaction
from the audience.

“I’m into total racial bond-
ing,” Ice-T said. “I’m trying to
get people united  to explain
why the divide and conquer
thing has got us at each other’s throats.”

One white student in the audience asked Ice-T how
to handle it when his father wouldn’t let him have
black friends over.

“Right is more important than family,” Ice-T said. “Your
parents don’t own you. You’re God’s child.”

He also said it's not enough for a white person to say he
is not racist.

“You’ve got to show it,” he said. “You’ve got to get
involved. ...When the uprisings in Los Angeles went off,
there were busloads of white people down there to help, and
that was healthy.”

Ice-T said that rap music is combating racism among

Photos by Richard Peltz, The Ring-tum Phi

  

The Ring-tum Phl, February 25, 1993

  

young people.

“It’s been 400 years of programmed racism,” he said. “;
don’t think anybody hates anybody. It’s all taught.

“[Now,] you are seeing a renaissance of young kids
reaching for the
truth, reaching for
racial equality. And
it’s all ’cause of rap.”

The cover of Ice-
T’s next album,‘
f‘Home Invasion,”
due out in March,
depicts the renais-
sance Ice-T per-
ceives and was one
reason for th
rapper’s split from
Time-Warner to
form his own label,

announced ‘last
, month.
Ice-T passed

around the new al-
bum cover at th
press conference. It
shows a white boy
wearing earphones
~ with Ice-T music
» playing and rap
groups’ names in the
' 1 background.Hesai0
the cover was too
“toxic” for Time-
Warner, though the

 

split was cordial.

Warner Brothers, the record division of Time-Warner,
“were like little buddy sayin’ ‘come on, Ice, don’t throw that
rock, ’cause we always get in trouble [with Time-Wamer], ”b
Ice-T said. “I said, ‘Igot to throw this rock, ’cause it’s comin’
from my heart.’ So I let Warner Brothers go home.”

He said Time-Wamer gave him full rights to all videos,
albums and catalog merchandise.

The image on the cover of “Home Invasion” is symbolic
of what Ice-T perceives as a renaissance of youth.

“The injection of the black voice in the white youth is thm
final stage in preparation for the revolution,” Ice-T said.

He said he sees some kind of revolution as necessary to

 

-'-‘:':':':':1:%":':':'.'l.'.'.'!-'.'-

Alvin - Emttiia ’

Tuxedos for Sale and Rental

 
 

 
   

your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St. Lexinton - Below First American Bank

 All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at  Fancy Cummerbund Sets -'
 Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99  Flasks

 Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable  Ray-Bans

 1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95   Redwing Boots .
 Saturday Night Prime Rib  W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars & Leashes
 Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95 Truck stop ' 

 Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.  ‘since 1953

 4 miles North on Route 11  Studen_t Char4g:3A5c3c§;nts Available ,
2:‘ We accept Visa, Mastercard, hoice, & Shell 

'_ _____________________________ _ _ 1 7///  //// W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for

        

 

(703) 463-5988

‘ 

 

 

    

W&L Art

W&L copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron T unison
Mary and George Washington pieces

Iri- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men ’s and Women’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and

TGIF 

OUTLETS

O
._ 'S*¥A'Y?» . 1870 Washin ton College Diploma Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
'.   1 signegd “R.E. Lee” Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount
.. W53‘ _  Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive
**""o?ﬁTa"zTséeT”«c1?Ea’§”"  Signatures‘ - - 9 -
, éiim. mmmc  mzhugh Lee 113, Lee, Jr, merchandise from America s most famous mail
: 33:10”  M. Miley John Letcher order houses. New shipments Every Week! ,
22.24s.x7:><m- . 1 Edward Valentine

rentals, all you have to do is show us your valid college ID. And if you
bring us this ad, you'll save an additional $2 off the College Days lift
ticket rate. College Days rates apply every Monday and Friday after
12:00 pm. So take advantage of your good looks and join the college
crowd at Massanutten.

K“ I N“ Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

io Miles East of V}-iarrisonburg. Virginia on Rout;rE’>’E’>

|_Copyright 1993, Great Eastern Resorts. WL

.l

  

lllllllllllllﬁ
lilllllllll

4 East Washington Street
Le ton. VA 24450

@703) 464-6464

Open Monday — Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

/1

Don't miss he PhiFD Supplement!"

Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters - ,
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

  

  

The Fling-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

 
 
   

also.”
I the Los Angeles riots

' the government, or “system,” which he says is
ning beyond salvation, and replace it with a just

intellectual rebellion first, but if it takes action,

Pays,” the title playing on the fact that he’d found a new way
to make money, he said. His career blossomed with later
albums, especially “O.G. Original Gangster.”
Ice-T moved into the movie scene with roles in “New
Jack City,” “Ricochet” and “Trespass.”
“I have no idea how to act,” he

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

,autiful thing” because
,ained control of their
rom.the malfunction-

You have a

because each person is put here

said. “I go in there; the line says,
‘Who's at the door?’; I say,
‘Who’s at the door?’; the
director’s like, ‘Brilliant! ”’

free will under God

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 

= mediately to gangs  hard—core.”

_ act girlfriend got pregnant.
school, he went into the army for four years

ld

I igh school in Los Angeles, where he was “indoc-

on meager government support, he found he
ible his income with crime, he said. In 12th grade,

airborne ranger, he said. He left the army “with
ike of the system” and was drafted back into the

said he was involved in insurance fraud, credit
gs, pimping, kidnapping, arson and armed rob-
hasﬁnever been stretched in prison.” He said he
n rap writing rhyming gang slogans as graffiti.

oved into music with his first album, “Rhyme

woman and enjoy the sex.. ..

“There’s only one reason we’re really here on earth,” he
said. “That’s to reproduce. [Otherwise,] God could have
made it painful, like you have to cut off your arm and touch
the stubs together.” '

Asked what one message Ice-T would like to give to
college-age men and women, he said, “courage.

“As long as you let the opposition scare you, you lay
dormant and become its slave.. .. Stand on your feet.”

At rlght, Ice-T speaks from the podlum to 1,500 In
the audience at Radford University on Feb. 11. His
talk lasted more than three hours. Most of that
time he took questions from the audience.

and

  

PAGE 5

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Learn
5 Unooncerned

10 Matched
collections

14 Rim

15 Rod of the ,
courts

16 Egress

17 Bamboo, for
one

18 Make up (for)

19 Top

20 One source of
college funds

22 Travels regularly

23 Look at
suggestlvely

24 Stew

25 Inclination

27 Harsh in tone

31 "— we all?"

32 Shine

33 Name in China

34 Take five

35 Much_watched @1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

29 was like Martin to Say anythlng you, wa,nt' E,“Ver_y Ice-T saidheiscurrent1ywork- . 36 i-Liiiiest ,
gDay tome,” he said. person has a constitution in his ing on a book, tentatively titled, 3; fcnéﬁniz: d L°s'W°°k“"sW°'==

udo something wrong, heart 0 and thatas what you “The Ice Opinion: Who Gives a 39 "E: guamjge 7 Bards rive,

'onsequences. How do ’ ' ° Fuck?" Ma —-" 8 Posted

a consequence when should Stand by- He said he wants to make his 40 - =_i Pin 13 3:10"?
mrgent] fuck up? No mark in different arts to inspire ﬁg ggggﬁzﬁegf 1, Stir‘

w stupid or wrong, [the people] issued a conse- children to achieve despite disadvantages like those he baseball 12 Fourth

L05 Ange]eg_” faced, 44 Golf call dimension

onse to criticism that innocent people died in the “All I do is instill hope,” he said. “I am you. You can do 2; ggﬁggggﬁst 13 :'gb';°'V ‘”°”‘°"‘

T cited Malcolm X, saying, “There will be no it.” 52 Fish sauce 21 Left '

1 without bloodshed.” Ice-T has turned some of his fame into immediate relief 53 Arab princes 22 Decorous

e-T said the most important revelation of the with his financial support of Hands Across Watts, an orga- 54 ;Wg‘:r't‘9 ‘?,"“° E‘; g3"‘P”f°9P- rs

ing case was that the justice system is not perfect. nization dedicated to rebuilding Los Angeles. 55 cgny of 26 ,,:,‘,-§:an,‘)f‘;°e,,ng

pro9ed that 12 people in a box doesn’t mean But Ice—T’s message to the next generation also seems to 56 Ample 27 slides
I ocent or guilty,” he said. “America found’em say lighten up andbe tolerant. He kept his Radford audience 2% 3359' <;:o1r;‘i2 3: aim! h°l°in°

men on trial] guilty. They [the Jurors] found’em roaring in approval when he defended himself with blunt 59 Genzfgw 30 carry

’ talk against allegations of sexism. so so" pegs 31 section
ition to talking about hot public issues, Ice-T “There is a very gray area in feminism, a war between the 32 Festive
ut himself. feminist movement and other women,” he said. “Men are 1 ggrvczin word ﬁg g:{,“aFr‘°"s

' born in Newark,” he Said: €V0kln8 Scattered Pretty Cut and drY- Me“ Want 10 fuck You- 2 First place 38 Call, as a cab 45 Goldfish relative 49 Author Wiesel

“PlBl1se don't clap for fucking Newark.” “If you took the male sex drive away,  the economy of 3 Mellowed 39 Veer 46 ,J.ai - ' 50 Hawaiian bird
(1 his rriother died when he was in third grade and the entire world would collapse. None of these guys would 2 gfngsrgrlgd 2; 33"“-5 47 slecleer: —"W'lh 51 g§'g;9 and
when he was in seventh grade. He then went to an be in college . . . to make enough money to take care of your 6 No, now 44 Countedegt 43 D,,s,,,,,';,,, 53 wapm

 
 

Fancy Dress tickets and

memorabilia on sale next week

Monday — Thursday
9 a.m. — 3 p.m.
Friday
9 a.m. — 12 p.m.
113 University Center

  

 

Manager of

All letters of interest may

Needed: Editors and Business Managers of
University Publications
Positions Available: Editor & Business

Business Manager of the Calyx, Editor of
the Ariel, Editor of the Journal of Science,
and Editor of the Political Review.

   
    
     
   

Interviews - March 1, 1993

Letters of Interest for all other
publications due March 8, 1993;
Interviews - March 15,1993

    
   
    
   
    
    
  

The Ring-tum Phi, Editor &

‘ Ring—tum Phi

  

be turned into Carol Calkins in the University Center.

" 'Fl6r1d§"‘iSPRING'BRE‘AK

-IQ-Ir

.r

'17‘ J5 -9‘
THE LENFEST SERIES

presents

Tickets & Reservations 463-8000 0 Noon - 4 PM 0 Monday thru Friday 1: _

_.§=.'i.: _§-E 31:3-33: Jr‘...

0 I993 Téathtrr lruurunc: and Annuity /l.r.rm'a1Ian/W Callegr Retirement  Fun).

" Can *nn’datt-.' 4 - Din k it A
Jansport day packs and book bags -

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

   
  

   

7 nights Beachfront
$139 — 159
Reserve rooms NOW
Call CMI 1-800-423-5264

    
 

453-7969

 

/I S \
A l’Rl.\'Cll’l.l’.S of S()l.'Nl) Rli'l'lRl-L.\ll£N'l‘ lN\'l-1S'l‘l.\'(} N

UNFORTUNATELIQ THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality of life.

What else makes SRAS so special?
A range of allocation choices-—from the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversiﬁed investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity--all backed

by the nation's number one retirement

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAS.
SRAS not only case your current tax-
bite, they offer a remarkably easy way
to build retirement income—especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security beneﬁts may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on

system.

Why write off the chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF

SRAS can help you enjoy many

your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the happy returns.
Beneﬁt nmvﬁmn tax dcferml. Call our SRA both»: 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.
- 75 years of ensuring the future ‘'3
for those who shape itf" ‘°" ”’
K
\

 

PAGE 6

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

NEWS

  



 

W&L News Office

Jennifer Haily, ’95L, was one of nine law students who interviewed Haitian refugees in Florida.

Law students register refugees

By J .D. LOWRY
Phi Law School Writer

A group of Washington and Lee law students spent part
of their Christmas break helping Haitian refugees who
recently arrived in the United States.

Nine law students spent the first week of January in West
Palrri Beach, Fla., with the Haitian Refugee Project. The
students interviewed Haitian refugees and drafted their
applications for political asylum in the United States.

Third-year law student Moira Roberts, one of the orga-
nizers of the volunteers, brought the project to the attention
of the W&L chapter of the National Lawyers’ Guild.

“The NLG overwhelmingly supported the idea of going
to Florida over the semester break,” Roberts said. Nine
students, representing all three law classes, took part in the
project.

“Most of the refugees we interviewed were educated
community leaders and teenagers of prosperous families,”
third-year law student Monoka Venters said. “They were
the ones most targeted by the militants. Community ser-
vants who teach people how to read, write and vote —
services that are commendable in our country — target you
for death in the current Haitian regime.”

In preparation for the trip, students spent fall term study-
ing immigration law and issues relating to the refugees.
Once in Florida, students interviewed refugees for eight
hours a day. .

The refugees the students interviewed had already passed

two baths.

basement for recreation. Front and back decks. 12 miles
Southwest of Lexington. $600/month +deposit. Contact
Kenney’s Burger 463-5730 or call 463-2320.

House Available for Rent —

3 West Preston. Either two

apartments or the whole house -
four bedrooms, two kitchens,

Call 261-6478 after 6 p.m.

one stage of screening at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to deter-
mine whether or not they had legitimate claims for political
asylum.

For the refugees who had been allowed to proceed to
Florida, the students’ job was to make the best possible
argument for asylum in each refugee’s application.

First—year law student Stephan Montas, who speaks
fluent Creole because he is of Haitian descent, spent several
days helping other interpreters and interviewers.

The attorneys supervising the group gave them a goal of
27 refugees to interview during the week. The group sur-
passed the goal, filling out applications for 35 refugees.

But Roberts said she felt overwhelmed by the amount of
work that remained.

“The need for services is so great, but you don’t feel
satisfied because there’s so much left to do,” she said. “I felt
like a drop of water in the ocean.”

Roberts said the students will have no opportunity to
learn about the status of the refugees they interviewed, as the
asylum process takes many years.

Most of the cost of the project was covered by faculty and
church donations. Each participant contributed $25 toward
the cost of the trip.

The NLG paid for the students’ lodging and for interpret-
ers, a necessity since the refugees did not speak English.

The students returned to Lexington with different im-
pressions of their experiences.

“You had to turn off your feelings during the interviews,”
Roberts said. “But later, you got shivery thinking about the
plight of these people.”

Manning promotes Gaines’  

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

University officials will increase the
number of single rooms in Gaines Hall
next year in an effort to attract more
students to the dormitory.

“We’re not scrambling or gnashin g
teeth or pulling out hair over Gaines,”
Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life
Dennis Manning said. “We’re just ad-
justing to meet the market.”

But University Treasurer Larry
Broomall said financial considerations
also inﬂuenced the decisions.

“The occupancy rate in Gaines has
always been disappointing from a ﬁs-
cal standpoint,” Broomall said. “We ’re
still learning about the utility of Gaines,

IFC, SAC
ponder 
’93 Rush

RUSH, from page 1

we have to take into consideration the
other 15 houses.

“We also have always considered
faculty concerns and understand the
concerns they have had,” Washmon
said.

Atkins said caps on pledge class
sizes would be effective.

“ [Limitingpledge class sizes] would
be an incentive for fraternities to work
hard,” Atkins said.

“A little diversity isn’t bad, but
houses with 80 [members] and houses
with 20 [members] aren ’t a good idea,”
he said.

De'lt’s proposal has been presented
to the IFC twice and will be further
discussed at next week’s council meet-
mg.

The first presentation occurred at a
meeting of the IFC’s ad hoc Rush com-
mittee.

That committee unanimously voted
against discussing it.

But McCabe said the IFC’s wari-
ness will not deter Delt.

“We will get SAC to hear our pro-
posal even if it means hand delivering
the proposal to each member of the
SAC,” McCabe said.

and we’ve found that more and more
students want single rooms.”

Since it opened in September 1987,
Gaines has never reached its occu-
pancy of 230 people, according to the
university’s 1992-93 Fact Book.

The occupancy has ranged from 222
in 1988-89 to 165 in 1991-92, accord-
ing to the Fact Book. This year, 199
students live in Gaines.

Manning said only a small number
of double rooms are being converted to
single rooms.

“We looked at double rooms where
we felt the dimensions were constricted
for two people,” Marming said. “It’s
only a handful, not a sweeping
reconfiguration.”

Broomall saidanincrease in singles,
which cost more than doubles, will

mean more money for the university.

“We think the conversion may oc-
cupy enough rooms to reverse the rb
duced revenue expectations that we are
used to,” Broomall said.

Manning said he plans to market
Gaines better next year by telling fresh-
men about it early in the year.

“The challenge is, how do we deal
with the local real estate market?.”
Manning said. “Freshmen feel pres-
sured to contact agents and sign leases
early. I bet one-third of the freshman
class has signed leases [for the next
year] by November.”

Manning said he hopes to hold open
houses in Gaines next year so fI'€Sl’Il’I1C‘I
have a chance to see on-carnpus living.

“We want to demonstrate that liv-
ing on campus can be wonderful.”

Tree-hugger

Abandoned by a cherrypicker, Washington and Lee
groundsman Christopher Wise prunes the upper reaches of a
tree outside the University Center on Monday. Buildings and
Grounds worked on winter pruning campuswide this week.

2 New Houses built with students in mind Sp;-in g Break ;
4 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, Modern Kitchen, Large Living Area, C ANC UN, N A S 5 AU
Washer/Dryer, Stove, Refrigerator, and Central Heat. Full from $299

Organize a small group for FREE trip
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

Cape Cod House for Rent - One or *
Two Year Lease. Located on Rt. 39
on the river, approximately 9 1/2
miles from Lexington. Oil or wood
furnace, 5 bedrooms, full basement,
dining room, living room, den,
large kitchen. Call 348-5210

CN
EX'1‘RA INCOME NOW!

 
   
 

Free Details: SASE to

International Inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.

 

P ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week -

Brooklyn, New York 11230

  

 
 

   

SPANKY’S is now looking for
Wait Staff; Deli
Cooks, Bartenders.
Come join a winning team -
And have fun, too!!

can $25
on COLLEGE.

   

(703) 463-2166 A

THE ARMY CAN HELP YOU

200 EDGE

The Army can help you get an edge on life and earn up to
$25,200 for college through the Montgomery GI Bill Plus the Army
 V. College Fund.

The government then con-

tributes its share, $9,600 from

_, the Montgomery GI Bill plus
.. $14,400 from the Army Col-

Army opportunities get
better every day. If you qualify, you could train in one of over
250 challenging and rewarding high-tech skills in ﬁelds like
avionics and electronics, satellites and microwave communica-
tions, computer and radar operations-just to name a few.

It makes sense to earn while you learn. For more information
about getting money for college, call your Army Recruiter today.

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

}tI§{)e’: h§1";’)(i)t W°rkSt'hlf{°“ 11 W. Nelson Street

COD U E‘ a H1011 OI” ‘ ‘ ' ’

the ﬁrst year from your 3630 Lexington, Virginia 24450
plus monthly starting salary. '

ypt glw 

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

 
  

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom
combination. Private Bath. 10-month
lease. Singles only. Call 463-3835

1.5-. I u

 Four bedroom house for 
 rent for next school year. 
" Call 463-5383 "

  

_,._ -.-.r..-.- .-- -.-.-.--i.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.5-.5.-.-.-.-.

Borden Commons Condo
For Sale By Owner

Two Bedroom, Two bath, Living room, Dining room,

Kitchen, Utility room, Storage area, stove, refrig.,
washer/dryer, microwave, Central heat & air, wall to
wall carpeting, no garage tax.

 

Robby Jones
(703) 463-2022

  

r---
i FREE r
l TAN PASS l

' Limit One Coupon Per Person I
New Customers Only '

"""l

    

 

r----"'1

Lexingion crossing Shopping center (Next To wal-Mari) 464-TANS (8267)

| February special |

I
| only $2900 |
| New... Newllne Wolie Beds |

I Limit One Coupon Per Person I
L New Customers Only

   
       
         
   

E.- Nelson St., Lexington

Valley 

Hardware, Paint and Related Items.

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m. / Sun. i—5 p.m.

463-2186

CRAFTS PLUS. INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturda 10 to 5

31 S. Main St., Lexington 46 -3355

UNTV

$RSlITY

  
 

SPQRTWEAR

15 VV. VVASHINCSTCDN ST
LEXINCETQN. VA 24450
703 464-3000

Now Carrying Merrell Hiking Boots

  
   

 

0
The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

 

HEIIISTBGTBI The Fancy Dress
P Committee invites you
SAVE soc PER PACKAGE       

SMITHFIELD
I E§jb’3'*“"-3;‘

SLICED
* BACON

16 OZ.
0 ’ .
if 

9 U.$.D.A. CHOICE -II '
BONELESS '- "

CHUCK   
" ROAST .................... .. LB.

“FEET? ""”' 'c’¢':'c'A5$’¢'>‘L‘Ii°"   Friday, March ,

.    duringthe day to View
F   the FD decorations.

     
  

  

 

 
 
   
 
 
 
   
  

20 OZ. NRB.

 

 

  

  
  

   

.... .. " ""’   “””  
THE    i
L 
StudentAtivitiesBoard 
9  
_   _ O PIZZA ........ ..6.8—7.6 oz.  . 
"  ‘,«»VD USAII SHAMPOO, CONDITIONER OR STYLING AIDS  PTCSCH tS  
H PERMA SELECTED I  
REG|51'ER to Wm [N SOFT ....... ...V.*.‘.’?!?.T.’.E..5. .... ..3-t5OZ. ' '
HARRIS TEETER'S PRESIDENT'S CHOICE HOT OR MILD 
|=|.v WITH THE SALSA 2/3

5
Z
S
3
T
I-u
3
‘:5

PICANT E .......... .. 15.5 OZ.
- H O   PRESIDENT'S CHOICE BLUE CORN
sw£EPs'rAKEs TORTILLA 
You Could Win One Of These Fabulous CHIPS .................. .. 7 OZ. O

Prizes. See Details And Register At The
Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter. VALUABLE COUPON

., 0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando 9 oz PACKAGE 0':

tl‘:.';t‘.‘,‘.f.‘:t..‘.t‘:.?.‘:n‘:.Y.:‘:§‘..‘Uf;‘.“t‘:: MICHELINA '5 E
MAC & CHEESE

Accommodations And Game Tickets.
2 EACH

in the

Troubadour
Thursday, Februairy 25 at 8 p.m.  
Sunday, February 28 at 3 & 6 p.m.§ 

 

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte, I
' N.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes I
0 Game Tickets & Hotel Accommodations. I

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call l-800-274-70 0 For More Details

 

-. -  »§;-»*.é».i‘.~a».»‘.;l-.iv‘.-r.«;e.ir.>e.-; ;;;:f+. '**-"*"*-*‘T-'°'-*~e

 

On How To Win. AND
0 One Pair Of ‘Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away l£l':)ils’Cc:1up;):1Phk/’\:y1(:\:Etﬁl:LTg>fl6;cgg_Akirr:i:1?r;1e FLU 2969 I  
. In Each Harris Teeter For March/ April Games. |rF’:kr)c(li‘:’:]:«;-.2<3H;:5‘)o3ood February 1'7. mm FROZEN   
Find Details And Register At The Coke ‘ ' '5

Can |
Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter. ﬁjffgiﬂuj nuns‘ ' GJ

_ VALUABLE COUPON VALUABLE COUPON

68.7 so. FT. ROLL or 6.12 oz. CAN or I

 



sun Iasr CHUNK|  

I LIGHT TUNA 
I I * 
I \f¢§ﬁ§g\ I e?
..,w em, {E

- 43, 9‘ 23

| uﬁff " A I -. ‘
».a._:' S ‘:5

DELTA PAPER
TOWELS

    

   

VWTH
3720 COUPON

WITH ‘ 
mi coupon EACH § §

EACH .
l This Cou Ma Not Be R roduced. Li_m_it One PLU 2980 I This Cou n Me Not Be R roduced. Limit One pLU 298] I 5 < M h 4 t 8 O 
%:::::§§P::°e...“°rV¥2r.§.f;‘Ws“'"‘“'" Nrsoaocerev %::R::f%t::“?;:::”¥:tf'§.%;‘T-m"'"““"‘ oszoceav ~‘  are a - Pom-
Felaruary 23, l 993 February 23, l 993

 

   _::tfW°.:a.:*L°”%l Q} j in the

Prir. :-. This Ad Eltective Wednesday February 17 Throu uesdoy, February 23, T99 . In LexinOl0n Stores

' . / We l’!:‘I3rve The Right To Limit Quantities. None ld To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food stumps.

Prices Effective Throu h Februar 23, 1993  Pavlllon

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

Bball- R—MC 79,W&L 48 (5-19)
MSwim- 3rd at Sothern States (9-0)
WSwim- 2nd at Atlantic States (8-3)
Wrestle— Longwood 45,W&L 12 (4-6)

PAGE 8

S

@112 ‘iﬁirtg-tum iﬁhi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK&F|ELD

This Week:

IT- ODAC Champ. at VMI (M&W) 2/27
MLax- at St. Mary’s,Md. 2/27

WLax- at Guilford 3/3

Base- West Va. Tech 2/27-28 1pm
MTen-CNC 2/26 3pm;RC&GC 2/27 9am
WTen- at Sweet Briar 3/1

FEBRUARY 25, 1993

Five swimmers
qualify for NCAA
national meet

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s swim teams
train all season so that their best
performances come at the end of
the season, when they really mean
something.

Well, this season wasn’t any
different.

In the Southern States Cham-
pionships, aDivision
I meet at Davidson
College, the men
placed third overall,
winningthree events.

In the Atlantic
States/Old Dominion
Athletic Conference
Championships, the
W&L women fin-
ished second in the
ASC, but only third
in the ODAC because
of a different scoring system that
hurt them for not having a larger
squad.

The women swam away with
an incredible 17 victories in the
meet’s 18 events.

In addition to compiling 11
best times for the season, W&L
also set an amzing six school

records.

Freshman Rebekah Prince has
already left an indelible mark on
W&L swimming. She was one
of four Generals to win three
events at the meet and was named
the ASC/ODAC Swimmer ofthe
Year.

The team’s coach, Kiki
Jacobs, didn’t have to enter the
pool, but was awarded the ODAC
Coach of the Year award.

Jacobs, in her second season
as the team’s head coach, had to
lead the eight—swimmer team
against competition that usually
had much larger rosters.

Nonetheless, her women man-
aged an 8-3 record, 3-0 in the
ODAC.

In addition to Prince, senior
captain Claire Dudley, sopho-
mores Susan Fisher and Brandi
Henderson each won three ASC/
ODAC events. Those four
teamed up fora win and a school
record in the 200—medley relay.

Dudley posted NCAA Cham-

W&L’s boys of spring

 

Rowe

pionships qualifying times in the
100 and‘200-breaststroke, leav-
ing behind school records of
1:09.29 and 2:29.40, respec-
tively.

Prince qualified in the 100-
backstroke, 200-backstroke, and
200-Individual Medley, all in
school—record times.

The W&L men, who are still
9-0, had three swimmers post
NCAA consideration times:
Freshman Craig
Sears won the 200-
individualmedley,
senior Andrew
Pearson in his cus-
tomary role as
speed demon in the
50-freestyle, and
sophomore John
Roweoontinuedan
excellent second
campaign with a
solid time in the

400-IM.

The Generals best showing
came in the 200-freestyle relay.
The foursome of Pearson, senior
Chris Hagge, sophomore Roland
Chase and freshman David
Stillman finished the race in
1:26.21.

The men posted 17—season
best times in the meet.

Next up are the National Col-
legiate Athletic Championships.

Claire Dudley and Rebekah _

prince will travel to some place
in the United States the weekend
of March 11-13.

Dudley will cap off her bril-
liant four years by competing in
two races. It will be the fourth
trip for Dudley to Nationals. In
1990, she swam away from the
meet as an All—American in the
l00—breaststroke.

Meanwhile Prince will close
out an outstanding freshman year
by vying for national recognition
of her own in three events.

Prince has already established
three school records in her rookie
season: the 100 and 200—back,
and the 200—IM.

For the men, Sears, Pearson
and Rowe will make the trek
across the U.S. to some great
swimming bastion to try for All-
America status the weekend of
Mar. 18-20.

 

Assistant coach Tim Downes watches as the men's lacrosse team practices its offensive attack.

Lacrosse prepares for run -

IO POSISGEISOI1 tournamen

By SEAN O’RoURkE
Phi Sports Editor

Head Washington and Lee
men’slacrosse coach Jim (don’t
call me Vince) Stagnitta is ex-
cited.

“Why?” you ask. Just take a
look at his 1993 lacrosse team.
Need I say more?

Stagnitta is in the enviable
position of having talented, ex-
perienced players and talented
young players to work with.

He has assembled a solid
team with 13 seniors and jun-
iors, and 24 sophomores and
freshmen.

“We have a nice group of
kids this year,” Stagnitta said.
“We have a good combination
of experienced players and
young ones.”

That combination gives the
Generals what they lacked last
year, depth.

“We now have real good
depth,” Stagnitta said.

“Last year we had a patch-
work midﬁeld. This year we
can plug in four or five solid
players.”

The one place the Generals
are probably the most solid is in
the defensive end of the field.

W&L is anchored by senior

tri—captain Josh Levinson. He is
joined by senior standout Kirk
Olsen and sophomore Shaun
McKenzie.

Stagnitta realizes that the
team’s strength lies with this
unit.

“We definitely
have five real good
and experienced
kids. Levinson,
Olsen and
McKenzie are a real
good unit. All of
them are good ath-
letes.”

The Generals’
real depth is with the
midﬁeld. The team
has a number of players that
will play and we maintain a con-
sistent level of play.

The two other tri-captains are
midfielders. Last year’s top
scorer, senior John Hunter, will
again be looked upon to pro-
duce. Hunter ﬁnished the sea-
son with 20 goals and 16 assists.

Classmate, and the third tri-
captain, Dave Schiminger also
has the offensive skills to put up
some big numbers. Schiminger
ended the 1992 campaign with
15 goals and eight assists.

Junior Colin Higgins is the
third member of the midfield
trio who will be counted upon

 

Hunter

for goals. Higgins had an excel-
lent sophomore year, ﬁnishing
with 21 goals and eight assists.

If there is one area the team
might have any problems it
could be on attack. Not because

the team doesn’t <

have the talent, but
because it lacks the
one player who can
get the offense to
produce, sort of
like the point guard
in basketball.

The Generals
do have enough tal-
ent to score big. At-
tack is the thinnest
area when it comes
to depth, but with seniors Wiemi
Douoguih and David
Lefkowitz, and sophomore
Andy Dutton the Generals are
not wanting for offense.

Douoguih led the trio with
33 points (25 goals, 8 assists).
Lefkowitz and Dutton finished
with identical stats, 18 goals
and six assists.

“We have three scorers——
Wiemi [Douoguih], [David]
Lefkowitz and [Andy] Dutton—-
but we don’t have a quarter-
back, someone to set-up the of-
fense. But that area will im-
prove as the year goes on,”
Stagnitta said.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

O

The Generals jump head first
into this new season, as three of
the first ﬁve games are against
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence opponents, including a big
home game against Roanoke.

The team hasn’t played a
“real” game yet, but they have
scrimmaged a number of Divi-
sion III powers for the past
month or so; Stagnitta thinks
this actually gives the Generals
an edge.

“We’ve scrimmagedwithpe-
rennial dominant Division III
teams and we held our own,”
Stagnitta said. “We’ve prepared
really well—and the scrim-
mages allowed us to use every-
body against good competition.
So the team is prepared for the
teams on our schedule.”

And what a schedule it is.
The Generals have their most
difﬁcult stretch of the season in
the beginning.

Luckily, four of the ﬁrst six
games are at Wilson Field.

It begins with the second
game of the season. W&L starts
off with unpredictable ODAC
foe, Randolph-Macon College.

Franklin & Marshall is up
next, followed by W&L’s most
intense rival, Roanoke College
and finally Lynchburg College.
Both ODAC games could have

significent impact on the rest of
the season..

The final test comes when
the team travels to Pennsylva-
nia to take on lacrosse—power,
Gettysburg. '

After Gettysburg, W&L is
on the road for five of its last
eight.

Stagnitta thinks the team’s
postseason could be decided in
the series of games starting with
Randolph-Macon and ending‘
with Lynchburg.

“The first four will decide
the fate of our postseason. If we
can come out of them in good
shape lthink we’ll have a chance
to make the postseason tourna-
merit.”

One ﬁnal note before I le9
you ponder this team’s chances.
After 50 meetings, going back
to 1947, the University of Vir-
ginia has been dropped from
this year’s schedule.

Stagnitta says it will not be a
permanent omission, but addﬁ
that not starting the year off
with an almost sure loss is a
good thing.

“It is nice not to start the year
with a loss. It’s a good draw for
the kids, with a lot of tradition
and history. g

“Butthe game really doesn’t
affect our season.”

By K1-:rnr GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Fifteen—nothing. Thirteen-five. Twelve-
nothing. Eighteen-one.

Those are just a few of the scores from the
1992 Washington and Lee baseball season.
Unfortunately, the Generals’ run totals are on
the right.

However, after a 4-21 season, there are few
places to go but up, and that seems to be where
the ’93 Generals will head.

Although most of the Generals hardly have
the experience of corporals (there is only one
junior and one senior), there are plenty of
welcome additions and some key returnees.

Following a season in which the pitching
staff posted an 8.74 Earned Run Average (in
English, that means roughly nine runs per
gamel), head coach Jeff Stickley is pleased to
have a pitcher returning whose ERA was 4.09.
Brett Hartman pitched exclusively in relief, but
he’ll be called upon to anchor a highly inexpe-
rienced staff.

Hartman, a sophomore, was 0-1, but did not
allow an earned run over his last 10.1 innings,
covering his ﬁnal five appearances. Classmate
Bates Brown will join Hartman in trying to turn
around the mound performances. Brown was
second on W&L in starts last year and was one
of four Generals that each won one game in ’92.

The two sophs will be joined by several
freshmen hopefuls, led by Graig Fantuzzi.
Fantuzzi was 8-1 with a 1.67 ERA a year ago for
Toms River South High School, the New Jersey

  

 

state championship team. Fantuzzi is joined by
fellow football teammate, quarterback Geren
Steiner, who will help secure some much needed
depth.

One area that the Generals seem sure to be
strong in is offense. Last year’s team home run
leader, third baseman Duane Van Arsdale, re-
turns for his second season at W&L. Van
Arsdale, another member of the Generals’ foot-
ball squad, led the Generals last year in homers
(4), runs scored (19), walks (19), and slugging
average (.5 20). He was also second in batting at
.320.

Van Arsdale will team with classmate Todd
Stanton (.328) to try to light up the Smith Field
scoreboard—but on the Generals’ side, this
season. Stanton, who played for the Georgia
state championship team in high school, will
probably do most of the catching. Junior Chad
Loizeaux is a solid defensive catcher and will
provide a steady backup.

The squad’s only senior and the Generals’
captain is shortstop Jon Hesse. Hesse was ﬁfth
on the team in hitting last year with a .267 clip,
tied with sophomore Erik Treese. Hesse, an
excellent shortstop, hit .323 as a freshman and
hopes to return to that form in his final season.

The Generals will hope for another quick
start as they host West Virginia Tech this week-
end at Smith Field. The season opens with a
double-header on Saturday, with the ﬁrst game
scheduled for 1 p.m. The third game had been
scheduled for Friday, but will be played on
Sunday afternoon.

Play Ballli

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard redlt Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and MasterCard@
credit cards..“in your name.“ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA0 and MasterCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need for— ID—BOOKS——DI-ZPARTMENT
STORES-—TUiTION-ENTERTAINM ENT-
EMERGENCY (YtSH-—TICKETS—RESTAURAN'IS—
HOTELS—MOTELS—CAS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

No credit
No security deposit!

Approval absolutely guaranteed so

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

It appears as if Wilson Moore is more than ready to run wild
in Bermuda come November. Moore and his fellow Generals
will get a taste of the tropics when they take Georgetown in
the Bermuda National Stadium on Nov. 20.

 

Football team

 

Photo bydamesort Leonardi, The Fi/ng-tum Phi

I
12111"-—-D-XX--22221211

in Berm

By SEAN O’RoURKr2
Phi Sports Editor

Note to the incoming Ring-tum
Phi sports editor:

If you have an iota of brain
mass in your head, cover the foot-
ball team next year!

The Washington and Lee foot-
ballteam willmakehistoryonNov.
20 when the Generals take on the
Georgetown Hoyas.

It won’t be because the Hoyas
are moving to Division I-AA in the
upcoming season.

It won’t be because it’s the 25th
meeting between W&L and
Georgetown.

No. It will be because the two
teams will participate in the first
college football game ever played
in...Berrnuda.

You read it right, and no this is
not an early article for the April
Fools’ edition of the paper.

The game will take place the
third Saturday in November at the

  

to make history
uda -

Bermuda National Stadium.

The schools will also challenge
each other in a debate on Friday
night, Nov. 19. The topic of the
competition will be, “Colleges that ,
depend on revenues from athktic
departrnents—Does this affect the
school’s educational mission?”

Not really relevant to W&L,
Georgetown is a totally different
subject, but an interesting topic

nonetheless.

There will also be contestsﬁfor
alumni of both institutions. All the
alumni competitions will be kept
track of, and those scores will added
to the ones earned in the debate and

football game.

The school with the highest
cumulative total wins the ﬁrst—ew:r,

Bermuda Bowl Cup.

The Generals are fortunate to
be part of this inaugural event be-
cause the Bermuda Bowl will be
an annual competition between

Division I-AA schools.

So can everyone say—.JEAJ.-

OUS.

 

   
 
 
 

NOTE: Mastaﬂnrd is a registered tnderrark d’ Mmtcrchrd Intematioml Inc.
Visa is a registered tndclrnrk ofVI$A USA. Inc In! VISA lntcrnatfornl
Services Assucluion.

: STUDENT SERVICESIBOX 1792lI.PLANTAIION.FL 3331 -E
:   IwantVISA®/MASTERCARDQCredlt :
I Cards. Endosed [Ind S 5 which is 100% refundable if not I
I approved lrnrnediateiy. I
I I
' NAME I
: ADDRESS :
I CITY STATE.._ZIP I
: PHONE s.s.v : I
: SIGNATURE ~ :
I I
I I
E. .'

100°/o GUARANTEED!

crudiotronics

AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY tar
ADCOM ALPINE

TOSHIBA MARANTZ

KEF cwo

BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA

' SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

' BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

‘ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

' MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Road ;
Overlooking Tanglcwood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Ru.-rmwkc

 

,.  =52...

 

 

 

  

ha

ariety is the major theme in
music for this year’s Fancy
Dress.

The fun begins Wednes-
day at 4 p.m. in the Dell,
where the Interfratemity
Council will sponsor

Jackopierce, an acoustic duet out of Hous-
ton, Texas. Cary Pierce and Jack O'Neil
met at Southern Methodist University,
where both were theatre majors. The pair’s

music has been compared to that of The ‘T '

Indigo Girls and early Crosby, Stills, Nas
and Young.

“Someday You’ll 1,1
“J ackopierce,” under 
Records label. Pierce
opened for such stars
The Neville Brothers
Suzanne Vega.

The Student Activities _
Fancy Dress Committee have-
bands offering distinct sounds Th
and Friday nights.

The Pavilion will rock Thursday night
with The Dave Matthews Band, opening
for The Fabulous Thunderbirds.

A regular every Tuesday night at Trax

 

Supplement Editor — Joyce Bautista
Cover and center spread art —
Deirdre Denechaud, Amy Jefferson
and Lillis Allison

Ke|ly’s

   
 

Q
  or  

 

in Charlottesville, The Dave Matthews
Band has a sound that Matthews calls “dis—
tinctly American.” Very popular on the
college circuit, Matthews drew crowds at
W&L’s Superdance this year.

With hits like “Tuff Enough” and “Pow-
erful Stuff,” The Fabulous Thunderbirds
should keep everyone moving with their
classic rock ’n’ blues sound. Known for

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  

utrageous harmonica play-
"irds will definitely provide an

 
   
  
   
  

__ ebig gym,FD veteran
. the swing band for the
. thumbs-up approval from
tkins, the music will certainly
xmprre‘  “ball-goers to dance the night away.
In the small gym, the eccentric and wild
New Rhythm Blues Quartet, known as
N.R.B.Q., will entertain with their covers
of Little Richard, Jerry Lee Lewis and Ray
Charles, among others, as well as their
own music. N.R.B.Q. plays a blend of
blues, jazz, rockabilly and pop with an
unorthodox style.
The group’s original tunes include
“Ridin’ In My Car,” “Wacky Tobacky”
and “Green Lights.”

Corner

On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington

All Of Your Fancy Dress

and Party

Supplies

At The Best Prices.

As Always, We Provide The
Best Service For The W&L Community

Open 7 Days 463-5452

Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

 

 FANCY DRESS '93

 

 

Join us for Fancy Dress...
All Weekend Long!.'
Enjoy Food and
Beverage Specials!

Take $2 Off all En trees
(All Entrees already below $8.’!

We ’ll see you then!

 
  
 

 

 

 
 

  

giant marquee with the words
“Welcome to the 86th An-
nual Fancy Dress Ball” greets
ball-goers on the island be-
tween Doremus Gymnasium
and the freshman dorms.

Past the marqueed island, the trees give
way to giant spotlights sweeping the sky.

A red carpet leads from a limousine to
the stairs of the gym.

An enormous marquee above the doors
transforms the Doremus Gymnasium en-
trance into the front of an old-time movie
theatre.

Through the doors, the
red carpet continues into
the hallway, decorated
with framed movie post-
ers, palm trees, red cur-
tains and an oversized
Oscar.

 

Bv KRISTIN LAWRENCE
Phi Contributing Writer ;

On the rightside of the gym,an 18-foot-
high, Old West town, complete with a
saloon, haystack and wagon, comprises the
“True Grit” theme.

Past the “Casablanca” and “True Grit”
sets, eight-foot directors’ chairs separate
the front and back scenes.

The swing band plays on a platform at
the back of the gym.

To the left of the band, Atlanta burns as
it did in “Gone with the Wind.”

A field of lilies and poppies to the right
of the band represents the “Wizard of Oz.”

Each set in the gym
stands on risers, so ball-
goers in every area of the
gym have a view.

On thebalcony, moun-
tain peaks with the “Hol-
lywood” sign set the
background for an out-

While in past years the
hallway outside the ath-
letic department office has been closed, the
1993 Fancy Dress Committee added a new
twist.

The hallway this year is filled with pop-
corn machines and vendors.

Entering the big gym, the “Casablanca”
set is on the left.

A piano, table and chairs depict a scene
at Rick’s Cafe. Steps lead to Rick’s apart-
ment.

door cafe called “Mt.
Cafe.”

The small gym has the look of a Ginger
Rogers and Fred Astaire dance set.

Large,silver palm trees, lights and chan-
deliers surround the gym.

On the wall above the band N.R.B.Q.,
movie scenes are projected throughout the
night.

After N.B.R.Q. stops playing at 1 a.m.,
the circling spotlights outside the gym her-
ald a fireworks display.

F

  App

K

Get tanned for FD \

at MarIene’s Hairstyling &
Tanne1y- Wolff tanning beds -
10 Visits for $40

Let Our Stylists get you ready
for that Special Night with

Styles and Manicures.

ointments available or drop

by 25 N. Main St.

J

 

ljtttttts’

Fast Expert

PC  
Prlnters by
IBM
Star
Panasonlc  
Canon

Pictures
Gone With 3 Th e
the wind 0 mp Wizard of Oz
O 0 Dance Floor 0 O 0
Casablanca ""9 Gm
Statuette Pcpcom
MAIN ENTRANCE Ve"d°'
Entering
the Silver
Screen
NRBQ
Ginger Rogers
and Fred Astaire

STUDENT
DISCOUNTS
UP TO 20%

Servlce

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

 

njust over 100 years, movie—mak—
ing has exploded into a
multimillion—dollar industry and

worldwide cultural inﬂuence.
With the advancement of tech-
nology in the late 19th century,
film-making was born, and a new

era of mass communications began.

By 1895, the French were viewing the
first brief motion pictures created by the
Lumiere brothers.

One of the first innovations in the devel~
opment of the motion picture was the
Vitascope, a projection system created by

Thomas Edison and Thomas Annat.

a machine which displayed films for
one viewer at a time.
These inventions were
merely a prelude to a film-
making on a larger scale. In
1896, New Yorkers saw the
first public motion pictures
in America.
One-reelers, 10-minute
films, were developed
in 1903; they were
followed by the cre-
/' ation of makeshift
theatres, called nick-
elodeons, in 1905.

 

Edisonalso invented the Kinetoscope ,_

The History of

Harry P. Davis and John P. Harris rented
films, bought a projector, piano and screen,
and charged five cents for admission to their
theatre, “The Nickelodeon.”

The success of these theatres spread dra-
matically. By 1910, 10,000 nickelodeons
were operating in the United States.

While the nickelodeon brought enter-
tainment to the nation’s poor, moviemakers
built extravagant theatres and publicized
stars, such as Charlie Chaplin, to increase

   

  
 
 
   
   

 

U H motio picturetechn dgy
_-d tenfold with the marriage of sound

Warner Brothers created the first of the

' “talkies”when itsignedwith AT&T in 1926

to produce “The Jazz Singer.” AT&T’s
sound system allowed for a few songs and a
few minutes of dialogue.

The 1930s were the golden age of mov-
ies. Unlike the preceding decade, this era
produced films that appealed to the entire
family.

The 50-cent admission, in a time when
not much else cost so little, made movies the
most popular form of mass entertainment.

In 1946, moviegoers bought 90 million
tickets weekly, but sales drastically declined
with the rise of television.

To draw crowds back to the theatres,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

~--- Tables
Candelabra
Punch Bowls
Coolers
Tents
Dance Floors
Tuxedos
Linens
Ribbons
Balloons
Dresses
. ’ Wedding Coordinating

Flatware  .. f“ 27‘ D°s'9"

Servingware .-

Silver

China

Chafing Dishes

Glassware

Charrpagna Fountains '

Skirting /

Coffee Urns ,

Coffee Makers 1,’ >,

Portable Ba ' _/

 

Totalfy Tartiiliiiiiiiental Service

464-5720 US Hwy. 11 North Lexington, VA

Fancy Dress Specials

Q Shrimp & Scallop Scampi - $11.95

Chicken Marsala — $10.25
Both Served with Spaghetti, Salad & Bread

NEW!

Group Take-out Dinners - You can
serve your own dinner, complete with
Salad, Garlic Bread & Dessert. You
can feed a group of your friends for
as low as $5.00 a person. Call us at
least 24 hours in advance, and see
what we can do for you.

 

  
 

moviemakers increased color, violence, sex,
horror, special effects and 3-D.

Movies regained status and peaked in
1982, when weekly ticket sales rose to 22
million.

Today, the industry en-

  
  

joys the success and profit Cane” as the top film in the
of movie rentals for home history of the motion pic-
VCR showings. ture industry.

Washingt n and Lee's He saidnoteworthy films
 , Pro- over the past few years in-
fes*§”Ei:r Iiiiirrialis hn clude “Goodfellas,” “Pla—

Jennings, said that great
breakthroughs in the mo-
tion picture industry came
fromthe genius of the film-
makers, such as D.W. Griffith and Sergei
Eisenstein.

Griffith exploited the cinema for narra-
tive purposes in his film “Birth of aNation.”
It was the first Amercian film in long form,
and Griffith used original techniques to
create a visual narrative.

Eisenstein, a Soviet filmmaker, com-
bined Marxist ideals and the motion picture
to create a film which illicited intellectual
and emotional responses from the audience.

Although most critics consider “Gone
With the Wind” to be the number one film
of all time, Jennings said, it “really did
nothing in terms of film as a means of

 

 

  

BY CAMERON HUDDLESTON
.,P ' taff Writer

A traditional gathering place for Fancy Dress Weekend.
Dinner specials Friday and Saturday nights. And for a
great ending to an unforgettable weekend, join us for

Sunday Brunch starting at 12 noon.

expression.

“Good films have been produced in ev-
ery period. Maybe our memory tricks us
into thinking certain films were better than
they were,” Jennings explained.

Jennings ranked “Citizen

 

toon,” “Avalon,” “Miller's
Crossing” and “Raising Ari-
zona.”

According to the American Film Institute, the top 10
films of all time are:
1. Gone With the Wind (1939)
2. Citizen Cane (1941)
3. Casablanca (1942)
4. The African Queen (1952)
5. The Grapes of Wrath (1940)
6. One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975)
7. Singing in the Rain (1952)
8. Star Wars (1977)
-9. 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968)
10. The Wizard of 02 (1939).

 

ﬁﬁfrﬁﬁﬁikﬁﬁﬁﬁikﬁﬁirikfrﬁﬁﬁ

Have A Great

Fancy
Dress!

from

W

More than
Just a Gift Shop...

21 Nelson Street, West
Downtown Lexington
463-7222

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

  
     
 

hen the Fancy Dress Committee chose Gable as tl
movies to represent this year’s FD Product
theme,“CelebratingtheSilverScreen,” dircctedby
they selected four endearing classics: nine major
“Gone With the Wind,” “Casablanca,” a black pr
“The Wizard of Oz” and
“True Grit.”

“When we started talking about mov-
ies as a possible theme, we started talking
about older movies versus newer mov-
ies,” FD Committee Chairman Virginia
Reeves said. “We wanted classic movies
that everyone would know and appreci-
ate. We wanted movies that were classics
of their time.”

“Gone With the Wind” is perhaps the
most famous of the four movies. It premiered in 1939, lanta, and
and was one of the highest grossing films in history. arresting a

The story of the trials and tribulations of a young the glow c
woman during the CivilWar era, adapted from Margaret look and k
Mitchell’s novel, “Gone With the Wind” starred Vivien -—**‘
Leigh as the unforgettable Scarlett O’Hara and Clark

 

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

\

"\

\

3-$1:

  

I’ ‘
v’ ‘N
4" ‘Q
o /"—_“~,
o ’,’ l‘
I
I

N

s
\

v

0

C
\
\
\ _ s

. k\\

 

,/

 

ittee chose
year’s FD
er Screen,”
lg classics:
lsablanca,”

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

ed in 1939,
1 history.

of a young
11 Margaret
rred Vivien
l and Clark

 

 

 

  
 

Gable as the incorrigible Rhett Butler.

Produced by movie mogul David O. Selznick and
directed by Victor Fleming, “Gone With the Wind” won
nine major Oscars, including the first Oscar awarded to
a black performer (Hattie McDaniel, for her role as
Mammy).

The most difficult task in making the
movie was finding an actress who could
fill the formidable shoes of Miss Scarlett.
After two years and 2,000 auditions,
Selznick still had not found an actress,
and filming actually began before the
role had been cast.

Selznick met Leigh, the fiancee of
Laurence Olivier, by chance on the set
during the filming of the burning of At-
lanta, and described his first view of her as “a vision of
arresting and electric beauty . . . her exquisite face lit by
the glow of the dying fires.” He later said, “I took one
look and knew that she was right . . . l’ll never recover

‘A’ See FILMS, page 11

 

 

 

 

    

DRESS '93

'(__'§{’:@ 

exington residents enjoyed a
rare taste of Hollywood Feb. 5

with the premiere of
“Sommersby,” a multimillion
dollar movie filmed mostly in
Bath County, Va., and partly in
downtown Lexington.

The film, called “vicariously dreamy”
by USA Today, received applause from
critics in national publications, as well as
from Lexington residents. “Sommersby”
stars Richard Gere and Jodie Foster, who
also received high praise.

The town provided several festivities to
celebrate the “Sommersby” premiere, in-
cluding a gala with commemorative tickets
and horse-drawn carriages for local resi-
dents who participated in the filming.

“It was great fun,” said Diane Herrick of
the Lexington Downtown Development
Association.

  

Phtos by Rick Peltz, The R/ng-tum Phi

A horse-drawn carriage takes local residents who were extras in the movie
to see the premiere at the state Theatre.

 

Many Washington and Lee students said
they enjoyed seeing the film.

“Sommersby was very well done with a
unique story that kept me thinking about it
after the movie was over,” freshman J en-
nifer Beam said.

The W&L student who was probably
most interested in the film’s premiere was
Chris Albert. He served as a location intern
for nine weeks during last summer’s shoot
of the production.

“When we filmed in Lexington, we had
to do everything from crowd control to
talking to shopkeepers to make sure they
knew what was going on,” Albert explained.
“We couldn't have any 20th-century activ-
ity in town.

“It’s a really beautiful, romantic story.
lt’s worth seeing just for the scenery,” said
Albeit, who helped with special effects on
the set. “A large portion of the people who

  
  

m;C,¢,,;;,GE Satin Shoes dyed in 1 hour
99¢ Shoe Shine with this ad

When Fancy Dress is over,
Rockbridge Music will still
be here, willing to cater to
all your musical needs.

Diana Madsen Schofield
205 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

    

at

       
      
   
 

 

Shoe Fixers 3 West Nelson St. 464-6666

 

Phone (703) 4535455

   

 

 

-Rent for $48.00 Basic
$52.00 Full Dress
-Buy for $235 - Including Free
Tux Shirt

 
 
 
  

5 NEW -
omsstcts

  

111 W. Nelson St.

No Deposit Charge Visa

    

For Your 1993 Fancy Dress TUXEDOS

(And Never Have To Rent Again)

COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

Mastercard Amex

   

 

 

I know came out of the movie in tears and

really enjoyed it.”

Albert was also an active participant in

the premiere events.

“The Lexington gala that
they organized was really
fun and attended by a very
diverse group of people —
older, younger, college kids,
a dean from W&L and
people from VMI,” Albert
said.

Albert said the highlight
of his experience was see-

ing his name in the credits at the end of the

film.

“I didn’t know whether or not it was
going to be there, and when I saw it, it made
nine weeks of really hard work well worth

it,” he said.
Albert said working on

was a rewarding experience.

“I was excited because the movie busi-

ness is definitely where I ’m headed, and to

be a 19-year-old sophomore and have your

 

BY MATTHEW DILLARD
Phi Staff Writer

first movie credit is really
great,” Albert said.

National publications
have joined in the praise for
“Sommersby.”

USA Today com-
mended the film for its
“graceful job of transfer-
ring the domestic dilemma
first posed in the French

import ‘The Return of Martin Guerre’ to

the post-Civil War South.”

Foster’s perfonnance won admiration.
“What sells the film isn’t the period
details or the lush shots of tobacco as high

“Sommersby”

it See ‘SOMMERSBY,’ page 10

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES. HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5
31 S.Main St., Lexington 463-3355

0
’ 0
' 0
' 0
' 0
' 0
0 5 Pool Tables - 50¢ a game .
: Basketball :
0 Video Games .
: Pinball 0
. Air Hockey :
0 Snack Bar .
Q *Coming soon “Club Shark” Regulation size pool table. .
. Separate Room. Members Only. (Reservations, too! )* .
0 *Or1ly 50 feet from The Bone* .
0

  

 

 

Keith Gibsi she door f Ptlwohlrab as enter the State tr

 

the premiere. Gibson and Wohirab served as historical consultants for

‘Sommersby.'

 

Ever Get Somebodi
lotullrwastedi

 

FRIENDS UﬂN'l [El FRIENDS
DRIVE UHUNK.

U S. Department oi Transportation

§}Oi'..?ll' TIME

974?  C,\D--‘Q’

/. . .
"“"”"Nc',r'-rut vtRC*‘“\?s

20 South Randolph Street 463-6414;

 
   
 

pg 7.

.-.53 ‘ "*' ‘-*.’..».a- 3 "7f1"‘.’»"':3i'. -'=“‘

 

 

  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
  
 

    

.. I’/4“'V'!¥ -.v.

 

 

 

Playbill, fire

fter a year of absence, the
Playbill and fireworks will
once again be a part of the
Fancy Dress festivities.
To save money, neither
the Playbill nor the fire-
works were a part of Fancy Dress ’92.
“The Playbill was reintroduced because
it serves the important purpose of explor-
ing the theme, gives students, especially
the freshmen, a chance to learn about the
annual event, and helps everyone antici-
pate the festivities,” said junior Cameron
Howell, head of the Playbill Committee.
FD Chairman Virginia Reeves said she

and Vice Chairman Chip
Ridge thought the two
elements added to the
overall atmosphere of
Fancy Dress.

The Playbill, a small,
pamphlet—like book,
gives the history of FD,
explains the ball’ s theme, and describes the
decorations and the bands that will play
during the weekend.

In addition, the Playbill gives recogni-
tion to all of the people who helped orga-
nize and produce Fancy Dress.

“One change in the Playbill is that stu-

 

dents no longer have to purchase it, as they
have in past years. Instead, students will
receive it free when they
purchase tickets and other
Fancy Dress memora-
bilia,” Reeves said.
AlsoretumingtoFancy
Dress is the fireworks.
Reeves said the com-
mittee decided to include
ﬁreworks again because

they added to the overall atmosphere of

FD.
“They make Fancy Dress seem more
than just a small time prom and indicate a

Bv LISA JOHNSON
Phi Contributing Writer

 

 

big celebration,” she said.

In the past, the fireworks have not been
announced beforehand, and
many ball-goers have missed
them. This year, however,
the spectacle will be an-
nounced to gather a large
crowd of spectators. The first
fireworks will explode at 1
a.m., after the bands stop
playing at the dance.

“The fireworks will be the grand finale
of the ball,” Reeves said. “It will be like the
apple dropping in Times Square on New
Year's Eve.”

 

Hollywood visits Lexingt.

if ‘SOMMERSBY’, from page 9

as Abraham Lincoln’s eye,” according to
USA Today. “lt’s the sheer, unadulterated
pleasure of watching a cameo-lovely Jodie
Foster go all giddy over prodigal hubby
Gere.”

Rolling Stone agreed. “Foster is ex-
traordinary. It’s not the dialogue, but
Foster’s eloquent eyes that tell us whether
Laurel is giving herself to a husband or to
a con-man who has won her bniised heart.”

In a Warner Brothers press release, Fos-
ter described her character of Laurel as

tough, stubborn, proud and rebellious.

“She is an unconventional woman in an
era guided by convention,” Foster said of
her character. “So she is thoroughly pri-
vate, someone who betrays very little of
who she really is in order to safeguard
herself, her vulnerability, her desires.”

CriticsalsopraisedGere’sperforrnance.
“This is Gere’s most passionate perfor-
mance since ‘An Officer and A Gentle-
man,’” Rolling Stone said.

“Each character lives consciously or
subconsciously with a mask. It is the
falling off of the masks which provides the

Flasks
Ray-Bans
Redwing Boots

Alum -

Tuxedos for Sale and Rental
Fancy Cummerbund Sets

W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars & Leashes

Since 1963 »
Student Charge Accounts Available
463-5383

iﬂmniia

entertainment of the piece,” Gere said in a
press release.

“Sommersby” was directed by I on
Amiel, who called the film “a truly extraor-
dinary love story, one in which love is
possibly more important than life itself.”

Producer Amon Milchan said in a press
release that he had been passionate about
ﬁlming “Sommersby” for some time.“It is
a great and timeless saga that incorporates
all the great elements of love stories.

But Foster said, “Sommersby is about
much more than love. “It touches on truths
about family, honor and faith in humility.”

 

Affordable Elegance in Dining
Entrees Starting at $9.95
Reservations Recommended
(703) 366-2444

 

 
   
   

OUR FABU

Witch, was severely bu

FILMS

er in Casablanca who must sacri-
‘ ' collaborator during

1k FILMS, from page 7

from that first look.”

“The Wizard of 02,” released the same
year as “Gone with the Wind,” has become
a requisite childhood experience and is
seen over and over again.

Adapted from the book by Frank L.
Baum, “The Wizard of Oz” is the tale of the
adventures of Dorothy, a young girl who is
carried away by a tornado to the magical =~-
land of Oz, where she befriends the Tin 
Man, the Scarecrow and theCowardly Lion.

Together they fight the Wicked Witch
of the West before traveling to the Emerald
City to see the Wizard of 02, the only
person who can help Dorothy return to
Kansas.

     
 

ultimate romantic gesture
e woman he loves for the

  

  

gave the producers

 

, neither the writers,
knew how the movie

 
 
   

rtedly drank alcohol

stories and threw
d at crew members.
idgets got so drunk
0 a toilet and had to

  
    
   

3 (1 two versions of the
ergman leaves with
in which she stays
d ending was never

    
     
 
   
 
  

       
    
 
 
 
 

Although Judy Garland has been for- nca1ledAmerica’s
ever identified with the part of Dorothy, rloved movie. ree Oscars and
she was not the first choice for the role — Critics all of the elements that ost often quoted

the producer originally wanted Shirley
Temple, but she was unavailable. Sixteen-
year-old Garland won a special Oscar for
her perfonnance.

The production of the movie was not
without its mishaps, some humorous and
some tragic. Margaret Hamilton, who so
convincingly played the role of the Wicked

Here’s looking at
have Paris,” and
he Bogart never

this year’s FD Ball is the western “True
Grit,” starring John Wayne, Dennis Hop-
per, Robert Duvall and Kim Darby.

Alison.
The movie is the story of an American

    

'~. ._ .4‘

FOR FD

The movie was an immediate hit after
its 1969 release and is one of the highest
grossing westerns of all time.

Set in Indian territory in the Old West,
“True Grit” is the adventure ofa young girl,
Darby, seeking revenge for her father’s
murder. Darby hires Wayne, an overweight
U.S. marshal with an eye patch, to bring the
killer to justice.

Many view Wayne’s role as a satire of
his previous roles in westerns such as
“Stagecoach” and “The Searchers.”

Movie historians call “TrueGrit” a land-
mark film because it represents the transi—
tion from old-style Hollywood actors, such
as Wayne, to a younger generation of ac-
tors, including Duvall and Hopper, who
were moving up in the ranks of Hollywood
stardom.

The two generations of actors often
clashed over their disparate approaches to
the craft of acting.

Wayne won an Oscar for his perfor-
mance as Rooster Cogbum, an award many
say recognizes not only his work in “True
Grit,” but his entire career. In his accep-
tance speech at the awards ceremony,
Wayne told the audience, “If I’d ’a’ known
that, I ’d ’a’ put on a patch 35 years earlier.

§

 

  
 

  

F.D. istoo

 
   
    
  

 
   
    
   
 

     
    
 
 

  
 
      
   
 

specialtobe \\ ‘I, Q‘ .
taken lightly. p  /4 €V€I1t, SO
"-‘ I ; ' '. ;».,'% - (9:
Ask thatspecial  '  memorable
person with style. >5   
.3, _.'_:.4;-_' .219 .“ _

Send anEnglish , r ' If‘ '

Country Garden

inavase ,

whateverittakes

toshow

him/herthatyou

 
 

mean it

 
 
 

  

  
  

WA L K  R
HOUSE

Restaurant;

  

ﬂorist to The Homestead
463-9841

.4
>——<

Ten E. Nelson

Lexington

Fancy Dress is a memorable

The Willson-Walker House
30 N. Main Street
463-3020

_ Reservations now being accepted for
' Lunch and Dinner! Make your reservations
early and avoid the last minute rush!

The_.___



 

/////////////A

dine at a
restaurant!

I.III//////'/////////////////////////”’

 
 

n ¢.—..'_::d.

  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

MAPLE HAL
DINING ROOM

Open 7Nights a week
Reservations Recommended
463-4666

 

\\

 

@112 ‘ﬂing-tumlﬁhi

wisﬁes e7/eryone

a safe and Happy

 

 

   

   

  
   
  
  
  

  

 
  

\\

 

 
 

Dﬁ/’l’VE9R..$‘/'4L£.E‘YG>’USI9VESS SEQCVICTS
203 N sum Street
463-9455

RESUMES
COVER LETTERS & ENVELOPES

PAPERS, APPLICATIONS, FORMS

  

UPS SHIPPING, FAX SERVICE

FAST SERVICE

 

