  

5 stand in a tiny balcony, while

V Prize winning journalist Nan

  

im./‘i
Co¢"'

‘me uurvsasmr tti;rr‘Ar'z”*?

wnstzrmon it use ti;ww’ere‘s‘iii‘

lE.)‘l!~::3‘i'0?J, wt. 24.455

JAN 15 I993

’ ‘A. .»

  
 

Hitting A High Note

Guest conductor,
clarinetist highlight
upcoming Lenfest events

The Thrill of Victory

Genrals break losing streak with

win against Hornets in Hoops

 ’ trip: at

g-tum lﬂlti

_ VOLUME 92, NO. 14

Journalist .
battled
prejudices

, By KRISTA TAURINS
Phi Contributing Writer

2

for many years, women re-
-‘ porters assigned to cover National
Press Club conferences had to
their male counterparts sat in the

‘ spacious ballroom area, Pulitzer

Rgbertson told a Lee Chapel
crowd Monday.
_‘ “We stood up there, packed
‘ together, lunchless, unable to ask
, questions,” the former New York
Times reporter said. “We were
‘ hot, we were jammed together,
. there were no seats. Not only
that, but we could barely hear the
speakers. Now that was real dis-
crimination.”

Robertson, a self-described
“uppity woman and proud femi-
nist” joined other female Times
re orters to form the Women’s
C cus in 1972, which filed a
sexual discrimination lawsuit
against the Times.

“The core of our complaint
was that women were being paid
thousands of dollars less a year

s.

' WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

for doing the same work as men
g inQ"he New York Times, and that
women were repeatedly training

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

men to become their bosses,”
Robertson said.

The caucus also found that no
women held positions of impor-
tance at the Times. Instead,
wOmen reporters were assigned
to cover “food, family, fashion,
and fumishings.”

“When I came to Washing-
ton, did I cover the president of
the United States? I covered the
first lady, her children and their

T U see TIMES, page 6

 

“Hi! I don’t think we’ve met...have

we?..Yeah...Maybe?..No...Oh, well, if
not it’s nice to meet you.”

Women’s Rush concludes tonight

and freshmen and actives alike say
they will not miss most of it.

“Sometimes I think that if I have to

tell one more person where I’m from or
what mymajor is, I'm going to scream,”
one freshman said.

Even with over 150 rushees and

hundreds of sorority actives crowding
into the University Center each night,

there have been no major problems or
mix-ups, Parthellenic Council Presi-
dent Carrie Eubanks said Wednesday.

Rho Chi Kate Townley, whose job
during Rush is to lead her small group
of rushees from party to party, said
everyone seerfls to be having a‘ good
time.

“The rooms have been ﬁne and
nobody’s passed out yet,” Townley
said. “People are staying up late and
scrambling to make all the prepara-
tions perfect, which is normal.”

But some freshman women looking
forward to pledging a sorority say the
fomialities of Rush can be tiresome.

“It’s really hot [at the parties] and

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Rushees prepare between Bush parties in the University Center Tuesday night. Tonight is the last
night of women’s Rush.

Rush elicits screams

I’m losing my voice,” one freshman
rushee said Monday. “But I’m glad I'm
meeting so many new people.”

Eubanks said that after tonight’s
Preference Night, sororities and rush-
ees will choose each other in a “mutu-
ally matching process.” Each sorority
will have a quota of pledges that is
determined by dividing the number of
women attending Preference Night by
four, Eubanks said. At presstime, the
quota had yet to be determined.

Parthellenic Publicity Chair Joanna
Love said she's glad that the end of the
long week is in sight.

“ [Rush] is fun, but everybody’s glad
when its over,” she said.

Class of ’92: W&L social scene lacking

.g By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

“If you could change one aspect of
' student social life at W&L, what would
it be?”
When 100 members of the class of
’92 answered this question on the
Senior Exit Survey, 85 percent said
they were dissatisfied with some as-
pect of the social scene at Washington
‘ and Lee, citing problems in the frater-
nity system and in the Honor System’s
ap lication to social situations.
t alf of those who found faults
with the fraternity system said they
' were unhappy with the recent admin-
t istrative interference and some cur-
rent students agree.
“Our administration has been plot-
t  a slow, gradual and complete
over of W&L’s fraternity system.
‘ I’m glad I only have one more year

«College politicos anticipate
inauguration in different ways

left here. Hopefully [I’ll graduate]
before the ‘Naziﬁcation’ is complete,”

‘Should I go to a fraternity party or a
fraternity party? ’ ” sophomore frater-

juniorDoug Shepard nity member Brian
said. McClung said.

The other half of The graduates
those dissatisfied alsopointedoutsome
with the fraternities shortcomings with
believe the school put the Honor System.
too much emphasis The Honor Sys-
on fraternities in gen- tern inspired a “spirit

eral. Half the inde-
pendents who re-
sponded to the study
said being an inde-
pendent had a nega-
tive effect on their so-
cial lives.

Even current fra-
ternity members
agree that most so-
cial events center
around fraternities.

    

Mcclung

of trust” in only 64
percent of recent
graduates. Some re-
spondents com-
plained that the
Honor System ap-
plied to academics
studies, but not to the
social life.
“Socially it is a
joke,” one student
said in the survey. “The Honor Sys-

“When you’re going to go out on tem at W&L is virtually non-existent

a Saturday night the question is

By ROBERT WILSON
Phi Contributing Writer

groups.

1

* W&L’s College Democrats will travel to Wash-
ington D.C. next week to take part in inaugural

festivities for President-
~ elect Clinton.

“A few of us will be strategies to countermea-
“ going up on Sunday for a Sures by the new admin-
reunion on the Mall istration. group President

I which will involve a cel- Ted Elliott Said.

ehation of America’s

diversity with arts and

crafts and things,” Col-

lege Democrats Presi-
dent Cottie Miles said.

The festivities on the
‘ Mall will be followed by
tagathering at the Lin-

coln Memorial, Miles
' said.

, . Miles said about 15 College Democrats will
travel to Washington Tuesday to witness the inau-
‘guration ceremony and participate in activities
surrounding it, Miles said. The ceremony will take
phtce at 11:30 Wednesday moming and will be
followed by a parade down Pennsylvania Avenue

at 2:30 p.m.

College Republicans, vowing not to hibernate
until 1996, also have plans for inauguration week.
In aTuesday night meeting entitled “On the Eve

 

ing days in reaction to Clinton’s administration.
“Watch out for the College Republicans. We

will become very active on campus in the coming

days, as well as working on various state cam-

paigns,” Elliot said.

Miles said the members of College Democrats
will carpool to D.C. for the inauguration in several

_ Elliott also said students should watch for Col-
lege Republican T-shirts, which say: “Don’tblame
me, I voted for Bush.”

when applied to Greek organizations

and social situations.”

Academically, the survey showed
that students approved of the
university’s general education re-
quirements.

In addition, a W&L education
sparked new and creative interests in
76 percent of those who answered the
questionnaires. About 75 percent of
the graduates said their extracurricu-
lar activities were rewarding.

“Playing basketball lets me meet
girls from other schools and see other
campuses, too,” sophomore Kather-
ine Boozer said.

Copies of the Senior Exit Survey
results are on reserve in the Univer-
sity Library for anyone who would
like to read it.

Members of the W&L commu-
nity may also obtain copies from Pro-
fessor of History Robert W. McAhren,
chairman of the Institutional Effec-
tiveness Committee.

JANUARY 14, 1993

EC to review
White Book

By-FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The EC Monday created a committee
to propose a formal Honor System review
process and clarify the process for amend-
ing the White Book. \

Executive Committee President Josh
MacFarland said he would like the new
section to require-an Honor
System review every four
years. That way, he said,
every student generation will
have the opportunity to re-
view the Honor System.

MacFarland said the last
Honor System review was
three years ago and followed
an open trial. He said a peri-
odic review process would
be better than a review
sparked by the controversy
surrounding an open trial.

“You want to take a step
back from [an open trial],” MacFarland
said.

MacFarland also said the amendment
process of the White Book should be more
speciﬁc. The student constitution now
says a majority vote of the EC is needed to

I amend the White Book. MacFarland be-

lieves at least a two-thirds vote should be
required.

MacFarland appointed EC Secretary
Bob Tompkins, Vice President Ames
Hutton, junior Rep. Jimmy Kull and fresh-

man Rep. Peter Agelasto to the committee  2

 

and asked them to have a proposal by
February vacation.

On Monday, the EC will review a list
of Honor System issues sent to them by
W&L Rector Stephen A. Miles.

MacFarland said he asked Miles to
compile the list of issues from letters
Miles had received concerning the Honor
System. MacFarland said the EC will dis-
cuss the issues Monday, but he doesn’t
believe they will make any
significant changes.

“I’d rather all this stuff
be done in a formal review,”
MacFarland said.

Tompkins said he be-
lieves the list of the issues is
generally good.

“Some of the [issues] we
might do well to examine
closely,” Tompkins said.
“Some of the changes
wouldn’t fundamentally
change the Honor System,
but make it clearer to those
not involved administratively with it.”

MacFarland said the list of issues the
Miles asked the EC to discuss includes the
single sanction, whether infractions should
be categorized it as major and minor;
investigation procedures; if a guilty ver-
dict should require a unanimous vote;
whether intent to commit an honor viola-
tion should be considered; and whether
the administration should play a role in
the Honor System.

MacFarland said public opinion will
be welcomeat Monday’s meeting.

New Scholars join
despite uncertainty

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Despite uncertainty over the future of
the University Scholars program, 14 fresh-
men joined its ranks this semester.

The recent appointments come at a
time when a committee of faculty and
students is conducting a review of the
program to determine whether it should
be eliminated. ‘

Committee member Alan Carter, ’95,
said the new appointments do not mean
that the pro gram will continue unchanged.

“The new appointments should not be
interpreted one way or another in terms of
having an impact on what the committee
will recommend in its report to the fac-
ulty,” Carter said.

Some faculty and administration mem-
bers have said that the program, which
allows selected students to interact more
easily with professors and each other, is
no longer necessary because the current
student body has a higher academic qual-
ity than when the program was created.

Scholars advisor John Evans said in
November that if the Scholars program is
eliminated, it will be phased out over four

years to enable all students currently en-
rolled to complete the program and gradu-
ate with honors.

The committee will report its recom-
mendation on the future of the program to
the Courses and Degrees Committee in the
spring.

The new Scholars are enrolled this term
in the first step of the University Scholars
system, a one—credit reading course. The
course consists of two books impact of the
voyages of Christopher Columbus on Latin
American culture.

Scholars will continue to take special
discussion seminars while at W&L and
must complete an honors thesis before
graduation.

Privileges of University Scholars in-
clude the option of a one—on-one tutoring
session in place of select courses, access to
a Scholars’ lounge and invitations to spe-
cial functions and speakers that come to
campus.

The new scholars are Jeanne Briggs,
Amy Carrington, Phaedra Cianciulli, Pe-
ter Dishman, S.R. Evans, Gretchen Hall,
Laura Howell, Robin King, Istvan Majoros,
Meagan Miller, William Robert, Kirk
Susong, Marina Vasilara and Peter
Weissman. '

of Apocalypse,” the Re-
publicans will discuss

The meeting will be
held at 7:30 p.m. in the
College Republicans of-
fice in the University
Center.

He said Tuesday's
meeting will include a
discussion of objectives
for the party in the com-

It doesn’t feel like January

 Photo by Mallory eyers, The Ring-tum Pi;/I

Live Drive
asking for
volunteers

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Contributing Writer

Students who take advantage
of W&L’s Live Drive should
think about pitching in to help
keep the service designed to save
lives running, the group's orga-
nizer said.

Junior Sarah Butler, head of
the organization, said Live Drive
no longer pays students to work
on big weekends, so student vol-
unteers areessential.

“It’s a volunteer organiza-
tion,” Butler said. “It’s for the
students, and if they want it, they
have to help organize it.”

Any students who wish to do-
nate theirtime can call 464-4017.

Live Drive provides rides for

Freshmen Dominique Chappelear and Margaret Hawn take advantage of unsea-
sonably warm weather Wednesday behind Robinson Hall.

students from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
on Friday and Saturday nights.
The Live Drive number is 463-
8947.

 

 

PAGE 2

    

@112 ‘iﬁittg-tttm 1311 i

Founded September 18, 1897

Justdoit

Hello.

Hello!

Yes, you. The one staring at your toes while you walk
down the Colonnade.

Are your toes so interesting that you’ve completely for-
gotten a little thing called the Speaking Tradition?

You remember the Speaking Tradition. Prospectives hear
all about it during tours of Washington and Lee, and fresh-
men learn it during orientation.

It’s really a very simple concept: W&L students acknowl-
edge each other, even when they aren’t personally ac-
quainted. It’s just one of the little things that makes this
campus warmer than all those big state schools.

But lately we’ve noticed a distinct trend on the Hill:
selective participation in the Speaking Tradition. Friends do
it. Guys tend not to. Freshmen do it. Upperclassmen tend not
to.

What the hell is going on? Do you really want W&L to turn
into just another UNIVERSITY with a bunch of students
who don’t know each other and don’t care that they don’t
know each other?

Saying hello doesn’t kill brain cells or take too much time
or drain too much oxygen from the atmosphere. And it just
might make someone feel warm and fuzzy inside.

The Speaking Tradition. Just do it.

Just do this, too

Speaking of traditions, the Calyx has been around W&L
for a long, long time. Most things grow when they age, but
the poor, malnourished Calyx just keeps getting skinnier.

Imagine yourself in, say, 40 years. You’re developing a
paunch and your kids have left the nest, and you’re feeling
nostalgic for the good ol’ days at Washington and Lee.

So you open up your cherished Calyx, only to find a bunch
of pictures of professors you’d really rather have forgotten.

And then you remember. You and your friends decided to
sleep in the day pictures were made, and you decided to
spend your $15 on beer instead of the sitting fee.

Well at least the beer gave you a physique that lasted.

But:.seriously~folks,\ every Calyx is one »class’s senior

Calyx,‘ and we all want our ‘senior Calyx to be a complete.

reminder of these halcyon days of youth.
The Calyx Picture. Just do it.

One more thing

The Executive Committee is talking about revising the
White Book, having appointed a committee to determine
how the revisions process should work.

Whatever the EC’s motive for considering a White Book
review, we are optimistic that EC members will ﬁnd their
way to determining the necessity for any revisions.

But experience from the last White Book revisions pro-
cess, two years ago, tells us that students will play a disap-
pointingly small role; the last White Book revisions gave
new meaning to student apathy.

In a My View this week, senior Bill Coffin stresses the
importantrole “the student generation involved” plays in the
Honor System. We hope the current generation won’t shirk
its responsibility to participate in the coming proceedings.

Gllir ‘iaittg-tum iﬁlti

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean 0’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Realtions Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

OPINION

~'I ;
, , .

   
  

The Ring-tum Phl, January 14, 1 993

      
   
  
  
  
  
    

Democrats breaking promises already 

WASHINGTON —— During the
campaign Democrats promised
“change,” perhaps assuming that
“change” is a synonym for “progress.”
During the transition they have proven
that it is not.

Having promised a Cabinet that
“looks like America,” Bill Clinton has
cobbled together one that looks the
way Americans fear that America is
becoming: 13 of the 18 nominees are
lawyers. Considerations of “diversity”
(different chromosomes and skin pig-
mentations, not different ideas) have
slowed the stafﬁng of the administra-
tion, but it is off to a brisk start breaking
promises.

The Bush administration ’s revision

' — upward, as usual —- of the deficit

forecast is Clinton’s excuse for retreat-
ing from his promise to halve the deﬁ-
cit in four years. He calls the projec-
tions a “revelation,” although as early
as August his campaign had the Con-
gressional Budget Office’s warnings
about the soaring deficit.

The projections are also the excuse
for scurrying crabwise away from the
promise of a middle-class tax cut. But
three weeks before the new projec-
tions, Wall Street Journal interviewers
noted that Clinton was “clearly luke-
warm to his own proposal to cut taxes
for the middle-income families.” He
said: “I don’t think there's anybody
that thinks it’s a very good way of
getting theeconomy up.” .

In Septemberthe ‘Clinton ,carii'paig;i

. said:“wesiiotiidciri'§riid;ii§§r;r§§;a§;e,§;

I 6

immediately by 10 percent.” The post-
election position, stated by adviser
Robert Shapiro, is “no new taxes on
middle-class Americans until their in-
comes are moving up again.” That is,
we won ’t take more until there is more
to take. Unless, perhaps, middle-class
Americans own automobiles.
Candidate Clinton denounced as

more than it did last year with its bank
and post office and other debacles.
Although 27 honorable Democrats
broke ranks, the bovine herd of the
other Democrats was large enough to
pass the measure giving virtually full
voting rights to the delegates from Sa-
moa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, Puerto
Rico and the District of Columbia. All

“unfair” a five del-
gasoline egates are
m ,,,_ GEORGE WILL D,,,,,,,,,,,,
crease. By - o of course.

Dec em_ Washington Post Writers Group E V e n
berhewas the bovine

saying only that a 15-cent per gallon
increase is “a lot to raise in one year.”
By Jan. 2, there was this New York
Times headline: “Gasoline Tax Rise is
Reviving: Clinton Said to be Easing
Opposition.”

The legislative branch also is be-
having badly, again.

The Senate’s Democratic leader-
ship has made former Senator Wyche
Fowler, the GeorgiaDernocratdefeated
in November, a $130,000-a-year “spe-
cial deputy” to the Federal Election
Commission. Democrats believe the
FEC should have ordered the GOP to
curtail its spending during the Novem-
ber nin-off campaign that Fowler lost.
Fowler will recuse himself from the
FEC’s continuing consideration of that
case, but his appointment is an intimi-
dating reminder to the FEC of the Sen-
ate majority's power.

 _ ”The House hashit the ground run-
 in thelrace to disgrace itself even

were so squeamish about this that they
made it ludicrous as well as unconstitu-
tional: The delegates’ votes will count
only it they don’t count. That is, the
votes will count unless they provide
the decisive margin on an issue.

This abuse of power, done for no
apparent purpose other than to adver-
tise the majority’s ability to do what-
ever it wants (until the courts cry
“Halt! ”), was hardly the only example
of the House Democrats’ growing ar-
rogance of power.

They have now given the speaker
the intimidating power to arbitrarily
add or remove any member from any
select or conference committee. Worse,
House Democrats, whose party traces
its pedigree back to Jefferson, have
jettisoned the principle that a commit-
tee “can only act when together,” a
principle whose pedigree rims back to
Jefferson ’s Manual of Parliamentary
Practice. ‘ .

Until now, a committee quorum had
to be actually present when a commit-
tee is drafting legislation because de-
liberation is a collective undertaking,
and Congress is, in theory, a deliber§-
tive body. 'I'hat theory is mocked by the
new rule, under which a “rolling quo-
rum” shall suffice.

That is, a chairman can declare that
a quorum necessary for drafting legis-
lation exists when a majority of mem-
bers has been present for any part off’:
session on the legislation.

Chairmen —— they are all Demo-
crats, of course —— can even be one-
person quorums after enough mem-
bers have passed through the commit-
tees’ rooms.

The Government Operations Com-
mittee is one of the House’s principal
instruments for oversight of the execu-
tive branch. Last year, funds for the’
committee’s investigative staff were
allocated 90 percent for Democrats, 10
percent for Republicans. Democrats
said this was justiﬁed because the Re-
publicans controlled the executiwe
branch. Anyone who believes the allo-
cation this year will be significantly
different has not been noting the might-
makes-right swagger of the unbridled
majority.

Or noting The New York Times of
Jan. 12: “And Mr. Clinton’s staff h$
said in recent days that yet another

pledge, to reduce the White House staff
by 25 percent, might be difficult to
fulﬁll.”
. © 1993, The Washington Post Writers Group

Clinton "Cabinet connects kitchen and capitol’

WASHINGTON—When President Lyndon
Johnson bragged about all the Ivy Leaguers working
for hint, Sam Rayburn said he’d feel a whole lot
better if just one of LBJ ’s best-and-brightest had

“rim for sheriff once.”

Bill Clinton is not making the same LBJ mistake.
The signature aspect of his Cabinet-to-be is not so

much its ethnic

back home.

home.

and gender diver-
sityasitspolitical
weight. Just as
Clinton recruited

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

aposse of brilliant
hotshots to win

the White House, the President-elect braved the
Christmas msh to pick an equally impressive bunch

to help him keep it.
A quick recap:

This time last year, Clinton faced a ﬁeld of
Democratic rivals for the nomination and what looked
then like a tough Republican incumbent in George
Bush. To run the best possible campaign, the young
Arkansas governor quite simply hired the best in the
business: James “the Ragin’ Cajun” Carville and

quiet sidekick, Paul Begala.

What made Carville and Begala unique was:
1) their ability to attract middle-class voters to

their Democratic clients; and

2) a winning track record marked by fresh victo-

ries in Kentucky, Georgia and New Jersey, plus a

L string of wins in Pennsylvania capped by Democrat
Harris Wofford’s come-from-behind upset of U.S.
Attorney General Dick Thombuigh in a 1991 U.S.

Senate race.

Clinton looked for the sameset of bragging rights
in recruiting his presidential team. Jimmy Carter
failed because he couldn’t connect with the politics
of Capitol Hill. George Bush failed because he

Bush.

couldn’t connect with the kitchen-table economics

The Clinton Cabinet has been selected for its
ability to make both connections: on the Hill and at

Lloyd Bentsen, who will be 72 in February, has
been winning elections for a half century, from
county judge to U.S. Congress,
where he served (as he once re-
minded Dan Quayle) with the
young John F. Kennedy, to the
U.S. Senate, which he entered by
beating fellow Texan George

A secret to Bentsen’s success has been his ability
to connect with the average family on bread-and-
butter issues. As chairman of the Finance Commit-

cares about what the folks back home  That

attentiveness to grassroots politics is one reason that

the eight-terrn congressman is equally popular on
Capitol Hill. Speaker Tom Foley and House Demo-

craticleader Dick Gephardt know Panettanot as soul:

bureaucratic nurnber-cnmcher but as a colleague who,
just like them, knows what it means to seek re-
election every two years.

Picking a veteran politician as his budget director
is Bill Clinton’s way of saying he wants his spending
and tax decisions to sell, not just in the dank halls of
Capitol Hill but also in the lush farmlands and coastal
communities of Northern California.

Ron Brown, Clinton ’s new commerce secretary, is

tee, for example, he champi-

counts, one of the few tax faced a ﬁeld of Democratic convincedthattheirPresi-
breaks most middle-class rivajs for the nomination dentis creating economic
families haveevermanaged to . hope,andnotjustforthose
en,-°y_ and what looked then like a who missed out in me 6,. .

votes back home.

oned the return of full tax de-
ductions for money deposited
in Individual Retirement Ac-

Bentsen wins in Washing-
ton, in other words, because
he never loses touch with the
prime currency of Capitol Hill:

Leon Panetta, 54, is another
pro.Peopletalkaboutthe Cali-
fomia congressman as a defi-
cit “hawk,” a legislator seri-
ous about reining in the
country's ﬁscal excess. He is. But Panetta is also a
Democrat with the proven talent for convincing a
middle-class, socially diverse constituency that he

another impressive politician. As chairman of the
Democratic National Committee, Brown got the two-
winged party to ﬂy a winning course the last 12

months. As a member of
the Cabinet, he will b:

This time last year, Clinton

tough Republican incum-
bent in George Bush. To run
the best possible campaign,
the young Arkansas gover-
norquite simply hired the
best in the business....

asked to do the same: keep
down-and-out Democrats

’80s; also, keep the new
President aware of what
folksinthe neighborhoods
are saying and feeling.
While Bill Clinton de-
serves credit for forming
a Cabinet that “looks likg

for sheriff.”

America, ”he’s also made
sure there are plenty of

people around him who lcnow what it means to “run

® 1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Kindness can stamp out stereotypes ’ -

MY VIEW .
By James Hambrick, ’94

Everyone knows the dangers of ap-
plying stereotypes, but everyone does
it anyway. Each and every person I
know, including myself, has certain
prejudices and a working idea of the
way the world works. And sometimes,
these prejudices just don't apply.

As students here, we “fit” into a
model: rich, arrogant snobs who ride
into town, get drunk, rip Lexington to
pieces, and ride out again. We are
victimized by this stereotype, but we
victiniize the town, too. I've heard a
thousand times that Lexington wouldn't
be here without W&L. No one ever
seems to consider that W&L wouldn’t
be here without the town.

These stereotypes create an artifi-
cial distance that no one seems willing
to bridge. We don't really need to look
far to dispel the W&L stereotype. The
students can speak for themselves, but
more often than not, they only speak to
themselves; by countering the stereo-
type in their own peer group, they

preach only to the converted. We don’t
reach into the community to build stron-
ger relationships, and counter some
stereotypes.

Now, some students at Washington
& Lee are

munity, as an exemplary kindergarten
teacher. Now, however, the child’s
time has come, and she has had to take
off work to see the child through her
final hours. Unfortimately, her love

and emotional

reaching _ , , strengtliwillnot
across the This IS a Call to dispel the pay the bills_
gar» A stereotypes of everyone in This“ is Where
woman in th .t hether the nch, arro-
the commu- _e Fommunl _y9 W gant snobs”
 Siisan within or outside the stu- $2: inzs the

1115, IS In Wlm
mubla Her dent body. Stereotypes are Team will be
c 1, i 1 .1 , not good, but they re real. conducting a
Kristen, at ° 9 - ° ' 9 24- hour Swim-
birth Suﬁ Susan Elkin ssituationisn t Amwmomise
fered from good, but it’s real. Here is money to pay
disease with the bills and at-
a;,fe,,xpec,- our chance to change both ,e,,,pm,g,,,e,,,,,
my °f these situations at least a S°“‘° °f ‘h°
around a _ wages she will
month. This little f0!‘ the better. lose this month.
week, the Anysuppon we
child is two can give to the

years old. This woman has carried the
child through two arduous years with
love. Above and beyond her love for
her child, Susan has given to the com-

swim team, or anything we can do on
our own, to see this woman makes it
through this extremely tough time, is
vital.

    

Because Lexington, believe it or
not, is a vital part of the W&L experi-
ence. instead of cracking jokes about
the range of entertainment opportuni-
ties and food selection here, consider
what it adds to your experience -3-
remember it was part of what brought
you here for what is arguably four of
the most inﬂuential years of your life.

This woman, a recent transplant
from out-of-state, has perhaps less rea;
son than any of us to love this commu-
nity, but she has proven her dedicatioi9,
and she gives us a bridge to reach out to
the community and say thank you.

This is not a call for a debate on
what the W&L student body does or
doesn’t do for Lexington. This is a call
to dispel the stereotypes of everyone in
the community, whether within or cu!
side the student body. Stereotypes are
not good, but tliey’re real. Susan Elkin’s

situation isn’t good, but it’s real. Here ,

is our chance to change both these
situations at least a little for the better.

If you wantto help, get in touch with
Coach PageRemillard, Department 06
Athletics, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, 463-8694.

ery-person-for-himseU .

s.

   
   
      

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

So, ABC has a new weapon in their
war against “those notorious keg par-
4 ties,” huh? Should this strike fear into
the hearts of the beer-drinkingest,
pzﬁty-hardiest college students in the
western civilized world? Hell no!

Through the ages, Washington and
Lee students have been selectively bred
in order to produce the perpetrators of
the world’s most extravagant alcohol
parties. Scientiﬁc studies show that if
armebae are allowed to roam freely in
a petrie dish full of Budweiser, the
single-celled organisms will eventu-
ally evolve into W&L students, com-
plete with Duck Heads and wom-out
baseball caps. Further studies indicate
‘ that W&L students can derive their
, emire U.S. Recommended Daily Al-
lowances of all essential nutrients from
i just six cans of cheap brewhaha. Once,
several respected scientiﬁc minds came
up with some cockamamy experiment
that involved placing 12 W&L stu-
dents in a sealed environment for three
waks. After the three weeks were up,
the students emerged from their
sub-environment completely intoxi-
'« cated. Dr. Evan Von Schmendrick
commented, “Man, those W&L boys
' are a rowdy bunch! Evidently we mis-
calculated what the test group would
dogwith the basic grains, yeast and

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1993

water we gave them in hopes that they
might make food.”

My basic point here is that no matter
the hardships W&L students must over-
come, they can always ﬁnd a new way
to get drunk. Spos predicts that the new
keg law will not
make a difference

01’ aluminum cans? It takes a lot of
aluminum to ﬁll the demand for all of
those cans. Here’s where Spos’ plan
comes in: First, everyone buy stock in
aluminum companies like Alcoa. Sec-
ond, buy loads and loads of beer in
aluminum cans.
The increased

demand for alu-

OPINION

Spos lectures on avoiding new keg law

with regard to how
often W&L stu-
dents will pickle
themselves.

Rather, it will
dictate the new
ways in which stu-
dents will get
wasted. Once the
W&L student
body sets its mind
to finding loop-
holes in the new
law, students will
be completely
unstoppable.
Please allow Spos
to prime the pump
and start the ideas
ﬂowing:

IDEA #1- No

so whaddya say we go
out there and prove to
them that W&L students
are more than beer - swig-
ging idiots. Let ’s prove to
ABC that we’re beer -
swigging idiots who can
make complete morons
out of those high-ranking
officials who spend years
trying to write new laws
that prevent us from hav-
ing a good time.

minum will
cause the stock
to skyrocket.
Third, use our
dividend checks
to buy more beer.
See how this
works?

IDEA #3-
Write to the big
beer companies.
Tellthemthatwe

..won’t buy their

products unless
we can buy it in
kegs. They, in
turn, send lobby-
ists with huge
biceps and Ital-
ian lastnames to

kegs? How about party balls? Party
balls can be a lot of fun. Just think of
them as smaller kegs. Also, when you
and your friends kill a party ball, you
can cut out the bottom, stick it on your
head and pretend to be “the Great
Gazoo” from The Flintstones.

IDEA #2- What’s wrong with good

shake up the ABC. Next thing you
know, we’re back to having 27-keggers
at Zollman’s.

IDEA #4- Alternative beverages.
Drink lots of bourbon instead. How
about Southern Comfort? Jagermeister
is pretty cool too.

Eventually, beer distributers will

 

PAGE 3

catch word of who is responsible for
their declining market share and the
aforementioned Italian goons will pro-

. duce a solution.

IDEA #5- Disguise your keg. Glue
yellow yam to the keg in order to
sirnulatehair.Dressitupinafull-length
gown. Use your imagination. If the
ABC officer can't prove that it's a keg,
he can't bust you:

ABC G,uy—-Hey you! Is that a com
munal source of alcohol ?!

Frat Guy’-— How dare you call my

F D. date a communal source of
alcohol! Now look what you've done.
You've been so rude, you've rendered
her speechless!

ABC Guy — Er, uh...um.

It’s truly a sad thing that ABC has
brought it to this. It's obvious that they
are speciﬁcally targeting college and
high school keg parties with the new
law.

So whaddya say we go out there and
prove to them that W&L students are
more than beer-swigging idiots. Let’s
provetoABCtliatwe’rebeer-swigging
idiots who can make complete morons
out of those high-ranking officials who
spend years trying to write new laws
that prevent us from having a good
time.

Long live Anheuser-Busch!

  
    

NIY VIEW
‘ By Bill Cofﬁn, ’93

‘ Dear Mrs. McCord,

.I am responding, as requested, to your charge of
“the responsibility of examining and debating the
imperfections in a dogma everyone at W&L sancti-
ﬁe but few truly understand.” I have read and re-
read your article, the White Book, and have dis-
M cussed my feelings with my fellow students.

Your cry for a review of W&L’s Honor System is
poorly founded, nor do you even have the right to
cast judgment upon how this student body conducts
its affairs. You state that because a doctrine is old that
it is not necessarily without ﬂaw, backing up your
argiment by highlighting the Honor System’s most
glaring inequities. Indeed, the Honor System is not
without a certain unavoidable unfairness that can be
expected from any institution created by the fallible

something thafeach -student ‘wh‘o‘e'nrolls at W&L,
which included your daughter, complies with by
viiQ.'ue of choosing to attend, thereby approving the
behavior expected of us. I

You cpmplain your daughter is a victim of her
ignorance conceming a system few at W&L “truly
understand.” Any student enjoying the privilege to
study here is obligated not only to act within the
purposefully vague parameters established by the
M Hqior System, but equally to study, and thus “truly
understand" it. Any student who does not, (i .e. your
daughter) deserves whatever fate they bring upon
themselves as a result of their “complacency.” If
your daughter acted ignorantly and thus brought
’ about her own academic min because she, unfamil-
iar with the mechanics of the Honor System, failed to
acumder the standards established by it, then she has
forfeited her right to attend W&L. As unfair as that
may seem, it is a reality every W&L student will-
ingly lives under by attending this magniﬁcent
university.

Undoubtedly, if I were to ever feel wrongly
accused and convicted of an honor violation, I’d
prtjiably feel as bitter as you do concerning your
daughter (who, as I understand it, comes from a long
line of W&L alumni — I ﬁnd it hard to believe that
the Honor System had not been fully explained to
your daughter previous to her enrollment here). But,
I realize the vestigial risk of judicial error and hap-
pily subject myself to it day after day, much as your
4darghter did.

1 hands of humanity. The Honor System is, lioRv‘t=L’x>té'r‘:‘

We attend W&L to earn an education, become
adults, and most importantly, to subject ourselves to
certain ideological living conditions, which, if prop-
erly met, arm us with something most of the world
outside W&L grievously lacks —honor. I so strongly
support such a goal that I easily excuse the few errors
a human institution such as the Honor System is
liable to make — accepting even the potential victim
of myself ~— in lieu of the overwhelming good the
system otherwise produces. I do not believe, how-
ever, that your daughter’s case is just another casu-
alty in any “legion of the wrongly convicted”; she
committed an honor violation and was expelled for
doing so.

The White Book states three very important dis-
tinctions which I suspect you have either overlooked
or misinterpreted. “Persons attending Washington
and Lee must realize that our commitment to the
principle of honor is ﬁrm.” Obviously so, as evi-
denced  your daughter’s dismissal last spring.

‘Hdvlév‘er;’whIat"y'<.>'u jfa11.,tr.> un.d;ér.staric1.,.arr<1’;the,r.<:E,2‘y ;

complain against, is that “under our system students
must not lie‘, cheat, steal or misrepresent themselves
in any way that is considered dishonorable by the
student body generation involved.” Read that again,
Mrs. McCord, because for all your touted research, I
doubt that you have read that passage with sufficient
care.

The foundation of the Honor System is not a
sharply deﬁned outline of rules. Instead, it concerns
itself with several vaguely termed offenses, the exact
meanings of which, by their very nature as student-
created expectations, undergo constant examination
and reinterpretation by the “student generation in-
volved.” Your daughter’s honor violation might not
have been considered as such by “the generation
involved” 20 years ago, or by those yet to attend this
university, but at the exact moment when your daugh-
ter attended W&L, she committed an offense as
deﬁned by “the generation involved,” which in-
cluded herself. I scoff at your accusations of student
complacency when your daughter helped deﬁne the
very charge which caused her dismissal. I wonder,
Mrs. McCord, has she fallen under your careful eye
of scrutiny as well?

The White Book also asserts that “no violation of
this trust is too small to be ignored, for we understand
that honor is not measured by degree.” That is the
very spirit on which this university lives and breathes.
Your statement that the dismissal adhered to only the
“letter” of the law and not its “spirit” is wrong. When
your daughter committed her so-called “error in

lhterviews and Photos
By Troy Hill

 

‘Scott Howe, ’93, Hurst, Texas —-
.“Until W&L,graduates saturate the

gene pool.”
3 longer.”

 

Pa. — “1,0()0 years.”

 

will sup

‘Student grapples with honor questions

judgement" she violated the trust of every student
attending this university. It matters not if you feel she
did not intend to deceive; she inﬂicted equal damage
by making her peers unable to dust her. Her inability
to abide by the Honor System thus displayed that she
had no place here.

Furthermore, the institution that dismissed your
daughter from W&L was an Honor System, not an
honor code. We students do not agree to act under a
crystalline set of rules. That is a code, and also is
incapable of properly addressing honor. Contrarily,
we live under the inﬂuence of a constantly
reinterpreted authority determined by ourselves, an
ever-adapting, ever—replenishing system. IT is we,
the “generation involved" who redefine the expecta-
tions we must live with every time an honor violation
is reported. We hardly need you to remind us of a duty
whichis being constantly served. If any are compla-
cent, it is those who fail, through lack of effort, to

 .“t,ruly understand" their Honor System, which obvi-
,.5',QiASiy,iIl¢ludes yo1_1r.d,aught§-.r,   _clairn,th_a.t,__.

she is a Victim or'hé'r5'w‘n ignorance.

I’m sure you mean well, but since you have no .

directtie to this university as a student, you really
have no place or justification in suggesting how the
students’ treatment of ourselves should be changed,
much less offer that we examine the Honor System
according to your desires, such as emulating the
honor codes of other schools (e.g. UVa). The Honor
System is indeed harsh and structurally imperfect,
but these are points only the students affected by it
have a right to address, not lookers-on such as your-
self. As close as you are to being a W&L student,
having both marriedand given birth to one, you still
lack the distinction and subsequently the right to
comment on the inequities of our system. If your
husband would like to address the Honor System then
let him do it. Otherwise, you have no true understand-
ing of our community and hence, no business invad-
ing it with your myopic insight.

Finally, Mrs. McCord, your daughter’s dismissal
concerns her, not you. Here at W&L. when an open
trial has ended, we are expected to put it, whatever its
result, behind us and continue living. I despise your
use of a convenient immunity from such expectations
as a medium to snipe at an Honor System which, your
daughter and a potential handful of others notwith-
standing, has greatly enriched the lives of thousands.
If you ﬁnd our system so inequitable, then either
accept it or wholly detach yourself from it. Don't pick
at it from a distance because you feel transitively
slighted through your daughter's expulsion.

TALKBACK

Hu.Ying wu, Chinese Teachng Sakina Paige, ’96,Bayshore,N.Y., and Christa Kirby ’96, Couderspoff, Susan Rucker, ’93, Brinklow,
assistant — “If we take care of the
place we live, maybewe will last

 

Senior Photos

Remember to sign up for senior
pictures Friday, outside the Co-op
from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Any ques-
tions? Please call Shannon at 463-
5137 or Anthony at 463-4352.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum presents
“Women and Christianity,” a dis-
cussion with Father Jay Biber on
Sunday, at6:30 p.m. irithe Women’s
Center. Everyone is welcome.

I- House

Drop by the International House
on 8 Lee Ave. for our Open House.
This term we will celebrate the Chi-
nese New Year, sponsor a lecture
by Professor McDaniel, celebrate
St. Patrick’s Day, and more! Come
ﬁnd out more on Jan. 17, from 2
p.m. to 4 p.m. Refreshments will be
served.

Ariel

Absolutely lastdeadline forAriel
subrriissions is, Feb. 1 by 5 p.m. in
Carol Calkins ofﬁce. Photographs,
artwork, poetry, and prose accepted.
Questions? Call Brian Carpenter at
463-1001.

Repubﬁcans

The College Republicans will
meet Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the
Mock Convention ofﬁce. The dis-
cussion topic will be “On the Eve of
Apocalypse: the Clinton Inaugura-
tion.” For more info please call
463-8579. T-shirts are now in.

CD&P

The Kaplan Prep courses for both
the LSAT and the MCAT are begin-
ning. Interested students should
cometothe CD&P ofﬁce right away
to enroll.

Seniors wishing to participate in
practice interviews need to sign up
in the CD&P ofﬁce as soon as pos-
sible. Interviews will be held on
Jan. 18 and Jan. 26. These are the
last two practice interviews sched-
uled forthis year.’ -‘.. ‘ '  " ‘

I .:T_he  will sponsor aru_In- 1*
' terview Workshopon Monday, Jan. ,3
25fro’m 4‘p.m to 5‘p.in. in room 109'

of the UC. The CD&P ofﬁce will
sponsor a Resume and Cover Letter
Workshop on Tuesday, Jan. 26 from
4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in room 109 of the
UC. The CD&P personnel will also
be available all day Friday, Jan. 29
to critique resumes. Please call
463-8595 for further information.

Big 4 Elections

Petitions for the election of Ex-
ecutive Committee president, vice
president and secretary, and Stu-
dent Conduct Commitee president
are due Feb. 1. Elections will be
held Feb. 8.

Housing  

The “priority” housing applica-
tion deadline is Friday, Jan. 1 5.
There are still some suites available
in Gaines I-Iall,as well as apartments
in Woods Creek. Stop by Payne 4 or
call 463-8752 for more infonna-
tion.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

 dent ‘of the’ American Foundation

. “Jan- ‘2l,at 7:30 -‘p.m.-in{Lee Chapel

Film Society

The Film Society will present
“Howard's End” (England, 1992)
on Friday, Jan. 15 and Saturday,
Jan. 16 at 8:05 p.m. in the Trouba-
dour Cinema at the comer of Main
and Henry Streets.

WLUR

WLUR 91.5 FM is giving away
two free back-stage passes and 10
row tickets to see Alabama, Dia-
mond Rio, and Michelle Wright.
Register at the Co-op and listen to
the country shows from 12 p.m. to 2
p.m from Monday to Friday and
from 3 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Sunday
for more information. Registration
ends Wednesday.

Pre-Law

The W&L Pre-Law Society will
meet in room 221 of the Commerce
School on Thursday, Jan. 21 at 7
p.m. with members of Phi Alpha
Delta legal fraternity. All under-
graduate students considering law
school after graduation are invited
to attend. For more information con-
tact Professor John in room l25—B
of the Commerce School.

Superdance

Registration packet for
Superdance are available in front of
Carol Calkins ’ ofﬁce. Sign up to be
a dancer and support MDA.

Racquetball

Anyone interested in playing in-
tramural racquetball with the W&L
Racquetball Club should call 464-
3927, before Jan. 25.

Fencing

Fencing Club will meet Tues-
day, at 7:30 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge.
Anyone interested in participating
should attend.

AIDS Education

The AIDS Education Project will
hostDr. Merv Silverrnan ’60, presi-

£_or, AIDS .éR.ese2u_ch .orr:'*I'hursday,
for"a” lecture entitled ““A‘H3S: A
Global Overview.”

Lost

Black Julie Klienhalf-lengthcoat
on Saturday night. If foundiplease
call Julie at 464-6125.

ODK Schedule

Schedul of classes for Tuesday

A — 8 a.m. - 8:45 a.m.

B —— 8:50 a.m. - 9:35 a.m.

C — 9:40 a.m. - 10:25 a.m.
D — 10:30 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Convocation — 11:30 a.m. -
12:55 p.m.

E — 1 p.m. - 1:45 p.m.

F — 1:50 p.m. - 2:35 p.m.
G — 2:40 p.m. - 3:25 p.m.
H — 3:30 p.m. - 4:15 p.m.

I — 4:20 p.m. - 5:05 p.m.

J —— 5:10 p.m. - 5:55 p.m.

- How much longer do you think the human race

Maryland, — “I don’t know.”

 
   

Leo Morozov, ’94 Ulyanovsk, Russia
— “A couple more years

 

 

PAGE 4

 

The Ring-tum Pnl, January 1 4, 1993

IFEATURES

By JOYCE BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

Her art hits the viewer over the
head with a strong blow of bright
colors.

“My art does not take my en-
erg)’/’ nationally known artist
Dorothy Gillespie said, speaking
at Monday’ s opening of her sculp-
ture exhibit in duPont Hall “It
gives me energy.”

Head of the Department of Art
Pamela Simpson sees Gillespie’s
energy in her sculptures.

“When you look at her work
you see vitality and optimism,”
Simpson said.

Gillespie, anative of Roanoke,
said Monday she never thought
she would see the day when she
would be talking to women stu-
dents of W&L.

Simpson said 72-year-old
Gillespie has been an artist for
over 50 years. Gillespie began
working at a time when there was
no such thing as a woman artist.

“It’s an amazing thing to think
that she was an artist back then,”

Art imitates life
Artist’s energy radiatesthrough work

Simpson said.

Simpson spent last weekend
with the visiting Gillespie.

“She has more energy than I
do,” Simpson said.

“I love the work,” Simpson
said. “It’s beautiful, colorful and
full of energy. I like them all.”

Gillespie’s works hang in the
permanent collections of Yale Uni-
versity, the Guggenheim Museum,
the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts
and other nationally acclaimed
museums and galleries.

Simpson said Gillespie is the
“one big name artist” the art de-
partment brings to campus every
year.
“No matter what sophistica-
tion,” Simpson said. “Everyone
seems to respond to them
[Gillespie’s artwork] in the same
way.”

Gillespie has been a board
member for the Women’s Caucus
for Art and Women in the Arts.
Gillespie’s works, mostly enamel
on aluminum, are abstract compo-

sitions of twisting and curling rib- A

bons, painted in brilliant colors
and full of animated movement.

 

This enamel on aluminum work is entitled “Ebony Sentlnel.”

Gillespie’s enamel on
aluminum sculptures
convey a sense of move-
ment and energy. On the
left, “Color St0l'I"l'|" and
on the right, “The Is-
land."

 

Photos by Mallory Meyers

‘:3

The
Student

ctivities

‘ Board

pres en ts

COUNSELORS WANTED
for Camp Wayne, a
co-ed children’s camp in

Northeastern Pennsylvania.
June 22 through August 20

Positions include: Tennis, Golf, Swim (W.S.I. preferred),
Waterski, Sailing, Basketball, Volleyball, Softball,
Soccer, Gymnastics, Dance/Cheerleading, Aerobics,
Drama, Guitar, Nature/Camping, Batik, Sculpture,
Ceramics, Painting, Silkscreen, Photography,

Self-Defense, Other positions available.
On campus interviews
Thursday, February 4, 1993
For more Information, call 7
516-889-3217 or write

12 Allevard St., Lido Beach,

NY 11561. Include your

school phone number.

Walls crumble

Music proves stronger than any barrier ’

By KRISTA TAURINS
Phi Contributing Writer

Ukrainian , guest-conductor Alexei
Gulyanitsky will direct theJan. l6con-
cert of the University-Rockbridge Sym-
phony Orchestra in his first American
orchestra appearance.

Gulyanitsky, chief conductor of the
Armenian State Philharmonic Sym-
phony Orchestra
since 1966, holds
the title of “People ’ s
Artist of the
Ukraine” and was

more money. Up to the very last minute
there was a possibility he wasn’t going
to come.
“But he’s here,” Kolman said. _
Finally they had to overcome 9:
language barrier, since Gulyanitsky
does not speak English.
Gulyanitsky’s son, who speaks En-
glish, was unable to come to W&L
with his father, so Kolman had to find
someone who could translate musical
terms at orchestih
rehearsals.
The solution to
this problem was
Arkady Jeyfets, a

awarded the professional violin-
country’s coveted istlivinginNewport
“Order of Honor.” News, VA, who
Associate Pro- emigrated from the
fessor of Music and USSR.
director Barry The synagogue
Kolman met thatsponsorsleyfets
Gulyanitsky in and his family sent
Yalta, Ukraine last hisresumeandtapes
year when Kolman to all the orchestra!

d i r e c t e d
Gulyanitsky’s or-
chestra.

  

they could find in
Virginia, including
the University-

 

p.

t .

Kolman said that ‘ Rockbridge Sym-
getting Gulyanitsky - phony.
to the United States Guzyamtsky J eyf ets audi- »
was a two-year tioned for Kolman ’
struggle. and was selected as concertmaster for

“It started with getting him a visa,
which was four-month process,” said
Kolman. “It’s very difficult to get
foreign musicians here _
on visas. The US. gov-
ernment since July 1
has riiade very strict
requirements for mu-
sicians in particular."

After numerous calls to
Russia and visits to a congress-
man in Staunton, Kolman was able to
get Gulyanitsky’ s visa.

Meanwhile, Gulyanitsky was deal-
ing with monetary problems in Yalta.

“Hisorchestra, which was supposed
to pay for the ticket, pulled out at the
last minute,” said Kolman.

Finally Gulyanitsky’s son went
around to all the businessmen in Yalta,
asking them for money, Kolman said.

Then, the airfare went up after the
first of the year, so he had to get some

 
     
  
 

Saturday’s conceit, and translator dur- A

in g rehearsals.

Jan. 16 also marks the first anniver-
sary of J eyfets ’ emigration to the United
States. “Is good symbol,” says Jeyfets.

Mozart’s “Eine Kleiiie
Nachtmusik,”
Mendelssohn’s “Italian
Symphony” and a
concerto by
Hummel featur-
ing Major John
Brodie of the Vir-
ginia Military Institute on the trumpet.
The orchestra is composed of W&L
students, local residents and profes-
sional area musicians.
The concert will take place in the
Lenfest Center at 8 p.m. .
Krista Taurins is a musician with
the University -Rockbridge Symphony
Orchestra.

The night's repetoire includm.

  
 
 

 

1 he Rlng-tum Phl, January 14, 1993

1. n~ FEATURES

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 1 3
1 HBPPY
5 Following
10 Colorless
14 Lounging attire
15 Lacking in
sophistication
16 Vatican site
17 Singles
18 Utopian
19 Extremely bad
20.Warm greeting
22 Final dinner
course
24 Historical
penod
25 Fender mishaps

I Debussy,
Porter at
i Lenfest

JFrom the W&L News Office

i Claude Debussy and Cole
Porter are among the compos-
ers whose work clarinetist Ri-
chard Stoltzman will perform

   
      

! guesday, at8p.m.intheLenfest I i 25 Literary sketch
‘ entef_ FT: ' ' . . “I’m very pas- 30 Abounded
Stohzman will also perform BYJEANNE BRIGGS Sionate about the 34 Copy. abbr.
. . . . W . _ _ 35 Corn spike

works by Olivier Messiaen, Phi Staff flier woods, and climbing 35 Perfume

Johannes Brahms, Timothy '*‘—‘—i—‘ has given me great 37 Taxi . _

Greatbach, Clare Fischer, Dick K11-1(1:0110, 1001010, respect for the mom. 3? gggefégggg!

HYman and Jimmy R°W1e5- in German and direc- 131115.” F0110 S_a1d- . 42 Representative

Stoltzman is a graduate of 101- 0f the w&L our- Follodescnbeshis 44 Speck _ _ 0
Q)hio State University with a ing C101,, takes his mountaineering ac- jg igﬁlifg ©'§’i?3iI,i1?£"nZ§i.?5é?iS°"'°°" '"°‘

do‘-‘hie maJ°r 1“ muslc and math’ profession far Outside “Vines 35 mV°1V1n$ 3 48 Involved Last week’; answers:
ematics. He earned a master of the classroom. modest degree ofdif- so Dish of greens 10 Chest or

music degree at Yale Univer- F0110 Spends his ﬁculty. 52 °"“'“ drawers

5313’ While 5111(1)/illg with Keiih summers mountain- He said he climbs 53 Z:':,$ahn°g"e°  X/,:?,?:,: Me,

I Wilson and later worked toward climbing in the swiss mountains ranging so Swim 13 Leather sash
._ adoctoral degree with Kalmen A103, 00m1,1n1ng his f,0m 10,000 10 60 Enderwatler  _l]\_Al:ln.g"pfOﬁUCl
‘ . perman atColumbia_Univer— 10“, 0f 1110 German 14,000 feetin height, 61 Eﬁfggéy ° 25 Szoffédegf V
‘ 311)“ A 10-year Paﬁlclpani 3‘ language with his in- where there is some 63 Poker stake 26 Clergyman
.’ the Marlboro MUSIC FCSIIVBJ, ter-est in the 0utdo01-s_ Snow and ice but no 64 All-knowing 27 Picture
he gained extensive chamber wh110 in 010 A103, V01-11001 fa00S_ 22 Sgaglishaped 28
a music experience there and sub— 110 011,005, studies the Follo said that he 57 Heavy meta; 29 Ha
sequently became a founding 010015 and 11150015 10 generally stays inone 68 Doled out 31 Point of a story
_ member of the noted ensemble 1110 sm0und1ng 0,0,1- place for a period of 69 P"°“°"  gfé_'f'::haio':fe';‘
1 QFASHI’ whlch made us debut Fonmemr and Speaks lime 39‘! makes (13)? DdWN 38 Flower essence
in 1973. 1 h German with the na. excursions. ; groeper 39 ﬂagged
‘ - ' ' o I ary u n
‘ rtS.mce dthen’ S1“?  as nVe5- _ 1 He Sfald he chmbs 3 Biblical brother 40 Waited upon
PC Orme 35350 °15‘W‘ m°_’° In addition to 310119 Or the H1031 4 Downward trend 43 Cuddled
than a hundred Orchestras. In sharpening his lan- ‘ 1’ ‘ . part, which means 5 Enlivened together
' ‘ ‘ ' - ’ ,- s   - 6 Lose color 45 Move to another
adgmgm tg work as a récuahst gu.age Sk‘“.S' F0119 ‘  .. ’ . »  .,,,.'. that he mus?‘ Cmrllcer-1 7 Four-in-hand country 53 Hood 57 Be aware of
an. ° am. 6‘ m“5‘° 9° °m‘.°’* Said he believes his .__ 5 = ,._. . . .    A traie 0“ W *3“ 5 ‘S 3 Get away by 47 Skiing race 54 Indian 58 Feminine suffix
Q Jazz ‘mm and 3“ excluslve trips also help his , doing 81a11'llfneS- deceit 49 In the past 55 Space agency 59 Sly look

RCA recording artist In 1936 teaching in other Follo approaching the summit of the Totano dl Rozes located “Climbing is very 9 Give in 51 Animated 56 Location 52 Tub

he became the first wind player ways. In the Italian Alps. restorative. There is

to be awarded the Avery Fisher “ [ M o u n t a i n - a certain amount of

Prize, joining Such eminent re- climbing] develops in you a sense of ing, rock-climbing, biking, white—wa— solitude in the mountains,” he said. '
cipients as Richard Goode and concentration,”he said, “andit strength- ter canoeing and kayaking, as well as Follo, who has been climbing 10    
Yo-Yo Ma. ens your will to environmental pro- years, said he has had only one acci-

- widewhaiiedasdoinsfor  oi» dent released by EC dance boord

. . grams.
the Clarinet What Rampal and Staeles and en1iV- He sald he chn.‘bS Follo said his time He said he was fortunate to have
Galway have done for the flute, ens you, which is mountain 5 rang“; g in the Alps and in the been climbing with a group of friends 50 years ago in the Phi — Student ofﬁcers and enlisted men with the

 

Stoltzman has appeared as 3 irnportant in the Cascade Mountainson when it happened- Aim ’s School for S eciol Service who ottend the Fonc Dress boll
:°1°i5‘ With ‘he New Y°’k Phil‘ °1a5Sr°°m-” :mm. 10’00.0 hm 1413000 the We?‘ °°a5‘ has °“' T"’° S““‘“‘e'S a3.°» F9”°f°“d“rin8 will riot be requlredpto weor costumes, as other FD otteiidonts will.
. armonic, the Orchestra Of La Follo also eet In heig ll, W ere abled him to learnalot a descent from a climb in bad weather .
- 1. R d- S _ . . ._ _ . . Ticketsforofﬁcers and enlisted men are $3.50 eoch. Otherstudents
Scala. the Ber In 3 10 Ym brings his experi there IS some snow and about the plants and and dislocated his shoulder. ,
ophony,theEnglis_hChamberOr- ence ‘and exper- . . 1 f animals in both areas. _ “_We had gotten through the most Vt/Iii be charged $4.40 each. _ .
chestra and thePittsburgh Sym- use 1n the out- [Ce but no Vertlca aces. He compares what d1ff1cu1t pan, but easy ten-am can very FIVE YEOTS C90 ID the Phi - After  months Of DYGDOYOTIOH ASSOCIOTG
phony. doors to the (_)ut- _ he studied there to the often become treacherous,” Follo said. Dean of Students Leroy Atkins issues standards to ﬁx up the frotemlty
ing Club, which has programs for hik- wildlife in this area. “I was very lucky.” houses physicouy as pan of Fraternity Renaissance.

ondale - - Din Bk iat
Janspoit day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop
Needed: 9   0 W1”-SON‘
 A Few Good :5 WALKER

  
    
     

    

x’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’x’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\.’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’x’\’\’x’\’\"\

\’\’\/\/\

Join us for our

Buy one get one free Special

Tuesday - Saturday
5:30-7:30 p.m.

 Must show college I.D.

_ ‘alt  »__,f'_ _ Expires January 31st

\ .-.:

 Freshman Men  r..-...,...r . = _ It Ody Look‘, g emmm

T 0 Help with Admissions Recruiting. §5 3° N" M‘’‘'" 3"’ '-°"'"9‘°" Wirrson-Walkrrrrmiseoﬂersexreptionarquariiy servicemamnm cwssicaé

_ _ _ Reservations Recommended - ,{ ,,,,,,,,r,,,,,,, [e eg 40,, ,g- 5,15,, ﬁe
Call Nancy Hickam at the Admissions » 463-3020 mm t 5 mp mhitapbri-‘£ee§fiaty¢7tufii$ni1r_;j"¢12r’:;.&1’C Wgamamp re‘

- / /
off me , 463 — 8 7 1 () , Q/Q/\.r /.0/\/\/\/\ /.0/,(\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/.(\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/‘I\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\l\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\{.0/\/\/\/\/\/§

:5’.-.'r'-I-I-Z".-'.r':-:!.'r€'5-I-:"d'§':" ' " 5'1‘:-.".".-.".':1.i'I'*:':-I-:':':'I-Z-I-' .*2-3-:-:-C-:-2-:-:-I-:-I-:-:-:-:-i-Z-I-I-1-I-1"I-I-I-I-1-I-H-I-iii:-3'2" I-1'1-1'2-1-I-ﬁr:-I-I‘:-I-I-1-'1-I-1':-Z-91-I-Z-3':-I-1':-Z-".':-I-I-I-I-2-I-I-Z-I-1-I-1+1-:-I-Z-I-I-1-I-I-I-Z-Z-1-I-31-l-Z-3-I-I-I-I-I-Z-I-I-I-I-I ------ - 

, gméa id 2 

 Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
, 0 All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at
«  Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99

 Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable
i  1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95 , 
6' Saturday" Night Prime Rib I
1  Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95

   

/‘/

  

463-7969

\/\/\ \/\

I

   

/‘/‘/‘V /‘/‘/‘/‘/"/‘/‘/‘/‘/V

\

      
     
   
     
   
   

All Seniors interested in a
career in commercial or
consumer banking, 1st Union
Bank cordially invites you to
attend a reception to leam
more about career oppor-

mck amp tumties in the banking industry.

 
 
  
   
  
  
  

 
   

55' _ o
 Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day. Wednesday, January 20, 1993
.  4 miles North on Route 11 S I . H 7 9
3-! . . -
‘  We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell umnl 0uSe9 p'm'
i IILN: -' 2'1. .-."l-I-"C--5"-C-'1."1I-' I-1-C-3-I-'12 '11-'"-I'1':'3'14'I'I'I'i'Z-i-3'5-1-2-I-C-I-I-I-I-Z-I-I-I-2-2-Z-I-1-I-I-1-I-I-I-I-I-E'1'I-1-1-1-'-.-I-I-I-I-i-I-I-I-I-I-I-.-‘J-I I-C!-I-I-J-I-II-I-1-i I-I-I-1'!-I-MI-I-I-I-I-.-.-.-.-IIII-1-I-1+I-I-I-i-I-I-I-I-I-P1-I-I-I-i-2-!-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-2-.-.
, , .
r_—gg—Q—Qn-QQu—-QQ——Qnn—1
* STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLAllTATION.FL 3331 _ .
: : ciudiotronics
, 9 . ....,....2:;.i°.:..°::.::*:".:.“:;:.i.:.:'ii.;':.°::.:.°°.*:§::::3.°.:.*:.‘ . YES! iwamvismmsrenmanrcma-t . *°°'°'“°‘°'°*““‘“*°
" credit cards-fin your name.” EVEN IF You ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed nnd s'5 which is 100% refundable ii not I ggggg §‘f;‘,;’,E
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BE!-DRE! . appmved ,mmed,a1c,y_ . TOSHM MARANTZ
VISA!’ and MastcrCard® the credit cards you I I KEF CWD
J deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT | NAME | BOSTON DEFINWVE
STORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNMENT— , . KUPSCH 3AZ°°'<‘~
‘ — -- o
. . E”E“§‘ir*%r”§¥:‘iSt'3rr§r"é’i"cIf’e.‘§§?rI?ie”'nr‘“ire.' ‘S’ I ADDRESS 1 - . :::i:i:.i.i.*i%i.*a:.P:.<hW
REPAlR$—AND TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY STATE _ ZIP I I ,‘,f§§,'2‘,§§‘;‘;,,’§,‘,‘§;”c‘;E,‘;';’.§‘”‘”‘
 “‘»N‘ﬁ :   : : i'ii’.iissTEERri"c‘::iERhigc/)siiis|iiRi"oig<s:ovER
, 5 metric No credit I SIGNATURE I (800) 468-6667
0‘5;l\|:‘5¢¢o “E? 7'0 security deD0-‘Sit! ' norm Mastacnid Isa registered tndermrk drmaemurd iniornauomi. Inc. ' Corner of Ogden &Starkey Roads
. 0usI;0,.¢1 9‘ ‘ I Visa Is a rcglslcred uaderrndr drvisix USA. Inc and VISA iniormdenei I Overlooking Tangleiwood Mall
011 Approval absolutely guaranteed so 0 5,0,0, ,t,,¢.,..°.. 100% ouAnAN.'.EEm ' 2750 Ogden Road- Roanoke
1 __ _ 1

 

 

Writer blasts
gender bias

D TIMES, from page 1

pets. And when the regular White House
correspondent was hung over, or it was
the weekend, or he was away, then I got
to cover the president of the United
States,” Robertson said.

The seven women reporters repre-
senting all the women of the Times
settled their case out of court. The
Times agreed to give the women back
pay, but denied any wrong doing.

So Robertson wrote a book about
sexual discrimination at the Times, The
Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men,
and The New York Times, named for
the Press Club balcony that Robertson
considers “the ugliest symbol of dis-
crimination in joumalism.”

Robertson said she wrote the book
for all the women whose excellence in 
journalism was ignored by the Times g
and for all women journalists to come.

Robertson won the Pulitzer Prize
for her feature story on toxic shock

Deal me in

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

syndrome, based on her own struggle
with the disease.

Robertson is also the author of “Get-
ting Better: Inside Alcoholics Anony-

Kappa Alpha members (I to r) Jeff Tibbals, Matt Strock, Torn Washmon and Jeff McEIroy play
spades in their newly renovated fraternity house Wednesday. The fraternity moved in to the
Nelson Street house last week after a 14-month absence.

mous.”

Seniors find careers at CD&P office

By CRAIG BURKE
Phi Staff Writer

As graduation looms ahead, most seniors have
more on their minds than just classes.

Whether they plan to go to graduate school or
hope to find a job, the majority of seniors at Washing-
ton and Lee are contemplating their lives after gradu-
ation.

The search for the perfect graduate program or the
right job often leads students to the Career Develop-
ment and Placement Office.

The goal of the CDPO is to help students explore
career possibilities and get interviews that could lead
to jobs, Associate Dean of Students and Director of
Career Services Rick Heatley said.

But in practice, the office is more helpful to some
students than to others.

Companies who do signiﬁcant hiring as a result of
on-carnpus interviews are usually looking for ac-

. counting or economics majors, Heatley said.

“They seem to be the only companies who will
recruit on small campuses,”Heatley said. ‘‘That’s not
just at W&L. It’s the same at all small schools.”

As a result, many seniors find they must look in
other places as their job search intensifies.

Some German majors rely on summer internships
to get their first post-college job, Professor of Ger-
man Roger Crockett said.

“Many German students intern with companies in
Germany during the summer,” Crockett said. “A
number of job opportunities arise as a result of these
internships.”

Crockett said he thinks the CDPO is excited to get
jobs available to foreign-language majors, but such
jobs are increasingly rare.

“Many of our students are double majors, and
they rely on their other major in looking for jobs,”
Crockett said.

Associate Professor of French Russell Knudson
agrees that foreign language jobs are hard to find.

“Careers in languages are often specific and re-
quire further education,” Knudson said.

He said many French majors use the language to
give their resumes an added dimension, relying on a
second major, such as economics or journalism,
when they begin looking for work.

Heatley said he realizes that on-carnpus recruiting
for non-business and economics majors is rare.

“It is a myth, however, to say that the CDPO only
looks out for business majors,” he said. “We try to be
as diversified as possible.”

Heatley said one of the difﬁculties at W&L is the
small size of many of the departments. For example,
companies hesitate to recruit for computer science
jobs when there are fewer than five majors on carn-
pus, Heatley said.

“The solution for these other students is to pursue
other avenues, such as job fairs and off-carnpus job
searches,” he said. A

Professor of Chemistry Michael Pleva said com-
panies looking for chemistry majors carmot do much
at W&L.

“We don’t turn out many chemistry majors who
are looking for jobs,” he said. “Most go on to gradu-
ate school, so companies aren’t going to find a lot of
people here.”

Not everyone will find a job through the CDPO,
but many students ﬁnd the extra help to be worth-
while.

“I stop by the ofﬁce at least twice a week,” said
senior Teresa Williams. “I don’t know if I’ll find a
job through the CDPO, but the office has helped me

4 get started in my search for a job.”

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1993

C-School hunts.
new econ prof *

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Contributing Writer

Southern California was the place
to be last week for three W&L eco-
nomics professors who traveled to
Anaheim to attend a convention and
select a new economics professor to
replace Professor Edward C. Atwood,
who will retire in June.

Assistant Professor of Economics
Michael Anderson, Associate Profes-
sor Art Goldsmith, and departmenthead
Bruce Herrick interviewed 16 appli-
cants chosen from more than 150 who
responded to a magazine advertise-
ment for the new teaching position.

“We were very optimistic about the
quality of people we saw,” Herrick
said. “The convention gave us a chance
to meet and interview the talent.”

Herrick said he was interested in
applicants who show good teaching
skills rather than those who have done
research or written important papers.

Anderson, Goldsmith, Herrick and
Dean of the Commerce School Larry
Peppers narrowed the list of 16
interviewees to three candidates.
Herrick said those three potential pro-
fessors will be invited to visit campus
this winter.

During their visits, Herrick said the
applicants will make public presenta-
tions, and students will be asked their

opinions of the candidates. Othermem— '
bers of the economics department will .
then be able to judge the applicants on
how they respond to students. “ThQre
will be student input into the hiring
decision,” Herrick said.

Herrick would not reveal any infor-
mation about the three finalists, saying
only that the applicants chosen in Ana-
heim had the qualities that were most
desired by the other professors herd.

Herrick also would not say if a
woman or a minority was among the
finalists to replace Atwood. He did say
that if the last two candidates have
exactly equal talent, and one of them
was a woman or a minority, he would

choose to “diversify” the department. ,

But professors say that anyone will

have a tough job replacing Atwood, V

who came to Washington and Lee in
1953 and has served as dean of stu-
dents and dean of the Commerce
School.

Atwood said that when he retirts,
he will move to Connecticutto be closer
to his family.

With Atwood’s departure, Dean of
Students David Howison said he and
his family will move into Atwood’s

home, the Lee-Jackson House, behind I

Graham-Lees dormitory. Q

“I know we’ll like living on cam-
pus,” Howison said. “It’s a beautiful
home and it will also be a lot closer to
the school.”

New Va. license .
foils fake attempts

By AMY YARCICH
Phi Contributing Writer

The Virginia Department of Motor
Vehicles is issuing anew, tamper-proof,
digitalized driver’s license that will be
almost impossible to fake.

“The next time a student renews his
or her Virginia license it will be in the
digitalized format,” said Jeanne
Chenault, public relations coordinator
for the DMV in Richmond.

When someone applies for a new

license, his picture will be taken by a
video camera and the image stored in
the DMV computers. For a duplicafe
license, workers can call up the video
picture.

“This will make it easier for restau-
rant and bar owners to look at the
license and determine if the person is
21,” Chenault said.

Palms manager Cindy Campbtﬂl
said her bar sees few fake licenses.

“There ’s never aproblem with W&L
students,” Campbell said.

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
ALASKA SUMMER

 

 

  
   

 

  

  

     
  
  
        
 

 

  
    
        
 
    
 
   
    

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

.94’:/‘*,

    

I”

 

   

rileti they ggrtl asitizeo
Mucll To ’lI~lElK 1Zei.iEF /MAT

(‘cg 1/V46 1c~1€0£N\A'l‘1'o;~1 CALI» -

4.m«t202

January

26 & 27 at 8:00 M
LENFEST CENTER

Tickets & Reservations 463-8000 0 NOOII - 4 PM ' M011daY thru Friday

14117

 

   
   
 
 
  
 

#6

 

 

ggudf ‘/1563* @
GE‘ gTvt7:'17

  

    

 

 

EMPLOYMENT ' "j.'g?‘

FISHERIES-Students Needed! Earn / 

$600+ per week in canneries or % 1:4’ we‘,

:4,00r0+ per Epntllt En fishindgBboat(;. g 5.’

I66 ranspor 1011 ooman 031' . . . 1.‘ ' ~
 Ladws'Shoes, Clothmg g . sf"
em I t ll: ° _
:1‘_’%,’;:;’_’;;£,*;’;’,:j’5“{5“I§,jt_sA5342 23 N I st and Accessories é  , Op 60” Me
In em mp oymeut ervices __ Ma n _ (703) 453.5988 /  =.._ Woke 091.4 A: ID I: -r W
Achievement Through Adventure / E _)gAt~|\l“9 W [:5
='ssh"3~‘3"°"<5i3"“"3i"-i-i75'§’°“55"»=hAi355'-i‘¥*i’7m-  H‘§2“§:§:5'5éwE::f'¢:l:*::fT;4gojnH ‘ﬁfﬁﬁjnvégjggn " 0 0
(“——‘—‘.—“—————.————-\ ’ E - ° ‘ ,  ..w I /
page .4 N ueL%F“’*"‘   .. , »
  um - BIIIIIE ,, ' I l
102 W. Washington St. 3 . . ‘ j .
 , EANINE Qememsgggo «,1 .
_ WINTER SALE!!  4» Aommo .,m,..i””f ,
Suits & Sportcoats . . . . . . . . . . . 20-50% Off  6 SMWED °”T°‘+leKMi~o, 2
IV)V1nter Outerwear Coats . . . . . . . . 25-50% Off ‘  1,
ress Top Coats. . . . . 20% Off :5 \ : A ‘
 5 ,  ' 73¢] gap/EMEEKED j
Sweaters ._ . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . 30% Off IQ» tzﬂm WM, AN, 
Casual Shirts (Rugby& Chamois). . . 30-50% Off ___ Acvrjhléy izeAu.~i _ '_ //g
Gloves, Scarves, & T-Necks. . . . . . . 50% Off  ~ ~  erwvo-.  _; ‘
Other Items Reduced ”«,  I 3, S 4’ i ’
\Visa Mastercard Student Charge 463-5383 J  ., we V«|"ibLE Evenme em: '8Aék.//.. "u. ’
W i Evenruxev WNMT W) | W?
Chrlstopher Parkenlng   wsWI°   °
’“ Ttus 7...

    

tuﬁy WERE Just’
CA Vcroo :4 0-loresaieizsv. /
/,, .

W

  

 

A»

counci-

NSOAAL IrI$'l'i'l'()Tr: on Dave A605: .

‘3.T'/’r:FAi2.Tute LIT of‘ tlearzu

Aﬂo ffvr/um 5522s/ices.

 

vr

4r

  
  

-

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1993

6%.

u.s.DfAIicHE  ,-

 
  

~ H|_ns
ME N5 I.OW

 Strong second half

\

_ ., 6‘ -
i ’. :4 ‘_ qf. r I‘   .

iounouxi
ienou

ADDITIONAL PURCHASE

SEMI-BONELESS
'« WHOI. °"§i'iiii"i+'iiii‘o°" 
‘tr HAM ......... ..LB. 0
._ EREsH
., GROUND I 
ROUND ...... ..LB. 0

. HT
T SLICED
' ACON i2oz. PKG. 099

    
 
     
 
 
 
  
  

  

 
  

\
, \

         
    

    
   

EMONS ..... ..E!>(R’/e 

'o‘n"i'ii‘i§is......£t{99

DANCY OR CLEMENTINE1
ANGERINES ........... ..EA.e

    

OOOOOOOOLBO

  
    
     
 

 

C

30-40 CT.

" LARGE

coRi'i oR
GREEN BEANS

 

ii’ 89

 

REDUCED PRICE

 

AP'i’=|.E
JUICE

64 OZ.

   

REDUCED PRICE

 
 

  
  

s6'i=r
MARGARINE
a‘o‘vv"i

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

REDUCED PRICE

DIET PEPSI OR

PEPSI COLA

 

Prices Effective Throu h Januar

ii

ﬂesday, fanua

. Prices In This Ad Etiective Wﬁcinesciay January 13 Throu
On|y.We Reserve The Rig tTo Limit Quantities. None

95

oi

I9, I993

19 1993. n Mecklenbur County Stores

To Dea ers. e Gladiy Accept Federai Fgooci Stamps.

Ct VICTORY, from page 8

The Generals had one
more chance this week to
end the drought against an-
other ODAC rival, the Hor-
nets of Lynchburg.

The Generals would trail
at halftime and for the first
few minutes of the second,
then a 12-minute period
would turn into the Bryan
Watkins show and that
would be all she wrote for
the seven-game losing steak.

The play in the ﬁrst half
was pretty sloppy at some
points; there were a number
of turnovers, ill-advised
passes that wound up as
steals, just lack-luster play.

W&L trailed by three at
the half, and according to
Canfield, were lucky to do
so.

“If it wasn’t for our de-
fense, we might have been
down 10 or 20 at halftime."

Bryan Watkins entered
the second after sitting for
all of the first and responded
with an incredible drive-do-
a-360-and-bank-it—off-the
board-shot. It was the igni-
tor the Generals were look-

Photo by Jameson Eeonai, The Ringu Phi

    

Matt Newton (with the ball) and Robert Miggins head down court to set-up
the W&L offense against Mary Washington. Miggins has been on fire this
season, shooting 66 percent from the floor.

3-point range and 16 points
in all. He was W&L’s lead-
ing scorer and didn’t see ac-
tion for the first 22 minutes.

“Bryan finally played the
way he should,” Canfield
said. “His drive was a form

ﬂoor, the game was still up
for grabs.

Cummings, the 6-7 jun-
ior transfer from VCU was
on fire. The Hornets had a
go-to guy and Cummings did
all he could.

first win since Nov. 28.

' “Pmhappyforthe guys,”
Canfield said, “this will help
them a little bit.

“I'm hoping this some-
thing more than a win,” he
said. “Maybe this is the step

ing for. of leadership; and then he In 19 minutes ofaotlon, we need to take.” _ _
It tied the score at 46 and sankthe three andthatpicked Cummings finished 34 W&L can savor their win
the Generals never looked the team up.” points on 11-of-16shooting, for about 20 hours and then
back. With hindsight it can be including 3-of-4 from 3- it’s back onto the court to
Watkins finished his 12- said the Generals had the pointland,andsixrebounds. getreadyfor Randolph-Ma-
minute stint going 6-for-6 game well inhand, but with But even his efforts could con, who visits W&L on
from the ﬂoor, 4-for-4 from Anthony Cummings on the not deny the Generals their Saturday.
 &  Fumlture Dealers
For your extra pieces oi furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington

463-2742

Reporters
Ad Salesmen

up your résumé

The Fling-tum Phi
wants help for winter term:

Production Assistants

The Phi uses Aldus PageMaker, Mi-
crosoft Word, De|taGraph and Aldus
Freehand. Proficiency in at least one
of these programs is expected in the
business world today!

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

Bball-W&L 87,Lynchburg 77 (4-8)
MSwim-W&L 137.5,Catholic 67.5(4-0)
WSwim-W&L 143,Mary Bald. 93 (5-0)
Wrestle-W&L 33,Davidson 18 (1-1)

PAGE 8

making

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

Last week it seemed as if
head Washington and Lee
wrestling coach Gary Franke
felt akin to Atlas as he set out
to bear the troubles of the
W&L wrestling world on his
back.

His team’s youth, inexpe-
rience and number all seemed
to foretell of a year of certain
doom.

What a difference a week
makes. '

The problems that existed
one week ago are far from
solved, but with a new recruit
and a win, the Generals, for
now, are world-beaters.

W&L hosted Davidson
College of North Carolina on
Sunday, and gave them athor-
ough drubbing, 33-18.

W&L was faced with the
prospect of competing with
wrestlers at only six weight
classes, but the wrestling gods
looked down favorably upon
coach Franke’s band, and gave
four of the six victories.

In addition, new recruit
Matt McCollum offered his
services for the remainder of
the season at the previously
uninhabited 190-pound
weight class.

Sophomore Kevin Batteh
moved up to 177 pounds, and
an injured Julian Montague
found a new role on the team
as he took a forfeit win for
W&L (Davidson had no wres-
tler at that weight).

Batteh and McCollum were
unable to win their matches.
That didn’t stop Rob Sands,
Eric Shirley, Adam Williams,
Curt Futch, Owen Smith, and
Lea Abercrombie from sweep-
ing their weight classes.

Shirley, Futch, and

their talents

Wrestling:

bestof

  

Sands

Abercrombie each pinned
their opponent at 134, 150 and
167 respectively.

Futch pinned the same
wrestler who had previously
pinned him at the VMI Invita-
tional before the winter holi-
day.

Sands remained the only
undefeated W&L wrestler at
2-0 with a 8-2 win over his
Davidson opponent.

Franke said Davidson's in-
ability to change their line-up
helped the Generals’ execute
their game plan.

“Davidson had only nine
people, so they couldn’t re-
ally juggle their line-up,”
Franke said.

“We were able to watch

‘ wlilat was going on and change

our line-up accordingly.”

The Generals will get a
chance to further test its new
line-up combinations atatour-
nament at Johns Hopkins this
Saturday.

Lebanon Valley will join
W&L and the host team in the
tournament.

The Generals participated
in the Lebanon Valley Tour-
nament in ear1yDecembcr and
finished a respectible 19th
considering the rash of inju-
ries and sickness the befell
the team earlier this year.’

The team hopes to remain
healthy as they face a run of
four consecutive tournaments
within the next month.

S

(J11: iaittg-tum Iﬂltt

PORTS  

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

Watkins ‘drives’ W&L to win '

Generals’ losing streak stops at seven with Hornets the victim

By SEAN O’RotJRi<1-:
Phi Sports Editor

Last week I compared the sea-
son the men’s basketball team
was having to the Cyclone roller
coaster.

This week, I thought a cliche
might be best able to capture the
feeling of the tearn’s last three
games, say, “It was the best of
times, it was the worst of times.”.

But then again, a cliché is so,
well, cliched.

Then I thought of compari-
sons to some professional bas-
ketball teams that are having
rough seasons. But I felt the Gen-
erals deserved more credit than,
let’s say, the Dallas Mavericks.
(Sorry Maverick fans).

Finally I came to the realiza-
tion that the best way to explain
the past week would be to let the
three games do the talking.

I mean, what better way is
there to tell the tale of three to-
tally different games than to tell
the tales.

FirstcameO1dDoniinionAth-
letic Conferencepowerandmost--
hated foe, Roanoke College.

The Maroons came to the
Warner Center with a record of
7-2, 3-1 in the ODAC. A record
that preceded them.

Head coach Verne Canﬁeld
was well aware of Roanoke’s
offensive punch, especially their
frontline players. Canﬁeld knew
the team would need to play ﬂaw-
less basketball to win.

Well, they really didn’t.

The Generals actually came
out strong, hanging with Roanoke
for more than ten minutes of the
ﬁrst half. At one point the score
was dead even, 25 apiece.

Then the game got weird. It
became a game of spurts. The
Maroons would run off ten
straight points; W&L would re-
spond with ﬁve of their own, and
so-on-and-so-forth. «

The problem was Roanoke
always seemed to have the larger
rims and pulled away rriid-way
through the second.

Canﬁeld could not explain
why the game went as such.

finish.

‘‘I really don’t have an expla-
nation for it,” he said. “It was just
a crazy kind of game.”

From a purely statistical stand-
point, the Maroons were the su-
perior team. They outshot the
Generals from the ﬁeld, from
outside the 3-point arc and from
the charity stripe. But W&L
played some inspired basketball
in spurts and that is what kept in
most of the game.

“We played hard in spurts,”
Canﬁeld said, “I’ve got to give
them that. Sooner or later that
will pay off.”

The Generals fell 90-73.

Two days later, the Eagles of
Mary Washington College came
callingat the WarnerCenter.T'lie
Eagles entered the game 2-4, with
this being only the second game
they played since Dec. 19.

This was a strange and excit-
ing contest right down to the ﬁ-
nal buzzer.

Canﬁeld has been trying des-
perately to ﬁnd combinations that
would work together and pro-
duce positive results. So he re-
sorted to mass substitutions. He
started five, then substituted ﬁve,
then sent the original ﬁve back.

He said it helped to instruct
each group.

“With this method I could tell
all ﬁve what to do and give them
instructions. It’s ﬁne to do in the
first half, but you want you best
out there in the second.”

The scheme might or might
not have worked depending on
who you talked to. The fact still
remained, the Generals trailed
after the ﬁrst 20 minutes, 44-41.

The deﬁcitwas tough to swal-
low for W&L because they had a
deﬁnite height advantage but
were being out-rebounded and
had few offensive rebounds to
their credit.

Canﬁeld said this caused the
three—point deﬁcit.

“We did a good job on the
defensive end, but we shot our-
selves in the foot. We had 2-on-
1 and 3-on-2 opportunities and
didn’t convert.

“But we had almost no offen-
sive rebounds and couldn’t get
any second shots.”

minute.

With the score tied at 83-83
and 38 seconds left, Mary Wash-
ington set up for one final shot to
win or go to overtime.

At the ten second mark the
Eagles drive for the hoop, one
shot is attempted and blocked by

Robert Miggins.

The Eagles get it back and
attempt a “baby hook” from the
left side of the basket with three

    

M-n-ow 
Phi Staff Writer in an utterly
dom i natin g
Bombs fell on Iraq. Ross Perot chat- performance.
ted with Larry King. The W&L swim The men
teams won. Not much has changed this avenged last
week. year’s defeat - _
The Washington and Lee men’s and to Catholic H h
women’s aquatics drowned any sor- with a 137.5— 3 er
rows of the year gone-by with victories 67.5 wipeout

over Catholic University on Saturday
in their first meets of 1993.
Furthermore, the women sank Mary
Baldwin Collegewednesdaynight with
a 143-93 victory to improve to 5-0.
The Generals won 13 of 14 events
in the meet against MB. Senior Claire
Dudley, sophomores Brandi Henderson
and Susan Fisher, and freshman
Rebekah Prince won three races each

of CU, Saturday. Six different Gener-
als came away with victories as the
squad totaled nine wins in the meet’s
eleven races.

Freshmen were leaving wake all
over the pool, as Justin Dardani won
both the 500-yard freestyle and the
200-yard individual medley. Class-
mates Craig Sears and Frank Darden
each claimed a first and a second place

Men’s head coach Page Remillard
was cautious going into the meet in
spite of W&L’s strong start this season
(4-0).

Some of his swimmers were com-
ing off injuries and Remillard was
concerned about some of the men
who were unable to return to Lexing-
ton early over vacation.

He was hoping the team would
not repeat last year’s performance
when, he said, the Generals “did not
respond” to Catholic’s challenge.

Saturday, though, the Generals sim-
plyblew Catholicoutofthepool,claim-
ing individual wins in the 50, 100, 200
and 500-yard freestyles; the 200-yard
backstroke, the 200-yard breaststoke
and the 200-yard IM.

W&L also took the 400—yard med-

ley-relay and the top two spots in the
400—yard freestyle relay.

The undefeated Generals will next
swim against Buffalo State on Thurs-
day in the Cy Twombly Pool, and then
Saturday at Georgetown.

The women will also be racing in
those meets. After three meets in four
days, women’s coach Kristin Jacobs
expects her team to be pretty exhausted
by Saturday.

The afternoon competition at
Georgetown will be even more diffi-
cult for the women in that the Hoyas
outnumber the Generals by 3-1.

“By Saturday we’ll be pretty tired,”
said Jacobs. “We’ll need'to race like
we did against Catholic.”

The W&L women won eight of the
eleven races Saturday, but mustered

only a 104-88 win due to their small '

 

This Week:
Bball-R-MC 1/16 3pm;at E&H 1/20
Swim-Buffalo St. 1/14 7pm(M&W); at
G’town 1/16 (M&W) 0
Wrestle-at Johns Hopkins Toumy 1/ 16
IT-Lynchburg Invit. (M&W) 1/16

seconds to go.
Airball 1

straight defeat.
W&L loses, 85-83.

Canﬁeld said afterwards that
it is impossible ‘to gauge how -a
team will respond to a loss like

that.

“No coach knows how a team
will react to this. Everyone
thought we ’d win, but we didn’t
play with spirit and enthusiasm.”

Generals’ swimmers are cruising into midseason form.

size.

Regardless, the women have shown
that quality has counted morethanquan-
tity by consistently taking the top spots

M in nearly all of their events.

Prince continued her outstanding
frosh campaign with three victories
over Catholic: the 500—yard free, 200-
yard IM, and the 200-yard butterﬂy. In
the 200-yard IM, Prince came within
0.2 seconds of Dudley’s school record.

Dudley contributed two wins in the
200-yard breaststroke and 50-yard
freestyle.

Henderson chipped in with wins in
the 100 and 200-yard freestyles. Fisher
and freshman Jill Sheets ﬁnished sec-
ond in two events.

If both the Generals’ men and
women can pull off a couple of victo-
ries this weekend, the two squads will

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi
Forward Darren Johnson deposits two of his six points against Mary Washington on
Monday. Ironically, it will be this same basket where the Ea
the game-winning basket with no time left on the clock.
The Generals hung tough,
though. They took the lead and
gave it back, took the lead and
saw the Eagles take it back. It
went like that until the final

But, low and behold, the
Eagles’ Scott Pate is on the other
side to receive the gift, and his
two-foot lay-up with no time left
sent the Generals to their seventh

JANUARY 14, 199.

The losses hid the fact" that
some of the Generals were put-
ting up some decent numbers.

Cam Dyer scored 16 against
Roanoke and 19 against the
Eagles. Mark Connelly pogted
17 and 10-point games respec-
tively. But the Generals could
never get all five guys on the
court on the same page. *

“A coach can’t make the
chemistryforhistearn/’Canﬁeld
said. “The guys have to do giat
on the court.”

CI See VICTORY, page 7

  

be mid-way to undefeated seasons.
With some of the other Generals
t e a m s
struggling,
these two
have given
W&L fans
afewthings
to feel good
about.
Neither
team can
b e c o m e
c o n t e ii t,
h o w 9 v e r .
Both are rather young in some places,
so the middle of the season could‘
become a vital part of the season.
With meets against Emory,
Swarthmore and Johns Hopkins stﬂl to ,
come, the season is just starting.

 

Henderson.

 

   

 

We’ll make you look good!
Come to us for all of your design needs.
Ads, ﬂyers, logos, résumés, faxes, and quick copies.

PHONE: 463 - 1712

M Lee
F iatgllugh Lee
M.Miley

iiﬁniimunis
~|3illlll?il|

   

125 W. NELSON ST. 0 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

W&L Art

1870 Washington College Diploma
signed “RE. Lee”

Signatures:

Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate re-strike. hand-colored
W&L and R.E.Lee limited edition art
Sculptures by Ron Tunison
George and Mary Washington pieces

4 East\Washington Street Open Monday - Saturday
Lexington, VA 24450 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. .
(703) 464-6464

S; 44

FAX #: 463 - 6918 lg!

RE. Lee, Jr.
John Letcher

E. Nelson St., Lexington

Valley 
Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186

 

Read
the
Phi

fFall Fashions For “The Student Body. ”\
50°/o-80°/o Off
Every Day V

TGIF

 

, OUTLETS
30 South Main Street Downtown Lexington
C Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 463-9730 J

11 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

Robby Jone!
(703) 463-2022

—_._

SPRING BREAK ’93-
SELL TRIPS, EARN i
CASH & GO FREE ,

Student Travel Services a
is now hiring campus t

representatives. Ski
packages also available.
CALL 1-800-648-4849.

and
Staff:

Focuﬂy

You con still subscribe to the Phi
ond have your poper delivered! ’
Coll X8581 or X8582 for information. .

 

 

 
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
     
  
   
   
   
    
   
    
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
           
      
 

gles’ Scott Pate will pugint

   
 
    
  
    
     
     
     
     
    
    
     
   
  
  
   
 

  
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
    

  
  

   
  
    

     
  
     
     

 

