  
   
 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRAFIY
WASHNGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXlNC-STON, VA 2/M50

JAN 2 3 1993

 

Sr. PArRIcI<’s Roots

Today’s tradition of eating,
drinking and making merry
arises from a more solemn history

9

Lox teams still blistering
Both squads

face biggest tests
this weekend

VOLUME 92, No.21
——s

Petition
calls for
women’s
center

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi Contributing Writer

Washington and,Lee women
want a place to call their own.

8 petition addressed to Dean
of Students David Howison asks
that one of two soon—to—be-va-
cated fraternity houses be re-
served for future use as a
women’s center. Sigma Chi and
Sigma Phi Epsilon will move to
Daﬂdson Park.

Women’s Forum President
Shannon Comer said she has got-
ten about 400 signatures since
she began to circulate the peti-
tion Monday.

“As things are now, there is
no place for women to meet that
is exclusively ours,” the petition
says. “Even the Arlington
Women’s Center is often occu-
pied by groups other than women.
Males on this campus have 16
beautiful fraternity houses.”

‘3Nothing’s been decided on
the use of these houses,” Howison
said. “I have recommended that
the Sigma Chi house be used as
an administrative facility for stu-
dents. I think the Sig Ep property
should be sold. It would be great
as Qbed and breakfast.”

Tuition to rise to $13,100 in fall

he ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂlti

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Phtoby Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi
Waiting for fame and fortune

Cathargo Films said about 500 people turned out for a casting call Wednesday for
extra roles in the film version of “The Foreign Student.” Cathargo is seeking extras
for crowd shots, and some of the extras will be paid. Under a gag rule, Cathargo
staff would not talk about any specific roles. Filming in Lexington forthe movie will
begin on May 3. Most of the movie will be shot in Richmond.

   

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Q _Phi Contributing Writer

Clinton plans to reform studentloans

MARCH S1 1 , 1 993

IFC proposal says
later Rush, no caps

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

The IFC will present its rec-
ommendations to revise men’s
Rush to the Student Affairs Com-
mittee this week.

The Interfratemity Council
proposal does not include a quota
system or cap on pledge class
sizes, but it does set a new time
for Rush.

It also includes a way to re-
strict communal sources of alco-
hol in the first two weekends of
the school year, which would be
open contact for freshmen.

The open discussion began
with a heated debate on the pos-
sibility of limiting pledge class
sizes.

“I’mtotally opposed toacap,”
Phi Delta'Iheta juniorBillyGuice
said. “The IFC doesn’t have the
right to tell you how many guys
you can take. I wouldn’t want to
give up someone I wanted for the
sake of another fraternity.”

IFC President Sam Rock of-
fered support for caps.

“It would relax people, and
they could have some assurance
that a house wouldn’t take 30 or
40 guys, draining another house
of five or six guys,” Rock said.

Rock also stressed that a cap
system would encourage fresh-
men to look more carefully at a

wider variety of houses.

But caps met much~more op-
position than support.

“Ifahousedoesn’tputenough
effort in to have a good Rush it’s
their fault,” sophomore Phi
Gamma Delta Paul Wright said.
“We shouldn't penalize a frater-
nity for putting on a great Rush.”

A majority of the IFC mem-
bers voted not to include caps in
the proposal.

Rock said SAC will not add
caps to the proposal without IFC
approval.

“SAC will not try to impose
anything. [Caps] weren’t some-
thing they suggested,” IFC Vice
President Tom Washmon said.
“We brought [caps] up to hear
what you wanted to say. If you
oppose it, that’s it.”

The council voted and ap-
proved a new Rush schedule.
Formal Rush would begin on the
second Sunday of the academic
school year. Nine open houses
would be held the first week of
Rush. The third weekend of the
school year would be the only
two nights of closed contact. The
following week would consist of
three nights of dinner parties and
Tear Night on Friday.

Differing from last year, there
would be two weekends of open
contact after freshmen arrive but
before Rush begins. IFC mem-
bers expressed concern that al-

cohol would be given to the fu-
ture rushees during open contact.

After some discussion, Rock
proposed that IFC representatives
walk around to each fraternity
party to check that no rules are
being broken.

“The IFC would go around to
enforce the regular IFC rules: no
communal source of alcohol and
guest lists,” Rock said.

Offenders would receive so-
cial probation.

The IFC next will address
current difficulties with deferred
pledgeship. According to IFC
rules, pledgeship activities should
not begin until December. But
Rock said some fraternities have
broken that rule.

The IFC members agreed to
keep deferred pledgeship.

“The IFC has made acommit—
ment to enforce the deferred
pledgeship and will need to come
up with a scale of ﬁnes that will
be fairly severe,” Rock said.

When the IFC presents itspro—
posal to SAC, SAC will recom-
mend changes to the IFC’s pro-
posal until they believe it is ready
for a faculty vote.

The faculty meets the first
Monday of each month. The fac-
ulty will have to vote on the Rush
proposal because it adjusts the
schedule of events‘, Rock said.

Rock also said that any

Cijxt-If‘

.-4 ~41.-‘G :

‘J

351515;’? g .
i " *3‘-.'5{§4{_?}'T;

changes could be temporary.

 

 

W&L students and their parents will have to dig
a little deeper into their pocketbooks next year.

Tuition will increase 6.2 percent next year,
raising the cost of a Washington and Lee education
to $13,100 per year, from $12,330 per year.

e increase is necessary “in order to permit us
to continue to pay faculty members and others and
to keep materials current,” University Treasurer
Lawrence Broomall said. “Our other sources of
revenue are not keeping up with the growth of the
budget.”

Broomall said the budget has increased 4.7
~ per&:nt for next year. The extra increase in tuition
gives the university room in the budget, he said.

A University President lohn Wilson said there has
been a 300 percent increase in tuition at Washing-
ton and Lee since 1983. If tuition continues in-
creasing at the current rate, W&L will cost more
than $22,000 a year by 2003, Wilson said.

Qtudents receiving ﬁnancial aid should be cov-
» ered, Wilson said. The Financial Aid department is
getting a 14 percent increase in its budget next year
to offset the tuition hike.
‘Broomall said that even with the tuition hike,
W&L is still the best buy around.
“We’re still $1,800 behind the next best buy in

By RICHARD PELI7.
Phi Executive Editor

President Bill Clinton’s pro-
posal to reform higher education
includes student loans directly
from the government and a na-
tional service program for stu-
dents to pay off loans.

Clinton introduced the national
service program in a speech at
Rutgers University in New
Brunswick, N.J., on March 1.

The program would be similar
tothe GI Bill,aprograrn by which
studentseammoneyfortheiredu—
cation by serving in the military,
Clinton said.

Under Clinton ’s proposal, stu-
dents might work with police,
senior citizens or students, on
environmental projects or in
neighborhood cleanup programs,
he said.

Clinton emphasized the role
of people rather than government
in the program.

“I want it to empower young
people and their communities,
not to empower yet another gov-
ernment bureaucracy in Wash-
ington,” he said.

The switch to direct lending
to students from the government
willplant control of student loans
in Washington, where critics say
bureaucracy could smother the
program.

The Consumer Bankers As-
sociation, which says it repre-
sents about 700 banks, including
most of-. the student lenders, says
student loan programs could suf-
fer in bureaucratic hands.

“We support the call for na-
tional service,” CBA Vice Presi-
dent of Communications Fritz
Elmendorf said in an interview
Monday. “We think it’s unfortu-
nate that the president wants to
link that to the direct loan idea.”

Elmendorf said the
president’s proposal would put
the Department of Education in
charge of disbursing student

, loans and the Internal Revenue
Service in charge of collecting
them.

“The two issues are whether
it will work and whetherthe DOE
has the management expertise to
make it work,” Elmendorf said.

He said there might also be
problems with loan collection.

“If I were a student, I'd be
concerned about having the IRS
rather than a bank in charge of
loan collection,” Elmendorf said.
“[The IRS is] not a great agency
to deal with when you have a
dispute.”

Elmendorf said the free—mar-
ket competition that exists among

. banks in the loan business now
would be absent in Clinton's plan,
and service would suffer.

He said Clinton’s proposal
would “scrap a very good pro-
gram that works.”

But the president said the cur-
rent system needs reform.

Cl See LOANS, page 7

US News and World Report.”

  
   

irvild art

M Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring—tum Phi

Marvin C. Henberg, ’70, addressesthe Phi Beta Kappa
Convocation Wednesday. Thirty-two seniors, seven
juniors and seven members of the class of ’92 were
inducted into the Gamma Virginia Chapter at W&L.
flenberg talked about the power of the wilderness as
an influence on the American character.

Speaker, ceremony
celebrate information

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Reader RelationsvCoordinator

The Ring-turn Phi is plarming to com-
memorate Freedom of Information Day
Monday with a speaker and dedication to
the late Professor Clark R. Mollenhoff.

Rick Swagler, Esq., ’84, will speak
Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel on
“The Fight for a Free Press: All Is Not
Quiet at the Front.”

Swagler, a former editor—in—chief of
the Phi, is a staff attorney at the Washing-
ton—based Reporters Committee for Free-
dom of the Press and is the managing
editor of its publications, including the
quarterly magazine “The News Media and
the Law.”

The Reporters Committee provides free
legal assistance to journalists to ensure
“fast, full and free information and help in
battling for First Amendment protections
against government interference.”

Also on Monday, at 3 p.m. in front of
Reid Hall, the Phi will dedicate a tree in
memory of Mollenhoff, formerly a pro-
fessor of journalism.

Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer Prize—winning
journalist, was a staunch advocate of press

access to government documents. As a
professor, he stressed thorough record re-
search and corroboration of facts.

Mollenhoff taught at Washington and
Lee from 1976 until his death in 1991.
Prior to his teaching career, he was a
reporter, author, syndicated columnist and
presidential omsbudsman.

An obituary in The Ring—tum Phi in
February, 1991 , called Mollenhoffaunique
individual, a man possessed of a vigorous
work ethic and unshakable integrity. That
integrity led to his turning down a bribe
from Teamsters leader Jimmy Hoffa, tell-
ing the man who controlled multi-millions
of dollars in Teamsters pension funds,
“You can’t afford my price.”

Mollenhoffhadanurnber of distinctive
classroom idiosyncracies and physical

_ traits that helped make him unforgettable.

He stood 6’4” tall and weighed in the
neighborhood of 240 pounds, with a rum-
bling voice to match. Mollenhoff was af-
fectionately known as “The Boomer”
(though never to his face), a nickname he
acquired in Washington from berating bu-
reaucrats and politicians for corruption
and duplicity. Student who came to class

C] See MOLLENHOFF, page 7

Pamphlets promoting sexual assault awareness are available in the

Dams:
DAis't::It»:Rc>I:s_r

    

  

University Center. Sexual Assault Awareness Week runs March 15-21.

Coalition promotes
assault awareness

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

To increase awareness of sexual as-
saulton campus, several groups will spon-
sor a Sexual Assault Awareness Week
March 15-21.

The Health Education Committee,
Dean of Students Office, Women’s Fo-
rum and Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault are the sponsors.

“The biggest thing we want to get
accomplished is to get awareness out,”
said Dionne Blyden, a co-chairrnan for
the week. “There are ways of getting help
within or outside the university.”

This year, Associate Dean of Students
Anne Schroer-Larnont said she has coun-
seled four W & L women for rape and two
for sexual assault .

According to Dean of Students David
Howison, no formal reports of sexual
misconduct have been forwarded to the
Student Faculty Hearing Board, which is
authorized to hear sexual misconduct al-
legations involving W&L students. As-
sociate Dean of Students Anece McCloud
said there have been two informal reports
of sexual misconduct.

Blyden said lapel ribbons have been
available in the University Center and
library since March 3 to heighten aware-
ness of sexual assault. Schroer-Larnont
said the ribbons have been in great de-
mand.

Blyden said booths will be set up next
week near the Co-op and the GHQ where

people can tie a ribbon for people they
know who have been sexually assaulted.
Co-chairman Cara Snyder said students

‘ will also be able to express their opinions

on sexual assault on quote boards set up at
the ODK Circle and in the University
Center near the Generals Headquarters.

Blyden said the first formal awareness
program, featuring a video developed last
year by W&L seniors, will be Monday at
7:30 p.m. in the Gaines third-floor lounge.

On March 18 at 5 p.m., keynote speaker
Ron Campbell will lead a discussion “For
Men Only” in the Troubadour about
changes in relationships between men and
women.

Campbell, a human sexuality educator

and the director of housing at George I

Mason University, has conducted over
200 workshops around the country and
specializes in talking to men, Schroer-
Larnont said.

Campbell will give a second talk en-
titled “Sexpectations” on March 18 at 8
p.m. in the Lenfest Center's Keller The-
atre. On March 21 at 6:30 p.m., there will
be a Speak Out in front of Lee Chapel
followed by a candlelight march. After-

ward, there will be a healing service for‘

sexual assault survivors, their families
and friends in Lee Chapel.

Snyder said sexual assault is a problem
that needs to be addressed in a thoughtful,
tasteful and reflective manner.

“We want to recognize the connection
between alcohol and sexual assault,” she
said. “We want to raise campus conscious-
ness.”

 

PAGE 2

 

 

@112 Tfting-tum lﬂht

Founded September 18, 1897

‘I love you,
you love me’

Have you been reading all this ﬂap about Barney the Dinosaur?

Parents say that big, purple Bamey, who appears on PBS in the
early morning, after the bars close, when only children are still
awake, is too juvenile.

Hey, folks, guess what! The dinosaurs died! Barney is not real!
All you kids shut your eyes —- Barney is a man in a really hot,

rubber suit. In fact, it’s not necessarily the same man every time.

OK, kids, open your eyes again.

Kids like Barney because he is juvenile. Children are juvenile.
That’s where we get the word.

ForGod’s sake, parents, if you don’tlike Bamey, stop watching
him! Sleep in! If the kids don’t have to watch “MacGyver,” you
don’t have to watch the dinosaur. After all, which would you rather
your kids be doing? Singing and dancing, or building a bomb out
of household cleaning agents?

Now go to your room.

Dress safely

Good news for the Ladies Hospital Auxiliary. Bell bottoms,
clompy footwear and those kind of whispy-gypsy skirts are all
coming back.

We want you to know that we can see all of you from our
windows in the Phi office as you go to class. We can see what you
wear. And we’re armed.

If any of you have the urge to wear any of these returning ’70s
fashions, be sure you also equip yourself with a Keflarm vest
underneath those duds. Emphasis on “duds.”

And while we’re on the subject of fashion, can you believe the
nerve of people who wear Reeboks with their tuxes to FD?
Imagine. As tactless as a newspaper editor.

What we really need is a Fashion Committee. We could have a
new dean in charge of it. It would all be behind closed doors, of
course, to protect the innocent victims of fashion faux pas. If
refonn were deemed possible by the committee, the person would
get a second chance. Otherwise, adios!

Tax man cometh

It’s that time of year again.

Remember the little birdies that packed up their little birdie
luggage last fall and went south? Well, they’re back.

And you have only about a month left to ﬁle your taxes. We
have some tips for before you begin:

1. If you’re blind, plan on reading the instructions very, very

carefully. There are alot of special breaks forblind people, but you L

have to read the instructions very, very carefully.

2. If you are prone to motion sickness (or if you’re just prone),
take a Dramarninem. You’ll be going in a lot of circles and getting
nowhere fast.

3. Review basic trigonometry. Nothing fancy, but you’ll be
asked to compute the circumference of the earth with your armual
income. Scratch paper is allowed, but no watches that beep.

4. Start now. It’s probably too late already. But start now. In the
instructions to the 1040, you ’ll ﬁnd estimates to the minute of how
long it takes to fill out any given form (we’re not making that up).
First of all, who sits there with a stopwatch and figures that out?
Second of all, multiply by six to ﬁnd the average time for humans.

Quote of the Week

Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 4. If under 65 and not blind,
stop here.
— Internal Revenue Service, Form 1040 Instructions

The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1992

OPINION

 
 

\\T,Yj" kl,

lTI" 1,, lj;_1l_ .l

at J
\ - a

 ,ea‘;§*‘aita  Q“

\‘j

0

PresidentMCIinton pl ys the Nixon Card

WASHINGTON —~ Bill Clinton

for a Russian aid program. His courte-

partisan favor.

;

at Key Biscayne. Over Cokes, the tzvo

played the Nixon Card this week. He
invited the former president to the White
House, received him upstairs in the
family quarters, then sat down to talk

ous reception of Nixon has already
graced Clinton, as well as his Monday
evening guest, withamagnanimity that
often separates the big leaders from the

 
 
 
   

politics —— Rus— small.
sian politics. There are
Likeanyfree precedents.
trade. the ex- CHRISTOPHER InMayof
change ben- 1945, just a
efited both par— MATTHEWS month after
ties. _ Tribune Media F ran kl in
For NIXOTI, S - Roosevelt’s
the value of that en/Ices _ death placed
Monday himinthe
eveningisincal— presidency,
culable. Harry
Twenty-one years after Watergate, he Truman invited Herbert Hoover tomeet

was back at the White House, offering
his counsel to a Democratic president.
Thanks to Bill Clinton, he has regained,
at 80, the honor of serving his country.

The benefit to Bill Clinton is also
apparent. At 47, he has spent his life
learning politics, American-style.
Nixon, who speaks the same language,
can translate conditions in Russia with
the kind of verve and color the younger
man can well exploit when he meets
President Yeltsin April 3.

But his meeting with Nixon was
more than a tutorial. That he could
have gotten over the telephone. Hav-
ing the only U.S. president ever to
resign his <0ffIC€ back to the White
House was a far grander gesture. It may
help Clinton win Republican support

him at the White House.

For Hoover, who had been driven
from office 13 years earlier and
villainized thereafter as the arch-de-
mon of the Great Depression, it was a
poignant moment. For Truman, a man
of guts, it was merely the right thing to
do to a former president, and the right
time to do it.

Truman did more than have Hoover
for a visit. He asked the former presi-
dent to oversee the European food re-
lief program, a role similar to the one
Hoover had played in the months after

World War]. Next, he asked the former.

Republican chief executive to chair a
commission overhauling the entire
Executive Branch of government.

In 1960, Hoover returned the non-

Once again, the country was in tran-
sition. John F. Kennedy and Richard
Nixon had just fought the closest presi-
dential election in modern history.
There was rampant bittemess about

chatted about the election, let the pho-
tographers take their pictures, let the
country know that the election was
over, the country had a new President.

This Tuesday evening at the White

vote-stealing in
Chicago, talk of
a recount, talk of
throwing the
presidential
choice to the
House of Repre-
sentatives. Only
one man could
end the divisive
chatter andmake
even his most
ardent support-
ers accept the
painfully close
results of the
prior week’s
election:

The man who
had lost it.

This is where
Hoover came in.
At the request of
the Democratic
candidate’s fa-
ther,
Kennedy... the

former Republican president called. “iittwas the guest who

Joe .

This Tuesday evening at
the White House, the
country beheld a similar
ratiﬁcation. Nixon, forced
to resign the office a gen-
eration ago, came to ad-
vise the first representa-
tive of the country’s new
generation of post-Cold
War leaders. Bill Clinton,
whose own wife, Hillary,
served as a staff counsel
to the House Judiciary
Committee which voted
to impeach Nixon, re-
ceived him.

I-,.’.«»

House, the country
beheld a sim1.rar
ratification.
Nixon, forced to
resign the office a
generation ago,
came to advise the
first representa ive
of the countr ’s
new generation of

. post-Cold War

leaders. Bill
Clinton, whose
own wife, Hillary,
served as a staff
counsel to Hie
House Judiciary
Committee which
voted to impeach
Nixon, received
him.

As in each
meeting beforel—
Truman
Hoover in 1945,
Nixon
Kennedyin 1960,
stood mostto gain,

and,

and _

I Richard Nixon to say that John Kennedy

would like to meet him.
Nixon agreed, receiving Kennedy

' but it wasthe host who shined bright-
est. ‘ g

o 1993, Tribune Media Services, Inc. G

Elite iﬁing-tum ilﬂlrt

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Chicago falls flat on educational promise

WASHINGTON —Tuesday in Chicago an eman-
cipation may begin. A judge will decide whether to
hear a suit brought by some inner city parents and
children, charging that the state is failing to fulfill its
education duty.’ The suit seeks an empowering
remedy-—vouchers, with a value of the pro rata share
of state funds allotted to the children’s education.
The vouchers would be redeemable at public or
private schools.

Welcome to judicial ac-

sarne student population,” and have “extensive pa-
rental involvement.”

The suit’s “parental liberty” claim goes like this.
Children are subject to compulsory school atten-
dance laws. Parents are subject to compulsory taxa-
tion for public schools, to which children are as--
signed primarily by residence. The parents in this
suit, like most Chicago school parents, lack the

resources to move in search of
better public schools. So,

tivism of the sort advocated
by the Institute for Justice, a
Washington group of young
libertarian lawyers. Their
civil rights suit for their Chi-
cago clients charges that the
children are being denied a
benefit guaranteed by Illi-
nois’ constitution, and that
the parents are being denied
a liberty (“essential inﬂuence, control or choice over
their children’s education”) implicitly guaranteed by
the U.S. Constitution.

Illinois’ constitution asserts: “The state shall
provide for an efficient system of high quality public
educational institutions and services.” No one can
seriously say that is being done for Chicago’s inner
city students, 80 percent of whom are black or
Hispanic. So, is the constitutional language
justifiable or meaningless? ‘

The average graduation rate in Chicago’s public
schools is 43.7 percent, 43 percentage points below
the statewide average. Less than one of every three
Chicago public high schools has a graduation rate
above 50 percent. About 70 percent of public school
students score below the national norm in a standard-
ized test of basic skills, and substantially below
statewide averages. Thirty-eight of the 64 high
schools have ACI‘ college admission test scores in
the bottom l—yes, 1— percent of the nation.

Chicago’ s bureaucratized system expends $5,548
per pupil, about $750 more than the statewide aver-
age, but only 56 percent of the total budget goes for
classroom instruction. The parents’ brief notes that
private schools provide better cognitive results at
less per pupil expense “in the same neighborhoods as
the city’s worst public schools and draw from the

  
 
   

GEORGE WILL

Washington Post
Writers Gropp

given the stark inadequacies
of the public schools, it is ger-
mane that the U.S. Supreme
Court has invalidated state
action that “unreasonably in-
terferes with the liberty of
parents . . . to direct the up-
bringing and education of chil-
dren.”

The court has also held that
“providing public schools ranks at the very apex of
the function of the state.” But what recourse have
poor inner city parents when the provision consti-
tutes an educational caste
system that stunts the life

tute an educational “guarantee”? That language says
“the state shall provide . . . ” The Illinois Suprdne
Court has held that “ in construing statutory provi-
sions . . . the word ‘shall’ is regarded as indicative of
a mandatory legislative intent.” Why would that not
be true of constitutional provisions as well? .

Both Illinois and federal courts have exercised
judicial review regarding, for example, whether pub-
lic schools have provided, as required by law, “ap-
propriate” education for disabled pupils. Therefore,
the brief argues, courts can decide whether Illinois
clearly is not providing “an efficient system of high
quality” education. And the voucher response is
within the court’s remedial powers because it is
analogous to the practice of ordering public payment
of tuition for disabled pupils at private schools when
public schools are unable to fulfill their obligations
to such pupils.

The Institute has a similar suit on behalf of some
residents of South-Central Los Angeles. In that
city's unified school district fewer than 5 percent of
schools report scores for ninth graders above the
50th percentile nationwide in standardized tests.oAt

two of the high schools .

attended by plaintiffs,

chances of their chil-

scores rank in the bot-

dren? In the words of the
court’s 1954 school de-
segregation decision,
when a state undertakes
to provide public educa-
tion, it “is a right which
must be available to all
on equal terms.” A
voucher remedy would

.be egalitarian.

The parents’ brief
stresses that they “do not
seek to second-guess any
legislative judgments, to
displace any statutes, or
to disturb bureaucratic

Both Illinois and federal courts
have exercised judicial review re-
garding, for example, whether pub-
lic schools have provided, as re-
quired bylaw , “appropriate” edu-
cation for disabled pupils. There-
fore, the brief argues, courts can
decide whether Illinois clearly is
not providing “an efficient system
of high quality” education.

tom 1 or 2 percent in
statewide math and
reading tests. The 1990
dropout rate in Los An-
geles public high
schools (40.9 percent)
was twice the statewide
rate.

The graduation rate
for inner city private
schools nationwide.is
about 97 percent. .

As in Chicago, the
issue is: Can a state
entirely evade judicial
review of whether it is

discretion reasonably exercised.” Rather, “the focus
of this litigation is not how the defendants should
fulfill their duties . . . but instead whether they have
fulfilled” them.

Does the Illinois constitution’s language consti-

performing constitutional duties? A particularly
pertinent question, given that about half the Chic or
public school teachers with school-age children sgd
them to private schools.

© 1993, The Washington Post Writers Group .

LETTERS

Student denounces Contact’s speaker choices I

To the Editor:

The Contact committee provides
Washington and Lee with a tremen-
dous opportunity to bring thought-
provoking, educational, stimulating
and challenging figures to the univer-
sity whose knowledge and insight can
enrich our collegiate experience. Un-
fortunately, it seems that the current
authorities on Contact are more inter-
ested in bringing trivial celebrities with

little depth or substance to offer stu-
dents.

This disappointing trend hit its nadir
with the visit of Dick Vitale whose
inappropriate and expensive appearance
was followed up this year by Rocky
Bleier.

Why are we lavishing exorbitant
funds to bring sports celebrities to speak
at the university?

Other invitees have included right-

wing darlings Gordon Liddy and Ed
Meese, men most prominent not for
their vision, intelligence or contribu-
tions but for their appalling corruption.
This campus is crying out for deep
intellectual engagement and enlight-
enment and we invite, at considerable
cost, sports celebrities and right-wing
heroes?!

These speaker selections reﬂect a
disturbingly unarnbitious outlook by

Contact authorities and are embarrass-
ing to the University; they make Wab-
ington and Lee look like a haven for
intellectual slugs!

I doubt that I am alone in finding
them absolutely absurd. Perhaps more
unsettling is the silence with which,
until now, these poor decisions have
been met. Q

Justin Peterson, ’94

 

 

    

The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1993

 

Spos tights ticket with ‘L.A. Law’ style

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

‘Hey folks! Did everybody have a
good weekend? Spos sure did. I’d like
to tell you the story about how I ended
up double-fisting vodka and triple sec
on my front porch in my bathrobe this
weekend, but I don’t wish to bore you.
Bl¥)the way, Ted Nugent says hello and
p mises the release of a new “Damn
Yankees” album right after he lands his
first grizzly bear. Don’t hold your
breath.

Anyway, I suppose I should get on
with it and tell you about Tuesday
moming’s ordeal, which I will refer to
a§

The Day Spos Went to Court and
Kicked Ass.

It all started on January 28 of this
year. I allegedly got out of bed, alleg-
edly found out I was late for work,
allegedly threw on some clothes and
altgedly hopped in my trademark VW
Beetle. I was allegedly in a hurry,
because Officer H.N. Ferguson of the
Lexington Police Department alleg-
edly stopped me for allegedly doing 38
miles per hour in an alleged 25 mile per
hour zone. (Understand that I have to
u& the word “alleged” in its various
forms in order to avoid incriminating
myself.)

Anyway, Officer Ferguson alleg-
edly gave me a summons to appear in
General District Court on March

day morning, I planned my strategy. I -
would stroll into the courtroom in a
Corbin Bemsen-like manner and catch
the Lexington justice system com-
pletely off guard by asking confusing
questions in “legal-ese” and generally
acting like an obnoxious Perry Mason.

As I sat in the courtroom, I felt
really confident about my legal de-
fense. Officer Ferguson had made a
seemingly fatal mistake on my sum-
mons by describing Spos as a black-
haired gentleman, which Spos clearly
is not. (I have brown hair.) He also left
the eye-color box blank, thus indicat-
ing that Spos had no eyes at the time of
the alleged incidence of speeding. With
Ferguson’s competence as a police of-
ficer in such a state of question, Spos
ﬁgured he couldn’t possibly lose the
case.

When the judge called my name, I
strode calmly and confidently to the
stand, swore my oath and pleaded not
guilty. Officer Ferguson was there and
he explained that Spos was speeding in
front of City Hall and should be pun-
ished accordingly. He had this look in
his eye like he would derive much
pleasure from seeing Spos strung up
and ﬂayed with a live electric line for
the unforgivable crime of speeding
within city limits.

Then it was my turn. I asked the
judge’s permission to interrogate Offi-
cer Ferguson. Permission was granted,
and Spos proceeded to grill Ferguson
with regard to why he would describe

“Officer Ferguson,” Spos asked,
“How would you describe the color of
my hair?”

“I’d say it’s brown,” he answered. I
had him right where I wanted him.

“It appears that you described my
hair as black in color on this sum-
mons,” I said. I fully expected the
judge to bang his gavel atthis pointand
dismiss all charges. I was wrong.

I grilled Ferguson about the eyes
thing, asking him why he didn’t fill in
the eye-color box on the summons.
After all, my New York State license
clearly states that I have blue eyes.
Several W&L students in the back of
the courtroom started to giggle. At this
point, the judge knew I was reaching
and cut in.

“Would you like me to fill in that
information for you Mr. Hespos?” he
asked.

Thus having my primary defense
completely ripped apart by Judge
Doofus, I had to resort to Plan B. I
noticed that Officer Ferguson had failed
to testify with regard to the calibration
of his radar apparatus, so I immedi-
ately started bitching about it. This
too, failed.

Judging from the giggles I was get-
ting out of the rest of the people in the
courtroom, I was making Ferguson look
like an incompetent biscuithead, but
the big guy on the bench didn ’t seem to
notice. Legally, I wasn’t getting any-
where. The judge cut in again, giving
me a five—minute lecture on the great
technological advances that have been

the past year. He said that they have
devices that can accurately estimate
the speed of a vehicle, even if the police
car is traveling in the opposite direc-
tion (as was the case with Spos’ alleged
violation). I was unimpressed.

Just as I was about to unveil Plan C,
(the famous “Ronald Reagan despera-
tion defense” in which Spos would
claim that no one could possibly re-
member what they were doing last] anu-
ary 28) the judge cut me off again. He
asked me if] was aware that the road I
was allegedly traveling on is desig-
nated as a25 mph zone. Before I could
answer, Judge Doofus asked me if I
had been paying attention to my speed-
ometer. “No,” I responded.

The judge then exercised a well-
known legal technique known as “The
I’in—tired-of-1istening-to-this-defen-
dant—bitch-and-moan technique” and
immediately delivered a guilty verdict.
However, he was nice enough to re-
duce my fine from $65 to $46. He also
plea-bargained me down to a 34 mph
speeding charge, thus keeping points
off of my license. I thanked him po-
litely, even though points acquired in
Virginia do not apply to my New York
license.

After I paid my fine, I walked back
to my car, humming the theme from
“LA. Law” and wondering if it was
too late to pull up my GPA. so that I
could apply to W&L Law. Immedi-
ately dismissing the thought, I hopped
in the SposMobile and took off for
work, knowing that a career in law is

'9,1993, toanswer formyheinous crime.

09 my way to the courtroom on Tues- 110t-

me as black-haired when clearly I was

Student wants U.S. out of Bosnia

To the Editor:

"Let a people believe in government om-
nipotence, and they will be pretty certain to get
up revolutions to achieve impossibi‘Iities.”

. Herbert Spencer, Social Statics.

Five people are dead, two remain missing,
and thousands lay injured in the aftermath of
the most recent terrorist attack on United States
soil, the World Trade Center bombing. In light
of this threat to American sanctity, I offer a
question free of partisan overtones and subjec-
tige or suggestive rhetoric in the following:

When does the safety and security of the
American citizen outweigh the idealistic search
for world political dominance?

In order to explain my opinion on the search
and its possible side effects, I will use the theory
of the FBI, Time, Newsweek, and U.S officials
that the bombing may have been a retaliation
f3r the United States involvement in Bosnia.

The basis for these allegations comes from
the past threats of the Serbs toward Washington
in connection with our enforcement of eco-
nomic blockades and the no—fly zone in Bosnia.
In addition, the leader of the Serb Radical Party,
Vojislav Seselj, personally vowed revenge
against the United States government for de-
claring him a war criminal due to his involve-
ment in the “ethnic cleansing”. Finally, the
March 8 episode of Newsweek explicitly states

. that the America’s “ increasing involvement in
the Bosnian crisis may have made it a target for
Balkan terrorism long before the trade center
bombing.” Specifically, the article spoke of the
CIA killings in Langley, Va. The shooter
claimed that he killed the agents to protest the
mistreatment of fellow Muslims in Bosnia.

Now, the connection with Bosnian involve-
ment is still under investigation, but the fact
remains that the United States may be at risk or,
more specifically, the American people may
lose a portion, or more, of their safety and
security due to a crisis in which America has no
place. In my opinion, the national government
needs to clearly explain its reasons for involv-

Interviews and Photos

y Darran Winslow
Layout _by Jennifer McCann

ing itself in a civil war. We have no real
economic interests in Bosnia nor do we have a
responsibility to protect the peace in every
dissolved country. I do not recall Yugoslavia,
or any European nation for that matter, comin g
to America during the War Between The States.
They did not intervene because they knew that
they had noplace in an internal national struggle.
The people of America are allowing a self-
important national government to exercise its
idealistic humanitarian prowess when it actu-
ally stands to gain nothing for its trouble.

The United States is completely alone in
Bosnia, except for Turkey and the Netherlands,
since the NATO members refuse to offer any
planes or supplies. These countries, allied coun-
tries, see the ineffectiveness of outside involve-
ment in a civil war, but the bleeding hearts in
Washington are blinded by the possibility of
political gain. Ironically, the political gain will
be nominal at best, as even U.S. officials stated
that the airdrops into Bosnia will really be no
salvation. We cannot allow this novice admin-
istration, at least not at this early period, to
become entangled in an international skirmish.
While Michael Stipe of R.E.M. may want the
United States to set up ‘help desks’ in every
troubled nation, the fact is that the United States
does not have the money, the time, or the
responsibility to intervene when it has no real
interests in that nation or area.

In conclusion, I will explicitly answer the
question I offered earlier in this statement. The
safety and security of American citizens should
always come before any idealistic search for
humanitarian utopia. Economic interests and
protection of U.S. citizens should far outweigh
any other endeavor. In the future, I hope that
government learns to limit itself and its
“searches” before the public suffers dearly for
its incompetence.

Paul E. Wright, ’95
Press Secretary and Spokesman, Washington
and Lee College Republicans

made in the realm of traffic radar within

out of reach. Too bad. It’s their loss.

Republican ideals
seem distorted

To the Editor

Year of the Woman? Not at Washington and Lee — or at
least, not according to the College Republicans. Their poster
pondering the question: “Why are Democrats’ daughters so ugly
— they make Republican women look like movie stars” was, to
be honest, funny. Sure, the women shown on the grainy, blurry
photocopies would never make Playmate of the Year.

But if the Republicans had ventured beyond the sidewalk
leading up to the library where they had placed their poster, and
had actually gone inside, they would have seen an impressive
and tliought—provoking display on prominent women —— l992’s
standouts such as Susan Faludi and Dianne Feinstein, and also
female leaders from the past, including Carrie Chapman Catt and
Eleanor Roosevelt. . . .

Beauties? Perhaps not. -But the Democrats with the homely
daughters are teaching us all alesson. The Democrats love their
daughters for characteristics beyond high cheekbones and straight
tumed—up noses. The Democrats value women for their contri-
butions to society — not their ornamental appeal. I’m left
wondering, do Republicans value their daughters? And, if so,

why?

Pamela Patton

Development, Prospect Researcher

TALKBACK

 

,. can-rx~a-~

primate
§BAllGlll'£llS so 

 
   



COLLEGE FlEl7liBllCtltN$ liEEl3llG

Il3ﬁ¥.’i,9iJi.i7.£3i?.?’§.5‘.li.,WK{31K.‘s9l'llC§¥'ri€W


 

Poetry Contest

The National College Poetry
Contest is open to all college and
university students desiring to have
their poetry anthologized. Cash
prizes will be awarded to the top
five poems. The deadline is March
31. For contest rules, send a self-
addressed, stamped envelope to:
International Publications, P.O. Box
44044-L, Los Angeles, CA 90044.

Internships

For information on various sum-
mer internship opportunities please
contact Professor Connelly in the
C-School room 108, or at463—8627.

Republicans

There will be a College Republi-
cans meeting Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.
in the Mock Con office. The topic
of the evening’ s debate will be “Ter-
rorism and Methods to Deal with Its
Increase.”

Elections

Petitions for Executive Commit-
tee class representatives and class
officers are due March 15. Elec-
tions will be March 22.

Lost

Lost - small brown leather key
pouch made by Mark Cross. If
found please call Stefanie at 463-
6586. There is a reward.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum will host a dis»?

cussion on “Women’s-Health for a” -'

Lifetime,” led by Dr. Jane Horton
on Sunday at 6 p.m. in the Women’s
Center. Topics will include: nutri-
tion, exercise, weight control, smok-
ing, cholesterol, calcium and
osteoperosis, breast cancer, repro-
ductive health issues, etc. Every-
one is welcome.

Write and Rub

A Turkish Bath invloves much
rubbing and sweating. It’s nice and
it breaks down decorum. Writing to
the Phi only involves sweating.
You’ll have to provide your own
rubbing.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

AIDS

The W&L chapter of the Na-
tional Lawyers’ Guild is sponsor-
ingan AIDS symposium on April 1.
The event will be held from 2-6
pm. in the Moot Courtroom of
Lewis Hall, and will feature a panel
discussion followed by a question
and answer session with audience
members. All members of the W&L
community interested in the legal
and social ramifications of the dis-
ease are encouraged to attend.

Preston Society

The Preston Society is a Com-
munity service group that is dedi-
cated to promoting better relations
between W&L and VMI. The soci-
ety is seeking new student mem-
bers to help us in promoting our
cause. We assemble at 7 p.m. on
Wednesday nights in front of Lee
Chapel and then walk to VMI to
hold our meetings. If you are inter-
ested, please come to our next meet-
ing, or call Tom Hespos at 464-
5511. All memberspof the W&L/
VMI community are welcome.

Film Society

The ‘W&L Film Society is
pleased to announce the presenta-
tion of “Toto Le Heros” at 8:05 p.m.
on Friday and Saturday in the Trou-
badour Cinema, at the corner of
Main and Henry streets. As always,
there is no charge for admission,
and everyone is welcome to attend.

Retreat

There will be a retreat at Skylark
for Washington and Lee women on
March 19 and 20. For more infor-
mation call;464--5,681. .

ill

Pub Board

The W&L Publications Board
will meet at 7 p.m. Sunday in room
114 of the University Center. At-
tendance is mandatory.

Vote

Class elections and a constitu-
tional referendum will be held
March 22. All students, even se-
niors and third—year law students
may vote in the referendum.

, What does Washington and Lee’s fraternity system
mean to you?

 

 

 

Richard Weaver, ’96, Vero Beach,
Fla. —- “Beer, really great beer like
Keystone and Keystone Light.”

Alex Cross, ’95, Phoenix, Md. —

AnnaStarling,’96,Raleigh,N.C.— Ian Falk, ’95, Flemington, NJ. and Drew Denbo, ’95, San Francisco, _
“Plenty of parking.”

“On the weekends it allows me to Calif.-— “Chicks.”
socialize with true southern gentle-
men.”

Jay Didier, ’96, Inverness, Ill. _— “It'
provides me with the opportunity to
study the custodial arts.”

 

A symphony of strings to perform at Lenfest

oloists, Soviets, strings

By Iﬁusr/t TAURINS
Phi Staff Writer

When the orchestra for this
Saturday ’s Concert Guild performance
couldn’t make it, the orchestra man-
ager asked if Washington and Lee
would accept a different group.

“The European Community Cham-
ber Orchestra had visa trouble, so they
couldn’t come, ” said Professor Timo-
thy Gaylard, head of the Concert Guild.
“They have the same manager as the
Soloists of Montpellier—lvloscow, so

 

they’re sending them instead.”

Gaylard says the groups are of equal
quality.

The Soloists, an ensemble founded
in 1986, is made up of 20 Russian
string players.

While their repertoire is tra-
ditional, their appearance is
unique because most of
the members stand dur-
ing performances. ‘.—\-— ~ — 

Last season, the So- \__
loists performed in
Great Britain, France, .-/ll
Italy, Switzerland, Ger-
many, Japan, Australia,
Mexico and Greece.

By agreement with the
city of Montpellier, the orches-
tra performs in and around the city
each year.

Cellist Julian Lloyd Webber will
solo with the Montpellier—Moscow
group on Saturday.

Lloyd Webber comes from a musi-
cal farnily—his brother, Andrew Lloyd
Webber, composed “Evita” and “Cats.”

His father, William Lloyd Webber,

Cellist Julian Lloyd Webber on
the left and Soloists of
Montpellier—Moscow below.

Publicity Photos

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom
combination. Private Bath. 10-month
lease. Singles only. Call 463-3835

  
 
    
 
 

   
  

is a composer and professor at The
Royal College of Music.

Julian Lloyd Webber won a schol-
arship to the Royal College of Music
when he was sixteen.

The following year, composer Sir
Arthur Bliss asked him to per-
form Bliss’s own Cello
Concerto at the Queen
Elizabeth Hall in Lon-
- -~ --—/ don,markingthebegin-
/ ning of Lloyd
Webber’s intemational
career.
 Lloyd Webber has
\ released over 30 com-
\l\\x pact discs.

He is known for playing
modern works in addition to
standard cello repertoire. Soon to be
released on the Philips label is a disc of
Tchaikowsky’ s Rococo Variations and
his Nocturne for Cello and Orchestra,
Miaskovsl-;y’s Cello Concerto and
Dmitri Shostakovich’s Cello Solo.

The Soloists of Montpellier—Mos—
cow with Julian Lloyd Webber will
perform Mozart’s “Divertimento” in F
major, K. 138, Hadyn’s Cello Con-
certo No. 1 in C major, Barber’s “Ada-
gio for Strings,” and Tchaikowsky’s
“Serenade for Strings” in C major.

The concert will begin at 8 p.m.
Saturday in the Lenfest Center.

A reception will follow the concert.

 

Florida SPRING BREAK
7 nights Beachfront
A $139 - 159
Reserve rooms NOW
Call CMI 1-800-423-5264

A in 1; Is;  of S O L; .1‘) ‘R iii '1‘ l R 1-: .\t I-1 N '1‘

l.\'\'lCS'l‘l.\'(}

UNFORTUNATELY, THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

 

© I 993 Téachtrr Insurance and /l nnuily Axrorthlihn/C0//(yr Retire/run/‘ Eqluiltlt-I Funa-

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes.They
don’t take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAS.
SRAS not only ease your current tax-
hite, they offer a remarkably easy way
tobuild retirement income-especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security beneﬁts may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on

your SRA are tax~deferred as well, the

system.

happy returns.

Beneﬁt nawfmm tax de_f'ev-ml. Call our SKA botline 1 800-8424 733, wt. 8016.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality of life.

What else makes SRAS so special?
A range of allocation choices—fr'om the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversiﬁed investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity—-all backed

by the nation's number one retirement

Why write off the chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF
SRAS can help you enjoy many

FEATURE S

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1 1 , 1993

ii Py Photo

The Reduced. Shakespeare Company

To be . . . ornot to be’

Actors perform 15-minute ‘Ham

From a Lenfest Center Press Release

ARNING - This show is a high-speed roller

coaster—type condensation of all

Shakespeare's plays and is not recommended

for people with heart ailments, inner ear dis-

orders and/or people inclined to motion sick-
ness. The Reduced Shakespeare Company cannot be held
responsible for expectant mothers.

With this warning we are introduced to the Reduced
Shakespeare Company, which will present “The Complete
Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged)” at the Lenfest
Center. on Tuesday and Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Keller
Theatre.

The RSC presents 37 Shakespeare plays and 2,154
sonnets in just under two hours.

The performance has been described as “Shakespeare
written by the Reader’s Digest, acted by Monty Python and
performed at the speed of the minute waltz.”

The troupe combines elements of classic theatre, left
wing literary analysis, punk rock sensibilities and a few
World Wrestling Federation body slams.

Adam Long, Reed Martin and Jess Borgeson comprise

let’ in an abridged repertoire

the RSC. .

These gentlemen came together in the San Francisco Bay
Area in the early 1980s and began with busking — street
performing — for spare change on the weekends.

They eventually developed a 15 -minute version of “Ham-
let” in 1981.

After performances at a succession of festivals and
Renaissance fairs, the troupe created its “Complete Works,
(Abridged)” for the Edinborough Festival in 1987.

Acclaim, or perhaps notoriety, from the Edinborough I
appearance sparked interest in the group.

The RSC has performed across America, in Canada,
England, Scotland, Wales and for extendedruns in Dublin
and Melbourne.

Individual tickets for the Lenfest Series performances.
are on sale at the Lenfest Center box office.

The box office is open from noon to 4 p.m., Monday
through Friday and two hours prior to any performance.

Tickets for the performance cost $10 for adults, $7 for
senior citizens and non-W&L students and $3 for W&L
students, faculty and staff.

The RSC performances are made possible in part by the
support of the Washington and Lee Class of ’64 Endowment‘
for the Arts.

 

  

 

' e Ring-tum Phi, March 1 1, 1993

 

  

 
 

Another legend says that on March
17, St. Patrick removed the cold stone

    
 

Norfolk featuring live Irish music and
dancing.

IIPIEATURES

 

    

 

required, according to Brian Shaw, the public relations chairman of

the convention.

u’re not the

ne who’s car
is this

annuals»
' ugvwui uvmin.
.;- y..s.mum.- em...

«nah.

Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller:
a full Macintosh line for all your needs.

Wmg

n1
0 zilot of

  ' Colonnade Crossword
1 Analyze a
SBDIBFICB
3 grsf gp.
. ‘* wiss ei
‘Ioc{ay's5 t. ‘.Patrick's ii‘. iggtggghgﬁiciai
_ f h _ m h d 16 Shakespeare's
B JEANNE BRIGGS andMATr DILLARD mm‘ eS“.eam’meamng at “““?e "sprite"
y Phi Sm“ wmers the worn side of the stonelup, ending   S3‘: 533:?’
5 _ the cold weather and allowing farmers / 20 period of time
he history of Patrick, to begin planting their crops. . 21 Got up
Ireland’s patron saint, is The tradition of wearing green on \\\\ /‘ 22 State °‘ °'‘5
somewhat obscured by leg— St. Patrick’s Day comes from another \\ _ 23 g°srg',f;'y
end. He was born late in the legend, which says that St. Patrick’s ,-- ’ ‘$5 25 Unpleasant
founhcenttlryinpresentday followers were put in a house made of if \ sound
Wales, England. He was baptized dry wood, while aProtestant’s follow— /' gg gggfdegttanee
. . . . . grain

Christian, but his early life was charac- ers were put in a house of green wood, / 29 Depot abbr,

terized by worldliness and debauch- and both houses were burned. The A _ 32 Cleans teeth

ery. Protestants, according to legend, were :5; Fer“? SP3“

Atage 16,Patrick wastaken captive all burned to death, but St. Patrick’s 38 g;:"p,ef_

by Irish marauders and pirates along followers were not harmed, and wore 39 Free time

with hundreds of young men and green on St. Patrick’s Day from that 43 F’er_S0n 0'

women from the region in which he time on. 46 g;’r'|?y“° ©‘,",§’?,,I_,',",‘,’S"',;‘§,s"',‘,",;‘,‘,‘§,5°""°°‘- ‘"° 03/11/93

‘ lived. All of them were sold as slaves e identification of the shamrock 47 Reugious my Last Week's Answers:
in Ireland. with St. Patrick evolved because he 48 — Coty _ 6 Confronts
During his six years as a slave in used the three-leaf plant to demon— ‘;51’ﬁ.a":;)°PP';‘9n gig“ '”?sr 9

Ireland, Patrick experienced his spiri— strate the Catholic doctrine of the Trin- 55 G933, ,§;'," a' p,a,',‘;° 5 ° 39

tual awakening. In a drearri, God told ity, which says that God is the Father, 57 Thorny flowers 9 Washing

him how to escape from captivity. the Son and the Holy Ghost. 59 M°t>“°'5 State? "13 mdians _

. Following the instructions, he returned The Irish expression “drowning the 60 haﬂtzgré 0, We 1 w::h°s' '" 3
safely home to England. shamrock” means to go drinking in poetry 12 Tennis barriers
_ Upon his retum to England as a honor of St. Patrick’s Day. It was the 61 Musical, 13 Otherwise

more spiritual man, Patrick felt a call— only day during Lent when Irish Catho— 63 g:)‘fg”°"°“5 18 gf,';$°a°°'

irig to go back to Ireland and share his lies were allowed to eat and drink as 54 Japanese 24 Facilitates

religious beliefs with the Irish pagans. much as they wanted, and the tradition money , 26 B6 in debt

By the time of his death late in the ﬁfth of drowning the shamrock has existed :2 'aZ%?'§'r°§°;?.?s 3(1) 83?’:

century, he had much success in con— for over 100 years. 57 F351 piane p 32 “Spied

' vening the Irish,and Ireland was on the St. Patrick’s Day is celebrated with » 68 Strong point 33 in _—— or _
path to Christianity. much more excitement in the United DOWN 32 ggggdago being
After leading one of the most suc- States by Irish—Arr_iencaris than in Ire— , Gena,” horse appraises 43 Gm 53 Bias

cessful missionary lives in history, land. In Ireland, the holiday is a reli— 2 Love, Italian 40 Fabled animal 44 Pry bar 54 Demi--—

Patrick diedon March 17, 461. Today, gious day of church ceremonies, and 3 lg:/rlteainin to 41 Eétgfeball 45 Rfglfgme 22 Pl°§r:e'‘"d 0%?

he is known as the father and founder the Irish donotcustomarily drink green kidneys 9 42 occupy me 50 am who qumes 58 Unclosesv ,0

Of the  Of Ireland. beer OT march III parades. BUI In l.hC 4 Tennis term complete authority poets

‘ The Irish have many legends sur- States, it is a much more festive occa» 5 Trips t0|' tasks attention 52 Cate Patron 52 Uncle: SP-

rounding their patron saint, most of sion. Every year, one of the biggest A.._.

which deal with his travels in Ireland annual parades held in New York City

after his return. The most common is is on March 17, with as many as 125,000 I

the story of how he drove the snakes people marching down the two-mile

out of Ireland, although most histori- parade route. Held since 1762, the ,   n   m e  i
ans agree that there were no snakes in parade usually lasts six hours and at- _ _ i

0 Imlmd anhe time, tracts more man one miuion spew- 50 years _ago — The Executive Committee proposes an amend— 
According to16th century historian tors. I ment to revise elections and change representation. Only three ,
Andrew Boorde, the “snakes” were This year locally, the St. Patrick’s officers lthe president, vice-president and secretary of the student 
stones that had the shape and form of Day Rock Around the Block Parade body) will be chosen at elections. Other positions will be appointed. 3
the animals. The Irish people claimed will be held in Roanoke on March 17. 3 _ 1 . 5 
these rocks were snakes, but they had It is a participatory parade where ev- i Five years ago — Although W&L s Mock Convention is only two 
been turned to stone by the power of eryone is invited to join in. There is l weeks away, 400-500 student delegates are still needed. There are ;
| Godacting through St.Patrick. also a St. Patrick’s Day celebration in 1 (WY 1:200 delegates ’eQ'5Y9Ied 0U't 0f the 1.5004700 that ale 1
l

    

7'/76 7zeu'/lpple i
/llacmtosb M [I].

7799 m:u‘Apple

Macintosh Color Classic. Mczcmlosla Cmms 610.

for even more power, the Macintosh Centiis” 610. See these new computers
today at your Apple Campus Reseller. Where you’ll get special student pricing,

Right now, your Apple Campus Reseller has the most affordable new
line of full-featured Maciritoslf oomputers ever. Theie’s the Apple” Macintosh
Color Classic”— a solid performer at a remarkable price. The Macintosh aswell as service during college?‘ And experience the power of Macintosh. ’
LC III, which runs 50% faster than its top-selling predecessor, the LC 11. And, The power more college students choose. The power to be your best? 

. I For further information visit the Computer Center in
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844

‘.\'er1'i'ce ivdlrlilrlhle oillrfrvln A/We (km:/Iu.i' k¢’.\!‘”(’l'.\‘ lrbid m1'A/1/tieAulb0ri:ctl.\2'rrice I’mrizIvi.\‘. ©/99} A/I/I/t’ (.0111/iii/mt Ir/ti All I'.fL'/J/.\' ."£’.\'t'l'l‘(‘(/ xl/l/I/1’. //Jt‘ . l/l/‘It’ /iiuii. .lIrIt'IIi/iii‘/.i 1i‘lI(/ "'/lit‘ /IlIlI'l'l' In /)1’ l'IHIl' bu‘/" rIl‘(‘ Ii1L'I.\'/i'i'i'z/ /l'zI(/L‘I}.'1ll'4’.\‘ 12/ :1/I/I/t’ (.'zim,'w/oi’ //IL‘ lliiriii/ri\'l.i (It'll/I'I.\' !.i' (l /l'(I(/t'IlI([l'l’ 0/ xl/I/I/t‘ (hm/iiiloiz /Ill’ (,'lii.\'iit’ 13‘ ii l'lf-’,‘d\'/('l‘l’// /I'll!/t’Ill1Il'4’ lIt't‘ll.\t’i/ /I‘ I/1]‘/t‘ ( ‘vIii_/ii/li'i. M:

L

 

 

These are the proposed constitutional amendments
that will goto a referendum beginning on March 22. The
Executive Committee has endorsed the amendments,
but the EC does not necessarily endorse the ration-
ales. The rationales are those presented to the EC this
winter, and several are drawn from the Constitutional
Revisions Committee report to the EC in May, 1 990. The
full text of these proposals and rationales is available
at the EC and Fling-tum Phi offices for review. Half the
student body must vote in the referendum to validate
it, so every vote will count. All students may vote.

STYLE
PURPOSE: To correct the gram-

mar and style of the Constitution and ~

make it stylistically consistent.

LANGUAGE:

On all references, change:

{T he Ring-tum Phi [capitalize first
word]

Vice-President [delete hyphen]

[for example,] $1,010 [or] $10,010
[add commas where missing]

SUCCESSION OF OFFICERS-

ELECT

PURPOSE: To ensure proper suc-
cession of President—Elect, Vice Presi-
dent—Elect, or the Secretary-Elect of
the Student Body, and establish the
procedures that should be followed in
the event that one of the above defined
officers—elect leaves the University
prior to taking office.

LANGUAGE:

Add to Article III, Duties of Offic-
ers, D, a new section 43:

3. In the event that the Student Body
President-Elect, Vice President-Elect,
or Secretary—Elect, leaves the Univer-
sity prior to officially taking office as
defined by Article XI, Section D, 3,
and both the Undergraduate and Law
School have at least ten days of class
session remaining, then the Executive
Committee shall, pursuant to Article
V, Section Fand Article XI, Section C,
hold a special election in order to fill
the vacated position. If a Special Elec-
tion as defined above cannot be held in
a reasonable manner, then Article III,
Section D, 1-2 will control the succes-
sion of Student Body Officers—Elect.

RATIONALE: It is the belief of
the Constitutional Revisions Commit-
tee that in order to avoid the Constitu-
tional crisis faced in the spring term of
1989, that the preceding provision is

I required. It is the intent of the drafters

of this clause that under no .circum-
stances should the three Student Body
Officers—Elect be replaced by a special
election without full participation by
both the undergraduate and law stu-
dentbodies. The above provides a com-
promise solution that if sufficient time
remains in both the undergraduate and
Law School sessions of the University
a special election could be held by the
Executive Committee, but in the event
that at least ten days of classes do not
remain, the normal course of succes-
sion would follow.
VOTING REGULATIONS
BOARD

PURPOSE: To give Constitutional
sanction to the Voting Regulations
Board.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, Sec-
tion D, to read:

D. It shall establish a Voting Regu-
lations Board to superintend Student
Body elections and shalt decide the
validity of the same in case of a contest.

RATIONALE: One of the Execu-
tive Committee’s wisest decisions was
the establishment of the Voting Regu-
lation's Board to supervise elections.
The absence of such a supervisory board
in the Constitution is striking and dis-

appointing. As the Constitution reads

now, incumbent Executive Committee
members may makejudgments regard-
ing the eligibility of challenging candi-
dates. This change will eliminate that

danger.

MAINTAINING QUORUM
AND FILLING VACANCIES
PURPOSE: To ensure student rep-

resentation by election in all cases while
guaranteeing that the Executive Com-
mittee maintains a working quorum at
all times.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, Sec-
tion F, to read:

F. It shall have the power to fill
vacancies occurring in Student Body
offices and all positions of honor. In
such-easesra Elective oﬂices will be
filled by election. The notice eal-Iirrgfor
applications forsuch vacancyies must
be shall be published ten days before
the election as provided for in Article
111, Section C, 6.

Change Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, Sec-
tion H, to read:

H. It shall remove any of its mem-
bers for continual non—attendance and
appoint-his and see to the installation
of a successor as provided for in Sec-
tion F of this Article.

Add to Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, a new
Section, to be called Section J, reading:

I. Any quorum requirements that
result from the removal of officers, in
addition to the timing of elections for
such vacancies, shall be filled accord-
ing to the guidelines of Article V, Sec-
tion I, Sub—sections 1,2, and 3.Tempo-
rary appointments may be made in the
event that Sub-section 4 is required.

Re—name Article V, Sections K
through P.

RATIONALE: It is the belief of
the Constitutional Revisions Commit-
tee that the self-appointrnent power of
the Executive Committee is one that
could be misused and is adverse to
elective student representation. Elec-
tions are the first and most desirable
option. However, quorum needs and
the 10-day rules of elections may tie
the Executive Committee’s hands. To
avoid this, the above proposes the use
of the spring term replacement rules
for temporary appointments caused by
removal. This solution leaves the Ex-
ecutive Committee at quorum strength
at all times while assuring the Student
Body that every effort is made to have
vacancies filled by officials selected
by the Student Body. ,

THE EC-PUB BOARD RELA-

TIONSHIP

PURPOSE: To reinforce Publica-
tions Board autonomy and bring the
Constitution and the Publications Board
constitution into agreement.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, Sec-
tion G, to read:

G. It shall have appellate jurisdic-
tion of the Publications Board and may
after notice and hearing, and upon two-
thirds vote of the entire Committee at
two successive meetings, reverse any
order of the Board, provided that the
first vote occur within three academic
weeks of the Board order in question.

Change Article IX, Student Activi-
ties and Fees, Section B, 4 to read:

4. All net profits of publications
accredited by the Publications Board
shall revert to the Publications Board

Cape Cod House for Rent - One or
Two Year Lease. Located on Rt. 39
on the river, approximately 9 1/2
miles from Lexington. Oil or wood
furnace, 5 bedrooms, full basement,
dining room, living room, den,
large kitchen. Call 348-5210

 

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard redlt Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the worId...Visa® and MasterCard@
credit mrds..“ln your mme.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA!’ and Mair.-rCard0 the credit cards you
deserve and need Ior— ID-BOOKS—DI-ZPARTMENT
STORES-—TUITlON— ENTERTAINM ENT-
EMERGENCY (MSH-—TICKE'IS-—RESTAURAN'IS——
HO,TELS—MOTEI.S——GAS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

Approval absolutely guaranteed so
MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1 1, 1993

STUDENT BODY NOTICE

This is dense, but it’s important’

Reserve Fund, which shall be at least
$23500 $3,000.

Change Article IX, Student Activi-
ties and Fees, Section C, 2, c to read:

c. The Treasurer shall keep in a
separate account a fund of a minimum
of $27500 $3,000 to be known as the
Publications Board Reserve, for use
for publication purposes only, and sub-
ject to disbursement only upon request
of the Publications Boardand-approvai
 The Vice Presi-
dent shall have access to Board ac-
count statements from the Business
Oﬂice.

RATIONALE: The threat of gov-
ernment intervention prevents the Pub-
lications Board from functioning as it
should. Most matters brought to the
Board are referred by member publica-
tions, but there is a reluctance to refer
an issue with the possibility that the
Executive Committee could overrule a
Board order, even an endorsement of
an editor’s decision. There could arise
a situation, however, in which the Ex-
ecutive Committee would be justified
in overruling the Board, especially
given that the committee has a vested
interest in The Calyx (a mandatory
subscription). The Constitution seeks a
compromise, demanding consecutive
votes of the entire Executive Commit-
tee to overrule, but the compromise
lacks any sort of “statute of limita-
tions.” That is the purpose of the first
change above. All Board business, even
behind closed doors, is open to a repre-
sentative of the Executive Committee,
who may promptly report any potential
problems to the Executive Committee.
Three weeks should be sufficient time
for the Executive Committee to take
contrary action. Even if the Board de-
cision is made right after a regular
Executive Committee meeting, there
would still be time to post notice and
have a hearing a week later, and for the
committee to take its first vote a week
after the hearing, to avoid hot-headed
responses. The language regarding the
academic calendar ensures that the
Executive Committee will have time to
act even if the Board decision occurs
prior to a break.

The second change resolves a con-
flict between the Constitution and the
Publications Board constitution which
has been outstanding for three years.
The Publications Board constitution
calls for a $4,000 minimum to the
Reserve Fund, while the Constitution
calls for only $2,500, $3,000 is a rea-

sonable compromise, and the Publica-

tions Board has agreed to amend its
constitution if this change passes Stu-
dent Body referendum.

The third change enhances Publica-
tions Board autonomy by eliminating
the mandate that the Student Body Vice
President approve all Board expendi-
tures. This is a cumbersome procedure
which is not currently observed, thus
the change would bring the Constitu-
tion in line with current practice. The
nevi/"language guarantees that the Ex-
ecutive Committee would still oversee
all Board expenditures, to guard against
misuse.

NOTE: The Constitution as it stands
mandates aPublications Board Reserve
Fund which, the text implies, exists on
the same plane as the Central Student
Body Fund; i.e., at the end of each
academic year, the Publications Board
Reserve Fund is not supposed to revert
back to the Central Student Body Fund,
and the Executive Committee is not
supposed to remove money from the
Publications Board Reserve Fund.
Current policy should be amended so
that these procedures are observed.

STUDENT CONDUCT COM-
MITTEE

PURPOSE: To bring the Constitu-
tion in line with current Student Con-
duct Committee procedures developed
by faculty and students in 1992.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Section 0 to read:

0. By the direction of the faculty it

shall be the duty of the Executive Com-
mittee to supervise the election of stu-
dents to the Student Conduct Commit-
tee  ‘ ‘ '
wi-set

RATIONALE: The clause shown
stricken here suggests that when the
Constitution was first enacted, the re-
lationship between the Student Con-
duct Committee, the faculty and the
Executive Committee was as yet un-
certain. Now that relationship has been
better defined, and that clause is super-
ﬂuous.

NOTE: The addition of Student
Conduct Committee President to the
Student Body Officer elections in Ar-
ticle XI comes under the subject of
Student Conduct Committee, but the
relevant proposal is included here un-
der the subject of Elections.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

PURPOSE: To define Executive
Session and to state when the Excel}
tive Committee has the option to meet
in Executive Session.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Section P to read:

P. 
Executive Session is deﬁned as a ses-
sion of the Executive Committee that is
closed to the public. People who are
not presently serving on the Executive
Committee can be present only at the
express invitation of the Executive
Committee.

Add to Article V, a new Section Q:

Q. The Executive Committee may,
on a vote of two-thirds of a present
quorum, decide to enter into Executive
Session only in cases involving Honor
Investigations, Honor Hearings, Inter-
views for Committee Appointments,
Deliberations on Awards and Commit-
tee Appointments, Disciplinary Hear-
ings involvingcommittee members and
officers, and cases involving breach of
confidentiality as described in the White
Book. The Executive Committee must,
after making committee appointments
in Executive Session, post the voting
record on said appointments. In the
event that the Executive Committee
decides to discipline a Committee-ap-
pointed chairman or member, the Ex-
ecutive Committee, in a regularly
scheduled committee meeting, shall
fully describe all facts and circum-
stances surrounding the disposition of
the matter.

Add to Article V, a new section R:

R. The Executive Committee, when
involved with Honor Investigations and
Honor Hearings, shall two weeks after
the final meeting concerning that par-
ticular case post in public areas a state-
ment that an Executive Session was
held. No other information should be
provided unless deemed appropriate
by the Executive Committee.

RATIONALE: (Text from the
Constitutional Revisions Committee:)
Executive session as stated in the con-
stitution is only to be used for handling
honor violation situations. All other
situations including committee inter-
views are to be open: any person wish-
ing to attend the meeting may do so,
without permission from the Execu-
tive Committee. The door is to be
opened at all times and a Ring-tum Phi
reporter is allowed to attend.

Past and present Executive Com-
mittees have chosen to disregard the
constitution on this issue. Committee
members state that interviews are not
held in Executive Session, but rather
behind “closed doors.” Much of the
uproar against the Executive Commit-
tee over Executive Session involved a
meeting during the fall, 1989 when
Alex Hitz presented an SAB report on
Fancy Dress. He asked for an Execu-
tive Session and was granted the re-
quest. He reasoned that if the budget
for that year’s Fancy Dress were re-
vealed, attendance at the ball would
suffer, because SAB was spending ap-
proximately $20,000 less than the pre-

GAMES, HOBBIES,

CRAFTS PLUS. INC.

Open Monday through Saturda 10 to 5
31 S. Main St., Lexington 46 -3355

& CRAFT SUPPLIES

Spring

CANCUN, NASSAU

from $299

Organize a small group
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

Break:

for FREE trip

   
  
   
  

No credit
No security deposit!

if
:——Qu——QQ—Q:Qnu———Q$Q——

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PI_ANTATION.FL 3331

vious year.

The constitution states clearly the
only situation when an Executive Ses-
sion can be invoked. The Executive
Committee though has seen fit to
change the rules, and the present guide-
lines have become irrelevant. The Ex-
ecutive Committee up to this point has
been invoking Executive Session by a
simple majority vote. This is unconsti-
tutional.

Executive Session will constitute a
private meeting of the Executive Com-
mittee. Only persons directly involved
in the proceedings are allowed in the
room. The Executive Committee is
given the authority to invite people
who are not serving on the Executive
Committee to be present during this
session. The time and date of the meet-
ing are to be undisclosed until two
weeks after the final meeting involving
the case. At the time that the individual
under investigation is present in the
Executive Committee room, that per-
son must approve all persons who are
asked by the Executive Committee to
attend the meeting.

Asacommittee we must setspecific
guidelines to when an Executive Ses-
sion can be called. The Constitutional
Revisions Committee considers the
right of confidentiality of individuals,
other than Executive Committee mem-
bers, to be the foremost consideration
in addressing the question of Execu-
tive Session. If confidentiality is not an
issue in a particular hearing, then this
committee feels that that particular ses-
sion should be open to all individuals
who wish to attend.

SUBSCRIPTIONS
TO PUBLICATIONS

PURPOSE: To give the Executive
Committee negotiating power in its
funding of student publications.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article IX, Student Activi-
ties and Fees, Section A to read:

A. With the approval of the Board
of Trustees, an activity fee which shall
be set by the Executive Committee by
a two-thirds vote of those present, shall
be payable at the time of registration
and will cover the current school year.
The Activities Fee shall entitle the payer
to yearly subscriptions to tThe Ring-
tum Phi, and The Calyx to be negoti-
ated by the Executive Committee with
the respective publications; to admis-
sion to all Glee Club concerts, and all
debating meets; and to all other func-
tions, publications, and activities as the
Executive Committee may announce.

RATIONALE: The current sys-
tem binds the Executive Committee to
purchase an annual subscription to The
Ring-tum Phi and Calyx at any rate the
editors might set.For the Executive
Committee and publications to main-
tain a proper business relationship, the
Executive Committee must be free to
cancel a student subscription, turn down
a subscription, or negotiate the price of
a subscription.

ELECTIONS AND THE SCC
PRESIDENT

PURPOSE: To revise the require-
ments for election scheduling to give
the Executive Committee greater ﬂex-
ibility, and to ensure that elections are
timed in such a way as to maximize
participation.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article XI, Elections, Sec-
tion A, 1 to read:

1. '
as-y-1-of-each-year,-a A petition with the
signatures of 150 students shall be re-
quired from every candidate for Presi-
dent, Vice President, and Secretary of
the Student Body and for Chairman of
the Student Conduct Committee. The
election shall be held on the-tenth Mon-
day and the ninoff election on theThurs-

day of that-week the same week, to be
designated by the Executive C 0mmit-
tee under Article XI, Section D, 4.

Change Article X], Elections, Sec-
tion B, 1 to read:

1.

tl-anu-ary-I-oi"-eae-h-year,-a A petition
with the signatures of 50 students shﬁl
be required from every candidate for
Executive Committee and Class Offi-
cer. The election shall be held on the
Monday  CCk and the
runoff election on t-he-Thursday of that
week the same week, to be designated
by the Executive Committee under /3‘-
ticle XI, Section D, 4.

Add to Article XI, Elections, Sec-
tion B, a new section 3:

3. Petitions from Executive Com-
mittee and Class Officer candidates
required by Sub-section 1 in this Sec-
tion B must be due at least one we k
after the election of Student Body f-
ficers is complete.

Change Article XI, Section D, 4 to
read:

4. In January of each year, i-f-t:he

‘ F . I. l . 3
strtutien the Executive Committee shall,
by two-thirds vote, set the dates for
winter elections. Notice of such-change
the election dates shall be '
 published in
every The Ring-tum Phi issued-during
 four consecutive
issues prior to the date petitions are
due.

RATIONALE: Every Executive
Committee at least for the last four
years has invoked the two-thirds-v3te
loophole in scheduling class elections,

Clearly, then, the Constitution's sched—A ’

uling scheme is too restrictive.

The Constitutional Revisions Com-
mittee also addressed this issue. Then-
Executive Committee President
Willard Dumas asked the commitke
for more ﬂexibility in election sched-
uling as his number-two priority in
revisions (number one was officer—elect
succession).

The changes outlined give the Ex-
ecutive Committee complete flexibil-
ity in scheduling elections around Ole
undergraduates’ February break and
winter exams, and around the law stu-
dents’ break and exams. The additional
sub-section guarantees that scheduling
flexibility cannot be misused to put
Class Officer Elections before Student
Body Officer elections. Finally, iie
flexible schedule allows that the two-
thirds-vote loophole can be removed,
since it provides an Executive Com-
mittee majority of incumbent candi-
dates a dangerous and unnecessary
power. The final statement regarding
The Ring-tum Phi ensures adequate
and timely notice to the Student Body
no matter when elections are held.

NOTE: The language adding the
Student Conduct Committee President
to the Student Body Officer elections
was included in the 1992-93 Hand-
book, though it never went to stud nt
referendum, and thus was never a e-
gitimate constitutional revision.

Let’s have
Ci constitution
we can work with‘.

VOTE
YES _

in the referendum
beginning
March 22.

LLENT

       
       
   

Free Details: SASE to

EXTRA INCOME NOW!

I ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week 9 

International Inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn. New York 11230

 

 I want VISAG/MASTERCARDQ Credit

Cards. Enclosed Ilnd 85 which is 100% refundable if not

approved Immediately.

NAME

ADDRESS
CITY
PHONE
SIGNATURE

 
 

NOT!-1 Mastercnrd is a Iqnstered tndernark d’ Nhstedhrd International Inc
Visa is a registered tndermrlt oI’VISA USA. Inc. and VISA lnkrmdonal

100°/o GUARANTEED!

Services Assoeialon.

STATE _. ZIP
S.S.”

 

I I
ciudrotronics

AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO
DENON sow
ADCOM ALPINE '
TOSHIBA MARANT2
KEF cwo
aosron osrmmve
xupscu BAZOOKA

’ SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

’ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

' CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER ‘
' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

‘ MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden 8: Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1993

    Hams Teeter

 

MEANS iowiiiiciis

Phi to honor Mollenhoff

REDUCED PRIC _
40 - 50 COUNT

 

O

L'i.s.i>.A. CHOICE
JUMBO PACK

    
 

LB.

PAGE 7

El MOLLENHOFF, from pae 1

unprepared on a regular basis soon came to empathize with
the numerous politicians who had been on the business end
of his earthy bellow.

One of Mollenhoff’s golden rules in the classroom was
that only students physically larger than him were allowed
to wear hats. He liked to point out that in 15 years of
teaching, only one student met the qualifications.

Mollenhoff believed in the virtue of hard work. He took
pride in the fact that after graduating from college, he went
to law school and played two sports there, all while working
40-hour weeks for the Des Moines Register. Keeping in the
spirit of hard work, he gave extensive three—hour exams and
required his students to have writing assignments prepared
for each class period.

However, Mollenhoff was able to retain an understand-
ing of the pressures on the undergradaute student, and all but
the most ﬂagrant abuses of his good faith in his students

Clinton plans to

could be forgiven by what he called the “milk of human
kindness,” which always seemed to flow from his heart
when he calculated grades.

A classic Mollenhoff pose was one of him reclining in a
chair in his office, discussing a problem in government over
the phone with a U.S. senator or other prominent political
figure. He kept scrapbooks filled with newspaper clippings
about issues he was working on, and despite his size it
appeared at times that he was going to be buried under the
avalanche of information.

Mollenhoff’s contributions to student growth at Wash-
ington and Lee did not stop at the doors of Reid Hall. Many
non-majors who would otherwise have never even set foot
in thejoumal ism department enrolled in his classes to see for
themselves what a Mollenhoff class was like.

“The Ring-tum Phi wanted to honor the memory of an
outstanding contributor to our community and to journalism
at Washington and Lee,” Phi Executive Editor Cathryn
Lopiccolo said. “Professor Mollenhoff left a lasting impres-
sion on everyone who met him.”

reform loans

 

CALIFORNIA STAR
RUBY RED
GRAPEFRUTT

5 LB. BAG 2 2

 

  
    
   

  

p‘ 0’. .... 
«.3

 

REGISTER TO WIN IN
HARRIS TEETERS

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 LITER
.9 9
  PEPSI
A
v

ANGEL SOFT- 157.5 50. FT.

BATH
TISSUE ........ ..4 ROLL PKG.

USAir® REGULAR OR COUNTRY STYLE
DONALD DUCK 9 9
ORANGE JUICE 54 oz. 0

 

.79

FLY WITH THE 5ZA§;§;Ag;3{'GE/ 399
'   COAST SOAP...... 8 BAR

CI LOANS, from page 1

Clinton said the current student loan
system encourages graduates to take
jobs in which they will make more
money to pay back their loans sooner,
but said it encourages them to contrib-
ute less to society than they might with
a lower-paying job.

“So what we seek to do is to enable
the American students to borrow the
money they need for college and pay it
back as a small percentage of their own
income over time,” Clinton said.

Elmendorf said Clinton proposes to
ﬁnance the national service program

x n x : n n : : x : I I I n I x : I I I I I I llll.l1llllllllllIlllIlllIl__|1lllIlllllllilllllilllll

with savings generated by the switch to
direct student loans. Unlike banks, the
government would not have a profit
margin.

But that could fail, Elmendorf said,
if the government has to spend more
money on loan administration than the
competitive banks spend.

CBA cites a report from a research
division of the Library of Congress that
says direct student loans could cost the
government more than the loans cost
banks if the government cannot match
private-sector efficiency.

Washington and Lee Director of
Financial AidJohn DeCourcy said CBA
wants to ﬁght direct student loans be-

cause the banks make money from the
loan system. '

“They’ve got a guaranteed loan ”
he said. “They can’t go wrong with it.

But DeCourcy agreed with CBA’s
skepticism of efficient government
management and said loan manage-
ment could turn into a bureaucratic
monster.

“Here we’ve got the govemment,”
DeCourcy said. “Ten years down the

road, we’ve got this incredible mo-.

rass.”

DeCourcy also said that if direct
student loans fail, the banks might not
invest the money in people and pro-
cesses to get back in the business.

Four Bedroom house for rent
for next school year
Ca“ 4.§§.:§.3§.§....

Illlllllllllllll

 
 

. . . . . . . . . . - . . I1_|J._l1..Il.1_l_1l111|lJ|llllIIlllIll||||lK‘|’I[]l|lIIIlIIIl1'.II[|||||

l,.We.’veﬁmnd the bottestplacese
 at the lowest prices I

 1’ Ah/I '

A The travel guides
you can count on for fun
within your budget

‘en’ q £0.95-FJCR.

OWT

   
    
 
 
 

   
    
 
 

Let's Go: 0 Europe 0 Italy 0 Britain & Ireland 0 France

SWEEPSTAKES A55ORT-ED FLAVOR5 0 Germany, Austria & Switzerland 0 Greece & Turkey .
Ygu could win one  These Fabulous    ' Israel & Egypt ' Spain & Portugal ° LOI'lClOl'I ’ Paris ' gOm9 A :/5,’‘
- - - ~ 0 Mexico 0 U.S.A. 0 New York City 0 Washington, D. t.  ‘
Prizes. See Details And Register At The PC COLA ............ .. 2 LTR. . Paciﬁc Northwest’ western Canada & Naska

, Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter. ._ Camomia & Hawaii

 

I 0 One Pair Of Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call l-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

In Each Harris Teeter For March/ April Games.

Find Details And Register At The Cake
Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter.

94

IN THE DELI-
BAKERY

   

6Cl'.

9 HUNTER
ALL NATURAL
ICE CREAM

 

4- 15 oz. ASSORTED
RAVE HAIR CARE
PRODUCTS

 

. Prices Effective Throu

Prices In This Ad Ellective Wednesday, March l0 Through Tu

gh March I6, I993  

esday, March l6, T993. In Lexington stores only.

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal tood btamps.

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando   ' LET’ Go, I .
Florida For The Game With Orlando   i_ ‘ V A suuiouimr or HAﬂIlAsRD S1'|I“:EllT Aosiiciiis, Inc.
Magic, Inclludes Ail: Fgi-8 On U.Si(Air H If * _r t 31. MARTIN'S Pass: 1
Accommo ations n ame Tic ets.

0 ﬁne Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,  - ..r- .3-.' -2- -¥- 1''’ 5;-' F -'!=‘ g -7: "9'

.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes THE LENFEST SERIES

Game Tickets 8: Hotel Accommodations. presents

 

‘-1.

HE REDUCED SHAKESPEARE
A   COMPANY

'Z-any, ﬁilarious, acroﬁatic, and pure fun -- Q)O9\C‘Z"9l{I.53 PT!’

 

 
 

 
   
    

Tickets & Reservations 463-8000
T J: 11*

-\.

March 16 & 17 at 8:00 PM
LENFEST CENTER

0 Noon - 4 PM 0 Monday thru Friday '  

Pi;

3: "‘==._<‘-"-"'0-. '

 

 

Last Week:

Base- B’water 8,W&L 3 (0-2)
MLax— W&L 13,F&M 7 (2-0)
WLax- W&L 18,B’water 3 (2-0)
WTen- W&L 5,R—MC 2 (2-1)

Golf— 2nd at B’water

PAGE 8

S

PORTS

@112 ﬂing-mm Iﬂlii T" 5 Week

I
Base- at R-MC(2) 3/ 1 3

MLax— Roanoke 3/13 2pm .
WLax- Salisburt St. 3/13 2pm

MTen- Nazareth 3/12 3pm

WTen- Hollins 3/11 3pm;Nazareth 3/12
T&F- at B’water 3/ 13 (M&W)

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK&F|ELD

MARCH 11, 1993

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Fling-tum Phi

Look at the goalie, actually between the 7 and 6. That little white blob is Lisa Dowling’s
shot that flew past the Bridgewater goalie. It was a familiar sight for the Eagles net-

minder. Dowling scored six goals and assisted on three others. Her nine total points
was a new school record for points in a single game.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

The Washington and Lee
baseball team is a perfect ex-
ample of a paradoxical team.

The Generals have three home
runs in their first two games.
That’s half the total of all of
1992.

However, the team has only
managed to bring five runners
across home plate, while giving
up 12.

W&L ran into another stone
wall Tuesday, losing to
Bridgewater, 8-3.

Freshman Graig Fantuzzi re-
tired 12 of the first 13 batters he
faced and took a no—hitter into
the fifth.

That’s where the Eagles am-
bushed him. They scored six runs
on five hits, with two walks and

one hit batter.

The Generals did excellent
individual performances at the
plate from Geren Steiner and Jon
Hesse. Steiner finished his first
college baseball game 3-for-4.

Meanwhile, Hesse continued
to swing a strong bat in his final
season, going 2-for-5, both hits
doubles.

Fantuzzi has both of the Gen-
erals losses, but his performances
have shown he has a great deal of
promise.

The Generals go to Randolph-
Macon for a doubleheader on
Saturday.

The W&L women’s tennis
team finally got their spring sea-
son underway, pummeling
ODAC rival Randolph-Macon,

By SEAN O’RoURi-(E
Phi Sports Editor

What image do you get when you read,
“I’ve fallen and I can’t get up”?

Answer: a little old lady who couldn’t act
her way out of the bathtub she’ s laying against.

Well, I present you with a new image for
that most infamous phrase.

The opponents of the Washington and
Lee men’s and women’s lacrosse teams. If it
was in vogue to say the Generals slaughtered
their foes, I would.

It has been a fun year thus far for men’s
head coach Jim (don’t call me Vince)
Stagnitta. He has arguably the strongest team
of his tenure, and he has them psyched and
ready to play hard-nosed lacrosse. The team ’ s
first two wins have also developed a winning
attitude on the team.

“Obviously they [the two wins] boost our
confidence,” Stagnitta said. “They show we
have the ability to play with the better teams
and win.”

W&L dispatched of Randolph-Macon last
week. This week brought the 13th-ranked
‘Franklin & Marshall Diplomats, and try as
they might, F&M couldn't negotiate the
Generals’ mines on Wilson Field and went
home losers, 13-7.

“Kids deserve a lot of credit for keeping
their composure," Stagnitta said, “they did a
great job of that.”

Wiemi Douoguih [the second-best name
in all of sports behind Zarry Zalapsky] has
been the spark plug for the W&L offense in
the early stages of this season.

Douoguih opened the 1993 campaign with
four goals and four assists against Randolph-
Macon. He followed that stellar performance
with another one against the Diplomats.

Douoguih tallied three goals and two as-
sists. The senior attackman finished 1992
with 33 points (25 goals, 8 assists). He is now
on a pace to obliterate all W&L single-
season records with seven goals and six
assists in just his first two games.

Joining Douoguih on the Generals’ first
two scoring binges are senior David
Lefkowitz and sophomore Scott Mackley.

Lefkowitz is trying to make his final go-
around with the Generals his best, picking up
six goals and an assist in the first two con-
tests.

Mackley has been a welcomed additionl
retumee. Mackley missed all of last season
with a knee injury, but has proved the wait
was worth it, tying Lefkowitz for second on
the team with six goals of his own and one
assist.

The road gets real tough real fast for
W&L as they welcome the third-ranked
Roanoke Maroons to Wilson Field this Sat-
urday. The winner of this game has the inside
track to the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence title. The past three seasons, the winner
of this game went on to take the crown.

For senior defender Josh Levinson, this
game comes down to who wants it more.

“[A key to the game is] we have to pick up
more ground balls than they do. That’s all
hustle, heart and desire,” Levinson said. “We
have to control the ball better than we have if
we want to win.”

Women’s head coach Janine Hathom has
enjoyed the same success as her counterpart.

In the first two games for W&L, they have
outscored their opponents 38-9.

The Generals opened 1993 by—what’s in
vogue now?-—embarrassing their ﬁrst two
foes. The Quakers of Guilford fell easily.

Lax teams scorch foes; big tests Saturday O

Wednesday afternoon.

Under gray clouds and falling tempera-
tures the Generals kept the scoreboard
operator’s ﬁngers warm once again by com-
piling 18 goals,while only relinquishing three.

At Guilford, sophomore Nicole "Ripken
led the team. At home against the Eagles,g't
was senior Lisa Dowling’s turn to demon-
strate her considerable offensive skills.

Dowling set a new school record for most
points in a single game. She scored six goals
and added three assists. The old record was
eight, held by three different players. Dowlin g
also added to her school -record total for a —
sists. She passed Kimberly Bishop against
Guilford with her one assist.

This performance even pleased Hathom.

“[The team played] very well, they came
out very ready to play,” Hathom said. “It was
a very balanced effort.”

Ripken chipped in four g()als, sophomoﬁe

Lindsay Coleman had three, senior Paige_

Henke and junior Angie Carrington each
added two and Meredith Long scored her
first. Just to get some sort of perspective on
this cremation, the Generals outshot the Eagles
44-12.

But these easy victories do cause Haihoir.n
some problems, especially when it comes to
the team becoming overconﬁdent.

“I’m a little bit concerned about the team
becoming satisfied. I don’t want them to feel
satisfied about what they have done so far,”
Hathom said. “It is something to really look
out for.”

Another something to look out for is tfie

team’s next contest against powerhouse‘

Salisbury State on Saturday. It will be the
team’s first real test, and will prepare them
for the major showdown with ODAC rival
Roanoke next Thursday.

5-2. 1
The team now has the diffi-
cult task of playing six matches
in nine days, ending with top-
ranked Kenyon College.

Senior Claire Dudley and
freshman Rebekah Prince are in
their final preperations for their
trip to the Division 111 National
meet.

Both are competing in three
events. Prince is seeded sixth in
the 200—backstroke, ninth in the
100-backstroke and 20th in the
200-IM.

Dudley claimed the 18th seed
in the 200—breaststroke, 20th in
the 100-breaststroke and 36th in
the 50-freestyle.

The meet is this weekend at
Emory University in Atlanta, Ga.

Next came the Eagles of Bridgewater on

Ahoy, mate

  

 

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

4
A United States Naval Academy runner makes it safelypback to first. The men from Annapolis visited Lexington
to scrimmage the Generals on Wednesday.

Women’s clothing.

  TGIF

OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount

Everyday - GUARANTEED!-We receive
merchandise from America’s most famous mail
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse. Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men ’s and Women’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and

Famous knit tops for women — regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Valley 

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186

 
     
   
 

22

   
 

 

    
    
  

130S.MainSt

     

\\\\\\\V.\

32 dale - TRE — Din k

Lexington Bike Shop

I ia
Jansport day packs and book bags

     

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

    

453-7969

11 W. Nelson Street

W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barbershop

S. Main St. Lexinton - Below First American Bank

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT ‘j

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Robby J ones
(703) 463-2022

  

  

UNIV

 

 m
-£RSlITY

  

SPURTWEAR

Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99

    

oppo of

All Winter Merchandise

\ 

 

  
  

 

  

  

%

/

é

. Z 15 w. WASHINGTON ST
Lﬁxgngttolrli L Bld ) g 500/ Oﬂ LEXll\7l§g'?glA \3//S\O2O445O
D°“'“t°“'“ ° er ' ee 3' / 23 N M ' St 0 (703) 463-5988 ' iv
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 Z .' am ' / ' ' '
703'463'9730     
"'-:-  ‘ __. _.;._._.;. - : H .-:-c-:-:-:-' :-:-:.-:-:-:-:-:—:a:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:~"-:-:-:-:«:-:-:-:-':-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-c-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:7-:-555 f —
g 6 ’ z W&L Art
. a   1870 Washington College Diploma F
— signed “R.E. Lee" '
, .  Signatures:
Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.  Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee. Jr.
t 555 M. Miley John Letcher _
All-U-Can Eat  a 5;; Edward Valentine +
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99  wavlvfzr %o1j{)1I)3erIpleeéti}rllii2t1‘r31&i;3cd<)iltci>(§1e1dart
. . ' u 1-: an . .
Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable  M Scu&pé:1;gl3eyvR§§h;1;111§gS£%ieces
'3' a an
9 1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95 _ -  , ry .
Saturday Night Prime Rib 0  m E m U  id
Queen cut $11.95 ‘King cut $13.95 Truck stop  "
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.  
4   on Route   4 East Washington Street Open Monday - Saturday
:5 We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell " k{‘§5‘3‘3‘§,t§f,‘;6Y,‘‘}5,f445° 10 am’ ' 530 pm‘
 . .' - .3-c.-c-c~c~:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-c-:-:<-:-:-:-: :-:-:-:-c-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:~:-:-:-:-:-:-:-' ..-:-:-:-:-:-:-:+:-:«.-i--:-:-:«:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-1-I-I-I-I-I-'-I-I-I-I-I-=-I-I-I-I-I -------- - -it 

. V I l ’ . ' ~

 

