‘ti-ii‘: us\%:v.=:r.r~-stv Li’.3i-"oi-FY
WA'5H.li\é42'i’CJN   uitm-nslivr

IEXINGTON, VA. 244519 ,2‘ '

OCT 9

4

I992

I few to handle...

 The roommate

3.
: «

from

hell!!!

Yellow Jackets buzz W&L

Don’t miss the action
in the special photo spread

U112 lliing-tum iﬂlti

I VIE 92, NO. 5

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A Other
MSA

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 8, 1992

SCC dismisses Miller

Senior suspended last year found guilty on similar charge

By RICHARD Pi~:i.rz
Phi Executive Editor

iiw Llt.
' FOC

Fllm

Contact

Calyx
Arlel

rrrv-It

0 10

' ' '2'o' ‘ ' '3'o' ' ' '4'o' '
dollars In thousands

rvylvlllrrlrl

50 60 70

EC doles out
lithe big

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee allocated
$235,425 to student organimtions Mon-
day, with the largest portion, $63,000,
going to the Student Activities Board.

The SAB allocation was about
$9,000 more than last year’s. The Stu-
dent Bar Asso-

I’-K&PC/TRTP

bucks

pected on Monday.

Contact received $27,000 from the
EC to be used for speakers of interest to
a large portion of the student body. The
allocation is $2,550 less than Contact’s
request, but $2,000 more than they
received last year.

The EC gave Calyx $75,000, $725
less than they requested. The Ririg-turn

Phi received

ciation re-
c e i v e d
$46,000, the
second largest »
chunk of the
student activi-
ties fund. The
SBA request
was cut about
$6,000,butthe
allocation is
$5,000 more
tlunlastyear’s.
The EC A . .—
voted to set up ‘ '
a ftmd through 29 '55‘).
Contact to be 3" g‘ ~
used to co- '
sponsorspeak-
eiu with orga-
nizations like
the Minority
StudentsAsso-

sneqvuesi  ‘

 51 .926 

  74.895 , r SAB  

Calyx 

    ‘The Ring-turn Phi  

$13,500, the cost
of aweekly sub-
scription for the
entire student
body at about 23
cents per issue.
Phi Execu-
tive Editors
' C a t h r y n
Lopiccolo and
Richard Peltz
told the EC the
subscription
puts more busi-
nessresponsibil-
ity on the Phi and
removes liability
-from the EC for
legal action
against the
n e w s p a p e r .
They said the
student body

91:4 '7?

93.1‘

ciation and
Women’s Fo-
rum. EC President Josh MacFarland
amiointed EC Secretary BobTompkins
and representatives James Rambeau,
Jay Sterne and Ashby Hackney to a
committee, charging them with pre-
paring a proposal for the co-sponsor-
ship fund.

“If we go with the [new fund], both

ups need to agree on the speakers,”
Tompkins said.

A decision on the fund, to which the
EC plans to give about $7,500, is ex-

_lFC to examine Flush

Committee to consider limiting pledge-class sizes

will not pay for
. n e w s p a p e r s
given to administration and faculty.

The EC put $6,000 into the Mock
Convention annual fund and gave
Fancy Dress $7,000, about the amount
FD made last year.

The EC also put $14,000 into its
reserves.

The EC also gave $2,500 to the
Graharn-Lee-Washington Literary So-
ciety and $1,200 to the AIDS Educa-
tion Project. Both are new organiza-
tions.

By RICHARD Pi-21.12
Phi Executive Editor

The IFC formed a committee Tuesday to scruti-

“You force freshmen into situations where they
don’t belong,” Bowen said. “Over the years the
houses are going to become homogenized.”

But lacking a cap could jeopardize the stability of

The Student Conduct Committee voted Tuesday
to permanently dismiss senior Marcus Lamar Miller
from W&L after finding him guilty of harassment,
trespassing and ungentlemanly conduct.

Miller, who returned to school in September after
being suspended by the SCC last fall for a separate
charge of trespassing, would not comment on the
case.

The SCC met in closed session for over four hours
in the Executive Committee room Tuesday night to
hear evidence and decide the case. At about 11:15
p.m., Miller threw open the door and stormed from
the room. He cursed the university, said he would
contact an attorney and left the building. His SCC
advisor, second-year law student John Hussell, fol-
lowed him. ’

“I'm obviouslynothappy with the ruling,” Hussell
said about 30 minutes later. “We’ve got a legitimate
grounds for appeal.”

In November 1991, the SCC suspended Miller for
trespassing, about two months after he pleaded guilty
in Lexington General District Court to trespassing in
a W&L student’s home during the previous summer.

The trespassing charge resulted from a plea bar-
gain, reducing the original charge of breaking and
entering with intentto commita sexual-assault felony,
according to police and court records.

The court on Sept. 24 gave Miller a one-year,
suspended sentence, ﬁned him $500, and ordered
him to serve 50 hours of community service. A court
clerk said Wednesday that Miller has since paid the
fine and served his hours, and that the sentence has
expired.

Miller has seven days to appeal this latest SCC
conviction to a board consisting of Dean of Students
David L. Howison, EC President Josh MacFarland
and Cinda Rankin, the senior faculty member of the
Student Affairs Committee. The Board of Appeals
may not overturn the ruling, but they may return it to
the_SCC for reconsideration.

Hussell said he would encourage Miller to appeal,

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Rin-tui1iPhi

Blake Comer leaves the Rockbridge County Courthouse  1 In huidcutls.

Comer returns to prison

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

alcohol,” Comer said.

“You ran down and killed Miss Scarborou
until now for you to realize you had a drinking problem,”

Charles Blakely Comer came to Lexington last Thursday

prepared to go back to jail.

Last week, Rockbridge County Circuit Court Judge
Rudolph Bumgardner III ruled that a Georgia DUI convic-
tion was a violation of Comer’s probation and ordered
Comer to serve the four and a half years remaining on his
original ﬁve-year sentence for involuntary manslaughter
and hit and run in the 1989 death of freshman Mary Ashley

Scarborough.

Comer served six months in jail for killing Scarborough

in 1990 and was released on probation.

In his 1990 trial, Comer admitted that he was drunk when

he hit and killed Scarborough with his car.

Last week, Comer said he did not drink for months ‘after
getting out of jail in September 1990, but his May DUI

charge showed he had a drinking problem.

“I obviously did not learn about the consequences of

Commonwealth’s Attorney Eric Sisler said.

Comer said he would take part in an alcohol counseling

program while in jail.

not try to cover up his May DUI arrest.

and-a-half years probation.

Maybe four years in jail. Maybe not.”

ghaand it took

Comer’s attorney, Thomas Simons, told Bumgardner
that Comer had been very willing since he got out of jail in
1990 to talk about what he had done. Simons said Comer did

Comer said when he was stopped in Georgia in May, he
told the police officer about the Scarborough killing.

Second-year law student Bob Tompkins was a W&L
undergraduate when Scarborough was killed and when
Corner was sentenced to only six months in jail with four-

“I don't know if it will ever be resolved,” Tompkins said.
“If eight months of hiding with that skeleton in your closet
won’t make you clean up your act, I don’t know what will.

but said he did not know if Miller would choose to do
so.

“The harshness of the penalty did not ﬁt the
crime,” Hussell said.

Hussell also said Miller’s previous record with
the SCC was considered in this case, making further
grounds for appeal.

“In a normal court of law, what occurred in the
past would not be brought up,” he said.

SCC rules do not forbid consideration of previous
cases.

SCC President Reggie Aggarwal, ’94L, would
not comment on the case, citing SCC rules of confi-
dentiality. He also would not identify the female
complainant or where she attended school.

No one outside the SCC office Tuesday would
comment on the case.

Aggarwal did say that he had forgotten to remind
Hussell of the confidentiality rules until after Hussell
spoke to the Phi.

SCC rules prohibit participants from discussing
cases outside the hearings.

Colorful
halftime
hero dies

Shillington, W&L
chemistry professor,
kissed many queens

From the W&L News Office

James Keith Shillington, W&L’s
icon of Homecoming halftimes and
professor of chemistry for 38 years,
died at Stonewall Jackson Hospital on
Sunday of Homecoming weekend. He
was 70. ' .

“Keith was truly a larger than life
character,” chemistry professor Mike
Pleva said. “He was a major inﬂuence
in this department and probably the
one person that an awful lot of doctors

‘ who came out
of W&L wi1lre-
‘ member.”
 Shillington
I had been ill for
some time be-
fore he died.
Shillington’s
colorful dress
and whimsical

p e r s o n a l i t y

made him a fa-

miliar sight on
the W&L cam-
Shillington P.“ ‘° “8°“°“"
tion of students.

For many years, the highlight of
Homecoming football was
Shillington’s halftime presentation of
the Homecoming queen with the tradi-
tional bouquet, accompanied by a
Shillington-sized kiss.

A native of Clarion, Iowa,
Shillington received his B.S. in chem-
istry from Iowa State University and

his doctorate from Cornell. After one
year as an instructor at Amherst Col-
lege, he came to W&L, where he taught
until his retirement in 1991.

Shillington was a co-author of
W&L’s freshman laboratory manual
and the author of his own organic chem-
istry laboratory manual.

Shillington’s talents extended into
the literary realm. His adaptation of
Euripides’ The Bacchants was per-
formed at W&L in 1968. He also wrote

nize this year’s Rush and suggest changes for 1993,
including the possibility of a limit to pledge class
sizes. '

“I think we had enough problems this year,
assessed enough fines, had enough dirty nish, and
the pledge classes were so skewed, that we can
revise the system or have a new system all together,”

terfratemity Council President Sam Rock told the
IFC Tuesday.

The committee of fraternity men will meet to-
night to discuss Rush. ~

When Rock asked fraternity officers to talk about
Rush at Tuesday’s meeting, conversation centered
on pledge-class sizes.

" Rock asked IFC members what they would think
of a limit, or cap, on pledge-class sizes, of 22 men,
for example.

Phi Delta Theta rush chairman Billy Guice said
there should be no cap.

“You shouldn’t every year try to get everybody,”
Guice said. “But there's no reason you shouldn’t be

able to get as many’ of the best guys as you want.”

Kappa Alpha member Andrew Bowen agreed
about having no cap, citing possible consequences.

the fraternity system, Rock said.

“We're in a position right now where we could
possibly lose houses,” he said. “The only way you
could do it [put on a cap] humanely is if you had a
longer time period, with everything open contact.”

That way a freshman would have time to check
out other houses if he were rejected from one, Rock
said.

Guice argued against the extension of Rush.

“You msh for two weeks and that’s all you do,”
he said. “If you rush for two months  that's too
much to ask."

Fraternity representatives also suggested there
be more open contact in Rush. And they argued for
and against clearer definitions of Rush rules and
greater codification of penalties for Rush violations.

Chi Psi pledged three men tear weekend and,
according to Chi Psi President Paul Baker, will
graduate ll seniors in 1993. But Chi Psi Vice
President John Hudson said he opposes a cap.

“If you have 80 guys wanting to go one house,”
Hudson said, “that leaves a lot of angry guys.”

Phi Sta_ﬁ'WriterFairh Truman contributed to this
story.

File hoto
And the battle of the sexes continues!"

A federal appeals court Monday upheld Virginia Military lnstitute’s all-male
admissions policy, but said the state must take some action to protect
women's rights. Judge Paul V. Niemeyer wrote that Virginia could admit
women to VMI, develop a parallel program or institution, or discontinue
state funding of VMI. VMI and The Citadel in Charleston, S.C. are the only
all-male, state-supported schools in the country.

two songs that were performed at a
concert in honor of late assistant music
professor James Tucker Cook Jr. in
1983.

Shillington taught beginning or-
ganic chemistry, considered one of the
toughest and most demanding classes
in the department

In an interview with the Roanoke
Times & World-News in 1983,
Shillington said he liked teaching fresh-
men, but was feeling the strain of so
many years.

“lt’s like being a rock in a broo ,”
Shillington said. “The square comers
are becoming rounded.”

Shillington is survived by a sister,
Nina Catherine Kelsey of Springfield,
Mo., and several nieces and nephews.

In lieu of ﬂowers, the family re-
quests contributions be made to the
James Keith Shillington Scholarship
for a rising junior in chemistry.

 

PAGE 2

@112 Ifttng-tum lﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Goodbye Blake
and Marcus

, Washington andLeehas ﬁnally closed the book ontwo of the
saddest incidents to occurr on our campus in many years. The unique
Zsystem of conduct discipline that exists at W&L is designed to
}quickly indicate those in our community who cannot live up to its
Istandards. But Blake Comer and Marcus Miller indicate that it
{sometimes fails.
 Students and alumni who are familiar with Comer’s actions
1 in the moments after he hit and killed Ashley Scarborough with his
9 car in 1989 have every right to be angry with his decision to cover up
I his involvement in that accident. But that is possibly too easy a
E criticism to make, and one that does not cover the extent of the
tragedy. To the friends and family of Ashley Scarborough, the fact
2 that Comer ran from the scene of the accident can only stand as ameie
i footnote to the tragedy of Ashley’s death.
5 One can only pray to never ﬁnd oneself in such a horrible
; situation as Comer faced that night. But the bottom line is that things
; never should have gone that far. If it were not for the decisions that
‘ Comer made in the hours before he struck Ashley, the tragedy never
would have occurred.
j The decision that got Comer into trouble that night, and the
one that got him back into trouble with a DUI arrest in Georgia in
E May, is one that too many of students make too often. All of this
1 should seem obvious to someone who had served jail time for a
E manslaughter that he committed while driving drunk. But Comer‘s
3 return to Rockbridge Circuit Court last week proves that he has not
; leamed his lesson. ‘
1 Unfortunately, he is not alone. While DUI convictions have
: gone down among students in the. last few years, they remain
 remarkably high for a campus that has so recently faced such a
i tragedy. Blake admitted at his probation hearing Friday that even
: afterhis conviction, he did not believe he had a drinking problem and
 did not believe he was drunk on the night that he received the DUI in
1 Georgia.
 Too many W&L students who use alcohol irresponsibly
 have the same mentality. How many potential Blake Comers do we
1 have at this university?
E Comer said in his hearing that after being convicted of his
' DUI in Georgia, he volunteered the information to his parole ofﬁcer
. because he was “tired of hiding things.” Comer’ s notion of sympathy
3 was to make us believe that if he had struck a pedestrian that night in
Georgia, at least he would not have ﬂed the scene. While not
' criticizing the virtue of honesty, it is impossible to believe that Comer
: has reformed his most seriousproblem. When Comer ﬁnallyrealizes
’ that drinking irresponsibly kills moreipeople than telling lies about
it, that will at least be a start.
So far as Blake Comer has a problem that he has not
1 overcome, so does Marcus Miller. Miller should have realized after
Q his ﬁrst SCC conviction that violating a peer’s privacy, in any way,
E is unacceptable conduct at W&L. By cursing the university after his
: conduct hearing Tuesday night, Miller demonstrated that his stan-
L dards for acceptable behavior are not consistent with those of this
T university.
I The rules of conduct at W&L are deliberately lenient in order
3 to reﬂect conﬁdence in our student body. As W&L students, we pride
: ourselves on our ability to accept criticism and detennine acceptable
5 methods of self-conduct. But there are those within our student body
«: who are not up to this task. Students have a responsibility to seek help
~ for themselves and their peers if they cannot live up to the standards
‘ of the community. Miller and Comer have problems that they were
; unable to identify by themselves before it was too late.
| With this in mind, students owe it to themselves and their
: classmates to be critcal of one another and to accept criticism in
'; return This is the way a self-ajudicating community such as W&L
I operates. When students‘ such as Comer and Miller fail the system,
f they do not deserve our hatred, but neither have they earned our
f sympathy. So good luck, gentlemen, and please take your problems,
' e if you must, somewhere else.

one ‘ixtng-tum lﬂlri

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
fund. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions
of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

     
 

i”

Y.
 .
.9"

ROM. No»! or! ,

WW7 MOSES Event
31°57‘ MIWTE, Roan

I>4MAcvE To A

Winds of change rush through Senate

WASHINGTON— Last week, while that spoon-
ful of silliness called Perot was pondering whether to
make of himself a gift to the nation, two of

' Washington's grown-ups, going against the grain of
this political season, said something both radical and
sensible.

Sens. Pete Domenici,

OPINION

5T&tIcrvlte wife‘ U "7

HAVE ‘tn Answer;
T0 A Rocco.

The Ring-tum Phl, October 8, 19§3_2_-

WASHINGTON—- Between now
and Nov. 3, President George Bush and
Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton will meet
in televised debates. I have a quintet of
questions for each of them.

For President Bush-

I. The Recession. America suffers
from its mostenduring economic slow-
down since World War II. The layoffs
have been staggering and

Tough questions g
posed to candidate ,

 
     
    
      

States?

For Gov. Clinton-

1. Pandering. Name a single fe V
program you are willing to elim' l

2. Spending. Your list of cam .  .
promises is long. It includes nati -
health insurance, new highway
bridge construction, massive job . .
training, greateraccess to collegel : '

people expectmore.consumer
conﬁdence is dreadful. Before
talking about your plans for
the next four years, please tell

CHRISTOPHER MATTHE:

 
 
  

Tribune Media Services 

us what you personally be-
lieve caused this catastrophe.
Your vice president, Dan Quayle,
. blames the recession on the historic
budget bargain you struck with Con-
gress tow years ago. Is that the heart of
it? That you made a bad deal?

2. Deﬁcits. You now say, on the eve
of the election, that you regret the two-
year-old agreement that has both cut
federal spending and raised taxes. But
if you had rejected the ‘ 90 deal, how
would you have kept the federal deﬁ-
cit, which has zoomed to $400 billion,
from rising even further, perhaps caus-
ing a total U.S. ﬁnancial collapse?

3. Home Buying. Your new eco-
nomic program states that “more people
can afford to own a home today than at
any time since 1973.” Do you truly
believe that young American families
find buying a home easy in today’s
economy? Why, then, are so many of
these young couples forced to rent?
Why do we see so many “For Sale”
signs on our lawns? If it‘s so easy to
buy a home today, where are the buy-
ers?

4. Guns. You have made crime a big
issue in this election year just as you
made Willie Horton a winning issue in
1988. Why, given your concern over
rising crime, are you so unentliusiastic
aboutafive-daywaitingperiod on hand-
guns? Why do you refuse to support a
ban on U.S.- made assault riﬂes?

5. Vice Presidents. The prime con-
stitutional duty of a vice president is to
serve as the country's chief executive
should something happen to the Presi-
dent. Do you believe Dan Quayle would
make a good president of the United

 
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
     
    

a national apprenticeship prog ~ .
national service corps, a nation  , v«
lice corps and a boot camp for .
dealers. Where's the money It '
from? *4;

3. Taxes. You promised to r
taxes only on the top 2 perce t W
citizens. Is this a“read mylips’’t ‘ j .
commitment? Do you promise not ‘-
raise the taxes of 98 percent of the
American people? -

l

  
    
  
  
  

4. Defense Spending. Why do yot
the candidate of “fundamental change

    

y'- “"9;
want to spend 95 percent as much as 
President Bush on the Pentagon during M
the next ﬁve years? Why, to take on

example, does thecountryneed to buil - ’
a Seawolf nuclear submarine? 
mission can you imagine for this $* 4
billion Connecticut-built vehicle be- i,
yond collecting eight electoral votes f

5. Draft. You have asteel-trap min
You come to every issue loaded w‘ 
statistics, brimming wi-th informat ‘
consumed in the quest for more. In 1,
interviews, you have displayed a wo V
derful ability to recall colorful inci
dents from your youth in rural Arkar I
sas.

Your staff has even located an op ‘
ﬁlm clip of your student meeting wi  
Presidentlohn F. Kennedy. How, giv : 
this, can you expect the Ameri .»
people to believe you cannot reme
ber a one-to-one meeting with the h air:
of the Arkansas draft board, a meethjng
which decided whether you were s V '
to ﬁght and possibly die in the jung ‘
of Vietnam? ' «'4

©1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

    
  
  
   
   
    
    
  
 
  
  
    
    
   
   

percent.

The commission's plan is to achieve faster growth
by reversing the trends of both variables, using
mutually reinforcing deﬁcit reduction and tax re-
structuring strategies. The tax plan is breathtaking:
“Abolish the present tax
code and enact progressive

the New Mexico Repub-
lican, and Sam Nunn, the
Georgia Democrat, are
co-chairmen of The

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group

consumption-based in-
come taxation within two
years.”

The commission ex-

Strengthening American
commission whose re-
port. if implemented, would give America much
more change than Bill Clinton, the “candidate of
change.” has contemplated.

The commission, organized by the Center for
Strategic and International Studies and composed of
political, business, labor and academic leaders, of-
fers an intellectually——although perhaps not politi-
cally—-plausible way for the nation to escape its
crumbling, downward path toward a crabbed and
mean future.

The nation's core dilemma can be put succinctly.
For America’s welfare state, demography is destiny.
The population is aging and the elderly are the
disproportionate consumers of transfer payments,
particularly pensions and medical care. Spending on
entitlements is rising three to four times faster than
the economy is growing. But as brisk economic
growth becomes more crucial (to generate revenues
to which there are entitlement claims), two eco-
nomic variables—productivity and savings——are
varying ominously.

U.S. productivity-—output per worker—-is still
higherthanGermany’s orJapari’s, but its growthrate
has slowed while productivity has accelerated in
other major countries.

Our savings rate, now at an all-time low, fell from
9.8 percent of gross domestic product in the 1960s to
3.6 percent in the 1980s, while Japan and the Euro-
pean Community nations save at a rate over 10

plains: “A taxpayer would
take annual income, add
gifts and bequests as well as net borrowings, and
subtract all savings——basically net investments and
the net change in his or her bank balance. The
remainder would equal consumption, and the result-
ing amount minus exemptions would be taxed.”

Taxation would be on only that portion of per-
sonal income or corporate cash flow not directed to
savings, investment or capital formation. The tax
table could be as progressive "as policy-makers wish.
All forms of income——wages, interest, dividends-
would be treated the same. lnvestrnent outlays would
be expensed immediately, thereby eliminating com-
plex measurements of depreciation and amortiza-
tion.

By exempting savings and investment from taxa-
tion, the comrnission’s plan would eliminate the
perversity of the current tax system under which
income that is saved is taxed twice—when earned,
and when it generates interest. This incentive for
immediate consumption strengthens our culture's
general bias against deferral of gratiﬁcations. Corpo-
rate earriings are taxed at the corporate level; if
distributed as dividends, they are taxed as sharehold-
ers’ earnings; if corporations retain earnings and
stock values rise, stockholders are subject to capital
gains taxation.

The commission traces the pedigree of its idea
back three centuries to Thomas Hobbes: “It is fairer
to tax people on what they extract from the economy,

as roughly measured by their consumption, than to
tax them on what they produce for the economy, as
roughly measured by their income.” "

Unfortunately, the Democratic Party, which will
control congress for the foreseeable future and prob-
ably the executive branch for at least four years, is in
an intellectual rut. '

It is wedded to the primitive notion of fairness
expressed in Clinton’s banal and ideological desire to
increase taxation of high incomes. (A 20 percent
surtax on incomes over $l,0()0,000— Clinton talks
of 10 percent-—would raise just $16 billion over ﬁve
years. To ﬁnance today’s deﬁcit the government
borrows $16 billion every 16 days.)

On the spending side the commission calls for a
cap on entitlements other than Social Security. The
commission envisions $2.75 in spending cuts for
every $1 of revenue increases from the new system,
with cuts to be locked in law before the tax increases
are approved.

Trouble is, when Nunn, Domenici and a few
others recently proposed an entitlements cap, it took
the interest groups (the elderly, agriculture, labor,
veterans and scores more) just two hours to crank up
aﬂood of angry telegrams to Senate ofﬁces. This was
an example of what the National Jourrial’s Jonathan
Ranch calls “demosclerosis" and conservatives call
“reactionary liberalism”——defense of the status quo
by everyone with an entitlement. Demosclerosis would
be doubled in intensity when tax lawyers got into the
act, defending their clients’ favorite sugarplums ‘at
today’s tax code.

Still, the commission's report is evidence that the
nation's ﬁscal and economic problems (as distinct
from its cultural and behavioral problems) are prob-
lems not of intellectual mystery but of political will.
And to a nation rightly anxious about its trajectory,
the commission, quotingone of its members (Dwyaw
Andraes, CEO of Archer Daniels Midland) says: “If
you don’t change your direction, you'll wind up
where you're headed.”

@1992, Washington Post Writers Group

Kidnapping happens

To the Editor:

LETTERS

A friend of mine was abducted two
weeks ago in Columbia, S.C. She has
not been seen or heard from since. She
was a little older than most of you. . .
she graduated from Randolph-Macon
Women's College two years ago. She
was living in Columbia with her par-
ents while she studied for the GRE's.
The night she disappeared, she had
been out celebrating after the U2 con-
cert. At about 2:30 a.m., she was ready
to go home. Her friends were not, they
were still drinking at the bar. She de-
cided to go to a bar right around the
comer to see if any of her friends there
would give her a ride. The bouncer
remembers watching her leave and walk
around the comer in the direction of the
other bar. No one remembers seeing
her at that bar.

tween the Palms and Spanky’s, she

The Spectator fumbled facts

In a distance shorter than that be- To the Edi*°"= _ ,
In their latest pollution of the campus, the Spectator-babies over last year s

vanished. I just want everyone to be “Diana Phillips affair” at the law school with all the dishonesty we've come to
reminded that these things do happen, expect of them. Allow me to unmuddle the facts of tlus episode.

and they happen to people like you and
to friends like yours.

Lewis Hall's Federalist Society is a collection of nialadjusted pip-squeaks
whose lunatic-fringe fascism would be alarming were they not such a pitiable

Please watch our for each omen 1 bunch. Allpossessed of limited intellects but powerful prejudices, the Federalists
know that its easy to relax in Lexing- are young men and women so upset by the liberalizing influences of worldlinesg
ton, and the possibility of something and education that as their horizons broaden to about the diameter of apinhead
like this happening here is remote. they react by banding together to rabrdly reztfﬁrm every meag-splnted. Ignorant
However,Ithinktliatmyfriendthought assumption they were raised on. Last spring. they ran a First Amendment

the same thing.

experiment ” on their pin-up board at Lewis Hall. This involved posting a student

There should be some ﬂiers around article which aired some disfavoured views on society, and inviting anyone to
campus this week giving a description. attack it in any way. Within days, the board was several times ﬁlled up with hate-
If anyone was at me cohnnbia U2 ﬁlled derision of the article; whenever it was filled, the Federalists freshened the’
concen, or pa;-tying in cohnnbia that board up—- you know, put up new construction paper, etc.—and the free-for-

night, it would help if you contacted resumed-
the Columbia police. You might have
helpful information. Thank you.

Elizabeth Mason, ’94L

Enter Diana Phillips, '92L. Before calling her action a “hate crime.” the
Spectator merely tells us that Diana “took her magic markers to” the Federalists’
board. Ah!—- but the Spectator-babies don’t tell us what she did with those

U see LEITERS, pageﬁ

  

  

    

9

The Ring-tum Phl, October 8, 1 992

OPINION

Dr. Spos advises deviants of the world

Spos’ SPACE
‘ By Tom Hespos

Welcome to ‘Ask Dr. Spos,’ a new
advice column for the upwardly mo-
bile college student with alcohol de-
pendency, credit problems, social
kviances and the like. Direct all in-
quiries to: Ask Dr. Spos, The Ring-turn
Phi office, W&L University.

Dear Dr. Spos,

My best friend and I are very close.
We share what I consider to be the
Qrongest bond that two individuals on
this planet can share. Sometimes, I
don’t even have to verbalize my
thoughts. She can just sense what I am
thinking. That is how close we are to
each other. She gives me advice on
how to handle my boyfriend, helps me
with my homework and watches
“902 10" with me just about every damn
Wednesday night. My problem is that
my best friend is a head of lettuce. Is
this normal?

-Julie

hear Julie,

It sounds like you might not be
getting enough sex. Check the White
Book with regard to vegetable matter

assisting you with your homework.
We might be looking at a potential
H.V. here.

Dear Dr. Spos,

I’ve lost all respect for my girl-
friend. At the Widespread Panic con-
cert last week, she drank too much Jack
Daniels and got sick all over my new
s———tkickers. Later on in the night, we
were getting romantic in the bed of my
pickup truck and she insisted on burn-
ming some of my chaw. Within ten
seconds, she got sick again and ruined
a favorite ﬂannel shirt of mine that my
daddy gave me. Some of the spew
shorted out the big lights on my roll
bar. I was as mad as a wet hen, so I hog-
tied her to the front grille of my truck
and drove through downtown Buena
Vista at four in the morning, so I might
learn her a lesson. Later on, she con-
fessed that she was from New Jersey.
What should I do? .

-Jimmy Joe

Dear Jimmy Joe,

Sounds like you’re from Texas, and
therefore not getting enough sex.
Chronic vomiting is a problem that
several W&L boys like yourself have
to learn to deal with when taking out
those cute road-school girls. Being
from New Jersey, however, is one of

the worst social blunders imaginable,
ranking just below reading The Spec-
tator in offensiveness. Get yourself a
new filly, Jimmy Joe, and stop dispens-
ing chewing tobacco to northemers.

Dear Dr. Spos,

I feel so guilty. I went out to the
country yesterday, and there were a lot
of cows around. I suddenly started to
get a little... well... excited. Who am I
kidding? I got really, really excited.
Now, all I can think of at night is taking
one of those bovine beauties to bed
with me. Am I normal?

-Anonymous

Dear Anonymous,

Dr. Spos does not print anonymous
letters. Your name is J. William
Snodgrass, and you live in Gaines 291 .
Good luck getting a date, loser.

Dear Dr. Spos,

‘ Last week, I was in a local clothing
store. I had my checkbook with me,
even though I knew that I only had
$1.86 in my account. I saw this great
leather miniskirt and immediately fell
in love with it. To make a long story

short, I deliberatelywrote a check for .

the skirt, knowing that my account
didn’t have enough money in it to cover
the purchase. Am I a bad person?

-A Local Politician

Dear Mayor Derrick,

Although the mere thought of you
in a leather miniskirt is enough to make
me want to hurl, you are not a bad
person.

Writing bad checks is the norm for
politicians these days. It's almost like
your constituents are paying you back
for the measly salary they stiffed you
with. Have no fear. By the way, it
sounds like you might not be getting
enough sex. Go for it, big guy!

Dear Dr. Spos, .

Ifind you offensive, tasteless, and
worst of all, morally unrestrained. Since
you have been at W&L, you have done
nothing but offend the students and
faculty, and I resent it. I would be a
happy woman if you would just quit
school and stop writing for the Phi.

-Georgette

Dear Mom,

Thanks for the emotional support.
See you overThariksgiving break. Oh,
and by the way, Happy Birthday!

Confidential to J.C.H.: No, I don’t
think that girls are impressed‘ with the
fact that you edit a W&L news publica-
tion [sic].

Columbus: two sides of the same coin

g ten glory. ' . ~

MY VIEW .
By Richard Peltz, ’93

. On Monday, Oct. 12, people in the United States
will recognize Columbus Day, almost 500 years since
Columbus’ landing in the “New World.”

Someone will probably splash blood, or a red
substitute, on the Columbus statue in Washington.
There will be demonstrations decrying moral atroci-
ties committed by Columbus and the Spanish in the
New World.

In many cities there will be parades honoring
Columbus, the daring explorer responsible for unit-
ing humanity. Thousands will cheer on the parade in
Baltimore(; my cousin Tom will play Columbus and
ride on a ﬂoat). V

The extreme anti-Columbians will portray Co-
ﬁmbus as happening upon a New World by mere
c ance, murdering and raping the “Indians” by his
own hand, deceiving the Spanish crown as to his true,
selﬁsh andtwisted purposes, and dying in

 .. . ,  ,. gt yr-:,).)__,__;‘ =;,., .,

The extreme pro-Columbians will portray their

hero as the brilliant navigator, discovering. a New
World he knew would be there, trying to protect the
Qmocent Indians from filthy-minded sailors, always
with God and morality foremost in his mind, and
dying with less recognition than he deserved.

It's ironic that so many people attribute so many

motives and deeds to Columbus. In fact, no one ought
judge him hastily, if at all, as there is so little we really
know about him.
! Cristoforo Colombo was probably born in Genoa,
Italy in the autumn of 1451. He took to the sea in
commercial ventures at an early age and eventually
situated himself in Portugal.

We don’t know where Columbus got the idea to
sail West, but it was no brilliant deduction. The
roundness of the world was all the talk in Portugal,
Ind others surely considered reaching Asia across the

ill-begot-
‘  »3.?;,siire:ihantlie sailors, so the : . ,.  

unexplored Ocean Sea. .

Columbus miscalculated the size of the earth and
thought China would be a short voyage west. Re-
jected in Portugal, he petitioned the Spanish crown in

1486 to fund the venture. In 1492, the crown agreed,
along with a promise of status and profit if he
succeeded. The deal didn’t
cost much, initially; it's not
true that the queen pawned

ing Eden and might have a role in rebuilding Jerusa-
lem. He was, however, very ill and going blind; what
effect that might have had on his mind we don’t
know.

Columbus died in Spain in 1504, never having
received all that the crown had promised. A final
irony to the Columbian
mysteries, we do not
even know for certain

her jewels to make the voy-
age possible.

About a month after the
Nifia, Pinta and Santa
Mari’a’s departure in fall
1492, shipboard tension
surely ran high. But near-
mutiny might go too far.
The long—held view that
Columbus rriisinformed the
sailors as to how much dis-
tance they covered might

notbetrue; he used adiffer- encounter.

We each must recognize and
come to terms with the past in
our own way. Some of us might
choose to mourn the countless
deaths brought on by the
encounter of 1492, and some of
us might choose to celebrate
the world which grew out of the

where Columbus ’ bones
lie today.

One more thing we
do know for certain,
however: Columbus
was human. Thus by
definition, he was not
perfect. He had emo-
tions, biases, ﬂaws and
less-than-ideal motiva-
tions. He was a product
of his times and society.

Considering his hu-

ent, shorter nautical mea-

double reports in the log could come from simple
numeric conversion. . V 1-,;

Columbus’ expedition landed in today’s Carib-
bean; we don’t know where. We also don’t know if
Columbus ever knew he had landed in a New World,
despite three subsequent voyages. His writings refer
often to China.

We know little of Columbus’ treatment of the
-Indians. He said he forbade sailors to make unfair
trade with the natives. He said he believed they could
easily be converted to Christianity, seeming to have
no native religion. .

He always questioned them as to the whereabouts
of gold. But in later writings he complained that gold
had become the sole, misguiding purpose of other
explorers, to the exclusion of religion.

In fact, his later writings take a decidedly reli-
gious turn, proposing that he was close to discover-

:r   it :1: 9%  "ta? . .. ,
his actions. But he should be regarded, by anti- and :

manity, Columbus may
 1+.-if-’ -»..gbe§§ield.aceotintab1e—for
prn-Columbians alike, asone.rnan,'not a deity or the
embodiment of a society. « - 1 1

Columbus Day, moreover, should be regarded as
the symbolic recognition of an era, not a time to pay
reverence to Columbus the man. Granted, the era
when Columbus lived was not a time when only good
things happened. Nor was it a time when evil pre-
vailed. It was a time when humanity's soul grew. It
is a part of our history, and of us, which we cannot
erase. .. _

We each must recognize and come to terms with
the past in our own way. Some of us might choose to
mourn the countless deaths brought on by the en-
counter of 1492, and some of us might choose to
celebrate the world which grew out of the encounter.
But we must respect each other’ s means of accepting
what occurred, for it cannot be taken back.

LETTERS

El LETTERS from page 2

markers, do they? How interesting.
Diana Phillips covered the Federal-
ists’ newly-freshened board with ﬂow-
ers, hearts, rainbows, lines of peace-
on—earth-goodwill-toward—all-type po-
‘try, and other such sunny stuff. Magic

markers and crayons were used, as was
that other terrorist technique learnt in
kindergarten, cutting and pasting. Al-
though no announcement that the “First
Amendment experiment” was over had
been made (not surprisingly, since only
upon Ms. Phillips’ intervention did the
Federalists decide they weren’t having

fun anymore), its sponsors now sent up
a chorus of indignant squealing so shrill
that, just to make them shut up, a be-
mused SCC was finally persuaded to
reprimand the malevolent ﬂower-
paster. All in all, a telling demonstra-
tion of right-wing disdain for the Bill
of Rights.

Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

9

Jessica Wolf, ‘96, Baltimore, Md.
—— “Steve Johnson on a platter.”

Brent Vincent, ‘94, Palatine, Ill. —
— “Beaver.”

This is what the Spectator calls a
vicious “hate crime.” Flowers and po-
etry. Kinda tells you something about

how the Spectator-babies see the world,
don’t it? -

As

usual,

Niall MacKenzie, ’93.

TALKBACK

 

John Conkling, ‘93, Chestertown,
Md. —— “Steamed crabs and corn on
the cob.”

 

 

Courtney Tucker, ‘96, Roanoke, Va.

— “Something that is actually edible.”

 

Ariel

Ariel, the literary magazine of
Washington and Lee, is now ac-
cepting submissions of poetry, ﬂe-
tion, photography, and art. Sub-
missions should be turned into Carol
Calkins‘ office in the University
Center. .

CD&P

Career Development and place-
ment events this week: Resume
and cover letter workshop on Tues-
day, Oct. 13 from 4-5p.m. (Univer-
sity Center, Rm.l09), Resume Cri-
tiques all day Wednesday, Oct. 14
in the Career Development and
Placement ofﬁce. No appointments
necessary. Resume Drop Deadline
11 for November Companies is
Thursday, Oct. 15 at 4p.m.

Span I s h

Dr. Alvaro Felix Bolanos, assis-
tant professor of Spanish at Tulane
Univ ., will present ‘From the Mar-
gins of the Spanish Empire and
History: Indians in Colonial Span-
ish America‘ on Monday, Oct. 12 at
7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

The lecture is the kickoff of the '

Romance Language Department
Colloquium.

VMI-W&L

Needed. Men and Women in-
terested in organizing a VMI—W&L
student organization. Call Jason at
464-6259.

Women’s Forum

There will be a meeting of
Women’s Forum this Sunday
evening at 6 pm. in the Women’s
Center in the basement of the Uni-
.versity Center. Everyone is wel-
come.

SPJ

Anyone interested in joinin the

. . Washington and Lee Chapter of the
1, Society of Professional Journalists,
‘ ‘inany class,ishould attend the meet-

ing tonight, in the Reid Hall library,
at 7:30 p.m.

Breakfast

U.S. Senator John Warner, ‘49,
will host a breakfast next Thurs-
day, Oct. 15, to honor Congres-
sional candidate Bob Goodlatte.
Goodlatte, a 1977 graduate of W&L
Law School, is the Sixth District
Republican candidateforCongress.
The Sixth District, which includes
Lexington, Buena Vista, and
Rockbridge County, is currently
represented by Democrat Jim Olin
who is not seeking reelection. The
breakfast will be in Chandler Hall
at Southern Seminary. Invitations
and further infomiation can be at-
tained at the Republican Headquar-
ters at the comer of Main & Preston
Streetss., phone 464-8330, or by
phoning Professor Dean at 463-
3964.

‘College Dems

There will be a College ‘Demo-
crats meeting this Sunday, Oct. 11
at 7 p.m. in the University Center
room 109. For more information
call Cottie Miles at 464-6133.

Film Society

There will be an organizational
meeting of the W&L ﬁlm society on
Thursday, Oct. 8 at 7 p.m. in the
Commerce School room 221. All
who wish to be involved with the
Film Society this year should at-
tend. New members are especially
invited.

TheW&Lfilmsocietyis pleased
to announce its second presentation
of the season, Camille Claudel
(France, 1989), directed by Bnmo
Nuytten. Showings will be at
8:05p.m. on Friday, Oct. 9 and Sat-
urday, Oct. 10 in the new Trouba-
dour Cinema, at the comer of Main
and Henry Sts. Admission is free.
Camille Claudel is in French, with
English subtitles. All are encour-
aged to attend.

Freshman EC

Freshman class petitions for
President, Vice President and E.C.
Rep can be picked up in Carol
Calkins" office in the University
Center. They must be turned in by
5 p.m. Oct. 12.

9
Who s Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate
amember of the current undergradu-
ate senior class for selection to
Who’s Who among Students in
American Universities and Colleges
may do so by submitting the name
and qualifications of that student to
David L. Howison, Dean of Stir-
dents, in Payne Hall 6 by Oct. 9,
1992.

Speaker

Former Congressman Bill
Frenzel (R-Minn.) will speak Mon-
day, Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. in the C-
School, rm.327 about Election '92
Congressional and’ Presidentiali‘
prospects. " ' ‘

LSAT

KaplanLSATPrepCourse-This
course preparing for the Dec. 5
LSAT will begin on Tuesday, Oct.
20 at 6 p.m. in the C-School 221.
Classes meet regularly on Sundays
and Tuesdays 6-10 p.m. For infor-

8b‘lll8llt §§l8‘PF2lci.1llieQi‘i5ffil%‘?""1'

Seniors

All seniors are reminded to reg-
ister with the Career Development
and Placement Office. To register,
a senior needs to obtain a placement
packet and complete the appropri-
ate forrns and a resume. Once reg-
istered, the senior will receive Col-
lege Placement Council Annuals and
can participate in job fairs and cam-
pus recruitment. Packets and help
available at the CD&P ofﬁce.

What would you like to see served in Evans Dining Hall?

  

I Tim Thompson, ‘93, Fort
Worth, Texas — “The same crap
I had to eat freshman year.”

‘ 96,
Murfreesboro, Tenn. -—— ‘flolin
Wilson with an apple in his niou .”

Garrett Bouldin,

 

Students or Organizations
promote our Florida Spring  '
packages. Earn  and AUD|o . vjpgo 
FREE trips. Organize Small or DEMON SONY
Large groups. Call Campus ADCOM ALPINE
Marketing. 800-423-5264 T°5“'3A MARANTZ
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ KEF cwo
F \ BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA

K ______ __J

PAGE 4

Idon’t get along withmyroom-

Asx DR. Wormr
mate. It is only the fourth week
of the term and I'm already

By Dr. James Worth
0
  .
afraid we'll end up killing each
other before the year is over. Lots of little
things drive me up the wall, but the biggest
problem is that she's extremely inconsider-
ate. What should I do? Talking doesn't

seem to be an option because she is stub-
born and closed-minded. How can I ap-

proach her?
A °
' roommate are indeed well on
the way to hating one another
and no doubt making one another miser-
able in the process. It could be a very long
year.
What you need to count on is that she,
too, is unhappy with the situation and real-
izes that the alternative to eight months of

From the tone of your ques-
tion I can tell that you and your

Roommate from hell!

Student deals with strained living conditions

The point is to ﬁnd some way to get her
attention and also at least momentarily
defuse the anger a little bit.

The next step after getting her attention
is to affirm her dignity.

Let her know that there are things about
her you respect.

Tell her that you are sure she has been
as unhappy with how things have been
going as you are.

Explain that blaming and criticizing
won’t help, but that with cooperation and
communication you can have a decent
year together.

Then tell her you want to hear her
grievances. This will be difﬁcult. But you
need to listen quietly and patiently to all
the things that annoy her about you, and
you need to do this without defending
yourself.

On the contrary, when she is ﬁnished
repeat every allegation back to her and
make sure you heard her correctly.

If you’ve made it this far you can feel
pretty good about yourself.

You’ve taken some risks. But if she’s
still with you that’s a very good sign she

proach that will

hit of good will,

domestic hell is to does wantareso-
form some sort of lutign. ' d
truce, - - -. ou nee a
The trick is H9pefu]]y’ with tact’ 'm?gl' win-win com-
finding an ap- nationandperhapsevenalittle promise, one

some Specific where each of

get her attention, . youfeels youare
enable her to save Changes 1n how 3'01! relate to better off than
face. and yield to one another can be agreed befI<_>Ire- f H
compromises that - ope u y.
both of you can upon and Implemented‘ with tact, imagi-
live with.

I will make
several assumptions: (1) If I were to hear
her side of the story she would probably
consider you narrow-minded, tedious, and
very difﬁcult to live with. (2) She, too, has
given up on talking it out because she either
is too angry or ﬁgures it won’t do any good
(or both). (3) For every grievance you have
she has one, too, which she feels proves that
you are the one to blame, not her.
Inother words, Ithink it is fairly
likely that she views you with

How can you get her attention
without infuriating her further?

I wonder if there’s something you can
do, something she is clearly not expecting,
which would please her. Perhaps it would
be cleaning the bathroom or kitchen, ﬁxing
a meal she enjoys, buying her a quart of her
favorite ice cream, or taking her out to
lunch.

 

nation and per-
haps even a little
bit of good will, some specific changes in
how you relate to one another can be
agreed upon and implemented.
Write them down.Each sign them if
you can.
Agree to meet again and discuss what is
or is not working.
Above all, avoid criticism, judgment
and hostility.
You must move from a polar-
ized position to becoming task-

as much suspicion, irritation, _ oriented.

and pessimism as you view Ifall else fails, youmay
her. try enlisting the help of a

Any attempt to point third party.

out to her the many faults A dorm counselor
she has, the inconsider- wouldbewillingto help,
ation she displays, the un- even if you aren't a
reasonableness of her be-  freshman. They have
lmvior, or“ any other -way ~ «  - been trained in conflict, - — - .
she has failed you will make 7‘ resolution. I __.I

matters worse!’ ' T Another option would be

for the two of you to see me or

Dean Schroer-Lamont. We have

considerable experience working with
roommate problems. ,

By all means show her this article.
What I'm saying to you and her is to move
past blaming or retaliating and arrive at
problem-solving. The alternative is for
each of you to have a roommate from hell.

  

Perdigon reig

By Joyce BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

All spectators eagerly watched as senior
Tricia Perdigon took her place at center ﬁeld as
W&L’s Homecoming queen.

“I couldn’t believe it,” Perdigon said. “I was
honored that they picked me.”

Perdigon, the president of Chi Omega, rep-
resented her sorority in the race for queen.

“We were very proud that the representative
of Chi-O can also represent W&L,” Vice Presi-
dent of Chi Omega senior Kim Murtha said.

The sorority had a stellar weekend with
senior Heather Aussiker also part of the court
and their ﬂoat winning third place.

Besides Perdigon’s involvement in her so-
rority, she is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa and the medical honor
society Alpha Upsilon Delta. ~

Perdigon plans on continuing her study of
biology in medical school.

She is looking into Vanderbilt University,
University of Virginia and Emory College as
possible places to continue her studies.

“I want to get into a ﬁeld of medicine that
involves a lot of interaction with people,” she
said.

The deciding factor of the judge’s selection
was the interview.

 

Perdigon, escorted by Cary Potts, accepts the honor of Homecoming queen.

“It was not like I was being grilled,”Perdigon
said. “It was very conversational.”
She said the judges asked her about her
future plans in medicine.
Questions also ran the gamut from politics
to religion.

ns as queen

 
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
   

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Plié

Perdigon said all the Homecoming queen
candidates had a good chance of winning.

“They were all well-rounded individuals,”
she said. “Whoever got it would be honored.
It’s one of the best courts I’ve seen in four
years.” ‘

Students visit land of rubles and vodka ,

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Staff Writer

Despite outdated living conditions, harass-
ment by black marketeers and public bathing, a
trip to Russia was the experience of a lifetime
for eight W&L students.

Last spring students from W&L’s Russian.
department boarded a plane in New York City
en route to St. Petersburg, previously Leningrad,
to participate in the first six-week exchange
program in Russia offered by the university.

“It was the best spring term by far,” senior
Chris Penders said. “You’ll probably only get
to do it once, so it’s worth going over there.”

The students attended three classes a day,
ﬁve days a week at the Herzen Pedagogical
University, and stayed in the university's dorms
which they said were in poor condition.

Light bulbs were scarce, a warm shower was
a rarity, and the students had to bring toilet
paper from the United States.

But, the students didn’t complain too much,
considering the relatively low cost of the trip:
$2,500for1rarrsportation, tuition, a dorm room
and miscellaneous expenses.

Financial aid for the trip was offered and
will be offered again this spring for students
already receiving aid from W&L.

Also, because, the U.S. dollar is worth much
more than the ruble, the students were able to
eat well, unlike most Russians.

“Money was not a problem in Russia. Our
currency was so much stronger,” Penders said.

However, Penders said the food didn’t meet
American standards.

“A salad over there was a plate of cucum-

bers,” Penders said. The students could not
drink the water either.

On arrival, some of the students said the
impersonal Russian guards intimidated them,
and the dismal weather was unimpressive.

“The first impression is that it’s completely
drab. The people looked absolutely miserable,”
junior Bryant Pless said.

During the second day of their stay, the
students met with the head of the university and
took tests of their
Russian profi-
ciency.

The students
then split into
groups of four for
the remainder of
the six weeks and
attended classes
such as news read-
ing, Russian gram-
mar and conversa-
tion, television
watching and mu-
sical phonics.

By the end of
the trip, the students said they had noticed a
deﬁnite language improvement among them-
selves.

When the students were not attending classes,
they were seeing the sights in St. Petersburg,
such as the Peter Paul fortress, or touring the
Kremlin, Gorky Park and a former KGB build-
ing in Moscow.

Originally, the visit to Moscow was not part
of the scheduled events during the trip, but the
students were able to get $5 tickets on Aeroﬂot,
the only Russian airline.

Penders

 

Pless said they got the tickets by bribing the
ticket saleswoman.

Although the price of airline tickets seemed
inexpensive to them, it was a quarter of a
Russians monthly wages, and the ﬂight itself
was rather unpleasant experience.

“I pulled down the tray table to write sort
postcards, and there was about ﬁve years of
ﬁlth on it,” Penders said.

On the streets, black marketers and children
seeking American goods barraged the students.
Pless said the students were easy targets.

“You couldn ’t walk down the street 50 yards
without someone asking you to buy a watchi’
he said.

However, the students took advantage of
their friendships with the black marketers and
learned some tricks to exchanging currency
and buying goods on the street.

The group was also able to befriend Ameri-
cans in Russia.

“We met a lot of Americans on the street.
You know who the Americans are because
they’re clean,” senior Laura Howard said.

The group ran into some problems with

security."

Twice, someone broke into the six male
students’ room and stole a camera, blazer any
razors, among other items.

Overall, the trip allowed the students to
become totally immersed in Russian society
and culture.

They waited in long lines for food as most
Russians do every day, and the group even went
to a public bath for 15 cents.

“It wasn '1 [the baths] too bad if you didnﬁ
mind a bunch of old naked men sitting around
drinking beer,” Penders said.

4000+ eyes 
could be reading |

your ad I
in this space.

- we

‘ SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

' BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

‘ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' lN—STORE SERVICE CENTER

’ MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

| Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

SERVICE MOST BRANDS

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond

Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

130 S. Main St.

 

Back - Giant

463-7969

VARNER 8: POLE

For your extra pieces

Furniture Dealers
of furniture»

463-2742

115 S. Main St., Lexigyn

 

Having the goblins and goulies over?
Let us custom design Halloween Invitations!
ALSO Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

3'. PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX

125 W. NELSON ST. - LEXINCTI‘ ON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

#: 463-6918 Q

     

Send your letters to the editor

The Ring-tum

University Center room 208.

  

to
Phi,

Make or Diﬁerence...

TEACH   l

IES can make a difference as you begin your teaching career. We will provide you with A I I
information about teaching in a private school, honest assessment of your competitiveness,

and recommendations about your candidacy.

WE WILL BE VISIT WASHINGTON & LEE

UNIVERSITY:

OCTOBER 28- INFORMATION SESSION

0
OCTOBER 29- INTERVIEWS

IES assists private schools in locating talented teachers. Last year we helped over 400 college seniors ,

tackle the challenges of a teaching job search. As the only nonprofit teacher placement agency, we are

committed to independent schools and teachers. No application or placement fees charged to college seniors.

Contact your Career Office for more infomtation and an interview appointment. If you have any questions,

please telephone Kirk Russell or Brooke Burns at (800) 257-5102. '

« I

..

INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES 0 353 NASSAU ST. 0 PRINCETON, NJ 08540 0 (800) 257-5102

  

The Ring-tum Phl, October 8; 1992

   

- Ring-‘tum Phl, October 8, 1992

I

I" - er 0 unselors

.tudents helping students co

By Farm TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

In

Do you ever feel like you need to

. k?

Washington and Lee has 28 stu-
c ents trained to lend a sympathetic car.

“No expert-. ‘ICC is necessary to be-
- me a peer counselor,” junior head
cougselor Mary Goetz said. “The big-
gest factor is that you must be ap-
proachable. A peer counselor has to be
ready and open. They are people who
listen.”

Worth initiated the peer counseling
program ﬁve years ago in response to

o 's ncem that students were reluc-
- t to search for professional help
from faculty and staff members.

“I felt many students were uncom-
fortable discus sing awkward situations
such as substance abuse and sexual
behavior, ” Worth said.

His solution was to provide peer
counselors who were trained in listen-
ing skills, problem solving and making
referrals to professional counselors.
Many counselors say they have al-
ways been a sounding board for their
friends.

“I have always enjoyed talking to
frieﬁds and helping people,” said sopho-
more peer counselor Kris Fegenbush.
“I was the shoulder to cry on all my
life. I wanted to be a peer counselor so
I could get some training to really help
people I knew and even those I didn’t
know, " said Goetz.

R11 peer counselors must undergo
intensive and continual training.

“We have atwo- day training period
during an early September weekend.
After this program, counselors attend
monthly Sunday afternoon meetings.”
University Psychologist James Worth
saib.

Attendance is also encouraged at all
social and mental health presentations

that come to campus, he said.

A The chief responsibility of a peer
counselor is to listen to a student’s
conﬂict and assist hint in coming to a
coitlusiori on his own.

Counselors have been instructed not
to offer advice.

  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

“You never lose control of your

Peer counselors partlclpate In a role-playing sesslon in Fairfax Lounge.

destiny with the peer counselor pro-
gram. They will not take a moral
position. They are not a Dear Abby
outlet, nor are they advice givers. They
are listeners that will help you solve
your own problems, ” Worth said.

The counselor will then arrange a
meeting.

Worth encourages students to use
the program and is willing to anony-
mously match students with peer coun-
selors. «

There are sev- “ You can call
eral ways to reach a counselor for a
a peer counselor. W ““““—"‘j—*‘-T little problem,

A student can orth encourages stu- like how to re-
ea“ the number dents to use the program SP°“" in “ ‘PC’

under the peer
counse1or’s pic-
ture which are on

and is willing to anony-
mously match students

cific social situa-
tion, to bigger is-
sues, like the con-

posters that were - sequences of try-
postegthis week with peer counselors. gpafcghmmgug,
aroun campus. 0 sai .
Students can Peer counsel-
also walk up to a ors agree that

counselor in person.

Carol Calkins or Health Services
will anonymously schedule an appoint-
ment with the counselor of the student’s
choice.

l

maintaining objectiveness is the most
difficult aspect of their job.

“Knowing you can’t give advice
and not interjecting your personal feel-
ings is hard,” said Fegenbush.

rl)E/m\i/7lEQERS [NUEEYLLE “

' N5

. TEE:

Replacements 4
. Repairs
Adjustments
Contacts
Exams Arranged -

 

   
  
 
  

Q)£ﬂl’l/IEK5 .’r7lLL£f)’Q3‘Z15I9\[£55 5‘E9{_’l/I C175 _
no 203 9\[. {Main Street - 463-9.455

Word Processing - Typing
Resumes - Cover Letters - Envelopes
" , Print From Your Disk I
Newsletters - Transcription

Binding - Fax - UPS

    
 
  

Dr.’ 'll'acy Freeman
Optometrist

Eye Examinations - By Appt.
464-1888 or 463-7440

463-7440

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

 

FEATURES

 

 

 

e ACROSS
1 Yodelers place
5 Drift
10 Serene
‘ , .w 0 I t h 14 Ship builder
pointed out that 15 pmgeis
peercounselors 16 B_uftaIo‘s lake
are not trained 133 3'3" °' bag
forprofessional 19 Cozy home
counselmg and 20 Place for
are not replace- Veellng ares
ments for gen- 22 3:“: °‘ 9'
efal S13-fﬂ _ 24 Sealarer
Peer (man. 25 Gentleman
selors can see a 53 ‘SR9
studentnomore 32 scale
than threetimes 36 Close
before referrals 3; Exam in
aremadetopro- 40 Ems p
fessionals. 41 — culpa
Peer coun- 42 P‘UPnDe‘ 0“ 3
selors have 44 gggaen,
Silifieéiipiiéil  
' ' ' as I
"°“t°1‘S‘°“m3 48 Beatty ol films 8 Arouse Last week's answers:
10 $mdCmS- 50 Atmosphere: 9 Slaves of yore
“They go to pref. 10 Telephone
Heanhsewices 22-... .. s:.°:::i9e
dell)! to be of Zulu 12 |‘.em—by—:ten'l
service to any 59 Came to earth series
smdemsstaying 60 Entice l3 Apportlon
- - 62 — it (amen) 21 Levy
mthemﬁrmafy‘ 63 Man or Wight 23 Suspires
They are will- 64 Cancel 26 "What's in -4"
ing to do any- 65 Thought 27 Katmandu land
thing from just 66 Ndmex. resort   lmllgrgk
Sitting d°w“ 67 Hot rod group
and talking for 68 Dickens girl 30 Heated contest
awhile ‘° Pi°“' DOWN 3% csiifiiiﬂites
mg, up 32 we mean} cone from Sweet 1 Hill colonists 34 Expend
Things, Worth said. 2 Appear in 35 Leaders of old
Peer counselors have also become threatening 37 Outlaw _t 49. P I 54 Anmoxms
involved with °d“°‘“i°,“a1 efforts 3 lgnmy snack  ll-?lrilr‘lendg | em 50 L2?" 55 Church part
around campus and special duty as- 4 protect 43 Fires up 51 Fisherman's 56 Cipher
signments, suchas accompanying stu- Z Erienéiless one 44  love - 52 Eeend f t 2; zggfaéygrlfg,
- ‘ - I e IO ess o no e -
ggnstjiflo the hospital for AIDS testing’ 7 Abgss 47 That girl 53 Storage shed 61 Fellow
The peer counselors agree that the
program is a worthwhile and reward- a
ing experience. '
.1 Wm de,.m,,e,y come mg 3 WLU R weekday radio schedule
, . .
P°°‘°9““S,?‘°'- “W? 5 “° ‘l“°S“°“ m Morning Mag (Rock) — Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.
my mind Goetz said
,, , ' ' , . Jazz - Monda , 9 a.m.—1la.m.; Monda -Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-l 1 :30 a.m.
It sa eat ro ram Imsenousl y - y-
th. . go tp 3 . ' d 3’ AM Overture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.
mklllga “ be”. mmg.a. orm °°‘.m' Inspirational — Thursday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.; Monday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.
selor in the future in addition to being - - -
,, . Public Affairs —Monda tlirou h Frida , 11 a.m.-11:30 am.
1 Y 8 Y
a [I,’..°I°.1§] cmmse °" fegenbush .sa3d' Country - Monday through Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
6 Pee’ °°““se °.” 3°‘ "ammg Dance/Rap - Tuesday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
out of this ro am which hel s them -
d dph 3’ 1 up m Rock - Wednesday through Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.
un “Sta: bleenmf “';S:shw°.daS,,‘i.h' Breakthrough Rock - Monday through Friday, 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
6.“ “inc . Mr’ ° .53’ ' ° Classical Showcase - Monday through Thursday, 6p.m.-9 p.m.
listenm skills the learn will hel them - -
. . 3 . y . P. ,, Third Ear - Monday through Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.
in their future jObS and relationships.

  SENIORS

Do you want to work in any of thse cities?

Washington Philadelphia
New Y0Tk San Francisco
Chicago
The Selective Liberal Arts Consortium (SLAC) .‘ V
JOB FAIRS are for you,  
with impressive numbers of good companies: , I‘ " §l0$9T_th0"
~ ~ you think!

Chicago — January 4 (M) - 21 organizations
Washington - January 5 (T) - 23 organizations
New York - January 6-7 (W-Th) - 31 organizations
San Francisco - January 11 (M) - 8 organizations
Philadelphia - January 13 (W) - 12 organizations

DEADLINE: FRIDAY, OCT. 23 RESUMES DUE

To review company descriptions and learn
about submitting resumes, come to the
Career Development and Placement Office

Halloween
Cards

Hand-dipped
Chocolates

  

Pottery Pumpkin
Candleholders

117 W. Nelson St.

 

   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY THEATRE
LENFEST CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

THE KELLER THEATRE

BOX OFFICE 463-8000

W 8: L Stud nts Facul and Staff
Washin ton 8: Lee Universitv

NAME

 

ADDRESS

 

W,   THE IMAGINARY INVALID

A HILARIOUS COMEDY BY MOLIERE

TAKE 1 (ONE) PERFORMANCE:
Nightly at 8 PM on October 22, 24, 26 & 27

Daily at 2 PM on October 24 &: 25

REFILL 5 TIMES

1)r. /‘?l[ Garden

DISPENSE A's WRITTEN

TICKETS AVAILABLE NOW!
VOLUNTARY FORMULARY PERMITTED

     
     
    
     
      

     
  

‘ 1 ‘J-’-—’-“44-re‘ \ ,. u...-a./-.a...~.»m...o.n...'.~. -L
' _ -_ . _ _ ‘____ .__ _ __ ___ ’_,« .——...-.-._._...._...—_—..-i...—...~.-.w........_-...-.....- - - -- _---— — - .. . - -— - ..-- - gym.-— ..-mu.-- ....~.,.-9-..------—.-.."----..-q--’_..---o..-.....-.-.—-.-a.:..—¢..——._ -——

...-._ ..-....-_--_ _ As .._.-_¢_...~.¢4..-.9

 

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 8, 19 '

NEWS

T.J. Daly, '92, cavorts with the clowns during Saturday's speedy Homecoming parade.

Parade ‘went kind of fast’

By Toivi HESPOS
Phi Contributing Writer

If W&L students were asked to describe Saturday's
Homecoming parade, most would do it in three words: short
but sweet.

“It went kind of fast. A couple of people we invited chose
not to participate,” said Tom Hooper, president of Kathekon,
the organization that sponsored the parade along with the
Alumni Office.

W&L’s ﬁrst Homecoming parade in over 20 years ended

I when Lambda Chi AIpha’s ﬂoat, the last one in the parade,

crossed in front of the grandstand 28 minutes after the
parade started. According to Hooper, the impact of the
parade was not blunted by its short duration.

“[The parade] left everyone in good spirits,” said Hooper,
“Hopefully it will be that much better next year.”

Kappa Kappa Gamma won this year’s award for best
ﬂoat. Kappa’s ﬂoat depicted a boxing match between a
Confederate general and Randolph-Macon’s yellowjacket
mascot, complete with a ring announcer to excite the crowd.

The ﬂoats were judged on spirit, originality and design

by a four—member committee consisting of W&L professors
Lamar Cecil, Thomas Nye, John Wielgus and Dean Laurent
Boetsch.

Kappa President Walton Eagan said a 15-member com-
mittee headed by junior Mary Adickes builtthe ﬂoat in three
days.
Eagan said building the ﬂoat was “a lot of fun. We ’re
excited about winning.”

Floats this year included Southern Comfort and JubiLee
singing the W&L Swing, Live Drive dragging beer cans
behind their trademark vans and Phi Delta Theta in a replica
of a Viking Longship.

The noise level on the street increased when Lexington’s
Auto Towing and Repair ﬂoat passed by. The ﬂoat con-
sisted of one of the company’s trucks towing W&L security
officer Thomas “Baner” Bane’s familiar blue pickup truck.

Other parade participants included.the Lylbum Downing
Middle School Marching Band, the Rockbridge County
High School Marching Band and the Rockbridge County,
Natural Bridge and Lexington fire departments.

Hooper said he hopes the Homecoming Parade will
become an annual tradition.

“We had a good turnout,” he said. “It went real well.”

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

The founder of the W&L Gay and
Lesbian Alliance says he was attacked
Saturday in what he calls an incident of
“gaybashing.”

Sean Bugg, '89, had a warrant is-
sued against Charles T. Gay for assault
and battery after a fight Saturday at the
Sigma Nu house. .

“Charles Gay shoved me, yelled
‘you're not welcome here,’ then
punched me in the face,” Bugg told
Lexington Magistrate Charlene Worley
early Sunday morning. The warrant
was served on Gay Sunday at about 4
a.m.

Gay, '89, said Tuesday he did not
wish to comment on the incident.

Bugg said Tuesday that he went to
Sigma Nu on Saturday to see what the
house looked like after being reno-
vated. Bugg and Gay are both Sigma
Nu alumni.

Bugg said he was at a band party in
the basement when Gay “came out of
the crowd” at him.

Bugg said Gay yelled at him, called
him homosexual, shoved him twice
and hit him in the left side of his face.

Sigma Nu member Heath Dixon,
who was the sober officer Saturday,
said he did not see the beginning of the
ﬁght. He said the first thing he saw was

 
 
 

 

Bugg and Gay grappling with each
other.

“One person was pulling Sean away
and two were pulling Charlie,” Dixon
said. “Charlie seemed like he was ﬁn-
ished. Sean was trying to break loose
and at one point he did, and kicked
Charlie in the hea ."

Dixon said
Gay left after
the fight and
that Bugg was
asked repeat-
edly to leave the
partybut would
not.

- “ I B u g g I
kept saying, ‘I
can be here if I
want. I’m a
member in
good standing.
If he comes back here, I'll rip his head
off,”’ Dixon said.

“I lost my temper,” Bugg said. “I
nonnally don’t like violence. But I
don't like being hit, especially if I’m
being hit because I’m gay.” _

Dixon said that when he asked Gay
and Bugg to leave he did not know who
either of them were or if they were
Sigma Nu members.

Dixon said that when Bugg was
discovered to be homosexual his se-
nior year, he was asked to dissociate
himself from the chapter.

W&L GALA founder gets in fight

“From whatlunderstand, some guys
were uncomfortable with the fact that
he was homosexual, particularly be-
cause he had kept it a secret,” Dixon
said. I I

Bugg said he was forcedto leave the
house, but was never formally taken
off the rolls.

“I was threatened and told to leave
but I am still a member,” Bugg said.

Some Sigma Nu members believe
Bugg went to the house Saturday night
looking for a fight.

“He knew there were a bunch of
alumni who did not want him there,”
Sigma Nu president Mark VanDuesen
said. “He came down there, in my
opinion, to provoke an incident.”

“He was just trying to start trouble,”
Dixon said. “He knew other alumni
were there. He was looking to start a
ﬁght.”

Bugg refutes such charges.

“That’s ridiculous,” Bugg said. “I
was curious about the house. I was
getting ready to leave when [Gay] hit
me.”

Bugg said the fight was the only
negative incident during the weekend,
which he spent drumming up support
for W&L GALA.

“I got great feedback from the ad-
ministration, the faculty and the stu-
dents,” Bugg said. “The thing to re-
member is that this happened with an
alum.”

Domino’s accepts University cards

By PAULINE Mrm f
Phi Contributing Writer

     
        
   

erything else, why not
pizza?,” senior Ben Gangloff said.

     
   

   
  

qt

 

WASHINCTONAND IQE

\ Students can put money on

the general debit account

in the Business Office.
According to a ﬂyer ex-

'I'he bloodshot army of stu- UNIVERSIW plaining the new service,
dents struggling to satisfy the students should indicate
late-night munchies in Lex— they wish to use their card
ington willﬁndtheir dilemma when ordering. They
3 bit easier. should then give their stu-
1 No cash. No car. No prob- dent number and Domino’s

em. will verify their account.

Domino’s Pizza now ac- 9 Whenthepizzaanives, stu-
izjepts Vtlasléingéon and Lee D O  N O S dents must show the driver

niversity at s. I 1 their card. The driver will

“Our parents pay for ev-  have a slip for them to add

a tip, total, and sign.

Director of University Services James Johndron said

Domino’s employee John Matheny said the service was
added for the convenience of W&L students and to reduce

the number of bad checks they receive.

Domino’s began using a card computer on Sept. 27 to let
students pay for pizza from their general debit account, the
account most students use to pay for food in the Co-op.

students should keep their receipts and, in case of a problem,
take them to the W&L Business Office.

Johndron said Pizza Hut and Frank’s King of Pizza had
expressed interest in the system. Other businesses, such as
dry cleaners and grocery stores, might also take University
Cards in the future. '

To keep up with the Generals. read sports every week in

The Ring-tum Phi

 

HarrIs1‘   
IINNIVERSAIIYSIIIE 

      

‘El

» I . SAVE 70¢ PER LB.

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS

SPLIT FRYER

GROUND FRESH SEVERAL T
DAILY - 70% LEAN

GROUND

LIMIT 5 LBS. WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

  
 
 
 
  
      
  

 

DELI-BAKERY
VIRGINIA BAKED
HAM

SLICED TO
ORDER

STUDENT'S
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY ’
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER
COURTESY CARD.

Harrisfeeter

YOUR. NAME
YOUR ADDRESS

YOUR CITY. STATE
X/X OI/OI/OI
lllllll

IIIII

 

IT ALLOWS YOU TO
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER I34
HARRIS TEETER
LOCATIONS IN
GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00
COUPON AND SAVE.

VALUABLE $1 .00 COUPON

' $ I 0 0 OFF '
I 0 I
I ANY $3.00 on MORE I
I PURCHASE IN OUR I
I FLORAL DEPARTMENT I
I THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I
I LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I
OFFER GOOD OCT. 7 THRU OCT. I3, I992
I COUPON FLORAL I
L _"‘“i _ »::2::«_ _I

Prices Effective Throu h October I3, I992

Prices In This Ad Etiective Wednesday October 7 Through uesd
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Soid To

  
  
   
    

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

IN THE DELI-BAKERY
ALL VARIETIES

FRIED PIES ..................... ..4 CT. 099 I

HT
GRAIN

O
BREAD .............. 24 oz. LOAF O9 9

PRES/DENT-'5 CHOICE
COLA .................................... ..2 IITER O
"‘ 63

157.5 SQ. FT.
ANGEL SOFT

BATH TISSUE ......... ..4ROILS 

VALUABLE 40¢ COUPON
SELECTED VARIETIES - so - 30.5 oz. JAR or

I RAGU SPAGI-IETTI I
I SAUCE I
I I‘: . I
I This Cou I I
Not Be Reg?" uuId. I
I i>i'§“r'iIf;§,Ci>‘Z.‘}‘i"I"s'.‘a» I
I U
 §I.I’.sE3;
I 7TT1ruOcIo erI3,   ; I
I992»  -__.,,.» 3o2ooo332o

I cegf EN GROCERY
I M uatttsteeter 0|
.1

IVALUABLE 70¢ coupon
RESH GROWN - 3 LB. BAG OF

I YELLOW I
I ONIONS I
I I
I g I
I .J.':‘:.§i::’.$2JI:.i. I
Limit Ogle Coupon.
I Per FSLIIM, 'P0r"Y‘|SlI I
Pu ‘ghost: 0 I0. .
I G ole; I
7 IT-{W ggg I . PLU 2080
I ' PRODUCE I
I coupon ti” I
VALUE
7 0<

  
   
  
  

DIET PEPSI on -
PEPSI caI.A

 

‘)"'

     
        
        
      
    
     
   
     
     
        
           
           
    
     

..,.;-1. .. -L.

REDUCE’)
mice

.4..._..-. - ~.__...—..a~_ . -I,» -7'4-.-.4 Lg ‘xi v'..,'~_..--

   

 

F

  

  

  

 

.__......_....._...___I

05, October I3, I992. In

  

' . O
Lexin ton st
eaIers. We Giaciiy Accept Federal togod Statihfeag.

  

    

  

= Ring-tum Phl, October 8', 1992

 

 

   

SPORTS

   
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Photos by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

counterclockwise from top to
bottom: A weary Generals’ de-
tense recelves some words of
encouragement from coach
Frank Mlriello; full back Wilson
Moore is pursued to the outside
by a group of linebackers torthe
Yellow Jackets; Geren Steiner
prepares to get rid of the ball
after avoiding the rush by the
Yellow Jackets'detenslve line-
men; Stephen Cox(40) and Phil
Spears(66) move In on the run-
ning back for the Yellow Jack-
ets.

 

.2. «"

  

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX l792‘i.PLANTATION.FL 33318

THE
SHOW
AROUND

HALFTIME

W&L falls, 31-9

Ci HOMECOMING, from page 8

pattern, and that put W&L on life-
support.

The Generals now trailed by 18 and
the onus was square on their shoulders
to come up with some offense in the
final 30 minutes.

Fallon said the touchdown opened
the door for R-MC.

“I don't know how much emotional
effect it had on the kids-but it allowed
them to do more things. You know, the
rich get richer.

“They could take more chances on
both defense and offense. But our kids
wanted another half of them, no one
was down,” said Fallon.

“This is a good rivalry, there’s no
1ove.'We wanted another shot.”

The Generals got their shot.

Freshman quarterback Matt Reedy
replaced a banged-up Steiner and led
the Generals to their first touchdown of
the game.

He hit all-American punter Bob
Ehret on a 18-yard crossing route. It
was Ehret’s second TD in as many
weeks.The two-point conversion failed
and the Generals trailed 24-9.

Fallon said he brought Reedy in
because he felt Steiner was getting

smothered.

“Things weren’t clicking.
Geren [Steiner] was getting smothered.
we just wanted to see what he could
do.”

Well, Reedy did ﬁne his first time,
and he got a second time to prove
himself.

With 3:57 to go, the generals started
to drive again. Reedy moved them down
ﬁeld with both the rim and the pass. On
a crucial fourth-and—one, Moore
showed why Fallon looks like a genius
for moving him to full back, he pow-
ered over the left side for three yards.

A couple plays later, the Generals
were inside the ten and had a third-and-
eight.

Reedy was forced to the right by the
oncoming rush and threw a desperate
pass that was picked off in the end
zone, and that was she wrote.

Fallon didn’t think the team played
a good game, but he was happy his
team didn’t give up.

He does feel the team needs work
before they go on the road to challenge
Davidson.

“I think the consensus was we didn't
play a real good game. We saw an
awful lot and we know we have to
make better adjustments,” said Fallon.

“The kids were not satisfied.”

    
 
 
 
 

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and Mastr.-rCard®
credit cards..“in your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA!" and MasterCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need for— ID-—BOOKS-DEPARTMENT

   
   

YES

approved lmrnedlately.

! lwant VISAQ/MASTERCI-\RD® Credit
Cards. Enclosed lind $5 which is 100% refundable if not

NAM E
ADDRESS

STORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAl NM ENT-
EMERGENCY G‘\SH—-TICKETS-RESTAURAN'T'S—
HOT ELS—MOTELS——CrAS-—-CAR RENTALS-

    
 
   
  

 

MAII. ‘THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

     

REPAlRS—AND T0 BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING! CITY STATE _ ZIP
‘meant PHONE s.s.#
5”’ “ciao No credit SIGNATURE
sugﬂsgeg 6“: No security deDOSit! MTTE: MasterCard Is a registered trademark d Masiercarri lntemalioml. rm
“°u;IIt'g.¢1 0° Visa is a registered tnderrnrk d'VlSA usa. Inc and VISA lnktrmtional
9 Approval absolutely guaranteed so gm” nurgron .

100°/o GUARANTEED!

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND
RESUME EXPERIENCEE!
Individuals and Student Organizations
wanted to promote SPRING BREAK,
call the nation’s1eider. Inter-Campus

Programs 1-800-327-6013

RAISE A COOL
$1000
IN JUST ONE WEEK!
PLUS ‘I000 FORTHE

MEMBER WHO CALLS!
No obligation. No cost.

You also get a FREE
HEADPHONE RADIO

just for calling

GREEKS 3. CLUBS

1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65

 

This Week:

Football— at Davidson 10/10

Last Week:
Fooball- R—MC 31,W&L 9 (1-2)

  
  

flint ﬁling-mm iﬂlri

WP- AK--LR 13.W&L 11 (3-6) WP- at Nav Invitational 10/ 10&1l
M SOC- W&L 2.H-S 0 (4-4) M Soc- at reensboro 10/ 10

W Soc- Sweet Briar 1.W&L 0 (2-7) W Soc- Gett sburg, 10/10, 2pm

W Ten- W&L 9.R-MC 0 (2-0) M Ten- w& Fall Classic10/10&l1

CC- (M) 9th,(W) 2nd at Frostbrg

PAGE 8

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

VB- B’water 10/8 6pm;at Goucher 10/10

OCTOBER 8, 19%‘ I

 
 

Yellow Jackets spoil W&L Homecoming  

-M defenserecrs eigt sacks; Generas o

Generals defense swarms over the Yellow Jackets’ wide receiver Garry Carter on an attempted

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

By SEAN O’RoURKr~:
Phi Sports Editor

Saturday’s game against the
Randolph-Macon Yellow Jackets was
not as big a blowout as the ﬁnal indi-
cated. The game was actually still com-
petitive until the final minute-and-a-
half.

The Generals played the second-
best, maybe even the best, team in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference and
lost the same way they did to Emory &
Henry.

R-MC beat the Generals with size
and speed and talent.

Any team that can register eight
sacks on Geren Steiner has to have
some size, speed and talent, especially
R-MC’sJack Miscall who recorded six
of the eight.

Even head coach Gary Fallon and
his coaching staff realized the Yellow
Jackets were an excellent team.

“Both our offensive and defensive
staff felt they outmarmed us,” said
Fallon. “They are big and strong and
they wear you down.”

The Generals started off quickly for
the third straight game. On the first
play from scrimmage, sophomore line-
backer Stephen Cox intercepted the
pass from R-MC’s john Smith and re-
turned it to the Yellow Jackets’ 26-
yard line.

The Generals’ first possession

reverse. The Generals defensive line had a tough day handling the larger and faster offensive line for woum really set me tone for me yes; of

Randolph-Macon. The Yellow Jackets gained 216 yards on the ground and 147 yards through the air.

Kerrell Bryant led the way for the Yellow Jackets with 92 rushing yards on the day.

Men’s soccer finds
success on the road

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

While the Generals football team
continues to look for its first triumph at
Wilson Field since 1990, the men’s
soccer team is in no hurry to return
home.

With their 2-0 victory over
Hampderi-SydneyCollege Wednesday,
the Generals improved to 4-4 on the
season, 2-2 in Old Dominion Athletic
Conference play. All four wins have
come on the road.

“We played really well,” said se-
nior tri-captain Reid Murphy. “We’re
getting better every game.”

Murphy, the team’s leading scorer,
assisted on the Generals’ first goal,
netted by fellow tri-captain Kyle Fan-
ning. It was Fanning’s first goal this
year and the sixth of his career.

Sophomore Eric Tracy gave Wash-
ington and Lee a two-goal cushion
Junior John Robinson got his first-ever
assist on Tracy’s goal.

The blanking was goaltender Mike
Steinbrook’s fourth of the season, leav-
ing him three shutouts short of the
school's single-season record.

Steinbrook has been on his game
since yielding nine goals in two games
two weeks ago. He’s only given up one
goal over W&L~’s last three games.

Four days before the Ti gers,though,
the Generals traveled to what head
coach Rolf Piranian called “the real
lion's den.” '

The team headed south to take on
Roanoke College ,who entered the game
with only one loss this year.

“We’re going to have to play ﬂaw-
less to beat them,” Piranian said be-
forehand.

For 90 minutes, Steinbrook was
ﬂawless. Fresh off of a shutout of East-

ern Mennonite, Steinbrook kept
Roanoke out of the net for all of regu-
lation. With the score knotted at 0-0,
the game was forced into overtime.

Steinbrook’s scoreless string of over '

200 minutes was ended 6:03 into the
ﬁrst extra period by Roanoke sopho-
more Andy Smith, and the Maroons
held on for a 1-0 win. “Steinie” re-
corded 1 2 saves and, with Wednesday’s
shutout, holds an outstanding goals-

 

against-average of 1.50.

“We played really well against
Roanoke,” said Murphy. “The result
was unfortunate, though.”

The Generals have evened up both
their conference record and their over-
all mark, and after Saturday's game
versus Greensboro, the Generals will
play the remainder of their regular sea-
son at Liberty Hall Fields.

Saturday’s game could also put se-
nior Mike Mitchem in the Generals’
record book.

Mitchem remains two assists shy of
equaling the W&L all-time assists
record.

Ideally,he’dliketobreakitathome,
and he’ll get that chance on Tuesday
against Randolph-Macon.

the game.
W&L’s first play was full back

Volleyball earns
first ODAC win

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Contributing Writer

W&L completed its first
unblemi shed week of the season by
defeating all three opponents they
faced.

The Generals entered the week
winless in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference at 0-2.

But after two victories over con-
ference teams, W&L’s record now
stands at 2-2 in the ODAC, and 7-9
overall.

W&L started the week off against
Roanoke. The teams split the first
two games, but when Roanoke cap-
tured the third game 15-12, W&L’s
hopes for christening the ODAC
win column at the expense of their
I-81 rivals seemed distant.

The Generals kept their compo-
sure, though, and captured the ﬁnal
two games in impressive fashion,
15-6 and 15-11.

It was sort of a redemption for
the Generals, who lost to defending
ODAC champion Guilford in the
fifth game.

The experience from that loss
might have helped them come up
with this victory.

Head coach Kristi Yarter said
the team came up with some timely
blocking during the Roanoke
match..

“We blocked well as a team ver-
sus Roanoke, and it affected their
timing.”

Freshmen Chrissie Hart and
Cheryl Taurassi led the Generals
offensive barrage. Hart ﬁnished
with 11 kills, while Taurassi dished

out 25 assists.

In the nightcap, W&L asserted
themselves against Mary Baldwin
team, waxing them 15-2 in the first
game. In the second game, the
entire team saw substantial playing
time as the Generals notched a 16-
14 win to take the shorter non-
conference 2-of-3 game match.

Again, the tandem of first year
standouts led the team in kills and
assists. Hart had 8 kills, while
Taurassi notched 17 assists.

Wednesday proved to be the sec-
ond test of W&L’ s ODAC mettle in
the span of a week, as the Generals
traveled to Lynchburg to face
Randolph-Macon Women's Col-
lege. The team lost only one game
en route to a 15-11, 8-15, 15-7, 15-
12 win.

Despite the win, the team was
not overly pleased with its play.

“We didn’t play well, nor were
we satisﬁed, but Randolph-Macon
was erratic, and that made us er-
ratic.”

Tonight, the volleyball will try
to continue their winning ways
when they take on ODAC foe
Bridgewater at6p.m.in the Warner
Center.

 

 

Photo & Video Imaging

Get a new image...ln A Flash
20x30 COLOR PHOTO POSTER

$24.95 WITH COUPON

    

 

FROM YOUR 55MM COLOR NEGATIVE
POSTERS FROM SLIDES OR PRINTS ALSO AVAILABLE

, 14 E. Campbell Ave.
Roanoke, VA 24013

1-800-537-5227  

ffense can only manage 197 yards

Wilson Moore up the middle. Gain of
one yard.

The second play, Steiner is forced
out of the pocket and has to throw it
away to avoid the sack. Third down
and nine.

Steiner drops back to pass, is ﬂushed
outofthepocketagain,andhashispass
broken up by defensive back Harry
Mum.

On fourth down, Fallon decided to
gamble and try a 42-yard ﬁeld goal.
The Generals had not successfully con-
verted on a ﬁeld goal attempt since
1990. .

Sophomore Marc Newman changed
all that. He split the up-rights with a
perfectly struck ball and put the Gener-
als ahead, 3-0.

It looked as if the Generals were
going to repeat their successes against
Centre the week before. But it was not
to be.

W&L couldn’t get anything going
on offense and Fallon says it was a
combination of their defense and our
offense.

“We had to execute better offen-
sively. When we have opportunities,
we have to make something happen,”
said Fallon.

“However, blocking was real prob-
lem. Some of their players were above
ours, especially that 92(Miscall). He
had a great day; he was definitely a
level or two above our kids."

The Yellow Jackets would then turn
their own version of the “Hogs” loose
on the Generals ’ defensive front seven.

R-MC threw four different runners a
the Generals and it definitely did lhk
trick.

On their third possession, R-M
drove down the ﬁeld with 11 of d '
plays coming on the ground. They
scored on a quarterback keeper, and
the Yellow Jackets would lead 7-3, and
never trail again.

“We just made some mistakes at thr
wrong time,” said Fallon. “They hit i’
where we weren’t and when that I
pens, there’s not much you can do.”

R—MC would score on their next
possession, but the real killer came on ‘
their ﬁnal drive of the half.

The Generals had played the Yel- ‘

low Jackets even for the remainder of
the half and only trailed 14-3 wherii
MC took over with 1:59 on the clock
They started 80 yards from paydirt,
and the way the defense had played or
the previous two possessions, it looked .
like the Generals would go in only
trailing by l 1.
But it was not meant to be.

R-MC ran Kerrel Bryant for T1 .

back—up QB Andrew Bush hit wide '
out Garry Carter for 13, plus an extra
15 for a late hit penalty, that moves the .
Yellow Jackets to the W&L 40; fou, ,_
plays later, Bush threw the ball dowi "4
the right sideline and Eric Lewis 4 j
a great diving catch for a gain of 1 _
two plays after that, Bush hit David ”
Hughes in the end zone on a timing

El See HOMECQMING, page 7

Women’s soccer falls’
in sixth straight

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Not even the return of last year’s
all-conference goalie could break the

’ women's soccer team out of their six-

game losing streak.

“It’s been so long since we’ve won
and a long time since we’ve scored that
we ‘re playing not to lose and playing a
little scar ” said head coach Janine
Hathom.

Junior Kate Stirneling’s reappear-
ance in goal bolstered the Generals
defense.

Stimeling, who played halfback for
the ﬁrst ﬁve games, took over in goal
for freshman Mirns Rowe eight min-
utes into last week's 3-1 loss to
Roanoke.

Rowe allowed two goals before a
slight knee injury forced her from the

e.

The Generals defense turned up the
intensity with Stirneling’s arrival.

“Kate instilled conﬁdence in them
with her skill and experience,” said
Hathom.

The Generals kept pace during the
remaining 82 minutes of play.

Freshman Jenni Robison’s goal was
the only offense W&L could muster on
the afternoon.

Last Saturday's Homecoming loss
to a powerful Mary Washington squad
resembled the Roanoke game closely.

The Generals played evenly with
the Eagles for 80 of the 90 rriinutes.

The only letdown came early in the
second half when they gave up three
quick goals.

Last Tuesday, the Generals returned
to Old Dominion Athletic Conference
play at Sweet Briar College.

Despite outshooting them 20-5,

 
   

\ \
\

,too. It’sjust

V 

  at>Po9io9-90*‘

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

; and Accessories
%  gltaln  24450 (703) 463-5988
n on.
a /

 z

W&L couldn’t match an early goal‘oy ‘

Sweet Briar and lost a real heartbreaker, “
1-0. A

The loss dropped the Generals to 2- j ‘i

4 in the ODAC and 2-7 overall.
Hathorn looks towards Saturday’s
2 p.m. game with Gettysburg College
with 0pti- 0 _
mism. * ' 
“I feel
very posi-
tive,” said
H a t h o r n .
“They’re a
good team, ,
but we are

   

a matter of
the girls get- .
ting it to- ‘ “
gether and Stimeling
being ready. It’s a good situation grd
we’ll play well.” ,

The Generals defense of juniors As-
pen Yawars, Allison Lewis, Kathleen
Eastland and sophomore Marina Jack-

son looked sharp last week in front of .

Stimeling.

Stimeling ﬁnished with and inc3:d-
ible 32 saves in her first two games
back in goal.

Stimel ing wanted to play in the ﬁeld
this year, but will probably remain in
goal for the rest of the season.

“She’s a true competitor and does
what it takes to help the team win,"§aid
Hathom. “It’s impressive what s e's
doing to help us out.” i

The slump hasn’t dampened their
desire to work hard and to win.

“They’re working harder in prac-
tice than any W&L team I've ever
coached,” said Hathom. -

“I strongly believe that we're gtﬁng
to win some games. They just need to
hang in there.”

    
 

 \

-—just one affair-
womorrs formal wear for hire

of washlngton, dc '

is returning to Lexington on
OCTOBER 11, 1992

for our end-of-season

BLOWOUT SALE!

Designer Formal Dresses & Gowns on Sale!
Prices start at $49!
Ramada Inn 0 Exit 195 off 81
4 miles north of Lexington

Noon to 5 p.m. - All sales ﬁnal
Pay by check. AMEX. V|SA. MC

For info please call
202-686-7255

 

 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  

