Gfoiil a it-:Et

INIVERSITV

1£‘<lNG’:‘ON, VA 244:0

Alumni Weekend Edition

MAY 0 7 1993

 

Weekend Weather

Friday — Mostly Sunny,
high 70’s

‘Saturday —— Mostly Sunny,
high 70’s to low 80’s

Sunday — Partly cloudy,
high 70’s

Professor Sidney Coulling

Remembers the Past in Address
for Alumni Weekend

The Thrill of Victory

Women’s Lax Romps Roanoke

(E)

0112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

OLUME 92, NO. 25

Q

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON,

VIRGINIA

May 6, 1993

approves Delt’s July return

Fhe Delta Tau Delta house is still undergoing renovations. Stu-
ients will be able to move into the house by September 1.

Pub Board
requests
$5,000

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

The Washington and Lee Publica-
tiﬁns Board requested $5,000 from the
Executive Committee Monday to cor-
rect an 18—month—old budgeting error.

Richard Peltz and Cathryn
Lopiccolo appeared on behalf of the
Pub Board. They said former EC Vice
President Bo Russell authorized a
$’§,()0() withdrawl from the Pub Board’s
reserve funds in October 1991.

According to Peltz, this money was
later used to fund The Ring-tum Phi.
Pelt’/. said this money should have been
taken from the EC’s reserves and not
from the Pub Board.

I “The Pub Board was never informed
[of the withdrawal],” said Peltz.

Peltz saidthcmistake occurred while
he was serving as President of the Pub
Board. Pelt‘/, and Lopiccolo discov-
ered the error while reviewing the Pub
Board’s financial situation.

Q “I feelpartlyresponsible,”saidPeltz,
a senior, “and I’d like to see something
done before I leave.”

Peltz asked that the EC “leave a
standing order with [Assistant Con-
troller of the Business Office Donald]
Holt to transfer S5,000 back to the Pub
Board.”

Peltz said after the $5,000 discrep-
ancy was found, he went over the Pub
Board’s financial records with Holt.

“A computer gave Bo Russe1l’s
name as the authorizer,” said Peltz.

EC President Josh MacFarland said
he does not believe Russell intended to
steal the money from the Pub Board.

“I don’t think it was [Russel_l’s]
fault,” he said. “I seem to think that
what was done was done out in the
open.” _

MacFarland said the EC does not
‘currently have the money necessary to
‘reimburse the Pub Board.

‘‘I just don’t think we can do it
now,” said MacFarland at Monday’s
EC meeting. “I would rather see next
year’s committee deal with this dis-
crepancy.”

The EC agreed to attempt to pay the

‘Pub Board later this year, when it will
receive surplus money from EC-funded
organizations. If it still doesn’t have
enough money, the EC will leave a
recommendation for next year’s com-
mittee to fix the error.

Calyx Editor and Pub Board mem-

“oer Antheny Catalano said the Pub
Board will put the money to good use
by buying L,‘ql,lll"“l‘.‘lll for the smaller
publications on the board.

“Right now, [the smaller publica-
tions] have to use the Ring-tum Phi’s

..and the Calyx’s equipment.”

By ANDREA Coiiiztxi
Phi News Editor

Come July 1, Delta Tau Delta will
be back on campus.

The Student Affairs Corrtniitte voted
unanimously Friday, April 30 to for-
mally reinstate Delt, which was sus-
pended iii January 1992 for damaging
their house. The original suspension
was for five years, what some mem-
bers called a “death penalty” for the
chapter. That decision was later re-
duced to an 18 month suspension,
followed by three years of critical pro-
bation. “ —

“I think the penalty...should punish
the current chapter without jeopardiz-
ing the prospect of a renewed and
strengthened presence of the fraternity
at Washingt()n and Lee,” Presidentlohn
Wilson wrote in his recommendation
to SAC to reduce the penalty in Febru-
ary 1992.

Delt president Patrick McCabe and

house corporation member Kevin
Webb, ’95L, made a presentation to
SAC to show them what changes they
have made over the past year and what
plans they have for next year.

Howison said the fraternity will ac-
tively return to all aspects of fraternity
life on the campus in the fall. Most
importantly, that includes a vote on the
lnterfratemity Council and the ability
to participate in rush.

In accordance with the original pun-
ishment, Delt will be on critical proba-
tion for three years. They will not be
limited or restricted from any social
activities, Howison said. The frater-
nity has a strong warning that during
that period of probation if there is a
serious violation of the university’s
pol icies towards fraternities, Delt could
be permanently kicked off the W&L
campus.

Howison said SAC was impressed
with the work the students and alumni
have done since their suspension.

Delt reorganized their internal or-

ganizations, adopted a new set of by-
laws, and improved their relations with
their alumni and nationals.

McCabe said Delt’s bylaws hadn’t
been updated since 1966. One of the
major changes in the new bylaws con-
cerns the election of officers in the
fratemity.

Delt officers will now serve Janu-
ary to December terms rather that April
through May terms.

“This increases the amount of time
to allow for a smooth transition be-
tween officers,” McCabe said. “We’ll
have the out—goin g officers there for a
longer period.”

Another change in the officer struc-
ture is that some officers will be ap-
pointed by the president instead of be-
ing elected by the entire fraternity. The
president, vice-president, treasurer,
assistant treasurer, rules committee
chairman, corresponding and record-
ing secretaries, guide and seargant-at-
arms will still be elected. But the rush
chairman,scholarshipchairman,pledge

By THOMAS HESPOS

Phi News Editor

educator, alumni relations chairman,
house and ground chairman, publicity
chairman and social chaimian will now
be appointed by the president.

“It's necessary for the president to
have officers who he can work the best
with and get the most done,” McCabe
said. “That's not necessarily who gets
elected. We assume everyone is ca-
pable of handling the responsibility lof
being an officer]. We wzuit to give the
president the freedom to choose who
he can work the best with.”

Howison thinks this change will be
beneficial to the fraternity.

“To be successful at the next stage
Deltneeds unity in the house,” Howison
said. “I thought that was a good admin-
istrativc move.”

McCabe said Dell has worked hard
to improve relations with their alumni.
In February, members of the fraternity
met with their alumni and established a

:1 See DELT, page 8

Revisions pass

before taking office, this amendment ensures
succession of the official by calling for an
election. ’

3) Voting Regulations Board

    

Photo by Nancy Pavlovic, The Fl/ng-tuzirn Phi

Thirty cadets attended a debate on VMl’s controversial coedueation issue.

Two cadets pulled from debate

By ADAM Pi.o'ri<iN
Phi Contributing Writer

tion is waiting to be heard by the United States
Supreme Court.
The other cadet, B. Scott Coleman, appeared on

Two Virginia Military liistitute cadets sched-
uled to participate in the April 29 debate on coedu-
eation at VMI were pulled from the docketjust days

before the event.

“Commandant [Colonel N. Michael] Bissell
called us into his office and said that [VMl’s]
lawyers didn’t want us making public statements,”
said Cadet Clarence Tweety. “The lawyers felt that
our opinions could be misconstrued as the official
VMI position, and they didn't want that to interfere

with the court case.”

The VMI appeal to remain a single-sex institu-

Leyburn dies at 91

FROM STAFF REPORTS

l2unesG.Leyburn,oneofWashing-
ton and Lee University’s riiost distin-
guished teachers and scholars, died of
complications brought on by pneumo-
nia on Wednesday, April 28, in Mary-
land.

Leyburn, who was 91 when he died,
came to W&L in 1947 from Yale Uni-
versity where he haditaught sociology
for 20 years. Leybum served as dean of
the university until 1955 when he re-
signed from that position so he could
devote himself fully to teaching.
Leyburn was head of the department of
sociology and anthropolgy until 1967,
retiring as dean and professor emeritus
in 1972.

Almost as soon as he began his
career at W&L, Leybum proposed
strengthening the university’s academic
standards and making the curriculum
closer to the liberal arts ideal. In what
became known as the “Leybum Plan,”
he said that his goal as dean was that
“everyone by common consent [should]
name us first on the list of great teach-

‘ ing universities,just as everyone tends

to name llarvard"first in any list of
great research universities.”

When Leyburii retired in 1972,
former W&L president Robert E.R.
Huntley said that “the subsequent his-

television stating that he preferred VMI to remain
single-sex before he was pulled from the debate,
which was sponsored by W&L’s chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union, the Federalist
Society and Women’s Forum. Professor Allan
Ides, of the Washington and Lee School of Law
argued that VMI should maintain its siiigle—scx
admissions policy, while Nadine Strossen argued
for, coedueation. A. Lionel Taylor, Jr.,’93L, and
Jodi D. Lowry,’94L, replaced the cadets, arguing

_I See VMI, page 8

 

After more than ﬁve weeks of waiting for
results from the Voting Regulations Board, the
Executive Committee released the news Friday
that all amendments of the 1993 Constitutional
Referendum passed.

“lt’s definitely a positive thing,” said EC
President Josh MacFarland. “It’s going to
essentially clear a few things up... and put into
writing a few things that we already do.”

Over 51% of enrolled students participated
in the election.

iMacFarland said amendment seven is par-
ticularly important to the EC. The amendment
covers the circumstances under which the EC
can go into executive, or closed, session. Be-
fore the amendments were passed, the Student

Body Constitution stated the the EC “shall not

go into executive session, except in the case of

possible honor violations.”

These changes will be recorded in next year’s
White Book and Student Handbook. Most of
the changes clarify and legislate current EC‘
practices.

The revisions are as follows:

1) Style

Fixes up the language in the Student Body
Constitution so that it is stylistically consislant.

2) Succession

In the case of a withdrawal of an EC official

Designates the VRB to supervise elections.

4) Maintaining Quorum and Filling Va-
cancies

Calls for elections to fill vacancies in the
EC. Fills temporary vacancies to maintain
quorum during Spring Term.

5) EC/Pub Board Relationship

Limits EC jurisdiction of the Pub Board.
Sets Pub Board minimum reserve at $3,000.

6) Student Conduct Committee

Updates constitution to abolish Facultv EC
supervision of the SCC. Subject to later review
by the faculty.

7) Executive Session

Keeps EC from going into closed session,
except in the case of honor investigations and
hearings, interviews for committee appoint-
ments, deliberations on awards and appoint-
ments, disciplinary hearings involving coni-
mittee members and cases involving White
Book confidentiality.

8) Publications Subscriptions

Allows the EC to negotiate the price of
yearbook and newspaper subscriptions.

9) SCC President

Ensures that the EC schedules winter temi
elections. Releases the EC from prior rules that
determined the date of elections. Adds the
position of SCC President as an elected of fice.

tory of Washington and Lee has been,
in large measure, the history of imple-
menting the Leyburn Plan.”

Lcyburii was the author ofsix books,
two of which, The Ilaitian People and
'1 ‘he Scotch-Irish.‘ /1 Social I I islory, are
considered classics in the field ofsoci-
ology.

Leyburn was a member of Phi Beta

Diversity:
     Catch-word

 

Kappa, Sigma Xi, and Omicron Delta
Kappa honorary fraternities and the
Elizabethan Club of Yale. He received
the Lynchburg Citation in 1969. The
citation is presented annually by the
Washington and Lee alumni chapter in
Lynchburg and is generally regarded
as one of the most important honors an
alumni chapter can award.

Upon his retirement to the family
farm near Martinsburg, WV, he be-
came, for the next 15 years, an organist

  FY)’-

“ivariety;imultifonnity,” is one deﬁnition

National
. . Freshman Lire Goals
of   85%“ Be very well
75“ off ﬁnancially
Diversity: the hot as.-
ywatch-word for college
., .' ‘ _ ‘ ' ' 55- De 1
higher education inst1tu- ,,,;;f,,?,‘,’,f?,, .
tions all across thecoun-  45 philosophy owe
I 3i 

   
 

 
 
 
 

at Falling Waters Presbyterian Church
and teacher of the adult Sunday School
class.

Leybum’s father was a graduate of
W&L in 1887 and his great—grandfa-
ther once served as rector of the Board
of Trustees.

Leyburii received his B.A. and M.A.
degrees in economics from Duke Uni-
versity in 1920 and 1921, an M.A. in
l.‘(‘()T"‘lV7i(‘\‘ ‘lllti social institutions from
Princeton in 1922, and a Ph.D. in soci-
ology from Yale in 1927. He received
honorary degrees from both Duke and
Washington and Lee.

1 given for diversity in Webster's New Univer-
~ sal Unabridged Dictionary. Butte many people
at Washington and Lee the word signiﬁes a
"V . variety of things. A diverse student body may
 having students from different areas in
‘ the country, from families of varying afflu-

  
 
 
 

. y. 
.« 2 and .1‘Jzu\r¢v.PAi/Iiovic’ ’
tags‘ : -iu1m-,r:igz,jsza}_7"_,-

  

V , ence, of various ethnic backgrounds or reprcseinting~iaispeetmm  political
*  V  For Dean of Stt.itlents’Davii‘d, ‘on div ’
ofpointofview. - .    g

, y “We needtode,l*inc"wtiatdiv;=.rsi,t,yr_xie 
 said.“Dlv ‘ ‘ “V

1968 1972 1976 1980 1984 1988 1992

 

 iitnibcfzttttinstion I

 

\

¢FSil}tftlfi¢aiisail,, - 5‘ ’

 

 9 « ‘see 0 VERSlTY:*Page'4

 

PAGE 2

 

 

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Diversity?

Over the course of the next year, the Phi intends to tackle
various issues that have an impact on campus. In doing so we
hope to shed some light on the under currents that move the
W&L community.

The first of these issues involves the question of diversity
and it’s place at our university. For many, there is no
question that diversity has no place here. For others, it is not
so clear.

But, as this year’s freshmen class has been saying in
different ways, the status quo may not be all it’s cracked up
to be. Whether or not W&L needs to admit students from
varying socio-economic backgrounds, ethnic backgrounds,
political persuasions and genders is something administra-
tors cannot decide on their own. Simply admitting a diverse
class will not ensure a change if students and alumni do not
support it.

Most students will say that W&L like everything else
mustehange, and as many of our alumni will readily tell you,
we are sure, it has changed dramatically in the last 10 years.
But for many students the changes are not quick enough or
significant enough. The most important issue here is not
necessarily how fast we make the move towards a more
diverse W&L. The major issue is how we treat the people
that want the changes.

Tolerance of people who are different is essential. Just
because someone does not agree with your political views,
does not mean they are a leper to be shunned. On the contray,
we should take the opportunity to learn from anyone who has
adifferent perspective on life than we do. That does not mean
you have to agree them. Your opinion is your own and can
not be wrong, but neither can someone elses.

Surely no one is suggesting we abandon our most revered
traditions, but we can not blindly follow the status quo in the
name of tradition. The students at W&L represent some of
the best and brightest students in the country. As such, we
should challenge each other intellectually, both in and otit of
the classroom.

The one thing that students, whether they love it or hate it
at W&L, have said repeatedly is they did not know what
W&L was really like until they got here.

If any of you have looked at the admissions pamphlets
recently you know why. These pamphlets devote all of one
sentence to the greek system. Whether you are a champion
or an opponent of Greeks, you can not deny that the fraternity
and sorority systems play a tremendous role in the social side
ofW&L. It is true, there are alternatives ifyou are not Greek,
but admissions should make it clear that a vast majority of the
student’body'-eho"os"e‘s to‘ go greek.‘ A ' P A i ' 9

Student Recruitment and admissions can continue to
spout the virtues of W&L, but if they told the truth about all
aspects of W&L life everyone would be better off. For those
of you who are on Student Recruitment or admissions, don’t
freak out. We know your job is to attract students to W&L.
But is it necessary to omit vital information from the picture
painted of W&L?

Yes, we know we have strayed somewhat from the topic
of diversity. But it seems to us that all these things are
intertwined. The way you portray the university effects the
applicant pool. Obviously, the applicant pool effects the
final outcome of every new class. '

So, maybe if we gave the full ‘picture of W&L, insted of
little fragments, we would have both a more diverse and
content student‘ body.

——-F.K.. N.P.

 

- V
. F -. 2-5:‘
.5 as ~
~..\*t\
\

-,I, 3 To €uPPosg this IS
\:%' wag QM. M9kHi’

       

' 1

  
    

      

   

h)l46‘i‘ N? 9% H?
We (,g,.>lr 11> 0-61’
’1’i«tiéb-S at‘? The’
(,eo.mb?rg,/CW

  
    

  

  
 

 
 

   

-St 

     

%

The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1993 ,

  

  

WASHlNGTON—RolICallnews-
paper has been covering Capitol Hill
for 38 years, so by now it should be
unshockable. Nevertheless, it is re-
coiling, and the entire political class
should be, front the idea the Senate
Rules Committee is entertaining con-
cerning sexual ha-
rassment allega-

tions that were “just plain wrong.”
The Constitution empowers each
house tojudge the elections and quali-
fications of its members, and to punish
members, even with expulsion. Two
clear grounds for exclusion or expul-
sion from either house would be trea-
son, an
o ff e n s e

  
  

  

tions against against
Ore ion’s Republi- the safety
canéSenator Bob GE()R(}E WILL ' ofthe na-
Packwood,wholast _ t i o n
November was Washington POSI ( s o m e
elected to a fifth writers Group members
term. were ex-

The idea is that pelled for
Packwood should a l l e -
be unseated be- giance to

cause he lied to The Washirigton Post
and misled other media before the
November election. “This claim, ”
says Roll Call, “is so lame, so down-
right weird, that we can’t believe a
committee that has far better things to
do is wasting more than eight seconds
on it.” Hush, Roll Call. This could be
hilarious.

As Election Day neared, the Post,
pursuing rumors long circulating here
and in Oregon, was investigating alle-
gations of sexual misconduct—aggres-
sive and unwanted physical attention—
by Packwood toward various women
over a 20-year period. Shortly before
Election Day he denied to the Post that
he had behaved improperly. He alleg-
edly misled Oregon media about the
Post’s investigation and he allegedly
tried to discredit or intimidate some of
his accusers.

Nineteen days after the election,

which Packwood won by 78,000 votes -
' and with a 52 percent margin, the Post

published a lengthy documentation of
the allegations. Packwood subse-
quently apologized for unspecified ac-

the Confederacy); or bribery, an of-
fense against the integrity of govem-
ment.

The third ground would be vote
fraud, such as stuffing ballot boxes,
rigging voting, registering ineligible
voters—-physical acts that assault the
integrity of the democratic process.
But the people petitioning the Rules
Committee to unseat Packwood are
arguing that he was not “duly elected.”
They want to expand the idea of elec-
tion fraud beyond irregularities regard-
ing the castiiig or counting of votes, to
include the making of false statements
or the omission of information by a
candidate during a campaign that could
have affected voters’ decisions.

Well. It will be interesting to see
which senator wants to be the first to
cast that political stone at Packwood.

If the Senate vastly expands its ac-
tivities as judge of who has and who
has not been “dulyieleeted”- who has
conducted fully candid campaigns - it
had better brace itself. There will be a
flood of requests by losing candidates
for reviews of the veracity and com-

proposal ridiculous

pleteness of statements made by win-
ning candidates.

The anti-Packwood forces say they
want the Senate to affirm only a “nar-
row rule” that subjects a candidate to
exclusion from the Senate if when cam-
paigning he or she was deliberately
misleading about“personal,historical”
matters. But suppose, say Packwood’s
lawyers, a candidate falsely answers
“no” or “artfully dodges” an answer to
questions such as “Have you commit-
ted adultery?” or
“Have you ever
sought to avoid
service in the
armed forces of
the United States
in timeofwar'.7”or
“Have you ever
used illegal
drugs?” Does the
Senate fully want
to undertake such
supposedly “nar-
row” inquiries, to

They want to expand
the idea of election
fraud beyond irregulari-
ties regarding the cast-
ing or counting of votes, tal
to include the making of
false statements or the
omission of information

it
(‘pk
I
D
O
middle-class tax cut. Just after the

election, he reverses his position and
says that he will support a middle—cla;,s
tax increase.”

What senator wants to say that a
candidate has an affirmative obliga-
tion to disclose damaging “personal,
historical” infomiation about himself,
or an obligation to provide all informa-
tion about his intentions that are gw
mane to an informed decision by vot-
ers? The Rules Committee is clearly
entertaining an
idea that could
add to the public
stack of merri-
ment at the er,-
pense of the po-
litical class, espe-

crowd in the capi-
It is just seven
months since Big.

Clinton ended the
D e m o c r a t i c

g:‘;;'“i“°  by a candidate during a 
owed---; campaign that could losses in the last
Besides. if the have affected voters’ 5"‘ °'°““°“5)

Senate is to judge
who has and who
has not been prop-
erly elected by suf-
ficiently candid

decisions. Well. It will
be interesting to see
which senator wants to

with a campaig

promise to lighten
the middle-class
tax burden and
featuring many

campaigns, why he the first t0 cast that otherhregiliarkably
_.h 1d- be _ - - pens a eprom-
zefrtied iotnly  political stone at is“ Andmwme
candorconceming Packwood‘ De-m°C‘a‘lC'°°‘P
“personal, histori- trolled Senate ls

cal” details. Is not
candor about public policy intentions

at least as important? Packwood’s

attorneys mischievously suggest a“hy-
pothetical situation”of a candidate who
“in his campaign repeatedly and elo-
quently promises that he will support a

inviting contem-

- plation of this-
i thought: Perhaps the winner of an-

election forfeits his fight to the office
he won if he used tactical deceptions to
tiptoe past Election Day. ‘
rz Washington Post Writers Group, 1993

cially the new »

Ellie ﬂting-tum Iﬂltt

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Justin McNaull

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whltney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business

manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi of lice, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court

definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Republicans, Perot stall progress

WASHINGTON — Nothing is more irritating to
Americans than to read that Boris Yeltsin’s hardline
rivals have refused to recognize his impressive vic-
tory in last Sunday’s balloting. Don’t those Russians
get it? When you lose on election, you should shut up
and let the other fellow goveni for a while! lfyou’re
going to keep up the
endless kibitzing, if

other public works construction, by putting America’s
young people to work, he hoped to convert an uncer-
tain recovcry into a certain one.

As it turns out, Clinton’s prescription was dead on
the mark. Last Thursday. the Commerce Department
reported that in the first three months of 1993, the

economy grew at an anemic 1.8
percent. That means the nation’s

the gridlock is going
to stay locked, why

 
  

CHRISTOPHER

output in goods and services is
not expanding fast enough to cre-

boihcr holding c1cc- ate new jobs for those leaving
[ions in the first MATTHEWS collegethisJune,notconsistently
place‘? . .' enough to secure the jobs and
Sadly for Tflbune Medici livelihoods of those men and
America, the Services women already working.

 

rearguard commies
aren’t the only folks
to miss this point.
Back here in the USA, the forces defeated in last
November’s election remain equally driven by their
political greed, equally determined to destroy a presi-
dcncy the voters denied them, equally bent on a
scorched-earth policy that purchases them political
hope in the future at the price of American economic
recovery in the present.

if this seems a harsh indictment on the Republi-
cans and Ross Perot —— they were the ’92 losers, let’s
not forget —- consider the economic and political
record the past three months. Bill Clinton, the elected
president, arrived in the Oval Office committed to a
policy of strong economic growth. To achieve it, he
proposedashort-term program of job-creating “stimu-
lus.” By creating new employment in highway and

 

Unfortunately, the “Stimulus”
program Clinton so smartly pre-
scribed never got iiito the nation’s
economic bloodstream. While the S l 6.9 billion mea-
sure moved quickly through the House of Represen-
tatives, Clinton couldn’t get the Senate even to vote on
it. As a result, the 50(),00() jobs (5(),000 of them in
hard—hit California) the administration promised to
create remain uncrcated.

Why didn't the new president get his high—priority
program passed‘? Because it was defeated on its mer-
its? No. Because the minority leader of the Senate,
Bob Dole, wants to run for president someday; to
display his macho to the Republican right, he used
parliamentary tactics to prevent Clinton from even
getting a vote on his “stimulus” proposal.

More gridlock in the making. Last Sunday, as
Boris Yeltsin was proving the value of democracy in

LETTERS

0

Russia, Ross Perot launched a hugely-expensive
media campaign to further block it here in the
United States. Like Yeltsin’s rearguard opponents,
he ignored the results of last November’s elections
and acted as if they’d never been held.

What Perot has proposed is, in practical term;
just what the leader of the defeated Republican
Party accomplished two weeks ago: more gridlock.
What Dole and Co. did to Clinton’s short-terni
economic program, Perot now wants done to the
president’s loiig-terni fiscal plan. He wants it
dismembered. And what does Perot himselfoffer in
place ofClinton’s fiscal policy‘? Nothing. The my
elected Texan says he opposes Clinton’s tax pro-
gram but, given a chance on last Sunday’s “Meet the
Press,” refused numerous opportunities to cite a
single Clinton revenue measure that he thinks is
wrong. He paid $340,000 for a TV show that night
to call again for deficit reduction, but refused to use
a minute of his paid-for time to state a singlg
program he wants cut.

Politics makes strange bedfellows. lt could be
that Bob Dole, who ran for president twice and lost,
and Ross Perot, who ran once and lost, see the defeat
of Bill Clinton’s economic program as their two-
lane highway to the White House. Sadly for the
country, this two—teaming of Clinton could wel
destroy the new president’s economic program be-

fore it ever gets started. Sadly for the world, it sends 1

the message all the way to Moscow that the voters
can be totally ignored ifyou have the money, power
and political greed to do it.

aeTriburie Media Services, I993

Alumna questions W&L's good ole boy attitude -

To the Editor:

I spent four years at W&L struggling, sometimes
unsuccessfully, to keep my mouth shut.

Since graduation, l have tried to assure the people
l meet that W&L is not still caught in some Appala-
chian Stone Age. The Spring l993 edition of the
Alumni magazine served as a reminder to me that St.
Bob has probably rolled in his vault every time I told
some new acquaintance that my alma mater had
rounded a comer and joined us in the late 20th
century.

That a member of the Class of ’39 would write to
say, that he is tired of hearing about “queers” was no
surprise to me, nor, I am embarrassed to say, was it a
surprise to read that Mr. Rock, class of ’90, also has
no interest in reading about private lives unlike his
own.

I was, however, surprised that a publication so

readily available to perspective students would openly
admitaiid publish the fact that ifyou are not astraiglit,
white male, your place at W&L is one that must
continuallyjustify to yourselfand to alumni who fund
everything you do. The alumni seem to be doing
everything they can to counteract the rise in college
rankings that came to W&L with women —— the others
who have been given the opportunity to be date raped
on one ofthe most attractive campuses in the country.

Bob Moore, Class of '44, wonders if alumni giv-
ing has not fallen offsince eoeducation. If it had, Mr.
Moore, I would not wonder, because the alumni
publications l have received and the alumni functions
that l have attended have done nothing to inspire me
to give. They have, in fact, only sung the same song
I heard from 1988 to 1992 ——- white, straight men
belong at W&L, no one else.

I have given up. I am finally willing to admit that

I am ashamed ofW&L’s oppressive politics. I won ’t
be pretending to laugh with you good ole boys
anymore. My memories of W&L are of faculty and
staff who encouraged and taught me to be the best
that l can be on my own terms. They are of bright,
tolerant people who did not belong there any more
than I did. l survived W&L despite four alumni
weekends.

You close-niinded old men paid for me to receive
an excellent education from men and women who
taught me to think for myself and see beyond super-
ficialities. And, I am happy to say, one day you’ll be‘
dead, and W&L will be in the hands of people like
me.

Traci_Li go, ’92
(Traci Lazenby)

 

Ttiieﬁing-tum Phi, May 6, 1993

 

Sros’ SPACE
. By Tom Hespos

EveryThursday moniiiig at 1()a.m.,
Phi staff members come into the office
before class and perform last—minute
ta.‘ s before taking the Phi down to the
printer. It is never a fun task, as most
Phi-sters are up until 6 a.m. the night
before, laying down copy for that par-

’ ticular week’siiewspaper. Last week,

Spos’ mild—niaiiiiered alter-ego, the
journalistically focused News Editor
T Hespos, volunteered to help Ex-
ecutive Editor Fran Kefalas prepare
the paper for its voyage to the printer.

At 10 a.m., I pulled my car up to the
frontofthe University Center. Finding
no two-hour parking spots left, I de-
cided to use one of the spots in that
semicircular parking area that is la-
bc'R:d“CDP RecruiterOnly.” Big mis-
take.

I ran up to the Phi Office, greeted
Ms. Kefalas, who was already standing
there with X—Acto knife in hand, and

- started to gather the necessary materi-

al§for thejob at hand.

Not more than 30 seconds later, I
glanced out the window to see Security
Officer Tomlinson scrawling out a
ticket for my little yellow VW. [figure
that in order for Mr. Tomlinson to have
gotten there in such a short length of
time, he must have been hiding in the
bu§hes. I hollered out the window to
get his attention:

'79

“Don’t even think about it, buddy.
I said.

Tomlinson cast a glance up at me
and said that I had better move my car.

Okay, so everything’s cool. right? I
go downstairs, move the car, and
cverything’s peachy keen, right’?
Wrong. When I get downstairs,
Tomlinson is still writing out his $25
ticket for my violation of the Sacred
Book of the University Traffic Code.
He hands me the ticket and I give him
one of those pissed-off “thank you’s”
that you always feel compelled to say
to officers of the law when they hand
you citations.

I don’t mean to sound like a butt-
head, but couldn’t W&L Security cut
me a break? I mean, I did leave my
emergency lights flashing, thus indi-
cating I was only going to be there for
about five minutes. Heck, Career De-
velopmentdoesn’teven use those spots
during spring term because no compa-
nies come to campus to recruit during
the spring months. I’m sure they didn’t
mind that I borrowed the space for a
few minutes.

All aggravation about having this
week’s beer fund diminished by 20
bucks aside, let’s examine Washington
& Lec’s security force, starting with
the fact that they are not real police-
men. They can’t carry guns. Would
you feel comfortable calling on Baner
to protect you from “Big Floyd,” the
townsperson who likes to drink cases
of Pabst Blue Ribbon and has a propen-
sity toward violent crime?

And what about security’s priori-

PAGE 3

OPINION

W&L title fight: Spos vs. Security

ties‘? They seem to be preoccupied
with giving out parking tickets. As a
matter of fact, there are several hun-
dred things that W&L Security guards
should get done before they even think
about giving out a single ticket. Thus.
I offer the following:

Top Ten Things Security Should
Be Doing, Other Than Giving Out

collecting approximately ten grand in
lost deposits.

5) Two words... Live Drive

6) Taking classes in unarmed coni-
but.

7) Patrolliiig campus housing to pre-
vent btirglaries.

8,) Trying to catch one of those silly
Cadaver Society guys.

Tickets

9) Listening to some cool music.

Anything by Public
Enemy or lce—T
should suffice.

10) Reviewing
their annual budget
and removing any
funds appropriated
for donuts and cof-
fee.

Additionally, I
think Baner should
quitusinguniversity—
bought vehicles and
gas money to drive
drunken sorority girls
home from parties.
And as for
Tomlinson, I have but
one question: Does
my tuition pay for that
donut that you are
eaung?

I wish I had the
motivation to acquire

i )

Catching

‘hf ".‘,°I_"‘." Let’s examine Wash-
maniac in _ , _
the Law ington & Lee s security
L1bF'~"Y- force, starting with the

2) R°' f h 'h

ch,,,.g,,,g actt att ey are not
their hi- real policemen. Thev

t e c h a ‘
Suzuki p,_l_ can t carry guns.

trol vc- Would you feel comfort-
“ ‘ C I 0 ~*‘- able calling on Baner to
(Actually, t f “B.

S u ,_ U k, protee you rom ig

d i d n ’ 1 Floyd,” the townsperson
m a k c - -

[h C S C . who likes to drink cases
They sub- of Pabst Blue Ribbon
°°“‘”‘°“=d and has a propensity

out [0 . . ,
T0,,” 5 toward violent crime!
“AA” bat-

teries not

included)

3) Watching out for rapists and other
perverts. There’s been a lot of that
lately.

4) Returning all the confiscated kegs
to East Lex and Kelly’s Comer and

some of Security’s financial records
and statements. l’ni sure I’m not the
only one who would like to see busi-
ness office vouchers that reimburse
Kroger’s pastry department. Maybe
one of these days...

8

LETTERS

Sbar shamelessly plugs his book

"The Sbar Side Special

by Jon Sbar

. Since I am presently locked away in a padded cell for
people who express themselves by drooling and habitually
begin humor columns with prepositional phrases, I decided
to reread the stuff I wrote when I was a.Phi>staffer.~
heavily addicted to grilled ChCCS‘C‘S21l'l(I"\ll/ICI’lCS f romttheiCo-~
, Unfortunately, none of it made any sense. Fortunately,
my writing appeals to dope smokers who quickly forget
everything they read (if we are to believe those public
service television commercials). I wonder ifdope-smoking
writers suffer the same type ofmemory lapses. In any event,
I guess I should mention that I am presently locked away in
a padded cell for people who express themselves by drool-
ing and habitually begin humor columns with prepositional

rases.

Many readers unfamiliar with my rambling style might
wonder what I wrote about during college and whether I
ever dealt with any meaningful issues. Suffice it to say that
I regularly encouraged attractive females to mail me per-
fume-scented photographs of themselves in sexy lingerie.

No one ever sent pictures, but I never quit trying. Any
vﬂ)men still thinking about it should express mail their
photos to the post office box printed on the copyright page
of The Undergraduate Almanac. Speaking of my book, I‘
think it’s time to clear up some questions and concerns
surrounding its publication.

1. Why does the book cover feature an idiotic picture
of you sitting shirtless in a rowboat and what the hell
(ﬂies that have to do with attending college in Virginia?

I’ve come up with some pretty bad ideas in my day, but
even I opposed something so utterly stupid. My oyster-
brained publisher is totally responsible for the cover picture.
I wanted a photo of a sexy blonde woman in a Freiich-cut
graduation gown (I was even willing to comb area high
schools for the right look).

Q Ifmy publisher’s heart was set on a shirtless guy in a row
boat, she should have hired Fabio “Greaseball” Libido, the
long—haried European model on the cover of all the romance

Howison rates top 10 bad things at W&L

paperbacks. Every time I pick up my book, I imagine how

good it would feel to squee/.c the flesh covering my 3

publisher’s tender, white throat.

2. ,Ion, the narrator, comes across as a fun-loving,
testosterone-d riven party animal. .Ion, the Washington
and Lee student, was widely known as a lonely man with
few friends. Could you explain the discrepancy‘?

No one wants to read a book about a stressed-out
neurotic who studies a lot, writes humor for the campus
newspaper and has no respect for modern sanitation prac-
tices.

.» ..-33;.-,l~1raneI.;Iy,, ;'_[7he, Undergraduate: A,ln1anac..is.therau_n- ? I
chiest book~most~of us have ever.nead.(and weall love t .

Jackie Collins)~.«In fact, there’sa rumor that one ofyour
editors described Chapter 17 as a “rambling refuse of
literary masturbation.” What’s your problem?

It’s true my book is chock full ofgratuitous smut. In fact,
I encourage readers to stay far away from anyone who isn’t
offended by the book. A middle-aged woman I used to work
under at a local newspaper put things in perspective for me
after finishing the Almanac. The woman, who is exceed-
ingly prim and proper, warily approached my desk and
declared: “I’ve decided you’re horny and you like big tits.”

4. Have you ever considered writing a gladiator
movie?

No.

5. If we give money to the Annual Fund to help
“grow” the university, how can we be sure our cash will
be spent on athletics, the English Department or the Co-
op and not some Algerian artifact exhibit?

Who cares? I dig ditches for a living, and even I plan on
giving W&L some money the minute I get a checking
account. It’s not our place to question the judgment of the
administration. At least until they decide to annex a Sea
Shell Appreciation Centcroiito Lee Chapel.Theii we should
bum Washington Hall to the ground, tar and feather Presi-
dent Wilson, and sell his office furniture in an enormous
Colonnade Garage Sale.

6. Do you see a psycliiatrist?

Yes, but aren’t we straying from the subject of my book‘?

7. Speaking of your book, will this article include a
shameless plug to promote your Alumni Weekend book
signing on May 8 at 1 p.m. in the University Bookstore?
No, I would never use the Phi for personal gain or profit. Did

I mention the Co-op will give out free bagels during the
signing in honor of my Jewish heritage‘?

  

ic

 
 

Calyx

I The Calyx needs pictures of FD
aitd vacations ASAP. Put them in
the “Candids" envelope outside the
Calyx office no later than Wednes-
day, May I 2. Make sure your name
is on the back so that they may be
returned to you.

Internships

National Iiitcnisliips assists stu-
dents and recent graduates in Wash-
ington D.C. and across the country
in securing career-cnhaiiciiig paid
internships and summer jobs. The
National Internship series has now
expanded to twelve guides that span
the country. All guides are priced at
$7.95 plus S2shippingand handling
per order. For more information,
write to National Internships, PR
Department, 202() Pennsylvania Ave
NW, Suite 336, Washington, DC
20006.

Speech

Students, faculty, and adminis-
tration are cordially invited to hear
W&L Professor of English Emeri-
tus Sidney M. B. Coulling, III ’46,
deliver the keynote address at the
Alumni Reunion Assembly on
Thursday, May 6 at 8:30 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. His speech is titled “Re-
membrance of Things Past: W&L
1939-1988.”

Campus Crusade

Campus Crusade will meet May
12, in C-School room 227 at 6:45
p.m.Thevideo/lMan With0iitEqiial
will be shown.

 

General Notes Compiled by Sarah Wyatt

Horse Show

The Lexington Rotary Club is
sponsoring the 6th Annual Bonnie
Blue National Horse Show on May
12-15 at the Virginia Horse Center
with proceeds going to charity ac-
Iivilies.. The show begins at 7:00
p.ni. each night with an additional
show on Saturday at 9:0() a.m. Ad-
mission is S4.00 per pcrs()it per day
and free for children under I0. For

1'3‘)

more information, call 463-.>-.37.

Debate

The Graham-Lee—Washington
Literary Society will host its second
annual Dinner/Debate on May 19.
The resolution poses the question,
“Does America have the leadership
to successfully enter and remain
powerful in the post- Cold War era?”
The topic will be debated by two
teams of two members each, one
student and one faculty member.
Tickets go on sale nextweek and the
audience will be limited to 100
people.

FOC

The Freshman Orientation Com-
mittee will meet tonight at 6 p.m. in
the Arlington Women’s Center. All
committee members must attend.

Big Siblings

Upperclassmen will be receiv-
ing Adopt—A-Freshman applica-
tions in the mail soon. Freshmen
will get applications delivered to
their rooms.

Fiji president recalls tragedy

imiiie.i:«iii«»:r.s   :1; ,
Spring term is _a time,for'relaxation
at W&L, but this year it should also be
a time of remembrance. As the Sigma
Chi, Delta Tau Delta and Sigma Phi
Epsilon houses near completion, so
does the Fraternity Renaissance Pro-
gram. There has been much acclaim
for the commitment the university has
made to the fratemity system and rightly
so.
But as I have learned, from talking
to many, many students, little is known
about how the Fraternity Renaissance
actually began. I think now is the per-
fect time to tell the story because it
began during spring break, nine years
ago.

Spring break of ’84 was like all
other spring breaks at W&L. Most of
the students left for vacation, but as per
usual, the varsity baseball team re-
mained in Lexington to play several
games. Among them was a young
sophomore named Thomas J. Fellin,
’86.

Fellin was what many would con-
sider a model W&L man. He was a
member of the varsity baseball team, a
sophomore member of Omicron Delta
Kappa, and carried a GPA of over 3.5.
But the one thing that was really sur-
prising about Fellin was that he was 21
Fiji. This is surprising because at the

\ .

J,-.

lime, Ph‘i;Qi3II‘m¢tDS’tIIil Wll$tIOS.$ than  :5
model fratemity, to be polite. In fact,-"..,
. Fiji had an “Animal House” reputa-

tion, and was in danger of losing its
charter. This was not the fraternity in
which one would expccta model W&L
man to be a member. However, the
House Corporation decided to “clean
house” in an effort to save the chapter.
Many brothers were kicked out of the
chapter and Fellin, along with class-
mate Alex Castle ’86, were appointed
co-presidents and handed the task of
getting Fiji back on its feet as a strong
fraternity.

During spring break of ’84, Fcllin
was staying in the Phi Garnm house,
and one other brother who was also a
baseball player, was staying in what is
now the house mother’s cottage. On
the night of April II, 1984, while the
two men were sleeping, a fire was set in
the chapter house.

The fire spread and completely gut-
ted the entire house. All three lloors of
the building collapsed into the base-
ment, the only portions of the house
itself that remained standing were the
front wall on Preston St., and portions
of the side walls on Jackson Ave. Tom
Fellin died in that fire. His body was
found about six feetfrom the side door.
He almost made it out.

Because Fiji was in danger of losing

iis:c_h.étr1er idhe to. its track. ‘record ' bl’
rowdy arid UIl,gG3lAjI-(SlJl2ifl,IryrI)CIlaVIOI', it
would have been easy to just let it fade
away after theifire. But several Phi
Ganini alumni, led by Edward L.
Bishop, ’68, rallied to save the chapter.
They organized the insurance money
and raised more funds from Fiji alumni
to build the house that now stands at
112 W. Preston St.

At the time the university showed
no interest in spending asingle .limc on
the fraternity houses, especially Fiji.
But Ed Bishop followed through, and
with the successful completion and
upkeep of the house in its first years,
the Fijis proved to the university coni-
munity that the renaissance could work.
Had it not been for the tragic death ofa
fellow student, or the overwhelming
commitment of a group ofalumni, the
fraternity renaissance may never have
come about.

So this spring, as we relax and enjoy
Washington term at Goshen, on the
Colonnade, and in the beautiful new
fratemity houses, let us not forget the
great debt we owe to the alumni that
proved it could work, and a fellow
student whose death sadly set the wheels
in motion.

Moke Wolfe, ’94
President, Phi Gamma Delta

Student Body Notice

MY VIEW
By David Howison

. During my first year at Washington and Lee
in 1990, I published a Top Ten List of my most
memorable first impressions of W&L. It was a
“good” list and included the weather in Lexing-
ton, Charles FIood’s book Lee: The Last Years,
Fancy Dress, and W&L’s student leaders. Now,
two years later I’ve decided to provoke a little
c ntroversy (a reporter from the Phi complained
to me recently that there aren’t any student
issues to write about) and publish a Top Ten
List ofthe “bad” things at Washington and Lee.
For better or worse, here it is:

l.Electronic Technology: E-mail,answer-
ifg machines, FAX, beepers, cellular phones,
voice mail, interactive TV, data access sys-
tems, INTERN ET. Ifthese things are supposed
to make our lives easier, whi is everything so
complicated? I miss the old library card catalog
with the stubby pencils and scraps of paper.
Less is more.

D

2. Country Pumpkin Frozen Yogurt: I
love frozen yogurt but where do these strange
flavors come from? Blueberry Fluf f ‘.7 New York
cheesecake? What’s next? Alpine asparagus‘?
My advice to the Co-op and the Dining Hall is
stick with the basics. Vanilla and peanut butter.

O

3. Posters on the Colonnade: The Colon-
nade is a national historic landmark. It should
look like it did in 1850 with Old George ga/.ing
out over the Chapel, not with day—glow llicrs
taped all over the white columns. If Ilicrs are up
there, I’ll take them
down.

teams to academic honors, our women students
are first-class. Why then did not one women run
for a “Big Four” position this year‘? I know it’s
not easy. I know there is still block voting and
men outnumber the women. But there are sim-
ply too many strong
women leaders at

4. Troubadour film
projectors: I helped to
coordinate the renova-
tion of the Troubadour
intoanice,little cinema.
The grand opening in
October was a delight-
ful affair but right after
that, the Troubadour was
hitby Murphy’s Law: If
it can go wrong, it will
go wrong. President
Wilson referred to the
Troubadour as
“Howison’s Folly."
Since then, a lot of
people have worked
hard on this problem and l ./

 

Washington and Lee
not to have a few of
them run for the “Big
Four.”

6. Sickness: Wash-
ington and Lee has an
outstanding Student
Health Center. The
doctors and nurses are
professional, compas-
sionate, and respected
by students. Does that
explain why over
10,000 student visits
are recorded each aca-
demic year iii the
Health Center?
10,000! Why are stu-

progress has been made. /" /“ 4- 4-‘ c dents sick so much‘?
Is it safe to go to a movie
again? 7. The Front
Lawn: After the
5, No Women “Big Four” Candidates; drought of a few years ago, the Front Lawn
W&L women leaders dominate ODK and died. If it’s raining in the spring and after a

Who’s Who. From the sororities to the athletic

mowing, the lawn looks OK, but close inspec-

tion reveals that the green is just a mulch of
twisted weeds. I understand that B&G will be
restoring the Front Lawn this summer. That’s
good news. The lawn should reflect the gran-
deur of the C.oloiiiiade. When the new lawn is
completed, I will move it from my “bad" list to
my “good” list.

8. Rush Rules: Robert E. Lee had one rule:
“Act like a gentleman.” Fraternity rush has I00
rules. Why is this‘?

It is misguided, I think, to attempt to control
behavior by more rules and bigger fines for
breaking the rules. Some hourses actually build
fines into their rush budget, in the same way
they budget for a band. General Lee would not
be amused.

9. Wednesday Night Parties: I know. l’ni
in big trouble with thisoiie. Criticixing Wednes-
day night partics is like critici’/.ing Traveller.
I’m all for having a good time, letting off steam
and taking a break from studying. But every
Wednesday’?

10. The Weather in Upstate New York:
Although this has nothing to do with Washing-
ton Lllltl Lee, I put it on my list because I spent
21 years suffering through God-awful weather
in New York, and I need to be reminded now
and then just how bad it was! (Unfortunatley,
the weather in Lexington this March wasn’t
much better).

Last week the Phi
informed the
campus of the
sexual assaults at
the University of
Virginia at
Charlottesville
and the police
warning to area
campuses.
Composites and
complete
descriptions of the
suspects are

available from
W&L Security.

 

 

W&L speculates about diversity question‘

Diversity, from page 1

must look at it in a broad way,” he said.

Dean of Freshman and Residence Life Deri-
nis Manning agrees that a definition of diver-
sity is important before one can discuss the
issue.

Howison and Manning said someone look-
ing at W&L from a geographic point of view
would say W&L is one of the most diverse
campuses in the country. But, Howison said,
many people today deﬁne diversity as involv-
ing political ideologies and ethnic backgrounds.

‘‘In a lot of ways we have wonderful diver-
sity. We are not as diverse in the modern sense
of the word.”

Howison said the issue of diversity is one
that concerns all college campuses. The Ameri-
can Council on Education conducts a national
survey of college freshmen demographics and
attitudes.The study is based on the responses of
213,630 students at 404 colleges and universi-
ties nation—wide.

One way for universities to tackle the issue
of diversity is through curriculum.

Manning said the primary mission of W&L
is and should continue to be academic excel-
lence.

“I don’t think academic excellence should
be compromised to carry out an agenda,” Man-
ning said. “I think we try as best as we can to
balance that primary mission goal of the insti-
tution with a quest to attract as many different
students as we can.”

However, Associate Dean of Students for
Minority and lnteniational Affairs Anecc
McCloud said W&L’s student body is not as
diverse as student bodies at other universities,
including ones of comparable size.

“Other schools have a higher percentage of
ethnic minorities,” McCloud said.

For some students the lack of diversity has
become unbearable.

Freshman Peter Agelasto said he is transfer-
ring to Colby College in Waterville, Maine
because ofthe lackofdiverse opinions at W&L.

“The thing that really bothers me is the way
people who are different are treated,” Agelasto
said. “I see a lot of people fitting into that old
boy mold. lt’s not that they want to. lt’s that
they get sucked into it.”

Agelasto’s father graduated from W&L in
1962. He said he grew up visiting W&L fre-
quently.

“I grew up in a W&L house,” Agelasto said.
“That familiarity just back fired.”

All of his experiences with W&L did not
prepare him for attending school here, Agelasto
said. He said he never knew so many students
went greek here. Agelasto rushed in the fall and
depledged in January.

Agelasto said his decision to transfer does
not stem from a dislike for W&L.

“Ilove W&Lbut it’s notgiving me thatextra
pan of my college experience,” Agelasto said.

Another freshman cannot understand why
this year’s class is so different from the typical
W&L student.

‘Talking to some of the upperclassmen, it
seems that we’re going against the grain,” Shan-

n o n

Income of W&L parents vs. parents of students in
four-year private institutions

Nave
said. “It
j u st

Under 19,999

s e e m s
we’rean

20,000 to 39,999 

unusual
bunch. l
d o n ’ 1

40,000 to 74,999

75,000 to 99,999

 

k n o w
 w h )’
we’reso
differ-
entfrom

100,000 to 149,999

 

all the
other
classes
or why

I W&L

i

150,000 to 19,999

Over 200,000

  

4yr. Private I h i 5

didn’t

   

. l ' '
0% 5% 1 0%

iilviri

15% 20% 25% 30% 35%

happen
with
them

PC 97
1.00.

E. Nelson St., Lexington

.‘-'1.-*5.»

 

« Hardware, Paint and Related Items 

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 ‘pm.

5“! m‘
I

Su_n_. 1_-5 p.m.
463-2186

   
 

  
  

Barn Apartment for Rent-
For two people in _a private facility.
Stalls, individual turnout, use of -a ring,
jumps and trails. Price negotiable.
Call Nick at 992-1069

Although Nave’s primary reason for trans-
ferring to Case Western Reserve in Cleveland,
Ohio is her major, the lack of social options at
W&L played a part in her decision.

“Socially this is a great party school and it’s
a lot of fun,” she said. “But it’s not for everyone
especially if you’re not into greek life.”

For Agelasto the question of diversity at
W&L is not cut and dry, rather it goes beyond
ethnic minority ratios and fratemities.

“l don’t think W&L is very diverse, but I
don’t think it has anything to do with minority
ratios,” Agelasto said.

McCloud, who agrees with Agelasto, said
diversity applies to racial, ethnic, gender reli-
gious, sexual preference and socio—economic
groups.

Catcgorizing by groups is dangerous, she
said.

“lt’s wrong to assume that every member is
the same as every other member of a group,”
McCloud said. “You will have diversity within
a group.”

According to Associate Director of Admis-
sions Dan Murphy, the admissions policy has
not changed in the last several years. Admis-
sions is still using the same criteria they always
have, Assistant Director of Admissions Nancy
Hickam said. Academic achievement is the
most important qualification an applicant can
have, she said.

The role admissions can play in diversifying
the university is narrow, according to Hickarn.

“You can’t say we’re going for a diverse
applicant pool,” Hickam said. “We can’t con-
trol who applies. We always make an effort to
attract more minorities.”

Hickam, a 1990 graduate, began working as
an admission counselor that July. Co-education
has caused the greatest changes at W&L since
she was a freshman, I-Iickam said.

“When you have a single-sex school and go
co-ed you attract a different type of student,”
Hickam said. “A number of the attitudes have
changed. [Co-education has] done a lot for the
school.”

Many have claimed that admissions was
attempting to recreate the W&L experience by
changing the make—up of this year’s freshmen
class. Associate Dean of Students Anne C.
Schroer-Larnont, however, attributes the dif-
ference to changing national values.

“The admission office didn’t go out looking
for a diverse group of students they could bring
to W&L to change things. In fact, we‘re still
recruiting the same pool of students,” she said.
“This is a national trend which indicates a
change in student values.”

In the eight years that Schroer-Lamont has
been at W&L,the university has undergone a

9wEri=uit,..cHAHrEins,..    

Vacation Sailing Adventures

(305) 949-2380 ,
Let Frank and Anne Show you the Bahamas. We’ll take
you sailing, sight-seeing, snorkeling, and more. Come
vacation with us in the Bahamas.

Family Tours . . . Groups of Friends . . . Educational Trips

 

   

The Ring-tum Phl, May 6, 1993 ’

considerable trans-
formation. Neverthe-
lcss, after the first
class of women,
change appeared to
come to a standstill.

100%

“When the first 90:/0
class of women came 80 /°
in they we re prepared 7°°/°
to be part of the 50% lb
change. The six 50%
classes after them 40%
thought the change 30% I W8-L
wasdonc. ltwaslrus— 20% D 4y,,pm,ate
tratirig for the few
women who were try- ‘°°/°
ing to provide leader- 0% 9
ship for change,” she  § .5 8 E

. . ~-- '0 .9 --
said. “ln the six § 3 5 as 3
classes in between, 3 -2: § 5
the women tried to as-   
similate. They would 5 < ‘‘

try to fit in and per— '
form and behave like

Class of 1996 Racial Background vs Fresh-
men at four-year private institutions

 

P9

the men.”

Schroer-Lamont views this year’s freshmen
class as harkenin g back to the role of those first
women on campus.

“This year’s freshmen came on board and
they began to question what was going on here.
They were doing a level of independent think-
ing that was refreshing," said Schroer-Larnont.
“The freshmen that I see are still really ques-
tioning things spring term.”

Some members of the W&L community
fear rapid change will cause a loss of traditions.
Others believe change is the only path for the
university to take.

“A lot of people on campus, and who are
affiliated to Washington and Lee, tend to hold
on to tradition. I don’t think that is bad,”
McCloud said. “Tradition has it’s place. Some
of the things that are held on to have been
misperceived and tncrclore have been perpetu-
ated as to that misperception.”

When she was offered her current job seven
years ago, McCloud said, she had to evaluate
how she would feel as an African—American
woman, who grew up in the South, working at
W&L. She said she researched the founding of
W&L and the ideologies behind it.

“General Lee was a person who was able to
change with the times,” McCloud said. “When
it was his time to serve the South, he did so to
the bestofhis ability. When the war was over he
saw it was time for the nation to heal. lt’s all you
can ask ofa person ——that they change with the
times.”

Even proponents of tradition think change is
is possible without sacrificing principles.

   
   
 
  

-~_....._'s_.-._——2...

    
   

I

“[W&L has a] much stronger commitment
to tradition and stronger resistance to change,”
Howison said. “Adherence to tradition is a
positive thing. But as the world changes you
have to realize there are things you can change
without compromising our values.” '

McCloud said misperceptions about Lee
could be why the W&L community appears
resistant to change.

“Some of the credit or discredit, whichever
way you want to say it, that has been attributed
to Gen. Lee for the perpetuation of a homoge-
neous campus is perhaps unfair to him, andds
perhaps due to what people have read into his
position as one of the founders [of W&L],”
McCloud said.

Second—Year Law student Bob Tompkins

said W&L is only homogeneous on the surface.
“Someone who is willing to look deeper will

find diverse elements,” Tompkins said. “ltgs
subtler here.”

Tompkins was a member of the first under-
graduate co-ed class. He said he thinks W&L
has always had diverse elements.

James Rambeau, Class of ‘9l and ’94L,
thinks W&L began undergoing a fundamental
transformation two years ago. .

“Although this year‘s freshmen class has
made an impact. lt‘s really the Class of ‘94 that
was a stark contrast to typical traditional W&L
students,” he said.

During his undergraduate years, Rambeau
said he “could never have envisioned someone
initiating an ACLU or starting an AIDS Educa-
tion project” but both of those have occurrdd

u—....._

,For Rentizti I 
In Lexington, available June 15
4 B.R. home, 3 B.R. home,

1 B.R. duplex apt. Call Mike
Flint at Whiteside Realty 463-1187 .

  

 

 

 
   

Three months till summer; do you have a job?
Resumes - Cover Letters - Flyers - Copies - Binding
Come see us -- we’ll make you look good!

‘I’

 

PHONE: 463 - 1712 -

FAX: 463 - 6918
125 w..Ni-1.soN STREEI‘ - LEXINGTON - ACROSS FROMTHEPOST OFFICE

at 464-1 142

For Sale -.
1990 Mustang Convertable LX 5.0
Racing Green, White top & Leather,
All Options, 14,000 miles, always
garaged. As new.

9 a.m. — 5 p.m. daily

 

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for interested and enthusiastic
people to fill positions as Production Manager, Copy
Editors, Photographers, Reporters, and Humor Columnists.

See the World  Join the Phi

Call Fran at the office - 463-8581

or at home

- 464-3757

’:'D'.‘V/.‘N'W3§€4'¢¢<'X0§5M7."D'P'55O5$?.'*5' %WFR4ﬁPéﬁXb% &W@%Z“5ﬂ$#DM$)M¢§b

'-I ,¢‘¢‘((9 

 

 

‘ - - ‘-‘W-‘-‘~:-‘ -.='°'-‘3:=:>'. .5.-.-'¥'>"-:°<~' a»e.vx~:-Nata-:-zen-' ~'-swc-:-.-t.\:- -.-:+.¢t»:<-:~i:4<~"‘°‘uc-a:¢m«oc- 
  .-i=3r-:-:-:r-:<r«rz.<'z\'~:='-:s'-:-:t='.-:r.vr-:.'m-:-:-:-1-:-:2::-:«ra-rrzzccz-:-:-:z¢:-3-ta:-:mz~z-:v-'2=:az ..:-.«.u_e,_
‘ Q

 

heﬁing-tum Phi, May 6, 1993

' Unhappy students examine traditional attitudes

W&L Freshmen Political Leanings
1991

Conservative

Average

Conservative

\ / The Ring-tumPlti;;';..=.;  
93 welcomes returning alumni

W&L Students,

Ideal Barber Shop ,0

'22 S. Main St., Lexington - Below First American Bank   .
mmm%.mx'emwtx'&%.~»mw-.u \*&& ~:-.ewmtu\\;

S E
Avatlables

\\.

§Stude f Apartments
_ 4 3-1521

"'\Yx‘*h"\ ‘\\‘\\‘\\‘\‘§\"\\\‘\\\\‘£\\\\\\

' .I?'dr.’/2'I.’I.'/

Dear Abby,
I had two brothers. One of them went to
Hampden-Sydney College and the other went to the
0 electric chair. Now I have met a nice girl and we plan
to be married. My problem is should I tell her about my
brother who went to Hampden-Sydney?

We all have our problems, but CRAFTS PLUS
can solve yours when it Comes to Crafts and
‘ hobbies.

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES
31 South Main Street, Lexington 463-3355

we we come you to our Bar er hop or;
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers. A 

. /

DO You ENJOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

F0Baek vard skeet is fun. but compared to Snorting Clavs
i1’5 bggring
At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
it to enjoy a round.
Call for a free brochure 463-I800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

since he graduated.

Agelasto said controversial groups like the
ACLU would help stimulate student opinions

‘‘I’m a proponent of controversy. There’s so
much of that same old same old [at W&L],”
Agelasto said. ”Academically it’s so unhealthy.”

Agelasto said student apathy is one cause for
what he believes is a lack of diverse opinions.

“It's horrible how uninterested students are
in something that could lead to a fire,” he said.

Tompkins said he sometimes gets frustrated
with student apathy, but he does not think
extremist groups on campus are the answer to
student apathy or diversity.

‘‘I don’t know that the only way to obtain
diversity is to allow extremist and one—sided
groups that pop up," Tompkins said.

However, Agelasto said his desire to see
change at W&L is not enough to make him
finish his college education here.

“I had an attack of selfishness,” Agelasto
said.“You can stay and try to change things, but
you need an army. 1 don’t think the revolution
is here yet.”

Despite the attempts that may have been
made in an effort to expose the W&L commu-
nity to differing viewpoints, Rambeau thinks
many students remain uninterested and defen-
sive about changes.

“Outside of the classroom, free thought is
inhibited. Free discussion just doesn‘t happen
here,”Rambeau said.

Rambeau, like Schroer-Lamont, feels this .

year’s freshmen class has been willing to ques-
tion many of the things that other classes had
simply taken at face value.

“They’re thinking about differentthings and
they’re rethinking [things such as] the whole

~ fratemity thing as evidenced in the 20 or so who

depledged,” he said. “That never would have
happened my year.”

Although W&L provided him with a strong
academic grounding, Rambeau nevertheless
felt socially stifled in an environment where
there was “too much pressure too conform. One
of the prevailing viewpoints is to survive so-
cially you need to belong to a fraternity.”

Rambeau though does not think true diver-
sity will come to W&L anytime soon. “ W&L
isn‘t ready for this change. The alumni have not
advocated [for diversity] and they are not com-
mitted to making this change.”

“We don‘t want to be too aggressive in
[getting] minorities here because of certain
pressures from alumni and certain students on
campus, ” Rambeau said. “They‘re quite eon-
tentto bring in 15-20 blacks, 5 asians, 1 chicano,
hispanic or native american a year.”

“It‘s still a lily-white institution; 95% ofthis

campus is white. Whether that is good or had,
W&L needs to evaluate.”

Any changes occurring at W&L will be
slow. i

Manning said W&L is not rellective of na-
tional diversity, but he said the process of
diversifying the university will be slow.

‘‘It would be nice, it would be ideal, if we
could wave a magic wand and attract minority
students or other kinds of diverse students,”
Manning said. “But it doesn’t just happen that
way. ”

“lt’s an evolutionary process,” Manning said.
“We may be a little earlier in this evolutionary
cycle than other schools.”

Any changes made at W&L should take into
consideration the entire W&L community.

“As small as Washington and Lee is, it is a
very complex institution in that it consists not
justof students, faculty and administrators who
are located on the campus, but also the Board of
Trustees, Alumni and friends of the
university,” McCloud said.

“In considering all of these different groups
we have to realize we can't go about making
changes without taking them into consider-
ation.”

But, many believe the process of change
must continue.

McCloud and Rambeau both said diversi-
fying the campus and attracting students who
are different is something the university must
work on.

“The university has to work on its outward

experience and tell people that other types of
viewpoints are tolerated here,” Rambeau said.
“The professors do a stellar job making that
obvious. ()utside of the classroom, it‘s a prob-
lem seeped in tradition.”

“l really don’t know how [we] can say
“you‘re welcome here” to those who are not the
traditional W&L student,” Rambeau said.

Agelasto’s transferring is a signal Rambeau
said cannot be ignored. ,

“When you see the Freshmen E.C. Rep
leaving, and his dad is an alum who serves on
the Board of Trustees, there is obviously a
serious problem with the way things are done
on this campus,” Rambeau said.

McCloud said the time for changes at W&L
is approaching. ’

“Washington and Lee can not remain the
same indefinitely,” McCloud said. “By the be-
ginning of the next century at least one-third of
college-age population will consist of African-
Americans, Hispanics, Asian-Americans,
American Indians etc.”

Rambeau said that many opponents of di-
versity argue that “W&L should remain unique
to itself.” '

“They think attracting different kinds of
students will lower the academic standards and
that’s just not accurate. In the long run, [such a]
change will be good for W&L.”

Howison said all the debate about diversity
is healthy for the university.

‘‘It would be a boring world and a boring
college if we all agreed with one another.”

Raise taxes to
reduce delicit
Abortion should be
legal

Marijuana should be
legal

Prohibit homosexual
relations

Employers can
require drug tests
National health

care plan needed
racial

no longer a problem
individual can

to change society
wealthy should pay
more taxes

Prohibit

sexist speech

W &;L Freshmen Opinions on National Issues vs Freshmen at four-year
Private Institutions

Somewhat or strongly agree with . . .

0% 10% 20°/. 30°/. 40°/. 50°/. 50% 70°/. 80% 90%

I W&L Males

Q W&L Females

I 4 yr. Priv. Males
4yr. Priv. Females

Four Bedroom house for w.r;et;tt. . ,

for ‘riext ‘setio61‘y”éaf 

To the Women’s L T - C

Back to Back!
Congrats!

Best of Luck to Lisa, Lisa, Ginny, and Paige
- the Ripkens

l-v.--t

IIIIIIIIIIIIII

«tel W” 

Please join us for a

[ BOOKSIGN~1l§t€}.=.PARTY

at the University Bookstore
on Saturday, May 8th

A whole group of distinguished
W&L authors will be with us . . .
12 to 12:45 p.m.

. Charles Com ‘58
Distant Islands: Travels Across Indonesia

Susan Tifft and Alex Jones ‘68
The Patriarch: The Rise and Fall of the
Bingham Dynasty

1 to 2:30 p.m.
Ted Blain ‘74

and

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS
' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

11 W. Nelson Street Robby Jones

E[l'_C

Welcome AI

Love C ools and Pas.s‘ion Play
and

Jon Sbar ‘9l

The Undergraduate Almanac:
A Law Life Guide to Higher Education

115 ,
mn1.'

Suﬁsand

Alumni Special

20% OFF

Sportcoats

Suits and Coats by Haspel, Oritsky, & Bowdon

Sero Shirts

Shoes by Bass, Walkover, & Topsider

Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek, & Duckhead
Duckhead Shorts and Pants

Ray-Ban Sunglasses

W&L Belts, Ties, Keychains, Dog Collars
Red Wing Boots

Embassy Boxers

W&L Blazer Buttons

Since 1963
(703) 463-5383
9- 5:30 Monday- Saturday
10- 3 Sunday May 9th

Mastereard

r: r 1

Student Charge

nﬂﬂcﬂri-lt3EE-JEI'JﬂrJrJrJr1i'JrJtJr-IrJrJrJr-lrJr«!rJc-lrJrJr‘!

 

W&L authors
return for
book signing

FROM STA]-‘l~‘ RliP()R’l‘S

The University Bookstore will be
sponsoring a book signing party Sat-
urday, May 8 welcoming four Wash-
ington and Lee authors for Alumni
Weekend.

Charles Corn ’58, author of Dis-
tant lslands: Travels /lcross Indone-
sia and Susan Tifft and Alex Jones
’68, authors of The Patriarch.‘ The
Rise and F all of the Bingham Dynasty
will be signing copies of their books
trom 12 to 12:45 pm.

Ted Blain ’74,author of Love Cools
and Passion Play, and Jon Sbar ’91,
author of The Undergraduate Alma-
nac: /1 Law Life Guide to Higher
Education will sign copies of their
books from 1 to 2:30 p.m.

Com, who became an editor and
journalist after leaving W&L, wrote
about his journey through the Malay
Archipelago, a chain of islands that
lie between Australia and Southeast
Asia. Traveling through Indonesia
by train, bus, and on foot, Corn en-
countered a variety of people ranging
from the transvestites of Jakarta to
Sumatran medicine men, whom he
describes in his book.

Tiff t and J ones won aPulitzer Prize
for their coverage of the Bingham
family of Louisiana, who were to
American journalism what the
Kennedys were to American politics.
The book is based on years of re-
search and interviews with members
of the Bingham family.

Blain, currently the chairman of
the English department at Woodberry
Forest School in Virginia, wrote two
books about murder and mystery at
the Montpelier School for Boys.

Sbar, currently on a promotional
tour from Florida to Alaska, satirizes
college life in his book based on his
experiences at W&L.

There will be a second book sign-
ing party on Monday, May 10 from 2
to 3 p.ni. to welcome William Styron,
author ofSophie’s Choice, and Willie
Morris, author of North Toward Home.
Styron and Morris will also read from
their work in Lee Chapel on Monday
at 7:30 p.m.

F

Lexingt

FEATURES

0
The Fling-tum Phi, May 6, 1993 .

Ex-humor columnist
embarks on Cirrhosis Tour

By ll‘)/\.\'.\'l~l BRIGGS
Phi Features Editor

J()11Sbﬂr, humor columnist, con-
struction worker, and graduate of
Washington and Lee, returns this
weekend to sign copies of his book
The Undergraduate /llmanac.‘ /1 Law
Life Guide to Higher Education in the
W&L bookstore and join in the
Alumni Weekend festivities.

Sbar’s book is a ‘humorous de-
scription of the college experience,
which is based on his years as a stu-
dent at W&L.

While Sbar was at W&L he was a
popular humor columnist for The
Ring-tum Phi.

Since the publication of his book
Sbar has been touring Florida pro-
moting it, speaking at high schools
and appearing at college bookstores.

“lliketocallmytourtheCirrhosis

 
  
 
 
  
 

 

Tour,” Sbar said. “l’ve made a lot of
side trips along the way to Mardi Gras,
Fancy Dress, and basically spent the
whole time drunk.”

Sbar said, “I was supposed to go up
to the University of Alaska for some

weird festival, but I have this fear of

ﬂying,” Sbar said. “It was the middle
of winter, and l was going to drive, but
the reaction I got at Triple A was, ‘Are
you cra'/.y‘.7’” '

Sbar is planning a trip out to the
West Coast and Alaska in the coming
year.

He has also been occupying his time
by writing for community newspapers
in his home state of Florida and work-
ing for a construction company.

Sbar said, “There’s not that many
places to write humor. I followed a
circus around fora local newspaper for
awhile.”

He said that he could probably write
a construction worker’s almanac from
his experiences.
He called con-

truction workers
. “an interesting
_ . breed ofpeople.”

“The funny
., thing is that they
E’ 5 look down on
». me,” he said.

Sbar said that
he is currently

orking on a de-
tective novel, and
discussed the
possibility of
writing a sequel
to his book, “a
ort of Post-
Graduate Alma-
nac” he said.

“I set myself
up for a sequel at
the end of the
book. The narra-
tor is left in a
— coma after being
stabbed by the
love of his life.”

Sbar said that

by saying, “My true career goal is to
avoid anytype ofhoiiesteniploynient.”

The reactions he has gotten to the
first book have been mostly positive,
he said.

“High school students really enjoy
it, and anyone who has been to college
likes it because that’s exactly how col-
lege is.”

Sbar said, “Some people are dis-
turbed by how explicit the book is.”

“I write the real story. My philoso-
phy is that you can’t write for anyone.
My mother was a little embarassed, but
if I had it to do over again, l’d write it
the same way,”he said.

Sbar described his book as very
accessible, and added, “lt’s nice to see
people reading who wouldn’t other-
wise. l’ve had people tell me my book
was the first book they’ve read cover to
cover besides Dr. Seuss.”

Sbar said that he was excited about
returning to W&L for his booksigning.
He said that his plans for Alumni Week-
end include a Saturday morning alumni
water polo game, and a return visit to
his fraternity, Pi Kappa Alpha.

He called Alumni Weekend “an-
other excuse to wear a coat and tie, not
that anyone at W&L needs an excuse to
wear a coat and tie. So I’ll be there in
a coat and tie.”

“Actually, I'm going to streak
around campus naked and get stinking
drunk at my booksigning,” Sbar
laughed.

Sbar added that he was very grateful
to the Bookstore for helping him pro-
mote his book.

“The ladies at the Bookstore have
been really good about promoting my
books, and l appreciate that,” he said.

‘‘I promise the Washington and Lee
community that 1 will always put the
fact that I graduated from W&L on my
bookjackets, unlike some people whose
names I won’t meiition...Toni Wolfe.
l’m very proud of my association with
W&L,” Sbar said, “and 1 would never
only put that I went to Yale for gradu-
ate school likeTom Wolfe does, mainly
because I couldn’t get into Yale.”

Women’s clothing.

Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive

order houses. New shipments Every Week!_

Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear. :

Famous knit to s for women - iegularlyi$18 -

Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99

   Do You

   
 
  
 
  

 

  



. _ cI‘§.I'a'

 
 
  

  

 

       
   
   
   
       
   

Alum opens
new vineyard ,
in Raphine

By li-‘.A.\1\‘i-1 Biuoos /,
Phi Features Editor ‘

For wine connossieurs and enthusiasts, there is a new vineyard here in
the Lexington area. - ‘

Rockbridge Vineyard, established by Shepard and Jane Ross in nearby
Raphine, offers an alternative to French and California wines. The wine
produced at 9
the vineyard,
w h i C h
opened on
May 1, is
made from a
F r e n c h -
A m e r i c a n
hybrid grape-
vine known
as Vidal.

S h e p
Ross, who
g r a d u ate d
from Wash-
ington and
Lee in ’76,
received his
degree in
enology, or
w ine-mak-
ing, at the University of Califomia-Davis. He worked as a winemaker in the
Napa Valley of California before moving to the Rockbridge area in November
of last year.

Jane Ross said that she and her husband purchased the old Mynes Dairy
Farm outside Raphine five years ago, and they planted five acres of vines

“The vines have to be at least three years old,” Ross said. “Our vines go
into their fifth year in June. This will be our third harvest, and our ’92 vintage

will be our first wine made with Rockbridge grapes.” ,
Ross said that she and her husband market the blended table wine to area‘

stores and restaurants. '

“I just got back from the Stauiiton Kroger’s,” she said. “Our wine is
available at the Lexington Kroger’s as well.”

“Virginia wines are only getting better,” Ross said. “We’re getting to know
what grapes grow best in what areas, and certain wineries are getting a good
reputation. Virginia wines tend to be very subtle and elegant.”

 

Ross said that she has found the people in Virginia to be very supportive I

of home industries.
“Our opening was very successful —~ all of our neighbors came out to
support us,” Ross said. “We’ve found the response to be very encouraging.”
Rockbridge Vineyard is open to the public, and the Ross family offers tours

    
     
     
 

 

 
 

 

. his career goal is Sbar will be at the W&L Bookstore and wine~tasting Thursday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
‘ ' ' ' ' F ' F F F ‘ L ’ 0' to write humor, on Saturday May 8 from l—2:3()p.m. to The vineyard is located on route 606, off ofroute 81 at exit 205, 1.1 miles
Jon Sbar but qualified that sign copies of his book. past the town of Raphine. For more information call (703) 377-6204. g
\ 1 1 Want to sta in Lexin ton this
HOUSE For Rent 2  Y g
4 Bedroom 512 Bath ‘ {L 3 0 Summer?   1
7 — ' Mellow ‘ob ﬂexible hours $350 4
. at LEE-HI J > a 3
7    Breakfagt BuffetF[-iday & Saturday month - 4 and 6 110111‘ days. YO1.1’d
on On Route 11, Nf,f1}1‘_tU1_éaf’ri‘%-a:°$fLg-;T1- better love kids, there are 5, (Yes,
 per mgnth, Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m.to 2 5 of tglgénl Opportunlty to earn
p.m. All—U-Can Eat $4.99 more - . Picture ourself in The '
1 IIlOl'ltl1 free OVBI‘ Wednesday Night BBQ Night —choice of S d f M ° y -th t th
potato & Vegetable OLLTL . 0 ' .LtSI,C, WI 011 9
Summer 1/2Racl< —$5.99 Who1eRack- $ 10.95 maI1S10I1, Slnglngs 01" m0n€Y-
- ° Saturday Night Prime Rib Call LuAnne at 463-963
K0311   anytllnej Queen Cut $11.95 King Cut $13.95 6 “
'==— . Breakfast, Lunch,’ and Dinner served ‘j-“
24 hrs. a day. Welcome
. 4 miles North on Route 1 1 -W&L
_ We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice and , _ «
A - 3 hell Alumni and Friends .
OU'l'LE'I'S  r so ~  
. , ‘ R. E. Lee Memorial Church
§“éi2.“.i‘§ZiF2i’i°§‘i.o‘*f§‘§33‘i“%.Y§%‘£‘i$i;‘c‘3‘&¥.iW°”’ mow§s'hm‘i531‘co‘ue“ge <EpiW1> 1  
P ’ ' ’ signed “R.E. Lee”  May 9’  o
merchandise from America’s‘ most famous mail ' F tzh h I£S1gnatur€S1£E Le J
i . . , . . .. ,
 A V M_ M‘f1%y C John Letihé Guest Prmchert The RightReverend Philip Turner, 58
In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous Edward Valentme D33“ Oi B€Ik€1€Y D1V1“1t)’ 5011001 3lY31€
V 0 W&L Copperplate, hand—colored ' V _ _ .
There are reductions from 25 _  on Men,s and 1 W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art. 8330311], I.-Ioly Eucharist (RV1te~I).
Maryiiciilcipdgggeyxtligghiiilgriiijrgiieces Gumt Celebrarligtz Elie  Rd(i!\I’)€l‘€nd [Charlie McNutt, ‘53
' is opo tr emisy vania
Now $3.00. Se eeted Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00. 103011“ H01 Euchamt (Rite H)
0’ i . ﬁetygsgglggofsgtreét Guest Celebrant: The  Reverend Sam B. Hulsey, ‘53 .
Lexington _.   I“ U  (703) 45435454 Bishop of Northwest Texas
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.) ' , - . 0
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30  l l   ?(I))(3r,i3d:§3(]) i3‘.Snaiiurda,y_ 5i)0p.m. Holy Eucharist (Rite ll)
703-463-9730 5 K ' r r J 1 .
Want VISA 8: MasterCard Credit Cards? 5: STUDENT sERvicEs.iiox 1792lI.PLANTATl0N.FL 3331 : "(rot 5 _
Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  I I W O ERCARD¢ Cred I GAUDIO _I‘/‘DEG 
~ accepted credit cards In the world...Vlsa® and MastcrCard® l . Wm“ SA /MAST . " I '
CW1" Cardﬁ--"1" YOU!’ “amt-" EVEN 1'’ YOU ARE NEW ‘N’ l Cards. Endosed find 65 which is 100% refundable If not I 25:3?‘ 5 ifgge
     -
deserve and need for— lD—BOOEKS—DEPAN}LT’?:1b%.§T 3  3 5 '3(os‘roN o5i=[i)Nrrive .
STORES-—TUlTlON— NTERTAI —  KLIPSCH BAZOOKA
9  3 ADDRESS   . 1 :
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY “ STATE _. ZIP | : g,§§,'g,‘;‘;LELR'*V§;§°ENCg§,';;§WENT
Mﬁgoi   : PHONE  5-..s_s,« : ::.':::.R:'::.r.9:.'.:“rs.2:a.. '
°"" sﬁ,c.aug No credit _ I SIGNATURE I (800) 468-6667. ;
“5|tlV‘:‘¢f_D “:1 N0 SECUTHSY d8D0$1t! ' norrz: Mmacmi Isl mgmmamaemnidu-caoiniinmnuiomiim ' comerofogdenagstarkey Road; '
“unl; 0.51 IF - Va] ab I ccd I Visa Is 3 u.-gisieiui anaemia ofVlSA usa. Inn and VISA imen-uomi I o.,,,t.,.,i.;,.g T.,.9i.,.,,,°d M."
‘ ol APPFO 50 Ulcly guannt 50 | Senna: Anocldlon. 100% OUARANTEED! | 2750 Ogden Road-Roanoke
 7' ‘

 

 

 

Q
The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1993

By Mi\1'f Dll.l.r\Rl)
Phi Staff Writer

-1

Two years ago, one of the most
revered and loved professors at Wash-
ington and Lee retired.

This week, Sidney Coulling, Pro-
fessor of English Emeritus, is return-
i v for Alumni Weekend celebrations,
and will present a speech titled “Re-
membrance of Things Past.”

“Washington and Lee has the best
ofeverything,” Coulling said. “My stu-
dents and colleagues were intelligent
and conscientious, and the climate and
the honor system are both wonderful.”

‘My final three years at W&L were
the most pleasurable,” Coulling said.
“I was able to teach my favorite classes
in 19th century British poetry and prose.
It was nice to leave feeling so good
about my stay at W&L.”

Coulling first came to W&L as a
stt!‘tlent in 1942. His undergraduate
years were interrupted by service in
World War II, postponing his gradua-
tion until 1948.

After attending graduate school at
University of North Carolina at Chapel
H"ll, Coulling was offered a position
teaching English at W&L and gladly
returned in 1956.

Coulling is most interested in early
British literature and is impressed by
the six Romantic poets and the major
Victorian authors.

“Blake, Wordsworth, and Keats
ha?/e always been favorites of mine,”
he said, “and I enjoy Dickens, George
Eliot, and Hardy.”

Coulling’s speech will discuss “the
experiences of ten different classes,
the oldest of which were freshmen in
1939 and the youngest of which gradu-
ated in 1988,” he said. “I want to dis-
cuss 50 years of W&L history and
bring these ten classes into the various
social and athletic events of W&L in
those years.”

“Changes here do not take place
until there has been a great clamor for
them. There were people calling for
coeducation in the very first years of
the l9()0’s,” Coulling said.

“in my view, the university has
maintained a real connection with the
past. it has endured evolution, and has
embodied its evolution in tradition,”

. he said.

Sidney Coulling

“The honor system,
so much a part of W&L
tradition, is one of the
most remarkable things
about the University,”
Coulling said.

“For over one hun-
dred years, professors
have been able to walk
out of the classroom dur-
ing exams.”

“The changes have
been for the overall good
of the University,” he
said. “For instance, in
any number of ways, the
recent performance of
Mendelssohn’s Elijah
would never have been
possible even ten years
ago. [have enjoyed more
the increased attention
to the arts.”

Students of Coulling
continue to admire him
as a teacher and as a
member of the W&L
community.

Susan Moseley ’93,
who recently finished

Popular professor ponders W&L past I

studying for English comprehensives,
said, “Those of us who had Coulling
remembered everything he taught us
since freshman year. He is a wonderful
man.”

“He is one of the finest oralors I’ve
ever heard,” Phil Spears, ’93, said.

“His lectures were always flawless
and moving, and he never used lecture
notes. He made learning English excit-
ing,” Spears said.

Andrea Cardamone, ’93, said, “He
has an incredible memory. He just
pulled things out ofthe air. He seemed
to have memorized every Romantic
poem.”

“He was really approachable, and a
very dignified gentleman,” she said.

Scott Smith, ’93, said, “The man
had incredible presence. The way he
spoke was amazing. He sounded as if
he was reciting a speech and never
stuttered.”

“ I was in the last class he taught,”
Smith said. “He finished the class with
John Keats’ poem “To Autumn,” and
about half the class cried because it
was so moving.”

“Professor Coulling was an amaz-
ing teacher,” reflected Caroline Clarke,
’93. “He was a challenging teacher,
but I never felt intimidated because he
did everything he could do to help
students.”

“He’s the best teacher I’ve had and
the reason why I’m an English major,”
Clarke said.

Coulling will speak in Lee Chapel
on Thursday at 8:30 p.m to begin
Alumni Weekend festivities.

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Kind
5 Postage sticker

10 Potato

14 Aleutian island
15 Tall slender

building
16 Horse
17 A place, in
retrospect

19 Aquatic plant
20 Sixth sense
21 Associate

22 Agriculturist
24 Reciines

25 Set of actors
26 Way of entry
29 One's familiar

area

33 Aspect

34 Drills

35 Needlefish

36 Fishing poles
37 Trousers

38 countenance
39 Anger

40 Meditates

41 Deck officers
42 Learned

44 Gaited horses
45 Sharp blows
46 Portion

47 Salad plant
50 Clubs

51 Metal container
54 Raring to go
55 Legislature

building

58 Manufacture
59 Dined

60 Competent

61 Toboggan

62 Expanded

63 Clarinet tongue

DOWN

1 Identical

2 Lyric poems

3 Sloping
roadway

4 Boxing decision

5 Fashions

6 Sounds a ball

7 Absent

8 Human beings

9 Introduces. in a
way

_ 13 Cherished

7

 

@1993 Tribune Media Services. Inc.

All Right: Reserved

10 "Wise"
conceited
person :

11 Part of the hand

12 Entreat

18 Lift

23 Inquires
24 Smaller amount
25 Groceries '

vehicles

26 Spring month
27 Task

28 West Point

student

29 Studied hard
30 Game marble
31 Speed car

32 Frock

34 Foundations
37 Intentions

38 Actuality

40 Solid food

41 Swampy tract
43 Bartered

44 Inventor's right
46 Thin ﬂat disk

1

05/06/93
Last Week’s Puzzle Solved
SLAB BEAIMS SPEW
COTE URBAN COLE
ARON LIANA HOSE
REPTILE ORDERED
_ ERE CREAM
SEMESTER STEPIN
OVAL IVE ERASE
_R__A_N SNEAKED LEE
EDICT TIES FORD
SEALED ERTHUSES
ARIAS EER
REFINER PENNAN_'|'_
ATOM TOTEM AGEE
PAR EMOTIE CARD
SLED RATEJD EROS
04/30/93

47 Scottish caps 52 Capri, e.g.

48 Elliptical 53 Something

49 Emcee's item lacking

50 Reduce the 56 Spigot

force 57 Rowing
51 Hollow cylinder implement

 

   

 

in Get Somebody Totally Wasted!
7/it/‘(fl/If/tilt‘,
' . ”"“A/If fliflf
FRIENDS l]llN’l [El FRIENDS Ulllllf llllllNK

0‘ oudale-K-Diamond‘ R acki'

Jansport daypacks and book bags

  1 on Bike  “

 

Mon.-liri. 9-5/Sat. '9~12 Noon ‘

  
  
    

  

        
 

All Wiiiré

\\\ 

; i2'3N,. Main st.‘ 
g — Lexin ton, VA 24450
///////////////////////

  
  
   

   

- Great Location

463-3013, Monday thru Friday.

 

apps

, iM¢rahandis,e  1 I ,-
50%: i

/1

Apartment for Rent

Catering to W&L Students — Two Bedroom apartment for
rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk from the
W&L campus. $160 per month, per bedroom. $320 per
month for the unit. Including 1 free parking space next to
apartment and only 1/2 block from campus.

- Landlord pays for water, including hot water
If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown, at

o»

(703) 463-5988

463-7969 4

 

\

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

 

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

 HEATRE

AT WASHINGTON AND LEE
presents

BECCA

A MUSICAL FANTASY

Caring. stable single female
school teacher desires to
adopt a baby. Financially secure.
Can provide loving & fun family.
Call collect 804-572-8403 or
write P. O. Box 655, South Boston,
VA 24592.

" 'NlT~lTERNATlCl§lAL 
EMPLOYMENT

Make money teaching basic
conversational English abroad.
Japan 8: Taiwan. Make up to

    

Many provide room 8: board +
other benefits! No previous
training or teaching certificate
required! For employment
rogram call:
(206) 632-1146 Ext. JS342

$2,000 to $4,000+ per month.

YOU DON'T HAVE
TO DRINK
TO RIDE DRUNK.

Medicine can affect your balance, co
ordination. and vision as much as
alcohol. After drinking or taking med-
ication, don't ride.That’s

the best safety prescription.
MOTORCYCLE SAFETY FOUNDATION e

Join ﬂecca on tﬁe adventure of her life and cﬁeerfor ﬂer - DON'T {M155 PT!

May 2022 at 7:00 P
May 22 & 23 at 2:00 PM

KELLER THEATRE 0
Tickets & Reservations 0 463-8000 0 Noon - 4 PM 0 Monday thru Friday

LENFEST CENTER

  
 

x... cm . -. -1.

 

 

 
  

 

Phot ancy Pv|ovic_ The Ring-tum Phi
Nadine Strossen

 

By Miciii-:t.i.i5 BRll£l\'
Phi Staff Writer

One year after the Los Angeles ri-
ots, the issue was still hot enough to
pack Lee Chapel for a debate between
former L.A. Police Department Chief
Daryl Gates and American Civil Liber-
ties Union National President Nadine
Strossen.

Strossen and Gates debated the is-
sue of police brutality wider the topic
of“Law and Order and the L.A. Riots.”

Strossen said the two guilty verdicts
from the recent second trial of the four
police officers who beat Rodney King
have not solved the problem.

“If we are to get anything from the
riots we should see that police brutality
is systemic, notan aberration,” Strossen
said in her opening statement. “The
Amnesty lntemational report [after the
riots] concluded that there is a serious
problem in the L.A.P.D. from exces-
sive use of force.”

    
 

it
The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1993

Strossen, Gates debate on L.A. riot issue’

Gates responded that Strossen’s
statements were “fuzzy facts that lead
to fuzzy conclusi()ns and a fuzzy phi-
los()phy.”

“I don’t think most people gave a
hill of beans about the verdict [of the
first Rodney King triall,” said Gates.
“They saw it as a chance to sink to the
lowest common denominator.”

Gates said the justice system worked
in the first trial and that the second trial
was politically correct.

“Tragedy befell the twoofficers con-
victed,” said Gates. ‘‘I understand the
satisfaction of the conviction, but the
whole situation was tragic.”

This is the third time Gates and
Strossen have debated, but the first at
which there were no violence or dem-
onstrations because of their debate.

“Students at other schools have or-
ganized demonstrations against Gates,”
Strossen said after the debate.

Gates was the L.A. Police Chief
during the rioting that followed the

acquittal of four white police officers
on trial for beating black motorist
Rodney King. The incident vaulted
into the national spotlight because ama-
teur photographer George Holiday cap-
tured the beating on videotape.

Gates retired from the L.A.P.D. on
March 28, 1993, one year after the
Rodney King incident. Gates served
with the L.A.P.D. for 43 years, the last
14 as chief. He is recognized as the
father of the Drug Abuse Resistance
Education (D.A.R.E.) program. Gates
also pioneered the concept and imple-
mentation of the nation’s first SWAT
team.

Strossen was elected president of

the ACLU in January 1991. She has
served the ACLU as national general
counsel since 1986. Strossen is the first
woman and the youngest person to
hold the top position.

Thursday’s debate was sponsored
by the W&L chapter of the ACLU, the
Federalist Society and the Black Law

Student Association. Dean Randall
Bezanson of the Washington and Lee
School of Law moderated the debate.

W&L ACLU Chapter President
Andrew Schneider said the event was a
huge success.

“The debate caused a lot of people
to think about the problems of law
enforcement and criminal justice in
our system and how it affects minori-
ties,” said Schneider.

Schneider said W&L’s apparent
apathy during the rioting prompted him
to organize the event.

“Things were going on atother carn-
puses: riots, sit-ins, teach-ins,” said
Schneider. “Nothing happened here. 1
made a mental note of that. I wanted to
do something last spring, but it didn't
occur to me to do the debate until this
winter.”

“The whole point was to raise
consciousness...we all benefitted from
it, no matter what side of the issue you
fall on.”

' etc by Nany"Pavlovic,-r.‘i ng

Clockwise from top right: Cast and crew ofthe Foreign
Student prepare for yesterday's filming. Marco
Hotfschneider takes a break from the action and waits
for his scene to be shot. Cathargo Films crew occupy
two-hour parking spots for three days, and cause

commotion in Lexington

The Foreign Student

  
  
 
  

Darryl Gates

Delt’s suspension
to end this summer’

D From DELT, page 1

network of alumni committees
to match the undergraduate com-
mittees. The alumni committees
will act as a liason between the
fraternity and the rest of the
alumni.

“Wc’re going to need all the
support we can get,” McCabe
said. “We have to show [the
alumni] the chapter has tumed
around and that they should give
it another look.”

McCabe said that Deltnation-
als have been very supportive of
the W&L chapter since its sus-
pension a year and a half ago.
McCabe said that in most situa-
tions, the chapter would have had
its charter revoked when the uni-
versity suspended the chapter.

The next challenge Delt must
face is rush. McCabe said he is

pleased with lFC’s new rush pro-
posal, but wished pledge class
caps had been a part of the final
plan. 0

‘‘I believe that the disparity in
pledge class sizes and the dispar-
ity in house sizes is nothing but
detrimental,” said McCabe.

McCabe said the fraternity
will count on help from its alumni
and nationals to coordinate a st!c-
cessful rush.

Howison compared Delt’s
plight for a successful rush to
Sigma Phi Epsi1on’s rush last
year. Howison said Sig Ep was a
small fraternity that utilized
strong leadership and their ril-
tionals to secure a first-rate pledge
class in 1991.

“I want to be optimistic and
upbeat,” Howison said. “Delt is
back and we’re confident they’ll
do well.”

VMl cadets pulled 9

from ACLU debate,

53 From VMI, page 1

sin gle-sex admissions policy and
coeducation, respectively.

Andrew Schneider, president
of W&L’s ACLU chapter, dis-
agreed with VMl’s decision to
pull Tweety and Coleman.

“1 made it clear beforehand
that the cadets would make dis-
claimers so their opinions could
not be interpreted as the official
VMI position,” said Schneider.
“After reading the disclaimer,
the cadets debating should in no
way have affected VMI’s court
case.”

Bissell explained why he

debate.
‘‘It’s like a criminal court pro-

ceeding where no discussion can '

take place until after it's over,”
Bissell said. “We can’thave any-
thing interfere with our
appeal...The two cadets came Co
me wishing to participate in the
debate, but we had to say, ‘Guys,
you can ’t— not until the Supreme
Court is done with it. Then you
can talk all you want.”’
Schneiderdidn ’t think that was
a good enough excuse. 0
‘‘While I understand their rea-
son for pulling Coleman and
Tweety,” he said, “the decision
contradicts everything a univer-

r

All photos by Bethany Smith, The Fiing-tum Phi would no, allow me cadels ,0 my is for_’’_
0
A|um’s killer
. Alumni Weekend Schedule
 g   n   THURSDAY, MAY 6 Remarks by President John D. Wilson.,All Alumni, spouses and guests are invited.
8:30 p.m. —Opening Reunion Assembly, Lee Chapel 11 am-12:3() p.m. —— Hillel Reception, University Center, Fairfax Lounge .

Keynote Speaker: Dr.Sidney M.B. Coulling, Ill ’46, professor of English
emeritus,“Remembrance of Things Past: W&L 1939-1988”

9-11 p.m.——Welcoming Reception, Alumni House

FRIDAY, MAY 7

9 a.m.-5 p.m. —— Reunion Registration, Alumni House

9 a.m. — Spring Meeting of the Law Council, Lewis Hall

9-10:30 a.m. — Reunion Seminar, Lenfest Center, Keller Theatre
“Where Do We Go From Here?” A Panel Discussion sponsored by the Class of 1953
9:30-10:30 a.m. — Reunion Seminar,Moot Court Room, Lewis Hall
“W&L Law School Today: A Panel Discussion”

10:30 a.m. — Campus Tours,Alumni House

10:45-12 noon —— Reunion Seminar, Lenfest Center, Keller Theatre
“Education in America: Some Local Reflections”

11:30 a.m. -— Class Meetings, Campus Locations

11:30 a.m. — Dedication of the Class of 1943 Memorial Wall

1 1:30 a.m. — Special Tours of the Reeves Center

12-] p.m.—— Alumni Authors Book Signing,University Book Store
1230-1 :30 p.m. — Luncheon,Front Lawn

1—2:30 p.m. — Alumni Authors Book Signing, University Book Store
1:30 pm.-- ODK Spring Initiation, Lee Chapel. All Alumni, especially ODK mem- ‘
bers, are invited. 1

2 p.m. — The Lee—Jackson classic Lacrosse Game,VMI Alumni Field
EVENING ACTIVITIES

5-7 p.m. —- Vicory Celebration, Zollman’s Pavilion

LAW SCHOOL ALUMNI

6-7:30 p.m. — Law School Alumni Cocktails, Law School Photos,

FROM STAFF REPORTS

A Peruvian special terrorism court sentenced
a Peruvian man last week in the murder of
Tampa Tribune reporter and Washington and
Lee alumnus Todd Smith, who was found tor-
tured to death in Peru some 3-1/2 years ago.

Jose Antonio Manrique Vega, an alleged
Maoist Shining Path guerrilla, was sentenced
last Thursday to 30 years in prison for killing
Smith, who was investigating the drug trade in
Peru when he was tortured and murdered. Smith
was a member of Washington and Lee’s class
of ’83.

Mamiquo was oonvioiod iaigeiy due to a 10:45-12 noon -— Reunion Seminar, duPont 102 the Home of Dean and Mrs. Randall P. Bezanson (1 11 Lee Avenue). ‘ .

Fedora] Bureau of Investigation regulation that 12-1: 15 p.m. — Luncheon, Front Lawn 7:30 p.m. — Banquet for all Law Alumni,Evans Dining Hall

allows the FBI to pursue cases outside of the Rain Plan: Doremux Gymnasium/Warner Center UNDERGRADUATE ALUMNI _

United States when terrorists are involved. A 1:30-2:30 p.m. — Reunion Seminar,Lee Chapel 7-11:00 p.m. —— Old—Fashioned Barbecue Bash at Zollman’s Pavilion

federally-protected witness helped the terror— “W&L Today: A Student Panel Discussion” for the Undergraduate Classes 1973, 1978, 1983, 1988.

ism courtto convict Manrique. The FBland the 2:45-4 p.m. —Reunion seminar, duPont 102 Class of 1943

U.S. Embassy have been working together on “China: The Tiger Purrs?” 6 p.m. — Cocktails at the Alumni House, entertainment by WLUR and Southern

the case since 1989. 2:45-4 p.m. —— Reunion Seminar, Commerce School, Room 327 Comfort . :

7:30 p.m — Banfquct and Dance at the Lexington Golf and Country Club. E.me7tain-

Smith had been visiting coca fields with
ment by .]ubiLee and the Jim Caldwell Band

representatives from the local coca—growers

“You Are Only Young Once, But You Can Be Immature All of Your Life!”
Sponsored by the Class of 1968. '

cooperative, who attempted to convince Smith 3 p.m. —Campus Tours,Alumni House Class of 1948

to stay the night in the area with the army. 5:30 -7 p.m. — Cocktails with the Faeulty,Front Lawn 6:30 p.in. — Cocktails and Banqueet at the Willson—Walker House.

When Smith tried to catch a plane out of the llonoring Retiring Faculty: Edward C. Atwood, Jr., Ph.D., Professor of Economics Class of 1953

area, he was abducted by armed men. (1953-1993) and Cleveland P. Hickman, Jr., Ph.D., Professor of Biology (1967-1993). 6:3() p.m. Cocktails and Banquet at the Lenfest Center. Entertainment by the

Rain Plan: Warner Center

6:30-8 p.m. ——Buffet Dinner,Front Lawn

Entertainment by The Johnny McClenon Big Band. Rain P/an: Warner Center
9-12:30 a.m. ——- Reunion Dance (lnformal),Wamer Center

Featuring SPECTRUM, Special Guests: The Cla.\‘.\‘ of / 993

SATURDAY, MAY 8

8 a.m. — Fun Run through W&L and Lcxington,Doremus Gymnasium

Led by “Stormin” Norman Lord, professor of Physical Education emeritus

The witness, whose name is being withheld,
testified he had been kidnapped by terrorists
after trying to sell an alligator to Smith in the
jungle town of Uchiza, where Smith was even-
tually killed. The witness said he was brought
to a cabin on the outskirts of Uchiza, where he
testified Smith was beaten and tortured. After
being accused ofbeing Smith’s accomplice for

Thornhill Trio .
Class of 1958

6:3() p.in. -— Cocktails and Barbecue at the Home of Edgar and Julie MacKinlay ’58.
Entertainment by Wildgrass

Class of 1963

6:3() p.in. ~— Cocktails and Banquet at the Gaines Hall Gatehouse. Entertainment by
Southern Comfort

Class of 1968

having talked [0 him i“ ‘Own: ‘he Wimcss Said 9-10 a.m. —— Registration for Late Arrivals, Alumni House 6:3() p.in. — Cocktails at the Summer House at Natural Bridge Dinner and Dance in ” ‘
he mamgcd ‘O “C399 ‘he cab” and afterwards 9:-1() a.m. —Photos for the Undergraduate and Lee Chapel. Law Classes of ’43, ’48, the J effcrson Room at the Natural Bridge Hotel.

ran to the U.S. Embassy to seek help‘. . _ :53, »58, and :63 FOR ALL ALUMNI

Under P°“%Vl=1“ '3“: mm 15“? d‘~‘‘‘“°‘‘°T‘ 10 a.m. ——Joint Meeting of the W&L Alumni and the W&L Law Alumni Associations, 9:30-1:00 a.in. 4-. “In the GHQ,” Universtiy Center
“twee” h°”“°‘d° and accomphcc [0 hom" Lee Chapel. 9:30—1 1:30 p.m. —— Relax with Friends at the Alumni House.
zle. Mai.: ique has appealed the decision to the
'\ Supreme Court.
0

 

 

Thg Ring-tum Phi, MAY 6, 1993

 
    
  
         
 

re’

REDUCED PRII
' FRESH PORK

SPARE

       
 

 Hams teeter
MEANS LOW PRICES

egg: ha‘... I n ‘ .
‘57-'s’-.I.‘.Z~3~*».'F«.5’-r'r.’

  
 

GROUND FRESH
SEVERAL TIMES
DAILY

FRESH
MUSHROOMS

5 oz.

   
 
 

DIET COKE OR
COCA-COLA

2 IITER O 9

 
 

  

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

   
   
 

, ~ WORK AT
A THE BEACH!

AND HILTON HEAD
LOCATIONS ARE
NOW HIRING FOR
THE SUMMER.

IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILTON
HEAD LOCATIONS OR MAIL
APPLICATION TO: '1 “

O

    
  

JERRY ALLEN \  ,
HARRIS TEETER, INC.
LITCHFIELD LANDING
SHOPPING CENTER

. ROUTE 2, BOX 288
LITCHFIELD, S.C. 29585

IIBIIISTBBIBI
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK!

 

OUR MYRTLE BEACH

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE twin 4

DIET COLA OR “EASE
COLA ....t2 PK. 1202. CANS

RESTAURANT STYLE

TOSTITOS
CHIPS ............................. ..t 0 oz.

ORE-IDA

GOLDEN

I 99
FRIES ........................ ..32 oz.
BORDEN

1 29
SINGLE WRAP I 39
CHEESE ................... ..l 2 oz.

179

    

SPORTS

Athletes counsel teammates

PAGE 9

By ANDREA COBRIN
Phi News Editor

Student-athletes at Washington and Lee don’t have to
look past their own team members to find someone who is
trained to help them.

This fall 32 athletes, at least one from each sports team,
were trained to counsel their teammates in a number of
areas. These athletes are now called S.A.M.s, or student-
athlete mentors, and they help to link their team to the
different resources the university has to offer.

Athletic Director Mike Walsh decided there was a need
for this type of program at W&L after attending a conference
at University of Virginia in January 1991. The conference
was on Alcohol Prevention Programming and Leadership
Education. W&L’s S.A.M.s program is based on a similar
program at UVa.

“What it really is is a mentoring program for student-
athletes,” Walsh said. “ [A S.A.M.] is someone who can be
a friend to offer assistance to a [teammate] on a myriad of
levels.”

Athletic trainer Tom Jones agrees.

“The S.A.M.s are available to assist in terms of informa-
tion and support,” Jones said.

Junior Tara Bums, who is co—captain of the women’s
volleyball team, was part of the committee that helped bring
the S.A.M.s program to W&L. Burns said the program is
very specific to the individual teams.

“As a S.A.M., you can create whatever type of program
you want for your team,”junior Tara Burns said. “What the
team wants is what the S.A.M.s do for them.”

Burns said the volleyball team wanted a program on

MEN’S LACROSSE . .
pl0I'lShlpS.
Despite trailing 6-1 after the first

 

letic Association Division III Cham-

Baker hopes, however, to eclipse

injury prevention so she went to Jones to ask him to put that
type of program together.

Jones said he has also done programs on nutrition, off-
season conditioning and overuse syndromes like tendonitis
and shin splints.

“We would address any issue of significance to the
athlete,” Jones said.

Bums said a main concern with the program was that it
would be just alcohol prevention, but she says this is not the
case at all.

“They don’t pick S.A.M.s who don’t drink,” Burns said.
“That’s not what the program is about. The one thing that
people need to understand is that it’s not intended for the
S.A.M.s to be a bunch of narcs. lt’s for the athletes to help
[each other] become better student-athletes."

Burns says the program is another counseling tool for the
university. She says athletes may feel more comfortable
going to a teammate rather than to a peer counscl()r. Also,
a S.A.M. is trained to help recognize signs oftrouble. lfthey
see a teammate struggling, they can help recommend coun-
seling.

Jones agrees.

“We see the S.A.M.s as playing the role of offering a
channel for information as as a communicative element
between teams and coaches,” Jones said.

The athletic department is looking ahead to the program’s
first full year of operation, which will start in the fall.

“The key element in this are those S.A.M.s who were
picked to help out their teams,” Jones said. “l’m encour-
aged. I think we have a lot of good people and this
underlines the positives of athletic involvement in terms of
self-discipline and the [outcome] of positive attitudes to-
wards good sportsmanship.”

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

ond in W&L history.

TRACK AND FIELD

CHUNK LIGHT
STAR KIST
TUNA

6. I2 OZ.
i§‘a"3‘t‘t"

 
 

HUNTER

ALI. NATURAL
° ICE CREAM

   
 

HALF GAL.

ASSORTED
VARIETIES

 

KELLOGG'S
RICE
KRISPIES

  

I5 OZ.

  
   

  

   

Prices Effective Through May 4, I993

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, April 28 Throu
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None

    

hTues_day, May 4, 1993. In Lekington ‘ Stores
Sold To Dealers. We Giadiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

  

quarter in Saturday’s game against
Division I Mt. St. Mary's, the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s lacrosse team
pulled out a stellar 17-12 win.

Senior Wiemi Douoguih scored
a career-high nine points off six goals
and three assists to lead the Gener-
als, who came on with an 8-0 run
after falling to 7-2 early in the sec-
ond quarter. Sophomore Scott
Mackley contributed to the Gener-
als’ victory with four goals.

This outcome brings W&L’s
record to 10-2 on the season. Wash-
ington and Lee now leads the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference with
a 5-0 record, and is tied with Roanoke
College.

Roanoke, 4th-ranked in Division
III, will face off against10th-ranked
W&L today on Wilson Field in a
game which will decide the 1993
ODAC Championship and could
give its victor a berth in the National
Collegiate Athletic Association Na-
tional tournament.

Douoguih’s performance on Sat-
urday brings his season point-total
to 60, 12th-best in school history.
His 88 career goals is the llth—high—
est total Washington and Lee has
ever seen.

TENNIS

Sophomore Marilyn Baker has
repeated her performance of last year
as she earned her second-straight
berth in the National Collegiate Ath-

last year’s performance from now
on. In 1992, she lost in the round of
16, though she was the first W&L
female ever to advance past the first
round.

“I hope to place in the top 10 this
year,” said Baker. Though the doubles
team of Baker and freshman Julie
Ayers was ranked 14th in the nation
at mid-season, they failed to reach
the tournament.

Baker, the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Player of the Year, will
compete May 15-1 7 at Carleton Col-
lege in Northfield, Minnesota.

On the men’s side, the doubles
team of junior Robbie MacNaughton
and freshman Peter Hammond are
waiting eagerly today to discover if
they will be asked to the men’s NCAA
tournament in Kalamazoo, Michigan.
They are ranked 6th nationally.

MaeNaughton hopes to top his
ODAC Player of the Year perfor-
mance by an individual invitation to
the May 19th tournament.

BASEBALL

For the first time since l99(), a
Washington and Lee athlete was
named to the baseball All-Old Do-
minion Athletic Confcrence teams.

Senior shortstop Jon Hesse made
the All-ODAC second team after hit-
ting .333 this season, scoring nine
doubles and 13 runners batted in. His
double total -ties the school record,
and his career 21 doubles ranks sec-

Feeling left out as they watch
Washington and Lee’s other spring
sports advance to national competi-
tion are the track teams, who are
doing their utmost to reach qualify-
ing standards in several events.

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer,
who has already qualified provision-
ally for Division III Nationals, will
compete for her second time in the
l0,00()-meter run at the University of
North Carolina Invitational on Satur-
day. Shemustshave aboutoneminute
off her previous mark in order to
qualify automatically.

Also nursing high hopes for quali-
fication are the members of the W&L
men’s 400-meter relay team, juniors
Scot Covey and John Robinson,
sophomore Hayne Hodges and f resh-
man Dax Mahoney. At Lynchburg
College May 1, they once again ob-
tained a mark of42.5 seconds, only
two—tcnths of a second offprovisional

 quaiifying time and fivc-tenths from

automatic time. '

Bo Hannah ran a personal best
time of 15: 15.5 in the500()-meter run
at Lynchburg, only 21 seconds from
provisional qualification. He intends
to compete in the l0,()()0 at UNC.

Sophomore Sarah Gilbert also
competed over the weekend, becom-
ing the first W&L athlete to ccmpete
in the heptathlon as she ran against
sonte of the Division l’s top talent at
Liberty University. She placed third
in both the high jump and the S00-
metct'run,finishing with 3,241 points.

Photo by W. Patrick Hlnely

Sophomore Marilyn Baker, on her merry way to the Division III National Championship,
returns a serve from an opponent.

  

Last Week:

WLax-W&L 7, Roanoke 6

MLa><-W&L 17, Mt. St. Mary's 12
MTrack—at Lynchburg invitational
WTrack-5th at Liberty Multi-event

PAGE

Young women
make big stars,

SARAH on Sponrs
by Sarah Gilbert

Sure, I kriowuthat the Atlanta
Braves went from worst-to-first
afew years ago,"and the Orlando
Magic have risen from the cellar
of the Eastern Conference to
showcase the Shaq Attack, but
the amazing development of the
women’s athletic programs at
Washington and Lee University
is worth watching a little more
closely.

Think about it. Atlanta and
Orlando have the benefits of lot-
tery drafts and payrolls, while
many of the W&L women ath-
letes‘ came to Lexington
unrecruited and, in many cases,
with no plans to compete in their
respective sports.

In only five seasons, the
women’s lacrosse team has
earned the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference title twice and
this year the girls in skirts are
heading to Division III Nation-
als. Not bad for a 5-year-old.

How could even a profes-
sional team accomplish feats to
rival these? Perhaps by padding

its schedules with patsies?

Nope.W&L willhave played
the No. l and No. Zteams in DIII
this year, not to mention com-
peting in a conference which
this year held 10th-ranked
Roanoke.

Everyone has a prodigy,
right? Then how does one ex-
plain theGenerals’ women’s ten-
nis team? Only a conflict with
the winter exam schedule pre-
vented the entire team from a
probable invitation to DIII Na- '
tionals, and sophomore Marilyn
Baker will travel to Michigan to
compete against (and, most
likely, beat) thebest in the coun- I
try

Flukes? I don’t think so.
Next we have women’s soc-

cer. Five years old, two-time

ODAC regular season champi-

‘ms’: Llié.-’~t’2lr'1tl'U¥,?i.’?tV,3 9;:”‘li~=.’Lli‘;v —

ing, take a look at the 4-year-old
women’s cross country team.
Distances mean nothing to these
girl s, who travelled to New York
this fall to compete in Nationals
and showcase All-American dis-
tance goddess, freshman
Josephine Schaeffer. (Put that in
your scrapbook, Josephine!)

And how ’bout that women’s
swimming team? No older than
lacrosse or soccer, the team this
year sported two, count them 1-
2, All—Americans. '

Freshman Rebekah Prince
adorned her first trip to Nation-
als with a sixth and seventh place,
while senior Claire Dudley ﬁn-
ished her fourth excursion with
two finishes in the top 16.

officiality to different degrees
are surpassing every dream.

, Women’s tracﬁ, only‘ Thur
years young, recently earned its
fourth unofficial ODAC Indoor
Championship, and finished in
the top two outdoors for the
fourth time. Schaeffer wolloped
all her DI competitors in a meet
at Duke University, and several
W&L women are consistently A
competitive at the DI level.

the women’s basketball team
became the winningest hoops

ment, they came in second towa
team which was ranked nation-
ally. As a club?

Yes, as —a club. In fact, the
performance of the team was
impressive enough to earn Var-

“The conventional wisdom
is that our girlsaren’thard-nosed
enough [tolplay aggressive
sportsl,” said basketball coach
and history professor Barry
Machado. ‘.‘But they demon-
strated beyond question that
there was a willingness to de-
velop, improve and compete.”

If only ﬁveyears can bring
such amazing accomplishments

one’s mind, to imagine what hon-’
ors, what championships, what

ognition the next five years will
bring. '_
program as stellar as that of the
Generals? Show me the Dallas

which shine brighter and carry
their brilliance with incompa-
rable class and aptitude: the

If these teams a‘ren"t eonvine- ' '

Even those sports which lack '

We’re going to New Jersey!

Women’s lacrosse says R.l.P.(ken) to Roanoke in ODAC Championship

By Knrm GR/\i\"l‘
Phi Staff Writer

If Saturday’s Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference women’s lacrosse
championship had been a commercial,
it would have ended with, “It just
doesn’t get any better than this.”

With the clock reading “00:0l”,
Nicole Ripken did the improbable and
beat the stingy Roanoke College
goaltender with a quick shot inside the
left post to break a 6-6 tie, leaving just
enough time for a midfield faceoff.

The goal, perhaps one of the most
dramatic moments in W&L sports his-
tory, sent the estimated crowd of 500
into a frenzy and put the Generals (14-
2) into their first ever Division III Na-
tional Toumament. Washington and
Lee must travel to Trenton, New Jersey
for a Saturday game against top-ranked
Trenton State College ( 1 2-0). The win-
ner will advance to the NCAA semi-
finals at College Park, MD.

W&L advanced to the ODAC final

S

@112 ﬂing-tum Iﬁhi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK & FIELD

following a 19-4 rout of Randolph-
Macon in Friday’s second semi-final
game on the Liberty Hall Fields.
Roanoke got past Lynchburg in the
first game to set up the rematch of last
season’s title game.

The 2nd-seeded Maroons rallied
from a 6-4 deficit in the final minutes
and tied the game on Li’/. Florence’s
third goal with 1:51 left. At that point,
many of the Generals felt the game
slipping away.

“I feltjust a little panicked after the
fifth goal [by Roanokel,” said junior
Angie Carrington, who assisted on the
game-winner. ”After their sixth, I
wasn’t even thinking about overtime. I
just felt that somehow we ’ve got to win
this thing.”

Head coach Janine Hathom hoped
the Generals could get the game into
overtime. W&L had beaten Roanoke
twice in a row by 10-9 scores, includ-
ing last year’s ODAC championship
and this season’s regular season title
game.

“There was a point where I just

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

Game-winner Nicole Ripken, sophomore, ignores her Roanoke
competitor in Saturday's ODAC championship game.

 

This Week:
MLa><—Roanoke 5/6, at VMI 5/8
WLax—at Trenton State 5/8

M&WTrack—at UNC Invitational

  
  

    
  

MAY 6, 199

Generals rejoice after Ripken’s last-second goal brought the second-straig ht ODAC ehampionshi

trophy to Lexington.

wanted to buy another overtime and
get a timeout,” said Hathom.

Generals’ goaliejunior Sarah Smith
appeared to have done just that with a
huge save in the final minute to stop a
furious Roanoke attack.

“They had a couple of shots and I
really thought one of those was going
to go in,” said Ripken, a sophomore.

The last of Smit.h’s eight saves,
though, started a last ditch charge by
the Generals. Carrington scooped up a
loose ball and turned upfield.

“When I got the ball, I saw 2() sec-
onds on the clock and just ran down,”
she said. “I don’t remember whatl saw
when I turned toward the goal. I knew
I was guarded tightly and, ldon’t know
why, ljust ran to the side of the goal.”

While Carrington drew the atten-
tion of the defense, Ripken cut across
the front of the net. As the crowd came
to its feet and counted down the final
five seconds, Carrington fed Ripken,
who turned once and fired a shot into
the far comer of the goal.

“I didn’t think it counted,” said
Ripken. “I turned around and saw one
second on the clock, then I saw the ref
signaling ‘goal.’ Angie and I looked at
each other and I think we realized at the
same time that it counted.”

The 7-6 victory gave the women
their second straight ODAC crown. At
14-2, the Generals have their best-ever
overall record and have improved their
mark in each of their five seasons as a
varsity team. They have also now won
13 consecutive home games, dating
back to last season’s 12-8 regular sea-
son loss to Roanoke. That game was
also their last loss to an ODAC oppo-
nent.

What makes this win more dramatic

W&L—RC rivalry heats up  

which Roanoke won again on their way to another chant-

Without even varsity status, . 5

squad in Lexington with a 7-5 9
record. In a post-season toum‘a- - 5

sity status and a bona’-ﬁde, sala- _ S
ried coach next year. V. ‘

to Washington and Lee, it blows '8
national commendations and rec- ’ 1
Can anyone find a tledging 

Cowboys, and l’ll show you stars r

women of Washington and Lee. L

By Knmr Gmwr
Phi Staff Writer

For the second time this week, Roanoke College will
bus up I-81 to Lexington to decide the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference lacrosse championship. Saturday
it was the women. Thursday, it will be the men.

For two decades, it was a men’s rivalry that annually
pitted the Shenandoah’s top two teams against one
another. Now that coach Janine Hathorn has turned "the
W&L women’s program into a national power in just
five years, the I-81 rivalry is as intense as ever.

“Roanoke is a very intense, competitive school,”
said Paige Henke, a senior on the W&L women’s
lacrosse team. “This game is always going to be the
toughest game for both of us.”

One can assume that the meetings will only get
tougher for the women. W&L has taken three in a row
from RC after never having beaten them before last
year’s ODAC Tournament final. The Generals took
that one in a 10-9 overtime thriller. On the last day of the

1993 regular season, W&L won another classic, again
1()—9 in OT.

Finally, Nicole Ripken’s literal last-second goal last
Saturday gave the Generals their first ever NCAA
Division III tournament bid.

“Roanoke really prides themselves on making the
nationals,” said junior Angie Carrington. “We came in
really focused on just that game.”

The first playoff meeting between the Roanoke and
W&L women was in the Generals’ first season as a
varsity team. Despite a 3-4 ODAC campaign, W&L
advanced to the tournament semi-finals after a 7-5 win
at Harnpden-Sydney College. The Maroons, though,
came away with a 14-10 win in the semis. ,

The rivalry heated up in 1990, as the Maroons and
Generals took the top two seeds for the ODAC Touma-
ment. A W&L semi-final loss to Lynchburg, however,
prevented a final matchup with eventual champion

Roanoke.

They did meet again in a 1991 semifinal game,

, other, the schools’ sizes are very similar. Roanoke has

pionship. However, the 8-7 margin was a telling sign that
the Maroons’ dominance was slipping.

Sure enough, Roanoke’s 12-8 win in Lexington during
the 1992 regular seasonwas their last victory over W&L.

“It's now established that it will always be a great game
when we play them,” said Hathom. “It’s always going to
be huge, now as much as ever.”

According to Roanoke men’s head lacrosse coach Bill
Pilat, the men’s rivalry has dated back to at least the early
seventies, when W&L was in Division I and Roanoke
played Division II.

“The schools are very similar,” said Pilat. “And the
guys tend to know each other from summer leagues or
from high school.”

Generals senior Josh Levinson agreed with Pilat.

“The players nearly all come from the same areas-
Maryland, Long Island, New England—and wc’rc usually
matched up pretty even,” said Levinson.

In addition to being within a one hour drive of each

about 1500 students, while W&L tops off at 1600.

Since Washington and Lee entered the ODAC in 1987,
the competition between the two has become very fierce.
In ’87, the Maroons knocked offW&L in the Generals first
ODAC season to take the conference championship, in
double overtime!

The Maroons took two of the next three titles before
Washington and Lee won its first and (for now) only
ODAC championship in 1991. W&L finished the season
at a perfect 5-0, while Roanoke paid for its loss to the
Generals and came in second at 4-1.

“We’re both always near the top of the conference and
that just keeps adding to the rivalry,” Pilat said.

Roanoke managed revenge last year by winning the
annual meeting, 14-1 1,, to claim its tenth ODAC crown.

With both teams ranked in the top ten nationally this
year and a bid for the NCAA Division III Tournament
once again at stake, the rivalry between these two confer-
ence powers does not appear to be weakening. In fact, with
the competition among the women now as intense as that
among the men, the Shenandoah may never be the same.

 

was that they did it without leading
scorer Lisa Dowling. Dowling owns
every school offensive record for a
game, season, and career. The senior
captain scored an early goal for W&L,
but was injured midway through the
first half and could not return.

Dowling had taken two hard falls.
On the second one, she came down
hard on her head.

“I just couldn’t get my hands off of
my stick fast enough,” said Dowling.
She suffered a minor concussion and a
black eye.

The Generals shuffled several play-
ers around to make up for the loss.
Carrington picked up theoffensiveload
with three goals, including two just
before halftime to give W&L a 5-4
lead. Ripken tallied two scores.

The women felt that the strong turn-
out ofW&L faithful to the Liberty Hall
Fields gave them a solid advantage.

“It was a definite advantage to be at
home,” said senior Paige Henke. “It
can be intimidating to play at Roanoke.
Their fans are pretty loud and can make
things rough.”

While Hathom believed the key to
the win was the play of Smith and the
Generals’ team defense, Henke had
another theory.

“I honestly think that we wanted it
more,” she said. “There were bad calls
both ways, and missed shots for both of
us, but we had a strong core of seniors
who wanted this game more than them.”

The team learned of their NCAA
tournament bid on Monday. This is the
sixth time coach Hathom will take a
team into the Division III national tour-
nament, but it is the Generals’ first
appearance. It will also be the first time
that W&L will face the number-one

Washington and Lee and Roanoke athletes perpetuate tradition
as senior John Hunter tends of an opponent.

 

  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  

1
Photo by W. Patrick Hinel

ranked team.

Trenton State was a perfect 12-
this season and is in the midst ofa 39
game win streak. The streak dates bac
to April 13, 1991 when they fell t
Ithaca College, 5-4. Trenton State’
last regular season home loss was al
most exactly a year before that, 10-8 t
Northwestern. ,

The team’s top scorer is9Pa
Pluquez, who comes into the tourn‘
ment with 45 goals and I0 assist.
Pluquex is one of 24 New Jerseyites o
the 25-player roster. Kyrs Preston (3
goals, 19 assists) and Jennife
Ma’/.7.acco (29 goals) are among se
eral Trenton State women with 2! lea
20 goals.

The team's strength, however, i
their goaltending. Gina Carey has a
lowed just 54 goals, while saving 14
shots. Carey has a .733 save percentag
and her goals-against average is a mi
nuscule 4.56. i

According to Ripken, the General
have been working more than usual 0
their shooting this week. Althoug
Trenton St. defeated Roanoke 18-
earlier this year, they beat Salisbury S
by a very similar score to the Genet
als’.Their final was l5—6,whi}e W&L’
victory was 15-5.

Ripken said that spectators who sa
both contests said that the Genera
played as well as Trenton St. did.

“We’re going in with a good att
tude,” said Ripken.

Hathom, whose career co hi
mark is now 10845, believes thatt
Generals have a good chance to exten
their season with a win on,Saturday.

“On any given day, anything c
happen,” she said. “We’re going ther
to play to win.”

     

   
  
  
  

  

   
  
    

  
  
     
   
  
    
    
     
   
 
    
    
  
    
  
   
    
  
    
   
  

   

  
   
  
   
   

  

O

 

 
 
   
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

  

  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  
 
 
 
 
   

 
  
 
 
 
 
  

  

  
 
  

  
   
  

   
   

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

   
  

    

    

 

