 

THE UNIVERENTY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON St LEE UNIVERSITY
LEX4.i\IG'l'ON.V‘.A 24-‘:-B0

MAY 1

    Cllnzﬂing-111m Iﬂlti

salt

4 I993

  

VOLUME 92, NO. 26

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

We are the champions

M The Washington and Lee men's lacrosse team celebrates their 9-8 victory over Roanoke. See story, page 6.

Sexual assault video educates

      

Photo by Darran Winslow, The Ring-tum Phi

Students show video to promote awareness

By MICHAEL HEWLET1‘
Phi Staff Writer

“No relevance.” “Rough love.” “Full
blown discrimination against men.” “An-
dther thing ugly women complain about.”
These are some of the responses that W&L
students used to define date rape in a survey
conducted by Denise Branard, ’92, and
Heather Turner, ’92.

Branard and Tumor used the results of the
survey to make Painful Encounters: Forced
tkx by Someone You Know, a video based on
interviews with W&L rape victims. Branard
and Turner made the video last year as a
project for Professor David Novack’s Gen-
der Relations course. _

Branard decided to make the video after
she went through training with the
iockbridge Area Coalition Against Sexual
Assault (RACASA). According to Branard,
most of the videos at RACASA were out-
dated.

She said people [on campus] were “lulled
into a sense of security.”

Branard said it was not difficult to get
W&L victims to come forward. Associate
Dean of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont
helped arrange it. After researching general
literature, statistics, and gender surveys, it
took Branard and Turner six weeks to com-
plete the film.

VMI to host
Lexington’s
third movie

By THOMAS HESPOS
. Phi News Editor

Whoever handles publicity for the City of
Lexington is doing an incredible job.

For the third time in a year, Lexington will
host a movie, this time on the campus of
Virginia Military Institute. Filming will start
July 10. The movie will be called Conduct
Unbecoming: The Court Martial of Johnson
Whitaker, according to VMI Director of Pub-
lic Relations Mike Strickler.

According to a news release by Strickler,
the movie is based on a true story of a black
cadet who attended West Point in 1881.
Whitaker, the only black cadet at the academy
at the time, was assaulted in- his room a few
months before his graduation by three masked
men. Whitaker asked a court of inquiry to
look into the incident and the court instead
charged Whitaker with the crime. Whitaker
was found guilty and asked for a court-martial
to clear his name. The resulting trial found
Whitaker guilty of faking the incident, but the
conviction was later overturned.

VMI was chosen for the filming because
Virginia is a right-to—work state which will

not force the producers to pay actors union _

wages.
According to the release, Harry Jones, a
ulti—ta1ented Emmy award-winner, will pro-
gitce the film for Showtime, a cable television
station. The movie will not appear in theaters.

This year, four W&L women, Heather
Rhodes, ’93, Lyrac Van Clief, ’93, Elizabeth
Dettmar, ’94, and Betsy Kleiner, ’.93, have
shown the video to the Interfratemity Coun-
cil, Phi Gamma Delta, Pi Kappa Alpha, Kappa
Kappa Gamma, Pi Beta Phi and Kappa Al-
pha Theta.

“There wasn’t a lot of discussion after-
wards,” IFC President Curt Smith said. “I
don’t think people expected a presentation
with such an impact. It’s a pretty powerful
presentation. It kind of puts things in per-
spective when it’s people you know and see
around campus.”

Elizabeth Dettmar, who participated in
the making of the video and has been part of
the rape support group on campus, said she
wanted to make people aware about date
rape.

“We wanted an educational tool to help
change students’ attitudes about date rape at
W&L,” said Dettmar.

Schroer—Larnont believes the video can
serve as an effective tool in changing atti-
tudes.

“It is the most powerful tool that we’ve
found thus far to demonstrate the problem of
forced intercourse by someone you know,”
said Schroer-Lamont. “Many of the men
who have attended these programs seem to
be deeply moved by the personal stories of
our own students.”

Novack believes the video can be an ef-

fective tool in combating date rape.

“One of the things important about that
videotape is that it attempts to make male and
female students more aware in communica-
tions,” he said.

Novack said the video also made women
more careful, made men listen to what women
want and don’t want, and made men more
sensitive to the need for sexual relations to be
consensual. .

For Betsy Kleiner, the video exists to
educate people and to serve as a healing
process for herself. Kleiner said that because
she graduates inlune, she wanted to show the
video to all of the fraternities and sororities
before she receives her diploma.

Kleiner said the videotape “hits people
pretty hard.”

Dettrnar believes the vide‘o"i‘s making
impact, but she has her doubts that it will
change people’s opinions.

“I think it’s asking for a miracle to expect
that this [video] will change attitudes at
W&L,” she said. “It's going to take more
than a video.”

Smith agreed.

“I don’t think one tape is going to change
people’s attitudes,” he said. “but having
people in the houses who are educated helps.
I think education is what prevents that kind of
stuff [from happening]. [IFC] will help out
with the program if they want to do it again
next year.”

Art Pavilion

By MELISSA Cuims
Phi Staff Writer

For those who are wondering when
the Watson Pavilion will finally open,
they have a while to wait—it won’t be
ready until the fall.

“It’s been a very complicated build-
ing and it took the contractor longer than
he bargained for, ” said Frank Parsons,
university coordinator of capital plan-
ning. I

The Watson Pavilion, an extension of
the Reeves Center will house a collection
of antique Chinese furniture, jade pieces
and porcelain donated by Mrs. William
Watson, whose husband was a 1929
Washington and Lee graduate. The col-
lection is valued at over $6 million. Mrs.
Watson requested the building be called
the Watson Pavilion, not the Watson
Gallery.

Construction of the building will be
completed in late May, but Watson Pa-
vilion won’t be open to the public until

opensinfaﬂ

next school year.

“We’re hoping to be open to the Uni-
versity family when school is back in
session, ” said Director of the Reeves
Center Tom Litzenburg, who is in charge
of preparing the Watson Pavilion for Mrs.
Watson.

Litzenberg said it will take all summer
to do the inventory of the collection and
to place it in the building.

Litzenburg said the dedication of the
Watson Pavilion will take place the week-
end of October 23, with the Board of
Trustees present.

Parsons said the contractor will be
working on a list of “all the little things
that need to be attended to,” like remov-
ing extraneous nails and touching up paint
in spots.

Parsons said one big job that still needs
to be done is cover ing the steel pipe on
the top of the columns with white column
covers. Parsons said the covers are appar-
ently “lost in transit.”

“Nobody knows where the heck they
are,” Parsons said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 13, 1993

SAC reviews Beta
conduct problems

By FRANCESCA Karxuxs
Phi Executive Editor

Beta Theta Pi Fraternity went
before the Student Affairs Com-
mittee at 2 p.m. today for a re-
view of the fraternity”s conduct
during the school year.

SAC officials said their “con-
cern is a pattern of unacceptable
behavior in the house particu-
larly concerning house damage.”

Dean of Students David
Howison said SAC can either
place Beta on critical probation,
suspend the fraternity or take no
action.

Beta appeared before the
Interfratemity Council May 4 and
was placed on conduct probation
for the remainder of the school
year, IFC President Curt Smith
said.

“We suggested that Beta take
things into their own hands,”
Smith said. “We told Beta if we
have any more problems with
them we would automatical lyput
them on social probation.”

The IFC hearing was the re-
sult of a string of events:

0 On April 6 Beta made an
agreement concerning fraternity
conduct and house maintenance
with their house corporation.

Smith said Beta initiated the
agreement and requested help
from their house corporation.

0 On April 22 a Buildings
and Grounds inspection indicated
continued maintenance prob-
lcms.

0 On April 24 Security was
called to the Beta house for a
complaint of loud music and
bottle throwing from the back
porch on to Red Square‘.

Beta Chapter Advisor Farris
Hotchkiss said he did not want to
comment on the details of Beta’s
SAC hearing until the hearing is
over, but he did acknowledge
there have been problems in the
house.

“The house corporation, for
the Betas and the other fratemi—
ties, has a responsibility as land-
lord,” said Hotchkiss. “In this
particular case the house corpo-
ration has been paying close at-
tention.”

Hotchkiss said the Beta house
corporation met last weekend and
took action on the fraternity.
Hotchkiss would not comment
on the nature of the action, but
Smith said Beta dismissed one
fraternity member from the house
last weekend. He said one other
fraternity member had been dis-

missed earlier in the year.

Associate Dean of Students
and Greek Affairs Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins said house in-
spection reports have listed dam-
ages that go beyond that of other
houses.

B&G Inspectorlim Boyd said
Beta’s weekly house inspections
have showed more damage than
most other houses.

Boyd said damages have in-
cluded furniture sawed in half,
indoor furniture left outside, party
damage from the basement to the
third floor, damaged light fix-
tures, holes in walls, damage to
the roof gutters and broken win-
dows and doors.

“If the damage continues like
this it won’t take long before
they are back where they were
[before Fraternity Renaissance],
” Boyd said.

Beta’s repair bill for the month I

of March was $1869.91, Boyd
said. Boyd, who inspects all the
fraternity houses, said Beta’s re-
pair bills are usually higher than
the other fraternities.

ButAtkins saidthe Betas have
tried to fix the problems on their
own.

“They’ve tried to do all they
can to straighten it out.”

 

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

Students who eat dinner at the General Head-
quarters will be out of luck next fall.

Gerald Darrell, director of food service, said the
GHQ will close beginning fall term because the
restaurant is not doing good business and the space
can be better used. The GHQ will lose several
thousand dollars in revenue this year, Darrell said.

“When the drinking age was 18 [the GHQ] was

very successful,” Darrell said. “The last two or

three years business has dropped.” -

Darrell said the GHQ is only busy between 1
noon and 12:40 p.m., for lunch, and 5:30 p.m. to
6:30 p.m. for dinner.

When the proposal for the new student center
fell through, Darrell approached Dean of Students
David Howison with a plan to turn the GHQ into
another room, like others in the University Center.

Darrell said after 2 p.m., when the GHQ closes,
the room will be available for catered affairs, bands,
debates or other functions involving a large group
of people. Darrell said he is planning several cater-
ing menus that will cost $6 to $7 per person.

Darrell said he has had to refusepeople who
want a catered event because the University Center
can not currently accommodate them.

“I am turning away 100 people who want to have
a dinner because I have a restaurant to feed 30
people,” he said.

Student Manager Chris Crenshaw does not agree
with the new plan.

“Generally the student employees don’t ap-
prove,” said Crenshaw.

_ I _ ' _ _ _ Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fi/'ng—tum Phi
Junior Nathan Dunn enjoys dinner at the Pit with a friend.

GHQ to close for dinner

Darrell told Crenshaw about the new plans for
the GHQ, Crenshaw said, but he thinks the plans
were already finalized.

“My opinion can only count for so
much,” Crenshaw said. “After all, I’m only a stu-
dent.” ‘ .

Howison said he and Darrell met with a group
of freshmen, including class president Dax
Mahoney, to discuss possible plans for the GHQ.

Howison said Dean of Freshman and Residence
Life Dennis Manning will work with the freshmen
next year to lead the way toward utilizing the GHQ
for nighttime activities.

‘‘If we find out it’s not successful after the first
term then obviously we have to re—think the whole

‘ GHQ,” Howison said.

Crenshaw said he is concerned with how much
work will be available for students with the new
GHQ plan.

Darrell said that won”t be a problem.

“There can be as much, if not more, work down
there at night.”

Darrell said the GHQ will have one manager
and a part-time worker and the rest of the employ-
ees will be students.

GHQ customers are mostly the same people
every night, Darrell said. A big concern was where
GHQ customers would eat dinner, he said.

Darrell said the Co—op will open at 6 p.m.
instead of 8 p.m., or may even stay open the whole
day. He said he wants the Co—op to have a dinner
special, like the GHQ has now.

This year business dropped at the Co—op for the
first time in 24 years, Darrel said.

“There’s just much more competition than there
was before.”

‘Living with HIV’: one 25-year-old’s story

By NANCY PAVLOVIC

knew I could never. tell my parents,”

‘‘It was learning to live for another

“I view myself as having a temii-

thing.”

 

 

Phi Managing Editor

With her chin—lengLh auburn hair
and easy smile, Beatrice von
Guggenbcrg looks like the average
25-year-old with her entire life still in
front of her. But for Beatrice, an en-
tire life may not mean living until
she’s 80. '

Seven years ago, when Beatrice
was a sophomore at Mary Washing-
ton College in Fredricksburg, she got
a phone call from her boyfriend of
three years, Tadd, telling her that the
test was positive; he had HIV. Soon
after, Beatrice tested positive too.
Nothing was ever the same, Beatrice
told the audience gathered in Lee
Chapel Wednesday night. She pre-
sented “Living with HIV, My Story”
as part of AIDS Education Week.

“I felt so alone and so ashamed. 1

  

in school and be-

Beatrice said.“'Ihey had told me God minute, another hour, and then an-

would punish me for no longer being
a virgin.”
ltwasn’tun—
til aftcr Tadd’s
death in June
that she began
dealing with her
own HIV status.
Despite becom-
ing suicidal af-
ter his death,
Beatrice stayed

gan putting her
life together.
Slowly, as she
told more people
about her condi -
tion, Beatrice
leamed that her
life wasn’t over.

Beatrice

other day,”

 

Beatrice said. ‘‘I never
thought l’dlive
to see gradua-
tion day. But I
did and I was
healthy and had
a bright future
ahead of me.”
She enrolled
in the Districtof
C o I u tn b i a
School of Law
for the fall of
1990. After her
first year,

drew because
she knew she

would need
health insur-
ance.

Beatrice with-,

nal illness and there I was in Con-
tracts and Torts thinking ‘ifl was to
die tomorrow would I want to be here
today ?”’ Beatrice said.

That fall Beatrice began working
with the Whitman-Walker Clinic of

"Northern Virginia as a volunteer co-

ordinator. She also bcgan speaking
tours around the country to inform
other people about HIV, AIDS, and
prevention .

“Because so many people don‘t
know their status, we have to act as if
everyone we come in contact with is
HIV positive,” she said.

Education and awareness are the
key to understanding AIDS and HIV,
she said. I

“I know there are still a lot of

people who are uneducated,” she said.
“AIDS has been in this country for 12
years and they still don’t know any-

Often Beatrice thinks about the
disease’s effect on her life and cur-
rent medical opinion. According to
experts, the average person will de-
velop ‘full-blown’ AIDS within seven
to ten years of becoming infected.
Sometimes she wonders ifher time is
running out.

“I have to keep telling myself
‘that’s what those ‘experts’ say’. It’s
hard to remember that I know more
than these experts do because I know
how it affects my body,” she said.

Although AIDS awareness has
increased, people have di fficulty deal —
ing with HIV and AIDS head on.

“It's not as simple as going to an
AIDS seminar or wearing a condom.
lt’s dealing with your own mortality
and admitting that there’s something
out there that could kill you,” Beatrice
said.

PAGE 2

Ellie itttng-tum iﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Use it, or Lose

All week long you’ve been bombarded with AIDS awareness
information. We hope you have been listening and‘ watching.
The truth is, if you’re having sex and you‘re not practicing safe
sex you can get infected with HIV. AIDS is not a homosexual
or drug addict disease, it’s a human disease.

The fastest growing population of HIV positive people are
teens and women.

Experts will tell you f your going to have sex wear a condom,
or have your partner wear one. The very idea of not practicing
safer-sex is ludicrous.

If you don’t protect yourself during sex, you’re having sex
with everyone your partner has had sex with in the last 10 years.

Although wearing a condom greatly reduces your chances of
getting the HIV virus, abstinence is the only proven method of
prevention.

Use a condom, it won’t kill you if you do. But it might ifyou
don’t.

——- F.K.. N.P.

The GHQ (R.|.P.)

It is the end of the month. You paid the last of the bills
yesterday. You have no cash left. Fortunately, you have some
money left on your University Card. Where will you go for
dinner? The Co-op? Not likely. The Co-op is great for lunch
or for a pre-class snack, but not all that good for dinner.

How about the D-Hall? Also not very likely. You've eaten
every meal the D-Hall has to offer at least 100 times. As a matter
of fact, if you see just one more plate of.Tuna Devonshire or
Chicken Cacciatore, you will probably go the way of the
disgruntled Michigan Postal worker.

So where do you go? How about the Pit? Oh yeah, you forgot.
The Pit is closed.

Why is the Pit closed? Because it is losing money. But where
is it written down that the University has to make enormous
profits from student meals?

Recently, University Treasurer Larry Broomall told a jour-
nalism student that Skylark, the University-owned retreat facil-

ity, lo)§t__§.1ﬂQ,QOQ last year.’ You djonftseeg the University closing“ V

Skylark down. So why should the Pitbe closed?

The real problem here is students who use the Pit were never
really asked their opinion about closingthe place. Jerry Darrell
and Dean Howison got together a panel of freshman to decide
the fate of the Pit. When was the last time you saw a freshman
in the Pit? It’s true the Pit isn’t a busy place, but maybe another
solution could have been found if someone bothered to ask the
students who eat at the Pit.

Well, all of you who eat at the Pit on a regular basis will soon
be able to enjoy ﬁne dining at the Co-op. Maybe the university
will even open a restaurant at Skylark.

Quote of the Week

"Thank God it's over."
— VMI’s LAX coach in the huddle after Saturday’s Lee-
Jackson Classic.

Ellie Tiling-tum ilﬂht

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .< . . . . . . . .Whitncy Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring—tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring—tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appearin that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Ex-Spect

My View

By Cameron Humphries

As for the time being, The Ring-tum
Phi remains Washington and Lee’s
paper of record, I am answering Mr.
Pat McDermott’s mischaracteri7ation
of the Hedquist/Spectator affair de-
scribed in an April 29th “My View” in
your publication.

It is hard to believe that half of the
student body wasn’t here when the
affair occurred. l was then editor-in-
chief of the W&L Spectator in March
l99l when our advertising editor in-
formed me that a professor was ap-
proaching Lexington merchants and
“intimidating” them into ceasing their
patronage of the publication. (So meek
were her efforts, however, that she
even lacked the courage to deliver one
letter face-to-f ace, supinely preferring
instead to leave the letter on a
merchant’s countenop while the atten-

- dants were in the back.)

Though I am not schooled in the
finer points of anti-trust law, those who
were informed the Spectator that
Hedquist’s action was, at best, margin-
ally legal. While it is legal to organize
public boycotts or otherwise overtly
protest a business’ activities, it is not
legal to covertly approach one busi-
ness and attempt to coerce them into
ceasing their commerce with a second
business, But this is exactly what
Hedquist did.

I take strong issue with Mr.
McDermott’s characterization of
Hedquist’s “ordeal” with the
Spectator’s “well-known hatred.” It is,
of course, all too characteristicof ultra-
leftists like Mr. McDermott to equate
differences of opinion with hatred, but
for those of us who value people as
much or more than policies, it is pos-
sible to enjoy personal relationships
with those with whom we also share
disagreements.

It is not my disposition to hate.
Thus,despitemydifferenceswithPresi-
dent Wilson, deans Elrod, Howison,
Ruscio, and countless faculty and other
administrators, I nevertheless maintain
strong personal relationships with them.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1993

Among the many fond memories I will
retain of my four brief years at W&L
will be those relationships I held with
so many of whom I was also critical. I
fear, as is so often the case with the
values and traditions of W&L, that this
may not be the case “in the real world.”

Professor Hedquist’s responses to
the entire affair were, however, very
indicative of the real world of which
she is a product. Before the Spectator
printed one word, before the Richmond
Times-Dispatch published one para-
graph, and I assume, before anyone
knew of her activities, the Spectator
approached the professor. Hedquist was
extraordinarily confrontational from
the f irstencounter forwards. She hardly
agreed to see anyone from the maga-
zine at all. When she did, she refused to
explain why she wrote the letters or
whether or not she intended to continue
writingthem. She wouldn’t tell us who
she wrote or how many advertisers she
contacted. Other than repeating that
her “personal correspondence is per-
sonal,” she said almost nothing. We
offered her an unedited article in the
Spectator; she declined. We asked her
to write a letter to The Ring-tum Phi;
she refused. ' ,

The Spectator responded in its April
1991 issue with an editorial once again
asking Hedquist to explain why she
believed attempting to adversely affect
the budget of an independent publica-
tion was an appropriate action for a
university professor. Hedquist re-
sponded by firm g of f a second round of
letters; this time using registered mail.
Reacting to what we had no option but
to perceive as a threat to the financial
stability of the publication, the Specta-
tor adopted an “aggressive position.”
We placed her picture on the cover of
the magazine, we forwarded the story
to the Richmond Tirnes-Dt'spat(:h, and
we’ informed some national organiza-
tions of her activities.

The rest is history.

Personally, though Mr. McDermott
and other like—minded illiberal won’t
believe it, I bear no ill will towards
Professor Hedquist. As far as I’m con-
cerned, the matter between Hedquist

and the Spectator never became per-

sonal. Her colleagues, however, did

not hesitate to make it so. Hedquist’s
superior, Pamela Simpson, used a mis-
understanding within the department,
coupled with a deliberate
mischaracterization of a personal meet-
ing between me and her to offer a gross
exaggeration regarding my character
to the student body via a letter to The
Ring—tum Phi’. She stated quite errone-
ously that I verbally intimidated
Hedquist, interrupted Hedquist’s class,
and treated Simpson with hostility.
Of course, anyone who knows me
recognizes the
charges to «be ut-
terly false, but
alas,_ those who
don't are free to
draw their own
conclusions. I
asked foran apol-
ogy; she refused.
I haven’t spoken

As for Profes-
sor Peck, her em-
barrassments are
already legend-
ary. She, of
course, levied the
stock incitements
againstthemaga-
zine and its edi-
tors: racist, sex-
ist, etc. —- all
without substan-
tiation. No one
spoke out and la-
beled,Peck’s little
effort as yet an-
other example of

‘Diversity,’ Robert
Holland writes, “Drip,
drip, drip.” And with
thetirade on ‘diversity,’
Mr. McDermott, you tell
with hcr»sim=<=-  --«on yourself and other»
members of your self-
righteous, self-styled
clique. If the Spectator
doesn’t contribute to
diversity at W&L, I
don’t know what does.
What could be more
‘diverse’ than a group of
like-minded individuals
coming together to
found a publication, 21
forum, for their ideas.

ator chief denies allegations,

tion, a forum, for their ideas. The
founders of the Spectator sacrificed
time, money, untold grade-points to
produce the first issues. And for that
they were greeted with nothing less
than the hypocritical, unqualified r -
sentment of a small, but vocal, minor-
ity within the W&L community whose
best definition of diversity is to convert
Washington and Lee into one of any
number of small liberal-arts colleges
that currently clutter the landscape of
higher education. The Spectator con-
stitutesadistinbt
voice in the
Rainbow Coali-
tion that Mr.
McDermott so
eloquently de-
scribes. Only
problem 9.4,
we’re not the
rightcolorforhis
tastes.

own, but watch
what you start
calling diverﬂe
and not-diverse,
Mr. McDermott,
lest someone ac-
cuse you of the
same closed-
miiidedness you
aitributetoWtS’d.
at large.

And while
you’re at it, get
your facts
straight, Pat. The
Spectator has al-

her “well known
hatred.” But I’m
sure McDermott wouldn’t call any-
thing that Peck did or said “hate.” Ac-
cording to his letter, that’s just diver-
sity.

“Diversity,” Robert Holland writes,
“Drip, drip, drip.” And with the tirade
on “diversity,” Mr. McDermott, you
tell on yourself and other members of
your self -righteous, self -styled clique.
If the Spectator doesn’t contribute to
diversity at W&L, Idon’t know what
does. What could be more “diverse”
than a group of like-minded individu-
als coming together to found a publica-

ways distributgd
copies to its ad-
vertisers as well as to the student body.
So as for trying to invent some new
justification for Hedquist’s (and Peck ’s,
lest we forget) cheap attempt at totali-
tarianism, be more creative next
time.As for Professor Hedquist, I wigh
her well. But the mistake was hers, not
ours. I regret that she lacks the charac-
ter to tough it out here until the comrnu—
nity was once again willing to accept
her (and eventually W&L would have).
She could leani a lot about diversity

from staying here. And so could yogi,

Mr. McDermott.

Diversity threatens honor system

MY VIEW

By Andrew J. Olmem

as individuals.”

In response to the “My View” by Patrick
McDermott in the April 29 Phi, I find the author’s call
for an increase in politically motivated diversity at
W&L a threat to this unique university. One of the
strengths of W&L is that students, for the most part,
all have a related belief in the ideals of the university,
panicularly the Honor System. This, as we know,
allows for an incredible academic environment that
fosters intellectual achievement and promotes friend-
ship. Take it away, and W&L would cease being an
extraordinary school. It would become another school
where students, divided into their own petty self-
interest groups, have no respect for the institution.
Why destroy an environment which so many students
find advantageous, to accommodate students who do
not believe in it? Instead, students should come to
W&L because they believe in and want to uphold its

ideals.

Mr. McDermott’s advocacy of tolerance and di-
versity has a distinct political slant. He says W&L
should be more tolerant, but causticall y calls thosewho
do not support gays “homophobic.” Would not a more
tolerant W&L be more open to other perspectives,
instead of trying to suppress them with unfair, nega-
tive labels? He defends a teacher who tried to suppress
a student publication that was not of heror his political
persuasion and then calls these students and alumni
who criticize her “intolerant.” The only viewpoint
that deserves tolerance by Mr. McDermott’s stan-

dards is his own.

Also, Mr. McDermott unfairly criticizes the greek
system, implying that it is some kind of social evil

behavior. Students
should be allowed to
choose which organiza-
tion theyjoin. Next, the
greek system is not out
of control. During par-
ties the fraternities take
extra security precau-
tions by having sober
officers and sober driv-
ers available. Regula-
tions by the Hill further
ensure that the greek sys-
tem does not get out of
control. Finally, mem-
bers of fraternities and
sororities understand the
value of being part of a
group and the danger of
being a self-centered in-
dividual. Most members
maintain a good balance

and well-rounded.

which promotes intolerance. “The lack of tolerance,”
he writes, “causes us to maintain and subsidizea greek
system which is totally outof control, so that we might
all fit into the appropriate cliques rather than stand out

First, abolishing the greek system is not tolerant

between their greek responsibilities and the pursuit of
their own individual interests. This adds to the quality
of W&L by making greek members more responsible

If Mr. McDermott really wants diversity he would
not demand that W&L conform to other schools. Real
diversity means some schools are single-sex and
some are co-ed, some are ethnically diverse and some
are homogeneous, some have traditional academic
programs and some have radical academic programs.

erancc.”

Havingavarietyofdifferentstylesofschools is true
diversity, not having every school adopt the same
politically motivated agenda of “diversity and tol-

Education at W&L will not be improved by
promoting tolerance and diversity of the politically

correct brand. Sltf
dents will have to

Members of fraternities and
sororities understand the value of
being part of a group and the
danger of being a self-centered
individual. Most‘ members main-
tain a good balance between their
greek responsibilities and the
pursuit of their own individual
interests. This adds to the quality
of W&L by making greek mem-
bers more responsible and well-'

rounded.

endure spending a
disproportionate
amount of academic
time studying
“homophobia,” and
whatever else is '
“in” politically cor-
rect issue. The more
time students devote
to such needless top-
' icsmcansthelessthey
study important aca-
demic courses such’ '
literature, history, and
mathematics.
W&L ' should
change, but not by
abandoning its suc-

cessful traditions. In-
stead of buildin

walls, more should be done to increase financrt
aid, improve the science facilities, eliminate the
greek fees (which excludes students from the Greek

system), and promote the ideals of Lee. W&L

should not sell out its fine traditions just to improve
its standing in a college guide or to conform to
students’ political persuasion. The bcnef its of a
W&L education have been proven, hence there i!
no reason for W&L to radically change in order to
satisfy college guides

or Mr. McDermott.

~r.4- _ ...J= .1‘-:2’-.'\.".--‘:~-"“‘~

To each his /

Y

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1993

  
  
    
  

Si>'os’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

Note: Spos was not feeling his usual
self this week, having spent the week-
endﬂunting wild alumni with Marlin
Perkins and Ted Nugent. He claims to
have been knocked unconscious at ap-
proximately 4 a.m. on Saturday night
when an empty beer keg was hurled
from the terrace of the Fairfax Lounge
and bounced off his noggin. Fortu-
nattdy, Spos was able to dispatch an
underling to a FAX machine and send
in his ﬁeld report for the weekend ex-
cursion, which we will present in its
entirety. Spos requests that, in lieu of
sending get-well cards or flowers, con-
tributions be sent to "The Spos Memo-
rial.Martyr Fund," care of The Ring-
tum Phi.

Hunting Wild Alumni: a field
study respectfully submitted to The
Ring-tum Phi by M. Perkins, T. Hespos
and T. Nugent.

Wild alumni are an interesting breed.
Scattered across the country in posi-
tions of great importance, wild alumni
are extremely unpredictable and, at
times, very dangerous. The most con-
sistent observation about wild alumni
is that they return en masse to Lexing-
ton,V irginia every spring, presumably
to breed.ln order to study the life cycle
and social habits of the wild alumnus,
we assumed the roles of participant
observers within the natural habitat of
the wild alumnus. We set up camp in
the Corral, pitching tents and assem-
bli t our extremely sensitive observa-
tion equipment (a pair of stylish bin-
oculars —— $75 in the Spring Eddie
Bauer catalog.)

As the alumni began to roll into
town on Friday morning in their
BMW ’s, Miatas and Mercedes Benzes,
our extremely sensitive observation
equipment revealed that the vast ma-
jority of the alumni had brought an

Spring marks wild alumni

interesting variety of intoxicants with
them. M. Perkins suggested that these
alcoholic beverages were offerings to
the god of public embarrassment,
lntoxieata-— bringerof icky upset stom-
achs. (T. Nugent thought this was a
bunch of B.S., but M. Perkins has spent
the better part of his life observing
primitive tribes and wrestling jungle
vermin for Mutual of Omaha’s Wild
Kingdom, so we accepted his hypoth-
esis.)

Friday night brought many insights
into the complicated social structure of
the wild alumnus. At approximately 7
p.m., alumni emerged from their tem-
porary lairs at Holiday Inn, the Keydet-
General, and the Comfort Inn, and con-
verged on the various fraternity houses
in Lexington. Once there, they partici-
pated in a complex social ritual that is
very similar to the “pecking order”
ritual that chickens tend to engage in.

In this ritual, male alumni call atten-
tion to themselves in an attempt to
make other male alumni feel less suc-
cessful. They do this verbally, saying
things like:

“As I’m sure you’ve already heard,
I made CEO last year,” or “I love my
new Lexus. It’s so much better than the
Maserati I was driving last year.”

As the night goes on, the male alumni
make their offerings to Intoxicata by
drinking several alcoholic beverages
and participating in the following‘ reli-
gious rituals:

1) Throwing up on another alum
nus’ shoes, or e

2) Attempting to mate with female
undergraduate students (usually unsuc-
cessfully). . A

Friday night yielded several inter-
esting insights into the breeding habits
of the wild alumnus. At approximately
2 a.m., those powerful alumni that
manage to secure a W&L undergradu-
ate or road-school mate go off to mo-
tels, fratemity houses or the Libeny
Hall ruins in order to nest. T. Nugent
would like to note that it is during this
mating period that the wild alumnus is
most vulnerable. Nugent landed sev-

in

g YugosIa.via.ni-:American.

-‘tin-» 'i:.»t‘.~~i;’l<’:~ ;-:t3t'3rr53ir: A _ M , 4 H , _
Dear Di‘-.’Kirgis and the iift‘e'el.atidnill 'Ijaw"""""“’t"idri‘. Maybe the time has com-é’io start listening and ' sccondis a quotation
‘ paying more attention to the forces outside and in
former Yugoslavia who have something else to say.
No one has to look very hard through Belgrade
University to find a very strong opposition to Slobodan
Milosevic and his peons. American and world univer-
sities are full of very distinguished Serbian and
Croatian scholars who strongly condemn the policies
of “their” governments. They need a chance to be
heard in and outside of Yugoslavia.

The point that one may learn from talks with such
people is, there is no one side to blame in this terrible
war, rather a very small minority representing official
governments. Governments which gained power and
control over their respective republics by feeding
their peoples with lies, fears, rumors and the worst
possible propaganda. That perspective never had a
chance to be represented in your panel. I have spoken
with several people attending the lecture, many of
whom share my assessment of the meeting, including
Dr. KrzystofJasiewicz. Let me finish with the sugges-

Soﬁety:

1 am writing this letter as a Yugoslavian-American
to express my deepest disappointment with the panel
discussion entitled: “Achieving a Lasting Peace in
Former Yugoslavia,” held on April 8, in Lenfest
Center. Under the pretext of an open academic discus-'
sion you have allowed the panelist to flood the room
wiﬁ quasi—inte1lectual rhetoric (Dr. Cohen), and offi-
cial propaganda by Brarikovic and Vujovic (surpris-

ingly to the lesser extent?).

The real shock came in the beginning with your
announcement that the public was not allowed to ask
any questions. My impression about these kinds of
discussions was that it encourages an open discus-
sioa, no matter how controversial it may be. If your
guests requested such a protocol then they should not
have been invited in the ’first place. If that decision
was made by the organizers, then the public should
not have been allowed inside the auditorium and
ultimately we would not feel cheated in thinking we

were welcome.

{is said in the closing statement, the issue at hand
is a very complex one indeed. “Experts” like Dr.
Cohen can never achieve anything but more destruc-

-"...7(.~'l". ..

- 1"-".4 }' .1‘.

disappoint

eral members of the Class of 1943 with
only a bow and arrow, and would like
to add that without hunters to control
their population, wild alumni would
overpopulate their ecosystem and starve
to death over the long, harsh winter.

With the sun’s rise on Saturday, the
devastation of the night before was
revealed to

SGBSOI1

T. Nugent observed one alumnus
who, with the aid of several “Harvey
Wallbangcrs,” had convinced himself
that he was Bob Hope. Swinging at
nonexistant golf balls with invisible
clubs, the alumnus slurred something
about his 9()th birthday drawing near.
T. Nugent put him out of his misery

with a well-placed

us, Large arrow. M. Perkins
mounds of ”  W()lJld  [0 UOIC
aluminum At approximately 7 that the resulting
cans almost - a umni stew was
nine feet in p'm" alu_n““_ernerged “mighty tasty.” T.
height were from their lairs and Hcspos, our ﬁeld
found in the converged on the vari_ guide,wastakenby
middle of me . . surprise when a fly-
su-cets       beer 
front of the Lexington. Once there, stgashed him up-
fraternity ‘ ~ - - si ethehead. For-
houm they participated in a ,u,,a,c1y’T_HeSp0S
Finding complex social ritual was fully insured
an excellent ' ' ' by the nice folks at
specimen of that“is very similar,to Mutual of Omaha.
a [u m ,1 u S the pecking Order He is recovering
in e b r I u s ritual that chickens tend 31i°lC(lyat5t0n°,Wa11
passed out . . ac son Hospital.
on the lawn t? engage "L In H“? Further devas-
in front of ritual, male alumni call tatiosn vtéas evident
phi Dena - on un ay morn-'
Them’ M. attention to themselves mg; Local my
pe,k;nSmea_ In an attempt t0 make cling centers were
aired thg other male alumni feel 0;/Crfltrrwing with
astqtaggc 3 uml um cans.
i, for me, less successful. L,,x,,,g,,,,, police
identifica— officers were vis-
tion, and set ibly Shaken.

it free. We will be able to track the
alumnus in the future via the radio
transmitter attached to his ear. Hope-
fully, this will grant us further insight
into the migration habits of the wild
alumnus.

Further nesting and subsequent
breeding occurred on Saturday night.
Those not engaging in reproductive
activities continued to worship
lntoxicata by drinking beer and cock-
tails. Several alumni were observed
while drunkcnly meandering down the
streets of Lexington, calling out names
of old fraternity brothers or attempting
to find their way to The Palms.

As the alumni departed in thunder-
ing herds, the undergraduate students
and administration of Washington and
Lee let out a sigh of relief. Hopefully,
with the aid of field studies like this

one, we will one day understand the .

bizarre world of‘the wild alumnus.

However, if we are to continue our
studies, we need your help. Please
write your local EC Rep and tell him or
her to keep the bucks flowing. ()r send
your tax-dcductable donation to Mu-
tual of()maha’s Wild Kingdom, Omaha
Nebraska, 60034. This story has been
respectfully submitted by M. Perkins,
T. Hcspos and T. Nugent.

iii

:(.

Shane.

tion how to achieve a lasting peace in my former

country with the inclusion of two recent opinions (I
have many more if you are interested). One is an
article by A.M. Rosenthal of The New York Times and

Interviews and Photos

by Melissa Curtis and Robert Stewart

Layout by Joe Framptom

   

TALKBACK

d.With :‘di$.¢"$$i°"’

'_,ifIi xtliii I.’ 1':-mi’ ...t =  -i‘

The article from The New York Times ,published
on April 6, included Dr. Ana Shane: “l have lost the
country in which I grew up. Criminal elements on
all sides with their atrocious acts have managed to
create a condition of fear, panic, and hate among the
nations which have provcn many times in the past
that there is no hate among them. When people in
our former country understand that their enemy is
not any ethnic group or nationality, but the crimi-
nals and their leaders on all sides, only then it will
be possible to organize together against aggressors
(whoever they may be, or whichever nationality
they belong to).”

I am concluding with hope that in the future our
university will provide more time and space for the
people who support democratic process, and repre-
sent the only hope for peace, no matter how insig-
nificant they appear to be. I can only remind you of
“Solidamosc” and its beginning in Poland.

Dusan Janjic,
Chemistry technician

from myrfriend," Dr; »Ana: .

Bike

The owner of the bike whose
yellow lock was cut last Tuesday by
The Foreign Student film crew
should call 464-3970 to get a new
lock.

Clothes

FOUND: A blue blazer, blue
button-down shirt, and black san-
dals were left in E1 Rodeo by an
extra last week. To claim these
items, call 464-3970.

Film

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will close out the 1992-1993
season with the presentation of Night
on Earth (USA, 1992), directed by
Jim Jarmusch. An all-star cast fea-
tures Winona Ryder and Gena
Rowlands with music byTom Waits.
Showings will be at 8:05 pm on
Friday, May 14 and Saturday, May
15. As always, there is no charge for
admission.

Survey

Students are encouraged to par-
ticipate in an alcohol survey this
week. Please obtain a copy at the
Student Health Service, Mrs.
Calkins’ office, or Dean Howison’s
office. Surveys will also be avail-
able at the Co-op during lunch on
Thursday and Friday.

Women's Forum

Women’s Forum, which usually
meets on Sunday, will be meeting on
Monday, May 17 at 6:00 pm in Ar-
lington Women’s Center. Professor
Novackw ill present, “Images of men
and women in advertising.” All are
welcome!

1 r

I . ;.'.z.‘Jt.L.'..‘l.t/

-‘\rti‘it t'i*'rr~ -1“?

 

. them in the house for the landlord.

(J1-.“..J '..l.) ..-. .

General Notes are compiled ‘by Sarali iV_LVyattV

t14';Ii.t'

Speech

Former Phi executive editor Ri-
chard J. Pelt’/. will have a public
presentation entitled “Context and
Analysis of the Stephen Schmidt
Case and Colegiacion Obligatoria
in Costa Rican Joumalism” on Mon-
day in Reid 203 at 4:30 p.m. The
public is invited.

Yard Sale

Attention Seniors: Do you need
to get rid of your household items
before graduation? 1 am seeking
donations for a yard sale; 1 am able
to pay for some items. Doii’t leave

Call Mike at 463-7501.

Infirmary

There will be no sick call in the
Student Health Center for May 31.
The infirmary will be open, but
there will not be any walk-in sick
calls in the morning or appoint-
ments to see the physician in the
afternoon.

Letters

Letters to the editor may be sent
to the Phi office in room 208 of
University Center. All submissions
will be printed in the order received.
All submissions are due Tuesday at
noon. Anonymous submissions will
not be printed.

Live Drive

Anyone interested in driving or
coordinating for Live Drive please
call Binky at 463-4917.

‘J . l , ,,
mt. ii.|xil .l.4.3.'.t.t-.1...

ill’-"

.“ p nix’ .» ',‘.j‘,..

  
       
   
   
     
 

immediately.

Student Body Notice

Rumors of an assault near duPont Hall last Wednesday

. have been circulating around campus. The Dean of Sttidents

office and University Security said an assault has not been
reported and can not be confirmed.

Director of Security Mike Young said if anyone has

information about an assault, Security should be contacted

  

gizes for the error.

Correction

The staff box in the May 6, 1993 issue of The Ring-turn Phi
should have read Sports Editor, Sarah Gilbert. The Phi apolo-

Now that your Freshman year is almost over,
what was the best part of it?

Helen Chandler, Burlington, N.C.
“Winning ODACs with the tennis

tegni.”

David Meeker, Zanoni, Va.
“Definitely pledgeship.”

Lissa Cockrel, Evergreen, Colo.
“Living on my own.”

 

Robert Turner, Dallas, Tex.
“Playfare during Orientation.”

Chrissy Donnelly, Wayne, Penn.
“Free meals in the D-hall.”

 

Julian Montague, Wilton, Conn.
“When I learned who John Holmes

n

is. -

 

 

Music Review

Pyros break promise,
Cranberries wail soulfully

By REBECCA CRow
Phi Music Columnist

PORNO FOR PYROS
PORNO FOR PYROS
 “(Warner Bros.)

 

Throughout I992 Perry Farrell told interviewers
that his new band, Porno for Pyros, would make a clean
break from his work with Jane’s Addiction. Sometime
between the interviews and the recording sessions,
however, Farrell
forgot that state-
ment.

B e t w e e n
Farrell’s trade-

 

 

THE CRANBERRIES
EVERYBODY ELSE IS DOING

IT WHY CAN’T WE? _
(Island)

The sultry music of this Limerick, Ireland quartet
seems to justify the title of their debut LP. The
Cranberries are led by the sensuous vocalist Dolores
O’Riordan, whose soulful wailing conjures com-
parisons with rock divas like Harriet Wheeler (The
Sundays), Elizabeth Frazer (Cocteau Twins), and
fellow eountrywoman Sinead O’Connor.

Produced by music mastermind Stephen Street
(Smiths, Psychedelic Furs), the overall sound on the
LP is lush with an occasional jangling interlude.

 

FEATURES

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1993

I K i ' ' File Photo
The members of the eclectlc Aquarium Rescue Unit are Jimmy Herring, Col. Bruce Hampton, Apt.
0258, Matt Mundy, Otell Burbridge

mark voice The first

seethinv with singles,

constantTury and ‘ M ""‘°"""’ “Dreams” I .

    0 man s to roe an to

drum m e r ger,’’setup .

Stephen Perkin’s the debut’s

tribal drumbeats, theme of O

  of  w1th Col Bruce Ham ton

Jane’sAddicti0n wounded by 0 P

' can do nothing love. ,

but linger. New I rt . . T
companions, bassist Martyn LeNoble (Thelonious “Dreams” '
Monster) and guitarist Pete diStefano (K-38), bring , the Irish  e  E I   
little variation to the band. mr»..., «ea tzr «-7 4, :- vs, 9.»: .-uf‘ songstress

Therefore, the sound of Jane’s Addiction survives ' explores her
and an)’ dle‘h3Td fan will Pmbablb’ 10“? this LR _ C0I1mTY’S B JEANNE BRIGGS is set for a mid-May release. sic for three decades, during which

Unfortunately, the rest of the population may find deepest music roots. The powerful guitars carry y_ _ The group’s debut album, which time he has Put together three different
that Porno for Pyros falls shortofFarrell’s legacy. The O’Riordan’s_exploration of the need to hidefrom the PI” F°a“”°5 E‘m°r was recorded jive in Athens’ Georgia, groups, The Hamprorr Grease Band, '
lyrics lack the combination of anger, tenderness, and pains of reality in the illusion of dream. T metwith critical success, Rolling Stone TheNew1ceAge,;mdThe Late Bronze
ecstasy found on his earlier works. . “Linger” portrays the shattering of the dream he music of Colonel Bruce magazine gave the album four stars, Age.

The first singles “Cursed Female” and “Cursed world when a woman sees her lover with another Hampton and the Aquarium Rescue saying, ‘‘There’s a truly unique sensi— Colonel Bruce joined forces wiih
Male”exemplify the high—pitched screams and driving woman. “I’m in a misery,” cries ()’Riordan. “You Unit has been called a musical gumbo bilityatwork...Itrocks, swings,smacks, Atlanta locals Oteil Burbridge, Matt
guitars that carried Jane’s classics like “Pigs in Zen” know I’m such a fool for you/ You got me wrapped of blues, jazz, rock, country and bluc- clangs, walks, and runs, this music, Mundy,Jimmy Herring and Apt.Q258
and “Been Caught Stealing.” around your fInger/ Do you have to let it linger?” grass,and the Colonel himselfis known with its eyes rolled back in its head.” to form the Aquarium Rescue Unit in

“Pets” and “Packin’ .25” are strong songs with a In “Pretty” the band follows the self—affirming as the Godfather of Alternative Music. Anna Bentley, ’96, a Jazz DJ at 1987. , T
little more definition and individuality. “Packin’ .25.” tradition of Sinead O’Connor. “Waltzing Back” is The group’s self—proclaimed mission WLUR radio, said, “I first heard Colo- “When I hired these guys I looked
particularly draws on guitar rhythms from the Califor- the most jangly song‘ and also shares roots with is to “capture the joy and spirit of net Bruce whenlplayed him on one of for three things,” Hampton said. “Dis-
nia surf background of guitarist DiStefano. ()’Connor. Southern roots music,” and this Satur— my shows. I liked the sound —- it was position, intention and release. lwanted

The soon—to-be—released “Sadness” is a testament All twelve songs on E verybody Else is Doing I 2, day they will be working their magic upbeat.” sensitive playerswho could listen. We
to Farrell’s passionate frustration. “I got the devil in So Why Can’t We? feature the cries of a woman out at Zollman’s Pavilion. “I enjoy the lyrics — I find them never rehearse and, while we have a
me,” he screams. “lt’s just a cloud/ It’s sadness/ It’s whose love was abused by men. Luckily, the wistful The AquariumRescue Unithasbeen entertaining,” Bentley said. “His mes— format, I’m not sure what it is.”
just a cloud/ then I find eompassion/ and I f1nd/ it andinsistent songs don’tneed to fear abuse front the touring withtheirself-titledalbumsince sage is somewhatenvironmental,andI Col. Bruce and the Aquarium Res- ‘
vanishes.” Let’s hope these lyrics don’t predict too music world. The Cranberries’ debut is a powerful it debuted in early ’92, and their new appreciate that.” cue Unit play at Zollman’s Saturday,
much of the alternative music guru’s future. demonstration of lyrical beauty. album, titledMirrorsofEmbarassment, ColonelBn.1ce has been making mu- May 15 at 8 p.m.

. at . . ’~«“ t
0

    Hamsfeeter

MEANS LOW PRICES

      

  

WORK AT

NOW HIRING FOR

P.C. REGUIAR OR TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE DIET

IT'S VERY CLEAR SPARKIJNG

FIAVORED BEVEIlAGE...... 33.8 OZ.

HEAD & SHOUIDERS

 

.69

' . .
REDUCED PRICE E B  ° I;gIilMIP($& 3/ 95.
    ........................   0
  OUR MYRTLE BEACH BREYER5
CHUCK I AND HILTON HEAD ICE 2/ no
a LOCATIONS ARE CREAM ............ .. HALF GAL.

DANDRUFF A 299'
SHAMPOO... ........... .. ll 02.  

VALUABLE COUPON I,

6.12 OZ. IN WATER

BUMBLE   BEE I
CI-IUNI( LIGI-If TUNA .

I I
I
I

THE suMMER.
IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILTON
HEAD LocATIoNs oR MAIL
APPLICATION TO: st,  

 
 
  
 
        
      
  

 
  

 V -  - ~ -  _ , JERRYALLEN 

  A     T   it      t14‘c"I'tt.‘sI.'§‘II'it'§'.II‘~°¢;
WHOLE  = " ‘- SHOPPING CENTER
ROUTE 2, BOX 288

5M ma  

     
 

   
 
 
   

WITH
COUPON

  LB. . AGRE—°m  .

FIRST or -THE SEASON
VIDALIA SWEET

9'57 P595’ 03 I
ONIONS  

PEPSE COLA EACH I PER BUNCH

2 mm   | BUTTER FRESH

    

REDUCED
PRICE

$10.00 Minimum Purchase. wﬂﬂ Mm
M.,'t‘?5?f3‘9§"°’ '2' "W COUPON coupon
I PLU 2790 PLU 2770

PEP-‘3";',_  .tllltlttl_|ltll_ 

                                  

 

' Ma I8, I993 

May l8,l 3. In Lexington 530,35 ‘

Prices Effective Through

Prices In This Ad Eliective Wednesday, May l2 Tltrou It Tues
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. Noriega

Id To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal rbod Stamps.

 

  

TheiRing-tum Phi, May 13, 1993

       
     
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

. * -7 By Mitrr DILLARD
Phi Staff Writer

This year, 70 Washington and
Lee students worked with Rockbridge
County children in a Big Brother-Big
Sister program at four area elementary

. scﬂools.

Brandon Neblett, '93, chairperson
of the program, said, “The most impor-
tant thing l’ve learned is how to inter-
act and deal with kids. An eight-year-
old sees things differently than an adult,

' and l’ve had toyleam how to be patient

an@ supportive and how to tell when
my younger brother wants to talk.”

W&L students who volunteer to be
a big brother or sister to a Rockbridge
County child generally spend time with
their younger sibling on the weekends
or after school.

Neblett said, “I spend about three
hours a week with my little brother. I’ll
go over to the little guy’s house and
we’ll play basketball or go to Sweet
Things foran ice cream cone. He lives
out of town, and he loves running
around the countryside and exploring
an3 showing me the things that he’s
found.”

One advantage of the program is
that W&L students volunteer to be a
Big Brother or Sister for the year, and

a successful

often students will spend two years or
more with the same child.

“To have an impact on a kid, it has
to be a long-terrn commitment,” ex-
plained Neblett. “When I lirst started,
I realized that you can’t give a couple
of weeks and expect to make a differ-
ence. The biggest thing that we em-
phasize is continuity. It’s important to
fit into the kid’s life.”

“When my little brother is psyched
to have me
show up at his
school or be
with his family
and friends I
know I am hav-
ing a positive

effect on his _ ‘
life," said family and friends I
Neblett. '

..1amab1m know I am having a
fill avoid in his positive effect on his
llfe and Sh,°W life,’ said Neblett.
him what being

..JL__j._.___
‘When my little
brother is psyched to
have me show up at his
school or be with his

W&L students affect littl

someone cares about him.”

‘‘I learned a lot myself and how
important the small things were that I
learned as a child,” Shirley said. “My
younger brother is ten years old, and
he’d never been taught how to ride a
bike or shoot a basketball, so I taught
him and he helped me be more pa-
tient.”

Will Graham, ’94, said, “What l’ve
gained is seeing how rural Rockbridge
County residents
live.”

“My little
brother lives in an
isolated area. I
think my younger
brother really looks
up to me because
l’ve shown him
things that he’s
never done before.
For instance, we
went to the library
one night and rode

adult is all about. I see someone who is
happier now than when I first met him,”
Neblett said.

Other W&L participants have had
similar experiences with their younger
brothers and sisters.

Eric Shirley, ’95, said, “It was en-
joyable to make a young child feel that

up and down the el-
evatorbecause 'ne’d neverbeen in one,”
Graham said.

Miriam Neel, ’94, is one of the few
women who has a younger brother.
She said, “It’s a challenge to come up
with things to do with him because he
is such a ball of energy. I worried
because I thought he’d do better with a

e kids’ lives

big brother, but it has worked out well.
He looks at things differently. When I
am with him, lsee the world from a ten-
year-old perspective and it’s interest-
ing.”

Margie Page, a guidance counselor
at Central Elementary in Lexington,
said, “l’ve been working with the pro-
gram for four years and we’ve gotten
more and more people from W&L to
work with us.” “Some students simply
call and ask ifwe need tutors,”she said.

“The kids are very grateful for the
attention they get. They talk about
their big brothers and sisters and it
really does make a difference,” Page
said.

Neblett said, “The great thing about
this year is that we were swamped with
freshmen and ifwe can get them to stay
with the kids for four years then the
possibilities are endless. Their'expo-
sure tothe different side ofthe world by
dealing with children in an economi-
cally depressed area like Rockbridge
County is something that a lotof W&L
students don’t get.”

“There’s no doubt that an experi-
ence like this helps you be an under-
standing adult and a better parent,” said
Neblett. “It’s been hard to organize
things this year with the big increase in
big brothers and sister, but I think we’ve
done a good job.”

A collection of
artwork by John D.
Morgan, on display
in the DuPont Art
Gallery, features
the use of religious
icons like the Ma-
donna to explore
artistic
such as repetition,
reproduction, the
valueofsolitaryob-
jects. Morgan ex-
periments with the
rearrangement of
images to force his
viewers to look at
reproduction differ-
ently and explore

‘the collective un-
conscious.

themes

~ Hardware, "Paint and Related Items

Upen Mon.-“Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186

 

E. NeIson,St., Lexington

 

  

(305) 949-2380

1/2Rack -$5.99
Queen Cut $11.95

Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served
24 hrs. a day.

4 mile_s North on Route 11
0 We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice and

O

 

Shell 703-463-9730 ' - - v ‘ V 3 
*‘  ' ZZZ1IV;7_;I'ZZIIZ'$--.—'?"""' """"""' W-
. ' _ . | »
Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? , STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792li.PLAllTA'f.I0ll.FL 3331 _ di , _
, -' ' v  . , ' CIU OtI'OnICS
Now you can, have two of the most recognized and  MA51-ERCARDQ cmdu ‘AUDIO . VIDEO . cm srmso
. accepted crcdltvcards inthe worid...visao and Mastucanio I V.‘ '“’a‘_ '“"5"°’ - : DEMON SONY
credit can'.ls..."ln your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cafds_ Enclosed nnd $5 which is 100% refundable ifnot ADCOM , WNE
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNE_D DOWN BEFORE’, I approved immediately. ‘ ' ' . - - - " TOSHIBA MARANTZ
VlSA0and MastcrCard0 the credit cards you I _ ‘ . __ 3  .. ' :g';ToN. g‘g’Fﬁ’NmvE
d°5°"“° ‘"9 "°°d 7-°"T‘ 'D'B°°E'§1sEg$ZA'§Arg§rNT ' NAME  '  .. : ‘KLIPSCH BAZOOKA I
STOREs—TUlTlON— — ‘ ' 
EMERGENCY cAsH—ricKms—REAsg;xzténNArNrs— : ADDRESS A  I | ggmggtgggggrggw ‘
HO,'I'ELS—MOTELS-GAS—-C ALS-— ' _ " _  ,_ _ - TON DEPARTMENT
REPAIRS--AND TO BUILD YOUR cm-zorr RATING! » : CITY _ STATE_— ZIP -—.—-—— : ; 
‘  - '  3,. ._._ ‘Sf: ' - MASTERCARD/VISAIDISCOVER
u “"3 - . . .  ~- _ -
°" “qr: No credit ' : SIGNATURE _ _ . _ _ : (800) 363 4:638. ,
f tar '.
v\:.t'.‘!-==:*:te«. "° ‘°°"'"’ "°°°‘"- . "°’*"l‘.:';'.‘;°.'...,"’ . .  
go 9 Approval absolutely guaranteed so . smug: Association ‘O0./3 °u‘nA,‘"-‘Em | 275°°9 9" R ' °"‘° °
I. __________~___.___________'

    

WET FUN CHARTERS

Vacation, Sailing Adventures

Let. Frank and Anne Show you the Bahamas. we’ll take
you sailing, sight-seeing, snorkeling, and more. Come
vacation"with us in the Bahamas.

Family Tours . . . Groups of Friends. . . Educational Trips

at LEE-HIS

Breakfast BuffetFriday & Saturday
Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
_ All-U-Can Eat $4.99
' Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m.to 2
p.m. A11-U-Can Eat $4.99
Wednesday Night BBQ Night -choice of
potato & vegetable
. Who1eRack- $10.95
‘ Saturday Night Prime Rib

    
     
 

4  |§b.a'd'

      
          
     
     
   
       
     
       
         
      
    
     
         
         
     
   

  

 

King Cut $13.95

 

Photos by Bethany Smith, The Fling-turri Pn.

VARNSER & POLE

115 S. Main $1., Lexington

For your extra pieces of furniture "

 .7‘Fumiture«Dealers '

463-2742

/ .

3’

S

 

 

\

Winters

All

i':>.3N,. Main sf.‘ 1:: -
‘ Lexinton, VA 24450
//////

   

\

Women’s clothing.

//

cuppa

.   1' 
 f (703)463-5988

//// '0

/////// /////

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
S ortswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% 
veryday '- GUARANTEED! We receive. ‘ '. f I '~_
merchandise fromAmerica’s‘ most famous mail ' 1 
order houses. New shipments Every Week! . ‘ ‘ -

It1- Store Wareliouse Sale on Nationally’ Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women_’s Wear." 2 i _ . i

There are reductions from 25- 75% on Men’siand ’

Famous knit to s for women - re 

Now $3.00. Se ected Henley Shirts reduced, to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters - ‘ .

regularly $40 -. reduced to $7.99
‘ Lexington‘-
Downtown (Robert Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30

    
 
 
 
  
   
 

 

    
 

\ 

..

or

 
     

 

lyi$18 -’

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 1
1 Broken bone
protectors
6 Very happy

10 Sings

14 "Aida." e.g.

1 5 Ireland

16 Kind of
sandwich

17 Tanker

18 Young fellows

19 Therefore

20 Raw vegetable
dishes

22 Tropical tree

24 Anna went here

26 University
advisers,

27 Erases

31 Fishing pole

32 Frighten

33 Teases

35 Bishop's
territory

38 Insignificant

39 Hollow stems

40 Heavenly object

 

41 First woman ©1:"93“Tg:>urF;e Maui: Services. Inc. 05/13/93
42 Rot RFD 9 5 939"“ t .
43 Fm high Last Week 5 Puzzle Solved
44 Male turkey 6Solidify _ F L u 3 g 5 A 3 pIA]H |
45 Bridge bid 7 Don't believe
. . . R J P E PA I. A M E D
47 Formidable rival him E B D N ’ E t L L -L A M A
51 Money for the 8 Zeal _,_..i.._ - -
landlord 9Pies and D E N | E l E r H E L
52 Position of cakes M E L R E M 0 V A L
superiority 10 Masticated _E A 3 3___ 5 F A R A L;
54 Large desert 11 Long-legged A G I L 5 J u 3 E A 5 R A
58 Orchestra areas bird To K E R A N E R 0 3 Ti‘
59 B.A. word 12 Special —— -
61 Likea vocabulary 5 Al 5 A c K 3 c .51 A V E
membrane 13 Crucifixes ;- _1_A_B E _K Y 9 A 3 l E 9
62 Old one: Ger. 21 Droop ; s E s A M _ S A ll 
giic-£3090” 93"°TY  Sleelves f  1i_O l\ P S . E ’ S 0 1
me up asure o r
65 Subtraction length  E _ g 2 g E H c  g
word 27 Famous ltalian ' — ' ' '
ssswo.-d family TEARY TAGS R E LY
67 Ginger -— 28 94 05/13/93
29 Window part 39 Think 48 Author Zola
DOWN 30 Take an oath 40 —- Hemisphere 49 Baseball gloves
1 Dove sounds 34 Loafer 42 Flower 50 Discard
2 Samoan port 35 injure with a 43 Musical pieces 53 Cigar end
3 Vend knife 44 Becomes 55 Inter —
4 Government 36 Member of nervous 56 Grate
department ' royalty 46 — Moines 57 God of war
5 Small fish 37 Gaelic 47 Asian country 60 Observe

WLUR Weekly Broadcast Schedule

Morning Mag (Rock): Monday - Friday, 6:30-9:30 a.m.

Jazz: Monday 9-1 1 a.m., Tuesday/Thursday/Sunday 9-l2p.m., Wednesday
- Friday 2-3:30 p.m., Saturday 9-12 p.m. p
Country: Monday — Friday 12-2 p.m. Saturday—Sunday 3-6 p.m.
Breakthrough: Monday - Friday 3:30-6 p.m.

Classic Rock: Wednesday 9-12 p.m., Saturday 9 a.m.—12:30 p.m., Sunday
12-3 p.m.

Classical: Tuesday/Wednesday/Friday 9-1 I p.m., Monday — Thursday 6-9
p.m., Friday 6-8 p.m., Sunday 9 a.m.-12 p.m., 6:30-9:30 p.m.
Inspirational: Monday 2-3130 p.m., Friday 12-1 :30 a.m., Saturday/Sunday
6:30-9 p.m.

Dance/Rap: Tuesday 2-3:30 p.m., Friday 8-I2 p.m., Saturday 1-2:30 p.m.
Third Ear: Monday — Friday 12-1:30 a.m., Sunday 12-1:30 p.m.

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

For Rent:

1 In Lexington, available June 15
1 4 B.R. home, 3 B.R. home,

1 B.R. duplexapt. Call Mike
Flint at Whiteside Realty 463-1187 J

\\

1-.

V

1870 Washington College Diploma
 - signed "R.E. Lee”

- — Signatures:

Fitzhugh Lee RE. Lee. Jr.

M. Miley John Letcher
' Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate. hand-colored ‘ . V
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art .
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
. Mary and George Washington pieces

  

4.East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 464-6464

I lllllllllilllﬁ
  lllilllllll

Open Monday -,Saturday

10 a.m. - 5:30 p'.'m_. 

 

 

 

 

 

11 W. N elson Street , Robby J ones
Lexington, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022
_‘.

1:.

 

  
 

Last Week:

MLax-—W&L 9, Roanoke 8;
W&L"18, VMI 3
WLax—Trenton St. 18, W&L 4

S

PAGE 6

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁhi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK 8: FIELD

 
  
  

This Week:

M&WTennis—at NCAA Champs.
MLax—at Ohio Wes. 5/16 '

MAY 13, 1993

   
     
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
    
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
    

 

     

Douoguih does it again for W&L lax

By KE1'lII GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Twenty-four hours after walloping VMI in the Lee—Jackson
Lacrosse Classic, the Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team
earned its third-ever bid for the eight—team NCAA Division 111
tournament. '

The Generals (12-2) will play at Ohio Wesleyan University on
Sunday at 1:00 p.m. The Bishops (10-1) are the tournament’s fourth-
seeded team.

Although Washington and Lee’s two losses this season came
against two of the tournaments’ field, the Generals defeated fourth-
ranked Roanoke College, 9-8, at Wilson Field lastThursday. The win
gave them the Old Dominion Athletic Conference title and eamed the
team the bid that would otherwise have likely gone to Roanoke.
Senior goaltender Brian Murtagh had one of his best perfor-

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
   

Photo by Darran Winslow, The Ring-tum Phi
Senior Wiemi Douoguih dominates the field in the
Generals’ May 6 victory over Roanoke.

  

mances, stopping 19 Maroons’ shots in front of thecrowd of 2700
spectators- Senior captain John Hunter scored three times in his final
home game.

W&L raced to a 5-1 lead in the second quarter and never trailed.
Roanoke closed to within 5-3, but a Washington and Lee score just
before half-time provided the Generals with a three-goal lead.

W&L held a 9-6 lead late in the game that put the hometown fans
in a celebratory mood. Although the Maroons made things interest-
ing with two more scores—the second with 15 seconds left—the White
and Blue ran out the clock for its sixth conference win and the title.

The championship was the second in the past two years for W&L.
in the ODAC’s first eight seasons, Roanoke went undefeated versus
conference opponents and won each title. However, the Maroons
have been held to only two ()DAC crowns in the last five years.

The matchup with Ohio Wesleyan is considered an excellent draw
for the Generals, who entered the Roanoke game ranked tenth in the
nation. Washington College (1 1-3), who defeated W&L 12-10 ear-
lier this season, has the unenviable task of opening against top-seeded
Salisbury State (13-0). The winner will face the winner of the W&L-
Ohio Wesleyan game in the semi-finals.

The Generals appear to be entering the tournament playing their
best lacrosse of the season.The team’s last three victories were versus
Division I Mount St. Mary's College, Roanoke, and Division I VMI.
The 18-3 win at VMI’s Alumni Memorial Field last Saturday was the
biggest blowout in the Lee-Jackson Classic’s six-year history.

In that game, Generals’ senior attackman Wiemi Douoguih tied
the nine-year-old school record for goals in a game with eight. He has
scored 25 goals in W&L’s last five contests. This week, Douoguih
was declared the ODAC’s Player of the Year, the second General to
receive that honor.

son Classic at VMl’s Alumni Memorial Field.

Next stop for women’s hoops?

Only time will tell as W&L basketball team achieves varsity status

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

After becoming the winningest of the three college-level bas-
ketball squads in the booming metropolis of Lexington, Virginia,
where’s a girl to go? The Final Four? Disneyland? Varsity‘?

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball team, for now,
will take the third option with open arms. After only three years,
senior Courtney Smith’s brainchild has become a winning club,
going 7-5 during the 1992-93 season.

Next year, the brand-new team will play 21 games as a Division
111 independent and, in 1994-95, will join the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

History professor Barry Machado and Earl Edwards of the
W&L computer center served as volunteer coaches for the fledg-
ling team.

“Weset as our goal to get the ball rolling,” Machado said. “We
hoped to show that there was a genuine interest.

“The conventional wisdom was that [W&L women] weren’t
hard—nosed enough to play basketball. They demonstrated beyond
question that there was a- readiness to develop, improve and
compete.”

Not only did the Generals compete, they succeeded. They
rounded out their season with a second place at the Virginia-North
Carolina Tournament at Mary Baldwin College, losing to nation-
ally ranked Meredith College.

“We had a few shaky games, but we came on strong at the end
of the season,” said Machado.

Washington and Lee is conducting a nation-wide search for a
coach who will take the responsibility for both the women’s
volleyball and basketball teams, to be named June 1. The new
coach will have a strong base (though wholly made up of walk-
ons), as only one current player, Smith, will graduate this year.

“Having a coach who can actually recruit players will help,’
said Machado.

Basketball, as the eighth women's varsity sport at W&L, hopes
to rival the meteoric rise of the rest of the Lady Generals.

“This is an exciting time for W&L athletes; if [the basketball
team] can measure up to the maturity of the women’s lacrosse
team, it will be well worth it,” said Machado.

The maturity level of the women’s basketball team, even with
its present club status, should not be underestimated.

“What stood out was how many players on the team made great
strides,” said Machado. “We genuinely looked like a basketball
team at the end of the season.”

7

Sogpwve 3a.om£TH£
W!NNW¢5l£5T 'r£Am no
L‘I'—$4NﬁTbN- HON wt-MT
AR?-350% faowéfb Do?

I passing ability, I don’t think you can keep him from getting it," said

Guilford College assistant coach Mike Ketchum thinks that Ohio
Wesleyan’s best chance to win is to prevent Douoguih from gegting
the ball. At the same time, though, he doesn’t think it will be possible.

“You have to deny him the ball, but with his size and the team’s

Ketchum. ‘

Douoguih’s scoring surge has put him into a position to reach
some ofW&L’s long-standing records. His 47 goals this season are
the most by a General since Rob Morgan set the present record '53
goals in 1975. Douoguih’s 72 points are the sixth highest single-
season total for a General, 13 short of the record which was also set
in 1975, by Don Carroll. The senior is also just two goals short of
becoming only the fifth General to net 100 for a career.

Joining Douoguih with All-()DAC honors are Hunter, Murtagh,
senior Josh Levinson, and senior Kirk Olsen. It is the second time that
five Generals have achieved that distinction. V

The Generals and Ohio Wesleyan are no strangers to one anofner.
The Bishops knocked W&L out of both of its previous appearances
in the Division III toumament.

After the Generals defeated Ohio Wesleyan during the 1987
regular season, the Bishops routed W&L 17-4 in the toumament’s
semi-finals. In ’91, Ohio Wesleyan defeated W&L both during the
regular season and in the toumament’s quarter—finals. The Bishops
have won the last five meeting between the two.

Although both schools’ offensive, defensive, and goaltending
statistics are very even, the Bishops tallied wins over Division 1
Michigan State, 13-1 1, and Division I power Notre Dame, 13-8.

However, Ketchum thinks W&L might come away with a win.

“[W&L] has better athletes,” he said. “They’re deeper and faster.

    
   
 

  

  



  
   

ondalc - - on ck it

   ‘ Lexington Bike Shop I

  

   
   

Jansport daypacks and book bags ' I ,

INTERNATIONAL

E M P LO Y M E NT
Make money teaching basic

1 give them a good chance [to winl.”

   

Photo by Darran Winslow, The Ring-tunbPhi
Douoguih shoots past his VMI opponent, scoring one of his school-record eight goals in Saturday’s Lee-Jack-

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

W()MEN’S
LACROSSE

Afterits meteoric rise to glory,
the Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team fell at the
murderous hands of f irst-ranked
Trenton State in the Generals’
first-ever National Collegiate
Athletic Association Division 111
tournament appearance.

W&L fell 18-4 to the Lions,
after holding them scoreless for
nearly 14 minutes in the first
half. A 7—lrun by Trenton St. at
the close of that half, however,
was the Generals’ downfall, and
they never recovered.

Senior Lisa Dowling scored
both of W&L’ssccond-half goals
for a school-record season total
of 81.

TRACK AND FIELD

Washington and Lee
trackstcrs ran away with it all at
University of North Carolina
Saturday.

Not only did both the men’s
400- and l600—meter relays teams
achieve National Collegiate Ath-
letic Association national provi-
sionally qualifying times, but the
1600 relay broke a school record
that has stood since 1939.

As if the men hadn’t done
enough, freshman Josephine
Schaef f er continued on her head-
long rush to track and field glory
by bettering her provisionally
qualifying time in the 10,000-
meter run.

Schaeffer shaved 36 seconds
off her previous time, obtained at
the Duke Invitational in April,
finishingin 37:34.9l.She willbe
notified May 23 whether or not
she will race at the National com-
petition at Baldwin-Wallace Col-
lege in Berea, Ohio.

She placed third in the race.

Juniors Scott Covey and Tohn.

Robinson, sophomore Hayne
Hodges and freshman Dax
Mahoney need only to decrease
their time of42.46 seconds in the
400 relay by 46 one-hundredths
of a second to qualify automati-
cally. ’

“We have a chance to run the
automatic qualifying time if we
get our hand-offs a little faster,”
said coach Norris Aldridge. “i
think we have a good shot.”

Equally amazing was the 160()
relay team of senior David
Phillips, sophomore Grant
Cowell, Mahoney and Robinson,
whose time of 3:18.45 in the
longer relay was better than a
time of 3:19.4 set by the 1939
squad in the mile relay.

“They ran well,” Qaid
Aldridge. “If they get in [to the
NCAAtoumament],they’llhave
a shot at making the top eight,
which they have to do to make
All-American.”

TENNIS ‘

Members of both the men’s
and women’s tennis teams will
be flying north in the coming
week to compete against the best
of the National Collegiate Ath-

» letic Association Division II . _
Sophomore Marilyn Ba er

will compete tomorrow and Mon-
day at Carleton College in St.
Paul, Minnesota. This will be
Baker’s second straight trip to
the championship.

Junior Robby MacNaughton
and freshman Peter Hamm8nd
will travel to Kalamazoo, Michi-
gan to compete May 17-24 in the
men’s competition.

MacNaughton will compete
in the singles portion of the tour-
nament, and he and Hammond
will join forces to play in The
doubles tournament.

YOU DON’T HAVE
TO DRINK

463.7969 conversational English abroad.

We’ll make you look good!
Come to us for all of your design needs.
Ads, ﬂyers, logos, resumes, faxes, and quick copies.

E PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX #: 463 - 6918 lg
125 w. NELSON ST. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

        

130 sf. Main St. Mon.-Firi. 9-'5/Sat. 49-12 Noon

 

Caring, stable single female
school teacher desires to
adopt a baby. Financially secure.
Can provide loving 8: fun family.
Call collect 804-572-8403 or
write P. O. Box 655, South Boston.
VA 24592.

Japan & Taiwan. Make up to

Many provide room 8: board +
other benefits! No previous
training or teaching certificate
required! For employment
ramcall: ‘
(206) 632-1146 Ext. J5342

$2,000 to $4,000+ per month.

TO RIDE DRUNK. '

Medicine can affect your balance, co
ordination, and vision as much as
alcohol. After drinking or taking med-
ication, don’t ride.That‘s

the best safety prescription. § '
Motoncvcts sltrm rouunmoii 9

  

