THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHlNGTON*& BEE UMVERSHW!
l EXINGTON. VA. 24460

NOV 2 0 l992

BANG! YoU’RE DEAD!

W&L Students Get A Taste
Of A Paintball Adventure

Hoyos hold W&L to five wins

Generals post
first winning season
since 1988

0


\

Clltiz ‘tlttng-tum liﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

SBA gives ACLU $100

Law leaders vote 5-3-1 for funding despite EC policy

EC President Josh MacFarland said that MacFarland said that the SBA might be
although the SBA receives funding from the setting a dangerous precedent.

EC, it isanindependent orga— “We may have to come to a
nization. reconciliation on these policies,”

The Student Bar Association voted Mon- “We give the SBA free rein MacFarland said. “The last thing I
day to fund the W&L chapter of the Ameri- to give out funds,” want to seeis groups back-dooring
can Civil Liberties Union, despite an Execu- MacFarland said.“They know the EC by going to the SBA.”
tive Committee policy against funding parti- better than us what law stu— ACLU President Andrew
sari groups. dents want.” Schneider said the SBA decision

SBA President Amy Balfour said the SBA MacFarland said any other was prompted bylaw students who
board voted 5-3 with one abstention to give student group would not be were angry at the EC decision not
the group $100 because there are enough law able to fund a group the EC to fund the ACLU.
school students in the group to merit support. had rejected, but the SBA is Schneider said he hopes the
The SBA received $46,000 this year from the different because it has inde-  ' ACLU will not have to circum-
EC, which denied funding to the ACLU. pendent sources of funding. ' Balfour vent the EC in the future.

“We give $100 to any new club if it seems He said the EC gives back to “I hope the people elected to
like it’s serious and there are a substantial the SBA approximately the student activity the EC next year will be more favorable
number of law students involved,” Balfour fees that law students have paid. towards the ACLU,” Schneider said. “Butwe
said. She said 18 law students are in the “It’s not an exact equation, but that’s the can’t operate without money, soif we need to
ACLU. thinking,” MacFarland said. go to the SBA, we’ll go to the SBA.”

EC approves
contact fund

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

’\R>LuME 92, NO. 11 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA NOVEMBER 19,1992

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

Photo by Mallory Meyers, Te mg-tum Phi

W&L contributed $50,000 toward the $250,000 price of Lexington’s new fire truck.

ar tax stresses
W&L-city relations

55 V h
at-a~c-sets--ms   

H“ Staff Wm“ But Lexington officials say they need to collect
.5 the tax because of they are f inacially stressed.

Relations between Washington and Lee Uni- Mayor H.E. “Buddy” Derrick said the city
versity and the City of Lexington are strained, and holds no hard feelings toward the university, but
W&L President John D. Wilson blames the car tax maintains that the city will do whatever is neces-
for the majority of bad feelings. Sary to Collect the Car tax.

“I think the city officials are unhappy with me,” Derrick said most people do not realize
Wilson said. “I’m certainly unhappy with them.” Lexingt0n’S difficult Situation.

0 Wilson said W&L refuses to turn over a list of “We’re very limited in our sources of revenue,”
students’ cars to the city commissioner of revenue, he said.

citing student privacy rights.
But he said police are allowed
to enter university property
and record license numbers.

But Wilson believes the
ﬁity does not need to collect a
car tax from students because
of W&L’s voluntary contri-
butions to the city, including
anannual “grant” of $40,000.

Lawrence Broomall, uni-
versity treasurer, said W&L

~ sdvoluntarily pays the city
‘ 3,000. About half of that
sum is adonation for services
which the city provides to the
university.

The rest of the payment is
approximately the amount of
real estate tax which would

e paid on the fraternity
houses if they werenotowned
by the university. University
land is tax-exempt.

Over the years, W&L has also given the city
money for special projects. Broomall said W&L
éave Lexington $100,000 for construction of

ockbridge County High School and is donating
$50,000 over five years for the fire departrnent’s
new snorkel truck.

Derrick said Lexington
is only 2.5 square miles in
area. He said 40 percent of
property in the city is owned
by colleges, churches or
schools and is non-taxable.

The per capita income in
Lexington is lower than the
rest of the state’s, Derrick
said, while the average age
of city residents is higher.

The lack of revenue
sources and the high cost of
living in Lexington, Derrick
said, forced the city to pur-
sue aggressively the taxes
they are already owed. He
said every year the City
Council is faced with a tight
budget and decisions on
what should be cut.

Meanwhile, The Wash-
ington Post reported that
George Mason University students received car
tax bills from Fairfax County, one year after the
county subpoenaed student records, according to
the Rockbridge Daily Press.

The Post said the GMU student government
will try to negotiate with the county government to
reduce or eliminate the tax. ’

After seven weeks of discussion, the Executive Com-
mittee Monday established a fund to help small student
groups bring speakers to campus.

The EC set up the Contact Co-sponsorship Fund in
response to the requests during the budget process by
small groups for money for speakers. EC President Josh
MacFarland said then that he was concerned there would
be speakers on campus with conﬂicting schedules.

The EC voted in October to create a fund under
Contact, a student group which brings speakers to cam-
pus, to aid small groups in funding speakers.

On Monday, the EC finalized the way the fund will
work. The money for the fund will be in a separate account
which can be accessed by the Contact president and the
EC representative to Contact.

The EC will designate groups allowed to petition
Contact for use of the fund each fall. This year, the EC
desiganted the Minority Student Association, Amnesty
International and Women’s Forum.

, EC Junior Rep. Ashby Hackrtey, the EC representative
tr to Contact, said Contact was talking to groups about
photo by Ma”°,*y Meye,s_ 7-he R,-,,g_,u,,, phi speakers before the fund was even finalized. _ _

“Everything 1S going real well,” Hackney said. “[Dis-
cussions] have gone well with MSA.”

Several EC members said the fund is designed to create
competition among designated groups.

Hackney said it will be the responsibilty of clubs to
solicit Contact support for speakers.

“It's not Contact’s job to go and out and say, ‘Hey, let
us find you a speaker,” Hackney said.

Survey says go Greek at W&L

W&L also ranks high for homophobia, number of gays in closet

He’s too sexy

Beta Theta Pi member Justin Gilken gyrates to House of Pain’s
“Jump Around" at the Kappa Alpha Theta Gong Show Wednes-
day night. Beta placed second in the contest.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The R/'ng—tum Phi

Pulling their weight

3 The Phi Gamma Delta Intramural tug-of-war team strains its
way to victory during halftime at Saturday's football game.

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee has the most
popular fraternity system in the nation,
according to a recent survey by the
Princeton Review.

But the number one ranking in the
Princeton Review’s fall college guide
doesn’t surprise most W&L students.

“[The ranking] makes perfect sense
to me,” said junior Alex Ruskell, who
joined Sigma Phi Epsilon this fall. “So
many males seem to be part of the
fraternity system here.”

About 85 percent of men and 60
percent of women belong to one of
W&L’s 16 fraternities or four sorori-
ties.

Princeton Review Publications Di-
rector Cynthia Brantley said the col-
lege guide was compiled after more
than 28,000 students at 245 colleges
responded to a 67 -question survey. Stu-
dents ranked aspects of campus life
from the popularity of the Greek sys-
tem to the quality of the libraries. More
than 100 W&L students participated in
the survey, Brantley said.

The Princeton Review also consid-
ered surveys from more than 40 col-

lege counselors in the rankings.

Ruskell said W&L’s size, lack of
social options and long history of fra-
ternities traveling to women’s colleges
puts priority on joining a fraternity.

According to the Princeton Review,
schools with populations near 1,500
usually have a largely Greek social
life. Students who arehappywith Greek
life are usually middle class conserva-
tives, the Princeton Review said. The
guide lists W&L as the 18th most con-
servative campus in the nation.

SeniorLiz Miller said tltatpeerpres-
sure pushes many students to join a
fraternity or sorority.

IFC to enforce guest lists

“Once [freshmen] get here, they see
how strong the frat system is,” Miller
said. “If they want to be part of some-
thing and meet upperclassmen, they
need to join.”

W&L has the fourth most
homophobic campus in the nation, and
ranks second in the number of gays still
in the closet, the Princeton Review
said.

“It’d be hard to be gay on a conser-
vative campus like this,” said one W&L
student who wished to remain anony-
mous. “[Being gay is] just not an ac-
ceptable way of life around here. I’d
stay in the closet too.”

Frosh group

determined

Chapter liability insurance prohibits fraternities from
buying or serving beer, Atkins said. The BYOB rule would
reduce liability of fraternity houses and discourage under-

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

~ GALA founder is a

, ‘no-show at hearing

A

1

By J USTIN MACNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

A judge dropped assault and battery
charges against Charles Gay, ’89, when
W&L Gay and Lesbian Alliance
founder Sean Bugg failed to appear in
court Tuesday.

The charges by Bugg, '89, stemmed

,from an incident Homecoming week-
end at Sigma Nu. Bugg and Gay are
both Sigma Nu alumni.

Bugg charged Gay with assault and
battery. Bugg alleged that Gay yelled,

_t

“You’re not welcome here,” then
punched Bugg in the face.

Bugg said Wednesday he could not
get to Lexington Genral District Court
for the trial because his ride to Lexing-
ton fell through. ‘

Bugg said he would have liked to
press the charges but said he did not
mind that the case was dropped since it
was drawing negative attention for
GALA.

“It’s ﬁne with me,” Bugg said.

“Besides there are more important
things in the world to deal with than a
homophobe from Georgia,” Bug g said.

Open doors and beer on arrival at Washington and Lee
fratemity parties might be things of the past come winter
term.

At a Nov. 9 meeting, Interfratemity Council President
Sam Rock said the IFC should start enforcing the guest list
and “bring your own beer” policies written in the IFC
constitution.

Rock said that Kappa Alpha and Phi Delta Theta will be
expected to follow these rules when their social probations
expire after Christmas break, so other houses should also.

“It’s only fair to enforce [the policies] as a whole sys-
tem,” Rock told the IFC. “I don’t feel just making KA and
Phi Delt adhere to these rules is right when the constitution
says we all have to abide by them.”

Fraternities would be required to have a guest list at the
door during parties, Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said. Atkins said the goal of
guest lists is to cut down on party size.

age drinking.

Atkins said each fraternity
should begin to abide by the
rules themselves, but that the
IFC would step in and regulate
when needed.

But some W&L students are
distressed by the possible en-
forcement.

“The thing I like aboutW&L
as opposed to other schools is
that parties are so open,” junior
Sarah Wyatt said. “ [Open par-
ties] make social life more of a
community thin g..”

Sigma Phi Epsilon sophomore Brian Hucks said that

there are ways around the guest list rule.

“Technically, we have a guest list for every party,”

Hucks said. “It’s the student Register.”

to build unity

By MICHAEL Hawusrr
Phi Contributing Writer

A recently created Freshman Lead-
ership Council will aim to promote
class unity.

Dean ofFreshmen and Residence
Life Dennis Manning said the 10-mem-
ber council will aim to provide more
activities for the class.

Manning said he hopes the council
will provide leadership in many areas,
especially community activities.

Council member Kristen Cavros said
the council will survey the freshman
class to determine what activities the
group should undertake.

PAGE 2

    

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬁlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Follow the dollar

Many years ago. when the ozone layer still filtered the sun,
Lexington entered along, long-term no-armexation agreement with
Rockbridge County. That means city limits stay put.

But things change.

With the advent of market giants like Wal-Mart and Kmart,
business started leaving the city. And the county was, and still is,
appealing to new settlers, for its tax scheme and its zoning laws,
among other reasons.

While businesses ran for county land with the zeal of 19th-
century Homesteaders, Lexington was left to ponder just what went
wrong.

“Why look at that W&L student in a BMW!” the concerned
mayor must have said one morning as he pulled into his car
dealership to spend the day selling cars to people who would have
to pay car taxes.

Finally somebody put two and two together and realized
that taxing student cars equaled a lot more than four. And by gosh,
it's relatively legal. 0

The car tax was born.

We tried to be compassionate. “Hell, no,” we said. And
President Wilson refused to turn over the list of student cars.

When the bills came anyway, students organized a boycott
of city businesses to let Lexington know just what our commerce is
worth. At the last minute, the EC president, Tom Hatcher, called off
the boycott at merchants’ urging and agreed to try one more time to
talk to the city.

Oh, you should have seen the smiling faces at City Council
when Hatcher visited them. .They were thrilled that the boycott was
called off.

But they didn’t listen to a word Hatcher said.

We took the torch from there, encouraging students last
year to call the mayor at home (463-4066) to express their senti-
ments. Alas, the mayor was on vacation that weekend.

A This year, an EC member, whom we will not embarass by
naming, came up with the brilliant idea of students working off their
car tax with community service. The young fellow misses the point.

There’s one reason and one reason only why the city is
pursuing the car tax issue. Follow the dollar.

If for any reason the city believed taxing student cars would
not be cost-effective, they would not do it. Don’t be fooled by the
rhetoric that they are just obeying the law. They overlooked the car
tax before, and they have the power to do it again. The state will not
force the issue.

That means we have one way and one way only to combat
the car tax. Hit’em in the wallet.

And there’s no one in a better position to do that right now
than our university. _ .

«   ."1 :.:'  ~:‘:"“'1'c‘. 
u::But.W&L. is straddling a fence tltat’s-grown~soi.higli-

President Wilson’s feet are dangling in‘the air.’ ‘ ’ ' " , ,

Thanks, President Wilson, for not handing over the list.
Thanks for showing concern. Now try doing something.

The university voluntarily gives the city more than $83,000
annually to compensate for tax-free property. We paid $100,000 to
help build the consolidated high school. And we're paying $50,000
for a new fire truck.

Those things are all very nice, but why not let the car tax pay
for them?

Most students who pay car taxes at home face a lot of
hassles when they tell their localities they want a “refund. " And
those who don’t pay personal property taxes on a car at home pay
other fees that are higher; they won ’t get any refund at all. Moreover,
students should not have to surrender their home voter registration,
where many pay income taxes in the summer, to avoid taxation
without representation. '

.It seems that administrators are straddling the fence with
the same motive behind the city's conduct: money. Capital projects
are a lot easier to swing by the city fathers while W&L makes annual
“gifts” to the coffers. But students do, after all, pay tuition, and many
grow up to be wealthy alumni.

The honeymoon is over, President Wilson. If you’re not on

"the student’s side, you’re on the city's side. No more talking rebel

rhetoric to us while you’re signing checks payable to Lexington. It’s
time to pull tight the purse strings and tell the city to settle in for a
cold winter.

 

Soggy sip,  con.

/ malt Lrsr H4:
6:14:16-Sb since -i-HE‘
U-'-‘- 4011' IMPOxI'lN6v

HERO! WINES.

/

Exciting years ahead

MY VIEW
By Richard Hill, ’93

Bill Clinton will be the next Presi-
dent of the United States. So what?

The important thing is coming to-
gether. George Bush conceded defeat
graciously and Clinton accepted vic-
tory in kind. For those of us who op-
posed Clinton’s election, for whatever
reason, it is a time of soul-searching for
ourselves and for the nation. It has been
a long and bitter election and we have
all——in some way or another—been
involved in this election (some, myself
-included, more than others). For some
it meant voting for the first time, for
others it meant voting for and standing
behind a candidate other than Clinton
or Bush. And for the entire nation it has
meant change. But we carmot allow the
results of this election to divide the
nation.

OnNov. 1 1, 1940, Wendell Wilkie———
recently defeated by Franklin
Roosevelt—— addressed the nation on
radio to heal the wounds of a bitter and
hard-fought campaign. He called for
unity behind Roosevelt, but reminded
America that there must always be a
“loyal opposition.” In a few short
months, Mr. Clinton have a majority in

. both houses. of t.he.Congress, but he will . ..
’ also have a “loyal opposition,” made up

of 57 percent of the people who voted
in the election. This opposition will
support Mr. Clinton out of respect for
his achievement and for his office. Po-
litically, however, Clinton will have to
prove himself in a big way. Having no
mandate (despite what headlines and
the TV say, I would hardly call 43
percent of the vote a mandate) Clinton
will be expected to do exactly that
which he promised: to change this
country.

Based on the expectations of the
people, it could be a long four years for
Mr. Clinton. If he is successful in bring-
ing about change, then he will beviewed
as a savior. The economy is what mat-
ters most to the average American, not
politics. If you don’thave a job and can
barely afford to feed your family, you
probably don’t give adamn how Clinton
plans to pay for his policies. This has
been demonstrated time and time again,
most notably in 1932 and 1980. Two
weeks ago, the American people dem-
onstrated that they want change for its
own sake. Only time will tell the effect
that President “Change” will have on
our great nation. I wish him the best,
because he is going to need it, espe-
cially to prove to the majority of Ameri-
cans who didn’t support him that he
really is different. The next four years

Jnay not 100.1: inviting. bu.t;they.cannot-.-
help but look exciting-

The Ring-tum Phi, November 19,1992 ‘

Hostage to the truth}

WASHINGTON — Caspar
Weinberger, 75, threatens to become
the last human payment on the Iran
arms-for-

the Iranian arms-for-hostages scanﬁal '

broke, Bush refused to tell the whole to

truth of what happened. Just days be-
fore election, ‘

hostages herefusedto
deal. With admit to
S,,, felony CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS Larry King .
indictments . . . even that e
for lying ,0 Tribune Media Services Unitedsm es 3
Congress had know- ,
and ob- ingly sold .

structing its investigation, the former
defense secretary may see the rest of
his life divided between an excruciat-
ing court battle and a life-ending con-
finement in federal prison.

No one who honors justice or re-
spects public service should permit this
perversion of the legal system to run its
course. Weinberger has devoted much
of his life, in both California and Wash-
ington, to the good work of democratic
government.

He deserves better than to spend his
precious later years as one more hos-
tage in a war of revanchism, launched
by revolutionary Iran against America,
then continued here in this country in a

arms to Iran in ’86 with the purpose of
getting our hostages out. .-.

“To this day, you ask Ronald ,
Reagan, ‘Was it arms for hostage .’ 4
and he’ll say ‘No!”’ Bush told the ta -
show host.

Yet in passing the buck to his off-
stage predecessor, Bush ignores what
Reagan himself told his country in a
national television broadcast March 4,
1987: * p

“A few months ago,Itold the Am<!i-
can people that I did not trade arms for
hostages. My heart and my best inten-
tions still tell me that’s true, but the
facts and the evidence tell me it is not. -

“Now, what should happen when

twilightstruggle you make a .
betweenleftand mistake ‘is
right. Whatever this,” the
needs to be presidentcon-

done—-this in-

Three presidencies have

tinued. “You

cludes a par- been damaged or de- take your A
don—it should . knocks, you
be done before Stfoyed by our deahngs leamy0urles—
Christmas. with Iran. Let’s end it. sons and than
Just one man 9 you move on.”
can meet the Let s, to use Ronald W h i 16
necessary pre- Reagan S 0Wn W‘0l'dS, Reagan has
condition for “n-love on.” muddied the ‘
Weinberger s water since,
freedom: the that crystal-
president. clear confis-
Why? Be- sion of 1987
cause the suspicion is rampant that if still sets the standard for what George ‘

Cap Weinberger, who opposed the Ira-
nian arms-for-hostages deal, had turned
over details of what tlien-President
Reaganandtlien-Vice President Bush’s
roles had been in the 1986 swap, he
would have never been indicted.

If this is true or not, the former
Pentagon chief has become a hostage
to the truth of what really happened in
the Iranarms-for-hostageaffair; George
Bush has become the ransom. Only he
can set the record straight on the six-
year-old scandal and thereby let the
Congress, the courts and the country
move on to concerns more central to
the.l990s. . , ..

 For sorr1eo"bvious...politi.cal. Iea-...

“s‘on's—-l'i‘e ran for President tw.ic_e”‘since

...Reagan.’s own words, f‘rnove on.”
‘  4©I'992'T7I‘f7lUl2 Media Services

Bush needs to do today:

1. Tell the country, without equivo-
cation, that he knew all about the arms-
for-hostages swap and agreed to it,
notwithstanding any objections wt
some Cabinet members might have
had;

2. Tell Cap Weinberger that he can
and should, tell the country everything
he knows about George Bush’s in-
volvement in the arms deal;

3. Wait a decent interval and par n
Weinberger before the Holy Season.

Three presidencies have been dam-

w

_z

aged or destroyed by our dealings with . ‘

Iran. Let’s end it. Let’s, to use Ronald

I

@112 ‘iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . .1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1 eb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate schoolyear at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. Advertising does not reﬂeet the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

GOP gears-up for wild rideiofthe future‘

WASHINGTON — Democrats dispensing jobs
are fending off phone calls from hundreds of people
who claim to have sat next to them in third grade.
Republicans are preparing to have their own fun.

“The delight of political life,” exclaims one par-
liamentarian in a Trollope novel, “is altogether in
opposition. The very inaccuracy which is permitted
to opposition is in itself a
charm worth more than all

surged, Bush yawned: “Time passes. Gravity occurs.
The tide goes out and low tide is on the way for Bill
Clinton.” On the way out today are the likes of Bond
and Charles Black, a Bush campaign official who

reportedly wants Bond’s job.
Black, a hired gun, calls to mind Churchill’s
description of Bolingbroke: “He could hit anynail on
the head, though
which particular

the patronage and all the pres-
tige of ministerial power.”
Not quite, but there is a de-
lightful Republican attempt

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group

nail never seemed
important to him.”
As a leader of the
Black, Manafort,

to build conﬁdence on a rick-
ety scaffolding of little num-
bers.

Clinton got 3 percent less of the popular vote than
Dukakis got; Clinton got just 39 percent of the white
vote and 41 percent of the male vote, both what
Dukakis got. But Clinton’s weak numbers were pro-
duced by Perot’s exercise in political auto-eroticism.
Clinton’s strong number is: He won 100 percent of
the White House.

After 1988, the Democratic chorus seemed to
have shrunk to a duet of blacks and white liberals.
Large parts of both groups are public employees, so
the party looked like government organized as an
interest group. After its 1992 defeat the GOP looks
like a discordant duet of the affluent (the only eco-
nomic cohort Bush carried was people earning more
than $75,000) and the religious right. Still, the fact
that there can be such sudden reversals of parties’
fortunes (remember 1964-68 and 1972-76) stimu-
lates Republican hopes.

For now, the focus of Republican strife is the
chairmanship of the Republican National Commit-
tee, a position currently filled, or at least occupied, by
Rich Bond, whose delicacy can be gauged by his
dismissal of Clinton Democrats: “We are America.
These other people are not.” In July, as Clinton

Stone & Kelly in-
ﬂuence-factory in
Washington, he
symbolizes the Beltway political culture that most
members of the RNC, who live out in America,
despise. They will elect the next chairman in Janu-
ary.

Bond is having a conniption because Pete du
Pont, former Delaware governor and 1988 presiden-
tial candidate, expressed an interest in the RNC job
before Bush lost. “Absolute political treachery 
disloyal, unseemly and cowardly,” fumes Bond who,
being a Bush Republican, may find du Pont unintel-
ligible because du Pont takes ideas seriously.

Du Pont believes that the marginal advantage
Republicans can gain from further refining cam-
paign techniques (polling, focus groups, etc.) are
negligible. “We must place the marketing of our
ideas ahead of the selling of our candidates.” Candi-
dates coming to party headquarters should not learn
about “blue shirts and red ties or red dresses and
makeup for television” but rather about school choice,
free trade, capital gains tax policy, etc.

Conservative ideas, says du Pont, are harder to
sell than liberal ideas. The costs, or risks, of conser-
vative ideas often are irrirnediate and obvious, whereas
the benefits may be delayed and indirect. For ex-

ample, a capital gains rate reduction may increase the
deficit and make some rich people richer, “but the
benefit of a stronger economy arrives on a different
train, an unknown track and with an uncertain sched-
ule.”

Conservative ideas face marketing difficulties.
“The media don’t help because their inclinations run
a different course. The education system dc esn’thelp
because its own operations are based on a different
model. Most ‘non-partisan’ institutions—labor
unions, universities, the American Association of
Retired Persons, the League of Women Voters-
don’thelp because their philosophy is the opposite of
ours.” I

Du Pont, whose credentials include Bond’s hos-
tility, would be an energizing party chairman. How-
ever, if other potential presidential candidates will
not allow that, the new chairman should at least be
someone unaligned with any candidate (which mig
rule out retiring Minnesota Rep. Vin Weber, who is

close to Jack Kemp). but who would use people like ,

du Pont to stress ideas. Hence the considerable sup-
port for Spence Abraham. .-
He is a founder of The Federalist Society, which
plants the seeds of conservatism in the stony groun
of law schools and courts. When he was chairman
the Michigan GOP he helped lay the groundwork for
the election of an activist conservative governor,
John Engler. The Republican resurgence in Michi-
gan continued this year—against the Bush undertow,
and in a state with many minority and union voters-
with Republicans making fresh gains in the state
legislature. 4
Currently Abraham is co-chairrnan of the Na-

tional Republican Congressional Committee, where t '

he did not renew any of the committee’s 57 contracts
with consultants and still made the first Republican _
gains in the House in four elections. Those are 57
reasons for choosing him.

©1992, Wa.s'hing_ton Post Writers Group_ 0

Spos chills cadets with his reality -

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

Spos wishes to discuss this business
about VMI. As Spos understands it, a
long-standing brotherly relationship be-
tween two schools sharing the same
city has been, if you will, shot to hell.

It seems that certain Veemies can’t
seem to behave at frat parties anymore.
I think that most of the student body of
W&L would stand behind Spos if he
were to address these cadets and say
(excuse Spos if he borrows a line from
Say Anything) “YOU MUST
CHILL!!!”

Understandably, one too many beers
or shots of whiskey tends to make one
prone to rowdy behavior, but this is
getting just a bit ridiculous.

As if to add insult to injury, some
cadets seem to be proud of this
adversarial relationship. Spos’ under-
ground spies at VMI tell him that a
couple of deranged cadets had T-shirts
printed up that list each ﬁght between

VMI cadets and W&Lstudents and the
number of W&L students that have
been sent to the hospital as a result.
Spos thinks that a few enterprising
W&L students should head down to

cadets into your frat parties and treat
them as honored guests. Cadets: prom-
ise that if you feel the need to hit
something, you will go to the Hill and
take out your frustrationson the Watson

Big Dog Graphics and get aT— Gallery. In such a manner, we
shirt printed up that lists the will either solve the hostil-
girlfriends of cadets that Veemies’ ity problem or we will
a.r:1:c:’g;3[tlng‘$(‘;LI1il-‘C ontlie heed Spos, word. gletrid otf tit? énost use.
si e rom guys. . ess ui mg on
Unfortunately,either . W&L’s cam us.
the type would have You might be able Spos could live
to be almost micro- to put a Mink in the quite comfortably
sco ic to fit on the - either wa .

shift, or the shirt hospltal’ but your Sposuiishesthat
would have to be as gil-[friend will be the above agree-
big as the AIDS quilt . . . . mentcould solve our
to fit all of the names. Vlsltmg hlm there littleproblem,butun-
Veemies, heed Spos’ h n X fortunately, the pre-
word: Youmightbeable t Ea e t ferred cadet method of
to put a Mink in the hospi- y’ stress release involves
tal, but your girlfriend will be bashing a Mink’s head into
visiting him there the next day. some immovable barrier (like the side-

Seriously though, Spos has the ulti-
mate solution to the W&L-VMI prob-
lem. It requires a bit of compromise on
both sides. W&L guys: promise to let

walk) until the Mink’s brains leak out
his ears and nose. Until someone comes
out with a dependable Veemie repel-
lent, Minks will have to learn to defend

themselves against angry cadets. Spos
suggests the following techniques:

ElArm Yourselves Very few thin
can match the sweetness of levelling an
angry cadet with a .357 Magnum (avail-
able at Kelly's Comer for a nominal
charge). Also does wonders for that
deep-seeded blood lust.

Cl Vehicular Homicide If you can
tolerate a few front—end paint chips 0
your Ford Explorer, this is an effective
way to deal with aggressive enemies.
(Spos’ Uncle Vito, who doesn’t ex-
actly play with a full deck, recom-
mends this method.)

Cl Distraction Method A cadet
can ’t resist the sight of a naked female‘.
Carry some cutouts from Playboy, Pent-
house and Hustler in your jacket in
case an angry cadet threatens you.

Seriously though, Spos hopes that
any VMI readers will take this along
with the spirit of humor. In case they

don’t, any death threats may be mailec '

to Spos care of The Ring-tum Phi. I
must warn you: any threats will imme-
diately be “processed” by Uncle Vito.

 

  

I he Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1992

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  

9 .
o the Editor:

To the Editor:
My colleague Lou Hodges’ charac-
’ terization of the Phi’ s new subscription
policy as “silly and misguided” (Phi,
Nov. 5) is unfair and simplistic. It rings
praty hollow whena man who preaches
condescendingly about “the proper
function of a student newspaper” ad-
mits he can’t be bothered to walk 100
yards and plunk down a quarter for it.
The editors of the Phi have finally
had the wisdom to make clear that, in
effect, the paper’s relationship with
, both the Executive Committee and the
administration is that of newspaper to
1 customer, not newspaper to publisher.
‘ What Prof . Hodges calls a “subsidy” is
indeed a bulk subscription. The Phi
A . publishes a newspaper; the students
pzﬁ for it with a portion of their activi-
‘ ties fee, distributed by the EC. A news-
A paper is never totally independent; the
question is which pressures help it ful-
«fill its mission, and which threaten to
force it to sacrifice that mission.
As recently as last spring, some

: l/MI wants peace too Phi Delt apo

é Until now, I have not commented on the changes
t Washington and Lee. Over the past 10 years, the
~ hool has evolved from one of the most unique
nstitutions in the country to a commonplace small
coeducational university. Into the “no comment”
category I place events such as the rigid attempts to
introduce political correctness into the curriculum
2 d student life, the notably absent camaraderie and
courtesy within the student body that existed prior to
coeducation, the retirement of old guard faculty
members and even the deterioration of The Ring-tum
Phi (this list is by no means exhaustive).
“ volution of W&L Women” in last week’s Phi,
, owever, compels me to remark on the new Wash-
gton and Lee. The article proves that some of the
eservations of those alumni, students and faculty
pposed to coeducation 10 years ago have come true.
e comments of Miss Fischer and Miss Donnelly
articul arly vindicate those who were against coedu-
tion. The opinions of these two individuals illus-
atgthat W&L has been transformed from an insti-
tion characterized by a relaxed (yet still top-notch)
~=cademic environment and a well-rounded, hospi-
' ble student body to one marked by divisive inten-
,.ity in the classroom and arrogance in segments of

° Phi subscription controversy rages on

the student body.

and countless others.

forum.

members of the EC thought that the Phi
was theirs to rim as they pleased. That
was rriade clear, when, in a fit of pique
over Ms. Lopiccolo’s superb reporting
of the Hudnall trial, they began hinting
darkly about yanking the Phi’s fund-
mg.

The story Ms. Lopiccolo wrote was
necessary to show how the jurors could
have returned the verdict they did.
Thank goodness she showed the moral
courage to see her duty as a responsible
journalist.

Thank goodness also for the debate
and criticism that ensued. A newspa-
per should hear from its readers, and
they should feel free to question and
criticize the stories reporters write and
the issues and events those stories re-
flect. The newspaper should listen to
those critiques.

But lively response from readers is
a far cry from ham-handed attempts at
control by intermediaries threatening
to draw tight the purse strings. A news-
paper should be responsible and re-

Coeducation made W&L commonplace

Miss Donnelly states that “it would be unrealistic
to go to a single-sex college” because “life isn’t like
that.” It may be news to Miss Donnelly, but single-
sex education has been, and continues to be a tremen-
dously successful method of education, not to men-
tion a highly desirable one for many. The fact that
“life” is not single sex did not seem to impair the
successes of graduates of the old W&L such as
Senator John Warner, Roger Mudd, Tom Wolfe,
members of the Alumni Board and Board of Trustees

My advice to Miss Donnelly is to avoid making
trite comments. A more efficient use of her time
would be the scheduling an appointment with Dean
Schroer-Lamont to discuss her egotistical concern
that professors “feel like girls are something to look
at.” No doubt that she will find sympathy in that

As for Miss Fischer, her “wish” that the students
from the area women’s colleges would “go some-
where else to party” is the paradigm of arrogance and
conceit. I am personally glad that this was not the
prevailing sentiment when I was an undergraduate,
otherwise I would not have met my wife, a Hollins
graduate. However, Miss Fischer should probably

OPINION

continue to avoid contact with the women’s college

institution.

students; if she ever had to compete with the highly
intelligent, well-rounded and focused women gradu-
ates of single—sex schools whom I have encountered
in the banking and legal professions, she would end
up wishing that she too had attended an all-female

While I opposed coeducation, I am the first to
admit that there have been some positive changes
since the Board’s 1983 decision. What I find distress-
ing are the self-important attitudes of individuals
such as Miss Donnelly and Miss Fischer, and the fact
that they represent and bring to life many of the
apprehensions articulated by the opponents of co-
education in 1983.

W&L is a very different school than it was when
I was a freshman nearly 10 years ago, and it will never
be the same. I wish the current students could expe-

rience the W&L that I knew. The single-sex history

past.

sponsive to its readers, not to self-
styled protectors of their interests. The
Phi’s relationship to the EC is not that
of a property to its publisher/owner,
who can pull the plug at will.

Ifthe Phi’s readers find it not worth
the 23 cents a week they pay to be
informed, amused, challenged and oc-
casionally provoked, then it is their
prerogative to look elsewhere for cam-
pus news. Setting up the EC’s contri-
bution as a bulk subscription is an
effective reminder to everyone of how
newspapers serve, and to whom they
should be responsive and responsible.

If the Phi’s relationship to the stu-
dent body is that of newspaper to sub-
scribers, then it’s obvious the faculty is
getting a freebie at students’ expense.
But for Prof. Hodges and others who
find their “professional obligation”
strained to bursting by having to heave
themselves over to the Co—op and, God
forbid, spend 25 cents, I offer a few
suggestions:

First, in the interest of faculty and

of the University and the important role played by the
women’s colleges warrant respect and appreciation.
With this in mind, perhaps people will think twice
before they make inane comments about W&L’s

Brandt Surgner ’87, ’94L

administration goodwill, the Phi could
unilaterally decide to continue having
students eat the cost of faculty sub-
scriptions. In the alternative, the Phi
could poll its paying readers to deter-
mine their preference.

Or, as was suggested in Mr. Lake’s
article of Nov. 5, let’s look at the obvi-
ous quid pro quo: In return for using
space in the student center, university
telephones, custodial services and se-
curity, let the Phi provide the paper to
faculty and administration.

The Phi isn't looking for a free ride,
or a way to be less responsive. It is
looking for a way to be more directly
responsive to its readers. Perpetuating
the myth that the paper exists thanks to
the benign largess of student govem-
mentor administration is wrong-headed
and dangerous. Dismantling that myth
is hardly what Prof. Hodges calls a
shell game.

Brian Richardson
Assistant Professor, Journalism

»To the Editor:

    
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
   
 
  

.are essential elements in promoting good relations between

W&L and VMI. To that end, I would like to correct a
«possible misunderstanding in the Phi’s reporting of con-
_ ﬂicts between students and cadets. Following the incident in

October, it was Col. Mike Bissell, the commandant at VMI,
-who initiated the meeting where we discussed ways to
lessen the tension between our two fine schools. Col. Bissell
‘ deserves full credit for that effort.

‘Sincerely,
David L. Howison
Dean of Students

,To the W&L community: I I ;
J :5 on behalf of the Brothers of Phi Delta -Theta, - '

‘ Open lines of communication and a" spirit of cooperation ,3 j V
‘ Virginia Zeta, I would like to apologize for the"

graffiti displayed in the Boiler Room at our Hell’s

Angels Party last spring. The graffiti was inap~ ,

propriate, distasteful, and demonstrated an ap-
palling lack of respect for women.

The purpose of this letter is two-fold. Prima-
rily, we wish to convey to the community our
realization of our mistake. At the time we weren’t
aware of the impact that the graffiti would have
on the W&L community because it was done in
a joking manner. Since then, we honestly have
grown in our understanding of sensitive issues
and we feel nothing less than disgust for our
actions. With earnest, we can say that such ac-
tions will never happen again in connection with

Iogizes for boiler room

: The subsequent goal-ofrthis letter is to advise;
other organizations to avoid siichuncivil behav-

ior in the future. We would likewio recommend“

education that encourages mutual respect for in-
dividual differences, desires, and ways of think-
ing. This description of proper behavior was an
essential part of Lee's expectations of W&L
students during his tenure as president. The tradi-
tion of gentlemanly conduct needs to be directed
to a more acute level, dealing with the increased
sensitivities present today. Greater awareness of
such issues is the goal at hand.

Sincerely,
Jim Eddings ’93
President, Phi Delta Theta

  
    
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
   

I To the Editor:
‘ This letter is in response to Jimmy
Kull’s letter in the Phi last week re-

‘ he was asked for identification at the
General Headquarters. The General
Headquarters is bound by ABC laws in
_ addition to the Honor System. It would
be ideal if the state of Virginia allowed
4‘
0

I

‘ ’gajling the violation of his honor when '

the Honor System to suffice for age
identification for the serving of alco-
holic beverages in the GHQ. Unfortu-
nately, the state does not make such an
exception. State law requires that serv-
ers of alcoholic beverages ID anyone
who looks under 30.

If the servers fail to do so they are
personally liable and jeopardize the

restaurant’s beer and wine license. The
students, the GHQ, the SAB and many
other organizations using the GHQ for
private parties would suffer if the GHQ
lost its beer and wine license. There-
fore, the employees of the GHQ will
continue to ID students who wish to
drink alcoholic beverages.
It’s the law.

      

Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

What is your most embarrassing moment while
intoxicated?

TALKBACK

 

‘GHQ bound by state law in addition to Honor System

Sincerely,

Melissa Philipps ’93

Monika Jaensson ’93L

Chris Crenshaw ’93

General Headquarters Managers

 

SkiCIub

Anyone, of any skill level, in-
terested in joining the ski club/team,
please come to an organizational
meeting Thursday, Dec. 3 at 7 pm.
in Newcomb 10. Officers will be
elected. Questions? Call John at
463-9495.

Pre- Law

A meeting for undergraduate
students interested in organizing a
Pre-Law Society on campus will be
held Wednesday, Dec. 2 at 7 p.m. in
the Commerce School room 221.
Members of Phi Alpha Delta legal
fraternity will provide leadership
for the society. All students con-
sidering law school after gradua-
tion are encouraged to attend. Ques-
tions? Contact Prof. John in Com-
merce School 125-B.

Holiday Service

A Thanksgiving Service open to
the public will be held on Thurs-
day,Nov.19at7p.m. inI..ee Chapel.
The service will be casual and in-
fomial and all are encouraged to
participate. Questions? Call Jer-
emy Meadows at 463-1197.

Summer Credits

The Fund for American Studies,
in Washington, D.C. has announced
that this year's summer institutes
will take place from June 9 to July
24, 1993. The Institute on Com-
parative Political and Economic
Systems, The Institute on Political
Journalism, and The Bryce Harlow
Institute on Business and Govem-
ment Affairs are held at Georgetown
University. Students earn a mini-

rnumofsixcneditsferparticipatibns. 3w)m_ Eyagtgtiﬁ mgfﬁnglish
mthe i>rosram- Numerous 9.¢h0la17zrr.i i:_1,>eiiari:iient.t 

ships are available based both on
merit and ﬁnancial need. Applica-
tions will be accepted until March
15, 1993. For more information
contact The Fund for American
Studies, 1526 18th Street, N.W,.,
Washington, D.C. 20036 or call
202-986-0384.

WLUR

WLUR-FM will be signing off
for Thanksgiving Break on Friday,
Nov. 20 at noon after the Mid-day
Report. WLUR will resume nor-
mal broadcasting Monday, Nov. 30.
Questions? Call Jeremy Meadows
at 463-8443.

Lost and Found

Several pairs of eyeglasses and
sun glasses have been turned into
room 104 of the University Cen-
ter. There is also a lens cap and
several pieces of jewelry. See
Carol Calkins to claim.

Help Wanted

Do you have some free time?
Would you like to earn some extra
money? I am looking for two
students who would like to be pro-
jectionists for the Troubadour Cin-
ema Winter and Spring terms. Ex-
perience not required but helpful.
Be prepared to set aside a few
hours for training. Contact Carol
Calkins, room 104 of the Univer-
sity Center, ext. 8590, for details.

Club Fencing

Club Fencing will be starting
again Winter term. Interested per-
sons (male or female) should call
either Coach Lyles at 463-8683 or '
Chris Keller at 463-4884 for de-
tails.

Scholarships

Members of Phi Eta Sigma may
contact Dean Sessions, Washing-
ton Hall 24, about scholarship op-
portunities. Awards of $2000 are
available to seniors going on to
graduate school and $1000 to eli-
gible undergraduates.

Scholars

Anyone interest/edin, joining 1
University Scholars‘ please con’-’ ‘

":‘i:=li"}'" tn:

I *1

Lost

A gray Patagonia pullover was
lost in the Pavilion last Sunday. If
found, please call 463-3676.

Get It Out

Letters and My Views to The
Ring-tum Phi should be submitted
to room 208 of the University Cen-
ter before noon on Tuesday. Car-
toons are also accepted.

General Notes are compiled by Matt I-laar

  
 
 
    

— “My first three years at W&L.”
f
0

I

. Amy Way, ’93, Houston, Texas —

Jeff Nuckols, ’93, Lexington, Va.
-—-— “I asked some random Sem chick
to FD my freshman year. Thank God

she said no.”

Lisee Goodykoontz, ’94, Richmond, Va. and Anne Salisbury, ’93, Balti-

more, Md.

—— “We pride ourselves on our ability to have fun without alcohol.”

Andy Woodring, ’93, Short Hills,

N.J. —— “I woke up in the Davis
showers the Sunday morning after FD.”

Betsy Treadway, ’95; Mount
Kisco,N.Y.-——“Iswallowedaquarter
while playing quarters and had John
Cherry give me the Heirnlich maneu-

V61’.

   

 

PAGE 4

By ToM HESPOS
Phi Staff Writer

unday, Nov. 8, 9:30 a.m.: The cold morning
breeze ripples Jameson I_eonardi’s camou-
ﬂage jacket. The weak morning sun doesn’t

yet have the strength to keep us warm. Jay
Strong looks conﬁdent, his smile gleaming brighter
than the sun reflecting off his weapon. Tom Hespos
scans the terrain, looking for any scrap of cover that
might serve him in the game that is about to begin.

Seems almost like a childhood game of “army
soldiers,” doesn’t it? Well, for all intents and pur-
poses, it is, with a modern technological twist.

The game is paintball and it has been described as
one of the country’s fastest growing sports.

Our particular paintball adventures occurred at
Bernie Clayton’s Outdoor Pursuits, a paintball facil-
ity located in Dillwyn, Va., about 35 miles south of
Charlottesville.

Outdoor Pursuits ’ brochure describes paintball as
“the second most fun you’ll ever have,” and that
description isn’t far from the truth.

Clayton leases a 340-acre site on which there are
several Paintball playing fields. Clayton can, and
does, run several different games at once on the
different playing ﬁelds.

Participants in the paintball experience are given
apaintball gun, which ﬁres small capsules filled with
colored paint at about 300 feet per second.

The guns are powered by pressurized carbon
dioxide, much like a pellet or BB gun.

The guns can hold over 100 capsules at a time,
which is usually enough for one game. The guns are

FEATURES

Bang! You’re dead, dude!

carefully calibrated so that no gun can fire faster than
the lntemational Paintball Players Association’s es-
tablished ﬁgure of 300 fps.

Additional paintball equipment consists of a full-
face mask and goggles to protect the face and eyes,
a bandanna to protect the neck, and heavy military-
style camouﬂage clothing. As Clayton will tell you,
safety is the first priority in paintball.

Clayton says in his mandatory safety speech that
paintball, as a sport, has
a lower injury rate than
golf. This statistic comes\ \
from Control Systems, \ I

Inc., which cites figures

   

he said. “There’s a certain intimidation factor in-
volved in using one of these.”
Hague tells us that players can spend over $500 on
a fully-automatic gun, aprice that is normally beyond
the reach of the average college student. Clayton
says, however, that the fully-automatic machine gtms
“don’t really work,” and that better guns can be
purchased for about $285.
One of the tournament officials was Stuart
Johnston, a University
I’ of Virginia student who
_ p / had experiencedpaintball
‘/ at other Virginia courses
/ before coming to Outdoor

   

compiled by the National ' . Pursuits.
Safety Council.  Johnston tellsus thatU.Va.
According to Clayton, over ispretty serious aboutpaintball,
5,000 people have played on his offering a six-week physical
course without a serious injury. education course on the sport.
The rules of the game are What would prompt a stu-
quite simple. Players must \ , dent to take paintball as a
capture a ﬂag placed on the

ﬁeld somewhere without / / .
getting shot. “Wounded” //

players must immedi-

ately leave the playing

field. Any “wound” larger than the size of anickel is
an ofﬁcial kill.

Many different games can be derived from this
simple “capture the ﬂag” concept. Our second and
third games were simple: capture the other team’s
flag and bring it back to your base without getting
shot. Later versions (our fourth and ﬁfth games)
were known as “search and destroy games” where
one team hides a ﬂag anywhere on the playing ﬁeld
at eye level and the
opposing team must
try to ﬁnd it.

The brochure lists
six types of Paintball
games for players to

try. 4
HarveyHague, of
Charlottesville, is a
member of Hazard-
ous Waste, a team
made up of players
from around Vir-
ginia, described as
“Virginia’s merce-
narypaintballtearn.”
Playing under the
name “F-Troop,”
members of Hazard-
ous Waste showed up
with three machine
guns, smoke gre-
nades and full carn-
ouflage gear.

 
   

 

. course?
\ \ “I had played paintball

\ before,” Johnston said,

“and I knew what I was
getting into.”

According to Clayton, “The course teaches safety,
proper use of equipment, strategy and tactics, hand
signals and code words, and stresses the importance
of teamwork and communication.”

Students taking the course receive one physical
education credit for their efforts.

The game is easy to get into. Beginning players
are pitted against players at their own ability level.

Clayton stresses the feeling of being a part of a
team that occurs when one plays paintball.

“Team players win and Rarnbos always lose,” he
says.

He recommends the sport to promote camaraderie
and open better lines of communication. He also
recommends thepaintball
experience to fraternities
and sororities or any other
group that would like to
experience its benefits.

Like many paintball
players, Clayton is trying
to promote the team ben-
eﬁts of paintball rather
than compare it to a war
or battlefield scenario.

“We try to stay away
from the war image as
much as possible,”
--—-—j Clayton says. “The cor-
porate groups are the ones picking up on the interest.”

Clayton tells of a division of the marketing depart-

Johnston tells
us that U.Va. is
pretty serious
about paintball,
offering a six-
week physical
e d u c a t i o n
course on the
sport.

ment of PepsiCo that came to Outdoor Pursuits as a ’

reward for reaching a corporate goal.

The Ring-tum Phl, November 19, 1992 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Asian garment
5 Provide food for
10 Footnote abbr.

5 6

  
 

14 Chester — ‘
Arthur .
15 Small egg '3
16 Title 
17 A Supreme g
18 Kingly . 2’
19 Feel f_
20 Show up 1‘
22 Small pieces 
24 Greek god
26 Where to get a -‘
hero 
27 Lab substance '=
31 Neglected H
35 Coal scuttle O l
36 Book of maps :
38 — Haute .
39 Burden l
41 Like a teetotaler ’
43 Seven —
44 Shakes violently
46 Erninent I ®1A9"9ZF’“';;::>;:r;‘e6sh2:3:,SeNices. Inc. 1  
jg 2;9;rg§g§>s5'V° Last Week’s Answers
51 Yellow turnip 3
53 Casks
55 Timber tree 11 Harden by .
56 Consign to an heating 
obscure place 12 False: abbr. ‘
60 Adhesive 13 Lairs
64 Satie or Estrada 21 Opera highlight
65 Wash lightly 23 Conspiracy
67 Spread for toast 25 Beauty shop
68 Succulentplant 27 Combination of
69 Singer —— John tones
70 As blind as — 28 Respect
71 Gainsay 29 Bring out
72 Fat 30 Toll
73 Alliance letters 32 Garbo of films
33 Ape
DOWN 34 Seed coating
1 Teasdale of 37 Put together
poetry 40 Roller rink item
2 Drooping 42 Uncommuni-
3 Speak hoarsely cative
4 Pants part 45 Self-satisfied
5 Fixes 47 Hamlet. eg.
6 — Maria 50 Captures ,*
7 Towboats 52 Lament
8 African antelope 54 Pole for walking
9 Kind of tall 58 Cat 62 Tidy
pitcher 56 Peruse 59 Within: pref. 63 ln —— (entirely) Q ‘
10 Motivates 57 Writer Gardner 61 Isle of exile 66 French coin '

Virginia.”

He is also scheduled to appear at a reading for

Sbar’s back! ‘

Former Phi humor colurrmist and '91 graduate,
Jon Sbar, is scheduled for a booksigning Dec. 2 at
2 p.m. in the W&L bookstore. His featured book
is also his first. The Undergraduate Almanac: A
Low-Life Guide to Higher Education takes place
at “Exclusive U nestled in the hills at Traditional,

 

     
    
    

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

    

 

pm“, by Jason Leonard. 7-he Hmg ,Um_Pm “We’re only go- “People must work together to achieve acommon 5¢1°CtedPa5538e5 0fhi5b°0k 3t4330P-m- inPaYne v
' ingtouseoneofthese objective ” Clayton says “to have as much fun as H3“: D99 2-
Tournament players take a break from the paintball actlvltes. machinegunswday » legally pgssible .. ’ «
tunt-.-4t-;*§iéi9Ii4§¥4t-;4n+.4zt¢;%;-r't-i—.t-o-1l3o-o-.-t\vantunv.-4tgrt4;-n¢.m-.-n-.w.-4 \’o'l\“o'l\'o"l \' '4t'o'4t'o'4\"o'4 S . 0 . 0 -S‘
V rﬁrriirﬁvﬁiiﬁriitiﬁrrﬁiiiirﬁirﬁiiﬁirﬁuvﬁvrﬁirﬁlvxivﬁrrﬁtﬁiatvﬁviurﬁviirﬁvivﬁuﬁr  Cannondale ‘ TREK ' Dlarnond Back - Glant I n ’ i o
git; gag: Jansport day packs and book bags c|ud|otfOn|cs 0
Eggs g ;. ' ° AUDIO - VIDEO - cm sn:-Rso ‘
 the  Lex1ngtonB1ke Shop om some .,
:33; $3; 130 s. Main SL Mon.- Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon , 463-7969 egg; 31:3: NTZ .
1;: -1   g“; V////////////////////////// //////////////////////////////////////////////////////// KEF CW0
, =, :4 ,« / / BOSTON DEFlNl'l’lVE ‘B
.3131. g :1 g y g KLIPSCH BAZOOKA *
   g . ‘ é ' SPEAKER TRADE UP PFl‘?|r‘GNRAM
w = v ’« ‘ - BUYER PROTECTTON
1:“ - - -  Z up Q gr‘ 2 
 Ct1V1t1eS  g :r::s.*r::.*s3:.*.r¢3.2z....
0 O 9‘ _e 0 0
13831 gag é Ladies’ Shoes, Clothmg g (339) 463-5667 F.
::1 3:  g   g Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
.4 ,= =, / / Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
. :~ 4:» / 23 N. Main st. (703) 463-5988 / 2750 Ogden ma . n....t.
'3‘; 1: =1 ¢ Lexington, VA 24450 /
Ettj    MA -
28:1  SPRING BREAK ‘93
r 1 ’. . ,
  Valle 7/7a2Wl&ce SELL TRIPS’ v
  Y EARN CASH
:3‘:  & GO FREE!!! ‘

5 "2 C ’. .‘ _

 far Ch 141 S tm 3 S  E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 CALL 1-800-648-4849.
   E3": . . . . .

 . git; you are corrfzaffy minted to an mformaf '
'2 3 38;: . . . .

 V V ken d. . .  gatfrertng of Heidi and Her cfosestfnemisl

 

3,5,  THE HEIDI CHRONICLES

31:32 33;: 1, '
‘$33 ‘ Eitj y . .
13333 1 n E Q 0 r S :23; Wend)’ Wasserstem .
E3: 0 :3; J
593 V ' 51:2‘

 and 

Egg: . git: J
51:32 4 . .:  ,
 “Honeymoon in 

21:2 

   

 V ,,  I .

 g  K57/T.‘ December 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 8: 9 at 8 PM

 I  December 6 at 2 PM

 UXIIXIKXCIXIKxllxllxlIXIIXIVOW|'O'l|'O'l|'O'l|'O'l|"O'l|'O'lI’0'1|'O'l1'0"I|'9"l|'O'lBxlV0‘!|"O'l|"O"l|'O'l|'O'l|'O'l|'g:g  8  9  i . ,
r.'o'.\rxtrxvxtrxtrxtrxtrxvxuxtIX‘rxuxivxirxvxtvxtrxtrxuxvxvxvxvxtvxxrxuxuxuxt     ‘

 Caming H   Hardware, Paint and Related Items

= - Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.

Sun. 1-5 p.m.

Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus
representatives. Ski
packages also available

 

    

 

._-.".;. 2-33.. ..  -gym. ‘

     
 
    
 

   
  
  
  
  
  
       
 

  i
i

,1 SPIRAL SLICED
t

  

‘I he Ring-tum Phl, November 19, 1992

  
  

SAVE $1.00 PER LB.

30-40 COUNT

- LARGE

 

l
 HAMILTON HONEY GLAZED

WHOLE

WHOLE OR
HALF



TDELI-BAKERY

  BOLOGNA

SLICED TO
ORDER

' LB.

 
  

   
  
        
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
   
    
     
  
   
  
   
      
 
 

Job Opportunities
In The Retail Grocery Field

° FOR STUDENTS

Why Work For
Harris Teeter?

1) Flexible work hours designed
to assist students with school
activities.
2) On-the-job-training
3) Good starting pay
4) Pay raises based on individual
experience.
5) Paid vacation after 1 year of
service
6) year round employment
7) career opportunities after
graduation

Join The Best Team In

Town!
_ Our Openin s Are Immediate
And Will e Filled As We
Interview, So Don't Delay.

Come By Any Harris Teeter

. Location.

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON
' $1 00 OFF‘
~| 0 I

'1 ANY $3.00 on MORE I
*I PURCHASE IN cure I
L I PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I

I I THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I
I LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I
OFFER GOOD NOV. 18, THRU NOV. 24, I992

COUPON PRODUCE I
I i.‘i>’¢i I

PLU 2289GJ

L_.________....

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 LITER 8 9

REDUCED
PRICE

  
 
  
 
 

PAGE 5

HUNTER ALL NATURAL
ICE CREAM OR

REGULAR OR LIGHT

G
ICIAYONNAISE  32 02099

SELECTED VARIETIES
PRINGLES

CHIPS ................ .. 6- 702.099
CORD 

SONY
BATTERIES .................. ..2 CT.

FLORIDA'$ NATURAL
ORAN

GE
JUICE 9 9
REGULAR OR
HOMESTYLE

  
 
 

SPECIAL
64 OZ. PRICE
WE SPECIAL
RIDGIES 
REGULAR OR
SOUR CREAM
& ONION

6OZ..

g  
L ' Prices Effective Through November 24, I992

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday November I8 Throu
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sod To Dea ers. We Gladiy Accept federal food Stamps.

hluescia , Nov. 24, 1992. In Lexington Stores Only

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The ing—u Phi I

The Generals seniors: Standlng- Sean Gatewood, Evans Edwards, Bob Ehret, Thomas May, Kevin
Gorman. Kneeling- Andy Woodring, Josh Levlnson, Phil Spears, Wade Roblnett, Stuart North, Lyle

Smith.

Generals stumble,

C! From FINALE, page 6

William Propst for 21 yards.

A few plays later, Mason went in for
six from one yard out. At the half,
W&L only trailed by seven.

The third quarter flew by without
any points. Then the teams got busy.

The Hoyas struck first, as the
Demarest-to-Murphy combination
clicked from five yards out, 21-7.

The Generals responded a few min-
utes later when Mason scored his sec-
ond of the game on another one-yard
plunge.

Then Georgetown made a crucial
play. They blocked Drew Thomas’
extra point attempt, his ﬁrst extra point
miss of the season. W&L now trailed
by eight.

The Hoyas went right back to work,

From Staff Reports

Both Washington and Lee cross
country teams finished their seasons
on Saturday at the Division III regional
championships.

The women’s team capped an in-
credible season with a third place ﬁn-
ish behind the winner Emory, and 12
points behind archrival Mary Wash-
ington College. The third-place finish
was the highest ever for the women’s
team.

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer re-
turned to her usual spot atop the finish-

though. Murphy caught his third TD
pass of the afternoon, a 12-yard offer-
ing from Demarest. The Hoyas missed
their extra point, and W&L was still
alive, trailing by 14.

But it was not to be.

The Generals scored their ﬁnal
touchdown of the season with no time
left on the clock and missed the two-
point conversion, which made the ﬁnal
seore, Georgetown 27, Washington and
Lee 19.

The dramatic turnaround from last
year’s 1-9 season did not go unnoticed,
and a number of Generals were hon-
ored by the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference. '

The main General, Gary Fallon, was
named ODAC Coach of the Year for
the third time in his career. He also
earned the title in 1981 and in 1988.

Sports Notebook

ers’ list.

Schaeffer tamed the Sewanee
course in 18:35, 37 seconds better than
her nearest competitor. It was a strong
rebound after the strange happenings
during the ODAC championships.

With the win Schaeffer became the
first W&Lfemale runnerto everqualify
for the NCAA Division III national
championships.

Both Schaeffer and fellow fresh-
man Amy Mears, who finished 10th
overall, earned all-region honors.

The men also finished strong, com-
ing in seventh out of 21 teams.

27-19

Four players were named to the
ﬁrst-team all-ODAC: wide receiver
William Propst, right guard John Sur-
face, punter Bob Ehret and place kicker
Drew Thomas.

Propst also ended the season as the
ODAC’s receptions leader with 48.
He's the first General to win it twice.

Three others were named to the
second team: defensive end Phil Spears,
linebacker Lyle Smith and free safety
Marc Newman.

The Generals will now have high
expectations for next year. They still
have a very young team, and barring

any major changes, they should do
even better in 1993.

Fallon summed up what this entire
season has been like for the team in
three little words.

“It was fun!”

VAFINER & POLE

For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

 

Furniture Dealers

463-2742

BUY ONE PIZZA

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

 

delivered hot and last to your door.

© 1989 Pizza Hut, lnc.

   

01989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

all Us
and Keep
Crammin g.

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings,

Pizza Hut Delivery . . . Great taste delivered!

2 pizzas for the price of 1

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS OR DISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY
WITH COLLEGE ID

: Call: 463-7000

: Offer expires 12-18-92

our drivers any no more than $20.

I-Ilut.

llrnibddoivcryam.

r---------------------1

Student Special

ta:
-Hut.

1/20 cant cash rederrptlon value.

\,

Senior Bo Hannah extended his fr-
nal season by qualifying for the na-
tional meet with a third place finish.

Hannah led for part- of the race, but
had to settle for third with a time of
25 :5 1.

Both Schaeffer and I-larmah will
take part in the national meet on Satur-
day, Nov . 21 . Schaeffer has approached
national times during some of her races
this year, so she might enter as a favor-
rte.

The women’s team ﬁnished the sea-
son with an astounding 22-4; they
posted a solid 19-14 mark.

Student Housing Available
for ‘93-‘94. 1 to 5 Bedroom
Houses right outside city limits.
Average Rent $200.

Ask for Mitchell or Mark Scharer
M-F 463-2823 7:30-5:00

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND
RESUME EXPERIENCEM
Individualsand Student Organizations
wanted to [remote SPRING BREAK,
call the nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-8(X)-327-6013

SPRINGBREAKERS.
Promote our Honda Spring
Break packages. Earn MONEY
and FREE trips. Organize
SMALL or LARGE groups

' - 2

the Phi
HELP
WANTED:

GET INVOLVED!

The Ring-tum Phi is
seeking outgoing stu-
dents for advertising
sales. It's good for the

resume, especially for C-
School majors! Leave a
message for Benjy at 463-
8581, or leave a note with
Mrs. Calkins in the U.Ctr.

The Ring-tum Phi is also
seeking a reader-rela-
tions coordinator. Great
experience in public
relations. Call Cathy or
Rick at 463-8581, or leave
us a note with Carol
Calkins in the U. Center.

 

rLast We - '  
ek. ~ ~ ~ This Week:
Footban- G’town 27,w&L 19 (5-4) @113 53319 mm 1311 I BKB- 11/20&21 at Trinity Invit.;24 at
CC- (W) 3rd—(M) 7th at Regionals Sewanee;28 at B’water;30 at Va. Wes.
Swim-(M) W&L 108-Centre 71 (1-0) MSwim- at MWC 11/21 ’
L (W) W&L 94-Centre 72 (1-0) WSwim- at Hollins Invit. 11/20&21 *
A

PAGE 6 FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY NOVEMBER 19, 1%;

Hoyas pick apart Generals in final game

WL seniors aresent  nown note W&L finshes with best record since ’88 ’ 

.,_

v

By SEAN O’RoURr<E
Phi Sports Editor

1

 

Q

“The thrill of victory, and the agony of defeat.” _ ,

For more than a quarter century, Jim McKay's timeless opening for Al$’s
Wide World of Sports has signified the glory of sports. *9

The Washington and Lee football team experienced more of the thrills of
success than the agonies of failure this season. After surviving the 1991 season .
the Generals displayed character and poise in 1992, and that helped them to a 5
4 record, their first winning season since 1988.

“Going into the season we knew we were going to be a better football team,’
said head coach Gary Fallon. “We just didn’t know if we were good enough to
win, but we wanted to be competitive.”

The Generals were competitive in almost every game this year and thei
season finale was no exception. -

The Georgetown Hoyas came to Wilson Field sporting a 3-6 mark, a far cry
from the 6-3 mark they had last year when the Generals visited them. Well, like
last year, the underdog came away victorious.

Georgetown used a couple of big passing plays to beat W&L 27-19. Faﬁlon
says those plays were the key to the game.

“They big-played us,” Fallon said. “That's what wins games for you. We did
that a couple times this season, but this time they did it to us.”

The Hoyas scored on their fourth possession of the first quarter.

Quarterback Aley Demarest and wide receiver Chris Murphy hooked-up fo
a 24-yard touchdown highlighted by a sensational diving catch by Murphy. Th
Hoyas jumped to a 7-0 lead. -.

g The Hoyas scored again early in the second. Facing a third and 15 at their owrt
42, Demarest found Dorian Bell racing down the right sideline. A perfectly‘

thrown pass resulted in another six for the Hoyas. The extra point made it 14-0

Georgetown. _.

“They came up with clutch plays," Fallon said. “Number seven[Murphy]
made a phenomenal catch, and the other one was just a well-thrown football.
Can’t place much fault with the defenders.” .

W&L responded late in the half with a 13-play drive for a touchdown.

With 6:40 remaining, the Generals started at their own 35. On the first play;
Tommy Mason picked up 20 yards on a sweep. Geren Steiner hit James Urban
for 16 on the third play. After a penalty moved the Generals back, Steiner found‘

Photo by Jameso Lnardi, The R/ng-tum Phi
William Propst leaves a potential tackler hangin' after making one Of his five catches against the Hoyas on Saturday. The five catches
gave Propst 48 receptions on the year, enough for the ODAC receptions title. It’s the second straight year he has claimed the prize, the

first General ever to do so.

Hoops excited about season

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Complacency hasn’t been a problem
with the Generals as they prepare for the
1992-93 basketball season.

“Practices have been very competitive,
even feisty,” said head coach Verne
Canfield. “This can translate into intensity
and competitiveness in games.”

Eight players, including three starters,
return from last year’s squad, which fin-
ished a disappointing 7-18 and failed to
qualify for the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament.

Canfreld expects to rotate ten players
who will see quality minutes, but has not
yet decided who will start.

The Generals are loaded with talented
guards. Senior captain Bryan Brading and
top-scorer Bryan Watkins highlight the
four returning guards and two new fresh-
men in the back court.

Brading started 23 games atpoint guard
last season, scoring nearly seven points
per game.

Brading led the Generals in three-point
shooting (42 percent) and free throw shoot-
ing (80 percent), so Canfreld looks for him
to step up his scoring.

“Bryan is not looking to score as much
as I want him to,” said Canfield. “He’s
playing superb defense, but he needs to

 

shoot more. We‘re looking for a few more
points out of him this year.”

Watkins has never been shy about shoot-
ing. As a junior, Watkins lead the team in
scoring (14.4 ppg),
three—pointers (a
new school record-
63), assists (89) and
steals (35).

As the Generals’
offensive creator
and weapon last
year, Watkins took
120 shots more than
any other player,
making only 37.5 percent of them. As the
offense matures, however, defenses won ’t be
able to focus on Watkins and his shooting
should improve.

“He’s one of the better players in the
ODAC,” Canfield said. “Bryan has excellent
talent and is tough to stop when he has his
game together. We will be looking to him for
a scoring punch.”

John Rogers, last year’s top scoring fresh-
man (7.0 ppg), should provide an offensive
spark for the Generals. But now he must raise
the other aspects of his game.

“John is an excellent three-point shooter,
but he needs to work on ball movement and
driving [to the basket],” said Canfield. “He
has the tools to be a very fine defensive
player. When he’s on, he plays lots.”

Brading

The question mark for the Generals
offense will be inside the paint. The Gen-
erals shot nearly 200 fewer free throws
than their opponents last season as W&L
relied on its streaky outside shooting. The
Generals won’t abandon the perimeter
game, but Canfield has stressed looking to
the low post first this season.

“You win or lose in the paint,” he said.
“When you go inside, good things happen.
We've worked on reversing the ball and
going inside.”

When the Generals look inside, they’re
sure to find junior Robert Miggins. The 6-
5 forward is the top returning post player
(7.1 ppg, 6.1 rpg).

“People are going to see this year that
Robert is a very good player at both ends of
the floor,” said Canfield.

The Thanksgiving tournament in San
Antonio highlights the Generals’ sched-
ule.

They open up at home on Dec. 3 hosting
defending ODAC champion Harnpden-
Sydney.

Canﬁeld enjoys the challenges posed
by this team and its potential for success.

“We’re in the rightplace[at this point],”
he says.

“It remains to be seen how they handle
the close game. It's there if the kids will let
it happen. We have to re—acquaint our-
selves with winning.”

1 D

      
    
  
 

—_._

 Fashions For “The Student Body. ”\
50°/o-80°/o Off
Every Day

OUTLETS

30 South Main Street Downtown Lexington
K Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 463-9730 J

0 You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Visa® and MasterCard@
credit cards.."in your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VlSA@ and MmtcrCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need for-— lD—BOOKS——DEPARTMENT
ST 0RES—TUlTlON—ENTERTA1 NM ENT-
EMERGENCY CASH-—TlCKE'IS-RESTAURANTS-
HOTELS—MOTELS—C-AS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAlRS—AND TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING!

  

 

Having the goblins and goulies over?
Let us custom design Halloween Invitations!
ALSO Résumés, cover letters and quick Copies.

33 PHONE: 463 - 1712 -

FAX #: 463 - 6918
125 w. NELSON sr. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM ma POST omcu

No credit
No security deposit!

Approval absolutely guaranteed so
MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

with all yo
Style Scrambled Eggs,

We are open Everyday 24 hours
and Dinner 24 hours a day. Every thing is Homemade. Since you can’t be home, let us do your

f day. We offer prompt and Fast Service.

 

r
1221111-I-"X111

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLANTAiION.FL 3331

Swimteams make '.

0 See FINALE, page 5

Q

waves at first dual meet E

By SEAN O’RoURKE
Phi Sports Editor

Doug Brown has left the building.‘

Men’s swimming coach Page Remillard will
probably cringe at the thought. But nonetheless,
it’s a fact the men’s swimming team must now
deal with.

Brown graduated from W&L in June as one of
its best swimmers ever. He left a major hole to fill,
not only in terms of in-the-pool results, but also in
out-of-the-pool leadership.

Remillard knows what he lost, but thinks he
has a team that can overcome that.

“The leadership this year will come from the
seniors,” Remillard said. “We have a young team,
but they’re a mature group, though. I think we’ll
benefit from their maturity.”

When Remillard says young, he’s not kidding.

Fifteen of the 19 swimmers are either freshmen
or sophomores. However, many of the sopho-
mores were used extensively last year, especially
John Rowe, an all-American in the 400-yard indi-
vidual medley.

The team ﬂexed its youthful muscle on Satur-
day as the Generals demolished Centre 108-71.

W&L won every race, with freshman Craig
Sears leading the way with two wins in the 200-
yard IM and backstroke.

Remillard sees the key to this year’s team is its

111111“ F

ability to win and have fun at the same time; ,
“We’re going to work our tails off, but I want
the kids to have doing it because its tough to be!
unhappy and win,” Remillard said. ,

While Remillard worries about the youth of
his team, women’s head coach Kiki Jacobs must‘
worry if she’ll have enough swimmers to field a’
team. 0
Just like last year, Jacobs has the difficult task-
of entering every meet at an extreme disadvan-
tage in terms of personnel. Jacobs only has 11'
girls on this year’s team. r

Unlike the men’s team, however, Jacobs has
her best swimmer returning for her final season.‘
Senior—Claire Dudley enters her final year ‘ith,
four individual records and two team records to
her credit. She will anchor the relay races and the’~
breaststroke events.

Jacobs also has a star freshman to base some
hopes on. Rebekah Prince arrives with some
pretty impressive high school credentials.

Also returning for Jacobs are sophonﬁire‘
standouts Brani Henderson and Susan Fis er
Both were ODAC champions in events last year.

The 1992-93 season got off to a good start, as
the Generals disposed of Centre, 94-71. In the,
meet, Prince set a school record in the 200-yard
backstroke, finishing the race in 2: 16.61.

Prince won two other races, while Dugley_
added three wins. Fisher and freshman Chrissie
Hart also contributed to the Generals’ win. t’

0OOCampus Reps WantedG0O

I .
8 HEATWAVE VACATIONS ’

 

NAME

CITY
PHONE

AAAAQAAALAAQAQAAQAAAAAAAAAAQAAAAAAAAAAAAALAALAAAAAAAAAAAQAAAAAAAAAALAAAAQQAAQA .
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

E-HI Truck Stop: Friday & Saturday Night Breakfast Buffet from

11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

ur Breakfast food. Homemade Sausage Gravy & Biscuits, Fresh Scrambled Eggs, Western " J
Home Fries, Hashbrowns & Grits, Bacon, Sausage, a Medley of Fresh Fruits,

T New at Berky’s Restaurant at LE

l\Te VVS 1-7121511

If that’s not enough, we also offer this Buffet again on Sunday Morning from o 3'

Homecooking for you, no matter what time o

 I want VISAGI MASTERCARD9 Credit

Cards. Enclosed find 85 which is 100% refundable if not
approved immediately.

 

 

SIGNATURE

NOTE Mastercnrd is I registered trademark d Mnterthrd lntematiornl. Inc
visa is a registered traderrnrk ofVlSA USA. Inc and VISA lnbnntional
Servioa Assucldion.

I’
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I ADDRESS
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
'.

STATE _. ZIP
S.S.”

100°/0 GUARANTEED!

French Toast, and Much More!

8 a.m. to 2 p.m.

a day with a New & Improved Menu. Breakfast 24 hours a day. Lunch

AAAAAAQALAAAAAAQAQQAQALQAQAAAAAAAAAAAAAQAQAQQ
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

 

L111 6 tin

SPRING BREAK 1993 y-
The best rates & the biggest Q
commissions. For more Information, "
Call 800-395-WAVE

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
: YOU i
: qould own

. , l
I This space,
, .
I
.'

I

CaII463-8581.’ ,

f
0
?
J

 

 

