 

THE UNlVERSiTY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON 8. LEE Ln~:ivERs‘iT\{,
IEXINGTON, VA. 24450: r"

001 3 01992

 

GHOULIES AND GHOSTIES

Get Into The Spirit Of Halloween
With Lexington’s Ghost Stories

All Eyes On The Election 

Don't Miss
The Ring-tum Phi’s
Special Coverage

@

Clhiz iliing-tum lﬁlti

VOLUME 92, NO. 8

Miller
dismissal
. upheld

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON,

If the election were held today, who would you vote for?

October 13 October 21

   
   

Undecided
Clinton

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

‘ ‘The Student Conduct Committee
Tuesday upheld the expulsion of
. Marcus Miller after an appeal board
instructed the SCC,to rehear the case.
“After careful consideration, the
SCC unanimously decided to uphold
the original decision,’,’iSCC President
. lﬁggie Aggarwal said after the hear-
mg. ' r
' Miller hung up ona reporter who
called to ask about the decision.
, On Oct. 7, the SCC voted to per-
; ‘manently dismiss Miller from W&L
after ﬁnding him guilty of harass-
nt, trespassing and ungentlemanly
conduct.
Dean of Students David Howison
4 said Miller submitted a written appeal
to a board consisting of Executive
Committee President Josh
MacFarland, Associate Dean of Stu-
dQnts Dennis Manning, and Cinda

I

- ' Rankin, the senior faculty member of

the Student Affairs Committee.
Normally, Howison would serve
I on the board, but he said he removed
himself because he was involved with

Lthecase at an early stage.

Q Howison said the board asked the

Bush

   

Statistics are based on two random surveys of 50 W&L students conducted on Oct. 13-14 and Oct.
21. Margin of error is :7 percent.

W&L backs Bush, barely

As election looms, 30 percent of students are undecided

But only 22 percent of those who watched said the
debates have affected their vote.

“The debates just convinced me that typical politicians
are still lying,” said third-year law student Joseph Dow
Covey.

Once the polls close on Nov. 3, some students are
planning to take some time out from homework to watch the
election results on television.

Members of College Democrats will meet at a member’s
apartment to watch the returns,
President Cottie Miles said.

By AMY YARCICH
Phi Staff Writer

As election day looms closer, many W&L students are
still undecided in the presidential election.

According to a random survey of 50 W&L students taken
13 days before the election, 30 percent said they did not
know which candidate they will vote for on Nov. 3. The
survey’s margin of error is plus
or minus 7 percent.

VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 29, 1992

Phi Delt sentence
to be rethought

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi‘ Staff Writer

Phi Delta 'I'heta’s house corpora-
tion will consider reopening that
house's kitchen after parents of Phi
Delt members protested the harshness
of the punishment at a meeting Friday.

Dean of Students David Howison
said about 50 Phi Delt parents and
students gathered Friday for a ques-
tion-and-answer session about the
house corporation’s decision to revoke
house dining privileges and suspend
all other house func-

$500 chair was broken and bathroom
stall partitions were pulled down.
Howison said the main concern of
parents was that the punishment was
too harsh for the damage done to the
house on Homecoming weekend.
Howison said he, Associate Dean
of Students Leroy “Buddy" Atkins,
and Phi Delt faculty advisor Joseph
Goldsten told parents that the punish-
ment was for a string of damages to the
house, not just one weekend's worth.
“[The house corporation’s] action
is based on a pattern of damage that
actually goes back to last year,”
Howison said.

tions. Last year, both the

At the end of the Interfratemity Council
meeting, Howison said, and the house corpora-
the parents told tion put Phi Delt on
Howison to ask the social probation,
housecorporationtore- Howison said. Recent

consider the punish-
ment.

Phi Delt House Cor-
porationPresidentJohn
McIntyre maintained
that revoking food
priveleges was not too
harsh a punishment, but
said the corporation
would reevaluate the
punishment because of the parents’
concerns.

“The house corporation currently

 

Howison

SCC to rehear the case because of
“irregularities in due process” proce-
dures.

This is Miller's second SCC con-
viction.

In November 1991; the SCC sus-
pgnded Miller for trespassing, two
months after he pled guilty in Lexing-
ton General District Court to trespass-
ing in a W&L student’s home during
the previous summer.

The citytrespassing charge resulted
from aplea bargain, reducing the origi-
n 1 charge of breaking and entering
with intent to commit a sexual-assault

felony, according to court records. said.

Republican George Bush re-
ceived 38 percent of the stu-
dents’ votes, while 30 percent
supported Democrat Bill
Clinton. Only one respondent,
or 2 percent of the respondents,
said his vote was going to inde-
pendent candidate Ross Perot.

W&L students seem united
in their concern about the up-
coming election, as shown by
the 90 percent of students who
said they watched at least some of the presidential debates.

“The outcome of the election will have a pretty signiﬁ-
cant effect on every American,” freshman Andrew Bidwell

 

election night.

Reporters will call in the re-
sults from Lexington and Buena Vista as the votes are

tabulated.

“It will be tons of work but this is our big night,” senior

journalism student Talley Woolley said.

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Public Affairs Director Grace Sarber and President John Ripley show off the new name and logo for Southern Virginia College
for Women, formerly Southern Seminary College.

Southern Semi_narychanges its name
to eliminate religious connotations

' By LEIGH ALLEN and GREGORY PATIEISON
Phi News Editors

The vocabulary of W&L students was changed
forever Tuesday when Southern Seminary Col-
lege became Southern Virginia College for
Women.

Southern Virginia President John Ripley said
the new name clears up confusion about the
school’s mission.

“It says who we are, what we are and where
we are, but especially what we are not," Ripley
said in a press conference Tuesday. “They see
‘gseminary’ and think we’re a convent.”

First-year Southern Virginia student Carolyn
Sanders said people from her home state of
Michigan were confused by the old name.

“They ask me if I’m going to be a nun,”
Sanders said while her horse grazed on the front
lawn of the college Tuesday morning. “I just quit

gelling people where I was going to school.”

Ripley said the new name is one in a series of
recent changes for the 125-year-old Buena Vista

college, aimed at increasing the school’s enroll-
ment and academic reputation.

Ripley said the name “Southem Seminary”
was a detriment in attracting new students.

“Hopefully this name will prevent prospec-
tive students from walking past our admissions
table at recruiting fairs,” said Ripley, who was
recently appointed president of the college. “The
new name manifests all the changes we made
over the summer in the leadership, the adminis-
tration and courses.”

The college’s colors will also change from
purple and gold to brick red and hunter green.

Ripley said the new name was selected by the‘

Board of Trustees earlier this month. Students
were told of the change at a special assembly
Tuesday morning, one hour before it was an-
nounced publicly. ’

Although Ripley said most students like the
new name, some say they preferred the old one.

“I don’t think they should have changed it,”
said Wendy Cullen, a senior from Buena Vista.
“I’ve lived here all my life and I don’t want it to
change. It’s a tradition.”

Ripley said an independent researcher gave
six names plus Southern Seminary to a group of
college students in North Carolina and asked
them to rate the names from best to worst. He said
a name similar to “Southem Virginia College for
Women” was at the top of the list and “Southem
Seminary College” was ranked last.

Ripley said the class of ’93 will receive diplo-
mas from Sem. The class of ’94 will be the first to
graduate from Southern Virginia.

The college was established in 1867 as The
Home School for Girls in Bowling Green, Va.,
and became Southern Seminary when it moved to
Buena Vista in 1901. Since then it has been
named Southern Seminary and Junior College,
Southern Seminary Junior College and, most
recently, Southern Seminary College.

Sem alumna Beth Thompson, ’82, said she
supports the name change if it helps recruit stu-
dents.

“Enrollment is down,” Thompson said. “I’d
rather be an alum of a college by a different name
that’s still standing than one that’s just a vacant
building.”

, Christine Will, secretary of
the College Republicans, said
her group will be at the polls in
Lexington until they close, and
then will watch the results.

' Instead of just watching elec-
tion results, students at W&L’s
Cable Charmel 9 will present
their traditional election broad-
cast starting at about 7:30 on

thinks it is extremely easy for kids to
eat in the dining hall or on campus, ”
McIntyre said.

“This is really between the [Phi
Delt] house and the house corporation,
” McIntyre said. “I think the fraternity
members know why [the punishment
is fitting].”

A representative of the house cor-
poration, the group of 10 Phi Delt
alumni in charge of managing the house,
was unable to attend the meeting,
Howison said.

Two weeks ago, the house corpora-
tion suspended Phi Delt social func-
tions and closed the kitchen after a

Students to

rush violations, peri-
odic damages to the fra-
ternity and the Home-
coming mishaps
prompted the house
corporation’s punish-
ment, Howison said.

Some parents said
closing the Phi Delt
kitchen was a cruel and

unusual punishment.

“We were significantly concerned
and upset that suddenly the kids
couldn’t eat,” Phi Delt father Thomas
Sumner said. “We are not as concerned
with the social activity probation.”

Sumner said that though each
member‘ s food money will be refunded,

' that still leaves Phi Delts with the ques-
tion of where to eat.

Sumner said the meeting was edu-
cational, but the absence of a house
corporation representative left parents
with unanswered questions.

“The meeting was somewhat one-
sided because we had to continually
refer to the deans,” Sumner said. “This

C] see PHI DELT, page 6

payfor

pavilion until 2003

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

How much would you pay
for the Student Activities Pavil-
ion?

$19.95?

$29.95?

How about $677,000?

“A lot went into [the pavil-
ion] and it's not obvious to the
casual observer," Capital Plan-
ning Assistant Frank Parsons
said.

AssistantTreasurer and Con-
troller John Cuny said $277,000 The student
of the cost was paid by the uni- .
versity and the other $400,000 is being paid
for by the student body. I

In 1984, the Executive Committee agreed
to give W&L about $25 out of each student’s
activities fee until the building is paid for.
Cuny said $311,000 was still owed on the
pavilion after the 1991-92 school year.

EC Vice President Ames Hutton said the
student body will pay $49,150 on the pavil-
ion this .year.

Cuny said that at the current rate the
pavilion will be paid off in 2003.

Parsons said extra features made the pa-
vilion so expensive.

Parsons said the plumbing and electrical
ﬁxtures, a special ﬂoor, high cinder block

 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The R/ng-tum Phi
Activities Pavilion cost $677,000.

walls, circulation fans, wall drains and large
roll-up doors made up 40 to 45 percent of the
building’s cost.

Parsons said the features were needed to
make the pavilion useful to both the Student
Activities Board and athletics department.

Parsons said the university thought that
when the pavilion was built the student body
would use it more than it does. He said the
change in the drinking age from 18- to 21-7
years—old hurt attendance at pavilion events.

“As soon as we had two classes of stu-

dents, those who could drink and those who
could not drink, attendance dropped,” Par-
sons said. “But for the first couple of years,
it was a hugely successful building.”

From the W&L News Office

Former Nixon administration official and con-
victed Watergate conspirator G. Gordon Liddy
will speak in Lee Chapel tonight at 8 p.m.

In the Nixon administration, Liddy served first
as special assistant to the Secretary of the Trea-
sury and in 1971 was sent to the White House as
a staff assistant to the President.

Liddy resigned his White House post to accept
the position of general counsel to the l972Repub—
lican Committee to Re-elect the President.

Liddy was sentenced to 20 years in prison for
his involvement in and cover up of the Watergate
burglaries. He served nearly five years before
being released by President Jimmy Carter.

Today, Liddy hosts a Washington, DC. talk
radio program and is the author of three bestsellers.

Watergate’s Liddy to speak

 

 

 

PAGE 2

    

Gilt: iKing—tum lﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Students, society
shine in debate

The Graham-Lee-Washington Literary Society inaugurated its
year last night with the mock debate in the GHQ. And from what we
saw, things are off to a good start for the ﬂedgling society.

The performances by all ﬁve contenders for president were
admirable. The mock candidates were true to their platforms and
characters. ’

Junior Cottie Miles captured the homey spirit of Bill Clinton as
he strayed from the stage to be near the audience. He addressed
audience members by name and repeatedly tailored his statements
to the college-age crowd. V

Senior Andrew Schneider brought George Bush to the stage.
Schneider’s almost whiny voice and carefully placed pauses, bal-
anced against quick, dramatic lines like, “Watch out!” formed an
echo of the president.

Schneider also deserves credit for portraying the Republican
president. That was a contrast to Schneider’s liberal image on
campus, arising from his association with the ACLU. His eager
participation in an ironic role was a service to the literary-society
environment, challenging people’s preconceptions.

Freshman Tom Fink ﬁlled the bi g(?) Texan shoes of Ross Perot.
Fink had on hand no less than a dozen of the ﬁery billionaire’s
trigger lines and phrases. He ranted about the debt, “the gorrilla
charging up the front steps,” and promised task forces that would
look at the “plans lying all over Washington.” At one point he let
Miles/Clinton‘ and Schneider/Bush tear into each other for a few
minutes before getting up and remarking on two-party gridlock.

The real heroes of the debate are Richard Hill and Cameron
Humphries, who portrayed the Libertarian Andre Marrou and U.S.
Taxpayers candidate Howard Phillips.

Hill and Humphries had the challenging task of researching the
more obscure candidates. Both, fully in character, expressed their
appreciation for inclusion in the public forum. And both presented
the platforms with which voters, including students, are not very
familiar. This again is true to the literary-society goal of intellectual
enrichment.

The debate was wisely held in the Generals Headquarters rather
than Lee Chapel or some other, more formal place. This is consis-
tent with the Literary Society’s goal of “intellectual challenges
within social environments.” This forum offered intellectual stimu-
lation and entertainment all in one.

Students’ motives in attending ‘the debate seemed to vary.
Certainly some people came most importantly to learn more about
the parties’ platforms. And it seemed that some people came solely
to see their friends role play. We might_ suggest that students
approach the event somewhat more open,-mindedly; frat.emal_alle-
giances seemed to sway the audience polls. But most of the
spectators probably went to the debate seeking a mix of education
and entertainment, and that is a reasonable expectation.

The Literary Society indeed seems to be filling a unique role on
our campus ﬁlled by no other organization. If the society can
maintain the quality of its presentations at a level with that of the

debate, even with room for improvement in tenns of attendance,
then the the group might begin a ﬁne, new tradition at W&L.

Quote of the Week

—— Who's that?
— Robert E. Lee.
— What’s he doing?
——Lying there dead.
A— Is it a statue or did they just pour plaster over his
body?
— Conversation between father and daughter, overheard in
Lee Chapel on Parents Weekend

This is a problem that's inbred in everyone of us.
—— Junior Cottie Miles as Bill Clinton, on cultural ignorance,
employing the second definition of “inbred”

WASHINGTON —— With triumph
on sight, Bill Clinton has suddenly
veered right.

“A different Democrat” is what

 
Clinton’s campaign
veers to the right

grand strategy, or simply week—to-week
tactics? Is the self-styled ‘ ‘different
sort of Democrat” the genuine article
or merely a masked man grabbing for

more Rocky Mountain votes

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

than he deserves? Is Bill
Clinton building a mandate
for centrist, even conserva-
tive Democratic government

the 46-year-old Arkansas governor was
billing himself last week, rejecting both
the ‘ ‘trickle-down” economics of
Bush-Reagan Republicans and the ‘ ‘tax
and spend” legacy of his own party’s
once-dominant left.

‘ ‘Of all the people running for presi-

dent this year, ’ ’ he told western crowds,

“only one has ever passed a balanced

budget and only one has ever taken on

the lobbyists.’ ’

A taste for ﬁscal responsibility and

a distaste for what Ross Perot called

‘ ‘men in $1,000 suits and alligator

shoes” is not all the Fifteen Point Fa-

vorite was pushing last week.

In an all-out appeal to Bush-weary
Republicans and sometime Perotistas,

Clinton now steers a starboard course
on every high-fever issue from deﬁcit-

spending to welfare cheating and street
crime.

‘ ‘I'liere’s a new Democratic Party, ’ ’

he declared to Colorado and Wyoming
audiences, ‘ ‘and anew Democratic can-
didate.’ ’ One who backs the gas cham-
ber for killers, bad times for welfare
chiselers, and jail for young, first-time
criminals.

So what are we to make of Cliriton’s
pre-election tilt rightward? ,

Is what we're hearing a display of

or simply padding his win in
the Electoral College?

Does he seek a policy mandate Nov.
3 or only a popular one?

With the election fast approaching,
and with PresidentBushattacking hard
at Clinton’s sincerity, this is the key
question of the 1992 election:

Is Bill Clinton the man he says he is
or merely an Arkansas-accented mem-
ber of the Walter Mondale-Ted
Kennedy-Jesse Jackson faction?

Does he intend to steer an indepen-
dent course, or dance to the tune of the
interest groups who anticipate the
Democrat’s arrival in Washington as a
groom awaits his bride on their wed-
ding night? 4

I have two reasons to hope that
Clintonmeansprecisely what he’snow
confessing in cities like Cheyenne and
Pueblo —- that he intends to build a
centrist Democratic administration,
attuned to economic growth rather than
redistribution, to individual responsi-
bility rather than public largesse, to
justice for criminals rather than “fur-
loughs.”

The first is Clinton’s long support
for the maverick Democratic Leader-
ship Council. This is the largely-South-
em group of governors, senators and
members of Congress who rallied to-
gether after Ronald Reagan’s 49-state

 

  

ﬁ.‘.'.\i i\\ii\l.\'.\\iI it fit‘ t':\'i.‘. \‘1i\\£i tit .iidli\\\&s:ii\\\;} :\\i\‘\l\\i\\

  

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

.' 'iTi\R'.lI.'l's\7iii’i\\\'i-3\'ii£\l\\

landslide in 1984 to push and pull their
party to the center. To many observers,
this one included, the DLC ’s challenge
to the old Democratic establishment

—was more than a shift rightward. It was

a rescue operation, a bold campaign to
free Democratic candidates from the
clutches of the interest groups: the
teachers who claim imperial control
over education policy, the labor unions
who seek to dictate trade policy —
whatever the impact on consumers, the
fat-cat contributors who treat foreign
policy as a bidding war.

As a chairman of the DLC, Bill

Clinton has led the charge against this
Old Democratic Order . And while
he’s displayed an often unsavory pen-
chant for back sliding, the Arkansan‘
continues to argue, hardly a week be-
fore the ’92 election, that Democrzﬁs
need to get beyond their old losing,
interest group ways, no matter how
comfortable they’ve become.

The fact that he’s returned to his
centrist roots so close to Nov. 3 is the
best evidence that Clinton is seeking
not just a middle-class victory butga
pro-middle class mandate as well.

@1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

D

WASHINGTON—Everest has been conquered
and the Amazon has been explored, so the biggest
challenge remaining for intrepid people is to state
reasons for re-electing George Bush. Here goes.

Like Bush’s grating, screeching, fingerriails-on-
the-blackboard campaign, I will spend little time
being positive, relying in-

Mini-presidency preferable to Clinton

his pander bear mode, genuﬂectin g at the altar of Roe
vs. Wade, that incoherent monument to B1ackmun’s
jurisprudence. But regarding the judicial branch,
where an ethic of process should prevail, Clinton
seems purely result-oriented.

America's notorious litigiousness (more than
18,400,000 civil
suits were ﬁled in

stead on the argument that
Clinton would be even

GEoRGE WILL

state courts in

,cerning education and the — 1 .
politicizing of culture. Regarding these subjects,
Bush’s administration is at its best and a Clinton
adrriinistration might be at its worst.

The leaders of Bush’s Education Departrnent—
, Secretary Lamar Alexander, David Keams, Diane
Ravitch — and Lynne Cheney at the National En-
dowment for the Humanities are valuable precisely
because their intense interest in ideas makes them so
unlike the president they serve. A Clinton presidency
probably would bring to education policy the sclero-
sis of the public education lobbies, and to the NEH
the batty political culture of a college English depart-
ment chock full of deconstructionists.

There are 200 other reasons to re-elect Bush. That
is the number of federal judges Bush would nomi-
nate, at his current rate, in a second term — approxi-
mately one every seven days. Regarding judicial

appointments, Republican superiority is still striking
and supremely important. Republican nominees are
less apt to regard the judicial branch as a second
legislative branch, and Clinton and Congress might
do what Carter and Congress did when they ex-
panded the federal judiciary by 30 percent.

When Clinton singled out Supreme Court Justice
Harry Blackrnun (the least intellectually formidable
of today's nine) as a sitting justice he would have
liked to have appointed, he may have been merely in

woge. It cctihuld wellbetrue. 1990, up 30 per-

ut on epositive side, Washin ton P ' cent in just six
Rugnac-ityonbeha1fofprin_ g ost Writers Group years) is both
ciples is much-needed con- - cause and effect of

the lunatic prolif-
eration of lawyers (from 260,000 in 1960 to 760,000
today). Americans tend to turn every social dispute
into an angry clash of “rights,” so America is becom-
ing an increasingly discordant arena of individuals
and groups throwing elbows and shredding commu-
nity feeling. Alas, Clinton is the candidate of the trial
lawyers. His party is full of believers in litigious
liberalism. They prefer to pursue social change
through litigation rather than legislation, or through
legislation (like the Americans with Disabilities Act
and the most recent Civil Rights Act) that breeds
litigation.

Furthermore, the Democratic Party is suffused
with sympathy for the doctrine of group rights. That
doctrine is Balkanizing America into grievance groups
(the phrase is Shelby Steele’s) claiming victimiza-
tion and elaborating agendas for racial, etlmic and
sexual spoils systems. Because of the ideology of
victimization, it is improbable that a Democratic
president will talk fonhrightly about the crisis of
character in those portions of the American commu-
nity that are being destroyed by bad behavior —
crime, drug abuse, irresponsible procreation. '

Regarding the economy, Clinton’s sometimes
naive and sometimes tendentious bandying of wealth
distribution indicates both bad economics and half-
baked moral theories. With his unreﬂective rhetoric

CIinton’s election would end

about “the rich” paying “their fair share,” and ids ‘
promise of increased equality through income redis-
tribution, Clinton shows that he does not know the
crucial questions about modern society, let alone
useful answers. ‘
James Q. Wilson frames the issue as follows.
Largely because of genetic factors (and partly be-
cause of advantages of nurturing that are not any-
nable to redistribution by government), people differ

in aptitudes. Society tends to reward useful aptitudes. d

This produces hierarchies of pay and power that are
resistant to rearrangement by government, including
government attempts to redistribute income.

» Such attempts usually are perverse because they
ignore how income differences are necessary
reward activities. The attempts are short-sighted be-
cause history suggests that economic growth —
which redistributionist measures can inhibit ——does
more than redistributionist measures to narrow in-
equalities. The attempts are indefensible. Or at least
undefended, because liberals like Clinton are so
cocksure of their moral intuitions that they feel no
need to explain exactly why society would be bettcr
off if income distribution were made more equal by
government action. Liberals confuse an adjective
(“fair”) with an argument.

A Clinton presidency would be hyperkinetic. The
negligible presence of the Bush presidency in Ameri-
can life is perhaps the best reason for preferring Bush
to Clinton. ‘

Bush is presiding —— without reﬂection, of course
—— over a welcome miniaturization of the presidency.
Another Bush term and that office may be back
where it belongs, back where the sainted Coolidge
kept it, on the periphery of national consciousness,-
drained of priestly pretensions about being custodian
of “values.” Restoration of constitutional balanQe
and a sense of political proportion would be served
by four more years of this incredible shrinking presi-

denc .
y @1992, Washington Post Writers Group

gridlock .

-.~»:vvv.? ~ - "If we see ~
"g.’*.a“;".7‘:§’1:\"«s .3‘ ~“i"«’.*i.’«.

 

@112 i.Rittg—tunt lﬂlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phi1 Carrott

Business Manager. . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ’. Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, rootn
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that

Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The '

WASHINGTON— Pursuant to the
sound advice that one should perform
an unpleasant duty each day to stay in
moral trim, today I concoct the best
case I can for electing Bill Clinton.

One reason for electing Clinton is

government it already is getting, and
certainly does not need most of the
additional government that Clinton
promises and that the Democratic Con-
gress will merrily augment. But the

nation does need some more govem-

ment.
Americans, who

GEORGE WILL

Washington Post Writers Group

waste $14 billion worth
of time and fuel because
of congested highways
and airports, need in-

that re—electing Bush would prove there
is no penalty for failure in American
politics. That is a recipe for increasing
the national stock of failure.

Bush’s record is poor and his carn-

paigri has been execrable. Before the
1988 campaign a Democrat said, “If
we can’t beat Bush, we have to pick
another country.” If after these four
years and this campaign the Demo-
cratic Party loses again, it may become
as irresponsible as the Republican Party
became after 1948 (remember Joe
McCarthy), when it lost a fourth con-
secutive election.

Furtherrnore, it might be useful, if
only to restore the good name of
gridlock, to have responsibility ﬁrmly
fixed in one party controlling both po-
litical branchesof the federal govem-
ment. Why anyone would want
Washington’s political culture to be
given an opportunity for unrestrained
expression, 1 cannot imagine. But
people complain about gridlock, so let
it be gone. The resulting growth of
government will at least be accompa-
nied by clarity about which party is
accountable for the mess the growth
inevitably will make.

America does not need all of the

creased spendin g on in-
frastructure. The nation needs some
preventative government -— measures
to forestall future and larger demands
on government. Child care and public
health education are examples. America
ranks 25th among nations in the immu-
nization rate of preschool children and
worse regarding immunization of non-
white children. And almost half the
mortality in America is related to health-
damaging behavior — smoking, drug
and alcohol abuse, unsafe sex and driv-
ing, etc.
Clinton’s life has unfortunatelybeen
an almost seamless glide from campus
into government, but at least he has
been a governor and may be amenable
to fresh thinking about federalism. For
decades the federal government, that
overbearing and overreaching under-
achiever, has been on a binge of “activ-
ity acquisition” (Alice Rivlin’s phrase).
It is now buckling beneath the weight.
We need a sorting-out of federal from
state and local responsibilities. It is
possible, if just barely, to hope Clinton
can undertake this, against the opposi-
tion of all the interests to which he and
his party are beholden — interests with
much invested in their leverage in
Washington.

Onthetheorythat“onlyNixoncould
have gone to China” — the theory that
there are some thorny issues only con-
servatives (or liberals) will be trusted
to touch — perhaps it is time for
liberalism’s moral vanity to meet real-
ity. Clinton and his party think they
have cornered the market on “compas-
sion” and can ‘—‘control”_ the cost of
medical care. Let them come to grips
with facts like this: 30 percent of all
Medicare dollars are spent on patients
in the last twelve months of life.

Fifty percent of American youths
do not attend college. Half of America's
high schools have no
physics teachers.
Half of the math and
science teachers are
not certified in those

subjects. Perhaps
Clinton can reason
with the most retro-
grade force in
American education
— his fervent sup--
porters in the public
education lobby —
to raise standards
and spend the ample
education dollars
more sensibly. (Per

American

jects. _

ifty percent of

not attend college.
Half of America’s
high schools have no
physics teachers. Half
of the math and sci-
ence teachers are not’
certified in those sub-

taxes pledge to 99 percent of taxpay-
ers. Itshould be entertaining to see him
try to keep that promise (and the prom-
ise of middle-class tax relief, and of
deficit reduction, and of dozens of new
programs) and also keep his libeial
friends friendly.

    
    
   
   

6

)
(Actually, to be pitilessly fair,

Clinton promises several substantial
new taxes on workers and consumers.
Requiring business to pay re-training
and medical care taxes will take money
from what otherwise would be work-

Q

I
ers ’ wages and from consumers through

increased prices of goods and services.)
The paramount
issue is how to re-
store sustained eco-
youths d0 cientto generate jolgs
and the revenues e-
quired for a welfare
state serving an ag-
ing population. Per-
haps Clinton is cor-
rect. Perhaps such
growth will be
achieved by siphon-
ing money from
wealthy investing in-
dividuals and giving»
it to politicians to

pupil spending on
grades K-12 in-
creased 35 percent in constant dollars
during the last decade, but much of it
stuck to the Velcro of bureaucracy.)
Liberals who excoriate Bush for his
“irresponsible” no-new-taxes pledge
shouldnote that Clinton pledges no
new taxes on individuals other than
those with adjusted gross earnings of at
least $150,000 and on joint ﬁlers cam-
in g at least $200,000. That is a no-new-

disperse (often to
public employees
who are the new core of the Dem!-
cratic Party, which represents govem-
ment as an interest group).

Perhaps.

This policy will either be success-
ful, in which case the nation will re-
joice, or it will be educational, remind-
ing the nation why it turned right not Q)
long ago.

©1992, Washington Post Writers Group

v

I

v

nomic growth sufﬁ— ‘

v

F

o

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

O

OPINION

0 Beware the over-eager meter person

8

C

ONE GUY’s OPINION
' By Chris Citron

Before I begin, I’d just like to take
some time to say something that has
come to mean so much to me recently.
(To be sung to the tune of Canada’s
national anthem).

‘ Oh Toronto
Thank God you beat the
Braves in six
Now I don’t have to see those
STUPID tomahawks and
listen to the bandwagon
Brave’s fans for another

9 year.

4

Okay, so it lost its musical integrity,
but honestly, who cares? The Blue
Jays beat the Braves. The Blue Jays
beat the Braves. The Blue Jays beat the
Braves. Ifeel better now. And let’s get

bit cleared up here so I don’t get any
more really cool letters: I’m not a

bandwagon Blue Jays fan; I’m anti-V

Braves.

Actually, I really don’t have much
to say this week. Not that that has ever
stopped me before, but today I am truly

‘at a loss. However, (Was hoping I was
just gonna end the column like that,
huh? Wrong. I won’t let you off that
easily.) However, I would like to men-

tion that there’s a guy ridin’ around in
a golf cart/motor scooter/bi g wheel/
green machine combination who is tak-
ing his job way too seriously. And I
know, that you know, that I know, that
you know, exactly who I’m talkin’
about.

This guy’s job is not that difficult.
Nor is it that big a deal.
And yet, he makes it a
big deal. He once tried
to give me a ticket on a
bike. A bike! A friend
and I were going back
to the house one after-
noon on the sidewalk;

I would like to men-
tion that there’s a guy
ridin’ around in a golf
cart/motor scooter/big
wheel/green machine

to write me up for riding on the side-
walk. I started to bike away, but was
afraid he might have Turbo in that can,
and instead justthanked him for the
warning.

Others have not been so for-
tunate, however. I know one student

who received a ticket, on a bike, for

running a red
light. And still
another who got
a speeding ticket
on a bike for go-
ing over 15 mph.
I'd ask whether or
not he has any-

he was walking, I was _ . _ thing better to do
onmybikeandwewere combination who IS with his time,bﬁ1t
keepingpacewitheach ' ' ° it seems that e

taking [118 _]0b way too does_ whenever

other. Now my friend
wasn't walking too

seriously. And I know,

he’s not chasing

quiuckjy bicaused that you know, that I dowrg , parked
 cars, 6 SC asm

:ieIwas»en’vtvf1rSulj?i:ida$g know! that you know’ down unleasheg
in the real sense ofthe exactly who I’m animals. Yés.
word. But sure enough, ' 9 he’s not only the
you-know-who ges- talk“! al,)0ut' meter person

tured to me. I thought

he was waving, so I moved along and
waved back. But he kept doing it,
which led me to the conclusion that
there was something wrong with him,
so I approached him and his three-
wheelin’ tricycle, where he proceeded

(wouldn’t wantto
start anything sexist, y’know?), but
he’s also the dog catcher.

It is not my intention to demean this
man’s occupation, but there’s some-
thing about that job that intrinsically
armoys me, besides the fact that I have

to pay money. I’ve come to the conclu-
sion that it’s because he acts too cool.
I’m surprised he hasn’t put a sticker on
the back of his vehicle that says: ‘ ‘R;D.
RADICAL DUDE.” He should be
motorin’ down Washington Street with
“R.D. RIGHTEOUS DEATH”
painted on the side, Terminator shades
on, and a big, old, leather belt that has
a notch for every ticket he’s written.
Sort of a hybrid between Clint
Eastwood, Arnold Schwarzenegger,
Mr. Farley from “Three’s Company,”
and Mr. McPheeley from ‘ ‘Mister
Roger’s Neighborhood.” Then he'd
at least look the part he’s got the atti-
tude for. And it might actually be
worth the price of a ticket.

Maybe if he didn’tride in the scooter,
I’d like his job a little more. Or if every
once in a while he left a note saying
”Next time it’ll be $10,” instead of a
ticket, I'd appreciate his effort. Or if he
smiled when he wrote the ticket like
Baner does, maybe I'd like him as
much as I looooove Baner.

Maybe. But perhaps the only reso-
lution would be to stop giving those
darrtntickets. ‘Relax R.D. Acarparked
for more than two hours isn ’t the end of
the world. Take it easy. And write me
something meaningful next time you
get my car. It's gold, with a Maryland
plate.

6

Parking problems

To the Editors:
I am writing in regard to the lunacy of the parking
mystem in Lexington, Va. I parked my car in the
parking lot behind Bestseller Books. I parked it a

9:45 a.m., noticing that they had changed the lot from '

a two-hour to one-hour limit. I returned to my car at
10:57 a.m. to find a dog catcher/rent-a-cop placing a
ticket on my car.

When I told him that I was there for only a few

mminutes extra he told me “no grace, one-hour limit,

move your car every hour.” Though I did comment
on his use of the English language, I realized that this
was happening to all other cars in the lot. I have also
noticed that many of the parking lots have been
changed from two-hour to one-hour limits. 4
This “screw the students” tactic obviously will

. force students from these lots even though we are
forced to pay car taxes, which I’ve paid. There is no.

possible way for a student to even go to one class and
return in time so as not to get a ticket.
If the patrons of Lexingtonvare pleased with this

tactic maybe W&L should no longer openvourrpark- '

_ in g lots in the summer to Lexington citizens. After all
, I pay taxes for the Lexington streets, but they do not
pay a car registration fee for W&L parking lots.

_ Sincerely,
Bill Chappell, ’94

A‘ Junior Class President

Scholar speaks up for program

To the Editors:

The Washington and Lee faculty will vote next
Monday on the proposed elimination of the Univer-
sity Scholars Program. Certain administrators and
faculty members feel the program no longer serves
the purpose for which it was created — to give
intellectually motivated students a chance to meet
and take courses outside the regular curriculum.

Some of the faculty contest that the quality of
students at Washington and Lee has so improved over
the past few years that the program no longer applies
to the needs of students, since all students are of an
equal level of intelligence.

Yet I feel it is necessary to examine this situation
a little closer. While University Scholars do not by
any means claim to possess intelligence superior to
that of other Washington and Lee students, they were
however chosen to participate in the program be-
cause of their intellectual motivation and eagerness
for learning. But does the present Washington and
Lee community as a whole provide an environment

conducive to intellectual thought, motivation, and
“curiosity? Perhaps, for some.

As a freshman last year, I remember the excite-
ment I felt when I left for college — I eagerly
anticipated opportunities to discuss and share ideas
with other individuals, both inside and outside the
classroom. Yet upon my arrival, 1 instead found
myself ridiculed for studying and for wanting to
study, and it seemed as though working as little as
possible to achieve one’s desired grade was the
primary goal.

I was admitted to the University Scholars Pro-
gram during the fall of my freshman year and since

Miller ’s treatment was unfair

‘Dear Editor:

The manner in which the SCC has expelled Marcus
Miller disgusts me and embarrasses Washington and
Lee University. Throughout my four years in Lexing-
ton the W&L community cultivated a special atmo-
sphere which placed a gentleman’s conduct before
distrust.

3 Mr. Miller’s actions this fall were both absolutely
honest and gentlemanly in nature, amounting to nei-
ther trespassing nor harassment. To conclude that
Mr. Miller’s conduct was unreasonable and intoler-
able the SCC had to abandon both common sense and
justice. They revealed their desire to condemn Mr.

Miller again for an incident last year that was of so
‘ 0

little substance that even a Lexington court dis-
missed it. _

What Mr. Miller has been expelled for is failing
to see that the SCC applies different standards of
behavior to different students and thus requires
certain students to “know their place.”

I, as many others, have known Marcus Miller to
be a true and honest friend for six years and I would
stack his moral character against that shown by the
members of the SCC any day. It is a shame that the
SCC represents Washington and Lee University in
this disgraceful fashion. 4

Paul C. Galanides ’90

Interviews and Photos

-‘By Jameson Leonardi

 

then have found encouragement from and conversa-
tion with other Scholars. While I do not suggest that
Washington and Lee is intellectually barren and void
of all thought-provoking activity, I submit that the

program gives exceptionally motivated students the '

opportunity to come together. _
To my knowledge, the majority of students here,
much to the dismay of the faculty, do not sit around
on weekends engaging indiscussions about lifeviews,
religion, etc. (OK, exception, Jim and Babli). The
University Scholars Program gives me that chance

and for me had really just begun with the seminar I '

took last spring.

I beseech the faculty, then, not to vote down the
program but instead to consider its continuation, for
even though it would gradually phase out, I would
hate for freshmen to miss this chance and for future
prospectives to be turned away by Washington and
Lee’s lack of a centralized honors program While I
recognize that problems exist within the program, I
feel that with considerable revision University Schol-
ars can survive. ‘ ’

Yes, its administration and structure need reorga-
nization, perhaps to create a more inclusive program
that would work with the honors programs of indi-
vidual departments. The scholars themselves need to
take an active role in planning, restructuring, and the
overall amending of the program.

If we are motivated enough to participate in the
University Scholars Program, I promise that we are
indeed motivated enough to aid in its reshaping and
continuation.

Thank you,
Allyson Gardner, ’94

Comment on Citron

To the Editor:

Although some in the Psychology Department
might be concerned with Mr. Citron’s debilitating
case of large-penis envy, the rest of us are not.

In the future, please ensure that Mr. -Citron’s wet
dreams remain in his mind, where they belong, and
not in print.

Distantly,
Christopher E. Vinyard, '93

TALKBACK

 

Women’s Forum

There will be a meeting of
Women’s Forum this Sunday, Nov.
1 at 7 p.m. in the Women’s Center.
Health educator Jan Kaufman will
lead a discussion entitled “Playing
it Safe,” sexual decision-making
and communication. Everyone is
welcome.

Lecture

Pam Fesler, Senior Reporter for
the Congressional Quartery, will
give a talk “The Results of the 1992
Elections: An Early Appraisal’ on
Monday, Nov. 9 at 4 p.m. in the
Commerce School room 327.

WLUR will present an album
feature every Thursday from 5-5:45
p.m. Listen to hear new albums
from the hottest rock artists. Signs
will be posted each week as to what
band will be highlighted.

The Black Law Students’ Asso-
ciation would like to invite the W&L
and Lexington/Buena Vista com-
munities to hear the Honorable
Judge Shackleford speak on Tues-
day, Nov. 10 at6 p.m. in Classroom
C of the Law School (Lewis Hall).
Reception to follow.

Film Society

The W&L Film Society is.

pleased to armounce its next pre-
sentation, “Hearts of Darkness”
(USA, 1991). Showings will be at
8:05 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 30 and
Saturday, Oct. 31 in the Trouba-
dour Cinema. As always, there is
no charge for admission.

Haunted House

On Halloween, the Lambda Chi
Alpha Fraternity and the Lexington
Police Dept. are co-sponsoring a
Haunted House for the children of
Lexington (ages 12and under). The
location will be 225 E; Nelson St.,
adjacent to the Spottswood Drive
entrance to the hospital. The
Haunted House will be open from
7-9 p.m. Admission is 50 cents and
goes to the United Way.

Amnesty

There will be an important Am-
nesty International meeting Tues-
day, Nov. 3 at 6:30p.m. in

Newcomb Hall. Everyone is wel- ‘

come.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates Friday and Saturday nights
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Live Drive
is also looking for volunteer driv-

ers. If interested call Melissa or
less at 464-4017.

Financial Aid

Students needing financial as-
sistance for Spring Tenn Abroad

, Programs should contact the Finan-

cial Aid Office immediately. For
those students who have not sub-
mitted a Financial Aid Form for
1992-93, the priority deadline for
submission for spring term assis-
tance is Nov. 2.

Phoneathon

The first week of Phoneathon is
Sunday, Nov.1 through Thursday,
Nov. 5. If you would like to call
alumni for the Annual Fund, please
contact one of your class agents. A
list of class agents can be found
outside of Carol Calkins’ office and
on the Kathekon board.

FBIS

Foreign Broadcast Information
Service is holding an information
session at 4 p.m. in room 114 on
Monday, Nov. 2. Students in all
majors are invited. FBIS hires spe-
cialists in foreign languages, jour-
nalism, social and political sciences,
international affairs and area stud-
ies, history, electrical engineering,
science and technology, communi-
cations and video, and technical

support.

Pub Board

The Publications board will meet
Monday at 8 p.m. in room 208 of

the University Center.

College Dems

There _will be a meeting of the
College Democrats this Sunday,
Nov. 1 at 7 p.m. in the University
Center GAme Room. For more in-
formation call 463-8984.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

For The Record

In the article titled “Get a taste of the real Hill” in the Oct. 22 issue of
the Phi, the courses required for the Washington Term Program should
have read Politics 101, 102 or 103. Also, the student to contact for more

information is senior Rob Burger.

In the article titled “EC denies ACLU funding...” in the Oct. 22 issue of
the Phi, the by-line should have read Francesca Kefalas.

In the article “Group to give business advice” in the Oct. 15 issue of the
Phi, the by-line should have read Jameson Leonardi.

In the article“Post office boxes restricted for safety” in the Sept. 24
issue of the Phi, the by-line should have read Tom Hespos.

 

What is the most terrifying sightyou can imagine?

P.J. Waicus, ’93, Moorestown,
NJ. —— “Bernie Porter and Graham
Taylor in Speedos.”

Mac Jennings, ’96, Burke, Va. —
— “Jerry Garcia‘s obituary.”

Lollie Sheehan, ’94, Savannah, Ga. and Abby Kane, ’94, Savannah, Ga.
— “Remn dancing naked on a table.”

....-.._-.._-.,._ ....-_-_.~-.1..- .*:.‘.'. -_-,-.-. -I,-.,;...-;.x .-.-_ - V ~.-;v..._~__ ~- —- - » -

Mark Marasciullo, 393, Dix Hills,
N.Y.-——“Roseanne Barr in a G-string.”

 

Anne-Michelle Langlois, ’95,
Gulfport, Miss. —“Clinton as presi-

dent.”

 

 

PAGE 4

hen women first arrived at Washington and
Lee in 1985, they were met by many dis-
gruntled upperclassmen wearing graphic t-
shirts that protested their presence. While
many agree there is still progress to be
made, few will disagree the attitude towards women at
W&L has changed dramatically in the past seven years.

The main reason W&L turned to coeducation was the
declining quality of the applicant pool the admissions ofﬁce
was seeing.

“Very few strong applicants were looking for an all-male
student body. Coeducation was the practical answer to
saving our academics,” said Associate Professor of Eco-
nomics John Gurm, who has been associated with W&L as
both a student and professor for 51 years.

In August 1985, Associate Dean of Students Anne
Schroer-Lamont, a psychologist with background in work-
ing with gifted women and career development, was hired
specifically to aid the transition of women on W&L’s
campus.

Schroer-Lamont was not to initiate any programs alone,
but rather to be a sounding board for the ideas of the
students.

The women at W&L strive to be equals with their male
peers.

“The biggest movement for women is for them to come
here and achieve academically, be elected to significant
positions, and party,” said Schroer-Larnont.

The admissions office quota seems to inﬂuence women’s
comparable academic performances as well as their chances
of obtaining student government ofﬁces. '

“The quota of 40 percent women versus 60 percent males
was made by the Board of Tnistees. The Board didn't want
to enlarge the size of the University but researched that our
male athletic program couldn’t function at its traditional
standards with less than 1000 males,” Guim said. “The
consequence of this limit is that the cutoff for females is
higher, thus their average GPA's are consistently higher.”

Students agree that the quota causes inequalities in the
classroom.

“It seems the girls’ statistics are a lot higher. It can be
aggravating. It seems like unfair competition because it’s
almost like two different standards,” junior J .B. Meek said.
“It ends up guys are competing with people who could have

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

FEATURES

y FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

ended up at Yale. Girls can be intimidating in the class-
room.”

“From what I’ve seen so far is that girls do a little more .

work in preparing for class. Maybe it’s because guys have
had a lot to do with fraternities lately,” freshman Les Borden
said.

The majority of students feel they are treated fairly
equally in the classroom.

“My professors treat us all the same. I haven’t found a
difference,” said freshman Ainsley Fisher.

“I’ve never had any experience with an unfair professor
and I’ve had a bunch of classes where I’m the only woman.
It hasn't made a difference,” senior Liz Randol said.

“The professors are all pretty fair. Deep down 1 get the
feeling the professors still feel like girls are something to
look at,” freshman Chrissy

CA Coed Future:

‘A rzd this if

the H0me—Ec0n0mz°cs

    
  

I building. . . .. ’

Donnelly said.

The prejudices that once faced
women nmning for office are no
longer abundant, women say.

“When I was a freshman, guys
would go up to women in my
class that were nmning for office
and tell them ‘Girls just don’t rim
for office here. It’s not appropri-
ate,”’ Randol said.

The quota seems to be a factor
in the success of women in ob-
taining ofﬁces.

“Many members of the
Women’s Forum feel the quota
is holding us back from serving
in leadership positions. We are
currently trying to ﬁnd out the
reasons it isn’t changed,” senior
and Women’s Forum President
Shannon Comer said.

The relationship"between
W&L students and nearby
women’s college students has
also been debated since coedu-
cation.

“The social situation before
women was unhealthy. The

From The Ring-tum Phi, Oct. 20, 1983

guests from women’s colleges

College Democrats
Proudly Support ’

People First
Clintonl Gore
'92

_come here thinking they’ll have

'1985]. And it has been a very

were treated badly by many too many. Coeducation has
brought much healthier conditions,” Gunn said.

“I would like to see a better relationship with the women,”
said Comer. “The term ‘road cheese’ is not supportive.
W&L is their only social outlet. 1 would like to have a place
for them to sleep and feel safe. We have not made too much
progress in getting the Women’s Center approved for this,
due to liabilities.”

Some female students don ’t wholeheartedly welcome
the presence of these out-of-town women.

“The women’s college students are pretty nice. I just
wish they'd go somewhere else to party,” said Fisher.

Some students say the dating scene for W&L women is
rough.

“For the most part, men don’t seem to have any respect
[for women’s college students]

'9

structure is male dominated and the fraternities are still so
strong. A lot of progress could be made. I would like to see
women have more voice on campus and in the student
government. The women’s activities need more funding,
and most colleges would have an active staff along with the
Women’s Center," said Comer. ’

The Women’s Forum would also like to see the return of
the Status of Women Committee. .

In 1988 a diverse group of male and female professors,
undergraduate students and law students investigated the
advancement of women on campus.

"‘They conducted a very thorough study. They planned
for the committee to meet every year, but it wasn’t done,”’
said Comer.

Not all students look forward to the permeation of these
programs. I

“The advent of women has brought this college closer to
the national norm. lhad planned to come toaschool thatwas
untouched. Feminism and political correctness are very
demeaning to this grand institution, ” Meek said. I

“Tradition makes W&L what it is. Women have opened
the doors to change and it just seems there is less and less of
the traditional W&L. But I don’t see single-sex education
as better than coeducational,” sophomore Ryan Boone said.

A conglomerate of coeducational studies from Yale,
Princeton, Davidson and other colleges that have undergone
coeducational adjustments show it takes about seven tog
eight years before women openly discuss changes with a
college’s coeducation program.

“We are ﬁnding our voices right on time. This year’s
freshmen feel more like that first class of women. I have
spent more time with them than other classes. They are
asking questions and venting their anger,” said Schroer-
Lamont. ' 0

“Women have brought so much to W&L. There is now
a total sense of well being and happiness. Women have
raised this school to a quality which nobody anticipated,”
said Gurm.

“It would be unrealistic to go to a single-sex college. Life
isn’t like that,” Donnelly said. “We need to learn to live
together.” ,

Editor's note: This is the ﬁrst of a two-part series about
W&L women. Next week's article focuses on Women’s
Forum.

and the women here have the
same prejudice. That doesn’t
apply for everyone, but tl1at’s a
tendency,” said Randol.

“I think W&L girls have a
huge chip on their shoulder when
it comes to women’s college stu-
dents,” Meek said. “W&L girls

the pick of the litter because of
the ratio and it’s a cold surprise
when they ﬁnd out there are four
significantly large girl schools
nearby.”

Men and women say the over-
all attitudes between the sexes on
campus have obviously under-
gone a change.

“There has been a deﬁnite
change in the attitude that males
have towards women [since

healthy change,” Schroer-
Lamont said. “However we aren’t
ﬁnished with the transition until
the attitude is not even an issue.”

“I personally have a problem
with the attitude between the

‘lAn_d then my adviser said, ‘The boys may be a bit curious at first  .

‘”" I////./ti 

 

¢  .

    

sexes at this school. The power

From The Ring-tum Phi, Sept. 12, 1985

I

/

 

V

\.\'.\'()l'\CI\'(} IIII" CRIiI" (iI.()Ii.\I. I{Ql'I IIIIS .\(‘C()l',\"I‘.tltI' S()l'.\I) RI’.‘I'IRI"\l|i.\"I‘ I.\'\'IiS'I'I\'(L '

WE’VE PUT A NEW SPIN
ON INVESTING WITH TIAA-CREF -

t TIAA-CREF, our goal has always
been to make your retirement dollars
go farther. Now, they can go as far as
London, Frankfurt or Tokyo—or anywhere
else in the world where financial oppor-
tunities seem promising—with our new
CREF Global Equities Account.
TI'IE CREF GLOBAL EQIJITIES
ACCOUNT EXPANDS THE HORIZON

' FOR RETIREMENT SAVINGS.

The CREF Global Equities Account is
an actively-managed portfolio of both
foreign and domestic stocks selected for
diversity and growth potential. As part of
a wide range of annuity and investment
alternatives already offered by TIAA-CREF,
it can increase your ability to create a more
balanced, well-rounded retirement plan.
While returns may vary over time, the
CREF Global Equities Account is based
on CREF's already-existing strength
and the long-term approach to investing
that has made TIAA-CREF America's
preeminent pension organization.

WHEN IT COMES TO
FOREIGN HVVESTHVG, WE'RE
ON FAMILIAR GROUND.

We've been speaking the language of
foreign investing for nearly twenty years.
That 's when we pioneered investing pension
funds on an international level. All those

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it 3"

© I 992 Timber; Irmrmrirr am) A rinuil y l1J'.!'(F("MIl'(’Il/C‘I7‘[k¢( Rrliremcru‘ E4ui'Ii'z.r Fund

I_

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

years of research, market analysis and
cultivation of regional contacts have given
us special insight into the risks and rewards
of today's global marketplace. Q
DISCOVER MORE ABOUT OUR
NEW GLOBAL EQUITIES ACCOUNT.
The CREF Global Equities Account is
offered through your TIAA-CREF retire-
ment annuities, subject to the provisions of ‘
your employer's retirement plan. It is auto-

 

. . C
matically available for TIAA-CREF Supple-
mental Retirement Annuities (SRAs).

To find out more about the CREF
Global Equities Account or TIAA-CREF's
other annuity and investment alternatives,
send for our free brochure. Or call
1 800-842-2776. ,
You'll find that at TIAA-CREF, our '
world revolves around helping you build a
secure and rewarding future.
SEND FOR
OUR FREE BOOKLET

Tb. cmsr GbbalEquil‘le.rAccoun!-- '
A W/orl(7af0,npar!uni'ly and learn more
about this exciting new CREF Account.
Mail this coupon to: TI/\A'CREF.
Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue. New York.
NY l00l7. Or call I 800-842-2776.
Nimi((Plcase print)
/iJ()rr.r.r .
(‘Hy Smfr Zip Cmir
Iri.r/1'/ulimi (Full name)
T[[[( I)ii_y1i'Irir P/Mnr( )
TI/{A-(‘RI*.‘I~'Par!i1'i,miriI l_f‘yr.-', Suriul Srruri'I_v 33
D X».- El iv.» — — 0

CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. For more complete information,
including charges and expenses, call 1 800-842-2735. ext. 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.

 

I

e Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

By JOYCE BAUITSTA‘
Phi Features Editor

. ram ghoulies and ghosties,
long Ieggetie beasties and
things that go bump in the
night. Good Lord deliver us.

— Invocation from the Scottish
rayerbook, circa 1600.

, I-Talloween traditionally marks the
time of the year when_the spirits of the
ead walk among the living.
According to some students these
strange occurrences are notabsent from
&L.
One student recalls a story that his

I’ told him. I

The student’s father arrived late to

I ear a speaker in Lee Chapel and the

nly seats available for him and his
wife were in the front row.

When he sat down he felt a nudge.

,. e sitting in the same spot General
' O rt

E. Lee sat during chapel ser-
ices.
“He told my mother to move over
3 - cause Lee signaled that he wanted to
' t there,” the student said.
Another story about Lee Chapel
ncems a man in

 

rm, -: i .  :-
Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

     

The Mlddleton House facade hints of stories old and events
unknown. Built In the mid-1700s, the Jefferson Street home Is said
to be haunted by several ghostly specters.

“I got the feeling that somebody
was trying to tell me something,” he
said.

Anne Wilson

;9thQ:entury dress. said some say that
“As the story Lee’s wife can be
,. s,” Professor of heard roaming the
I, istory Taylor The statue ofCyrus porch in her wheel-
anders said, “a Mccormick is also chair.
oman was ac- th b- t f “My daughter
: osted by a man in e S“ -Iec 0 wasonceintheroom
ietiteentutydxessin strange campus between the study
I e aprons of the events_ A senior Stu. and the music room
~ ge.” d t . d h d the night before the
1 Even the Lee en Sal_ S e an anniversaiyofLee’s
'~ ouseisnotimmune some friends were death and felt a
2 mits share of tall ' whirlwind sweepby
es. out one foggy night her,” Anne said.

“Che first mom-
g that I took resi-
ence in Lee House
went for a jog and
hen I came back I
as locked out,”
niversityPresident
hid). Wilson said.
Also, the university telephone
.- stem in the house went down and the
'1 ts went off for his first 24 hours as

move.

in front of the chapel
and saw the statue

“Ever since then
she’s been a little
sensitive to the no-
tion of ghosts.”

Payne Hall is an-
other campus build-
ing that has its share
of stories. ,

“I had ameeting in Payne one night.
We turned out the lights and continued
to talk outside,” one sophomore stu-

told us to turn out the lights. We thought

FEATURES

pooks haunt Lexington

. hosts and ghouls lurk in the dark corners of W&L, VMI and the town“

 

PAGE 5

 

ghosts lurk at the Virginia Militar
Institute. -

“It is told in Lexington that once,”
Knox wrote, “soon after New Market
Day, two impressionable ladies who
were walking at dusk past Sir Moses
Ezekiel’s superb statue of ‘Virginia
Mourning Her Dead,’ thatbroods above
the graves of six of the seven cadets
who died in the battle or later because

' of their wounds, told their friends that
they heard the statue crying. and saw
real tears on her bronzeface.”

According to Knox’ s book, Lexing-
ton homes have their share of ghosts.

“When the oak leaves rattle and
winter's chilly ﬁngers creep along the
spine, Lexington ghosts come out of
their hiding,” Knox wrote.

Her book recounts ghost stories
collected from over the years and pub-
lished in local periodicals.

Lon g-time Lexington resident Jack
Roberson lives in the allegedly haunted
Middleton House on Jefferson Street,
next to Norman E. Coffey Furniture.

“Legend has it that my house is full
of ghosts,” Roberson said. “I’ve lived
here 70 years and I’ve never seen one.”

it was odd but did it. According to the
He locked the door book, a young girl
behind us.” has been seen comb-

The next day the ing her hair in an up-
security guard told stairs window and a

the student that after

 

slave couple lurks

checkingthe doors of through the halls of
Lee Chapel, another the home.
guard had double- “I think many of
checked the doors of the stories about my
Payne and they were house were the re-
unlocked and the sult of amentally ill
lights were on. child that used tolive
The statue of here,” Roberson

Cyms McCormick is also
the subject of strange
campus events.
A senior student said
she and some friends
were out one foggy
night in front of the
chapel and saw the
statue move. »
“It looked as if it was
rocking on its heels,” she
said. “The funniest thing is that
we weren’t even drunk.”
According to The Gentle Ghosts, a

    
  
 
  
 
   

iversity president. dent  “Security then came by and . book by Anne McCorkle Knox, some
I
Bill N ave saved these
0

    
 

kids from drowning,

but he’s not '

a lifeguard.

° Verleeta W/ooten found

several

« I but she’s not

These are

teachers. But

9 \

“ an astronomer.
A

5 O

5

I

I

C .‘

I

C

7
. , they re

   
  

to the kids they reach,

heroes .

new stars,

‘ BE A TEACHER.

J
- BE

A HERO.

* Call l-800-45-TEACH .

D , A Public Service of
0 5 9. ‘rm: Publication

_ Photos: Robin Sachs

Reach forAthe Power
1 lJ[1\J11

jlX1'IC~X_

' said.
Roberson said sev-
eral people have also
seen a woman in a red
dress.
“When the papers
got wind of the sto-
ries,” he said, “report-
ers wouldn’t come
close to the house.”
Regardless of the sto-
ries Roberson remains a dis-
believer in the supernatural.
“I don't believe in ghosts,” he said.
“They are simply mental projections.”

 
    
 
   
  
 
  

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Season

5 Electronic signal

9 Disfigure
13 Jai -
14 Opera singer
Gluck
15 Fur piece
16 Repeat
18 Domesticates

-19 Kickoff prop

20 Paris subway

21 Put up

22 Strong wind

23 Rope for a
vaquero

25 School break

28 Old
MacDonald's
home

29 Engine part

32 Sacred images

33 Biblical prophet

34 Genetic letters

35 Weighty work

36 Old Nick

38 Cut of meat

39 Tavern drink

40 Locale

41 Of a certain
country: pref.

42 Collection

.43 Martial and fine

44 The — of two
evils .

45 Laws partner

47 Season

48 Recorded

50 Violin maker of
old

52 Modern: pref.

55 Wipe out

56 Confess

58 Stair feature

59 Keep —- on
(watch)

60 Different

61 "Two Years
Before the —"

62 RBI, e.g.

63 Bullfight cheers

DOWN

1 Datum

2 Succulent plant

3 Brain or duck
start

 

@1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

4 Fib
5 Hard rolls
6 Thrill
7 Moslem prince
8 Wide view
9 Launch
10 Find
11 Actor Guinness
12 Take a break
15 Generates
vapor

. 17 stockpile

22 Dancer Kelly
24 Press
25 Hayworth and
Moreno
26 French school
27 Occur
28 Goddesses of
desﬁny
30 Fragrant herb
31 Grand house
36 Father
37 Entices
38 "— For Life“
40 Gloomier
41 Souvenir

 

>10/29/92

Last week's answers:

44 Final
46 Adjust the alarm 52 Actress Carter
47 Brazilian dance 53 Bed of roses

51 Castle defense

48 Jail sentence
49 Opera solo

54 Persons
57 Lion

Morning Mag (Rock) - Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.

Jazz - Monday, 9 a.m.-1la.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-l 1 :30 a.m.
AM Overture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-ll a.m.
Inspirational - Thursday, 9 a.m.-ll a.m.; Monday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.
Public Affairs -Monday through Friday, 11 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
Country - Monday through Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.

Dance/Rap - Tuesday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
Rock - Wednesday through Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.

Breakthrough Rock - Monday through Friday, 3:30 p.m.—5 :30 p.m.
Classical Showcase - Monday through Thursday, 6 p.m.-9 p.m.
Third Ear - Monday through Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.

THE OFFICE OF CAREER PLANNING
AND PLACEMENT
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
INVITES YOU TO ATTEND THE

NINTH ANNUAL
MINORITY CAREER DAY

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, I992
OMNI HOTEL
DOWNTOWN CHARLOTTESVILLE

 

 

  
  
   
    
 
 

MEET I40 EMPLOYERS FROM ACROSS THE COUNTRY.

JOIN MINORITY STUDENTS FROM 50 COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES IN VIRGINIA AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

REGISTER THROUGH YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OR
CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE.

BRING MULTIPLE COPIES OF YOUR RESUMEI

Vote in Friday's Mock Election
8 am. - 4 p.m. outside the Co-op

Contact presents

  

G.Gordon Liddy

Tonight

8 p.m. in Lee Chapel

 
  

I I
ciudiotronics
AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
TOSHIBA MARANTZ
KEF CWD _
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA

’ SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

‘ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

‘ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
‘ IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

' MASTER CARD / VISAI DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden 8: Starkey Roads 1
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

You could
‘ own this
space.
Call Benji at
463-8581

 

 
   

   
  

 ‘-.4.

vuav-‘VA...-;r. A , .

 Staff Writer

  when Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi
Epsilon move into their new houses in

‘Davidson Park next fall, Washington

and Lee's three-year, $13 million game
' of fraternity house musical chairs will
ﬁnally be over.

But the administration is still play-
ing with the possibilities of what to do
with_ the old Sigma Chi, Sigma Phi
Epsilon and Kappa Sigma houses.

According to Dean of Students

9 David Howison, Sigma Chi’s proxim-
. ity to campus makes it ideal for admin-
‘ istrative uses. é‘
‘ “[What to do with] Sigma Chi is the
, priority decision,'f Howison said.
“We're definitely’ going to use that
space to support the students in some
way.”
‘ 7 Howisonsaid he hopes the house
‘ will hold administrative offices that
serve students, like the Career Devel-
. opment and Placement Office. Sigma
‘Chi couldalso be the home for some
, _st1_rde_nt offices currently in the Univer-

S sity "Center, or a combination of stu-'

dent and administrative offices,
Howison said.“ ' v‘
 '-gﬂowison said the house will deﬁ-
nitely not be used as a residence.

A decision probably will be made
toward the end of winter term, Howison

said, so renovations can begin as soon
as the Sigma Chis move out in June.

Capital Planning Assistant Frank
Parsons said construction crews won’t
have to add restrooms, party rooms or
kitchen facilities to the house, which
makes administrative renovation
cheaper than Fraternity Renaissance.

“[Sigma Chi] will need more than a
touch up and paint up job,” Parsons
said. “But it’ll cost substantially less
than the $500,000 and $600,000 ex-
penses in Fraternity Renaissance.”

Parsons said the renovations may
not have to be done with concern for
durability, since fraternity men won't
be living in the house.

A “The administration won’t be rest- .
mg on the wash basins,” Parsons said.

“These things go on in fraternities——-
we have to nail [sinks] to the wall for
[fratemities].”

Parsons said the cost of renovations
will depend on whether Buildings and
Grounds can handle the magnitude of
the project. He said the money for the
renovations will come from allocations
in the Capital Projects budget, which
must be approved by the Board of
Tnrstees.

Howison said Associate Dean of
the College W. Lad Sessions is cur-

« rently living in the old Kappa Sigma

house on Washington Street, but the
house will become Outing Club head-
quarters by winter term. Next fall,

‘ NEWS

  juggles fraternity houses

Outing Club members will be able to
live there, in an arrangement similar to
that of the International House.

Parsons said the university is lim-
ited in its choices for the future of the
Sig Ep house because of its remoteness
from campus. He said it will either be
sold for residential use or renovated
for faculty apartments.

Howison said that it is unlikely that
W&L will spend much money on the
house and that it will probably be sold.

“Personally, I’d like to see some
entrepreneur make it into a bed-and-

breakfast,” Howison said.

When uses are found for Sigma Chi
and Sig Ep, the end of fraternity reno-
vations will be in sight. The only re-
maining unfrnished house is Delta Tau
Delta, which will begin renovation
within the month and should be fin-
ished by September 1993.

The Kappa Alpha house was sched-
uled to be open in September. KA
members should move in this January.
The new Sigma Chi and Sig Ep houses
are on schedule, and will be ready for
occupancy by the beginning of the next
school year, Parsons said.

Fraternity Renaissance began in the
spring of 1990 with renovations to
Sigma AlphaEpsilonand will end with
the completion of the Delt house in the
fall of 1993, Parsons said. He said the
14-house project cost W&L about $13
million.

:,-..,

Family ties

 

victory over-Sewanee.

  

Approximately 2,400 parents and
guests crowded onto the Washing-
.ton and Lee campus for last
' weekend's Parents Weekend tes-
tivitles. Above, families lunch and
socialize on the lawn Saturday at-

‘ ternoon. At right, excited W&L tans
cheer the Generals on to a 17-16

 

Photos by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

IIQIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllll-;

  

B
D

ST

 FUN ISER

 

9 up to $1.5!!! In just one week
sponsoring a marketing program
for a Fortune 5!!) Company.

NO‘ SALES
o _i NO INVESTMENT
o BUILD TEAM WORK
q , HAVE rum

   
 

  

    
 

   

ON CAMPUS!

Your student organization can earn

E
E
E
=
E
ti-"

 . . Oil Change, Filter, & Lube

    $15.95

Includes up to 5 quarts motor oil, new oil ﬁlter,
lube, check ﬂuid levels, belts and hoses,
tires guaged, and exhaust system checked.

' ‘ '  f j_No appointment necessary.

Tires, Exhaust work done.
Minor tune-up available from $26.

Rudell’s Service Center
 1 ‘_ I T. 207 N. Main
 (corner of Main and Massie)

‘ IllfllilﬂilﬂljllllllllillllililllﬁllllllllllIllllllllIﬂllllllllllmﬂﬂllIllllllllllllllIIIlll!'|IIlIlllllllllllllﬂllIlllllllllll?

    
  
  

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIllllIIIlllIllIllIllIIIIllIIIIIlllllIllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIlI|||||IllI|lII|I||l

  
  
 
 

130 S. Main St.

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.- Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 199

  

' Photo b Le Allen, The R/ng-tu Phi

Kappa Alpha members should be ready to move in by January.’

W&L doctors hope to prevent-
measles outbreak on campus_

. KA was scheduled to be completed in September.

By JEANNE BRIGGS

Phi Contributing Writer

A reported case of measles at Clinch Valley Community
College in southwest Virginia has prompted Washington
and Lee’s Student Health Services to make sure students

have gotten all their shots.

Dr. Jane Horton, director of the student health center,
said children receive measles vaccinations when they are 1
year old, but in 1989 the Advisory Committee on Immuni-
zation Practices, the American Academy of Pediatrics and
the American College Health Association reported that the

immunization wears off.

For this reason, Horton said doctors are now recom-
mending a second booster vaccination one month after the
initial vaccination. Current juniors and seniors were not
required to receive a second» vaccination upon entering
W&L, but freshmen and sophomores were.

Doctors at the health center are checking studentrecords
 for students who have not received the second vaccination,
Horton said. .. . . I i

When the health center discovers a student who has not
received the second immunization, a letter is sent home and
the student is asked to come in and receive the immuniza-
tion. Ifthe student is not properly immunized, he or she will

Phi Delt parents question punishmen

Ci From PHI DELT, page 1

left people with question marks. It was
a major disappointment that the house
corporation wasn’t there.”

Phi Delt parent Frank Surface said
he was pleased that Atkins and Howison
made the effort to talk to parents about
the situation, but said he still thought
the punishments were too harsh for the
crime.

“I thought it was a fair exchange of
ideas,” Surface said. “There was a lot
of discussion about severity. Parents
thought the punishment was not appro-
priate for the event, and that an entire
frat was punished for the act of maybe
a single person. ”

Howison said the Student Affairs
Committee, which voted to support the
house corporation’s original punish-
ment, would not have to approve any
revision in the sanctions.

463-7969

F

ADOPTION OPTION 1
Tim and Vicki wish to share our home with an infant.
We have college degrees; and we both work in education
Our hobbies are music, golf, and church activities.
If you wish to talk with us, please call
1-800-296-2367

it Read the Phi.

Do You Want VISA 8: MasterCard Credit Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and MasterCard®
credit (2rds.."ln your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VlSA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
ST ORES—TUITiON——ENT ERTAI NM ENT-
EMERGENCY O\SH—-'l‘lCKE'IS—RESTAURANl‘S—-
HO'I‘ELS—MOTEl.S—GAS-—CAR RENTALS-
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!‘

eumv|“‘°‘ .
‘encpﬂ No credit
“5el'V::$’;¢o  iio security deposit!
1
6% 5°.‘ Approval absolutely guaranteed so

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

effectiveness.

be prevented from registering for winter term.
Letters were sent home over the summer to all sttllenq
who had not received the immunization, but there are stil
some students who have not acted on that informatio.
according to Horton. ,
Horton said any student who is unsure if he has receive
the vaccination should visit the inﬁrrnary and discuss ht
immunization record with a doctor. Doctors are availab
weekdays from 8 to 10 a.m. and from 3 to 5:30 pm;
Measles is the most serious of common childhood d’
eases, according to an infomration sheet published by
health center. It causes a rash, high fever, cough, and
nose, and can result in pneumonia, ear infections or e
cephalitis, an inﬂammation of the brain. Although thou-
of as a childhood disease, measles also afﬂicts adults.
“It is much more serious than people think,” Hortog sa' ~
Horton said 14 cases of measles have been reported .
Virginia this year. Last year, there were 29 cases report _ I
The health center has vaccinated 15 students this ye '
Horton said that when a case of measles is reported 0
college campus,.the campus community must he quara
tined and all intramural sports canceled.
Horton also said any student can receivea vaccipati -
against inﬂuenza. The vaccine reduces chances of catchi
the flu and is administered in November for maximu

   
  
  
 
   
     
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
  

Freshman I
officers
elected

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Contributing Writer

The freshman class elected Da
Mahoney president in anrn-offtle
tion Oct. 22.

Mahoney defeated Matthe
Mazzucchi 179-158 with 16 studen
not voting. '

Mahoney said he hopes to ena
promises he rrrade during his carnpaig
“I plan for us to work together t
strengthen our class. Most of the cl ~
seems to be breaking up into fratemi
ties and other groups and I want to se
unity to create a community,” he sai -

Madeline White was elected clas
vice, president with 184 votes, co
pared to 157 for her opponent Prgstog
Miller. Twelve people did not vote.

‘ ‘I look forward to helping to rep -
sent my class and to being fair an
equitable in the Student Condu
Committee,”White said.

Peter Agelasto will be the freshmar
Executive Committee representotiv ~
Agelasto defeated Todd Bryan 171
165, with 17 students not voting. ‘

“I’m very excited to be elected,’
Agelasto said. “I think I’ll do a goo

job.’ ’

    

“I would support the house corpora-
tion and their right to take action,”
Howison said. “The only reason SAC
would act was if the status of Phi Delta
Theta at this campus was at stake. I
don’t think it is.”

Phi Delt Vice President Nick An-

 
 
   
   
   

thony said the meeting was beneﬁci
to the administration, the parents, .t
the fratemity. -

“I think the overall attitude of t.
house is changing,” Anthony said.
think we’ve realized our mistakfs - «
can go on from here.” ‘

 

Red Cross °

 
     

4

E,
-

 
   
 

 

 

' STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 17924. Pl.AilTAlI0ii.FL 3331-3 -"
I I
   twantvrsAo/MAs'rERcARDe Credit , :a
3 Cards. Enclosed llnd 85 which is 100% refundable if not I 5
3 approved immediately. I
I u
I NAME N
: ADDRESS . : '
: cmr STATE ..._ZIP _ I,
, PHONE   s.s.# 
I SIGNATURE   ' I»
' NOTE: Mastacnrd is I registered tndenark d Masteﬁhrd lntematloml. Inc l.
I Visa is a tegistetur tndennrk urvrsx usA. int: and visit tmemauonar g I
' 5""‘°=’ *"°°"“°'* - 100°/e GUARANTEED! I’
I

 

 

._€UBED  


..-ii

  

The Rlng-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

 

ANNIVERSARY SALE

  Harrisfeetr

 

q SELECTED
VARIETIES

 
 

U.S.D.A. CHOICE 

HILLSHIRE FARMS-LUNCHEON MEATS .  L»  ‘

 ."

EF I T“

 
  
 
     
    
 

LB.

- CALIFORNIA LARGE
BROCCOLI

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

  
  

REDUCED
PRICE

 

STUDENTS
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER
‘it COURTESY CARD.

HEIIISTBGIBI

YOUR, NAME
YOUR ADDRESS
YOUR CITY. STATE

x/x oi/oi/oi
1111111

 

gr ALLOWS YOU TO
CASH PERSONAL

I . CHECKS AT OVER 134 ,

r HARRIS TEETER
LOCATIONS IN

. GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

I‘ TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00
COUPON AND SAVE.

‘II

I

. VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON
" $1 00 OFF
I . 0 I
I I

ANY $3.00 OR MORE
PURCHASE IN OUR I

Ll.

. ‘I DELI-BAKEY DEPARTMENT I

| THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. |
t LIMIT ONE coupon PER. FAMILY PER VISIT
( I OFFER eooo ocr. 2a THRU NOV. 3, I992 I

'0 coupon DE” I
cl I-L‘l’J"E Ilarrisfeeiei I
PLU 2068

,L___________

I-IARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

VALUABLE HARRIS TEETER coupon
BUY ONE I6 OZ. PKG. OF LOUIS RICH
TURKEY FRAIIIKS

AT REGULAR PRICE AND GET ONE

 rRigis!

This Coupon May Not Be Re oduced. I.imit One
Cou ii Per Fomil , Per isit With Minimum
Purc se of $I0.0U. Offer tober 28,
Thru November 3, 1992.

CV PQEN 
R

L__________._..I

VAUABLE HARRIS TEETER COUPON
sur ONE 6 oz. BAG (SELECTED VARIETIES)
EAGLE CHI

AT REGULAR PRICE AND GET ONE

I-‘RE "I

» This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. Limit One
Cou n Per Fomi , Per Visit With Minimum

seoI$I0. . OIterGoodOctober 28,
Thru Nvr 3, I992.

IE. IE’

PLU 21 24
MEAT

Purc

   
  

PLU 2087
GROCERY E

c°k’  Ettltllll I :91 I
'
L — j Z : 2 2 _ 2 2 2 2 J

VALUABLE HARRIS TEETER COUPON
suv our ROLL $8.7 so. FTEOF DELTA

PAPE TOW LS

AT REGULAR PRICE AND GET ONE

FREE.’

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. limit One

Coupon Per Famga, Per Visit With Minimum

Purc use of $I0. . Offer Good October 28,
Thru November 3, I992.

1
_,<
#

I.-.4

PLU 2091

3720
NFS GROCERY E

cou N I‘
VAL E I
ﬂ Iiarrisfeeier

L___________.I

; .Pri'ces Effective Throug

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday October 28 Through

h November 3, I992

esdo

, November 3, J 992. In Lexington Stomc

. OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None $oId To eaiers. We GIod:/ Accept IGULI ... I \. ...— stomps

 

PAGE 1

5

PhotobyJamoaonT II " ,nnnng-rum" nu‘

Wilson Moore prepares to make like Superman and leap a pile or players on his way to another nloo
gain. Moore finished with 52 yards rushing and scord both of W&L’: TDS. I

W&L wins a squeaker, 17-16

Ci From SHOCKER, page 8 ,

stopping Cravens when they had to, and it eventually paid
off.

With a little more than nine minutes left in this battle
Sewanee faced a second and 14 as a result of a holding
penalty. Young ’s replacement, Robbie Lyle tried to get it all
in one play and Newman makes him pay.

Newman stepped in front of the intended receiver and
picked off it off. He returned the ball to the Tigers’ 40.

The Generals got the big break they needed and with 9:07
left, and down by one, they had a shot at a major upset.

At this point, Fallon still wanted the seven points.

“I only go for the ﬁeld goal when faced with it and that’s
all we got left.” _

On the first two plays, Moore picked up 14 and put the
Generals at the Tigers’ 25. Steiner hit Hodges for four, then
Moore for four. On third and two, Mason tries to go over left
side but is dropped just about a half-a-yard short.

Fallon called on freshman Drew Thomas to try a 34-yard
ﬁeld goal. By now, most of the 5,680 spectators were on
their feet.

Sewanee called a timeout to try and “ice" Thomas.

Finally, the teams lined up for the kick. Thomas had
already had one kick blocked late in the first half, this was
for the lead.

The ball was snapped, Steiner set it and Thomas kicked

it.

A Sewanee defender came flying in from the right side
and got hisftngertips on the ball,'but to no’ avail. V E

The ball sailed through the uprights and the Generals led
17-16. ‘

There was still six minutes to go, though, and Fallon 1
knew it. Lyle led the Tigers to the Generals’ 20 and that's
where W&L held.

  

  
 
  

  

  

BUY ONE PIZZA

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

Call Us
and Keep

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////g ooaamw R,_w_“¢¢.

/ ¢ HEATWAVE VACATIONS
g SPRING BREAK I993

‘ ~ _ g 'I‘he best rates at the biggest
O Q coinmissions. For more liifuniuton,
g Call800-395-WAVE
/ .
c ‘ /
. Ladiesv Shoes, Clothing 3 391353 Fgpzpaigqr.
and Accessories g 7M,”°",.,l,,.,g,°°'.“ol; 91:”. .3?‘
03 463-5988 / Remode ‘in _ . VII
% f_3e::;,g$:_  24450 (7 I g Now and in Spring! No pets

ﬂ

Crammin g.

On three plays, the Tigers gained ﬁve yards. Thatbrought
on another freshman place kicker, Jon Knowles. to give the
lead back to Sewanee.

Fallon said his ﬁnal thoughts before the kick were of
something he said to assistant coach Jeff Stickley.

V“I was walking by Sticltley and said ‘Damn, I’d hate to
lose this way’.”

The clock continued to run and it was now under a
minute. ' ‘

Knowles lined up the 37-yarder. Fifty seconds to go.

The center snappedthebalmheholderplacedit. Knowles
kicked it. ' ‘

It stayed in the air for an eternity. It sailed towards the
uprights, and sailed past them, wide to the right. By about a
foot.

Somewhere, somehow, Scott Norwood was empnthizing
with Knowles.

The Generals’ sidelines went crazy, joined in unison by
the crowd. The most exciting game in years came to a
fantastic finish.

Steiner and Mason led the Generals’ offense. Steiner
finished the day 15-for-22 for 117 yards and one TD.
Mason’s numbers were 97 yards on 19 carries.

The one mind-boggling stat was registered by Sewanee’:
star back. Carl Cravens was involved in 43 of Sewanee‘s6'I
offensive plays, and accounted for 213 of their 291 total
yards. After the game his father said he was whipped and
totally exhausted.

Now the Generals move on to take on Bridgewnter. a
team W&L has not beaten the Eagles since 1988. A fact
Coach Fallon is well aware of.

“Not a kid on this team has ever beaten Bridgewater.
They've thrashedusharderphysicallyaridonthesooreboard
more than any other ODAC team. 7

“We’re tired of losing to them."

  

      

1 .W'il tenns.
W war

TYLIST

Form at Mariano‘:

GREEKS 8t CLUBS

RAISEA COOL
‘I000.

IN JUSTONEWEEKI
PLUS‘lII)0FOR'l'HE
MEMBERWHOCALLS!
Noobligation. Nocost.
YouaIsogetnFREE
HEADPKONERADIO

I-um-It-s
1-soo.932.os2a,iixtss J

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings,
delivered hot and fast to your door.

ﬂ%

-Hut.

Have
a safe

Pizza Hut Delivery . . . Great taste delivered!
© 1989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS OR DISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY

Umihdddvsryaroa

Student Special

and happy
Halloween.

.l

Lambda Chi/
Lexington Police

Annual
Haunted House

WITH COLLEGE ID

: Call: 463-7000

I offer expires 12-18-92

I
I
I
E 2 pizzas for the price of 1
I
I
I

%

~IIut.

7-9 p.m.
225 E. Nelson St.

6 1989 Pizza Hut. Inc. Our drivers carry no more than 320.

1/20 cent cash rodenptton value.

K Stﬂygianu W p.

 

 

Last Week:

Football- W&L 17,Sewanee 16 (4-2)
MSoc- W&L 3, H-SC 0 (7-7)
WSoc- W&L 4,Hollins 0 (5-10)

VB- Hollins 3,W&L 2 (13-13)

CC- (W) 1st at W&L Invit.
CC-(M) 2nd at W&L Invit.

PAGE 8

S

Ellie iﬁing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

 

” This Week

Football- at Bridgewater 10/31

WP- Southern Champs. at H-SC 10/31-1
MSoc- at Va. Wesleyan vs. R-MC 10/30
WSoc- at Ashland vs. R-MC 10/30

CC- (W) at EMC; (M) at H-SC & EMC

K

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

OCTOBER 29, 1992

Men’s soccer 1
reaches semis

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men's
soccer team advanced to the senii-ﬁ-
nals of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference with a 3-0 blanking of
Hampden-Sydney College Tuesday.

The Generals will face Randolph-
Macon College on Friday as the ODAC
Final Four travel to the campus of host
Virginia Wesleyan.

Senior Michael Hill scored the first
goal, which was all the Generals
needed.

Senior Reid Murphy scored twice,
giving him eight on the season.

Murphy, atri-captain, has scored 30
goals in his career, which places him
among the top goal-scorers in W&L
history. In the three game winning
streak, Murphy has scored ﬁve goals
and assisted on three. The Generals’
career goals record is 38, set by Scott
Fechany (1965-68).

Washington and Lee lost to
Randolph-Macon in their first meeting
this season, 1-0. The Yellow Jackets
have one of the premier goaltenders in
the conference, Rick Wilcox.

However, W&L has scored an un-
believable 20 goals in their past three
games. The team had only produced 14
goals in their first 11 games while
allowing 20.

But they annihilated Bridgewater
9-0 and Lynchburg 8-0 in consecutive
contests.

“We’re just pulling it all together,"
said junior Dan Rhodes. “[Bridgewater
and Lynchburg] weren't top teams, but
we've been moving the ball around

real well.”

Bridgewater was fielding its ﬁrst
intercollegiate soccer team since 1942.
As for Lynchburg, who W&L outshot
42-2, the Hornets’ coach resigned last
week and several of their key players
missed the game with a suspension.

Generals assistant coach John Bur-
gess said they handled Harnpden-
Sydney fairly easily.

“We seem to match up against them
well,” said Burgess.

The game was the second time in
which the Generals shutout H-SC on
the road. They beat the Tigers 2-0 three
weeks ago.

“We deﬁnitely played real well, but
not great,” Burgess said. “We still
haven't hit our peak.”

Burgess said he and head coach
Rolf Pirariian feel that the team has yet
to play up to its potential, but anything
can happen in the playoffs.

Rhodes believes the team hasasolid
chance against Randolph-Macon.

“I’d much rather face [R-MC] than
Virginia Wesleyan," he said. Va.
Wesleyan has knocked the Generals
out of the ODAC Tournament the past
two years.

"They're real good,” said senior
Mike Mitchem, “but our confidence is
really high right now. We’ll give them
a game.”

Mitchem, a senior tri-captain, is
one assist short of tying the W&L ca-
reer assist record. He recorded his 21st
against Harnpden-Sydney.

Burgess said that in the tournament
anything can happen.

“[On winning the title] We have to
get there first, but in the playoffs who
knows what can happen.”

Women advance to next
round in ODAC tourney

By Jusrm MCNAUL1.
Phi Staff Writer

The Generals were solid gold in
Tuesday’ s Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference quarterfinal, defeating
Lynchburg 4-0, earning a date with
regular-season champion Randolph-
Macon College.

R-MC enters Friday’s game in
Ashland, Va. with a 14-2 record, hav-
ing defeated the Generals 3-1 in Sep-
tember. The fourth-seeded Generals’
10 losses are the most in their ﬁve-year
history.

Head coach Jan Hathom thinks the
Generals (5-10) have arealistic chance
to win the ODAC tournament.

“We're as good as Randolph-Ma-
con, we just need to prove it,” she said.

Tuesday’s drubbing of Lynchburg,
coupled with a strong second-half rally
in Satiirday’s4-2loss to regional power
Messiah, supports Hatliom’s conﬁ-
dence in the team.

The defense has been strong all sea-
son while the offense has sputtered,
scoringonlyninetimesinit’slast twelve
games.

Junior Aspen Yawars opened the
scoring with a goal on a free kick from
more than 30 yards out.

Yawars’ first goal of the season was
the early goal the Generals have lacked
all season long.

"The early goal was the difference,
so that we just played and we didn’t
worry,” said Hathom.

Sophomore Anne Spniill caught fire

in the second half.

Spniill sparked the rout with her
third goal of the season, opening a 2-0
lead. ‘

, Spruill chipped in her second goal
from six yards out, it was 3-0.

Sophomore Jenny Lynch completed
the scoring with two minutes left in the
game. it

Junior Kate Stimeling notched her
second shutout in three games, aided
by junior Allison Lewis’s strong play

* at sweeper.

The Generals knew they were im-
proving after the second half of their
game against Messiah.

After spotting Messiah a three-goal
lead, the Generals picked up the tempo
and played much of the second half.

Junior Angie Cairington made the

score 3-1 on a penalty kick. She also ,

added the Generals second goal a few
minutes later.

Carrington leads the Generals ’ scor-
ers with ﬁve goals.

The goal closed the gap to 3-2, but
W&L couldn’t muster a tie the game
and Messiah scored with two minutes
remaining.

But the Generals couldn’t come any
closer, and lost a tough one, 3-2.

The second half electiiﬁed the Far-
ents Weekend crowd and excited
Hathom.

“Even an hour after the game, I felt
like we had won,” she said. “I don’t
know if the kids understand the magni-
tude of what we did.”

Tuesday’s win shows they did.

w

By SEAN O’RoURKE
Phi Sports Editor

The Generals’ football game
against the University of the South
epitomized the way football should
be played.

Football purists were in their
glory after Saturday's game. It had
everything a great game is supposed
to have: big offensive plays, great
defense, few mistakes and its out-
come was decided in the ﬁnal minute
of play.

Both teams played at such a high
level that the W&L faithful didn’t
do their usual halftime split. Now
you know the game had to be good.

Sewanee was 5-0 entering the
contest and had an offense which
featured a nationally-ranked quar-
terback and running back. Russ
Young was in the top 10 in comple-
tion efﬁciency; Carl Cravens was
among the nation’s leaders with an
average of 130 yards rushing per
game.

The Generals’ defense would be
under the gun from the get-go, and
they responded with big-time play.

Sewanee opened the game at their
own 30 and Young gave the Gener-
als a preview of what they might
face the entire afternoon on the ﬁrst
play.

Young rolled to his right and let
go, on the full run, with a forty-yard
bomb down the right side.

W&L freshman corner back
Graig Fantuzzi had a better beat on
the ball than the receiver, and was
able to knock it down.

Head coach Gary Fallon said
the secondary played an excellent
game and the difference was in the

team’s nhilosonhv._
“They were going to the foot-

ball,” said Fallon. “Before we’d let
teams have completions in front of
us and then we’d hit them.

“This time we played aggressive
and got some good knock downs.”

On the second play of the game,
Young overthrew his intended re-
ceiver and that set-up third and 10.

The Tigers then looked to their
main offensive weapon, Cravens.
He took an inside hand—off and raced
up the middle for a pick-up of 15
and a first down. The Tigers would
be successful on all three third downs
they faced on this drive.

Sewanee moved down the ﬁeld
on the strength of Cravens’ nmning,
and a big 16-yard completion from
Young to James Spriggs at the Gen-
erals’ four. Cravensscored a sweep
to the left on the next play.

The Generals started their ﬁrst
drivefrom their own 35, and it would
set the tone for the rest of the after-
noon.

The Generals marched down the
ﬁeld by mixing in run and pass, and
they took what Sewanee’s defense
would give them.

The Generals also had great suc-
cess on third down. Geren Steiner
hit Tommy Mason for seven on a
third and ﬁve; on third and one,
Steiner picked up two; on third and
three, Steiner hit Bob Ehret, who
made a great leaping catch, for 10;
on the fourth third down, Steiner
completed a 10-yarder to Hayne

Hodges which set up a ﬁrst and

Volleyball readies for ODACs

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

The dank lights of the Warner Cen-
ter afforded the Washington and Lee
volleyball team little solace as they left
the court, dejected, after a tough ﬁve-
game loss to Hollins College.

The loss in their ﬁnal regular-sea-
son contest, took some of the luster off
an outstanding year for the volleyball
team, but not much."

A less talented Hollins team simply
managed to hold on throughout the
match, then capitalize on W&L mis-
takes when they presented themselves.

W&L won the first game easily,
perhaps too easily, 15-4. The Generals
suffered a big blow early in the game.
Sophomore stand-outJenriiferGarrigus
injured her ankle during the third point
of the match. Her loss would prove
costly later in the match.

The second game was a little more
difﬁcult, as Hollins seemed to get into
a grove. The Generals prevailed,
though, 15-10.

From the second game on, Hollins
seemed to do just enough to keep the
ball in play, and managed to score
points despite some solid play from the
Generals.

The third game was along and ago-
nizing one as W&L lost its edge com-
pletely and fell into lackluster play.
The Generals staked themselves to a
13-8 lead before the roof caved in.

 

W&L failed to score another point,
losing the game 15-13.

From that point on, the Generals
seemed lost, and although Hollins did
raise its level of play a notch, they still
were well below the Generals at their
best.

Hollins somehow eeked out a 15- 1 2

win in the fourth game of the match."

The low point of the match was game
ﬁve, when Hollins finished off the
Generals 15-8.

Unfortunately, this match was not
the ﬁtting end to the excellent season
the team had.

, With an overall record of 13-13, 4-
5 in Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence play, the Generals are a vastly
improved team.

In fact, with a good showing at the
ODAC Tournament, which begins ﬁrst
round play Nov. 3, the Generals could
finish with the second winning season
in the team’s ﬁve-year history.

Appropriately enough, freshmen
Chrissie Hart and Cheryl Taurassi led
the team against Hollins with 14 kills
and 20 assists respectively.

Hart ﬁnished atop the statistical
heap for the season with 184 kills and
60 block points. While Taurassi fin-
ished with an outstanding 402 assists.

Garrigus, who will return to the
line-up for the ODAC Tournament,

3 led the team in aces with 37, and racked

up 249 digs, the second highest total on
the team.

Senior co-captain Leslie Hess led
the team with 287 digs, and also com-
piled 177 kills. The senior from Hous-
ton, will try to lead the team the Gener-
als to their ﬁrst ever ODAC title, and in
this season of firsts, one never knows.

The one major aspect the team needs
to work on is playing at its highest
level, for an entire game, no matter
what the competition.

Head coach Kristi Yarter said this is
what will make the Generals competi-
tive with the top teams.

“We're competitive with everyone
in our conference,” Yarter said. “We
played Guilford, who, to my knowl-
edge, is the best team in the league, to
ﬁve games. If that’s the case, the lower
teams of the ODAC shouldn’t even be
any competition.”

W&L will get a bye in the ﬁrst
round of play. They will open in the
second round against an unspeciﬁed
team on Nov. 6.

  

   

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Hing—tum Phi

Generalsshock Sewanee

Generals upset the fourth ranked team in the South

Sewanee quarterback Bobble Lyle looks on as W&L’s free safety Marc Newman brings Carl
Cravens down In the open field. Cravens was the offensive star of the game, whlle Newmavl
sparkled on the defensive side. Newman earned ODAC Defenslve Player of the Week honors for his

performance on Saturday.

goal.

On the Generals’ fifth straight third
down, Wilson Moore plowed over the
right side for three and a touchdown.

The drive took 16 plays, it con-
sumed more than eight minutes and
probably most important of all, Steiner
was 7-for-7 for 47 yards.

Fallon said the quick start by Steiner
is exactly what the team’s needed.

‘‘I talked to Geren about getting off
to a better start. I told him you don’t get
many chances in the ﬁrst quarter or
half.”

On Sewanee’s next series, the de-
fensive star for the Generals made his
mark.

Free safety Marc Newman would
have his best day as a General with 16
tackles, one interception and three pass
break-ups. His efforts earned him Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Defen-
sive Player of the Week, the second
straight week a General has won that
honor.

“The secondary felt real solid on
Saturday,” said Newman. “We mixed
it up more and played real aggressive."

On the second play of Sewanee’s
second drive, the Tigers’ starting QB,
Young, broke his arm. He would finish
the drive, but not return the rest of the
way.

That left Cravens as the only real
threat for the Generals’ defense. Even

  

with that knowledge, Cravens had a
career day.

On the Tigers second possession of
the second quarter, Cravens handled
the ball seven times on 10 plays and
accounted for 33 yards.

Cravens capped the drive by bowl-
ing over one of the Generals’ comers
for a three-yard touchdown.

Like the ﬁrst quarter, W&L would
respond on the very next drive.

This time, it was Michael
MacLane’s replacement, Tommy Ma-
son, who led the offense. Mason car-
ried ﬁve times for 54 yards, and it was

his 35-yard dash down the right side

that set up the Generals’ second touch-
down.

On second and goal from Sewanee’s
four, Steiner found Moore on a screen
and Moore just carried 21 Tigers line-
backer into the end zone for his second
touchdown of the half.

The TD tied the game at 14 and
would be the last one for either team
the rest of the game.

Fallon said the offense worked all
week at keeping the ball for long peri-
ods of time.

“Our whole thinking was that their
offense was their strong point. But if
they're on the bench, they can’t do
much.

“We wanted to keep the ball but we
also wanted points, not ﬁeld position."

The final 30 minutes was domi-
nated by the defenses, and
Sewanee’s struck ﬁrst.

For the entire third quarter 11;
Generals were pinned in their own
end. They never made it past their
own 24.

W&L started their third drive of
the quarter at their own one-yard
line. Moore got them two on a run
up the middle, then Mason tried 3
get more on the left side. He wish s
he hadn’t.

Mason got stood up by three
Tigers but wouldn’t go down. As
Mason was trying to spin out of
trouble a fourth Tiger popped him

in the back and knocked the ball,

free. The Generals recovered, but i
the end zone resulting in a free two
points. ’ ' '

The shot Mason took was so ‘

hard that the ball ﬂew ten yards in
the air and ten yards backwards.
Mason didn’t miss a step, though.
He returned for W&L’s next serie9.

The score would remain 16-14
for the rest of the third and most of
the fourth. Sewanee counted on their
big horse, Cravens, to rim out much
of the time.

W&L did an excellent job o.f

Cl See SHSOCKER, page 7

)’

Where is everybody?

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  

 
  

 
 

  

  

 
  
 
 
  

  

  

 
  

  
   
   

  
 

 

   
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 

 

Freshman phenom, Josephine Schaelfer enters the home-stretch all by her lonesome. This Is a '
famlllar slght for the W&L womenfs cross country team. This Is her vlctory at the W&L lnvitatlonal
on the weekend. Her time of 18:14 Is another course record. Schaeffer, Amy Mears and Teresﬁ
Lamey led W&L to the ovemhelmlng victory on Saturday.

 
   
 
  
   

  

   
  

  U112 iiirtg-tum Iﬂlti

1992 Election Supplement

1992 Presidential Election

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia 24450 October 29, 1992

Tom Fik a Rss Perot

Students B aclidates,
Presidential Debates To W&L

By RICHARD PBLTZ
Phi Executive Editor

mid the tavem-red glow and wood finishes of the
Generals Headquarters, five presidential contenders
took to the stage Wednesday night, jabbing, stabbing
and jumping each other to garner the popular vote.
Democrat Bill Clinton, played by junior Cottie
Miles, swept the mock debate, win-
ning over the audience of about 65
in a poll of applause, whistles and
yells.
But runner-up Republican
George Bush, played by Andrew
Schneider, stole the show in terms
of laughter with his squeaky, shaky

voice and exaggerated gestures to ,

imitate the president.

“Maybe the Soviet bear is
gone,” Schneider/Bush said, “but
there are many wolves out there.
Watch out!”

Third parties made a strong
showing with freshman Tom Fink

as independent Ross Perot, senior_

Richard Hill as Libertarian Andre
Marrou and senior Cameron
Humphries as Howard Phillips for
the U.S. Taxpayers Party.
The candidates answered
questions posed by moderator Dean of Students David Howison on a
range of topics, from abortion and the economy to drugs and national
defense.

Miles imitated Clinton’s down-home style in an MTV, “Rock the
Vote”-style presentation. He walked with the microphone and ad-
dressed the crowd on a personal level, as “students who are worried
about their future.”

“Is it right, a man who works every day, who slaves, can’t afford
health care?” Miles/Clinton asked. “‘Let’s let them die”’ is the Repub-
lican response, he said.

Schneider/Bush accused his Democratic opponent of being “Gover-
nor Gloom ‘n’ Doom.”

“He says he’s gonna tax the rich,” Schneider said. “But I tell ya,
watch your wallet!”

Miles presented a Democratic platform that included a national

health care system, pro-choice legislation, increased employment through
a better education system and education on drugs rather than interdic-
tron.

But Clinton’s alleged use of marijuana and anti-Viemam war activi-
ties were an ever—present issue.

“Andre [Marrou] says we should legalize drugs ‘cause it’s fun,”
Schneider said. “Well I don’t think it would benefit Governor Clinton,
because he didn’t inhale.”

“I might have smoked marijuana in England,” Miles came back.
“And I might have enjoyed it, too. But that’s past me now.”

Schneider presented a Republican platform of a tax credit to the poor
for medical care, maintaining the national defense and pro-life legisla-
tron.

“Who can you trust?” was the Republican theme.

Hill as Andre Marrou had his moment in the spotlight when Howison
asked about his party’s plank to legalize drugs.

Imagine, Hill/Marrou said: “The entire country gets high and is nice
to each other.”

He said drug-control laws were first enacted as prejudice against
opium-using Asians in the West.

“Victimless crimes like drugs should be made legal,” Hill said.

Hill attacked Bush, Clinton and Perot as, respectively, “the right-
wing socialist,” “the left—wing socialist” and “the fascist socialist.”

“‘Give me your money, and I’ll do nothing,”’ say the Republicans,
according to Hill. And the Democrats say, “‘Give me your money and
let us solve your problems.”

“Libertarians believe you can have your money and solve your own
problems,” he said. Libertarians would eliminate the income tax and
reduce government by 90 percent, he said.

Libertarians also advocate national defense only for U.S. land.

“We’ve got cool stuff,” Hill said of U.S. military technology, like the
“Uranium P-32 Space Modulator.” But “Germany and Japan can afford
to defend themselves,” he said.

Humphries, playing the lesser known Howard Phillips, turned heads
when he addressed the national-defense issue.

“The Red Army is still alive,” Humphries/Phillips said. “They ’ve got
enough grain in storage to feed their people for  years.”

The U.S. Taxpayers platform also advocated the elimination of the
income tax.

Fink loyally portrayed billionaire Ross Perot, minus the east-Texas
twang, delivering such familiar Perot-isms as “I didn’t create this
problem; I’m here to solve it" and “There are plans lying all over
Washington.”

“You’ve got a headache this big,” Fink stretched out his arms, “and
it’s got your future written all over it. Two little, yellow Nuprins are not
going to solve your problem. And that’s how you might characterize our

government: little and yellow.”

Fink/Perot and Hill/Marrou followed
Miles/Clinton and Schneider/Bush in
audience approval, with Humphries/
Phillips receiving a good-natured mur-
mur.

Among the spectators at the GHQ
was the wife of Democrat Steve
Musselwhite, the congressional con-
tender from Virginia’s Sixth District.

“It was more entertaining than TV,”
she said. _

Senior Meredith Gronroos said she
hoped the debate would help her place
her vote, but she only left the debate

more confused than when she came.

“Bill Clinton was the best dressed,”
Gronroos said. “And little Ross Perot
was adorable. But they didn’t help me
decide. There are too many choices.”

Schneider’s effective performance
as Bush gave some audience members
a sweet surprise. .

As founder of the W&L chapter of
the American Civil Liberties Union,
Schneider’s casting had invoked some
doubters. But out of character,
Schneider took the irony in stride.

“Maybe the conservative campus is
having an effect on me," he said. “But
it’s all in fun. Sorry, Dad.”

Phi Staff Writer Craig Burke reported

Photos by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Pill‘ for this article.

Richard Hill as”dAndre Marrou

Cameron Humphries as Howard Phillips

.3"

Cottie Miles as Bill Clinton

Andrew Schneider as George Bush

 

 
 
 

George Bush

BIOGRAPHY. Born June 12, 1924, in Milton, Mass. Bachelor's degree in
economics, Yale, 1948. Wife Barbara; children George, Jeb, Neil, Marvin and
Dorothy; twelve grandchildren. Served in Navy, 1942-45, ﬂew 58 combat mis-
sions in the Pacific during World war ii. Shot down while attacking Japanese radio
installation at Chichi Jima and rescued by a U.S. submarine; awarded Distin-
guished Flying Cross and three Air Medals. Episcopalian.

ON THE ISSUES. osupports outlawing abortion except it the mother's life would
be endangered by carrying the baby to term, or in cases of rape or incest. owants
to idemify felons buying guns, regardless of whether the identification system
includes waiting period or point-of-sale system. osupports limiting House mem-
bers to six terms and senators to two. owants a tax-credit for small businesses
to encourage them to grant family medical leave. owants to lower capital gains
tax to 15.4 percent. r:>Calls for across-the-board tax cuts offset by decreased

government spending. t>Proposes reducing defense spending an additional $50 billion over the next five years.
r:>Proposes to save $294 billion over five years by capping all entitlement spending except Social Security. osupports
giving Iow- and middle-income families $1,000 scholarships that parents may apply to the school of their choice, public M
or private. c>Agrees with military policy prohibiting homosexualsfrom serving in the armed forces. osupports the death

penalty “for the most horrible crimes." c>Running mate: Dan Quayle

    

00
00 ‘

Hawaii

 

 

Projections based on Phi
analysis of recent polls
oonduaed by ‘Fme, The
NewYorkTrmes,CBSand
The Associated Press.

Bill Clinton

BIOGRAPHY. Born Aug. 19, 1946, in Hope, Ark. Bachelor's degree from
Georgetown School of Foreign Service, 1968. Rhodes Scholar at Oxford Univer-
sity, 1968-70. Law degree from Yale, 1973. Wife Hillary; daughter Chelsea. 1 1.
No military service. Baptist.

ON THE ISSUES. oopposes outlawing abortion; supports Roe v. Wade and the
Freedom of Choice Act. c>Supports the Brady Bill, which calls for a brief waiting
period for gun purchases. owants to limit campaign spending by revising
campaign financing laws before considering term limits in Congress. owould
require companies to give unpaid time off for family medical leave when there
is a newborn child or sick family member at home. owould not cut capital gains
tax “forthe rich,” but would exclude halfthe profitsfrom original investments in new
firms from taxes, “so long as the investment is held at leasttive years." :>Proposes
increasing taxes for those making $200,000 or more annually, but cutting taxes
for Iow- and middle-income wage-earners. r>Proposes cutting defense spending l:
than what he says Bush proposes to cut. oProposes a national health system to
Medicare and Medicaid, allowing those costs ‘to rise no fasterthan wages." osupi
not want to allow public money to go to private schools. :>Supports repealing the
forces. osupporls extending the death penalty to “other heinous crimes." c>Rui

 

Projections based on Phi
analysis of recent polls
concluded by ‘Time, The
NewYorkTlmes,CBSand
The Associated Press.

I

in Hope, Ark. Bachelor's degree from
, 1968. Rhodes Scholar at Oxford Univer-
973. Wife Hillary; daughter Chelsea, 11.

l abortion; supports Roe v. Wade and the
9 Brady Bill, which calls for a brief waiting
0 limit campaign spending by revising
iering term limits in Congress. owould
off for family medical leave when there
er at home. owould not cut capital gains
he profits from original investments in new
rent is held at leastfive years." oProposes
0,000 or more annually, but cutting taxes
rs. :>Proposes cutting defense spending by $50 billion more, or5 percent more,
it. oProposes a national health system to control entitlement costs, including
costs ‘to rise no fasterthan wages." osupports public—school choice, but does

private schools. osupports repealing the ban on homosexuals in the armed
I penalty to “other heinous crimes." :>Runnlng mate: Albert Gore Jr.

 

timeless;
Stote Election
Results

-o

(D) Bill Clinton

Toss-=U[o

Projected Electoral Vote Totals:
(270 Needed to Win)

Bush

Clinton

 

Toss-Up

 

Ross Perot

BIOGRAPHY. Born June 27, 1930, in Texarkana, Texas. United States Naval
Academy, class of 1953. Class president and battalion commander. Wife Margot;
children Ross Jr., Nancy, Suzanne, Carolyn and Katherine; six grandchildren.
Served in the Navy, 1953-57, on the U.S.S. Sigoumey and the aircraft carrier
Leyte in the Pacific and Europe. Presbyterian.

ON THE ISSUES. osupports a woman's choice to have an abortion. oopposes
the Brady Bill, which imposes a waiting period for gun buying, because it is only
"a timid step in the right direction." osupportstenn limits in Congress. oProposes
a stair-stepped capital gains tax, decreasing over five years, on shares pur-
chased from public companies. osupports a tax increase on individuals making
over $55,000 and joint-filers making over $89,250. oProposes to cut defense by
$40 billion more than what he says Bush will cut in the next five years. c>Proposes
to lift the cap that allows “betteroff Americans [to] stop paying Medicare taxes"
at a certain level; raise premiums on the Medicare supplemental insurance program; have retirees who can afford it
pay taxes on Social Security benefits; and reduce the cost of living for federal-government retirees. r>Supports a
parent's choice of schools, public or private. :>Says homosexuals sewing in the armed forces is not “realistic."
::>Supports the death penalty.oRunnlng mate: James Stockdale. A

— candidate information from The Associated Press; caricatures by Jeb Tilly, The Ring-tum Phi

 

.

