I

THE Lil\él‘./l*_~{~liIlTY' LIBFIARY

‘yvAsHtN‘<,:t'0N 3.

LEXENGTON, VA 24450 —

mmztn “

LEE UNIVERSITY

‘.
1.

Spiders and Rats, Oh My!
Becca Opens Tonight

All American
Marilyn Baker Becomes W&L’s First

Woman Tennis All-American

0

Ultra ‘tlttng-tum [ﬂirt

VOLUME 92, NO. 27

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 20, 1993

English Prof’s contract not renewed

By SARAH GILBERT
4 Phi Staff Writer

English Department members voted not to
renew the contract of Assistant Professor
Demaree Peck last week.

Peck’s review, a standard step in the process
oﬁecuring tenure-track professors, came after
her third year of teaching at Washington and
Lee, The decision is subject to the approval of
Dean of the College John Elrod. The eight
tenured English professors extensively exarn-
ined a ﬁle of materials prepared by Peck to
demonstrate her conformity to the guidelines
segforth in the faculty handbook.

Materials considered by the English depart-
ment included Peck’s published work, her un-
finished manuscripts, teacher evaluations re-
turned by the students who took her classes
during the past academic year, open letters
which were solicited from her students, evalu-
ations by the members of the department who
each sat in on one of her classes, and miscella-
neous ‘information such as her requests for
grants and plans for summer research.

Peck said that she was surprised and disap-
pointed about the decision.

“I read my teacher evaluations and they .

werevery strong,” she said. ‘‘I think I have a
strong teaching record.”
But other professors in the department de-

cided to the contrary.

“There was a consensus on what we were
observing and how we were observing it,” said
Department Head Edwin Craun, who cited con-
fidentiality and refused to reveal the speciﬁc
reasons for the department’s decision.

“[Students] are not privy to know the rea-
sons for personnel decisions, but [students] are
privy to know the values which are included in
arriving at those decisions,” he said.

University policy identifies three qualities
of the ideal candidate for reappointment or
promotion: teaching effectiveness, intellectual
activity and achievement, and academic citi-
zenship. Each of these categories is qualified by
five or six definitive considerations to assist

Two guilty

department members in their decisions.

Craun also noted that.it was impossible to
determine the exact motivations for an
individual’s ﬁnal judgment after a series of
group discussions.

“There isn’t necessarily a consensus, there
is just a vote,” he said.

Elrod has been provided _witl1 all of the
review materials and the recommendation of
the English department.

“I haven’t communicated yet with Miss
Peck,” said Elrod. He did not comment on the
decision he planned to make.

With the decision following so close on the
heels of the department’s decision not to renew
the contract of English professor John Lynch,

who is finishing his final term at W&L, many
students voiced concerns that the department’s
decision was based on factors other than those
in the faculty handbook.

“It’s bullshit that this department is firing
people who don’t agree with the ‘good-ole-
boy’ system,” said freshman English major
John Branam. “Lynch and Peck offered an
opportunity for [the department] to renew it-
self.”

Senior English major Shannon Comer, one
of Peck’s students, said that she could not guess
the motivations for the decisions because of the
University’s confidentiality policy.

CI See PECK, Page 6

Beta gets fall term

of HVs
this year

By THOMAS Hraspos
Phi News Editor

‘Two Washington and Lee students
were found guilty of honor violations
this year, as opposed to five last year.

“Last year was a big year,” said Ex-
ecutive Committee President Josh
MacFarland. 1 “[The "number of guilty I
verdicts] is usually about two or three or
f .17

('aHMacFarland said the EC performed
approximately 12 investigations of pos-
sible violations of the Honor System this
past year, which is down from 25 last
year. ,

- MacFarland said the alleged viola-
tions were reported by “an even mix of
stﬂdents and faculty members.”

Community members did not report
anypotential violations, said MacFarland.
None of the alleged violations reported to
the EC dealt with dishonorable conduct,
other than lying, cheating or stealing.

“Most of it has fallen under the gen-
eral heading of lying, cheating or steal-
ing,” said MacFarland.

The EC did not hear any cases regard-

social

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

Beta Theta Pi will participate
in all rush activities but will be
on social probation until January
1994.

The Student Affairs Commit-
tee voted unanimously to sup-
port the actions taken by Beta’s
House Corporation during
Alumni Weekend. 

Beta’s house corporation
placed the fraternity on social
probation for all of fall term, ex-
cept the two weeks prior to for-
mal rush. Interfraternity Council
President Curt Smith said during
rush Beta will be treated exactly
like the other fraternities.

Beta Chapter Advisor Farris

- Hotchkiss said one Beta was ex-
pelled from the fraternity, one
was suspended and one was put
on critical probation. Hotchkiss
saidthe fratemitymemberplaced
on critical probation was not in-
volved in the bottle throwing in-
cident on Beta ’s back porch on to
Red Square April 24.

The Beta suspended was an

Photo By Darran Winslow, The Fling-tum Phi

Catch it while you can

Professor Lamar Cecil and his class take advantage of a sunny day.
Good weather has become a treasured item in Lexington this spring,
between thunderstorms and downpours.

ing the recent thefts in the Law School
Library. MacFarland said several no-
tices were posted about the thefts, but no
honor violations were reported to the EC.
IMacFarland said the EC Advocates,
the law students assigned to represent
accused students in honor trials, have
been somewhat irate about the current
state of the Honor System. According to

probation

officer in the house when the
bottle throwing occurred, Smith
said, and he thinks the expelled
Beta was involved in the actual
bottle throwing.

Five students were involved
in the bottle throwing, two were
Betas and the rest were from other
houses, said Hotchkiss.

The action taken by Beta’s
House Corporation was not a di-
rect result of the bottle throwing
incident, Hotchkiss said.

“[Tl1e bottle throwing inci-
dent] was sort of the proverbial
straw that broke the camel‘s
back,” Hotchkiss said. “Essen-
tially the House Corporation felt
there had been a series of occur-
rences that were not leading in
the right direction, and the house
needed to get its act together.”

Smith said the IFC has told
Beta that the president or vice
president must accompany the
house manager on inspections
with Buildings and Grounds In-
spector Jim Boyd. The reason for
the additional ofﬁcer is for better
communication between Beta
and B&G, Smith said.

Dean of Students David

Howison said SAC felt further
action against Beta was not nec-
essary because of the action taken
by the House Corporation.

“Because it was decisive
we’re confident that the conduct
of the fraternity will improve and
Beta will make progress,”
Howison said. “We’re expecting
positive things next year.”

Howison said there is no pre-
cedent for a fraternity on social
probation coming in front of the
SAC for another hearing, but if it
didhappen, SAC wouldconsider
suspension. But, Howison said
he does not expect Beta to have
any further problems.

Smith said he was impressed
with the way Beta has handled
the situation.

“They've done a great job in
turning things around,” Smith
said.

Smith and Howison both said
increased Housing Corporation
activity is beneficial to all frater-
nities.

“The hope is when there are
problems the Housing Corpora-
tion will act so the SAC won’t
have to,” Howison said.

t’s a wrap

Lexington hosts Old South documentary

MacFarland, the advocates feel that the
Honor System should be entirely codi-
find and procedural.

“They, the advocates, feel that some
things should be changed,” said
MacFarland. “I don’t like [the Honor
System] very structured or procedural.
We’re not a court of law.”

MacFar1and defended the EC’s cur-
rest practices. He said in his four years at
W&L, the EC has been more than fair.

The advocates will have their chance
to affect Honor System policy next year,
when a review of the Honor System will
take place, said MacFarland.

MacFarland said he enjoyed serving
tlw student body over the past year.

“It’s been a great year this year,” he
said. “I’ve deﬁnitely enjoyed the experi-
ence... Next year will be a big year. There
will be a deﬁnite review of the Honor
System.”

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

There wasn’t a casting call, or cos-
tumes, but Lexington played host to
another ﬁlm crew earlier this week.

Van Ludwig Film Production came
to Lexington to film The Charrrre of
The Old South, a documentary that is
part of a series called Stars, Stripes
and 50 States. Martha Doss, of the
Lexington Visitors Bureau, said the
production crew ﬁlmed at Washing-
ton and Lee, Virginia Military Insti-
tute, Jackson House, Natural Bridge
and on Main Street Monday andTues-
day.

Doss said the production crew
found out about Lexington from the
Virginia Division of Tourism. She
said she made hotel reservations for
the production crew, but did not make

any other arrangements for them.

“I understand they just appeared at
Jackson House,” Doss said.

Brain Shaw, W&L’s Director of
Communications said he did not know
the film crew was coming until Visit-
ing Professor of Sociology Krzysztof
Jasiewicz brought them into his office
Monday afternoon.

“I don’t think they knew about us
until they saw Washington and Lee,”
Shaw said. “I think they kind of
stumbled on to us serendipitously.”

The production crew ﬁlmed on the
colonnade and extensively in Lee
Chapel, said Shaw.

Doss said she was told previous
broadcasts of the Stars, Stripes and 50
States series were viewed by 250 mil-
lion people in Europe and on the Dis-
covery Channel in the United States.

The documentary should air on the

Lacy to speak at W&L
law school graduation

From Staff Reports

One hundred and thirty-ei ghttl1ird—
year law students at Washington and
Lee’s School of Law expect to receive
their juris doctor degrees Sunday.

The ceremony for the university’s
138th graduating law class will begin
at 2:30 p.m. on the lawn in front of the
Lee House. In the event of rain, the
ceremony will be held in the Warner
Center. V

The Honorable Elizabeth B. Lacy,
the first woman named to the Virginia
Supreme Court, will deliver the ad-
dress at the commencement exercises.

Lacy received her B.A. from St.

Discovery Charmel next spring, Shaw
said.

Doss said Lexington’s recent pub-
licity is beneﬁcial to the city.

“It gets the name of Lexington Vir-
ginia in front of a lot more people’s
eyes than ever before,”Doss said.
“We’re still having people come in
from the Colonial Homes magazine,
and that came out in July 1991.”

Doss said the movie that will be
filmed on VMI’s campus, Conduct
Unbecoming: The Court Martial Of
Johnson Whitaker, will begin filming
June 10. Some cadets on campus for
summer session will be used as extras,
Doss said, but she does not know if
there will beacasting call. She saidthe
court room scene will require the most
extras and the ﬁlm crew does not know
whether the scene will be shot in Lex-
ington or Staunton.

Mary’s College in Notre Dame, Indi-
ana, her J.D. from the University of
Texas, and her L.L.M. from the Uni-
versity of Virginia.

A former elementary school teacher
before earning her law degrees, Lacy
became the 82nd justice on the Vir-
ginia Supreme Court in 1989. Prior to
that, she served on th 2 State Corpora-
tion Committee for four years and in
the state attorney general ofﬁces in

Photo By Siri Sitton, Special to The R/ng-tum Phi

Put ‘em up

Virginia and Texas. In the Virginia
office, she directed four sections, in-
cluding antitrust and consumer litiga-
tion, civil litigation claims and opin-
ions and regulations. She has ap-
peared before the U.S. Supreme Court
and several federal and state courts.

Tommy Morrison, “The Duke," spars with his partner
Wednesday In an open training session at VMI. Morrison
will fight George Foreman June 7 in Las Vegas. For more
about Morrison see page 8.

PAGE 2

 

 

@112 ﬁling-mm lﬁlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Did anybody
bother to ask
the students?

In a little over a week Professor John Lynch will leave W&L,
probably forever. In a little over a year Professor Demaree Peck
will also leave W&L. The disturbing fact here is not so much that
they are both English professors, but that both seem to have
inspired their students, but are being let go regardless.

Shouldn‘t the impact a professor has on his or her students be
the mostimportant factor in determining that professor’ s worth to
the university? The question deos not only go out to the English
department, but to every academic department and administrator.

On a campus that is generally apathetic, students managed to
organize a sit-in for Professor Lynch, and posted Captain, 0’
Captain signs all over campus. Doesn’t that mean anything to the
people in charge?

But, to blame this all on the English Department would be
foolish. They are following university set guidelines for evaluat-
ing professors. Professors Peck amd Lynch could have been part
of any other department on campus and the very same thing might
have happened.

This is where it gets cloudy. Professor Peck was known to have
publicly pledged support for Professor Lynch. Did this affect the
English Departrnent’s decision? .

We will probably never know. Although students have a right
to know what criteria their professors are judged on, they do not
have a right to know what happens behind closed doors in a
conﬁdential review of a professor’s contributions to the W&L
community. The debate cannot be put to rest unless an English
Department member would break conﬁdentiality, which is clearly
immoral and out of the question. —

The debate rests in the hands of Dean Elrod. He has the
recommendation of the English Department and all the materials
in Professor Peck’s ﬁle. We would like to ask Dean Elrod to pay
particular attention to student opinion. One student went so far as
to say that she had learned more from Professor Peck than she had
learned from any other professor on campus. Similar comments
were heard from other students. When this many students are
vocal about a beloved professor, it should be taken into consider-
ation by any party making decisions about that professor. After all,
professors are invited to Washington and Lee so that they might
shape the future of the students they teach. The students are telling
the English Department that these professors are doing a good job
of that. lt’s time to listen.

What’s the secret?

This week, a Phi staff member was assigned to write a story on
renovations to Reid Hall. At the time of the assignment, it seemed
like a straightforward story: just call Frank Parsons and Larry
Broomall to get the scoop. Unfortunately, it’s never quite that
simple.

Parsons told the Phi staffer that plans for the Journalism School
renovation were not deﬁnite. At the same time, the people who
work in Reid Hall told the reporter that they were pretty sure about
which ofﬁces were moving to El Rodeo and which ofﬁces were
remaining in the building.

Parsons and Broomall still stood by their story that nothing was
definite, saying a proposal for the renovations would be made this
weekend at the Board of Trustees’ meeting. Are we to believe that
Parsons and Broomall are going to formulate a report forthe Board
of Trustees sometime between now and this weekend?

What’s the big secret, guys? We’re not talking about a vital
national security issue here._ lt’s just "a few offices moving
around—lt’s not a big deal.

Needless to say, the story didn’t run. There was too much
unconﬁrmed conﬂicting information between the administration
and the people who work in Reid Hall. I bet the Journalism School
professors are interested to see what Parsons and Broomall have
in mind for the J-School.

We hope it’s_not another art gallery.

@112 ifting-tum lﬁltt

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Wliimey Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller-

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-

graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-_

ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertisingdoes not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

The Ring-tum Phl,

May 20, 1993

..
\
0
,%%
‘T2,; ,
I
 _ ..V . ' . are...
gage‘ ?za¢es§o\L Twas , \/ova Q.\”<\r“:(CAvﬁ0I\r§ mu: t-:xa-:i,u=»~rr Bur‘ NE‘
‘ (ea, mtr BB‘ H925 HA8 SOME ewwtcreetsries ‘THAT uoou> BEWEQ Ban-:¢u’
  rug €wLtSH bci>A2rMENV
0
Clinton enforces Conquest's Law
WASHINGTON —- Before leam- taxdeductibility of lobbying expenses. be blamed in part on the tax increases
ing what Conquest’s Law is, consider Said Clinton, “not one red cent” from in the budget deal. 'I'he1uxury tax was a“deﬁcit redug
some recent episodes of government elsewhere would be needed to pay for Shephard McKenney, chairman of tion”measme,asisthe administration’;

that illustrate the law.

Last year Congress, sensing that
just a slight touch or two on the tiller of
the ship of state would put America on

 

the bill.

Trouble is, the money from ending
the lobbyists’ deduction — perhaps
more than $100 million in 1994 and

  
   

course to per- $800 million
fection, passed over four
a bill to regu— years——is al-
late cable tele- ready allo-
vision, the GEORGE WILL cated. It is
complaint of _ . counted in
consumers be- Washington Post C 1 into ii ’ s
ing that prices ' 1994 budget‘
are “too high." Wnters Group as general
Trouble is, the revenues for
new law means deficit reduc-

a gusher of

regulatory business for the Federal
Communications Commission, such as
holding rate hearings and listening to
consumers griping.

So now the FCC wants to charge
cable TV companies $16 million to pay
for 240 additional bureaucrats needed
to cope with the new law. If Congress
approves the fee, cable companies will
be able to pass the cost along to con-
sumers. And the fee may notbe enough.
The FCC’s interim chairman says his
office space is already overﬂowing and
he willbehard pressed to find room for
his new troops. Call this “reinventing
government.”

The reinventioniwas supposed to ‘

involve “renting in entitlements” (to
ease “the deficit crisis”). ButPresident
Clinton is proposing a new entitlement
for a portion of his class—the political
class. It is public ﬁnancing for candi-
dates for house and Senate seats. This
program was presented as an exhibit of
the New Responsibility: The entitle-
merit would be “revenue neutral,” paid
for by revenues raised by ending the

tion.

Clinton is trying to assuage public
cynicism about deficit reduction by
concocting a cynicism-inducing defi-
cit “trust fund” that will not reduce the
deficit by a dime, and which members
of this own administration describe as
“symbolism” and “a display device.”
The administration should instead try
trustworthy bookkeeping.

Last week the House Ways and
Means Committee began the repeal of
a recent adventure in symbolism. The
committee undid one of its blunders
that was part of the 1990 budget deal.

The deal-makers, dealing in the sym-
‘bolism of “faimess,” imposed a luxury
tax on yachts, airplanes, jewelry, furs
and expensive cars. This supposedly
would raise both money and the morale
of the toiling classes. Trouble is, it cost
lots of toilers their jobs.

The 10 percent tax on yachts cost-
ing more than $100,000 went into ef-
fect on Jan. 1, 1991. Sales of such
yachts plummeted 70 percent in six
months, much more than could be
blamed on the recession which could

a yacht-building company in Maine
patiently explained that yachts are effi-
cient redistributors of wealth: “A typi-
cal $1 million yacht requires 12,000
labor hours (eight worker years) to
build, not counting all the manufac-
tured parts supplied by other domestic
industries, which provide their own

energy tax, which aUniversity of Okla-
homa study estimates will cost that
energy-intensive state 11,000 jobs.
Louisiana, Alaska and Wyoming also
will suffer irnmoderately. Will Con-
gress pass the energy tax while repeab
ing the luxury tax? Don’tbet a lot on it.
Or against it.

emP1°Ym<‘-H1. Explairiingwhy
Of the C0!1Sid- so much of the tax
erab1e1aborre- bill was debated
quiredtomain- behind closed
min such a The luxury tax (ex- doors, Dan
yacht.” ce t on cars, which is Rostenkowski,
Th J '

6 011“ ' ‘ ' chairman of Wa s

E C 0 n 0 m i C partly a projectionist Y

Committee of
Congress esti-
mated in the

measure) is about to be
repealed. The false
assumption behind the

and Means, used
thumbs up and
thumbs down.ges-
tures. The New

flrStSlXIl’l0llihS . York Times 1'?-
that tlieﬁtixury tax was that the rich ports, “He said he
1aX0n3 Items ‘ did not want his
    to 
mi ion in ost to look to lobby-
1;Va8°S- Inthihg disincentives. The same istsintheaudience
ll'Sl ear a ll‘ . . .
of {,1} U,g_ assumption is behind f,‘,’fnf,hb‘;"(‘,2ﬁ"si°f
lyachil-l>_ui_1d;=Srs the administration’s rials before th y
0811 €1fJ0 - ' ' ° _ spoke or voted.”
The luxury optimistic revenue pro The impliw
tax (except on jections for the higher non, of

cars, which is ;
partly a projec-

‘ I . J ,,
tionist mea— “C -

income tax for “the

Rostenkowski’ s
explanation, to-
gether with the i-

sure) is about to
be repealed.
The false assumption behind the tax
was that the rich would not alter their
behavior because of tax disincentives.
The same assumption is behind the
administration’s optimistic revenue
projections for the higher income tax
for “the rich.”

sodes cited abo ,
underscore the application to govem-
merit of Conquest’s Law, promulgated
byRobert Conquest, historian and poet.
It is: To anticipate the behavior of an
organization, assume it to be controlled
by a secret cabal of enemies deter-
mined to discredit it. ‘
© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

President's wife emerges as a leader

WASHINGTON —— Change comes discreetly, not
at press conferences. It wasn ’t a woman’s selection as
Attorney General that has moved the country these
past weeks. It has been Janet Reno's on-the-job
strength of character in the wake of Waco.

It's been the same with Bill Clinton's other key
female appointment: giving his wife,Hillary Rodharn

What’s stunningly

 
 
    

Clinton, the clear already,
job of re- a month be-
forming this fore we’re
country's likel to see
5Y5tem Of CHRISTOPHER the yClinton
health care. MATTHEWS health plan, is
T_ A Cnlﬁg the confi-

ime- ' ' dence the
poll shows Tngune-Medla President’s
Americans ervlces chief consult-
approving ant has at-
her “promi- tained in the

nent role in

national policy” by a ratio of two to one. 91 percent
of those surveyed find her “intelligent.” 73 percent
see her as a “good role model for girls.”

What makes these numbers so impressive is the
way they conflict with all the media scuttlebutt, all the
endless jabs from the cultural right, alltlie men’s room
towel-snapping at “Biliary” and, of course, all the
jokes, like the one about the first lady’s imagined
divorce demand: “You get the money, I get the house!”

Through all this, the President’s wife has emerged
as an impressive, dedicated leader, someone with the
guts to take on a Goliatli-like challenge.

This is the big change. Whether Mrs. Clinton
proves successful in crafting a plan that saves money,
keeps taxes to a minimum while both extending and
improving medical care is today unknowable. The

public arena.
It is not premature to
say that she and Attor-
ney General Reno have
together shown suffi-
cient leadership talent
to their country to make
it wonder why it wor-
ried so much and for so
long about the country
having women in such
positions of inﬂuence.

possibilities range from the Clinton task force’s in-
ability to find the magic formula, to a plan’s defeat on
Capitol Hill, to enactment of an unworkable, ulti-
mately unpopular scheme, to Hillary Rodharn Clinton
winning the Nobel Peace Prize with a reform so
universally acclaimed that even Bob Dole signs aboard.

LETTERS

inaugural platform, his Roman Catholicism never
again merited a moment of public mention.

In the case of Hillary Rodham Clinton, the
country still worries very much about the design,
cost and personal consequences of her ﬁnal work-
product. But it has suddenly, impressively stopped

worrying about whether a first lady has the smagts

to re-tool the country’s
Rube Goldberg health

What’s stunningly clear
already is the confidence the
President’s chief consultant has
attained in the public arena. It
is not premature to say that she
and Attorney General Reno
have together shown sufficient
leadership talent to their coun-
try to make it wonder why it
worried so much and for so long
about the country having
women in such positions of

influence.

system. What other
political figure can we
name who 91 percent
of the country thinks
is “intelligent”? 9

Yes, change comes
subtly. On last
Sunday's “Face the
Nation,” cultural con-
servative Bill Bennett
solemnly wamed the
President not to try ayd
“hide behind” Hillary.

Now that’s an in-
teresting develop-
ment. ,

A few months ago,
the right was bashing
Clinton for sneaking

Americans have been through this before. Three
decades ago, the airwaves and newspapers buzzed
with the importance of a certain presidential
candidate’s religion. Yet, from the moment John F.
Kennedy addressed his fellow Americans from the

register.

his activist, leffy
spouse into the White
House with him. Now,
they’re worried that

Hillary Rodharn Clinton may be more battle-ready
than their Ozzie-and—Harriet mindsets were able to

© 1993, Tribune Media Services '

Community has a role in preventing child abuse or

To the Editor:
Over the past few years you prob-
ably have been reading and hearing

much more in the media about child
abuse in our community. Like most

people, you may feel shock or sadness
for the children whose lives are torn
apart by abuse or neglect.

In Virginia and nationally, April
was declared Child Abuse Prevention
Month. During April we wanted ‘ to
draw attention to what everyone in the
community can do to prevent the trag-
edy of child abuse. You, as a member

of our community, have an important
role in prevention, not only within your
own family, but within our community

and the state of Virgin, 1.
Below are some suggestions or what

you can do.

0 Help to keep violence out of your
life and out of your family. Deal with
stress in your life by knowing what
situations heighten stress, making ad-
justments to reduce stress and sharing
stressful feelings with spouses, rela-
tives, friends or counselors. Set aside
some adult time, apart from children.

0 Explore your own attitude toward
violence, i.e. corporal punishment,
criminal punishment, institutional care,

etc.

9 Build a supportive neighborhood.
Find ways to relieve stress, such as
coffee klatsching, babysitting, car pool-
ing, shared activities.

0 Educate yourself and your com-
munity about child abuse and neglect.

0 Get involved in your community.
Volunteer through your lcoal voluntary
action bureau, child protective services,
private family service organization, 10-

cal church, or community group.

Get involved in the legislative pro-
cess. Call or write your local, state, and
national elected officials to express

press your support for legislation ugh
benefits children and families. Your
interest can make a difference.

Child Abuse prevention is a com-
munity concern. Your effort is impor-
tant.

Tammy J . Merchant
Lexington Office on Youth and
Youth Services Citizen Board

C

 

 
    
   
  
  
   
 

The Ring-tum Phl, May 20, 1993

OPINION

Spos to W&L: the fat lady has sung

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

This is it. You are holding in your
hands the final edition of The Ring-tum
Phi for this year. Thus, your inquisi-

tive oculars are staring at the ﬁnal

Spbs’ Space for this year. I know what
you’re thinking: “But Spos, will you

. continue to enlighten us with your inﬁ-

nite wisdom and uncarmy ability to
make funny jokes about beer?” Don’t
worry about it. Despite several at-
tempts by The Ring-tum Phi to find a
reiﬁacement for the all—exalted

- Sposmeister, the student body at Wash-

ington & Lee has failed to produce a
single worthy candidate for the posi-
tion of Humor Columnist and All-
Around Knowledgable Guru. The bot-
tom line: Spos will be around next year
to terrorize you once again. Not unlike
Jason from the “Friday the 13th” mov-
ies, Spos is pretty close to immortal
and always willing to do a sequel.
Writing this column has been both a
pleasure and a royal pain in the cojones.
Unveiling Larry Skipper was the most
fuiﬁproject of all. I have received
dozens of letters, FAXes and the like
which discuss Mister Skipper and his
exploits as a W&L undergrad. But

this week’s topic.

During my summer hiatus away
from greek life and the general chaos
of Washington & Lee’s social scene,
there are several things I will miss
about W&L. It almost goes without
saying that I will miss the parties and
the herds of hot women. Spos’ Surn-
mer Headquarters in lovely suburban
B

enough of this silly reminiscing. on to _

Long Island is nice, but in order to
produce a party the likes of what is
usually seen at W&L, Spos would have
to buy several kegs of beer by himself,
which would be beyond the reach of
his financial resources. Oh, well. I
need to fill up some space here, so here
I go with another stupid Top Ten list:

Top Ten Things Spos will miss
about W&L this summer:

1) Beer slides on the front lawn of
Chi Psi — lots 0’ fun.

2) The smiling faces of the incom-
petent-but-well-meaning W&L Secu-
rity force.

3) Two words — Road Cheese.

4) Flagpole-swinging at the Lex-
ington Post Office.

5) Singing at frat parties. You
know—“She was a virgin in her fresh-
man year...”

6) Sitting on the friendly wall and
wondering how I would get down with-
out breaking a leg.

7) Tubing at Goshen and ﬂying into
rocks at 30 mph.

8) Watching people fall face-first
into the mud at Zollman’s Pavilion.

9) Hickory Burgers at the Pit. -

10) Turmeling under the C-School.

In actuality, it will be nice to get
away from W&L for a couple of
months. Of course, in saying that, I
realize that within ten minutes after
hitting the Long Island Expressway on
the way home, I will want to turn
around and head back to MetroLex.
Why? Because Dad is waiting for me
at home with a shovel in hand, anxious
to make some dough by selling people
a bunch of lawn sprinklers that they
really don’t need.

I suppose that most of us, save for
those seniors who are graduating this

LETTERS

‘Student recruitment denies Phi claims PTO’?-‘S50’ disputes

spring, can look forward to next year
and the fun times that will come along
with it. Spos looks forward to those
days of ﬂoating on the Maury River
and those nights of well, you know. I

6) Eating dinners at the D-Hall.

7) Trying to find a job with a com-
pany other than Burger King or Taco
Bell.

8) Construction of the Lenfest Heli-

think I need to fill up some more space, port next to Lee Chapel.
so here we go again. (By the way, the 9) Dealing with the Registrar's Sec-
only reason retaries_
_whyhIfn_i «ti: . 10) The ap-
"181 15 1-S - —‘T_——.——_:—' pointrnentof use-
cause our It Will be nice to get lessdeans——The
§‘d?“a§i“8 away from W&L for a Dean of Dining
IIOT, 8110)’ Hall S ec’al
P a v 1 o v i c , couple  m0l!thS'  Events,ThgDelan
;1atesTopTen course, in saying that, I ofGettingPeople
ists and ° ' ' to Live in Gaines
wishes I realize that within ten and The Dean of
would stop minutes after hitting Cadaver Society
d°‘“8 them home, I will want to Affairs-
Heh-heh) t d d h d Spos would
Top Ten urn aroun an ea like to give his
tShing_s lthit back to MetroLex. sincere thanks to
pos is 00 - 9 - all of thosemem-
ing forward Why. Because Dad is bersome W&L
to for next waiting for me at home community who
Yea" with a shovel in hand, read his 001nm"
1) Letters . k on a regular ba-
from Justin anxlous to ma e some sis. Keep the
Peterson and dough by selling people faith. I’llbeback
Patrick - nextyear. And
McDerrnott—-— a bunch of lawn spnn' for those whose
don’t these kler S that they really eyes glaze over
people have don’t need_ when they get to
anything bet- tlieeditorialpage,
ter to do? ﬁe on you. (I've
2) Geol- beendyingtouse
ogy 101. that phrase ever since I took

3) The new lineup of Contact speak-
ers— Sally Mann, Andre Marrou and
Barney the Dinosaur.

4) Critical Probation.

5) Getting my first car tax bill. (The
City of Lexington normally assesses a
1971 VW at $450,000.)

Shakespeare.) I hope that everyone
has a safe fun-filled summer. Spos will
be waiting for you when you get back.
In the meantime, drink lots of beer,
watch lots of bad daytime TV and try
not to burn yourself when you ﬂip
those burgers.

T0 the Editor:

I respond to your editorial commentary in the
May 6 issue of the Phi. The issue of diversity at
Washington and Lee deserves legitimate debate;
however, your editorial made several erroneous and
misleading claims. The admissions staff and the
Student Recruitment Committee uphold the highest
degree of professionalism and operate by the Honor
Code as does any other university representative.

We do not mislead any prospective student about
the nature of any aspect of W&L life. Admissions

Biplogy majors. In no way do we deceive the pro-
spective students about the social life in our commu-
nity. «
The Student Recniitment Committee, accused of
“‘omit(ting) vital information from the picture painted
of W&L” in your editorial, includes Red Square as
a standard part of every tour, details information
co ceming student involvement in the greek system
to every prospective, and responds truthfully to any
question concerning the social options available to
students on campus.

We proudly discuss the importance of our strong
greek system, as well as informing prospectives of
other available options. Both the admissions staff
and the Student Recruitment Committee are dedi-
cared to bringing in the best possible students to

  
  
   
   

To the Editor:

‘As a former employee of the Pit, I feel for the
students and employees. My opinion does not mean
much but here it is anyway. I think it a shame to close
the Fit for dinner, and I really didn’t think it would
come to that.

information cites the percentage “of ‘students in? "
volved in the greek system just asit cites the number - -
of students from South Carolina or the number of 1

W&L; we do not want a student to attend this univer-
sity if they will be unhappy here. We take pride in the
entire W&L experience and we work hard to present
our school in the best light. We are committed to the
principles of the Honor Code; we do not confuse or
deceive anyone about our school. If, in the future, you
would like to research any concerns relating to the
Student Recruitment Committee, please contact any
member or chairperson; we will gladly discuss your
concerns in a truthful manner and provide you with an
accurate picture of our committee.

'. 2 ('

William Brian Hucks, ’95

Mac Tisdale, ’94

Nikki Magaziner, ’94

Co—chairs, Student Recruitment Committee

Editors’ note: Mr. Hucks told the Phi thatiry'orma-
tion about the fraternity sytem could be found in the
Admissions Statistics, athe brochure Opportunities
,or the Tour Manual. Only Opportunities and the
Admissions Statistics are available to prospectives.
Neither mention the greek system. The pamphlet, An
Invitation, says "In addition to active chapters of
national social fraternities and sororities, the Univer-
sity has chapters of Phi Beta Kappa..." Of the about
23 pamphlets available to prospectives, the previous
sentence is the only mention made to the greek system.
The Phi realizes the greek system may be discussed in
interviews and on tours.

(Former employee regrets GHQ closing

While we’re on the subject of the Pit, I have not
seen anything written about the former management
team, Bill Torrence and Mary Martin. I at least ex-
pected a goodbye, good luck, or have a nice life. And
as Bill was often heard saying, “Beza May Ali
Cachimba.”

(Kiss me on the pipe).

Peck charges

To the Editor:

One would think that after four years of educa-
tion at Washington and Lee, Cameron Humphries
would be able to get his facts straight. In the most
recent issue of the Washington and Lee Spectator,
he once again accuses Professor Demaree Peck of
joining Professor Valerie Hedquist in a boycott of
local businesses that advertise in the Spectator. This

(accusation, is absolutely without foundation.

Unlike” Professor Hedquist, Professor‘ Peck nei-
ther sent letters of protest to local businesses nor
threatened them with a boycott. On the contrary, she
has been a regular customer of the two businesses,
Bierer’s Pharmacy and The Jefferson Florist, to
which Professor Hedquist sent her letters of protest
two years ago.

As I recall, Professor Peck offered a vigorous
defense of Professor Hedquist’s right to free speech,
and an extended analysis and critique of the illiberal
climate of opinion, sown and cultivated by the
Spectator, that resulted in the harassment of Profes-
sor Hedquist for well over a year.

Having dished it out against Professor Hedquist,
Mr. Humphries apparently has been unable to take it
from Professor Peck. Hardly an issue of the Specta-
tor has gone by in the last year without some nebu-
lous charge of “totalitarianism”or “embarrassments”
or “politics” relating to Professor Peck’s perfor-
mance in the English Department.

Could it be that Mr. Humphries just caimot deal
with the presence of outstanding women teacherl
scholars at Washington and Lee?

Kenneth A. Lambert
Associate Professor
Computer Science

Pub Board

There will be a meeting on Mon-
day, May 24 at 8:00 p.m. in room
208 of the University Center.

FOC

There is a mandatory meeting
for all FOC members on May 25 at
8:00 p.m. in room 108 in the Uni-
versity‘ Center. If you have any
questions, call Carlin at 464-3758.

WLUR

WLUR is accepting applications
for AssistantDirectors for the Rock,
Dance/Rap. andClassical MusicDe-
partments for the 1993-94 academic
year. Interested persons should con-
tact Becky Crow at 463-8443, by
writing to WLUR, or e-mail
(WLUR@wlu.edu). Duties will be-
gin fall term 1993.

Hoop-It-Up

Kappa Alpha will host a 3 on 3
Hoop-It-Up basketball tournament
for the Muscular Dystrophy Asso-
ciation Sunday at Doremus Gym.
The entry fee is $15.. Entry forms
are available at Kelly’ s Comer, First
Team Sports, East Lex, and Univer-
sity Sportswear or sign up in front
of the Co—op on Thursday, May 20.
Call Matt Strock at 463-6952 or the
KA house at 464-6141 for more
information.

Furniture

Attention seniors: Do you need
to get rid of your household items
before graduation? I am seeking
donations for a yard sale; I am able
to pay for some items. Don’t leave
them in the house for the
landlord.Call Mike at 463-7501.

 

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt

PAGE 3

Women’s Forum

Our last activity of the year will
be a cookout/retreat at Shannon
Comer’s house. Join us Sunday,
May 23 from 2 p.m. - ?? for food,
games, rope swinging and fun. Sign
up by Friday in Arlington Women’s
Center, where directions will be
available. For more information
call Kate at 463-6687 or Avery at
464-1813.

Broadcasting

Anyone interested in armounc-
ing or engineering WLUR broad-
casts of Generals’ football in the
fall must attend a meeting Tues-
day, May 25 at7 p.m. in the journal-
ism library in Reid Hall. For more
information, call Keith at464-3696.

Car Wash

Pi Kappa Phi and Kappa Alpha
Theta are sponsoring a car wash
Saturday, May 22, behind the Pi
Phi house. All proceeds will go to
beneﬁtthe MuscularDystrophy As-
sociation. The cost is $4 and the
hours are 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.

Seminar

The Rockbridge Area National
Organization for Women and Rob-
ertE. Lee Parish will be sponsoring
a public seminar “Menopause:
Myths and Realities,” by Dr. J oAnn
V. Pinkerton, M.D. and Catherine
W. Zuver, R.N. Tuesday, May 25 at
7:45 p.m. Child care will be pro-
vided.

Phi

This is the last issue of The Ring-
tum Phi for the 1992-1993 aca-
demic year. The next Phi will ap-
pear on September 9, 1993.

 
   
   
  

the Pit could do well.

I was a cook there for three years and have a good
idea how much money was made or lost and why.
Eﬁcept for spring term, Nadine Staton and myself
worked like dogs. There is no reason that with
creative management and work efficient employees

Deal Mary.

Thank you,
Mike Tolley

I’ll always remember Yard Sale Bill and Make A

Letters or My Views that are submitted
after this issue will be printed in the Septem-
ber 9, 1993 issue.

Letters

Interviews and Photos

by Melissa Curtis and Robert Stewart

After you graduate, wha

TALKBACK

 

Student Body Notice

1 A student has been found guilty of cheating on a winter ter_m final
exam and has chosen to withdraw from the university.

the error.

Correction

In the May 13, 1993 issue of The Ring-tum Phi, the Talkback photos of
Lissa Cockrel and Helen Chandler were reversed. The Phi apologizes for

Student lauds D-Hall

To the Editor:

I am writing to commend the staff
of the Evans Dining Hall for all of their
efforts in creating an inviting and en-
joyable dining experience for W&L
students. I would particularly like to
applaud the work of Evans Dining Hall
Manager Mr. John T. Taffe.

It is not unusual to see Mr. Taffe
sitting down with a group of students
during dinner and asking them for their
thoughts about upcoming D-Hall
events. Give the D-Hall an event, and
they will find a way to celebrate it not
only through a specialized menu, but
also through decorations and costumes

for the staff. Such occasions, whether
for Thanksgiving, Earth Day, or Elvis,
are consistently well-prepared and en-
tertaining.

I would also like to recognize Ms.
Gail D. Dixon, who makes my day by
calling me and many other students by
name when asking us what we would
like from behind the counter.

Finally, I wish to thank the Dining
Hall staff for helping to make my fresh-
man and senior years at W&L healthy
and happy.

Teresa A. Williams, '93

Layout by Joe Framptom

 

t will you miss most about W&L?

Andrea Cardamone, Gladwyne, Betsy Kleiner, Colorado Springs,‘ Drew Winterer, Essex, Conn. and Shannon Comer, Decatur, Ga. Spencer Bell, Donna, Tex. Tim Thompson, Fort Worth, Tex.
mum Com _ “No really, the Spectator,” “Sleeping late, skipping classes, and “Everything. I don’t want to leave.”
“The scenery.” “Hot nights with hot men in the Bor- «_v 13"?" “Funk ’

dello.” 7 r

 

PAGE 4

Becca: Musical fantasy opens tonight

Unique characters and colorful sets high-
lighttliis weekend’s theatre production of Becca,
a fantastical children’s tale written by Wendy
Kesselman and directed by Associate Professor
of Drama J. D. Martinez.

“The play shows that children have the prob-
lem of the balance between independence and
the fear of independence which adults tend to
forget. It is about the struggle to be free and the
desire to be accepted,” said Martinez.

Mandy Irons, ’95, who starred last fall as
Toinette in The Imaginary Invalid, plays Becca.
She said, “It’s been a lot of fun, but difficult at
times because I always have to respond like a
child.”

“It’ s more difficult to remain consistent than
the other roles I’ve played. Playing Becca has

brought out the child in me,” she said.
“Chidren’s theatre is different because you
mustremember that you’re performing forchil-
dren. We had to make some alterations so that
the children can understand what is going on,”
said Irons. “We have to play directly to the

children, and that is an exciting difference.

about children’s theatre.”

Martinez took a sabbatical leave last fall to
research children’s theatre.

“I have children of my own, and I began to
see how they develop their creativities. I was
interested in the similarities between a young
child’s development and theatre,” he said.

“It’s much more bold and brightly colored
than the other types of theatre, and because
there’s the fantasy element, I’ve been able to
work with an excellent de-
sign team to create the world
of large animals in the play,”
said Martinez.

The animal costumes cre-
ate large, lively images.

Gretchen Hall, ’96, who
plays the bullfrog, said, “We
wear prosthetics, like Big
Bird or Cookie Monster on
Sesame Street..”

“It’s an all-encompass-
ing costume. They are all fit-
ted exactly to our sizes,” she
said.

Irons said, “The animals
are huge and wonderful. My
costume looks like Dorothy’ s
from The Wizard of 02, ex-
cept it is bright red.”

Hank Huff, ’93, plays
Becca’s older brother
Jonathan. He wears a vest,
knickers, and a bow tie, and
looks, according to Irons, like
Little Lord Fauntleroy.

University Chorus direc-
tor Courtney Birch, who
worked with last year’s mu-
sical, A Funny Thing Hap-
pened on the Way to the F a-
rum, is the musical director
for Becca.

She said, “It’s a relatively

Becca, played by Mandy Irons, faces the ultimate
adventure of her young life.

short show, about an hour
long, and there are 15 to 16
songs. The singers are very
talented, and it’s been excit-

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1993

FEATURES

By MATI‘ DILLARD
Phi Staff Writer

"z
;irI‘|.\3Ilv.;nl\n\t|lD;

‘ll 'ri'tIrIi ‘lay
‘it ’i'iii{i/ Kcssrﬁiiaii

’I)i'rrri:i!'Iiy
_’l. 0. Martina;

Lenfest Center
Johnson Theatre

6 . 20,21, 22 7:00 pm
May 22, 28 2:00 pm

ing to work with such great voices.”

Irons said, “I’ve enjoyed the singing. There
are several styles of music to perform.”

“ Sometimes it is difﬁcult to sing because
the role is very physical, like Toinette, and I
have to keep the childlike, mechanical voice
after running around,” she said.

“I think the children will like it. Some of the
children who have seen the rehearsals have
actually been worriedfor Becca. They tend to
pick a favorite character and respond to it,” said
Irons.

Peter Dishman, ’96, is enjoying his first
theatre experience as the grasshopper.

“I think the message for children is human-
ist, just to believe in yourself and your dreams.
For adults, I think it’s a message to break out of
the work grind,” he said.

Martinez said, “The subject matter lends
itself to entertain both adults and children.”

“There are some modern, more hip images
that will appeal to adults. The children will
enjoy it because it is strange and bizarre and has

lots of fantasy ob-
jects. The adults
will enjoy it for
those same
reasons,”he said.
“The children
may learn that if
they face their
fears they can
conquer them. If
there is a mes-
sage, it is for the
children,”
Martinez said.

Rockbridge V

County elemen-
tary school chil-
dren will see spe-
cialmomingper—
formances on
Monday and
Tuesday, May 24
and 25.

While at Washington and Lee, the children
will tour the backstage of Lenfest Center, and
W&L volunteers will answer questions.

Becca opens Thursday, May 20 at 7:00 .

  
     
    
 
  
 
  
  
 

 

   
 
  
    

     
 

Director J.D. Martinez and costumer Laurie MacRae make ..
adjustments in Becca’s costume.

  

   
   

p.m., and will be performed on May 21 and 22
at 7:00 p.m. and May 22 and 23 at 2:00 p.m. For
ticket information contact the Lenfest box of-
fice at 463-8000. .

   
   
  
 

 
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 

The tap-dancing tat little rats, Dana Lawrence and Madeline white, and
ancient Ida the Spider, Michelle Brien, ensnare Becca S g

 
 
  
 

 
   
 

lver Get Somebody lotally Wasted!

  
   
    
 
  
   
   
       

IA/(I Ilii /(H5.
L‘/lli,4 W

 

FRIENDS ll[]N' lil FRIENDS lllllllt DRUNK

'5‘ '0! u s. Department oi Transportation

DRUNK DRIVING PREVENTlON Ci3.lVlF'AlGN

NEWSPAPER AD NO. DD-90—1716—3 COL. x10.5"‘ _ p .
Volunteer Agency: Wells, Rich, Greene, lnc.. Campaign Director: Richard S. Helstein, General Foods, USA

W&L -Students, we we come you to our Barber hop for,
‘your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers. 1 

Ideal Barber Shop ,4

22 S. Main St., Lexington - Below First American Bank 

 
   

Carpool to James Madison Univer-
sity next fall. My car or trade help
for disabled lady for recompense.
Call 463-3346 for more info.

 

4 Hardware, Paint and Related Items .

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 pm. ‘Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

      
  
   
     

3' l‘iit‘::‘L‘i amt

l'::i sort‘.

  

\- -\
I.’

tip 5.7l'6.i‘ii‘to-. .~'=;r=‘-,=itm‘. :'.i' l..

Caring, stable single female
school teacher desires to
adopt a baby. Financially secur

463-2186

 

WET FUN CHARTERS

Vacation Sailing Adventures

(305) 949-2380

Let Frank and Anne Show you the Bahamas. We’ll take
you sailing, sight-seeing, snorkeling, and more. Come
vacation with us in the Bahamas. .

Family Tours . . . Groups of Friends . . . Educational Trips

 

Can provide loving & fun family.
Call collect 804-572-8403 or
write P. O. Box 655. South Boston.

VA 24592.

   
   

  

_EMPLOXMENT
.'0RPORTyNlTY

ALASKA SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
FISHERIES - Students Needed! Earn up
to $600+ per week in canneries or 34,000+
per month on fishing boats. re
transportation! Room& Board. Over ,000
openings. No experience necessary. Male

  
   
   
   
   
 

kk

W&L’

1870 Washington College"Diploma
signed “R.E. Lee M 9

Signatures:
Fitzhugh Lee
M. Miley

' Edward Valentine

W&L Coppcrplate. hand—colored , O
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art

Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

limlmﬂﬂﬂﬁ
lilllllllll

or Female. For employment program call:

1-206-545-4155 ext. A5342
Student Employment Services

 
 

Art

   
 

R.E. Lee. Jr.
John Letcher

   
  
 

CRUISE JOBS

Students Needed!

Earn up to $2,000+ per month +
world travel (Hawaii, Mexico,
the Caribbean, etc.) working for
Cruise Ships or Tour Companies.
Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time
employment available. For
employment program call:
Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-0468 ext. C5342

     
 

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday -Saturday

10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. p,

 

 

 

   

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1993

 

By KRISTA TAURINS
Phi Contributing Writer

Dr. Barry Kolman of Washington
and Lee’s music department will boldly
do what no one before him has done. No
American, anyway.

On May 22, Kolman will travel to

Baku, Azerbaijan, where he will be the
first American to conduct
the National Symphony of
Azerbaijan.
.3 “It’s going to be tele-
vised,” said Kolman, “and
they’llbetaping the rehears-
als. Lots of pictures.”

Kolman was invited to
Baku by the Minister of Cul-
ture of Azerbaijan. When

 

l'Ko man makes music
and history in Azerbaijan

said he can identify his name,
written across the bottom in bold
red Cyrillic letters.

Kolman said the press cover-
age and publicity boosted the sta-
tus of the Ukrainian orchestra.
He recently received a tliarik—you
note from the Ukrainian conduc-
tor.

“I feel pretty good about that,
that I was ableto keep
his orchestra going,”
said Kolman. “He’s
now able to get
money from the gov-
emment.”

Kolman’s first
conducting adventure
inRussiawas in 1991,

the National Opera of .
Azerbaijan heard he was
coming, they invited him to
conduct as well.

“I’m not sure whether I’m the first

American to conduct the Opera Com-
pany,” he laughed.
Q Arranging the trip was a five-month
process, involving numerous FAXes and
phone calls to Baku. “That in itself was a
project,” said Kolman.’

Kolman’s interpreter during the pro-
cess was Arkady Jeifitz, violinist and
recent emigre from Russia and the W&L
. ymphony Orchestra’s concert master

is year. Jeiﬁtz is a former performer in
the National Symphony of Azerbaijan,
and contacted them on Kolman’s behalf.

This will be Kolman’s third experi-
ence conducting in the former Soviet
Union. Last year he conducted a cham-
her orchestra in Kherson, Ukraine.

“I was the only American, and they
don’t get a heck of a lot of tourists,” he
said. “The whole town came out in
droves.”

Kolman conductedtwo performances,
which 1600 people attended. Struck by

e generosity of the people he met, he
aid he received “enough flowers to open
a ﬂower shop.”

A poster from that trip hangs on the

wall of his office behind Kolman’s desk.

Kolman

Though he can’t read the Russian, he V

Crimea. Kolman had
sent letters to foreign
orchestras, hoping to
stimulate musical ex-
change programs. Subsequently,
the conductor from the Crimean
orchestra, Alexei Gulyanitsky,
conducted the W&L orchestra
this year.

“I thought everyone would
benefit from this kind of cultural
exchange,” Kolman said. ‘

Gulyanitsky certainly did.
Kolman says Gulyanitsky was
intrigued by a sponge he picked
up from Kolman’s kitchen
counter. He’d never seen one
before.

“I took him to Walmart and
Kroger and he just stared,” said
Kolman. “He wanted to buy a
sponge. He bought three or four
for his wife.”

Kolman is now busy studying
the scores he will conduct in Baku.

Kolman an chose some Ameri-
can music: Aaron Copland’ s Sym-
phony No. 3 and the Ballet Suite
by Walter Piston.

“The only American compos-
ers they know are Gershwin,
Copland, and Bernstein,” he said.
“I try to bring other composers as
well.”

.. when he went to the '

  

  

 

  

  °i?P<>

All WiriiferMerc_handi.se   5 1 

  

FEATURES

PAGE 5

Art exhibit features seniors’ projects

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Features Editor

The senior thesis art exhibit which is
on display this week in the duPont Gal-
lery features a variety of artwork from
Washington and Lee seniors David
Phillips, Malinda Murphey, Dee
T. Miles, Chris Doherty, and C.

enced by Edward Hopper, a 20th century
American who painted the urban land-
scape.

“His paintings are stark and empty,
and have no figures. I think my pictures
reﬂect that somewhat. He has inﬂuenced
me the most.”

Crothers, who is not an art major but
was included in the show because he has

done much of the work that is re-
quired for a senior thesis, deals with
the portrait as subject in his photo-
graphs. '

Crothers has been working with
University photographer Patrick
Hinely in addition to his studio art
courses.

Crothers said that he comes up

with the idea for a photograph and then
looks for people who will work best in
the photo.

“I spend a lot of time thinking about
how best to capture a person’s person-
ality on film,” Crothers said.

Crothers said that most of his sub-
jects were people that he knew at W&L
or around town.

“You have to ﬁnd some-

Taylor Crothers.

The students assembled the
exhibit to showcase their the-
ses, which are the culmination
of their workasartmajors. They
have been working with W&L
art professors Agnes Carbrey
and Larry Stene to prepare for
the exhibit.

Doherty, whose work in the
show focuses on interpretation
of the urban landscape, said,
“The cityscape has always in-
terestedme. I’m from abig city,
so that was my initial focus. I
wanted to draw som ethin 2 from
wanted to draw something from
the city, but I didn’t want to
work from photographs, so I
went straight to drawing from
life.”

Several of Doherty’s pieces
in the show are representations
of Lexington.

“There are a lot of interest-
ing forms in Lexington,”
Doherty said. “There is a lim-
ited number of buildings, so that
gives me a focus.” Doherty said
he particularly concentrated on
early morning in his work.

“I really like the quality of
light at sunrise. The streets are
kind of empty. There’s a som-
ber quality at sunrise that I tried
to show in my work,” Doherty
said.

Doherty worked with oil
paint crayon for his thesis be-
cause he was interested in the
idea of color.

“I had done a bunch of char-
coal drawings, but charcoal is
very dusty and the color doesn't
last. Oil is much more penna-
nent.” _

Doherty said he has been most

Evans Dining Hall 

islnovv accepting
applications for

Crother’s photo “Untitled”

    

130 S. Main St.

  

V ondalc - - Di’1 ck - i
I Jansport daypacks and  bags ‘ .
  ’ Lexington Bike Shop _‘

Mon.-iiri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

body you can work with,”
he said. “Most people are
taken aback or flattered
when you ask them if you
can take their picture.”

Crothers said, “In my
photographs I try to make
things that look ordinary
lookdifferent. Photography
is about documenting some-
thing that’s there and mak-
ing it unique.”

Phillips’ work in the ex-
hibit is comprised of assem-
blages that incorporate
found objects and mixed
media. Murohev’s small and
large format paintings are
done in oil paint and utilize
a representational style.
Miles’ abstract sculptures
are fabricated in welded
metal using bright colors.

The students’ exhibit will
be on display until Thurs-
day, June 3. DuPont Gal-
lery hours are 8 a.m. to 5

day.

Last Week’s
Crossword
Puzzle Solved:

    

> 1 a

453-7969

   
 

p.m. Monday through Fri-

 

WE23 N. Main sir . 50% V (703)463-5938
-Lexinton,VA24450  A" '

i«»‘“"92“f’%*«   f

Lineworkers, Checkers, and
Dishroom for the 1993-94
school year. To inquire, see

p Robert Dunlap at Evans

ii HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS A -*-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-—-'

   
   
       
     
     
    
 

    

\

  

 

    

ey all you underclassrnen, taking_a light load in the fall? Won’t be

‘ableto play_the. violin ever a am? ant to be part of a great 9
University publication? Want to _now the news before any one else.
I ’m very sorry I ‘voted for Bill Clinton. Like to stay _u really late on

Wednesday nights?.Do you have a very slow socia life. I the _

answer to these questions is a heartily agree, then you shou d war It
for the Phi next year.

\

     

oooeoooooooooooooeeoooooooo
il
I
I
I

     
     
   
   
   
   
      
    
   
   
     
     
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
   

 
 

 
 

  

  

' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving ‘ '  
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT p    Fa In fOr Ren 
11W. Nelson_St_reet Robby Jones , E SCC1udCd; 3 BCdrOOm, 2 E:
plocvgirigton, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022 I V‘ ' E B ath Fireplace E
OUTLET     ’ r ‘   
?6‘zé¢ ,4»  I    .  woodstove. Very large Rec 
LEE HIP 1§‘a§§$s"$1§§rFa‘§i%°§fi§§§ ’§33‘z.?‘i.l§%’o3§‘i$ls’Z‘§§‘i¥.iw°”’  TOOII1 With Bat 0113 Of the 
at ' veryday 1 GUARANTEED! We rece've I  ° ' . 
Breakfast BuffetFriday & Saturday merchandise fromAmerica’s mostfamoiismail“ .   best Vlews In Lexlngton’ 
Nig1l’litU1%: p.né. ms: $.31. orderhouses. New shipments Every Week!  Large front yard. 
A--an at . In_  _ .  _ 
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m.to 2 Cat§fg;°g:V§II$1§1:1edS§aégI%2§;a%$e“£31yFmn°m  3 II11l€S out On  
Wednefdany .-gclioice of There “,6 r°d“°:ti°“5 from 25 4"/5% °n M353 and  (Tat,  
/2 k éngtgago &v‘e/ghet1abRle k $10 95 :’°“‘°“ 1::°“““3f' , 1 $  Rent 1S negotiable. Call 
1 Rac — . 0 e ac - . amous ttops orwomen-re y 18-  
Saturday Night Prime Rib Now $3.00. Seleéted Henley Shins reduced to$3.00.   _________ ___-Ij
_ Queen Cut $1 1.95 King Cut $ 1 3.95 33139“? 1§I‘f(T)1’Sr‘:‘3nddcVeV(‘l3me§1:IS9S§W€at€FS - 1'-"3'3':'3':'3':'5'3":-'3‘:'3'3'5':':':':':'3':-'3'5':'3':"-'-'-'-"-'-'-'-"-'-'-"-'4
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served R’-811131)’ . ‘ 11 Y0 ~- '
24 hrs. a day. Lexingtont Congratufations
D t R b tE. L Bld .
We a:c(:1p1il\e/isEiobifggtgrrdaliggéiolige and 0Iv'vI:)1u(l)‘vSi;nl\’(I0I(i.-giant. 9:38?5:30g) to tﬁe W&L C[a55 0f1993
3 he 11 703-463-9730
‘     I it Cards? " §riTnEm' :'siaiiiii'c€'s.'iiiii 'i7'si27iL‘piiiu"riiiou?r133‘3ii"' _ r _
Do You Want VISA 8: MasterCard C rh '. d d S: S’ , t     : €}h!§I|vgEf(g|s"T¥§s
 ~ . Now ucanhavetwootcmostrccognze an 9 - - ~
.   G P :;=.:i°err;.:.::se. remit : .’.”’f...."".i‘.°“"".......i.f.'.‘.:‘.1t :  
“Ea cm-:oi‘r or HAVE Been ‘TURNED DOWN BEFORE!‘ . appmkd ,mmed,a,dy_ » i V . 9 . I ¢g§f:ggr 
' VISA!” and Masiercarde the credit cards you I _ . I ESZTON gig/Fr|>MTwE
M” “"§r'€>°ri‘£as“I:J.‘%;,?.‘:°.;e:.g*;:;,A,;';,t:,~.';.": ; NAME   ;   e
 - ADDRESS -  Sm Zn, ; rszaeztiasieazrrarr
o‘ .c ' Rr~:r>AiRs'—ANoTo emu) YOUR cm-zorr RATING! | CITY " __ 3fi.’f§‘T'2>‘i§E‘s‘:‘a‘‘vl'c‘°s”c‘é’f.‘}i=_‘’;§T”‘”T
- v ’ A - '  x I ' 3¥Xi§$§$"§§n'3?‘vTs3\“7E'.?éovea
 . mt“ - PHONE   '
SERVICES, \NC eu*"" ‘ “in No credit I SIGNATURE 1 ' (800) 468-6667.
‘  . * “s”ﬂ§‘s2:° M‘: No security deposit! ' non-.-iamac-xuis-‘regimen.-a trldeniarkcfkiuterarrilntcmdlornllric. ' co.-nerofogdenastarkey Road-. '
, _ A c“‘|§‘°““ cl‘ . I visatsnicglstercd amen-ixurvisii usiuim-_mavisAtniennuomi I (;\;:r(l)ookici*,igT;::g<l3ew’:>od Nlaii
I rcurd ' .  s=-°~~—m“  :   -
._¢,_ - g___________,,__._,___________ —

 

 

Cheney and wife to
speak at W&L

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Former, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney
and his wife Lyrme Cheney, former chairman
of the National Endowment for the Humanities
will speak at Washington and Lee University
today.

Mr. Cheney will lecture on “America's Role
in the New Security Environment” at 8 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.

Mrs.
Cheney will
lecture on
“Telling the
Truth About
the Politi-
“ cized Univer-
sity” in
Northen Au-
‘ ditorium at 4
. p.m.
‘ M r .
Cheney is
c u r r e n t 1 y
touring the
country lec-
turing on a
variety of is-
sues.

He is a
Senior Fellow at the American Enterprise Insti-
tute and serves as a member of the Board of

 

Dlck Cheney

Directors of a number of companies.

Mr. Cheney served as Deputy Assistant to
the President in 1974 under Gerald R. Ford. He
later served Ford as Assistant to the President
and White House Chief of Staff.

He was elected Wyoming’s sole congress-
man in the United States House of Representa-
tives in 1978. Mr. Cheney sewed on numerous
committees, including the Interior Committee,
Intelligence Committee and the Select Com-
mittee to Investigate Covert Arms Deals with
Iran.

Mr. Cheney served as Secretary of Defense
from March, 1989 to January 1993. He directed
two of the nation's largest military campaigns
in recent history— Operation Just Cause in
Panama and Operations Desert Shield and
Desert Storm.

He was awarded the Medal of Freedom in
July, 1991 by President Bush for his leadership
in the Persian Gulf War.

Mrs. Cheney served as chairman of the
National Endowment for the Humanities from
1986-1993.

She has taught at several colleges and was
a senior editor at Washingtonian Magazine.
She is also a widely published author and nov-
elist.

Mrs. Cheney is currently the W.H. Brady
Distinguished Fellow at the American Enter-
prise Institute, where she is writing a book on
the social impact of current cultural trends in
America.

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20 1993

Green grass and shade

Photo By Bethany Smith, The Fling-tum Phi

Two freshmen enjoy spring term at W&L. Unfortunately the National weather service is not
predicting prime Goshen weather for the last weekend before tlnals.

ODK inducts seven juniors

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Surface.
Andrew H. McCutcheon, ’48, the

Auditorium in the University Library,

Gaines summer‘
face-lift planned»  

By ANDREA COBRIN
Phi News Editor

Students living in the A-wing of
Gaines Hall will come back next year
to freshly paintedrooms.

Buildings and Grounds will repaint
the rooms, check the heating systems
and toilet facilities and replace or
restretch carpet where it is needed.

The refurbishing of the A-wing is
the first part of a three year project.
The other two wings in Gaines will be
renovated during the following two
summers.

The A-wing plan is budgeted at
$10,000, said Superintendent of Build-
ings and Grounds James Arthur.

Arthur said that Gaines has not un-
dergone any renovations since it was
completed in 1987.

All three wings of Gaines cannot be
renovated at once because the W&L
Alumni College need the rooms for
their summer programs.

“The summer programs use most of
the rooms in Gaines so we can’t do the
whole thing in one fell swoop,” Dean
of Freshmen and Residence Life Den-
nis Manning said.

Director of Special Programs Rob-
ert Fure said the renovations will be a

strain on the Alumni College program.

“Gaines Hall has been a boom to
our summer programs because it’s so
comfortable for adult occupancy,” Fure
said. 1‘

Alumni College participants lived
in the Woods Creek Apartments be-
fore Gaines was built.

Fure said he was worried about
what affect the ongoing summer reno-
vations in Gaines would have in the
future, especially since the A-winglls
the smallest of the three wings in the
dormitory.

The number of people participating
in the Alumni College programs‘ this
summer had to be limited because‘ of
the lack of space to house them, he
said. g

“We’re caught in a bind because
our programs are growing every year,”
Fure said. “For the next three years,
instead of having expanded space we ’1l
have reduced space.

But, part of the reason for our suc-
cess has been the appearance aid
maintance of our facilities. We under-
stand that periodic renovation has to
occur.”

Manning agrees.

“We’re always wanting to make the
facilities look nice so that students
want to use them,” he said. 3

W&L to pay more ‘taxes’ 0

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Washintgton & Lee University will
reimburse the City of Lexington for
taxes that it will no longer be able to
collect on El Rodeo property and stu-
dent telephones.

W&L purchased the El Rodeo prop-
erty on March 17 and will use the
building for ofﬁce space. W&L will
consolidate its phone system into a
networked unit this summer. By law,
any property owned by W&L is ex-
empt from city taxes. In such situa-
tions, it is customary for W&L to give

a grant of approximately equal value to"

the city.

Thecitywillreceiveayearly$2,000
grant from W&L in lieu of taxes on El
Rodeo.The El Rodeo property is worth
$196,100 and its previous owners,
Wade H. Leslie III and Sue Ellen T.
Leslie,paid$1,882.56inpropertytaxes
to the city last year, according to Sandy
Tucker of the City Commissioner of
Revenue’s office.

University Treasurer and Chief Fi-
nancial Officer Lawrence W. Broomall,
Jr. said the W&L Board of Trustees
feels that this grant and other grants
given to the city in lieu of taxes on
university holdings are justified.

“These grants are appropriate to
make to the city based on the services
we receive from them,” said Broomall.
The university is not obligated to give

 

 

also included the presentation of the

the city any money..

Phot_o BY Bethany Smith, The Ft‘/ng-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s
Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa
announced eight new members—seven
students of the Class of ’94 and one
W&L alumnus, at a spring initiation
ceremony Saturday, May 8.

The student initiatiates are Laura E.
Clark, M. Elise Hagensen, M. Ames
Hutton, James F. Kull, Allison G.
Lewis, Jennifer A. Roscoe and John S.

alumnae initiate, is national marketing
director with Reynolds Aluminum in
Richmond.

A national organization, Omicron
Delta Kappa was founded at W&L in
1914 by three students. Criteria for
selection are the exemplary character,
responsible leadership and service, su-
perior scholarship and genuine fellow-
ship of those chosen.

The ceremony, held in Northen

Rupert Latture Award to Brandi Erin
Henderson, ’95. The award is given
annually to an outstanding sophomore
at W&L who exemplifies the ideals of
ODK.

The two winners of The James G.
Leybum Award for Community Ser-
vice were the Rockbridge Area Coali-
tion Against Sexual Assault
(RAC AS A) and Phi Alpha Delta Legal
Fraternity.

Sixty percent of the money for the
grants will come from tuition. The
other 40 percent will come from the
university’s endowment and invest-
ments.

The university will give $16,000 a
year to the city to compensate for loss
of taxes as a result of the implementa-
tion of the new phone system. W&L is
installing telephone, computer net-

'working, and cable service in all uni-

Kent Communication workers Install the wlres for W&L’s new

phone system.

versity housing. Broomall said the
amount of this grant is based on a per-
line charge.

The university annually gives the
city grants of between $45,000 and
$50,000 in lieu of taxes on fraternity
houses. W&L’s fraternities paid taxes
to the city before the university-spon-

0
sored Renaissance program made the
houses university property. The city
also receives grants of $25,000 to
$30,000 in lieu of taxes on university-
owned faculty housing.

The status of grants made to the city
is not reviewed annually by the WSL
Board of Trustees.

Students question English departments decision

Cl PECK, from page 1

“If the reasoning had anything to do with politics, than I
am very, very ashamed that I go to a school that can’t tolerate
differences of opinion,” she said. “She was a great teacher.
[In my opinion] the politics must have been the deciding
factor.”

Discussing a novel which concerned tyrarmy, Lynch told
his Romantic Gothic novel class that he was angry about the
decision.

“A statement such as this is the university saying that
what we want is people who are like us, middle-aged men
who have a particular kind of ideology,” he said. “They are
saying, ‘We don’t like you. You're not like us. Go away.”’

Craun insisted that politics had nothing to do with the
decision.

“Where there were letters which were ideological in
foundation, we threw them out,” Craun said when discuss-
ing the review process. “If we saw gender bias of any kind,
we dismissed it.”

Elrod agreed.

“I don’t for a moment believe that caprice or personal
bias affects any of the personnel decisions that the university
makes,” he said. “The process is too well described and
involves too many people at multiple levels to affect the
outcome.”

Other students reported that they did not agree with her
teaching style. None of them, however, would comment on
the record.

Former Spectator editor senior Cameron Humphries
never had Peck as a teacher but said that he had wrote letters
to the administration concerning her actions in opposition to
the Spectator. .

“She called me a racist and a sexist in her class; my

friends [who were her students] told me,” he said. “She said
bad things about Robert E. Lee. I agree with the English
departrnent-. You have to respect the English department.
They have over 100 years of tenure between them.”

Some believe that the tradition of age and strict confor-
mity to the rules is the problem.

“You are meant to sit, sit quiet and accept the decisions
they make,” said Lynch “They think that the responsibility
of the faculty is to perpetuate itself—it should be to serve the
students...and’ where is there any place that people are
served that they don’t have a say?”

Elrod spoke of the concerns of the students who disliked
the decisions about Lynch and Peck.

“When students develop relationships with the profes-
sors, it is sometimes hard for them to understand what we
have to do,” he said. “It is sometimes a colossal disappoint-
ment. You don’t want to have to sacrifice quality. We are
always trying to get the best people we possibly , can.
[Students] must have confidence in the processes that are
carefully worked out and almost slavishly abided by.”

According to the Faculty Handbook, teaching quality is
a consideration in personnel decision s, but the only students
who would comment on, the record about Peck’s teaching
were very supportive.

“She is a very good teacher,” said junior Alex Ruskell,
one of Peck’s students. “She really knows her material. She
is good at engaging students in discussion and very willing
to go through students’ viewpoints.”

Comer elaborated. _

“I learned more from her than I have from any other
teacher,” he said “You really had to work to do well, but I
enjoyed it.” A

Junior Maurice Cole, a non-English major who took one
of Peck’s classes to fulfill a general education requirement
and was one student asked to write a letter to the department,

had a positive response to her class.

“I highly applaud her professionalism and teaching abil-
ity,” Cole said. “She provided an informative and interest-
ing leaming environment for her students. She greatly
inﬂuenced me.”

Because the department would not comment on their
reasons for confidentiality purposes, students and faculty
criticized the system.

“There is a conspiracy of silence which leads you to
believe that your professors are above reproach,” said
Lynch. “Faculty should be absolutely accountable. It has to
do with power.
Knowledge is
power, and the lack
of knowledge is
weakness. [The ad-
ministration]
knows that and
they’re holding the
cards.”

Elrod defended
the administration.

“You might not
agree with the out-
come, but you can
understand its le-
gitimacy,” he said.

Lynch believed
the students should
be allowed more of
a reaction.

“[The students]
have a voice,” he said. “To be persuaded that you do not is
the biggest disservice anyone could do to you.”

Concerns of members of the university community in-

 

Peck

cluded the possibility that some individuals in the adminis-
tration and faculty do not want to perpetuate the different
views of professors such as Peck and Lynch. Administrators
said that this was not a factor.

“I’m enthusiastically committed to Washington and Lee,”
said Peck. “And nothing is more important than the optn
exchange of ideas.”

Lynch agreed.

“The life of the mind is about a certain engaged disagree— I

merit,” he said.

Hurnphries, however, criticized Peck for her ideas.

“She was openly very skeptical of the university,” he
said. “She was embarrassing to the university.” 0

A few voiced the opinion that the Peck decision was
partly motivated by her defense of Lynch.

“I think it was a political act of the department because
she stood up for Professor Lynch,” said Ruskell,

“If someone is to be punished for standing behind some-
one who has been punished for a particular unwillingness to
sit at anyone’s feet, I don’tsee how we can think of ourselves
as living in afree country or ata free institution,” said Lynch.

Currently, students do not have any way to appeal the
decision of the department.

“ [Students should not] think that in-house candidates are
privileged to appointments,” said Elrod. “I am always
willing to talk to students and to help them appreciate the
process, and understand that it has integrity and is profe§-
sional.”

For the most part, Peck was sorry about the decision and
its results.

“I’m very sorry to have to look for a new job or to leave
the profession-altogether,” she said. “[My husband, Profes-
sor Kenneth of the computer science department, and I] like
Lexington and we would be very sorry to leave. .

“Teaching is one of the passionate joys of my life.”

 

Hams Teeter  
IAN5 LOW PRICES

, I REDUCED PRICE
 U.S.D.A. CHOICE

- UsE OF EEORD "‘ B
.ELE-BAsTING GRADE "A"

I URKE

‘  ~-
‘ J" .1 J

LIMIT 3 PLEASE
WITH ADDITIONAL

I REAST ".‘T'.‘.‘.".‘.‘.‘.‘

LB..

CALIFORNIA

TREsII
STRAWBERRIES

2 HR.

REDUCED
PRICE

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

.99

 WORK AT
«THE BEACH!

OUR MYRTLE BEACH
I AND HILTON HEAD
\ LOCATIONS ARE
NOW HIRING FOR
  THE SUMMER.
I INTEREsTED, APPLY AT THE
. YRTLE BEACH AND HILTON
I D AD LOCATIONs OR MAIL
APPLICATION TO: ,,w>ég,L?;¥;,g

_._  .‘>

~-~ /e-\; .
JERRY ALLEN ‘
HARRIS TEETER, INC.
LITCHFIELD LANDING
SHOPPING CENTER
ROUTE 2, BOX 288
LITCHFIELD, s.C. 29585

I‘I3II'IST08I'BI’
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK!

LARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

SOFT

DRINKS .................. ..2 LTR. O

4 ROLL PACK

NORTHERN BATH

TISSUE ............ .; ..... ..l54 so. FT. 0

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE BLUE CORN

TORTILLA

CHIP5..

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE HOT OR MILD

SALSA

.................... ..7 OZ. O

2/

PICANTE ............ .. l 5.5 oz.

89

EXTRA STRENGTH
TYLENOL
GELCAPS

99

50 C11

UNTER ALL NATURAL
VANILLA
ICE CREAM

4 OT. PAIL

TROPICANA
ORANGE
JUICE

.40.. I19

Pices Effective Throudcgh Maqy

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, May 5 Through Tues

May ll, 19

II, I993

. In Lexlngton Stores

OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To eoIers. We GIodIy Accept I-edera! Food Stamps.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1993

K\

Sporting alternative to golf
exhilarates skeet enthusiasts

By TOM HESPOS
Phi News Editor

You stand in a wooden enclosure,
surrounded by the trees, rocks and other
plant life that is characteristic of the
nearly untouched Virginia wilderness.
The stock of your shotgun is resting
underneath your arm as you wait for
your target. It ﬂies overhead and you
raise the gun to your shoulder, lining
up the sights. A fraction of a second
later, you firmly squeeze the trigger
and a sharp re-

a different shooting angle, shooting
distance or target speed. Walking
through the woods in between stations
was very relaxing and addedadifferent
dimension of enjoyment to the sport,
much like walking a golf course. Of
course, measures are taken to insure
that a loaded gun never leaves the shoot-
ing station; your bolt must remain open
and the safety must be engaged before
moving on to the next station.

When a shooter arrives at a station,
a plaque will tell the shooter what kind
of target to expect. At times, multiple

that this is no reason to be intimidated.
He said most beginners shoot 20 out of
50 on their first try. Later, they work
their way up to the low or mid-30's.

According to Salb’s course bro-
chure, Sporting Clays was created in
Great Britain in the mid-1920’s. Only
recently has the sport become popular
in this country. Quail Ridge is one of
12 courses in Virginia and is situated a
mere six miles from Lexington, whic
could make Sporting Clays a popul
sport among students. ‘

In order to shoot the course, a shooter _

needs his own

port echoes
through the
woods... a direct
hit!

Sound like
hunting? Well, it
isn’t. Sporting
Clays is the fast-
est growing shot-
gun sport in the
country. Chris
Salb is a local
enthusiast who
recently opened
Quail Ridge
Sporting Clays
on 60 acres of his
own land in
R o c k b r i d g e
County.

12 gauge or
smaller shot-
gun that can
fire two or
more shells
without re-
loading. Also
needed are 50
light load
shells consist-
ing of shot no
largerthan71/
2. Eyeandear
protection is
required.
Special at-
tention is paid
to firearm
safety rules.

Salb likens
Sporting Clays to “golf with a shot-
gun.” Shooters walk through his half-
mile course, stopping at wooden shoot-
ing stations to fire at clay targets that
mimic different species of game. The
stations are nicely set into the sur-
rounding wilderness and are given
names that reflect the types of game
that the targets mimic.

For instance, a station called “Bolt-
ing Rabbits” involves shooting at grey-
colored targets that bounce along the
ground in front of the shooter. Other
stations mimic quail, geese and other
types of game.

Salb invited Phi Staffers Sarah Gil- -

bert and Tom Hespos to shoot the course
in order to get a feel for the sport. Salb
demonstrated that Sporting Clays is
the closest you can get to actual hunt-
ing, and you don’t even need a license.

The course has twelve different
shooting stations, each of which offers

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

TRACK AND FIELD

Washington and Lee’s men's track
team is still alive and kicking, as its
400—meter relay team proved Saturday
at the University of North Carolina.

Already qualified provisionally for
the National Collegiate Athletic Asso-
ciation championships, the team low-
ered its time to 42.38 seconds at the
UNC Twilight meet. Its former best
time was 42.46, set one week prior to
the faster time.

Eight one-hundredths of a second
may seem like nothing, but for the
Genreals it is that much closer to a
chance at running at Baldwin-Wallace
College in Berea, Ohio.

Juniors Scott Covey and John
Robinson, sophomore Hayne Hodges
and freshman Dax Mahoney will find
out Sunday if they will be selected to
compete at the NCAA meet, May 26-
29.

WOMEN’S LACROSSE

Washington and Lee’s all—time lead-
ing scorer is also the leading scorer in
the United States, and will represent
Washington and Lee in the annual
North-South lacrosse all-star game.

Senior Lisa Dowling, the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Player of
the Year, was selected as an alternate
for the South's team.

The game, to be played on June 18
at Johns Hopkins University, is made
up of players from Divisions 1, II and
III.

Dowling was one of only 40 players
and six alternates chosen. Of these, just
16 were from Division III schools.

targets will come out of the woods and
the shooter has to know what to expect.
The stations are constructed in such a
way that the shooter can only move the
barrel of his gun within a certain range.
This guards against wild shots.

At the station Salb calls “Cupped
Geese,” shooters stand in a mock blind,
facing a group of decoys. When the
shooter calls “pull,” two targets come
from overhead and descend slowly,
much like they would if they were
actual geese descending on a pond.
Sarah and I managed to hit 50 percent
on this station.

Salb says that his course will humble
even the mostexperienced skeet shoot-
ers.

“N 0 one ever gets a perfect score in
Sporting Clays,” he said.

Even some Olympic-class shooters
who have shot on his course are lucky
to have shot 45 out of 50. But Salb said

Guns may not
be loaded un-
less the shooter is standing inside the
shooting stand. A shooter may not
leave the stand until his bolt is open and
his safety is engaged.

Salb is prepared to offer personal
instruction. His field office sells shot-
gun shells and accessories. Later plans
for Quail Ridge include a pro shop and
club house, where shooters can kick
back and relax after a round of shoot-
1ng.

Prices are as follows: l-2 shoot-
ers—$14.00 apiece. 3-6 shooters-
$12.50 apiece. A second round of
shooting is offered at the reduced rate
of $11.00.

The course is open every day, save
Tuesday. All shooting is done by ap-
pointment. Call (703) 463-1800 for
more information.

PhiSportsEditorSarah Gilbert con-
tributed to this story. She only shot
marginally worse than I did.

Lisa Dowling

Photo by Siri Sitton, special to the Ring-tum Phi

Tommy Morrison takes a break from his May 19 exhibition.

‘Duke’ faces Foreman June 7

I ElFrom DUKE, page 8

“I’m like the little pink Energizer

bunny,” he said. “It just keeps on go-
mg.”
He indeed keeps on going, through
nine hours of training every day, in-
cluding sparring, running, stomach
work and weightlifting.

“The thing about being a heavy-
weight is that boxing is not only a
spectator sport, but also show busi-
ness,” Morrison said. “Not only do you
have to do good, but you have to look
good.”

And Morrison does look good~at
least, good enough to be a movie star
(and he has yet to complete the final
two movies in his original three-movie
contract with United Artists) and good
enough to be considered the “golden
boy” of the boxing world.

“Being a white heavyweight, I get
paid more than all the black guys,” he
said. “I get more attention, but also
more criticism because the media is
focused on me.”

If Morrison comes victorious from

his June 7 fight, he will have even more
media attention as well as even more
money.

He just accepted an offer from Brit-
ish heavyweight Lennox Lewis, pend-
ing a victory over Foreman. If this
event transpires, the two fighters will
geta50-50 splitof all the pay-per-view
proceeds.

Endorsement opportunities for a
world champion will also be outstand-
ing, and Morrison is eagerly expecting
these.

“Any money you can make without
getting punched in the face is good
money,” he said. ‘

For now, though, Morrison is con-
centrating on thejob at hand, preparing
for Foreman here in quiet, distraction-
free Lexington.

“This guy is so slow—but he hits
hard,” said Morrison. “If you make a
mistake, you could be in trouble.”

If computer—generated match—ups
are any indication, Morrison will not
be in any trouble. Sixteen of 20 elec-
tronic ﬁghts were decided in favor of
“The Duke.”

Keep on going, Tommy.

 

 Last Week:

PAGE8

 

  

   
    
    
   
      
    
     
   
    
   
   
   
   

   

 
 

        
    
      
      
   
         
    
      
     
 
      
 
    
 
   
   
 
       
 
    
 
 
      
   
      
    
   
   
 

MLax--Ohio Wesleyan 8, W&L 7 .
WTennis—at NCAA Champs.

    
   
 
   
   
   
   
 
     
    
   
   
 
    
   
 
   
    
   
   
 
    
    
    
 
    
   
 
    
      
      
   
   
 

 

@112 Ring-mm iﬁlti

PORTS  

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK & FIELD

ennis guru achieves All-American

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

“...to boldly go where no
one has gone before...”

Sophomore Marilyn Baker
may indeed be a member of
the ”next generation,” even if
she can not make any claim to
seeking out new life and new
civilizations like the crew of
the Starship Enterprise. She
became the ﬁrst Washington
and Lee woman ever to ad-
vance to the round of eight
and be named All-American
in tennis.

Competing at Carleton
College in St. Paul, Minne-
sota last weekend, Baker won
two of three rounds in the
National Collegiate Athletic
Association Division III tour-
nament. She lost to the even-
tual second-place athlete.

NCAA tourney trip
ends tough way

By Krarm GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

 

Marilyn Baker

Herﬁrst match was against
Gina Peleggi of Trenton State,
who was seeded17tl1 nation-
ally. Baker, the 12th seed,
dominated Peleggi easily, 6-
2, 6-3.

Her second-round draw
was Toshimi Sugimoto,
seeded 4th in the nation and

The dream season for the Washington and Lee’s men’s lacrosse
team came to a heartbreaking end Sunday following an 8-7 loss to
Ohio Wesleyan University.

Ohio Wesleyan scored four times in the first seven minutes of the
fourth quarter and fought off a furious assault by the Generals’
offense in the ﬁnal minutes. By earning their sixth straight win over
W&L, the Battling Bishops advanced to this weekend’s NCAA
Division III semi—finals.

The Generals (12-3) had received a tournament bid after defeating
4th-ranked Roanoke College, 9-8, for the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship. W&L followed that up with an 18-3
embarrassment of VMI one day before the Division HI tournament
bids were announced.

In Washington and Lee’s two prior appearances in the Division III
tournament, the Generals were eliminated by Ohio Wesleyan. The
third time was not a charm as W&L traveled to Delaware, Ohio to
face the toumament’s fourth—seeded team in a contest that was
broadcast back to the valley on WLUR-Lexington by Sports Infor-
mation Director Brian Logue and Sports Information intern Jay
Plotkin.

Seniors Wiemi Douoguih and John Hunter scored first quarter
goals for W&L, but Ohio Wesleyan (11-1) answered each one with
a score of their own to end the first 15 minutes at 2-2. Although both
teams averaged more than 15 goals per game during the season,
neither one could find the back of the net again before halftime.

After 25 minutes of scoreless play, junior Colin Higgins tallied his
eleventh goal of the season mid-way through the third to put the
Generals back ahead, 3-2. Unfortunately, it would be W&L’s last

lead. 1

Trailing 4-3, W&L got another goal from Douoguih to knot the
game at four going into the ﬁnal session. The goal was the 100th of
Douoguih’s career.

In the fourth quarter, the ﬂoodgates opened. Six goals were scored
in the first seven minutes of the final period after only eight were
recorded through 45 minutes.

Coming into the game, W&L had allowed more goals in the fourth
quarter than in any other period. Sure enough, the Bishops scored

twice in the ﬁrst 65 seconds to take a two goal lead. Although the -

Generals would come within a goal three times, Ohio Wesleyan
answered each time to maintain the lead. With fewer than seven
minutes remaining, the Bishops led 8-6. I

As several minutes passed without any further scoring, the out-
come looked bleak for W&L. Freshman Russell Croft gave the
Generals hope with 3:20 left as he scored his sixth of the year off a
feed from senior David Leﬂcowitz, but all late attempts to tie were
turned away.

Douoguih and sophomore Scott Mackley each scored in the last
quarter for W&L. _

Although the Generals failed to get past the first-round for the
second straight time, W&L achieved its best season since their 1987
move to Division III. W&L’s 12 wins and 230 goals were the third

‘ most in school history and the best since their Division I glory days
of the mid-seventies. All three Washington and Lee losses came
versus tournament teams: Gettysburg, Washington College, and
Ohio Wesleyan.

Douoguih’s career ends with 101 goals, 50 this season. Both of
those figures are also third-best in the W&L record books.

Senior John Hunter wound up his career with apoint in each of his
last 45 games, dating back to the final game of his freshman year. The
streak was two games short of the school record.

Four years. ago, Hunter’s class joined the roster of a team coming
off of a 4-9 season. Furthermore, the team had no coach. However,
Jim Stagnitta was hired and during the ensuing four seasons, W&L
would accomplish a 41-16 record and two ODAC championships.

Senior goaltender Brian Murtagh finished with an astonishing
.656 save percentage and a devilish 6.66 goals against average.
Murtagh and the Generals defense surrendered only 96 goals all year,
the fewest in 22 years.

Ohio Wesleyan will now face Washington College in the semi-
finals. Washington knocked off previously undefeated and top-seed
Salisbury St. last week.

Jain  

/l3“"*F*‘» wpk-M~*TR.
‘D")‘t%:"'l’ t» Q-ltjne t

‘*1 ‘-is

6.

also in the east. Sugimoto and
Baker had met earlier in the
season, and the former was
victorious in three sets.

Baker was not to be de-
feated by the past, however,
and upset Sugimoto in two
sets, 7-5, 6-4.

In quarterfinals, the All-
American status guaranteed,
Baker was topped by
Kenyon’s Katja Zerck, the
fifth seed.

Zerck, who overpowered
Baker in straight sets, was
also the one who
eliminatedW&L’s very own
tennis superstar from the tour-
nament last year. Zerck also
met Baker earlier this season.

“There were only three
kids in the tournament who
[Baker] had played, and we
ended up drawing two of
three," said her coach, Cinda
Rankin.

Zerck advanced to the fi-
nals of the toumament and
ﬁnished in second place.

Rankin was enthusiastic
about Baker’s performance.

“It was, so exciting for us,”
she said. “Marilyn played re-
ally smart.

“The girl she layed [in
the second roundlpwas a ﬁ-
nesse player, and Marilyn just
played better than she did.”

Even though this stellar
season is barely over, Baker
and her coach are looking
eagerly forward to next year,
both individually and as a
team.

“We have a great recruit-
ing class,” said Rankin. “Our
slogan for next year is ‘We’ll
be there.”’

Team competition in the
NCAA tournament is played
at the beginning of the week
and singles and doubles at the

 

This Week:
MTennis—at NCAA Champs.
Track-at NCAA Champs. '

 
    

end. Rankin believes that
there is some advantage to
playing in both portions of
the tournament.

“When the girls play ear-
lier in the week, they have
time to get settled down and
their games are peaking by
the time they get to the indi-
vidual competition,” she said.

Baker’s coach has high
hopes for her next year in the
singles compeition as well as,
hopefully, leading her team
to the tournament.

“Next year looks very
bright,” Rankin said. “The
goal has been to get to an-
other round.

”She’s playing extremely
well thanks to all the people
on campus who have helped
her ame, such as [assistant
pro essor of Japanese
Ken’ichi] Ujie and [Law li-
brarian] John Jacobs. You

  
 
    
   
   
      
    
      

MAY 20, 1993

I

never know.”

Kudos go‘ to these rrk
bers of the faculty who ha _
sacriﬁced theirtime fora go ‘
cause, W&L’s ﬁrst fem:
tennis All—American. Rani
has plarmed a mixed doubt
tournament for these prof:
sors,many of theircolleaglrt
and the women’s tennis tear

The May 26-27 event wi
include performances fro
such faculty stars as Dea
Lero Atkins, Dav
HowrsonDennis Mannii
and Lad Sessions. Seile
Washington and Lee pro} - --
sors will also partici ate.

Baker hopes to in ormz
extend her stellar record I
General of W&L at r I
weekend»s toumamer t.
career record is now 41-
ter achieving a season re
of204 during this year’r
son.

     
      
   
   
   
     
    
    
 
 

  

     
    
      

   
    
     
    
    
      
   

Heavyweight Tommy Morrison, contender for the World Championshl
sparring partners during an open work-out held at Virginia Military Ins

‘The Duke’ reigns at VMl

“Besides, there’s absolutely nothing to

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

“Rock-y! Rock-yl Rock—y!”

Boxing fans in Philadephia and all over
the world may be singing a different tune if
Lexington’s quiet atmosphere has done
what Tommy Morrison hopes it will do.

Morrison, the professional boxer whose
role in the movie Rocky V catapulted him
into the heart and soul of the boxing world,

George Foreman.

has been training at Virginia Military Insti-
tute. Under the tutelage of Tommy Virgets,
a trainer who coached several sports at
VMI in the early eighties, Morrison has
been preparing for his upcoming World
Championship bout against heavyweight

“The Duke” will face Foreman in Las
Vegas June 7. Morrison, whose profes-
sional record is 35-1, calls himself by that
nickname because he is the great grand-
nephew of John Wayne.

Photo by Siri Sitton, special to the Ring-tum Phi ‘
Morrison spars with cruiserweight Vincent Boulware great environment
in Wednesday's exhibition.

do here.”

~His appelation
in Rocky V was
“Great White ~
Hope,” but he pre-
fers to stay away
from that name.

“First of all, it’s
racist,” Morrison
said. “And I con-
sider myself a bet-
ter fighter than the
others who have
been called “Great
Whites.”

He has already
risen far above the
records of the mar-
ginal great whites of
the world. In fact,
he came to Lexing-
ton to get away from
distractions of the
media and of social
pressures.

“lt’s great to
train [at VMI] be-
cause you wake up
every day and see
people that are
working just as hard
as you are,”

Morrison said. “Ev-
eryone shares the
same desire and mo-
tivation, and it’s a

man.

Photo by Sir: Sittn, spcia o t e
p title, squares Off against one Of his
titute’s Cameron Hall May 19

Looking toward his fight against Fore-
man, Morrison is very optimistic.

“I’m excited, and there are very few
fights that come along that boxers geﬁ
excited about,” he said. “George is a huge
part of American boxing history; a lot of
people in the business consider him the
eighth wonder of the world.” ’

Morrison compared competing against
Foreman to the fantasy baseball games
where the aged and retired legends coma
pete against fans. “This is the same sort of
situation; I‘m fighting against the legend
of boxing,” he said.

“The Duke” considers the upcoming
bout to be the biggest fight of his career.

“Of course, your most important fight
is always your next fight,” he said. .

He hopes that his strategy will take
advantage of his greater quickness, and he
also intends to use the old boxing trick of
capitalizing on the moment when one’s
opponent leaves his chin unprotected.

“l have an advantage there, because
where as I only have one chin,” he said,
”George has two!” .

All jokes aside, Morrison is doing his
best to guard against every possible weak-
ness, as he demonstrated in his exhibition
work—out at VMI’ s Cameron Hall Wednes-
day night. One of his sparring partners,

Vincent Boulware, is a cruiserweight
whose quickness is intended to help
Morrison exploit his advantage over Fore-
man in" this area. The other, 320-pound
Robert “Ironwood” Smith, might be con-
sidered aextra—sized body double for Fore-

His final demonstration was a five-
minute ordeal in which his coach hit him as‘
hard as he could so, as Virgets told him in ‘
the ring, the boxer would “learn how to
take heavyweight punches.”

Morrison’s secret strategy?

  

ng-tum

 

to train in.

  

Cisee DUKE, page 7.

  

  

