  

~ U112 Eirtg—tum lﬂlii

THE Di-in/ERSETY Llﬁmw g
v.'As;i«i=.r«* “mil 3, l..E.E UNi‘.fERSlf‘i
1 2-1 j‘_i'i':"‘.“~.i \2';\. £‘.~-l~',‘.‘/0

i. .

I st? 2 5 list;

 

New Troubadour Theater Opens
With A Flourish Tomorrow Night

FIRST Trivn.-:'s A CHARM

Freshman Runs To School Record
In First Cross Country Race 6

VOLUME 92, NO. 3
—C

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Freshmen line up Wednesday before receiving bids from a fraternity, as brothers cheer them on.

  
  
 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

Tbmorrow, rushees will have the opportunity to tear, or join, a house.

IFC tries to tame Tear Night

New rules attempt to separate drinking from accepting bids

By KATIE YDEL
Phi Staff Writer

else.

I!

Friday’s Tear Night should prove less chaotic than in

yutrs past, or so the IFC hopes.

Last spring’s decision by the Interfratemity Council to
try to calm things down on Tear Night goes into effect
Friday. Where fraternities in the past have indulged in beer
slides, wrestling . and excessive drinking, this year they will
experiment with coats, ties and sit-down dinners.

The new regulations mandate that all bids be accepted

ween 5 and 8 p.m. No alcohol can be served then.

IFC Vice President Tom Washmon said last spring that
the regulations should separate the drinking from the tearing

Footbridge
can’t join

Pub Board  

By RICHARD WEAVER

’ Phi Contributing Writer

The Publications Board Tuesday
refused to recognize The Footbridge
magazine, denying it status as a univer-
sity publication.

.The fate of The Footbridge, which
was decided in a closed executive ses-
sion, hinged on whether or not the
magazine fulfilled its intended pur-
pose as a news magazine, acting Pub
Board President and Ring-tum Phi
Executive Editor Cathybopiccolo said.

. “It was the opinion of the Publica-
tions Board that The Footbridge exhib-
ited a political bias that we couldn't
endorse,” Lopiccolo said.

Jimmy Walsh, editor of The Foot-
bridge, disputed an editorial last week
in The Ring-tum Phi claiming his pub-
ligation had not accomplished its goal

becoming a viable news magazine.

“I’m disappointed (with the ruling)
because we felt that the magazine added
value to the university community in a
number of different ways,” Walsh said
after the decision was rendered. “They
‘sgid we had a liberal agenda, but they

uldn’t back it up.”

Walsh also said the magazine would
not have relied on the Pub Board for
printing costs.

Last fall, the Pub Board voted to
partially fund two issues of a news
magazine on a trial basis and then de-
dde whether to grant the magazine
membership on the board.

Walsh and Associate Editor Alex
Ruskell said they could choose to try to
overturn the ruling by going to the EC,
but they will make that decision later.

The Footbridge produced two edi-
Qons last year and is currently gearing
up for a mid- to late-October indepen-
dent edition.

In other business, the Pub Board
approved Rick Peltz as executive edi-
tor of The Ring-tum Phi. Peltz replaces
Thomas Eisenhauer, who resigned to
Work with the Bill Clinton presidential
campaign in Washington, D.C.

injuries.
Although some fraternity members

miss traditional Tear Night madness.

be less dangerous,” Tompson said.

process and will allow varsity athletes to tear with everyone

Washmon also said the new format should cut down on
i the number of tear-related ilfjuries. Last year, seven people rtiallyexpecred.
were treated at Stonewall Jackson Hospital for Tear Night

rules will reduce the danger involved,

“I kind of liked it the old way, but I can see this might be
a change for the better,” fraternity president Paul Baker said.
Matt Tompson, a rush chairman, said it will be good to
have something to do other than drink, such as a band party.
“I’m sure it will still be pretty wild, but hopefully it will

 

By LEIGH Au.i:N
Phi News Editor

Construction of a multi-million
dollar science complex could begin
as early as winter term, but the cost
might cripple future campus build-

. ing projects.

Dean of the College John Elrod
said Parmly and Howe Halls will be
renovated and cormected to a new
building. The complex will house all
science departments, including com-
puter sciences and psychology which
are currently on the Colonnade.

Elrod said the improvements are
overdue.

“Those facilities are a disgrace,”
he said. “'I'hey’re 

Biology professor Cleveland
Hickman agrees.

“We’re very, very short of space.”
he said. “It’s almost impossible for
students to carry on researc .”

Hickman said the new center will
help solve those problerris.

In addition to more space, the
new science center will have modern
laboratory equipment and expanded
research potential.

Elrod said the university expects
the new complex to bring W&L’s sci-
ence departments up to par with those
at similar-size universities. But doing
that will be more expensive than ini-

According to a summary of W&L’s
current capital campaign, $8 million is
earmarked for the new science com-
plex. Elrod said it will probably cost
much more.

“It‘snotpossibletotellexactly what
a project like this will cost,” Elrod said.
“But [$8 million] is insufficient to do
what we need to do.”

Elrod said both Parmly and Howe
were victims of a “deferred mainte-

agree that the new
they say they will

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 24, 1992

Building plans roll on
with science complex

  

 

 

 

- _ .l!f $10, Leniest Center

 :4  ‘$8’, science center’

“El ‘$7.5’, student center
Cl $5, Fraternity‘ 7

 "_"Renaissance

' El $3.5, front campus
' ” renovations.

 

 

 if ‘air’ $2.9,_Law School addition
 .. El $2, athletic facilities

Construction  
 A e current capital campaign allots
’"$3‘8',"9_O0,000 toycionstruction
A _'p'roj‘ect's';' two’ of which " have been
fcompleted. Below are the projects, '
.;:»%1t‘ieir'allotments in millions. ’

campaign. The Lenfest
Center and the Powell
Papers addition to the Law
School have been com-
pleted and Fraternity Re-
naissance is near comple-
tion.

A new student center,
renovations to current
buildings, and improve-
ments to athletic facilities
are also scheduled before
the end of the decade.

Elrod would not say if
anyofthoseprojects might
be eliminated. However,
he did say that the future
of the proposed $7.5 mil-
lion student center would
not be decided until after
the university receives a
price for the science com-
plex.

“The student center is
not on the drawing board
at the moment,” Elrod
said. “The science center
has priority.”

Associate Dean of Stu-

nance” trend that routed maintenace
money away from those buildings and
to other projects. '

“You usually think of ‘deferred
maintenance’ as affecting a roof or a
ﬂoor,” Elrod said. ‘ ‘In this case it was
two whole buildings.”

Elrod said that unless the current
capital campaign raises a surplus of
money, or funding is obtained from an

alternate source such as a corporate I

sponsor, other building projects may
be cut.

“We may have to make some trade-
offs,” Elrod said.

The science center will be the fourth
in a series of seven major building
projects being paid for by the current

dents Leroy C. “Buddy"
Atkins agreed about the priorities but
said he thinks the proposed student
center would add a sense of commu-
nity to W&L that does not exist now
because so many students live off cam-
pus. .
“If it weren’tfor Rush,” Atkins said,
“freshman men and women would
never meet any upperclass students.”
Elrod said three architectural firms
will present models and price tags for
the science center to the university by
Nov. 15. He said he hopes construction
of the new building and renovations of
Parmly and Howe will take no more
than three and a half years. During that
time, students will have to “work
around” the construction.

Registering to vote just
takes pen, a few minutes

 

Cool Calc

Freshmen Cinnie Logan and Colin Looney take advantage of the cool fall
weather and do their calculus homework outside. The autumn temperatures are
expected to continue through the wee_kend, with highs in the mid-70s for
Sunday's Foxfield races.

hoto by Mallory Meyers The Ring-tum Phi

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

With a few minutes, a pen and a little political
conviction, you can easily register to vote in the
Nov. 3 national elections.

Lexington City Registrar Lucille Joyce said
students can register in
her office for the presi-

Their eligibility is subject to scrutiny by the
registrar , however.

Virginia residents may register in Lexington
and have their application forwarded to their
home town for processing there. Non-Virginians
who wish to participate in their state elections
need to obtain an absentee ballot through their
local registrar or board of elections, Joyce said.

The deadline for registra-
tion is Oct. 27.

dential election, regard-
less of their home state.
Anyone who fills out a
temporary registration
fonn will be able to cast

    

l

nvistﬁfiésm mayireamr 
V ‘lbhfﬂfdrllle presidential _e’|é'¢V-V

Last week, Joyce sat
outside the Co-op to hand
out registration forms and
entice students to vote. She
said she gave out quite a

 

a ballot for the presi-
dent and vice president,
Joyce said.

Students can find these forms at the City
Registrar's office at 300 E. Washington St., or
with their local political party leaders, according
to Joyce.

Students who want to vote in their state’s full
general election have a slightly more complicated
process to complete. Joyce said students who call
Lexington their home and who pay Lexington
taxes may register to vote in Lexington elections.

few presidential election
registration forms to out-
of—state students, but only a few forms to people
who wished to register in Lexington.

She said many students were not aware that
they could register to vote in the presidential
election only.

Sally Oberrnueller, ’94, said she has not regis-
tered to vote but intends to soon.

“It’s just something I haven’t gotten around to
doing yet,” Oberrnueller said. “But I definitely
have to.”

Dorm security beefed up one year after rape reports

By MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
Phi Contributing Writer

One year after four sexual assaults were reported at W&L
in a month, dormitory security is changing to prevent more
incidents.

Head Dorm Counselor Phil Spears said new alarms have
been installed that buzz loudly when a door to a girls’ hall
has been left open more than 45 seconds.

“Doors being propped open have been in the past a
security risk, an invitation to danger,” Spears said.

Another change is the addition of a security guard who
patrols both the freshman and upperclass dorms from
Wednesday to Sunday, 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. The presence of the
guard has eliminated the dorm counselor on-call program.

According to Elizabeth Currall, head resident assistant in
Gaines Hall, there was no apparent need for an on-call R.A.

Spears said having security ofﬁcers patrolling in the
dorms offers a more secure atmosphere, especially for
freshmen. He said the on-call program is urmecessary.

Senior Erika Lee disagrees.

“As a freshman you need to have a dorm counselor 24

hours a day for personal emergencies or medical emergen-
cies,” Lee said.

Security also has a new Suzuki Sidekick which students
may call to get rides when they feel uncomfortable walking
home, Director of Security Mike Young said. But he asked
that students not abuse the service.

Despite the changes, some women, especially in the
freshman dorms, have complaints.

“'I'here’s no way to check if someone is a welcome guest
at 3 a.m. or if someone doesn't belong there,” freshman
Karlene Jennings said. “We’ve had drunk people mnning
down our halls at 3 am.”

Freshman Colleen Thompson said she still worries about
the possibility of rape on campus.

“I’m worried about it because there is too much drinking,
and therefore, people aren’t in their right state of mind,"
Thompson said. “Anything can happen. I never go any-
where alone and I always make sure I lock my door.”

But Ashley Bell, ’96, said security at W&L is more
reasonable than at other schools.

“At a lot of schools I’ve been to you have to have security
cards to get into the building,” Bell said.

Phi writer Pauline Mita contributed to this story.

 

Photo by Amy French, The Ring-tum Phi

W&L security officer Thomas A. “Baner" Bane shows off his pride

and joy, Security's new Suzuki Sidekick.

 

  

PAGE 2

 

Ellie iﬁing-tum iﬂlii

Founded September 18, 1897

Budget blues

As the local birds pack their little bird luggage in preparation for
the trip south, and the ﬂowers drop their petals, one just knows it's
that time of year again: EC budget-hearing season.

Students from all over campus participate in the ritual opening of
EC budget-hearing season next week, in a four-day ceremony. Each
campus group comes before the Executive Committee and performs
its dance. It’s the EC’s job to distribute among these groups the
student activities dollars.

This year the EC will have more money to allot. This year’s
increase in the student activities fund will put about $30,000 more
in the coffers.

With all those organizations parading through the EC room for
their piece of the pie, things can get a little hairy. Perennial battles
ensue. Questions arise about how last year’s money was spent. The
issue of organizations’ political ideologies breaks out. EC members
debate procedure (it’s not written down anywhere how all this is
supposed to be done).

Essentially, it gets really hot and sweaty in there. So we ’ve
thrown together some ideas we hope EC members might keep in
mind throughout the tumult.

The EC policy of not endorsing organizations that exist primarily
to espouse a stated or demonstrated, culturally or politically partisan
ideology is wise. This guards against student dollars going to
support causes antithetical to many students’ beliefs, and it keeps
the student govemrrient above petty political battles among rival
groups.

The EC is also wise to consider how many students beneﬁt from
a petitioning group ’s activities. Though the EC has habitually asked
this question in the past, there have been some startling inequities.

The Soccer Club last year received $245, which seems reason-
able. But Club Rugby received $921, Women's Club Basketball
$1,020, and Club Ice Hockey $1,500. Those figures seem dispro-
portionate to the number of students who beneﬁt from club sports.

The Independent Union received $2,100 last year, and the new
Exhibitionist Drama Club received $500. Again, student participa-
tion in these organizations does not seem to warrant those kinds of
expenditures.

Moreover, there is an alarming trend in budget requests. Harking
back to the ﬁnancial games of 1989, the last time the EC determined
budget allocations primarily by taking a percentage of the requests,
organizations generally are asking for more money each year than
increased costs could begin to justify. The EC is therefore forced to
make bigger and bigger cuts each year, and there is constant
pressure to raise the student activities fee, which hardly need be
done as much as it has. W  ‘

One might think there is some intentional inﬂation -of budget
requests going on in this most trusting of communities. ’

In looking at the budget this year, we recommend the EC draw a
distinction between groups which serve solely their members and
groups which serve the university community. The former need not
be barred from allocations, but their requests should be scrutinized

with skeptical care. The latter-type group should receive the bulk of
the allocations.

Another perennial battle concerns the Student Bar Association.
In the past, SBA’s requests have exceeded the amount of dollars put
into the pot by law students. The EC is in the habit of cutting the SBA
request to an allotment that hovers aroimd the amount law students
contribute. But because of raised voices and veiled threats of law-
school secession from student government, the EC undergraduates
are always made to feel like they walked the edge of a cliffin cutting
SBA’s request at all. Don’t. Law students beneﬁt from almost all of
the services of the other organizations, including and especially the
Student Activities Board. The SBA allotment should be less than the
sum of 1aw—student dollars in the activities fund.

This year’s big players will probably be the SAB, SBA, Contact
and publications. As well it should be, as these groups strive to serve
large groups of students in the university community. But the EC
should be careful to look at all requests in terms of the number of
students served, and with a critical eye.

.3 ~;p‘ hi 

— CL, RP, LA, GP
Zillir ﬂing-trim iﬂltt
Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
ﬁind. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising content does not ieﬂect the opinions
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, September '24, 199 2-

   
    

go9‘r6 
You Too '$oE!
f '§u<{ LOVE

      
      
 

fiw GIVE you
A are» 0:5
FEIDA)"

 
     

  

Clinton’s critics lie
about draft issue.

_ WASHINGTON —— Buried in the assault on Bill Clinton’s Selec-
tive Service record of the late ’60s hides the Big Lie of Vietnam: that
young men graduating from college in those years faced a choice
between induction and residence, between the jungles of Indochina and
the yellow badge of the “draft dodger.”

For Clinton and millions of others able to attend college, the clbice
was never so narrow. The system made sure of that.

Some of these options involved putting on a uniform. Dan Quayle
chose the Indiana National Guard. Bill Clinton agreed to join ROTC at
the University of Arkansas law school.

Neither course was overly frought with danger. Quayle stayed in
Indiana. Had Clinton pursued ROTC, he could have delayed his
military service four more years. As a law graduate, he could ‘have

delayed his military service four more years. As a law graduate, he
- could have

expected to
spend his
Army years
not leading
soldiers in
battle but de-
fending or
prosecuting them in court. '
Had young Bill Clinton taken this route, he would not be taking ﬂak
today for dodging front-line service in an unpopular war. He would be
reveling in applause for having done his duty.
Such is the hypocrisy that fogs our rear-view look at the countiy’s
least popular war. .
Clinton’s critics continue to divide his generation between those
who supported their country in time of peril and those who did not. In
fact, there were numerous ways to avoid both the horror of front-line
Viemarn service and the ignominy of the draft dodger.
Some of these options were in the military itself. Unlike World War
. 11, Vietnam was an inland war, fought in the ﬁelds and jungles, witlﬁhe
infantry and the Marines facing the worst of it. The decision to join the
National Guard, the Coast Guard, even the Navy meant taking on far
better odds of avoiding front-line combat. Safe billets could be found
even in the Army. A graduate school classmate of mine managed to get
himself a direct commission as a ﬁnance ofﬁcer. ‘
Draft-age Americans had other opportunities for a deferment: the

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

Fresh-meat myth shatters

MY VIEW

By Kris Lawrence, ’96

Capri Suns.

I was very impressed by the gentlemanly
behavior of the two guys. After we got past
talking about the naked women poster on

Freshman meat! To tell you the truth,
that’s exactly what I thought I would be
labeled as when I arrived at W&L this fall.
Every year my college friends would come
home from freshman term and tell me horror
stories about being scammed on and gave

me the ‘be careful’ lecture.

My ﬁrst night at W&L, I was determined
to not be fooled by the fraternity guys. ‘ N o,
I would be smarter than that,’ I told myself.
No beer, no ‘house tours’ that lead to the
bedroom, and Icertainly would avoid ‘can I
see your dorm room?’ But, I still thought in
the back of my mind that just maybe W&L

would be different.

While experimenting with the speaking
tradition, I met two fraternity guys. My
friends and I walked back to the house and I
wondered if I would feel pressured to drink
a beer. I was shocked to ﬁnd a fridge full of
cokes and milk. Now don’t get me wrong
there was a complete stock of beer but they
were more than willing to give out their

the wall, the conversation became almost
intellectual. Hours of conversation from
about everything from Spariky’s to my fa-
vorite grocery store turned to a discussion
about God. All the while, I thought to
myself, could this be true? Nobody was
trying to get me drunk and into bed.

All those stories told by experienced
freshman were completely opposite from
what I was experiencing right then and now.
Yes, maybe W&L was different. What other
schools have guys that want to talk divorce
instead of sex? While on the escorted walk,
one of the guys discovered my coffee maker
was not working and offered to ﬁx it. Now
all of you are probably thinking he was
planning to make his move then. Wrong!

He fixed it, set my timer, and left.

thanks.

After years of ‘freshman meat’ stories,
I discovered I wasn't meat, but just a fresh-
man! The guys are great! You guys know
who you are, congratulations! You changed
my pessirriistic view on dirty frat houses——

Peace Corps, VISTA, high school teaching, uniformed commissiog in
the National Health Service.

What did all these options, uniformed and civilian, share in com-
mon? All required that the applicant possess the ability and the
resources necessary for a college education. If you had the money, the
talent and the parents to find your way to higher education, you had the
key to avoiding the draft. Deferrnents after college were granted to
those who had qualiﬁed for deferrnents by going to college in the fgst
place. -

Why were the well-off protected this way?

Interesting question. Why was my own graduating class, that of
1967, given a one-year “moratorium” to attend graduate school?
Probably because President Lyndon wanted to cut the steam from the
growing anti-war movement one more year.

Why did my Peace Corps contingent receive, along with our letter
of acceptance, an unsolicited offer of draft counseling? Why did Hie

relinquish our deferrnents a_month early so as to technically qualify us
for the 1970 draft call —— which had already been completed. The effect
was to exempt us from the draft altogether, since we would not then be
eligible for a Selective Service call in 1971 or later.

Probably for the same reason the Selective Service system spent so
much of its other energies back then preserving attractive, non-ﬁghtiﬂg
options for America’s better-off young men: to reduce anti-war oppo-
sition among those with the money, the clout and the voice to effec-
tively protest the war.

This much, at least, needs to be remembered as voters consider the
relevance of the Democratic nominee’s presidential qualiﬁcations:
Bill Clinton’s ultimate refusal to accept one of those attractive, non-
ﬁghting options to Vietnam or resistance is less a discredit to him mm
it is to the system that offered them.

© 1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Echoes and ricochets could direct election,

WASHINGTON —— If Rich
Williamson seems somewhat
flumrnoxed, forgive him. His race for a
Senate seat from Illinois was supposed
to be against the incumbent, Democrat
Alan Dixon, an ideologically shape-
less career politician vulnerable to
today's anti-iricumbent fever. Too vul-

cent prefer voting for the man and 40
percent prefer voting for the woman.
Furthermore, as Williamson says, vot-
ing for a “non-threatening African
American makes many people feel
good.”

So what does a 43-year-old white
guy (and businessman and former

me,-able, it mmed om, Reagan White House aide) have to do?

In a He has to
three-per- {n}1a_ke hf" (3;

- mversity o

i°’§"M‘ ail’, GEORGE WILL Chicago law
D‘ t _ , graduate and
blﬁoz ﬁ°_ Washington Post Writers Group former state
whackedby legislator)
the cook seemtlireaten-

County Recorder of Deeds —— a politi-
cal consultant’s dream candidate for
1992 — a black woman incumbent-
slayer. Since then Carol Moseley Braun
has been surﬁng on a wave of friendly
(sometimes swooning) media attention.

Williamson, noting that her name is
now better known than the govemor’s,
knows he must change the contest
from a choice between ‘ ‘a 43-year-old
white guy and a 44-year-old black
woman with a nice smile.”

Sitting in her county building of-
fice, smiling serenely, she seems to
know what he says he knows: Other
things being equal, in a contest today
between a man and a woman, 50 per-
cent of voters are indifferent, 10 per-

mg. Williarnson’s attacks include some
GOP golden oldies. He says she has
voted 11 times to raise taxes and to
raise welfare and her pay, and voted
against the death penalty and against
reciting the Pledge of Allegiance in
schools, and was a 1988 Jesse Jackson
delegate.

But to Williarnson’s charge that she
is a “far-out left-wing liberal” from
“the Chicago machine,” she replies,
smiling, that the charge is “an oxymo-
ron” because the machine is inhospi-
table to far-out left-wing liberals.

Actually, neither candidate'spoliti-
cal plows any new intellectual ground.
If Braun winds up sitting in Everett
Dirksen’s chair, she will be as conven-

Name-calling is childish The Footbridge fights back

To the Editor,

Tragic. It is simply tragic to walk
through this campus and see signs
besrnudging the names of presidential
candidates. Washington and Lee stu-
dents are supposed to be intelligent
thoughtful people, people who shall
lead this nation in the near future. Slan-
dering campaign candidates or other

persons is a childish tactic. Fine. Feel
free to support your presidential choice.
Speak forhirn, reiterate the strong points
of his platform, but not stoop to name
calling. Ifthis is to be acceptable, than
our country is truly in astate of deterio-
ration.

Kathryn Noel Barbour, '93

 

secretary of state cable us in Africa two years later, urging us to I

LETTERS

tional a Democrat as he was a Repub-
lican. She wants to raise taxes on the
reptilian rich, “to invest” in this and
that, and to siphon off more federal
dollars for Illinois, which she says ranks
48th among the states in the ratio of
dollars sent to Washington and dollars
returned. She expects to get to the sen-
ate partly because ‘ ‘the senate
demystiﬁed itself” in the Clarence
Thomas-Anita Hill debacle. She does
not mean, as some journalists have
suggested, that most women are, or
were, inﬂamed with sympathy forHill.
They weren’t. Rather, she means that
the senate Judiciary Committee con-
vinced people that you could not throw
rice in a restaurant without hitting half
a dozen people who would be better
senators.

Fewer than three in 10 of the state's
votes are cast in Chicago and
Williamson hopes that downstate vot-
ers are still Chicagophobic. But they
do not dislike Democrats. Today most
downstaters are represented by Demo-
cratic majorities in both houses of the
state legislature.

Williamson believes Braun wasted
her post-prirriary glow, much as Bush
wasted his after Desert Storm.
Williamson says she failed to produce
an agenda beyond her persona. But her
persona is much of her agenda, which
is to ‘ ‘open the senate to working-class

people.” On those terms, all she has to
do to succeed in the Senate is get there.

Williamson feels dragged down by
Bush who, he says, is perceived as
intolerant on moral issues and injuri-
ous to the economy. Democrats -
lieve Braun will help Clinton by -
creasing Chicago’s turnout, especially
black voters. Since the Democrats’ ri-
otous convention of 1968, no Demo-
cratic presidential candidate has won a
majority of votes in the city and its
suburbs. ‘

Illinois is, as Michael Barone says
in “The Almanac of American Poli-
tics,” the megastate most representa-
tive of Blacks and Hispanics, city-
dwellers and suburbanites and farm-
ers, the afﬂuent and the impoverished.
It also is a presidential bellwether, hav-
ing voted for the winner in all butt 0
elections in the last 100 years. (It voted
against two Southern Democrats -
Wilson in 1916 and Carter in 1976.)
Considering that Dukakis got 49 per-
cent of Illinois’ vote in 1988, Clinton’s
lead today is not surprising.

Strange, the way political evens
echo and ricochet. If, as many political
soothsayers believe, the presidential
election will be settled in the Middle
West, the decision may be shaped by
what happened in Illinois’ Senate pri-

mary last March.
© 1992, Washington Part Writers Group 0

To the Editor,

As editor of The Footbridge magazine, I feel compelled to answer last week’s
editorial, ‘ ‘A Footbridge for the Future.’ ’ I offer the following objections both for
the factual inaccuracies and for what I believe to be an error in judgment.

Your editorial stated that the Pub Board paid $500 to help the magazine get
started. In fact, the actual amount was $350. I say this not to belittle the Board’s
generous contribution, but only to set the record straight. '

In addition, the editorial listed what it believed to be the six big stories at W&L
last year (emphasis mine), saying that “None of these stories was covered in the
pages of The Footbridge.” In fact, three of those stories: rapes on campus, the
CRC, and the reinstitution of Alpha Phi Alpha were discussed in the second issue.
Two other stories — Fraternity Renaissance and the suspension of Delta Tag

B see LETTERS, page 2

 

    

The Ring-tum Phl, September 24, 1992

OPINION

Mexican food becomes sexual too

Si>os’ SPACE
. By Tom Hespos

Greetings. I have some unpleasant
things to say this week, so bear with
me.

I have two words for the freshman

9 class: “Speaking Tradition.” Whatzup

wgh you folks? On my way to The

' Ring-tum Phi office last week, I said

hello to about ﬁve of you and got the
exact same reply that I get when I talk

‘to (nay, scream at) the cash machine
V when it insists that my account doesn’t

exist.

‘Now, I don’t expect you to stop and
vo unteer personal sexual histories or
anything. (actually, if you’re female,
about 5 ’6”, 36-24-34, I will listen, but
I digress-) However, I at least would
expect a simple acknowledgement of
my greeting. I guess they skipped that
part of freshman orientation. 1 know
thgt most of them went to play ‘Duck-
Duck-Goose’ at the Pavilion a few
weeks ago. Go ﬁgure.

Ihave two words for the upperclass-
men: “Pickup Lines.” During these
past few weeks, I have had the pleasure
of§eeing so many upperclass guys get
rejected by freshman girls that I ex-
pected Chuck Woolery to pop out from
behind a bush and tell me that I was in
the middle of a “Love Connection”
episode. A typical confrontation might
go something like this:

‘Joe Frat: [Intoxicated] Hey Babel

[unintelligible obscenity] So whaddya
say we go upstairs?

Nellie Newcomer: Leave me alone.
I have a grenade launcher.

In wimessing such Kodak moments,
I have heard several failed pickup lines,
thus the subject of today’s Top Ten list:

Top Ten Pickup Lines that Didn’t
Work, but Should Have

10) “Hey, baby, you bought that
‘Buns of Steel’ video, didn’t you?”

9) “Hi, I’m a fraternity renaissance
contractor. I have more money than
God.”

8) [Guy dumps beer on girl]
“Whaddya say we go upstairs and get
out of these wet clothes?” -

7) “Are your legs tired? ’Cause
you’ve been running through my mind
all night.”

6) “If I told you that you had a great
body, would you hold it against me?” -
suggested by a sophomore friend of
mine- It got him kicked in the cojones.

5) “Now f—k me if I’m wrong, but
isn’t your name Zelda?”

4) “So...what are you making me
for breakfast tomorrow?”

3) “I am the Lizard King!!! I can do
anything!!!” (worked for Jim Morrison)

2) “Make me late for work-study
tomorrow.”

1) “Hi, I'm George Will.”

Fellas, try these out on the babes. .

Speaking of babes, has anyone seen the

new Slaughter video? In case you
haven't, it stars none other than 90210
sex kitten Shannen Doherty
(schwiiiinnggl). Like several million
young actresses before her, Shannen
has attempted to bolster her career by
appearing semi-nude amongst a bunch
of Neanderthal hairbags playing ex-
pensive instruments.

turn on the TV these days without
seeing some kind of sexually sugges-
tive material. Advertising people are
designing sexually suggestive commer-
cials for motor oil, major appliances,
even Mexican food. Can you think of
anything less sexually arousing than
Mexican food? Yet, when you see a
couple of jiggling breasts in a skin-

tight Taco Bell

uniform in a com-

...Television is kind of getting out of
hand. You can’t turn on the TV these

days without seeing some kind of sexu-

ally suggestive material. Advertising

people are designing sexually sugges-

tive commercials for motor oil, major

appliances, even Mexican food. Can

you think of anything less sexually

arousing than Mexican food?

mercial, you are
never again ableto
walk into a Taco
Bell without, well,
Schwiiiinngg!
What’s next?
You’lltumonPBS
and see Ernie and
Bert coming on to
Big Bird, trying to
get a threesome
going.

Okay, I'm go-
ing to conduct a
survey, the results
of which will be

The video is, as planned, totally
image-shattering for Shannen. She
went from that-cutesie-pie-girl-next-
door to “rock slut" almost overnight.
What’s next for Shannen after 90210?
Who cares, because the girl who plays
Kelly is much hotter.

I hate to say this, but television is
kind of getting out of hand. You can’t

published in my
next column.
“Why?” you might ask. Because I can.
The question of the week is: Who is
the sexiest person on television to-
day? Submit your response at the Phi
office during normal business hours
and I might print it, depending on
whether I can use it to make you look
like a fool or not. “Roseanne Amold”
is not an acceptable answer.

Economic treaty benefits all parties

NIY VIEW
ByJohn M. Gunn
On Aug. 12 the chief executives of Canada, the

United States and Mexico took a great step forward
for the peoples of these countries when they signed a

. treaty to establish the North American Free Trade

Aﬁsociation (NAFTA). When ratified, this treaty
w 1 create the largest free-trade area in history,
larger, even, than the European Community. I be-
lieve this treaty will prove to be one of the most
important economic events in the history of the
United States and of all North America—indeed,
another milestone toward fuller integration of the
entire global economy.

‘There will be transitional problems of adjustment
inalltl1reecountries:(1)Some temporaryunemploy-
merit is inevitable as resources shift from compara-
tively less efﬁcient employrnents to comparatively
more efficient ones; (2) Some permanent decline will

occur in particular industries, and inparticular 1ocali- 1‘
ties, in each country, as the more effective structure V

oﬂproduction evolves; and (3) Some laborers may
have to make geographical moves they do not like,
and both some laborers and some investors from the

declining industries will suffer at least relative, per-
manent declines in their incomes.

When the restructuring of industry throughout the
continent has been completed there will be more real
production in the aggregate, in each country. Re-
sources no longer needed to produce what formerly
they were producing (inefficiently), become avail-
able to produce additional goods and services the
nations previously could not have had. Thus, there
will be a higher average real wage and higher stan-
dard of living in each country.

In addition, it is highly probable, though not quite
certain, that the distribution of income will be im-
proved, even as the average increases. In general, it
will be those who had the higher incomes previously
(those whose resources were “relatively scarce”)
who lose and those whose incomes were lower (own-
ers of the “relatively abundant” resources) whose
incomes will be increased most by increasing trade.

The gains will NOT be equal in all three countries.
We are a disparate group of three countries who enter
into this arrangement-—the advariced and ‘wealthy
USA ‘and Canada, with the much less developed,
much less well-to-do Mexico.

The USA, already the world’s largest and most
diverse economy, has the least to gain from addi-

tional specialization and trade according to compara-
tive costs. Mexico, by contrast, should gain the most
proportionately. But all will gain substantially.

Moreover, the USA and Canada, can have nothing
but benefit from a more prosperous, more stable
Mexico. And even from the point of view of the
world’s environment, experience has been that the
nations with the highest per capita real incomes are
the ones taking the most action to preserve the envi-
ronrnent—raising the income of Mexico will enable
that country to contribute more to the global effort for
sustainable lifestyles.

The treaty is far short of an ideal one. There are
some outrageous, special-interest exceptions in it.
But including these special-interest, monopolistic
provisions apparently was the price of getting the
treaty signed. Once NAFTA is established confi-
dently, we can work to remove these unjustified
subsidies to special-interest groups.

Half a century ago the late Wendell Wilkie argued
that the most critical factor in the economic develo -

‘merit ofthe'USAto‘that date was that it was the iarg t

free-trade area on earth. Now it is about to become a
much larger one.

John M. Gunn has been an Associate Professor of
economics at W&L since 1967.

Q

LETTERS

D LETTERS, from page 2

Delta — were no longer “hot” issues
when our first issue was published at
the end of March. So even if one ac-
CQNS your definition of news at W&L
as simply “the big six” stories, the
Footbridge did deem some of them as
worthy of elaboration.

Another point rriade in the editorial
was that The Footbridge was created
only to be a news magazine. In fact, if
y&i look at the credo and the mission
statement of the rriagazine —the guide-
lines setby the Pub Board—there is no
mention that the publication should
cover hard news at all.

fact I spotted in your editorial, they
point to what I feel was an error in
judgment. You stated that articles which
are intended for entertainment, such as
Alex Ruskell’s “Why I Love Elvis”
piece, may be enjoyable to read but
their ‘ ‘value in a campus magazine is at
best, debatable.” Cannot a magazine
which extends beyond the same six
stories which are the focus of every
issue of the Phi be valuable? I believe
so.

I suggest that if a magazine encour-
ages students to take the time to work
on skills such as writing articles, man-
aging funds, selling ads and learning
what makes a publication work — t is
valuable. Also, if it attracts readers to

examine writing with amixture of plea-
sure and criticism, (and judging from
the verbal and written responses to our
first two issues, The Footbridge did) it
is even more valuable.

I regret that you do not see the
“value” of our magazine, but I am
grateful for the staff and readers who
do.

Sincerely,
Jimmy Walsh

The Footbridge

‘ .

 
 
   
 

 

Heaﬂh

The Health Education Commit-
tee will meet Thursday, Sept. 24, at
6:30 p.m. in room 109 of the Uni-
versity Center. Anyone interested
in student health is welcome to at-
tend, as we will be organizing for a
great year! If you are interested but
can’t attend or have any questions,
call Christy at 463-9743.

Parade

Our group needs a 4-wheel drive
vehicle to pull a ﬂoat for the Home-
coming Parade October 3. Anyone
who would be willing to lend us a
vehicle please contact Amy at 464-
8032.

Calyx

The Calyx is now organizing its
1993 yearbook staff. New and old
members welcome! Tuesday, Sept.
29, 7:30 p.m. in the University Cen-
ter room 206. Many positions avail-
able. We are also looking for people
with darkroom experience.

Food Dr Ive

Chi Omega will be sponsoring a

' food drive until Wednesday, Sept.
30 to aid victims of Hurricane An-
drew. There is still a great need for
our help. Please drop off your non-
perishable items in the designated

box at the Co-op. Questions? Call
Amy Panella at 463-1666.

Bike Trek

Colonial Virginia Bike Trek—-
Oct. 2-4 in Williamsburg. $25 reg-
istration plus $275 pledges. Food,
lodging and entertainmentprovided.
For details call 7,03-434-LUNG.

‘ Lost
; :  £bst:‘one"l4K gold llo6p'éariﬁg.
Iffound please call 463-6832.

Women’s Forum

There will be a meeting of
Women's Forum this Sunday, Sept.
27, at 6 p.m. in the women’s center,
located in the basement of the Uni-
versity Center. Everyone is invited.

Radio

Any students or faculty inter-
ested in doingaclassical radio show
can contact Leland at 463-8444.
Please leave a message.

EC Budgets

The Executive Committee will
hear student orgariization’s budget
requests beginning Monday, Sept.
28.

For more information contact
Ames Hutton at 463-8588 (office)
or 463-9108 (home).

1!,-._

RACASA

The Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault (RACASA)
is organizing a training course for
new volunteers. The course will be
taught by Robyn Douglass of
Staunton’s Blue Ridge Sexual As-
sault Center, and will consist of
tliirty-tliree hours of training. Top-
ics to be covered include myths and
facts about sexual assault, crisis in-
tervention, emotional, medical and
legal issues, the sex offender, child
sexual abuse and risk reduction.

The course will run from Octo-
ber 6 to December 15 and will in-
clude seven Tuesday evening ses-
sions and two Saturday sessions.
RACASA provides crisis interven-
tion and victim support services as
well as public programming on
sexual assault and risk reduction.
Anyone interested in training as a
volunteer, or anyone seeking addi-
tional information, should call the
hotline at 463-RAPE (727 3).

College Dem.

There will be a meeting of the
College Democrats Sunday, Sept.
27 at 7 p.m. in room 109 of the
University Center. Bring Checks
for members hip dues. Call Cottie
Miles at 464-6133.

Debate

Pi Sigma Alpha and United We
Stand American will sponsor an eco-
nomic debate between Steve
Musselwhite and Bob Goodlatte,
candidates forthe 6th Congressional
District. The debate will be Mon-
day, Sept. 28, from 7-9 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

Jewish ?

Hillel offers carpools to area
temples for the Jewish High Holi-
days. Please call Dr. Marks at 463-
8788 (office) or 463-9574 (home)
for information. Also, there will be
a Rosh Hashanah service Sunday
evening in Lee Chapel. / '

Seniors
Attend the Career Development
and Placement Workshops this
week.

Interviewing Workshop: Mon-
day, Sept. 28, 4 p.m in the Univer-
sity Center.

Resume and Cover Letters: Tues-
day, Sept. 29, 4 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Center.

Practice Interviews: Wednesday,
Sept. 30, all day. Sign up is re-
quired.

Student Leaders

If your organization is consider-
ing sponsoring a Parents’ Weekend
event which will be open to all par-
ents and student, please contact
David Howison or Nellie Rice in
the Dean of Students office, Payne
Hall, no later than Sept. 30.

We want to make sure all activi-
ties are listed in the final program.

Though those are the only errors of

 

Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

   

TALKBACK

’ Describe the new Watson Gallery in three words or
less (small words don’t count).

 

Dennis Gambow, ’93, Cincinnati,
Ohio ——- “Tradition be damned.”

Matt Montgomery, ’93, Stone
Mountain, Ga. — “Festering,

architectural blight.”

Erin McKinney, ’95, Anderson, S.C. and Megan McCloskey, ’95,
Davidsonville, Md. — “A plumbers’ butt convention.”

Pat Mcbermott. ’94, Newburyport. Melissa Wolf, :95, Rose Valley, Pa.

Maine — “A Comingware outlet.”

— “Lewd men in hole.”

 

 

Closet door still shut ,

The Ring-tum Phi, September '24, "1992

FEATURES

Gays, lesbians remain invisible minority

Ask Dr. Worth

By Dr. James Worth

Last week I read in the Phi about this new
organization called GALA and it really
surprised me. Why do people turn to ho-
mosexuality and can they be helped?

Homosexuality is a subject everyone thinks
: about at one time or another, but most
people have trouble talking about objec-
tively. There is a lot of misunderstanding.
College students are often afraid to ask questions for

fear of being labeled, so these misunderstandings tend
to persist.

Homosexuality is no longer considered a psychiatric
illness, yet gay men and lesbians need a great deal of
personal strength and courage to face the enormous
pressure from straight society.

On a personal level, you don’t have to approve of or
accept homosexuality. That's your own business. But
at a social level it is not acceptable and may even be
illegal to harass people about their sexual orientation. In
fact gay men and lesbians are everywhere in society but,
because many of them feel they must remain hidden to
be safe, they are largely an invisible minority.

Over the years I have counseled many gay men and
some lesbians, both in the undergraduate student body
and the law school. They are represented in the major
Greek organizations, student government, dormitory

counselors, Phi Beta Kappa and

Renovated Troubadour Theatre opens

See y’a|| at

the movies

 

By JOYCE BAUTISTA m°Vle5-
 Feanues  “It [the Troubadour]
-————————— can be used for meetings
It once served, at dif- but films have priority,”
ferenttirnes,asapool hall, Eppes said. 9
roller rink and hardware The opening is being
store. paid for through the Stu-

But tomorrow
evening’s black-tie event
marks the return of the
Troubadour Theatre to one
of its former uses as a
movie house.

“The Troubadour has
been turned into a first-
rate university cinema,”
Washington and Lee Dean

dent Activities Budget,_
Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said.

Renovations to the
building totalled appmxi-
mately $82,000, includ- '
ing projection and sound
equipment.

Atkins said the funds

Perhaps more than anything else,
straight people wonder how anyone
could be homosexual in the first
place. Straights typically view ho-

Questions to Dr. Worth
can be submitted to

Omicron Delta Kappa, and the ma-
jor athletic teams. They look just
like everyone else and with a few
exceptions have had little trouble

' ety is hosting tomorrow's

mosexual behavior with disgust or C 31.01 C alkins in the Uni_

versity Center.

even fear. A number of people op-
pose it on religious grounds and in
some places homosexual acts are

passing for straight. Often their best
friends were heterosexual.

A lesbian or gay male almost
never will approach a straight per-

illegal, even between consenting
adults behind closed doors.

Heterosexuals ask, “How could anyone do sexual
things with someone of their own sex?”

The answer is not completely known. Homosexual-
ity has existed since mankind has kept records and
occurs among all cultures. It does not seem related
to intelligence, social class or race.

Males are somewhat more likely to be
homosexual than females at a ratio of
something like 2 to 1 or 3 to 2.

The actual amount of homosexuality
in American society is estimated to be 3
to 6 percent of women and 6 to 9 percent
of men.

The number of males who have en-
gaged in at least one homosexual act lead-
ing to orgasm may be as high as 20 percent.

Researchers are more and more coming to believe
that homosexuality is caused by a complex combina-
tion of factors that include both genetic predisposition
and environmental influence.

A large number of gay men and lesbians realized
they were different even as children. One thing is
certain: people don’t consciously choose their sexual
orientation, they discover it.

Straight people may not realize that gay men and
lesbians are usually surprised and, until they accept
their orientation, troubled by their homosexual feel-
ings.

Society frequently treats them with disdain, thus
forcing them either to hide their orientation or experi-
ence rejection and condemnation.

 

son. The only time I have known
that to happen was when the straight person (knowingly
or not) sent some confusing signals about what they
wanted to happen. Gays and lesbians know that a
straight person won’t be interested in them physically
and respect that.
Sexual preference is not related to how well you
can play your gender role or how secure you
feel in your masculinity or femininity. Gay
men can be very masculine and lesbians
very comfortable with their femininity.
On the other hand, people can have ter-
rible doubts about their adequacy as males
or females yet not be at all homosexual.
’ Since homosexuality is no longer con-
sidered a psychiatric illness, mental health
professionals have stopped using the word
“cure.” If an individual has homosexual feel-
ings but is sufficiently bisexual that they can be-
come romantically attracted to members of the opposite
sex, it is possible for them to marry, have children and
lead a heterosexual lifestyle. ‘
However, individuals who are only weakly or not at
all interested in members of the opposite sex cannot
change their orientation. Neither drugs nor counseling
seem to make any difference. They can be celibate of
course and attempt to mimic a heterosexual adjustment,
but for them this would be to live a lie. It would also
deny them the intimacy and companionship all human
beings need.Accepting oneself as gay or lesbian is not
always easy, nor is it easy for many straight folks to deal
with the real or suspected homosexuality of someone
they know.

of Students David

 

for the renovation came

Howison said.
The W&L Film Soci-

opening night of the the-
ater.

“I thought it would be
fun,” Film Society Presi-
dent senior Missy Eppes said. “In the
tradition of movie premieres, black-
tie is the rule.”

The celebration will include the
screening of the Chinese romantic-
comedy “Red Sorghum." The 1988
winner of the Best Film Award at the
Berlin Film Festival is one of two
films this semester that are in
cinemascope.

“Cinemascope offers a more pan-
orarriic sweep of scenes,” Media Cen-
ter Director Claude “Flash" Floyd
said. “The screen is wider and shorter
than a normal movie screen.”

Floyd was in charge of handling
the technical aspects of the theater’s
renovation.

The technical advice and equip-
ment was provided by Lee Hartman
& Sons Inc. of Roanoke.

“The Troub is comparable to the
best movie houses on other college

Photos by Amy French, The Fling-tum Phi

The Troubadour Theatre’s clnemascope capabllltles
allow tllms otherwise restricted to commercial the-
aters to come to W&L.

.. §

 

The theater lobby abounds with
the posters of past and future
movles presented by the W&L

   

from the discretionary

fund.

“The renovation was
/not terribly expensive,”
Atkins said.
_ wasn't any major recon-

struction.”
Atkins said to curb costs, buildhigs

and grounds staff assisted in structural '

reconstruction.

Recently the office space upstairs
was made available to W&L’s sorori-
ties.

“We hope that this year the sorori-
ties will utilize offices for other Gian
storage,” Atkins said.

Eppes said once the Lenfest Center l,
was completed the Film Society -

thoughtthe club wouldbeableto show
movies at a real movie house as op-
posed to a W&L Law School class-
room. 0

“It’s like having Fancy Dress in the

Taj Mahal as opposed to the gym,”
Eppes said.

Before tlieLenfestCenter‘s comple-
tion, the Troubadour Theatre was home

to the W&L drama department for

over 60 years. Situated in downtﬂvn

section of the general’

“There '

is??? M, ilk?"-E  ' 

 

Apple Macintosh PowerBook'"145 4/40

or buy a Macintosh that’s alread oaded.

I But hurry, because student aid like this is only available through " .

$880 4/40
$988 4/so

   

Apple Macintosh Classic‘ 11

Get a great value on your choice of these Apple® Macintosh®

computers plus over $400 worth of preloaded software: The American Oct. 15, 1992 — and only from your authorized Apple campus reseller.

Heritage Dictionary with Roget’s Thesaurus, the Random House

Encyclopedia, Correct Grammar, Resuméwriter and Calendar Creator.

0,
0 0 0 0 0
For further information visit the Computer Center in Tucker Hall
ask for Mac McCloud or call 46 3-8844 sgeyboard and monitor not tnciuded
© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. Powerliook is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is a trademark of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic g

Thesaurus, and Corrt-c'l‘ext " developed by Houghton Mifllin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by language Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. ResuméWn‘tcr is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc.

All product names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh Powerliook I45 4/40 conﬁguration only.

 

campuses that I’m familiar with,” Film society‘

Floyd said.

Floyd said the only difference between the theater’s
facilities and those of a commercial movie theater is the use
of two 16mm projectors instead of one 35mm projector.

The new sound system provides a simulated surround
effect.

Trained student projectionists will have to be present
during all presentations, Eppes said.

Eppes said the Troubador will also be used by the Student
Activities Board and various academic departments to show

  
 
 

   

$988 ‘4/40
$1095 ‘4/so

 

 

the public. ’ "

$1204 *3/40
$1413 *5/so

 

Lexington on the comer of Main and
Henry Streets, the Troubadour Theatre has been the site for
plays, operas, movies and vaudeville acts since the 1850s.
“The main pull behind the renovation of the Troub was
Dick Grefe,” Eppes said. Associate professor and senior
reference librarian Grefe is the Film Society's adviser.
“The Film Society would like to thank the universitgfor
the donation,especially during fraternity renovation,” Eppes
said. -
All W&L Film Society presentations are free and open to

..-~

Apple Macintosh LC II

The Macintosh Student Aid Package. C’.

   

Apple Macintosh Ilsi

 

I he Ring-tum Phl, September 24, 1992

Four countries converge atW&L

ew foreign exchange students learn more than English in Lexington

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Contributing Writer

At the round table in the kitchen of
I e ﬁitemational House on Lee AV -
' nue, four students from different lands
= d different cultures spent an evening
aughing and talking.

Olga Kryuchenkova, the daughter

3 f one of the former Soviet Union’s top

- uclear scientists, arrived from the town
f C§ielyabinsk-70, where she was a

tudent at the Teacher Training Col-
ege.

Through arrangements made by the

erican College Consortium, she is
pending this year at W&L.
This year is important to her so that
he can learn the skills necessary to be
a Russian/English translator.
Used to a poor variety of goods in
Russia, Kryuchenkova is sometimes
. o rised by the large number of choices
f goods in American shops.
“With so much to choose from, it’s
som9times hard to makeup yourmind,”
he says.

German Saﬁn is a classical pianist

from Kounos, Lithuania.

He says that he wants to bring this
car’ s study of economics back to help
's country.

Next year he will return to Moscow
N tate Institute of International
' elations.Gerrnan speaks enthusiasti-
ally of Russian President Boris
Yeltsin’s recent decision to withdraw

Meiodlous sounds emanate
from Fairfax Lounge when Satin
practices piano.

otos yMa|lory eyer, 2

Four new international students will be spending this year at W&L. The students
from left to right are Olga Kryuchenkova, Chelyabinsk; Daisuke Kusaka, Japan;

Rocio Grimaldo, Panama; and German satin, Lithuania.

troops from Lithuanian territory.

Even with this enthusiasm one can
see that he does not bear ill will to-
wards Russians, a popular animosity
that has caused problems in a different
part of the former union for
Kryuchenkova’s family.

They used to vacation ir1 Georgia
(one of the former ﬁfteen republics of
the USSR), but now ethnic violence
against Russians prevents her farni1y’s
return.

When the conversation turned to
W&L’s Honor System, the students
spoke with great pride that they were
able to take part in such a unique sys-
tem.

“A system like this would never
work at home it’s really amazing how
seriously it is taken here,” Japanese
student Daisuke Kusaka says, lower-
ing his voice to emphasize his words.

Kusaka wanted to gain a new per-
spective of his home country by expe-

riencing the completely different ways
of the United States.

As an exchange student from Kansai
Gaidai University in Osaka, he is study-
ing sociology for one year.

With a smile or laugh or a pat on the
back of his friends, Kusaka shows that
he enjoys the company of his new
schoolmates.

Rocio Grimaldo came from Panama
City, Panama to study journalism.

She was very excited because her
parents had just sent her a box full of
her favorite Latin music stars’ cas-
settes that she can put with her Ameri-
can music collection.

She melds the two cultures of
Panama and the USA together and is
comfortable with all people, no matter
what their background.

She and Kryuchenkova have be-
come fast friends, inseparable around
campus.

Being so far away from home, all of

There are great opportunities
Washington, D.C., and many of our U.S. offices. We will be on
campus October 8, 1992 to interview December and May account-
ing graduates interested in our Audit and Business Advisory and
Tax and Business Advisory Services Practices. We will also be at
the Law School Placement Office on October 8, 1992 to interview
December and May graduates with an undergraduate accounting
background who are interested in our Tax Practice. We are hosting
a reception on October 7 at 7:00 pm at the Alumni House. Please
stop by to learn more about us. Contact your appropriate place-
ment office for further details.

Accelerate your career.

. . . like Jennifer Burns, a 1992 Washington and Lee graduate who
joined Arthur Andersen's Washington, D.C. office.

The Arthur Andersen Worldwide Organization provides
professional services in Audit and Business Advisory Services,
Tax and Business Advisory Services and Corporate Specialty
Services to clients through more than 300 locations in 67 countries.

We work with organizations ranging from large multina-
tional corporations to medium and small-sized companies in real
estate, high technology, government contracting, hospitality, and
many other industries.

ARTHUR
ANDERSEN

ARTHUR ANDERSEN &; CO., S.C.

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

waiting for you in

Stay ahead.

the students say they
miss their loved
ones and the famil-
iarity of their old
lives.

Saﬁn especially
misses his sister and
especiallyhis young
niece, whom he vis-
ited right before de-
parting for the
United States.

The discussion
turned to the con-
tinuing Russian oc-
cupation of the
Japanese Kuriie is-
lands, captured in
the closing days of
World War II and
never returned to
Japan.

“I believe that
history is history
and wecan’tchange
v it. We must respect

the generation of
Russians who now
lives on the islands;
I don’t see any rea-
son to give them
back to Japan,”
Kryuchenkova ar-
es.

“I think the Rus-
sians should just keep them; it was the
Japanese who started the aggression,”
Kusaka agreed.

When Grimaldo and Kryuchenkova
walked several miles to Kmart recently
to do some shopping, they were sur-
prised by the reactions of some Ameri-
can students, who were amazed that
they had willingly walked so far.

“Americans are so used to going
everywhere in cars. In Panama we think
nothing of walking, but Americans can
be lazy sometimes when it’s easier to
get in a car,” Grimaldo explained.

With a familiar guitar strain coming
from the living room, all heads craned
to see the Red Hot Chili Peppers on
MTV, followed soon by the attached
bodies dancing in front of the screen.

The talk was finished, but it was
clear that the evening had helped each
student understand the others’ opin-
ions better and respect more other
peoples’ customs and ideas.

6 In

ACROSS
1 Festive
5 Feel one's way

to Happiness

14 Slaughter of

baseball

15 Flaxen cloth
16 Garnet and coral
17 Over all

18 Notions

19 Sts.

20 Does again

22 Manner of

preparing food

24 Slice

25 Vaticinators

26 Abuse

30 Thawed

34 Yoko —

35 Protective mail
37 Probe

38 Animal fat

40 Fathers

42 Control strap
43 Caper

45 Counts calories
47 Play a part

48 Used car deal
50 Fundamental

parts
52 Stores
54 Got the
prize

55 Vacuum

58 Tired looking
62 Cease

63 Wild eseapade
65 Land expanse
66 Stare at

amorously

67 Weary

68 Man

69 Look intently
70 Winter vehicles
71 Noble Italian

family

DOWN

1 Outﬁt

2 Poker stake

3 Lariat part

4 Side

5 Shines brilliantly
6 Frees (from)

7 Small bill

8 Serenity

9 Came after

Colonnade Crossword

@1992 Tribune Media Services, inc.

All Rights Reserved

10 Having thicker

sod
11 Son of Jacob
12 First place
13 Being
21 Halo
23 Angry
25 Tales
26 Large tooth
27 Silly
28 Out of —

(irritable)
29 Surrounded by
31 Not carrying a

weapon
32 Force to move
33 Fender mishaps
36 Lively dance
39 Circle divider
41 Waiters in

charge of wine
44 Thunder sound
46 impure air
49 Builds
51 Hire
53 Woodland path
55 Factory

1

60 Lease

61 Social
engagement

64 Before: pref.

56 Carry on

57 Magazine title
58 Listen to

59 God of war

WLUR weekday radio schedule

Morning Mag (Rock) - Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.

Jazz - Monday, 9 a.m.—11a.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-1 1 :30 a.m.
AM Overture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-1 1 a.m.
Inspirational - Thursday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.; Monday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.
Public Affairs -Monday through Friday, 11 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
Country - Monday through Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.

Dance/Rap - Tuesday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
Rock - Wednesday through Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.

Breakthrough Rock - Monday through Friday, 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Classical Showcase - Monday through Thursday, 6 p.m.-9 p.m.
Third Ear - Monday through Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.

the
Student Activities

presents

Opening Act: Gibb Droll

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2
PAVILION, 8:00 pm

Ticket Sales:
Mon., Sept. 28 — Thurs., Oct. 1.

In Front of Co—Op, $7 in advance
$10 at the door

BEER GARDEN: ID required

Board :1

 

W&L hosts
Congress

candidates

Monday debate
pits Musselwhite
against Goodlatte

By ROBERT Wn.soN
Phi Contributing Writer

W&L students will have achance to
hear and question two candidates run-
ning for Congress from Virginia’s Sixth
District.

Republican Bob Goodlatte, ’77L,
and Democrat Steve Musselwhite will
debate national economic policy is-
sues on Sept. 28 at7p.m. inLee Chapel.

Cottie Miles, president of the Pi
Sigma Alpha politics honor society, a
debate sponsor, said Washington and
Lee is the perfect place for the event.

“We couldn't have asked for a bet-

ter location. Lexington is located in the

center of District 6, right between
Roanoke and Staunton,” Miles said.
“Also, the fact that it is being held on
campus in Lee Chapel gives the stu-
dents access.”

Though the focus of the debate will
be on the economy, Miles said students
will be able to ask the candidates about
any issue.

“I hope that the student body gets

 involved in this and comes out to meet

the candidates and help decide who
will be the next congressman,” Miles
said.

Miles said Musselwhite is the fa-
vorite in the race because Democrats
have held the seat for the past 20 years.

Bob Denton, a politics professor

I from VirginiaPo1ytechnic Institute, will

_ __ moderate the debate. The event is sched-

uled to last about 75 minutes.
Virginia’ s Perot petition committee

" and Contact are also sponsoring the

debate.

Contact will host a public reception
after the debate at the Phi Kappa Sigma
fraternity house.

 
  

  

Photo by W. Patrick Hinety, Washington and Lee

W&L's new faculty members include 11 people in nine departments.

New professors
‘in love with W&L’

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

Freshmen are not the only people
experiencing W&L academics for the
first time. Some professors are, too.

Eleven new faculty members in nine
departments are teaching classes for
the first time here this fall.

“I’m very pleased with my classes
so far,” Professor of Religion Winston
Davis said. “Despite Rush, students
are still prepared."

Davis, a specialist in Japanese Bud-
dhism, taught at six different schools,
including Stanford and Princeton, be-
fore coming to W&L. He has written
two books and several articles on Japa-
nese Buddhism and related topics.

Heather Miller, a new professor of
English, said she is looking forward to
working with her students.

“I ’m very impressed by the quality
of work at the undergraduate level
here,” Miller said.

Miller, who will teach creative writ-
ing, is the author of five novels, a

volume of short prose, four poetry vol-
umes and has had several poems pub-
lished in literary journals. Before com-
ing to W&L, Miller taught a creative
writing program at the University of
Arkansas.

Assistant math professor Douglas
Szajda said he already feels at home at
W&L.

“It’s a lot like my undergraduate
school,” Szaj da, who went to Lafayette
College, said. “It’s a very pretty cam-
pus and everyone seems very friendly.”

Other faculty members new to the
Hill this fall are Hugh Blackmer and
Betty Ruth Kondayan in the University
Library, Evan Bridenstine in the the-
atre department, Agnes Carbrey in the
art department, Malcolm Crystal in
history, Jonathan Filer and David
Jorgensen in geology and Domnica
Radulescu in the romance languages
department.

Miller said W&L is just what she
was looking for.

“I wanted a good school in a good
area with a good writing program,”
Miller said. “I’m in love with W& .”

Post office boxes restricted for safety

By NIKKI MAGAZINER

Phi Staff Writer

If your post office box happens to belocated in the leweri
level of the Lexington Post Office this year, don’t>t_ry to get”?

to it after the main office closes. .

According to Postmaster Larry Creamer, the lower level
boxes will only be accessible to postal patrons from 6 a.m.
to 6 p.m., Monday through Saturday, for safety reasons.

Creamer said the Lexington Police Department recom-
mended the lower level be closed after hours because it is not
visible from the street. This would increase the likelihood
of vandalism to post office property and violent crimes

against postal patrons, Creamer said.

Lexington Police Chief B.M. Beard expressed a concern

over the vandalism.

Beard said someone broke into the annex in the middle
of the night last year and vandalized some of the boxes.

. . Creamer. said that violent crime was also an issue in his
 éldse the ‘lower level.

“No_ rn_o_t_lie_r or father would want their child to be hurt,”

.Ahe saigi,jf,W;g,qlso have to look out for female snidents.”

Creamer said the post office had considered hiring secu-
rity guards to guard the lower level at night but the expense
proved to be too high for the post office budget.

Creamer said although students may not have full-time
access to their boxes, the quality of service to the students
has been increased by moving the boxes to the lower level
from the annex. He said mail will be placed in the boxes

earlier and access to certified mail and packages will be

simplified.

Dirty House?

' Dirty Bathroom?
Dirty Apartment?

Call Linda. at 261-4774.

She can clean for you!

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND
RESUME EXPERIENCE!!
Individuals and Student Organizations
wanted to promote SPRING BREAK,
call the nation ’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-800-327-6013

BBS for IBM Clones!
Call the Bulletin-Board
for Computer Software
from 5pm to 7am seven
days a week. 261-4967

Register to

VOTE NOW

So we don’t have to hear you
complain about it later

Questions?

BIG BROTHER-BIG SISTER-TUTORS

ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
Tuesday, Sept. 29

7:30

University Center 114
Help an underprivileged child in the

community.’

BE THERE!

Brandon Neblett
Julian Smith

463-9767
464-6004

    
   

The Ftlng-tum Phl, September E4»; 19

O

  
 
 

  Harris Teeter

 
 
  

 

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS
 "A"

BREA5 . ,
OUARTERS........ SO

I III-7.:

 
 
 
    
 
  

MEANS Iow PIIIES

REDUCED PRICE 

BETTY CROCKER Q
SPECIALTY POTATOES  I

._.§,._. ,‘_-... .__.~.;_..j,._.._.—-.' —._—-......_...».: -——— -—~—— -»-v — -«- ~ -

  
   
   
   
   
  
    

,-—- -

 

WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER I

DELI-BAKERY
ROAST BEE

STORE BAKED
OR
REGULAR

REDUCED
PRICE

 

 

SLICED TO
ORDER

CO

  

 

STUDENT'S

COURTESY CARD.

E WITH

Harrisreeter :;~;*°~ ._ _

_ Is ou n ’
roua. NAME I I1-otI3'e°IteI:éodIi:e);I. W’ ~— ~—
YOUR ADDRESS _ péTI_.m§,p%¥R?1?II I‘
\OURCl'l'Y.S'IATI-. lllll IMI Hplumoo Mm ., mm

X/X oi/oi/ot
1111111

55: on 2 HOIIISTGGIBI

IT ALLOWS YOU TO

CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER 134

HARRIS TEETER I TRIX CEREAL
  I WITH

GEORGIA, SOUTH  U3,

CAROLINA, NORTH 

CAROLINA, VIRGINIA - 

AND TENNESSEE Iio9oiooo

DIET COKE OR I -

Septemgtr 23 Thru
Se-rtem r29,T992

CA-COLA

VALUABLE 55¢ COUPON

BETTY CROCKER. I,
HAMBURGER HELPER

6.5-8.75. oz. ‘

    

TAKE ADVANTAGE or THIS $1.00 I ‘3l’I.§’I"
COUPON AND SAVE. ii‘-

VALUABLE $I.oo COUPON

I I   I I TOTAL CEREAL

I O I I

I ANY $3.00 on MORE I I WITH

I PURCHASE IN OUR I I $;3;g:3;:, 0,

I FLORAL DEPARTMENT I ;tI.L§°&°:'cP..%;;I;

er 9 I_,_er IsI . .. .
I THIS COUPON MAY NOT 3: REPRODUCED. I I p.."§i."I‘n.§'i§?' I‘”T‘oo.
I LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I I Se Sm r 5;” "W /
OFFER GOOD SEPT. 23 THRU SEPT. 29, I992 segmm Q9/1992 7,-I _
I FLORAL I I io9oiooo  . A __
I  I I ‘9t’t’u‘t” ,, M I ~
'-°° Harrrsreeter ants er “

Prices Effective Throu h September 29, I992 ’ Ii

 

WXZWXTTTTTTJ.‘

VALUABLE 7 5C COUPON .
I2 oz. BOX

    

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday September 23 Throug Tuesday, Sept

Oniy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers.

 

ember 29 1992. In Lexin ton stores

We Gladiy Accept Federa Food Stamps’.'].,.__;7 , "I

   

   
 

.J

VALUABLE 55¢ COUPON" ,
I2 OZ. BOX

          
      
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
         
  
   
  
  

 

  
  

  
  
    
  
 
    
    

  

 
 

'1
I

The Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1992

D

Kupposioﬁlllo

Welcome Back!

23 N. Main St., Lexington

Open Mon.-Sat. 10-5:30

 
   

 

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS
Let us help you get organized with

Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

_ PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX #: 463-6918 lg
1 w. NELSON sr. -LEXING'1'ON,VIRGlNlA- ACROSS FROMTHEPOSTOFHCE

I

O1

COPYRIGHT 1992 - THE KROGER C0.

N0 CCISII?

NOW VOU can USE VOUF M0513 Debit Card, Visa,
Mastercard OI” Discover Card 120 charge
through the line at Kroger.
|t'S easy. It's fast. |t'S convenient.

IMO I119!‘ F1751’ I"I'0lﬂ.'

 

LOW PPCES. And MOVE.

Volleyball comes
close to upset

By MARK S 
Phi Contributing Writer

Inconsistency hounded the Wash-
ingtonandLeevolleyballteamthrough-
out the second armual W&L Invita-
tional. The Generals ﬁnished fourth in
the five-team tournament.

W&L ﬁnished 2-3 for the weekend,
defeating Carnegie Mellon and Wash-
ington and Jefferson. Their losses were
attire hands of Maryville, Sewanee and
Goucher.

Experience is what the Generals
lacked against the defending Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference champi-
ons, Guilford, last night. W&L’s over-
all record stands at 3-4.

W&L started the week off well with
a surprising 15-12, 15-13 victory over
the eventual nrnner-up of the tourna-
ment, Carnegie Mellon.

However, they were unable to draw
on that momentum, and lost to
Maryville in quick fashion, 15-8, 15-9.
Head coach Kristi Yarter said the team
reallycouldn’t get in gear for Maryville.
.“We never really showed for that
match,” said Yarter. “Everything good
that we had established in the first
match against Carnegie Mellon de-
serted us.”

The Generals went on to drop their
next two matches, against Sewanee
and Goucher, each in three games. In
both, W&L managed to win the first
game of the match, only to lose the next
two. Against tournament cham-

_ pion Sewanee, W&L fell 7-15, 15-5,

15-5. In the match versus Goucher,
W&L won the first game 15-12, and
was leading 13-10 in the second. But
Goucher mounted a furious rally to
take the game 16-14. Goucher contin-
ued to roll, taking the third, 15-6.

W&L finished the tournament with
a hard-fought 15-6, 2-15, 15-12 win
over Washington and Jefferson.

The losses showed the Generals’
lack of consistency. Yarter feels the
team needs to relax more.

“We were very inconsistent; very
good at times, very bad at others. The

bottom line is that we need to be more
consistent to win,” said Yarter. “I’m
stressing to the girls to remain calm. If
they stay relaxed and in control instead
of getting tense we can improve tre-
mendously.”

The team did show considerable
improvementinkills and blocking from
the previous weekend’s games at Chris-
topher Newport. Senior Leslie Hess
had a team-high 23 kills in the touma-
ment, while sophomore Jennifer
Garrigus and freshman Catherine Hess
each added 21.

Freshman Chrissy Hart helped so-
lidify the defense by leading the team
in blocks.

“We improved on the two things
that I wanted to: serving and block-
ing,” said Yarter. “Our form and tim-
ing improved on our blocks and we
were much more accurate with our
serves so we were able to cut down on
many of our errors.”

The defense continued to be the
strongest part of W&L’s game. Leslie
Hess ﬁnished the ﬁve games with 68
digs. Garrigus added 65 digs to her
team-leading total of 92 digs this year.
Garrigus is now averaging 4.4 digs per

e.

W&L opened their 1992 ODAC
season with a game at the Warner Cen-
ter against a solid Guilford team. The
defending champs appeared to be over-
whelming favorites on paper. On the
court, it turned into a spectacular con-
test.

The Generals continued their early-
match domination by winning the open-
ing game 15-13. Guilford returned the
favor, 15-11 in the second. W&L took
the third 15-10, and dropped the fourth

15-5.

The two battled back and forth in
the fifth and deciding game. The Quak-
ers pulled the final one out, 15-12.

A tough loss to a heavily-favored
team can do one of two things: crush a
team, or make them stronger.

The team will be put to another test
this weekend as they travel to Maryville
to compete in the Maryville Tourna-
merit.

Water polobsats

0 BROWN, from page

young and deﬁnitely susceptible to
making mistakes of inexperience.

Against the top-ranked team in the
east these mistakes will deﬁnitely cost
you. and they deﬁnitely did.

The young W&L team was over-
whelmed by Slippery Rock, 19-3. The
Generals could not get anything going
offensively against the more experi-
enced squad; on the defensive end,
Slippery Rock’s strength was the key
factor.

This game topped off a roller
coaster-like emotional ride for the

young Generals team. W&L ended
the weekend at a very respectable 2-2,
upping their season mark to 5-2.

They are conﬁdent, however, that
they will bounce back from the two
tough losses and head into the Virginia
State Championships at Richmond on
a strong note.

The Generals will be looking for
their fourth straight crown this week-
end.

The competition will be tough, but
the Generals can go into action know-
ing they have won this tournament
three years straight and have beaten
two Top 20 teams so far.

Classes got you down?

Get or laugh every Thursday from the Phi’s
humor columnists.

  

Best Collection of T-Shirts in Town

Caravans

121 West Nelson Street/464-3500

 

 

 

Last Week:

M Soc-Guilford 6,W&L 3 (2-2)
W SOc- Denison 4, W&L 0 (2-2)
WP- Slippery Rock 19, W&L 3 (5-2)

VB- Guilford 3,W&L 2 (3-5)
CC- M 2nd of 4, W 2nd of 3

@112 ﬂing -tum lﬁlti

SPORTS

   

This Week:

Football-at Centre 9/26
M Soc-Behtany 9/26 1pm;at EMC 9/29

W Soc-RMWC 9/24 4pm;at C. of ND-9/26 .
VB-at Maryville 9/25&26 '
WP-at Va. State Champ. 9/26&27

CC-M at CN C 9/26;W at Dickinson 9/26

PAGE 8

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

SEPTEMBER 24, 199 1‘

By CHRIS SANTORA
Phi Contributing Writer

This past weekend, at the annual
Eastern Water Polo Association
meet at Princeton, N.J., the Wash-
ington and Lee water polo team had
more then their fair share of ups and
downs.

At times the team seemed to be
on fire and totally in sync. Other
times it seemed that the strength of
the highly ranked teams that the
Generals faced seemed impossible
to overcome.

Overall, however, the weekend
was an excellent test for the Gener-
als and showed the team is ready for
the challenges of the rest of the
season.

The Generals opened up against
thepowerful,nationallyranked team
from the University of Massachu-
setts. Not many will forget that less
then one year ago the Generals
shocked UMass in the Eastern
Championships.

“I’ve talked to people who have
been followingthe team and UMass
hasn’t forgotten about us,” said head
coach Page Remillard. “They’ll be
gunning for us.”

His prediction was correct as
UMass overpowered the Generals,
15-7. Senior Chris Hagge led the
Generals with two goals in a losing
effort. Momentum was deﬁnitely

Water polo tops
Brown for first time

against the Generals as they went
into an all-important match with
16th ranked Brown University.

The game against Brown proved
that momentum shifts quickly.
Remillard’s troops pulled together
to defeat the favored team from
Brown. The contest was exciting
from the start as both teams battled
back and forth. The Generals led 9-
5 at the break and held off the hard-
charging team from Rhode Island.
W&L pulled out a 14-12 win.

Junior Greg Golub led all scor-
ers with four goals, while Hagge
and senior Andrew Pearson had
three apiece. Senior P.J. Waicus
had a solid game in goal recording
10 saves. This was the first time
W&L defeated Brown.

The Generals’ next opponent
didn’t have the reputation of their
preceding two adversaries, butnev-
ertheless provided formidable op-
position. Queens College was a
tough match and the Generals didn't
overlook it. The Generals took the
contest 16-12. Hagge, Golub, jun-
ior Jacob Berman and freshman
Rich Cober all scored three goals in
the game. Next up for the Generals
was the number one ranked team in
the nation. ,

The game against Slippery Rock
showed the Generals are still very

[3 See BROWN, pgge, 7

Rolex tennis tourney

comes to W&L again

From Press Release

Washington and Lee will play host
again to the Rolex Southeast Tennis
Championships this weekend.

The tournament, which runs from
Sept. 25-27, is usually attended by a
number of the best Division III pro-
grams in the area.

Both singles and doubles titles will
be on the line, as will a trip to Corpus
Cristi, Texas to compete in the Rolex
National Small College Tennis Cham-
pionships.

Last year, W&L’s own Richard
Yates won the tournament and was
able to compete against players from
other Division III programs from
around the country.

This year, another General will be
one of the favorites.

Junior Robbie MacNaughton, who
will be W&L’s number one player this
season, is expected to challenge for
this year’s title.

MacNaughton had an outstanding

sophomore season, and even pushed
Yates in preseason action. This year,
he’s expected to ﬁll the gap at No. 1 left
by Yates.

A number of colleges from the area
are expected to compete. Players will
be coming from: Washington College,
Averett College, Catholic University
and Christopher Newport. 1 ‘

After this tournament, the Generals
travel to Virginia Tech to take on the
Hokies Oct. 1. It will be the Generals
only fall season match.

After the Hokies, W&L returns
home to host the W&L Fall Classic.
The preseason competition brings in
teams from the Division IH level the
Generals will compete against during
the regular spring season.The two-day
tournament gets underway Oct. 10.

Sportswear company that sells merchandise to fraternities and sororities
is looking for a dynamic and responsible person to be a part-time
representative for your campus. As a member of our salesforce, you will
gain valuble experience for future sales positions. Full training and sales
supplies are provided, along with bonus incentives. Call (800) 336-4486.

Women’ssoccer feels effects of small team

Fatigue sets in during Denison; team faces toughest stretch of schedule

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

When the victorious Big Red of
Denison walked off Liberty Hall Fields
last Saturday, they left behind a beaten
and exhausted Generals squad.

The 4-0 defeat, coupled with
Friday’sfatiguing 1-0 win over Hollins,
taught the Washington and Lee women
not just about soccer, but about them-
selves.

“We learned a lot about how to play
through frustration, that we’re in better
shape than we thought, and not to count
ourselves out,” said head coach Janine
Hathom.

The home stand started off with a
perplexing one goal victory over
Hollins in which the Generals out shot
Hollins 31-0.

Despite their offensive dominance,
the Generals were unable to ﬁnd the
back of the net as Hollins’ goalkeeper
made 17 saves.

“We knew we weren't on, we
weren't finishing,” said Hathom.
“[Hollins] hung in and played really
well."

Sophomore Anne Spruill scored the
lone goal on senior Susan Moseley’s
assist 1:52 into the second half.

“Hollins was much tougher than we
expected and is a good lesson leamed,”
said Hathom, who was surprised at the
effort needed to put away Hollins.
“They left us pretty whooped to come
out and play Denison.”

Against a better than expected

Denison squad, the Generals played
timidly and looked veryuninspired and
fatigued.

“We were intimidated,” said
Hathom, “and when you're tired, the
intimidation grows. Even though
they’re a good team, we sort of gave
them the game.”

Denison controlled the ball for most
of the game, outshooting W&L 32-1.
The powerful Big Red offense beat
freshman goalie Mims Rowe twice in
each half. Rowe stopped 12 shots, but
seemed frustrated and out-of-sync as
three other shots bounced off the cross-
bar.

Injuries forcedtheGenerals, already
ﬁelding a reduced squad, to play with-
out sophomore Jennifer Lynch and jun-
ior Kate Stimeling. Lynch sprained
her right ankle and won’t play for at
least another week. Stimeling’s injured
hip should have healed enough to al-
low the junior to play a limited role in
today’s game against Randolph-Ma-
con College.

The Generals will need to be at their
finest for today’s showdown with the
Yellow Jackets, last year’s Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference tourna-
ment champions. RMC is 5-0 (3-0 in
ODAC) and has outscored their oppo-

' sition 34-1 this season. Last week's 9-
0 triumph over Hollins was capped by
seven assists for Jennifer Kohler, an
NCAA women’s soccer record. Junior
Kathleen Eastland and sophomore
Marina Jackson will need to shut do
the Yellow Jackets’ potent attack fo
the Generals to a chance.

   
  

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Fiing-tum Phi 6'

Junior Allison Lewis wrong-ioots an opposing defender. Lewis Is ’
one of the many who must endure long minutes because of the
small number of players on this year's squad. Unfortunately for the
Generals, the schedule only gets rougher, as they play somg of

 

their main competitors within the next few weeks.

The Generals don ’t receive a break
as they travel to Baltimore on Saturday
to take on a solid College of Notre
Dame (Md.) squad.

They must then prepare for ODAC
foe Roanoke and national powerhouse
Mary Washington College the next
week.

These four games should be a solid
preparation for late October’s ODAC
tourney, but Hathom admits that “we ’ve .

got our work cut out for us.”

“Although it wasn’t expectedbthc
Denison lesson was perfectly planned,”
said Hathom. “It’s the wake up call we

needed.”

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer rounds the final corner on her
way to the finish line. Schaeffer crossed that line with a faster
time than any other W&L woman In history.

Freshman sh

atters CI'OSS._

country course records

From Staff Reports

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer had
a heck of an opening for the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s cross country
team.

Schaeffer competed in her first
intercollegiate race Saturday, and by
the time it was over, she had broken
two records.

“.1 was definitely surprised with out-
come,” said Schaeffer. “I guess it was
one of my best races.”

Schaeffer finished the 3.1-mile race
in 18:5 3.Thattime was 1:43 fasterthan
the course record and :17 ahead of
formerGenerals runnerCecilyTynan’s
all-course record of 19:09, which was
set in 1989.

Schaeffer led from start to ﬁnish.
She forced the main pack of runners to
keep up with her from the opening gun,
but they weren’t able. Schaeffer trotted
to the finish line all by herself.

Another freshman, Amy Mears, also
topped the old course record by finish-

ing with a time of 20:41.

Sophomore Kim Herring ﬁn-
ished third for the Generals.

Despite the good times, W&I.
fell to perenial powerhouse Mary
Washington, but beat Sweet Briar
and Sheperd.

Schaeffer says she’s not used to
the hills around the course, but be-
lieves she can run better. In fact,

Schaeffer says that she’s rim a bet-. I

ter race.

“In high school we only raced
three miles instead of the 3.1 miles.
and I ran a faster time.”

Well, if she can rim a faster time,
the Generals are looking at a real
possibility of challenging Mary.
Washington.

But Schaeffer says that she
doesn’t feel any reason to put any
extra pressure on herself just be-
cause of one race.

“I’m just going to do the best I
can,” said Schaeffer. “I’m just go-
ing to run my best.” ’

Satin Shoes dyed in 1 hour

Downtown Lexington
3 West Nelson
M-F 9:30-5:30

464-6666
Sat. 8:00-12:00

Don’t miss the Phi’s
special Homecoming
Supplement next
week

 

Get a new image...ln A Flash

 

20x30 COLOR PHOTO POSTER
$24.95 WITH COUPON

 

FROM YOUR 55MM COLOR NEGATIVE

    

POSTERS FROM SLIDES OR PRINTS ALSO AVAILABLE

14 E. Campbell Ave. -

Roanoke

, VA 24013

1-800-537-5227 ,

 

 
 
  
  

v\5*"'.ixc¢° ,“.i-.u

Gg:'=gqIE“

cl”

Approval absolutely guaranteed so

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON ‘TODAY

 

No credit
no security deposit!

Photo & Video Imaging
,Do You Wnt VISA 3. Masercard redlt Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the worid...Visa® and MastcrCard®
credit cards.."in your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA!‘ and MasierCard0 the credit cards you
deserve and need for— ID-—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
ST 0RES—1‘UiTlON—ENTERTAi NM ENT-
EMERGENCY CmSH—TiCKE1S—RESTAURAN'i’S—
HOfI‘ELS—-MOTEL$—GAS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

 

SIGNATURE

NOT‘!-2 Mastacnrd is a registered trademark d Mastcmhrd intemationnl. inc.
Visa is a registered trader-mrlr nfViSA USA. Inc and Visit lnienational

Set-was Asaucidion.

- STITDENF EERVICESIBOX l792ll»PLANTATl0N.FL 3331 :
 twamvrsno/MAsrr«:RcARDe_> Credit :
Cards. Enclosed find $5 which is 100% refundable if not I
approved immediately. I

I

NAME :
ADDRESS .
CITY STATE ._ ZIP I
PHONE SS.” .
I

I

I

I

.!

  

100°/o GUARANTEED!

Don’t miss a
thing! ,

Subscribe
to the

Phi. .
Send $30
to the

office ‘

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
   
     
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   

