r pool player.

THE umvrsnsirv usmnv

WASHINGTON a. LEE umvmgm,

LEXINGTON. VA 2446!)

EEB1ugggi’

THE SEASON or Love

W&L Men Share Their Wishes
For A Perfect Valentine’s Day

0

Miracle Finish

Last Second Basket

Keeps Generals’

Tournament Hopes Alive

he ‘ilting-tum iﬁlti

VOLUME 92, NO. 18

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

a
No Vote Ashby
Ames 5°” _ William
Hutton Tompkins T0195
489 664 354

O

 

EC President

    

No Vote Reggie

Bill

Chappell

549
EC Vice President SCC President
1185 ballots cast PC

  

C0“? 202 EC Secetary

 

Experience counts

Tompkins, Kull, Hackney win EC spots

. g By MOLLY AFTER
Phi Contributing Writer

Second-year law EC Rep. Bob Tompkins de-
feated junior Ames Hutton by 175 votes to win the
post of Executive Committee president Monday.

Tompkins garnered 664 votes to Hutton’s 489.
TlQ;re were 31 people not voting and one write-in
ballot for junior Andrew Schneider.

Tompkins said his experience on the EC will _

smooth the transition to a new committee.
“Because so much of what goes on is passed

down, [having] that continuity will make our work '

much more consistent,” Tompkins said.
Olunior Jimmy Kull beat second-year law stu-
» dent James Rambeau 569 votes to 534 for the vice
presidential spot. Six students cast write-in votes
for junior Joe Ramseur and 76 did not vote.
Kull, currently a junior EC representative, also
cited experience as an asset to the next EC.
“Last year there were only four of 13 members

4;

with experience,” Kull said. “There was a lot of
hesitiation during budget allocations and appoint-
ments because we didn’t understand how the sys-
tem worked.

“Hopefully [we] will be able to use our experi-
ence to guide EC members in these two processes,”
Kull said.

Junior EC Rep. Ashby Hackney defeated junior
Maurice Cole and first-year law student William

Toles with a total of 578 votes to become secretary.
Toles received 364 votes and Cole got 202, with 41
students not voting.

Hackney said he has confidence in next year’s
president and vice president. ‘

“Bob’s really well spoken, and he listens well,”
Hackney said. “[Jimmy] is really responsible. I
don’t see any conflicts at all.”

Also, second-year law student and incumbent
Reggie Aggarwal narrowly defeated junior Bill
Chappell to win a second term as Student Conduct
Committee chairman. Aggarwal got 584 votes to
Chappell’s 549, with 52 not voting.

W

 

‘Here he comes, Mr. W&L!

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring~tum Phi

Freshman Pat McKenna scams his way to victory in the Mr. W&L contest Wednes-
-day. McKenna, who was sponsored by Kappa Alpha Theta, displayed his repertoire
of pick-up lines, such as, “Do you have any Irish in you? Would you like some?”

-Billiard and burrito bonanza

New hangout
to offer pool

By JAMESON LEONARDI
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee students may soon
fwd themselves behind the eight ball with
the opening of a new pool hall.

Sharks is located at 18 E. Nelson St., the

 

Ready
for the border?

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 11, 1993

Students rally for prof

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

In the movie “Dead Poets Society,” stu-
dents distraught over the firing of their favor-
ite professor stood on their desks, exclaiming
“O Captain! my Captain!” in protest.

Last week, the Walt Whitman phrase ap-
peared onposters along theColonnade. Wash-
ington and Lee students were protesting the
English department’s decision not to offer a
tenure-track position to Instructor John Lynch.

“I think that the main point [of the protest]
is to show support for Professor Lynch, and
to let [other students] be aware of what is
going on,” sophomore English student Stacy
Donovan said Feb. 4.

Donovan was one of about 30 students
who protested Friday by wearing black and
sitting on the lawn in front of Payne Hall.

Lynch said he was moved at the sight of
the signs.

“I was touched that students could think
such things about me,” Lynch said. “It’s
hard. I was in tears more than once while
walking around campus.”

Lynch, who was hired two years ago for a
temporary, non—tenure track position, was a
finalist in the search to fill a tenure-track
post, Professor of English Edwin Craun said.

But though a 10-member student commit-
tee overwhelmingly preferred Lynch for the
opening, the English faculty recommended
another candidate.

Craun said he would not release the iden-
tity of the candidate because she has not yet
responded to the job offer.

For the past month, the English depart-
ment has been narrowing the national search
to fill a position vacated by Professor Sidney
Coullin g two years ago.

Craun said ‘W&L'ihired Lynch for a non-
tenure track, two-year position after the first
search for a tenure-track professor proved
unsuccessful. ’

Craun said Lynch was hired with the un-
derstanding that the tenure-track job would
reopen this year. A tenure-track position is
one where the insructor teaches for six years
before being evaluated for tenure.

Last fall, W&L begana new search. Craun
said a four—member faculty search commit-
tee narrowed down about 350 applicants to
four, one of whom was Lynch.

Craun said candidates were evaluated
based on strength of writing, strength of
teaching and the potential of the applicant to
be an effective member of the university. He
said these qualities are also the basis for
tenure and salary evaluations.

Craun said that because of recent state
education funding cuts, the job market for
English professors was exceptionally com-
petitive this year.

“We aim for the top people,” Craun said.
“There was a backup of very strong candi-
dates. [The department] had more trouble
making decisions at every stage of the pro-
cess than we have ever had before.”

Lynch and the three other candidates were
asked to come to campus to teach a class for
the English department faculty and 10 se-
lected students.

Craun said the students were asked to
observe each candidate’s teaching and sub-
mit evaluations to help the faculty in their

. Photo by Richard Peltz, The Ring-tu Phi‘

English Instructor John Lynch listens to senior Scott Howe Wednesday in a

class on Victorian thought.

decision. The student group chose Lynch.

But when the English students found out
that Lynch was not offered the position, the
protests began.

Some students said they were upset be-
cause they thought the faculty ignored the
opinions of the student committee.

“Who are the better judges—the people
who sit in their offices or the people who sit
in classes?” freshman John Branam said.

But Craun said that while teaching is the
most important factor, there are other con-
siderations in choosing a professor.

Dean of the College John Elrod agreed
that the faculty should have more weight in
the decision than students.

“W&L is a teaching institution,” Elrod
said. “There is no one more acutely aware of
this than the faculty. The faculty’s job is to
perpetuate itself. They are driven by the
same motivations as the students.”

And one of the lessons students learned
from Lynch was how to pursue what they
believe in.

“Part of what I teach is that students
should think for themselves,” Lynch said.
“[Students should] ask their own questions
and take their education into their own hands.”

Lynch said last week was an important
educational situation for his students, be-
cause they were compelled to ask the ques-

tions they needed to ask.

Students wrote letters to academic deans
and English faculty members in tribute to
Lynch’s unique teaching style.

“Lynch epitomizes open-mindedness,”
junior Kate Stimeling said. “He is diversity.”

Though there were few students still wear-
ing black on Monday, the signs and senti-
ments of disappointment remained

Elrod said the “O Captain! my Captain!”
allusion to Dead Poets Society demonstrated
how much the students cared, but said the
comparison is not appropriate.

“In the movie, the professor is leaving
because the institution is behaving incor-
rectly,” Elrod said. “I didn’t like that. W&L
has behaved correctly.” -

Elrod said that if the candidate who has
been offered the job declines, the decision
will be reconsidered by the English. depart-
ment.

But he said the opinions of protesters
would not affect any reconsideration.

“We have to stay on course,” Elrod said.
“We have to do what we were going to do, as
if the students hadn’t done what they did.”

But the decision leaves Lynch deprived of
what he calls “the shape of my whole life.”

“I think that for me, in the end, teaching is
my whole life,” he said. “What matters to me
is that my teaching matters to my students.”

to run

By GREGORY PA1‘rERsoN

Phi News Editor

former location of Hunter and Huntress. It
is owned and operated by Lynne Abbott,
and is scheduled to officially open on Feb.
16, but Abbott said she may open as soon
a_§Friday.

“The only thing that can prevent us
from opening on Friday is not having the
handicapped bathrooms installed,” Abbott
said. “Everything else is ready for us to
open this weekend.”

Sharks will feature five pool tables,
e ectronic darts, basketball, air hockey,
pinball, video games and a snack bar, Abbott
said.

There will also be a special pool table
that can be reserved by members of “Club,
Shark” only. The membership fee is $10
and the table will cost $10 per hour to rent.

“It’s a I00-year-old regulation-size pool
t9ole,” Abbott said. “It’s for the serious

“This concept cuts out a lot of people
who only want to play one game of pool,”
Abbott said. “It’s also good for dates be-
cause it’s a real drag to have a date and have
to wait for a pool table.”

One thing Sharks will not have, how-
ever, is a beer or liquor license.

“Not having a liquor license was part of
our use permit,” Abbott said. “We had no
choice. We couldn't open with a liquor
license. Besides, The Bone is 50 feet away
if people want to have a drink.”

Abbott plans to market Sharks prima-
rily to Lexington’s young people, espe-
cially the college-age crowd.

“I want to cultivate the college crowd,”
Abbott said. “I want Sharks to become a
W&L and VMI hangout. I believe that a
town of 4,000 college students needs a
place to play pool.”

future.”

Taco Bell is coming to Lexington.

The Mexican fast food restaurant plans to
open a franchise in Lexington across from Stone-
wall Square shopping center on Route 60 byJune
1, according to Taco Bell consultant Lee Garvin.

“Lexington is an interesting place. It had a
tremendous number of tourists in 1992, and it has
two colleges and a stable population,” Garvin
said. “It’s a good place to be now and in the

The owner of the Lexington franchise,
BurgerBusters Inc. of Charlottesville, has a con-
tract to purchase the land across from Long John
Silver’s and Woody Chevrolet, Gamer said.

Gamer said the sale of the land is contingent
on working out “a couple of engineering matters
and a matter with [the Viginia Department of
Transportation],’’ but said the deal should be
closed by April 1.

The current owner of the land, Charles W.
Barger, said the students should not set their
hearts on the June 1 date.

“Their target is June,” Barger said. “But the
waythings work, realistically it mi ghtnot be here
until [students] come back in the fall.”

W&L
to allow
filming

By MOLLY APrER
Phi Contributing Writer

Students might hear cries of
“lights, camera, action” at W&L
this spring.

University offi ials have
agreed to allow Ca rgo Films
of Paris to film “The Foreign
Student” at Washington and Lee.
However, the production com-
pany has yet to decide if they will
use the W&L campus in the
movie.

Film crews would shoot here
for only about five days at the
end of March, W&L Director of
Communications Brian Shaw
said.

Photo by Richard Peltz, The F?/'ng—tum Phi

Hammers away

“We haven’t heard deﬁnitely
that they are going to shoot in
Virginia,” Shaw said. “They were

Kappa Alpha member Thomas Kennedy works on
renovations to the Rockbridge Area Free Clinic Satur-
day. Kennedy said fraternities, VMI cadets and other
volunteers are working to cut renovation costs.

in North Carolina last week, look-
ing at other locations.”

The majority oflilming would
eoneeutrztte on shooting areas like

U see MOVIE, page 5

 

 

  
   

 

PAGE 2

Elite filing-tum iﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

i i - ' Q
Ddyamssn.

The Big Four results are in. The good news is that all the
candidates this year were real people (Mickey Mouse didn’t
campaign). The bad news is that many of the candidates might as
well have been the same person.

This year’s races were dominated by incumbents. There were
only three challengers to six incumbents. The race for the two
highest offices, Executive Committee president and vice presi-
dent, included only current EC members.

We can’t help but attribute the shortage of challengers to the
early elections. We have said in this column before that the Student
Body Constitution never intended that elections be held before
February break, and by deviating from that wise intent, the EC
might have limited the race.

The contest for president was particularly disappointing. We
would never endorse a knockdown-dragout debate in which
candidates attack one another’s sexual histories. But maybe a little
disagreement? Tompkins and Hutton would do nothing but en-
dorse one another. For voters, it was like choosing between
Channin and White Cloud. You could only tell the difference by
squeezing. .

But students must accept some of the blame for this year’s quie
race. The turnout of less than 1,200 would be impressive for a
developing country where the people have to take boats to the
polling places, but for our small, intellectual community nestled
among Virginia’s mountains, 1,200 is pathetic.

Wake up and smell the decaf, people! Elections are the one time
during the year when public officials show up at your door to be
directly accountable to you. When general elections roll around
next month, please vote.

Let the hunt begin

The smell of love —— and sweat —— is in the air. The scent of the
hunt

Man sees woman. Man evaluates woman as FD date. Man gets
shot down.

Woman sees man. Woman evaluates man as FD date. Woman
decides she’d rather go with her best friend.

Imagine going to the FD ticket table and asking about a stag
ticket.

“Virginia,” the woman at the table shouts across the room.
“This one wants a stag ticket. What’s our policy?"

The eyes of every other person in the room are boring into your
skull. You don’t have a date. You are a'loser. " ‘ ‘ ' 

Ah, thejoys of the FD season. S" “7"”"'”“A" "'1" O A H

So, do you have a date yet?

Chill out. We don't either.

Make a run

The border just got closer.

At long last, Taco Bell, the icon of fast “Mexican” food, has
announced plans for a Lexington outlet, where all W&L students
will be able to drown their taste buds in hot —— or mild — picante
sauce.

We have just three words.

Gracias a Dios.

Quote of the Week

‘I love tenure because I can be a lousy teacher and still know I’ m
getting paid next week.
—— Journalism Professor Hampden H. Smith

   
     
   
   
   

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 1 1, 1993

 

gag  was .. .

.r’;:r.. SEE year: 1% Htriaarls

Arlb Katee your FWK 85-i€I".;‘{‘i",l'314't{<3,S", ,
A929 A seas-
garoc-2'£ ?<’:>9t€ 0 ,

Radio waves create Third House

WASHINGTON —— Call me crazy
as Ross Perot, but long ago I had this
fantasy about a new Third House of
Congress.

Unlike the Senate and the House of
Representatives, there would be no
elections to this new “People's Body.”

send troops to Bosnia was somewhat
sharper.”

You bet it would be. Anyway, be-
fore I go any further with this, let me
happily announce that my long-ago
fantasy has come true. With no help
from the Founding Fathers, the Ameri-

 
 
 
   

The only en- can people
trance re- have cre-
quirement CHRISTQPHER ated this
would be a wonderful
peculiar MATTHEWS delibera-
dress code. . , tive body
Whatlhadin Tribune Media of their
mind —— Services own: call-
please stay in radio.

with me a Wantto

moment on this — were those raffish
costumes we remember from movie
classics like “A Tale of Two Cities.”

If you want to talk like a revolution-
ary, I figured, it would be fair to make
you ‘dress like one.

Actually, the proposed late-l8th
century dress code would serve two
practical purposes: 1) it would limit
attendance to what I am sure would
quickly become the No. 1 tourist at-

. traction in Washington _to those who _
I were truly passionate; 2) it would’
i create some marvelous videotape for

the eveningnetworknews.Irnagine how,
we'd all sit each evening through the
narcoleptie hum of Senators Mitchell,
Sasser and Byrd just to catch that day’s
pageantry from the Peoplc’s Body.
“Elsewhere on Capitol Hill, reac-
tion to President Clinton's decision to

sound off on the topic de jour? Add
your motley voice to the charcoal grey
of the U.S. Senate, the latest yodeling
of Ohio Congressman Jim Traficant?
Your ticket of admission sits as near as
the handiest telephone. Want to send
Zoe Baird to the guillotine? Keep gays
outofthe military—-orletthem in? No
election is required. No dress code.
The number is . . . And don't think the
other houses of Congress aren’t listen-
. ing to this new “*Peoplc’s Body” of the
airwaves. ~  V
“It seems to me that one of the
messages of the l992presidential cam-
paign,” Republican leader Bob Dole
said on the Senate floor last week, “is
that the people have finally ﬁgured out
how to penetrate the steel curtain that
has too long surrounded presidential
campaigns. Voters voted for access,

by picking up the phone, turning on
theirradios and TVs and, in some cases,
talking directly to the candidates.”
Dole, himself a grandmaster of the
sarcastic sound-off, pointed out that
not everybody likes what they hear out
there. The backers of Bill Clinton

cheered, he said, when the Democratic I

candidate successfully used programs
like “Larry King Live” to win the elec-
tion. Now, when the radio waves reso-
nate with a nastier attitude toward their
man, Clintonophiles take a different
view of call-in. Last year, talk radio
and television represented a “hi gh-tech
breakthrough.” This year, the airwaves’
action over gays in the military is dis-
missed as “a bunch of radio windbags
rallying an audience of kooks.”

Fair enough. But there’s a differ-
ence between using radio and TV call-
in programs to communicate with the
people, even as a sounding board. It’s
another to think that those calling in
constitute a random sample of Ameri-
can opinion. ACNN-Gallup poll asked
people if they approve of ending the
ban on gays in-the service. Forty-three
percent said they did,»5O percent said-
they didn't. ANewsweek poll showed
the public tilting the other way: 53
percent said homosexuals should be
able to serve, 42 percent said they
shouldn't.

Does this closeness of opinion reg-
ister in the raging call-in lines? I doubt
ll.

Still, the power of this new, elec-

tronic Third House of Congress is pro-
viding a helpful reality check for the

older two. up _

Case in point: Zoe Baird’s nomina-
tion to be the country’s chief law en-
forcement official was a sure pre—inau—
gural bet. That’s before the call-in
phones started screaming, “Off with
her head!” I

And what about Iran-gate? Eighl
years ago, Ronald Reagan sat in the
Oval Office, cheerily trail-bossing his
plan to sell arms to Iran in exchange for
release of our hostages held in Leba-
non. How did the “Great Communica-
tor” find himself so isolated from man-
on—the-street feelings about such a hug
miliating, suicidal payoff‘?

In his about-to-be-published mem-
oirs, George Shultz offers a clue.
Reagan, his secretary of state surmised,
convinced himself that, paying tribute
to American—hating terrorists somehow
squared with American honor. Once‘,
Reagan had this “script” of his com-
mitted to memory, Shultz believes, he
was a prisoner of his own disastrous

. COUISC.

We can only speculate what the. F

' callers to Larry King or Rush Limbaugh

would have said about this “script.’.’.
But what if word of the anns-for-hos-
tages deal had leaked out beforethe
fact? It's a good bet the telephone lines
would have sizzled and Ronald Reagan
could have been saved from catastro-
phe.

© 1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc. ' .

Administration slides away from promises

‘ of the Office of "

Ellie iﬁing-tum iﬁlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Grcgory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulatibn Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. Advertising does not ieﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON — In his first radio address from
the Oval Office, President Clinton said that “for the
last 12 years our leaders haven’t completely leveled
with us.” Make that 13.

Clinton and his team, who used the transition to
repudiate or blur campaign premises, have used their

become a promise that the tax increase on the middle
class will come after the increase on the wealthy.
Sympathetic news reports say Clinton has “dis-
covered” that there are not enough wealthy people to
pay the govemment’s expenses. Time out.
Is he or is he not the intellectual “policy wonk,”

first weeks inpower - the voracious reader of
to slide away from data, the unsleeping stu-
the most important GEORGE WILL dent of American soci-
pledge madeduring . etythathyperventilating
the transition. In Washington Post journalists have de-

his confirmation
hearing as director

 

Writers Group

scribed? If he is just
discovering that the

Management and Budget, Leon Panetta endorsed a
deficit reduction ratio of two-thirds spending cuts to
one-third tax increases. “Unrealistic” is now the
word from Panctta’s former Democratic colleagues
in Congress. A realistic guess may be that the ratio
of tax dollars raised by tax increases to dollars cut
from spending will be at least 10 to one.

A pitched battle, we are told, rages within the
administration between two factions, one wanting
tax increases to cut the deficit, the other wanting
spending to stimulate the economy. The predictable
compromise will be: Taxes up, spending up, the
deficit up.

The economy is growing; unemployment, which
never got as high in the recent recession as in many
others, is falling; productivity growth in 1992 was at

_ a 20-year high; and there is the stimulus of a $320

billion deﬁcit.

Yet the administration wants another $31 billion
stimulus for the $6 trillion economy. Why? That is
what “New Democrats,” like old ones, do: They try
to micromanage an economy moved by billions of
private decisions daily.

The promise of a rniddle-class tax cut has been
supplanted by a search for slightly disguised ways of
raising taxes on the middle class, as with an energy
tax. Clinton says: “Before Iask working Americans
to work harder and pay more, I will ask the economic
elite . . .” The operative word is “before.” The
campaign promise of a middle—class tax cut has

middle class has most
of the money in America, a reassessment of him is
called for.

hotly controversial, will be a party document from
the start. Not smart.

The loudly trumpeted first fruit of Democratic’
hegemony over both political branches of the gov-
emment is the Family and Medical Leave Act. This
is an cxampleof what can be called “mandate liber-
alism”: If the government is strapped for funds,
make the private sector spend. It must have a
depressing effect on job creation (especially the
hiring of young women). Firms covered by the ac?
must pay the full health insurance costs of on-leave
workers, as well as the costs of any temporary
replacement workers hired until the regular workers
return from leave (up to 12 weeks annually, which
can be taken intermittently).

And this act probably is just the thin edge of an

Another reputation that has risen high without
much ballastofevidenee may have
to be revised. Mrs.Clinton maybe
as prodigiously intelligent and
competent as numerous news re-
ports say. But so far she has been
conspicuously involved in two
matters, neither of which is reas-
suring.

One was —- is ——- the personnel
selection process that has been so
ludicrously skewed by ethnic, ra-
cial and sexual quotas. (This pro-
duced the several train wrecks in-
volving the office of attorney gen-
eral.) The other is health care
reform, the substance of which is
a long way off but the merchandis-
ing of it is already a substantial
mistake.

The administration —- mean-
ing, we must in this case assume,
Mrs. Clinton — has decided that
the Democratic National Commit-
tee will raise money for a staff to
coordinate a campaign for the plan, when there is a Those who promised
plan. pletcly level with us.

So the plan, which is certain to be complex and

Congress may next man-
date that family and medi-
cal leaves be paid. Al-
ready there are “fairness”
complaints: This year’s
act is “unfair” to those
who can’t afford to take
unpaidleaves. Mandated
paid leave is probably
what Rep. Maxine Waters
(D-Calif.) envisions when
she says, cryptically, that
this year’s act begins “a
chain ofnewpossibilities.”

4

enormous wedge. Congress may next mandate tha?

family and medical leaves be
paid. Already there are “fair-
ness” complaints: This year’s
act is “unfair” to those who
can’t afford to take unpaid
leaves. Mandated paid leave
is probably what Rep. MaxineQ
Waters (D-Calif.) envisions
when she says, cryptically, that
this year’s act begins “a chain
of new possibilities.” When
Clinton was asked about man-
dating paid leave, he said, omi-
nously, “Let’s take this one.
step at a time.” Translation:
Unpaid leave is just the first
step.

Critics say the
administration's early actions
show that it lacks sufficient
adult supervision. Actually, it .
is off to a ﬂying start at fulfill-
ing the traditional destinies of
old-fashioned Democrats.
‘new Democrats” didn't com-

© 1993 Washington Post Writers Group

LETTERS "
Student praises Sally Mann feature
Sally Mann’s work can no more be Garden °f Ede“ than anﬁhing 5159- A judge such a delicate issue? 0

To the Editor,

I am appalled to see that so few of
you can distinguish between art and
pornography! According to Webster’s
Dictionary, pornography is obscene lit-
erature, photographs, paintings, etc. in-
tended to cause sexual excitement.
Madonna and some of today’s pop
artists could be termed pomographic.
Do we attempt to discourage them?

called pornographic than can Greek
statues. (I assume most W&L students
know that these statues are of nudes.)
Nudity does NOT necessarily mean
pornographic; in fact, artists through-
out history have reveled in the beauty
of the human form an natural. Sally
Mann’s photos portray the innocence
of childhood. They are more about the

Yes, I suppose one COULD say
Sally is to an extent using her children.
This is however another issue, and one
which in my view is entirely a private
affair.

For those who have expressed the
belief that these photos are detrimental
to the children, I have one question: Do
you know the family well enough to

In any case, the issue here is one of
art or pornography as Nikki Hodurski
put it. Are her photos art? Yes, in fact
they show considerable talent and de-
serve recognition not seem. I applaud
the Phi for its efforts to support a local
artist.

Kathryn Noel Barbour, ’93

 

heﬁing-tum Phi, February 11, 1993

l

‘ o the Editor:

On Jan. 12, 1993, I wrote a short
etter to The Ring-tum Phi which ex-
ressed my displeasure with the cur-
en attitude of the left wing at Wash-
.4 gton and Lee. While this subject

atter may sound quite controversial
4 d“touchy,” it actually was not. The
xplicit purpose of my letter was to
v hastise those people who tore down

structive and intellectual campus but
my pleasurable outlook soon turned
downward when I received a threaten-
ing letter in my mailbox on Jan. 25,
1993, four days after its publication.
F.L.I.N.T —A.L.B chapter#19 sent
me aterrorist style threat informing me
that they “play for keeps” and that they
“will not stop” and that
conservatives should

wrote of his fear for the lack of diver-
sity on campus. In the wake of this
“horriﬁc” episode, I must agree with
his message and take it one step for-
ward. Not only do we have a lack of
intellectual and cultural diversity, but
we have a lack of desire to change the
situation.

- The left wing is

‘ OPINION

Republican receives threatening letter

comer, watching my every move, wait-
ing for their opportunity to pounce?
In addition to federal responsibili-
ties, I feel that I have social duties as
well. Through some close friends of
mine in conservative circles, this epi-
sode may be publicized in several na-
tional magazines. Due to the recent
trend of liberal movements on college
campuses, many newspapers and maga-

Kathekon

Kathekon, W&L’s student

 

Needed

Dance choreographer for spring
term musical production at the
Lenfest Center. Questions? Call

, _  . 4 supposedly based _ _ alumni association, will accept ap- .
igns ‘of the College Republicans of hewat-e_ Thetette, was    3 . upon progression and zines like the Wall Street Journal love plicatioris for membership begin— Pr0f- Martinez at453'3002 0r 453'
, zsiéhington and Lee University. Ifo- not wntten but’ rather,  . . hf  i ,-egg change but recent to hear of stories and scandals such as rung Friday. Kathekon member- 3005-
' u d my attack with this fact clearly pasted together with ‘  events have proven to this to report to the nation. ship is open to rising juniors and
ttated and I explained my Contempt for letters from newspa- qt ,.,.,__. wd t,-5  me that some rnern- Once in a while, everyone reaches a seniors. Applications will be avail-
those people who would sink to such pets_ntagaz;nes,etc_ tn ,  V -1 . W.’ bers of the hbetai so- point of ultimate resolution. A point able at the Alumni Office and out-
‘juvenile tactics” in order to oppress order to try to attain ""- “l "C “Q 3' ciety have lost sight whereallviewsandvisions,allthoughts sideCarolCalkins’off"ice;thedead- S 
: other viewpoint. I made the argu- some 50,-t offeat-fult-C- *5 ‘ms; 3  ._ of their own doctrine and feelings, allpleasures and disgusts line for applications is March 5. p
rnentthat theliberal Contingent like-5 t0 sporise from me. Un— -- I "i . 1 .. _ ' _ .- and of the mission of come into focus. This point brings Sign-up sheets for interviews will In celebration of Black History
‘ride themselves upon tolerance and fortunately for  timéﬁmigimas’ our nation. about different responses in each per- be available in the University Cen- Month, Ms. Faye Wattleton, former
derstanding, when they do not have 1:'_L.1_N_T’ their at-  .3.-,.ng;s _,~t-,-to no Icould ramble for— son,but the end resultshould alwaysbe ter. president of Plarmed Parenthood,
enough faith in their own beliefs to tempt at fear only '=' i " '7" everabouttherernorse progress. will speak Feb. 24 at 8 p.m. in Lee
ﬁeeept 3 Challenge Of their th°“8ht5- prompted anger and s§g1?“.__ t \ < and pity I feel for the On Jan. 25 1 realized that many Chapel.
NOW. I hoped that my letter had ex‘ disgust. I grew angry it " F.L,I,N,T organiza- actions couldcauseregression butlam  t
Pressed 3 eleer 0Pir1i0h based “Port as I read each passage tion but I have a dif- determined to Dre-Vent Such an CataS- S

thought, contemplation, and that it

’ could appeal to an audience with the

sanQe attributes. Upon its publication,

' a week after its submission mind you,

several people approached me on the
_Hill and at parties to thank me for

 

of the pasted parable
and thought that some
person is actually ignorant enough to
threaten another. I grew disgusted as I
looked beyond the words and realized
that there are citizens of Washington

ferent message to
peddle. After show-
ing the threatening letter to a few of my
colleagues, they advised me to contact
the post office and other federal au-
thorities. The reason is that sending

trophe. F.L.I.N.T will have to learn
about honor and true progress one way
or the other. I hope it takes the high
road and admits to its heinous act of
ignorance.

Brown/Burgundy Ann Taylor
Suede jacket with a hood. If found
please call Lisa at 464-3662.

Alumni Job

Seniors who wish to be consid-
ered for W&L’s Alumni Staff As-

ehallehgirrg the “5elf‘Pr°elairhed 0m‘ and Lee who do not possess enough threats via mail isafederal offense and Sincerely.  '    sociate position in 1993-94 should
r1iP0ter1t liberal m0Verher1t" Of the eel‘ intellect, enoughpride,orenough faith, punishable by law. I mean, how am 1 Paul E. Wright. ’95 g' a apply by March 1. Graduating se- i
leg 50eiet)’- At this P°iht 1telt°Pti' to accept the other viewpoints of this supposed to feel safe knowing that Press Secretary and Spokesman springterrn oourseofferings will niors should submitaletter ofapp1i—

I mis '0 about the future Of Sueh 3 e°rt‘ world. In a past Phi, Evan Knisley F.L.I.N.Tmaybelurking around every College Republicans be on the Liberty “gopher” by Fri- Cation and resume to James Farrar

.4"

, Student lauds Lynch

To the Editor:

‘ Good teaching is not telling students what
to ﬂlink about literature. Rather, it is causing
students to respond to literature and help them
discover what they themselves think. It is just
such teaching which will be lost with the pass-

‘ ing of John Lynch from the face of Washington

and Lee University.

Ihave known the teaching of this man for the
shckt period of six weeks. But in that time I
have come to experience stimulating work in its
finest hour. It is, as I have said, teaching which

causes students to respond to literature so that.

they might form their own opinions and ideas as
they read. In our Victorian Thought class we
have had wonderful discussions and arguments.
Wpdo not sit as machines and transcribe words
to a page in a process devoid of creative thought

and imagination. In this class we can come

together and be human  talking about how we
feel and what we see. This is an experience
which I appreciate fully with every class and
will value far beyond my days at W&L.

‘As well, let me say that I have come to know
few teachers whose loyalty and allegiance to
his students is so visible. Both in word and deed
John Lynch has made clear that above all things

he is here for the students. It has been said that: 2
Washington and Lee is a,‘.‘teaching institution” —
whosetmission focuses on the students.’ It is I 
mqde clear in the Mission Statement: “The-

University recognizes teaching as its central

1 function. It believes that the personal associa-

’ Bob Dunlap and his concessions staff, and finally to
the spectators who came out in droves to show their

tion of its students with a highly qualified and
motivated faculty holds the greatest promiseof
inspiring in them a respect and thirst for knowl-
edge that will continue throughout their lives.”
If such things be so, then I can think of no better
place for John Lynch.

However, we have found out that Professor
Lynch will be leaving us at the end of this year
due to circumstances beyond his, or our, con-
trol. I am sorry for this. But I do not feel so
sorry for myself as I do for the classes of
students to come, who will not have the oppor-
tunity to experience his teaching. However,
lcnowing of this loss has made it a difficult time
for the many students who have come to know
Professor Lynch. The words of William
Wordsworth might be welcomed in the day
when we look back upon our days with Lynch:
“Though nothing can bring back the hour / Of
splendour in the grass, of glory in the ﬂower; /
We will grieve not, rather find / Strength in
what remains behind; /In the primal sympathy
/ Which having been must ever be; / In the
soothing thoughts that spring / Out of human
suffering  ”

Dr. Sidney Coulling, one of the great teach-
ers of this university, chose John Lynch for a
reason. Because, like himself, he is above all

.things..I..;a.teacher. 

’ Respectfully,

Robert H. Wilson, ’93

ACLU raises questions

To the Editor:

I was bemused to read in “Civil Liberties,” the national
newsletter of the ACLU, that the student government of Wash-
ington & Lee had “distinguished” itself by refusing to fund a
campus chapter of the ACLU on the grounds of it being “too
controversial.” If I recall correctly, the student government has
the discretion to fund or not to fund campus organizations from
moneys involuntarily conscripted from the student body as
activities fees.

As aproud member of the Virginia ACLU and former director
thereof, I must say I don’t know quite how to feel about the
matter. On one hand, it is par for the course if the ACLU fails to
receive subsidy from any “govemment,” and that is probably for
the best. “Govemment” subsidy of the ACLU seems an oxymo-
ron.
On the other hand, I am thankful that my tenure at W&L Law
School in the early '70s opened my eyes andgenabled me to see
beyond the end of my ignorant, sheltered, privileged nose to
comprehend how our society and its privileged “mainstream”
few (the dominant culture represented at'W&L) have systemati-
cally and continually deprived the iconoclasts, the different and
the other “wogs” of this planet of their civil liberties, with nary
a thought about the ultimate jeopardy to their own civil liberties
thereby.

If the ACLU is “too controversial” for W&L student govem-
ment, that is not the ACLU’s problem. It will get whatever
money itneeds from other sources, to be sure; perhaps from some
of us “controversial” alumni (in lieu of the Annual Fund).

_ t _The, more important question is, how is _th_e_, privileged, yet. 8
pathetic hierarchy of the,W&L student body going to get enlight-

enment?

H. Watkins _Ellerson, ’73L

SAMS advisor, EC comment on Lip Synch

To the Editor:

«Sincere appreciation and thanks are extended to
all who participated in the 1993 Lip Synch Contest;

ham and John, and the poster girls.

QThehltS to the judges Who endured the long Jerry Darrell To the Washington and Lee Community:
evening. to Randolf Hare and his crew at B&G who SAMS Advisor The White Book states “[t]he Honor System at -
Were Outstanding in their e°°Per3ti°h ih Setthtg “P Washington and Lee is based on the fundamental    B  N  
the Pavilion, to Mike Young and his security staff, To the Editor: principal that a spirit of trust pervades all aspects of

support of the event.

Jvlost importantly, kudos go to Ashley Myler,
Elise
Hagensen, Beth Provanzana and Talley Woolley.
These young women worked diligently, beginning
last spring, in planning this year’s event, our most
successful to date. We surpassed our financial goal
_ with $4300 in gross proceeds. Revenue after ex-
pegses will be donated to the National Multiple

SAMS chairperson and her committee:

Sclerosis Society and this year, for the first time,
shared with the Rockbridge Area Relief Association

(RARA) .

In response to the article appearing in the Jan. 28
issue of The Ring-tum Phi: yes, there were isolated
incidents of student misconduct and yes, it was
unfortunate that some students chose to look for
ways to gain access to the Pavilion without paying
admission. However, these incidents paled in com-
parison to the 95 percent of student spectators and
volunteers who conducted themselves in the “true
spirit of W&L.” The event was a complete success:
the committee accomplished all of its goals, most
everyone had a great time and W&L students made

a generous contribution to two worthwhile charities.
Plans for next year’s Lip Synch are already underway
to correct any deficiencies that may have occurred

student life.” The sucess of the Lip Synch contest is
marred by the fact that literally hundreds of people
chose to enter without paying. Whether through
willful ignorance or outright deceit, taking advan-
tage of relaxed security at such an event is wrong.
Our community of trust contemplates an environ-
ment, academic and social, where no unnecessary
rules exist. Let us not jeopardize this privilege by
such thoughtless acts.

The Executive Committee

Interviews and Photos
By Darran Winslow

TALKBACK

day morning. Printed copies will be
available at the Registrar’s Office
beginning Feb. 19. Spring term
registration runs from February 22
at 8:30 a.m. to Feb. 25 at 4:30 p.m.
Students studying abroad or off
campus must register with the
Registrar’s Office to receive proper
credit.

Democrats

College Democrats will meet
Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in the University
Center game room.

’93 Project

The Class of ’93 Senior Pledge
Project Committee is now forming.
Interested? Call Annie at464-6266.

Tournament ,

Scholarship Fund will be held Feb.
20 at 1:30 p.m. in the Maury River
Middle School Cafeteria. Just $5 to
play, and prizes include free meals
at area restaurants. For more infor-
mation, contact Pat Knick at 463-
3129.

ATrivial Pursuittoumamentto   I  ’
beneﬁt the Rockbridge-Lexington ' '

in the Alumni Office. A personal
interview for each applicant will be
required.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe sober ride. Live drive
operates Friday and Saturday from
10p.m.to2a.m. We're also looking
for volunteers to help drive. If inter-
ested call Melissa or less at 464-
4017.

Display

The Minority Student Associa-
tion, the Black Law Student Asso-
ciation and the American Civil Lib-
erties Union remember the life of
Thurgood Marshall, 1908-1993. See
the front University Library display
case.

“.5

The Phl
The Phi is looking forabi-weekly
humorcolumnist. If you can make
the campus laugh, submit a sample
of your writing to the Phi office,
room 208 in the University Center.

Two W&L students, who came before the Student Conduct Committee,
were found in violation of university standards. The following sanctions
were imposed: One student must serve three hours of community service
and is on conduct probation for the remainder of the term; the other student
involved must serve six hours of community service and is on conduct
probation for the rcmziindcr of the term.

to the 150 Performers _(25 acts)» the Sttldent V0ll-In‘ Finally, “put your hands together” for the Minor- this year- General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar
. teers who worked security, madedecorations,worked ity students Association, who won this year's cotn-
concessions, provided publicity, shot the video, petition with their crowd-p]easing performance of Jerry Darrell
worked the spotlight, the masters-of-ceremony Gra- sir Mi x-a-Lot’s “Baby Got Back,” SAMS Advisor

What do you want for Valentine’s Day?

 

Tom Garber, ’9S, Waynesboro, Va.

Catherine Costantino, ’96, Athens, Ga. and Meg Kinder, ’96, Columbia,
SC. — “For our sorority sisters to love us as much as we love them."

Jon Lakamp, ’96, Cincinnatti, Ohio Jeff Brooks, ’93, Danbury, Conn.
— “I want a rich old man with a weak — “A handful of those candy hearts —“All Iwant is for people throughout
heart.” with those really cool messages.” the world to come together and love

_ . one another.”

. Courtney Tucker,’96,Roanoke,Va. ,
—— “Yeah, I want world peace like

Jeff, but can I get a handful of those
really neat candy hearts too.”

 

 

 
 

FEATURES

  
   
 
  
  
 
   
  

 

  
   
 
  
  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 1 1 , 1993

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 

  

c I d c '
écnoss 1
1 ontort
5 Cinema .
employee
10 Prickle j
14 Wlnglike '
15 Weather word . '
16 A Great Lake 
17 withered 5
18 Bender 1,
19 Flavoring plant 
20 Vlgaterslszkellffl 
22 " won a" s 
one ‘ . '“
24 Relative . 5
25 MacLaIne role 0 ,,
26 Fight
29 lntroduction «
33 Actor Flynn g
34 Launder "
35 Operated
36 Gelatinous
3 subgtance .
3; E3?“ of money By SARAH GILBERT imoailgiersacaicgciasllyffloud noise. I hate mrémother lonely man was more ma- star“. I ,, F
3% ll;‘T$u::ick|Y Phi Smff Wm“ Other menwere more demandin “I like '1 b t I’ 1 k‘ f It would beat a‘ sh logge some-
41 F“ O 19% mm Mm saw” me “ ,, , 8- _l , _u m not 00 mg or- where, snowed in with Jodie Foster,”
_ - » uz/11/93 Iwantacar, seniorHenn Moyer ward to it this year” the freshman Mo ‘d
42 lSh°"'“:(', h°‘P°'5 Amgh" R°’°"°d thousand loves to you said “Mine is fal1- said 1]’? Sal I 11 b f
44 nvent - . . . ' - ey can’t a e per ect.
45 Rock 0, tab, 10 pmce of , _ from me—whzch is very mg apart. ‘ Th ~ h .
45 Book 1; seed coming one in return‘ ,1. 0 y 0 l a h 0 W 6 V C r , {)6 havi :11}, or is grossly unromantic .
47 lrrigates 1 Irritate ,, . . ~
50 Immature 13 Endless band . “George G°1’d°h»_ Lord C8mf)’- seemed to be Get him something he doesn’t li.ke
54 Minced can 21 Time of calm Byron in a letter to Augusta Leigh. A n o t h er more excited for Valentine’s D I
55 In accord 23 "—- for All It sometimes seems that nearly all senior had an bo F b u 1 - ﬂy‘ .
57 3*8‘°"‘s‘° 59350"-5" love Poetry is written from men to evenm ‘m a U1 C m- - Mon “Ike [0 getabox Ofcandy",
58 Humdinger 25 Peace goddess A d . . . . Ore’ ‘ ary 14. said the sophomore. “It’s so tradi- 1
59 Swami 26 Stubble W0lh6n- 11 It is traditionally the probable re- “I love it! tionalanditdoesn’tshowan tho ht”
60 Juice-filled fruit 27 Contend women who are the focus of quest. 1 mink ii is [h S . y "g '
61 Profound 23 lgalk neaviiy» Valentine’s Day. “1 want 3 great nealest thing 3 “Ioane were rrtiorciduefct. J
62 B ild 2 onspires . . . on wan a iss rom II
63 R59, In 30 Bear But _what about themen? What do big kiss from _Vanna the sophomore said. Dawson,” a senior said ere y‘
France 31 Knight's lhby lhlhk Of this holiday? What do While, ’ he said. “Sometimes it’s sad “I don’t wantt ‘ t. h’ ”
Weapon they want to receive from their speci When it came to buyinga though because my sig’ other said 0 ge not mg’ an-
DOWN 32 ceased - . _ » , ' - '
1 A state: abbr. 34 Small bottle Someone? . ' gm’ however’ the same semor mﬁcam mher ‘5 at home-” N0‘-hi“8i3"’I-g°0den°“8h f0TY0U?
2 Toward shelter 37 Foolproof Ohb freshman had 8 Very Simple Whl? demanded a car seemed very If the girlfriend wasn’tat home If a woman really wants to get on
3 — avls 38 Amicable. r uest. ' ' to be ' ' ' - - ’ -
4 Ramorlal 40 supernova’ 8.9. eq“A date All I wam is a date ” he Wl “llnﬁould lzelgéipilgyeggnerous. d gfeyoufhad a girlfriend, if this were the the bad side of her man, a freshman , .
creams 41 The app“, ,,_g_ _d “I d -, k f ” . _ ' yway outan sto at possible worlds,how would provided a clue. 3 ‘
5 Suave 43 Spent 531 - 0“ ‘as 0' m"°h- _ _ Selsbmelhlhg <=XP€hS1Vsi“é*< d- 6 you spend Va1entme’s Day? “I don’t want to get hate mail ” he '
6 Holy one 44 Not open 48 Chills and iever 52 Halt Most men seem to have similarly “It wouldn’t be v ' ‘ Most women would be im ressed sa'd ’
7 Posterior 46 Old garment 49 Untrue story 53 \.Nide-mouthed unpretentious jdeaS_ something She W y W-Lh the cremivit of m p 1B‘ . . . ,
3 3°” “bl 47 ”""°» '" 3 5° °“'P W9 ‘‘I would like a sin Ie rose and a with bee r ‘ ‘   y ~ “'3 me"-' - "‘ ‘M ‘S V“'°“““° 3 Day’
9 Bakery item way 51 Eye part 56 Salt Hersheys Kiss n a 3 d m I .[ ,, “Se ° hld Wake “Pm lhemommgm The day for lovers and lovees to
g _ 0 car a says I . ” tic eta 'th k’ f - - .
nothing but ‘I love you’,” one sopho- Are all wome n Igloi/“dag, svalid ?helssS(>;;l(i)(T :i:i?:t;gerd§i[::£:Csr§iiii:ss'  *
0 - o more said. ’ - ’ ’
Fraternity membership dwindles Another freshman only wanted a a§3d§§33‘oii3?§?J3°$2°§§§ w°i?§3nan.ic word - l ‘
1 V - C39‘ , lhmg Smal! 3‘-“d 1 hard to come by Wf9LsI.l.mriIi)ei,i 
to Owest nufnber In years I don tneed candy, I don’t need representative of as§ d up beside the lire- ways turn to th6,imm0rta] words of .
\ ﬂowers ” he our relationship ” a ‘ Qf cham ‘
_ ,3 » , pagne and John Keats ., 3
50 years ago in the Phi — With practically all the Army enlisted Sam‘ . Just M93‘ °f [.h° °me' ’ and the fbsl is (ahdchebkihe "Q\U
reservists receiving orders to report for active duty, the 17 W&L Somemmg [9 mdmonal gms’ ﬂow  Ehgiish 136- ‘ '5.
fraternities find that their active memberships dwindle to their cheerme up‘ B91" do me" really ‘ “V “k Mhlks Cblhd Pamhehl for ""4
lowest number in years, from 600 students to a low of 320. S o m 6 Day‘ . even more in- A ,,,
would settle Perhaps it depends on w tched onto the spiring writ- ‘
Five years ago in the Phi — President John D. Wilson spends the fall -for practical‘ not thﬁhman m quesnon has - , 6T5)? “If YOU \ V ,
semester of the 1988-89 academic year at Oxford University in ﬂy}. cargo e.r' . .  -- 9° 3 “’‘.’“I‘.1 be 3 should eve’ ‘:7 ¢/ ‘W-
England on an administrative leave granted by the university's I w§"',§ h .;’° g“'l§‘:d°“dl°5S S°,“‘°‘ ‘"35  Wllh 3 PICDIC.” 3 feelforman at '
board of trustees. During Wilson's absence, John W. Elrod, vice pho W1? too 3’ 05.? ?‘°W . ﬁle holiday’ -2  Probably be Cbld the first sight
president for academic affairs, will serve as acting president. t 6. eﬁhman  S Stupid.‘ It S a waste of a ho!"  ' - What I did f01'
said. Any- day, he said. ‘There must be amuch ior, however, found his you, I am 0
lhlhg that bale‘ "59 0f the d3)/-’’ 14 alone with a movie lost.”

 

      

  
     
        
   

  
     
      

  
 

 

 

   

       
 
  

   
   
  

  

 
 
  

    
 
  

, ~ . . Valley 7/1(wVa€ae 6    4    
Z QPPQ 0*‘     54   ‘ *‘
' 5
/ , ,
é Ladies 1 Shoes Clothin Hardware, Paint and Related Items We 11 make you look good!
g ’ . g Come to us for all of your design needs.
é andAccess0nes 0 en Mon -8 t 830 6 S Ads, ﬂyers, logos, résumés, faxes, and quick copies.
Z EZiia3"i3'n".§3'i 24450 (7°3)4°3‘593° Ep ' a ' '. am" pm’ Un' 1-5 p'm' E PHONE: 463-1712 - FAX #: 463-6918 Q .
/ - Nelson St-9 Lexington 463‘2186 1.7.5 w. NELSON ST. -LEhXlNGI‘ON_ VIRGINIA- ACROSS FROM'I‘l-IEPOST OFHCE
Hello, Friends... : _. _
Talkln' about getting down to work, ‘bout rolling up our sleeves and pasting .
:ZEI;2jwi.%°,%':?:3:3:..1."J‘f..l.‘:.?$.‘iIf'7:é‘$l.‘:’$2S23;::L'::;':1’,':.?.$':l: § B°"de“ C°mm°hs C°hd0 E 3.»! W” W35.“   
° "“°‘‘°“°''‘"°''‘'i’‘¢3,I£m'.L‘E.::i.:,‘:‘:?.fi',}i,‘:’2J.§fZ.‘.§LZ?.§§..“.!r:,'53,*l?,':i_ » For Sale By Owner E * ‘.
this house cidthought up bvihe creative p9°D|eoHhe new Nexus. ucsa. Two Bedroom Two bath Living 0 D. . 1* ’ V
, , 1' om, mmg room,

Dance Class for FD i Kitchen, Utility room, Storage area, stove, refrig., E HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS A
7-8 p.m. & 8-9 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge on Feb_ 24th, it washer/dryer, microwave, Central heat & air, wall to E Jewelry & Watch repairs, Eh8T3V1h8 l
(Frank Rupus - Helping stundents get ready for FD For over 10 years!) i Wall carpeting, no garage. tax. STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT ~
355-00 Pb? Person» Pay 1 hbura stay 23 §_ Call 463-4634 or 615-373-2095 3 11W- Nelson Street Robby Jones” =
.- .. .  - - -- ~ -.  - .......   "  ;.'.'_;.'_ LcX1ngt°n»Virsinia 24450 <703> 463-2022 ;

9 ' r 6 -we I

” W&L Art W  

  1‘ ¢  1870 Washington College Diploma 0 I
signed “RE. Lee”, ‘§
Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m. h h signatures}; J i
Fitz Le .E. Le , .

All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at M. Miigey C John Letitia: ,

Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m All-U-Can Eat $4 99 Edward Valentme In

W d esd  _ _ ° _ ' W&L Copperplate, hand-colored '

4 e n ay ight BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable Wm‘ §‘§1j‘,§,-“Er-eL,§§; fggfgggggfn ah

1/2 Rack-  Whole rack-  ﬂ Mary and George Washington pieces ,‘

V Saturday Night Prime Rib . ' H‘ <

Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95 Truck st I  “J U  ;

Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day. up  l   i

4 IIIIIBS  on R0llt€ 11 4 East Washington Street Open Monday - Saturday :1

We accept Visa, Mastercard Choice, & Shell L°x1ng"°h- VA 24450 10 am. - 5:30 p.m. . 

 _ _  ____________ __ kkwos) 464-6464 J

qudiotmnics Do You Want VISA & Mastercard Credit Cards? : STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ti.i>LAii-iAi1'iiii—.F_L 35313‘; 
AUDIO - VIDEO - cm snazeo J 
 ,,.,, ....$.2:3:.i°;:.:::.::‘:“,:.“:.2.ii.:cr.."i°::.i°°.:§:::s.°.2: . YES: lwantVlSA®/MAsTERCARD®Ci-edit : 

IADCOM L. It s..“I .* VEN - ' .
 iriiie °   : ;=;;,ds~ E,n;*°s=d,',:;;:,: 5 Wm-100% mi"-dab'= "mt : ’ 
:g:ToN gg,?NmVE VISA!” and MastcrCard0 the credit cards you I I | T-§
KUPSCH BAZOOKA deserve an§Tr6eed for;‘U|ItI){)!r3“0C;£l:‘§!-~EI'£%l\>]I\l:!'I}w‘MIEN'l‘ 3 NAME ' 

: gf,§g§E;Rg$;°c;g+;P§Lg<;MM EMERGENCY caisH—TicKt-:i_s—Ri:sTnuRA[f:riNsr,: ' ADDRESS | V
3 nepn’ii‘§‘_"Ei'IiSE-i"o°§i'3i%’»f€a‘us§‘c5i?e"e"i¥'i§?i~SEi : cm ' v 2
- we SERVICE MOST BRANDS STATE — ZIP I V 
. MASTERCARD/VISA/DISCOVER ‘ﬂee’ I PHONE -SS” .
(800) 468-6667 6“*"' mm No credit : S[(}NATURE ' ' I
c°<r>:::|::;)i-?::':r?‘gIs::«r}‘o:c)iI 54:7“ V\5”:::?:‘°.“;:‘:_ no security dewsit! ' Norm Maniac-ni is: registered uadcnalk nrnieeiaonni lnlcmltloml. Int; '
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke No: .6005" Approval absolutely guammced so I visa is - gswgredbnundennik d’VlSA us.A. Inc. and VISA inimmionei I
i ‘ ‘°°°" °"‘““""“"' I '

 

    
 
    
    
  
  
  
     
 
    
 
  
  
   
  
  
      
 

Q

Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1993

 .l'l3"lS Teeter
MEANS LOW PRICES

i‘ ’ REDUCED PRICE
5 BONELESS CENTER-CUT

PORK CHOPS E

  

   

rirsou-i-ic_>_i.i.v FARMS

"B“<"iitiEiEss
FRYER BREAST... 

cAr.ii=oRmA . DiEr can on
ICEBERG cocA-coi.A
* LETTUCE 2 mm

 ‘Q

 99

LIMIT 3 WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE,
PLEASE

  
 
 
  
    
     
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
 

  

 

,,l-!ARRlgSTEETER.;‘.e LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY
; KING THIN SANDWICH

  59
7»  MCI BREAD .... ..24 oz. LOAF O
 O0

 
     

   
    
   

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE CRANBERRY 2 [

REGISTER to WIN IN -’”"-'5 C°CK7A"-
  ...................... ..48 OZ. 
BAYER 1
‘H O   sEi.Ecr ................. .. 24 Cr.
 SELECTED ELAVORS

RUFFLES POTATO

CHIPS ............. ..5.5-is oz. 099

You Could Win One Of These Fabulous
, Prizes. See Details And Register At The
‘ ‘Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter.

 
Panel takdmissions

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

' genuine concern that what occurs here

     
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando
Florida For The Game With Orlando
Magic, Includes Air Fare On U.S. Air
. Accommodations And Game Tickets.

:0 ﬁne Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,
, .C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes
 Game Tickets 8. Hotel Accommodations.

”_ One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air E
Service. Call I-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

0 One Pair Of Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away
In Each Harris Teeter For March/April Games.

Find Details And Register At The Coke

sLicED ro ORDER
TURKEY
BREAST

99

IN THE DELI-
BAKERY

LB.

 

Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter.

 

  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  

_ ‘VALIJABLE COUPON VALUABLE COUPON

1.00 or: ' ,§_.o* arr :

I
p-——°-‘~ When You Purchase | |  When You Purchase
"5’;  Any Half Gallon Of I I a‘ Any Gibson I
 Hood Frozen Yogurt .1 Greeting Card Or

   
     
      

 

  
 

5

 

uesday, February I6, I99 . I
ld To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

Prices In This Ad Eliective Wednesday February IO Througso
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None

  

    

F5-='(‘
, W E"; I '

it  Me--— Or Ice Milk Valentine

‘ 43951

T3‘$:?;‘2.“.‘:.‘i.T.’i'>‘;’,’i>Z‘:’.’i.‘i.‘Z." t.‘ii“,§‘§§‘o%T)" M2420 I IZ'§;;%?.ﬂ’¥!pT%%2.°§g§§‘§o?$%‘:O PLU2426 I
."t‘ii‘:"e:.::f:;:‘i ,-.%“§"*'“°”‘° . FROZEN I |tt'.".'"2:sf::;.tfi..;' ““°'* NFSGROCERY I
‘F-ouio~5gAiuEt Hariisteeter G ycoupcgwttuey Hamsfeeter G

‘ 
  .Prices Effective Through February I6, I992

“Washington and Lee University
admits students, awards financial aid,
and administers its academic program
and other programs without regard to
race, sex, religion, color, national or
ethnic origin.”

The accuracy of this statement,
which appears on every W&L admis-
sions application, was the subject of
Tuesday night’s Graham-Lee-Wash-
ington Literary Society panel discus-
sion.

But Dean of Admissions William
Hartog, one of six panel members, said
there is a genuine concern that parts of
the admissions process are unfair.

“When the Board of Trustees de-
cided on coeducation, the one topic on
which they all agreed was that the
transition to co-education should oc-
cur slowly,” Hartog said. “Now that
we’re eight years removed, there is a

is not fair. Men compete against men
and women compete against women
[in the admissions process].”

Hartog said the male-to-female ra-
tio is probably close to 62-38. He called
the ratio a “very, very, sensitive topic,
one that we speak about on adaily level
in the admissions office. There is no
doubt that sex-blind admission would
make for a stronger class.”

Hartog said that if the present class
had been admitted on the basis of a
gender blind policy, the ratio would be

50-50. being a minority.”

The reasons cited for the 60-40 ratio
included the impact of a decreased
number of men on the athletic program
and on the fraternity system

The panel also addressed. the need
for more minorities in the student body.

James Rarnbeau, ’9 1 , ’94L, another
panel member, said that had he gone to
apredominantlyblack college, “I would
have been more of a well-rounded stu-
dent, concentrating on issues other than

  

Photo by Amy French, The Fi’i'ng—tum Phi

James Rambeau, '91, ’94L, and Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid William Hartog serve on a panel Tuesday in the Generals
Headquarters, talking about W&L admissions and campus diversity.

Ram beau said that every black alum-
nus who he contacted about coming
back to W&L had a negative reaction.

Rambeau said that it is important to
get minority students to become inter-
ested in W&L. He said he has noticed
a significant difference in the white
students admitted in recent years.

“They tend to be more open-
minded,” he said. “We must change
from within by bringing in more di-
verse white students.”

‘Foreign Student’ gets go—ahead

in From MOVIE, page 1

the Colonnade, Evans Dining Hall, the old Doremus Pool
and dorm exteriors. The rest of the film will be shot
elsewhere in Virginia, possibly in Richmond, Shaw said.

The movie is based on Phillipe Labro’s semi-autobio-
graphical novel based on his experience as an exchange
student at W&L during the 1950s. Eva Sereny will direct the
movie, which will be in English. Marco Hofschneider
(“Europa, Europa”) will play the lead role, and Robin
Givens (“Boomerang”) will play a black woman with whom
he has an affair.

In December, film crews came to Lexington to scout
possible shooting sites. Shaw said he escorted them around
campus and to nearby sites, including Zollman’s Pavilion.

If the production company decides to film here, Labro

himself might come to W&L, Professor of Journalism John
Jennings said.

“I don’t know if he’ll be here,” Jennings said. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if he did come.”

Shaw said that Labro’s schedule would be the deciding
factor.

“I talked to him a couple of days ago, and he indicated
that he’d like to [come], but he’s very busy,” Shaw said.

Shaw said Labro has not contributed to the writing of the
screenplay but does support it. Shaw said that, since Labro
has directed several films, the author might be interested in
the filming from a director’s standpoint.

Shaw said he contacts the Virginia Film Office almost
daily and hopes to have a definite answer soon.

The movie will be distributed by Universal Studios and
will probably be released this fall or near Christmas, Shaw
said.

Apartment for Rent



$300 per month for the unit.

- Great Location

, Cateringto W&L,Students - Two Bedroom apartment
for rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk
from the W&L campus. $150 per month, per bedroom.

- Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet
- Landlord pays for water, including hot water

      
   

   

I Look int‘o<«this
light. Cool, huh?

  

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown, at 463-3013

University Cleaners

$45

FD Special

    
 
   

I have to wear
A TUX?

...No problems!

Has a Wide. selection of
Tuxedos for rent.

  

Needed: Editors and Business Manaers of
University Publications

Positions Available: Editor & Business
Manager of The Ring—tum Phi, Editor &
Business Manager of the Calyx, Editor of
the Ariel, Editor of the Journal of Science,
and Editor of the Political Review.

Letters of Interest for Ring-tum Phi
positions due February 22, 1993;
Interviews — March 1, 1993
Call 463-8581 for details

Letters of Interest for all other -
publications due March 8, 1993;
Interviews — March 15,1993

All letters of interest may be turned into Carol Calkins in the University Center.

    
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

 

 

Last Week:

Bba1l- W&L 58, Lynchburg 57 (5-15)
MSwim—W&L 137,MWC 66 (8-0)
WSwim— MWC 146,W&L 48 (7-3)

Wrstle- 4th at Va. State Champ. (4-5)

PAGE 6

@112 iRittg—tum ilﬁhi

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

This Week:

Bball- at Roanoke 2/13

Swim- at Radford 2/ 13 (M&W)
Wrestle- at Longwood 2/1 1

IT- at Va. Tech Invit. 2/ 13

FEBRUARY 11, 19b3,

Generals pull off
miracle comeback

By SEAN O’RouRi<r2
Phi Sports Editor

What is it about playing at
Lynchburg and last second wins for the
Generals’ basketball team?

Last year Bob Ehret beat the Hor-
nets on a last-second layup.

This year, Mark Connelly decided
it was his turn to be the hero.

The Generals were in desperate need
of a win, especially an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference win. A loss last
night would have knocked the Gener-
als out of the post-season tournament.

The last time these two met, it was
Anthony Cummings versus the whole

Brading, who immediately goes
crosscourt to Derek Carter.

Six-ﬁve-four-three.

Carter ﬁnds Connelly up the side-
line. Connelly catches the pass just
over halfcourt, takes two dribbles and
launches a long three.

NBC (Nothing But Cotton).

Two-one. Over.

Inamiraculouscomeback,Connelly
single-handedly brings the Generals
back from the brink of elimination. He
sunk two 3-pointers in six seconds.
Generals win 58-57.

Connelly led the Generals with 14
points, followed by Carter with 11.
Ehret and Robert Miggins chipped in
10 apiece.

 

;:""‘<'i«.

em‘? *

W&L team. Last night, it was the same
deal.

Connelly didn’t dwell on the vic-
tory. Instead he looked ahead to the

Cummings jumped all over the Gen-
erals, going 14-for-16 from ﬂoor and
finishing with 30 points. But the Gen-
erals had a secret weapon, the 3-point
shooting skills of Mark Connelly.

W&L trailed the Hornets 56-52 with
about 12 seconds remaining and was
seeing their post-season hopes wind-
ing down with the clock.

Not to fear. Connelly up and hits a
long three off the backboard. 56-55
Hornets.

The Generals quickly foul, and
Lynchburg obliges by sinking only one
of two free throws.

Head coach Verne Canfield calls
timeout and develops the play.

The ball’s inbounded to Bryan

Generals’ possibilities of making the
ODAC Tournament.

“I feel good about these next few
ODAC games,” Connelly said. “I know
we can get to Mennonite.”

The Generals ﬁnish the season with
five more road games, including a
rematch with Eastern Mennonite on
Feb. 17.

Earlier in the week, the Generals
were dealt a heart-wrenching loss by
EMC. The Royals spoiled SeniorNight
for Brading, Bryan Watkins, Ehret and
Darren Johnson.

W&L took a 20-8 lead halfway
through the first. The team saw the lead
evaporate, and a 7-0 rim in the second
solidiﬁed the Rovals’ win.

Th ing-tu PI

4 Poto by Jameson Leonardi,
men's swimming meets have seen
Generals’ swimmers, all by their lonesome. With only one dual
meet left, W&L has yet to see their unbeaten mark blemished.

 

This is how spectators at

Injuries plague W&L wrestling

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L wrestling campaign is
fast coming to a close. One dual meet
remains for the team, and the focus has
clearly shifted from the regular season
to the post-season NCAA wrestling
tournament.

Sophomores Eric Shirley and Adam
Williams, and freshmen Rob Sands
and Colin Looney all took second

place at last weekend’s Virginia State
Tournament.

In the semi-final match of the state
tournament, Looney sprained his knee.
His was able to ﬁnish out the match for
the win, but could not continue in the
tourney. He defaulted the ﬁnal and
cannot wrestle for the remainder of the
season.

Head coach Gary Franke said
Looney’s injury could be a major fac-
tor in upcoming action.

Swimmers ready C  
for national meets

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s swimming team raised
their record to 8-0 on the season by
winning their 13th straight meet Satur-
day over Mary Washington College.
The women fell to MWC that day, but
defeated Hollins College Thursday for
their 16th consecutive Old Dominion
Athletic Conference meet victory.

The men took first in eight of the
eleven races in the 137-66 win. In fact,
W&L held the top two spots seven
times.

Freshman Justin Dardani won twice,
while the Generals also picked up wins
from senior Andrew Pearson and
sophomores Roland Chase and John
Rowe.

Dardani won the 200 and 500-
freestyles. Pearson took the 50-
freestyle, while Sears touched first in

“There’s no one else there, so we’ll
forfeit that weight class. His knee in-
jury will really hurts us in the Longwood
match, but that's the way it goes.”

Leading the other three top finish-
ers is Sands. Sands leads the Generals
in nearly every offensive category, and
has compiled a 17-7 record. In the
weekend’s action he went 1-1, losing
in the finals to a Longwood foe with
whom he had split his previous two
meetings.

the 200-IM and Rowe won the 200-
breaststroke.

W&L’s female aquatics wer
outrnatched by MWC, but thrashe
Hollins, 143-112, to improve tlyi
ODAC mark to 5-0. They are 7-3 with
the 146-48 loss to Mary Washington.

Freshman Rebekah Prince set a-

school record in the 100—backstroke
(1203.42) versus Hollins.

Prince tallied three victories again st
Hollins and anchored the winning 200-

free relay team. Senior Claire Ducﬂey .-

was also a three-race winner. Sopho-
mores Susan Fisher and Brandi
Henderson each had two wins in the
rout. ‘

Both teams will be at Radford Sat- 

urday for their final dual meets ofghe
season. Then the men prepare for the
Southern States Championship, while
the women get ready for the ODAC/
Atlantic States Championships.

team ,

Shirley lost to a Norfolk State wres- A

tler in the ﬁnals of his weight class.

Williams also fell in the finals of his ,

weight division.

“We would have been more satis- '

fied to have a champion, but we had -

four in the finals,” Franke said.

The team will be hard pressed to
overcome Looney’s loss tonightagainst
a talented Longwood College team.
It’s the ﬁnal dual meet of the season
for the Generals.

Arthur Ashe
He was much more than a legend

0

463-2742

115 S. Main St., Lexington

Sure to please - “Looking Good” Gift Certificates

for those special Valentines. Mary Kay Cosmetics for
women & skin management for men.

Gentlemen and Ladies call Lorie Sadler 463-6379

2 New Houses built with students in mind
4 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, Modern Kitchen, Large Living Area,
Washer/Dryer, Stove, Refrigerator, and Central Heat. Full
basement for recreation. Front and back decks. 12 miles
Southwest of Lexington. $600/month +deposit. Contact
Kenney’s Burger 463-5730 or call 463-2320.

CELLENT ,
EXTRA INCOME NOW!

Free Details: SASE to
International inc.
1356 Coney island Ave.
Brooklyn. New York 11230

Student Housing For Rent
Houses within city limits:
107 _McLaughlin - $800 for four students
Houses in the county:
Rt. 39 - 1 mile off Rt. 11 - $800 for four students
Mt. Vista - 3 miles west on Rt. 60 - $900 for ﬁve students
Turkey Hill - Rt. 602 off Rt. 631 - 4 miles from town
' $600 per month for three students or
$800 per month for four students
Duplex apartments: 605 Allen St. A & B
2 Bedrooms $325.00 each apartment

‘ENVELOPE STUFFING -- ssoo — $2300 every week - q

 

Call Mead & Associates 463-7168

Organize a small group for FREE trip
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

 
  

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom
combination. Private Bath. 10-month
lease. Sin les onl .Call 463-3835.

v »

   
 

ondale - - n k - i
Janspoit day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

TGIF
OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive _
merchandise from America ’s most famous mail
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women ’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 — 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

463-7969

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

  
   
 
 
   

By SEAN OROURKE nirig, but no definite turning reacts with his usual class and black man to win the U.S.Open for her. _ He always worried the most to Arthur Ashe has the same
Pm. Spam Editor point, and definitely no clear dignity. and Wimbledon. Then he comes to his daugh- about those who did not under- sense.‘ It was just the way he
* ending. He readsa He talks ter, Camera. He utters the ﬁrst stand or were too young to do so. stuck in your spirit,
J_ In 1975é\rthur Ashefdefeattﬁd d The )1/gag shizriice that spring ptr elp a r ed Tfere is no bitter abpu; his fey; wprds cliftla-enitaw para_gra}p_h But hg never carried bitterness I will miss him in my own
immy onnors or e ay in ve seen grea s a e men - wi e earine an s o s o o regain is owar anyone or any group, no wa _
WimbledonCharnpionship.Iwas changes in my life, and some of o u tl in i n g ness or Self pity in and how composiire. The? most poignant matterwhat sort of injustice they idid not cry when 1 heardﬂ
four-and-a-half years old at the the best lessons I have learned how he con- . . . they have moment comes when he knows committed against him. Ashe died. Despite his appear-
time and only remember bits and over the years can be directly tracted the hls Volcexlustacalnl dealt with he cannot ﬁnish, he raises his Who Arthur Ashe was goes ance and attitude, Ashe was in
pieces of the match. What I re- attributed to my awareness of HIV virus and determined dc. the situation left hand to hide his eyes brieﬂy, beyond patience and courage.He pain, He was suffering from a
member vividly is crying when who Arthur Ashe was. during a meanor that made since_ doc- and then asks his wife to finish was an inherently gracious man. terrible disease, and his death
. , - , -
$.?fil§‘.ii2é°}{’.ti.“§.‘,i‘:?.‘é‘Zf.i.‘i.i.‘l whiti‘;iS.§li§f§‘s§§iTé’J§§§ }’.l‘§?.§’..‘§f‘£€§; him the first and Ziéiiﬁiiiﬁl" "‘°,i‘“t‘§i."°.?.‘i;...e. 1...... he is §ii§‘$f§Z’ii’..‘£‘§.f‘?t‘2§.f,‘:“i§‘.ffu‘¥.° S"ai;°.§’tf.‘Z‘.§l.i‘“Z9‘l‘.‘é’.‘iii{i?.§‘.i;o
day. on April 8, 1992. Ashe calls a his open- only black man to dition in answering the questions of the like most of us, he admitted he much more tz offer the world;‘
Ihave never felt the same way press conference to announce heart surgery . ’ 1988 during journalists present. had them, which made him bet- so much more knowledge and
again. he has AIDS. He says he came in 1983. wln the U-S- Open his brain The entire conference syrn- ter equipped to deal with those compassion, that is sorely
It has taken me more than an forward before a journalist There is no and Wimb]ed0n_ surgery. He bolized who Arthur Ashe was failings. needed by the human race.
hour to reach this point in this printed his story in a nationally- bitterness or Tj-——--— tells of her and what he has come to repre- Ashe died on Saturday after- Arthur Ashe did not live to
pierce becausggiytrip  read newsiiapeﬁ1_From the out- seltf piity in his iéoiice, just a C$m gears  anger, ant: her fear for seat. He glipver geared lfforthir;11- npon, and Ihrieveg h2}dft?t€Ill1((I)lIl0I' see hiséireacrin of1inequali£y(z1ind
s e 1S one tcarmo easi set ou rea ize is was a move an eterrnine emeanor at im. is voice comes un- se orw owe in se i , e o mee in im, ut e ew a wor -wi e a e en e ——
described; it hasadeﬁnite begin)-, he did not want to make, but he made him the first, and only, steady and you know he fears was not selﬁsh like that? y him. Anyine who ever listened but he gave usphogple for both. 9
VARNER 3, poi_E ,,um,,u,eDem Spring Break: ADMISSIONS COUNSELOR
"""""j"'- CANCUN, NASSAU _
For your extra pieces of furniture from $ 2 99 The W&L Admissions Ofﬁce is now accepting applications

for an anticipated Admissions Counselor position. All interestedol
graduating senior should submit a cover letter and resume no
later than Monday, March 1, 1993 to:

 

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Director of Admissions
Ofﬁce of Adrriissions "
I" ' "' " ' ' """"""" - ' 1

0
C
0

4\\

\,

Lcopyright 1993, Great Eastern Resorts. WL

 

chairman of the board.-

Grab your snowboard and show everybody at Massanutten you
mean business. All our slopes are open to snowboard skiing, along with
our challenging half pipe. Ski Massanutten any Monday or Friday after
12:00 pm for our College Days rates, just $14 for a lift ticket with your  ‘
valid college ID. Bring this ad and you'll receive an additional $2 off the 6"
College Days lift ticket rate. Lessons and limited snowboard rentals are
available. So come on, join the fun. And prove who's the boss.

Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

10 Miles Eastﬂorfﬂl-iarris<‘)r1l>urg', Virginia on Route 3.3 i‘.

.-.4-

2“—2-—_22“2:l'\-

‘K
..- - ...__

4

fl

5--1113:-4

 

