 
     
    
  

     
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  

‘ THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
wAsHlNcro.~.s & use UNIVERSVTY
IEXENC-.'il’i.3;‘l, wt. 2-3450 '

   

RING-TUM PHI, STICKERI BUM!
Take A Look At The History, People and Processes Behind W&L’s Student Newspaper

U112 ‘llttng-tum lﬂlti

VOLUME 92, NO. 17
"I

    
   
  
    
   
      
  
  
  
  
       
   
    
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
    

9

I

1

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Mallory yrs, Th Ring-tm ' i

Aiithor Francis Fukuyama tells an audience Jan.28 thatthetriumph of democracy means
that history has achieved its purpose.

Triumph of capitalism

means ‘end of history’

By JEANNE BRIGGS

Phi Staff Writer

said his conclusion can also be reached by analyz-

ing social struggles in history.

-0

Marx had the right equation, but got the answer
wrong, author Francis Fukuyama told a Lee Chapel

audience Thursday.

Fukuyam a, who wrote The End of History and
the Last Man  \i‘Iith,l._he‘ fallaoflcommunist
d authoritarian regimes, history has fulﬁlled its
p rpose: the recognition of liberal democracy as

the most effective form of government.
Fukuyama said his book is “a Marxist interpre-
tation of history that leads to capitalism instead of
socialism.” He said the book is often misperceived
as an argument that history as we know it is over.
’ The former State Department deputy director

Society

I advises
pre-law

By J .D. Lowmr

_. Phi Law School Writer

Undergraduates can now learn
everything they ever wanted to
know about law school, but were
afraid to ask.

Phi Alpha Delta, a law ser-
vise fraternity, has created the

' Pre-Law Society to pair under-

graduates who are interested in
law school with law students.

Although the specifics of the
program have not been decided,
PAD plans to host informal gath-
ergngs for Pre-Law Society mem-
bers so undergraduates can meet
law students and ask questions
about law school life and the law
school admissions process.

'I'hird-year law student Bobby
Lilly, one of the project's coordi-
nators, said the need for such a
p?ogram was evident.

“Every year both law students
and undergrads who are running

I for Big Four positions campaign

on improving relations between
the Law School and the under-
graduate campus,” Lilly said.

0 PAD encourages the estab-
lishment of undergraduate chap-
ters, so, in keeping with that phi-
losophy,LillyaskedProfessorof
Politics Lewis John about the
feasibility of a mentor program.

“Students had expressed an
iiterest in a program like this,
and that coincided with [Lilly’s]
call,” John said. .

At a Pre-Law Society meet-
ing Jan. 21, 10 undergraduate
students were paired with men-
tors from the Law School.

. While some of the under-
graduates said they definitely

i plan to go to law school, others

were interested in joining thepro-
gram to find out whether or not
law school is right for them.
“I’minterested inpolitics, and
aybe interested in law school,

. and I think this is a good way to

get to see what it's all about,”
freshman Melissa Byrd said.

He said history demonstrates “a national struggle

of recognition,” which he defined as the “worth of

one personto another.
“Human beings alone desire recognition and do

not feel human unless they are recognized,”

amples.

Fukuyama said. “And the fundamental and impor-
tant thing that democrae-ysgives us is recognition of
our self-worth.”

Fukuyama cited controversy over the treatment
of Anita Hill, treatment of the disabled, and the
struggle over gays in the military as modern ex-

l

“Peace and prosperity are not sufficient,”
Fukuyama said. “Unsolvable issues still exist. We
cannot ﬁnally close the story of human history.”

    

“Photo by Amy French, The Fling-tum Phi

Living history

James Farmer, last surviving member of the legend-
ary “Big Four” leaders of the civil rights movement,
tells a capacity crowd Wednesday about his deal-
ings with Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X.

Service fraternity
seeks members

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

Rush week for Alpha Phi
Omega, Washington and Lee’s
coed service fraternity, isn’t the
stress-filled frenzy normally as-
sociated with fraternity Rush.

“[APO] Rush is really infor-
mal,”RushChairman MattAppel
said. “We just declare periods
when we try to entice people to
join.”

Tonight, after a week of Rush
activities which included a pizza
party, a movie night and a group
effort to help refurbish a local
house, APO will invite partici-
pants to join the fraternity in a
pledging ceremony.

APO pledge educator Eliza-
beth Dettmar said nine students
pledged APO after last term’s
Rush period. Dettrnar said she
hopes five to eight students
pledge tonight.

“We’ve had a bunch of people
show up to our activities,”
Dettrnar said. “So we’ll see what
we get.”

Dettrnar said the chapter won
a national award last year for
their 200 percent increase in mem-
bership. She said two consecu-
tive seven-person pledge classes
and dedicated members helped
APO‘win the award.

Appel said some of the 30
APO members belong to social
fraternities or sororities.

APO President Jim Prather
said the service fraternity wel-
comes anyone who’s willing to
help serve Lexington.

“We’re looking for people
who care about others and who
care about the community,”
Prather said.

Appel said past APO activi-
ties included working with Spe-
cial Olympics and volunteering
with bexington’s Projectsafc and
Sound to rebuild old houses.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 4, 1993

EC rejects proposal
for partisan funding

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee barely rejected
aproposal Monday allowing it to fund groups
with partisan positions.

Andrew Schneider, president of the W&L
chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union,
proposed that the EC adopt a policy which
would have overturned the previous policy
of not funding groups it deems “partisan.”

Law professor and ACLU advisor Allan
Ides said the current EC policy of not funding
ideologically partisan groups is one way to
stay neutral, but he said there is a better way.

“[Under the current policy,] you run the
risk of becoming a censor,” Ides said. “I
disagree with 75 percent of what the ACLU
does, butI strongly agree with some of their
positions.”

Junior EC Rep. Ashby Hackney said hav-
ing to fund many small groups may mean less
money for each group supported by the EC.

Schneider said the EC’s reasoning is
flawed.

“The EC is acting too paternalistic on this

ravine at the Law School, which has a policy
of funding all groups regardless of ideology,
and you can see this is not a problem.”

Several EC
members told
Schneider that if he
changed the name
of the chapter to
disassociate it
from the national
ACLU and pro-
posed the same
kind of activities,
he would have a
better chance of re-
ceiving money.

S c h n e i d e r
called the idea ri-
diculous.

“I think it is sort of patronizing to be quite
honest,” Schneider said. “It would be like
asking the EC to change its name to the
Honor and Funding Clu .”

Freshman EC Rep. Peter Agelasto said
the current EC funding policy is too limited.

“Because we are an institution of higher
learning we need to foster debate,” Agelasto

Schneider

    

The EC debated the issue with Schneider,
Ides and Federalist Society President Robert
Palladino for over an hour.

A motion to adopt Schneider's proposal
failed 5-7.

In other business, the EC discussed pro-
posed revisions to the Student Body Consti-
tution with Ring-tum Phi Executive Editors
Cathryn Lopiccolo and Richard Peltz.

Lopiccolo and Peltz said they proposed
the revisions because the constitution is out-
dated and in need of clarification.

The EC can either vote to put the revisions
on the ballot or any student may submit a
petition with 50 students’ signatures to put a
revision on the ballot.

To pass a revision, half of the student
body must vote in the referendum, and two-
thirds of those voting must vote to approve
the revision.

EC President Josh MacFarland said the
committee will consider the proposals again
Monday.

MacFarland also told the EC that, since a
Jan. 28 Phi article reponing that 40 students
sneaked into Lip Synch without paying, Lip
Synch Chairman Ashley Myler has received

point,” Schneider said. “Just look across the

said.

anonymous donations and apologies.

Caller tries to defraud W&L

‘-Pasraplegicltransferzetudent’seeks access to phones

By KRISTA Tnunms
Phi Contributing Writer

A man claiming tobeparaple-
gic is trying to access the W&L
phone system, possibly to make
long-distance calls at the school's
expense.

“The man is good at what he
does,” said Dianna DeHart, a sec-
retary in the Development Of-
ﬁce who accepted one of the calls.
“He is an excellent manipulator.
He is very forceful in his conver-
sations.”

A man claiming to be Tom
Fitzpatrick of the Michigan Cor-
rectional Center has called vari-
ous university offices collect and
asked to be transferred to an out-
going line.

b Director of University Ser-
vices James Johndrow said that
if the call is transferred, the caller

could use a computer to learn the
code to access Washington and
Lee’s outgoing lines and make
unlimited long-distance calls,
billable to W&L.

When the caller reached
DeHart, he told her he is aparaple-v
gic student transferring to W&L,
she said. He said he wanted to
find out if the admissions office
had received his tuition check.

To do that, the man said his
call had to be transferred to a
special operator who assists
handicapped people on the tele-
phone. That operator would then
transfer his call to the admissions
office.

During the conversation,
DeHart tried to find the caller's
name on the W&L computer sys-
tem to find out if he was really a
transferring student.

When his name did not ap-
pear, she tried to end the conver-

sation with him, but he contin-
ued to try to get her to transfer the
call.

A long-distance operator
broke into the conversation and
warned Del-Iart not to give the
caller access t‘o"the’ W&L line.

“The whole thing was very
disturbing,” DeHart said.

Alice Brown with the Michi-
gan State Department of Correc-
tions said there is no such thing
as a Michigan Correctional Cen-
ter, and her department has no
record of a prisoner named Tom
Fitzpatrick.

Johndrow said W&L cannot
transfer calls from an incoming
line to an outgoing. But the caller
thinks it can be done, so he con-
tinues to call.

“We have a great technical
service department that really
does their job tracking calls and
protecting our telephone

switches,” Johndrow said.

The caller has also attempted
to access outgoing lines at Vir-
giniaTech and at a Roanoke hos-
pital, Johndrow said. .

Johndrow said phone fraud is
a growing scam and students
should be careful with their call-
ing card numbers.

Johndrow said one trick in-
volves a caller claiming to be a
long-distance company em-
ployee.

Johndrow said the caller de-
mands a person’s calling card
number, saying his long distance
service will be disconnected if he
doesn’t read the number.

A man in Roanoke received a
$5 6,000 phone bill for one week-
end of calls that someone else
made, J ohndrow said.

“And AT&T doesn't care who
made the calls,” Johndrow said.
“They just want to be paid.”

Music classes boost GPAs

By ToM Haspos
Phi Staff Writer

Want an A? Take music.

According to a breakdown of
1991-92 grades released by the
Registrar’s Office, the music de-
partment gave A’s to 69.2 per-
cent of students taking music
classes. -

On the other end of the spec-
trum, the anthropology depart-
ment gave the fewest A’s pro-
portionally, with just 17.4 per-
cent of students getting A’s.

“I lcnow that in general, the
number of A’s [in anthropology]
has been low in comparison to
other departments,” anthropol-
ogy department chairman O.
Kendall White said.

White attributed the low num-
ber of A’s to the approximately
150 students enrolled in Anthro-
pology 101 last year. White said
the sections were taught by pro-
fessors John McDaniel and David
Novack, who he said are tough
graders.

The engineering department
doled out the greatest proportion
of failing grades, with F’s mak-
ing up 7.8 percent of all grades
awarded by the department.

If last year’s grade point aver-
ages are any indication, the aver-
age W&L student can expect to
graduate cum laude.

The average GPA was 3.017
last year, with 75 percent of
grades given being A’s and B's.

The report also said the per-
centage of failing grades fell to a
29-year low of 1.6 percent.

1 00% —
90% —

  

80% —

  

. Music

70% —

  

60% -
50% -
30% -
20% -
10% —
0% -

 

nleaale

\\\\\\\\‘\

40°/.—  

   

  

 
   

\ ' ms

‘ K

  
 
   
 

S

   

Most likely to get an A

Least likely to

get an A
(any kind) (any kind)
2 / 13.9%
0°.-
15.4%
15°/..- ' ’
10%" 7.4% 6.9% 7-8%
4.4%
5%-
0%-

Figures compiled from Report of the University Registrar 1991-92

 
  
   

Real GPA-uppers - (Best

chance of getting an A+)

Easy-D Classes - (Best
chance of getting a D)

T '""'1

 

‘PAGE2

Ellie ﬂing-mm iﬂhi

Founded September 18, 1897

EC wisely steers
clear of politics

Andrew Schneider, president and founder of the Washington
and Lee chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, deserves
commendation for his political savvy in bringing the issue of
ACLU funding before the Executive Committee yet again, this
time the week before an election.

With the smell of rising dissent in the air, the EC stuck to its guns
on the policy of staying out of the political arena by not funding
organizations which take stands on political issues, and that, too,
deserves commendation.

The W&L chapter of the ACLU is not allying itself with the
national organization on political issues, representatives said Mon-
day, but is using the national organization only for resources.

But they failed to address the problem of afﬁliation. The chapter
is nonetheless afﬁliated with the ACLU, and for student activities
dollars to be allocated to an organization whose name connotes
partisanship is to politicize the budget process.

We do not wish to enter the debate on what the standing policy
of the EC should be. They are in the difﬁcult position of having to
draw a line deﬁning which activities will be deemed “partisan,”
and the groups that are asking for clariﬁcation have valid concerns.

But the EC is on the correct course. The committee members for
the most part recognize that politicization of the committee would
be detrimental to its functioning. It would be injurious to student
government and autonomy if the annual election process were
dominated by political debate, and if the EC were torn by it. The EC
has traditionally shied away from political debate when its opin-
ions did not reﬂect a uniﬁed sentiment, and that has been wise.

The retort of the ACLU chapter representatives, and the reser-
vations expressed by some EC members about the funding policy,
is that the EC can still remain free from politicization and serve the
community better by funding all groups which express what the
committee deems to be partisan ideologies.

The ﬂaw in that logic is simply that there are not enough student
activities dollars to go around. For every proactive group which
would ask for funding, a reactive group would be entitled to equal
funding.

EC Secretary Bob Tompkins pointed out that in not funding the
ACLU, the EC is not saying it does not want the chapter to exist.
The ACLU chapter serves the community by virtue of its very
existence as an outlet of communication. But with the proliferation
of budget requests the EC would receive after announcing that
“partisan” groups have the same access to student dollars that other

groups have, not much money would remain for the ACLU.

Again, we commend Schneider for reviving the funding issue ——
any issue, in fact—- at election time. Our only warning to him is that
on a campus where students trust their government so clearly that
they allow EC doors to close unconstitutionally without even a
whimper of dissent, his efforts to hold candidates accountable for
their past records are probably in vain.

— CL, RP, GP, NM

Belated honor?

The Lip Synch organizers who reported to the EC on Jan. 25 that
students had sneaked into the event without paying, possibly even
by lying about their right to be there for free, reported to EC Monday
that they have received anonymous donations of the entry price.

The news gives us an odd mixture of disappointment and elation.
Knowingly circumventing the admission fee, whether lying about
it or not, is dishonorable conduct. The number of students involved
is alarming. Yet some people, perhaps after reading the story in the
last Phi, felt obliged to pay their way, albeit belatedly. So there is
a sense of honor there after all. -

It’s nice to know that students do think to do the honorable thing,
eventually. Now students should work on doing the honorable
thing, the ﬁrst time.

Ellie ﬂing-mm iﬁlti

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whimey Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cun'ent court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

  
 

The Rlng-tum Phl, February 4, 1 993

 

E: t

‘A:

J
. ‘k\‘illliu|:\'-- u.-I,“ ‘N V"“"“""
|‘ l ll

J.

Government conformity victimizes VMI  

LEXINGTON — The last time the
federal government tangled with Vir-
ginia Military Institute, the
govemment’s forces got cuffed around
at the battle of New Market by a

duced a record “replete” with convinc-
ing testimony that single-sex under-
graduate education can be beneﬁcial to
both males and females. It also held
that VMI’s “adversative” educational

Confeder- s y s t e m
ate contin- would be
§,‘,’;‘,§,,‘°§‘,§7' GEoRGE WILL “f“‘;",‘,"
men a
VM’ °:"d°‘5 Washington Post Writers Group a“°.""‘."y'
ages 15 to anditsdrs-
17. This tinctive
event is cel- e n d s

ebrated in a large painting in VMI’s
chapel, Jackson Memorial Hall, which
is named after Stonewall, who for 10
years taught “natural philosophy,”
meaning science, and artillery here.

Today the federal government,
which always has been a slow learner,
is engaged in an utterly optional ﬁght
with VMI. This time, unlike last time,
it would serve the national interest for
the national government to lose.

Founded in 1839, VMI is one of this
state’s 15 publicly supported colleges
and universities. Although its most
distinguished graduate was a military
man — George Marshall — most
graduates pursue civilian careers. How-
ever, all its graduates are men and this,
given the Zeitgeist, is the rub.

VMI’s enrollment is just 1,300 of .

the 160,000 students_ —-— a majority of
them female —‘— in Virginia's state-
supported, four-year institutions. But
in March 1990, the inscrutable Bush
adminisuation’s Justice Department,
egged on by the American Civil Liber-
ties Union and kindred spirits, ﬁled a
suit charging that VMI’s single-sex
admission policy violates the consum-
tional guarantee (in the 14th Amend-
ment) 0 “equal protection of the laws.”

The district court had to decide
whether VMI’spolicy is “substantially
related” to the achievement of “irnpor-
tant government objectives.” The court
ruled that the six-day trial had pro-

“thwarted” if VMI were forced to ac-
commodate the needs and interests of
women.

The “adversative” system strives to
mold and motivate students by stress-
ing (in the court's words) “physical
rigor, mental stress, absolute equality
of treatment, absence of privacy, minute
regulation of behavior, and indoctrina-
tion in desirable values.” First-year
cadets are called “rats” because the rat
is considered “the lowest animal on
earth.” This system is, the court found,
well -tailored to the developmental char-
acteristics of some adolescent males.

The court also noted the incoher-
ence of the attack on VMI: Giving
women access to this unique system
would necessarily alter the system fun-
damentally. Nevertheless, the Justice
Department, inﬂamed by the court’s
conclusion that VMI ’s system is “peda-
gogically justified,” appealed the ml-
ing to a higher court. There VMI won
what might be a minous victory.

A three-judge panel unanimously
agreed that VMI’s system is appropri-
ate and successful and justiﬁes its ad-
missions policy. But the judges, while
adhering to the principle that the 14th
Amendment does not per se proscribe
single-sex education, also held that
VMI’s all-male policy is an unconsti-
tutional denial of “equal protection”
unless and until Virginia either stops
supporting VMI or provides an identi-

cal program for females.

The court did not explain how to
square this circle: What is, for females,
identical to a system suited only for
adolescent males? (Bythe way, women
so inclined can participate in the corps
of cadets at Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute.)

Now VMI is asking the Supreme
Court to review this nrling which, if
allowed to stand, will sow uncertainty,
and hence litigation, about such ques-
tions as:

Can apublic school operate a single-
sex sports tearn—

say, a football bullying, VMI
team—without . . shouldexpectno
providinganiden- Notlce that 1“ the name better from the
goat; optréortunity of expanding “diver- nev{,§§§yvd- -
or eo ersex o - - s corps
participate in the s1ty”and enlarging free" of cadets
same sport? dom, governmental co- marched am
Can Virginia ' ° ' President
continue to give erclonlsbelngemployed Trurnan’s 1949
substantial state '50 make SCh00lS m0re inauguralparade
assistance,through ' andinallbuttwo
a 1 e, y snu mg out
tuition subsidypro- VMI, f .t of thenext 10. (It
grams, to ﬁve pri- S noncon orml 3'' was invited both
vate women’s col- Although the Bush ad- of those tirms,
leges as long as ° - t - - ~_ but one parade
there are notcom— mlnlstratlon partlcl fellduringexarn

parable and com-

parably assisted ~

men’s colleges? ‘
Can govern-

ment provide fa- crowd,

pated in this bullying,
VMI should’ expect no
better from‘ the new

number of single-sex educational 3p-
portunities. But much recent research

suggests that single-sex education can .
be helpful for some young people in 1

some settings (such as inner city ado-
leseent males). Fear of litigation will
inhibit potentially useful experimenta-

tion. '0
Notice that in the name of expand-
ing “diversity” and enlarging freedom,
governmental coercion is being em-
ployed to make schools more alike, by
snufﬁng outVMI’snonconforrnity. Al-
though the Bush administration par-
ticipated in Qlis

week, and the

have included
the entire corps
so VMI (be-

cilities for one sex
(for example, for
battered wives) merely because the
policy is based on actual differences
between the needs of the sexes?

Are state-mn “boot camp” penal
programs for young men impermis-
sible unless there are identical pro-
grams for young women?

Court-created confusion is particu-
larlyunfortunateregardingpermissible
educational policies. A 30-year nrsh to
coeducation has radically reduced the

clined.) VMI
was not invited
to participate in President Clinton’s
parade, and it is permissible to suspect
that the reason was VMI’s deviation
from political correctness.

When Clinton’s parade had passed,
his administration buckled down to the
pressing business of opening the mili-
tary to gays and lesbians. The issue, his
administration says, is tolerance of di-
versity.

other would not V

© 1 993, The Washington Post Writers Group

Clinton scores low on keeping pledges ’

WASHINGTON —Bill Clinton said some won-
derful things in his campaign for President. Not

small things. Big things.

It’s a reporter’s job to
remind him of those things
— whether he and his sup-
porters like it or not.

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

Clinton promised to be
the kind of President who

battles for people “who work hard and play by the
mles.” He promised to “stop the revolving door”
that allows big-shot lawyer-lobbyists to make con-
tacts inside government and politics, then exploit
Most of all, he
promised “Change!” How many times did we hear
that glorious word booming from the steps of the

those contacts on the outside.

U.S. Capitol Wednesday?

As I said, these are not small things. They are the
reason most voters supported Bill Clinton, why so
many of us you read on newspaper opinion pages
were impressed with him. Had Clinton run as a
“fixer,” some cynical guy who knew from experi-
ence how to grease the skids in Washington, we
wouldnot have given him the nation ’s highest office

this week.

Had he campaigned as a defender of the insiders
and lobbyists, we would have canned him before he
hit New Hampshire. Had he posed as an apostle of

the status quo, had he made “continuity” his slogan
instead of “change,” we would have laughed him off

judged by it. “Playing by the rules.” “Stopping the
revolving door.” “Change!” Those are worthy and
vital standards for this country at this time. More
important, they are Bill Clinton’s standards. Not
those of his critics. Not those divined by the media.

When Clinton talked in his long campaign about
people “who play by the mics,” we all knew who he
was talking about: the people who get to work each
day, come home to their families, struggle to pay the
bills —— including the taxes Uncle Sam takes out of
their checks each week. We’re talking out the men
and women who feel, sometimes, like chumps for
being honest when the big shots, the inside traders,
the sleazy lawyers, the welfare cheats, the deadbeat
dads chuckle at them for being so honest.

Instead of looking out for the folks who “play by
the rules,” Clinton named as his top law enforce-
ment official a wealthy corporate lawyer who ad-
mitted cheating on the immigration law and failing

the ballot.

No. Clinton won this
country’smostwonder—
ful position of trust by
insisting on a higher
standard.

And he needs to be

place.

to pay her proper taxes — in other words, not
“playing by the nrles.” ‘

Clinton also said he would “stop the revolving
door” through which political appointees gain con-
nections on one side of the door to convert into
proﬁt on the other. He said he would stop those who
fatten their resumes and Rolodexes in government,
then cash in later. He even printed the promise in his
presidential strategy booklet.

Is it wrong, then, to wonder out loud why Clinton
named the usual claque of Washington lawyer-
lobbyists to his Cabinet and transition team? Is it
wrong to wonder if voters who believed what Clinton
promised were chumps to begin with?

Finally, that word “Change!” our new President

spoke so often in his Wednesday inaugural.

This is the greatest disappointment of his transi-
tion. If Lyndon Johnson or Richard Nixon had’
named the people Clinton has to his Cabinet, there
could have been no complaint. They were business-
as-usual politicians from whom we expected busi-
ness as usual.

Bill Clinton set a higher standard. Ifhe chooses
to forget it, he needs to be painfully reminded of it.
Because it is the standard, even more than the man, 0
that many of us found so impressive in the first

© 1993, Tribune M edia Services, Inc.

Advocate explains honor procedures .

MY VIEW
By Dan Munroe, ’93L

Several weeks ago, the Executive

, Committee opened discussions about

White Book revisions. Since then, a lot
has been said about the issue of whether
or not to change White Book proce-
dures. As a former Executive Commit-
tee representative, honor advocate, and
Conﬁdential Review Committee ad-
vocate, I thought it might be helpful to
explain this controversial process in
less formallanguage, so that you are
aware of what actually happens before,
during, and after a closed hearing. Of
course, information about all closed
hearings and investigations is highly
conﬁdential, so this article deals only
with procedure which can be found in
the White Book itself.

Although I know that we all were

required to read the White Book our

ﬁrst year or freshman year, a review
may be helpful. No doubt, the thought
of any of us being investigated by the
EC is difficult to discuss. None of us
wants to even consider any of these
actions happening to us; yet the possi-
bility exists. This is our system, and we
must make sure we are satisﬁed with it.
Generally, here is what would hap-
pen if the EC took action against you:
1.‘ Information would come to the
president of the EC about a suspected
honor code violation you may have com-
mitted. This may be done with or with-
out your knowledge. It would probably
be done without your knowledge. The
information may come from a fellow
student, faculty member, or person out-
side of the community. ’
2. The EC president will then ap-
point two EC members and a member
from the student body to investigate the
case. They will speak with all witnesses
who have information concerning your

alleged honor code offense. If they
discover another allegation, they will
add it to the original charge. The in-
vestigator will take notes and collect
all data (which includes tests, papers,
etc.) relevant to your charge. The
three members of the investigation
team will then vote as to whether you
committed an honor code violation.
The non-EC member is then excused
from the procedure. The two EC
members of the investigation team
then report their version of the events
to the EC. If the EC members believe
that there is sufﬁcient evidence for a,
closed hearing, you will be charged
with having possibly committed an
honor code violation. At this point,
the EC has almost certainly not spo-
ken with you for the purpose of hear-
ing your version of events. In fact,
they won’t hear your version of the
events until a formal closed hearing
takes place.

i

3. The honor advocate now becomes
involved with your case. Before you
are fonnally charged, the EC president
and vice president tell the advocate
about the evidence against you before
you come into the EC room to et
charged. It is completely the §C

president's discretion to give you any I

information he believes will allow you
to understand why an EC witness is
being called to testify against you. The
EC gives you copies of tests, papers,

and other formal evidence against you. .

However, at this point neither you nbr

your advocate is allowed to examine _
the EC investigator's notes from the

investigation or to speak with the wit-
ness who will testify against you in the

\

closed hearing. Furthermore, regard- ‘

less of your stress level, which I guar-
antee you will be high, you may ‘nOt
talk to anyone within the Washington

C] see HONOR, page 3

l

9

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1993

‘Spos unveils Skipper the

§Pos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

An ode to a Fax Machine

0h fax machine, 0h fax machine,

You are the coolest oﬂice tool

Spewing forth your messages

. From druggies, freaks and fools.

You are the newest fad

in telecommunication.

Now I get to hear from fans

from halfway ’cross the nation.

F axes from old wealthy alums

named "Buzz” and "Skip” and

."Harry"

and everyone’ 5 favorite Kappa Sig,

The tripper they call Larry.

The time has come once again to
update the student body on everyone’s
favorite cult personality, you guessed
it, Larry Skipper. M

. Spos hates to persist in beating a
dead horse, but the forces within the
circles of the alumni have spoken, and
they have determined that the Larry
Skipper phenomenon deserves further

study. .Here’s the latest fax that has

come into Spos Central Command:
“To: Mr. Tom Hespos
“Subject: Larry!
“Comments: We’re just crazy about
l
“As president of the L.P. Skipper
Fan Club, I'd like to thank you for your
update on W&L’s hottest cult person-
\ ality. I've included some personal facts
about Larry that might be of interest to
many of your readers.

“Larry’s favorite alcoholic bever-
age: Fighting Cock Whiskey

“Larry’s favorite Lexington eatery:
Stop-In (N. Main location)

“Larry's favorite hobby: Smoking
(Two and a half packs aday), Sleeping.

“Most embarrassing moment while
at W&L: Appearing before SCC his
freshman year for indecent exposure
and possession of a ﬁrearm.

“Presently, Larry is working for a
gun/amrno dealer in Raleigh, NC."

(1"heFAX then says something about
Larry's encounters with the Lexington
Police, but it is incomprehensible.)

Before Spos dives headlong into
this silliness, he should express that he
feels a certain sense of journalistic re-
sponsibility toward his readership and
should remind his readers that one
should never mix alcohol and barbitu-
ates. Doing so might lead to corre-
sponding with one’s college newspa-
per on seemingly inconsequential top-
ics, as I’m sure is the case here.

I’m sure folks would like to see
Spos get to the bottom of this business.
After all, with all of the possible topics
Spos considered for his column this
week, (i.e., Bosnia, Somalia, Bob
Packwood’s deviant sexual practices,
etc.) the Larry Skipper phenomenon is

' definitely the more deserving of hav-

ing a quarter-page dedicated to it.

First, Spos assigned Rick Peltz, in- .

vestigative journalist extraordinaire, to
‘track down the folks that sent the fax.
While Spos went to get his trademark
coffee with milk and two sugars, Rick
worked hard to track down the perpe-

trators of the Larry Skipper conspiracy.
Rick managed to find out that the fax
was sent by a company in New Jersey
called Tektronix. When Rick called
Tektronix to find out who sent the fax,
the person on the other end claimed to
not know of any connection between
Mr. Skipper and Tektronix. Likely
story. I will assume that the Trotskyite
conspirators fled the
country in hopes of avoid-
ing Spos’ wrath. And
what the hell kind of a
name for a corporation is
Tektronix, anyway?
They’re probably one of
those hoplessly obsolete
software companies that
still make cartridges for
the Atari 2600.

With the Tektronix
lead thus coming to apiti-
ful dead end, Spos de-
cided to go straight to the
source, which is what he
probably should have done in the first
place.

With the assistance of the staff of
the Alurrmi Office, to whom Spos is
eternally grateful, we were able to track
down Mr. Skipper, who evidently goes
by his middle name, Pait. This was the
source of quite a bit of confusion. Mr.
Skipper claims to have no knowledge
of his being a celebrated cult personal-
ity, nor does he fully understand why
his name appears on bathroom stalls
across campus.

Larry/Pait offered an explanation
as to why he is referred to as “Skipper

Road Tripper

    

Sklpper 1 989

the Road Tripper”:

“I used to go down to Hollins a lot
when I was at W&L,” he explains.“I
dated a lot of girls down there.”

When Spos mentioned the mysteri-
ous Tektronix FAX, Skipper laughed
and suggested that the fan club was
nothing more than a vicious hoax per-
petrated by his freshman year room-
mate Tom Grow (’92).
And we thought this was
a worldwide conspiracy
designed to give W&L
students a case of the
willies.

For the record, Mr.
Skipper would like the
student body to know
that he can ’t stand Fight-
ing Cock whiskey and
Stop—In food.

He is not presently,
nor has he ever worked

lei gh. He also claims
that the SCC trial never happened, but
Spos isn’t so sure. What Spos is sure of
is that if he ever has to deal with this
completely inane topic again, he will
surely go on a domestic rampage with
a 20-pound sledgehammer.

Spos would like to thank Mr. Skip-
per for calling him before his deadline
expired. He would also like to thank
Rick Peltz for his brilliant, if inconse-
quential investigative work.

Just remember, when the forces of
evil are lurking about in conspiratorial
league with one another, Spos will be
there to keep the public informed.

Inside view of trial process personalizes Honor System

for a gun dealer in Ra— I

3»-Lfaotvs-straight as to,_wl;'at  _ \_
" "preparations as best you can-for yo closedii‘i' .
A 6. Your closed trial begins. The EC begins by-

;.I From HONOR, page 2

and Lee community for support.

4. Now you come into the EC room and are
formally charged by the EC president and vice presi-
dent. The advocate comes out of the president's
office and meets you for the first time. You and the
advocate have as little as 48 hours to prepare your

Dside of the story. You realize that within hours you
may be found guilty of an honor code violation and
asked to leave Washington and Lee, with “With-
drawn” starnped on your transcript.

5. You and the advocate prepare your version of
the events over the next few days. Any new informa-
tion or clariﬁcations about your case come from the

IDEC president, who heard the evidence form the EC
investigator, who receives the evidence from the
witnesses. Again, neither you nor your advocate can
speak with any EC witnesses to clarify any mix-up or

?a'rid‘,rri al

Erin’ misoommunication,-3Yeu  

calling its witnesses. Because you have not spoken
with these people before, this is your first and only
discovery period. You hope nothing comes as a
surprise and pray the witnesses testifying against you
tell a consistent version of the story. You and your
advocate have no time to analyze and discuss any
‘new evidence, and no time to figure out why a
" confusion or misunderstanding might exist. When
the EC is done with their questioning, you are al-

wt

lowed to present your case.

7. You then present the EC with your side of the
story. After the presentation, you are asked questions
by the EC. When the proceeding ends, you are told
that the EC will deliberate and vote. You wait for the
verdict, aware of the fact that your entire college or
legal education at Washington and Lee rests in their
hands. V

8. The EC members now deliberate. The two EC
members who collected the evidence against you and
directed the questioning of witnesses against you are
allowed to vote as to your guilt or innocence. If as
few as two-thirds of the members feel you have
committed an honor code offense, you are found
guilty by the EC and asked to leave the university.

9. Ifthe EC finds you guilty, the EC president tells
you the verdict. Dean Howison enters the room and
tells you your options. You may either withdraw or
appeal. This decision must be made within the next

72l130l.1l'Sz:'tH0WGY:eK_, if )’0l1.:d€Cid°,= I0 %D9&.’<1.1-LhﬁI,e is. =:
another,punishmen.t~ if you are follkndi gu_iltyjin an H
open‘ hearing, the mark on.-your transcrip,L'will,-be. ,,

changed from “Withdrawn” to “Dismissed.” Not
only will you have that to worry about, but the trial
will be open to the entire student body. Lee Chapel
will be packed with your peers. A jury of your peers
will vote as to your innocence. All United States
federal and state criminal courts in the country re-
quire a unanimous jury to find you guilty. Under the
White Book provisions, if as few as 8 out of 12jurors
believe the EC, you will be dismissed.

I am proud of and have great respect for our Honor

System. We are especially fortunate with this year’s
EC. My concern is that some members may base
their conclusions on an incomplete presentation by
the accused and his or her advocate. Thus, given the
procedures which I have just discussed, a reasonable
to substantial chance exists that a member of the
community could be wrongly convicted. This is
wrong and unacceptable.

I understand that members of the student body
may well disagree with my position. If so, I hope you
support any student ninning for next year’s EC who
opposes change to the White Book as it now exists.

If you feel changes are in order, I hope you
support candidates willing to make changes to the
White Book. Either way, I hope you have learned
more about the process from this article and will take
a position on the matter. ,

You are the community which the White Book
serves. You are the students whom we as advocates
.ass.isI., .How.e.vs%rv .w§:.zisSi§t.x9ii.9ii|,x as,fa.r..as we are
allowed under the current White;_B ookprovisions. In
the ‘end, tlie_ operii_tioitf_, and ,existence_' of ,the honor
code is your decision.

Finally, I would like to thank the EC publicly for
bringing this issue back into the spotlight to be
examined by the student body. During a recent EC
meeting, the members were interested in the honor
advoates’ ideas and assured us that a memo we
prepared would be considered at their March retreat
at Skylark. I’m sure any member of the EC would be
interested in discussing your opinion on this matter.
I hope they hear from you.

‘     Sally Mann feature nauseates student

controversial art shows like this one

. To the Editor:

I am utterly appalled by the
‘centerfold of nude children in last
week’s Phi. '
What was the point? The usual
format of the Phi does not donate two
whole pages to highlight local talent,

so why bombard your audience all of
the sudden with this pornography? I

lcnow that First Amendment rights al- *

low freedom of expression of such
photos, but I would rather not partici-
pate in the exploitation of young, inno-
cent children for the photographer’s
monetary gains. I seriously doubt that

these children want the world to see
them naked, nor does it give me any
particular pleasure —— actually it left
me feeling nauseous. Fine, maybe
some perverts out there enjoy “art” of
this style.

My suggestion to these “elite” is
that they attend one of the,numerous

that our government pours money into
as the national deficit steadily rises. I
truly believe that the Phi couldfind
higher quality material for its feature
articles.

Nikki Hodurski, ’95

Interviews and Photos
'By Darran Winslow

_ What would you do

   

Greg Smith, ’96, Albany, N.Y. —-
“I’ve got two words... road cheese.”

/

few nudie bars across the campus.”

TALKBACK

Beach, Va. — “Pants down parties.”

Women’s Forum

Women's Forum will meet Sun-
day, at 6:30 p.m. in the Women’s
Center.

Beneﬁt

A trivial pursuit tournament to
benefit the Rockbridge-Lexington
Scholarship Fund will be held Feb.
20 at 1:30 p.m. in the Maury River
Middle School Cafeteria. Just $5 to
play, and prizes include free meals
at area restaurants. Questions? Call
Pat Knick at 463-3129.

Lecture

There will be a public lecture by
three leaders of the Yakutian inde-
pendence movement entitled
“Yakutian Autonomy” tonight at
7:30 in the Commerce School room
327.

Needed

Dance choreographer for a spring
term musical production at the
Lenfest Center. Questions? Call
Prof. Martinez at 463-8802 or 463-
8805.

Men’s LAX

The men’s lacrosse team needs
managers for ﬁlming, scorebook and
away games. Ifinterested call Coach
Stagnitta at 463-8678.

Calyx

You can still sign up for Calyx
senior pictures. Schedule sheets are
located outside Carol Calkins’ of-
fice in the University Center. Se-
niors must sign up or submit their
own pictures to the Calyx office by
Feb. 10. Questions? Call Anthony
at 463-4352.

Film‘ Society I ‘

The Film Society will present

“The Double Life of Veronique” on

Friday and Saturday, at the Trouba-
dour Cinema.

LOSt

Grey XXL W&L sweatshirt, cof-
fee stains on front. Taken from

Doremus gym last Tuesday night.
Call Allen 463-2422.

Black History

In celebration of Black History
Month, Ms. Faye Wattleton, former
president of Planned Parenthood,
will speak Wednesday, Feb. 24 at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

 

. Management .will hold an informa-
 tion session on Wednesday, Feb. 10

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

Repubﬁcans

College Republicans will meet
Tuesday, at 7:30 p.m. in the Mock
Convention office. Drug abuse will
be discussed.

Admissions Job

The W&L Admissions Office is
now accepting applications for an
anticipated admissions counselor
position. All interested graduating
seniors should submit a cover letter
and resume no later than Monday,
March] to the Admissions Office.

Alumni Job

Members of the Class of '93
who wish to be considered for
W&L’s alumni staff position in
1993-94 should apply by March 1.
Graduating seniors should submita
letter of application and resume to
James Farrar in the Alumni Office.
A personal interview for each ap-
plicant will be required.

FOC

The Freshmen Orientation Com-
mittee will meet Thursday, Feb. 11
at 6:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women's Center. Attendance is
mandatory.

CD&P

Upcoming events in the CD&P
office: resume and cover letter
workshop Monday, Feb. 8,4-5 pm.
in the University Center room 109,
resume critique all day on Tuesday,
Feb. 9 in the CD&P office, inter-
viewing workshop on Wednesday,
Feb. 10 from 4-5 p.m. in the Uni-
versity Center room 109, and the
resume drop deadline for March
companies is 4 p.m. on Friday, Feb.
12. Also,‘ the Office of ‘Personnel

at 4 p.m. in the University Center
room 114. Personnel ‘representa-
tive Susan Holland will discuss the
best opportunities for federal em-
ployment, application procedures
andcompleting federal employment
application forms. Come with your
questions and comments.

WLUR

The WLUR weekly album fea-
ture, Jesus Jones’ “Perverse"' will
be broadcast Monday at 9 p.m.

Humor Columnist

The Phi is looking forabi-weekly
humor columnist. If you can do the
job, submit a sample to room 208 of
the University Center or call Fran at
463-8581 (office) or 464-5737
(home).

 

PatMcKenna,’96,PacificPalisades, Jane Finney, ’9S, Virginia Beach, Va. and Francie Cohen, ’95, Virginia Sampson — “I‘d like to see a few Andy Woodring, ’93, Short Hills,
Calif. — ‘‘I would definitely scatter a

more bitches at the parties.”

to improve Washington and Lee’s
social scene?

NJ. — “I really don’t know, I don’t
get out that often.”

 

 

By SEBASTIAN CROSS

Phi Contributing Writer

“If the students of Wash-
ington and Lee will in the
future remember that they
are grown men and conduct
themselves as such, I know
that VMI cadets will do the
same.”

After ﬁghts this year be-
tween students and cadets,
this statement rings of recent
vintage. But the author was

Student Body President
Howard Dobbins, writing in a March
1942 letter to The Ring-turn Phi.

Rivalry and conﬂict between the
two schools is not a new development.
Virginia Military Institute and W&L
have been atodds with each other since
the creation of VMI in 1836.

Originally it was not the students,
but the administrators of the two schools

who battled each other in Lexington.

According to Ollinger Crenshaw’s
“General Lee’s College,” following a
proposal to change the armory that
bordered Washington College into a
military institute, the college faculty
petitioned the Virginia legislature to

locate the school elsewhere in the state.

The faculty worried that the exist-
ence of the two schools in Lexington
would result in the demise of one of the
institutions.

The petition was denied, and the
state established VMI.

In VMI’s early years, W&L mili-
tary science students trained and drilled
at the institute, wearing distinctive
stripes on their uniforms to separate
them from cadets. It was then that the
nicknames “rat” and “mink” came to
be, Crenshaw said.

W&L students coined the term “rat” during
the joint drills, and the cadets responded with
the term “mink” for their antagonizers.

According to Henry Wise’s history of VMI,
the cadets used the term “mink” for W&L men
because they were “so mean and sly in their

contact with the cadets.”

A W&L story attributes the nickname to
W&L men who shrewdly stole the cadets’
girlfriends. Joint training ended in 1846.

According to an August 1986 Roanoke-
Times & World News article, the two schools
had a chance to make history during a football
game scheduled for Oct. 23, 1869.

The game was canceled because of rain, but,
had the teams played, it would have been the
first recorded American collegiate football
game, preceding Princeton and Rutgers by two
weeks.

AT-MINK RIVALRY

Friction between W&L and VMI recalls-

nearly 100 years of neighborly competition

 

The first football game in the South was
played four years later between the schools,
with W&L coming out on top, four goals to two.

According to Crenshaw’s book, the first
major incident between the schools came after
a W&L-Columbian College football game in
October 1897.

After the game, a group of W&L students
celebrated in a horse-drawn wagon, which they
drove up to the VMI parade grounds.

Cadets were drilling in formation and
blocked the path of the cart, causing the minks
to utter jeers and imitate military orders over a
megaphone.

When the cadets were dismissed, they rushed
the cart, throwing stones. The can escaped the
onslaught, but several W&L students on foot
were seriously injured.

The next afternoon friction escalated again
after a W&L student hit a cadet who ordered

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1 993

FEATURES

File photo
The presence of female students is not the only obvious difference between W&L and VMI.

him off the sidewalk in front of the barracks
gate. The cadet called his brother rats, and the
ensuing mob chased the assailant, throwing
rocks. Several students were injured, one seri-
ously.

As a result, a meeting of the W&L student
body almost ended in a free-for-all against VMI

scufﬂe broke out, prompt-
ing the letter from BC
President Dobbin.
During World War II,
the cadets were commis-
sioned to enforce the
blackout in Lexington. On
one of their patrols, they
invaded a fraternity house

voked by its members.

One hundred cadets
swarmed into the house
and attempted to drill its
members in the street.

Continued heckling
from the students escalated into a
fight until authorities calmed the situ-
ation.

The high tension surrounding the
event probably caused later incidents
of all-out cadet raids on fraternity
houses. _

Retired Lt. Col. Mike Strickler said
one such raid in the 1960s resulted in
major destruction of two fraternity
houses. The cadets marched in front
of the fraternities on their way to
church following a major social week-
end at W&L.

Students on the fraternity house

cans and snowballs until the cadets
were ordered to break ranks.

The cadets charged into the houses
to clear out the occupants, causing
serious injuries and damage. Several
keydets were charged with crimes
and had to pay for the damages.

Antagonism between the two
schools did not always involve vio-
lence. George Washington’s statue
on Washington Hall was painted in
VMI yellow and red many times
through the years, and the minks re-
taliated by decorating the statue of Stonewall
Jackson at VMI.

, , Other traditional pranks, such as toilet-pa-
pering campuses and moving the VMI can-
nons, marked the lighter side of the rivalry.

Conﬂict almost erupted when a group of
W&L students stole the cannons and put them

before President in Red Square.

William L. Wil- A group of
sonsteppedinand cadets showed
pleaded with up to reclaim

those assembled
to investigate the I
incident before

   

.,,,.;2*.r'§‘«?'v‘*-”"

their posses-
sions, and a vio-
lent encounter

takingaction. was narrowly
A small riot - " averted when
did break out af- police arrived.
ter a W&L—VMI VMI Mu-
baseball game in seum Curator
1902, at a time Keith Gibson

when there had

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Staff Writer

A group formed by’ twin brothers to
bridge the gap between«Virginia "Military
Institute and Washington and Lee is finally
taking shape. .

Jason Durm, a W&L junior, and his
brother Martin, a VMI cadet, began plan-
ning their group in October.

Now they have members, prospective
community service projects, afaculty advi-
sor and a name for the group—The Preston
Society. p

Jason attributed the increase inmember_-

article about the group written in The Ring‘-
tum Phi and a noticeghe placed in General
Notes. « " 3 '

The group currently has 10 members,
but Public Relations Manager Tom I-Iespos
appealed to the Interfraternity Council Tues-
day hoping to entice one or two members of
each fraternity to participate.

the armouncement will show significant
support for the project.
The group chose the name Preston in

ship, a turning point for the group, to an’

Jason said he hopes the response from"

Generals, Keydets   

recognition of a W&L alumnus who helped

. ‘form. VMI in the 1800s, Jason said.

“It's a community name and I hope
Prestons in the community won’t be of-
fended,” Jason said. “I think the name ties
us hr with the community more.”

The main goal of the group is to serve
the Lexington community. The Dunns and
other members created a list including
RARA, RARO and the city manager to
contact for possible service projects. The
group will meet Wednesday to ﬁnalize
plans for community service projects.

“We’l1 organize community service in
which both [W&L and AVMI] can come
together and meet each other,” Jason said.
“I'm.»pretty confident with all these con-
tacts people are making, a project will
come out of this.” -

Despite past conﬂicts between students
from the two schools, Jason said he has
heard ‘no negative feedback about his
group’s attempt to smooth relations be-
tween VMI and W&L.

He said most people realize the neces-
sity to work with the cadets rather than
against them.

“Some have gone as far to say it’s a good
idea,” Jason said.

stones, bayonets,
brass guns and
blasting powder.

sidelines and taunting both players and oppos-
ing fans.

A question over a long ball being fair or foul
was followed later in the game with a close call
at the plate.

The spectators swarmed around the players
and the umpire.

The fight that broke out caused the schools’
administrations to discontinue future meetings.
The game was called on account of darkness,
ending in an 8-8 tie.

There were few recorded incidents between

 
      

GO.

t-M

lfopyright 1993, Great Eastern Resorts. WL

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.I

rn student to
chairman of the board.

Grab your snowboard and show everybody at Massanutten you
mean business. All our slopes are open to snowboard skiing, along with
our challenging half pipe. Ski Massanutten any Monday or Friday after
12:00 pm for our College Days rates, just $14 for a lift ticket with your
valid college ID. Bring this ad and you'll receive an additional $2 off the
College Days lift ticket rate. lessons and limited snowboard rentals are
available. So come on, join the fun. And prove who’s the boss.

Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

r"o"Mr1cs"i=;':§§{E§r i-1'.-Ir'}r’sS}rbu?g. \7r?gin"{é Sr?"R}$u:c Escs

  

  
  
    

the rats and minks until 1942. when a notable
Cannondale - TREK — Diamond Bk i
Jansport day packs and book bags

     

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main St.

Mon.-Fri. 9-5ISat. 9-12 Noon

said in the mid-

_beenla’_lon‘g,bit_ter,. 1970s, loud’
«feudbetween the I cheering from a 7

students and ca— 1 Homecoming’ '
dets. rally sent runrors

In the fray, through VMI
students used that W&L stu-

dents were plan-
ning to attack the
institute. .

The incident The VMI
strained athletic guard team was
relations until called out, and
theywereeventu- the gate to the
ally discontinued barracks was
in 1904 after an— closed.
other violent A group of
baseball game. W&L students

The 1904 ......... .. took up torches
baseball game pm, photo and advancedas
was 3 heated Lexlngton parades are not exclusive to W&L fa’ as ‘he VMI
mawh’ Wm‘ fans Homecoming and Mock Convention weekends. 33” b"'f°’““"“
wandering the ingaround with-

out incident.
» Confrontations today between W&L and
VMI are different in character from those in the
past. Fights reported in the news this year have
been more isolated incidents than general up-
risings of school-against school.

The Preston Society, a new organization
formed by students and cadets jointly, promises
landmark cooperation between the two groups.

Though a rivalry will probably always exist
between the two schools, perhaps the Preston
Society will move the competition into more
suitable arena.

453-7969

TGI IF’

OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount

Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive
merchandise from America ’s most famous mail
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men ’s and Women ’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -

Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 — reduced to $7.99

Lexington

Downtown (Robert‘E. Lee Bldg.)

Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

after being verbally pro-

balconies pelted the cadets with beer A

O

1; by

August

‘ ;Strindbcrg

, dirucludlvy .
I

 

premieres.
tonight

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Contributing Writer

The Washington and Lee theatre de-
partment, at the request of a senior drama
major, will present August Strindberg’s
1888 one-act masterpiece, “Miss Julie.” 3

Erin Walsh asked the theatre depart-
ment to produce the play so she could play
the title role for her senior thesis.

“I’ve always been intrigued by ‘Miss
Julie’,” she said.

Walsh’s intrigue is an understatement
of the shock playwrights of the 20th cent
tury have felt in response to the controver-
sial content.

Strindberg’s goal to revolutionize the
theatre of his time was accomplished with
the creation of “Miss Julie,” one of the
first plays to address sexual, issues.

In the play, Miss Julie is fondled by her!
farnily’s servant, Jean. She teases him to I
the point that leads them to engage in sex,
said Rich Cassone, who plays Jean.

Cassone compared the controversy of
“Miss Julie” in 1888 and the early 20th
century to that of the Mapplethorpe pho-
tos in today’s society. Cassone also said.
that he feels sorry for the character of J can.

“I play it with a great deal of sympathy.

I certainly don’t respect him,” Cassone
said. “He is an oppressed minority. I can
',"unders'tan”d Je"ari"s need to rebel.”

Jean battles with his role as a man and
his role in society, all the while toying.
with Julie’s emotions. ‘

Jean dresses in elegant clothing re- I
gardless of the uncertainty in his physical
cleanliness.

“He wears his frock coat with elegance
but gives no assurance that he keeps his
body clean,” Strindberg said. “If Jean is.
the sexual aristocrat he is the social slave,
just as Julie is the sexual slave but the..
social aristocrat.”

Juliewas raised in a sexually confused
household,which created a tormented and
unstable character. Her mother, an ardent
feminist, pushed Julie into assuming char-
acteristics similar to a man’s personality
while her aristocratic father was content
raising a well-marmered lady.

“Julie is very confused,” Walsh said.
“She’s been stripped of her identity.”

Cassone said the rehearsal process has
been both physically and mentally drain-.
mg.

“Regardless of whether you like the
play or not, it’s such a great play for
actors,” he said. “It’s very philosophical.
I find it a draining play to watch.”

Walsh agrees that the play demanded
intense character introspection.

“In every rehearsal something new
comes out in our character.”

4

Valley  J

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.rn.-6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1-5 p.rn.
463-2186

CRAFT s PLUs,”rN'C.”

GAMES. HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5 ‘
31 S.Main St., Lexington 463-3355

COMING SOON . . .

SHARKS

Across from the Bone

  

The Ring-tum Phl, February 4, 1993

. Music Review

 

By REBECCA CROW
Phi Music Columnist

JESUS JONES

PERVERSE
( EMI 9)

    

’England’s Jesus Jones has returned to intema-
tional dance halls with a new look, but a familiar
exciting sound on the new ,EMI release Perverse.

Jesus Jones, who took their name from apopular
Spanish ﬁrst name and combined it with a common
British surname, are one of the few dance bands with
an.obvious rock heritage.

They couple techno-rave jams with steady, puls-

. ing rock rhythms.

Although they emerged from England’s dance
halls on the heels of bands like the Happy Mondays
and the Soup Dragons, Jesus Jones sought to remain
separate and distinct, says lead vocalist Mike
Ethvards. It worked.

Perverse is a very diverse LP which ranges from
the typical dance beats to mellow “swaying music”
to riffs with a touch of technological grunginess.

The LP’s ﬁrst single, “The Devil You Know,” is
alreadytoppingthe
charts of college
radio stations
across the nation.

While possibly
not as strong, the
song follows the
dance tradition of
the 1991 hit,
“Right Here, Right
Now.”

Also following
this tradition is the
playful “Zeroes
and Ones” which
is aimed at the computer——oriented generation that

 

. has emerged worldwide.

es, binary numbers have seeped out of computer
sc'ence and into college radio.

In contrast, “Spiral” ﬂirts with the eerie and

unidentifiable, fluctuating gracefully (believe it or

not) between typical horror——ﬂick background music 6

and bursts of acid house-inﬂuenced rock.
The result is pure, embraceable chaos.
‘Together, the songs create musical contradiction
and confusion that one somehow expects from this
radical British band.

STAR
(SIRE/REPRISE)

 

The dissolving of the Throwing Muses’
songwriting team of Tanya Donelly and Kristen
Hersh made many a music lover cringe. But Donelly
emerges triumphant from the breakup with a spec-
tacular new band, Belly.

Rarely does a band seem so unique, and at the
same time appear to combine a variety of distinctive,
yet different
sounds.

L7, the Sun-
days, Lush, and of
course,theThrow-
ing Muses.

But why make
comparisons be-
tween Belly and
these bands?

The result is
fresh, new and ex-
citing.

But Star is an
invitingly nostal-

 

gic album.

Almost surreal, the vigorously developed lyrics
provide striking images from something reminiscent
of a child’s dream sequence. '

From dead babies to decapitated baby dolls to
witches, Donelly puts a twist on what one expects to
hear.

On “Feed the Tree,” the LP’s first single, fonner
Muses bassist Fred Abong displays his prowess on

itar.
gu “Gepetto” and “Untogether” team up to describe
the relationships and friendships of children.

The former treats the kid from a bad home, while
the latter tells of children who recount outrageous
stories or make huge demands upon others.

“Angel” and “Sad Dress” are the two most
danceable tracks.

But one should not expect dance music from
Donelly, a follower of swayers like Edie Brickell,
who rely upon theircrazy lyrics andplayfully soulful
voices to carry the songs.

Star closes with “Stay,” a beautiful song about
shattered hopes and dreams, about which no one
cares.

Donelly should not be speaking of herself here,
for Belly displays the promise of great things to
come.

    

PAGE 5

FEATURES

3 new LPS get thumbs up

BELLY

THE THE

DUSK
( EPIC )

 

The first new release since 1989 The The’s LP
Dusk reflects the wear and definition of time.

While much slower than the last two efforts,
Mind Bomb (1989) and Infected (1986), Dusk
draws upon bluesy, jazzy soul that expresses pas-
sionate and sincere integrity.

Just as dusk represents in literature the beginning
of darkness, a time of reﬂection, so too do the songs
on this soul searching LP reflect a sense of introspec-
tion.

The harmonica driven first single, “Dogs of Lust,”
acts as a prediction of what to expect from the LP as
a whole.

Lead singer Matt Johnson describes their latest
album as, “10 songs for the lost, lonely and lustful.”

“Love Is Stronger Than Death” is an acoustic
ballad that emits an optimistically poetic view of
life.

Here, with the help of former Smiths guitarist
Johnny Marr, Johnson croons,“Here come the blue
skies, Here comes springtime] When the rivers run
high and the tears run dry./ When everything that
dies/ Shall rise.”

“Slow Emotion Replay” demands that people
correct themselves before criticizing the world.

“Lonely Planet” carries the theme further, say-
ing, “If you can’t change the world, change your-
self.”

The The re-.

verts to the night
club solo piano
sound on “This Is
The Night” and
“Bluer Than Mid-
night.”

While the style
differs from the
earlier songs, the
theme remains
constant: intro-
spection.

Dusk is a very
solid, unified album that well represents the talents
and visions of The The.

It should serve both to embrace the old fans and
welcome the new.

Crow is assistant rock manager at WLUR.The
station received promotional copies of these three
albums.

 

Colonnade Crossword

    
 

ACROSS ° ‘2 3
1 Attention-getting
word
5 Embroidery
thread
10 Distant
14 Portend
15 Lasso
16 Strong wind
17 Hideaway
18 Put money into
the pct
19 Peru city
20 Out of existence
22 Navy bigwig
24 interjection of
annoyance
25 Fold of cloth
26 Punish
30 Dummy
34 That girl
35 Kind of energy
37 Go away
38 God of war
40 Twangy
42 US reformer,
Jacob ©1993r ‘b M d‘ s ' I
43 ggynséed the All Rigiitslrigaeseéivtgi emces' nu
45 W‘”d°W Last week’: answers:
sections 7 Cereal grain
47 Ex-GI 8 Pilfer
48 Pitfalls 9 Cause grief
50 Pleasant 10 Shining
manner 11 County event
52 Male servant 12 — mater
54 Golfer’s need 13 Genuine
55 Like another 21 Cashews
58 Damaging 23 Postman's
62 —- Clapton burden
63 One who casts a 25 Rustic
ballot 26 Friendly talks
65 Legend 27 Wading bird
66 Carry 28 Place for
67 Draw out sports
68 Sea bird 29 Blow
69 Busy insects 31 Relinquish ,
70 Looks for 32 Climbing plants
71 Costly 33 Exams
36 Indian princess
DOWN 39 Armed forces
1 Proficient 41 Stem talks
2 Practical joke 44 Transaction 53 Eat away 59 Rider's fee
3 Amend copy 46 Prophet 55 Bristle 60 Arm bone
4 Deserves 49 Drudges 56 Press 61 Look at
5 1/4 or 1/2 51 Covered with 57 Catcher's glove suggestively
6 Cotton castoff screening 58 Mild oath 64 Calendar abbr.

Faculty Committee freezes
student reserves

50 years ago in the Phi — The student activities reserve
that was frozen for the duration of World War II totals
$6,000. The money is turned over to a special faculty
committee, which will decide when the student body is
capable of controlling the mone a ain.

Five ears ago in the Phi- he acultyvotes to take the
Inter raternity Council out of the Rush scheduling rocess
and give it to the Student Affairs Committee. In ot er IFC
news, invitations handed out at women’s colleges must now
have the name of the invited on it, as well as the name of the
fraternity member inviting her.

._

 

D

MEET THE PRESS

The Ring-tum Phi Invites You

To An Open House

At The Phi Office, University Center ,

Friday, February 5,  
ll a.m. - 4 p.m.

    Talk About The Phi With Us,
   And See How Your Newspaper Is Made.  

.-.,----.-.--,—....-.-,--.. . ..

 

 

PAGE 6

BIG THREE...

EC candidates talk about Honor System

11. What is the role of the Honor System at W&L today?
  2. What changes would you make to the White Book?

Ames Hutton,’94,
for President

1. “The Honor System is the most
important aspect of the university, and
it pervades every aspect of student life.
I feel arenewed emphasis on the Honor
System both in and out of the class-
room is important in maintaining the
system. I feel the EC is responsible for
the maintenance of the system, but
equally important is the student body's
dedication and responsibility [to the
Honor System].”

2. “I think that a more open system of exchange between the EC and the
advocates would be beneficial to both sides....There are two proposals in specific
I think [a student White Book review committee] should think about—whether
there should be a harsher penalty for appealing to an open hearing and whether
investigators should be allowed to vote in a closed hearing.”

 

Jimmy Kull, ’94,
for Vice President

1. “I don’t think the Honor System
has changed much in the three years
that I’ve been here. I see it as the main
reason students are attracted here. It is
the dominant force in academic life,
and it is inﬂuential outside of academ-
ics as well.’’

2. “There should be more commu-
nication between advocates and inves-
tigators and possibly more students
involved. Maybe investigations should
have two students and one EC member
instead of two EC members and one student. The student body in general needs
to be included in a serious look at the Honor System so they can determine what
honor means to the current student generation.”

 

Maurice Cole,
g ’94,
_ for Secretary

l.“I think the Honor
System today is a work-
ing system, but it is only
as good as the people
living under it. I think
students have become
slack,andIwould chal-
lenge students to implement the Honor System out-
side the classroom.” *

2. “I think it’s up to the student body to decide and
I would like to be the representative of people to do
that. I think it’s a shame that’felony crimes that are
punishable by jail time in the state of Virginia, such
as murder and assault, are not considered. It’s wrong
that a person could go to jail for murdering someone
or raping someone and, when they get out, could be
considered aestudent in good standing.”

 

      

seems like we punish the
fairness.”

 

the SCC does a good job in conduct matters.”

2. ‘‘I definitely think the single sanction should
not be changed. I don’t think there is gray area. When
-an honor violation is committed, there is no such
thing as a minor violation. We should think about the
notation ‘dismissed’ when someone is convicted in
an open trial and ‘withdrawn’ in a closed hearing. It

Bob Tompkins,
’90, ’94L,
for President

1. “The Honor System has and still
does apply to classes and to social life
as well. This broad coverage makes
W&L a special community. That spirit
of community is the main reason I
came back, and I hope the students
continue to respect and cherish it. I
hope next year that students will take
part in the revisionsof the WhiteBook.”

2. “At this point, I would not per-
sonally make any fundamental changes
to the Honor System. But there are several issues that should be examined by the
student body next year that were outlined well in Rector Miles’ letter to the EC.
We should look into the history that surrounds the issues, determine the relative
merits of the proposals, decide which merits are the most important and decide
how the process surrounding the White Book should take place.”

 

James Rambeau,
’91, ’94L,
for Vice President

1. “The Honor System is all-en-
compassing and promotes trust. The
EC facilitates that trust, not only at
school, but in the community at large.
The Honor System instills values that
students will cany throughout their
lives and into their professions. Stu-
dents should feel a need for the Honor
System."

2. “First, we should clearly define
what is meant by ‘executive session’ so the student body doesn't have to worry
about action being taken behind closed doors. We need to clarify what we mean
by intent—it’safuzzy area that needs aclear deﬁnition. We need to guarantee due
process. Students need to trust the Honor System and know that when someone
is brought up on an honor violation, it is not adversarial, it is fact-ﬁnding."

 

Ashby William Toles,
Hackney, ’94, ’92, ’95L,
for Secretary for Secretary

1. “I think it'spretty
clear —— neither lie,
cheat nor steal. If you
expand it beyond that,
you’re giving the EC
the potential to create a
Star Chamber. I think

1. “The role of the
Honor System is to

dent respects every
other student in the
W&L community.The
honor code is very im-
portant and [the EC’s] job is to make sure any
member of the student body who is brought up gets
an impartial hearing.”

2. “I think we need to investigate the White Book.
We need to revise it in terms of the current student
body. The controversy last spring term stirred inter-
est in the Honor System and we definitely need to
review it.”

 

appeal. It’s a question of

Interviews by Gregory Patterson, Phi News Editor

‘ make sure every stu--

 
 
       
       
 
      
     
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
       
     
     
     
  
  
  
  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 197'

 

 Aggarwal, 4
’94L,
for President _

1. “I think the current jurisdic-
tion of conduct violations and ha-
rass_ment is good. As chairman, I

ha held sensitivity training to try_
. * n judgesfto handle sensitive"

  

, [lnterfraterniftyi I
_dence tomake

everything except. straight-o‘ut
sexua1.harassment.'Anythi_ngelse'——
verbal harassment, racial cases—
the SCC is ‘qualiﬁed to handle.”

2. “I think it would be somewhat
the way it is now. There should be
stricter penalties for dirty msh, but
if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.”

     
 

   
  
   
  
   
       
     
       
     
         
       
       
     

    

  

A funny thing horppened_
on the way to the forum...

...-.Clnd you_didn’t hear the condi-
dotes’ speeches. But you can still

VOTE

Big 4, Monday  
Big 4 Run-offs, Thursday,

Call today for an appointment to
discuss your Fancy Dress gown.
Professional seamstress with
years of experience.

Betty Wilson
463-4431

Sure to please - “Looking Good” Gift Certificates
for those special Valentines. Mary Kay Cosmetics for
women & skin management for men.
Gentlemen and Ladies call Lorie Sadler 463-6379

4-

S

pring
CANCUN, NASSAU
from $299
Organize a small group for FREE trip
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

Break:

SPURTWEAR

 

15 VV. WASHINGTON ST
LEXINGTON, VA 24450
703 464-3000

Now Carrying Merrell Hiking Boots

:7
W

         
     
     
         
           
       
         
       
     
     

W&L Art

1870 Washington College Diploma
signed "R.E. Lee”

Signatures:
RE. Lee, Jr.
John Letcher
Edward Valentine

Ma Lee
Fitz ugh Lee
M.Mi1ey

W&L Copperplate re-strike. hand-colored
W&L and R.E.Lee limited edition art
Sculptures by Ron Tunison
George and Mary Washington pieces

rhirirwtrs
lilllllllll

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

 

L _ itkifﬁ V]
1 Dance Class f0!‘ FD Borden Commons Condo
7-8 p.m. & 8-9 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge on Feb. 3rd.
(Frank Rupus - Helping stundents get ready for FD For over 10 years!) a

$5.00 per person, Pay 1 hour, stay 2!

  

W&L tudents, we welcome you to our Barber Sop for
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St., Lexinton - Below First American Bank

t

    
      

 

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

 
      

   
 
 
  
 

11 W. Nelson Street Robby Jones
Lexington, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022
7/// //////////////////
/
/

 

 
 

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
 \

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

and Accessories

/ 23 N. Main St. (703) 463-5988

(703) 464-6464
L¥

  

g Lexington, VA 24450
 

  

\

 .

 

1-"D Is Right Around The Corner
Reserve Your Ad In This Year's ~
Phi 1-"D Supp

  
  

          
       
       
     
       
       
       
   

lement r
Call 463-8581_ 

 

Two Bedroom, Two bath, Living room, Dining room,
Kitchen, Utility room, Storage area, stove, refrig.,
washer/dryer, microwave, Central heat & air, wall to
wall carpeting, no garage tax.

Call 463-4634 or 615-373-2095 0

4

1
§ For Sale By Owner
i

¥¥¥¥¥-V-¥¥4V-¥-Y-¥¥-V-¥-¥¥¥

 

Student Housing For Rent
Houses within city limits:
107 McLaughlin - $800 for four students .
Houses in the county:
Rt. 39 - 1 mile off Rt. 11 - $800 for four students
Mt. Vista - 3 miles west on Rt. 60 - $900 for ﬁve students
Turkey Hill - Rt. 602 off Rt. 631 - 4 miles from town
$600 per month for three students or
$800 per month for four students 6
Duplex apartments: 605 Allen St. A & B °
2 Bedrooms $325.00 each apartment

EXCELLENT .
, EXTRA INCOME NOW! ' ,
ENVELOPE STUFFING -- ssoo - $2300 every week — 
Free Details: SASE to I
' International Inc.

1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn. New York 11230

   

 

 

  
 

I

_The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1993

  

REDUCED PRICE

SMITHFIELD

. SLICED
BACON

«.99

40 - 50 COUNT

MEDIUM
SHRIMP 

I

  

 

' the opponent shoot 70 per-

'l€HII.EAN PEACHES,
mums on
NECIARINES

Cl LBo
YOUR CHOICE
3“ '1'.

 
   

*2.’-

DIET PEPSI OR

9

PEPSI COLA

2 may
3

  

 

 

PAGE 7

enerals continue fall
in ODAC standings

‘ 5 D FADE, from page 8

give up that many easy baskets, and let

The Marlins were still basking in
the glow of handing Emory & Henry
their first ODAC loss of the season last
week. But W&L was pre-

cent. pared to derail their con-
“You’re not going to win tidence train.

when you shoot 30.6 percent If you take out the im-

and let the opponent shoot 70 portant number, the score,

percent,” head coach Verne all but one of the halftime

Canﬁeld said.“Wejustdidn’t
get back on defense and they
took full advantage.”

But then the team’s Jekyll
andHyde complex tookover,
and the second half turned
into a halfway decent one.

Canfield admits Guilford probably
couldn’t keep up their torrid pace for
40 minutes, but his team's play made
him wonder why they can’t do it more
often.

“It’s happened a lot to us this year.
We just haven’t put halves together
like we’re suppose to,” Canﬁeld said.
“I turned to my coach [assistant Bill
Raleigh] and asked him why we
couldn’t play like that all the time.”

The Generals were outscored in the
first 54-25, allowing Guilford to make
21 of 30 shots. In the second, W&L did
the outscoring, 35-27, allowing the
Quakers only 8 of 15 from the field.
Two very different halves, same result
as the last four games, a loss.

The loss dropped the Generals to 4-
13, 2-10 in the ODAC. The loss funher
diminished W&L’s chances of making
the ODAC post-season tournament. But
Cantield said the team couldn’t quit.

“We have to stay as positive as we
can because there’s still a chance. But
it’s a dilemma, you don’t get conﬁ-
dence until you win, but you don’t win
until you gain some conﬁdence. We
just have to keep working hard.”

Well the Generals must have de-
cided that the season could still be
salvaged because they came out in-
tense against the Marlins last night.

 

Carter

stats favored the Gener-
als.

They were shooting
52.6 percent while hold-
ing the Marlins to 40.6.
W&L held the rebound-
ing edge, 19-10.

The one stat that didn’t favor the
Generals was one that hurt the most.
W&L turned the ball over 16 times.
Those 16 mistakes translated into 32
shots for the Marlins, they only made
13, thus the low shooting percentage. It
also limited W&L to 19 total shots for
the half.

Again, you can’t win with numbers
like that.

‘‘It’s hard to your offense when you
can’t hang onto the ball,” Cantield said.

The Generals trailed 30-23 at the
break and Canfield said he “still had a
good feeling” about the game. But it
only got worse.

The Generals continued to shoot
well from the ﬂoor, but not from out-
side the 3-point arc. For the game, the
Generals shot 1-for-10.

W&L continued to turn the ball
over, though. They gave away 12 more
in the second and the Marlins took
advantage, putting up 33 more shots in
the final 20 minutes to ﬁnish 29-for-
65.

The ﬁnal score was 77-59 and could
have been worse.

Now the Generals are in a do-or-
don’t-make-the~tournament situation.
W&L inhabits 10th place in the ODAC.
They host 9th-place Eastern Menno-
nite College Saturday and play at 8th-

placeLynchburg nextWednesday.The
top eight teams make the post-season
tournament.

Canfield said the EMC game is a
double-edged sword. He has to decide
if it’s better to tell theplayers how vital
the game is, or just go about it as just
another game.

“It’s a two-sided question. But the
kids don’t need the extra pressure,
they’re under enough already,”
Canfield said.

Another difﬁculty will be keeping
the players’ minds on basketball.

“It’s going to be tough. I have to
wrestle againstpeople seeing how many
games are left. Ican’t give up on them.
I'll work them hard, maybe even harder,
to keep them interested because we
still have a shot.”

Really the biggest problem for the
Generals the past eight or nine games is
that they seem to totally collapse in one
aspect of the game. For example, in the
Guilford game, the Generals transition
defense took a holiday; against Vir-
ginia Wesleyan, turnovers killed them.
This makes it difficult for Canfield to
try and tix the problems.

“It's not like there is one problem
we can specifically work on in prac-
tice. With the turnovers, Idon’twant to
psyche them out, so I'll tell them to
take care of the ball, not don't turn it
over.

“I can’t discourage or disappoint
them. I have to remain positive.”

With the tournament on the line, the
Generals need little more incentive to
play hard. But Canfield said it should
not be just the tournament.

“Our motivation should be that it’s
our ﬁnal home game, and the ﬁnal one
for our seniors. And I want to give the
fans something because I know they’ve
been wanting to get behind us and I
know we’ve let them down.

“We have everything to gain and
nothing to lose.”

W&L honors fall athletes

» . country).
By 3.5;“ O RSURKE Bo Hannah and Keith Rinn (men’s cross country).
~“"-  P‘ I: ‘p°"SjE "°r Leslie Hess (volleyball). : - r *
There was more thanjusta basketball game being played Evans Edwards gained recognition as a GTE Academic
at the Warner Center last night. All-American.

At halftime of the basketball game between Washington
and Lee and Virginia Wesleyan, fall athletes who earned
special honors during the 1992 season were recognized by
the W&L community.

Josephine Schaeffer had one of the most notable fall
seasons. She became the first W&L woman cross country
runner to earn All-American status.

 

   
 

   

/

(I5. 4?
.. ((311 USAir

REGISTER TO WIN IN
HARRIS TEETERS

ELY WITH THE

HORNETS

SWEEPSTAKES

You Could Win One Of These Fabulous
Prizes. See Details And Register At The
«I Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter.

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando
Florida For The Game With Orlando
Magic, Includes Air Fare On U.S. Air
Accommodations And Game Tickets.

a0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,
N.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes
Game Tickets & Hotel Accommodations.

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call I-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

' 0 One Pair Of Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away
In Each Harris Teeter For March/April Games.

Find Details And Register At The Coke

-L

CRACKERS ............ ..l6 oz. 0

SELECTED 1.75 OZ. SOL/D OR

BAN
ROLL-ON ........... .. 1.5 oz.

ASSORTED

EAGLE BRAND 
CHIPS .................. .. 6 oz. 0

    ....-gs/.99  
 79 Men’s record still perfect;
'59 women drop second straight

Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter.

SLICED TO ORDER
LITE
BOLOGNA

99

IN THE DEI.I-
BAKERY

LB.

 

Schaeffer placed twelth at the national meet, and helped
lead the Generals to their best cross country season ever.

Leslie Hess and PJ. Waicus finished their careers at
Washington and Lee by becoming one of the two top players
in their respective sports.

Hess achieved noteriety by becoming one of W&L’s all-
time leaders in women's volleyball.

Waicus help set a new standard for goaltending for the
W&L water polo squad.

Not all the athletes who earned the recognition were at
the halftime festivities. But those that were covered almost
every fall sport.

The honorees that attended the ceremony were:

Evans Edwards, Marc Newman and Duane Van Arsdal
(football).

Greg Golub and P.J. Waicus (water polo).

Josephine Schaeffer and Amy Mears (womcn’s cross

Prices In This Ad Eliective Wednesday February 3 Through

ue ay, February‘? I993.

° I-'[_OR[DAGOLD BUY ONE PKG. or
ORANGE WOLFERMAN '5
JUICE  ENGLISH
ITIIIIIEIEIIEIIS MUFFINS
FROM OUR DELI-BAKERY AT
'2 REGULAR PRICE AND GETA
OZ. . srcouo PKG. .
0 FREE.
«» Prices Effective Throu h February 9, 1993‘

In Lexington Stores

Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

Cl AQUATICS, from page 8

Both Sheets and Fisher think the
team ought to beat Hollins on Thurs-
day, and are optimistic about the
women’s chances in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament.

“The scoring system hurts us be-
cause we don’t have a lot of swimmers,
but I think we have a good chance,”
Sheets said.

Sheets contributed a strong second
place finish in the 100-freestyle versus
F&M.

“We have some of the best swim-
mers,” said Fisher. “I think we ought to

get most of the top spots.”

After the Hollins meet, the women
host Mary Washington College along
with the men this Saturday.

Page Remi1lard’s team, meanwhile,
has been on a hot streak all year long
and hasn't seemed to come up for air.

Senior Andrew Pearson won two
races: the 50 and 100-freestyles. He
also anchored the winning 400-freestyle
relay team.

Sophomore William Rowe was first
in the 200-breaststroke and second in
the 200-IM, which freshman Craig
Sears comfortably won in 2:04.30.

The Generals racked up several

points with a second through fourth
claim in the 200—backstroke, and also
took three of the top four spots in the
100-freestyle.

The 400-free relay of David
Stillman,Justin Dardani,RolandChase,
and Pearson touched with a time of
3: 18.53, winning by nearly three sec-
onds.

The men have a week off following
the Mary Washington meet. On Feb.
13, the Generals will head south on I-
81 to compete with Radford.

They will then prepare for the Emory
Invitational, which takes place Feb.
18-20.

     
   
       
   
       
    
    

Needed: Editors and Business Managers of
University Publications

Positions Available: Editor & Business
Manager of the Ring-tum Phi, Editor &
Business Manager of the Calyx, Editor of
the Ariel, Editor of the Journal of Science,
and Editor of the Political Review.

Letters of Interest for Ring-tum Phi
positions due February 22, 1993;
Interviews - March 1, 1993

Letters of Interest for all other
publications due March 8, 1993;
Interviews - March 15,1993

 

Last Week:

Bball- Va. Wesleyan 77,W&L 59 (4-14)
MSwim- W&L 106,F&M 95 (7-0)
WSwim- F&M 109,W&L 62 (6-2)
Wrestle- York 42,W&L 9 (4-5)

PAGE 8

S

Ellie iaing-tum {ﬂirt

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

This Week:

Bball- EMC 2/6 7:30; at Lynchburg 2/10 _
Swim- at Hollins 2/4 (W);

MWC 2/6 2:00 (M&W)

Wrestle- at Va. State Toum. 2/6

IT- at VMI Relays 2/6 (M);at Pepsi Invit.

2/6 (W)

FEBRUARY 4, 1393

Sandsleads
at Gallaudet

By MARK SAPPENFIELD it’s difﬁcultto make up the twelve
. - points we have to forfeit.”
H" Staff wmer Freshman Rob Sands contin-

Washington and Lee head
wrestling coach Gary Franke
continuedto shufﬂe the top quar-
ter of the line-up to achieve the
best match-ups this past week-
end at the Gallaudet Invitational
in Washington, D.C.

The team won two and
dropped two on the day, leaving
their season record at 4-5.

Franke parted with any sort of
set ladder, and started some wres-
tlers who usually don’t see much
action to give some of his starters
time to rest and heal.

“Rob DeClerk[sophomore],
Cary Hansel[sophomore] and
Beau Kingijuniorl all saw some
action, so it’s nice to have those
guys who make a lot of our trips
get a chance to participate,” said
Franke.

The Generals opened the tour-
ney with a 27-19 win over
Rutgers-Camden, then lost to a
comparable Ursinus team, 35-
21.

Franke was most concerned
with the Ursinus loss.

‘‘I thoughtthat we were still in
the Ursinus match until we got
into the upper weights. We lost a
couple in the upper weights that
really hurt us, but that was a
really good match for us.

“If we could’ve turned a
couple of things around in our
favor, we would’ve been victori-
ous,” Franke said.

W&L finished the day by fall-
ing to a superior York squad, 42-
9, and then shelling host
Gallaudet, 41-6.

Franke said he empathized
with the situations of Rutgers-
Camden and Gallaudet.

“Rutgers-Camden and
Gallaudet were in the same situ-

ued to pace the team by going 4-
0 in the invitational, raising his
record to a tearn-best 16-6.

Sands continues to be the
Generals best wrestler this sea-
son. He registered 15 takedowns
on Saturday, eight of them alone
came against Mark Sutin of
Ursinus.

Sands had 20 takedowns en-
tering the weekend. He also led
the team in wins with 16,
takedowns with 35, escapes at
16, reversals with 11, two-point
nears falls with 5 and even three-
point near falls at 8.

Sophomores Eric Shirley and
Adam Williams went 2-1 , and 2-
2 respectively, to remain above
.500 on the season. Williams is
6-4, Shirley is 9-7.

The only other wrestler who
owns a season record above even
is freshman Colin Looney.

At 5-2, the 190-pounder
shows signs of becoming the
greatly needed ﬁxture in the top
third of Franke’s lineup.

Looney also completed the
invitational with an unblemished
of 4-0 mark.

Franke is excited about the
prospects of having a solid wres-
tler at a position that has been
troubling for the team for most of
the year.

“1ooney’s coming around. As
he gets more mat time at 190, he
gets himself in better wrestling
condition.”

The Generals will head into
this Sunday’s Division II and III
State Tournament at Longwood
looking to compete with teams
they’ve seen before, like
Longwood and Newport News
Apprentice. W&L will also run
into talented teams they’ve yet to

ation we were in, competing with see, like Norfolk State.

a limited line-up. When we com- Wrestlers like Sands, Shirley,
pete against a team with solid and Williams will be inpositions
wrestlers at each weight class, to place individually.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

Derek Carter (40) and Bryan Bradlng get set to run the Generals half-court offense
against Virginia Wesleyan. Carter scored 1 1 and Bradlng seven In W&L's 77-59 loss.

VV&Lk;

shot

at tourny ‘

fadesfast,

By SEAN O’RouRRr2
Phi Sports Editor

There are poignant moments
in all our lives that seem to deﬁne
just who we are.

If you were one of the fans at
the Warner Center for the Gener-
als game against Virginia
Wesleyan last night, you might
have seen that poignant moment
for the W&L basketball team.

With less than 10 minutes
gone in the first half, freshman
Derek Carter and senior Bob
Ehret tried to rtm a pick-and-roll.

Ehret set a good pick and
Carter cut around it perfectly,
losing his defender in Ehret’s
chess. Ehret discarded the Mar-
lin and rolled towards the basket.
Carter let ﬂy with a perfect lead
pass, but Ehret became entangled
with his own defender, and the
ball sailed harmlessly out of
bounds.

lt’s painful to say, but that
was the defining moment for the

Generals this week.

Despite playing tough against
averyta1entedVirgirtiaWesleyan
team, the Generals dropped an-
other game, and more impor-
tantly, another Old Domimion
Athletic Conference game.

On Saturday, the Generals
took a van ride to Greensboro,
N.C. to take on the Guilford
Quakers. W&L took it squarely
on the chin, 81-60.

The Quakers became the ﬁfth
straight team to shoot better than
60 percent from the floor. '
Guilford came out ﬂying against
a very lethargic Generals team.
The Quakers ran and ran and ran
all over the place for the first 20
minutes. g

W&L’stransition defense was
unmercifully pounded by the
quicker Quakers. Guilford re-
corded eight uncontested layups
in the first half. Eight! You don't
win basketball games when you

U see FADE, page 7‘

Swim teams stay competitive at F&M meet

By Krsmr GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams traveled up north to
Pennsylvania ,to take on Franklin &
Marshall, Saturday.

Unfortunately, the teams took differ-
ent routes from there.

The men maintained their undefeated
status with a 106-95 win. They are 7-0
with two meets remaining before the
Emory Invitational after mid-terrn break
and the NCAA Championships next
month.

The women’s record, however, fell to

6-2 after a 109-62 loss. The team had
begun the year 6-0.

The two defeats have come largely due
to opposing teams with significantly larger
rosters. F&M had only 12 swimmers, but
the Generals were two members short.
The six that competed for W&L were just
in over their heads by taking on a team
with twice as many swimmers.

“It would have been much closer if we
had everyone,” said sophomore Susan
Fisher.

Fisher contributed as much as she could
for the Generals, placing second in the
200-Individual Medley and third 200-
backstroke. She also led off the 200-

freestyle relay that edged F&M by just
over a second.

“They had a couple of really good
swimmers,” she said. “I don’t know if we
could have won, but it would ’ve been a lot
closer.”

Senior Claire Dudley claimed the
team’s only individual win by taking the
50-freestyle. .

Dudley, the squad’s only senior, won it
with a time of :26.28, 1.4 seconds ahead of
second place.

Dudley nearly won the 200-breast-
stroke, missing by just .3 seconds, and
anchored the victorious 200-free relay.

The women had to compete without

sophomore Marina Vasilara and fresh-_
man Rebekah Prince. Vasilara is conﬁng

off an ankle injury that is still bothering '

her, but she will be available for Thursday
night's meet at Hollins College.

“It’s not great, but I’ll compete,” said
Vasilara. “It should be a really good com-
petition.”

Prince, a freshman who has alrcidy
entered the W&L record books, has been
ill but is also expected to compete.

“Everyone’s been getting sick, but we I‘
should all be ready, now,” said freshman’ ‘

Jill Sheets. V
U See‘ AQUATICS, pag§_7

 

When he’s not playing football or lacrosse, Robert Hull is making sure he stays
competitive in his pre-med major.

‘WV’?

3:5‘ ' -:=:-:-:- :«.-:-:-:-.-:- '=‘5'=il4'1'='¢'l‘5" "

'.'-I-I-H-'-I _-I-:-: '-C-' 1-:

 
   
  
  
 

-I-C-I‘-D-I-1-Is‘.-E-'-I-I-I-T.-Z-C-H-I:. "C":':":‘:"H"C i-:-c '\.'

igeeéﬁe

1/2 Rack- $5.99

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The F?ing—tum Phi

I ‘pl ..-
uu -

      

All-U—Can Eat $4.99

- '.-.-.- .-.- .-.-.-.-.-.-

King cut $13.95

   

Hu|l’s a hometown success

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Contributing Writer

So many awards banquets, so
little time...

This may have been freshman
Robert Hull ’s dilemma last year.
He played four sports for Lex-
ington High School, and raked in
armloads of honors such as Most
Valuable Player of the Virginia
East-West All-Starfootball game
and state heavyweight wrestling
champion.

Hull was recruited for three
different sports at W&L, but only
football coach Gary Fallon and
lacrosse coach Vince Stagnitta
were lucky enough to land him
on their rosters this year.

r-C-C-I-'2':-I-C-I-I-I-I-1-I-I-I-I-I-C-I-I-C-:-'1-I-I-I-C-2-'-I-1-:1:-'I-.-I-.-.-.-.-.-.-i-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.'i.-:'E'€-2':-5-H-I-' I-H-I-I-1-I-I}!
.
III

Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

at

Truck Stop 

Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99
Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable
Whole rack- $10.95

Saturday Night Prime Rib
Queen cut $11.95
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.

4 miles North on Route 11
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell

p

:-:-:-:-:-:-:-t-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-.-:-.  :-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-: '-:r:-:r:-:-:-:-' ' :-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:  _

 

But the decision to trim his
workload downto two sports was
merely one of timing.

“I couldn’t wrestle and play
lacrosse, so I decided to concen-
trate on lacrosse, ” Hull said.

The General’s track and field
team may have also lost a versa-
tile athlete in Hull, who com-
peted during high school in the
shotput, discus, 400-meter dash
and 400-meter relay. But alas,
the freshman decided to devote
his time to his two favorite sports.

Hull noted that the competi-
tion in college football was high,
which made it quite different than
in high school.

“I didn’t play very much—
we had a great senior squad,” he

xv.-I-I-:-

  

 

said.

As a defensive lineman, Hull
spent this year backing up the
Generals’ talented front—four. But
it gave him time to learn and did
not diminish his enthusiasm.“I’m
looking forward to playing more
next year,” he said. “We’re go-
ing to have a really good squa .”

When it comes to his abilities
on a lacrosse field, Hull, a
midfielder, is modest. “I’m only
good enough to make the team.”
However, he does enjoy the “hard
but interesting” practices.

“It’s a lot of fun playing with
the caliber of players that are at
W&L,” he said. “Not only are the
upperclassmen great, but the
freshmen are really good, too.

of

There's a lot of competition.”

One would expecta two-sport
athlete to have very little tint to
spare, and Hull does claim that
he is “very busy.” But the multi-
talented freshman ﬁnds time to
participate in the Big Brother/
Big Sisterprograrn in Lexington, ,
and volunteers at the hospital,
working with a radiologist in
nuclear medicine and the radiol-
ogy lab. :

With his work at the hospital
you might have guessed Hull is ,
on the pre-med track, and if he ‘
continues to perform as he has in
the past, the W&L commugity
will be cheering him while he’s
in the classroom, not to mention '
when he’s on Wilson Field.

.  World Treasures for the Children

liesterdav, Today. 8: Tomorrow

  
   
 
 

 

..._
" "r
rd Credit Cards? : STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLAlITATION.FL 3331 . _ _
  r _ ciudrotromcs
....,..... '::.‘:..t°.." 3:.::*:".:.“:.2.:’.:.:3r..":.°::.::°.;’§::::e'.°.:.':.* I YES! Iwanmsao/MASFERCARDQ c-an .  * “°*° - W W i
cn.-dn cardsrln your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed Ilnd s'5 which is 100% refundable it not a ggggl; 5?;";E
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 1URNED DOWN BEFORE! ' approved jmmedlateb, . TOSHBA MARANTZ
VISA!’ and MmterCard® the credit cards you I I KEF CWD
deserve and need Ior— lD—BOOKS—-DEPARTMENT 1 NAME . BOSTON DEFINITIVE
Sr0REs—1‘UIT|oN—ENTERTAINMENT— . . KUPSCH BAZOOKA
EMERGENCY CASH—TlCKE'lS-RES'l‘AURAN'1S— ' ADDRESS ' . SRRARER TRADE up PROGRAM
HofrELs—Mo'rELs—GAs-CAR REN'rALs- ; gtg§§‘§wWcn0N PLAN
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY STATE _ ZIP I . ,,,.,,,,,,;“,*,.‘,,"g'C‘;“C§’§,:’;‘,§f'“‘"*
I I - we SERVICE MOST BRANDS
“ﬂy '   ' - MASTER CARDIVISA/DISCOVER
I . -
'5" were: No credit I SIGNATURE I (800)468-6667
msglﬂaago 5:‘ "0 SEC|ll'1_tY deDOS1t! ' mm: MasterCard is a registered trademark d‘ Mrmerorru lntcrnallornl. rrre ' Corner of Ogden a. Starkey Roads
gun” 9‘ 6 I Visa Is a registered tndennrk or VISA us». Inc. Ind vrsA tmermuorar I Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
ou “ Approval absolutely guaranteed so 3 smug Murlulon 100% GUARANWEM . 2750 osden Road- Roanoke
I I
1 1 1 - — 3 1 Z I t Z 3 3 I Z 2 C 3 C I Z I 2 Z Z

I C , ,

 

 

A for using such a

THE INSIDE STORY

~ Chi: iﬁng-tum Iﬂlti

 

A . SPECIAL SUPPLEMENT

By RICHARD WEAVER

Phi Reader Relations Coordinator
.1}

The Ring-tum Phi was first
printed on Sept. 18, 1897, a private

» money-making venture by a stu-

dent named J. Slusser. He served
ePlIi business
manager and used
the Phi’s income
to pay his tuition “'
for Washington
and Lee.
ThePhi’s name
cane from averse
inapopular W&L
football song.
Whentheﬁrstedi-
tor printed the
song’s1yrics inthe
Phi’s fourth issue,
he received a let-
ter scolding him

    

song, which in-

cluded the word “hell,” and print-
i itontheﬁrstpage,no1ess.This
s all scandal helped create stu-
dent interest in the newspaper,

I which was not widely distributed,

and contributed to its survival.

Already in existence at that time
was a magazine called The South-
em Collegian. Founded in 1868,
the Collegian served as a quarterly
literary journal, as well as a report
of university debating societies.

The Collegian later came to in-
clude news articles for a time, be-
fgre reverting back to a literary
journal. The Collegian welcomed
the Phi for taking up a role that it
could no longer fulﬁll, that of in-
fonning the Washington and Lee
community about everyday issues.

Starting with the ﬁrst Phi editor,
are tradition of each editor hand-
picking his successor was estab-
lished. This practice continued until
the rum of the century when it was
decided that the positions of editor
and business manager would be
ﬁaled through general student body
elections.

The Ring-tfum Phi.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

The result of these open elec-
tions was a degeneration in the
Phi’s quality, as some editors were
elected because of football ability
and general popularity, with no
regard to journalistic prowess.

Phi editors wereknown to take
offforthe weekend and, as a result,
there would be no
issue the next
week. The issues
that were pub-
lished became or-
gans for certain fra-
ternities, political
points of view and
honor groups.

In 1920, recog-
nizing these prob-
lems,tlIe editor and
business manager
of the Phi joined
the editors and
business managers
of the Calyx and
the Collegian to
form the Publications Board. The
board helped improve the quality
of W&L publica-
tions heads and re-
placedthe method
of election. By
l937,ithad estab-
lished the process
it still uses today,
choosing the pub-
licaI:ions’ heads it-
self, without the
student election.

However, the

 

the Pub Board to sign slips saying,
“I pledge on my honor that I will
vote for the following candidate

When an editor defied the
Clique’s agenda in 1934, the group
simply disconnected him from the
paper. His name was removed from
the staff box and a more loyal
Clique member was named “act-
ing editor” for the rest of the term.

The Clique’s power over the
Pub Board faded away in the late
1930s, after the dean of students
persuaded the Pub Board to pass a
constitutional amendment more
speciﬁcally deﬁning terms of mem-
bers’ elections.

The Clique continued to exer-
cise inﬂuence over other campus
organizations until the early 1950s.
It awarded control of various orga-
nizations to certain fraternities and
other groups of individuals.

In 1930 there was a movement
to change the Phi’s name to some-
thing that the readership could re-
late to better than an old football
s o n g
verse. The
P h i
printed a
series of
editorials
calling for
a vote to
determine
if the name
should be
changed.

new method of In the
election (and the end, a let-
Pub Board itself) ter signed
began to become by“Alum-
controlled by a nus” con-
campus-wide vincedthe
group of power- editors
fulstudents called that the
the“Clique.”The P h i ’ s
Clique decided a n a m e
week or two be- wouldbea
forethePubBoard link to the

election who the new publication
heads would be and passed its
agenda by requiring members of

EXECUTIVE EDITORS

past for all students who would
ever attend Washington and Lee.
The movement to change the name

NEWS EDITOR

C/\'l‘llRY.\' L()Pl(‘.COl_() /\.\'D RICIIARD PELTZ

The executive editors supervise the editing and design of all sections of the Phi and handle all
rywspaper personnel. As heads of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board, the executive editors discuss
and form the newspaper’s policies. In addition to their responsibilities on the editorial side of the
newspaper, the executive editors are liaisons between the editorial, advertising and business staffs.
The executive editors also serve as ofﬁcial representatives of the Phi and coordinators of public

service activities.

It SPORTS EDITOR

 

SI-:A.\' O’RoI.:RI<I«:

The sports editor selects a single sport for
each term that he reports on exclusively. The
sports editor is responsible for assigning re-
ﬁorters to keep track of all W&L sports and

designs the Phi sports section.

 

FEATURES EDITOR

JOYCE BAUTISTA

 

The features editor assigns feature articles,
stories that look at news from a different angle
or focus on community interests. The features
editor is responsible for features editing, design
and layout, as well as ﬁnding art for features.

GREGORY PA'l'l'ERSO_\'

 

The news editor is responsible for the selec-
tion, assignment and editing of news stories.
When the stories are completed, the news editor
lays out the news pages. The news editor also
recruits new reporters and serves as a member
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

was abandoned.

During World War II, the Phi
ceased to exist and was replaced
by “The Columns,” which billed
itself as a “war-time successor to

years after Vietnam.

One of the most memorable
people of the Phi in the 1980s was
its 1983 editor, Todd Smith. Smith
was the son of Robert P. Smith, Jr.

theRing-tum Phi.” a Washington and
The Columns pub- Lee alumnus who
lished 59 issues, was instrumental
everyFridayofthe in the destruction
college year, until of the Clique’s
1944. power over all stu-
The Columns dent organizations
was hampered by in the 1950s.
the high turnover Todd Smithwas
rate of its editors. very devotedto the
In oneinstance,an Phi — during his
editor was elected senior year, he
one day and failed all of his

drafted into the
military the next,
never having put a
Phi together.

In 1944, Wash-
ington and Lee's
student newspaper was discontin-
ued altogether. Buttwo years later,
with the end of the war and the
return to normalcy on campus, the
Ring-tum Phi was published again.

Starting in the late 1950s, two
separate Ring-tum Phis were pro-
duced. One Phi came out on Tues-
days and the other Phi came out on
Fridays. Each Phi had its own set
of editors, facilities and staff. The
two Phis created competition, thus
making each newspaper better.

By the late 1960s, however, the
Phi had become singular again and
returned to one issue per week. Its
editors, following the anti-war
mood of the day on college cam-
puses, were activists. The Phi was
known to call for the resignations
of professors whose viewpoints it
disagreed with.

In 1973, the Phi narrowly sur-
vived aPub Board proposal to shut
down its production. A new editor
was elected and charged with
changing the Phi ’s content and for-
mat. At this point and throughout
thelatter part of the decade,the Phi
becamemore conservative, follow-
ing the mood of the campus in the

The people behind the Phi

 

EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

classes during fall
tenn to focus on the
paper. He had to
come back for an
extra semester to
graduate.

In 1989, Smith was investigat-
ing drug trafﬁcking in Peru as a
freelance journalist when he was
abducted, tortured and killed by
Maoist Shining Path guerrillas. The
Shining Path suspected him of be-
ing a U.S. drug enforcement agent.

In 1990, a fellowship was estab-
lished at W&L inthe name of Todd
Smith, to be awarded to qualiﬁed
students willing to do academic
work in and learn the culture of a
foreign country.

In 1992, Phi Executive Editor
Richard Peltz received the fellow-
ship and spent spring term of 1992

FEBRUARY 4, 1993

‘Ring-tum phi, stickeri bum’

Since 1897, through the Clique and wartime, the Phi covers W&L’s news

in Costa Rica studying the media
and press laws there.

In the past year, The Ring-tum
Phi has updated its technology and
production through the use of desk-
top publishing. The purchase of
three Macintosh computers has in-
creased the staff’s creativity in lay-
out and design, has made produc-
tion more efﬁcient and has already
saved the newspaper thousands of
dollars in production costs.

During their tenure, current Ex-
ecutive Editors Peltz and Cathryn
Lopiccolo have worked to make
the Phi more independent and more
realistic from abusiness standpoint.

The most obvious change yet is
the new Phi subscriptions policy
enacted in 1992. Instead of receiv-
ing a donation from the Executive
Committee, the Phi now sells a
bulk student subscription that the
EC may choose to renew or dis-
continue each fall and winter.

In addition, all faculty and ad-
ministrators now must pay for the
Phi, so student funds are not used
to pay for faculty papers. In the fall
of 1992, the administration rejected
an offer for the bulk purchase of
Phis for all faculty members.

Peltz and Lopiccolo are cur-
rently working with the EC to draft
and pass amendments to the Stu-
dent Body Constitution. The
amendments will update the con-
stitution to reﬂect current EC poli-
cies and will give the EC and the
Phi a greater measure of freedom.

The Cheer
Each other’s back, boys, Has got a knack, boys,
For making gains, sir, Round the end. '
And it’s a sin, sir, For Oberlin, sir,
To buck the V.M.l. boys’ line so awful hard.
Then join the yell, boys, And yell like hell, boys,
Let’s give a rousing, rumbling, roaring, football yell.
Ring-tum phi, stickeri bum!
We are the stuff from old Lexington.

MALLORY MI-:YIzRs

 

The photography editor coordinates photo
assignments with the news and features editors
and coordinates staff photographers. The pho-
tography editor is also responsible for making
sure all photos are developed in time for layout.

    

FR/\.\'CESCA K12

 

The editorial page editor is responsible for
the design of the editorial and op-ed pages. The
editorial page editor compiles columns and
letters, monitoring all the contributions in terms
of the Phi’s standards of libel and obscenity.
She is also a member of the Editorial Board.

RICIIARD WEAVER

The reader relations coordinator develops
and organizes the newspaper's public service
activities. This year's projects include estab-
lishing a Ring-tum Phi scholarship fund and a
memorial to the late Professor of Journalism
Clark E. Mollenhoff.

SENIOR COPY EDITOR

‘rwv-»__

READER RELATIONS

 
 

NIKKI MAGAZINER

The senior copy editor proofreads incoming
articles for grammatical errors and Associated
Press style standards. The senior copy editor is
also a staff reporter and works on Wednesday
night layout. The senior copy editor is a mem-
ber of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

BUSINESS MANAGER

Wlll'l‘NI-IY SWIFI‘

The business manager is responsible for
advertising and subscriptions billing, in addi-
tion to keeping up with the Phi’s accounts
payable. The business manager also keeps
abreast of the Phi’s overall ﬁnancial status.

 

SUNDAY

The Ring-tum Phi editors meet to review and critique the
previous week’s issue, and to go over the coming week’s
stories. The Editorial Board chooses a writer and topic for
the next staff editorial.

MONDAY

The features editor assigns stories, two weeks in advance
of publication. Features stories for the next issue are due in
the afternoon for editing.

  

The Phi staff poses for a Calyx picture.

WEDNESDAY — A.M.

The executive editors read all copy, and editors make
corrections on computer. The Phi has three Macintoshes in
a network, meaning the memory of any one computer can
be accessed from any other. The computers have transla-
tion software, so they can accept copy typed on the
university’s IBM computers. Copy editing is done in the
Microsoft Word program, and layout is done on Aldus
PageMaker. The features and editorial pages are com-
pleted by Wednesday noon, freeing the computers for
news and sports. Pages are printed on the Phi’ s laser printer
in tiles, which are put through a wax machine to make them
adhesive and then assembled on actual-size layout sheets.

Editors crop and line photos at The News-Gazette.

‘   ‘lie I'ni‘g of The ’Rir'1-‘t

TUESDAY

News stories for the week’s issue are due for editing by the
news editor. The business staff produces a list of ads for the
week, and the executive editors lay out the ads, deciding how
many pages the newspaper will be and which pages will be
dedicated to which sections. Forthe opinion section, letters,
My Views, and General Notes are due at noon. Christopher
Matthews’ column comes by mail, and George Will’s col-
umn is faxed. The editorial page assistant types copy for the
opinion pages. Talkback copy and photographs are due to the
editorial page editor. “Storyboard” begins at 7 p.m. All
editors and reporters meet to discuss story ideas for the issue
that will come out in nine days, assign stories to the writers,
and assign photographs. The editorial page editor and fea-
tures editor design and lay out opinion and feature pages.

 

A News-Gaze technician prepar a page.



 

Stories go though several stags of eding.

Phi editors lay out their pages on Aldus PageMaker after sketching a “dummy” ayout by hand.

 
 

The editorial srarr meets on Tuesday nig

    

xx

WEDNESDAY — P.M.

News stories are prepared for placement in Pag
Sports reporters bring in their stories. The pho‘
editor finishes all developing and goes over negati
the news and executive editors to decide which
print. At dinner time, the executive editors and ne'
design the news pages. The news and sports editor
their pages on PageMaker, then assemble their prir
The cartoonist brings in his cartoon, and the edito
editor lays it in.

 

ig-trh Phi’

  
  
    
   
   

The news section always begins on the front page and
often extends to other pages. The name of the newspa-
per, underlined by the volume, number, placeof publi-
cation and date, is called the flag or nameplate. The
front page includes the week’s most important stories.
Sometimes longer stories jump to inside pages. In
design, editors try to make several entry points on the
‘ v c front page, places which attract the eye to start reading.
The teaser boxes at the top of the page highlight stories
inside the paper. The Phi does not use anindex box
-because the paper is short enough to be perused quickly.

 
  

ieeis on Tues nihi to ialkboui the issue at ll appear nine days later.

OPINION

in: lawn. uni I

The opinion section usually occupies pages two and _
three but may extend to other pages. In the left column   ‘
of pagetwo is tliestaff editorial, which is the opinion
of the Editorial Board, unless it is initialed by only some
board members. That _ is [the only place in the paper
where the editors express their opinions. The Phi ad-
ministrative staff is listed in the masthead, or staff box.
‘-The editorial cartoon'app'e’ars on page two and reﬂects
the opinion of the cartoonist. The Phi prints two syndi-
cated :columns and a weekly humor column which
r_eﬂec't=the opinions of their authors. The Phi also prints
' My View‘ columns. and letters, which anyone may
write. -The-Phi does not edit opinions for content unless
there .isjpotential.libelo_r obscenity. General Notes, a
free bulletin board, and Talkback appear on page three;

          I

_ . V _ Stories of human interest or aboutihe arts appear in this
> Chinese New Year celebrates the Year of the Cock  .  ' A    ight'heaned or take a deep

      

‘.5’ if  .

rages of editing.

AY — P.M.

)1‘ placement in PageMaker.
:ir stories. The photography

 

and goes over negatives with  . Axlhti. 9 . r tool: ata serious issue. _'I'l__1is;section_ usuallyioccupies -
mm  t t  e  ifs;:*::':;.:::*:.:f.:*;:::::3s::i::.:'.::::::::‘::;
utive editors and news editor  ‘ ’ ' ‘

jg _ ' greater ﬂexibility than other section editors in using
‘ more creative designs and different fonts in headlines.
The Phi has a columnist who occasionallywrites music

:ws and sports editors lay out
n assemble their printed tiles.

. V74‘ K‘ V 
Faculty alums reczill fmi life  

 

 

moon, and the editorial page __  A_ _  .e ,, _  _ , _  .. ----«-Ia--7- reviews in this section. The syndicated puzzle Colon-
Lose“ “med ﬁles are assembied imo es ,  "+3 -1-: nade Crossword usually, appears here, as well as a new
p pug ' U  -Iﬂlw feature, 50 years ago inthe Phi.
Photographs, sized and marked for cropping by editors the
night before, are taken to The News-Gazette by 9 a.m. Editors
make ﬁnal corrections at the Phi office, then take the pages to » This section covers the Generals athletics. Stories here
The News-Gazette. A technician there photographs the Phi’s are often amix dfthe feature and news styles of writing.
pictures through a ﬁlter of tiny dots, producing dot_man.ix [fthereisan opinion column in this section, itislabeled

as such. The Phi uses a sports front format, which
means that the most important stories are on the
newspaper’s back page. Jumps and other sports sto-

prints for publication. Editors cut the pictures to size, stick
them to the pages with wax, and outline them with line tape.

The News-Gazette technician then photographs the actual- ries are on inside pages. The Phi does not have enough
size pages, producing broad—sheet size negatives. A driver SPHCC t0 _00V€F 6V_6ry Sport 6V<=_f>' Week» 50 highlights
from the Phi’s printer in.Covington picks up the negatives at :’e‘:t'i‘o:'1a;‘l’l‘:i a;?o:;’;‘)‘:::“(°;1‘:Eh:‘:i‘:::e:);’:h:
noon. The Covington printer makes originals from the nega- sports ﬂag atthe top ohm backpage are ears’ “boxes,
tiVCS and prints hOWCVCI' many COpiCS Of thC  [hC editors which list last week’s Generals scores and the coming
order. In the evening, the driver returns with bundled copies W6<‘J<’S games and times-

   

of the Phi. The circulation staff takes over distribution.
If  hand. All photos by Mallory Meyer: except Calyx photo by Megan McCloskey "‘ C’

