‘THE lli\ll‘«/E':P.SlTY Lzmsavr
Wﬂe$'l%ll‘-§iTi‘Ui-l 3. LEE Ur-.:tvt.?I?3llt,

il'_“1l2"“"l"‘.V'tl \I,l ’)A.l_H(1 Y
YT_.  L11 .. .

OCT 2 3 I992:
efcome

Tarents

RAISING THIE CURTAIN

Opens Tonight At The Lenfest Center [9

Sweet Victory
Generals Break

Home Losing Streak
With Last Week’s Win ®

Ultra illing-tum {ﬂirt

VOLUME 92, NO. 7

hoto by AmyFre,‘ The Ring’-turvn Phi
Junior Cottie Miles clasps his hands in a Clinton-
Iike pose at Wednesday's debate audition.

Debaters
take aim

By CRAIG BURKE
Phi Staff Writer

0 Future presidential wanna-bes will present their party
platforms Wednesday night in the Generals Headquarters.
The Graharn-Lee-Washington Literary Society and the
Student Activities Board are sponsoring a mock debate, in
which student impersonators will represent presidential
candidates.
Last night, students auditioned to play roles of the major
candidates in the presidential race. Hopefuls were given
three minutes to impress a panel of faculty and student
judges with lcnowledge of their candidates.
Junior Andrew Schneider will take center stage Oct. 28
as President Bush.
“I hope the debate will educate students,” Schneider
said. “Especially those students who didn’t watch the
I ebates.”
Junior Cottie Miles won the rights to Democratic nomi-
nee Bill Clinton, and freshman Tom Fink will portray
‘independent Ross Perot.
Senior Cameron Hurnphries will take the stage asHoward
Phillips, candidate for the U.S. Taxpayers Party. Senior
Richard Hill will represent the Libertarian Party candidate

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCOTBER 22, 1992

Surveys eye sexual violence

Women
repon
assauﬂs

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

Ten W&L women who said they
were raped or sexually assaulted last
year said their assailants were W&L
men.

According to an annual survey of
freshman women, six women in last
year's freshman class were raped and
six were sexually assaulted.

Of the 12, 10 said they were as-
saulted by W&L students and two did
not say who assaulted them.

The survey was conducted by Asso-
ciate Dean of Students Anne Schroer-
Lamont. Senior Shannon Comer ana-
lyzed the results for a sociology class.

Seven women who said they were
raped or assaulted said the incidents
occurred in the freshman dorms.

One woman said the incident hap-
pened in Gaines, two in fraternity
houses and one at a country house. One
woman did not say where the incident
happened.

The 12 women who said they were
raped or assaulted at W&L made up 9
percent of the freshman women, down
from 11 percent in 1991 and 14 percent
in 1990.

The survey also found that the per-
centage of women who were raped or
assaulted before they came to college
has gone up, from 7 percent in ’90 to 15
percent in ’92.

The survey said only two of the 12
women who said they had been as-
saulted or raped said they reported the
incident to university officials.

. Percentage of students at W&L and statewide agreeing with the following:

Ila woman knows she is going to be raped,
she ml , ht as well relax and enjoy It.

It a woman engages in necking and she lets it
get out of hand, it’s her fault it her partner
forces sex on her.

Results provided
by the Dean of Students Office

W&L men doubt charges more

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

W&L men are three times more likely than
other Virginia college men to believe that a
woman who charges a man with rape is lying.

A survey of sexual attitudes given to 5,000
Virginia college students in October, 1991
and to 262 W&L freshmen last spring indi-
cates that W&L men place more blame on a
woman in a rape situation than college men in
the rest of the state

In the survey, 18.1 percent of W&L fresh-
man men agreed or strongly agreed with the
statement, “Most men accused of rape are
really innocent.” Statewide, only 5 percent of
college men surveyed agreed with the state-
ment, less than one-third of the W&L male
response.

Associate Dean of Students Anne Schroer-
Lamont, who conducted the W&L survey,
said W&L men seem to be more concerned

about being charged with a rape they did not
commit.

“There is a pretty high fear on this campus
of being wrongly accused,” Schroer-Lamont
said.

Schroer-Lamont said that overall, men have
a lot to learn about rape.

“Male students seem to have a lesser de-
gree of sensitivity to rape,” Schroer-Lamont
said.

The survey also indicates that women at

W&L are more sensitive to rape issues than
college women statewide.
‘ Two. percent of women around the state
said that most men accused of rape are inno-
cent. At W&L, just 0.8 percent of the women
surveyed agreed with the statement.

Most of the survey questions show W&L
men to be less sensitive and W&L women to
be more sensitive to rape issues than other
Virginia college students.

The survey found 44.8 percent of W&L
men believed women “cause their own rape

by the way they act or the clothes they wear,”
while only 35 percent of men statewide agreed
with the statement. For women, 15 percent of
women agreed statewide, but only 9.1 percent
agreed at W&L.

In some situations, W&L men were notas
willing as other college men to place the
blame for rape on the woman.

Only 5.2 percent of W&L men said that a
woman who goes to a man ’s room implies that
she wants to have sex, down from 9 percent
for other Virginia college men.

W&L men were also less likely to believe
that the woman is at fault if she kisses a man
and is later raped. W&L men were also less
likely to think that a woman who initiates a
sexual encounter will have sex with anyone.

The survey also found that 54.4 percent of
the W&L men surveyed believe there is too
much peer pressure on college students to
have sex, up from 48 percent statewide. The

El See SURVEY, page 5

‘Andre Marrou.

Shaw
back on
councﬂ

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee Director of
Communications Brian Shaw has re-
joined the Lexington City Council four
months after his four-year term on the
council expired.

0 The council appointed Shaw last
Thursday to replace A.C. “Sonny"
Jordan, who retired last month.

Shaw said someone from W&L tra-
ditionally sits on the council. When
Shaw decided not to rim for re-election
last May, W&L Director of Develop-
ment Lex McMillan ran for a seat but
was defeated.

Shaw, who was not at the Oct. 15
meeting, said Lexington Mayor H.E.

‘ ‘Buddy’ ’ Derrick approached him af-
ter Jordan’s retirement and asked him
if he would be interested in rejoining
e council.

Shaw said last week that he did not
campaign for the position, but said he
would accept the seat.

“I would welcome the chance to
serve the people of Lexington again,”
Shaw said.

Joan Dunbar, who owns a local real

Estate and construction firm, said she
applied for the vacant seat through the
CityManager’s offrcethreeweeks ago.
Dunbar said she wrote letters to the
council members explaining why she
believed herself qualiﬁed.

There was no public discussion on

haw’s appointment at the meeting,

‘ and Dunbar was not mentioned.

Councilman Greg Raetz said before
the meeting last week that Shaw was
the top choice to replace Jordan be-
cause of his experience on the council.

‘ ‘There’s no substitute for someone

Who has council experience,” Raetz
said. “My personal view is that Shaw
will be an excellent addition to the
council.”

Shaw will serve the remainder of
Jordan’s term, which expires in June
1994.

0

«mam

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi

. . . And they all fall down

Sophrnore Peyton Turner and her young playmates explore the newly fallen
leaves. Turner works with the children at Yellow Brick Road Child Care Center
as part of a developmental psychology class.

Facult discusses future
ofW& honors program

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

The University Scholars program faces an
uncertain future after a motion was made at the
last faculty meeting to eliminate the program.

The faculty tabled the motion and will take the
issue up at its Nov. 3 meeting, but the move has
left current scholars confused as to why the
program might be killed.

University Scholars Director John Evans said
a faculty committee began reviewing the pro-
gram last spring to determine if the program was
still serving a useful purpose.

“It is a reasonable thing to review a program
to determine if it is wonh keeping,”Evans said.
“No trumpets sounded, it was just an intelligent
administrative decision."

According to the Catalog, the Scholars pro-
gram provides “extra challenge and opportunity
for our best prepared, most able students.” Stu-
dents admitted to the program must take a read-
ing course, three honors seminars and must write
an honors thesis. Scholars may also design inde-
pendent seminars and take one-on-one tutorials
with professors.

Evans said the program was designed in
W&L’s last days before coeducation when the
quality of students was at a low point.

“The very bright students had trouble frndin g

one another and this program helped them do
that,” Evans said.

Evans said the conditions which made the
program a necessity then are not true any more
because the quality of students is much better
now than it was in the early 1980s.

“The original cause no longer holds,” Evans
said. “The question is, do you continue a pro-
gram when the conditions that brought it into
being are not there anymore?”

Evans said the program is taxing on faculty
members who agree to teach a course for the
Scholars.

“Not only are they teaching a course in addi-
tion to their normal duties,” Evans said, “but they
must prepare a very intensive course that they
will never repeat.”

Some scholars said the program may need to
be revamped, but not eliminated.

Scholar Scott Howe, ’93, believes the mission
of the program has evolved.

“It’s not the best and the brightest anymore,”
Howe said. “Now, it’s the most motivated.”

Howe acknowledged that the scholars have
not had areading seminar or a speaker for awhile,
two of their traditional activities.

Scholar Jim Prather, ’93, said the program
can be salvaged.

“Whatever is wrong, it’s nothing so severe

Cl See SCHOLARS, page 4

EC denies ACLU funding, calls group ideologically partisan

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

The Executive Committee denied the Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union funding Monday, say-
ing the group is ideologically partisan, despite a
petition signed by about 250 students in favor of
funding the group. '

The EC voted unanimously not to give the
ACLU $1250 that the group had requested. EC
representatives Robert Stewart and James
Rambeau abstained, and Carol Pierce, Jay Stearne
and Kevin Webb were not at the meeting.

ACLU President Andrew Schneider said the
ACLU is not partisan because it does not support
political candidates. He said the ACLU’s goal is to
ﬁght for the Bill of Rights and teach and defend
civil rights principles.

EC Secretary Bob Tompkins said an organiza-
tion does not have to support political candidates
to be partisan.

“There are different interpretations of the Bill
of Rights and what it means,” Tompkins said.
“The ACLU supports a particular ideological
stance on that.”

Schneider said about 95 percent of the people
he confronted signed the petition in support of
ACLU funding, even if they did not agree with
the organization as a whole.

The EC examined the petition, but some mem-
bers questioned its validity.

“I would like to know how many of those 250
people knew what they were signing," senior EC
Rep. Susan Mosely said.

Sophomore EC Rep. Robert Stewart said some
EC members took the petition too lightly. He also
questioned how representative of the student

body the petition is.

EC President Josh MacFarland read a state-
ment by Spectator Editor
Cameron I-lumphries dur-
ing the meeting.
Humphries stated hisopin-
ion that the ACLU should
not be funded.

“We heard
[Schneider’s] side and 1
had gotten some opinions
contrary to that,”
McFarland said. “I
thought it would behoove
the committee to hear the
other side.”

Schneider said the statement was ﬁlled with
misconceptions about the ACLU.

“The [statement] was half erroneous,”

MacFarland

Schneider said. “The thing that struck me most
was that Josh had planned to do research on the
ACLU and a week later it consisted of only a
[statement] by the editor of the Spectator.”

Stewart said he thought Hurnphries statement
was unnecessary.

“It wasn’t supposed to be a forum,” Stewart
said. “It was supposed to be us discussing with
[Schneider] whether or not we were going to
fund the ACLU.”

Stewart said the EC scrutinized the ACLU
more closely titan most groups making requests.

“Because of the national reputation of the
ACLU it got that kind of scrutiny,” Stewart said.

Most EC members said they were concerned
with the national reputation and ideologically
partisan stance of the ACLU and not the activi-
ties Schneider proposed in his budget for the
campus chapter.

PAGE 2

 

 

flirt {Ring-tttm iﬁlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Yes, professor,
it costs a quarter

As many of you have noticed, The Ring-tum Phi has begun
charging non-students for copies of the paper. During the past
week, we have received many questions about the reasoning
behind this change, and we think it is only fair to explain.

In the past, the Phi has received a bulk “donation” from the
Executive Committee, which meant that student activities fees
paid for both student and faculty papers. The Phi was treated as
just another student organization, potentially at the mercy of the
student government. In theory, any EC, present or future, could
have closed the Phi’s account and shut down the paper for
controversial articles. If the Phi is to function truly as a “real
newspaper,” such an arrangement could not continue.

This year, the Phi proposed a change in its relationship with
the EC. The EC purchased a subscription on behalf of the
student body for a semester, with the option of renewing or
canceling the subscription at the beginning of winter term. The
agreement was closer to the “real worl ” relationship of news-
paper to subscribers, freeing the paper from potential pressure
and relieving the EC from liability for the Phi’s actions.

During the negotiations, the EC and the Phi recognized that
students should not spend their activities fees for faculty and
staff newspapers. This would be comparable to the subscribers
of The Washington Post paying extra for their papers so the Post
could send free subscriptions to one group of readers, say
professors. If the faculty and staff wish to receive a product,
then they should pay just like anybody else. The EC and the Phi
agreed that a block faculty subscription, similar to the one sold
to the student body, would be a fair solution.

The Phi then notified university administrators to explain the
new arrangement and to offer them a bulk subscription for
faculty and staff at the same rate paid by students. The admin-
istration proved reluctant to reach an agreement, saying they
could not understand the Phi’s reasoning and asking for more
time to consider the proposal.

As of now, they are still resisting what they condemn as a
“break from tradition.” Until the administrators make a final
decision about the subscription or another system of payment

is arranged, the Phi will allow individual faculty members to
purchase their copies outside the Generals Headquarters or in
the Co-op.

We look forward to a prompt resolution of our discussions
with the administration. ’

I _.._..»_,.- ....,v..,..t_.,.» ..

Parents!

We at the Phi would just like to welcome all visiting parents
to Washington and Lee. We know you’re excited to see your
sons and daughters again, and we hope you have a pleasant
weekend.

We ’d like to invite all parents and students to come by The
Ring-tum Phi’s reception, Friday from 4:30-6:30 p.m. in the
Gaines Gatehouse. We’ll all be there, more than happy to
answer your questions and hear your comments.

Hope to see you there!

Quote of the Week

If I give out too many, please pass them —— excuse the word -
to the left.
— Professor of History Jefferson Davis Futch

flirt filing-titm iﬂlii ~

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

~ News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plurruner

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

OPINION

1'he Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992

I HAVE RETURNED!

New York name-calling mugs politics ~

NEW YORK—— The cab crawls
through congealed traffic. The driver,
an immigrant from some fragment of
the Soviet Empire, un-
derstands little En-

charged that Ferraro “took $340,000
from a child pomographer.” Ferraro’s
husband rented warehouse space to a

glish. Lucky him.
Someone once said

Times Square is beau-

tiful if you can't read.

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group

New York today is tol-
erable if you can't un-
derstand political commercials like the
one snarling from the cab radio, revil-
ing “mudslide Bob Abrams” as a
thrower of “manure."

The Democratic nominee for sena-

tor is Robert Abrams, the state’s attor= =
ney general, who recently madenewsi

by skipping Manhattan’s Columbus
Day parade and calling his opponent,
two-term incumbent AlfonseD’Arnato,
a “fascist.” Abrams is a liberal in good
standing (wants to cut defense spend-
ing 50 percent; favors gay rights as a
litmus test for judicial norriinees) but
did not duck the parade for the correct
liberal reason (that Columbus was a
fascist who inflicted Eurocentri sin and
syphilis on the indigenous peoples of
the North American paradise).

Rather, Abrams, who needs cash,
had to go prospecting for some of it
upstate (where he paraded for Colum-
bus in Binghamton). Anyway, most of
this state’s Italian Americans—-1 5 per-
cent of the voters—are Republicans.
Besides, Abrams has an Italian prob-
lem.

Remember Geraldine Ferraro and
the rumors of mob associations that
muddled the Mondale-Ferraro ticket in
1984? Last month Abrams won a four-
wayprirnary,beatingFerraro by 11,254
votes out of 1.5 million votes cast.
lriitially Ferraro had a 30-point lead.
Then another rival, Elizabeth
Holtzman, this city's comptroller,

mob-cormected pomographer for three
years after she promised to have him
evicted.

Ferraro, wrapping herself in the
skirts of Saint Anita, said Holtzman

“WY b'°"l’i°‘°3.i'¢31 1)’ 3,‘‘’9i“?P 5!“ 5.1.‘§,’$.'
acting just like the rneniin the Clarence ~

Thomas hearir'ig'." Abrams, who is bio-
logically incorrect in this Year of the
Woman. piled on, fretting about re-
ports tliatsomeconti'ibutorstoFerraro's
congressional campaigns had
Runyonesque nicknames like “One-
Eyed Charlie” and “Billy the Butcher.”

Ferraro said she was a victim of
“guilt by ethnicity” but Abrams in-
sistedthat“FerraroattackingD’Amato
on the sleaze issue would be a classic
case of the pot calling the kettle black.”
D’Amato's senseofchivalrywasstirred

on Ferraro’s behalf (although he was .

the first this year to raise the mob issue
about her). He called Abrams a savage
and a “sissy.” A savage sissy? Go fig-
ure.

Abrams was born in the Bronx on
the Fourth of July —— a good career
move — in 1938 and has been a politi-
cal careerist since age 27. Heis running
as an outsider, of course, as is D’Amato,
who is seeking to win years 13 through
18 in the Senate.

No slouch as a name-caller,
D’Amato answers the “fascist” charge
by calling Abrams something worse-—
an “incumbent." Abrams calls

D’Amato “a desperate rat.” D'Amato
calls Abrams a “sleaze bag."

New York, once upon a time the
nation's cultural capital, has the most
intellectual senator, Pat Moynihan, and
the least, D’Amato, who is known as
the Senate's Bart Simpson — crude
and proud of it.

He is proudest of the nickname
“SenatorPothole,”at.ribute, soto speak,
to his manic miniaturization of poli-
tics. He has built a career on the prin-
ciple that “no
service is too
small.” He

In this city, where

De Witt Clinton, William Seward, Elihu
Root, Robert Wagner, Herbert Lehman
and Jacob Javits.

Abrams’ “fascist” remark, which he
says was“unfortunate,”ventedhisfrue
tration with D’Amato's negative ads
that play fast and loose with such facts
as they contain. D ’Amato, figuring that
30 seconds is a ﬁlibuster in in-your-
face New York, is running 10-second,
kick-in—the-groin ads, such as: “Bob
Abrams demanded a $6 million-a-ye
luxury office
suite. Now he
wants to raise
your taxes. Bob

serves anyone . . . . p *
“'.rlloW.ilIil¢tli1n.ii’Z,..’‘,.f.P‘?l!t!¢§T.m!F“'°$; 8 10081 Abrams. Hope-
beuseful. He is industry ,(muggmg)'- and ’ lesslylibera1.”
"°f”°‘“b“”‘° I‘ ever’ one worries about I“ “"5 °“"
would get a th 3: tt_ where politics;
fascist’spothole 8 me groups ge mg mimics a local
filled (but only scdissaedn (disrespected) industry (mug-
if the fascist ‘ . ,, . ’ ging) and every-
wefearegistefx     3b- one worries
voterorhadrela- hon-ed not just, of even about ethnic
tives whowere). - - - groups gettin v
The Same primarily, because it ..disb_.ed..(dis

Ethics Comrnit- connotes totalitarian spected), the
tee says he has ' ' ' term “fascist” is
conducted “the Fonvlctlons’ but Pecause abhorred not
business of his It has What D Amato just, orevenpri-
office in an im- Pu]-ring]y ca|]s“so many marily, because
properandinap- . . _ itconnotestotali-
propriate man- conn0t5¥t'?ns',’Me?nl!Ig' tarian convid
ncr."D'Amato's , Mussolini. More picking rions. but be-
reigpnsgoisthg, on Italy. IC)a’1l:6 ithas what
w a u - ma 0 purr-
ing your ingly calls “so
brother's many connota-
keeper? A guy . _ _ t_ions.”Meaning: ‘
can’t let his brother (who has been Mussolim. More picking on Italy. 0.
indicted on fraud charges) use the of- This column is intended as an Octo-

free to do a little lobbying for a defense
contractor? The contractor was from
I.ong Island, for Pete's sake.

The Senate seat D'Amato occupies
was previouslyoccupied by the likes of

ber pleasant surprise for non-New

Yorkers. You thought politics where

you live is as squalid as politics can be.

You were wrong.

@1992, Washington Post Writers Group

0

Why Clinton coasts through campaign

24450

WASHINGTON -— John F. Kennedy was hand-
some and confident on TV. Richard Nixon was ill-
looking and nervous. The 1960 election went to
Kennedy.

That's the way it goes in
a close election. A Vice

economy grew at 3 percent a year and created 10
million new jobs. Under George Bush, the annual
growth rate has been halfthat of Carter's. The result:
There are fewer pri-
vate-sector jobs now
than the afternoon

President makes a bad ap-
pearance on TV one evening
and has to wait eight years
for the top job. A President

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

Bush was inaugurated.

Translated to
kitchen-table econom-
ics: Parents who sent

goes to bed after saying
something stupid about
Eastern Europe. Gerald
Ford wakes up the next morning a Palm Springs
retiree.

But 1992 is different. It’s an election year when
nothing the candidates do or say counts for much.
Just ask yourself: Is there some thought George Bush
could impart before Nov. 3 thatmighttum your vote?
Is there something about Bill Clinton's personal life
that would lure or deflect your loyalties? Probably
not.

The entire year has been like this. An attractive
woman calls a New York press conference to say
she's had a 12-year tryst with the Arkansas front-
ninner. The country enjoys the soap opera, then turns
the channel. The polls do their windsong, then return
to normal, just as they do when the Clinton “draft"
story makes its periodic zip across the newswires. I

So what is this election about? Why is Bill Clinton
as incapable of losing our support as George Bush
seems in winning it? Whydo 80million people watch
the TV debates, yet come away stuck in the same
positions they started with? Why is an electorate
known for having second thoughts in the weeks
before balloting proving itself so stubbom?

Here are five reasons, in order of importance:

1. The Economy. Under J immy Carter, the

kids to college find
them homeagain, with-
out jobs, much less ca-
reers.

Both spouses work but find themselves living no
better than before. A successful business is no longer
one that makes a “killing”; it's one that survives
being killed itself.

2. The Cold

campaign backing the Democratic presidential can-
didate because of homefront concerns like education,
health, workplace policy, and, in many cases, abor
tion. By Election Day, that “gender gap” has closed?

This year, both genders are being driven by do-
mestic issues: job security, health insurance, guaran-
teed home medical leave. Thanks to the gong show
the Senate Judiciary Committee made of the Clarence '
Thomas-Anita Hill hearings, both genders are sup-
porting women for high office. .

If the “gender gap” disappears in 1992, it will be
because men have decided to vote with their wives -
not the other way around.

4. Anti-incumbency. This cuts much deeper than
the House bank scandal or the call for term limits.
Resentment of political big shots has been bubbling
for years. And there is no more high-profile incum-

bency than the’

man living all

War.Eversince the
'40s, we Ameri-
cans have picked
one kind of Presi-
dent — some guy
who was in uni-

This year, both genders are being driven by
domestic issues: job security, health insur- 5-
ance, guaranteed home medical leave.
Thanks to the gong show the Senate Judi-

l600 Pennsylva-
nia Ave. ,

Cycles.
Historian Arthur
Schlesinger ar-

Americans can
suddenly afford the luxury of picking a national
leader oriented to challenges at home. It can afford to
retire a President whose best credentials for the office
now seem decrepit.

3. Women. Traditionally, women voters start the

{‘§,‘;‘f‘I‘_”i“3 w°"d ciary Committee made of the Clarence Tho- figgficanswffnf
That epoch is mas-Anita Hill hearings, both genders are laid-backleaders
over. The Soviet ° ° like Calvin
Zmgig $8 13:]; t_ supporting women for high office. go 0 li d ghe ’
re , e 0 at w 1 g 1
_ history. Eisenhower and!

George Bush.
Other times they want to see an activist calling the
shots.
If there is something the President could say to
counter these five historic forces, he has yet to say it.
© 1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

 

gues there are’

  

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

“Let he whose opinion is suppressed
write on the walls of the loo.”

So said a wise man who was, no
doubt, brain damaged from long-terrn
oxygen deprivation. But are his words
Far from the truth?

The Washington and Lee adniinis-
tration would like you to believe that
W&L is somewhat immune to bath-
room graffiti. Tliat’s why they send
some poor soul around every few
months to paint over it. Still, it's kind
t!“ tough to paint over something that is
carved deeply into a stall door, so quite
a bit of it is immortalized in the

, university’s bathrooms.

Our graffiti at W&L reﬂects the
opinions of students, as crass as they
may be. Graffiti reﬂects positions on
lllsues (“Coed Sucks” - duPont first
iﬂoor), and affirms roles in society (“I
am the Snapper” - Robinson first ﬂoor).
lnmy extensive search throughoutcam-
pus for cool graffiti, I have even come
across graffiti with deep philosophical
implications (“Marshall Boswell is
?ahweh- pray to him, 0 English ma-
jors” - Payne second ﬂoor).

What prompts a man to become so
overly philosophical while engaging
in the commonplace activity of dispos-
ing of bodily wastes? Is it a deep-
seated need to express oneself or a
siriple lack of something better to do
while taking a dump? The motivations
behind these washroom pieces of art
are many.

For instance, what would prompt a
student to write “War is Peace. Free-

' dom is Slavery. Ignorance is Strength”

OI the stall in the Payne Hall bath-

The Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992

room? At first thought, one might
suppose that a post-Wednesday night

low me to explain.
The following pieces of literature

OPINION

Bathroom graffiti flushes suppression

Iequil%;_‘l1II:Ill1g0Va¢3!ll‘ailS resptgnsible. Hot»; have appearedinstalls throughout cam-
ever, er ysis rings up e pus:
possibility of this student being legiti- “Larry Skipper the road tripper”
mately psychotic and roaming campus “I’m just wild about Larry”
with an AK-47. Scary, isn't it? “Skipper the Tripper”

Some people are actually very para- “I Love Larry Skipper”
noid with re- Who is
gardtothepos- this mysterious
swim’ °f I wish I knew whether Mr‘ Skipp°”’"d
someone out _ _ _ why has‘ he be-
there being graffiti IS as prevalent In come such a cel-
crazier than womenas bathrooms as in ebratedbathroom
tlieyare.These , personality?
fearsaremani- men s rooms. However, Spos theorizes
fested through nothing éou]d drag Spos tliatthisisascare
the writings of . tactic, employed
graffiti cen- ""0 a women ,3 room by the same
sors. Actually. , short of a John Deere trac- people who gave
”'°‘° °°“‘°" tor. The reason for this is "5 .F"‘“°'“‘‘V Rf‘
nevercompose , naissance, 0
pieces of their whatever lurks in a keep students
own, but in- 9 ' - from road-trip-
steadgetoffon women S room requlrfs ping to girls’
altering the that women go there 1n schools, lest they

' ' f th- be th b-
,‘.,'f;‘,‘,f'gs,s,i‘:,{’,.,.i, packs of two or more to jeffme ° suof
own individual ' campuswideridi-
views. In the face It’ cule. You heard
case of the it here first.
“War is peace...” quote, a censor had The administration and faculty have
written “What the f—k is this gar- reacted strangely to bathroom graffiti.

bage?" with an arrow pointing to the
aforementioned. (Please understand
that the swear word above was written
without the silly dashes, but this being
a “family newspaper," Ihave no alter-
native but to clean it up a bit.)
Perhaps there is considerably more
to the W&L graffiti artist than an un-
canny ability to completely gross out
future visitors to the can. Spos has
recently noted what appears to be a
campuswide graffiti conspiracy. Al-

LETTERS

Ever notice how nicely the C-School
bathrooms are kept? In constructing
the C-School bathroom stalls out of
faux marble, the stalls have been effec-
tively graffiti-proofed.

Ever try to write on one of these
stalls? It’slike tryingtowrite on Steven
Seagal’s hair. The slick surface causes
the pen to skid around quite a bit and
you can’t get anything done. (Note-—
Spos is just kidding. Ifhe ever tried to
write on Seagal 's hair, he would end up

with several broken limbs and a caved-
iri chest cavity.) '
Anyway, there has to be a reason
why the C-School bathrooms have been
so effectively graffiti-proofed.
Methinks that professors from the poli-
tics department got tired of seeing their
names on the walls in bad context, so
they sent 10 zillion little memos and
Post-It notes to President Wilson ask-
ing foran anti-graffiti subcommittee to

‘ be established. Again, you heard it

here first.

I wish I knew whether graffiti is as
prevalent in women’s bathrooms as in
men's rooms. However, nothing could
drag Spos into a women’s room short
of a John Deere tractor. The reason for
this iswhatever lurks in a women’s
room requires that women go there in
packs of two or more to face it. (“Ex-
cuse me, Betty. Could you go to the
restroom with me?”) I don’t care to
guess as to what is in there, but it
probably would send Godzilla running
for his life.

What are Spos’ personal favorites
you ask? Well, my favorite on-campus
specimen appears in the bathroom on
the first ﬂoor of Parmly Hall. It simply
reads “Delt Lives.” My favorite non-
campus graffiti appears on the bottom
of a bathroom stall in a truck stop
somewhere inNew Jersey. Right above
the space between the stall and the
ﬂoor, where you can see the feet of the
guy squatting next to you, someone
etched the words “Beware of Gay
Limbo Dancers.” Spos laughed so
hard, he nearly rocked himself off of
the can. If the toilet-paper holder not
been in a convenient spot so as to serve
as a handle, Spos rriight have fallen off
and created an embarrasing situation.
Such is the power of the written word.

' Humor coIumnist’s superhero offends readers

To the Editor:

I am an avid reader of your newspa-
per. One of the aspects I admire most
about your paper is the Phi’s boldness.
Iiﬁseems as though you're not afraid to
say anything. I love the “Talkback”
section, for instance. However, this
past issue, I believe, you really went

vice. Next time you decide to write a
creative writing piece, stay away from
manes like “Richard Head, Ben Dover,
Phil McCrevice, and A. Nel Sphinc-
ter.” And write about something that
everyone can appreciate. Do you really
think the females on this campus en-
joyed that article?

too far. The “Erection Man" pI'tI0l'e§§‘iu_pI9 ¢9l!j7lll$,i9§o; I woiil<1iia§t.1iké to

was not only way out of line, butalso,

. . l

truly lacking in tasteful; originaf hu-"’

rmr. As a male, I know how guys talk I

around other guys, and I have no prob-
lem with it.

However, material like this has no
business being in a university newspa-
per. It really brings down the character
of the publication. Personally, I would
bc ashamed to show this newspaper to
my parents, who brought me up in the
atmosphere of astrong Christian house-
hold. I think they would be appalled. I
was disgusted myself. I mean, who
wants to read about an eight-foot penis
ejaculating all over a criminal? That's
rgtlly disgusting! Sure, we all have our
sexual fantasies, but come on! An eight-
foot penis? Get real, Chris, it’s just not
going to happen!

Not only was the article gross; it
was also completely pointless and bor-
ing. If you get your jollies writing
a utmasturbatinginapublicrestroom
with the latest porn issue, then please
keep your thoughts to yourself. I don't
want to hear about it. The article just
simply lacked real humor and creativ-
ity. Let me give the author some ad-

I

I

=s;.*ti:iifttitrti:.‘::'.i?.$.i.t‘i§‘:f.a:t.'E

thathe should apply for a job at Pent-
house magazine. And be honest, Chris.
Did you really go over the material of
the “Erection Man” article with your
family at the dinner table? I think not.
In any case, I hope not to discover any
more articles of this type bastardizing
our fine W&L publication. Thanks.

Most Sincerely,
Craig Sears, ‘96

To tlieEditor:

The article in last week's Ring—tum
Phi, “Erection Man Battles Diabolical
Villains,” was the inevitable result of
pen and paper combined with an infan-
tile sense of humor. _

Though I am unsure of the purpose
behind this “opinion,” I assume that
the author's oiigirial intent was to
amuse. Neither the concept nor the
finished product contained amodicum

Interviews and Photos

A By Jameson Leonardi

  What are your plans for Parents Weekend?

of humor, and served only to insult the
intelligence of the entire W&L student
body.
I also question the judgment of the
editors who chose to publish this ar-
ticle. The staff claims that the paper
“observes current court definitions
of_..,obscenity,?f If this article is any
indication, 11.19 °,b$¢TVat.ion.is=cirrsory-

aI-h¢§t—- ln R<>.ih.it.l!ni¢edSta1a: .354.
U.Se 476 ((1957-) the "Supreme Court‘

found material to be obscene when,
“applying contemporary community
standards, the dominant theme of the
material taken as a whole appeals to the
prurient interest.”

The Supreme Court laterexpounded
on this test in Jacobellir vs. Ohio , 378
U.S. 184 (1964). “A work cannot be
proscribed imless it is ‘utterly without
redeeming social importance,’ and
hence material that deals with sex in a

manner that advocates ideas, or that
has literary or scientific or artistic value
or any other form of social importance,
may not be held obscene and denied
constitutional protection.”

I fail to see any social importance
which this article may contain. No lit-
era;-y, gcientific or artistic value may
be derivedrfrom ;its '~I7hetartiele-isteven~
patemljrdewoidtof liirrnor so ariargu—
ment that it has-ente'rtai"n'rnent value is
moot. I

Mr. Citron’s article is by far the
most tasteless and unnecessary work
which Ihave ever read in the Ring -tum
Phi. I only hope that the newspaper
staff recognizes this incident for the
mistake that it was and in the future
will refrain from printing similar child-
ish vulgarities.

M. Beckwith Archer ‘90, ‘93L

  
 

  

TALKBACK

 

Ghad Dobbins, ’96, Louisville, Ky.
-— “To show my father how much
W&L has changed since he was here

i 20 years ago.”

Marty Tannen, ’96, South Orange,
NJ. -— “I'm looking forward to party-
ing with Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts
and my padre.”

Hillary, ’96, and Heather Rhodes, ’93, Ithaca, N.Y. —— “Our parents ditched Eric Tracy. ’95. Midlothian. Va. —- Lissa Cockrel. ’96. Evergreen. Colo.

us so we're going to sit in our rooms and cry.”

Financial Aid

Students needing financial as-
sistance for Spring Term Abroad
Programs should contact the Finan-
cial Aid Office immediately. For
those students who have not sub-
mitted a Financial Aid Form for
1992-93, the priority deadline for
submission for spring term assis-
tance is Nov. 2.

Travel Info

Students, faculty and staff who
are plarming trips abroad may want
to check the State Department Travel
Inforrriation Notebook available in
the University Registrar’s office in
Reid Hall. Information is available
for more than 40 countries and in-
cludes the current federal recom-
mendations for travel to an area,
phone numbers and/or addresses of
embassies or consulates, and other
essentials. .

Register

Also, the new Register of Stu-
dents, Faculty and Staff is in. One
copy per student is available in the
Registrar’s office.

Health Ed

There will be aHealth Education
Committee meeting tonight at 6:30
p.m. in room 109 in the University
Center.

Book Sale

The Library Book sale, which
started today, will rim to Wednes-
day, Oct. 28. The sale will be in the
Library lobby.

BLSA

The Black Law Students’ Asso-
ciation would like to welcome all
minority students to the Washing-
ton and Lee and Lexington commu-
nities. A reception in their honor
will beheld tonight from 7-9p.m. in
the Fairfax Lounge in the Univer-
sity Center. Also, the BLSA would
like to invite the Washington and
Lee and Lexington/Buena Vista
communities to hear the Honorable

C of the Law School (Lewis Hall).
A reception will follow and all are
encouraged to attend.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of “Slacke” (USA,
1991), directed by Richard
Linklater. Showings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday, Oct. 23 and Satur-
day, Oct. 24 in the Troubadour Cin-
ema, at the comer of Main andHeriry
streets. As always, there is no charge
for admission.

Needed. Men and women inter-
ested in organizing a VMI-W&L
student Organization. Call Jason at
464-6259.

Judge Shackleford speak on Tues- _
day, Nov. 10 at6 p.rn. inclassroom 

General Notes are compiled by Matt Hur.

PAGE 3

 

Haunted House

Lambda Chi Alpha will hold a
Haunted House onHalloween night,
Saturday, Oct. 31, from 7-9 pm. in
conjunction with the Lexington
Police Deptartrnent Admission for
children 12 and under is 50 cents
with proceeds to be donated to the
United Way. The Lambda Chi
House is located at 225 E. Nelson
.St. Questions? Call 463-2600.

CD&P

The School for Field Studies will
present a program about their op-
portunities for environmental field
study experiences. It will be held on
Monday, Oct. 26 at 4 p.m. in room
109 of the University Center. Also,
an Insurance Opportunities Semi-
nar will be held on Tuesday, Oct. 27
at 4 p.m. in room 109 in the Univer-
sity Center. Anyone who is inter-
viewing with Independent Educa-
tional Services should attend the
information session scheduled for
Thursday, Oct. 29 at 7 p.m. in room
114 of the University Center. For-
eign Broadcast Information Service
is holding an Information Session at
4 p.m. on Monday, Nov. 2 in room
114 of the University Center.

FOC

Freshman Orientation Commit-
tee will be holding interviews Oct.
27-29 for new members. Current
members do not need to re-apply.
Applications and interview times
are available outside of Carol
Calkins’ office. Questions? Call
Carlin Jones at 464-3758.

WLUR

WLUR will present an album
feature every Thursday at 5 pm.
Listen to hear new alburris from the
hottest rock artists. Signs will be
posted each week indicating what
band is being highlighted.

Women’s Forum

At the next meeting of Women’s
Forum Jan Kaufman will give the
first of a two part lecture entitled
‘ ‘Frisky Business", a  discus-
sion about sex in the 90's.The meet-
ing will be Sunday, Oct. 25 at 7 p.m.
in the Women’s Center. Everyone
is welcome.

College Dems

There will be a meeting of the
College Democrats this Sunday,
Oct. 25 at 7 p.m. in the University
Center Game Room. For more in-
forrriation call 463-8984.

CD&P

The deadline for submitting re-
sumes for the Selective Liberal Arts
Consortium Job Fairs in New York
City, Chicago, Washington, D.C.,
Philadelphia and San Francisco is
Friday, Oct. 23 by4p.m. ‘ ‘Ourtime
is your time" every Friday from 1-
4 p.m. Drop by with any career-
related questions or concerns.

“I‘m going to get my parents as drunk
as possible so they will give me more
money.”

   

—— “I’m going to eat real food."

 

  
    
  
   
  
    
   
 
 
     
   
   
  

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992 .

\v'

NEWS

Freshmen
compete
for offices

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Contributing Writer

City mayor rejects
idea to work off tax .

car tax to students is unfair. ‘
“It’s taxation without representation,” Kull
said.
. ‘ _ ‘ Kull said no matter what the city says, there is
Washington and Lee and the city of Lexington a difference between students and Lexington citi-
butted heads over the car taxlast week. _ zens. He said students are temporary resident of
Executive Committee Junior EC Rep...limmy Lexington, and the car tax pays for goods and
Kull met with Mayor E. “Buddy" Demck Oct. services that will last much longer than the aver-
13 ‘to discuss the option of students paying off age W&L students gray in Lexington ‘
their car taxes through community service. Kull said althoughpaying off the cartaxthrough
“The feeling 180tfr0m [Derrick] 18 [the pro- community service probably won’t be feasible
and 43 votes respiectively out of 338 ¥)0S?l11WaSbI;’t going ﬂanyt;v)lgire,f’ ’ Kull saidi. “['I'he_ he has not given up on the issue.
votes cast in Mon ay’s primary. ' _ . _ aw as en on e s orever an we’ve “We’re going to work within the limits 05
In the EC primary, Graham Frey Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi beegeﬁghﬁng fgﬁhfom. years_.. a] law and use temporary residence to our adv P
received 40 votes, Lisa Smith got 34, rric sai e community service propos tage,” Kull said.
Frank Sparrow, 32, W. Jarratt Bell, 22, we are the World did not seem feasible to him. He said he ques- City Treasure Pat Delaney said the city has is

Jennifer Galardi, 15, Rich Essex, 15, _ _ _ _ _ _ tioned who would assign, organize and keep track much trouble collecting the tax from city resi-
Anthony Raﬂa, 15, Amy Carrington, students m Evans D'"'"9 Ha" leer“ the harsh Vealmes °f me as 93" °f WW“ of the amountof community serviceneededtopay dents as it does students. "

13, Lissa Cockrei, 13, Gray Hancock, Hunger Week. To mirror the world distribution of wealth, four percent of partici- off a car tax, Derrick said are proposal wouid be “No one wants to pay a tax,» Delaney said_
12, and Rich Talmadge, 4. Twelve pants had a candlelight steak dinner, 36 percent ate beans and rice with uten- unfair to the people who do community service Penalties and interest are added on to the¢:;3r 7
people did not vote. I siis and so percent are rice on the ﬂoor with their hands_ without compensation and to the average Lexing- tax bill if the bill is not paid by its due date,

Run-off candidate for president ton citizen. Delaney said. She said if the bill is still not paid,
Matthew Mazzucchi got 84 votes and

Dax Mahoney got 74 votes Monday. _I O n O  p  g  m  t U  i n d O U  clas;I(l:i:i'l'xeft(£):liftl:'ef:l()1i('iit t.si:i%fme :e\l1i’i;]f(::ﬁl"tf'i')1l(’);l;:ey:naer§ts:ll/’ltlloll)1;.Clltgiﬁ/Iéiléiftice that

Presidential candidates Mason New Derrick said the Lexington City Council looked Delaney said the city does have to issue War?

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The freshman class voted for Execu-
tive Committee representative, class
president and vice president in a nm-off
election today.

Polls were still open at press time.

Freshman EC Rep. candidates Peter
Agelesto and Todd Bryan received 68

 

got 72 votes, S.R. Evans,57 votes, Curt F SCHOLARS 1 program were asked for input in the review into the cost of living in Lexington in 1988 and rants every year, and if the case is taken to court,

Futch, 31, and Jeanne Dillon, 18, in the mm s P399 process, but not current students. discovered the property rates, real-estate rates and the city usually wins. 8

primary. Two people did not vote. that it can't be fixed,” Prather said. “People in the midst of a situation tend not to utility rates were extremely high. He said the “If we do get a judgment, that could hurt
In the vice presidential race, run-off Prather said the current scholars were not told be the most objective,” Evans said. council had to choose between raising taxes or someone’s credit rating,” Delaney said.

candidates Preston Miller got 81 votes that the program might be eliminated. He said the Evans said he would ideally like to see a new collecting more of the taxes already owed to the Delaney said if someone believes their bill is
and Madeline White got 63 Monday. scholars wrote a letter protesting the action to the program created with some of the facets of the city. Aggressively pursuing the taxes owed to the wrong or they don’t owe any money at all, they
Primary vice presidential candidate faculty Courses and Degrees Committee, which Scholars in it, but said the fate of the scholars city was the best choice. should call the Commissioner of Revenue's of-
Tyson Hilton received 53 votes, Cary will make a recommendation about the program must be decided first. “We were running the risk of running every- ﬁce. She said a telephone call could save a hassle
Hansel got 33, Larry Codraro, 29, at the next faculty meeting. Prather said the program is too good to die. one out of town except the students,” Derrick for the city and the person being billed. g
Gretchen Hall, 28, Susan Foote, 19, “We don’t like the idea of having the program “lt’s about students, it’s about education and Said. Derrick denied that the car tax is meant to take '
Cliff V.P. Holekamp, l4, and Charlie yanked out from under our feet,” Prather said. it’s about taking things into your own Kull said he applauds the city’s efforts to keep advantage of students.
Santo, 14. Four people did not vote. Evans said all graduates of the nine-year old hands,”Prather said. the tax rate down, but he still thinks applying the ‘ ‘It’s a tax on cars, not on students.”

      
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
 
     

 
   

. A '
Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? STUDENT SERVlCES.BOX 1792li.PLAllTATI0ll.FL 33318 ' ooocampus nepswantedooo
- : I HEATWAVE VACATIONS
Now you can have two of the most recognized and ' SPRING BREAK 1993
accepted credit cards in the worici...visao and MastcrCarid® I i  lW3"lW5A°/MASTERCARD?’ C"°d“ I The bestrates & thebisses!
credit aids.-“In your name-" EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed nnd $5 which is 100% refundable if not I commissions. For more Information.
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 'l1JRNED DOWN BEFORE! . approved ,mmed,a,e,y_ . can 3o(t395-wAvE
VISAS’ and MastcrCard® the credit cards you I I
deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS-—DEPARTMENT | NAN! ' _ _

5 STORES-—1‘UlTlON-—ENTERTAlNMENT— I E . C|L|d|Otfon|cs .
E‘ EMERGENCY (‘J\SH—TICKETS-—RES'I‘AURANI‘S—- ' ADDRESS . AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO R

; HOT ELS—MOTELS-GAS-—CAR RENTALS— ‘ ‘
g REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD voun CREDIT RATING! I CITY _..__________ STATE _ ZIP I 2523; ifgzﬁ ,
if I I

~ gt _ _s TOSHIBA MARANTZ ,
E gomm: ‘Q " d : PHONE j} s s : KEF CW0 r
‘I ' ']‘[  BOSTON DEFI

3 “.51?-“‘,$u¢ "3 ere H-it d - , . SIGNA . KLIPSCH BAZggl(“AE

; '55! “go cg, 595"" Y €D0$It- NOTE Ma.-ttcrcud is: registered tndetrnrk dﬂaterchrd lntemauornl Inc. ,,
: wall“ 1 0* - val I cad I Visa is a registered tnderrlrk omsii USA. Inc an! VISA imm-uonai I ; :{’JEYlé|'§E,;RR°LCl’F;qPFl’iLOg‘RAM

: 9. App") abso may guamm 50 I 5‘-""‘°"‘ *”°"'“°" 100% augngﬂtﬁﬁpg I - CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT

I MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON ‘TODAY | | ' 'N'5T°'*E 55*‘/‘C5 CENTER

: A Q——u—:—--3-n—uuQ¢uccD¢u.u— . :wE-VERVICEMOSTBRANDS ,

E N  W} : T  _ . I g _, . p l_ _ _»_ _ _ _ __ _ '1’: H NIASTEIRCARD/VISA/DISCOVER .

; l.\ OLR LABORATORIES Y0i’i.L . L 11113 I '|-'E I  ii

I 27;) 0:39 Tiigagiiﬂiiod Mira"

I, F - . . iriawrsnraraizrcﬁrvsenrrm ' °" °‘'‘° ‘’ +
-, l\D GIRAFFES, DOLPHINS, [,4 —— -—~—..—.—-~  L...._____.....l ‘
5. . - " 4 , ea-+1 F N V

5‘, , , . .2 2.‘  

 A Coiui. REEF. A RAINFOREST. .. .m ., VV&L Art m  
:3 With SFS you can study critical environmental ' A - _ g . I V
5 issues worldwide i’nc/udirig: -A ' ’ ' ' ‘ 1870 Wa:1}é§l§ti9.rﬁ‘%°1}fgﬁD1p1°ma

g 0 Wildlife Management in Kenya Scott No. 932 '
3‘? ° Marine Ecology in the Caribbean This stamp, issued in 1949, makes a great momento of Ma Lee SignatureIs{.E Lee Jr 4
B. 0 Rainforest Dynamics in Australia Washington and Lee. Or a nice touch used (with 26¢ Fiégugh Lee John’ Letéheli 4
T 0 Marine Mammais in Baja Mexico ggdiﬁional postage) 01:1 gfraduation annouriicefrnfents. M.Miley Edward Valentine ll

e ave a arge stoc o mint stamps an o irst '
day covers which were cancelled in Lexington on » W&L Copperplate. hand-colored
College Financial the day of issue’ W&LS:3l1  lifkrdlteiqueriilition art
. , ii s n son
Credit Aid 1 Singles 25¢ Mary an George }Wash1ngton pieces 4
For more information on Semester & Summer field Plate Blocks (4) $125 ' “ A Di ‘
research courses, come to: F9“ Panes (50) $1050 ﬂ . . 7
First Day Covers $1.00 to $3.25
University Center, Room 109 _ ‘
Monday, October 26 at 4 p,m_    ﬁeiﬁtgtzgsrsxgtzizggeet _
or write.‘ SFS. Box .4, /6 Broadway, Beverly, 1‘/I/i 0/915. (508) 927-7777   &   B    Saturday  ‘V
THE     31 South Main Street, Lexington 463-3355 . 10 ,,_m_ _ 5.30 p_m_ *
T H E W O R L D l S i C

Y 0 U R C 10 to 5, Monday thru Saturday E ’ I _ J1 p‘
, VARNER & POL_E_ F It D . W ’ § .
.  M r 3, ,A_ I. For your extra pieces oiﬂfriiruriituz as E  M E  E  g

’ K 115 s. Main St., Lexington 463-27.42 T  F 
<¢‘Read the Phi- OUTLETS  

  *
A E , ms AR, AN .
Artists in Cahoots 50% TO 30% DISCOUNT EVERYDAY
-GUARANTEED!
we RECEIVE MERCHANDISE FROM i

AMERICA'S MOST FAMOUS MAIL ORDER -
HOUSES. NEW SHIPMENTS EVERY WEEK!

Cooperative Gallery of Local Artists and Crafts People

Handcrafted silver and porcelain - . ,
jewlry, pone”. silk gem“ Downtown Lexin ton (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)

‘Scu1pmre_ woodwork, glass, paim_  On. ' Sal.  ‘ ‘
ings and photographs of local K  - J .
landscapes. Lexington landmarks
and Virginia ﬂowers.

. . .— - .--.~ ~-«— - — c_c.w - - - u u q - - u w u u w on o ti rs ‘,0.~t:t~,\v 9. ‘Innu\\n«Irv5w\v\sruwu,\,uv\;\(¢b.1tIiO.‘lr£\'h.II.¥llV.\\\\331.‘!

Wanted: A   «

Large Richmond travel agency looking for respon- '
sible, fun—loving student to set up holiday cruise . ‘

 Corner otwashlngton and Main Streets groups for C1a55mateS~ FREE TRIPS AND ’
' Lexington TRAVEL ALLOWANCES. Training and materi- ~

; 121 West Nelson Street/464-3500 oiilgii ggda .iliina'stE-¢;r%'a1i*ii “ii§3é.§::ii' (£1313: R0‘ 0 :

 

A

A

    

I

i The Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992

NEWS

Get a taste of the real Hill

By Law WHITE
Phi Contributing Writer

‘. Whilemanystudentsusespringterrn
to cram in an extra P.E. or take a
science that the previous semester’s
schedule just wouldn’t accommodate,
a select few will put their politics to the

Senior Todd Ammermann said he
interned through the program as a
sophomore with Sen. Richard Lugar
(R-Ind).

“They work like maniacs,”
Ammerman said, referring to Lugar’s
schedule. Connelly said students who
participate in the program lose any

preconceived notions or stereotypes
about Congress and the political sys-
tem.

‘Connelly said he enjoys having stu-
dents watch Congress in action and
said the program gives students valu-
able work experience. Connelly said
students in the program also have re-
sponsibilities outside their
congressman’s office. He holds weekly
lectures and discussions with the stu-

test in Washington, D.C.
The Washington Term Program,
aded by Associate Professor of Poli-
cs William Connelly, is an intensive
six weeks of learning the ins and outs
of the American political machine.
Connelly said student interns usu-
ally spend the term in the office of a
senator or representative doing office
work, responding to mail or taking
tﬁtes at hearings.

dents. Also, students must keep a jour-
nal and complete a research paper by
the end of the term.

Despite the hard work and hectic
schedules, Connelly said students ap-
preciate the program.

“lt’s a wonderful opportunity for
participant observation,” Connelly
said. “The students will tell you the
work is well worth it.”

All majors are eligible to participate
in the program. But students must have
completed Politics 101, 102 and 103
before they can apply.

Students who have questions about
the program can contact senior Sean
Burger. An alumnus of the program,
Burger serves as the program’s student
advisor.

E-mail service delivers to students

stamp or atelephone, all you need is the

By KATIE YDEL .
PM surf Wm“  address of the person you are
_¢ g to.
All‘ Washington and Lee students Although W&L has had an E-mail

and faculty can now send messages to
htmdreds of locations around the world,
all at the touch of a button.

Electronic mail,orE—mail,accounts
were set up for each student before
shool started.

“It’s an incredibly important new
way to be connected,” said Hugh
Blaclrmer, an associate professor at the
University Library.

E-mail makes it possible to send a
message to anyone at this school, or the

' or 400 other schools that connect
to W&L’s system. You don't need a

WELCOME PARENTS

system for the past three years, the new
system is easier to learn and use, said
Ruth Floyd, head of academic comput-
ing. Floyd said the computer depart-
ment has not been aggressive about
getting people to use the system. She
said setting up accounts for each stu-
dent will make it more popular.

‘ ‘We simply wanted to facilitate its
use,” Floyd said.

The school pays an annual fee for
the E-mail student tot he Virginia Edu-
cation and Research Network. Floyd
said the fee varies every year depend-

         

«'7: "JL”'_'"'_'"  _ v
 illliljﬂllii
h - Place Your Orders Now

For Our Exclusive Gold-Plated

W&L Colonnade
Christmas Ornament

       

I

FF  , ‘
BORN guano, INC.

. 16 WEST -WASHINGTON STREET
. LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA 24450
? (703)463—l832

ing on the numbers and the cost of
running the system. Last year the fee
was about $5,000. Because there is no
per use charge, the more the system is
used, the more cost effective it be-
comes.

Senior Jennifer McCann, a com-
puter science major and employee of
the computer center, corresponds regu-
larly with friends at other schools. She
handed out the E-mail addresses and
information during matriculation this
fall and found that students did seem
receptive to the idea of using the ser-
vice. She thinks it will help that the
newer system is easier to use.

‘ ‘More people are inclined to use it
or at least see what it is, ’ ’ McCarm said.

A

 \

Percentage of students at W&L and statewide agreeing that:

Most men accused of rape are really Innocent.

It a man doesn't have sex with a woman who
his masculinity may be questioned.

-18‘,/D

 

 

7 

     

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

/ and Accessories

g 23 N. Main St. (703)463-5988

% Lexington, VA 24450
 %

Results provided by the Dean of Students Ofﬁce

 

Survey finds attitude differences

C] From SURVEY, page 1

percentage of W&L women who agreed
that there is too much pressure to have
sex was lower than the state average,
64.3 percent to 66 percent.
Schroer-Lamont said the heightened
awareness of W&L women about rape
issues stems from the a signiﬁcant per-
centage of women know someone who
has been raped or sexually assaulted.
“A lot of women here know victims
who never came forward,” Schroer-
Lamont said. “They know there are

 .

 
    

 

Having the goblins and goulies over?
Let us custom design Halloween Invitations!
ALSO Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

T

PHONE: 463 - 1712

125 w. NELSON sr. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE posr OFEITCTE

FAX #: .463 -6918 Q

more situations occurring than [the
public] is aware of .’-’

Shannon Comer, ’93, wrote a re-
port on the survey results for a sociol-
ogy class. She said she was not sur-
prised by results showing W&L men
to be less sensitive to rape issues than
other college men.

“W&Lmay notbequiteasevolved
[on rape issues] because its only been
co-ed for a few years,” Comer said.
“More diverse schools are more aware
of these issues.”

Schroer-Lamont said the survey

  
    
  

  

130 S. Main St.

 

GREEKS & CLUBS

RAISE A COOL
‘1000
IN JUST ONE WEEK!
PLUS ‘I000 FORTHE

MEMBER WHO CALLS!
No obligation. No cost.

You also get a FREE
HEADPHONE RADIO

just for calling
1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65

Cannondale - - Diamond Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

indicates more rape education is needed
for men at W&L.

Schroer-Lamont said a rape aware-
ness videotape produced last year by a
W&L senior is available to any student
group that requests it. She said most of
the freshman women’s halls have
viewed the tape, as has Kappa Alpha
Theta, Alpha Phi Omega, the Women's
Forum, the peer counselors and the
University Choir.

Comer said the survey results dem-
onstrate that W&L has retained the
attitudes of an all-male school.

  

     

463-7969

Advertise in the Phi.
Cali Benji at 463-8581

Fall Back
Sunday!

2
0
0
o
u
9
I
I
0
o
9
9
u

 

 

Welcome Parents

 -  Still The Leading
Men’s Clothing Store In exinton

..,

Erttttin

All Suits    

SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts

IZOD, WOOLRICH - Sweaters

Chamois Shirts

Long Sleeve Sports Shirts

Woolrich Outerwear

Leather Watchbands

Shoes by Bass, Topsider, Clark’s, Walkover
Herman Survivors

Corduroy Pants

Cashmere Blend Topcoats

Red Wing Boots

Wool Slacks

Duckhead Khaki’s

W&L Belts, Dog Collars, Visors and Ties
100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos

Formal Shirts

Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts
Xmas Stockings for Sale

OPEN THIS SUNDAY 10 a.m.

Alnttt - lﬂettnta

Phone (703) 463-5383

Since 1963
STUDENT

CHARGE ACCOUNTS MASTER CARD

O

The Rlng-tum Phl, October 22, 1992 '

FEATURES

Dlinwihminln hi

I’ I’

Stress claims another victim

ASK DR. WORTH
By Dr. James Worth

W&L can be a very intense place. Do you
have any suggestions or ideas about stress
management?

Stress management strategies tend to fall
in three separate categories: making the
stress less intense, making yourself stron-
ger, or getting the hell away from the stres-
sors.
The ﬁrst two, which can be done together, emphasize
staying engaged with the
stressors, but the third

an excellent social life, and still has time for involve-
ment with extra-curricular activities, you will invari-
ably ﬁnd an expert time manager.

Talk to him about how he manages his time.

Another thing I do in my own life which I advocate
to students is making the effort to write down a plan for
your week which includes speciﬁc times and activities.

You can purchase weekly organizers at a book store
or you can come to Mrs. Calkins’ ofﬁce in the Univer-
sity Center and she will give you one of my handy-
dandy time-management sheets.

It really does help.

Meditation, self -reflection and even prayer (for those
who pray) are ways to ground ourselves and face our day
from a centered, focused frame of mind.

Reducing the stress
at its source is the sec-

one takes you away from
them.

There are many ways
of making yourself stron-
ger, physically and emo-
tionally.

Don’t ever underesti-
mate the importance of
physical conditioning in
helping you cope with
psychological stress.

When Bobbie Fisher

Questions to Dr. Worth can be

submitted to Carol Calkins in the
University Center.

ond major approach.

If the stress comes
from poor communica-
tion, a lack of
assertiveness,orfeelings
which do not get ad-
equately expressed, you
can develop better inter-
personal coping skills.

This can be accom-
plished by reading, talk-
ing with others you trust

5:).
L

was the world chess

champion he always in-

cluded strenuous exercise as part of his preparation for
a big chess match.

Eating three wholesome meals per day, getting
enough sleep (based on your own requirements, which
vary from one individual to another), and getting regu-
lar aerobic exercise will enable you to see better
times and do better things.

I personally advocate jogging and
usually run ﬁve miles in the early
morning. It has changed my life.

But the main thing is that you
have a routine (preferably five
times per week) in which you get
your heart rate above 130 for at
least 20 minutes.

When you get those endorphins
coursing through your body it pro-
duces a subtle but lovely high that is
all the more delicious because you
know it is natural and healthy.

Another important way to make your-
self more affective and thus better able to cope
with stress is through good time-management practices.

Whenever you meet a student who has good grades,

and learning from them
or a counselor.
Roommate problems, romance pains, family strains,
and all the other interpersonal stressors are made worse
by either holding your feelings in, exploding with anger
or doingthose little cutting things whic “get even” with
someone without really ﬁnding a solution.
Even academic stress can be reduced by
talking with the professor, who might have
some tips for you to increase your effec-
tiveness or, in some circumstances,
might be willing to negotiate a stick-
ing point with you.

When these two approaches fail
it is sometimes best to leave the
field.

That might mean ending a rela-

tionship, withdrawing from an ac-
tivity, dropping a course, or in an
extreme case even temporarily with-
drawing from school.
I am not saying you should duck your
responsibilities.

However, if you are being overwhelmed by
unrelenting stress, sometimes a retreat is the most re-

sponsible action available to you.

The College Democrats
Salute

the Parents

of the
Washington and Lee

Community

JOIN US
in
Electing a REAL

“Education President”
VOTE

Clintonl Gore
1992

For more information on how you can help
put People First,
CALL: (703) 463-8984

0

I

Buddha, harlequins lurk in duPont:

Eclectic art exhibition features faculty’s collections

By JOYCE BAUFISTA and CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Of The Ring-tum Phi Staff

A

sculpture, painting and

rt from far and near comprises an eclectic exhibi-
tion currently displayed at duPont Gallery.
“Faculty Choice” is a unique collection of

K

vital, the vigor and the youthful life force that the scene
 conveyed,” Youngblood said. ,
Another work byaW&L artistand on loan from Jennings

is Freedom Riders, an acrylic on canvas by Mark Faverrnan

in 1969.

Also in the collection

graphicartlentby Wash-
ington and Lee faculty
members.

“I wanted to show the
students that the profes-
sors that they admire and
respect have an in their
lives,” Professor of Art
HistoryParnelaSimpson
said. She organized and
curates the exhibition.

“I tried to get profes-
sors from each depart-
ment to lend art,” she
said.

Simpson said she
asked 30 faculty mem-
bers to select works of
artfrom their collections
and loan them for the

are ceramics created by
the wife of Professor of '
Psychology Leonard E.
Jarrard.

Associate Professor
of Classics Mafio
Pellicciaroloanedapor-
trait of himself painte
by a former teacher 0
his, Howard Simon.

Among the more ex
otic pieces of art are Twat
Harlequins by Gﬂld
Sevenni, an Italian fu-
turist, and on loan from

Jennings said Faverrnan is now the head of a higgly ‘
acclaimed design and graphic arts ﬁrm in Boston.

Professor of Politics '

Delos Hughes.

He purchased the I

Sevenni silk screen

exhibit.

She also asked the
faculty to write a brief
statement about the
piece, the medium, the
artist and what the work of art
means to them.

Statements accompany all the
works.

Among the works on exhibi-
tion are samplings of W&L tal-
ent.

“I was impressed by the num-
ber of faculty buying student
works,” Simpson said.

Both Professor of Journalism
John Jennings and Associate Pro-
fessor of German Robert
Youngblood have loaned pieces
created by W&L artists.

From Morning to Midnight,
an oil on canvas painted by Paul
Lee in 1991, was inspired by a
play of the same title that the artist
read in Youngblood’s German lit-
erature class in 1989.

“When he showed me this
painting, I was astounded not just
by Paul's bold use of colors, his
technical language and
exuberence, but also by the elan

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The’Fling-tum Phi

Platter, bowl, footed bowl and stoneware vase by Jan
Jarrad, wlfe of Professor of Psychology Leonard E.
Jarrad.

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

one of two Italian harlequin prints on
loan from Professor of Polltlcs Delos
Hughes.

prints at Oberlin Co1l9ge
as an undergraduate.
“They were my first
an purchase and an in- '
troduction to a subject
which I still study, the
connection between politics and ‘
artisiticexpression,”Hughes said. ,
Other works include two 17th-
century engravings, a Buddha
sculptureandaNavajo“Yei”Rug.
Closer to home are works by
American artists such as Armin

Landeck. -

Rooftops by Landeck, on loan
from Professor of English Severn
Duvall, is a reminder of “the roof

formations he saw, staring out of ,

a Warsaw apartment building to-

ward Piekna and Marzalkowska.” *

The show runs until Nov. 12. _

Gallery hours are 8 a.m. .5
p.m., Monday through Friday. .

This Saturday and Sunday the
gallery will be open 10 a.m. -2 ’

p.m. _
“It really IS an exhibition about

5

collecting. The statements have '

been very personal,” Simpgn
said. “That personal connection
is what students have found most

V

You ﬂlre C ordicdiy
I noited to it
Torents ‘Weekend

Reception

fridoy, Oetolier 23
4:30 - 6:30 p.1n.
in goines gotenouse

Sponsored Ey
The King-Tum Tﬁi
and the Society of

1’rofe55iono[jonrno[i.5t5

ﬂllfrnemﬁers of the ‘Wc’rL community and parents

are invited to attend.

rewarding.”
l

l

    

O

The Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992

 

 

FEATURES

 

 

 

 

Q
hypochon- 0 \\ . Q Mandy Irons, is the
  Moliere play opens tonight    w
daughter, his Angelique and C I d C d
wife and her lover. Clearite together. 0 O n n a e  O r
These characters “Toinette is
can all be found to- witty, spirited and
night in Moliere’s B)/_J°YCl3 BAU'"§TA she always knows ACROSS
“The Imaginary In- Phi Features Editor what she’s doing,” 1 Trodden way
valid,” the latest of- Irons said.“Though 15 l“ ""5 ‘flannel’ 0'
fering from W&L’s _ she is mean to the 13 §;"'/"‘3'r""
theater department. Due to the fall ab- played by freshman invalid, she likes him. She's only try- 15 Roofing tile
“Our production is a darker version sence of Associate Rob Neel, but is be- ing to save him from himself.” 16 George
ghan usual interpretations of the play,” Professor of Drama trothed to Thomas At first, Irons had trouble with the 17 Sgﬁggﬁginger
visiting actor Evan Bridenstine said. J .D. Martinez, Diafoirus, played by language of the French romantic com- 13 wise lawggve,
Ironically, in the first performance Birdenstine is also third-year law stu- edy. 19 Milan money
of the play, the sick playwright played teachingtwotheater dent James Scales. “The language wasn't like every- 32 gi"d‘(*:_)°" ‘°W°'
the invalid and died an hour after the classes. He gradu- “ T h e y day language," she said. “But once 24 waws ,em,.e
performance, said Bridenstine, who ated recently with [Angelique and rehearsal started it was hilarious.” 25 Arch
plays the invalid, Argan. an M.F.A from the Cleante] just basi- Some actors also said the costumes 33 gculptftrf
.» “The extra scenes reﬂect what was University of Vir- cally are ‘in love’ were another necessary nuisance. O‘,’(§"(’.3o,y°'
going on backstage during Moliere’s ginia. throughout the “The costumes were very constrict- 3 insert mark
last performance,” he said. “Evan is phe- ,whole play,” Dillon ing," Neal said. 34 Gratings
The three extra scenes chosen by nomerial,” sopho- said. 4 “I couldn't breathe, my corset was 32 :;2ff“:°
Director Al Gordon are based on the more Michael Neal Neel describes so tight,” Irons said. 37 symbol ova, 3
works of Moliére’sbiographer, Mikhail said. “He definitely ,,__u__W . N 1. mi his character as Overall the cast enjoyed the many vowel
Bulgakov. addedanentire new m ,f;''';;;;.':;’ g'z';f2f;2‘;7''_| ”_ “clever and quite the rehearsals. 33 ‘gfslgners _ A _
V “The scenes are very well docu- concept to the play. Kw" 2;-M OGMW--2 an charmer.” ‘‘I love the energy,” Neel said. 40 women ©‘iiiiial;i1i§’E°.s’1?5'$%s°"'°°5' '"°' 10/22/92
Qnented,” Bridenstine said. It will be sad to see "“°" "’ " °"°" However, he has Birdentstine said he enjoys work- container La ,
Bridenstine said Gordon originally him leave after this term.” harsher words for Scales’ character of ing with a small crew. 1; /Film“ '— 3‘ Week 5 Answers
asked him to direct the play, but he All the actors agree that working Thomas Diafoirus, “It creates more dynamic personal 44 Vgiﬁ, 6 Animal
could not because of time conﬂicts. with Birdenstine as the invalid is excit- “He is a total dillard and complete relationships,” he said. “We all ended 45 Feedbag tiller assemblage
ing. hom-dog,”Neel said.“He’s constantly up laughing a lot in the rehearsal pro- 46 Certain 7 Sermon
“He doesn't have the actor’s atti- stickinghistongueinher [Angelique’s] cess. I just hope it will be a piece that 47 Eggggfgge for g¥¥mLf°mma"d
tude,” senior Erin Walsh, who plays ear.” will transfer to the audience so they’ll animat food 10 _ at the wheel
Beline,said.“He’snotahaughty diva.” Toinette, played by sophomore laugh, too.” 50 Skirtllket 1; gasnlonable
“Argan is just a big baby,” _ _ 3.. , g ,, 9‘"“°" 5 °'°
Bridenstine saiq. "He’s afraid that ..-e  “3¥§’.'Z:..'I‘.."' l?‘é’:§é'l£Z%Z‘§.
something is going to happen to his H —~ ‘  54 Happening 23 Limbs _
body that he doesn't understand.” :2 ‘C';W°'*i°'d 3: gage‘ 3”"
Neal plays M’ Bmmefayr the 59 Sglgri: solution 27 Lift 9
invalid’s notary and the lover of his so “Coglto —- 2e Kilmer work
client’s wife, Beline. 5Um"_ 29 W°'”°5
“M. Bonnefay is devious and cun- 2; _'?:f,i“s';,°,eas, 3? §§$'sha"°d
ning,” Neal said. “He definitely throws 63 Regrets 32 Put forth ettort
himself into his work, if you know DOWN 3-; aarvkcolors
what Imean.” °“ 3
B_°ml_ef3}' is hiregd by A783“ to draw E giidifiyyears  :3?“ color 44 James Earl -— 50 Transmit
up his will, but gets involved in a secret 3 Song 41 Single: pref. 46 — macabre 51 Spiritual guide
kw? affair with Argmrs second wife’ S reﬁt‘: §°bust 43 yoaggrghensive  Iltfsziaiiinriifon  grgiferhiig mam
B51319‘ _ hand trip 49 French river 57 — Alamos
“She is very sweet and pleasant but
- also very manipulative,” Neal said.
‘ “She knows what she wants and will go _
by $;,;*,;°;"“‘; 85:5;-W5 dew, WLUR weekday . radio schedule
. 3'“ 1* Morning Mag (Rock) - Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.
tion of her character. J
.. - - . . azz - Monday, 9 a.m.-l la.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
She is like Glenn Close in Dan- AM 0 . .
- m - verture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-ll a.m.
gerous Liasons, she said. . .
. . Inspirational - Thursday, 9 a.rn.-11 a.m.', Monday, 2 p.m.—3p.m.
Belme and Bonnefay are trying to . . .
- . ,; Public Affairs -Monday through Friday, 11 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
have Argan sign away all his wealth to . C .
- - .  ~ ountry - Monday through Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
herinsteadoftohisdaughterAngelique, .
. ; Dance/Rap - Tuesday, 2 p.m.—3p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-1 1 :30 p.m.
_ _ played by freshman Jeanne Dillon. .~ \ I , .
Photo by Amy French. The Ring-tum Phi .. . Rock - Wednesday through Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.
u She [Angelique] has some strength phmo b pamck Hm, . _ _
. . . ,, Y Y Breakthrough Rock - Monday through Friday, 3.30 p.m.-5.30 p.m.
but it is undermined b .
Jeanne Dmon prepams ‘O’ one - - y everyone’ Classical Showcase — Monday through Thursda 6 m -9 m
gun.-ggbacksgagescenesaddeu Dillon said. . _ . Toinette, the saucy mald (Mandy Irons), tricks Argan, the "ImagI- Third Em. _ Monda mm“ h Frida 12 a m _23;’m P‘ ' P’ '
by Dﬂgctof A] Gofdgm - Angelique is In love wlth Cleante, nary lnvalld" (EVBI1 Bridenstine.) y g y’ ' ' ' '

Corbin Suits/Sport Coats
Ruff Hewn - Men’s
Boston Trader
Sero/Gitman Shirts
B.D. Baggies
Jones

Ruff Hewn Ladies
Lanz "
Woolrich

J aysonYounger
Timberland

Serving Washington & Lee Since 1926

Thank You For Your Support

In appreciation - we are offering
ALL SPORT COATS, BLAZERS AND SUITS

20% Off

LADIES JACKETS
20% Off

.:. 
.. _. . .. l ._
...'.'.1‘.... 1!-vri. :1 . - :

Men’s Woolrich
Canvas Jackets

See
Our Ladies Window

‘‘

._ 7  ..  ;, ~:. . , _.  - .,‘. V 1':  _; 1.":: ".  —s .
 . A -__. .-..', ,_ _ -‘ _, o A _ , . . ,- ._ _. - - -  -. .- ‘ v t'_ I, ..
A. - r - -' ' e . . .. _ .. V - -

. . . . _ ,_ ..i..... . . . »

.~. ,..:. . .- . _. , - 4

5/C§
';

A Smash Hit! Great Denim Skirts

lThe College Town Shop

AMEX. - Master Charge — VISA

4:.
4”‘ :1’-

'  "--~
 C._,‘ ‘is.

Open Sunday — 10 to 3 111 West Nelson Street

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 22, 1992

On The Merrill Lynch Fast Track

Interviewing ii; CHARLOTTFSVILLE “if? December 3 & 4

Resumes will be accepted through November 12th

Meet Kevin Rendino, Carolyn Jones and Patrice
Franco. They participated in the Merrill Lynch
Individual Investor Intern/MBA Program and
their program experience helped them ad-
vance quickly to new professional challenges.
Kevin, Carolyn and Patrice will continue to rely
on what they learned during the program to
help them succeed throughout their Merrill
Lynch careers.

The Intern Program is available to new
college graduates. The MBA Program is avail-
able to new MBAs. These programs can help
put you on the Merrill Lynch fast track. As a
program participant you are offered a challeng-
ing position under the guidance of a senior ,
manager. Program positions are available in
product development, marketing, operations
and finance.

Throughout the program you are exposed
to firm strategy through meetings with senior
management and you participate in task force
projects which help a variety of business units
to meet their strategic objectives. Formal
classes address career development issues
and help you enhance your leadership skills.
You are given responsibility and accountability

and your program experience will help posi-
tion you for fast-track success at Merrill Lynch.

Candidates for the Individual Investor
Intern/MBA Program have outstanding records
of achievement in their academics, extracur-
ricular activities and work experience. They
are interested in the challenge of the fast-paced
financial services industry and want to be rec-
ognized for their accomplishments.

If you have the talent, creativity, energy
and commitment to be a winner at Merrill
Lynch, the Individual Investor-Intern/MBA Pro-
gram is offering an unequaled opportunity to
excel. To find out more, write us:

Individual Investor Intem/MBA Program
Merrill Lynch

P.O. Box 9056

Princeton, NJ 08543-9056

fig Merrill Lynch

A tradition of trust.

Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer.
© 1992, Merrill Lynch & Company, Inc.

 

  

, me Fling-tum Mir, October 22, 1992

 

    

-   .>pIugE.;
FARM FRESH

CATFSH
ii.LETS

 
  
  
      
   
     

 

  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
    

 ' LIMIT 3 WITH
;: ADDITIONAL
 PURCHASE LB
IT: IIIIIIIIIIIIII O

   
 
 
   
     

   

  

FLORIDA
~ ORANGES

       
 

   
    
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
   

 

DIET COKE OR
COCA-COLA

87

REDUCED

6 PACK
20 oz. .R.

     
  
   

,
 Women s soccer

  

 

 

 

 

   
  
  

   
 

‘' STUDENTS
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER

COURTESY CARD.

   
 

 

narrows YOU to
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT oven I34
HARRIS rrrrrsn
Iocarrcisrs IN
eroaein, scum
CAROIJNA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00
. COUPON AND SAVE.

   
  
         
       
    
 

   
  

 

    

IN THE DELI-BAKERY FRESHLY MADE - LB.

 

I I
AR NI ALAD
I Mag“ 0 s I
I COUPON I
I I
I Per F_cI II.,.PerVisIt I
I  I
21 TIIS $27’, PLU 2160

I I992.  I
. °eir.t~   g I

Qﬁ IIDUIISTOCIEI J

an: up -— u— : 1 1 -I -II 1 1

VALUABLE 24¢ COUPON
2.5 oz. PKG. - HAM, CHICKEN, runxsr on

  
   
  
  
 

I Mr SLICED BEEF I
I c6"u'i3~ I
I I
I ~;:.‘t.§;i:r.;w:.i.  I
I .:.."'t;m1;,.»‘;*:Pv%2..$(,q . I
lair?‘  I
21 ThruOcto 727',‘-ii " PlU2l64

I “’”- ,, _,  . MEAT I

:__________J

 

 

PAGE 9

edges Lynchburg

By J Usi1N IVICNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Two overtime victories halted the
women's soccer team’s seven-game
losing streak and secured a fourth seed
in next week's conference tournament.

Wednesday's 2-0 overtime victory
at Lynchburg College wrapped up a 4-
4 record in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and fourth place in the
standings. Before the game, head coach
I an Hathom spoke of the importance of
a victory.

“We need to win so that our destiny
is not in someone else’s hand," she
said.

A loss could have dropped the Gen-
erals to the fifth or sixth seed, depend-
ing upon this Saturday's Sweet Briar-
Lynchburg game. A Sweet Briar win
could have sent the Generals to Vir-
ginia Beach to take on a strong Vir-
ginia Wesleyan squad in the opening
round of the ODAC Tournament on
Wednesday.

Butapair of goals mid-way through
the first overtime earned Washington
and Lee the fourth spot.

Nearly nine minutes into the 15-
minute period, junior tri-captain Angie

Carrington blasted the game-winner
off a feed from senior tri-captain Su-
san Moseley. Carrington shouted glee-
ful approval after the 15-yard shot sailed
over the Homets' goalie.

Less than two minutes later, sopho-
more Jenny Lynch took a long lead
pass from junior Aspen Yawars and
beat the keeper one-on-one.

Junior tri-captain Kate Stimeling
notched her first shutout of the year as
she and the defense thwarted
Lynchburg’s attack for 120 minutes.
Juniors Allison Lewis, Kathleen
Eastland, and Yawars, along with
sophomore Marina Jackson, denied
Lynchburg easy shots and beat them to
loose balls.

The strong week began Saturday
with a 2-1 overtime victory at Guilford
College (NC). The win was the Gener-
als first in a month and raised their
ODAC record to 3-4.

W&L outplayed Guilford, but
trailed 1-0 after a first half goal by
Moseley. The senior beat her defender
and evened the score with 3:33 remain-
ing in the game, sending the game into
two l5-minute overtime periods.

Freshman Jennifer Robison headed
in a Moseley comer kick for the game-
winning goal in the first overtime. The

goal was Robison's third of the season.

The defense held Guilford to three
shots in overtime and 10 for the game.

The defense came out strong against
a better Methodist squad on Sunday,
the second game in the North Carolina
road swing.

Stimeling saved nine shots in the
first half. before giving up two second-
half goals. The offense had several
good opportunities, but failed to score,
as the Generals fell 2-0.

W&L enters Saturday's Parents
Weekend game with Messiah with a 4-
9 record and their tournament berth
locked up. Hathom feels strongly about
the team's chances to upset Messiah.

“We really play well when parents
are here,” she said, “and we could
upset them[Messiah]."

The team is much more confident
now than a week ago and it shows in
their play.

“It came down to scoring a goal and
winning a game to break the [scoring]
drought," said Hathom.

The Generals‘ open the tournament
athome against the winner of the Sweet
Briar-Lynchburg contest.

If it's Sweet Briar. W&L will be
looking to avenge a 1-0 loss a couple of
weeks ago.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

It was bedtime for Bridgewater
after the sun set on Brewbaker Field
Wednesday night as the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s soccer team
pounded the Eagles, 9-0.

The Bridgewater College soccer
team is the first the school has fielded
since 1942.

Thus, the Generals made the in-
fants of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference look as if they belonged
at Brewbaker playing for the adja-
cent Maury River Middle School.

The contest was the first night
game ever for the W&L men’s soc-
cer, and the Generals lit up the

.  .scoreboard foras manygoals as they

had scored in their previous nine
games combined.

Brewbaker’s lights went on
shortly after game time. W&L expe-
rienced an immediate power surge,
scoring four times in a 13 minute
span.

Freshman Bill Garcia started off

Men make history with
first night game at home

the Nightmare on Waddell Street with
a breakaway goal ten minutes into the
game. It was Garcia’s second this year.

Three minutes later, senior Mike
Mitchem used his head for his first of
three goals off an assist by freshman
Chad Dobbins.

Mitchem, a tri-captain who is two
assists shy of the W&L career mark of
22, added his second goal less than one
minute after the first, drilling home a
ten-yarder after a scramble in front of
the Eagles’ net.

Though Mitchem went assist-less,
his three goals were the eighth, ninth,
and tenth of his distinguished W&L
career. -

Freshman Nick Tatar scored once
intheﬁrsthalf and classmate Bo Manuel

-nailed scores to-give
Generals’ freshmen four goals for the
game. Junior Dan Rhodes also scored
two in the second half to round out the
slaughter.

Senior Reid Murphy, the Generals’
leading scorer with three goals coming
into the game, assisted on three of the
first half goals, giving the tri-captain

-«ingten for their regular season fi-

six assists this year.

W&L (5-7. 3-4 ODAC) could
have made it much worse. The Gen-
erals outshot Bridgewater 23-3.

The shutout was the fifth of the
season for W&L. Unfortimately,
they had stniggled to find their scor-
ing touch before Wednesday.

A 4-0 shutout of the Generals by
Virginia Wesleyan last Saturday left
them scorelessintwostraightgames.

Overall, the Generals had been I
outscored by their opponents 20-14
before meeting Bridgewater (1-10,
0-7 ODAC). The Eagles have scored
just seven goals all season, but 15 of
their 21 players are freshmen and
sophomores.

The Generals will remain in Lex-

nale on Saturday.

W&L will take on Lynchburg
College aspartof the Parents Week-
end sports schedule. Next week, the
Generals willtrytopreventthelights
from going out on their season as
play begins in the ODAC Tourna-
merit.

Welcome Parents

Reservations Recommended

(703) 366-2444

BORDEN COMMONS

A Compliment to University Life

FOR SALE

‘  , $1.00 ”couI=oN VALUABLE 34¢ COUPON one and Two Bedroom
* orsposnsrs Condominiums

.I - S I 900  I : cnrcrasr LIGHTER I
‘I I I W“ I Well Lighted Parking Lot * Maintenance Free * Cable T.V.
‘I   I I COUPON I Air Conditioning * Equipped Kitchen * Decks or Patios
‘ . Wh dD Hk-U*C 'ttC

.I , PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I I NTg;-§§3ggggJ{}geYd_ I as er an We .00 P OM16“ ° amp“

I 0 I I P|éi:nFiL0IIeCP<‘>;P‘;>i'sti' I From Mid $40’s to Low $70’s

‘  P  Itbrnoo. Directions: West on Nelson Street (Route 60), left on Borden Road, one block on right.

I I

I , OFFER GOOD OCT. 21 THRU OCT. 27, I992 2| ﬁgogm tgtggf pm 2159 Three blocks from Washington and Lee

.| __-_.-_, PRODUCE I I , 1992- ' NI=s GROCERY I
II °°ii’II?rNl  , _ _ . I I cggﬂeiu H “at - I

-—  A V A $3 runs 8! G
Ls::".... _"‘.‘L’E’.“__I _.__....._.....__._..I BAKER REAL ESTATE

 
 

  

107 East Washington

     

Street * P. O. Box 723 * Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-7319

        
   

I   Throu October 27, I99

Prices in This Ad Ettective Wednesday October 21 Through uesdciy, October 27 I992. In Lexington Stores
‘ On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Giodiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.
. r

Tom Baker, W&L '55 Scott Baker, W&L ’81

I

 

 

 

Last Week:

 
   
      
 

  
   

WTen- MWC 6 W&

   

Football- W&L 24, H-SC 21 (3-2)
WP- W&L 8,Richmond 6 10-9)

MSoc-W&L 9 B’water 0 ( -7
WSoc- W&L 2,Lynchbur 0 org (4-9)
VB- W&L 3,Sweet Briar (1 -l )

CC-(W) 1st at State;§l\/1’! at State

 

S

Ellie iﬂing-tum lﬁlri

PORTS

   
 

This Week:

Football- Sewanee 10/24, 1:30 .m.

WP- at EWPA Invit. 10/24&2

MSoc- L nchbur 10/24, 2:00 p.m.
WSoc- essiah, 0/24, 12:00 pm. .
VB- Hollins 10/22, 5:30 p.m.
CC-(M&W) W&L Invit. 10/24, 10:30

PAGE 10

By SEAN O’RoUrtxiz
Phi Sports Editor

Do you remember the commer-
cial phrase, “Do you know me?”

Of course you do, it was all over
television, and that is where a great
number of us spend most of our
time.

Well, Josephine Schaeffer is a
perfect candidate to start a new se-
ries of those commercials.

She's quickly becoming a na-
tionallyknown figureincross coun-
try, but her feats are just now being
fully realized. '

Schaeffer led the women’s team
to their first ever State Division IU
111 Championships this past week-
end, while winning her fifth con-
secutive race.

- Schaeffer’s success is a pleasant
surprise for head coach Jim
Phemister, but it’s even more sur-
prising to her.

“I am very surprised,” Schaeffer
said in a very modest tone.

“I didn’t know what to expect in
college races. But the team keeps
pushing me, and Coach Phernister
is a great help.”

Schaeffer finished first in the

Schaeffer runs
away with mark

meet, setting a course and school
record with a time of 17:54. It was
also a personal best for the fresh-
man from Memphis, Tenn.
Sophomore Kim Herring was
ﬁfth overall, freshman Amy Mears
was sixth, senior Nicole Casteel

was 10th and sophomore Teresa '

Lamey was 14th. All their times
were personal bests.

The ﬁve top-20 finishes pushed
the Generals five points ahead of
powerhouseMaryWashington Col-
lege and 20 ahead of Christopher
Newport.

The win leaves the team in good
shape entering the home stretch.
The women and men compete in
tliehome invitational this weekeend.

Schaeffer says the ultimate goal
is to win the regions.

“I want this season to end with
the W&L women’s cross country
team winning the regions and going
to nationals.”

Schaeffer is almost assured of
making nationals and she gives most
of the credit to her fellow runners
and Phemister.‘

“My success is all because of the
great support from the team and
Coach Phemister.” -

Generals water polo gains revenge against Richmond’

W&L nips the Tigers, 24-21-  

MacLane lost for the season with a separated shoulder

By SEAN O’RoURi<E
Phi Sports Editor

Streaks. Streaks. Streaks.

There are good ones, and there are
bad ones.

There are winning streaks and los-
ing streaks; hitting streaks and scoring
streaks.

The Washington and Lee football
team had a number of streaks entering
Saturday’s contest against the
Hampden-S ydney Tigers.

They wanted to end them all.

What streaks, you ask?

Well: its first home win since Nov.
10, 1990; first Old Dominion Athletic
Conference win since Nov. 3, 1990;
and its first back-to-back wins since
the two previous dates.

The Generals succeeded in exorcis-
ing those ghost-streaks.

The Generals played one of their
finest all-around games of the season
against their ODAC rivals, coming out
victorious, 24-21.

“It was anice win for our kids,” said
head coach Gary Fallon. “Hampden-
Sydney was voted to be runner-up in
the ODAC. It’s a real feather in our
kids’ caps.”

The offense was again placed on the
shoulders of sophomore Michael
MacLane, and he responded with three
touchdown runs.

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

MacLane scored twice in the sec-
ond quarter on runs of 21 yards and five
yards.

His third came in the third quarter
on a rim of four yards, which put the
Generals ahead 24-14.

W&L needed all three touchdowns
because the Tigers pulled to within
three on a 55-yards punt return for a
touchdown by Chris Haddock.

“The special teams played well,”
said Fallon. “They just missed a few
tackles on the return. I think it serves a
good notice that they must get better.”

The final outcome was assured by
the defense.

The Tigers had possession with a
little overa minute to go and trailing by
three.

The Tigers went for it all on their
first play.

Quarterback Brian Crist tried to hit
one of his receivers down the right
sideline, but freshman Stuart Hogue
stepped in front to pick off the lame-
duck offering.

The win came at a major cost,
though.

MacLane was lost for the season
with a third degree separation of his
left shoulder. The injury is not the
dreaded, career-ending, but it will be at
least six months before he is finished
with his rehabilitation. .

Head trainer Tom Jones said the

    
    
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
         
   
   
    
  
     
    
  
   
  
  
    

OCTOBER 22, 1992

Photo by Jameson Leonardi. The Ring-tum Phi
Torn Mason takes off around the right slde late In the fourth quarter
of Saturday’s win over M-SC. Mason takes over for Michael‘-
MacLane, who was lost for the season with a separated shouller._
injury will not require surgery and show his talent.

should heal in time to work out in the “lt’stough losing Mike, butTommy
spring. has the talent and now will have to

Fallon says that junior Tommy show it on the field. He will have to
Mason must now step forward and step up and play well.” I

   
     
   
     

By MARK S  foul. . _ _ . _ At numerous times in the period, Richmond’s coach, on his only shot attempt. '
phi smff wme, Head coach Page Remillard said the officials quickly disrriayed by his tearn’s temporary ineptitude, made enough Even though the win was an incredible emotional lift fo -«
established a tight game. of a show to attract the attention of many of the W&L the team, Remillard said the game was by no meansaperfe

“The ref established early how he was going to call the
game. He was tough in the shallow end, and that’s what we
were defending first.”

faithful.
The coach did not escape without hearing the rhythmic
chant of his name falling from the gallery above.

one. 9»
“I thought we dominated the game, therefore, to only wi
by two goals, means there were some things that we didn’}

The highlight of the Washington and Lee water polo
team’s week was a showdown with the University of Rich-

mond Spiders at Twombly Pool. This put W&L in the precarious position of playing the Remillard gave credit to the gathering for its role in the do right.
W&L entered the match at 9-9 after being 7-3 earlier in rest of the game withouta starter. W&L answered with their procession of the game. “It comes back to our offense. We think we can create . .
the season. defense. “The crowd instilled pride in the players. It made them lot of counter attack opportunities. We should be gettin
Junior Greg Golub and senior P.J. Waicus helped right The Generals’ tenacious defense afforded the visitors want to perform well in front of their peers.” better shots.” ‘
the team's ship with some spectacular play, leading theteam few quality chances.- s In the ﬁnal frame, Richmond rallied to close the margin W&L will have two more shots at their in-state rivals.

to an inspired 8-6 win.

It didn’t start off well, though.

With four minutes gone in the first quarter, senior co-
captain Chris Hag ge was ejected from the game for his third

By the end of the first half, the capacity crowd saw W&L
carry a 4-3 lead into the locker room.

The third stanza was dominated by the Generals. Rich-
mond managed only one goal.

to one with roughly a minute left in the game. The defense
held and the comeback fell short.

Golub paced the Generals with five goals, junior Jacob
Berrnan added two, and freshman Patrick McKenna scored

First at the EWPA Division III Invitational. A week
later, the two could meet at the Southem Water Polo
Championships held at Hampden-Sydney, which begins on
Halloween.

4

0

THE

TUDENT CTIVITIES

OARD 

AND

 G°aham—Lee-Wan J\/ .- _ ,
present 1 , 

Wednesday Night in the Pit: 

A Mock Presidential Debate   3

followed by   A .

“A Night of Dixieland Jazz” -3

with ‘

GA 7

Wednesday, October 28th, 1992

 
   
 

