Y
‘ri3l'l"3'i

‘HA T2, ._

Q2"--4
V1 1

Grand Finale

Mitchem, Steinbrook, Moseley
Get School Records
In Final Games

YoU’RE GETTING SLEEEEEPY

Popular Hypnotist
Will Have You Speaking
An Alien Language

0

  itittg-tum iﬂlti

Hill says
_no to Phi
bulk sale

By JAMES LAKE
Special to the Phi

Washington and Lee won’t buy its
faculty and staff a group subscription
to TheRing-tum Phi, W&L’s academic
deans have decided.

John‘Elrod, dean of W&L’s Col-

kge of Arts and Sciences, said he, Law
School Dean Randall Bezanson and
Commerce School Dean Larry Pep-
pers agreed not to use university money
to pay for a carnpuswide subscription
to the newspaper, which faculty and
staff previously received for free.
0 “We are unclear about the ways in
which [a subscription] arrangement
might change the relation of the news-
paper to the W&L community,” Elrod
said. “Until we better understand this
matter, we believe that institutional
funds should not be used for this pur-
pose and that faculty members should
subscribe individually if they so de-
s1re.”

Elrod’s comments came in an Oct.
28 letter to Phi Executive Editors
Cathryn Lopiccolo and Richard Peltz.
The letter was a response to the editors’
decision to charge non—students 25 cents
per copy for the newspaper.

Signs in the University Center and
the Co-op ask non-students to leave 25
cents in a nearby envelope when they

pick up the paper. The newspaper costs .

70-75 cents per copy to produce,
opiccolo estimated, with most of the
cost being covered by advertising.
Traditionally, the Executive Com-
mittee has treated the Phi like any other
student organization, granting it money
from the beginning of the year. This
year, however, the EC approved a sub-

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

Ninety women signed up on Oct. 29 for sorority Rush, which begins in January.

Flushin’ 101

Mixer prepares women to rush

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

Ninety freshman women gathered in Evans
Dining Hall Oct. 29 to register for sorority Rush,
mingle with upperclass women and learn a little
about sororities at Washington and Lee.

“The main purpose of the event is to have
[registration be] more than picking up a piece of
paper,” Panhellenic * Council Publicity Chair
Joanna Love said. “All chapters [were] there, but
not for Rush purposes. We just want to encourage
people to go through Rush.”

Panhel President Carrie Eubanks said Chi
Omega, Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa
Gamma and Pi Beta Phi actives were not required
to attend, but that each sorority was well repre-
sented. Eubanks said that though 90 freshmen
and upperclass women paid their $20 Rush fee
Thursday, women can register until Nov. 20.

Rho Chi, or rush counselor, Kate Townley
said women mingled and munched much longer
than the scheduled 45 minutes.

“Most of the freshmen were talking to sorority
members. [Freshmen] were real psyched because
of the whole Greek thing and not because of a
particular sorority.”

This fall, each freshman was assigned a Rho
Chi, a sorority active that elects to disassociate
herself from the Rush process in order to counsel
women rushees. Freshmen not planning to rush
were still encouraged to participate in their Rho
Chi groups to meet other people, Love said.

Love said a lot of time was devoted to promot-
ing the colonization of Pi Phi last year. This year
each sorority will recruit equal numbers, while
last year almosthalf the 160 rushees got bids from
PiPhi. ,  I 
Rush will begin Jan. 8 with Open Houses,
Love said. Skit Night, Sisterhood Night, Prefer-
ence Night and Bid Day will follow that week.

Freshman Justine LaMont said W&L sorori-
ties seemed impressive.

“A couple of people that I already lcnew intro-
duced me to other people in their sororities,”
LaMont said after Thursday’s registration. “It
was really nice to talk to some upperclass people

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W&L, VMI,

NOVEMBER 5, 1992?

adopt

judicial process

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

In response to a series of ﬁghts between students and
cadets, student leaders from W&L and VMI created a
judicial process Tuesday to hear disputes between students
from the two schools.

Student Conduct Committee President Reggie Aggarwal
said details were ironed out for the cross-institutional pro-
cess, which will give Washington and Lee students and
Virginia Military Institute cadets a method other than re-
venge to mediate their differences.

Aggarwal said the process will almost certainly be used
to investigate a fight be-
tween students and cadets
at Pi Kappa Phi Sunday.

“Students and cadets
shouldn't take justice into
their own hands,”
Aggarwal said. “Now
tl1ere’sanoutletfor them.”

When an incident oc-
curs between students and
cadets, anyone involved
can report it to a member
of the SCC or the General
Committee, VMI’s judi-
cial body.

A team of investigators,
two from W&L and two
from VMI, will interview
participants and witnesses
and prepare a joint report. Aggarwal said the W&L investi-
gators will most likely be SCC members or SCC advocates.

The team’s report will be turned over to the SCC.and the
General Committee and each body will decide whether or
not to take action in the case against its school’s students.

Aggarwal said the new process should prevent the “circle
of revenge” which he says occurs each time there is an
incident involving cadets and students.

Aggarwal said Wednesday that a fight Sunday at Pi Phi
between four W&L students and five VMI cadets will be a
perfect -test of the new process.

None of the participants had filed a complaint as of
Wednesday, but Aggarwal said the SCC might begin an

J
iii

Aggarwal

Fighting
erupts again

i
1

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Tension between W&L students and
VMI cadets resurfaced in a late-night
Halloween scufﬂe at the Pi Kappa Phi
house. ;

Pi Phi Travis West said five cadets
went to the house about 3:30 a.m. on
Nov. 1 and asked to be admitted. Four
Pi Phi members refused, a ﬁght ensued
and West called security. 

When security officers arrived, they
called Lexington police. ;

After the police stopped the ﬁght
three cadets ﬂed, according to police
reports. Fourth-class cadet Stewart Holt
got tangled in a fence, and Officer
Angela Poole tackled him.

The reports say Holt then kicked
Poole several times to break her grasp
on him before he ran toward El Rodeo.
where another officer caught him. D

Holt was charged with assaulting an
officer and resisting arrest. -

VMI Commandant of Cadets Mike
Bissell said the fight resulted from the
first-year cadets’ first free weekend.

“When a rat [first-year student] goes”
out and gets into [trouble], it’s not
right, but it happens,” Bissell said. ,

Bissell also said he doesn't think
the three W&L-VMI ﬁghts since last
spring indicate a trend. ’

But W&L Dean of Students David
Howison said he believes the violence
dates back to a fight last spring at Beta
Theta Pi, after which police entered

EC clears up
confusion
about funding

ACLU controversy prompts
statement on partisan groups

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

. The Executive Committee hammered out a written state-
ment Monday clarifying their policy on funding student
organizations.

The policy resulted from the controversy over the EC’s
refusal to fund the Washington and Lee chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union. EC Secretary Bob Tompkins
wrote a letter to The Ring-tum Phi from the EC, explaining
3) the student body why a general written policy was needed.

“There should be an established process,” third-year law
EC Rep. Jay Sterne said. “It’s
important to have a written, al-
beit framework, policy of why
we don't fund certain groups.”

EC President Josh
MacFarland said reasons for not
Tunding partisan groups go be-
yond whether the student body
supports the groups.

“We’re trying to keep the
political views of the EC out of
the budgetary process,”
MacFarland said. “Being con-
Qistent in this policy is the im-
portant thing.”

The policy says the EC will
not, “directly fund [politically
and ideologically partisan organizations. The Executive
Committee will remain neutral on issues of national politics
and political ideology.”

‘0 In other EC business Monday, Tompkins wrote a pro-
posal for the Contact co-sponsorship fund.

In October, the EC set aside $7,500 for the fund, which
will provide money for sponsoring speakers of particular
interest to specific organizations such as the Minority Stu-
dents Association, Women’s Forum and Amnesty lntema-
tional. The proposal says the EC will designate groups
Qligible for the fund each fall during budget hearings.

The designated groups will bring speaker proposals to
Contact, where the group and Contact committee members
will discuss the proposal. An EC representative to Contact
will act as a moderator. If the two groups can’t reach an
agreement they will go before the EC, which will make a
decision.

. The EC will discuss and vote on Monday, Nov. 9 whether
to fund the Contact co-sponsorship fund.

Tompkins

“ [The dining hall] was packed,” Townley said.

for a change.”

Photo by Amy French, The Ring-tum Phi

Students cheer as Democrat Bill Clinton gains electoral votes.

Students celebrate,
mourn Clinton victory

By FAITH TRUMAN
and RICHARD WEAVER
of The Ring-tum Phi

When Bill Clinton passed the magi-
cal 270 electoral vote mark Tuesday
night, 20 assembled members of the
College Democrats cheered and
uncorked bottles of champagne.

“This election will begin a new era
in which the government will work for
the middle class, as opposed to the
privileged,” freshman Kathleen
McNamara said.

College Democrats President Cottie
Miles said that with the election over, it
is time for Americans to work together.

“The nation’s economic problems
face all of us, regardless of party,”
Miles said. “It is obvious that the people
have mandated that America’s prob-
lems must come first.”

Miles said the College Democrats
will attend Clinton’s inauguration in
January.

Meanwhile, a somber Republican
crowd watched election results at a
party hosted by senior Will Thomas.

The GOP fans expressed dismay as
state after state gave electoral votes to
Clinton.

“I didn’t realize the American pub-
lic was that stupid,” Thomas said.

‘‘I thought it would be a lot closer,”

senior Ben Gangloff said. 1

“The country’s going to hell in a
hand basket,” Thomas and Gangloff
agreed.

Professor of History Jefferson Davis
Futch echoed the sentiments.

“I feel decidedly ill,” Futch said. “I
hope I live until 1996.”

Last Friday’s mock election results
indicate most W&L students would
have liked George Bush to be elected.

Bush won the mock election with
54 percent of the 497 votes cast. Clinton
garnered 33 percent of the vote, while
Ross Perot received 11 percent.

Also, W&L students preferred Re-
publican Bob Goodlatte over Demo-
crat Steve Musselwhite in the Virginia
6th District congressional race, 71 per-
cent to 29 percent.

Away from the crowds surrounding
television election coverage, some stu-
dents had other views on the conduct
and outcome of the 1992 campaign.

“I’d like to give a big thank you to
the networks and MTV for their unbi-
ased coverage,” senior Richard Burke
said sarcastically.

“The country will mourn the loss
[of George Bush],” sophomore Ty
Tydings said.

Junior Joe Rarnseur had his own
way of coping with Bush’s loss.

“I’m going to ‘start four years of
heavy drinking.”

investigation.

Santa to bring

By KATIE YDEL
Phi Staff Writer

When the Student Activities Board received
more money to bring better known bands to
Lexington, they wasted no time in getting started.

SAB Entertainment Director Matt Hansen
confirmed that the Spin Doctors will play at the
pavilion on Dec. 4, the Friday of Christmas week-
end. The Spin Doctors is an up-and—coming band
gaining recognition through songs like “Little
Miss Can’t Be Wrong” and “Two Princes.”

Members of the SAB had their eyes set on the
Spin Doctors when the Executive Committee
gave them an $8,000 budget increase this fall.

“I’ve been working on this from the time we
made the request,” Hansen said.

Hansen said the SAB wanted to sponsor an

VMI barracks to arrest a cadet.

Spin Doctors

activity for Christmas weekend that would in-;
volve the whole school. In past years, Christmas
activities have only been held by individual fra-_
ternities or other student groups. l
Students are enthusiastic about the concert
being added to the traditional parties. 
“It will make it more of a school function than
a Greek one,”junior Monica Robinson said. “It'll
be really fun to be with everyone at the beginning
of the weekend and it’s a great band.” A
Other bands that SAB has lined up for the
coming months are Picture This, Everything and,
tentatively, Lost in the Supermarket. Hansen said
these bands, which will perform in the Generals
Headquarters, will offer a variety of music.
This Friday in the GHQ, SAB is sponsoring
Bingo as a fundraiser. Hansen said the board
might give some of the Bingo proceeds to charity
and use some for the SAB activities.

Welcome to Wild Kingdom

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

A crew for WVPT Harrisonburg, a public broadcasting station, scopes out the
Colonnade Tuesday for a documentary piece on Washington and Lee.The team
1 said the segment will air on the show “Skyline Illustrated" in about two weeks.

PAGE 2

 

 

Elli: ﬁling-mm iﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Officers and

gentlemen?

Like wives in the Bible, they seem to be most active just before
dawn. Fists clenched, shoulders back,. staggering with bloodshot eyes

V and smelling of vomit and stale beer, roving bands of them come to

invade late-night Lexington gatherings. Even the brightest cheer turns to

' a frown when someone conveys the all-too-familiar message: “Oh shit,

a bunch of Veemies are here.”
Who in the Washington and Lee community has not developed

. an aversion to VMI cadets?

The ﬁghts at Beta Theta Pi last spring, Phi Delta Theta in

1 October and Pi Kappa Phi on Halloween night are only the most
A publicized in a series of incidents between the schools in the last few
, years. The fact that three incidents of this magnitude have occurred lately

indicates that the situation has evolved intoa serious problem.

How has W&L reacted to the problem?

Within hours of the Oct. 8 fight at Phi Delt, Dean of Students
David L. Howison and SCC President Reggie Aggarwal realized things
had gotten out of hand and responded. Howison and Aggarwal moved to
open dialogue with their counterparts at VMI to seek solutions to the
problems between the schools. As a result, a judicial process has been
created to adjudicate incidents involving students and cadets. Also,
through the persistentefforts of Aggarwal, an informal committee made
up of cadets and students has been fonned to address differences between
the two schools.

W&L took the first step. But VMI’s response has not been
adequate.

VMI Commandant Mike Bissell’s reactions do not give us
much hope for a successful resolution. Consider his reactions to three
recent incidents.

Last spring, a group of uninvited cadets became rowdy at a Beta
party and were asked to leave. After starting what could only be called
a brawl, the cadets ﬂed to the safety of the VMI barracks. When
Lexington police and W&L security officers went to the barracks to
arrest one of the cadets involved in the fight hundreds of cadets yelled,
cursed and pelted the ofﬁcers with fruit and rgther objects from a second-
story walkway. A few days later, Bissell said no one would be punished
for the riot because none of the cadets involved could be identified.

This fall,afew hours afterone W&L student gotintoafightwitli
a cadet, he was awakened in the Phi Delt house by another cadet who said
the police were downstairs. Instead, he found five cadets who put him in
the hospital. Bissell said the cadets, who were not allowed in the
fraternity house regardless of purpose, went to Phi Delt “to talk” about
the earlier ﬁght.

Halloween night, a group of uninvited cadets became enraged
and started a ﬁght when they were not allowed into Pi Phi. After the
police showed up, one cadet capped off his night by kicking a female
Lexington police officer as she tried to arrest him. Bissell dismissed the
cadets’ behavior on Halloween night as inevitable for rats on their first
free weekend of the year.

Can this be the attitude of an experienced administrator at a
school that is rapidly losing respect among its peer institutions?

VMI cadets are not allowed at W&L fraternities unless they are
speciﬁcally invited. None of the cadets involved in any of these incidents
had such an invitation, but that seems lost on Bissell. - I I ‘

Bissell’s defense of his students goes beyond mere blind faith
and enters the realm of blatant stupidity. Bissell’s apparent “us against
them” mentality, which prevents him from punishing his beloved cadets,
only allows them to discard responsibility for their actions.

The solution to this problem lies on the other side of the wall.
The supposed mission of Bissell’s institute is to produce citizen soldiers.
A key component of any military education is discipline, in both civilian
and military life. .

Without both of these, VMI will fail in its mission. The cade
will make adequate ofﬁcers, but will they also be gentlemen?

We propose a plan to solve the problem.

First, remind the cadets that they are not allowed in the frater-
nity houses or in the dorms without pennission. This seems obvious but
apparently someone over there isn’t getting the message.

Second, Bissell and the General Committee must make greater
efforts to punish cadets for their misconduct off campus. As it stands
now, cadets seem to receive a greater punishment for tarnishing a button
than they do for assaulting a police ofﬁcer.

Third, give the cadets something to do. We completely under-
stand the cadets’ wanting to get out of that place when they get the
chance, but it is not the responsibility of W&L fraternities to provide
entertainment. Unfortunately, there is not much else to do in Lexington.
But that is a problem for VMI, not W&L.

_ On the W&L side, students must call security at the first sign of
a problem. And W&L students should refrain from provoking conﬂict;
there can be no “circle of revenge” if W&L doesn’t draw its half.

Now we look to VMI to implement a new approach.

Ellie iaing-tum lﬁlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phi1 Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity. ~

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

 

 

The Ring-rum Phl, October 5, 1992

rturrs in pop. ywe

 For. IN‘-‘PIKA or!

  

Write-in vote signals true feelings _

WASHINGTON — On election day, I cast a .
write-in vote for president. Here is why, and for

whom.

The primary point of voting is to inﬂuence the
outcome of competition for power. Another reason

for voting, even when (as
is often the case) the out-
come of an election is not
in doubt in one’s state or in

Regarding Clinton, the New Republic, even while
warmly endorsing him, noted that “in so many areas,
Clinton’s thoroughly political character makes him
at times almost indistinguishable from his oppo-
nent.” Clinton’s assumptions about revenue gains

the nation, is that we regis-
ter consent to the outcome
by participating in the pro-
cess. A third and not neg-

GEORGE WILL

Washington Post Writers Group

ligible reason for voting is
the catharsis of venting an
opinion.

One should not cast a write-in vote merely be-
cause neither party has put forward a paragon. Decid-
ing between disappointments — picking the least
inadequate —— is what unenthralled adults often do,
more or less cheerfully. But a write-in vote is perrnis-
sible, indeed obligatory, when no candidate repre-
sents even remotely what the nation needs.

In such a case, to cast other than a write-in vote is
to send a false signal of contentment about the con-
ventional choices. That is a truly wasted vote.

What signal should a conservative of my stripe
send? Not one that could have been sent by voting for

Perot, Bush or Clinton.

Perot removed himself from the ranks of the
plausible. The various installments of North Dallas
Nutty (phantom guard dogs attacking invisible ter-
rorists; how dare anyone ask him for veriﬁcation of
the doctored photo plot or the other plots?) suggests
that Perot is — this is the kindest construction —
someone deranged by overdoses of sycophancy.

Regarding Bush, what the New Republic says
merrily, conservatives must gloomily acknowledge:
“Bush has done to conservatism what no liberal
opponent could have done: he has destroyed it from
within.” He has treated it as a mere expedient for his
attainment of office. The nation always needs a .
healthy conservative movernentto resist governrnent’s
organic tendency toward aggrandizement and the
suffocation of society's energies. There cannot be
such a conservative movement until the Republican
Party is out from under Bush’s control.

actionary liberalism —— defense of factions strongly
organized and skillfully represented in Washington.

I-lis itch to use govem- '
mentto manipulate the pri-
vate sector, particularly in-
vestment, reﬂects an over-
estimation of the usefulness
of that blunt instrument, gov-
ernment; and an overestima-
tion of the skill and niceness

and self-financing
programs are loopy to
an almost
Darmanesquedegree.
And most of the
“change”hepromises
will point the nation
inthewrongdirection.
In fact, it is not real
change, it is just an-
other installment of re-

ists.

supply of entrepreneurial energy is devoted to “trans-
fer-seeking.” This energy is not devoted to generat-
ing wealth by producing goods and services. Rather,
it is devoted to manipulating government to capture
wealth that others produce.

Here is a harbinger: The Center for Responsive
Politics divides the top business contributors to the 5
presidential candidates into eight categories. Bush
has received more than Clinton from seven catego-
ries. But Clinton has decisively beaten Bush with the
heaviest contributing category: lawyers and lobby-

.The nation needs what no contemporary Demo-
crat can be, someone controlled by this core convic-
tion: The point of an enterprise society — in a sense,
the American premise — is that prodigies of produc-
tivity can result from millions ofuriheroic actions by
individuals going. about their business without gov-

ernment guidance, super- .

vision, subsidy or regula-
tion. The candidate who

One should not cast a write-
in vote merely because nei-
ther party has put forward a
paragon. Deciding between

received my cathartic vote
understands this.

My candidate kept his
dignity in a setting inimi-
cal to dignity —— the Bush

of the class attracted to ser- . . . . adrriinistration. He has been
vice in government; and an disappointments '_ Picking conspicuous and often dis-
underestimation of the ben- the least inadequate .— is dained there because of his
eﬁts that would ﬂow from ebullient interest in ideas,
an American societyless su— what unenthraued adults in the absence of which
pervised by that class wield- often d0, more 0!‘ less cheer- politicsis mere appetiteand

ing that instrument.

the worst aspect

economy.”

A large and growing portion of America’s ﬁnite

Furthermore, harnessed
to his party’s congressional
faction, and propelled by its
pent-up demand for activ-
ism, Clinton will worsen

fully. But a write-in vote is
permissible, indeed obliga-
tory, when no candidate rep-
resents even remotely what

cynicism. In his passion for
entrepreneurial capitalism
and empowerment of the
poor, he strikes the balance
St. Benedict urged 15 cen-
turies ago: “So temper all
things that the strong may

of the nation needs.
America’s increasingly de- .
graded civic culture. He will .
increase the role of the parasite class in governance. draw back in alarm.”
I refer to those, principally Washington lawyers and
lobbyists and those who hire them, who prosper in
what author Jonathan Rauch calls “the parasite

still have something to long
after, and the weak may not

My vote went to Jack Kemp.
This is not an endorsement of him for 1996.
However, it is a message to the new Clinton admin-

istration. My patience with it is wearing thin.

©1992, Washington For! Writers Group

5

9

The EC explains the ACLU decision ~

MY VIEW

’ From
the Executive Committee

The Executive Committee stands
by its policy to deny direct funding to
politically and ideologically partisan
groups. We would like to make our
position and its underlying reasons clear
to the entire student body.

Recently, Andrew Schneider, presi-
dent of the W&L chapter of the Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union, petitioned
the EC for funding. That request was
denied because a majority of the EC
determined that the ACLU, while not
supporting one political party or en-
dorsing political candidates, does es-
pouse a particular interpretation of the
Bill of Rights and the Constitution.
The interpretation of these documents

has been at the root of political debates

since the birth of our nation. Further,
while the ACLU does not seek to di-
rectly inﬂuence the election of public
officials, it does seek to inject its views
into the American political process
through the courts.

Where the issue of partisanship has
been raised in the past the EC has
consistently voted not to fund partisan
groups. In 1989, the Spectator was
denied funding by the Executive Com-
mittee. Despite assertions by the
Spectator’s organizer Paul Lagarde that
the magazine would not engage in elec-
tioneering, the EC found that it did
support a particular political ideology.

The W&L chapter of the ACLU
further claims that it would not pro-

mote the agenda of its national parent
group. The budget request states that
the chapter only seeks to address issues
of local interest and wants to conduct
“speak-outs” and debates on campus.
Two considerations prevent the ACLU
from prevailing on this point. First,
while these activities may not directly
promote the political ideas of the
ACLU, they would be conducted un-
der the guise of the ACLU, a national
group with a definite political orienta-
tion. Second, these types of events are
already sponsored by other groups on
campus. The Ring-tum Phi certainly
serves as a forum for debate, as do the
Contact Committee and the newly
formed Graharn-Lee-Washington So-
ciety. The Executive Committee funds
all of these organizations and they are
all politcally neutral in their purpose.

It is this Committee's strong belief
that its policy not to fund politically
oriented groups is well-founded. The
ﬁrst reason is grounded in the EC’s
recent history of denying funding to
other partisan organizations. Chang-
ing our policy at this point would be
inconsistent. Second, and more impor-
tantly, the EC wishes to remain neutral
on issues of national politics and politi-
cal ideology.

The EC’s purpose is to uphold the
Honor System and to promote student
life on this campus. The political orien-
tation of individual EC members should
not be an issue in the EC’s decision
making or in the student's decisions to
elect particular members. The EC
should be composed of persons with a
concern for issues of immediate im-
portance to this campus, in particular

the fair and equitable administration of
our Honor System.

The contentionthatthe EC has failed
to promote lively debate and free ex-
pression on this campus is without
merit. The EC has chosen to fulﬁll this
mission by funding several organiza-
tions at W&L which facilitate discus-
sion in specific issues and in varying
formats. Out-

where the EC holds appointment power
for these committees it has sought to
provide balance in their membership.
In interviewing applicants for this
year’s Contact Committee the EC
sought persons who desired a more

politicallybalanced committee. Indeed, i

last spring Andrew Schneider was ap-
pointed to serve on Contact by the
unanimous vote

lets for politi- of the EC.
cal discourse Thepolitical orientation We °°“°ed<=
abound on this . . . EC thatourearlierde-
c,,,,,p,,S_ ofindrvrdual members mien ,0 fund
The Igublié should not be an issue in :?«mn]e_styImerrtia-
Cal.l0l’lS oar - - 0 iona 1S suspec in
funds The the.EC’s decision making “gm of ms
Ring-tum Phi or in the student’s decr- policy. However,
and the Politi- ' ‘ concerns about
cal Review. sions to elect particular we political W
The Women’s members. entation of theor-

Forum pur-
poses to facilitate discussion of issues
of concern to women, as the Minority
Students Association does for issues
affecting minorities.

The Student Bar Association pro-
motes discussion of legal issues and
issues of general interest to law stu-
dents. (It should be noted that the SBA
has been given great deference be-
cause it receives only a portion of its
funding from the EC.) Two catch-all
groups seek to involve students in a
broad range of topics, the Contact Com-
mittee, with nationally known speak-
ers, and the newly created Graham-
Lee-Washington Society, with debates
and discussions by members of our
own community.

Each of the committees named
above is neutral in its purpose, and

ganization were
not apparent to the committee at the
time the budget was being made. Nor
were the activities Amnesty proposed
directed at furthering their national po-
litical views. Because the allocation to
Amnesty has already been made and
that group has been operating with
reliance on those funds, the EC will not
alter their allotment. In future years
this committee may wish to do so.
By this policy the EC does not raise
objection to the existence of the Spec-
tator, the ACLU, or any other politi-
cally engaged group on this campus.
We merely seek to administer the funds
of the student body in as fair a manner
as possible while at the same time
providing the entire community of
W &L with the opportunity to engage
in the free and open exchange of ideas.

I

4

 

' Moke Wolfe, ’94, Baltimore, Md. —

9

5

V

I

 

The Rlng-tum Phi, October 5, 1992

C

Skins disease strikes many in Virginia

‘Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

If there's one thing I’ve learned
since I’ve been in Lexington, it’s that
Virginians take Redskins football much
too seriously. I mean, we’re talking

‘about a football team here, not some-
thing that’s worth making a big fuss
over. The only team that I know of that
is worth making a fuss over is the
Swedish Bikini Team, but Spos di-
gresses.

Last year's Super Bowl Champion

edskins are held in pretty high regard
around these pans. Redskins games
tend to take precedence over church
and other religious functions, family
outings and other activities, and even,
dare I say, sex. If Cindy Crawford
were to be doing nude aerobics in front
of the television set during a Redskins
game, I know of some die-hard fans
that would actually crane their necks
around her in an attempt to watch Mark
Rypien and friends run around in tight
pants. Go ﬁgure. ‘

God help you if you try to interrupt

e telecast while these fans are en-
gaged in their weekly religious fervor.
Some weeks ago, Spos attempted to
change the channel during a Skins
game, so that he might watch
“Married...With Children.” It seemed

innocent enough. Spos, like several
million other males around the nation,
feels that watching Christina Apple gate
in spandex is a lot more fun than watch-
ing two teams of men having an orgy in
full view of 60,000 onlookers. My
three friends, who had up until that
moment been completely enthralled
by the aforementioned display of sexual
deviance immediately stared up at me
from the couch as if I had just blown up
all five girl

ﬂiction: .

E] Naked pictures of Mark Rypien
and/or Art Monk under the pillow.

D Feeling theneed to paint one’s
face in the Redskins team colors.

C1 Suicidal tendencies after a
Redskins loss.

The sad thing is that Redskins fans
feel that having the disease is socially
acceptable. Fans understand when a
Redskins loss on Monday night causes

alarming peaks

schools with

You think that Ron and

in the local sui-

plastic explo- cide rates. You
sives. Nan m ' ' ’ _ think that Ron
Sensingthat . . Cy aklng political d'e' and Nancymak-
he had of- cisions based on astrology ing political de-
f d d, S ' ‘) " b d
r§.'‘m°errar‘éi’§ '5 bad-, H0“ ab°,“‘ Gm" §LS.i?.i‘§gy‘Ei°ba‘3’3
began to ex- nor Wilder making major HowaboutGov-
1' hi lf. - - W'ld
P“}.’;vh‘;‘§,°You budget decisions based on ﬁfgffng nﬁajjﬁ
wantedtowatch the Score of the previous budgetdecisions

that shot of
Mark Rypien

night’s football game?

based on the
score of the pre-

pickinghisnose
on the sidelines?”
Spos was immediately thrown to
the floor and pummeled with couch
pillows, as one Redskins fan poured a
pitcher of cheap beer on his head.
Spos attributes this abnormal be-
havior to what is known as the Skins
disease. Learn to recognize the fol-
lowing symptoms of this dreaded af-

vious night’s
football game? This is happening.
Spos would not kid you in matters of
such importance.

Thus, Spos cannot express how de-
lighted he was when his own New
York Giants came to R.F.K. to play the
Redskins last Sunday. The Giants, a
mediocre team this year with a record
of three wins, four losses going into

Sunday’s game, were obviously the
underdogs in comparison to the awe-
some might of the Redskins. Needless
to say, the Big Blue Wrecking Crew
pulled off a surprise upsetvictory, send-
ing prissy little Mark Rypien to the
locker room in tears and boosting the
local suicide rate 600 percent. Spos
was understandably psyched after call-
ing his friends to remind them that they
owed several cases of brew, a few
hundred dollars in cash and a promise
to clean the Sposmeister’s bedroom on
a weekly basis for the rest of the school
year. Spos can’t say that he won’t let it
go to his head. [0ﬂ?cial Subliminal
Message——The Giants rule... You dig
the Giants big time.]

You may recall that some weeks
ago, Spos announced a survey to deter-
mine who the sexiest person on televi-
sion is. Although the carnpuswide re-
sponse can only be described as pitiful
in terms of size, the votes have been
tallied and the masses have spoken.

The sexiest person on television
is: Sean 0’ Rourke.

For those who don’t know Sean, he
is Cable Nine’s coolest reporter. He
appears on Cable Nine more often than
Bill Cosby appears on network TV.
Congratulations, Sean!

On that note, Spos will sign off,
reminding you to learn from my friends’
mistakes. Neverbet against the Giants.

Phi subscription policy is ‘silly and misguided’

To the Editor:

Your new policy on circulation is both silly and

misguided.

The proper function of a student newspaper is to
inform the university community about what is hap-
pening on campus. That helps create community and
calls attention to aspects of the community that need

attention.

You can perform that function well only if the
paper circulates to the widest possible audience. Your
new policy will make it more difficult for faculty to
see the paper. The quarter is no big deal, though I

know of few faculty members who will pay it. The big
deal is that most of us will not trek to GHQ to pick up
a copy. The net effect is that few faculty will read your

paper.

Faculty read the newspaper as part of our profes-
sional obligation, not because of the paper’s intrinsic
intellectual merit. That professional obligation has
some significance, of course, but it is marginal enough
that we are not going to make the special effort to
obtain the paper.The silliness arises in your reasoning
about the University’s subsidy. Call it “donation” or
“subscription,” it is still a subsidy, and subsidies can be

cutoff. If you think that changing the name of the
subsidy will “free the paper from potential pres-
sure” from the EC, you should seek help from a

junior high counselor to overcome your naiveté.

S66 one.

Sincerely,
Louis W. Hodges
Director, Society & Professions, Prof. of Bible

The administration is absolutely right in refus-
ing further subsidy in the form of a faculty “sub-
scription.” They recognize a shell game when they

W&L teams need cheerleaders for support

0 the Editor:

I am very thankful that we are alive
and well with all of the blessings and
liberties we can enjoy here inthis coun-
try, but while you and all of yourrela-'
tives are seated.to,a dinner of turkey
and dressing ‘and '<’:ranbet‘ry' sauce and

pumpkin pie, I will be with ‘my family “
d

ta football game. And maybe there’s
something a little off in that — but this
is THE game of the season for the two
biggest (SEC) rivals in my state! My
grandparents, parents, aunt, uncle,
cousin, brother and I will all go as a
family thing to the big game — the
Auburn versus Alabama game.
Why am I telling you this? I’m
admitting, before I get to the W&L

“related thrust of this, that the culture in
which I’ve grown up is very football
oriented. I know it is. And I like it.
Going to visit my grandparents many

gweeltendsl of elementary school days -

and on through junior and high school
meant going to Saturday’s football
6. ,..- .. .. . . . 

One thing that interested me as a
little girl was not only learning about
the plays and the calls on the field, but
also cheering for my team along with
the cheerleaders, and watching the half-
time show of the band and dance team.
Maybe that’s what encouraged me to
help sponsor sixtli-grade cheerleaders

. when I was in ninth grade, and then to

be on the high school dance and drill

team when I was a junior and senior in
high school. Not only was it a lot of fun,
but also it was my way of showing the
team that I was enthusiastic about their
game and that I‘supp0_t‘ted‘them. I_ now

i thatwhile tli’e’playet§ are oiif“ __et;e',
’ ‘tliey”d lilte"s'o'rii‘e ‘e_iieollfa‘gem’ei't’_t fr'_(_ir‘r‘ij
“ their frietrds" and”fan*s‘and that“it]<‘l‘be

great to have people show their support
and enthusiasm.

Well, my main questions to you, the
W&L student, are: Don't you think
that W&L Generals football (and who
knows what other sports teams) would
like to see enthusiasm from the crowds,
perhaps as could be encouraged by
cheerleaders? And as long as we attend
the game, shouldn’t we actively show

the players our support? Well, I think
so.

I’m not one to try and make waves

in calm seas —- lots of times I’d say in

-a conservative 'traditionalist’s’ way —

'r‘n'u‘c“h more ‘we could'b'e'doing — why
not better share our enthusiasm and
encouragement with the team?

I’m not trying to cause an earth-
shaking revolution, but maybe y'all
will show a little more excitement in
the W&L sports events, that you attend.
And, what do you think about cheer-
leaders at W&L?

Caroline Amason, ’95

, Honor System not always trusted Survey response

We the Editor:

I would like to describe an incident that occurred
to me at the SAB concert in the Pit on Wednesday,
Oct. 21. As I approached the entrance I came upon a
desk with two workers. Their job was to stamp
people’s hands with a certain color depending on
their age. The following is my recollection of the
dialogue between one of the workers and myself:

Worker: Hello. Are you over 21?
Me: Yes.

Worker: Can I see some I.D.?
Me: Are you a W&L student?
Worker: Yes.

Me: Then why are you demanding to see my I.D.?
Have you heard of the Honor System? Is my word

not enough?

Worker: Sorry man. We were told we had to do it.
The worker never satisfactorily answered my ques-
tion as to who told him he “had to do it,” but he was

told by either the SAB or The Pit Administrators.
Regardless of who instructed him, demanding.identi-
fication at a school-sponsored event seems to blatantly
disrespect the Honor Code.

In my experience as a student here for over two
years I have never had my word so egregiously disre-
garded — in fact, I cannot remember a single time
when giving my word has not been sufficient to satisfy

anyone.

I think that it is unfortunate that at W&L a student’s
word of honor is not trusted 100 percent of the time -—
especially here on campus. I hope future campus
policies respect the Honor System enough so as to
believe in it. A student’s word can (and should be)

taken as the truth.

Sincerely ,
James F. Kull ’93

To the Editor:

All right all you honorable W&L students, espe-
cially you men.... For you who think a woman faced
with being raped should sit back and enjoy it, I have
a question.

Do you understand what rape really is? It is
torture, a torture far worse than cigarette burning or
beating. It is an invasion of your being. It is the theft

of a part of your soul. It is. physical pain and

emotional pain. I

You tell me, how is one supposed to “relax and
enjoy" it? Would you, could you sit back and relax
if someone thrust a piece of hot pig iron‘down your
throat until you were choking?

Kathryn Noel Barbour ’93

Junior Executive Committee Rep.

0 \

Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

  

— “Bush because he probably had
the guts to inhale.”
0

..¢

Phaedra Cianciulli, ’96, Mt.
Arlington, NJ. — “Clinton
because of the way he deals with
young people means he has an eye to

the future.”

TALKBACK

 

 

Christina Wheeler, ’94, Austin, Texas and Liz Randol, ’93, Shaker

Heights, Ohio

—— “Sharon Stone because she was great in Basic Instinct.”

53;“ f‘lt?sj1ot'b'rokeii,"don’iﬁx it.f’dBug,irt_ j
Tjusfsee that there is so ,

 

Fencing

Club Fencing will start again
winter term. Interested persons
(male or female) should call either
Coach Lyles at 463-8683 or Chris
Keller at 463-4884.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates from 10 p.m.-2 a.m. on
Friday and Saturday nights. We’re
also looking for volunteers to help
drive. If interested call Melissa or
Jess at 464-4017.

Lecture

Pam Fesler, senior reporter for
Congressional Quarterly, will give
a talk “The Results of the 1992
Elections: An Early Appraisal” at4
p.m. on Monday, Nov. 16 in room
327 of the Commerce School.

WLUR  

WLUR will present an album
featureeveryThursday from5-5:45
p.m. Listen to hear new albums
from the hottest rock artists. Signs
will be posted each week as to what
band is being spotlighted.

FOC

There is a mandatory Freshman
Orientation Committee meeting for
new and returning members at 6: 15
p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center onThursday, Nov. 12. Ques-

ti0n.S.9r-prablsrnsrshoulribedirectedr-  -  . . , .
.. .. .UI.UVQI$llXu.5:PQ11¢.X.0J1nhal'~aS5mem ..:
.next Wednesday, <Novi.»..l l._at 7 p.m.
in Lee Chapel. The discussion is

.1 Carlin Jones at 464-3758.. :-  v.»

I

CD&P

The Mayo Clinic will hold open
interviews on Thursday, Nov. 12.
Anyone interested in Summer Re-
search positions in connection with
their Ph.D. programs may speak
with Dr. Rick McGee, Associate
Director for Student Affairs in room
114 of the University Center from
9 a.m.-3 p.m. Sign up for an inter-
view time in the CD&P Office.

Law School

The Blue Ridge Pre-law Forum
will be held on Monday, Nov. 9 in
rooms 109, 113, and 114 of the
University Center. We will have
representatives from 37 law schools
available to share information about
their programs and speak with in-
terested students. If you are think-
ing about law school, come with
your comments, questions and con-
cems. Literature from law schools
not able to attend will be available.

(. 1. 1-H‘:  t "

~ PAGE 3

Bookstore

The Bookstore is taking orders
for The Undergraduate Almanac
by Jon Sbar, W&L ’9l, for prepaid
$9.95 plus tax. The books are ex-
pected by mid-November. The
Bookstore hopes to arrange a sign-
ing after the books arrive.

BLSA

The Black Law Students’ Asso-
ciation wouldlike to invite the W&L,
Lexington and Buena Vista com-
munities to hear Judge Shackleford
speak on Tuesday, Nov. 10 at6p.m.
in Classroom C of Lewis Hall. Re-
ception to follow. All are welcome
to attend.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Fonim has changed
its meeting time to 6:30 p.m. on
Sundays. Meetings will continue to
be held in the Arlington Women’s
Center in the basement of the Uni-
versity Center. This Sunday, Nov.
8, Art Professor Pam Simpson will
lead a discussion entitled “Is Femi-
nism a Dirty Word?” Everyone is
welcome.

College Dems

There will be a meeting of the
College Democrats this Sunday,
Nov. 8 at 7 p.m. in the University
Center Game Room. For more in-
formation call 463-8984.

SCC

, 'I',lierewill,be a discussion onthe V

sponsored by the Student Conduct
Committee, and all are encouraged
to attend.

Get it Out

General Notes should be sub-
mitted to The Ring-tum Phi office,
room 208 in the University Center.
The deadline for General Notes is
Tuesday at noon.

Opinion
Letters to the Editor and My
Views should be submitted to The
Ring-tum Phi office, room 208 in
the University Center. The deadline
for submissions is Tuesday at noon.

I 4

General Notes are compiled by Matt
Haar

‘ ho do you think would make the best president?

Josh Levinson, ’93, Ruxton, Md. —

— “Perot because he has the biggest
ears and can best hear the country‘s
complaints.”



Eve McDonald, ’94, Newport, Ark.
—- “Clinton so we can get a new
governor.”

  
   

_ _....----_._..a i,

l
t

 

 

;PAGE4

- ' n ' o '. In ‘. ' p ' n": '1"n"4 “r."I.‘:_"';."z.’a.'r_"r.‘a. ‘L ‘I. 2

.

'- .3. ‘I "-. ’-v. '-.'<. I-. 'r. '.-_ ‘I. "o. ’-, ‘v, ':,'u_"r_‘r. 5.9.9. 1.1. ‘I. W.‘I.9. ’-1.". '*. "I. 5.1. 9.5.5. ". 't.“.“.V.'I'¢'*.".‘I.'l. ‘I.'1.V.'V.V.-‘Vt. 'L‘I;‘(?.'V. W21 '1‘. ‘3..’(.'f..fI‘.‘l»‘Y.‘ IL‘? I T.-.7 71.1.? ‘I. 1‘ 1 1 if V I C. I 3 A‘ u‘ I -‘A I _r pr A‘ _|‘ _u' 33:‘ ,-gr"! .u'_~‘.~'_Ir,~',t',-'.-' 9,1‘.-‘_.\' ,\‘

 

FEATURES

 

ince Washington

and Lee’s coedu-

cation in 1985,

theWomen’sFo-
rum has led women’s
movements on campus,
allowing its members’
opinions to be discussed
in the open.

“The campus allows
students to manage the
programs [on campus].
If students don't ask
[about a specific prob-
lem],wedon’ttalk about
it,” Associate Dean of
Students Anne Schroer-
Lamont said.

EVOLUTION

 

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

colonizations of Delta
Gamma or Pi Beta Phi.

“This campus obvi-
ously revolves around
the Greek movement. I
was very supportive of
the sorority movement,”
Schroer-Lamont said.
“Some [women] were
terribly disappointed
andfelttheirfeetweren’t
on the ground [at W&L]
yet. Many didn’t like
the idea of the divisive-
ness. Today it is still a
toss-up to whether there
is a division [as a result
of sororitiesl.”

The Women’s Forum
met for the first time in
January 1986.

“The first class of women were strong and self-
sufficient. It wasn’t until November 1985 that they
came to me and said they would like to form a women’s
organization,” Schroer-Lamont said.

“The Women’s Forum was not a group of bra-
burning liberals. They worked to get a female doctor in
the infirmary [Dr. Jan Horton], established women’s
varsity teams and woman coaches, planned the Women’s
Center with the Board of Trustees, and eventually
supported the arrival of sororities at Washington and
Lee,” Schroer-Lamont said.

During the second year of coeduca-
tion, male students pressured the
group to change its name to the
gender neutral Trident. A

Trident soon took the place
of the yet-to—be-formed sorori-
ties and became a social group
for women.

They planned a winter for- .
mal, known as the Winter
Slush, and the Confetti’s party
in the spring.

The first class of women contin-
ued to work hard in other areas. They ’ .
especially pushed for a place where women
could casually gather.

The Arlington Women’s Center ﬁnally opened in
1988 during a week of events celebrating its establish-
ment.

Located in the basement of the University Center,
the center consists of a lounge and a study room.

“The second and third classes of women weren’t as
pioneering [as the first class] but rather compliant to
what the remaining all-male classes told them,” Schroer-
Larnont said.

When there were four classes of women at W&L,
three sororities were established on campus: Chi Omega,
Kappa Kappa Gamma, and Kappa Alpha Theta.

In 1989, the Panhellenic Council took control of
regulating sororities.

The Women’s Forum was not involved with the

   
  
 
  
  
   

Group focuses on women’s issues

  
 
  
      

I
 Achtung

Opinions toward so-
rorities at W&L are gen-
erally favorable.

“I think it’s good to have sororities,” junior J.B.
Meek said. It’s as positive an experience as fraternities
are to guys. Women have earned the right and deserve
the same privileges.”

But with the arrival of sororities, the force behind
Trident disappeared and the group ﬁzzled.

Then last year a group of approximately 14 women
felt the need for a network that would be concerned with
women’s issues on campus.

Schroer-Lamont told senior Shannon Comer about
the original Women’s Forum.

Schroer-Lamont thought reestablishing the forum
would be appropriate.
“Any campus where there is a minority of
women, a minority group is needed,” sopho-
more Jen Hickes said.

Today the Women’s Fo-

rum is a support and discus-
sion group with very diverse
opinions among members.
_ On average, 40 people meet
,/ every Sunday night.
“We deal with a variety of topics from eating
disorders and sexual assault videos to abortion
debates to the mandatory one-third women quota set
by the Board of Trustees,” said Comer, who is now the
group’s president.

“The opportunity to discuss issues and be supportive
with other women on campus is very rewarding,” Comer
said.

“The small percentage of women [on campus] lets
you actually have a say in doing something on campus,”
Hickes said.

The Women’s Forum meetings are open to any
student, male or female.

“It’s important that people know it’s not male bash-
ing in any way, shape or form. We have a lot more
important things to discuss,” Hickes said.

Women’s Forum meets Sundays at 7 p.m. in the
Women’s Center.

This is the second story in a two—part series on W&L
women.

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Staff Writer

ne of Washington and Lee’s claims to fame is not
a successful graduate, but rather the once prized
possession of class of 1909 graduate Christo-
pher Chenery.

Chenery was the owner of the1973 Triple
Crown winner Secretariat. “Triple Crown
winners are unusual and rare. It’s unusual
W&L would have such a close connec-
tion to the winner,” Vice President of
UniversityRelations Farris Hotchkiss
said.

According to the alumni maga-
zine, Secretariat was won by the toss
of acoin as the result of an agreement
between Chenery and friend Ogden
Phipps.

Secretariat went on to be called
“The Horse of the Century” by CBS,
the 1972 Horse of the Year, the 1973
Triple Crown winner, and featured on the
covers of Time, Newsweek, National Ob-
semer, and Stw_r1§.Il_lus1rated.

In September 1973, Secretariat won the $250,000
Marlboro Cup, beating stablemate and 1972 Kentucky
Derby winner Riva Ridge.

In all of the races, Secretariat and the jockey could be
seen wearing blue and white, the colors of Chenery’s alma
mater, W&L.

A graduate with a degree in civil engi-
neering and a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Chenery accumulated a sizeable fortune
organizing a utilities holding company.

In 1936, he bought The Meadows in
Doswell, Va., and made plans to convert it
into a thoroughbred breeding farm. By this
time, Chenery had become the chairman of
Southem Natural Gas Company.

Despite his success with utilities,
Chenery was known for the quality of his
broodmares.

Chenery produced 41 stakes winners at
The Meadows.

His filly, Cicada, won the Kentucky
Oaks and retired with $783,674 in cam-
ings, the greatest sum by a filly in the early
1970s.

Chenery owned Iberia, who foaled Riva
Ridge, and Imperatrice, who foaled
Somethingroyal, the mother of Secretariat.

Chenery was also responsible for the
success of the 1959 University Bicenten-
nial.

OOOCampus Reps Wanted0%
HEATWAVE VACATIONS
SPRING BREAK 1993
The best rates & the biggest
commissions. For more Information,

Call 800-395-WAVE

cludiotronics

AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
TOSHIBA MARANTZ
KEF CWD
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA
° SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE sERvIcE CENTER

‘ WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
' MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

Goto
problem?

A s it:
@Ir.\lil/I

Send questions to Dr.
Worth’s office or to
Carol Caikins in the
University Center. You
do not need to sign
your name.

 

 

sr
FUNDRAISER
ON CAMPUS!

Your student organization can earn
up to $1,500 in just one week
sponsoring a marketing program
for a Fortune 500 Company.

NO SALES

   

NO INVESTMENT
BUILD TEAM WORK
HAVE FUN!

Call T
(800) 592-2 21

Call : 463-7000

Offer expires I2-I8-92

©t989PizzaHut.|nc.

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard redlt Cards?

 

BUY ONE PIZZA

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

 

Call Us
and Keep
Cramming.

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings,
delivered hot and fast to your door.

I-Hut.

Umibd dolvery area

Pizza Hut Delivery. . . Great taste delivered!
© 1989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

iI"""""""""""""""""I

Student Special  

2 pizzas for the price of 1

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS OR DISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY

WITH COLLEGE ID

Our drivers carry no more than $20. 1/20 cent cash rederrption vaiu

 

  
   
  
  
 
 

The Ring-tum Phl, November 5, 1992

O

|nthewinner’s circle.

Legendary Secretariat owned by W&L alumnus

before Secretariat won the Belmont Stakes and the Triple
Crown. Chenery served 23 years on W&L’s Board of
Trustees and as the co-chair of the university’s 1958-80
development program to a construct a new science building

and renovate Reid Hall.

In 1985, he was inducted posthumously into the Virginia

Sports Hall of Fame.

9

!

I
“Chenery was a very generous donor to the

said

school during his alumni years,” Hotchkiss
' I

‘Chenery had formed a private hold-
ing companyand issued stock within
his family.

In 1973, Chenery’s daughter,
Penny, syndicated Secretariat to

I

pay the high taxes on her late '

father’s estate. Thirty-two inva-
tors paid $190,000 a share, a total
of $6,086,000.

When he died, he left part of the

estate to W&L, which, in part, were
proceeds from Secretariat’s stud fees.
Secretariat’s portrait and silks can
now be seen hanging in Doremus Gym,

and a portrait of Chenery hangs in the Uni-
versity Library. Also, one of Secretariat’s
horseshoes and a certificate of authenticity and thanks
from Chenery is on display in the Alumni House.
“To have one of the truly great horses in the family, one
who wore W&L colors, that is unusual,” Hotchkiss said. “I
bet it hasn’t happened many times before.” .

Secretariat crosses the finish line In the 1973 Belmont Stakes
ChenerydiedJan.3, l973,eightmonths making Triple Cproiyn history. p

*'~ 3' I-I5s"."'.‘ .\-

 
    

% The holidays are almost here!

Let us Custom Design Invitations, Cards or Stationery.
ALSO Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.



:-
vn
u—-n

PHONE: 463 - 1712 -

FAX #: 463 - 6918
125 W. NELSON ST. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

hm

could own
ihhspoce.
COII463-8581.

W 8: L UNIVERSITY LENFEST SERIES PRESENTS +
I U
N
0
V I
6
I - I
I
, 8
I in
| P
' M
I
I
I I
 Tickets available NOW!

 
    
  
 
 

r I I I I Z X X‘ X I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I Z I X
I STUDENT SERVICES. BOX 17 924. PLANTATION. FL 33318 :
Now you can have two of the most recognized and I V I E

accepted credit cards in the worId...Vlsa® and MasterCard@ I . ‘warn “SAG/MASTERCARD? Cred" I
"Ed" Card-*1--"I" YOU’ Nam‘?-" EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed Ilnd S 5 which Is 100% refundable If not I
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! ' approved hnmediately '
VlSA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you I |

deserve and need for— ID—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT | NAME '

STORES—TUITION—ENTERTAI NM ENT-— ' .

EMERGENCY (‘ASH—TiCKETS——RESTAURANTS— ADDRESS '
H(TI‘ELS—MOTELS——GAS—CAR RI-3NTALS— ' I
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! I CITY STATE _ ZIP I

I I

at
6“ “nﬂti. . ' PHONE I S.S. I
_s,¢gcI;I\§ No credit: _ I SIGNATURE I Q

“5ul'I:'"_¢o 3“ "0 5eC|"‘ItY IIGDOSIU I NOTE Masnacam Is a Iegisima tradennrk d’ Mxtcﬁhrd Intemattoml. Inc. I

got 0,5, I Visa Is a registered tnderrnrk ofVISA USA. inc and VISA Imcmauonai I

I Approval absolutely guaranteed so ' gem“, A,,,c.,m,,, 10°” ouAnAN1_EEm '

I ° .

 

ha

-5
.

‘I

 

F

.4‘

 

The Ring-tum Phl, November 5, 1992

t

Hypnotist entrances students

‘.A|iens, body builders arrive soon

 

PAGE 5

FEATURES

I DeLuca

By JEANNE BIuGGs
Phi Contributing Writer

rdinarily, being put to sleep
at aperforrnance is not a good
sign. But when Tom DeLuca,
hypnotist and psychic, puts
you to sleep, you know you are in for an
exciting and humorous evening.

“We at the SAB heard of his popu-
larity at area colleges,” Student Activi-
ties Board Publicity Director Lewis
Perkins said. “We thought that W&L
students would be receptive.”

DeLuca draws on the imagination
of the audience and the power of sug-
gestion to create an evening of discov-
ery and fun in which he hypnotizes
members of the audience and brings
them on to the stage to perform various
feats.

In past performances these feats
have included speaking like aliens from
other planets and posing in body build-
ing competitions.

“Tom taps into people’s imagina-
tions,” said Barbara Meyer, a spokes-
woman for Admire Presentations,
DeLuca’s agency. “The people who
have good imaginations are the most
fun people.”

DeLuca is very protective of his
audience and is careful not to embar-
rass or humiliate them, Meyers said.

“The person participating wakes up '

relaxed, as though they had eight hours
of sleep,” she said. “Tom uses sugges-
tion to tap into the deeper parts of the
mind.”

DeLuca holds a master’s degree in
psychology, drawing on the discipline
to explore the human mind through
imagination and creativity.

DeLuca began touring college carn-
puses 10 years ago, and has since been
named College Entertainer of the Year
by the National Association for Carn-
pus Activities.

DeLuca also performs for corporate
groups such as the California Bar As-
sociation, and he has appeared on na-
tional television programs including
“CBS Nightwatch” and “Live with
Regis and Kathie Lee.”

Meyer said DeLuca performs at the
University of Virginia every year, and
usually draws a crowd of 8,000 to
10,000 people.

“Students at UVa. often scalp tick-
ets to see Tom perform,” Meyer stated.

DeLuca will perform at the Lenfest
Center on Saturday, Nov. 14 at 7:30
p.m.

‘Dance ensemble heats up Lenfest

. From Lenfest Press Release

he Lenfest Series will present
the choreography of Martha

Graham performed by the

Martha Graham School En-

semble under the direction of former

‘principal dancer Yuriko in the Keller
Theatre.

Graham’s inﬂuence on dance was
enormous, not in her technique but in
the way she used personal expression
in her dancing.

She is recognized today as the great-

Oest American choreographer.

Throughout her career, Graham’s
fundamental tenet was that dance
should reach audiences through a vis-
ceral response rather than an objective
image that registered upon the intel-

lect.

The program
includes three
full- length Gra-
ham classics;
“Acts of Light,”
“Diversion of An-
gels” and “El
Penitente.”

These ballets
trace Graham’s
artistic develop-
ment.

Dancers and
choreographers
acknowledge
Graham’soriginal
movement tech-

niques and her monumental body of
work as the most significant contribu-
tion to dance in this century.

presents

 

“Out of emo-
tion comes
form,” Graham
said.

She then
proved out of
form she could
re-create the
same emotion on
stage. She never
wavered in her
belief that move-
ment could ex-
press inner feel-
ing.

She soughtto
give “visible
substance to
things felt” and to “chart the graph of
the heart.”

These celebrated Graham phrases

ctivities

in the Troubadour
Thursday, Nov. 5, 9 p.m. and

Sunday, Nov. 8, 8 p.m.

Friday, Nov. 6, 8 p.m.

In The Pit

’ . . . . 7{".‘?."3"."3"‘-H-3-R‘l\H"PPM"F3‘?!-3-H-H-5M-5935-3%-5-‘MK?-55-51"!-I4:-I'57}-3-V5533‘?'5-'5CiVD'§-5-'3-I-IV53-3-5'34)!-'§H’§I'!-‘E

became metaphors central to her art.

Modem dance was chieﬂy born in
the United States.

Artists who were rebelling against
old forms created new ways to express
themselves.

The “old form” of dance at the be-
ginning of the 20th century was classi-
cal ballet, which had grown out of
royal dancing.

Hermovement emphasized thenatu-
ral rather than the formal, arbitrary
manner of the highly stylized classical
ballet.

Graham’s dances spoke eloquently
against the cmshing of the human spirit,
and one of her frequent themes was the
conderrmation of intolerance, especially
toward nonconforrnists.

The ensemble performs tomorrow
and Saturday. .

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Luminary
5 RBI, eg.
9 Bouquet flowers

14 Secrete

15 Cleveland's lake
16 La Scala

offering

17 Verbal

18 Be concerned
19 Tuscan

commune
20 Busted. army
style

22 Wander

24 Secret language
25 Porter

26 Turned into

29 Disappeared

gradually

34 Speechify

35 Aesopian tale
36 Yale

37 Marquis de —
38 Fend off

39 Federal agent
40 Plains tribesman
41 Sound track

42 Angry

43 Celebs

45 Gems

46 Parents

47 Actor Guinness
48 Quarters for

oaters
52 Soup ingredient,
sometimes

56 Small role

57 Last word

59 A Fitzgerald

60 Oak output

61 Tidy

62 Verve

613 Kind of 24A

64 Pass catchers
65 Ditto

DOWN
1 Like tame
horses
2 Fatigue
3 Eden dweller
4 Move
5 Withdraw from
membership
6 Swap
7 Tune

 

@1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

8 Abound
9 Cole Porter
musical
10 Believes
11 Spring catalog
item
12 Sea bird
13 German
industrial area
21 weighty volume
23 Before time
26 Crewman
27 Muse
28 West Pointer
29 Helen's lover
30 Spanish river
31 Tough guy
32 Give joy
33 Has a meal
35 Disappear
gradually
38 Heartthrob
39 Metric feet
41 Shellfish
42 News bit
44 Translucent
resins

11/05/92

Last week's answers

 

45 Tilts 51 Rational
47 In advance 53 Jar
48 Swindle 54 Pismo. e.g.
49 Mexican menu 55 “Citizen —"
item 58 Chess
50 Cupid pieces

WLUR weekday radio schedule

Morning Mag (Rock)-Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.

J azz—Monday, 9 a.m.-1 1 a.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m.

AM Overture (Classical)-Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.
Inspirational-Thursday, 9 a.m.-1 1 a.m.; Monday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.
Public Affairs-Monday-Friday, 11 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
Country-Monday-Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
Dance/Rap—Tuesday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-1 1:30 p.m.
Rock-Wednesday-Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.

Breakthrough Rock-Monday-Friday, 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Classical Showcase-Monday-Thursday, 6 p.m.-9 p.m.

Third Ear- Monday-Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.

W&L
Faculty and Staff

Individual Subscriptions To
The Ring—tum Phi Now Available

For Only $6

Get The Phi Delivered
To Your University Mailbox

Every Friday
For The Rest Of The Year

No More Quarters,
No More Hassles

Send cash or checks to The Ring-tum Phi, University
Center room 208. Be sure to include your name and

office building.

PAGE 6

Liddy: ‘I’m still guilt’ 

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Contributing Writer

Former Nixon administrator and
convicted Watergate conspirator G.
Gordon Liddy expressed his views on
ethics, morality and the role of govem-
ment in society in Lee Chapel Oct. 29.

“I am one of the few people to be
indicted, tried and convicted of con-
tempt of Congress.And I’m still guilty,”
Liddy exclaimed. In his speech, “In-
side Government: What Really Goes
On,” Liddy addressed the nature of
government both in theory and prac-
tice.

He expressed his dissatisfaction with
what he deemed the excesses of gov-
eminent.

“It’s out of control,” Liddy said.
“It’s not working the way the founding
fathers contemplated.”

Liddy related anecdotes from his
involvement in the Watergate scandal
and the five years that he spent in
prison, including an incident in which
he planted surveillance equipment in
the prison warden’s office.

He compared his testimony on
Watergate to Oliver Nortli’s testimony
on the Iran-Contra scandal, stating that
neither he nor North would allow them-
selves to be questioned first in private
and then in public by the Senate inves-
tigations committees.

Liddy took questions from the audi-
ence that ranged from comments he
had made on his radio program on
WJFK in Washington, D.C. to his opin-
ion on the candidates in the presiden-
tial election.

Liddy, who cannot vote because he
was convicted of a felony, said he
would vote for George Bush in the
election if he could, calling Bush “the
lesser of three evils.” He said that Bill

Clinton’s economic plan, on close con-
sideration, “will not wash.”

He said he supported a term limita-
tion for senators “absolutely,” and
stated that it is time to “force achange.”
Liddy referred to the Congress as a
“House of Lords.” He also said he
supported a line item veto for the presi-
dent as a “discipline on Congress.”

Liddy said Vice President Dan
Quayle is not as incapable as he is often
accused to be, referring to an incident
involving Corazon Aquino in which
Quayle acted calmly and authorita-
tively.

“In stressful situations when the re-
sponsibility is his, he has demonstrated
at least once that he is capable of cop-
ing,” Liddy said.

He said that the most important
short-terrn foreign relations issues fac-

Pho by allory Meyers, The ‘ing-tum Phi
Convicted felon and celebrity G.Gordon Liddy regales students
with stories about politics and prisons.

 

 

ing the next president are the problems
in the Middle East and Yugoslavia.
Liddy said the greatest long-terrn for-
eign policy issue facing the presidency
is the massive rearmament of China.

Liddy said the election this year was
a “clear choice.” A vote for Clinton
would constitute a vote for more gov-
emrnent and higher taxes, while a vote
for Bush would constitute a vote for
less government and lower taxes. But
he said he hoped people would vote
regardless of which choice they made.

Liddy’s speech was sponsored by
Contact, a group funded by the Execu-
tive Committee that brings famous or
nationally acclaimed speakers to Wash-
ington and Lee. Contact members chose
Liddy because they had heard he was
an excellent speaker, according to chair-
man David DeMilt.

Deans nix subscription plan

0 From PHI, page 1

scription on behalf of the student body
earlier this term. Lopiccolo and Peltz
told the committee a subscription plan
would free the EC from liability for
any newspaper debts and would free
the Phi from any EC control.

After receiving Elrod’s letter,
Lopiccolo said the Phi would continue

to charge faculty members for the news- .

paper. I 

“Our reasoningis that they [faculty
members] are receiving a product just
like the students are,” Lopiccolo said
Sunday. “They really need to be pay-
ing their own way.”

In an interview Monday, Elrod re-
sponded by noting that faculty mem-
bers benefit from other student activi-
ties at no cost. For example, faculty
members receive free tickets to Fancy
Dress.

Journalism ethics professor Louis
Hodges said both students and faculty
members benefit from faculty reader-
ship of the Phi.

“We need to know what kinds of
things are on the minds of the student
body,” Hodges said Monday. Faculty
members who attend FD and read the
newspaper, he said, are contributing to
W&L by taking part in the life of the
university. “The goal in all these ac-
tivities is to create community.”

Student Housing Available
for ‘93—‘94. 1 to 5 Bedroom
Houses right outside city limits.
Average Rent $200.

Ask for Mitchell or Mark Scharer
M-F 463-2823 7:30-5:00

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND
RESUME EXPERIENCEI!
Individualsand StudentOrganizations
wanted to promote SPRING BREAK,
call thenation’s leader. Iriter—Campus

Programs 1-800-327-6013

Hodges and journalism professor
John Jennings also warned that charg-
ing faculty for the newspaper could
create the potential for administrative
or faculty Control over the new spaper’s
content.

Jennings and Hodges both said the
Phi should be editorially independent.
But the sub-
s c r i p t i o n
p 1 a_ n ,
Jennings

§caut—ioncd,i I I I

could dimin-
ish that inde-
p e r1 (1 e n c e ,
because pay-
ments from
W&L to the
new spaper
would be “a
discrete
amount of
money that the administration can turn
on and off.”

Lopiccolo saidthe potential forpres-
sure from subscribers is one faced by
newspapers in the real world.

“That kind of constraint applies to
anybody who offers aproductfor sale,”
Lopiccolo said. “It’s a kind of control,
but it’s also the reader’s prerogative.”

The EC can now exercise that pre-
rogative twice a year, Lopiccolo said,
by deciding whether to buy a bulk
subscription to the Phi. That subscrip-

Hodges

 

   
 
  
 

  
 
 
     
       
 

  
   

The College Democrats
would like to thank
the Washington and Lee community

for electing

Bill Clinton

President of the United States
of America.

“The torch has been passed to a new
generation of leadership.”
— John Fitzgerald Kennedy

 

Z////////////// / /  
/ /
/ %
/ . . /
g Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing g
g and Accessories é
Z 23 N. Main sr. (703) 463-5988 ¢
/ Lexington, VA 24450 /

tion, other subscriptions sold to par-
ents and alumni, and advertising rev-
enues are the Phi’s main funding
sources. The Phi also receives some
non-financial support from W&L, in-
cluding an office in the University
Center, electricity for that office and
security.

Both Lopiccolo and Elrod said it is
possible that the cost of those univer-
sity services could be treated as pay-
ment from W&L for faculty subscrip-
tions to the newspaper. * ‘

“I'd be willing to talk to them [the
deans] about that,”Lopiccolo said. “But
[our discussions have] never gotten to
that point.”

Untilthe situation changes, the Phi’s
decision to charge for the newspaper is
likely to mean fewer faculty members
will read it, Hodges and Elrod said.

“I’m an admirer of the Phi,” Elrod
said. “I think it’s very lamentable that
this is going to cause a reduction in the
faculty readership.”

University President John Wilson
told the faculty about the deans’ deci-
sion Monday afternoon, Elrod said,
and the Board of Trustees learned of
the situationduringamectinglastweek-
end in Atlanta. Neither the faculty nor
the trustees took any action in response
to the news.

James Lake is a second-year law
student and a former Phi associate
editor.

  
  
 

  
    

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1992

6

H3«I'I'ISTBEI'BI'~

MEANS LOW PRICES  

 

SAVE $1.00 PER LB.

    

‘REDUCED’

40 - 50 COUNT

MEDIUM
SHRIMP

 399

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS " H

 

8 ‘SP1 it Chirlx

SPI.IT FRYERW

LIMIT 3 WITH
ADDITIONAL

BREA5T$.'?‘.’.".‘.'.'f‘.‘.‘. LB.

   
  
 

2-

 
  

 

WHITE OR RED
POTATOES

7

REDUCED
PRICE

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 IITER
$"""

     

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

STUDENTS
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER
COURTESY CARD.

I‘I3lI'IS TGGIBI

YOUR. NAME '
YOUR ADDRESS

YOUR CITY. STATE ‘
X/X oi/oi/oi
1111111

 

IT ALLOWS YOU TO
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER 134
HARRIS TEETER
LOCATIONS IN
GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00
COUPON AND SAVE.

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON

VALUABLE 70¢ coupon
64 OZ. CARTON PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

I PREMIUM ORANGE’

E This Coupon McIy_N9t
Be Reproduced. Limit
I One Coupon Per_
Fa_m_IIy, Per Visit With
| MInImumcI;IIrchase of
$10.00. er Good
ru

November 10, I992.

Novem 4

I “9” EN

  

 

” JUICE I
F: 5 9 I
  WITH l
COUPON I

PLU 2171 I

DAIRY I

I

Ilamsieeter

0.:

VALUABLE 30¢ COUPON
HOT on MILD 15.5 oz. JAR

   
   
  

N PRESIDENT'S CHOICE N
I sAI.sA PICANTE ..
,v.::-.:-.-sot
I 3 9 '
I I
I . is U'I3N_ I
I ll';*R2::::3.:“.ri..'t.t.':§._ .. I
_rIe Coupon, Per, ‘-0-’ , .
I II%§lLIa.§':I§I,:;’l'L;:.:'§I I
$I1I(I):'\I°ecI.3er§4r ru Flu 2I97
N Novem r I0, I992. GROCERY N
'°‘v’Ii°’=“ I— '
3 IIIIIISTGBIGI
Li__________J

VALUABLE 40¢ COUPON "

  
    
 

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE 7 oz.
I 0 I I roImI_.I.A CHIPS I
I ANY $3.00 on MORE I I  ¢ -
I PURCHASE IN OUR I E,-,;.;»:I-3* I
I PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I I WSW "gr I
I THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I I °°ci.°3'c,,ou7:,.n.‘P‘«;5,ii"' cg‘{,I,T,gN I
I LIMIT ONE coupon PER FAMILY PER VISIT I I ,‘;,',§};,,Y,;,,,°,§ ','{,?)'§} - _ 
OFFER GOOD NOV. 4 mnu NOV. I0, 1992 smyeci. be’e‘I'1(_I‘m   pm 22°, .
I COUPON PRODUCE I Novemiier I0. I992 - _M___ / enocsnv I
I Aw: I I airs." M ‘ / I l
L W Ilanisteeter Pu, ,, ,.,G_| 40¢ Ilarrisfaetet Ql
O 0 g
Prices Effective Through November I0, I 992
Prices In This Ad Eitective Wednesday November A Throug Tuesdag, November IO, I992. In Lexington Stores
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To eaiers. We Giadiy Accept Fecierai Food Stamps.

9

) ‘O.

<1.

i

4

 

    

0

he Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1992

On The Merrill Lynch Fast Track

Interviewing ii: CHARLOTTFSVILLE “:3? December 3 & 4

Resumes will be accepted through November 12th

Meet Kevin Rendino, Carolyn Jones and Patrice
Franco. They participated in the Merrill Lynch
Individual Investor Intern/MBA Program and
their program experience helped them ad-
vance quickly to new professional challenges.
Kevin, Carolyn and Patrice will continue to rely
on what they learned during the program to
help them succeed throughout their Merrill
Lynch careers.

The Intern Program is available to new
college graduates. The MBA Program is avail-
able to new MBAs. These programs can help
put you on the Merrill Lynch fast track. As a
program participant you are offered a challeng-
ing position under the guidance of a senior
manager. Program positions are available in
product development, marketing, operations
and finance.

Throughout the program you are exposed
to firm strategy through meetings with senior
management and you participate in task force
projects which help a variety of business units
to meet their strategic objectives. Formal
classes address career development issues _
and help you enhance your leadership skills.
You are given responsibility and accountability

and your program experience will help posi-
tion you for fast-track success at Merrill Lynch.

Candidates for the Individual Investor
Intern/MBA Program have outstanding records
of achievement in their academics, extracur-
ricular activities and work experience. They
are interested in the challenge of the fast-paced
financial services industry and want to be rec-
ognized for their accomplishments.

If you have the talent, creativity, energy
and commitment to be a winner at Merrill
Lynch, the Individual Investor Intern/MBA Pro-
gram is offering an unequaled opportunity to
excel. To find out more, write us:  

Individual Investor Intem/MBA Program
Merrill Lynch

iP.O. Box 9056
  Princeton, NJ 08543-9056

Igﬁgmerrilllnynch

A tradition of trust.

Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer.
© 1992, Merrill Lynch & Company, Inc.

an»

 

~ ~-.——--——-~---«-—-—~-..
. 1..» <.v.x.1c.1:_x_: n:_n.u.:s¢ur‘- s....

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

Football: Bridegwater 20,W&L 12 (4-3)

WP-W&L 9,Dayton 8 (13-10)
MSoc- W&L 3,VMI 2 (8-8)
WSoc- R—MC 2,W&L0 (5-11)

CC-(M) W&L 27,EMC 28 (Win) (19-14)

PAGE 8

S

Clip: Zﬂimg-tum Iﬁhi

PORTS

This Week:

Football- at Guilford 11/7

WP- Eastern D. III Champs. 11/7&8
CC-(M&W) at ODAC Champs. 11/7 0
VB— at ODAC Tourney 11/6&7 ’

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

NOVEMBER 5, 1992

Mitchem

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team was KO’d in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Tournament by a 1-0 loss to
Randolph—Macon College.

The Generals did manage to fin-
ish their I992 campaign with an
election day win over cross—town
challenger Virginia Military Insti-
tute, 3-2, in a game that saw senior
Mike Mitchem tie the W&L school
career assist
record of 22.

Mitchem
wanted to
getthe assist
at home on
Liberty Hall
Fields.

But alas,
could

   

_.‘.«.- ~

Mitchem 

Mitchem left Lexington for the
ODAC Tournament at Virginia
Wesleyan still one assist short, but
was able to equal the mark (held by
Patrick Brown, 1986-89) in Lexing-
ton at neighboring VMI.

He wasted no time, either.
Mitchem assisted on senior Kyle
Fanning’s first half goal to give
W&L a 1-0 lead.

Reid Murphy, a senior tri-cap-
tain, put the Generals ahead 2-0
midway through the second half with
the 28th goal of his W&L career,
ninth of the season.

Washington and Lee kept the
Keydets off the scoreboard for nearly
80 minutes despite a raucous VMI
crowd of a couple hundred cadets.
Then VMI, who beat the Generals
2-0 last year, nailed two scores in a
four minute span to knot the game at
two with six minutes to play.

Senior Michael Hill quieted the
crowd with a breakaway goal with
3:51 left. Reid Murphy gave the
feed for his tearn-leading seventh

W&L assist mark

reaches

assist this year. It was Hill ’s second
goal this season; both were game
winners.

Senior goaltender Mike
Steinbrook kept it that way with
several dazzling second half saves.

The Generals concluded the ’92
season with an 8-8 overall record
and 4-4 in the conference. It was
tenth straight season in which W&L
was at least .500 in the ODAC.

The victory capped off a season
in which the Generals struggled to
consistently find the net through
their first eleven contests, losing
seven of those and being outscored
20-12.

W&L then exploited two weak
teams, Bridgewater and Lynchburg,
for 17 goals in back-to-back games.

The Generals won four of their
final five
g a m e s ,
including
a 3-0 first
r 0 u n d
to u r n a -
ment win
a g a i n st
Hampden-
Sydney
College.

That
shutout
was Steinbrook ’ s seventh of the sea-
son, which placed him, also, in the
school record books tied for the
single-season shutout mark.
Steinbrook started all 16 games this
season and finished with .792 save
and 1.46 goals against averages.

The loss to Randolph—Macon
marked the third straight time, go-
ing back to last season, that W&L
fell to the'Yellow Jackets 1-0.

This week, W&L senior defender
Greg Williams was named first team
All-ODAC for the third consecu-
tive time.

Murphy received a second team
mention. Both players have been
honoredall four years of their ca-
reer.

    

Steinbrook

Women’s

oDAe

chase ends, 2-0

By J USTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

After hitting stride late in the sea-
son, the women’s soccer team ran out

v of steam in Friday’s conference tour-

nament semifi-
nal.

After playing
a scoreless first
half, the Gener-
als were in posi-
tion to upset Old
Dominion Ath-
letic Conference
regular season
and tournament
champions, Randolph—Macon College.

However, R—MC scored just one
minute after halftime and iced the game
with a second goal with five minutes
remaining.

“In the first half both teams played
a very solid game,” said assistant coach
Sarah Ludington. “Tl1ey[R-MC] just
had a little more ﬁre and came out a
little harder in the second half.”

Junior Kate Stimeling made 13 saves
as R—MC outshot the Generals 23-5 in
the 2-0 loss.

The two—goal deficit matched
September’s 3-1 loss to R—MC, but the
Generals had improved greatly and had
a realistic chance to beat the eventual
tournament champions.

“It was much closer than the first
game,” said Ludington.

The team finished the season at 5-

11, but the record alone is misleading.

The Generals finished fourth in the
ODAC with a 5-5 conference record
and played one of the toughest non-
conference schedules in the league.
The squad took on regional powers

 

Moseley

130 S. Main St.

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.- Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

Mary Washington, Messiah, Method-
ist and Denison.

While senior tri-captain Susan
Moseley’s offense will be missed next
year, she is the only player graduating.
Moseley set season and career assist
records "this year and her passing may
be tough to replace.

But the scoring of junior Angie
Carrington, sophomore Anne Spruill
and freshman Jenni Robison should all
be back next year, along with junior
Corinda Hankins who was in England
for the season. Hankins scored 13 goals
in her first two seasons.

The entire defense will return, led
by juniors Allison Lewis, Kathleen

' Eastland and Aspen Yawars and sopho-

more Marina Jackson.

Lewis and Yawars played solid de-
fense as Eastland and Jackson adjusted
to starting every game marking the
other teams’ top scorers. ‘

The defense gave up fewer than two
goals per game.

Essential to Generals’ stinginess was
the goalkeeping of junior Kate
Stimeling and freshman Mims Rowe.
After a rocky start for Rowe, Stimeling,
last year's all-ODAC and all-state
goalie, returned to the net after starting
five games at halfback. In addition to
solidifying the defense, Stimelin g gave
Rowe time to improve and develop.

“I think I really learned a lot by just
watching Kate play,” said Rowe.

Rowe’s improvement could allow
Stimeling to return to offense nextyear.

More important than the skills that
will return next year is the work ethic
developed by the team.

“They learned how to practice with
intensity,” said Ludington. “They
played at the next level. I think they’ll
take that into next season.”

463-7969

Eagles fly pt W&L, 20-1 2 '1

By SEAN O’RoURxE
Phi Sports Editor

A friend told me an anecdote after
the Generals’ football game against
Bridgewater on Saturday.

He said a Bridgewater player was
asked before the game what his record
was. The player responded, “Four and
one against W&L in the past five years.”

That comment is indicative of just
how intense this rivalry has become.

An added burden for the Generals
was the fact this was theirfourth Home-
coming game of the year.

Well, thanks to the Eagles, W&L is
now 2-2 in those games by way of a 20-
12 loss.

The Generals big problem all year
has been stopping the running attack of
teams with speed. Emory & Henry,
Randolph—Macon, Sewanee and
Bridgewater all had speedy ninners all
had one back gain over 100 yards.

Assistant coach Frank Miriello said
that the lack of team speed on defense
is a concern.

“Speed is a problem for us. We lost
some speed on the outside, and that’s
where teams are beating us.”

The speed that beat the Generals at
J opson Field was in the form of Ronnie
Howard. The junior tailback ran for
186 yards and two touchdowns. He
also had kickoff retums of 61 and 59
yards. Fallon said it was just one of
those days.

“The kids really wanted tobeatthem.
But it was just one of those days when
it didn’t function. There are no ex-
cuses.”

After a scoreless first quarter, the
Eagle defense decided to jump-start
the scoreboard.

The Generals were inside their own
25 when Geren Steiner tried to hit tight
end Josh Levinson in a crowd. The
Eagles’ stand-out free safety, William
Prince, stepped in front of Levinson
and picked it off. Prince then took off
down the left sideline, broke a few
tackles and dashed into the end zone.

The extra point attempt failed, and
the score was 6-0.

The Generals’ offense was stuck in
neutral for_most of the first half. Fallon
said the tearn’s “timing was off.” But
they mounted a final drive with a few
minutes to go in the half.

Steiner-to-Propst was the most-used
phrase in the radio booths during the
game.

William Propst caught six balls for
65 yards in the first half, and he was the
main target on the final drive.

The Generals moved inside the
Eagles’ 20. From there, Steiner threw
a perfect timing pass to Propst in the
comer of the end zone.

The comer back had great cover-
age, though, and the ball just bounced
off Propst’s chest. W&L settled for a
Drew Thomas 35-yard field goal at the
buzzer. The lead was now 6-3.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Hing-um hi

 

William Propst tries to avoid an oncoming Bridgewater linebacker after hauling in one of his career-
high 13 receptions. Propst’s outstanding day propelled him into the ODAC lead with 40 catches cm

the year.

Fallon wasn’t pleased with the lack
of points, but he thought the offense
was doing a good job in other areas.

“They didn’t do anything we didn’t
expect,” Fallon said. “I was pleased
with the way we picked up the blitzes.
We didn’t do a good job scoring.”

gutsy decision; On the road, in front of
a hostile crowd, Fallon decided to go
for two.

“We practiced too hard all week to
tie,” Fallon said.

With the ball spotted on the left
hash-mark, W&L ran a roll-out play to

Bridgewater the right. The
wastednotimein- play was de-
creasing their lead signed to draw

to 10.Howard took
a handoff up the
middle, made two
beautiful cuts and
raced for six.

“In the second
half we kept the

 

the linebackers
up to the line of
scrimmage and
have a General
slip behind them
into the end zone.

The intended

quarterback under receiver,Tommy
control, but Mason, got held
Howard hurt us on up at the goal line
two plays up the and slipped. By
middle,” said thetimehegotto
Miriello. his feet, the line-
W&L .put to- backers had con-
gether anothernice verged on Steiner
drive, but it stalled and tackled him
at the Eagles’ 35. at the one.
Thomas then made ' “No second

his second ﬁeld goal of the game from
42 yards out. _

Half—way through the fourth, the
Generals got a lucky break and capital-
ized on it. The Eagles came on a blitz,
which opened the middle of the field.
Steiner found Wilson Moore just hang-
ing out in the open space, and Moore
took off from there.

He received excellent down-field
blocking and used that to rumble‘ 76
yards for the Generals first touchdown
of the afternoon.

With the lead one, Fallon made a

thoughts,” Fallon said, “I never think
of that. It would have worked, but
Mason got tied up and fell. Ithought we
still had a chance to come down and
kick it[a field goal].”

The Generals did get that chance.
With a little more than five minutes to
go, the Eagles just had to keep rurming
the ball as effectively as they were.

Instead, Eagles’ quarterback Ned
Atkins tried to hit receiver Mike Ergle
on a curl. Free safety Marc Newman
made a mad dash for the receiver and
cut in front of him.

Somehow, even on the dead run,
Newman hung onto theball for a huge
interception.

The Generals moved the ball into
Bridgewater territory. For Fallon, rig:

drive was for a ﬁeld goal. I H
“We were playing for the ﬁeld goal. '

Get in kicking distance and then play
with the clock.”

The Generals faced a second and six
at the Eagles’ 34. The Generals went to
an out pattern to Propst three stari
times. They were stopped on secon ,
third and fourth.

It was a play Fallon had faith in.

“I was so confident we can com-
plete that pass. I told Geren just bring it_
down. But we couldn’t get it.”

Bridgewater would tack on seve
more on a 58-yard touchdown burst b
Howard with under a minute to play.

The 20-12 loss dropped the Gener-
als to 4-3, 1-3 in Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference play.

The good news was the play of
Propst. He caught a career—high 13
passes for 133 yards. Ir1 two game?
against Bridgewater, Propst has 23
catches. The 13 receptions moves
Propst past Randolph-Macon’s Garry
Carter for the ODAC receiving lead
with 40 catches.

W&L must regroup and prepare for
Guilford next week. It's their final‘.

ODAC game, and their final Home- ‘

coming game.

Fallon says the Bridgewater loss
can’t deter their preparation.

“We’re all frustrated, we had op-
portunities. But we can’t let it affect
this week. We have to block it out, and
use it as a learning experience.”

Polo falls to Arkansas’ otherpower

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

Throughout the entire regular sea-
son, the Generals water polo team
worked towards playing their best in
the post season tournaments.

W&L finished the Southern Con-
ference Championships at 3-1, good
enough for second place. With only
one tournament left, the team stands at
13-10.

The weekend started off with a
match against Richmond. The two
intrastate foes had split their previous
four meetings. This finah deciding
game went to the Generals, 8-7.

Head coach Page Remillard said
W&L continued to use the same tactics
they used in their last game against the
Spiders, an 8-6 victory. '

“As we expected, Richmond didn’t
look at what we did to them in that [8-
6] game, they looked within. So our
defense worked as well as it did in the
other game,” said Remillard.

The next game turned out to be the
sole loss for the Generals in the touma-
ment. The Generals were unable to
make a fourth quarter rally, and lost to
the eventual champion, the University

of Arkansas-Little Rock, 9-6.

“The game was not a three goal
game,” commented Remillard. “We
were down by one late, and we took a
chance, trying to score a goal, and they
were good enough to beat us. Then we
went out on a limb to come back, and
they scored again.”

Everyone got into the act against
Hampden-Sydney, as W&L pounded
the Tigers, 19-12. Senior co-captain
Chris Hagge and freshman Rich Cober
tallied three goals each, while senior
Andrew Pearson and freshmen Frank

. Braden and Bryan Drum contributed

two each.

W&L rounded out their weekend
schedule with Dayton. Dayton stayed
close, and was actually leading at one
point, but the team kept its composure
and moved on to a 9-8 win. Golub
scored five goals, and junior Jacob
Berrnan contributed three.

“What matters is what happens at
the end of the season, and we never lost
focus of that,” said Remillard.

This weekend the Generals start the
Division III Eastern Championships at
Cy Twombly Pool. W&L enters as the
top seed, followed by Johns Hopkins,
who they lost to earlier in the season,
and MIT.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring—rum Phi

Junior Greg Golub sets up the Generals offensive attack. Golub
has been the focal point of the team’s offense this year, and his

play earned first team All-Southern alter this weekend’s tourna-.

ment. .

VARNER 8: POLE

For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

Furniture Dealers

463-2742

You too can have on exciting
future in The world of advertising!

ADOPTION OPTION
Tim and Vicki wish to share our home with an infant.
We have college degrees; and we both work in education
Our hobbies are music, golf, and church activities.
if you wish to talk with us, please call

1-800-296-2367

Go FUN PLACES, MEET INTERESTING PEOPLE!
CALL BENJY 463-8581

O -‘VF-C‘

 

