 

 

  Southern Virginia College
for Women gets a financial
boost from bond issue

iMens and womens
swimming out-splash

opponents

 

U112 ilting-tum lﬂlii

VOLUME 93, NO. 18

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 4, 1994

Deadly bacteria infect student

to By SARAH GILBERT,
FRANCESCA KEFALAS,
AND STEVEN WILLIARD
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

Washington and Lee junior
TylerDuvallwas rushed to Stone-
wﬂl Jackson Hospital’s emer-
gency room Wednesday with a
meningococcal infection.

Duvall was first diagnosed as
having the bacterial infection at
the Student Health Center. Phy-
sicians at Stonewall Jackson con-
firmed the diagnosis. Duvall has
since been transferred to the Uni-
versity of Virginia Hospital,
where he was listed in serious but
stable condition at press time.

Duvall, a 21-year-old transfer
student from Colby University,
is a guard on the men’s basket-
ball team. Duvall visited the
inﬁrrnary Tuesday. According
to trainer Melanie Middleton,
head basketball coach Verne
Canﬁeld has a policy of follow-
ing up with athletes whenever
they miss practice for illness.

“We called Tyler between
8:30 and 9:00 AM and he said he
couldn’t get to the inﬁrmary, [be-
cause he was not strong enough
to get out ofbed]” said Middleton.
“It’s kind of scary to think about
what could have happened.”

The Generals had already ar-
rived at Norfolk for their game
against Virginia Wesleyan when

the team was notiﬁed of Tyler’s
diagnosis. “I walked into the
locker room and the athletic di-
rector from Virginia Wesleyan
told me,” said Coach Canﬁeld.
“That was at 7:00, and we were
dressed and on the bus within 10
minutes.”

Dr. Jane Horton, university
physician, said the meningococ-
cal infection can be spread to
anyone who has had close per-
sonal contact with Duvall. Horton
said close personal contact is
more than spending a brief pe-
riod with a contagious person.
She said someone who has spent
more than four hours at a time
during the past ﬁve to seven
days with Duvall should contact

the Inﬁrmary.

Maryanne Simurda, assistant
professor of biology, added that
being at the same party as an
infected person would not cause
infection.

“Only if I had been at a party
of just me and [the infected per-
son], would I be at risk of getting
infected,” she said.

Brian Shaw, university direc-
tor of communications and pub-
lic "relations, said people who
have had casual contact with
Duvall should not be concerned.

“Simply being in the room
with Tyler is not enough,” Shaw
said. “Sitting next to him in class
is probably not a problem.”

Horton said people who have

the infection is

had close contact with people
who are currently receiving pre-
ventive treatment
for meningococ-
cal infection
should not be wor-
ried. Horton said

transmitted much
the same way
colds are.

The meningo-
coccal bacteria
are carried in the
mouth and throat
and can be trans-
mitted through
coughing, sneez-
ing and sharing food and drink.

However, Simurda added, the

 

Duvall

meningococcal bacteria is a hu-
man pathogen, and cannot “hang
' out” on a glass or
desk forany period
_ of time. Immedi-
ate human contact
is the only way the
bacteria can be
transmitted.
Another factor
in determining
likelihood of trans-
mission is the
variation with re-
gard to the strain
of the bacteria,
Simurda said.
“About 10 per-
cent of all healthy people carry
the meningococcal bacteria, but

the disease incidence is not 10
percent,” she said. “Only a very
virulent or pathogenic extreme
of the bacteria could cause ill-
ness.”

“There are a lot of variables
when you’re talking about infec-
tious disease,” Simurda said.
“How healthy you are, how sus-
ceptible your body is to the bac-
teria, whether or not you are tak-
ing antibiotics, and how virulent
is the organism can all be fac-
tors.”

Someone could carrying the
bacteria but not get sick, Horton
said.

i>See DUVALL, page 4

Fire damages 3
students’ home

By MICHELLE BRIEN

Phi News Editor

out of the Palms.
Purcell said their kitten, Malcom, was not

an

harmed in the ﬁre.

Fire damaged two rooms and a hallway at the
home three of Washington and Lee students. No
one was hurt in the the Wednesday afternoon ﬁre.

The ﬁre occurred at 310 Myers
St., the home of W&L seniors Ivy

.. Johnson and ..Laura Purcell and

W&L law student Kristopher
Ahrend.

Johnson was the ﬁrst to dis-
cover the ﬁre. She called the Lex-

' ington Fire Department at 4:25

p.m., and ﬁreﬁghters were at the
house by 4:30, according to Lex-
ington Volunteer Fire Chief Ken-
neth Hall. Firefighters had the
ﬂames under control in about 10
minutes, but had to cut out por-
tions of the floor and carry them
outside so that the ﬂames would
not spring up again.

“We took it outside and cut it

up so we didn’t create water damage within the

house,” said Hall.

Hall said damages to the house are estimated at
$10,000 to $15,000. The kitchen, living room, and
hallway of the house were damaged.
said she and her housemates won’t
know how much property they lost until they can
get in the house again, but added the living room

Purcell

Hall said he thinks the ﬁre began in the base-
ment near the water heater exhaust pipe. However, _
Hall said the fire department will not make an
ofﬁcial statement about the cause of the ﬁre until

the property owner’s insurance in-

  

 

Purcell

spector comes to examine the house
Feb. 9. .

Hall said all utilities to the house

were cut off, and the house will be
boarded up until the insurance in-
spector comes. He said the heat from
the ﬁre melted the wall thermostat
that controlled the furnace and blew
fuses.

Dean of Freshmen and Residence

Life Dennis Manning said the uni-
versity has offered the three an apart-
ment in Woods Creek.

‘‘I got a call from Samantha
Holloman,” said Manning. “She lives

two or three doors down [on Myers
Street]. She called to let me know

there was a house on fire that three W&L students
were renting.”

Manning said he and Dean of Students David
Howison went to the house to make sure everyone
was okay and to offer them a place to live.

“The University was great,” said Purcell. “I
really want to get across that they were helpful.
The small town and the small school atmosphere

was destroyed as well as the kitchen stove and
possibly the microwave. She said they were al-
lowed to enter after the ﬁre was extinguished to
get their clothes, and then they left.

“My clothes smelled horrible,” Purcell said..

really held up.”

Purcell said they will probably live in Woods
Creek for the remainder of the year.

Hall said 19 ﬁrefighters and two engines re-
sponded to the call, and the Buena Vista’Fire

Photo by Betsy Green, The Rlng-tum Phi

University Rector A. Stevens Miles said his speech at the ODK Coiivocation Monday was the official
beginning of the presidential search. The Presidential Search Advisory Committee  the Board of
Trustees now will begin looking for a replacement for Umversity President John D. Wilson, who will

retire in June 1995.

ODK inducts 26students

By LOURRAINE TIGAS
Phi Staff Writer

‘The Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation,
postponed due to last week’s bad weather,
was held in Lee Chapel on Monday, Jan. 31.

Twenty—six students were initiated into
the society’s Alpha Circle. The featured
speaker was University‘ Rector A. Stevens
hﬁles Jr. with a speech entitled “Future Lead-
e ship at Washington and Lee”.

Miles spoke about leadership in general
and at the university. “Washington and Lee
has had the good fortune to enjoy brilliant
leadership in times of need,” he said, citing
George Washington and Robert E. Lee as
examples.

* Miles said the biggest challenge since

Robert E. Lee’s presidency has been the shift ‘

to coeducation. He stated the university’s
problems are “much more manageable” due
to “the superior job done by President Wil-
son.” ,

Miles declared his speech the ofﬁcial be-
gﬂining of the search for the next president.

He described the formation of the Presidential
Search Advisory Committee, which will
present a list of ten candidates to the Board of
Trustees. The search will begin in March, and
a list should be completed by November, said
Miles. Interviews will be held in December
and January, and the ﬁnal list will be pre-
sented in February to the Board, which will
make the ﬁnal decision.

Miles expressed a desire to see in the future
an increase in ﬁnancial aid, maintenance of a
low tuition, a continuance with the capital
campaign, encouragement of diversity, and a
priority on the Honor System.

Miles, a 1951 graduate of Washington and
Lee and a member of the Board of Trustees,
resides in Louisville, Kentucky, and has had a
long career in banking. He retired in 1990 and
has been active in civic affairs, particularly
scouting.

President John D. Wilson gave the open-
ing remarks, honoring “the past, present, and
future leaders of Washington and Lee.” Wil-
son also gave a brief history of the settlement
of the Shenandoah Valley in commemoration
of the 123rd Founder’s Day, which was Jan.

19, the date originally scheduled for the
convocation.

Matthew Jackson, class of 1994 and
president of the ODK Alpha Circle, led the
initiation, or “tapping,” of the students and
Miles, an honorary initiate. Five additional
alumni will be initiated during Alumni
Weekend in May.

The ODK Alpha Circle initiates of 1994
are:
HONORARY INITIATES:

A.S. Miles Jr. ‘51

Will be initiated in May: I

W.F. Barron ‘52 H.C.V. Smith ‘73
G.E. Calvert ‘44 W.E. Smith Jr. ‘63

D. Herrick

STUDENT INITIATES:

Law School:

C.F. Castner P.F. Kirgis
K.A. Hardin J.B. Lake

R.F. Hartman A.M. Wensinger

I->See ODK, page 4

“I thought, ‘Oh my God, I smell like I walked

department stood by while Lexington responded.

DUI limit may go to .08

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

On a weekend night in Octo-
ber, 1991 , a Washington and Lee
student blew a .08 on a
breathalizer test when a Lexing-
ton policeman pulled him over
for running a stop sign.

Then he drove home.

Under Virginia state law, he
wasn’t legally drunk, because his
blood alcohol content was below
.10.

Soon, however, a driver who
blows a .08 in Virginia may be
riding to jail instead of driving
home.

Several bills before the 1994 I

General Assembly propose to
lowerthedrunkdrivinglimitfrom
.10 to .08 and to stiffen the pen-
alties for DUI offenders.

Under current laws, blowing
a .05 to .09 can result in a DUI
conviction if a driver is also
charged with- reckless driving or
fails ﬁeld tests, such as walking a
straight line.

The minimum penalty for a
first-time offender is a ﬁne of at
least $200. A second conviction
within ﬁve years is punishable
by the same ﬁne and at least one
month, in jail. However, a judge
may waive all but two days ofthe
jail sentence. A third conviction
within ﬁve years results in a fine
of at least $500 and a mandatory
30-day jail term. The penalties
vary for juveniles.

If all of the bills pass, they
will lower the legal limit and
increase the ﬁnes.

They will require a six-month
license suspension for drunk driv-
ers under 21 and a seven-day
license suspension for all drunk
drivers.

They will also require a one-
year prison term fora drunk driver

convicted of involuntary man-
slaughter.

The General Assembly con-
sidered similar proposals in its‘
last session but voted them down.
Lexington Police Sergeant Rick
Sutton thinks there is a better
chance for passage in 1994.

II» See DUI, page 4

«R

A 0 File photol
A lower legal drimkenness limit of .08 instead of
.10 could mean fewer trips to East Lex.

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

 

South Korean farmers protest

Police in South Korea prevented more than 20,000 protest-
ing farmers from marching on the U.S. Embassy. The
farmers were angry over the opening of South Korea’s
markets to foreign rice. Rice is the main source of income for
the country’s 6 million farmers. The farmers say they cannot
compete against the imports.

Palestinian/Israeli peace
agreement close to final terms

Palestinians and Israelis say that an agreement is close on
the final terms for Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and
the West Bank of Jericho. Peace talks resumed Tuesday in
Cairo. One source suggested the agreement could be signed
as early as next week. ~

The Nation

Breakthrough in Harding case

 

The FBI is examining pieces of paper found in a Portland
restaurant dumpster that could implicate Tonya Harding in
the Jan. 6 attack on Nancy Kerrigan. Harding’s ex-husband
Jeff Gillooly pleaded guilty to racketeering charges Tuesday.
A committee of the U.S Figure Skating Association will
recommend whether Harding should be thrown off the U.S.
Olympic Team.

Discovery carries first Russian
Cosmonaut to ﬂy on U.S. shuttle

Space Shuttle Discovery blasted off today carrying five
Americans and the first Russian to ﬂy on a U.S. shuttle. The
crew left at sunrise for an eight-day science mission, the first
time both astronauts and cosmonauts have been launched in
the same spaceship.

, Rodent predicts cold weather

l

71-»-v‘-,

 Punxsggﬁjyney Phil saw his shadow Wednesday, predat-
‘fing six more-iweeks of winter. The groundhog predicted cold
weather f3“'r’ the 98th year out of 108. The forecast is actually
drafted days in advance by the Inner Circle club that stages

the Groundhog Day events.

New cable system can block out
unwanted charmels, shows

The cable industry Tuesday announced a system that
would alert parents to upcoming violent shows and allow
them to be blocked. The system is the result of an effort to
prevent congressional efforts to mandate a reduction in
television violence. Major cable networks endorsed the
system, including MTV, HBO, and CNN.

New smoking study reveals link
to colon, rectal cancer

Studies involving more than 165,000 people show evi-
dence that cigarette smoking can lead to colon and rectal
cancer in both men and women. A tendency towards colorectal
cancer can be set for life by early smoking, even if the habit
is later stopped, although quitting at any age does lower the
risk of other diseases such as lung cancer and heart disease.

Congressional hearings to
investigate Clinton dealings

Congressional hearings will soon be scheduled to look into
the Clinton Arkansas business dealings. The hearings will
examine whether government-insured depositor’s money
was diverted illegally from Madison Guarantee Savings &
Loan to Whitewater Development Corp, half of which was
owned by President Clinton and Hillary Clinton.

The State

Battlefield raceway gets OK

 

The Culpeper County Board of Supervisors voted Tues-
day to permit a $10 million motor raceway to be built atop a
Civil War battlefield. Preservation groups and landowners
have fought for years on this issue. The proposed site for the
motor way, Brandy Station, was the Civil War’s largest
cavalry engagement. One hundred thirty-eight died there.

Poll shows North lacks support

A new poll shows that almost any Democrat could defeat
Oliver North in the race for a U.S. Senate seat. The poll found
that North is favored to win the Republican nomination, but
lacks the support to win the general election. Charles S. Robb
is favored to win the Democratic nomination.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker

 

The Rin -tum Phi Febru 4 1994

 

MSA $1,500 request granted

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

As the Executive Committee found out Monday,
you can’t ask campus groups to share a signiﬁcant
sum of money.

The EC heard from the Minority Students Asso-
ciation and Contact with regard to a conflict over how
to use the $8,000 in Contact’s “speaker fund,” a fund
designed by the EC to provide certain groups on
campus with money to bring speakers to Washington
and Lee. MSA has access to the fund, but there was
not enough money left in the fund to bring Patricia
Russel McCloud, a renowned black speaker, to cam-
pus for Black History Month.

“There’s no money left for us,” said MSA Presi-
dent Ayanna Brady.

Contact Co-Chair Matt Jackson said much of the
speaker fund money was spent in bringing speakers
like Bill Buckley and Tom Wolfe to campus.

But there was some confusion over how money
from the speaker fund was to be appropriated. EC
President Robert Tompkins said the money was
meant to be used on a first come, first served basis.

“The point of the speaker fund was to encourage

competition,” said EC Secretary Ashby Hackney.

Jackson said Contact had voted to give MSA $2,000
to bring McCloud to campus. That still
left MSA with over $1,500 to come up
with. Brady and other MSA members
asked the EC for the extra $1,500.

Jackson said MSA had already used
money from the speaker fund when
they allegedly agreed to cosponsor Ben
Chavis of the NAACP for this March.
But Brady and other MSA members
said they did not agree to fund the
Chavis event, as he would not be able to
speak for Black History Month in
February.

“There’s a difference between fund-
ing and cosponsoring,” said Jackson. “I
thought we had your support on that
(the Chavis event).”

“I think that Contact assumed... that ‘MSA was I

sponsoring Ben Chavis,” said MSA member Maurice
Cole.

Jackson said the speaker
Contact’s budget, so the amount of money spent out
of the speaker fund for each event cannot be
precisely determined.

 

Jackson

fund is a part of

“It seems that perhaps it was unclear that the

speaker fund was a separate account or whether it

was partof Contact’s budget,” said.
Cole.

The EC agreed to grant MSA
$1,500 to fund the McCloud speech
by a vote of 9-2. EC members said the
MSA should appeal to other sources
of revenue in order to give the EC the
$1,500 back before the end of the
year. ‘

“We would have no problem mak-
ing up the difference... once we know
how much other departments are will-
ing to give,” said Hackney.

Tompkins said he would like to
see Contact “set up a full process for
scheduling events” that are paid foP
with speaker fund money.

“Maybe the members of Contact don’t realize
that they are the trustees of that $8,000,” said Senior
EC Rep Alison Lewis.

Jackson said Contact was not out to control the
entirety of the speaker fund money.

“We didn’t have a set idea as far as using up this
speaker fund [right away].”

Strange calls bafﬂe students_

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

On Jan. 26. Washington and Lee
senior Pearce Smithwick got two voice
mail messages: his credit card payment
was late, and he needed to call two 1-
800 numbers to clear up the problem.

Smithwick doesn’t own a credit
card. He sat down and dialed the num-
bers, determined to set the matter
straight. When a phone sex service
answered each time, Smithwick hung
up.
The next night, Smithwick received
a phone call.

“HelloPearce,”asultry female voice
purred. “This is Kitty. You’ve won
three minutes of free phone sex.”

“As soon as I heard that, I just hung
up,” said Smithwick. “ljust didn’twant
to deal with it.”

Whether “it” was a prank or illegal
soliciting by a phone sex service
Smithwick doesn’t know.

Neither do local officials. Centel
has not had any similar complaints,
said Supervisor Thomas Cavanaugh.
W&L Security and the Telecommuni-
cations Office said the same.

But at least two more W&L stu-
dents say they’ve gotten similar calls.

SeniorTed Elliott received one simi-
lar phone call that night, and freshman
Brooks Harper got three.

,“l said no. Thanks anyway. And I
hung up,” said Elliott.

Hooper said he hung up the first
time Kitty called. She called twice more

within an hour. Freshman Keith Howell
chatted briefly with the woman the
second time she called, said Hooper.
He said she told them Hooper won the
phone sex through a credit card draw-
ing. But Hooper doesn’t have a credit
card either.

The third time Kitty called, Hooper
didn’t answer.

On his voice mail she said, “Brooks,
this is Kitty, and l’ve had fun talking to
you. Please call me back, Brooks, at 1-
800...”

The voice broke into laughter, and
another woman could be heard laugh-
ing in the background.

The only link among the three stu-
dents is the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.
Smithwick and Elliott are brothers, and
Hooper is a pledge.

They discussed what happened and
think it was a prank. They don’t know
of anyone else who received phone
calls from Kitty.

Smithwick doesn’t know yet
whether he was charged for the two
phone calls he made. Some 1-800 nunu
bers roll over to 1-900 phone sex ex-
tensions with huge surcharges, said
W&L Telecommunications Manager
Dana Camper.

IfSmithwickischargedforthecalls,
said Cavanaugh, the person who gave
him the number is guilty of phon5
fraud.

The Telecommunications Office
and W&L Security urge on-campus
students to call them if they receive any
similar calls. Off-campus students
should call the police or Centel.

Martin Luther King celebrated

Postponed event draws crowd to honor black leader.

By DAVID WILMINGTON
Phi Staffiwriter I '

. .\’ _., .'...:/:1

The Minority Student Association presented their
tribute to Martin Luther King Tuesday night at the

First Baptist Church.

The program, titled “A Celebration For the Life of

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,”
consisted almost entirely of student presentations.
Poetry readings were given by Maurice Cole ‘94,
John Rogers ‘95, and Mary Flowers ‘96. MSA Presi-
dent Ayanna Brady ‘95 and Elise Hagensen ‘94 read
original material combined with other poems. Kyna
Bryant ‘96 read a short story by Langston Hughes.
Speeches were given by Michael Hewlett ‘96 and

   

 



 

Jack Thorne ‘96.

The event was sponsored by the MSA with help

from the Board of Christian Education and the VMI

Promaji Club.

 

Promaji Club President Jamel Lynch, a first
classman at VMI, also spoke at the event. Lynch said
the name of the club is Swahili for “bringing people

together.”

One W&L student had a different method for
expressing her sentiments. Tamara Watkins ‘96 sang

h>See KING, page 4

Language Lab
gets 3-year grant

By JAY WHITE
Phi Staff Writer

A $178,000 grant has been awarded
to the Washington and Lee Language
Lab by the directors of the Charles E.
Culpeper Foundation, an organization
interested in technology and language
teaching.

The three-year grant will serve three

purposes: it will provide ﬁnancial sup- .

port for multimedia equipment and in-
stallation costs, faculty and staff devel-
opment stipends, and a collaborative
conference program on language and
technology to be held at W&L upon
conclusion of the grant period.

The grant money will enable the
university’s language instruction pro-
gram to take the next step forward in
multimedia language instruction.

The language lab is under the direc-
tion of P. Richard Kuettner who has
already made the Language Laba leader
amongthe facilities at other liberal arts
colleges. With the new technology,
Kuettner expects to be able to take the
lab into the distant future, as far as
facilities and tools for the education of
students.

“The use of multimedia really makes
the learning of a foreign language an
experience just short of virtual real-
ity,” Kuettner said.

Kuettner also stressed the degree to
which the facilities will be utilized in
the future.

“For many institutions, the equip-
ment isjust a pretty thing to show the
alumni; we actually use it and appreci-

ate it,” he said.

“Washington and Lee has for years
now recognized the essential impor-
tance of computers and advanced video
technology in second language instruc-
tion,” said Dean of the College John
Elrod. “Thanks to the generosity of the
Culpeper Foundation, W&L is ready
to take the next step in the development
of video and audio interactive pro-
gramming.”

The grant advances the work made
possible by earlier grants from the Pew
Charitable Trust and the Mellon Foun-
dation. lt provides equipment and
money for course development. En-
hancement of the consoles with over-
head projection systems and providing
opportunities to do much more with
visual work ratherthan audio work will
be the focus of much of the project.

“As the faculty develop their own
expertise, that strengthens the teaching
program, ” Elrod said. -

The Culpeper Foundation was es-
tablished in 1940 under the will of
Charles E. Culpeper, a pioneer in the
marketing and bottling of Coca-Cola.
The foundation disburses approxi-
mately $6 million a year to activities in
health, education, arts and culture, and
theadministration ofjustice.

This grant will benefit over 45 per-
cent of the student body who use the
Language Lab on a weekly basis. The
Language lab in Tucker Hall is second
only to the Leyburn Library as the most
used undergraduate academic facility
on campus. Plans for the upgrading are
in progress and the work will be com-
pleted over a three year period.

Photo by David Wilmington, The Ring-tum Phi
Jack Thorn speaks at the First Baptist Church in honor of Martin Luther King.

Students raise funds

By BUNNY WoNo
Phi Staff Writer

Students have been helping W&L
by picking up the phone and dialing.

Dialing alumni, that is, for the
university’s Phone-a-thon.

Roughly, $35,000 ub pledges was
raised from three nights of Phone-a-
thon calling during the week of Phone-
a-thon calling during the week of Jan.
24.

That money goes to the university ’s
Annual Fund. Money forthe Fund goes
toward operating expenses, student tu-

 

ition, and other miscellaneous en
penses, according to Maureen Levy,
class of ‘93 Annual Fund Staff Associ-
ate.

So far, $1.6 million has been raised
"forthe fund. The goal is $2.6 million by
June 30.

Phone-a—thon volunteers call alumrﬁ
four weeks out of the year, once in the
fall, twice in the winter, and once in the
spring, according to senior Marguerite
Nielsen, co—chairman of the Student
Development Committee.

Nielsen feels there has “definitely”
been an increase in Phone-a—thon vok
unteers this year.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1994

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

C

Seventeen new students will have the op-
portunity to graduate as University Scholars.
Last year, they might not have had that chance.

An ad-hoc committee chaired by Art Pro-
fessor Pamela Simpson studied and compiled
an 80 page report on the University Sch_olars

‘r PR)gram. The issue was discussed in May ‘93
, and in October ‘93.

Simpson said the program was started in the

:‘ early 80’s when Washington and Lee was all-

male. She said the school had problems attract-
ing and keeping highly motivated students. She

., said the University Scholars program was de-
, signed to keep students at W&L.

She said the program has been successful in

I keeping bright students andin providing a

chance to network with similar students. She
said another benefit of the program has been the
introduction of interdisciplinary studies. She
said the program also led to the development of

‘ Hmors Thesis programs in all departments.

_ She said the question the committee faced
was whether the school still needed an Univer-

sity Scholar program.

“We did agree that it probably wasn’t as
necessary as it had been,” said Simpson.

Professor James Warren, director of Uni—
versity Scholars, said the faculty felt the pro-
gram was no longer needed because each suc-
ceeding class has gotten better academically.

However, he said the committee felt that the
two essential features of the program, which
were networking and the introduction of inter-
disciplinary studies, should be continued and
promoted.

Professor Steve Desjardins, a member of the
ad-hoc committee and a current member of the
standing committee, said there were practical
problems with the program. Desjardins said the
science and math majors have highly structured
curricula, which makes it difficult for a profes-
sor to not offer a course. He said professors had
to teach a University Scholar seminar in addi-
tion to their normal teaching load.

He said the science department also ob-
jected to the name “Honors,” being attached to
science courses because they weren’t really
high—level courses. I

“You weren’t getting a super chemistry
course, just a super non-major chemistry course,

” Desjardins said.

 

Desjardins said most of the objections
stemmed from a perception that the University
Scholars program was biased toward the hu-
manities and social sciences. He said science
majors are not encouraged to
be verbally aggressive which

“We don’t want to let this get out of hand,”
said Desjardins.
Desjardins said the name “Honors” will be
dropped from the program, and seminars will
be created’ from existing sci-
ence courses.

PUTS them at a disadvantage Simpson Said the program
regardingthe University Schol- will be open for more S0phQ_
ars Program mores, and students who make

He said the major problem
the science and math depart-
ments have with the program
stems from philosophical dif-
ferences between the humani-
ties and the sciences.

Hesaidtheadvantagetothe
program is that it provides pro-
fessors with a chance to try
radically different ways to
teach science to people who
are not going to be scientists.

The committee suggested
some changes. Simpson said a
faculty member could determine who got into
the courses, whereas before only University
Scholars were allowed into the seminars.
Desjardins said preference, however, is still

' given to University Scholars.

 

 

 
 
  
  

 

 ta. i1§Ri.. 

 

By DEBORAH ZOLLMAN
Phi Staff Writer

  

 ..§*’a%..~“ii 

Thought you had seen the last of the
controversial Virginia Military Insti-
tute poster “Women out of Uniform”?

Our neighbors in Lexington aren’t
done yet. Their latest pro-male para-
phernalia includes window decals and
bumper stickers.

According to Mike Strickler, head

of public relations at VMI, the bumper
sticker, which reads “Save the Males”,
began at the Citadel and was created by
the wife of an alumnus. The bumper
sticker is not being sold by the cadets,
but is available at Fantasies in Lexing-
ton. The decal, which reads “VMI” and
has the female symbol with a red slash
through it, was created and sold by a
second class cadet. Its distribution was
immediately halted by the administra-
tion and a stiff penalty was imposed
upon the offending cadet.

Left: Second class Cadets produced this poster to raise money for
the junior class ring dance. The poster was recalled by VMI
officials, but is still available in local stores. Right: VMI Cadets
have added more anti-coeducation paraphernalia to their prod-

.. uct line, includingitihe shirt sho
buy bumper stickers. ' -

stickers and decals.

remain anonymous.

them.”

ers don’t.”

here.”

   

Photos by Betsy Green, The Ring—tum Phi.

 

Warren

Cadets voiced similar views about
the new paraphernalia, but all asked to

One cadet said, “I would say that
most people are in favor of them. I like

“It’s the way people are raising
money,” said another. Another com-
mented, “I don’t really pay that much
attention to them; some cadets do, oth-

One cadet got to the heart of the
reason for the stickers, stating, “I can
give you an opinion that everyone has

, “ For over 150 years, this has been

an all-male institution and I think it
should stay that way.”

wn. Anyone interested can also

at least a B+ in two University
Scholar seminars will be eli-
gible for the program.

Furthermore, Desjardins
said it will possible for a stu-
dent to become a University
Scholar and not do an Honors
thesis within his or her major.
He said students will still have
to do a senior thesis.

‘ Warren said there will be a
student interview as well as a
faculty interview.

He said the requirements
for becoming a University Scholar haven’t
changed much. The interviewers look for a
student who will participate in discussion, and
who is good at listening and engaging people in
conversation. He said the student should be

  

PAGE 3 '

University scholars receive new life

able to build ideas in groups and should be
highly motivated and self-disciplined.

“We tend to look for students who have
diverse intellectual interests and who are not
too focused on a particular branch of study,” he
said.

Warren said currently, there are 43 students
in the University Scholars program. He said 46
students applied this year. He also said he sent
out 150 invitations to freshmen who made a
GPA of 3.25 and sophomores who had a GPA
of 3.5 in the preceding term. To remain in the
program, he said all scholars must maintain a
GPA of 3.25.

, He said he has great conﬁdence in the pro-
gram.

“I think the program has a great deal of
potential to foster interdisciplinary education
on campus, “ he said. “The current members of
the program are enthusiastic and are beginning
to reform the program from the inside and make
it their own, which is the key to the growth of
the program.”

He said the program creates a sense of com-
munity and common interests which helps the
program become successful.

“If the students take the program over, the
program will go and go far, “he said.

 

The posters were a fund-raiser for
the second-class Ring Figure Dance.
Cadet Mark Kinser, vice-president of
the second-class and spokesman for
the posters, said that the second-class
has nothing to do with the bumper

I Cadets create paraphernalia, controversy

   

 
 

The 

  

Point of View

Restaurant

   
  
  
 

sh

 

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing

$2 oﬁf any pasta dinner with
° student I.D. 9

Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn
463-7797

rﬁ

  

L

J

- ritﬁﬁrmuirs

W&L Art

We have three

R. E. Lee

Signatures; Two are War Date.

W&L Copperplate, hand—colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

(703) 464-6464

lilllllllll

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington. VA 4450

Open Monday — Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

«um um

     
   
    
   
   
    
    
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
    
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
   

    

    
    
   

an

     
 
   
  

Dublications Board llnterviews

for

The Ring-tum Phi Editor
The Ring-tum Phi Business
hdanager  

Resume and Cover Letters
Due February 25, 1994
to Carol Calkins, University

Center

llnterviews March 7, 1994

   
   
  

  
 

   
  
    

  

 

  
  
    
   
   
  

 

 

INTERNATIONAL
EMPLOYMENT-

Make up to $2,000-$4,000+

per month teaching basic
conversational English
abroad. Japan, Taiwan,
and S. Korea. Many
employers provide room 5:
board + other beneﬁts. No
teaching background or
Asian languages required.
For more information call:
(206) 632-1146
Ext. J S 3 4 2

Lexington
Shop for
Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,

Clothing, and
Accessories

oppugomo

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

\\  
 Alvin—Denn1s, Inc. 
~‘  ’ 23:3
  102 W. Washington St. 
 3“33
gg>I¢>I¢?>I¢i>I<=WINTER CLEARANCE=>I¢32I¢>I¢=>I‘ég§§§
 Suits & Sportcoats 20-50% Off :§"§:
 Rugby & Chamois Shirts 50% Off  
 Top Coats & Outerwear 30% Off 
 Gloves & Sweaters 30% Off E333}
 Rent or Buy your tuxedo for Fancy Dress! 
  Rentals need to be ordered. New 100% Worsted f.‘;§
 = Wool Tuxedos for sale are in stock! 
 Also in stock Fancy Cummerbunds, Jewelry, 
 Tux Shirts & Lots of Flasks! 
 Visa MC Student Charge 
 463-5383 
K}  rec:rtauI54Lyiéuéii§4i?:n£u§u§,.§,,§ ;J“.£: ;: £2‘ 4

 
 

  

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
 

 

For Rent‘

Four 3-bedroom apartments with
washer/dryer, dishwasher; within
walking distance of W&L.
For information, call 463-7690

 

   
      
       
    

The

 
 
   

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIL

  

 

WILLSON-
WA L KB R
HOUSE

R es I: :4 II n I
I
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII .

‘IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII V I

Fancy Dress is a memorable
event, so dine at a
memorable restaurant!

The Willson-Walker House
30 N. Main Street
463-3020

Reservations now being accepted for
' unch and Dinner! Make your reservations
early and avoid the last minute rush!

    
 
 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

PAGE 4

A name change was not enough to rej

College for Women.

 
   

 
 

‘$9

uvenate Southern Virginia

svcw gets  
financial help

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Southern Virginia College for
Women employees, who weathered a
15 percent pay-cut last August, could
have that money restored within two
weeks.

The Board of Trustees of SVCW
last week approved a possible bond
issue that would provide $3.7 million
that could be used to restore cut sala-
ries and benefits.

In another effort to revive the ﬁnan-
cially—strapped two-yearwomen’scol-
lege, SVCW will attempt to increase
its enrollment 30 percent as soon as
next fall.

Under the terms of this bond issue
the bond underwriter, Carter Kaplan &
Co., will lend money to SVCW and sell
bonds for that amount. SVCW will pay
back the money over the course of the
next 15 years. In addition, SVCW will
put up their property as equity for the
loan and pay an equity contribution of
$285,000. The bond issue is still sub-
ject to a current appraisal and survey of
the college’s property and an environ-
mental assessment.

The money from the bond issue
would also be used to pay off long-
term debt and provide additional oper-

 

ating capital over the next three years.

SVCW’s “Campaign for the Fu-
ture” has raised $385,481 in gifts and
pledges toward its goal of $1.25 mil-
lion since it began in October.

“We are turning over every stone to
put Southern Virginia on solid finan-
cial footing,” Chairman of the SVCW
Board Otis Mead said in a press re-
lease. “We want to proceed with chart-
ing an exciting future for the college.”

Public Relations Director Grace
Sarber said over the last 20 years the
college has operated almost entirely on
revenues from tuition, room and board,
which totals $15,600 per student.

The college will try to increase en-
rollment from 190 to 250 students in
the fall of 1994 in order to bring in
more money and expand the future
alumnae base from which the college
can raise money.

“The money from tuition would help
a lot,” Sarber said.

SVCW President Col. John W.
Ripley emphasized the bond issue will
not end the “Campaign for the Future.”

“This only puts our current capital
campaign in the limelight, as it now
becomes essential for the college to be
able to put up the funds required for the
equity contribution, as well as have the
funds required for the current budget,”
Ripley said.

bDUI, from page 1

“l think it’s got a good shot this time
because we’ve got a new group of
people in there,” said Sutton. “And I
thinkit’swhatthecommunities andthe
voters want.”

Sutton hopes the drunk driving limit
is lowered to .08. So do Lexington
Police Chief Bruce Beard and
Rockbridge County Sheriff R. W. Day.

“Naturally I’m going to say I think
it’s good,” said Beard.

The main purpose in lowering the
limit, he said, is to make people aware
of how much they are drinking before
they become intoxicated. He said he
hopes it will encourage people with a

Students honor King’s memory

in» MLK, from page 2

a gospel-style solo with accompa-
niment by the First Baptist Church
pianist.

The only non-student presentation
was by the First Baptist Church Choir.
The program began and ended with
musical selections performed by the
choir.

MSA Vice President Coleen
Thompson organized the program and
arranged for the use of the church.
Events were originally scheduled for
l(ing’s birthday, Monday, January 19,
but were changed due to extremely
cold weather.

Thompson said the program is com-
pletely determined by the student par-
ticipants.

“The program is based on a group

DUI penalities could increase.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4,1994’

lower alcohol tolerance to think twice
before they drive.

Lexington Police Officer G.B.
Coleman said that, on average, two
beers within one hour will raise a 120-
pound person’s blood alcohol level to
.1. Three beers within an hour, said
Coleman, will cause a 160-pound per-
son to blow a .1.

He emphasized, however, that it
varies from person to person, and the
percentage of alcohol in different types
of beer also varies.

Beard said his officers get a lot of
.08 and .09 breathalizer results, and he
thinks there will be a significant in-
crease in drunk driving arrests if the
bills pass. I

In 1992, there were 125 DUI arrests

effort,” said Thompson, ‘‘I don’t have
to approve anything.”

A variety of Lexington inhabitants
attend the annual tribute.

8 ‘‘There’s a lot of students and com-
munity people and a whole lot of pro-
fessors because we give out invita-
tions,” said Thompson. “There’s usu-
ally a big turnout. It was real good last

_ year.”

The attendance was down from last
year but Brady was still pleased. “Con-
sidering that we had to reschedule, I
understand why there were fewer
people.”

Thompson expressed concern that
not everyone realizes the program is
intended for all members of the Lex-
ington community—regardlessof race.

“A student asked me, ‘It’s only for
black people, right?’ Most people get
the wrong perceptions.”

W&L law school
ranks in top 20

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity School of Law has been ranked
19th among the most selective law
schools in the country, according to the
1994 edition of the Princeton Review
StudentAccess Guide to The Best Law
Schools.

The rankings were calculated by
combining average LSAT scores and
GPAs of entering students. The five
top-rated schools were Yale, Harvard,
University of Chicago, Stanford and
Duke. '

Washington and Lee’s high rankings
were attributed to the combination of
W&L’s 13-to-1 student-faculty ratio
and the “enormous accessibility of the
faculty.” ,

According to the guide, “those who
enroll are among the most enthusiasti-
cally satisﬁed law students in America.”

The guide presents a number of
categories in which the schools were
ranked. in the “Quality of Life” cat-

egory, Washington and Lee was ranked
second, after Yale, where favorable
student responses gave W&L high
marks for the “degree of competitive-
ness among students, the ‘sense of com-
munity’ among students and the qual-
ity of relations between students and
faculty.”

The W&L law school was also re'- A

cenily ranked as one of the top 25 law
schools in The Best Law Schools, a
Prentice Hall publication.

The criteria for that ranking were
selectivity, reputation and placement
success.

“It is nice that the law school has
received national attention for its qual-
ity, and especially nice that the atten-
tion is focused on our student/faculty
ratio, the quality and accessibility of
the faculty, our selectivity, and the
quality of life for students,” said Randall
P. Bezanson, dean of the W&L law
school.

“It is, after all, the quality of what
we do, not how we rank, that matters
most.”

at UVA for gifted students 6/19-8/6/94.
State of VA application req. - refer to Job

Counselors for residential summer program

in Rockbridge County and 172 in the
City of Lexington. The city made 150
arrests in 1993. The county number is
not yet available.

Neither Beard nor Day knew how
many of those arrests involved W&L
students. Day said he thought the num-
ber was insignificant. Beard’s estimate
was 25 percent.

Both men attributed the low num-
bers to education, designated drivers
and W&L’s Live Drive program.

Area law enforcement officials may
think that lowering the drunk driving
limit is a good idea, but some students
think it is unnecessary and even unfair.

The same W&L student who was
stopped in October was stopped again
a month later. He blew a .2 this time.

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

He was convicted, fined $250 and he
lost his driving privileges in Virginia
for six months.

He preferred to remain anonymous,
but he admitted to being drunk and
lacking good judgement. ‘

“It was ignorant. Totally. There’s
no excuse,” he said.

But he insisted that was not the case
when he blew a .08.

“l was fine,” he said. “l think you’re
still okay at that point.”

‘‘I don’t think you should (lowerthg
limit).”

Junior Dana Cornell agreed.

“I don’t see a big difference be-
tween .08 and .1,” said Cornell, “ex-
cept that we’ll be seeing a lot more
DUIs.’

I

  
   

Students determined the program for King’s celebration.

ODK honors
students

to ODK, from page 1

Senior Class:
J .J . Ciocca J .N. Hardman
A.B. Cohrs L.C. Howell IV

S.A. Colfrey N.M. Magaziner
R.B. Cornbrooks T.R. Mason

S.L. Crabbe V.M. Shannon
K.S. Dickinson J .L. Townsend
J .D. Guerin L.E. Voekel

A.R. Hackney D.M. Wilmington
Junior Class:
.«L.M. Cavatt
' B.E.’ Henderson

K.A. Herring
P.E. Wright

Simpson to
lecture

Pamela H. Simpson, Ernest Wil-
liams ll Professorof Art at Washington
and Lee University, will deliver this
year’s first in a series of inaugural
lectures.

Simpson’s lecture, “Cheap, Quick
and Easy: imitative Architectural Ma-
terials at the Turn of the Century,” will
be presented Wednesday, Feb. 9, at
7:30 p.m. in the Leyburn Library’s
Northen Auditorium.

Illness -
serious

to Meningitis, from page 1

. ‘c.- I
Symptoms for meningococcal in- ‘

fection are similar to those of the flu:
cough, sore throat, muscle and joint
aches, fever, cold chills and headaches.

A distinguishing symptom of the in- .
- fection is a rash. Horton said they do

not know from whom or how Du all
may have caught the bacteria. is
usually difficult, and often impossible,
to pinpoint the origins and spreading
points of the infection. Shaw said be-
cause the origins of the infection are

difficult to trace, anyone who exhibits I

the symptoms should go to the Health
Center immediately. The Stuiﬂent
Health Center is open 24 hours a day
and can be reached at 462-8401.
Shaw said the infirmary has treated

‘ 35 people with a preventive antibiotic

as of press time. Howison and Shaw
both said the treatment is precaution-
ary and no one else has been diagnCsed
with meningococcal infection.

Horton said Duvall’s infection is
not the same as meningitis, but it is
very serious.

“This is an illness with a high mor-
tality rate,” Horton said. “[Duvzill] is
not out of the woods yet.” .

3.
F

  
     
  
  
        
       
   

  

Catagory Code Ql8AB & return Io UVA by
5:00 p.m. 3/l/94. Apply to UVA Dept. of

Institute of Philosophy

I have to Wear A TUX?

 
 

  
 

  
     
 
     
    
   
   

Katholieke Universiteit Leuven Human Resources, 914 Emmet St., POBox .
F 9007, Charlottesville VA 22906. For more
ounded 1425 info call 804/924-3182. EEO/AA.
FRFIE-TE_._TRlPS:V AND MONEY!! 5 5
write: , individuals and Student Organiza- ' ' ‘N0 pr 0,
p,,m¢i_., P. crawlcyl Director tions wanted to promote the Hottes *
Intcrnatjona] pmgrams Spring Break Destinations, call the .
Iti {Phil t"Id.I -Ca ' '
 "?»§3;‘.2m‘?ﬁ§oo‘i‘;’£7-,,";‘;“S University Cleaners
Kardinaal Mercierplein 2, bus sn . ._ ._ ._ ._ .. ,_ _.' I
B-3000 Le , Bel ‘ ' ‘
Fax: 32-itfgs 53 ginim Seasonal employment Has a Wlde Selectlon of
available as a whitewater Tuxedos for rent
raft guide in W.Va. .

Experience not required.
Must be 19 years old, hav
current CPR and first aid.
Contact North American
River Runners, P.O. Box
81 Hico, WV 25854
1-800-950-2585 EOE

  

$45

FD Special -

A world renowned center for international education in philosophy offerin
complete Bachelors, Masters, and Ph.D. programs. The Institute of Philosophy no
only teaches the history of philosophy, it is a part or’ that history. Located only 25
kilometers from Brussels, the capital of Europe, this is the center of European
philosophy. The lnstitute of Philosophy houses centers of excellence in
piieiioi.1ciioio§y, pa;-’cl‘.oa.':al;~‘:is, ;hiles:phy of language, ancient and
medieval philosophy. Tuition waivers allow students to enroll for a full academic
year for only 17,200 Belgian francs ( 1 S 500). US and Canadian Government
Student Loans available. Courses also available in other subjects to complement
the needs of the Junior Year Abroad Student.

    
   

    
     
  
     
   
     

an d

  

   

      
   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

| EZ—CARD, BOX 16516, ATLANTA. GA 3032 : I
$15"/x Sh : Q '
. ny OW Now you an have two of the most recognized ring '  IwamvIsA°/MASTERCARDQ Cred“ . 1.
_ NOW Showin __ accepted credit cards in the world...VIsa0 and Mastcrard O I
9 credit cards..“in your name.“ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cardsappmved immediately. 100% GUARANTEED!
Gettysburg carznrr or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . . :.
S t & 33")’   VISAO and Mast.-:rCard® the credit cards you I
5“ “Q-atéd PG ' P-'“- deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPAR‘I‘MENT | NAME I
S'I‘0Rl:‘.S—TUITlON—EN'I'ERTAlNMEN'l‘— I I
Rud *="E“°....W.es"-T.e._*ae~..s:;t:“.i~e-..a - ADDRESS I
Daily 7:oo & ego p.m. Ri-:r>AiliiRs‘—ANn ivooggiw voua CREDIT RATING! : CITY STATE _ ZIP :
Satig oS;né_:13 31:, :15, N t d ' ' ' STUDENT? Yes No s_s_# ‘
Rated PG. ' EM ° ""' °"""5' -11 RE i
No" ofhrlnu 2 Audltoﬂum. '0'    :  ¥qM?sla&m is I registered trademark cl Mastcrcud lntcmniloml. Inc. '
ya" chum. Ex”"°n°'m" V\5‘.'”iI““° get‘ _ - ' ' I Visa is a registered tradeimrk olVlSA USA. Inc. and visA lntcnational I
261-7292 SEND THE coupon room; . I
\g275BeechAve.,Buenavisy YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING. L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _g

 

O

. i    
The Riggtum Phi, February 4, 1994 .

_ ho keeps the fraternity ouse in order?

BY KATHLEEN QUIRK
AND

JESSICA ANTONICH
of the Phi staff

At one time or another everyone catches a
limpse of a fraternity ’s housemother. But what
xactl are her responsibili-
es?‘ ow do such friendly

Delta house director Helen Starrett, “and I have
to keep everyone happy.”

Many of ihe housemothers feel they are
getting the best of both worlds. Lambda Chi
Alpha housemother Charlotte Moore said, “You
can act out your motherly instincts without
having to take responsibility. I’m sort of a
motherly friend.”

“They consider me their morn away from
home,” said Crouch. “They treat me really nice,
with a lot of respect—a lot of friendships have

developed. I have two grown
sons, and now I feel like I

dies fit into the fraternity
ene? Through interviews
ith six of the campus’
usemothers (or house di-
.ctors as some prefer to be
"- lled) the mystery sur-
uncﬁng thisjob has ﬁnally
en diminished.

According to Sigma Al-

ha Epsilon house director
atty Crouch, the first house-
iother hired in the
nivei'sity’s fraternity re-
. iSS‘lCC said, house directors first became
iandatory during this renaissance. Since SAE
'as one of the first to renovate, before students
.n uld move in they had to have a house director,
id Crouch.

House directors are seen as an important
cans of support, control and organization for
e h ses. Primary responsibilities of house

irectors include setting-up menus, overseeing
itchen staff and coordinating the maintenance
f the house.

Chi Psi house director Beverly Peters said,
I plan meals, order food and try to stay on top
f maintenance. And if they need guidance, I’m

ere or them.”
“lt s a management/ PRjob,” said Delta Tau

Thomas

have 70 more.”

Starrett and Peters also
talk proudly of their young
men. I

“We do have rules here,
and the fellas are following
them. I‘m very proud of
them. They have an awful lot
going for them,” said Starrett.

“They’re really nice, con-
siderate gentlemen,” said Pe-
ters. “They’re great to be
around.”

\ Pi Kappa Phi housemother Nancy Thomas
notes some of the motherly aspects of the job.
“Many times you have to remind them to hang
up their coats or take their basketball outside-
typical mother things,” she said.

How does one get the position of house-
mother? Starrett summed up the major qualifi-
cations for the job.

“I came from a strong business background,
but the prerequisite is that you have to have
been a mother.”

A highlight of Moore’s interview was when
asked what she would do if a woman was
leaving one ofthe brother’s rooms at 2 a.m., she
replied, “I ’d ask myselfwhat I was doing awake
at 2 am.”

Be

Photo by Betsy Green for the Ring-tu Pi in

Theta Pi Housemother Martha Haley manages to keep up with the

brothers’ antics through the thin walls of her apartment in the house.

PAGE 5

Poto by Betsy Green for th Ring-rum Phi

Sigma Alpha Epsilon housemother Patty Crouch was the first housemother hired underthe Fraternity
Renaissance program. She is pictured here with the SAE house piano, which is useful in calming things
around the house when they start to get out of control. The brothers play it in the evenings, said Crouch.

‘‘It keeps you young at
heart to be with the college-
age kids. I really enjoy
them,” said Peters.

Crouch agreed. “The best
part is working with young
people. It’s very rewarding
to hear from the students
later when they still keep in
touch.”

“It’s a most rewarding
position, just being on cam-

On making the switch Peters
said, “I like it — it’s a very
relaxed atmosphere. I think
youngwomen have entirely
different temperrnents than
young men.”

“It has been a major
change,” said Starrett. “I like
the boys much better; they’re
easier to get along with. No
girl wants to be too much like
her mother, so you get all

pus,” said Starrett. “The ’
perks that every house-
mother has — sporting
events, cultural events, everything is worth-
while.” -

When asked about the worst part of the job,

Beta Theta Pi’s .housemother.Martha, Haley.

immediately-responded it wasthe lack of sleep.
She explains that on party nights it is difficult to
get any sleep since her room happens to be
above the party room. “My walls are also very
thin —- maybe for a reason,” she said. That way
she says she can keep up with the brothers’
antics.

Moore said one of the worst parts of the job
is that it is rather confining. “You always need
to be there. You always have to be available.”

Both Starrett and Peters recently came from
sorority housemother positions at other schools.

Peters

' coming what she has seen at

these girls with conﬂicts with
their mothers and then throw
a housemother in there ——
things can get tense.”

- Starrett credits the Washington and Lee Fra-
ternity Renaissance for keep-

party, I go downstairs and see what the band is
wearing —— they’re always odd. I listen to the
band for a few minutes before I go upstairs.”

Housemothers, through their years of expe-
rience, also have some interesting stories to
recount. Starrett says that at a party not too long
ago she heard a stereo booming away down-
stairs. It was getting late so she started playing
the piano very loudly and within minutes ev-
erything was quiet. She told this to another
housemother who said, “I’m getting a piano.”

Haley tells of an interesting Christmas Week-
end Santa Claus freshman. She looked outside
to see an intoxicated Santa trying to play bas-
ketball without aball and playing Mary Poppins
with his umbrella.

The role of housemother is a rather impor-
tant one.

ing fraternities here from be-

other schools, “one big
mess.” She said she would
like to see similar programs
to preserve and overhaul
Greek systems in other
schools across the country.
The job of housemother,
however, is not all work.
Moore likes to dance at the
band parties. Peters agrees.
“When there’s a band

Starrett

“Although the responsi-
bilitiesofhousemothersvary
from house to house, we
mainly want to be liked and
respected,” Moore said.

Haley says that herjob is
certainly not for everyone.
Perhaps Pi Phi’s house-
mother Nancy Thomas sums
it up best when explaining a
badge she owns which reads,
“I’m smiling because I have
no idea what’s going on.”

Lost In The Supermarket rules campus music scene

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

1992 after his graduation. Drum-
mer Ted Dumas and guitar player
Christopher Holmes joined in June
1993. Holmes is aVW & L senior.
Dumas, who graduated from Uni-
versity of Connecticut and is in

Washington and Lee’s most famous rock band is ready
for bigger and better things.

Lost in the Supennarket is one of the few college bands
that survives graduation. After several lineup changes, Lost
in the Supermarket is ready to move beyond college cam-
pus9s and cover tunes.

Guitar player Dave Klabo, the sole remaining original
member, explained the group’s origin.

‘‘It all got started because the chapter of Amnesty
International here wanted to have a concert outside Lee
Chapel in the spring of ’88. It was a concert featuring bands
made up ofW & L students,” he said. A group of KA’s got
a bzﬁd together, but they needed a guitar player,” and Klabo
helped them out.

“We played for that Amnesty International concert.
Right afterwards, some PiKA’s came up and signed us.
They had us come back to their house later that night and we

played. That was our first professional gig.”
'I'he band decided on the name “Dost in the Supermar-

' et,7bthe title of an old Clash song. “The old lead singer was
ooking through his records for names and decided on that
ne,” said Klabo.

Bryan Patterson, a ’9l graduate, replaced the original
ead singer in 1990. The band settled in Charlottesville
c uring the summer of ’9l. Bassist Andrew Kellerjoined in

File Photo

Lost In The Supermarket band member
Andrew Keller, third from right, sang with
Southern Comfort while he was a student

here at W&L.
O

graduate school at the University
of Virginia, is the only band mem-
ber not to graduate from W & L.

“The more personnel changes
the band made, the more the band
rocked,” said Patterson.

After playing at W & L parties,
the band branched out and played
for other area schools. Lost in the
Supermarket played its first club
after two and a half years of play-
ing at parties.

‘‘It was kind of scary,” said
Klabo. “It’s different from frater-
nity parties. At clubs, you have to
get used to the fact that there may
not be lots of people there, but it’s
not your fault. They may not be as

friendly, either.” _
ine oano that started with a

handful of students has since re-
leased a self-titled compact disc,
which sold out, and a tape, “Ra-
dio,” which is on sale at the W
& L bookstore.

“We recorded ‘Radio’ this sum-
mer. It took us several months to
get it out,” said Patterson. ,

“The name ‘Radio’ came from
when we were in the studio,” ex-
plained Keller. “When we would
rewind the tape, it made the sound
of white noise...We thought if we could put the white noise
in between the song it would sound like switching radio
stations.”

Since its beginning, the band has increased its following,
playing at schools and clubs around the country from
Atlanta to New York City. Touring does have it’s low
points, however.

“The drive to Ohio sucks,” said Dumas.

Touring can at times prove difficult for Holmes, who is
still in school.

“It makes me organize my time better,” said Holmes. “It
hasn’t been too bad. [The other band members] help me out
a lot.”

W & L groupies will be disappointed with the band’s
recent decrease of local performances.

“As far as W & L, we’re not trying to avoid it, but we

Lost In The Supermarket, has been a
Patterson and Dave Klabo playing in the Generals’ Headquarters.

don’t want to play here as much as we did in the fall,” said
Patterson. “We love to play W & L," said Keller, “butthere’s
no point in saturating any market. I don’t necessarily mean
this on business terms. Peoplejust get tired of hearing us all
the time. But we’ve never turned down a gig here.”

Lost in the Supermarket will play at W & L during FD
weekend. The band is currently making the difficult transi-
tion from playing mostly parties to clubs.

“The norm in a club is to hear more originals, so it’s
easier to play,” said Patterson. “At a frat, you can play some,
but it’s expected that you play covers.” They cover main-
stream alternative songs, but not by choice.

“We don’t like to play cover songs. but we have to,” said
Patterson. “If it were possible, we’d play all originals.”

With the tape in the bookstore. the band hopes to get more
exposure for its originals. '

party favorite since 1991. Pictured from left to right are Bryan

File Photo
They now play more clubs than parties.

“You’re not going to be dying to hear our new material
if you don’t know it,” said Patterson.

Holmes explained the song writing process. “Generally,
somebody will come in with a whole song already written.
We’ll work out the ﬁner points. Everybody inputs into it, so
it’s more of the band’s than the individual’s.”

So far there are no deﬁnite plans for a new CD. For now,
the band keeps playing the club circuit.

“It would be nice to have our own record deal and be in
a more secure position,” said Patterson. _

“I’d love to be doing this, for more people, playing all
original music, and making a lot more money,” said Keller.
“Notthat money’s important. I’d rather be makingjust good
music.”

The others have more lofty aspirations.

“We want U2 opening for us.”

    

PAGE 6

Superdance rocks Pavilion

David Allan Coe headlines the show

By HlLLARY OLSON
Phi Asistant Features Editor

front of the Co-op and at Night Owl Music beginning
Wednesday. All tickets cost $10, and as usual, positive
identiﬁcation is required at the beer garden.

W&LIF E

  

0
The Ring-tum Phi, February 4,1994

Country singer David Allan Coe will highlight the17th
annual Washington and Lee Superdance, sponsored nation-
wide by the Muscular Dystrophy Association, this Saturday
at the Student Pavilion. Doors will open at 8 pm.

This singer of “You Never Even Called Me By My
Name,” his first big hit, and “Take This Job and Shove It,’’
is now 52 and has been without a major record label for
nearly five years. He said, however, “We have a wide range
of an audience, doctors and lawyers and college kids. We’re
getting a lot of younger kids these days.”

Back in the late 1960’s at the beginning of his singing
career, Coe used to perform on stage as a masked man. He
called himself the Mysterious Rhinestone Cowboy and his
real name was unknown. “Nobody knew what I looked like,
but what I looked like didn’t matter. It was the music that
counted,” he said.

Coe ﬁnally removed his mask for the first time after
about two years, while performing with his friend Willie
Nelson.

Coe claims 43 albums to his name, and estimates he has
appeared on about 74.

Coe has made appearances in several movies, including
“Stagecoach” and “The Last Days of Frank and Jesse
James” with Willie Nelson, Johnny Cash and Kris
Kristofferson.

He also appeared as himself in several low-budget mov-
ies on the life of Elvis Presley including “The Living
Legend” and “Lady Grey.”

Commenting on his hell-raising image of long ago, Coe
said, “One, l’ve never been a drinker. I have taken a few
drinks in life, but I don’t drink at all now. l’ve never been a
dope user. When I first started in country music, 1 had long
hair and a beard.”

Coe believes he has made an historical impact on country
music. “I think a lot of people today in country music have
been influenced by David Allan Coe,” he said.

Senior Joanna Love, one of the major organizers of this
Superdance, said the monetary goal for the evening is “is to
raise as much money as we possibly can. If we raise over
$20,000, we will be recognized at the next MDA telethon.”

Love said locals from Buena Vista and surrounding areas
have already called to see about ordering tickets. She said
she would be very surprised if the concert sold out, but pre-
sales will ensure W&L students tickets if they want them.
The Pavilion, with a beer garden, has a 1500 person limit,
she said. ’

Webb Wilder will open for Coe. Tickets will be sold in

 

D

with special guest  M

David Allan Coe, a country and musical
rebel, will perform for Superdance on
Saturday at the Pavilion. Coe wrote “’I‘ake
This Job and Shove It.”

Webb Wilder will
open for David A
Allan Coe at the
Pavilion this
weekend for
Superdance.
Proceeds will
benefit Muscular
Dystrophy
Association.
Tickets are
available at the
door or by
presale at the
Co-op or Night
Owl Music in
Lexington.

 

The Haunting of Lenfest begins tonight

Noel Coward's Blithe Spirit, a whimsical, improbable farce of sophisticated wit and
supernatural effects about novelist Charles Condomine whose second marriage is
troubled by the ghost of his first wife. The show runs from tonight until Feb. 10.
Tickets are available at the Lenfest Center box office at (703) 463-8000.

publicity photo

On January 15, 1944 The Columns reported that the
University would be offering to the freshman class of
1944 a quarterly system, which included a six-week
summer session. The new system would also offer gradu-
ation in three years if a student decide to attend the
University only taking the week break at the end of every
quarter, totaling 183 quarter hours.

On January 17, 1969 the Phi ’s .top story was the W&L
basketball team and their win over Navy and their loss to
Florida Presbyterian. W&L’s win over Navy was the first
since 1936. W&L was 12-3, losing only to Randolph-
Macon, Baltimore, and Florida Presbyterian. '

For The W&L Record

Compiled by JAY WHITE of the Phi Staff‘

On January 26, 1984, the Phi demonstrated the W&L
student body’s reaction to coeducation. With 59 percent
of the 798 undergraduate student body voting, 61.3
percent were opposed to coeducation while 36.3 percent 0
said that they would favor it.

On January 19, 1989 the Phi’s top story was the
annual report of the Registrar. The University’s enroll-
ment increased 3.5 percent to 1,990. The report said 67
percent of all undergraduate grades were either an A or
a B, while failing grades accounted for 2.4 percent, a 24— 9
year low. Chinese provided the most A+’s, 28.1 percent,
Russian gave out F’s 10 percent of the time.

 

MPDA Su

perdance

presents

 

{ZOE

Saturday,

W

Dﬁors

Beer

Advance

3

Garden

&L Stude

Open

P

0 S

salesF 1

nd

1'

NightOw.l

February

nt

at

00 p

D

10

day at th

Music

V I B   A,  L  A

Pavilion

B

 

I11

10

requ

Co 0

 

 

O

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4,1994 W  ' PAGE 7

off the mark by Mark Parisi

RATS; I SPLASHED WATER on Piuggers by JeffMa°N¢11y

MY PANTS.’ PEOPLE WILL ‘l}llNl< I... /liiléill ‘
OH, WEl_L...TLL'JUST LAY LOLJ UNTIL ..

    
    

   
   
 
      
    
 
      
 
 
    
      
     

;.—ANO w£'u. §PLiT 

1 we "§3"—90FF PAKT"

_ WHAT'S rue Bic.
\ ' DEAL 2/ Just TELL
ii ‘. -.  2 »Y0ul1 Boss You . X
 ‘r  »_ 6 ‘ ~  oar LOST.’ g
V / \i ,‘ I”,

   

o 2994 ‘lnliunn Mnaia soevims. Inc /rviirwms, inc
1.:

Butt mu. 4.: myiu r...~.:i"’ “‘
“#90 “dill SIIVCII, IIIC

You're a. plwgger if your country has 2.

20 Social insect
21 Attention-getter
22 Cleared the tape

BY

24 Like some teas

©"77/ 444?/(34217//' Winter Olympics team but no winter. is
o 
Colonnade Crossword ’
ACROSS 1 2 "
_ lieu To TELL 11'; DEFINITELY 
1 Robert De -

 NON llllllllll Eire rotate W cm 
.15 Aroma ‘Z
16 Christmas %
17 Game of hare 3 . r_
and hounds. 

19 Advertising light ﬁ‘~'
-.3

3‘

1%

  

 
     
  

 

025 Bridge coup --
26 -— Lloyd . 
Webber __
‘29 Pretentious Z 5 \Vll.=."=
language
33 Uncovered
34 Wharves
35 Period of
note
.36 Surrounded by
37 House feature
38 H1e;1s Sonny in 
“ e
G0df3lh8T" © 4 Tribune Media Services, Inc.  K 
39 Spelling -— I Rights Reserved  
40 sanctum or Last week’s puzzle solved
circle 7 Sewing line 
41 Fountain treats 8 Nav. off. 7
_ 42 Varied 9 Pittsburgh team 
I 44 Head protection 10 Energetic one
45 Twine 11 is sorry
46 Wander 12 Succulent plant
47 Secret 13 Repair
50 A Connery 18 Tore
51 TV alien 23 Charlie Brown
54 Dove sounds expletive
55 Powerhouse in 24 Enraged in
58 :§;’i';f;n°Q'.V_  2§§’,2aﬂ°“‘  rue IT'S A _ = HE'S THE our wuo
‘ 59 Ring stones 27 Nominates ‘ *1 ‘5 RALPH LAUREN’ DESIGN LOOKS Ml 
so Neck hair 28 Wipes l  FAMlllAR- ’
61 Declare untrue 29 Split .
62 Verb form 30 Kingdom
6 63 Urge 31 Miffed
32 Biblical verb
DOWN 34 Like windows

1 Cal. wine valley 37 Warehouse
2 Persian Gulf 38 Serene

me r.~.i.r.r Menu 5(.’\r:Cts :.-.-. Ali P..;:l< iuervu

. country 40 Press 47 Made high 51 Lab gel
3 Fascinated 41 intended marks 52 Comic Jay
4 Grand ——- Opry 43 Playwright Sean 48 Memory 52 A Flintstone
5 Shun 44 Raspy 49 Cereal plant 5 Simian
6 Yearned 46 Film spools 50 Bridge 57 Rascal   1_

 

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination.
Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only.
Within walking distance from campus.
Call 463-3835.

1994 Miss All-American
Teen D.C. Pageant-

Come and join the fun and
excitement;
Teens between 14 and 19 years of

gmég '4

Peazfawzemc

* ii...-'-=}.m

    
  

 
 

,'{_..

LL "*4,"-3
,..:,¥'m;a‘,\\' IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 
   

» /N ~ I” E . :
Saturday Moming- All  Can Eat/Pancakes : Part Tlme  Wanted 5 age°_ You may have the Change to
Dally Specia1s- 24 Hour—A-Day Breakfast : . - win: $5000 and scholarship
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites . Wgrk appmxlmately 20 hrs- per Week : In 1 Id 11 ﬁn _
" Brgakfast Buffet :Opportunity to earn $400 — $800 per month starting: Oney’ a . go Cnfw g
Friday and Saturday Nights 11p_m_- 4 am, : immediately — College Students Welcome ' For more lnformatlon Ca“
r Sunday 9 a.m.- 2 p.m. I C 1] 463.1676 : _ _ _
Rt. 11 North 463-3478 Open 24 Hours 2 ‘ 3 I -_- 1 .800 887 7008
- ’ H i  6 Girl looking for snowjob. Are you the one? Meet me at
_} 6 __ g pi "—--i S V c£:lEi1‘Zl'il:,e1i‘n81z}l:ole_ h d Massanutten! There’s more snowmaking, and more
_ . .   pe ’Furnit7t§*e &$r1;;:i1§S 6 night skiing for those very, very romantic evenings on
‘19 S. Randolph St. the slopes.
V \ LGXII1 ton, VA 5163-2742
is  ,2 fewiLocaja_ion.'
an  6    Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee
E‘   CEIIIET
,_ex,ngmn,wf 9 - Counselors for Summer Scholars June 29 - July 31, 1994
463-9800
Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school senoirs.
I,   Each counselor serves as a resident advisor for 10 students in Graham-Lees
,3 _ orrnitory. .
Comic Books - Buy 5 get a 4th FREE 3 /
, - Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 13 - August 2
sections e A      
V The Office of Special Pro ams em 10 s 4 W&L students to se
a 1 -g‘~ 1”. .—”“S
western   ~ lC1:(())s1tls/hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni
R t - » eges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
en 3 super nlntendo or Sega games for only management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.
$6.00 re ulairl $7.50.
3 ’ g ' y Application deadline, February 28,1993.
Rent 3 regular mntendo $3.00.
Open M0n__Thm_s_ lo a_m_10 p_m__ Fri gl sat 1oa_m__u pm’ glzruggnltigaiggggmation, please contact Office of the Special Programs, Howard
Sun. Noon-10 p.m. ’ .
l"

 

 

PAGE 8

    

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

The real W&L

community

This week three Washington and Lee students had their
house burn down and another student contracted an infection
that could kill him. Both of these situations are the kinds of
things which happen suddenly and completely disrupt lives.
They may not be as devastating to an entire community as the
earthquakes in Los Angeles, but often they have the same
effect. Members of the W&L community are going to rally
around their friends who have become victims of the abso-
lutely unexpectable.

The situtation revolving around Tyler Duvall’s illness has
caused many students to realize how closely our lives over-
lap. Even if you do not know Tyler, you may have been
affected by his illness. Most of us, if not all, know someone
who has had to receive preventative ntibiotic treatments. If
you sit down and think about it, it’s eerie how something that
has happened to someone you don’t know can affect your life.

If anything can be learned from these events, it’s how
important it is for us to realize we are a community in every
sense of the word. But sometimes we function more as
individuals without regard to the larger social organization.
This is where the roots of our apathy can be found. When we
believe we are only individuals and not members of a group
it’s easy to say, “if I don’t do this, it won’t matter to anyone
but me.”

Hopefully, Tyler has shown us how much what happens to
us and what we do can affect others in the community.

The mail snail
strikes again

Once again we are at the point in the year when the Post
Office decides it’s not necessary for them to do their jobs in
any semblence of a timely fashion.

Plenty of students are complaining about how long it’s
taking their mail to get here or go somewhere else. The Post
Office is the epitome of everything negative we have come to
expect from bureaucracies. Every time they raise the price of
a stamp they tell us how much it will improve our service.
Yeah, and next month the Brooklyn Bridge is going on sale
for just $19.95. Do they think all of us are ignoramuses?

Well, if it’s any consolation, we’_ve,had a few ,pro_blem_s, __ ._

with the Post Office ourselves. We don’t know how to fixthe
situation, but we figure there’s only one answer; call to
complain over and over again. Seriously, call the Lexington
Postmaster, call the folks over at Charlottesville, since all our
mail goes through there. Hey, why stop there? Call the federal
government. If enough people complain often enough they
might actually do something.

Maybe it’s all a pipe dream, but we won’t ever know unless
we try. After all, mail should not take as long to get from here
to Texas as it does to go to Beijing and back.

Quotes of the Week:

“Nothing is true just because you believe it to be, and nothing
is true just because you feel good about it.”

—Professor Louis Hodges applies the “John Stuart Mill
Test” to refute the personal philosophies of Peter Pan

“Friends don’t let friends do 90210.”

———a message board in Gaines

..
J‘

Ellis Ewing-him lﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Hillary Olson

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

_ Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

1~ Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

 Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

H Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

5 Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at

if Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi

comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee

= Publications Board elects the executive editorand business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
'_ is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University

 Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My

 Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does

A: not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observescurrenl
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
. Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

9

The Rigg-tum Phi, February 4, 1994

 
  
      

39:15,’ THEY M051’
Wt SPEIJT

or Mot-IEY ONAIW
SAY, D065 W D
KINDA Fort»! t
t-intro

  

  

Don’t vote for North’s opportunism

Last Thursday Lt. Col. Oliver North entered the
race for Virginia’s United States Senate Seat. This
action ended over a year of speculation by observers
that North was preparing to run for political office.

Now the questions turn to his
chances of both winning the
nomination of his party and

the seat itself, presently held
by Democrat Chuck Robb.
North has already at-
tracted heavy criticism from
members of his own. party .
for entering the race. The
GOP is rightly concerned that

 

PATRICK
McDERMorr'r
’94 I

North’s background and ex-
treme views have the poten-

tial of severely damaging the credibility of the party
as a whole, much like the candidacy of David Duke
(former grand wizard in the Ku Klux Klan) for gover-
nor of Louisiana. Both David Duke and Oliver North
carry the kind of baggage any party, especially one
that is seeking to recapture the White House, would be

more than eager to avoid.

Without going into the complexities that surround
his case, North served as a key member of and was
indicted for his involvement in the Reagan
Administration’s lran Contra Scandal. He has openly
admitted his role in the illegal diversion offunds, from
the sale of arms to Iran to the Contras of Nicaragua.
North also admits later lying to Congress when ques-

tioned about the situation.

All ofthis hurled the former Marine into the media
spotlight, gripping the nation with days oflive nation-
ally broadcast hearings before a special congressional
committee. Since that time, North has found a new
home for himselfas the darling ofthe ultra-right wing
of the Republican Party, touring the country giving
speeches and forming a coalition of support. Now he

wants to be a United States senator.

In an intriguing twist to North’s announcement,
conservatives have been mounting an impressive
effort to ensure his defeat in the Republican primary.
John Warner, Republican Senator from Virginia and

considerable economic
base (he has already
raised well over $2
million) and his fright-
ening level of support
from the ultra-right
wing ofthe GOP, he is
positioned for a win, at
the very least, on the
primary level. This
should be a disturbing
realization both to citi-
zensofthisstate aswell
as to those of us who
are “just visiting.” Af-
ter all, if North were to
win the Senate race, his

American citizen.

W&L Class of 1949, railed against North last week,
calling him a “criminal” and noting that the only
reason his conviction on the charge of “lying to
Congress” was overturned was because of a “techni-
cality.” Additionally, con-
servativesineditorialsacross
the. state have denounced
North as being unfit for the
office he seeks. Matthew
Franck, a Fellow with the
Conservative “think-tank,”
The Heritage Foundation,
decries North as, “a political
privateer who proﬁteered. . .a
deceiver...(a) muddle headed
intelligenceoperative...(and)
a coward.” Not exactly ringing endorsements from
two fellow conservatives.

An editorial I recently read warned readers to
beware a candidate whose slogan seems to be “Vote
for Me — My Convictions Were Overturned.” And
yet, political analysts tell us that due to Mr. North’s

is seeking an office.

the reasonable members of the Grand Old Party see .
Mr. North much as I do, not as the voice of their
party but as a political opportunist. I have faith that
they realize as I do that anyone who has shown such
a blatant disregard for the laws and Constitution of
this country has no business serving as a United
States Senator. I have faith that they will not even
allow him to move into the general election, but,
will instead cast their votes for Jim Miller, who can
at least take pride in the fact that he has never been
convicted of lying to the very institution in which he

Perhaps it is a sad example of our media domi-
nated society that two people can be seeking to
represent their country in the same week and have
such totally different outcomes, despite their situa-
tions being remarkably similar. We have all watched

with dismay and horror (and a little annoyance at

the repetition of our media) as the Tonya Harding
scandal has unfolded this week. Ms. Harding has
not even been charged with a crime, and yet her
chances of skating for her country in the Olympics

seem slim. Americans

decisions would have an effect on the lives of every

Despite this possibility, I remain optimistic. Al-
though I am a “die-hard” Democrat, l have faith that

Although I am a “die-har ”
Democrat, I have faith that the
reasonable members of the Grand
Old Party see Mr. North much as I
do, not as the voice of their party
but as a political opportunist.

are rightly outraged at
the fact that she was,
in any way, involved
in a criminal action
and now seeks to wear
our flag in the Olym-
pics. Pollsters have re-
soundingly reported
the feelings of the na-
tion that Ms. Harding
does not belong on the
Olympic Team. And
yet Mr. North, a con-
victed criminal, is hav-
ing relative success in
the early stages of his

run for the United States Senate.

I cannot help but wonder if Tonya might be

considering giving it all up and running for the U.S.
Senate, after all, it seems to be working for Ollie.

Smoke-In to protect our rights

There is a certain group in the
United States that is the victim of
unjust discrimination: that group
is smokers.

Nationwide smokers have been

The question has still not been an-
swered: why are smokers given the cold
shoulder nationwide? The only reason I
can think of is that it is bad for them. As
if smokers don’t realize that smoking,

 

thrown out of even when
airplanes, res- they Started,
taurants, and was bad for
offices; and them. This,
before you C'F' notwithstand-
non-smokers KUCERA, mg, political
cheer, think , correctness
about if some 97 has become
other group the rule ofthe
was barred dayandsmok—

from hundreds

of establishments, simply because
of their lifestyle, a lifestyle that
includes smoking.

What has spurred this backlash
against smokers? Certainly with non-
smoking sections there is no serious
health risk. So what else could cause
such a public outcry to stop smoking
nearly everywhere?

The most recent rally—cry for the
non-smoking advocates is the immi-
nent danger posed by second—hand
smoke. For the sake of argument, let
us suppose that second-hand smoke is
the greatest danger posed to the West-
ern world (though its health impact
has not been conclusively proven): so
what? That is part of the reason non-
smoking sections were established.
For non-smokers the smell can be
offensive. Smokers are constantly rel-
egated to the proverbial “back of the
bus;” if only Rosa Parks smoked.

ing doesn’t fit
into the acceptable behavior handbook;
thus, according to the health Nazis,
smoking must be stamped out. These
people have taken it upon themselves to
deem for us what is health and what is
not, and once that decision is made, that
which is not must be stopped at all costs.

Forquite awhile W&Lstudents were
safe from this health persecution. This
may not be the case any longer though.
Last week, as reported in The Ring-
tum Phi, a recommendation was sent
from the Student Health Committee to
the ‘Student Affairs Committee to
change the smoking policy in campus
eateries. The biggest impact of this
proposal will be the complete ban on
smoking in the Co-op.

If passed. this ban will not only be
unjust, but perhaps even more impor-
tantly, will completely change the at-
mosphere of the Co-op from one where

‘ the air, though filled sometimes with

smoke, is clear with the freedom to live
one’s life the way one wishes to one
where the air is filled with subjugation
of the Student Health Committee.
This proposal was spurred by a pe-
tition signed by 70 law students. This
hardly represents the whole W&Lcom—
munity; besides that, how often does
one see law students in the Co-op? The
plan is then backed-up by a survey
conducted in November. I personally
don’t remember such a survey, and I
wonder how scientiﬁc it is, and what
the response rate was? Consid-
ering the success
of surveys at
W&L, I doubt the
findings represent

time to contract lung cancer from sec-
ond-hand smoke. The proposed ban
then isclearly a measure aimed at bring-
ing political correctness to W&L and
imposing the will of a select group
which seems to know much more about
what is good for me than I do. it’s time
to stop the paternalistic attitude of the

‘ Student Health Committee.

So the question comes down to who
is with us and who is against us? Those
who are not in favor of protecting the
rights of smokers on the Washington
and Lee campus are against us. This is
a campus which
places a high
value on personal
and intellectual

9

the whole of freedom. Let us
w&LvS opinion The proposed ban then not let {hag slip
Let us look at is clearlyameasure aimed from °Urﬁngers-
the realit of the - - - - . lnthe interest
C0_OpSmf’aﬁ0nf0r at bringing political cor- Ofpersonal free_
amoment.There is I'€CtTl€SS t0  IVS time dom I Urge all
3 "°"'S‘“°k‘“g to stop the paternalistic at- W&L S‘“d°"‘S’ ‘
section in the Co- . Whether you
0p,]a1-geen0ugh,[ tltude Of the Student smokecjgaj-cues’

would think, to ac-
commodate the

students who abso-
lutely detest
smoke.

The length ofany one trip to the Co-
op rarely exceeds 30 minutes. The C0-
op is not a full-service restaurant; stu-
dents go in to grab a soda and a sand-
wich or a bag of chips. This length of
time, even over a four to five year
tenure at W&L, is not nearly enough

Health Committee.

cigars, pipes, or
nothing at all, to
join the Smoke-
ln today in the
Co-op. This
project, led by Donald J. Skelly, Jr.,
will demonstrate that W&L students
do not want a band on smoking in the
Co-op.

The Smoke-ln will begin this
afternoon at 4 and end when smoking
will not.

 

    

  

0

‘he Ring-tum Phi, February 4,

1994

   
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
    
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
 

Pos’ SPACE
‘ Tom Hespos

- Just when you thought it was safe
~ throw a random Saturday night
ind party...

Two weeks ago, Spos outlined the

ivarﬂages of having a single, cohe-
ve Greek system with free beer for
1. Last weekend, free beer and asense
unity among the fraternities at Delta
au Delta’s Mekong Delt party were
aquestionably advanced to the fullest
gree. If we could have only done
meghing about those Lexington Po-
ce officers.
Lost in the Supermarket played un-
I about 2:30 a.m. That was when the
en in blue decided to make their
pearance to shut the party down and
ake the usual arrests for D.l.P. and
.l.P,— you know the routine. But it
idn’t stop there.

Officer F.W. Smith decided that he
idn’t particularly like Delt’s taste in
arty-room decor (yellow cinderblock
centuated by hanging road signs). In
ny case, the fuzz came in and conﬁs-
ated a bunch of traffic signs that had
een.procured” by Delt pledges be-
re Spos even decided to come to
' &L. The cache of signs included one
at prominently displayed “Southern
eminary Junior College” in attractive
flective letters. For obvious rea-

sons, this is a collector’s item and can-
not be replaced.

As Spos understands it, several other
fraternities on campus have had to deal
with the same embarrassing situation
— having their old road signs pilfered
(or re—pi1fered, as the case may be) by
the local law enforcement. This prac-

“offending” fraternity.

This purpose was evidently sewed,
as several of the partygoers report-
edly heard F.W. Smith exclaim
“Woo Hoo! We got ’em!!!” as he was
leaving the party. Thanks, F.W. —
from the bottom of Spos’ heart. As
a token of my undying gratitude,

tice is nothing F-W- Smith, 1
short of fascist hereby bestow
B.S. and j?"-"  -——:— upon you the
should not be official “Spos’
tolerated Several other fraterni- Space lfgn0r:-

“But S os,” - mus 0 t e
you are grob- tles on campus have  Month Awar .”
ably asking to deal with havmgthezr Congratulations,

yourself, “isn’t
stealing road
signs aviolation
of the Honor
System?”

The answer
to the above
question is a re-
sounding “yes.”
However, the
signs taken from
Delt were sev-
eral years old,
having been. swiped by Delt alumni at
some point in their undergraduate ca-
reers.

The point is this: once the signs
have been taken and have been
serving as decorations for years on
end, the only purpose served by
confiscating them is to tick off the

 
   
    
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
    
   
 
    
    
     
    
   
  
    
    
  

V 0 the editor:

nwanted children — in fact, Catholic

regnant women.

hoice to have a child easier to make.

" o the editor:

Sincere appreciation and thanks are
-xtended to all who participated in the
' 994 Lip Synch Contest.

To the members ofthe 25 acts who
)erformcd, the student volunteers who
avorkzd security, made decorations,
_ orked concessions, provided public-
ty, worked the spotlight and acted as
oster child — thank you.

Thanks to the judges who hung in

I ﬂould like to respond to Ms. Clarke’s opinions
xpressed in last week’s column because I believe
1 at some of her ideas were misinformed, and some
ere arguments without any basis in fact.

She states that Pro-Lifers are not looking after

oanoke has a backlog of couples who are trying to
.dopIchildren. Part of the frustration in the adoption
rocess as regulated by the federal government is the
ed-tape and waiting period for childless couples.
4 hen the private sector is involved, the process is
treamlined, and couples are put in contact with

The adoptive couple is able, as much as possible,
o assist a woman financially and emotionally, through-
ut the pregnancy. Any mother giving her child away
‘an be comforted knowing that her child will find a
ving and caring home. The real problem is that
tpinions like Ms. Clarke’s are given more attention
han the reality of an organization trying to allow the

Ngrturing Network is another alternative to abor-
ion. Any pregnant woman, who wishes to carry her
regnancy to term, will be financially, emotionally,
nd medically supported until the birth of her child.
f. Patrick’s Church in Lexington, for example, hosted
t woman two years ago —- she was given a home to
ive in, a temporary job, doctor’s examinations and
)re- A tal care until she gave birth and gave the child
0 Catholic Charities’ Adoptive Services.

To give another example, ifa W&L woman found
erself pregnant, wanted to give her child up for
doption, did not want to remain in Lexington, and

Charities in

American community.

1960]:949).

there duringalong evening, to Randolf
Hare, Bobby Davis and theircrew from
B&G, to Mike Young and his security
staff, Bob Dunlap and his conces-
sions staff and certainly the enthusias-
tic spectators who came out in droves,
we couldn’t have succeeded without
all of you.

Greg Lynch filmed the show and
will soon have tapes available for sale,
with all proceeds going to RARA/MS.

old road signs pilfered
(or re-pilfered, as the
case may be) by the local
law enforcement. This
practice is nothing short
of fascist B.S. and should
not be tolerated.

LETTERS

Rethink the consequences of Roe v. Wade

wanted to continue her education, arrangements are
already in place for her to transfer to Davidson Col-
lege until she feels capable of returning to Lexington.

“Choice” is a word used repeatedly in the discus-
sion of abortion, and there are two: to choose life or
death, blessing or curse. (Dt. 30:19)
individual’s right to choose what to do with their
bodies, as Roe v. Wade and others proclaim, then I
don’t for the life of me, understand how the public
should have to pay for the individual’s choice, which
is the logic being considered in the Clinton health
plan. When abortion is used as a birth control method,
to eliminate an inconvenient pregnancy, or because
amniocentesis indicates the presence of XY chromo-
somes, such a decision affects all aspects of the

There are no statistics regarding the number of
deaths which had resulted from back-alley abortions
prior to Roe v. Wade. For decades priorto its legaliza-
tion, “90%-of abortions were done by physicians in
their offices” (American Journal of Health 50 [July

Because the procedure was illegal, doctors didn’t
report deaths from abortion. Statistics are also mis-
leading today because women continue to die from
abortion — maybe they don’t die “on the table,” but
some do die from hemorrhages, hepatitis, and other
complications which result from the operation. There
are suppositions and fantasies that many women
would die as a result of tighter restrictions on the
availability of abortions, but that has not proven true
in Pennsylvania, for example, in which the Casey
decision was significantly restrained.

One factor which really has not been given much

big guy.

1 Now that the
road sign issue
is out of the
way, we can talk
about the pleas-
ant details of
Mekong Delt:

Top Ten
Cool? Things
That Happened
Last Weekend:

1) Teemu
Selanne of the Winnipeg Jets tore up
his Achilles tendon and won’t be play-
ing hockey for a while. Actually, this
isn’t funny and it didn’t happen last
weekend, but it’s worthy of mention.

2) Spos jammed with Last in the
Supermarket.

3) LI TSM guitarist Chris Holmes, in

L‘ ‘ex cops cap off a great weekend

PAGE 9

a questionable state of mind at the time,
left his very expensive Les Paul on the
stage after the party. This was quickly
whisked upstairs.

(Chris — come by anytime after
5 to pick it up. Don’t worry —
it’s safe.)

4) Girls from Mary Baldwin drank
something Spos concocted known as
“Agent Orange punch.” People keep
asking me what I put in it, but l’ll never
tell. (Heh-heh)

5) One fraternity brother threw up
on his bed and decided to sleep in the
mess after throwing some clothes on
top of it.

6) Another passed out on the toilet
and had to be carried to bed after an
impromptu photography session. M

7) Mark Van Deusen was there.

8) One Delt dressed completely in
black and covered himself so thor-
oughly in camouflage makeup that
when standing in the darkness, he
could be identified only by the glow of
his cigarette.

9) Spos went to Lee-Hi at 3 a.m.
with some of his fellow Phi editors and
another friend,just for the unparalleled
experience of the $4.99 Cholesterol
Buffet Special.

10) A 31-year-old captain from VMI
got hauled off for public drunkenness.
(Actually,'this isn’t cool, but it’s damn
funny.)

Until next time, may yourbeer never
go ﬂat.

If it is an

the U.S.

media or local attention is the emotional health of a
woman afterthe abortion, or “post—abortion trauma.”
There are many carrying the baggage of emotional
scars as a result of aborting a child -— somewhere
deep in their conscience, the reality about the pro-
cedure of the suction, scraping or other abortive
techniques can be profoundly disturbing. Last
year, a week after an abortion, a fine young woman
called me in tears and cried, “What did I do to my
baby?!” Despite my attempts at consolation, she is
still upset when she sees babies on commercials or
in movies. Women Exploited By Abortion (WEBA)
has 30,000 members in more than 200 chapters in

Project Rachel is another therapeutic group, and

is located in Roanoke. If abortion is only a medical

procedure, like a root canal or a tonsillectomy, I
wonder why there are no ongoing support groups
for those “surgery survivors?” Could it be that
abortion takes a toll on women. that other surgeries
do not? Could it be that other surgeries do not stop

a beating heart?

MC John Turner was great, kept the
show moving along as well as kept the
crowd ﬁred up.

Most importantly, however, “put
your hands together” for 1994 Lip Synch
Chair Beth Provenzana and her com-
mittee of Lawson Brice and Kit Dodds.

These folks worked diligently, be-
ginning last spring, in planning this

'year’s event.

The show went off absolutely with-

 

Interviews and Photos
By Betsy Green

Sincerely,
William C. “Burr” Datz', ’75
Catholic Campus Minister

TALKBACK

 

Abortion is too often presented as a quick fix to
an inconvenient situation — the real problem with
much of our modern society is the difficulty we
have with the consequences of some of our deci-
sions. Abortion is a tragedy and a national disgrace.
It is time that we face up to reality, statistics and
facts, and reconsider the far—reaching implications
of Roe v.‘ Wade.

, SAMS advisor thanks Lip Synch volunteers

out a hitch, due in no small part to their
efforts. Everybody had a great time.

All proceeds will be donated to the
Rockbridge Area Relief Association
(RARA) and the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society.

Sincerely,
Jerry Darrell
SAMS Advisor

Manager

Needed ASAP: Manager for the
1994 Women’s Lacrosse Team. If
interested, please contact Jan
Hathorn at ext. 8668 or Sue Behme
at ext. 8679.

Alumni

Applications from members of
the class of 1994 who wish to be
considered for the Alumni Staff
Associate position for the 1994-95
academic year are due by Monday,
Feb. 28. Graduating seniors should
submit a letter of application and
resume to Alumni Secretary Jim
Farrar at the Alumni House. The
Staff Associate position becomes
available July 1, 1994. Personal in-
terviews will be scheduled upon
receipt of applications.

Pictures

Seniors: You can still sign up for
senior pictures for The Calyx! Si gn-
up sheets are in front of Carol
Calkins office in the University
Center. Any questions? Call The
Calyx office at 464-4046.

Ariel

The Ariel literary magazine is
now accepting submissions for the
1994 issue. Literary submissions
may be dropped off in envelopes in
Payne Hall, the Leybum Library
and the University Center. Any vi-
sual art submissions should be left
forTemple Cone, c/o Carol Caulkins
in the University Center. Deadline
for submissions is March 11.

 

Kathekon

Applications for Kathekon will
be available in front of Carol
Caulkins’ office in the University
Center beginning Monday, Feb. 7.
All rising juniors and seniors are
encouraged to submit an applica-
tion and sign up for an interview.
Deadline forturningin applications
is March 1. Interviews will be held
March 8-10. For more information,
pick up a packet in the University
Center.

Support

A confidential counseling/sup-
port group for women students with
eating and/or compulsive exercise
problems will meet on Tuesday af-
ternoons beginning Feb. 8. Call the
Counseling Service at ext. 8590 or
the Health Center at ext. 8401 to
sign up and receive additional in-
formation.

Ride

Goingto Columbia, South Caro-
lina on Feb. 10 or 11? Call Ralf
Thiele at 462-4713. Will pay for
gas.

Leaders

Sponsors of a national leader-
ship conference to be held in Wash-
ington, D.C. are seeking outstand-
ing women to participate in the
1994 “Women as Leaders” pro-
gram. Women students may call
(800)486-8921 for information on
availability of applications. The
deadlineforsubmittingapplications
is Feb. 15,

letter of apology.

4) Conduct probation.

Student Body Notice

The Student Conduct Committee found a male senior in violation of
_ university standardsfot making threateningphone calls‘.t'o the fraternity
house mother and general disorderly conduct for urinating on the door of
another fraternity house. The following sanctions were imposed:
1) $25 ﬁne for not showing up to the original hearing.
2) 25 hours of community service for the phone call as well as a formal

3) $25 fine and 6 hours of community service for urinating on the
fraternity house, as well as a formal letter of apology to the fraternity.

, Coeducation Review
Committee seeks ideas,

To the editor:

The Coeducation Review Commit-
tee requests for the third (and last) time
comments about problems or concerns
related to coeducating and ideas for
improving the environment on
campus.

If you have had experiences that
you think should be known, or if you
have concerns that you would like con-
sidered, PLEASE send your signed (or
anonymous) comments to: Prof. Nancy

Margand, Dept. of Psychologyy

nmargand@wlu.edu; Prof. Tom Will-
iams, Dept. of Physics:
williams.ht@wlu.edu; or Dan Felton,
’95, 464-5297: dfelton@wlu.edu.

The committee is looking at admis-
sions issues, campus life, athletics, aca-
demic programs, and faculty and staff
issues.

Please remember, if you do not share
your ideas, they may not be repre-
sented by others. Thank you.

The Coeducation Review Committee

Layout By
Joe Framptom 

What qualities would you like your first
  Fancy Dress date to have‘?

Steven Frame, ’97, Atlanta, Ga. —
“Somebody who can spit farther than

I can.”

 

 

anything.”

 

Kaj Kirkman,’97,Greensboro,N.C. Roderick Carmody, ’97, Tampa,
— “Physically attractive and muscu-
lar, but he doesn’t have to be Arnold or

New Orleans, Chi-O.”

Fla. —“Blonde hair, green eyes, from

up on the dance floor.”

 

Alison Simmons, ’97, Memphis,
Tenn. — “A hot stud who can shake it

attractive.”

 

Joel Symonds, ’97, Princeton,
W. Va. —“She should be fun and

half a week.”

gr

 

Amy Jones, ’97, Richmond, Va. 
“Someone who’s fun to be around for‘;

9

SP The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1994. .

 Hamsieerer 
Standings as of 01/31/94 A A . ‘
Leading Scorers I  _

    

PAGE 10

Leading Scorers

  

  
 
 
 
  
  
   

 

   

Player Pts P

Player P“ P Vir ‘n’ Y 151 18%

Cam Dyer 258 15% san%‘m‘i4o?.§2gs 139 933 . REDUCED PRICES 9
Mat.‘ Newton 155 3-5 Nicky Mayfield 108 7 2

£12.31: Ezziiiiy 1:13 3:3 §g"a‘“§f°{‘e"ba°h 93 40 HOUSE OF RAEFORD

Derek Carter 136 8.0 Ma:r:,nTa;11kZaI,I:1ann 79    7

Jon Coffman 141 7.8 Stac will-am 69 5'3   .. .. » 1

Robert Miggins 137 7.6 AmyyVOgt1 S 26 5.2     r ’

Allison Hull 49 323   ' 2 . 9
4o       5“  
oz.    4' 4' -2 ~
Leading Rebouﬂders Leading Rebounders  In I  ‘ ‘ ' ‘'

Player  Avg  R b A   ‘  '/,,‘,l%-'L ., I I‘. V , ’ ‘ I .
Robert Miggins 112 6.2 Sa2T1);1erIa Holmes 187 7V1g %  I . » "i . .~~

Cami? er 90 5.3 Nicky Ma field 89 5'9 1  - ’ ' * ' -.

Derek arter 87 5.1 Mary Tan am 30 5:3   ix. - I  L ' ;

g‘har‘i’; ggﬂgjffy 2? ‘$5 Xifégﬁaﬂﬁfrg Z3  _ HOUSE OF RAEFORD ‘.27. I «r~

J0nC0ffman 38 2.1 Stacywilljams 43 3-3 GRADE ”A” SELF-BASTING .

M3“ Newton 34 1-9 Karen Stutzmann 42 3:2 T

LIMIT 2 WITH

ADDITIONAL
F"ee'thr°W Stimdings Free-throw Standings PURCHASE
Player Ft/F ta AV Player Ft/F ta Av

    
 

  
    
  

  
    
 
  
 

 

      
 

    

 

       

 
      

   

 
  
 
 

Derek Carter 26/29 .89 Virginia Yoerg 43/64 .67

Jon Coffman 37/48 .771 Amy Vogt 4/6 .667

Egb_ertCMiggins 37/53 .698 Sarah Aschenbach 3/5 .600 ~ .. . .  

ris ouzen 39/57 .684   ,  ’
Mark comeny as/59   .644 §:’;;“v%‘::i:.".:.:““ 13/32 :28?  A    » A » »  ., msii TEMPLE 5/ 100
I<\3/Iaarﬁ Ilglgvrton =31};/gg  E/¢i1ndraFH<i(Im§‘s 25/42 .581 ..._ -* “.1 ORANGES ............. ..EACH
' “V 3“ 3‘ 13/28 -464 RED on BLACK SEEDLESS -
- Nicky Mayfield 24/57 .421 ‘ ' ' 5
  GRAPES ................ .18.‘
8't'i.‘tttttttt‘E"  14°
. . . . . . . . . . ..U3.
4 . .. -‘   BIUEBERRIIS BIIICKBEIIIIIES 9'
Wrestling “    "     I .     I/2 PINT
Records ., __ _.  V   _“,_‘._  , .,:m_..:-. 
W h. d Le ..  z.-‘:' . :1. ‘-'4 , .  *-">._‘AL  '.

/1:\l(2I2)1/r‘i1rBranson 11113-C6Ord 11§Yt126 a';e:‘lI§t1(i:°2:’lI’d5 e   . 9
Anthony Raﬂa 3-2 126 (updated for 02/03/94) -

Eric Shirley 10-5 134, 126 , . .

Rob de Clerk 2-8 134 W°m°“,5 Swimmm 5-3

Adam winiams 8-6 . 142 Women s Basketbal 8-7 '

giary gansei 3-6 142 miséllgg, ; 31-431

t 7_9 wimmin -

052:, sgith 5_11  Men’s Basketbal 7-11 6   D Q
Lea Abercrombie 5-8 167

Colin Loomey 9-9 . 177 Overall 27"-28 0

Cole Van Nice 14 ‘

  TN GREAT VALUE
. GREEN GIANT DIET COKE OR
VEGETABLES   COKE '
CELLENT I ‘ _
EXTRA INCOME NOW!    ready or Fancy Dr
.::E;::::2:.:‘::: -‘  -      4  Ballroom Dance Class  A
...'2‘2;".:f;°.::;;".°;.... I with   2 “R ‘
Brooklyn, New York 11230
Frank Roupas  °
. . /  .
in Fairfax Lounge 3 » -.
' . I , ,
G R E E K S 8, CLUBS I F 4 T W I 5 A §t?c"£.‘{étt'ét¥i‘ -
‘ ox rot a tz win ..
EARN $5o—$25o ’ ’ g WEEKLY SPECIAL . ‘WEEKLY SPECIAL A
 Wed. Feb 9   ———————————-— —-——-~——-—*
nlus 6 _ 7 8 ANGEL SOFT SPARKLE DESIGNER
aiscr costs nothing
 A P“ 0’ Pm BATH rIssuE PAPER rowEi.s~
and lasts one week.  per  I
Call now and receive , ,
..miz.. 4 Come with or without a partner
1-800-932-0528E L65.
‘ (703) 344-2114 5137i; 2
4 tax.’ 61.8 "  
SQ. Fl’.

 

17 S. Main St. Lexington, Va. 24450

463%, Mm _ Sat 9.30 _ 5.30 HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERYDAY

After Inventor Sale _ , A
y iiisibiiii's°€ii5icr 'I"5'IE”"° “E” 49
S O N J

   

Sweaters $7 and up DRINK cREAM I 2 mm
Men’s Pants $999’ Reg. $60 4 HT SELECTED VARIETI/ES
Knit tops $3 and UP   ORANGE ‘'09 QUAKER INSTANT 225
Ladies pants 8: shirts $5 and up JUICE 6402. OATMEAL u,.‘2’bz. "
Plus 30 - 75% off our already low prices Rssuum oR COOL MINT mm:ow-BAKERY-siicivio ORDER

- - - - 97 DOMESTIC SWISS 75
Arriving this week - Swim Wear! 6  323% 3 E B.

S 0 O if $0   if BE 22“
Zwmg 72$ § @TZf@2ZZpg:/y @ (Wm @ Prices Effective Through February 8, I994

Prices in This Ad Ettective Wednesdoy,Februory_2_ Through Tue day ,Februory 8, 1994 In Our Lexin ton Stores
Oniy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None SOI To Dealers. We Glodly Accept e era food stamps. .



  

    
 

  

‘he Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1994 _  S PAGE 11

' II’ gnu hnutn Fnugritt sp9rt5- Sophomore Pyer named‘
wriltrﬂthlﬁl   January ‘Major General’

  

. I
if gnu renllg cnre .       t t
‘ ""' ""' ‘ ' By KEITH GRANT . , ~ ' n . _ V ‘ ,— t
P/iiStaffWriter — V ‘ G _‘ '  
nliout MEL nthLEtE3 .   A       
' " 1 ‘ " 1' Among the Washington and Lee
men’s basketball team’s many prob-
. lems last season was consistent scor-

in .

The 1992-93 Generals’ scoring
leader wound up the season with a
scoring average of 10.6, the lowest
average for the Generals’ team leader
since records first were kept in 1948.

This season, a sophomore from Tega
City, SC, has solved that problem. With
six regular season games remaining,
Cam Dyer holds a 15.2 points-per-
game average, tenth—best in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

’ In January alone, Dyer averaged 16
points and 5.6 rebounds. In doing so,
the 6’7” forward earned the WLUR—
Ring-tum Phi Major—General Award
for being W&L’s athlete ofthe month.

Anyone who has attended a General
contest this season has witnessed the
sweet 15-foot baseline jumpers which

-ll’ gnu kllQlll lllhQl_E1ll ﬂlcindnr is ‘yP¥t.?t:;’:t:t"L:

him from his All-State days at Provi-

°IF gnu Finil gnu kngii mgr: than  
Egsins EIQES.

    

- dence Day High School in Charlotte,
      N.C.ThechangeinDyer’sperformance
' "' ' ‘ ' ' this season is his aggressiveness.

Some added bulk and the type of
.  aggressiveness that the entire team has

_ J displayed shows in the increase in
Dyer’s rebounding.

As a freshman, Dyer pulled down
an average of fewer than four rebounds
per~game, not what everyone might
expect from the team’s second-tallest

«I99 3ll9l_1l[l DE writing spgrts in‘ he

year’s team.
- “lt’s been a lot more fun playing on
‘I-hf  the team this year,” he said. “lt’sagood

team feeling; last year, there just wasn’t
the feeling that we have now.”
. ’ The sophomore went on to express

his satisfaction with the team’s togeth-
erness.

u “We’ve got a lot of chemistry, and
H]    - it’s the kind of chemistry we need to
‘ " ' ‘ ‘ ‘ finish strong,” he said.

Through 17 games played, Dyer

D . mt ranks second for the Generals in re- in — A A _ V

. $1”  ‘ Q‘ bounding at 5.3. He grabbed a season- -' -~ '    “ 
high nine rebounds to go with 1 8 points

in the first game of the new year, an

 .. -,_,,-_,-.  .2...   -3...... ”p5°"“"" °"e’ Amherst‘ Sophomore Qam Dyer reaches toward thebasket in one of his many leading moments on the . ..

“seen aftéf, th“é”‘s'6phomore had’ a‘ , ~  v -— -   - - . ‘ ...-I. 1!}; A»  ,5
foupgame Stretch in which he aVer_ Generals basketball team. He has been chosen as the January Major General. 5 N ‘ .

. 0 ' Uf 0 fl 0 i‘ ?§i‘3..‘.f"§’ "?.L“if Z“"3Ji§2”2‘”'?°.§fn'l
C-"fl"-'.   I-E  galine vgrsuls Li/nihtburg and 2122-Eoint - q’ ke /W 1‘? U 12 _ Q  (D 

0 . performance against Catholic, both
ncpwjy W&L victories. _
‘ ' " ‘ Dyer,whose fatherand grandfather   avva-VA

File photo

-,1:

attended W&L, closed out January
shooting 61 percent for the last four_
«J games, raising his overall shooting per-'
centage to one.of the conference’s best
. ‘( at .505. That’s quite an improvement
 from last year’s .423 percentage, when
. ' he averaged 8.7 points.
Half Salon As the team approaches the end of
' the season, Dyer voiced his opinion of
the team’s chances.

  
  

.¢o/ma/nvlm
go/M374/a e/M Jﬁzm//724.4, mm
fﬂdoér/o

  

.../..... _ 4 -

cuts -tl;l§ll‘lilIl‘gh-ts - lII(la-nicllres .. 9 3 awzyre trying to turn the program W /4? 
.  ma e “P _ . around from the way it’s been the last 0/up/17/’ /5 1
Expert braiding (french twist, three years,” Dyer said. “We’re pretty ( , -
' '“ fishbone, etc.) happy withthe strides we’ve taken this /(zdﬂﬂ/0%’?/6 W].  (/I/044 
V year, but we’re by no means satisfied.”
Q FD Tanning Special . Asthe Generals enterthe stretch run anua
A . 10 for $30 in the race for berths into the ODAC _ 0
T , D H b H d ,/
zororsso A..‘:.*:;":.'%::";...y$t;..:..::;..:.::3 W"/‘M93 Jim ‘"~W*‘"”
high-arcingjump-shot against W&L’s_
I 7 S. Randolph Street, Lexington conference foes. Fortunately, it seems,
464-1145 DYCVS level Of Play is Peaking at the “Ike /Yv\a}ev' Gum.-..t is clsoscvx wxovstkly lay S.-at. Gain-t ma l'<.¢tt:k Grant

most crucial time for the Generals.

 

    
       

, SPRINGBREAK Groups! Clubs!
we g  packages’ PROMOTE 0“ Raise up to $500 to $1500 in less
campus 01‘ SIGN UP for than a week. Plus win a trip to MTV  T V 
‘7éwz¢.- zawlcw Ewe rooms. Daytona, Panama 5prinsTi_$|?rr‘«iaret=l]<l;:;%fe‘=,r:«1c3«l=-it"; FREE Y law 8’
;,> 7”’- 7466“ gwwﬁ saadw City $129 and up. Cancun. 1_8o0_950_1039 ext. 65 HARDWARE smnes

    

Sat: 7am zeepaatda.

,,5,.,8",,.,.4 ,4gg 54,,“ In 3 at Earn is 500 - $1000'weekly stuffing Kmss creek House For Rent Hardware: Paint: and.Related"1tenlS;
. . 9%.“ $3 my: ggessé gar details - RUSH $1.00 Clean, 4 Bedroom,  1/2
7t«W= '6 4“ M ‘‘’‘‘°’ ‘‘‘‘”'7‘’ ' GROUP FNE Jgflteh-1§t8(;,0I/Tlnflj-ffgvrflllg/b&;fL Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. sun. 1-5 p.m.
57 GreentreeDlZr:\ép’, §Eiit1e9.’38z can Tom 464_8628 E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

Overl00 . 9 M S _ 4 ix
Valentine Cords  11711071 ,. i .. ‘ . . f -, . .
* it - “Out with the old -

    

 

Voodoo Dolls 
to Cost 0 Spell Run ;  In with the New”
New Silver Eorrin s - .  . ' ‘ ’
Wind-UD g giriuisﬁesurltumnt .5 ‘i _l' I 0 id rht  a I e
. e tewa prepares aiycuinary eig s   A.
Valentine TOYS Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef llouladen, g g *5‘ 20% Off all regularly \ 
Massage 0“ R lPaell]a,dant<i Hjomemaﬁle TF0flt€:'|'l'- Fm Dmg , priced Basketball Shoes
5' n , incu cs wo acuzzi sui cs. u s rvice 1 1 I _
Candles D;{O(C))l'(I)1n}ll.l€[:l with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect 2 1  Off all BaSeball/
setting for Holidays, Luncheons. Special Occasions. > 1  Shoes /.

Tuesdays- International Menu Night

Q i . I Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine ' S .
 %  Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle” : it ‘ First Team Sports
Special Winter Package A _ 115 W. Nelson St.

Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00

 Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol. Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

1
m

 

  

Last Week:

WBB-—W&L 80, Mary Baldwin 22
MBB—W&L 76, Emory & Henry 72
Wrest-Def. Gallaudet, lost two
Swim-M&W def. Franklin&Marsha1l

PAGE 12

  
 
  
 
    
    
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
    
 
    
     
 
   
   
   
     
    
    
 
    
 
  
 
 
     
  
    

S

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

action.

points.

outcome of the meet.

      
    
  
  

    
  

meet as well.

Both swim teams rebounded from losses the previous weekend to
post convincing victories against Franklin and Marshall in dual meet

The Washington and Lee men defeated F&M, and continued their
home winning streak, by the score of 141-49. The score was
surprising in that the Generals won the meet last yearby a meager five

Washington and Lee coach Page Remillard was pleased with the

“We swam the way we thought we would, and they didn’t swim
the way we thought they would,” said Remillard.

Remillard was ambivalent when asked about the lopsided score.

“The problem is you can never predict what’s going to happen,”
he said. The Franklin and Marshall squad swam the day before the

Freshman Nathan Hottle swam two season best times in his two

@112. ilting-tum Iﬂlﬁ

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

  

Emo

   

File photo

Senior Robert Miggins lays one up against conference rival Roanoke. The Generals are oh-so-‘close to
qualifying for post-season play after failing to qualify last year. However, Washington and Lee has
already won more games this season than the team won all last year.

wins in the 200—breast and the 200—lM. Sophomore David Stillman
also posted two wins in the 50- and 100-free. Overall, the Generals
set ﬁve season bests in winning all eleven events.

The women also turned in a strong meet, and were aided by the
absence of a national qualiﬁer on the F&M side. A number of
Generals contributed lifetime bests in the meet. Jill Sheets had three
lifetime best times, and Anne Spencer, Marina Vasilara, and Susan
Fisher all had two as the team won eight of eleven events.

Rebekah Prince, Staci Bertelli, and Jen Miller won two events
each for the Generals. Prince’s two wins (in the 1000-free and the
200-back) came in season best times. Jill Sheets’ time in the 200-
breast was also a season best for the generals.

Despite the recent success forthe Generals time-wise, coach Kiki
Jacobs was not concerned with peaking to early.

“With tapering, they should be very well rested by the end ofthe
year,” said the women’s coach.

The Lady Generals also ﬁnished a weekday meet against confer-
ence rival Hollins last night. The Generals dominated the meet,
winning 167-84. The W&L team closes out their home season on
Tuesday against Mary Baldwin.

  
    
   

This Week:

MBB—Eastern Mennonite 02/O5
WBB—Midway, 02/05

Wrest—at Apprentice Invit. 02/05
Swim—at Mary Washington 02/05

FEBRUARY 4, 1994

ry Henry

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor 9

 

The line between success and failure is sometimes little more than
a few games, as the Washington and Lee men’s basketball team has
discovered during a recent slump. The Generals hope to qualify for
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament for the first 'me
since 1990-91 . They will be doing that with teammate Tyler Duvall
off the court for now, but certainly on their minds (see page one).

The Generals are scheduled to host Eastern Mennonite Saturday
night, Feb. 5, at the Warner Center in a crucial conference game. The
Royals are still winless in ODAC play (0-11) and are currently the
only team trailing W&L in the standings.

The postponement of Wednesday’s game at Virginia Wesle an
leaves the Generals’ mark at 4-8 in conference play, 7-11 overall.
Fortunately, the two teams resting ahead of W&L are teams the
Generals have beaten and have a game remaining against. Lynchburg
(5-6) stands one-and-a-half games ahead of the Generals, while
Virginia Wesleyan is merely one game in front of W&L.

Roanoke (10-1) was overtaken in the standings this week by
Hampden-Sydney (11-1) as those two continue to dominate the
conference. 0

Oddly, only three games separate third from ninth place in the
ODAC.

Whereas last season only ﬁve conference wins were needed to
qualify for the post-season tournament, a minimum of six and
possibly seven victories will be necessary this year with so many
teams bunched together.

ln W&L’s favor, the team has a total of two games versus Eabtern
Mennonite ahead, in addition to the contests with Lynchburg and
Virginia Wesleyan.

The Generals have not played since last Saturday, Jan. 29, when
they were defeated at home by Guilford College (6-8 ODAC). The
79-68 loss was their second straight defeat following a key win at
Emory and Henry (6-7 ODAC), 76-72.

The losses came in spite of some recent big-play by the sqi§id’s'
big—men.

Junior forward Mark Connelly had a team—high 18 points in the
loss to Guilford. Connelly, sophomore Cam Dyer (see related story),
and senior Robert Miggins have stepped up their play as the team hits
the stretch run. Miggins has blocked at least one shot in each of the
last 10 games, while Dyer has shot 61 percent from the field over the
last four. .

Washington and Lee as a team has out—rebounded its last four
opponents by a 15-rebound-per-game average. The three big—men
are a key reason for that.

in games last week, Connelly, Dyer, and Miggins combined to
average 38 points and 19 rebounds, up considerably from previous
action.

Following the Eastern Mennonite contest, the Generals are sched-
uled to host Lynchburg Wednesday, Feb. 9, at the Warner Ce ter.
They close out the regular season on the road during the school’s
February recess. -

  
  

   
 

   
  
 
     

  
 

     
    

J OCKSHORTS

Men’s, women’s swimming Victorious _

/ﬂﬁ

    
   

Wrestling

    
    
  
    
   
 
      
  

The Washington and Le
wrestlers suffered two heart
breaking losses at the Gallaude
Quadrangular last weekeiﬂ.

The Generals lost to York an
Gettysburg before picking up
win against Gallaudet.

The losses to York an
Gettysburg were by the scores 0
27-21 and 26-18 respectively.

In the Gettysburg med, th
Generals trailed only by tw
points before losing the fin
match, and against York the
were tied at 21 before forfeitin
the heavyweight match.

Sophomore Cole Van Nic
and freshman Adam Bransan fi -.
ished the day with 3-0 marks.

All three ofVan Nice’s VlCt(.

  

  
  

    
      
 
    

  

/7///

    
  

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHENWILLIARD

The Super bowl is now be-
hind us, and unfortunately, this
one ended much the same as the
last ten: with the National Foot-
ball Conference on top. The
game was notwithout high-
lights, however.

My favorite moment of the
game came when NBC went to
an aerial view from the airship.
One must remember that the
game was being played in the
Georgia DOME. I did see a
very attractive roof, at least.

The award for best commer-
cial of the game goes, hands
down, to Nike.

The shoe mogul enlisted
Steve Martin, Michael Jordan
(surprise), Bulls coach Phil
Jackson, and Charlotte Hornets
center Alonzo Mourning in a
Geraldo Rivera style discus-
sion. The topic? Did Michael
Jordan fake his retirement. At
least I had something to laugh
about each quarter as 1 failed to
win any money in my betting
pool.

Coming in a close second in
the ad contest was the “Dan
Quayle” commercial for Lays
potato(e) chips. There is just
something touching about see-
ingtheex-Vice Presidenthawk-
ing rufﬂed potato chips.

In the actual game, Buffalo

 
  
 
  

matched the Cowboys play for
play for a half and led 13-6 at the
break. Dallas stormed back with
a fumble recovery for a touch-
down and never looked back,
winning (in case you were on
Mars and don’t know the score)
30-13.

Don Bebe showed once again
that he plays with more heart
than probably anyone else in foot-
ball. The Bills wide-out on two
different occasions almost turned
public sentiment in favor of his
team. On a Jim Kelly pass that
was overthrown, Bebe dove out
for the ball, and missing, landed
on the Astroturf, ﬁnally getting
up with bloodied arms from the
impact.

On another play, Bebe caught
the pass, then took a tremendous
hit from’ a Cowboys defensive
player as well as some trash-
talking.’ Bebe made no response
except to head back to the huddle.

Emmitt Smith also deserves a
hats-off for his Most Valuable
Player performance. Smith has
played his last four games with a
separated shoulder. Despite the
injury,Smith rushedforwellover

100 yards and contributed two
touchdowns.

Now, forthe most second most
important sports event of the
year—the Duke vs. North Caro-
lina basketball game in Chapel
Hill (fortunately, unlike the Su-
perbowl,thisoneis usually close,
and happens twice a year, some-
times three times).

   
   

ries came via the pin.

CaryHansel,fillinginforca
tain Adam Williams, gave th
Generals a boost with a wi
against Gettysburg.

‘SuperSlaughter’ ends up as re-run

This one was taken by the Tar
Heels 89-78. The Devils led 40-
38 at the half before UNC, play-
ing once again without leading
scorer Donald Williams, took
over and played up to their pre-
season expectations. Basically,
UNC must have cheated some-
where, I’m sure.

Parting Shots-

By the way, in case you were
wondering, the most important
event of the year is the Atlantic
Coast Conference tournament.

YES! Tell me NOW that
Tonya Harding is not guilty,
Sarah!

For a swim meet that was sup-
posed to be close, the W&L vs’.
Franklin and Marshall contest
was, well, interesting. Both the
men and the women beat F&M
like narcs at a biker rally.

Just in case you’re wonder-
ing, spring training for baseball
is just around the corner (right
after the national championship
preview in the ACC tourney).

The Houston Rockets have
begun their fade to the ﬁnish in
recent weeks with a losing record
since opening the season with a
22-1 mark.

Once again, MICHAEL
DON’T PLAY BASEBALLHI!

Edit0r’s note—T0nya
Harding ’s accusers have yet to
bring anything but circumstan-
tial evidence against her, and the
United States Constitution gnar-
antees citizens innocence until
proven guilty.

 
  

Adam Williams is out forth
year with a broken wrist. Wil
Iiams suffered the injury in th
Washington and Lee lnvitationa

Eric Shirley ran his win strea
to nine matches before losin
against Gettysburg. ‘ .

Also, Van Nice,with histhre
pins has garnered eight for th
yean

Van Nice’s eight, leads th
team in that department by thre
over Adam Branson. Van Nic
also leads the team in wins wit
14. '

     
   

      
 

  
   
   
 
    
 
  

 
 

  
       
   
 
     
   
     
   
       
          
 
       
    
       
    
   
    
 
     
     
   

 

%(my/mltIﬁz-
ﬂu/mt [0 (game.
 (2/J/m
"}’//ad/21/'2/Iy//1‘:/1*et
mm’ (Z20 fam-
ﬁetfa//l(a(z12tz«, .
 A///c;/'01

(, .
>9/(mt!/((1//M1)
17701/I//ﬂ  .

(7(tnt(a/eg/.
ewkaae tee

-We/» /were / {-

 

  

 

