  U112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Welcome Back Alumni

”

8(C-SR!

  They’re Here

Check 0
Com

ut The
ics

Mm

ﬁUllUK l

v

arr

OL ME 93, NO. 05

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 8, 1993

  C clashes with SBA, Pub Board

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

IIQ1 move led by Executive Committee Vice
1' resident Jimmy Kull, the ECconsidered slash-
rig the Student Bar Association’s annual allo-
ation by $13,000 at this week’s regular Mon-
.-ay meeting.
“I think we’re coming dangerously close to
aving the law school separate from us,” said
C Qcretary Ashby Hackney, during the heated
r. rgument that ensued after Kull’s motion.
Kull prepared a ﬁve-page ﬁnancial break-
-c own of the proportions of student activities
ees used by the SBA, which funds all law
chool clubs and activity groups. Kull’s report
a utlined, among other things, the proportion of
l omy that goes toward paying for “frozen
unds”— funds that all W&L students must pay
'nto, such as the Pavilion fund and the EC
' eserve Funds.

According to Kull’s report, law students pay
$10 toward university-wide activities, while
undergraduates pay $70.65.

In order to have law students “pay their fair
share,” Kull proposed cutting the SBA’s fund-
ing, which was tentatively approved at the EC’s
budget hearings, by $13,000. Kull’s motion
failed.

“You could go through and attack every
little detail in this budget,” said SBA President
Patricia McNemey in the ensuing argument.
“You’re strapping us, basically.”

McNemey said the School of Law has a
different social setting than the undergraduate
side of the campus.

Law Class Representatives agreed.

“We depend on our organizations to provide
a social setting,” said EC Law Rep James
Rambeau.

Hackney said many undergrads pay addi-
tional money for their social settings.

pay their own social fees,” he said.

Other EC reps suggested that the SBA could
raise its membership fees in
order to ease the need for EC

the EC compromised on a figure of $41,883, a

figure $5,000 less than the allocation made

during the budget hearings.
Due to the adjustments in

funding. Kull suggested a
remedy of raising SBA fees
from $20 to $56.

“Thirty-six bucks is a big
chunk of cash,” said
McNemey, adding that many
law students are “living on
loans.”

During one point in the
argument, Second—year Law
Rep Kevin Webb suggested
that if the $13,000 cut were
approved, the SBA should
considerseparating from the
EC completely, a notion that
EC President Bob Tompkins
referred to as “blackmail.”

Kull

the budget, the EC had to de-
fer ﬁnal approval of the bud-
get to its next regular meet-
ing. Under the Student Body
Constitution, the EC must ap-
prove the budget twice, in
consecutive meetings at least
a week apart.

The EC made an additional
adjustment to the budget by
replenishing the Publications
Board Reserve Fund.

Through a budgeting error
years old, it was depleted by
$5,700 in an unconstitutional
move on the part of the EC.
Tompkins produced a copy of the minutes

which allocations to clubs were made out of the
Pub Board Reserve Fund.

“Your constitution says that the EC cannot
do that,” said Pub Board Advisor Brian
Richardson.

The EC unanimously approved a motion to
reimburse the Pub Board and simultaneously
reduce the allocations of the publications under
the jurisdiction of the Pub Board by 17 percent.
These publications include The Ring-tum Phi,
The Calyx, The Journal of Science, Ariel and
The Political Review. V

Tompkins said the purpose of the reserve
fund is to pick up any debts incurred by the
publications under the Pub Board’s jurisdic-
tion.

Tompkins said the EC’s move allowed
them to solve the budgeting error constitution-
ally, without hurting the publications.

“The money’s still there,” he said. “They’ll
just have to take it out of the Pub Board Re-

“A lot of [undergrad fraternity members] After more than two hours of deliberation, from the EC’s October 7, 1991 meeting, in serve.”

Q

Cadet receives
  racial threats



Photo by Melissa Wolf, special to Te Ring-tum Phi

A freshman completes his “tear” at a fraternity house Friday. Six rushees were hurt on Tear Night this year.

240 men pledge houses

THE SNAG

Pledges Actives
o 25 29
2443
24 41
2° 51
. 1831
18 34
i Kai, 19:. °
17  2
1645
’maamamw

I
I2

" s lI"Iii ID>eﬂ<:a Tilnetai 48
6 ,\ .\ /‘\ 14
2 ﬂl 15

Pledge statistics as of Tuesday, Oct. 5, obtained from the Dean
of Students office. Active totals provided by the Registrar’s office.

By NANCY PAvLovic
Phi Managing Editor

Fraternity Rush officially
ended last Friday, Oct. 1 but not
before it added 240 men to the
ranks of Washington and Lee
University’s 16 fraternities.

Of the 254 men who went
through rush, 94.48 percent
pledged, or joined, a fraternity
during Tear Night Weekend (Oct.
1-2). Unlike last year, freshmen
men did not choose one or two
houses in disproportionate num-
bers over the other houses.

“Only 2 percent of the people
who didn’t go through with it,
either got a bid and decided not
to accept or didn’t receive a bid,”
lnterfraternity 1 Vice-President
Ryan Donaldson said.

Chi Psi got the largest pledge
class this year with 25 freshmen.
Delta Tau Delta received the few-
est with only two pledges. Pi
Kappa Alpha and Sigma Phi Ep-
silon followed close behind with
each getting 24 pledges. Last
year, the number of pledges per
house ranged from 3 to 40.

1 According to Donaldson this
year’s pledge classes are “more
equally distributed than in year’s
past.” But, Chi Psi President John

#1

Hudson cannot believe pledge
class sizes are being described as
“evenly distributed.”

“The numbers are right in front
of you and they’re still saying it
was evenly distributed,” Hudson
said. “But you still had houses
getting great numbers and houses
getting killed.”

Hudson, nevertheless, is
pleased by their performance this
year and attributes much of their
success to being back in the fra-
ternity house. During last year’s
Rush, the Chi Psi house was still
under renovation.

“It made a world of difference
being back in the house this year,”
Hudson said. “It was kind of hard
last year to expect a freshmen to
tear at a fraternity when they
can’t see the house and what it’d
look like.”

Delt has both the smallest
pledge class of the year and the
smallest fraternity on campus.
Counting the two new pledges,
Delt has 17 members, seven of
whom will graduate this spring.
Until this fall, Delt had been on
suspension since January 18,
1992 for vandalizing their frater-
nity house. House President

I» See RUSH, page 4

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Virginia Military Institute cadets are angry and
scared this week after one cadet received racial
threats and the school administration brought in the
FBI to investigate.

A member of the first class at VMI received
three threatening letters, two of which had varying
degrees of racial overtones.

The cadet, whose name has not been released
but has been identified as a black athlete, received
the first letter a little over a week ago. The letter was
printed from a computer within VMI and said,
“You’ll be next.”

The second letter was subtly racial, but defi-
nitely threatening bodily harm, and the third had
definite racial overtones and was also very threat-
ening. Rumors that this was a death threat have
surfaced, but are unsubstantiated by sources close
to the situation.

Some sources inside VMI believe this incident
may be linked to a problem about four weeks ago,
in which a black fourth—classman, or freshman, also
an athlete, was involved in two or three confronta-
tions with upperclassmen.

First class member Zack Scott explained the
situation.

“Usually, when a cadet swings at another cadet,
he’s thrown out,” Scott said. ‘‘In this case, he was
only penalized.”

Evidently, the rat had initiated a shouting match
and had been in at least one physical fight. He was
not conforming to the rat line well, and the consen-
sus was that he did not like VMI from the begin-
ning.

Shortly after his penalization and the subse-

quent uproar within the student body, many of
whom felt he was being “protected” because he
was an athlete, the cadet withdrew from the institu-
tion.

The OGA, a committee of cadets called Pri-
vates, which is the internal court system for the
corps and usually handles problems such as harass-
ment and threats without the administration’s in-
put, was not asked to be a part of either case.

The first letter was taken as a joke by the first-
classman, but the second, more threatening one
was publicized to the coaches and first class mem-
bers at VMI. The third prompted the administration
to address the Corps of Cadets.

“Threats to or assaults upon any cadets, whether
racially motivated or not, will not, shall not, be
tolerated,” said Major General John Knapp, VMI
superintendent in the address.

Knapp also said that the initiator of the notes, if
and when he is caught, will be summarily dis-
missed, and his name will be turned over to the
police.

Cadets and administration believe the culprit is
a cadet or group of cadets, largely because of
limited access to barracks.

Scott, who is also a black cadet, believed that
race relations at VMI have changed over the years.

“When I was here five years ago, there was less
of a racial tension,” he said. “In the past few years,
I have noticed adefinite change in the level of racial
undertones.”

Scott felt the victim was picked out for threats,
not because of his relation to an earlier incident, but
because of his position in the institute.

A source close to the victim of the threats said
that the first-classman was “pissed off and con-

bsee VMI, pag£10

mt \iu)I  " I I

41-

   

O
The Ring-tum Phi, Octobe»r_8_,_1993

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World

China resumes nuclear tests

China conducted its first nuclear test in over a year on
Tuesday. The Clinton administration announced that it “deeply
regrets” the test and may resume nuclear testing next year.
The Chinese government announced that it would only halt
testing after accepting a comprehensive test ban treaty.

Russian Parliament building
shelled: as rebellion is crushed

Russian army units loyal to Russian President Boris Yeltsin
shelled the Russian Parliament building on Monday, leaving
dozens dead in a 10-hour battle. Anti-Yeltsin demonstrators
had vowed to hold the building until death, but were captured
in the battle.

Earthquake in India
destroys villages

An earthquake measuring 6.4 on the Richter scale hit India
last Thursday, levelling many villages. Survivors are over-

whelmed by the Vast number of dead, totalling more than
16,000.

The Nation

Clinton administration reviews
new Somalia policy options

President Clinton met Tuesday with advisors to discuss
new options for his policy on Somalia. Seventy U.S. soldiers

were killed in;,Somalia on Sunday after being pinned d,.<;yy,_r,1M,

in Mogadishu. ‘Since then, other U.S. military personnel
have been killed, including five soldiers when two U.S.
helicopters were shot down

U.S. Attorney opens case
in World Trade Center bombing

U.S. Attorney Gilmore Childers opened the prosecution’s
case against the four men charged with bombing the World
Trade Center in February. Several pieces of previously
unpublicized evidence were introduced into the case.

Ginsburg takes bench
in new Supreme Court term

Ruth Bader Ginsburg, the second female Supreme Court
justice in history, took her seat on the bench Monday, as a
new term started for the court. The docket of cases,
coincidentally, has several women’s issue cases scheduled

J oey. Buttafuoco pleads guilty

Joey Buttafuoco pleaded guilty to rape charges Thursday,
admitting that he had slept with an underage Amy Fisher at
a Long Island motel. Buttafuoco had previously denied any
sexual contact with Fisher. Fisher earned the nickname
“The Long Island Lolita” after shooting Buttafuoco’s wife,
Mary Jo.

Report forces ‘two ATF
officials to resign

Two hi gh-ranking ATF officials resigned after a report on
the raid on the Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Texas
accused them of lying and misleading the public. Daniel
Hartnett, an associate director, and Edward Conroy, a deputy
associate ATF director, both quit Saturday.

Sports

Michael Jordan retires from the
NBA

Basketball star Michael Jordan retired from the NBA on
Wednesday. In his announcement at a press conference,
Jordan said he had lost “the sense of motivation and the sense
to prove something as a basketball player.” Jordan denied
that the shooting death of his father had anything to do with
his decision.

NEWS

Phi Delts make “a big mess’

Leroy “Buddy” Atkins was called out
to see the mess by Phi Delt faculty
advisor Joseph Goldsten. Atkins de-
scribed the situation in the house as
“[the] kind of mess you would expect
from four-year-olds who had been
drinking.”

“They just made a big mess,” Atkins
said. “I don’t think they did any perma-
nent structural damage but it was a
pretty childish way to act.”

The fraternity was brought before
the Interfratemity Council’s Judicial
Board which referred it to the Student
Affairs Committee, IFC Vice-Presi-
dent Ryan Donaldson said. All cases
involving a fraternity come before the

  
   
        
   
   
    
  
     
    
    
         
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
    

nothing in the house was broken.

“All those rumors are totally un-
founded,” Guice said. “It was just a big
mess.”

Phi Delt Housemother Mata
McGuire attempted to stop the broth-
ers at one point, but returned to her
apartment when they refused. The fol-
lowing morning McGuire discovered
the ﬂowers and ﬂower pots in front of
her door had been destroyed. In light of
the previous evening, McGuire then
quit as housemother.

Guice said no member of the frater-
nity was responsible for this destruc-
tion but that it was similar to an inci-
dent which had just occurred at Sigma

“First and foremost will be to dete
mine who is responsible,” Atkins sai
“If it is only a few brothers or if t :
house is responsible.” 0

Because the SAC must give t .
fraternity a week to prepare for t
hearing, the earliest date the SAC coul
hear the case is Friday, Oct. 15.

The evening before the mess ..
made at the house, Phi Delt received i
second Rush violation. According t
Donaldson, several fraternities turne
Phi Delt in for taking a group of fres
men to Hollins College.

“We got handed in before we eve
left,” Guice said.

Phi Delt was placed on social pr

By NANCYPAVLOVIC
Phi Managing Editor

You may have heard about it, but
you probably heard wrong.

Last weekend, Phi Delta Theta be-
came the topic of rumor mills across
campus as news spread of the disorder,
slovenliness and chaos which was
wreaked there.

Sometime late Saturday evening,
Oct.2, several Phi Delt brothers de-
cided to dump the contents of the house
cereal dispenser, mix it with chocolate
syrup and spread it throughout the
kitchen and dining room PhiDeltPresi-

dent Billy Guice said. Shaving cream Alpha Epsilon. The SAE IFC before any decision is made. Ac- bation for two weeks and receiyed
wasalsosprayedonthewallsandnews- housemother’s plants were also de- cording to Atkins, before any punish- $2,000 ﬁne. Their two week soci
papers were strewn across the walls stroyed. ment can be decided the culprits will probation will end on Saturday, 0c
and ﬂoors of both rooms. Guice said Dean of Students for Greek Affairs need to be identiﬁed. 16,

,  '/ p 3 ,- - . . . . .

By BUNNY WONG ‘ elf =4‘  - 1 . ’
Phi Staff Writer — ,4 .; «*2?

Need someone to talk to?

Washington and Lee’s peer counselors can help.

Composed of 28 W&L students, the university’s
peer counseling group offers an open ear to students
with concerns ranging from stress to homesickness
to homosexuality.

“My dream was that we would have a group of
students trained year round to provide a service to
W&L students,” said Dr. James Worth, university
psychologist and founder and director of peer coun-
seling at W&L.

“We’ve got some really visible people,” said head
peer counselor, junior Julia Podlas.

With a one in three acceptance rate last spring,
peer counseling was able to draw in a very select
group.

“We cut some people who shouldn’ t have been
cut,” said Dr. Worth, saying that the pool of appli-
cants was so good last spring that students who
would normally be well-qualiﬁed as peer counselors
were not accepted.

“We had the finest group of applicants [last
spring],” said Worth.

Last year, approximately 10 percent of the stu-
dent body went to peer counselors. The average
counselor received eight to 10 people, according to
Podlas.

_ Peer counselors are people students are usually
comfortable talking with.

“I ’ve always been a person people can just come

“talk t.s.>.3:.§tt.i.<l.l’.<2.d.1...a.§...Z.1..!9v.s; t=1.l.l.<.iri.g.tc.>...r>.e<.>.r2l.<:-.’.T......  " "

“I like feeling like I’ve helped someone get through
a tough part of their life,” said junior peer counselor
Megan McCloskey.

Counseling is not always a piece of cake for the
peer counselors. They have to be available anytime,
according to Dr. Worth. Also, the responsibility of
counseling can sometimes be hard. Not all problems
are easy to address and sometimes are impossible to
address. In that case, the student is referred to the
university.

“Sometimes it’s hard to keep personal views to
yourself,” said Podlas.

Training helps counselors with all the glitches
counseling presents. “The peer counseling program
is the best trained program,” said Podlas.

A two-day training session with an emphasis on
listening skills is followed by meetings every every
month. Much of the training is done by Dr. Worth.

“A high percentage of peer counselors who apply
for dorm counselors have gotten in,” said Worth.

Listening skills are key. Peer counselors are also
taught to motivate students to foster their own self-

Photo by Francesca Kefalas, The Ring-tum Phi
The University Peer Counselors and Dr. Worth give students someone to talk to.

  
   
 

“I was just fascinated with what he was doing.at
Lynchburg College,” said Worth.
Washington and Lee was “very receptive” to the

Activities, education and outreach committees
are now a part of peer counseling.
“We’re just basically taking our message out to

  

worth.
problems,” said Podlas.

beyond” what he originally wanted it to be.

year we turned a corner.”

counseling encompassed.
the game.

“We are starting to do more outreach.”

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

A year after the Student-Faculty Hearing
Board was founded, its members are pleased
with the job it has done.

The SFHB, founded in order “to hear and
adjudicate allegations of sexual misconduct
involving Washington and Lee students,” con-
sists of four faculty members and four students.
Two faculty and two student members are also
appointed. This year’s faculty members are
Professors Brian Murchison, Pamela Simpson,
Cecile West-Settle, and William Watt. Roger
Jeans and Nancy Margand are the faculty alter-
nates. Student members are Justin Bakule,
Shawn Copeland, Julia Podlas, and Laura
Voeckel. Student alternates are Brian Hucks
and Sakina Paige.

If a student has a complaint, he or she can
take that complaint to the SFHB Mediator. The
1993-94 Mediator is Anece F. McCloud, asso-
ciate dean of students for minority and interna-
tional student affairs. The Mediator then dis-
cusses the complaint with all parties involved,
in an attempt to resolve the complaint. If it
cannot be resolved, and the complainant so
desires, the SFHB will hear the case.

Last year the SFHB heard one case of sexual

intercourse without consent, and found the ac-

“We really promote the person solving their own
Worth feels that the program has “gone way

“I’ve been tremendously excited to watch this
program grow and expand,” he said. ‘‘I thought last

This year peer counseling has become a multi-
dimensional program. Before, students could get in
contact with counselors through what was basically
a “hotline.” To a large part that was what peer

Outreach, however, has now become the name of

“This is kind of a really need year,” said Podlas.

the people,” said senior Doug Kaufman, head of the

outreach committee.

Peer counseling’s education committee strives to
educate students about issues like rape, AIDS, alco-

hol and stress.

education committee.

he has newer and higher hopes for it.

said.

Worth started the program six years ago when he
was inspried by Dr. Don Werner at a Virginia Psy-

chologists Association meeting.

SFH3 members claim success

cused not guilty.Two complaints of sexual mis-
conduct were reported to the Mediator, but the
complainants did not request any formal action.

“[The SFHB] is serving the purpose it was
created for,” said member Shawn Copeland.
But, “it hasn’t received much publicity, good or
bad.”

“The system is working,” said McCloud.
She added, however, “we have not received
complaints from all the students who may have
had complaints.”

McCloud emphasized the conﬁdentiality of
the system, and said, “It’s important for stu-
dents to be able to have confidence that other
students will not know about [their reports].”

“I don’t think students have any reason to
feel otherwise [than conﬁdent],” said Copeland.
“I would hope people would feel free to ap-
proach it.” *

Board member Julia Podlas also thinks that
not all students come forward with their com-
plaints. “There are so many cases that go
unreported,” she said.

Voeckel also stressed the need for students
to feel secure in the system. “The system can’t
work without students reporting their com-
plaints,” she said.

The board meets in the event of a case, and
other times during the year, “to discuss issues
of procedure,” said Board Chairperson Cecile
West-Settle.

“Right now we’re working on alcohol awareness
week,” said senior Sarah Butler, co-chair of the

While the peer counseling program has gone
beyond Dr. Worth’s original goals for the program,

“I would very much like to see the peer counselors
kind of like the trusted people around campus,” he

1987. Worth came to W&L in 1972.

idea of peer counseling when Worth introduced it in

He set up the first counseling service at W&L.
Students can go in to talk to him in the University

Center by making an appointment with Carol Calkﬁts.

in,” he said.

“You don’t have to have a huge problem to come

All counseling, both with Dr. Worth and with the

peer counselors, is totally confidential.

Worth majored in clinical psychology at Ohio

State University, received his masters degree in clini-

Colorado.

Lexington.

cal psychology at the University of Missouri and
obtained his doctorate at the University of Northern

He is currently licensed in clinical psychology in
the state of Virginia and also has a private practice in

Hickman gives

$50,000 for biology

lecture series

9

By MICHAEL Hewu-:1'r
Phi Staff Writer

What’s green, lives in the biology department, and

doesn’t smell like fonnaldehyde?
Money.

Cleveland Hickman, professor emeritus of biology,
donated $50,000 to the Biology Department. According to
Shoulders of Giants: News of the Campaign for Washing-
ton and Lee, the money will be used to endow the Biology
Lecture Series. Due to previous budget restraints, the
department had difficulty in affording more than one guest;
lecturer per year, and seldom for more than one day.
Hickman also designated an additional $4000 to the pro-

posed $20 million science center.

“We have many majors in biology, but insufficient

space for teaching and research,” said Hickman.

According to Farris Hotchkiss, Vice—-president of Uni-
versity Relations, Hickman’s gift is vital to Washington.

and Lee’s $127 million fundraising campaign.

“A gift of this sort brings us more encouragement for the
University ’s future than I can possibly say,” said Hotchkiss.
Hickman believes that his gift will be beneficial for

W&L.

“It’s been very helpful and will continue to be so for

' years to come,” said Hickman.

a-

   

    

  

I
e Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   

ALCOHOL, from page 1

In the 1990 Carnegie Foundation report Cam-

Lip: In Search of Community presidents of
leges and universities across America were

ed, “What three campus-life issues have

en ‘you the greatest concern?” The most

quent response to that question was “Sub-

nce abuse — primarily alcohol.”

A report from the Student Affairs staff at

shigton and Lee, dated September 1993,

ws that W&L ranks alcohol as one of its

atest concerns too.

“In the fall of 1991, the Student Affairs staff
t in a series of workshops to consider the

blem of alcohol at Washington and Lee,”

tes the report. “We concluded that alcohol

use among students at Washington and Lee is

roblem that needs to be addressed.”

How well is the University getting across its

ssage?

Howison said things improved for a time,

t are beginning to decline again. Three years

0 the Ofﬁce of the Dean of Students com-
ed e student arrest records in the city of
xington beginning in Fall 1988. In the 1988-

academic year, 182 students were arrested

I alcohol related violations, including DUI,

ssession, public drunkenness, noise and lit-
.. In the fall of 1990, W&L set a goal to reduce
= number of W&L students arrested for alco-
I related violations. W&L worked with the
te emity Council, the Lexington City Po-
e, the Lexington Community Oouncil and
= Virginia Department of Alcoholic Bever-
e Control. In 1989-1990, the number of alco-
l related arrests dropped to 152. The number
clined after that to 117 in 1990-91 and only
« in 1991-92.

Buﬁn the 1992-93 school year, incidents of
est for alcohol related charges went up again,
121 arrests. This year there were six arrests
r drunk driving within the ﬁrst two weeks of
e sses. There were ﬁfteen arrests for DUI all
t year.

Dean of Greek Affairs Leroy C. “Buddy”
kinﬁ said that part of the reason for the
tructuring of Tear Night two years ago was
help prevent injuries due to intoxication. But
is year, as in years past, broken bones and
rained muscles marred Tear Night for some.
Dr. James Worth, university psychiatrist
d head of the campus alcohol awareness
ogrﬂn, said that alcohol also poses greater
reats to students. An arrest for public drunk-
riess or an ankle sprained in a fall down the
». irs are only minor symptoms of alcohol
use.

“The VMI/Phi Delt ﬁght would never have

occurred if there were no alcohol present,” said
Worth. “In social problems where there are
student injuries and deaths, alcohol is almost
always present. I haven’t ever dealt with an
acquaintance rape where alcohol wasn’t in-
volved.

“And who knows how many relationships
broken, how many excellent GPAs fallen to
average or below, or how many careers left
because of alcohol,” Worth continued.

Newly published studies have shown that
abuse of alcohol affects learning and memory.
Not only can drinking to excess make you have
blackouts in which

drank less more often.”

Swartzwelder pointed out that the type of
drinking that goes on at colleges, including at
W&L, is exactly the type that causes the most
damage. Most colleges students drink very
little during the week, but then have a “blow-
out drinking spree” during the weekend.

“It’s a totally different psychology,” said
Swartzwelder. “They ’re looking for a real strong
alteration two times a week. That’s exactly
what disrupts memory.”

But there is a distinction between alcohol
use and alcohol abuse. Just because you drink

does not mean

you can’t remem-
ber anything, but it
can affect your
long term memory,
and your ability to
learn. Worth ex-
plained that means
that two weeks af- ,
ter drinking a
dozen beers, you
could still be suf-
fering from a

USO

ing evidence of use

Symptoms of dependency

' Trying to cut down or quit using some
substance, and failing at it

' “Blackouts”, or lapses of memory, after

° Using the substance while alone, or hid-

° Using the substance to forget about prob-

that you are abus-
ing alcohol.
“Abuse is us-
ing alcohol to the
point where you
are impaired in
somefashionand
tothepointwhere
you are endan-
gered by addic-
tion,” said
Worth. “It’s a

“mental hang- lems of worrigs two partrisk. The
over”. , - - - - more buzzed you
S C 0 t t h Doing things while under the inﬂuence feel the more m_
S w a r t z w e 1 d e r , t at cause Fegret later . _ paired you are.
neurosciemist and ° Not being able to enjoy an event without “You know
associate clinical the substance you’re safe if you

professor of psy-
chiatry at Duke
University, found
that alcohol dis-
rupts the chemical
messenger system
that carries infor-
mation to memory.
Swartzwelder also :
found that alcohol
blocks the changes
that take place in
the brain when it
learns something

social gathering

use the substance

abuse
' get the substance

the substance

° Using much more than other people in a
' Neglecting responsibilities in order to

' Family, friends, or employer expressing
concern about substance

° Being willing to do almost anything to

° Financial or legal problems from using

feel relaxed and
c o m f o rt a b l e
fromdrinkingbut
have not really
altered yourmen-
tal state,” said
Worth. “But for
most people it’s
very hard to real-
ize state of im-
pairment while
they’re actually
drinking.
“We’re cer-
tainly not trying

new — effectively
blocking the
transferral of the new information. The degree
of impairment increases with the amount of
alcohol imbibed.

“It is clear that when it comes to alcohol
affecting how well your brain is working, the
important factor is how much you drink per
drinking session,” said Swartzwelder. “We
don’t understand why, but in non-alcoholic
drinkers the amount that is drunk per drinking
spree is what affects learning. Scientiﬁc data
show that if when you drink, you drink a lot,
you’re hurting your brain more than if you

to say alcohol is
evil. The University’s position is to encourage
and, where necessary, enforce the use of alco-
hol in appropriate and risk free ways,” said
Worth.

However, Worth added that college stu-
dents are at greater risk to become abusers of
alcohol or alcoholics, especially students at
W&L.

“A guess that I have is that alcohol abuse at
W&L is higher than the average school —
that’s not a data based statement,” said Worth.
“But we do know statistically that alcohol abuse

is higher where there is fraternity membership.
That’s true nationwide. While other schools
have 20 to 30 percent membership in fratemi-
ties, W&L has 75 to 85 percent membership.”
By extending those figures, that means that
W&L very likely has more students who abuse
alcohol than other schools as well.

Peer Counselors Sarah Butler and Jennifer
“Goose” Garrigus, co-chairs of the peer coun-
selor education committee, said the pressure to
drink is hard to resist at W&L.

“There deﬁnitely is a problem at W&L,”
said Butler. “The average drinks per person per
week at W&L is way above the national aver-
age. Dr. Worth told us about a survey on college
campuses on the west coast. The drinks per
person per week average there is 2.9. I know
lots of people that drink way more than that
here. They might be drinking responsibly, but
we are way above the national average.

“If you took students out of this college
situation and put them in the real world-— if
they drank this much— they’d be considered
alcoholics,” said Butler.

Garrigus said the pressure to drink is espe-
cially great on freshman.

“lt’s so hard not to drink when the pressure
is so hard,” said Garrigus. “The freshman have
never been in this atmosphere before. Alcohol
is easy to abuse here because it’s easy to get.”

Head peer counselor Julia Podlas agrees.

“l’ve had freshmen come to me and ask if
they have to drink to fit in at W&L.” said
Podlas. “Girls come to me and say ‘I’ve never
drunk before and I don’t want to start now’.”

W&L surveys of entering students show
that most students drink even before they get to
W&L, however.

“In a recent survey of the freshman class at
Washington and Lee, 75 percent of the class
reported that they drank alcoholic beverages
before coming to W&L,” says the Student
Affairs report. And most students increase their
drinking when they come to college.

Therefore the potential for abuse also in-
creases.

And as abuse increases, so do its conse-
quences.

“Alcohol continues to be a standard feature
at the traditional W&L fraternity party,” the
Student Affairs report stated. “A signiﬁcant

number of the cases handled by the Student
Conduct Committee involve alcohol abuse.
Also, our surveys on sexual assualt/date rape
indicate the detrimental impact of alcohol in
cases of sexual misconduct.”

Worth addedthat alcohol’stendency to lower
inhibitions also makes for a lot of problems
with regretted sex and unsafe sex.

 lcohol abuse concerns administrators

“AIDS is a big concern,” said Worth. “But
who wants herpes, genital warts, or chlamydia?
If you’re drunk and out of control, a condom is
the last thing you think about.”

Academic problems often stem from alco-
hol abuse. Worth said that in a report by the
University of Minnesota, studies showed that
students with a GPA below 2.5 were three times
more likely to have drunk to intoxication within
the past month than those whose GPAs were
higher than 3.5. Dean Howison said that he
usually becomes aware of students with alco-
hol problems when they are flunking out of
school.

“What it takes too often is for the person who
needs help to hit rock bottom,” said Howison.
“In a way colleges are pretty good at dealing
with extreme situations. We are working with
people who know they are hurting. But the
person who abuses alcohol on a regular basis
doesn’t see it as a problem.”

But Podlas said that W&L students often
turn to alcohol to relieve classroom pressures.

“Students deal with a lot of self esteem and
stress problems by turning to alcohol,” said
Podlas. “A lot of self-esteem problems turn into
an alcohol problem.”

On the positive side, however, I-Iowison
said that there has been a decline in highly
abusive behavior in recent years.

“We’ve gotten word out to students so that
friends are looking out for friends,” said
Howison. “It has helped to reduce the extreme
problems.”

Worth and University Health Educator Jan
Kaufman are analyzing the data from last year’s
alcohol use survey. When those results come
in, more will be understood about the character
of alcohol and drinking on campus. But for
now, Worth, peer counselors and other student
leadership groups such as the Student-Athlete
Mentors and fraternity presidents are all work-
ing to provide a support network for those who
ﬁnd they do have an alcohol problem. Educa-

- tion programs are developing to address the

problem as well.

“The only way to manage [the problem] is
through education,” said Podlas.

Butler agreed.

“We’re not trying to shove this down peoples’
throats,” Butler said. “But we want to make
people aware of alcohol’s effects on you. We
can’t tell people what to do. So we’re trying to
take the approach that we’ll give you some-
thing to think about.”

Worth concluded that drinking in general at
W&L is not the problem. Irresponsible drink-
ing and drinking to excess are the problems.

“I hope the student body doesn’t think that
the administration is the grinch that stole party-
ing,” said Worth. “Have fun but be safe.”

 

ON THE
SHOULDERS

, or GIANTS

 ‘THE CAMPAIGN FOR

0

Washington and lee

... .,-.a.,.......,._ ..-. .... ﬂ-...-..—.,-.-...4—w...«.;-».....-,...,..—,,..,.,_,.,,\V__”_ 1 > A0

$8 7 million raised

from contributions by 12,692 alumni, parents, friends,
faculty, staﬁ’, corporate, and foundation donors.

$40 million to go A

to reach our goal of $127 million by July 1, 1995.

We need your support.

 

 

 

PAGE 4 The Ring’-tum Phl, October 8, 1993
NEWS

Committees examine life on Hill Financial aid down-

needs of a few.

By MELISSA SAWYER - - - _ - -
By ITORRMNE TIGAS Phi Staff write’ appiii:z:r‘ifdslii:ni’tYl‘:)‘e‘sIiiri)i‘z:i<‘e tblienndegdvtvsrrllolrtﬁ
PI" staff Wm" ‘ wasniri'g—ton and‘Lee"s f1naric—13Ti1ﬁ‘iﬁid'is' need for ﬁnancial aid a basis for admission.

_ _ still aﬂoat, although it may not be in for any DeCourcy saidthat he does haveto maketoug
Two new committees debuted this year, one to smooth Sailing choices. /‘
anaiyze °°ed,“°ad°“ at Wasbmgton and Lee and °“e ‘d This is the word from John DeCourcy, ”Peoples’ situations change‘— a divorce,
eevltabze Games Han‘ , _ _ W&L’s financial aid director. unemployment— these all factor in.” He said
The C°ed“°_a"°“ Cbmmmees °°'eh’"’ed by DeCourcy said that it is true thatacouple of that upperclassmen will not suddenly be cut
P’°fe5S°rs Pamela S"“P5°" abd Robe" Sdbngv “'35 students chose not to return to W&L this fall off. “We’ve madeacommitment to them, and

CV33"-‘rd ‘S’ 100'‘ 3”he1mP3¢‘°f°°ed“°3“°“°“ w&11"‘ because they were not given the aid they re- unless their situation changes, they are pretty
the 135‘ elgm Years and to Ieebmmend 3 edbrse df a_ed_°“ quested. He added, however, that they still had well protected.”

f°' the b“d"e~ The ebmmmee Plans ‘O 3"3]}’ze Stabsmfs options open to them. DeCourcy said that when The biggest problem with financial aid now
and l'e‘”eW feeshman S““'e)’5- Dean 0f Students D3"1d he sees that an upperclassman has a real need, is ﬁnding enough for entering freshman, said

Howlson sgld this committee Is “pnmanly Interested In W&L will fill it. DeCourcy. He said that while there has been
the f“d"'e- _ _ _ “We don’t give handouts though,” he said, no big increase in need, the numbers of appli-

, The ebmmmee ednslsts 0f “me f3e“_"Y ‘Hem’ noting the need for students to make difficult cants are steadily going up. W&Lis one of the
bets: L153 A“_ysA"G°ld5m“ha Kalhy Kbbememg Nanci’ choices concerning loans and school year jobs. cheapest private universities in the country.
Mafgmnda Ell23betl‘(_)11VeTs Ce°|1ewe5"S_°‘des S1mP5°“s W&L’s financial aid fund is supported Changes in the American culture, however,
Sdbng and Tom wllbamsé and thee 3PP°1"‘ed Stbdemei largely through endowed scholarships and have allowedmore middle- and lower-inco .
Cam] Piereev Fmblde J°"e5 and D3“ Fe"°“~ Sb‘ s“b' alumni gifts. Currently, the Capital Campaign students to come to this traditionally upper-
ebmmmees have bee“ fbrmedi admissibbs/aldmnlv ace‘ is trying to raise $30 million for endowments, class school, thereby necessitating an increase
d¢mlCS, C3mP“51ife- athletics! faculiy/Staff and the “5“8' and is rumored to be well on its way to meeting in aid. DeCourcy noted that some people have
gesdb“ box” e°mmi!te_e- The 135‘ edbebmmmeea beaded that goal. higher expectations. They want to maintain
by Margmnd and W'"'a“}5v '5 de5‘g"edt°bea5°““d}“8 W&L is “the only school that doesn’t use their standards of living- “some have outra-
b°f“'d between ‘he ebmmmee 3“d ‘be w&Le°mm“““Y= unrestricted income to pay ﬁnancial aid,” said geous demands,” he added. “It’s never easy
Sald S““P5°“- DeCourcy. That is, W&L doesn’t use money saying ‘no’ but if the facts indicate that there

when W&L ﬁre‘ decided t° adml‘ women i“ from the general tuition fund to pay for the
July of 1984, a plan was formulated to review coeduca-
tion after 10 years. The Coeducation Committee has s
been formed one year earlier than planned. lt has not . .
been determined how long the committee will continue
 S1x hurt on Tear N1ght

The Gaines Hall Committee was established to .
“explore ways to create in Gaines Hall a vibrant residen- .
tial community,” Dean Howison said. Women and ‘RUSH, "Om P3991

sororities will receive special attention.
Dean Howison hopes to “get more students Patrick McCabe is not overly concerned with number of pledges.

really is need, we work something out.”

over to Gaines” and believes that the committee can “I would have preferred to have done better, but the numbers aren’t a concern of mine,”
“achieve more if it looks at Gaines in a creative way.” McCabe said. “Quality is more important.”

At its first meeting last week, the committee The house’s small size is not an indicator of an imminent or impending end to the fraternity.
discussed plans for sorority meeting rooms and an ex- McCabe ascribes the fratemity’s uniqueness and characteristics to the smallness of the chapter...
panded women’s center. The focus on women and “l have no question what the future of the chapter will be,” McCabe said. “It still offers one of
sororities stems from last year’s petition of 500 students the best leadership possibilities on campus.”
for a larger women’s center. Allowing for the high and low extremes, the majority of houses got between 11 and 20 pledges

Committee member Laura Clark said there are with most falling in the high teens.
“means that haven’t been met” and hopes to see Gaines The differences between this year’s and last year’s Tear Night was the more equal distribution

made into “a productive and fun place to live.” of pledges and the fewer people suffering injuries or making visits to the local hospital.

Other members of the committee are Christo- An Emergency Room nurse at Stonewall Jackson Hospital said just six W&L students came .
pherAlbert, HeatherAussiker, Jamie Hardman, Kathleen in over the weekend for alcohol-related injuries. Only one student, suffering from a broken collar
Stimeling and Bob Tompkins. bone, came to the Emergency Room on Friday night.

   

. ,5 3", " ,

photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

        
 

'° ' ° ° -' °  ° ° ° ' ° ' ° °' FREE TRIPS AND MONEY" Ladies’ Shoes Clothin Accessories
: Just 'm_agm?"' your ad : Individuals and Student Organiza— _ ’ g’ _
: COUld be In this space and : tions wanted to promote the Hottest .
. both you and the phi . Spring Brealtk lgestilnztitiogs, call the  - _ .   - - . -.
. nat1on’s ea er. n er- am us

Z_ would be much happler _Z p,og,,m,1_800_327_601§_ RESUMES - COVER LETTERS - ENVELOPFS

' ° ° ° ’ ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' Wecanhelp you get organized with Resumes& CoverLetters.

We also do High-Speed, High-Volume Copies & Faxing. I

24-Hour tum-around on most jobs.
 Weekend’  A §w. Ne'i§22‘i¥;e‘é.‘3.  regs? 'I:i4I]639l’%)§'l‘ or=i'~%|
Home Some Take—Out  

V \‘
W&L Art

l
l

lﬁﬁllllmﬂﬂﬂﬁ oppogoggzot 

Signatures:
Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee
M. Miley John Letcher
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr.
Sam Houston A. P. Hill

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

 

Nah. hm ‘h .k ms h B" l   Oéntannli/Iorisdgtyé Srﬁturday 23 N. Main St. Lexington, VA
in 0:5 cr wl w t - - ‘ - - -
beautiful ibpuqifetgof lllpwers. So std: iii and trienateyoursclf ‘ Mon‘ ' Sat‘ 10 - 5:30 
V tosomet mg spccia . t‘s just what your weekend needs. ‘ ¥
10 E. Nelson St. 463-9841 K /J
I
!' E L.‘
IJ
IE.

  
   

(Detober Speeials ‘J
--—Cassin les Special — - 3 for $9.50"-
$2.00 off a 1 CDs, $1.00 off all Cassettes

20% OFF ENTIRE STOCK — D335:?,§§,:Cg‘3°:§,§gf§:«§{§éi?3ck '3
e Cand Duffer-Sax-A-G0-G0

HOMECOMING SPECIAL Ic(;1e{3S”?§'(.).Is§‘.ii1t?::,§Z§’§?§,;f.’é;Ef.‘§§;oo _
- - e um 0 e oom ap ,

Souls of Mischief - ‘93 ‘til Infinity
Spice I - 187 He Wrote

Emmy Lou Harris - Cowgirl ’s Prayer
The College Town Shop Da"R1;2.-egg; :§;:,e;0,,§;m’s
 W‘ Nelson St’ Stonewall S uare Shopping Center

The Posies - Frosting on the Beater
- A xin on
Since 1926 453-9 00
MASTERCARD AMEX STUDENT CHARGES "1 4

    
 

  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

1.
l

1: Kathleen Quirk
. hi Contributing writer

Bocal writers held a reading
to fight hunger at the Writers
Harvest held in the Leybum Li-
brary Tuesday night.

The local event, organized by
English Department head Ed
Cra n and W&L students Kelly
Bro zman and Cameron Howell,
is part of; the national Writers
Harvest, the largest literary event
to ﬁght hunger in the country
with over 600 readers participat-
ing in over,-150 readings.

Half o_f_the $5 admission
chaﬁe goes to the Blue Ridge
Food Bank in Rockbridge
County, “the most important sup-
plier in the valley for hunger re-
lief,”- according to Prof. Craun.
The other half will go to national
agencies for hungerreliefthrough
Sh@‘Ou'r"Strength, a non-profit
hunger organization of people in
creative ﬁelds.

The Writers Harvest program
started several years ago with
Frederick Busch, a novelist and
teacher at Colgate University.
“Hghought that a reading might
be a good way for creative artists

— _. Rin-tum Phi October 8, 1993

to raise money to combat hun-
ger,” said Prof. Craun.

Because the project is under-
written by American Express and
the Princeton Review, “we have
no overhead,” said Prof. Craun.
“Every bit of money goes to com-
bat hunger.”

“I just think it’s a wonderful
opportunity to share talent for a
worthy cause,” said reader Char-
lotte Morgan, who was recom-
mended by the Maury Rive-
Writers.

Morgan read two prose po-
ems about American icons Elvis
Presley and Marilyn Monroe.

The other readers were VMI
professor Mary Balazs, who read
three of her poems; W&L senior
Jeff Mikita, who read his short
story “Silent Mice”; W&L pro-
fessor Dabney Stuart, who read
three of his poems; and W&L
senior Cameron Howell, who

read six poems, including two
new ones.

“Rather than just get some
outside author,” Prof. Craun said,
“it’s what’s true to W&L to have
these students and teachers read.
We hope to do it again next year
and build it up.”

‘I/I/6&1; zfe

Photo by Joe Framtom, The Ring-tum Phi
Jeff Mikita reads his short story at the Writer’s Harvest

Student group schedule

All organizations listed are
planning Tailgate parties in the

  
        
    

freshman parking lot before the chi psi ,
f°°tb31lgah‘°- M05‘ are Wnning Friday: afternoon Cocktail
ﬂoats in the Homecoming pa- party
T3‘ 3150- Evening Banquet
Mi1101'itJ’ Students A55°ci3' Saturday: evening band party
tion  Sigma
Saturda)“ 10 P-m- to 1 a-"‘- Saturday: afternoon Cocktail
Homecoming Formal with DJ party
A1911“ Phi Omega Evening party with ‘The City’
Saturday: afternoon Alumni Lambda Chi Alpha
C0Ilft3i1 Pan)’ Saturday: evening party with
P1 Beta Phi ‘The Big Picture’
ichi Omega I ": ; 'Phi:Kappa Psi 
vKaPP=* Al2.l“:'§lTh°*8..'-1-1.-. . Sﬁufﬁﬁrtzeiiﬂﬂiﬂgimﬂy with
jKappa Kappa*"Gamma: ‘(St-éginoiidsit ‘ M ' . 1 ’ '
Delta Tau Delta ’ phi Kappa sigma
Fndéyi 5330 P-m- 10 8 P—m- Friday: afternoon party with
Ccgktail Party ‘ Choice’

tion10:30 a.m. Ribboncutting

 

 
  
 

Saturday: 10 a.m. Recep-

   

From Phi Staff Reports

The Connells aren’t the only famous musi-
sans visiting Washington and Lee this week.
The Mozart Orchestra of Hamburg will

Evening party with ‘Deli-
cious’

Saturday: evening party at

SAE with ‘The Grapes’

E

Tailgate prties before big events are a &L tradition

Chamber orchestra to play Tuesday

Orchestra, the National Symphony, the Boston
Pops and the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra.
He has given recitals at Carnegie Hall, the
Metropolitan Museum in New York and the
Terrace Theatre at the Kennedy Center in D.C.

Phi Gamma Delta

Friday: evening Alumni
Cocktail Party

Saturday: 7:30 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Cocktail Party10 p.m. to ?? party
with ‘The Press’

Pi Kappa Alpha

Saturday: evening party with
‘Mother Nature’

Sigma Chi

Friday: 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. Cock-
tail Party

Saturday: afternoon party with
‘Big Hairy Posse’

Evening party with, ‘RoLl,s‘of .

Azure’ - ~
Sigma Nu

Friday: afternoon Cluster Re-p

union Cocktail Party
Evening semi—formal dinner
Saturday: afternoon Cocktail
Party for all Alumni and mem-

,.. .,..,, ,,._,.,..._..,.. .....

bers.

Evening party with ‘Lost In
The Supermarket’

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Friday: evening pre—party be-
fore The Connells

Saturday: afternoon Cocktail
Party

Evening party with ‘The Un-
knowns

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Friday: afternoon Alumni
Reception

~‘-The§Grapes’ In .1 ~

 .ISa2na.:A.lpha

Saturday: evening party with
‘Uncle Mingo’
Schedule information compiled by Phi

contributing writer Kathleen Quirk

Saturday: evening party with

Friday:AlumnAiCockla”il(Pa"riy’i ’

Alumni schedule

THURSDAY,OCI‘OBER7
1:30 p.m. W&L Alumni Board
of Directors Fall
MeetingNorthern Auditorium,
Leyburn Library (Meeting con-
tinues on Friday and Saturday)

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8

10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Five-Star
Generals and Homecoming Reg-
istrationA lumni House

10:30 a.m. Campus Tours.
Alumni House

12:10 p.m. The John
Randolph Tucker Lecture A.
Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Senior
Judge forthe United States Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit,
Philadelphia. “Race and the
American Legal Process.”Lewis
Hall

12:30 p.m. Luncheon: Five-
Star Generals, Alumni Board of
Directors, Law Council, and their
spouses. Rain Plan—Doremus
Gymnasium. ront Lawn

2 p.m. Fall Meeting of the
W&L Law CouncilLewis Hall
(Meeting continues on Saturday)

2 p.m. Homecoming Semi-
nar: “From Communism to Capi-
talism: Can the Red GiantsPlay

‘vim; alumni will find their weekend full of activ

 

1 riters meet to fight hunger

Ball?” Conducted by Roger B.
Jeans, Ph.D., Professor of His-
tory, Kipling M. Pirkle, Ph.D.,
Associate Professor of Adminis-
tration, and Lyn F. Wheeler,
D.B.A., Professor of Account-
ing. Moderator: Mimi Milner
Elrod, Ph.D., Associate Director
of Special Programs Lee Chapel
6 p.m. Reception for all
Alumni honoring the Five-Star
Generals, the Class of l938,and
the 1993 Homecoming Queen
CourtAlumni House
7 p.m. Five-Star Generals
Reunion BanquetEvans Dining
Hall
8:45 p.m. W&L Choral En-
sembles including .JubiLee and
Southern Comfort Lenfest Cen-
ter for the PerformingArts, Keller
Theatre
10 p.m. Student Activities
Board Homecoming Concert-
The Connells and Cracker Stu-
dent Activities Pavilion
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9
8:30 a.m. Men’s Tennis:
W&L Fall Classic Upper Courts
9 a.m. Law Council Meeting
resumes Lewis Hall
9:30 a.m. “The Great Train

  
 
     

I
--9:‘ ,
' k
3

 
   

  
 
   
  
  
    
   
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
         
        
    
    
 

Robbery” and other mysteries of
W&L Folklore. Moderated by J .
Holt Merchant ’61, Ph.D., Pro-
fessor of HistoryThe General
Headquarters( The Pit), Univer-
sity Center
11 a.m.The 1993 Homecom-
ing ParadeMain Street, Washing-
ton Street
ll a.m. Men’s Soccer vs.
Dickinson College Liberty Hall
Field
Noon - 1:15 p.m. Alumni
Luncheon with Faculty. Enter-
tainment by the Jim Caldwell
Band. Rain Pl: .—Evans Dining
Hall Front Lawn
1 p.m. - 2 p.m. Alumni Book
Signing Parke S. Rouse, Jr. ’37 -
The Great Wagon Road John D.
Dean ’76 - Tom Katz University
Bookstore
1:30 p.m. Women’s Soccer
vs. Guilford CollegeLibertyHall
Field
2 p.m. Football: Generals vs.
Davidson Special Halftime show,
featuring the crowning of the
1993 Homecoming Queen Wil-
son Field
4:30 p.m. Alumni Recep-
tionAlumni House

  
 
 

Alumni Office Photo

open the W&L Concert Guild season at 8 p.m.
this Tuesday at the Lenfest Center. The 26 -
member ensemble will perform Haydn’s 48th
Symphony, the Concerto in G Major for Viola
nd Orchestra by Telemann, Paul Hindemith’s
rauermusik’, and the Serenade for Strings in

E Major by Anton Dvorak.

The Mozart Orchestra has performed in
France, Korea, Spain, Germany, Switzerland
and the United States during the course of their
yearly 50 concert tour. The instrumentation of

he ensemble consists of the traditional string,
‘ boe and horn combination common to cham-
ber orchestras.

The featured soloist for the evening is New
York violist Marcus Thompson, recipient of
the first doctoral degree in viola from thelulliard
School. Thompson’s solo career has included
perfonnances with the Chicago Symphony

O

Thompson’s performances on ‘Fresh Air’ and
‘Performance Today.’ He has also released a
compact disc of Brahms’ chamber music to
wide critical acclaim.

chusetts Institute of Technology and a member
of the viola faculty at the New England Conser-

vatory.

Robert Stehli, founder of the Mozart Orchestra
fifteen years ago this month.

student involvement in the planning and prepa-
ration of a performance series of visiting amsts.
Dr. Timothy Gaylard serves as director and
faculty adv isor to the Concert Guild.

of the Lexington community.

National Public Radio frequently broadcasts

Thompson is professor of music at Massa-

Conducting the program on Tuesday will be

The Concert Guild was formed to allow

The concert is free and open to all members

 

      
   
      

  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 

 

 

  

Page 6

off the mark

 

 

by Mark Parlsi

I‘M A LOUSY TIPPER AND 'l‘D

 

W&LIF E

 

The Ring-tum Phi October 8,19%

by Jeff MacNelly

LIKE \/oun Rui>EsT wA\TRE‘35 90 1
I woN‘T FEEL Guinv ABOUT IT-

  

v

   

J reserved.

‘ A
~ i~;.~..e‘-:
.‘i‘.~.;.i\I.*

t’.

 

©H‘I/ /“ARK Raizi/ii

01992 MARK PARISI

 

Collonade Crossword

ACROSS ° 1‘
1 Jelly flavor
6 Sinks 4 '5
10 Holds in wonder
14 Even
15 Beige
16 Lean off center
17 Unaccompanied
18 Mine cart
19 Sign of sorrow
20 Blew up
22 Greek letter
23 — majesty
24 Turned over
26 Tennis term
29 Scottish
negaﬁve
30 "I smell —!"
31 Happening
33 Artists’ studios
37 Nevada city
38 Glass squares
40 Semi-precious
gem
41 Earnest petition
43 Author Loos
44 Small pastry
45 104
47 Head cover A" W9
48 Of less weight 4 Pertaining to
51 Plane surface punishment
53 Zodiac sign 5 Fundamental
54 Ones not in part

19

©1993 Tr‘b ne Media Services, Inc.

Reserved

28 Canvas shelter

32 Compass
direction

33 One or another

52 Coral island
55 Italian city
56 Mystery writer

class 6 Wooden bench 34 Long heroic “Ema ,
59 Antitoxins 7 Farm measure «poem  m£t‘.5r:‘F’_|°alt%er
so Command to 8 Finish college 35 Pro — 60 B d ' 9- t -
tabby 9 Total 36 Strike with open ° Y ° W3 9'
61 Eat greedily 10 Careful listening hand
62 Finishes 11 Use as a 38 Peel
63 Raison d‘—— weapon 39 Draws
64 Raines and ' 42 Dines
F“z9e’a'd  I/Aaalb:til:Fi/Fitillin 43 Gets 9V5" ’°'
65 Relax ' injury
55 Sale Condition 21 gr.‘ 45 Social divisions
67 Winter vehicles recording" 45 w,-am
DOWN 22 Pass out cards 43 393'" Used in
1 Joyful 25 EXeC_ medicine
2 Depend (_upon) 26 withered  é::etreasr:slD;icrirne
3 English river 27 Tied 9

action

 
  
    
   
   
     
       

  

. MICKEY MAMTLE?
MY GCOPNE99, HOW

“W Lone HAVE Tuiase OLD
CARI79 BEEN CLUTTERlN(—Z-
up we CLOsET?..

 

in
\'''Q ._,.r- -__ a 4:’ 6
s . .1, T“
*4x&‘#,au-v-.-.-.ﬂt;§' }\§A?3n . “\\N.&‘\\~

w I erg never tlirvwout anyllim ,
izerilia:-§git'll be worth a Fortune late?

 

_ Dave by David Miller

 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    

   

pa 1 

    
 

     

I we DqN‘T END up C1ETTlN(: ALLTHE
NEAT STUFF THE éiENERATioN BEFORE

__ TOWARD EACH OTI-lER...6UT IN UNl€ON

   
 

me GENERATION X
?RENuﬂ:AL AGIEEEMENT
o.i<., WHEN we C-ii=:r MARRiED AND

U9 GOT, WE HEREBY AGREE THAT WE
WllJ- NOT TJRN OUR F-Ru~§TRATioN-9

we WILL TJRN OUR FRu§TRATioNé
TowARD PREvi0u9 FRE9iDEN'l’lAL 160N4-
AND THEIK C0RRE9PoNDiNa Pbucieé...
—AND THEN... THEN WE'LL

Ju6T WATCH €oME
MORE T.v. ./

NON §li0lllTUlI

he

 

10/08/93

    

-rue \N°RLD .N\\G\\T i
I am) TOMORROW

 

 

i r ISM IN FOR ‘_
an   -= - serum
2 « -
0)’ Mike Palers WY   000 _5 
 ii ; ‘I ‘
,_,_ V, __ .
-'1": ,- ,;:-.7’ /’ '7/’ 7 I0-9 

SHOE

~‘\
CIGARS ARE \\\.‘.
by Jeff MacNe//_y -

GREAT-NO ‘ ‘ ‘

"6

QUE SIION

 

GROUPS!

CLUBS!

Raise up to $500 to
$1500 in less than a
week. Plus win a trip to
Mtv Spring Break ‘94
and get a FREE T-shirt
just for calling.
1-800-950-1039 ext. 65

   

HARDWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

SKYDIVE!!

Is the experience & expertise of your Instructor
important? Make your first jump under the
tutelage of the only two Instructors at Skydive
Orange certified in all three disci lines; Static Line,

Tandem & Accelerated Freefall. ou can freefall up
to 60 seconds your first skydive! Call toll free for
brochure. 1-800-484-7400 *Av~Ar When on hear the

tone dial 5531; or call (703) 94 -8988

We carry Matrix, Paul Mitchell, Nexxus, Bain de Terre &
Redken products.

‘Z2zng[e.s hair salon
College Square, RT 11 N. Lexington 463-1605
Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7 Susan Swisher
Sat. 9-4 Stephanie Camden
Bridgett Sensebaugh

 

Now at W&L Book store
ricii un vour conii ioiiaii

When was the last time you
laughed out loud? Former
Ring-tum Phi humor
columnist Jon Sbar’s
best-selling book is now in
college book stores from
Lexington, VA to Fairbanks,
Alaska. The Undergraduate
Almanac gives a hilarious,
uncompromised view of the
college experience. No
subject is safe from Sbar’s
irreverent humor. (22
original pen and ink
drawings)

ORDER TOLL-FREE
ANYTIME
1-800-444-2524

for easy delivery

'I'|IE NIIEII IIAIIUATE
Al¥M|NA byjon Sbar

A low life guide to higher edurulinn

 

K4

' Dormitory Subculture ' Soronty Dances '
° Parent's Weekend ' Sex ' Arrogant P sstirs *
' Dating Down The Road - Interns i om Hell -
' Greek life - Home for the o’ y
' Literary Musings of an Enlightened Cockrmch '

BUT THERE'S
STILL THIS STIGMA
ATTACHED TO US
CIGAR SMOKERS.

 

IN FACT] IN
SOME CIRCLES
WE'RE TREATED
LIKE PARIAHS...

 

SPRING BREAK ‘94 I
SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, & GO FREE!!

Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps.

Call (800) 648-4849

R&S Country Crafts
Craft Supplies

:For the crafter and finished crafts for the craft lover.

3,”:-,\iC1L ‘$333 We feature: ggcoﬁﬂm
K

C
- - b Delta - -
* Y Dimensions
Americana, and other name brand craft suppliers.

“How To” Books for Craft projects

376 E. 29th Street, Buena Vista
261-7441
Hours: M-Th. 2-6, Fri 2-8, Sat. 10-8, Sun. 1-6
JInnJnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnqqnn

    
 

Bring your Horse to
College gi-
Stabling available just off W&L " 
Campus. Full Board/ Large Riding
Arena/ 80 Acres of Trials/
Lessons Available
Phone #’s 463-2194 (Day)
463-1859 (Evening)
464-6620 (Barn)

     
  

Join us for our

  
   
 
 

Al

 

The   . .. .~. Sunsetspecial
Ilss|"i§l iii ‘

m-:°.~.;  "..' m-any-sat-my

HOUSE  ' 5:30-623013.111.

Rnlauraiil

Includessalad,homemaderolls&mumn,
enueeandbeverage.

30 N. Main St., Lexington Reservations Recommended 463-3020

 Restaurant

atliEElll'|'!uckSlop

  

E   BREAKFAST
  BUFFET
Friday 8: Saturday Nights
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North - Open 24 Hours

463-3478

 

OVER 100 EMPLOYERS AT SLAC JOB FAIRS

S E N I O R S!
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR JOBS IN

ADVERTISING - CONSULTING - COUNSELING -

INSURENCE - INVESTMENT BANKING -
LABORATORY RESEARCH - LAW - MTV -
PUBLISHING - RETAIL - SALES — SCIENTIFIC
RESEACH - SOCIAL SERVICES - TEACHING

RESUME DEADLINE:
OCTOBER 22, 1993

COME TO CDPO FOR DETAILS!

nnnnnunnnnnniunnnnntv

$10.00 per person i,

*9

ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES - HEALTHCARE - 5

 

e Iyng-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

H""” ’°"‘|‘Tﬂnue To mm on
No Mme/H. Fa, M0,, 1.“ k T)’

’°"‘T“'”" You (Am
"wk 7°“ Tfffﬂ m1-
0.

IF (1 Dow oor IT,
GET IT.”

6) I993 GREENWOOD TRUST (OHMMY, Hbﬁilx FN( XTR "o))VU5 ICTWOIIK

PAGE 8

    

Cllir ﬁling-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A lie is a lie

Now that rush is over, we can all talk about its ups and
downs without feeling too self—conscious. So let’s talk
about dirty rush and rush lies. The Interfratemity Council
will tell you dirty rush and lies hinder rush, and they would
be right in telling you so. But that is not a complete
evaluation of the situation. Has it ever occurred to the
fraternity members who concoct these lies that lying, of any
sort, is dishonorable behavior? Has it ever occurred to them
that rush lies are just as serious as lies in the classroom? It
would appear some fraternity members have never consid-
ered that a lie is a lie — no matter where it is told.

We do not want to condemn every fraternity member or
entire fraternities. We would really like to think that the
people who make up the lies you hear over and over again
during rush are the minority. But, the fact that this minority
gets away with their rush tactics is ridiculous.

Every student signs their name to a little card that says
they agree to live by the rules of the White Book. The White
Book clearly says that lying is an example of dishonorable
behavior. So, just a couple of weeks after the freshman hear
this great speech about how honorable we are here at W&L,
we give them rush. Shortly after that, some fraternity
members find it necessary to lie to freshman men. Nice
example we’re setting.

It’s like saying, “Oh by the way, you know that big long
speech we told you was really important? Well, forget it for
now. This is rush, you don’t need honor for that.”

Funny isn’t it, but rush lies might be the only ones that pay
off; at least in the short term. A little wizardry and some
manipulated truths have been known to get a house at least
another pledge or two. More importantly, they’ve been
known to cause another house to lose——sometimes big. But
this is rush and big boys don’t cry — unless it’s about the lies
some other house has been spreading.

During rush, the short term, you can tell a freshmen a lie
and he just might buy it and your house for warning him. But
in the long run, the course of four years, he’ll know he found
brothers who didn’t believe enough in honor or themselves
to have conducted a clean and fair nish. Most importantly,
he’ll know those brothers didn’t think they could get him to

join their fraternity unless they lied about another.

Maybe it’s been so long since someone tried to take the
honor system outside the classroom that we no longer
believe it could exist off the Hill.

Our new look...

If you ﬂipped to page two to read the staff editorial,
you probably got very confused. Not only that, but you
probably saw some new additions to the Phi on your way to
this page. For example, our comics on page six. You’re
probably asking yourself “Did Kefalas hit Lotto or some-
thing? How can they afford to run 14 pages and have a
comics section when the EC cut their funding?”

Don’t worry about it. Let us sweat thefinancial
details. Right now, you are holding in your hands the first
newspaper (in a series of many) that reﬂects the direction
the Phi will be taking in the future. We have expanded our
coverage, and plan to expand even further in the future. In
addition to all the campus news, we are covering newswor-
thy events at other area campuses. Additionally, we are
covering world and national news in our new section “Be-
yond the Blue Ridge.” Issue stories, such as this week’s
alcohol abuse story, will also be seen quite frequently. They
are intended to spark debate and put things in perspective at
W&L. Feel free to let us know how you feel about these
issues.

We’ve also moved things around inside the news-
paper for aesthetic purposes. We hope you enjoy the new
look of The Ring-tum Phi. It is something we have worked
very hard on and are very proud of.

And yes— you get the comics, too.

Quote of the week

It’s not like being at the Phi Delt house. They come
and get you here. '

-A professor ofgeology telling students on theBlue Ridge
Parkway why they couldn ’t chip off pieces of rock.

OPINION

film illing-tum lﬁhi

AI MON\ éll\TE
UN\\lE\zslT‘{...

P\N\Né OUT

   

    
 
 
     

"BASIC ACCOUNTING
PROCEDURE‘-

Wl-IO
V\'H' 33'

   
 
       

  

mt

(°~.
F'“‘=a-

L...
in 24» “:3,-

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 199

, who ‘NF-\1E‘fo\) out mix?
with rut? no You ei-ti \t~\?
\\l\>l=.\2G NEREYOU ? .
wiseri R2 ‘(on eoirie To
ezow or ?
“ON EXACTIN I70 ‘fokl i’Li\N
to Mlxlqz R LN N6 man
You GRADOKYET

L-=1

 9-30 some uwiinimii oer me?/.~ ezu\>\V|E- I
I lj g ems wmseros ?o6-.' mfsee 

        
   

EC violates non-partisan policy 

Two weeks ago, the Student Execu-
tive Committee allocated over $7,000
to The Trident. I believe this was a
mistake of enormous proportions. The
Trident was founded last spring term
by a small group of former Ring-tum
Phi staff members, disgruntled over
what most of the campus saw as the

Pa)’-

Tliis fund has been the subject of
some controversy of late because of the
EC’s denial of funding to the campus
chapters of the American Civil Liber-
ties Union and Amnesty lntemational.
The EC explained its actions by stating
that these groups are ideologically and

 

waningquality politically
of our student partisan and
newspaper. I thatthey are
While their associated
motives may PATRICK with off-
havebeenhon- campus or-
orable, their MCDERMUIT9 ganizations
actions were 994 that hold
unnecessary ~ strongpoliti—
and the funding  .~— cal opinions.
they received This deci-
for this new sionispredi-

publication was, at best, questionable.

The editors of The Trident, desper-
ate for start-up funding for their new
publication, turned to the Campus Re-
porting Committee (the CRC). The
CRC is an off-campus committee that
is not affiliated with the university. It
was established a few years ago by
W&L students as the publisher of The
Spectator, an ultra—right wing publica-
tion.

The editors of The Trident, by ac-
cepting funding from the CRC, made it
the publisher of the paper. If the editors
of The Trident had been content to
exist on their advertising income and
on fundingfromthe CRC,this allwould
have been perfectly acceptable. The
problem is, The Trident decided to
request a budget from the Student Ac-
tivities Fund, a fund into which we all

cated on the belief that you and I, as
W&L students, should not have to pay
to support the political agenda of an
off-campus or national organization
with which we may disagree. Now,
without taking sides in the great ACLU
vs. EC debate, I must say that the
committee’s decision to fund The Tri-
dent seems to contradict the spirit of
their previous statements.

While The Trident may not be vo-
calizing the opinions of its publisher
quite as dramatically as The Spectator
does, it is still controlled by an off-
campus organization with strong po-
litical views. Is it really conceivable
that the CRC would simply give its
money away without having any con-
trol over how it is spent and what is said
with it? The editors and the business
manager of The Trident say yes. They

told the Executive Committee that they
are merely a branch of the CRC, a
branch, they added, which is not con-
nected to the CRC. I would very much
like to see a branch that is not con-
nected to its source. Has anyone seen
any free-ﬂoating tree branches lately?
No, of course not. And why? Because
a branch, by definition, is connected to
its source in order to survive. Without
the tree, the branch dies. Without the
CRC, The Trident would do the same.

So, the question remains, why did
the Executive Committee fund an or-

few blacks who got in on a quota caus-
ing trouble, and of those who disagree
with them as politically correct radi-
cals who ought to be run-offcampﬁs. Is
this what your university is all about,
intolerance and hatred for anyone or
anything different? I don’t think so,
and I don’t think that you want to have
your Executive Committee providing
such an organization with funding.
Does the CRC have a right to’say
whatever it wants in a publication it
funds? If they are funding the publica-
tion, absolutely. Should we be paying

ganization with these off-campus po- for it? Absolutely not!

liticalconnections The fact that
when they had de- M________ the CRC’s bias
nied ‘funding to Why  the EXecu_ isconservatiozeis

two other groups
for the same rea-
sons? Only the
committee mem-
bers can answer
that, and perhaps
we should ask
them to. As stu-
dents, we must ask
ourselvesifwere-
ally want to be

tive Committee fund an
‘ organization ‘with these

off-campus political
connections when they
had denied funding to
two other groups for the
same reasons?

really not the is-
sue here. The is-
sue is whether
we should be
paying for them
to express that
bias. Takengis a
whole,thepolicy
of the Executive
Committee not
to fund partisan

funding a newspa-

per that is con-

trolled by the CRC. Isn’t one Spectator
enough for this campus?

Let ’s not forget that the same people
who publish your weekly edition of
The Trident also publish The Specta-
tor. The Spectator has brought you
articles that spoke of campus sexual
assault as a myth drummed up by over-
sexed feminists, of race relations on
campus as being nothing more than a

organizations is
a good one, but
it must apply to both sides.

If we are to deny funding to groups
which have been traditionally thought
of as “liberal,” we must also deny fund-
ing to traditionally “conservative”
groups. This is just common sense. It is
not an attempt to destroy any of these
groups, on the contrary, they add much
needed debate to the campus. We §m-
ply need to be consistent.

University stands at crossroads

Last week U.S. News and World Report released
its annual rankings of colleges which upgraded W&L
to 20th among small liberal arts co1leges.The rise
comes from the fact that W&L has more students who
graduated in the top 10% of their class, a lower
acceptance rate, and a higher SAT average. But while

such statistical data has im-
proved, W&L’s traditions, its
most valuable assets, have

exists.

been gradually vanishing.
W&L is a great school be-
cause its traditions provide a
unique educational experi-

 

ANDREW
OLMEM,

W&L alumni off campus. Without the bond of a
common history, alumni have no reason to contribute
to W&L, since the W&L they attended no longer

Reducing the number of men on campus would
also adversely affect other W&L traditions. Since the
university took control of the
fraternity system through the
renaissance program, it is the
administration’s responsibil-
ity to see that its policies do
not adversely affect any house.
By adopting a 50/50 ratio the

contributes so much to its character.We should be
proud that W&L’s character makes it unlike an-
other college and shouldn’t fear that it turns off

prospective students. Students come to W&L for

its unique character, not because it has a 50/50 ratio.

The more we waste time debating the 6W40
ratio, the more we neglect taking steps to positively
change W&L. Allocating more money for study
abroad programs and ﬁnancial aid, or providing
houses for the sororities, are actions that would
improve the university. Instead of acting on such
practical improvements, resources are wasted on
studying the 60/40 ratio.

W&L has entered a period where its once.re—

ence, not because its students  E 996 university would betray the . _
Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Francesca Kefalas have high SAT Scores_ Un_ - entire fraternity System and vered traditions, have become neglected, There

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Nancy Pavlovic less the current trend is send a death blow to Several have been Substantial improvements over the 1351

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos Stopped W&L win soon be fraternities_ substantially 10 years, such as the construction of Lenfest Center

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver juStan0t’herschOO1thatisstm weakened with a decreased and the Fraternity Renaissance program, but these

u o - . - - . o . - - - o c o - - . . . . . . . . - o . - u . . u u s u - - - . u . - - - u u I ' ' 7 ‘ t 't‘

 ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ’ ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ’ ' ' ’ ’ ' ' ' ’ ' ' ' ' ' ' ’ ' "'S;e'Pi::'{\?]'ll;:§ tistically impressive, but hallow of any true character. number of houses, W&L’s long standing tradition of are merely tge ll.llllV((’.jI'Sli§S physlicall a:sets.f ”(lj‘h(ei

Features Editor _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ . _ . _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ . . . _ _ _ _ “David wnmmgm _ Recently there has been some discussionon revis strong fraternities could easily come totan ergd f tlnlVl61l’S:Iy s iT:a sant ra 1 itonfstshtpsvé Kasageeﬁqple

phmognpny Edno, _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , Benmn, smith mg the admissions policy of keeping the ratio of men A 50/510dra.tio woultd behacceptab e lb itsf energs ijnto_ is  e rnos rteczn. 0 At t. .1

An Dnecm, . _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , , _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ , , _ , _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ “phi; canon to women at 60/40 to improve W&L’s rankings in outweig e its cost, in t ere are no ene its. e ‘emiseo espea ing ra 1 ion. one imei was

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...Ieb Tilly college guides like U.S. News and World Report. The university ‘could pride_itself on how it got rid of such impossible to walk around campus without other ;

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Sarah Wyatt policy, so the argument goes, prohibits W&L from a discriminating policy, Students and fgiculty
becoming a “top-rated” school because it keeps out though discrimination in giving you a friendly
Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Kevin Roddey some qualiﬁed women and frightens away prospec- the admissions process B . _ h€3l10.- Today P601316 ,
Assistant Business Manager -------------------------------- --Allen Flickinser tive women. W&L should no itself ofthis discrimi- would continue. Ifthe top y adopting a 50/50 ratio the passing each other
AdV°“f5fn8 M39385’ - - - - - - v - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ' ~ - - ~ - - - - - - ~ - - 53")’ 9"°"'§“°“°’ nating policy and adopt, as most other colleges have, 400 applicants were all university would betray the watch their feeior
Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Brlan Widener a 50/50 ratio from the Same state, they _ , look away. IS the uni-
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt These anacks against the 60/40 policy illuminate would not all be admitted entlre fraternlty System and Versny anx better nff .
just what is destroying this great university. They sincetheuniversityiscom- send a death blow to several nowthatthistradition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

is almost dead?

A university
should have a distinct
character. Not eqry
student may find it
appealing or benefi-

. cial, but a university

throw out all its benefits, just to emulate other so
called “top” schools. No attempt is even made to try
and understand why such a policy actually contributes
to W&L’s exceptional educational environment.
The 60/40 ratio is a product of co-education. It
allows women to attend W&L while keeping alive
W&L’s all-male heritage. Co-education could have

mitted to geographic di-
versity. Is it fair that just .
because an applicant lives
in a state that has a large
number of W&L appli-
cants he is denied admis-
sions? It may not be fair,

fraternities. Substantially weak-
ened with a decreased number
of houses, W&L’s long standing
tradition of strong fraternities
could easily come to an end.

is otherwise independent.
Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University

Center. by "00" 0" Tuesday to 8PP°3T in W" “’°°k’5 °‘““°“- C°'“"‘"5’ '°“°'5’ 3"“ “My changed the university so drastically that students but it isa necessary part of does not attempt t0
Views” do not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does attending only 10 years anan eouid have had com- constructing the best pos- educate everyone. It
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current pletely different experiences. Without the 60/40 sible student body. looks for students

who would fit into and benefit from the typﬁof
education it provides. W&L provides a solid liberal

The academic environment would not improve
due to a 50/50 ratio. It does not matter if the classroom

ratio, W&L would have effectively become a new

ndt“ 't' fl'bel d b 't .
co“ 6 ml mm 1 an 0 Seem y school. The W&L built on two hundred years of

The Rmgdum PM traditions would have turned into a W&L that was is 40% or 50% women. A learning environment arts education within a community that prides its
Pm‘ office Box 899 indistinguishable from any other liberal arts college. doesn’t improve just because there exists a few more self on its honor and its history. The 60/40 ‘ratio
L°"i“8‘°"’Vi'gi"i“ Preserving W&L’s heritage creates a bond be- men or women. _ _ _ allows W&Lto include women without destroying

24450 tween all graduates. As important as it is to have a Most importantly W&L should have pride in its its character. If it is altered, W&L’s great character,
703 462-4060 productive community of students on campus, it is heritage, instead oftrying to hide it.A50/50 ratiotnes which benefits both W&L men and women, will be

to hide W&L’s all-male heritage, a heritage that lost. ‘

equally important to have a productive community of

 

    

  

O

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
    
  
   
   
   
 

Spos’ SPACE
' Tom Hespos

Greetings once again, faithful read-
ers. Spos would like to start this week’s
column by issuing a death threat:
ANTED—Dead or alive (but
pre erably dead and chopped up into
little pieces with a La Machine food
processor) — that freshman guy who
went around to all 16 fraternities
and made every Greek male on this
campus sick. Spos is offering a re-
ward here. Whoever can bring me the
head of this person will receive the $5
in dimes lying on my dresser, as well as
my undying gratitude.

As you might be able to guess, Spos
has been victimized by the freshman
class’ cruel Typhoid Mary. I spent the
better part of last week in bed, occa-
siorﬁally coming out of my room to eat
meals or to gather information about
the E.C. for my alter—ego, the mild-
mannered news editor, Tom Hespos.
(Incidentally, I would like to apologize
to Professors Craun, Kozak, Richardson
and John for my poor class attendence.
l’ll (art coming to class again once my
doctor gives me some cool drugs that
can nullify this sensation that my si-
nuses are filled with butterscotch pud-
ding.)

I remember the days of my youth
when being sick was actually fun—
yoigot to stay home from school and

think about the torture your classmates
were enduringwhile you watched “He-
Man” or some similar mindless car-
toon show. These days, staying home
sick isn’t nearly as fun. Sure, you get
to think about the torture your class-
mates are enduring, but you hope to
God that someone is taking good notes
(and is willing to let you photocopy
them).

I remember vividly how this whole
sickness thing started. I was procrasti-
nating (as usual)
by playing John

Linus Pauling’s theories on vitamin-c,
I was pretty ticked.

The next morning can only be de-
scribed as pure hell. I first awoke at
5:30 in the morning for no apparent
reason and realized that the little tickle
in the back of my throat had somehow
transformed into a painful sore throat
with accompanying annoying cough. I
went downstairs to get a glass of O.J.,
just in case Mr. Pauling happened to be
correct about the vitamin-c thing. I

settled back into
bed at around

Madden Football  six a.m., bliss-
on my friend S 3 COI[llllg 0 fullyignorantof
E’‘°’S5eg“ 0”‘ class again once my Wm“ was ‘°
esis. Just as my , come,

heroic New york doctor gives me some Thecbckra-

Giants chalked
up a field goal
against the evil
P i t t s b u r g h
Steelers, I began
to feel this tick-
ling sensation in

pudding.

cool drugs that can
nullify this sensation
that my sinuses are
filled with butterscotch

dio alarm went
off at precisely
8 a.m. As I
reached over to
turn it off, I
wonderedaloud
which one of

the back of my
throat. I remem-
ber thinking about what a pain it would
be if I were to be sick on Thursday
night (which is when we friendly Ring-
tum Phi people stay up all night doing
secret newspaper production stuff). I
remember looking for my vitamin-c
pills and not being able to find them
because one of my fraternity brothers
flushed the pills down the toilet so that
he could use the container as a dice cup
for “three man.” As a firm believer in

my friends had
convinced me
to drink enough beer on a school night
to leave me with a crippling hangover.
Then I remembered that I hadn’t been
drinking the night before.

It was horrible. It felt like someone
had jammed a hot glue gun up my nose
and emptied its contents into my si-
nuses. My lungs didn’t feel so hot
either. I briefly considered getting out
of bed to go to class, but 1 instead
laughed to myself at the notion and

Spos seeks W&L’s Typhoid Mary

PAGE 9

once again cruised off into dream land.

At around 2 p.m. I awoke with a
start. One of my derelict fraternity
brothers thought it might be amusing to
kick pennies under my closed door and
into my dresser, thus making a stupid
plinking noise and waking me up. (In-
cidentally, this particular frat rat, Doug,
is the kind of guy who wipes boogers
on your doorknob for fun. Wait’ll he
finds out what Spos did to his tooth-
brush, heh-heh...)

After clubbing Doug over the head
with my Brit Lit textbook (a weighty
volume of several hundred pages), I
attempted to-go back to sleep, but found
it impossible. Eventually, I was forced
to leave my bed in order to participate
in Rush, which is the sick social tradi-
tion that started this whole thing in the
first place. Think about it— Shaking

hands with over two hundred people is -

just about the greatest way to transmit
disease. And yet we do it each and
every year, like its no big deal.

Anyway, I am still sick, even as I
write this column (Sunday night about
7). I am also getting increasingly pissed
just knowing that some freshman out
there is going to read this and laugh
uproariously, knowing that he infected
almost the entire male Greek popula-
tion.

I think I will increase the award to
$6.11 by including all of the pennies
that Doug kicked under my door. Mis-
ter Spreader-of-Disease, whoever you
are, I will find you. Prepare to make
peace with your gods.

  

MY VIEW

MICHAEL HEWLETT, ’96

One day when I got tired of looking at Oprah, I
turned to see what Maury Povich was doing. Well,
sufﬁce it to say, the show was pretty heated, which of
course caught my interest. People were yelling about
reparations for blacks after 400 years of slavery. They
wanted that 40 acres and a mule their ancestors didn’t
get after the Civil War.

During the course of the show, a white girl stood up
and said she could not understand why blacks were so
anggy. She believed that the struggle was over, and
that blacks should be happy because they have Black
History Month. I just shook my head. Why should I
be happy when Black History Month occurs ;in the
shortest month of the year? Why should I jump for joy
when it took approximately 30 years to establish a
national holiday for Martin Luther King, Jr.? Should

- I bqglad when only one month is set aside for black
history and the rest for white history? Is the black
experience that limited? Somehow I don’t think that
is what Carter G. Woodson had in mind when he
established Negro History Week in 1926.

Think about it. In all those American history
classes you’ve taken, what have you really learned
abo t the contributions of blacks. Not much except
that blacks were slaves, that there was a Civil Rights
Movement, and that in 1963, Martin Luther King, Jr.
had a dream. Oh, and Rosa Parks refused to get up. At
least that’s all I can remember learning in my history

class. Well, there was something about Frederick
Douglass, Harriet Tubman, and Booker T. Washing-
ton. Butwhat about Malcolm X? What about Marcus
Garvey or W.E.B. du Bois? What about the Buffalo
Soldiers or the Tuskegee Airmen? Did you know that
Garret Morgan, a black man, invented the gas mask
and the stop light? Or that Dr. Daniel Hale Williams
was the first man to operate on the human heart? And
who was the first woman to own a bank? Maggie L.
Walker, a black woman.

And maybe, just maybe, there was more to the
Civil Rights Movement than Martin Luther King, Jr.
Ever heard of Fannie Lou Hamer, Dorothy Height, or
Ella Baker? Besides, Shirley Chisholm ran for presi-
dent long before Jesse Jackson even talked about
“Nationtime!” And by the way, that liberation ﬂag
you always see with the colors red, black, and green
was created. by Marcus Garvey and the Universal
Negro Improvement Association in the early 1900’s:
Red stands for black blood, black stands for black
pride, and green stands for black hope.

Isn’t all this just as American as George Washing-
ton, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Abraham
Lincoln? Why wasn’t I taught about this when I took
American history? All my life l’ve heard what white
people have done for this country. I learned all about
the Founding Fathers and how they created that
magnificent document, the Constitution of the United
States. I learned about the Declaration of Indepen-
dence which declared that all men are created equal.
Everything was white, white, white. But I could never
find the black people. I’m not saying that white
people didn’t help build this country, but what I am
saying is that white Americans didn’t do it alone, not

Celebrate black history each month

when black slaves were in the ﬁeld picking cotton
and tobacco from sunup to sundown. '

Marcus Garvey once said that a people without
its history is like a tree without its root. My ances-
tors were not just slaves. As W.E.B. du Bois once
said, blacks “have fought their (white people’s)
battles, shared their sorrow, mingled our blood with
theirs, and generation after generation have pleaded
with a headstrong, careless people to despise not

. Justice, Mercy, and Truth, lest the nation be smitten

with a curse....Would America have been America
without her Negro people?”

What some people don’t seem to get is that black
history is American history. Blacks are not the only
people who need to learn about it. All Americans
should learn about it. Afrocentricity has nothing to
do with it. Black history is not just about what white
people did to black people —— it’s about what black
people have done for themselves and for this coun-
try.
Black history is about dignity, self-respect, pride,
and triumph just as much as it is about oppression,
racism, and tragedy. The black experience is rel-
evant because it is part of our collective human
experience. That is what history should ultimately
be —— the history of human experience.

Learning about black history could go a long
way in smashing racial stereotypes. It could lead to
better understanding and greater insight into the
problems of racism. Black history in its truest sense
is more than 28 or 29 days out of the year. It’s a life-
long endeavor. So if you have some time, stop by the
Maya Angelou Library in Chavis House and pick up
a book on black history. We both have a lot to learn.

LETTERS

U.S. News & World Report ranking means little

Toe the editor: '
hat’s with all the ooohing and aaahing over
W&L’s unremarkable 20th—place finish in the latest
“top colleges” issue of U.S. News and World Report
of which a more fitting name, anyway would be U.S.
Lies and World Propaganda)?

All the bafﬂing talk about how they come up with
that list really means this: it’s made up the night before
by §bunch of half-assed journalists relying on no
discoverable criteria - apart from what schools are
giving certain journalists’ dumb kids admissions
breaks that year, or what schools have promised to

4‘ Interviews and Photos

By Joe Framptom

certain journalists big-paying campus appearances in
the near future.

If you’re naive enough to doubt what I’ve just said,
think about this for a second. On this year’s list,
Haverford weighs in at number 7, while Bryn Mawr
ranks a humble 15th.

Now, as anyone who knows anything about those
two schools will tell you, students at each are always
making the short trip to the other campus to take
classes and participate in special programs and what-
not.

I once worked in Italy with a Haverford archeol-

 

ogy major who’d done most of his meaningful
academic work at Bryn Mawr, had twice studied
overseas under their auspices, and had an archeol-
ogy-type job with them. _

The point is, Haverford students and the Celticly-
named Bryn Mawr’s fine ladies get essentially the
exact same educational experience. So why the 8-
place gap?

Fine “report” there, U.S. News.

Niall MacKenzie, ’93

TALKBACK

 

Resumes

There will be a resume work-
shop on Wednesday, Oct. 13 at 4:00
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. This workshop is open to all
students.

Internships

There will be a workshop on
interships, “How to Apply,” on
Thursday, Oct. 14, at 4:00 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center.
All students interested in interships
are encouraged to attend.

Deadline

All seniors should be reminded
that the resume drop deadline for
Novembercompanies is Friday, Oct.
15 at 4:00 p.m. in the Career Devel-
opment and Placement Office.

Job Fairs

All seniors interested in partici-
pating in the SLAC job fairs in
January should be advised that the
the resume drop deadline for par-
ticipating in these job fairs is Fri-
day, Oct. 22. stop by the CDPO for
more information.

SPJ

Anyone interested in becoming
a member of the Society of Profes-
sional Journalists, please come to a
meeting Wednesday, Oct. 13 in the
Reid Hall library.

Law

“What’s a mother to do?” is the
theme of a program at ~ the
Rockbridge Regional Library on
Tuesday, Oct. 12at 7:30 p.m., spon-
sored by the Rockbridge Area
League of Women Voters. Three
local attorneys will discuss the court
systems that deal with divorce, cus-
tody, support ,visitation, and juve-
nile crime. During the program, the
league will provide child care to
supervise children in the youth sec-
tion of the library. Refreshments
will be served during informal dis-
cussions from 9:00 p.m. to 9:25
p.m.

Lost

A thin. bracelet — gray in the
middle with gold beads on the out-
side and an ordinary clasp. Please
call Corinda Hankins at 464-8874.

‘ Found

Key ring with numerous keys —
several room keys and a key for a
Ford car. Contact David at 462-
4167.

VMI Theater

Virginia Military Institute pre-
sents The Boys Next Door, a com-
edy by Tom Griffin. The show runs
from Oct. 14-16 and 21-23 at 8:00
p.m. and Oct. 17 at 2:30 pm. at
School Shipp Hall — VMI. Tickets
are $5 for adults, $3 for students
and senior citizens, and free for
cadets. Call 464-7389 or 464-7326
for reservations.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

Student Body Notice

Four freshmen students were found in violation of university policy for
smoking marijuana and drinking on campus. The following sanctions

were levied:

Student #1 — The student was givena session with Dr. Worth because
the student was given a ticket that next week by the police for drinking in

public.

1) 25 hours of community service (15 hours have to be done doing Live
Drive) to be completed by end of semester.

2) $25 fine
3) 1 session with Dr. Worth

4) Conduct probation for the remainder of the academic year. This
essentially means that if the student comes before the committee again he

will be dealt with more harshly.

Student #2 — additional community service hours were given because

this student provided the alcohol.

1) 28 hours of community service (15 hours have to be done doing Live
Drive) to be completed by the end of the semester.

2) $25 fine

3) Conduct probation for the remainder of the academic year.

Student #3 —

1) 25 hours of community service (15 hours have to be done doing Live
Drive) to be completed by the end of the semester.

2) $25 ﬁne

3) Conduct probation for the remainder of the academic year.
Student #4 - This student was given additional community service

hours for providing the marijuana.

1) 31 hours of community service (15 hours have to be done doing Live
Drive) to be completed by the end of the semester.

2) $25 ﬁne

3) Conduct probation for the remainder of the academic year.

4) 1 session with Dr. Worth.

Correction

In the Oct. 1 , 1993 issue of TheRing-tum Phi, the article, “EC to correct
error,” should have read “EC President Bob Tompkins said he wished to
discuss the situation with Assistant Controller Don Holt and past EC Vice
President Bo Russell. The Phi regrets the error.

' What is your idea of the perfect Homecoming Queen‘?

 

Mark Crider, ‘95, Russell, Ky. ——
“My girlfriend.”

Eric Shirley, ‘95, Olney, Md. —

Chris Stiehl, ‘97, Columbia, Md. -
"Shorter than 5’4”.”

“An outgoing, attractive, friendly
woman not afraid to get down and
dance.”

Matt Cannon, ‘96, Meadeville, Pa.
-— “She has to stumble around the
track.”

Justin Peterson, ‘94, Novato, Calif.
—— “Anyone with a sincere commit-
ment to world peace.”

Travis Wisdom, ‘97, Tuscaloosa,
Ala. —— “A girl who’s really hot and
' likes blond-headed guys.”

9

 

 

 

The ﬁing.-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

It’s Twister

Freshmen men and upperclassmen join together in a rush scene that could have taken place five years ago. But this scene was Friday night. Rush has been
radically changed in the last few years, but scenes like the one above have not chnaged. This year six men were taken to the hospital as a result of Tear
Night activities.

 Happy Jfomecoming ‘l/I/eeﬂencf

 

0
PAGE 10

Cadets -
racially 

s harrasseda»

h>VMl, from page 1

fused. He understood that [racially biased ca-
dets] were here, but to have it reach a point

where they are leaving threats on doors....We .

thought our parents went through that so.we
didn’t have to.”

The feeling among VMl cadets is that the
administration should have allowed the OGA
to deal with both of the situations from the
beginning.’

Scott commented on the attitude of the black
cadets. . .

“We’re looking over our shoulders,” he Qaid A

FLC launches
new year  

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The Freshmen Leadership Council is ready
to launch into the 1993-94 academic year.

The FLC was selected by Dean Mamﬂng,
following an application and interview.

“If you look at the leadership credentials of
this group, you will ﬁnd that they bring a wealth
of leadership experience from their high school
backgrounds to the university,” said Manning.

The 11-member council’s first project was
the building of a ﬂoat for Saturday’s HfQne-
coming parade. It incorporates a replica of Old
George, which has been given to the freshmen
for their use on their ﬂoat . -

“The freshmen have been really coopera-
tive. We raised over $125 from the dorms to go
towards building of the ﬂoat,” said council
member Erin Dougherty. '0

After freshman elections in two weeks, the
FLC plans a survey to see what activities the
class is interested in participating. The elected
freshman president and vice president will head
the FLC.

Members of the FLC include Sara Benson,
Adrienne Bryant, Ashley Deaton, Erin
Dougherty, Steve Fanning, Amy Gorham,
Heather Hicks, Hollis Leddy, Justin St. Clair,
Alvin Townley, and Gill Uhlhom. Alternates
are Kristin Manion, Marcus Rayner, and Allison
Simmonds.

“With our activities, we hope to keep our

class close,” Dougherty said. .
I
D.
I
. l
0
Apple Macimosb
Color Class?’ 4/80, Built-in 10"
Color Monitor and Apple Keyboard 11.
V an
The Macintoshi Color Classic‘? It offers a bright, sharp Sony Tlinitron® special financing with the Applei Computer Loan*—to make owning
display. its compact enough to fit on any desk. And right now, this already one even easier. Visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. For the ’
affordable model 1S available at an unheard-of price. You can also get power more college students choose. The power to be your best? , .,
For further information visit University Computing
111 Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud .
' ill
or call 463-8844
A *Prices do not include sales tax
‘Available ll) qualxfymg sludentr, alpartzripaling aut/Jorx'za1Apple Campus Resellers. ©1993 Apple Computer, Inc. All ngbls reserved’. Apple, lbe Apple logo, Macrrrmb and “The power lo be }mlr best" are regllrtered Irademarlzs of Apple Computer.  Classic is a registered trademark licensed la Apple campuler, Inc. 7h'm?nm is u regxlrlered lrademarlz of Sony Corporalion.

 

     
 

0
The Ring-tum Phl, October 8, 1993 smug 11

The Economics of the Citibank

Classic Visa card. How Student Discounts and Price
Protection contribute to upward growth. A variety of factors have been

1 suggested as contributing to the economic growth of students, including (1) more lottery winners
between the ages of 18 and 22, (2) a 37% increase on earnings from bottle and can returns, (3) more
students doubling earnings in the lightning round of game shows, and (4) the Citibank Classic Visa”
card. It’s this last one, however, that affects most students. 1] The Citibank Classic Visa card offers
immediate savings to student cardmembeis. You can save up to 26% on long distance calls versus AT&T
with the free Citibank Calling Service“ from MCI.‘ And you can capitalize on a $20 Airfare Discount

for domestic ﬂights? Savings on mail order pur-
g chases, sports equipment, magazines and music

i‘ also abound. Maximize these savings with a low
variable interest rate of 15.40/03 and no annual fee,

and you can significantly improve your personal

     

- .  M  a bottom line (especially if one’s net income tends
No known picture of Washington smiling exists. Economists believe Washington was
unhappy because he felt he could have received a better deal on war supplies. If he used a

1 Citibank Classic Visa card, he would have been assured of getting the best price and probably to be  gr0SS). Put another Way, One 
, would have been happier (Artist rendering of how he would have appeared on the dollar.)

even have enough savings to reinvest in a CD or two (the musical kind, of course). 11 On the way to the

record store, or any store for that matter, take stock of the 3 services concerned with purchases made on Monarch Notes® Version:
the Citibank Classic card. Citibank Price Protection assures one of the best prices. See the same item “*6 Citlbank Classic V153 93'“ will
be there for you with special stu-

advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank will refund the difference up to $150.4 To protect
. dent discounts, no fee, and a low

if these investments, Buyers Security“ can cover them against accidental damage, ﬁre or theft (ordinarily
rate. . .so your own econmny will

bemorelikeaboomthanabust.
Call 1-800-CITIBANK, ext. 19.

‘ causes for Great Depressions) for 90 days from the date of purichaseﬂ And Citibank Lifetime

 

I VVarranty““ can extend the expected service life of eligible products up to 12 years.5 ‘ll But perhaps the
features which offer the best protection are your eyes, your nose, your mouth, etc. —all featured on The
Photocard, the credit card with your photo on it. Carrying it can help prevent fraud or any hostile
takeover of your card. (Insiders speculate that it makes quite a good student ID, too.) Even if one’s card is
stolen, or perhaps lost, The Lost Wallet“ Service can replace your card usually within 24 hours. ‘ll So
never panic. As we all know, panic, such as in the Great Panics of 1837, 1857, and 1929, can cause a
downswing in a market. But with 24-hour Customer Service, there’s no reason for it. A question about
your account is only an 800 number away. (Panic of the sort experienced the night before Finals is
something else again.) 11 Needless to say, building a credit history with the support of such services can
only be a boost. You’re investing in futures—that  house, that future car, etc. And knowing the
Citibank Classic Visa card is there in your wallet should presently give you a sense of security, rare in
tbday’s—how shall we say?—ﬁckle market. 11 To apply, call. Students don’t need a job or a cosigner. And
call if you’d simply like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic Visa card. Here’s the num-
Ber: 1-800-CITIBANK, extension 19. 1] The Law of Student
Supply and Demand states, “If a credit card satisﬁes more of a
student’s unlimited wants and needs, while reducing the Risk

Factor in respect to limited and often scarce resources-—with

 

die greatest supply of services and savings possib1e—thenistu-
dents will demand said credit card.” So, demand away-call. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.

‘Savings claim is based on a 10-minute night/weekend call in the 1,911 to 3,000 mileage band using MCI’s Card Compatibility rates vs. AT&T’s standard callin card rates, etfective 4/93. Citibank Calling
Service long distance usage cannot be applied to obtain beneﬁts under any other MCI partner program or offer, including travel award programs. ‘Offer expires 6/3(§/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100.
bates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by ISE Flights only. ’The Annual Percentage Rate for purchases is 15.4% as of 8/93 and may vary rterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for c_ash

. vances is 19.8%. If a ﬁnance ch is imposed, the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional ﬁnance ch for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% oilillie amount of each cash advance transaction;
however, it will not be less than $2. or greater than $10.00. “Certain conditions and exclusions apply. Please re er to your Summary of Additional Program Infonnation. Buyers Securit is underwritten by The
Zurich lntemational UK Limited. ‘Certain restrictions and limitations apply. Underwritten by the New Hamnpshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product an is at least the minimum
based on retail industry data. Details of cove are available in your Summary of Additional Pro I ormation. Monarch’ Notes are published I; Monarch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster. 3
Paramount Communications Company. Used pennission of the publisher. Citibank credit s are issued by Citibank (South Dakota). N.A.,©l 93 Citibank (South Dakota), MA. Member FDIC.

 

    

PAGE 12

     

Men win one at last

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Never say never. Following a harsh
0-4 start, the W&L men’s soccer team
has rebounded to play improved ball in
their recent games.

While the overall record stands be-
low the .500 mark, the team has gradu-
ally improved in their last few games to
post wins in tight games. During the
last week, the Generals posted a 1-0
OT victory against Guilford. This fol-
lowed a 4-1 loss to Randolph-Macon.

The team is led by Shag Drewry
with three goals on the year. On the
whole, W&L relies on a balanced at-
tack with 13 different players posting
goals on the year. The Generals have
the potential to pick up the pace and
make a charge in the conference.

Washington and Lee sports have
come out of the gate with a stumbling
gate on the whole, but at least the men’s
soccer team has made a concerted ef-
fort to build a successful season. If the
Generals maintain their balance and
build upon their strengths, they will be
atough opponent for any team through-
out the season.

Now that the team is enjoying a 5
game homestand, they need to make up
the ground which was lost at the start of
the year. On Saturday, the Generals
play host to Dickinson College with
hopes of beginning their resurgence. It
remains to be seen whether or not the
Generals can maintain their recent suc-
cess. lf they can, then the W&L men’s
soccer team might still make some
noise in the General sports world. With
some skill and good fortune, the team
might just accomplish this goal.

 .e-...e~='

ﬁg’. 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fling-tum Phi

Soccer players struggle with a defender en route to a 3-6

record.

I5 VI. WASHINGTON ST.
LEXINGTON

' truism

THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
. HATS AND OTHER W&L SPORTWEAR
LEX|ll6TO|l'S ONLY SOOROE FOR TEVAS AND MERRILL BOOTS

WE DO MAIL ORDER!
703 464-3000

DO YOU ENJOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

Back yard skeet is fgn, l_)_ut compargg tg Spggjing ﬂags,
it’§ boring

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
to enjoy a round.

Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

Homecoming

Weekend Special
Fri. & Sat. only  ,
Fitted W&L Hats ‘ _
Reg. $16.95, on Sale
for $15.00

First Team Sports
115 W. Nelson St.

Cross-country

Is anyone surprised?

Yes, once again, sophomore
Josephine Schaeffer set a course record
and won the field of her cross country
meet.

For the fourth straight time,
Schaeffer set the record at the Frostburg
Invitational last weekend in a field of
16 teams, leading her team to fourth
place overall.

Schaeffer has yet to race a course in
which she did not win and set a course
record.

Saturday’s time was her second-
best of the season, 18:50. Sophomore
Amy Mears, ﬁnishing in eighth place,
ran a time of 20:35

On the men’s side, sophomore Brad
Paye finished in 25th place.

Paye led the Generals to a eighth
place in the Frostburg meet.

Second finisher for the Generals
was freshman Alvin Townley.

Tomorrow, the men will travel to
Lynchburg for an invitational, but the
women will remain at home to train
through the weekend.

Volleyball

Falling off their exceptional start,
the volleyball team finished in third
place at the Emory Invitational.

With a 2-4 record for the weekend,
the Generals fell to 7-8. The team
began the season with a 5-2 record,
equally the best start in school history.

W&L defeated Agnes Scott and
Methodist, and lost to Principia,
Sewannee, Oglethorpe and Emory.

This weekend the Generals travel
to the Goucher tournament.

Women’s Tennis

Junior Marilyn Baker, returning
from an All-American year, won the
singles title and helped to win the
doubles title at the Rolex South Re-
gional Championship at Mary Wash-
ington last weekend.

Teaming with sophomore Julie
Ayers, the two lost only four games in
their first three matches.

Ayers and Baker will head to the
Rolex National Championships Oct.
27-31 in Edmond, Okla.

on
The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

Valet parking....

l

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phg

Many student-athletes get a little extra exercise by riding bikes to class. Over the next few .
issues, the Phi will begin a periodic feature on outdoor sports enjoyed by Washington and

Lee students.

Groups & Clubs
Raise up to $500 - $1500 in less
than a week. Plus Win a trip to
MTV Spring Break ‘94 and get
a FREE T-shirt just for calling.
1-800-950-1039

F V

   
       
   
       
    

The
Point of View

Restaurant

NexttoDayslnn,Rt.6OWeu
463-7797

Casual Dining
Elegant Setting

- Finest Steaks
- Fresh Seafood
0 Pork Ribs
- Banquet Facilities

J

L
6 one‘

2275 Beech Ave, Buena Vista - (Behind Pina Hut)
$1.50 ANY SHOW
Now Showing
Free Willy
Rated PG

Showing Daily at 7 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 12:50 & 4:50 p.m.

Jason Goes to Hell
Rated R
Showing Daily at 9:15 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 3 p.m.

onewwv

“All You Can Eat”
BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

@300 OF POPCORN $3.9

 

Nourish yourself
for lunch
Monday - Friday
11:30 to 3:30

Carry Out
Available
463-2800

110 W. Washington St.

   
  

Shop our stores for unbeliev-
able savings on men’s and
women’s fashions. Great
  clothing from some of
America ’s most famous cata-
logue companies.

17 South Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450

TGIF Outlets

Famous Catalog & Brand Name Clothing

 W&L Homecoming ‘93

50% to
80%

OFF EVERYDAY’

Open Mon. -  V
Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 
ph. 463-9730

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

'7‘ A, .- A ‘ By STEPHEN WILLIARD ‘  ' A ’
,‘ - Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The measure of a successful athletic
., team is how it responds to pressure.

After two losses slowed the the Wash-
ington & Lee women’s soccer team,
the Generals responded in a convinc-

QUALITYANDVARIETY  . i T,  A ~ ii  _ ingmanner.

A Against Sweet Briar yesterday, the
HT _  T .' ' ' ‘ _ ‘ 5 .. W&L women outshotSweetbriar by a

 DOG  , ‘, ‘ - _ V — , , » . wide margin ina3-0 victory. Accord-

' . _ t , , . . - » ‘ . ' ‘ '  ’* ing to coach Janine Hathorne, who

. ' -  . A , ' g “ ‘I _ _ '  - maintains that Sweet Briar is experi-

  r _ , ' . ~ g ,. * 2 _' ' v. - (st encingadown year, “We hadafeeling
D . v _ - . . » ‘ , w ' v * ,

we should dominate the game and we

. -_ f . V‘ ‘ . I N ; y : - ~  " ‘ ‘ ‘V did.”
2! ; ~ ' ' . . ‘ .  . »_ _ The first goal of the game came via
_ I ‘ . . 4 ‘ _ ~ ~_ grcﬁ _ _ a new rule this year. On a pass back to

_ 4 1 V"  6 ‘ - . » the keeper, the goalie is not allowed to

pick up the ball. On the kick, Corinda
Hankins inched closer to the all-time
W&L scoring record. Michelle
Bauman and Angie Carrington scored
in the second half to put the game
away.

Following the game, the W&Lsquad

.1 
(“A

V was conﬁdent. “We’re rolling along
GROUND FRESH SEVERAL TIMES DAILY right gsgwtang gigging §eai_1grXe1I.:
acorn oa ne. em n1

79%   uMﬂ' 5 L35, Carringtgn provided some insight irgito
w[1H the team’s goals for the year, “We’re

ApDnO~A'_ definitely aiming to win ODAC.

pukc-"A55 Randolph Macon and Roanoke will be

9 tough. We’ve set that goal as a team.”

PLEASE With the win the team moves to 6
and 3 on the year. The Generals hope
I-B to enterthisseasonintothe W&Lrecord  N p
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I . b00kS 35 one Of the StI'OTlgCSt CVCT.  ‘Q 5, 
the team carries their conﬁdence and ‘E —
emotion through the remainder of the ‘ ' »
V[~E mpg season and the ODAC tournament,that - 
DUE’ K: on should be the least of their accomplish— -
P EM UER  , ments. Photos by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi 5
OM  Members of the women’s tennis team sweat their way to a 3-0

blanking of Sweetbriar Oct. 7. The Generals are now 6-3.

  

2 l.'l'R.

 

Enjoy

K,-

Trademarks ®

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

9  .R'EFG&LAR OR UTE
PREM MAYONNAISE ............ ..32 01099
BATH TISSUE zaréististsrss 69

  

~ CHlP$.............................5.5-6 oz.
. ....  ...... ...........<s4oz..
O50.  IN THE DELI-BAKERY
RoAsr mo 599
BEEF.. ...... .......T€?..Q.'3P.E.'?.....LB.

  KEEBLER PECAN SANDIES OR sruscrro VARIETIES
‘ cc mop WHITE RAIN
mam; HAIRCAREPRODUCTS

.   4-T5 OZ.

18 OZ.
  SELECTED VARlETlE$
. "M3570"! MARIE cnurunrms

"114 mrnrrs

.2/O0 2/ O0

285%‘ 13-1702.
L:

        

   

Prices Effective Through October 12, 199

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday, October 6 Through Tuesda , October 12 1993. In County Stores
Oniy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To gr,-aiers. We Giodly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

'0

 

  

Last Week:

WP—defeats GW, Johns Hopkins
WSoc—defeats Sweetbriar, loses 2
FB—Randolph-Macon 35, W&L 14
MSoc—defeats Guilford, loses 2

PAGE 14

 

bat-.iajrjid~
_ L featureacztt’ V
i . vplace"onﬂW'.ilso

S

(J11: ﬁling-mm Elﬂhi

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

File photoi

Last year’s football team, which started its season significatnly better than this year’s Generals, still failed to win
its homecoming game. The Generals have high hopes for their homecoming game Oct. 9.

St3V9’S SP01't5 Water polo hot, wins two of three
follies 0’ week

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

Ha! Now there’s something
in the world of sports that should
even interest the laziest, most
out-of-it, apathetic non-sports
fan. No, you can’t stop him, in
fact, you can’t even hope to con-
tain him—that’s right—Michael
Jordan has overtaken headlines
once again.

Here’s the scoop. If you want
to read about Michael, find the
related article (it’s in here some-
where). There are other things
happening (and I’m tired ofwrit-
ing about it). Come on, the base-
ball playoffs are underway, and
even that ghastly other sport
(football) is in full swing.

My first jab of the week goes
out to CBS. I read somethingthis
week that brought up a good
point. Why, when you spent bil-
lions of dollars on baseball TV
rights, do you televise week FIVE
football games and not the last
day of the best pennant race in
years? Oh well, it’s their money.

The National League Series
looks to be one to remember. If
Wednesday’s game was any in-
dication, this one might rival last
year’s Pirate series. The Phillies
(those horrid scrubs) won in 10
innings 4-3. However, last night
the Braves responded with a
crushing offensive explosion
against a marcescent Philly pitch-
ing staff. The teams move to At-
lanta tied at one game apiece.

Unfortunately, the American
League series looks to be a wash.

After two games in Chicago, it’s
2-0 Toronto. The Sox have quite
a task (winning two out of three
in Toronto) if they plan to scratch
back into the series.

Moving to football, there is
now a great reason to root for the
Philadelphia Eagles. After
Cunningham broke his leg in
Sunday ’s game, the starting quar-
terback is named Bubby. Maybe
the Jets willwinthe AFC, andthe
superbowl could feature those
two wild, wacky, washed-up
quarterbacks——Bubby and
Boomer. Nah, that would pro-
vide too much CREATIVE ma-
terial for the announcers to
handle.

Parting Shots—-

Hockey season has started.
Didn’t they just ﬁnish?

Florida State plays Miami in
college football this weekend.
Florida State is out to prove that
you can actually win big games
on field goals instead of losing.
How many teams direct their re-
cruiting to obtain a kicker...just
to beat one team. Maybe this
year it will go THROUGH the
uprights.

Whoa...l just found out that
there was a professional indoor
soccer league. The fan interest
seems to be surprisingly high. I
mention this because the com-
missioner (Ron Weinstein) gets
my understatement award for the
week. When asked about low at-
tendance in Los Angeles, he said:
“We think it’s an awareness prob-
lem.” I am constantly amazed by
the perceptiveness that is ram-
pant in professional sports. Have
fun until next week.

tournament has been cancelled.

By SARAH GILBERT _ _ _
The Virginia State Tourna-

Phi Sports Editor

ment, set for this coming week-

Talk about comeback kids.

Washington and Lee water
polo has turned another page in
the “Impossible Things That
Never Really Happen” book.

In the fourth quarter ofa game
versus George Washington last
weekend, the Generals scored
eight unanswered goals to squeak
out with a 14-13 win.

Not only did the water polo
squad out-do every fan’s wildest
water polo dream, goalie David
Silvester finished the game with
a bang by saving the game on
George Washington’s ﬁnal shot,
attempted with three seconds re-
maining in the game.

The reader may not be sur-
prised to hearthat this weekend’s

end in Twombly Pool, was can-
celled. Speculations as to why or
who caused the extinction of this
meet will be allowed to run free
(they’re scared).

The win over George Wash-
ington, combined with a victory
over Johns Hopkins, 23-19, and
a defeat at the hands of 12th-
ranked Princeton, brings the
Generals’ record to a solid 7-6
on the season.

A .584 is nothing to complain
about, especially in a season that
Coach Page Remillard tagged as
the toughest a Washington and
Lee water polo team has ever
faced.

In an interview before the
Eastern Water Polo Association

This Week:

FB—Davidson, 10/09

VB—at Goucher 10/09
MTennis—W&L Fall Classic 10/09 .
WSoc—Guilford 10/09

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Staff Writer

The Generals’ football team
is still looking for its elusive ﬁrst
win, as it fell 35-14 to Randolph-
Macon last Saturday. -

Washington and Lee was
never able to get its passing game
going, completing j ust two passes
for a meager seven yards. The
lone bright spot for the air attack
was an eight-yard touchdown
pass in the ﬁrst quarter from fresh-
man Brooks Fischer to Haynes
Hodges. This score tied the game
and the Generals seemed to have
a chance.

But W&L never really got
anything else in gear as
Randolph-Macon proceeded to
score three more touchdowns
before the fourth quarter to lead
28-7. Before the third quarter
ended, however, the Generals put
together a 70-yard drive, culmi-
nating in a 1-yard touchdown run
by fullback Wilson Moore.
Randolph-Macon added one
more score in the fourth quarter
to seal the victory.

Despite the trials of the pass-
ing game, the Generals did mount
an impressive running attack.
Senior tailback Tom Mason
posted some outstanding num-
bers, rushing for 118 yards on 18

crossover tournament, Remillard
mentioned that it was necessary
to win two of three to keep hopes
of post-season play alive for the
Generals.

After an early-season loss to
Johns Hopkins, W&Lmight have
paled at the opportunity. But they
rose to the occasion, barely hold-
ing on to the GW win and sailing
over Johns Hopkins.

In the future for the Generals
is a home game against Rich-
mond Oct. 22. During the long
lay-off between now and then,
the Generals should be working
on Remillard’s goal, of pulling
off at least one big upset this
year

“There is something out there
for us, and we are working very‘
hard to get it,” Remillard said.

He praised his team for their

OCTOBER 8, 1993

nrals celebrate homecoming

O
carries. He also set up Wh
W&L’s touchdowns with lon
runs of 33 and 32 yards, respe
tively. Moore carried the ball ju
six times, but racked up 45 yard
Freshman J.P. Josephson als
contributed 26 yards.

There was a bright spot ‘an th
defensive side of the bal als
Sophomore defensive tackl
Robert Hull had twelve tackle:
including four sacks. He lea-
the team in tackles, with 34 c‘
the season.

The loss dropped the Gene
als to 0-3 overall and 0-2 t
Old Dominion Athletic Confer
ence.

This weekend Washingto
and Lee faces Division I-AA fo
Davidson, as the Wildcats corn
to Wilson Field for homecom
ing. Last year, the Geﬁfral
gained 405 yards in total offens
in a 27-12 victory over the Wild
cats. W&L will try to put it al
together for their first win. Kick
off is set for 2:00. ,

Though the Generals have no
won a homecoming gamg. fo
three years (the last homecom
ing win for Washington and Le
was against Hampden-Sydney i '
1991, 21-7), that leaves at least (-
few members of that original glo
rious homecoming-game-win
ning team still ﬁghting ft; th
Warriors.

 

ability to work together.

“We work really well as
unit,workingtowardsacomm
goal,” he said. “They are all fa
inginto doing theirjobverywe
We’ve got our punters puntin
and our ﬁeld goal kickers kic
mg.”

Among the shining stars a
the weekend were junior Dere
DeVries, senior Jacob Berrna
and freshman James Silbegstei

DeVries had five goals, an
both Berman and Silberstei
scored four.

Silvester has kept up his ste
lar work in goal, failing to allo
George Washington a single go
in the ﬁnal quarter of that am

For the rest of the season, sai
Remillard, the Generals inten
to “come out with all our gun
smoking.”

Water Polo

Volleyball
Men’s Soccer
Football

Overall

1993 Team Records

Women’s Tennis
Women’s Soccer

Men’s X-Country
Women’s X-Country

1-0 .
5-3
7-6 I
1-1
1-1 I
7-8

3-6
0-3

25-28

Jordan hangs up shoes,’

I

but comes out on top ‘

Every sport has legends. Babe Ruth, Joe Louis, Gordy Howe,
and Jim Thorpe will always be a part of the collective concsiousness
of America. Michael Jordan gained entry into that select club of
athletes Tuesday with his retirement from basketball.

Jordan’s name gained national notice with his famous jump
shot in the 1982 national championship game that gave the
Tarheels the title. Since then, the freshman who sometimes left
the venerable Dean Smith at a loss for words has travelled a long
road. Eleven years, two gold medals, three world titles, and a
handful of M.V.P. awards laterthe man who dominated the N.B.A
has called it quits for good.

In his public statement regarding the momentous decision,
Jordan said, “I have always stressed that when I lose the sense of
motivation and the sense to prove something as a basketball
player, it’s time to leave. It’s_ not because I don’t love the game.
I just feel l’ve reached the pinnacle of my career. I don’t have
anything else to myself to prove.”

One must admire the courage of Michael Jordan. In an age
dominated by high priced athletes dragging dead careers an extra
year, Jordan’s decision is a refreshing alternative: the superstar
who goes out on top. Jordan joins the ranks of such standouts as
Jim Brown, Rocky Marciano, and Sandy Koufax in leaving while
ahead of the game.

The basketball world will miss Michael Jordan. According to
Bulls owner Jerry Rheinsdorf, “It would take 30 or 40 years to get
somebody 75% as good as Michael Jordan.” Along with Magic
Johnson and Larry Bird, Jordan helped revitalize the NBA. Air-
Jordan left behind a legacy of moments and ability that will never
be equalled. Each year fans waited to see what impossible plays
he could turn out. With Michael, every shot, steal, block, rebound
and assist was a new adventure.

No athlete can perform forever. There comes a time when the
glory and cheers are in the past. For many that time comes when
the body canno longer perform to the same level that created the
legend. Nolan Ryan and George Brett, two other 1993 retirees,
come to mind. No-one enjoys the retirement of a truly great
athlete, but Jordan’s announcement hits especially hard because
of his status and young age.

Now that Michael has quit basketball, he will have added time
to spend with friends and family. And what is the ﬁrst thing he
plans to do? “I’m going to watch the grass grow, and then go cut
it.”

’v'/

  

-i‘

K

 

wt

 

