  

‘ ‘r
n
A

,I\\—l_._‘ v,..a lvr --‘

LEXINGTON, VA 24-450

OCT 0 4 I993

 

 



  
   

@ .\-

 —~
. 
"' \ V .

' - . o

.. , -

‘.__; v - ' .

  W&L Celebrates
 top 20 ranking

   

Women ’s soccer
hits hot streak

  

 

U112 ‘ﬂing-tum ljﬂlii

VOLUME 93, NO. 04

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 1, 1993

ECto
correct
error

By THOMAS Hesros
Phi News Editor

/

Everything you ever needed
to ﬂow you learned in Kinder-
ga n: share your toys, don’t run
with scissors, and above all, when
you borrow something, give it
back. .

At Monday’s regular meeting
of the Executive Committee,
Publications Board President An-
thoﬁy Catalano and Publications
Board Advisor Brian Richardson
showed up to ask that the EC do
exactly that—retum what is right-
f u l I y
theirs.

A bud-
geting er-
ror in 1989
resulted in
the Pub
Board’sre-
serve fund
b e i n g
knocked
down by

$ 5 , 7 0 0 .

 

 
 
  
 
 
  

 
    
    
  
   
  
 

Tompkins

 

spring, af-
ter Richard Peltz and Cathryn
Lopiccolo appeared before the
 on behalf of the Pub Board,
then-E.C. President Josh
MacFarland admitted a
discrepency and deferred taking
any action because of the E.C.’s
ﬁnancial situation at the time.
MacFarland agreed to reimburse
the ub Board when it received
money at the year’s end. This
never occurred.

On Monday, Catalano and
Richardson asked the E.C. to
correct the error, saying that the
Pub Board never voted to ap-
prqye the transfer of the $5,700.

    
  
     
 
 
 
  
  
  
   

Thieves strike
student autos

Last’

 

I->See EC, page 7

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-mm Phi

A Chemistry Project

W&L Security confiscated this marijuana-smoking device recently. The bong is
made from materials “borrowed” from the chemistry department. A member of
the chemistry department found the bong during the summer and turned it over
to security. Among the items confiscated by security this year: beer kegs and
beer funnels. Director of Security Mike Young said security returns kegs to the
distributor after confiscation. Two kegs were taken early this year, while over 30
were taken during the course of last year. —-Ethan Krupp

By THOMAS Hesros
Phi News Editor

If you park your car in a uni-
versity lot overnight, you should
probably reconsider.

Thieves have hit at least three
student cars in the past week and
a half, breaking side windows
and removing car stereos.

“My door window had been
broken out,” said freshman Ja-
son Barton, describing how
thieves broke into his Mitsubishi
Eclipse in the freshman parking
lot.

Barton said thieves removed
his Alpine CD player from the
dashboard of his car. Washing-
ton and Lee Security called
Barton at 2:30 a.m. on Friday
morning to inform him that his
car had been broken into. Secu-
rity also called freshman Philip
Jordan after determining that

Jordan’s car had also been bro-
ken into.

“Somebody knocked out the
small vent window,” said Jor-
dan.

Jordan’s CD player was also
removed from his car. .lordan’s
car alarm was set off by the
thieves, but the thieves entered
the engine compartment and cut
the wire that provided power to
the alarm system, thus silencing
it. Between Barton and Jordan,
$1,300 worth of property was
damaged or stolen.

Perhaps the same thieves vic-
timized senior Leland Yee, who
had his window smashed and his
stereo stolen. Yee described his
stereo as “a cheap model.”

“You’d think they would at
least take a decent one,” said
Yee, who reported only $190
worth of damage on the police
report.

Yee’s car was parked in the
university lot near the Lenfest
Center when it was burglarized.

Chief Bruce Beard of the Lex-
ington Police Department said
the police have some suspects in
the break-ins. According to
Beard, Washington and Lee Se-
curity ofﬁcers also have some
suspects of their own.

“W&L Security saw some
suspiciouslookingvehicles,” said
Beard.

According to Jordan, police
may attempt to apprehend the
criminals by taking ﬁngerprints
from the car. All three victims
have ﬁled reports with the po-
lice.

Yee found some irony in the
situation.

“I survived an entire summer
in D.C.,” he said, “and I get back
here, and what’s the first thing
that happens to me?”

IFC hands down
Rush violations

By NANCY PAvLov1C
Phi Managing Editor

As Tear Night draws near, two more fraternities
join Pi Phi in the ranks of those who have violated
Rush rules.

Phi Delta Theta and Chi Psi each received Rush
violations stemming from two separate incidents
which occurred last week.

Chi Psi received the violation for breaking
closed contact rules. Under closed Contact rules,
freshmen and upperclassmen fraternity members
cannot talk to each other. According to Chi Psi
President John Hudson, the violation occurred last
Tuesday after Rush Open House Night number

“You’re not supposed to have contact after 9
p.m.,” Hudson said. “Some guys were talking to the
freshmen at the house after the open house.”

Hudson said a freshman who was not at the
house reported the incident.

“He knew the guys that were here and took it
upon himself to tell a Rush Counselor who in turn
took it upon himself to bring it to the IFC,” Hudson
said.

Phi Delt received their violation when members
of the fraternity purchased beer for some freshmen
men, lnterfratemity Vice President Ryan Donaldson
said.

hvsee RUSH, page 6

 

TWO.

 

By NANCY PAvLovic
Phi Managing Editor

 
 
 

 
 

A non-tenured professor will make Washington
and e history as she challenges her department’s
decision to not renew her contract.

Assistant Professor of English Demaree C. Peck
ﬁled an appeal with the President’s Advisory Com-
mittee Friday, Sept. 24, requesting a review of the
English Department’s decision to not continue her
contract.

“In essence, it is a denial of tenure,” Peck said. “It
cuts short my probationary period by two years. I
had not been led to expect that decision.”

Peck, who joined the faculty in 1988 as an in-
structor in English, began a four-year probationary
period for a tenure track position in the department
the following fall. Candidates for a tenured position

  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  

must complete a six-year probationary period before
being considered for tenure. Peck would have been
up for a tenured position in 1994-95.

However, in May of 1993, the eight tenured mem-
bers of the English department examined a portfolio
of material which included student evaluations, re-
views by faculty who had visited her class, letters
solicited by the department from all her former stu-
dents as well as three articles she has had published
and several chapters from her book on Willa Cather.
According to English Department Head Edwin D.
Craun, the department followed the procedures out-
lined in the University Faculty Handbook in consid-
ering her case. Under these procedures, her job per-
formance must be evaluated in three areas, namely
teaching effectiveness, intellectual achievement and
academic citizenship. It was at this time that the

Professor appeals decision

Craun however would not comment on the spe-
cific reasons for her dismissal in order to protect
Peck’s privacy.

“We are not allowed to make anything but the
most general statements,” he said.

Peck though is not sure how or why the depart-
ment arrived at its decision.

‘‘I can’t really speak about the English
department’s decision because I don’t really know
what they considered,” she said. “They told me they
were not going to renew my contract because of
deficiencies in academic citizenship and deﬁcien-
cies in teaching which have not been speciﬁed. I
don’t understand the decision; it hasn’t been ex-
plained to me.”

After classes ended last spring, Peck began look-

I->See PECK, Page 7

   

  
  
   

  
  
  
  
   

  
  
  
 
 

  
   
 
   
   
  

department opted not to renew her contract.

By MICHAEL Hswusrr
Phi Staff Writer

Virginia Military Institute has submitted
a federal court a proposal to resolve the
controversy over whether women should be
admitted to VMI. According to a copy of the
“VMI Defendants’ Proposed Remedial Plan”,
a Virginia Women’s Institute for Leadership
would be established at Mary Baldwin Col-
lege. Virginia Tech would maintain its co-
educational Corps of Cadets. The Leader-
ship Institute would be open to all qualiﬁed
women and will in some ways be similar to
VMI.

In the proposal VMI cited numerous times
the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court of
Appeals which found that a single—gender
undergraduate institution is justified and can
., be beneﬁcial “for young women who may be
otherwise be denied leadership opportuni-
ties in coeducational settings.” Under the
ruling the state must establish an equal edu-
cational opportunity to women that is similar
to VMI. VMI assertsthat its plan satisﬁesthe
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. According to Crista Kcade.
Director of Institutional Advancement at

  
  
   
 

    

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
f irginia Military Institute cadets in formation

Mary Baldwin, said that the 4th Circuit Court
will hear debate on the plan on January 6,.

Public Relations Director Lt. Col. Mike
Strickler said that Governor Wilder has ap-
proved of the plan. According to Strickler,
a subcommitte consisting of two members
of VMI ’s Board of Visitors, two members of
Mary Baldwin’s Board of Visitors, and ﬁve
members of the govemor’s staff will over-
see the program on a continous basis.

As opposed to women schools such as
Southern Virginia School for Women, Mary
Baldwin was chosen primarily because it
was a four year college and has had long
tradition of educating women, according to
Strickler.

Kcade said that the academic faculty on
September 24 accepted the concept of the
Virginia Women’s Institute for Leadership
as being in line with the school’s
committment to educating women by a vote
of 52-8. She stresses, however, that no
specific plans for the Leadership Institute
have been made.

Kcade said that the president, Cynthia H.
Tyson has endorsed the plan, but an aca-
demic curriculum has not been established.

Strickler says that students in the Leader-
ship Institute would be lodged in the regular
dormitories, but once the number reaches

VMI proposes compromise

I->See VMI, page 6

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

A student uses one of Annie’s terminals. Annie is now equipped
with more features, which will make research easier, than before.

Annie’s new dress
Computer gets a face lift

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

The students and staff of Washing-
ton and Lee now have more access than
ever to electronic information.

The W&L on-line catalogue, named
“Annie,” is available to all computer
users with Liberty accounts. Through
Annie, users can access a wide array of
information around the world.

Annie is updating its technology.
“Two years ago it would not have been
possible to do this,” said Hugh
Blackmer, a reference assistant at
Leyburn Library. Blackmer regularly
updates the system’s resources.

Part of the new system includes
Gopher, a campus-wide information
system. It is internationally connected
to list electronic periodicals according
to subject. Blackmer and other pro-
grammers regularly choose and catego-
rize new electronic periodicals to add
under the various headings. In addition,
Gopher now contains several step-by-
step guides to using the computer sys-
tem itself.

Blackmer said that the Gopher sys-
tem is constantly being updated. He
said that professors could even put their
lecture notes on the computer system
for students to retrieve at their leisure.

bsee ANNIE, page 6

    

_PAGE2

rihe amg-tum am

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Lock it up

It is a frustrating feeling. You walk out to your car to
drive out to Wal-Mart or McDonald’s or whatever and you
find a surprise: your window is smashed. That’s not all...
several valuables are missing, including your car stereo.

If you read our story on automobile break-ins this week,
you will soon realize that this is not happening just in New
York or Los Angeles. It is happening right here in
Lexington. In fact, it is happening right here on our
campus.

Problems like this are extremely frustrating. After all,
you can’t sit around watching your car all day long. The
bottom line is this: If thieves want to get at the contents of
your car, there is very little you can do to stop them.

What you can do is try to make your car look less
inviting to a burglar. Locking doors is not enough. If you
have valuables in your car, cover them with a jacket or a
towel. If you have a pull-out stereo or a removable face-
plate, take it with you. If you have a car alarm, arm it.

Truly, having to invest in an auto security system in
Lexington is sad, but it is a sadder experience to come out
to the car one morning to find a surprise. We are used to
leaving our personal belongings around campus and find-
ing them in the same place when we return. It is time for
Washington and Lee students to realize that despite the
honor system that governs our lives, we are not living in
a theft-free world. One can almost see how an outsider
could consider W&L a thieves’ paradise. Students leave
the tops on their convertibles down and merrily skip along
to class, without a single concern in the world, leaving
valuables out in the open. If we were thieves, we would
probably spend some time in Lexington, too.

So, don’t trust the world. The world does not live by the
Honor System.

Separate
and not equal

Soon a judge will decide whether or not Virginia Military
Institute’s proposal for remedying their co—education problem
is suitable. If the judge likes the plan, Mary Baldwin will
become the home of the Virginia Women’s Institute for Lead-
ership and VMI will go on as it has since its beginnings.

  
 

..
The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1993

{S M4
“gsmg
LE. <‘.rtM°"€5
ts: srnﬁl‘ “’
-ex: -
M
3l,t,.:.$‘Let5 F9“ “E
 G'R°°P-"
o
0
0

EC fails to live up to its statements

Last year, Amnesty lntemational received a yearly
allowance from the Executive Committee of $700.
Last week, the Committee broke with precedent and
docked their yearly allowance for bad behavior. What
was Amnesty guilty of?

They engaged in “ideologically partisan” behavior
with the campus pa-
riah — the W&L chap-

Minority Student Association also could be consid-
ered “ideologically partisan” on the basis that they
deal with gender or racial issues. Yet all of them

receive EC funding.
There are two ways the EC could resolve this
conﬁict. One would be to cut the funding of all those
organizations mentioned and en-
courage them all to start having

ter of the American
Civil Liberties Union.

 

Andrew

bake sales. The other would be to
throw out the policy of not funding

Last November, “ideologically partisan” groups.
Amnesty lntemational S e The second option would seem
chnelder . .
and the W&L ACLU ’ to be the wiser one for a liberal arts
co-sponsored an ex— ’94 institutionlike W&L. The ﬁrst pay-
hibit in the main foyer off of a policy to fund all legitimate
of the Leybum Library student groups, regardless of ide-
entitledA Critical Ex- ology, would be to increase the
aminationoftheDeath diversity of thought on this cam-

Penalty. The exhibit was a thought provoking educa-
tional display of library books, statistical information
and other factual material supporting both groups’
belief that the death penalty is a violation of human
rights.

The Executive Committee refuses to fund any
group which takes a position on controversial issues
such as capital punishment. The EC likes to call such
groups “ideologically partisan.” They believe by “ap-
proaching issues of national politics with complete
neutrality,” they can best serve the W&L community.

If the truth be known, the Executive Committee is
not living up to its own ideals. How can the Executive
Committee claim that it is completely neutral to issues
of national politics when they fund groups like the
AIDS Education Project? Is not AIDS prevention,
like the death penalty, a politicized national issue?
How about the Outing Club and their promotion of
recycling? Women’s Forum, Men’s Panel and the

pus.
The EC’s claim that a diversity of student groups

education.

The Executive Committee erroneously believes
scrapping their current policy will automatically
result in a sudden proliferation of student groups
immediately inundating the BC with requests. Their
fears are clearly unwarranted as one can see jusgby
looking across the ravine how the law school ably
manages to fund all of their organizations regard-
less of a group’s ideology.

Finally, the EC is fond of making the argument
that the Graham-Lee-Washington Society and the
Contact Committee, both of which receive EC
funding, fulﬁll the campus need for intellecyial
discourse and the free ﬂow of ideas. Unfortunately,
the Executive Committee does not appreciate the
vitality and energy which politically oriented groups
bring to the intellectual discourse and free ﬂow of
ideas on campus. A completely neutral and sani-
tized debate society and speakers bureau cannot ﬁll
this need alone.

can exist without their funding is nothing more than The Executive Cam-
an empty promise. While mittee, during last
C°n591'V3liV° °TganiZ3' T week’sbudgetdelibera-
tionslike the Washington - lions, ll 5 ‘ lcall

& Lee Spectator can sur- he first P513.’ off of a policy shown itgeifllgnbe th:
viveoomfortably without t0 fund all legitimate student most ideologically par- '

the EC’s patronage, many
non-conservative groups
could only survive with
the EC’s backing. The
Spectator beneﬁts from

groups, regardless of ideology,
would be to increase the diver-
sity of thought on this campus.

tisan organization
around. Their decision
toshutthefundingvault
on Amnesty’s face

an extensive alumni sup-
port network that is just
not available to non-conservative groups. Thus refus-
ing to fund all “ideologically partisan” organizations
would result in a vitually one-sided exchange of ideas

on campus— certainly not beﬁtting of a liberal arts:

while keeping on the
payroll other ideologi-
cal organizations has the
stench of blatant “political correctness.“ Hopefully
the EC will sensibly rectify this situation in a tirrﬁly
fassion before Amnesty and the ACLU are forced

The proposal looks very nice‘ onitjs sdffacé. §BiI‘,t,th'e' l')r'dp'Osal
raises a question that goes beyond wh‘ether_”VMI‘s'hou1d*be‘co-
ed or not. The proposal will create another state-‘funded insti-
tute that will supposedly give women the same leadership and
military skills that men receive at VMI. Proponents of the new
plan say that women and men learn differently and build
confidence and character in different ways. There are not too
many people that would be willing to argue against this point.
But will the separate institutions provide the same opportuni-
ties for their graduates?

Before any judge okays this plan, that judge needs to sit
down and think deeply about its consequences. That judge
needs to ask some tough questions that may not be easily
answered. VMI graduates have many opportunities for state
jobs because they are VMI graduates. Will a woman who has
graduated from Baldwin’s Leadership program be given those
same opportunities? Will the military embrace one of Baldwin’s
graduates as it does VMI’s graduates?

These are not meaningless questions. If the state intends to
create an equal opportunity for women, it has to make sure that
opportunity is equal on all levels. Unfortunately, history has
shown that separate usually does not mean equal.

Quote of the Week

Hey, pull up a chair.
No thanks, I’ll just sit down.
—Two W&L students at Spanky ’s last weekend

@1112 iﬂtng-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assitant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Willard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Address thepoorindiv

Last week I saw something that we
who are wrapped in our tight little
cocoons of parental support rarely
glimpse—the real face of poverty.
“Joshua,” as I shall call him for
anonymity’s sake, is neither devil nor
saint. He is neither wholly respon-
sible for his plight nor free of guilt.

Joshua is 46 years old. He has no
marketable skills. His last job was

Joshua’s wife, you see, is handi-
capped. She is burdened by a debili-
tating and eventually fatal disease that
conﬁnes her to a wheelchair. When
the state learned that Joshua’s time
working at Hardee’s left Matthew at
home with his mother, they intervened.
Because his wife could not adequately
care for her child, the state insisted
Joshua not leave the child alone with

 

part-time her. Failure
minimum- to comply
wage work at with this di-
Hardee’s, on r e c t iv e
which he and Ryan would have
his wife resulted in
“ b a r e I y l)ennard9 Matthewbe-
scraped by.” ’94 ing taken
Before he into the cus-
was married, tody of the
Joshua was state.
regularly in Because

trouble with the law. Released from
prison without a way to support him-
self, he soon turned to petty theft,
stealing small items from local apart-
ments and then selling them. While he
has, by all appearances, put those par-
ticular misdeeds behind him, they
surely help to account forthe ﬁnancial
situation he now ﬁnds himself in.

While a part-time job and marriage
seemed to bode well for Joshua, new
trouble soon arrived in the unlikely
form of a child. The third member of
Joshua’s family is a blonde haired,
blue eyed beauty of a boy, eighteen
months of age. “Matthew’s” face
glows like the sun on a weekend mom-
ing and his constant curiosity leads
one to think the child would be of
some promise were his social situa-
tion improved.

Joshua clearly loves the child and
maybe it is fatherhood that has ﬁnally
tamed his less desirable impulses. He
handles Matthew with a love and pa-
tience that I have seen in few fathers.
Joshua’s son has brought joy into his
life, but he has also brought difﬁcul-
ties.

minimum wage will not pay for a
baby-sitter, Joshua quit his regular
job and now does odd jobs on which
he can take his son. That is how I met
Joshua. He was going from door to
door, carrying Matthew, asking if there
were any chores he might do.

Odd jobs have not provided enough
to support the family and they have
sold most of their meager possessions.
Their house is no larger than one of
ourclassrooms. It makes my run-down
apartment look like middle-class com-
fort. Unable to pay their bills, they
have now had their gas shut off, and
they have been unable to bathe for a
week. They have no phone. They have
no car and Joshua must hitchhike (with
Matthew) to ﬁnd work or purchase
diapers. So Joshua goes door to door
refusing handouts but begging work.

People do not like to see poverty
and as a consequence they do not like
to see Joshua. Often, when he knocks
on a door looking for menial work, the
police are quickly called and he is
chased off as a nuisance.

Perhaps Joshua is a nuisance, es-
pecially when he intrudes on our two

car garages and white picket fences,
but there are other questions that need
to be asked. Just what is this man
supposed to do? We wish he did not
exist, that this suffering did not con-
front us. But he does exist, and we
should wonder how we would support
ourselves and our family were we in
his shoes.

It is not a half-ﬁctional, emotional
portrait that I have painted. These are
simply the facts. There are, of course,
other facts, which will either allow
you to push the image of this man
from your mind with a clear con-
science, or, if you still care, will strike
a chord of helplessness about the whole
issue.

Joshua’s troubled past may be rel-
evant, but he has also contributed to
his troubles in the present. While they

cannot pay their gas bill, the family-

has a dog. Be-
sides the expense
of feeding it, the
dog’s recent ad-
ventures in a
neighbor’s yard
cost Joshua 75
dollars in ﬁnes.
That is what led
to his inability to
pay his gas bill.
Joshua also
smokes, to the

People do not like to
see poverty, and as a
consequence they do
not like to see Joshua.
Often, when he knocks
on a door looking for
menial work, the police

.,to getrouttheir baking sheets.

iclually  

,0

them. ‘

Most of all, Joshua has been incredibly
short-sighted. You cannot sell your pos-
sessions forever. And what long-terrn good
could it do to pay off his gas bill? It would
only be turned off again when he vgas
unable to pay next month. Joshua is very
juvenile in that he seems unable to grasp
and deal decisively with the big picture
and instead lives day to day.

The decisions people make are impor-
tant. We want to help but we do not want
to throw money away, either. We want
Joshua, and those like him, to be resp<9n-
sible. But what do we do if someone is
willing to make a clean start? Does it
matter that sometime in the past they may
have laid the foundation of their current
troubles? Perhaps.What if the problems
come from decisions made in ignorance
rather than malice? What about Matthow
and those like him? How do we help the
child without sup-
porting the irre-
sponsibility of the
parent?

I have asked
plenty of qu@-
tions, but cannot
begin to give an-
swers. Maybe
there are no an-
swers. In the end
the points I want to
make are simlje

tuneofacartona are quickly called and ones. We should
week.Withciga- he is chased off as a acceptthatpoverty
rettes selling . resultsfromacom-
anywhere from nulsance° bination of bad
tentoﬁfteendol- luck and bad
larsacarton, it is choices. Denying

striking when Joshua claims he can-
not afford the fourteen dollar round-
trip taxi fare to get to the food bank.

Once these shortcomings are
pointed out, he does indicate a will-
ingness to remedy them. But these
problems say something about how
Joshua arrived at his present circum-
stance. He has clearly made bad
choices, and he is clearly paying for

eitheris denying reality and makes it mo e
difﬁcult to reach lasting solutions. e
should acknowledge poverty where it ex-
ists. Fear and loathing will only make it
worse. We should come to grips with what
we are willing to do, both as individuals
and as a society, remembering that failure
to act as individuals leaves more to do

a society. And, most importantly, xx
should care.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Pub|icationsBoardelectstheexecutiveeditorandbusinessmanager,butTheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Advertising does not reflect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

LETTERS

Professor praises coverage '

To the editor: _

I am writing this letter not only to the editors, but
to all students who have contributed to the first issues
of this year’sRing-tum Phi. Last year, I found the Phi
to be about the worst college rag I had ever seen —
anywhere. Its negative tone and salacious fixations
were an embarrassment to many members of the
community.

As a newly recruited faculty member, I felt so

demoralized by the Phi that I soon stopped reading it.
Had we moved to Washington and Lee or to Sodom
and Gomorrah, I wondered! Happily, this dismal
period in the Phi ’s history now seems to have ended.
Once again, people are writing about what is interest-
ing and important to all of us: health care, alcoholism
on campus, cultural diversity, and ﬁlms — not just
about fraternity brawls. Usually, the quality of a
college newspaper is a reflection of the quality of the

college itself. A good college therefore needs and
deserves, a good student paper. Now that we again
have one, let’s keep it that way. Keep up the good
work! .

Winston Davis
Professor of Religion

 

 

 

Fhe Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1993

OPINION

Wrestlemania invades Lexington

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

. The other day I was sitting in the
Ring-tum Phi office (or, as we call it,
“Shangri-Phi,”) reading other peoples’
computer ﬁles and listening to the ra-
dio. '
At the end ofa WREL “music mix”
gvhich typically consists of successive
ngs by Elton John, Metallica, Barney
the Dinosaur, James Brown, and
Zamﬁr, master of the pan ﬂute), the
disk jockey came on the air and an-
nounced that the fourth person to call
the WREL studio line would win two
tickets for World Championship Wres-
tflng in Roanoke with Ravishing Rick

Rude and Ric “Nature Boy” Flair. It
was not necessary to know the answer
to a trivia question or anything; you
just had to be the right caller. This was
a contest that required no talent, and
since I don’t have any, I called in.

G The disk jockey picked up and in-
formed me that I had won. A few min-
utes later, he aired our recorded con-
versation, which included my sponta-
neous comment that “I have really been
looking forward to seeing WCW wres-
tling.”

. Phi Art Director Phil Carrott wit-
nessed my excitement in the ofﬁce at
having won. This included several rebel
yells, setting off of small ﬁreworks, a
prank call to Carol Calkins, and several
shots at the Phi dart board with some
X-Acto knives. I then decided that a

i all-expense-paid trip to Roanoke
was in order, to investigate the news-
worthy effects of fat sequined men
tackling each other and their impact on
Washington and Lee students (me).

Accompanied by my friend and pro-
fessional wrestling aﬁcionado Nick,we
arrived in Roanoke expecting all of the
sports world’s major ﬁgures, as well as
all of the networks, to be on hand for
the upcoming match. However, we
were met at the parking lot by a traffic
attendant, who was simultaneously di-
recting us to a lot and trying to calcu-
late the black market value of our car’s
spare parts.

Before I go on, I must take a minute
to say that I, as a habit, do NOT attend
WCW events, except whenever 1) they
are free 2) I am really bored, and 3) I
want to hang out with the cultural elite
of southwest Virginia.

I must emphasize how elite the
crowd was: they tucked in their WCW
T-shirts and spit into cups instead of
onto the ﬂoor. They stood in line to
purchase copies of WCW magazine
which was touted, various times over
the loudspeaker throughout the
evening, as pretty much the authority
on Ricky “The Dragon” Steamboat’s
family life, the break-up of the British
Bulldogs, and Arne Anderson’s new
line of action ﬁgures.

Nick and I took our seats and waited
for the match. After several minutes,
the stadium lights dimmed, and sud-
denly there was a distinctive white
light reﬂecting from the WCW wres-
tling mat and the voices of angels were
singing in the background (or maybe it
was the non-stop screams from the
groups of 14-year-old boys sitting near
us). We deﬁnitely had entered wres-
tling nirvana.

There were several matches between
wrestlers whose names I cannot recall,
(I guess they could be classified in the
wrestling “minor leagues,” not yet
measuring up to WCW professional

standards). I do remember that one of
their names sounded something like
“Hespos,” but I couldn’t be sure. Any-
way, one of these matches involved a
British wrestler who was accompanied
by his top-hatted valet. Now, please
forgive me if you are up on WCW
trivia and know his name, but take it
from me, it didn’t matter what this
guy’s name was; once the audience
heard he was British, he was doomed.
The 14-year-old boys were shouting
“U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A., etc.,” waving
the American ﬂag, and shouting for his
opponent to kick England’s butt. At
this point Nick raised the relevant point
that it sure has

been a long

time since En-

the ring onto the ground. This is the
maxim of professional wrestling; for
every action there is an opposite and
exaggerated reaction.
The ﬁnale of the evening was defi-
‘nitely the title ﬁght: Rick Rude vs. Ric
Flair. Before the actual competition,
both Rude and Flair gave a brief speech
touting their sports prowess,_ good
looks, and virtues of their home states,
and then stripped off their robes. The
immediate impression on the audience
was: these guys are really, really old.
And look at their hair! Who did that?
Clorox?
The fight, monitored by a referee
and two score-
keepers, who I
am sure were

gland was 01" T f%"?'—‘_-T paying close at-
eneIr\§1_yi( d 1 his is the maxim of tintion, took
10 an - ~ , a out twent
wawhedinawe professionalfwrefltlling, minutes mg
astheseprofes- or every ac ion ere is ended as Flair
S i 0 n ally ’ _ bodyslammed
mined m_ an opposite and exag Rude and left
emed athletes gerated reaction. him lying them
jumped around The crowd
the rmg W6aI- cheered not only
ing bikini forthe win, butl

shorts so small

that they would make the W&L water
polo team blush. Even though our seats
were high up in the Civic Center, we
could for sure detect about 3 inches of
space between a wrestler’s blow and
the part of the other wrestler’s body the
first guy supposedly hit. It was as if
both wrestlers had major depth percep-
tion problems. This was no matter,
because even if one of the wrestlers
had given the other a “high-ﬁve,” the
other probably would have reacted by
ﬂipping over backwards, hitting the
ropes around the mat, and ﬂying out of

assume also for
spite,because only minutes earlier Rude
had derided the crowd by calling them
a bunch of “Backwoods Roanokers.”
Rude violated the sacred wrestling rule
of not taunting the crowd especially
when many of them are from the back-
woods, from Roanoke, and have guns.
And he paid the price. He was still
lying on the mat when we left.

All and all, that evening was pretty
interesting. Scary, yes, but also inter-
esting. So, if you’re bored one week-
end and you want a little spoits action,
go see the WCW. Join the invasion.

Confederate flag symbolizes pride

MY VIEW

‘ Nicholas Waddy, ’96

When I read Michael Hewlett’s invective against
the Confederate battle flag in last week’s Phi (part
two in his now-weekly “Sins of the Honkies” series),
I was really quite bothered. I promised that I would
respond. Since the Confederate ﬂag is an honorable
ﬂag, I will try to give it an honorable defense.

Let me be clear: I am not a Southerner. I am from
upstate New York, where, far-from"naving~a’draw1,'-‘1
we speak with a distinct nasal accent, usually foiind
only in lower primates with sinus conditions. Atany
rate, because of my place of residence, I cannot be
accused of writing this out of any blind parochialism.
Nefend the ﬂag not because it is “mine,” but because

it deserves to be defended.

Mr. Hewlett had a lot to say about how the Confed-
erate ﬂag is a symbol of “[a] time when black women
were raped and black men were emasculated. .. when

homeland.

Dean thanks FOC,

T9 the editor,

I would like to take this opportunity
to thank publicly the entire W&L com-
munity for providing such a warm and
enthusiastic welcome to the class of
1997 during the Freshman Orientation
program.

Of particular importance was the
wbrk of the Freshman Orientation Com-
mittee, and its leadership, Carlin Jones
and Phil McCoy, and the Dormitory
Counselors, all of whom gave
unﬂaggingly of themselves. Planning
and organizing orientation activities and
st‘affing virtually every orientation

event-—from Playfair to airport
shuttles——made for a very smooth
opening week.

Thanks also go to: Mr. Jim Arthur,
Mr. Randoph Hare, Mr. Bill Radford,
and their staff who saw to it that all of
the dormitories and other facilities
were in immaculate condition for
Check-in day; Mr. Jerry Darrell and
Mr. John Taffe and their staff who
furnished the culinary touches for
several meetings and special occa-
sions; Jim Farrar, RobMish, Jerilyn
Farren, Southern Comfort, Jubilee,
General Admission and Gordon Spice

being black and being American were two different
things.” To him, “[the ﬂag] represents oppression.”
Fair enough. But he is very unkind to those of us who
see things differently (we ﬁgure prominently in his
piece as “supposedly intelligent human beings”).
To us, the Confederate ﬂag represents, in addition
to the injustices alluded to by Mr. Hewlett, honor,
integrity, duty, and aristocracy in its best sense. We
should remember the extraordinary character of those
who fought under it: men from every walk of life
exhibiting an awesome ferocity in the defense of their

It is difﬁcult to respect federal soldiers in the same
twayg‘ ‘let us remember, by and large Northerners '
fought not for the -liberation of black folk (for whom
they cared little), but forthe solidiﬁpation of Northern
power over the agrarian South.

The Confederate ﬂag is not the only Southern icon
under attack these days; even our respected patriarch
Robert E. Lee has been lambasted by revisionists.
Both Lee and the ﬂag have detractors and fans,
running the gamut from those who see in them only
the evils of slavery to those who over-romanticize

LETTERS

others who helped orientation

Confederate history until it becomes a sort of civic
religion. We should be wary of extremes.

The characters of Lee, of the South, of the ﬂag:
none of these are spotless. But is surely unfair to
pigeonhole any one of them as “inappropriate” or
evil. A ﬂag is a symbol; the only way it can be evil
is if that which it represents is evil. Are we prepared
to render such a harsh judgment on the South?
Surely not, for to do so would be absurd and grossly
inhumane.

In effect, I would challenge Mr. Hewlett to move
beyond his own sensibilities, to examine the ﬂag in
a more universal light. On one hand, it does stand for
an age in which WASPS were dominant or at least 1
moreso than they are now; on the other hand,some 3

gofthose WASPS‘,‘W€§£'L_ nien l,ike§RobeitE§‘gLee._Men :
who, while imperfect, history has judged to have
been honorable and decent.

If many Southerners, and many Americans
too, choose to see the Confederate ﬂag as (on
balance) a symbol of that kind of nobility of charac-
ter, that is their right. I encourage them to display it
with pride.

for providing a festive Alumni Associa-
tion BBQ and choral program.

Special kudos to Sue Krawchuk for
her extraordinary work with virtually
every aspect of orientation; Fran Kefalas
and Nikki Magaziner fortheirwork with
the Freshman Record; Ms. Joan Neel
and the APO Service Fraternity for ex-
cellent leadership of community service
activity; Professor Kirk Follo and the
Outing Club for organizing the hike to
the saddle of House Mountain and the
Chessie Trail walk; Professor Taylor
Sanders for his remarks on the history
and traditions of W&L; Bob Tompkins,

Interviews and Photos

By Joe Framptom

Professor Lamar Cecil and the Execu-
tive Committee for a meaningful orien-
tation to the Honor System.

Others too numerous to mention
also contributed to the Freshman Ori-
entation program, and this general note
must sufﬁce as a thank you. I am
pleased that the Class of 1997 was the
beneficiary of sucha community ef-
fort!

Sincerely,

Dennis G. Manning
Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life

TALKBACK

 

 

Annual Fund

The Development Ofﬁce is look-
ing for enthusiastic students willing
to work with the Annual Fund activi-
ties such as coordinating student
phonathons. Applications will be
available Thursday, Sept. 30, outside
of Carol Calkins office. If you have
any questions please contact Maureen
Levey at 463-8487.

Pre-Law

The Pre-Law Society will meet in
room 221 of the Commerce School at
7:00 p.m. on Thursday evening, Oct.
7, with members of Phi Alpha Delta
legal fraternity. Activities for the
academic year will be discussed and
officers will be elected. In addition,
undergraduates will be paired with
law student mentors from PAD. All
undergraduate students considering
law school after graduation are in-
vited to attend. For further informa-
tion, contact Professor Lewis G. John
in Room 125-B of the Commerce
School.

Study Abroad

Representatives of the following
organizations will be on campus next
week to talk with students about op-
portunities for study abroad.

Beaver College with programs in
the United Kingdom, Greece, and
Australia — Tuesday, Oct. 5 at 2:00
p.m. in Baker 106.

Marymount College with intern-
ships in London—— Wednesday, Oct.
6 at 1:00 p.m. in Baker 106.

American Institute of Foreign
Study with programs throughout
Europe — Friday, Oct. 8, 11:00 a.m.
to 1:00 p.m. in the Student Center
lobby.

For more information, contact
Kirk Follo at 462-8828.

Movies

Women’s Forum will have a

“movie night this Sunday, Qct._3 at“ .
[6330p.ri’1,,in.the,Arlington ,Wonien’s _ , ‘

‘Center, complete with popcorn. All '
women and men are invited to join,
and bring your favorite movies for us
to choose from.

Interviews

An interviewing workshop will
be held on Tuesday, Oct. 5 at 4:00
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. This workshop is mandatory
for all seniors planning on participat-
ing in practice interviews.

Resumes

There will be a resume work-
shop on Thursday, Oct. 7 at 1 1:00
a.m. in Room 109 of the Univer-
sity Center. This workshop is open
to all students.

Career Tests

There will be a career test inter-
pretation at 3:00 p.m. on Thurs-
day, Oct. 7 in Room 109 of the
University Center. Thosewho have
taken the career tests and have not
attended an interpretation session
should attend at this time.

Chuchelo

The Russian Film Series will
show “Chuchelo” (“Scarecrow”),
a 1983 Russian-language film with
English subtitles directed by Rolan
Bykov based on the novella
Chuchelo by Vladimir
Zheleznikov. The one screening
will be at 7:00 p.m., Monday, Oct.
4, in Northen Auditorium.

Troubadour

The Film Society will present
Gas, Food, Lodging tonight at 8
p.m. and also at 8 p.m. tomorrow in
the Troubadour Theater. There is
no charge for admission.

Phi

The Phi will hold its weekly
storyboard meeting in room 208 of
the University Center every Tues-
day at 7 p.m. Anyone in writing is
invited.

Club Hockey

'\

K I‘ Tliere will beameeting of club

ice hockey on Monday, Oct.r 4, in
Commerce School room 323 at 8
p.m. All interested are invited to
attend. For more information please
call Eric at 464-8879.

ACLU

There will be an ACLU meet-
ing on Saturday, Oct. 2 at 5 p.m. in
the University Center Game Room.
For more information call 462-
4193.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

0
Correction
In the Sept. 24 issue of The Ring-tum Phi the story “EC allots SAB

$70,000” should have read the Calyx

asked for $28,600 and received

$22,000. The story should also have read Ashby Hackney said Amnesty
International would not allow the College Republicans to participate in
a Death Penalty demonstration. The Phi apologizes for the errors.

What is the Worst thing about being a professor at

Dr. David Novack, professor of so-
ciology — “Grading examinations.”

Washington and Lee?

Dr. J . D. Futch, professor of history
— “Washington, D.C. is 190 miles
away and I drive never over 40.”

Dr. Michael Anderson, professor of
economics —- “Being so far away
from Wisconsin and the Green Bay
Packers.”

Dr. Holt Merchant, professorofhis-
tory — “Committee meetings. They
last too long and accomplish too little.”

Dr. David Harbor, assistant profes-
sor of geology —- “Chasing Zeke
around campus.”

 

Dr. Barry Machado, professor of
history — “Thursday mornings.”

 

 

FEATURES

  

The Ring-tum Phl, October 1, 1993 1

Religious involvement on the rise.

Campus leaders say growing activity reﬂects a new outlook

By LAKEISHA TowNEs

Phi Staff Writer

 

Amid the ﬂurry of academic and
social activities at Washington and Lee,
there is also an active religious com-
munity.

The Registrar’s ofﬁce report on de-
mographic characteristics for 1993-94
shows that 921 students expressed a
religious preference. 872 students in-
dicated Christianity as their preference
while 34 selected Judaism and 15 chose
“other”.

Among the denominations of Chris-
tianity, the three most popular choices
were Catholicism with 275 students,
Episcopalian with 192 and
Presbyterianism with 127.

Though the total number of stu-
dents expressing a religious preference
has dropped by 229, there is a growing
amount of religious activity on cam-
pus.

Last year, there were ﬁve groups on
campus providing religious activities
and support.

Hillel, the Jewish student organiza-
tion, provides a medium for students

and townspeople to participate in reli-
gious functions.

Since the nearest synagogue is in
Staunton, Hillel is one of the only fo-
rums in the county for observing even
the major Jewish holidays.

A representative of Hillel could not
be reached for comment.

The remaining four groups are all
Christian.

Though there are now enough
people interested to sustain this many
Christian organizations on campus,
participation in religious groups has
not always been so popular.

University Registrar Scott Dittman
said when he arrived at W&L in the fall
of 1985, Christian support was not
easy to ﬁnd. “The ﬁrst couple of years,
the Christians were a real quiet voice
on campus.”

Then, around 1987, the Christian
community experienced “a real
movement...an explosion,” said
Dittman.

More students attended meetings of
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship (IV),
Campus Crusade for Christ formed on
campus, and Fellowship of Christian
Athletes (FCA) became even more ac-
tive, Dittman said.

Dittman is excited about what’s

.3. -
.' ‘I: T; ',"ﬁw"'
o\_guuIu '" ,
..}i ', °

 

going on in the Christian community.

“At least looking at the last eight
years, Christians have become more a
part of the main campus,” Dittman
said.

The growing level of student in-
volvement with religious activities has
been noticed by many organizational
leaders.

“There is much more involvement
in every aspect [of lnterVarsity],” said
junior Katie Stephens, IV president.
“I’ve seen more interest in Bible study
and fellowship in general.”

“The numbers as a whole at the
BSU [Baptist Student Union] have gone
up,” said juniorAlan Carter, BSU presi-
dent.

He adds that although it takes a
while to get freshmen and new Chris-
tians involved, he is excited about the
increased attendance.

Sophomore Julie Sauers, co-leader
of FCA, is also encouraged by the
growth of Christian involvement.

“There is deﬁnitely more interest,”
she said, “FCA seems to be growing.”

“There’s a deﬁnite increase,” said
Catholic Campus Minister Burr Datz.
Datz, a 1975 W&L graduate, said stu-
dents are more involved with the church
and living out their faith.

“I get a sense that people just want
to get in touch with God,” Datz said.

He said more students are attending
retreats and activities at St. Patrick’s
Catholic Church, and those who regu-
larly attend often bring friends.Datz

 

  
  

Baptist
Catholic

Episcopal

Lutheran

 

Methodist
Presbyterian O
Other Christian

Judaism

I
El
El

Other

no preference

 

Theatre department

sets cast for The Flies

From Staﬁ Reports

The Theatre Department has set the cast for its ﬁrst
production of the year.

Senior Heather Aussiker and freshman Dan Tipton
will perform the roles of Electra and Orestes in Jean-
Paul Sartre’s play The Flies.

The Flies focuses on the children of Greek hero
Agamemnon during the fall of his great house. Sartre is
arguably the most well-known practitioner of French
existentialism.

Other Washington and Lee students with featured
roles are senior Ellen Dean as Clytemnestra and fresh-
man Jason Shaffer as the tutor of Orestes. Acting in the
roles of townspeople are sophomores Phaedra Cianciulli
and Jeanne Dillon, juniors James Durbin and Brian
McClung, freshman Ian Leavy and senior Avery
Rembowski.

Performances begin Oct. 22 at 8:00 p.m. and en;
with the 8:00 p.m. show on Oct. 30. Other perfo -
mances are on the 23rd, 25th, and 26th at 8:00 p.m. and
at 2:00 p.m. on the 24th and 30th.

Contrary to the schedule listed in the season bro-
chure, the performance on the 29th will be at 9:00 p.m.

Tickets are available at the benfest Box Ofﬁce (463-
8000) from Noon to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
and two hours before any performance. ‘

Other theatre department events this year will in-
clude the December production of The Lady ’s Not For
Burning, a senior thesis directed by Rosanne
Combrooks.

In February, Noel Coward’s comedy Blithe Spirit
will be presented.

The Annual Festival of One-Act Plays will shovl
case student directors this March as a project of the
Advanced Directing class.

 

   
   

    
  
 

 

. , . , said he is encouraged by the growth. The roles of Zeus arid Aegisthus win be performed The grand ﬁnale of the year comes in May with the
. . _ He sees the increased activity as by community members Tom Raisbeek arid Mark production of Mozart’s The Marriage of Figqro— the
~ ’ . - . . part of a different approach to religion. 1)aughtrey_ first fully staged opera organized by the theatre and
“[Christianity] is not just an hour on The play will be directed by A] Gordorr music departments in over 30 years.
Sunday, it’s a way of living.” Q
Wf *" * e i Tm * ” e- ~ :':\;t"i?.l”}".”‘,"  1' ‘
  e e 1.0  C I 0
 .
Q
"   W’? ....... .. .,..W.....,.,...,.,.......w..r..... , . . , ---- g >
‘Right now, you can get a great price on an Apple printer for your puter lab. You can even get special financing with the Apple Computer
Macintosh‘? So you’ll be able to print sharp, professional—looking papers Loan?‘ See your Apple Campus Reseller today. And discover the I
right there in your room — without having to wait around at the com- power more college students prefer. The power to be your best?’ 
0 O 0 0 o o . '.
For further information visit University Computing
in Tiicker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844 ,

‘Available to qualifying s/up’erz/s. a/parlicipaling authorized Apple azmpus Resellers. ©1993 Apple Corryiuler. Inc. All rights reserved. Apple. the Apple logo, 1_.a.i'erWr-iter, /llacmlosla, .S'!_vleWr'iIer and “The power /0 beyour /793/ " ((rt) ,.qpii;i»ra/ /rmlemrlrki 0/‘APP’? C0"1/'1’/Pf 1'76-

*Prices do not include sales tax

  

 

«Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1993

l ay-care center evolves in Lexington

- By Hillary Olson
Phi Staff Writer

In an alleyway, nestled between
rowﬂed buildings, sits the kingdom of
ellow Brick Road Child Care. Cen-
v red in the basement of the Robert E.
' e Episcopal Church, Yellow Brick
'oad is one of only two licensed child
are centers in all of Rockbridge
unty. As administered by Ms. Hunter
ohﬁng, executive director of the cen-
r, it is an environment that gives
hildren “as much free time as pos-
ible, for kids are born to learn.”
The Yellow Brick Road program
egan in 1976 in a woman’s basement
part of her master’s degree program.
he program grew into a non-proﬁt
ompany when people realized that the

majority of parents desperately seek-
ing child care in the area had no way to
pay for it. An extensive scholarship
system was set up to help local parents
affordthe oftenexpensivecostsofchild
care.

As part of its outreach program in
1978, the Episcopal church contrib-
uted the use of its basement and utili-
ties for $25 a month.

Mohring, known as “Hunter” to the
children, says that even with her “pretty
title” of executive director, she fills
any role she needs to. Some days, she
makes lunch for the children with cherry
tomatoes from her own garden.

As she grates carrots for a salad, a
little student waltzes in wearing a prin-
cess costume to say hello. Hunter takes
all the interruptions in stride saying
“we’ve got to deal with the kids as
individuals.”

The only other licensed child care
center in Rockbridge County is in a
Buena Vista woman’s home. However,
Yellow Brick Road is receiving its
most noticeable competition from the
new Montessori school in Lexington.
The center cares for 23 children daily,
the majority of them for 40 hours a
week.

Hunter said that her job is a very
gratifying one, although it gets very
hectic at times. She said that she read in
a magazine somewhere that “child care
workers hear as much loud noise in a
week as a construction worker with a
jackhammer in six hours.”

FEATURES

Left: children who attend
Yellow Brick road enjoy
playtime. The children
are also given more
structured activities
throughout the day.

Below: There are
several teachers in the
Yellow Brick Daycare
center. Each teacher is
responsible for an age-

group.

Jfomecoming weelﬁemf

offers more tﬂan fo0t5a[[

From Staff Reports

The Lexington city streets will once
again host the sights and sounds of
Washington and Lee’s Homecoming
Parade next Saturday, October 9.

Starting at Brewbaker Field, the
parade will come into town on Main
Street and then head toward campus on
Washington Street. The procession is
scheduled to begin at 11:00 a.m.

Various university groupswill build
and drive ﬂoats in the paradedepicting
a theme representing either their re-
spective organization or depicting the
Generals’ victory at the football game
later_in the day.

Lexington ﬁre departments, res-
cue teams and local officials will also
participate. The Liberty Hall Volun-
teers will march in Colonial militia
attire.

The bands of Rockbridge County
High School and Lylbum Downing
Middle School will provide music for
participants and observers.

The tradition of the Homecoming

‘Parade was revived by Kathekon, the

student alumni group.

Other Homecoming Weekend ac-
tivities include alumni receptions, lec-
tures, concerts, and the football game
against the Davidson Wildcats.

Members of W&L classes 1990-93
will participatein an event called “Clus-
ter Reunion”. The new program gives
younger alumni a means to participate
in campus events before the traditional
five-year reunion.

The “Five-Star Generals”, alumni
of W&L classes from 50 or more years
ago, will attend an honorary dinner in
the Evans Dining Hall Friday evening.

Two lectures will also be offered on
Friday. The John Randolph Tucker
Lecture will be given at 12:10 p.m. in
Lewis Hall by The Honorable A. Leon
Higginbotham, Jr. senior judge for the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit, Philadelphia.

Accounting professor Lyn F.
Wheeler, history professor Roger B.
Jeans, Jr., and associate professor of
administration Kip M. Pirkle will host
a seminar titled “From Communism to
Capitalism: Can the Red Giants Play
Ball?” The seminar will begin at 2:00
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

There will also be an alumni recep-
tion at the Alumni House at 6:00 p.m.

J ubiLee, Southern Comfort, and the
W&L Choral ensembles will perform
at 8:45 p.m. in the KellerTheatre at the
Lenfest Center. The concert is free and
open to the public.

Saturday’s festivities include the
beloved football game and the crown-
ing of the 1993 Homecoming queen.

Spending Spring Term in

SPAIN
GERIVIAN Y
FRANCE
ITALY
ETC.?

Need FINANCIAL HELP?

Check with the Financial Aid Office to
make sure you have the correct

applications on ﬁle.
DO IT N OW!!

Point of View  

Restaurant

NexttoDeysInn.Rt.60Wut

Attend the Spring Term Abroad general
information session Tuesday, Oct. 19, 1993
at 7:00 p.m. Room 114,
University Center.

EXCEPTIONAL STUDENT BUSINE
OPPORTUNITY

FIFTY PERCENT PARTNERSHIP IN
CARIPUS LINEN SERVICE
BEING OFFERED FOR STUDENT PURCHASE

-Gain valuable professional experience in marketing,
management, and sales while operating your own profitable
business.

-Earn a 12% to 15% return on your investment in this well
established business that has been owned and operated by
Washington and Lee students for over 30 years.

, -Provide the desperately needed clean linen and towels to your
fellow W&L students while acquiring priceless skills, promoting
_ your own marketability, and earning money. -

-For more information please contact:

Gene Pride ‘92

P.O. Box 1962
Telluride, CO 81435
(303) 728-2083

sxxxxxxxxxxxx332gassasssaxxxxsxggsggaxxxxxxa

: ,,. 4

  

PAGE 6

Administrators rejoice over ranking rise

applications we wouldn’t normally see.”

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Administrators and admissions ofﬁce repre-
sentatives are savoring Washington and Lee’s
20th place finish in U.S. News and World
Repor1’s best colleges issue.

“We are very proud to be in the company of
the ﬁne colleges on the list,” said Assistant
Director of Admissions Rob Aliff. “lt’s impor-
tant because when (high school) students see us
listed as a top college, it does draw some

two years’ 22nd place ﬁnishes.

that the speciﬁc ranking is not what matters.
“The range is very narrow from 15 to 25,” said
Howison. “The fact is that we are part of that
very distinguished group.”

ranking is high onwthe scale does have its
advantages.

W&L moved up two places from the past

But Dean of Students David Howison said

But, said Howison, the fact that W&L’s

“[This report] has become in higher educa-
l

 

Construction workers put the finishing touches on Lexington’s newest restaurant.
Fear not, true believers. The long-awaited Mexican eatery will open soon.

Run for the border...

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Lexington will soon offer yet
another alternative to D-Hall din-
ing—Taco Bell is due to open
sometime next week.

America’s south-of-the—bor—
der fast food eatery has been un-

- der construction for the last 75

days and was scheduled to open
on September 27.

Bad weather pushed the date
to next week.

‘‘It all depends on the
weather,” said owner Tassos
Paphites. The earliest Taco Bell
can open its doors is October 6, if
skies stay sunny.

According to Paphites, the

Taco Bell site was chosen be-
cause it met demographic crite-
ria. It is supposed to do well,
being between two cities and near
two universities.

“We’re real excited about it,”
said Paphites.

The Taco Bell address is 9541 ,
located on Route 60. Taco Bell is
owned by Burgerbusters, Inc.

IFC hands out two Violations

{ I->RUSH, from page one

Both fraternities received a $1500 ﬁne and one
' week social probation. Since both fraternities re-
ceived the violation last Friday night they will not

. lose any Tear Night activities.

“They started it [social probationjitflienightthey 
» got the violation, 'ai1d»it-”ll be over by Friday'night-,”‘: * F

Donaldson said.

Additionally, neither fraternity lost any parties
since They Might Be Giants played last weekend

and no fraternity functions were scheduled.

“They really picked a good weekend for it,”
Donaldson said.
Donaldson however was quick to point out far

A - fewer Rush violations had occurred this year.

_ “Last year, there were between ﬁve and eight
violations. ‘This year, the number of Rush viola-
tions has decreased dramatically,”Donaldsgn_said.

. V

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 19

  
 

@

tion a very important resource,” Howison said.
“There is no question that parents and kids look
to that issue to make a decision.”

Aliff agreed.

“[Our ranking in the report] helps people to
know we have a solid academic program. We
are in the same category as other colleges with
high academic reputations, and reputation is
key,” said Aliff.

While the overall score placed W&L at 20,
the school rated better in some areas than higher
ranking schools. For example, W&L proved to

I->VMI, from page one

50, the students would be lodged
in the now defunct Staunton Mili-
tary Academy which was bought
by Mary Baldwin and is adjacent
to the school. Kcade said that
Mary Baldwin bought Staunton
Military Academy in 1976.
Kcade said that students
would have their own living quar-
ters , but it hasn’t been deter-
mined whether they will live on
the original campus orthe former
Staunton Military Academy.
Strickler said that students
would take 12-18 hours of Lead-
ership courses that would make
up a Leadership minor. In addi-
tion to that, students would be
required to take four years of
intensive physical education and
ROTC training. Kcade adds that
students would be required to

Annie brought up to date

acceptance rates.

ranking.

W&L rode fairly low on the education pro-
gram per student and ﬁnancial resources lists,
spending about $14,965 per student and plac-
ing 48th on the financial resources scale.

VMI proposes solutio'

take an “extemship”, or an in-
ternship, with a corporation in
the public or private sector.

Furthermore, Strickler said
that like VMI, there would be an
Honor Code established at the
Leadership Institute in addition
to the rigorous physical training
and ROTC.

However, that is where the
similarities end. Strickler said
that there will not be a rat line
system at the Leadership Insti-
tute.

Strickler believes that the rat
line would be unsuitable for
women.

‘‘It would be very tough for
women to go throught the type of
training that the Cadets go
through here,” said Strickler.

Kcade also said that research
shows that women learn differ-
ently and do not develop self-

I->ANNlE, from page one

The library now holds subscriptions to
two new databases, which are available
through Liberty. The subscriptions, which
are paid for out of the library’s budget, make
the information free to all W&L faculty and
students. The new databases are UnCover
and FirstSearch. A third Database soon to be

added is Lexis-Nexis.

UnCover is produced by the Colorado
Association of Research Libraries (CARL).
It contains listings of the tables of contents of
almost 15,000 journals owned by Colorado
libraries. Users can search the database by

subject or by title.

FirstSearch is new this year.
specialized databases like Medline, which
It also gives
access to listings of government publications
and the MLA bibliography_. FirstSearch,’

indexes medical literature.

  

RlNCll’l.l£S Hf SOUND

R If T l R I‘) .\I If N 'l‘

 
  

rxvr“

       
  
 
  

ized publications.

Because of the nature of the new data-
bases, the library may cancel some subscrip-
tions to paper periodicals after a trial period.
Blackmer said that some CD-Rom subscrip-
tions have already been canceled because
FirstSearch appears to be cheaper.

John Doyle, an associate law librarian,-
created Netlink on the liberty menu. This
program has made W&L internationally
known in the computing world becauseit has
combined 2777 information points (library
databases, gqphers, bibliographies, etc.), and

It holds

be one of the most selective schools in the top
20, admitting only 29 percent of its applicants.
Only the top two schools, Amherst College and
Williams College in Massachussetts, had lower

W&L and Davidson, in North Carolina,
were the only southern schools in the top 25

while free to students, costs the library about
ﬁfty cents for each search, and its use is
therefore restricted to people at W&L.
Lexis—Nexis will be a full-text database,
and not just a bibliographical or abstract
listing like most others. It will give access to
periodical articles by title. Lexis—Nexis con- .
tains mostly legal information and special-

money.
for W&L.
Aliff. .

conﬁdence well. _

“We would want to set up an
environment conducive to
women for learning, character
building, and development of
self-confidence,” said Kcade.

Chris Meyers, a 1st Classman
and senior, believes that women
would not be able to handle the
rigorous physical and mental
training the Cadets go through.

“If I had a daughter I would
feel uncomfortable with her go-
ing through what we go through
in the rat line,” said Meyers.

According to Strickler, to al-
low women into VMI would de-
stroy its uniqueness.

‘‘If women were admitted to
VMI, the system would change,”
said Strickler.

He said that VMI has an open-
air environment—no bathrooms
in the room, entireley open-

 

center.

Howison offered an explanation for this.
said that W&L’s endowment level is low
comparison with other schools, but W&l
tuition is also low. Students are not making
for low endowment by paying higher tuitit
W&L just offers a quality education for 1:

D
But this year’s ranking is shiny, happy ne

“It certainly makes my job easier,” s

adds new items every day. It includes listing
such as Compact Disk Connection, an 8n-lir
electronic catalogue that allows users to o
der CDs with a credit card over E-mail. Tl
popularity of this system, however, has fore
the university to place limits on the numbert
outside usersthatcan aocessitsimultaneousl

Blackmer said that to learn how to use tl
new system, students need to “just play Qou .
with it.” He said that the library has consit
ered offering help sessions, but that he do
not anticipate an enthusiastic response t
these. Students can also obtain help at t -
library reference desk and in. the comput

The developments in the library’§corr
puter resources are continuing, said Blackme
He called. the databases “libraries withor
walls that leak into.the lntemet,” and said thz
their capabilities are “so powerful and so fu
of potential that it is overwhelming.”

v

  
     
     
    
    
     
    
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
    
    
   
   
    
    
      
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
    
  
    
       
      

spaced toilets and showers.

Meyers said that al owi
women into VMI woul cre:
tension between the sexes.

“You’re going to feel unco»
fortable when you’re forced
accept something that you do
want to accept,” said Meyers.

Strickler believes that VMI
a unique part of the higherlduc
tional system.

“VMl is just a sample of t
diversity in higher educatio
said Strickler.

Kcade said that Mary Baldw
fully intends to go ahead with ti
project even if the courtgejec
VMl’s proposal. .

Kcade said that the Lead:
ship Institute is a logical or
growth of Mary Baldwin’s mi
sion in training women.

“We see it as a wonderf
opportunity,” said Kcade.

     
       
 
  
  
    
      
     
    
   
     
     
     
  
 

 

 

Diana Madsen Schofield
205 North Main Street
Phone 463-5455

       
  

Lexington
Shop for

Pappagallo .
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories

oppogomlo

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

   

    
 

9 I993 Tiacbrrx Irnrurnntr am)/Innuity Axmucralrktn/C0//cg: Rtlirtmtnt Equiliu Fund

 

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS

LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

‘ :an’t afford to save for retirement?

The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement

can last 20 to 30 years or more.You'll want

to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $100 each
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $172,1o9* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $219 each month
to reach the same goal.

Even ifyou're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve-
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest-
ment choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not
join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on

your side.

Start planning your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.

%

for those who shape it?"

75 years of ensuring the future

 

\

 

product vtry Biffcrent r:JulI.r. CREF ttrtéfxaltm art dirtribuml by TI/M-CREF Inrlivulualarrrl Imrlilulianal Strvirnr.

"/i.r.mInr'/lg an irrltrnri ml: of 7. 01.7% rra/zlrd to TIAA Rtllrtnunl Annuities T/IL! raft Lr u.r:r}.ra/1/y Ia Jbow the power and tﬂtrt ofrumpaundirrq. Lawcr ar higher rate: would

 
 
  

\b.:;.....';.

Oetober Spec-i-als '9
———Cassin les Special - - 3 for $9.50-—-
$2.00 off a 1 CDs, $1.00 off all Cassettes

       

anrrve

The Budd Holly Collection
Dazed and on ed Soundtrack
Perfect entlemen
Carlislly Duffer - Sax-A-Go-Go
Taj ahal - Dancing the Blues

George Strait - Easy Come, Easy Go
KRS-ON E — Return of the Boom Bap

Souls of Mischief — ‘93 "til Inﬁnity
Spice I - I87He Wrote '

Emmy Lou Harris - Cowgirl ‘.9 Prayer

Dan Fogelber - River 0 Souls
Raw Bree - Lune unz
The Posres - Frosting on the Beater

     

   

 

Stonewall S uare Shopping Center

    
   

xin ton
463-9 00

     
    

   
   
  
 
  
 

 :»-V :5.-,.-.vut-¢~.-.x~ nu...-ya -a. .7 . -

 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
  

.§et it out,” she said. “But the AAUP
.1’ gaysghere ought to be a process to hear
‘,3 case about inadequate consideration.”
5' The AAUP stipulates that a com-

 
   
 
  
   
 

faculty member challenges negative

 
   
 
  
 

    

I e Rlng-tum Phi, October 1, 1993

PAGE 7

 

taut: :24. 1‘ ~«.u.»s«
1" ml: «An Ixvmuu

   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   

Naughty Reading

«.

'lhe Bookstore displays books that have been banned. some of the titles may surprise you.

I

non-renewal case.

iI>PECK, from page 1

, ing into the options open to her. She
iiscovered she could appeal the deci-
iiongfter looking into guidelines set
for professors by the American Asso-
;iation of University Professors [the
AAUP].

“I was unaware I had this option
because the faculty handbook doesn’t

the appeal.

appeal.

hiittee composed of elected faculty
members should hear cases in which a
‘decisions because of inadequate con— agreed upon procedures.”
side tion or more substantial consid-
bratrons such as discrimination or de-
nial of academic freedom.” At W&L
there is no standing committee to hear

Professor H.‘Thomas Williams, Jr.,
chair of the President’s Advisory Com-
mittee, said the committee has not been
formally charged by President John D.
Wilson to review Peck’s petition. Once
charged, however, the deans would not
take part in the formal deliberations of

According to Williams, there are
two issues to be considered in Peck’s

“Two issues are at point here. One is
procedure and the other is about the
fairness of the outcome,” Williams said.
“The committee’s responsibility will
be limited to one charge and that is if
the English department followed the

He added the “committee will in no
way look at if the decision of the En-
glish Departiiierit was right or wrong.”

Craun learned of Peck’s intention to

   

such cases.

file an appeal in late July when he
received a copy of the letter she had

   
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
 

l The President’s Advisory Commit-
lee, which is composed of six elected
faculty members and 3 deans, is the
lnosfsimilar to the committee recom-
inended by the AAUP. The members

yet to see the actual petition.

: ,

‘(Iraui1"s'a’fd{ " ‘I

for three years. Curren‘tly1,“St'he‘ ’
President’s Advisory Committee is the
committee who reviews all tenure de-

sent to Wilson requesting a review of
the department’s judgment. Craun has

“We ,don’t know what she has al-
bf the faculty on the,co'mrnittee~ aifeﬂ "leged1;rtit’we‘arej¢onﬁde[nt, inthe pro-
elected by the entire faculty   ’f,“f:es§§ﬂd‘.t‘if2ﬁ_‘i1fl’1‘as‘liet5ti up fé.‘i"rly‘," “

Peck would not comment on the
specifics of her appeal. However, ac-

  

cording to Wilson, who will formally

appeal will allege the English depart-
ment did not follow standard proce-
dure.

“The AAUP stipulates that inad-
equate consideration is the threshold
allegation and should be first dealt
with,” Wilson said. “Judging by her
initial reaction, I fully expect there will
be a second petition.”

Peck’s decision to ﬁle the 67—page
appeal was strengthened by the sup-
port she received from both students
and faculty members. .

“There were some professors an
students who asked if there was any-
thing they could do and I began think-
ing of asking the department for recon-
sideration.

Some students even wrote letters to
the department asking for reconsidera-
tion,” she said.

Junior Melissa Miller was one stu-
dent who sent a letter to the department
requesting a review of Peck’s case.

“Professor Peck is one of the best
professors here,” Miller said. “When I
talked to Professor Craun, l was given
no real answer as to why she was let go.
I’m not sure she received one.”

Miller believes the'_English depart-

ment did not’ haxléijust ‘cause‘t‘o’termi‘- A "

nate Peck’s contract and did not take
student opinion adequately into con-
sideration.

“Everyone I talked to had very posi-

«Beck challenges department ruling

responses,” Miller said. ‘‘I expect they
will disregard student opinion [about
the appeal]. Look at the way they did it
with Professor Lynch.”

Although the department did re-
ceive some letters from students after
the decision had been made, Craun
said the department opted not to recon-
sider.

“The tenured members of the fac-
ulty decided not to reconsider their
decision based on [the letters],” he said.
“The group decided there had been a
fair evaluation already.”

Because the appeal is the first of its
kind, no one involved with the case is
sure how to proceed next or how long
it w ill be before a decision is reached.

“I have no experience with this type
of procedure,” Williams said.“lt [the
appeal] could drag out for the semester
but the hope is, on both sides, that it
won’t.”

Although Peck feels “students
should let theirvoices count,” she wants
to “see the process move along as ob-
jectively as possible without any out-
side interference.”

The English department, Craun said,
is not worried about the appeal. ,

‘ ‘‘I "think “I can ‘safely say for my
colleagues that we have nothing to fear
from a review,” Craun said. “The fac-
ulty handbook is our guide and it is
quite explicit about those things that

&L tries

to comply
with ADA

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee campus
needs some work, at least when it comes
to serving the handicapped.

The university is currently working
to comply with the regulations of the
Americans with Disabilities Act. This
law became effective in July 1992, and
prohibits discrimination based on an
individual’s impairment.

The ADA applies to all private em-
ployers, state and local governments,
government agencies, and labor unions.
Violations of ADA cannot be crimi-
nally prosecuted, but if the institution
does not respond adequately to a
complainant’s request, that institution
is liable for punitive damages. How-
ever, the university could be prosecuted
under state law, as well as be liable for
damages.

The state of Virginia’s code, the
Human Rights Act, coincides with the
new federal anti-discrimination laws.
According to the ADA Handbook
(which is published by the Department
of Justice and the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission), violations
of the Human Rights Act now fall
under the same repercussions as those
applicable to race, sex, national origin,
and religious discrimination underTitle
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

Director of Capital Planning Frank
Parsons has made arrangements for
handicapped students, faculty, staff and
visitors over the years.

“For now, the most difficult prob-
lem is dealing with campus visitors
who have special needs that we can not
anticipate. However, when we know
we will have these visitors, we see that

they are taken care of (when on the
campus),” Parsons said.

“We know what the (new ADA)
regulations are, and as problems are
brought to our attention, we do the best
that we can,” he added.

The protection laws concerning
physical addition (the installation of
ramps, elevators, etc.) can exempt some
buildings if it can be proven that the
alterations would be an “undue hard-
ship” on the operation of the establish-
ment that ownsthebuildingorinbuild-
ings of a historical nature, such as the
academic buildings on the Colonnade.

Gaines Hall and Graham-Lees dor-
mitory are up to ADA standards, but
Woods Creek apartments are not. Ac-
cording to Parsons, not all university
housing must comply with the regula-
tions, as long as a handicapped-acces-
sible alternative is provided for those
students requiring it.

The newly-built Sigma Chi and
Sigma Phi Epsilon houses are equipped
with wheelchair lifts, as part of their
compliance with ADA.

However, the other renovated fra-
ternity houses only had to comply with
the Fair Housing Act at the time they
were constructed.

“Had we had to comply with the
ADA at the time of the renovations, the
university could not have afforded fra-
ternity renaissance,” Parsons said.

Because the university now owns
all of the fraternity properties, it now

shares liability for an lawsuits that may ’

result from discrimination or lack of
accommodation for the handicapped
on the part of the fraternities.

The new science building will be
built according to ADA speciﬁcations.
The recently-opened Watson Pavilion
also complies with ADA.

EC, Pub Board clash

I->EC, from Egg 1
“The fact remains,” said Richardson, “this money was taken from the

Pub Board without approval.” .

E.C. President Bob Tompkins said he wished to discuss the situation
with Assistant Controller Don Holt and past E.C. President Bo Russell
before any further action is taken. Russell was E.C. President at the time
of the budgeting error andauthorized the transfers of funds.

Russell distributed the money to two campus clubs: The~Ring-tum Phi
got $5,000 and Club Volleyball got $700. The E.C. did not have an
explanation for why Russell illegally took the funds from the Pub Board
reserve.

During its annual budget hearings, the E.C. tentatively set aside $2,700

bisiﬂis and all promotions. Until now

the committee has never handled a

   
    
  
     
     
  
   
      
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
   

ﬁt’-€d Y0 b6 C0nSid€f6d~” to bring the Pub Board Reserve back up to its minimum level, but $3,000

more is needed to fully reimburse the board.

CATALOG

tive things to say. I got no negative

Valley 

charge the committee on Monday, her

Marlene’s Hairstylists & Tannery
n A full service salon:

-cuts -manicures

-color -pedicures _ _  .

-perms -sculptured nails Hardware, Paint, and Related Items Lexington 17 South Mam St.
-highlighting Famous Men’s & Women’s Apparel and Shoes from

America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order Companies. New
Shipments Every Week. Experience the Thrill of
Saving 50% to 80% off of Catalog Prices. Guaranteed.

Hours: Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 463-9730

Marlene, Kelly, Bobbi, Barbara, _Cindy and Kim
" invite you to stop in -- walk-ins welcome

463-6003

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

 Restaurant

at LEE 1!! Truck Stop

25 N. Main St.

   
 

HATS and T-SHIRTS

Originally $10.00. . . now $7.50 each
Cocoa-Mill Beefy T’s - All Cotton - M, L, XL
Cocoa-Mill Hats - All Cotton or Supplex -
American Made - Colors Galore! Long Bill
Available. Free Truffle with Purchase!
Across from the Post Office - 121 W. Nelson St.

: “Let them
  eat steak.

(“Then, give them any regular 6"sub* of their
' choice for just 99¢.”)

_   BREAKFAST
* BUFFET

Friday &. Saturday Nights
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

 

463-3478

 
 

V N‘

O 1
W &L Art 

Signatures: if

Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee 

M. Miley John Letcher 

‘ Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr. §
Sam Houston A. P. Hill 

W&L Copperplate. hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

  fiiﬁmuats
Caravans Bﬂllillﬂ

117 W. Nelson Street Sunday 11-4 Daily 10-6

No wonder things went bad for Marie Antoinette.
She said, “Let them eat cake;”not “steak." Anyway, we’re playing
it smart, because for a limited time when you buy a delicious Steak 86 Cheese
Sub with a medium soft drink, we’ll give you any regular 6" sub‘ for just 99¢.
(Hey, we’ve got our heads on straight over here.)

: v.\ x ‘us.-

 

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington. VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

E» ‘(cl ‘»‘.«.“€\...

 

Place Your Address lloro.

‘ Sol molt ho cl oqul or Iouor voloo. lot good villi ny ollor oﬂor. In I llunllod tlln.

kk J

PAGE 8

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1919

Schaeffer undefeated; sets record agai

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Where can a girl go from here?

SophomoreJosephine Schaeffer has
achieved far more than the human mind
can conceive orthe human body should
be able to endure. For the first time in
Washington and Lee history, a cross
country athlete has gone undefeated,
setting the course record on each of
three courses she has raced on, re-
setting the school record, and sat out
practice because of a spider bite.

Yes, Schaeffer was bitten by a spi-
der bite this week, but never fear, she
said as she ran back and forth on the
Washington and Lee track, “It feels
good now. Well, not good, but...” and

she laughed.

Running 45-50 miles a week to stay
on her toes, the least of Schaeffer’s
worries is a little insignificant pain that
doesn’t affect her performance (she
intends to race this weekend at the
Frostburg Invitational, Oct. 2). Top on
herlistofThingtoWorry About: where
to go from here?

A two—time All-American,
Schaeffer’s margin of victory (a new
statistic I personally created for this
unprecented necessity) is now 1:12.6
for the season. That means that she has
beaten the entire ﬁeld at each of her
cross country meets so far this season
(one which contained over 200 run-
ners) by an average of one minute,
twelve and two—thirds seconds.

Last weekend Schaeffer ran in the

File photo

Schaeffer runs to second place at last year’s track and field

championships in Berea, Ohio.

  SPRING BREAK ‘94
SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, & GO FREE!!

Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps.

Call (800) 648-4849

Dickinson open and re-set her own
school record and personal record, a
four-second improvement, at 17:50.
This was also a course record; Schaeffer
has set three course records in as many
meets this year.
Her time helped Washington and
Lee to a second-place finish in the
meet, after a Divison II team,
Millersville. Teammate and sophomore
Amy Mears finished a strong eighth
with a time of 19:47.
Schaeffer was pleased with the
course.
“It had good variety,” she said. “A
little bit of everything; hills and good
down-hills, some terrain, and even good
weather.”
Hesitant to call any performance ’
her best, she was happy with the race.
“I still want to work hard and im-
prove even more by the end of the
season, but I’m pleased,” she said.
What sets Schaeffer apart? No one
seems to have an answer for that all
important question. Some have the gall
to ask, What’s so special about that?
Running around and around really fast?
Well, anyone cannot do it. (I tried.)
It is a unique talent; whether it is her
technique, her genetic make-up, her
long history of intensive training
(Schaeffer was running road races in
grade school) or her work ethic, not
even her coaches can tell us. They just
know that they are happy to have her .
Last “year, Schaeffer blew the
competition’s minds not only locally ﬁt"
but nationally, as she came on the Na-
tional Track and Field Championships
with a provisional qualifying time (sig-
niﬁcantly below the time required to
automatically qualify an athlete to ad-
vance to the National competition for
Division III) and astounded her com-
petition by finishing second for an All-
American honor and a new school and
personal record. -
When every personal record on
sets is a school record, every time one
sets is a course record, running could
get blase. But Josephine Schaeffer just
keeps running, laughing about an in-
fected spider bite and hoping to im-
prove.
There’s nowhere to go but up,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Pf

Schaeffer works on one of her 45-50 miles she runs every week with the Washington and Lee

woman's cross country team to prepare her for another All-American hopeful season.

Josephine.
FREE TRIPS AND MONEY}! j
Individuals and Student Organiza-  0* |v9"’15V 0322-392

tions wanted to promote the Hottest

Spring Break Destinations, call the
nation’s leader. Inter-Campus

Programs 1-800-327-6013. .

2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista - (Behind Pizm Hut)

 

Party Picture Photographers Needed

Must have own 35 mm. equipment & car
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

Hair Salon

Good thru 10/31

SHEAR nmnne S";;;:,;

Specials
Tanning Special-10 visits for $25.00

$2.00 Off on a hot oil manicure.

17 S. Randolph St.
464-1145

Hocus Pocus
Rated PG
Shows Daily at 5 p.m. & 7 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 1 p.m.

FRATS! SORORITIES!
STUDENT GROUPS!

Ralse as Much as You

   
 
 

 
  
  
 
   
      

 
 

Want In One Week’ Haaggjalzget
$100' ' °$690j ' '$f1i?0! Shows Daily at 9 p.m.
 gr/er‘: Sat. & Sun. 3 p.m.

NEW GM MASTERCARD.
Users earn BIG DISCOUNTS “All You Can Eat”

 
 

    

$ ANY SHOW

on cm CARS! Qualify for FREE BOTIOMLESS BUCKET
T-SHIRT 8: '94 GMC !|MMY- goo or POPCORN $39
can 1 -800-950-1 039, ext. 75.

    

SKYDIVE!!

Is the experience 8: expertise of your Instructor
important? Make your first jump under the
tutelage of the only two Instructors at Skydive
Orange certified in all three disci lines; Static Line,
Tandem & Accelerated Freefall. ou can freefall up
to 60 seconds your first skydive! Call toll free for

brochure. 1-800-484-7400 ¢‘:~Ar When ou hear the
tone dial 5531; or call (703) 94 -8988

 

College

Bring your Horse to

Stabling available just off W&_L "
Campus. Full Board/ Large Riding
Arena/ 80 Acres of Trials/
Lessons Available
Phone #’s 463-2194 (Day)
463-1859 (Evening)
464-6620 (Barn)

    
 

 20%(ﬂ‘anyreguhrj¢

Spanky’s is Now Hiring for
All Positions
Part & Full-time Positions
Available - Apply in person

 

'3' Every Monday
5-9 p.m.

Now Accepting Reservations

Home!
Harbs’
and

for Parents’ Weekend
Point Cards available - Charge them
Lexington's
lively Bistro
Outdoor Patio. 19 We(§‘02;“,f,:.‘,',f'19,t,‘§,'},St’eet

 

0 0 , ;j:1i "mex>u.~I oio inner
I ,,t'.g,urj’ 9At2t2~I Tu-loom

/  / "qorpaur 5616.5;
‘ VD ND NE a
V //   

I
o"
”//r

 

"III!

_-\\I‘
\

“wuo is run 

 

I \

_  «net the «ewe-*6€<61>."He~: I'M
 jo 5931' A CA2-roovi ct—tA2Aae9.

,.‘ 1 com eveu HAVE TO
K/

Quowee .

gar nicer. en}? 3Tu171'V '
get AIVS

Goa MDKE \t~\t=oQMl-\Tior~l CALL. '. ‘ .

1-8w—6eZ~&l£L ms

N,.~nL,.u._ M51’;-n_;1g ON 920 A3095 0.5 195342-rM€NVoF HEM/TH 4ND ummxl scewaes,

PAGE 9

  Hams Teeter
MEANS LOW PRICES

9 QUALITY AND VARIETY
' ARMOUR MEAT

HOT
_ooes

inoz. ,

SELF BASTING GRADE A"
HpuSE or RAEFORD

TURKE
BREA

LIMIT 2 WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

LB.

Eﬁiﬁﬁt

W&L Water polo dips in Pacific;

CALIFORNIA

ICEBERG
I.E'I"I'UCE

DIET COKE OR
COCA COLA

6 PK.
12 OZ.
CANS

Enjoy

159

| KC»-

Trademarks ®

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE
RAISINS FIRST
COOKIES

i4.I oz 

COOKS IN ONE MINUTE

QUAKER
QUICK OATS .............. ..l8OZ.

TASTY, CRUNCHY QUAKER

HONEY

GRAHAM 0'5 .......... ..l2OZBOX

HT
ORANGE

JUICE ........................ ..<s4 02..

IN THE DELI-BAKERY

FRIED

CHICKEN ........ ..8 PIECE BOX

153
189
I09

99

SELECTED VARIETIES
‘EAGLE RIPPLE
POTATO CHIPS

 69

EXTRA STRENGTH

TYLENOL
CAPLETS

94

50 COUNT

HUNTER FARMS
FUDGE
BARS

I2
COUNT

-5

BANQUET

HEALTHY BALANCE

DINNERS

2/ 00

IO.25-

I I.25

OZ.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1 , 1993

sinks two of three Calif. teams

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Weekending in California, the
Washington and Lee water polo team
swam in a few pools, caught a few rays,
and won two of three tough games
against top California teams.

Appearing at Claremont—McKenna
for the dedication game of the new
pool in Claremont, the Generals fell
11-5 after senior Greg Golub, injured
in the second game of the weekend,
decided he could not play.

This game was encompassed, how-
ever, by two big wins over Pomona,
16-5 and Loyola Marymount, 13-12.

Coach Page Remillard said the
Loyola Marymount game was athriller.

‘‘It was a one-goal game all the
way,” he said. “We scored with 19
seconds to go in the game to win.”

The game was a nail-biter the whole
way; 3-3 at the end of the ﬁrst quarter,
5-4 W&L at the end of the half, and 8-
8 at the end of the third. Loyola
Marymount scored with a second to go
in both the second and third quarters,
keeping the Generals on their toes until
the final two seconds, when a shot in
goal by Loyola was negated by a viola-

tion, and Washington and Lee could
breath fairly easily; though they had
the ball deep in enemy territory.

‘‘It wasn’t over until the buzzer
sounded,” said Remillard.

Washington and Lee, with five play-
ers who call California home on its
roster, as well as coach with California
coaching experience, were at home in
the land of sun. The Generals had trav-
eled to the Pacific once before, six
years ago, to face Pomona and Univer-
sity of California at San Diego, one of
the best teams in water polo.

“It was more like a bowl-game ex-
perience,” said Remillard, who cited
the hosts at Claremont treating the team
to meals and even a trip to the beach.
The mighty Generals were not to be
distracted, however, and pulled off an
upset, a win and a tough loss.

“There were no hitches; everthing
was just like clockwork,” said
Remillard. “We went there to play water
polo, and we did a heck of a good job.”

Other teams, Remillard reported,
were surprised to see an east coast team
play so intensely.

“Loyola Marymount was not ex-
pecting the tenacity of our players;
some voiced doubts about our ability,

and our players overheard,” he said.

This obvious mistake helped W&
hold on for a final victory, bringing its
record to 5-5 on the season.

Probably the toughest season the
Washington and Lee water polo team
has ever faced, 1993 will be a success
if the Generals ﬁnish above the .500
mark.

‘‘If we are going to come out over
the mark, we are going to have to pull
an upset sometime this season,” said
Remillard. “We’re preparing ourselves
to pull that upset; we don’t know when,
but we’ll be ready.”

Facingtoughcompetitionthisweek-
end, the Generals will host an Eastern
Water Polo Association Tournament
at Cy Twombly Pool. Up against the
Generals are Princeton, Georgetown
and Johns Hopkins.

“Princeton is definitely the tough-
est of the teams, and Johns Hopkins
beat us once this year,” said Remillard.
“We probably need to win two of three
to have any opportunity of post-season
play.”

Washington and Lee is a young
team, with plenty of bright future (tough
as it may be) ahead. This team, 5-5 thus
far, could be going places.

 
Prices Effective Throu h October 5, I993

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, Segember 29 Through uesdoy, October 5,1993. In I Lexington ‘ Stores Ph t b B I , ' V" "_ H I 4
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit uontities. None Sold To Dealers. We Glodly Accept Federal Food btomps. womenss Volleyball players bump set spike on their way to eStab“"s‘I’m3;g‘:';:”é::‘g:{J"§e’Z:%:”7 P3’
- _ _ v v - cor
I In Washington and Lee sports this season.

   

Last Week:

WSoc—defeated Hollins, Va. Wes., MWC

MSoc—defeated E&H, Bridge., Guilford
WP—2-1 in California tourney
WX-C—2nd in Dickinson Open

PAGE 10

S

Glln: ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

 

This Week:
FB—at Randolph-Macon 10/02
VB—at Emory tourney 10/01-02
WP—EWPA tourney 10/02-03
MSoc—at Randolph-Macon 10/02

  

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

OCTOBER 1, 199

 

  
notes... . .

. SARAHEONV SPO
BY-SARAH GILBBR
This wcck'f’,d«jtt$t.1x}c
to commeritfon some ran
dom sporting eviems
occurrences in [the
. munity, as sports on

nists arc priigileged to j
_ First, rugby. I attends’
part of a game to,da_y,- an , _
it’s exciting.’ Scrumt”ning,:_’
is actuallyias‘ gootlfas
sounds. When the boys
rugby shirts (yes, t ’ .
is the origin oftlicc
item) startscnimming,
actually cangsee  ‘
callit a scrum. ..

' The action stops oft
though, so perhapsthiis. i’
not the perfect sport
club team is serio

 

 

some do irnoreflspéc’ _
larly »wcil than others"

 

Ha11ofFarne'presentations
and “ the :gt1fdd,ers.~. play
vs hard. and { am‘f.very.proud
, o£theni;butwomen’.s”sI
cerdeservedshe‘ réss’
» an impressive . "
an imponantjijseesb
ass; notyof explana
“Third.  3. 
. , oral. Sonietofgyon 5
wondcringijabfoutjthrs n
. feature iitithc _l_2ing”-ftumj Pi!"
sportsf sacrum. xwashing
ton and Lee Univers‘ '
Radio $P¢rtsand.thcRi:1_g:
tum Phisponssectionhave ,
decidedtofworkincollaf ’
ration to crown and "publto
cize the athlete of the
month every/monthcg
Washington. and Lee.
This month,’ we -ha.
chosen Corinda :1-lanki
for her comebackcjfrom

 
     

 

tioned iniprizssive ta
A Congratulations,

the Fe_v<:rf’bocci   ‘A
in the works. Okay,‘ ..
all my idea. Butltc

the “saints iitirneéfasﬂthose 
Bocci Championships the 3'

not know about,

 - 19‘ me.‘
know, call me,”f8X“[:me,;j

 

write me, and i,:1;_:ry; todo ’
a story on it. Please, no V
ed nakedjanyt 'ng.=_That..~ .
d0¢sn’tc<?l1Iiti-:1;   it ‘

In part

     

. , finig,.j.this’week,;_
A I’d like.t'o’as1§ you allito ,
A support W&L ,sports.,:  .
several coaches reminded‘ ‘
me this week, thesesguys A
work hard. See’ you at the 
ball game. ‘ 1

Women’s soccer extends streak‘

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

  

        
   

 

Some things don’t happen
very often. The Washington &
Lee women’s soccer team de-
feated Virginia-Wesleyan forthe
first time in school history as the
Generals extended their winning
streak to four games.

The 3-1 win encompassed the
two main strengths of Washing-
ton & Lee’s team— explosive
scoring and ironclad defense.
Virginia Wesleyan’s goal was
the first scored against the Gen-
erals in the four game streak.
Earlier in the week against
Hollins, the Lady Generals not
only shut out their opponents,
but did not even allow a shot on
goal.

On the front line, W&L kept
up their torrid scoring pace. Af-
ter trailing for most of the first
half, the offense struck. The
W&L squad exploded for three
goals in a ﬁve minute span. This
comes after tallying 8 scores
against Hollins.

The season has been a re-
markable one for the Lady Gen-
erals. The increased offcnse has
meant less pressure on the dc-
fense, and as the defense gains

confidence, the wins pile up.
“We finally learned how to
score,” states coach Janine
Hathom. And score they have.
After only six games, Washing-
ton and Lee has scored 22 goals.
Throughout last year’s entire
season the team amassed only
19.

Another key factor in this
year’s success is leadership.
Only one senior graduated from
last year’s team. “Last year’s
experience meant a lot,” says
Hathom. The Generals have
relied on a balanced attack. Ten
different players have scored
goals for the team, led by senior
Corinda Hankins whose 17 ca-
reer goals ranks second in team
history.

The next three games will be
mark an acid test for the team
according to Hathom. Games
against Emory, Mary Washing-
ton, and Trinity will challenge
the W&L squad. Hathom clas-
sifics the three opponents as
“very similar in style.”

Watch the Lady Generals for
hot footwork; with the best
record in Washington and Lee
sports this season, they could be
looking at the season of their
history.

[See related story, this page,
for more information.]

Senior Kathleen Eastland courageously fends off an Old Dominion Athletic Conference challenger in the Gener-

als’ win over Randolph-Macon Women's College Sept. 16.

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

 

Barring any natural disas-
ters (earthquakes), there will
be a baseball postseason. CBS,
NBC, and ESPN have agreed
to do 24 hour a day coverage of
the games and teams. By
chance accident, ESPN com-
mentator Chris Berman was
heard to say, “This thing is
larger than life! Holy cow,
everybody has finally realized
that baseball is the only mean-
ingful sport in America!”

Now that l’ve been waked
from that glorious dream (I was
booted out of the lounge dur-
ing a Braves game for
Seinfeld.), here is the way
things shape up in baseball. In
the American League, the ex-
ceptional pennant races that
were supposed to materialize
died on the wing. The Blue
Jays will meet the Chicago
White Sox to determine the
fodder for the Atlanta machine
(just kidding).

Toronto has the edge on ex-
perience, but the White Sox
have a great pitching staff and
Frank Thomas (enough said.).
However, the Blue Jays just
have too much ﬁrepower. Pick:
Blue lays in 6. -

In the National League, the
Philadelphia Phillics are the
team that has clenched already.
The West race is still on. At-
lanta and San Francisco will
likely duel it out to the bitter
end. My money is on Atlanta
down the stretch. No one can
argue that the Braves have the
deepest pitching staff in base-

MLB postseason picks;
unsolicited opinions

ball and the addition of Fred
McGriff to the line—up provided
the charge that put the Braves
overthe top. However,itis still
too early too make a pick (don’t
want to jinx them).

In the wonderful world of
football, last week presented
an incredible series of games.
Last second wins by both the
Vikings and Saints more than
made up for the lackluster
games elsewhere. What was
the deal with the Monday Night
game? What scheduling ge-
nius put the powerhouse At-
lanta Falcons on the schedule?
Sorry folks, but the chances of
Atlanta seeing a football post-
season are crepuscular at best.

__._. ,_.

Parting Shots-

CongratulationstoAnthony
Mazzcrclli of the Washington
and Lee soccer team. There
are a gracious plenty of excep-
tional soccer goalies, but it
takes a real man to SCORE
from that position. You really
did beat Emory & Henry badly,
didn’t you?

Linebacker Brian Cox of
the Miami Dolphins gets the
guts award for the day, though.
While walking onto the ﬁeld
in Buffalo, he made what one
might say is a universal ges-
turetothe Buffalo fans. It cost 3‘
him a hefty fine from the NFL, i
but: Huh... Huh... That was
pretty cool.

Football loses again;
works for experience

By STEPHEN WILLIARD 1
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee foot-
ball team continued to stumble
out of the gate with a loss to
Centre on Saturday. Washing-
ton & Lee did manage to produce
a late game drive that made the
score reasonably close at the end.

Centre College put 14 points
on the board early, and the Gen-
erals spent the rest of the game
playing catch-up. Despite the
loss, the Generals’ passing game
put up some impressive num-
bers. Freshman Brooks Fischer
threw for 205 yards and sopho-
more James Urban caught 7
passes for 98 yards.

The downside of the W&L
attack was the running game.
Tom Mason ga‘ ed only 28 yards

on 12 carries and Wilson Moore
had 51 yards on 10 carries. As a
team,thc Generalsrolled uponly
52 yards rushing (in case you’rc
wondering, the team lost 27
yards rushing that cancelled out
some of their gainsl).

Fischer’s standout perfor-
mancc marked only the second
time in school history that a
freshman has thrown for 200+
yards. Urban’s 7 catch effort
lifted him to third in the ODAC
standings with 4.5 catches per
game.

if the Generals expect to re-
bound against Randolph-Macon
this week they need, no, must,
have a balanced rushing and
passing attack. The tools are
there to have a successful sea-
son, but the pieces have not come
together yet. Tom Mason is a
standout talent at the running

back position and Fischer has
shown his ability to not only con-
tribute, but to put up big numbers.

Washington and Lee needs to
come out this weekend with a
single goal: intensity. The Gen-
erals have something to prove
against Randolph-Macon after
embarassing defeats in each of
the last two years, and something
to prove to the fans after two
losses to open the season.

ODAC standings

Emory&Henry 2-0
Hampden-Sydneyl-0
Randolph-Macon O-0

Bridgewater 0-1
Guilford 0-1
Washington&Lee 0-1

‘Major General Hankins’
closes in on soccer record

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

When a team goes from 5-11 one season to 5-]
early the next, it takes more than a typo to justify
the turnaround.

Washington & Lee’s women’s soccer team has
not only equaled their 1992 win total, they’ve
already surpassed the number of goals scored last
season. There are many reasons forthe turnaround,
but one big one is the return of senior Corinda
Hankins.

Hankins was a first-team All-ODAC pick two
seasons ago, but spent last year studying abroad. It
has not taken her long to rediscover the back of her
opponents’ net. With four goals this season, tied
for the team-lead with Kate Stimeling, Hankins
has moved within three scores of equalling the
school record of 20 career goals. That mark is
currently held by Catherine Baillio (1987-89).

Last week, after scoring twice in an 8-0 rout of
Hollins College, Hankins netted the game-winner
in W&L’s 3-1 victory over Virginia Wesleyan at
the Liberty Hall Fields. The win was the ﬁrst ever
by the Generals over Virginia Wesleyan.

Although the women fell 3-0 Thursday to Mary
Washington, the play of Hankins is one reason
head coach Jan Hathom and the team are thinking
of another first——-their first ODAC championship.

Having outscored theiropponents 22-5 through

IL.

  
        

0 Photoby NancyiPavlov|c, The /ng- urn Phil

six games, the thought of an Old Dominion Athletic
Conference crown is not hard to grasp. Washington
& Lee is 3-0 in the conference with their next
ODAC action coming at home versus Sweet Briar
College (Oct. 7) and Guilford College (Oct. 9).

Should the team continue to roll, Hankins Will
surely play no small pan.

 

 

Photo by Nancy Pavlovic, The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Corinda Hankin’s heroics on the field have earned the first Major General

award for the month of September, 1993.

     

Sp@@:T_a1 Smplmﬂnt

Ta£PF«‘5 nose 0N5: we 0
514%! A   pﬁa  M an em!

   

 

  

 

Heomecomin

  

The Connells stop at “the big barn”

Band returns to Lexington hoping to build on past successes

By HILLARY OLSON
Phi Staff Writer

Popular alternative rock band “The
Connells” will perform at the Pavilion this
Friday at 8:30 p.m. for Homecoming week-
end.

Queen Sarah Saturday, known for
their forceful guitar songs, will begin the
concert, followed by the opening band
“Cracker” at 10 pm. The Connells should
start at 1] p.m., according to StudentActivi-
ties Board President John Kleckley.

The Connells’ visit is timely since
their new album, “Ring”, hasjust come out.
According to vocalist and guitarist Doug
MacMillan, the album has been successful
so far.

Radio stations in San Diego and Long
Island have already picked up the ﬁrstsingle,
“Slackjawed,” which MacMillan said the
Connells will play Friday. The band plans to
play several songs from “Ring,” he said.

MacMillan fondly remembered play-
ing twice in one day at W&L several years
ago for Fancy Dress.

“The big barn [the Pavilion] is a really
cool place to play,” MacMillan said. ‘‘I’m
anticipating a good night Friday.”

Currently on tour throughout the
United States, The Connells will make a
stop in Las Vegas for the first time next
week. MacMillan said that although touring

is fun, at points everybody “gets tired and
wants to go home.”

Cracker, the California-based open-
ing band, is “not an easy act to follow,” said
MacMillan.

One member, David Lowery, for-
merly performed in Camper Van Beethoven.
MacMillan said The Connells and Cracker
share similar musical sounds but have mark-
edly different styles.

The Connells — brothers Mike and
David Connell —grew up in Macon, Geor-
gia, where Otis Redding, Little Richard,
and the Allman Brothers also originated.
The brothers relate more to the sounds of the
Beatles and Humble Pie, however, and their
music reflects this tendency.

The Connell brothers’ college band
gained momentum and within a year re-
corded its first album, “Boylan Heights”,
followed by “Fun and Games”, an all-time
favorite of many fans.

“One Simple Word” was produced in
Wales in 1990. The Connells took a break
from their 3-year touring to record “Ring”,
their newest release.

SAB president Kleckley said that The
Connells have been a hit here many times
and Friday should be no exception. He said
that as always the SAB was limited by
money and routing difficulties, but he is
pleased with the choice of The Connells.

Tickets for the concert are on sale in
the Co-op Wednesday through Friday for
$8. Tickets at the door will cost $10.

¢*********‘k***k****ir******A"k*****

‘K************‘k*********‘k***********

 

Back

Alumni

Relive old times
at The Plains

101 W Nelson St.
463-7911
444444444¥444444444444¥4444444

‘Kl-‘V-¥‘V-4¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥‘V-¥¥¥

  o

 

 

 

The Rin - mPhIOctobe 1993

 

Iomecoming '93 ' ‘

 

Page 3

 

  Generals dust off, aim high

Team tries to break slump with Homecoming Win

By Sarah Gilbert
Phi Sports Editor

In the best of all possible worlds, I would
be predicting a win for this year’s homecoming
football game against Davidson.

But, as Candide discovered, this is not the
best of all possible worlds, the Generals of good
old Washington and Lee have yet to win a game
this season, and the last homecoming win was in
1990.

Even in a good year (i.e. last year, the
Generals turned the team from a 1-9 misery in
1991 to a somewhat victorious 5-4 squad in
1992) the Generals fell short at homecoming.

After a shocking 9 to 31 embarrassment at
the hands of the Yellow Jackets, the General’s
fans can only hope that the team will at least rise
from the ashes of tradition.

Have a heart, Washington and Lee fans.
This year’s squad actually features a few play-
ers who have had the experience of a win at
homecoming.

Every senior who played when he was a
freshman will remember the glorious 21 to 7
whuppingthe Generals took out on the Hampden-

 

3‘, ,.

Sydney Tigers.

My high hopes rest in the once—broken
hands of senior tri-captain Tom Mason, who
was actually a starting defensive back his fresh-
man year. With that experience and a promising
start this year, even though his supporting cast
has not been able to pull off a win, he may be able
to provide the leadership and kick-in-the-rear
these Generals need to overcome the Wildcats.

On a brighter note, the Generals lead the
series with Davidson 14-9-1. The rivalry dates
back to 1909, when W&L beat the Wildcats 18
to 6. More recently, the Generals lost the two
match-ups in 1977 and ’78, took a hiatus, and
came back in 1991 to play Davidson and lose
again, 14 to 16.

Thankfully, last years’ squad was victori-
ous in its face-off against the Wildcats, walking
over the poor kitties 27 to 12.

The good news: the Generals beat
Davidson last year. The bad news: this year’s
team looks, sadly, much more like the 1991
squad than the 1992 one.

All in all, we will have to set a precedent
to win this Saturday. It is not impossible but...l
wouldn’t bet on it.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 

Above: Geren Steiner launches the ball as the
Randolph-Macon linemen advance in last year’s
Homecoming game.

Left: Wilson Moore makes a dash for a hole in the
Yellowjackets’ line.

j-‘ILL If I II--L

§= I WIVII UIIIEV

THE LARGEST SELECTION OF MOVIES, VIDEO GAMES, & TRADING CARDS IN THE AREA!
NEW SELECTION OF LICENSED COLLEGE & PRO SPORTS CAPS & T-SHIRTS

*** FREE MEMBERSHIP & GIFT WITH THIS AD! ***
SUNDAY — THURSDAY 10 A.M. — 10 P.M. FRIDAY & SATURDAY 10 A.M. — 11 P.M.

LEXINGTON-BUENA VISTA SHOPPING CENTER
463-9654 T

I

  

lntemational Club
Assia Georgieva, W&L ’95

“Academic excellence, social
leadership and also extracurricu-
lar involvement.” ’

 

Pi Beta Phi

Christine Grandinetti, W&L
’94

Escorted by Lawson Brice ’95
“The Homecoming Queen
should be dedicated to the tradi-
tion and spirit of W&L.”

    

Kappa Alpha

Julie G. Giddens, Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College ’94
Escorted by Dan Rhodes ’94
“The Homecoming Queen
should be a warm and friendly
person. lt’s more a personality
thing than a beauty contest.”

  
   

 

Sigma Nu

Cindy Gregory, Duke ’95
Escorted by Mark Crider ’95
“The ability to enthusiastically
represent the position with the
grace, intelligence and poise it
requires.”

   

Student Bar Association
Elizabeth Mason, W&L ’94
Law

Escorted by David Lawrence ’94
Law

“Diversity.”

  

 

Sigma Alpha Epsilon sigma Chi

Kappa Kappa Gamma

Amy Rash, W&L ’94 Caroline Johnson, Hollins ’95 Heather Aussiker, w&]

Escorted by Andy Dutton Escorted by G Mattingly ’96 Escorted by Jim Gilreath
“The ability to laugh at one- “That they’re truly proud to rep- “A burning desire to H551

self.” resent the fraternity or social or-

ganization that nominated them.”

President since he’s ever
than last year’s.”

 

Alpha Phi Omega

Elizabeth Dettmar, W&L ’94
Escorted by Keith E. Grant ’94
“She should be someone who
has left W&L a little better than
she found it.”

Z1/i[[ wear
tﬂe crown?

What is the most
important characteristic

a Homecoming Queen
should have?

Phi Kappa Sigma

Kylie Edwards, W&L ’96
Escorted by Alex Haw ’96
“A sense of dedication to
honor, integrity and the
tradition of genuiness at
W&L.”

   

Phi Gamma Delta

Carrie Southgate, W&L ’95
Escorted by Tinkham Veale IV
’95

“She should be a very outgoing
person who should care about
her school and the people who
are there.”

        

Kappa Alpha Theta

Pi Kappa Alpha Kappa Sigma

Kirsten Ergenbright,W&L’94 Lollie Sheehan, W&L ’94 Kristen M00", W&L ’9‘
Escorted by Thomas Becker ’96 “A sense of humor.” ESC0l'ted by Rob MCGinl€j
“She must be: smart, talented, “Someone who doesn’t tal<
witty, attractive and involved in so seriously.”

campus activities — and an avid
viewer of the MacNeill-Lehrer
Report.”

 

1 Alpha Epsilon
line Johnson, Hollins ’95
ted by G. Mattingly ’96
they’re truly proud to rep-
the fraternity or social or-
ttion that nominated them.”

Sigma Chi
Heather Aussiker, W&L ’94
Escorted by Jim Gilreath ’94
“A burning desire to kiss the EC
President since he’s even cuter
than last year’s.”

wi[[zz/ear
tﬂe crown?

What is the most
important characteristic

a Homecoming Queen
should have?

 

1 Sigma
Sheehan, W&L ’94
se of humor.”

     

Kappa Alpha Theta
Kristen Moore, W&L ’94
Escorted by Rob McGinley
“Someone who doesn’t take life
so seriously.”

 

Chi Psi
Kim Herring, W&L ’95
Escorted by Eric D. Lundquist
’94

“I think that it’s most important
that the Homecoming Queen
have a love and a respect for all
of [W&L’s] aspects from aca-
demics to athletics to just being
involved in the W&L commu-
nity because of her love and re-
spect for it.’

Delta Tau Delta
Rachel Wright, W&L ’97
Escorted by Gregory Patterson
’94

“Honesty in presentation of self
because too many people hide

themselves behind a facade.”

Phi Delta Theta

Molly Hoops, Hollins ’96
Escorted by Billy Guice ’94
“As the Homecoming Queen,
others are going to notice the
quality and standards you have
set for yourself and it will be an

opportunity to inﬂuence others.”

 

if .
Beta Theta Pi
Stephanie Cobrin, W&L ’96
Escorted by Tim McCarthy ’94
‘‘It would be an overall love for
her school so she can represent it
well.”

 

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Amanda Doss, W&L ’94
Escorted by Peer Soderberg ’92
Mandy was not available to an-
swer the question.

 

   

Lambda Chi Alpha

Tonya Uplinger, W&L ’96
Escorted by Will Shepherd

“A Homecoming queen should
be someone who is active at
W&L, as well as being active
outside of campus where they

represent W&L.”

 

Chi Omega
Stacey Colfry, W&L ’94
Escorted by Jay LaCour

“The Homecoming Queen.

should be someone who posesses
aloveofand prideinW&Lwhich
is exemplified by her active in-
volvement in all facets of cam-
pus life.”

   
 
  

 

Minority Students Association
LaKeisha Townes, W&L ’95
Escorted by John Rogers ’95
“The Homecoming Queen
should be a person who is honest
and sincere to reflect the integ-
rity and honor of W&L.”

 

Phi Kappa Psi

Sarah Butler, W&L ’94
Escorted by Chip Hathaway
“The Homecoming Queen
should be enthusiastic and proud
of W&L and should express this
through her involvement in the
W&L community. ”

\

  

Pi Kappa Phi
Sandy Bookout, Hollins
Escorted by Matt Newton ’94
“Personality. Someone who is
friendly and outgoing and com-
fortablewithavariety of people.”

 

E3996;

 

Holmecolininig (93  .

Mink mystery explained

Up and coming legendedies early death

By Erin Leonard

Phi Contributing Writer

 

Perhaps you heard last fall that
Kathekon found a long forgotten trophy in
the attic of the Alumni House.

Well, you heard wrong.

Though the story had the making of a
great W&L legend, the truth is even better.

After deciding to revive the Home-
coming parade last fall, Kathekon decided
to award a prize for the best ﬂoat.

“[Kathekon] wanted something gaudy
and tacky,butrelativetoW&L,” said Alumni
Staff Associate Jerilyn Ferrin ’93.

Associate Alumni Director Rob Mish
’76 and then Alumni Staff Associate Matt
Felber ’92 decided a stuffed mink would be
appropriate.

The idea stemmed from the name
W&L Minks. Minks were students who,
when W&L was all-male, slyly picked up
VMI cadets’ dates after the cadets’ curfew.

Mish and Farber began calling taxi-

dermists in September. To their dismay, the
only minks available were frozen and
unembalmed. Raccoons and an alligator
were available, but no minks.

To make matters worse, taxidermists
claimed it would take five weeks to thaw a
mink. Homecoming was three weeks away.

Mish and Farber were about to give
up when they located a man with a frozen
mink in Abingdon, VA, who could thaw and
embalm the animal in two weeks. Elated,
the two gave him the job.

Mish said the man asked all kinds of
funny questions such as — What kind of
facial expression should the mink have?
Should he stand or sit? Should his arms be
crossed?

When the embalming was ﬁnished,
Mish took the mink to Valley Trophy in
Staunton. Owner Kelly Clendening mounted
him on the trophy and named him Critter.
The final product pleased Mish. He thinks
that Critter represents another side of W&L
students.

“One of the things that W&L alumni
are noted for is their honor. Lee is good
stuff,” Mish said.

Varner & Pole
Specializing in Unfurnished
Eurniture &Shades
_19 S; Randolph St.
Lexm ton, VA 463-2742

ew Locatton! ’

Have a safe and
happy weekend

The Phi is

oh angi
Seejust ﬂow mucﬁ frizfay

ng...

 

Lexington's
lively Bistro
and

Outdoor Patio.

 
 

Every Monday

Now Accepting Reservations
J for Parents’ Weekend

Point Cards available - Charge them Home!

Night

5-9 p.m.

7

AB1LS17’U

19 West Washington Street
(703) 464-1900

“The mink is all those other little
things that make W&L people who they
are.”

Critter, who has been on display in
the bookstore for three weeks, appears very
mellow.

Standing 15 inches high on his back
legs, he wears a blue and white t-shirt that
says, “Somebody from Washington & Lee
University loves me.” He also carries and
alumni name tag. His posture, like most
W&L students, is not great, but he looks
confident.

His sleek coat is brown except for a
wide white stripe that runs down his neck.
Critter’s tiny black eyes convey a sharp
intellect that people might not notice at first.

His grin is nonchalant yet knowl-
edgeable, “like he heard a dirty joke on
something,” said Mish.

Kathekon will award the trophy Sat-
urday at half-time of the football game.
Kappa Kappa Gamma won last year, and it
is rumored that they want to win again.

After a photo shoot with the winner,
Critter will go home to Mish’s office and
wait for next year.

Critter, the W&L Mink Pi” p"°‘°

 

Hair Salon

Good thru 10/31

SHEAR nmrns 

Specials
Tanning Special-10 visits for $25.00 A

$2.00 Off on a hot oil manicure.

Penni - Gail

17 S. Randolph St.

  

464-1145
V W& \\
Signatures:
Fitzhugh Lee R_E, Lee
M. Miley John Letcher
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr.
Sam Houston A, P, H111

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

ﬂlilllllilltﬁ
liilllillll

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
J4

 

0 The Ring-tumPhi October 79993

   

Homecoming '93

‘ P3ge7

UIP treatment for alumni

Class of ’43 to get red carpet treatment

By Michelle Brien
Phi News Editor

One would expect a five star general
to be busy. ,-

But none will be as busy as Washing-
ton and Lee’s Five Star Generals this Home-
coming Weekend.

W&L’s Five-Star Generals are the
50-year plus alumni. This year’s inductees
to the Five-Star club are members of the
class of 1943.

The Five-Stars get red carpet treat-
ment from the moment they step into Lex-
ington.

There will be a fully stocked Hospi-
tality Room for all Five-Star Generals in the
Lexington Room of the Howard Johnson
Hotel, which will be open from 5 to 11:30
pm. on Friday and Saturday. Buses will run
a shuttle service between HoJo and W&L
from Friday morning through Saturday af-
ternoon.

The Alumni House will also pay for -

one night of the Five Stars’ hotel stay, a
rental car, and will waive the usual reunion
fee.

Rob Mish, Assistant Director of
Alumni Programs, has made sure that the
Generals will be treated with respect.

“We generally treat them as Alumni
VIPs,” said Mish.

Featured programs for the Generals
include an audience participation-based
seminar hosted by Professor of History Holt
Merchant, ‘61. Merchant hopes to delve to
the bottom of several W&L folklore mys-
teries with the help of the Five-Stars Gener-
als.

For example, Merchant hopes to un-
ravel the W&L train heist mystery. Appar-
ently a fraternity hijacked a train to take
their Fancy Dress dates back to Mary
Baldwin. That fraternity was kicked off
campus, but no one here seems to know
which fraternity it was. Worse yet, no one
seems to know the exact date of the episode
either.

Other topics of discussion will be the
origins of W&L’s nick-name “Minks”, and
whether Traveller is really buried outside of
Lee Chapel.

In addition to Mish’s endeavors from
the Alumni House, some of the Five-Stars
planned activities for themselves. Class of

VISA

 

Celebrate Holidays,
Bags, Play Secret Santa, Remember Friends,
Relatives & Business Associates with . . .

Fine Handmade Chocolate Confections
On Campus Delivery / Mail Order Anywhere
Call 1-800-421-6220 or 1-703-464-8400

Send Exam Goodie

MASTERCARD

John Dean ‘76
Tom Katz

?
%
%
%
é
%
%
¢
%
/
/
/
a
f
f
%
¢
¢
¢
%
/
f
¢
¢
¢
¢
¢
/
/
¢
%
¢
¢
%
a
f
%
¢
¢
%
/

HOMECOMING
BOOKSIGNING
PARTY

Saturday, Oct. 9th
1 to 2 p.m.

W&L Bookstore

The Great Wagon Road

EVERYONE WELCOME!

. I /II/I/II /IIIIII/I/I/IIIIIII/III//IIIII//II/IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Parke Rouse, Jr. ‘37

§\&\\§\\\\®Wt\\\\\\§\\&\\\\\\§\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

’38 alumnus Ernie Williams has cooked up
a variety of interesting dishes for the “38er
Alligators” 55th year class reunion —
W&L’s first 55th year reunion. The Gators
will have Ramblin’ Man the llama bearing
a Gator ﬂag in the Homecoming Parade, as

well as Homecoming souvenirs bearing the

Gator emblem. Some Five-Stars will ride in

horse drawn carriages in the parade. All
Five-Star Generals will be invited to-sit in
the special reserved parade viewing space
in front of Robert E. Lee Episcopal Church.

Thanks to Williams, the homecom-
ing football game halftime should be an
event to remember. But don’t ask why -
it’s a secret. Just come to the game.

 

Distinctive headgear identifies a Five-Star General

Alumni Office photo

 

The l’|;tcc\\"l1cI‘c I-'11

“Let their;
eat steak.

(“Then, give them any regular 6"sub* of their
choice forjust 99¢ .”)

No wonder things went bad for Marie Antoinette.
She said, “Let them eat cake;”not “steak.” Anyway, we’re playing
it smart, because for a limited time when you buy a delicious Steak 8( Cheese
Sub with a medium soft drink, we’ll give you any regular 6" sub‘ for just 99¢.
(Hey, we’ve got our heads on straight over here.)

  

N‘

is t|1c'llI.\lc.

 

V 503 E. Nelgsonmsgt. Lexington, VA 24450

Page 8

Th

 

 

O I 0

e Rln -tum Phi October 7 1993

 

Revived parade returns

Old tradition continues comeback for second year

By Cathy Resmer
Phi Contributing Reporter

The Washington and Lee Homecom-
ing parade will make its second appearance
in a quarter of a century this Saturday.

The official parade will begin in front
of Brubaker ﬁeld at 11:00 a.m. tomorrow
morning. lt will follow the same route as the
Mock Convention parade, traveling down
South Main Street through town, turning
left on Washington Street. lt will then pro-
ceed through campus and end.after passing
the Woods Creek Apartments.

The parade features a varied array of
participants. Non-W&L parade members
include fire departments, marching bands,
and mayor Homer E. Derrick. Alumni groups
involved in the event include the Five-Star
Generals, and the Class of ’38 complete
with the mysterious Hotchkiss llama. Vari-
ous campus organizations and every W&L
sorority and fraternity are scheduled to par-
ticipate as well.

Most of the W&L participants have
constructed parade ﬂoats for the occasion.
There will be five judges who will be sta-
tioned in a grand stand on the cornerof Main

and Nelson streets. The judges will be rating
the ﬂoats on a scale of one to ten in three
categories—creativity and originality, de-
sign and execution, and spirit and enthusi-
asm.

The first place ﬂoat will win the cov-
eted mink trophy, seized last year by Kappa
Kappa Gamma. The three runners—up will
also receive prizes.

Kathekon, the student-alumni rela-
tions committee, is responsible for reviving
the Homecoming parade.

Last year’s parade was the first at
W&L in over 25 years. Before the parade ..
was reintroduced, students celebrated by 
decorating fraternity houses on the evening
prior to the football game. 2

Kathekon,withthe helpofthe Alumni
Office, has been organizing this year’s pa-
rade since last spring.

According to Jerilyn Ferrin, Secre-
tary of Kathekon, “the parade will go on,
rain or shine.” “But,” she said, “we are all
keeping our fingers crossed for good
weather.”

Ferrin also said that she hopes the
good weather holds for a few hours after the
parade, “for the half-time surprise.”

3: L,

Sigma Nu’s float heads down Main Sreet I ‘last year’s parade

VI SA

- Fanc

ALVIN-DENNIS, INC.

102 W WASHINGTON ST.
463-5383

WELCOME W&LALU1VINI

- Woolrich
- Duckhead
- Ra _-Bans
- Red lng Boots

- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos

- Embassy oxers

Alumni Special

Suits and Sportcoats
20% Off

Open This,Sunday at 10:00 a.m.

MASTERCARD

Cummerbund and Tie Sets
- W L Belts, Ties Dog Collars

STUDENT CHARGE

 

