 

.tlF'«l'v‘.E6 G. I.E‘r’.‘.'s‘ WEN t, :‘r/2-2 
INNS} lil‘tCl-l“C' ‘
LE)’.lNCi ll.-‘N. VA 

P-I

 
 

  

' ‘. as u-:»t,r..»>:»z dig." 

 

Bridging the (lap

MAR E ' 19919

Campus groups hope to improve race

relations with Boiler Room partu 3

\X/omeh’s LAX ahhihilates

the Competition

 

. Cline Ring-tum lﬂlti

VOLUME 93, NO. 22

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 11, 1994

Students’ rooms burglarized

By MICHELLE BRIEN
O Phi News Editor

Freshman Jay Taggart found his room in
shambles and many of his belongings stolen
when he returned from an out—of-town trip last
weekend.

Taggart, who lives in room 127 of Graham-
Lws dormitory, reported Saturday that his lap-
top computer, stereo equipment and CD changer
were stolen from his room, and his amplifier
and graphic equalizer had been vandalized.

Washington and Lee Director of Security
Michael Young said the stolen and damaged
items totaled more than $2,000.

V omeone entered Taggart’s room again on
M nday, Young said. Taggart’s clothing had
been removed from the closet and thrown around
the room.

Young said on Tuesday that a re—examina-
tion of the room turned up 20 to 25 damaged or
broken CD5. Young did not know if the damage

had been done during one of the previous en-
trances to the room or if someone had entered
Taggart’s room a third time. _

“My feeling is that someone within this
campus community knows who’s responsible,”
Young said. “I don’t believe it’s local thieves.
Anyone who saw anything unusual in or around
that room, I ask them to come forward.”

Young said Security has no suspects in the
break-ins as of yet. Young speculated that the
vandals came in through Taggart’s door. Al-
though Taggart’s room is on the first floor,
Young said it was “not likely” the vandals
entered through the window.

The first break-in occurred between 2 p.m.
and 4:30 p.m. on Friday, according to Young.
The Monday break-in occurred between 5:30
p.m. and 6:30 p.m., during the eating hours at
the dining hall.

“This is obviously directed at Jay,” said a
freshman who asked not to be identified be-
cause of possible retaliation against him from

#53? 

§ .

#4!

the perpetrators of the break-in. “It’s happened
twice already in broad daylight. It disgusts me.
I wish they’d leave him the hell alone.”

The freshman also said some ofthe damage
done to the room appeared to be a methodical
sort of destruction, not simply a trash and run
break-in.

“It took some time,” he said. “The CDs were
not just scratched, but scratched with a distinct
pattern.”

“I can understand how they probably got
away with it——— it happened in the afternoon. He
was out of town. Somehow they knew when
he’s not there. [It happened Monday] during
dinner time. They knew he would be away.” he
said.

Taggart could not be reached for comment
after several messages were left on his answer-
ing machine and with his friends.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard said
police are working with security on the case. He
said the police have no leads in the case.

“This hasn’t been the best year for him,” the
freshman who wished to remain anonymous
said. “On top of all that, this pesky stuff, too.
It’s ridiculous.”

The freshman referred to Taggart’s involve-
ment in the Phi Gamma Delta hazing case
earlier this year. The report which Dean Of
Freshman and Residence Life Dennis Manning
made to the Student Affairs Committee and
which ultimately led to FIJl’s suspension was
based on a conversation between Manning and
Taggart.

Young said anyone with information about
the break-ins could make a report in the security
office in the Graham-Lees dorm, or could call
security at 462-8999.

“This is the kind ofstuffthat simply doesn’t
happen at Washington and Lee,” Young said.

There was also a theft in Gaines Hall during
the Fancy Dress weekend.

One hundred fifty dollars in cash was stolen
from Gaines Suite I44.

Sophomore Stephanie DallVechia said the
money was taken from her purse, which she left
in her room while she was at the Fancy Dress
Ball Friday night. DallVechia said no one was
in the suite and the door was unlocked at the
time of the theft.

Young and Beard said police and security
have no suspects.

“I lock my door now,” said DallVechia.

Also in police stories, 11 W&L students
were arrested during Fancy Dress weekend,
most for alcohol related offenses such as under-
age possession of alcohol and drunkenness in
public.

Beard said he thought the weekend went
well overall. ,

“Eleven arrests is about normal for FD week-
end. I’d like to see it lower, but all in all it was
a good weekend.”

Young agreed. -

‘‘I didn’t see the amount of staggering, fall-
ing down drunks [that I usually do at FD].”

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, special to the Phi

ﬁt‘

Ballgoers dance to the music of the B0 Thorpe Orchestra at this year’s Fancy Dress. The “Magical Carpet Ride” theme was
accentuated by belly dancers, a live camel and a gymful of decorations, including a ﬂying carpet hanging from the gym ceiling.

FD experiences revenue loss

 

  Revisions
submitted

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi Executive Editor

The White Book Review
Committee Monday submitted its
proposed list of White Book re-
visions to the Executive Com-

-- mittee of the Student Body.

“The changes we are propos-
ing reﬂect our attempt to make
the Honor System more acces-
sible and more easily under-
stood,” said White Book Com-
mittee Chairman Ames Hutton
in a letter to the EC and the stu-
dent body.

“We’vefrnished ourdelibera-
tions as a committee,” said
Hutton.

Hutton said the WBRC will
meet with the EC on Monday
after the EC’s regular meeting
and possibly on Tuesday and
Wednesday to “discuss, debate,
argue... and try to sell [the revi-
sions] to the EC.”

Hutton’s letter was accompa- ‘

nied by several proposed changes
to the White Book, including a
solution to the problem of EC
investigators voting on the guilt
or innocence of a suspect in an
honor trial. The revisions also

allow for the EC to refer certain
incidents to “other disciplinary
bodies,” including the Student
Conduct Committee and the Stu-
dent-Faculty Hearing Board.

The make-up of the investi-
gative team that looks into pos-
sible honor violations is also a
proposed change. The WBRC
suggested that the team, previ-
ously comprising two members
of the EC and a member of the
-student body, be made up of one
member of the EC, an honor ad-
vocate and a student.

“The Executive Committee
member serving as investigator
shall not be counted towards this
quorum and shall not vote in sub-
sequent proceedings,” stated the
suggested revisions to Section I,
paragraph B.

Junior EC Representative and
Vice President-elect Alex Cross
said he agreed with this revision.
Cross said under the present sys-
tem, the EC members are told to
be fair and impartial in their fact-
finding during an investigation.
If EC members are supposed to
be impartial, he asked “How can
you make someone on the EC a
‘prosecutor?”’

Cross commended the WBRC
on their efforts.

“There’s a lot of really good
proposals,” he said. “I commend
them on a really good and thor-
ough job.”

Additionally, the honor advo-

i>See WBRC, page 4

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer
radition is a way of life at

Washington and Lee and Fancy

Dress weekend is probably the
ultimate tradition at the school.»

Last weekend marked the 87th
anniversary of the renowned
event. The theme for the occa-
si was “A Magical Carpet
Ride” and the ball held to that
theme in every possible manner.
A live camel, belly dancers, the
Marshall Tucker Band, and a
$76,000 budget were pan of the
extravaganza.

Because of the same inclem-

ent weather that suspended ath-
letic events for a week, the Fancy
Dress sales did not match what
was originally expected. FD au-
ditor Julie Townsend estimated
the losses will be $6,000 to
$10,000.

“We could be $3,000 under
budget and still not make up for
the revenue loss,” said Townsend.

To make up for the loss, op-
tions are being considered to cre-
ate extra revenue. The
committeee is trying to work out
a deal to sell extra T-shirts back
to the manufacturer as well as to
the W&L community in front of
the Co-op. .

“We felt good about this FD;
we’ve gotten a lot of positive
feedback,” added Townsend.

Work on Fancy Dress began
long before the actual event took
place. Actual construction began
as early as January 29 off-cam-
pus where many of the large items
were built. Work continued for
about a week and a halfon things
such as risers, flats, and other
items that had to be'mass pro-
duced.

The construction committee,
composed of Sub-Chairman Joe
Framptom, Leo Decanini, Jarrod
Aldom, Tory Noto, and Doug
Burns, was responsible for most

of the decorations at the ball.

“We worked afternoons and
some evenings every day, and on
weekends, we worked all day,”
Framptom said.

This year’s ball surpassed its
predecessor in amount of con-
struction, according to
Framptom.

“This year we had about a
third more construction,”
Framptom said. “We had more
to do; we just got it done faster
for some reason.”

“I was pretty pleased with the
way it went; it went pretty
smoothly,” Framptom added.

Forthose wondering aboutthe

$4,000 for “stumps” which was
listed in the playbill, Framptom
said Stumps is a company that
sellsdecorative paper, cardboard,
mylar, and other supplies.
Theweekend offestivitiesthat
accompanies the ball began for
some on Wednesday evening and
continued in some cases until
Sunday. According to the Lex-
ington Police, the weekend was
relatively quiet compared to past
“I’ve been involved in 25 FDS
and I tell them [the officers] each
year it gets better, but I swear I
think this one was the best one

H->See FD, page 4

By THOMAS HESPOS
6 Phi News Editor

The results of this year’s Big Four
elections are in.

Washington and Lee’s next President
of the Student Body and Executive Com-
mittee President will be Kevin Webb, ’88,
’95L. ’

‘I ’m looking forward to implementing
the changes that come from the White
Book review process,” said Webb. ‘‘I’m
also looking forward to working with the
new dean of the law school regarding how
the Honor System is perceived by the law
students and the faculty and seeing if we
cat improve on that.”

Webb said future goals of his presi-
dency include dropping the
controversial speaker fund,
maintaining the EC’s non-
partisan funding policy and
improving on the Honor
System orientation.

‘‘I’m also hoping to en-
courage some commentary
on EC decisions so that they
most reﬂect the desires of
the student body as a
whole,” he said.

Webb received 619
votesforpresident. Reuben
Munger received 236
votes, while Carol Pierce,

who dropped out of the race at the last I

 

minute, received 76. In a level.”
letter to the student body,
Pierce cited “many per-
sonal misgivings” as her
reason for departing from
the race.

“Over the past two
years, I have valued my
terms on the EC gaining
an appreciation for the
Honor Code and an es-
teem for other campus
leaders,” stated Pierce in
her letter. “Having spent

Candidates with experience dominate

continue my involvement on a higher

Pierce concluded her letter with an
endorsement for Webb.

“Best of luck to Kevin. I know he will
make an excellent leader of the student
body,” stated Pierce’s letter.

CurrcntJuniorECRepresentativeAlex
Cross won the race for Vice President
with 532 votes.
Joseph, received 423.

Cross said he would like to have a
retreat at Skylark, the university-owned
retreat, with next year’s committee to
discuss the budget.

His opponent, Curtis

my time there, a large part
of me would have liked to

bSee BIG FOUR, page 4

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

John McCardell, Jr. ’71 gives his convocation speech.

PBK snags 49

By MICHAEL HEwLErr
Phi Staff Writer

On March 10 at 12:15 p.m.,
29 seniors and I2 juniors were
initiated into Phi Beta Kappa.

The Sophomore Award for
the highest GPA in the past four
terms went to Graig Fantuzzi,
who currently has a GPA of4.28.
The Edward Penny Prize went to
seniors Benjamin Eggleston and
Matthew Jackson.

W&L alumnus John
McCardell, Jr. ’71, president of
Middlebury College and a re-
ported nominee for president of
the university, gave the convoca-
tion speech. Hetitled hisspeech,
“Vis Nova”, which means “new
force” in Latin. He took his title
from Vis Nova.‘ The Education of
Henry Adams, which he de-
scribed as a chronicle of a life-

|I>See PBK, page 4

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

Palestinians riot at compound

Palestinians threw stones at Jews in a Hebrew compound
in the same city where a Jewish man shot worshippers in a
mosque two weeks ago. Soldiers attempted to subdue the
Palestinians with tear gas and rubber bullets. The outburst
began after a curfew that was placed after the mosque killings
was lifted for two hours. The army lifted the curfew to allow
Palestinians to buy food.

The Nation

White House aides, Treasury
officials subpoenaed

    

White House aides and Treasury officials have been sub-
poenaed by a grand jury investigating the Whitewater affair.
The White House turned over a stack of documents related to
the incident. The grand jury is investigating the Clintons’
investment in the Arkansas land development and its rela-
tions to a failed savings and loan. In a related poll, more than
60 percent of those polled believe President Clinton has done
something illegal or unethical related to the Whitewater
affair. -

Accused spies’ assets frozen

Alleged spy Aldrich Ames and his wife R_os_ario_ are fight-
ing the government seizure of their $2.2 million in ‘alleged
spying payoffs from Russia. The Ames are claiming severe
hardship” and the dependence of their son in an attempt to
keep the money. Both are fighting charges of selling national
secrets to the Soviet Union. ‘

Mary J 0, I’m coming home

Mary J o Buttafuoco is planning a celebration for her
husband Joey’s release from jail on March 23. On the night
following Buttafuoco’s release, the Buttafuocos will host a
party for 200 guests including talk radio host Howard Stern.
Buttafuoco, who received a six-month sentence for having
sex with minor Amy Fisher, also plans a charity boxing
match with Geraldo Rivera.

Tobacco industry workers
protest cigarette tax

More than 16,000 tobacco industry workers marched from
the White House to the Capitol to protest President Clinton’s
proposal to triple the cigarette tax. Clinton has proposed his‘
tax hike to help finance his health care plan. The tobacco
industry says the rise will depress sales, costing the tobacco
industry up to 275,000 jobs. According to the Tobacco
Action Coalition, southern states will be hit 3.5 times harder
than the rest of the nation.

Cigarettes to become part
of schools’ war on drugs

The United States House of Representatives voted Wednes-
day to add cigarettes to the list of drugs that schools combat
in drug-education programs. Supporters of the amendment
said children should be educated on the dangers of tobacco as
well as alcohol and narcotics.

John Candy dies at 43

Comic actor John Candy was found dead Friday on a
movie set. Candy began his career in Second City, a Chicago
based comedy troupe. He went on to star in TV shows and
movies such as “Uncle Buck,” “Planes, Trains & Automo-
biles” and “Only The Lonely.” Candy died of a heart attack.
He was 43.

The State

Lt. Governor’s mansion
damaged by fire

A fire that broke out Wednesday caused $30,000 in dam-
age to the home of Lieutenant Governor Donald Beyer. No
one was injured in the fire, which started in a kitchen on the
second ﬂoor. -

Proposed interstate may pass
through Roanoke

The Virginia Department of Transportation is recom-
mending two options for a proposed interstate that would
run through southwest Virginia. The highway would either
follow Interstate 77 through Wytheville or create a new
route through Blacksburg, Roanoke, and Martinsville.

 

 
 

 

Duvall returns to classes

he has heard about meningitis fatalities, “even joint

By HILLARY OLSON

_ . pains aren’t bad,” he said.
Phz Staff Writer

Junior Tyler Duvall returned to campus last
week, after he was released from treatment for a
sudden development of a meningococcal infection
in early February. 0

Duvall said his ﬁrst year at Washington and Lee
since transferring from Colby College in Maine-
has “made me appreciate my health much more.
l’ve heard horrible stories about people with men-
ingitis, and so my minor pains seem like nothing.”

Duvall dropped two classes and is now taking
two. He said he probably will not need to. go to
summer school because he was three credits ahead
at Colby. _ —

He said his recovery will be slow, but his only
real pain is a swelling in his joints typical of the

after-effects of the illness. Considering the stories measures seemed like nothing,” he said.

 

Duvall said he remembers being a little scared
when he was carried to the University of Virginia
hospital after being diagnosed by the inﬁrrnary. He
said the helicopter was very small and he was strapped
in. ‘‘I didn’t really realize how serious it was,” he said.

Duvall’s parents, who live in Baltimore, MD, ar-
rived at the hospital a few hours after his arrival, and
Duvall said he was not alone in the hospital for too
long. Duvall said his parents were at ﬁrst told more
than he was told about the seriousness of his condition.

The attention he received at the hospital was reas-
suring, he said. Immediately after he arrived, eight
people were with him in Intensive Care. Duvall later year.
found out the UVa. hospital only treats about one or
two cases of meningitis a year. He said he did not mind
any of the painful treatments first administered.

“l was in so much pain anyway, the medicinal

   
 
  
    
   
  
   
 
     
  
      
   
  
  
   
   

The Rin -tum Phi

a feeding tube down my nose.”
That hurt the most, he said.

member before his illness.

loss.”

By KATHLEEN Qumx
Phi Staff Writer

nitely.

Chapel.

    

Photo by Joe Famptom, The Ring-tum Phi
The Capital Campaign’s boost was touted above the Co-op.

Campaign grows

The hardest part now, said Sessoms,
will be raising the last $27 million by
1995.

That $127 million will serve long-
term puposes for the security of the
university’s future.

The three components of the Cam-
paign are the Academic Program, the
Building Program, and the Annual Fund
Program. The Academic Program rep‘-
resents 61 percent of the $127 million.

Goals of the Academic Program
include strengthening W&L’s teach-
ing faculty, reinforcing the academic
program, funding additional student
scholarships, endowing the university ’s
libraries, and supporting the computer
center.

Goals of the Building Program in-
clude renovations on athletic ﬁelds,
the science wing, the Powell Papers
addition to Lewis Hall, and the frater-
nity Renaissance Piogram.

regiment.

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Since 1990, Washington and Lee
has been giving extra credence to its
motto, non in cautus futuri.

Not unmindful of the future, W&L
launched its Capital Campaign in 1990,
one of “the most ambitious projects
ever undertaken by the university,”
according to Dick Sessoms, Director
of Major Gifts.

After a two-year self study, the uni-
versity decided to try to raise the $127
million by June 30, 1995. The Capital
Campaign was launched in 1990 and
made public since 1992.

At last count, W&L had raised just
over $100 million, from a previous $87
million.

The boost did not come from one
particular source, said Sessoms, but
rather from a number of donors.

Concert to
benefit  
AmFar

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

On Wednesday, March 16, at 7 p.m.
there will be an AIDS beneﬁt concert
in Keller Theatre at the Lenfest Center.

The three a capella singing groups,
Jubibee, General Admission and South-
ern Comfort will perform, in addition
to a solo performance by senior Lyrae
Van Clief.

Senior Meriwether Nichols, a mem-
ber of the AIDS Education Project and
of JubiLee, organized the event.

“I wanted to do something to help
and because I’m a singer, getting the a
capella groups together seemed like
the perfect idea,” said Nichols.

Donations are being requested and The General’s Headquarters, located in the University
will go to AmFar, the American Fund Center, is now serving breakfast from 8:30 a.m. to 1 1:00 a.m.
for AIDS relief. AmFar’s president, in addition to its normal lunch hours.

Mervyn Silverman, is a 1960 Wash- “People wandering through the building would always
ington and Lee graduate. come by for a cup of coffee. Sometimes we gave it to them

Nichols said she hopes the beneﬁt for free. Other times we had to turn them away. We eventu-
will become “an annual event” and ally decided to open for breakfast because there would be no

ﬂags.

them.

said Peniston.

regiments came.

 

By YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

“will get students involved with AIDS additional labor costs,” said Jerry Darrell, head of Food _

relief and research in a way they feel Services.

comfortable.” “The GHQ used to be open for dinner, but there was not
Patrick McDermott,president of the enough revenue coming in. We were not covering our

AIDS Education Project, said Nichols expenses. As a result, we closed the GHQ for dinner and

had a “fz;nQstic idea.” extend the Co-op’s hours for any students needing dinner,”

The changing of the eight original
Confederate ﬂags hanging in Lee
Chapel has been postponed indeﬁ-

The ﬂags have hung over the statue
of General Robert E. Lee since No-
vember, 1930, when the Virginia divi-
sion of the United Daughters of the
Confederacy placed them in Lee

“Some of them date to 1861,” said
Captain Robert C. Peniston, director of
Lee Chapel. “They’ve been through a
lot—shot and shelled, carried in battle,
captured by Union Armies,” he said.

“Every one of them was carried in.
battle by the regiments of the Army of
Northern Virginia —— that’s General
Lee’s army — a ﬁrst—class ﬁghting
outfit,” Peniston said.

Peniston added that Congress
awarded two Medals of Honor for the
capture of these ﬂags, one to George
Armstrong Custer of a West Virginia their

_ Festival Flags of Richmond has
made replacements for the original

“They have a very ﬁne reputa-
tion,” said Peniston. “They can match
the colorof the originals,but of course
they can’tmatch the materi al,” of the
originals, which were hand-stitched
from wool*and cotton, probably by
the wives of the soldiers who carried

“They were the labors of love,”

The UDC received the ﬂags on
loan from the Museum of the Confed-
eracy in Richmond. According to
Peniston, in 1906, the federal govern-
ment made captured Civil War ﬂags
available to the states from which the

The ﬂags in Lee Chapel went to
the Confederate Memorial Literary
Society, which is today the Museum
of the Confederac

on the loaned ﬂags.

“We saw that their condition ha
deteriorated,” said Reed. “In the cur-
rent way they are displayed, the flag
need to ‘be removed, stabilized, and
conserved. Afterthat, we’ll seewhethe
all the ﬂags come back to Washington
and Lee. We need to keep in mind

what’s best for the ﬂag.”

year. ”

tion.”

them erode.”

originally
Board of Trustees.

in Richmond.

Students enjoy lunch in the GHQ, which has recently begun serving breakfast.

GHQ serves breakfast

said Darrell. “This year being open only for lunch, rewn
is still short. Business is great from twelve to one, but the
it dies down. The incentives we were offering after one we
not increasing revenues by the needed 30 percent margin

he said.

‘‘I am presently working with Dean of Students Davi
Howison on a Gaines Hall Plan for next year where Gaine:
residents could eat dinner at the GHQ three times a
We are also thinking about having a special dea fo
sororities and promoting individual sorority nights,” adde

Darrell.

One student said she had no idea the GHQ was i‘

financial trouble.

“I used to go to the GHQ for dinner frequently last yea‘
and was shocked to learn they were losing money.”
“They should reopen for dinner, but I do not lik3 th

idea of an exclusive sorority night,” she said.

""1"!" Iﬁﬁt}

Lip Sync

5' ‘¥°'\43*~ 3 .5

      
 

FROM STAFF REPORTS

     

' prizes.
Photo courtesy of Publications Office

Lip Synch is a fun event that raises money for charity.

Washington and Lee University’s
eighth annual “Lip Sync” contest raised
a net total of $2,500 this year, most of
which was donated to Rockbridge Area
Relief Association, or RARA. Of the
total money raised, $1,700 was con-
tributed to RARA and the remaining
amount was given to the National
Multiple Sclerosis Society. ary

Twenty-ﬁve acts entered the con-
test this year. The top three groups won

Sigma Phi Epsilon took ﬁrst place
this year, regaining the top spot. Sig-

’80s, “Celebration.”

by 95 South.

Provanzana, ’95.

“I was so glad to see them,” he said.
The team marked its shoes with Duvall’s number
in support of him, and he said he was touched by their
concern. They visited a second time more subdued,
he said, “because they were coming home from a hard
I

Duvall was given a typically painful spinal tap, but
he said thing he remembers most was when “they put

After his condition stabilized, he received a visit
from the men’s basketball team, of which he viﬁis a

Duvall said he plans to play forthe team again next '

“l was skinny before, but I’m really skinny now,”
Duvall said. He has not gone out much, he said,
“because I get tired every night at around 11:”

He did have a few beers a few nights ago, he
admitted, and “my tolerance has probably gone dime.”

Flags to stay

Plans to conserve delayed

The flags went from there to the
UDC, who gave them to Lee Chapel.
According to Robin Reed, execu-
tive director of the Museum of the
Confederacy, the question of changing
the ﬂags stems from a periodic check
I

“The ﬁrst thing we need to do is to
stabilize the ﬂags,” said Reed. “That
means they’ll have to stay in a state of
rest — lying down ﬂat — for about .

“During that time, we’ll briug i
professional conservators who will he] s
us evaluate the ﬂags’ conditions an
suggest a program for their preserva

“As far as their coming back t
Washington and Lee,that’s mostly i
[W&L’s] hands. We’lb b
meeting with them over the next yea
to discuss the future of the ﬂags.”

The trouble with leaving the ﬂag
where they have been these past 6
years is that they are decaying. ‘

“Of course, the way they’re dis
played now is most appealing,”.sai
Peniston, “but it’s irresponsible to le

Stress to the ﬂags includes hang
ing on the poles under their ow
weight, the ﬂuorescent lights shining
on them, and temperature and humid
ity changes, said Peniston.

Before 1963, Lee Chapel had n
air conditioning, said Peniston.

The removal of the ﬂags wa
delayed by the W&
The Trustee
intervened when they read in aloca
paper that the ﬂags would be re

Trustees have asked that t e re
moval be delayed until the owner
ship of the ﬂags can be fu

rocks in money for RARA    

Ep pledges performed thier renditioi
of Koo] and the Gang’s hit of the garl_

The Minority Students Associatio
walked away with second prize fo
their lip synch of “Whoot, there it is!’

Chi Omega sorority came up wit
third place for their highly chqeo
graphed lip synch of “If” by Janet Jack
son. The contest was held in late Janu

Members of the committee are Di
rector of Food Service Jerry Darrel
Kit Dodds, ’95, Lawson Brice, ’95
John Turner, ’95, and Chair Bet

ved

lly trace o‘

eek

arch 11 199

 

 
 
  
   
 
    
   
    
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
    
  
 
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
     
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
     
     
    

     
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
      
  
  
      
   
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
    
  
    
  
        
  

V.

     
       

   

   
     
      
     
         
     
       
   
     

    

The Ring-tum Phi. March 11. 1994

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Two Washington and Lee Uni-
versity professors have received
Outstanding Faculty Awards from
the State Council of Higher Educa-

-W&L profs
Qreceive honor

She is also the founder and direc-
tor of Sonoklect, an annual festival
of new music at W&L.

Brouwer holds a Doctor of Mu-
sic from Indiana University, Master
of Music from Michigan State, and

Faculty Awards program is one way
in which Virginia recognizes excel-
lent teaching, research, and public

0 service being performed by faculty

in Virginia colleges and universi-
ties. In addition to the prestige of the
award, each recipient receives a
prize of $5,000 and a crystal sculp-
ture specially commissioned for the
program.

Brouwer, who joined the W&L
faculty in 1988, teaches music com-
pdsition, theory, 20th century mu-
sic, and violin. Her award-winning
compositions have been recorded
by Centaur and Crystal Records and
have been performed by numerous
music ensembles and orchestras,
including the Roanoke Symphony
Orchestra. Brouwer also composed
the music to the Washington and
Lee Hymn in 1990.

From 1970 to 1984, Brouwer
was associated with the Dallas Sym-
phony and the Fort Worth Opera
Orchestra. She was also working on
her doctorate during this period.

She also served as concertmistressv
of the University-Rockbridge Sym-. .

phony Orchestra.

 

Q tion. Marg- a Bachelor of
aret L. Music from
Brouwer, Oberlin Con-
associate :1‘>1’V_3t0TY Of
professorof “SIC-
music, and M_9Th€ﬂl_3
Andrew W. received his

. McThenia, Bachelor of

‘ Jr., profes— 15-Cieﬂge and
sor of law, aw egrecs
are among from W&L.
11 faculty After private
m e m b e r s , practiceﬁof law
s e l e ct e d in Washington,
from 70 D.C., from

0 nominees, 1963 to 1967,
who were he j0lIl€d the
honoredata faculty at the
special W&L school
awards cer- of law in 1967
emony in and has beena
Richmond professor of

‘ onTuesday, lawsince1973.
March 8. In addition to

The Out- Brouwer “aching in the
s t a n d i n g areas of legis-

lation, McThenia directs the Mental
Disabilities Clinic, a legal practice
clinical program in which students
provide civil representation to pa-
tients in a state psychiatric hospital.

McThenia has also taught a semi-
nar on black lung legislation, one of
several courses developed to expose
future attorneys and legislators to
people who have been traditionally
left out of America’s legal system.
In the areas of scholarship, he has
written numerous articles 0n civil
disobedience and legal narratives
and, most recently, a collection of
essays on William Stringfellow, a
white American attorney and writer
who practiced law in East Harlem
and inﬂuenced a generation of
Americans working for social
change.

Other W&L teachers who have
previously received Outstanding
Faculty Awards include Philip Cline,
professor of administration and eco-
nomics; Leonard Jarrard, professor
of psychology; Brian Murchison,
professor of law; Sidney Coulling,

professor of.English; and Edgar W.

Spencer, professor of geology.

0 I994 Eacbmr luumnt: am?/1 nnuity A.r.i-ocialion/Ca/leg: Retirement E4u£liz.r Fund.

 

Chavis to speak at W&L

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Dr. Benjamin Chavis, J r., executive
director and chief executive officer of
the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People
(NAACP), will speak at Washington
and Lee University on Wednesday,
March 16, at 7:30 p.m. in the
university’s Lee Chapel.

The title of Chavis’ speech is “An
Evaluation of the Clinton Administra-
tion on Civil Rights and Urban Policy.”
The speech, which is open to the pub-
lic, is sponsored by Contact, the Mi-
nority Students Association, the Black
Law Students Association, the W&L
chapter of the ACLU and the depart-

ment of politics.

An ordained minister of the United
Church of Christ,
Chavis received his
B.A. from the Uni-
versity of North
Carolina and his
M.Div. from Duke
University. He has
completed course
requirements for a
Ph.D. in systematic
theology at Union
Theological Semi-
nary in New York
City. The 45-year-
old Chavis was
elected head of the
NAACP in April,

 

1993, becoming the youngest execu-
tive director ever of the 85-year-old

organization. Prior to
his appointment, Chavis
was the executive direc-
torand CEOofthe Com-
mission for Racial Jus-
tice of the 1.7 million-
member United Church
of Christ.

Chavis developed his
leadership skills when,
in the 1960s, as a student
and labor activist, he
worked with the
NAACP, the Congress
on Racial Equality
(CORE), the Southern
Christian Leadership

Conference (SCLC), and the Ameri-
can Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees (AFSCME) on
issues ranging from institutionalized
racism to labor issues.

As a member of the “Wilmington
Ten,” Chavis was jailed for over four
years in North Carolina when he was
convicted in a case growing out of a
civil rights demonstration on the issue
of school desegregation. In I980, the
U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals
overturned the conviction and he was
freed.

In the succeeding years, Chavis es-
tablished a reputation as a civil and
human rights leader. He is the author
of two books and a weekly syndicated
news column, “Civil Rights Journal.”

ey. . .Wait for !

   

Photo by David Wiiiningtonjspecial to The Ring-mm Phi

A lone dancer on the floor at the Fancy Dress Ball quickly slides across the floor in  attempt to catch the hired
belly dancers. Once again, the B0 Thorpe Orchestra entertained, t‘l1e:Fan g T _ g V
ballroom dancing music for thoseattending “A4M.agical Caritélt’Ride.”’lTli’éfW'aHﬁé¥  _a'1s'd‘platyed"at"tl’1e"event.

 Dresscroivvd, §e’rving aivariiieity of 9

ox/wx/*0./~ A/vs; .7 _

 
 

PRINCIPIQICS of S()L'Nl) R l£’l‘lR If _\I li.\"‘

  

  

N\’l£S'l'ING~

 
 

UNFORTUNATELX THIS IS WHERE
  PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. They
don't take advantage oftax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAS.
SRAs not only ease your current tax-
bite, they offer a remarkably easy way
to build retirement income—especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security benefits may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before—tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on
your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the

system.

Beneﬁt nmvﬁarm tax deferral. Call our SRA botline 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

C R EF urliﬂmlu are c}Lr1/'1'/vuia) by TI/I/I-CREF Intfiviclual and Inilitultiznal StI‘Vflt.f. For mart romp/cl: infarlnalivn, fIll‘[llI)fIlj t/Iar_ut.r and c.r,»rri.i'r.r,
V ml! I 800-X42-2753, c.r1. 8016 for a pI'0.fpttIlU‘. Rm) Ibr pra.r;m'!u.r artfully bcfonr you mm! or rend money.

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality of life.

What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choices—from the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversiﬁed investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity—all backed
by the nation's number one retirement

Why write off the chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF
SRAS can help you enjoy many
happy returns.

     
  
   
 
    
  
   
  
     
        

  

 

imum
a uni

llllll
llllll
lllll!

courses covering 60 (liflcrcnl areas of study.

Enioy the Resources of the Nation's Capital

Meet the Movers and the Shakers

organizations are also available.

My Future Is in Washington This Summer!

Please rush me the following information:

D 1994 Siinmier Sessions Bulletin with course
descriptions, special programs, Study Abroad

Cl GW’s Year-round Undergracliiate Programs
D GW's Year—round Cradiiate l’rograins

El 1994 Summer Sessions Study Ahroacl Prograins
in

Located just four l)loi'ks from the White House and .
adjacent to the World Bank, GW’s campus is within 0
walking distance of the US. State Department, the -
Smithsonian, and many other prestigious institutions.

You'll not only learn from The George Washington
Universily’s distinguished faculty, but will also meet
government and corporate leaders, cabinet members,
heads of government agencies, Capitol Hill staffers,

often seminar leaders, guest lecturers, andpart-time
faculty. Opportunities for internships in prominent D.C.

programs, schedules. and registration information.

A A  ge.,1lltisliiiigton.Uiiiversity’s 1994 Sun  
Advance Your Career. Advance to Washington This Summer.

pend this summer learning in the world’s most
stimulating city. The 1994 Summer Sessions at The
George Washington University offer over 500

Choose lrom ii Variety of Options

at The George Washington University

Two main 6-week sessions: May 11 - June 22 and
June 27 - August 8. Plus sessions ranging from one-
week field sessions to I3-week seminars.

For More Information,
Call 202-994-6360

association directors, and corporate executives, who are

or mail or fax the
coupon below.

ea ........................................................................................ __

Maximize Your Career Potential with Special
Summer Programs

° Prevention of Terrorism 0
0 Historical Archaeology 0
° History in the Media

0 Sport & Event Management
Tropical Marine Biology °
Publication Institute
International Education: '
Indonesia and Malaysia

 
 

me  

CW Madrid Centre

Public Relations

' Total Quality Management
in Higher Education
Information Systems

' Legal Assistant

Latin America: Cultural
and Business Environment
0 And Many More.’

The

S r E H
31
niveigify

WASHINGTON DC

Name D.O.B
Current Address

City State Zip
Phone ( )

Return completed form to:

The George Washington llniversity. 1994 Summer Sessions
2121 Eye Street. NW, Washington, DC 20052

FAX (202)994-9l 

The George Washington University is an equal opportunity inslitulinn.

CN-SS-Z/‘)1

 

 

    

PAGE 4

Big Four
Winners
emerge

DBIG FOUR, from page 1

“Hopefully this spring... I’d like to
orient [next year’s representatives] to
the budget process.”

Cross said he will be fair with re-
gard to allocating money to clubs next
year.

“I’m not going in there with a pre-
disposed notion of cutting SBA or cut-
ting the Pub Board,” he said.

William Toles, who has EC experi-
ence stemming from his service as an
honor advocate, won the race for EC
Secretary with 522 votes. Justin King,
who ran against Toles, received 403
votes.

Whitney Bludworth ran unopposed
for Chairman of the Student Conduct
Committee, winning the race with 807
votes.

Webb said during his term as EC
President, which will start this spring
when current EC President Robert
Tompkins graduates from law school,
he will concentrate on fairness in the
budget process.

“My main goal with the budget is to
do whatever is necessary to insure there
is the most equitable distribution of
funds possible,” he said.

Webb said he has an interest in
helping the Student Affairs Committee
see things from the standpoint of the
campus Greek organizations.

“I’m interested in playing a role in
the SAC decisions and discussions with
special regard to the fraternities and
their role on campus.”

English
Professor
to lecture

FROM STAFF Raroms

“Troy Goes West: Dido’s Fabrica-
tions, Aeneas’s Drapes” will be the
topic of a lecture at Washington and
Lee University by Christopher C.
Baswell at 4 p.m. Thursday, March 17,
in the University Library’s Northen
Auditorium. The lecture is open to the
public.

Baswell, who is associate professor
of English at Barnard College, is "a
fellow at the National Humanities Cen-
ter for the 1993-94 year. He is the
author of many scholarly articles on
English, French and Latin literature. In
September, his book, Virgil in Medi-
eval England: Figuring the “Aenid”
from the Twelfth Century to Chaucer,
will be published by the Cambridge
University Press.

A graduate of Oberlin College,
Baswell received his B.A. with High-
est Honors in English in 1975, and his
Ph.D. in English from Yale University
in 1983. He joined the faculty at
Barnard in 1984.

photo by Patrick Hinely
Frankie Jones ’94 and Colleen Thompson '96 participate in a children's workshop at
Chavis House. The event was part of events scheduled for Black History Month.

    

The Hing-tum Phi, March 11, 1994

FD goes over.
budget in ’94

i>FD, from page 1

and I appreciate the students’
coorperation,” said Police Chief Bruce
Beard.

The fraternity functions that accom-
pany FD gave the local police nothing
of note to report either.

“When their permit expired, we
went and gave warnings and they all
complied,” Beard said. He said one
subpoena was issued to Chris Santora
of Sigma Chi for a noise violation on
Saturday night.

Opinions on the event varied from
person to person.

“It wasn’t quite as elegant as I
thought it would be,” said freshman
Amy Bookout.

Of the week, Bookout said, “It was
a blast. Actually, I think I enjoyed
Saturday afternoon and evening the
best because they were relaxing.”

JuniorJuliaPodlassaidofthisyear’s
FD decorating effort, “Compared to
the other two FDs I’ve been to, the

Podlas did have a suggestion con-.
cerning the Thursday night bands.

“It just seems like that the last few
years the concert has been country
music. It would be nice to have some-
thing different,” she said.

Both Bookout and Podlas mentione
parts of the ball as being especially
memorable.

“I thought the fireworks were great
because they were the biggest differ-
ence between my prom and this,”
Bookout said.

Podlas thought something else wa.
more memorable than the fireworks. 1

“I thought the belly dancers were a
nice touch,” she said.

Even before the weekend was over,
the decorations had been stealthily re-
moved from the gyms.

According to Framptom, “By one
o’clock Saturday, they were mopping
the floor and everything was gone.”

By Sunday afternoon, even the die-
hard partiers had ﬁnished with the week
and the 87th Washington and Lee Fancy

decorations were great.”

Dress Ball was a thing of the past.

Phi Beta Kappa initiates 49 students

IIVPBK, from page 1

time in the pursuit of education.

He said Adams was ill-prepared to compre-
hend the new forces in his time like technology.
He related this ill—preparedness to the new ini-
tiates and other students. He said Adams repre-
sented a man who spent half of his life making a
success in the world and the last half trying to
understand it.

“Each man with self respect enough has to
account to himself, for himself, somehow,” he
said, reading a passage from the book.

He said in aworld ofmutliplicity and complex-
ity, each an every student has the obligation not to
only learn about the world but also to understand
it.

“The purpose of education is to give an ac-

WBRC submits revisions

count of yourself, for yourself, somehow,” said
McCardell to the new initiates.

He encouraged the students and the university
to use knowledge and to grow. He said the stu-
dents should draw courage and confidence from
W&L graduates who have succeeded and have
made a contribution to society. He said the world
will require leaders, and he hopes the students will
constitute the “vis nova,” or new force in society.

McCardell holds a Ph.D. in history from
Harvard University. He joined the faculty at
Middlebury in 1976 and was named president of
the college in 1992. He still teaches history at the
school.

The following seniors were initiated: Heather
Aussiker of Accokeek, Md.; Angie Carrington of
Charlottesville; Jennifer Coleman of Auburn,
N.Y.; Sharon Crabbe of Birmingham, Ala.; Ryan

Dennard of beague City,Texas; Miriam Hagensen
of Vancouver, Wash.; Robert Higginbotham of
Memphis, Tenn.; Matthew Jackson of Hanover,
Pa.; Richard Jenkins of Kansas City, Mo.; Shan-
non Jones of East Hampton, N.Y.; Christian
Keller of Carlisle, Pa.; James Kull of Dallas,
Texas; Erin Nelson of Massillion, Ohio; Justin
Peterson of Novato, Ca.; Jennifer Ray of Atlanta,
Ga.; Avery Rembowski of Hilton Head Island,
SC.; Tommy Ritter of Mountain Brook, Ala.;
Jennifer Roscoe of Glenwood, Md.; Herman
Satin of Moscow, Russia; John Schindler of
Phoenixville, Pa.; Jennifer Shaker of Macon,
Ga.; Valerie Shannon of Houston, Texas; Eliza-
beth Storey of Columbia, Md.; John Surface of
Jacksonville, Fla.; Lee Anthony of Fort Totten,
N.Y.; Sarah Wyatt of Doraville, Ga.; Sheri Wynn
of Lynchburg; Jon Yeargan of Beckley, W.Va.;

and Rachel Zloczover of Boynton Beach, Fla.
The following juniors were initiated: Kelly
Brotzman of Hamilton, Mich.; Joshua Cook of
Mars, Pa.; Matthew Ehret of Savannah, Ga.Q
Robert Eison of Bowling Green, Ky.; Assia
Georgieva of Sofia, Bulgaria; Leslie Hallet of
Lodi, N.Y.; James Johnston of Littleton, Co.;
William Shepherd of Atlanta, Ga.; Eric Shirley of
Olney, Md.; Carter Tharpe of Macon, Ga.; James
Turner of Roanoke; and Jennifer Yanulavich of
Roswell, Ga. 9
Also, the following 1993 graduates were ini-

tiated: Christine Gorman of Chapel Hill, N.C.;
Anne Redford of Richmond; Leslie Cummings
of Bettendorf. Iowa; Heather Olsen of Peekskill,
N.Y.; Jon Dixon of Plano, Texas; Mark Goglia of
Clarksville, Md.; Heather Cook of Fair Lawn,
N.J.; and James Wilson of Charleston, S.C. 5

HDWBRC, from page 1

cate defending the accused would be
able to contact the EC witnesses in-
volved in the trial, if the revisions are
passed. However, the witnesses are
under no obligation to answer ques-
tions prior to the hearing.

The number of guilty votes needed
to convict an accused student may also
be changed from eight to nine, should
the revisions pass.

Hutton said the revisions made to
the White Book will “make it more fair
to the accused student.”

The revisions will be discussed by
the EC over the course of the next few
days. The EC’s Monday discussion
will be partly open to the public. After
discussing the revisions that night, the
EC will go into executive session with

the WBRC.

Hutton said the EC may meet with
the WBRC on Tuesday and Wednes-
day night, if the meetings are needed to
discuss the revisions. These meetings
will also be closed.

Hutton said the committee mem-
bers worked “in harmony” to come up
with the revisions.

‘‘I thought it was a great honor to be
appointed to it (the WBRC)... We did
work really well together,” said Hutton.
“We mutually worked to improve the
White Book.”

The EC also heard from Tim Scott
of the Minority Students Association,
who updated the committee on the
MSA’s financial position in the wake
of the Patricia Russell-McCloud speech
for Black History Month. Scott said

nonrefundable deposits when members
of the MSA could not attend a leader-
ship conference due to inclement
weather.
back, Scott said MSA is in good finan-
cial shape.

“This year’s been going very well,”
he said. “It looks like we’ll be on target
for the rest of the year.”

Scott said the MSA will return
$1,450 to the EC for an emergency
loan taken out to entice McCloud to
speak at Washington and Lee. The EC
gave the MSA the loan when it ran into
a financial problem that left it without
money to secure a contract with
McCloud for the speech. Once the
contract was secured, the MSA was
obligated to seek out other sources of
financial assistance in order to pay the

    

the MSA lost “almost $1,000” in

EC back.

 

         
  

    
   
  
 
     
   
    
      
   
   
    
    

month larger unit.

(703) 984-9402

Apartments for Rent _
Catering to W&L students. 2 Two
bedroom apartments for rent in
downtown Lexington, just a very
short walk from the W&L campus.
$300 per month one unit; $375 per

—Great Location
—Landlord pays for water,
including hot water
If interested, please call property
manager, Mrs. Brown, daytime
463-3013; at night or weekends,

 

ﬂit ‘Union pi  



      
     
  
       

Run   

and Restaurant

Chef Stewart prepares dai
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,

Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

5‘ Six Room Inn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dining" 
 Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

  
     

ly culinary delights

  

       
     
    
      
 
        
       
      
   
  

adv «

  

.‘,3’;é..‘

  

   



  
  

‘:7 ~'
ti‘.

   
 

  
      
 

    

      

r ‘J? -I


  
    
   
  
 

L
 I

    

i -
/"Ya

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only

Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00

Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two

(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

 

Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. 2000
sq. ft. 4 bedrooms — can hold up to 6 people.
Fireplace, wood stove, refrigerator, ceiling fans,
and huge bar. Secluded location about 3 miles

from town. Rent $200/person (regardless of ‘
number of people). Beautiful View. Large yard -
with ball field. Call Nate or Lewis for more

 

  
   

Tuesday, March 15

U
Despite this financial set-
Cl
_i _. I ' .
Photo by David ilmington, special to The Ring—tum Phi
Students gather near the fountains at Fancy Dress.

.; -.':~-,.°.q,-,':.-,.'.¢.-_- 

' .. -'\'4‘*t:'-x‘-'3"

        
   

 info, 463-6337 Home (804) 886-0614
’ P   ,   —
H available '

  

9,‘):-2_‘I-'5~re,‘i:_'.'-'}'w.,e.*:-';-",‘2:'2,‘.'-‘

    
  

 
 
  

. ‘ .-it _s -
‘fie:-.‘2<':'=

 

Cwiemaz one

 

— Now Showing —
sister Act 2
Daily 7:00 & 9:30 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 12:15, 2:25, 4:40,
7:00 & 9:30 p.m. Rated PG

House Pa 3
Daily 9:40 p.m. ated R
Sat. & Sun. 12:10, 2:05 & 9:40 p.m.

Mrs. Doubtflro
Daily 6:45 p.m. Rated PG- 13
Sat. & Sun. 4:10 & 6:45 p.m.

261 -7292
{£275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista)

  
   

Gift Certiﬁcates Now Available

Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) :’:."'

5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
Call for reservations: 703-463-9715

".u-g":,‘»--'.yi’_-‘.-
;-:.«~.;-'. *‘~;:.-:'

 
     
  
   

    

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa@ and MasterCard@
credit cards...“ln your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

desenre and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
EMERGENCY CASH—TlCKETS-—RESTAURANIS—
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

‘fﬁicur OWL MUSIC co.

    
     
  

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050

0pen ll a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday,
Saturday 11 a.m. — 5 p.m.

   

  

 

 
 

' Z—CARD. BOX 16516, ATLANTA. GA 3032 '
I
I Q '
' . lwantVlSA0/MASTERCARDG Credit 3
I Cardsappmved immediately. 100% GUARANTEED! :
' .
Q
VISAG and MasterCard® the credit cards you I '
I NAME '
STORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNMEN'I‘— . I
s—cARRENnus— ' Ann) '
H0.TELS—MO’I‘ELS—CA . CITY STATE __ ZIP :
: STUDENT? Z_e_§__I1<_>_ s.s.# . o
No turn downs! _ '
No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE '
No security deposit! ' NOTE MasterCard Isa registered t:adermrkd'Mmter(hrdlntema!loml.Inc.
I Visa is a registered tradennrk or VISA USA. Inc. and VISA inmmuonai I
SEND THE CW0" T°°'“,' I '
YWRWWHCMMAMHMUM.L_______________________J

 

 

The Rinitum Phi, Marchl 1, 1994

‘rh

  ‘V1/éﬂlife

9 By MICHAEL Hewuzrr
Phi Staff Writer

Just one week after Fancy Dress, Washing-
ton and Lee is having another party and every-
one is invited.

C On Friday, March 11, there will be a party in
the Boiler Room from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. to
improve race relations on campus. The party is
sponsored by the following groups, who have
raised $800 for the event: the Minority Student
Association, Panhellenic, Interfratemity Coun-
cil, Women’s Forum, the International Club,
the Freshmen Leadership Council and the Dean
of Students Office.

University Psychologist Dr. James Worth
said the idea for a party stemmed from a Peer
Counselor training session on diversity with
Dean of International and Minority Affairs
Anece McCloud.

\ “I asked if it was appropriate for the peer
counselors to consider ways to make a positive
difference in diversity,” he said.

Worth said the idea for the party came from
the students after some brainstorming. He said
he simply provided guidance for the group.

Head Peer Counselor Julia Podlas said they
dfcided to promote something social.

“We thought it would be impossible to make
a change if people don’t know each other,” said
Podlas.

Podlas said no alcohol will be served at the
party, but students are asked to bring their own
drinks.

Minority Student Association Vice-Presi-
tﬁnt Kyna Bryant said the music will be pro-
vided by Andrian Bigges, who is also known as

rowing a prty everyone can ge al

  

oto y Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

The Boiler Room is the site of an open party tonight which sponsors say will help improve race relations

DJ Def Jam. (The posters which say DJ Andre
are wrong.)

She said minority groups from other schools
will be invited, including students from the
Virginia Military Institute.

Worth said he hopes this party will at least
begin to break down racial barriers.

“I would like two things to come out of this
party: an afﬁrrnation or celebration of the di-

versity of our student body and a sense that on
an individual level we can make a difference in
terms of the climate where there are differ-
ences,” he said.

Podlas said this party will not, however,
solve all the problems of race relations she sees
on campus.

She said the party will be a step towards
students getting to know each other.

“I don’t think the school is going to change
after this, but we wanted to at least do some-
thing to make people think about what is needed
to make our campus the best it could be,” she
said.

The party will help stop people from segre-
gating themselves, Podlas said.

“I think it’stime that something really has to
be done to promote diversity and to stop people

 

PAGE 5 "

ong better

from going off into their separate groups,”
she said.

Podlas said she hopes the party will be an
annual event. She said student interest will be
needed to make the party possible in the future.

Bryant said she believes for the party to
become annual, minority participation is a must.
She said she hopes the party helps make minor-

ity students more comfortable attending uni- '

versity functions.

Peer Counselor Maurice Cole said any money ' I

left overwill be used as a fund for the next party.
President of the Interfratemity Council Cunis

Smith said this party will provide other oppor- - ‘

tunities for people besides fraternity parties.

s

Minority Student Association President

Ayanna Brady agrees.

“It is an opportunity for people to get to- *

gether,” she said.
Panhellenic president Elise Brown aid the

idea of getting people together also prompted 1 ‘

the organization to support the party.
She said the party would be a great way to

increase interaction between Greek woman and ~ 1

other organizations.

‘‘It just sounds like a fun, neat idea,” she -’

said.

to promote diversity.

“The Peer Counselors can’t do this all by
themselves, but they can stand up for some-
thing and provide an example,” he said.

“If other people see that they can contribute,

Worth said this party will lead other groups A‘

then there can be some exciting things happen- ‘

ing here.”

Brady‘ said promoting diversity can be a L’

benefit to Washington and Lee University.
‘‘It only helps make W&L stronger if we are
all aware of each other.”

Essential compact discs for the month of March

' By BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

R.E.M. has become a music classic as their music deﬁnes
the genre of college rock. If, like many people, your collec-
tion of R.E.M. CD’s consists of Automatic for the People,
Git of Time, Green, and perhapsDocument, you really need
to branch out into some of R.E.M.’s older music. Their “best
of” CD, ironically called Eponymous, is a good way to get
used to the different sound of early R.E.M. In the early years,
the music was more guitar driven. They loudly tear through
most of their songs. Michael Stipe’s lyrics are famous for
being hard to make out. Their first single, “Radio Free
Fgirope” is a prime example of this sound. This is a song that
begs to be played as loudly as your speakers can handle it.
The version of “Radio Free Europe” featured on E ponymous
has slightly different vocals than the version released on
R.E.M.’s ﬁrst full CD, Murmur. In the liner notes, Peter
Buck comments that their producer Jefferson Holt thinks,
“this one crushes the other like a grape” and it does. R.E.M.

A 0 makes some noise with the ever-popular “It’s the End
of the World as We Know It (and I Feel Fine),” “Can’t Get
There From Here,” and the bitter “The One I Love.” “The
One I Love” is deserving of a spot on Eponymous because
it marks an unusual change in R.E.M.’s style. In spite of the
fact that Michael Stipe’s vocals are more distinguishable
than usual, many people have the mistaken impression that
we One I Love” is a touching love song. This could not

‘ further from the truth. Stipe sings: This one goes out to the
one I love./ This one goes out to the one I left behind.../ A
simple prop to occupy my time/ This one goes out to the one
I love./

Eponymous. also features some wonderful ballads. “Gar-
dening at Night” has a beautiful melody that will make you
smile. “Fall On Me,” Michael Stipe’s favorite song, is like
n9thing you have heard before. Images of acid rain, weighty
decisions, and Chicken Little blend amazingly well in this
classic song fromLife ’s Rich Pageant. More irony drenched
lyrics are featured in “(Don’t Go Back To) Rockville.” The
song is about what it’s like to leave a small town and your
life there. Stipe describes leaving an old flame behind: It’s
not as though I really need you/ If you were here I ’d only
lave you./ Everybody else in town only wants to bring you
down/ And that’s not how it ought to be. / I know it might
sound strange but I believe you ’ll be coming back before

 

L For the W&L Record

In The Columns on March 3, 1944, an

too long. ‘

Eponymous is a truly worthwhile
investment. R.E.M. fanatics will enjoy
the convenience of all of these great
songs grouped together along with the
different vocals in “Radio Free Eu-
rope” and the amazing horn mix in
“Finest Worksong.” People just getting
to know R.E.M. will ﬁnd a ﬁne sample
of some of this phenomenal band’s best
music. They will then feel right at home
with all of R.E.M.’s older, more distin-
guished music.

If you buy the soundtrack to Until
the End of the World you will save
yourself the time and effort of making
a really good mix tape. This CD has ‘a
terriﬁc array of great alternative music.
The movie is director Wim Wenders’s
dream of life in 1999. The music backs
up his visions of the future. There are a
few soft, slow, pretty songs. J ulee
Cruise’s ethereal voice is amazing in
“Summer Kisses, Winter Tears.” Jane
Siberry and k.d. lang will move you
with “Calling All Angels.” The
instrumentals performed by Grame
Revell with cello solos by David Dar-
ling serve as perfect interludes between
songs. When you tire of hearing pretty
songs, Until the End of the World features some very
danceable tracks. Talking Heads perform “Sax and Violins”
with their usual humor and enthusiasm. Neneh Cherry slams
out a great dance song with “Move With Me.” Lou Reed’s
song “What’s Good” is so clever that you will find yourself
singing it for days. Reed sings: Life ’s like Minnesota/ Life ’s
like space without room/ Life ’s like bacon and ice cream/
That’s what life’s like without you.

Until the End of the World rounds up an all star cast of
alternative artists, from U2 to Depeche Mode to R.E.M. to
Elvis Costello. Wenders’s dark predictions of the world to
come give this album, even on the lighter tracks, a sense of
foreboding. “Humans From Earth” by T—Bone Burnett
describes the takeover of another planet by none other than
earthlings.

Here’s a little thing we call TV./ Do you have electric-
ity?/ We’re humans from earth.../ You have nothing at all to
fear./ We think we’re gonna like it here.

Perhaps the song that best exemplifies Until the End of

the World is “(l’ll Love You) Till The End of The World” '

by Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds. This song mixes the
imagery of a beautiful love affair with apocalypse. Nick
Cave darkly sings: And, if you can believe this/ Me, actually
praying/ Not to God up above,/ But to you.

Until the End ofthe World is a great investment. All of the
songs are great and are arranged perfectly to take you from
one to the next. This CD will introduce you to musicians that
you will regret not having listened to before.

The final essential for March is Negotiations and Love
Songs 1971-1986 by Paul Simon. This is the perfect back-
ground music to a romantic drive in the country or a pensive
evening at home. The CD takes you through every aspect of
Simon’s music, from early gospel inspired bop like “Loves
Me Like a Rock” to the world beat of “Diamonds on the
Soles of Her Shoes.” Some of the songs are depressing
beyond belief. In “Something So Right,” Simon laments:
When something goes wrong/ I ’m the first to admit it./ The
ﬁrst to admit it/ And the last one to know./ When something

§i\$a‘li""t;§.9§i
¢;"§?is'yr44r

ggg,§§§.a‘§A.»§_tt
.a¢«tv'a9¢t¥t1=4'*

3,3,5;-«,9at>stz;si
§a;.rt»;‘*’.,‘§ti*x'
gct4t:'t't§;"t.-‘t.:»‘,'°§
§g¢.:,¢¢=t*%.
§¥.t»*¥€tt4’y3§~,%iv
‘§.«.§e'*'§‘5‘§f“"§-i~@:%""
égte-V9av‘.‘§~\.9*
iii-ﬁigjlslitttti
-3$éJ:ktﬁ‘K§%""-

  
%,§‘§%%‘r;'?

goes right/ It’s like it eludes me./ It’s apt to conﬁtse me/ It’s
such an unusual sight.

Once that song brings you down, you will ﬁnd yourself
listening to “Still Crazy After All These Years” and fighting
off urges to invite your old love to slow dance with you.
Thankfully, Negotiations and Love Songs features some
love songs that are much happier so you won’t find yourself
“slip sliding” into despair. “50 Ways to Leave Your Lover”
will remind you exactly why that old love should not be slow
dancing with you. Paul Simon is equally adept at songs that
will make you happy. “Me and Julio Down By the
Schoolyard” is great for carefree moods, and nothing could
possibly top “You Can Call Me Al.” The horns and percus-
sion of this song are the perfect way to end Negotiations and
Love Songs. Paul Simon is easily one of the most talented
artists of our time. You will not regret buying this CD.

.i1tt;.;§£t.‘

 

Civil rights joiiinalist will  
speak on campus

From Staff Reports

Harry Ashmore, known for hisjournalism . :lati.» , to the
civil rights movement, will speak at Washington and Lee
this coming Monday, March 14.

Ashmore is a Pulitzer Prize winner and former editor of
The Arkansas Gazette and the Encyclopedia Britannica.

He will speak in Reid Hall at 8 p.m. on “The Brown
Decision: 40 Years After.” At 3:15 pm. on Tuesday, March
15, Ashmore will speak informally on journalism and the
civil rights movement, also in Reid Hall. Both events are
open to the public.

Ashmore, who is also a former director of the Center for
the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara,
Calif., has been an active proponent of the civil rights
throughout his public and journalistic career. He won a
Pulitzer Prize in 1958 for his editorials opposing Orval
Faubus, the Arkansas governor who tried to block the racial
integration of the Little Rock schools.

Ashmore, who has written a number of books on Ameri-
can race relations, will publish a personal memoir entitled
Civil Rights and Wrongs on May 17, the 40th anniversary of
the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education
of Topeka, the original school desegregation decision.
Ashmore was among the first Southern journalists to ad-
dress the subject of school desegregation in his book, The
Negro and the Schools, published on the eve of the Brown
decision in May 1 954. His report was based on a foundation-
sponsored study of the prospective impact of the decision on
southern public school systems.

Following a distinguished journalistic career as editor f
the Arkansas Gazette, and before that the Charlotte News in
North Carolina, Ashmore became afﬁliated with the Center
for the Study of Democratic Institutions and other projects
launched by Robert Hutchins, fonner president of the Uni-
versity of Chicago and educational gadﬂy.

« Short Peoples’ party rocks Boiler Room

81-23 and goalie Phil Aiken had 13 saves.

open invitation to attend a dance was re-
ceived by the entire Washington and Lee
student body from the student social chair-
man at Sweet Briar College. The invitation
was left open to both freshmen and upper-
b classmen with hopes of attracting 40 to 50
young men. But the invitation met with
transportation trouble. The trip involved a
bus ride between Lexington and Amherst,
followed by anotherfrom Amherst and Sweet
Briar College. The departure times of the
two buses were staggered in such a way, that
b they were conﬂicting.

In the March 7, 1969, issue of The Ring-
tum Phi, an addition to Doremus gymnasium
was announced as being planned. President
Robert E. R. Huntley revealed the plans and
deemed them, “second to none in the way in

which [the plans] serve the needs of our stu-

Fdents, whether at an intercollegiate, intramural,
or physical education level.” The ﬁve story
addition would include a basketball court, a
swimming pool, training and locker rooms,
and faculty offices. A separate 1 ﬁeld house was
also proposed for physical education purposes
and for indoor practices of intercollegiate teams.
Theincreasingpresenceofwomenonthe Wash-
ington and Lee campus through upcoming ex-
change programs contributed to the construc-
tion plans.

The Phi published on March 8, 1984, re-
ported how the men’s lacrosse team pummeled
the Hokies of Virginia Tech 23-0 at Wilson
Field. The shut out was the team’s ﬁrst since
1954 and its most lopsided victory in school
history. The Hokies were outshot in the game

The next two matches for the Generals were
challenges. They faced Navy at Wilson Field
and Maryland away. Even though the team
trounced Virginia Tech, coach Dennis Daly
said the team would have to sharpen up to
beat Navy.

On March 9, 1989, the Phi published
Lexington’s Police Chief Bruce Beard’s
comments on Fancy Dress. Beard said he,
was very pleased with the way Washington
and Lee students handled themselves over
the course of the 1989 Fancy Dress events.
Police only made five drunk driving arrests
that were attributable to Fancy Dress . There
were seven drunk in public arrests, none
related to Fancy Dress. The wet weather and
the lack of a beer garden at the Ball were
cited for the relatively uneventful weekend.

By JAY WHITE
Phi Staff Writer

The Short Peoples’ Organization’s ﬁrst at-
tempt at breaking into the W&L party scene
met with much «approval. The Tuesday night
bash, held at the Boiler Room, was a success,
said organizer Doug “Willow” Kaufman.

Despite the inclement weather and Fancy
Dress events, over 100 people attended the
social event of the season.

The organization began in October with a
group of “vertically challenged” individuals
sitting around attempting to create a new, non-
fraternal, non-exclusive party scene. Kaufman
said a tall person walked into the room and
began joking about the height of those present.
As a joke, the shorter individuals said they
would all get together, have a party and not

invite the taller people. What began as a slight
jest turned into a wildly popular idea. Eventu-
ally people began talking and the idea snow-

ff4'«.v“-"'.-'

‘r‘a. u,v"~

s

lvl

59.93’

balled. What was initially thought to be a small ,

following turned into a major Washingon and
Lee movement of those men who are 5 feet 8
inches and shorter and those women who are 5
feet 3 inches and shorter.

The main event leading uptoTuesday night’s
festivities was the nomination and election of
the king and queen of the Short People. Party.
Cups with the names of the nomim L :s were

placed outside the co-op. Those WlSl1l1lj_{l<i\/OIC -

for their favorite short people placed -..m~.;2cy in

the cups. The winners were announce‘ Al the
party.

The reigning king and queen on ..-rti- ,
cally challenged are Pete Jail’ and

Meg Randol.

-‘£1.91’.
l

4---

kttllnlaalhl 1| I‘-'a‘A“L’A’l‘1 &l'&‘a.

I

x«- 1.-. 2.. .»,~.~.—.r-.-.«-.

, L

.anc-f‘C‘».1a.

.A.C

c

I

uI‘\|~'nI

 

    
   
 

,_ PAGE 6

 

W The Ring-tum Phi, Marchll,19!:4 L

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

 

off the mark by Mark Parisi ~ by Jeff Ma<=Ne11y

AIIANHT. IMIUM (‘I991 MINI PANSI

 

Dave by David Miller

THE M05T IMPORTANT

THlNé ABOUT BEING IN

THERAPY l9 Kwowwa
lusT WHEN...

ENOUGH I5 ENOUGH!

       
    
  
   

THAT'S IT, Doc, were Done!

H " ANY MORE Przoerzess couro <,:elzlou;LY
NO MORE COUCH Time!

JEOPAKD1ZE THE MIDLIFE CRl§l6 {vs

, O

 

IAN usrs A POPULAR METHOD To _ ,-; ' _, <
OVERCOME HI5 FEAR OF Pursue SPEAi<lN6. plugger goss_

 

Colonnade Crossword
 ‘° " NON grounur laireéilta... 

9 Scream '1\\ANKs F02 ‘(RE
13 Quickly: abbr. ' CM<C RFUPE
14 Seine city
16 Bread spread
17 Teamster‘s rig
18 Emanate
19 Plank or way

start
20 Fervor
21 Dog
23 Yard
components
25 Big —. Cal.
26 Axis‘ foe
29 Shimmers
34 Mary Tyler —
35 Creek
36 Pig
37 Dull person
38 Cereal grass
seed
39 Greek portico
40 Natives of: sufl.

 
  
        
   

l.&o<§9 $2l.=«_L\3t~l\ 1941 Ncinlvmm l1I»bl

M“ PA H/MR
“ L‘ BWOWERIII

0 . REVERF PA

     

  
 

 

by Mike Polus

     

41 Deciphers tea .r

leaves C1994 n. e Med: rvices. Inc. 93/11/94 \   V
42 Oder All Rrgh eserve '
43 Forswear
45 Gets home 6 Measure ol gold

safely fineness ;
46 Map abbr. 7 Clapton  ,
47 Den 8 Desire '
48 Place lor 9 Cultured milk ® \ \

entertainment 10 Verve (1) (ﬂ ‘~\
52 Kind of 11 Furnish _______._1— /

dance 12 Captain's
56 Baby word journal
57 Up in arms 15 Meeting
58 Same: prel. 22 Corn covering HEY THIS COFFEE

59 English river 24 Shoe width
60 Camoullage 26 Fossil resin

l5 KINDA WEAK-

I WANT STRONG,

61 Isaac's son 27 Unlettered  _ T-{IE 
62 Blanc and 28 ltaIy's Sophia ", DARK  5
Brooks 29 School mark - '

63 Get ahead of 30 Superman‘s girl
64 Landlords due 31 Chemical
compound

   

 

 

   
   
   
  

      
 
    
  

 
       

 

   

 

    
  
 

   
    
  
 

 

 

DOWN ; 32 Nary a soul 03/M/54
" 1 Sprint 33 Hits hard 44 Keyboard 50 Harvest
2 ‘l/JVHOdr((:l’sSloatndlng  Eaiiifogo by 45 gv?/gydnsnems  i\/4Ci):3a’f:lC:“Ow
i::':?:‘:m";:a::' 39 2292:, 4’ ?n‘;‘t'?3:‘:na 22 55:5?“  SHOE
5 gasden tools 3; -B-8-tile __ jg <l:l:2:i:2npiarTTage 56 \'.’r\"fal‘:er1r1rtT)1:El"?enr  Jeff
S i - Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination. I:
gag? '4  Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only. '  Storage N Ow Open .
l"f-   Within walkin distance from c R ‘ '
:4 L. _, _  g ampus. eserve your unit now for summer months
254 _,‘“"“‘  Call 463-3835. while aVai1ab1e_
  ___ . . - Excellent location in Downtown Lexington — 1
MM - ,, A¢.In.usszo'ns. Counselor Basement of Dominoe’s Pizza “
Saturday Mowing All U can Eat Pancakes Th<;o‘:V:411;:\t:i$:f;3n:J:Sngzuzizegtlggsaggliclagfpns Catering to W&L students, walk to storage from i
Dan)’ Specials‘ 24 H0ur‘A‘DaY Breakfast interested graduating senoirs should submit a cover letter and Campus In 2 minutes‘
Meals That Cater 10 Bi8APP€ti1€S resume no later than reasonable low rates, by month or year.
F ‘d d]gr  4 Monday, March 21, 1994. Open 8 a_m_ _5 pm. daily, .
tur a 1 s .m.- a.m. .
fl 3)’ an Su%I1lday9}’a.nﬁ_2 pml’ Julia M. Kozak by appointment on Saturday.
L Rt. 11 North g 463-3478 Open 24 Hours Associoalitte Direfcioir of Admission Sizes from 4'X8' to 8'x12'.
"’ “ ‘:1’ Ice 0 missions
_ V . A  V C. Call Mrs. Brown, property manager ' o 
J _ _ L" CRUISE 1J0B;S  C&I Associates - 463-3013
1  "  St dents Needed! after 5 p.m. (703) 984-9402
1 p g H g‘   Earn $:000+ per miritth + world M  J
- " I 1;- .’{’-4:)“.-:" travel (Hawaii, exico, the
t‘W«‘?Siii :::::”:;:;;::::l:”:;‘;:;:,.t::’ " I
      -    GHQ Restaurant
, .. *4 g g  I ._ g 1'. V _ ' employment program call: '
    ~~    “ass,Egzlfsrlzezitférgzr announccs
Stonewall SQUBTE Sh D lng CEDIET
LexIn9ton,VAf I} ‘£rI‘lfe7¢;lit'3r I‘
463-9800 ——~———
New Music for this Week i Shop for E W“RE”°W °"E“F°"
Gang Sm _ Hm, to M V ,3, Pappagauo E CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST IL
Elvls Costello - Brutal Youth 2:, Ladies, Shoes’ ‘K Monday _ F1-lday
Eternal - Always & Forever , ‘K 830 a m _ 11.00 a m
Nine Inch Nails - Downward Spiral :3; Clothlng, and ‘K ' ' ' ' '
David Lee Roth - Filthy Little Mouth )3, Accessories ‘:1 ' C0ffee ' T03St
Soundgarden - SuperUnknown I} ‘K - Tea - Bagels/ .
and many m°’°-' mg 05;: - Pastry Cream Cheese
, 21> up ‘i1 - CNN Cable News
Speolal : H 10 5 30 E , -
_ . _ . 9 _ - _
,¢,_ Olglrgh _ Sat- a (:1 “I30: dxln for we class hffdor halng out .I.
$  )3, 23 N Main St $1 ea e paper. (no smo ng p ease.)
Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri at Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m.. :3». 4 - 8 - <5: Also check out the new Luncheon Menu. l
Sun. Noon-10 p.m. F. )1}  $1
“-1 4' ‘ﬂrikikﬂrﬁrfrikﬂrrkii

' x

 

_f'The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1994

"0 ANA/</AL F££,
A $1,000 (KENT um;

AND LOW RArf_5_
OW» NOW mr ma BEMH!

. .2 ’.:_:;”5?'l

IF 0 I>o~’r cor IT,
oar |T.‘"

PAGE 8

 

 

Ellie iﬁing-tum ilﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A crossroads in
W&L history

Washington and Lee historians may look back on the 1993-94
school year and see it as a great turning point in the University’s
history. The White Book Review Committee has spent months
reviewing our Honor System and has proposed changes which
range from simple style changes to thought-provoking alterations
in the administration of the Honor System. If the Executive
Committee approves any, or all, of the proposed revisions, the
Honor System and W&L will be changed at least for three years
if not permanently.

The WBRC deserves thanks from every student of Washington
and Lee, past present and future. Their task has been nothing less
than monumental and their final report is indicative of the time and
effort they put into the review. Now, the big decision is up to the
Executive Committee. Which, if any, of the proposed changes will
they approve?

Several of the proposed revisions are very interesting, but one
in particular caught our eyes. On page two of the proposed
revisions is an addition that will allow the EC to refer certain cases
to other disciplinary bodies, such as the Student Conduct Commit-
tee and the Student-Faculty Hearing Board. The proposal resulted
from concerns about the EC handling rape cases as Honor Viola-
tions. The WBRC’s report says “the recommendation is designed
to make students more aware of committees designed to handle

specific problems, yet it does not discourage students from bring- A

ing any case to the Executive Committee.” But consider the
authority the White Book carries with it. As time passes students
will not remember the purpose of this addition to the White Book.
Students may interpret this revision as suggesting the EC should
not be bothered with certain “sensitive issues.” But the EC is
charged with investigating and hearing cases involving situations
in which students believe their trust has been violated. How can
a violation of trust not be a sensitive issue?

Certainly students can be made more aware of the SFHB and
SCC in another way. If the EC puts such a statement in the White
Book they run the risk of doing far more than notifying students of
other organizations capable of handling certain situations. By
passing this proposed revision the EC may inadvertently be
creating a multi-sanction honor system.

Under the current system the EC must investigate every report
of a possible Honor Violation. The EC now has only two choices:
they must either have a hearing if there is evidence that an Honor
Violation may have occurred, or they can forget the matter. If the
l'CVlS10n is passed, the EC still must investigate all reports of a
possible Honor Violation, but it can then defer the case to another
body. What the revision creates is a loophole through the single
sanction if a future EC wishes to use it as such.

It is difficult to imagine that this is the way the WBRC intends
for the revision to.be used. They intend the revision to primarily
address the question of rape. It is true the EC has not been trained
to deal with the issue of rape. But when the BC was created and the
White Book written, rape was not a situation the campus had to
deal with. But this is a co-ed campus now and rapes do occur on
our campus. The creation of bodies such as the SFHB has removed
the EC from responsibility in dealing with “sensitive” cases, such
as rape. But what could be more dishonorable than rape?

What it all comes down to is we must decide if we want our
Honor System to remain single-sanction or begin to evolve into a
multi-sanction system. If we truly have a single-sanction honor
system then all acts that are found dishonorable should be pun-
ished in the same way. If we choose to move to a multi-sanction
system than we can no longer boast “No violation of trust is too

small to be ignored, for we understand that honor is not measured
by degree.”

Quote of the Week:

Female student: “So do you think VMI should admit women?”
Male student: “First they need to admit men.”
-—Two W&L students discussing VMI’s pending lawsuit.

E112 itiing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hillary Olson, Melissa Sawyer

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assisant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Betsy Green

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Oberrnueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year» at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.‘ Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁoe, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ring:t_um Phi, March 11, 1934

‘I

We must face our alcohol problem

Washington and Lee University is a unique place.
For the most part, the elements of this institution that
make it unique add to the student life and history here.
However, there are a few elements that make us
unique in a way that severely damages our students,
our traditions, and our general image.

Before anyone begins to
turn the page thinking this

recognize these warning signs seem, instead, to be
more interested in keeping our students out of the
papers and out of jail.

l was most disturbed to read in last week’s Phi that
Officer F.W. Smith of the Lexington Police Depart-
ment came to the last lFC meeting to warn the frater-

nities that the Alcoholic Bev-
erage Control (ABC) would

is another “What’s wrong
with W&L” piece, I would
like to say that I firmly be-
lieve those of us who truly
love this school and wish to
honor its traditions are not
those who prefer to simply
remember its remarkable

 

be in town over Fancy Dress
Weekend. Smith warned stu-

PATRICK 2f.I‘g‘i.‘?..‘1‘.‘.‘.‘;§ 2l.%°l:.°l‘§.'.’.°.:'
MCDERMOFF, so they would not be arrested.“
994 One would think the purpose

of the ABC was to annoy stu-

dents or to generally cause

past, but those who wish to

incorporate the great tradi-

tions of this university into an even better future. That
said, we must begin to realize that the largest obstacle
to that future is the alcohol crisis on this campus.

My purpose here is not to decry alcohol as a sinful
substance that we should all stay away from, but
rather, to focus on the fact that many of us have simply
lost perspective concerning alcohol on campus and
that still others have been purposefully ignoring what
should be an obvious problem. While alcohol is a
normal part of most people’s college experience, here
at Washington and Lee we have moved far beyond
that normality to a point where the rare non-drinker
among us is seen as a hopeless prude, a social outcast,
someone who simply doesn’t know how to have a
good time. For those among us who do not drink there
isn’t much to do in Lexington on a Friday or Saturday
night. Every message being received tells us that if we
want to have a good weekend we have to have a beer
in our hand.

As I said before, I believe that many of us have
simply lost perspective as to the drinking levels and
styles that exist here. “Us” includes not just students
but faculty, administrators, alumni, trustees, parents,
and city officials. All of these groups are responsible
for the severe drinking problem that exists on this
campus, they all enable the other, continuing a pattern
of denial. We do this because of who we are. We are
a part of this university and for many of us that means
that the use (or abuse) of alcohol on campus has
become normal.

We have all seen the warning signs that something
is terribly wrong here. Freshman pledges doings “keg
kills” at their respective houses, 18-year-old women
stumbling back to the dorms after drinking a case of
beer at a party, disturbing rises in the number of
students arrested for driving under the inﬂuence,
fraternity brothers destroying their houses in fits of
drunken rage. These are just four of the countless
examples of alcohol abuse on campus. Different mem-
bers of the community see these examples in different
ways. I believe many students see them as a normal
part of campus life. “Work hard, play hard:” that’s our
motto. This is not to excuse the actions of many
students, but to explain that this hostile environment
leaves many students with little choice. There are no
“role models” for entering freshman who do not wish
to drink or who wish to drink in moderation. What’s
worse, those among us who are supposed to be able to

disruption. While I am sure

that we as students all appre-
ciate Officer Smith’s advice, perhaps he should re-
member that possession or consumption of an alco-
holic beverage while under the age of 21 is a crime in
Virginia and that the ABC is here to enforce that law.
What on the surface seems like a kind gesture by the
local police is really nothing more than negligence, as
it is also Officer Smith’s responsibility to enforce that
law, not to point out ways of getting around it.

Lest anyone think that the Lexington police are
alone, we should remember that they give that kind of
advice under the watchful eye of the university’s
administration,whocould
not be happier that the
police are so willing to
help our drunken students
avoid arrest, and, heaven
forbid, publicity. They are
quite content to turn their
backs on what they know
to be a serious and grow-
ing problem on this cam-
pus. Unlike the students
here, the administrators of
this university are trained
to recognize this kind of
campus crisis. They are
simply choosing to ignore
the problem for fear of
the negative publicity
involved in admitting to
a ﬂaw in the W&L
tradition.

Our ever-watchful and generous alumni would be
made to feel uncomfortable if we were to admit that
this university has been generating class after class of
well-educated, successful, alcoholics for decades.
And yet, that is precisely what has been happening.
We need only look to the various alumni activities that
occur during the year, the most impprtant element of
which is always alcohol. Each May we witness hun-
dreds of alumni coming back to celebrate reunions;
they have dinners, offer large donations, and then they
go out to the frat parties and stagger back to their
hotels aftera night of “playing hard.” This is not to say
that all W&L alumni and students have drinking
problems, but one mus t admit that we far exceed
any definition 0 f normality concerning alcohol use
(and abuse).

 

While alcohol

most people ’s college experience,
here at Washington and Lee we
have moved far beyond that nor-
mality to a point where the rare
non-drinker among us is seen as a
hopeless pmde, a social outcast,
someone who simply doesn ’t know
how to have a good time.

 

This pattern is soon to be confirmed by a Dean
of Students Office survey conducted last year ?o
measure alcohol behavior on campus. The resu ts
of this long-awaited survey are both dramatic and
disturbing. They show that significant numbers of
W&L students have what could be characterized as
“drinking problems.” When the results of the sur-
vey are finally released to the university, we will
have solid evidence of a severe crisis. If t e
university can be jolted outof its painful inaction
and denial, we may ﬁnall y begin to heal our
community.

What the administration must realize is that
before students will begin to “wake-up” to the
reality of alcoholism and addiction, the university
must stop enabling student drinking. As a mem , r
of several campus health committees, l have en-
countered many students who have already realized
that alcohol became a problem for them and are
now in recovery. These students say repeatedly that
this is not an easy place to be a recovering alcoholic.
While they are seen as strange for not drinking with
the rest of their friends, they are also faced with the
burden of realizing that many of those friends aie

traveling down the same addictive road they

were on.

What is truly sickening is the fact that much of
this could be avoided by the implementation and
enforcement of campus alcohol policies that show

our students, most es-

pecially incomilg
freshman, that while
is a nomzal part of

alcohol is something
that most college stu-
dentsencounter,weas
a university are no
longer going to make
it easy to become zil-
dicted during your
four year stay. This

from an administra-

cerned with tile w0l-
fareofitsstudentsthan

checkbook. This is

certainly not what we ‘
have now, but it is an '

achievable goal. As strongly as I believe that ﬁnan-

cial reasons are to blame for our university’s ing» ‘
tion concerning this and other issues, I also believe 1
that the best of intentions are involved in the thought .

process of our administrators.

We are privileged to have a collection of fine A_
individuals working to ensure the future of this ’
university. However, these individuals, in their _

efforts to secure the financial well-being of e
institution, have lost sight of the purpose 0 a

university. Its purpose is not simply to preserve _

itself, rather, it exists for the betterment and preser-
vation of young minds.

This purpose cannot be fulfilled as long as the _

university continues to allow alcohol to weaken the
students of this institution. ‘

New president should embody W&L

type of policy initia- I
tive can only come ,

tion that is more con- ,

with the size of its ‘

John M. McCardell, Jr. has seen
some of the most sweeping changes
during his professional tenure.
McCardell is
president of
Middlebury Col-

made McCardell was the acting presi-
dent, and one year later became presi-
dent of the college. What should be the
meaning of
this for
W&L as

lege in Vermont,
a 1971 alumnus of
Washington and
Lee and a nomi-
nee for the posi-
tion of president
here at W&L.

 

the presi-
dent search
gears up?
W a s h -
ington and
Lee Uni-
versity has

\ When I heard
this 1 thought it
was good news, perhaps a W&L gradu-
ate would be chosen as president; some-
one who understands W&L. McCardell,
however, may be a wolf in sheep’s
clothing.

McCardell began at Middlebury Col-
lege as a professor of history in 1976
and since that time has moved up
through the ranks. Paralleling his rise
has been the (political) liberalizing of
the college to an amazing extend. The
most fundamental of these changes
came in 1991 at which point fraternities
at Middlebury were told to go co-ed, or
face expulsion.

What ensued was one of the largest
legal battles of fraternity v. university.
Delta Kappa Epsilon (DKE), which
owned its own house, began legal ac-
tion against the college, a battle which
has not ended.

At the time when this decision was

a long and
proud tra-
dition of fraternity life stemming back,
in fact, to the founding of the Lexing-
ton Triad: Kappa Alpha Order, Alpha
Tau Omega, and Sigma Nu. However,
with the recent politically correct re-
volt against fraternities nationwide, it
is even more clear that we must do
something to preserve this proud heri-
tage. This begins by choosing a presi-
dent who agrees that these traditions
have made W&L great, and wishes to
continue and, in fact, encourage their
growth.

President McCardell of Middlebury
College, though a W&L alumnus,
would be a dangerous man to have as
president. According to the
Middlebury College public affairs of-
fice, McCardell is in full support of the
1991 decision to, in effect, rid the
campus of fraternities.

There is much more at stake here

' liberal arts is the

than simply not having a place to drink
beer; it is a question of the right of
assembly, a right which could, and has,
been equally established for women
via sororities. President McCardell is
helping to paint the broad strokes of
political correctness which have de-
stroyed some of this country’s proud-
est institutions.

What the students of this university
must make clear to the presidential
search committee is that we do not
want just another northeastern liberal
arts college,
whose notion of

requirement of a
women’s history
course or one in
underwater bas-

When I heard this I
thought it was good news,

As a Washington and Lee student,
and (hopefully) future alumnus l im-
plore the search committee to seek out
a president who knows W&L. One
who wishes not to changes those things
which have made us great, but rather to
strengthen them. This individual need
not, necessarily, be a W&L alumnus;
he must be one who believes in what a
liberal arts education means.

Any attempt by the administration
to bring in a W&L graduate who does
not hold to the traditions of W&L would
be a great disser-
vice to the stu-
dents who will he
affected.

So when this

in print l hope

column comes out ’

ket weaving. McCardell has ’
d\h[::s:ingl(on perhaps a W&L graduate had an enjoyable
an e asc ar- -_ stay in Lexingt .
acter because of would be chosen as presl lam confidenttgalt
itsfratemitiesand dent; someone who un- his remarks to pm
nowsororities,its dc,-Stands L_ P,-est‘. Beta Kappa will

Honor System
(applicable to
both academic
and social situa-
tions), and even
the speaking tra-
dition. This is a
combination that

dent M cCardell, however;
may be a wolf in sheep’s
clothing.

be worthwhile.’
But while l am if

confident in his
abilities
thinker add
scholar, 1 do not
think W&L

should become yet

as a‘

no other school shares: a proud tradi-
tion of strong academic, and an even
stronger social life.

another northeastern liberal (arts) col-

lege. Let us build up and hold up our

ﬁne institutions, not tear them down.
0

 

0

= e Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1994

pos needs no course for golf

Pos’ SPACE
Tom Hespos

“Caddy!” I screamed at the top of
, lungs. “Where the hell is my sand

dge?”

To ask this question was somewhat
vinthss, as the only club we had was

old rusty 4-iron that we lifted from

ris’ golfbag without his knowledge.
hen the grass, snow and beer-cov-
ed club was later given back to him at
e end of the tournament, he was only
ghtly peeved.

Thc weather was quite pleasant —
nny and in the neighborhood of 65
grees. Unfortunately, the snow from
xington’s 739th snowstorm of the
ar could melt only so fast. The fair-

y was a sheet of white, which re-
cted the sun into our eyes and ampli-
.d t e post-Fancy Dress hangovers
t plagued the golfers that fine
turday.

Watson was in the damn trap again.

a ﬁt of Watsonian anger brought on
‘ a poor performance on the last hole
d several shots of Pepe Lopez the

ht, efore, he had hacked"his beer V

.n in a deep depression in the snow,
ht next to a large, scraggly bush.
male spectators from the various
rginia ﬁnishing schools applauded.
- I stepped up to the tee, brandishing
- rusty club like it came out ofa new
tof ings. Setting the empty Key-
ne n the snow, I sauntered back
; ind the can in a Payne Stewart-
~- ue fashion and lined up my tee shot.
as too bad we didn’t have that sand
dge. I needed loft in order to clear
scraggly bush to which Watson’s
n was currently uncomfortably close.

“...‘While we’re still young...”

atsonwhined. I ignored him.

I addressed the ball. The crowd
rrted getting rowdy. They lit up ciga-
_- tes and continued drinking from their

er cans, which would become Offi-
l Pro—Am Beercan Golf Balls when
e arﬂ Watson got to the next hole.

“Nnnnnnnnnnnnnoonan,” mouthed

e spectatorwho had seen Caddyshack

one too many times.

The backswing was nearly perfect.
The backswing is crucial when you are
hitting lofty shots that need to clear
scraggly bushes. I swung through the
can and watched it sail over the bush
and land next to the dumpster. I was on
the green in one. With this hole desig-
nated as a Par 5, I had a good chance for
an eagle on my next shot.

Watson swore and kicked snow at
his girlfriend, putting out her cigarette.

“Chill out, meathead,” I advised.
“Your problem is psychological. You
have to be the ball. Did you hear me?
You’re not being the ball.”

Watsonlined
up his shot,
swung, and

promptly cov-
ered everybody
in the peanut
gallery with
white slush. His
can ricocheted
off the bush,
ﬂew off in a ran-
dom direction
and came to rest
in the middle of
the street —— out
of bounds.

“I think that’s
a four-stroke
penalty,” I said,

,, , bounds.
but we re

Watson lined up his
shot, swung, and
promptly covered every-
body in the peanut gal-
lery with white slush. His
can ricocheted off the
bush, ﬂew oﬁ in a ran-
dom direction and came
to rest in the middle of
the street — out of

howled again. Ray pitched forward and
passed out in the snow face first after
mumbling something about Jimi
Hendrix and a worldwide conspiracy.

Heading into the final hole on the
tour, I was clearly comfortable with
my 32-stroke lead. As Doug stepped
up to the final tee, he was berated by the
crowd for leading off the hole when I
clearly had honors from the previous
one. His shot hooked into the road and
came to rest on the hood of an expen-
sive-looking Alfa Romeo.

Watson screamed a bad word that
started with “F” and immediately
started making excuses.

“It was
Ray’s fault,” he
complained.
“Ray ‘noon-
aned’ me.”

This was
clearly not the
case, as Ray’s
p a s s e d - o u t
form was still
laying face first
in the snow. A
little puddle of
drool had
formed in the
snow right next
to his face.
Some girls
helped him up
and steered him

clearly playing
under winter
rules, so if the
referee okays it, you can take a drop.”

We whirled our heads around and
stared earnestly at Ray, our referee. He
took a big swig of his Keystone and
sort of half-belched, half-nodded.

Watson took a drop on the edge of
the lawn right next to the walkway. His
shot was beautiful. It sailed high above
the bush and landed three feet from the
dumpster. A decent chip would give
him a triple bogey for the hole.

“Be the ball,” I slowly muttered
under my breath as I chipped up for
my eagle.

Watson easily chipped in for his
pitiful triple bogey and the spectators

in the general
direction of the
19th hole.

“I was noonanedl” Watson com-
plained.

No one really cared at that point
because they had seen the sleek form of
a Lexington Police cruiser coming
down Lee Avenue, with the equally
sleek and supple form of Officer F.W.
Smith behind the wheel. The tourna-
ment ended with everyone heading to-
ward the l9th hole before Officer Smith
could get out o fhis car and admin-
ister Rodney King-style beatings unto
us all.

At the clubhouse, the finishing
school women poured us Bloody Marys
and administered to Ray’s self-inﬂicted

wounds from his fall into the snow.

“...Choked on his own vomit, my
foot...” Ray trailed off.

The Pro—Am Tournament play was
clearly over for the day, and Watson
and I raided the Official IFC-subsi-
dized can receptacles for range balls.
Ray got some ice beer and looked out
the window at Officer Smith, who was
staring cluelessly at the Alfa, obvi-
ously looking for damage.

“Humph,” snorted Ray in disgust.

“Can’t that guy just die or some-
thing so wecan finish ourtournament?”
pleaded Watson.

Ofﬁcer Smith waltzed back to his
car, disgusted that the beer can didn’t
scratch the finish on the Alfa. He
drove off in the direction of City Subs
and Steaks.

Since Ray didn’t want to get up
from his bar stool, we elected to finish
the tournament indoors, with the post-
Renaissance renovated bathroom serv-
ing as the green and the toilet as a cup.
Watson shoved the plunger in the toi-
let, to serve as the pin. We made a
mental note to remove it after the hole
was over, so as not to cause distress
to those who do not look before they
sit down.

Watson’s drive was long. He got a
good lie on top of the drain in the
bathroom and chipped his Keystone
into the bowl for an easy birdie. Smug
and confident, he stared at my drive, a
bad one by any standard. It had trav-
elled down the hallway, hit a door, and
ricocheted into the TV room, where it
came to rest on top ofthe big cube-
like coffee table the university had
given us.

“Renaissance bites,” I said while
lining up the next shot. Just then, Ray
burst in, flipped the lights off, and
promptly ruled the match over on ac-
count of darkness.

As Watson and I headed back to the
19th, we contemplated the truly rebel-
lious, anti-Renaissance message which
beercan golf conveys. A scream broke
the silence and we cringed under the
sudden realization that we had
forgotten to remove the pin from the
18th hole.

- the editor: _ V « M
The following opinions are my own. They are" not
:ant to reflect the position of the Publications Board.
I nnot let pass unchallenged Mr. Tompkins’
an—spirited and utterly unwarranted attack on Ca-
editors Anthony Catalano and Sarah Butler and
e Ring-tum Phi staff in last week’s issue of The
A g-tum Phi. lt’s bad enough but not surprising that,
' isdealingwithcampuspublications,Mr.Tompkins
ntinues to show either a fundamental ignorance of
call us disregard for the student constitution he
k a oath to uphold. But the personal nature ofthe
ults he directed at Mr. Catalano and Ms. Butler in
rticular suggesting that the Calyx’s difficulties re-
It from their not “getting off their respective asses”
eneath contempt.
Mr. Tompkins manifests a need to try to persuade
'- student body that he and the Executive Committee
ar nC responsibility for the Calyx’s current fiscal
oblems, and he implies that campus publications
- somehow pulling a fast one by not having to return
ney to the EC. In doing so, he is ignoring the
nstitutionf
Fact: The constitution provides that the EC will
7 the student activity fee to fund student subscrip-
ns tCthe Calyx and the Phi. While the amount of
ding is discretionary, the intent is clear: students’
ney is to be used to ensure that they will get their
[and their Calyx. To the extent that the EC uses the
dent activity fee to fund such broad-based organi-
- ions as the Ice Hockey Club and underfund student
blications, it is ignoring that constitutional man-
e. Why Mr. Tompkins does not see other student
anizations who ask the EC for money as gorging
-mselves at the students’ trough, to paraphrase him,
'-eyond me.
Fact: The constitution requires student publica-
ns to return to the Publications Board any budget

LETTERS

;surplus at the-end of the year. I suspectthat the
‘ students who wrote that constitution wisely envi-

sioned the Pub Board Reserve Fund as a safeguard
against the blatant reward-your-friends-and-punish-
your-enemies political pork barrel that the student
activities fee often becomes. In returning surpluses to
the Pub Board, the editors of student publications are
showing a familiarity with the constitution that Mr.
Tompkins apparently lacks.

Fact: Mr. Catalano and Ms. Butler have increased
revenue for the Calyx from sources other than student
pictures by more than 60 percent this year. In addition,
their increased efforts to persuade students to sit for
pictures have halted a trend ofseveral year duration in
which fewer students each year had their pictures
taken. This year, the number of students having their
pictures taken stabilized. That is hardly evidence of
people who won’t “get off their... asses.”

Fact: Even ifevery student at Washington and Lee
had his or her picture taken for the Calyx — every
single one, no exceptions —— and the Calyx collected
100 percent ofthe sitting fees, that income would only
just make up this year’s shortfall. To expect 100
percent student participation and 100 percent collec-
tion is unrealistic, and Mr. Tompkins is misleading
students by implying that the problem would be
solved ifthe Calyx put the arm on more students to sit
for pictures. If Mr. Tompkins is looking to compel
student participation, I submit that that is the EC’s
responsibility.

Fact: When The Trident approached the EC for
money this year. The Trident was not in the same
position ofﬁnancial strength that Mr. Tompkins seems
to be demanding of other student publications. The
Trident was struggling. I believe that EC acted prop-
erly in showing its support for a second student
newspaper, but to fund one publication because it was
struggling and to threaten to deny funding to another

Tbmpkins presents only one side of the story

for the same reason is inconsistent andsmack-s’of
blatant favoritism. ’

Fact: The Calyx made clear to the EC its finan-
cial position at the beginning of the year. It was
locked into a multi-year contract entered into well
before Mr. Catalano’s and Ms. Butler’s steward-
ship. That ﬁxed expense is the lion’s share of the
Calyx’s debt. There was nothing the current editors
could do about it except to generate more revenue,
and they did. In my opinion, by cutting student
publications across the board, the EC either ignored
or misunderstood the Calyx’s situation.

Fact: The Phi was not poorly managed last year.
It ended the year with a surplus, which, by consti-
tutional mandate, it returned to the Pub Board. That
money was used to buy equipment that student
publication needed.

I do agree with one of Mr. Tompkins’ state-
ments. Kevin Roddey has done a superb job as
business manager ofthe Phi this year. Ad lineage is
up and so are collections, so the paper can publish
more pages and give students more information.
The Phi staff is to be commended for those im-
provements. But Mr. Roddey’s success should not
be taken to mean Mr. Catalano and Ms. Butler have
failed. It is an inappropriate comparison.

Many of the members of the EC have worked
hard to understand the importance of student pub-

" lications to the campus, and to accommodate the

need for those publications. Mr. Tompkins’ letter is
an insult to them as well as to the Calyx and Phi
staffs. His letter does, however, make obvious one
thing. As a politician-in-training, he has mastered
the basic tools: half—truths, buck passing, and petty
posturing.

Brian Richardson
Publications Board Advisor

 

I terviews and Photos
y Joe Framptom
o

tt Jackson, ’94, Hanover, Pa. —
eam of broccoli because it will

with you the rest of the day.” inside.”
0

 

TALKBACK

A column, ‘-‘Limbaugh misjudges liberal‘

Film

The Film Society presents Like
Water for Chocolate (Mexico,
1993), directed by Alfonso Arau.
Showings will be at 8:05 p.m. on
Friday, March 11 and Saturday,
March 12 in the Troubadour Cin-
ema. There is no charge for admis-
sion. The film is in Spanish with
English subtitles.

Step Up

Step into a fundraiser to help
prevent heart disease. Gather you
team of four steppers for a fun-
filled afternoon ofraising funds and
heart rates. Give us a hand with
your feeton Friday, March 18. Look
for sign-ups in front of the Co-op.

Admissions

The Admissions Office is now
accepting applications for an antici-
pated admissions counselor posi-
tion. All interested graduating se-
niors should submit a cover letter
and resume no later than Monday,
March 21, 1994 to Julia M. Kozak,
Associate Director of Admissions.

 

Hillel

Hillel is sponsoring a “Passover
Community Seder” for interested
W&L students, faculty and staff on
Tuesday, March 29 at 6:00 pm. in
the University Center, Room 114.
Call Karen Lyle at 463-8798 by
Friday, March 25.

Trip
Anyone planning on leaving for
Baltimore or Cleveland early in
exam week, please give me a call

ASAP. l’ll pay for gas. Sarah
Drain —~ 464-8690.

Big Sibling

Be a big brother or sister to an
incoming East Asian exchange stu-
dent. Please see Professor Rogers
in the East Asian language center
for details.

Party

The Peer Counselors, the Mi-
nority Students Association, the
Panhellenic Council, and the Inter-
Fraternity Council are planning a
party in the Boiler Room on Friday,
March 11, to improve race rela-
tions. Everyone’s invited.

Clarke should look over
views on Limbaugh

To the editor:

Most people would agree that the
entertainment industry and commer-
cial television do have to sell their
product to the American people, and
indeed most of the media does a good
job at making money in this way. Un-
fortunately, Nova Clarke misunder-
stands this capitalist idea in her recent

values.‘-’>’c~m~ ~‘~ 

Miss Clarke claims that “Rush is
completely wrong in characterizing the
ideals and motivations of most liber-
als,” but it is her that is wrong in
characterizing Rush Limbaugh him-
self.

Granted, Rush Limbaugh does
clothe his ideas in a language and style
that is appealingto most ofhis viewers,
but he does not characterize liberals in
the way Miss Clarke claims he does.
Moreover, Miss Clarke begins her
column on this topic, and ends in a
litany of her own political values,
using the banner of “How Rush Is
Mean” to further her own political
agenda.

Rush Limbaugh would indeed char-
acterize Miss Clarke as a liberal, but
not only politically. Rush would lump
Miss Clarke with other liberals in the
way she handled her column. Miss
Clarke started her column emotionally
and mean-spiritedly. Then, she ended
her column with a list of all the won-
derful things liberalism has to offer. It
is these things and the way they are
handled that Rush Limbaugh attacks
everyday on radio and television.

Rush agrees that many liberals do
have good intentions, but he also be-
lieves that these good intentions and
the emotions that go along with them
are the things that need to stay out of
politics. Emotional pleas for help and
understanding in politics muddy the
waters of the intellectual debates and

-73.5

deliberation that politics are all about.

Liberals claim that “we must care,”
when what we really need to do is
think. Two examples come to mind.
The “caring” liberals of the 60s created
the huge welfare state and high-rise
housing developments that perpetuate
helplessness in order to “help” the
troubled peoples of the big cities of
America: As liberals still do today, the

‘libe‘rals“’éf"t,he ‘60s ‘jiln_'1pe'd" into this

issue with emotion without thinking
about the long-term consequences.

Likewise, many liberals today refuse
to allow white parents to adopt black
babies, claiming that black babies’ “eth-
nic identities and culture” will be threat-
ened should this be allowed, but the
long-term effects of this emotional is-
sue are again ignored and not fully
thought out.

Rush would agree with many of the
liberal ends of policy; no one is for
poverty, toxic waste, or AIDS babies.
But liberals like Miss Clarke think that
only their emotional, irrational poli-
cies are the cure and that they are the
only ones that “care.”

This is the way Rush Limbaugh
characterizes liberals, not by petty con-
cerns over money and selﬁshness as
Nova Clarke suggests. “Symbolism
over substance” and “emotion over
thought” are the real concerns that Rush
has about liberals.

MissClarkeshouldrealizethatsym—
bolism and emotion are not the cure-
alls to the problems and politics of
America. Maybe she should actually
read Rush’s second book, See I Told
You S0, or listen and watch his radio
and television shows to ﬁnd Rush’s
answers before she jumps to conclu-
sions about aman that is respect by
so many Americans.

Douglas W. Thiessen
Chairman, College Republicans

 

What’s your favorite Co—op food?

Wright Marshall, ’95, Griffin, Ga. and Lauren Guthrie, ’97, Lansdale, Pa.
— “Blow-Pops because you have to suck real long and there’s a surprise

Texas —— “We like the fruit salad.”

Michael Jones, ’95, Pensacola, Fla. and Charles Ferguson, ’95, Abilene,

I

Alex Churchill, ’94, Tacoma, Wash.
— “Grilled cheese because they’re
cheap, but they really don’t have any-
thing I like.”

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 19

ﬁre Ring-tum Phi is undergoing a changing of the guard.
The graduating staff is phasing outwith the March 25
issue, and incoming executive editor, Sarah Gilbert, is
evaluating and re—assigning current staff and looking for
new talent to fill empty positions.   r
All journalism majors and interested stucents with jour— .
nalistic experience are encouraged to contact The Ring- 0
tum Phi, 462-4060 or Sarah Gilbert if they Wish to be a
part of an evolving tradition.
About to begin its 97th year, The Ring-tum Phi is one of
the oldest and best college newspapers in the country,
and your talent is vvelcomed.

Come and be a part of the university's rich

  past, changing present and bright future.
Catch The Ring-'tum Phi ever.

   The

(Pan

 

tof 1eW
. Restaurant ' .
Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing
$2 off any pasta dinner with
Student I .D. ’
Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn

Valley

7/7u5Vl&ce  

wanowme sroass “

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

 

463-7797 I

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////

INVENTORY REDUCTION

  SALE!

Now Thru March 15

RAFTS PLUS, INC.

AMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES

Everything Marked Down

20%

Trains, Games, Models, Beads, Basket Making Supplies,
Doll Parts. Much More In Craft and Hobby Supplies.

Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5

Lexington 463-3355 /
/,

\\\\\\\\r

\\\\\\\\\x\\\\\\

31 S. Main St.,

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

 

Attention: Fraternities, Sororities.
Club & Intramural Teams

       
 

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

 
   

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

Want fast service St competitive prices for m)
(3) your nexthscreen&printe1:1 order? We now 
( ) print in— ouse stoc many co ors in

(0) tees, sweats St 2 button shirts. Check us «»
(0) before your next game or party. We’d like (1')
to show you what we can do.

gizat gsam éﬁozta

115 W. Nelson St.

(0)
(0)
(0)
Lexington’s Complete Sporting Goods Store A

 
 

Vessssssssssvvvv-vv

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186
Domestic Work Wanted

L St d t R t House for Rent -

Ow u en  es Four Bedroom, Two Bath ,
For More Information r _ , .

Please can , ...ocated Along Rt. 11 - 7 miles south of
Lerrarrre Alexander Lexington; available June 1. $880 per
464-9074 month Call 464-4791 anytime.
References Available ‘ﬂ

".Zecwe tée  to ad,"

   

D‘

. I
 2;‘. TAyloR& Ellesmd

Catering is available

for Graduation or any other '7
special occasion——

graduation, weddings,

cocktail parties, etc. I

631 Waddell Street, Lexington
463-5004 1

 

A
‘l

 

  

f The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1994

   

         Itarnsreeter  
“MEAN”-OW PRICES

: _Q

‘ WEEKLY SPECIAL I

.
21-25 COUNT
JUMBO RAW
SHRIMP

 

   

' RMOIIR
OT DOGS .2 02.0

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   

    
   

LOW PRICES

   

FRESH
CUCUMBERS. . . . .EACHo25

CALIFORNIA NAVEI.
ORANGES ..... ..EAcH025

EEIEIIEBINS ........ .. sAcHc25

CRISP

 . . .1 LB. BAG 

25

    

 

GEIRUII...

A   7 LOW PRICES  
TROPICANA DIET COKE oR
' ORANGE JUICE COCA-COLA

HOMESTYLE
OR CALCIUM
'64
REGULAR, 
OZ. ,
6 PACK
I2 OZ. CANS

  
   

WEEKLY SPECIAL

IN THE DEU-BAKERY ALL VARIETIES

LOW FAT MUFFINS

6 249

 

. PoIAi‘6"cHIPs

'6 OZ.

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
’ Standings as of 03/ 11/94

Top: Wilson
Field, once
home of the
Generals’
lacrosse
team.

Right: Smith
Field,
occasional
home of the
Washington
and Lee
basebaﬂ
team.
Below: The
W&L tennis
courts,
sometime-
home-field
to the
Generals’
tennis team.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 1 1

File photos
Most of the statistics compiled for the past week-and-a-half involved the words “post-
poned,” “cancelled” and “re-scheduled due to snow.” Because of the icy, snowy, rainy and
simply muddy conditions of the Generals’ respective playing fields this week, baseball,
lacrosse, and tennis teams were forced to take a break from competition.

   

25¢ SALE 25¢ SALE 25¢ SALE

 

 

HT ’ HT
souR   RED KIDNEY
UK 0 LIMIT4
 8 ouNcE  ‘3°z5_ "§':'i:’.§ﬂ:‘.‘t.‘.‘:;‘;" Q

HT
MA€ARONl&  5 iiii”“sVKiI5I‘ii‘sM'xvv§'t*§:i5=§:~?7‘Y

CHEESE DINNER 7&5 O GIIMMI SAVERS Jr. 0
HUNT’S IN THE DELl- BAKERY
TOMATOw,,m.;,;,°"a, ALI. VARIETIES

PASTE 602° DONUTS EA. 025

Prices Effective Throu h March I5, I994

Prices In Ihis Ad Eiiective W cinesdoy, March 9 Through Tue ay M rcit i5,I994 In our Lexington M Stores
On|y.We Reserve Tiie'Rig lTo Limit Quantities. None Soici To Dec ers. We Giodly Accept federal food btomps.

Congratulations
Jennifer c§ha1<er on induction
into Phi {Beta Kappa.
Mag the rest of gour gears
be as successful as gour
gears here at Wéisls.
From gour sisters at

Pi {Beta Phi

  

{Last Week:

I WLax——W&L 21, Bridgewater 2
MLax~Hampden-Sydney 12, W&L 6

Golf——1st in ODAC Invitational

PAGE 12

S

Ellie ﬁling-mm iﬂhi

PORTS

This Week:

Base—-—RandoIph-Macon (dh) 03/11 "‘3f~’7l. ’ ‘
MLax—W&L Tournament 03/ 12-13 'l*~_i*";

WLax—'at Salisbury State 03/11 .17“? .1
WTennis—Denison 03/12 l

   
   

.:"f:"»l.

5!. "LT. 5 -

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS AND TRACK AND FIELD

’se.ud to the eighth--grade 

‘ never sleep. I cannot live?

   
   

Readers 
surveyed

SARAH on 

7.‘

 

 

There comes a time in» 
every editor ’s life whenshe 
must pass on her knowl-» I.
edge and hcrbeloved com-A :.:.j
purer to a worthy soulwho 5 gl
has given his heart and his. .
Thursday nights to the un- J
selfish cause of The Rz'ng-. :
rum Phi. "

in other words, .it’s.3
Steve’s turn. “

So before I leave,xl
thought I would dipback
"into junior-high-ese. Re-=
inerrrbm those notes the .
seventh-~ grade girls would 

gt:y':s‘? You know, “I really‘  A
like you. If you like me; 
check the box A. if y ,
don’t know, check the ho
ll. If you hatelny gut‘
clicclztlie box C.” ,  A ,9
So I have created, j, jt. ‘ 
forms dedicated sportsfarji :
and aficionado of ’ “Sarah ;,  I
on Sports,” the .,first-ever’ ..
Rirsgdurn Phi sports 
reader-opinion‘ surveiy,j;=
with an adolescent twist; '9
{flip it out, if you liylte-,-.rie’,~f A
turn it to the box in-rthe 
University Center; Be.a.,‘_
pal. — .  "
1) Do you like my col-V. .

  
 

 

 

umn? Should I continue,g»;;?
it next yeareven.tl1aufgh;Iv ,
will not have time'.’?,IsTit ‘
that valuable to the'Uni- V ’
varsity community? ‘
(3 Continue it if you

File photo
Senior Pauline Mita heads up Liberty Hall Field with the ball. The Generals
won their first game against conference rival Bridgewater, 21-2, March 10.

|

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team
was supposed to open its 1994 season March 3 at
conference-rival Bridgewater College. Due to poor
field conditions in Harrisonburg, however, the Gen-
erals were given an opportunity to strut their stuff in
front of the home fans.

And strut they did. The two-time Old Dominion
Athletic Conference champions opened up the sea-
son with a 21-2 beating of the Eagles at the Liberty
Hall Fields. The win was the 16th straight for W&L
versus an ODAC opponent.

“We were deﬁnitely not expecting this [easy a
win],” said senior tri-captain Angie Carrington. “We
were hoping to pull together as a team. This was a
great surprise.”

The Generals wasted little time declaring their
intentions to three-peat in the ODAC as junior Lind-
say Coleman scored just 17 seconds into the game.
Thus, a mere 18 seconds of playing time had expired
since their last score against a conference opponent,
Nicole Ripken’s 1993 championship game-winner
versus Roanoke.

Washington and Lee took an 11-1 lead to the half,
with Coleman notching a career—best seven goals in
that time span. Coleman’s previous career-high was
five, which she reached last season in a 22-9 win at
Lynchburg. The three-year starting center netted her
eighth and ninth goals early in the second-halfbeforc
being taken out by head coach Jan Hathorn.

According to Carrington, Coleman’s tremendous
performance was much more than merely being in the
right place at the right time, but knowing when to be
there as well.

“What she did well, besides shoot, was anytime
her defender dropped off her, she knew where to be,”
said Carrington. “That’s part of being a good player.”

Coleman left the game two goals shy of Lisa
Dowling’s single-game school record of 11, set last
year versus Hollins. The nine scores brings her career
total to 53. ‘

Many players agree the greatest frustration in

without it.  
0 Keep writing it‘, if}.
you can think of any better ‘
topics than last year. But ”
stop calling attention‘ to,_itf“ 7 *
with that blatant greysfuff.
O I do not give a d
2) How 110 Y0)‘ .
the sports coverage.‘-HS
too extensive? T6011 V
row? Is there anything;
misslng?. ‘ A. ?  I
0 You are awesom’ .7:
$:,=:ah on Spons.,Te1l__S_§eye

    
  
  
    

   

Agassi,

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

to do it just like you  it..j;j§
OTry harderthansarah 
i:,i.?.r.l., Steve. Here arc‘rny‘"*
suggestions: " ,  '
C) I do not give a s-
3} Did I ever tick"
ofl‘? . i . .
lfl met you, I would: 
O pimp-slap you.  .
0 kiss you and thank. 
you for brightening my life. ; . ,.
kind of like Pol_ly_anr1a.l I A’
0 not recognize .you,}._ ».
so who gives a %$#@? ..  .
4) I like youropinions
on everything but (check 
as many as apply):
C) women’s sports.-
O men’s sports. .9
C) outdoor sports‘.
0 professional sports
C) Olympic sports. I
Osports. ’ ’_ €f};._
~ :0 Tonya Harding; ,, ,_
.3) You w0uld,‘:iltaV-9" ‘
been a real columnist-if: 7*
you had written an an 
ticle about: * ‘ c  
0 Steve.
0 rugby.
Cl co-cd naked
0 Tecmu Selanne. ,
C} Ryne Sandberg (just ‘
hit; 11 rst name, not his base- ,
ball heroics),   .... ..
O.Ron Tugnut_(N_HLj f
goalie, you sports rilliter-is -
ates. Same reason ‘as
Ryno). , 7-I . _ ,
0 Anthony Mazzerelli. _ ,,
(satire deal). I ..: ’  ’ V ’
0 Kathy lreland ‘
0 Jake Bermanfsliair.-‘ 
0 Nancy Kerrigan.,..
6) I think you are:: ;

 
  

    
   
  
   
  

  

  

 

   

It is a good thing that the
weather in other parts of the
country is not as horribleas it
is here. In Florida, Arizona,
and other such havens of
warmth, the spring training
season is in full swing and base-
ball is moving toward opening
day (fortunately, without the
threat of a lock-out, strike,
nuclear war, etc.).

On a serious note, Phillies
first baseman John Kruk sur-
vived a scare recently when he
had a testicle removed. Doc-
tors said that Kruk had a form
of cancer. Apparently, how-
ever, Kruk will recover fully.

Previous to the operation,
Kruk had been experiencing
discomfort in the groin area.
At the time, the pain was at-
tributed to an errant pick off
throw from Mitch Williams
last year.

College basketball contin-
ues to roll toward the National
Collegiate Athletic Associa-
tion tournament. Most of the
major conferences have begun
their post—season tournaments
or, like the Big Ten and the Pac
Ten are beginning to think
about why they don’t have

post-season tournaments.

If the pairings were announced
today, Duke would most likely be
the number one seed in the south-
east regional. Connecticut would
be the top seed in the east, Arkan-
sas in the midwest, and Missouri
in the west. Missouri pulled off

SteVe’s NCAA hopes, dreams;
king of swing, hooks up

Belfour’s (the goalie playing
against the Kings that night,
against whom Gretzky had never
scored) door at 4 a.m. with a bull
horn. The man was reported to
have said, “Hey you hoser, let
Gretzky break the record!”

the un— In other
thinkable s p o r t s
enrouteto  news,
a number . — A n d r c
three na- In other skating news, Agassi, the
tionalrank— - U n i I e d
ing. Norrn N Kerrlgan -Cer . States ten-
Slewafl S tamly has her priorities 2": 5"“
team ran , _ o m c —
through the m the rrght order. times) gets
5‘i§hE‘g:r: Kerrigan will not attend fﬁfte hggﬁj
undefeated the World Champion- up award.
record dur- . Agassi ’S
ing the    rccent par-
l ' mo h —
25.5011. 3 ’ Scheduled “PP€“’“"?e §e..s"loa§..-
lwillre- on Saturday N rght Live. none other
sist the t h a n
urge to B I‘ O 0 k 6
continue Shields.

rambling on about basketball es-
pecially since I did the same thing
last week. Instead, one ofthe best
stories ofthe week came from the
National Hockey League.
Wayne Gretzky has been stuck
on 798 goals now for a while in
his pursuit of Gordy Howe’s
record for career goals. Appar-
ently (according to the last report
I heard), an LA radio station con-
vinced someone to go to Ed

OK, so there’s a little bit of an
age difference, but so what?
Think about it.

Parting Shots-—

Now that Charlotte has
Alonzo Mourning back, maybe
they can start winning some
games. They got off to a good
start by defeating the Phoenix
Suns behind Mourning’s 24
points. Phoenix took out their
frustrations the next day by scor-

Men’s lacross e
loses shocker 

 
    

preparing for the season has been the 2
weather. According to senior tri-captain P3. «
Mita, the team has tried many different thing. -
get ready for play, including practicing in A.
Virginia Horse Center.

“[The weather] has been tough on morale
Mitasaid.“Wc’ve been out there attimesfort *
hours in the rain with our feet freezing.”

Ironically, the Generals have the wcatﬂer
thank for having the Bridgewater game mov ,
to Lexington. where they were able to pick upt
victory on a relatively sunny day.

The Generals, ranked eighth in the pre-st 1
son in Division III by College Sports Magazi37
and seventh by Lacrosse Magazine, got fc
goals from All-American Carrington. A plir .
freshmen, Erika Snyder (three goals) and Am
Shaw (two goals), were also key contributorst
the massacre, which pleased Carrington.

“It was so exciting to see the freshmen pla
together like that,” she said. v

Carrington scored 44 goals last year and he
73 career scores are just four away frorrgthir
place on the W&L all-time goals list. ’

Just like last season, W&L begins its seas
with an ODAC blowout and now looks ahead
Salisbury State on Saturday. The women will u
on the road for that meeting, a matchup they wo
in ’92 by a 15-5 score.

W&l.’s next action will be the much sntic
pated contest with Roanoke College. Ne -
Thursday’s game was to have been the General
home opener before theschedule change of th
Bridgewater game.

W&L has won the last three meetings, all a
which decided either the regular-season or th
ODAC Tournament championship.

Those three games and four-of the las.t fiv
between the rivals were decided by one goa
The intensity, as well as the importance, of th”
game is expected to be no different than th
previous ones.

“Roanoke is a unique team,” said Carringto,
“Its going to take mental preparation, as well 
more of the same hard work.” ‘

 
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
    
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
       
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
  
 

ti

1

#1 6.: '
ing 81 points in the first half
against the much-loved Wash-
ington Bullets.

John Daly has been sober
for14 months and has returned 6
to the Professional Golf Tour.

‘V
5.2 .. .
.,..c......_.....,_.

-wt r r I» -and

. V.‘-7' '

  
      
 
   
   

(Yippee, looked important
enough to put in.)

Just in case anyone cares
(and because I thought it was
cool) Ferrari has returned to
the wonderful world of inter-
national sports car racing.
That ’s even more exciting than
a Big East basketball game.

Tonya Harding continued
her reign atop the sports news
heap. Sooner or later, even
Tonya Hardingwillﬁndaway
to fade from the sports lime-
light (hopefully, may we be
quite so lucky).

In other skating news,
Nancy Kerrigan certainly has
her priorities in the right or-

. der. Kerrigan will not attend

the World Championships
because of a scheduled ap-
pcarance on Saturday Night
Live. What a gal!

Finally, Michael Jordan
made his 30th appearance on
the coverof Sports Illustrated.
Unfortunately for Jordan, this
time Jordan did not get his
normal good press, however.
The caption under the picture
read “Bag it Michael, Jordan
and the White Sox are an em-
barrassment to baseball.

 

 

   

Women’s Swimming
Sophomore Rebekah Prince, competing

O the bee’s knees ‘

O snazzy ‘ ‘

O cheesy

O ditzy

Owho? 1 :-:.=f ,

Never fear, even if I do
‘not continue my ‘column ‘ ‘
when I let Steve take over
my job, I will still have a »
few more glorious weeks ,
as your Sarah on Sports. 8

You, reader, are the true
reasoiz we do what we do
here on your most beloved
campus newspaper. Your »
opinion truly? counts." 55
Please do not:hesi ’t‘
call us with yourproblems,
t:£‘.tIlT limes, your fears; =1

r

  
 

. . c  you have
1 At.» p«..:t>;.u«: you can COUIII.
on: your fiance and your - Cone e March 18
newspaper staff.   7 ~ g ‘

  

in her second National Collegiate Athletic
Association Division III Swimming Cham-
pionships, captured honors in the opening
night of the competition.

Swimming in the 200-yard individual
medley event, Prince was named Honor-
able Mention All-American for her 15th-
placc ﬁnish with a time of 2:14.63.

Princc’s honor is a repeat of last year,
when she was also named to the first-team
All-American roster in the 100-yard IM and
the 200-yard backstroke. She will compete
in the 100- and 200-yard backstroke as well.

Men’s Swimming

Three Washington and Lee swimmers
had hoped their provisional times would be
good enough to go to the National Colle-
giate Athletic Association Division III
Championships, but only one, junior Tony
Diedcrich, will find his way to Williams

Diederich’s time of 1:43.58 in the 200-

Diederich will also

100-yard freestyle events. .

Barely missing the cut—off for Nationals
were junior John Rowe and sophomore Craig
Sears. Rowe was named an All-American last
year, and Washington and Lee has not gone
one year without an All-American swimmer

Baseball

The Washington and Lee baseball team is
resting on its 2-4-1 record for yet another
game. The team has missed six games since
its Mary Washington game Feb. 26, and can
only hope Smith Field will be firm enough on
which to play March 12.

The Generals have a scheduled double-
header versus Randolph-Macon Saturday, an
important Old Dominion Athletic Confer-

since 1975.

ence match-up.

Fortunately, only one of the Generals’

games, an ODAC

   J OCKSHORTS

yard freestyle was the 16th-fastest Division
III time in the nation this year, and his chances
of becoming an All-American are rosy (the

top 16 finishers in the championships are
named All-Americans).

compete in the 50- and

competition versus

Bridgewater, must be made up.

Track and Field

  
   
 
  
 
  
  
    
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

 
 

The men’s and women’s track teams will
compete March 11 (today) in a tri-meet
against Bridgewater and Eastern Menno-
nite. This meet is the first of the Generals’
1994 outdoor season.

The Washington and Lee golf team won
its first competition at the ODAC invita-
tional hosted by Randolph-Macon March10.
Senior Bo Williams was the co-medalist,
shooting 75 on the par—70 course.

The Generals compete next March 12 at
the James Madison Invitational.

Correction

Last week’s women’s swimming story
stated incorrectly that there were no seniors
on the team.

Captains Jeanette Burgess and Kari May
are the two seniors on the Generals’ swim-
ming team. The Phi apologizes for the error.

Golf

Tournament,

Though many of the Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse games for the past two weeks were can-
celled due to weather, the Generals did fit in a heart
breaker versus Bridgewater. In an upset, the W&L
team lost 12-6, even though W&L was ranked ninth
in the USILA Division Ill poll. W&L is now 1-1 head
ing into this weekend’s first Washington and Lee

Swarthmore and Wooster. The championship game
is scheduled for March 13 at 3 p.m. O

  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

 
 

File pto

  
    

  
 
   
    
 
    
   
  
  
  
  

with Alfred (seventh-ranked)

   
   
 

  

