 
  

Washington and Lee
is a peronalid place

 

 V v..-gig-‘ ;

.‘~:x1:.'T‘r~'i, ‘ox’.-"=\_ T-*zL'i~f3't'5

-  1,9919

Men

 
 

x

3 wrestling pins
Pensacola  
in dual meet

 
 

Q-3

 

U112 Einngrtum lﬂlii

UME 93, NO. 16

  
 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Classes iced

    
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 21, 1994

or two days

 

 

 

By EMILY BAKER, YAI3Iz SEDGHI

AND BUNNY WONG
Of thePhi Staff

Washington and Lee shut
down Wednesday and Thursday
for the first time in over 30 years
as a result of bad weather.

“We canceled because of a
combination of concerns about
safety and conserving as much

energy as we can,” said Brian
Shaw, Director of Communica-
tions and Public Relations.

Icy roads and walkways Tues-
day made getting to classes diffi-
cult. Wednesday, University
Presidentlohn D. Wilson decided
thatwasenoughtocancelclasses.

“There’s ice on all the sec-
ondary roads,” said Wilson. “Fac-
ulty and students were having
trouble getting in.”

In addition todangeroustravel
conditions, the university expe-
rienced electrical problems.

“We’re trying to minimize
electricity usage,” said Shaw.
Virginia Power asked all major

- | customers to cut down on elec-

tricity usage. Canceling classes
conserved energy from both light-
ing and heating. To minimize
electricity usage, Evans Dining
Hall operated only during day-
light hours to conserve energy
consumed by electric lighting.
The dining hall used disposable
dishes and utensils to reduce
W€‘§l‘iYl8.:,.

'  I‘ri§pi'te"oftheseefforts,W&L
students and Lexington residents
still experienced power outages.
Virginia Power tried to keep out-
ages down to 30 minute incre-
ments, rotating the outages be-

  

tween blocks of 10,000 people

Photo by Ethan Krupp, The Ring-tum Phi

. l‘he Colonnade looks like an icy ghost town with very few students, faculty or staff members venturing on to the Hill during the two day snow break.
' ower problems and frigid weather teamed up to give students their first snow days in about 30 years. But ice alone is not enough to close W&L for
a third straight day. Light snow last night covered the ice and made walking and driving conditions even more treacherous than they had been in
1 few days. But Virginia Power said normal power use was again possible and classes resumed today.

  
 
 
  

every two to three hours.
Virginia Power takes several
steps before resorting to power
outages to conserve energy, said
spokeswoman Karen Russell.

First, the company reduces the
customers’ voltage by three to
five percent. The decrease is
minimal enough that it “is not
noticeable to customers,” said
Russell.

The company then appeals to
the community as a whole to
reduce its power consumption.
After that, it asks speciﬁc public
volunteers to cut consumption,
as it did W&L. If this still does
not reduce power usage ad-
equately, the company then turns
to the power outages.

Virginia is using record-
breaking amounts of power this
winter, said Russell.

“Although we have no num-
bers yet,” said Russell, “the power
consumed Saturday, January 15
broke all previous existing
records.”

The power situation is im-
proving, said Russell. After ro-
tating the power outages among
blocks of 10,000 people every
two hours, the company was able
to reduce the blocks to 3,000
people every eight hours.

Shaw said he did not know
whether upcoming vacations
would be affected by the two-
day cancellation.

The weather has also post-
poned the Founders Day-ODK
Convocation. The speakers had
not made it into town before the
university shut down.

“We caught them all before
they got on their planes,” said
Shaw. “We haven’t rescheduled
the convocation yet. We’re still
trying to get back to those
people.”

Both the Leyburn Library and
the law Library opened from 8
a.m. to 5 p.m. Wednesday.
Leyburn had the same shortened
hours Thursday, while the Law

Library was shut down, accord-

B See ICE, page 10

   
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  

By MELIssA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

Last weekend was another of drunken brawls and
‘ate-night arrests for several Washington and Lee stu-
cuts.

Recording to a Sigma Nu brother, a conﬂict at the
Sigma Nu fraternity house around 3 a.m. Sunday resulted
in a broken window and the arrest of a junior Phi Delta
Theta member. The Phi Delt had been asked to leave the

i unior Sigma Nu member, who asked not to be identified,
went outside the house and the two began to shove and
_)unQh each other.

Several members of the Phi Delt house tried to inter-
./ene. The Phi Delt house is currently on critical proba-
tion due to an incident that occurred earlier in the year.

The Phi Delt broke free from his brothers and punched
.hrough the bedroom window of Sigma Nu house mother

Sigma Nu house following a party. When he refused, a ~

Fights result
I three

arrests

“I was awake and I looked out the window to see what was
happening,” Coxey said. “Glass fell all over the chair where I
sit. If I hadn’t been in bed I would have been in that chair.”

Coxey said she decided not to intervene in the ﬁght at first.
After the window was broken, however, she called the Lexing-
ton Police Department and W&L Security. ,

“I wanted to press charges, but the police and W&L Security
just wouldn’t do anything,” Coxey said.

Coxey said she had asked the police to serve a warrant to the
Phi Delt offender.

“Generally we let the property ownerdo that (press charges),”
said Lexington Chief of Police Bruce M. Beard, Jr.

Beard said in this case, police decided to let W&L Security
handle the matter.

“It involved university property,” Beard said.

Coxey said she was not sure who would pay for the repair of
the window. She said the Phi Delt came Wednesday to
apologize to her and to patch up the window.

b See FIGHTS, page 10

The two sides of
the Honor System

By MICHELLE BRIEN, THOMAS HESPOS AND FRANCESCA KEFALAS
of the Phi Staff

On May 1], 1992, Washington
and Lee junior Cynthia Kowalyk saw
what she thought was a breach of the
Honor System in her French 213
class.

Freshman Elizabeth McCord had
just told Professor Russell Knudson
she had completed a lab assignment.
Her paper showed she had marked
each segment complete.

But Kowalyk and the rest of the
class knew that the tape they had
been assigned to listen to had seg-
ments missing. McCord could not
have done all the segments she said

ON MY HONOR I HAVE
NEITHER GIVEN NOR

  RECEIVED ANY
UNACKNOWLEDGED AID...

Beverly Coxey.

  

    
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 

  

 

File Art

   

The FIJI owl.

 
 

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

It ain’t over ’til it’s over.

Or at least not until President John
Wilson reviews the appeal.

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity’s sus-
pension by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee was effective immediately after
SAC’s Monday decision and is set to
last 18 months. But there is still a
chance that Wilson will return the case
to SAC for review, said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison.

“An appeal is not a rehearing of the
case,” said Howison. Howison said the
fraternity must have grounds for an
appeal.

FIJI President Ralph “Moke” Wolfe
said the fraternity plans to appeal on
the grounds that the punishment was
too harsh.

  

   

FIJ I plans appeal to Wilson

“We’re appealing because we think
the punishment should fit the crime,”
Wolfe said. “It was hazing, but it was
minor. Given the severity of the lFC’s
penalty, we thought suspension was
too severe.”

Interfraternity Council President
Curt Smith would not say what the
IFC’s punishment was, but said that it
was “similar to that of SAC.”

“The less we say the fairer it is to
them,” said Smith.

Wolfe also cited the danger to the
fraternity’s existence at Washington
and Lee if the sentence is upheld.

“We won’t be able to rush until
1995,” Wolfe said. “Then we will only
have 12 members if everyone stays.
it’s too expensive to maintain a house
with only 12 members paying dues.”

D See FIJI, page 10

she had.

Kowalyk was left with a couple of
difficult questions: Did McCord’s
actions constitute an Honor Viola-
tion? Should she be reported to the
Executive Committee?

“I thought about it,” said Kowalyk.
“I consulted with friends of mine.
They said it was my responsibility to
at least tell someone. So I did decide
to do it.”

“They said if there was no wrong-
doing she would never even know of
it being reported,” she said.

One week later, McCord got a call
from EC Secretary Caroline Wight.
The EC asked McCord to come to a
meeting that Thursday, and assigned
her two law student advocates.

“They told me, ‘Don’t worry, this
is merely a fact-finding,” said
McCord. “But that was it for me right
there.”

At the end of a four-hour closed
hearing, McCord was found guilty of
an Honor Violation and told to with-
draw from the university.

“I found out she was found guilty

the next day when I saw her with her
parents,” said Kowalyk. “I assumed
she was saying good-bye.”

But McCord opted to appeal the
decision in an open trial.

“My first reaction was that I was
not strong enough to take it to an
open hearing,” said McCord. “But I
thought‘lcan’tjustletthisdie,know-
ingthat I never intended to do wrong.’
Sol thought ifl walk away knowing
that, I might as well fight it.”

“A few days later, I was contacted
about the open trial,” said Kowalyk.
“They called me into look over my
testimony, and asked if I remem-
bered anything else. It happened
quickly.There was an announcement
the next day on the Contact board.”

McCord was again found guilty
in the open trial and was expelled
from the university.

McCord’s case illustrates that
W&L’sHonorSystem—whatmany
say is the university’s foundation ——

 

is suffering some cracks. Some think
she is the victim of an unfair system
— particularly members of
McCord’s family, who have strong
ties to W&L.

Others, including Kowalyk, say
McCord’s case illustrates that the
Honor System works. To them, pres-
sures on the Honor System are the
result of students who simply don’t
take it seriously enough.

As a result of the controversy
surrounding McCord’sdismissal,the
Executive Committee is reviewing
the Honor System this year. The re-
view is expected to focus on what
some say are the system’s weak-
nesses:

O W&L has no clear definition of
honor or breach of honor.

OAccording to honor trial law
advocates, W&L has the only judi-
cial system in the country in which

DSee EC, page 7

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World  

Neo-Nazis convicted

Two neo-Nazis were convicted of and sentenced for
aggravated assault Tuesday. They attacked a United States
Olympic luge team member after yelling racial slurs at his
black teammate. The two “skinheads” are the first of seven
defendants to be tried in the Oct. 29 incident.

Relief plane shot

A plane bringing food, medicine and other relief sup-
plies to war-torn Sarajevo was shot at twice Thursday. The
German plane was hit about two miles from the airport. No
one was injured in the incident. It is not known who shot at
the plane.

The Nation

Quake rocks California

Aftershocks continue to rock the San Fernando Valley
following Monday’s earthquake. The quake, which mea-
sured 6.6 on the Richter scale, hit at 4:31 a.m. Pacific time.
Reports count 44 people dead and 3,762 injured. The quake
collapsed buildings, snapped freeways, damaged gas lines
and disrupted utility service as far north as Canada. South-
ern California has been declared a disaster area.

  

Iran-Contra report impli-
cates Reagan, Bush

A seven—year investigation into the Iran-Contra scandal
revealed that although former President Ronald Reagan
may not have violated any law, he did make it simpler for
others to conduct illegal activities. The two-volume report
declared Reagan’s aides withheld information about the
scandal. The report suggests the congressional commit-
tees investigating the affair should have considered im-
peaching Reagan. Reagan, former Attorney General Edwin
Meese, former President Bush have denied the allega-
tions.

Faulkner to attend Citadel

Shannon Faulkner became the first woman to attend
day classes at the all-male Citadel military college in
Charleston, S.C., Thursday. Chief Justice William
Rhenquist lifted an order which prevented her from at-
tending classes while her lawsuit is pending. The Citadel
claims her presence will destroy the 151-year-old college’s
military environment and educational mission.

Inman gives up nomination

Former CIA deputy director Bobby Inman withdrew as
President Clinton’s nominee for defense secretary Tues-
day. Inman chose to withdraw his name because of alleged
attempts to distort his record, character and reputation.
Senate hearings were set to begin next week. I

Cold paralyzes nation

Snow, sleet and freezing cold have ravaged the nation
since last weekend. The cold snap has left 15 people dead
nationwide and caused hundreds of highway accidents
and power and water outages. Frigid conditions and snows
are expected to continue through next weekend. Minne-
sota and North Dakota are fighting temperatures of 32
degrees below zero and 92 degrees below zero without
wind-chill. Temperatures in areas of New Hampshire
have plummeted to 100 degrees below zero.

The State

Knick lawsuit rejected

The civil rights lawsuit filed against Lexington and
Police Chief Bruce Beard over a policeman’s fatal shoot-
ing of his wife was rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court.
Lisa Knick’s brother filed the suit on behalf of her estate
and her two children. She was killed by her husband,
former Lexington police officer Jerry Knick, at home
while he was on duty Sept. 29, 1990. Knick was convicted
of second-degree murder and sentenced to 10 years in
prison.

Sports

Gillooly arrested in
Kerrigan case

Tonya Harding’s ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, was ar-
rested Thursday and charged with conspiracy in the Jan. 6
attack on Nancy Kerrigan. Harding’s bodyguard, Shawn
Eric Eckardt, and alleged attacker Shane Minoaka Stant
and Derrick Smith have already been charged in the case.
Harding was questioned by the FBI and maintains her
innocence, although an affidavit given by Eckardt has
linked her to the alleged plot.

 

  

Sorority Rush nets 108 Wome  

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

One hundred and eight women
pledged a sorority last Friday after a
week’s worth of Rush activities.

Panhellenic Council President Laura
Clark had mixed feelings about this
year’s Rush. .

After Preference Night Thursday,
Jan. 13, the Panhellenic Council set a
quota of 29 bids per sorority. The origi-
nal quota was 28 bids per sorority, but
the number was changed at the last
minute to 29. Incoming Council Presi-
dent Lise Brown said the number was
increased so some women would not
“fall through the cracks.”

Kappa Kappa Gamma, Chi Omega,
and Kappa Alpha Theta each received
29 pledges, while Pi Beta Phi received
22

.“We were all disappointed with Pi

Phi not doing as well as they would '

have liked, but as a whole I feel every-
one did a good job and there was a lot
of cooperation among sororities,” said
Clark.

Pi Phi President Christine
Grandinetti said the sorority’s relatively
short time on campus (three years) may
have had some effect on the pledge
numbers.

“We attribute the low number to
concerns the freshmen may have had
about Pi Phi’s newness,” Grandinetti
said. “They may look and see that other

The Rinr -tum Phi Janu

sororities have been here longer and
are more established.”

Sororities that don’t meet the quota
have two options: they can offer “snap
bids” or they can go through continu-
ous open bidding. Snap bids can be
extended to anyone on that sorority’s
bid list who did not accept a bid else-
where. Continuous bidding is used to
extend bids to women who were not
originally on that sorority ’s bid list and
who did not accept a bid elsewhere.

Freshman Erin Dougheity would
like to see a change in the structure of
sorority Rush next year.

“l wish it (sorority Rush) was more
like the guy’s Rush, where you got
several bids,” said Dougherty. ‘‘I didn’t
like the sorority Pref Night, where you

     
   
    
  
   
  
   
  

21 "

ranked your choices and then you.
only one bid. With the current wa
seems you either get all or nothin

Brown is looking to the sor
governing body as a way of bols'
the current system. ’

“lthinkweshouldfocusonst n
ening our Panhellenic system,” Br
said. “We want to make it more
leadership body for the sororitie

Clark said no other national s
ties are currently considering -
zation of W&L, nor are any so
being sought out.

“Our top priorities are to work
the problems with the sororities
have now,” Clark said. “We w
everyone getting full quota bef
we expand.”

 

Machines to
sell stamps

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Soon Washington and Lee students will not have
to hike to the Post Office for stamps.

A stamp machine outside Fairfax Lounge in the
University Center will sell a number of mailing prod-
ucts, such as stamps, envelopes, and post cards. The
machine has been there for about a month.

Director of University Services Jim Johndrow said
Buildings and Grounds has to install electricity before
the machine can start vending. B&G however, has
their hands full making pathways safe after the recent
storm left inches of ice on the ground.

“Our B&G people have to put electricity in,” said
Johndrow. “As soon as they do, we’ll let the Post
Office know.”

Once electricity is installed, the Post Office will
stock the machine. Johndrow warned against putting
bills larger than $5 in the machine.

“The machine will only make change for a $5 bill.
People should make sure they put in nothing larger
than a $5 bill, or they will not get the correct change,”
he said.

An additional machine was placed in the co—op but
was later removed.

“We originally wanted to put another machine in
the bookstore/co-op area, but there wasn’t enough
room,” said Johndrow. “The machine was bigger
than we thought.”

Students will have to make do with the lone ma-
chine in the University Center, which, for many
people, is still closer than the Post Office.

Freshman to
start program

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Freshman class president Alvin Townley is tired of
seeing trash cans overflowing with newspapers and
cans.

That is why he wants to organize a recycling
program for the freshman dorms and Gaines.

He said recycling makes sense and all major uni-
versities across the country have such programs.
Virginia state colleges are required by law to have a
recycling program.

He said that the recycling program he envi-
sions would require minimal effort from the student
body.

“I think everyone realizes the need to recycle,”
said Townley. “lt wouldn’t require a great deal of
effort from anybody.”

Townley said he met with Dean of Students David
Howison and Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life
Dennis Manning. He said he felt encouraged by their
enthusiasm and their willingness to help. ‘

Townley said the cost of the recycling program
will be low, and there will be no outside organizations
involved.

Townley said he sees tremendous support from
students for the recycling program.

“They want something done, about it,” said
Townley.

Randolph Hare, assistant supervisor of Buildings
and Grounds, said he met with Townley, Howison
and Manning. He said they agreed that B&G does not
have the resources to pick up containers in the dorms.

Hare said B&G will provide recycling containers
with the proper logo telling what goes in them.

Townley said he has been working on the recy-
cling program since October and predicts it will be
ready in mid—February.

“Recycling is not a liberal idea or a conservative
idea,” said Townley. “lt’s just something that makes
sense and requires no great effort to do.”

By JAY WHITE
Phi Staff Writer

“The Dating Game” has
touched down at Washington
and Lee.

Junior Chris Albert is the
mastermind behind the produc-
tion and said over 100 people
signed up for the television
event

“The Dating Game” is to be
a bi-monthly feature on Cable
2. It will be filmed alternating
weeks and will air on Wednes-
day, Thursday, and Friday.

Albert and a production team
consisting of juniors Stacy
Bogert, Becky Crow, Trisha
Coughlin, Pina Benincasa, and
Cathy Gartin also produce
W&L’s “Entertainment Spot-

Game”.

partment.

Find your dream
date on Cable 2 J

light” every other week in the
same time slot as “The Dating

Albert, who is the host and
producer of the Dating Game,
raised money for the program
by getting sponsors from local
businesses and the W&L Din-
ing Service. Albert is doingthe
show as an independent study
project for the Journalism De-

This week’s show was taped
Sunday and featured senior
Doug Kaufman, sophomore
Cole Constanzo, and sopho-
more Shelby Lamar vying for a
date with senior Heather
Aussiker. The show was taped
in front ofa live audience.

“No laugh track was used. It
was the real thing,” said Albert.

Aussiker asked the bachelor
a series ofquestions , includin
how they would go about r‘
joying her if she were an i 4
cream sundae.

Kaufman responded is
there a cherry involved?”

Aussiker chose Shelby
Lamar as her date for a candlelit
steak dinner on the balcony of
the Dining Hall, complete with
a waiter. -

Albert said the show’s r-
pose is to increase Cable 2’s
viewership and to involve more
of the W&L student body and
the Lexington community.

lf you would like to be a
contestant on “The Dating
Game” call Stacy Bogert at 4&2-
4149 or Chris Albert at 462-
4117.

City has financial woes

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Contributing Writer

Lexington is known for its wealth, but beneath
the facade of a quaint college town lies an economi-
cally strapped city.

Of Virginia’s 136 cities and counties, Lexington
ranks 17th*on the fiscal stress index and 107th in

. median household income, reports a recent study by

the United States Census Bureau and the Virginia
Commission on Local Government.

“That’s why we’re always looing for some other
revenue source,” said City Manager John Ellestad,
whether it be a new business or personal property
tax. Lexington is not in bad shape, he said, but it does
have a very tight budget. The loss of one revenue
source affects the city greatly.

The fiscal stress index is determined by resi-
dents’ incomes, the locality’s true real estate values,
taxation and borrowing power. The more a locality
lacks these things, the higher it ranks on the index.

Lexington’s real estate values and borrowing
power are healthy, but its residents’ incomes and
ability to tax city property severely limit the city’s
revenue thus heightening its fiscal stress.

Virginia’s median household income is $33,328,
according to 1990 data. The median income in
Lexington is $21,361, and is $24,955 in Rockbridge
County. While both are below the state average,
Lexington’s was higher than the county‘s until re-
cently. For years, the afﬂuent lived within the city
limits, while the poor lived in the county. As suburbs
have sprouted beyond city parameters, Lexington
has lost many middle- and upper-class families to
the hilltops and has lost their tax dollars to the
county.

The city is further hampered by its inability to
annex, or absorb, county property into the city
limits. in 1985, the city forever waived its right to
annex county land undera state agreement.

At the time, said Ellestad, Lexington was looking
to expand both north and south. The county was
prepared to ﬁght. in the face of a long, expensive
annexation battle with no guarantees, the city en-
tered into an agreement with the county. Lexington
can not annex, and the county makes a financial
payment to the city each year based on tax rates and
the county’s tax revenue.

The agreement does not generate as much in-
come for Lexington as the fast-food restaurants;
Wal-Mart and upper income families would if were
they were inside city limits, but the yearly payment
is crucial to Lexington’s budget. Last year’s $543,000

contribution comprised one-tenth of the general fun
budget, said Ellestad.

City Commissioner of Revenue Courtney Bak
thinks this payment is fair.

“Obviously all those things are on the pararﬂete»
of Lexington, because Lexington is here,” she sai

She and Ellestad both said the city deserves t
compensation for the services it provides to t
county. The revenue helps the city to maintain itsel »

“We are always coincerned about the revenue i
Lexington,” said Baker. “We are always watchf
and very concerned that we able to maintaﬁ o

locality, the services we provide, and the good schoo "A-

we have.” z

The yearly county payment helps to offset th
money Lexington loses with its inability totax Wash
ington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute prop
erty. Lexington is 2.5 square miles. Fifty-eight pe
cent of city land is tax—exempt property. ad 4
percent of that land belogs to the two colleges. Th
other nine percent belongs to the city, churches, o
other tax—exempt organizations. From its 42 perce
of taxable land, Lexington brings in approximate].
$1.6 million in revenue. Were the city able to doubl
this amount with revenue from the school propertie
said Ellestad, Lexington’s financial troubles woulr
be over. '

W&L and VMI do make yearly grant paymentst
the city, known as PILOT, or payment lieu of taxe »
W&L contributed around $100,000 last year, sai
UniversityTreasurer Lawrence Broomall.The scho »
bases its grant on a flat amount of $40,000, th
estimated property tax on its fraternity houses, an
one-half the estimated property tax on faculty an
staff housing.

Broomall said if the university acquires any cit
property in the future, the university will grant 10
percent of the property tax to the city each year.

Ellestad said he hopes the schools won’t buy an
more city property.

“We don’t want them buying up more city gro
erty because it takes it off the tax roles,” he said.

The loss of a revenue source threatens Lexongton’.
well-being.

Meanwhile, the city is trying to make the most 0
the property it has The Lexington Downtown Devel
opment Association, said Ellestad, is helping to at
tract both local business patrons and tourists. .

“We’re just trying to maximize the economi
potential downtown,” he said. “LDDA is the ke_
component ofthat. Our philosophy is that business
men know the best way to try to promote and expan
business. We let them take the lead.”

 

Sledding, anyone?

 

A blanket of snow covers the lawn in front of Morris House, making students nostalgic for their Flexible Flyers.

1;...“

 

  
   

Students show school spirit and inginuitg in
personalized license plates around Campus

‘Bl
'ETlIAN ‘ll. ‘liilUl’l’
TIII TEATUKES ‘EDITOR

Any possible way to display school spirit on your license plate is fair game
at Washington and Lee University.

Some V of the 600,000 vanity plates on the road in Virginia are here in
Lexington, F "" ‘ , _._

Since personalized plateswere-~intr6'd1tced in Virginia in 198'} , many-"students
have takenadvantage of‘the program for only $10 above the cost of're‘gistration.

In addition to letters and numbers, people may select a dash, a space, or an
ampersand, which is a very popular symbol on W&L plates.

Some students choose a plate with the W&L crest instead of a seventh letter
on their plates.. This option costs an additional $25 a year.

Sean Garrity of the Public Information Office of the Virginia Department of
Motor Vehicles said after “I000 of the crest plates are sold, ﬁfteen dollars of the
twenty-ﬁve will go to the school.”

Garrity said the crest plates are available for most Virginia schools and some
out-of-state schools if the demand is great enough.

“There is one for Penn State,” said Garrity.

Out—of-state schools do not receive any money from the cost of the plates.

Of course, some people choose to simply use their vanity plates to express
something personal about themselves , such as their intials, their name, or just
some off—the-wall ironic comment about the conditions surrounding them.

So, when you get you own car, go ahead and spend the extra few dollars and
show your creative way of expressing Washington and Lee University in seven
letters or less.

All photos by
Ethan H. Krupp

.1;

»1t;;!t")v‘J l«<';.'

I

PAGE 4

 

The Cassatt String Quartet will perform during Sonoklect this year.
This year Sonoklect is commemorating the 75th birthday of Leonard
Berstein. It will also feature “Recitatives and Ariosos” by Henryk
Gorecki. Several other guest performers will also play.

One Acoustic Evening supports charities at Lenfest arday°

From Staff Reports

Local musicians will present a benefit concert called
“One Acoustic Evening” on Saturday, Jan. 22 at 7:30 pm in
Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts.

Catholic Campus Ministry sponsors the event to raise
money for the Rockbridge Area Relief Association and
Total Action Against Poverty’s “Christmas in April” com-
munity service project. Donations of $5, $3 for students,
will be collected in the lobby and turned over to these

W&LIF E

  

By Hillary Olson
Phi Assitant Features Editor

The fourth annual Sonoklect festival of new
music, a four-day event featuring prominent
guest composers and artists, will be on campus
January 26-29. The festival, organized by mu-
sic professor Paul Brantley, Artistic Director of
the program, includes the prominent Cassatt
Quartet, considered one ofthe best string quar-
tets in the world.

This year’s performances commemorate the
75th birthday season of world-famous com-
poser and conductor of Leonard
Bernstein, composer of such
works as “West Side Story,” who
died in 1990. Brantley actually
studied music with Bernstein,
and he said that for him the com-
memoration holds special mean-
ing.

Brantley has either direct or
indirect relationships with all of
this year’s artists and he said
their “totality represents a spe-
cial type of esprit” that is domi-
nating contemporary music.
Brantley said in the new music
world “up is down and down is
up” as different genres mix and
experiment with each other. He
said the result is a fun and eclectic, “more hip”
style of music that he hopes to capture in this
year’s Sonoklect.

The festival will be different this year, said
Brantley who replaces Dr. Margaret Bouwer as
director, because it is geared more to the stu-
dents than the community.

The name “Sonoklect” was an invention of
past director Brouwer, and combines the words
“sonic” and “eclectic” to capture the spirit of
the annual festival. The subtitle of this year’s

 

tf

Highlighting this year’s lineup is Vicki Pratt Keating
from Charlottesville, winner of two Washington Area Mu-
sic Awards for “Best Female Vocalist” and “Best Album”
(Blue Apples). The guitarist/singer has been gaining recog-
nition in the Washington Post and Austin Chronicle for her
self-styled music and lyrics. She blends avant folk and pop
original music in her England, Scotland and Ireland tour in
April and May.

Bill McCorkle, director of the Rockbridge Chorus and
music minister for the Lexington Presbyterian Chorus, will
perform on piano.

positions on guitar.

 

Brantley

’96 from Berwyn, PA will perform together original com-

Associate Pastor of Lexington Presbyterian Church Lee
Zehmer will sing original songs accompanied by his guitar.

“Strumming Dick” Sessoms, who works in the Develop-
ment Office, will sing songs he learned while traveling
through Ireland and rural America.

After a brief intermission, James and Carol Elizabeth
Leva will sing Appalachian ballads with guitar and fiddle
accompaniment. Leva served as music director of the Lime
Kiln Theater, where the couple has performed. Both are

Sonoklect plays Lenfest

Theannual festival of musical boundaries returns

concert, added by Brantley, is “Musical
Mandalas.” A mandala, he said, is a Hindu
word meaning “magic circle,” used in contem-
porary language to signify the full and com-
plete self. Brantley chose the title because he
said it communicated the intensely personal
and magical new expressive type of music that
he hopes will permeate “Musical Mandalas.”

The main attraction, the all-female Cassatt
Quartet, which takes its name after the Ameri-
can painter Mary Stevenson Cassatt, has rela-
tionships with all three of this year’s guest
composers, Tina Davidson, Eleanor Hovda and
Andrew Waggoner.

The first event, to be held on
Wednesday, January 26 at 4 pm is
an informal meeting at the Lenfest
Center to greet the composers.
The group will play a little musicas
well, said Brantley. Brantley em-
phasized the rare opportunity the
community would have at this
event to “ask the living and breath-
ing composers what makes them
tick.”

Thursday, January 27 at 10 am
is an open rehearsal with the guest

composers and the Cassatt Quar-
tet in DuPont Auditorium.
Brantley said the rehearsal would
give the public the chance to see
the interaction between compos-
ers and the performers of their music. He said,
“Imagine having the chance to sit down with
Bach or Beethoven and discuss their music
with them.” He said the open rehearsal is a rare
opportunity for both performer and composer.

That night at 8 pm is the quartet’s concert
featuring the music of Davidson, Hovda,
Waggoner as well as Brantley in the Lenfest
Center.

On Friday, January 28 at 8 pm is another
concert featuring the music of guest compos-

Bill Schieken, law student from Richmond, will perforrri
some original rock anthems, accompanied by fellow la ‘
students Eric “Tiny E” Reeves on piano, Mark Cath 0
guitar and Brad Rolston on cello.

Leslie Tucker will sing with Jim Brown on guitar ant
Lee Sauder on blues harp.

The concert will conclude with the Greenhouse Defect
a regional peppy band which performs swing, traditiona
and “Dawg music.” Lew Prichard from Lewisburg wil
perform on vocals and mandolin, Lee Sauder will pla\
harmonica, Dart Newhall will be on bass, and Burr DatQwil

    
  
  
  
   
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

9

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21,199

ers, this time performed by members cf th
quartet with guest artists Deborah Chodacki o
clarinet, Steven Heyman and Arlene Shrut o
piano. Chodacki teaches at the Julian School 0
Music. Heyman is a highly acclaimed pianis 
who lives in Syrcause, NY. Shrut’s piano ac
companiment was heard in Lenfest earlier thi
year when she performed with Brantlﬁy o
cello at his recital in September. _
The final event will be Saturday, January 2
at 8 pm with a concert commemoratin
Bernstein and featuring the “Recitatives an
Ariosos” of Henryk Gorecki in the Lenfes
Center for the Performing Arts.

Right:
Deborah
Chodackion
will play the
clarinet with
the Cassatt
Quartet on
Friday night
at the
Lenfest
Center for
the Perform-
ing Arts.

    
  

Left:
Steve
Heyman wi
play the
piano with
the Cassatt
Quartet on
Friday ngh
as part of
Sonoklect at
the Lenfest
Center for
the Perform-
ing Arts .

O

     
    
 
 

  
 
 
 

   
      
  
   
   
   
   
 

  

organizations. Tom Mason, ’94, from Pittsburgh, PA, and Andy Rice, well—known in old-time music circles. accompany on guitar.

Apartment for Rent
4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.
2 1/2 miles west of town. Only $175 per bedroom.

Kerr ’s Creek House For Rent
Clean, 4 Bedroom, 2 1/2
bath, $800/mo. Available

June 1st. 8 min from W&L

' l ’ C 463-5452 0
Call Tom 464-8628 mqulre ﬁe‘ y S Omer
., if
Varner & Pole
Specializing in Unfurnished .

Furniture &Shades '

 

19 S. Randolph St.
Lexin ton, VA 463-2742
ew Location!

1 994 Chi Omega pledge class

 

 RUISE-JOBS ,2:
Students Needed!
Earn 552,000+ per month + world
- travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.) working for

Cmise Ships or Tour Companies.
Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time
employment available.

  
  

 

,si<-43% 3..

30-50% WINTER SALE.
Don’t You Dare Go Bare

Molly Lawson
Holly Layman

Ashley Amini
Elizabeth Bahn

For

—»q--..+p-w..,——;,._,..--- - »

 

Susan Baldwin Laura Marshall g‘“n§j?§j“,;;$;§’;;§,j:jf,“;’j;U
Stephanie DallVechia Bridget McCoy ‘M’ ““‘°“8 “M53”  .
Stephanie Fabrizio Susan McMurry
Megan F lohr Sadaf Moradi -if .- . _. L‘
Allison F oote Kelly Naro 5 J "  A
Sasha Hartman Kathleen Quirk .1) '-
Alicia Hazlehurst Becky Rowe
Callie James Nicole St. Martin . ;
Shannon jamieson Melissa Sawyer   11- ..
Amy Jones Emily gmith Stonewall .';"t£L)rtial;5tggﬂZ|ping Center
Olga Kryuchenkova Joanna Soto 463-9800

ﬁrikfrﬁrdanuary Specialsikfrfrfr

Cassette Singles - $2.49 each, large selection "'
ikikikfrﬁikrkrkﬁfrfrikrk
All T-Shirts - $2 off as marked
7i‘t'72r7.“s'7i‘r<.“4'7.“t'72i'7’,‘t'i‘r7ﬁ'7k‘£‘4'7.“r
Buy any full-length CD and get $2.00 off each F‘
consecutive one
Or
Buy any full-length cassette and get $1.00 off each
consecutive one.
rkikikrkﬂrrkikikfrﬁskﬁik

99¢ Rentals in Foreign and Hunting Sections
Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m.,
Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

Ashley La Forge Erika Van Helden

Lindsay Wills

[_‘,‘.l

 

 

Th! Ring-tum Phi, January 21,1994

W&LIF E

Want to travel and ciiscuss  as a job?

Then Work for the Admisssons Office like recent alumni

By
Kathleen Quirk
Phi Staff Writer

§ome seniors, finding it too diffi-
cult to leave Lexington, simply stay
another year or two. They aren’t trying
to finish P.E. requirements —- they are
going to work for Washington and Lee
admissions.

Julia Kozak, Associate Director of
Adﬁissions, calls the alumni, “a im-
portant arm of the admissions office.”
She says they usually have one or two
graduating seniors as Admissions

V Counselors.

Currently Bill Avoli and Phil Spears,
both ’93 graduates, work in admis-
siorj Avoli applied for the job be-
cause he had been a tour guide with the

Student Recruitment Committee and
had friends working in the office. ‘‘I
was looking for something to do for a
year or two before grad school,” he
says. “I had a good experience here,
and I like talking to the juniors and
seniors in high school, letting them
know about it and trying to get them
interested in W&L.”

Spears says he took the job because,
“I love W&L and Lexington, I knew
people in the ofﬁce, that it would be a
fun place to work, and exciting travel
was involved.” He says his work in
admissions is a stepping stone for later
work in education.

Admissions counselors spend the
summer conducting interviews. In fall,
they also travel on recruitment trips,
visiting high schools and hosting
eveningprogramswithregional alumni.
Spears says the travel is his favorite
part f the job. “I give it a thumbs up.
The travel really was fantastic. There
are a lot ofinteresting people out there,

and they’re very generous and hospi-
table.”

In the winter, the admissions coun-
selors read applicant’s ﬁles. “Reading
a couple thousand applications is
tough,” said Spears. “It’s really hard to
"pick the top thirty percent.”

“The best part about the job is that
we’re involved in the process almost as
much as anybody else,” said Avoli.
“We’re thrown in pretty quickly with
much responsibility.”

“You kind ofwonder what your ﬁle
and [recommendations] said, and how
the school liked your application,” said
Spears. Both he and Avoli said they
have seen themselves in applicants.

According to Kozak, the students
they hire to usually stay about two
years . Spears said, “There is a good
chance I’ll be here another year unless
an excellent job offer comes up.” But
Rob Aliff, ’91, is in his third year
working with admissions. He started
working as an Admission Counselor,

but is now Assistant Director of Ad-
missions, in charge of the Honor Schol-
arship and other special recruitment
weekends. “I do enjoy working here
very, very much,” he says. “I really
enjoy meeting prospective students,
introducing people to Washington and
Lee. You can almost see it in their eyes
when the realize what a special place it
is. It would be difficult to be an admis-
sions counselor at any other school I
wouldn’t know so well.”

Since he recently married, he may
stay another year or so, or he may move
on to graduate school. This year’s se-
niors were freshman when he was a
senior, and he notices that, “The longer
I stay, the farther I get from student
life — I’m almost more of a townie
now.”

But apparently these recent alumni
succeed in their jobs. According to
Kozak, “They are quite good. We get
rave reviews from othercolleges about
the effectiveness of our alumni.”

I. .5
itBMlSSl’3.*iS
artist

The Gilliam House, home of the Admissions Office.

about Washington and Lee and win FD tickets

.“ ,“,’._‘ p ‘_ p
 ‘ at

'5‘

5'5

By
Ethan H. Krupp
Phi Features Editor

Horse” Lee.

The Dining Hall staff gave away a pair of
Fancy Dress tickets for free this week. On
Wednesday, January 19, Betsy Green, ’97,
won a free pair of Fancy Dress tickets for being
the student with the most correct answers in the
Dining Hall Founders Day Trivia Contest. Green
answered 17 of the 20 questions correctly.

The questions, compiled by University His-
torian and professor of history 1. Taylor Sand-
ers, asked for obscure bits of information about
Robert E. Lee and his family.

Robert E. Lee married Mary Anna

Randolph Custis.

Lee’s was born in the Stratford House in
Westmoreland County of Virginia.
Lee’s father was nicknamed “White Horse”

1 he Lee House, built during Lee’s Presidency

Harry Lee.

Lee’s brother was

of his life.

Lucy Long was Lee’s second horse. His first
was Traveller.

The most famous biographer
of Lee was Douglas Freemans
who wrote a four volume history

Confederate Army, but he never wore more

than two stars, the rank of Major General.

Stephen Vincent Benet was the first to call

Lee’s son, George Washing-

Mildred.

West Point.

size shoe.

nicknamed “Black

Lee died in 1870.
Lee was second in his class at

In modern shoe sizes, Lee would wear a 6.5
Two buildings were built durng Lee’s ten-

ure. They were Lee Chapel, and the Lee House.
Lee was the General of the Army for the

ton Custis Lee, succeeded Lee as
President of the Univesity.

Lee attended church at Grace
Episcopal Church opposite the
University Center is today.

The sculpter of the Recumbent
Statue was Edward Valentine.

Lee had four daughters. They
were Mary, Agnes, Amy, and

RE. Lee

Lee “The Marble Man.”

Professor Johnston was the pro-
fessor hired by Lee to be first pro-
fessor of history and English.

Lee did not require students to
attend any chapel services.

On the eve of the Civil War,
Lee lived in Arlington.

The Lee family’s favorite por-
trait of General Lee was painted
by Pine in 1903.

According to Green, it took
about three and a half hours to find
the answers to all the questions
and invloved searching through
numerous books in the rare books
section of the Leyburn Library.

However, all this work was

worth the effort because it saved Green from

having to wait for someone to ask her to Fancy

Dress Ball.
“Within five minutes of being told that I had
won, I had an FD date,” said Green.

Buy a Macintosh now and you can

organiz your time,

straiggiten out your
ﬁnances or go comple

lyballisti .

Apple Powerlioole 1458 4/80.
Only 51,204.

Macintosh LC 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus
r‘nlemaIAppleCD"‘ 300:" CD-ROM Drive, I4'Di2Dlay, Apple Keyboard 1! and mouse-
Apple Keyboard 11 and mouse. Only $1, 196.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize
select Macintoshi or PowerBook® computer, you’ll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy
software programs. It’s all included in one low price. And the software an Applei computer? It does more. It costs less. its that simple. ,

package alone has a combined SRP value of $596 It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal 

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information.
For further information visit University Computing in
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

*Price does not include sales tax

Macintosh LC 520 5/80,

©1993 A/2/2/e (.'m2//in/er. Im: ,-ill rig!/Jls I‘t’.\‘t’I‘!’e(/. Apple. Ibe Apple logo. rilucmlorb and P011 'erBoolz (. re Ivgisterezl /raderm/rl=.i 0/ Apple Conipuleit Inc. Ap/2leCD Li‘ :1 Imzlemarle D//i[)[)[£’ Crim/m/er: /nc.
‘Bum! rm /lie combined Sizggat/ed Relax‘! Prices (SRP) of/be prorlm-ix‘ in The Cmn/mi‘ Srytznire Se! for .rIIaci'i1IciilJ as of Oaabrr I. 1993.

 

The Rin -tum Phi, January 21,1.99 -*
W&LlF E 4

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

 

      
 

 

     

  
 
 

   
  

   

    

   

   

  

    

  
   
 

0“ "I3 mark by Mark Parisi Pluggers by Jeff MacNel1y V SP 3
ACE ’ RS
so/v, vourz MOTHER ANDI CAN . ~ _ Q
,3 ACCEPT YOUR ALTERNATIVE ‘ ’ g 4 L, l
‘ LIFESTYLE, BUT WE CAN’T

9‘ UNDERSTAND 

3 

I; 5‘

  Dave by David Miller 9

5' 

 l>ARLA'9 Co/v\MuNlCATiol\J ‘ DAVE'9 COMMUNICATION 0

. '_ _ €i<lLL§ €l<iLL§
ll, \,
 W ‘ -‘E’  LISTEN wm ‘r
' ”’ ‘~'¢""' L H R
 "  r + 1,»; ( STOP; MEDV|I’:‘l21uTH 
l; 171 are have ways to eal wi.h gj
3: _,h ugg writere block. I TALK ;‘B°"TMYsELF it _
‘I  [.9 Amurri:=mut=5o~9v1MA=.r-«=s- J 1 p  £3
-1 
1 Colonnade Crossword ¥_——___.__——— §

3(

  1 30% etlggoﬂctt %  wt ---~=<=~«-v w-««-6 ‘*‘°i’\\/ll_EV

v); ma EClN 9 ' r

 .3P.°.*::... NON ll0lllTUll ewvev gem 

'g1 13 gm/t;1e(t)it:s fabric

__ 1 love 9

17 Soon
18 Grocery
" 19 Unctuous
.. 20 Song for one
:;:.°.;:.,:::.°°°* BY
25 "—- the -in-——
2. :,::53.:.i;, M E
players
29 Belief

34 Pan name kin

 

 

 

 

35 Wipe the board .

36 Parseghian * ":.\A

37 Close-mouthed ~ §\_
one ‘ ..\ \

38 Tee off

39 Singer Burl

40 Coal weight

41 Make amends © 4 T ' ne Media Services. lnc. 01/21/94

42 Related on ‘*9 R°5°"°d

43 ,',“£;”;;:‘:'g° 5 Defeats Last week’s puzzle solved

45 Seethed 6 A Shaw

46 Groom's 7 Wade through
response 8 Ripped

47 Mailed 9 Waist _

48 Celebrity's John 10 Reg ~ ' \ .\
Hancock 11 ardner _ , ‘ ,

52 News tidbit 12 Manner \. 5, .  _‘ r 2 

56 Smallest of the 15 Tidiest \ . .. .-7 A  /44¢-
litter 22 Neap or ebgl

57 Very strange 24 “— Misera es" 4,, I ‘

58 Singer Guthrie 26 Agreements NTL _ ’  \

59 Luncheon 27 Dole out ‘{“§EEF%§,E ‘Q - 50 YOU RE / _ s‘ \5\\\\ ~\
ending 28 Singer Ross UITTLE MOSEV LOOKlNG FOR 2 IM LOOKING FOR A ;j$~:§\: \\ 

60 Lifts anchor 29 Hoisting device  A GOOD TAX 2/ , GOOD TAX CAVE; —: 2: §§§\\:\.‘

61 Minus 30 Seldom seen 5HELTER--- 54’ §\

62 Entrance 31 Of shipping C = / V,

63 Soda fountain 32 Greek island  ~ / 
treat 33 Relieved : ~ 1  ‘_ / p _

V 64 Chair V 1 35 English school _ _ . —, ,  ._ .,   , J: . I 1»  ' $3‘?! ?\ § ' -‘~ ‘ ’ ~
 " ‘ " Z ’ 38 Cur|y.'Larry and ‘ _ ' W ,, , ', ,  ,_~ I. . J - Eff? _ , § ' . ‘ ‘ :  W I H *4/V 3‘
it DOWN‘ - ‘ 1‘Mo'e “' “     '   ~ ' /-H? \ a V J
1 1 Bikini tops 39 Shortened John 45 Command 51 Melody ' « 1 / A d {H I ‘V
2 Slots spot Hancock 47 Overturn 53 Cedar. e.g. S H 0 E V _ , 3  ’ ?\5 \
3 Pop star 41 Actor Ray 48 Sedanl  ‘X/ILanchester /1,,  \__\q\‘ :  ég , ~ A6 _ X 41
4 Abbreviated 42 Lon time 49 Biblica word ajority “ \. _ -—; ~ ,_ \_ ._V~§/* \~.\\' -—;.:.— ‘—”
John Hancock 44 Wasgie material 50 Paper measure 56 Danger color  Jeff \K’5 . _-T‘ E  / i L
s \ 2, V ‘Z! 2. /

      

Valley  Part—Time Help Wanted 
HARDWARE STORES : Work approximately 20 hrs. per week : ' ‘
Hardware, Paint, and Related Items EOppOrtunity to earn $400 - $800 per month startingi P  
: immediately - College Students Welcome : Restaurant

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. I C311 463-1676 I ..
E   Restaurampiusngmloungemenu 1

Open 4 p.m. until closing

‘ aﬁﬂimw”
L a=me/¢   -  $2 Oﬁ‘ any pasta dinner with’

 Are you looking for an exciting and rewarding summer job?

   
  

 

 
         

   The A Bar A Guest Ranch is on 140,000 private acres of southern Wyoming, d
at   ,v‘ I‘ surrounded b national forest and wilderness area. We have 0 nin s in all areas   ID-
ﬂ . , 1 3 V Y P9 8
. .   ,. of guest services. If you are available from approx. June 1 to early Or late Scpt.,
2:  V ~-~«;._~_»’"$ __ we would like to talk with you about the possibility of working with us this .
 _ J '*""~"m'§“"' " summer. Bob Howe will be interviewing on campus February 2. TO arrange an g Route   . 111 fI'OI1t Of Days Inn .
am Q /" " 4‘ interview time, sign up at the Careers Office in the University Center.   J
Saturda Momin - All U Can Eat Pancakes Questions? can (303) 6704323 K
y g V

Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

 LBJlﬁﬂ   r . , .
Friday and Saturday Nights 11p.m.- 4 a.m. C0UNSELORS3CamP Wayne for Glrls
Sunday 9 a-mr 2 pm. brother/sister camp in Northeastern Pennsylvania.
Rt. 11 North 463-3478 Open 24 Hours June 23 through August 21, 1994‘ HAVE THE
C G MOST MEMORABLE SUMMER OF YOUR
F( V LIFE {GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR GROWTH
W&L Art IN PERSONAL, PROFESSIONALAND
We have three 0  PARENTING SKILLS. Positions include: Tennis, Swim
(W.S.I. preferned), Waterskiing, Sailing, Basketball,

R. E. Lee

. ° - Vllbll,Sftbll,S ,G ', o
: Signatures: Two are War Date.     Dance/Cﬁeﬁilezding, A:mbi:Cs,c]‘;[i-a11i]::,nlI::)S[i:acss, Guitar;

: w.%t&;.§°Pr’r::t;:a:‘:.d.:.‘::?;:d... St N““'.“’C“‘“*"“g’"*f“"’S?“""“"°"3°‘“‘“‘°S"’*“““"g’
. Sculpture by Ron Tunison Sllkscreens Drawmga Vldeographya Phmographya

, Mary and George Washington Pieces Famous M e n, S & WOmen,S Apparel and Shoes Self-Defense, Other staﬂ‘: Group Leaders, General, Nurses,‘
3 from America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order Driver/Video or Photo (21+).

! ﬂ - ~ Companies. New Shipments Every Week. ff On campus interviews 1
3 E “J U  3 East Washm ton street EXP6‘1egggggljgrggiggssagggrgmg 80% 0 Iheday, February 1, 1994. 11 a.m.-3p.m. in

' t . VA 4450 ' '

‘ (7<=(>)<§r)1§“<3>f11_6464 the University Center. If you need more

; Open Monday _ Saturday Information, call 1-800-756-CAMP, 516-889-3217 "
Z 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. H M S 9 3 or write

: Ours: . - . : - : - ,

, K 0" 3- 0 5 30 463 973° 12 Allevard St.,L1do Beach, NY 11561.

, L /J .

 

  

The Rinﬁtum Phi, January 21,

1994

.EC members stand by trial procedures

5 EC from page 1

the penalty for a guilty verdict in an
Q open trial is stiffer than the penalty for
a guilty verdict in a closed hearing.

0 Two members of the EC partici-
pate in the investigation of a student
and later sit as members of the jury.

O The EC decides guilt by a two-
thirds vote, while most other college

. honor systems use a unanimous or 80
percent vote.

0 There is no specific intent re-
quirement in deﬁning an Honor Viola-
tion.

Others say a review of the Honor
System should address more funda-

. mental questions.

Elizabeth McCord’s mother,
Suzanne McCord, has been one of the
most vocal critics of the Honor System
in the year and a half since her daughter
was dismissed.

‘‘I think an honor system is wonder-
ful,” said Suzanne McCord. “But I feel

5 there are some double standards at
W&L”

While students who violate the
Honor System on campus are dismissed
from the university, dishonorable con-
duct off campus is routinely winked at,
she said. (See related story.) Worse,

0 students say, individual professors have

an Honor Violation.

“I think it needs to be made clear
that there ’s an overriding presumption,
and I think its stated pretty clearly in
the White Book, that all work is con-
sidered pledged” said EC President
Robert Tompkins. “Frankly, I don’t
buy Liz McCord’s argument at all. I
think she said she did something that
she hadn’t done.”

Even professors admit to some
fuzziness about the Honor System. Pro-
fessor Russell Knudson, McCord’s
French Professor, said the Honor Sys-
tem is cut and dry, but the way it is
administered hinges on human deci-
sions.

“It’s a sharp-edged code applied to
human beings — we apply it to each
and every one of our acts,” said
Knudson. “But I have a feeling that the
sharp edges are somewhat tempered by
human beings. An individual may blur
the sharp edge.”

To Elizabeth McCord, there was no
Honor Violation because she did not
intend to mislead Knudson. She ac-
knowledges she signed a pledge for
work she had not completed, but she
had an explanation.

“It was an ungraded homework as-
signment,” McCord said. “By signing
the pledge I thought ‘I’m under the
Honor System and l’ll go back and do

‘‘I didn’t doubt my integrity or hon-
esty. It was W&L’s Honor System that
was the problem -— not me.”

Kowalyk saw the situation differ-
ently.

“To my recollection, the teacher
asked her directly how she could have
done [the exercises]. It seemed to him
she wasn’t telling the truth,” Kowalyk
said. “I am comforted by the fact that if
I had been wrong or ifl am wrong there
were points where other people could
have stopped the process. I didn’t set
out to convict her, I didn’t convict her,
I didn’t convict her again.”

“Like they said when we first got
here— if you don’t cheat, you won’t be
brought to trial.”

*******

The 1988 Princeton Conference on
Honor Systems provides a compara-
tive analysis of honor systems at col-
leges nationwide. Compared to honor
systems at 38 other colleges, W&L’s
Honor System is comparatively vague
and provides little protection for the
accused.

Of the 38 colleges reviewed, only
W&L and the military academies have
honor systems that go beyond the class-
room.

Tompkins said although W&L’s
Honor System extends into the social
realm, academic Honor Violations and

different standards for what constitutes

it right after class.

social Honor Violations are treated

Students take honor p
less seriosly off the Hill

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

. The White Book defines an Honor Violation as dis-
honorable conduct. When it comes to honor trials, that
usually means lying, cheating or stealing on campus.

Although the Honor System remains sacred on the
Hill, its critics wonder what happens when an Honor
Violation occurs elsewhere.

Take the case of Blake Comer. Comer, a W&L junior
at the time, hit and killed freshman Mary Ashley
Scarborough while driving drunk the night of March 16,
1989. Although several of his fraternity brothers knew
Comer hit Scarborough, none of them reported the inci-
dent to police or to the Executive Committee.

Two years later, Marcus Miller, then a W&Ljunior,
was charged with breaking into a W&L student’s apart-
ment with intent to commit sexual assault. Miller, who
eventually pleaded guilty to trespassing, was never re-.

 : ported to the‘ EC. ‘ Finally, after a woman complainedof

-sexual harassment by Miller in 1992, the Student Con-
duct Committee dismissed Miller from the university.

Last winter, six Phi Delta Theta fraternity pledges
chopped down a bamboo tree in a VMI professor’s back
yard to use as a decoration for a party. The Phi Delt
pledges were sentenced in Lexington City Court to
community service work. But their actions went unpun-
ished by the EC. No one ever reported their actions as
Honor Violations. And the EC does not have the power
to investigate unreported Honor Violations.

“Things outside academic violations are a lot harder
to pinpoint,” said 1992-93 Executive Committee Presi-
dent Josh MacFarland. “We don’t go looking for things
[to prosecute].”

Then there’s the case of Elizabeth McCord. McCord
acknowledged that she signed a pledge in a French
course for work she didn’t do. But, she claims, she
intended to do the work and never knowingly violated the
Honor System.

McCord, whose transgression occurred on the Hill,
was expelled from the university.

To Elizabeth’s mother, Suzanne McCord, this is a
massive cleft in the Honor System.

“The Honor System is very militaristic on the Hill and

very permissive on the social scene,” Suzanne McCord
said. “lfyou’re going to have this incredibly rigid Honor
System, it has to be in all aspects of your college life.”

Others say an Honor Violation is an Honor Violation,
no matter where it occurs or how insigniﬁcant it seems.
One of them is McCord’s accuser, Cindy Kowalyk, ’93

“Other people have said I acted incorrectly [when I
turned Elizabeth McCord in],” Kowalyk said. “But I
don’t feel that way. Sitting in class that day, it seemed a
blatant offense. If enough people had felt as strongly that
such a small offense shouldn’t be turned in, that it wasn’t
in the spirit of the Honor System, Elizabeth wouldn’t
have been convicted.”

MacFarland agreed.

“Everyone knows, or ought to know, the Honor Sys-
tem encompasses all aspects of life at W&L,” he said.

But MacFarland acknowledged that the EC usually
doesn’t handle cases of socially dishonorable conduct.

EC President Robert Tompkins agreed.

“I guess in the academic setting, you tend to have rules
that are more clear-cut, such as you are not allowed to
copy another person’s exam,” Tompkins said. “There’s
more sort of wiggle room for people in the social setting
a lot of the time to say ‘Well, I didn’t understand what
was going on...’ And that happens in academic things
too, but you see it more in the social setting”

“Also, people come up with what they think are things
which might excuse their culpability, like being drunk or
being under some social pressure to do something,” he
said.

MacFarland said conduct problems shouldn’t be un-
der the Honor System.

“You don’t want an absolutely perfect student body
running around,” he said. “It’s college, and sometimes
people screw up and get out of hand. I think [the EC] is
hearing the right types of cases. The things that are
brought to the Student Conduct Committee and the
Student Faculty Hearing Board are of a different nature.”

But some people say that does not justify the apparent
double nature of the Honor System.

“I have a hard time with the extremes in the Honor
System,” Suzanne McCord said. “There are boys who
commit rape and graduate from W&L, but my daughter
won’t.”

“That’s a real hard thing for me to accept.”

~./'§/

 

IIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIlllllIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

EXCELLENT

 

‘E BEACH Springbreak Promoter.

_ EXTRA INCOME NOW!

ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week -

Free Details: SASE to
International Inc.

1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

 

Small or large groups.
FREE trips and CASH!
Call CMI 1-800-423-5264

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIlllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Seasonal employment available as a whitewater raft guide
in W.Va. Experience not required. Must be 19 years old,
have current CPR and first aid. Contact North American
River Runners, P.O. Box 81 Hico, WV 25854

1-800-950-2585 EOE

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-800-327-6013. 1

o ' For Sale: Brother Word Processor

Brand New and Price Negotiable
Call 462-4869

SPRINGBREAK
packages. PROMOTE on
campus or SIGN UP for
rooms. Daytona, Panama

City $129 and up. Cancun.

quite differently.

“[Social Honor Violations] are
tougher to pinpoint because I think
people tend to be a little more cavalier
with the system offthe Hill in the social
context and in the fraternity context
and that’s troubling,” he said. “It’s
hard to tell how widespread that is
because I think there’s sort of a general
acceptance among a large portion of
the student body that it’s okay to do
certain things in a social setting that
might otherwise present a problem with
the [Honor System].”

W&L’s Honor System defines an
Honor Violation as anything the cur-
rent student body deems dishonorable.
Lying, cheating, and stealing are ex-
amples of dishonorable conduct. The
other schools limit their definition to
academic dishonesty, such as cheating
or plagiarism.

“The system puts the principle above
all else,” said Tompkins, “and that prin-
ciple is to behave [like gentlemen]. I
don’t think you’ll ever have a clear
deﬁnition of what honor is or what it
involves. It’s always going to be open
to some interpretation. 1 think that
lying, cheating and stealing are as ex-
plicit as we need to be.”

W&L also appears to be in the mi-
nority as a single-sanction system.
Vanderbilt, Wake Forest, The College
of William and Mary, Gettysburg,
Smith, Princeton University, The Air
Force Academy, Duke and Haverford
all have multi-sanction systems, with
punishments ranging from letters of
reprimand to failure in the course to
dismissal from school.

At W&L, a guilty verdict in a closed
hearing results in the student’s forced
withdrawal from the university, while
a guilty verdict in an open trial results
in dismissal.

Tompkins said this is not much dif-
ferent from our court system in the
United States.

“I think even in the criminal justice
system, there’s an incentive given to
defendants to plead guilty and if they
don’t and in fact exercise their rights to
trial, they get a stiffer sentence and I
think that’s fairly commonplace,” he
said. “I also think that the appellate
process that we use is a completely
new hearing-——you start from scratch
with a new jury and you present the
entire case. When you have an appeal
in the criminal system, you don’t get
that. You appeal a point of law or a
particular aspect of the trial, but you
don’t get to start from scratch.”

The University_ of Virginia., the
Virginia .Military.Institute, Princeton,
Haverford, Gettysburg and W&M all
require that 80 percent or more of the
jury find the accused person guilty.
Rice demandsaunanimous decision of
guilt. W&L only requires that 67 per-
cent of the jury find the defendant
guilty.

W&L has relatively few safeguards
to ensure a fair trial. Rice University
has an impartial student observer sit in
on the trial to ensure fairness. At
Haverford, the accused is allowed to
remove three members of the jury. At
UVa., Vanderbilt, Sewanee, Princeton,
Smith,The AirForceAcademy,W&M,
and VMI, the investigators of the
charges cannot serve on the jury. But at
W&L, two EC members take part in
the investigation of the accused and
later sit on the accused’s jury.

‘‘I think there is a tendency to take
‘investigator’ as synonymous with
‘prosecutor’,” said Tompkins. “A lot
of times I think people confuse the
roles of people in the EC process with

Winter
Merchandise
on Sale

appogomzoi

Lexington Shop

for Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories

     
   
       
        
       
      

   

       
       
   

Hours: 10 — 5:30
Mon. — Sat.
23 N. Main St.

   
    

roles of people in the judicial system.
When we send out an investigative
team, we ask them to look at all aspects
of the case and they can do everything
short of talking to the accused. So
they’re not there to prove a crime.
They’re there to gather as many facts
as they can.”

“And the purpose of a closed hear-
ing as stated in the White Book... is to
ascertain more facts if we feel that the
only way to really understand the case
is to talk to the accused person and tell
them what we understand the facts to
be and see what their response is,” he
said.

Also at U.Va, Vanderbilt, Sewanee,
Princeton, Smith, The Air Force Acad-
emy, W&M and VMI, the accused
knows that an investigation is proceed-
ing against him.

At W&L, the student does not know
an investigation has taken place until
he is brought to closed trial. The inves-
tigators do not hear the accused’s side
of the story until the trial.

Honor trial procedures at most other
schools provide a support group for the
accused, or at least allow them to seek
advice and comfort. For example, at
W&M the student is allowed to have
the support of parents, teachers, and
spiritual advisors. At UVa., the student
is appointed both legal and emotional
counsel. At Gettysburg, the accused

 I 7171
ﬂlt ‘Union-

Run

and Restaurant

Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights

and accuser are allowed to seek the
counsel of any student, faculty or staff
member.

But at W&L, the student must keep
the case secret, speaking only to the EC
and to appointed legal counsel. W&L
even prohibits telling parents about
honor trials.

Elizabeth McCord maintains she
never intended to commit an Honor
Violation. Yet she was dismissed from
the university. The Air Force Acad-
emy, Rice, UVa., and VMI all require
that the accused student must intend to
commit an Honor Violation before he
can be found guilty. ,

“I think that intent is an important
part of the three things that are enumer-
ated in the White Book—lying, cheat-
ing and stealing,” said Tompkins. “I
think there is an intent requirement tied
up in the definition of all those terms
and perhaps we should be more ex-
plicit about that.”

“But intent in and of itself is some-
thing that you have to sort of under-
stand from the circumstances because
it’s hard to actually prove intent. And
the way I’ve seen the system operate
and the way honor has been interpreted
by the committee, there’s always been
a regard for the intent of the person. If

0 See EC page 10

 

    

  

 

Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

Six Room.lnn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dining
Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Winter Package

Tuesday, Wednesday. & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two

463-5988

(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

        
 
    
 
  

    

 

 

' Do You Want VISA & MasterGard Credit Cards? , 82 <=ARD- B0‘ 165% ATLANTA- GA 30-2 ,
Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  VISA’/MASIERCARDQ Cmd“ '

accepted credit cards In the world...VIsa® and Master&rd0 U . “mm 3

__ - __ credit cards.."ln your name.“ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN | camsappmved gmmcdratcty, 1ooq/. ougngutsam I

I NOW Showing CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BENDREI ' |
. GCTOHIITIO VISAS and MasterCard® the credlt cards you I I
Daily 7:00 p_m_ deserve and need for-— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT 3 NAME I

Sat. & Sun. 4:30 & 7:00 p.m. STOREs—TLm10N—ENTERTNNMENT"' I I

_ EMERGENCY OQSH-—TICKETS—RESTAURAN'I$—  '

Rated PG 13 H0.'I‘ELS—MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENI‘ALS— '

REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD vourz car-zorr RATING! | CITY STATE __ ZIP :

"V I-"9 : STUDENT? _Y£§__§o_ s_s_# I

0 Daily 9:35 pm. ‘ngiﬂ "0 t“"' d°‘m5! . '

Sat. 3. sun, 2:20 3. 9:35 pm g\|K,“s‘£“cI“° No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE

nated n “5gfl|5‘“_o 6:‘ no security deposit! ' NOIE: Ma.stuCnrd is. registered tredennrk d’ Mamani International. Inc. '

Ggelahi I’ I Visa Is a registered tradermrk ofVISA usa. Inc. and VISA tmamauonai I

251-7292 35"” ""5 °°""°" T09" I '
\g275BeechAve., Buenavistaj Youn CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING! L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _|

 

PAGE 8

    

@112 ilting-tum {ﬂirt

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

It’s your system

“A state without the means of some change is without the means of its
conservation.” —Edmund Burke

Washington and Lee University is proud of its Honor System. If you ask
W&L students what brought them to this small liberal arts school in southern
Virginia, many ofthem will tell youthe Honor System played a role in their
decision. These students live under the system every day. It governs their
lives. But what governs the system?

The White Book states that the Executive Committee enforces the notion
of honorable conduct of W&L students. Since “honorable conduct” is a
vague term, the White Book maintains “the system applies to any conduct
considered dishonorable by the student generation involved.”

“But wait,” you are probably saying to yourself. “When do I get my
chance to let people know what I think is dishonorable?”

The answer is: NOW.

Ames Hutton, chairman of the White Book Review Committee, said at
last week’s EC meeting he is desperately seeking student input for the
WBRC’s suggestions for White Book revisions. Give him what he wants,
because the WBRC’s March I deadline is drawing close. You may have to
wait quite a while for another chance.

Last spring term, Phi Executive Editor Francesca Kefalas and Phi News
Editors Michelle Brien and Tom Hespos decided to do their own examina-
tion of Honor System issues for their Public Affairs Reporting class. The
article was undertaken because they felt the Honor System deserved the
attention. The article uses the only open honor hearing that has occurred in
the last four years as an example.

The story was not written to retry the Elizabeth McCord case, or to judge
McCord. The article was written to show how the Honor System works with
real people. The article was written to provide students with information they
never had before, because people were not willing to talk about the honor
system in an open way.

The article will bring up some issues that may get you thinking about what

K A changes you would like to see in the Honor System. Or you may decide it

doesn’t need to be changed. In any case, read the story. Let Ames (or any
of the other WBRC members, for that matter) know what you want. After
all, the Honor System will govern your life for the rest of your career at
Washington and Lee. And if it has taught us anything, it will stay with us for
the rest of our lives.

 you better wear a
jhat an earmuffs, too

VI

The weather folks say it will be warming up this weekend. The high is
expected to be in the 40s. Now, some of us might be tempted to break out the
shorts and T-shirts. After all, 40 will feel a whole lot warmer than -20.

We can’t help but believe the snow, ice and sub-zero temperatures will be
back soon. Rumor has it the Farmers/tlmanac predicted this winter to be one
of the coldest winters ever. We haven’t read the Farmers/llmanac , but so far
it’s right on target. So, since a few of us are damn yankees and have grown
up with the stuff, we decided we might impart some information about how
to deal with the cold and especially the ice.

First, we heard plenty of stories of people taking spills and how embar-
rassed they were. Don’t be embarrassed.‘ The conditions onthis campus are
treacherous and were f0_1‘, ‘W9 days b.efOl?€ thélﬁlilléfﬁily  ’closied.‘Buil'ding’S.
and Grounds has not exactly been efficient in clearing paths. In fact, we’ve
seen state road crews with higher efficiency. The university doesn’t want to
ruin the bricks by throwing salt on them, which is understandable. But for
those little gray stones to work at all, there should be more than a sprinkling
of them. So don’t feel bad if you fell — a lot of people did.

Since B&G hasn’t managed to get rid of the ice or to cover it up properly,
students do have to walk on the ice. If something looks like water, don’t step
on it. Chances are it is still ice and the slipperiest kind at that. Your best bet
is to walk on the ice that is clumpy and partially broken. It will give you more
traction. It will take you longer to get from place to place, but it’s worth it,
considering the end result could be worse than a bruised ego if you do fall.

The cold alone makes it dangerous outside. We’re sure you can all hear
your mother’s voice saying ‘now, bundle up.’ But mom was right. Frostnip
and frostbite are not pleasant. The best way to avoid them is to layer your
clothing. It really does work. Also, keep your ears, hands, nose and especially
your head covered.

You may have noticed that it hurts to breathe when it gets cold. The best

 way to stop that is to cover your nose and mouth with a scarf when it’s cold.

The scarfwill warm the aira little before it gets to your lungs, and it won’t hurt
to breathe.
Please be careful out there. Mother Nature can be really mean.

lQuote of the week:

“It’s a #@*! winter wonderland out there.”

- a W&L student commenting on the
tropical weather

-.—u—-—

(I112 ‘tiling-111111 Iﬂlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Hillary Olson

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

An Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-mm Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and My
Views do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1994 ‘

 

   
 
     

A WINK
W 115 Dow

00 Atrl‘ T

ME
gt!
)»/,t1,tN’ 35:40:67

New
see»! NOTHIH‘ yer!

  
   
  

AIDS activists misplace emphasis’

Just before leaving for Christmas break, W&L
witnessed something now inevitable on college cam-

puses. The candles of the
AIDS vigil were burning

brightly as I approached
the library; and I asked a
question that perhaps es-
caped the planners and sup-
porters of this event, no
matter how well
intentioned they are. What

 
   



A

C.F.
KUCERA,
’97

good will this do?
People are dying from
AIDS-related illnesses ev-

eryday, the activists are eager to tell you “we must do
something;” who can argue against doing something?
However, the something being done is to make the
AIDS activist pleased with themselves; that some-
thing doesn’t help a single AIDS victim. The candles
are a nice gesture, and the red ribbons sure do stand

- 35 out nicely on an outfit. Again, what do these efforts
~ ‘do? The answer: -nothing.
If one is not wearing one of these neatly folded red
ribbons, they are immediately labeled by some as
‘uncaring’ and ‘uncompassionate.’ These ribbons
seem to scream out “Look at me, I care.” For ex-
ample, one needs only to look at the entertainment
industry; at any given Emmy Awards, or other such
self-congratulatory programs, it is nearly impossible
to see a celeb without one of these ribbons. They’re
usually not even ribbons. They’rejewelry glittering in
the footlights for all to see. How much do these pieces
of feel-good jewelry cost, one wonders? Could that
money not be spent to do some good for AIDS

victims?

these people light
candles and wear rib-
bons, have they forgot-
ten about. cancer and
heart disease? I ’m sure
they haven’t, but the
absence of a cancer rib-
bon or heart disease rib-
bon on their clothing
surewouldn’tconvince
me.
The supporters of
the vigil may think my
comments unfair. As I
heard one supporter,

In fact, it is the AIDS victim that are being forgot-
ten in this race to see who cares more. How much
money was spent on planning
and executing this candlelight
vigil that could have gone to
AIDS, cancer, and other re-
search? Not a huge sum, but
howeversmall, it certainly would
have done more good than a
group of people who now feel
good about themselves, lighting
candles and wearing ribbons.

What is it exactly these people
want? Currently we spend more
on AIDS research than we do on a host of diseases and
viruses which are responsible for yearly death rates
for surpassing that of AIDS-related deaths. While

The candles area nice gesture,
and the red ribbons sure do stand

out nicely on an outfit. Again,
what do these efforts do? The

wearing a red ribbon, say, “but AIDS doesn’t dis-
criminate, anyone can get it.” Well, that’s true, any-
one can get it. Some are less likely, however. One

answer: nothing.

shouldn’t panic if you’re not an intravenous drug
user, or engaged in risky sexual habits. Take pre-
cautions, but don’t panic. AIDS is not the bubonic
plague. You’re not going to contract it sitting in.
your armchair watching a Sunday afternoon foot-
ball game. And, besides that point, did this person
suggest that cancer and heart disease do discrimi-
nate? I’m sure far more of us know someone who
has been the victim of cancer, or heart disease than
know someone dying from AIDS.

I feel it necessary to cushion my blows, how-.
ever. I do not mean to say AIDS is not a terrible
disease, nor is it not responsible for the life of many
who did little harm to others. All I ask is that people
start being realistic about just how much of an
epidemic this disease is. Certainly those at the
forefront of AIDS activism want people to think of

AIDS as the next Black
Death. If people believe
their calls of hysteria, it
means more power and
money. These people are
not those running the
candlelight vigil in front
of the Leyburn Library,
but they’re just as guilty
of feeling good about
themselves for wearing
red ribbons and lighting
candles but in many cases
doing little else.

If people continue to

say “Look at me, I care because I’m wearing a rec’
ribbon; where’s your’s?” I may have to drag out my
deficit reduction ribbon; it means I care.

Peck report skirts the issues

When I begin thinking about what
I am going to write my column on, I
tend to look for issues on campus first.
If I am unable to find something inter-
esting, I move on to national issues.
For the past few months, I have been
skipping an otherwise important issue

department’s decision. However, rather
than admitting to the possibility of a
faulty decision and reevaluating, the
department “dug in its heels” and placed
the administration in an awkward posi-
tion. Their only choice was to support
an obviously ﬂawed and potentially il-

 

that has been legal deci-
present on cam- sion, or to
pus.Ihavecho— puglicly
sen to ignore it em arrass
in hopes that the PATRICK some of the
administration most re-
ofthisuniversity MCDERMOPF, s p e ct e d
would correct , members
what seems to '  of the fac-
me to be a rather ulty by re-
simple mistake. v c r s i n g
As usual, I have their action

been disappointed by our leadership,
and now feel I must address the dis-
missal of Professor Demaree Peck.

I would like to preface this column
by saying I do not know Professor
Peck personally and I have not had a
class with her. What I know of her
work I have learned through various
reports of her teaching style and
through the reports in this newspaper.
This was another reason for my hesi-
tation in writing this column. How-
ever, I feel Professor Peck’s position
on campus has moved beyond the
point ofbeing an issue solely for those
who have a personal connection with
her. Peck’s situation is forcing us to
question the way in which our faculty
governs itself as well as the qualities
we as Washington and Lee students
respect in our professors.

As a spectator in this situation, it
has occurred to me the English depart-
ment, while being an impressive col-
lection of scholars, is not a perfect
body. They make mistakes just like
the rest of us, and they have clearly
made one in their decision not to re-
new Professor Peck’s contract. That
decision, when initially reported, was
based on vague characterizations about
Professor Peck’s scholarship and
classroom effectiveness. Since that
time, evidence has been presented by
Professor Peck and by a large number
of her students that seems to contra-
dict the reasons for the English

and reinstating Professor Peck.

True to form, the administration fol-
lowed “the boys” and has systemati-
cally opposed all attempts at investiga-
tion. The recent report filed by the
President’s Advisory Committee would
never have been written had Professor
Peck not forced an appeal through the
regulations of one of the University’s
accrediting institutions. Ironically, now
that the report has finally been written it
does not do what it should have done.
Rather than reporting their colleagues’
flawed decision and advising the presi-
dent to overturn it, the report fails to
address the real issue, and instead at-
tempts in some way to make everybody
happy. This is neither possible nor de-
sired. What was desired was for the
faculty to stand up against an injustice,
to demand adetailed explanation. I guess
that was too much to ask!

I must admit I am personally grow-
ing quite tired of writing letters and
columns in support of the rights of fe-
male professors to have a place on this
campus. Last year I wrote a similar
letter informing the university of the
appalling treatment received by Profes-
sor Valerie Hedquist, who left at the end

'of the year after being repeatedly ver-

bally battered for her alternative view-
points. Certain members of this com-
munity become terribly upset when oth-
ers express such views, especially — it
seems — when the source is a woman.
Why is that? Why is it that the men on

this campus can basically say whatever
they feel like, both in and outside the
classroom. But when one of our few
women professors says something or
acts in away not in line with the general
conservative views of the campus she
is all but carried off‘?

We have male professors on this
campus who make clearly bigoted com-
ments to their classes. We have others
who openly discourage women from
taking their classes and then blatantly
lower the grades of those who dare to
go against their wishes. We even have
male professors who skirt the edges of
sexual harassment with both their male
and female students. All of this is com-
mon knowledge to students, faculty,
and administrators, and yet nothing is
done to these fixtures of our campus.
The minute a woman presents views
that are considered alternative, how-
everbenign they may be, she is marked.
If she doesn’t have tenure when this
takes place, chances are she never will.
This is, I suspect, precisely what hap-
pened within the inner-sanctum of the
English department. “The boys” felt

both in and out of the department, are
clearly not pleased with these actions,
but the faculty members seem to be
very determined in their effort to clean
up the department. How ironic this is
—— It seems to me rather than strength-
ening both the image and effectiveness‘
of the department, they are weakening
it, more and more every day. They are
confirming the suspicions of many their
only desire is for a faculty made up of
white, conservative, men.

Finally, all ofthis stops at the desk
of the president of the university, whd
does not seem to have a very strong
retention rate, given the fact that he has
reportedly been trying to improve the
diversity of our faculty. Normally, the
excuse we hear for the low number of
women and minorities is that they are
hard to attract to a conservative cam‘
pus like ours. When they leave we hear
that they didn’t feel they could get
along with the students and their atti-
tudes. Here we have a professor who is
not only willingto stay,butwho clearly
has the support of students.

The decision that is left for Presi-

threatened and dent Wilson
invented rea- willnodoubt
sonsforProfes- .....:__.  _j...._ be difficult
sor Peck’s dis- for him. He
missal. As I We have male pr0fes- has to take a
said,atra ic, if - side. He has
not totallgi ac- Sors on tfus campus who to escape the
cidental, hu- openly discourage quagmire o

man mistake.
The prob-
lem is this par-

women from taking their
classes and then bla-

n e u t ral i t y
that seems to
plague every

ticular woman tantly lower the grades of action he
did not go qui- those who dare to 0 takes and
etly. She de- g once and for

cided to fight
and almost cer-

against their wishes.

allusehispo-.
sition to do

tainly caused

those respon- A

sible for the decision to become even
more disturbed. Next, their own stu-
dents began to turn against them. It
seems the English department has built
itself quite a reputation over the past
year or two for not being very accept-
ing of new professors who rival their
own popularity. Last year they “fired”
John Lynch and now they are desperate
to remove Professor Peck. Students,

what is right.

lfhe doesn’t,
he will have not only a guilty con-
science, but more seriously, a possible
sex equity investigation by the Justice
Department and a lawsuit that has the!
potential of taking a significant chunk
out of the Capital Campaign. Either
way, the president is faced with an
unpleasant situation,only one ofwhich
will allow him the confidence of hav-
ing “done the right thing.”

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1994

OPINION

PAGE 9

Fraternities need to come together

. Spos’ SPACE

Tom Hespos

“The search goes on. The more I
look, my world keeps getting smaller.”
— Van Halen, Mine All Mine.

D These wise words echoed in my

mind last weekend when I took a look
at the general attitude of some of our
fraternity men. Being of the mindset
that the fraternity system should oper-
ate as one cohesive unit until everyone
on campus is drunk and/or having a

0 good time, Spos realized how far we

were from this idealistic view.

There have always been fraternity
rivalries on this campus. Alumni come
back to school on alumni and Home-
coming Weekends and tell all of the
old stories.

You know, that one guy in Sigma

‘ Nu who shot ﬂaming arrows at Phi
Delt, the Phi Kappa Psi brothers of
some years ago that used a giant sling-
shot to shoot pool balls at rival frater-
nities. The list goes on.

Of course, alumni tend to exagger-
ate quite a bit, as demonstrated by the

‘following statement, which was prob-
ably never said by any alumnus, but is
indicative ofthe kind of stuff you usu-
ally hear:

“Back when I was in school, we

didn’t have any beer in fancy alumi-
num cans. We just ran around with
wooden kegs strapped to our backs and
when we’d fall over, we couldn’t get
back up again. And sometimes we’d
drink Sterno until we couldn’t see any-
more. And then we’d go light the
(insert rival fraternity here) house on
fire... (groans from surrounding
undergrads)”

This is not the mindset we should
accept. Spos
w i t n e s s e d
several acts of
random fra-
ternity vio-
lence this past
weekend and
later heard of
two more in-
cidents that
prompted in-
volvement on
the part ofthe
LexingtonPo-
lice. Stuff like this leads to intense
rivalry and the “I’m-not-going-to-let-
you-into—our-party-next-weekend-if-
you—don’t-let-me—into-your-party”
frame of mind.

Rather, we should all follow the
example of Mr. Doug Kaufman. Last
Saturday night, Mr. Kaufman waltzed
right in the front door of my fraternity
house with several of his friends and

at best.

It seems the general at-
titude of fraternity males

towards people in other
houses has been militant,

said, “Hey — I heard that there was a
party here. What’s going on?”

This is what Spos likes to see.
Equally cool was the attitude of Mr.
Joel Honts, who pulled me aside as my
brothers and I were leaving the Sigma
Nu house as their Saturday night party
came to a close.‘

“It was nice to see you guys again,”
he said. “Come back anytime.”

This sharply contrasts with the atti-
tude Spos usu-
ally sees at par-
ties around
campus. An
example fol-
lows:

Partygoer:
Um, can I
come in?

D o 0 r -
worker: How
many brothers
do you know?

Partygoer:
Uh, five or six. l’m friends with Joe
Frat.

Door-worker: Oh, really? Where
does he live? What’s his shoe size?
What’s the PIN number on his money
card? Where does he shop for power
tools?

Partygoer: Um, nevermind.

Door-worker: Thanks for playing.

See where this leads? Equally an-

noyingisthe followingsituation,which
actually occurred last weekend.

Door-worker: (to crowd of frater-
nity guys) Uh, sorry guys. We’re not
letting anyone else in. The party’s get-
ting too crowded. (Lets an entire
busload of road-school girls into the
party approximately halfway through
his statement).

This school is too small for that kind
of crap.Thisis not to suggest that every
party should be open, but it seems the
general attitude of fraternity males to-
wards people in other houses has been
militant, at best.

What we really need is one huge
party. Everyone is invited: the Alphas,
the Betas, the Deltas, the Chi-O’s, the
independents, the road-school girls, the
Swedish Bikini Team, the Flat Earth
Society and anyone else we can think
of (even Richard Weaver). No ﬁght-
ing, no sneering, no bird-flipping, no
malicious goring with pointy instru-
ments and no spitting (with exceptions
for chewing tobacco, which is encour-
aged).

The Princeton Review consistently
ranks W&L’s Greek system among
the top in the nation each year. Perhaps
if we cooperate a little and keep the
rivalries on the intramural sports fields,
we can secure that number-one spot for
next year.

Hope to see you next weekend.

‘Preserve the speaking tradition

MY VIEW

- Kimberly A. Peterson

students of W&L.

When I went through the Honor System Orienta-
tion, I distinctly recall one of the speakers mentioning
the speaking tradition which existed on campus. He
explained that this tradition creates a friendly atmo-

Osphere that students at Washington and Lee want to

maintain.

This tradition sets Washington and Lee students
apart from many other small colleges and universi-

ties. Although all students do not know each other on
a first-name basis, they wish to acknowledge the
friendliness and respect which each student holds for
another because of the mutual bonds shared by the

General Lee took the time to learn the name of each
student of Washington College. In everyday passing,
Lee would greet every young man by his first name.
He even knew where the student was from and how he
was progressing in school.

General Lee’s effort should convey a message to
every student here — this campus will suffer greatly

look away or stare blindly at your feet. Raise your
head and greet that person with afriendly “hello” or
“good afternoon.”

Why do students appear embarrassed when pass-

ing another student? I personally do not understand

nation.

this reaction. Why should one be embarrassed to
say hello to a colleague? There is no logical expla-

I encourage each student to strive to rejuvenate

the speaking tradition at W&L and to pass it down

if students abandon the speaking tradition at Wash-

ington and Lee.

Next time you pass someone on campus, don’t

to the next generations. I believe General Lee
would agree with me.

Kimberly Peterson is a junior at Mary Baldwin

LETTERS

who is studyin g for the year at Washington and Lee.

Support

A counseling/support group for
women students with eating and/or
compulsive exercise problems will
meet on Tuesday afternoons begin-
ning January 25. Call the Counsel-
ing Service at extension 8590 or the
Health Center at ext. 8401 to sign up
and receive additional information.

Calyx

Students who did not receive their
Calyx in the matriculation line may
pick up their copy in Carol Calkins
office in Unversity Center from 9
a.m. to noon and I to 4 p.m.

Short?

If you are interested in joining a
short person’s organization, please
call Doug Kaufman for more infor-
mation at 463-9364.

 

Notes

Put your organization’s news in
front of 2,000+ readers —— put a
general note in the folder outside
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 ofthe Uni-
versity Center. General Notes are
due on Tuesdays at noon.

Lacrosse

Anyone interested in being a
manager,statistician,orcomeraman
for the men’s lacrosse team this
season, please call head coach Jim
Stagnitta at 463-8678.

Tickets

Anyone holding tickets for the
cancelled brass concert this past
weekend may return them or mail
them to the Lenfest Center by Feb-
ruary 4 for a full refund.

IFC plans to follow up
on FIJI judgment

To the editor:

Last Tuesday, the Interfraternity
Council found Phi Gamma Delta guilty
of hazing. Hazing is detrimental to the
fraternity system and the university
and will not be tolerated. _

The IFC understands that Phi
Gamma Delta plans to appeal the pun-
ishment set forth by the Student Affairs
Committee. We intend to take an ac-
tive role in the appellate process and
hope to represent the best interests of

the fraternity system and Washington
and Lee.

Considering the gravity of the haz-
ing violation, as well as the complexity
of the judicial process, the IFC antici-
pates questions regarding both its deci-
sions as well as the findings of the
SAC. The IFC will be prepared to
answer these questions as soon as ap-
propriate.

The Interfratemity Council

Gaines Committee recommends lsororityadditions to the residence hall

To the editor:

This fall, a student committee has
been discussing ways to create in
Gaines Hall a vibrant residential com-
munity for Washington and Lee stu-
dents with a special emphasis on the
needs and interests of women students.
One important element of the review
has been the status of sororities.

Now in its sixth year, the sorority
system at Washington and Lee has

grown to include four national sorori-
ties involving over 65 percent of all
women at Washington and Lee. Eighty-
five percent of the women in the Class
of 1997 signed up for sorority Rush in
January. Plans are being formulated
for the addition of more sororities in
the future to accommodate the large
number of women who want a Greek
experience.

Within this context, the Gaines

Committee has recommended the cre-
ation of sorority meeting/office/lounge
space in Gaines Hall. These lounges
would be designed for each sorority (an
additional lounge would be provided
for Women’s Forum) and would pro-
vide a location where each sorority could
conduct meetings and Rush activities,
host parents and guests, store materials,
and have office accommodations.

If approved for 1994, these lounges

would replace the present arrangement
where sororities use public spaces
(Fairfax Lounge, TroubadourTheater,
Commerce School) and would provide
space for exclusive use for each soror-
1ty.

We see this as a reasonable and
effective step at this step at this stage in
the evolution of sororities at Washing-
ton and Lee.

In the long run, the Panhellenic

Council is considering University
lodges for each sorority which would
include meeting space, kitchen facili-
ties and a guest suite.

lnthe spring, the Panhellenic Coun-
cil plans to survey all members of the
sorority system to gain more specific
information concerning housing and
related sorority issues.

We do not believe that the creation
of the sorority lounges in Gaines Hall

at this time would compromise the
future residential needs of sorority
women at Washington Hall.

Sincerely,
Laura E. Clark
President of Panhellenic Council

David L. Howison
Dean of Students

SDC asks for student volunteers for Winter Phonathon

‘To the editor:

Beginning the night of January 26, the Stu-
dent Development Committee will be conduct-
ing the Annual Fund’s Winter Phonathon in the
Military Science Building. The Phonathon will
continue through the night of January 27 and the
nights of January 30 through February 3.

O SDC members and volunteers will be calling
alumni and asking for donations. All students
who participate in the Winter Phonathon will

receive free food, a free T-shirt (For A Good
Time Call 1-900-PHONATHON) and a free long
distance phone call for their much-appreciated
efforts. During the two weeks leading up to the
Winter Phonathon, flyers will be posted listing
phone numbers to call for information on how to
volunteer, and a meeting will be held this week
before the Phonathon to show volunteers how the
Phonathon operates and to provide some useful
tips on how to start a conversation, how to re-

spond to the top ten reasons for not giving and
how to handle different situations that might
arise. The meeting for volunteers and the Winter
Phonathon will take place in the Military Science
Building which has conference rooms and work
stations equipped with telephones.

Last term, over 425 students participated in
the Fall Phonathon, raising over $20,552 in
pledges. The money raised went to the Annual
Fund which helps to cover university expenses.

I

This money in turn keeps tuition costs down and
serves as a “hidden scholarship” for all Washing-
ton and Lee students. Without the work of the
students who volunteer for the Phonathons and
the hard work done by the members of the SDC,
tuition costs would be comparable to those of
more expensive universities. Consequently when
one volunteers to help the Phonathon, one is in
turn actually helping keep one’s own tuition
costs down.

For more information, interested stu-
dents can call their class representatives
at the following numbers: Freshmen —
John Bator, 462-4565, Sophomores -
Kristin Lawrence, 464-8794, Juniors —
Lise Brown, 462-4478, and Seniors ——
Joanna Love, 463-7476.

Paul D. Saboe
SDC Public Relations Director

TALKBACK

  

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

ever caught a Washin

 

F’

  

 

As a security guard, What’s the funniest thing you’ve 

 

gto and Lee student doing.”

 

  

4
4 l

A] Tkacik, Seven-month veteran — “I got a
Call that there was a six-foot elf with pointy
shoes, a pointy hat, and tights passed out in the
Corral. Sure enough, there was a six-foot elf
who was a fraternity pledge and soon two
other elves came over to assist him in getting
back into the fraternity.”

Larry Stuart, Nine-year veteran — “These
students were on the footbridge and they were
urinating off of it.”

Thomas “Bauer” Bane, 21-year veteran  ti
“Seven years ago l caught a football player}
climbing around on the ledge above the secu-fl
rity office trying to look in the window at this';i
boy and girl in the dorm.” i'

Fred Coffee, 18-year veteran ~— “A female
taking a shower in the sauna.”

Steve Tomlinson, 11-year veteran —— “Guys
making out with their girlfriends in the fresh-
man lot and soaping cars at Halloween.”

 

 

ll-T-
HI
I.
‘. I
I
I

I
I
I
.1
'1
I
t

  

PAGE 10

Wather, po

   

 

themselves stuck somewhere else.

it FIGHTS, from page 1

, According to police reports, a see-
I  ond fight occurred on Saturday night——
i‘: this one outside the Chi Psi fraternity
i‘ house. Lexington police made two ar-
rests. Junior Nicholas T. Kyriakidis
and Sophomore Michael S. Carterwere
arrested for public intoxication. Carter
was also charged with resisting arrest.

In an official statement, Chi Psi
Secretary Phil McKoy said the inci-
dent involved a verbal argument be-
<1 tween two pledges inside the house.

“It was not a fight,” he said.

McKoy said several Chi Psis took
Carter outside in order to send him
home.

“He took a chair off the porch and
[I threw it on the lawn,” McKoy said.
 “The cops were driving by and they
saw Mike trying to go back into the
house from the bottom of the steps.”

McKoy said a policeman ap-

Students who were lucky enough to get their cars moving sometimes found

Three students
 arrested

proached the house without identify-
ing himself and took Carter by the
shoulder.

“He (the policeman) put Mike on
the floor inside the house and pepper-
gassed him,” McKoy said. “It was
only after he pepper—gassed [Carter]
that he identified himself.”

W&L Security and more police cars
arrived, McKoy said, and Kyriakidis
was arrested shortly afterward. McKoy
said Kyriakidis was calm and not dis-
orderly.

He was arrested for being drunk in
public.

“He asked for a breathalizer or a
drug test but they wouldn’t give him
one,” McKoy said.

Kyriakidis refused to comment.

The police report contained no
record of the alleged pepper-gassing or
the police’s alleged refusal to give
Kyriakidis a test for blood-alchohol
level.

 FIJI plans appeal

6 FIJI, from page 1

Photo by Ethan Krupp. The Ring-mm Phi

D ICE from page 1

ing to one student.

“The whole place is closed.”

conserve power.
with more than the power.

with water pipes around campus.

to asses the damage.”

Thursday, ﬂooding rooms with water.

water everywhere.”

“There’s nobody here,” said the student.

Administrative and academic computer sys-
tems were shut down in an additional effort to

But the cold weather has caused problems
Shaw said there have been some problems
“There were frozen water lines in the dining
hall and some problems with the heatlines in
Woods Creek, but they have been corrected”
Shaw said. “For noe there are no ajor problems,
but we have to wait until the weather inproves

A pipe at the Pi Kappa Alpha house burst

“We first noticed when a light ﬁxture burst
that was full of water,” said one brother. “There’s

the pantry, water in the ducts, water in my
apartment.”

Buildings and Grounds said it is not sure
exactly what the problem is, but has people
working on it.

“They told us they’ll work through the night
and everything should be normal by tomor-
row,” said Simmons.

Superintendent of buildings and grounds
JamesAr1hursaidB&Ghasbeentryingminmize
any problems the cold weather and power short-
ages might cause.

“There is a crew of 50 people who are
working very hard to remedy the situation,”
Arthur said.

Some students had problems negotiating
campus on Monday and Tuesday. Senior
Maurice Cole said he fell Tuesday afternoon in
the Graham-Lees archway.

“There was no gravel where I slipped.” Cole

said. “I ended up bruising my ego and twisting .

my wrist. I could sit, there was so much pain in
my lower back. I had to take a pillow to work.”

    

O
The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1994

wer wreak havoc on campus life .

does not use salt or sand on the ice. He said he
called B&G last year to complain about thre ice
and was told B&G did have salt but does not use
it becasue it would damage the bricks.

‘‘It was frustrating to think the preservation
of bricks was more important than that of hi’-
man bones,” Cole said. “I thought about start-
ing a petition this year, but I think Godheard my
prayers and decided to cancel classes. However
I don’t see why more isn’t being done to clean
up the ice in these two days.”

Sophmore Phaedrea Cianciulli said she was
upset with the way the university dealt with th
ice as well.

“I fell down the stairs by the gym on Tues-
day afternoon.” Cianciulli said. “They should
have had gravel there by that time. Buildings
and Grounds needs a more effective way of
dealing with the ice then Ieeting itjust melat and
refreeze.” 6

But not everyone thought the university
needed to cancel classes.

“I don’t think that classes should have been

“Right now we just have heat, but no elec-
tricity,” said House Mother Pauline Simmons.
“There are five W&L people working on the
pipe. There’s water in the party room, water in

“I’m very glad that they canceled classes,”
Colesaid. ”I thought that no one cared that
people were falling.”

Cole said he can not understand why B&G

Wilson will review the appeal, which must be presented to him in writing by
Jan. 27, 10 days after SAC’s original decision. He will then decide whether the

“The president has wide jurisdiction

appeal
Wolfe said he hopes the presentation

would be eliminated.

who has done a study about what should
contribute positively.”

appeal should fare well with Wilson.

~o~¢~.

appeal is valid. lfso, he will express his opinion and return the appeal to SAC.

in how he chooses to respond,” said

Howison. “Then SAC takes up the position he presents to us. ”

“There is a precedent with [Delta Tau Delta],” Howison said. “They appealed
and SAC modified its original position.”

Delt was originally sentenced to five years suspension for destruction of its
fraternity house, but the sentence was reduced to 18 months suspension after an

FIJI made to SAC during the original

hearing will act in their favor. Wolfe said that FIJI House Corporation President
Ed Bishop worked with the house to revamp their pledge program so that hazing

“Bishop’s plan is to get the nationals involved and have the alumns control the
chapter,” said Wolfe. “We would come up with a pledge program with no hazing
that would be a model for other fraternities.”

Bishop said the plan would involve an examination ofthe problem.

“I commissioned them to study the problem,” said Bishop. “There is no one
be required for initiation into a Greek .
letter society. Rationally, pledge training is really needed, but hazing doesn’t

3.» Wolfe said FIJI will file the appeal next week, and he said he believes their

“There’s a pretty wide base ofsupport for us from our alumni and from alumni
1." of other houses,” Wolfe said.

 r
it

,.I

. I

I.  
, I

4»

:1

cu

t‘l

.,~_

.h.

.

...

‘ill

.r

I

I.

Q’

 

Slippery When Icy

Phot by Joe Frampton, The Ring-tu P

   

. .
hi

A student holds on to the railng for dear life. Many Students
were faced with the dilemma of whether to chance the stairs
or try and walk up one of W&L’s many slopping surfaces. Last
night’s snow will make walking around campus the worst it
has been all week. The thin covering of snow will hide the ice,
but will not be enough to provide more traction. Some of the
snow and ice should melt this weekend when temperatures
rise to the 40s.

canceled,” said one sophmore. “The university
could have operated sucessfully. Virginia Power
just made everything to be a lot worse than it
really was.” .

EC considers intent

IID EC, from page 7

somebody’s done something by mis-
take, and they’ve truly done it by mis-
take, they’ll find themselves being ac-
quitted.”

Rice and UVa. require guilt to be
proved beyond reasonable doubt.
W&L’s White Book does not specify
any standards that must be met before
guilt can be determined.

Elizabeth McCord applied to Wake
Forest, Vanderbilt, and the University
of Texas after herdismissal from W&L.
Wake Forest and Vanderbilt both have
Honor Systems similar to W&L’s.

Elizabeth enrolled at Vanderbilt af-
ter leaving W&L, where the honor sys-
tem is as strict as at W&L. It prohibits
cheating, plagiarism, or otherwise fal-
sifying academic work. But unlike
W&L, at Vanderbilt failure to turn in a
possible Honor Violation is a breach of
the Honor Code.

The investigators at Vanderbilt do
not act as jury members in the hearing.
Once an investigation beings, the ac-
cused is told of the charges and given a
copy of all available evidence in the
case, a copy of the student handbook,
and a copy of the list of advisors, and is

informed of all developments in the »

investigation. The investigators ask the
accused to tell his or her side» of the
story. The accused has at least 72 hours
to prepare for the trial.

At W&L, two members of the EC
investigate the charges and later sit on
thejury. The accused does not know an
investigation has taken place until the
EC is ready to hold a closed hearing,
and does not see the evidence against
him. Then the accused has only 48
hours after notification to prepare for
the trial. Many at W&Lfeel the EC has
made up its collective mind before the
accused actually comes to trial.

“That’s an offsided concern with
that,” said Tompkins, “and I question
the legitimacy of it and just in watching
it in practice, I’ve noticed no differ-
ence in the way the investigators treat
the ease as opposed to other members
of the committee, either in the hearing
or in deliberations.”

At Vanderbilt I2 members adjudi-
cate the honor trial and 10 must give
guilty votes to convict a student of an
Honor Violation. Ifthe accused is found
guilty, punishment ranges from failure
in the class to expulsion.

lilﬂll LIP SYNIIHI
3 P.M.!

Just $3 at the door, its for charity and

it’ll be fun. At the Pavilion.

Elizabeth McCord ignored the se-
crecy stipulation during her honor trial
and told her parents. She says tlﬁt
without their support she would not
have survived the honor trial or had the
strength to appeal the decision to an
open trial.

Suzanne McCord said her daughter
began to doubt herself during the honor
process.

“Elizabeth is a strong individuaf,”
Suzanne McCord said. “But the open
trial is really damaging to your psyche.
Many times she thought ‘maybe I am a
bad person, maybe I did do something
wrong, maybe I did have bad inten-
tions.”’ -

1992-93 EC President Josh
MacFarland, who had served on the
EC for three years and was one of the
prosecutors at McCord’s trial, stood
firmly behind the system.

“I really think it works the way it is.

We’re obviously not out to get som‘e— ‘

one,” said MacFarland.

“For the most part, we stay to being
a fact-ﬁnding, not a prosecutorial, body.
We’re just as screwed up as any court
system in the country.”

Charles McCord, Elizabeth’s father

—— an alumnus and former EC member A

— sees it differently. 0

“I don’t believe the EC really un-
derstands the consequences of the pun-
ishment they are inﬂicting onstudents
when the infraction is as minor (as
Elizabeth’s ) was; I know I didn’t until
this event occurred,” he said.

“There was even greater dismayat
how students who stand up to the Honor
System, because oftheir belief in their
own innocence, are subjected to the
worst kind of ostracism and are forced
to pay the penalty of finding it almost
impossible to gain admission to many
other institutions.” .

Elizabeth McCord said the experi-
ence has changed her life forever.

“I think of myself and everybody
else with respect to the Honor System.
It’s one of the reasons I went to W&L.
I lived under an honor system at St.
John’s (her high school),” McCord said.
“But after the trial I realized I didn’t
know as much about the Honor System
as I thought. No one realizes the conse-
quences of an honor trial — being
kicked out. This has rerouted my entire

life. The EC doesn’t realize the power I

they have.” —

“I don’t think I understood wﬂat I

had so much respect for.”

3

9%

9.

tr

 

0
PAGE 11 The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1994
‘ % SPORTS

 

      
     
 
   
     

 

  

     

  

 

' GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Standings as of 01/20/94
Men’s Basketball Women’s Basketball
O
Leading SCOTCFS Leading Scorers
Player Pts Ppg p]- p p

Cam Dye’ 1;: 14-5 Vi‘i}gTrr1ia Yoerg 9t2S 

.;;';}.'£9‘ I ' 1: ‘f_T ~%-., -~' 3 4‘  .4 ‘ _. ” _ 1 Mat} NCWWY1 1 9-4 Sandra Holmes 85 8.5

Rspucip pmczs f  "I.-.~ .».: '*“-‘ii-t’«if.+«.._j.. Chris Couzen 104 8-0 Karen Stutzmann 77 7.7

an ' ‘*3~"~- ‘*3?  ' 1“  ‘  gm Ckogmtan (1)23  Sarah Aschenbach 7 7.0

‘L . 1,;  . ~~   .4“ ‘ ere ar er . ' ‘

U-S-D-A    -' ’.  ' Robert Miggins 98 7.5 iﬁﬁyvhgg/fleld  
BONELESS  Mark Connelly 91 7-0 Mary Tankard 45 4.5

  Stacy Williams 27 

Allison Hull 32 .
Leading Rebounders
0
Player Reb Avg
Robert Miggins 82 6.3
Cam D er 63 5.3 Leading Rebounders
Derek arter 62 5.2
S Mark Connelly 51 3.9 Player Reb Avg

Chris Couzen 34 2,6 Sandra Holmes 63 6.3

' Cl-,,C‘,:_er‘. Breast ‘ Jon Coffman 31 2.4 Virginia Yoerg 56 5.6
QW,._C...; »  H   Matt Newton 23 1.8  Tl‘:/ilnkzgrcild 38 2.3

. . —.. "’.f?".7CLl;'..--.n  T9” ‘C 3' 33’ 1° -

«   -7"" ~**'~‘-”~ A  “'  ‘ ‘ Allison Hull 31 3.1
Karen Stutzmann 30 3.0

TYSON FRESH FRYER-GRADE ”A” Fm_t,,mwStandingS /s§31cyy3y)igiiiams 43 3.;

. gayekr Carter  
ere . .
Jon Coffman 25/31 .807 F'°°'“"°W S‘a"d"'8S
i_|Mrr 2 wim Robert Miggins 32/45 .711 ,
‘ ADD|'|'|oNA|_ Cl'lI'lS Couzen 32/46 .696 lgiggerwilliams ta 
‘ PURCHASE Mark Connelly 25/40 .625 . Y . -

Matt Newton   Vlrgmla Yoerg  

'°"“'" ‘ ' am yer ' Sarah Aschenbach 3/5 .600

4 V _ , , ‘_ _ _ g _ ‘ iandrasllolmes 1.2/32 .594

 ‘  Mary Tankard 7/16 .438

’ . at  I 0 Nicky Mayfield 14/33 .424

, TANGERINES ......... ..EACH or Wrestling
  Records Men’s and Women’s Basketball
FRUIT ............... ..EACH . . A**e"da;;§nS*a*-Sm
 ~. P
   .4341‘: Branson 5‘-(Sand 11%?/t1‘26
  RADISHES ...... ..o 02. PKGC Anthony Raﬂa 1-2 126 Team R°.°°‘d 5‘8

  V Eric Shirley 5_4 134 126 Cumulative Attendance 4483

' " * ‘ FRESH '19 Rob de Clerk 1-4 134 HO“ 2485
MUSHROOMS ...... ..s 02. Adam Williams 6-4 142 $“jaf’A A“ d 13:58

Cary Hansel 1-3 142 ° 3 ‘’‘’”‘g“ C“ 3”“
Steve Tye 4-7 150 Women
Owen Smith 5-6 158
Lea Abercrombie 3-4 167 Tﬁam R900“! 5‘5
Colin Loomey 6-6 177 Cumulative Attendance 1327
‘ Cole Van Nice 9-5 190 gems 491%;
way
, _ Total Average Attendance 133
Player Tkdwns Reversals
. E  BFEHSEH   Washington and Lee
_ 011)’ 3 3 Team Records
Egg Sglglféyk %0  (updated for 01/20/94)
r
  GREAT VALUE édamHWillilams 3/11/go  Women’s Swimming 4-1
all’ 31156 4 Men’s Swimming 2-1
DECORATED OR pEs|(;NER DIET PEPSI OR Steve Tye_ 10/23 5/2 Wrestling 3-2
V Owen Smlth _ 14/13 2/8 Men’s Basketball 5-8
V T Lea'Abercromb1e 1/8 1/4 Women’s Basketball 5-5
_ Colin Loomey 9/11 2/1
79 Cole Van Nice 15/7 5/10 Overall 19-1,’
' 79 SQ.
FEET 24 PACK S orts mom t ’th
P en 0 e week...
12 OZ.
‘ CANS -J

O

WEEKLY SPECIAL WEEKLY SPECIAL

  MORE VALUE
_ Mum" MIX MACARONI &

CHEESE
D 8.5
01-  UMIT 76%  LIMIT
4 4

«- HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY
Al-L NATURAL FLOR|DA’S NATURAL
HUNTERICE 2/ 00 game; 199
.. CREAM es.~:5<.2%E~  JUICE «oz.
ti‘u‘ii’i£‘i‘“iKi“ii‘lE" -'39 é'iliti‘i?é‘é’i‘i't‘s‘ 2 /99
.. MILK SOUP “:55. 0
1121114 "i'ii‘i'En 19 

_wIi>£s  COOKIES  

 

   

o 0 Ph , _ _
P!‘ E I‘ h Y /‘ E  The mere act of walking around campus without falling was the)trciit:sEtt:lai'if}i<aliiFl:,Jgzirfhiim Pm
Prices |n This Ad Effective Wedn sday January 19 Through W nesday,Janua 25,1994. In Lexington Stores Week: Jan- 21: 1994-

On|y.We Reserve The Rig t To imit Quantities. None So d To Dealers. ‘%e_Glad|y Accept Federal tood'Stamps'.

 

  

 

Last Week:

MBB-Rand.-Macon 69, W&L 65
WBB—Mary Wash.71, W&L 29
Swim—Catholic defeats M&W
Wrest—defeats Davidson, Pensacola

PAGE 12

 
 

 "athletes’ha_,vet .
_i. sonal ’rnedi_a3 rejp

   

 ftive. And 2 pgofessronal 
 sp0rts.c91umnists,whoiset 
1_ihc.bjenet*t . ad I
E; «public spok per

  

     
   
  
  
   

         

_  YouAsee‘,w;hat[l~A rnre
. ally envious ofj_' the iii 5
2 "names, ,that..:sa.vvy ,.n_iefdia— : 
 typescome pttliithtopre

 

   

.A; But»7w~ait_l .IA=a'r‘n asavvy.
7 Arnedia type, ’right?v.I.<caAmAAe : '
"upon the only possiblelvseé  
» ‘lutiori. ‘ ’ ‘ 
lmust create rr‘iy}’own_ A
5 nicknames: the ;w_ofArl"d'_‘§»
waits for my genius. ‘5  I
I Sowe can call... ,
A Sarah " “6’0””
‘A Aschenbachl , I A
' AFo,rsome reason, lwheri
a sportswriter wh,o,will,re-'
} main unnamed‘.-,...puts, 1

 

   

 . . .'°3¢.li¢hé‘: . »
 ’Neww;n‘ aI.w.a.ySf(alm¢StaI~’
A wayS)iS<’«6¥n$toc0nﬁ¢¢tf¢rl’1 ~.
. ' the ‘important bucket from *
- .way.o_ut where beyond the 7 A
 three-point -:line when; itgf
» Ire‘all.y‘ 7_cou’rit’s.-; I.;ast,.weel<; - 
 he-5scoredi<fé>uif.trays’-1,ih¥ a f
- single game»,-not bad fora =
. vguy“‘w1ios‘e points~per'-T5
* A game avera'ge:'_is 9.8..  A
 . .1 .i‘osephine"‘;Howi‘.far_‘.?‘." 

   

 

gotern A arrcAlry.etloo1; Alve-
tlt_;iril<-—1lie_,.:l;eeps7f’liis’: curly ‘A  

   
  
 
  
 
 

  

 

 

3” _,I..atoy‘a;. ‘ tcl.’l-arework,-' "
ing en.o,riego£~those sports

;forecastingltotlines, where  .
A .A.. .  _eAmA

 

 
 

think I will call‘ it 1‘-900-” 
 Wzhat...d0A  _

      
 
     
 

S

(1112 ﬂing-mm iﬂlii

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

This Week:

MBB—Bridgewater 0 1/21
WBB—Meredith 0 1/2 1
Wrest—W&L invitational 01/22

Swim—at North Carolina 01/22

JANUARY 21, 1994

rt ake Ovvonents

File photo

Members of the Washington and Lee wrestling team execute drills in the A. E. Mathis Wrestling Room.

Randolph-Macon b-ball
squeaks past Generals

By Ki-:iTH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

With the Jan. 19 game at Emory and Henry
postponed, the men’s basketball team has had their
attention focused on the Jan. 21 meeting at the
Warner Center with Bridgewater.

When they last met nearly two months ago, the
Eagles registered a 24-point home-court victory.
The Generals, though, know they are a much-
improved team since that loss.

“We’ve definitely come a long way since the
last [game against Bridgewater],” said sophomore
Derek Carter. “Our confidence is much higher
now, as well as our aggressiveness and intensity.”

Washington and Lee is 5-8 overall and 3-5 in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference. The Generals
have lost three of their last four games, including
the Jan. 15 69-65 home defeat to Randolph-Macon
College. Yellow-Jacket guard Kurt Axe scored a
game-high 29 points to help fight off a strong late
rally by the Generals.

Randolph-Macon led by as many as 18 in the
second half, but the Generals managed to pull
within two in the final minute and had a chance to
tie the game. Senior Matt Newton, who connected
on a career-high four three-point shots in the game,
elected to try for the win and put up a three-pointer
with 10 seconds left. He missed the shot and the
Yellow-Jackets were able to grab the rebound and
close out the contest with a pair of free-throws.

Newton finished with 16 points, while sopho-
more Cam Dyer added 17 to go with his eight
rebounds. Dyer is now averaging a team-high 14.5
points-per-game. The 6’7” forward has been a
large factor in the team’s turnaround from a 1-5
start. Dyer leads seven Generals who are averaging
at least seven points-per-game.

“Our offense has improved a lot,” said Carter,

who has been shooting better than 65 percent from
the field in the new year. “[Thursday] we watched
the tape of the loss to Bridgewater. We have made
a lot of improvements since then.”

A number of players attribute some of the credit
for the turnaround to head coach Verne Canfield
and his staff.

“Some credit definitely goes to the coaches,”
said seniorco—captain Robert Miggins. “We change
our offenses and defenses quite a bit to keep the
other teams off guard.”

Miggins, himself, deserves some credit forturn-
ing up his own game. His scoring and rebounding
statistics have steadily improved to up his averages
to betterthan seven points and six rebounds. Miggins
also moved into third place on the all—time W&L
blocked shot list on Saturday with 49, three ahead
of Chris Jacobs ’91. The track team high-jumper
has blocked six shots in the last three games.

Canfield believes Miggins has had some quick-
ness the senior was not fully aware of. Miggins is
now utilizing that quickness more to create his own
scores.

‘‘I’m definitely trying to be more aggressive,”
Miggins said. “I wasn’t looking to create by driving
to the basket earlier [this season], but now I’m not
passing up those opportunities.”

Another player who has contributed strongly to
the recent stretch of play that has seen the Generals
win four of seven and play consistently well is
freshman Chris Couzen. The graduate of Seton
Hall Prep, a two-time New Jersey state basketball
champion, is third on W&L in scoring at eight
points-per-game and has been a key factor on
offense and defense.

“Chris has done a great job,” said Carter. “He is
always hustling on the court.”

Couzen has won overthe conﬁdence of Canfield.
The Generals run of improved play has coincided
with Couzen’s insertion into the starting lineup.
Versus R-MC, Canfield showed just how confident

he is ofthe 6’1” freshman
by matching him up

against the YelIow-Jack-
ets 6’6” Dan Prescott.
Prescott was subsequently
limited to well below his
shooting and scoring av-‘
erages by Couzen. '

,AIn spite of the cool he

displays on the court,
Couzen admits to some
difficulties in adjusting to
college ball.

“The competition is
much better. You have to
be mentally prepared for
every game,” he said.
“There have been some
ups and downs so far. I

want to get my play on an
even level.” /,3
Like/his ammates,

Couzen believest eGen-
erals are a much different
team than the one that suf-
fered a 74-50 loss to
Bridgewateﬁ the last time
they met. ‘

“If we can play the
game we’re capable of
playing,” said Couzen,
“we can beat them.”

File photo

Senior Matt Newton is averaging 9.4 points-per-game for the

Generals, the second-leading scorer.

 

Women’s Basketball

The women’s basketball team fell to the Mary Washington Eagles last Saturday, 71-29. The Lady
Generals could not recover from a first half, 20-point, shooting spree by the Eagles. A

Freshman Virginia Yoerg scored nine to lead the team, and four Generals led with five boards each.
As of Thursday, Yoerg led the team in points with A A

Compounding the defeat was the team’s loss 0f]Ul'llOr Sarah Aschenbach due to a shoulder injury.
Aschenbach led the Generals in scoring in her only game this season (shejoined the team after Christmas

Break).

Washington and Lee’s record now stands at 5-5. The team’s next game comes tonight versus

Meredith at Warner Center.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

On the strength of last
weekend’s performance, the
Washington and Lee wrestling
teambecameoneofW&L’swin-
ning squads with a 3-2 record.

The Generals responded to the
challengewith animpressiveper-
formance in two dual meets. In
the 28-22 win over Pensacola
Christianjunior Eric Shirley and
Cole Van Nice led the team with
6-0 and 11-1 wins, respectively.

Against Davidson, Adam
Williams notched eight
takedowns to move his season
total to 21. This total leads the
team for the season. Cole Van
Nice leads the team with nine
wins on the year after registering
two more wins in last weekend’s
meet.

‘Both Eric Shirley and Rob
DeClerk prophetically said that
they expected the team to im-

prove as the season wore on and
predicted that the team would do

well last weekend. According to g

DeClerk, the team is fairly young
and will improve as they gain
experience.

The inexperience was no-
where in evidence last weekend
as five Generals scored two wins,

and against Davidson, Owen g

Smith and Cole Van Nice both
won by pin. The Generals will
have a chance to continue their
winning ways with the annual
W&L invitational coming up
this weekend.

The Generals have won three
straight dual meets this season.
The team has put together an
impressive start to the season,
and hopes to continue their suc-
cesses in front of the home crowd
this weekend.

The success of this year’s team
is somewhat surprising since the‘
wrestlers have no seniors on the
team and only a handful ofjun-
iors. As DeCIerk said, the team
is moving to overcome this.

Steve turns from predictions,
heads toward cheap shots

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

OK, so Joe Montana is still
the master of come-from-be-
hind, playoff victories. The
Houston Oilers rediscovered
that fact last Sunday in a 28-20
loss to the Kansas City Chiefs.
At this point, considering my
success rate with predicting the
American Football Conference,
I will hang it up and wish both
KC and Buffalo the best (even
though I cannot help but pull
forthe Bills, I mean as I’ve said
so many times before, they are
such lovable losers).

The National Football Con-
ference has turned out exactly
as expected with San Francisco
and Dallas vying for the Con-
ference Championship and a
trip to Atlanta. Come on, did
anyone really think the NFC
Central would still have a team
inthe runningatthispoint?The
49er’s put on a clinic against
the New York Giants in their
44-3 rout. The question of the
week is whetheror not the Steve
Young, Jerry Rice led Niners
can come up withthe sametype
of performance two games in a
row. .

Dallas looked a little shaky
in their win over Green Bay.
The Cowboys face a tough chal-
lenge against the Niners. Either
way, the game should be memo-
rable. Here is where I go out on
a limb and stick to my guns.

Dallas should be the NFC repre-
sentative in the Georgia Dome.

Once again, the week was a
topsy-turvy one in college bas-
ketball. Arkansas, Kentucky,
Kansas, and North Carolina all
suffered defeats.

Right now the top two spots
look to be UCLA and Duke come
Monday, but after the way things
have gone so far, one can really
never be sure.

Falling under the topic of

“completely unrelated stuff,” I
wouldjust like to complain about
the radio stations here. In North
Carolina, we at least pick up UNC
and Wake Forest on the radio.
On the other hand, when I was in
the office writing this stupid col-
umn, I was forced to listen to a
VMI game (for those of you liv-
ing in a hole far away from Phi
Delt, VMI stands for Virginia
Military Institute).

I don’t want to knock VMI
(chuckle), but they arejust not a
powerhouse basketball team.
However, for those of us seeking
a higher level of competition,
there are always those local high
school games.

Sort-of-pseudocommissioner
Bud Selig has agreed to the pro-
posed expanded playoff system
in major league baseball. The
system will be composed ofthree
division champions andtwowild
card teams.

That means next year we
might have the good fortune to
see baseball’s equivalent of the
NFC Norris division (for those
of you not paying attention last

week,that’sthepowerhouse 5
NFC Central division in foot-
ball.). Oh, we can only
dream.

Parting Shots-

Buffalo is a step away.
my friends.

I personally think Tonya P
Harding had to have some-
thing to do with it, Sarah,
even if she is from Portland.

The number one ranking
seems to have the same af-
fect on teams this year as the
Sports Illustrated cover. As Q
soon as a team is elevated to
that lofty height, they crash
and burn.

On a happy note, spring
training starts in about a
month. Then baseball sea-
son will have officially be- A
gun.

As ifthe talent pool is not
dilutedenough,majorleague
baseball is considering ex-
panding again. Ifanyone still
entertains ideas that expan-
sion is a good thing, just
repeat after me~Me.s, Pa- '
dres, Rockies. As the talent
pool becomes more diluted,
we’ll see more teams with
110 losses, and teams with
110 wins. To me, that re-
moves a lot of the interest
from the game. ‘

Anyway, that concludes
my tirade for the week.
Hopefully, next week, I’ll
be in a better mood and actu-
ally write something pleas-
ant about someone. Nah, that
wouldn’t be any fun. 

Swimmers drop two,
fall to Catholic Univ. '

 

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

All good things must eventually come to an end.
This apparently was also the case for the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s and women’s swi teams this
past weekend as the Generals suffered losses to
Catholic.

On the men’s side, the Generals were in the
midst of a I6-meet win streak prior to Saturday‘s
loss. Catholic was also the last team to defeat the
Generals prior to the start of the win streak. The
l17.5—86.5 score did leave some room for solid
individual performances, though.

Junior Tony Diederich won the 200-yard
freestyle and sophomore David Stillman won the
50 yard freestyle. Stillman’s time in the 50-free
was W&L’s top time in that event on the year.

The Generals visit Chapel Hill this weekend to
compete against Johns Hopkins and Emory. The
W&L swimmers will try to begin a new streak at
the Chapel Hill meet.

The women narrowly missed victory, losing by
the score of 106—99 to Catholic for their first loss
of the season. Staci Bertelli and Rebekah Prince
each contributed two wins forthe Generals. Against
Buffalo State earlier, seven different swimmers
won races in a 121-57 rout. Bertelli set W&L
season bests in the 500-yard freestyle and the 200
-ard ﬂy.

The women had a home meet against Mary
Baldwin canceled this week. Washington and Lee
carries an 18-meet conference winning streak into
their next conference meet. Like the men, the
women will be traveling to the University of North
Carolina this weekend. Following this weekend,

I the Generals have two more home meets on the

schedule, versus Franklin and Marshall and Hollins.

Both squads are shooting for strong ﬁnishes this
year. With the focus of both teams, and the stead’
improvement shown so far, the two teams can’! be
far from their goal.

Photo b Sarah Gilbert, The Fl/ng-rum Phi
Junior Susan Fisher grins as she pre-
pares to extend the Generals’ confer-
ence streak in Saturday's meet.

 

