   

- ‘v---< A

wAsi»»iiNGToN 5. i.».;..: LJJ;V£Ei7iSllTY

 
 

 

L'.:.XlNGTON, VA 24450

NW 0 5 i993"

,‘?lin’t your Eusiness anyhow...
ﬂiutﬁor 91/[c‘l/Viffiams discusses con-
sensuaf crimes across the 11.5. 9

Football victorious
Bridgewater defeated 41- 16
Mason breaks records

 

he ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

VOLUME 93, NO. 09

EC Warns
Zollman’s
erashers

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

By TOM HESPOS
Phi News Editor

Members of the Executive Committee nearly

“lﬁt it ride” Monday, when it was announced
that several students had misrepresented them-

selves in order to get into a Halloween party.

Second—year Law Representative Kevin
Webb said Monday that complaints had been

received about students using other students’

identities to gain entrance to a multi-fratemity

pagty. The party, held at Zollman’s Pavilion,

had a guest list of people who would be admit-

ted to see the Dave Matthews Band.

“One dude’s name got used, like, fourtimes,”

said Webb.

EC President Bob Tompkins drew parallels
to last year’s Lip Synch party, when students

regmedly snuck in without paying.
“Both of these kind of things are bad,” said
Tompkins.

After several EC members expressed that
the EC should forget about the incident and “let
it ride,” Junior Class EC Representatice Alex
Cross suggested the EC draw up a student body

noﬁce, condemning the situation.

The EC also heard from Vice President

Jimmy Kull about avoiding the city car tax.

Kull said the city can charge students for their
cars only if they can prove that the car is
garaged in Lexington for 6 months out of the

year.

ccording to Kull, if a student keeps his or
her car in town for the school year, the car will

be present in Lexington for six months and
seven weeks. Kull said if students can keep
their cars out of town for seven weeks, students
can avoid the car tax.

“Don’t let the city scare the students,” said

Klw.

Photo by Patrick Hinely

Thanks for the memories....

A. Stevens Miles ‘51, left, rector of the Board of Trustees of Washington and Leeiuniversity, accepts a
resolution of appreciation from Lexington Mayor H.E. “Buddy" Derrick. The resolution recognizes W&L:s
contributions to the city's wql being through cultural activities, involvement of students, faculty and staff in

a variety of activites, economic beneﬁt, and Fraternity Renaissance Program.

NOVEMBER 5, 1993

Pledgeship

rules

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

The Interfraternity Council
voted to pass deferred pledgeship
policies at its meeting on Tues-
day.

The new regulations restrict
the treatment of pledges by fra-
ternity brothers.

The new policies permit fresh-
men to attend one weekly chap-
ter meeting (not a pledge meet-
ing); freshmen may participate
in house clean-ups after week-
end parties between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and noon on Saturday
and Sunday as long as an equal
number of active members also
participate; freshmen may serve
as sober drivers on the weekends
no more than once a month as
long as at least one active mem-
ber is also assigned that chapter
duty; freshmen may participate
in service and philanthropy
projects which are chapter rather
than pledge activities.

The new regulationsalsocarry
with them new penalties. On the
ﬁrst offense, the fraternity loses

one week of pledgeship and ob-
tains one week of social proba-

tion. On the second offense, the
fraternity loses twoadditional
weeks of pledgeship, receives
two weeks of social probation,
pays a ﬁne of $25 perpledge, and
the IF C notiﬁes the National Fra-

set

temity and Housing Corporation.
On the third offense, the frater-
nity receives probable referral to
the Student Affairs Committee.

Responses to the changes have
been mixed, although the mea-
sure was passed unanimously at
the IFC meeting on Tuesday
night. Alvin Townley, freshman
class president, said “Deferred
pledgeship benefits freshmen a
great deal by allowing those of us
who decide to pledge a fraternity
several months to adjust to the
academic demands and social
pressures of colle ge without hav-
ing to also deal with the rigors of
formal pledgeship. At this point
most of us are still learning to
manage our time well and the
time that formal pledgeship con-
sumes would make things much
more difﬁcult.”

Sasha Hartman, freshman
class vice-president, said that
from a woman’s point of view,
“If there is any feasible way to
enforce it, then it’s great. But I
can’t see a pledge turning in his
fraternity brothers.”

IFC members cited enforce-

ment as_ a problem with the new
regulations. Ryan Donaldson

noted in the last IFC meetings
that while the council will not
seek our pledgeship violations in
the manner that it sought out rush
violations, reports of violations
will be investigated.

Dorm visits confuse

Security suspects Cadaver entered rooms

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

The Cadaver Society is ﬁnally
getting some publicity.

The Cadaver Society is a se-
cret society that bills itself as
“friends of the university”. Ac-
cording to Washington and Lee

‘ director of security Mike Young,
. the Oociety has made numerous

monetary donations to‘ W&L.

‘However, the group is better

known for its late-night poster-
hanging forays on campus.

A man who security officials
believe to be a member of the
secutt society entered rooms 103
and 109 in Graham-Lees dorm
early on Oct. 27. The man ﬂed
when he realized that the occu-
pants of the rooms were awake.

Dorm Counselor Allen
Gillespie said an average sized-
mag between 5’ 10” and 6’,
weighing about 170 lbs. and
wearing dark-colored clothing
entered his room (109) at about
3:45 a.m., about 15 minutes after
he had gone to bed. Gillespie
admitted his room was dark, but
said that light coming from the
hallgvay behind the man framed
him in the open doorway.

“I’d been up late that night
writing a paper with one of my
freshmen,” Gillespie said.
“Within 10 to 15 minutes of go-

ing to bed I woke up and saw
someone in my room.”

Gillespie said that when the
man realized he was awake, he
took off across the parking lot
behind the dorm.

“I yelled stop, but he took off
running,” Gillespie said.

Gillespie said he saw three
people dressed in black ﬂee from
near the stairs leading to the foot-
bridge, a total of four people.
Gillespie returned to his room
and called campus security, but
left again to check his car. He
said he was afraid of a possible
burglary.

‘‘I went back to my room and
put on pants— I was in my under-
wear and it was kind of cold out
there. There was paint on the
stairs where they were squatting.”
Gillespie said he also saw a stack
of Cadaver Society posters on
the ground nearwhere they were.
Ther e is also a newly painted
Cadaver symbol on the stairs
leading to the Footbridge.

The reporting security ofﬁ-
cer, Fred Ryan, said he went to
the parking lots behind the gym
when he got the call. When he
arrived, he saw two cars parked
side by side in the otherwise
empty lower lot. Both sped away
in opposite directions. Ryan fol-
lowed one vehicle — a black
Jeep wagon, possibly a Chero-
kee or a Wrangler, he said. Ryan

saw four young males in the car.

‘‘I believe it was an out-of-
state license plate,” Ryan said.
‘‘It didn’t appear to be a Virginia
license plate. The number se-
quence corresponds to Louisi-
ana.”

Ryan said that the car is not
listed in the student vehicle reg-
istry, but it is “a campus-type
vehicle with a W&L sticker.”

Ryan called the Lexington
police that night . The police ran
the license number sequence —
three numbers, a letter, then three
more numbers -—~ Ryan had writ-
ten down through the police com-
puters, but no match was found.
Ryan said either the number he
took down was incorrect or the
computer network was down.
Ryan had not checked the num-
ber with the Louisiana Depart-
ment of Motor Vehicles.

Freshman Doug Ghertner in
room 103 said that he was half-
awake when a man entered his
room, but he turned over in bed,
apparently frightening the man
away.

Security found two Cadaver
Society posters in the Graham
bees hall where Gillespie and
Ghertner live. Cadaver posters
and signs were out on campus the
next morning, as well as the
painted Cadaver Society symbol
on the Footbridge steps. There
are also Cadaver Society sym-
bols painted on the outside wall
and windowsill beneath the win-

if

, Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
VMI ofﬁcials said Cadet Phillip Watson’s statement is enough to clear his name without any further evidence.

VMI ends investigation

Cadet denies sending racial threats to himself

notes contained racial overtones.

it was a hoax. They haven’t said anything.”

 

dowof Graham-Lees room 109,
which is next door to Ghertner’s
room.

Director of W&L Security
Mike Young said there have been
no reports of Cadavers entering
dorm rooms in the three years he
has worked here. Ryan also said
this is the ﬁrst report in the ﬁve
years he has worked as a security
guard for W&L of Cadavers en-
tering dorm rooms.

“I don’t think they’re bad
people,” Young said. “But from
time to time some members try to
outdo the other members. This is
all speculation, but I don’t think
it’s unreasonable.

“It’ll probably probably cool
their jets when this comes out in
the newspaper.”

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Although state police and the FBI con-
cluded their investigations of racial threats
allegedly made to a Virginia Military Insti-
tute cadet, VMI’s investigation continued
until today.

Colonel Mike Strickler of the VMI public
relations office said that state police deter-
mined the incident “was a hoax. There was
no racial motivation and no threat to the
safety of the cadet.” But Strickler said the
internal VMI investigation will continue un-
til today and will conclude whether or not a
culprit is found.

The investigations stemmed from a series
of threatening notes sent to first—year, or
senior, black cadet Phillip Watson. Watson
received a total of three notes, each more
threatening than its predecessor. Two of the

Media reports last weekend said Watson
himself wrote and sent the notes. But Watson
read a statement to the corps of cadets Mon-
day and to Channel 10 Tuesday stating his
innocence.

“News reports that appeared last Satur-
day, October 30, contained several distorted
statements,” stated Watson. “To be speciﬁc,
the letters that I received several weeks ago
were not written by me, nor do I know who
wrote them. I have worked hard during my
nine semesters here to support the corps and
the Institution. I hope that you, the corps, will
now help me clear my name and set the
record straight.”

Strickler said state police concluded the
letters were a hoax when Watson told police
that he “didn’t mean for it to go this far.”
Strickleradded the police “did not say Watson
initiated the letters. They [the police] deter-
mined from their investigation that they felt

“People could have taken the FBI state-
ment to say Watson initiated the hoax,”
Strickler said. “It could be construed as
that.”But, Strickler added, “The fact is that
he has placed his honor on the line.”

If a culprit is found within the student
body, discipline will be severe and could
include dismissal from the institute, accord-
ing to Strickler. VMI Superintendent Major
General John Knapp said in the Oct. 8 edition
of the The Ring-tum Phi that “the initiator of
the notes, if and when he is caught, will be
summarily dismissed and his name will be
turned over to the police.”

Knapp recently said that Watson’s state-
ment to the corps and to the press was sufﬁ-
cient to clear his name under the VMI Honor
System.

“Absent evidence to the contrary, that is
all we need in the VMI system to relieve him
of any suspicion.”

 

 
  

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Eleven-year-olds go to trial in
toddler death

Two English 11-year-olds are the youngest people in Britain
to ever be charged with murder after they allegedly killed a 2-
year-old toddler who wandered away from his mother at a
shopping mall. James Bulger was killed in February after he
disappeared while accompanying his mother to a butcher shop.
The boy wandered off and was found dead two days later. The
two older boys were photographed with the child in the mall
after he had wandered off.

Chretien takes over as Prime
Minister of Canada

Liberal Party Leader Jean Chretien took over as prime
minister of Canada Thursday after the Labor Party was cata-
pulted into power in reaction to voter dissatisfaction with the
economy. The Liberals pulverized the opposition in last week’s
general election, winning 177 of the 295 seats in the House of
Commons. Kim Campbell, who became Canada’s first woman
prime minister after taking over for Brian Mulroney, submitted
her govemment’s resignation at 10 a.m. Thursday. An hour and
a half later, Christien and his Cabinet were sworn in.

The Nation

Director killed in Malibu fires

Helicopters dumped huge containers of seawater on the
ﬂames as ﬁreﬁghters continued to ﬁght an arson fire in Malibu
that claimed 200 homes and killed a man. Although Wednesday
brought relief in the form of moist ocean breezes that allowed
ﬁreﬁghters to contain a small part of the blaze, gusts of wind
posed a continual threat to homes. Director-screenwriter Duncan
Gibbons was burned while attempting to rescue a cat from the
house where he was staying. Gibbons later died. He was 41.

Man who built stealth model
two years early unveils plane

 

A model designer for Testor Corp. claims he has worked out
an accurate model of a new U.S. spy plane that can ﬂy at seven
times the speed of sound. The United States Air Force denies
that any such plane exists. However, the last time‘ Testors did
this, it turned out to be an accurate model of the then-secret
stealth fighter. The plane the model represents can supposedly
ﬂy at 5,200 m.p.h. The current record-holder, the SR-71
Blackbird, can travel at 2,193 m.p.h.

Packwood prepares for court

After being defeated in the Senate, Senator Bob Packwood is
preparing to go to court to keep his personal diaries out of
investigators’ hands looking into allegations of sexual miscon-
duct and criminal wrongdoing. Packwood said the Senate
Ethics Committee has no right to rummage through his diaries,
which he called “very very personal.”

River Phoenix autopsy
inconclusive

Investigators are awaiting test results to learn whether drugs
caused the death of actor River Phoenix after an inconclusive
autopsy. Phoenix, 23, died early Sunday after collapsing
outside a Los Angeles nightclub. Paramedics that arrived on the
scene were told Phoenix had been taking drugs and tests found
cocaine and Valium in his bloodstream.

The  

License plate case
goes to federal court

A man whose vanity license tags reading “GOVT SUX” were
canceled by the state has taken his case to federal court to have
the plates reinstated. Mark Steckbeck, 34, of Arlington, ﬁled a
suit Tuesday in the U.S. District Court in Alexandria, saying his
First Amedment rights were violated by the State Department of
Motor Vehicles.

Allen predicts smooth transition

Govemor-elect George Allen said he and Governor Douglas
Wilder will work closely in order to ensure a smooth transition
after 12 years of democratic control. Allen pummeled Democrat
Mary Sue Terry in elections on Tuesday. Allen said he antici-
pates few problems in getting his programs through the Demo-
crat-controlled General Assembly. ,1 ~- 1:

Sports 5

AL, NL bestow Cy You

Greg Maddux won his second straight National League Cy
Young award and J ack McDowell became the first member of
the Chicago White Sox to win a Cy Young in a decade. Rumors
have circulated that the White Sox may trade McDowell if an
agreement cannot be reached on a multi-year contract. Maddux
is the first player to win the Cy Young in consecutive years with
different teams.

      

Pg .

     

N IFC chooses W&L for program

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

National lnterfraternity Conference Representative Richard
Kurila speaks to students about the merits of Adopting a school.

Dog owners continue
to get city violations

By JOEL SYMONDS
Phi Contributing Writer

Many Washington and Lee students
have been fined by the City of Lexing-
ton for various “dog offenses” since
the beginning of the school year.

Lexington now requires that all dogs
be on a leash, be in the company of the
owner, have a rabies vaccine and have
a city dog tag.

Lexington Dog Warden R.D. Clark
has given out 24 fines since Sept. 1.
Eighteen of the ﬁnes were for “dogs at
large”.

Clark picked up senior Don Skelly ’s

dog for being at large. The dog was
consequently taken to the Animal Shel-
ter, where Skelly had to pick up his dog
and pay a $41 ﬁne. Skelly calls the dog
law a “fascist oppression of W&L’s
dogs.”

Lexington Chief of Police Bruce M.
Beard said the laws were made in an
attempt to prevent the destruction of
property by dogs and to “keep animals
contained to the owner’s property.”

“The student body has been com-
plying better than in previous years,”
Beard said.

He added that he felt the number of
students ﬁned was pretty low.

Cold-check
covers students

V By KATHLEEN Qurru<_
7"" Phi Staff Writer '

What should you do when you sud-
denly realize that your account won’t
cover the check you wrote last week?
Don ’t panic, W&L’s Cold Check Com-
mittee has probably already taken care
of it for you.

The Washington and Lee Cold
Check Committe'e covers bad checks
written by W&L students.

“Basically, if a student writes a bad
check, we just cover it and try to get the
student to pay it off,” said committee
member Alex Churchill.

The Executive Committee founded

the committee about 10 years ago with
the intent that student checks could
cotne to be accepted in town, accord-
ing to committee chair Pat Smith.

“Merchants don’t have to worry
about student checks,” Smith said.
“They can accept them without ques-
tioning. If you bounce a check at, say,
The Palms, we cover it.”

The student is then called to a meet-
ing to repay the committee. There is
also a fine, usually around ﬁve dollars,
that can vary “depending on the of-
fense,” said Smith.

The committee has only had one
bad check to cover this year.

“But,” said Smith, “come spring
term, we get a lot more.”

The Ring-tum PhLNovember 5. 1993

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

National lnterfraternity Conference
Representative Richard Kurila was on
campus Wednesday to discuss its
Adopt-A-School program.

The goal of the program is to estab-
lish one-on-one relationships with at-
risk students at the elementary school
level. Kurila, a senior at Lynchburg
College, is the regional director for the
program.

The program is sponsored by a
$99,500 start-up grant from the W.K.
Kellogg Foundation of Battle Creek,
Michigan, to implement the program
at 85 pilot colleges and universities
throughout the nation. Washington
and Lee was chosen as one of those

E schools. Part of the reason is W&L’s

strong Greek system.

The program has ﬁve basic seg-
ments. The ﬁrst is the ‘Community
Voice segment. During this stage, the
participants get out to the schools and
determine need and set up the program.
The second stage, Orientation Semi-
nars, stress commitment and training

     
  
    
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
     

for the program. Meaningful Action,
the third stage, allows the college stu-
dents to work with and encourage their
assigned student. This is done through
two hour-sessionsaweek. Abimoﬂthly
meeting is the fourth stage of the Adopt-
A-School program. The Reflection
stage allows students to talk with oth-
ers about methods and share success
stories. The ﬁnal stage, Evaluation,
allows the participants and schools to
look at the program, find areas in Qeed
of improvement, and suggest solutions.
Kurila is responsible for explaining
and organizing the Adopt-A-School
program at Lynchburg College, Uni-
versity of Richmond, George Mason
University, College of William and
Mary, and Washington and Leeﬂlnin,
versity. l
Associate Dean of Students Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins volunteered to serve
as a coordinator to the program. “This
program could be in place by the be-.
ginningof the winterterm,afterChristi
mas,” Atkins said. .
He and Kurila hope that the 16
fraternities, four sororities, and other
interested organizationson campuswill
make this program a success.

By CATHY RESMER
Phi Contributing Writer

Fund can help ’*
Journalists

Journalism students at Washing-
ton and Lee will soon be receiving a
helping hand, thanks tothe creation
of the Tau Mu Phi fund.

The Tau Mu Phi’s Greek letters
are an acronym for the phrase “sup-
porters of the student voice.” The
fund can beneﬁt any student inter-
ested in journalism. It is a non-
profit, charitable trust created last
April by three former editors of The
Ring-tum Phi: Cathryn Lopiccolo
and Rick Peltz, both 1993 gradu-
ates, and Patricia Lopes, ’91.

The fund was created to provide
students with outside contacts in the
fields of law and journalism, and to
provide resources that will enhance
journalism education in the class-
rooms. One of the ways the three
founders of the fund hope to accom-
plish this is by providing a link be-
tween students and alumni that is
independent of the university. The
creators of Tau Mu Phi also hope to
one day be able to provide money
for scholarships and equipment pur-
chases and to bring speakers to cam-
pus.

Another goal of the founders of
Tau Mu Phi is to aid the creation of
new publications. Because there are
so few student-produced publica-
tions available to W&L students,
the Tau Mu Phi founders feel that
more forums are needed for stu-

   
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
   
   
    
     
  
   
  
   
  

dents to express their views. Thgy
said the addition of more student-
produced publications and possibly
the addition of new broadcast sta-
tions will beneﬁt the entire campus
by broadening the scope of view-
points to which W&L students and
faculty are exposed. '

Lopiccolo hopes that new publi-
cations, “might be ableto spursome
debate” about issues of public inter-
est.

The monetary goals, as
Lopiccolo was quick to explain,will
not be realized immediately. Tﬂe
Tau Mu Phi fund was created just
last year and its ﬁnancial base is not
yet large enough to support exten-
sive monetary ventures

Lopiccolo said donations are
being solicited from alumni, as well
as from other nationwide funds, llrt
it will be a few years before the fund
is able to give substantial grants.

The Tau Mu Phi fund came about ‘
because, as journalism majors,
Lopes, Lopiccolo and Peltz all felt
that W&L journalism students
needed outside help. Peltz said the
school’s current method of provid-
ing all support through the Execu-
tive Committee and the University
“makes you overly dependent on
student government and the univer-
sity and it inhibits your ability to do
your job.” §

Lopiccolo said the Tau Mu Phi
fund was created because its
founders “want to make your job as
journalism students easier.”

  

  

What are you doing’?

 
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
  

   
 

Photo by Bathany Smith, The Ring-tum Qhi

 

Occasionally students catch a photographer in the act. But the weather will rapidly change, leaving little opportunity for
photographs of students studying outside. Weather reports say there is a chance of snow tlurries this weekend.

 
  

    

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5,1993

Bestselling

By @tl’Z1i£{‘J/Vi[T11i71£qt0Tl I
’.Pfii ffeatures £t{itor

     
      

When is the last time you read a book that
proposed to legalize drugs and prostitution,
reinterpret the Bible and generate $200 billion
dlars per year for the national government
along the way?

Ain ’t Nobody ’s Business If You Do , pub-
lished earlier this fall, aspires to such colossal
goals and more. This is the kind of book that
reviewers love to call ‘an ambitious project.’

Nobody ’s Business is ambitious in the way
thg a book report on the Encyclopedia Brittanica
might be considered ambitious.

The subtitle of the book, The Absurdity of
Consensual Crimes in a Free Society, offers
readers a glimpse of what author Peter

. McWilliams has in store for them in the next

815 pages. That McWilliams chose to use the

' . tit of a Bessie Smith blues as the title instead

,.

of c more descriptive subtitle is a signiﬁcant
commentary on his instinct for combining an
informal, often playful, style with seemingly
unapproachably serious topics.

It is hard to imagine any American disagree-
ing with McWilliams’ thesis: “You should be
able to do whatever you want with your own
peﬁon or property, as long as you don’t physi-

cally harm the person or property of another.”

The disagreements come when McWilliams
applies his thesis to activities considered con-

1 sensual crimes in America. Aconsensual crime

is an action that is against the law, but does not

1: hann anyone’s person or property. If his thesis

is Dccepted as an unconditional, fundamental

. characteristic of a free society, McWilliams

argues no consensual activity can be consid-
ered a crime.

A brief list of some existing consensual
crimes McWilliams believes should be legal-
ized includes: prostitution, drug usage, po-
lygimy, homosexuality, pornography, assisted
suicide, public drunkenness, and transvestism.
He approaches each issue assuming that most
readers have grown up conditioned to consider
certain consensual activities as unquestionably
criminal.

The final judgment on the validity of
M Williams’ conclusions rests on the readers’
wil ingness to apply the idea of personal free-
dom to all circumstances—especially those
usually considered taboo.

He resists the idea of being labeled a liberal
or conservative. McWilliams said the ideas
presented in the book represent “the essence of
co ervatism and the essence of liberalism and
the essence of what Jesus taught. Conservatism
is based upon individual responsibilities, small
government and business.”

Much of the strength of McWilliams’ asser-
tions in the book comes from his comprehen-

, sive research of the history of speciﬁc laws and

tabs) activities.
ne area where McWilliams will almost

' certainly be attacked is his argument for the

‘legalization of drugs. He called this concept
“simply pragmatic.”
His chapter on the recreational use of drugs

A includes historical studies of the uses of popu-

11

   
 

 

VOIKLI

DION): VJUIIN

return
. ..   ,

‘I/I/eﬁ“L ife

iNobody’s Business is good business

author aims to legalize consensual crimes

lar drugs and the
physiological and

vote...Tyranny has
always come in

I

psychological ef-  through the active
fects of those ' . minority and the
drugs. P 1 Christian Coali-

McWil1iams’    tion is a minority.
narrative describ- L The old enemies,
in g the powers be- A Catholics and Prot-
hind theoutlawing I   estants, who used
of marijuana pro- to burn each other,
vides an entirely have banded to-
new perspective gether.”
on the anti-drug The longest
campaigns of re- sectionofthebook
cent years. is devoted to ex-

He traces the aminingChristian-
eventual govern- ityintertnsofcon-
ment ban on mari- sensual crime.
juana, or hemp, to The most
abusmess concern unique and surpris-
of William ing aspect of
Randolph Hearst Nobody’sBusiness
and the DuPont M I , ~ is McWilliams’
Corrioratgon. d “'76 ADSl»t't'0'll,:t) Of 1 7 8 — p a g 3

“ n t e mi -  ., .. , -~ ' , review an
1930’s, machin- (“fm‘sU1‘Md( C’)./ml“ reinterpretation of
ery was perfected in at ,l3‘i’(i£3 SOClEi.)1 theteachingsofthe

that would allow
the hemp fiber to

Bible. He spends
much of his time

be more easily and giving his view on
economically the teachings of
separated from the Jesus.

plant...Hearst not “You may, like
only printednews- m e , w o n d e r :
papers; he made ; .  ‘Where do these
thepaperonwhich *-W 1«)§3“57 evangelicals get
to print them. If _i\,jCV\‘.rfl[;‘am5 off taking a nice
hemp became the man like Jesus and
primary source of using him to jus-
paper...much of tify their igno-
Hearst’s paper rance, intolerance,
m a c h i n e r y and personal

[would] become
obsolete...DuPont
...had just patented
a process for mak-
ing paper from
wood pulp...The
process, which re-
lied heavily on
DuPont chemi-
cals, was not nec-
essary in manu-
facturing paper
from hemp. Addi-
tionally, DuPont
had...perfected the
miracle fiber
nylon...lnexpensive,
readily grown
hempﬁberswould
put a damper on
two of DuPont’s
future money
makers...Make of these facts what you will.
One thing is certain: Hearst and DuPont made
a fortune thanks to the prohibition on hemp.”

McWilliams goes on to show how Hearst
used his newspapers and magazines to prompt
the government campaign against hemp and
the eventual ban in 1937.

Though not discussed in the book,
McWilliams likes to draw a parallel between
Prohibition and the War on Drugs .

S

“Both political parties were behind
[Prohibition]...Education was behind it...They
taught if you took one drink, you’re life was
ruined,” said McWilliams.

He believes that religion is the basis for most
of the support behind consensual crime laws
including the ban on drugs.

“The opposition is a religious issue,” said
McWilliams, “They’re well ﬁnanced and well
organized and well aware that people don’t

‘.3

     

with old drive

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

Who says old dogs can’t learn new tricks?

Often, success is just a matter of remember-
ing old tricks, or, in the case of Rush, getting
back to the sound that spawned their success.

With their new release, Counterparts, the
time-tested trio of Neil Peart, Geddy Lee, and
Alex Lifeson moves away from the increas-
ingly mellow tunes of Presto and their most
recent release, Roll the Bones. Whether or not
this is an improvement is left up to the discression
of the buyer, but for me the album stands above
Roll the Bones as a success.

Right from the start, Counterparts pulses
with an energy that was lacking in most of the
two previous albums.

The lead single, “Animate”, sets the tone for
the other 10 songs. The tempo is upbeat, but not
to the point of incomprehensible thrash. Rush
seems to have found that delicate middle ground
between the early releases (Rush,Hemispheres,
etc.) and the latest mature efforts.

On any successful album, there are failed
concepts. Rush is by no means exempt from
this fact. “Alien Shore” is the weakest tune on
the album, and, along with “Cut to the Chase,”
just maintains a confused rythm. These are
more than atoned forwith the power of “Double
Agent” and “Cold Fire.” “Cold Fire” might
possibly be the best song on the release if for no
other reason than sheer drive and force.

The closest approach to the sound of Roll the
Bones comes with “Nobody’s Hero,” a song
that ties acoustic elements to the “grunge”
sound of the rest of the album to produce a
hybrid sound that leaves the listener riveted.

Once again, however, the real strength of
Rush’s music lies in their lyrics. Neil Peart
once again writes or co-writes all of the songs,
and pieces together the words into a form of art.
Throughout the album, Peart places the deﬁn-
ing stamp on each song with his lyrical signa-
ture.

One listener complained that Rush had no
“drive” in their music. With Counterparts, the
band has recaptured the spirit of their early
work and combined it with the maturity that
comes from almost twenty years of experience.

prejudice,”
McWilliams says
in the introductory
chapter ‘Consen-
sual Crimes and
the Bible.’

He goes on to
reinterpret almost
every Biblical
verse used to sup-
port the existence
of consensual
crime laws.

»

tend to upset con-
servatives. Some
recent deﬁnitions
of sexual harass-
ment and rape have
him up in arms.

The concept of responsibility and consent
are very cut and dry issues for McWilliams. “If
you’re in a situation then you have given con-
sent. If you say no or walk away, you take it
away,” he said. “You ’ve got to be able to say no
and get up and walk out.”

McWilliams believes people need to re-
examine their deﬁnitions of responsibility.
People need to ask “Are you responsible be-
cause you say no or is the other person respon-

McWilliams’«

‘ PAGE 3

sible for not asking?” he said. Rape shouldn’t
be a case where “If you are largerand she thinks
you might overpower her—that’s nonsense.”

McWilliams doesn’t want to seem insensi-
tive to harassment or rape issues, though. “It’s
a very serious business (rape)...Men need to
learn that they do not have the right to have sex
with a girl because they went out on a date. But
people get caught up in all the nonsense...The
people who need to realize the idea of consent
use the nonsense to point out how they don’t
need to learn anything.”

McWilliams includes a state-by-state chart
at the back of the book comparing the status of
laws against consensual activities in the United
States.

Virginia is notable for being one of the states
with laws against all but one of the charted
activities. Some people may be surprised to
learn that laws have been passed forbidding
heterosexual oral sex, fornication, and cohabi-
tation but not assisted suicide.

McWilliams said the age of consent for each
state is also included “to compare and con-
trast.” “lt’s astonishing that 13 is the age of
consent in New Mexico...you don’t usually
think of New Mexico as a heathen state,” he
said. McWilliams thinks it is also worth noting
that the age of consent ranges from 13 in New
Mexico to 19 in Wyoming.

He believes these laws haven’t caught up
with changes in society. “You talk to someone
about 13 or 14 year olds and they’re like ‘Oh my
God! They’re so innocent!’ Give me a break.
13, so what? I knew what I was looking for. I
knew what I was doing.”

One of McWilliams’ primary motivations
for writing the book is his anger that an incred-
ible amount of effort and money are wasted
punishing crimes which harm no one. He points
out that arrests and related fees for enforcing
consensual crime laws cost the country $50
billion dollars per year.

If legalized drugs were taxed and 6 million
jobs were created from formerly illegal activi-
ties (prostitution, polygamy), McWilliams es-
timates the United States would pull in an extra
$200 billion per year.

His suggestions for the uses of the extra
money are a good example of the playfulness
that permeates the book.

With $200 billion dollars, we could “Pay off
the national debt in twenty years...allow the
Pentagon to purchase 23 wrenches, 16 office
chairs, and 243 paper clips...send a check for

«$87,000 to every rhighischool graduate for.fur-
.views. ‘.are,n.’t salsa ftberirig bi$’br .her.eduQations1LfQrrstarting.real
‘W3')'S31h.°ﬁyP€ ijhatfil lifscasend teVt:ry**p¢fS£m;f)V.cr\!85«zyears old a
V check. for $66,000 with a note saying, - ‘Hey,

congratulations!’...or buy President Clinton
100,502,513,000 Big Macs.”

As for the 350,000 people currently in jail
for consensual crimes, McWilliams said, “We
are in a lot of trouble as a nation and we need to
use every resource we have available.”

Nobody ’s Business was published less than
two months ago and is only now making its way
to review columns and best-seller lists.

Because McWilliams’ fascinating combi-
nation of humor and persuasive intensity makes
the content of the book more accessible than
any previous work on the subject, Nobody’:
Business will probably become one of the most
inﬂuential books published in this decade.

 

 

 

W&LIF E

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5,1993 ‘

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

off the mark

Pluggers

by Mark Parisi by Jeff MacNe11y

      

OH)cﬁD”l   I/23

pATERNiTY‘5UlT-- -

 

4
/0199: Yllbum mar: services. inc [Pluggll$, in:
Al rig:-is usovuu

ii--.1

We pluggers never.manage to check .
our anti-freeze. on a. warm day,

CAPTAN i<iRi< lN RETiREMENT $5“
at?

IQIHVA VNVN Uﬁlﬂ

 

‘ores: tnouno Moot: sorvlou. Inc.
Al aiym no

ufvld,

   
 
 
 

 

  
  
 

YEAH, THIS IS THE GUY!
WE 6.01" HIM ./

 

     

 

   

   

 
 
 
   
 
  
   

 

  

 

Colonnade Crossword
ACROSS 1 u_

1 Quarry   U

5 Eel
10 "— o'clock

scholar“ ill

14 Woe is me! \\_i
15 Suppose -
16 Hub " ‘é

17 Covenants i_

19 lndian 3

20 Curve . Z

21 Furnish W E ’ E

22 Near ‘ 2

24 Bowling items 5

25 Merger "'..."." g

26 Most unusual “’

29 Dangerous §

current

32 Explode

33 Unseeing

35 Arrive 0 

34 Stray  .

,6 /ﬁf . iieu.o,PRAnceR. [,5
37 Hodgepodge &  R5M5MB5R M5.7€’OU 7’
38 “— my ,

 NEVER LET ME PLA4 ’
keepeg;-» by Mike Pants    '
39 Loud trumpet @1993 Tribune Media Services. inc. 1 1 /[]5/93 a
Sound All Rights Reserved  ‘H ‘,

40 Parlor Last week’s puzzle solved 1%,‘,

41 Vista 6 Unlocks m ., y I t ' .,' -""1" ii”.

43 Leaped 7 Orange peel ) .' l“'mi't'i|''m’“m ’ml'

44 “—- home is his 8 Picnic pest {j l mil ‘ ll ml?! lhlwﬂ/'
.. . .32°:.e*a$iv @  ..'li,ii«,i' “iiyilw/5”

ccoun an s e ain .

46 — leather newsman (tag tﬁ  -  _ Ii  I ‘I I ,l '

48 Fired 11 Italian dance ____,.._.1 ‘ ‘,-‘  » « .r  I . ..........L.,. 11-3
49 Female 12 Level ““ - --I ’ ""“" ”""“"""
52 Biographer 13 Necessity

Ludwig 18 Tilting
53 Showing 23 Fastened You KNOW
curiosity 24 — Le Moko S H 0 E ’
56 Gad 25 Join 5€é{‘,Eg”,'_%=_,r{,”.,.° 1745 ONLY
57 Lariat 26 Kind of tire by Jeffﬁfxﬂe/[y ‘ MAN FOR
58 Eastern garment 27 Scent THE J05-~
59 Allowance for 28 Meditating
weight 29 Extreme
60 Ground cover 30 Constellation
61 QED word 31 Amiss
33 Rays
DOWN 36 Sloping
1 Yard entrance 37 Paddles
2 Pundifinks ,, 39 Kind of muftjn
3 Lump. . ‘40 Torrent 46, Sassy 50 Wife of Zeus .
4 superlative 42 Egg dish 47 Cupid 51 Amend texts
ending 43 Kin of seeds 48 Greek portico 54 And not
5 Trice 45 Board game 49 Headliner 55 Wind dir.

 
 
 
   

     
 

Party Picture Photographers Needed
Must have own 35 mm equipment & car
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

J ZlJ’J.lj’J‘]‘.l

 

Foe 25 v~lAYs

 
  
   
      
     

 

I‘/II.I§I(3
1

Diana Madsen Schofield
205 North Main Street
Phone 463-5455

 

+0 lnei.p sitveime
9A?-11-l cnru.
“3°°""83"988'/.

. but Sonic. 9'
-. H‘, 71-Iblleullon

1 Medium 14” CHEESE & ONE TOPPING PIZ
$5.99

WITH THIS COUPON
(8 slices)

_2_lVI-ecTi11—m—14”_C-HEE_SE:8-cONE i7o_i>Eii7ic? i?iZz?i§ it’
$10.99

WITH THIS COUPON
(16 slices)

30 Minute Delivery
10 Minute Pick-Up

FRANK’S PIZZA
463-7575

Hot & Cold Subs 0 Salads 0 Dinners O Bevera es

DO YOU ENJOY
 SHOOTING SKEET?

Back ard keet is fun utc m ared toS o in

rin

 

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

I

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you dOn’t have to be a good shot

to enjoy a round.

Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

   
     
         
       

PLEASE MENTION THIS AD WHEN CALLING IN AN OR ER

 

        
     
  

  

oppoumty ESJ ,
Come in during the month of ovember and purchase $15.00 or more of comics &
receive 25% of Purchase price.

We have the biggest and best comic se ection in the area. D.C., Marvel, Image,
Independents & many, many more to choose from.

Ask us about our Gift Certificates — They make Great Christmas Gifts!

SBCIIOII f0I' the MOM” —/ICIIOH - 99 C
Stonewall Stiucare Shopping Center

xin on
463-9 00
I‘

F

1.
5 Beech Avc., Buena Vista - (Behind Pizza

727 26 Hut)
ANY SIIOW

$1.50

Now Showing

The Good Son
Rated R
Daily 9:30 p.m.

Sat. & Sun. 2:45 & 9:30 p.m.

Sleepless in Seattle

Rated PG-13
Daily 7:00 p.m.

Sat.&Sun. 12:30, 4:45 & 7:00 p.m.

one)

7292

Q00

“All You Can Eat"

BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

OF POPCORN

$3.00

  

                  

"' ,n. " ~ -. "a-_.‘ 0-.3 --_. ' -. ,9‘-g. ,
"   .. . -.-:.'.- :-5 -.

   

'- .._ .._ _ ~ ...._‘ ..,. .._.
'«~"'-'5‘-'3’“‘?-ﬁﬁfrf-W"$:?<£%:’@i§€ﬁi¥‘35

   

  

-.5: 4 :5
writ.’

   

' ~r ;.,'‘(a' , '3; _-.>- .- 4
‘.z":":kI~!«*~"':’5 *5‘.-.9319‘? '6‘?

   
 
 

Run

and ‘.7{e5taurant . - .__  “ r . .1 -
Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,

1.

  

Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. gg
Six Room Inn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dininy3'

_.._. ~* V), ‘.._a -' p _, _ .. _ _

;'5,‘«_'2_.-?"r»,r.\.5-.‘3;\"4;:?'§re:h;;.§§= '3_=,.-‘m3;.- 1-. 4 -r
.t. a_r . s  -‘ s
ztiiar.-*.~.Il:«_i$r

Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.
Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

- _ 4, . ~..._u . .._- r’ »4~..._. a p‘_ 4:4, -.:
':.?.-«.:-:t2;%‘a\Fc;:?'g‘2z:?':cir‘a-'- 5:2.-?'_rrr«*.,--3-'rC‘i‘»‘.=:».:-5‘:‘.?;«.

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle” '

'3.’

Special Fall / Winter Package 

_ Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only 
‘ Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00 
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two 

'5!’

(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

Schedule your holiday parties Now!
Gift Certificates & Holiday Packages Now Available

  

s.

 

 
 

Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) 
'_ 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
«'21. Call for reservations: 70-463-9715 azi-

\-
u
S
at .

‘I; 4-.. .» .~- . r.. v.. - . .--v.. .- I ‘ .*- ..-'-.T"

 ...   

WHEN Yoll RIDE nnuu ONE MORE
FOR TIIE ROAD HAVE

All EIl'l’IlIEl.V DIFFERENT IIFJIIING.

     
  

 
 

    

 

.-’&lcohol qiiickigf at"l’r.*cts your jurlgrrxr.-ri1.. l)al{lll(‘f.’. and \~?00l"(IlI1afIOll. Wlicii tl1o.~';u tarultios
“W 1111931! Cd. Yldlntz becomes more than difﬁctilt. it becomes dangerous. Don't drink
‘ and ritlc.-. Or your last drink rmglit be your last drink‘. mrmcvcu SAFETY FOIIIDATIOI -V

 S Restaurant

1   at 1.3: III Truck Stop

':

i .5) _

 BREAKFAST
 BUFFET

Friday 8: Saturday Nights
2'11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

     

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

463-3478

 

 

 
   
 
     
  
  
   
 
      
  

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

WITH NO ANNUAL FEE

W ‘V’ A moon (RENT Lwa,
(AN KISS ALL mos:

EXFENSII/E (AKDS ooomm

6 LT IT ‘"
0
MEMBER NETWORK ©1993 oxawwoov TRUST <onr»wv, MEMBER FDK

E;-..-ma u.r.r4:.-.' mcurv on-um‘: nos uninucv uvw put I’ SPVR1!

5

'5

 

PAGE 6

    

Cllrr ﬂing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Conditional Honor

On Oct. 27 some students decided the Honor System
did not apply to them at Zollman’s. They crashed a band
party sponsored by several fraternities. In doing so, they
lied.

The Honor System applies to all aspectsof student
life It applies anywhere a Washington and Lee student
is identiﬁes himself as such. W&L’s Honor System is
unique because it is more than just empty words. Most
W&L students live by it proudly.

But over the last few years, there has been some
debate over whether the Honor System applies to social
life at W&L. There should not be any debate. Unless the
W&L community wants the Honor System here to
become just another code no one believes in, nor takes
seriously, every member of the W&L community needs
to support the Honor System on and off the Hill. Many
other schools have something they call an Honor Sys-
tem that are in reality farces because they only prohibit
academic misconduct. The students who lied to get into
the Zollman’s party would probably be much happier at
one of those other schools.

Registration Workout

By now most students have finished registering for
their Winter Term classes. If you haven’t, you should
seriously consider putting the paper down and getting
that registration form into the Registrar’s office. But for
those of you who think you’re done, think again.

Maybe you forgot about physical education classes,
but don’t forget about them for too long. Before you
know it, you will be a senior and will have three PE’s or
more to take. It’s not a pretty picture. If you’re lucky, it
will hit you like a brick sometime before it is too late.
Suddenly, you’ll realize you had better start taking
those PE‘ classes. The only problem is schedulinga PE
class you might have the slightest interest in taking is
like trying to shoot a three-pointer in the dark. If you’re
lucky it might just happen.

So how do you schedule a PE class? Well, you either
leave a block of about two hours free on Monday-
Wednesday-Friday, or Tuesday-Thursday, or you leave
an even larger chunk of time free one day a week for one
of those great PE’s you have to drive 45 minutes to get
to. If you don’t plan ahead, you’re going to find‘ out that

youfre not_'tal?i_ri_g a PE and’_  rr’i'ayj‘wiiid- ‘taking two
in one terrn during your senior'''year'.‘'' ‘ i  f"

The whole process would be a little easier if the
university provided students with a list of PE’s and their
scheduled times in the registration list. They would not
have to change the way we register for PE class. They
would just be providing us with a list that would make
it a little easier to save space for PE’s.

The current process for registering for PE’s was
imposed two years ago to stop students from blocking
sections of class hours with a PE they were going to drop
anyway. But providing students with a list of PE’s
would not hinder the university’s purpose in changing
the registration. It would just make students’ lives a
little easier.

Now is that too much to ask for?

Quote of the Week:

OPINION

loll

 
 
 
  
  
  
    
    

.(,\\o melt.
or 114: t..ulEI
j.jgp.,t.‘.lI'l6ﬂf~E
pg. aluw BE

E
'°-r»

1°

 

  
 

«

\\\u-i--‘:--

1__r::1.lirlmrlllalulllrhllill

i 1+

I
\
l
I

M
=-

 

_——_.

mm§4l;=or_ OP. FA'l'N-- - -

  
 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 199
O

     
    
  
 

0

Earlier this week, the two 1 1-year-olds in England,
who are accused of abducting and murdering a two
year old boy, began their trial. It reminded me of the
week, last April, when their story was announced in
the media. These two young boys are accused of
taking young James Bulger from a mall, bringing him
to a nearby wooded area, and killing him. No one can
say what motivated them to commit such a crime;
many have theorized, but no one knows for sure. What
I expected to hear when I watched the media accounts
of the murder was a consensus of sympathy for the
victim and for the obvi-
ously disturbed perpetra-

by the New York Public Defenders Association noted
the costs involved in prosecuting just the first three of
the eleven stages of a capital case, was approximately
$1.8 million, the total cost often reaching more than
$3 million. The cost for life imprisonment is roughly
$600,000.

Beyond the ineffectiveness and expense of the
death penalty, it is important to consider the view of
the world community on this issue. The United States
is one of only three industrialized countries that still
supports capital punishment. The other two are South

Africa and the former Soviet
Union, two countries whose

tors. Instead, I found my-
self listening to one talk

human rights records leave much
to be desired. Perhaps it is time

show where caller after PATRICK for our nation,the world’s lead-
callerstatedtheybelieved CDEMIOH. ing democratic nation, to re-
both boys should be ex- M ’ consider its position on this is-
ecuted or,“fried,”asone ’94 sue. Do we really want the

viewer characterized it,
for their alleged crime.

 

United States to be a country
where people derive pleasure

I wondered if they
could hear what they were
saying. Did they actually find comfort or pleasure in
the thought of two 11-year-olds strapped into an
electric chair as thousands of volts of electricity ran
through their bodies causing them to scream in pain,
defecate, and ﬁnally die? It did not seem to matter to
the callers that these were children. They did not seem
to care that an 11-year-old is not fully capable of
realizing the seriousness of this action. What these
people wanted was revenge. Americans like the idea

.3  ..of3 killing,kille'rs,.,of ...‘.‘making the punishment fit the
‘ ,‘.§[‘gnﬁ,!” gt,/eil‘)§glieye._the, death penalty is the best way

, to show, criminals our society does not allow the

‘ kiliing of our fellow citizens. Americans believe all of

these things for one simple reason: they don’t know
the facts.

Many people who support capital punishment are
people who are frustrated by our judicial system.
They are tired of seeingviolent criminals receive light
sentences and be paroled in a few years because of our
overcrowded jails. They are equally tired of the rising
cost of our justice system, especially because they
seem to be getting less and less for their dollar. I
believe these are legitimate problems that we as a
nation must begin to face. However, extenninating
criminals is not the answer. In fact, the Federal Bureau
of Investigation stated in its publication, Crime in the
U. S., that murder rates are significantly lower in states
that have abolished the death penalty. Those states
average 4.9 murders per 100,000 people, as opposed
to states that still have capital punishment, which
average 7.4 murders per 100,000.

In addition, those people who believe the death
penalty is a less expensive way of dealing with violent
criminals, might be surprised to learn it is up to ﬁve
times more expensive than life imprisonment. A study

from “frying” human beings?
The last group of individuals
who had this kind of attitude were the Nazis. Are we
really that far away from setting up a nice clean
incinerator to do away with those people we would
rather not have to deal with? Do we not hear many
people saying, “Well, they committed horrible crimes
and we don’t have the room or the money to put them
in prison, so let’s just eliminate them.” Granted, they
deserve punishment, but do they deserve death?
One can almost hear the resounding, “yes,” from
those who actively support the death penalty in this
country. They feel a ‘  ‘ f ‘ I
need for vengeance

., .;-

s" Tiiis‘

 We’ve outgrown the death penalt  

the state and later found to be innocent. Since 19
when the death penalty was again legalitd, .
people who were sentenced to death, have be
found to be innocent upon review of their cases.
a person is wrongly convicted and sent to pri
the courts can release them. We have yet to inv
a court that can give someone their life back. ‘
can’t do it, and we shouldn’t have to. Many wou
argue there is a margin of error in everything. :
this is not an inconsequential substance we .
dealing with. It is not an industry where there
always a little loss of the product. Life is far t
precious to allow even one innocent person, ’
alone 23, to die at the hands of the state. Yet, th
continue to be large numbers of support for capiw
punishment in this country. .

One of the most interesting groups that supp
the death penalty is the Christian conservativ
They have a true dilemma on their hands. Wh
pressed on the issue, they will often have difﬁcu
finding Biblical support for their argument. Us
ally, they will tell you the Bible says, “An eye for .
eye.” That’s true, but it also says, “turn t ot .
cheek,” and, “love your neighbor.” Maybe it’s
but I somehow don’t get the impression that Jes
would be a big fan of execution. Rather than thin
ing of ways for revenge, I think he might be happ'
if we asked ourselves how we might help those w
are so disturbed, that they take the life of anot
human being. The God I believe in isn’t looking ‘
revenge, he’s looking for forgiveness, for lo9e, a
for understanding. Unfortunately, these are ve
difficult qualities for human beings to acquire.

 4- ~ are much more interest
inthe quick solution,ev

for the appalling
crimes committed.
They feel the families
of the victims need to
know someone else

Perhaps it is time for our na-
tion, the world’s leading demo-
cratic nation, to reconsider its

if it has been proven to
the wrong solution.

In the last moﬂth,
have all seen the ca
paigns here in Virgi

hasdied fortheirloss. position on this issue. Do we re- and around the count
l’°“‘°a"Y""a“Y f‘““‘ ally want the United States to be a MW °“"‘“d"‘.°.5 °“ b
ily members of mur- . sidesofthe political sp
der victims do not Colllltry Where P901119 denve trumknowthef:-ctsa

want the death pen-
alty imposed on their

' ‘I
loved one’s murderer. belngs '

pleasure from “frying” human

the death penalty, th
know about all of
faults, but they contin

Many realize nothing
the state can do to pun-
ish the criminal can bring back their loved one, that
“violence only begets violence.” Many family mem-
bers would rather see an active program of rehabilita-
tion for those offenders who can be helped, and a real
“life sentence,” for those who cannot.
Implementing these types of programs would also
avoid what is the most tragic result of the death
penalty, the execution of innocent people. Since the
turn of the century, 23 people have been executed by

to support it. They reg
it as a “necessary evi
which they must support if they wish to be elect
This is true from the local sheriff right up to t
President of the United States. They have aﬂ tak
a most cowardly path, and it is time for us to redir
them. We must educate ourselves about the de
penalty. Whether you oppose it on moral, leg
ethical, or practical grounds, if you are inform
you must oppose capital punishment. There is si :
ply no other choice for citizens of a modern socie

“The weatherman says this will be a good night to get that

someone special and struggle under the stars.”

- A Channel 2 news anchor presumably mispronouncing
the word “snuggle. ”

Ellie filing-tttm lﬂlrie as

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sport Editor . . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obennueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Ciruilation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but Theking-rum Phi
is otherwise independent. 5

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that weel<’s edition. Columns, letters, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does >
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity. “

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
703 462-4060

Clinton should heed own advice.

. President Clinton loves to complain
about the deﬁcit, yet his own budget is
bloated with the same wasteful spend-
ing he condemns. Below is a portion of
the hundreds of needles programs and
departments Clinton found in his bud-
get for the 1994 ﬁscal year. Eliminat-
ing any one of them would have saved
the government and taxpayers mil-
lions or even billions of dollars. If

oil shortages of the 1970’s are over,
Carter is back in Georgia, and this
department is still around.

6. The World Agricultural Outlook
Board - As important as the monitoring
of banana production in Siberia is, our
government can endure the pain of its
loss.

7. The National Endowment for the
Arts — American culture will not col-

 

Clinton truly lapse without
wants to reduce it; morelikely
the deﬁcit, I en- it will im-
courage him to provewithout
start with this ANDREW the NEA to
list. sponsor pro-
1. The De- _ OLMEM, gramslikethe
partment of Edu- ’  , 996 M3PP1°th°TP°
cation — Educa- ‘  D exhibit.
tion is a matter 8. The
forstate,notfed- B a r r y
eral government. Goldwater

. Maybe if the teachers’ unions had not
contributed so much to his campaign it
would have received a cut.

2. The Rural Electriﬁcation Ad-
ministration — This depression-era
program’s goals were achieved about
thirty years ago.

3. Contributions to lntemational
Organizations—The entire list of inane
organizations to whom Uncle Sam
gives a healthy donation is too long for
a complete list. My favorites are the
International Ofﬁce of the Vine and
Wine, International Seed Testing As-
sociation, and the International Rubber
Study Group.

4. Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations — Have
you heard of it? How important can it
be?

5. The Energy Department -— The

Scholarship — Goldwater is one of the
great advocates of limited government;
his name should not help contribute to
excessive government.

9. The Hubert H. Humphrey Fel-
lowships — If Barry doesn’t get one,
neither should Hubert.

10. The United States Polar Re-
search Programs — The $78 million
spent in a desolate wasteland for this
program could be put to more produc-
tive uses back in the U.S.

11. The Corporation for Public
Broadcasting — The benefits of not
having this corporation, besides from
reducing the deﬁcit, would come in the
form of better television.

12. The Neighborhood Reinvest-
ment Corporation — A typical govem-
ment program intended to help people,
but which actually helps no one.

13. Trust Fund for Boat Safety -Are
people in our society so stupid that the
government must remind them to wear
their life jacket?

14. The Wage and Hour Division of
the Labor Department — This country
doesn’t need either a minimum wage
or its enforcement agency.

15. The Post Office — In a world of
faxes, it is becoming obsolete.
Privatization would allow it to change
and improve its service.

16. The Environmental Protection
Agency — This agency has become a
business killing machine. We all love
trees, but we should not have to kill our
economy to live in a clean environ-
ment.

17. The Small Business Adminis-
tration— Encouraging small businesses
to look to the
governmentfor
advice is no
way toimprove
an economy.

18. The
Housing Pro-
grams of the
Department of
Housing and
Urban Devel-

Trying to solve all of
society’s problems by
transferring responsibil-
ity from individuals to
the government inevita-
bly leads to disaster.

tent and end ours.

20. The National Magnetic Levi E
tion Prototype Development 9- TI
program conducts research on grou
transportation technologies.

21. The Helium Fund — This p
gram has been out of date since t
Hindenberg disaster.

22. Woodsy Owl and Smokey B
— Two fictional characters wk) ha
been turned into a huge govemm
bureaucracy.

23. Older American Volunteer P
grams — Senior citizens will volunt
with or without this program.

I don’t expect Clinton to adopt a

of these proposals, because W t *

believes big government is good.
best evidence of this is his health c
proposal. There was never an atte
to improve hea
care other th
through sociali
tion. Cli to
only propglsal
resolve any pr
lem is governm
intervention. T

society’s pro
lems by transf

opment — The

g 0 v e r n m e nt

should not be in the housing business.
Most of the government projects are
crime-ridden hellholes, the sooner their
tenants get their own houses the better
off they will be.

19. Farm Subsidies — The Agricul-
ture Department’s budget is full of
questionable (and confusing) subsidies.
We complain when the Europeans have
them, so we should at least be consis-

ring resporﬂsibil
from individu .
to the govemm :

inevitably leads to disaster. The res

is not only a multitude of govemm
program, but also govemment’s c
trol of the economy. Liberty can
exist without economic freedom.
more government acquires the resp
sibility for solving society’s proble
the closer Americans come to loosi
their liberties.

 

ing to solve all

  

Ihe Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

OPINION

Spos reviews the White Book

SPos’ SPACE

l Tom Hespos
Back in the days of the Civil War

When folks were of honorable breed,

And gentlemen knew what courtesy was for,
A man came to Lexington on his steed.

Eee was his name, an honorable man,

e saved Washington College from despair
Of honor he was undoubtedly quite a fan
He left discipline in the students’ care.

He left W&L with his system of honor,
The effects of which we’re still feelin’
Violate the system and you’re a goner—
No lyin’, cheatin’ or stealin’.

Dishonorable conduct was also forbidden,
Students were without a doubt

Or hooligans who thought the E.C. was kiddin’
Soon got themselves kicked out.

And the Honor System seemed to work well
For one hundred years plus twenty.
Gentlemenlike behavior at Dubyuhnell
Could be found on campus a—plenty

But students sometimes found contradiction

In the system that they held so high.

{here were problems with the E.C.’s jurisdiction —
When did the Honor System apply?

If you borrow a pencil without asking prior

And so they established the W.B.R.C.
To get the answers they sought.

The White Book review will take place very soon
And its not so difficult to see

The Honor System may be singing a different tune
After the changes of 1993.

So how did everyone like Spos’ introduction?
Cute, huh? In any case, the White Book Review
Committee, headed by the gallant and noble Ames
Hutton, will be taking a serious look at different
Honor System issues this year. Hopefully, they will
get some of the B.S.
cleared up. Like for in-
stance, how many people
on this campus know that
the two prosecutors at an
honor trial later sit on the
jury ,of the accused. Neat,
huh? lt’s like starting off
with two votes automati-
cally against you.

And that’s not all. The
W.B.R.C. will have to ex-
amine several other con-
troversies as well: the
single sanction penalty,
whether failing to report
an H.V. is an H.V. in itself, (etc).

Ames and company have been given quite a bit of
power by the Executive Committee. Their proposal
for changes to the Honor System could alter the lives
of every student at Washington and Lee. Think of
how much fun they could have...

Top Ten Proposed Changes to the Honor System

 

by the Student Body Constitution.

7. Stealing a sorority girl’s car stereo after she
leaves the top down on her Volkswagen Cabriolet
is permitted, as well as encouraged.

6. Any student found guilty of an honor violation
may avoid dismissal from the university by agree-
ing to a punishment of approximately equal value
(i.e. spending a week with Professor Goldsmith at
a secluded mountain retreat, discussing supplyside
economics).

5. Robbing a bank is not an honor violation, as
long as Bob Tompkins gets his cut.

4. Students may cheat on exams if they acknowl-
edge they did so in the
honor pledge.

3. The Sol Wachtler
Rule — stalking a former
lover is not considered dis-
honorable conduct.

2. Pathological liars
may attend Washington
and Lee if they agree to
negative stimulus therapy
(a sharp whack in the head
with a stick for every lie
they tell).

l.Thethet‘tofroad signs
for decoration purposes is
permitted, as long as a
promise is made to return them after graduation.

These are just a few that Ames and his friends
might consider. I’m sure the student body can think
up some more imaginative ones. Submit them to
Ames when you do. After all, if the students don’t
participate in the Honor System review, the pledge
may end up looking like the following next year:

Is that like stealing a car?
Could the E.C. likely brand you a liar
For stories told at a bar?

There were plenty of questions for the E.C.

Some that required great thought

MY VIEW

MICHAEL HEWLETT, ’96

Qear Whoopi,

At one point in my life, I was proud
of you. You won an Oscar for Best
Supporting RoleinGhost—ararity for
a black woman. Yet, your actions of
late have my soul in a tundra. You seem
to have forgotten your history, your
I/onderful,beauti—
ful black history.

I remember

 

10. Wearing Birkenstocks with socks can be con-
sidered dishonorable conduct.

9. Lying to protect one’s reputation after drinking
too much and engaging in sexual activities with an
unattractive member of the opposite sex is permitted.

8. Burning the White Book is a freedom protected

and the jokes, declaring that nothing
was wrong with them. In fact, the
jokes were hilarious, you said.
Suffice it to say, you disappointed
me. You sold your history short. Does
Amos ’n’ Andy ring a bell? What
about Al Jolsen, that white actor who

‘ performed in black-face? What about

all the blacks who had to play the
“Sambo” role or pass for white in
order to get their foot through the
door? Did you remember them? They
didn’t disgrace themselves because
they wanted
to—they had
no choice. In

reading in Jet “Nigger” wasn’t the early part
magazine how you of this cen-
encouraged your funny whell blacks were tury, white
;‘;;::.:::‘,”a“S:‘; Spa‘ 3;» ,‘,''‘‘PP§‘‘’ :.*;3;.:2:::
“Cheers”), to ap- curse ’ urne 9 caS- accept blacks
pear publicly in trated — reduced to as intelligent,
black-face and tell   a   complex hu-
a few “nigger” man beings.
jokes at the Friars human chattel- The They would
Club. You even word was never humor. rather see an

rote some of the . Uncle Remus
jokes. I thought Ous then? and It can thanaSidney
you had more never be humorous now. Potier. We,

sense than that.
From the moment
I saw you in The
Color Purple, I thought you were an
ixceptionally gifted actress. You
rought a sense of dignity and strength
to Celie’s character. Where was that
dignity when you guffawed at those
insulting “nigger” jokes? I sure didn’t
see it. No, you had to stand up for your
man. You had to defend the black-face

h o w e v e r ,
don’t have to
do that any-
more, and we shouldn’t feel com-
pelled to make fools of ourselves for
the white man’s pleasure. Somehow I
thought being black meant more to
you than allowing your lover to use a
word that still demeans millions of
blacks everyday.

Yet, you thought it was funny.

“Nigger” wasn’t funny when blacks
were spat at, whipped, cursed, burned,
castrated — reduced to nothing but a
piece of human chattel. The word was
never humorous then, and it can never
be humorous now. How dare you even
suggest that I, as a black American,
should ever laugh when I hear that
word? I don’t even laugh when other
blacks call each other “nigga” (as if the
spelling changes anything). But you
wonder why blacks such as Montel
Williams and former New York Mayor
David Dinkins were so upset. Whoopi,
think about it for a moment. If that guy

had been anyone other than Ted Danson, 
.wouIdn’,t’ Y<]5u.’I.1,a>’/.¢ be.é'!iIi.l!‘t2§§?.t?.'}. . 
Whoopi, this has nothing to do with"

the fact that youare dating a white man.
Frankly, I could care less. If this was

“On my honor I have made my best effort to
copy the answers of my classmates and sneak peeks
at the textbook. I acknowledge that my Washington
and Lee diploma is therefore worth less than a
serving of nachos from Stop-In. (signature).”

See ya in two weeks...

Whoopi forgets her heritage

done in the privacy of your own home,
I wouldn’t have bothered to write the
letter. But you and Ted chose to dis-
grace yourselves in public. I thought
you were proud to be black. But I’m
not so sure anymore. When Ted Danson
appeared in black-face, he reduced the
struggles and triumphs ofblackAmeri-
cans to a joke, and you laughed. The
reason people, particularly blacks, were

upset with you is that you and Ted _

showed a lack of sensitivity and dig-
nity. Being black means more than
“niggerz”

Being black means being proud,
being strong, being dignified. We are

" ’ riot arid 'never were “niggets'.‘~r thought

'y6u=€terrewj*"tna1: but ‘as pb'8t"Sonia
Sanchez once said, “Man, ‘you way
behind the set.”

M) ville lie

cowses ii: wsivsel.

 l.55\J|¢5. tl\.¢  6&4 l~\AVY\OI'

caluwxvxlslis. Use <:k'e or awytklwg clan Hunt .

send. letters to like editor and /my
Views to l'.l~¢ (DRE cFFi.c¢. voaws. 23% 9‘:
tlse University center we later Uvsavs Una
¢§l\A¢sela\J la¢Fere publication.

at... ‘FDA;

 

Sophomores

There will be a workshop for
Sophomores entitled “Choosing a
Major or Career” on Tuesday, Nov.
9 at 4 p.m. in Room 109 of the
University Center.

Internships

There will be a workshop on “In-
ternships: How to Apply” on
Wednesday, Nov. 10 at 4 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center.
All students are welcome.

Career test

. There will be a career test inter-
pretation on Thursday, Nov. 11 at 3
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. All students who have taken
the career interest tests but have not
had them interpreted, please plan on
attending this session.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum invites you to
attend an informal meeting regard-
ing women’s housing at Washing-
ton and Lee. The meeting will be
held in the Arlington Women’s Cen-
ter at 6 p.m. on Sunday, Nov. 7.

Ariel

The deadline for applying for the
staff of the Ariel literary magazine
has been extended until Nov. 10.
Applications are available in the
University Center.

Speech

Sister Helen Prejean, author of
Dead Man Walking:AuEyewitness
United States, ' spea  onday,
Nov. 8, at8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.’ The
public is invited.

.Acsguev.ar:I;e_zmi@Fé;,*e rx.t4.§'»e.

Speaker

James P. Pinkerton, deputy as-
sistant for policy planning in the
Bush administration, will speak on
Nov. 11 at 8 p.m. in Northen Audi-
torium on “Post-Clinton America:
Democrats and Republicans Aside,
What Should America Be Looking
for the 1990’s.’’

. Loans

Loans for students in need are
available. For more information,
please call Jeff Rogers at 462-4049.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will met
Monday, Nov. 8, at 8 p.m. in room
208 of the University Center. All
members of the university commu-
nity are welcome to attend.

Register

Students may ‘pick up their copy
of the 1993-94 Register of Stu-
dents, Faculty, Staff from the
Registrar’s Office. -

W&L-VMI

The Preston Society, in con-
junction with the SAB and the VMI
Cadet Programming Board, is spon-
soring a party with “Dost in the
Supermarket” at Zollman’son Sun-
day, Nov. 7, from 1:30 to 5 p.m. All
students from bothschools are in-
vited to attend.

Concert

4 The Concert Guild,will present
-..th.ea..cati? ...si. ' 7 .uP»Chan-
.,:icieer,;o;lii‘oesJl,%$igv. 9 at 8
p.m. in the Lenfest ‘Center. The
public is invited.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

Student Body Notice

, I A male sophomore has been found in violation of university policy for
drinking in Gilliam dormitory and throwing a beer bottle out of a second-
story window, almost hitting two students. The SCC has imposed the

following sanctions.

1. Social probation until Nov. 19

2. 6 hours of community service
3. $25 ﬁne

4. Letters of apology to all parties involved.

5. A session with Dr. Worth
6. Conduct probation for the rest

of the year.

‘Interviews and Layout by Joe Framptom

Photos by Bethany Smith

TALKBACK

 

VVho is your favorite cartoon character and Why‘?

 

Colin Higgins, ’94, Ridgewood, NJ.
«I» —— “Bugs Bunny because he gets lots
of chicks.”

Chris Albert, _’95, Baltimore, Md.
— “Scooby Doo because I remember
watching him when I was a kid.”

Andy Jacobsen, ’96, Florence, Ky.
— “Bugs Bunny because he looks
good in a dress.”

Tom Fink, ’96, Ashtabula, Ohio -
“Spiderman because he’s almost as
tough as my real life hero Brian
Shearer.”

All Wilson, ’95L, Berkely Heights,
NJ. — “Batman because he’s a su-
perhero.”

David Olimpio, ’96, Houston, Texas"
-—- “Hobbes because I don’t know if.
he’s real or not.” 1

 

  

MY VIEW

J OSEPH E. VALLELY

Pope John Paul II has repeatedly stated that
the contemporary world has lost the sense of
sin. The Vicar of Christ has said that modern
man no longer experiences guilt when he vio-
lates God’s laws. The Pope has taught that
knowledge of God’s laws comes from two
sources: the Church and the conscience, the
inner voice of the soul.

The American population including those
of us who identify with the Roman Catholic
faith have pushed aside the directives of the
conscience in order to pursue “liberty” in
thought and action. The philosophy of liberty
was advanced by the French atheists of the
early 1700’s. The writers of the United States
Constitution were deeply affected by these

heretics who advocated the exclusive use of
reason and the rejection of conscience as a
moral guide. It is interesting to note that Jesus
never employed the principle of liberty.

This nation values liberty to the extent that
a massive statue built in France and conse-
crated as a goddess was placed in the New York
City harbor for all immigrants to witness and
adore. The structure, of course, is called the
Statue of Liberty, donated by a country which
possessed in the Middle Ages a profound devo-
tion to the Blessed Virgin Mary whom the
French affectionately called Notre Dame, i.e.
Our Lady.

Liberty is not freedom. The exercise of
reason separated from the conscience is liberty.
The reason cannot make moral decisions con-
sistent with the will of God. Only the con-
science is capable of this function. The separa-
tion and destruction of the conscience began
centuries ago. The world is reaping the bitter
fruit of this decision.

OPINION

The counsels of the conscience are true and
infallible. The person knows the truths of God
by means of the conscience. Reason is a tool for
gathering information and nothing more. Dur-
ing the French Revolution, a statue called the
Goddess of Reason was placed on the main
altar of the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris.
The blasphemous revolutionists were making it
very clear that reason detached from the con-
science was motivating them... to murder, plun-
der and destroy especially everything which
pertained to the holy Catholic Church.

The liberation of reason from the conscience
has been accepted in the civil law of the United
States because of the Constitutional guarantee
of the “pursuit of liberty” provision. Few moral
advocates including members of the Catholic
clergy have perceived the perverse and de-
monic strategy which has been operating. This
philosophy of liberation gradually eroded the
entire spiritual consciousness of this nation and
all countries of the West.

The abandonment of the conscience caused
the loss of the sense of sin which Pope John
Paul II complains about. The gloriﬁcation of
reason has been the major focus of the educa-
tion community. The process of education is
the indoctrination of the exclusive use of rea-
son. Contemporary education makes no refer-
ence to the conscience nor to the soul. God, of
course, is never mentioned either. All knowl-
edge therefore is evaluated by reason and not
by the truths of God as inscribed in the Ten
Commandments. The academic community
has no use for the Commandments of God
given to Moses and afﬁrmed by Jesus. Almost
all educators, especially at the college level, are
atheists.

As atheistic rationalists, they deny the exist-
ence and relevancy of God. They are the
offspring of the French pagan intellectuals.
Entire generations of God’s children have been
infected by the atheists of academia and their
Cinderella sisters, industry and government.

  

The Ring-tum Phl, November 5, 1993
4' :-

Franciscan delivers present status of the World

Academia produced the conscienceless opera-
tors who presently function in these three spheres.
The seduction into Godlessness by the pursuit
of liberty was clever and complete. Most saw
the devilish strategy too late.

Those who believe in God, the conscierye
and other spiritual entities such as the soul,
demons, heaven, hell, angels, and sin are per-
ceived by the educated rationalists as simple
idiots. The devoted servants of reason run the
show through out the entire world. Their influ-
ence and control are immense. The liberation of
reason from conscience is complete. 5

In the garden of Eden, Satan tempted Eve’s
reason with the knowledge of good and evil.
The first woman ignored the counsels of her
conscience in her excessive desire for informa-
tion and we have all had to pay for this liberated
desire including the Son of God on a cross.
Reason cut off from the conscience is chags. ,
This is the present state of the world.

The author is a Third Order Franciscan.

Reader disagrees; Recycling must be instituted

LETTERS

Honor System violated

C“

To the editor:
Mr. Dennard’s editorial in the Oct.
29 Ring-tum Phi shows how. short-

it may make some economic sense to
him, personally, it eschews the respon-

sibility to the community that is part A A
and parcel of our freedom. His attitude ‘

is selﬁsh, pure and simple._  the
narcissistic emphasis on how the world
affects oneself alone and how one can

Letters

Letters to the editor and My
Views are due on Tuesdays in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the
University Center. All letters will
be printed in the order in which
they were received.

use the world is, in the long run, coun-
terproductive, even for the individual

W‘ ,-in question.
sighted his view of the world is. While ‘
‘ and time-consuming for Mr. Dennard

. Although it may be less bothersome

to toss his cans, bottles, and papers in
the trash, that trash has to go some-

: where. Although it disappears from his
‘sight, it does not vanish, Instead, it
 must be stored somewhere. In this area

it goes into a landfill that is fast ﬁlling
up, as they are all over the country. The
cost of dumping in landﬁlls is rising
steeply. We all have to pay that bill,
including Mr. Dennard.

In otherareas that trash may go to an
incinerator to be spewed into the atmo-
sphere as pollution that Mr. Dennard
will breathe. Down the road a few
years, he may ﬁnd trips to the doctor an
increasing necessity because of that
polluted air, and doctors aren’t cheap,
either. Or, if he is lucky enough to be
unscathed by the air, others will not be,

and he will in some way underwrite
their medical expenses. Thus, there is
some inaccuracy in Mr. Dennard’s ac-
counting.

I do agree with him that recycling is
not now paying its way. Not enough
has been done to incorproate recycled
goods into the mainstream of industrial
output. There are problems with re-
tooling machinery, for instance, and
more research and development needs
to be directed to working out the cur-
rent impediments. But that will come,
willy-nilly. Those of us who have the
habit of recycling won’t even notice
any extra effort it may involve, when it
becomes mandatory. Because if people
refuse to willingly participate, they may
well ﬁnd that they are coerced in some
way to comply.

Mr. Dennard allows that aluminum
is now offering a return for those who
recycle it. There are people in the county
who travel the roads, picking up cans.

But it is interesting to observe how
many cans there are to pick up! Al-
though individuals could get a
“payback” on recycling their alumi-
num, precious few bother. Obviously,
economic incentive is not enough.
Finally, I believe that someday,
when he has lived longer, Mr. Dennard
will see that there are higher rewards
from serving others along with him-
self, than in doing things only for his
immediate gratiﬁcation. And he may
see that to put a monetary value on each
and every minute or gesture limits the
rewards of a good life. If we are to stop
and ﬁgure the economic beneﬁt of ev-
erything we do, we will have no time to
enjoy the life we have. We must de-
velop a long-range, world community
view of our actions in order to survive.

Sincerely,
Adrienne Hall Bodie
Newcomb Hall

by lying about identity

To the Washington and Lee Stu-
dent Body:

Last Wednesday night members
of our student body chose to disre-
gard the Honor System and lied to
gain admittance to a Halloween
party at Zollman’s. Several frater-

nities organized the party and put

forth a large sum of money to hire
The Dave Matthews Band.

They established a guest list com-
prised of the members of their houses
and invited guests. They also took
the precaution of hiring people to
check the names of those arriving at
the gate against the guest list.

This is understandable given the
money each of those houses con-
tributed to the event and the capac-
ity of Zollman’s, not to mention the

IFC regulations.

One of the great strengths of
Washington and Lee is the spirit of
mutual trust among students, in the
classroomsandout.'l'hosestudents
who lied about their identities or
fraternal affiliations violated that .
trust. They showed disrespect to
the students working the gate by

lying to them, to the members of 5

those fratemities that paid for the
band by crashing theirparty, and to
the student body as a whole by
abusing the Honor System.

Those students are apparently
under the mistake belief that the
Honor System does not apply in
social settings. It does.

The Executive Committee

     
   
     
   
     
      
   

  THE PING-TUM PHI.  
wE REPoRT MoRE NEws EVERY FRIDAY THAN    
SOME NEwsPAPERs REPoRT ALL MONTH.

ARE YOU LOOKING roR SOMETHING To Do IN vouR
sPARE TIME? Do YOU WANT AN EXCELLENT AD-
DITION To voUR RESUME? THERE IS A SOLUTION:

JOIN THE PING-TUM PHI. wE’RE LOOKING FOR RE-
PoRTERs, COPY EovToRs, PHoTooRAPHERs, AND
ADvERTvsvNc STAFF. NO EXPERIENCE IS NECES-
SARY;WE’LL woRK WITH YOU. PLEASE GIVE USA
  CALL AT 462-4060.

  

  

 

     
  

.1 »

Harrisfeeter
  MEANS to PRICES  

D-_ ‘-3.

I QUALITY AND VARIETY
93% LEAN

tntsn GROUND 
 BEEF 

     
  
 
  


I M . ._,.,  ..
HOUSE OF RAEFORD

GRADE "A" SELF-BASTING

TURKE Y......2 

ADDTIONAL
PURCHASE v
I I‘IIIIIIIIIIIILIIBI:I

PREMIER SELECTION DIET PEPSI
SWHITE POTATOES OR PEPSI

2 LITER 9 9
O

PEPSI
A

5 LB.
BAG

 
 
   
     

  

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

 

2/ oo
DRINKS .............................. ..2 LITER
SWISS MISS PLAIN MILK CHOCOLATE
HOT COCOA O9
MIX ................................ ..i o COUNT
KARIETIES 2/ O0
MUNCHEMS ....... ..7 OUNCE
  499
I BREAST. ........................ ..LB.
   1yp'5EI.ECTEDVARIETIESE EXTRA STRENGTH

TYLENOL
GELTABS

69

   I.AY'$”  
 POTATO cmps

x.

— ..;-‘rig; ..,L‘,,..w_..__.:~.‘.-1 .

 6 oz._

     

.- ~ :....,.:_a,$_-—~—.-

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

 HT
 PREMIUM
ORANGE JUICE

HUNTER FARMS
SHERBET

$"('-E  - :.-".2

2/

I QUART

Wm

  
 

T.‘-

 59
 64 oz. I
: = 9" .

\ .

 

 

 Prices Effective Through November 9, I993

 ".;Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday, November '3 Through uesd<l:)y, November 9,1993. In '- '?XITT910" Stores
‘ OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To eolers. We Glodly Accept Federal tood Stamps.

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

Standings as of 11/03/93;‘"E:cordsiare regular} season-

Men’s Cross Country Women’s Soccer
Overall Records* Overall Records
Lynchbur 11-0-0‘ Randolph-Macon 14- 1-0
Eastern ennonite 6-2-0 Roanoke _ 9-6-1
Roanoke 5-3-0 Washington and Lee r 8-6-1‘
Washington and Lee 3-2-0 L/ynchburg 10-8-0
Hampden-Sydney 9-7-0 a. Wesleyan 8-8-0
Brid ewater 3-9-0 6 R-M Women’s ‘ 6-8-0
Ran olph-Macon 1-11-0 Guilford 5-8-0
Iélollins _ 3-11-0
Women’s Cross Country “feet. Bnar M p 2-10-1
Overall Records*
Roanoke 4-0-0 * W , S _
Emory and Henr 2-0-0 ‘06’X'(e:“S‘s. ‘(feet
Washington an Lee 3-1-0 9 , . 1 tan “'35 A
IEZs1t(e}r111iur ennonite  I %?ndh°.1ph'Ma°°5‘1£ V ,8°(1)’0
Bridgewater 1-3-0 Roisnglrggton an e 
Va. Wesleyan 5-3-0
Lynchburg 4-4-0
Football R}I1ll'1If(\)lI"E)man’s 
Overall Records Houins 1_7_0
Emory and Henry 6-2-0 Sweet Bnar 08-0
Randolph-Macon 5-2-1
Hampden-Sydney 5-3-0 3 M
Brid ewater 2-6-0. “w « Volle ball
Was ington and Lee 1-6-0 Overall ecords
Guilford 1-7-0 G If d
ui or 22-5
Bridgewater 22-7
Football Eastern Mennonite 20- 14
ODAC Standings Washington and Lee ' 15-11 _
R-M Women’s College 16-12
Randolph-Macon 3-0-0 Lynchburg 13-13
Emory and Henry 4-1-0 Roanoke 7-11
Hampden-Sydney 3-1-0 Sweet Bfiar 9-15
Brid ewater 1-3-0 HOHIHS 9-16
Was ington and Lee 1-3-0 Emory and Henry 6-19
Guilford 0-4-0
Volleyball];
ODAC Offensive Player of the Week ODAC S“"“““g5 « 1‘
Tom Mason—TB-Washington and Lee Guilford 9-0
gridgewléiter « 8-1
QDAC D f - P] f h k astem ennonite 7-2
e ‘inswe ayer 0 t e wee Washington and Lee S 6-3
Rob Moms-LB—Randolph-Macon , Lynchburg . 3_6
Roanoke M 3-6
Men, Socce Emory andcHenryT 3-6
s r B ' .
Overall Records Hvgleﬂs mar %_;
R- ’ -
Va. Weslc an 14_2_1 M Women s College 2 7
Rando1ph- acon 16-3-0
Roanoke 15-3-0 .1; ' W3-shingtqnlgeej‘ I ~
Hampden-Sydney 10-6-2 ‘ Team'Records
Eastern Mennonite 11-8-0 (11 dated for 11/04/93)
P
Lynchburg 8- 0-1
lévmorly antd Henr Le 53-161:0) gomenk Eennisqo I s g-1]).
its "'8 0“ an 9 « - - ..»   omenis ; , s *“ u.try   ;. 
Brid ewater .. K i <2 r; ,3-§1%srQﬁ' I‘-5» Mgipybﬁv‘  g  pas‘ §5.11t‘
GU11 0rd 3- 3-1 Wen’s Crogs Country 94-3
omen’s occer -7-1
Water Polo 11-11
Men’s Soccer V A h V, * 5-13
Men’s Soccer Football . . 14- ‘A I I 16.
ODAC Standings Overall 51-52-1
Roanoke - -
Randolph-Macon - - » 4 M _ « L _. _ - A
Vugmla Wesleyan ' ' Women’s Intramu‘rals—FootbaIl

Eastern Mennonite

Hampden-Sydney Pi Beta Phi 21, Kappa Alpha Theta 9

710
620
620
530
4-4-0
440
350
170
080

L nchburg - - Kappa Kappa Gamma over Freshman Women
ashington and Lee - -
Guilford - -
Bndgewater ' ' *Only dual, tri- and quad-meets
, are included in cross country records
Sports moment o the week...

Photo; by Bethany Smith. The Fling-tum Phi ‘

We are not quite sure what these athletes are doing, or how" it relates to soccer, but these
members of the Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institutesoccer team were the
photogenic athletes of the week for Nov. 5, 1993.

 

    

PAGE 10

 

Cross country hosts invite;

Women first, men second

Photo by Joe Framptom, The Hing-tum Phi
Sophomore Tom Fink was the second-best
finisher for the Generals in the Washington
and Lee Invitational Oct. 30.

By BILL Rusr
Phi Staff Writer

Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer and the women’s cross
country team surpassed Eastern Mennonite and Shepard this
weekend to win the Washington and Lee lnvitational.

The Lady Generals badly outpaced their opponents, taking
the top four spots in succession. They set a school record with
17 points.

As usual, Schaeffer was the ﬁrst to cross the ﬁnish line.
She ran the muddy three mile course in 18:36, only 18 seconds
short of her best for the W&L course. She has had a
phenomenal season, ﬁnishing ﬁrst in her last seven meets, and
setting a personal best time, an incredible 17:25, earlier this
season.

Junior Amy Mears followed Schaeffer with a time of
20:43. Junior Sue Deutsch was next, ﬁnishing in 21:19. Her
third place ﬁnish in the meet was a personal best.

Junior Kim Herring ﬁnished right behind her, with a time
of 21:30.

The ﬁrst opposing runner passed the ﬁnish line 32 seconds
later, with a time of 22:02.

The Lady Generals have won all but one of their meets this
season, (only dual, tri- and quad-meets are counted in stand-
ings) and enter the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tour-
nament anticipating their second consecutive championship.
If they succeed, it will be their third in the last four years.

The men’s team, for its part, placed four runners in the top
10 to ﬁnish second to Eastern Mennonite in their only home
meet.

Senior Brad Paye ﬁnished third, and lead the Generals
with a time of 29:29, his best performance of the season.
Sophomore Tom Fink ﬁnished sixth with a time of 30:1 1, and
freshman Sandy Hooper’s 30:50 placed ninth.

Senior Brad Shearer was next, ﬁnishing tenth. ,

The Generals ﬁnish the season with a 4-3 record, fourth in
ODAC. Lynchburg, 11-0, is expected to win the conference
tournament again this year. If W&L does not finish second,
it will be the first time in four years.

Both teams travel to Bridgewater this Saturday for the
ODAC tournament. Schaeffer will be attempting to avenge
last year’s race, in which she missed a turn on the course.

Czssa Liuck.

ewevals!

      
     
         
       
 
   
      
   
   
   
   
 
   

 

 LENFEST SERIES

AT WASHINGTON AND LEE

The THMING Of
Th€i Shnew

Join Kate and Petruchio as
they battle their way to a
happy marriage in Shakespeare's
lively and face~paced

November 13 S
2:00 & 8:00 p.m.

This performance is sponsored in part by a gift from Mr. & Mrs. Joseph L. Crayoroft, Jr. '59

 

presents NCSF in

romantic farce.
 aw...

Keller Theatre

Ticket Information:
Lenfest Box Office
463-8000
Monday-Friday
Noon-4:00 p.m.

  

sea

Volleyball aims to ODACs

and by freshman Virginia Yoerg who

has a W&L record setting 84 blocks.
The team enters the ODAC touma-

ment on November 5-6 as the fourth

  

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

By BILL RUs'r
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee vol- seed.
leyball team enters the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference 'l‘ouma-
ment on the heels of an incredible

W&L faces Emory and Henry in
their first match, and hopes that their

recent winning ways carry over into.
the conference tournament.

Burns was positive about the
team’s chances.

‘‘If we keep playing the way we
have been playing,” said Bums, “we
might have a chance.”

six-match win streak.

Kelly Horan had nine kills to
lead the Lady Generals in their 15-
9, 15-2, 15-7 defeat of .Randolph
Macon Women ’s College on Thurs-
day, Oct. 28.

The team has completed the regu-
lar season with a 6-3 ODAC record,
and a 15-11 overall record. lt is the
second winning record in their his-
tory, and the first since 1988.

The team has been successful, in
part, because they are so well bal-
anced. A different athlete led the
team in each major statistical cat-
egory.

Senior Tara Burns leads the team
with 140 kills. Freshman Elizabeth
Bahn leads with 26 aces, and sopho-
more Cheryl Taurassi has 486 as-
sists to complete the Generals of-
fense.

The defense is lead by Junior
Jennifer Garrigus with 180 digs,

‘P

  
   
   

         

 

Women’s soccer

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

A solid season came to a disappointing end for the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s soccer team on Saturday with defeat at the
hands of Roanoke.

A 4-1 loss to Roanoke brought to an end a season in which
the Generals tallied nine victories and a team record 36 goals.
“We were a little disappointed that we lost in the semi-ﬁnals,
but it was still a good year,” stated junior Jen Lynch.

The Generals equaled last year’s victory total in their ﬁrst six
games and maintained a steady pace throughout the year.

Last year, the team suffered a down year, yet, with many of
the same players, responded with a highly successful year this
season. According to Lynch, “We won a lot of games early and
scored a lot, and that boosted morale.” The team also beneﬁted
from the return of starter Corinda Hankins who did not play last
year, as well as an outstanding class of freshmen led by
Michelle Bauman and Beth Mozena.

It will be these freshmen primarily who will carry the burden
next year for the Generals. Seven women’s soccer players

loses in semis

graduate this spring, all of them key to the team’s
success. Whether the young players can respond will be
seen in the season to come.

The squad was successful this season for a number of
reasons.

“We were a really close-knit team, and there weraft
really any conﬂicts,” stated Lynch in giving reasons for
the team’s success.

On the whole the Generals maintained an excellent
combination of experience and younger players.

When asked about the loss to Roanoke that ended the
season, Lynch said, “We didn’t ﬁnish our offensive
attacks and also, in the ﬁrst game (which W&L tie00-
0) we had a big incentive.”

Lynch was referring to the fact that in the first game 4'

one of the Roanoke players was on the verge of setting
a school scoring record.

Don’t be fooled by the ending. The 1993 campaign
was a successful one for the Generals. Hankins and
Angie Carrington finished their careers as number No
and number three on the career goal list at W&L.

Also, the team rebounded from a dismal season to
post a 6-1-1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference record.

   

Excmgnr g 1 g BEACHS’RNGBREN( E
1 ' EXIIAINCOMENOWI 5 PROM°TER_ or 
Itsbaaack. =»m»m-»-»~-«~-~-« §Lmgc,Gmup&YM§;“““ 

 

  

_l
4. hurl _ 

 

    

Mro er’s
neighbor ood.

T-SHIRT

Black imprint on
White 100% cotton T-shirt
L or X-L 512.00 plus tax

To order call
70312584664
(not long distance from lzxihgfon)

Wednesday Afternoon Tea J

   
   
    
 

From 3-5 p.m., we serve your favoe hot tea with
homemade scones, muffins, and assorted breads.

plus tax and gratuity - group rates available.

3
We are now taking reservations for holiday banquets. Let us
make your office or business party elegant and easy for you.

Warm up a crisp aftemoon.

 
 
     

   

   

0
ad join us by the ﬁre a
r‘. ‘ “ '',§"!:' #1 ‘
WlLLSON-  -*-:=' M
WM-KER 5‘ :.: 2% ‘
.l!.9.‘.’§§ Is i-1-1-I

$5 per person

After 6:00 p.m. weekdays.
daytime on weekends.

30 N. Main Street, Lexington, Virginia

GROUP LEADERS \‘{.L\'TElJ E

 

 To .

    
   

 

    

FACULTY

.11:-}

PARKING

~35MllmYMlI'8lAIlIﬁ$.5'l0|3fI'l’
CALL 1300} 714 - 5657

FLORIDA Km

Point of View

Restcrurcint

 

START HERE .

We wilt be visit.i.n.g Washington and Lee

Waatto teeth? Consider independent tzarivatei sci:-.:.w«_;ts5
0’('tt‘ 451} iodegxnxdcttt scimets Ems: jut: uiumiugx ¢'\'t:f_\’ yea: and many seek the «me: gs‘ and
diversity of nice!!! 'gmt::atc.s to tilt their positions.

9.3:‘ is We may rsompmfit teacher ptat-«ment m~,,§a\\i'.¢.a.titm, amt there is 339 ;'k§_{;-3. 9 to .«.m;.em'.<.s .
. . . . , . - , ,. ' . "V
For more information crmtact your cam‘: utizec at (‘all {W3,2.s:~S.l92

i-\<'t‘.i'.?i£NE':&E-V‘? i2a;a:.=:.s. TE{:Z'£.‘.§. .'£:“iR\r't(.t?.'-2 v.‘.$.i .’~‘».'i$At.‘ 3'3‘. - mi.-»-1:i:'r‘.'.-:.=. .><.: -.~.z::.~z:» -;-».i'v.:_~. .>.s1.si«'s:

 

November 15-16 '

 

2-21,‘:-

sa-ﬁga .t-.z;u\<-.-.z:s:§ ‘e:

  
  
 
  
    
    
  
   
   
 
  
  

SP S The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

An
age_o|d Water polo
rivaIry__ Wins three

The Washington and Lee '

men’s soccer team  a 

wrapped up its season

Nov. 2 with a game By SARAH GILBERT

against one of the Gener- Phi Sports Editor
als’ oldest rivals, the

Keydets of Virginia Wasn’t it Yeats who said “the
Military Institute. Though 060*“ Cannot hold--3’?
W&L lost, 24’ fans must The Washington and Lee

water polo team must not con-
tain English majors, because they
once again restored their record
to a solid 11-11. Here is one
centerwhich has no trouble hold-
mg

remember that VMI is a
Division I competitor.
The Generals ended the
season with and over-all
record of 5-12.

Strangely, their ﬁnal game
this weekend, the last any W&L
team played before the men’s
soccer game Tuesday, brought
the grand total of W&L team
records this season to 51-51-1, a
perfect .500.

Water polo wins came over
Fordham, 27-7; St. Francis, 13-
4; and Johns Hopkins, 15-14.

Johns Hopkins was the only
real challenge for the Generals,
as the team eased to a victory in
the Eastern Water Polo Associa-
tion playoffs at the Merchant Ma-
rine Academy.

Sophomore goalie Dane
Merkel, who had 20 saves and
12 goals-allowed for the week-
end, commented on the Gener-
als’ competition.

“We didn’t play very com-
petitive teams,” he said. “We
were kind of fooling around,”

Before this past weekend,
W&L suffered losses which
caused the match-up with less
competitive teams.

“We’ve lost to teams we
should have beat,” said Merkel.
“Last week, we should have been
at another tournament playing
tougher teams.”

The real test for W&L comes
this weekend, as the Generals
head to Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Nov. 5-7, for the

Photos by Bethany Smith. The Ring-tum Phi

The contest against VMI is played for the unofficial Lexington city championship, and the Eastern Division in champion-
Keydets captured the title from the defending Generals, who won last year’s contest 3-2. ships. W&L will be oompeting
Junior Alan Christensen was named to the All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference first team as ‘he d°f°ndi"g_Ch3mPi0"- _

shortly before the game; Christensen has two goals and four assists for the Generals this “mm mm‘ "‘ "‘° °h‘"“P"

. . . . . onship] are psyched up to beat
season, splitting time as a midfielder and a back. us,” Said Mark“ “That gives Us

a motivation to beat them.”

‘Dom’ MIZOUT!

 
 

-'.~7:"~.<- ‘.?~2.v. t.‘ ,5

  
    
 
    
      
     
      
    
 
     
    
    
     
       
     
     
       
       
   
       
        
 
     
   
   
   
     
        
 
     
  

. . .-ar-,—«.:i.

. ~., _I ...- ,.,
A
 ' .1-:.~’r'.r 

r lllL.....\



1 iiririolfliilll
lﬂllriilliiiirlerolsiiiiiriiriiiliil
tigilillt,iitililiigililiiliiili-;f?i";..
diiigisriirlimiresliyvirsir 1  

 
 

THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
HATS AND OTHER W&L SPORTWEAR
lEX|H6TOll'S OHLY SOURCE FOR TEVAS AHO HERRHI. BOOTS

15 w. wiisiiiiiciori sr. WE no MAIL ORDER!
iiexiiieroii 1 103 464-3000

20 lllllllili l lilll

'iili)Cv;i[ll8SSUl€{il0pSl0 iﬁxcessrisknf _
rrrrrnrrl discaseislralfririiofa

Jilscriiedripsronormal smoker

r ayremperarureofhands

zréleeiincrerrsesrirnorrrral "ms

§
§
*3-
§

   

. Valley

HARDWARE STORES

«Lurg carrier death rare for
3 iiiilii average lormersmoieririre

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items .g,,r,._»,,,,,,,~,,,o,;rg:rrm prctadayrrecreasesby

  

     
 

° i?i(lr}édi0pSl0ﬁ0IZnil almobihali

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. oﬂirtcilcielinbirrrrd *Slrrrkeriskisrcduccdtoihai

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 gmlﬁsronafnlai gf3n9n5mok¢;5.15-W

ifierquilling ~._‘
., ii “iii ikisiofcincerofrhcmoulh, ’\
11 S. Jefferson S 463_2595 ‘(.ilillCt’()ill€(£il:lll{lCli m,0Mimpi,3gu5i5h3if .‘
- d°‘¥'“'”~/‘C3 thiiofismolms .4. i

18 |l0ll_S mm;
'3‘l"'l"l‘*_“d““:3.55”*" «Lungcarrcerrleiihrr1esimi-
i9§l"f‘“*l“c°; ' lirroilrarofnorrsmoiers
_ vi-t>i%.ir§=rrrsmell:rrdirrrre .p,mmmiim
zxenhincid mpimd
lilllliioillillilli -Risrrfcmrrfirmwl»
«Circrrlriiirnim arcs 1hma.l‘cS°Pmg““'b‘adder‘
. V . krdrreiand pancreas
vwalirrrglxwmeseasrer démm
lung l‘rrrrcrirrrr increases

   

       
  

SANDWICH SHOP

“Kitchen Lizards” playing on Friday, Nov. 5
9-12 p.m. $3 cover charge

‘ '1 ‘I':'o
n‘n'n‘u 

  

ix \\
W&L Art

 
  
   

 
  
     

 

L V Signatures: uprcrillprrcenr i5 
F't h h L . . - is *
M.‘§m‘é§ 66 J0hr}iqIE£€3t(I)l1'€i(;I‘ Ho 9 lllllllli  6020,,”
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr. icmgghina. ' _ '
Sam Houston A. P. Hill ‘ W: 4 E = hem
  dn 
w&vii.&L  ha‘:?s:r°‘°“ed    riiii‘ ~ . 4 
an . . e im't 't‘ t  '
b SCu1ptureb§e]RoI»:’?‘uIiiS1o:vi)n at irirgic. V W, THE WORLD S MOST POPULAR MUSICAL
“Wand Gwge WaShi“8t°n vim éltﬁnfrit smoker ROANOKE civic CENTER AUDHORIUM 0 NOVEMBER 9-14
_ bli?‘*"d“‘?i5€ Tuesday -. Srriitiiiy at 1:30pm 4 Saturday and Sizmicy 2pm
ﬂ . . ‘CW3 l§§Y03l’ili ' ,‘.__,_' k   [MW Tidicts at the (Mt (eater Box Office and <13 Virginia Ticketmaster outiets.
iungr. rrrcrca<rngrb:l- Group sales imiiiiiioz 703-981-nor . W... 
,4:  "J U  ﬁeiiﬁjétfjysgg‘ Ef:{‘5§"ee‘ éiyrrrliandie mrcuirrean CHﬁiRGE~8Y~PHON£: 703-343-8l00 ------------ --
(703) 464-6464 thelirrgtrerirrceinfccirrrrr E _ . . . _ . _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ O .
 . , 0 _ _ o
C1Jpen M0n5<ia3(') - Saturday  'Br><%}ir0‘€Wllil?lE-‘F Oaszattirrezictnﬁatzeiﬁecisiyg : Just imagine... your ad :
O a'm’ ' '3 p'm‘  inrrcases CBni9!$?Ci9i$8&S€OCHIl‘i31d 0 could be in this space and 0
K J  PM» 2 both you and the Phi I
_K J  2. would be much happier .3

 

 

  

Last Week:

FB—W&L 41, Bridgewater 16
WSoc—Roanoke 4, W&L 1

VB—def R-MW C 3-0

XC—Women 1st, Men 2nd in Invit.

PAGE 12

S

?Jl12 iﬁing-tum iﬂlﬁ

PORTS

This Week:

FB—Guilford, I1/06

XC—at ODAC Champs. 11/06

WP—at East Div. III Champs. 11/06 ’
VB——at ODAC tourney 11/05-06

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

NOVEMBER 5, 1993

Somef3ai[thl;e:
coaches at Was
and Lee hay
doubtsabot1t_,__
and even. ’t
editor’s—<_:_omm1tm

v understanding-ofthe _
cation ofathlete‘ tW

“She’s anﬁt,
self, so why,‘ ‘ "
realize new
working?’ once

8.
ticed; I have tel.
Q deans, facuit

less conversatro
I have Ase
players’

season athletes.  ,
“So yotfvertrai

of you  
do; lha've*he’ard.tize ‘
ments of students zwn.

shouted toa
ning on afreezrnge
this week. :  ‘I
“Are you
screamedtoait ,
ing through ‘tron
training. i  ‘
Many. athlel
aside ‘studies’
activities’
besttheyca
, a school. like
cannot expect. fan six“
and id.°131fY.il3
found at D 
schools.‘ 
Footballandtias 
playersatwashin ,
Lee can pass men
tiresemestersw‘

 

    
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
    
  
 
   
   
  
   

athletes of the
ledthe Old.Dortt _
letic Conference’

thatsimply:faiIed,,t_o
late into ‘was. is

takes piled up to
the win w,t_ren”th’

that the General, 3
Men’s soccer,
suffered :rex;;’_
record and inc ,
but featured,}som.,
bright stars, ‘goal’
the like whose '
was not reflect
; win~iossﬂ.'

 

only thingfellcw
really see,__is he
‘loss, the la
tion ofsozn
viduai contrabut
lead this : ptoblemﬂto

Themessage
dents must rerne V’ _
good team is notahya 
winning team;"likei>v’rs
the athletes ,mt1St‘k’
their achieveme,
hard work are appreciate,

   

   
 

* .«~, n

 
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

 
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Seniors Wilson Moore and Thomas Mason heads toward the goal at Wilson Field.
The Washington and Lee football team won its first game againstsridgewater last

Saturday.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Success spawns success. After
a season that saw the Washington
and Lee women’s tennis team go
undefeated in its fall season, sopho-
more Julie Ayers and junior
Marilyn Baker reached the ﬁnals
of the Division III championships
before falling two sets to one.

Marilyn Baker also ﬁnished in
third place in singles after losing
to the eventual champion in the
semiﬁnals.

The strength of a team, even in

 

gains for the W&L squad.

an individual sport cannot lie with
only two players. On a team that
lost no one to graduation, Ayers
and Baker maintained key roles
in on a team driven by youth.

With eight incoming fresh-
men, the team received an infu-
sion of talent from the start. Ac-
cording to Ayers; “We had a big-
ger team and had incredible
depth. We’re all so close in abil-
ity that we improved off each
other.”

Despite the fact that the team’s
record stands at only 3-0, two of
the wins represented important

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Marilyn Baker struggles to another win on the
tennis courts. She placed third in national competition.

Doubles take second

Radford was a Division I school,
and Mary Washington presented
a special challenge. “A lot of it
was personal rivalries. We had
never beaten Mary Washington,”
said Ayers of Washington and
Lee’s victory.

Baker said, “Our goal at the
beginning of the season was to
beat Mary Washington, since
they’ve always been the team to
keep us out of the national team
competition.”

Concerning the Radford
match, Ayers remarked, “We
never thought we’d beat Radford
since they’re Division I and they
beat us pretty badly last year.”

The season began in promis-
ing fashion with the arrival of the
incoming freshmen and retum-
ing players. “We knew it was
going to be a good year,” said
Ayers.

Baker echoed this.

“Our tennis season was fan-
tastic!” she said.

These early season expecta-
tions were more than born out
during the course of the fall por-
tion of the campaign. As a side
note, Baker is a junior and Ayers
a sophomore, so one would ex-
pect the team to continue its win-
ning ways through next year as
well.

The spring section of the 93-
94 season should be a strong one
for the Generals as well. “We
expect to do just as well in the
spring—provided we work,” said
Baker. “Our goal is to go to Na-
tionals as a team.”

In listing reasons for the
team’s success, both Baker and
Ayers cited team unity, and Baker
listed team goals, and willing-
ness to work hard as major fac-
tors. According to Baker, condi-
tioning was a major facet of the
team as well.

On a squad that traditionally
improves in the spring, the W&L
tennis gurus are aiming to con-
tinuetheirwinningwaysthrough-
out the year.

 

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Another week, another great back, another fresh-
man quarterback. It sounds like the same old, same
old with Guilford College visiting Wilson Field
Saturday for the ﬁnal conference game of the year
for both them and Washington and Lee. The Gen-
erals can cam a fourth-place Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference finish with a win.

Last weekend produced another thriller for the
W&L parents, who last time in town witnessed the
Generals 17-16 upset of Sewanee. A school-record
ﬁve touchdown runs by senior Tom Mason carried
the Generals to a 41-16 slaughter of Bridgewater.
The point total was their most since 1989 and
W&L’s sixth-highest output in 16 years.

The Quakers will bring along for the ride an
offense that may look familiar—they throw the ball
nearly as little as Bridgewater College, while star-
ring an explosive running back.

“They’re similar to what we’re playing with,”
said W&L head coach Gary Fallon. “They have a
lot of young talent that each week, like us, seems to
get better.”

Guilford (1-7, 0-4 ODAC) has struggled all year
while being outscored by a better than 2-1 margin.
However, they are coming off a near upset of the
ODAC’s top team, Randolph-Macon College. The
Yellow Jackets were bailed out by two touchdown
grabs by receiver Garry Carter in their 16-13 es-
cape of Guilford. With Guilford bouncing back
from a 46-14 thumping by Emory and Henry, so
last week’s game may not necessarily be a sign
Guilford is playing much better football. The Quak-
ers beat the Jackets last year, and Fallon thinks that
may suggest something about the Quakers’ perfor-
mance last week.

“They upset Randolph-Macon in a bizarre game
we couldn’t believe [last year],” Fallon said. “They
apparently get up for Macon.”

Looking up for the Quakers-on the ground, at
least—is sophomore running back Jeff Hatch. Hatch,
a transfer student from junior college, may just be
the ODAC’s best new talent. His 766 rushing yards
are the second highest total in the conference, and
Hatch places third in the ODAC with a 95.8 yards/
game average. Like Bridgewater, Guilford features
a freshman quarterback whose primary job is to
hand the ball to Hatch. QB Donald Gwynn has
completed just 20 passes, only 15 of those to the
right team.

The two men ahead of Hatch,,on the ODAC’s
rushing list did their share of racking-up yardage at
Wilson Field last Saturday as Bridgewater’s Ronnie
Howard (214 yards) and Mason (230 yards) tore up
the turf. Howard went over 1000 yards for the
season and is now averaging a conference-best
143.8 yards/game. However, subtracting Howard’s
two 50-plus yard runs, the W&L defense held the
conference-leader to an average of three yards/
carry.

For Mason, the game was a classic. In one of the
single-greatest individual performances in school
history, the senior set W&L rushing records for

Mason eads fooball’s first victory

yards, touchdowns (ﬁve), and points (32—he caught _

a two-point conversion). 0
His 1,255 career rushing yards are ninth best in

Washington and Lee history and just 61 yards out ‘

of seventh. Mason, who began his college career as
a defensive back, has played just 11 games in the
Generals’ backﬁeld. He was named the ODAC’s
player of the week for his historic Parent’s Week-
end performance. . 4"

Tri-captain Mason overcame a sore knee to pick

up 119 ﬁrst-half yards and his ﬁrst three touch- '

downs on 21 carries. His longest run of the day was
for only 15, which says a lot about his consistency.

Fullback Wilson Moore was a pillar of consis-
tency as well for W&L, which did not lose yardage
on a play from scrimmage and committed no
turnovers. Moore carried the ball for 49 yardsgand
was the team’s top receiver, gaining 64 yards on
seven receptions. The senior tri-captain fell less
than a yard short of the goal-line on one of his
catches, setting up Mason’s second TD run.

Even special teams performed well for the Gen-
erals as sophomore kicker Drew Thomas nailed
ﬁeld goals from 43 and 27 yards. Freshman puﬂter
Jon Gardner saw limited action as W&L scored on
seven of nine possessions, but booted punts of 44
and 46 yards.

Coach Fallon felt that everything seemed to go
right for the Generals that day.

“It’s a fun day when things click like that,” he
said. The win was the 70th of Fallon’s Washingon
and Lee career.

Fallon instituted a new quarterback rotation that

he plans to continue with for now. Freshman Brooks "

Fischer started the game, as usual. Sophomore
Matt Reedy, though, entered the game on W&L’s
next possession and the two continued to alternate
at quarterback until late in the fourth quarter, wﬁen

sophomore Jon Lakamp came on the ﬁeld to wrap ‘

things up. 4

“We wanted to take some pressure off of
Brooks,” Fallon said, “and we wanted to give
Reedy some work out there, as well. I felt at 0-6 we
had to ﬁnd some spark, so I told both quarterbacks
we’d give it a shot.” _ Q

Neither Fischer nor Reedy needed to throw
much, courtesy of “Touchdown Tommy,” but they
did ﬁnish with solid numbers. The freshman was 5-
for-10 passing for 42 yards, while Reedy went a
perfect S-for-5, gaining 48 aerial yards.

“Both threw the ball well,” said junior wide-
receiver Jake Kimball. “With the way things wgnt,
they didn’t have to do anything out of the game-
plan.”

That game plan gave the Generals 423 total
yards of offense. As with the 41 points, the total
yards was a team-high over the past four seasons.
Much of the credit belongs to the W&L offensive
line of Derek Boggs, Ryan J ander, Andrew Stat n,
John Surface, and Bob Turner. Although M on
never broke a long run, he also was never tackled
for a loss. He left the game following his ﬁfth
touchdown carry, a two-yard scamper with eight
minutes left in the game.

Next week, Washington and Lee will play their
ﬁnal state-side game of the ’93 season as ‘he
Generals host Catholic at Wilson Field.

Steve wraps up baseball,
ﬁnally; opens hoops season

For you die-hards, the foot-

coaching.

 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

’Tis the season of change in
the world of sports.

While baseball is doling out
achievement awards, the Na-
tional Basketball Association
is preparing for another gruel-
ingcampaign (that usually,like
hockey, extends well into the
next baseball season—this is al-
ways a source of solace to base-
ball fans who sufferwithdrawal
at this time of year).

The American League an-
nounced its Cy Young award
winner on Tuesday, going with
Jack Morris—-excuse me—Jack
Mcdowell of the Chicago White
Sox. Coming in second was,
well, for those of you that care,
Randy “Where is itgoing?!?!?”
Johnson, the Seattle wild-man
who struck out 308 batters this
year to lead both leagues (prob-
ably because the hitters were
scared to death of being killed).

On Friday, the NBA opens
its season without Michael Jor-
dan. Those sounds you hear are
the network execs and owners
cringing at the thought of los-
ing one of the biggest attrac-
tions in sports. I know it’s
early, but I’m going to go out on
a limb and predict that the Dal-
las Mavericks will NOT win
the NBA title. If the Mets played
basketball, this would be their
team.

In all seriousness, the team
to beat will be the New York
Knicks. Watch out for the Suns
and those up-and-comers, the
Hornets, Magic and Heat. The
Knicks, Suns, Hornets, and
Portland Trailblazers are prob-
ably the strongest teams in the
league this year.

ball slate from this past Sunday
produced some truly “swell”
games. One of the best, and most
controversial, was the Detroit
Lions’ win over the Minnesota
Vikings at Minnesota on Sunday
night.

With less than one minute on
the clock, and Detroit trailing
27-23, Lions QB Rodney Peete
threw what appeared to be an
incompletion on fourth down that
would have given the game to the
Vikings. However, a late ﬂag for
defensive pass interference gave
the ball back to Detroit on the
one yard line. Detroit scored and
won the game.

I just have one thing to say:
That ref has more courage than a
badger in heat to make a call like
that (I had to watch the replay
two or three times to see the
infraction) IN Minnesota.

The college basketball world
always deﬁes those gurus of early
season predictions. That is, of
course, because I have not been
involved.

This year, though, there is a
startling amount of parity. The
only two remaining powerhouses
are Kentucky and North Caro-
lina. Both teams were successful
in replacing graduating seniors
and have wonderful coaches.

Indiana and Duke will also turn
in impressive seasons if for no
other reason than exceptional

Parting Shots-

Mr. Montana, don’t you.
think it’s time to retire?

All those who think that
Don Shula is God, raise your
hand. AfterDan Marino goes
down for the year, Shula still
manages to win with super-
sub Scott Mitchell. Last.
weekend the 31 year coach-
ing veteran tied George
Halas with 324 wins for ﬁrst
on the all time coaching win
list.

In a cost cutting effort,
the National College Ath-
letic Association has decided
to hold a playoff at the end of
the season between Duke and
North Carolina to determine
the national title. The move
saves the NCAA money and
a lot of embarrassment for
other college basketball’
teams.

Finally, the Falcons lived
up to my standards last week
by losing to TAMPA BAY!

I think “inept” is a germane
description of the Bucca-
necrs. C’mon Jerry, you can I
do better than that (you’d
better).

Somebody, PLEASE
beat Buffalo and keep them
out of the Superbowl.

That is enough madness
and mayhem for this week, 0
auf wiedersehenl

  

