4.~L,a v- ‘I V10‘

P 65  LEXINGTON, VA 24450

"" 0*‘ 35;: 1 o 1993

Take a hike

to   
,   Weekend Weather.
Today: Partly sunny-, low 80’s‘
The Outing Club leads Freshmen
to the saddle of House Mountain
and plans for the coming year.

  Bump, set, spike
Women’s Volleyball
gets a new coach.

Tonight: Clear and noticeably
V” cooler, low in the 50's ‘ .
Saturday: Sunny, mid-70’s

Sunday: Sunny, low‘ 7 0’s

1 0

he ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂlri

VOLUME 93, NO. 01

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 10, 1993

  Faculty houses
hit by burglaries

he Watson Pavilion was completed in June and opened in August.

* rt pavilion opens

 sian fine art on display

. By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

The Watson Pavilion is
open.

At last, the building most
students seemed to hate can be
seeg from the inside and out.

' ut not everyone hated it.

“I ’m enchanted,” said Eliza-
beth Watson, the donor of the
building and the majority ofits
contents. “It’s one of the hap-
piest things that’s ever hap-

perwl to me.”
atson decided to make
Washington and Lee the re-
cipient of her extensive Orien-
' tal porcelain and art collection
in memory of her husband
William, a 1929 W&L gradu-
ate. Watson‘s gift to the Uni-
vergity includes collections of
porcelain, jade, bronze, ivory,
and silver, and ranges in age
from the first century B.C. to
the 19th century A.D.
“I wanted to go back for-
ever. I wanted older Chinese
por9,elain,” Watson said. “I

wanted a stimulus for students
[that would encourage] strong
East Asian studies.”

In addition, she gave W&L
the funds needed to house the
collection in a new building.
The Watson Pavilion and the
Reeves Center will also house
recent gifts from the collec-
tions of Groke Mickey, Mr.
and Mrs. Bolton McBryde, and
Mrs. William L. Wilson.

Students and faculty com-
plainedthatthe buildingwould
not fit in with the rest of the
Colonnade when plans for the
building were revealed two
years ago.

But opinions have changed
now that the building is com-
plete, said recently named
Reeves Center and Watson
Pavilion Director Tom
Litzenburg.

“Visitor and University re-
sponse has been overwhelm-
ingly favorable,” said
Litzenburg. “The Palladian ar-
chitecture is compatible with
the Greek revival architecture
of the Colonnade, and with the

collections and the way they ’re
exhibited.”

Litzenburg has been in-
terim director of the Reeves
Center and Watson Pavilion
since former director James
Whitehead retired in May
1992. Litzenburg is a 1957
graduate of W&L, and has a
Bachelor of Divinity degree
from Yale University and a
Master of Arts and a Ph. D.
from Princeton University.

He’ served as assistant
chairman of the National En-
dowment for the Humanities
from 1979 to 1981, and as
president of Salem College
from 1982-1991.

Litzenburg said that he be-
gan placing porcelain in the
display cases in mid-June, af-
ter the construction was com-
pleted. He finished the dis-
plays in late July, and the Pa-
vilion opened to vistors in
August. The original Febru-
ary opening date was pushed
back due to construction com-

->See WATSON, pg. 6

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Dean Elrod said that he has not added any
additional security to his home. The burglars
entered through an open

Thieves have preyed on Lexington three
times this summer—twice within the Washing-

ton and Lee community.

The third Lexington strike came on August
25 in the home of Dean of the College John
Elrod. The thieves took $12,000 in silver and
jewelry, carrying the items out of the house in
Mrs. Elrod’s sewing machine case. Their home

was undamaged.

According to Lexington Police Seargeant
Torben Pedersen, the culprit is a gang of thieves

following a well-worn pattern.

“This is a phenomenon that takes place
every year in Maryland, Virginia, and Pennsyl-
vania,” said Pedersen. “Groups referred to as
gypsies ﬂy into an area, rent a car, and go on

(burglary) sprees.

“They have already cased the places- then
they break in and usually take silver and jew-

elry.”

not unwary.

Elrod said.

window, not even damag-
ing the screen. But he is

“[We] need to be aware
of the fact that there are
unscrupulous people that
come to Lexington and
take valuable things,”

According to Pedersen,
the thieves have burgled

more than 70 houses in

Virginia this year alone,
including the home of Dr.
Tom Litzenburg, Acting University Chaplain
and Director of the Reeves Center and the
Watson Pavilion. The thieves broke in on the
day of Baccalaureate exercises and took silver
and jewelry from the Litzenberg home. The
same theives burglarized the home of Lexing-

Elrod

ton resident James Brown.
Police have some leads in the case thanks to

a thief’s fingerprint found
in the Elrod home. Police
also have a witness’ de-
scription of two women
with a brown suitcase and a
man with gray hair seen
leaving the Elrod’s home
in a blue car.

Pedersen said the gang
may consist of several hun-
dred people working in
teams of three or four. They
do not use force or damage
the houses they burglarize.

Pedersen said that al-

though W&L students should safeguard their
belongings, they are probably in no danger
from the gang of thieves.

“Students won’t be threatened unless they
have 30 to 40 thousand dollars worth of silver,”
said Pedersen.

Campus check-cashing nixed

By THOMAS HESPOS
PhiNews Editor

Scenario: You’re buying some
books at the University Bookstore.
You’re out of cash and you need
some beer money for later tonight.
No problem. You’ll just write the

bookstore check for ten bucks more '

than the amount of the books, right?
Wrong.

According to a memo circu-
lated by University Treasurer
Lawrence Broomall, theUniversity
policy regarding check cashing has
turned a complete about-face.

‘‘It will now be the University’s
policy that the use of personal
checks on campus will be limited
to the exact amount of a purchase,”
said Broomall in thelune 17memo.
“This policy is effective immedi-

ately.”
Broomall cites several reasons
for the change, saying in the memo

that the University’s annual. audit ’

by Coopers and Lybrand spawned
the recommendation for the change
in policy.

“The reasons for this new policy
are: cashing checks increases the
University’s exposure to potential
bad debt liability,” said the memo,
“the cost of processing the checks
and the security risks associated
with such activity has increased;
the volume of check activity on
campus has increased dramati-
cally.”

Broomall said the “security
risk” referred to in the memo oc-
curs when bookstore employees
carry the checks to the bank and
return to campus with the cash on
foot. He said that in some cases,

bookstore employees walk from
the bank to the campus with large
sums of money, which may seem
tempting to a robber. Broomall
said the memo was never intended
to imply that bookstore employees
might be cashing checks in a dis-
honest fashion, or that students
cannot be trusted to avoid bounc-
ing checks.

“If we didn’thave honestpeople
in there (the bookstore), we’d al-
ready be in trouble,” he said.

Broomall said he discussed
changing the policy last year with
then-Executive Committee Presi-
dent Josh MacFarland. Broomall
said MacFarland was understand-
ing of the university’s situation.

“[MacFarland] said it wasn’t an
honor system issue,” said
Broomall. “He seemed comfort-
able with it.”

According to Broomall, pro-
cessingfees forcheckcashing have
exceeded $100 for certain months.

Tidge Roller of the University
Bookstore agrees that the cost of
cashing checks has been exces-
sive.

“[The bank] started charging
us in May,” she said. “lt was
something like $150 for June.”

The installation of an automatic
teller machine on campus has been
discussed as a possible remedy for
the situation. Broomall said he
may have a proposal for a campus
ATM within a week.

“We’ve been pushing for it,”
said Roller.

Broomall was optimistic with
regard to the possibility of a cam-
pus ATM, saying the probability
of acquiring one was “fairly high.”

Students love, hate phones

9 By Nancy Pavlovic
Phi Managing Editor

What started out as a simple phone
system upgrade promises to turn into
the first love/hate relationship of the
year.

"She “new phone system” is more
like an expansion ofthe system that the
administration has been using since the
early 19803. Last year, staff size and
modern technology surpassed the ca-
pacities ofwashington and Lee
University’s 10-year-old telephone
sysﬁm switch. According to Director
of University Serviceslames Johndrow,
the University had been looking into
replacing that switch and better serving
the needs of students living on campus.

“Technology had outgrown our
switch and we just ran out of room
on e system,” Johndrow said. “We
knew we had to replace that switch and
figured we might as well go ahead and
add phones to the dorms. Then it was a
simple step to go ahead and do fiber
optics and cable.”

Because of an agreement with
Adglphia Cable, cable cost for on— cam-
pu housing will also lower with this
new system. The cost ofcable for the
year drops to $155 for basic service
with no connection fee. Students with
cable in the common area will receive
basic service free and will only have
monthly charges for premium service
likg HBO, Cinemax, Showtime or
Disney.

Until this fall, students living on
campus had to provide their own phone
and answering machines and deal di-
rectly with the local phone company,
Centel, for service. The new ROLM
phﬂne system makes those hassles ob-

;olete but the new system does come
vith problems of its own.

“There’s some confusion about how
‘tings work. But, so far, most of the
roblems have been with students liv-

!- in doubles and not being able to get
‘ .

into phone mail,” said Dana Camper,
the Telecommunications Customer
Service Representative.

When the new system was loaded,
every student was assigned a long dis-
tance authorization code and a phone—
mail password. The long distance au-
thorization allows them to place long
distance calls from any campus phone
and have it billed directly to their line.
Students living in doubles were listed
alphabetically in phone—mail. To ac-
cess their messages, the roomate with
the first name alphabetically must dial
a 1 after their extension number and
the second roomate must add a 2 to
their extension number. According to
Johndrow, many of the problems stu-
dents are having with the system can
be solved quite simply.

“People are really not reading the
literature,” Johndrow said. “Weare
willing to help anyone but please read
the literature first.”

Students are responding with mixed
reviews of the new system thatwas
designed to be convenient and save
them money.

“It’s a bit confusing but it does
seem to come with some
realconveniences,” senior Nikki
Mayfield said. “As long as I get my
messages, that’s all that I care about.”

But for senior Maurice Cole,
“Phone—mail is generally a good idea,
but it’s not efficient. After everybody
learns how to use it, it will be a good
thing.”

Camper also said some parents are
having trouble reaching their children
with the new 462 exchange.

“Sometimes the local long distance
company hasn’t put the new exchange
into their computers so it’ll tell you
that number doesn’t exist,” Camper
said. “But parentsjust need to call their
local long distance company and have
the company put the new exchange in
if they continue to have trouble.”

Johndrow said many of the addi-
tions like phone—mail and cable were

added in hopes of enticing more stu-
dents to live on campus and to improve
the quality of life in the dorms.

“With the new phone system, stu-
dents can access anything from any
touch—tone phone that they can do from
their room,” Johndrow said. “Hope—
fully the addition of the new system
will encourage students to move back
on campus.”

The University borrowed the $1.25
million spent to install the new phone
system and to provide cable and com-
puter jacks in all on-campus housing.
The Chavis House, the International
House and the Outing Club House are
also on the system. Each fraternity will
have two system phones installed but
will not be able to make long distance
calls on those lines.

In an effort to ease the transition to
the new system, University Services
will be holding training sessions for all
students livingon campus. Gaines resi-
dents will be the first to benefit from
this information session which will be
held Tuesday, September 14 at 7 p.m.
in the Gatehouse. Freshmen will be
next to receive the hands-on help that
will attempt to showcase all the fea-
tures available.

The new system comes complete
with call waiting, conference calling,
save/repeat dialing, camp—on calling
and a host of other features. With the
new system, on—campus housing tele-
phone numbers no longer go in nu-
merical order. So knowing one num-
ber does not mean being able to figure
out all other numbers in that suite or
onthat floor. The new system allows
calls to be traced if made from another
on—campus line.

“The system was loaded with ran-
dom numbers to provide more per-
sonal security forthe students,” Camper
said. ‘‘If a problem comes up, we can
track the call. If you’re making pranks,
it’ll come back to haunt you.”

Photo by Fran Kefalas, The Ring-tum Phi

Freshmen leap into the air while calling out their birth month, January, at Playfair on Saturday,
September 4. The Freshman Orientation Committee organized Playfair to help break the ice.

FOC finishes orientation

by RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Freshmen Orientation Committee
activities for the class of 1997 ended
Wednesday, but plans are already be-
ing made for next year’s freshmen.
Kris Fegenbush and Sue Krawchuk
have been named as the new co-chairs
of the FOC.

Current FOC co-chair Carlin Jones
was pleased with how this year’s orien-
tation week went.

“The parents I met loved the pro-
cess, and I couldn’t have asked for a
better staff,” Jones said.

“I have confidence that Sue and

Kris will do a greatjob - they know this
program in an integral way,” Jones
added.

Tentative plans for next year call for
the role of the small groups and the
small group leaders to be increased in
the whole orientation week. Also in
consideration is a mandatory service
project.

“A lot of schools require freshmen
to do community service, and we think
that if we take the excitement and mo-
tivation that freshmen have during ori-
entation and apply it to helping people,
it will make their next four years in
college much better,” Fegenbush said.

The alcohol awareness seminars

may also be moved up during orienta-
tion week to inform the freshmen about
the realities of the W&L social scene.

“Drinking is prevalent on this cam-
pus, and freshmen need to be aware at
the beginning of school of the regula-
tions,” said Krawchuk.

This year’s hiking trip in conjunc-
tion with the Outing Club will prob-
ably be continued next year. There
may be additional trips, such as camp-
ing, depending on liability, Fegenbush
said.

The FOC plans to poll freshmen
soon so as to gauge reaction to this
year’s events. An organizational meet-
ing is also planned to take place soon.

PAGE 2

 

 

@112 filing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Something Old,
Something New

It has been built.

Despite student petitions and months of grumbling ,the
Watson Pavilion has been completed and the Watson
collection is on display.

You know what? We’re glad.

We understand that the University tore down an old,
beautiful tree to build the Watson Pavilion. It would be nice
of the university to plant another tree to replace the one
they tore down, but the Watson Pavilion’s value goes far
‘beyond a tree.

We understand that the buildinglooks a little different
than most of the other buildings on campus, but then again,
so does the Leyburn Library. There was not a protest when
the university proposed building the library.

The students’ impassioned protest over the construction
of the Watson Pavilion failed to realize its intrinsic schol-
arly worth. The educational value of the Watson Pavilion
extends to several areas- the arts, East Asian studies, and
architecture, to name a few.

We understand that it is at the end of the Colonnade, but
it is not the first thing to catch a visitor’s eye. The comple-
tion of the Watson Pavilion has proven that the building is
not the architectural eyesore so many had feared it would
be.

Trees and aesthetics aside, the Watson Pavilion is a
tremendous gift to this university; a gift Mrs. Watson did
not have to give. She chose W&L to be the benefactor of
her collection; a collection many other universities would
have taken without a word of protest and placed exactly
where she wanted it. Many students here complained about
the Pavilion without ever finding out what they were
talking about. We can not help but wonder if many of these
students will bother to take a tour of the new Pavilion, or
of the Reeves Center which has been open since the early
80s.

Elizabeth Watson’s collection, some of which dates
back to first century B.C., is priceless. Everyone affiliated
with W&L should be thrilled to have such _a respected
collection on campus. ‘ A

Mrs. Watson, if you ever get a chance to read this, thank

you.
—-F.K., M.B., N.P.

O
The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

 

Military should shut the closet

President Clinton, by attempting to lift the ban on
gays in the military, has risked the effectiveness of the
military to pander to the radical gay lobby. The
military ’s authority over its admissions and its mem-
bers’ conduct has been overtaken by the gay lobby’s
political inﬂuence. For an institution that depends on
strict discipline, the
military’s loss of au-

them the freedom of living an “altemative lifestyle.”
The ﬂaw in this logic arises from its contention that
the military must not deny individual freedoms. The
military has no place for individual freedom. Even the
notion that the military should attempt to be tolerant of
individual’s “lifestyles” is preposterous. The military
has one purpose: providing security

for the U.S. Everything about the

thority threatens its ca- military should serve this end. Sac-
pabilities to perform riﬁcing individual ri hts rocures
. . . . . . g P

missionswith minimal ANDREW the strict discipline needed by any
loss of life. military force.

Fortunately, mili- OLMEM Individuals outside the military
tary leaders, such as '96 enjoy the freedoms of speech and

Colin Powell, so
strongly opposed lift-

 

movement, but they need to be de-
nied to individuals inside the mili-

ing the ban that Presi-

dent Clinton found

himself without the political strength to completely
overcome them. A compromise, “Don’t ask, don’t
tell,” was all that President Clinton could drag from
them. The ambiguous policy fails to set down ﬁrm
rules of acceptable conduct and further contributes to
the military’s loss of strict discipline.

President Clinton never wanted to lift the ban to
improve the U.S.’s military; rather it was to reward
the gay lobby for its political support. Their vast
political resources greatly contributed to his victory.
And as a president who received signiﬁcantly less
than ﬁfty percent of the vote, he needs their resources
in the 1996 election.

The Clinton administration justiﬁed its pander to
the gay lobby by asserting that the military must allow
all its members to live their own lifestyle. Gays are
ordinary citizens who j ust live an “altemative lifestyle.”
They have, as all individuals do, a right to pursue
happiness without hindrance from the government.
Citizens and government need to respect all lifestyles.
The military, like all individuals and institutions,
should not discriminate against gays and prohibit

tary. The military’s task of protect-
ing the country, a duty of the high-
est importance, demands that it has the special privi-
lege of denying individual free-
doms. Depriving it of this in-

cannot be considered a protector of liberty. Could
President Clinton find that the Democratic Party
has discriminated against conservatives, and try to
rectify this injustice by having the government
force the appointment of conservatives to its lead-
ership? Of course not. Government should not
force individuals or organizations into undesired
associations, especially with individuals who mor-
ally repulse them, like gays.

The gay lobby, for all its rhetoric about striving?
for freedom cares nothing about it. The reason they
fought so hard to lower the ban was not because
they had an uncontrollable desire to serve the
country. They hoped to force individuals within
the military and society at large to accept their
lifestyles, even if it resulted in the weakening of
American military power. Unfortunately our comQ
mander-in-chief who should guard against such
threats cares more about political paybacks and
getting re-elected
than producing a

dispensable authority need-
lessly jeopardizes the lives of
both military and civilian citi-

The military can also pro-
hibit gays from joining, since it

strong military.
American so-
ciety depends orb

zens. ' ' having a military
It should not be concluded has the. nght ti’ choose wlth capable of pro-
rnn the military has the power Whom It ass0c1ates.A govern- tectingitfrom for-

under this pretext to discrimi-
nate and deny liberty to indi-
viduals outside the military.
While it should havevast pow-
ers to organize itself, its au-
thority should remain limited

liberty.

ment that tells its citizens with
whom they must associate can-
not be considered a protector of

eign aggression.
Liberty cannot
exist in a society
continually over-.
run by foreign
powers. Its func-

to its own boundaries. Only

lawmakers have any authority to impose restrictions

on individual freedoms for national security concerns.
The military can also prohibit gays from joining,

since it, like any individual or organization, has the

right to choose with whom it associates. A government

that tells its citizens with whom they must associate

tion is too vital to
use it for the promotion of radical lifestyles. Mili-
tary personnel should have our society’s deepest
respect and gratitude, for surrendering their
lifestyles so that America may enjoy the products
of liberty, not its contempt for prohibiting a speciaﬁ
interest group’s selfish desire.

“An AIDS Story” touches all of us

:0

PHI F.Y.I.

As you might have noticed, The Ring-tum Phi did not
come out yesterday like it has in the past. Starting this term,
the Phi will be published once a week on Fridays. Changing
the publication date to Friday will allow us to focus more on
week—to—week news and provide better coverage of events
on campus and in the area. _ ‘

Quote of the Week

An emperor found Rome in bricks and left it

marble. John Wilson found W&L in bricks and
left it many, many, many more bricks.

—Reginald Alton, guest speaker at Opening
Convocation and retired Bursar and Vice-
Principal of St. Edmund’s College at Oxford
University.

@112 Ewing-tum iﬂlri

In this first column of the year I
would like to talk about something that
means quite a bit to me personally and
it is my sincere hope that it will come to
be equally important to you. It is some-
thing that, whether we know it or not,
involves all of us. It is the ﬁght against
AIDS.

Those of you who are returning this

Some still believe that AIDS is about
homosexuality and that as long as
you’re not gay you can’t get AIDS. If
you feel this way I should tell you that
you are not alone. In fact there are
thousands of people sitting in doctor’s
ofﬁces and hospital rooms right now
who are still trying to figure out how it
is that they are heterosexual and are

 

yntar nmay known now HIV-Posi-
‘at 33tYea1' tive. If you
fplrgrgegd an would like to
1103' join that club
IIOII Pl’0jCCl on  than all you
Ems camp“ to MCDERMOTT need do is con-
1nC1'°3S¢ the .94 tinue thinking
awareness of tha;way_
the  COm- There are
mum‘). I be- also some folks

lieve we had a

very successful year and I am looking
forward to this year. I was most pleased
by the fact that our events and meetings
were not just attended by a core group
of members, but by a cross—section of
the campus. I felt this was particularly
appropriate since this disease effects
everyone. More and more I ﬁnd that
almost everyone has “An AIDS Story”
to tell. I have heard stories about broth-
ers and sisters, aunts and uncles, nieces
and nephews, mothers and fathers, and
friends all dead from this plague. These
stories have come from alumni and
faculty, from students and staff mem-
bers. They are all equally painful and
they all exemplify the horror of this
disease.

What many of these people tell me
is that they are still grieving for their
loved ones and that they live in fear that
this grieving is going to continue be-
cause they see their friends on this
campus engaging in behavior which is
not safe. Many people here have some
real misconceptions about this disease.

on this campus
who feel that this disease was meant
for homosexuals and that it was sent by
God to destroy them. I find this to be a
particularly interesting argument be-
cause it usually comes from the same
people, who, if you let them, will sit
you down and tell you how much Jesus
loves you! If you want to believe that
He is the one sending down diseases
than why not believe that in this coun-
try He chose the gay community to
suffer first because he wanted us to
develop compassion and love for a
group of people we had shunned as
outcasts for too long. Further, He
intertwined the path of the disease so
that if we did not deal with it immedi-
ately and with a total lack of bigotry,
our actions would return to haunt us as
the disease began to enter the general
population. Indeed, that is exactly what
has happened.

There is one last group of people on
campus who are relatively well in-
formed about the disease, they know
how it is transmitted, they know that it

can affect all different types of people,
and they think that they can engage in
high risk unprotected behavior and
never get infected because, “If my part-
ner had AIDS they would look sick,”
or, “I think I know who this person has
sleptwith and they’re OK.” If you have
said these or similar things to yourself
before, then all I have to say to you is
that the Health Center offers confiden-
tial HIV Antibody testing and you
should probably take a walk over and
sign up. After that, it wouldn’t be a bad
idea to take a walk downtown and buy
yourself a box of condoms, if you plan

our campus’ professional Health Edu
cator, Jan Kaufman, at extension 8590.
Finally, I would ask you to join the
efforts of the AIDS Education Project.
We can always use some fresh ideas
and an extra pair of hands. Otherwise,
you should learn how to protect your-
self. Whether you choose at-stinence.
or condoms, that is up to you, but you
have an obligation to be informed, both
to yourself and to those you care about.
Some people have said that we will
be the first generation of college gradu-
ates who attend more funerals than
weddings. In fact there are many people!

to continue to be not much older
SCXl.I3lly active. than us, who
Iurge )’0U_t0 m""'—"*'—"*—— look around
?°°°md° b 1"‘ I have heard stories them and real-
Ofmﬁ 8 Out ize that all of
this diS€3S€~ If a_b0ut brothers and theirfriendsare
you have ques— sisters, aunts and uncles, gone. .,
“°"5 V°“ have nieces and ne hews T"“‘“‘“‘b°“l
many excellent P 9 that for 3 sec-
sources that you mothers and fathers, ond_ [ma ﬁne
O u g
:‘nasYnf°"‘a°‘ and friends all dead  tW<n>u1d
€1’S- - ee 1 e o ose
from this la e These -
have an on.-cam- p g“ ' your five clos-
pus honline you stories have come from est friends?
mayca anytime - Imagine no
at 464_AIDS alumni and faculty, having nnynne
(2437) you may from students and staff to go out and
3‘S°°a‘“h°C°“‘ members. They are all Party With-
ters for Disease . Imagine not
ll f l d th
Control’s Na- equa y paln u an ey being able to
tlionnciininlotlnirlrnezat all exemplify the horror really talk to
- - - ' ' anyone. Imag-
AIDS (2437)_ If of this disease. incbeingnlone
youwishtospeak in a hospital
With someone in room and won-
PCTSOIL 011 3 deringhowev-

strictly confidential basis, you may
make an appointment with the physi-
cians at the Health Center (Inﬁrmary),
you can contact the counseling office,
or you can make an appointment with

erything fell apart so fast. If things
continue as they are and people con-
tinue to be uninformed about this dis-0
ease, you will not have to imagine
much longer.

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David Wilmington

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advenising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.’ Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Advenising does not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

LETTERS

“Women's House” should not be built, unfair to men ’

To the editor:

I am an independent male member of the class of
1994. I recently was perusing the May 1993 issue of
Women ’s Forum when I came across the proposal for
a “Women’s House” which was submitted by this
group.

I shall state up front that I disagree with the
continuing existence of Women ’s Forum, as I believe
that, whereas during the early days of co-education,
such a group may have been necessary, at this point
the stresses faced by male and female students are
essentially the same, and that the continued existence
of a female support group can only be justified by the
formation of such a group for male students.

Along these same lines, I greatly resent the sug-
gestion of the construction/designation of a “Women’s
House” without an accompanying structure for men.
As an independent student, I have made minimal use

of the fraternity facilities, to say the least. I believe that
these groups should not be considered a formal part of
the university, and that any use of the fraternity facili-
ties should not be considered use of an “official”
university facility, as these groups are not funded by the
university, nor were the houses built by the university.
I am, however, fully in favor of the sororities (and

_ women’s fraternities) being allowed to, indeed, in light

of the recent “Renaissance,” perhaps financially en-
couraged to build their own houses.

It is also my understanding, however, that such
facilities are not desired by the sororities on campus
because these facilities would then have to compete
with the fraternity houses for attendance at social
functions and the like. Then, if the sorority members
are willing to sacriﬁce their own facilities so they may
take advantage of those presented by the fraternities,
they should not be rewarded with a university-spon-

sored and paid for building of their own. If the
women’s groups are willing to band together and
build their own building with an equal amount of
assistance, as was received by the fraternities, and.
with the same restrictions placed upon them, then

I fully encourage their efforts.

If the university’s much-vaunted new student
center is built (an idea which many ofthe women’s
groups on campus support), then it would serve as
an ideal co—ed facility, not restricted to use by
men’s or women’s groups, and which would equi-g
tably serve all students. However, should a
Women’s House be built, then there should be a
“Men’s House” of equal size and quality provided,
so equality could be restored to the campus.

Matthew J. Appel, ‘94

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

D

Spos slingshots into Lexington

.Q\
SPos’ SPACE

Tom Hespos

Greetings and salutations to all!
After a long summer of having fun and
drinking beer, Spos is looking forward
to another year at Washington and Lee,
filled with days and nights of... having
fun and drinking beer. This year will
be slightly different with regard to the
appearance of Spos’ Space in your
fdendly college newspaper. I will be
alternating on-and-off with “Dream
Land,” a humor column written by
Opinion Editor and stud-in-training
Richard Weaver.

No longer will Spos have to deal
with weekly deadlines (sigh of relief).
/‘.s a result, I will only be able to harrass
the student body on a bi-weekly basis,
quite unlike the weekly ritual of last
year. By the way, if vou’re a freshman
and have no idea of what the hell I am
talking about, just cruise on to the next
sentence, where I will discuss... Stu-
pid things Spos did over the sum-
nﬁrz The legend of the mighty sling-
shot

Early in the summer, after a long
hard day of digging ditches, I sat down
in front of the television, hoping to
catch one of those cool cop shows

where policemen beat innocent civil-
iaQs with nightsticks for jaywalking
offenses. Instead, I turned on the tube
and saw three beautiful girls in bikinis
operating what appeared to be a giant

slingshot. The wheels in Spos’ devi-
ant mind slowly began to turn.

“Fire water balloons over 200 yards
with our Aqua-Sling water balloon
slingshot,” said the voice on my tele-
vision. I took down the address for the
mail-in offer and mailed my check off
the next day. The legend ofthe mighty
slingshot was born.

While waiting for my Aqua-Sling

 

The first real test of the Aqua-
Sling’s power came at the annual
Patrolman’s Benevolent Association
picnic. My best friend John’s father,
a detective, had been getting us tickets
for this event every year for about as
long as I can remember. The extrava-
ganza included all-you-can-eat
burgers, hot dogs, corn on the cob, and
lots of other foods. It also included

water bal- all-you-
loon sling- can-drink
shot to ar- beer,much
rive, the to Spos’
w h e e l s delight. As
were still amatterof
turning: fact,lbe-
What else lieve that
could I the unlim-
launch at ited beer
unsuspect- contrib-
ing passers— uted some-
by? Golf what tothe
b a 1 l s ? activities
Small ro- that took
dents? My place that
two-year- Partying with Van Halen at Central Command am-,mo0n_

old cousin?

The possibilities were endless. By the
time the thing actually arrived at my
house, I already had several ideas,
many ofwhich had the potential to get
me arrested.

Unfortunately, the first test of the
mighty slingshot had to be aborted.
Spos and several friends had planned
to bombard an ex—girlfriend’s house
with several balloons filled with grape
Nehi, but we were chased away by a
neighborhood dog.

Things
started off pretty tame. My friends
and I shot a couple of water balloons
at some girls, testing our range and
accuracy. This soon evolved to shoot-
ing balloons filled with beer, which in
turn evolved into firing pieces of food.
Some of the picnickers seemed sur-
prised to see entire hamburgers ﬂying
past them at sixty miles an hour.

Our fun came to an end after an
attempt to hit the hamburger stand
with an ear of corn. The corn, not

exactly aerodynamically suited for ﬂy-
ing at high speed, went slightly awry,
whizzing past an elderly gentleman at
approximately the speed of sound. I
could have sworn the poor guy almost
had a coronary right there in the middle
of the picnic.

No doubt this was one of the coolest
things Spos did all summer, that is, if
you don’t count the time I got drunk at
a bar in the Hamptons and entered a _
boxer short contest. Needless to say,
Spos lost. The mighty slingshot made a
few more appearances during the sum-
mer, but had to be forcibly “retired”
after a launched cantaloupe came aw-
fully close to destroying the expensive-
looking bay window at the home of my
junior prom date. (The prom sucked— I
could have had more fun at a conven-
tion of economics professors.)

Without the mighty slingshot, the
summer probably wouldn’t have been
as interesting as it turned out to be. I
don’t think I did anything else nearly as
interesting as firing large pieces of fruit
at the homes of ex-girlfriends. Of
course, Spos had a few parties at his
Central Command in beautiful subur-
ban Long Island (see photo), but the
satisfaction of hearing a watermelon
crash against the house of a sworn en-
emy cannot be equaled.

By the way, I hope this doesn’tspawn
any ideas amongst the fraternity males
out there. Lexington Police already
have their hands full keeping y’all from
passing out in the middle of the street.
The last thing they need is a bunch of
complaints about strange ﬂying fruit.

Placement

The Senior Placement Meeting
will take place on Wednesday,
September 15, at 4 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. Senior packets will be dis-
tributed. A make-up meeting for
athletes and others who cannot at-
tend the 4 p.m. meeting will be
held the same day at 7 pm. in
Room 114 of the University Cen-
ter.

Law School

A meeting for those planning
on attending law school will be
held on Thursday, September 16,
at 7 p.m. in Commerce School
Room 221. Contact pre-law ad-
viser Lewis-John for more infor-
mation.

 

General Notes are compiled by Richard Weaver.

PAGE 3

Interviews

An interviewing workshop
will be held on Tuesday, Septem-
ber 21, at 4 p.m. in Room 109 of
the University Center. This work-
shop is required for all seniors
planning on having a videotaped
practice interview.

Phi

The Phi welcomes letters to
the editor and My Views. Sub-
missions are due at Tuesday noon
and will be printed in the order
received. All submissions will be
printed. Mail letters to P.O. Box
899 or drop off in the envelope
outside Room 209 in the Univer-
sity Center.

Clinton's college plan not the right path

. MY VIEW

Cecilia Kirk

President Clinton recently unveiled his national
service plan to provide federal funds for college
trjtion in exchange for a student’s service. Essen-
tially, Clinton proposes that the government pay for
two years of tuition for each year a person works in
a sanctioned social-,Service type program. The stu-
dent may perform his service before, during, or after .
his college enrollment, or even take the grant directly
and pay it back as a portion of his income. To many
st§dents, that sounds like quite a deal. '

The plan promises much, but it lacks many details
and must be thoroughly considered.

In his address, Clinton spoke of hundreds of
thousands of students participating in the program.
According to the Clinton administration, the national
service program will begin with 1,000 students and
w' I increase to 100,000 students by 1997. Clinton
compares the plan with the Peace Corps, although at
its height, the Peace Corps involved only 16,000
young people. The projected cost of the program is
$9.5 billion for the next five years.

For good reason, Clinton stated that the program
should not become bureaucratic. However, by its
nature, a national organization demands administra-
tiﬂn; in fact, an office of national service, directed by
Eli Segal, has already been established. The office of
national service must grant, process, and follow up
on its awards; it will screen programs, certify that
they meet standards, and provide capital to found
new service corps. It must decide which groups to
sanction, decide which students to accept, pay col-
leges the tuition funds, and keep records of those
transactions, follow up on those students who elect to
pay their grants back as a portion of their incomes and
maintain a payment program with them, and provide
salaries to its employees, among those administra-
tion functions. Given the centralized nature of the

institution, it is impossible to prevent the bureaucra-
tization.

In his campaign manifesto, Clinton proposed to
“scrap the existing student loan program and establish
a National Service Trust Fund to guarantee every
American who wants a college education the means to
obtain one.” Following that promise, the Clinton
administration has suggested these grants could re-
place Pell Grants, which are awarded to needy stu-
dents. Pell Grants are considered “high vris,k”because
many of the recipients fail to pay back their loans.
Replacing the Pell systqn wiﬁrthe national service
system does not guarantee that needy“stu*dent‘s‘<.,will=
receive federal loans; it is still i '
“high risk,” however, because

front dangerous situations. Is police work really prac-
tical for one-year service students? Teachers must
have knowledge and experience. Many undergradu-
ates complain about being taught by graduate stu-
dents without teaching abilities. Can college students
be expected to undertake the same educational duties
as professional teachers? If they can, why shouldn’t
they be employed as are other teachers?

Financial considerations aside, national service is
troubling in the way it approaches community.
By discussing “community service”, the president

.». ‘ V tful,l~.y'-aclqpmple, I  lack of comgnunit 
ixgnhericbnslhéed t3 re’ scover an aﬁthenticﬂsgense gf
community as respon-
sible citizens who unite

service students could decide
what percentage of their incomes
to pay back and there is no surety
that they will do so. Impor-
tantly, of the 5 million students
who have college loans only 2%
of them could participate in the
president’s plan. The percent-
age of students benefiting fi-
nancially from the new plan is
even smaller as there are 14 mil-
lion college students currently
enrolled. In short the national
service program would apply to

a much smaller number of stu- Students°

The national service pro-
gram would apply to a much
smaller number of students at
a cost much higher than the
current grant program. This
will be paid for by the taxpay-
ers, who, by the time the
program is in effect in a few
years, will be today’s college

in changing the des-
perate and often alien-
ating conditions of
contemporary Ameri-
can life.

However, the
means to instill virtue
and respect for others
and then to resolve
these social ills is not
found in costly bureau-
cratic programs that
come from the top
down. Loyalty to com-
munity is a voluntary

dents at a cost much higher than

the current grant program. This

will be paid for by the taxpayers, who, by the time the
program is in effect in a few years, will be today’s
college students.

Another troubling aspect of the plan is that “ser-
vice” is vaguely defined. Naturally, most students
would want to do their “service” in the field of their
choice, making it simply a career move.

The two most frequently cited service jobs are
teachers and auxiliary policemen, to help with the
essential duties of education and crime prevention.
Policemen require extensive training and must con-

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

TALKBACK

response that comes

from within a person
and cannot be enforced by a program emanating from
Washington.

Instead, we must work through the intermediary
institutions like the family, churches, civic institu-
tions, and schools to restore an authenticsense of
community. The national service plan is about gov-
ernment employment, not community; and college
students will be required to pay the tab, both finan-
cially and in terms of community.

Cecilia Kirk represents the Young America ’s
Foundation.

hearing.

Student Body Notice

A member of the student body was accused of theft at

the end of the 1993 Spring Term and has chosen to
withdraw from the university in the face of a closed

Inmate seeks letters

To the editor:

I am a prisoner on death row at
Arizona State Prison and was won-
dering if you would do me a favor. I
have been here for almost sixteen years
and have no family or friends on the
outside that I can write. I was wonder-
ing if you would put a small ad in the
campus newspaper for me asking for
correspondence.

If you are not able to do that, then

‘maybe you have some type of mes-
sage or bulletin board you could put it

on. I realize you are not a pen pal club
or anything like that, but I would
really appreciate it if you would help
me.

Death row prisoner, Caucasian
male, age 46, desires correspon-
dence with either male or female
college students. Wants to form a
friendly relationship and more or
less exchange past or present expe-
riences and ideas. Will answer all
letters and exchange photos. Prison
rules require a complete name and
return address on the outside of
the envelope.

Thank you,

Jim leffers

Arizona State Prison
Box B-38604
Florence, AZ 85232

EC addresses cable

To the members of the Washing-
ton and Lee community: _
With the advent of the new phone
and cable services on the Washington
and Lee campus, several questions
have been raised regarding the impli-
cations for the Honor System. While

it is not customary for the Executive

Committee to respond to hypothetical
inquiries regarding potential honor
violations, the committee will, on oc-

casion, comment on the impact of ‘

significant changes in campus life on
the Honor System.

Students should be advised that the
misappropriation of cable services
(e.g. cable “splicing” or unauthorized
use of cable converters) or phone ser-
vices (e.g. through use of another’s
access code) could potentially amount
a breach of the Honor System. Stu-

dents are therefore cautioned that such
practices should be discontinued and
avoided in the future.

By this letter, the Executive Com-
mittee merely seeks to have students
consider the consequences of the de-
scribed actions in light of the man-
date of the Honor System. The com-
mittee maintains its policy of not
developing an inclusive or exclusive
code of honorable conduct.

Questions regarding this or any
other matter concerning the Honor
System may be addressed to any
member of the Executive Commit-
tee.

Thank you.

Robert K. Tompkins
James E. Rambeau, Jr.
Kevin Webb

As a freshman, what has been your most
memorable experience so far?

I my Gorman, ’97, San Anto-
io, Tex. —“That guy that ran
layfair made me feel really

‘ ecial.” strange.”

Doug “Troll” Brown, ’97,
Bedford, Va. —-— “That guy that
was doing Playfair was really

MG

Nichole Bryant, ’97,

Columbia, SC., and Amy Bohutinsky,
’97, Kansas City, Mo. — “We really enjoyed that cool Honor
System film.”

‘ t

Gambrill Corckran, ’97, Ba]-
timore, Md. — “I went up and

started talking to these two
people I thought I knew and
then realized I had no idea who
I was talking to.”

Jon Adelman, ’97, Geneva, 
Switzerland. —— “Finding out I v
have an 8 a.m. class five days a lg
week.” 3!

it

    
   

. ' PAGE 4

I

I
I I

 
 

FEATURES

By DAVID WILMINGTON
Phi Features Editor

Despite recent focus on their new
building, the only house the Outing
Club is really concerned with rises
hundreds of feet above Rockbridge
County.

Approximately twenty freshmen
were introduced to the traditional House
Mountain hike on Tuesday. The hike
was included in this years’ freshman
orientation schedule with the provi-
sion that it stop at the Saddle instead of
continuing to the top as usual.

Faculty advisor Kirk Follo explained
that neither he nor Dean of Freshmen
and Residence Life Dennis Manning
felt comfortable with the idea of fifty

Left: Members of the Class
of ‘97 take a breather as
Prof. Kirk Follo points out
the trail to the Cliffs of Big
House Mountain. Right:
Outing Club House Man-
ager Alex Ruskell and
Kerry Egan prepare first
aid kits before leading the
first hike of Fall term.

PRINCIPLES 0/i SOUND RIi'l‘IRli.\lliN'l‘

i'\'\'1«;s'riN(;

  

IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS
EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF
THROUGH RETIREMENT.

hink about supporting yourself for
twenty~five, thirty years or longer
in retirement. It might be the greatest
ﬁnancial test you'll ever face. Fortunately,
you have one valuable asset in your
favor. Time.

Time to take advantage of tax—cleferral.
Time for your money to grow.

But starting early is key. Consider this:
ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at
age thirty, you can accumulate $172,1o9*
by the time you reach age sixty-five.
Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside
$219 a month to reach the same goal.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

’ 9 I 993 Tauierr Iruumnce and Annuity A.r.rac1alion/ Cal/cg: Retirement Equilier Fund.

\

At TIAA-CREE we not only under-
stand the value of starting early, we
can help make it possible—with flexible
retirement and tax-deferred annuity
plans, a diverse portfolio of investment
choices, and a record ofpersonal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education
and research are already enrolled in
America’s largest retirement system.
Find out how easy it is to join them. Call
today and learn how simple it is to put
yourself through retirement when you
have time and TIAA-CREF on your side.

Start planning your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.

/

I

*,{,r_.-,,,,,,',,,, ,1” [n],-r(_r/ mm M XIII)"/o rmiilzr} In Tlxl/i Rvlirrrumt/I/1/1111'/1).»: T/1/ﬁr mt: /.ru.m7.m/1/_y In .r/Jaw llu'_mIu'rriIIIr) (ti/2'1‘! 4!/‘H’/'lﬂI’ll/N)/_'1.4l< LW‘”' "’ /”.'4/5"‘ ""1"-V “"”‘U
‘ }, N, 1), I H. ,.,,._V ,),'/_f(rm/ mm/l.r. (‘REF I't’I‘Il_i/lt‘lI[t‘.|'41I‘( 1)Lr/rf/m[g(I/r‘y TI/‘iii-(REF[Il()U'l()ll1I[1III() IlimlulwmilSzrwmn

 

or so hikers milling around the edge of
the Cliffs.

The hike is somewhat symbolic in
that the Outing Club is partly respon-
sible for the preservation of the moun-
tain. Developers were bidding for the
land during the first year the club be-

‘ came official, Follo said. The students

organized several fund raisers to help
Virginia conservation groups buy the
land and ensure its undeveloped condi-
tion.

Now the hike up Big House Moun-
tain is one of the “must-do-before-you-
graduate” activities at W&L. ,

The Outing Club does not subscribe
to a traditional organizational hierar-
chy. Since the beginning of the club,
there has been a core group of organiz-
ers instead of an elected or appointed

The Fling-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

government. This year, there are only
two titled positions. Alex Ruskell serves
as House Manager and general orga-
nizer and Justin Youngblood is the
Equipment Manager.

Formal activities won’t gear up un-
til the second week of classes to give
everyone time to get settled. Although
dates have not been set, Outing Club
plans include hikes to Apple Orchard
Falls, cross-country skiing trips, rock
climbing, and a white-water rafting
trip to West Virginia.

Although these big trips are the most
well known of the club’s activities,
they are not necessarily the focus. The
club is primarily a resource to allow
students to set up their own excursions.
As in past years, any student can check
out equipment to use for purposes such

 Hikers Hit House Mountain   .

 Outing Club hopes for suggestions to plan ’93-’94 activities

as camping or canoeing, but this year a
returnable deposit will be required.

Because both Ruskell ahd
Youngblood live in the new Outing
Club house, check-out hours for equip-
ment will be much more ﬂexible than
in past years.

In addition to the scheduled trips
and free equipment, various classes
have been offered in the past. Ruskell
is looking for anyone who has experi-
ence with rock climbing or kayaking
that would be interested in instructing
others.

Outing Club activities take place
during all three semesters, even the
usually cold Virginia winter. 0

“We get our best turn out in the fall
and spring,” Follo said. “In winter
people wimp out.”

Photos by David Wilmington, The Ring-tum Phi

. eshman’s college
And that, sometimes, fresh ,

to ignore their classes
sure they don’t, we’r..

2135500 scholarshi
member with the

    
    
 
    
     

have work to d

use on campus.
raternity should be an

  

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

Garth saddles

0
O O

Mus lc Rev zew

0
By David Wilmington

Phi Features Editor

‘D

For the past few years, the fence that
divides Top-40 pop and country music
has been slowly dismantled.

One of the primary reasons for the
breakdown can be directly traced to the
general popularity and huge record sales
of Garth Brooks. His approach to break-
ing down the already decaying fence
has been to throw a saddle on it and ride
the middle until you can’t decide on
which side he belongs. Brooks’ latest
album, In Pieces, continues his fence
rail ride by blending numerous ele-
. ments and sounds into a package labled

‘Country’.

The songs on the album that could
be called ‘Country’ without causing
too many arguments represent the tried
and true elements of country music.

“American Honky-Tonk Bar Asso-

Q ciation” has a down-home dance hall
feel and lyrics that celebrate an infor-
mal coalition of mistreated, blue-col-
lar, beer drinking, gun owning patriots:
a kind of ‘United We Swagger’ organi-
zation.

“Ain’t Going Down (Til The Sun

. Comes Up)” represents what has be-
come a modern Country custom: a song
for would—be teenage rebels everywhere
to rally behind. The lyrics, which are
spoken in a fast, primarily three note
melody, describe the hot-to-trot hero-
ine and her bad boy hero escaping from

. her parents to express their undying
love in a pickup truck. Events come to
a head in a Chuck Berry styled
choronology: “Ten ’til twelve is wine
and dancing, Midnight starts the hard
romancing, One o’ clock that truck is
rocking, Two is comin’ still no stop-
ping.” You get the picture. It’s not
poetry, but it’s a fun song and it men-
tions George Strait.

“Callin’ Baton Rouge” is a road
song in the traditional sense. Guest
artist Bela Fleck is featured on banjo in
a bluegrass—inﬂuenced backup chorus.

Country fans will be pleased to rec-

’ ognize Trisha Yearwood as the other
guest artist on the album. Yearwood
joins Brooks to sing backup harmony

O

on three selections.

The songs from the other side of the
fence might elicit a few head scratches
from some C&W listeners.

Right around the middle of the al— .

bum, Brooks pulls two songs from an
as yet unseen Lyle Lovett inﬂuence.
“One Night A Day” and “Kickin’ and
Screamin’ ” tap into the bluesy con-
temporary sound that Lovett and
Bonnie Raitt have made popular.

In direct opposition to the shock-
testing love scene described in “Ain’t
Going Down”, “The Red Strokes” uses
the metaphor of colors in a painting to
symbolize aspects of a relationship.
This song is very much like the ballads
heard on ‘Adult Contemporary’ sta-
tions with names like ‘K-Lite’.

SUPE

DRUG STORES

FEATURES

One non-traditional C&W song that
will not sound unfamiliar is “The Night
Will Only Know.” The song describes
another automobile-bound love tryst,
but this time, a murder outside the
steamy car window thrusts the lecher-
ous pair into a moral quandary. Listen-
ers might sense some relation to “The
Thunder Rolls” in the visually descrip-
tive scenes of violence and injustice.
The guitar sound on this track is an
especially obvious example of what
once would have been shunned by the
country establishment.

After listening to the album from
start to finish, it is obvious that Brooks
will have at least three very big hits
from this album.

However, some C&W fans may be

Open 7. Davs.

Week,.;i

" 7;-"I-_-L-_r__..—
nalllﬁj

   

Ruudlour Iilntvvnatullum an lttlllltulv mi»; avaml uuulvn live mnu
um Io rulers $00

We ment the light ml aniilims

ul in in Mu
who Rclll

Lexington

Imlilcm yuu n umwr 4 QllOlIIMEb(H!1 M-en mm! ur a llncllcm Mum inhu: Iv uunhcu hr -unnm-i rum al In mmliscd uno: Season: mrm axcliord
Vnornuy not bcwlhu onai ll not lie uvuoluis uznemy Ont; one undo: uiupon in remains but rum lawn aiuoon(s) avatar: in sum

 

’ US Hwy.11, Rt. 7 Phone: 463-7126

fence again

PAGE 5

college

ple," e.g. (2 wds.)
Evaluate
Extremely small

direction
disappointed by the new level to which

. _ Pacino classic (2 wds.) by Picasso

Brooks takes his mrddle—of-the—fence or land measure 33 "she's —..."
approach. As exemplified by Billy ”9et5G:yP<(l:<"*:FxlX>et DOWN 34 égrtrgweﬂashdance )
Ray Cyiusiacoumrlf Smg_er who sieps plane) 1 Those who are duped 35 Visible trace

too far into pop territory is in serious 26 Capri , e.g. 2 "Do unto -—.. ." 36 Think

danger of being ostracized by the Core 27 Belonging to Mayor 3 Fourth estate 37 woman's under-

- Koch 4 Goals garment
fundamemahsts of the  _SCe_ne' 28 Irritate or 5 Hell-known record 38 Corrrnit ——-kiri
Even thoughcountry music isenjoying embitter label 40 — burner
a large amount of popularity with the 30  f°" 3 b°’‘l"9 ‘; ”l‘§l1l;:"‘c";’:S‘;:"9 42 L-I3)-lf°'”,_"f I ""
lmdel ‘WWW C‘°Wd> “"5 Older 00”’ 31 —- and the 8 Prefix meaning milk 44 Actress Gibbs
group can still break a performer by Belmonts 9 confused (2 wds.) 46 African antelope
labeling hinla fake_ ’, 3: gropegsionsme t 19 n;;; buskgiat 47 beg;-known TV band-

7 .. . . . ie upp e n nne e e er
If BT90“ a_b”“Y ‘9 “F the “gm (abbr.) 12 Like a sailboat 49 Pince-—

nerves \vith audiences nllive perfor- 38 Scottish historian 13 Cash register key (eyeglass type)
mances is any measure of his ability to 39 ::<1l1l:glll<1?:°léhe"n 14 E2 Wd-S-(as a who”) §$t3g§‘_§1lr£I.b''a—-"
, - . E ree - ll 1- n E Y‘
sense the eVer'swaymg pendulum of ville, Pa. 15 Auto racing son of 51 1965 film, "—

public sentiment, he’ll know when to 40 The vane.-abie __...
lean back toward the side of the fence
from where his saddle came.

collegiate crossword

© Edward Julius

41 "...not with -——— 19 Political disorder

ACROSS but a whimper." 20 — cit. (footnote
1 where one might 43 Return on invest- abbreviation)
study Andy Warhol's ment (abbr.) 21 Traveled on a

works (3 wds.) ’ 44 Pondered
12 Enrollment into 45 Belonging to Mr. 24 Glorify
Starr
14 "Calculus Made Sim- 47 Part of the classi-
fieds (2 wds.) 28 Nell-known govern-
16 48 Possible place to
‘ 17 study abroad (2 wds) 29 American league
— 18 Follows a recipe 52 Small school in Can-
ton, Ohio (2 wds.) 30 Fictional hypnotist
19 Belonging to Mr. 53 Orson Welles film 32 Style exemplified
22
23
24

Richard Petty

Flexible Flyer

25 Prospero's servant
in "The Tempest"

ment agency

team (abbr.)

Ryan's Express“

Mexican

Mondays

Every Week

Blackbean Quesadillas w/ Salsa & Sour Cream .
/Bgpetizer 5.95

 

inner 7.95
Shrimp Tostadas 7.95
Shrimp & Crab Enciladas w/ rice 8: beans _ 8.95
Chicken Burritos w/ rice & beans 7.95

8 a.m. Breakfast- Huevos Rancheros Omelettes
Dinner- Tuesday thru Saturday
Sunday Brunch
Mexican Menu served every Monday

 , Frog Pond 8: Patio

NOW OPEN
A 3, Mixed Drinks & Fine Wines

19 West Washin ; ton Street/Lexin ton/464-1900

F02 26 WAYS
to hei.p save me
f‘-‘AP-+H cau.
“9°°***88-938-i

V ( (W 
201-7292
2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista - (Behind Pizza Hut)

$l.50ANY SHOW

Pvowrshoudng

SON-IN-LAW
Rated PG-13
Shows Daily at 1, 5 & 9 p.m.

ROOKIE OF THE YEAR
Rated PG
Shows Daily at 3 & 7 p.m.

SPEXJAIJJKUES}K)VV(MVLY75(JEVTS
EX)bLID¥I445V]1ﬁDDPh4 F1lLdEDE()DﬂJY

“All You Can Eat”
BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

$3.00 OFPOPCORN $3.9

 

 

— “~—n..-r"‘1IIIrU

\;.__._.

off everyday!
Famous Catalog &
Brand Name Clothing

Shop our stores for unbelievable savings

on mens and womens fashions. Great
clothing from some of America's most
famous catalogue companies.
"' Lexington, Va. 24450

17 S. Main St.

463-9730
Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30

0%

O

 

 

Trustees name library
for James Leyburn

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee Board of Trustees voted in
May to name the university library for James G. Leyburn,
former dean and professor at W&L who died in April.

“The mark that James G. Leybum left upon Washing-
ton and Lee is enduring and can be seen today although
he retired 21 years ago,” said John D. Wilson, president
of the university. “His legacy lives on in our
commitmentto teaching and to the liberal arts.”

“His concepts of personal honor, integrity, and self-
discipline set a wonderful example for generations of
Washington and Lee students,” Wilson added.

Wilson said naming the library after Leybum would
recognize Leybum’s role in shaping the mission and
character of Washington and Lee.

Barbara Brown, university librarian, said the decision
to name the library for Leyburn was “inspired.”

“Naming the chief academic building on the campus
after a man who has meant so much to the university is
perfect and appropriate,” she said.

Among Leybum’s objectives when he came to Wash-
ington and Lee were the strengthening of the university ’s
academic standards and bringing the curriculum closer to

the liberal arts ideal. In what became known as the
Leybum Plan, he wrote that it was his goal that “everyone
by common consent [should] name us first on the list of
great teaching universities, just as everyone tends to
name Harvard first in any list of great research universi-
ties.”

He served as dean of the university until 1956, when
he stepped down to return to fulltime teaching in the
sociology department.

After retiring in 1972, Leybum returned to his family
home in West Virginia near the Maryland panhandle. He
remained there in retirement, continuing his scholarly
work and his voluminous correspondence, until his death
on April 28, 1993.

“This man was the best man there ever could be in a
teacher,” said William M. Gottwald, ’70, the member of
the board of trustees who proposed naming the library for
Leybum. “Dr. Leybum left an indeliable and positive
impression on every student in his classroom.”

Leybum received his B.A. and M.A. degrees in eco-
nomics at Duke University, an M.A. in economics and
social institutions from Princeton, and a Ph.D. in sociol-
ogy from Yale University. He came to Washington and
Lee in 1947 from Yale, where he had taught for 20 years.

 

Phone costs down

tance rates. Day, evening and night
rate times will also be similar to
AT&T. Weekend rate times will run
from Friday at 5 p.m.to Monday at 8
a.m. All students may apply for an
MCI calling card from University
Services which comes with the Wash-
ington and Lee logo embossed. Stu-
dents using these calling cards can
expect to see a savings of five to
eight percent over other long dis-
tance company calling cards.

“The calling cards are really ben-
eficial to students off campus be-
cause they provide a much cheaper
rate for the same service Centel would
provide,” Camper said.

it PHONES, from page 1

Additionally, long distance costs
and monthly services fees will be
lower for students. Because the
monthly service fee is built into the
cost of the room‘, the university was
able to charge less than Centel’s typi-
cal monthly service fee of $22. Stu-
dents living in single rooms are now
paying about $18 per month and stu-
dents in doubles each pay half that
amount as part of their room fee.

Students can expect to see cheaper
long distance rates with the new phone
system. Students will receive a 10

Pavilion opens

Iv WATSON, from page 1

cations and bad weather during
the construction of the building.

The Watson Pavilion and the
Reeves Center will be open from
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. weekdays, and
special arrangements can be made
for weekend visits.

“The staff is always happy to
take visitors,” Litzenburg said.
“The real message is that we’ve
just been gratified by the praise
that’s been heaped on the new
collections and the architecture
of the building from all quar-
ters.”

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20 1993

70

Wilson, Alton address seniors

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The class of ’94 celebrated the be-
ginning of its last year at W&L yester-
day.
President John Wilson officially
opened the 1993-94 academic year with
the annual Opening Convocation in
Lee Chapel. Wilson asked the class to
lead the student body by example, with
maturity. Seniors should help new stu-
dents by offering “light—handed guid-
ance.”

Wilson introduced Reginald Alton,
recently retired Bursar and Vice-Prin-
cipal of St. Edmund’s College, Oxford
University, as the special guest speaker.
Wilson said Alton was his teacher dur-
ing his years of graduate study at Ox-
ford University.

Alton thanked Wilson for his intro-
duction with some comments about
Wilson’s tenure at Oxford and W&L.

“An emporer found Rome in bricks
and left it marble,” Alton said. “John
Wilson found W&L in bricks and left it
many, many, many more bricks.”

In his address, Alton drew compari-
sons between Oxford and Washington
and Lee Universities’ evolution from
small, personality-driven schools to
respectable universities. He described
life in 1749, as he understood it, at both
Oxford and W&L.

Alton warned universities from
overemphasizing research and
deemphasizing undergraduate teach-
mg.

Alton quoted Aristotle in saying,
“Learning is one of the greatest plea-
sures in the world,” and he urged the
audience to extend “benevolence to
yourself and to others.”

The Opening Convocation has been
held in honor of the senior class since
1987. Dean of Students David Howison
said that although convocation seems
like an old tradition, Wilson founded
the current proceedings.

Photo By Richard Weaver, The Ring-tum Phi

Reginald Alton, retired Bursar and Vice-Principal of St.Edmund’s
College at Oxford University speaks at yesterdays convocation.
Alton taught President John D. Wilson while Wilson attended

Oxford for his graduate studies.

  
    

percent discount on AT&T long dis- 0
. . MOONLIGHT MADNESS HOUR
10th Anniversary Celebration 1 ‘I: ‘ I:

.   ._, , _ S t. 10, 1993 10- 5:30

  .  ,.   .. g 3.. iii ..  e]l:ive Music A1] Day  .  Mo\;ie &zEf\//(irfeo (fame '

- ' \‘-~- Refreshments Gifts Sales ' "1 1¢ 1 2 pnce or t 9
WELC0ME...,BAC;K».:SIFUDQNTS ROCKBRIDGE ’ ’ Invzv .E;‘§f.§Ei’:‘.:

Let "3 help You get Orgamzed “nth Diana Madsen Schofield

Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

'3"

PHONE: 463 - 1712 -

_ FAX It: 463 - 6918
is w. NELSON sr. - LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA - ACROSS mom THE rosr OFFICE

 

205 North Main Street
Phone 463-5455

Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

4 East Washin
Lexington, VA 4450 ,
(703) 464-6464

10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

   
 
  

W&L Art “*1 “ F°°“°r
Hickory _ « ’  .’ thought
Signatures: Smoked “Would You 8°
Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee BBQ & to a Steakhouse
M. Miley ' John Letcher _ for fish?»
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr. Rlbs
Sam Houston A. P. Hill
W&L Copperplate, hand-colored Rt. 60 (Beside Pizza Hut) Hog-Head 464-4323
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art

it

<IK

ii

on Street *

+1

«it

Open Monday - Saturday :
Sunday 11a.m. - 3 p.m. .k

A ‘Son

Shenandoah Bluegrass
Bluegrass at its best
Parties, Receptions, Sliows
Foot-stomping traditional Bluegrass
East Coast Champions
Bo0kings- 463-5749 or 463-6683

¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

¢*******************‘k*'ki5+
11>

2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2?

The College Town Shop

Ruff Hewn
Timberland

Duckheads- Shorts
& Long Pants

111 W. Nelson St.

Embassy. Boxers

B. D. Ba
Gitman

gies
hirts
Woolrich Outerwear

Your Home Away From Home!

Visa

Mastercard

Since 1926
Amex

House Charges

Sun. - Thurs. 10 a.m. - 10 p.m. Fri. - Sat. 10 a.m.-11p.m.
Lexington - Buena Vista Sho ping Center L
Lexington, VA 24450 (703 463-9654 »

”We Bring the Movies to You!”

 

Foe 7.6 v~lAYs
io hetp sixve rue
eAi2h-\ cnu.
I-eoo-was-9387.

ll.

Earth Share \«

, . Mic some. or
. Publication

6 V

  

_ The
Point of View

Restaurant

Next to Days Inn, Rt. 60 Wst
463-7797

Casual Dining
Elegant Setting
° Finest Steaks

° Fresh Seafood
0 Pork Ribs

- Banquet Facilities

 

LEXIIGTOI

SHOP
:s::.::i.*:::

- v
p...'.%'£“5.i:.“.‘,t nltoblo
- Jamport Bogs & Packs

Hours Mon- Frt9-5Sat9- Noon

 

Lexington’s Homemade

Ice Cream Shop ':
I

Buy one, get one F REE :

(Free item must be of equal or lesser value) I
Excluding Ice Cream Cakes and Pies

106 W. Washington St.
Lexington, VA 24450 I
463-6055 I

¢****+n+****a+*,,

LG

    

*************************
5+2;2+¥4u+a+>+¥.2+au+442+4§au+4+42+2+>g>+

¥¥44444444¥¥

 

Nourish yourself ’‘
for lunch
Monday - Friday
11:30 to 3:30
0

Carry Out
Available

110 W. Washington St.

 

463-2800 ..

  

SPORTS

   
   

. File photos
Clockwise from top: the Washington and Lee water polo team, junior Jennifer Garrigus and senior Aspen
Yawars show their form, hoping to help W&L make headlines in ’93.

3

Stonewall Square Shopping Center
Lexington, VA

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

While you were away....

Washington and Lee students may not be sur-
prised to see sophomore Josephine Schaeffer in
the headlines yet again, even if these particular
acclamations are a long time coming.

But this headline has something new and dif-
ferent; Schaeffer has made an indelible mark on
history not only by becoming the ﬁrst W&L woman
to become a two-sport All-American, but also
achieving this in her freshman year.

At Baldwin-Wallace College in Berea, Ohio,
May 26, 1993, Schaeffer ran the 10,000-meter run
for the third time in her life and placed second
nationally for Division III of the National Colle-
giate Athletic Association.

Schaeffer’s time of 36:31.82 was an amazing
improvement over her previous mark of 37.34,
and was more than sufficient to attain her second
All—American title, after last fall‘s stellar cross
country season.

Her solitary performance gave W&L a 31st
place of 63 participating teams. As they say, the
third time’s the charm.

“She’s great,” women’s cross country coach
Jim Phemister said simply.

Schaeffer is running even better this year, ac-
cording to her coach, and she and the rest of the
cross country team will take the stage at their first
meet tomorrow at the Lebanon Valley Invita-
tional.

The Generals are coming off an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Championship season (even
though Schaeffer took a wrong turn during the race
and failed to achieve a title she was expected to
win). Washington and Lee placed a best-ever third
in the regional championship, even though the
team ran what Phemister tagged its worst race of
the season.

With the strong back-up of juniors Kim Her-
ring and Sue Deutsch and sophomore Amy Mears,
the Generals can only improve this year.

On the men’s side, a young team hopes to prove
that last year’s runner-up ﬁnish at the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Championships was not a
ﬂuke.

The Generals mourn the loss of three-time All-
Region runner Bo Hannah. Junior Matthew Brock
and sophomore Brad Paye hope to help fill that
ugly gap. Paye, who missed much of last year with
mononucleosis, was the General’s number two
runner at the beginning of the ’92 season.

Schaeffer astounds campus
with second All-American title

ﬁle photo
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer has
two big reasons to be smiling.

Joining the women at the Lebanon Valley Invi-
tational, the men’s cross country squad will debut
freshman talents Sandy Hooper and Alvin Townley.

Both the men’s and women‘s squads will face a
field of 32 teams, both Division II and III, with
almost 200 runners Sept. 11.

Expect big things from this season’s cross coun-
try teams-coach Phemister does.

“If I had to predict an outcome for Saturday’s
race, I ’d predict Josephine winning,” said
Phemister.

For history in the making, watch the W&L
women‘s cross country team.

/ Join us for our 9 \
Sunset Special , 3
Tuesday - Saturday 5:30-6:30 p.m.
$10.00 per person

Includessalad,homernaderolls&muﬁn,
entreeand

Willson - WaIker&H0use

Q0 N. Main St.. Lexington Reservations Recommended 463-3020 )

IIIIIIIEIISI

THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
HATS AND OTHER W&L SPORTWEAR
LEX|N6TDN'S ONLY SOIIRIIE FDR TEVAS MID MERRILL BOOTS

15 W. WASHINGTON 81‘. WE DO MAIL ORDER!
LEXINGTON 703 464-3000

463-9800

Check our 99¢ Selections each Month.
September Special - DRAMA

(New Releases excluded)

 Restaurant

Free Video Rental Membership a, mg; 3; mg; gm

T

Buy any $10 worth of cards and/or comic books, Get a
free Nintendo or Movie Rental of your choice.

   BREAKFAST
  BUFFET

FRIDAY & SATURDAY NIGHTS
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
Open 24 Hours

Route 11 North 463-3478

$0 T

Now carrying wider variety of shirts including sports,
comic book characters, rock, and novelty.

Welcome W&L Freshmen
}7l[71zn—Dennzs

102 West Washington St.

0 Duckhead Pants and Shorts
0 Dirty Bucks and Bass Weejuns 0 Blue Blazers
O Ray-Ban Sunglasses 0 Red Wing Boots

0 W&L Belts, Ties, Keychains

' O Embassy Boxers

Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 10 a.m.-11 p.m.

Sun Noon-10 p.m. Since 1963

Student Charges

(703) 463-5383

Visa Mastercard

  

Last Week:

Washington and Lee athletes
wrapped up two-a-day practices in
preparation for fall ’93 competition.

PAGE 8

  s

Elbe ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

This Week:

FB:
CC:
VB:
WP: W&L Fall Classic 09/ 1 1-12

@ Emory & Henry 09/11
@ Lebanon Valley 09/ 11
@ Chris. Newport 09/ 11

 

SEPTEMBER 10, 1993

Sports issu
V examined

 

  
    
  
    
  

you. Alcoholjiv
abused, destroysth

As an athletei’ nd
avid spectatort   
years, the fact at an
athletes abuse fth ' :.
drugs has always horrifi _

mawhenlcamet Emory, Virginia.

W&L football ics f ’94 seaso

Photo by Sarah Gilbert of The Ring—tum I’/zi

Washington and Lee football players practice above Wilson Field. The Generals begin their season Sept. 11, squaring off against the Wasps of Emery and Henry in

 

T

L

     
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
     

i use of the drug».
. which mandates that
' letes abstain from alcohol‘ -
for 48 hours before ’a co
test can only point tog.
serious problem. ' . .
Researchers C an '
coaches are constant,

’ searching for new Ways to
“ maximize athletes.’ poten-

 

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Washington and Lee gaineda
new face in the athletic depart-
ment this summer when Terri
Dadio, formerly of Trenton State
(N.J.) College, brought her many
talents to the women’s athletic
program.

Dadio will coach volleyball
and women’s basketball at W&L.
She acted as an assistant basket-
ball coach at Trenton State, while
also serving as assistant varsity
and head junior varsity volley-
ball coach at her alma mater, Free-
dom High School.

Her playing experience at
Lafayette College included two
years as captain of the basketball
team, selection as a member of
the first-team All-Patriot League
in 1992 and the All-East Coast
Conference rookie team in 1989.

sive regimens of physical-
discipline. At 

Squire athletes to_ adhere? if
. curfews and strict diet, At

It is not only that; J
letes at W&L do was
the discipline ordesirléj . .-
make sacrifices in order to ~
be the best they can beglt " '

A a larger problemfth , V

. mosphere ofis.“ V
j centered on theéuse of al-
cohol (and cigarett_es’ are

' often the natural comp '0
ion to beer) that it isd

  

 

 

’ culttostaydmg-free,i,.,.i, She was third all-time leading

0111 isolating 0n€$§1ffY scorer at Lafayette.
the Social community Dadio’svolleyball experience
Alcoholandtobafcco is confined to high school, but
cornpletely_oppose"dtoe, she was stellar as a four-year
' ' Ch starter and a two-time all-league

selection at Freedom.

“Washington and Lee is com-
mitted to having a quality athletic
program,” athletic director Mike
Walsh told Sports Information.
“With the appointment of Terri
Dadio as the coach of women’s
basketball and volleyball we’ve
taken a giant step towards fulfill-
ing that commitment.”

With a basketball team newly
elevated to varsity status and a
young volleyball team, Dadiowill

 
    
   
  
   
 
 
 

 seen Washingtoniand
athletes 'smok_ef* ‘daily A L
. season and then truggle
through routineksp
practice, I haveiseen ll“. -
letes drunk atfrateirn ' ’
hours before they are 'e
pected to compm.
The idea that an

 

Volleyball, basketball star
takes the helm for Women

have her hands full. “We feel she
has the background and enthusi-
asm to meet the challenge,” Walsh
concluded.

 

Valley ‘True ‘Value

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

TEFIRI DADIO

Water polo hosts tourney

Washington and Lee water polo, the reigning
Eastern champs, opens its season tomorrow
with the annual W&L Fall Classic. The field
includes rivals Richmond and Johns Hopkins as
well as Villanova and Queens.

As last year’s team finished with five straight
wins, the Generals will be leaning heavily on
experienced team members such as senior Greg
Golub, a 1992 first-team All-American with 73
goals.

Also returning for W&L will be senior Jacob
Berman and juniors Derek DeVries and Reuben
Munger, who hope to lead the Generals to a
finish to rival last year’s 16-10 record.

Men’s soccer to Kentucky

Though five starters have graduated from a
team which was 8-8 in 1992, Washington and
Lee men’s soccer hopes to improve on the record
with a core of tri-captains Alan Christensen,
John Robinson and Dan Rhodes.

The Generals head to Kentucky this weekend
for matches versus Centre and Transylvania.

Women’s soccer experienced

In contrast with the men’s team, Washington
and Lee women’s soccer team returns most of its
top performers.

Only two starters graduated from the 1992
squad which won the regular season Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference title. The Generals’
defense, which allowed less than two goals per
game last year, returns seniors Aspen Yawars
and Allison Lewis.

Leading the returnees for the offense are
seniors Angie Carrington and Corinda Hankins
and junior Anne Spruill.

The Lady Generals open their season tomor-
row with a road trip to Atlanta. They play Agnes
Scott College Sept. 11 and Emory Sept. 12.

Football faces top-
ranked opponent

Washington and Lee gridders return from a
5-4 season Sept. 11 to face Emory and Henry,
ranked 10th in Sports lllustrated’s pre-season

 

J ockShorts 5

Division III rankings.

The Wasps of E&H opened their season
with a 15-8 victory over Cumberland last week,
and, as defending Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference champions, should be the Generals’
toughest competition this season.

Leading W&L as quarterback this year will
be sophomore Matt Reedy, replacing junior
Geren Steiner, who opted not to play this year
after becoming the eighth-all-time leading
passer in only two years.

Senior running back and tri-captain Tom
Mason will be missing tomorrow after breaking
a bone in his left hand during scrimmage last
weekend. Mason rushed for 518 yards in five
weeks as tailback last year, and coaches are
breathlessly awaiting the diagnosis of a special-
ist Mason will see this week.

Washington and Lee defense is headed by
junior noseguard Jason Chartrand, whose ca-
reer includes 116 tackles. Joining Chartrand on
the line are juniors outside linebacker Stephen
Cox, cornerback Jon Wagner and safety Marc
Newman.

Leadingthe offensive line, senior tri-captain
John Surface will join forces with senior center
Derek Boggs and sophomore tackle Robert
Turner to protect Reedy and the other backs.

Impressive newcomers include tailback J .P.
Josephson, quarterbacks Brooks Fischer and
Tommy Rueger and punter Jonathan Gardner.

All told, the Generals are looking strong and
optimistic for the 1993 season. After a bye next
week, W&L returns to Wilson Field Sept. 25 to
face Centre.

Volleyball debuts coach

Co-captains senior Tara Burns and junior
Jennifer Garrigus hope to lead this year’s Wash-
ington and Lee volleyball team to a winning
season after barely missing the .500 mark with
a 13-14 record last year.

The Generals head to Christopher Newport
College this weekend for a tri-match against
their host and Marymount.

Sept. 11 will mark the debut of Terri Dadio
as head coach of volleyball for W&L. [See
related story, this page.]

Chrissie Hart will be missing from action
this season following knee surgery, widening
the gap left by top hitter Catherine Hess.

 

 

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

 Welcome
Back
Students.’

We serve Pizza to a
Full Italian Dinner!

24 North Main Street
Lexington, VA

CUISINE 464-5800

 

  
   

Carryout Available

THE
SANDWICH SHOP

11 S. Jefferson St.

 

Yarner &’P_o‘le_ ,

Spec1al_izi_ng=in Unfurnished

.. Futnlture &S_h.Stdes

‘ 19 S. Randolph St. _ ~_
Lexm _on,VA 3.463-2742

’ .eW;Lo“cat_10n! A

 
   
  

' . ..-A.-:-255:,

 

A Full Service Salon

-Cuts

-Color

-Perms

—Highlighting (Foiling)
-Manicures

-Pedicures

—Sculpured Nails

Welcome Freshmen & Upperclassmen
to Marlene’s Hairstylists & Tannery

Marlene, Kelly, Bobbi,
Barbara, Cindy, and Kim
invite you to stop in, no

appointment necessary

A smalltown salon with
an uptown attitude

 

10%oﬂ‘anyregular
prioedshoeswith
thisad.
ConvelSe.Adidas

First Team Sports

115WNekn§.

 

 

