 

d' D

WASHlNG‘T0

  

LExstfﬁe6'psu.,i A, ‘M3

 
 

 

Folll Fashion Review ,

Bosios ore beautiful for
W&L’s classic look

  

Water Polo drowns out
the competition, defends
eastern title

  

he '4;’tt1tg-tttm lﬂhi

VOLUME 93, NO. 11

Survey reveals

By EMILY BAKER
I Phi STAFF WRITER

One out of four men of last
year’s freshman class believes
that many men secretly desire to
rape a woman. 1

One out of four felt that many

I women cause their own rape by

th way they act and the clothes
they wear. The results of the
1993 sexual attitudes survey re-
vealed these and other attitudes
of both men and women of the
freshman class.

The sexual attitudes survey is

j a ggquestion survey developed

by e Virginia State Task Force
on campus sexual assault. Vir-
ginia studied campus sexual as-
sault by surveying 5000 college
students across the state. lnaddi—
tion to personal questions, the

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

pertaining to sexual attitudes. W
& L freshmen, in the spring of
1992, were asked the same 25
questions.

“As we evaluated these 25
items the first year, we noticed
that there were 10 questions
where Washington and Lee stu-
dents had some percentages in
their responses that needed to be
addressed in educational pro-
grams,” said Associate Dean of
Students Anne Schroer-Lamont.

When the State Task Force
conducted the survey, they sur-
veyed not only freshman, but also
sophomores, juniors, seniors, and
graduate students.

“Becauseweare studyingonly
the freshman class, we’re deal-
ing with a lower level of maturity
with our freshmen more than we
studied in the statewide survey,”
said Dean Schroer-Lamont.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 12, 1993

sexual attitudes

In 1993, 15.9 percent ofW &
Lfreshman men said they agreed
or strongly agreed that most men
accused of rape are really inno-
cent. This was slightly down
from last year’s freshman male
response of18.1 percent, but still
higher than the overall state _male
response of 5 percent. Zero per-
cent of freshman women agreed
with this statement.

At 35.5 percent, more than a
third of W & Lfreshman men felt .
that if a man does not have sex
with a woman who wants to, his
masculinity may be questioned.
This, too is above the Task
Force’s 30 percent of men who
agreed with the statement. 13.2
percent of W & L women agreed
with the statement. .

I-,>See SURVEY, page 3

50% ,
45% _:

   
 

44.8% '

  

I Men -

Women

State 1991

   

W&L 1992

W&L 1993

Percent of students agreeing with the statement
“Many women cause their own rape by the way
they act and the clothes they wear around men.”

sttglents were asked 25 questions

photo by Elizabeth Ureennouse, special to The Ring-tum Pi I

Chestnuts roasting on an open fire...

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

The third time was a charm
for a car thief last Saturday when
he broke into and hot-wired a car
parked in Woods Creek Parking
lot, . . , V - . .

The thief removed the door
lock from law student Robert
Grant’s 1988 Chevy Blazer, and
then started it and drove away.

According to Lexington Po-
lice Chief Bruce Beard, someone
attempted to steal two similar
vehicles in the same way, one on
Nelson St. and one on White St.,
earlier that night.

Beard said police recovered
the Blazer and arrested a suspect,
25-year-old Colin Quentin
Chappell, in Newport News on
Monday. Quentin has a Buena

-‘ Men
Women

24.6%

State 1991

 

 1992

W&L 1993

Percent of students agreeing with the statement

Vista address.

Grant said his insurance com-
pany will pay for the damage to
his truck, although he has not yet
seen the extent of the damage.
He added that he did not have a
car alann.

f‘l~’m just glad W&L Security
and the Lexington police got on
the case so quick,” said Grant.
“I’ll probably look into getting a
little more security for.[the car].”

The two other cars, a 1987
Ford Bronco and a 1992 Chevy
Blazer, were tampered with in
similar ways as Grant’s Blazer.
The owner of the 1987 Bronco
apparently left the doors un-
locked, so there was no forced
entry.

However, the steering column
showed signs of tampering. Beard
said the thief took a wallet from

By BUNNY WoNo
Phi STAFF WRITER

“Many men secretly want to rape a woman."

PC

One car stolen;
two attempted

the car, but only got away with
some pictures.

Marina Jackson, owner of the
1992 Blazer, said she discovered
a hole in the driver’s side door of
her truck.

“It was a nice neat hole,” said

-Jackson. “The police said-[the

thief] really knew what he was
doing. He was in my car but
couldn’t hotwire it.”

Beard said the thief tampered
with the steering column trying
to start the car. Police found
pieces of plastic from the steer-
ing columns where the cars were
parked.

Jackson said there were no
alarms on her car.

‘‘I thought it was awful,” said
Jackson. “I live in Houston and
nothing like this ever happened
there. Now I have the Club.”

SAGE educates

Student group ﬁghts STDS

Educated by W&L Health Educator Jan

Kaufman, SAGE seeks to “discuss information

ness Group Educators (SAGE).

‘Although the weather was chilly Sunday, over 100 people cruised out to ZoIlman’s for the first ever W&L]
VMI social event. Lost in the Supermarket played at the event sponsored by the Preston Society, a group
formed to better relations between the two schools. These students decided to keep warm by chatting
around the fireplace. For details on the event, see the related story on page 2.

this school year.

gether 21 other W&L students.

SAGE member Carol Pierce.

Black studies major maybe in works

Sophomore trying to gauge interest for new program

0 By DAVID WILMINGTON

Phi STAFF WRITER

interest in Black studies ﬁve years ago when he first

began teaching at W&L.

Although most students have stopped thinking about
organizing their classes, one sophomore is looking for

more.
John Branam has attempted to
gaige student, faculty and adminis-
tration support to create a Black Stud-
ies major at Washington and Lee.
After talking to students, Branam
said he “really saw a need for that
type of program. It would add a lot to
the curriculum...there’s a lack in the
diwrsity of education at W&L.”
Though no official guidelines have
been set, Branam has a general idea of
the form for the major. After the re-
quired courses, Branam said the ma-
jor would draw from almost every
current department on campus. The
cowses for a Black Studies major
would focus on aspects of traditional
majors that concern black experience.
Jarvis Hall, assistant professor of
politics, also believes there might be
enough interest to begin a new major.
Hall said there was not as much

1?

 

Branam

“I mentioned it and people thought there was not a
constituency,” he said.

Hall believes the combination of courses in a Black
Studies program would allow professors to make certain

concepts clearer than if the courses
were spread across different depart-
ments.

“The importance of black experi-
ence to all Americans and the con-
nectedness of it could be better un-
derstood by bringing the different
related aspects together under one
major,” he said.

The creation of an official major
would be an important step toward a
more thorough educational experi-
ence, Hall said.

‘‘It would almost guarantee a com-
mittal of resources,” Hall said

‘‘In many of the classes—english,
history and some politics — there
sometimes lacks a diversity of
thought,” Branam said. “That’s one
of the things a Black Studies major
would bring. Having a Black Studies
Major would not only bring diversity
of thought, but also a more diverse

student body.”
The major would offer something to everyone at
W&L, not just to black students, Branam said.

“STeients, black and white, are looking for exposure
to thoughts they hadn’t thought before. That’s what a
college experience should be — expanding your hori-
zons,” Branam said.

Branam said the theory behind a Black Studies major
is clearly inclusive, not exclusive.

“By understanding what it means to be black is also
to learn what it means to be white,” Branam said.

The large amount of interest in the specifically black-
oriented classes already taught at W&L makes Branam
confident that the student body might be ready for the
major.

Senior Allison Lewis, Branam’s classmate in Profes-
sor Demaree Peck’s African-American Literature class
and senior Executive Committe representative, supports
the idea. . .

“Obviously there is a need,” said Lewis. ‘‘I ’ve noticed
that the last few classes at W&L have had a different
ﬂavor , they’re more diverse...l think our student body
could use some more diversity. We’re a pretty homog-
enous student body.” ‘

Lewis sees practical advantages for having a Black

I-vsee BLACK STUDIES, page 3

Sex, contraception, and STD’s.
Last spring, 25 juniors and sophomores decided
to address these issues by forming Sexual Aware-

Started by junior Missy Curtis, SAGE began
presentations concerning contraception and STD ’s

Curtis, along with three other women, got to-

“We tried to get people who were respected at
W&L. People who cared about heath,” said junior

[about contraception and STD’s} with the fresh-

men, in the hopes that they will better understand

counselors.

the facts,” said a SAGE memo given to all dorm

SAGE also informs students of available infor-

they address.

mation on the W&L campus concerning the issues

The group met once a week during the spring

and is currently making presentations.

“Right now we’re just making presentations for

the freshmen,” said Pierce.

I» See SAGE, page 3

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World   

Pontiff takes a tumble

The Pope fell down the stairs.
Pope John Paul II, the 73-year-old pontiff, slipped and fell

 

 

down four steps while greeting officials attending a confer- 0

ence of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization. The
Pope was able to break his fall with his hand, but doctors
insisted on taking X-rays, which came up negative. John Paul
was able to finish his meeting without any problems.

Bus accident kills 10 in England:
Nine American tourists dead

Ten people were killed in a bus accident Thursday in
Canterbury, England when the bus hit a van and skidded
down an embankment. Nine of the 10 killed were American
tourists. The British bus driver was also killed. “

Forty-six people were aboard the bus when it crashed. The
tourists were on their way to see famous cathedrals and
castles when the crash occurred.

The Nation

High school pep rally causes
six frostbitten fannies

 

Six Oregon high school girls may need skin grafts after
participating in a high school pep rally.

The six girls were chosen by the student body of Oregon’s
Silverton High School to participate in a contest to see who
could sit on a block of dry ice the longest. Silverton’s
principal acknowledged the mistake, saying he would make
sure it didn ’t happen again. Dry ice is the solid form of carbon
dioxide and can get as cold as 112 degrees below zero.

Malibu concerned more with
mudslides than forest fires

R_esid,;erItspf l\__/lalib_u,y_j California were worrying more about
T’  f .  < . .. iapprvaching storm
threateh¥C5§!:€i€Ht39é’ hills. 1' ' " " 
The  :vye_ré lieftlbare after forest fires destroyed hun-
dreds of homes and 200,000 acres in six counties. A quarter-
inch to a half-inch of rain was expected in Southern Califor-
nia. Without trees and their roots being present, very little
can keep mud from sliding down Malibu’s hills.

Studies show: a drink a day
may keep the doctor away

 
 

Researchers in Atlanta, Boston and Oakland are beginning
to admit that nondrinkers might reduce their risk of heart
disease if they have a drink of wine with their dinner.

Their study focuses on a comparison between the heart
disease rate in France, where tradition places wine on the
dinner table, and the United States. The French rate of heart
disease is less than half of the American rate. In the United
States, 200 people die of heart disease for every 100,000
people per year. The French rate is 75 deaths per 100,000 per
year. Researchers are beginning to accept that French wine-
drinking may be linked to the reduced rate.

The State L

Bobbitt acquitted of marital"
assault in mutilation case

John Bobbitt was acquitted of marital sexual assault
Wednesday in the famous Manassas case of the man whose
wife cut off his penis.

Lorena Bobbitt testified that she cut off her husband’s
penis with a filleting knife as he slept after pinning her down
and raping her on June 23. A jury member said the jury_ was
inﬂuenced by suggestions that Mrs. Bobbitt was simply
dissatisfied with her husband’s sexual performance, rather
than distraughtover a sexual assault. Mrs. Bobbitt testified
that her husband was insensitive in bed.

Mrs. Bobbitt will face 20 years in prison if convicted on a
malicious wounding charge. Her trial is set for November 29.

Manassas to host new Disney
historical theme park in 1998

The Walt Disney Co. Thursday unveiled plans for a theme
park in Manassas that will allow patrons to relive history.

Disney has purchased or has options on 3,000 acres in the
historic Civil War battlefield community. Disney plans to
spend hundreds of millions of dollars on the park, according
to the president of Disney’s design and development divi-
sion. The park is expected to open in 1998. It could generate
over $1.5 billion in tax revenues for the state and Prince
William County over 30 years.

NEWS

The Rin -tum Phi November 12 1999

 

 

VMI, W&L students gather
at Zollman’s for first mixer

By EMILY BAKER and
MELISSA SAWYER
of TheiRing-tum Phi Staﬁ‘

They spent three hundred
dollars on security, but the
party went off without a hitch.
The event: the ﬁrst joint
W&L-VMI party.

“Go out there and meet
somebody new.”

With this announcement,
the band Lost in the Super-
market began playing at
Zollman’s on Sunday.

Approximately ﬁfty Vir-
ginia Military Institute and
Washington and Lee students
gathered at Zollman’s at a
party sponsored by the Preston
Society, a group organized to
promote better relations be-
tween students of the two cam-
puses. Jason Dunn, a W&L
student and a founding mem-
ber of the society, said that he
was very pleased with the
event and that he hoped many
more such “mixers” would
follow. Dunn’s twin brother,
Martin, is a student at VMI.

Atticus Gill, a freshman at
W&L, said that “it was a good
time to throw down the ste-
reotypes.”

Partygoers appeared to en-
joy themselves and the event
ended without any complica-

tions. ,

Many of the students agreed
that getting to know each other
on an individual basis lead them
to diminish the traditional ani-
mosity. Gill blamed the bad
relations on “bad press and
fights that get hyped up.” He
said that individual disagree-
ments are often seen as school
issues.

George Stringer, a third
class student. or a junior, at
VMI, said that coaches at both
schools encourage rivalries
among students. Stringer, how-
ever, said that the administra-
tors and faculty of the schools
did not encourage the tensions
or the open ﬁghts between their
students.

The Preston Society spent
approximately $1400 on the
event at Zollman’s. To build
on the success of this event, as
members hope, the Society will
have to go to the EC to ask for
more money.

Bryan Patterson, lead singer
of Lost In the Supermarket,
said relations between the two
schools have not changed much
since he graduated from W&L
in 1991. “I think (the mixer)
can be a great success,” he said,
at the start of the party. “There
are deﬁnitely a lot of miscon-
ceptions about each others’
schools.”

.<
.=-W-»

Photo by Elizabeth Greenhouse, special to The Ring-tum Phi

W&L students and VMI cadets partied together to the sounds of Lost in the
Supermarket Sunday. (L to R): Susanna Craib-Cox, Martin Dunn, Karl Bucus

Patrick Reynolds speaks out_

CD&P warns of strenuous job searches .

By MICHAEL HEwLEI'r
Phi Staff Writer

If your job search is getting you nowhere, then
stop by the Career Department and Placement Of-
ﬁce. You may just get some relief from your frustra-

tions.

According to Beverly Lorig, Associate Dean. of
Career Development and Placement, the Selective
Liberal Arts Consortium sponsors interviewing days
with various companies in New York, Atlanta, Wash-
ington, D.C., Chicago, Los Angeles and Philadel-

phia.

Lorig said 107 seniors have submitted their re-
sumes to interview with companies around the coun-

try.

Although SLAC is the only job fair CD&P par-
ticipates in, Lorig said that Careers ‘94 is open to

W&L seniors.

For undergraduates looking for internships, Lori g
said that CD&P has developed information on spe-
ciﬁc internships and has written companies about
internships and job openings. Lorig said that work-

J shops are offered for practice interviews, resumes
internships. Freshmne have also taken advantyage of

CD&P resources

Lorig added that students can take advantage of

alumni contacts.

“Alumni have been very receptive as students
pursue their career interests,” said Lorig.
Lorig said that the job market will be a challenge

for seniors this year.

“However, there are still opportunities, but it will

take effort to find the job they want,”said Lorig.
“Seniors must be prepared fora strenuous job search.”

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
Patrick Reynolds, grandson of tobacco giant R.J. Reynolds,
speaks to students about the secrets of the tobacco lobby in the
Leyburn Library's Northen Auditorium on Tuesday. Despite his
anti-smoking stance, Reynolds is a reformed smoker, having
quit a dozen times since he started smoking as a teenager.

By YAI3Iz SEDGHI
Phi CONTRIBUTING WRl1'ER

Why would Patrick Reynolds,
grandson of the tobacco giant R.J.
Reynolds fight the tobacco industry?

On Nov. 9 in Northen Auditorium,
Reynolds revealed the events and Ino-
tives that have led him to where he is
today.

When Reynolds was three his par-
ents divorced and he did not see his
father for six years.

At the age of nine, Reynolds ﬁnally
wrote a’ letter to his father: “Dear Dad,
I want to meet you. Love your son,
Patrick.” 0

After being forwarded from place
to place, the letter miraculously reached
his father’s hand and he was sent for.
Unfortunately, as a result of smoking,
his father was dying of emphysema.
Over the next seven years Reynolds
saw his father only ﬁv_e more times and
each time he saw his father slowly
wither further away.

Watching his father die did not stop
Reynolds from smoking. Like many
other teenagers, he started smoking to
look older and impress girls. Today,
after twelve attempts at quitting,
Reynolds is ﬁnally smokefree.

In 1986, Reynolds and a friend went
to Washington D.C. with a friend to
make donations for the Republican
Senate Campaign Fund. During this
time, Reynolds met Senator Bob
Packwood and innocently asked him
why cigarette taxes are so low in the
United States— the lowest of any in-
dustrial nation. Packwood asked
Reynolds to come down to a commit-
tee meeting in which they were dis-
cussing the expiring 16 cent federal
excise tax. He also asked Reynolds if
he would like to testify before the com-
mittee. At the time, Reynolds found the
idea quite distressing and
unfathomable.

When he went back to California,

Reynolds started learning about tobacco
issues. He found out about a possible
bill banning cigarette advertising in the
U.S. As a result, he called up the
American Cancer Society and other
institutions to testify on their behaﬁ.
After this encounter, Reynolds claims
that he was besieged with requests for
speaking engagements.

Reynolds explained that for the most
part, his family does not worry about
his outspokenness. At ﬁrst he admitted
that because of the family’s previogs
experience with the media, they were
worried about being embarrassed. They
were also afraid that their stock values

would plummet. Reynolds sold his ~

R.J. Reynolds stock back to the family
in 1979.

Reynolds went on to discuss t e
strength of the tobacco lobby in Was -
ington and the problems with advertis-
ing. In reference to the 1992 Presiden-
tial campaigns in which both Bush and
Clinton received record amounts of
contributions from the tobacco lobby,
Reynolds said “No corporation ev§r
gave money without getting songethi g
in return.”

Reynolds, deeply disturbed by the
tobacco industry’s targeting of teens
and minorities, criticized the lack of
federal regulation.

“Ninety percent of all who smoke
are addicted by age 19,” said Reynolds.
He said he supports banning cigarette
advertising and increasing the smok-
ing age to 21.

“Tobacco advertising is an abuse of
Freedom of.Speech,” Reynolds added.

According to Reynolds, since the
1960s, smoking has decreased in ﬁre
U.S. and has had a worldwide increase
of 73 percent. Reynolds believes that
this increase is due to the targeting the
Third World and the Far East popula-
tions that are eager for the status that
America brings.-

“This is the greatest crime of we
20th century,” Reynolds exclaimed.

\

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-rum Phi

Ruth Lewis and Beverly Lorig of CD&P can assist students in their job searches.

 

i

 

- Ring-tum Phi, November 12,1 993

PAGE 3

exual attitudes survey results released

.. URVEY, from page one

he ercentageofW&Lmenwho
- ed ith the statement thata woman
pretend she does not want sex
use she doesn’t want to seem
e, but she hopes men will insist,
t 14.4 percent, below both the
ious year’s percentage and the

k F ce’s.

Ou men in 1993 scored below
yearon (this percentage) and were
tantially lower than Virginia men
ss the state, so that’s encourag-
” said Dean Schroer-Lamont. “But
whole idea that a woman hopes a
1 wi I insist doesn’t bear up with
su eys that have ever been done

State 991W&Ll .2W&L 1

993

order to protect men. judicial , ’

Percent of students agreeing with the statement ‘In

it very diﬂicult for a woman to prove she was raped."

should mako

omen. When a woman says ‘no,’

wants men to hearthat ‘no’ and not
. rpret it as a maybe.”

& L men’s

re of 23.2 per-
t agreeing with
staﬂmem that
woman drinks
e point of help-
‘ness and has
, it isn’t rape,
le lower than
. Virginia men’s
re ﬁ28%), is
t where we
- Id like to see
according to
an Schroer-
ont. “In all
esty, if a
anéshelpless,
he is uncon-
us, and a man
sex with her, it
peaccordingto

deﬁnition in the state of Virginia.”

intercourse without consent by use of
threat, force, intimidation or due to

occurs.
“That’s what we’ve tried to educate
men about,”
said Schroer-

J sun-1991 W&L1992 war. :99

Percent of students agreeing with the statmnent ‘A
woman will pretend she does not want. sex because she
doesn't want to seem loose. but she hopes men will insist.”

Lamont. “You
have nothing to
gain by having
sex with a
passed out
woman.”

“In the legal
sense, a man is
taking a tre-
mendous risk.
For a man to
havesex with (a
passed out
woman)...he is
k n 0 w i n g l y
c o m mi tt i n g
rape.”

The number
ofboth men and

physical helplessness or mental inca-

Virginia law deﬁnes rape as sexual pacity of victim in which penetration

I women agree-
ing with the statement that many women
cause their own rape by the way they

act and the clothes
they wear around
men decreased in
1993. 5.7 percent
of freshman
women agreed
with this statement
in 1993 as opposed
to 9.1 percent in
1992. The men’s
also decreased
from 44.8 percent
to 26.6 percent.
“That’s still
frightening,” said
Dean Schroer-
Lamont. In addi-
tion to the fact that
one in four men
agreed with the
statement, “I think
it is also upsetting
to women when
they see that even a
small percentage of
women agree with

State 1991 W&L 1992 W&L1993

this.”

One-fourth of
men, 24.4 percent,
say that many men

A Pprcent of students agreeing with the statement “If a
man doesn’t have sex with a woman who wants to, his
masculinity may be questioned.”

secretly want to
rape a woman. This
has held consis-
tently with last

PC

year’s W & L per-
centage and with
that of the State Task Force. One-tenth
of W & L women also agreed with this
statement.

One of the most troubling statistics,
according to Dean Schroer-Lamont, is
the fact that signiﬁcantly more men
than women agree that responsibility
for preventing rape lies with men.
While 59.1 percent of men agreed with

the statement, only 52.1 percent of
women agreed with it.

“Women are into blaming the vic-
tim behavior just as men are. It’s a
national problem that exists.”

“I think it’s early in this study to
draw conclusions. I hope we can con-
tinue this survey for the next couple of

‘ years, and will continue to educate and

see if we can make an impact now. lam
somewhat encouraged that several of
these items are showing greater matu-
rity in the response percentages.”

“Our whole reason for doing this is
to educate. We really want to raise
awareness, change attitudes, and help
students make more responsible deci-
sions for themselves.”

. ophomore proposes black studies major to deans

BLRCK STUDIES, from page one

dies major. “In the business world, you
1’t just take economics classes to get a job. A
of people are hiring people who have back-
unds in sociology and more specialized
Ids.”

Braﬂam said he believes some of the re-

ably already here. According to Branam, there
are already enough faculty members to teach
the major.

He speciﬁcally singled out Hall as “most
qualiﬁed to teach Black Studies at W&L.”

Lewis said she believes the hardest resource
to come by will be support from the administra-
tion.

“I think most of the resistance will come
from the administration. They’re very con-

cemed with tradition,” Lewis said. “I think the
traditions at W&L should be the Honor System
and academic excellence.”

Branam said the efforts of Associate Dean
of Students Anece McCloud and Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison indicate the administra-
tion might be receptive to his plan.

“The university has been gathering most of
the black students togetherwith Dean McCloud
and Dean Howison to get impressions of their

experience at W&L,” Branam said. “I’ve talked
at some length with Dean Howison and he is
very interested but only mildly supportive.”

Branam said he has realistic ideas of what
goals to pursue with the program.

“We’re open-minded. We know we’re not
just going to ﬂy in here with Black Nationalism
or something,” Branam said. “The main goal is
to open people’s minds.”

Branam’s current plan is to measure support

for his idea.

“We’re trying to build a consensus that this
would really add something to W&L and then
ﬁnd students interested to sit down with other
students and faculty and ﬁnd out what they
believe should be included.”

Branam calls the creation of a Black Studies
major “a pretty major move for W&L but
nonetheless a necessary one.”

“I think it’s a no-lose situation,” he said.

rces needed to start a new major are prob-

Shop for

Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories .

oppugoggot

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

TGIF Ca alog Ou le

BIRTHDAY BASH
Friday & Saturday Only

Here’s our gift to you!
Extra Extra E.\'tra I€.\‘(ra lZ.\'lra lZ.\‘1m l ixrru
_ Instant Rebate
 $25 Off any purchase $99 or more.

$10 Off any purchase $49 c:> $98.

$5 Off any purchase $29 0 $48.
Nov. 12th and 13th

vuxg v.u.\‘3 29.1 ix] v.u.\'31 n_n.\‘_'.1 v_n.\j( m1.\‘_'. 1

Lexin ton Store Only
Just imagine... your ad , 17_ . Malﬂ StI'6ClI
could be in this space and Lexington, Va 24450 I
both you and the Phi Hours Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5 :30
would be much happier 463-97 30

l).ll.\'_T] m1.\f1

éessasgasaeea

Organizational

Meeting
Wednesday, November 17th
73OpnL
Reid Hall 203
Attention Sophomores:
Applications available for  
Tri-Chairmen
Freshmen also encouraged to apply.

. __..._ .....__.. ._..

Stanewa ‘§2i7i.=i‘re Shopping Center
LexIngtan,V
463-9800

Come in and take the If we don’t have
what you want, we will order it for you and give you $2.00 oﬁ‘ purchase
price. Guaranteed delivery in two working days. If we fail, you receive an
additional $1.00 off any purchase of a full-length piece of music.

Challenge Us Today!

Bryan Adams - So Far So Good
Phil Collins - Both Sides
Lowell George - The Factory
N 0 Alternative - No Alternative
J imi Hendrix - ‘Stone Free
A Tribe Called Quest - Midnight Marauder
Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri & Sat. 10a.m.-ll p.m., Sun.
Noon-10 p.m. '

O

+<
f4¥¥¥¥¥¥444¥4¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

EL

~ like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic Visa

  

PAGE 4

  The Anatomy of the Citibank

Classic card: a body of services and peace of mind
f0l° students. For years, scientists could only theorize about the Citibank Classic Visa“ card,

unable to actually observe anything below its epidermal surface (i.e. the plastic). Surely, the highly

intelligent  were evidence of an advanced brain. But with the latest advances in x-ray technology,

and when the light could catch the various parts just so, it was coniimied: the Citibank Classic Visa card  

 ..  mg A    vb - r  F3 3 is head to toe more evolved than ever imagined. ‘ll At its

   
 

backbone are 3 services to cover the purchases you make

on the card. Starting at the Lower Costal Spine, 

see Citibank Price Protection can assure you of the
best price. All you have to do is discover the same item
 in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank

Scientists theorize that the mind of the Citibank Classic Visa
cardmember (Fig A) is secure because it receives superior
service; the mind of the non- Citibank Classic Visa cardmember

(Fig 3) is not secure because—couId it be—it has a screw loose?  refund the difference up to $150‘. Along the 0ops-It-
Slipped Disc, Buyers Securit y"" can cover those purchases against accidental damage, ﬁre or theft, for 90
days from the  of purchase‘; and Citibank Lifetime Warranty" allows one to extend the warranty
for the expected service life of eligible products up to 12 yearsz. So if you ever buy a walkman, a stereo,
whatever, it will be reassuring to know that Citibank can bend and be ﬂexible while still lending support.
1] The backbone is then connected to the cranium or headbone. You can actually see it on the top left
hand comer of the card. Look at the bottom of the page. The Citibank Photocard has the head of the
cardholder on it, as well as his or her own signature, right on the front. That way, it will help prevent fraud.

It will make a  arm as well, since you getioi j  But what about the

 
 

  

Nervous System? The fact is, it doesri’ t have one, not in the spinal  nor in the brain. What it has is the
Very Calm System. Because even if your credit‘ card gets stolen, or gets lost, an involuntary muscle called
the Extendus Anewcardeus activates the Lost Wallet“" Service which can replace your card usually
within 24 hours. 1] As suspected, there’s another involuntary muscle: the heart—a beating and caring
heart, big enough to give students special discounts and  You’ll receive a $20 Airfare Discount
on domestic ﬂights’; savings on mail orderpurchases, sports equipment,  and music; a low
variable interest rate of 15.4%“; and, no annual fee. (In other words, the card itself doesrr’ t cost a forelimb
and a hindlimb.) 1] Naturally the heart of the Citibank Visa card pumps life and personalized customer
service into all its parts, 24 hours a day. So no matter what the question you nright have concerning
your card, you need only call the 800 number. Citibank representatives each have a neck they are eager
to stick out for you. They will always lend an ear.  a hand. They will keep an eye out for you. They will
put their best foot forward. Etc. ‘ll So call to apply. You don’ t need a job or La cosigner. And call if you’d

card. The number is 1-800-CITIBANK (1-C800-248-4226),
extension 19. ‘H If we take an overview of the whole body of
services that make up the Citibank Classic Visa card, and
consider that it will facilitate building a credit history, then

you must shake a leg, ﬂex your index ﬁnger and call today. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.

‘Certain conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program lnfonnznion. Buyers Securit is underwritten _by The Zurich International UK
Limited. ’Certain restrictions and limitations a ly. Underwritten by the New Hampshue Insurance Company. Service ‘I e expectancy vanes by product and_ is at least the
minimum based on retail industry data. Details 0 coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. ’Oli‘er expires 6/30/94. Mrmmum ticket purchase
price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembeis on tickets issued by ISE Flights only.‘ The Annual Percentage.Rate (APR) for purchases is 15.4% as of 10/93 and may
vary quarterly. The APR for cash advances is l9.8%. If a ﬁnance charge is imposed, the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional ﬁnance charge for each cash advance
transaction equal to 2% of the amount of each cash advance transaction; however, it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $10.00. Monarch’ Notes are published by Monardi
Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Communications Company. Used by permission of publisher. ©1993 Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. Member FDIC.

"Call? cl-800i-CITIBAN ;

 

     
 

O

1hmFN.IovllD812, me

 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

Monarch Notes’ Versibn
With your purchases covered
no fee, and a’ low rate, th

Citibank Classic Visa card
goeasyporiyoiirltlerwtis ‘ 

(1-I00-248-4226), extension, 1 'e

 

  
  
 
 
 

The Ring-tum Phi November 12, 1993

By HILLARY Olson
Phi Staff Writer

On the grounds of the other Lexington cam-
pus, the cadets of Virginia Military Institute
perform an elaborate ritual every Friday at 4:30
p.m.

The VMI parade is a complex formation
originally practiced in preparation for battle but
continued now as a matter of tradition. Its
powlarity with tourists may also account for its
long lasting existence.

As you might expect, the parade follows a
speciﬁc pattern every week.

The first to march onto the parade deck, the
ﬁeld in front of the barracks, is Band Company.
The drummers perform a cadence to keep the
cadsts in step. From the three arches of the
barracks emerge the nine other companies,
separated- into three battallions of three compa-
nies each. Each company is led by a company
commander in front and a cadet guidon who
holds the company guidon, the ﬂag with the
company’s letter.

e companies are named alphabet, Alpha
through India, after the military alphabet used
to clarify letters in radio communications.

The companies line up in alphabetical order
facing the reviewing stand where the officer of
the review, often Superintendant Major Gen-
eral John Knapp, supervises the parade.

Also facing the companies is the Regimen-
tal Staff,,a group ofseniorcadets headed by
Regimen'tal’Commander' Jon 'Laude'r.~ Lauder
delivers the commands of the parade.

, The parade colors, the United States, Vir-

ﬂanked by two others with riﬂes who march
between the companies and the Regimental
'I'he’Regimental Adjutant, another member

of the Regimental Staff, directs the cadets to fix
: bayonets on the end of their_riﬂes. The use of
‘ bayonets is an honor granted to VMI to recog-
nize its participation in the Battle of New

Mar

  
 

A

  

 

  
   

By Kathleen Quirk

Phi Staff Writer

    
    
 
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
    
 
   
   
     
    
    
     
   

9

, ginia.andVMI ﬂags, are carriediby threejcadets, ,

 

 

  ‘I/I/@“Li e 
Eeeeesaeéasegs E eeeaee  

Cadets honor tradition with weekly march

The Corps also wears red on their overcoats
to signify the blood lost at New Market where
ten cadets gave their lives.

According to tradition, the cadets’ coatees,
dress blouses with tails and gold buttons worn
by upperclassman during the parade, have
unsewn tails to remind them that cadets at New
Market had to cut the tails of their uniforms to
make bandages to care for the wounded.

The Regimental Commander leads the Corps
in Riﬂe Manual, a routine that emphasizes
precision and perfect timing.

The band is featured during Sound Off,
when it marches back and forth in front of the
reviewing stand playing marches with strong
drum beats. Band Company Commander
George Schrefﬂer leads the band and some-
times acts as drum major. The band practices its
rather complicated marching routines on Tues-
day afternoons on the parade deck and its music

on Thursdays after dinner.

The Officers’ Call is next, in which all
company officers and their guidons come for-
ward to face the Regimental Staff. Historicall,

this call gave the commander the chance to give
instructions to his officers before a battle.

The next activity, after the band plays the
National Anthem, is Pass and Review. At this
point the companies pass before the officer of
the review as the band plays a cadence.Each
company, lined up from tallest to shortest,
marches by with two of its three platoons since
many of the cadets are usaually absent because
of sport functions. The rats, freshmen cadets,

arein a separate platoon because they have not
yet been fitted for coatees and still wear grey
blouses. As the cadets pass by the reviewing
stand, they turn their heads at the command
“eyes right” to honor those officers on the
reviewing stand.

The cadets then return to barracks in forma-
tion as the band plays another cadence. With

little variation, the cadets dedicate almost an

hour every Friday afternoon to honor this mili-
tary tradition.

“Even though the parades are sometimes a
hassle to us, the parents and community seem to
enjoy them,” said cadet Vein Wilkens.

Fashion mavens take note: don’t expect much
radical trend setting on the Washington and Lee

campus this winter.

It shouldn’t surprise anyone to ﬁnd students

here are ending fall with a traditional look.

 

PAGE 5

Whether running late to class or hangin’ at the Co-op, many students opt for the
casual, yet timeless, “sweats and sneakers” look.

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Virginia Military Institute cadets stand tall during their weekly parade and review.

  l:C]Sl’lOfl Pei o clelails “ClC]SSlC”  lo0l<s

A glance at male and female style, or lack thereof, on the Hill

“People dress really conservatively here,”
says freshman Christi Wooldridge. “Very J.

‘ Crew, Gap—ish — all the guys dress the same.”

Indeed, the College Town Shop reports
Duckhead pants and ﬂannel shirts are as popu-
lar as ever. Jeans, of course, are omnipresent,
along with the T—shirts worn under every but-
ton-down which is often left untucked for a
casual look. Baseball caps are plentiful even on
good hair days and almost no one goes without
hiking or duck boots. As the weather grows
cooler, wool sweaters and big coats — espe-
cially barn jackets —— make their appearance
too. '

When the occasion calls for something a

little dressier, W&L guys turnout in droves
wearing navy blazers and khakis. Some, though,
make the foray into new territory with herring-
bone or tweed. Shirts — usually white——and
ties fill out the outﬁt, while insignia belts — the
ultimate W&L accessory—complete it. Varia-
tions on the theme include khaki shorts (when
the weather was warmer), jeans, bowties and
suspenders and, of course, baseball caps,. Close
observers can also find the occasional suit — in
dark, traditional colors only, with the exemp-
tion of those great seersucker suits the deans
wear with white Bucks in summer. In general,
W&L just says no to anything ﬂashy, funky, or
Euro—styled.

W&L girls are wearing a broader range of
styles — especially in class. There the look can
range from sweats — the “late—for—class ca-
sual” look — to jeans, skirts or dresses.

“Here they dress up more for class than for
going out,” says freshman Marie Lamb.

Girls even wear ﬂannel shirts with their
jeans and hiking boots. Southwestern styles are
also highly popular according to the College
Town Shop. Girls often wear vests, along with
wrap skirts in a wide variety of styles. Wrap
skirts, both short and long, straight skirts, and
plaid skirts (pleated, straight, short and long)

are very visible. Jackets are always popular
with tailored skirts, wool slacks and wide-
pants. Favorite fabrics include chambray, fuzzy
ﬂannel and fine gauge sweaters. Pretty sweat-
ers are never wrong; W&L women generally
choose classic traditional clothing.

“I think the biggest fad that will ever hit here

is someone changing the color of their argyles,”
says freshman Caitlyn Pentleton.

Part one of two

Photo by Richard Weaver, The Ring-tum Phi

     
      

 
 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-ruin Phi

Barn jackets and khaki pants are considered essentials for the discriminat-
ing W&L male.

    
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
        
  
      
      
      
       
    
   
    
     

 

W&LIFE

    

O

The Ring-tum Phi, November 12,1993

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

Pluggers

gff tI|¢ mark by Mark Parisi

Ail,~/Es, MR. eono... wHEN WE
CANDLE BURNS THE ROPE IT WILL
mass rm; spams ssnome THE
rsowuue BALLTOWARD m5 DOMlNo£s
WHICH WILL H17 THE 76661.5 swlTcH...

‘_ ~ oi9sarnmmMoaasuvas.mc./F|uo9cvI-lv-=-
V I 1

  

%i?a’.€ 

lw,
 §

 

9-ll nwmc rurw eiumuumw

   
  

by Jeff MacNe1ly

   

/

sometimes lying isn't 1ying,it'9 éurvival .

a 
M0005 OF
A CAT

?/{T95/In Odd

//~ ‘\§“ 79-?
(-0
I

by David Miller

Dave

  
       
 

   

\\ ‘
PoléuNANT
FAFHER —~- 9-ON
MoME_NT .
FALL ‘la

\"'

Colonnade Crossword
ACROSS 1

1 Long tooth

5 Had debts V

9 Cowboy's rope
14 Assert formally

_ 15 Fix roads
16 Actress
Susan -—
17 Reside
18 March date
19 Derisive sound
20 "Queen for —"
21 Roman tyrant
22 Barbara or Clara
23 Works in the
garden

25 52

  
 

NON (§EQUlTUll

35%

\\/ll'.’=-‘EV.

l—lAPPY sea SNUUIY Humane  <-



ﬂy..-

DAl7...(.lM...NElZE EXACTLY I5 Your?
WAl6TLlNE ? WHAT HAPPENED To IT?
...AND 16- n’ HEl?El>lTARY.7

BATH TIME.

.\ (1,/at
r.~l‘;'%v’/’ ra-
‘I/" /’//

’ \

01933 Tfmuvll Media services, he.

  
  
      
    
    

 

&fE\ 7

 \

llo\N To TELL YOU'RE LEl>N\N(-’ 5
l\ NNOR l\N\E\’4¢l\N CYYY...

     
      

Al sigma Resolved

 
   

              

  
    

1 ,__ / :7" "   \\Illé,V§
'_ -r l.l>~éT CP~Rx3l>~C\<V=\? §
. / :§ ‘
i
ll
R
B

 

  

   
  

    
      
           
   

 

 

  

  

 

   

Small or large groups. Your’s
FREE, discounted or CASH.
Call CMI 1-800-423-5264

F7‘
The

Point of View

Restaurant

   
    
   
  
 
 

Next to Days Inn, Rt. 60 West
3 463-7797
[ Casual Dining
2 Elegant Setting
Finest Steaks - Fresh Seafood
Pork Ribs - Banquet Facilities
l

Wanted: Waiters & Waitresses,
K part time. Call: 463-7797

J

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus

OIIHBEYMIIIIIWIJTOGIII
C.~ll.L I500! 714 ~ Still?

FLORIDA KEYS

  

‘BEACH SPRING BR_EAK PROMOTER

 

  

   
  

     
        
     
     
       

   

      
 

_ADDA

 
 
     

£pEc1AL

   

Programs 1-800-327-6013.

   

With the Autumn

 
     

 adds to the

 ﬂorist to The Homestead .
‘Ten East Nelson 0 Lexington 0 465-9841

Harvest Bouquet,
this bounty of
seasonal color

A _ celebration.

27 intuitive letters -/3 l
28 Bear the cost

31 Troubles

32 goes fish k ..

a snac 1-,  - o
332:::a::*°°9  OFFHANPAI? 5A9
41 R bb't k‘ .,.‘,-~
42 lnzigencr owes Tribune Media Services. Inc. 1 1 /12/93 
  , , ..,, ; FAKlNG DEATH
:4; ggiton thread gThought Last week S pun e S0 v    A
47 Btaerleed shrllly haﬂrziﬁlilsly W ,1    l”

48 Barbara — 7 At all ' &

Geddes 8 Laid waste

51 Coastal flyer 9 Movie dog

52 Flow slowly 10 — Karenina

53 Warning sound 11 Gem

55 Audacity 12 Culls

57 First place 13 Ready _ I

2; :::::':.:°'av oE “A5 i‘-‘‘‘' 4»  
3 §gg';;g;°v° SH 5€.l“L‘i»‘.1*5'2,%*-%.Eé’TV#£l‘.&l?1’éF*     o~ ~¢
65 A few 30 — and aft

66 Be cognizant 31 Provide food

67 Restaurant 32 Small dog

g customer 34 Lap dog
68 spouted pitcher 36 Fastener
69 Scaleless 37 Heraldic border
fish 38 Unwanted plant
40 Dread _A
DOWN 44 "Let sleeping 48 Founded 56 Swear
1 FDR's dog dogs —" 49 Oilyv resin 58 Great —
2 Greedy 46 composure 50 Old language 59 Environmental
3 Leningrad river 47 Disney ﬁlm, 52 Muck sci.
4 Racing dogs "Old —" 54 Reign 60 Recent events
V N‘       2
W&L Art “lT’STHEFUNll]iSTFlLMOFTllEYEAR” GROUPS!  l:'““"“’*"°”“‘
0 CLUBS: ‘ EMPLOYMENT
~li.»h l’ulun.~k\. (‘BS \l;\\'S .Vl.'l'\\'()Rl\' . . Make up to $2,000-$4,000+ per
we have three Ralse  to  to month teaching basic
R E  %  III 1688 than 3 - conversational English abroad.
. . J ’ ' Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea.
Signatures; Two are war Date‘ ‘ P920 Mart)’ employers Provide room
w&L C 1  P g , 8: board + other benefits. No
w&L and°l§%er£)e:t§’I:1?%dé%(ﬁ?red t and get 3  T'sh1rt teaching background or Asian
Sculpture by Ron 'l‘un1sori) n ar . . just for calling‘ ia?gua§::r:ig1ﬁired' For more
Mary and George Washington pieces 1 1  1-800-950-1039 ext. 65 m(<2>;;g) m 1 14-6 Ext 5342
From the Director of Wayne's World. ‘_
ﬂ ' . [I>:G]_$. emxr-I-an-.-an-M1 ‘Maw
4 East Washin on Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464 ONLY unerncu me
Open Monday - Saturday _ ’
  10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. 261 7292 o
. Show Times .
Daily 7:00 & 9:15 p.m. -
S t.&S . 12:30, 2:35, 4:45, 7:00 & 9:15 . . . , .
k a "£1275 Beech Aw, Buena “Sm P m] Want It hot? We ve got It. Saucy Meatball and
hearty Steak & Cheese. Steamin’ hot subs
on fresh baked bread with free fixin’s. If you’re .

looking for a hot time, come to Subway.

 

503 E. Nelson
463-3322

 

One ooupon per customer per visit. Not good in combination
with any other offer. Offer expires Nov. 19, 1993

 

Q .
e Ring-tum Phi, November 12, 1993

DAD 5

N   THING’:    

WELL. G UES9 WHAT?

u

IF ou vow 601 IT
  GET IT.’"

MEMBER NETWORK ©l993 omuwoov TRUST (on?/M, HEM$ER‘FDI(

PAGE 8

    

~ 0 " or f
@112 ‘IKIIIQ-111111 lﬂlit
The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Student apathy affects
, White Book review

Last week, members of the White Book Review Committee
distributed surveys to the undergraduates (law students ‘received the
survey this week) to get opinions on how the Honor System was
working and what, if anything, needed to be changed. Less than 600
students, about 38 percent of the undergraduates, bothered to
respond to a survey about a system which governs their every action
on this campus.

The majority of students who completed the survey did so with
the least amount of time and effort. The majority of students
answered only “yes” or “no” without elaborating beyond that. Few
filled in the area asking for additional comments with only those
with a strong opinion using short answers to get their point across.

Granted, many students will never be in the position of facing an
honor trial, but that does not mean we should ignore revision of the
system. Just about the only good thing that can come from simple
one—word answers will be the committee’s calculation of percent-
ages. But is that all one’s opinion should count for ?

Washington & Lee students have never been quick to become
involved and participate whether it be ﬁlling out a survey, cam-
paigning for office, or voting. But one would think students would
be quick to take part in the review of a system which makes W&L
what it is. Whether they did not respond because of a lack of time

or, dare we say, interest, this time W&L students’ apathy caused ’

them to bow out of the debate when they should have been actively
participating. The Honor System at W&L is one of the most
enduring aspects of our campus. Little else during a student’s career
here at W&L will have as great an impact on them as the Honor
System.

Without the Honor System, W&L is little more than an obscure
small liberal arts college in a small town. The trick with the Honor
System is: it works effectively only as long as the students actively
participate in the system. But this student body sent a loud and clear
message that students cannot be bothered to review the Honor
System. Perhaps we do not deserve the system. Certainly student
apathy indicates the system is little more than words in a book we no
longer care about. If there is a time to discard apathy and make time
to participate, it is now. Any student that cares about W&L should
care about the White Book review.

Car 54...Where are you ?

Last month, we ran a front-page story about car stereo thieves on
campus. This week’s story about the theft of a law student’s truck
is just the next link in the chain. Lexington Chief of Police Bruce
Beard will tell you car thefts are a rarity in Lexington. But three
attempts, one of which was successful, were recently made to steal
student automobiles from campus parking lots. So what does this
signify?

Perhaps local thieves have heard how lax security is over at
W&L. Perhaps they have heard W&L freshmen have to park their
cars way out in BFE, even beyond the audible range of a car alarm.
‘Maybe they have. heard security patrols of thewcampus parking lots

» are feW.,%lidv~f3I, between: 1‘ " ‘ . ’  , I 1 I I‘ ‘  ‘

In any case, thieves seem to have specifically targeted W&Lias
an easy mark for thefts. Admittedly, W&L’s Honor System gives
members of the W&L community a laid-back attitude toward
locking their cars, but precautions can be taken.

First, W&L Security needs to step up the patrols of the campus
lots. If campus security officers patrol parking lots more often,
thieves will probably think twice before trying to break into a
student’s automobile. Maybe after prolonged security patrols, the
thieves will get the message that maybe W&L is not such an easy
tar et.

gsecond, students who have to park their cars in isolated lots need
to take more precautions. Let’s face it—these isolated campus
parking lots just don’t cut it. The freshman lot is a thieves’ paradise
-— no one around to hear a car alarm, no one around to see a window
being broken, no one around to see the license plate of a getaway
vehicle. The Wood’s Creek lot is not much better. Our suggestion:
buy something like The Club, an auto theft prevention device. Any
police officer will tell you, the harder it is to steal your car, the less
likely a thief is to even try. .

In any case, the best deterrent against campus thefts is an efficien
security force. Students can’t be expected to go through their daily
routine with one eye riveted on their automobile. Car 54...Where are
you?

Quote of the Week:

“Look it’s a fallacy symbol.” _
—A Raven & Crown customer watching television.

. every competent individual

ge.-.7: - - -..:..-.:;-.-.=- -.-_-.-:-.-.-..-.'..2..-..-..;,.- -..,..- M:-: 1 2. -. 1-:
_ 3, _ . ,

(J11: ﬁtting-tum ﬂirt

Executive Editor . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-. . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas I-Iespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sport Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Pliil Carrott

Editorial Canoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .AlIen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at

» Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-nan Phi

comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but TheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, My Views, and
columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

  
 

q

\ lg 
’ ".§,.,;;
- ‘ 4

   
  

‘ll

 

OPINION

va
ll

1 I

‘Senora; 
Haaasrnwr Fweb Acwﬂsr you, you Au;

Senreueeb TO SP6» THE. NIGHT’
LOZENA Eogrsirf,

H€2E8y
mm

   

The Ring-tum Phl, November 12,199 ~

 or €£xokL

     
 
  

O

I uhinv

Support physician-assisted suicide

Most people wish to die quickly and painlessly at
home surrounded by loved ones. But many people
. expect and fear a prolonged death on a machine in the
hospital all alone and in pain. In our age individuals

suffering from terminal ill-
nesses can be kept alive well

always present.

beyond the deterioration of the
quality of their life. With this
possibility in each of our lives,

should be entitled to make the
personal decision to end their
suffering and hasten their own
death.

 

, AANDREW
F SCHNEIDER,
’94

Over 20 states in the U.'S.
make it a crime for a doctor to

assist in a suicide. Yet polls have shown that at least
half of Americans support physician assisted suicide.

Dr. Jack Kevorkian and his highly publicized
assistance in numerous suicides has caused the Michi-
gan legislature to enact the most recent statute ban-
ning such acts. The Michigan law makes assistance to
a suicide a felony punishable by up to four years in

prison.

Teresa Hobbins and Kenneth Shapiro, both termi-
nally ill cancer patients, are mounting a constitutional
challenge to the Michigan statute. They have been
joined in their lawsuit by seven highly respected
medical professionals who specialize in the treatment

of chronic and terminal illnesses.

Teresa Hobbins has suffered from multiple
myeloma, a severe blood disease, for the past six
years. Multiple myeloma, an incurable illness, spreads
throughout the skeletalsystem, including the skull,
leaving lytic lesions (holes in the bones), turriors and
weak bones that fracture easily. Pain in her bones is

Shapiro said.

Moreover, Shapiro an-
ticipates that the tenninal phases of his disease may
involve extreme and unbearable pain and suffering.
He wishes to have the option of assisted suicide open

to him.

Hobbins has had surgery, chemotherapy and ra-
diation to treat her disease. Yet she is well aware that

when their quality of life amounts to nothing. Gov

emment should not be in the business of coercing u :
to preserve life at all costs. That is cruelty masquer

viding sufficient drugs to
reduce his pain. “My doc-
tors will have to wonder if
they will be prosecuted for
taking a certain course of
action that could conceiv-
ably lead to my death,”

the medical profession may not be able to control the
unbearable pain. She has
said, “I fight, I cry and I
work at it, but when the time
comes and disease has got
me and there isn7 t an-ything. ..
- more I or -'anyo‘ri'e«’else T carti
do, I want to have all options
available to me — including

assisted suicide.”

Kenneth Shapiro, the
other plaintiff, has suffered
from malignant melanoma
since 1982. Since then he has undergone over forty
surgeries. Many of his treatments have been classified
as experimental and therefore risky. Shapiro fears the
assisted suicide law will
make doctors afraid of pro-

ading as moral policy.

In Cruzan v. Director, the Supreme Con I
grounded the legal basis for the right to die '3 th
Fourteenth Amendment’s guarantee of liberty. Th 2
Court said: “The principle that a competent perso
hasa: cniistitutionally protected liberty, interest ,i .
Jefusing unwanted.-‘medical-treatment maybe in

ferred from our prior decisions.” ,_
Opponents claim that if the courts allow assiste -

suicide, euthanasia will be next. This fear is ugwar

death.

Every competent individual
should be entitled to make the
personal decision to end their
suffering and hasten their own

ranted. There is a clear difference between th
conscious choice of a competent adult and th
mercy killing of an incompetent invalid.
Instead of criminalizing physician assisted sui

cides, the government should regulate them. Legis-
latures should establish procedural safeguard

against abuse dt
assure that the re
quest for physician
assisted suicide is th -
voluntaiy and full
informed product 0
the patient’sown fr s *
will. Lawmaker
should also Qter

Competent adults like Teresa Hobbins and Ken-
neth Shapiro should be free to hasten their own deaths

mine what type of Ii
censed physicia

should be permitted to provide the assistance.
People should not have to fear a prolonged an as
painful death. Government should respect the dig-

nity, privacy and personal freedom of competen

suicide.

adults even when they choose a physician-astiste ‘

How to beat Lexington’s car tax _

it’s that time of year again! Students
everywhere are anticipating the arrival
of the dreaded car tax. If you haven’t
received yours, don’t celebrate quite
yet. The local postal service is prob-
ably performing up to its typically high
standards, and you will get it soon
enough.

For underclassmen who didn’t wit-
ness the threatened boycott of Lexing-

to pay in property taxes if it weren’t
exempt, then gives that amount to the
city as a gift. In some years, the school
donates even more. We should also
remember the tens of thousands of dol-
lars we pour into the local economy
annually through sales taxes. Any rea-
sonable examination of the issue will
find that students pay more than their
share. Nevertheless, the city insists on

 

ton businesses lining its
and the angry coffers with
discussions car tax
with City Hall, money.

the car tax may RYAN As taxes
seem partand D go, this one
parcel of an ENNARD9 sets new
out-of-state 994 standards in
education. It is A inequity.
useful there- Students
fore to first in- who pay
form—and to property

review for upperclassmen — why the
enforcement of the car tax is so egre-
gious.

The city derives much of its revenue
from property taxes. Because Wash-
ington and Lee occupies large amounts
of valuable property within the city
limits, and because its status as an
educational institution makes the uni-
versity exempt from property taxes,
the city says that it is put in a difficult
situation. The presence of the univer-
sity limits the city’s major source of

* revenue. Since it is the university which

causes the problem, Lexington ﬁgures
the logical course is to tax the students.
Hence, the car tax.

But this reasoning overlooks one
important fact. Every year the Univer-
sity calculates how much it would have

taxes on their cars in their home states
are exempt. Students who don’t pay
such taxes at home must pay them here.
This may seem fair at first glance, but
it isn’t. Car taxes presumably go to pay
for roads and the like. But states with-
out car taxes, such as Texas, still have
roads. They just pay for them in other
ways, perhaps with higher license and
registration fees or higher sales taxes.
A Texas resident pays as much for
roads as does someone from North
Carolina. The North Carolina resident
just happens to provide that funding
through a car tax and is, as luck would
have it, exempt from the Lexington
tax. The levy is biased in favor of
people from states with property taxes
on cars.

The tax may also be unconstitu-

tional. In addition to the obvious objec-
tions (taxation without representation
and all that), the tax may constitute a
restriction on interstate commerce. It
may also involve the taxing of one state
by another. These are serious prob-
lems, but the potential cost of testing
the law in court is so high that no one is
likely to attempt it. The other approach
— having the law repealed by the state
legislature —' came up short a couple
years ago, when W&L’s characteristi-
cally apathetic student body failed to
convey its opinion to the committee
considering the matter. Now, it seems
that we all just have to do our best to
live with the situation.

On the bright side, living with the
situation may not require paying the
tax. The state law under which the city
car tax operates has a loophole, and

and they plan to transfer the title to yo
sometime before the school year be
gins. If they transfer the title after Jul
1st, you will avoid the tax. Suppose th A
title is transferred on the first of Au
gust, and you receive a car ta; bil
sometime in November. You woul
simply call the city treasurer’s offic
and inform them that you did not 0
the car on July 1st; your parents did
Can they tax your parents? No, sinc
they currently do not own the property.
By transferring ownership of on
car sometime after July 1st, you avoi -
the tax. Nextyear, youasthe ownerca
transfer the title of your car back to -
parent. While such a transfer does in
volve some paperwork and a fee (whic l
varies from state to state, but is gener
ally in the $50 range), the cost will
certainly be less than paying thatax

with a little Duringyourfoui
money and in- years at‘W&
convenience, —----—-——?- you can simply
you too can use Any reasonable transfer'-Vowner-
‘”° 3’°“““""‘"' examination of the issue 5“? °f?‘‘‘'»‘° °‘“
tage. _ back and fort
The car tax is W!“ find that students betweenyoian
based on a “fis- a m if your parents.
cal year,” which p y ore than the The -‘city has

means that, for
the purposes of
the tax, the year
starts on July 1st

and ends on June money.

share. Nevertheless, the
city insists on lining its
coffers with car tax

to be aware 0
this loophole,
but there’s not
much they can
do aboutt it.

30th.Tliecartax
only applies to

property owned at the beginning of the
ﬁscal year. For example, if you bought
a car on July 2nd, that property is not
subject to this year’s tax. Suppose,
then, that your parents own your car,

Eliminating this
option would re-
quire a change in the state law, and

that’s not going to happen any time

soon. So go ahead and avoid the dreaded
car tax. Give your car to your parents,
and beat the city at its own game.

 

    
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

O

' 1}EAM LAND
’  ‘ :Richard Weaver

Now if you are like me (which is
ighly unlikely) you turn to the pages
“ f The Rockbridge Weekly newspaper
' o r qttertainment. I am always excited
hen I receive my copy in the mail

ery Wednesday. It means it is time to
eel the pulse of Rockbridge County
:2 nd see if the towns of Lexington,
niuena Vista, Glasgow, Goshen, Natu-
tal Bridge, Raphine, Fairfield,
es vius, and Steeles Tavern are still
so ing.
Raphine? Vesuvius? What? I didn’t
c ven know these places existed. Where
2 e all of the Raphians and Vesuvians?
' never see them around. Are they hid-

ng? Until I see conclusive proof, I am
maintaining the position that someone
is nﬁking them up.

Anyway, The Rockbridge Weekly
provides all kinds of information that
we at The Ring-tum Phi, frankly, don’t
have the guts to print. For example, I
admit we have totally glossed over the
campaign of B. Eli Fishpaw for the seat
of scpervisor of Buffalo District.

In the Oct. 27 issue of The
Rockbridge Weekly, candidate Fishpaw
had quite a show of support on the
editorial page with letters under such
headlines as “Fishpaw livens debate
with bold new ideas,” and “Fishpaw
haswision for sustainable future,” not
to mention “A vote for Fishpaw is a
vote for change.” Think of how much
better W&L would be if we all had a
working knowledge of B. Eli Fishpaw.
The Rockbridge Weekly also fea-

Rlng-tum Phi, November 12, 1993

tured a slick ad by Enoch Hager, candi-
date for sheriff of Buena Vista. “My
only campaign promise is I am quali-
tied for the job” was part of the text that
accompanied his picture. Now, as all of
you political analysts out there are now
pointing out to each other, in terms of
campaign promises, Enoch has made a
doozy. Forget no new taxes; this man
promises that he is
qualified. One can
only speculate as to
the amount of po-
litical action com-
mittee dollars that
went towards for-
mulating Enoch’s.
campaign slogan:
“It’s Time For A
Change.”

Now we get to
my favorite part of
The Rockbridge
Weekly: “The
R o c k b r i d g e
Traveler”column
Here, read this:

Word is thatRi-
chardLewis, of the _
Bank of
Rockbridge, has
purchased an inter-
esting gift for his
wife in celebration of their 10th anni-
versary: a rototiller. Now that ’s what!
like, a man who knows how to keep a
wife busy. I buy those kinds of gifts for
my wife too - you know, the kind that]
can use as much as she will (this not
being one such example)...

This leads me to my theory as to
why the name of the author of “The
Rockbridge Traveler” is not listed: Ri-
chard Lewis, of the Bank of

    

PhoIooourutIyolBuunVIutaA-oolludwnn.

549 pounds of party fun.

LETTERS

Rockbridge, and his wife might take
their new rototiller and use it to send
“the Traveler” on a trip to Stonewall
Jackson Memorial Hospital. This is
assuming, of course, that the Lewises
would not be really pleased with hav-
ing their names associated with anni-
versary gift rototillers in The
Rockbridge Weekly. I could be wrong.

We alsoleam in
“The Rockbridge
Traveler” of a 549
pound stuffed
black bear which
was on display at
the Lexington True
Value Hardware
store. The bear,
which is the 1991
Virginia State
Champion (of
what, the column
does not say), has
now moved to the
Buena Vista Ace
Hardware store. I
assume this ispart
of some new
stuffed bear pro-
motional tour, and
Iwould like to sug-
gest to the tour
managers that they
rent the bear out for special events at
W&L. Think of the possibilities for a
549 pound bear on this campus:

1) Use it for an Alaskan Wildlife
Night themed dinner at the Letitia Pate
Evans Dining Hall (Letitia! Letitia!
Letitial). '

2) Put the bear on a leash and attach
it to the statue of Old George on top of
Washington Hall.

3) Place the bear in the Registrar’s

I’ eel the pulse of Rockbridge

PAGE 9

Office so that it can be rude and scare
away students who want to ask ques-
tions about their schedules.

4) Position the bear in the middle of
Red Square and see which fraternity
would be first in having its pledges
dress the bear in women’s clothing.

Speaking of bears, and continuing
with “The Rockbridge Traveler,” we
learn that Tommy Slusser, on his way
back from dinner at Shoney’s, hit a 297
pound bear with his car. The Traveler
notes that Slusser’s family “owns
Nicely Funeral Home in [Clifton Forge]
— the company does not, repeat, does
not have a taxidermy subsidiary.”

What? Anyway, if you need more

information on taxidermy, you need

look no further than The Rockbridge
Weekly’s Hunting Edition special in-_
sert, and thumb through it until you
reach the article, “Local Taxidermies
Offer Tips for Preserving Kills.” David
Grimes offers such advice as “ NEVER
haul animal around on hood of car. The
heat from engine will cause hair slip-
page.” Now, I DON’T want to see any
W&L students violating this tip. W&L
Security might have to get involved in
enforcement, such as in this scenario:

JOE SECURITY OFFICER:
Well, would you look at this, that Tom
Hespos has left another dead antelope
tied the hood of his yellow VW. Shall
we tow it away?

BOB SECURITY OFFICER:
Tow the antelope or the VW?

JOE SECURITY OFFICER: The
antelope.

For the money The Rockbridge
Weekly is a good read (it’s free by
direct mail). I highly recommend you
pick it up every week. And remember,
hair slippage is the enemy.

: Racial columns have ‘become tiresome

Tothe editor:

I am writing in response to the ﬁve “My View”
columns Michael Hewlett has written in the eight
weeks since school began. Although I firmly respect
the right of every member of the university to express
his own views freely, I question both the quality of
Mr..Hewlett’s arguments and the motivation behind

hiwlvritings.

Each of Mr. Hewlett’s five columns has addressed
some aspect of America’s race problems. However,
3‘ each has also played moreto grandiosity and histrion-_._,~ ‘.-
:'ics'than"’to well-thought? out intelligent arguments. It ~
seems he manages to mention the castration of black ‘
' slaves in every article. I am almost surprised he has
noﬁaffixed the initials “FMC” (Free Man of Color) to
II his name as proud ex-slaves did following the Civil
War - or, that I might fit Mr. Hewlett’s stereotype, let
me call that “The War of Northern Aggression.”
To provide an example of this sort of confused
thinking, in his piece on the importance of black
r history, Mr. Hewlett makes the claim that the lives of

3

’ To the editor:
_. My letter is a few weeks late, but
 only because the Phi was sent to my
; pﬁents in Florida, who then sent it to
. me in New York. Forgive my tardi-
3; ness. I am writing in response to Ryan
Dennard’s Oct. 1 opinion column in
V which he suggested we “address the
poor individually.”
Personally, I am very grateful that
~ h hared “Joshua’s” story and posed

the questions that are often so hard to .

answer, but yet are inevitable ones for
anyone to ask who has had a personal
encounter with the poor.

Fannie Lou Hamer, Dorothy Height, and Ella
Baker are just as “American” (Yes, they were born
in America. . .) as Jefferson, Washington, or Madi-
son, and as such also deserve time in American
history classes. Mr. Hewlett, I will admit to being
an ignorant cracker, as I do not know those three
illustrious ladies; nevertheless, I have a difficult
time imagining their contributions on the same
level as the Founding Fathers.

Or consider his article on the sins of the politi-
cally incorrect. Although he says he has “nothing
aglainstvthe-free discourse of ideas,” two ,sentences, 

later he states that “the bottom line is even ina free"
society people should not tolerate racial or sexual
intolerance.” So which is it, Mr. Hewlett? Are
people allowed to believe in the superiority of one
race or not? All beliefs deserve protection in a free
society, and it hardly seems fair to exclude the
racists from this free speech clique. I mean, al-
though, what they believe may seem reprehensible
and incredible, at one time the concept of a round

It is easy to condemn the poor as a
collective group, for we often unjusti-
ﬁably see them as inherently lazy, ex-
pecting everyone but themselves to do
the dirty work of getting them back on
their feet.

It is easy to see the poor in this light,
but only until we have our own per-
sonal encounter with a living, breath-
ing, and vital human being who just so
happens to be poor.

Right now I am living in a homeless
shelter in a suburb outside of the Bronx
in New York. I have come to know
many women already since I began my

“we  

volunteer work here in September and
have learned a tremendous amount
about the homeless poor.

Many have made bad decisions in
their past, but many of them were made
not out of malice, but honestly out of
ignorance. Many grew up in environ-
ments neither you nor 1 could even
begin to imagine, and dare I say that all
but one I’ve met is willing to make a
clean start.

Most admit to their bad decisions.
Most wish not to be in the predicament
they’re in, living in a shelter depending
on others for basic needs, and all want

T Interviews and Photos
. By Joe Framptom

I

w&L_“is hardly intlt't1’—flrr1,iJ,d§{,€)f';%il_’r
think his point has been made, or, rather, it was well
enough made three columns ago, and has been burnt in
the oven now. For someone who describes himself as
“an aspiring journalist,” if whatever he has to say
hasn’t been said in five columns, he should take a break
and rethink his output.

Kirk Susong, ’

TALKBACK

 

earth was considered heretical and amazing. We must
give all points of view the chance to be heard.

At any rate, I do not mean to list all of Mr. Hewlett’s
mistakes and attack them one by one. He writes nicely
and seems to attempt balanced articles. In fact, I agree
with him to a large extent. What is really mystifying,
after having read all five of his columns, is his reason
for writing them. They all revolve around, as Mr.
Nicholas Waddy wrote a few weeks ago, the “sins of
the honkies.” One would think there is a finite number
of articles he could force, upqnpus befpre_realiz,ing,th,at

:»3‘. ’ 3
ace

ll‘l

96

t . Dennard’s column rings true at shelter

a second chance. I admire their stead-
fastness. Most importantly they have
accepted their poverty and are reminded
almost daily that they may be home-
less, but are not helpless. Few need
reminding.

Thanks to Ryan for the story he
shared. May we all truly come to ac-
cept poverty as a reality and under-
stand that the poor are not those who
deserve the least, but those who need.
the most. *

Sincerely,
Stephanie Sauers, ’93

.,r‘°3féTsi»°€;7%ifii31 f

Pre-Law

The Pre-Law Society will meet
in Classroom A of Lewis Hall at 6
p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 17, with
Susan Palmer, Assistant Dean for
Admissions, W&L School of Law,
and with members of Phi Alpha
Delta legal fraternity, for an infor-
mal pizza supper. Dean Palmer will
discuss the law school admissions
process and will respond to student
questions on that subject. All under-
graduate students considering law
school after graduation are invited
to attend. For further information,
contact Professor Lewis G. John,
Pre-Law Adviser, or -Tom Cryan,
President of the Pre-Law Society.

Internships

There will be a workshop on
“Intemships: How to Apply” on
Thursday, Nov. 17, 1993 at 4 p.m.
in Room 109 of the University Cen-
ter. All students are welcome.

SLAC

SLAC interview selections
should be available by Friday, Nov.
19. Check with the Career Devel-
opment Ofﬁce before you leave for
break to see if you have won inter-
views at any of the job fairs.

Career Test

There will be a Career Test Inter-
pretation on Thursday, Nov. 18,
1993 at 3 p.m. in Room 109 of the
University Center. All students who
have taken the career tests but have
not had their results interpreted are
encouraged to attend this session.

Health

Join the Health Education Com-
. , mittee in the Women’s Center every

_ . health issues or. call Alex Miles at
464-8783 with your questions and
suggestions.

 

Thursday 'at 6:30 p1rn'. to ‘discuss -

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

El Mariachi

The Film Society is pleased to
announce its next presentation will
be the quirky and action-packed El
Mariachi (USA, 1993), directed by
Richard Rodriguez. Showings will
be at 8:05 p.m. tonight and tomor-
row in the Troubadour Cinema.
There is no charge for admission.
This ﬁlm is in Spanish with English
subtitles. V

Democrats

The College Democrats will
hold elections on Sunday, Nov. 14,
1993 at 7:30 p.m. in the University
Center game room. Dues will be
collected. Any questions, call Karly
Jennings at 464-8492.

Basketball

Men’s basketball is looking for
managers. Call Coach Bill Raleigh
at 462-8691 for more information.

Study break

You’re invited to the Gaines I-Iall
study break/open house from 8:30-
9:30 p.m. on Sunday, Nov. 14. It
will take place on the first ﬂoor of
the gatehouse. There will be free
food. All freshmen and anyone else
interested are invited.

Calyx

Calyx photos will be taken next
week in Reid Hall. Freshmen: Tues-
day, Nov. 16. Sophomores, Nov.
17, and Juniors: Thursday, Nov.
18. Picture fees can be charged
home.

Mock Con

Information session for the 1996
Mock Convention will be held
Wednesday, NOV. 17, at 7:30 p.m.
in Reid Hall, room 203. Applica-
tions rat‘ th'e"Tri-Ch‘a“rim"an will be
available and are due on Friday,
Nov. 19.

Class agent finds
improvement in Phi

To the editor:

As a Class Agent, I have had a sense

of obligation to wade through TheRing-
tum Phi on a weekly basis. I am always
looking for interesting pieces on cam-
pus life that I might pirate for quarterly
class newsletters. Until this year, this
has been a laborious task.

However, I am pleased to say that
the school paper is now not only an
object of labor for me. I can surpris-
ingly assert that the Phi has become a

pleasure to read from week to week.
The copy is well formatted and the
articles carry abit of weight, with sound
writing to back them up. In addition,
you have clearly made substantial
strides in attracting new advertising
dollars. All in all, an excellent bit of
work.

Congratulations on your efforts,
Best Wishes,
Brooks Pettus, ’90

   ‘ What is the best class you’ve ever taken at Washington
  and Lee and Why did you like it?

I
Marguerite Nielsen, ’94, Nashville,
Tenn. —- “Tax Accounting because it
met at8o’clock on Tuesday and Thurs-
day.”

 

 

Ron Niebo, ’96, East Windsor, NJ.
— “Geology 101 because Kozak is
the man.”

Clyx photo
Jackie Van Vliet, ’95, London, En-
gland — “African-American politics
because the teacher and I share such
similar views.”

     

Wright Marshall, ’95, Grifﬁn, Ga.
— “Chem 100 because it was the

easiest.”

 

Felicia Middleton, ’94, Charleston,
S.C. — “Physics 15 1 because the pro-

fessor brought us Dunkin’ Donuts.”

David Lupo, ’96, Kinnelon, NJ. -
“Theories in Quantum Physics because

it was different.”

 

    

PAGE 10

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, November 12, 1993

  

0

EC heads responds to letter in W&L Law News

To the editor:
On Oct. 4, 1993, the Executive Com-
mittee discussed and voted upon the
budget for the Student Bar Associa-
tion. This meeting lasted well over two
hours and at its conclusion it was re-
solved that the SBA budget would be
set at $40,000, $5,000 less than the
amount approved at the initial budget
hearings. A few days later The Law
News printed a letter from Staci Stone
(’95L) in which she criticized Kevin
Webb, the Second Year Law Rep to the
EC, for his part in the budget process.
Several members of the EC questioned
the accuracy and veracity of her allega-
tions, and responded with letters of
their own to The Law News. Due to
space limitations The Law News did
not print these letters in its latest issue.
Because we do not wish to have Ms.
Stone’s charges go unanswered, we
have submitted our letters along with a
copy of Ms. Stone’s letter to The Ring-
tum Phi.

Sincerely,

Bob Tompkins, ’94L
Jimmy Kull, ’94
James Rambeau, ’94L

To the editor:

This letter was submitted to the Law
News three weeks ago, but because of
space limitations, it was not published.
It is a response to a letter to the editor
concerning the EC budget hearings —
specifically, Student Bar Association
(SBA) cuts. q

Ms. Staci Stone, a second year law
student, unfairly accused Kevin Webb
(2nd Year EC Law Rep) of compro-

There’s more to black people than basketball

But then I remember that girl in my senior

mising “his constituents’ interests for
personal political aspirations” by vot-
ing for a budget compromise which
reduced SBA funding by $5,000. I
wanted to offer my observations of the
night of Oct. 4, 1993, since Ms. Stone
was not present at that meeting (or any
of our budget hearings).

First, I would like to dispute Ms.
Stone’s allegation that Kevin ignored
his constituents’ interests in an effort to
woo potential undergrad voters. I know
nothing of Kevin’s future political
plans, but I do know that he was critical
in forming the eventual compromise —
which was, in my opinion, generous to
the law school.

I originally proposed to cut the SBA
budget by an additional $11,000, and I
provided detailed explanations to jus-
tify the cuts. Kevin managed to con-
vince an Executive Committee (with a
two-thirds undergraduate majority), to
reconsider the proposal in light of the
law school’s allocation last year. His
argument worked.

Second, it is a bit presumptuous for
Ms. Stone to demean the worth of
Kevin’s service to the law school —
especially when she has never attended
one of our meetings. I, however, have
worked with Kevin for over a year, and
I can promise you that he is an excel-
lent representative. It is unfortunate
that Ms. Stone appreciates neither the
countless hours Kevin invests in this
committee nor the benefits that accrue
to the entire school from his diligence.

Despite the fact that my attempt to
reduce the SBA’s budget by an addi-
tional $1 1,000 failed (mostly due to the

arguments of Kevin Webb and Bob
Tompkins — not Patty McNemey as

Ms. Stone suggests), I do not harbor
contempt toward the mostly under-
graduate committee for not agreeing
with me. I would never be so bold as to
say (as Ms. Stone accused Kevin) that
the undergraduate members were poor
representatives because they did not
vote for the plan which attempted to
bring a greater degree of equity to the
budget process.

Kevin Webb deserves more respect
than Ms. Stone grants him. Contrary to
her ill-informed opinions, I can assure
you that the members of the second law
class and the entire W&L community
are beingserved by an excellent repre-
sentative in Kevin Webb.

James F. Kull, ’94

To the editor:

I write in response to the letter sub-
mitted by Staci Stone and published in
the last issue of the W&L Law News.

Apparently she has no concept of
the issues surrounding the budgeting
of the Student Activities Fund, much
less what transpired at our meeting

Oct. 4. This is not surprising consider- ‘

ing that Ms. Stone did not bother to
attend the meeting, or make any effort
to obtain an impartial account of what
took place.

It is not Ms. Stone’s opinion on
these issues, no matter how = ill-in-
formed, that troubles me. It is her un-
founded personal attack on her Execu-
tive Committee Representative, Kevin
Webb, that I find offensive. Kevin was
a strong and effective advocate for the
SBA during our Oct. 4 meeting. In the
course of that two-and-a-half hour ses-

sion it became apparent that the $45,000
allocation voted upon tend days prior
would not pass a second vote. Vice
President Jimmy Kull had proposed a
reduction of this sum by $13,000, sup-
ported by extensive documentation
which suggested the amount should be
reduced even further. Kevin presented
a compromise which won the support
of a majority of the Committee, includ-
ing the other three law students.
Through his motion and supporting
arguments, Kevin kept the SBA bud-
get from being reduced by an even
larger sum. Tosuggest that he “com-
promised his constituents’ interests for
personal political aspirations” is in-
credible indeed. His actions were mo-
tivated by astute perception of the situ-

ation and an interest in an equitable _

solution.

Kevin and all the other members of
the Executive Committee devote a great
deal of time and energy to the effective
and responsible administration of stu-
dent government at Washington and
Lee. It is a pleasure to serve with a
group of people willing to sacrifice so
much of their personal time for the sole
interest of bettering this institution.
Little irks me more than an insolent
slur directed at any one of them and
supported only by slothful researching
of the facts. Ms. Stone’s injudicious
comments are unbecoming of any stu-
dent who has earned the right to attend
Washington and Lee.

Sincerely,
Bob Tompkins, ’90, ’94L

' President, Executive Committee of the
Student Body '

Stone calls Webb 4
on carpet

To the editor:

I am writing about the ﬁasco at
Monday’s Executive Committee
budget hearing. I call it a ﬁasco for
two reasons: first, the Student Bar
Association was allotted $5,000 less
than last year’s allotment, and sec-
ond, some of the law school’s EC
representatives actually assisted in
cutting the SBA budget.

Apparently, the undergraduates
believe that they deserve part of
each law student’s fees to provide
campus-wide activities, organiza-
tions, and services. They refuse to
acknowledge the fact that law stu-
dents’ and undergraduates’ inter-
ests seldom coincide. The campus
organizations now receiving our fees
exist only on one side of the creek.
The law school also has its own
newspaper, yearbook, and clubs. In
fact, the only organization that has
managed to bridge the gap is the
ACLU, which the EC refuses to
fund. In any event, the EC’s deci-

sion about the SBA budget is final,
and I am arguing basically a moot
point.

The real problem with the hear-
ing was the representation that the
law students received, or, more im-
portantly, did not receive. I com-
mend Patti McNemey, Ben Kalny,
Keith Benedict, and James Rambeau
for their efforts to represent effec-
tively the law school. Much less
deserving of praise is Bob
Tompkins, EC president, and Kevin
Webb, EC representative for the
second-year class. These two EC

Letter reprinted from The W&L  News.

members must have forgotten that
they are LAW students. In the hear-
ing, neither of them argued by keep-
ing the amount that the EC allotted
to the SBA last year, or any amount
close to it. Instead, they made a
motion to allot $5,000 less than the
$45,000 that the EC had agreed upon
last week. Granted, Bob probably
had j ustification for his actions since
he was elected by the entire univer-
sity and should represent interests
of both the undergraduates and the
law students.

Kevin has no such excuse for his
actions. Although he was very in-
strumental in the SBA budget’s ap- ‘
proval last year, this year he decided
to opt for what he may call “diplo-
macy” rather than to assist the other
law school EC representatives. It
seems that Kevin has compromised
his constituents’ interests for per-
sonal political aspirations. as a sec- 0
ond—year, I am appalled by such
“representation” of my class. I voted
for Kevin because he went to Wash-
ington and Lee as an undergraduate.

I ﬁgured that, as result, he could
understand better the EC and, there-
fore, represent the law school’s best .
interests. I guess that I was right in
one respect: Kevin does know how
to manipulate the EC— for his own
beneﬁt.

I hope that law students will think
about what effective representation
means when they vote in the spring. .

Staci L. Stone, ’95L

   
   
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
    
    
  
  
  
    
    
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
  

 
  
 
 
      
   
  
   
  

MY VIEW
Michael Hewlett, ’96

I remember the day I woke up. I had been
asleep for a long time. Up until that time, racism
had never been real to me. It had been real to my
grandmother and my mother, but Iwas too busy
snoring. Then, like a brick thrown to the head,
I was rudely awakened. It occurred during my
senior year of high school. I remember, waiting
with a mixture of patience and anxiety for
psychology class to end. Out of boredom, I
began to ball up paper and shoot for the trash
can. Oftentimes, I missed.

It never bothered me. I knew very well that
I was no Michael Jordan. Or Magic Johnson. Or
even Larry Bird. When I missed my third or
fourth shot, a white girl in the class said, “You
can’t play basketball. You’re not a real black

man.” I looked at her for a minute, unable to
believe she had said that. After a while, I said
something like, “Is that all you think black
people are capable of doing: singing and slam-
ming a basketball.”

How could she say something like that to
me? Doesn’t she know black people who don’t
play basketball well? But more disturbing than
what she said was the fact that she believed it.
She didn’t think she was racist. Unfortunately,
the only thing she knew about blacks was
Michael Jordan. She bought into the myth, the
myth of the natural superiority of black ath-
letes.

It shocked me. Even though I had heard
things like that before, it never hit me like it hit
me that day. After all this time, I realized that I
had lived in a vacuum. Racism had always been
something that happened to other people — not
me. I had discovered something that James
Baldwin had discovered a long time ago-“the
price of the ticket.” The price of being black in

America today.

And what is the price of being black in
America today? It means forever being re-
duced to second class citizenship. It means

forever being
judged for what

up in the morning cursing God because I am
black. I am proud to be black. I think it is truly
remarkable that Frederick Douglas and Booker
T. Washington could learn to read at a time
when it was a crime
for a slave to learn. I
think it is remarkable

otherblacks have
done. It means
having statistics
of black males
placed on your
shoulder. It
means having to
almost constantly
refute silly ste-
reotypes about
black sexuality
and athletic abil-
ity that seem to
be rooted in this society. It means trying to not
scare people or come off as another Malcolm X.

Please don’t get the wrong idea. I do not get

done.

What is the price of being
black in America today? It
means forever being reduced
to second class citizenship. It
means forever being judged
for what other blacks have

that a people who were
enslaved could sur-
vive and triumph dur-
ing a time when they
were thought of as
human chattel.
Malcolm X, Marcus
Garvey, Martin Luther

Hurston, Dorothy
Height, Nikki
Giovanni and many
others. These are the people who make me
proud to be black, proud to be a part of a great
and magnificent race.

E. Nelson St., Lexington

   

HARDWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

463-2186

IIIIIIIZIZIIIIZIIIZZZZIIIZZII

ER&S Country Crafts Craft Supplies
For the crafter and finished crafts for the craft lover.
We feature:

S ’I'I5NC I L gag‘

7 I“ by Delta

261-7441

l

  
  

4

l.

r
l

  

Americana, and other name brand craft suppliers.

“How To” Books for Craft projects
376 E. 29th Street, Buena Vista

Hours: M-Th. 2-6, Fri 2-8, Sat. 10-8, Sun. 1-6

IIIIIZIIIIIIIIIIZIIIIIZZIZIII

., Black Bean Burrito /
 Shrimp Enchilada / Chicken
E Burrito / Chicken Tostada
All dinners $5.49

 
 
 
 

 S Restaurant

at 1.8!: 1!! Truck Stop

   
  

 BREAKFAST

A BUFFET

Friday & Saturday Nights
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

   

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

 

463-3478

'0

King, Jr., Zora Neale .

year, and I am jerked back into reality. I am
black. Although things are much better than 30
years ago, Istill live in a racist society, a society
that would rather exclude me than include me.
A society that would want me to assimilate and
become “white” instead of retaining my black
identity. A society that continues to marginalize
blacks to the ever present glass ceiling. A
society that refuses to see me and makes 00
effort to try to understand black culture, black
history, or black people.
What that girl said is emblematic of a much
greater problem. Too many people still cling to
their outdated myths of black people. Until
Americans begin to let go of these insulting

myths, racism will continue to spread lik9a _

disease, infecting and destroying everything in
its path. It is time to look deeply within our-
selves and purge the hate and the lies out. It’s
time to wake up. We have been sleeping for
much too long.

 

SHEAR llmlllﬁ

Hair Salon .

Perm Sale $32

(longer hair additional) 8

17 S. Randolph Street

Party Picture Photographers Needed

Must have own 35 mm equipment & car

   
 
   

SANDWICH SHOP

464-1145

463-2595

I

‘P)ecoﬂrt_ 5
Dimensions 5
E

5

Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6 I

 

Ruley Bros. playing on Friday, Nov. 12
(Bluegrass Music) 9-12 p.m. $2 cover charge#

 

   
 
   

DO YOU ENJOY

SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

Back yard skeet is fun, but compared to Sporting Clays,

it’s boring

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot

to enjoy a round.
Call for a free brochure 463-1800

Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

Horse Boarding 

Excellent turnout with Private
Paddocks. Two miles from the
Virginia Horse Center on 39 West.
Riding lessons with Certified
Instructor. Trails, Flood-lit arena. Call
(703) 463-1636 and leave a message.

   

  
 
 
 
 

 

basketball season,
All compression

shorts $15.00  ,
Price good thru 11/30/93 

First Team Sports
115 W. Nelson St.

 
   
    
   
   

94111’ 9 am 5

In time for

 
 
   
  
 

 
  

    
   
 
 
 

    
  

I hebﬂing-tum Phi, November 12, 1993 4 S

 ~ 1   1 m GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
 A 9» . '    A ,  2 I V. _g _g  Standings as of 11/11/93

 1 S  g_   2  1 " 1 ' Football Statistics as of 11-12
 M  1 S -. 4 - Offense

Rushing: Att. ‘Yards .Y/Att. TD Kickoff Returns:
. V Mason 190 823 4.1 8 Urban 14 247 17.6 26
!QuAuTY AND'vAR|EATY.y A 2   ~~ U lI\:<S):re 75 339 4.4 1 Manternach 11 172 15.5 23
1 . .   _.    A. phson 26 125 4.8 0 Josephson 4 86 21.5 23
GQLDEN DELIGHT ’-gr"? .5. ‘J’ .3.    ’ Buckner 3 43 14.3 17
  Passing: Att. Comp. Int. Yds TD Visokey 1 11 11.0 11
. .. Fischer 144 68 11 837 8 .
Reedy 37 17 5 148 0 Scoring: TD. Extr.Pt FG Tot.
_  V .  Mason 10 1 0 62 ‘
'.53')§0""N‘,l_E V , A_ . ‘A Thomas 0 13 5 28
i11='zcHAs1s 6   _ _ Receiving: Recept. Yds Y/R Y/G TD Moore 2 1 0 14
  - ' '~ .. Moore 24 226 9.4 28.3 1 7 players With6pts
Urban 16 200 12.5 25.0 1
Hodges . 14 235 163 294 1 Punt Returns: Returns Yds Y/R Long
Mason 14 105 7.5 13.1_ 2 Mason 13 98 7.5 16
Kimball 11 161 14.6 20.1 1 Urban 8 43 5.4 12

 * 1 - Malmberg 5 ’ 28 5.6 3.5‘ 0 Josephson 1 27 27 27
. , Player: Tackles Sacks F
“M”, 1 WITH . Player. Tackles Sacks FF FR Newman 53
AD TTONAL Hull 102 10
£0 00 . . Cooper 36
PURCHASE Ph1l11ps 77
 |IIIIIlI|aIuILIBII.II .
. . 2 A u

'1!

5
0
Hogue 65 0
Chartrand 62 1
2
1
1

6. Tweardy 31

O

0

Wagner 34 0
3

Kennedy 24 0
' 0
0
0

Cox 59
Wisdom ' 57

RESH CRANBERRIES . DlE‘l' COKE OR Achee 54 . Kelleter 13
.-‘"0. R      S ‘ Interceptions: Int. Yds Y/R Long

Ball 22
Bradbury 21

cl-TOOOFHIQIQ
OOOIQOL-‘OF-‘;

Newman 2 14 7 9
Ball 2 18 9 18
Kennedy 1 0 0 0

Volleyball

Overall Season Statistics

Player Games Kills
Garrigus 78 107
Taurassi 78 42
Horan 72 86
Hull 76 , 4 .
.1 Bahn 78 140
Burns 77 150
Queen 78 1

EHARRIS 1:111:12... Low iPR|CES_AL|e.>.gAY, EVERY DAY “mg 78 “*4
“ ' ' ' ‘  ' Player Serv Att. ~Serv Acc.%

SWEET RELISH OR £35511-)fNT'5 CHOKE 2/ 99 Queen 1 246 0.951 , .
I M T O L I  DRLNKS 12 PK 12 oz CANS 3"“ 17 0941 womenf Tenms
. --------- -- - - Bahn 259 0938 Women s Cross Country

   1'/;ﬁ1e(rED, Coo1<ED 99 Garrigus 288 0.924  $538 Country

Hull 205 ' 0.917

-  .........................  ....... ..l 2 OZ Taurassi 295 ()_875 W°men’S Soccer

KEEBLER Horan 282 0.858 V°“°yb“”
1'6 oz. FAT FREE ZESTA   2/  1  

 ....... ..l4 OUNCE . Sports rniornent O’ the week___

W %iH1'5i1E§lB1sA Kfﬁycs 18”o%%’eel 499 . 6 1          3 .

‘ SWISS CHEESE .............. ..LB. 1 :. “ ’ 

SELECTED VARlETlES SELECTED VARlETlES
DEL MONTE SALON SELECTTVES
vssgmgus HAIR CARE PRODUCTS

‘  6 4-15 oz.

Player Digs Digs/Game
Garrigus 193 2.5
Bahn 171 2.2
Horan 168 2.3
Taurassi 145 1.9
Burns 107 1.4
Hull 107 1.4
Queen 103 1.3

Trademarks ®

Fall Team Records

l6 -17oz. 

: SELECTED VARIETIES
 m,,,,,mA m1-'1 111111111
1 . ORANGE u11c11 ‘MM ‘"5555

.'“°"  m°O99 

Pricsflie Through Noember 16, I993

. Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum i
- ~ ' N b 10 Th 1 d , N be l6 1993. I Lexington Stores
Prices "'oI.*1‘,'5\/'17.? Egg:/eelréegigildlzylimﬁvggoﬁglies. Néﬁigseliii Bleleiiewe Crsladly AcceplnFedero| Food Stamps. An unidentified Washington and Lee football player having trouble with his balance
' was the photogenic athlete of the week for Nov. 12, 1993.

 

  
 

Last Week:

Hopkins

X-C—Women ﬁrst, Men third at ODAC

F B——W&L 13, Guilford 14
VB—W&L 2, Emory and Henry 3
WP—defeated Trinity, Williams, Johns

3

PAGE 12

    
    
  
   

breaksfﬁse ,
tjo the’6!h.er.;te

’ Aﬁeralt; 

V have eonfere
y players "three
rowand stilt,
a 1-7 record(I-gt
Dominion‘, Athlet;
ferenjce)?,_

‘ For the be

 

  

  
 
     
 

‘ down passes, hr‘: '
season totaltoe __

foraW&__ _
j terback. « ,: f '

  
  
  
    
       
   

 to glut even 
 starved foot

, two if you coun

dent, a hot radiosh,

= WLUR_and seven, _ 

ate’ television, pub! it

, scores on Channel
fan doesn’t it ’

A, pass does notq
' asaboardingp‘ . . C
V _I’Il read aboutit‘irt_thePI:i.

  

(‘Litre ‘ﬁling-mm iﬂlri

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

Water polo successfull defends title

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The key to a successful season for any athletic team lies in how it
responds to pressure. Does the team have what it takes to rise to that
next level and not crack? .

Washington and Lee’s water polo team came through when it
counted down the stretch, both in speciﬁc games, and at the end of the
season.

After an 0-4 weekend recently, the Generals rebounded to win
seven of their last eight games, including six in a row to finish the
year.

Coach Page Remillard was happy with this year’s team

“The team had a lot of character and was very focused,” said
Remillard.

Junior captain Reuben Munger also added that the Generals had
some incredible clutch performances; they won two games this year
in which they trailed by ﬁve and seven goals in the fourth quarter.

The season capping victory came against Johns Hopkins in the
ﬁnals of the Eastern Division III Championships. The 16-11 win
gave the Generals a second straight title.

In the quarter-ﬁnals, W&L beat Trinity 27-2 with every player on
the Washington and Lee team scoring goals. The Generals defeated
Williams 12-10 in the semi’s. ‘

Coach Remillard credited the team’s success this year to outstand-
ing depth. .

Munger agreed.

“Any six guys we put out there could perform,” he said.

 *‘ ‘
as-‘  .

.»  . .. ' "W3" "

Photo by Bethany Smith. The Ring-tum Phi
Washington and Lee running back, senior Tom Mason,

carries the ball in hopes of a winning touchdown in the
Generals’ loss, 13-14, at Wilson Field Nov. 6.

 

Reuben Munger
This depth should make its presence felt next year as well with ten
returning players. With this nucleus to build on, the Generals should
maintain the same caliber of play that led them to a season that
Munger described as having gone “really well.” Munger said that he
expects continued success.

Football oh-so close, fallsto Guilford

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Last call: Air-W&L will be
boarding for Bermuda in one
week. You have one ﬁnal chance
to see the Generals unless you
plan on buying a plane ticket.

Washington and Lee wraps-
up its first three-game home-
stand in 10 years on Saturday
versus an opponent they have not
faced in that same time-span.
Catholic University (1 -8) will try
to be this week’s latest version of
“the Great Tease,” a team W&L
looks considerably better than,
yet for some unforeseen freaks
of nature, cannot beat.

Last week’s 14-13 defeat to
Guilford College was the third in
which the Generals had led go-
ing in to the fourth-quarter, and
their ﬁfth loss by eight points or
fewer. W&L’s 13-0 half-time
lead was overcome by Jeff
Hatch’s two touchdown runs for
the Quakers. The loss leaves
W&L in a fourth place tie in the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence with Guilford and
Bridgewater.

Washington and Lee (1-7)
hopes to end this “tease” with a
win over an old rival Saturday.
The Generals have faced Catho-
lic only three times (1981-83),
but the last meeting was a W&L
classic. The Generals overcame
a 21-14 deﬁcit to win on a touch-
down and a two-point-conver-
sion in the ﬁnal seconds. The
stunning 22-21 Wilson Field win
is considered one of W&L’s all-
time great ﬁnishes.

The schools renew the rivalry
in what has been a difﬁcult year
for both teams, it is almost a
relief that one of them will get a
win on Saturday.

As frustrating a year as 1993
has been for the Generals, Catho-
lic fans—or, rather, fans of Catho-
lic—have watched their team get
trounced week after week. The

Volleyball loss in quarter
ends Generals’ ’98 season

By BILL RUST
Phi Staff Writer

“I thought the season was pretty successful,”
said Bahn. “We had a slow period, but really picked
up in the end.”

The Generals started strong, opening with a
record tying four-match win streak. They fell apart

mid season, losing 11 of 16, and came together in

Last Saturday’s loss in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference quarterﬁnals put an end to the
volleyball team’s impressive, record-breaking sea-
son.

The Wasps of Emory and Henry stunned the
Lady Generals in a hard-fought, ﬁve game match.
Washington and Lee lost the ﬁrst game 11-15, but
came back to win the next two 15-6 and 15-4.

In the end, however, their efforts were not
enough; the Wasps took the ﬁnal two games 15-7
and 15-10.

The match saw four Generals earn 10 or more
kills. Freshman Virginia Yoerg lead the attack
with a season high 12.

She was followed closely by fellow freshman
Elizabeth Bahn, who had 11. Senior Tara Burns
and junior Jennifer Garrigus both added 10.

Sophomore setterCheryl Taurassi lead the team,
as always, in assists with 40.

Taurassi also made a valiant defensive effort
with 21 digs. But it was not enough in the end, and
the Lady Generals best season since 1988 came to

a close. three years.”

the end with a record smashing six-match win
streak that lasted until Saturday’s loss.

Their 15 wins were one short of their all-time
best, and they became only the second team in
W&L volleyball history to ﬁnish over .500.

The Lady Generals’ offense was lead by Burns’
150 kills. Yoerg ( 144) and Bahn (140) also contrib-
uted generously. ' .

Cheryl Taurassi’s 526 assists passed Lisa Jay’s
519 for the single season record, and Kelly Horan»’s
45 aces ﬁnished up the Generals’ attack.

Virginia Yoerg lead the teams defensive efforts
with a record-setting 91 blocks;
Garrigus contributed a team leading 193 digs.

They are a young team, and promise only to get
better. Three stars—Yoerg, Bahn, and Taurassi-
will be back for years to come.

The team’s poor showing in ODAC, however,
can also be attributed to this youth. .

“We will do better next year,” said Bahn. “When
we are better prepared for the playoff
atmosphere...we expect to get better over the next

And Jennifer

Cardinals have been outscored
243-to-82, with more than half
of their points coming in their
lone victory, 44-13 over
Gallaudet. Catholic has been
shutout three times, including
their last two games, and have
scored in double ﬁgures just
twice.

Though few of their loses have
been close, W&L head coach
Gary Fallon sees some similari-
ties between Catholic and his
Generals.

“We’re two young, struggling
teams,” said Fallon. “I think it
ought to be competitive on Sat-
urday.”

It won’t be if the Generals can
play like they did in the ﬁrst-half
versus Guilford. Freshman quar-
terback Brooks Fischer, the third-
ranked QB in ODAC, connected
on 11-of-12 passes and two
touchdowns. Although sopho-
more kicker Drew Thomas’ sec-
ond extra-point attempt was
blocked, the Generals were
staked to a 13-0 half-time lead.

The second-half, though, was
all-Quakers. Aftercompleting his
first pass attempt of the half,
Fischer and his receivers could
not connect on any of the
freshman’s ﬁnal eight. Although
he threw for 154 yards, Fischer
and sophomore Matt Reedy com-
bined for4 interceptions, one with
W&L threatening to score.
Guilford’s Drew Baker became
his schoo1’s all-time interception
leader with a late pick-off. Hatch
gained 140 rushing yards in that
half, after just 39 in the ﬁrst.

The most startling ﬁgure is
that Guilford held W&L to 86
yards rushing, 18 in the ﬁrst 30
minutes. This just a week after
seniors Tom Mason and Wilson
Moore combined for nearly 300
yards on the ground against
Bridgewater.

Mason was selected the Foot-
ball Gazette Division III football
player of the week after he set
three school single- game records

FThis Week:

FB—Catholic, 11/13
X-C—at Regional Champ. 11/ 13
Swim—at Centre 11/ 13 4,
kWrest—at VMI Invitational 11/ 13 ’

   
  
  
    
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
 
   
 
  

NOVEMBER 12, 199

“We should do really well [next year],” he said.
Remillard also said that the team was looking at a stron
recruiting class as well. 0
One of the keys to the General’s success was senior Greg Golub
The depaning senior scored four goals in the weekend triumph ove
Johns Hopkins and was credited by Remillard as being an importan
member of the squad during the course of the year.
Also during the weekend, sophomore Rich Cober threw in nin
goals, comprised of three in each contest. '
Freshman Peter Sorensen had a strong year as well, ﬁnishingavit;
a total of six goals. Sorenson scored two in the Johns Hopkins mate
and four against Trinity in W&L’s near-record drubbing.

The win against Trinity marked the largest margin of victory b
a Washington and Lee team since a 29-3 demolition of University 0
Virginia in 1986-1987. 1

Remillard also credits the team with having tremendous dedica
tion.
“Six out of the 10 returning players got right back in the water fo
swimming,” said the coach.

Remillard said W&L’s winning tradition in the sport (the Gener
als competed successfully against Division I competition befor
making the commitment to Division III) was based on commitment

In a season where, according to Remillard, “all had the same goal
in mind,” the Generals posted one of the most successful recogis 0
all fall sports. '

Plus, with what Remillard called a strong nucleus returning fo
next season, the Washington and Lee water polo team can loo «
forward to a new chapter in its tradition of success.

X-country
wins ODAC

By STEPHEN WILLIAR3
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

versus Bridgewater: rushing
yards (230), rushing touchdowns
(5), and points (32). Mason also
tied the mark for total touch-
downs in a game with his ﬁve TD
carries. Last Saturday, the senior
tri-captain had just 49 yards on
26 rushes.

“Guilford was very strong
versus the run,” Fallon said. “We
just weren’t able to capitalize on
our passing game. That was the
difference out there.”

Nonetheless, W&L still had
its chances after the Quakers took
the lead in the fourth-quarter. An
interception ended one potential
scoring drive. On their next pos-
session, Thomas missed just his
third ﬁeld-goal attempt of the
season. His 31-yard miscue was
the kicker’s ﬁrst miss from in-
side the 45-yard line this year.

W&L had another opportu-
nity in the ﬁnal minute, but could
not move back into ﬁeld-goal
range before turning the ball over
on downs.

The good news forthe Gener-
als is that sophomore Robert Hull
had another strong defensive
outing. After being limited to six
tackles against Bridgewater, the
Lexington native totaled 13 tack-
les and two sacks, tying the W&L
single-season school record for
sacks with 10. Junior Bob
Phillips, who is second to Hull in
tackles, recorded his ﬁrst sack.

on the receiving end, Moore
added four catches to up his team-
leading total to 24. Junior Hayne
Hodges picked up 66 yards re-
ceiving on three grabs, and class-
mate Jon Wagner—a starting
comerback—recorded his ﬁrst re-
ception when he snuck into of-
fense and caught a 27-yarder.

Saturday’s game will mark
the final broadcast of the season
by WLUR. Pre-game will begin
at 1:00 p.m., 30 minutes prior to
kickoff. During the post-game
show, the station will recap the
entire football season with high-
lights from each game.

When you’re hot, you’re
hot.

The Washington and Lee
women’s crosscountry team
defended its title in the Old
Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Championships, led by
sophomore Josephine
Schaeffer, who has yet to
lose a race this year, in a fast
17:36. \

Three other W&L mn-
ners ﬁnished in the top seven;
sophomore Amy Mears and
juniors Kim Herring and Sue
Duetsch.

The men ﬁnished third
overall; four W&L runners
comprised the spots 15ﬂ8
in the final standings.
Sophomore Jeff Zeiger led
the group with sophomores
Tom Fink, Brad Paye, and
senior Brian Shearer close
behind.

Freshmen Sandy Hoo er
and Alvin Townley were just
one spotbehind the pack
rounding out the Generals’
top six. This was the ﬁfth
straight time that W&L has
ﬁnished in the top three at
the ODAC championships
with four straight secdid
place ﬁnishes previously.

This weekend both teams
run in the South/Southeast
regional at Methodist Uni-
versity. The men hope to
continue their successful
season with a standout par-
formance in the meet. The
long hours of work that the
team has put in during the
year are paying off when it
counts. With three sopho-
mores and two freshmen in
the top six, the team has Ila-
son to expect a strong year
next season as well.

        
      

   
   
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

