 
 

   
  

" 0‘-"=»LEYE',» -I 
WASHlNGTON a ti?” UB'qA"”

      

E "“~llVEFa¢‘-t‘: 
A 244.59

 

Two local hatngouts

close: The Bone and
Frank’s Sandwich

Men's 2- 0

Women’s 4 — 0

Generals Swim Teams
Undefeated:

E...

Shoppe

Chi: ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

‘ OLUME 93, NO. 15

 
  
   
 
   
    
  
  
   
    
  

I “ 5 By NANCY PAv1.ovtc
Phi Managing Editor

. The verdict is in and both sides are
-}aiming at least a partial victory.
The President’s Advisory Commit-
ee issued its report on Assistant Pro-
fessﬁ of English Demaree C. Peck’s
J Appeal Friday, Jan. 7, more than three
months after she ﬁled her appeal op-
osing the English department’s deci-
1. ion not to renew her contract.
“We have won an unprecedented
victory, although it is less than I had
anﬂd,” Peck said. “Despite the ques-
ions that remain about due process and
rofessional judgement, this is an im-
ortant step in unpeeling what hap-
erred in the English department.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Craun, however, claimed “the basic
finding was to exonerate the depart-
ment completely from all ﬁndings of
inadequate consideration.”

The committee, as charged by Presi-
dent John D. Wilson, was to determine
whetherornotthe procedures followed
by the English department were ad-
equate. They were not to address issues
of fairness or academic freedom. The
committee’s decision is two-fold; while
claiming the process was not inad-
equate, they also unanimously recom-
mended the English department ex-
plain fully their decision to not renew
Peck’s contract to her.

“The committee was charged to see
if the procedures had been carried
through and not to address questions of
fairness,” said Professor H. Thomas
Williams, Jr., chair of the President’s

Advisory Committee. “The
committee’s decision was not to imply
that something was wrong with the
English department’s decision.”

Copies ofthe committee’s ﬁndings
were sent to Peck and Wilson. To date,
Craun and the English department have
not seen the report.

“We have just been generally in-
formed by the administration of the
general findings of the committee,”
Craun said. “I would like to be free to
comment on it but I just don’t have
enough knowledge. I have been told to
refer all inquiries to the president.”

According to Wilson, the commit-
tee found “that there was no inadequate
consideration” and suggested “the de-
partment consider providing a more
elaborate explanation to Ms. Peek in
the spirit of collegiality.”

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

“The formal inquiry was to deter-
mine whether the provisions in the
decision to evaluate for
reappointment were ad-
equate,” Wilson said.
“The department was not
at fault.”

Peck, who joined the
faculty in 1988 as an in-
structor in English, be-
gan a four-year proba-
tionary period for a ten-
ure track position in the
department thefollowing
fall. Candidates for a ten-
ured position must com-
plete a six-year proba-
tionary period before be-
ing considered for ten-
ure. Peck would have been considered
for tenurein 1994-95.

Wilson

 

However, the English department
decided in May of 1993 to cut short her

probationary period af-
ter reviewing a portfo-
lio of materials which
included student evalu-
ations, reviews by fac-
ulty who had visited her
class, 21 letters which
were solicited by the de-
partment from 111
former students, as well
as three published ar-
ticles and several chap-
ters from her book on
Willa Cather.

“When I was in-
formed of my dismissal
back in May, I asked to

know the reasons why and was told

JANUARY 14, 1994

Committee decides Peck appeal

that ‘We don’t have to tell you any-
thing.’,” Peck said. “If I had been pro-
vided with a satisfactory explanation
for my non-renewal, I could have ac-
cepted it. A university of all places
ought to be a place where reason and
explanations can 've found when asked
for. But the view that such things hap-
pen because ‘ it is just so,’ is not rational
and not worthy of the tradition of honor
at Washington and Lee.

“One of the greatest ironies of this
wholething isthe English department’s
refusal to give me reasons in order to
protect my privacy.”

Peck said the English department
has attempted to “make an issue of my
teaching abilities.” Yet, she said 96

it See PECK page 7

English department head Edwin D.

  

I

   
 

‘TU

Sing us a song

 

Photo by Richard Weaver, The Ring—tum Phi

Sorority Rush week included nights of singing, smiling, and lots of small talk. 173 women signed up to rush
in the fall. Sorority members transformed rooms in the University Center this week with decorations for the
Rush parties. Freshman women will receive bids from a sorority tonight.

SAC to hear FIJI
hazing charges

By E. LEE DAUGHERTY
Phi Contributing Writer

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity has been charged
with violating the university’s hazing policy and
will go before the §_t_u_dent Affairs Committee on
"Friday, January‘ I4. '

According to Dean of Students David Howison,
the charges included in the report are systematic
drinking and physical abuse of pledges.

Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life Dennis
Manning communicated the charges to SAC and
also‘ to the Interfratemity Council which reviewed
the case Tuesday night at a closed meeting.

“My understanding is that [the IFC] took the
report very seriously and handled the case respon-
sibly,” Howison said.

According to Interfratemity Council President
Curt Smith, the IFC heard the case and handed
down a verdict Tuesday night. The IFC verdict
itself will not be disclosed until after the SAC
reviews the case on Friday.

Smith said the IFC will report their actions to
SAC and offer suggestions for action they believe
the committee should take, but said SAC operates
under different rules from those of the IFC. The

IFC verdict is enforceable, regardless of the out-
come of SAC meeting.

Manning’s report was ﬁled on the basis of
information given to him by freshman John K.
“Jay” Taggart, a former FIJI pledge. Taggart him-
self has not filed any charges against the fraternity.

Taggart has declined to comment until the SAC
hearing is over. ,

“We have informed the national fraternity,”
Howison said. “So far they’ve taken no action.”

FIJI President Ralph “Moke” Wolfe said he had
been directed by the IFC to not discuss the case.

The SAC is a committee made up of four faculty
members, six students, and two members of the
administration. Howison said the job of the com-
mittee will be to determine whether the hazing
policy was violated and, if so, what action should
be taken.

Howison said SAC can do one of four things: 1)
put the house on critical probation, 2) suspend the
fraternity for up to ﬁve years, 3) expel the fratemity
from campus, or 4) take no action.

Any action taken by SAC or the IFC can be
appealed. SAC’s decisions are appealable to Presi-
dent John Wilson and IFC appeals are made to the
Dean of Students and heard by the Board of Ap-
peals according to the IFC Constitution.

Whitney dies at 60

Professor noted for dedication

Sophomore charged with theft

tudent claims case of mistaken identity

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee sophomore Mary
I lizibeth Flowers has been charged with
‘hoplifting and is scheduled to appear in
‘ourt on March 29.

Sunday’s Child employee Leslie Hoke

,aid that on December 13, she stopped a
erson leaving the store when the point-
check security system went off. Hoke said
he dtsked to carry the person’s bookbag
hrough the antenna bars in the front of the
tore. The alarm did not sound. Hoke said she
hen ZISl-(C-fl for the person’s coat.

"The person turned away to unzip the
at ket, and said I could ﬁnish helping another
ustomer,” said Hoke. When Hoke refused
rid demanded the coat, the person admitted

 

stealing two packages of glow-in-the-dark
star stickers and a laser-disk spinning top.

“I called my boss and she said to call the
police,” said Hoke. “The individual waited
and said ‘please don’t call the police’.”

Hoke said the person offered to pay for the
items, crying and begging her not to call the
police.

Hoke said during that time the person
said her name and said she was 16 years old.
Shop-owner Lucia Owens said the name given
was Mary Stuart.

Owens arrived in the store shortly after
Hoke phoned her. Hoke went to call the
police while Owens talked to the woman.
While Hoke was on the phone. the woman
fled the store.

Owens chased her, but lost her in the area
of St. Patrick’s Church.

On December 17. police issued a sum-

mons to Flowers charging her with shoplift-
mg.
But Flowers said she is not the woman
who attempted to shoplift from Sunday’s
Child.

Flowers said she was sick that day, and
was in the infirmary waiting to see the doctor
when the incident occurred.

“I was at home in bed,” said Flowers. “My
roommates left the room at 1:30. I talked to
my brother on the phone at 2:30 or 3:00. ”

Flower’s roommate, sophomore Colleen
Thompson, said Flowers was in their Gaines
suite when she returned from herexam around
3:15.

“We waited around to go to the infir-
mary,” said Thompson.

Flowers said she talked to her mother on

U» See THEFT page 4

By PHIL CARROTI‘
Phi Staff Writer

Professor of Chemistry
George S. Whitney, known for

‘ his energy and dedication to his

students and organic chemistry,
died Tuesday evening.

Whitney had been battling
prostate cancer for some time,
but his love for teaching kept him
going until September, when he
made the decision he could no
longer continue teaching.

Junior John Cox, who took
organic chemistry last year, said
“[Whitney] was so excited about
[organic chemistry], even if he
couldn’t stand up for the entire
lecture, he brought energy to it
when you knew he had no physi-

cal energy whatsoever.”

Whitney came to Washing-
ton and Lee in 1962 after receiv-
ing his Ph.D. from Northwestern
University. He became a full pro-
fessor in 1973.

“He was very worried if his
illness might affect how his stu-
dents were taught, he felt that
when he had gotten to the point
where his health was such that he
couldn’t teach as effectively as
he wanted to, he put the interests
of his students first and did what
had to be done,” said Erich
Uffleman, Whitney’s replace-
ment for the year. “It took tre-
mendous courage to teach as long
as he did and tremendous cour-
age to stop when he did.”

The department is now in the
process of hiring a permanent
organic chemistry professor.

Cox added, “I don’t know if

people understand how a class
like organic works  the class
became a family because of the
way it was taught by professor
Whitney. He thoughtorganic was
the neatest thing in the world.”
Whitney taught organic chem-
istry in one form or another since
he came to W&L. “He taught 
the ﬁrst of the chemistry [general

education requirements]. He tried
to reach out to kids that were not
chemists,” said chemistry pro-
fessor Mike Pleva. “He included
organic and the kids who took
that course learned how to make
nylon. It was known as the nylon
class.’’ " .

bsee WHITNEY page 4

Whitney

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World  

Mexican rebellion continues

Indian rebels in Mexico bombed electric towers and shot
up a military base Sunday. The rebels are seeking to further
the rights of Mayan peasants. Four bombs exploded in
Mexico City Saturday. The rebellion began January 1, with
the capture of several towns in South Mexico. Since then,
over 105 people have died, most of them Indian rebels.

Oil spill makes a big mess

An oil barge spilled 750,000 gallons of oil after colliding
with a coral reef last Friday off the coast of San Juan, Puerto
Rico. The barge hit the reef after its towline snapped. Rough
seas have slowed efforts to stem the flow of oil still spilling
from the barge.

Neo-Nazis spread violence

Neo-Nazis in Germany carved a swastika on the face of a
girl in a wheelchair after she refused to repeat fascist slogans
including “Gas the cripples.” The attack has caused a
nationwide manhunt for the suspects. Eighty handicapped
people reported attacks from extremists last year and the year
before. Since 1990, neo-Nazi violence has killed 30 people.

The Nation

Branch Davidian trial begins

A jury was seated Wednesday for the trial of 1 1 survivors
of the Branch Davidian compound near Waco, Texas. The
members will be tried for murdering four agents of the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, which raided the

- compound in February. The defense will try to show that the
cult members acted in self-defense. If convicted, the 1 1
defendants could get life in prison without parole.

 

Scientists to examine radioac-
tivity experiments

A panel of scientists will review government records on
human radioactive experiments to determine if ethical stan-
dards were violated. The Department of Energy has inter-
viewed 4000 people, one—fifth of whom claim to have been
improperly exposed to radiation during experiments begin-
ning in the l940’s.

Last Iwo J ima serviceman dies

The last surviving serviceman shown raising the U.S. ﬂag
on Iwo J ima in the famous World War II photo died Tuesday
of a stroke. John Bradley was 70. He and five other Marines
raised the first American ﬂag to ﬂy over Japanese territory.

The State

Wilder won’t run for Senate

Virginia Gov. Douglas L. Wilder unexpectedly withdrew
from the U.S. Senate race Thursday night. Wilder made the
announcement at the end of his last State of the Common-
wealth address Thursday. Wilder’s withdrawal was a sur-
prise, and means that there will be no November ﬁreworks
between Wilder and his longtime archrival, incumbent Demo-
crat Charles Robb. Oliver North is also contending for the
office.

Bobbitt trial in fourth day

Witnesses at Lorena Bobbitt’s malicious wounding trial
said John Bobbitt liked rough sex and slapped his wife around
in front of others. The defense will try to show that Mr.
Bobbitt subjected his wife to sexual, physical, and mental
abuse for years, prompting her to cut off her husband’s penis
on June 23.

Sports

Harding bodyguard, husband

questioned in Kerrigan attack

The FBI is investigating the husband and bodyguard of
U.S. national figure skating champion Tonya Harding as
suspects in last week’s attack on Nancy Kerrigan, last year’s
champion. FBI agents were pursuing leads in several cities,
but no arrests had been made as of Wednesday afternoon.
Detroit FBI spokesman Hank Glasbie said Wednesday night
that two investigaitons were ongoing. One is in Detroit, the
scene of the attack, and the other is a federal investigation.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker

By THOMAS Hasros
Phi News Editor

The Executive Committee had some suggestions
for the Committee to Review Coeducation at their
regular meeting Monday night.

“If you get the campus leaders together... they’ll
go back and tell their groups what you’re all about,”
said EC President Bob Tompkins to members of the
coeducation committee.

Members of the EC gave suggestions to the presi-
dentially-chartered group about how it might be
more effective at soliciting the opinions of students
about coeducation.

EC Vice President Jimmy Kull and Secretary
Ashby Hackney suggested that the opinions of men’s
groups might help the committee.

“Have you thought of going to the IFC?” asked
Kull.

Coeducation committee member Frankie Jones
said the group is not yet up to that stage.

By YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

To show or not to show.

Late last year, Washington and Lee
students overwhelmingly chose not to
show up for their Calyx pictures.

According to senior Anthony
Catalano, co-editor of the Calyx, less
than a third of all freshmen, sopho-
mores andjuniors attended the picture-
taking sessions despite the many mea-
sures taken to increase the consistently
poor turnout.

“We moved the location from the
University Center to Reid Hall and
advertised extensively hoping that
things would be different,” Catalano
said

“In the past, some students simply
did not want to pay the $15 setting fee
charged by Andres Studios. Now they
could have charged it home,” Catalano
added.

Catalano blames the attitude of the
students for the low turnout. He stated
that many students do not show up
because they think it is not the “cool
thing” to do.

“This is the students’ yearbook, their
history. lt is here so that 20 years from
now they can remember each other and
share their memories with their loved
ones,” he said.

cult.

He also commented that the low
turnout make the staff’s job more diffi-

“I didn’t go because I had a bad hair
day and I knew they would have makeup
days,” said one junior.

According to Catalano, that makeup
day will most likely be February 2.

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

A word to the would be crank-caller—Washing—
ton and Lee’s sophisticated telecommunications
system can now monitor crank calls.

“lt’s not a trace. We can manipulate the [tele-
communications] software,” said Jim Johndrow,
director of university services.

W&L has had a high number of reported crank
calls this term and last, according to Johndrow.
Between eight and 12 people have reported the
calls. I

“We’ve recommended that they (people receiv-
ingthe calls) go tothe police,” said Johndrow. Only
one student has gone to the police so far. After
someone reports to the police, the matter is taken
out of their hands.

The calls have consisted of vulgar language,

'   — 5:55. pm.

EC aids co-ed committee

“Campus life is such a big part... that we haven’t
got around to all of [the campus groups],” said Jones.

The coeducation committee has 12 members:
three students and nine professors and members of
the administration. They are scheduled to report to
the president of the university in August.

Hackney said he was concerned that some of the
professors on the committee who were hired after
coeducation began at Washington & Lee would not
be able to compare the all-male W&L with the co-ed
W&L.

“A lot of these professors (on the committee) are
recent professors,” he said.

Coeducation committee member Daniel Felton
assured Hackney that some of the professors on the
committee were able to provide that perspective.

Junior EC Representative Alex Cross inquired
about the results of attempts by the committee to
solicit opinion through The Ring-tum Phi and The
Trident.

‘‘[It was] not as much as we had hoped,” said
Felton.

Calyx turnout lower than ‘9, 1

Calyx editors Sarah Butler and Anthony Catalano prepare a mailing for the senior class.

ture in the Calyx.

Phone system thwarts crank calls

although no actual threats were made. Some of the

recipients were faculty members.

“We’ve changed a couple of phone num-
bers,” said Dana Camper, W&L’s telecom-
munications service manager.

Telecommunications has been working
with university services and will be talking
to the Executive Committee.

ln addition to crank calls, many stu-
dents’ phone boxes have been locked.

Crank calls aside, however, some stu-
dents may be unwittingly leaving nasty
messages on other’s machines.

When students record obscene or un-
caring messages instead of their name into
their phones, that message automatically
replays to the recipient.

“The one thing we'd like would be for people to
put their original name and last name. It makes it hard

for other people if you don’t,” said Camper.

 

 
 

    

Senior picture sign-ups will be in the
Co-op starting January 17 and ending
on January 21. The seniors will be
taking group pictures with Taylor
Crothers, ’93, or they can submit their
own. A $20 processing fee will be
charged to all seniors publishing a pic-

 

Johndrow

  
 
    
        
 
   
  
   
   
    
      
  
      
    
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
    

Th Flln-tu Phl Janua 14: -I

Felton said the effect of the letter given to th
campus newspapers was blunted by The Tride.
because the newspaper printed an incomplete ve
sion of the letter that omitted the mission statement 0
the group.

Junior EC Representative Carol Pierce, 50
member of the coeducation committee, said the co
mittee would attempt to gather student suggestion
from 10 members of each class that would be selecte
at random.

Other suggestions included distribution c
questionnaires, utilizing the Greek system an
distribution of the committee’s mission statCmer
through electronic mail.

The EC also set dates for theBig Four election

_ for March 7, with runoffs on March 10. Cla
elections, according to Tompkins, will be held “
couple of weeks after that.”

Tompkins said the EC will expect to hear from th
White Book Review Committee at its meetﬁg 0
January 17 to report on the results ofits survey ofth
student body.

Photo By Michelle Brien, 

  
   
  
    
    
 
    
 
  
  
    
  
    
    
   

O

A mailing was sent earlier this wet
to all seniors, explaining the proces
Catalano said the turnout for these pi
ture sessions is much higher.

“We have thought about making .v
the student pictures like the senior
but most students are against H, pz
ticularly the upperclassmen.”

Johndrow said that apart from the carnk cal
telecommunications has been having a good ye
with the new phone system.

“There has been a better flow
information,” said Johndrow.

“You can come in and talk ﬂith
[anytime you have a problem]; We
help you work it out,” said Campe

Both Camper and Johndrow a
eager for input from students.

“We have to have input. We w
use the ideas you give us. We wou
love to hear from students.” sa
Johndrow. “I enjoy this. We in
students and get to talk to them. it
really the fun part of working at t
university.”

Camper agrees.

“Everything has its faults,” she said, “but l
work with anybody [to get the problem fixgd].”

VMI poster
recalled '

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

     
  
      
    
 
   
  

   
  
  
 
  

0

Two enterprising VMI 2nd classmen caused cont
versy and made the state news with a poster they sold
a fund—raiser. '

The poster, sold to raise money for the junior cl.
ring dance, features a model in military dress with t
jacket unbuttoned to her waist. The caption above 1
model reads, “Women out of uniform... A gmifyi
spectacle.”

The 2nd classmen sold the posters in the barracks a
in town beginning in September. Fantasies on Nels
Street started to sell the posters in early November.

“We never put them in the window,” said one e
ployee. “We just sold them by word of mouth and
only sold 10 until it hit the newspapers.” . _

According to VMI Public Relations Director Co
nel Mike Strickler, the Rockbridge Advocate had p
tures of the poster in an early November issue.
Richmond Times—Dispatch ran a story on Decem
15.

  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   

Once the story came out and the VMI administrati
heard of the poster, VMI Commandant Colonel l\./lich
Bissell recalled it.

“I did not think it was in good taste,” said Bissell

The cadets received a verbal reprimand and an on
to remove the posters from the barracks.

After the story ran in the Richmond Times-Dispat
poster sales skyrocketed.

“Within the first two days once it hit the new\sé)ap
we got the confiscated ones and we sold 500 ithi
couple of days,” said the Fantasies employee.

Fantasies is currently sold out of the poster, bu
expecting a new shipment soon.

“l‘ve got orders for about 1400 more,” said the
ployee.

Fantasies is selling the poster for $9.95.

 
   
  
  
    
  
   
 
  
  

6

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi,January 14, 1994
—o

   
  
   
    
   
   
   
   
 
   
  

0

By RICHARD WEAVER
' Phi Staff Writer

Women’s rush wraps up a week’s

orth of activities today with the dis-
ribution of bids to join W&L ’s four
ororities.
Sorority Rush began last Friday with
o peilhouses for all four sororities.Skit
ight followed on Sunday and Sister-
ood Night on Tuesday. Yesterday was
‘Pref” night, where the freshmen
omen indicate their choice. Bids were
issued today.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy
. “ﬁuddy” Atkins II is pleased with
his year’s Rush. 173 women signed up

0

 

to Rush in the fall.

“Things are going well as far as I
can tell. I don’t have a lot of involve-
ment in sorority Rush though until Fri-
day morning when I supervise the issu-
ing of bids, ” Atkins said.

Panhellenic Council President Laura
Clark refused to answer any questions
concerning sorority Rush, citing an
agreement with the Panhellenic Coun-
cil not to release information until Rush
is over.

This year’s sorority Rush has had
fans and detractors. Freshman Ashley
La Forge likes the timing of the rush
schedule, but does note some draw-
backs.

“It’s really good that they space it
(the four nights) out, but it is still really

Macintosh IL’ 520 5/80,
internal AppleCD " 3001' CD-ROM Drive,
Apple Keyboard 11 and max.
only $1,596.

Photo by Richard Weaver, The Ring-tum Phi
Freshmen women and sorority members get to know one another during sisterhood night.

Women tackle Rush

Bid night ends Rush process on Friday

hard to get your work done,” La Forge
said.

This year the sororities have tried to
eliminate dissatisfaction that resulted
from last year’s Rush.

The sororities were also asked to
take a harder look at minority mem-
bers.

“There is an emphasis this year on

keeping in mind that'W&L is a small

community and it is not in the best
interests of the sororities to be as exclu-
sive. Because there are fewer of them
than the fraternities this means that a
lot of girls who don’t ideally fit a
sorority’s character could potentially
be left out, like last year,” said a soror-
ity member who requested her name
not be used.

Buy a Macintosh
organize your time,
finances or go comple

Dean search continues

By LOURRAINE TioAs
Phi Staff Writer

Randall P. Bezanson, Dean of the
Law School and Professor of Law, is
leaving his position as dean at the end
of this year.

A search committee consisting of
eight members of the Law School fac-
ulty and chaired by Washington and
Lee President John D. Wilson will rec-
ommend a replacement. Wilson will
make the ﬁnal decision. The commit-

tee has also consulted some ‘students
and alumni, according to Bezanson.

One member of the search commit-
tee, Associate Dean of the Law School
and Professor of Law Mark H.
Grunewald, said “the process is still
quite fluid. Even within the last several
weeks, new candidates have been en-
tered.”

Grunewald expects the candidate
pool to narrow and interviewing to take
place in February, with the ﬁnal deci-
sion to be made in mid- to late March.

.,
This is Bezanson’s sixth year at
W&Las dean of the Law School. Be-
fore coming to W&L, he taught at the
University of Iowa Law School.

Bezanson said he will teach next
year at the University of Iowa Law
School and “will presumably return”
to teach at W&L Law School the fol-
lowing year.

“It is the custom to leave for one
year so that the new dean will feel free
to propose changes or other new direc-
tions,” said Bezanson.

Local restaurants close doors

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee students look-
ing for live music and food now have
two less options.

Both The Bone and The Sandwich
Shoppe have closed, leavingThe Raven
& Crown the only restaurant in town
with live music on weekends.

“The W&L community. has been
real good to me,” said The Sandwich
Shoppe owner Frank Stinson.

Stinson said he had a group of 10 to
20 people, including both students and
locals, who frequented the restaurant
up until the end.

Business was good until two-and-a-
half years ago, said Stinson. When
Harb’s and City Steaks & Subs opened,
however, his proﬁts fell by more than
50 percent. He brought in live music
on the weekends, trying to cultivate a
crowd that would come in for lunch
during the week as well. ,

“I was the vessel through which the
music was distributed to the public,”
he said.

But when Stinson could not meet
his January rent and yearly license re-
newals at the end ofl993, he decided to
close. The 20-year-old business closed
December 31.

W&L senior Alex Haw said he will
miss the restaurant and its owner.

“It was the cultural center of the
entire town,” said Haw. “Frank was a
nice guy.”

Haw said he liked how Stinson al-
ways sat down and talked with his
customers, making it a down-to-earth
environment. He said he will miss the
R&B and old—time music and the veg-
etable soup, which he said was the best.

While Stinson closed for ﬁnancial
reasons, The Bone co-owners Neil
Arnold and Paul Bowen decided they
did not have the time to devote to the
business to make it as successful as
they wished. They closed January 9.

The business "grew by 17 percent in
1993, said Arnold, but “it’s a collective
decision on part of my partner and
myself to discontinue this business on
the basis of economic forecasts and
long—terrn development of the assets.”

Arnold lives in Virginia Beach, and
the demands of the business were tir-
ing, he said.

“I tried to stay absentee. I tried
bringing managers in,” he said, but
business was better when he was in the
restaurant.

After opening in July of 1991 , The
Bone had the largest capacity for bands
of any Lexington restaurant and at-
tracted both students and locals.

Arnold‘ booked the live music on
weekend nights with with the help of
Night Owl Music owner Wayne
Raynal.

lnthe future, Raynal will book bands
for The Raven & Crown, said The
Raven & Crown’s co-owner Chris
Gorman. In fact, the two bands booked
for The Bone on January 13 and 14
have been rescheduled to play at the
Raven & Crown.

“I ’m not glad the otherplaces closed,
because it’s good to have a variety of
places to go,” said Gorman.

However, he said he does think the
restaurant will have an advantage now
that it did not have before.

 

fr.“ W3 

IIOW an

Macintosh [C 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus
I4"Di'splay, Apple Keyboard I! and mouse.
Only 51,196.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any
select Macintoshi or PowerBook"’computer, you’ll also receive seven
‘ software programs. It’s all included in one low price.And the software

package alone has a combined SRP value of $596? It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal

give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize
your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy
an Apple® computer? It does more. It costs less. It’s that simple. ,

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. , ~ .
For further information visit University Computing in
'Ii1cker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

*Price does not include sales tax

1Y

ﬁg‘), _.‘l'\‘~’;."'«~' ;!.‘I.

,...», -. .

. you can
Sl1‘2l1%)l€Il out y

ballistic.  

 

Apple PowerBoole 1458 4/80.
Only $1,204.

©1993 Apple (fonzpu/er. Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, I/Je Apple logo, Macintosh and I’owerBaale 4 re regir/ered /rzzdemarlar of Apple C mpuler, Inc. /1ppleCD is a trademark of Apple Com/)uter, Inc.
‘Based on I/ye combined Suggested Relax‘! Prices (SRP) of/be products in ’/lie (Imnpus Soﬂzrare Se!’/or .'rIac1‘n/orb as 0/ Oclaber 1, 1993.

0111‘

.@

 

 

 

PAGE 4

Student charged
with shoplifting

i>THEFl', from page one

the phone around 4:30 that day, and
then went to the infirmary just before
5:00.

A nurse at the infirmary said she
could not release the names of patients
or at what time they came in. She
would not verify that Flowers had been
in the infirmary that day without an in-
person request from Flowers.

Owens said she called local high
school principals looking for Mary
Stuart. but no one of that name was
registered at any high schools in the
area.

Owens said a W&L student called
her later, saying he had seen what hap-
pened and could identify the woman in
the store. He asked to remain anony-
mous.

“We called the police with that in-
formation." said Owens. "We [Owens
and Hoke] identiﬁed her from old news-
paper photos.“

“ Last week someone else who had
also been in the sto_r§ during the inci-

WIIER YOII RIOE ORIIR ONE MORE
FOR THE ROAD 0 HAVE

   

dent identiﬁed the person,”said Owens.

“I have also been interviewed by the
Honor Court,” said Owens. “l have
refused to testify until the individual
has the right to go to trial.”

“In this type of situation where the
individual is going to college we don’t
want them to be kicked out of school,"
said Owens. “We would prefer the
people not to have shoplifting on their
record, but have to do community ser-
vice and go to the high schools and
middle schools and explain how they
almost ruined their lives. We don’t
want them to lose their educational
opportunity.”

Flowers said Thompson would tes-
tify for her in court. She also said she
talked to her mother and her brother on
the telephone during that time.

“I was in my room the whole day,
tryingto study for an exam.” said Flow-
ers. “The fact is that it rests on what
somebody says about me. Its my word
against theirs.”

“If I get charged with that I get
kicked out of school. I don't think
that’s fair.”

Professor dies at 60 _

I->WHlTNEY, from page 1

Whitney was said to be someone
that could talk to anyone for hours.

“I don’t know anything that George
Whitney wasn’t interested in; he was
the last of a breed and that breed was
the Renaissance man,” said language
professor Robert Youngblood.

Perhaps the people that he touched
most were those that went through his
class. They were probably the people
he cared for most as well.

“He was the most genuinely con-
cerned professor I’ve ever had. He will
be sorely missed,” said senior Jon
Yeargan.

Junior Mike Witsil said “he cared
more about teaching than any profes-

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1994

sor I have had here...I have learned
more outside the classroom in his class
than I have learned inside the class-
room with any other professor.“

When it came to grading quizzes in
Whitney’s class, he would be very le-
nient if you thought you understood the
problem and give you credit, but if you
failed to attend the event at Lenfest the
night before you lost a point. Witsil
remembered a phrase Whitney would
use when a student had a test and
couldn’t attend a music recital —
“Don’t let your schooling get in the
way of your education.”

Youngblood said Whitney “can
serve as a beacon for W&L students;
they can have a strict ﬁeld of study, but
also enjoy a lot more in life.”

Lisa Alty,the otherorganic chemis-

\

try professor in the department told of .
something Whitney said when he was ,

diagnosed as terminally ill. “‘I feel like

a guy who jumps out of an airplane and,

pulls the ripcord but the parachute
doesn’t open, I try the safety chute nd
it doesn’t open either. I can enjoy the.
view or I can scream the rest of the way
down.”’

Professor of Biology Thomas Nye
said “I could always count on him for
something unusual to be added to my
life.”

Whitney is survived by two soﬁs, a
daughter and a grand child.

A graveside service will take place
Monday, January 17 at 12 p.m. at Stone-

wall Jackson Cemetary. A memorial

service will follow at 1 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. _.

Snagged!

Photo by Tom Hespos. The Ring—tum Phi

Lexington Police Officer R.D. Clark deals with a student and his illegally parked vehicle as another student looks on.

3

Seasonal employment available as a whitewater raft guide
in W.Va. Experience not required. Must be 19 years old,
have current CPR and first aid. Contact North American
River Runners, P.O. Box 81 Hico, WV 25854
1-800-950-2585 EOE

Apartment for Rent
4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.
2 1/2 miles west of town. Only $175 per bedroom. 7
Inquire» at ,Im(J)elly_.’s §Q§nQ[,463_a5452 .

All ERTIRELY DIFFERENT MEANING.

 

 

ALL SENIORS INTERESTED INA CAREER IN
CONSUMER OR COMMERCIAL BANKING

Founders ’ Day/ o
ODK Convocation

FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK .

GUEST SPEAKER:
CORDIALLYINVITES YOU TOATTEND -. ,

A RECEPTION TO LEARN MORE ABOUT

 

CAREER OPPOR TUNITES IN THE BANKING
INDUSTRY
TUESDAK JANUARY 18, 1994
AL UMNI HOUSE
7.-00 - 9:00 P.M. -
REcToR, W&L BOARD or TRUSTEES .
T IT L E ;
“FUTURE LEADERSHIP AT
WASHINGTON AND LEE”

Wednesday, January 19, 1994
11:30 a.m. - Lee Chapel

%. Jo

 

  
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
    
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
   

The Rin-tum Phi January 14. 1994

I

By David Wilmington
Phi Features Editor

lt’s not every day you get to hear a musical genius
logged by another genius.

Trumpeter Miles Davis died in 1991 after being in the
refront of jazz and popular music for almost 40 years.
turally, his death was followed by a number of reissued
leases from various record companies. Miles Davis an-
logies and personal eulogies from anyone who ever
ssed him on the street. Joe Henderson, a tenor sax player
d co league of Davis, chose to pay his respects in a more
ani gful manner — he recorded his interpretations of
vis’ own music.

Henderson’s 1993 release, so near, so far, is subtitled
/lusings For Miles” and features music written or made
pular by Davis. Co-producer Richard Seidel writes in the
er notes, “lt struck me that there was a whole group of
lly interesting compositions that had been written and/or
rodﬂzed by Davis but which were rarely, if ever, recorded
performed again after their initial appearance. We de-
ed to explore that repertoire on this album.” That’s not to
; these are obscure or inferior tunes. ln fact, four of them
~ conﬁrmed jazz classics. The original performances by
l vis and his assorted side men were probably intimidating
ough to discourage faint—hearted musicians from offering
msﬂves for comparison.

Joining Henderson on this album are drummer Al Foster,
ssist Dave Holland, and guitarist John Scofield. All four
n worked with Davis at different times but have never
iyed together as a band. Foster was very close to Davis and
yed in his bands during the early 70s and early 80s.
)ll3l'ld and Scofield were each with Davis for three years,
t Hepderson was only in the band fora month. Henderson’s
iliarity with the repertoire more than makes up for any
k of personal experience with Davis’ band.

The first notesofthe album make itobvious Henderson’s
nd is as mellow and rich as any in the history of the
trument . The opening composition, “Miles Ahead,”
ws Henderson to demonstrate the absolute evenness of
tong while creating a playful, energetic solo. The slow
e of the melody combined with the initial sparse instru-
ntation is reminiscent of Henderson’s last album, Lush
E.

The beginning of the solo chorus on “Joshua” provides
example of Henderson’s new melodic vocabulary. He

Bu Deborah Zollman
Phi Contributing Writer ond

After two hundred forty five years,
ces of Washington and Lee history
tinue to resurface and make their
y back to Lexington.
In November of 1993, W&L ac-
ted ﬁre donation of a letter written
Robert E. Lee from members of the
shington, D.C. law firm, Mason,
wick, and Lawrence. The letter,
tten in Lexington while Lee was
sident of W&L, was unusual be-
se he granted the law ﬁnn use of his ,
e a an endorsement.
Alth ugh Lee usually denied such
uests, he stated in this letter, “l
J not refuse an endorsement to a firm,
- of whose members is my friend
I classmate, Judge Charles Mason.”
rles Mason attended West Point

h Le: Mason finished first in the Leybum Libra;-y_

&L receives gift

class of 1829, with Lee finishing com-
petitively close in the position of sec-

Mason, Fenwick, and Lawrence, a
prominent national and international
law finn in the field of intellectual
property law, displayed the letter for
years on the office wall until a staff
memberpointedouttheletterwasfairly
valuable and could easily be taken. It
was then transferred to a safety deposit
box where it remained for several years.

That is, until partner Dale Hogue
came to W&L to visit his son, Stuart,
now a sophomore. Realizing W&L is
the repository for Lee’s letters written

_ during his presidency, Hogue discussed
the donation with other ﬁrm members.
After the members agreed, the letter,
which Hogue called “a point of pride
for the firm,” was presented to W&L.

Students wishing to view the letter
may see it in the climate—controlled
archives located on the first floor of

W&L ife

seems to have the drums
created an en- and the two
tirely new se- play off
ries of person— each other
ally recogniz- for the rest
able phrases in of the $010.

the last six or The im-
seven years. mediate
lt’s possible classic On
that some are the record-
unfamiliar be- ing is
c a u s e Davis’most
Henderson has elegant bal-
been ex- lad, “Fla-
t r e m e l y m e n c o
underrecorded Sketches.”
for a player of This com-
his ability. position
Nonetheless, a was first re-
live recording corded on
made at the thenowleg-
Village Van- e n d a r y

guard in 1985 Kind of
is noticeably Blue al-
different be- bum, a re-
cause of the cordingthat
absence of his seemstoof—
current -phrase fer new lev-
vocabulary. els of per-

“Pfrancing fectionwith

(No Blues)” repeated
was originally listening.

recorded in Asthe liner
1961 and isthe notes to
most widely Kind of

played ofthe compositions on the album. This performance
is one of the highlights of the album due to its rhythmic
intensity and blues jubilance. Henderson’s solo is a 1993
statement of blues tenor sax characterized by flights of
dissonant harmony resolving into laid back blues riffs. He
swings gracefully on top of Holland’s sustained quarter note
bass line and Scoﬁeld‘s short, plucky guitar accompani-
ment. Scofield’sspacy.colorfullydissonantchordingseems
to drive Henderson into a kind of frenzy at the end of his
solo.

Holland starts his solo by cooling things off with mea-
sure-long blues phrases. He sits on the last notes of these
phrases as ifsavoring the sound and listening for inspiration
(which he receives. in part. from Henderson, who you can
hear commenting in the background). As Holland relaxes
into longer phrases. Foster starts reacting and responding on

    
   

“./z""2 g4  s
-‘  4%. 1 AA;/Abccoa ’
¢v%h,4.A.:  /5 at. , fl-1.4
at N-¢~u4/$1.4/I 
_ ;,"}n.u[L.- , .44  
'   LL,

  f/((1.44/u ,JI/¢r.(,¢/lz/(.»A_,.r.L -Oc...,.4,,.,.44

  
ﬁg !L< Z/«um/ﬁ%p1  ,£4.«(,-$__J

. zilvvy /M a..o.c~L..)u.r at 44%¢.«Ivo-(JJ .614.
‘)4/141.! (14.44.-{/L..J 7  £7 114-‘ ' '4 *‘°‘‘‘’J
‘ .

  World renowned quinlel lo plau Lenfesl
Brass group performs Baroque, Classical and Jazz J

thy Gaylard. Concert Guild hosts two or more visiting

 '
434-11 Vfxl. 41:“ c(_, 4.. 

ﬂ7’Ia,44xvL_.. ,

yd“.  "4 )
41/Ly Aer./7}’ 7 moi l'[a:...//

Blue explained, “ ‘Flamenco Sketches‘ is a series of five
scales, each to be played as long as the soloist wishes until
he has completed the series." Henderson uses this extremely
open structure to create a kaleidoscope of musical impres-
sions. Where the original “Flamenco Sketches”solossounded
like three different expressions of endless longing,
Henderson’s solo feels like a whirlpool of emotions churn-
ing inside a single person. He manages to evoke memories
of saxophonists John Coltrane and Cannonball Adderly in
his solo. Pan of his final statement of the melody is an
invocation of Davis himself. Scofield manages to make one
of the most famous piano accompaniments sound as if it
were written for guitar and Foster is able make brushes on
a snare drum sound like the distant maracas of a carnival.
The piece ends with Henderson is last notes fading like sighs
into the sound of his breath over the reed.

14/[4/L4...)

 

From Staff Reports

 

PAGE 5

axophone great pays tribute

enderson remembers Miles Davis in ’93 Jazz release

Both “Teo” and “Milestones” are good examples of the
group’s ability to interact melodically and rhythmically
while swinging together at different tempos. “Sidecar”
touches on Davis’ rock inﬂuenced sounds of the late 60s and
early 70s. While the rhythm section lays down a plodding,
almost rap-like, backbeat, Henderson manages to swing
even better than Davis did on this type of tune.

The only shaky element on the album, as heard in
“Circle,” is Scofield’s ability to swing. The ballad is one of
Davis’ most interesting pieces because of the way the
harmony, melody and rhythm seem to push everything
forward while constantly tying each other up. Scofield’s
playing is hannonically fascinating, but doesn’t seem to

‘swing — especially when playing with Henderson and

Foster who can swing using a single note. The only tune
where Scofield seems to let loose and swing is, appropri-
ately, “Swing Spring.” Here, he manages to keep his adven-
turous harmonic and rhythmic identity while maintaining a
relaxed swing during his solo.

so hear, so far is the second in a series ofjazz composer
songbooks Henderson is recording for Verve records. In the
tradition ofthe great Ella Fitzgerald songbooks, Henderson
and his producers pick a specific composer and record an
album focusing on a specific era or form of that composer’s
works. Henderson’s first songbook recording, Lush Life.‘
TheMusic ofBilly Strayhorn, was released in 1992 to almost
universal critical acclaim. His popularity has continued to
grow as shown by numerous “Jazz Artist of the Year”
honors in various magazines. Listeners are realizing why
Henderson is revered by the new generation ofjazz musi-
cians: he encompasses and filters the tenor sound of older
masters while fluently speaking and creating with modern
harmony.

As this kind of popularity usually creates an interest in
artists’ older work. here are some suggestions for those who
wish to investigate Joe Henderson. Two classic recordings
from the 60s, when Henderson was considered a product of
the Detroit jazz scene, are Page I and Mode For Joe. Both
albums feature outstanding sidemen and excellent writing.
Recent albums include The State ofthe Tenor: Live at the
Village Vanguard (Volumes 1 and 2) and Soul Gestures in
Southern Blue: (Volume 1) Thick in the South. The latter
recording was made with Wynton Marsalis’ band and guest
drummer Elvin Jones. Thick in the South is destined to
become one of those albums people kick themselves for not
paying attention to sooner. The compositions are the most
elegant statements of modern blues conception and
Henderson’s playing is nothing short of legendary.

Needless to say. ifyou get the chance to see him live. Joe
Henderson is. to quote an old saxophone teacher, "one of
those cats you sell your car to go see.“

Photo by Lincoln Rssel

The Empire Brass quintet will play in the Lenfest Center this Tuesday at 8 p.m. as part of the Concert Guild music series.

legendary string group Beaux-Arts Trio on March

performers or groups during Fall and Winter Terms. 9.

featuring heavy metal...so to speak.

Andrew Lloyd Webber.

 

Photo courtesy of Barbara Brown
- rt E. Lee’s letter to former classmate at a D.C. law firm.

 

of Zurich, Switzerland.

The Lenfest Center is about to host its first concert

Telarc records artist Empire Brass will open the
Concert Guild winter term season this Tuesday at 8
p.m. The brass quintet performs and records music
from such diverse sources as Bach, Shostakovich,
Stravinsky, Richard Rodgers, Duke Ellington and

The concert is one of 100 the ensemble gives each
yearthroughout the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan and
Russia. While in North America, the quintet has been
featured with highly acclaimed groups such as the
Chicago Symphony, the New York Philharmonic,
the National Symphony, the Philadelphia Orchestra
and the Toronto Symphony Orchestra. The Empire
Brass has also appeared with the Tonhalle Orchestra

The W&L Concert Guild consists of a student
board led by Associate Professor of Music Dr. Timo-

tra of Hamburg and Chanticleer.

Recent performers have included The Mozart Orches-

The final Concert Guild presentation will be the

Reservations can be made by calling 463-8000
between noon and 4 p.m. Mon. - Fri. or by stopping
by the Lenfest Center Box Office.

 

 

W The Ringum Phi, January 14,1993

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

 

0“ “I3 mark by Mark Parisi - Pluggers by Jeff MacNe11y
W

     
    

',s_v_v

_ \ _ — _——.—-m ‘ ‘.;..:
~\‘ t§ .~_.

\\§§§{{§‘i§'\s:‘>:-:-
THE NEW GU"\’ SURE \\ V5" ‘‘
KNOWS HI9 STUFF,

BUT HE WEQWT
TALK MUCH.

  
  
 
    
   
  

  
  
 
 

 
 

 

 

Dave by David Miner

I I
.-I
,— .
4’-nI"’—
I
Inc/PIQ;1!UI¢

   
  
   
 
  
    
        
    
     
    
   
  
  

 

     
 

   

  

    

 

 

 

 

I \ 16
%1‘ ii ;, ’    , g {vim W ow ii:[ iavfﬁwsgz  %‘i’;‘.*‘.'iEi'2'iE“éZéi‘E“.iw”.”2$‘
.  , / , I‘ «'3; . . ’ _ '
i » .,//»/.Wgi):i,' . iii
 We ~.'.~ m i ' /A / K  Q: o
§  Pluggers can work with just about anyone.
nW~KMl6l ‘
Colonnade Crossword F ' ‘ 1 ,
1éCRO:S 1 p ‘:  ‘ V; ;—.
uppo .f  . =:»' .:
i     i  i;\i2\< é\NCE HE \\F-L\>\=.D

ii; "’   ; _ 1 lift‘:   a gram: us 1° Fo\\R-éTkR

15 ‘v.1/gar down ‘ r ‘. ‘  I \ {    

16 A;,g;;.=. .~ .1 l  ,; \Né?\3.CV°R; c_:roi>i>Ei>

17 Patron ,_ .  rinoiixb Rim‘ N \*E‘~?“—- ,
£3 ghimneyldirt VI NE Qgﬁ kL_,K\kl(7 WNXT

21 F;‘.’.‘f.3°JJ§’i{‘i.g New NO WE

ggih/Avgging bird BY E°\)\LLlx8i\\é€;E

26 Straps - -_-_-_-

3; §’3I§‘i?.Zii  L.-: '

30 Orngrisis. for .

siéiiid.   «

rincip es

 /manner 9°°c‘,3f‘g5'“,,5,,¢',°T

39 Legislative  TD

wgggggrs 3( AMQMORE.

41 Nest egg letters by Mike Peters

:3 E223:    "W/94 3

45 :::,:‘ten 9 Used to be Last week’s puzzle solved ip

48 Permit 10 Zipper

49 American poet 11 Seething

50 Where 12 Perch

Islamabad is 13 Deadens the

52 Eye part sound of

53 New: abbr. 18 — chance!

54 Like a tence- 22 Endures

sitter 23 Breaks all of a

58 Pro —- sudden

23  Iish school  17V-oljlcagses 0 / I

61 Latg. abbr. performer I

62 2s:~.*;2.:*;*;,2;;i.. ":*“°“*%:°

. exo ic crea ures
63 $'.‘3¥’.iY°“' 5 3% E§§?§d indigenous to .
34 Items for Alaska. <'
DOWN angling % E
1 Apron part 35 Brainy g 0 I
 =;Z.a';*.*.i°:.‘::.::"° ca  -4-1” , 3
4 Genuflects 40 Kitchgn device )  ‘ \  I -“
5 Ground grain 43 Mars. e.g. 47 Japanese city 55 Gabor I\\ I  // , ‘  , i 
6 Circle part 44 Comesto pass 49 Calendar abbr. 56 Otto — , \g_ _—E5.w i _ 3
7 Dwelling 45 Seed kin 51 Ends Bismarck it I91.‘ _ 2 _l\_, / \
3 Makes beautiful 46 Gem weight 52 Frosted 57 Dir. letters  i  V Egg  {E
‘i. _ . . n./4 ‘wxixx-we \ i - A\\\\' ixxvrrci
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
'-' . I
E Pa“”T‘m"' Help Wanted 5 Evans Dining Hall 1S now
E Work approximately 20 hrs. per week 5 - aCCCpt1llg Appl1Cat1OHS fOl .
:Opportunity. to earn $400 - $800 per month starting: Hardware, Paint, and Related Items thg PQSiti()n of Studﬁnt
: immediately — College Students Welcome : - . k 1
C3114634675 2 Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. Llnewor er? to app y? S66
I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I : E.  St.’  V      ’
I I I I I I I I I I, _ ,_ -
ylllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE - _
§BEACH Springbreak Promoter. § _ D 
S OMETHING T()  smau oi iaige groups.  Deadline Monday 1/1 7/94
§ FREE trips and CASH! §
FIT ANY SIZE 
illlIIIIIllIIIII|l|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIE

 

AP N I I E Kerr’s Creek House For Rent

Clean, 4 Bedroom, 2 1/2 ,.

bath, $800/mo. Available d

June 1st. 8 min from W&L
Call Tom 464-8628

 

SPRINGBREAK
packages. PROMOTE on
campus or SIGN UP for
’°°"§i'2§ay‘§“a» %‘“*“““   ~     .   i  
City an up. ancun.   ;: ,3 
’ ” Stonewall Square Shopping Center
h d Lexingggggl
Rig tnow, your a 463- _ '-’
could be in this <£r<£ri‘ri£rJanuary Specialsﬁrikﬁrik
Space’ “"3 See" by Buy 5 comic books and get 4th one Free
hundreds of We carry all major comic distributors 81 independents such as
potential customers. Mat;-veL DC, Image, Valliany, . . .
Ca11462_4059 ikﬁrikﬁrikfrikikikfrskvkik
Buy any full-length CD and get $2.00 off each

 

consecutive one

    

CRUISE JOBS or
Students Needed!

Em WW permommwoﬂd Buy any full length cassette and get $1.00 off each
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the consecutive one.
Caribbean, etc.) working for ﬂ * 71:‘, ﬁ ﬂ ﬂ ﬂ ﬁ, * ﬂ * * 7}
C i Shi T c a ‘es. _ _ , _
ii:ii:.y, SIi)iSni)r:ieiﬁ:1i\dOl:1nilIl)-'lr'uirne 99¢ Rentals in Foreign and Hunting Sections

W emP1°Y“‘°“‘ 3"“”“"1°- F°‘ Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. 10a.m.-ll p.m.,

453 E. Nelson St. ernp}oymentPr°sram¢a11= _ sum Noonqo p_n\,
463-3322 o.m......,i.........,.... ‘ C'{§‘5§,Eé§‘§.'3¥é§eZ§5E’é"§Z”§ L1 Jr‘

 

 

 
 

PAGE 7

O

B PECK, from page 1

percent of all her student evaluations were
overwhelmingly positive and if obvious gender
bias was discounted, 98 percent were positive.

ﬂStudents have consistently praised many
strengths such as enthusiasm, imagination and
the ability to facilitate an open and animated
discussion,” Peck said. “As a female professor
who welcomes a variety of materials and per-
spectives, Irhave been particularly important to
the women and minority students.”

Many students did not respond to the
department’s request for a letter because of a
growing cynicism about the department, Peck
said.

After the department’s decision was made,
16 additional letters were sent in. In addition,
sophomore John Branam circulated a petition
Wdnesday, Jan. 12, which garnered more than
80 signatures showing student support for Peck.

“Many students have told me they were
cynical about the English department’s process

Rlamifications of Pe

after what happened to John Lynch and did not
believe student opinion would be considered,”
Peck said. “The English department is ignoring
the student voice which is strongly supportive.
I believe the charge of teaching inadequacies is
a pretext for other motives.”

Late last spring, following the denial of two
separate requests for reconsideration and writ-
ten reasons for dismissal, Peck began looking
into other options open to her. She opted to file
the appeal after learning the American Asso-
ciation of University Professors (AAUP) stipu-
lates a committee composed of elected faculty
members should hear cases in which a “faculty
member challenges negatives decisions because
of inadequate considerations or more substan-
tial considerations such as discrimination or
denial of academic freedom.”

The only such committee at Washington
and Lee, the President’s Advisory Committee,
was chosen to hear the appeal. The six elected
faculty members began reading Peck’s 67—page
petition in early November.

The committee was to base its conduct on

that outlined for the standing committee by the
AAUP.

In reaching its decision, however, the com-
mittee based its judgment on university guide-
lines regarding the process of renewal and
tenure decisions as set forth in the Faculty
Handbook.

“A process, that in our judgment was not
ﬂawed, still needs to be explained fully to
Professor Peck,” Williams said. “If a more
complete explanation of their decision is given,
it will certainly allow her to make more in-
formed decision as to what her next step will
be.”

However, the committee’s recommendation
to the English department to provide a detailed
letter explaining their decision, is - for Peck -
indicative of a major flaw in the department’s
considerations.

“According to the Faculty Handbook, the
candidate must receive a letter of evaluation
and the AAUP says you are to be given specific
reasons for dismissal; the English department
did not do that,” Peck said. “Now, the English

department will have to be accountable for their
decision. They will have to provide principled
reasons for my non-renewal which are consis-
tent with the factual record.”

Although the committee has reached a deci-
sion, there isThere is some debate as to whether
the English department will have to follow their
recommendations.

“It [the committee’s report] certainly doesn’t
end the issue one way or another,” Williams
said. “Another decision has to be made and the
next step will be his [Wilson]”

Peck said the committee’s decision poten-
tially provides a means of reopening negotia-
tions between the English department and her-
self although a mediator may prove to be nec-
essary since “the English department has proven
themselves to not be impartial.”

Branam said the findings of the committee
provide W&L with an interesting opportunity.

“The most valuable piece of this whole
situation is justice. The process that has gone on
with Professor Peck is wrong and correcting
that process is most important,” Branam said.

  

The Ring-tum Phi. January 14, 1994

ck decision still unclear

“This isn’t just a Professor Peck situation. It’s
a vehicle through which W&L can improve its
bad habit of narrow-mindedness and prove
itself a just institution.”

Despite the findings of the committee, the
sex discrimination charge filed against the uni-
versity with the Equal Employment Opportu-
nity Commission (EEOC) still stands.

“I don’t think the ﬁght is over. lt’s just one
step in a larger process,” Peck said.

Although she views the findings of the com-
mittee as a victory, Peck nevertheless remains
concerned about the procedure and the ability
to make “power serve principle.”

“Perhaps it is only because the President’s
Advisory Committee did not consider issues of
fairness and objective professional judgment
based on the evidence, that they were able to
conclude there was adequate consideration,”
Peck said.

“They only considered the barest formali-
ties of procedures. I still have many questions
about the fairness of the English department’s
process.”

VMI still searching for solution

Strickler said he is not worried about the implications of the recent

By MICHEAL Hrswu-:1'r
Phi Staff Writer

A VMI proposal to start a parallel program for women at Mary
Baldwin College may still be alive.

On February 9, the Federal District Court in Roanoke will begin to
analyze Virginia Military Institute’s proposal to establish a similar
leadership program for women at Mary Baldwin. V

According to VMI Public Relations Director Colonel Mike Strickler,
the case will be presided over by Judge Jackson Kiser, the same judge
who ruled in VMI’s favor in 1991 in the United States 4th Circuit Court
of Appeals. '

Last June the Supreme Court refused to hear the case and sent it back
to a lower court.

Stricklersaid Kiser ruled that VMI had four options: become private,
create a parallel program for women, accept women, or propose other
creative alternatives.

VMI proposed that a Virginia Leadership Institute for Women be
established at Mary Baldwin College with one difference—-no rigorous
training program for first-year cadets.

Strickler said the Federal District Court will decide on the consti-

ruling by the Circuit Court, which said that the school must admit
women. Strickler noted that only one woman would be taking classes
and would be exempt from the school’s more stringent physical require-
ments.

He added that VMI has been struggling over this issue far longer than
the all-male Citadel.

“I think that ours [case] would have more of an effect on them than
theirs would have on us, ” said Strickler.

Anne Marie Whittemore, a lawyer with McGuire, Woods, Battle &
Booth in Richmond, said that VMI’s proposal satisfies the conditions
mandated by the Circuit Court.

Whittemore said she sees no conﬂicts with the Brown vs. Board of
Education decision, which dictated that separate but equal is inherently
unequal.

“We believe there are gender differences that would justify single-
sex [education],” she said.

Whittemore said the president and dean of Mary Baldwin will testify
along with various expert witnesses. According to Whittemore, Dr.
David Reisman, professor of sociology at Harvard University, will
testify that the program at Mary Baldwin will achieve some type of
leadership for women similar to VMI and that it is a unique and

tutionality of the proposal.

innovative program.

0

O

Or

this wag.

 HCU VOU!

Thanh You for diverting gour attention

We at the Phi would line to extend aninvitation to god.
Now that god have made it past Fall Term gou’re on a
‘roll and readg to add some excitement to gour life. well,
we thinh we can help gou out. Come work for us. After
all we’re the onlg newspaper in town with a real comics

section and a singing computer.

can thinh of.

it gou’re interested, we’re interested in reporters, Copg editors,
photographers, artists, advertising assistants, or angthing else gou

So come on pg or give us a call at 464-4060.

 

    

PAGE 3

@112 '4'.Ring-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Favorite Prof
Passes Away

Washington and Lee is known for professors who care
about their students and take the extra, intangible step to help
us in our education. Even among a faculty known for its
dedication, George Steven Whitney stood out.

Professor Whitney gave his students more than book
knowled e. He gavethem his love and ener y. He pushed his
students t at one extra step, but Professor itney was a man
that was willin to go that extra step with them.

Professor itney’s students and colleagues have said
the will miss him. But anyone who has heard someone speak
of rofessor Whitne knows his inﬂuence will reach farther
than what he accomp ished in his lifetime. Professor Whitney
was notfjlust a professor and a collea ue. He was the kind of
person I at has the ability to change lives. Professor Whitney
will be missed, but he will not soon be forgotten.

Who Asked You? R

How would you like it if someone came into your home
and com letely remodeled it without first asking you what
you wou d like to have done?

You probably would not like it at all, but that is essentially
what the university is oing to do to the residents of Gaines 1
Hall. The Gaines Hall Revitalization Committee has been
meetin all school year to try and make Gaines a more
desirab e place to live — no small undertaking. But the
committee has practically i nored the current residents of
Gaines, or at least that is w at any casual observer would
believe.

Gaines residents have been iven one survey, which can be
called simplistic at best, and a lank piece of paper on which
each individual was su posed to write down what they liked
best about livin in aines. The survey left no room for
comment and ju ged answers on a numeric scale. As for the
blank piece of paper, more than a few residents were given the
imgression that it was not somethin to be taken seriously,
an they shouldn’t give the reason t ey picked the answer
the ha .

The revitalization committee’s intention may have been
good when devising their system, but it seems their execution

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, January 15, 1994

U.S. has nuclear double standard ,

The news is full of the signing of the accord
between the United States, Russia, and Ukraine to
dismantle Ukraine’s nuclear arsenal. Ukraine seems
worlds away from Lexington, but what goes on in the

world.

weapons, which are more suited to peace in today’s

The second argument is economic. I am not an
economist so I will simply state two facts. First, for

ODS.

we have when it comes to who has nuclear weap-

To those hawks who would call this stupid and
naive: it might be naive but not stupid. It is human

nature to want what others have, some sort of
equality in status, as long as we have weapons
everyone else is going to want them too. In addition, 6

every $1 billion spent on de-
fense, 25,000 jobs are cre-
ated; for every $1 billion spent

world affects us, even in Lex-
ington. While I am sure ev-

was flawed. Surveys often can be the best way to gauge
6 eryone agrees there are major

attitudes, but in this case the survey only scratched t
surface. Simply asking someone if the use one of the two

‘<i‘°““=" ‘a°“‘““ ‘" Gen.“ *5 "°‘ mug if ‘he PW“ ‘S W ‘.’§.'3.?§§i.§°J§“iiI£“i{¥.’.§ii“!§§ NOVA 2?e§i'§§”§Z23?.3i’°.?‘i335’“‘i§° fi”§}'e‘n§’é’i’ii.°.§ §3£i;a“!‘;§‘:”°n§‘g“°’ "“°’”‘°S f°'
given the Chance [0 explain why they-do Or do not The Survey double standard when itoomes the Center for Defense lrifor): The other area of the cifuble standard could be
would have been a ood startin point if the committee had 1 ES . H CLARKE, . f d h b 1. . 1 db d. h “d d ,,
then taken the res” ts and use them to determine further to nuc ear arms. sentia y, , matron oun t at y e 1mi- so ve yen ingt e oas we say, not as we .0
the belief seems to be that  nating nuclearweapons from standard of American conduct. Last year as China

questions. But they didn’t, and the residents of Gaines really

on,‘ know what is going on. thenucleararsena1,wewould

save $31 million a year.

Americans should have
nuclear arms and test them

was getting ready to start nuclear testing, President
Clinton announced if China resumed testing so .

 

If the committee had consulted with Gaines residents they
might not have recommended the conversion of loft suites to
meeting facilities for the sororities and the Women’s Forum.
Anyone who lives in Gaines knows those suites arethe most
desirable places to live. There are less than 15 loft suites in
all of Gaines. The onl thing changing ﬁve loft suites does is
take away five desira le living spaces.

The sororities and Women’s Forum deserve their own
spaces. But is this solution the best? There are many other

while the rest of the world
should not.

The U.S. is currently engaged in two public rela-
tions campaigns‘, one abroad in Ukraine and one here.
The one abroad is simple: convince the Rada (Ukrai-
nian parliament) that they would be better off without
all the nuclear anns on their land. President Clinton is
helpingeverybody else by treating President Kravchuk

sure of safety would

safety and reliability comes
up. Under the Nuclear Testing Moratorium Act, only
15 tests for safety are allowed by 1996. This is 15 too
many, considering safety tests don’t test the stability
of a weapon; they test the power of a weapon after
safety features have been added. I think a truer mea-

Finally, the argument of

torium.

would we. However, at the same time, we expected
everyone else in the world to maintain their mora-

We tend to ignore what our allies do with their
arms while hounding our non-allies. For example
the case of Mordechai Vanunu, the person who
revealed that Israel had nuclear capabilities. He’s

serving his seventh

Theloftswesaretheiargestsuites»butthey i.:::;°.:::i:;:::::..”::t:,‘;'ti:::?..t::*;3:i....  i:a;:t.:2.‘,8i.::3::2*
t t h 60 t' h . . . ‘ . ‘ ‘ -————-———— ‘
:§:(,E]t(i)n;2_1rﬁe€jf;:)ré(S)[l]lgt11SeCf):m()1li(1|j(eU1‘:ggllggggignlgigggggvgggﬁ ttossﬁampﬁégmtlhwhple-heartedlyﬁgreetgipt Ukraine Qhose ywdhomliil/‘Jed V meilitd llf he had ‘re-
suites benefits anyone except the university,which has effec- '5 C er 0 W‘ O" W°aP°"S: '3 Pm em. "mes °“’“‘”"‘ 9 ° .8" Th 1, 1' b h V“ e. .r.aq S_ “C ea‘
~ « - when you compare that campaign to the public rela- vada test site or in e e lefseems to e t at capabilities v/ewould
tivel dodged the question ofsorority housing and a house for . . . . . . . ’ .
the Oments Forum. tionscartipaign withindthe U.S. which seems bent on thhe Marfshall lslalnds Amencans Should have nuclear ha\;edhhailedbatnd pro- ’
. convincing us we nee nuc ear arms. ow sa e a nuc ear dt t th '  th t tec e im, u since it
We have all heard the arguments for arms and explosion is. arnls an es em W l e e res waslsrael’sarsenal he
continued testin : we need arms for deterrence. In Now, ou ma be 0 the WOI'ld Sh0llld 7101. revealed, W6 i HOFC
8 Y Y 8
some way, shape, or form cutting nuclear weapons wondering aboutthe him.
will hurt the economy. And, as stated by Admiral point of my giving   l would like to
W.G. Ellis of the Department of Energy, “Nuclear all these facts. The leave you withaquote
    testing must be carried out to assure the safety and treaty with Ukraine from the man my
reliability of each nuclear weapon in the stockpile.” is admittedly a historical one; however, the United grandfather served under in World War ll: “The ‘
“ , ” Let’s evaluate these three statements. First, we States has the ability to take even more dramatic and world in arms is not spending money alone. It is
1 VC S€€n  need weapons to deter potential aggressors. Even if important steps. With the upcoming Non-Prolifera- spending the sweat ofits laborers, the genius ofits
this is true we hardly need the thousands ofwarheads tionTreaty Extension Review Committee in l995,the scientists, the hopes of its children... This is not a
_ a w&L male /',',,d,’,1g ;,,',,,5e[/',‘,, a soromy ms}, eVenl_ we have when a couple hundred would be sufficient U.S. has a chance to take a bold step toward non- way oflife at all in any true sense. Under the cloud
to destro most life on Earth. The Cold War is over roliferation, the chance to agree to dismantle its of threatening war, it is humanity han in from a
Y . P . . . . . 3 3
and we have military capabilities, beyond nuclear nuclear arsenal, and to eliminate the double standard cross of iron,” — Dwight D. Eisenhower.
0
66
There are lots of femfondlers and U S Af .  needs chan e
tree huggers in the world.” 0 0   g
_" W&L Pmfesso’ Once upon a time, in the British destiny it is to subjugate lesser people, mately to give, his lirfle in sprvice to lo_s1tl?l:Ne of the de1yellopel:1d lvlvorld are
colony of Nyasaland in Africa, there and teachthemthewaysofwhatpasses others—others unlike imsel .In spite sti t e ones who 0 d a t e power,
lived a boy named Hastings Kamuzu as civilization. of his context of overlordship (or per- just as much as before. The difference .
" " * Banda. It has come down to us that But I have another anecdote that haps because of it), Broughton felt a is that, by breaking the formal ties of
I B ‘  In I Hastings would sometimes stand out- may give us pause in our judgments. sense of responsibility for his African colonialism, we were able to convince
side of the local whites-only tennis At aboutthesame time young Hastings charges; he translated that sense into ourselves that we no longer had any
Executive Ennn, , , _ _ , _ _ _ , , , , , , , _ _ _ _ _ , _ , , , , _ _ _ , _ , , _ _ , , , , ,_p,ancesca Kefalas club, watching his colonial masters was serving as an unpaid ball boy in concrete andynoble action. pbligations to the people we made
Managing Editor ........................................ . . Nancy Pavlovic hone their net Nyasaland, We Americans, however. have had free; theS_0m_a11s are an Independent
1 _’ News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos games against my great enough of Somalia._It Just isn’t worth people, again, In the_ f0l'm31 S_€nS6_, 50

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Richard Weaver the backdrop u n c l e , risking American lives, we say. We any aid Westerners give them isakind- .

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilben of a green Rift Broughton went initially to keep order and distrib- ness and not a duty. The idea of colo-

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Stephen Williard Vaney land- Waddy, was ute food; we are not leaving because nialism, however, was based loosely

Features Editors. - - - - - - - ~ - - - . - - - - ~ - - - - ~ - - ~ - ~ - --David Wilmington: Ethan KnI_PP scape. NICHOLAS L, serving as a those needs no longer exist — we are (and imperfectly) on the age-old prin-

Ph°‘°8“*PhY E“"°" - ‘ ‘ - - - - - ~ - - - - - ' ~ ~ - ~ ' - - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - ' - - ' ' ' - - -B°”""‘Y S"“"‘ The injus- doctorforthe leaving because we don’t choose to ciple of vassalage; the mother country

A" Di’°°‘°' ‘ ' ' ‘ ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ’ ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ‘ ' ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ’ ‘ ' Pb" C‘“"°“ ticeof it allwas WADDY, ’96 British Oolo- face the risk and sacrifices involved in would protect and look after the sub-

y_,.5df‘°"‘:31C°"°°“i-°{‘ - ~ ' ‘ ‘ - - - - ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' "jeb Tiny a little lost on riial Office in meeting them. Here is the most telling ject country, and the subject country

’.~Ed"°"“' Page Ass'S“'" ' ' ' ‘ ' ‘ ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ’ ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ "Sm" Wya“ y o u n g the west Af- scandal of all: in the supposedly en- would in turn obey. The end of colo— .
5- , . H a st i n g s rican Gold lightened moral calculus ofthe 1990’s, nialism was a brilliant deal for us: we
3 M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .K Rodd ’ . . . .

y  Bﬁgangegs Manager _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ A _ _ _ _ . . V ‘Allen Fucking”, Rcavnlgom Jags however, as he Coast. 1 To half a milllion S_oin2ti_lis saved frorrdi star- kept thglpower and forfeited any ac-

’ IAdvertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Sally Obennueller would Pa‘ _ . make 3 0n_g vane" pa em_S'gm lcancetotwo Olen couma 1 lty‘ , _ -

glnivenising Assistant , _ _ , , , _ _ _ , , _ , , _ , _ _ _ , , , , _ , _ _ _ , , _ _ , , _ _ _ , , , , Brian widene, tiently wait for a Briton to hit the ball story short, l3roughton pouredout his dead American So, if the Afn—

Icncniniion Manager , , , , , , , , , _ _ , , , , _ , , , _ , , , _ , _ , , , , , , , _ _ _ . . ,,i3nan Carpenter over the fence, so he could dutifully life, quite liberally, combating the soldiers. We cans are ev_er_to
 throw it back. Fate has been kind to scourge of river blindness, in so doing chide our fo.re- ______ C c ____ betreated within-
me R.-,,g.n,,,, pm‘ is Pnnnsnen pndays dun-ng the nnnengmdnnie scnoni yen, at Hastingsin the intervening years; he is making it possible forthousands to see bears for treating . tegnty, it seems

Wvashington and Lee University. Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-[um phi now president of the African nation of all the beauties of this world who oth- the Africans like We chlde 0“,-forebears we have two op- Q
1.‘? . . . . . . Th Washin um and Lee Malawi.The few remainingwhiteland— erwise could not have done so. Even- underlings, but for treatin the Afﬁcans tions. Either they
}:¢°m°_s p_"manly from advemsmg ind su,bs°"p"°" revenues‘ e g , _ owners are, at least technically, his tually,Broughton Waddy would dieof we treatthem like .  should be given a
r;?l.lbIlC3Il0nS Boardelectstheexecutive editorand business manager, butTheRmS‘tumPhi Subjects. a disease he contracted while working chaff. Just how llke undefllngs; but we truer equality, an
 °'h¢TWi5¢ i“d°P°“d€m- The great changes that have oc- as a doctor in the Gold Coast. far has the West treat them  chaff actual equality,or
. ,3; Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi‘ office, room 208 of the University curred in Mr. Banda’s life over the, ltwouldybe much too bold of me to come from the h ha h ‘W their inferiority
y }'.5(;,n.,,_ by noon on Tuesday in app”, in ihaiweekvs ednion Lenm, connnns, and «My say, 50 years are indicative of similar suggest which of these two anecdotes dark . days . of Just 0W far S I e est slﬁoulg ‘be en-

 ; -':Yiews” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does Zgufts _‘hlr_0ugil‘]0ut Af"‘‘:ja' 1:18 |Agfe of glfvzzla Cizzfirsergplat/urelgfttti‘: g:,e,:::e de‘a_u‘l'_1nr‘nS,§'C“/1:; Conle fr0"l the dark days :0:_:r::f relgi Srgglﬁ Q
3   '°ﬂ°°‘ 'h° °Pi"i°_" of The R""g"f”" PM or “S Sim‘ This newspaper observes Cum"! lh(;(;2:i1§ni1nalal;l!l)l:isI?l'tl:g Einnlerayeririocrii (liave bait “better-<(>)flf” had the ‘Euro? Eoiifil lsossibly be of chauvinistic impeﬁal' relationship), like
°°“" d°ﬁ""i°"5 °f "b" 3"“ °b5°°""y' independent and ostensibly self-deter- peans never come? Did the West, in more chauvinis- ism  c o l 0 n i a l i s m .
miningAfrica_n nation-states.Thestock the end, teach them more about war tic than to tacitly Whatever the
The Ring-rum Phi reaction to this turn of events is, of and oppression than it did about jus— assume that an choice we cannot
pos, Office Box 899 course, positive; it upsets today’s |ib- tice and charity? Who knows. American life is worth, at least, 20,000 pretend that thetweaker nations of the

Lexmgmn‘ Virginia erated conceptions ofhuman dignity to But, as U.S. forcesslink away from times as much as a Somali life? world can and should “take care of 5
74450 suggest that one nation could jLlSllfl- Somalia, one thing is clear: enlight— I suspect the truth lS this: Western- themselves. . lfyou are magnanimous

' ably keep another in the bondage of ened thinkers of the post—colonial era ersdid not close outthe eraofcolonial- enough to give Mr. Banda his tennis N,
T°'°Ph°”° (703) 4624060 colonial servitude. There are. to this could still learn a thing or two from ism because ofsome new moral vision; court, then you had better be willing to
F3X(703)453'405° modern way of thinking, no “mother men like Broughton Waddy. He, at it was done out of fatigue and eco- play his game with him on an equal
countries," no favored races whose least, was willing to risk, and ulti- nomicself-interest.Afterall.what was footing.

 

 

 

 

we Ring-tum Phi, January 15, 1994

OPINION

Save the planet, adopt a driver

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

We have got to do something about
this problem with people who do not
know how to drive. In the past month I
have encountered people who have I)
driven directly at me in my lane, 2)
tried to back up onto freeways, and 3)
p$sed me, pulled in front of me, slowed
down, and then waved to me, in that
order. I think you’ll agree this madness

‘ has got to stop.

Instead of doing homework, I have
spent the past week designing the per-
fect plan to reform this nation’s driv-
es. But before I unveil it, here is some
relevant background information.

For Christmas my cousin Jenni re-
ceived a wolf (really, this is relevant).
My other cousin Cindi found some
organization that deals with such things
and adopted a wolf for Jenni from a
pwk that roams Montana.

Apparently, for a fee, one may adopt
a wolf (or a whole pack) and receive
updates on where the wolf is roaming,
its family tree, as well as a picture. I
understand that you can even write
your wolf letters. The adoption fee
stwposedly goes toward the preserva-
tion of endangered species in the wild.
There are similar programs for blue
whales, eagles, The Trident, etc.

The adoption of random things such
as the above has inspired the perfect
solution to the aforementioned prob-

lem: there should be an Adopt-A-Driver
program. Before a license is issued,
new drivers would be required to find
a person who would be accountable for
any obnoxious driving the new driver
may commit.

For example, let’s say Robert E.
Student is driving along Henry Street
and he speeds up and pulls into the last
parking space, just as you are about to
pull into it. Instead ofbecoming sense-
lessly angry,

of resolving motoring disputes?” I
would then answer, “Because I com-
pleted Coach Jones’ Driver’s Educa-
tion Program,” and I am now omni-
scient.

When I was fifteen I took a driver’s
“education” course so that the insur-
ance company wouldrelease my mother
and simply charge us exorbitant rates
for our cars to be insured. My instruc-
tor for this course was Coach Jones of

the armored car

you may simply division of Vero
call in his li- ___m. j? Beach High
cense plate ‘ ‘ School, and he

number to the
Richard Weaver
Driver Com-
mand Center,
receive the
o f fe n d e r ’ s
sponsor’s ad-
dress, drive to
Lee Avenue,
and slug Tom
Hespos in the
stomach (this is
assuming Tom
is the driver’s
sponsor). Tom would then relay the
message to his adopted driver not to do
something so stupid again. Another
traffic problem: solved.

Now, you may be asking yourself,
in these exact words, “Richard, what
gives you the authority to pompously
stand in judgment of other peoples’
driving abilities and to go so far as to
suggestpremeditated violence asaway

0V3)’.

One of Coach Jones’
first acts as my driving
instructor was to point
out that our car had
yellow government
plates; therefore, no
policeman could pull us

molded me into
the Supreme
Driving Au-
thority I am to-
day.

For the
course, the
school pro-
vided us with
Chevrolet Ca-
price station
wagons the size
of two Hondas
and a Hyundai
welded together. One of Coach Jones’
first acts as my driving instructor was
to point out our car had yellow govern-
ment plates; therefore, no policeman
could pull us over.

At this pointl should mention Coach
Jones was a connoisseur of fine rap
music. In fact. his driver’s ed course
required rap music, specifically M.C.
Hammer, be played atexcessively high

volume whenever we were driving.
His driving philosophy was something
like “Check your rear view mirror one
time for every bass beat.” This trans-
lated into his yelling “CHECK YOUR
REAR VIEW MIRROR ONE TIME
FOR EVERY BASS BEAT,” to which
I would respond, “WHAT? I CAN ’T
HEAR YOU!” Coach Jones would then
nod his head and look out the window.

When we drove around town Coach
Jones offered a running commentary
about 1) how stupid people are and 2)
his ex-wife. Coach Jones was also a big
fan of testing the time it took to get
from 0-60 m.p.h. in one of the station
wagons (11.8 seconds). I learned a lot
of stuff you can’t learn in a classroom
from Coach Jones.

I don’t think I need to say anything
further about my qualifications as Su-
preme Driving Authority. But I will
take the opportunity to add that we
could even involve W&L Security and
TheirTow-Truck Friends in the Adopt-
A-Driverprogram. If an adopted driver
messed up, we could have Tom Hespos’
car towed away. The possibilities for
driver improvement are limitless.

Please express your support for the
Adopt-A-Driver program today by
making a gift to the Richard Weaver
Driver Command Center, c/o The Ring-
tum Phi, University Center. Don’t you
want to make this country ’s roads safer?

I said, “DON’T YOU WANT TO
MAKE THIS COUNTRY’S ROADS
SAFER?” TURN THAT STEREO
DOWN.

Clinton’s gay policy falls short

MY VIEW

the new policy, he replied: ‘‘I said I thought [gays]
should all be lined up and shot.” Someone with so
much fear and hatred for a particular group is not to be
assuaged by the knowledge that his homosexual co-

Melissa Sawyer, ’97

President Clinton’s new policy on gays in the
military is really nothing new — and as far as
pglicymaking goes, it is marred by ambiguity. The
policy permits homosexuals to “enlist,” but prohibits
“homosexual conduct.” This standard meets neither
the demands of the gay-rights activists, not those of
the opposition. Furthennore, it fails to fulfill either of
its two goals: that military morale be preserved while
the equal rights of homosexuals are enhanced.

The foundation of the Pentagon ’s consistent oppo-
sihon to allowing homosexuals in the military has
been forwarded by repeated official statements. The
basis of these has been that allowing gays in the
military at this time would undoubtedly lower the
morale and disrupt the cohesiveness of that particular
body. The military has justified its special policy on
homosexuals for years by declaring the military to be
ahody unlike any other, governed by certain neces-
sary infringements of personal conduct, and not sub-
ject to the same doctrines of equality the general

public has come to expect.

The new policy does little to protect this “military
morale.” Homosexuals will now be allowed to de-
clare their sexuality, as long as they do not participate
inﬁny conduct to express their lifestyle. For example,
a serviceman may not be dismissed for attending a gay

bar or subscribing to gay literature.

He may, however, be subject to review ifhe is seen
engaging in any physical acts - from holding hands
with a person of the same sex to sodomy. Wouldn’t
however the mere knowledge that a fellow service-
rrgn was homosexual have a morale-lowering effect
among his homophobic peers‘? Those who fear show-
ering with homosexuals will not be spared that —
indeed, they will be more likely to know the exact

identities of their gay peers.

One serviceman, recently quoted in The New York
Times, said when he was asked what he thought about

might allay this effect.

and absolute secrecy.

workers will never openly participate in any activities
related to their orientation. There is little incentive in
the new policy for improvement of the relationship
between hetero- and homosexual servicemen that

The Clinton policy is equally unsuccessful in meet-
ing the goals of the gay-rights activist — namely, that
homosexuals in the military be permitted to openly
express their orientation. Nominally these activists
have gained some ground in that recruits can now join
the services without lying about their sexuality. They
need no longer pretend to date members of the oppo-
site sex in order to “prove” themselves, or make
clandestine visits to gay bars. These advances are
largelyinsignificant, however. It is unlikely that more,
people will feel comfortable declaring their orienta-‘'
tion, fearing they will almost certainly become the
targets of their watchful and brutal peers. The fact that
the Pentagon (under judicial, executive, and public
pressure) will now openly allow homosexuals to
serve does not ensure an end to the physical and
emotional harassment of gays by their peers.

Furthermore, the policy does not satisfy the gay-
rights activists’ desire to subject the military to those
liberties and equalities guaranteed by the Constitution
and reaffirmed repeatedly by the courts. Certainly, the
homosexuals’ right to free speech is better protected
in that they may now declare their orientation. With-
out the right to express this sexuality, however, they
are not afforded the equal protection granted to het-
erosexuals. What serviceman would be willing to
declare his homosexuality, thereby opening himself
to attacks from his peers, without being able to partici-
pate in activities related to his chosen lifestyle that
would make the declaration worthwhile?

This policy then creates a de facto silence that
varies little from the former policy of an outright ban

Enforcement ofthe new policy is problematic, and
depends specifically upon the individual officers. An

officer that is anti-gay is more likely to actively
investigate and effect the prosecution of conduct
violations, while a more liberal officer may chose to
overlook some minor violations. The rules govem-
ing conduct are further complicated by their scope:
they extend into the servicemen’s behavior both on
and off the base, thereby giving the enforcement
officers jurisdiction over every aspect of the

servicemen ’s sexual behavior and family life. Mean-

lifestyle.

83)’-

while, gay soldiers who have infringed upon the
rules and committed conduct violations are easy
prey for vengeful or blackmailing peers.

Finally, in a stroke damaging to both the activ-
ists and the opposition, the policy contains no
requirements for education, either about homo-
sexuality itself or the common fears related to that
For example, many of the prejudices
against homosexuality stem from a fear of AIDS.
Servicemen citing their fearof the disease as an
element to their homophobia continue tomistak-» .- -
enly label AIDS a gay disease -— when-in fact I
heterosexuals are equally liable to become infected.

Recent interviews of servicemen revealed they
feared transmission of the virus from their gay
colleagues through their soap or towels.
possibility is refuted by almost all of the leading
scientists in the world. Beyond the fear of AIDS,
there is a fear that homosexuality itself is a conta-
gious ailment, and the presence of gays in close
military quarters mights inﬂuence others to “turn”

This

Recent genetic research, however, has shown
homosexuality is not merely a behavioral choice —
there is a growing consensus among scientists that
our sexual orientation is inherent at birth and un-
changeable. Separatism then is not the answer to
those who fear homosexuality.

The new policy’s only major success is in that it
furthers Clinton’s political goals. It isa compro-
mise that has neither fully alienated the religious
right nor closed the door upon further pro-equality

changes. This policy then, which is acceptable to

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

How does Women’s Rush compare to men’s Rush

 

Greg Hunt, ’97, Langhome, Pa. —
“Men have more fraternities to choose
from so it takes longer and is more

eomplicated.”

Nick Polizzi, ’96, Fairfax, Va. and Phil Carrott, ’96, Kansas City, Mo. ——
“It would be nice to have girls sing to us but we’d rather have free beer for four

weeks.”

TALKBACK

 

none of the people, is acceptable to almost all ofthe
politicians.

FD date

Worried about finding an FD
date‘? Then sign up to be a contes-
tant on the Cable 2 dating game.
Sign up will be next Wednesday.
Januaryl9, and Thursday, January
20 outside the Co-op.

Lacrosse

Anyone interested in being a
manager,statisticianorcameraman
for the men’s lacrosse team this
season, please call head coach Jim
Stagnitta at 463-8678.

Calyx

Students whodid not receivetheir
Calyx in the matriculation line may
pick up their copy in Carol Calkins
office in University Center next
week, 9 am. to noon and l to 4 p.m.

Seniors

Seniors may sign up for their
(‘alyx group photos at the Co-op
next week,Jan. l7, l8,20,2l,from
I0 a.m. to 2 p.m. Any questions?
Call Sarah Butler at 463-5377 or
Anthony Catalano at 464-8814.

Health

The first meeting of the Health
Education Committee for winter
term will be Thursday, Jan. 20, at
4:30 p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center. New members are
encouragd to attend. Questions? Call
Carol Calkins at 463-8590.

Short?

Short person organizational
meetingat7p.m.onThursday,Jan.
20. For more information please

 

call Doug.Kaut'man2,at.463-79364..‘» .

This week’s General Notes were compiled by Richard Weaver.

PAGE 9 L

MLK Day

The Black Law Students Asso-
ciation invites you to participate in
the recognition of Dr. Martin Luther
King,Jr.’s birthday on Sunday,Jan.
I6, I994, at 6 p.m. Please assemble
in the main lobby entrance of Lewis
Hall at 5:50 pm. The group will
proceed to Lee Chapel by candelight
and in song for a brief program in
recognition of the holiday.

DC’s, RA’s

The deadline for dorm counse-
lor and resident assistant applica-
tions is Friday, Jan. 14. Applica-
tions should be turned in to Dean
Manning.

Film Society

The Film Society will present
Olivier, Olivier tonight and Satur-
day night at 8 p.m. in the Trouba-
dourCinema. The public is invited.
There is no admission charge.

Filmfest  

There will be an International
Filmfest on Sunday, Jan. 16 in
Northen Auditorium. The films
begin at 2 p.m. and are sponsored
by the International Club.

Rush

Alpha Phi Omega service fra-
ternity begins Rush next week. For
more information please call
Heather at 462-4392.

Open House

The International Club will host
an open house on Sunday, Jan. 15 ,
from. 2.;5:p.m.-. » .- 'H = a

.- ti»; ‘ z,‘

LDDA thanks students
for their patronage

To the editor:

We at the Lexington Downtown
Development Association (LDDA)
would like to thank the students of
Washington and Lee for making the
l2/l 2/1 2/1 2 shopping Sunday and the
other shopping days in December such
2| success. The student presence at these
Merry Lexington events were greatly
appreciated. Congratulations to sopho-
more Robin King for winningour $400

Downtown Gift Certificate.

Our additional thanks goes to the
fraternities that decorated their houses
with the many white lights, thereby‘
contributing to the traditional festive
holiday appearence of the Downtown
Lexington community. "

Sincerely,
Woodson A. Sadler
Executive Director

 

Jamie Hardman, ’94, Spencer, W.Va., and Katie Tollison, ’94, Riner, Va.
— “They’re totally opposite but we get new shirts on bid day instead of taking

them off.”

..?.|1-A

»

-.

'3
¥
4,

Kristen Berg, ’95, Marietta, Ga. ;
“Women have better singing voices."

.,i.
W
-t l

 

.-‘H

.

 

!_.

GI.‘

av‘-.

55  A A VIL 
2?». IBUPROFEN so cr.

PAGE 10

 
    
  
  
    
  
  

Hams Teeter  
MEANS IW PICES

REDUCED PRICES

BACDII-I OR
SAUSAGE

12 Oz. Reg. or Thin HT Bacon or
16 Oz. Hot or Mild HT Sausage A

 

4»

U.S.D.A. CHOICE __/

LoNno 

LIMIT 2 WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOLBO

  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 

  
 

LOW PRICES

FLORIDA “£241” 3/ 9
GRAPEFRIIIT ........ ..EACH 0

JUICY I99
CANTALOIIPE ......... ..EA.
79
99

IMPORTED I
PEACHES.  . . . . .LB.

 FLORIDA 4
I  14 LB. BAG

DIET PEPSI OR

  
   
    

irks-:It‘J .‘l‘ﬂ Ir.‘ n‘A:l'J‘l C'ﬂ'ﬂ"l‘I' u'A’.I‘1.‘5‘h‘-'1‘n'A'lr‘l qr; ran n.-

 

16-1 7
°YELLOW CUNG oFRUIT W-°" -PEAR t;"i‘€‘°"
T’-1-1--
H'I' H'I'
: HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY
|.|1' HT ORANGE
IcE CREAM 
 10.75 oz. 0

mscurrs 

. CAPLETS OR TABLETS
COMIEARE ro

HT
CAN N E D mu IT
2 LTR. 5
OZ.
PEACHES $55“ COCKTAIL HALVES
amen APPLE JUICE
LIMIT 2 WITH

SELECTED VARIETIES  16 9
J I! ICE «>4 oz-

HT .
 ‘ii°i‘iiit‘v’§°‘“ 59 9

2/ atgiﬁtéi
oz. O “

REG. OR FAT FREE PREMIUM

'I/2
,BlII'TER-IllE-N015 2/‘I00 gl T°MAT° 2/ 
ROAST BEEF LB.

.
.‘

 
:5 Prices Effective Through .lanuaryI8, 1994

Prices In ThisiAd Eiiectivﬁ WeclnescIay,J_anuary  Through Tuesday
Only.We Reserve T

Januaryl8,l'5r9 In Our.iLJix1n ton Stores

. g . .
e Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We G aciiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

SPORTS

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 199:

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Standings as of 01/10/94

Men’s Basketball
Leading Scorers
Player Pts
Cam Dyer 125
Matt Newton 88
Jon Cotifman 82
Derek Carter 82
Mark Connelly 81
Chris Couzen ‘ 7‘)

Robert Miggins 67

Leading Rebounders

Player Reb
Robert Miggins 56
Derek Carter 54
Mark Connelly 49
Cam Dyer 44
Jon Coffman 26
Chris Couzen 24
Matt Newton 18
F ree-throw Standings
Player Ft/Fta
Derek Carter 18/20
Jon Coffman 21/27
Chris Couzen 23/33
Robert Miggins 21/32
Mark Connelly 21/35
Matt Newton 21/39
Cam Dyer 18/35
Women’s Basketball
Leading Scorers
Player Pts
Sandra Holmes 60
Karen Stutzmann 54
Virginia Yoerg 54
Sarah Aschenbach 7
Nicky Mayfield 47
Amy Vogt 26
Mary Tankard 32
Stacy Williams 19
Allison Hull 23

Leading Rebounders‘;

Player Reb S

Virginia Yoerg 41
Nicky Mayfield 39
Sandra Holmes 38
Mary Tankard 29
Allison Hull 24
Karen Stutzman 22
Amy Vogt 19

i—'[\)l\J-£>«bUiU1> 
. . . . . . . < \,C_NNoc.
oo4>ox~c»o4>o~0° ova

Av

.90

.778
.697
.656
.600
.539
.514

g»g.og»_4>jJmjJwjm> 5*’P‘.4>§".°‘.\‘.\‘.\‘.°°-E
oo,_.A___go.\o0§ ozoco\ro\ic\i\iox(,¢

Free-throw Standings

Player Ft/Fta Avg
Stacy Williams 5/7 .714
Karen Stutzmann 8/12 .667
Amy Vogt 4/6 .667
Virginia oerg 10/15 .667
Sarah Aschenbach 3/5 .600
Sandra Holmes 12/21 .571
Mary Tankard . 6/11 .546
Wrestling
Records
Player Record Wt.
Adam Branson 4-4 118, 126
Anthony Raﬂa 1-2 126
Eric Shirley 3-4 134, 126
Rob de Clerk 1-2 134
Adam Williams 4-4. 142
Cary Hansel 1-2 142
Steve Tye 4-5 150
Owen Smith 3-6 158
Lea Abercrombie 2-3 167
Colin Loomey 4-6 177
Cole Van Nice 6-5 190
Records

Player Tkdwns Reversals
Adam Branson 6/10 2/4
Anthony Rafla 1/6 1/2
Eric Shirley 3/10 1/0
Rob de Clerk 6/3 0/1
Adam Williams 11/20 2/1
Cary Hansel 0/1 1 3/0
Steve Tye 7/18 5/2
Owen Smith 12/10 2/8
Lea Abercrombie 1/6 1/3
Colin Loomey 9/11 1/1
Cole Van Nice 12/7 4/10

Men’s and Women’s Basketball
Attendance Statistics

Men
Team Record 4-6
Cumulative Attendance 3683
Home 2285
Away 1398
Total Average Attendance 386
Women
Team Record 3-4
Cumulative Attendance 972
Home 325
Away 647
Total Average Attendance 139

-Washington and Lee
Team Records
(updated for 01/14/94)

Women’s Swimming
Men’s Swimming
Men’s Basketball
Women’s Basketball
Wrestling

Overall 17-13

Sports moment 0’ the week...

Photo by Sarah Gilbert. The Ring-tum Phi

This swimmer unadvertantly caught throwing her weight around won the award for the

photogenic athlete of the week for Jan. 14, 1994.

 

  

9l'he Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1994

‘More ice follies; nothing
happens fast in football

PAGE 11'

B-ball over Lynchburg;
equals ’92-’93 win total

day, the Giants did their job and put the well.
AWAY GAMES Vikings out of their misery. Maybe this yearthe Superbowl will White made a foul shot for the ﬁnal mar in after W&L
9 BY STEPHEN WILUARD On the other end of the playoff actually be interesting. After all, how 4 By KEITH GRANF g

Thanks to the wonders of the Na-
zional Football League scheduling (and
noney grubbing), we were treated to a
series of games this past weekend that
have no bearing on the playoffs what-
soever. Those Raiders are a real pow-
erhouse, just ask Cincinnati (for those
of you who were not keeping track, the
Raiders ended the BENGALS WATCH
this year by losing to the vaunted cats
for the Bengals’ first win). Also, the
National Football Conference has

Himed out a Superbowl winner, but the
’85 Bears remain the only NFC Central
team to accomplish that feat in the last
20-or-so years.

At least Green Bay and Detroit
mercifully played each other. That
way, at least one Central team was

(lliminated right off the bat. The next

spectrum, the American Football Con-
ference title game should pit the Buf-
falo Bills against the Houston Oileis in
a rematch of last year’s strange game.
To win the Superbowl, the Oilers will
have to equal the longest winning streak
in NFL history with 14 wins. The
Houston team has something to prove
after last year’s ﬁasco (the Oilers blew
a 35-3 second-half lead).

The NFC (besides, of course, what
Chris Bennan calls the NFC Norris
division) should once again provide
some interesting games.

The 49ers have one of the most
potent offenses in the game with QB
Steve Young, wide outs Jerry Rice,
John Taylor, et al., and the Cowboys
have Emmitt Smith, enough said. New
York gave Dallas all they could handle
in the last game ofthe regular season as

 

 

\ o \ ‘o‘t\'o'n‘o‘n'o'A\'¢'I\'o'A\'o'A

long can the AFC continue to lose?

So that this does not get too terribly
monotonous, I will move to the realm
of college basketball.

This past week saw the top ﬁve in
the polls completely re-worked. Ar-
kansas somehow managed to lose to
Alabama, Kentucky lost to Georgia,
and North Carolina lost to Georgia
Tech.

The Duke Blue Devils would have
become the next number one team if
they could have beaten Wake Forest
last night. The Devils lost on a bizarre
three point basket at the end of the
game. Clinging to a 68-66 lead,
Randolph Childress shot what appeared
to be a three point basket. The signal
from the referees was unsure at best,
and the scoreboard did not change.
Duke coach Mike Kryzewski, thinking
that the score was tied, did not call a
time-out and a Grant Hilljumper at the
buzzer rimmed out.

The Devils have responded to the
loss of Bobby Hurley and Thomas Hill
by bringing in Eric Capel and Greg
Newton as freshmen. Cherokee Parks
is finally living up to the his initial
expectations. The Devils should con-
tinue to put together a solid season.

Parting Shots-

How did Carolina manage to lose to
Georgia Tech by 20 points? l know GT
is good, but still, what happened?

University of Maryland freshman
Joe Smith is in the top five in the nation
in scoring among freshmen, yet was
barely mentioned in pre-season Atlan-
tic Coast Conference freshman of the
year polls. Maybe the guy’s trying to
prove a point‘?

else to write about so I’m going to end
with that. Oh. by the way. the moral for
the week. is: if youre going to knock
21 competitor out of the competition.
don’t get caught.
Au revolt...

Phi Staff Writer

The welcome sign at the Lynchburg city limits will
likely soon read “Generals Go Home.”

For the third year in a row, Washington and Lee
claimed the rights to the Turner Gymnasium with a
victory that stunned the home Lynchburg College fans.
The win is a key one in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference standings for W&L (5-7, 3-4 ODAC).

W&L defeated the Hornets 70-67 Wednesday night in
a game in which the Generals trailed by eight with three
minutes left. A vision of senior Robert Miggins will now
haunt Turner Gym along with those of previous Hornet-
killers Bob Ehret and junior Mark Connelly.

Miggins scored four of his 15 points in the final 29
seconds to lift the Generals to the victory
that matches the team’s overall and con-
ference win totals of last season. Sopho-
more Cam Dyer had a game-high 20
points while the team held Lynchburg’s
top scorer, Anthony Cummings, to just
10 points.

“lt’s always big to win one on the
road, especially a conference game,”
said head coach Verne Canfield.

Washington and Lee had suffered
back-to-back defeats to Roanoke and
Mary Washington before beating
Lynchburg. The Generals’ 73-66 loss
versus Roanoke on Saturday, Jan. 8,
ended a three-game winning streak by
W&L. The Generals gave the confer-
ence-leading Maroons a run for their
money by fighting back from 10- and l l-point deficits in
that game to pull within two late in the game.

Although it was a loss, the Roanoke game was the
fourth consecutive strong performance by W& L, a streak
that ended Monday, Jan. 10, at Mary Washington.

The Eagles entered that game 1-5 on the season, with
their lone win coming against Shenendoah. However,
Mary Washington was fired up for the Generals and

W&L rally eventually evened the score at 57 in the final
minute, but with the game-clock at l 4 and the shot-clock
about to hit zero. the Eagles’ Jeremy White nailed a
three-point shot to bring the capacity crowd to its feet.

 

CAM DYER

failed on a three-point try. He had a game-high 14
points.

One factor that hurt the Generals was an off-night by
leading scorer Dyer. The sophomore was held without
a point in the ﬁrst-half. Although he made some tough
baskets during the Generals comeback, he finished
with a four-of-13 shooting night.

“Cam has stepped up nicely as a sophomore,” said
Canfield. “He has to realize, though, that as a team’s
leading scorer, defenses will step up against him.”

Dyer was obviously not discouraged by the Mary
Washington game, though. He attempted 21 shots from
the field in his 20-point, six-rebound effort. Miggins
grabbed nine rebounds and has 19 points, 19 boards,
and ﬁve blocked shots in the last two games.

The W&L—Lynchburg affair was tied at half-time at
Turner Gym. The Hornets came
out buzzing and looked as though
they had finally broken the home-
court General-Ginx. [The previ-
ous two W&L visits to Lynchburg
resulted in buzzer-beating, game-
winning Generals’ baskets.]
Lynchburg led by as many as nine
and had an eight-point advantage
with three minutes remaining.
That’s about when the Generals
must have said “Oh, are we play-
ing in Lynchburg?" Two minutes
later, the contest was tied and
WLUR announcer Brian Logue
(who is the W&L Sports Informa-
tion Directorin hissparetime)was
having flashbacks to the previous
two trips to Lynchburg College.

The Hornets’ Wilbert Steppe, an 89 percent free
throw shooter, missed on two foul shots with 49 sec-
onds left. Twenty seconds later, Miggins drove from
the top ofthe key and made the lay-up for a two-point
Generals lead.

Lynchburg point-guard Jay Gentry then threw the
ball out of bounds and Miggins followed with two free

p Sfvemed ‘0 Conslslemly 0Ul‘"3b0U“d and 0Ul‘hU5“e 3 throwsforafour-pointlead.AfteraCummings basket.
f ""PP°“"”‘*.“”‘j Swmeastem Con‘ team ‘hat W35 qulckl)’ becoming lal“°“5 ml husll‘? W&L’effective|y moved the ball around to prevent the
 Coach Canfield Said the players went ll'llO the game as If HQ[ne[s from being able [0 Stop [he Clock  a fgul
‘ . . . the)’ expected ‘0 bl0W'0”‘ the Eagle-55 until there was only one second left. Freshman Chris
undefeated m Corlferellce play‘ Thmgs “What 0”’ guys dldnll realize ‘"35 ‘hat 0”’ big game Couzen hit one-of-two free throws for the three-point
375” ‘eX3C”)’~g“'"8 615 eXPeC‘°d 3‘ “"5 was against Roanoke. but Mary Washington’s big game victory margin
POT;/’ Tlhg H I , h. k f h. W33 US,” ll‘? 5359- i The Generals will next host Randolph—Macon Col-
‘ C ‘ e ‘ can It In 0 any‘ mg Mar)’ washmglo” led bl’ 35 m3”.V 35 l4 befme 3 la“? lege Saturday afternoon in the Warner Center at 3:00.

The Yellow-Jackets feature the ODAC’s top three-
point threat but have been struggling some this season.
The WLUR broadcast of the game will be carried only
over Cable Two.

.. .. .. ..

   
  
  
  

 

    

 

      

 
  

    
  
    

  
  

 
 

   

  

 

    
   
  
  

 

 
  

  

 r _ \ i----SUNSET SPECIAL COUPON--—.
A1V1n-Denr11s, Inc, For Sale. Brother Word Processor . , We cordially invite you to try our I
102 W. Washington St. > Brand New and Price Negotiable : _ ,,Wir_2t_er Sunset .Special_Ent_r_ees  N 
:3, ; :5 Call 4624869 _ I Buy 1 Sunset,»Special Entree, Get 1 I
g1§¢ﬂ¢WINTER SALE IN PRoGREss:>I<=  L r 2 . FREE! ,
" 4  &   or : %*;.::::£f;33.*t:::~.$,°rZ.:‘:.4;;.':‘;..15‘:,::;;?.::: :
Sweatcrs 20% Off  '¢ I Soap or Salad, Selection of 3 entrees, fresh vegetable, I
DFCSS Pa11tS_20‘5Q% Off I Ch0lC€ of rice or potato, wheat rolls, homemade muffins |
Rugby & Chamois Shirts 30% Off 2345a‘!/ldltt I and beverage. . |
Spbrtshirts   " I Take advantage of our ex;,err:1de,t:l) gagaagymsunset Special Hours 5:30 I
DICSS T01) COINS    : (Reservations Requested) I
Outerwear Jackets 20% Off --  , 1  on God for U to 6 co ,6 :
GlOV€S & Scarves 30% Off ha” /i /' | This coupoiinotgvalid withpany oFt)hei)coupon. I 
Saturday Morning- All U Can Eat Pancakes I Expires: I/31/94 ;
100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos.For Sale Daily Specials- 24 Hour—A—Day Breakfast T our Wednesda Aﬁemoon Tea 3_5 m
Cummerbunds, Jewelry, Tux Shirts & Flasks Meals That Cater to Big Appetites W “V - P’ '
Breakfast Buffet   special Group Rates
Visa MC Student Charge Friday and Saturday Nights 11p.m.- 4 a.m. WI LLSO N~ Iiiil Em Ii“ Casual Dress
463-5383 Sunday 9 a.m.- 2 p.m. W A L K E R h   4633020
 Rt. 11 North 463-3478 Open 24 Hours  l‘‘=!i!”''''!i! 30 N- M646
V at
Point of VW Rweﬁve
. . . €€
 Signatures; Two are War Date. ’
. W&L c 1 t , h d- 1 d 5
Restaurant plus light lounge menu W&L andoI§.Il2:3e.rII.)eae iimifeld efiirigfr art ;
, , Sculpture by Ron Tuntson ;
‘ Open 4 p.m. until closing May and Gecrge Washington pieces :‘
$2 off any pasta dinner with V‘, @ ' ' E
 %   4 East Washln on Street 
student I.D. I:  Lexmgton. vA 4450 ::
«- Don’t You Dare Go Bare (766) 464-6464 3
Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn   i)c‘>"2rr.1rr1i’.I‘3r%d;§¥i ifrfriurday 
K  , aravans K. 
o rC”“‘'’'"“’ 6%) 3 I #T T ' l I 3 ii EZ.:(;ARD- ‘Box. T-631-6 A'l“-L;1;"I‘1-K’.-(ETA-3-();2-1.’.%"
_ Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards. , - - -.
—_ NOW Showing 1 Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  l VISA’, 3‘ Cred“ 1: 
WE'RE BACK: accepted credit cards In the world...VIsa0 and Mastercarde I g “"“" MAS’ ‘Wm’ ;; 
A Dinosaurs story crcdltC(:g:|Sﬁ:'ln EVEN i£DYggwA!iq2%gFEg2Ig : Caidsappmved immediately. 1oo% GUARANTEED! A 3..
O!‘ IURN I , 7
‘ Sat., Sun;?1:t45,::30, 5:15; VISA!’ and MasterCard0 the credit cards you I ; 
3 ed deserve and need for—— ID-—B0OKS—DEPANR!;‘EL:1r!}2rl\fl‘ | NAME 6, pa
. STORES-—1UlTlON—ENTl-ZRTAI — . 3. jlj.
My Llfe  - 46664686 2-:
Daily 7:00 a. 9:30 REPAlRS—AND TO Btnw your: CREDIT RATING! I CITY STATE _ZIP = 
“ale” “"3 : STUDENT? Yes No 553! ; 3':
g g No turn downs! _ '1"
Gg§I”‘::“c§F9 No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE ':
gulls“. M‘: No security deposit! ' mm Masteicud Isa registered uuderrnnruruazerurd lntcmatloml. Inc. 4
. “G”, 50“ ‘'6 I Visa is . registered tndcnmk dV|SA USA. Inc. and VISA inuemuorai I .~
261-7292 ' Si-:un THE coupon room | 't-I
275 BeechAve., Buenavista YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE HAITING! L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _§-4.

 

  

Last Week:

VWBB—W&L 66, Sweetbriar 2'0
MBB—W&L 70, Lynchburg 67

Swim—M&W defeat

Buffalo St.

Wr_est—beat West. Md., lose two

V PAGE 12

.\‘,,_.\,~.,‘.,.,-.....---.-----—..».-

Bundle up
this Winter

 on SPORTS
er SARAH Gnasgr

 

 


‘ ing unusually cold "arr_d_
snowy, ‘ this week the

    

winter. sport . options. ‘lI1._ j
the area. 
Rockbtidge County
is not exactly a haven for
thosehopingto getaway
from the tiresome sun of
Miami Beach, or a con-
sideration for the ’98
Winter Olympics site
(too bad, because i bet
there are hundreds. of
local residents who
would probably have
agreed to bash
someone’s legs for a
minimum amount of
money, maybe even a
free pitcher of beer. it ‘
could have been excit- — 1
ing.), but the diligent. - v
may be able totrack ’
down some viable fop- f
tiorls. : ’ S
siding. ‘ t 1  
~U'n‘6eknow.nSt to‘
many:i.nexperiencecIs_ki‘- , _
ers, Washington a‘nd;Lee * ‘ ‘
has a lovely little pro-
gram in which students
pay $78 to-go skiingsix
timesforcredit.'Fhiscost
includes lessons, lift
tickets and ski rental.
This is a good deal.
If you-do not believe
me, check out the prices
forjust one outing with-
out the lovely little pack-
age deal; it could run you
more than half of that
fee just for one day of
fun in the snow. '
Of course, the dead-
line for addingcourses
has passed, buta. simple
, $25feewi1toonvinc.ethe

-lovely. «.1a.d2ijes 1 in - the
registra.r’s.o£f"1ce to fork
over the credit, and you
still‘ are getting a bar-
gain. '

   

 E fma'rid'atory "for-
 .‘1.¢_lIlg'f11'!‘§S and mid-
» _ tit‘ walks whenwthe
_ meTrc<rry“isapi>r0a<:hiI1’g
‘ zero, as -it might do‘thi:s.
’weekend.
it may be better to
confine one’sexercise to
wgeights and squash; if
you must run, Virginia
Military institute has an
indoor track.
Btmdic up, Generals.
it is cold out there.

 

S

@112 ﬁling-mm Iﬁhi

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

This Week:

MBB-Randolph-Macon 01/ 15
WBB—at Mary Washington 01/ 15
Swim—at Catholic 01/ 15 0*
Track—at Lynchburg 01/ 15

JANUARY 14, 1994

Women shoot toward win column

By BILL RUST
Phi Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team
has won three of its last four
games to bring the record to a
strong 5-4.

Thursday night, the Generals
demolished the sorry Sweetbriar
Vixens, 66-20.

Freshman Virginia Yoerg led
the way, scoring more than one-
third ofthe team’s points with 23
and 14 in the first half.

However, the win was re-
markably balanced, in that every
General but one scored in the
game.

Yoerg now leads the Gener-
als with 86 points.

Sophomore Sandra Holmes,

and senior Karen Stutzman lead
the team in its 43-41 upset of
Sewanee last Tuesday. Holmes
scored 10, and led the team in
rebounds with 10, while

Stutzman scored a team high 14
points.

The Lady Generals were
down, 33-35, with seven min-
utes to go, when Holmes hit two
important free throws to tie the

score at 35-all.

Washington and Lee, with the
helpofasix-pointshootingspree,
held on to defeat Sewanee 43-
41.

The Lady Generals had an
easier time last Saturday against
the Wesley Wolverines. The team
made the long trek to Dover,
Delaware well worth it with a48-
38 win.

The Wolverines came within
two in the second half, but sopho-
more Stacy Williams scored three
to solidify the Generals’ lead.

Yoerg led the team with nine
points, and senior Mary Tankard
led with 10 boards.

W&L had four players score
eight points or more in that con-
test. Holmes, Tankard, Williams

and Yoerg all had a hand in scor-

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Phi

A member of the women’ s swimming team, which is currently undefeated, swims the path of greatest resistance in the Cy Twombly pool this
week. The Generals will seek to continue their streak at Catholic Jan. 15.

By 5'll-.l’lll-..N Wll,l.|.1\l{l)

I’/vi Assitun1Sporis Editor

Dedication is often what sepa-
rates the great uthlclc from the
average athlete. With the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams, dedica-
tion is what keeps them ahead of
the opposition.

Bothsquads keptuptheirwin-
ning ways on Wednesday night
with wins against Buffalo State.
With the wins, W&L swimmers
remained undefeated on the year
(men- 2-0, women- 4-0). Coach
Paige Remillard saidthattheteam
should continue to improve as
the season wears on.

Both swim teams have put in
Ircmcndous amounts of work
during rhc course of the season.
“l’m very impressed with their
cffort, " said Remillard as he
described the training practices
of the two teams. According to

the mcn‘s coach, the swimmers
worked harder over break than
they do during school.

Coach Remillard especially
praised swimmer Tony Diedrich
for his recent performances.

“He is the consensus most-
improved,” said Remillard ofthe
streaking swimmer. Diedrich
recently set 21 lifetime best in a
meet, an unusual feat fora swim-
mer in January.

The men’s team has suc-
ceeded despite a series of inju-
ries. Junior co-captain Grant
Holickey went down to a pos-
sibleseason-ending shoulderin-
jury recently.

Also, DavidStillmanand.lohn
Rowe have succumbed to viruses.
“Without a senior class, losses
affect the team more dramati-
cally,” said Remillard.

Coach Remillard praised the
commitment of both teams by
alluding to the fact that the ath-
letes often missed breaks due to

training and meets. “The sacri-
ficc is rewarded by relationships
and experience,” said the coach.
Remillard said that since sports
compete with so many other
things, it is sometimes difficult
to maintain focus.

Success has been the story for
both teams this year. The
women’s team has won 18 con-
secutive Old Dominion Athletic
Conference meets over the past
few years.

Last year, the women won
every event they entered in the
conference meet, but because of
a lack of numbers, were not able
to claim victory as a team.

This year, the women have
added much needed depth and
are the early favorites to take the
conference title.

Coach Remillard was quick
to complement the women.

“The women are my favor-
ites to win the conference. l
believe that they will dominate

the top spots,” said coach
Remillard. Whenthe final tallies

Swimmers remain undefeated;
women’s ODAC streak at 18

are taken, both squads should be
at or near the top of the heap.

    

>2

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Hing-tum Phi

Both men and women swimmers were working hard
this week to continue in their winning ways.

Washington and /Lee
Team Records

Women’s Swimming
Men’s Swimming
Men’s Basketball
Women’s Basketball
Wrestling
Overaﬂ

ing big for the win.

The team did not fare so well
on its trip to Virginia Beach. Tﬁe
Generals lost to Virginia
Wesleyan 80-33.

On the up side, junior Sarah
Aschenbach led W&Lwith seven
points in her Generals debut.

The Lady Generals travel to
Mary Washington this Saturday
for their next contest.

Wrestlers
struggle, ..
win once

By STEPHEN WlLLlARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

 

Returning from break can
sometimes mean a letdown in
performance, but the Washing-
ton and Lee wrestling team over-
came the letdown this past week-
end in the Western Maryland
Quadrangular. 0

During the weekend, junior
Eric Shirley contributed three
wins as W&L posted its first win
of the season against Western
Maryland.

Lea Abercrombie also en-
tered in a key 4-3 victory in [re
match.

in the other two matches, the
Generals lost to Johns Hopkins
24-16 and to Messiah 31-9.
Against Hopkins, Shirley, Rob

de Clerk, Adam Williams. Owen '

Smith, and Colin Looney all won.
According to Rob de Clerk.
“There were a lotofclose matches
that could have gone eitherway."
The Generals look forward to
a home meet this weekend against
Davidson and Pensacola Chris-
tian in the W&L Triangular. .

“We feel like we had a good
week of practice and will do well
this weekend,” said junior wres-
tler Eric Shirley.

Washington and Lee has
shown great depth in the middle-
weight division so far this sQa-
son. The team is young (there are
only three juniors on the team)
and expects to improve.

“We’re pretty young and
should improve as the season
moves on,” said sophomore Rob
de Clerk. g

When asked, both do Clerk
and Shirley said that they expect
the team to improve as the season
moves along.

The W&Lwrestling squad has
put forth the dedication that is
necessary to produce a winning
performance. This team shou d
be competitive throughout the
season.

J OCKSHORTS

 

Track & Field

Both the men and the women
indoor track and field teams be-
- gin their seasons this weekend as
they travel to Lynchburg for an
open, unscored meet. .

This meet, Jan. 15, will be the
first step as the Generals quest
for the indoor Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Champion-
ship.

The men placed third last year,
and will be led by captains Scﬁtt
Covey, Todd Burkey and John
Robinson, all seniors.

Sophomore Dax Mahoney,
however, won the highest honors
last year as he was awarded the
Outstanding Performer honor at
the 1993 outdoor ODAC Cham-
pionship.

The woman’s team is at an
unusual place; the Generals are
still struggling with an unofficial
ODAC sport. though Washing-
ton and Lee routinely captures
the unofficial indoor champio3-
ship.

The women are led this year
by captains, senior Wendy Neel
andjunior Kim Herring. Sopho-
more Josephine Schaefferiscom-
ing off an All-American season
in cross country and hopes 0
repeat her trip to Nationals in
track last year. where she was
awarded All-American honors
with a second place finish in the
l0.0()()-meter run.

A strong class of freshmen
and the return ofall of last year’s
school-record-holders shou d
guarantee the Generals a repeat
of last year‘s unofficial indoor
championship.

This ycar‘s indoor ODAC
Championships will be held Feb.
26 at L} nchhurg.

Q

 

 

