OLUMENo.12
1 emper
I elps
students

By DEBORAH ZOLLMANN
Phi Staff Writer

rlier this month, each mem-
ber of the freshman class found
something surprising in his post
office box... mail.

The university sent letters in-
forming the class of 1997 that
they were eligible to apply to
pa icipate in the Kemper Foun-
dat n Scholarship Program.

Ken Ruscio, associate dean
of the Commerce School and
campus coordinator of the pro-
gram, said this is a very selective

‘ program. Approximately twelve

colleges in the nation are asked
to farticipate.

John DeCourcey, director of
ﬁnancial aid, describes the pro-
gram as “_a feather in W&L’s cap

‘ that we get asked to participate

in this program.” This is W&L’s
third year of involvement.

9\pplications are available in
Room 203 of the Commerce
School and are open to all fresh-
men. Applications are reviewed
and a portion of the applicants
are chosen to be interviewed.
From this pool, three students
ardnominated by W&L as can-
didates for the Kemper Scholar-
ship. A representative from the
Kemper Foundation comes to
W&L in January to interview
these three candidatehnd make
the ﬁnal decision. The Kemper
sclplar keeps the scholarship for
his four years at W&L, provided
he remains in good academic
standing.

The recipient beneﬁts from
the scholarship in two ways.
First, there is an annual scholar-
sh'p which ranges $1,500 to
$5,000 depending on ﬁnancial
need. Second, there is a guaran-
teed summer internship at entry-
level salary with one of the
Kemper companies.

W&L has two Kemper schol-
a -in-residence. They are jun-
io eth Provanzana and sopho-
more Matt Mazzuchi.

Provanzana is an economics/
romance languages major. In
her ﬁrst summer as a Kemper
scholar, she worked in an insur-
ance ofﬁce in Denver, Colorado.
L£t summer, she worked at

Kemper’s security ﬁrm in Chi- »

cago, IL.

Mazzuchi is a business
admionistration/economics ma-
jor. Last summer, he worked in
an'auto insurance company in
Slzramento, CA. A

Ruscio, Provanzana, and
Mazzuchi all stressed that fresh-
men with even only a remote
interest in business are eligible
for this scholarship. A major in
business is not required.

.4.

LEITN, VA 94455 

itrw 1 71993‘

I tied a ribbon
because".

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

photo by Tom Hespos, The Ring-tum Phi

Chi Psi pledges provide their version of “Masterpiece Theatre,” just one of the acts
gonged fairly quickly in Kappa Alpha Theta’s Gong Show held Wednesday night in the
Pit. Beta Theta Pi walked away with the victory with their lip-synch version of “Daisy
Dukes.” Betas dressed in cut-off jean shorts and women’s clothing and makeup for the

act, which received a score of 24.6.

Don’t get gonged

By .IAY WHITE
Phi~Contributing writer

The fourth annual Kappa Alpha Theta spon-
sored Gong Show was held on Wednesday night at
7:30 in the Pit.

According to Theta President Jenn Ciocca, the
event beneﬁts their National Philanthropy. The
three dollar admission price and the$25 entrance
fee will go to the Rockbridge Area Recreation
Organization (RARO) and the Court Appointed
Special Advocates (CASA).

RARO involves area children in after school
sporting activities. CASA is instrumental in help-
ing children who come from broken homes. Frater-
nities and sororities are often contributors to the
cause, as are local businesses who contribute the
door prizes.

The judges this year were Professor Brian
Richardson of the Journalism School, Professor
Taylor Sanders of the History department, and
Professor George Bent of the Art History depart-
ment.

There were 10 entries in this year’s Gong Show.
First was Sigma Phi Epsilon . Their’ skit was not
gonged and therefore the judges decided on a
score. Sig Ep achieved an overall score of 21.643.

Next came Sigma Chi with a kazoo act. All is
said by the fact that one of the judges tried to gong
each of the Sigma Chi participants.

Phi Psi followed with their version of “Baby
Got Back”. They, too, were gonged.

Kappa Sigma performed their version of a song

room at 2 a.m.”.

by Spinal Tap next . Again, one of the judges tried
to gong each person.

Beta Theta Pi then livened up the crowded Pit
with their version of “Daisy Dukes”. The act sur-
vived the gong to boast a score of 24.6.

Pi Phi had a hard act to follow, but they at-
tempted to do so with their rendition of “Deep
Thoughts”. Much to the dismay of the crowd, they
were gonged.

Kappa Alpha and Phi Delta Theta joined to
perform a skit that was so intent in its message that
it went overthe heads of most of the audience. Even
the judges demonstrated their awe by gonging
them directly.

Chi Psi perforemd a rather racy version of
Masterpiece Theater next and met the same fate as
its predecessor. -

The last fraternity entry was from Sigma Nu.
They attempted to sweep the audience away with a
soulful blues song. It was noted that the audience
was rather anti-blues at the time, as were the
judges.

The ﬁnal act came from Kappa Alpha Theta.
Theta spiced up the song “Wipeout” with some
nifty choreography. They survived the gong and
received a score of 20.8.

Members of the audience received door prizes
ranging from a Dave Matthews CD to a manicure.
But the real prizes were given out to at the end of
the show. Phi Delt and KA got an award for the
quickest gong. Phi PSi came in second runnner-
up, Sig Ep first runner-up. The winner was Beta
Theta Pi. Beta received $100 for their
wonderful performance.

She ﬁled a report with the Lexington Police, but

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 Howison hosts

NOVEMBER 19, 1993

minority talks

By IJDURRAINE TIGAS
Phi Staff Writer

Anece McCloud, associate
dean of students, and David
Howison, dean of students, are

people ofdifferent backgrounds.”

Howison found that “each
group had a different focus,” but
the common theme was “a better
understandingoftheseissueswill
lead to a better atmosphere at

Brady points to the low num-
ber of black students in the class
of 1997 as an indication that
“more needs to be done to in-
crease minority applicants and to
keep minority students here.”

I home three times over the last

according to Howison, is “to ex-

seeking input from students on W&L,”
minority life at Washington and
Lee. .

The two deans have held dis-

cussions at Dean Howison’s

two months.

Dean Howison said the idea
came to them last spring when
theyvwere developing goals for
the coming year. .

The purpose of the meeting speak freely.
plore ways to support black stu-
dents... and to ﬁnd creative ways
to do that.”

Howison also hopes that
through these discussions, stu-
dents will learn to “deal with

Ayanna Brady,
president of the Mi-
nority Students As-
sociation at W&L
and one of the stu-
dent participants,
said the meetings had
“an informal, com-
fortable feeling” that
allowed everyone to

According
Bryan King, another
student participant,
the meetings got
“very intense at the
end,” but there was “nothing bit-
ter” in the discussions.

There will
be a fourth
meeting after
Thanksgiving
break with all
of the previous
studentpartici-
pants attend-
ing.

Howison
hopes that the
fourthmeeting
to will result in
more definite
plans, a “com-
mon purpose
between the
students,” and “some sense of
direction.”

Howison

Atkins speaks...

Dean predicts strong Greek system

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer ,

The controversial Men’s Panel sponsored its
ﬁrst speaker Monday night to speak about the
fraternity system. '

Dean of Students for Greek Affairs Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins said that the fraternities may even
grow stronger as longas the members take their
responsibilities seriously.

The Men’s Panel was “formed to preserve the
men’s heritage at W&L” and to discuss men’s
issues, said founding member Lloyd Peoples. Dean
Atkins spoke on “The Future of Men’s Fraternities
at W&L.”

Atkins said that one of the greatest dangers to
fraternities and W&L itself is that they sometimes
become so bound by tradition that they forget the
true purpose of their organizations.

W&L is unique in that over 85 percent of men
are in fraternities. Other schools rarely draw such
a percentage into their Greek systems. Atkins,
however, said that the greatest number of alumni
complaints concerned the fraternities. He said that
in the past the complaints had stemmed from the
bad appearance of and lack of respect for the
houses, and the unusual social traditions.

In the 1980s, Atkins said, universities nation-
wide were making their atmospheres inhospitable
to fraternities because of the highly negative pub-
licity that seemed to surround the organizations.
W&L, however, wanted to preserve the fraternity
system and acknowledged its debt to the fratemi-
ties.

Fraternities gave students a place to live and eat
when W&L gave up its residential buildings and
converted them into classrooms. Atkins said that
the fraternities helped and continue to help the
university to meet academic needs by decreasing

the need for school-sponsored social functions.
“lt’s not much different now in terms of social
V life,” Atkins said. “The University really does owe
the fraternities a lot.”

The fraternity system has been a hidden eco-
nomic beneﬁt to W&L for years because the frater-
nities are an external cost. They provide the basis
for W&L’s social life and some academic beneﬁts
that are paid for through tuition at other universi-
ties.

Atkins said Fraternity Renaissance is not over:
the renovations and physical improvements are
complete, but the Renaissance will continue to
promote traditional values and positive aspects of
fraternity life. Atkins noted that many of the
fraternities do not currently live up to the values
their system is based upon, especially that of aca-
demic excellence.

Atkins said to strengthen the fraternities, the
older members need to concentrate more on teach-
ing the underclassmen how to succeed academi-
cally and socially. He said brothers need to help
freshman especially “not to behave like a five-
year-old that just discovered beer.”

The W&L policies towards fraternities are con-
sistent with the national chapter policies, although
the university is moving more slowly on reforms.
For example, the nationals want to enforce the 2] -
year-old drinking age and their risk-management
policies, while the university has taken few steps in
that direction. Atkins noted that the administration
should “provide continuity and guidance.” The
administration has no plan if the fraternities be-
come vacated, and plans to continue the current
system.

Atkins said that eventually W&L will add
student facilities that will relieve some of the
pressure on fraternities to provide the social life.

I->See ATKINS, Page 2

Sexual assault hits home on _W&L’s campus

Part one ofa two part series

. By MICHELLE BRIEN

Phi News Editor

Lyrae VanClief was in her room, asleep.
There was a knock at the door. Loud, at two
in the morning. Her door was locked.

“Who is it?”

. A friend responded, a male student she had
known and trusted since she started school a
few months before. It was then the ﬁrst week in
winter term of her freshman year.

She got up and let him in.

“Hey, what’s up? How are you? What are
you doing out so late,” Lyrae asked.
“l’m ﬁne. I just thought I’d come by and

talk,” he said. V
“Are you drunk?”
“No.”

Lyrae invited him to come in. He sat down.

Then he raped her.

had, and that they had sex.

no, no, no,” Lyrae said.
been raped.

confront him.

“I got two friends to walk with me to his
fraternity. I just wanted an answer. I wanted to

know why.

head tricks with me. -

Lyrae said she talked to a girlfriend the next
day. Her friend asked her if he had come by,
saying that he had asked her for Lyrae’s room
number earlier that evening. Lyrae said that he

“I told her that we had sex, but that I kept
saying no, stop it, what about your girlfriend,

Lyrae said she couldn’t admit that she had

After talking to her girlfriend she decided to

“He tried to convince me to calm down and
go to a basketball game with him. He knew I
was in such a confused position he could play

“I didn’t realize how scared I was [of him]
until he got up and moved toward me. I was like

did not press charges.

what was wrong with him.”

“Decisions —— I wasn’t making any deci-
sions.” Lyrae said. “I just wanted to know why,

Lyrae chose to confront her attacker through

the University mediation system. She spoke
with Dean Anece McCloud, the University

mediator in cases of sexual assault, and to-

gether they faced her attacker.

“That’s all I did as far as [discipline],” she

said. “I just wanted to know what was wrong. I

talked to administration because I wanted them

to know what happened at W&L.

“He never denied it,” Lyrae said. “He would

admit it and cry. That was his whole thing. He’d

him.”

“I had no feeling he’d be dangerous. He’d
always been helpful. He was always the person
who would make sure my friends and I got
home safely (from fraternity parties). He was
the Big Brother of one of my girlfriends. A big
man on campus. He had just been elected presi-
dent of his class.

“I trusted him enough to let him into my

— ” Lyrae shuddered and made a jerking mo-
tion with her body. “I backed away from him.

“Later that night I called my mom. I wasn’t
going to tell her but she figured it out. Then all
hell broke loose.”

Lyrae decided not to bring her attacker be-
fore the Conﬁdential Review Committee, which
was the Washington and Lee judicial body for
dealing with cases ofsexual assault at that time.

call my girlfriends and cry. Once I decided on
mediation I wasn’t supposed to have contact
with him. But he got my friends to comfort

Lyrae said that he gained her friends’ sym-
pathy by calling them saying, ‘I can’t believe I
did this, I’m so sorry.’

“Everybody was like, gosh Rae. God, he’s
really sorry.”

“That made things hard for me; the fact that
they were friends with him and he was calling
[them] up being Mr. Miserable.”

He went on normally while Lyrae grew

I->See ASSAULT, Page 3

i.Vi‘8315i3.’2T8Ch.

— W hschooistrtuctt
showedzerojreports ,
" &M* .

iik ti":  capital
.1? Eamont .v.aid.j.‘."I’he »
M  eating‘? ;:';:_jZ.  3’ -
ed ha” he other schools re- -.
, _wi1ichwererep.o_rted
 police, or which .
’ ted.,she cited UVa.
_y_ sttiderits -reported
__,. tit nonereportedarape 3
 99¥i9e;;  ’ ;  ’
changed the way it re-
, _ ‘1assuaIts.Now W&L’s
n;Crtme’Awat¢nB$$fm'd'Campus '
ﬁiéctzrzty contains only ire‘ports'o’f rape “con-
: _ j  for University" judicial
"ct;ion'.,  "means that rapes reported to
 ootmselorsor to university psychia-
j_ or e*}_en;to members of the administra-
‘ ‘I ‘ hot counted in the report.

  

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

 

Bosnian Army fends off attack

The Bosnian Army Monday fought off a heavy Croat attack, one
of the heaviest to date in the war, in a small town in central Bosnia.

A U.N. peacekeeper spokesperson said the eight-hour assault
on Gornji Vakuf involved about 4,000 troops and a dozen tanks.
Snow is becoming a factor in thewar, with Sarajevo receiving its
first heavy snowfall of the season.

Puerto Rico nixes statehood

, Puerto Ricans Sunday voted to remain a U.S. Commonwealth
and to not pursue U.S. Statehood. Governor Pedro Rossello led the
campaign for statehood, which received 46.2 percent of the vote in
the first ballot on the island’s status in more than a quarter-century.
Almost 75 percent of eligible voters in Puerto Rico turned out for
the vote.

Israelis search for scrolls

The Israeli government Sunday sent 16 teams of archaeologists
to the occupied West Bank to search for additional Dead Sea
scrolls. Texts including the earliest known sections of the Bible
were found in desert caves over a 10-year period starting in 1947.
The search has been criticized because it was not discussed in
Palestinian-Israeli peace talks.

The Nation

Penn to change racial policy

 

The University of Pennsylvania racial harrassment policy used
against a student who called five black women “water buffalo” will
be revised.

The university promised Tuesday that the policy will be changed,
based on student student input. The five black students who
claimed to be harrassed dropped their charges in May. The
university’s racial policy will be replaced in June of 1994.

Airliner barely avoids crash ’

The pilot of a Continental airlines jet nearly landed his plane at
Chicago’s O’Hare International airport with the landing gear still
up. The tower alerted the crew of the plane that its landing gear was
up when the plane was a mere four feet from the runway. The plane
was able to pull up in time, slightly scraping the runway as it
aborted its takeoff. A Continental spokesman said the crew of the
airliner was not inexperienced.

Buttafuoco gets the maximum

Joey Buttafuoco was sentenced Monday to six months in prison
- the maximum- for having sex with" an underage Amy Fisher.
Prison officials are attempting to decide whether Buttafuoco can
mix with the other inmates at Nassau County jail.

Fisher is serving 15 years for shooting Buttafuoco’s wife, Mary
Jo.

The State 4:11

Bobbitt forgives his Wife

John Bobbitt said Tuesday he forgives his wife for cutting off
his penis.

Bobbitt was acquitted of marital sexual assault last week. Mrs.
Bobbitt’s malicious wounding trial is scheduled for November 29.
Sources say a temporary insanity defense isbeing considered in
the case. Mrs. Bobbitt said she cut off her husband’s penis after
he abused her and forced her to have sex.

Repair company wins ABC suit

A Falls Church repair company won a defamation lawsuit
against ABC in U.S. District Court Monday.

High Technology Electronic Services sued ABC for a segment
which ran on its newsmagazine program “PrimeTime Live,”
which dealt with fraudulent repair practices. On the show, an ABC
producer posed as a customer and brought an intentionally-
disabled compact disc player in to High Tech for repairs. The
repair company charged $224 for a defective laser, when the
problem was a disconnected plug that should have cost only a few
dollars to replace.

High Tech received $1 in damages in the suit.

Man convicted in distillery case

A federal jury convicted Paul Andrew Henson Tuesday of
running the largest moonshine operation ever raided in Virginia.
Henson was found guilty of possessing distillery equipment,
producing distilled spirits without a license and intending to
defraud the federal government of taxes. The distillery had 36
800-gallon pots, putting it ahead of the previous record-holder, a
Franklin County distillery with 24 800-gallon pots. When police
raided in early January, all the pots were full.

Justice Department condemns
VMI-Mary Baldwin plan

The Justice Department condemned Virginia Military Institute’s
plan to create a parallel programat Mary Baldwin College, saying
it was based on gender stereotypes and urging a judge to order
VMI to admit women starting next year.

The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in October of 1992
ordered VMI to admit women, go private, or start a parallel
program elsewhere in the state. The plan formulated by VMI and
Governor Douglas Wilder would have VMI subsidize the “Vir-
ginia Women’s Institute for Leadership” in part.

  

O‘

 

The Fiin -tum Phi November 19 1993

Police copter searches for runaway.

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

Anyone who was on the baseball ﬁeld Tuesday at 1.pm.
may have seen something out of the ordinary.

A Virginia State Police Helicopter landed on the ﬁeld, in
order to meet Lexington Police for a search of the city. The
search was for a runaway 16-year-old boy.

Christopher Wayne Reynolds disappeared on Sunday,
November 14. He was last seen at 10 p.m. in Lexington.
Reynolds is six foot three inches in height and weighs 145
pounds. He has brown hair and brown eyes. When last seen,
Reynolds was wearing a black jacket and jeans and was

carrying a Walkman and a backpack.

Chief Bruce Beard of the Lexington Police Department
has asked that anyone with information about Reynolds’
whereabouts please call the Lexington Police at 463-2112.

Security warns of library thefts 

. FROM STAFF Reroms

University Security wants students
to help prevent thefts in the University
Library.

According to Mike Young, director
of university security, fall term has

 

Anyone with information
as to this runaway’s

whereabouts should con-
tact the Lexington Police
Department at 463-2112. 6

0

yielded many petty thefts. Young said
money, bookbags, calculators, coats
and other similar items have been re-
ported missing. Many stolen items
have been taken from library carrels.
This is where the students come in,
according to Young. Students should
take better care of their things and keep

$fl[‘(‘

..............,.s.,g.;..,.,”“

 

Lurkers

BY KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

Students report seeing strangers in

the Parmly Hall computerlab, espe- '

cially late at night. '

People not afﬁliated with the Wash-
ington and Lee community have also
been sighted in the library, playing
with computers and elevators.

“They just hang out down there and
play Dungeons and Dragons on E-
Mail,” said one senior, who asked to
remain anonymous. .

“Of course, I have no idea how they
access E-Mail,” the student said.

“How did they get passwords?
That’s what I want to know,” senior
Alex Churchill said.

Churchill reported seeing several of
the same people in the Parmly lab fairly
often.

“I can see it becoming annoying if a
lot of students want to use computers
and they’re all in there,” said the se-
nior.

Professor of Physics Barlow

' 1 b

Newbolt said “it could be becoming a
problem,” and suggested that some sort
of security measures be considered.

‘‘It just seems to be becoming more
of a problem,” said an unnamed sopho-
more. “There is definitely a lot of theft
in the area.”

“I heard there were a lot of them
mnning around [the library] Saturday
night,” said freshman Jennifer
Norwood. “They come when they
know there won’t be very many people
around.” .

A Monday night check of Parmly
and all ﬁve ﬂoors of the library around
midnight found no strangers in sight.

As for the strangers themselves, at
least some are “pretty old —— in their
30s and 405,” according to another
anonymous sophomore. “Its pretty sad
that they’re that old and just playing
those video games.”

“There were two [strangers] when I
got on the elevator today,” said a stu-
dent. “They looked pretty normal.”

Others, however, described strang-
ers as “goofy,” “scruffy looking,” and
“annoying.”
Said a sophomore, “they stink.”

Fancy Dress Chairs
motivate for March

BY YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

The Fancy Dress Ball, Washington
and Lee’s biggest social event of the
year, is scheduled for March 4.

Dress has been selected Robinson and
Sibley must maintain secrecy and there-
fore are unable to enlighten us as to the
details. Robinson pointed out that the
suspense of not knowing the theme is
half the fun.

However, Robinson and Sibley did

Having been mention that
Decoration thethemefor
subchairpersons Fancy Dress
forthe past Fancy W38 Selected
Dress, Monica fI0IntheSUg-
Robinson, ‘94, gestions box
and Kendall and that the
Sibley, ‘94, ap- lucky person

plied to the Ex-
ecutive Commit-

 

will receive a
free ticket to

tee and were cho- Fancy Dress.
sen earlier this Robinson
year to serve as 8150 hinted
chairpersons. that tickets
Regardingher are going to
previous experi- be “expen-
ence Robinson s1ve.”
said, “I had a For now
good time last Robinson
year and I met a Wantspeople
lotoffun people.” to become
‘ Robinson and excited and
Sibley both admit describes her
that chairing experience
Fancy Dress as Fancy
takes a great deal \, Dress chair-.
of time and re- l personasfun
sponsibility, yet ‘- and reward-
both manage to ing. “Every-
remaino timistic - one will be
about thgir deci- Robmson p l e a s e d ”
sion. Robinson

Although the theme for the 94 Fancy

commented.

an eye on each other’s belongings.

In an effort to control who enters the
library, the back doors of the library
will be locked after break. Young said
he realizes that non-W&L students use
the library, but he said he would like to
have all library visitors enter via the
front desk, so that non-students and

townspeople entering the building can

be spotted.

Young said security patrols wiﬂ be
stepped up in the library to prevent
thefts and to make sure all doors other
than the main entrance are locked.
Young said a person working at the
library desk is like another pair of eyes.

Atkins: Greek system
will grow in future

I->ATKlNS, from page 1

He said better pledge programs and
less emphasis on alcohol will also help
Renaissance.

With regard to Rush, Atkins said
the early Rush period for W&L men
was left over from the times when the
university was not residential. Frater-
nities had to immediately choose
pledges to ﬁll their houses. The early
Rush will probably continue, because
the men would otherwise have a period
of open contact at the beginning of the
year.

Unless the houses only had dry par-
ties until Rush, the national chapters

would object to that open conﬂct.
“Rush begins as soon as the students
arrive, whether it’s ofﬁcial or not,”
Atkins said.

The future of individual fraternities ‘

especially depends upon the success of
the deferred pledgeship rules, said
Atkins. Atkins noted that if the rmes
work, there will be no reason to move
Rush, because it is in fact the pledgeship
period that is more taxing. The new

rules and earlier initiation dates would '

relieve some of the pressure on fresh-
men.

Atkins concluded that the syskm
“will be here for a long, long time and
that it will endure.”

IFC warns against «
alcohol party themes

BY ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

The Inter Fraternity Council an-
nounced Tuesday that hall crawls and
grain parties, along with other alcohol
theme parties are not permitted be-
cause they involve communal sources
of alcohol.

Under the IFC Constitution, com-
munal sources of alcohol are not per-
mitted at the fraternities. In addition,
kegs are not allowed at any fraternity
function, even at a location other than
a fraternity house. This is a rule insti-

tuted by national fraternity organiza-
tions, not just Washington and Bee.
The use of kegs leave the house ofﬁc-
ers liable, according to the IFC.

Dean of Students David Howison
said if a group of fraternity members
go somewhere together over spring
break or some other vacation, these
rules still apply. .

The IFC also purchased can crush-
ers for $1,000 each to facilitate the
recycling program at W&L. There will
be one machine per house and if they
are broken, the house will be held re-
sponsible.

0

 

 

 

      
 

‘O

DASSAULT, from page 1

I
more and more depressed.

“I broke down. I was a basket case.
My grades went to shit. It was even
worse the next year.

“I ended up getting kind of bitter.
He ended up leavingW&L—he didn’t
grzﬁuate here. He was later accused of
doing something dishonorable — I
think it was stealing from his fraternity
brothers. But his leaving wasn’t to do
with me.

“I found it astounding that he could
stay here if he raped someone but had
to éeave if he stole a check from a
fra ernity brother.

“He went on to get his undergradu-
ate degree from another school and I’m
still here in my ﬁfth year and still
struggling.”

Lyrae said the worst came after he
left school but still
cafle back to visit

 

The Rin - -tum Phi, November 19. 1993

and those friends more often comforted
him than comforted her.

“Female friends and mothers are
the most hurtful. They’re vulnerable,
too,” said Schroer-Lamont. “We
[women] feel some responsibility. We
question ourselves. We go through our
own self-blaming. To deal with that we
blame other people, [like the victim.]

“Or women [friends] will say ‘I
know him, he’s such a sweet guy. I
knew someone else that went out with
him and they had a great time. I think
something must have gone wrong that
night.’ ”

Schroer-Lamont continued that
women not only are the victims, but
they are their own harshest critics.

“Our culture has set us up to blame
ourselves, especially our mothers and
our grandmothers,” said Schroer-
Lamont. “If something bad happens
we must have been involved.”

S c h r o e r -
Lamont said that

his girlfriend. Her “I f d .t th_0seattitudesc0n-
anaCken01dhiSgir[_ oun l as- tributetothetrauma
friend that he had tounding that he fhrape ,‘;‘°‘}[“ 33:5
";‘p°ddLyTa,f’hl?"‘Sh° could stay here if he pri;);1i',Eaia aecrt i:
t . '
S ayeiw WI frlinejnds raped someone but PVC’-That trauma
dimytyturn away h d t I .f h includes a wide ar-
from him,» Lyrae a 0 cave 1 e ray of emotions and
said. “His girlfriend Stole 3 check from 3 actsesome "_f‘fVh‘°h
didn’t leave him. fraternity brother. “a” b‘ ”“S‘““""
The administration I Preiedorpassed Off

didn’t do anything
to him.”
d\fter considering all that, Lyrae sid
she could only come to one conclusion.
“Well God, Rae, there must be some-
thing wrong with you.”

What happened to Lyrae her fresh-
man year could happen to any W&L
wgman at any time. Most students,
male and female, are aware of that.

What they may not be aware of is
that acquaintance and date rape is much
more prevalent than stranger rape. Es-
pecially at a small school in a small
town , such as W&L , in which there are
piactically no strangers. :

“Society has improved in dealing
with stranger rape, but not with ac-
quaintance rape,” said Associate Dean
of Students and University Psycholo-
gist Anne Schroer-Lamont. “An ac-
quaintance rape victim gets left out in
the cold. That’s the most common.”

‘Take Lyrae’s case. The man that
raped her was popular on campus, re-
spected by his peers. Lyrae said that

3-,,ven afterlre adnr_itte‘d§o raping her, his-

position and popularity Iwereonot di-
minished. Meanwhile, Lyrae had to
struggle with seeing him on campus
eiery day. She knew that he had admit-
ted raping her to their mutual friends,

 

Next time your friend insists on driving‘ drunli,

as stress. Shroer-

Lamont said that
some of the most common emotions a
rape victim feels are shock, disbelief,
shame, powerlessness, embarrassment,
denial, disorientation, dirtiness and
numbness.

The victim may go into shock for
anywhere from a few days to a few
weeks or months. She will move in a
daze, not remembering anything she
says or does.‘

Also during those first days and
months, the victim may experience
ﬂashbacks.

“lt’s like a camera ﬂash. They see
one part of the whole assault,” said
Schroer-Lamont. “They are so terri-
fied they block the whole assault out of
their mind, but their memory allows a
picture.”

The flashbacks can also occur in
nightmares. The victim could get night-
mares every night or only occasion-
ally. They can be triggered by the ring
of a phone, a footstep in the hall, any-
thing that is a reminder of what hap-
penedor thatgsignals danger.

‘ ' Because of that, the victim could

become hypervigilant, jumping at the
slightest sound. v

“She is tuned in to danger. All the
senses are sharper —— she listens for

footsteps behind her,” said Schroer-
Lamont.

At the other extreme, the victim
may “space out”. She could be eating
dinner or sitting in class, and suddenly
wake up or snap out of it and realize
that she doesn’t remember what she
just did.

She could go on spending sprees.

“It’s like what she does doesn’t
matter anymore,” said Schroer-Lamont.

Schroer-Lamont said that self-mu-
tilation in rape victims is common.
Victims bruise themselves, bang their
heads against walls or doors, or burn or
cut themselves. Suicide and attempted
suicide occur as well.

The woman may often begin to take
tremendous risks. Surprisingly, that risk
taking extends and especially applies
to sex. Promiscuity and one night stands
can become fairly frequent.

“Women friends or sorority sisters
might ask: ‘I’m worried about your
reputation. Do you know what people
are saying about you? ’ ,” said Schroer-
Lamont. “The victims often don’t make
tne connection between the assault and
their lack of concern for their body and
health. A woman that throws herself at
men may be suffering from the after-
math of assault.”

Schroer-Lamont said that getting
rape victims on the road to recovery is
a herculean task.

“If the victim doesn’t confront this
she will likely continue to have emo-
tional problems in the future." Some
people have written in surveys and said
in counseling that they don’t call them-
selves rape victims because then they
have to deal with all the other emotions
[that rape entails].”

In order for a victim to recover and
heal from a rape, she first has to admit
that it happened. That sounds obvious,
but admitting you were raped isnt’t
easy.

Admitting rape is a three step pro-
cess, Schroer-Lamont said. She must
admit it to herself, tell someone else,
and then move to reporting the rape
and taking judicial and criminal action.
Schroer-Lamont said that not all vic-
tims go through all three stages of the
admittal process. Most women espe-
cially avoid the reporting step because
they don’t want to deal with the legal
aspect of the rape.

“[The victim feels she is] protecting
herself from legal stuff. She feels she
can’t handle anymore. The legal aspect
can make the trauma twice as bad.

“If she can assume any of the
reponsibility then she will not define
the event as rape. Responsibility means:
I was drinking too much, I shouldn’t
have walked home by myself.”

Schroer-Lamont continued that the

  @
Sexual assault victims heal in three steps

woman would also rather place the
blame on herself than get someone else
in trouble.

“One of the most common reasons
why women don’t report is that they
are afraid to get the guy in trouble.
They are afraid they might ‘ruin his
life’. It’s part of our campus culture -
‘ifl tell I’ll ruin his life so l’ll suck up
all this and his future won’t be ruined.
I’ll deal with this.” ' ,

But there’s a difference between a
mined life and severance from W&L.
Lyrae’s attacker left W&L for reasons
totally unrelated to the attack. And he
now has his degree and is living what
seems to be a normal life. His life was
anything but ruined. Meanwhile, Lyrae
is still here after five years and is strug-
gling to realize her most ferventwish. . .
to get out of here. I

“If we could get men and women to
think about that concept... it won’t

ruin the rapist’s life [if the victim re-
ports him],” said Schroer-Lamont.
Schroer-Lamont listed other com-
mon reasons why women don’t report
rape: the victim assumes responsibil-
ity; the victim is afraid of social stereo-
types; the victim is trying to protect

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

herself from mental anguish; or she is
afraid of retribution (if she reports him
he might get off free, and then come
after her again).

But if the victim doesn’t report the
rape right away, she faces greater com-
plications and less chance of convict-
ing her attacker down the road.

“If she chooses not to report, then
she has to deal with greater skepticism
from the law if she talks about it. Law
enforcement says she must have had
some fault or she would have reported
it,” said Schroer-Lamont. “She even
faces greater skepticism from her
friends and family and even from the
medical field.”

Recovery from rape is a long and
hard road. It might take years, but the
only way to do it is to take it day-by-
day. Schroer-Lamont said the healing
process follows the three steps of the
admittal process. A woman heals more
each time she completes a step of the
process.

“You can tell a woman is healing
when she goes through the angry
stages,” said Schroer-Lamont. “She is
angry at the judicial system, the admin-
istration, at her attacker. She feels em-

mvm DOESN'T islsr KILL DRUIERS

Andrea Hurrjs, /tiller! Aug. .36, 19.9] at 6:00pm on El Caimizo [mt/'. rll(l.S‘(‘(l(/(")'(), (..'(zlg'7Emz2‘(:.
do whatever it takes to stop him. Because if he kills innocent people, how will you live with 3i'ou1'self?

grmtuns Dom LET rgirnnsnnivr DRUNK.»

    

PAGE 3

powered in talking to an attorney or
security. Some people feel stronger
talking about it. She can feel better.

“It helps if one or more family mem-
bers knows and is supportive. And
every survivor I’ve talked with has
talked about the importance of their
male friends.”

Schroer-Lamont said that recovery
groups help the survivors, too. A
woman can belong to a confidential
support group on campus, or she will
help them seek counseling or a support
group in their hometown or in the town
where they go after graduation. W&L
has a confidential support group that
meets on a weekly basis.

“It’s an opportunity for the women
to get support and work on their self-
esteem, growth, support and relation-
ship skills. The members sign an agree-
ment not to talk about anything that
happens in the group, even if they leave
or graduate,” said Schroer-Lamont.
“This is the seventh year the group has
met on a weekly basis. They initiated
the sexual assault survey; They asked
to do it. They have been instrumental in
helping women through the recovery
process.”

 

 

 

I
II,»

I tied a ribbon because I xvzxt: a3.satilt«e~:l
by my high school piircipztl.

I tied a ribbon because I was sexually
assaulted by one of my best l'i*;Zt-trtls
freshman year.

I tied a ribbon to represent the strength
and courage that persons who l.ra"ve t:‘fxp<-‘.—-
rienced sexual violence have.

I tied a ribbon for my friend wlro was
sexually assaulted in a f'ot"eigit cot-.r.,‘t.t“;,'\’
by an American.

I tied 5 ribbons... and will it-‘f;"u‘4.‘.5,' ‘«}’;=rgt.—t
the pain...

I tied 4 ribbons for the W &L women
from the Recovery Group who led tile
discussion of the Paiufztl .Erzr:m.~ ., 
program Monday night. ’i”‘han,'t~;s.

 

I tied a ribbon for-my rnother—— whowas
sexually molested by her gratnifutliet"

I tied a ribbon for J. because all nt’
this must end.

I tied a ribbon because of an assault that
took place in my home over iZl1:‘_€sttrias
two years ago.

I feel the pain of my t'riencs

I tied 2 ribbons for my friend wire was
nearly assaulted and for dIl(,‘~il2rff.‘-‘ friend

who had an abusive boyfriend.

Itied3 ribbons for my 3 closest ‘ft 
— who were assaulted. fI'f.i'Sl.Et‘l'.1’..‘.'tI’=‘   

 

I tied 4 ribbons. l for a frien'.i “x,'/lit) a.,>«_r’« ,_ _

2+ years to uI1CI€il’SI}1‘.t(l who ‘a
her. 1 who endured tv.oH.tl~ 
who will tell you she sairl flu, .. will not
say she was raped and I who pazased on:
when a boy raped her:

  
   

 

I tied 5 ribbons - 2 for J:1t7lllt’.lt"'
mine who were raped. or
freshmen - 1 for a 13 year
when I served on ajtsty tot wz ‘t~
For my Mom. 1 fora. ~
was raped and one fat
been kidnapped in . .
several VV&I_,;-nude» 3‘. W», ,
still living -~ we fear stat: tr?‘ ‘

   
    
 

I tied a ri'r>l';;m l>e:::n:-se its pztinfizll i
know that sexual assault could it
anyone.

o
at/t,w;~':: to

I tied a ribbon because I tinnigh sexual
assault/ rape was over exaggerated until.
my best friend was raped.

I tiedia ribbon for 2‘. friends who ‘r.<2v-st;
been raped.

For our sisters in ‘§{ugc»sla=ri:n..

Itied 2 ribbons for my friends w’: ll,‘ have
been so much a part of my life. My '§iiI.€il{If~}
who were date raped turd .rar:::d.

I tied a ribbon because I was as-
saulted when I was a   l'7’r:.=3n_ce.

 

I tied a. ribbon for a friend whr: was
sexually assaulted by her grandfather and
still feels the effects 20+ years later.

I tied 3 ribbons: one for my :I".=;iend
who was raped, one for my lrien-‘s ‘wait?
was sexually assaulted, are-»:l or for is y
ex-boyfriend who ‘.*.v;§'~} ntwtel-~.-';7.-~7 :9
child.

    
 

  

I tied 4 ribbons— foi‘ 17. ft iemis. \'-v‘i‘t&)- »"
sexually assaulted, I very «':los«.'t ti-
and my friend who czmlrneti 1?!) ye:i.r.«; 
rape by her father.

]_X’f
{er 2 rl,

Itied a ribbon because I was sexually
assaulted my freshrnan year at W & I...
I tied 3 i'ibbm;«s fax:  -‘ I    " M3;
raped at W&L  one fa’; git‘! 2‘::ps-:
by her boyfriend. 'l"l1.e 53 ..n ribbon I
tiedwas for a girl S63.‘-.'?il‘vt.iI_'y' .Lt.‘;Si§i1il't2"{l in

  

 

. »- it l.l°’é.""‘*lI‘i4..r: oi’

  
 

 

 

I
‘I
_..-r"

‘l

i'H?§' 33.3".’-~=..7._rs,l t'at.lrs:3r'<

I tied a ribbon for a friend back home
who was raped by her grandfather and her
b<.)yfriei::d. Let the violence stop.

I tied a ribbon fin’ all who are not

3111/?) 5"-‘Q-;

I tied 2 ribbons... l for my mother,
assaulted. as 2:. chilc by her dentist. l for my
fi.:;’rrcee, tl_£~.1;~1§1lllI.‘:al tltztring her freshman
year by my best friend. NE‘~/ER IGNORE.
H lit ’«’.ljI?. 'v‘f}l?;(}iZ'.l”.

Itied I»! 2 lllltitlilf-----3 for college friends
‘.’.!SS'.:1lllt%?(l. lit-.‘}."t‘ at W&L, I for a girl at
my lwigrll 54? vol who has the strength to
‘i =‘ ' j c' ‘old rapist to court this

srnall town where no one

       
 

 

serriiztlly

 I.‘ I3.  rl;

 

I tied 3 ribbons for 3 women who
mrry the guilt of being sexually as-
sanltetl: ‘l by a friend while she was in
tire ‘Ml: gr ode; l by her doctor, and 1 by
her tmyfriend... I tied another one for
myseT.t‘t>eeai3se my exwboyfriend felt jus-
éit'i--:»tl in .se.xtiai_‘«y assaulting and harass-
ing me when he just could not help
llln1—‘Sf.‘lfWllBl'l he was DEPRIJSSED and
when he was A.l"«l’f:'RfY at‘ me, EVEN
A.l*l_‘l’*.'1_l;~?_ we Ir.-.-Jolie up. I ‘now realize I
neither deserved to be abused, nor did
he have 9. right to hurt me like that. HE
(ifllli .1} help himself; I tiidn’t create a
rapist by széyittg-“NU” or rejecting him.
Tlrese 4 rililmrxs rle<:l:‘*r~e that my women
theriils and I are l.ll?.V.lVORS, not
wictirns, and tliey ‘r eat 4 pleas of
' HUI’ (l!lll.TY“‘ "or {‘.l}tiliii_(éY’S act of

.?,- ‘I... ,~... .. :-:.-.-g .
-‘~'vI?r..Il-‘..‘-c «.",-:'*..- if-‘ll 19.5.

 
 
 

V gr 0 1 ,
VV’ 1%}...

‘ll of? ,

lilo the I}/“
:.r~-rietgtrad in

   
     
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
 

‘. the rnajority of
. ,, . . I resent charac-
aln e. Also, I am not a
.. arr “kick-ass frater-

 

E :»..r?s.»=a 7.‘t;’:S&i,',tI the above.

ilir: :1b:>'<.'::  an unfair stereotype.

ll   ribbon for that other part of
'  ‘* ' e you went to school and
iiogof a kick-ass fraternity.

., ’n:s.:<. a lot of work to do! Start
everyone, so no one else has to
what I did!

   

I ti_r;=rl “.2 ribbons for ft'iend’s mothers
2:11:72 era; 95!! recr:.-vering emotionally.

l tier! :1 r'il;tm;3 for my four cousins who
~ tr} "ry tl:t::ir fntlier. The oldest

   
 

I tied at _l.'li)lJ0i3l for my close friend
“.';’ll4? «was rtrztllgy assatilted and thinks
it was tier" tﬁurlt. I tied a ribbon for my
t"rier:tl Mrs: was molested as a child. It
" the m<r»z=°. §'tC()])l8 I talk to, the
.. 3?:-,«« 51¢»: :« pervasive sexual

" I **’m'er‘ibba)n forme,
mrstge to be who I
at"? asp for‘ myself and other

 
   
 

     

 
  

 tor erv eryone I know who
. j ::r a:ss:.-.s.tlt<:d. I tied up eight.
I thirrl-:. that‘.’:: pretty av/l‘t1l.'l‘h()se are eight

to es t.‘:.‘=.t will ilC‘~.-‘all bi ‘Lire same.

t  T7  (Bite for myself. I
l:r.ope this week of awareness incites
'"l_";2,‘:j_3f.C‘.

I went to,
er t;ai"i of the U .S. where.-.

.:ner is now injail ~—it can be ‘

I
|_/”

' ‘ I tied a ribbon for the pain of losing the
trust in a ‘friend,

This is a good idea — it raised my
awareness!

I tied a ribbon for my two friends who
were date raped, one for my friend who
was physically and sexually abused by her
fiancee, one for my friend who was abused
by her grandfather and one for my friend
who was abused by her step—father. Fi-
nally, I tied a ribbon for my sister and me.

A.

I tied a ribbon for3 friends: one who
was attacked and raped by her ex—boy-
friend and got pregnant; one fora friend
who was raped by her boyfriend in high
school and one for a friend who was
assaulted by a stranger when she was a
child.

I tied 4 ribbons. One for a boy, one for
a girl who had her virginity taken and all
because they trusted the wrong people.
Rape is not merely a physical act, it is an
emotional /one, The raper is not looking for
a “good time,” he/she wants to reduce his/
her victim into nothing.

I tied a ribbon for those who are
afraid to talk to anyone about being
raped —— for those who g_an’_t talk to
anyone about it —— for those who fgd
th_§y_can_’_t,_g_t,um, l tied another ribbon

for those who do not understand.

I tied a ribbon because I got kicked out
of my house.

I tied 2 ribbons —— 1 for my ex-
boyfriend who saw his Mom raped by-a
burglar when he was seven years old. 1
for his Mom, a woman of enormous
strength.

I tied a ribbon for my friends who were
raped or abused. '

..L......»—

. W

I tied a ribbon, even though it alone
can’t erase being raped at 15 by my
boyfriend and then letting him abuse
me for 2 years after that. A ribbon can’t
erase the physical scars I have —— but it
does symbolize that I’ve gone on in life
to be bright and successful. To all the
women who have been raped and abused
—- FIGHT BACK! Don’t live with the
guilt —- it’s not your fault.

I tied a ribbon in support of my women
friends who have been sexually assaulted
on this campus.

I tied a ribbon for all of us who real-
ized too late we were being assaulted.

I tied 1 ribbon for all my friends who
have been raped. I tied 1 ribbon for my
sister so she won’t be raped because con-
sciousness will be raised and people will
be educated. I tied 1 ribbon for my unborn
daughter so she will never feel threatened
by a friend, a lover, a husband, or a
stranger because one day I believe this will

not be a problem anymore. I am an opti- .

mist but until that time I needed to tie 3
ribbons.

For a friend raped 3 years ago.

For those who suffer through no fault of
their own: all men and women who are
raped or sexually assaulted.

I didn’t tie a ribbon —— some things
are too painful to be reminded of all day
long. ‘

I tied a ribbon because I’ve never been
so scared in my entire life.

If I was to tie a ribbon for all the
people I know that have been scared by
sexual assault and /or rape, there would
not be enough room for all the ribbons
-- but, the one ribbon I did tie repre-
sents something positive. I am a survi-
vor! Last year I was raped on this cam-
pus and both physically and verbally
assaulted by an individual who thought
it was just rough sex, and that I enjoyed
it —— he was wrong! I am so disgusted by
him, the judicial system, and those that
supported him or covered up his ac-
tions. I will recover, but the healing
process is long and slow. I will NEXER

 
  
 

get over it, but I will soothe some of the
wounds that remain with time and pa-
~ tience. I pray that someday he recog-
nizes and is sorry for what he has done
to my life, but I also recognize that will
never happen. I am strong...he is weak!

With this ribbon I let go of the memo-
ries of last year.

I tied 6 ribbons for friends who have
had to feel the pain.

I tied 2 ribbons—— one for a friend back
home + was raped in her home by a
stranger and one for one of my sisters who
still lives with a lot of pain.

I tied a ribbon because I was date
raped and didn’t think it would ever
happen to me.

I tied 3 ribbons — one for my best
friend who was raped in high school “be-
cause she wanted it,” one for my friend
who was raped by her fiancé when she
was 17, and one for my friend who was
molested by her older brother as children.

Why did he hurt me, and tell me he
loved me? What was it about him that
made him yearn for control, to ﬁght me
till I was worn out, and gave in? Did he
really need the sex? Something tells me,
NO. He needed to feel like a dominant
person. I lost a lot of self—respect in that
relationship. How could I have missed
the cues? But I did — we all do. Who
m 
luuimnl

I have grown as a person since I
came to realize I was raped by my
boyfriend. It was a rude awakening,
but a necessary step forward to heal-
ing. Like any other injury, the scar
tissue that has formed is not like the
tissue that was damages. It is stronger,
but less ﬂexible. So am I. Now I know
who I am and,-What I want. If; ma,
can’t .respect-that, he’ doesn’t“ deed; '
my company. Surely I can find sense;

And really, I’d rather been-‘my own “

than dating someone who’d hurt me.

Elizilbeth .

I tie a ribbon for all the women at W&L
with the strength to have confronted their
assailants. I applaud them for their brav-
ery, particularly in coming forward in a
community in which the man is far more
likely to be acquitted of any wrong simply
because of his gender.

I also tie a ribbon for the many who
suffer in silence and fear. The pain which
those fear who know the scrutiny of the
society under which they would be judged
and deem them liars is overwhelming.
The anguish and pain they feel us greater
than any of can, and probably will ever
experience.

I long for the mind—set of this great

University to enter the twentieth century.
The dominance of White—Anglo males is
past its time. The men of Washington and
Lee need to recognize that their obsessive
desire for power and control. It is time for
equality and recognition of the significant
contribution of women on this campus.
The oppression must stop. Justice must
have its say.
For all this I tie a ribbon.
Matthew
(The above ribbon was tied by a male
in the Washington & Lee community who
is also a fraternity member.)

Why must there be so much pain? I
hate one individual on this earth be-
cause he hurt me, but I am a survivor
and he is the one going to hell, not me!

o I was raped as a junior in high school,
then again as a junior at W&L.

For the incredible bravery of indi-
viduals who will admit to being hurt
and that they should feel N_Q shame or
guilt.

I tie a ribbon because something has to
be done. As it stands a woman can claim
that she has been raped and can drag
someone’s have been legitimately sexu-
ally assaulted. I just feel that the current
system us prone to abuse.

I tied a ribbon for my best friend,
who was drugged and then raped by
her boyfriend and 9 of his closet friends.

. . , .,.., ._._.;. ....,,
ll 9'.-“,:»=~: Kai.’ -2' =

3
The Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1993
—I-|.I- rm‘! /-fill. I.’-I
— / JF / 1!? v'/

  ll‘: ti. ti...-

   

I love you sweetheart. I

Humani nihil a me alienum puto

(Terence) “I think that nothing human is
foreign to me” (Terence) and these trag-
edies must stop.

A male on camﬂts

I tied a ribbon for my grandmother
I who was raped at the age of 4.. I

I tied a ribbon because I was assaultgd
(8th grade) by the boy next door. I tied one
for his healing, too. Sometimes I’m still
afraid.

Pain does not equal pleasuremwﬁy
did he think so?

I tied 2 ribbons —— one for a friend who
suffered an attempted rape, and the other
for my sister, who was raped while highpn
drugs which the rapist gave her, She never
knew she took them and could notdefend
herself.

I tied a ribbon because I’ve let go of
the pain and found the happiness I Oe-
serve.

I tied a ribbon because I was sexually
assaulted as a child.

0

I tied a ribbon for my sister who
didn’t deserve the abuse she got; I tied
one for my friend who was too little at
the time to know grown—ups shouldn’t

touch you there; I tied one for me ’ca e -

I’ve come too close too many times.

I think it’s time I tied one for myself. It
wasn’t my fault.

I
I tie a ribbon for my two year old
mrrj cg, in, tlrghope that she willneverfeel
‘:'tl‘1‘s'pajn'." ’ '”, ; r:_,~' rI:...,-,..f';=‘.“»..‘..,"

..-

.\

I

~ No means yes. ‘I A

Nice attitude jerk (to the above state-
ment). I am a male fraternity member.

People like you (above statement) $6
the reason we have these problems! Q_e_t

some education and a heart!

I tied a ribbon for a friend that was
sexually assaulted and can face the pﬁn
now and recover. Also for all those that
are still living with it.

I was raped my freshman year. It was
one of the most awful experiences of my
life, I have never felt such fear —-'— such
lack of control -_— such vulnerability. But
the worst part is now. Even 4 years later I
still have nightmares. The physical abuse
is nothing compared to the emotional scars
I must now deal with. It has changed ﬁre
ways I deal with men— not permitting me
to become intimate with men I truly care
about because of the FEAR. Bt I am a
SURVIVOR! And hope that by speak-
ing out and reaching out to other survi-
vors and other women that the ma, 0
recovery will be a little smoother. It is
time that men and women alike open
their eyes to the violence that is occur-
ring at this campus and everywhere
else. It is time that we all walk together
to put an end to this abuse. I wantgo
thank Dean Schroer—Lamont, my group
of survivors, and my male friends that
have helped me to face this trauma and
turn it into a growing experience. "I
have become a stronger woman and
hope to strengthen others around rm.
The pain will never stop if we don.’t’all
work together.

BR

Last March 14-21, the Health Educa-.
tion Committee sponsored Sexual Assault
Awareness Week. As part of the week’s
events, members of the Washington and
Lee community were asked to tie a ribbon
and help raise campus consciousness by
sharing their experiences or feelingsabout
sexual assault. Many of those who tied a
ribbon wrote an explanation on the sheets
of newsprint which covered the bulletin
boards in the University Center. The com-
ments above were all on display then and
g were on display at the beginning of the year

in the Women ’s Center.

 

 

The Ring-tum .Phi, November 19,1 993
. T

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Girls —Would you like to know what the
guys say about you after you hook-up with
them at their fiatemity parties?

uys —-Would you like to know what a
W L girl looks for in a guy?

Too bad. Neither of the sexes are telling.

Maybe it’s because romance is a touchy
subject to be quoted on. Not that romance has
anything to do with hooking-up. And what does
“hooking-up” mean, anyway? Eye contact, lip
co tact, body contact, or total contact?

or some it means a good romp in bed. For
others, it’s not sex, but it can be kind of,
um...fun.

One freshman girl thought “[Hooking-up] is
a good deep kiss with cuddling and groping.
Chains and whips if desired.”

“I think just hooking-up is fun at the time,
butﬁf you do it on a regular basis you get a
reputation as being a sleaze,” said sophomore
Jay White.

Point to ponder: Do guys get the same kind
of rep for sleeping around as girls do? (puh -
leeze!)

Although deﬁnitions for hooking-up run the

“ gaipit, general consensus seems to be that

 

/,

hooking-up can mean whatever you want.

“To me the beauty of the term ‘hooking-up’
is its ambiguity. It can mean anything from
ﬂirting to sex,” said freshman Betsy Green.

Some students scorn hooking-up altogether.
“It seems the existing archaic method of drink-
inggo excess and losing all self control is quite
desirable to the majority of our student body...l
wonder if [the girls] know what’s said about
them after the parties

  ‘I/V€’7"L ife
The art of the hook-up at W&L

An examination/lamentation of VI/&L% dating scene

like guys, for example.

“When I meet a girl that I am interested in it
does not matter to me where she goes to school.
I do not understand why W&L girls cannot
understand this and be more mature about the
situation instead of constantly cutting
on girls from down the road,”
said junior Michael Witsil.

One anonymous guy,
however, felt .differ-
ently. ’

“The road school
situation sucks. Life
would be much easier
if all the girls attended
W&L. I personally
would much rather
date someone
here,” he said.

And not all
W&L girls
knock girls
from all-
g i r l s
schools.

“[Girls
from all-
girls schools]
are not a big deal
except at date
functions...[guys] shouldn’t
be able to ask anyone from another school until
all the girls here have dates,” said freshman
Marie Lamb. .

VMI guys don’t really seem to be an issue
for anyone. So onward to the crux of the matter:
Dating vs. Hooking-up.

He’s wearing a nice tie with a nice shirt
(which doesn’t match), looking slightly un-
comfortable and smelling of Eau de Aren’t I a
Stud (available at Stores That Have These

Kinds Of Things).

attheﬁ'athouses,”said
one girl.

However, while
th - definition of
‘hooking-up’ can be
interesting, who you

Top Ten Ways To
Deal With Being In
Love

She’s got on a pretty
dress and pantyhose,
ready to have a good
time and freeze to
death. Yes, it’s a date
, and the question is,

do it with warrants how typical isthis see-
even more discussion. nario at W&L?
Thus, we arrive at the 10- Take drugs One anonymous

fun subject of: Girls

From All - Girls - guydoesn’tthinkitis.
SCIRIOIS. 8' Demal “My opinion on
I Onindthel local dia- 7. Eat and get really fat g1atin%;xtIVY&Listd11_2tgt
ect,roa c eese. - ' it suc . tis very l-

W&Lgirls, in gen- 6' Whine ””t"_Y°” no ﬁcul.ttogetadatehere~
eral,donotlookkindly IOHQST have friends because it seems that
upon road cheese. 5_ Write |oVe poetry that when you speak to a

“Road cheese sucks,”
waﬂone W&L girl’s
eloquent statement.

9. Talk to Oprah about it

will be read by unfortu
nate English students at

(and disillusioned)

girl, they assume you
are hitting on them,
when maybe you are

“Why would they just looking foracon-
[W&L guys] want to ter V9” death versation andafriend-
go outwith those girls 4. Drink ship,” he said. _
anyway? W&L 3. Put an ad in the W&‘r8i"5-*".g°"‘
women are obviously I  d eral, like dating.
supﬂrior. Are we just C ass‘ le 5 “There is no dating at

jealous of them? Yeah,
probably,” said Green.

Cutting on road
cheese isn’t cool with
all (W&L students-—

te 

2. Get a sex change
1. Join a convent/ monas

W&L. There should
be. Girls like to have
money spent on
them,” said one girl.
“Dating is fun be-

Oi hair and SIlO€S2\X/84L I[<]SIllOll

Thefiner points of the typical ‘On the

with naturally. Bobs and larger styles, with and without bangs,
all—one—length styles, are good.

For guys, hair styles are pretty much all the same-—short—
with variations based more on individual hair characteristics
than to styling. Some seem to be in perpetual need of a haircut—
especially freshmen enjoying time away from home. “You can
tell the boys who had hair lengths in their dress codes at home,”

By Kathleen Quirk

0 Hii Staff Writer

 

The fashion extravaganza continues...

Return now to a familiar theme: conservatism at Washington & Lee.

   
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 

4/

I

r
1
/

cause you get a lot of good, expensive meals,
and you can get to know people at a more

' intimate level,” said freshman Tracy Marshall.

‘At a more intimate level’ — this seems to be
the difference between dating and hooking-up.
Hooking-up seems to consist of ideas such as:
‘random’, ‘for one night only’ and ‘Do you
even remember her name?’

Dating is obviously more romantie——dark
candlelight dinner with that “get to know me”
ambiance vs. dark fraternity party with that
“let’s get drunk and have sex” ambiance.

Dating also has its downsides. Sure, it can i

lead to a deeper, more serious relationship,
which can be good, but it also means more
commitment and less freedom.

A bad hook-up, on the other hand, can be
written off as a consequence of being too drunk
— ‘it’s a weekend thing’, ‘it’s a party thing’,
‘it’s a hook-up thing’, etc. lt’s not too hard to
deal

Still, W&L girls desire more dating. Sopho-
more Margaret Fitts said, ‘‘I would like to see
more dating on this campus—-what girl
wouldn’t?” _

W&L students’ suggest these ideas for good
dating activities:

-the zoo in Roanoke

-the library

-Blue Ridge Parkway

-the Inn at Union Run

-any Lenfest drama production

-the theater in Roanoke

-ll Pallazo

-Willson Walker

-go for a walk on the Chessie Trail

-see a movie at Hull’s Drive-In

-bowl at Fast Lanes

-anything except going to a fraternity party

Basically, any.romantic place where you
can get to know someone and become part of a
couple and live happily-ever-after is just fine.

said freshman Marie Lamb.

When dealing with hair, shoes and trends, W&L students lean toward the

tra&tional.

“Very conservative,” was junior Stacy Newlin’s opinion of W&L fashion.
Shoes for W&L men fall easily into two categories: boots and other. Rare is
the W&L student who cannot find at least one pair of boots —hiking, duck,
chukka or cowboy —— in his closet. Oxfords are also popular, especially bucks and
. saddles. Loafers and blucher moccasins are favorites as well. More casual shoes
include indoor soccer and other athletic shoes, canvas sneakers like Vans or All-
Stﬁs, and running shoes which may be even more prevalent than books. Though
winter is approaching quickly, some students are still wearing sandals like

Birkenstocks and Tevas.

Women’s shoes include all of the guys’ shoes and more (change that
elementary school playground chant to “Anything guys can wear, girls can wear

better”).

Girls’ shoes are — no surprise here — largely conservative. “No one wears
Disks,” said freshman Stephanie Falorizio, “they wear penny loafers.” _ A

Popular styles include ankle cowboy boots, woven leatherﬂats and mules, and
loafer ﬂats——especially with little brass accents. Good colors for fall and winter
are the predictable browns, blacks and bone. “I don’t think girls should wear
white shoes after Labor Day,” said freshman Gambril Corckran, “If you must
wear bone, then I guess it’s acceptable.” Brown is great with textures——mock
alligator and basketweaving in particular. Suede’s classic texture looks espe-
ciaﬂy good in black, dark brown and forest green. Pumps and ﬂats are perennial

standbys.

Why all these shoes for women? They simply need more because their shoes
are usually less versatile. W&L girls need different shoes for class, going out,

hanging out and dressing up.

Hair styles at W&L are, unbelievably, traditional. ‘‘I never see mohawks or
funky shades of hair,” said freshman Christi Wooldridge. For girls, hairstyles are
USIEII)’ simple and classic. There is virtually no “big hair,” bizarre coloring,
fun y ’80s layering, claw bangs or heavily lacquered styling. In short, nothing
highly unnatural. Hair styles generally conform to what a person’s hair looks best

“They’re growing it out and they’re all shaggy now.”

... ‘. . ._ ._
3‘? .~.. .o.- .......___ _'
_ .
'.

:4:

1' '

V, ’,.-..--

ugh.”
Ty’
\.'|5tI/l/“/
A\‘

Now to one unfortunate aspect of dating at
W&L: Long Distance Relationships.
These are not always, if ever, fairy tale
romances.
‘‘It takes a lot of effort
from both sides to keep
th_e relationship
strong,” said sopho-
more Kristen
Cavros.

One romantic
believes “[if] you
are 18-22 years of
age and enrolled
in college and can-
not commit to a
relationship...then

__ when, if ever, will
you be able to?”

Many people feel
long distance rela-

tionships rarely
work, but there

are strong people
out there that
make them
work.

“I believe that
the two of us can make it
work despite the distance. We plan
to be together for a very long time after
we graduate, and we realize that we are going to
have to get used to being apart sometimes,” said
seniorMatthew
Appel.

.’V

 

PAGE 5

much when you’re away from your beloved?
“It all depends on how much you love your long
distance [person]. lt’s the hardest, I think, on
the third party,” said freshman Vivian Stone.

Which means, yes, you can be involved in a
long distance relationship without having a
boy/girlfriend at home. You can be dating some-
one who has a boy/girlfriend at home.

“[Long distance relationships] rarely work.
They usually end up self-destructing or turning
into good friendships,” said Marie Lamb.

Even though long distance relationships may
sometimes seem like more hell than they’re
worth, strength of mind and body, can get you
through.

From hooking-up to serious relationships,
W&L has an off-balance system of romance.
But then, love is off-balance.

Juliet stabbed herself to death because of
love. Mark Anthony came to ruin out of love for
Cleopatra.

Isn’t love wonderful?

  

For fresh-
men, the long
distance rela-
tionship bit is
hard. Are you
allowed to
hook-up with
other people
when you have
aboy/girlfriend
at home? Can
you still have
fun? Some-
times the draw
of the person at
home is just too
much to ignore.

“Everyone
told me before
I left for school
that I should see
other people,
but I couldn’t
imagine either
of us with other
people,” said
f r e s h m a n
Allison Foote.
“I suggested to
him that we see
other people,

great.”

you.”

of a girl ’s shirt

but hecouldn’t fIOOr_”
handle the
thought of

that.”

Seeingother

people—how
much is too

The Good, the Bad, and the Truly
Lame Pick-Up Lines

‘‘I’m wearing bedding material, would you like
to lie on .me?” — a guy at Sigma Phi Epsi/on’s
Caveman Party who was attired in sheets

“Would you like to see the rest of the house?”

‘‘I hear the view behind the library is really

“l’ve met you before. ..it was in an erotic dream.
It was wild, it was crazy, it was incredible.” —-
said at a fraternity party (The girl responded
“Keep on dreaming. '9

“So you’re a freshman? l’ve been looking for

“You must be tired. You’ve been running
through my mind all day.” ’

“Just checking to see if you were made in
heaven.” — a guy checking the tag on the back

“I like your shirt, but it would look better on my
“Will you marry me?” .

“Come sit on me.” — Petruchio to Kate in
Shakespeare's The Taming Of the Shrew

I_]iD1C]PIl .2

Flock

 

._ 1. 9-‘, ., ._—W_~;.;.,,'yew.‘2'-a'a‘a'«b'ra'&'4.'}'3*:‘>"'.'h'

W&LIF E

 

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

  

The Rin_gﬁ-tum Phi, November 19,1393

ARE vou v*<’°>*‘-'5’ BUN”

1
ll YOU LOSER!‘
‘N By A M\l.E..

   

 

 

ATUIUC rurunr Olin MARI PAWS‘

All ngnn me

1115 POTTY TRAININC7 OF 3-olw‘ Mc£NROF

  

mm Tribune man swans. me. / Ptuqgou. inc.
Nld.

 

You're a. plugrger if you flanked. you

0“ “I3 mark , by Mark Parisi PIUQQEVS by Jeff MacNelly ‘‘ - 
ADMA new ,"0UT" ?    ll

  

 

  

I

I

  

 
 

   

  

first drivers test.

I Colonnade Crossword

   

 
    

  
   
   

        
 
  

JULIA ROBE RT5

   

    

s ‘I.
. ,
I ' I

NON LEIUITUK

BY
\Vl§3/

 

 
   

 

 1llili11iii.*lll;lll D, I,

1 “
‘ ;\\\.\:§§

 

FM; umvs ARE

 

THE CHANGE ix
VOWM N0 M93
UNVERWEAR.

 

Fl.lLL,du$1'5‘ncK  ,

  
  
 

ACROSS 1
1 Spring
5 Lady

10 Cooing creature

14 Choir voice

15 Beta! palm

16 Racetrack

17 Place for

chickens
18 City in
Oregon

19 Jumble

20 Entangle

22 One on a

pension

24 Some votes

26 Bric-a--—

27 Channel for

water

31 Cuts

35 Oklahoma city

36 Aviates

38 Conflict

39 Retail event

41 Make into law

43 Outside: pref.

44 Fake

46 Goof © 3 T ‘ ne Media Services, Inc.

48 Wallet item We Reserved 1 1/18/93
49 V"° Last week’s puzzle solved
51 Bound to 6 a man —

succeed mouse?"

53 Candid 7 Gibson or

55 Note — Blanc

56 Hot 8 Sharp tasting

59 Lost at 9 Callers

sea 10 Dwelling
63 Rara — 11 — and done
64 Audibly with
67 Glen 12 Flower holder
68 Descartes or 13 Otherwise
Coty 21 One in bondage
69 Catchword 23 Soft mineral
70 Pointed arch 25 Fishing net
71 Alphabetic 27 Speaks hoarsely
letters 28 Boise‘s state
72 Make ingress 29 Bravery
73 Wander 30 Cherished ones
32 Saguaros
DOWN 33 Chemical

1 Taﬂlflg compound 47 Tear 58 Small

2 NC_ college 34 Gleamed 50 Malign 60 Role in

3 Unit of 37 Wash 52 Intensity of Shakespeare

matter . 40 Approves feeling 61 Kind of circus
4 Cartoon sailor 42 Bullrxng 54 Man—made fiber 62 Abound
5 Garmem label Performer 56 Playground 65 Mel ol baseball
W°rd 45 Sharp cry 57 Eye pan as Indian

  

SHOE

1. I 3,; IHAVE A BRIEF
I.  Ni STATEMENT
 on 
 ’l'‘‘ D
W“

II

 

       
   

9

will

‘ 1' PEROT'5 POSITION '

100 IF I'M NOT
\\ , MISTAKEN.
>
3“): xx //
*.:T:'.,\:-5
(\(l‘.‘\'C..

 Restaurant

at LEE Ill Truck Stop

 

BUFFET
Friday & Saturday Nights
T1 p.m. to 4 a.m.
Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 463-3478

 

Stonewall Square snap
LeX’ngt0n,V
4 63- 98 0 0

Take the€R::O‘€ﬁl7U$tEl7[ll/l“D_§'l\g7[E_l1¥§lIElérg/Q/"7. If we don’t have it, we will

order it for you and give you $2.00 0

Noon-10 p.m.

 

Horse Boarding

Excellent turnout with Private
Paddocks. Two miles from the
Virginia Horse Center on 39 West.
Riding lessons with Certified
Instructor. Trails, Flood-lit arena. Call
(703) 463-1636 and leave a message.

 
 

 

purchase price. Guaranteed
delivery in two working days.

 inh”rivs

Bad Company - What You Hear...

Chris Walker - Sincerely Yours

Queen Latifah - Black Reign
Blur - M odern Life is Rubbish
Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers — Greatest Hits

Michael Bolton - The One Thing
Paul McCartney — Paul is Live!!

Cu.-zsemas Gare Certipicates available”
 and up.

Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri & Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m., Sun.

  

ham . .
Thanksgiving! Polﬂnt of Vlew
estcrurant

Next to Days Inn, Rt. 60 West

  

463-7797
Casual Dining
Elegant Setting

Finest Steaks - Fresh Seafood
Pork Ribs - Banquet Facilities

Wanted: Waiters & Waitresses,
part time. Call: 463-7797

'8MYAlD7DAYPEIAGu
°I5MlU!l0YACK‘l‘8lA!lG!lIG3G.5TOC3l’lE!'

CALL (800 714 - 8687

FLQ 13A KEYS

?I~'ET»i.$.i-. D: f5§“l€E}.r.,§ l’:?{I'I:\5:i

 
  
  

  

ITS A PIRATES LIFE I

   
  
   
 
        
  

 

Party Picture Photographers Needed

Must have own 35 mm equipment & car P
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

l__

  
 

Now Playing Through Tuesday, Nov. 23
261-7292, 2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista

" ) , Show Times
v//Al’ -J/)(’I’(’I// Dally 7:00 a. 9:15 p.m.

Sat.&Sun. 12:30, 2:35, 4:45,
7:00 & 9:_15 p.m.

STARTING WED, Nov. 24
JURASSIC PARK

..///"////'///‘(J

PG I3

  

HOW ABOUT V

      
 
 
  

    

. . '
-— +.'
.

 

All Seats$ 1 

K

 

DO YOU ENJOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

Back yard skeet is fun, but compared to Sporting Claysﬂ
it’s boring

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot

to enjoy a round. !

Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

 

T1

 

 

9 The Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1993

3     r-Aug] ,
RICK 5 
Do  

  

AND no ANWAL FEE. rnugg) THAT  

WGHI ro MKEASE roux (ASH FLOW

»\

3‘ 3” 

 ou’r cor IT,
GU IT.”

 
   
   
 

    

PAGE 8

Clip: ﬂing-tum 15111
The Student Voice of Washington and Lee I
Founded September 18, 1897

Dance of denial  

In 1990 Congress passed the Federal Crime Aware-
ness and Campus Security Act. The law is supposed to
force colleges to be honest about crime on their cam-
puses, including sexual assault and rape. But Washing-
ton and Lee, like many universities and colleges, has ‘
managed to dance around the law.

Associate Dean of Students and University Psycholo-
gist Anne Schroer- Lamont says the law is ambiguous
and provides universities with loopholes to interpret the
law the way they see fit.

The result is that when campuses report crimes truth-
fully, they look far worse than many of their counter-
parts. In 1991, W&L reported four instances of rape and
sexual assault. That same year the University of Vir-
ginia, with a student body much larger than W&L’s,
reported no rapes or sexual assaults.

How? They only reported rapes and sexual assaults
that had been reported to local police, campus police or
were prosecuted in a court of law. Virginia Tech and
William and Mary, also larger than W&L, reported four
cases of sexual assault or rape. They used the same
criteria for reporting crimes UVa. did. W&L, on the
other hand, reported every crime the university knew
about, including crimes that had not been brought to
judicial action or convicted.

So what happened in 1992? UVa., Tech and W&M,
did not change their methods but W&L did. W&L now
reports rapes and sexual assaults that have been con-
firmed by campus or police judicial systems. The
problem with this is clear; most women that are raped do
not report it to the police and even if they do tell a
university official they do not necessarily take judicial
action. So what we are left with are campus crime
reports that are a bunch of statistical garbage, at least in
the instances of rape and sexual assault.

In fairness to W&L, the university does supply an
addendum to the campus crime report, which supplies
the number of rape or sexual assault cases reported to
official university systems, such as the Student Faculty
Hearing Board. »

The University also provides a description of the
crimes that were reported and details what judicial action
was taken or if the case was dismissed.

However, until all reports of sexual assault and rape
are reported, the addendum is still only a band-aid on a
broken limb.

F.K., N.P., M.B.

Quotes of the Week:

“And the award for the fastest dong goes to
KA and Phi Delt.”
——A Theta at the “gong” show

“What’s on your mind?”
——An audience member ’s response

“The Colonnade is a paradise for brick
fettishists.”

—English Professor George Ray

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, November 12, 1999 V

:73 '

Black Studies would debase W&L

Looking at most college catalogues you would not
notice that they fail to provide their students with a
liberal arts education.They are full of statistics on how
diverse the student body is and statements on the
institution’s commitment to multi—culturalism. These
facts, along with a lot of pretty pictures, give the
impression that the school’s “diversity,” both in its
student body and curriculum, will make its students
well rounded; liberally educated. Yet their insistence
on diversity, usually meaning
racial diversity, undermines
their ability to provide a lib-

a course of study dominated with leftist ideology.
The reason students major in it is because of its
political slant. They do not seek a “diversity” of
ideas, rather they only want more liberalism. We
might as well call it a Liberal Activist Major. “A
college experience,” Mr. Branam say “should be
expanding your horizons.” Unfortunately the only
expanding of horizons that would occur with a Black
Studies major is the expanding of the liberal position.

If Mr. Branam wants di-
versity so badly, why doesn’t
he work on getting more con-

eral education. Diversity sim-
ply means replacing ideas with
ethnicity as the cornerstone of
education. Their curriculums ,
are centered on the races of
mankind, instead of the intel-
lectual accomplishments of
mankind. Students leave such
institutions with knowledge _
usually a very politicized knowledge of the place of
race in world history, and ignorant of the great ideas

of civilization.

Washington and Lee has for the most part avoided
engaging in this debasing of liberal education. The
general education requirement helps all students to
attain, as the catalogue states, “a breadth of knowl-
edge.” And the major allows for further study into an
important category of thought. Anyone who gradu-
ates from W&L has been educated in the great ideas
of human civilization. They have been exposed to the
great ideas of not only one particular race but of all
mankind. This is what a liberal arts education is
suppose to entail, not specializing in one narrow
topic.

Recently a proposition has been put forth that
would, if successful, begin decaying W&L’s tradition
of producing liberally educated graduates. Sopho-
more John Branam has taken up the crusade to estab-
lish a Black Studies major. As reported in the Nov. 12
edition of The Ring-tum Phi, Mr. Branam believes
“there is a lack of diversity at W&L.” He proposes to
establish a Black Studies major to bring a “diversity
of thought” to W&L.

Anyone sincerely concerned with obtaining a lib-
eral arts education certainly is aware of the values of
alternative points of view, but a Black Studies major
would not bring new viewpoints to W&L. Its subject
matter is already present, though not in as narrow a
focus, in other courses, for example African Ameri-
can history is contained in American history.

A Black Studies major would only further promote
the same old liberal viewpoint that is already ad-
equately represented on campus. The only students
who would generally ﬁnd such a major of interests are
liberals. It would become just as it is at other colleges;

 

  ,%

servative faculty members?
There are plenty of liberal
and non-political professors,
but hardly any conservative
professors. Or is it that he
only wants a diversity of lib-
eralism? ,

Since Mr. Branam seems
to equate diversity of thought
with diversity of ethnicity, I would be happy to begin
work with Mr. Branam on implementing a Norwe-
gian Studies major, that is, again, if he sincerely
wants diversity. As a Norwegian-American I can
testify to how Norwegians signiﬁcantly contributed
to American history.

ANDREW
OLMEM,

There are only so many books and courses stu-
dents can absorb in four years. Therefore, the sub-
jects studied should be the most valuable ones. ¢
Black Studies major discards great works by'whi e
authors solely to “represent” black authors. Can any
one claim to be liberally educated who is unfamiliar
with the works of Shakespeare, Locke or Newton?
Too often these great books are replaced with mate-
rials, which may have some value, but do not hold
the same importance in understanding mankind’s
intellectual achievements. For example it’s safefo
say more college students read the book The Color
Purple than read TheFederalistPapers or Darwin’s
Origin of Species. The latter are important works
that any liberally education person should under-
stand. Trying to replace them with works of lesser
value, simply to have minority writers, corrodes the

ideal of liberal education. '
Those advocating diversity as a means to open
student minds to new ideas should realize that a
liberal art education achieves this goal. A curricu-
lum that exposes students to the greatest ideas in
each discipline gives them a base built on the great-
est ideas of mankind from which they can rationally
examine all other views. It develops in them frie
minds that search for knowledge, disregarding the
author’s racial views.

There is a valuable Why all the fuss
point of view that could ~ over a major that few
be obtain by studying  no students will use?
NorwegianAmericans. yone who graduate? from Allowingindividuals
St. Olaf College has a W&L has been edlmated In the to graduate ignoragrt
similar program and it great ideas of human civilization_ of many of mankind’s

enhances its curricu-
lum. By Mr. Branam’s
criteria this should
qualify as another op-
portunity to continue
crusading in the name
of diversity. While we
are at it, let’s have a
Rich Studies major.

They have been exposed tolthe,
great ideas of not only one par-
ticular race, but of all mankind.
This is what a liberal arts educa-
tion is suppose to entail, not spe-
cializing in one narrow topic.

greatest ideas deval-
And when employers

meet a W&L gradu-
ate who "5
uneducated, W&L’s
reputation dimin-
ishes. ’

The rich have had an
important, according to
some a dominate, role in world history. There is a
plethora of academic research on this group that

‘ would form the basis of such a major. It certainly

would increase the diversity of thought.

The point is that a liberal arts education examines
the contributions of all groups to the intellectual
achievements of mankind. By focusing on one group,

valuable knowledge is ignored simply because its _

originator is classiﬁed in another group. Great ideas
transcend race and wealth. Would the value of
Einstein’s ideas be different had he been black? It is
time we, and most of academia, gets beyond race and
examines what truly matters: ideas.

There are much

better ways to enrich

a W&L education

than dedicating valuable resources to a Black Silk‘-

ies Major. Allocating these resources to help s -

dents study aboard would add more to a greater
number of students’ education.

As with most important issues, the decision on a
Black Studies major will be made by the administra-
tion. Hopefully they understand the purpose of a
liberal education and will accordingly disregard the
proposals. But if they, as they so often do, tryﬂo
make W&L like other colleges by implementing it,
we shall certainly see, to paraphrase Alan Bloom,
the closing of the Washington and Lee mind.

Don’t malign Kennedy’s memory ’

_ ues a W&L diploma. ,

and other individuals ,

Tilt: iRing-tum ilﬂltt

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sport Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _.Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent. I

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views ” dolnot reflect the views of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

, The Ring-tum Phi
Post ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

Thirty years ago Monday, one of
the greatest tragedies in American his-
tory took place in Dallas, Texas. The
nation mourned the death of the first
assassinated president in over 60 years.
Anyone who was alive then will never
forget where they were the moment
they heard President Kennedy had been
killed. My generation does not have
that burden. None of us were alive on

“real truth” about JFK. We have seen
detailed descriptions of alleged extra-
marital affairs, drug use, Mafia con-
nections, illness, and the shortcomings
of the Kennedy family. The result of
these programs has been to all but strip
away every fond memory or image we
had of John Kennedy. For those who
remember him, many have reevaluated
and lowered their former regard for

 

November22, him. For
1963, and those, like
noneofus can myself, who
remember the are not fortu-
impact John PATRICK ‘ nate enough
Kennedy’s to have
life and death MCDEMOH9 memories of
had on this ’94 his life, we
nation. All havebegunto
that we know question and
ofthismanhas disapproveof
come from what we had

history books and television specials
devoted to various aspects of the
Kennedy presidency and assassination.

Most of us have seen the home
movies of Jack and Bobby playing
touch football in Hyannisport. We have
seen the stark black and white photo-
graphs of JFK in the White House, and
we have seen the tragic Zapruder ﬁlm.
We have all been strangely fascinated
by this man. Even those of ,us who
weren’talive duringthe Kennedy years
feel an overwhelming sense of curios-
ity about the life of John Kennedy, and,
for a long time, we all had a rather
idealized image of him. We were never
shown his faults for fear of dishonorin g~
his memory. We believed he was the
idyllic ﬁgure that we saw in pctures
and movies. Recently, this has all
changed.

We have been deluged with what
seems like a never-ending stream of
media events, each one promising the

seen as a unique time in American
history. The cynics of this world have
proﬁted from our fascination with this
man and from their efforts to tarnish
his image in our minds. I cannot think
of a more despicable act.

I am very proud to say that John
Fitzgerald Kennedy is one of my he-
roes. I say this with full knowledge of
his failings and mistakes and with a
clear sense of what he meant to this
country. It was initially very difﬁcult
for me to accept the fact that my hero
was not a perfect person, that he had
done things I would not approve. But
then I realized this person was a human
being and none of us are perfect people.
What I think is important to remember
about John Kennedy is not that he
made mistakes, we all do but that he
was a man with an incredible vision for
the future of this country.

He believed in the ideals this nation
was founded on. He believed in com-

munity, in service, in equality for all
Americans, and in the basic goodness
of all citizens. He had hopes of making
the country a better place for all of its
people and for improving our relations
with the rest of the world. He was an
idealist, a visionary and ﬁlled the na-
tion with pride and hope for the future
of our country. He was the ﬁrst presi-
dent in a long time who had the ability
to inspire patriotism, not because of a
military victory, but because of the
way he could express the hopes and
beliefs of every citizen who was listen-
ing to him. He was an eloquent speaker,
anaccomplishedstatesman,andasawy
politician.

John F. Kennedy had a difﬁcult
presidency. He was confronted with
many crises and he did not always
make the right decisions. What I would
ask of those who ﬁnd iteasy to criticize

they can consider themselves to be
without failings.

The basic point is that we expect a
lot of our presidents. We want them I.)
be perfect and that is just not possible.
In President Kennedy’s case, I do not
believe we should ignore his faults and
idealize his memory but I also disap-
prove of proﬁting from its deﬁlement.
And yet, we, as Americans, seem to
have a need to hear about the scanda9s
concerning JFK. Perhaps it is our way
of dealing with the horrendous crime
that was committed against all of us
when he was taken away. Perhaps it is
the only way we know to relieve the
pain many of us still feel from his
killing. 0

If that is the case, then I think it is
one of the saddest elements of this
whole situation. We must begin to ac-
cept the various aspects of John

him, is to name . V Fitzgerald
an administra- Kennedy, for
tion that was better or fix
without ﬂaws. I worse. We
There has never am Very Proud to must accept
been one and say that John Fitzgerald thefactthathe
theie never will K d - I f was a good
be. All presi- enne y ls 0ne_0 ‘Ely man, that we
dents make mis- heroes. I say this Wlth deserve to be
tjakes and we all‘ full knowledge of his proud of hing
tsagree with . . . and that we
them from time falhngs and mlstakes should seri-
t°time- What is ‘and with a clear sense of ously ques-
im rtant to re- . tion the mo-
mepriiber is the what he meant to this tives of any-
spirit that John C0lllltl'y. onewhoseeks
Kennedy ' tocondem A
brought to the him. We nee ‘

ofﬁce of the president. To those who
question his personal behavior, I would
say that his character ﬂaws were not
unique in the history of the presidency.
I would also ask those who criticize
him to ﬁrst examine whether or not

not shy away from history or from the
personal truth entangled with the
Kennedy image. What we must do is
accept him for what he was, be proud
he was our president, and mourn the
loss that can never be forgotten.

 

     
 

§

e Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1993

 

    
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
    
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
 

~ nos’ SPACE
Tom Hespos

Attention Spos’ Space fans -— the
fﬁcial line of Marvel Comics silk ties
s now available in town at yourfiiendly
eiéiborhood College Town Shop. Do
Iou know what this means? Does any-
’* dy truly realize the social ramiﬁca-
ons of attending a job interview with
I e Incredible Hulk plainly visible
round one’s neck? Of course not.
For those who are not familiar with
I'heKIollege Town Shop, it is located
on Nelson Street, right near The Palms.
As a slobbering fan of comic books,
Spos was pleasantly surprised to see
the shop’s window display featuring
neckties emblazoned with the likes of
Spidennan, Thor, Wolverine, Captain
Arrnrica and, of course, the Hulk. Spos
thought carefully and selected Wol-
verine. After all, Spos wanted the gen-
eral public to be awed by an image of a
crazed man with unbreakable metal
claws leaping forth from his necktie.
The possibilities are staggering:

b Interviewer: Mr. Hespos, I
can see from your choice of tie that you
have nerves of steel, not to mention
cojones of brass. Your starting salary
will be $125,000. Does that suit you?

Spos: Throw in a BMW and your
wife and I think we have a deal.
Eb Interviewer: Done.
any case, Spos would like to
suggest that everyone on campus ac-
quire a Marvel Comics tie for the sake

of making Career Development’s job a
little easier. I would also like to suggest
that everyone buy the tie when W&L
senior Kristen Moore is working at the
College Town Shop, because she prob-
ably works on commission, and she is
a very nice girl.
Speaking of superheroes, Spos’ fa-
ther made an offhanded remark in a
message on Spos’
answering ma-
chine that he had
better pass all of
his courses this
term, lest Super-
man not be able to
save his sorry butt
from a violent gory
death. It made me
think: if I could
enlist the aid of Su-
perinan, all of my
professors would
be forced to pass
me in fear that Su- ”
perman would
melt their faces off
with his heat vi-
sion. Of course, my
geology professor
would probably be
able to produce
some Kryptonite, thus ruining my plan.
But why shouldn’t W&L have its own
superhero to help the innocent students
in their everyday lives? Spos would
like to introduce... (drumroll, please)
Captain Dubyuhnell.
Real Name: Joe Duckhead
Occupation: Protector of the Cam-
pus, Advocate of the Students, Guard-

 

ian of the Beer Supply, and occasional
hotshot journalist (for thePhi, of course)

Height: 6’2” (aren’t all superheroes
this height?)

Weight: 205 lbs. on the weekdays,
216 lbs. on the weekends

Known Superhuman Powers:

no Flight (like Superman) —can ﬂy
at speeds of up to Mach 7. Useful for
shuttling drunk
students to and
from Zollman’s,
delivering impor-
tant messages to
alumni on the west
coast, and ﬂying
cute girls up to the
Blue Ridge Park-
way for amorous
encounters.

In Superhuman
strength (like the
Hulk)—can lift at
least 60 beer kegs
atonce. Usefulfor
squeezing money
out of the occa-
sional stingy alum-
nus, lifting truck-
loads of bricks for
future “construc-
tion projects” and
breaking up ﬁghts at fraternity parties.

«I» Stretchy limbs (like Plasticman)
——-Can stretch from the EC ofﬁce to
Ashby Hackney’s bedroom, to wake
him up for important EC meetings.

no Wall-crawling (like Spiderman)
—Allows Captain Dubyuhnell to climb
up the side of Newcomb Hall and wait
in hiding for the Cadaver Society, which

- bird, a plane, it’s Capt. Dubyuhnell

LETTERS

  

PAGE 9

needs some discipline (in the form of
being blasted with lasers, see next para-
graph) for spray-painting things and
leaving the campus-a mess.

no Laser Vision (like Cyclops, of
the X-Men) — Useful for incinerating
members of the Cadaver Society, which
is, of course, just ﬁne. ‘

use Big hammer (like Thor) — for
mashing R.D. Clark’s turbo golf cart
into itty-bitty pieces and exacting re-
venge on Mayor Derrick forthe cartax.

In Utility Belt (like Batman) —
contains all the necessary materials to
set up a complete wet bar. Also con-
tains various gas grenades: Lysol, for
deodorizing fraternity houses; Invis-
ibility gas, for making ugly new cam-
pus buildings disappear on Alumni
Weekend; and tear gas, for making
students more sensitive and forcing
them to cry whenever Michael Hewlett
publishes another “Sins of the Honkies”
column.

Personally, Spos thinks Captain
Dubyuhnell could make our university
among the best in the nation. Think of
the things you could tell the prospec-
tive students: “Robert E. Lee is buried
right over here, here is a statue of Cyrus
McConnick, and Captain Dubyuhnell
is over there, ﬂying to East Lex on
another beer run.”

And we won’t have to worry about
waking up in the morning to ﬁnd the
campus plastered with Cadaver signs.
We’ll just ﬁnd little puddles of goo and
burnt robes all over the place. Speak-
ing of Cadavers, there goes one now...
Zzzzzzzzzzzooooooorrrrrrrrtttttttt!
Um... actually, never mind.

 

Library

James G. Leyburn Library
Thanksgiving Hours: Friday, Nov.
19, close at 6 p.m.; Saturday, Nov.
20, open 9 a.m. — 4 p.m.; Sunday,
Nov. 21 , closed; Monday-Wednes-
day, Nov. 22-24, open 8:30 a.m. —
4:30 p.m.; Thursday-Friday, Nov.
25-26, closed; Saturday, Nov. 27,
open 9 a.m. -4 p.m.; Sunday, Nov.
28, resume 24 hour schedule at 12
noon.

Concert

“A Waltz Through the Life of
Frederic Chopin:” pianist David
Northington of the University of
Tennessee will present this “musi-
cal biography” on the Sunday Re-
cital Series on Sunday, Nov. 21, in
Francis Auditorium of Mary
Baldwin College. All 14ofChopin’s
waltzes will be played, with com-
mentary. Admission is free.

This week’s General Notes were compiled by Richard Weaver.

Letters

Letters and “My Views” may be
submitted by anyone by Tuesday at
noon. All submissions will be
printed in the order in which they
are received. They may be dropped
off in room 208 of University Cen-
ter or mailed to The Ring-tum Phi,
P.O. Box 899, Lexington, VA, '
24450.

Phl
The Ring-tum Phi is looking for
new reporters, copy editors, and
advertising people. If interested
please come to our weekly meet-

ings, Tuesdays at 7 p.m. in room
208 of University Center.

New date

The Phi will next publish on
December 3, 1993.

   

To the editor:

In his Nov. 7 Washington Post column en-
titlﬁi “The Banality Of the Murder” Edwin M. newspapers of magazines
Yoder, Jr., belittle a class of Washington and which i-eguiariy publish
Lee sophomores because not one of them re- reams of vapid puhditi-y for
sponded to him that reading the 26 volumes of the likes of Mi», Yoder _ and
the Warren Commission Report would be 8 youwillgetnocreditforyour
good way to clarify doubts about the ofﬁcial effoi-ts_ Even if you foilow
explanation ofthe Kennedy assassination raised ML Yoder’s prescription to
byﬂvatching Oliver Stone’s movie, “JFK.” I the letter you wii] find that
would venture to say that Professor Yoder’s you haveonly eamedthe con-

students aren’t as out of it as he thinlgsthgy §t_6,;__., 59$‘? ,.2appe_i%:;_tion ,_p_f ,

Infact, if they know anything at an about the :‘o“r‘:eons i ‘Cy theor

assassination, and they have just aitiriy 'Iilt?bf ‘ii-§§E”€irn5~‘ to-,'fge~,..«_:t‘,5«;b‘e ‘tgkgii 1?.

intellectual honest, most are already ahead of ’ seriously «by the syeophahtie
their esteemed professor. ’ fiatemity of modem-day
Orofessor Yoder misleads you, I think inten- scribes and phat-isees ofwhieh
tionally, by suggesting that your Stone-whetted Mi», Yoder is 3 eai-d-ean-yihg
appetite for knowledge would be best satisﬁed member_
by ﬁrst searching for and then wading into the
(purposely?) disorganizing 26 volumes of the
government brief for the posthumous prosecu-
tion of the defenseless Lee Harvey Oswald.
Yo; might eventually get to that stage, but you
should ﬁrst sample the fruits of a few of the
many ﬁne, independent minds which have pro-
duced several shelves of excellent books on the
subject.
Should you do so, the ﬁrst thing that will

for time and you are not satis-
ﬁed to let either the govern-
ment, the major news media,
Hollywood, or, heaven for-

thinking for you, you might

D

If you are really pressed '

bid, your professors do your .

just to turn to a single illustration that I have
enclosed that appears in an appendix of the
book that Mr. Yoder calls “a very persuasive

exploration of the Kennedy case,” Gerald
Posner’s Case Closed. What you will see is a
drawing’ of President
Kennedy with a head that
sprouts somewhere out of
his sternum instead of his
normal-length neck. Posner
had to have it drawn that
way so that a bullet coming
down from a sixth ﬂoorwin-
dow, entering the back about
six inches below the collar

The shattered myth
Osv.-a!d'zsoeor\dttI>Ltneﬂrsttosarie.ialheniost
czx1tectie1.I.nisvatIoI9tI:aii¢dttse'nin§c‘or‘DV3tinI'
t>izIt1byeorwtvaeymuxtns.vmoco"uA-ndttiaxrlosince
buletcc-ndmenierloinlywouuedmmnwimibsmln
necdodnermaearniu-as
netpItazne.Its:rq‘ecwry.

downward ﬂight, could

throat. If this, and much else
like it in Posner’s shameless
screed, is the sort of thing
you find persuasive then
maybe you deserve Mr.
Yoder’s contempt.

I am not a Kennedy as-
sassination buff. Trying to
inform myself about a mat-
ter of such importance to the
country. is not a hobby in
which I take pleasure.

I will confess to having read a great deal
about the subject as an obligation of citizen-

 

rrzline and -gcontinuing on its:

' er'ne‘rger‘from~ Kennedy’s~ I: ~

ship, and from my readings I am convinced that
Oliver Stone is a lot closer to the truth than is
Gerald Posner or the Warren Report. If that is
so, then exactly the wrong attitude to take is the
dismissive one of Mr. Yoder, that this is just one
of those mysteries which will never be solved.
Down that road lies tyranny.

Finally, I would like to offer an even more
efﬁcient way for a substantial percentage of
Washington and Lee’s student body to become
better informed about the Kennedy assassina-
tion. Mr. Yoder concludes his article by saying

..:that none of the critics have even disturbed the

conclusions of the Warren _Repor_t. I propose
 1/: '- K”, .5 »'

-It .

Post reader disagrees with Yoder, challenges him to JFK debate

happen is you will begin to wonder why you
never get to read any of these things in any of the

that we debate that point on campus, before as
many students as possible, at a convenient time
of his choosing.

Should he refuse this challenge I humbly
suggest that a serious student would make a
more socially constructive use of his time watch-
ing an episode of Beavis and Butthead, or
maybe, as Butthead might say, choking his
chicken than attending one of Professor Yoder’s
classes.

Sincerely,
Gary D. Martin, Ph.D.
Chantilly, Virginia

To the editor:

Co-chairmen, SDC

SDC thanks volunteers

We would like to thank all members of the Student Development Committee and
volunteercallers during this fall’s Phonathon.We received over $20,000 in pledges towards
the Annual Fund which benefits all members of the Washington and Lee community. We
look forward to an even stronger participation during the winter Phonathon. If anyone is
willing to participate in upcoming Phonathons, please leave your name with Maureen
Levey in the Development Ofﬁce at 463-8487.

Mark Crider, ’95 and Marguerite Nielson, ’94

Dennard should back up column with car tax facts

To the editor:

I read with some interest Ryan
Dennard’s column in the Nov. 12 Phi.
Inﬂearly seven years in Lexington, four
of them on the staff of this newspaper,
I have heard countless arguments for
and against the so-called-car tax.
Although Dennard offered some in-

 
 

teresting criticisms of this assessment,
I’m not sure he has found away around
it.

My understanding is that this tax is
one on personal property. As such, the
city has argued, the tax applies to cars
that are primarily parked or garaged in
Lexington.

 

Consequently, city officials have
claimed that ownership of a particular
car is irrelevant‘; what matters is the
location of the car.

If location is the issue, then
Dennard’s suggestion that students and
parents trade title to their cars on tax
day would seem to be a waste of time

and money.

Of course, I hope Dennard is right;
as someone who just last week cut a
check to Rockbridge County, I wish
there were a simple way around this
assessment.

Before I rely on your columnist,
however, I would like to know his

sources. Dennard’s column contains
no attribution, so I can only assume he
cooked his scheme up on his own.

Phi readers would be better served
if, instead of engaging in speculation,
Dennard tested his theory with a little
reporting.

Telephone calls to city ofﬁcials or a

tax lawyer might be a good way to give
your readers some more reliable ad-
vice. .

I look forward to reading these pages
in the future to see what such efforts

‘might produce. ' \

James B. Lake, ’90, ’94L

 

 

   

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

  

Jason Aiken, ’94, Atlanta, Ga. —
“Pushing my car back to Atlanta.” “Bowling, partying, and spendingtime

with my family and friends.”

  

JenniferEul, ’97, Camp Hill, Pa.-— Scott Williard, ’96, Miami Fla., and Bo M
“Buying overalls and getting laid.”

  

TALKBACK

 

   

anuel, ’96, Easton, Md. —

.How do you intend to spend your Thanksgiving break?

“Fake n’ bake.”

Kim Davis, ’96, Atlanta, Ga.

Steve Wasser, ’94, Allentown, Pa.
—“Shooting heroin and watching alot
of River Phoenix movies.”

     

  

  

PAGE 10

RACISM

EXPOSED!

An Anthology of Racial Columns

 .

W&L students salute their Homecoming queen.

Michael Hewlett

Editor ’s N ate: this book cover is a parody submitted by the authors
of this “My View.- ”

Thanks to the publishing house of Waddy
and Schneider, you can now read Michael
Hewlett’s racial columns in an accessible,
leather-bound, gold leaf edition worthy of his
prose. This collector’s edition has everything
from his highly acclaimed “There’s more to
black people than basketball” to his inspira-
tional “Dear Whoopi.” In addition, Hewlett
brilliantly uncovers and exposes racists at
W&L. You will see W&L students saluting
their Homecoming queen with a Nazi salute
(see book cover), as well as groups of prospec-
tive minority students being herded around
like “human chattel.”

“He writes nicely and seems to attempt bal-
anced articles.” —' Kirk Susong

“Before I could only read Hewlett’s columns
one at a time, but now, in Racism Exposed, I
have all his racial woes in one easy-to-read
volume.

— I.M. White, Ph.D.

“Michael includes a treasure trove of histori-
cal examples of racial oppression... You will
not come away from this book the same racist
as you are now.”

— Rockbridge County Times

“Michael’s message is unforgettable... but
just in case you begin to forget it half way,
through the book, he reminds you again and
again.”

— Roanoke Daily Press

11 S. Jefferson S ._ __ 463-2595
 THE ,
- SANDWICH SHOP

Wild Grass playing on Friday, Nov. 19

9 p.m. $2 cover charge

  
 
  
   

15 W. WASHINGTON ST.
LEXINGTON

  lll.lll.'li.'.‘.$£|'l

THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
HATS AND OTHER W&L SPORTWEAR
l.EXlHGTOll'S OHLY SOURCE FOR TEVAS AHO HERRlll BOOTS

WE DO MAIL ORDER!
703 464-3000

W&L Art  

We have three

R. E. Lee

Signatures; Two are War Date.
W&L Copperplate, hand-colored

W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art

Sculpture by Ron Tunison

Mary and George Washington pieces

iiiiiiiiu ll llllﬁ
   ?::é..iéen.%2i'£.:%“rday

kk

, Just imagine... your ad
could be in this space and
both you and the Phi
would be much happier

lln case you haven't noticed, C ristmas is just aroun the corner.

50 why not make everyone happy this holiday season and get them a sub-

4 East Washin ton Street ,
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

 

OPINION

Hewlett’s columns know no bounds

MY VIEW, Nicholas Waddy, ’96 and Andrew Schneider, ’94

 %8

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1993

  

Susong should rethink his ideas

Dear Mr. Susong,

I must say that I was more than
mildly disturbed when I read your let-
ter in TheRing-tum Phi. Your response
seems emblematic of the narrow-
minded, ignorant thinking I encounter
at this school.

With all honesty, your letter scares
me because you have misunderstood
my main purpose in writing these “My
Views” —— to expose the W&L com-
munity to a different perspective, a
decidedly black perspective. I wanted
to contribute to the intellectual growth
of this campus by recounting, as writer
Jill Nelson calls it, my authentic Negro
experience. Furthermore, I wanted to
provide a forum for an honest discus-
sion about race — a topic that most
people would avoid rather than even
mention.

I take issue with your characteriza-
tion of these “My Views” as focusing
mainly on castration and the “sins of
the honkies.” They are not. If you read
them closely enough, you will realize
that they encompass more than those
two things. I have also talked with
Nicholas Waddy (I suggest that you do
the same), and he told me that his
characterization of these “My Views”
as an attack on the “sins of the honkies”
was meant to be a joke (a rather unfunny
joke, but a joke nonetheless).

You mentioned the one I wrote on
black history and categorized it as-con-
fused thinking. Well, I was rather con-

fused myself. Even though you admit
you are an “ignorant cracker” and did
not know who Ella Baker, Fannie Lou
Hamer, or Dorothy Height were, you
had “a difficult time imagining their
contributions on the same level as the
Founding Fathers.” Well, I would imag-
ine it would be rather difficult given
your obvious ignorance about black
history. My suggestion would be that
you go to the library and get some
books on these “three illustrious la-
dies” before you start comparing them
to our great Founding Fathers. For if
you had done your homework, you
would have realized these important
women breathed life into the Constitu-
tion. during the Civil Rights Move-
ment. Your statement reveals a com-
plete lack of appreciation for the his-
tory of blacks in this country which is
rather sad. And by the way, if you want
to call yourself an “ignorant cracker,”
then please feel free to do so.

You also attacked the “My View”

on political incorrectness. You could -

not understand how I could support
free speech and at the same time op-
pose racial and sexual intolerance. I’m
not saying that racists should be cen-
sored. That great philosopher, Voltaire,
once said: “I disapprove of what you
say, but I will defend to the death your
right to say it.” What I am saying is that
racist ideas should not be tolerated by
a civilized society. If you recall your
history, it was these same ideas that

Comintctions:

Friday, ]anuaiy21, 1994.

lt’s or,Ch

arity and it’s Fun!
.

  
    
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
  

caused the Nazi Holocaust, thq en
slavement of blacks, and the intermen
of Japanese-Americans during Worl
War II. So please understand if I hav
a little trouble tolerating racism an
sexism.

Finally, I have difficulty understand
ing your surprise that I had “not afﬁxe o
the initials ‘ FMC’ (Free Man of Color)’
to my name or your sarcastic renamin 
of the Civil War as “The War of North
em Aggression.” I found these remark
rather childish and immature. I woul "
greatly appreciate it if you would re
frain from such nasty slights as l.t'in
them rather offensive. They weaken
your arguments dramatically. I found
it rather hard to take your points seri-
ously. Your letter proves that W&
does have a race problem. For some-
one who calls himself a college stu-
dent, I would hope that part of our
education would be to open yours If t 0-
diverse perspectives and ideas —— rathe
than focus on yourown narrow-minde 0
ones.

But I see that you have not taken full
advantage of the W&L experience.
Obviously, I did not make my poin
clear in the previous five “My Viﬂivs.”
Maybe you should rethink some 0
your ideas and expose yourself to other
ideas. You might actually learn some
thing.

Sincerely,

Michael Hewlett, ’96
0
A

SAM5 5-’ RARA are sponsoring The Annual W&L I
Rock-a-Like LipSynch at the ever popular W&L Pavilion, '

F

SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO
FREE!!! Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus-reps.
Call 800-648-4849.

W?

\‘

HARDWARE STORES

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open, Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2186

 
 

    

   

Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottes
Spring Break Destinations, call the
nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
J ' Programs 1-800-327-6013. 

WHEN YDII RIDE Dﬂﬂmﬂi MDBE
FDR THE IIDAD HAVE
All EIITIBEII DIFFERENT MEANING.

. ..-INTERNATIONAL
EMPLOYMENT

Make up to $2,000-$4,000+ P91'_
month teaching basic
conversational English abroad.
Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea.
Many employers provide room
-8: board + other benefits. No
teaching background or Asian
languages required. For more

information call:
(206) 632-1146 Ext. J5342

    
  
  
   
   

 
 
  
    
    
   
   
    
  
  
    
   
    
 
   
 
   

Completely Risk Free!!

Run

and ‘.7{e5taurant

   
 
   
 
  

T}7l9\[QLf5 ﬂair safon

See Yourself With Any Hairstyle Change . . .

12 Styles on Video for only $19.99
Tuesday, November 30th ,_ V ,
Call or come by for an appointment

College Square, RT 11 N. Lexington 463-1605 .

‘4.:,x.~ A

_~. . ,s. '' ~ - .
/:01 ..-A-. ' "‘ -:.-.‘-’ ’.~=-.
.s‘.\ V n 1 I‘: °'

4:‘-,
-. --

  
  
    
   

  

r.‘-P.

   

Chef Stewart prepares aily culinary delights
Featuring Weekly -Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

'1' Six Room Inn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dinin ' 
' Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

   
   
   

_4._.._...... .... ._.._...

 
     
  
    
  
  
 

  

   

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Fall / Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

  
  
    
  
   

1-1:‘ 4 -I

 

Your folks are still asking you about life at school.

Schedule your holiday parties Now!
 Gift Certiﬁcates & Holiday Packages Now Available 3, _
m, Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) 
' " 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. » «
Call for reservations: 70-463-9715

...:*"“

  

:5. . 3., 1.-. , u,_,._ :4. I
3,-Q ~{.g.—_.\’-:’§-:,.,f\.¥,’;‘.-5

  

      

scription to The Ring-tum Phi .' H campus tradition for 96 years, it's
theirs for only $25. H
Now aren't your folks worth 25 bucks?
Besides, it’ll make them happy.

To subscribe, call 462-4060

\

‘I _  V.»-»..»....-..-.-...n....-..~..

 

The Hing-tum Phi, November 19, 1993

   Hams eater  
I THANSG VIN SALE

GOLDEN
DELIGHT

  POTOES

I GRADE 'A'
18-22 LB. AV

‘.—Z1,;
I‘\yx.

. \.
.;~ \.

ALL SIZES GRADE ’SELF BASTIN ‘LI  I ‘L   .  _   : I 

  sunmm ﬁg   ”“”2I;.‘cIII‘I‘uI.é2.'3IIé‘E’”5‘   3  . -  99

-TURKEY... ........... ..u3.O   ,_,._.q‘.’BEAN$', ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, “L3;
GRADE "A" ‘

HT GRADE "A" WITH POP-UP TIMER S I  I .««»«m..
GOLDEN DELl§1I:-IL‘;  PREMIUM A1 - kg,-E  FRESH, cmsp  FLORIDA NAVALm_  89
HEN TLIRI(EY..6.V.F.BA.s=iE..LB.O TURKEY ......... ..ua. 0 h LARGE CEI-ERY. EA. SIALKO ORANGES 

....... ..'§'.‘S‘....EA.

PERDUE FRESH HEN OR I 21-25 COUNT HT FRENCH OR FLAKY HERB OR CORNBREAD

JUMBO     BROWN & PEPPERIDGE EARM
TURKEY SHRIMP   SERVE ROLLS 9 ST UEEING

9 —s ~‘ 3'3
‘o:.$‘;:‘$_o‘I“f.
,i.~‘.o'."‘..-!r"o

. \ .
.:'n..‘Q

SMOKED _ HAMILTON H.?I.I;lE>L; I/3vLI-F<iEED  DEL MONTE I W GRAPE
.PICNIC ................ ......8   §'i'IE?b HAM ,,,,,,,,,,,, “.32 VEGETABLES ....... ..I6-I7OZ.O JUICE ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, "W.
. I‘/JVIPORTED COOKED

A _ 99 ELTEWING SIZE 79 SELECTED VARHE3 69  89
Hﬁivu ............... -12 oz. 2 ovsrms .................  3 'E':I‘KI:’:€EIe§.'IffI$.,o.5 OJ cuocomrs MoRssLs...n oz.E

BETTY CROCKER PRESIDENT '5 CHOICE EAGLE RIPPLES ~ DIET PEPSI OR
SUPERMOIST CAKE MIX IT'S VERY CLEAR DRINKS RIDGED CI-IIPS PEPSI COLA

. SELECTED 2 
_ VARIE S ‘
 2/ I00 5.5";

. gig OZ.

KRAFT PHILADELPHIA SELECTED VARIETIES PRE-PACK RED SKIN

CREAM mm  MILLSTONE 99 POTATO «;vﬂ§g;KERY 99 ECAAIEEWLEE 2/ 00
.¢CHEESE.....f3’7I’f’7I.aoz,o COFFEE ................. ..22oz. SALAD .................... ..LB. PUMPKIN PIE ..... ..3

7 OZ.

OCEAN smv II1"lhIR’lL(EEDYELDTAl'TflREYR HUNTER All NAWRM
cmmsmv SAUCE    99 ICE CREAM

L‘ Iv  I . I  I 1. ' . J ‘L-\'
  ”'77'.' V. ‘I  IL ,'  fa’ 4? ..   a_1o LBDl(rJ‘D‘gI:EE|g(‘:l’lLJUFL)I(EsY:
v 1 .,1. Ln‘ V '- ,  _' “ '1 -';-1.1 ' .
WHO“-’  _  I "51 f;   4. I  ' IS :8f3‘l’é$“e‘i.‘I’y$" “G
'6  A .3.-_.___ -  ,, ‘A “ -12.02. CRANBERRY RELISH
. _

SERVES 8-10

PRICES IN THIS AD EFFECTIVE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER I7 THROUGH TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24,1993 IN .  __, _In Lexington STORES ONLY_
WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO LIMIT QUANTITIES. NONE SOLD TO DEALERS. WE GLADLY ACCEPT FEDERAL FOOD STAMPS. ‘

O

I

  

Last Week:

FB—W&L 34, Catholic 0

X-C—women second in Regionals
Swim—men, women beat Centre
Wrest—at VMI invit., indiv. only

PAGE 12

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
 
 
    
 
 
  

Championship this weekend.

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Phi
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer, practicing this week
on the Washington and Lee track, will compete along
with classmate Amy Mears in the Division III National

3

@112 rang-mm ram

PORTS

BASKETBALL, CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

AWAY GAMES

 

BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

hoops fans. Speaking of top 25...

one each.

games.

Wrestling

The wrestling season kicked
off last Saturday at the VMI in
their Keydet Invitational. The
match saw two Generals reached
the finals, only to finish second.

Sophomore Colin Looney, at
177, beat Keydet Matthew Stark
2-0, only to lose to Mac Smith of
Virginia Tech. Junior Adam
Williamson (142) downed two
opponents, Jun Davis and Kyle
Hathaway of Virginia Tech, be-
fore being overcome by their
teammate, Dan Austin, in a 10-7
decision.

Sophomore Cole Van Nice
(190) picked up two wins and
ﬁnished third. Freshman Steve

    
 

     

it! i0P.P°!...ll1h1lY’.'
udent‘sjto;:witness

 

College basketball begins in earnest in the next few weeks with the
pre-season National Invitational Tournament. This collection of top
25 teams promises to provide early season excitement for college

The ﬁnal pre-season polls were announced today with North
Carolina, Kentucky, and Duke topping the list. The Atlantic Coast
Conference placed ﬁve teams in the list with the aforementioned
UNC and Duke, plus Georgia Tech, Florida State, and Virginia. The
Big Ten (1 1) also made a strong showing with Michigan and Indiana
making the top 10. UNC was nearly the unanimous number one,
receiving 32 of the 34 first place votes. Duke and Kentucky received

On the professional side of basketball (unless you are a UNLV
fan), I seem to have neglected the Houston Rockets in my pre-season
analysis. The Hakeems, excuse me, Rockets, have fired out to a
resounding undefeated record so far along with the Sonics (another
team I forgot) and the Knicks (called,that one, baby). Mark my
words, this is the year of the Knicks. The Thugs stand a good chance
of holding off any challengers. It ain’t pretty, but they win basketball

With MJ out of basketball, the league scoring title is once again up
in the air (or out of it, if you prefer puns). Right now the front runners
are Mr. Wilkins from Atlanta, Mr. O’Neal from Orlando, Mr.
Olajuwon, and Jeff Konkak (well, maybe not). My pick for the now
vacant title (hell, it should be retired along with Michael. He could
win it with a missing arm or leg) is Dominique Wilkins from the

Photo by ‘Sara Gilbert Th Fling-tum Phi
Mears, center, trains with teammates, juniors Sue Deutsch and Kim Herring, before
heading to National competition Nov. 20.

College basketball explored;
Superbowl predictions made

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Just when I thought she could
not possibly run any faster,
sophomore Josephine Schaeffer
once again blasted her competi-
tion out of the water and her fans
out of their seats. »

Schaeffer qualified forthe Di-
vision III National Champion-
ships, ﬁnishing first with a time
of 1 6:46 at lastweekend’s South-
Southeast Regional meet. Sopho-
more Amy Mears qualiﬁed for
national competition as well, fin-
ishing fourth with a quick 18:41.
These two finishes topped out a
day in which four Generals set
personal records, leading Wash-
ington and Lee to a second place
ﬁnish.

Those who have not been fol-
lowing cross country will not re-
alizethat Schaeffer’stimeis, rela-
tively to all other female college
cross country runners, absolutely
phenomenal. Herformerpersonal
best, a school record, was 17:25,
and this is only the second time
she has run below 17:50.

Schaeffer is, as yet,
undefeated at any meet this year,
and a win at Nationals would
make a perfect, All-American,

 

Schaeffer fastest Woman

National Championship year.

, With the best time in the na-
tion days before the champion-
ships, her coaches are predicting
a sure win. Schaeffer, however,
is still recovering from the shock.

“I was very, very surprised,”
said Schaeffer,]who added that
she never imagined running such
a quick time. “I don’t know [how
I ran that fast]—I don’t under-
stand.”

Mears was surprised with her
performance as well, a personal
best of over 40 seconds.

“I deﬁnitely wasn’t expect-
ing it,” she said. “I was excited to
make Nationals.

“[The race] felt really good;
everything just came together.”

The two sophomores head to
Grinnell, Iowa this weekend.
They will race against about 150
of the best runners in Division III
Nov. 20.

Both runners were sorry the
entire team could not qualify; a
team must place ﬁrst in the South-
Southeast region to qualify.

‘‘I wish the whole team could
go,” said Schaeffer. “It is the
greatest experience I have ever
had.”

Mears agreed.

“I wish the whole team could
have gone,” said Mears. “But it’s
still exciting.” —

They were both hesitant to
make predictions (though a coach
in the know predicted an un-
equivocal National Champion-
ship for Schaeffer), but they in-
tended to concentrate on perform-
ing their utmost.

“I just want to run as hard as I
can, and just have a good time,”
said Schaeffer.

Mears said she didn’t want to
predict, but she had some hopes.

“I’d kill to be in the top 25, but
I don’t think that is very prob-
able,” she said.

Neitherwoman had paid much
attention to the times from the
other regions, and will focus on
their own performances.

With Schaefferavirtual shoe-
in for All-American and Mears
rising quickly to a more-than-
respectable second billing (fans
must remember that National
qualiﬁcation. is no easy task),
W&L cross country can only go
up from here; but they do not
have much more roomabove their
heads.

Atlanta Hawks, because, well, he’s just cool like dat. Besides,
Wilkins usually finished in second place anyway during the Jordan
era (although Malone will give a good race).

From football, the most impressive performance of the week was
turned in by the entire Pittsburgh Steelers squad in their rout of the
Buffalo Bills. Kelly and Thurman Thomas were both shut down
throughout the game as the Steelers blasted their way to victory.

The Philadelphia Eagles continued their Randall-less collapse last

weekend, losing to the Miami Dolphins. Don Shula passed Papa Bear
George Halas on the all-time win list for National Football League
coaches as the Dolphins moved into a ﬁrst place tie with the Bills in
the AFC East. However, the Dolphins lost quarterback Scott Mitchell
for a month with a shoulder separation. Now quarterbacking for
Miami will either be Steve DeBerg (no, he hasn’t retired yet) or some
guy you’ve never heard of before.

Parting Shots-

BENGALS WATCH: (0-9) The Cincinnati Bengals continued
their pursuit of that elusive 0-16 season. These guys are the Dallas
Cowboys of losers. The mighty kittens face a deﬁnitive showdown
with the powerful New England Patriots to determine the title (and
the ﬁrst draft pick). _

The Dallas Cowboys continued to be undefeated since the return
of Emmitt Smith, winning their seventh game in a row on Sunday to
remain in first place in the NFC East. Based on the season to date,
here are my predictions for the AFC and NFC championship games:
AFC— Pittsburgh vs. Miami, NFC—— San Francisco vs. Dallas. The
Superbowl will be Dallas vs. Miami.

Why do people call the Dolphins the “fish”? Dolphins are NOT

fish!

Anyway, until next week, enjoy that wild, wacky world of sports!

J OCKSHORTS

Tye, at 150, split his four matches
to ﬁnish fourth.

Their prospects for the up-
coming season look good. “I ex-
pect to see an improvement this
year, especially in the upper
weight classes,” said junior Eric
Shirley. “A lot will depend on
the Lebanon Valley Tournament,
where we will get a better idea of
what our lineup for the weight
classes will be.”

Women’s Swimming

The W&L women’s swim
team kept pace with their male
counterpartsagainstCentre,win-
ning by almost an identical
score-134-59.

 

The Generals atoned for the
loss of multiple-record holder
Claire Dudley by increasing the
team size form eight to 14, in-
cluding four freshmen. Accord-
ing to coach Kiki Jacobs, this
makes the team strongerthan last
yeah

“We have pretty high expec-
tations for the year as long as we
stay healthy and injury free,” said
Jacobs. Also, according to coach
Jacobs the team will be relying
on sophomore Rebekah Prince,
an All-American last year for
another strong season.

In the meet against Centre,
the Generals received standout
performances from a number of
sources.

 

Men's Swimming

The debut of winter sports at
Washington and Lee was a good
one based on the finish of the
men’s swim team at Centre Col-
lege this past week.

The men opened their season
with a 137-61 victory over the
Centre College athletes. Ac-
cording to coach Page Remillard,

“The meet told us where we were V

at..” Despite the convincing tri-
umph Remillard maintained that
the team still had to maintain a
pre-season mentality because of
the down-time before the
General’s next competition.

“We’re pretty upbeat that we
know what we need to do,” said
Remillard.

This Week:

FB—vs. Georgetown at Bermuda 11/20
X-C—at Div. III Nationals Champs 11/20
MBB—Tip-off tourney 11/19-20

WBB—at Eastern Mennonite 11/19 -

NOVEMBER 19, 1993 r(

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
and Georgetown football
teams have met 24 times since
1890, but neither team has
ever had to travel this far. For
the Generals (2-7) and Hoyas
(3-5), the ﬁrst annual Ber-
muda Bowl has arrived.

While Georgetown enters
the game coming offa 19-14
loss to Canisius, W&L ﬂies
in on a winning note. The

University 34-0 last week for
their second win. The victory
margin, their largest in four
years, brought the Generals’
season point total to within
17 of their opponents’ total,
which shows how close the
team has come in several of
their losses.

Saturday, though, was
never in doubt. On the Gener-
als ﬁrst possession, senior
fullback Wilson Moore took
a carry along the near sideline
55 yards for a touchdown.
For the moment, it would be
the longest carry of the year
by a General. 1

Early in the second-quar-
ter, Moore drove across the
goal line for a one-yard TD
run, giving the Generals a 14-
0 lead. It was upped to 16-0
by the defense when junior
Jason Chartrand grabbed
Catholic quarterback Ray
Williams in the end zone for
a safety. That was one of four
W&L sacks on the day, rais-
ing their season total to an
astonishing 29.

The defense also got inter-
ceptions from sophomore
Tom Bradbury and junior Jon
Wagner, who added a fumble
recovery to his numbers.
Catholic was held to just 153
yards of total offense in their
third straight shut-out.

W&L freshman quarter-
back Brooks Fischer (10-for-
23, 116 yards) had a strong
second-half, connecting with
both sophomore Scott
Malmberg and Moore on
touchdown passes. The TD
to Moore came on a fourth-
and-one play from the Catho-
lic 11-yard line, providing
W&L with an insurmount-
able 28-0 lead.

Sophomore Brian
Manternach capped off all

, scoring late in the fourth-quar-
ter with a 65-yard run that
mirrored Moore’s carry, ex-
cept it was 10 yards longer.

For Moore, it was quite a
home-ﬁeld ﬁnale. The senior
rushed for 115 yards on just
15 carries, caught twopasses,
and scored three touchdowns.

“It was a real nice way to
ﬁnish up,” said Moore, who
timed his outstanding day to
coincide with his father’s
birthday.

Moore, a Generals’ tri-
captain, is one player head
coach Gary Fallon thinks the
team will sorely miss.

“He has added so much to
our offense,” said Fallon.
“Not only as a runner, but as
an outstanding blocker and
pass receiver.”

With one game to go,
Moore is the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference’sfourth-
Ieading receiver.

Since W&L hosted
Georgetown last season, the
Generals were due to meet
the Hoyas on the road this
year. But Bermuda?

According to Washington
and Lee athletic director Mike
Walsh, ofﬁcials from the Ber-
muda Board of Tourism ap-
proached W&L last yearwith
the idea of playing a Division
III college football game on

W&L football
blitzes Catholic

Generals romped Catholic .

I
l
3.;
.
I.

the island. Washington and
Lee brought Georgetown into
the mix,soW&Lwillbemeet-
ing the school that was their
very ﬁrst varsity football op-
ponent in 1890, when tlf
Hoyas won 11-6.

Seven Generals will be
playing their ﬁnal college
football game Saturday under
the Caribbean sun instead of
on Wilson Field.

“I didn’t believe coa h
when he told us,” said seni
defensive back John
Schindler.

Football, though, is not the
only event on tap for this his-
toric weekend. Players from
both teams will participate in
a debate on the issue of pr‘-
fessionals in the Olympics.
W&Lseniors Tom Mason and
Bob Turner will be studying
up on the matter.

“The people of Bermuda
wanted to do something
unique toemphasize [the fﬁt .
that] two schools with aca- 1
demic reputations will be ‘
competin g [athletically],” said
Walsh.

Walsh seesthis kind of em-
phasis as a strong beneﬁt of
the weekend. .

“[The trip] is a nice reward
for the players and the entire
football program,” he said.
“But the purpose was to get
involved in an athletic event
that involved more than just
the athletic competition.” .

Walsh says a large W&L
contingent of families and
alumni is expected at Ber-
muda. The game is to be
played in Bermuda National
Stadium, a soccer ﬁeld that
has been transformed fort e
football game. In fact, a p§r-
table scoreboard was shipped
down by Washington and Lee
weeks ago. _

The Bermuda media have
hyped the contest all season,
updating the two team ’
progress and even airing ga e
highlights on television. On
the mainland, the game has
gotten mention on CNN and
in Tuesday’s edition of the
New York Times. The game
will be the ﬁrst American-
style football game playetﬂn
Bermuda.

Once the game kicks off,
there is no doubt the location
will matter little to the two
teams. W&L holds a slim 13-
11 lead in the all-time series
between the two. Last yeor,
Georgetown upset the Gener-
als in Lexington 27-19. The
previous year, W&Lwent into
Washington, D.C. and
knocked off the Hoyas 27-12
for the Generals’ lone win of
the season. That game mgre
than likely kept the Hoyas out
of their conference playoffs.

Freshman quarterback Bill
Ring and seniorrunnin g backs
Paul Uppole and Rob Sgarlata
will try to end a Georgetown
two—game losing streak. .

For the Generals, a win
would well ease the frustra-
tions they have suffered in
losing ﬁve times by eight
points or fewer.

“We’re all frustrated,” said
Schindler. “But we know hgw
close we were a few times.”

For Moore, the calls and
breaks that have gone the other
way have marred the season,
yet it was certainly not a com-
plete loss.

“It was a building year for
us, with just seven seniorsQ>n
the team,” he said. “It was a
good year, though, in that we
all had a real good time.”

Undoubtedly, this week-
end will add on to that. As
coach Fallon says, “There
aren’t many colleges arotmd
that wouldn’t want to be in
our shoes.”

 

 

