   
    
   
 
 

0
pa‘ 1-V5‘

g-

. Today: Cloudy, 40% chance of
.  showers or T—storms. High-75.
_—_: Tonight: Low 65, cloudy, 30%

._  gshance of showers '
 Saturday: 30% chance of

‘a morning showers. High near 80
Sunday: Partly sunny, high-70

eekend Weather

New faculty give
impressions of W&L

  

Water polo debuts at
W&L Fall Classic

0

(D

 

tn: ﬂing-tum lﬁhi  

: w',.-mt: LlF".“£\'3\‘V

‘l\  ‘M4

 U-M g.izI.r;«;

F

.-
«

  

VOLUME 93, NO. 02

  

~ 9

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Frats kick off Rush

By NANCY PAVLOIVIC
Phi Managing Editor

.Men’s Rush officially begins Monday
Night with the first of four open houses.

But Rush isn’t what it used to be.

Until this year, freshman men and upper-
classmen were under closed contact rules
until the second week of school when Rush
officially began. Under closed contact, fresh-
m and upperclassmen cannot talk to each
other. But this year, freshmen and upper-
classmen were able to hang out and party
together under open and casual contact rules.

“We wanted them to experience the typi-
cal W&L party and let the freshmen meet the
upperclassmen,” Interfraternity Vice Presi-
dent Ryan Donaldson said.

e new contact rules were designed to
make things easier for both the upperclass-
men and the freshmen men. Additionally, the
new Rush rules allow freshmen to get to
know W&L before they begin looking for a

fraternity.

“It takes a lot of pressure off the fresh-
men,” senior Phi Gamma Delta Doug
Kaufman said. “Now we’re not jamming
Rush down their throats as soon as they get
here.”

Although the IFC has attempted to clarify
the new rules, Donaldson said there has been
some confusion as to how the new system
works. Donaldson said “people are calling
to make sure they are following the rules. In
the past the rules were there, but they were set
up knowing they’d be broken.”

Junior Rush Counselor Adam Plotkin said
things are not as mixed up as the IFC con-
tends.

“All the confusion they[the IFC] make
out isn’t right,” Plotkin said. “Everybody
knows what they need to do.”

Despite the changes in the contact rules
and the initial confusion, this year’s Rush is
going smoothly.

“Generally the new system is working out

really well,” Donaldson said. “It’s not per-
fect but it’s a start.”

Monday night, the freshmen going
through Rush will be divided into 16 groups.
Rush Counselors will lead the groups to the
various Open Houses. Rush Counselors are
new to Rush this year. Similar to the sorority
Rho Chis, Rush Counselors are “someone
freshmen could talk to who was impartial
and could answer any questions they had
about Rush,” Donaldson said.

There are 16 rush counselors assigned to
the different men’s halls. Most counselors
have one hall of freshmen men, but some
counselors are in charge of two.

Junior Adam Plotkin, a Rush Counselor,
feels the counselors are a good feature of the
new Rush system.

“The Rush Counselor is there to go over
the different contact rules and explain how
the parties are supposed to be,” Plotkin said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 17, 1993

Phi Delts,

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

A street brawl between Phi
Delta Theta members and Vir-
ginia Military Institute cadets
early Sunday morning resulted
in at least four injuries and two
arrests.

The fight started in the base-
ment of the Phi Delt fraternity
house and later spilled out into
the street, filling the intersection
of Jefferson and Henry Streets
with fighters and onlookers.

“It reminded me of a South
African race riot,” said Rich
Talmadge, a Sigma Nu member
who saw the fight that occurred
at about 1:30 a.m. Sunday. “There
were about 60 people in the street,
some fighting, some trying to
break it up. Some people even
tried to grab our lawn chairs to
use in the fight.”

Phi Delt President William
Guice said the fight broke out
when a Phi Delt asked some ca-
dets to leave.

“A young lady told me that

some of the Veemies were grab-
bing her. I don’t know if they
were asked to leave in response
to that or if it was something
else,” said Guice. “They went
out the side door where there is a
narrow stairwell. A Veemie at
the top of the stairwell started
kicking, and fights broke out.”
Guice said two cadets had
actually been invited to the party,
but they arrived with other unin-
vited cadets who asked to be let

hvsee BRAWL, pg. 8

Wilson to retire

File Photo
A fraternity celebrates the genesis of a new pledge class during last year’s tear night. The lnterfraternity Coun-
cil revamped Rush last year to avoid scenes like the one above. Tear Night will be held on October 1 this year.

h-vsee Flush. pg. 8

EC sets stage for White Book

review,

budget hearings

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

_ After a dozen years of service at Washington
and Lee, President John D. Wilson will retire in
June of 1995.

Wilson announced his retirement at a faculty
meeting Monday. Wilson said he announced his

. retirement. early because of the many rumors that

had been circulating around campus. When he
heard a rumor claiming he was leaving as early as
Christmas this year and received a letter from
Oxford questioning him about his retirement, Wil-
son said he knew it was time to make a formal
announcement.

Wilson said he chose to end his tenure in June of
1995 because capital campaign, W&L’s fund-rais-
ing campaign to raise $127 Million, will be com-
pleted.

“l’m committed to the Board [of Trustees] and
the University to see capital campaign to a success-
ful completion,” Wilson said.

Wilson said he has no plans to take a teaching or
administrative position at another university. He
said his primary reason for retiring is because he
believes it is time to move on.

“I will be 64 that summer,” Wilson said. “That
used to be regular retiring age,”

“I think it important new and fresh minds take
over,” Wilson added. “Twelve plus years, that’s a
very long time for a university president.”

Wilson said he and his wife, Anne, have not
decided where they plan to live after he retires.
They do intend to leave Lexington, but will stay in
Virginia.

Dean of the College John Elrod said he does not
want to dwell Wilson’s retirement and he hopes
other people will not focus on it either.

“I don’t look forward to his retirement in June of
1995,” Elrod said. “His presidency has been one of
extraordinary leadership.”

“I get uncomfortable talking about the next 20

after campai

 

Wilson

most important months of his presidency, Elrod
said. The capital campaign is an essential part of the
university’s future, he said.

Elrod said although it is difficult to know how
people will perceive history, he believes Wiison’s
accomplishments will make him an important part
of W&L history.

“I think he will stand high as one of the top
presidents of this university,” Elrod said.

Elrod said he thinks co-education will be con-
sidered Wilson’s greatest achievement as presi-
dent of W&L. But Wilson likes to acknowledge his
lesser known accomplishments. He said paving the
parking lots near Liberty Hall Ruins was an impor-
tant accomplishment because it made it possible to
watch a baseball game without all the dust from the
parking lots ﬂying around.

Wilson does admit he is glad the controversial
Watson Pavilion has been completed. Wilson said

 

By THoMAs Hesros
Phi News Editor

The Executive Committee
announced plans to conduct in-
terviews for positions on a com-
mbtee that will review Washing-
ton and Lee’s Honor System.

Interviews for the White Book
Review Committee will take
place on September 28, starting
at 7 p.m. Applications for inter-
views will be available next week
inQCarol Calkins’ office in the
University Center. According
to the White Book, appointments
must be made by October 1.

Executive Committee Presi-

    
 

D

dent Bob Tompkins said the EC
is looking for open-minded stu-
dents who are good organizers
and want to be “a conduit for
those who do have concerns for
the (honor) system” to serve on
the committee.

No member of the EC is per-
mitted to sit on the nine-member
committee, which will be com-
posed of eight members-at-large
and a chairperson. Any changes
to the White Book suggested by
the committee will be voted on in
a March meeting of the EC,
Tompkins said.

‘‘I think, whether they present
change possibilities or not, it will

be good for the school,” said
Tompkins.

Tompkins said the ideal White
Book Review Committee mem-
berwill consider concerns of both
the students and the faculty.

‘‘I think [the faculty’s] im-
pressions of the system are im-
portant,” he said.

According to Tompkins and
the White Book, the honor sys-
tem will be reviewed every three
years. Any proposed revisions
to the White Book must be sub-
mitted by the committee before
March 1. However, the EC will
also consider revisions submit-
ted “on proper motion with an

accompanyingpetition signed by
at least 50 current students.”

Also discussedattheEC’s first
regular meeting of the 1993-94
school year were the annual bud-
get hearings, which will take
place Monday, September 20
through Wednesday, September
22, starting at 6:30 p.m. Clubs
will submit their individual bud-
gets for approval on these dates.

Also discussed at the meeting
was replenishingthe Publications
Board reserve, which was dimin-
ished by $5,000 in a financial
mix-up. According toTompkins,
a proposal will be formulated at
the next EC meeting.

months,” Elrod added.

Wilson’s last 20 months will be some of the

bsee WILSON, pg. 8

Offices relocate

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

Three campus offices have
relocated to the new University
Services Building in the El Ro-
deo restaurant.

University Services, the Uni-
versity Print Shop and the Uni-
versity Mail Room have been
moved to El Rodeo, which is

W&L students

-,~ tudents used .e able 0 leave their bicycle nattended.

Thieves prey on

  
   
   
    
    
   
   
    
   
   
   
     
    
 

    
   
 

  

By MlCHELl.E BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Lock your doors, cars and bikes.

Washington and Lee students have been
victimized by a string of burglaries since the
beginning of September— losing bikes, ste-
reo equipment, and compact discs.

Someone even stole a guitar, amplifier
and effects pedals from freshman Thomas
Leggett.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce M. Beard
said since the beginning ofSeptember W&L
students reported nine thefts. Almost all the
thefts involved unlocked apartments, bikes
and cars.

Leggett said that because of a miscom-
munication with his roommate, he left his
guitar and equipment outside his Davis

dormitory bedroom window for several hours.
Someone stole it around midnight.

Although W&L Security found Leggett’s
equipment behind the old Sigma Chi house,
Leggett says he will be more cautious in the
future.

‘‘I’m gonna keep my door locked now,”
said Leggett,“and I won’t leave my guitar
outside.” .

Beard said with the exception of two
burglaries on Henry Street, the thefts were
not committed by the same person. Investi-
gations are continuing, but police have a
suspect in only one case, said Beard.

“Please encourage students to lock their
apartments and cars and to padlock their
bikes,” Beard said. “If we could do that we
could curb the problem.”

officially known as the Univer-
sity Services Building, but some
students have dubbed “Taco
Hall,” according to Suzanne
Wade of the University Print
Shop.

“It went pretty smooth,” said
Wade, speaking of the summer-
time move. She said the move
required the relocation of several
tons of equipment.

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

A recent rise in the number
of DUI’s among W&L stu-
dents has both Lexington Po-
lice and Campus Security at a
loss for an explanation.

According to Dean
Howisoljmhere have been 6
DUI’s in the past two weeks,
five involving undergrads and
one involving a law student.
Last year, there was a total of
15 DUI’s for the whole year,
Howison said.

The only explanation that
Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard could offer was that

Six get DUI’s

’ drivers.”

people are not aware.”

The absence of the print shop
will allow the journalism school
to expand onto the first floor of
Reid Hall. The News Office is
one of the offices slated to move
to the old Sigma Chi house on
Lee Avenue, which will serve as
office space for the university.

“That will allow the

I->See EL RODEO, pg. 8

“for a year the number of
DUI’s has goneup.” But, he
added, W & L students gener-
ally “haven’t been the prob-
lem.”

Campus security also has
no explanation. “These five
got caught,” said Mike
Young, head of campus secu-
rity. ‘‘I’m really surprised
and sorry that we have drunk ”

Howison said he is upset
by the high number of DUI’s,
but he does not know why
there would be an increase. .

“I can’: explain it,”
Howison said. “It’s not that

PAGE 2

    

(Titre ilting-tum lﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Dear Colonel:

We’re sorry to hear that you do not believe the fight
between some of your cadets and some of our students
was a big deal. But we happen to think the fight was a big
deal. If the fight had just involved one student from each
college it would have been a big deal.

But, this fight involved a lot of people. Several people
had to be taken to the hospital. A police officer found it
necessary to mace a cadet to subdue him. That same cadet
was pulled away by two other cadets after he had been
arrested. Apparently his sense of honor has not led him to
come forward, since you told one of our reporters that you
knew nothing about it. ’

It‘s true, compared to the Los Angeles riots the fight
was not a big deal. But sir, this is Lexington. You told one
of our reporters the incident was a “hiccup.” That’s an
awfully light way to approach the incident.

Yes, we are making a big deal about the incident over
here. We had hoped you would too. Less than one year
after Jason and Martin Dunn founded the Preston Society
in an effort to improve relations between VMI and W&L,
the biggest fight in several years occurred.

We’re sorry that you think that W&L reporters’ efforts
to get the true story from you are bothersome and overkill.
But we happen to think that the students responsible for
this fight, whether they are Cadets or W&L students,
should be held accountable for their actions. It‘s a simple
philosophy, really. You see, the job of any good newspa-
per is to hold people accountable for their actions.

So, we’re trying to do our job. All we want is for VMI
and W&L to do their jobs by investigating the fight as a
serious incident, as opposed to a hiccup. Simple isn’t it.

But, Colonel Bissell, we have to say we are very
disappointed by your reaction to the incident. We were
under the impression that you were the type of man who
belived in holding your cadets accountable for their
actions.

Don‘t misunderstand us, W&L students were not the
merely innocent victims in the incident. We do not want
to pin the blame of the fight solely on the cadets. We just
want both W&L and VMI to look into the incident as they
would any important event. The reason why we are
picking on you, sir, is because you want to blow the whole
thing off. Dean of Students David Howison happens to
think the fight was a serious incident. We trust he will
make sure a proper investigation is done. If you had said
the incident was serious we would have believed that you
would look into the incident properly as well.

But, you have given us no reason to believethat,you
will look into the incident at all. ’ .4 ~ 

D.U.I. after all..

After all the commercials and admonishments, you’d
think people would listen.

After all the publicity and news coverage, you’d think
people would get the picture.

After all the tragedy that has pained this campus, you’d
think people would know better.

After what happened to Ahsley Scarborough four
years ago, you’d think people wouldn’t dare.

Blake Comer is in jail for his second drunk driving
offense. The first time he struck and killed Ashley
Scarborough.

But even after all that, six W&L students were arrested
for driving under the inﬂuence of alcohol last weekend.
Six last weekend, when there were only fifteen all last
yean

What can we possibly say that hasn’t already been
said?Drinking and driving don’t mix. Drinking and driv-
ing is not only dangerous, it’s against the law. Drinking
and driving kills.

How much clearer can we make it?

Drinking and driving could kill you.

Quote of the week

I didn’t like him when he was alive, so I figured I’d
celebrate him when he was dead and buy a stamp.

—A Lexington townsperson talking about Elvis stamps

v~1\

.vv1._v¢—-¢-,-vv:v-< .~.. .
uq.n.o-v www v ~.-yvw v-ir v

Ellie iﬂtng-tum lﬂlii

Executive liditor . . . 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Features liditoi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David Wilmington

Photography liditor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allan Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sally Obermueller

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum l’hi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate school year at Washington and
Lee University. l,e‘<iugton. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising

and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and

business manager‘, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Tuesday to appear in that week‘s edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum

Phi or its staff. '1 his newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

The Ring-tum Phi, September

 

Q
/ ,J/
"“’ 0
O
O
0

Clinton health plan not a cure-all  

I’ve lost count of how many times I have heard
friends lament the low starting salaries they will face
after graduation. While, on average, our generation
goes to school longer than our parents’, we now doubt
that we will even be able to reach their level of

afﬂuence.

That fear was fanned again and again during the

lastpresidentialcampaign.
Bill Clinton labeled the
current economic recov-

ery a “low-wage recov-
ery.” While some new jobs
are being created, most do
not pay very much. They
are not the sort of jobs on
which one could support a
family. We should take a

 

 

RYAN
DENNARD
’94

moment to ponder this be-
fore we rush to embrace
Clinton’s health care re-
form proposals.

There does seem to be a consensus across partisan
and ideological lines that something must be done to
address the ills of our health care system. The com-
mon charge is that we spend more on health care than
any other industrialized nation and still leave huge
numbers of people without care of any kind.

I do not want to refute these claims, which are
fairly persuasive on their face. Nor, for the time being,
do Iwant to question the way Clinton proposes to deal
with the situation. I do, however, want to make clear
some of the bad that is sure to come, with the good.

, , You can?t get something for nothing and extending

».health insurance to cover those who are currently
., ,uninsured will require further sacriﬁce on the part of
the American taxpayer. Clinton himself publicly
stressed this fact before he moved health care to the
top of his legislative agenda. And, while new taxes
are no small matter and should be weighed carefully,
we should be aware that there will be other, perhaps
more important costs that we will not immediately

S86.

One major aspect of the Clinton plan will be to
require employers to help pay for insurance for all of
their workers. In this way, the administration hopes

has made no net gain.

to accomplish extensive reform while maintaining
our current structure for the provision of health insur-
ance. This approach has its merits, but it is also sure
to exacerbate the low-wage problem that Clinton
harped on during the campaign.

That is because requiring employers to pay for
workers’ health insurance forces a direct trade-off. In
rather simplified terms, the
money spent on health insur-
ance will be deducted from the
salary a given worker would
have been paid.

For instance, suppose the
prevailing wage rate for pro-
duce truck loaders is about
$25,000 a year. If the produce
company is now required to
provide $1,000 in health insur-
ance for each worker, the
amount they are able to pay in the form of salary will
go down, presumably to $24,000. Thus, while the
worker has acquired $1,000 in health insurance, he

rial earlier this year. Citing
environmental regulation
and legal expenses along-
side health care, he showed
that non-wage spending
has skyrocketed in the last

may not be much bigger than last year, your company
probably spent more to preserve the environment,
wage legal battles, and provide health insurance.
Now Clinton proposes to make the third category,
which has risen to absorb a whopping 12.2% of the
Gross Domestic Product (1990), even bigger.

It is commonly thought that when they are required
to pay for health insurance, businesses will absorb the

Robert Samuelson ex-
plained this phenomena in
a Washington Post edito-

additional costs, but that simply will not happyn.
Especially in the midst of this modest economic
recovery, there are few firms making sufficient
profits to bear this additional expense. One way or
another, the costs will be passed on. While the ,
worker who gets health insurance for the first time
probably won’t have to take a pay cut, he may not
get that raise next year, and in the end the resuﬁis
the same. ‘

So, in thinking about health care, we should
balance the potential benefits against the costs. If
there is, as Samuelson suggests, a fairly direct
trade-off between companies’ wage and non-wage
spending, we will essentially be mandating that
workers’ wages be spent in a certain way, and we
should consider this carefully.

Might there not be some instances in which it
would be a rational decision for a worker to forgo
health insurance, and should we second-guess that
decision? What of the family that feels it cannot
afford health insurance? How would they bear the
declining wages that are sure to accompany guar?i-
teed insurance? If that family now has heath

insurance, but can
no longer afford
things it counted as

While new taxes are no
small matter and should be
weighed carefully, we should be
aware that there will be other,

necessities, things it
considered higher
priorities than health
insurance, wlfat
have we really given
them? ‘
Perhaps health
care for all Ameri-
cans is something

1 twentyyears,absorbingap- perhaps more important costs
P’°"i"‘a““Y "“'f°f““" P’°' that we will not immediately see
ductivity gains during that '
period.

So while your paycheck

we do want to guar-
antee. But We

should be aware that except new taxes and new
transfer payments, we are not providing the
uninsured with anything. We are simply forcing
them to spend what would otherwise be their money
on something we believe they need.

And next time we ponder our paycheck and
wonder where the money has gone, we shouldift
have to ask.

Minority students diversify W&L

Take a close look at this year’s
freshman class and you will notice that
the class of 1997 is geographically
diverse and has wide ranging talents,
but yet is almost entirely white.

This year, only six black students
enrolled at Washington and Lee, the
lowest enrollment of black students
since 1986. Such a low minority en-

such things as cultural orientation and
political outlook. This leads to the un-
fortunate and erroneous perception
that the black community is mono-
lithic. A larger contingent of black
students would dispel this myth and
demonstrate that blacks can be politi-
cally liberal or conservative, culturally
oriented or more assimilated.

 

rollment might Enroll-
seeminevitablefor ing more
aschoolthatsome- black stu-
times appears to d e n t s
pride itself as the w o u l d
shrine of the Con- ANDREW ease their
federacy. But the SCHNEIDER a d j u s t -
class of 1991, ,94 ment and
whichhad17black assimila-
students, is evi— tion pro-
dence that Wash- cess. Un-
ington and Lee can doubtedly,

recruit and attract more minority stu-
dents.

The villification of diversity has
coincided with the decline of black
enrollment at W&L. Mention the word
on campus and many students instantly
think you are pushing a “liberal agenda”
or striving towards political correct-
ness. Diversity has become so politi-
cized and distorted that people tend to
forget its true purpose and benefits.

Interaction with people from differ-
ent racial and ethnic groups is essential
‘to reducing the social and cultural dis-
tance between the diverse groups in
our society. Without such interaction
our cities will continue to exist as
balkanized war zones, and the Ameri-
can “melting pot” will only be a myth.
In addition, our global economy now
requires interaction between diverse
groups of people, so those who have
experience in dealing with minorities
are at a distinct advantage. One of the
most important elements of a college
education is the education received
through one’s peers. If your peers are
all white then you are losing out on a
more interesting and intellectually
stimulating college experience.

Having as few black students as we
do at W&L can lead to false stereo-
types and myths about blacks as a
whole. The fewer blacks that are en-
rolled, the greater the chance that they
will not be different from each other in

many black students will have trouble
adjusting to an environment in which
they make up only a handful of the total
school population. Naturally, many of
them will stick together as a group and
will find it more difficult to interact
with others. Many white students at
W&L see the black students’ “self seg-
regation” as being anti-social or sepa-
ratist. These same white students might
be amazed at how uncomfortable they
would feel if they were among only a
few Caucasians attending an all black
institution like Howard University.
They would most likely band together
too.

Some students may jump to the false
conclusion that enrolling more minor-
ity students means affirmative action.
The truth of the matter is that affirma-
tive action is not necessary to increase
the number of black students here. For
starters, a more vigorous recruitment
might help. The number of black ap-
plicants this year was the lowest since
1985. The law school makes up only
one-fifth of the number of students at
W&L, yet it manages to attract more
than twice as many black applicants as
the college.

What does W&L Law do that the
undergraduate side doesn’t do? For
one, they hire a recent black graduate
each year for a period of three months
during the fall, to act as an admissions
representative. This admissions repre-

sentative travels the country visiting
colleges and universities to help attract
and recruit black students. Though the
undergraduate side has a black assis-
tant director of admissions who works
on minority recruitment, the admis-
sions representatives at the law school
can actually speak from first hand ex-
perience about what it’s like to be black
at W&L.

In addition, the Black Law Student
Association is very helpful in attract-
ing minority students to the law school.
Each year BLSA obtains a list of ac-
cepted minority students which they
use to contact each student and to per-
sonally encourage them to come to
W&L Law. While the Minority Stu-
dent Association on the undergraduate
side helps out
with prospec-
tive minority

 

Q

cally correct. Coincidentally, black stu-
dent enrollment has been lower since
they discontinued it. The minority
students weekend at the law school is
an effective admissions tool because it
wins over prospective black students
by making it clear to them that they ate
wanted at W&L. In addition, the spe-
cial weekend for minorities is optional,

so black students. who wish to visit
W&L at another time may do so.

Not only do students benefit from
diversity, but the college admissions
office has a stake in it too. The pop‘-
lation of college age blacks is growing
at a faster rate than college age whites.
Therefore, W&L needs to increase its
commitment to attracting black stu-
dents in order to maintain its competi-

tive edge in the
college market
A few stu-

students dur- . dents here have
ing the week— Many white Students the misguided
eI}d_s thgt at W&L see the black perception thhat
visit, 9 5; increasing t e
seems to do S_tud’ent 5 _Self segrega: number of black
more. tion ’ as being anti-social students would

W&L law , or Separatist These somehow meat?
also does bet- . ' sacrificing the
terthantheun- Same Whlte Students academic stan-
dergraduate  be amazed at how dards‘ of W&L.
side on the per- This is just a re-

centages of
blacks who
enroll after be-
ing accepted.
W&L Law
School had 16
black students
who enrolled
this year
which was
64% of those

uncomfortable they
would feel if they were
among only a few Cau-
casians attending an all
black institution like
Howard University.

flection of the
pervasive racial
stereotypes ii?

our society.
Studies have
shown that

people of color,
just by virtue of
who they are, are
automatically as4
sumed to be less

who were accepted. Only 35% of those
black students accepted by undergradu-
ate admissions decided to enroll.
W&L Law School helps to woo the
black perspectives by hosting them for
a minority students weekend during
the spring. Eighty percent of black
students who attended this weekend
ended up enrolling at the law school.
The undergraduate side used to do the
same for their accepted applicants but
did away with the practice when it
came under attack for being too politi-

competent than white males at any
task. Even more qualified blacks are
often perceived as being less qualified.
Only by increasing the diversity on our
campus will we end such stereotyping.
The responsibility for the way the;
admissions process is conducted lies
with the trustees. The trustees make
the policy which the admissions office
merely carries out. Hopefully the trust-
ees will realize the importance of di-
versity and not be distracted by silly

distortions like political correctness. .,

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

U

OPINION

Credit cards threaten our world

.5

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

Let us now sit down in our favorite
arair and address the greatest threat
facing Washington and Lee students
today: credit card companies. They in-
nocently call you on the phone, waving
$500 credit lines in your face, knowing
that you’ll bite, line, hook, and sinker,
and sell yourself into the world of the
<§edit-card-enslaved.

It’s so easy! Before long, you are
calling 1—800—FLOWERS and Judy,
the Time—Life Operator, or ordering
Elvis commerative plates from the
Franklin Mint, or purchasing small gifts
for Tom Hespos, because all you need
'3 a little piece of plastic and no actual
money leaves your wallet. And it’s so
easy!

Not that I have gone overboard.
Quite frankly, I enjoy the convenience
of receiving a bill of all my expendi-
tures at the end of the month. OK, l’ll

honest: I enjoy receiving two bills of
expenditures. You must understand, I
am a repeat offender; I have swallowed
the Visa AND Mastercard bait.

A voice deep inside of me has al-
ways wanted to answer a sales clerk
who has said “Visa or Mastercard?” by

ying, “Your choice.” This thrill, how-
ever, quickly disappears whenever the
mail comes, and I begin to question the

wisdom of that $144.51 impulse pur-
chase at “South of the Border.”

I must now get up from my comfort-
able chair and congratulate whatever
force decided to offer college students
credit cards; it is a genius. I say “it”
because I have a new conspiracy theory
that credit cards are the secret weapons
of an evil and sadistic reptilian alien
race, destined to saddle this generation
with unmanageable debt and thus con-

 

Los Angeles. What a woman! My
theory includes the idea that the credit
card companies are now using Diana as
an incentive for college students to
make monthly payments: _
Visa: Your minimum payment this
month is $25. Are you going to pay it?
W&L student: Well, um, I have to
pay the Lexington car tax this month...
Visa: Well perhaps our friend Diana
can persuade you to change your mind.

trol it as part W & L
ofitseviland student:
sadistic plan NO! NO!
to take over PLEASE
ourgreatfree NO! Here,
nation, and here’s the
harvest its $25. In fact,
people for takethis$400
food, and Iwasgoingto
drain our use for my
oceans of W&L Greek
water to sat- Tax! Take my
isfy their evil watch...

and sadistic - Visa: Too
leader, and late.

to guarantee their evil and sadistic desert
home planet’s survival. This theory is,
basically, the plot from V.‘ The Final
Victory.

Any guys out there will agree with
me when I say that the one redeeming
feature of this mid-1980’s sci-fi series
was, without a doubt, actress J ane
Badler, who portrayed the character of
“Diana,” the kind, soft-spoken, gentle
alien commander who bit the heads off
of live rats, small dogs, and residents of

Diana: (Crunch... GULP).
OK, OK, I realize that I may be

being a little unfair in my theory, but I"

am in too deep to care. But, in my
defense, I dare you to give Mastercard
a call and ask their spokesalien if it
isn’t true that .051780%DLY is some
kind of tracking code to make it so
YOU CAN NEVER ESCAPE FROM
THEM. And while you’re at it, ask
them about the little microphones they
have implanted in my teeth so they can

listen in on my conversations.

My credit card conspiracy theory is
not limited just to Visa and Mastercard,
but it even includes ATM cards. Think
about it: you go to a bank machine, type
in your personal identiﬁcation number
and then you withdraw your book
money for the semester and use it for a
weekend of partying. By doing this,
you immediately tip off the aliens as to
your location and then they can sit
around theirTV screens with their alien
buddies and watch you (via the ATM
videocameras — see how this is all tying
in?). The way that students handle their
ﬁnances around here probably provides
many entertainment opportunities for
the aliens:

W&L student: (types in number)

Joe Alien: Hey, Bob, look: this kid
is withdrawing more money. Hey, l’ll
bet you five bucks that he uses it to pay
his Centel bill for the past three months.

Bob Alien: No way, Joe; he’s going
to use it buy his Chemistry books and
pay his tutor to understand them for
him. You’re on.

W&L student: (withdraws money
and turns around) DIANA! Oh my
God! NO! PLEASE NO!

Diana: (Crunch... GULP) (She
takes the money).

JoeAlien: That was great! Let’ssee
it on instant replay...

Well, consider yourself warned. l’ll
be running along now. I’ve heard ru-
mors a new Lee-Hi credit card being
offered, and I am off to check it out.

LETTERS

Dean of students issues student judicial report

To the student body:

C‘ he Honor System

The Executive Committee of the Student Body is
entrusted by the Washington and Lee Board of Trust-
ees for the administration of The Honor System. In
1992-93, the Executive Committee conducted 15
investigations of alleged violations of
The Honor System, held 10 closed hearings, and
found two students guilty of honor violations. Both

students withdrew from the university. There were

no open trials.

Executive Committee President 19.93-.9..4 

Robert K: Tompkins .’94L

Student Conduct Committee
The Student Conduct Committee was created by
the University faculty to exercise its responsibility to
control student conduct. A 13—member body, SCC
comprises the elected president and vice president of
each undergraduate class as well as the president from
each law school class. The SCC chair is elected from
the student body.
The SCC investigates and acts upon complaints of
glleged student misconduct except for violations of
The Honor System or cases which fall under the
jurisdiction of the Student-Faculty Hearing Board.
Its jurisdiction extends to all conduct in Lexington
and Rockbridge County, including nearby colleges,
and conduct while engaged in any University-related
activity. The SCC is empowered to assess various
Qenalties, ranging from a reprimand to dismissal from
the University.
In 1992-93, the SCC reviewed 18 cases, one case
was dropped for lack of evidence. Of the 17 cases
heard, 16 involved men and one case involved a
woman student. Misconduct included property dam-
age, alcohol offenses in residence halls, physical
Qssault,-disorderly conduct, public urination, tres-
passing, defacing a poster, and marijuana use in a
residence hall. Ten of the cases involved alcohol.
Penalties included dismissal from the University (the
student had been suspended for a prior violation of
University standards), community service, letter of
apology, and a monetary fine, in addition to conduct
probation for all of the individuals found in violation
of University standards.

SCC Chairman for 1993-94 — Rajeev K.
Aggarwal ’94L

The Student-Faculty Hearing Board

The Student-Faculty Hearing Board is authorized
to hear and adjudicate allegations of sexual miscon-
duct involving Washington and Lee students. The
SFHB consists of four students appointed by the
Executive Committee and four faculty appointed by
the Dean of the College. Two student alternates and
two faculty alternates are also appointed.

‘ «Sexual misconduct is defined asinappropriate
physical conduct or threat ;of :1 sexual nature. .Ex--,

amples include: "
' ' Unwanted sexual conduct

Forced sexual contact

Physical assault with sexual intent

Sexual intercourse without consent ~ by means
of force, threat, intimidation or victim incapacity

Use of a position of authority in any University
course, program, activity or organization in an at-
tempt to obtain sexual favors

The university official (Mediator) responsible for
the initial handling of alleged sexual misconduct is
Anece F. McCloud, Associate Dean of Students for
Minority and International Student Affairs.

In 1992-93, the SFHB conducted one hearing on a
charge of sexual intercourse without consent against
a Washington and Lee student. The SFHB found “no
clear and convincing evidence that the accused was
guilty of sexual misconduct;” Two complaints of
unwanted sexual contact were reported to the Media-
tor but no formal action was requested by the com-
plainants.

SFHB Chairperson for 1993-94 — Cecile West-
Settle, Associate Professor of Romance Languages

Mediation

From the university “Statement on Personal Con-
duct”

At Washington and Lee, we expect an atmosphere
of civility and mutual respect to prevail. Instances of
uncivil behavior involving students are most effec-
tively dealt with in personal and informal ways, not
by formal and judicial procedures. Therefore, mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee community who
believe themselves to have been objects of such

interviews and photos
by Joe Framptom

TALKBACK

 

behavior should seek reconciliation by personal con-
sultation with friends, faculty, or others who may
intervene in the dispute. Instances of uncivil behavior
involving students may be reported to the Dean of
Students who will take appropriate action by resolv-
ing the matter, referring the matter to the Mediator or,
in appropriate cases, to the Student Conduct Commit-
tee. ,

In 1992-93, David Howison and Anece McCloud
mediated 17 cases of alleged uncivil behavior. Five of
the cases fell into the category of sexual harassment,
three were racial in content, four involved verbal

. abuse between a male and female student, two cases

involved defacing ‘property, two cases involved of-.
fensive telephone calls, and one case involved a
threatening letter. Actions taken included apologies,
reprimands, counseling and administrative referral.
In addition to the 17 mediation cases, there were
two cases that culminated in formal judicial action. In
one case of harassment and ungentlemanly—like con-
duct, a student was referred to the SCC and dismissed
from the University. In the other case, a complaint
was filed against a fraternity for an offensive theme
party. The case was referred to the IFC Judicial
Board. The IFC required a letter of apology and an
educational program funded by the fraternity.

Board of Appeals

The Board of Appeals, which consists of the Dean
of Students, President of the Executive Committee,
and senior faculty member of the Student Affairs
Committee, reviews appeals from the Student Con-

‘duct Committee, Student-Faculty Hearing Board,

interfratemity Council Judicial Board, Panhellenic
Judicial Board and residential disciplinary cases
handled by the Dorm Counselors and Resident Assis-
tants.

In 1992-93, the Board of Appeals heard two ap-
peals. One appeal was from a student who had been
dismissed from Washington and Lee by the SCC. The
second appeal was from a fraternity that appealed a
decision by the IFC Judicial Board to place it on social
probation for two weeks. In each case, the original
decisions of the SCC and the IFC were sustained.

David L. Howison
Dean of Students

Pit Party

There wil be an alcohol—free
party sponsored by the Univer-
sity and Alpha Phi Omega on
Sept. 17 from 9-12 p.m. in the Pit.
Non-alcoholic beverages will be
served. The party is open to all.
Call Heather Loveland at 462-
4392 for more information.

Health

Interested in health issues at
W&L? There will be an organi-
zational meeting Wednesday,
Sept. 22, 3:00-4:00 p.m., Arling-
ton Women’s Center. If you can’t
come, call Carol Calkins at 463-
8590. We need energy and
creativity to bring exciting pro-
grams to W&L.

Support

The Blue Ridge Sexual As-
sault Center and the Rockbridge
Area Coalition Against Sexual
Assault will be sponsoring a sup-
port group for persons who have
experienced sexual assault
and/or incest. The group will
meet in Staunton for 16 weeks,
Tuesday mornings, Sept. 21, 1993
- Jan. 4, 1994. For more informa-
tion, call the Blue Ridge Sexual
Assault Center at 885-7273 or
RACASA at 463-7273.

RACASA

The Rockbridge Area Coali-
tion Against Sexual Assault is
seeking volunteers to provide di-
rect victim services and commu-
nity education programs. The
33- hour Fall Volunteer Training
Program will be held from Thurs-
day, Sept. 30, 1993 through Sat-
urday, Dec. 4, 1993 at the Mint
Spring United Methodist Church.
For more information, call 463-
RAPE.

Medlterraneo

The Washingtontand Lee Uni-
versity Film Society will open the
1993-94 season with an Italian
film, Mediterraneo, directed by
Gabriele Salvatores. Showings
will be at 8:05 p.m. Friday and
Saturday, Sept. 17 and 18, in the
Troubadour Cinema at the corner
of Main and Henry streets. Ad-
mission is free.

The Phi

Anyone interested in writing
for TheRing—tum Phi should come
to storyboard meetings every
Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Room 208 of
University Center.

Kathekon

Kathekon will be in front of

the Co—op Tuesday, Sept. 21 , from

1 1 a.m. to 2p.m. and Wednesday,
Sept. 22 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
with catalogs for ordering ﬂoat

. supplies for the Homecoming

"Parade.

GENERAL
NOTES

 

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

The Flies

The W&L Theatre Departinent
announces open auditions for their
upcoming production of Jean-
Paul Sartre’s The Flies to be held
in the Johnson Theatre of the
Lenfest Center on Thursday, Sept.
16 at4:00 p.m.and 7:00 p.m., and
on Friday, Sept. 17 at 4:00 p.m.
and 7:00 p.m. Scripts are avail-
able from the Theatre secretary
on the third ﬂoor of the Lenfest
Center. Performance dates are
Oct. 22-26 and Oct. 29 and 30.

Lecture

Women’s Forum will hold its
first meeting this Sunday, Sept.
19 at 6:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women’s Center. Professor Tay-
lor Sanders,University historian,
will speak about W&L’s “first”
female student - back in the 18th
century. Students, faculty, men
and women are all welcome. Re-
freshments will be served.

 

Resumes

Resume Workshops will be
held on Monday, Sept. 20, 1993
at 4:00 p.m. in Room 109 of the
University Center and Wednes-
day, Sept. 22, 1993 at 11:00 a.m.
in Room 109 of the University
Center. These workshops are
open to all students who need
help with their resumes.

Interviews

An Interviewing Workshop
will be held on Tuesday, Sept. 21,
1993 at 4:00 p.m. in Room 109 of
the University Center. This work-
shop is required for all seniors
planning on having a videotaped
practice interview.

Accounting

Practice interviews for ac-
counting majors will be held all
day on Sept. 23, 1993. Atten-
dance at the Sept. 21 interviewing
workshop is required prior to par-
ticipating in the practice inter-
view.

Study Abroad

There will be a meeting for any
students interested in advanced
studies in England -— Bath, Ox-
ford—in Payne Hall Saturday, Sept.
18 at 3 p.m.

Yearbook

The Calyx will hold its first
orgainzational meeting in the
University Center Room 206
(above Fairfax Lounge) Sunday,
Sept. 19at6:30p.m. new and old
members welcome. Section edi-
tors, advertisinng managers,
photo editors and many other
staff positions available. If you
cannot attend this meeting please
call Sarah Butler at 463-5377 or
Anthony Catalano at 464-8814.

‘Now that summer is almost over, is there anything

you didn’t do that you wish you had done?

Stephanie Boden, ’96, Gladwyne,
.'Pa. — “Slept more and taken more
advantage of the sun.”

  

Tenn. —— “I wish I had gone to the
beach for more than two days.”

)7

per.

—— “Nothing you can print in this pa-

cleaned.”

 

Kirsten Ergenbright,’94,Maryville, John Brannum, ’96, Corvallis, Ore. Murphy, The Hill. — “I wish I had Chris Couzen, ’97, Union, NJ. —“I David Rosenbaum, ’97, Louisville,
gotten a new bone and my teeth wish I had gone down to the Jersey Ky.—“I wish I had relaxed more.”

shore more.”

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

MY VIEW
Michael Hewlett, ’96

August 28, 1993, approximately
100,000 people marched on Washing-
ton. In front of the Lincoln memorial,
speakers cried out for jobs, economic
opportunity, and an end to racial injus-
tice. The heat was unmerciful; people
passed out. Sweat glistened on many.
Asian—Americans, Native Americans,
and homosexuals as well as blacks with-
stood the heat to cry out for justice. Yet,
things were calmer. No one had to fight
Jim Crow anymore.

In 1993 blacks don’t have to see
“Colored” signs anymore. They don’t
have to worry about waterhoses and
biting dogs. They don’t have to force
their ways into restaurants, hotels, or
movie theaters anymore. But August
28, 1963 was a different time. On that
day Martin Luther King, Jr. proclaimed
his dream of a world unmarred by racial

injustice to an audience of over
200,000 people and to a nation sick-
ened with hatred. He hoped that his
daughter would one day be judged by
the content of her character, not the
color of her skin. He saw a world of
harmony and peace.

He dreamed of a Utopia where the
“sons of former slaves and the sons of
former slaveowners would be able to
sit down together at the table of broth-
erhood.” He had a wonderful, beauti-
ful dream of a day when America
would move beyond hate and truly
live up to the idea that all men are
created equal. But, alas, his dream
turned into a nightmare.

Only days after the march, four
little black girls were killed when
their church was bombed. Cities all
over the country exploded in violence.
Even after the Civil Rights Act of
1964 and the Voting Rights Act of
1965, the Kerner Commission found
that America was becoming two na-
tions, separate and unequal. Thirty

years later America is still two nations.
Although some progress has been made,
the sting of racism still burns. Most of
America, however, seems to be in a
state of denial. Maybe it was easier to
see injustice in 1963. You knew some-
thing was wrong when you turned on
the television and watched in horror as
waterhoses nearly washed black youths
up and down the street. You knew
when you saw heads bashed and
thrashed. You saw dogs biting people
and the police throwing tear gas. Big-
ots yelled “nigger.” The Ku Klux Klan
burned crosses. Oh, you knew America
was not America.

But you say, “Hey, this is 1993. All
that stuff ended a long time ago.” It’s
easy to say. That way you don’t have
to deal with the painful reality. The
reality is that racism is here. How do I
know? I know when I watch a justice
system give two years to a couple of
police officers who decided to hit
Rodney King 56 times over the head.
Why? Because Rodney King pretty

Martin Luther King J r.’s dream still unfulfilled

much deserved it. I know when I
watch in horror as Christopher Wilson

‘ tells how two white guys burned over

40% of his
body simply
because he is
black. Iknow
when I learn

Thirty years later
America is still two

about the plight of the black family but
not the American family. I know when
people start fearing black crime, not
crime. Iknow
when I become
defined by sta-
tistics. Iknow
when all I see

that an nations. Although some on the news
A m e ri ca 11 progress has been made about blacks is
who fought , . . ’ inner-citycrime
for the end of the sting of racism still and poverty. I
§partlheAi:l ‘in bul-ns_ Most of kno; bqpausel
ou rica - am ac .
is stabbed to ' Amerlcai h0.weVer9 Yet, most
death be- seems to be in a state of Ame ricans
cause of her denial. Maybe it was choosetolivein
color. Iknow , , , , _ afantasy world.
when 1 walk easier to see injustice in They say, “I
down the  don’t see
streets and re— color.” Tliat’s
alize that alie. Ofcourse,

some people will probably assume
that I am a drug dealer before they
realize that I am a college student. I
know when people continuously talk

you see color. You know how to tell a
black person from a white person. The
problem comes when you attach certain
assumptions about a person because of

 

PAGE 4

his race. Race has nothing to do with
intelligence, athletic ability, sexuality,
or moral fiber. Well, you might say, “I
know that.” Fine. Pass that message
along. People need to hear it. re
importantly, people need to talk. Yes,
there will be tension and anger but also
understanding. In The Souls of Black
Folk, W.E.B. du Bois said that the
problem of the 20th century would be
the color line. It still is.

However, the problem will not be
solved by trying to convince ourse ves
that the problem does not exist. It will
be solved by honestly talking about
race with each other. We need to
respect and understand each other’s
culture, history, and individuality. This
is the key to ending racism in America.
It’s not about being politically corﬁ:ct
or incorrect, liberal or conservative,
it’s about doing the right thing. It all
comes down to what Rodney King
asked 30 years after Dr. King dreamed
his dream: “Can we all just get along?”
Well, can we?

Discrimination in the military jeopardizes safety

MY VIEW
Meriwether Nichols, ’94

After reading the first several paragraphs of
Andrew Olmem’s essay on homosexuals in the
military, I was surprised to see that he actually
makes a point that I agree with.

He says, “The military has no place for
individual freedom.” I thought about this a
great deal, and I kept mulling over the idea of
the good of the whole being more important
than the wishes of a few and how such an idea
plays into the entire controversy. Then it oc-
curred to me that insisting that homosexuals
stay out of the service, or, at the very least, keep
quiet and remain abstinent in order to stay in, is
just pandering to the desires of some not to have
to deal with anybody who isn’t straight.

It is a fundamental right in this nation to have
the freedom to choose, to discern, and by some

,"'<v, 3
...“. .~§‘»~d- '

definitions, to discriminate, but the law also
defines some cases in which this nation will
tolerate it. The groups which have garnered this
protection under the law have not won it easily,
and right now the

and unity of a fighting corps would be compro-
mised if openly queer people served in them.
(Funny that those same people forget about the
possibility for blackmail in a military which

outlaws homosexu-

homosexual com-
munity is stepping

If sleeping next to or working

ality, but which has
always had homo-

forward to say that sexuals in the
it wants its propers with a spic, nigger, Bible-beater; _ ran_1I<;)- k, d f
oo. esame In 0

Idon’thear this cracker’ or homo bothers you’ argumentwas made

group of men and
womensayingthey
want all determi-

don’t join the military. It’s that
simple. That is your right.

when integration of
the armed forces
was at issue, but the

nants thrown out. I
understand the
message to mean that one’s desire to sleep with
someone of the same sex is not a valid deter-
mining factor on one’s ability to serve effec-
tively in the armed forces; in other words, that
it should not enter into the picture at all.

One often hears the argument that the strength

United States gov-

emmentsaidthat the
right of these people to serve over-rides the
potential problem of racism in the ranks. Things
certainly didn’t go smoothly, nor do they al-
ways now, but the government basically said to
the bigots of the military, “Get over it and make
it work.”

It seems inconceivable now to think that a
man in the military would have a legal leg
tostand on if he argued he didn’t feel he could
trust his life in battle to that nigger who sleeps
in the bunk next to him. Why is it any different
if someone doesn’t feel safe sewing with a
queer or sleeping next to one in his barracks.

This brings me back to the issue of personal
freedoms. The right for gay men and women to
sleep with whichever consenting adult they
want, of which ever sex they want, is far more
compelling than the right for all homophobic
military personnel not to have to deal with
faggots and dykes.

So, if sleeping next to or working with a
spic, nigger, Bible—beater, cracker, or homo
bothers you, don’t join the military. It’s that
simple. That is your right.

But it is not your right to say that a lesbian,
for example, cannot serve her country’s armed
forces because, oh my god, she goes to bed with
other women. And likewise, I should not have

« I
«mu! r4g_.\qi H '5 i‘
' v

.v~-5-. . ..
-pas: art’-Iii ' 

'7-14-1.4‘

the right to insist that all Christians, for ex-
ample, remain silent about their relationship
with Christ, because I may have an extreme
moral objection to the tenets of Christianity.
Although there is not much protective legis-
lation yet, the time is here, whether or not
everybody is ready for it. Things are rapilly
changing, and soon any pseudo-intellectual ar-
gument touting that allowing people who are
attracted to those of the same sex to enjoy the
same rights of all Americans and to be protected
from discrimination will sound just like the
false arguments asserting the inferiority of
women or of African-Americans. 9
It may not happen during this administration
or the next, but it will happen, and all of the
homophobic people in this country will have
either to change their views or become tolerant
of gays, lesbians, and bisexuals, because the
closet door has been ﬂung open, and with more
queers coming out all the time. I’m pretty sgre
that closet is way too small by now anyway.

DUI 3 higher than last year I

To the editor:

Three years ago, in an effort to in-
crease the awareness of student disci-
plinary issues and promote more re-
sponsible behavior in our community,
the Office of the Dean of Students
compiled the student arrest records in
the city of Lexington beginning in Fall
1988.

In Fall Term 1990, with the coop-
eration of the Inter-fraternity Council,
the Lexington City Police, the Lexing-
ton Community Council, and the Vir-
ginia Department of Alcohol Beverage
Control, a coordinated effort was made
to improve communication between
Washington and Lee and the Lexing-
ton community. Our goals were to ad-
dress issues before they became seri-
ous problems and to reduce the number

of Washington and Lee students ar-
rested for alcohol-related violations.

In the first two years of our “Town-
Gown” effort, the results were encour-
aging. Arrests for alcohol-related of-
fenses declined from a high of 182 in
1988-89 to 152 in 1989-90 to a low of
117 in 1991-92.

Unfortunately, the total arrests for
last year reversed the positive down-
ward trend. 121 Washington and Lee
students were cited for alcohol viola-
tions in 1992-93 with the most signifi-
cant increase coming in the area of
under-age-possession/drinking in pub-
lic.

As we started this academic year, I
was hoping that our cooperative efforts
with the Lexington Police and our pro-
grams to increase awareness of the

consequences of the abuse of alcohol
would get us back on the right track.
Unfortunately, the report I received
this week from Mike Young indicated
that we are not off to a good start. Over
the past week, six Washington and Lee
students were arrested for DUI. The
total figure for all of last year was 15.

I call upon all Washington and Lee
students to exercise good judgment
and responsible conduct, particularly
when it comes to the use of alcohol.
Remember that your conduct in hex-
ington is a measure not only of indi-
vidual standards but is also a reﬂection
of the standards of Washington and
Lee.

David L. Howison
Dean of Students

LETTERS '.:;:.:::«.!=.'; .2;

Professor
resents trash
on her lawn

To the editor:

A sure sign that W&L students have
returned to Lexington is the appear-
ance on Saturday morning of three beer
cans on my little front lawn, across the
street from fraternity houses on East
Washington Street, and within view of
a city trash container.

I know your mother taught you bet-
ter... Tsk, tsk.

Greta McCaughrin

Guidance Counselor

thanks W&L students

To the editor:

I am writing in an effort to recog-
nize and thank the many W&L stu-
dents who have worked as tutors and
Big Brothers or Big Sisters to the stu-
dents at Central Elementary School.

Most of these students have dedi-
cated 1-3 hours a week all year to
helping our children in grades K-5.

Our students have grown socially
and academically because of this atten-
tion. .

Thanks to:

Eric Shirley, Steve Johnson, Justin
King Sara Morgan, Amy Rash, Ashley
Myler, Elise Hagensen, Jen Ciocca,
Susan Mahan, Rachel Simpson, Will

Graham, Paul Mallos, Sarah Wyatt,
Miriam Neel, Julia Podlas, Kerry Egsn,
Robert Carter, Heather Leonard, Carter
Page, Becca McCord, Billy Aiken,
Robert Hull, Barton Sterling, Patricia
Coughlin, Christine Hamle', Kristin
Lawrence, Julian Smith, Ashlie
Kaufman, Mary Nabors, Francie
Cohen, Sally Oberrneuller, Elizabeoh
Carson, Ayanna Brady, Brandon
Neblett, David Bartlett, Fran Ascher,
Dave Leﬂtowitz, Melissa Miller, Kim
Schooley

Sincerely,
Mrs. Margie Page
Guidance Counselor

dog.

Right NOW... someone is eating a really bad chili 1

Right NOW... someone you know is playing boccie.

Right NOW... you could be writing for the Phi and

not have to care about chili dogs or boccie, and you
could be having fun writing about interesting things.

  Be 01 partof Right Now... write

  for the Phi ’ ”

ii

41

M. «:2» +-;<~.r~r«~.:*.'~w: -pl» -~~~a-.:”~»“'~‘~-'.’: <"~*;?r~..v.:     v =4

 

 

The Psychology behind  

' the Citibank Classic Visa card, and the

emotional security of the Photocard. The Citibank Classic Visa‘“’

    

 

O
instills in students feelings of safety, security, and general wellness not unlike those experienced
in the womb. Therefore, it is the mother of all credit cards. ‘I[ Some experts attribute these feelings
‘ _
to the Citibank Photocard, the only credit card with your photo on it. A voice inside says, “This
is me, really me.” (As opposed to, “Who the heck is that?”—a common response to the photo
9 on one’s driver’s license.) It’s an immediate form of
ID, a boost to your self-image. ‘][ Of course if your card is.
Q o o -
ever lost or stolen and a stranger 1S prevented from using it,
ou’ll feel exce tionall ood (showin 'no”si ns of Credit
Y P 3’ 8 g 3
o H Subject suffering from ' ‘ '
Credit CardTheﬂNm0Sa' Card Theft Nervosa). ‘][ Other experts point to specific
services, such as The Lost Wallet“ Service that can replace
* your card usually within 24 hours. Or the 24-Hour Cus-
tomer Service line, your hotline, if you will, for any card- The Monarch“ Notes Version:
- related anxiety whatsoever. ‘][ Further analysis reveals three The Cmbank Classic Card gwes
. . . . dents eace of mind rotection
S b - - C b k - . . . 3t“ P ’ P
M J eCC,:,i{;:r\,:::,ei)V;,Z§(,c.:f;([1n services that protect the purchases you make on the Citibank _
\ against Freud——or rather fraud—a
a‘ Classic Visa card, at no additional cost. 1. Buyers Security“ can cover them against accidental low rate and no fee. Apply today
damage, ﬁre or theft, for 90 days from the date of purchase.l..(prexre;;ti;gg, of course, Insecurity). Call 1-300-CITIBANIQ eXt- 19

. 2. Citibank Lifetime Warranty“ allows one to extend the warranty for the expected service
life of eligible products up to 12 years? 3. And Citibank Price Protection assures you of the best

price. You need only see the same item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank

 

-5
will refund the difference up to $150‘ (hence no Post Purchase Depression). ‘ll Special student
‘ savings are particularly therapeutic. There’s the free Citibank Calling Service“ from MCI to save
up to 26% on long distance calls versus AT&T.3 (You’re encouraged to call Mom and Dad regu-
. larly preventing Parenta Non—Supportus.) And a $20 Airfare Discount“ on any domestic flight.
(Case studies indicate that a Fear of Flying is overcome when Spring Break in sunny Florida is a i
. possibility.) Not to mention the low variable interest rate of 15.4%5 and no annual fee for college A
\ students. ‘ll Sufﬁce it to say, you’ll have a credit card you can depend on while building a credit
history. So call 1-800-CITIBANK, extension 19, to apply over the phone (students don’t
o x .
need a job or a cosigner) or to have your photo added :
,9 '0 to your Citibank Classic Visa card. ‘ll If we say that a 
1? ‘ sense of Identity is the ﬁrst component of the Citibank 
Classic Visa card, a sense of Security the second, and 
.3 a sense of Autonomous Will from your newfound 1
ﬁnancial independence the third. don’t be crazy...Call. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.
in

‘Certain conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International
UK Limited. ’Certain restrictions and limitations apply Underwritten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is at
least the minimum based on retail industry data. Details of coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. ‘Savings claim is
based on a I0-minute night/weekend call in the l.9ll to 3.000 mileage band using MC|'s Card Compatibility rates vs. AT&T‘s standard calling card rates. effective
4/93. Citibank Calling Service long distance usage cannot be applied to obtain beneﬁts under any other’ MCI partner program or offer. including travel award programs.
‘Offer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by [SE Flights only ‘The Annual Percentage
Rate for purchases is l5.4% as of 8/93 and may vary quarterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advances is l9.8"/o. If a finance charge is imposed. the
. minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional ﬁnance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% of the amount of each cash advance Il'zln.\‘.lCIl()ll'. however.
it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $10.00. Monarch” Notes are published by Monarch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster. a Paramount (‘ommunications
Company. Used by permission of the publisher. Citibank credit cards are issued by Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. ©l993 Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. Member FDIC.

‘ll 

 

 

Foreign masterpiece deﬁnes ﬁlm excellence

Patience and sense of humor necessary for first—time viewer to avoid frustration

By David Wilmington
Phi Features Editor

 

Foreign film. Foreign Film?

For most people, just hearing those two
words conjures up images of dark, smoky scenes
inhabited by sulky, rude people wearing berets.
To the uninitiated, foreign films are a night-
mare of philosophical babble and weird camera
angles. And of course, we can’t forget the
looming presence of the Clown of Death made
popular by beer commercials.

If you can get around the initial culture
shock though, you’ll probably see something
that will forever change your idea of what a
movie can communicate.

Federico Fellini’s masterpiece, 8 1/2, is one
of the landmark events in film history. The plot
concerns an Italian director named Guido,
played by Mercello Mastroienni, trying to make
a movie while at the peak of his career.

He has a patient, wealthy producer, an army
of assistants, a huge production crew, and two
of the most famous and beautiful actresses in
the world. Though he has all of these resources
at his ﬁngertips, he is unable to find any sense
of direction in his story.

Guido asks himself, “Suppose you’re really
finished, you uninspired, untalented
fake...Enough of symbolism, and these escapist
themes...'I'hen what am I looking for?” Writer’s
block is too weak a term to describe Guido’s
condition. Mid—life artistic impotence is prob-
ably a more appropriate description.

The initially confusing aspects of this film
are also the most brilliant. As Fellini follows
Guido through the painful process of indeci-
sion, the audience is allowed to see Guido’s
dreams and memories.

The opening scene is a dream sequence in
which Guido’s feeling of suffocation is trans-
lated into a visual image.

Perhaps the most famous scene from 8 1/2 is
Guido’s hilarious fantasy about controlling all
of the women in his life, past and present. In his
daydream, all the women he has ever known
live and serve him in his childhood home.

When the normally happy and subservient
women begin a rebellion, Wagner’s “Ride of
the Valkyries” begins blaring as Guido fright-
ens them all back into loving submission. The

scene successfully illustrates Guido’s desire
for resolution in his life as well as his need to
feel completely in control. It is important to
remember that these scenes are supposed to be
as strange and disjointed as real dreams and
fantasies.

Most of the film is set at a fashionable
mineral water spa where Guido hopes to be
cured of his indecision. The entire film crew is
at the spa as

FEATURES

him he has committed a mortal sin. For added
effect, his mother is called in to show how he
has shamed her. After a lesson about the neces-
sity of completely shunning women, a priest
explains to Guido that Saraghina is the Devil.

This ﬂashback sequence fades directly into
Daumier saying, “What does that mean? It’s
just another episode from your childhood
memories..you must lift everything to a more

raphy. There is even a scene where he antici-
pates his wife’s reaction to seeing 8 1/2. Guido
invites his wife to watch the casting calls for the
hopelessly mired movie. Here she sees that the
character modeled after her has been cast as an
unattractive mother ﬁgure while the mistress is
sensuous and warm.

It’s a wonder that Fellini had any friends at
all after 8 1/2 was released.

The other
well as his great mo-
writer, pro- " ' ' ment of this
ducer, mis— kind of dual
tress, and 3 ' ; realitycomes
eventually, _; w h e n
his wife. This §  Guido’s pro-
mass of  _ 3 ducer tells
swarming E .  him, “I un-
peplple allows E - ,' d :31 r s t a n d

e miano - :. E" w at ou
portunity $0  i want the film
show the J! - to say. You
ran eofpres- i ' want to show
surgs Guido - -; theoonfusion
must deal ' :  ‘ that man has
with. .  inside him-

The com- ‘g ‘ self. Just be
mentary of ii surethatwhat
G u i d o ’ s  interestsyou,
w r i t e r ,  interests ev-
Daumier, is " erybody. Re-
one of the member, the
most brilliant audience has
elements of tounderstand
the film. The the film.”Itis
snobbishly certainly not
intellectual hardtoimag-
Daumiercon— ine Fellini’s
stantly criti— p r 0 d u c e r
cizesGuido’s echoing the
story ideas by same words.
addressing W h e n
many of the things seem
vague sym- to be as in-

bols and sequences that the audience is ponder-
ing. In effect, Daumier is critiquing8 I/2 while
it’s being viewed by the audience.

For example, during one sequence, Guido
remembers an event that happened while he
was in Catholic grammar school.

He and some friends walked to see Saraghina,
a crazy woman who lived on a beach near his
school. For entertainment, they pay her to dance
while they laugh at her. Just as Saraghina con-
vinces Guido to learn the dance with her, two
priests come running up the beach to break up
the show.

This seemingly innocent episode results in a
session before the head priests where they tell

sophisticated level. You must use stringent and
unassailable logic! Don’t you see the confu-
sion? The ambiguity!” g

It almost seems as if Fellini were trying to
second guess possible criticism of his movie.

As with any work of art, programmatic
information is not necessary, but it can make
some aspects clearer. To understand some of
the more subtle elements in the movie, it helps
to know that Fellini made this movie as an
autobiography. 8 1/2 is a movie about Fellini’s
artistic struggle to make 8 1/2. Guido is Fellini
just as Guido’s wife and mistress are Fellini’s
wife and mistress.

Fellini held back nothing from his autobiog-

sane as they can possibly get, Guido realizes
that the only way he can make a movie about his
abstract, confusing life is to put everything
from his life into the movie. Seemingly unre-
lated characters and ideas all come together in
one place-just as they do in everyone’s mind
and memory. The end of the movie is»a proces-
sion of everything from the mundane to the
absurd that makes Guido who he is. It is one of
the most moving and truly uplifting scenes in
film history.

8 1/2 is Italian and was filmed in black and
white. The actors are Italian, French, andAmeri—
can and they speak Italian, French and English
duringthe movie. Fellini supervised the dubbed

 
   
     
   
   
   
   
     
  
    
    
   
  
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

version himself, so the impact of accents an
articulation are not lost as in most dubbed films
Unfortunately, the W&L Library only has th
subtitled version which suffers from some in
stances of illegible text due to a white back
ground. ‘

In terms of getting your feet wet, this ma
not be the best introduction to foreign film
After all, this film is difficult to understan
when it’s being explained in English. Don’t
expect to get everything the first time around.
Even after the fourth viewing, I found mysel
laughing at jokes I had missed before an
seriously thinking about what I had previously
thought were jokes.

Maybe that’s the key to appreciating foreign
films-the understanding that if something seems
funny or sad or weird to you, it was probably
meant to be funny, sad or weird. Just because a
movie is in black and white and in a different
language doesn’t mean that it’s dealingﬁvith
fundamental questions of human existence!
But it might be.

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
     
   
  
   

Octob

Tnﬁiﬁyz . . — 99*. I
. V Coricert Guild 5,5 «ls-.'I'h M I "K0
up . . (

 

 
  

 
 
 

With this, you

That penny jar on your dresser

Now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh® per-
sonal computers. You can also get special student financing with the
Apple® Computer Loan*— to make owning a Mani“ even easier. To see

Apple Macintosh » 5
Color Classic‘ 4/80, Built-in 10" Color
Monitor 6App1e Keyboard I1. 5933

Apple Macinlotsb
[C111 4'/80, Apple Basic Color
Monitor GApple Keyboard 11. $1250

With these, you .
can save for years. can save right now

  
 

 

just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus
Reseller today. And discover the power more college students ' L
choose. The power of Macintosh.’ The power to be your best‘?

For further information visit University Computing in
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud

‘Available /0 qualgfyirzg students‘, alparlidpalirig aulborizezlAp/)le Campus Resellers. ©1993 Apple Computer. Inc. All riqblv re.vez'zml. A/2/Ile. //Je Apple logo. Jim‘.

or call 463-8844

*Prices do not include sales tax

Mzm'n/or/J (HI(l “T/1r‘ power 10 b£’_)'0Il?‘ bexl " are regi.\'/cred /rztzlernzxrlzs Q/ll/i/Ile (Iom/ruler. Inc. /ilacm/ml; (lm/ri.\' mI(ll’011~ez-Baal: are Irzlrlerrlurkv o/A/I/Ila C0/ll/JIIIWI Im: C'lu.u'ic it (I regilrlered Imzlemarlz /iwriml /0 Apply Cam/mlw: Inc:

Apple PowerBoole ”‘ 1458 4/80,
Built-in Keyboard and I0" Badelit Super
Twist Monocbmme Display. $12 78

AppleMaci'ruosb Cemris" 610 ’ 4,
4/80, Apple Basic ColorMom'tor 6 ‘
Apple ExtendedKeyboardll. $1488

  

 
  

 
 
 

  
 
  
  

   

   
  
  

Ca:

   
 
  

  

 

    
 

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

FEATURES

 

PAGE 7

‘Visiting professor stomps the blues

By David Wilmington

P/Ii Features Editor

The   e nt
ctivities
Board

is now taking
applications for
membership.

Forms anci interview schedules are
available in the University Center
at Carol Calkins’ office.

 DEADLINE: Saturday, September

   

 
  

18th

     
   
 

Notice: This does not apply to the
FD Committee --— Interviews will
be held in January

Tuesday, visiting professor Albert Murray started his
semester long stay at Washington and Lee by reviewing the
evolution of democracy and defining the nature of art. He

also sang a few choruses from Count Basi'e’s “One ‘O Clock

Jump”.

Murray is the critically-acclaimed author of several books
of essays and two novels. Count Basie chose him to
transform his autobiographical memoirs into stylized prose.
The list of jazz musicians who have considered Murray as
intellectual mentor and friend includes Duke Ellington and
Wynton Marsalis. Romare Bearden’s “The Block” was
painted from the View out of Murray’s Harlem apartment.

Despite his proximity to legendary characters, Murray
has remained comparatively unknown outside of academic
and jazz circles. By the time he published his first book in
1970, Murray was 54 years old. He had a B.S. from Tuskegee,
an M.A. from NYU, 10 years of teaching experience, and
service in two wars under his belt.

Murray ’ s professorship came about through W&L’s mem-
bership in the Virginia Foundation of Independent Colleges.
The DuPont Foundation gave a grant to the VF IC to enable
member schools to obtain various guest professors and
lecturers. When English professor Severn Duvall saw
Murray’s name on a list of available professors, he urged
Associate Dean of the College Lad Sessions to get him.

During his tenure at W&L, Murray is teaching two
courses in two departments. The Blues is an Interdepartmen-
tal course focusing on the aesthetic, social, and heroic
characteristics of blues music. Murray describes the empha-
sis of his English class, Introduction to Regional Literature,
as “the processing of the idiomatic details of regional expe-
rience into universal literary statement.”

The reading list for the course includes “Oedipus Rex”,
“Hamlet”, The Sound and the Fury , and Murray’s two
novels-Train Whistle Guitar and The Spyglass Tree. He
points out that although the English course deals with
literature instead of music, keeping an American frame of
reference guarantees that the blues is still relevant.

One of the first tasks the 77 year-old Murray takes upon
himself is to differentiate between the blues as a feeling and
the blues as music. He says the purpose of blues music is not
lamentation, as sociologists have taught, but rather affirmation
and celebration. Blues music is created to stomp away the
melancholia brought on by the feeling of the blues.

The next major concept present in much of Murray’s
work is the definition and categorization of art. In books and
lectures, Murray defines art as “the ultimate extension,
elaboration, and reﬁnement of the rituals that represent the
basic survival technology of a culture.” He goes on to relate
this definition to the continually overlapping categories of
folk, pop, and fine art.

Murray’s statements on art are interwoven with observa-
tions on the nature of Western thought. He stresses that
government for the people, by the people, and of the people

 

was an invention, it didn’t just happen. “It was
a logical extension of western jurisprudence. ”
Using numerous examples, he makes a refresh-
ingly clear case for deﬁning Eurocentrism as
the most multicultural of all schools of thought.

His process of explaining and exemplifying
his views draws upon a seemingly endless
knowledge of virtually every imaginable field
of study. Murray stresses the construction of
what he calls “a twentieth century mind set”
through the synthesis of every attainable piece
of knowledge.

“I provide existential equipment for living,”
he said.

'Albert Murray provides “existential equipment for living” in seminar courses

After the first lecture, student reaction was a
mixture of enthusiasm and dazed admiration.
“He’s the smartest person l’ve ever met,” said
senior Maryanna Phipps, “he knows every-
thing.” Other students noticed that after dis-
cussing apparently divergent topics such as the
second law of thermodynamics and the ancient
Phoenicians, Mr. Murray is somehow able to
relate everything back to the blues.

Many students and friends have commented
on his overwhelming sense of purpose and
vitality. Murray offers the best explanation for
this impression, “I am a professor because I
profess something.”

And it’s a part ’
will not sacr

    
       

  
    
      

 

Brawl causes at least two trips to hospital .

Men kick off Rush Monday .

h>BFtAWL, from page 1

“We’re there to help the freshmen un-
derstand Rush.”

The freshmen will go to four houses
per night until Thursday evening. Until
this year, freshmen did not have to
attend all 16 fraternities during the
three nights of open houses.

“I’m glad they’re going to every
house now,” said Kaufman. “[Before]
you were basically cutting six or seven
houses because of rumors.”

According to Donaldson, the open
houses will be a little shorter but the
freshmen will be able to see all frater-
nities during the period.

Offices move
to El Rodeo

 

9
The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 19.

h>BFiAWL, from page 1

in. The cadets who were formally invited were
not involved in the ﬁght, according to Guice.
Phi Delt members James Whiteside and
Douglas Kennedy suffered injuries in the fight.
A cadet broke a bottle over Whiteside’s head,
bloodying his face. Kennedy suffered a broken
nose when he was kicked in the face by a cadet.
Whiteside had no comment on the tenth phone
call to his home, and Kennedy could not be

.  reached after ten phone calls to his home.

Two cadets also suffered injuries. One cadet

‘ I broke his ankle when he leaped over W&L’s

memorial wall as he ﬂed from police. The
second bruised his ribs in the fight. He refused
treatment when it was offerred by the police,
but later asked to be taken to the hospital.

A total of ten police cars arrived at the scene
to break up the fight—- four Lexington city
police cars, four county police cars, one VMI
post police car and a game warden car, said
Lexington Police Seargeant R.H. Sutton.

“When police arrived the ﬁght dispersed,”
said Sutton. “I don’t know how long it was
going on, but it didn’t last that long.”

Sutton said that two cadets were arrested,
but one got away.

“I arrested one— [I had to] mace him. He

was power—driving a W&L student into the
ground. But two other cadets pulled him away
behind Lee Chapel— he got away and I have
not yet identified him.”

The second cadet, Jay John Ferriola, was
arrested by Lexington Police Officer Mark
Ramos, said Sutton.

Despite the arrests, Sutton said no one has
filed a complaint. He is undecided on what
action he will take, if any.

Interfraternity Council President Curt Smith
said that the IFC will not take action on the fight
because it was between Phi Delt and the cadets.

VMI Commandant Colonel Mike Bissell
said that both sides were guilty in the fight, but
told a different version of the story.

“All I can tell you is what I got,” said Bissell.
“Nine or ten cadets went over to the party.
Three of them had lived with a W&L student
over the summer. They were invited and asked
if their friends could be invited [when they
showed up].'

“Cadets were being harrassed. It got out of
hand with pushing and shoving. Then someone
called the post police.”

Bissell said VMI is conducting a student
investigation of the fight, but that “no one at
VMI is interested [in the fight].”

“They’re not even putting it in the paper [at
VMI],” said Bissell.

   
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 

Bissell said he did not know that two cad
were arrested.

W&L Dean of Students David Howist
said that “It’s a very unfortunate way tgbeg
the year.”

~“The reality is this— when cadets are i
vited to our parties, they are the guests of o
fraternities,” said Howison. “Our students ha‘
the right to expect respect for people and pro,
erty.”

Bissell said that he and Howison met wi
the Lexington Community Council on Thur
day.

“We want to keep relations going,” sa
Bisell. “These are two great schools—we shou
get along better.”

But Bissell said that W&L and VMI shou
not try to mix on a social level.

“It would be great to party together?’ sa
Bissell, “but the potential for fights is ther
When you get alcohol with two close schoo
it’s just a tendency— we have two differ_

types of schools.

“I don’t think cadets should be invited ‘
It’s a W&L party,” Bissell said.

Howison agreed. 0

“One of the steps from the fraternity pe
spective is not to invite the cadets,” sa
Howison. “It’s unfortunate, but understan
able.”

“Now the freshmen are required to
go to all 16 houses. Before they just
picked nine and cut six right off the
bat,” Donaldson said.

Preference cards from the freshmen
will be due a week from today with
Rush dates starting Sunday, Sept. 26.

At Tuesday night’s IFC meeting, Pi
Kappa Phi became the first fraternity to
receive a Rush violation this year. Pi
Phi received the violation after inviting
freshmen to a brother’s home for a
Monday night football party. When
IFC President Curt Smith walked in,
there was no member from another
fraternity present.

“They got the violation for enter-

taining freshmen with no other frater-
nity present,” IFC Vice President Ryan
Donaldson said. “We looked into it and
it was pretty blatant.”

But Smith added “on Pi Phi ’s behalf
there was one Kappa Sig at the party
for 30 minutes to an hour.”

Pi Phi received a $1500 fine and is
on social probation until Saturday. Al-
though they lost their Wednesday night
party and tonight’s party, Pi Phi did not
lose its Saturday night band party.

Because the penalty for the infrac-
tion depends on the circumstances, the
IFC opted not to give Pi Phi the full
penalty which would have resulted in
two weeks social probation and the
fine.

I-vBRAWL, from page 1

Committee reviews
W&L coeducation

people who have been at W&L

    
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  

Registrar’s Office to expand some,” said Jour-
nalism Department Head Hampden Smith.

Smith said there is currently no money in,
the capital campaign for a full renovation of
Reid Hall, a renovation he said is definitely
needed.

“The hope is that around the first of the
year, the university will be in a position to do
some construction in there (Reid),” he said.

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
6 Phi Excutive Editor

In the ninth year of coeduca-
tion President John D. Wllson
and Dean of the College John
Elrod have appointed a com-
mittee to review coeducation.

since before coeducation began ‘

and who arrived after it began.

Joining Simpson and Strong
will be Lisa Alty, assistant pro-
fessor 0 Chemistry; Arthur
Goldsmith, associate professor
of economics; Kathy Jo
Koberstein, associate professor

   
    
   
   
 

Wilson plans 1995 retirement

campaign will help fulfill. He said he
would like to see the science center in
an advanced stage, although he knows

continue to worry. .
“I’d love to retire at the point wher
I can stop worrying,” Wilson said. ‘

I->BRAWL, from page 1

he believes the Watson Pavilion and

it will not be completed before he
leaves. Wilson also said a successful
capital campaign will help the univer-
sity increase its financial aid budget,
which he said is “strapped.”

Wilson said he would also like to
see the new women’s varsity basket-
ball team do well and the Student Ac-
tivities Board organize more social
events that do not group students by
Greek affiliation and involve the entire
student body.

But, Wilson said he does not want to
over commit himself in his last years.

“You have to try and limit your-
self,” Wilson said. “You can’t do too
much.”

Wilson said he will continue to ap-
proach his job the same way and he will

worry too much all the time.”
Wilson said he worries about th
students when he hears a car screec
away from the dorms at night and i
bothered when he sees something th .-
needs repair.
“I can’t take a walk without seein
a window frame that needs to be painte
or a beer can under a bush,” Wilso
said. “I’ve picked up more beer can
than any student I know. You sort 0
become so close to a place, you hope .’
can be the best it can be all the t9me.-
Wilson said it’s a sign that you ha
been somewhere too long when yo
worry about everything. After Jun
1995, he plans to live a quieter life.
“I’ll just go and disappear into th .
16th century.”

TGIF

Elrod said the committee,
which will be chaired by Pamela
Simpson, professor of Art His-
tory and Art Department Chair,
and Robert Strong, professor of
politics, has been asked to docu-
ment the changes in the univer-
sity during the last eight years.

of Romance Languages; Nancy
Margand, associate professor of
psychology; Elizabeth Oliver,
assistant professor of account-
ing; Cecile West-Settle, associ-
ate professor of Romance Lan-
guages and Tom Williams, pro-
fessor of physics. Senior Frankie
Jones, Juniors Daniel Felton,
IV and Carol Pierce are the stu-
dent representatives.

Dean of Students David
Howison said he had recom-
mended the students to
Simpson, Strom, and Elrod.
The coeducation committee’s
findings will be reported at the
end of the academic year.

    
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
     
  
     
 
   
   
 
    
   
    
    
    

Smith stressed there are no concrete plans
for how the vacated space in Reid Hall will be
divided, but speculated how things might end

up

the Watson collection will be tremen-
dous assets to the university. He said
the more students learn about the col-
lection the more they will appreciate it.

“It won’t be thought to be so much
the elegant side show that some stu-
dents think it to be,” he said. “There’s
a whole story to be told by those cups
and saucers.”

Wilson said the Watson collection
is very unusual and gives the university
a unique opportunity.

“Every college and university has a
responsibility to preserve the best of
the past,” he said.

But Wilson, like Elrod, stresses that
his work is not done. Wilson said he
has some goals that a successful capital

“We suspect that... the print shop will be
split in two and a computer room and a seminar
room will be placed there,” he said.

Smith said that although no concrete plans . . .
have been made to move professors’ offices in Elrod Sald the commmee W1“

Reid Hall, such moving around is “a possibil- also Consider the present and
 9: future.

“We need to take our pulse
at the moment,” Elrod said.
“And we need to look into our
future.”

Elrod said he and Wilson
appointed Simpson and Strong.
Elrod said he and Wllson
wanted to have a balance of

W

Equally nebulous are the plans for the use
of the office space which will be vacated by the
Career Development and Placement Office in
the University Center. According to Ruth
Lewis of CD&P, the office is scheduled to
move to Sigma Chi next year, along with the
News Office and the University Publications

Office.
W

Party Picture Photographers Needed

  

 

    

 
         

     

  

 
     

  
  

—
H I The Must have own 35 mm equipment & car
Point of  Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6 C
R t t
FRATS! SORORITlESi es man Join us for our T
swarm GROUPS! "“'”‘;';::;;“"‘ Laxuiarotl H. ,_ sunset special Lexingtop
Raise as MuchasYou , , mcycu W1LL30N-  W Ii“. I qwuesday - Saturday F 17 S01\l,Ilth,3ia\l,:,:)r§1f,'n=S
"""='"‘ ”‘ 0"‘ Wwk’ C""‘“lD”"?"' SHOP W A L K E R    5:30-6:30 pm. ‘;‘{‘;‘;‘;fa Sid Shoes rm
$100. . .$600. . .$1500! E1280!!!‘ Setting  illgagrgg  $1000 per person America’s Finest Catalog _

   
     
   
   
   
     

  

 

    
    
    
  
  
    
 
    

Market App"°‘“j°"‘ f°' ‘he ~ Finest Steaks ' °“"‘ '5'” " s""'°' Mail Order Companies. Ne

~“s‘iv“‘i‘;'i°4"$i§i‘—E‘iE”.{i§B. - push Seafood ' "°'§‘.i.'n'-"pod B-9-Al P-ch Includes salad, homemade rolls & rnuﬁn, Shipments Every Week.
Users earn BIC DISCOUNTS -Pork Ribs ' entree and beverage. Experience the Thrill‘ of

on GM CARS! Qualify for FREE
T-SHIRT 8: '94 CMC JIMMY.
Call 1-800-950-1039, ext. 75.

Saving 50% to 80% off of
Catalog Prices. 0

 

_ K - Banquet Facilities J

30 N. Main St.. Lexington Reservations Recommended 463-3020

 

  
  
 

Guaranteed.
Fr \\ E22 22. WAY5 _
W&L Art *°“eLP$'*”e“*e  463-9730

GAP-h-I CM-L mmw Hours: Mon. - Sat.

Signatures: l’m°"“l’88’8887' M”. 9330 ' 5:30 3
Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee A
M. Miley John Letcher
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr.

   
    

      

Sam Houston A. P. Hill

Horse Boarding

Lazy Acres: 9 stall barn, new lighted ,
arena, excellent turnout, new fencing, _, ,
miles of trails, and conveniently located 
4 miles from Rt. 11 South, 2 miles from
the Virginia Horse Center on 39 West,

across from Long's campgrounds. $300
per month includes stalls cleaned and  ’ ‘ .
bedded, light daily grooming, turnout b1anket'ng, feed,

and water. Pasture board available at $100 per month
per horse. Riding lessons and horse training available
from qualified personnel. Call (703) 463-1636 and

leave a message.

   

W&L Copperplate. hand-colored
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

k\ A

      
     
     
 
 
 

 
 
   

  
  

     

 
   
    

  
 

Caans

117 W. Nelson Street Sunday 11-4 Daily 10-6

 
 
   

 

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee has 20 new
= aculty members for the 1993-94 aca-
. emic year.

Edward Adams joins the English
Department as a specialist in 19th cen-
tury British literature (Victorian). He
taught for two years as a graduate stu-
dent at Yale before coming to Wash-
ington and Lee. Before earning his
M.A. and Ph.D. from Yale in 1990 and
19%, respectively, Adams earned a
B.A. from Amherst in 1986 and an
M.A. from the University of California
At Berkley in 1988.

Adams factored Washington and
Lee’s size into his decision to teach
here.

\;I went to a small college, and I
wanted to teach at one, and Washing-
ton and Lee was very attractive,” Adams
said.

George Bent taught Italian Renais-
sance Art last spring in Cortona, Italy,
in a program sponsored by the Univer-
sity of Georgia. Bent’s area of spe-
cia y includes medieval and Renais-
sance art. He earned his B.A. from
Oberlin College in 1985 and an M.A.
and Ph.D. from Stanford University in
1988 and 1993. This year he will be
teaching classes in Baroque and Ro-
coco studies. He already admires the
Hoﬁor System here.

“I think (the Honor System) is a
great way for the student body to take
responsibility for its own actions,” he
said.

Paul Brantley is now teaching mu-
' sic for Washington and Lee. He earned
hisﬂ3.M. at the Manhattan School of
1 Music in 1983, and his M.M. from The

Eastman School of Music in 1988.

Before coming to Washington and Lee,

Brantley worked as a free—lance cellist
' in Nashville.

“James Collins will be teaching psy-

' chﬂogy this year. His area of specialty
is in neuroscience, and this year he and
several students will be conducting
‘ experiments involving a genetically-
bred epileptic gerbil. Collins is gather-
ting information on the different inﬂu-
ences of learning history on animals, as
well as working on learning more on
the movement and anxiety components
of epilepsy.
_ Collins received his B.A. and B.S.
degrees from Virginia Polytechnic In-
’, stitute in 1985, and he earned an M.S.
and Ph.D. from the University of Geor-
ia_$ii 1989 and 1993. He is replacing
I’ rofessor Len Garrard, who is on leave
tzor the year.

  
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

it Groups & Clubs

Raise up to $500 - $1500 in less

than a week. Plus Win a trip to
Spring Break ‘94 and get

a FREE T-shirt just for calling.

1-800-950-1039

 fewest:
 STUDENT GROUPS! “
Raise as Much as You
Want in One Week!
$1 OO...$600...$1 sool
Market Applcotions ior Citibank
VISA. MCI. SEARS. AMOCO etc.
Coll for your FREE T-SHIRT ond to
qualfy for FREE TRIP to MTV

SPRING BREAK'94.
Cal 1-soc-932-0523. Old. 66.

     

      
     
   
 
    
   
    

  

 
 

 

UVLGVVIJZ/VLQN

W
261-7292

2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista - (Behind Pizza Hut)

$l.50ANY SHOW

No w Showing

ALADDIN
Rated G
Shows Daily at 5 & 7 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 1 pm.

’ SON-IN-LAW
' Rated PG-13
Shows Daily at 9 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 3 p.m.

    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

F

 

“All You Can Eat”
B0’I'I‘0MLESS BUCKET
€3.00 OF POPCORN $3010

   
 
  
  
 
 
 

   
   
   

Lexington
Shop for

Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories

0.PpogoQQo'

It
Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

0

  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   

     
 
   
  
 

    
 
  

    

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

Collins served as a student investi-
gator for the Virginia Tech judicial
system as an undergraduate.

”I am favorably impressed with the
Honor System here. It is much tighter
than what I have seen before,” he said.

Terri Dadio will coach women’s
basketball and volleyball at Washing-
ton and Lee. She previously coached at
Trenton State College, where she is
currently working on receiving her
Master’s degree. Dadio received her
B.A. from Lafayette College in 1992.

Brandon Dixon will be teaching
computer science this year. He received
his B.S. from Vanderbilt in 1989 and
his MS. and Ph.D. from Princeton in
1990 and 1993. Dixon’s area of exper-
tise is theoretical efficient algorithms.
This area of computer science deals
with trying to find algorithms of prob-
lems posed in theoretical terms and
proving that those outcomes are effi-
cient.

Yuri Dubinin is teaching courses on
Russian foreign policy and the history
of international relations in the Pacific.
From 1978 through 1982 he served as

the cultural officer of the Soviet Em- .

bassy in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and
has since served as a professor, associ-
ate dean, and vice president for inter-
national contact for the Moscow State
Institute of International Relations.

Most recently Dubinin was a
Fulbright Professor at the Fletcher
School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts
University. He has been teaching since
1968.

Michael Evans joins the Mathemat-
ics department as its head. He received
his B.S. from Eastern Illinois Univer-
sity in 1966 and received his M.S. and
Ph.D. from M.I.T. in 1967 and 1970.
After 23 years of teaching at such insti-
tutions as Ohio University and West-
ern Illinois University, Evans said he
was looking for a small institution at
which to teach.

“I heard of Washington and Lee’s
fine reputation and fine math depart-
ment,’-’ he said.

Evans’ interest is in real analysis,
which he describes as “super-duper
calculus.’ Real analysis is used for ev-
erything from physics to computers to
engineering, he said.

Andrew Holliday joins the Com-
merce School and is teaching business
law and principles of economics. He
received his B._A._from Michigan State
University, his M.A. from the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin, and his J.D. (with
honors) from Illinois Institute of
Technology’s Chicago-Kent College
of Law.

Holliday has also recently worked

NEWS

ew professors arrive in

 

PAGE 9

011

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

Twenty new faculty members pose behind Robinson Hall. The new faculty members represent 15 different departments.

as a lawyer on product liability cases in
Chicago, particularly several involv-
ing asbestos and ﬂammable fabrics.

Before coming to Washington and
Lee, Holliday was a professor at East
Carolina University.

“After two years it’s nice to come
back to a place where you don’t feel
like a monitor or a policeman all the
time,” he said.

Peter Hoogenboom now conducts
the University Chorus and teaches voice
to individual students. He earned his
B.A. from Wesleyan University and
his M.M. from Indiana University. In
the interim between college and gradu-
ate school Hoogenboom worked on
musical theater productions.

The Washington and Lee students
made an impression on Hoogenboom
even before he was hired.

“When I came to _see thecampus

 last springihad a positive feeling due

largely to the students and my (future)
colleagues. All of them are very bright,
enjoyable, and personable,” he said.
Linda Hooks is teaching Money and
Banking, as well as Principles of Eco-

 

'OOOoO

‘T’ $1.99 Burritos
IMONDAY NIGHT

 

Pianist Wanted
I Honky Tonk
_ d at Harbs’ -
morning, noon, evening,
& Sunday
Contact Sharon or J‘ohn 464-1900
1

W///7'7//a’iii’

Jazz, Classica
Play for foo

Miiil

brunch

 

'l®\\®

 

 Restaurant

BUFFET

Friday &: Saturday Nights

at LEI Ill Truck Stop

  
  
  
  
     
  

nomics. She has first-hand knowledge
of these areas from her experience as
an economist for the Federal Reserve
Bank in Dallas. There Hooks researched
the banking industry and analyzed the
impact of new bank regulations.

Hooks graduated with a B.A. magna
cum laude from Louisiana State Uni-
versity in 1984 and received her M.A.
and Ph.D. from UCLA in 1986 and
1991.

Hooks believes that Washington and
Lee’s learning environment is unique.

“What is special here is the good
relationship between professors and
students and that definitely adds to the
atmosphere for learning,” she said.

Veronica Hubert-Matthews is teach-
ing French this year. She has previ-
ously taught at the University of Vir-
ginia, where she is currently a doctoral
candidate. She earned her B.S. and
M.A. from the University of Florida in
1984 and 1986.

Lawrence Hurd has been teaching
for over twenty years. He received his
B.A. from Hiram College in 1969 and
his Ph.D. from Syracuse University in

1972. In moving to Washington and
Lee to head the biology department,

Hurd was looking for a “small place '

with high standards and an apprecia-
tion for faculty scholarship.”

Hurd’s area-of specialty is predator-
prey interactions. He is studying insect
systems and the role of predators in
regulating species diversity.

Byron McCane earned his B.A. from
the University of Illinois, his M.Div. at
Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in
1979, his Th.M. from Duke Divinity
School and his Ph.D. from Duke Uni-
versity. His area of specialty is early
Christianity and early Judaism (from

100 B.C. to 400 A.D.).

Albert Murray is a duPont Visiting
Scholar and is teaching a course on the
South in American fiction and a course
on American music. Murray is the au-
thor of /The Omni-Americans (1970)

and South to a Very Old Place. He‘

attended Tuskegee Institute.

Debbie Owens is a Jessie Ball
duPont Visiting Scholar in journalism.
She received her B.A. from the City
University of New York in 1977, her

M.S. from the University of Illinois in
1982 and she is currently a candidate
for a doctorate in mass communica-
tions at the University of Florida.

In addition to teaching, Owens was
a reporter and public affairs correspon-
dent for WCIA-TV in Champagne, Il-
linois, as well as a reporter for the
Chicago Tribune and the New York
Amsterdam.

Erich Uffelman teaches chemistry.
He received his B.S. from Bucknell in
1984 and his Ph.D. from the California
Institute of Technology in 1991. After
receiving his doctorate Uffelman took
a post-doctoral fellowship at Stanford
University.

Vaughn Stanley has been a librarian
for eleven years and now at Washing-
ton and Lee he is responsible for main-
taining the Leybum Library’s collec-
tion of rare books, Robert E. Lee’s
letters, and the university’s archives.

Stanley received his BIA. from
Davidson College in 1973, his M.A.
from Virginia Polytechnic Institute in

1975, and an M.A. from the University A

of Chicago in 1982.

M32.

l’Rl.\'Cll’l.l£S of S()I'Nl)

R If 'I‘ I R Ii

iN\'i«;s'i‘ING_

      
 
 
    

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT

11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.

Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

463-3478

 
 

{NIGHT OWL MUSIC C03
25 S. Jefferson Street - Open 11 a.m. ’til 7 p.m.
Lexington, VA 24450 464.405 Monday-Friday
Between The Palms Sat, 11am, - 5p_m_

&Domino’s Pizza  & 
COMPACT DISCS

CASSETTES & LPS

Everyday Low Prices on New Items
($1.00 Less Than List Price)

Free, Fast Special Order Service

All Items Guaranteed

 

 

C) I 993 Téazbmr lruuranc: ant? Annuily A.r.mci'a!imi/ C 0/kg: Rdfrrmml E4/ui[i't.r F um).

an't afford to save for retirement?

The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $100 each
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $i72,1og* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $219 each month
to reach the same goal.

%

Start planning your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hutline 1 800 842-2888.

for those who shape it!"

Even ifyou're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve—
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest-
merit choices, and a record ofpersonal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not

join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on

your side.

75 years of ensuring the future

 

“/i.r.rumi'Ii_4; an i'n!tr:.;I rat: uf Z00”/o (rallied to TIA/l Rdirrnunl Aniiuititi. Tbu raft Lr uxtd mlzly Ia Jbaw [be rower am) (ﬂed ufcompauriding. Lower ar /Iigbtr I‘t1!(J' would
product very diﬂtrtni nt.ru[!.r. CREF (tI'(t/l£a!{.f are 3Lr!ri6u!:¢7 6y TIA/1-CREF Indie-491141/and Inﬂilulional Srrvirtx.

    

 

:ﬂ/1//:/V’l/ s/’L=j_/M/1/1%
5 1 I2:
: t 
() ‘A7 
y 0 u

DO YOU EN or ,  
SHOOTING SKEET? 

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.

   
   

  
   

WAT o'u> I D?

C 0 Carryout Available 11 S Jefferson St A61 : Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting Sport. ,
. ' ' ' 1 - .

Llve Bands on Thursda S \\o\D IEPMO 0 ‘_ , Back ard skeet isf n b ui.o:, ~g u _ ol|i- ._ 5

u. 3’ .96 .7. x _ “,5 M i .

and Frida s .
b e 3' At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all .~
 _2595 angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting ,.

A;  MN MW To REL Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot

       

   

 
   
    

  
 
    

      
    

 

V  in m=.z_\zF.S_ae vzememaezeb L0 enjoy a round.
1-  ;.  7_ *3:*;:“;:“;:ff"°‘ Call for a free brochure 463-1800
i   :  -. A cM2w°~I. Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays
g THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L. T-SHIRTS, SWEATS \ L
O 1‘ HATS AND OTHER W&L. SPORTWEAR 
LEX|N6TON'S ONLY SOURCE FOR TEVA8 AND NERRILL BOOTS rot! MORE 'NFoRMATio~ mu. ' : > , V ' L p’
t e is w. vmsmuciou :1. we no MAIL ORDER! 1.900-552.9.-Lg * I A » ‘
P 0 LEXINGTON 703 464-3000 7{]m_WmWMM

a 11 Valley True ‘I/afue H
C 0 Hardware, Paint, and Related Items , 3» .,"‘L _ ~

I I I . -  L T "3 T i:

u 1 d _ V  r A   2.3. ‘Q ;-. , .;.r  I ’ 3,: j l
Open Mo .- S t. 8:30 . .- 6 . . S . 1-5 . . \ .  " ’ /.. ' T E

E E. NelsonnSt., iexingxgnm p m UH463-zlisnsl  1, ,.  ~._~m ‘3

a.  »'/rr;«i..<<=*"i': ‘ L 9

. Septemb .. Sunndaty Sp eial .

1 Rent 1 Video, Pay 1/2 price for a second. New ' eleases included. ‘ E

O O O 0

§ Gomaies, Gomsies, @’0lIlIlGS @ @ @ -

; Complete selection of comics arriving weekly. All major companies & E
u . independents in stock. We have collector’s editions & newsstand. ’ E

- E -
1 II Rock & Roll, Novelty, Sports, and Comic book character in stock. [E
a b During September -- $3.00 off any T—Shirt. T

p E.
0. 11 t Lange Selection 3
1 t . 115WNebm3_ Buy any 2 CD ’s or cassette ’s & receive $2.00 off or a free cassingle of your, [F
' I
choice 5
J!‘
a   ETCOIIIC LO L B l... R.
up 

For 96 years the W&Lcommunity has looked
to The Ring-tum Phi for the latest news,-  

opinions, sports and campus coverage..
Be a part of an evolving tradition. 

Subscribe to the Phi. "

 

s/ Receive 29 issues and 4 special issues of
The Ring-tum Phi at your home every week
for only $30 a year. The Phi is mailed the day

of publication Without exception.
V To subscribe, fill in the information on the

right and enclose with a check for $30 made
payable to The Ring-tum Phi. Send payment

to: _ . _ ZTelephone number
The Ring-tum Phi, P. O. Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450 3,‘

§Yes, start my subscription immediately!
lwant to keep up with life at W&L.

Name
Address

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

oooooooooooooooooooooooco
uooooooooooooooooumuooooooocoooooo
K NV_'_,,_..4 .4.—,»»-~— 

ooooooooooooooooonocooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo0ooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

9
PAGE 11

 

Harrisreeter  
MEANS LOW PRICES

 

Soccer loses in overtime

REDUCED PRICE
U.S.D.A. CHOICE

LONDON

 

  
 
 

 

 TEA ET

WHOLE

 

TYSON-HOLLY FA 2‘ E

  

FRYERS............m.

 

 

CRISP
CUCUMBERS

  
  

    
 
  
  
 
  

  
  
  

 

. , E‘¢‘'ﬁ'?)-‘3.

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

99

I2 PK.
I2 OZ. CANS

PEPSI
C

    
 

REDUCED
PRICE

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

  

By RANSON JAMES
Phi Contributing Writer

The men’s soccer team began its
season on a sour note last weekend,
dropping its opening two games. The
Generals fell in a dramatic 5-3 over-
time loss Saturday to Centre College,
and then suffered a 5-0 blanking at the
hands of Transylvania on Sunday.

“We knew it was going to be tough
playing two games on the opening
weekend, but we feel like we learned
some good Iessons,” said Coach Rolf
Piranian.

With the loss of four valuable start-
ers to graduation, the Generals figured
this season to be a rebuilding one.
Piranian instituted a zone defense. The
zone is not commonly used, but can be
effective when played correctly.

Against Centre, ranked fourth in the
southeast, the Generals employed the
new defense and it proved itself fairly
well. After falling behind 2-0, senior
Tim McCarthy had a highlight—ﬁlm
goal, rocketing a 25-yard volley into

with some momentum, sophomore J eb
Wofford punched in a six-yard kick set
up by an indirect play. Moments later,
Wofford struck again, this time with an
assist from sophomore Scott Willard.
Late in the second half, Centre tied the
game on a penalty kick, caused by a
controversial foul. Overtime was too
much for the Generals as Centre scored
two goals to claim the victory.

Tri-captains John Robinson, Alan
Christensen, and Dan Rhodes all played
well. Newcomers Wofford, keeper Matt
Mazzarelli, and defenseman Billy
Ziegler showed great promise. But
Piranian was not totally satisfied with
his team’s play.

“We didn’t play as well as I think
we should. We learned some things
and will try to make adjustments this
week,” said Piranian.

The Generals host the first ever
W&L Soccer Classic this weekend.
Hampden-Sydney, Juanita, and pow-
erhouse Frostburg State are scheduled
for the tournament.

Saturday’s game will be broadcast

 

:11.»

the upper right-hand comer. Playing on WLUR.

   

Schaeffer leads cross country

Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer surpassed every ex-
pectation Sept. 11 by not only routing a field of 204 at the
Lebanon Valley Invitational, but beating the next runner by
51 seconds, setting a course record by 25 seconds, and
beginning her season with an unexpected 19:01.

“It was a good way to begin the season,” said Schaeffer.
“I felt really good; I was excited. The whole team did really
well.” ‘

With an overall place of fifth in a field of 22 teams, the
team can’t complain. Backup for Schaeffer was provided
by the remaining members of the Generals’ triumvirate,
sophomore Amy Mears, 16th, and junior Kim Herring,
28th.

“We didn’t really have any clear expectations for the
meet; we needed to do either a time trial or a race, and I felt
a race would be more fun,” said coach Jim Phemister.

As a warm-up, early-season race, the Generals can’t
complain. The men slid in just under the women's standard,
placing sixth in a 26~team field with solid performances by
four athletes.

Sophomore Tom Fink placed 34th with a time of 28: 19,

, followed by three Generals also under the 29-minute mark:
sophomores Jeff Zeiger, 28:28 and Brad Paye, 28:41; and

’ freshman Alvin Townley, 28:54.

Tomorrow the Generals head to Mary Washington Col-
lege for a tri-meet with MWC and Shephard College.

J ockShorts

Volleyball debuts coach with
two-game Winning streak

New beginnings are not always painful.

The Washington and Lee volleyball team proved that
last week as it opened the 1993 season with two solid wins
over Christopher Newport and Marymount, the same week-
end it was debuting coach Terri Dadio and freshmen Eliza-
beth Bahn and Virginia Yoerg.

Bahn and Yoerg combined for 18 blocks as the Generals
swept Christopher Newport 15-9, 15-4, 15-3 and were
forced to play five games to defeat Marymount.

Senior co-captain Tara Burns amassed 15 kills over the
weekend, leading the Generals to their first two-win sea-
son—opening streak since 1988. (W&L ﬁnished 16-11 that
year.)

Other bright spots came from sophomore Kelly Horan,
who won 13 points on her serve against Christopher New-
port, and sophomore Cheryl Taurassi had 42 assists.

Swimmers earn academic honors

1993 Washington and Lee graduate Claire Dudley was
named to the Academic All-American Division III swim-
ming team after earning a grade point average of 3.668 in
Chemistry and achieving All-American status in the 200-
meter breaststroke. ‘ '“"" “‘"’  " i”

The women‘s swimming team, whose collective GPA
was 3.280, was ranked tenth in the academic listings of the
Collegiate Swim Coaches Association.

HARRI TEETER... LOW PRICESALL DAY, EVERY DAY

  

.$ELECTED VARIETIES

   

,1 .
5.5-6 OZ.

   

EAGLE rr-rms
ROTATO cmps

   

 

VALUABLE COUPON

 

  

BUY ONE I5 OZ. KELLOGG'$

. FROOT LOOPS
AND GET ONE FREE

   

I WithA I0.

 

   

I This Cou Ma§Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
00 inimum Purchase. OIIer Good Sept. I5,Thru Sept. 2l, I993.

  

3929
, —"_—=n_—_
i
‘I u .____
um
D
“'::—= PLU 2572
.'i'.——— GROCERY
‘xi
“E
III

  

 

COUPON
VALUE
§3.2l

VALUABLE COUPON
BUY ONE 16 OZ.

it

     
  
  
   

‘AND GET ONE FREE

 
         

With A 10
3932

  

  
 

Harris Teeter

\

  
     
 

l. .0

 

    

:9.
r:

PLU 2482
GROCERY

couPoN I I
VALUE _j___.
M I -———-
 !

I
IOK TIIIRST OUENCIIER I

, This Cou Ma Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
00 Nlinimum Purchase. Otter Good Sept. I5, Thru Sept. 2l , I993. I

1 -o o
' rrces Effective Through September 2 I, I 993
. ces In This Ad Eltective Wednesday, September I5 Throu I
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None %oId To Dealers. We Gladiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

Tuesday, ptember 21 I993.ln

P/R OR AD BAG

FOLGERS

I69
COFFEE ................ .. 13 oz.
LIQUID

YES , 299
DETERGENT. ......... ..96 oz.

6 PK. I2 OZ. CANS

PC SOFT
DRINKS ............................ ..

O
7éls”‘EI&‘E“iiM I 99
SANDWICHES ........ .. 12 CT.

VALUABLE COUPON

BUY ONE I6 OZ.

I
IIT COFFEE CREAMERI
AND GET ONE FREE I

This Cou n MaL‘Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
With A l0.00 inimum Purchase. OI‘Ier Good Sept. 15, Thru Sept. 2I , I993. I

   

 

D

-———— I
I3

D

U

"-' PLU 2480 I
E . GROCERY
§__-""' c9,gIQ~

HEIIISTBBIBI I49

- VALUABLE COUPON

| BUY our 40 oz. prrsn PAN CREAMY PEANUT sum |

I AND GET ONE 24 OZ. LOAF I
I III‘ KING IIIIN BREAD FREE I

This Cou n Ma Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
I With A I0.00 inimum Purchase. OIIer Good Sept. I5 Thru Sept. 2l, I993. I

    

 

IBIIED DDDDIJ U

 

Hanlsmeter

OUPON I
I—""""' VALUE 6
m 70¢ I

Lexington Stores

   

  l

III
, 4-...-
ll

  
 

    
 
     

 . ._ ’ i _.__,_.=___
I tumult!!! .....=._.::_

  
 
     
    
    
  

jééj 1 — imj

All those interested in playing
Mews [Lacrosse

Please Contact Coach
Jim Stagnitta at  
463-8678
or
Doremus Gymnasium #525

 
     
 

  

Last Week:
FB—Emory&Henry 36, W&L 6

VB—def. Chris. Newport, Marymount
WP—2-2 at W&L Classic
XC—at Lebanon; W—5th, M—6th

PAGE 12

S

PORTS  

Cilia itting-tum iﬂlii

This Week:

VB—W&L Invit. 09/ 17-18
MSoc—W&L Classic 09/ 1 7-18
WP—at Eastern Tourn. 09/ 17-18 ,
XC—at Mary Washington 09/17

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

SEPTEMBER 17, 199

Where to go
Mon. night?

Sarah on Sports
by Sarah Gilbert

It isjust me or is their a
dearth of places to watch
Monday night football?

Perhaps the most popu-
lar regularly broadcast
sporting event on televi-
sion (I am, of course, not
accountingfortheregional
fascination with those boys
of summer, that’sright, the
ever-so-wonderfulAtlanta
Braves), the game has been
perverted and prostituted
so many times that it has
become tradition to capi-
talize on this arbitrarily-
chosen, often mediocre
football game.

 

Even on nights that the 7. -
mighty Indianapolis Colts’ q

(my sources from Indiana

tell me that Colts is really 7

an acronym for Count On
Losing This Sunday) face
some team akin to the At-
lanta Falcons (a subject for
another column in another
paper, perhaps: Isn’t it a
shame that the Braves be-
came decent a few years
back and ruined the fine
tradition of Atlanta’s pro-

fessional sporting teams?) ’

fine Lexingtonians every-

where flock to the Palms, a ‘

fraternity house, the Gra-
ham-Lees TV room, or
some other television
where the audience is
largely male and the beer is
cold and watch lots and
lots of commercials and ex-
players who should have
retired from the sporting
world entirely comment-
ing on the brief interludes
of football.

This topic came to the

forefront of the Ring-tumvl

Phi sports mind because,
continuing in the fine tra-

dition, the Raven and ,

Crown Pub (previously
closed on Mondays) has
just unveiled its own Mon-
day night football promo.
The eating establishment
will now be open from
8pm—12midnight on Mon-
days so diehards who have
exhausted every other
venue in town for viewing
the “big” game will have a
new hang-out. Not only a
new hang-out, but one
which serves basmati rice

with its dinner entrees.

(This is a good thing. Re-
ally. See for yourself.)

Yes, WREL(That’s w-; 
Robert-E.-Lee) has been

known to broadcast from
the Palms on a Monday
night. Good fun, good
friends, good football?

Sometimes. If all of one’s 
friends can agree on which . '
good fun place to Watch. 1
their Monday night big ’
game, one is a very lucky ’ ‘

person. I mean it.

Perhaps the full possi— if

biliti-° of -‘“'< Monday
night thing have not b. ..
explored. I won<3:i' how
successful football at
Hull’s drive-in would be?
Of course, seeing a foot-
ball game several months
after its initial release just
doesift have the same fla-

vor. But the second feature 3

has always been half-price.

Another little theatre
whose full potential has not
yet been met is the Trouba-
dour Cinema. Perhaps this
previously untouched big-
screen (at least, in terms of
sports)couldbe utilizedfor
a great night of football.

And isn’t the General
Headquarters now avail-
able on previously-spoken-
for weeknights?

Don’t get me wrong. I
love Monday night foot-
ball as much as the next
(fill in your non-gender-
specific pronoun of prefer-
ence). I just believe that
it’sbeenalittle...well...ex-
ploited.

Do try out the new Mon-
day nights at the Raven and
Crown, and do try the
Basmati rice. It’s really
excellent. Breakfast is
served all hours, and un-
like Lee-Hi, you don’t have
to fight the truckers for a
parking spot.

lt’s almost Monday
night....doyouknowwhere
your football is?

Water polo splits four in Classic

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

In Washington and Lee water
polo, the question of the week is:
who should we give top billing?
The brilliant young talent who
surprises everyone with a heck
of a tournament weekend, or the
seasoned star who shows top form
to lead his team to a nail—biting
overtime victory?

Thankfully, sportswriters can
always fall back on the alphabet.
Senior Greg Golub scored 15
goals in the W&L Fall Classic
last weekend as the Generals won
two and lost two games against
four of the top East Coast teams.
Freshman James Silberstein con-
tributed a mere 12 goals to the
W&L cause.

Before you call Guiness, it
must be admitted that the Gener-
als scored a total of 61 goals over
the weekend. In this situation,
Golub scored only 25 percent of
the total; Silberstein, 20.

Washington and Lee dropped
two games, to Johns Hopkins,
13-15, and to Richmond, 12-17,
before striking out in their true

Women’s soccer road trips;
Wins, loses games in Atlanta

form, annihilating Queens 21-
10. Silberstein scored six goals
and four assists in that effort.

The game and the perfor-
mance of the weekend were both
saved for the final match—up,
Washington and Lee versus
Villanova on Sept. 12. Golub
scored four of the Generals’ final
five goals in regulation and then
came back strong with two more
in overtime to lead the squad to a
15-13 victory.

In goal, sophomore Dane
Merkel and junior David Silvester
combined for 46 saves over the
weekend.

Tomorrow, W&L treks to
Richmond to face Bucknell, Slip-
pery Rock, and Villanova for an
Eastern Water Polo Association
tournament. The trip of the year
comes next weekend, however,
as the Generals head for
Claremont, Calif.

Next week’s road trip will be
a homecoming for coach Page.
Remillard; several team mem-
bers hail from California, as well,
notably Merkel (San Diego) and
Golub (Menlo Park). Perhaps the
Generals have a vested interest
in the state?

Senior Greg Golub, who scored 15 goals over the weekend, searches for an open teammate in a water polo

game. The Generals won two and lost two in the W&L Fall Classic Sept. 11-12.

File pﬁoto

 

 

straight post season appearance
are high. Just in case there were

Away Games

Weekend sports update

. I
In the American league,
there are more teams in pen-

  

by Stephen Williard

Welcome to the newest ad-
dition to the Phi. Hopefully,
this column will serve those
die-hard, pain-in-the-butt
sports fans (you know, the ones
who steal the television for
Braves games and Monday
Night Football). In any case,
may good taste prevail (most
of the time) and enjoy!

First on the agenda for this
week is the Atlanta Braves’
late season charge. Through
their last 34 games, the Bravos
have 28 wins. Combined with
the Giants epic choke job (8

 

any doubts, the Braves re-
sponded to a 6-2 ninth inning
deficit Wednesday night with a
5 spot capped off by a three-
run, game-winning, Ron Gant
homer.

Despite Atlanta’s mecha-
nized demolition of foes, ques-
tions remain, not just about the
Braves, but about the National
League in general. Even though
the Braves, Giants, and Phillies
still have the three best records
in baseball, the competition is
beyond suspect. Winning 100
or more games is rather easy
when you play triple-A teams
(the San Diego Padres), the Mets

nant races. Hence, teams are
still going with their best ev-
ery night (meaning I still rec-
ognize the players in the suit-
ing line-up). Don’t let the
records fool you—the National
League entry is not about to
cake walk through the series
this year.

—In other news, what hap-
pened at the U.S. Open? V611
somebody tell me where this
Pioline kid came from? With
seeded players dropping like
bad guys in an Eastwood ﬂick,
this year’s Open began to re-
semble a who’s who of tennis

 

consecutive losses as of
Wednesday), hopes for a third

(need I say more?), and expan-
sion teams.

Washington and Lee women’s soccer split its matches last weekend, against Agnes
Scott (3-0) and Emory (0-4). Goals in the Agnes Scott match were scored by senior
Angie Carrington, junior,,Anne Spruill and freshman Michelle Bauman. Most re-
cently, the Generals played at Liberty Hall Fields Sept. 16.

File photo

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Asst. Sports Editor

touchdown.

. Despite a 36-6 loss to the Wasps of Emory and

Volleyball

Football

Water Polo
Women’s Soccer
Men’s X-Country
Women’s X-Country0-O

Men’s Soccer

W&L Team Records

2-0
2-2
1-1
0-0

0-1
0-2

Henry this past weekend, the Washington and Lee
football team has a number of bright spots on
which to build.

The Generals hurt themselves in many cases
during the game. The majority of the Emory and
Henry offensive attack was based on W&L mis-
cues. The Wasps capitalized with a fumble recov-

. _ against Centre.
cry for a touchdown and four scoring drives origi-

1.000

wannabes. Pete Sampras vsgs
more than willing to take ad-
vantage of the carnage, cruis-
ing to the title and a number
one ranking.

-Parting Shots-

Hey Buffalo fans! You
won! After last weekenrxs
edging of the Dallas Cow-
boys, I’m sure everyone has
forgotten last year (52-17) and
that memorable THREE
game losing streak in the ig
one. Not even Minnesota
Denver could do that. (1

A note to Barry Bontﬁz,
Don’t worry, October is not
your month anyway. Way to
go Mr. June! You just started
your standard slide a little
early this year.

After Chinese women dis-
tance runners set a string of
records last week, numerous
accusations of blood doping
and steroid use have been
denied my China’s coach Ma
Junren. Ma cites highly ad-
vanced training techniques.
That has about the same rirg
of truth as the repeated assur-
ances of boxing promoters
that the Chavez—Whitaker
fight was not fixed. OK, what-
ever.

I
I
I
I

Wasps embarrass Generals

ered in the end zone by an E&H receiver -for a

The pressure on the W&L defense proved t be
too much, however. Though the Generals gavé) up
only 284 yards of offense to E&H, the Wasps wore
down the defense with their numerous drives from
deep in W&L territory.

Considering the Wasp’s number-10 national
ranking, the Generals performed admirably. With
a week off to rest and work out the kinks, the W&L
squad should be well prepared for its home m9tch

nating inside the W&L 30-yard line. Also instru-
t l t bl k d t d ' ht t — '
. 5  tr:::r]i(a;a:vkeSre wo oc e pun s an eig quar er  
The news was not all bad, however. Senior Tom
5 O 0 Mason rushed for 90 yards on 20 carries and caught School Record
. 4 passes for 35 yards with a soft cast on his left ,
hand. Quarterbacks Matt Reedy and Brooks Fischer
0 O 0 turned in solid performances. Reedy completed 8 Emory & Henry 2'0
- passes in 17 attempts for 91 yards against one Hampden—Sydney 1-0
interception. Fischer was 8 for 15 for 90 yards and Bri d ewater 0 1
O O 0 one touchdown toss to James Urban. g '
' The score was deceiving for the W&L defense, Randolph-Macon 0- 1.
which played a solid game on their side of the ball Guﬂford 0_2
O 0 O as well. Just as the offensive squad suffered from .
' tough breaks, the defense endured its share of bad Washlngton & Lee 0‘1

luck. Early in the game Lady Luck set the tone
when Washington and Lee safety Marc Newman
forced a Wasp fumble only to see the ball recov-

.000

 

