  

Mostlytfcloudy with a

   LOWS
50s..,MostIy V

6 ‘d3'f.:,Ft,iday.with a

6. 311613065/3 9f.m°1'ni¥1g
 around 60.

   

    
  
  
 

 

Pink Floyds rings in with

The Division Bell.
How does it sound?

Hampden-Sydney defeats

W&L Baseball, 14-6

he ‘ﬂing-tum lﬁlri  

0
VOLUME 93, NO. 25

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Apart. 22, 1994

Police clear only rape suspect

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

‘I

The 21-year-old woman who re-
ported she was raped in Graham-Lees
dormitory last month was unable to
identify the only suspect in the investi-
gation April 13, said Lexington Police
Chief Bruce Beard.

.Lexington police investigators trav-
eled out of Virginia April 12-13 to
pursue leads in the case and to attempt
to ﬁnd the suspect that was identified
by police two days after the March

25 incident.

However, the woman could not posi-
tively identify the suspect.

“The person has been cleared,” said
Chief Beard. “However, the incident is
still active.”

At 4:30 p.m. Thursday, Beard said
police had no other suspects or pos-
sible leads.

He said it was possible that the man
 the perpetrator, but without a posi-
tive identification, police could not
charge the man in the incident.

After the woman reported the as-
sault, she gave a detailed description of

the room in which the incident oc-
curred and the man who allegedly com-
mitted the assault.

Police said her detailed description
helped them to immediately identify
the suspect and the scene of the inci-
dent.

The woman, who is not a Virginia
resident and is no longer in Lexington,
said she was raped in a room in the ﬁrst
ﬂoor of Graham-Lees dormitory by a
man who was not a Washington and
Lee student.

The woman reported she was in the

dormitory selling magazine subscrip-

tions, when the man, who was alleg-
edly visiting the campus, asked her to
come into the room and then assaulted
and raped her.

According to Mike Young, director
of W&L security, university policies
do not allow magazine sales in univer-
sity housing.

The woman went to the University
center after the alleged assault, where
she met two Washington and Lee stu-
dents, who took her to security and
called the police.

She was then questioned by the po-
lice and W&L security before being

Who needs a spring term PE? I

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ringtum Phi 0

taken to Stonewall Jackson Hospital
for a series of tests.

The woman still wants to press
charges, according to police. Sgt. E.W.
Straub says the woman wants to con-
tinue to pursue the case.

“She wishes to press charges as
soon as we arrest whoever is respon-
sible,” said Straub.

Police say they have no leads but
they will continue the investigation as
long as possible.

“I assure you that we’re not going to
give up on this case,” said Beard. “We
will continue to pursue any leads we

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Associate Editor

Sunday’s Child store.

cided to appeal.”

ceny charge.

Washington and Lee sophomore Mary Flowers
was convicted of one count of petty larceny (theft)
Tuesday. Flowers’ attorney, David Natkin, immedi-
ately filed an appeal of the verdict.

General District Court Judge Joseph E. Hess
sentenced,F_l_owers to two days in jail, as well as a
$25 fine, after convicting her of stealing two pack-
ages of glow-in-the-dark star stickers and a laser-
disk, spinning top from the

Sunday’s Child owner Lucia
Owens was pleased with the guilty
verdict, but not with the appeal.

“We’re very glad to hear it,”
Owens said. “I thought it would
be over [now], but they have de-

Natkin repeated his belief that
his client is innocent of the lar-

“We maintain her [Flowers’]

Spring term means plenty of activity for these freshmen, following Washington and Lee
. tradition by spending all of their waking hours in the sun. But the weather will take a colder
turn this weekend, so don’t forget where you put those winter coats.

absolute innocence, and we look
forward to clearing her name,”
Natkin said.

Throughout the case Flowers
has maintained that she was sick
in the room on the day of the theft,

and did not steal the items from Sunday’s Child. She
says that she is a victim of mistaken identity.

In previous statements Sunday’s Child employee
Leslie Hoke said that when the store’s security
system went off as a woman left the store, she asked
to check the woman’s coat. She says the woman then

 

Flowers

come across.”

Young told thePhi that anyone who
has information about the alleged as-
sault should -call Washington and Lee
security at 463-8427 or Lexington po-
lice at 463-2112.

Editor ’s Note: The policy of The
Ring-tum Phi when reporting rape
cases is to withhold the names of both
the accuser and the accused until after
a trial. '

If the accused is found guilty the
name will then be published. In this
case, neither name has been released
by the police or security.

‘ Flowers convicted,
but appeals verdict

Hoke says the woman identified herself as “Mary
Stuart,” and said she was 16 years old.

As Hoke called the police, the woman ﬂed the
store and Owens chased her until she lost her near
St. Patrick’s Church.

Owens called the local high schools asking for
Mary Stuart, but was told there was no student by
that name. Owens then received a call from a W&L
student, who wished to remain anonymous, who
said she had witnessed what had happened. She
identiﬁed Flowers, and Owens and Hoke then iden-
tified Flowers from old newspaper photos as the
person who had been in the store.

Flowers’ appeal is based on a
violation_of due process; she claims
that a Sunday’s Child employee was
shown her picture before she saw a
line-up of women, which included
Flowers.

In previous statements Flowers
said she was in her room the whole
day, sick, and studying for an exam
and could not have been at
Sunday’s Child.

“The fact is that it r.sts on what
somebody says about me. It’s my
word against theirs,” she said.

When contacted after the ver-
dict, Flowers said she had been ad-
vised by her attorney not to make
any statements.

Flowers’ roommate Colleen Thompson testified

Committee rejects Peck’s appeal

P'rofessor says her “views were just too radical for the good ole boys.”

By NANCY PAVLOVIC
Special to the Phi

Eight months after not renew-
ing her contract, four months af-
ter her petition was filed, and

thirty-two days after the

President’s Advisory Commit-
tee announced its decision, En-
glish Professor Demaree Peck
ﬁryilly knew where she stood: in
the cold. .

“I realize that the wagons have
been drawn into a circle and as
much as I would like to continue

 

ations by faculty who had visited
her class, 21 letters which were
solicited by the department from
111 former students, as well as
three published articles and sev-
eral chapters from her book on
Willa Cather.

Peck decided to appeal the
decision after learning the Ameri-
can Association of University
Professors, the AAUP, stipulates

» a committee composed of elected

faculty members should hear case
in which a “faculty member chal-

lenges negative decisions be- ‘

cause of inadequate consideration

teaching at Wash- or more
ington and Lee, I substantial
re lizethatwillnot . consider-
b — ssibleby pur— ation Such
suing any internal as discrimi-
appeals,” Peck nation or
said. denial of
Peck, who academic
joined the faculty freedom.”
in 1988 as an in- T h 8
stiQictorinEnglish, President’s
began a four-year Advisory
probationary pe- Committee
riod for a tenure was chosen
track position’ in to hear the
the department the peck appeal since
following fall. it most

Cﬁididates for a tenured posi-
tion must complete a six—year
probationary period before be-
ing considered. Peck would have
been considered for a tenured
position in 1994-95.

However. the English depart-
mtnt decided May 14, 1993 to
cut short her probationary period
after reviewing a portfolio of
materials which included evalu-

closely resembles the committee

- suggested by AAUP guidelines.

The committee, composed of six
elected faculty members, reached
a decision in the case January 7.
The committee’s decision was
two-fold;while claiming the pro-
cess was not inadequate, they
also unanimously recommended
the English department explain
fully their decision to not renew

Peck’s contract to her. This an-
nouncement left both the English
department and Peck claiming
partial victories.

“Theoretically when the ad-
visory committee told the En-
glish department it had to give
me an explanation, the appeals
process could ‘still be going on,”
Peck said. “I could have asked
for reconsideration again.”

However, a week after the
committee’s decision was an-
nounced, Peck received a letter
from President John D. Wilson.
The letter, sent to her and her
legal counsel, “basically sup-
ported he English department’s
decision.” Peck said she was
surprised to receive the letter and
could not understand “on what
basis he was agreeing with the
English department since they
had not written anything.”

“The letter certainly deterio-
rated my belief in the appeals
process,” she said. “It made it
appear that it was a foregone
conclusion that the English de-
partment would be vindicated.”

Peck said the letter from Wil-
son rejected any proposals for
compromise and claimed “the
decision was fairly arrived at and
that my reappointment would not
be in the best interest of the uni-
versity or the students.”

“My voice and academic free-
dom have been violated,” Peck
said. “It seems my views were
just too radical for the good ole
boys at Washington and Lee and
that is why I have been exiled
from the kingdom.”

It would be more than3weeks
before she would hear from the
English department. Aletter from
the department, explaining the
reasons for her dismissal, arrived
on Feb. 8. Peck however was not
satisfied with the letter’s expla-
nation. ’

“It reads as an unconvincing
laundry list of vague and inco-
herent assertions without any
documented factual details, sup-
port, or apparent source,” she
said. “It is_ evident that the letter
is designed to distract from the
real reasons which are too preju-
dicial to be stated directly.”

English department head
Edwin D. Craun refused to dis-
cuss the contents of the letter or
reasons for Peck’s dismissal.

“The reasons were to be given
to her,” he said. Even the advi-
sory committee, the dean [John
W. Elrod] and the president have
not seen them. This is a private
personnel matter.”

All eight members of the En-
glish department had signed the
letter sent to Peck, Craun said but
would not comment further cit-
ing the possibility for breach of
confidentiality. English profes-
sor Robert Huntley raised con-
cerns about the manner in which
confidentiality has been used.

“The difficulty with the edict
of confidentiality is that it gets in
the way of another equally im-
portant principle, that of account-
ability,” he said.

I» See PECK page 5

admitted to stealing the items and she offered to pay
for them. Hoke then called Owens, who arrived
shortly afterwards.

V appeal.

at the trial and says she will be a part of the appeal
process.
“I still believe she is innocent,” Thompson said.
Executive Committee President Kevin Webb
declined to comment about the possible honor vio-
lation ramifications of Flowers’ conviction and

Flowers’ appeal is scheduled to be heard in

Lexington Circuit Court on May 25.

Winter Term GPAS

Chi-O
Lambda Chi
KA

All Sorority
Theta

All Women
Kappa

Pi Beta Phi
Non-Sorority
' PiKA
All Students
Sig Ep

Chi Psi
Non-Fratemity
Pi Kappa Phi
Phi Delt

All Men

All Fraternity
Kappa Sig
SAE

Phi Psi

FIJI

Sigma Chi
Sigma Nu
Phi Kap
Beta

Delt

0.5 1 1.5

3.206
3.

.135

3.117
3. 09

3 .086
3.067
3.05

988

963
93 1

928
904

2.5 3 3.5

PC

 

PAGE 2

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World  

Israeli militia attacked in
South Lebanon, killing 4

Muslim guerrillas attacked Israeli militia in South Leba-
non Wednesday. The battles killed three Lebanese villages

and wounded four. Hezbollah and allied Palestinian groups
have vowed the peace process between Israel and Palestine.

Israel, PLO agree to power

transfer in Gaza, Jericho

Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization agreed
Wednesday to transfer power of the Gaza Strip and Jericho to
Palestinians. The agreement follows six months of talks
between Israel and Palestine. Leaders of both nations feel the
agreement marks the end of the peace process.

Serbs attack Gorazde, despite
truce, killing 44 people

Bosnian Serbs shelled a Gorazde hospital Wednesday.
The Serbs defied the United Nations by shelling Gorazde
after promising truces. At least 44 people were killed
Wednesday. Serb leaders claim they were responding to
Muslim attacks from Gorazde. 1

North Korea may allow nuclear
inspectors to visit reactor

North Korea may be‘ r’eady;W'ithinfweeks to remdve‘ pluto-
nium from its nuclear ieactor. ' The plutonium would be
enough to build four or five nuclear weapons. North Korea
has suggested it will permit international inspectors to moni-
tor the refueling so there is no diversion of plutonium fuel that
could go to build nuclear weapons.

The Nation

Rodney King awarded $3.8
million in police settlement

Jurors ordered the city of Los Angeles to pay Rodney King
$3.8 million in compensatory damages Tuesday. The dam-
ages include medical bills, pain and suffering, and the loss of
earnings from King’s 1991 beating by four police officers.
Starting Thursday, the jury will decide whether the police-
men involved should be ordered to pay punitive damages.

Nixon suffers stroke, partially
paralyzed and unable to speak

Former President Richard Nixon suffered a stroke Mon-
day that has left him partially paralyzed and unable to speak.
The New York hospital where Nixon is being treated has
been inundated with phone calls and well wishes from
American citizens and heads of state. Nixon has not been put
on a respirator, in accordance with his instructions.

Endeavour rerouted to landing
in Mojave Desert, California

Bad weather at Cape Canaveral, Florida, forced a detour
for the space shuttle Endeavour. The shuttle landed instead
in the Mojave Desert. The crew, over the 11-day ﬂight,
mapped 12% of the Earth’s surface. The data will be used to
create three-dimensional maps.

Testimony begins in Kevorkian
assisted-suicide trial

Testimony began Thursday in the Jack Kevorkian trial.
Kevorkian is charged with violating the ban on assisted
suicide in Michigan when he helped a man with Lou Gehrig’s
disease die last August. The retired pathologist has assisted
20 deaths since 1990, but this is the first for which he has
stood trial.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Emily Baker.

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Associate Editor

Two Virginia Military Institute ca- .

dets were arrested April 15 on one charge
of grand larceny each. The alleged theft
occurred in Blacksburg on April 11.

Cadets Erik Reynolds and Michael
Cammarasana were arrested on VMI
property by Lexington police and were
later released on a personal recogni-
zance bond, according to VMI Director
of Public Relations Mike Strickler.

Lt. Walter Mosby of the Blacksburg
Police Department said that the two

Cadets arrested, charged in theft

cadets were seen carrying a large
speaker box through a municipal park-
ing lot in downtown Blacksburg. Mosby
said that the two put down the object
when they saw the police.

According to" the police report, of-
ﬁcers then questioned the cadets about
where the speaker came from. The ca-
dets were released when the police
could not conclude if the speaker had
been stolen.

After the cadets had left, the police
determined that the speaker had been
taken from a car parked in the parking
lot. Police then obtained warrants for
the cadets’ arrest.

If convicted of the felony charges,

.3

the cadets face not less than one year
but not more than 20 in prison, or at the
discretion of the judge and jury a term
not exceeding 12 months in prison and
not more than a $2,500 fine.

Both cadets declined to comment
on the charges against them.

According to Strickler, if convicted,
the cadets could face punishment from
VMI also.

“If they were to be convicted, it is a
good chance that their cadetship would
be subject to termination,” Strickler
said. The cadets could resign from VMI,
be dismissed by the VMI honor court,
or be dismissed by VMI Superinten-
dent Gen. John W. Knapp.

Court justice to spend
week at law school

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Elizabeth B. Lacy, the first woman named to the

Gunn to
speak on
economics

in- _ ,'1

     
    
   
   
    
  
   
 
  

Both Reynolds and CammarOsan"1"7

are scheduled to appear in court 0
June 2.

In other VMI news, former cade
Michael Larry Parker was found guilt’
last Friday of attempted voluntary m = .
slaughter. »

Parker had brandished a weafmn ti
scare cadet Kevin David Price, at
party at an apartment above Domino’
pizza last July.

Partygoers, including Price, ha‘
taunted Parker during the party, and h
reacted by pulling out a .38 calibe
pistol and threatening to shoot Pgice.

Parker faces a sentence of up to fiv
years in prison and a $2,500 ﬁne.

 

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Professor John M. Gunn will deliver th

  
  

Virginia Supreme Court, will be judge-in—residence
at the law school for the week beginning Monday,
April 18.

During her residency at W&L, Justice Lacy will
meet with students in the law courses of Jurispru-
dence, The Lawyer’s Role, Criminal Procedure,
Evidence, and other classes at the law school.

Justice Lacy’s visit is sponsored by the Frances
Lewis Law Center, the research am of the law
school. The Law Center’s Judge-in-Residence Pro-
gram annually brings to the campus a prominent

jurist to interact with faculty and students. The most
recent jud ge-in-residence was Justice Leander Shaw
of the Florida Supreme Court, a former Lexington
resident. '

Justice Lacy was appointed to the Virginia Su-
preme Court in January 1989. Prior to that appoint-
ment, she was a judge on the Virginia State Corpo-
ration Commission, an independent regulatory
agency, and Deputy Attorney General in the Judi-
cial Affairs Division of the Virginia Office of the
Attorney General.

Justice Lacy was the commencement speaker
for the law school’s graduation last spring. She was
the university’s ﬁrstwoman commencement speaker
in the 139-year history of the law school.

year’s second in a series of inaugural lectur
by recently appointed endowed professors z
the university. ‘

Gunn’s lecture, “Can Economics B0 B0
Relevant and Good?” will be presented Mo
day, April 25, at 7:30 p.m. in the North
Auditorium. The lecture is open to the public.
reception will follow in the lobby.

Gunn began his undergraduate studies -
Washington and Lee.Afterserving in thearm -
forces he completed his B.S. degree at (Borg
Institute of Technology in 1949 and in 19
received an M.A. degree from Princeton U
versity. He held appointments in the interr'
tional ﬁnance section at Princeton and on t
faculty of Florida State University before jo
ing the W&L faculty in 1957.

Gunn is the co-author of two survgys «
international ﬁnance published by Princet
University Press and has testified before Co ~
gress concerning the United States balance
payments and on reform of health-care ﬁnanc

Gunn has developed a working relationsh
between the W&L economics department a

 
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
  

 

Elizabeth B. Lacy

   
  

the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmon
He is also a member of the board of dr cto

Mentally Ill.

Law school

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor '

Washington and Lee University
School of Law graced the cover of the
most recent issue of The National Ju-
rist magazine, which reported that
W&L was the first in the nation in law
student satisfaction.

A student survey conducted by the
Princeton Review and The National
Jurist , based upon the comments of
18,000 students at 165 law schools
nationwide, found that‘W&L Law
ranked in the top ﬁve for each of the
three categories.

W&L ranked first in quality of life
and third in quality of facilities and
quality of faculty.

The April/May 1994 issue of the
magazine featured a picture of an uni-
dentiﬁed women who is not a W&L
student wearing a W&L hat and W&L
Law sweatshirt under the headline,
“The Best Law Schools.”

Some law students said they did not
take the ranking seriously, partly be-
cause more prestigious schools ranked

very low. Harvard Law, a perennial _

top-five in US News & World Report,
was ranked 154th of 165 schools.

J .D. Lowry, editor of the W&LLaw
News, remarked in her editorial space
that the National Jurist was weird.

“I find the US News survey a lot
more compelling than the one in this
month’s National Jurist, one of
those...free magazines “for the Future
Lawyer” that show up around the snack
lounge from time to time,” said Lowry
in her editorial. “I heard someone char-
acterize these results as, ‘Gee, we have
the bestest faculty in the whole wide
world!’ Give me US News.”

Randall Bezanson, dean of the law
school, said that he did not discount the
survey results for what they purported
to be.

“I don’t think it isa good measure
of -academic quality or national repu-
tation,” said Bezanson. “But I think
it’s a good reﬂection of student
satisfaction.”

He added that a more accurate pic-
ture could be drawn for the prospective

_ student by combining survey results in

some form.

“The best measure of our overall
quality would be a composite of the US
News and World Report and The Na-
tional Jurist/ Princeton Review
rankings,” the dean said.

Though the law school is ranked
well nationally by more technical de-
terminants, it could not be considered
as the best in the country, Bezanson
said. I
The W&L law school was ranked
as the 19th most selective school by the
Princeton Review Student Access

1

and ofﬁcer of the National Alliance of t

1 in Jurist surve  

Guide to the BestLaw Schools, and as the
22nd best law school in the US News &
World Report issue listing “America’s
Best Graduate Schools.”

The Jurist article called W&L a “tiny
law school” and commented on the strong
sense of community and the honor sys-
tem of the law school.

The article included comments taken
from students’ questionnaires. Third year
student Patricia McNemey felt that W&L
law students were not as competitive as
at other students.

“It’s a friendly environment,”
McNemey said. ‘‘I certainly think stu-
dents want to do well  but I don’t get the
feeling they’re out to get each other.” .

The article admitted that “measuring
student satisfaction is, by nature, a sub-
jective endeavor.” It went on to deter-
mine a very technical distribution of point
totals from a base of 1 1 questions in three
categories; quality of life, faculty and
facilities.

Though the survey results are, as
Lowry commented, the “talk of the town,”
they are not being taken as the bible for
entering students who will probably never
see the survey.

“The National Jurist results are re-

markably facile,” Lowry said.

How would you rate the relations between

faculty and students?

1. Washington & Lee - 3.53

2. Washbum Univ. - 3.46
3. Vanderbilt - 3.35

How would you rate the facilities?
1. Washington & Lee - 3.67

2. Willamette Univ. - 3.61

3. Univ. of Missouri - 3.60

Q

Do you agree that there is a strong sense of
community among the students? A
1. Univ. Cal., Davis - 3.28
2. Washington & Lee - 3.20

3. Notre Dame - 3.17

Southwestern

Univ. Of Toledo

South Texas

Univ. of Washington

Yale

Brigham Young

Univ of Arkansas, Little Rock
Univ. of Wyoming

Univ. of Cincinnati

.9
.93
.6

.3

.26
.15
.73

10 .20 30 40 50

44
65

.46
1

.3

.34

99

60 70

80

Washington and Lee 4 78.37
Seton Hall 76

Notre Dame .15 75-71

Univ. of Texas .01 75.46
Washbum Univ. 1 75.17
USC 43 75.02

73.19
73.
72.
72.46
72.3
72.25

 
  
  
   

71 .75

71.66
90

  

PC

Total points gathered from 'eleven questions out of 100%, faculty (36%), facilities.
(30%), and quality of life (34%). Totals given at the end of the rows.

 

I faculty

Facilities

I Quality of life ’

 

  
   
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  

he Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1994 Z  PAGE 3
:'

he Division Bell ushers in next wave of Pink Floyd

Barrett songs,most notably “Fat name Pink Floyd.

Old Sun” and “The Narrow The guitar work in “Lost for Words,” “Com-

Way,” as well as nearly all of ing Back to Life, “ and “Poles Apart” make

the songs off of his first two these three of the best numbers on the album.

solos and Momentary Lapse. “What Do You Want From Me” and “Take
The main thrust behind his it Back” also carry -their weight more than

new songs, though, lies clearly adequately.

within the music. The high point of the album arrives with the

show Waters that the remaining
members of the band could sell
albums without him. The record
sold like mad.
The new album, which Waters
When I first heard that Pink Floyd had a new once again has nothing to do with,
um coming out, I was more than a little projects a different message than
eptical. its predecessor.

BY MARK MCDANNALD
Special to the Phi

I didn’t know if Roger Waters would be Mason, Wright, and Gilmour The 1YTies are see°nd31'Y- last song: “High H°Pes-”
joining the crew or if David Gilmour was seemed to make this most recent AndnsWhenR°Se1’Wnterst°°k The hells atthe beginning Ofthis numbefnre
ply making his fourth solo album. album, The Division Bell, with a control after Syd Barrett could reminiscent of “Fat Old Sun” off of the 1970

no longer perform, Gilmour AtomHeartMotherandthebirdandbugsounds,
guides the band inanew direc- although nearly unnoticable, would ‘bring
tion after taking Pink Floyd memories of 1969’s Ummagumma to most true

Ncﬁv, I’m not saying that Gilmour’s music is less commercial approach than they
b-par. His first solo effort, David Gilmour, did Momentary Lapse. They re-
d his second,About Face, are quite respect- turn to their roots and make music

lelalbums. they truly want to, and the result is nnln watens-. . Fl°Yd.fnns~
His third, Momentary Lapse ofReason, has ' an exceptional album. _ The DWISIO" Be” 1s ens)’ to “High H°Pes” noes nothing but Praise the
ver found a place in my listening library. The music does not sound any- hsten t0~ _ _ former WOFKS that 1tC0mmemel'ateS.
Whether it be the two placid The Division Bell looks on the surface like

Despite the fact that this album has the thing like the mid-sixties hypnotic
me Rink Floyd on it, I would argue that it is progressions of Syd Barrett or the
solo. 1 powerfully lyrical and conceptual
Drummer Nick Mason and keyboardist Ri- late seventies/early eighties of
ard Wright had been relatively inactive mu- Roger Waters.

Gimour/Wright instrumentals an old Floyd album.

or one of the acoustically driven The cover is once again designed by Storm

pieces, the album sounds good. Thorgerson who created all but two of the
And even during the songs Floyd covers with his company, Hipgnosis.

"ally during the years since TheFinalCu1was " You’ll also find no connection powered by Gilmour’s electric Every so often, you might hear something
leased in 1983°and Wright hasn’t been with between this album and those of gnnars the album remnlns re‘ that isinhenenny F1°Yd- Bntnsawholes thisls
markably mellow. an entirely new album with a new sound.

e band since Animals in 1977. the early seventies such as Meddle,
Fo Momentary Lapse and the following Atom Heart Mother, Dark Side of
ur, ason and Wright contributed minimally. the Moon, and Wish You Were
either wrote any of the lyrics or music and the Here.

Only two of the eleven songs It is a sound, though, that has my full atten-
don’t receive recurrant air time tion.
on my stereo, one being the The hour long CD is well worth the $15,
Richard Wright piece “Wear— even to the skeptical and die hard Roger Waters

- o played only a fraction of the time. They The Division Bell truly ushers _ _

emed to be present only to legitimize the in the next wave of Floyd, the Gilmour age. average lyric writing ablility which is not en- mg the Inslde Out” and the Other, S0IneWhat fans-

me that Gilmour wanted to put on his record. As always, Gilmour’s guitar play is tirely natural but not exactly foreign. annoying “Keel? Talking-” If YOU like Gihn0llf’S Ab0llf F1109, y0u’ll
emain purpose of the album was probably to extrordinary, and he mixes this well with his He did write a small portion of the post—Svd The Test Of the Songs are deserving Of the like The Division Bell.

truction underway

BY DEBORAH ZOLLMANN
Phi Staff Writer

   'ds' Playce cons

After one and a half years of planning, the construction
of Kids’ Playce is well underway.

Judy Morgan, one of the coordinators and head of Public
Relations, says that things are going “pretty well.” More
people are needed to help keep things running smoothly and
to endure playground completion by the deadline. Ma-
chines‘ have been breaking on the site but repairs are being
made immediately.

So far $60,000 has been raised to fund the playground.
At least $15,000 more is needed. The parents of Washing-
ton and Lee students have been generous with their dona-
tions.

At a given time there have been about 50 people on the
site but hundreds more are needed. All volunteers are
welcome and encouraged to come out to Brewbaker Field to
help out. Free food will be provided for all workers.

_ 7 Kids’ Playce hassbeen added as an event to Derby Days 7
_ and will be worth 50 points to sororities." Whichever sorority
has the most service hours from Kids’ Place will earn poims.

Susan Dittman is the woman behind the new jungle gyms
and monkey bars. She says that a Kids’ Playce playground
in Alexandria, Virginia was her inspiration. She discovered
it while visiting with family and then Dittman realized that
Lexington’s playground was not sufficient and was ex-
tremely outdated.

“All I did was recognize a great idea,” she said.

   
 
   

'ds' Playce begins to take shape as Washington and Lee and VMI volunteers join to-

; ether to have fun, get exercise, get a tan, eat free food and build a playground. Volun-
eers are welcome through Sunday during 8 a.m.-12 p.m., 12:30-5 p.m. and 5:30-9 p.m. at
trewbaker Park. Childcare will be provided. ~

All photos by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

1 For the W&L Record

On April 21, 1944 The Columns reported that Wash- women as reported by the Phi on April 26, 1984. A
ington and Lee University presented degrees to 13 survey conducted by the W&L sociology department
graduating students on Commencement Day, April 29. showed that while over half the student body opposed

University President Francis Pendleton Gaines was female admission, 80% of faculty were in support of the
the featured speaker at the ceremony in Lee Chapel. prospect.

Baccalaureate Services were held the preceding Sun- Of the students polled, 34% expressed strong opposi-
day, April 23. tion to coeducation, while an additional 19% were some-

Three men graduated with a Bachelor of Law degree, what against it. 66% of the faculty were strongly in favor
six with Bachelor of Arts, three with Bachelor of Sci- of the admission of women and 17% were somewhat

 
 

Bestselling campus paperbacks

$6.99). Violence in L.A. and Montana leads to a confron- ence and one with Bachelor of Science in Commerce. supportive.
, COMPILED FROM STAFF REPORTS tation with something unearthly. TheRing—tum Phi reported on April 18, 1969 that the A participation rate of 84% from students and 85% of
—§ 6. THE TALISMAN OF SAN NARA, by Terry Brooks. Student Affairs Committee unanimously passed a mea- the faculty was noted by Professor David R. Novack and
. (Del Rey, $5.99.) Conclusion to “The Heritage of Sannara” sure permitting female visitation in all dormitories on the eight sociology students conducting the survey.
1. THE CLIENT, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, series. week-ends. April 20, 1989 the Phi reported that the Washington
$6.99.) Young boy is privy to a lawyer’s deadly secret. 7. THE TAO OF POOH, by Benjamin Hoff. (Penguin, Each dormitory had to designate acceptable week- and Lee baseball team was in the middle of a five game
2. THE PELICAN BRIEF, by John Grishman. (Dell, $9.00) Taosim as seen through A.A. Milne ’-s characters. end hours for female visitation. winning streak, their longest since 1972.
$6.99.) Law student finds herself on the run from killers of 8. THE TEO OF PIGLET, by Benjamin Hoff. (Penguin, While the resolution also allowed liquor in the donni— 1972 was also the last season in which the Generals
two Supreme Court justices. $10.00). Aspects of Taoist philosophy though the eyes of tories, faculty approval had to be garnered for the reso- boasted a winning record.
9. SCHINDLER’S LIST, by Thomas Keneally. (Touch- piglet. lution to become official. Victories in 1989 included Emory and Henry in a
stone, $12.00.) Nazi party member recues Jews in Poland 9. THE WAY THINGS OUGHT TO BE, by Rush 53% of undergraduates opposed the admission of double-header. '
during WWII. Limbaugh. (Pocket Star, $6.50). Controversial issues.
4. JEDI SEARCH, by Kevin J. Anderson. (Spectra/ 10. YOUNG MEN AND FIRE, by Norman Maclean. . .
Bantam, $5.99.) Part one of the “Star Wars” saga. (University of Chicago, $10.95). Story of the catastrophic Complled by JAY WHITE of the Phi Staff

. 5. WINTER MOON, by Dean Koontz. (Ballantine, Montana forest ﬁre in 1949.

 

 

 

W I 9 The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1994 3

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers
Offil1€ mark by Mark Parisi  by Jeff MacNe1l

-! ws‘
.1 .,

 

 

LEASEUS

        
  
  

EOTHERD
OOR
__::l

W 1:”  

Dave by David Miller 6

DAVE, Tl-ll‘) PLACE Mlél-«IT as i‘ A . 1
T00 TRENW F0? U9-~ AH.’ i-lea JUST A E 
S|GN oF THE ‘mes! (‘ ’  ,,

H y, ,

In-ouullbulv
-. -0.»; mm «min. is

HEB A NATURAL
A11lLETE...HE HITS
LIKE MICHAEL JORDAN.
AND DUNK6 LIKE
LEN DYK$TRA.

  
  

 
 

l9|!lVd IUVW [MIG <lUf'|lVil LMNVII

 

 

  
  
 

      
 

, WAT." You MEAN‘
THAT GuY overt THERE .
m-4 THE PONYTAIL ? t I

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

A father is always iirst to recognize
greatness in his son. / - "l '\ '

Colonnade Crossword
ACROSS 1 2

‘ Loud noise
3 Spiritual leader 4 ‘5
1 Children
'- “Omnia 7 13

vincit —-"
' Greek epic
~‘ Boast " -
‘ Wit.*tered

Eat and eat and

eat

 
    
  

 
   
  
     
  

  
     

      

3 Cooltdge or
Gam
* Ta nled up __
J C y —-
: Word of """'
contempt
3 Pencil remnant
3 Glutted
3 Item for a
dressrnaker '
3 Thrown for —— V
1 Larcen)’   
3 Govt. org,
3. Bits oi fluff  7  
‘ A flower ‘
3 Resound by Mike Peters  
3 -‘ L7-1"-C0ln @1994 lb-une Me-.1: emces. inc.
7 Use with A" I *5 R959” Last week’s puzzle solved
another
1 Leggy creature 6 Bitter drug
 Reveal 7 Cageling , ‘r
1 Lets 8 Satchel ' ...,zmEDc°U
3 Clair de —— 9 Recognize """"unt
3 Duds cousin 10 Scours :
Slllusion 11 New: abbr.
‘ One way to 12 Part of no. ’
order dinner 13 Hit ‘ A
-3 Smell 21 Foam
 Eagles weapon 23 Eject
5 —- avis 25 Mise en —
9 — r‘a;asty (stage setting) I'LL HAVE \ g , \ Mm
3 NeV"*0-"‘ 0" 25 Die‘e”5 dish FROM MAINE THIS SOMETHING THAT ‘
Asimov 27 Form 0* MORNING. TOOK THE BUS.
1 At any time defense, in
2 A direction court E
3 Class 28 Musical sounds Q ' I
1 be rved 29 oastline ‘T
O 8 30 gacitic "3/W9‘ ‘S
DOWN 31 Laughing _, 1‘
l lgnoble 32 Retail events;{_v ;_4_\3__l_,-fted wine 51 Oh. woe‘ 
E You said it!" 34 Tantalize~ ;'-  -‘.6 Soda ’ k‘s  52‘§p.eak.w:th g
3 Standard 37 Of speech creat ' , enthusiasm .
5. Most sounds 47 Spear 53 Ash, e.g. .5;
inexperienced 38 Gets ready 48 Digging animal 54 Make E
5 Kind of wing or 40 Hit 49 Notion 57 Ha —-
angle 41 Gator relative 50 Betsy or Diana lar   .

   

   
   
 
  
   
  
  

 

   

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    

Summreir Camp Staff Needed, L A t f R t ¢
charioiiessiiitac, 8:3 ﬁizl1n<:p1’8-Sept. 4 bath, w2iPs£i1letrII‘8:IdrO3/El, s§):ril71<; included. “((67 ea‘e”“w’ r For Rent \
2, Monday—Friday. Room and 6SW6StO t0W’Il. y p61‘ OOII1. Tw B d A rt t f W
B;1‘§‘oil“::§3:2’2§::333Zf:;E?:;;?S ‘“q““““““”C°'“°r4‘3'5‘52 —~ow snow:ng—— K ° ° r33ii‘26‘1?38'=i3»e3ft35r7°3ni°m J
ﬂ ' j . Daily 7a:2()s8ta9g5°|:|atgdsPG-13
Raad A artment fol‘ Rent S;‘?‘¢o‘f‘;°';‘;3'tl,%?'3i=,'§ffn*?’ TROY’S LAWN SERVICE: Lawn
Catering to W&L students. Two on Deadly Ground Mowing, Trimming, Hedge Cutting,
h - bedroom apartment for rent in 3:-tilY&%120F;-{£5 & gggedg Hauling Away Anything. Free
t 6 P hl, downtown Lexington, just a very T——————h‘.  ‘Up .'|.h';I_'. Estimates. Will service fraternities, J
. , short walk from the W&L campus. Daily7:00 pm. _4ge7.:_ioi(=)e AVO1d Landlord Fees. Have your lawn
It S fI'6Sh€1’, $325 per month, furnished. Sa’~&S“;:1"5_',‘;92 " "'"“ cut oveg tlﬁ §ugrg11er.6 Call Tr(1)(3; E.
nawal-’ and —Furn1shed nicely, T.V. T t32,5Bee,,,,Ave_,3ue,,avis,y B3119 (70 ) ' a-m- '_' DJ“-
f at —GreatLocat1on at
IIIOIC sa 6 y —Land10rd pays forwater, _ _ _ _
Concious including hot water Llmlted Seating Available
If interested, please call property for
than CV61‘ manager, Mrs. Brown, daytime .
befm’ iiiéigiii-3533ghtmweekends’ 
1 all 11 am ~
owls (ii ‘B One phone  to . 4
(fl &$ Cabbages & Kmgs W111 take
‘ts care of the gift, card & shipping Reserve VOUI’ ‘L
(ff (ofco1u'seifyouhaveﬁnf:eo, consjbyghgaoshop)  now!
Gift baskets, gift bags, or mugs m to 1
(individual items from s .45) C3" 463'3000
Choose one of our themes or create your own . . ,

May 18, 20, 22, & 24 at 8:00 p.m.

 

‘ Ch h H E Kit _

. Te:cI_om(,)erc.s Cy Keller Theatre - Lenfest Center

: Chef Mm‘? directed by J.D. Martinez

Mama M13 musical direction by Gordon Spice ‘ j .,

" Snacker’s Kaleidoscope 7 E. Washington St & a

‘ Garden-9143 B33 Music & Theatre M

(in the Stlxiio shop: across
 non the stonewall Jackson House) at Washington and Lee

j ,.
& "”"""l'1.-"‘

  

 

 

 

A Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1994

   
  
   
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
 

'6' ECK, from page 1

L’ eck said she has reason to believe
exﬂanation put forth by the En-
h department does not give the real
ons for her dismissal.

"I have good evidence that there is
ther reason. The decision was trans-
ent to me without this letter,” she
. “They fault me for not being
egiﬂ, they say I talk too much at the
lish department meetings. What
. reveals is for the English, collegi-
y comes before competence.”
Peck said her teaching ability and
port with students were also called
a question and cited as reasons for

dls issal.
“Enhlmerated in one small para-
h, they portray me as being dog-
c and close-minded in the class-
m. They claim that I do not listen to
dents with other opinions from
e,” she said. “This is in direct
ﬂict with over 90 percent of student
lluaﬁms which single out my open-

mindedness as a strength. My evalua-
tions have shown that I am an asset to
the department.”

Professors being considered for con-
tract renewal for a tenure-track posi-
tion are evaluated on several grounds,
one of which is collegiality. Academic
citizenship, in-class performance and
student evaluations also play a part in
the decision-making process. Craun
would not verify if collegiality and
student opinion were reasons cited in
the English department’s letter.

Eighteen of the 19 student evalua-
tions submitted for one of Peck’s fall
term classes were entirely positive, cit-
ing numerous strengths including open-
ness to ideas and receptiveness to stu-
dent opinions. One of the 19 evalua-
tions said Peck occasionally pushed
certain ideas. Of those 18 evaluations,
Peck consistently received the highest
marks of excellence for her abilities.
Only one of the 19 evaluations was
entirely negative and gave her average
or below average marks in all catego-
ries except ability to work with stu-

dents and involve them in the class.
The evaluation reﬂects many of the
concerns Peck claims the English de-
partment addressed in their letter of
explanation. For

-eck loses appeal; replacement delayed  

 

PAGE 5

on an appeal based on those grounds.
Peck also has an appeal pending before
the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission based on gender discrimi-

nation which _

this class alone, . she filed in
Peck’s approval early Novem-
ratin is over 94 —--'-— ber of 1993.
percen . n er
gt U d EEOC
“I thought it “They fault me for not guidelines
was really hypo- ‘ ' charges must
critical to justify bang colleglal’ they say I beﬁled within
a political deci- talk 100 much at the 1571- 180- days of
sion as student glishdepa’-t’nent’neetings_ thegrievanoe’s
opinion when occurrence.

student opinion

What this reveals is for the ,

Peck expects

had nothingtodo English, collegiality Comes an investiga-
with this, ” she » tion by the
said. “The En- befom °0’"Pet"""e' EEOC will oc-
glishdepalrtmeng pqur bybearlyé
as a lgne ovem er 0
themselves with this year. ‘

the right-winged five to 10 percent of
the students who want to see me as the
dogmatic liberal female. ”

Peck said she believes her academic
freedom was violated and is working

“The EEOC does not investigate as
a matter of course, but the investigator,
once he heard the facts, thought it ought
to be investigated,” Peck said.

The English department is not cur-

rently searching for a replacement for
Peck. Professors Severn Duvall and
Huntley are both retiring at the end of
this academic year, leaving the depart-
ment with three vacancies to fill.
Duvall’s position is the only one which
has been filled. Craun said the depart-
ment searches for one replacement a
year. All vacant positions will be ﬁlled
with temporary replacements for next
year.

“We’ll search for a replacement for
Professor Huntley next year. We have
no immediate plans to replace her
[Peck],” Craun said. “The year after,
we will search for a replacement for
Professor Peck, unless she has already
been reinstated or something by then.”

Although Peck had said Huntley
was “taking early retirement over the
whole thing,” Huntley said he became
eligible to retire last year. Craun said
Huntley had planed to teach part—time
for awhile. but decided “to retire right
out.” Huntley said his decision to retire
now and not continue teaching were
due to a change in circumstances.

“My decision to retire is in no way
related to Professor Peck’s case al-
though a lot of people have thought
that,” Huntley said. “God knows I’ve
had my differences with the depart-
ment before but it [retiring] wasn’t
over this.”

Peck said she is currently looking
into other possibilities for next year but
is not hopeful of finding a position this
late in the job search process. Peck
plans to continue teaching although
she no longer retains the salne ideals
and innocence as when she first began.

“I am not as naive as I was when I
first took this job. This process has
shown me that I believed in some myths
about academia which were not true. I
believed merit was rewarded and I with
my strong credentials and excellent
education, would be able to advance
through the system here,” she said.
“What I learned was the rewards are
not given on the basis of merit at all but
if you are in the right place at the right
time and if you court the right people in
power. ”

Bored with your classes? Looking for something to do with those five day weekends? Tired of Goshen? (Who
pould be tired of Goshen?) Well if you’re looking for some excitement in your life, come work for the Phi! We
are always looking for new reporters for sports, news and features. Call Sarah Gilbert or Phil Carrott at
462-4060 or 462-4059. Or drop by our weekly Tuesday night meeting at 7 p.m. in University Center 208.

(We’re up the stairs across from the old Sigma Chi house.)

    
   

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination.

Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only. Student RemalSAvaIlable for

1994-95 school year , .
City: 701 N. Main St. 3 Br/2 bath, $700/month I
124 N. Main St. 4 Br/2 bath, $800/month.
Country: 4 Br/2 bath, $800/month.

_Valley

7/Yaw’?/was

HARDWARE STORES 5'

Within walking‘ distance from campus.
Call 463-3835. .

     
   
  
  
   
   
    
    
   
   
    

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

For Rent: One room efficiences, downtown
Lexington - $180/ month and Brick duplex on Reed
Street 2 BR, AC, offstreet parking, walking
distance to W&L $475 a month available June.
Call 464-9218.

. W
W.  §?Rlll[lllllEl!l!  mﬂfﬂllﬁlllllli ;yy._‘_i.f§'  
 gﬂlptllmitn El![tait§t?Ehtitta * ff’

4'54--I474 .
Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes

}1'mk"ﬂ"3i" D 'l s ' 1 24H AD B kf t
_ ’ . _ _ a1 y pecla s- our- - ay rea as
Friday, Aprll 22- Eric Hemsohn Meals That Cater to BigAppetites

Saturday, April 23- Third Ear  

Call Mrs. Strecker 463-7168

Qpen Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

 

. Apartments for Rent

2 Bedrﬁcms  
$200-$270 per”‘niorith 
' Cal 463-1521

 
  
     

 

   
  
  
  

  

   

GIVE US TIME TO REPAY Tuesday’ AP“12"' 9 0 M"“““s?.i‘.‘.l’:;’a3.f“.i%f‘aiSp1.l.""”'“‘“"’“'
Beer Tasting 7-8:30 p.m. Rt. 11 North 463-3478 On 24 Hours
 AN I \ Wednesday, April 27-Radim Zenlzi J A

Aft . t ﬂlr _ QIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllIlllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE

er ]U.S 68 years 111 § , _

th‘eArmY, your college loan I  Storage NOW Opﬂll E New Releases 05

Could be a thing of the past. ‘ _ g Available Now — Neville Brothers Live, §

Under the Army's Loan Reserve your unlt now for summer months § Jackopierce Bringing 0n the Weather. E

Repayment program. each , while available.  AW“ 3? me £"'i‘0'l';'ngC0p1-ens g

ti d , , ‘ , g m en 1- x ues,

:'§§f1Zg;‘}f§$";n‘a’;f):e:i’§eS‘;%’y I Excellent location in Downtown Lexington — E s.,.;::..,,.:',.,.,'ls*,; ?:;§ﬂ]:qIg,N:'1,e___, g

. __ one-third or $1,500, whichever Basement °f Dommo S Plzza 3 Ma 3 — A11rn:: nyr-otlxr-s — Wner-e1et'Au Begins, 5

_= ‘ amount is greater, up to a Catering to W&L students, walk to storage from g y Augoml Kiowa.‘ screaming E

355900 mm‘ campus in 2 minutes. § Soulhat 60011 17» Be Gan. E

This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans E '11- =

. bl 1 t b th _ attic Far From Home. 5

an.d certain other federally insured loans which are not reason; 6 08w ra es; y men 1 or year‘ E May 10 - Indigo Girls swamp opneua, g
in default. pen a.m. - p.m. dai y, E Sonic Youth Experimental Jet Set, ,
And this is just the ﬁrst of many beneﬁts the Army by appointment on Saturday § Pretenders L85‘ Independents '

\I7{i1l givte you. Getthe whole story ﬁom yourArmy Sizes from 4,X8, to 8,X12, g G E
ecrul er. - _: g
 NIGHT OWL MUSIC CO. 5

0    3 '2 1  F Call Mrs. Brown‘, property manager g r g

. a 25 S. Jefferson 464-4050

CM ASs°°‘“‘°s ' 4633013  0114311 11 a in ‘til 7 p in Monday - Friday §

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE? anersp.m.<7os>9s4-9402  s.i...a..yn.......-a....... ’ 
alllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllIIIllllllllllllllllllﬂlllllIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂ

Wellness at W&L-
The Mood/Food/Work-out Co%nection

...-~—,, 1
. A/,' in
r’

‘ c

 
    

     
     
 

. . 
&7-a t»

Marlene Boskind-White, Ph.D.
National Expert on Eating Disorders

 
  
     

~ Materials considered by_lhe English depart-
ment included Peck‘: published work. her un-

By SARAH Gum

   
  

"“""“"*‘“  .lolmware,Ms.
an ‘M ‘member’ ‘mod “Ono mm“: me P.“ udamc ye", open mien Exercise Physiologist
~  . . .-_~ _;p 1 . I .. ......l.-
Pat Young, MS., RD.

Registered Dietician

Monday, April 25, 1994, 8 p.m.

Everyone Invited! Large Gym Everyone Invited!

    

 

      

nAGi«: 6 The Rigigium Phi, April 22, 1994: I

OPINION

@112 Bing-mm lﬂlii
The Student Voice of Washington and Lee I ‘ ‘ti.

Founded September 18, 1897

Hello...

Every ear with the beginning of sprin term, The Ring-
tum Phi c anges its staff with the seasons. he seniors have
left for care- ree Thursday nights at the Palms and we are
learning the ropes_ in the low- ressure spring term environ-
ment. you notice the sta box below, other than the
absence of the retiring seniors, little personnel change has

occured. So welcome to the new staff and we hope you

enjoy our early attempts. And please bear with us, we have

to practice sometime.

:3 rims“ 7 ‘*1
9  u

Ablow to Leeshonor , “ ,.o,..,._-.i. T’

is.“ I'M \AMr“'ir~‘¢ir

II

The recent conviction of Mary Flowers brings several . ca

r'"----—-«--—-—-4-«-«—~u.—._..~........_...-...,.--,_,_._-__, _ M___._M_____,_‘_m_,_M__ 

uneasy honor system uestions to li ht. _
’s Child store

In this issue, the w ole case of unday
against Flowers rested on the word‘ of the owner and an
em loyee, against the word of Flowers and two of her W&L
stu ent friends.

Several questions arise; firstly, can the W&L honor
s stem peacefully coexist with the Lexington legal system?

he law of the land is, of course, the last word in eve legal
sense,_ but it pains us tosee the sworn testimony 0 three
Washington and Lee students utterly disregarded in favor
of the memory an employee and the store owner have of a
certain face they saw several months ago.

The due gtrocess complications which stem «from the
anonymous &L student phone call which prompted Lucia
_Owens and Leslie Hoke to look through photographs to
identify Flowers are another matter, but they also provide
seemingly airtight appeal grounds for Flowers and her
friends. _ '

The uestion becomes, why was the word of honor of
three &L students so utterly disregarded by a Lexin ton
judge? Theoretically, Flowers’ conviction could meant ree
stu ents can now be convicted of honor violations for lying,
if the Executive Committee takes the word of a Lexington
Jucrge as law.

owever, anyone who believes in the integrity of the
W&L honor system, as we do, could only believe that
Flowers is innocent. If three students say it is so, it is so.

It does not necessarily follow, either, that the innocence
of Flowers would result in the determination that Hoke and
Owens lied; after all, they are only attemptin to recall a
face and may honestly believe Flowers is the gir who called
herself “Mary Stuart’ last December.

After Flowers’ conviction, we felt the painful realization
that the Washington and Lee honor system is not taken
serrously by the community or at least not nearly as
seri_ously as we take it. It IS in act totally disregarded in the

v To rrgr’ A
9 RE. ems

 

Spring term is essential to W&L life .

It’s Spring Term, and not a minute too soon.

We have the chance ﬁnally to wake from our
winter term hibernation to find the sun shining, only
6 credits of work, and students “sunning” on the hill.

Our thoughts now can turn to
Goshen, Zollman’s, and kegs;

where our thoughts should be.

 

long weekends and keg lines, however. It offers
Washington and Lee students a chance to get to know
each other. Not as “the guy who sits in the back of
philosophy class” but as “the guy I saw at the Dave
Matthews concert.” There is
more to this than a passing
acceptance will yield.

days the suggestion may be taken seriously. Thus
I would like to point out some of the merits of
Spring Term. Many of these have been mentioned
before, but merit further discussion.

Weekends. All of us love them and often live for
them and often don’t live through them. Simply
put, for most of us the weekends are longer; four or
ﬁve days longer for some. Goshen; need I say more.

= - - _ Every now and then, how- Spring term brings us

i-1rE)lgr(r)rnu§1(rjré(r)SOtrrSti}11Cred realm for truth and Justlce’ the Court ever, we hear this voice, C°F' closer together as a univer- The chance, perhaps, to see Professor Smitka in
of course, thereeould be other agendas present that we whether it be_from our inner KUCERA, sityedarenllrsay it, :5 a com‘; shorts alricrla tank tﬁp. Creativity. Each year stnldents
khow nothmg Of; It Could be as awful as racism (ah the self or The Trident, this voice , munity. issoun stritean mirlstrefa enget CmSC11V:lSt0Cl0mC‘t.g) wlrt new
wrthesses for the defense were black) or as Simple as facts tells us that our futures are at comy,but.think of how many an i erent,ways to te t emse ves, utt ese are

set that were not published btl either party stake and goes on and on about new and diffe\r/entpeopre you realZ((:)ll2lisses. I r h f d _ .
r T, I ‘ W&L being one of the best. met at the irginia orse man’s. ts amazing ow ast everyone rives
"N n any Case’ we feel the Onor S Stem has taken a Senous Center this Wednesday. So to get out there, and how slowly they drive back.

to." and upsetting blow. In the best 0

all possible worlds, the

0

s o honor system couldpeacefulry coexist with the lrocal: j ustice
t

‘is. 4 system, but it seems more 0

en than not we are at war.

Academics are important,

no doubt, but ‘because they are so important we
mustn’t lose sight of what spring term is all about,
having fun and drinking beer. This university knows I

much emphasis is placed on the W&L “community.”
Many say fraternities’ pull us apart‘ and immediately .
place a label on us. This may be so, but the alternative

 

 

The concept is foreign to.many of my classmates
from high school attending liberal colleges in north-
ern cities,/a barn in the middle of the country,

 that when days such as those of this past week role of reducing the signifi- surrounded by fields,
‘ . . around, students often don’t, thus they have invented cance of the fraternities ' in which bands come

i spring term. at W&L is not a pleasant to entertainuson aSun-
  Spring term, in a sense, is an appeasement by the one. ‘ C day afternoon Or a
 A far better solution, Monday night. All I

university, “Hey, if ya come to class, we’ll only give

Spring term brings us closer to-

rn o o o . ,, . . . . .
mis it a conspiracy? ¥;i“..§$52.?§f§$$f..‘T.iiT”ii§".",§‘l§J‘;1%§"ZZ§i“‘i%vh£‘§ :.:°.:.‘%::;.:.r;:::§.::::: ,, . . ,,,,,,,, ,., ::*::.:a:...“““
vhr, brings me back to my original point. ties it offers, yet these are ge er as a unfversltyf y _ ’ The Skyline Drive.
3;.” Onct; or twice ayeart‘ Washington and Lee is thrown into Spring term is good for academics because it some of the same people (IS a community. This sounds trite Aslongasypu stay out
73} the national spotlight (at least, so we hope) b those fun ftrrglvyigtrfstrggrgeerrgrttiﬁrisgtrgiffhiriighfrmore rglhrrkgghgygglyfgg and corny, but think of how many ggatiégssygcfggetjjllgrs

Kill‘

student-satisfaction rankings of the Princeton eview.
You will all recall the glorious time a year or so ago when
W&L was named in the top 10 in all sorts of fun cate ories,

Spring term classes...yes, there are some. Most of
the course offerings are meant to enrich. The spring

and World Report. len-
courage everyone this

new and different people you met at
the Virginia Horse Center this

 

its a perfect automo-
tive escape from the
hustle and bustle of

om .

i. like “Best Lookin St (1 t B d “ d “S _ terrnoffersprofessors an opportunity to stray from the spring temi to meet new

:2-iitnitpl System)’ g u en 0 y an tmngest rater norm in many cases, to offer seminars and classes people,beitatZollman’s, Wednesday’ downtownMetro_-Lex.

_;_ Pt. ow the law school is joihih in the fun with its recent which they otherwise might not getachance to teach. the front lawn, or Red An afternoon in the
in The ' In addition it gives students a chance to take these Square. There is, I m Dell at Sweet Bria!-

‘ ‘Number One ranking

ational Jurist magazine.

_i-{)g:,~_OIlC€ again, these findings are based completely upon

student opinions and co-sponsored by, you guessed it, the
Princeton Review.

_You have to wonder whether someone over there at
Princeton, or wherever they put outthose reviews, likes us.
Or maybe the writing skills and olitics of Washington and
Lee students are so advanced t at the glowing and lucid
descriptions of W_&L life we.leave on those surve s are so
rmpressive the Princeton guys cannot help but ran us first

- in everything.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 

courses, leaving them only to find a way to tell their
parents, “But these are real courses.” These are
opportunities which larger, less personal colleges and

universities don’t and can’t offer.

Spring term offers more than just different classes,

Forget Whitewater

What is the most overused word in

sure, some talk in some
university building, of

him into a tabloid figure. Leach’s rheto-

 

judgment has been totally overshad-
owed by the pure partisan politicking

This amazing transformation from

banishing spring term from the academic calendar.
Now these are probably suggestions made without
the benefit of reason or intellect, though one of these

and get towork

he was forced to admit that he had lied

now seeking to continue its reforms.

That seems like a per-
fect note to end on.

So enjoy spring term; drink some beer, meet
some new folks, and see The Dave Matthews Band
a few more times...I’ll see you there.

prosecutor and a Republican, is con-

Wh31te,Ver the Case, Congrahhatlons are in Order to Our Oh‘ Washington these days? ric, while partisan, was initially ratio— While Under 0ath- He has 8150 accepted ducting a thorough investigation of the

S0'SahShed law Students‘ “Whitewater.” The press corps has nal. However, as the issue has pro- campaign ccntributicns fr0rnir1diVidU- president and his advisors, and the

been bom- gressed, he 318 seeking appcintrncnt i0 agencies White House has been totally forth-

barding us for has steadily his Cornrnittcc 0Vcrsccs- Later, these coming with the documents and infor-

~ . the past few lost credibil-' indiVidI_lais remar_k§ib1y fcund thcm- mation thathave been requested. Rather

E 18‘ m I weeks with ity. The cli- selves in the positions they desired. than bickering about what both sides

2  In what appears P max of this Finally, D’Arnat0 Was Criticized by the agree is, at worst, poor judgment on the

to be a never- . ATRICK was his 45 Senate Ethics Comrnittcc f0r allowing part of some of the White House staff,

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert ehdihg Sc“_h' MCDERMOPP, m i h h t 6 his brother’ a _convicted felon’, to use V letis taik about the issues that concern
Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott ‘ml’ The entire 9 Speechoh the his Office Stationary for lobbymg dc’ the nation‘

Associate Editor .......................................... . . Richard Weaver issue of what 94 ﬂoor of the fense companies The president’s agenda is full and,

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ethan Krupp the president House, dur- With these two Winners On their more importantly, crucial to the future

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard or the first lady ing which he side, the Republicans have attempted prosperity of our country.

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong may havedone seemed to be to use Whitewater to stall the Instead of concocting conspiracy

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green w r o n g 0 1- ready to have president’s agenda. theories involving the Clinton’s, let’s V.

Editorial Cartccnist - - - - ~ - - - - - ~ - - - - ~ - - - - - « - - - - ~ - - - ~ ~ - » - - - - - - - ~ - - ~ ---‘eh Till)’ where they may have acted with poor the president resign on the basis of Afteratremendously sl1cccSSf|l11cg- talk about health care, crime, welfare,

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Hewlett unsubstantiated rumors and ahegatiorm jslative first year, the White House is and an ofthe other social issues that are

eating away at the fabric of our natioﬂ.

B“Si_“°S5 M‘“‘,ag°' ' ‘ ' ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ' * ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ’ R“"S°m James going on in the Capitol. mild-manneredcongressmantoanear- Rather than supporting the These are the issues that the president
._ . ' ﬁgsfgrsiitnhlllsilnﬁs zianager - - - - - ~ ~ - - - - ~ » - - - - - - ' V - ' - - - ' ' ' - ' ' 'S'ai1‘;la‘(§:’)1e"r‘II:‘;:‘e°r Both the White House and most rabid paranoid is a feat truly worthy of President’s proposed legislation on is— and the first lady are working on. These
.:‘:~.i..i.......§...i....fM.;.;.;,;.;.1111111112ii1i1111i11i111111i1i11...ii.......N.i.....‘ Republicans refute any “°‘.‘°“ of 1116- th<=G0P- .  like health  the Revvblien  the andvroblemswehired

T. 4 Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter g,ahty on the pan of the presldem or the AS remarkable 38, Represehmnve m.emberS .0f the Congress have uistead them to solve‘
first lady, and yet statements by some Leach’s transformation was, it was tried to dlvcrt attcrlilon t0 n0n-ISSUCS One would have thought that the

 
 
  

  
 
 
 

t Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current

 

The Ring—tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, ‘Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

House and Senate Republicans and the

What is more interesting is that the
same «GOP legislators who railed

legislation. All of this aside, the
Republican’s choice of leadership for
their attack has been bizarre, to say the
least. Their team consists of Rep. Jim
Leach of Iowa and Senator Alfonse
D’Amato of New York. In beach, the
GOP has taken a well regarded, though
hardly exciting, legislator and turned

A nothing compared to that of his col-

even more astounding than that of Rep.
Leach given D’Amato’s history.

of supporting or being aware of the
“1% rule.”

This involved government workers
being coerced into giving 1% of their
salary to the GOP. D’Amato denied
any knowledge of the practice in 1975,
but when a letter from him on his
personal stationary was found in 1985

like Whitewater.

 

GOP had learned

 

cans who wanted
the president to

can members of the Con-

'. Ph" 'dF‘d cl’ d hl . . .
 The Rmg mm 1 is puhhshe _ H ayS_ ‘hing the im ergraduaie Sc 00 Year at media coverage they have received league inthe Senate,AlfonseD’Amato. Hopefully, from the last eled
-:.-W. Washington and he UhfVerS"y’L‘x'"?tcf"’V"g'"1a'F“”d"‘gf°'TheR'"g"“'"Ph'°°'h°S would lead one to believe a crime In the last few months, D’Amato this past W8-6k’s ‘ ‘ tion that opposi-
-‘ -. primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica- of national si nificahce has has one from beih one of the most lackofwhitwater tion research does

a g g g u g u u I 56 ,9 ‘ 9 o -
tions Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is been committed. controversial, hlghly crmclzed, and al- news . IS the Rather than Supportlng not w1n elections,
~ otherwise independent. _ Personally, I find it interesting that legedly-corrupt members of the Senate beginning of the resident gs ro osed commitment to
Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University the party of watergaiie hhd”h'ah Chhtra to 3 “5Fif_f'bhcked ethicist” _ready to the end‘ . . p . . P p . hhlpihg your coh‘
- . , . . ,, has now ‘ found religion and is at- expose ln_]llSi1CE and wrongdoingwher- After 311, It legislation on issues llke stituents does.
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week s edition. Letters, columns, and My . . . . . . h R by _
temptingto ride the high moral ground. ever he finds them. This evolution is W35 I c cpll 1- health care the Republl_ If the Repub-
)

licans who are
complaining so

don’t want to let
him do his job and
move on to doing
their own.

If the members of the GOP think the
american people can’t recognize parti-
sanship when they see it, they are sorely
mistaken. Lawrence Fiske, the special

sues like Whitewater.
 

5 court definitions of libel and obscenity. against the independent counsel law Most notable among his offenses is appoint a Special gr-ess have instead tried to loudly about
under Reagan and Bush now seem to the scandal in Nassau County, New Counsel, and now  rt tt . . W h i t e w a t e r
have found a new favorite piece of York in which D’Amato was accused that he has, thcy we a ennon to "ands" would like to stay

around to com-
plain some more,
they had better
start working on
something the people care about.

I honestly don’t know why they
haven’t realized this— maybe its some-
thing in the water!

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1994

OPINION

PAGE 1:

Dead presidents party in Daytona

SPos’ SPACE
u Tom Hespos

“Of all the presidents, you had to
pick the one that I wanted to be,”
whined one of the Daytona pilgrims.

He clearly picked the wrong mo-
ment to take a potty break. The rest of
Cur band of Spring Break pleasure-
seekers decided that we would pick our
identities for the night on the town
while he was in the can, and he seemed
ticked off that he had to settle for an
obscure president, rather than one of
the more famous ones.

0 The previous night, at a seedy reggae
bar populated entirely by sketchy
Daytona local types, we were Supreme
Court justices. The night before that,
we were philosophers. I was David
Hume, and I introduced myself as
“Dave” at another beachfront bar
qvhere the blonde beach bunnies would
stick to you like the finegrained white
sands of the Florida beach to which we
had migrated for Spring Break. On that
particular night, I had the honor of
introducing a very attractive Daytona
native named Molly to my partners in
time: John Locke, John Stuart Mill,
and Immanuel Kant, the latter assum-
ing the name“Manny,” so as to head off
any negative social consequences stem-
ming from the full name “Immanuel,”
which is just plain silly. Molly eventu-
ally ended up in our hotel room, drink-
ing Barenjager shots with Mr. Locke,
While hearing of his stance on the na-
ture of man.

Such a scam was not intended to
deceive. Rather, it was intended to
help us to sort out the intellectuals
among the beautiful college women
that had migrated to Daytona, just as
Qve had. After all, we needed to hang
with girls who were able to follow our
drunken conversations about the na-
ture of mankind. The dumb ones just
wanted to get into our wallets, so as to

mooch free drinks. So in our minds, if
we took intellectual advantage of a few
assorted ditzes and airheads, no hann
was done. In the case that we were able
to convince a young vixen that we were
Oliver Wendell Holmes or Thurgood
Marshall, we ran with the gag for ten
minutes or so, let her in on the joke, and
watched as smoke came out of her ears.

In any case,that night we were dead
presidents: Chet Arthur, Zack Taylor,
Warren Harding, Jimmy Polk, Andy
Jackson and Bill Taft. When people
asked us what we did for a living, we
would respond with outlandish stories
about law school and politics. Mr.
Jackson would inform unsuspecting
gold diggers that the majority of his
vast fortune was acquired during a brief
period during
which he grew
dope behind his
big white house

Heart dance.”
Swaggering into the hotel lobby in
the same manner as prominent dead

8 presidents, we sent “Warren Harding”

to the lobby desk in order to get the
lowdown on what was transpiring
twelve ﬂoors above us. The desk
attendent swallowed whole Harding’s
story about the fictional Secret Service
Restrictions Act of 1992, which made
hotel management staff personally li-
able in the event that they refuse to
provide escorts for prominent
political ﬁgures.

Minutes later, we were riding the
elevator in the company of two sketchy
bellhops with mirrored sunglasses and
hand-held radios. “Polk” rode out the
gag for all it was worth.

“I demand to-
tal security,” he
said in his best
mock-VlPvoice.

in D.C. ~ - - “How come ou
With little in- Wlth hm,“ Intellectual guys aren’t gar-
tellectual stimula~ stimulation gleaned from rying automatic
tion gleaned from thefemale patrons ofthe weapons? I pair
the female patrons . sue you for this!
of the reggae bar, reggae bar) we dltched The bellhops
we ditched the the place in Search of stoodﬁrrneratat-

place in search of
beach bunnies
with detectable

beach bunnies with
detachable brain waves.

tention and ad-
justed their offi-
cial Florida State

bra in waves. Trooper mirrored
Stumbling down   sunglasses, say-
the street (quite lit- ing nothing in or-

erally), we ran into
a wandering acid dealer who told us
about the redneck bar in the sky. He
pointed off into the distance, and
there it was. 1

The redneck bar in the sky was
glittering and shining like the mother
ship in “2001: A Space Odyssey” from
the top of a 12-story hotel down the
beach. It was as if God had illuminated
the place so that we would be drawn to
it. Squinting into the distance, we
could make out thelforms of several
women in country-western gear, ap-
parently doing the “Achy-Breaky

der to avoid get-
ting into any more “trouble.” Soon, the

doors opened wide and exposed

the live band and the line-dancing
women, most of whom were over 35.
Our revulsion was settled by a neon
sign proclaiming $3.50 pitchers of
Budweiser.

Four hours later, the dead presi-
dents were the only six paying custom-
ers left in the bar. We had a pile of
quarters in the middle of the table
from the change we had received from
our purchases of pitchers. “Zack Tay-
lor” counted the quarters and

divided by two.

“That makes 18 pitchers,” he pro-
claimed loudly, attracting the attention
of our waitress, who politely asked us
if we would like anything before
last call.

Zack placed one of the pitchers over
his head and demanded four more.
Meanwhile, “Bill Taft” went to go ha-
rass the band so that they would play
“Queen of my Double-Wide Trailer.”
The waitress was not amused and told
us to leave. .

“You can’t talk to me that way, I’m
Zachary Taylor,” spouted our
drunken friend.

Right then, we noticed the two
sketchy bellhops approaching us in the
company of two Florida State Troop-
ers. We didn’t plan on sticking around
long enough to find out whether we
could be arrested for impersonating
dead presidents. Even if we couldn’t,
the backward arm of the law, charac-
teristic of southern states, would pinch
us on some other bogus charge. We left
through the ﬁre door, leaving our pile
of quarters as a generous tip.

Mentally and physically taxed from
our challenging night, we headed back
to the hotel, with a brief pitstop at
“Sid’s Discount Liquor Hut” for cheap
liquor and cigarettes. I introduced
myself as Alexis de Tocqueville and
received a complimentary bottle of
Tanqueray, along with Sid’s best wishes
for luck with my contemporary study
of democracy in America. He also
gave us a little American ﬂag with a
marijuana leaf sewn on it.

Upon arrival at the hotel, we com-
menced drinking Tanqueray and
Barenjager and wondered whether we
could derive any intellectual stimula-
tion at all from our trip. Taft noted that
a sign in the lobby announced the next
day visit of a Shriner’s convention to
the hotel. .,

Oh, well, I thought to myself. At
least the possibilities for fun would be
kept alive.

Leave the fall Rush tradition alone

MY VIEW

’ Jimmy Kull, ’94

As my time remaining at °W‘&L"is°q‘uickly“ coming ’
to a close, I am sadly preparing myself to leave this
community that I first came to love in the fall of 1990.

My adoration of this school, however, has occa-
sionally been strained because of certain administra-
tive actions. One such incident is the recent dogmatic
letter of Deans Manning and Ruscio published in the
March 18th issue of the Phi in which they argued for

Winter Rush for fraternities.

To me, that letter epitomized the Washington Hall

space to delineate sufficiently the countless com-
plaints that thefratemities have with the Renaissance’s
inefficiencies, ludicrous expenses, and mind-bog-
gling bureaucratic mazes. And I will not even discuss
the blatant disregard for student governance in the
recent FIJI ﬁasco. Perhaps you can now understand

V why I fail to list all of my concerns with the Manning
and Ruscio letter —-—' it would be useless-, and despite
the administration’spretensions,
the issue is not debatable.

For the past several years it
has been an understood fact that
the administration has wanted a
winter Rush. The elected repre-
sentatives of the fraternity sys-
tem (which encompasses 85%
of all males at W&L), however,

its has been an

understood fact that the

goals: the placement of W&L in U.S. News &
World Report and the construction of countless
buildings. They have been successful in these en-
deavors, but only at the expense of neglecting the
spirit of this community. Consequently, they refuse
to believe that the Speaking Tradition is dying -— if
not dead — and the school’s once unique character
is on the verge of extinction. . »

For the past several years

W&Lischanging——aswell
it must to survive. W&L, un-
like other institutions of higher
learning, has successfully
adapted to its changing envi-
ronment for nearly 250 years.

I think our school has been
able to survive because of its
rich heritage, wonderful lead-

Resume

There will be a Resume Work-
shop on Monday, April 26 at 4 p.m.
in Room 109 of the University Cen-
ter. All students are welcome.

Health

Health Education Committee
meets Thursdays from 4:30 to 5:30
p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center. All students are welcome.

Keys

If you have a key to a student
organization ofﬁce or sorority of-
fice in the University Center that
you no longer need, return it to
Carol Calkins for a full refund.
Deadline to receive a cash refund is
May 18th.

Counseling

The Peer Counseling Program is
now accepting applications for
membership in the program.
Appilcations may be picked up from
Carol Calkins in the University Cen-
ter. The deadline for applying is
Friday, April 29 at 5 p.m.

Environment

The Environmental Consulting
firm “Project Performance Group”
will be conducting an’ infonnation
session for any students interested
in learning more about environmen-
tal consulting. The session will be
held on Tuesday, April 26 at 4 p.m.
All students are welcome.

 

Fishing

A basic course in ﬂy ﬁshing for
women will be offered this spring
term. Rods and reels are supplied
for the class and several trips to
Virginia streams. First meeting
today, April 22, at 3 p.m. in the
Arlington Women’s Center. For
more information, contact Dean
Schroer-Lamont, at 463-8750

Health

Diane D. Cole, M.P.H., Health
Educator for the University of Vir-
ginia Breast Resource Center will
present “Breast Health: An Issue
for Every Woman,” on Tuesday,
April 26, at 7:30 p.m. The presen-
tation will be held in the ﬁrst floor
courtroom of the Rockbridge
County Administration Building,
150 S. Main St., Lexington.

Wanted

Thinking about selling you
mountain bike? If so, call 463-
3313 and ask for Sarah.

Volunteers

The Parent Empowerment
Project is looking for volunteers
seeking experience in facilitating
and coordinating groups for at risk
youths. They offer superision and
16 hours of training with a nation-
ally known treatment programs.
Interested people should conatact
John White at 464-8560 for more
information.

Avoid unfair criticism
of Registrars office,

To the editor,

Over the course of the last two
years, the women working in the
Registrar’s Office have been mentioned
in a number of contexts (editorials,
guest articles, question of the week
interviews, etc.) intended to be humor-
ous.

Donna Hall, Jeannette Jarvis, and
Karen Plogger have very difﬁcult jobs
to do, involving many details and re-
quiring them to deal with hundreds of
requests in a day. Frequently, the “cus-

encies, those complaints should be
brought to the attention of the person
responsible — me. If my staff is not
representing me or treating you in a
manner consistent with the attitude of
service and helpfulness I have tried to
establish, then they need to be cor-
rected but not abused.

I must say‘ that I do get compliments
from faculty, students, alumni, parents
and others off campus about the re-
sponsiveness and performance of our
ofﬁce.

administration wanted a

want a fall Rush — but this fact ,
winter Rush. The elected

ership, and several fundamen-
tal truths.

qnentality that is corroding this school’s uniqueness. tomer” doesn’t want to be told “no” or

I also recognize that individually

n brief, it reeks of bureaucratic arrogance which
shuns one of the most important tenets of the W&L .
experience .—— namely, student autonomy. This is the
latest in a string of administrative policies/actions
since my arrival that have collectively convinced me
that W&L is losing its distinctiveness.

I could list numerous examples of fallacious poli-
Q:ies/actions, but that would take too long. Besides,
' there is no point in revisiting the ill-feelings that still
remain from the administration’s decision to forfeit
the final piece of land on the Colonnade to the con-
struction of an Asian art gallery. Nor should I dwell on
the general opinion toward the construction of the
.“un”friendly wall. I would never have enough time or

temity concerns.

is of small interest to Washing-
ton Hall. They want to jump
head-first into a process that has
not been properly studied, and
from their ivory towers, they
insolently belittle legitimate fra-

representives of the

a fall Rush.

It is this attitude which per-
haps best explains the problem with W&L today.
There existsa pervasive deterioration of the W&L
spirit, and I blame the administration for the disaffec-
tion that students feel toward this school. Why? Be-
cause for the past several years our Washington Hall
bureaucrats have devoted their energies toward two

‘Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

~   What is your idea of a perfect hypothetical   

 

Jennifer Lynch, ’95, Medford, NJ. — “One

that doesn’t meet.”

0

thing.”

Maggie George, 597, Houston, Texas —“Ad-
vanced rope—swinging techniques or some-

fraternity , however, want

TALKBACK

 

Unfortunately, one of the
“timeless” truths that came
from General Robert E. Lee —
namely, student autonomy ——
is threatened by unsolicited,
unneeded, and unhelpful bu-
reaucraticmicro-management.

In the short-run, the rejection. of this essential
tenet will continue to frustrate and victimize the
student body. In the long run the very identity — if
not the health — of the university will be jeopar-
dized by such a blatant disrespect for
student autonomy.

“later.” Perhaps the way in which this
is communicated needs work, but re-
gardless of how pleasantly Donna,
Jeannette, and Karen might enforce
the faculty’s rules and my ofﬁce’s pro-
cedures, they on occasion will hurt
feelings or cause disappointment. Mak-
ing them scapegoats is unfair, aggra-
vates the problem without healing the
rift, and needlessly hurts the individu-
als involved.

If anyone has complaints about the
way an office —- my ofﬁce — per-
forms its duties and serves its constitu-

/

and as a group, we can always improve
both our manners and efforts to look for
ways to be helpful.

I hope your publication will refrain
from further ad hominem attacks and
that your readers will get to know the
human beings behind the counter. I, in
turn, am anxious to learn about ways I
can reﬁne our service.

Maybe we can catch more ﬂies with
sugar than with vinegar.

Scott Dittman
University Registrar

spring term class?

    

Murphy, Lakewood, NJ. — “History of the
W&L dog.”

 

Shelly Brien, ’94, Sayre, Penn. — “One that
meets once a week in the afternoon and allows

me to spend the rest of my time at Goshen.”

Virginia Yoerg, ’97, Bloomﬁeld, Micnj —
“Dog breeding.” i

    

 

  

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22,1999

Mellrnntr in the nllanrin Zdiinmitnm fﬂﬁlllyii,       
We are iprunn itu lrriuu pun it min iuiiiturinl ﬁliitfdf innit it 
  lﬁsiin ruin ifnrras    
We are iprunit in luring pun the must nriina ulf sting
  nnihrraiitrg nrinapnprre
  We are prune in list is rmllrg ninnrueiininuinn neiunpnprr  
nit llﬂnnlliginuitun mm Eire gﬁlniheraitps
Air tine iprnnnllig runitinnr rnrr urrnnra=nllu lffiilﬁilffiﬂlﬂie

Ellie 1iinu=i‘tnrn Eﬂlyis

 

 

AI:._.5'.,«.;L > ' , ,

The dictionary has at
least three deﬁnitions for
’ So do we.  

.5 L .

“value.

     

Maa'nlas‘b Quadra' 660AV8/230, Macintosh’
Color Digolay, Apple‘ Extended Iéyboard 11 and mouse.

Only $2,103.00.

Pou/erB00lz’ I458 4/I20.

Maa'ntocb'l.C575 5/I60, t‘nternal4ppleCD'"
Only $1,404.00.

300:‘ Plus CD—ROM Drive, Apple‘ rrqboardrand mouse.
Only $1,61aoo.

 

available within your budget. Meaning you get it all. Power. Quality. And afford-
ability. It’s that simple. So, if that sounds like value

Apple‘.

Giving people more value for their money has made Macintosh’ the best—selling
personal computer on campuses and across the coun-
try for the past two years.‘ And that’s a trend that is

Affordable computers from Apple.

likely to continue. Because there are Macintosh and PowerBook° rnodels « Reseller today. And leave your dictionary at home.

to you, visit your Apple Campus

For further information visit University Computing in
iiicker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud  
or call 463-8844

*Price does not include sales tax
I‘ , ' ,Ina/1ppleCDJj@le02lorm1dAua5'o|v’kiona1v ‘ ‘

‘ "‘ac:‘rzlarbQuaa9aandPwerBoo£areregr'slerad ’ “

-mum: 1994.©1994App1ermpu«er,maAun;gb¢:;awe:va14g;pze,:aeAppzeIoga,

 

r1.;11.-,.g.1.,.,. Phi, April 22, 1994 3 SPORTS . I » A . T1"AGl53:.9;.
.

   

   
  
 
    

  
   
  
 
 
  
  

  

 
  

   
  
 
 
  
  

T I   I   . GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
% . Standings as of 04/22/94 ’
- * 1. I _ ’ ‘ T I , M 1 '8 I A 1 Baseball
. » 1 p Batting Leaders . Women’s Lacrosse
I  ' 1: _’ ~  7 Player Avg HR RBI s°°ri"g Leaders
-  I I   p Graig Fantuzzi .53 0 11 Player G A Pts
‘ I ’ ' Bates Brown .400 1 15 Angie Carrington 32 5 37
, . ' “""""  ‘"“_—: V__ ‘ Matt Ermigiotti .323 3 18 gndgaybocoleman  2 
/_, ~_ I   _, 1,. [,3 U _ » mme n ’
REDUCED Pmis A  ;,;;.;~:e-_,;::;;r¢1 .1  ,3 Pitching Leaders Erika snﬁir 11 4 15
CERTIFIED ANGUS BEEF  - - *1’ -- : .  er w_L ERA K Nicole Rlpken 10 5 15

H  Reedy 1-1 6.39 5

' Hartman 2-3 6.95 18 Player sv GA sV%

- Sarah Smith 88 57 .607
8 9 ’ Brooke Glenn 43 31 .581
I. B A\grAT|fAA:E|_§  Men’s Lacrosse
5 ' ‘ STORES _‘ Scoring Leaders
_ --'‘:'-‘5' P13 G A P15 1 Women’s Tennis
-" And enkins 23 5 28 ‘
5  Colin Higgins 16 11 27 ‘ Singles Ixaders
 4 1- - " usse rot 3Y3?
” W  I ‘ 1’ izwyiiiﬁgsr i3 $6 33 P1 w L
’ ScottM kl 15 6 21 Marilyn Baker (1 20
   HAM,     ac ey Anna .’ _onnor 6) 16 3
- Goaltending Kim D1 11S0ﬂ( ) 15 2
A ' 1 ' Ayers (2) 15 3
; Player sv GA sv% S e Icy S derman (3) 14 4
Bougd(J} e, 22  358721 Helen C dler (4) 12 4
avi o .
1. p Doubles Leaders
- a 14 4
  10 OZ? Rickhifwconnm 9 I 2
0 Su rma - handlerll 4
L  *  ‘  S .1  LOW pmcas 9°"
'. - . 1 1J ~_--- ~. '  u d
, V- . . ,1 , , ;, nan SEEDLESS 129 “ "S . T R rd
. »_  . , GRAPES ............ .111. }3_owi11iar;1ls 7  7755 “am °°° S
 ‘.1;-.\;?§;Z:.~f.f2;'" .    in ‘ Women’s Tennis 20 0
1: . . . gly 7 83.3 77 ,
. . I ,, CUCUMBERS..sAcHo Scott Robinson 6 83.8 76 g‘§1'}ST“’°“  21;
I ~ . , _ I  I i I E:  Women’s Track 8 4
' '-  V: -  J  .1602  M Men’s Lacrosse 6 4

'- .   .   i  _  ._ "1" ‘A   ‘ ’ ‘1>'IVen’s Tennis 8 8

. -.-_‘.’_   -1   ' -‘ -‘.,'_.‘}-    .    omen’s Lacrosse 6 5

 " ;_.‘-    '     IX ........... ..3 LB. BAG Bmba“ . 8 14

I ..‘""z  ..:"v>'  : I Flslro
LIMIT 24

g\'****ik**************

 

4'' PINTS
STRAWBERRIES PINT

  fGREAT vAu£

 

DI E

COCA-COLA

    ' 21111.
3 I  THE SUMMER.
‘IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILTON

11p‘°°‘pu'c.’1‘?1'1‘31§"1‘o”""‘
ﬁﬁaglgﬂggge __
- mcﬂmw LAND,“ REGULAR on BU1TERMlLK

A DOWNYFLAKE WAFI-'lE$

1902.1 . ’

HARRIS TEE1ER...THE 11551 15 WHAT wm AU. ABO
_  & CONDIHONER IN ONE2  ﬁLEﬁﬁ)E\ﬁRg$;§5B8gEmJT I 82
) PLUS  spun STICK   1-#2

SELECTED VAR|l:T|ES

I Quaker
OH’S 89 KEEBLER -Bl'l'E 69

INFORMATION
SESSION

Tuesday) April 26, 7 p.m.
C-School, Room 327

Applications for Steering
Committee positions will be

 

   

  CEREAL COOKIES
1"~‘1"3°l=1"1i’i'“  '1T‘1i3‘1§‘r"1”‘I"c‘5"11n 189 available.
I  16 oz. 0  EA-

I?

  1

, Prices Effective Through A rt’! 26, 1994 ‘K Questions?  464'8974 ’I’
”"‘o°,:1;'fw“;"1£:£*:e%1‘:eR$1:d1::?r:11 "1%£:“1z1%“sL1s1*:11eé1:':i. I$311;:;:p%::;2s1%2§1°§2.:;:re ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥I’

I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?

******‘Ar*****‘k****‘k‘k**********‘k**‘k

 

 

Last Week:

MLax—F&M 10, W&L 8‘
WLax—W&L 21, Hollins 5
Bas<.LHampden-Sydney 14, W&L 6
MTennis—-Claremont 8, W&L 1

3

PAGE 10

9

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
      
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
 

OIIICII

but it does not
n e c e s s a r i 1 y
have to be nega-
tive.

“Not that we mind being the

out to a 16-2 half-time lead. Jun-
ior Nicole Ripken scored four
times and junior Lindsay
Coleman added three goals and
two assists in the rout.

  
   
    
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
     
    
  
 
  
   
       
   
       
     
    
    
    
 
  

The Generals got two goals
apiece from senior Angie
Carrington, sophomore Cinnie
Logan, and freshmen Carrie
Borish and Amy Shaw as they
improved their conference mark

team to beat,” said Hathom, “but
it is hard to be on top.”

Although W&L’s ﬁve losses
are its most since 1991, Hathom
believes the team will respond to
the position of underdog.

With the exception of a 15-8
loss to Roanoke, the Generals
have not been beaten badly by
anyone. Three losses have been
by one goal, and the other defeat
was a 14-11 defeat at the hands
of Rowan, a top ten team.

@1112 ‘ﬂing-tum iﬁlri

PORTS

LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS, GOLF, BASEBALL

s lax nears playoffs .

to 4-3. Surgery Ripken made an immedia
By _KE'T“ GRANT A win in in late De- impactafterdonningtheunifo
Ph‘ Siaff Wm“ Tuesday’smatch cember to for the first time this season. S
with SweetBriar remove a scored six goals in a 17-13 w’
For the W&L fans thrilled by would send the b e n i g 11 over sweet Brian ,
last year’s Old Dominion Ath- Generals on to brain tumor Her 74 career goa-ls are ju
letic Conference women’s la- next weekend’s kept Ripken four away from moving in
crosse tournament excitement, ODAC semifi- out of fourth p1aoe on W&L’s 311-11
the Liberty Hall Fields has an- nals, hosted by school, 1is1_ Co1ernan 15 right 1,o111
other dose on the way. ’94 regular sea- Despite Ripken with 72 career scores.
WashingtonandLee’swomen son champion losing 20 “She’salot further alongth '
earned a first-round home game L y n c h b u r g. pounds dur- Ithought she’d be,” Hathon sai
versus Sweet Briar when the W&L would ing her Although Ripken’s baa. , th
Generals walloped Hollins Col- thenﬁnditselfin month-long Gerrera15 are 51111 oop1ng W11
lege 21-5 on Tuesday. a position it has stay in the injuries to other players. S0ph(
That win clinched the not been in for hospital , more Cheryl Taurassi is out f
conference’s fourth-place posi— twoyears——con- Rip kc n ’ s the season juniors Sara
tion for the two-time defending ference under- play since Aschenbaoh and Dana Como
ODAC Champs, behind d0g- her April are among several who have ho
Lynchburg, Roanoke, and Head coach llthretumto on-again,off—againinjurieQha
Randolph-Macon. Jan Hathom the team has pering their play. In fact, in t 1
Lynchburg and Roanoke are notes that there been far be. 1055 to Rowan, w&L playe
ranked seventh and eighth re— is a definite dif- yond expec- without two of its nsna1 Srnnon
spectively in Division III ference between rations, Before focusing on Tuesday
women’s lacrosse. being the favor- It has big game, the Generals will be '
W&L (6-5, 5-2 at home) ite and where taken only Frostburg State for two games-
jumped on Hollins early and shot herteam is now, five games a Friday game versus rho; no.

The Generals remain undaunted despite their fourth place entry into the
ODAC tourney.

Another reason to be optimis-
tic is the return to the lineup of
Ripken. The Baltimore native
(Baltimore? Ripken? Yes, they ’re
third cousins.) was the Generals’
second-leading scorer last year
with 37 goals and 16 assists.

 

A14-6 victory over Hampden-Sydney gives the Generals a 8-14 overall record.

Baseball learning

By PHIL CARROTI‘
Phi Steff Writer

Generals baseball may be the
only spring sport without at least
a .500 record, but that isn’t get-
ting them down.

Sophomore Graig Fantuzzi
said the team is young and still
developing.

“We need to find the right
winning attitude; it just hasn’t
mixed yet,” Fantuzzi said.

Their 14-6 loss Wednesday to
Hampden-Sydney brought their
record to 7-15-1, a .318 percent-

age. Fantuzzi said, “We should
have won that game; we were a
little ﬂat.”

Coach Jeff Stickley said when
“Good pitching, good defense,
and timely hitting come together,
when we do that, we win.”

Stickley said that the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference is
very strong in base ball this year,
but is a very even and tough
conference.. ‘

“It [ODAC] is more balanced
than in the past,” Stickley said.

Saturday, the Generals face
Guilford for a double-header and
conclude their season with a

Tuesday game against VMI.

Fantuzzi, the Generals star
batter with a .571 average, said
the team has become stronger as
the year has progressed. A

He said the number of return-
ing players should make the team
stronger next year.

Fantuzzi alsovsaid the pitch-
ing has improved over the course
of the year.

“We need more depth in the
pitching staff for next year,”
Fantuzzi said.

‘‘If we could pick up one or
two more pitchers next year, that
would add depth.’~’

Carpe Diem-

Seize the day and seize
the opportunity. Join the
Ring-tum Phi as a sports
writer: This could A be the
ultimate chance to find a
use for all that extra time
Spring Term.  
  Contact Stephen Williard
at 462-4060‘.

Men’s Tennis

While most Washington
and Lee students sat idely
through spring break, the
Mens Tennis team pulled
through a tough road trip in
California.

Although four out of their

five opponents were nation-
ally ranked, the ,Generals
managed two wins and three
losses. The team started
strong, clobbering Occiden-
tal 8-1, then lost to fourth
ranked Redlands, sixth ranked
U.C. San Deigo, and third
ranked Claremont.
A The biggest upset of the
trip was W&L’s 5-4 defeat of
ninth ranked Ponoma—Pitzer.
Chris MacNaughton upset
twety-seventh ranked Brian
Sakamoto 4-6,6-4, 6-4, while
the No. 2 doubles team of
David Shewppe and Andy
Horan clinched victory for the
Generals with their 6-4,1-6,
7-5 victory.

It was senior Robby
MacNaughton, and his 4-1
record in singles play, how-
ever, who stole the show. He
defeated ninth ranked Todd
Born of Redlands in straight
sets, and twenty-second
ranked John Cross of U.C.
San Diego in three.

In doubles play, the team
of Mac Naughton and Peter

Todd Born and Mike Mell 6-
3, 6-3, and came close to heat-
ing top-ranked Claremont.
The Generals next match

tournament.

   

Franklin and Marshall.

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  

This Week:
Track—ODAC Championship 04/23"
MLax—at Guilford O4/23
WLax—vs. Denison (at Frostburg)
Base—at Guilford 04-23

APRIL 22, 1‘

for the junior
to jump to
fourth on the
team in scor-
ing with 14 goals and five as-

and a Saturday affair again
Denison, with whom Hatho
began her coaching career.

In her ﬁve seasons at Deniso
Hathom accumulated a 55-1

File photo

Hammond defeated the sec-.
ond ranked Redlands team of

comes today, in the ODAC

sists.
“[Having her back] has been
really important,” said Hathom.
“Aside from the obvious inspi-
ration to see her back, she’s a
solid player, a team player.”

J oCKSHoRTs

Women’s Tennis

The Generals continued their
exciting season with a victory
over 10th ranked Sewanee which
gave them the second 20 win
season in the school’s history.

In the course of the victory,
junior Marilyn Baker became
the first player in W&L history
to record three straight 20 win
seasons. The W&L standout
has posted a 20-2 record on the
year to date.

The team has shot their way
to a number two national rank-
ing and an even more remark-
able undefeated record. The
team began play in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
tournament yesterday.

The team has received con-
tributions all around. The team ’s
sixth seed has posted a formi-
dable 16-3 mark and Kim
Dickinson ’s replacement for the

ODAC tournament has posted a
6-0 mark on the year. Also, the
three doubles teams have posted
a combined record of 34-10
through the season.

Men’s Lax

The Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team fell to 13th
in the latest national poll after an
upset at the hands of Franklin

Marshall.

The Generals lost 10-8 on
Saturday in Lancaster, Pennsyl-
vania in a game in which the
Generals led 8-7 with 12 minutes

to go.

The W&L squad fell behind
early 4-0 before rallying to take a

7-5 lead in the third quarter.

record and five straight trips
the Division III toumameot.

For fans who can’t make it t
Tuesday’s playoff with Swc
Briar,WLUR-Lexington will -
carrying the game live.

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  

Colin Higgins led the team
with three goals and an assist
in the contest, and senior
David Jones made eight saves
after replacing freshman I9oug
Gubner in the first quarter af-
ter Gubner was injured.

Senior midfielder Scott
Mackley has scored at least
one goal in each of his last
eight games after not scoring
in his first two contest§and
has 13 in the last six.

Ande Jenkins leads the
Generals in scoring for the
yearwith 28 points on 23 goals
and 5 assists.

Higgins trails Mackley by
a mere one point in the acor-
ing race with 27 points on 16
goals and 11 assists.

Ty Tydings is also in the
hunt with 26 points on 10 goals

and 16 assists.
W&L, now 6-4 on the sea-
son, will face Old Domﬁiion
Athletic Conference foe
Guilford tomorrow.
The Generals have two
games remaining including
the Lee-Jackson Classic
against VMI.
The upcoming me
against Washington Co lege
will also be a home contest.

    
 

 

 

The men's lacrosse team moved to 6-4 on the season with an upset los: t ~

  

