VOLUME 93, NO. 20

EC votes
to nix
fee hike

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

‘(I

The Executive Committee
voted at an emergency meeting
on Wednesday not to recom-
mend an increase in student ac-
tivities fees to the Board of Trust-
ees for next year, in part because
it might make the committee look
bad.

“At this stage in the game, it
would make this committee look
iﬁesponsible if we hashed this
thing out three days before (the
trustees’ meeting),” said EC
President Robert Tompkins.

Tompkins also said Univer-
sity Treasurer Lawrence
Broomall had already been told
t e EC would not recommend an
increase in activity fees.

After its regular meeting on
Monday, Tompkins met with EC
Vice President Jimmy Kull and
EC representatives Keith
Benedict and Alex Cross to dis-
cuss the possibility of increasing
the fees for next year. According
to Tompkins, Cross called for
the emergency meeting to ex-
plain why he supported an in-
crease and to gather support for
his motion for an increase.

The motion came just two
cﬁys after Calyx co-editors An-
thony Catalano and Sarah Butler
appeared before the EC to update
the committee on their budget
woes. Butler said W&L’s year-
book will end the year almost
$11,000 in the red.

‘G “Our major costs are publish-
ing costs,” said Catalano.

Butler said the Calyx is locked
into a contract with their pub-
lisher for the next three years.

‘- This fixes the cost of publishing

and rules out the possibility of
tlﬁ yearbook looking forcheaper
publishing alternatives.

“The bulk of our revenues
have already come in,” said But-
ler.

Cross said the EC had an ad-
ditional $20,000 in its reserve at
thg beginning of budget hearings
this year because of money re-
turned to the EC by the now-
defunct Student Telephone
Union. Cross said he felt this
windfall would lead campus
groups to expect the same amount
0 oney next year, when the EC
wr l have less money than it had
this year. He said an increase of

II» See EC FEE, page 5

‘Whistle wile you work

Fancy Dress Construction Chairman Joe Framptom and worker Tory
Noto work on decorations for the Fancy Dress Ball. Hammers, nails and
lots of workers will be involved in the construction of FD decorations
next week. Framptom said the Constuction Committee will use over _
$6000 worth of lumber to build a variety of structures for the Ball.

I. -1 ea Ij’l*\?l"'./if i:l}}il 
 «‘~. -2-as.-.a'I

   I994‘

A Magical Carpet Ride

See our special Fancti Dress stlpplclncnl

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Francesca Kefalas, The Ring-tum Phi

Patricia Russell McCloud spoke in Lee Chapel for Black History Month.

McCloud sounds alarm  

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

An alarm clock sound symbolized the urgency
of Black History Month Speaker Patricia Russell
McCloud’s message.

McCloud spoke on the theme, “Vision 2000:
Celebrating the Differences.” The main focus of
her speech was the strong need for diversity in
higher education, workplace and one’s life.

One of her trademarks is the alarm clock sound
she makes during her speech.

“I think people need demonstrative demonstra-
tions of urgency,” she said. “Italerts them. Ithought
an alarm clock would be a good indicator for that.”

McCloud’s speech in Lee Chapel Tuesday was
sponsored by the Minority Student Association, the
Black Law Student Association and Contact.

In her speech she stressed the need to eliminate
the two “isms” in American society — racism and
sexism. She said she saw no need to be politically
correct if people are not willing to deal with the

hoto by etsy reen,

e ' ing-tum '

problems of crime, poverty and discrimination. She
said it was up to Washington and Lee students and
others to help pull someone else up.

McCloud graduated from Kentucky State Uni-
versity. She then graduated from Howard Law
School and went on to intensive law studies at
Harvard Law School. She said she practiced tele-
communications law. She said she speaks full time
as a professional orator and owns Russell McCloud
Associates.

McCloud said her mother inspired heras a speaker
by speaking well herself. She said she got her start
in the church which led to various oratorical con-
tests.

She said she decided to pursue law as a way of
helping people.

“I thought law would be a good way to help
people handle their problems,” said McCloud.

McCloud said she wants to encourage people to
develop strategies for action.

“People need to be informed with new informa-
tion and empowered to act upon it,” she said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 25, 1994

Death shocks  
aw school

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Surprised and shocked, Washington and Lee
law students remembered the “brilliant” life of
Jack Litz in a memorial service Feb. 23.

Litz, a second-year student from Kingsport,
Tenn., shot himself in his Staunton home Feb. 15.
He was 23.

His friends and professors said Litz was smart
and personable.

“I was impressed with his insight and intelli-
gence,” said Professor Louise Halper, who taught
two of Litz’s classes. “I absolutely would not have
imagined this for a moment.”

Second-year student Tom Yoder, a friend of
Litz, agreed.

“He was very intelligent,” Yoder said. “He was
just very funny, very ﬂamboyant among us. There
was no indication of this; we all got taken by
surprise.”

Even fellow students who were considerably
older than Litz held a lot of respect for him.

“‘Maturity’ or ‘common sense’ keeps coming
back to describe what I felt about him,” said
second-year student John, Loehr, who is 39. ‘‘I
talked to him more as somebody my age.”

Classmate Garret Estep said that Litz could talk

circles around fellow students.

‘‘In classes he never took notes, he’d just draw
pictures in his notebook,” Estep said. “He’d look
like he’d be asleep, and then he’d look around and
say the most intelligent things.”

Though Litz was involved in several activities,
including Habitat for Humanity, the College Demo-
crats, the Phi Alpha Delta law fraternity and his
church choir, friends said he always had time for
them.

“He was multi-talented. and he made time to do
a lot of things, like take Spanish classes,” said
Yoder. “But he always took time to sit down and
talk to us. He was pretty_close.”

Loehr said his life would be missing something
without Litz.

“He was one of the people whom I was glad l’d
met in this life,” Loehr said. ‘‘I’m sad that l’ll have
to go on without him.”

His first-semester roommate, first-year student
Preston Came, said Litz spent very little time in
their Woods Creek apartment.

“He was a wonderfully personable guy, but he
was just so busy,” said Came. “We had no indica-
tion that anything was wrong.”

Came said that Litz moved to Staunton to live

it See DEATH, page 5



new Rush plans

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

The lnterfraternity Council
continues its deliberations over
potential Rush calendars for next
year.

Two plans will be submitted
in their ﬁnal form to each frater-
nity. IFC will vote next Tuesday
on which plan will be sent on for
consideration by the Student Af-
fairs Committee.

One plan, submitted by junior
Adam Plotkin, moves all Rush
dates to the days of the new fall
vacation.

Plotkin said the plan would
have the smallest impact on both
Rushees’ and Actives’ academic
lives.

In Plotkin’s plan, informal fra-
ternity orientations would be held
before classes begin.

“They wouldn’t be open
houses in the traditional sense,”
Plotkin said. “Rush wouldn’t start
right after them.”

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

he said.

Security Officer Thomas Bane agreed.

tion.

said.

end, Young said.

and Friday’s dance.

the weekend as well.

US6 common sense.

6

Just about everyone at Washington and
Lee is preparing for next weekend’s Fancy
Dress Ball, and W&L Security is no excep-

“As faras the amount of work we have
to do, this is probably our biggest
weekend,” Security Director Mike Young

Seven additional security officers will
work long hoursthrough the four-day week-

Security’s main FD duty, he said, is to
provide a safe party atmosphere for students.
Young aims to do this by maintaining a
degree of order both at Thursdayfs concert

Security officers will be on duty the rest of

“We just want to be safe,” Young said.
“We don’t want them to go to jail. We don’t
want them to go to the hospital.”

The most common problem at FD is alco-
hol abuse, Young said. He urged students to

‘‘I know that people are going to drink.
I would like them to drink responsibly,”

their dates this year.

He saidin over21 years,
he’s seen too many men
get drunk and neglect to
see theirdates home safely.

W&L Security recom-

After this orientation, the fra-
ternities would have to abide by
regular IFC rules: only four
weekend parties and two
Wednesday parties per month.
Atkins said the fraternities could
circumvent this restriction by

having parties sponsored by more
than one house. Traditional Rush
events, such as skeet shoots and
pig roasts, would be restricted to
weekends under Plotkirt’s plan.

In» See RUSH, page 5

Below: Fraternity actives and Rushees gather

before open houses in the freshman quad.

File photo ’

Security gussies up for FD

Young boosts force’s numbers for weekend

- Leave your cigarettes at home Thurs-

mended some additional

general tips to make your

FD weekend trouble-free:

cated.
' There will

plan to drink.

be a beer
Thursday’s concert. Bring your ID if you

° Leave your alcohol at
home. lt’s not allowed in
the Pavilion or in the gym.
Any open containers or flasks will be conﬁs-

day night. They aren’t allowed in the Stu-
“I think if they would drink a little bit less, dent Activities paviii0n_ .
they’d have a world of fun,” Bane said.
He advised students to
drink more on Thursday
and Saturday if they want
to, but less on Friday night
so they can enjoy the dance.
Bane also said he would
like to see W&L men have
more consideration for

° Don’t forget your ticket. You won’t be

allowed to enter an
event without a ticket
for it.

' Get your ticket for
Thursday’s concert
early. Young said he
expects a large local
turnout and thinks the
tickets will go quickly.

' If you drink too
much and can’t find a
ride, don‘t drive. A
drunk in public charge
is better than a driving
under the influence
charge.

° “If you need some-
thing, come and ask
me,” Bane said. “I can’t

help you if you don’t ask.”
° Security will be at the front door both

Thursday and Friday evening. Their phone

garden at

extension is #8427.
° Be careful and responsible.

° Have fun.

    

 The Nation.»

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

Federal jury awards damages
to Philippine torture victims

A federal jury awarded $1.2 billion in damages to 10,000
Filipinos who were tortured during the reign of former
Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos. Marcos declared
martial law in his country from 1972 until his government
was overthrown in 1986.

CIA veteran and wife charged

with selling secrets to Soviet Union

The Justice Department Tuesday charged 31-year Central
Intelligence Agency veteran Aldrid Ames and his wife
Rosario with selling national security secrets to Moscow
starting in 1985. Officials said Ames’ alleged betrayal
resulted in the deaths of at least two Soviet officials who
spied for the U.S. According to the Justice Dept., Ames
began spying for the Soviets in 1985 as chief of the Soviet
Counterintelligence Bureau of the CIA’s Soviet-East Euro-
pean Division.

Cease-fire signed in Bosnia

Muslim and Croat leaders signed a cease-fire that shows
promise for peace in Bosnia. The cease-fire begins Friday at
noon for central Bosnia, the city of Mostar, and other areas
where Muslims and Croats have been fighting.

Rebels, Mexican government
reach agreement on Indians

Mexican rebels and the Mexican government have reached
an agreement regarding the rebels’ demands for better treat-
ment of Indians. After three days of negotiations, the two
sides reached an agreement dealing with health, housing,
education and “respect and dignity” for Indians in Mexico.
The Zapatistas seized Mexican towns beginning January 1.
After 12 days and 100 deaths, the government declared a

cease fire.
‘#3? 5*’
=-

Obese woman files discrimination
suit against movie theater

   

In a test of the Americans with Disabilities Act, Tennesseean
Deborah Birdwell went to court Thursday to try to force
theaters to accommodate obesity. Birdwell is filing a lawsuit
after a cinema manager prohibited her from bringing her own
chair into the theater. Birdwell was not able to fit into a
regular theater seat. The government declared in November
that the morbidly obese are protected from discrimination
under the act without consideration of whether their weight
stems from disease or poor diet.

Kerrigan gets deal With Walt
Disney Co. for TV story

The Walt Disney Co. has made a deal with figure skater
Nancy Kerrigan for a TV story of her life, a children’s book,
and theme park appearances. Disney officials said the deal,
which was made for an undisclosed sum, is not contingent on
her performance in the Olympics. Kerrigan is currently in
first place after Wednesday night’s women’s figure skating
technical program.

McDonalds, fast food restaurants
endorse smoking ban legislation

Fast food restaurants gave their endorsements Wednesday
for legislation banning smoking in most commercial facili-
ties, in an effort to provide customers with a smoke-free
environment. McDonald’s 1400 company-owned restau-
rants are among those that will be smoke-free. McDona1ds is
also suggesting its franchise owners adopt a smoke-free
policy in their restaurants.

The State

Virginia Tech budget cuts may
result in lost jobs

 

Virginia Tech may cut 30 jobs from its Cooperative
Extension Service. The extension service’s budget will
likely be cut by $1 million in each of the next two years. The
cuts are due to cuts in Virginia Tech’s budget made by the
General Assembly. Committees will decide how to bridge
the gaps between House and Senate versions of the state
budget next week. The General Assembly session ends on
March 12.

op ,

A " Iivvo Sundays ago. Flint lost six pints of blood and was

The Ri

 

n -tum Phi F

Colonization plans delayed,  

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer

A ﬁfth sorority may be coming to
the Washington and Lee campus soon
— but not next year.

Dean of Students David Howison
said the Panhellenic Council voted to
not move for a ﬁfth sorority to colonize
next year. Colonization consists of the
W&L campus inviting a sorority or a
fraternity to establish a chapter here.

Howison said Rush procedures
needed to be reﬁned.

Panhellenic president Elise Brown
agreed.

“We want to work out the kinks in
our own Greek system ﬁrst,” she said.

Brown said although she was
pleased with this year’s Rush, next
year’s Rush is Panhellenic’s main con-
cern. She said they want the function-
ing chapters to be at their best level.

She said this year’s Rush had up-
dated rules on contact rules between
actives and freshman women. Thanks
to implementation of National
Panhellenic’s recommendations, she
said there will be a better clariﬁcation

of the rules for next year’s Rush.

“We’re continuing to make Rush as
inclusive as possible,” said Brown.

She said another reason Panhellenic
is not planning to colonize another
sorority is due to the Gaines Revital-
ization plan to convert loft suites for
sorority and Women’s Forum meet-
ings.

Howison said he will present the
plan to the Board of Trustees on Fri-
day, Feb. 25 at their Houston, Texas
meeting. The Board of Trustees will
then approve a budget and leave it to
the administration to implement it as

they see ﬁt.

Howison said the primary reason
for bringing another sorority to cam-
pus is the interest in another sorority
was high. He said the establishment
would give women more choices ané
would reduce the average number of
members in each sorority to a manage-
able number.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy “Buddy” Atkins
said the average number of members in
each sorority is over 100. He said 66
percent of W&L women are in sorori-
ties.

Atkins said the goal for’ the long

Women sign up for sorority Rush. Eventually, the Panhellenic Council wants to increase

.“é:$

‘go!

the number of sororities on campus in order to give women more of a choice.

Youth stabbed in Stop-In lot-

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

A Lexington youth stabbed on Feb. 13 is expected
to leave Stonewall Jackson Hospital today.

Shawn Flint, 17, suffered a punctured diaphragm
and lung when he was stabbed twice in the abdomen

in critical condition upon arrival at the hospital.

Adam Lotts, 17, is charged with stabbing Flint. A
16-year-old juvenile is charged with being an acces-
sory to the crime. Police have not released his name
because of his age.

Flint underwent surgery after the incident and said
Wednesday he is recovering well.

“Now l’m pretty much okay,” Flint said from his
hospital room telephone.

Flint said as soon as he can stomach whole foods,
he will be released.

Flint said Lotts mistook him that Sunday after-
noon for a friend Lotts had argued with the previous

night. Flint’s friend wanted to ﬁght Lotts, Flint said,
because Lotts had beaten up his own girlfriend.

Ofﬁcials are holding Lotts and the juvenile at a
detention center, Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard
said. Lotts is charged with malicious wounding. If
convicted of the class three felony, botts faces ﬁve to
20 years in prison and up to a $100,000 ﬁne.

Stop-In Food Store officials would not comment
about the incident, which occurred near the back gas
pumps of their North Main Street store. Police said a
store clerk reported the stabbing, however.

Flint related his side of the story over the phone.

Sunday afternoon, Flint said, Lotts and the juve-
nile approached him as he exited the convenience
store.

“When I walked out, he said ‘You’re the white
boy that was talking to me last night,’ and that’s when
we got into it,” Flint said.

He said Lotts lunged at him and stabbed him once.
Flint threw four or ﬁve punches, he said, then stopped
because he couldn’t breathe. Lotts then stabbed him
once more, he said.

term would be to colonize two more
sororities. He said it would not be
feasible to colonize two sororities si-
multaneously. He said in the past, om
sorority usually succeeds and one fails.

Brown said when Panhellenic starts
its search foranother sorority, they will
focus on strong national sororities.
Brown said they will consult a variety
of sources including Atkins and will
also do research on other chapters t’:
figure out the best sororities to come
W&L. On the idea of bringing an
historically black sorority to campus,
she said they have not broached the
subject. She said the only criterion
they are considering is a strong na-
tional group.

She said the search would not ptC-
clude the possibility of an historically
black sorority. However, she said
Panhellenic wants sororities that are
competitive and on an equal level.

Melissa Byrd, Panhellenic delegate
and member of Kappa Kappa Gamma,
supports the idea of another sororhy
but not next year.

“We need to strengthen the ones we
have here,” she said. “I don’t think it (a
new sorority) would succeed if we
brought another one here next year.”
Pi Beta Phi member Julie Ayers
agreed. 6

“We need to make sure that the

I->See PANHEL, page 5

file photo

Flint said he didn’t realize what had happened
until Lotts told him.

“He said ‘I stuck you.’ That’s when I looked
down and saw blood on me,” Flint said.

Flint also had a knife. When he reached for it,«'ge
said, Lotts and his accomplice turned and ran.

While doctors attended to Flint’s wounds over the;
Hex‘ 24 ll°U,r.$..L9tts.aml.thcjuxﬁnile hid. .. ‘

They turned themselves’ in about 10 p.m. Mdn-l _

day, Beard said, and have remained in custody since
then.

Beard said the crime concerned him. .

“It’s a serious crime for the city of Lexington,” he
said. “lt’s been a good while since we’ve had a crime
of the nature reported to us.”

Chief Beard said he hopes this is an isolated
incident.

Flint wouldn’t argue with that.

He said when he grabbed his knife, he didn’t want A

to stab Lotts.
‘‘If he would’ve come back at me, yes, I would’ve,”
he said, “but I just don’t go out and stick people.”

Trustees

to meet
this week

By PHIL CARROTT
Phi Staff Writer

Right now, the Washington and Lee
Board ofTrustees is enjoying the Texas
sun in Houston at their annual Febru-
ary meeting.

Most signiﬁcantly, the trustees will
be deciding how much tuition will be
for the 1994-1995 school year. Ac-
cording to A. Stevens Miles, Univer-
sity Rector, the trustees want to “hold
tuition down to the inﬂation rate. . . and
increase financial aid while attending
to opportunities to control costs and the
possibility of using other funds for
financial aid.”

The trustees will also be deciding if
the new science facility will need to
have a bond issue. The architects are
currently ﬁnishing the plans for the
building. The bonds will cover the cost
of the building until gifts are made to
the university to pay off the bonds plus
interest.

Executive Committee President
Robert Tompkins will review the
progress of the White Book Review
committee, any honor activity up until
now, and recommend a change to the
way the IFC and the SAC are con-
nected.

“The relationship of the SAC and
the IFC is not the most beneﬁcial rela-
tionship —- it is not structured in a way
to achieve the goals of both the IFC and
the SAC. There needs to be more coop-
eration between them, their goals
should not be retribution and deterence
but rehabilitation.”

In addition, the trustees will be
briefed on the meningococcal infec-
tion on campus, will review sorority
Rush, the upcoming reunion classes,
the investment portfolio of the univer-
sity, and the Phi Gamma Delta case.

The trustees will be meeting Friday
and Saturday and again in May.

-I;

ﬁle photo »

This sketch shows what the completed science center at Washington and Lee will look
like. The Lexington City Council must give its approval before construction can begin.

Science center gets OK

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editorr

The Lexington City Planning Com-
mission voted unanimously to approve
Washington and Lee’s site plan for
renovation of Parmly and Howe Halls.

The vote came during the ice and
snow storm that hit Lexington two
weeks ago. Planning Commission
chairman James Gianniny said few
people made it to the meeting because
of the weather.

“The meeting was interesting,”
Gianniny said. “We continued, every-
thing we did because if there was any
public interest they wouldn’t have got-

ten there. Most of us [planning com-
mission members] walked.”

The plan outlines extensive exterior
and interior renovation of Parmly and
Howe Halls, including the addition of
a glass atrium that would connect the
two buildings.

An additional hearing was held
Thursday to allow a chance for com-
ments by those who couldn’t make it to
the ﬁrst meeting because of the weather.
At the Thursday meeting, the commis-
sion discussed the issue of possible
parking space problems during the con-
struction period.

Gianniny said the planning
commission’s recommendation must
now be approved by the city council

before W&L can begin construction on
the facility.
Gianniny said he did not know the

expected starting date for the construc- .

IIOD. .

W&L Coordinator of Capital Plan-
ning Frank Parsons could not be reached
by telephone calls to his ofﬁce and
home.

Gianniny added that W&Lneed only
wait for the approval of the Lexington
City Council before proceeding \-‘ith
the renovation plans.

‘‘If council approves then W&L can
go ahead,” he said.

Staﬂ Writer Michael Hewlett con-
tributed to this story.

0

 

  
 

  
 

By HILLARY OLSON
Phi Assistant Features Editor

Seventy one high school seniors will be on campus Thursday through
Saurday for the annual Honor Scholarship Weekend arranged by the Admissions
Ofﬁce to attract the most impressive prospective students from around the nation.

The prospectives will be matched with both a freshman housing host and an
upperclass student recruitment host who will eat meals with the prospectives and
entertain them between their scheduled interviews and activities.

The freshman host will house the prospective in his or her dorm room so the
_ student can get a feel for dorm life. The student recruitment host will give the
prﬁpective an older view of campus life, and spend most meal times with the
visitors.

Rob Aliff, director of the program for his third year, said 44 of the 71 students
will ﬂy into Roanoke Airport since some are arriving from as far away as
California and Nova Scotia, Canada. He said that the number of scholarships
offered to prospectives varies from year to year, but typically 15 to 20 full—tuition
honor scholarships are offered.

if he Board of Trustees, who are meeting Thursday in Houston, Texas, will
~ de rde the admissions’ budget and the amount of scholarship dollars available for
next year.

Aliff said probably numerous merit—based awards would be offered from
$2000 and up. He added many students are also possible winners of National
Merit Scholarships, which awards an additional $2750.

Most students arrive Thursday afternoon, have a tour with their hosts and
receive an official welcome "

mm Associate Director of
Admissions, Dan Murphy.
After a day of informal
panel discussions about
academic life and visits to
various classes designed
speciﬁcally for each pro-
spttive, the visitors are
scheduled to attend a cho-
ral concert in DuPont Au-
ditorium featuring South-
ern Comfort, JubiLee and
General Admission Friday
night.
€‘he weekend nights
have been consciously left
open for hosts to give the
students a true—to-life view
of social happenings at
Washington and Lee.
A day full of admis-
sicus, faculty and student
' interviews awaits the

prospectives on Saturday.
' Aliff said the inter-
views are basically the sole

the nation.

would be respectable, he said.

students to get a feel for W&L.

 

I
:2 ‘F -   ‘
- Ike Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1994 V 6 L 1 E

Scholarship finalists enjoy WSLL weekend

arrive on campus this weekend “basically with a blank slate.” He said

“Our aim is to ﬁnally meet these students who literally do it all, for it is difficult
to get any feel for them just on paper,” Aliff said.

He said the scholars will be selected when the faculty, student and admission
panels rank each student as either a one (must-have applicant), two (good, solid
possibility) or three (less competitive.)

PAGE 3

weekend fraternity parties. She said “Our room is a total mess, but we can clear;
a space for her on the floor.” She said her visit last year “did it for me. I knew‘
I wanted to come here.” 
Elizabeth Bahn said her greatest fear is her prospective “might meet some- ;
body Saturday night and miss her ﬂight back home Sunday morning.” ,
An Open House Weekend for those students who applied for honor scholar-,

Students with the most impressive overall scores, usually two one’s and a two,
are offered the largest financial awards, Aliff said.

Aliff said these students are the most difficult group to recruit
“because they can basically go anywhere they want.” He said they
probably will be offered scholarships at some of the top colleges in

If 25% of the students from this weekend return next year, that ~

Aliff said the purpose of this weekend is not only for the
university to examine and evaluate the prospectives, but also for the

Several of the freshman housing hosts named their weekend
visiting experience at W&L as the deciding factor in their decision
to attend. Most of them got a taste of Greek life during their visit.
Memories of their own prospective experiences are main reasons
for most of the housing hosts’ deciding to participate this year.

Freshman Ashley Amini said she volunteered for the program
because she wants to share her love for the school with others who
might attend. “My room will be clean by tomorrow, I promise!” she
said. Wendy Finelli plans to take her prospective student to some

ships but did not make the ﬁnal round is scheduled for March 17-20.

basis for scholarship deci-
sions among the 71 stu-
degts. He said the students

Photo By Ethan Krupp, The tn-tum Phi

Freshman Housing Host and Student Recruitment Committee members sit in duPont
Auditorium for the ﬁnal breifing before the arrival of Honor Scholarship Finalist.

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
  

’ Pho b Ethan Krupp, Th Ring-turn Phi 

Rob Aliff explains what Freshman Housing Hosts and Student Re-
cruitment Committee members can expect from the Honor Scholar-
ship Weekend. Aliff is in charge of the special recruitment weekends. 5

Campus Paperback Bestsellers ’ _ . . . .
1. The Days‘: “re Just Packed, by Bill Watterson. (Andrews &McNeel, $12.95.) More “Calvin and Hobbes” ’ ‘

cartoons.

. The Pelican Brief, by John Grisham. (Dell, $6.99.) Law student finds herself on the run from the killers of two
Supreme Court Justices.

. The Far Side Gallery 4, by Gary Larson. (Andrews &McMeel, $12.95.) Collection of cartoons.

. MTV’s Beavis and Butt-Head, by Sam Johnson and Chris Marcil. (MTV/Callaway/Pocket, $10.00.) Cartoons.

The Remains of the Day, by Kazuo lshiguro. (Vintage, $11.00.) English butler recalls his many years of service.

The Chickens are Restless, by Gary Larson. (Andrews & McMeel, $8.95.) New collection of cartoons.

Young Men and Fire, by Norman Maclean. (University of Chicago, $10.95.) Story of the catastrophic Montana

forest fire in 1949.

. The Killer Angels, by Michael Shaara. (Ballantine, $5.99.) Dramatic recreation of The Battle of Gettysburg.

. The Way Things Ought To Be, by Rush Limbaugh. (Pocket Star, $6.50.) Controversial issues-—that’s
Limbaugh territory.

10. The Joy Luck Club, by Amy Tan. (Ivy, $5.99.) Destinies of Chinese immigrant women and their Chinese-

American daughters.

:3

coo ‘_\r_os_u-aw

New & Recommended
1. The Children of Men, P.D. James (Warner, $6.50.) Orwellian tale of a world where no child can ever be born
again and the choices people make when life deprives them of hope for a future.
2. Daughters of/ifrica, by Margaret Busby, Ed.. (Balantine, $18.00.) International anthology of words and
writings by women of African descent from the ancient Egyptian to the present.
3. This Little Light of Mine, by Kay Mills. (Plume, $12.95.) Moving biography of Fannie Lou Hamer who
dedicated her life to the Civil Rights Movement. An inspiring testimony to the power of the individual.
0

On February 19, 1944, The Columns reported that the
Vagabonds were chosen as the band to play at the
Washington and Lee Spring Fromal on Saturday, March
4. The Vagabonds had played at VMl and they were
featured at the Washinton and Lee Fall Formal. That
year’s decoration motif was the color combination soft
green and white, also similar to the Fall Formal. Tickets
were on sale for $2.00 during the advance ticket drive and
$2.50 at the door.

The Ring-T um Phi reported on February 18, 1969,
that Senator George McGovern, a Democrat from South
Dakota, spoke before a crowd of more than 600 in bee
Chapel. His speech was titled “The Limitations of Power”
and it addressed, among other things, his nagative views
concerning the United State’s involvement in the Viet-
nam conﬂict. He believed that the United States should
exercise more caution in its foreign policy in the future.
McGovern also spoke of his views on the military draft.
He believed that the current recruitment system should
be made voluntary rather than the current draft system.

V’ For iJfh7eiW&1}“A 1'Re.'c"lord ” M '

On February 23, 1984, the Phi reported that John W.
Elrod, former chairman of the Department of Philosophy
at Iowa State University was named Dean of the College,
effective August 1. »

He succeeded William J. Watt who had held the
position since 1971. Elrod was chosen from amoung 200
candidates by a committee comprised of nine members
headed by President Wilson.

On February 23, 1989, the Phi announced the theme
to the 82nd annual Fancy Dress Ball. It was “An Evening
Excursion on the Orient Express.”

According to the New York Times, since 1907, the
Fancy Dress Ball has grown into “the biggest collegiate
social event in the South.” The Fabulous Waller Family
opened for B.B. King. The Student Activities Board put
over 1600 hours into preparation for the 1989 Fancy
Dress Ball which featured ﬂags from all seven countries
in which the legendary train travels, a facade of a train
station, and many other intricacies from the travels of the
Orient Express.

Compiled by JAY WHm-: of the Phi Staff

 

F.D. PROFILE #19:
THE STAG

('Badhreathisbettertbannobreath.:za1L'Q

  
   

Ah, to be under those
spotlights right now...

His dates tonight:
Kodiak. Schlitz,
and Sega.

F .D. PROFILE #2:
i THE INCOMPATIBLES

(FoLEs,thisiswhytber:aretabl¢3ind2egym.)

  

EA?!’ L-BK ts $1!-L-

3’: WON DIE IF

    
 
  
 
 
  

He hates her.
0 O
0 ‘Do 7 V She ham him.
He can ,t “O? mm-WW“ {—-——————i .
d - ~ _ She can t stop
nnkmg thinking about
why he am’:
stop dvinking.
Can you ﬁnd
thefour
"budeup" ﬂasks?
The: chair’:
gonna tip over / J
and he’: going .

to lessen eye.

 

 

 

    

E PAGE 4

0“ H12 mark by Mark Parisi

 

W&LIF E

Bound & Gagged by Dana

The Riirg-tum Phi, February 25,1

Summers

      
 

I

2 ALL RlGHT, ALL RKSHT.’

     
       
    

 omen, A MOVlE AND
3: A DOZEN ROSES... Now
 rum ME oVER.’.’

 

_.-£ﬂ‘.}Z'>’ “‘*" 

    

6109? MARK PARISV

Colonnade Crossword

Further proof of a benevolent god: Yr
teenager thinks thrift stores are cool.

by Jeff MacNe11

   
  

©1991o T.'i'a-me Mediz Services. inc. / Pkggers,  . . . .gf1ls Reserved.

 

 
 
 
  

 

    
    

X = AMouN 1:-oi:
TAKES DARLA To Zgﬁgw V 1

Y:A/v\ouNT op 17/we rr ,
TAKE9 VAVE TO DEVELOP A :
COUCH-g/L959 BALLt€TicALLt’
BAD Arriruviz. I .1

ll
,1

 

  
     

 
    
     
 
   

3 1 Kg I'M REALLY,

l,‘ /‘ﬂog ‘\‘\.\ REALLY ALMOST READY.
I REL-AT;0NSHHE? 5' l ' K?/

l ALGEBKA ; ' .

i. X Y 

l . i

 
 
    
 
 

   
 
    
     
      
      
  

   

ACROSS
1 Seaweed
5 Fancy dances
| 10 Peat —
' 14 Cornucopia
15 Benefit
16 Seed
appendage
17 Extended
narrative poem
18 Explosive stuff
19 Hackman
20 Ways
22 Got even
24 Edible bulb
26 — de cologne
27 Stand for a hot ’
 dish
30 Salve
35 Lamarr and

BY

 
  
  
  

NON ﬁﬂllﬂﬁ

   

 

/ ’ ,}/1”’ 1
-7 ,-'= -" , » . m __
\ , ‘ ere-74 wLsan.is-.’oi:i Po$'r wR.\‘\’5'i2$ G290? \\/lLEy

  
    
   
   
  
  
  

Jzouwoé NlCE‘DEN?, BUT

-« 4- AFTER ‘{o\)‘VL TAKEN @i\CK ,
 A Til? N\é\>~‘Vi \N\3.h'Y 90 YOU

LNTEND "b D0 \N\’Yl-\ n ?

’/7,. ‘yr vw, ‘ ‘ .
:7" "IV ' ‘ ‘ "‘ ll -'
'.y'rIf_/,'i:’.., 5 ,ll;'-‘ ' '

-.v .'~r

  
  
 
  

   

others

36 Knitting stitch
37 Dilatory

38 —— Baba

39 Sprightly

40 Contend

41 New Mexico city
43 Rainbow @1994 Tribune M

44 pinnacle All Rights Rese v
46 Signs of illness

48 Pestered in fun 10 Big bottles for
-19 Operated liquor

50 Port-au-Prince's 11 A state: abbr.

   

   

 

Services. Inc

     
 

02/25/94
Last week’s puzzle solved

     

 

    
      
     

GRlMM‘?, SUMO
I6 ouR,euE5'l".

we CANT LET ‘ll-H5
Kl‘l’l’4H CAT 5L£6P
ON THE FLOOR.

  
   
  
  
  

UJHERE D0 4300
‘ll-llNK H6
wow BE MORE
COMFORTABLE?

   

  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
     
    
   
     

     
       
        
   
   
    
 
     
     
 
   
  
 

  
   
  

  
  
  

 

  
  

   
   

  

   
  
  

 

 

     
   
  
 
 

 

 

 
  
            
 
     

    

SIOIIEWHII SQUETE SHOTIHQ Center
L-EXIHQIOILV
463-9800

March Specials
.: 9¢ rental sections - General (Fitness
tapes, Ski tapes). Martial Arts,
' Wrestling
L-1

  Comic Books - Buy 5 get a 4th FREE; New

  

arrivals of comic books 8! trading cards weekly.
Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m-. Fri 81 Sat 103‘m"u 93"’
Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

ll

  

  
 

ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week
Free Details: SASE to
International inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230
./://‘.//‘./‘./:/‘.£/:/‘.//‘./‘./:/‘.//‘.//:/://‘./:/‘./*

............I

2'" , I


N

     
 

   
    
  

   
   
 

 
  
      

< L
~..asN P"-‘OJ T5 “E _,.
,(..a‘\Er 9-2 2€»s~‘::<r»

, L» ~.;\u*<:— as <€$’c=

,/,\  1, ’\--
» 2'  o
, Ewf[_GErS1‘o17i0.
éfagr LJVS’.
mg Moqg \r~lFo2MATioN gm
{$00-$62-rlrr;P

 
  

 

. /'
Ly

52 hatrtfched  a>:sJt:rnon
56 Thinks 21 Wallet items
i_$0 Diving bird 23 Consume
M 2:13 Elunder 25 feed In
?'- 64 Cggtslg defense  Kgdadll gckes.
:2 Stir ugm t 29 Specgalilzed
A noun epoe” voca uary _ WELL SENATOR
A 37 — well that  31 Anne s _ . ' ’
 33 32s;::*’W°* ”2l.li‘?iEE5“l.‘iicé£ 
I p 33 Beta — IS LOCAL.’ ‘
9*: 1 /l3tC()WtN “ 34 L/Voolegn fabric ’ A."
:7. en lon- e er or suits ~. ,, \ 
.41; §EIaU5cYk5"l¢%, .. 3436- f$0ar|C>sr:KtJrr<taa1n1,enl-,. - ‘V ‘ v  M ,/.‘.'z.‘l  ..
35. 4 Smallilsh 39.E‘arly settlers". H '1  7' ‘ ‘\ A E I  
 3 Siégildnb 1 35 Dafhesr t t 51C i 7”“ Wt‘
Wt  45 ;;i;:;’d°'< ‘Y ° gg  2; ir::::;  SHOE   3; ~ A» «fire
I oneyin abric esign impleton Charles ‘ ’ ' \ '- i
  zzlrzzrng  :2 2.:m::i'Se 2: sea  W‘-”"""°"""”’  2% A 
:33 __
if, ---— —.._ _._....._ ___._._._
3“ 1994 Miss All Am ' -
s “gig ' 91' 19311 Apart ments for Rent
*7 3 d Teen D C Pa eant- - ’
ii gamma“; C d-_ _- th gf d Eagering to W&L students. 2 Two
_‘ .
:3 ome an ]O1Il e un an e room apartments or rent in
ii  L . . eXc1tement' downtown Lexington just a very
3 ..  J 76/ 9 9 ‘
g mu. x ~ ,. Teens between 14 and 19 years of short walk from the W&L campus.
3 Sallirday M9‘“‘“g‘ All” Can Eat Pa“°ak‘=S a e. You ma have the chance to $300 Per m0I1th One unlt; $375 Per
,1 Daily Spec1als- 24 Hour—A-Day Breakfast , _ th 1 - t,
3 Meals That Cater to BigAppetites W111:  and SCh0larShlp mon arger unl ' _
§ Br kfast B ffet money, a 14K gold crown ring - —Er°:‘1t1L‘(’j°a“°“f ,
,1 Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m. - o — an 01' a S 01‘ Water
he Sunday 9 a_m,_2 pm, For more information call includin phgt Water ’
l. Rt. 11 North 1 463-3478 Open 24 Hours 1.800.887-7003 If , d 1 g 11
;- 4" 0 mtereste p ease ca property
'1 ’ .
i 3'-. ‘f’ 3- Earn $500 - $1000 weekly stufﬁng manager, Mrs, Brown, daytlme I
; §‘1‘V§(1,°§ff,; ';:’Sd§‘:,‘.'S ' RUSH 463-3013; at night or weekends, '
l ’ ' Group FIVE
E 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307  
3 Dover, DE 19901 i.
 EXTRAINCOME NOW! E in

     
             
    

 

WE ARE NOW OPEN FOR

    

GHQ Restaurant
announces

CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST»

Monday - Friday
8:30 a.m. — 11:00 a.m.
- Coffee - Toast _
- Tea - Bagels/ A
- Pastery Cream Cheese
- CNN Cable News

C’mon down for pre-class lift or hang-out."
and read the paper. (no smoking please.)
Also check out the new Luncheon Menu.

         
     
      
 
     
    
   
   
    

 

<._

The Rin -tum Phi Febru 25.1994 PAGE 5

,EC discusses upping student activity fees

money irresponsibly this year would receive cuts next year. “I see it as a bad precedent... to do this whenever the
He suggested that next year’s committee explainto campus Executive Committee decides it needs more money,” he
groups that the extra $20,000 the EC had this year was the said.
exception, and not the rule. EC Secretary Ashby Hackney agreed, saying an increase
“If you (Cross) are on the committee next year, you in fees would prompt campus groups to ask for more money
should say ‘we had a windfall,”’ Tompkins said. and inﬂate their budgets next year.
Benedict said asking the Board of Trustees to approve an “ [The EC just raised it two years ago,” he said. “Isn ’t that
increase without a real demand for the money would set a enough?”
bad precedent. Cross motioned for an increase from $135 to $145. The

motion failed, with only three EC members voting in favor
of the increase.

Cross said his motion to increase the fees would help
alleviate the problems the EC had with funding the Calyx
this year.

Tompkins said the EC should not increase the activity
fees without a valid reason.

“We have a responsibility to spend the students’ money
responsibly and efficiently,” he said.

IFC considers new Rush plans

“Any kind of a deferred Rush plan
would require the houses to have
trust and a sense of honor,” Atkins

UDEC FEE, from page 1

ﬁve dollars per student would recoup the loss of the STU
money. He also suggested that an increase of $10 or $15
would prevent “the problems [the EC] had this year” during
dvudget hearings.

Tompkins said the money could easily be made up next

year during budget hearings. He said groups that used their

Law student
commits suicide

said. One house representative said
Plotkin’s deferred Rush would end

Two house representatives said
their houses were opposed to any
winter Rush.

IIDRUSH, from page 1

§I>DEATH, from page 1

with his wife, Jennifer, after he was
married Jan. 1.

Becky Fairchild, of Becky’s Coun-
try Casuals in Buena Vista, sold Jenni-
fer Litz her wedding dress.

‘ “They both seemed very sweet,”
Fairchild said.

Came held the same opinion of Litz’s
wife.

“I met Jennifer a few times, and she
was very sweet,” said Came, but added
that he and Litz’s other roommate,
glichael Allen, did not have much con-

ct with him.

“Most of my conversations with
him were current-events driven,” Came
said. ‘‘I didn’t know him very well, but
from the contact I did have with him, he
was a delightful young man.”

“Saying that he was a really intelli-
gent guy isn’t enough, because there
are not a lot of stupid people in law
school,” said Loehr. ‘‘I looked forward
to knowing him for a long time.”

With his fellow students, Litz was
characterized as being helpful and
motivational.

9 “He was instrumental in setting up
a study groups for the property class I

taught,” said Halper. “Another student
told me that it soon became a tutoring
session. My impression was that he

»was very well liked by the other stu-

dents.” -

Estep remembered an incident when
one of Litz’s friends needed her hair
cut.

“He said he knew how to cut hair,
and he totally [messed] it up,” said
Estep. “That was Jack; he wasn’t afraid
to try anything. He always wanted to
do something for people.”

Students, friends and faculty said
they were saddened by the death.

“It’s a great loss to our commu-
nity,” said Halper. “I personally will
miss him.”

The memorial service was held at
St. John’s United Methodist Church in
Buena Vista, and the family asked that
condolences be sent to Jennifer Litz at
P.O. Box 2243, Staunton, VA 24401.

Loehr said he did not know until the
memorial service that Litz had such a
wide range of friends.

“I was surprised by the number of
people outside the law school who at-
tended the service,” he said.

Came said he was saddened by the
incident.

“It’s just a shame,” he said.

Panhel waits for

sororities to stabilize

Freshmen would be allowed at these
parties in limited numbers by invita-
tion only.

Under Plotkin’s plan, the official
Rush dates would be held over the
fall break (October 20th and 21st).
Freshmen would be required to have
a 1.9 grade point average at mid-
terms.

The other plan, submitted by Ryan
Donaldson, maintains a similar Rush
schedule as this year but changes the
contact periods and Open Houses.

Donaldson said it would be better
to get Rush over with as soon as
possible. His plan allows two to three
open contact periods in the middle of
the week. Rush would be completed
before Homecoming according to
Donaldson’s plan.

“It’s not that different from this
year’s Rush,” Donaldson said.

Donaldson said he would submit
a ﬁnalized proposal of his plan to
house presidents by Sunday.

The IFC decided to delay discus-
sion of a possible winter Rush. Dean
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins said a win-
ter Rush probably could not be feasi-
bly planned for next year.

Freshmen walk to a fraternity house under the guidance of actives during Rush in the
fall. A restructuring of Rush is high on the IFC’s agenda for this year.

up being one really long fall Rush.

File Photo

SVCW and JM U may team up

From Staff Reports

IDPANHEL, from page 2

current sororities are well established before
we bring in another one,” she said.

Chi Omega President Noelle Parrott said
although she supports bringing a new sorority,
she would like to see Pi Phi fill their quota next
year...  . , ‘ .

“No sororities would want to colonize here
if the four sororities are not stable,” she said.

She said Pi Phi is a strong sorority but has the
stigma of being weak.

. She said part of the problem comes from the
freshmen women placing their hopes on only
one or two sororities.

She said freshman women should realize

V. that the four sororities are not much different
7 from each. other. r t ’

“They don’t realize thateach sorority is
great by itself,” shesaid.

Southern Virginia College for Women
may get some financial help through a
public-private venture between SVCW and
James Madison University in Harrisonburg.

Buena Vista General Assembly delegate
Lacey Putney told the News-Gazette that the

budget passed bji the Apprppriatidﬁij 

mittee of the House of Del‘egatés"int:lu”clés“‘ '
nearly $200,000 for the venture.

The Senate budget does not have the same
appropriation.

The schools would work in a partnership.
JMU turns down about 10,000 applicants a
yean

In the SVCW-J MU partnership, 50 to 60 of
those applicants could attend SVCW if they
lived within 50 miles of the Buena Vista school.
Then students w,o,ul.d..,.be. allowed to transfer
to JMU , as juniors a fter two years at

” SVCW.

SVCW showed their ﬁnancial woes last

summer when they borrowed $750,000 from
the Bank of Rockbridge, using the school’s
property as collateral. .

Last fall the college had to cut workers’
wages and benefits in an attempt save money.‘
The school began a capital campaign in Octo-
ber to raise $1.25 million. The campaign has
raised committments for $400,000 so far. In
February, the SVCW board of trustees ap-
proved the sale, of. $3.65 million in bonds to
provide the school with operating money for
the next three years. ,

/

l’RI.\'Cll’I.I’.S 0/ S()L'.\'I) R

If 'I‘ I R Ii .\I If N

UNEORTUNATEIE THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

_/~ ‘ ' ‘ ./.7‘./C/J/.7:/7‘./.‘/7./J/‘./7‘./.'/‘./7/'.7‘.£/J.‘/J‘. '

./.‘/.;'/../././.'/.././‘./‘./‘./‘./‘./‘./‘./J/‘ < ' _
urnished LlVlI1g Room/Bedroom combination.
Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only.
Within walking distance from campus.

House for Rent -

Four Bedroom, Two Bath
Located Along Rt. 11 - 7 miles south of
Lexington; available June 1. $880 per
month Call 464-4791 anytime.

Town-n-Country Cleaners
Quality Cleaning and Shirt Laundry
One-Day Service - Drive thru Window
Summit Square Shopping Center
190 Walker St. (Next to Beyond Video)

463-2261

DRUNK DRIVING DOESN’T
JUST KILL DRUNK DRIVERS.

.\'z‘cli0Zas Esposito. 1:2‘/led Oct. Is}.
1989 at 8.“.’.5p'm.

Next time your friend insists on
driving drunk, do whatever it takes to
stop him. Because if he kills innocent
people. how will you live with yourself?

ms D0ll"l’lET rmnaos omv: DRUNK.

0 I994 Track/-.r I;muwu:z an3AIuuu'!y A.r.roc1'atilan/Cnlkge Rttimnwnt  Fund

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs.
SRAs not only ease your current tax-
bite, they offer a remarkably easy way
to build retirement income-—especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security benefits may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on

your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality oflife.

What else makes SRAs so special?

A range of allocation choices—from the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversified investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity—all backed
by the nation's number one retirement
system.

Why write off the chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF
SRAS can help you enjoy many
happy returns.

Beneﬁt nawﬁmn tux de_ferral. Call our SRA hatline 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?‘

E

CREF cerlzj/'ztu!t.r are tlirlri/min} by TI/l/l-CREF lndiv[1)ua/ um) Inﬂilulianal Servitu. Far Irwrr camp/tit infurnmnizn, [nr/udiny rbar_q:.r aml :.rp:n.r:.r,
m// I 300-342-2733, tart. 80/6 fora praxpectw. Read I5: prwpeclw carefully btfort you invert vr rent) munty.

A_

Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee

- Counselors for Summer Scholars June 29 - July 31, 1994

Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school senoirs.
Each counselor serves as a resident advisor for 10 students in Graham-Lees
dormitory.

- Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 13 - August 2

The Office of Special Programs employs 4 W&L students to serve as
hosts/hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni
Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.

Application deadline, February 28, 1993.

For further information, please Contact Office of the Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

F"“""“"""""""“""“"""" “"T" ‘AT ‘T "
I

tum;
Iliiw
lixbw
.’13tll
rlriw
am.
C.-tl!

iluol
qidz
in :

'i0.'.g
rt’

(z...r.
'J|".1\'
‘.lv't'ft f

.’t:'I::".

“PAGE 6

    

Tilt}: iittng-tum lﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A question of
consistency

The Executive Committee voted Wednesday to not rec-
ommend raising the student activities fee to the Board of
Trustees. EC president Robert Tompkins said he did not
Want the EC to seem irresponsible for throwing together a
proposal in such a short amount of time. Tompkins was
right. The EC would have been irresponsible because they
created their current budget situation.

Allocating funds to student organizations is an unenviable
job. Nevertheless, it is one the EC must do at the start of
every school year. The EC members are elected and
entrusted to oversee the students’ budget. But when faced
with a total budget about $30,000 less than last year’s, the
EC needed to cut budgets. The problem is not that they did
cut budgets, but how they did.

The EC cut the Calyx’s budget to about $6,000 less than
last year’s allocation. The problem is the Calyx went about
$6,000 in debt last year. So, when the Calyx editors went
to the EC this year, they asked for an allocation of $28,600,
which accounted for their increased costs. During the
budget hearings the EC suggested the Calyx did not do an
adequate job of raising funds and made several suggestions,
including getting more people to have their class photos
taken. Well, the Calyx has managed to increase its revenue
immensely. But guess what? It is still in the hole, which is
not surprising when you consider they were allocated about
$10,000 less than they requested. This is not to say the EC
should give every organization the funds they request. On
the contrary, the EC must and should evaluate all the budget
requests and decide whether to grant the allocation or
re uce it. The problem lies in the way the EC evaluated this
year’s requests.

The Calyx is just one example of the EC’s inconsistent
thinking. When comparing this year’s budget and last
year’s there are many interesting changes. The Student
Activities Board received a $7,000 budget increase, while
the Student Bar Association received a budget cut of
$6,000. The Rugby Club has a budget of $2,000 this year
as compared to $1,500 last year. Amnesty International fell
under the refusal to fund partisan groups olicy, but last
year they received $700. The Freshmen Orientation Com-
mittee received $2,000 last year and nothing this ear. Club
Lacrosse’s budget was more than doubled from 1,060 last
year to $2,245 this year. These are just a few of the budget
anomalies.

What is truly bothersome is the way the EC varies its
criteria from one organization to another. EC members said
throughout the budget hearings they consider how many
students the organization benefits. Well, there are not many
organizations that benefit more of the student body than the
Calyx. Every student who wants one gets one. FOC and
SBA each benefit about 400 students, and FOC has an
additional 60 or 70 students who organize orientation week.
Each benefits better than one-fifth of the student body, yet
each had its budget cut. On the other hand it is hard to
imagine that Club Rugby or Club Lacrosse benefit more
than 100 students. Certainly Club Lacrosse and Rugby
deserve funding and no one can blame them for asking for
larger allocations. But the fact that organizations benefit-
ing relatively few people got budget increases while orga-
nizations benefiting relatively more people got budget
decreases, highlights the inconsistencies of the EC’s bud-
get process.

The EC does not have a standard procedure for the
budget process, but this year’s budget problems should
suggest to them, or at least next year’s EC, that they should
develop a system for analyzing budget requests and use it
on each organization. Raising the student activities fee by
$5 or $10 is not necessarily a bad idea. But raising the fee
to solve problems the EC created is irresponsible.

Quote of the Week:

“I think I ’m going to steal something.”
— Written on a muscular dystrophy donation
shamrock at Stop-In

 

lift’
4).’! 1

(J11: ﬁtting-mm ilﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Hillary Olson

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Q . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller
Advenising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

0
The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1994

   
  
     

   
 

ll FAtR[1'HEY‘r~ 
 spymer onus.

  

D
,/""7--“\,\
O
‘o
‘O
D
6

Media exaggerates drug dangers

It is reported on television news stories, it is dangers needed to be created. The newest concern
was and is that marijuana is a gateway drug, leading
to the use of more toxic and lethal drugs. To reach this
conclusion one needed only
to consult a heroin or cocaine

reported in the mainstream press, it is even reported in
The Ring-tum Phi: marijuana use, especially by the

young, is one the rise. What
should be our reaction?

Many are immediately
surprised. Many think the
anti-drug messages which we
have been exposed to would
have prevented any drug use
by college students. How-
ever, it is those very mes-

 

C.F.
KUCERA,
’97

sages, and anti-drug laws
which have caused much of
the increase in use.

As children growing up in the 1980’s, the message
was clear: use drugs, screw up your life. As many of
us matured we saw readily the effects of cocaine,
heroin, and other hard core drugs on society. What we
didn’t see, however, was any devastating effect of

marijuana.

To see this effect we would have need to visit a
research laboratory and see large doses of THC given
to laboratory rats. The effects of marijuana, ever since
. the 1920’s, have been greatly exaggerated. In 1926 a
series of articles linked marijuana with crime in New
Orleans. The blame for the increase in crime is much
more attributable to the use of alcohol than to mari-
juana. This hearsay evidence of the harmful effects of
the drug continued, and culminated in a number of
state and federal laws, many of which still stand on

the books.

The modern concerns have changed. Since we can
now blame crime on cocaine and heroin users, new

February is Black History Month in
the United States. Throughout this
month we have all seen the special
programming on television, displays in
bookstores, and events being held in
communities across the country com-
memorating the role of African-Ameri-

table question, should mari-
juana use, production, and transport be legalized? My
answer is yes. The time has come to begin treating a

CC""—-*“

Should marijuana use, produc-
tion, and transport be legalized?
My answer is yes. The time has
-come to’ begin treating a large
percentage ofAmericans who
“touch the reefer” like adults.

large percentage of
Americans who “touch
the reefer” like adults.
These people use mari-
juana as many of us use
alcohol: in a recre-
ational manner.
Cannabis has a long
history of social use,
dating backto 2737 BC.
when it was known as
the “Liberator of Sin.”
The useful effects of the
drug as a catalyst for
creativity was made fa-

mous by the patrons of the Hotel Pimodan in Paris
during the 1840’s (brought to notoriety by Gautier’s
book Le Club de Hachischins).

migrants who came to this country
with little or nothing and worked to
achieve theirdreams. This is the Ameri-
can motto: “Life, liberty, and the pur-
suit of happiness.”

What must be remembered is that
African-Americans were not raised on

 

cans in the this creed.
United States. Theirforbear-

They have ers were de-
risen from a nied these
class tanking PATRICK “self -ev i -
akin to thatof dent” truths.
farm animals MCDERMOPT9 They were
to become 994 told to work
some of the until they
most inﬂuen- died, if they
tial Ameri- didn’t, they

cans in our

history. Our nation has been impacted
by people who were brought here to
serve but who have since risen to soar.
African-Americans today hold leader-
ship positions in business, politics, the
arts, medicine, the military,and sports.
Indeed, every facet of our society that
was once closed to them has been
opened. This progression is clear and
it is continuing, and yet, we still
confront racial divisions in our
nation.

These divisions are seen in every
aspect of our society, but all too often
they disproportionately affect the most
innocent members, our children. White
children have a one in ﬁve chance of
being born into poverty, black children
have a one in two chance. Black chil-
dren and teenagers are more likely to
spend time in jail, to be killed, to drop
out of school -— put simply, they are
more likely to fail. We no longer have
to fear the possibility of creating a “per-
manent underclass” in our society. It
has occurred.

While we can all point to successful
black Americans who have overcome
these obstacles, they are by far the ex-
ception. To continue the metaphor,
while many African-Americans have
risen from serving to soaring, they still
confront those forces in our country
who would like to clip their wings. This
is not conjecture; it is statistical fact.
What we must ask ourselves is, “Why?”

Some would say that blacks bring
these problemson themselves. “If some-
one really wants to succeed, they will.”
How many times have we heard people
say things like this? As Americans, we
are descendants of sturdy people, im-

were killed. It
was just that simple.

The descendants of these enslaved
people include some of the greatest
Americans to ever live. But, their de-
scendants also include the young men
killing each other over gang colors in
Los Angeles tonight. Their descen-
dants also include the 16-year-old girl,
who has just given birth to her second
child with no father to help raise her
children and no money to feed them.
Their descendants also include the
millions of black children who walkto
school in fear only to arrive at out-
dated textbooks and metal detectors.
These are the descendants that over
200 years of racism have produced.

But slavery no longer exists and
“The Movement” was a ringing suc-
cess, right? Slavery ended but the mas-
ter-slave mentality continues. The
Movement won many victories but
stopped short of the goal. What is left
for the youth of the African-American
community is more of the same. Can
we really say the slave quarters of 200
years ago are that different from the
ghettos of today? They are both slums.
Is there really a distinction between
lynchings and drive-by shootings?
They each take the lives of innocent
people. Can we truly separate planta-
tion ownersforcingthemselvesontheir
female slaves from the unwed teen
mothers who ﬁll our hospitals? Both
were raped by a system of injustice.
All of these comparisons exist to dem-
onstrate to those of us who are not
directly affected, that racism in
America is alive and well, itjust looks
a little different than it used to.
America must recognize this, and so

addict, often their first drug
was marijuana if they were
now shooting up heroin. If
this “gateway” theory were
true, many of our professors
and those of their age would
now be on skid row.

Thus we come to the inevi-

must we at Washington and Lee.

We are, by and large, children of

privilege, going to school in what once
was the “Cradle of the Confederacy.”
While I am not about to begin to deni-
grate some of the South’s most es-
teemed historical figures, and while I

do not seek to question the traditions of

conduct and honor that have governed
day-to-day life here for centuries, I am
suggesting this university must begin
to confront racism on a personal level
if we are ever to help end racism on a
national level. We must begin by re-
evaluating our attitudes towards those
members of our community who are
African-American. We must look
within ourselves and examine how we
perceive this group of people. Are they
a part of our community, or have they
been forced into a separate but equal
section because we have been
unwilling to welcome them? I would
argue this is precisely what has
happened here at Washington and Lee.

Without question, this university
has a long way to go when it comes to
achieving diversity, but it will occur. If
those who study
the subject are
correct, if we as a
community will
not embrace di-
versity, eventu-
ally, it will em-
brace us because
it is the future.
While I have been
here at W&L I
have met and be-
friended many
people. I am
proud to say that
many of my very
best friends here
are African-
Americans, and
every day that I
know them they
teach me a little
more about what it means to “soar.”
Two of my friends have invested enor-
mous amounts of effort in pursuing
psychology majors. They set standards
for themselves and their work that
seemed unattainable, but they have at-
tained them, and now are reaping their
rewards as they are courted by some of
the top graduate programs in the coun-
try.
Another of my friends has over-

While many A frican-
Americans have risen
from serving to soaring,
they still confront those
forces in our country
who would like to clip
their wings. This is not
conjecture; it is statisti-
cal fact. What we must
ask ourselves is, “Why?”

. '0

Recently we have seen an encouraging turn of
events from both sides of the political spectrum.
From William F. Buckley as early as 1972 to

_ Surgeon General Elders this year, and the reasons
are clear. One can first start with the amount of
money thrown away on seeking out and trying
marijuana offenders.

The harmful effects of the drug, though existeht,
are far less dangerous than conventional wisdom
would have us believe. It is extremely difficult to
become addicted to marijuana, and the long term
health effects, save those caused by the smoke, are
near zero. As far as the carcinogens in marijuana
when smoked, though the levels are higher (no pun ,
intended) than those in cigarettes, the averﬁe
smokerofcannabis takes in lower levels of carcino-

gens and tar than does
a cigarette smoker
since less of the sub-
stance is smoked.

The question comes
down to this: in acorn}-
try which puts a high
premium on freedom,

do not harm society
should not be legislated
against. Pot doesn’t
harm society; pot laws
do.

Source: Drugs, So-

ciety, and Human Behavior, Ray, Oakley, Ph.D., et
al. Time/Mirror/Mosby, College Publishing,‘ St.
Louis, I 990.

Confront racism on our campus

come what seems to have been a never-
ending row of obstacles since her ar-
rival here, and has moved beyond them
to become an extraordinary writer, go
extraordinary, that success for her is
just a matter of time. Yet another friend
is planning on law school, and from the
oratorical skills he has already devel-
oped, if I ever need a lawyer, he will be
the one I call. They have all achieved
these things in spite of what th y
all agree is an unfriendly atmosphere,
at best.

For me, these people are the em-
bodiment of Black History Month. I
celebrate their accomplishments be-
cause'they, unlike the rest of us, have
had to rise above a separate set §f

Y

‘obstacles on their way to success. Th

are role models for black youth in this
community and in their own cities.
They and others like them serve to
show children of color that they can
succeed, that there is hope for them. In
their efforts, they also serve to slow]

breakdown some of the very barrie

which attempted to slow them on their

way. They are succeeding, but they
should not be alone
in their struggle.

All of us should
see it as a personal
responsibility to er!
sure that everyone
has an equal chance
to succeed. For
those of us who
have not had to
overcome racial
barriers, I can think
of no more appro-
priate way of cel-
ebrating Black His-
tory Month than to
begin to eliminate
these obstacles for
others. This ca;
start by simply re-
examining our atti-
tudesconcemingra-
cial issues and acting to make changes
in ourselves and in the institutions we
inhabit. If we all do this, we will begin
to see a change in those frightenin
statistics that began this column ang
we will enable an entire generation of
African-American youth to reach for
their dreams. If we dothis, we can be as
courageous as my friends who have
stood up to racism, refused to serve,
and risen to soar.

K

   

It

those behaviors which -

 

    

G

The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1994

OPINION

Planes, bores and automobiles

Spos’ SPACE
' Tom Hespos

I only agreed to go to Florida with
my parents because I thought I might
get a free trip to Disney World. Some-
thing about Space Mountain gives me

gt cool rush. Instead, I spent my Febru-
ary break in Stuart, Florida visiting my
grandparents and beingcooped up with
my immediate family. I think my
mother used the Disney World thing to
lure me onto the plane.

My basic thoughts about air travel
are simple. Air travel is fun, unless you

ave to deal with so-called “connect-
ing ﬂights.” Connecting flights are the
airline industry’s gift to the hotel in-
dustry. If you miss one ﬂight, your
travel plans are ditched and you end up
staying in some sleazy cockroach-in-
fested motel in Pittsburgh. Yes, of

Qzourse _ you end up staying in Pitts-
burgh. Why? Because nearly every
flight runs through there. For example,
Delta Airlines Flight #3262 — direct
service to London’s Heathrow Air-
port from Dallas-Fort Worth, with a
brief stop in Pittsburgh.

0 Fortunately, Spos was able to avoid
the Pittsburgh syndrome by ﬂying in
the opposite direction. My ﬂight to
West Palm Beach had a connection in
Raleigh-Durham. The first leg of the
ﬂight was in one of American Airlines’
smaller planes, the type commonly re-

ferred to as “puddle jumpers.” This is
where I bumped into EC Representa-
tive Alex Cross. Alex was ﬂying into
Raleigh-Durham and continuing home
via about half a dozen connecting

ﬂights. I haven’t seen him since.
Look for his obituary in the Pitts-
burgh papers.

I was actually quite surprised that
we even made it to Raleigh in that
plane. I would have felt safer riding on
the back of a pterodactyl, a la Fred
Flintsone. Before we took off, the stew-
ardess asked me to move to a seat in the
rear of the plane, citing “weight distri-
bution” as her
reason for mov-
ing me. I got to
thinking — if an

____“_____

security numbers and the PIN numbers
on their credit cards.

I tried everything. I ordered two
Bloody Marys. I tried to ignore her. I
even called my parents from the in-
ﬂight telephone at a cost of six kajillion
dollars a minute. After about four min-
utes on the phone, when I reached my
credit limit and had to hang up, she
started in with the stories again. She
said that her son
Charlie (pro-
n o u n c e d
“CholIie”) went

extra 230 pounds I love rent I ca to college and
in the rear of the a 719- switched his
plane made_a sig-  Because they give major approxi-
mficant differ- me the opportunity to do mately eight
ence, could this times.

crappy little things thatI wouldn’t “ T h a t ’ s

puddle jumper
stand up to the
likes of, say, a 30

nonnally do in my car.
For instance, I was able

nice,” I said, giv-
ing her my best
disinterested

m.p.h. gust of 0 n t h look and dump-

wind? I tried not n‘-Iyggtgrﬁuzlrivgggens ing the restof my

to think. vodka into my
The second forward at 60 m.p.h. and glass-

leg of the ﬂight Still, she per-

was worse. Al-
though I was
seated on a com-
fortable jumbo
jet, I was also put next to an irritating
old lady who told me more about her
personal life than I cared to know.
She was a fellow Long Islander, but
she was one of those people that gave
Long Island a bad name by pronounc-
ing it something like “Lawn Guyland.”
Want to know something about her
kids? I can tell you anything you might
want to know. The only things this
woman left out were her kids’ social

you shift into reverse.

sisted. I am go-
ing to hold her
personally re-
sponsible when I
am trying to remember something im-
portant about the Federalist Papers on
my next politics test and can only re-
member the story about how Chollie
fell off his bike when he was 12 and
skinned his face.

After landing in West Palm Beach,
I assumed that nothing else could go
wrong. I met some friends at the airport
and they gave me a ride to my
grandfather’s place. It was there in the

driveway that I remembered another
advantage of Florida vacations:
rental cars.

I love rental cars. Why? Because
they give me the opportunity to do
things that I wouldn’t normally do in
my car. For instance, I was able to find
out what happens when you are driving
forward at 60 m.p.h. and you shift into
reverse. The effect was very close to
what I had expected, but it was fun to
see my theories reinforced by experi-
ments in the ﬁeld.

Rental cars are also fun when you
consider the proliferation of various
Florida vermin on the state’s highways
— no need to fear the occasional alli-
gator on its daily stroll across U.S. 1.
Insurance companies are usually very
understanding about such things.
Florida is also the home of the Phi’s
own Richard Weaver. (The placement
of this factoid in the paragraph about

smashing into road vermin with your - i

rental car is not to suggest that you
should deliberately smash into Rich-
ard. At least try to make it looklike
an accident.)

So, next time you travel by air for a
vacation, remember the following
guidelines:

1) Buy up all ofthe seats around you
on the plane in order to avoid being
seated next to annoying people.

2) Always drink on airplanes be-
cause the altitude increases your buzz.

3) Never use the in-ﬂight telephone.

4) Take all of your bags on the plane
as “carry—on luggage.” Otherwise, they
will end up in Pittsburgh.

5) If you are a smoker, smoke in
your seat to avoid the fine for smoking
in the lavatory.

O

 

‘Waddy misjudges human nature

MY VIEW
, Chris Tricarick, ’95

A diversiﬁcation among human communi-
ties is essential for ...the Odyssey of the human spirit.
Other nations of different habits are not enemies: they
are godsends. Men require of their neighbours some-
thing suﬂiciently akin to be understood, something
sufficiently different to provoke attention, and some-
thing great enough to command admiration.

-.~..A- N —Whit_el1<2a<l

Violence and peace have both destroyed civiliza-
.tions; and in the long run the latter has proven the more
virulent enemy. One people may with almost entire
success extirpate another, and erase those peculiari-
ties of the other, which we call their culture, from
memory: this was the fate to which some of our own
forbears subjected the Indians, and to which Sarajevo

now seems doomed.
But again and again in human history, civilizations

‘have persisted in the face of heinous persecution.
Indian cultures have hardly disappeared altogether,
and the very old culture of hate and fear in Bosnia, of
which the present conﬂict is a manifestation, has
survived several generations of active suppression
from the communist regime.

Peaceful assimilation, on the other hand, and the
bseductive appeal of prosperity, have exerted a more
silent and thus a more fatal inﬂuence over traditional
cultures. Throughout this century, for example, the
Orthodox Church maintained significantly stronger
support from the populace during the worst days of
soviet persecution than did the state-supported Church
of England.

g Nicholas Waddy, in his column of February 11,
conﬂates the distinct if not unrelated questions of war
and cultural standardization, and precisely because I
so strongly sympathize with his plea against such
standardization do I feel compelled to extricate it
from some of the arguments with which it is mixed.

Serbia is not waging war against MTV and Coca-
Cola, and the conﬂict there does not stem from mod-
em cultural insecurities. Mr. Waddy tells us, and this
is undeniable, that “Cultural insecurity has never
existed at the same high level as it does today.” Yet
the ethnic warfare which he imputes to that insecurity
comes down to us from antiquity; the impulse behind
it appears to lie in the darkest recesses of human
nature, as he himself points out. Serbia fights not
to preserve its own threatened culture but to
destroy another.

Which brings me to another point. Mr. Waddy
throughout his column attempts to universalize the
violent warfare against other cultures which is his

 ._-°«.t.l,l>i.ec.t~.l3.y sayingthat “-:-Muslims.Serbs»-?"d.Cf°al§a

distrustful of each other and anxious to ensure the
survival of their respective peoples and traditions,
have taken up arms...” and, with his slightly macabre
humor, that “we should not be particularly surprised
that Bosnian Muslims and Serbs like to kill each
other...” he implies that the ethnic groups of the
Balkans have taken up equal arms by mutual consent.
Now to regard the world as divided neatly into perse-
cutors and victims, as dinosaurs are classified into
carnivores and herbivores, would be a gross oversim-
pliﬂcation of the picture; on the other hand, to ignore,
as does Mr. Waddy, that certain peoples have been
responsible for a great deal of historical aggression,
while others have remained relatively quiet and self-
contained, would be a violence against reality and, in
those of us who have inherited one of the most
aggressive of world cultures, a bit of bad taste.

Lastly I question Mr. Waddy ’s picture of tolerance
and moralism as mutually exclusive qualities - a
picture with which one is confronted quite frequently
of late, both from the enemies of tolerance and from
those of morality. I cannot imagine morality without
humility, and humility entails tolerance. Yet it would
appear essential to Mr. Waddy’s defense of culture
that the various cultures immolate themselves behind
intolerant walls —to use his metaphor—of prejudice
and fear.

And yet in this very scenario I see the triumph of
the mass-standardized order which I fear is in com-
mon with Mr. Waddy. For peoples divided, expend-

ing energy in conﬂict one with another, will far
more easily fall victims to that order than those
which are at relative peace. The quote with which I
have prefaced this article may suggest the means by
which such peace may be achieved; for while
superficial exposure to what is different from us
may produce hostility, a deeper exposure will pro-
duce respect. An individual, or a community, will
rise up in defense not of an abstraction, such as
culture, but of the concrete manifestations of one’s
culture — and of other cultures which one has
encountered and learned to respect.
Against worldwide assimilation into the com-
_mercial-corporate system resistance movements

 have.Sl‘rﬁng..ﬁp.¢verxivliér¢%?Qt1¢exempletevthlch

somefattentiojn hashecentlylbeen given, is the cam-
paign of President Suharto of Indonesia against
American fast food restaurants there; others might
be mentioned far closer to home, for Western civi-
lization has suffered as greatly at the hands of its
child as has any “Third World” tribe. For these
movements not to regard each other with sympathy
and support would be ludicrous.

Shelby Foote, when he visited this campus last
year, deplored the standardization of the once re-
gionally diverse United States, pointing out that, if
I recall his words correctly: “From the window of a
Howard Johnson’s one couldn’t tell if one were in
Montgomery or Minneapolis.” We now perceive a
future in which one will not be able to distinguish
Minneapolis from Madagascar, in which no green
spot on earth will remain without traces of the
factory and the machine, and in which the fevered
pace of production and consumption will leave us
without leisure for philosophy or taste for art: a
catastrophe, to which I should prefer the immediate
reversion of humankind to the darkest of the dark
ages which went before.

Whether we can avert this catastrophe, it is not
our place to inquire; but when our conviction of our
own bad human nature deters us from those tasks to
which our better nature directs us, the time will
have arrived for us to conclude our earthly history.
We must continue to labor towards civilization and
peace; and we must do so together.

 

I Interviews and Photos

, By Betsy Green

   

Symposium

The Law School chapter of the
National Lawyers Guild is sponsor-
ing a symposium on “Children and
the Law” that will be held on March
3 from 7-9 p.m. in the Moot Court
Room of Lewis Hall. Featured
speakers forthe Symposium include
Ms. Cynthia Price Cohen, Ms.
Katherine S. Holliday and Ms.
Marsha Jarrell. All interested mem-
bers of the public are encouraged to
attend. There will be a reception
immediately following the sympo-
sium.

Interns

The Virginia Governor’s Fellows
program is now accepting applica-
tions for summer of 1994 interns.
Students accepted for the program
will work with Cabinet members,
agency heads and other state gov-
ernment officials, plus attend semi-
nars designed to foster a fuller un-
derstanding of Virginia politics and
government. For more information,
see Professor Bill Connelly in C-
school room 108. Applications are
due March 7.

Film Society

The Film Society’s next presen-
tation will be Strictly Ballroom
(Australia, 1992), directed by Baz
Luhrmann. Showings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday, Feb. 25 and Satur-
day, Feb. 26 in the Troubadour Cin-
ema. There is no charge for admis-
sion.

Admissions

The Admissions Office is ac-
ceptingapplicationsforsummertour
guides. All interested candidates
should submit a letter to Mrs. Julia
Kozak, Associate Director of Ad-
missions, no later than March 5.
Interviews will be held in mid-
March.

 

Recruitment

Want to be a chairman of the
Student Recruitment Committee?
Please submit a letter of interest to
Julia Kozak in the admissions of-
fice by Friday, March 4.

Women’s Forum

On Sunday, Feb. 27, Women’s
Forum will hold an open discussion
of “Women and AIDS” — myths,
realities, questions, and answers.
All are welcome to join us at 6:30
p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center.

Calyx

If you haven’t received your
1993 Calyx (from last year), please
pick it up at Carol Calkins’ office in
the University Center during nor-
mal hours.

Seniors

Sign up for your senior picture
in front of Carol Calkins’ office
before March 4. If you are submit-
ting your own picture please bring
it by the Calyx office before March
14. Questions? Call 462-4046.

Job

If you are interested in applying
for a new student position on the
residence life staff —— Woods Creek
Resident Coordinator—please stop
by Payne Hall 4 for more informa-
tion and an application. Deadline is
March 1.

Preston Society

Join the W&L—VMI group. For
more information, call Jason Dunn
at 463-6407.

 

Trustee backs Habitat
ﬁarliunmandty

To the editor:

It warms an old trustee’s heart to
read in The Trident that Washington
and Lee students have started a chapter
ofHabitat for Humanity. I have worked
as a volunteer for the D.C. Habitat for
three years and can promise you it
will be the most rewarding thing
you’ve done.

When we did a “blitzbuild” in 1991
as the Jimmy Carter Work Project in’
Southeast Washington (behind the
Redskins’ stadium) we had over 500
volunteers come at their own expense
from all over the U.S. and as far away
as Hungary. In five days we built 10
houses from scratch —— not pre—fabs,
but boards and nails. The new owners
— required by Habitat to be working

families, paying a mortgage vithout
interest — worked side—by-side with
us as part of their 500 hour “sweat
equity” requirement. By Friday, when
the homes were finished, complete with
carpeting, major appliances, lawns,
trees and even a small garden, the
whole neighborhood had a new look
— neat and upbeat. Home ownership
brings hope as well as a sense of
responsibility.

I hope you will get your Lexington
neighbors (as well as your parents)
involved, with contributions and
skills. Your neighbors in Roanoke are
building several houses every year.
Good luck!

Virginia R. Holton

1. 4.4

TALKBACK

Joan O’Mara, professor of art — “When I

it.

Robert McAhren, professor of history —
was in Japan, I had pizza with fruit cocktail on “Seasoned tofu and imitation bacon.”

Nancy Margand, professor of psychology Barry Machado, professor of history — “I
—— “I seldom eat pizza, but when I do, I eat
pepperoni.”

don’t eat pizza.”

What is your favorite pizza topping‘? 

Darcy Russell, professor of biology —
a vegetarian, so I like green pepper and

apple.”

Layout by
Joe Framptojrn

 

¢ !

K4»———.~.—«-»2~.—..a-
D
‘P B

 

 

   

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1934

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   

. American
Red Cross

  

BE A RED CROSS VOLUNTEER

Above: A Washington
and Lee player steps
up to bat during the
Generals’ 2-2 tied with
Shenandoah Feb. 26.
The game was played
at Smith Field, the
Generals’ first home
game of the season.

Left: Sophomore Graig
Fantuzzi pitches to an
opponent, long before
the game was called
because of darkness
after nine innings.

Right: Freshman Sacha
Montas runs in after
his team comes up to
bat.

Photos by Betsy Green

Washington and Lee began its baseball season during Washington holiday,
and has amassed a 2-2-1 record. ,3
Over the break, the Generals played two double-headers at Embry-Riddle,
splitting the games with their opponent.

The team next plays Feb. 26 at Mary Washington.

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

, Point ofV"1eW

Restaurant

 

463-7797

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing

$2 off any pasta dinner with
student I.D. O O

 W. in front of Days Inn

Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. 2000

Fireplace, wood stove, refrigerator, ceiling fans,
and huge bar. Secluded location about 3 miles

number of people). Beautiful view. Large yard -

3''‘

sq. ft. 4 bedrooms — can hold up to 6 people.

from town. Rent $200/person (regardless of 0

with ball field. Call Nate or Lewis for more
info, 463-6337 Home (804) 886-0614

Part-Time Help Wanted

Work approximately 20 hrs. per week

Opportunity to earn $400 - $800 per month starting

immediately — College Students Welcome
Call 463-1676

HOT TUB

5' x 7' portable spa used in
private residence. $1250.
-Call 464-8533 for information

‘NEED ciumr CONTROL?

L"

use

   

YOUR HOME Oli OFFICE, TOI’ TO
BOTTOM.
‘NO JOB TOO SMALL.
703-464-Z525

"OI

      

—"— Now Showing —
,Adda.m% Family

Values
7:00 & 9:20 p.m.
un. 12:45, 2:45, 5:00,
7:00 & 9:20 .m.
Rated P

Mrs. Doubtflre
Daily 6:45 & 9:30 pm.
Sat. & Sun. 1:15, 4:00,

6:45 & 9:30 p.m.
 Rated PG-13

E2 261 -7292 :
75 Beech Ave.,: Buena Visty

Dail
Sat. &

 

  

accepted credit cards in the world...Visa® and MasterCard0
credit cards.."in your mime.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA!” and Mastercarde the credit cards you
deserve and need for—— lD—BOOKS—-DEPARTMENT
STORES—TUiTlON—ENTERTAlNM ENT-
EMERGENCY CASH—TICKE'lS-RESTAURANTS-
HOfI‘ELS—MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS-—
REPAIRS-AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

Eg\ No turn downs!
Gum! “Q10 No credit checks!
“suyuagig No security deposit!
gul E '( .

SEND rm-: coupon room
Your: cneon cums ARE WAITING!

 

  
    
   
 

K J
rte .. p _ . ——- —______--_-.------Q-----:-
 > 0 Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? EZ-CARD’ 3°‘ 16515’ ‘”’L’‘"'“‘' G“ 3°”
5 OF Now you can have two of the most recognized and  IwamwsAG,MAS1-ERC-ARDQ Cred“

Cardsappmved immediately. 100% GUARANTEED!

Q

 

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY STATE _. ZIP
STUDENT? Yes No s_s_#

 

7 9
SIGNATURE :

NOTE Masterclld is a registered tmdernark d Masteroml lntemaiiornl. inc.
Visa Is a registered tradermrk OIVISA USA. Inc and VISA intemauonal

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

0

 

 

‘§‘he Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1994 
  I GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Standings as of 02/25/94

   

Cam D er 346

M€ﬂ’5 B35I‘°II’aII 1 Women’s Basketball
Final Statistics Final statistics
7 Leading Scorers Leading Scorers
I 1. _ I A 1. A Player Pts  phyer 1:15 ’

Virginia Yoerg 208

I-i
- -3%’

      

  
   

  

    

    

r W Der_ek arter 225 9-8 Sandra Holmes 205 9 3
REG SLICED §*“3.,°’o. I Chris Couzen 191 8.3 Nick Ma ﬁeld 179 3 5
. ' I: S “"5 *5.  Mark Connelly 195 8.1 Kaieii stuiyzmann 131 6:9
.. .. E .  , _
 6,0 -. 1.: _  Jon Coffman 180 7.5 Stacy Williams 119 6.6
CO .. E “W A * ;. _, ‘ Ma“ N‘=W.‘°". 179 7-5 Mary Tankard 96 4.6
4  9 .7 " ‘_  ._ Robert Miggins 173 7.2 21I1li5o£f1:ul11 2% 
" _ _. A .. ‘ y i a .
LB. :7. :3; I
BAG §g;’g,*;;g,-gg-;\,,\   .1.
 v v- ». ~  .2  7. .
‘ " ’  :-. Leading Rebounders Leading Reboundel-s
I 5"" V1“ 1'‘ I ’ I Player I . _ Reb Av3g player Reb Av
/ vi Robert Miggins 151 6. Sandra Hojmes 133 51,3
Derek Carter 135 5.9 Nicky Ma field 132 63
CamD er 124 5-4 Virginia oer 103 5.2
Mark onnelly 111 4.6 Mary Tankar 101 43
_ _ Chris Couzen 55 2.4 Amy Miha1 53 4,1
 ; ﬁinttcﬁffrriall   .§\lliso% Hull 7; 3.6
; 3 CW 011 - tacy illiams 7 4.1
JUICY ‘ . Karen Stutzmann 57 3.0
1 LARGE SHRIMP RED GRAPEFRUIT 1
Free-throw Standings Free-throw Standings
Player Ft/Fta Av Player Ft/Fta Av
_ Scott Schroeder 10/12 .83 Stacy Williams 26/39 .66
b Derek Carter 33/44 .750 Virginia Yoerg 58/90 .645
Jon Coffir_1an_ 45/62 .726 Karen Stutzmann 27/47 .575
Robert Miggms 39/55 .709 Sandra Holmes 29/53 .547
LB Chris Couzen 52/75 .693 Amy Mihal 10/19 .526
° E Cam Dyer 71/108 .657 Mary Tankard 18/35 .514
_ ar onne . .
N“‘i.“é°“"°’h 3%??? 21% ,’iii’-’‘’ “ii"ff°“‘ ‘£733 "235
  THE BEST _DELl-BAKERY GREAT SAVINGS on PEPSI Y “°“ "
wlcﬁ T0|(ﬂuiER DIET PEPSI OR .
BAKED HAM wrestling
Final Statistics
9
Player Record Wt. cam em 5
Adam Branson 11-6 118, 126 (I’I"“I "I"‘°" s°“°“ '°°°"I‘)
1 €2£“§E?J§”““ 12:36 i§2"fé‘é Women’s Swimming 8-4
y , , . .
II ' Rob dc Clerk 2-11 134 142 Me“ 5 S“’"'““"‘ 5‘3
Adam Williams 8_6 152 Women’s Basket all 11-10
13 2 I-TR- Cary Hansel 3-8 142,134 W‘°s,‘“g3 b 11 $15.
' .-.....,.(SjI.§.\/C. ]S‘ye_    .. ,. ,, ..  -M.‘?‘.‘.s .“5I‘°.‘ ‘I. . ..   .. .. '
wen mit -
Lea Abcrcrombie 6-1 1 167 Oven" . 37'36
Colin Loomey 10-11 177
Cole Van Nice 16-8 190

   

ucopon sAi.£

VALUABLE COUPON ’ VALUABLE COUPON

; WHEN PURCHASED WITH THIS COUPON WHEN PURCHASED WITH THIS COUPON I

BUY ONE I5.5 OZ. BUY ONE I4-I701. MARIE
I MARZE‘ITI’S DRESSING €ALI.ENDER’S DINNER :

I
I
AND on on: FOR I AND on one MARIE
; ¢ I CALL£NDER’$ EXTRA I
I I

    

  
  

CHEESE LASAGNA F0

3900 All-I-V .

 

 

 

  

Cl
I -= I I
§__ § __ Don't forget the Olympics!
I :— ““o2:?2f.i':"dm'"...... 005* ”“3‘‘’ I 3"” “'c::m':“aa“It!"«ﬁ°:r8."o8" "“””° I .
L3 p..%.m.3é}9iA1_.r§3.fd];;.52aCOU::<:‘DUCE I 3 PUr$<r=;e;é,f>Ih’{.f'r§°f:d]';I;P1?3COUP(F)':qOZEN The most—watched Winter
I-—___.—. . ' W1 ' .
I:-—— Vg 0-‘ 3-- Hamsreeter V_§:E_,gE GJ Olympics of years and
jj:jj1—:“': ji-ijjjjjj

VALUABLE coupon VALUABLE coupon years °°”ti““e mnigh"

I WHEN PURCHASED WITH THIS COUPON WHEN PURCHASED WITH THIS COUPON I W1 th th e grand fl nal e

In BUY ONE FRESH BAKED BUY ONE 8 OZ. MAIIRICE’$ I of the Women's figure-
I BUTTER CROISSANT GOURMET BBO I skating!

AND GET ONE FOR
36,, Jtlcwcéces “'.Wr.*§°.*-"5 I
gA.B£Et!!l3 ...... |
 '  I I WHEN YOU mm:

I
Limit One Item With  PLU 332I U  0 R u N 

 

 

 

1 Z
DDDDD

LimilOne hem With Par PLU 3325

' .5: nuroughmadu I, I994 COUPON I m TI1roughMcircI1 l, I994. COUPON I I
  —‘-— W I I  1 ONE MORE FOR
[!-—- Ilamsmerer & G " Hamsreetet M G 1
j 1 jjj j 1 j

VALUABLE coupon -- AA 0 - I THE “MD
I CAN HAVE AN

      
  

      

    

  
    

  

  
  

Vail AndAdditionaI 5 0.00 NS GROCERY Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00

Porch Oﬂur Good H: 23

CHASED wim mis coupon  if t t  _,  " ‘  
I a"i'II'"o"°II‘E‘°i”§"3if°i‘i'£ii( ” BIIWIII 14-24 ¢T- KOTIX I ENTIRELY = In“°5'{‘e59mI°¥”'r*.P*°F‘*s*"°"-.
I D I I  DOM  PAD |  Six Room Inn includes two jacuui suites with private balconies
N   I N QNRDEEI ONE UGHIDAYS OR E   Includes roomFl?rleIafl?’fals)trz?:: cIIi‘i‘iiceIi"‘i:§retwo one ni ht
AND GE’ N5 F I I N A_ I : . PANTYIJNERS ¢ N   Jacuzzi Suite $120, Carriage House Rooms $1  Bookgahead
 L  I U 3 1 I  I Chef Slewan prepanes Americanregional cuisine daily,
\I I ,.,g«: I I 3  | ' Homemade Pasta, Virginia Leg of Lamb
ﬁ1”% :mfﬂ: 1090100 I :E——:-- m co P‘ “U 8070 I  Tuesday, \N§<IIii‘E:dA‘y,SgLec1i:i|?rsday Only

==-53.-*"=‘-“‘°"'*"' “a

DLDIED

Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two

 

P
P mhuam "I" COUPON I :"" IhvougI\AMmhI,I99A. c   hlM Nigh
j‘ VALUE ___. Spec cm! is
E IIa"Is1eeIeI QJ in Hmnsteeret 295- J  Tuesdays- lntemational Cuisine
1 1 1 III -— -1- 1 1 III -I 1| I-I 1' I-I 1 1  Thursdays- Nonhem Italian Cuisine
   1 _ .  Open nan, Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday&Monday grou of 10+ *‘
P ‘ Eff 1' Th h M h I 1994 r“.°.°“‘%' 1%“‘ms:.:.‘;::;’“:%§::I:"‘1  s=oo«»«»=oo "‘ ’
I‘ Ices  We FOU arc / Dd 31“ 4”‘ “ ‘ - Call for reservations: 463-9715

. drink and ride. OI‘_\'0l1l‘ last  74 U . R Rd Le .
Pric lnThisAdEq¥‘dvve' ed: Feb.23 Throu T , rchl,l994 1I10uI‘Le>_<1I1gt0n Slows 1'1; 'r11b ' ‘is! in‘nk  , _ _ _ RE ( "'°" "" ')’ "'“g'°"
Ony.WeReserve eRigIiITo Limit uonlities. None§IoI<I1'o  We Glady AccepIFederol Food Stamps I ;“;;‘o'$‘Y%:iE scnig; Fuuinmou _-~‘~.    

 

  

Last Week:

WBB-beat Salem, R-MWC
MBB—Randolph-Macon 58, W&L 55

This Week:

MLax—St. Mary’s 02/26
Track-at ODAC Champs 02/26

 

Glhe iﬂirtg-tum iﬂhi

Swim—M. 2nd, W. 1st at Champs
Base-W&L 2, Shenandoah 2

PAGE 10

S

PORTS

Base-at Mary Washington 02/26
MTennis—at Davidson 02/26

FEBRUARY 25, 1994 A

Olympic    
Shafts   A

 

SARAH A j A
sY‘SA13Aii:Gzi.t3aaT’,‘:

 

. V While the Olympi9S.iire ; V
. still fresh on everyéhefs _
mind, I thought I Would 
diverge my attentionto‘the 3
big picture of sports which’, . -V
are not ’-included in th‘e'f,; ;.
) Olympic games. ” ‘  
‘ Many, sports whi.el1""
have found their way into“
’ 0lyrnpiccompetitionseem._:V
' something less than main~ I
stream. At the sarne—time~,-' _
though, othersVwhichlseenV_1V, _ f
to we sillyvArneriVcan‘s,jab-_ ' .
solutely necessary forthe [
continuance. of life Vas_.we_
know it, have been pain- V V
fully excluded. 1 f '
For instance, . who
would ever havecortceived ‘V .
of the _crazines_sf_of the
V .3000-meter sjhorté-track I,
speed-skatingrelay ?Wh_at’[ 
significancejdoes that have A 
on the upholding ofan hon» ’
orable,‘ upriglit life?  g 
Especiallyéwheu sports V
such as foosball have been 
9 » left out. You know, those
simple but inconceivably, V
important social sports.- ‘ ,5
Did you’ ever ask, your, {;
friends and family to join ,2 ‘
you in a little ice dancing?
(Remember, only five sec- A
onds apart at a time, ‘no "
over-the-shoulderlifts, no” '
splits). But ll-O-R-S-E
remains. in America’s
1 backyards and Saturday
open-gym days at the
 local high school.» What 1
a pity. ' » . j
0 To add insult to sequins
and lace, nations spend"
hundreds, ofthousands of
dollars to buyseven or
eight differentcolorsofice.  j
I skates for every skater but V
V  fail_to3$gQander,an Olym,-; .'
picrpennyonthe y ‘ 

    

American football. Weare 
not talking scraped chins? .

V  in-three—pIa§5es,fpig-pile;g ~

home danger::At the very
least, maybe inclusion’ in
I the Olympics .wonld_ bring . I
« some order and -integrity
to football. V j

by shooting. I-lere‘sV a real, ,

  
   
   
 
 

can youth canfrreallyi sink-4.

' their Uzisgintp. . I . .
Will we hair
until Milan or Ref
hosts thetrsummer

 

 

deVar;causes;"  . g V

 ‘ '?W9m¢n—’§.’.tﬁP1éi.fiﬁiiipfiI
‘  has ‘yetf;to_be=tadded toﬂthei‘ 

 however,;l1asbeenaround

   V. 
» tury,butsorne bright

'V';:j,tor.orlcoaV.chV' ‘ , ',
 ‘ decided fwotnen ; did [not . 2

 

§.;*.‘.th°mS¢1V°9 "ut>"..fcfi.>r hop. 
 skip,andj’urnp‘.-G   
~ This little lady from the

~ 5 World record at’; upwards‘ 
‘“ of 47‘ feet {(here.’gsr ‘a hint;  
f , most Divisionellli men xzanjfj f
‘f’ Only 'd1‘feari1_' of: anything , 
 5 abo‘/¢ ,45)'and.Vl would beg
.: ; to differ. 2 5 ~ V . ;_
" :_ ‘According7toV aTscien—,
1;; ‘lie poll of eight people"! A
j tookpin 1994,‘one of two
 people believe softball
should-be included in the ~
volyrnpics. All of the sup-.
» porters, however; were ’
 .W°m¢n-.(And you guessed
 it, thedetractors were all
0 men.) I think this indicates 1
1 . “ ad deep-rooted worldwide
» ‘ ‘bias againjst women being
.» included in sports-related
-activities. In fact, men‘ are A '

   

  
 

 semen aﬁd.‘.'W§°iﬂd-rather
*3 not validatettheir talent by "

; vlettingfuiem‘ .CV0..mpete on

. -the same‘ level.

. ' Wo_men’s triple jump in ‘ ‘ «
 ’96!;.That’sall.‘*»  

 threatening institution ofp:

V here; this is legs-broken- V »

steroid-drivenv down-‘ ’

And thentherieisdrive’-1.1» ‘

moderri,:sport that.Ameri-, 

until bocci  inching’ ark 

What kind... ’ ot_ldV;r t, 
that woII_lcl,f V _ I if 
. ing and nottbocci.
Afte I ‘ I

   

jﬁf - canniO£‘leavei‘yon without‘ V9
 plﬁgginsone.¢£cmr‘most}~ ~

le;,',:o1ys;p;c_ troster. MeVn’-s,*j?

rams‘ V 

. have ;the‘:,strength to hold): . . 

V; Ukraine,<who~'*hol‘ds the 

I .intimidated by athletic 5

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

Swimmers qualify provisionally

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

It’s one thing to swim teams
out of your league, but it’s quite
another matterentirely when you
beat them.

The Washington and Lee
men’s swim team put together
the finishing touches on one of
its strongest years with a second
place finish at the Southern States
Championships. In the field,
W&L was the only Division III
team. By comparison, VMI fin-
ished eighth. The only team to
defeat the Generals was the Col-
lege of Charleston.

Swimmer John Rowe wished
the meet had gone better.“We
would have won the meet had we
had a diving team,” he said.

Divingwas scored in the meet

Wrestlers wrap up season

along with the swimming events.

Along with the overall team
performance, Washington and
Lee had a number of swimmers
who might possibly go to nation-
als. John Rowe, Craig Sears, and
Tony Diedrich all swam consid-
eration times. Rowe, a junior,
won the 400-yard individual
medley while Sears finished sec-
ond in the 200-yard individual
medley. Diedrich swam his time
in the 200-yard freestyle.

Two relay teams also stand a
good chance of representing
W&L at nationals. The 800-
yard freestyle and the 400-yard
freestyle teams won their events
while posting qualifying times.

Coach Paige Remillard, who
posted his 100th win during the
season, summed up the meet by
saying, “We swam out of our
minds. I think we definitely rep-

 
 

 

resented W&L well.”

For the season as a whole,
Remillard was quick to praise his
athletes. The coach spoke about
the athletes, not assured of a place
in the NCAA’s, who were in the
pool training, “A high percent-
age of people can ’t mentally train
inthatcondition,butthey’ve been
doing it.”

Remillard and Rowe both
agreed it was an outstanding year
forthe team. According to Rowe,
“ lt’s been a great season.”

Remillard summed up the
year. “It was deﬁnitely a year to
remember in a coaching career.”

One of the most improtant
aspects of the men’steam lies in
the fact that everyone returns
next year. “The meet gave them
a lot of confidence. They’re very
fired up about next year,” said
Remillard. He also added the the

squad was “on the threshhold of
being a great team.”

Rowe fully agreed with
Remillard. “We’re looking for-
ward to this [past meet] being the
predecessor to another great

year,” said the All-American.

For most sports teams, the sea-
son revolves around expectations.
For the Washington and Lee
women’s swim team, the year
was about fulﬁlled expectations.

After winning 16of17 events
in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference last season and los-
ing the meet, and a four out of
five year conference meet win-
ning streak, because of a scoring
rule, the Generals entered this
year with one goal in mind: to
win it all. Washington and Lee
once again won 16of17events in
the meet, but this time took home
first place honors.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The season for the Washington and Lee wres-
tling team came to an end in the Virgina Division
Il—llI State Championship.

The Generals finished fourth in the meet,
partly because of a rash of injuries that slowed
the team at the end of the year. Cole Van Nice,
the team leader in victories, with 16, and pins,
with nine, was unable to participate because of a
recurrent knee injury. Anthony Rafla and Adam
Williams were also unable to compete due to
injury. To add to the Generals’ woes, freshman
Adam Branson failed to make weight in the 118
pound class. A

There was definitely a positive side to the
meet for W&L, however. Junior co-captain Eric
Shirley became the first wrestler to win a cham-
pionship at the meet since 1989 with a victory in
the 126 pound weight class. Also for the Gener-
als, Steve Tye and Rob DeClerk placed second in
the 156 and 134 pound weight classes respec-
tively.

The Generals also turned in three third place
ﬁnishes. Colin Looney, Lee Abercrombie, and
Owen Smith all placed third in their respective
weight classes.

“I think it was a rewarding experience this
season,” said coach Gary Franke.

The men’s team finished the year on one leg
so to speak due to injuries. Franke said, “We had
some tough breaks at the end of the year. We
were going along really well and then peoplejust
started dropping off.” .

While the end of the season was difficult for
the Generals, most of the frustration was due to

 

Washington and Lee wrestlers struggled to the fourth place at the Div.

Ice skating: is it a conspiracy?
Some other Olympic notes

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WII.LIARD

At this point, I could follow
the rest of the media blitz and
report to the public at large that
Michael Jordan made contact
with a baseball the other day.
However, I’m going to resist that
urge, as well as the urge to com-
plain about how MJ is drawing
attention awayfrom the game at
hand. Besides, I’m abigger man
than that. Let’s move on.

Think about this fact for a
minute. When was the last time
that ice skating was the hottest
story in sports for this long? Per-
sonally, I maintain that this is the
best thing that ever happened to
the most incredibly exciting sport
in the athletic pantheon. In case
you live in a hole, I’m talking
about the Kerrigan—Harding
battle royale.

Speaking of Kerrigan. That
Walt Disney-typecast-Camp-
bell’s soup kid-dream child is
beginning to get really annoying.
The whole damn incident was
one big plot to get both women
more dough (after all, ice skating
is not the highest paying of ath-
letic endeavors).

The other Main Event of the
past break was the John
Chaney—John Calipari pseudo-
brawl after the best basketball

game of the year to this point..

Chaney, after his Temple Owls
fell to the University of Massa-
chusetts Minutemen, charged
into Calipari’s press conference
and threatened Coach Calipari.
According to ESPN commenta-

tor John Miller, “ The only thing
missing from that press confer-
ence was Tonya Harding.” Fol-
lowingthe incident, Temple Uni-
versity suspended Chaney for
one game.

In the Olympics, some stuff
happened, and the United States
hockey team failed to win the
gold. Oh wel1,back to real sports.

The National Basketball As-
sociation finally replaced the
Legends game with an all-rookie
contest for All-Starweekend. At
least the players were not blow-
ing out knees and having heart
attacks and such this year.

College basketball featured a
premier series of upsets, and
amazing stories. The University
of North Carolina fell to Atlantic
Coast Conference cellar dweller
Clemson. Kansas fell to Okla-
homa State, and worst of all Lou-
isville lost to UNC Charlotte and
Tulane.

The most unbelievable story
of the week had to be the Ken-
tucky Louisiana State basketball
game. With LSU leading by the
score of 68-37 with 15 minutes
to go in the game at HOME, UK
got everythingmovinginthe right
direction. Rick Pitino’s squad
exploded for 12 three pointers as
the Wildcats went on to win the
game by the score of 99-95.

Parting Shots -

Quote of the year: from
ESPN’s Dan Patrick, “Ron
Tugnut— it makes me smilejust
to say that name - had 25 saves
in the game.” (The man with the
golden name is a National
Hockey League goalie).

How does UNC lose to

File Ph°‘° injuries. Without the misfortunes that befell the

team, the season might have ended in a much

different way.

Clemson? The Tigers have had
somethinglike one winningACC
season in the last millennium.
Note — The Atlanta Braves
will beat the ever—living fool out
ofthe Phillies during the season.
Did you know that Norway is
erecting another statue to a speed
skater (yes, they already have
one.). Does this tell you a
littlesomething about the nation

of Norway?

One good story has come out
of the Olympics at least. Dan
Jansen ﬁnally won the gold. Af-
ter so many failures, Jansen man-
aged to win the 1000m in world
record time.

Finally, I guess I’m not sure
who won the freaking Pro-Bowl.
Besides, as my lovely editor said,
“What is the Pro-Bowl anyway?”

 

The title was actually a dual
championship for the Generals.
The team won the Atlantic States
championship as well (the first
such title since 1991) as winning
the conference meet, which was
scored separately within the At-
lantic States meet.

The meet was a record breaker
in many respects for the Gener-
als. W&L set ﬁve school records
duringthe meetwith all five com-
ing from the relay teams.

Coach Kiki Jacobs said of the
meet, “Nobody had a lousy meet.
Everyone was psyched and ev-
erybody swamreally well.”
Sophomore Rebekah Prince
quliﬁcd for nationals automati-
cally in the 200—yard backstroke.
In addition, she swam consider-
ation times while winning the
200—yard IM and 100—yard back.

Prince was not the only W&L

swimmer to have an outstanding
meet. Freshman Jen Miller tﬂsd
Prince for top scoring honors and
was named swimmerofthe meet.
As a team, every swimmer swam
at least one personal best time.
As a result of W&L’s tremen-
dous performance, coach Kiki
Jacobs was named coach of die
year for Atlantic States.

The season in general was a
great one for the W&L women.
Senior captain Jeanette Burgess
said, “Over all, I think this was
the best season we’ve had.”

The increased numbcroof
swimmers greatly aided the Gen-
erals, and a strong freshman class
presents promise of future suc-
cess. According to Burgess, the
team also evolved as a unit dur-
ing this season, “We got along
really well as well as swimmgig
really fast times.”

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

For the third straight year,
the Washington and Lee men’s
basketball season ended ear-
lier than had been hoped. The
Generals failed the make the
Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Tournament when
they were defeated by
Randolph-Macon College last
Saturday in Asheville.

The 58-55 loss was a bitter
one in that the Generals held a
55-46 lead with five minutes
left, but were shutout the rest
ofthe way asthe Yellow Jack-
ets scored the final 12 points
of the game. Thus, W&L (9-
15, 6-12 ODAC) enters its
longest post-season play
drought in three decades.

Even had the Generals held
on for the crucial win, they
would have failed to qualify
for the ODAC Tournament
that began Wednesday in Sa-
lem because the team needed
Eastern Mennonite to do
something they had not done
all season—win a conference
game. The task was too much
for the Royals (0-18 ODAC)
as they fell to Emory and
Henry on Saturday.

The 1993-94 season was
still a much improved one for
W&L. Their nine wins are the
team’s most since 1990-91,
and the Generals’ six ODAC
victories are double last
season’s total.

Unfortunately, competi-
tion withinthe conference was
much tougher this season. Af-
ter the conference’s top two
squads, 17-1 Roanoke and
second place Hampden-
Sydney, the ODAC standings
were fairly well bunched. With
one week of regular season
play remaining, only three
games had separated third
place from eighth. Although
only five wins were needed to
make last year’s Tournament,
six just was not enough for
this year’s Generals.

W&L kept their fate unde-
cided until the final day, cour-
tesy oftheirmostdecisivevic—
tory, a 102-81 romping of
Eastern Mennonite last
Wednesday. The win was the
450th in the 30-year coach-
ing career of W&L’s Verne
Canfield.

Washington and Lee led
by as many as 49 points in that
contest (70-21) as six Gener-
als scored in double figures.
Sophomore Derek Carter
scored 15 first-half points and
finished with a team—high 17.
Carter ended his second sea-
son as a General with a scor-
ing-average just under 10-
per-game (9.8) and averaged
six rebounds. Carter was sec-
ond on the team in both cat-
egories, trailing classmate
Cam Dyer, whose 15.0 aver-
age was the school’s highest
in three seasons, and senior
Robert Miggins.

W&L’s defense limited
Randolph-Macon to 38 per-
cent shooting. However, the
Yellow Jackets netted 11
three-pointers. Dan Prescott
led all-scorers with 29 points
for R-MC, matching the total
of teammate Kurt Axe in the
Jackets’ four-point win over
the Generals last month at the

Basketball misses
ODAC tournament.

Warner Center.

Carter again led the Gen-
erals in scoring, recording 13
points and a team-high 10
rebounds. He was one ofmany
young stars the Generals wll
be returning next year. W&L’s
top five scorers——Dyer,
Carter, freshman Chris
Couzcn, junior Mark
Connclly,and sophomorcJon
Coffman-will all be back
next season, giving Carter ren
son to be optimistic of the
team’s potential.

‘‘I think we’ve got a real
solid core of players to build
on for next year,” said Carter.
“Our time is due. We’ve put
in the work, we’ve matured,
and we’ve really come to-
gether as a team.”

Canficld does, however,
have the unfortunate task of
having to replace the team’s
best passer, senior Matt New-
ton, and one of the school’.s
best-ever rebounders,
Miggins.

Newton (7.5 ppg this sea-
son) ends his W&L careerwith
439 points and 142 assists.
Carterthinks Newton’spoint—
guard position will be a difg-
cult one to fill.

“We’rc really goingto miss
his experience at pointguard,”
Carter said. “His composure
on the floor, and the way he
ran the offense will be sorely
missed.”

Miggins (7.2 ppg, 6.3 1Q-
bounds) became the first
W&Lplayersince Mike Neer
(1968-70) to lead the team in
rebounds three consecutive
seasons. Miggins also re-
corded 28 blocked shots this
season, the most by a Genenl
since 1980-81, and finishes
third in the W&Lrecord books
in that category. The team’s
total of 76 was the higcst for
the team in 15 years.

Despite alloftheimprove-
ments over last year’s 5-39
season, the 1993-94 Gener-
als eliminated themselves
from post-season play by fin-
ishing the season nearly the
some way they began it, drop-
ping four of five. The team
kicked-off their season dro.-
ping five of their first six.

In between, they went an
impressive 7-6. Victories ovcr
top-rated Amherst College,
pre-season ODAC favorite
Emory and Henry, defending
ODAC champion Virgin’;
Wesleyan, and home-cour't-
cursed Lynchburg made for
one of the most exciting sea-
sons the Warner Centcr had
hosted in years.

The campaign took a
swerve for the worst, thoug ,
when W&L dropped an i -
portant home game to
Lynchburg by five points just
before the February recess
from classes. While the stu-
dent body was away,the Gen-
erals lost a 74-63 thrilleridi
front of 2042 hostile fans t
Roanoke, then were blown-
outby VirginiaWes|eyan,78-»
60. That loss made a Tourna-
ment berth an improbability
despite the win at Eastern
Mennonite.

Forallbuttwo members a‘
the squad, there is a next year.
With more of the improve-
ment they showed this sea-
son, 1994-95 could be the sea-
son W&L returns to the top of

 

 

 

{ Faniy 'Dres's

 

 

 

 

  

 

o a o 3

\

DE?

9'8: Jung-mm J>at,J=e6;uarg 25. 1994 ,

Jerry Ieff unites North and South

New York-born Texan brings country rock

 
  

  
   

By BUNNY WONG
Supplement Assistant Editor

The Pavilion will twang with the strains
of country music Thursday, March 3, when
Texas country-rocker Jerry Jeff Walker and
his band, The Gonzo Compadres perform.

Composerofthe classic “Mr. Bojangles,”
Walker has produced 23 albums chroni-
cling true love, mournful loss, high living,
and fast traveling. His latest album, Hill
Country Rain, was recorded for his own
independent label, Tried & True Music,
which is Texas-based. Tried & True’s prod-
ucts are distributed internationally by
Rykodisc.

Walker’s first album, Circus Maximus,
was released in 1967 by Vanguard. One
year after his 1968 classic "Mr. Bojangles"
was produced.

“Mr. Bojangles” was inspired by hisluly
5 arrest in New Orleans for public intoxica-
tion in the French Quarter, where he met
street singer “Bojangles” in the drunk tank.

Walker started touring in 1993, to coin-
cide with the release of Hill Country Rain.
While Hill CountryRain sounds like a name
straight out of Texas, Walker was actually
born in Oneonta, New York.

Born March 16, 1942, Walker was born
with the name Ronald Clyde Crosby. In
1957 he began performing in numerous teen
combos around Oneonta. In 1963, Walker
arrived in Texas after hitchhiking to New
Orleans and street—singing in the French
Quarter. Soon after, as “Jerry Ferris,”
Walker met Babe Stovall who taught him to
play and sing.

It was in 1966 that Walker adopted his
current name and
formed the Lost Sea
Dreamers, ‘which
later became the
house band at the
Electric Circus in
New York City. In
1967 their name was
changed to Circus
Maximus. The band
split in 1968, when
Walker cut his first
solo single for Atco
Records and released
his Mr. Bojangles al-
bum.

In 1974 Walker
got married and re-
leased Walker’s Collectibles. Life was up-
hill from there, and from family life to
music, Walker was getting rave reviews.

Writes Edwin Pouncey ofWalker’s 1991
album, Navajo Rug, “Navajo Rug’ is fairly
bursting with muscular spirit and never-
say-die determination, some of which is
outrageously hilarious and full of good—old-
boy cheer.”

Bill and Hillary Clinton and Al and Tip-
per Gore agree. Writes Mary Alma Welch
in The Washington Post, “The Clinton-Gore
fab foursome created quite a stir, and a

 

standingovation,when they
dropped in at the Birchmere
in Alexandria, VA...to take
in the Jerry Jeff Walker
Show.”

From cowboys to
middle-aged desk drones,
Walker has many fans glad
to revel with him. Having
been in show business
nearly 30 years, Walker’s
old rowdiness has softened
a little.

Writes Deborah
Hopewell, Mercury News
staff writer, “Walker
doesn’t shy away from trot-
ting out his kick-butt an-
thems of old, even though
at 50 he’s a little wiser and
a lot more temperate. These
days, the reprobate themes
of good drunks and naughty
women have given way to
thoughtful reflections on
marriage, mortality and
moderation.” Hopewell
goes on to add, however,
that Walker doesn’t let that
“get in the way of having a
good time.”

Walker had a good time
in 1982 when his 40th birth-
day featured an all-day con-
cert at Town Lake with
“seemingly every band in
Austin,” according to a
press release. Other aspects
of his life were more seri-
ous and businesslike—in
1987 Tried & True Music
signed an international dis-
tribution agreement with Rykodisc.

One thing has re-
mained constant in
Walker’s singing-his
penchant for hope and
his talent for small
town charm.

Walkerreminisces
about small town life,
and the Hill Country
of Texas that he con-
siders home in a new
song:

You’ll see lots of
smiling faces

Little children run-
ning around

E v e r y b o d y ’ s
somebody “

in an old Hill Country town

Writes a CMJ Music Report, “Hill Coun-
try Rain is reminiscent of Walker’s days
with the Lost Gonzo Band, with lots of
tinkling piano, slinky dobro and his gravely
vocals. The strength of this disc is surely a
reflection of Walker’s songs...Walkerstruts
his stuff, proving once again he’s one of
Texas’ ﬁnest troubadours.”

Although Hill Country Rain might be
reminiscent of Walker’s days with the Lost
Gonzo Band, it carries the strains of modern
life. In “Time To Stay Home,” Walker

 

to FD

reminds the public that:

AIDS is to real to be foolish

It ’s changed all the rules we play by

The all-American Walker has been com-
pared to Jimmy Buffet, both having
unclassiﬁable music, mostly country, partly
county-rock, mixed in with lots of twangy
guitar and raucous jam.

Even though his music, in mirroring the
times, may seem a little more serious, he has
not lost any of his joie de vivre—:

‘Cause I got a feeling

Something that I can ’t explain
Like dancing naked
In that high hill country rain

The other musical groups to perform this
weekend in the Marshall Tucker Band open-
ing for Jerry Jeff Walker on Thursday night
in the Pavillion, the B0 Thorpe Orchestra in
the Big Gym on Friday, and the Waller
Family in the Small Gym also on Friday.
For those stories, please see the stories on
pages 14 and 15.

 

 

ffalie a ca

As intricate as the
Arabian nights them-
selves, Warner Center
0nMarch4thwillbetrans- ,
formed into a dazzling .
scene from faraway lands. '

Approaching the Warner Center, stu-
dents will encounter fountains with real
water and lights. Upon entering, students
come upon an Islamic archway with onion
domes, red carpet, and many plants.

‘‘It is going to be a 16 inch tall wooden
structure. We’ve got a big red carpet that
comes down and out the from,” said Alison
Oneacre, entrance Sub-Chairwoman.

As one follows the red carpet into the

9

By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writerr

rpet ribe tliruf

building “the walls

will be covered

with all different col-
ors of fabric: red, green,
midnight blue, and all
with gold accents,” said
Sarah Tune, entrance Sub-Chairwoman.
“We’rejust trying to make it really colorful
and bright. You can’t put a lot in the
hallway —— just cover the walls —— because
it’s so crowded in there during Fancy Dress,
and we don’t want traffic to be a problem.”
Turn to the right and you will be in the

I See'DECOR)«.9'IONSyagel8

 

A agical Carpet Ride revisits theme of 1929

/
'7 By '_“i”;x.
Q DEBORAH ZOLLMAN 
I Phi Staff Writer

 
   

This year’s Fancy Dress theme,
“A Magical Carpet Ride,” is a new
twist on an old theme.

The Fancy Dresstheme of 1929
was “Arabian Nights.” The 1929
Ball “surpassed by far its famous
predecessors in brilliance and nov-
elty,” according to an old Ring-
tum Phi article.

Says one headline about the
1929 Fancy Dress, “Gill declares
1929 Fancy Dress Decorations to
surpass all.”

W&L’s 23rd Fancy Dress Ball
was opened with a preliminary ﬁg-
ure, or dance, led by Lewis F.
Powell, former Justice of the Su-
preme Court and Class of 1929.
Powell did a dramatic presenta-
tion ofthe Arabian Nights.

“Two pantomime ﬁgures were
conducted. Lewis Powell, Rich-
mond, and Miss Sally Barret, Rich-
mond, led the preliminary figure.
They represented the Caroline pe-
riod of American history.

Willis Van Gilbert, Athens,
Ala., and Miss Fitzie Fitzpatrick,
Washington, assisted them as visi-

tors from Spain,” says one 1929
Phi article.

Others also did “ﬁgures,” like
Miss Sophia Dunlap. Says a 1929
Phi article: “Miss Dunlap, who
will take the part of Scheherazade,
the cunning wife of the Sultan
Schahriar, will be brought in on a
gilt litter. Four freshmen have
been chosen to act as slaves, and
Miss Dunlap will take her place
beside the Sultan T. B. Gibson.

The other members of the fig-
ure will portray the characters of
the tales which Scheherazade re-
counts to the Sultan.”

Foreign dancers captivated
those in attendance. The “Thou-
sand and One” were represented
by these dancers. The Sultan and
Sultana arose at the end, leading
outthe Sultan’s court andthe char-
acters portrayed. The entire per-
formance lasted 45 minutes.

The 1929 Fancy Dress was at
the end of the hey-days of the Ball,
when thousands of people attended
and bands from all over the coun-
try, such as Duke Ellington, per-
formed.

“Between six and eight hun-
dred guests are expected to arrive
in Lexington between now and
Friday forthis gala event,” says an
article about the 1929 Ball.

Not only did students decorate

 

.Zy$\—’T‘

the gym in great splendor, but they
took great care with their dramatic
presentations, practicing over
and over.

Ted Weems and his orchestra
played for the occasion. They
were ﬁlling engagements on their
way to New York, where they were
playing in a New York musical
show. They came to Lexington
from Cincinnati.

The Arabian Nights ball was
the 7th Fancy Dress Ball directed
by Professor Carl E. Gill, associ-
ate professor of Economics and
Business Administration in the
Commerce School. He directed
the splendid and colorful costumes
and all of the decorations.

Students held Gill in high re-
spect—“Fancy Dress! Finals! And
with them is linked one name
which has done more than perhaps
any other in making them what
they have come to be known as-—
Carl E. L. Gill...he is a distinct
attribute to Washington and Lee!”

With the 1929 “Arabian Nights”
Fancy Dress, Gill had completed
seven years’ service as director of
decorations and effects of what
was then called the “Washington
and Lee mid-winter dances.”

Others schools tried to hire Gill
to decorate their dances but
he refused.

‘J'ﬁe mﬁg-tum mt. J’e6r:arg 25. 1994

 

   
     

J!‘ “"!‘.""?l".”‘!!' I "L": ..

 
 
  

. mom: ..

   

No Deposit

For your 1994 Fancy Dress TUXEDOS
-Rent for $48.00 Basic
$52.00 Full Dress

-Buy for $265

(And Never Have To Rent Again)

Charge

OLLEGE TOWN SH

111 W. Nelson St.

463-2731

Visa

Mastercard

   

     

 -ea.
§§'§~...§’  A

   

Amex

 

 

Ismgtggio-ns: V Memorabilia: “cl
“ ' a“'Derson- anessa . , _ Playbill: 3’
MacKinlay Sub-Chairperson 'SJt:m“fef°  Sub-Chairperson - Andrea Cobrin 3.’
Members-Margaret Fitts, em Méﬁssphamco '3 Cobrénz Articles - Betsy Blunt, Rachel *3;
Kara Kimzey Owe aM  Cook §
ns’ ansa r Layout - Richard Weaver 3,
Research - Maurice Cole .3.’ M
C #3 Anvertisments - Meredith E
°"‘er ‘ B Gambl P ks
Sub-Chairperson - Sally Ball mwm e ar E

Members - Chad Dobbins, Kg

Corner #4: Shannon Foster SF
Sub-Chairperson-Kris Fegenbush ‘g

Members-Tma Hand, Ann B 81 c on y:
Howard Corner #2:

Sub-Chairperson - Jennifer Queen
Members - Jess Graf, Pete
Hammond

Sub-Chairperson - Jennifer “Goose”
Garrigus
Members - Alex Cross,
Joanna Munsen

 
  
 
   

Hallway:
Sub-Chairperson - Sarah Time
Members - Kim Davis,
Jenni Robison

Corner #1:    /
Sub-Chairperson - Jennifer Jones. ‘ Doremus Gymnasium,
Members '_ M98 Kmderv Em Elﬁmfwcg Sub-Chairperson - Melissa Byrd,
Shlrley Entrance, Wendy Alexander .
Sub-Chai,-person _ Alison Oneacre Members - Todd Denbo, Kylie
Members - Margaret Cox, Edwards, Laura
res er

Warner Gymnasium: _ Drew Denbo 0
Sub-Chairperson Coordinator -

Carrie Baker ’ A e '

Construction:
Publicity; Sub-Chairperson-Joe Frampton
S“b'°h:‘1:P;;§°I;‘;:‘;‘ H“I$iet Chairperson -Monica Robinson Big G’"§'iZL';ii Keesee’ John '
ons- s en .
Moore Vice Chairperson - Kendall Sibley Balcony/Entrance-Leo
Public Relations-Meghan Auditor - Julie Townsend Decanini
Han, Ashley Simon Ceiling/Risers-Doug Burns
Publicity-Molly Apter, Bob Small Gym-Jarrod Aldon,
Belsher Tory Noto

....\.‘I
— nut-1

 

X

WEED

5'ﬁe'§tng-tum J'-W. 72::-nary 25. 1994

A magical Cc’iI‘,DC‘f ride through

       
 

  

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor

With free admission and an orchestra
furnished by VMI, Washington and Lee’s
first Fancy Dress in 1907 was not quite the
gala it is now.

Annie Jo Robertson White, the college
librarian, founded FD “in order to rid her-
self of a troublesome $44,” notes a 1929 Phi
article. White had directed a student play to
raise money for a student organization. The
play netted $44 more than she had promised
to pay the organization.

White decided to use the money for a
small student dance and sent out invitations,
with the stipulation that attendees had to pay
approximately two dollars for their cos-
tumes. Those unable to afford costumes
could work for them.

While FD’s popularity escalated in the
1920s, receiving national coverage, the
“Hill” was not originally as tolerant of FD
hangovers and shenanigans.

An old Phi article notes that “the Uni-
versity gave no holiday for such useless
affairs as a Fancy Dress Ball. Students
might dance all night at the biggest ball of
the year with the understanding, however,
that they return to class at at 9 a.m. with
lessons prepared.”

An affair running from Wednesday to
Sunday morning was a notion that would
not come until later.

An early-century FD notion that was
popular earlier that is not now was costume
garb. The idea of a costume ball required

1959 FD President Murray Wadsworth escorts his date.

students to dress themselves appropriately.

ln 1907, thePhi reported, “a favorite
costume...was King Arthur’s armor-the stu-
dents coming to the dance class in steel mail
from their helmeted head to their steeled
legs. Butonce was enough. ltcramped their
style.”

Students came up with interesting cos-
tumes in 1919, including B.W. Buford as “a
Grecian Boy,” Miss Virginia Sproull of
Anniston, Alabama as the “W & L Swing,”
Miss Ada Tyler of Sweet Briar as “Balloon
Girl,” and JL. Glover as “Yama Yama.” A
“Yama Yama?” One can only wonder.

If students have trouble renting a tux
now, consider this article on Fancy Dress
from 1919: “[Participants] John A. Witt as
Oberon, King of the Faries [sic] and Miss
Cotton Timberlake as Titiana, Queen of the
Faries were dragged in on a chariot deco-
rated as a lily.

The chariot which was brilliantly lighted
by'tiny electric blubs was drawn by four
faries assisted by the court attendants. As
the chariot reached the woodland glade the
King and Queen mounted the throne which
was encirlced by court attendants and la-
dies-in—waiting with the foresters, wood
nymphs, and butterflies seated among the
cedar trees.”

By the 1920s, FD was in full force.
Thousands of people were in attendance
and newspapers from New York to Texas
commented on it. Labled by the New York
Times as “the outstanding collegiate social
event of the south,” FD was broadcasted
over national radio networks.

A 1929 Phi headline reads “Fancy Dress
Decorations To Surpass All.” Throughout
the 20s, hundreds of young women from
Baltimore, Atlanta, New Orleans, and
Charleston traveled to Lexington for FD.
Sometimes they even
rented out entire
boxcars.

Elaborate costumes
were ordered from Van
Horn’s, a company in
Philadelphia. The ball
made its debut to
America via Walter
Winchell and the Lucky
Strike Radio Network
hookup.

In accordance with
the extravagance of
Fancy Dress in the
1920s, some ofthe big-
gest orchestras and jazz
bands of the day were
contracted to play mu-
sic.
These included
Duke Ellington, Count
Basie, Bennie
Goodman, and Jimmy
Dorsey.

The Ball was oncea
series of winter and
spring dances including
aJuniorProm,aSopho-
more Cotillion, and the
Final Ball. The latter
has eclipsed its prede-
cessors, which no
longer exist.

Calyx Photo

 

2‘ ' at
Calyx Photo

Above: A group of students from the 1960 Evolution of Man Ball.
Below: The l96l’s Shakespeare in the Court of King James I.

Calyx Photo

While times have changed, one element
has remained constant throughout the years
— the contraversy swirling around Ball
organizers.

In 1936 one student wrote a letter be-
moaning the risingprice ofcostumes. Glenn
Shively, president of the Fancy Dress Com-
mittee, responded to the letter in the Phi.

“The committee felt justified in charging
the additional sixty cents to take care of
losses or damages to the costumes, and any
profit that mgiht be made was to go to the
Fancy Dress Fund,” he said. Apparently the
student had suggested that profits were be-
ing channeled elsewhere.

Although neither the national Broad-
casting Company nor the Columbia Broad-
casting System carried the dance in 1936,
there were the watchful eyes of chaperons to
keep those ﬁne young Washington and Lee
gentlemen in line.

Fancy Dress reflects the volatility of the
decades. In the 1940s and 50s, themes
revolved around light-hearted reconstruc-
tions of the lives of the rich and famous.

Examples include 1935’s “Congress of
Vienna” and 1950’s “King Arthur’s Court.”
Themes like “The Works of Shakespeare”

 

and “Mozart’s ‘Don Giovanni”’ refelected
the “high society” feel of the Ball.

Worlds of riches and merriment, how-
ever, were partially shattered by the on-
slaught of the turbulent late sixties and early
seventies.

From 1970 until 1973 there were only
concerts, and in 1971 there was no Ball.

The 1969 Ball had “psychedelic music
and a professional light show,” and it was
recommended that students go for tie-dye
instead of black tie.

Fancy Dress was temporarily suspended
in 1971 due to “a greatly reduced budget
and past history of of student disinterest.”

A disillusioned allumnus wrote “for the
old grad from General Lee’s college it is the
most shattering break with the past since the
Generals dropped out of big time football.”

The only other time Fancy Dress was not
held was when it was supended in 1945 and
1946 due to the war.

Fancy Dress did return in 1972, but in a
quiet way. “The cost is the inhibitive thing,”
said the Dance Board Chairman. ‘‘I don’t
want to spend more than $2,500 to $3,000
on the thing.”

So in 1972 students paid $5.00 to hear

 

Q

 

. traetns-«w»m.re6~«rsz5.I994 . it D 3: . . .

«:03 A M F 
L°‘_12*_‘*_**/ 5* '

  the hislorg of Fancg Dress

ShaNaNa. But Fancy Dress would become
great once more at the end of the decade,
returning to themes like “Passport to Paris”
and “Glories of Egypt.”

The dance was held in Fairfax Lounge,
Evans Dining Hall, and General headquar—
ters in 1976, “A Salute To Hollywood.”

No longer enamored of tie-dye, one stu-
dent hoped that “all gentlemen attending
will display the proper attire of place tie. If
not, the burly and altogether unpleasant
doorman may be tempted to violence.”

l976’s Ball, however, was not so formal
as to be stuffy.

Hypnotist Edwin L. Baron, director of
the Hypnotist lnsitute of Chicago, was
present to hynotize voluntary subjects into
gobbling imaginary watermelon.”

The headline gracing a 1976 edition of
the Phi read “Fancy Dress weekend arrives-
University braces for hangover.”

Now Fancy Dress has returned to the
lavish decorations characterisitic of previ-
ous decades, immersed in the spell of a
magic carpet ride.

This year, students will be able to create
their own thousand and one tales, admist
scenes of splendor and imagination.

The research of Todd Peppers for the
I 990 FD supplement contributed to the
information in this article.

ll

In 1973, Billy Preston played in concert in place in of a formal ball. Calyx Photo

Q: Why was Aiaciciin Blue?
A: Because he  not get his
FD Tux at Totauy Party!

 

Ride your magic carpet to Totally Party for all your FD needs-
Tuxedos start at $44.50
Rental and Consignment Dresses, too.

Tables, chairs, linen, china, tents, decorations, and more!
US Hwy. 11 North 464-5720 F

r
.
OCOCODQ000000O00000O0O00000000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
C
COOOOCOCOOO0OOOOOOOO0OOOOOOO0OCOOOOOCCOCCCOOIOOOOOOOOOOO

  

 

8

Roots of Arabian
tales shrouded
in tradition,
history and culture

 
  
  

   

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor

The stories of the Arabian nights are magical not only in
and of themselves but also in their origin.

While they are of various ethnic origins: lndian, Persian,
and Arabic, handed down in storytelling, a common factor
runs through all the various versions of the tales. All reﬂect
lslam's cultural and artistic history.

According to legend, the stories are told by the beautiful
Scheherazade to her husband King Shahrayar, who has a
history of killing his wives. Every day Shahrayar would
order his servants to bring him a woman, marry her, and
then order her killed the next day.

Queen Scheherazade was one of these women but
averted death by her storytelling ability and clever wit. By
putting off telling the last half of a story, Scheherazade
saves herself. Each night King Shahrayar tells himself he
will wait until the story is ﬁnished to kill her, but the clever
Queen begins yet another story each night. In the end, after
1001 tales, the King does not kill the Queen and everyone
lives happily ever after.

The tales have a fairylike kind of optimism to them:
“Scheherazade cures Shahrayar of his hatred of women,
teaches him to love, and by doing so saves her own life and
wins a good man,” writes Husain Haddawy.

In the tales themselves, characters convert, redeem, save
lives, and ﬁnd happiness. They embody the classic themes
of good and evil, intertwined with magical orientalism.
“Even angry demons are humanized and paciﬁed by a good
story,” writes Haddawy.

The first written documentation of the tales was in the

I SccTA|.f5. pagcus

irae Ring-tum Piit,Fe6rug'g 25,1994

Ruins throughout the Middle E st
of a 1001 nights. Pictured here is te Palace 0

   

€

and remindrs tolthe culture that created the
f Darius, a building used for royal functions.

  

A: .-

stories

 

Rimsky-Korsakov makes music of 1001 tales

   
    

 
 
 

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor V

The magic of the Arabian nights is
embodied not only in literature but
also in music. .

Nicholas Rimsky-Korsakov, one of
the greatest Russian operatic compos-
ers, created the composition
Scheherazade in 1888.

In 1929, 41 years later,
Scheherazade was played at W&L’s
Fancy Dress ball.

“The music of Scheherazade is char-
acterized by a decorative splendor be-
fitting the fantastic wonders in the Ara-
bian tales. Oriental colors and pictur-

esque qualities are consistently sus-
tained,” writes James Baskt in A His-
tory of Soviet-Russian Music.

The musical refrain occurring in
Scheherazade’s theme in Scheherazade
underlies the fact that it is Scheherazade
who narrates the Arabian tales. The
musical episodes of Scheherazade are
based on the 1001 Nights

The first parts in the first edition of
Scheherazade are “The Sea and
Sinbad’s Ship,” “The Tale of Prince
Kalender,” “The Prince and the Prin-
cess,” “The Festival at Baghdad,” and
the “Shipwreck.”

“Disclaiming interest in the hero
and his fate, Korsakov preferred de-
scriptive and colorful musical episodes,
based on fairy tale subjects,” writes
Baskt.

Rich in tone and rejoicing in sound,

Rimsky-Korsakov’s Scheherazade is
a happy rendition of a fairy tale.
Scheherazade, like 1001 Nights is a
loose patchwork of themes, a story of
multiple stories.

Rimsky-Korsakov pivots on one or
two notes common to two chords, add-
ing to the sound of delight which runs
through his Scheherazade.

Scheherazade was not the
composer’s only oriental composi-
tion——Sadko and Le Coq d’0r also
reﬂect the Eastern bent of the Russian
composer.

One of Rimsky-Korsakov’s more
popular compositions, Scheherazade
reflects all the aspects of a mystical
carpet ride, from the harsh opening
theme associated with the harsh Sultan
Schariar, to the joyous trumpet fanfare
in the “Tsar Sultan” section.

  
 
 

3* FIN TALIAN CUISINE

ancy Dress Specials

Scampi - $11.95

Chicken Marsala - $9.25
Both Served withspaghetti, Salad & Bread

NEW!

2 Group Take-out Dinners - You can serve
your own dinner, complete with Salad,
Garlic Bread & Dessert. You can feed a

group of your friends for as low as $5.00 a
person. Call us at least 24 hours in ad-
vance, and see what we can do for you.

. A /ﬁghrimp & Scallop
gt;

Alain - lﬁmtniia

102 W. Washington

Tuxedos for Sale and Rental
Fancy Cummerbund Sets
Flasks
Ray-Bans
Redwing Boots
W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars & Leashes

Since 1963
Student Charge Accounts Available
463-5383

 
 
    

 

O

 

  
 

 
  
  

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor

ln 1907, W&L Librarian Annie
Joe White and a handful of stu-

o
u
o
u
a
s
0
u
0

Annie Jo White

ot>p<>9io99:—_l

iQ}(:HECkCMﬂ'OUR
EDRESSES,
SHOES & |

ACCESSORIES .
FORIHD I

 
 

 

 

I We Ring-tum Mi, feﬁmary 25. 094 3

dents took 44 dollars left over from

’ theatre production proceeds and

created Fancy Dress. The admis-
sion was free and the costumes for
the Bal Masque were about $2.00.
An orchestra from VMI, known
for their knowledge of all the latest
two-steps, provided the music.
Originally,
White’sattempt
at an annual
“Bal Masque”
was greeted
with indiffer-
ence by W &L
students. Soon,
however, their
a t t i t u d e
changed.
White, per-
haps subcon-
sciously true to
the Fancy Dress
spirit, had a run-
in with the law
during Prohibi-
tion when she
purchased
bottles of rum
and Scotch
through the
mail. Univer-
sity President
Henry L. Smith
intervened to
prevent a grand
jury indictment.
The 1908
Calyx said of
White, “Admi-
ration of her is
stamped for-

ever on our minds; love for her is
seated deep in our hearts; respect
for her is impressed indelibly on
our souls.”

In the 1930s White was fea-
tured in Life magazine for her ac-
complishments.

W & L students were fond of
the energetic White, known as
“Miss Annie Jo.” One crew boat in
the 1890s was named Annie Jo.

White attended every FD ex-
cept one until she died.

White has been immortalized
in Leyburn Library’s computer-
ized catalog. Thus, the name
“Annie” has been attached to the
library’s catalog.

The name “Annie” was chosen
because it was “short, easy to pro-
nounce and spell, and one that had
significant Washington and Lee
connections,” said University Li-
brarian Barbara Brown.

“More importantly, it is appro-
priate that we honor a woman who
was such a friend to students,”
Brown added.

White, who retired in 1928 and
died in 1938, was appointed uni-
versity librarian in 1895.

White contributed time and en-
ergy to the library collection, cata-
loging it, increasing library hours,
and supervisingaoollection move.

Annie Jo White lives on not
only in the library’s computerized
catalog, but in the Fancy Dress
Balls that have become a part of
W&L tradition.

I 992 research on White con-
tributed to this story.

PADPAGAHO
23 N. l\/IAIN

Annie Jo White Created
FD With 44 Dollars

Calyx Photo

In 1927 the theme of a Carnival at Venicefeatured a
wide variety colorfu.l costumes, including those pic-
tured here. The decorations were designed by Carl E.
Gill, an associate professor of Economics and Business
Administration in the Commerce School. The ball in
1927 was the fifth Ball that Gill designed and directed.
The Arabian Nights Ball of 1929 was also designed by
Gill, and although other schools tired to hire him, he

refused their offers.

(96 t‘§i6;‘ $1.15:

' with this ad

Shoe Fixer

Party Shoes Cleaned -
Before and After
Satin Shoes dyed inf] hour

 

S

3 W. Nelson St. 464-6666 - S

  

‘Ste eiawof
PP .
I like to dream

yes yes

Right between the sound machine

On a cloudless sky

Adrift in the night

Anyplace it goes is ﬁne

Goes far, flies near
Get these stars away from here

Well you don’t know what we can ﬁnd
Why don’t you come with me little girl
On a magic carpet ride

You don’t" know what we can see

Why don’t you tell your dreams to me

 

\
\

P 'Ste}oeﬁwo[fe”s own Magic C'et.7i’i

I like to dream

yes yes

Right between the sound machine
On a cloudless sky

Adrift in the night

Anyplace it goes is ﬁne

Goes far, ﬂies near

Get these stars away from here

Well you don’t know what we can ﬁnd
Why don’t you come with me little girl
On a magic carpet ride

You don’t‘ know what we can see

Why don’t you tell your dreams to me

Fanstasy will set you free
Close your eyes girl

Look inside girl

Let the sound take you away

Last night I hold Aladdin’s Lamp
So I wished that I could stay
Before the thing could answer me

Well someone came and took the lamp

away
l looked around
A lousy can was all I found

Well you don’t know what we can ﬁnd

\ seszmzszseszmzmemz O

 

Why don’t you come with me little girl
On a magic carpet ride

You don’t know what we can see

Why don’t you tell your dreams to me
Fantasy will set you free

Close your eyes girl

Look inside girl

Let the sound take you away

Well you don’t know what we can find
Why don’t you come with me little girl
On a magic carpet ride

You don’t know what we can ﬁnd
Why don’t you tell your dreams to me
Fantasy will set you free

/\\\ y?

T’

‘o

 
 

{Hie Jung-tum J°ﬁi.J’e6ruury 25. 1994 -.

A look back at the spectrum of past

. - 2;.-‘i’: :2

Fr
Washington & Lee Friends:

[Fancy Dress
is approacﬁing!

20% discount on the guest
room of your choice

Znjoy a romantic evening of

fine «fining at Maple 9{a[[. I  

1789 Alexander Withrow House Lodging 463-2044 '
1809 McCampbell Inn Dining 463'-4666

 

@850 Maple Hall

AAA**

  
   
   
   
     
    

From 1907 to 1994, with the
exception of a couple of years,
Washington and Lee students have
taken carpet rides through all kinds
of Fancy Dress Balls.

The following is a listing of all
of the previous Fancy Dress Ball
themes.

Between 1907 and 1915, guests
wore costumes from Colonial
America.

1907 Bal Masque

1908 Fancy Dress

1909 Fancy Dress

1910 Bal Masque with decor
ations featuring college
and fraternity pennants.

1911 Bal Masque with deco
rations featuring hanging
Japanese parasols.

1912 Colonial America

1913 Bal Masque

1914 Bal Masque with deco-
rations featuring world
ﬂags and Japanese
parasols.

1915 Colonial America

1916 Court of Louis XIV

191 7 Ba] Masque

1918 Europe and Columbia,

. the Gem of the Ocean

1919 A Midsummer Night’s
Dream

1920 Bookland
The ball was moved to
April because of an in
ﬂuenza epidemic.

1921 The Chinese Court of
Chu Chin Chow

1922 The Scottish Highlands

1923 Le Bal des Operas

1924 My Lady of the Fan

1925 Romance of the Dance

1926 Ba] Beaux Arts

1927 Carnival of Venice

1928 Bookland

1929 1001 Nights

1930 Spanish Fiesta

1931 Robin Hood

1932 Colonial Ball

1933 Ball of the Grandees

1934 Coronation of Emperor
Alexander III

1935 Congress of Vienna

calyx photo 1936 Queen Elizabeth and

Earl of Essex

1937 Italian Renaissance

CID’s

Saturday 11 a.

 

1938
1939

1940
1941

1942
1943

Charleston, SC — On
the Eve of Secession
Knights of the Golden
Horseshoe

Kentucky Derby

King Rex and His Court
at Mardi Gras

A Night at the Monte
Carlo Casino in 1861
American Spirit

1944-1946 Fancy Dress suspended

1947
1948

1949
1950
1951
1952
1953

1954

due to WWII

Carnival at Rio
Hampton Court under
Charles II

George Washington’s
Birthday Ball in Phila-
delphia

King Arthur’s Court
Carmen

The Works of
Shakespeare

The Court of King Louis
XVI

King Rex and His Court

The

 
    

 I Calyx Photo
1935 theme was the

Congress of Vienna.

NIGHT OWL MUSIC CO.

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050

0pen ll a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday — Friday,
9 " 5

7" /7./.V.£/.€/‘.A‘/I//7.4‘/.£//7‘.A‘/‘/.7‘/Zﬂ//.7/7‘/7.A‘/‘/7./.7‘.K‘/‘./:/‘./.7‘./.7‘./..7‘./.7‘./.7.7/

 
 

..‘/.‘/.‘/‘./.7‘./."/‘/7%/./7‘./7%/77£//7£/X/Z/‘/7%//7/7%/‘./7.K/‘/XX//7/VJVA,
.

We stock Jerry
Jeff Walker and
Marshall Tucker

 

x
\
3
x
§
§
§
§
§
\
§
§
§
§
\
§
3
I

 

 
     
  
 

‘J ne mg-tum ‘n. J’-'e6ruary 25. I994 -
‘ ?' U‘ 3" - — ~ ~ ‘Q :1 Q
at Mardi Gras 1969 lnaugural,Ball bee — An Evening
1955 An Odyssey Through Along the Mississippi
Empires From 1970 until 1973 there River
1956 The Wizard of Oz were only concerts. 1984 Lost Cities of Gold
1957 Mozart’s Don Giovanni 1970 The Allman Brothers 1985 The Mink Dynasty
1958 Gilbert and Sullivan at 1971 No Fancy Dress 1986 Carnival —— A Night in
Buckingham Palace 1972 Sha-Na-Na Rio
1959 Golden Jubilee (50th 1973 Billy Preston 1987 The Dark Continent
Anniversary 1974 Mardi Gras 1988 Reconciliation Ball of
1960 The Evolution of Man 1975 ln the Mood 1941 1865
1961 Shakespeare in the Court 1976 Hurray for Hollywood! 1989 An Evening Excursion
of King James I 1977 Passport to Paris on the Orient Express
1962 High Society 1978 Glories of Egypt 1990 Gatsby’s Great Gala
1963 American Civil War 1979 A Taste of the Big Apple 1991 A Royal Festival at King ;
Centennial 1980 Monopoly: A Stroll Arthur’s Court ;
1964 Mardi Gras Around the Board 1992 A Return Voyage to the
1965 Mississippi Riverboat 1981 On Broadway Age of Exploration
1966 Derby Day Ball 1982 A Diamond Jubilee(75th 1993 Celebrating the Silver
1967 Opening Night Anniversary) Screen

1968 High Society 1983 Waiting for Robert E. 1994 A Magical Carpet Ride

   
     
  

Calyx Photo A ' Photo

In 1956, the theme was the Wizard of Oz. This theme reappered in last year’s FD. Henry Heymann was president of FD’s 1956 trip to Oz

WHEN YOU RIDE DRUNK, ONE MORE
FOR THE ROAD CAN HAVE
AN ENTIHELY DIFFERENT MEANING.

KeI|y’s Corner

On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington

 

All Of Your Fancy Dress
and Party Supplies

SHEAR '1'[M1N(; ""9 At The Best Prices.

Hair Salon

Alcohol quickly affects vourjutlgrnent b l d ‘ ' -
are impaired. riding l>ecomes more thaii gllifiiecual? lrCg(e)=lc(i>lrIi1aeUso(rl1awh€n u‘]eIS)e faculties
and ride. Or your last drink might be vour last drink MOTORGY?:%Er§A]1?ETY(i‘ri)ilNil1A]ii0N

    

°f'f,‘};.§‘.ff3.§‘,}i:“'}‘;‘,f,;e§a.§‘ri§i'.i-f,;°’,; (i£.'iic'i.g As Always, We Provide The
 a twist, ﬁshbone, etc) I . Best Service For The W&L Community
é  FD Tanning Special =
~ “ .- 10 for $30
20 f0r$50 Open7Days 463-5452 Mnes&sandyNye,Propnetoas

1 7 S. Randolph Street, Lexington 464-1145

 

125 W. NELSON STREET - LEXINGTON - ACROSS FROMTHE POST OFHCE

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
I I
I Small Acoustic Acts for I
I I
: \ the pre & post Fancy :
- - - I I
RESUMES COVER LETTERS QUICK COPIES FLYERS I  \\ ‘Ti DICSS functions I
LAZER PRINTED ENVELOPES - BINDING - NEWSLETTERS :  :
— Come See Us — We ll Make You Look Good! E 205 N. Main St. E
L PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX: (703) 463 - 6918 Q1 : 463_5455 :
I I
I

   

 

 
 

‘J'ﬁe3ing-tum ?ﬁi, fag-wry 25. I ..

Bo Thorpe Swings thru FD again

Performing everything from Gershwin to “Disco Duck Revisited,” Bo Thorpe and his orchestra
will set students’ feet moving at Washington and Lee’s 87th Fancy Dress Ball.

Students may remember his Big Band sound from last year’s Fancy Dress.

Thorpe formed his orchestra in 1978 and has released three successful albums. Born in Rocky
Mount, North Carolina, Bo Thorpe has moved around the country. He has been an investigative
reporter, soldier, and communications consultant to the United States government. Thorpe also
ran for the U.S. Congress but eventually found his calling in music.

Thorpe’s music is an eclectic blend of new and old, adding to his appeal to college campuses.
Thorpe and his orchestra have played at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the United
States Military Academy and the last four Presidential Inaugural Balls.

The Waller Fomilq

pnovicles Tempcilions.

SOLll ClilCl much FTIOPQ

 
     
 

By MELISSA SAWYER
Assistant Features Editor

Nowhere on earth has there ever been an
arabian garden filled with as much soul and
funk as the Fancy Dress Committee has
planned for Doremus Gymanesium.

The Fabulous Waller Family will return
to W&L March 4 for a FD performance.

The Waller Family’s exciting live show
will be highlighted by live brass instrumen-
tation and multiple costume changes, along
with the tight choreography customary to
their performances.

The Fabulous Waller Family is a quintet
from Richmond. The brother and sister
group performs songs from a wide range of
musical classiﬁcations, including “Top 40,”
“Soul,” and “Funk.” They will perform
selections from Earth, Wind & Fire, Gladys
Knight, Michael Jackson, Whitney Hous-
ton, Luther Vandross, Prince, Terence Trent
D’Arby, Stevie Wonder, and The Time.

The Waller Family also does an extended
medley of Motown impressions which in-
cludes the music of The Pointer Sisters, the
Temptations, Kool and the Gang, Sam and
Dave, Diana Ross and the Supremes, Huey
Lewis and the Four Tops.

The Waller Family has proclaimed itself
the “hardest working group in show busi-
ness.” The band has performed in at least 45
states, as well as in Santo Domingo and

«I» See WA££EJU"o\1Kl£9yqe I8

FD is too
special to be
taken lightly.

............_.........._-._....y......_...‘

Ask that special
person with style.

Send an English
Country Garden
in a vase
whatever it takes
to show

him / her that you
mean it.

The

 

;IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

’III‘IIII“IlIIlIIIIII|‘|IIII“‘III‘I‘III|‘IIIIIIIIIII‘

Fancy Dress is a memorable
event, so dine at a
memorable restaurant!

The Willson-Walker House
30 N. Main Street
463-3020

Reservations now being accepted for
Lunch and Dinner! Make your reservations
early and avoid the last minute rush!

WILLSON-
WALKER
HOUSE

Restaurant

 
 
 
 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

0 75¢ Ring-Rm J’-‘ﬁi.J’e6ruargC5. I994 0

 

 

Marshall Tucker rocks like Skynyrd

The carpet ride hicks-oﬁ‘ with more than 20 years southern rock

   

By BUNNY WONG 
Assistant Supplement

    

Fancy Dresst will open with a
vengeance with the Marshall
Tucker Band, March 3.

The Marshall Tucker Band first
broke through with its Southern
Rock sound in the early 1970s. In
1973 the band released its first
album, the Marshall TuckerBand,
netting gold sales status.

In 1975 and 1977 the band
reached an all-time high when
Searchin’ For A Rainbow and
Carolina Dreams reached plati-
num sales status.

The Marshall Tucker Band’s
latest album on Cabin Fever Mu-
sic, Walk Outside the Lines, is a
continuation of the original

Marshall Tucker Band sound. The
album was recorded in Nashville,
and Garth Brooks wrote the title
cut and first single release from
the new album.

The Marshall Tucker Band has
been compared to its Dixie coun-
terparts, The Allman Brothers and
Lynyrd Skynyrd.

Singer and songwriter Doug
Gray, along with Jerry Eubanks
and Tommy and Toy Caldwell
founded Marshall Tucker in 1971.
The name Marshall Tucker was
borrowed from a Spartanburg pi-
ano tuner.

After landing a record deal with
Capricorn, The Allman Brothers’
label, the band was soon opening
for the Allmans by 1973.

Marshall Tucker is noted for its
twist on country music. A delight-
ful mix of rock and roll, country,

1. Se¢‘.l'\lCJ(ERyage18

 

TG

.IUJTIL.lET

Lexington 17 South Main St.
Famous Men’s & Women’s Apparel and Shoes from
America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order Companies. New
Shipments Every Week. Guaranteed.

With a student ID take an
additional 20% off of any Swim
suit, Shorts (Mens’ & Womens’),

& Boxers.

Good through 3-5-94.
Hours: Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 463-9730

The Marshall Tucker Band will open for Jerry Jeff Walker on Thursday at the
Pavillion. The band has released 16 albums since they first appeared as a pioneering
band of the southern rock music style. Several other groups from the same period,
including The Allman Brothers and Lynyrd Skynyrd, have reuinted for reunion
albums and tours, but the Marshall Tucker Band never left the scene for long. Now,
23 years after they were formed, they will bring a bit of southern rock to FD.

. v A‘ "."‘"‘a- -.
__,.,,.,...3c§-'.3<.§-.. 4,, ‘‘ £6;

 

is proud to have supplied

T-Shirts and posters for T
the past 4 years. We wish
everyone a safe and happy

. Magical Carpet Ride

 

' //Fegwj ' ‘

L335?

‘Iﬁe Ring-tom rat, reemrg 25, 1994

Table for Two. pleose: Q guide

     
     
 

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor

Time to begin thinking about restaurant
reservations!

In the southwest region of Virginia there
are many eateries that can more than ad-
equately cater to your Fancy Dress dining
needs. Tucked away in Charlottesville,
Staunton, Lexington, Lynchburg and
Roanoke are some great dining establish-
ments.

These restaurants are ideal for both din-
ner before the Ball on Friday, and on Satur-
day when it is more convienent to spend
about at least anhour driving.

This article was adapted from a similar
piece written several years ago describing
favorite restaurants of Fancy Dress dining

parties and it seems some of the oldies are
still goodies. Bon Appetit!

Charlottesville

The Boar ’s Head Inn, Route 250 W., 1.5
miles off Route 29, 804-296-2181. Located
in a posh region of Albemarle County, the
Boar’s Head Inn serves as both a 174 room
inn and a restaurant. Though the menu lacks
international ﬂare they do serve duck. The
glory of the Boar’s Inn is a solid American
cuisine prepared impeccably. Prices of en-
trees range from $15.95 to $26.95. A full
bar with a good selection of wines will
accompany a meal nicely. Reservations
and jackets for men are required.

The Ivy Inn, 2244 Old Ivy Road (across
from Ivy Gardens, one mile from Univer-
sity of Virginia), 804-977-1222.

Dine by candlelight in this restored large
house, built circa 1803. During the winter
ﬁreplaces are alight at the Ivy Inn. The
menu at the Ivy Inn varies greatly, including
chicken, beef and seafood pasta. Prices

 

range from $12.75 to $17.95. Weekday
entrees start at $9.95 The romantic atmo-
sphere requires elegant casual dress. All
spirits are served.

The C & 0 Restaurant, 515 E. Water,
804-971-7044.

This may be one of Charlottesville’s and
southwest Virginia’s, most enjoyable and
unique restaurants. At the C & O Restau-
rant, the emphasis of the dining experience
is on the food (“the focus of the senses”) and
as such the formal dining room (coat and tie
suggested) is decorated all white: white
linens, and white walls with white ﬂoors.
The French cuisine is served a la cane but
unlike European restaurants the portions
are large. Don’t pass up the opportunity to
enjoy your meal with a bottle of wine from
the C & O’s extensive wine cellar which has
been voted one of the top 100 in the nation
by Wine Spectator magazine. Entree prices
range from $18.25 to $28. There are two
seatings for dinner, the first at 6:30 and the
second at 9:30 p.m.

Roanoke

The Library, 3117 Franklin Road (in
Piccadilly Square), 985-0811.

The Library is a beautiful, quaint French
restaurant that offers continental cuisine
and an excellent atmosphere. The Library
was one of three restaurants in Virginia
given a four-diamond rating by A. The
service is perfect as is the extensive menu

A traditional gathering place for Fancy Dress
Weekend. Dinner Specials Friday and Saturday
nights. And for a great ending to an unforgettable
Weekend, join us for Sunday Brunch

starting at 12noon. 101 W. Nelson.

    

complete with seafood, beef, lamb and veal
dishes that will delight the palate of even the
pickiest eaters. If you can stand it, leave
room for the dessert tray which will both
amaze and delight. Entrees will run any-
where from $18.95 to $24.95. The Library
is possibly the finest restaurant in Roanoke
and definitely one of the ﬁnest in the state
according to Virginia: A History and Guide.

La Maison, 5732 Airport Road, 366-
2444.

The elegance of La Maison is evident
even before you enter the front door. Once
a Georgian mansion, the beautiful structure
now contains 15 dining rooms in which
delicious French cuisine is served. French
veal and lamb are generally the order of the
day but American fare of beef and seafood
are also served.

Entrees run generally between $9.95 and
$30 with $14.95 as the average. Coat and tie
suggested. Reservations are suggested.

Lexington

The Wilson-Walker House, 30 N. Main
St., Lexington 463-3020

There are several rooms which add to the
coziness of the Willson-Walker House and
eliminate much of the hustle and bustle of
large one-room restaurants. Cocktails, beer
and wine will complement you meal. The
menu is strong with beef, seafood and
chicken dishes. Entrees are prepared a
variety of different ways, includin South-

  
  

eov. MORE IMFOQMATION (bu

1-900-562-warn?

         

 

A . .-......_-.-2-'1 ~~"*"«>I5
‘ ,«-<w.m'4‘ »-m‘-* N-

   
    

   

 

 

O

 

' 75¢ Ring-tum‘?ﬁl. Feﬁruary 253994

to favorite

‘ {QT ’ °

ern American. The location is a plus and
convenience in choosing the restaurant for
its walking distance from most parts of
town. Prices range from around $10 to $17.

' Reservations are a must during Fancy Dress

and coat and tie are recommended.
Maple Hall, Route 11 and 81, Lexing-
ton, 463-4666
Maple Hall is a beautiful large country
home converted into a restaurant. There are
several small dining rooms decorated in
impeccable colonial taste. Maple Hall does
have a private room reserved for larger
parties. The menu will vary from day to day
but a patron can always count on high qual-
ity service and ﬁne country dining. Entrees
run around $18.95. Reservations are appre-
ciated.
Point of View, Rt. 60 W. just west of
Lexington, 463-7797
Point of View has casual dining in an
elegant setting. Strong menu items include
steak, Bar- B-Q Ribs, and seafood. Entrees
run from $6.75 to $13.95. Point ofView
also has a full bar. _
Hunan Garden, East Nelson Street, Lex-
ington, 463-3330
Students have varying opinions of the
establishment—some think it offers respect-
able Chinese cuisine (particularly taking
into account the fact that it is located in the
heart of the Shenandoah Valley). Hunan
offers a variety of Chinese dishes, and com-
binations, and even gives you a fortune
cookie at the end of your meal. Entrees run
around $8. They also serve mixed drinks
and several spirits. Dress is casual.
Southern Inn, 37 S. Main Lexington,
463-3612
The Southern Inn specializes in steaks,
sea food, chicken, and Greek and Italian
specialties. Entrees run around $11.
[1 Palazzo, 24 N. Main Street, Lexing-

 
 
 

.33

,. ......»»«
 .-.w-«'~*"""‘W W

.....—w-»~"""°

  

ton, 464-5800

IlPalazzooffersﬁneItalian cuisine. Open
seven days a week, the restaurant serves
dishes from pizza pie and calzones to a full
dinner menu of tempting dishes like chicken
parmesan. Wine, beer and mixed beverages
are also served. The restaurant has a charm-
ing atmosphere and its food and service
have received praise from many patrons.
Weekend reservations are appreciated.

Harb’s Bistro, 19 W. Washington St.,
Lexington, 464-1900

This establishment is a European-style
cafe which offers cappuccino and expresso,
as well as homemade bread desserts. .la7z
music is piped into the stylish restaurant to
provide a stimulated and relaxing atmo-
sphere. Harb’s also serves a full dinner
menu that varies nightly.

The Inn at Union Run, Union. Run Rd.
Route 674, 463-9715

The Inn at Union Run features weekly
special entrees such as beef rouladen, paella,
and homemade tortellini. Entrees run from
$11 to $16. Reservations are required.

The Palms, 10] W. Nelson St., Lexing-
ton, 463-7911

Hearty souls can enjoy entrees that in-
clude beef, seafood, poultry, and pasta at
The Palms. Entrees run around $9.25 to
$14.95, and there are Fancy Dress specials.
No reservations are required.

Spanky’s, 110 S. Jefferson St., Lexing-
ton, 463-3338

Specializinginaplethoraofsandwhiches,
Entrees run from $5 to $10. In addition,
Spanky’s has a full bar, and a variety of
appetizers and desserts. Spanky’s is fun
food.

Raven and the Crown, 16 Lee Ave.,
Lexington, 464-8474

The Raven and the Crown offers a re-
laxed atmosphere for FD dining. Dinner

Ly?
F D dinner locations

specials are offered daily, and include a
pasta special fo $6.95 and a chicken or beef
special for $9.95. Entrees range from $7.95
to $12.95. The bar has a wide variety of
beers and mixed drinks. In addition, if you
and your date want breakfast for dinner, you
can get it at the Raven and the Crown.
Reservations are not needed.

Staunton

Buckhorn Inn, 12 miles west of Staunton,
Route 250 W. Churchville, 337-6900

The Buckhorn In is a very casual restau-
rant connected with a 200-year old inn. lt
serves a $12.50 seafood buffet on Friday.
Enjoy beef, wine and a lot to eat between the
hours of 4 and 9p.m. Two of the restaurant’s
biggest specialties are fried oysters and pork
tenderloin. Their peanut butter pie is also
popular. Reservations are not necessary but
you may want to call ahead to be sure.

TheBelle GraeInn,515 W. Frederick St.
(Downtown), 886-5151

The Bell Grae lnn contains two dining
facilities located in the old inn. A free
selection of entrees is offered daily accord-
ing to the chef’s choices. Entrees include
prime rib, chicken, pork, seafood pasta,
duck, and lamb. Prices are $12.95 and up.
A full bar will add an additional price per
drink. Coat and tie are advised and reserva-
tions are suggested.

Lynchburg

Emil ’s, Boonsboro Shopping Center,
Route 501 North, 804-384-3311.

Emil’s is reportedly wonderful. Emil’s
serves lunch and dinner in its two dining
rooms. lts menu is varied and enticing. All
ingredients are fresh. Emil’s dining room
specialties include ﬂaming entrees, Norwe-
gian salmon, and their rack of lamb dinners
carved for two. Liquor, beer and wine are
served. Dinner prices for entrees range
from $5 to $18. There is no strict dress code
and reservations are recommended.

Sachiko ’s International Restaurant, 1 26
Old Grave Mill Road, 804-237-5655

Beef, seafood, veal, lamb and chicken
dishes all prepared in a great variety of
international styles will certainly satisfy a
number of different tastes. Prices range
from $11.95 to $25.95. Excellent service
and a full complement of spirits will help
carry the evening. Sachiko’s is an elegant
restaurant and coat and tie are suggested as
well as reservations.

Hot Springs

The Homestead, US 220, White Sulfur_

Springs, West Virginia, 703-839-5500
The Homestead is a grand ol’ Hotel and
the dining room matches its splendor. Res-
ervations are a must and so is a jacket and
tie. The menu varies each night according
to the Chef’s preferences. There is a full
bar, including a ﬁne selction of after dinner
Ports and Liquers. A full dinner at the
Homestead will be costly, about a $100 per

§Mﬂl2lf'S ¢|fIll2STYlfl2S i
OLD §Mﬁ|il STDEET Will

403-9556

$3 off haircut & style;
Tanning special $35.00, 1 month
unlimited tanning

 

Wishing gou a great Faneg ‘Dress

10% student discount - year round

University Florist - George Tolley ‘72
165 South Main Street
463-6080

  

couple, with drinks. Give yourself about an
hour and a half to get to the Homestead, and
expect a leisurely dinner. But the dining at
Homestead is something every W&L stu-
dent should experience and a good idea for
those who really want to splurge FD week-
end.

White Sulfer Springs

Green Briar Hotel, W. Main St., West
Virginia, 304-536-1110

The Green Briar is another famous grand
ol’ hotel. Like the Homestead jackets and
ties are required, as are reservations. The
dinner menu varies each night according to
the chef’s preference, but each nights menu
is assured to feature a variety of entrees
including lo calorie entrees. Save room for
desert. No matter how much you enjoy your
dinner, dessert will be better. Full dinner,
including tax and gratuity, is $ 67.05 per
person. Wine and cocktails are extra. Driv-
ing to the Green Briar should take about an
hour and diner will be leisurely. Like the
Homestead, the Green Briar might not be a
great Friday night choice, but Saturday is a
good time to take a trip to West Virginia.

 
   
       

I Q T 0

I8

lslamic tradition
unites I001 tales

fl'A.£ES.yag¢ 8

either in Syria or Egypt, was lost after it was copied nearly
a generation later.

The literary style is that ofthe Mamluk period, tinged
with an Ottoman cast. The tales ofthe Arabian nights have
four categories of folk tales-fables, fairy tales, romances,
and comic as well as historical anecdotes.

The nature of the tales has led some copyists to add
tales. One ofthese is the infamous “The Story of Aladdin
and the Magic Lamp.”

It was not among the first 11 basic stories of the
Arabian nights and appeared for the first time in Arabic in
1787.

A mixture of the supernatural and the realistic, 1001
Nights embodies Arabian enchantment:

The king was all curiosity to hear the rest of the story
and said to himself, “By God, I will not have her put to
death until I hear the rest of the story and ﬁnd out what
happened to the merchant and the demon. Then I will have
her put to death the next morning, as I did with the others.

These are the King’s thoughts on the third night. By the
end of the last tale, however:

Tradition has it that in the course of time Sheherazade
bore Shahrayear three children and that, having learned
to trust and love her, he spared her life and kept her as his
queen.

—From Husain Haddawy’s translation of the tales of the
Arabian nights

 

 

3 C Q

9'62 Ring-tum Pﬁl, .‘Fe6ruarg 25. I994

The Waller Family will perfom March 4 in the small gym.

Waller Familg plags the hits

Tucker  
starts FD is‘
Thursday
concert

fl'\lCJCER.yage I5

and jazz give the band its unique
sound.

While the band cannot be cat-
egorized, it is deﬁnitely rooted in
the South. Groups like Alabama,
Travis Tritt and Garth Brooks are
giving credit to Marshall Tucker
for inﬂuencing their music.

After pulling off such hits as
“Fire on the Mountain,” “Heard it
in a Love Song” and “Can’t You
See,” the Tucker band ran into
tragedy. ln 1980, Tommy Caldwell
died in an accident, with his brother

Publicity Photo

WA££E1R.FA.Ml£9.pageI4

Canada. They perform more than 150
one-nighters each year.

The Waller Family’s music is avail-
able from the Dynamic Artist Record
Label on their album “Love Moods.”
The album was awarded Pick Album of
the Week by Billboard Magazine, Cash

Box Magazine, Record World Magazine,
Black Radio Exclusive and Jack the Rap-
per in Orlando, Florida.

The album features the number one
single “Without You Tonight.” The song
features the falsetto of Chris Waller.

The Waller Family is also featured on
a CBS release of “Music from the Bill
Cosby Show.” This collection features
Grover Washington Jr.

Toy leaving the band soon after-
ward.

With the kind of all-American
spirit characteristic of their sound,
the band pulled itself together and
is back with a refreshed southern
rock sound.

Thursday, the Marshall Tucker
Band will start off the magic car-
pet ride with a taste of the south.

FD to supply more than carpets

DECORAtTIONs,page 3

Doremus gym, an Arabian Garden featuring the music of the
Waller family.

“There are going to be arches when you walk in,” said
Wendy Alexander, Doremus gym Sub—Chairwoman. We’ll
be in the garden at midnight, so it’ll be dark,.”

Turn to the left and you’ll be in the big gym, with a market
place, caravan, and treasure chest. On the balcony above the
gym there will be tent with a fake lake in the middle-an oasis
scene. “lt’s going to be a place for people to sit and hang out,
see all the other decorations from up above,” said balcony
sub-chairman Jennifer Queen.

Down below, facing the B0 Thorpe orchestra, will be the

market place. “We’re having large buildings with alley-
ways between them with a few clotheslines strung between

the

m and awnings and curtains on the windows,” said

Jennifer “Goose” Garrigus, corner #2 Sub—Chairwoman.

Approaching the opposite comer on the right of the big

gym, you will step in to a treasure room.

“We’re building a multi-layer structure with a staircase

up the middle that people can walk up,” said Kris F egenbush,
corner #4 Sub-Chairman. “People can walk up 20 feet high,
and we have a throne up there that they can sit on,” said
Fegenbush. “We’ll have fountain pools around the outside.”

be

ln the corner on the left of the B0 Thorpe orchestra will

a caravan.

 

‘Treat your tﬁlte to a rehzrcirtg meal
ﬁefore the 5a[[ at

‘Zﬁe

rwhllnlhﬂt

BE A RED CROSS VOLUNTEER

 

  
  

American
Red Cross

Raven (7 Crown £Pu6

 

ﬁn eating estaﬁlishment
open from morning till night.

— Reservations Recommended -
1 6 Lee ﬂloenue

Lexington, ‘Vﬂl 24450
(703) 464-8474

£ry'oy Mostly Jazz at $1-uncﬁ
Sun. March. 6, 11:00am

 

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Marlene’s Hairstylist
Tannery

Tanning beds- 10 visits/ $40
5 visits/ $20

French Manicures

Let us make your FD Weekend a little more special!
Call or stop by for an appointment

463-6003
Sat. 9-1

0000000000000000O0OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

25 N. Main St.
M-F 9-5,

Acrylic Nails
Full Service Salon

 *2°""\ P~€CYcL€Cl in

    
 

     

 
  

“I?-‘Elie, . ., 
. ‘ BWW3 §:ecYcL€.C_l;

   

9'62 Ring-tug! PHI. Feéruarg 2;). 1994

Finding a
date for the
biggest event
of the year

 
 

By BETH FORMIDONI, ’96
Special to the Phi

I had heard about Fancy Dress from the
moment I arrived at W&L, it was suppos-
edly the biggest social event of the year.

Finally February rolled around and I was
set. I had equipped myself with all the basic
necessities, a dress, shoes, and ﬁve years of
ballroom dancing classes.

There was only one thing lacking, that
mysterious and romantic man that would
escort me to this amazing function.

At first maybe I was a little idealistic in
my date quest.

For quite a few weeks I was certain that
HE was going to ask me, and just about to
reveal the fact that I was his true and only
love and Fancy Dress date.

Unfortunately, I soon discovered that I
was misled.

Through the grapevine I learned that
there was no hope, he had asked someone
from HOLLINS! That proved to be the end
of plan A.

At this point I became desperate, my
confidence was shaken and I had visions of
myself watching television at home, alone,
while everyone was dancing the night away
and having the time of their lives.

I thought about doing a little advertis-
ing. Maybe putting an ad in the Phi: “Fresh-
man girl seeks FD date, will buy tickets.”

If I got really desperate, I was planning
to recruit my thirteen year old brother, dress
him up in a tux, and pass him off as a secret
and mysterious lover from far, far away.

Then I realized this was more pathetic
than staying home and watching TV.

I decided to play it cool. I went out (at
every possible occasion), and subtly spread
the word that l was waiting for the perfect
date.

All those men I had to turn down just
weren’t up to my standards.

Finally a stroke of luck, my friend’s
date’s friend’s friend’s fraternity brother
didn’t have a date! Word quickly spread
throughout the party that there was an avail-
able date in the crowd, and my friend quickly
arranged the match.

Even though I didn’t know him that well
(I had seen him around, and I DID know his
last name) he seemed nice enough.

My first FD turned out to be great, my
date quest had resulted in a nice guy, and it
was a good time.

My only regret was that I never really got
to show off my outstanding ballroom danc-
ing abilities.

This year will be a little less hectic,
seeing as I already have a date.

Unfortunately, l’m sure he’ll insist on
wearing cowboy boots, so l’m still a little
tentative about demonstrating my waltzing
skills with him.

.i s- ' ° '- ‘
Lméitﬁsw ‘M’

ED. PROFILE #12:
THE SET-UP

(See Dean Manning can solve @ one.)

   
 

py{~;,L 1973 Mary Sweet-Macon
College for Womm ‘94.
L453, ,',,me Her grandmother
tux rgxtal. band-sewed it.
(9096 acrylic.
I/2 inc}: 
‘She has a really
50 am, for . nice personality. "
inﬁrmary vmdor.
"just in case. '

\

Two days from \

now, he’ll vow

Doc Martens:
An MS-MCI?’

necessity.

A Fancy Dress message from the president

To The Student Body:

Fancy Dress Weekend is the surest sign of the coming of spring to
Washington and Lee. All of us look forward to it for that reason and for
the infectious good fun it unfailingly brings to the university commu-
nity. This has been so for 86 years and I know it will be so in 1994 as
well.

Many people have worked hard and fruitfully to fit all the pieces of
this gigantic undertaking together. The rest of us enjoy the benefit of
that selﬂess service and I write to express our gratitude. I know it will
be yet another memorable Fancy Dress celebration and we deeply thank
all who have labored on our behalf for making it so.

John D. Wilson

The Ring-tum Phi
Fancy Dress supplement

staff

Supplement Editor ................................... ..Ethan Krupp
Assistant Supplement Editor ................... ..Bunny Wong
Front Cover Art ...................................... ..Megan Miller
Inside Art .................................................. ..Nancy Edge
FD Floor Plan ........................ ..Phil Carrot, Nancy Edge
Cartoon ............................................... ..Allen Flickinger

 
 

 

FANCY DRESS
ONCERT

Thursday, March 3, 1994
8:30 p.m. in the Pavilion

Ticket Sales:
$8 presale; $10 at the door

V (Presale is in the University Center with the FD ticket sales)

 

 

