U112 ‘ﬂing

THE FRESHMAN ISSUE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

me Phot

W&L students participate in tear night before the Inter Ftraternity Council and the university forced the fraterni-
ties to tone down their activities. The entire rush process was rethought last year.

IFC starts relaxed rush

.,

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 4, 1993

Freshman class:

brains and brawn -x

By NANCY PAvLovic
Phi Managing Editor

Today, Saturday, September
4, 1993, it’ll be official. High
school will be over and college
life just begun for the 429 in-
coming members of the Class of
1997.

As they arrive at Washington
and Lee, this year’s freshmen
class brings with them a myriad
of life experiences, perspectives
and expectations that will inﬂu-
ence their time here.

“This is a great class and very
similar to last year’s class as far
as academics go,” said Assistant
Director of Admissions Rob J.
Aliff. “I think it’s fulllof students
who desperately wanted to be
her ”

F‘ a class that includes, 53
former student body or class
presidents, 88 former presidents
of major student organization and
141 varsity team captains, the

Class of 1997 nevertheless found
time to excel academically. Rep-
resenting 346 different second-
ary schools, there are 29 National
Merit Finalists and 33 Valedicto-
rians and salutatorians among
them. The Class of 1997 has 327
Advanced Placement classes un-
der their belt.

“We were looking for the ul-
timate well— rounded student
who was capable of. doing well

academically and wasn’t afraid
of being involved,” said Aliff
trying to characterize the selec-

_ tion process used by Admissions

Like the class before them,
they maintain the Board of Trust-
ees’ mandated 60 to 40-male/
female ratio to a tee, with 258
men and 171 women. Neverthe-
less, they are the select few cho-
sen from an application pool of
3,318 and represent the best 42
states and seven countries could
offer. Virginians once again are
the best represented with 56.
Pennsylvania, Texas, Maryland
and New York round out the top
five states freshmen will be ar-
riving from today.

Admissions is eagerly antici-
pating the arrival of the Class of

1997 and the beginning of their
four—— day long Freshmen Ori-
entation Program.

“We’re really looking forward
to them [the Class of 1997] get-
tinghere on Saturday,”Aliffsaid.

with open contact for men

L
By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi Staff Writer

Relaxed Rush?
Strange, but true.

In the past, freshman men were under
closed Contact Rush rules when they arrived
on campus. That meant that freshman men
could not talk to upperclass fraternity mem-
bers until almost one week after their arrival.
This year, freshman men have two weeks of
open and casual Contact before Rush activi-
t'es officially begin on the second Monday
0 classes. ' I

“This gives freshmen more time to see
the school without Rush”, said Integfrater- _
nity CouncilPreside'ii'§ZCurt Smith. ‘fit takes
some of the pressure off freshmen.”

Other‘Rush changes include more open
léouses and heavier penalties for Rush viola-

tions.

“There will be 16 open houses instead of
nine,” said Smith. “This gives each fraternity
a fair opportunity (during open house). In the
past 6 or 7 houses were left out.”

“Rush penalties are stiffer because you
have to go out of your way to screw up under
the new Rush schedule.”

Smith also offers some advice for fresh-
men who are considering Rush.

“Basically you get to see what W&L
social life is like. You get the opportunity to
meet alot of people- shaking 600 hands in the
course of two weeks is a good introduction to
the school.

“Be open minded- make sure you check
out every option. Take yourtime when you’re
going through the process. Try not to ‘feel
pressured.”

The schedule for Rush events will be:

Sept. 4: Freshmen arrive

Sept. 5-7: Closed contact during orienta-
tion events; casual contact after freshman
orientation.

Sept. 8-17: Open contact 5-8 p.m.

Sept. 18: Open contact 1-5 p.m.

Sept. 19: IFC Assembly 1-3 p.m., after 3
p.m. closed contact

Sept. 20-23: Open houses 6:30- 9:05 p.m.

Sept. 24: Preference Cards due from fresh-
men and fraternities by 1 p.m. Informal drop-
ins at house 1-5 p.m. After 5 p.m. - closed
contact

Sept. 25: Open contact 1-5 p.m.- After 5,
closed contact— freshmen can’t go out

, Sept. 26: Revised cards due by 12 p.m.

Rush dates 1-2 :12:30p.m.- 3:30 p.m.

W Sept. 27: _RushAdat_es_‘3-4: 6-9 pm.
"_'Sept.'28:’Casual"5ontact on Hill

Sept. 29: Rush dates 5-6: 6-9 p.m.

Sept. 30: Rush dates 7-8: 6-9 p.m.

Oct. 1: Tear Night

New

The EC readies for the year

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

The Executive Committee,
‘W&L’s student government,
must complete two tasks before
students can get down to busi-
ness as usual: introducing the
dass of 1997 to the Honor Sys-
tem and or-
ganizingthe

said the Honor System Orienta-
tion will not change this year.

Tompkins said he expects all -

freshmen men to be wearing a
coat and tie and the women should
also dress appropriately for the
orientation Tuesday night in Lee
Chapel.

Tompkins will give a speech
at the orienta-
tion, which all

budget.
The EC
is made up
of 13 stu-
d nts repre-
sentingeach
of . the un-
dergraduate
and law
classes.

upperclass
and law rep-
resentatives
are elected
each spring.

F r e s h m a 11
must attend,
and then the
freshman will
be divided into
groups. The
groups will be
takenby an EC
member to
watch a video
about the
honor system
and discuss it
in more detail.

Tompkins
said he hopes

F r e s h m e n

will elect

their repre-

s9ntative this fall.
EC President Bob Tompkins

Tompkins

the freshman
will realize
what an inte-

gral part of W&L life the Honor
System is.

“I hope they’ll have afnn filled
four years, but if there’s an-
evening to be serious that’s it,”
Tompkins said.

The EC is also responsible for
an Honor System orientation for
new faculty members. Last year
each new faculty member re-
ceived a letter about the Honor
System during the summer. Af-
ter the orientation each incoming
faculty member received a visit
from an EC member.

The EC’s next piece of busi-
ness will be organizing the bud-
get. Last year the EC allocated
$235,425 to student organiza-
tions.

The EC will not fund organi-
zations which are politically or
ideologically partisan After the
budget allocations several stu-
dents came to the EC requesting
the policy be changed to allow
the EC to fund all campus orga-
nizations. Tompkins said he
thinks the EC’s policy is the best
one he has heard, but he is will-
ing to hear any suggestions.

Tompkins said he hesitates to
codify the budget process any
more than it already is. But,

Tompkins said he hopes the bud-;
get process will not deter new
clubs from starting.

“I wouldn’t mind seeing some
new [clubs] come in this year,”
he said.

All student organizations,
such as sports clubs, service or-
ganizations and specialty clubs,
who want funding will submit
requests to the EC and have a
chance to justify their requests.
After hearing all the request the
EC will decide how much money
to allot each group.

The EC will also begin the
process of setting up the White
Book revisions committee,
Tompkins said.

The revisions committee will
review the White Book, the writ-
ten explanation of the Honor Sys-
tem, during the entire year. The
revisions committee will then
suggest possible changes to the
White Book.

The EC will request applica-
tions for the committee positions
in about two weeks, Tompkins
said. He said he hopes to have
the committee members in place
in about a month.

Two boys stroll across the footbridge the week before most students arrive in Lexington.

Photo By Sarah Gilbert, of The Ring-tum Phi

    
crass es, test

A sign painted by FOC member Sue Krawchuck greets the Freshmen.

FOC prepares freshmen
for life at a university

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The 429-member class of 1997 begins its orien-
tation week today with activities planned by the
Freshmen Orientation Committee.

The FOC is a group of over sixty students who
each year plan most of the en-
tire orientation week and pro-
duce the Freshmen Record.

This year’s schedule of
events includes several new
programs, including an op-
tional Community Service Ac-
tivity seminar sponsored by
Project Safe and Sound and
Alpha Phi Omega, a service
fraternity.

“With this new addition we
want the freshmen to realize
that they are part of a larger
community than our ivory
tower here and to realize what
that means,” said Dennis G.
Manning, Dean of Freshmen
and Residence Life.

Freshmen may choose be-
tween the community service
seminar and trips to the Chessie
Trail Walk and a hike to the Saddle of House
Mountain sponsored by the Outing Club.

“We have provided activities which we think
freshmen will want to attend,” said Carlin Jones,
FOC co-chair. “I would like to see every freshmen
at every event.”

The remainder of the orientation week follows
the same format as previous years. _

Activities begin with the Playfair presentation
tonight at 8 p.m. at the Student Pavilion. An official
class meeting and welcome by President John D.
Wilson will be held in Lee Chapel on Sunday at 1
p.m.

Placement tests in foreign languages and En-
glish are scheduled for Sunday afternoon starting
at 2 p.m., followed by FOC small group meetings
at 5 p.m. and the annual Alumni Association
Barbeque at the Liberty Hall ruins at 6 p.m. New
this year is an 80’s theme party that will take place
in the General Headquarters at 9 p.m.-

On Monday the‘ mathematics placement test

Manning

will be administered in Evans Dining Hall at 8:30
a.m., to be followed by the CIRP Freshmen Survey,

/ and then another class meeting in Lee Chapel at

10:30 a.m. for a speech on the history and traditions
of W&L by Professor Taylor Sanders. Freshmen
will return to Lee Chapel at 2 p.m. for a speech on
academic life at W&L by Dean of the College John
Elrod, to be followed by an introduction to the
Commerce School by
Dean Larry Peppers.

On Monday evening
freshmen will eat dinner
with their faculty advis-
ers and there will be a
class party in the Baker-
Davis-Gilliam Quad be-
ginning at 9 p.m.

On Tuesday freshmen
will register with the fac-
ulty advisers for their fall
classes, and in the after-
noon have the opportu-
nity to participate in the
community service semi-
nar or the Outing Club
activities.

All freshmen receiv-
ing financial aid will meet
in Northen Auditorium in
the Leyburn Library at 4
. p.m. Freshmen will have
dinner that evening with their big siblings on the
front lawn. The Honor System orientation will be
Tuesday night in Lee Chapel. All freshmen must
attend the orientation.

On Wednesday Freshmen lwill matriculate in-
Payne Hall, take their swimming proficiency test
and receive the library orientation in the order of
their last names all starting at 9 a.m. The student
activities fair will be held simultaneously on the
front lawn from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. That
evening the small groups will meet again to discuss
responsible behavior.

Classes for all students begin on Thursday and
are abbreviated to accommodate Opening Convo-
cation. Physical Education registration will also be
held this day.

On Sunday, September 12, a fraternity system
orientation will be held in Lee Chapel for men at 1
p.m. A sorority system orientation will be held in
Northen Auditorium for women.

  

PAGE 2

Tillie ilting-tum   lﬂlii

, 9
The Ring-tum Phi, September 4, 1993

,-

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

To the Freshmen

After what probably seemed. the summer that would
never end, and at other times the summer that was ﬂying by,
you’re finally here.

You’ve already received tons of mail from Washington
and Lee, students and administrators alike. Some of it you
threw away and some of it you actually read. Before you
even got here you had a dinner date with your advisor
arranged for you.

A group of students calling themselves the freshman
orientation committee have planned an entire week for you
and published a Freshman Record, all to help you get to
know one another. That same committee has helped you
move in and they set you up with your small group leaders
and Big Brothers or Sisters. '

Administrators, faculty, staff and students have tried to
perfect every detail to make sure your first weeks at W&L
are as smooth as possible. Why? Well, you’ve been told it’s
because we are glad you’re here. If you’re the cynical type
you might not believe that, but it really is true.

We’re glad you’re here because you deserve to be here.
You’re intelligent, but you don’t just sit home and study.
Each and every freshman brings unique experiences and
talents to W&L. Some ofyou are athletic, others like student
government, some of you can sing, some can write and some
of you will probably discover what you love to do most in
the next four years.

You came to one of the best liberal arts universities in the
country because you wanted to be challenged. And, let’s
face it, you came because you heard the social life was good
here.

You’ll definitely be getting a good education and have
fun if you go to class and go to parties, but you’ll be missing
out too. Along with great courses and great parties, W&L
offers hundreds of extra—curricular activities. There’s some-
thing out there for everyone. But, YOU have to get in-
volved.

Each freshman breathes fresh air into this 246 year old
university. Each one of you hassomething to offer this
university and in return it will give you four years of
memories and experiences you will never forget, on top of
an education that many will envy.

All you have to do to get the most out of W&L is be
yourself. Be the student that stood apart from the others and
was considered special enough to attend W&L. Get in-
volved in whatever interests you. And have fun. These
really will be the best four years of your lives.

To the parents

You’re probably reading this to keep your mind off the
fact that you’re going to be leaving your child soon. Even,
if you’ve done this before it’s not easy, at least that’s what
our parents told us. You’re a little nervous and a little

WELL IWAS .
WHEN I F7R5T ’
Got‘ in LIME.

‘Flt,

Injury Leads to Intellectual Growth

0

My View
Dennis G. Manning
Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life

Nothing in my almost two score year’s experience
matches the sheer exhilaration I used to feel coming
home from school, bounding off the bus and drop-
ping a pile of books like a depth-charge in our family
room. How quickly, too, I could effect a metamor-
phosis from schoolboy to feral child by peeling off
school clothes and wriggling into tattered cut-offs
and a T-shirt for play.

School, I thought, diminished the freeness of each
day. Mysteriously spun and evanescent as cotton
candy, playtime was to be enjoyed only in quick,
little gossamer nibbles.

I do remember playing outside one late afternoon
after school was over. There was more than just an
intimation of autumn as the leaves surrendered to
surreal hues, colors I saw only in pictures of Mars in
my grade school science text. Greg was our neigh-
borhood bully (his corpulence his most endearing
quality), a fellow who had the dangerous habit of
trying to sit on his friends. Piecing together shards of
memory, I recall circling under a superball that had
been bounced much higher than the roof of our house,
some thirty feet into the air, thinking I might catch it

and abscond with it. Just as I gathered the ball into
my hands, Greg, with all his weight, buckled my left
arm under both our bodies.

Astonishingly, I don’t remember the doctor set-
ting the bones in my arm - my mind won’t let me

I remember the same feeling of discovery when I ﬁrst
read Keats’ “On First Looking into Chapman’s
Homer.” Could reading poetry - even an Elizabethan
translation in this case - be this magical, could it be
as powerfully exciting and original as discovering an

revisit that pain - but I do ocean (so what if I
reniemberthemodem day really was Balboa
G‘°“°’ 'a”‘°"“g °" ""“‘° Piecing together shards of and “°‘ C°"°Z’) °‘

strips of plaster to create
the shell that would en-
case my arm for some
months. During those
months, I discovered phi-
lately and reading, serene
pursuits of the mind.
Stamps withbi-planes and
reading, figures from ex-
otic-sounding places like
Madagascar. Treasure 15-
land and Tom Sawyer sud-
denly came to life. A sci-

ence book, All About the ies.

memory, I recall circling under a
superball that had been bounced
much higher than the roof our
house, some thirty feet into the
air, thinking I might catch it and
abscond with it. Just as I gath-
ered the ball into my hands,
Greg, with all his weight, buckled
my left arm under both our bod-

peering through a
telescope and sud-
denly viewing a
new planet? The
patently simple aiﬁ.
swer is yes. To ini-
tiate and cultivate
a life of the mind,
however, you
needn’t, like me,
break a bone or in-
capacitate your,
self. One of the
paradoxes of your

Human Body, long since
out of print, I am sure,
opened my eyes to the marvels of this mortal shell
we inhabit.I had never before known that the mind
alone — no matter the condition of the body - could
afford such independence and freedom.

Some years later in my freshman year of college,

college years is that

you are naturally

and gloriously incapacitated: removed for the most

part from the vicissitudes of modern life for four
years, free to read, to write, to think, to discover, tn
play, to work, to express yourself. Cherish these

years.

Welcoming Season Starts Today

Dream Land
Richard Weaver

Let me begin my remarks today by

your roommate. I'll simply refer you to
a recent movie: Single White Female :
Living with a roommate can be mur-
der.

Now before I get some angry letters
on cute puppy stationary from people
who really liked theirroommates (there
must be, what, eight or nine of those),

Day One: Turkey Slices wrapped
around stalks“of broccoli. — — I

Day Two: Chopped up turkey and
broccoli combination.

Day Three: Pureed turkey/broccoli
served with dumplings.

Day Four: Green Jell-O.

Now, if you’ve heard enough, and if

0!

OK; what they lack in service they
make up for in eye makeup. We’re
talking Tammy Faye Bakker territory.
Or Uncle Fester from TheAddams F am-
ily.

But that’s not the point here, and th;
point is, I don’t aimlessly wander from
subject to subject. Any subject I dis-

. . . waloomin ou, the class of 1997, to I’ll make it clear now that just because youwant cuss, trust me, re-
excited all at ,the same t1me',There,’S’ not gomg to be “The Welgoilnin season”hei-e in l_,t-,x- ou will be livin with someone in a to know W’? lates back to food in
8 Y 8

Someone Standmg over your chlld t°Hm_g them when to do ington. In the coming days prepare to room the dimensions of a 1978 Honda w h e r e I1 IIl0VlIlg-Ill day some way, and get-
their homework, when to come home at night, orwhat to eat. be heartilyweicomeubyvanousdeans, Civic for the next ‘nine months does g o o ‘d last year, my father and tlng back to when
But, you can go home with that key chain that says My Kid professors, upper-class students, fel- NOT means you Wlll eventually com- food IS I H d . f “ you go to lee-Hr,
Goes to W &L, and be truly proud. lowfrt_=,shmen,Jiinfi-om EastLex,_Vl/&L «mit an act of viollence against lrhits) per- servhed, .Pu4e4  In 0111!’ ll ' you lniusktf alwayfs
We’re not going to kid you, we have no idea what you’re Security and their tow truck.fr,iends, ‘S‘on,.it msans t ere just mig t e an govyl ere slze X e.v1-0 et av; rsph a(s}t,pre 1

. . the Rockbndge County sheriffs De- incident one day, where you Iron t C truck, car In all nfm era y 6 enera
feeling right now..We are students ourselves. But, we do panmem, the Cadaver Society’ and “s1ipS”from ynnrnands and«lnndven_ truckers 1'3’  Y Lee)’ 1 won’t tell
know what W&L lS all about. And we can tell you to stop A1vin-Dennis(“"rhe Belt People”)_ ently” lands on your roommate’s go. _and earthly POSSCSSIOIIS, 35 you what it consists
worrying. If the phone does not ring every night or there I know that last year my reaction “head” nfhile he.’-S Sleeping 3113 “aCC1- “V0113 ’ well as two of my °f(Y°“ have i0 find
isn’t a letter in the mail box once a week, it does not mean was» w_h° “"3 mes“ P°°P1°?_ The“ d°.“‘a"Y W15 “S m°“‘h .Sh“' 5,? 3'?“ y°“ have friends’ thin S all ‘hm °“‘ f°’ .y°“"
th. . T th . .t b bl th. my reaction was,“what’s for dinner?” will no longer hear that bizarre boil- the Lee- g Self), but I Will teﬂ
Solzne lng IS Wrong. . Tu IS, 1 pro a y means lllgs are and then «Can I go to Sleep n0w?:a The ingn «Sounds» that he makes “after”  truck     you thatlgive it five
going great. Your child has a lot of people to meet, and in A whole an]-nsnnent process to strange drinking “a” whole 2-liter bottle of s t o p , the cab and wra ed u stars.(Editor’sNote:
a few weeks your child will have more work than ever. little/Lexington (the “Twin Peaks” of “Dr. Pepper.” . _ w h e r e _ PP P . Richard gives the
SO, be prepared to go a little longer than usual before you Virginia) Will take a while, but that I, of course,_ irresponsibly make W a i t — In an enormous blue Sttop-Inlcpngeniefnce
get that phone call or letter. Your child still loves you, but   Y°“ CS“ ‘ Ste? bta‘il_‘ 3 ;l;°S°rig(:r:‘(f;;‘1(‘f::t‘}‘:;‘: d;:Wl‘;‘g1;‘S’t“;;l;‘: if  51°51 tarp. We were the Lex- :£::a°lS;'S;’[gnSa;g:
there’S S0 Inufih to do here. . scilnedule  I llzsed alone in GrI:;haII)n_.LeeS 260, S e r V g    you had ’bettel' lwt
One last thing. The library is open 24 hours a day here. will soon can nnma vvfhichltheorizle 3/asbuilt as Solrle kind you 24 various fraternity mam. trusthisjudgimcnt.)
We Swear‘ ratrfii ..'.'i'.§’Vr‘§‘.§ii.'§.r‘l.‘},’rlailryiiilslii §o§§.‘;".§¥§,f§cl. r“.§I.‘I.gr.r".i¥‘I.'.1'.'...";°t.’.§“.1 a°2"sy if b‘*”S,Wh° were S*3“°“ed now.?u?i$oir3‘3§§
4x4 Chevrolet truck, carrying all ofniy and without moving my body reach s e v e n outside the d0I'I'l1S t0 commentary in the

~ . earthly possessions, as well as two of any spot in my morn‘. This rgade it days ka help the freshmen move future. Iilldclose by

‘ f‘ d ’th' ll t k ti h‘ incredibly easy to wa e up at p.m., w e e . , saying: a ies an

@112 ‘IKIIIQ-ﬁlm lﬂlit :::l.“.::; :..*:.‘.%:.**..:.*;.°,..°.. 1:: :.%*‘:.:  wen. -nwazkeaaway from  as Y01
enormous blue tai—p_ we were the Lox- ;nlock( tlh)e ldoor dto al:l)’<())wMDomino’s talking our truck, from what I pulil dqwn the covers

~ - ' t l-{'llb‘ll' , Th ' f t - izza “ e ivere in inutes or w a i - an ge in oyournew
Executrve Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas  0nI1|e mlbe {is 5:0 weoevsatnttgiﬁe 52:) 3- RSS by our ﬂeet of RonS_R°yoeS,,) to I 6 S S C S assume, was fear: Does bed tonight, ques_
Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic side the dorms to help the freshmen bring me f00d_ t h 3 t this rlng a be“ with any uoning why in the
News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos move in wazked away from out truck, You say, “Richard, Iwill never buy n e v e r of you? world your parents
Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver 3l<_>m_WhatbI liissutlrlle, Wasf fear‘; Does Zxtfa E0041, espéclallly S1n0Cf°tﬁ  Zfﬁgmgr ;‘l*(‘)‘I’l‘: alt°‘gaS3’h‘:;‘g:“£

. - ‘t _ oing 0 every sing e one e i i .
Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert ‘sI’;'13eS“S tﬁatvgy $3; ‘;o3l’l°§ave an ha“ mealsmat my parents S 01 d my They]-us, and Lee’ have faith
Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs re me and con uered wal_ little sisterto a for-_”Andlsa to ou, watch the procession of truckers, that in ashort time, you’ll be question-
ady co ,seen, q P Y Y Y , _ _
Photography Editor. . . . . V . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow Mart, and Mom has purchased all kinds “Wait ';_l1l"liil (yo: are seéved Turlcey Di- tctivséniets. (erﬁ Leilliligttialn tcitizetnss), and iilg hotw yout evelloorlisidered any other
. . - f ' hl db kc nd van.” is is proviesape ec ex- suenswoc oea. ome- pace ogooscoo.

AS.SlstZ.mt Photogrilphy Editor ' ' ° ' ' ' 't ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' Bethany Snilth iutiltiecfwirg :1: gwingicjtsaiaglsiicah I ample of my theory of the Letitia Pate times the sleep deprivation puts them And to the current resident of Gra-

Edltorlal CaI't00n1St - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Jeb T111)’ assure you will never be used for any- Evans Dining Hall Food Chain, which on edge and they’re not quite as friendly ham-Lees 260, call me here at the Phi

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt thing other than building an nn‘pen_ traces the evolution of dining hall en- as you might expect, like when they sometime and let me know if the ohl

Computer Graphics Artist . . _ ' _ ‘ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _plnl Canon an-able Berlin wall between you and trees; throw your silverware at you. But that s homestead has changed much.

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allen Flickinger . I

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Miriam Neel A Q u I c k R e a d O n  e P h I

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Polaski ‘ O

  Features

Stories of human interest or about
the arts appear in this section. A
story here may be light-hearted or
take a deep look at a serious issue.
This section usually occupies two
facing pages. If the facing pages are
connected they are called a double
truck. The features editor has greater
ﬂexibility than other section editors
in using creative designs and differ-
ent fonts in headlines. The syndi-
cated puzzles, Colonnade Cross-

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

Opinion

This section, the opinion page,
usually occupies pages two and three
but may extend to other pages. In the
left column of page two is the staff
editorial, which is the opinion of the
Editorial Board, unless it is initialed
by only some board members. The
Phi administrative staff is listed in
the staff box. The Phi prints four
biweekly political columns and two
biweekly humor columns which re-
ﬂect the author‘s opinions. My View

News

The news section always begins
on the front page and often extends
to other pages. The name of the
newspaper, underlined by the vol-
ume, number, place of publication
and date, is called the ﬂag or name-
plate. The frontlpage includes the
week's most important stories with
longer stories jumping inside. When
designing the front page, editors try
to make several entry points, places
which attract the eye to start reading.

Spons

This section covers the Generals
athletics. Stories here are often a mix
of the feature and news styles of writ-
ing. If there is an opinion column in
this section, it is labeled as such. The
Phi uses a sports front format, which
means that the most important stories
are on the newspaper's back page.
Jumps and other sports stories are on
the inside pages. The Phi does not .‘
have enough space to cover every sport

The Ring-tum Phi every week, so highlights from vari-

Post Office Box 899 Teaser boxes _at the ‘top of the page columns and letters, which anyone word, usually appears here. The sec- ous sports are sometimes put together
Lexington, Virginia highlight stories inside the P3PeT- Can Write, 3“? U0“ 3150 has music 1’6Vl6WS- in a section called Sports Notebook.
24450

 

 

  

S Th‘e Ring-tum Phi, September 4, 1993

    

By Francesca Kefalas

Sometimes it seems like Lexington has more
places to eat than it has year—— round residents.

But even staunch fans of the Letitia Pate
Evans Dining Hall will agree sometimes you
need a change. If you do not have access to a car
your options are a little more limited. But, then
ayin it’s about as far to the freshman parking
lot as it is to most of the restaurants that are not
a few blocks from the dorms. -

Lexington’s newest restaurant The Raven
and The Crown, is also the closest to the dorms.
An old English style pub, it serves breakfast all
day, which is something no other food places in
town does.

The menu offers quite a few breakfast
choices, such as french toast and omelets, and
also features a variety of appetizers that might
remind you of popular fun-food chains such as
TGIF’s or Bennigans. The Raven and The
Crown serves a variety of hot sandwiches and
also has full dinner entrees. There are also daily
sp‘!cials.

But, maybe the best part of the Raven and
the Crown is the prices. Eating dinner at the
restaurant could cost less than $5. The Raven

More food than 1)

and the Crown, located underneath Mountain
Copy Graphics on Lee Street, is closed on
Mondays.

The Palms was opened in 1975 and has been
a tradition for students turning 21 ever since.
But, The Palms, besides boasting one of the
longest drink lists you may have ever seen, also
has a large variety of hamburgers and hot sand-
wiches. The Palms has a bunch of “starters”
that really are more like a dinner unless you
share them. The Palms also has entrees and
serves a Sunday Brunch, which features choices
such as eggs Benedict and steak and eggs.

A typical dinner at the Palms will cost about
$8. The Palms is located on the corner of
Nelson and Jefferson Streets and is open every
day.

Spanky’s is another Lexington staple. The
chain restaurant features a long list of hot and
cold sandwiches in combinations you may not
have thought of. Each sandwich has its own
distinctive name but you can build your own
sandwich too. Spanky’s also has fun-food ap-
petizers and, to top it off, a wide selection of
deserts that will stuff you even if you have not
eaten dinner.

Dinner or lunch at Spanky’s will cost about
$8. Spanky’s is open for lunch and dinner every
day. It is located on
Jefferson Street next to
the fire station.

Harb’s is a bistro that

tal breakfast, lunch and
recently started serving
dinner entrees along
with their list of interest-
ing sandwiches and sal-
ads. Staring at you from
the counter is a display
case of Harb’s desserts
for the day. You may
want to skip your meal
and move right to des-
sert. _

Lunch or dinner at
Harb’s will cost about
$8. The restaurant is
open every day and is
located on Washington
Street, two blocks from
the dorms.

City Steaks and Subs
is not a sit-down restau-
rant, although there are
tables and chairs. The
restaurant features a
cheese steak modeled af-
ter the authentic Phila-
delphia Cheese Steaks,
and they deliver.

City Steaks and Subs

serves a light continen- .

V _is on ‘Main Street, and Walker unless it is a special occasion. But last

PAGE 3

‘FEATURES

you can get a sandwich there for less than $5.

The Sandwich Shop serves mostly cold sand-
wiches and is reasonably priced. It is located on
Jefferson Street and also has live entertain-
ment.

The Bone Bar and Grill serves starters, sand-
wiches and entrees. If you like ribs or spicy
chicken wings The Bone is the place in town to
go. Eating lunch or dinner will cost you about
$8 to $10.

You may wonder why every restaurant is
serving sandwiches, but these really are not the
kind of sandwiches you would make at home.
And, every restaurant has its own distinct menu
of sandwiches. But, if you’re in the mood for
something more than a sandwich, there are
places for that.

The Southern Inn serves breakfast, lunch
and dinner. Although it is not a big student
hang—out, it does have a homey, quiet atmo-
sphere. The Southern Inn is located on Main
Street.

If you don’t mind spending some more
money you can go to I1 Palazzo, Lexington’s
only Italian Restaurant. 11 Palazzo serves ev-
erything form pizza and calzones to seafood.

Many students go to 11 Palazzo for special
occasions, although you can eat there for as
little as $8, you can also spend as much as $15
just on your entree. Il Palazzo’s is open every
day and is located on Main Street.

The Willson-Walker House is next to II
Palazzo on Main Street. It is Lexington’s oldest
restaurant and certainly its most expensive.
You will rarely see students dining in Wilson-

5."

year, the restaurant began running dinner spe-
cial for $10. If they do it again it might be worth
the money just to see the beautiful restaurant,
which is located in a historic home.

If you like pizza, you have several choices in
Lexington. Domino’s has set-up a deal with the
university that allows students to put money on
the general debit portion of their identification
card and charge their pizza. Domino’s is also
open late, and deliver so often to W&L stu-
dents, chances are they can find you even in an
academic building.

.54‘ ,3;

l

eople in Lexington

Frank’s Pizza is out on Route 60 near Harris
Teeter, the supermarket, Frank’s also has hot
Italian heroes and other Italian fast foods.
Frank’s has an on again off again delivery
policy.

Pizza Hut is also on Route 60, a little farther
away than Frank’s. Pizza Hut delivers, or you
can go to them.

Right outside the Lexington city line is Little
Ceasers. Little Ceasers is on Route 60, in the
same shopping center as. K-Mart. They don’t
deliver, but the price is usually lower than the
other pizza places.

If fast food is what you want Lexington has
a lot of that too. On Route 60 you can find
McDonalds, Wendys, Hardees. Kentucky Fried
Chicken, Long John Silvers. Soon Taco Bell
will be joining the group. Also on Route 60 is
Old Virginia Barbecue. If you like barbecue
they will certainly make you happy. They also
have racks of ribs.

On Route 11, near Wal-Mart you will find
Burger King.

This may seem like a long list of places to
eat, but it’s not exactly complete. There are
restaurants that some student have never heard
off, and then there are always places like Shoneys

and The Golden Corral on Route or Country
Cookin on Route 60.

But, if what you really want is a snack and
not a meal, you can always walk to the Co-op,
W&L’s very own snack bar. With the magic of
your identification card you can satisfy all
kinds of hunger pangs at the Co—op. The Co-op
is open until midnight Sunday to Thursday.

So, there you go. If you ever want a change
of pace from the dining hall you have a lot of
options.

Enjoy.

 

O

. The Ring-tum Phi is looking for interested and
.enthusiastic people to write news and features, take

pictures, ask questions, edit copy, and fetch coffee (only   I
° kidding). The only requirements are a willingness to get l

involved and wanting to be among the first to find out all
'° the news at W&L.

See the World....Join the Phi

, Sign up at the Students Activities Fair,
Thursday, Sept. 8. The Phi will also have a
meeting to discuss goals for the coming year.

Join us and tell us what you would like to see in

the newspaper. The meeting will be Saturday
Sept. 11 in the University Center’s Fairfax
Lounge at 3 p.m.

. l

 

 

 

Last Week:

Practice for fall sports
began September 1

PAGE 4

Generals take the field with high hopes for fall :93

By SARAH ‘GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

For all of the freshmen who turned
to the sports page first, this is the story
you’ve been waiting for: The Of-
Course—Football-is-Most-Important-
But-We-Have-to-Mention-the—Other-
Sports-Anyway story. For everyone
else, this is a preview of the upcoming
year of Washington and Lee sports.

Football (yes, we must always be-
gin with football) comes off what the
sports world calls a “rebuilding” year
in which the Generals compiled a 5-4
record. This year, unfortunately, the
boys in blue must rebuild again, due to
the loss of both graduated seniors and
injury-prone under-grads.

Junior Geren Steiner, quarterback,
is the most glaring loss from the Gen-
erals’ roster. However, optimism reigns
in W&L’s locker room; a strong class
of freshmen and sophomores should
keep the team at least as strong as last
year.

On a more superficial note, the
scheduling highlight of the decade is
the first-ever Washington and Lee ath-
letic event held in Bermuda, as the
Generals face the Hoyas of Georgetown

flirt iﬂing-tum iﬂhi

SPORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBAL_L, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

November 20.

W&L faces Emory and Henry at
Emory for its first contest September
11. The Generals will come home to
Wilson Field for the first time October
9, homecoming, against Davidson Col-
lege.

Because sports editors have the
power of self-imposing a qualitative
order on sports which each have their
own intrinsic merits, we now move to
one of W&L’s most interesting sports,
water polo.

Water polo is something of a mys-
tery to many incoming freshmen. The
game is similar to soccer, played in the
water with seven men and using one
hand to move the ball.

Last year’s water polo team was
rousingly successful, winning the East-
em title. This year’s team, with the
return of senior top scorers Greg Golub
and Jake Berman, should prove to be
equally stellar.

Coach Page Remillard and his band
of waterboys will kick off the season
with an intrasquad scrimmage today,
and will host the Washington and Lee
Fall Classic Sept. 1 1.

Men’s and women’s soccer both
begin their seasons on Sept. 11, as well.

The Lady Generals will travel to

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Hing-tum Phi

Athletic practice has just started at Washington and Lee, but
this athlete is already in agony in the training room.

Parents 

For 96 years the W&L community has looked
to The Ring-tum Phi for the latest news,’

opinions, sports and campus coverage.

 

Agnes Scott College for their season
opener. Coach Janine Hathorn hopes
to better last year’s second place finish
in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence.

With a squad which only graduated
one player, the Liberty Hall Fields
should be action-packed and victory-
laden this season.

Their male counterparts open their
season with two matches in Kentucky,
versus Centre College on Sept. 11 and
Transylvania University Sept. 12. The
Generals return home for the W&L
Soccer Classic on Sept. 18-19.

Little has changed since last year’s
team went 8-8, so seniors Dan Rhodes
and John Robinson should lead the
squad to a new and improved season in
’94. '

Volleyball begins its season with a
brand-new coach, Terri Dadio of Tren-
ton State, and a roster full of experi-
enced returnees, notably senior Tara
Burns and junior Jennifer Garrigus.

W&L volleyball will kick off the
’93 season with a match at Christopher
Newport Sept. 11.

Finally, cross country returns from
a very strong year in which both men
and women claimed ODAC titles and
sent at least one athlete to Division III
National Championships, each retum-
ing with one All-American.

Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer, the
last word in W&L women’s athletics,
will return after her All-American sea-
son to lead the Generals, who did not
lose any athletes to graduation.

Coach Jim Phemister will lead his
squad to their first meet Sept. 11 at the
Lebanon Valley Invitational.

Though the men lost their All-
American to graduation, coach John
Tucker hopes to repeat as ODAC cham-
pions with a strong core of runners.
The men will join the women at their
Lebanon Valley meet.

Freshmen who have actually made
it this far, through the turgid mire of
soccer, volleyball, cross country and
the like, would probably like some
additional information.

Washington and Lee University has
an exclusively Division III athletic pro-
gram, competing in the Old Dominion
Athletic.Conference. Some of the Gen-

 

This Week:
Most teams’ first contests will

be September 11

Water Polo: Scrimmage today 9’

  
 
  

 

   

SEPTEMBER 4, 1993

    

Washington and Lee volleyball players wait for practice to begn

in Doremus gymnasium.

erals’ chief rivals include the Maroons
of Roanoke College, the Wasps of
Emory and Henry and the Yellow Jack-
ets of Randolph-Macon.

Football games are played on nearby
Wilson Field; soccer is held on the
Liberty Hall Fields. Water polo will

Subscribe to the Phi.

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOJOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO000000O000000000
O

5/ Receive 29 issues“anid”i4 special issues of
The Ring-tum Phi at your home every week
for only $30 a year. The Phi is mailed the day

of publication without exception.
3/To subscribe, fill in the information on the

right and enclose with a check for $3Q made
payable to The Ring-tum Phi. Send payment

to

The Ring-tum Phi, P. O. Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450

%5Yes, start my subscription immediately!
I want to keep up with life at W&L.

Name

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Phi

show its stuff in the Cy Twombly Pool.
Enjoy your first few days, freshman
sports nuts! If you need up-to-the-
minute info, call Washington and Lee
sports information at 462-8674. 0
Expect excellent sports coverage
every week at Ring-tum Phi sports.

Be apart of an evolving tradition.

Address

Telephone number

