    

54‘ 2;?‘

Li .1.i\‘v ¥..!BF’J‘»RY

  

WM: H-«frzt..~...'s. ;..:-.5 2.1s\ws_nsn"v

 

1

. "”\.“f}"'t.'_.*¢»l_ ‘~.'.A 34451)
i‘i:"’al'~? '1

8 1991+

   

 

Festival of 0ne—Aots Women’sLAXdrops no to
opens Wednesdaya Roanoke 15-8  

 

‘s _ . - / .
JJMCE 93, N0. 23 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA MARCH 18, 1994

   
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
 
   
   
  
     

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

liour members of Beta Theta Pi fra-
ity were arrested this weekend for
Jession of marijuana.

Xndrew Suthard, ’95, Christopher
.phy,’95, Garrett Bouldin, ’96, and
istopher Buford,’96, have been
“geﬁ with a Class 1 misdemeanor
‘ Jossession of marijuana. Suthard,
phy, and Bouldin declined to com-
it. Buford could not reached after
: phone calls to the Beta house and
room. A conviction for a Class 1
‘demeanor carries a maximum fine
2,530, a maximum of one year in
. or a combination of both penalties.
Lexington Police Sergeant Rick
ton had been called to the Beta

house early Sunday morning to inves-
tigate a noise violation around 2 a.m.
The noise came from a loud stereo in
Buford’s room. Lexington Police Chief
Bruce Beard said as Sutton neared the
room, there was “a strong odor of mari-
juana present outside and inside the
room.” Beard said the odor came from
Buford’s room.

Beard said police conﬁscated two
bags of what police believe to be mari-
juana. Beard explained that until lab
results come back police cannot verify
that the substance is marijuana. Each
bag contained about five grams of the
substance.

Police also conﬁscated a purple bong
and a brass pipe. Beard said the total
value of all of the confiscated items
was about $60.

Beta President Dana Arrighi said
Buford has been evicted from his room
at the Beta house.

“It violates his room lease,” Arrighi
said. “It is his responsibility not to have
[marijuana] on the premises.”

Arrighi said Suthard and Bouldin
will be permitted to live in the house
until the trial, which is set for April 12.
Arrighi said if they are convicted, they
will be evicted from the house. Murphy
is the only one of the four who does not
live in the house.

Arrighi said the house will also wait
until after the trial to evaluate the four’s
status as members of the house.

“The housing corporation is not tak-
ing action until after the court date
April 12,” Arrighi said. “Both the hous-
ing corporation and our nationals have

been notified.”

Interfraternity Council President
Curt Smith said the
charges do not fall
withinthejursidictionof
the IFC.

Associate Dean of
Students for Greek Af-
fairs Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said although
possession of controlled
substances in the frater-
nity house does violate
IFC standards, it is up to
the individual chapter to
enforce the rules.

“The IFC needs to
take a look at how the
Betas are handling it,” Atkins said.
“The Betas are dealing with their hous-

Buford

    

ing corporation. They are making an
effort to enforce [the standards] and are

doing so relatively suc-
cessfully.”

Student Conduct
Committee Chairman
Rajeev “Reggie”
Aggarwal and incoming
chairman Whitney
Bludworth said the SCC
cannot take action on the
case unless someone re-

ports it.
Aggarwal, Atkins,
and Arrighi said the uni-

versity is not in a position
to act on the case.
Aggarwal said this has

been an unusually active year in terms
of marijuana cases. Aggarwal said the

four arrested on drug charges

SCC has heard 12cases involving mari-
juana possession or use this year, double
the usual amount of cases.

This week the SCC evicted four
freshman from the dorms and gave
them community service hours and
conduct and social probation for mari-
juana use in the dorms. The SCC also
gave that punishment in a similar case
earlier this year.

Aggarwal commented on the seri-
ousness of the punishment decided by
the SCC.

“They forfeit the money for the
dorm,” Aggarwal said in reference to
the most recent SCC case. “They’ve
paid a big penalty — 500 or 600 dol-
lars. The usual standard [for service
hours] is 30 hours, plus social proba-
tion and conduct probation.”

    

   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 
 
 
 
 

 
  

511 hf nd r1 p}i£..

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

   

gfist of wind blows Old Glory nearly perpendicular to her ﬂagstaff. Clear but windy days like
he one pictured have been characteristic of the weather lately. But it’s better than snow.

 

 

 

By YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

Dr. William J. Watt, profes-
ofghemistry at Washington
Lee University, will retire at
end of this year.
‘At Washington and Lee,
itt’s many roles included: As-
tant Dean ’66-’68, Associate
an ’68-’71, Dean of the Col-
e ’]}l-’84, Head of the Chem-
y epartment ’87-’91, Head
the Premedical Committee
-’94, Chairperson for the
sidential Search Committee
82 and ’94, and Chairperson
A the University Self Study for
‘creﬁitation ’77-’78.

Watt was awarded the Wil-
m Webb Pusey III Award for
tstanding service and dedica-
n to the university, as well as
‘ Lynchburg Citation. He has
to been a chairperson of the
itio lDean’s conference and
resident of the Conference of
:ademic Deans of the Southern
ates. He also belongs to the
cial fraternity Alpha Chi
nega, the honorary fraternity
i Eta Sigma, as well as the
ner'can Chemical Society, the
tgima Academy of Science and

  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
    
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
  

  

the New York Academy of Sci-
ence.

Watt was born in Carbondale,
Illinois on Dec. 15, 1925. At the
age of 17, he joined the Army’s
Specialized Training Program,
aimed at promoting education.
Watt attended this program at the
University of Michigan until
1944, when the program was ter-
minated. Shortly after, Watt went
overseas to ﬁght in World War
II.

' “I never really saw the war, I
was shipped from place to place.

‘At 18, I was not worried about
my future. I kept busy with the
30 paperback books per month
that the Army supplied us, that is
how I got my education,” said
Watt.

After thewar, Watt went on to
receive his bachelor’s degree
from the University of Illinois
and his master’s and Ph.D. from
Cornell University. Before com-
ing to Washington and Lee, Watt
taught at both Davidson and
Cornell.

“As a student at Davidson, I
realized that Dr. Watt was close
friends with many of the profes-
sors I admired. Later on, I came
to View him as an ideal colleague

and a master of detail. It is amaz-
ing how much he has accom-
plished in such a short period of
time. It is really extraordinary to
see him in operation,” said col-

league Dr. Brown Goehring, pro— ‘

fessor of chemistry.

“I will not attempt to summa-
rize the contributions Dean Watt
has made to the University in the

I signiﬁcant years of his service in

Washington Hall,” said President
of the University John D. Wil-
son. “You know about these first
hand  I can testify to the univer-
sal respect he has earned for him-
self, the College, and the Univer-
sity in his work away from Lex-
ington,——in the Commonwealth
to be sure, but in national and
foreign settings as well. His un-
failing good sense and good cheer
are exceeded only by his humil-
ity and decency. We owe him
more than we can ever repay.”
Watt met his wife, Helen,

‘while working for the Univer-

sity.

“Her father had a farm out-
side Lexington. She worked at
the News Ofﬁce. Back then all
the single employees of the uni-
versity would meet for lunch in
the back room of the Co-op. I

hemistry prof set to retire

met her there and we got married ‘

at the end of that year on Sept 1,
1956,” Watt said.

Watt is a season ticket holder
at the Richmond Opera. He has
also been active in the Rockbridge
Regional Chorus and R.E. Lee
Episcopal Church. Other hob-
bies include traveling and play-
ing bridge.

Watt’s travel destinations
have included England, France,
Japan, Korea, Egypt, Turkey,
Panama, Italy, and Hong Kong.
According to the Chemistry De-
partment Head, Michael Pleva,
Watt is a “gracious, but deadly
bridge player.”

“I believe that if we lined up
all the- professors at W & L and
had them go on Jeopardy, Dr.
Watt would win. He has the
widest range of knowledge,” said
chemistry major T.R. Kinsey,

’95.

When asked the reason why
he was retiring, Watt replied “I
am tired, it is time for me to stop.
I have really enjoyed my life at
Washington and Lee. I have en-
joyed the students. I have en-
joyed Lexington. If I had to do it
over again, I would do it exactly
the same way.”

Honor System
talks underway

By THOMAS Hesros
Phi News Editor

It has been a busy week for
Washington and Lee’s Honor
System.

The week started on Sunday,
March 13 with a dinner discus-
sion on the Honor System. This
kicked off two.Exqcutive Com-
mittee Vmeetings that dealt with
the White Book Review Com-
mittee and their new proposed
revisions to the White Book.

The EC, having had one week
to review the revisions submit-
ted by Hutton and the WBRC,
Monday reviewed the changes
and tentatively approved several
of them. Changes to the White

- Book require a two-thirds vote of

the full EC on two occasions
spaced at least one week apart.
The EC‘. ’s voting on Monday com-
posed the first of those two votes.

“I think you’ve made a num-
ber of good suggestions for
changing the White Book,” said
EC President Robert Tompkins
to White Book Review Commit-
tee Chairman Ames Hutton.

Many of the changes tenta-
tively approved on Monday dealt
with stylistic changes to the White
Book. As a result, little opposi-
tion was taken to the amend-
ments and most were approved
unanimously.

Some discussion was spurred

by a proposed amendment to
paragraph I of the procedure for
an Executive Committee Hear-
ing. This section currently gives
the committee the power to stop
its proceedings at any time and
for any reason by a vote of one-
third of the members present.‘ The
proposed amendment would
change the word “stop” to “ter-

‘ minate,” which ’the"WBRC rec-

ommendations say would
“clearly delineate the end of the
proceedings.”

The amendment was passed
11-2, with representatives James
Rambeau and Keith Benedict
dissenting.

“I wish there was more of a
statement about what the presi-
dent is empowered to do (in the
proceedings),” said Rambeau.

The proposed amendment that
prompted the most discussion on
Monday was one that would
change the language regarding
what instances of conduct could

be brought under the Honor Sys- 1

tern. The proposed amendment
reads: -

“The Executive Committee
may, at its discretion, refer cer-
tain matters to other University
disciplinary bodies. University
committees such as the Student
Conduct Committee and the Stu-
dent-Faculty Hearing Board are
uniquely qualiﬁed to address spe-
ciﬁc sensitive issues. Every stu-

dent has the right, however, to
bring any suspected instance of
dishonorable conduct to the at-
tention of the Executive Com-
mittee.”

The amendment also strikes a
sentence from the White Book
that reads “Hence, there may be
many things reprehensible and
heartily condemned by the Ex-
ecutive Committee which still
cannot be brought. under the
Honor System.”

Junior EC Representative
Alex Cross said this amendment
could give the impression that
the single sanction is no longer
intact.

“It’s like saying ‘we're not a
single sanction. We’ll let you
handle it,’” Cross said.

Rambeau said the proposed
statement would make students
aware of the SCC and SFHB.

“By having this paragraph,
we make people aware of these
other bodies,” he said.

EC Secretary Ashby Hack-
ney said the new language would
not deprive students bringing rape
cases to the EC of “the right to
have the EC investigate it as a
possible honor violation.”

- The EC approved the striking
of the “Hence statement,” as it
came to be called, but refused to
adopt the new language recom-

I->See EC, page 9

    
     
       
       
      
    
     
    
     

 
  
 
   
        

  

 
  

 
 
  

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World   

Russia to decrease production
of weapons grade plutonium

Russia has agreed to decrease over several years the
production of weapons grade plutonium. An agreement
signed Wednesday by Russia and the U.S. mandated that
Russia shut down its plutonium producing reactors. Three
other countries with nuclear capabilities have stopped pro-
ducing plutonium weapons materials.

Serbs and Croats begin peace
talks Tuesday in Zagreb

Serbs and Croats have agreed to talks on ending the strife
in the Balkans. The talks will begin Tuesday in Zagreb. Serb
and Muslim officials ended the 23-month siege of Sarajevo
by signing an agreement to open roads traveling in and out of

‘ Sarajevo.

Mosque massacre may have
been committed by two people

Testimony before an Israeli commission of inquiry raised
the idea that Barush Goldstein did not act alone in massacring
worshippers at a Hebron mosque, but perhaps had an accom-
plice. Guards testified Thursday that another Israeli, who
entered after Goldstein, held the weapon.

Nine convicted and sentenced
to death in Egypt

Nine men were convicted and sentenced to death in Egypt
for trying to assassinate Egypt’s prime minister. Last No-
vember a bomb killed a 12-year-old girl but left Egypt’s
prime minister unscathed.

The Nation  

 

Tonya Harding pleads guilty

Tonya Harding pleaded guilty Wednesday to conspiring to
hinder prosecutors investigating the attack on her skating
rival Nancy Kerrigan. Harding also resigned from the U.S.
Figure Skating Association. In her plea, she admitted to
conspiring to invent a false alibi for the attack. A judge
ordered her to pay a $160,000 fine and perform 500 hours of
community service.

Space Shuttle to land Friday

Space Shuttle Columbia is scheduled to land Friday mom-
ing, ending the second-longest ﬂight in shuttle history —— 13
days, 23 hours and eight minutes. The crew of the Columbia
has been conducting space shuttle experiments. The ﬂight
will land at Florida’s Kennedy Space Center.

Marlon Brando questioned
in Michael Jackson hearing

Marlon Brando appeared before a grand jury hearing child
molestation allegations against Michael Jackson. Brando
was questioned if his son Miko, who worked as the singer’s

A bodyguard, discussed the investigation with him. The teen-

age boy who brought the charges against Jackson settled his
lawsuit for $15 million. Jackson has denied the allegations.

Jersey mob boss indicted

Reputed mob boss John Stanfa and 23 others were indicted
on racketeering charges. The indictments targeted the Phila-
delphia—south New Jersey mob. Stanfa and others are charged
with crimes ranging from murder to kidnapping and arson.

The State 

Allen declines club invitation

Governor George Allen has decided not to join the all-
male, mostly white Commonwealth Club, an exclusive so-
cial club. Allen explained that governors are held to a
different standard than is the rest of society. Allen felt that to
join would be to risk possible misinterpretation by the people
of Virginia.

J MU considers tougher policy
concerning sexual assault

Students at James Madison University protested the cam-
pus’ current sexual assault policy. Forty members of the
Student Coalition Against Rape held a sit-in in favor of a
tougher rape policy.- JMU’s Judicial Control board,'which
had been studying sexual assault policies, responded by
delaying its proposals to consider student opinions.

By JOE FRAMPTOM
Phi Staff Writer

When many Washington and Lee students return
to Lexington next September to hit the books, seniors
Julie Townsend and Jason Aiken will be hitting the
books elsewhere and putting their hard-eamed skills
to work.

Following graduation on June 3, Townsend and
Aiken will be going to work at jobs they have
received through W&L’s Career Development and
Placement office. Both students have accepted of-
fers from accounting firms in Washington, D.C.
Beverly Lorig, associate director of the CD&P
office, said she thinks the job placement program
“has gone very well this year,” even though she
cautioned “it’s too early to say.” Although on-
campus interviews are now coming to an end, Lorig
said many students are still involved in the follow-up
process that may lead them to a job offer later in the
spring.

But Lorig is confident that more students will land
jobs as graduation approaches. She said a national
survey of employers shows “this is the first year in
more than three years that there has been a positive
increase in the anticipated hiring needs” nationwide.
Compared with other four-year universities, Lorig
said W&L traditionally has been above average in
attracting student recruiters even though on-campus
student recruitment is on the decline nationwide.

That decline, however, has not kept 51 employers
from coming to campus this year to interview seniors
for openings.

“The majority of on-campus recruitment takes
place beginning in January” and “most will be over
by the end of Winter Term.” Lorig said. “What you
have in terms of the on-campus recruitment program
are those employers who have traditionally hired
large numbers for structured training programs.”

She added that these employers tend to be in the
financial services area such as banking, investment
banking, and accounting.

Townsend and Aiken said the CD&P office had
been very helpful in preparing them for their inter-
views.

“They had the whole process set up for me and the
interviewers came to me. I can’t imagine having to
set that up on my own,” Aiken said.

Aiken added that the office gave him assistance
with the preparation of his resume, and was also

helpful in preparing him for his interviews.

Aiken also said he had a taped practice interview
with people in the CD&P office. Through this
process, he could go over the tape “to help [me] learn
what [I] did right and wrong.” He added that the
practice interview was helpful because it helped him
get his answers out ﬁmily.

“Sometimes you know what you want to say but
you just don’t know how to say it,” he said.

   
 

Townsend was equally positive on W&L’s‘

The Rin -tum Phi March 18 199

CD&P offers career help-

      
 
 

II

 

Seniors land jobs thanks to job fairs, careerldays

CD&P staff members Ruth Lewis, Beverly Loring and Vicky Saunders help
many seniors face the real world by aiding in the job search.

According to Lorig, many W&L students receiv
job offers from off-campus interviews and contac
in fields such as journalism, public relations, an
advertising. .

“Employers in those particular areas do not go o
campuses to recruit because they’re not hiring i
vast numbers for training programs. They hire 
positions become available,” she said.

She said students in those areas must use
combination of resources to contact possible e

Career Development and Placement office. Townsend
said the people in the CD&P office helped her exten-
sively with her resume, and provided her with inter-
view assistance. She said she “felt really confident
about our career development department. They just
really helped me a lot.”‘

Although the on-campus interview system places
many students in financial service positions, Lorig
said “our students last year entered into sales and
teaching in greater numbers than other areas of em-
ployment,” even though these types of jobs are not

  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
    
       
  

Fil phot

    
     

       

typically ﬁlled through on-campus interviews because
these employers don’t hire in vast numbers.

4 See CD&P, page 5

  

ng-tum Phi

    

Photo by Betsy Gree, he R1

JubiLee sings to beneﬁt AmFar, the American Fund for AIDS research. The Wednesday
night concert made over $200 dollars for the organization.

Concert benefits AIDS fund

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

with the turnout.” He wished to thank everyone involved
including “the groups, Ms. Van Clief, the Lenfest Staff, and
the two restaurants.”

tended.

of the AIDS Education Project and JubiLee.

On Wednesday night a benefit concert raised over $200
for AmFar, the American Foundation for AIDS Research.

The university’s three a cappella groups performed:
J ubiLee, Southern Comfort, and General Admission. Senior
Lyrae Van Clief delivered a solo performance as well.

Event organizer Meriwhether Nichols celebrated the
event as “a great success.” She said over 200 people at-

“After getting such a good reception, we hope to make
this an annual event,” Nichols added. Nichols is a member

Senior Pat McDermott, founder of the AIDS Education
Project, also hailed the event as a success. He was “shocked

Frank’s Pizza and City Subs and Steaks provided food
for the performers.

McDermott also wished to give a special congratulations
to Nichols.

“She did a tremendous job,” said McDermott, adding
that he was “grateful for everything that Ms. Nichols had
done.”

Reactions from the audience were overwhelmingly posi-
tive. All in attendance donated money which will go to
AmFar.

Freshman Denis Riva, who is a member of the AIDS
Education Project and General Admission, was “glad that
the three a cappella groups could come together for such a
good cause.”

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Date rape, eating disorders, severe
depression, homesickness, stress —
these are some of the problems next
year’s dorm counselors and resident
assistants will be trained toaddress.

Thirty-one counselors and nine resi-
dent assistants have been picked for the
1994-95 school year. Approximately
75 to 80 people applied for the 31 dorm

 

DCs and RA   lected ornext yea

counselor positions, according to Dean
of Freshmen and Residence Life Den-
nis Manning.

While there are no assistant head
RAS, four assistant head dorm coun-
selors have been chosen: Drew
Hammond, Megan McCloskey,
Reuben Munger and Derick Thomson.

Junior Kelly Brotzman will be
W&L’s head dorm counselor next year.

“Being a dorm counselor is prob-

ably the most rewarding experience
people that do it have,” said Brotzman.

Brotzman had two interviews to
obtain the headposition. Her duties as
head dorm counselor next year include
keeping the entire dorm counselor staff
informed, keeping in close touch with
the four assistant heads and keeping up
with campus issues and disciplinary

Brotzman” I Albert

problems that may affect the freshmen.
For Brotzman, one of the hardest
things about being a dorm counselor is

ships with the freshmen while having
to enforce the rules. [One must] culti-
vate a balance of respect and friend-
ship.”

Brotzman, along with next year’s

\

 
  

“trying to develop really good friend-

Petty  
thefts hit’
law schoo

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

 
    

Washington and Lee Director 1
Security Mike Young said items we
stolen from five cartels at the law ho c
last weekend between 10 p.m. atu
day and Monday morning.

‘The items
stolen in-
clude a radio
with car-
phones, a
bookbagwith
leather trim, a
watch, an
electric ra-
zor, ciga-
rettes and a
lighter, a por-
table CD
player and
CD5, and. a
Sony Walkman. The bookbag was lat
found near the Waddell School.

Young said all the items were tak 
from the same area of carrels.

“It appears to be the work ofyou
people,” Young-said. “They are n
college-aged.”

Young also said security and t
police have no leads in the break-ins c
freshman Jay Taggart’s room duri I
Fancy Dress weekend. Young add
that nothing else has happenedgo t
room since the last break-in .
Monday, March 7.

   
   

  

   
 
     

Young

  
   

 
  
  
   
  

  
     
  
  

  
   

other 30 dorm counselors, will tte
intense training sessions one we k b
fore the freshmen arrive at W&L.
counselorswill receive training on si
ations like date rape and suicide a
will become familiar with univers
policy.

Junior Christopher Albert fro
Baltimore, MD, will be the com u
cation link between Manning a
Gaines Hall as next year’s head re
dent assistant.

“Gaines is a great place to live
said Albert.

While the resident assistants are al-
trained, they have different petﬂale I
take care of and, therefore, differe
training.
,Mf.f,S,99h9mor,es have different pm
lems," said Albert.

As head RA, Albert Will be active
involved in organizing social activiti
for Gaines and other projects. 9

   
  
   
   
    

  
  
     
  

  
   
   
     

      
     
      
      

  
  

By Ethan Krupp
Phi Features Editor
.
The new Nine Inch Nails album has ﬁnally
. arrived, only six years after the first.
The Downward Spiral is the second full-
length album, the first since the 1988 release of
Pretty Hate Machine. An EP was released in
1992, Broken, but it didn’t have the feel of an
albhm. In the six years since the release of
Pretty Hate Machine, Nine Inch Nails and the
man behind the band, Trent Reznor, have be-
‘ come the premier band of hard-core alternative
. music. The intense beats of Pretty Hate Ma-
‘ chine, when combined with the loud, white

noise sound of Broken have won many con-
" verqs.

The new album, is a blending of the previous
two, but it leans to the harder, louder side. The
first song, “Mr. Self Destruct,” starts slow and
speeds up to an intense beat that breaks into a
loud, in-your-face style of wailing guitars, drum
machines and Reznor’s vocals. As the track
pr resses, hammering in the destructive and
manipulative qualities of drugs, it suddenly
stops, opening to a almost Cure-like moody
guitar hidden in the back. Just as you rush to
crank the volume some more, the white noise

  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  

 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

By ETHAN KRUPP and
HILLARY OLSON
. of the Phi staff

W " Four short playswill be featured in’ "
the Annual Festival of One Act .P1ays;._ -.
directed and acted by Washington and
Lee students and presented in the
I./(?1fest Center between March 23 and
3

Brilliant Traces, by Cindy Lou
Johnson, is often described as on off-
kilter dramatic work. Directed by
Megan Duncan, ’95, it deals with a
man, played by Dan Tipton, ’97, cooped
up in a lonely Alaskan cabin during a
sn wstorm. A woman dressed in full
bridal regalia trying to escape her wed-
ding, played by Elizabeth Weaver, ’95,
finds shelter in the cabin and stays
there with him. The couple alternately
. repulse and attract each other as they
7 are stranded together. They explore
together similar pasts that have left
them bitter and disenchanted about life
and they learn about themselves through
their experience together. Brilliant
Traces is to be performed March 23,
27 and 29 at 8 pm in the Johnson
Theater.

‘I/I/ea“L1:;[e

and beat return to blast you off of your feet and
drive your dorm room neighbors up the wall.
On more than on occasion, I have felt obligated
to close more door as I listen to this album
Another track on the album, “March of
the Pigs,” is set-up around a similar
pattern, but at 269 beats-per—minute it
is an intense roller coaster ride dur-
ing which you can do nothing but
hang on. The break in the song is 5
constructed to seem like the space
between two tracks on a com-
pact disc. In other words, when _ 
the song starts back up, you are ' _
caught completely off-guard. ’
The video that recently pre-
miered on MTV, mirrors the
set up of the song. The video is ,
bizarre because it is so simple ' '
that the make-up person can be
seen coming onto the stage in the
break, fixing Reznor’s make-up, _
and leaving the stage. This is a S
contrast to an entire album made
almost entirely by one man with a I
large supply of drum machines, key- 
boards, samplers, and Macintoshes to pro-
gram the music.

The main content ofthe album deals with the
lack of control we have over our lives, and in
some cases, the amount of control others have
over us. From “Ruiner,” the sixth track, “You
had all of them on your side, didn ’t you?/ You
believed in all of your lies, didn’t you? / The
runier’s got a lot to prove he ’s got nothing to
lose and nowhe made you believe / The ruiner ’s
your only friend well he ’s the living end to the
cattle he deceives / The raping of the innocent
you know the ruiner ruins everything he sees. ”

“I Do Not Want This” shows the control
others have over us. “I do not want this / Don ’I
you tell me how I feel / Don ’t you tell me how I
feel / Don ’t you tell me how I feel, ” and “You
would know, wouldn’t you? / You extend your
hand to those who suffer / to those who know

Nine Inch Nails re

what it really feels like, ” demonstrate this con-
trol.

The album does vary from the sound of
Pretty Hate Machine and Broken. The beats
tend to lay out like PrettyHateMachine, yet the
guitars and sampled noise is more melodious
than Broken ’s noise. Most of the songs have a
well defined beat as the basic foundation, upon
which numerous layers of samples, guitars,
basses, and keyboards are added. Nine Inch
Nails would not exist if not for the ability to
computerize and program music, yet this does
not make Reznor any less of a musician. He is
merely able to create sounds impossible for a

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 

band performing live. Although he does tour
with musicians and features several guest mu-
sicians on The Downward Spiral. One of these
is Stephen Perkins on drums for “I Do Not
Want This.” Perkins was the drummer for
_ J ane’s Addiction before the group broke
V. up and is currently working with Jane’s
A Addiction founder Perry Farrell in
; Porno For Pyros. There has always
 been an interesting relationship
between Nine Inch Nails and
Jane’s Addiction since Pretty
HateMachine,where Jane’s Ad-
diction is one of the five music
— groups cited by Reznor as
sources for ideas and sounds.
The others include Public En-
. emy and Prince. Both Nine Inch
_ NailsandJane’sAddictionplayed
V the first Lollapalooza tour, and
Nine Inch Nails stole the show and
t-shirt sales from Jane’s Addiction.
. The album also has one very
1 unique piece, a three minute, 22 sec-
, ond track titled “A Warm Place” based
on a surrealistic guitar and a lack of
vocals. The piece is a contrast to the remain-

»  der of the album because very little of the loud,

angry tone is present. This piece serves to
remind us that The Downward Spiral is not all
loud, fast and intense pieces. In fact, there are
more slower pieces on this album than any
other Nine Inch Nails release. These pieces
may have some loud noise or fast parts, but the
slowness serves its purpose by luring you into
a comfortable mood and then attacking your
eardrums. “Eraser” is the perfect example of
this, especially since it follows “A Warm Place.”

The ﬁrst single off The Downward Spiral,
“March of the Pigs,” is a must if you are a
diehard Nine Inch Nails fan, and still a good
idea if you like The Downward Spiral. It has the
album version of “March of the Pigs,” along
with a unbelievable remix of “March of the
Pigs” titled “All the Pigs, All Lined Up.” It also

 

PAGE 3

turns at last

has two remixes of “Reptile” and previously
unreleased bonus track.

The entire album was recorded in the Tate
Mansion in Hollywood, Calif., where Charles
Manson and his followers murdered Sharon
Tate, which is now Reznor’s home. An inter-
esting story mention in several magazine ar-
ticles about Reznor and the album is the visit
paid to him by Tori Amos. She attempted to
cook him a chicken for dinner in the kitchen,
but for some reason, couldn’t. She reportedly
leftthe house shaken, feeling that it was haunted.
It seems like a logical recording studio and
home for someone has cited Clive Barker as a
source of musical ideas.

The origin of the name Nine Inch Nails is in
question, but the most plausible answer is that
the nails that seal a coffin shut are nine inches
in length. Other solutions are the nails driven
through Christ’s hands were nine inches long
and the fingernails of the Statue of Liberty are
nine inches long.

So if you love dancing to “Head Like A
Hole” and “Down In It” at fraternity parties and
wallowing in your rage to Broken, then The
Downward Spiral is for you.

 

filled with comedy and drama

Ingrid (Ellen Dean, ’94) waits impatiently as the Valentine Fairy (Bill Haase, ’97) sets up a
slide show of her past lovers in The Valentine Fairy directed by Jeff Mikita, ’94.

Pubicity Photo

 

ﬂ)irected by Andrew Campbell, ’94,
Sure Thing is another entirely student-
run one act play originally written by
David Ives. In this drama, a young man
_ and woman (played by Noelle Parrott,
’95, and Denis Riva, ’97) meet by
chance in a cafe. She is reading a
Failkner novel, and he desperately
searches his mind for any memories
about Fualkner in an effort to make an
acquaintance. After each attempt, a
bell rings and time hops backwards so
that he can try again after botching up
each try. In time he gets it right. Sure
T ing will be performed immediately
a er Brilliant Traces on March 23, 27
and 29 at 8 p.m.

Eleemosynary, a play by Lee Bless-
ing and directed by Mandy Irons, ’95,
deals with the delicate relationships of

  
 
  
 
   
     
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  

 

Publicity Photo

Dorian Lucas, ’94, LesleyLarsen, Jeanne Dillon, ’96, play in
Eleemosynary in the Annual Festival of One Acts this year.

three women, played by Dorian Lucas,
’95, Jeanne Dillon, ’96, and Lesley
Larsen (from a local high school.) The
grandmother Dorothea has sought to
assert her independence her whole life
through strong will and eccentricity.
Her brilliant daughter Artie flees from
the stiﬂing domination of her mother,
and Artie’s daughter Echo, an ex-
tremely sensitive young woman has
been abandoned by her mother and has
been raised by Dorothea.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

   

The three must wrestle with their
strained relationship and come to peace
with themselves and their family. In
the end, after Dorothea’s death, Artie
and Echo acknowledge their need for
each other and try to build a life to-
gether. The play will be performed‘
March 25, 28 and 30 at 8 p.m.

The Valentine Fairy, written by
Ernest Thompson , will be featured

rafter Eleemosynary on March 25, 28

and 30 at 8 p.m. Directed by Jeff deals

 
 

Publicity Photo

Denis Riva, ’97, and Noelle Parrott, ’95, during rehearsal for Sure Thing. The one act is
directed by Andrew Campbell, ’94 and written by David Ives. It is one of the four one
acts in the Annual Festival of One Acts starting on March 23.

with an unhappy woman named Ingrid,
played by Ellen Dean, ’94, who sleeps
most of the day away in her apartment
and has endured several negative rela-
tionships. Suddenly the Valentine fairy,
played by Bill Haase, ’97, appears in
her apartment and shows her slides of
her past lovers. As they examine the
past, Ingrid rediscovers her innocence.
Because this play is only a year old,
working on it has been very enjoyable,
according to Mikita.

He has also “had the pleasure of
talking with Ernest Thompson,” in
connection with the play.

Mikita said, “directing is an intel-
lectual challenge,” and he likes that.

Mikita also said that one of his fa-
vorite parts of directing is “tying all
aspects of the play together.”

  

Publi it Phot
Dan Tipton, ’97, and Elizabeth Weaver, ’95, play in Brillyiani
Traces in the W&L Annual Festival of One Acts at Lenfest.

For the W&L Record

8 On March 11, 1944, The Columns recorded the topic
for debate at the week’s Forensic meeting was the contro-
versial discussion that compulsory birth control should
be adopted by the federal government. The speaker for
the affirmative argued that forced birth control was the
only way to arrest the deterioration of the human race.
The target of the federally monitored project would be
the “degenerate peoples” of the United States. In one
generation, the speaker for the affirmative stated, 36
percent of the “ineffectives” in the American population
would be reduced. The dissenting speaker argued that
compulsory birth control was undemocratic, and it
would cause an increase in sex delinquency by interfer-
ing with the normal human habit pattern. Following the
discussion an affirmative vote supporting the argument
of compulsory birth control was recorded.

On March 15, 1969, then “Today” show host Hugh
Downs, of “20/20” fame, was announced by The Ring-
tum Phi to be the addressor at the Phi Beta Kappa
convocation in Lee Chapel on April 12. The topic of
Downs’ speech was to be “The Role of Communication
in Human Affairs” and was open to the public. After his
speech, Downs was to be initiated into W&L’s Virginia
Gamma chapter of the national honorary fraternity.

On March 15, 1984, the Phi reported the Washington
and Lee Faculty Calendar Committee voted to retain the
12-12-6 undergraduate calendar. They also voted to
extend class periods to 55 minutes each, to have a one
week vacation after six weeks of class in the fall term, and
to require returning students to register for the entire
following academic year in the preceding spring.

A student poll taken by student representatives to the
Executive Committee stated that out of 165 responses,
140 were in favor of the 12-12-6 term, 19 were opposed,
and six had no opinion.

On March 16, 1989, the Phi reported that 19-year-old
freshman Mary Ashley Scarborough of Raleigh, N.C.,
was killed in a hit-and-run accident on East Washington
Street.

Scarborough was found lying in the street in front of
the Lexington Police Department about 2:10 a.m. on the
morning of the Phi ’s release. There was some debris
from an automobile on the scene, and it was determined
the car that killed Scarborough was metallic blue in color,
but at press time, the police had no suspects. Scarborough
was a Chi Omega pledge. Her sister had been killed the
year before when the car she was a passenger in was hit
by a drunk driver.

Compiled by JAY WHITE of the Phi staff

 

PAGE 4

off the mark

 

 

by Mark Parisi

W&LIF E

  

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18,1994 ;_.

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

TH/N65 ARE some To BE so
MUCH NICER Now 7HAT w£’vE HAD

 

by Jeff MacNelly

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 10
1 Aquatic plant
5 Untied ‘5
10 Movie dog ,9
14 Peruse
15 Lothario
16 villainous look
17 — uncertain
terms
18 "Dallas" family
name
19 Augury
20 Comic verse
22 Dog
24 Mob or lob end
25 Lodz native
26 Perfume lrom
petals
29 Increase
31 Precious stone
34 — in (intruded)
36 Trust

 

37 Hatchet kin

38 lroquoian

39 Musical drama

41 Discharge

42 Apex

43 Ripens © 4 T a ne Media Services. Inc.  
44 Make changes “'9 “95€“'°°
46 Sault — Marie Last week’s puzzle solved
47 Tills 8 Poetic time of
49 Leases day

50 Tolerate 9 Priest's

51 Hangout neckwear

53 Overseas 10 Without help
56 Fortunate one 11 Hall: prel.

60 lncline 12 Adolescent

61 Legal right 13 Eng. composer
63 Inlormation 21 Raison d'—-

64 Whittle 23 Associate

65 Old weapon 25 Equal

66 Completed 26 Helps out

67 Excel 27 Card used in
68 Urged (with on) lortunetelllng

69 Hackman or 28 Poppycock!

 

  
  

 

   
  

 

0

rr comes win; 0‘

AN EXTENDED‘ _ ' 93’
WAKRANTK an A r I

 
    

I DOUBT ‘(OWN-
NEEV IT.

 

Dave by David Miller

  

  

 
 

I
Services, lnc_/ o
LsReserved. ’

DAKLA €EEl<§ RELATIONSHIP LINDERETANVING

  

    
 

WHY I6 HE

' @1994 Tribune Media
‘ Pluggers, Inc. All Riglt

3-re '

  

90 tr~l€EN§lTlVE To

   

I HAD To WATCH
WHAT QHE WANTED
To wATcH...FOR A
WHOLE Houl2/

BECAUSE

    
 
   
 

NO WAY.’
- LET '5 HAVE

 

ulzelxll l-\i\\<BlNé‘El<
at ;t’\<\Né...

NON (§l3QUlTUll

9* §

\VlL"=:’J/

..,—/
\\/ll:-_E}6/924 row-/=1‘-ms.-rm asr wzrrszs cease

   
      
 

   

ANOTHEK

    
 

 

N°\\‘ ‘r.—\.AT You N\ENT\ot~l \-r,
11 was \90t< ix L\'\'TLE
Lug; \_c»\)\g_T\AE—éTooL\E.,.

    

  

 
 
 
 
 
  

 

°’o'0o~

gluon...

R5MEMB5R,A'l‘l’lLA,lF slou
CANT SN? SOMETHING
MOE ABOUT someeowe... l

  
 

 

    
  

l'M GONNA TRY

THIS NEW VOiCE- <
ACTIVATED -

PHONE CARD...

 

COLLECT!

 

 
        
  
 

  

NO, I WON'T
ACCEPT THE.
Cl-lARGES._

CALL...
HOME...

  
    
 

   
 
  
 
 

 

     

    
  

Kelly 30 Extract by lorce
DOWN 3; ttjivimnv _ '

$35111???‘ °°w' §§’s‘5’.‘?n‘iL."f.1'Z§ 03/W94

3 Srir-e-etl%rroawl)on 40 :i1rFO‘lle for one 2
Z's:::l.l..  9 ﬁééiliils  :3 22:25:: 6 2?  SHO “‘°“"E“"
92§r'l§l‘§3Z'Lnangs 3§il:§3.'n§|§éa°a i'i3¥£°”"‘a'"5  iE'c’i3'Fmnara by J8/M730/V9//.V .E 

0 O C anne —- BVIS USlC0 \
1 Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination. Apartment forRent
gag? '¢ Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only. 4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, Washer & dryer, Some utilities included.
zed“ 5 Within walking distance from campus. 2 1/2 m1'1e5YVeSt0ft0W,“-only $175 Per bedroom-
_f‘ "1" call 4633835. Inquire at Kelly S Corner 463-5452
MM ’  /A Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. 2000 i.
Saturday M0ming- Al1U Can Eat Pancakes sq. ft. 4 bedrooms - can hold up to 6 people. Valley  
Dan)’ SP°°ia1-S‘ 24 H°“"A‘DaY Breakfast Fireplace wood stove refrigerator ceiling fans HARDWARE stones 
Meal‘ Th“ Cate’ ‘O BigAPPe’i‘es ’ and huge bar. Secluded location about 3 miles 3 _
Bmaﬂastﬁuﬂet from town. Rent $200/ erson re ardless of Hardware, Paint, and Related Items 9
num er 0 peop e . eau 1 u view. arge yar —
b f 1 ) B if 1 ' gL d

 

Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m.
Sunday 9 a.m.-2 p.m.
i Rt. 11 North 463-3478 Open 24 Hours

 

employment available. For
"‘ ‘ /7 employment program call:
 . .0 ’ V g ‘ "_ ' Cruise Emplo_t/1nent Services
  I/‘§’_/:_‘_/I V (206) 634-0468 ext.C5342
-....- .— He
SIOHEWEII SQUHTE Shopping CEHIET ,
Lexlngton,VA
463-9800

New Music EOE this

Bad Company - Dangerous Age

Cell - Living Room

Motley Crue - Self Titled
Sammy Hagar - Unboxed
Muddy Waters - One More Mile
Howlin’ Wolf - Ain’t Gonna be Your Dog

and many more!



Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat 103-m--11 p-ma

Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

 

 

with ball field. Call Nate or Lewis for more
info, 463-6337 Home (804) 886-0614

     

Students Needed!
Eam 32,000+ per month + world
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.) working for
Cruise Ships or Tour Companies.
Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time

 

 

»  Americ an
'1  Red Cross

RE A RED CROSS VOLUNTEER

"1

 

    

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

For Rent

A 3-Bedroom a artment
with washer (1 er,

distance of WSLL. For
information, call 463-7690

dishwasher; within walking "

TIE TRAVEL

703-463-2 197

   
  
 
  
 

Come See us.
for Our Spring Break
Specials

 

16 W. Washington St.’
texinglon, VA 24450

0

  

~ - -~.- ~. 1-— ».—..«~

 

    
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

0

UDCHAVIS, from page 1

go in the library. So I went in the
libr ry and demanded a book, and the
liblgry called the police. They also
called my parents, who stood with me.”

“On that day, the library was inte-
grated. All my friends who were stand-
ing outside, looking in the windows,
they came in and got a book also,”
Ch vis said.
fter that first step in his civil rights
career, Chavis went on to work with
the NAACP, the Congress on Racial
Equality, the Southern Christian Lead-
ership Conference, and the American
Federation of State, County, and Mu-
nici al Employers. Chavis received
his .A. from the University of North
Carolina and his M.Div. from Duke
University. Chavis is an ordained min-
ister of the United Church of Christ and
was the executive director and CEO of
the Commission for Racial Justice of
the United Church of Christ before his
NAQCP appointment.

In 1971, Chavis was wrongfully
accused of inciting a riot over a school
desegregation case in Wilmington,
North Carolina. He and nine others,
collectively the “Wilmington Ten,”
were jailed for four years until a court
ovgumed the convictions and freed
Chavis and the others. Amnesty Inter-
national called the Wilmington Ten
“the first group of political prisoners
held in the US.”

Prison only deepened Chavis’ de-
tennination.

‘What we decided was that if the
state was going to put us in prison for
ﬁghting segregation outside of prison,

 

the prison.”

“They put us in 10 different prisons.
I guess they thought that by spreading
us ‘put, we wouldn’t have contact with
on another...By spreading us out in 10
different prisons, that gave us 10 dif-
ferent places to organize,” he said.

CD&P helpsstudents with job

we would just take that fight inside of ‘

he Rirgwtum Phi, March 18, 1994

Chavis finished his master’s degree
from inside his maximum—security
prison cell.

Since his release, Chavis, in his
fight for civil rights, has broken new
ground by identifying the phenomenon
of environmental racism.

“This simply means that racial and
ethnic, particularly African-American
and Latino—American residents are dis-
proportionately exposed to environ-
mental hazards,” he said.

In 1987, Chavis commissioned a
study to examine the relationship be-
tween the race of particular areas and
toxic waste locations. After checking
every zip code, the study showed a
“direct correlation between the race of
the community and the location of toxic
waste sites...We checked for geogra-
phy, for geology, and other factors.
But race proved to be the most determi-
native factor in the location of toxic
waste sites. And that’s why we came
up with the term ‘environmental rac-
ism.”’

President Clinton has recognized
the environment as a means of possible
racial discrimination.

“Three weeks ago,” Chavis told the
audience at Lee Chapel, “President
Clinton signed an executive order on
environmental justice, the first time in
the history of the United States that the
President signed an order saying that
the rights of minorities have to be
equally enforced when it comes to en-
vironmental law.”

Chavis said he sees this as an im-
provement over civil rights policies of
past administrations.

“We could not get [the Reagan and I

Bush administrations] even to admit”
to the problems of environmental rac-
ism, Chavis said.

Chavis said he feels the Clinton
administration deserves a “B+” thus
far for its civil rights policies.

“We’re hoping to work with the
administration so that one day it can
get an ‘A.”’

NAACP head giveeech in Lee Chapel

The Re-employment Act of 1994 beoneofourtoppriorities. Twenty,30
will beastep in the right direction, said years ago, that was not the case. The

Chavis. case then was
“In our com—  political em-
munities, there is powerment, get-
3 ‘°‘ °f j°b‘°S.5‘ What we ’re concerned “"3 P“°P“"
ness. Insomec1t- _ _ elected to of-
ies, African- about today is the quality fice,” he said.
American male d . h Althoughthe
unemployment is ofe “canon t at every goalsmaydiffer,

between 60 and
70 percent. So
what happens is
the young men
wind up in jail,
the state prison
system, or in the
morgue...Wewill
support any fed-

eral programs that discrimination,”
would provide matter what ethnicity, he said. ’
jobs.” In additionto
The NAACP the economy,
applauds the   Chavis stressed

Clinton adminis-
tration for its appointment of blacks to
governmental offices.

“During 1993, the Clinton adminis-
tration appointed more African—Ameri-
cans and other minorities to cabinet-
level and sub-cabinet level positions
than any other president in the history
of the United States,” he said.

Furthermore, Chavis said, the posi-
tions filled by blacks in this adminis-
tration were not the conventional black
positions.

“Traditonally we always get HUD
or HEW. This time, the president
nominated African-Americans for sec-
retary of agriculture, secretary of com-
merce, secretary of energy, the admin-
istration of Veterans Affairs, and on
and on,” he said.

Chavis, himself in his first year of a
new position, has new goals for the
NAACP. The civil rights issues being
fought for today differ from those the
organization fought for in its early years.

“We are determined that economic
development, economic empowerment

student gets. We believe
our nation should have a
good public school system

that provides ‘the best
education to every child,
no matter what race, no

the basic objec-
tive remains the
same, said
Chavis.
“Ourmission
in 1994 is the
same as it was in
1909, and that is
to fight racial

education as a
priority of the NAACP.

“What we’re concerned about to-
day is the quality of education that
every student gets. We believe our
nation should have a good public school
system that provides the best education
to every child, no matter what race, no

- matter what ethnicity. And until we get

to that point, our society is going to be
in trouble.”

“The NAACP opposes the
privatization of schools. The reason
why we oppose it is because it will set
up...an educational apartheid where
only the privileged will get a good
education, and those that are less privi-
leged will get only a mediocre educa-
tion, and a couple won’t get an educa-
tion at all,” said Chavis.

Another objective for Chavis in-
cludes “focusing on the youth, the youth
leadership development, doing some-
thing about gangs and drugs.” Chavis
wants to attract younger members to
the NAACP.

“When I came into this job last year,

Search

the average age of an NAACP member
was 58 years old, so obviously there
was some generational gap. We are
closing that gap so it can be a much
more intergenerational organization,”
he said. '

And it’s working. Younger people
are joing the NAACP “in the tens of
thousands,” said Chavis. Overall mem-
bership has grown by 20 percent in the
past year alone. Chavis also wants to
reach out to other people of color such
as Native Americans and Latino-
Americans.

“We are having record numbers of
Latino-Americans as well as Asian
Americans as well as Native Ameri-
cans. We’re truly becoming a multi-
racial civil rights organization,” he said.

These many new aims of the
NAACP have caused Chavis’ critics to
believe he is taking on too many re-
sponsibilities. Chavis himself admits
“my plate is full,” but does not agree
with them.

“The people that say that underesti-
mate our capacity...I’m an activist.
Therefore I’m not just going to del-
egate authority. I’m going to go out
there and do it myself.”

“When I was elected last year, I told
the board of directors I was prepared to
make a lifelong commitment to the
NAACP, seven days a week, 24 hours
a day. And that’s what happened. It’s
because of our hitting the ground run-
ning that we’ve made such tremendous
progress,” he said.

Another Chavis, long ago, made it
his mission also to advance and edu-
cate African-Americans. John Chavis,
Benjamin ’s great great grandfather, was
the first black to ever graduate from
this university, then WashingtonAcad-
emy. After his graduation, John Chavis
tutored both blacks and whites. Even
when the teaching of blacks was out-
lawed, Chavis did not stop and was
murdered for his work. The Chavis
House on campus is named after him.

“Black students who come to W&L

    

PAGE 5

do not see many African-Americans in
some of the top positions,” said Chavis.
“That in itself would cause African-
Americans to unite among themselves
because they feel there is no point of
relevance in terms of the large univer-
sity.”

In an interview, Chavis addressed
the recent turmoil over Louis
Farrakhan, a prominent leader of the
Nation of Islam and member of the
NAACP, who recently caused contro-
versy with anti-semitic remarks.
Farrakhan called Judaism a “gutter
religion” and Jews “bloodsuckers.”
Chavis voiced his disapproval of
Farrakhan’s remarks.

“The movement for justice in the
United States as well as throughout the
world is based on the principles of love
and mutual respect. You can’t build a
movement on hatred and bigotry.
That’s one of the things we learned
from the civil rights movement. Even
when we had hardships, and tear gas,
dogs biting us, people spitting on us,
we knew that two wrongs don’t make a
right...We cannot tolerate violence.”

“A lot of people think that if you
join the movement, you have to break
rules, you have to break regulations,”
Chavis said in his concluding remarks
to the audience in Lee Chapel. “You
don’t have to do that...It’s how you live
your life.”

“The role of the student on a cam-
pus like Washington and Lee’s is very
important. The vitality of the move-
ment in the ’60s came from students.
The question is, as we face the 21st
century, can we depend on this genera-
tion of students to rise to the occasion,
to rally forth for justice and equality?”

“What we need to do is to learn how
to hold hands again, with one another,
going someplace. We need to...send a
message to all the forces of evil, to all
the forces of bigotry and hatred, that
they will not be tolerated, that we must
march on...until every child is treated
equally and fairly in our midst."

00000000000000000000’

Read

 

I->CDP, from page 1

ployers in their field.

“You’re not going to find these other em-
ployment sectors represented in on-campus
recruitment, [but] it is an error to draw the
coﬁtlusion to say that there aren’t jobs in those
fields,” she said.

Lorig said the CD&P office receives the
latest information from job-listing services
that show openings in other fields that are not

‘C-%l:‘l:“®@l§i.&R§ The Push.
Album (Hoist) does not
come out until Tuesday,

§Mai°eli 29th (Sorry Guys!)

represented in the on-campus interviews.

In addition, the CD&P office has informa-
tion on job fairs throughout the year that can
give students an opportunity to look at a variety
of employers quickly.

Lorig said seniors can participate in pro-
grams such as the Selective Liberal Arts Con-
sortium, or SLAC. She saidCD&Pparticipates

K and develops employer participation.

“Through that program, our students have
an opportunity to interview in locations around

5

0000090

the country with a much larger representation
of employment ﬁelds,” Loring said.

She added that each year seniors participate
in job fairs at other area institutions such as the
University of Virginia.

Lorig said traditionally “employers are ex-
tremely pleased with graduates that they get
from Washington and Lee.”

She said, however, there is a gradual shift
occurring now from on-campus recruitment to
other methods that are more efficient.

“It’s wise of us to anticipate the change in
recruitment that’s taking place and to really
plan a strategy that will address the changing
recruitment needs of employers,” she said.

She stressed the change in recruitment is
focusing on the method of recruitment and not
the hiring needs of employers.

“It will be important for our office to de-
velop a strategy to learn of openings available
to seniors and to articulate a: method by which

employers and students can come together}? .. ._
‘ -4 4 -1-ﬁg;-.. .

Kauai it It»!

{NIGHT OWL lvlilslc co?

  
  
   

 

 ,\§at11tttag- Qlgria Antenna

EEIIIIIE at tile 2lRﬁiIlIJE1III mm Qjtmllttttz
,.. Ejrilllltg- Era Aritlgltr

the

comics
  ﬁlm

'D000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000.000000000000000000000000000

11l(7 .“1l'l§l|Ill'/71;

House for Rent -
Four Bedroom, Two Bath
Located Along Rt. 11 - 7 miles south of

      

   

   

   

 

' 25 5- -ftffferson 464-4050 m_;;74 52 Emma ﬁlm-M {Em mtg-[lg lmigﬂjlt Lexington; available June 1. $880 per
Open 11 a.m. til 7 p.m. Monday — Friday, , Q , th C 11 464 4791‘ -
Saturday ll a.m. — 5 p.m. fnuhtl 15 35" N2’ 9231” =' Eﬂllllﬁlﬁ mm. & (§ﬁl'l’.. llllllgﬂgilﬁ mon a ' anyt1me°
Self Stora e N ow
Resmy ,3 f OP“? Apartments for Rent GOING OUT OF
our unl now or summer mont s
E 1 while available. 2, Bedrooms BUSINESS
9 xce lent location in Downtown Lexington —
Basement of Domino ’s Pizza   
Catering to W&L students, walk to storage from ’
 , Call 463-1521 . CRAFTS PLUS, INC.
a “"aS°“*C‘;"e 108W ratesgjby mznﬂll Or Yeah GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES
en a.m. - . . ' ° -
by Eppoimmem OPn‘§anfr‘d§’y Domestic Work Wanted Everythmg Marked Down
Sizes from 4'X8' to 8'X12'. LOW Studefnt Rates  %
For More In ormation
I .
. Call Mrs. Brown, property manager P133153  Trains, Games, Models, Beads, Basket Making Supplies,
C&1 Associates _ 4633013 Lorraine Alexander Doll Parts. Much More In Craft and Hobby Supplies.
H after 5 p.m. (703) 934-9402 464-9074“ 0W‘ M°'"‘aY “W S“‘“"‘f‘Y “*5
. . ' . Lexington 463-3355
W References Available 31 S Ma” St’ 
I

 OVt3 . A ' 1‘:1ZZZIZ1Z11Z$ZZZZZZ$ZZZ1
C Do You Want-VlSA & MasterCard Credit Cards? : EZ-CARE BOX 16515- A'“-ANT» GA 30321 :
_ Now Showing _ ....,.....:‘:.‘:..l°.;'..‘:.‘:.'.:*:',:.“:.:.:l.$r..":.°:;:.=:.°s.'‘::°..‘:.°.:.': : YES! mmws»/msrmamc-an 1
credit cairds..“tn your mmc.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Canjsappmved |mmcd|at¢ly_ . 100% nuAnAN1'£E|)| I

" Iron&WI)ll CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . , .
Daily 7:00 . 9:3 ‘ p.m.' “SAG d ‘Card h Rd ard ' '

8* &$:33*;%l% em  - NAME '
Rated PG EMERGENCY CASH—TlCKE-‘I-S—RESTAURAN'l‘S: : ADDRESS :

H. wayngfg Wm-|d 2 REPAlPl;ors-r-E:AINSl)_ 1}:1oog5lLl.T)_v(<:)AuSl;(c:lI2\ERoRr!r:ri’2'rAnNol : CITY STATE __ZIP :

Dally 7.15&9.40 p.m.  Yes "0 SS’

Sat.& 2:45,4:50, ‘u "0 turn dmms! ‘ : _ _____..___. . :
‘Rated     '  I registered trademark d‘ Matcioud lntcmatloml. Inc '

261 -7292 V‘;,,uIuc ,‘ ct“ SEND THE COUPON TODAY" I Visa Isl ieglstemd tiadcnnrkdvlsn USA. lnclnd VISA lntrmtlor-ial I

£2375 BeechAve-.Buena\ﬁ@ I-e|'nI'Cd|‘d- Youn CREDIT CARDS ARE llAlTlm;! : _ _ _ :

  
  
  
   

     
     
     

  
 

 

 

 

 

   
 

    

PAGE 6

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Time for a change

Last week in this space we talked about one of the White
Book Review Committee’s proposed changes to the Honor
System. This week we would like to talk about two of the
other proposed changes. Some people might say we are
harping on the proposed White Book changes, but we think
these changes are so important there could never be too much
discussion about them. ,

Last week the Executive Committee had two meetings
which revolved around the proposed changes. One of the
proposed changes that received heated debate was the sug-
gestion that would change the makeup of the investigative
team for a potential honor violation. Currently the investiga-
tive team is made up of two EC representatives and a member
of the student body at large. If passed, the proposal would
create an investigative team of one EC member, one student
from the pool of law advocates and one member of the student
body at large.

Another WBRC proposal would prevent the EC member
of the investigative team from voting in the subsequent
proceedings. In their report the WBRC says the reason for the
proposals is to boost student confidence in the Honor System.
Some members of the WBRC and the EC recognize that
students believe there is the potential for bias when an
investigator also votes on the innocence or guilt of someone ,
accused. But when EC President Robert Tompkins took an
unofficial vote (not all EC members were present at the
meeting) the proposal failed.

These proposed changes make perfect sense. By having an
EC member and someone from the advocate pool conduct the
investigation the EC would still retain the level of experience
in honor situations that the current investigative team has.
But students believe the current investigating system leaves
the door open for bias to interfere in the hearing of someone
accused of an honor violation. And they may have good
reason to feel that way. When investigators are asked to
check out the facts in a potential honor case, they are looking
for red ﬂags that indicate an honor violation has occurred.
These facts are reported back to the EC. Later on, these same
people who examine the facts of the case most likely go into
an honor trial with their minds made up. This is a major
problem students have with the Honor System. When stu-
dents see there is potential for bias in the system, they lose
faith in it.

If students do not have faith in our Honor System we might

as well not have one. If simple changes, such as these, would , ,

increase student faith in the Honor System, then the EC
should be jumping at the chance to pass them. Some EC
members will say that changing the makeup of the investiga-
tive team is not feasible. They will tell you there are not
enough law advocates to fill the increased demand. They will
tell you it might present a problem with confidentiality. They
will tell you they would rather keep it the way it is. Why? We
cannot say for sure. What is clear is this pair of amendments
to the White Book would boost confidence in the Honor
System and eliminate bias, real or imagined, from the honor
hearing process.

The EC cannot believe its members are extra-human. They
are no more capable of being perfectly objective than anyone
else. What the EC should be striving for is getting as much
subjectivity out of the honor process as possible. To do that
they need to make sure investigators do not vote in honor
hearings.

The White Book Review Committee is doing its job well.
The members are trying their best to sell the revisions to the
EC. The committee has already advised the EC that the
problem with bias in the investigative process was cited often
in their survey of the student body. In fact, it was cited more
than any other problem. The EC needs to recognize that and
correct the problem.

@112 iliiing-tum iﬁlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hillary Olson, Melissa Sawyer

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I(evin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-rum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ringium Phi, March 18, 1994 3.’

   

 

   
    
  
   
   

0
yw 6Wb€'*T$ WW Eur for ‘s not’ or miss, ‘
Klrllt THE "Ab6l:l'N(r- rgog. war./6 V 50:45 hempntg-,,;,,5
lﬁflllflm N» De(,t\>é1> Tb LEA E HAVE to BE Mtbe
T‘ CW5 17°“ z»us+(Me»r or us use rue,
ggn’ °”CA”(‘r°H‘1E to Ben‘; i'I0\l$lN(r llouslw corms
“5 ‘’ ooze *
$MOKlt~l\r
DOPE . ..
I
at
l I.‘_
-Jléﬁl ‘  " P
Q

Sexism hurts practicer and victim’

In honor of Women’s History Month, the 10 year
study on women at W&L and the women who have
succeeded in the good old boys club of American
clubs of American politics, I want to dedicate this

column to sexism. I do not
want to preach to anybody

workplace. This does not

about why it is wrong to dis-

criminate against women, if
you don’t know that by now,

my saying so won’t make a

difference. Instead, I thought

I would point out some ex-

amples of sexism both in the.
real walla‘ aridat W&L 
after all awareness of the prob-

lem is’n"e‘cessary for change.

There are numerous examples of sexism in the
world-at-large. For example, some of the negative
perceptions of Hillary Clinton stem from the fact that
she is an independent, strong-willed woman. Another
example of sexism was brought to my attention about
two weeks ago. Someone I know decided to get a
tattoo. A major difficulty for her was deciding where

to put it.

In the business world a woman with a tattoo will be
discriminated against since a tattoo is not considered
proper on a woman. She decided against her ankle (it
could be seen if wearing stockings) and her shoulder
(seen if wearing some dresses). Finally she decided on
her upper thigh since that would generally eliminate
any chance of it being accidentally seen. A man would
probably not have to worry about all of that, in part
because of differences in clothing; but, also because
getting a tattoo could be considered a sign of man-
hood, sort of like the branding that some fraternities
engage in. Sexism can be seen in the first question she
was asked, “Were you drunk?” as if no rational
woman would ever get a tattoo. Obviously there is a

double standard at work here.

There are many legitimate cases of sexism in the

 

ing criminals. ,

Would it have been said she was gay if she were a
man with these same characteristics? 1 interned for
two male felony attorneys and the office atmosphere

was generally relaxed.
However, after the Will-
iam Kennedy Smith trial,
when sexual harassment
received a lot of media
coverage, the atmosphere
changed. There was more
tension in the air between
the secretaries and the law-
yers, even though nothing
that could be considered
harassment occurred.
Imagine the problems in a
place where there is ac-

hurts everybody in the office because there is more
tension in the atmosphere. During my senior year in
high school I interned at the state attomey’s office in
Miami. The state attorney at
thetime waslanet Reno, now
attorney general of the United
States. Although respected,
she was not immune from
discrimination; some people
said she was a lesbian be-
cause she was single, because
of the way she looked, and
how successful and deter-
mined she was in pursuing’
her policies and prosecut-

tual harassment or discrimination. If women were
considered equals in both thought and action this
tension might not have appeared.

So what does this have to do with W&L? When I
tell people where I go to school, I usually give them a
brief little history of the school since some of them

just hurt the victim, it also

have never heard of W&L. I include the fact that the
school was all-male until a few years ago. People
sometimes say there must be a lot of discrimination
at such a traditionally male school. Usually, I s9y
there is not a lot
except the social scene, where fraternities domi-
nate everything.

This is not to say that there are no problems. I
have been advised against taking certain profes-
sors’ classes because they discriminate against
women. Personally, I have never experienced thit,
but I know it does happen. For example, there is a
professor who when he is in office with the door
closed, if almale student comes to speak to him, he
will not even"notice whether the door is open or
closed; but, if the student is female, he will imme-

of obvious discrimination

diately prop the door open. It is these subtle actions

C(

There are many legitimate cases
of sexism in the workplace. This
does not just hurt the victim, it also
hurts everybody in the oﬂice be-
cause there is more tension in the

atmosphere.

that people would normally ignore that point out ﬁe
inequalities in estimation of men and women.
So what has been the point of these paragraphs?

It is to promote aware-
ness about the actions
that can indicate dis-
crimination and the
problems that these ge-
tions can prc duce. I
don’t think people can
be forced to change; but,
if they are aware, per-
haps they will think
twice before doing
something.Thisdoesn’t
mean we should all e-
come PC; I am certainly

not, but I still say “mankind” meaning both men
and women, instead of peoplekind, among other
PC violations.

Perhaps by realizing what sexism is, a future
politician can be prevented from becoming another
Bob Packwood. .

Don’t be quick to judge Whitewater

August 9, 1974: a day thatwill live in
infamy. Not for you? Well, if the impor-
tance of that date has slipped your mind,
allow me to refresh your memory. It was
on that day roughly 20 years ago that
President Richard Nixon, having an-

struction of the Clinton administra-
tion is highly premature. Most Ameri-
cans, indeed most journalists, have a
very tenuous grasp on even the allega-
tions involved in Whitewater. And
cases involving the misuse of inﬂu-

 
 

nounced his ence, as
decision to Watergate
resign the proved,areal-
presidency ways hard to
the day be— crack. It may
fore, boarded . even be that
his Marine ’ NICHOLAS L‘ these charges
helicopter I WADDY, ’96 are without
and ﬂew off A any reason-
(afterarather . able founda-
pathetic Vic; —— 'tion. Ju1st}t{e-
ory wave causet e e-
intothesun- publicans

set of American politics.

The reason we bring up Nixon, of
course, is because of Watergate, the
scandal —— indeed, the word “scandal”
seems inappropriate to describe such a
complex sequence of events —— that
brought him down. It is now the hope or
fear of many that the same fate might
befall the Administration of Bill Clinton.
The Whitewater scandal bears many
striking similarities to Watergate (and
I’m not just thinking of the fact that both
contain the word “water”). Probably
one of Watergate’s most defining char-
acteristics, and one which we may see
mirrored in Whitewater, is explosive
power. Watergate started small, but it
built up slowly and steadily until it
achieved its objective: the punishment
of notable wrongdoers, including the
President himself. The same thing
could be in store for President Clinton.
So goes the conventional wisdom, at
any rate.

For a number of reasons, I think this
speculation about the impending de-

seem to smell blood does not neces-
sarily mean that even they believe
deep down that Bill Clinton has done
anythinggenuinely wrong; they could
easily be using this fiasco for political
advantage only.

Additionally, even if laws were
broken in the Whitewater case, and
even if a huge and well-publicized
Congressional investigation of the
presidency is launched, the toppling
of the Clinton administration would
hardly be assured. There is‘ precedent
in Richard Nixon for the resignation
of a president, but this was (quite
obviously) an isolated case. Also re-
member that the Iran-Contra Affair
showed all the signs‘ of being an ex-
plosive, presidency-breaking scandal
at one point, but the lack ofconclusive
evidence, combined with a short at-
tention span on the part of the Ameri-
can public, insured that president

‘Reagan (like most Presidents whose

basic right to be in power comes under
question) would eventually survive

and move on. Reagan left office an
extremely popular man, much to the
chagrin of many of his opponents in the
media who tried their best to use Iran-
Contra against him.

There is another interesting ques-
tion involved in this whole business,
though. Many Americans don’t seem
to be particularly surprised at the fact
that their president is accused of using
his inﬂuence for his own personal proﬁt.
In the cynical view of many, all politi-
cians are guilty of such dishonest deal-
ings. Many seem also to reach the con-
clusion that the whole Whitewater scan-
dal is irrelevant, since we should posi-
tively expect such things to go on even

government as little more than a body
of swindlers, surely on a deeper le9el
many of us realize that many people
get into politics with a desire to serve
mankind. Perhaps their initial idealism
is often muted by the cut-and-thrust of
partisan politics, but the optimist in me
clings to the impression that even the
seemingly most pragmatic of pol!i-
cians is still moved on some level by a
desire to make the world a better place
-— not perfect, but better. If, then,
politicians are not uniformly amoral,
and I do not think that they are, then we
should feel obliged to view scandal-
mongers with some suspicion. 0
And even I, an unrepentant reac-

at the highest tionary, will
levels. Politics concede that
and lyingare in- Bill Clinton has
separable, so  his principles,
they say. . too.ldidn’tvote
h Czrtainly Even if laws were bro- for him, ancbl
t ere oesseem - - never will; but
to be quiteabit ken In the Whltgwater as for White-
of dishonesty case, and even if a huge water, I shall
‘and generally and we”_publicized C0n_ give him the

indecent con-

gressional investigation

benefit of the

duct among doubt until it is
high officialsin ofthe Presidency is conclusiv

theAdministra- I h d   proven to me
tionandinCon- aunc e 2 t etopp "lg of that he did

gress. Double-

the Clinton administra-

something

talk and “cre- ' wrong. And cer-
ative thinking” "on would hardly be tainlylshall not
are and have al- assured» fill my head with
ways been   wild dreams f

properties of

even the most

respected governments. But I think it
would be overly cynical to conclude
that expecting a little virtue in Con-
gress is unreasonable, or that politi-
cians and principles necessarily never
mix. Much as we may profess to see

impeachme t

and disgrace:
that would be as unfair as it is unrealis-
tic. We need not descend like a pack of
dogs on every politician who is ac-
cused of misdeeds; we should, in-
stead, let the machinery of justice run
its course. . '

 

Q

, he Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994

OPINION

 allen stars give you the future

I R_EAM LAND
Richard Weaver

My fraternity brothers and I are the

-= rget of many bizarre things that come

. the mail to our house every day. The
0st disturbing thing we’ve seen in a
i ng Eme came recently, and, of course,
read it. This disturbing thing was the
pril issue of Horoscope Guide.
If you have your own subscription,
nd I have offended you, please don’t
nd the Witches of Salem Network

fter me. The witches advertise a con-

ultirg service for $3.99 a minute out
f Salem, Massachusetts in Horoscope
uide. Spokeswoman Brigitte Nielsen
~ ylvester Stallone’s very talented and
11 ex—wife) says, “Feel the POWER
the World’s Oldest and Most Gifted
sychics,” Brigitte does not say 1) She
. a wﬁch 2) She has felt the POWER of
e Witches of Salem Network 3) What
er parents must be thinking about
w, or 4) She is really embarrassed to
'nk so low to be doing this. I guess the
: swer is left for us to ask the witches

out for the very reasonable rate of $3.99
a minute also.

I have to wonder about the details of
all of these call-in psychic lines! Do
you think they give you five minutes
free for every hour you call? Or maybe,
they give you frequent calling points
that can be redeemed for a free out-of-
body trip to Hawaii? I think they should.

Now, for the discriminating cus-
tomer, Voodoo Queen Mumbasa is deﬁ-
nitely a step
up from La
Toya and
Brigitte. She
offers to cast
spells for ex-
ample for
“protection
from evil’’ and
“immediate
freedom from
pain” for a
moderate _CmW
$4.99 a » " ; m;‘m__£§’,;,.-1:312
minute.

According
to the Voodoo

Hirst Time: E

‘in x'\n'i.1;:rn‘1CI

No MQNE‘/« 1

be some pay-per-view event featuring
Brigitte Nielsen, La Toya Jackson, and
Voodoo Queen Mumbasa fighting it
out for the title of Supreme Astrology
Deity. The losers would receive lovely
sets ofluggage. Maybe they could get
Don King in on the deal and book
the event as an opening act for the
next really bad country concert at
the Pavilion.

Looking beyond the advertisements,
H 0 r 0 s c op e
Guide had
quite a bit of
useful written
material, such
as the riveting
“Don’t Turn
In—Laws Into
0 u t l a w s , ”
“Are You a
Party Per-
son?,” and the
Astrology Yel-
low Pages. Un-
f o r t u n a t e 1 y
there was no
how-to guide

Queen’s ad-

forbeing a psy-

classes and give out crystals instead of
grades. Graduates would receive a
B.B.S. — a Bachelor of B.S. degree.

We needn’t stop there in applying
psychic powers to the university. I
would advise the Presidential Search
Committee to utilize the Witches of
Salem Network to find a replacement
for President Wilson. In fact, I am
declaring publicly that I will pay for the
phone call if the committee wants me
to find out.

In the meantime, I decided to wait
no further in looking into the future of
Tom Hespos, a subject that endlessly
fascinates us all. The April issue of
Horoscope Guide features horoscopes
for all signs. Mr. Hespos’ birthday is
August 9 (write that down), which
makes him a Leo.

Checking the‘ Leo section, we ﬁnd
out that Mr. Hespos’ lucky colors for
the first week of April include Char-
treuse, Cerulean, Gamboge, Peach,
Avocado, Almond, and Silver. If you
see Mr. Hespos during the first week of
April please make sure he is wearing
the appropriate lucky color.

.hen we call.
N t to be outdone, my favorite
inger, La Toya Jackson, has her own
sychic consulting ﬁnn, Psychic Dis-
a veries. She says: “Whether You Seek
iuidance, or a Friend To Talk To, Our
orld Famous Psychics Are Avail-
ble 24 Hours a Day.” La Toya does
or say if she offers career advice or
vlastﬁ surgery advice, but you can find

vertisement, this is her first time ever in
America; she spent too much time in
the past being the “True Miracle-Maker
of the Caribbean.” I guess that is the
occupation the Voodoo Queen lists on
her tax forms, which I’m sure her up-
right and honest business pays in full
and in a timely fashion.

I would pay a lot of money, and I
would bet you would too, if there could

point.

chic, and this brings me to my next

I have to wonder: how does one
become a psychic? Is there some type
of licensing organization? Is there a
psychic competency test? Maybe we
could form a Department of Psychic
Studies here at Washington and Lee.
The department could levitate
Newcomb Hall and have telepathic

I bet you want to know your lucky
colors too. I would advise you to write
to the Leybum Library and urge them
to carry Horoscope Guide. Or better
yet, you can get your own subscription.
It really pays to get a subscription to a
magazine that lists its editors’ astro-
logical signs in the staff box. Call me if
you need the number, or better yet,
contact me telepathically.

I_.a Toya and I are waiting.

LETTERS

Kowaiczuk misses point of Black History Month

0 the editor:
I read with interest Chris Kowalczuk’s rebuttal to
atrick McDerrnott’s column in the March 4 edition
f Th Ring-tum Phi. He asks in wonder: “In any
vent, what exactly is Black History Month supposed
o accomplish?” Before I attempt to answer this
uestion, I will provide a brief history lesson for Mr.
owalczuk.

Black History Month originated from Black His-
ory Week, which was begun by Carter G. Woodson
n 1936. The purpose of this week was to celebrate the
ccomplishments and achievements of black Ameri-

ans. Eventually, the celebration was extended to a

onth, and_Feb,_ruary, was chosen to incorporate the

irthdays of Abraham Lincoln and Frederick
I ouglas.

I’m somewhat puzzled by Mr. Kowalczuk’s con-
entign that Black History Month “undermines any
egitimate attempt to purge racism from our culture.”

ow exactly does Black History Month “foster racial
ivision and animosity in this country?” The racial
trife we see in our country today has little to do with
‘lack History Month. Racism stems from hatred and
gnorance —— not from a single month. We celebrate
lac History Month because traditionally, the ac-
‘omp ishments of black Americans were excluded
rom American history texts. The names of W. E. B.
u Bois, Fannie Lou Hamer, Paul Robeson, Sojourner

l ruth and others were either left out of our textbooks
)r passed over quickly. We learned blacks were slaves
ut not inventors like Garret Morgan, Daniel Hale
illiams and Lewis Latimer. Black History Month
erveﬁ as an opportunity for people of all races to learn
2 bout the contributions blacks have made to America.

Yet, Mr. Kowalczuk finds it “highly ironic that we

s Americans find it desirable to devote an entire
onth to activities which select certain people for
adulation based purely on their race.” Mr. Kowalczuk
inds this thoroughly racist. However, Mr. Kowalczuk
ails R) understand the true meaning of racism. He is
‘orrect in stating that a “racist act is one motivated
urely by reasons of skin color.” Yet, racism goes
uch deeper than this narrow definition. Racism
stems from one race’s feeling of superiority over

another. Slavery and segregation were justified by a
belief that blacks were inferior to white people. Black
History Month says nothing about the superiority or
inferiority of any particular race. It’s simply a celebra-
tion of struggle and triumph.

The only problem I have with Black History Month
is that it is narrowed down to the shortest month of the
year. It simply gives people permission to celebrate
black culture for one month and then forget it for the
rest of the year. I find that aspect of Black History
Month insulting. Black history should be celebrated
everyday — not just for one month. Black history is
much broader than a month. It is much broader than
ideology. Mr. Kowalczuk’s idea that “purveyors of
‘black history’  forget about certain blacks of high
achievement but the wrong politics, such as Clarence
Thomas,” is wrong. If Mr. Kowalczuk would take a
serious look at black history, he would discover black
leaders often disagreed with each other about the
means of gaining freedom.

I would suggest Mr. Kowalczuk study the conﬂict
between W. E. B. du Bois and Booker T. Washington.
Washington emphasized the need for economic de-
velopment and industrial education while de-empha-
sizing the need for civil rights or equality. Du Bois,
however, stridently disagreed, as evidenced by his
bitter editorials in The Crisis. Yet, we still recognize
Washington’s remarkable achievements, particularly
the founding of Tuskegee, a historically black univer-
sity. Blacks are far from monolithic.

According to Mr. Kowalczuk, this “obsession with
skin color must stop if we are ever to achieve a racist-
free society.” I agree, but ending Black History Month
is not the way to achieve such a society. Yes, slavery
may be over, but it does not mean the racism which
justified the peculiar institution has been eradicated
from America.

We can hardly achieve a colorblind society by
pretending we already have one. To do so would be
analogous to curing a disease by pretending no dis-
ease exists. The first step in eliminating racism is to
expose it in all of its ugliness. The problem comes
when people refuse to even think about race.

Furthermore, racism can only be eliminated when

interviews and Photos
13 3: Joe Framptom

If you could give a prospective one reason Why he or she
' should come to W&L, What would it be?

- llen Flickinger, ’94, Ligonier,
l‘ enn. —- “To build loving, long-last-
ng relationships with the cheery la-
o ies in the registrar’s office.”

Tim Scott, ’95, Baltimore, Md. —
“Jim Beam.”

TALKBACK

people of all races respect different cultures and
backgrounds. Yet, Mr. Kowalczuk finds “diver-
sity” politically correct. He believes racial diversity
has no value. I believe it does.

Racial diversity and intellectual diversity should
not be separate. When you have people of different
ethnic backgrounds, there will obviously be differ-
ent points of view — even within the same ethnic or
racial background. In other words, there can be
both racial and intellectual diversity. Diversity is
simply what America has always been -— a mixture
of different ideas, cultures and peoples. Yet, Wash-
ington and Lee University is overwhelmingly domi-
nated by white males. That is no_,t.to say all white
males think alike; ‘ V ‘,  .  it

However, success in the workforce often de-
pends on how one deals with different types of
people. Meeting and interacting with people of
different backgrounds broadens rather than nar-
rows a person’s outlook on the world. I’m sure Mr.
Kowalczuk would agree that one’s education is not

' limited by the classroom. The experiences outside

of class are just as important.

Yes, Washington and Lee University “has a long
way to go when it comes to achieving diversity.”
Unlike Howard University, Washington and Lee,
for most of its history, only allowed privileged
white males to attend. Blacks were not allowed to
attend until the late ’60s. Women were not allowed
to attend W&L until 1985. Far from jumping on the
“blacks are victims” bandwagon, blacks do have a
separate set of obstacles to overcome on their way
to success — namely racism. I do not see that as
victimization but as an unfortunate aspect of
our society.

Mr. Kowalczuk, I submit that Black History
Month is not the cause of racial strife in our society.
The culture of silence and the covert racism that
permeates our society leads to racial animosity. In
order to eliminate racism, we must celebrate and
understand our differences and recognize our mu-
tual humanity.

Michael L. Hewlett, ’96

W&L-VMI

The Preston Society is a group
that helps W&L students and VMI
cadets to understand each other. We
meet at 6:55 p.m. on Wednesdays in
front of Lee Chapel and walk over to
VMI from there. Join us; all are
welcome. For more information call
Lisa Greenhouse at 462-4189 or Tom
Hespos at 464-1155.

Kids’ Place

Kids’ Place is looking for volun-
teers. Forms can be picked up and
dropped off at the Registrar’s Of-
fice. Construction begins April 20-
24. For more information, call Su-
san Dittman at 463-3488.

Envirogroup

Interested in local environmen-
tal issues? An environmental group
is forming on campus. There will be
an organizational meeting Tuesday,
March 22 at 7:30 p.m. in Howe
206B. Questions? Call Nova Clarke
at 462-4087. '

Hillel

Hillel is sponsoring a “Passover
Community Seder” for interested
W&L students, faculty, and staff on
Tuesday, March 29 at 6 p.m. in the
University Center, Room 114. Call
Karen Lyle at 463-8798 by Friday,
March 25.

0
Trip
Anyone planning on leaving for
Baltimore or Cleveland early in exam
week, please give me a call ASAP.

l’ll pay for gas. Sarah Drain — 464-
8690.

Big Sibling

Be a big brother or sister to an
incoming East Asian exchange stu-
dent. Please see Professor Rogers in
the East Asian language center for
details. " I '

' g o 1 . V
Admissions

The Admissions Office is now
accepting applications for an antici-
pated admissions counselorposition.
All interested graduating seniors
should submit a cover letter and
resume no later than Monday, March

21 to Julia M. Kozak, Associate
Director of Admissions.

"..-'r.

FD,

Forget to buy your FD shirt or
poster? Stop by the table outside the
Co-op. ‘

Calyx-

If you haven’t received your 1993
Calyx (from last year) please pick it
up at Carol Calkins’ office in the
University Center during normal
hours.

Collecting

If you are interested in corre-
sponding and trading postcards,
patches, lapel pins, etc., please con-
tact Sue Fitzpatrick, P.O. Box 2244,
Saratoga, CA 95070-0244.

. .
Ariel

The Ariel literary magazine is

now accepting submissions for the

1994 issue. Literary submissions
may be dropped off in envelopes in

Payne Hall, the Leyburn Library,

and the University Center. Any vi-
sual art submissions should be left
for Temple Cone, c/o Carol Calkins
in the University Center.

Writing

The Writing Center is open to

help students with papers and other
writing projects Sundays through
Thursday from 8-10 p.m. in Payne
2B. Most faculty members encour-
age their students to bring drafts to
the Center for help with revisions
before turning the paper in for a
grade.

Manager

Needed ASAP: Manager for the
1994 Women’s Lacrosse Team. If
interested,‘ ‘please contact Jan

~ Hathorrr at 462-8668 or\Sue Behme
. a,t4_62-8679., . ‘

Phi

The Ring—tum Phi holds its
storyboard meetings on Tuesdays
at 7 p.m. in room 208 in University
Center. All interested are invited to
attend.

Student Body Notice

The Student Conduct Committee has found four freshmen men in
violation of university standards for smoking marijuana in the dorms. The
following sanctions have been imposed on each:

1) 25 hours of community service.

2) 29 hours to the supplier of the marijuana.
3) Social probation for the rest of the semester.

4) Conduct probation.

Note: They have also been expelled from the dorms by the university.

Britt Seal, ’95, Chattanooga, Tenn. and David Fosgate, ’96, Atlanta, Ga.

—— “Big—time college football.”

Jake Blair, ’97, Woodbury, Conn.
—“You’ll come out knowing more.”

Josh Cook, ’95, Mars, Penn.—“I’m

sure they’d love the C-School.”

    

PAGE 8 :

MY VIEW

, Dennis Manning
 and Ken Ruscio

It is time to move fraternity rush
from the fall to the winter term.

Fall rush imposes too great a cost on
the university and the freshmen. It de-
stroys any sense of class unity, thereby
detracting from campus life and weak-
eningfuture ties -among alumni. It in-
terrupts the transition of freshmen to
the academic demands of Washington
and Lee. It results in too many hasty
commitments on the part of both frater-
nities and freshmen.

Washington and Lee is one of those
rare institutions which recognizes and
encourages education beyond the class-
room. But it is first and foremost an
academic institution. Our social, extra-
curricular, and co-curricular activities
must add to, not detract from, the mis-
sion of developing in our students the
“capacity anddesire to learn, to under-
stand, and to share the fruits of their
intellectual growth.” The fraternity
system has the potential to support the
mission. Fall rush does not.

We are defenders of the fraternity
system at Washington and Lee. We are
members of fraternities and serve
proudly as faculty advisers to two chap-
ters. Our call for winter rush is not
“anti-fraternity;” but we do concede
that our primary concern is the educa-
tion mission of the university and the
best interests of the freshmen.

We therefore encourage the univer-

sity community, in general, and the
Student Affairs Committee, in particu-
lar, to seriously consider a plan for
winter rush for the following reasons.

1) Having fraternity rush a matter of
days after classes commence clearly
interrupts whatever early academic
momentum freshman men might gain.
Developing a fraternity rush calendar
that advances, not impedes, freshman
academic adjustment must be the single
most important consideration in any
study or proposed change to the rush
program. The incremental changes
adopted each year by the IFC — mov-
ing rush a few days earlier or later;
expanding or limiting “no contact,”
having more or fewer open houses —
do not address the fundamental
problems.

2) Though adapting to the academic
rigor of college is the most critical
challenge for freshmen, they also con-
front other significant obstacles during
their first weeks or months on campus.
We expect freshmen to pass from ado—-
lescence into adulthood as quickly as
they step out of their parents’ loaded
station wagons on opening day; we
assume they immediately have a full
understanding of their new academic
and social world. We would contend
that the challenge of suddenly becom-
ing, or being treated as, an adult should
take precedence over — and ought to
occur without the additional encum-
brance of — going through fraternity
rush.

3) Despite attempts by the IFC to
monitor abuses of pledge “duties” dur-
ing the fall, freshmen feel they serve a
year—long pledgeship. We realize that
pledgeship by definition has its oner-
ous features, but the fact that it is ex-

tended through most of the academic
year is unreasonable and unfair to
freshmen.

4) Conducting fraternity rush a week
or two after freshmen arrive at W&L
does not provide sufficient time for
them to learn much of any substance
about the university, much less about
the intricacies of a fraternity system
with sixteen
houses scattered
about Lexington,
many of which
freshmen have
never visited. A
freshmen who

 

 
 rush would encour

cc-—

0ur social, extra-
curricular; and co-cur-

    

I

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994

“private” tables.

6) Many freshmen men dread re-
turning to the campus after the Christ-
mas break, knowing they face the “sec-
ond half” of pledgeship. Why not give
both freshmen men and women not
only something they will feel eager
about returning to, but also a shared
experience —-— fraternity and sorority
rush —-— for the
first half of the
winter term?
Additionally,
the early weeks
of the winter
term seem to be

de led ed ri ht one of the
P 8 8 . . . . _

after returning rzcular activities must troughs in the
from the Chrrst- add to, not detractfrom’ rhythm or cycle
mas break re— . , . , ofthe academic
cently told one of the ""5510" Ofdf-’V€l0Plng year — when
us that he la- ° “ - freshment i-

rn our stu entst e ca YP

mented the fall -  - t callyexperience
rush process. He paclty an eslre 0 their most acute
spoke excitedly learn, to understand, and casesf of
abouthavingbeen ' “trans eritis” -
to four or ﬁve fra- to S,ha_re the frults of andawinterrush
temities early in their intellectual would provide
the winter term grow; .” one of the key
thathedidn’teven activities, as
know existed in   we” as a

the fall when he
felt he had to make
a decision about which house to join.
5) When class unity and cohesive-
ness seem to be most important —-
during the first days and weeks that
freshmen are on campus — fraternity
rush splinters or fractures the class. We
have repeatedly heard freshmen ex-
press disappointment over the segre-
gating of the class, most clearly dem-

onstrated in the dining hall where '

pledge classes stake out their own

' To the editor:

Both sides of the serious and controversial subject of
drug legalization were addressed in the Phi within the past
few weeks. Both columns, however, fail to address the real
issue. Marijuana should be legalized because such a law is
clearly unjust and is certainly not in accordance with the
individual freedoms and natural rights upon which this

country was founded.

One columnist proposed the idea that drugs should
remain illegal because Americans need to be subjected to
a government that;-_i_ ,a merglwuthority ovqnthem. A; more

r&uld ‘  be rriiideévefﬁih aitotailitariaﬁ
regime. This columnist a mpted to justify this type of
“big brother” government by ‘tlrawiiirg to“- the reader’s
attention the mandatory seat belt law, saying that “people
need to be protected fromthemselves.” This columnist
boldly made this statement but failed to vindicate it with
any argument. Why? Because it is impossible to argue that
in a free society an individual should not be allowed to
engage in activities that harm no one but himself (and the
fact that it harms anyone at all is debatable). Any thinking

absurd propositio

Professor ’s attack on the EC was based on groundless assumptions

To the editor:

Despite what the latest misleading
letter suggests, this time from Publica-
tions Board Advisor Brian Richardson,
the Executive Committee will meet all
its constitutional obligations to the
Calyx and The Ring-tum Phi this year.

The basic problem seems to be this:
for the second straight year the Calyx
has only been able to get one-third of
underclassmen to sit for portraits, Mr.
Richardson thinks this is acceptable. I
do not.

The facts are as follows. The Ex-
ecutive Committee cut initial alloca-
tions to The Ring-tum Phi and the Ca-
lyx this year. The Executive Commit-
tee did so to encourage these publica-
tions to develop sources of revenue,
such as advertising, available to them.
The Ring-tum Phi responded to this
incentive and projects a tidy profit.

Unfortunately, the Calyx has not
been as successful. The C alyxstaff is to
be commended for increasing adver-
tising revenues, but their principal
source of revenue comes from student
pictures.

For the second year in a row they
only managed to convince one-third of
underclassmen to sit for their portraits.
Not only does this lead to an incom-

person would immediately ﬁnd this columnist’s statement
foolishly illogical. This columnist should have said, “My
person code of morality should be imposed on every

individual.”

harming no one.

plete yearbook, it causes a budget short-
fall as well.

As Mr. Richardson acknowledges,
if every student had his or her picture
taken it “would only just make up this
year’s shortfall” BINGO! This is ex-
actly what the Executive Committee
was encouraging the Calyx to do.

Unfortunately, Mr. Richardson’s
brief moment of lucidity quickly fades.
He fails to acknowledge that the Calyx
staff has missed a superb opportunity
to improve its publication and increase
its operating budget. He goes on to
make the ridiculous suggestion that it
should be the responsibility of the Ex-
ecutive Committee, rather than the
Calyx, to get students to sit for pictures.

We realized at the beginning of the
year that the Calyx would not be able to
raise the number of portraits to the 100
percent level. We had hoped for some
improvement, though. Nevertheless,
we will live up to our constitutional
duty and make sure the Calyx has
enough money in its account to publish
a yearbook this year.

It has always been clear that the
Executive Committee would meet this
constitutional obligation. When we
made the initial budget cuts this fall we
made it clear that any publication was

  
 

TGIF Catalog Outlet
17 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA

New Hours: 10 to 5:30, Mon. - Sat.

463-9730

   

For the sake of argument let us assume that drugs are
indeed harmful to the individual. If an individual decides
to us a legal drug, then who is harmed but the individual?
No one. Everyday in the “land of the free” innocent
individuals are thrown into prison in the name of justice for

Both columnists missed the point by arguing over the
1’ effect of ‘am-gs on the individual; It simply does not matter.
Whether or not drugs enhance creativity is"/Beside the
point, though it is hard to deny that they have the capability
to provide imaginative material. Samuel Taylor Coleridge
would agree that in some cases they do provide imagina-
tive vision that can aid creativity. Nevertheless, the effects
of drugs on the individual should be disregarded.
' The fact is that prohibition has never worked. Prohibi-
tion was tried in the 1920s, and the results were the
emergence of organized crime (gangs) and the production

K

free to request more funding from the
Executive Committee. Recently the
Calyx did just that, and the Executive
Committee did just that, and the Ex-
ecutive Committee will meet their
needs.

Perhaps if Mr. Richardson had at-
tended out meetings or contacted me
all this could have been explained to
him. Instead, he demonstrates a gross
ignorance about the intentions and ac-
tions of the Executive Committee. I
fear that this results from his reliance
on the editors of the Calyx and The
Ring-tum Phi to providehim with in-
formation. They are hardly disinter-
ested parties in this matter.

What’s more troubling about Mr.
Richardson’s letter is the baseless at-
tack he makes upon me and my mo-
tives in administering the student ac-
tivities fund this year.

He begins with the oblique conten-
tion that I have violated the constitu-
tion in some way, yet he does not put
forward one single instance of such a
violation. He does not for the simply
reason that I have followed the consti-
tution quite closely.

I am quite well aware of the special
status the constitution grants to the
Calyx and The Ring-tum Phi, and the

I The

Point of View     F

Restaurant

    

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing

$2 off any pasta dinner with
student I .D.

_ Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn
1 463-7797

LETTERS

Columnists overlook the advantages of drug legalization

of harmful, bootlegged alcohol that was cheaply made and
sold at outrageous prices. Eventually, lawmakers realized
their error and repealed the act that caused the prohibition.
The current situation in America proves that we do not
learn from our mistakes. America once again faces per-
haps its greatest internal problem to date. Contrary to the
belief of many blind Americans, this problem is not the use
of drugs. The problem is organized crime: the gangs that
are plaguing the streets as a result of prohibition.
Americans must face the fact that the drug war was
futile from the beginning and lost years ago. When drugs
are legalized, the leaders of organized crime; the real:
criminals, will be forced out of business because prices
will plummet. The government will then be able to rega-
late drug production to keep the drugs clean and free of
harmful additives.
In addition, taking drugs off the black market will allow
the government to tax their production, sale, and purchase,
and much of this revenue can be used to fund new, more
effective campaigns to discourage drug use and to pay for
better rehabilitation facilities. To put it plainly, since drugs

m u c h - n e e d e d
distraction for
freshmen.

7) Freshmen women are isolated
during fraternity rush, feeling that their
social experience is very clearly and
distinctly separate from the men’s ex-
perience; freshmen women say they
are merely set adrift, while the men, for
better or worse, are busy establishing a
social niche or identity by afﬂliating
themselves with a fraternity.

8) Since freshmen so quickly join a

fraternity, they seldom develop on their
halls the same harmony or unity — or
meaningful, lasting friendships -— that
seem to occur on many of the women’s
halls. It is not surprising to us that
freshman women’s halls seem to share
a closer bond and more meaningful and
lasting friendships since they have time
to cultivate and forge those friendships
before joining a Greek organization.

9) The current rush program en-
courages fiscal irresponsibility on the
part of fraternities; it seems that no
expense is too much during the two or
two-and-a-half week rush period with
some fraternities squandering so much
money that they have some difficulty
organizing and paying for parties dur-
ing the second half of the year. A win-
ter rush would force a kind of healthy,
natural regulation of the entire frater-
nity system, whereby no fraternity, pre-
sumably, would be able to have parties
every Wednesday, Friday, and Satur-
day night during the fall but rather each
fraternity would need to select perhaps
a handful of key nights or occasions
for parties.

We have not been persuaded by the
arguments we have heard over the years
against winter rush. It does not destroy
“tradition.” We think too highly of
Washington and Lee’s deeper tradi-
tions to believe‘ that they somehow
depend upon not giving freshmen the
time they deserve to make truly impor-
tant decisions about their friends and
the kind of social life they wish to
pursue during their four years here. If
anything, fall rush has caused us, as
Deans of Freshmen, to truncate pro-
grams designed to orient freshmen to
the most significant tradition of the
university.

age freshman class unity.

We find it ironic, too, that one of the
main arguments for fall rush is that
fraternity brothers must be protected
from themselves. The system is socom-
petitive, the argument goes, that broth-
ers will find it necessary to rush D?
excess for three months, “dirty rush”
will increase to an unmanageable de-
gree, and fraternities will spend them-
selves into bankruptcy. If true, what
does that say about the judgmentrand
values of our fraternities? We have
greater faith in our students. Let’s loci:
upon them, the freshmen, as well as the
fraternity brothers, as adults capable of

 

ll
.3.

making sensible decisions and sound f

judgments.

Nor are we persuaded by the “finan-
cial—cost-imposed-upon-the-fraterni-
ties” argument which seems to viefjv
freshmen as sources of income rather
than as future friends and members of
a large community.

In the end, however, we advocate :

winter rush not forwhat it would elimi-

nate but rather for the opportunities it ’

presents. Having a winter fratemi y
and sorority rush would permit all fres -
men — men and women — to share an
important, common social experience

that could transform in the healthiest 3
possible way the nature of the fresh- '
men experience at Washington and Lee. ?.
The university would have an oppor- ‘
tunity, at last, to build genuﬂie ~,

class

set of social offerings, and reinforce ’

its primary mission
academic institution.

215

an H

Manning has been Dean of Fresh- §
men since 1991. Ruscio is Associﬂte ;
Dean of the C 0mmerceSchool and was ‘7

Dean of Freshmen from 1 987-1 991.

requirement that theirbudget surpluses
be returned to the Pub Board, not the
Executive Committee. I acknowledge
this requirement in my March 3 letter
to The Ring-tum Phi.

I contend that this arrangement is
fundamentally flawed because it pro-
vides for virtually no independent over-
sight of the Pub Board. However, I am
forced to live with it.

The constitution puts a significant
sum of students’ money in the hands of
the editors and business managers who
comprise the Pub Board, and gives
them free-reign to spend it however
they like. The Pub Board selects its
own membership, with absolutely no
input from the student body in the
selection process. In addition, students
are required to subscribe to these
publications.

This lack independent oversight can
lead to poor products and slothful man-
agement. Indeed this tendency is re-
vealed by two of Mr. Richardson’s
arguments. First, he contends that one-
third of underclass portraits is an ac-
ceptable number. As discussed above,
the result is a poor product and a budget
deficit.

Second, he states “the Phi was not
poorly managed last year.” Is he kid-

J

  

the right hands.

are readily available on the black market, why not wipe out all
the crime caused by unjust and unproductive laws and give the
money to those who will make it productive. Since drugs are s d
anyway, the revenue from their sale should at least be placed in .

involves recreational drug use, that is fine with me. It is wrong

Tom Leggett, ’97

ding? Over the course of last year more
than half of The Ring-tum Phi editors
and regular reporters became so fed up
with the paper’s management (finan-
cial and otherwise) that they quit and
started their own paper, The Trident.

In fact, there was a serious question
as to whether The Ring-tum Phi would
even be able to put out a paper last
Spring Term. And who could forget
the absolutely‘ tasteless April Fool’s
issue?

Mr. Richardson may be willing to
accept such low standards for publica-
tions funded by the students of Wash-
ington and Lee, but I am not.

Mr. Richardson seeks to justify the
Pub Board as a “safeguard against the
blatant reward-your-friends—and-pun-
ish-your-enemies political pork barrel
that the student activities fee often be-
comes.”

If Mr. Richardson is going to make
such damning and insulting statement
I wish he would present at least some
facts to back them up. I hope this is not
an indication of the type of advice he
might be giving budding young report-
ers about their responsibilities in re-
porting the news.

The Executive Committee has taken
a thorough and open approach to the

 

month larger unit.

-———Great Location
——Landlord pays for water,
. including hot water
If interested, please call property
manager, Mrs. Brown, daytime
463-3013; at night or weekends,
(703) 984-9402
L_____

Apartments for Rent
Catering to W&L students. 2 Two
bedroom apartments for rent in
downtown Lexington, just a very
short walk from the W&L campus.
$300 per month one unit; $375 per

for other Americans to be subjected to real crimes becauslof
laws that are unjust and detrimental. The “keep things the way
they are” mentality is only hurting people.

funding of student activities this year.
We have funded those groups which

‘ we believe will use the students’ money

wisely, efficiently, and to the
university’s benefit. I hope r.
Richardson will not be too disappointed
to learn we are not the band of political
fat cats he would like us to be.

Mr. Richardson claims to have re-
vealed me as a “politician-in-training.”
Were I, I could certainly learn a reat
deal from his “half—truths, buck ss-
ing, and petty posturing.”

His letter reveals quite a bit more.
First, nobody is ever happy about hav-
ing their budget cut. Second, that his
beliefs are shaped not by an objective,
view of the facts, but an unfounded
skepticism about the student go\Qarn-
ment of Washington and Lee. Third,
that he is not afraid to base his
attacks on me and the rest of the
Executive Committee on his ground-
less assumptions.

And finally, that he is willing to
accept a much lower standard foﬂour
campus publications than I am.

Sincerely,
Bob Tompkins, ’94L
President, Executive Committee of the
Student Body
0

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 

unity, develop a more varied Y

I have heard it said that by legalizing certain drugs the '
government would be encouraging their use. Any intelligent
person should be able to see the foolishness of such a proposi- .
tion. Does our government encourage the use of alcohol simply ,'
because it is legal? Certainly not. Does the government enc(ﬂr-

wage an individual to riskhis life by skydiving simply because '

‘7‘doing'-so is-legal? No! Ana ,icans are free to engage in these ,

activities but are in no way “ couraged to do so. 

’ i It is time that Americafts wake up and face the problem of ‘
drug prohibition. If a man’s or w_oman’s pursuit of happiness

 

Q

   
 

  

UDEC, from page 1

    
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
 

me ed by the WBRC.
fter discussing and voting on this
mendment, the EC adjourned and
cheduled the next White Book review
' eeting for Tuesday at 7 p.m.
. At Tuesday’s meeting, EC and
BRC members argued over a pro-
_os$i restructuring of the investiga-
' ive eams that look into possible honor
iolations for over an hour before
5 utton realized that no amendments
ould be approved that night. The
rocedure for amending the White
‘Book requires that the entire EC vote
0 n amendments. With James Rambeau
naﬁe to attend the Tuesday meeting,
he EC hit a brick wall.
Discussion centered around the
ake-up of the investigative team. The
BRC recommended the team be
ade up of “a member of the Execu-
ive Committee, a member of the law
chobl honor advocate pool, and a
ember of the student body.” The

he Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994

team currently comprises two EC mem-
bers and a student.

Additionally, the WBRC suggested
that the EC member investigating a
student for a potential honor violation
should not vote on the student’s guilt or
innocence.

Hutton said an apparent bias on the
part of the two investigators that vote
on guilt or innocence under the current
system is a concern of many members
of the student body and the faculty.

“This is one of the biggest problems
that students today see with the Honor
System,” he said.

Cross said he believed the bias was
imagined and that the EC investigators
are not prosecutors.

“These representatives are not out
to fulfill that role (of prosecutor),” he
said.

Other committee members ex-
pressed concerns about having the
EC’s investigative process likened to a
court proceeding.

“One of the biggest fears I have is

turning the Executive Committee into
a courtroom,” said Senior EC Repre-
sentative Kenney Bullock.

“I think this proposal would show
every student that the EC is willing to
make the procedure as fair as pos-
sible,” said Howell.

The EC voted on this amendment,
realizing the vote could not be official
due to Rambeau’s absence. The unof-
ficial vote failed to approve this amend-
ment.

The EC went on to unofficially re-
ject several other amendments and can-
celled the scheduled Wednesday night
White Book review meeting.

Tompkins said the Wednesday
night meeting could not take place be-
cause two EC members would not be
present.

The EC will meet at its regular time
on Monday, but will not vote on any
amendments until March 28, when the
whole committee can approve or reject
the proposed amendments.

Students concerned about the White

EC, WBRC start White Book revisions

Book review had a chance to voice any
concerns Sunday at a dinner discussion
sponsored by the Graham-Lee Wash-
ington Literary Society entitled “Can
Honor Survive at W&L?” in the uni-
versity center.

University Historian Taylor Sand-
ers started off the discussion with a
speech on the history of the Honor
System. Sanders’ speech outlined sev-
eral key periods in the history of the
Honor System.

Sanders said at one point in 1911, a
student athlete was dismissed from the
university for the offense of smoking a
cigarette.

Sanders said traditionally the Honor
System has resisted codification of its
principles.

“Under Lee there was no need for a
system or code,” he said. “He trusted
them (the students).”

Matt Jackson of the G-LW society
followed up Sanders’ speech with a
message from White Book Review
Committee Chairman Ames Hutton.

Hutton was unable to speak because he
had lost his voice.

Jackson introduced four members
of the WBRC, Cameron Howell,
Ashley Rowe, Nathan Dunn and Mike
Stakes to discuss the Honor System
and field questions from the audience.

Stakes said the committee would
recommed that two essential attributes
of the Honor System would remain
intact through the review process.

“It must be student-run and it must
retain the single sanction,” he said.

Rowe and Howell stressed that a
precise definition of an honor violation
should never be codiﬁed. Howell
agreed with the current wording of the
White Book, which lists lying, cheat-
ing and stealing as examples of dishon-
orable conduct, but leaves the interpre-
tation of honor up to the current student
generation.

“I look at this statement as a kind of
elastic clause,” said Howell.

Dunn agreed.

“If one student decides that smok-

  

ing is an honor violation, turn it in,” he
said. “See what happens.”

Rowe explained the committee’s
rationale for submitting a revision that
would pennit the Executive Commit-
tee to refer matters to other campus
judicial bodies. She said many stu-
dents, especially at the law school, do
not know that the Student Conduct
Committee exists.

“There was a concern that rape
should be considered an honor viola-
tion,” said Howell.

Executive Committee President
Robert Tompkins responded from the
audience to the issue of rape as an
honor violation.

“I’d feel more comfortable with the
Student-Faculty Hearing Board (tak-
ing the case),” he said.

Sanders ended his speech with a
statement about the Honor System’s
future.

“My answer to the question of
whether honor will survive here is a
resounding ‘maybe.’”

0

. The Phi is recruiting writers.
.editors and other talented Iolles.

Hey you! ljes, you.

V you Ienow you've always wanted
 to write for the school paper.

' Deerdvwn inside. uvu’vealwm/s
.wanted the fame and recoynition

associated with

So ioin us.

the journalism profession.

(If you are interested.
call Sarah éillert

at 462-4060.
We’ll make you famous.  

 

 

PAGE 9

   
    
   

A PAGE 10

    

Baseball just 1

 

SPORTS

 

- . The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994

oses har

Above: Junior
Duane Van Arsdale
smashes the home
run that brought
the Generals into
the lead in the
March 17 game
against Hampden-
Sydney.

Left: Junior Bates
Brown singles a
ball. Brown had a
spectacular day,
hitting 4-6 in the
Generals’ effort.

Right: The Gener-
als’ pitcher, junior
Brett Hartman,
hurls one across
the plate at Smith
Field.

Photos by Be‘thany‘Smil:h,' Th’ Rinig-tum Phi

 game ~

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor ,

   

The key to winning baseb'all
games is getting your hitting and
pitching working together in sync.

For the Washington and Lee base— ‘
ball team, the 1994 season has been i
one of mixed fortunes. '

Early in the year, the Genesals
struggled at the plate while trying to
gain the touch at the plate.

After the recent weather delays,
the team has come out booming at
the plate, but the pitching staff has
temporarily faltered.

The Generals lost a tough one last
night 18-16 to Hampden-Sydney.

According to coach Jeff Stickley,
the team was down nine or 10 runs
and came back to even take a lead in
the game before falling to
theHampden-Sydney Tigers.

Stickley summed up the com-
petitive match-up . D

‘‘It was a hard fought game; we
fought back a couple of times,”
Stickley said.

Stickley gives the team credit for
improving in each and every game
so far this season.

“The more we play, the morowe
improve,” said the Generals’ coach.

Stickley also commended the
team’s batters’ progression.

“Hitting—wise we’ve improved
every game,” he said.

The next contest for the W&L
squad comes this Saturday aggnst .
Virginia Wesleyan. The Generals
split with Va. Wesleyan last season,
but Coach Stickley sees the game as '
being a very tough one.

“They’re one of the favorites for ,
sure,” said Stickley.

The two week break prob bly ’
hurt the team according to Stick ey.

“The only way you get better in

. baseball is to play games,” said the

coach.

The recent bad weather has
caused the Washington and Lee team ‘
to schedule a full slate of game lead-
ing up to exams. .

Stickley sees the team improving
during the year.

“Once we get it together, we’ll be
a pretty good team,” said the Gener-
als’ coach. Right now the Generals
are, according to Stickley, “praying
for warm weather.” 9

Next up for the Generals is a
double-header at Virginia Wesleyan,
March 19 at 1 p.m. -  

  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
  

 

   

Publications Board

Interviews

For ~

     

Eﬂgie ?Ri11tg=i‘tnttti Eﬂigi

is iloolaiing item

  
      
  
  

 

an
Assistant Business

Manager

  
  
 
 

   
       
 

-Calyx Editor 55

Business Manageri .
-Journal oi Science Editor

-Ariel Editor O
-Political Review Editor

    
  
  
 

   
  
   
  

iiii interested, eailil

Ransom James

at
462-4060.

  
   
 

Cover Letters and Resumes

due in Carol Callzins ottice
at 5:00 p.m., April 11
Interviews April 25

   

 

i

he Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994 . PAGE 11
. . SPORTS

   

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

     Hams1 er

 
 
  
  

 

      
 
  
  
   
 
 
 

V . A A . S Standings as of 03/13/94
 . ' Baseball
. 1 Women’s Lacrosse
A 1 » Batting Leaders
‘ A « A ' A Scoring Leaders
‘ A « ' I A Player . Av HR RBI
A ,..-an-In" ‘_ -.._ Graig Fantuzzi .50 0 0 Player G A Pts
ii - .' 1 gr ~.  T. ,, A ‘ '   . Bates BTOAWAU A -407 0 2 Lindsay Coleman 9 1 10
[ ~'  3,, ' Améim ,’ Matt Ermigiotti .294 1 5 éngje can-ington 3 0 6
A  ..«,  r .-q _ A innie Logan 2 4
’  ~ ' A4 ’ 43' Pitching Leaders Am Shaw 3 0 3
._/r '  , . Susie Prevost « 0 3 3
» Player _ A _ W-L ERA K Meredith Long 1 2 3

Matt Ermigiotti 1-1 0.77 11

Brett Hartman. 1-1 2.93 2 Goaltending

& Graig Fantuzzi 1-1 3.86 11
Player SV GA SV%
Sarah Smith 21 7 .750
Men’s Lacrosse
P Scoring Leaders

player G A pts Women’s Tennis

Ande Jenkins 10 3 13 ,

Colin Hi gins 8 A 5 A 13 Singles lenders

R 11 ft * 6 5 11

 &  T;,1Si[S§,dingS) 5 2 7 lI’<liaye]r)_ k_ (5 SV 11.
I _ A B h 4 7 m 1c inson
h A dam utterwon 3 Helen Chandler((4)?) 7 1
G - Marilyn Baker 1 13 2
Oaltendmg Julie Ayers (2) 9 2
P13 6, SV GA SV7 Shelley Sunderrnan (3 7 3
' ‘ Dax)//id Jones 31 23 ._57<i) Anna 0 Connor (6) i 3
I FROZEN 
V 000000000000 0
LOW PRICES
GREEN I29
OOZ. PKG.
~ spmncri ......... ..EACH
CALIFORNIA GREEN 2/89
ONIONS ........ ..EACHO
. LIMEAS ........... ..EACHO

YELLOW
ONION$.....3 LB. BAGO99

I ’

_m 

GREAT VALUE

LOW PRICES.   V
1-ROPICANA DIET COKE OR

~ ORANGE JUICE   COCA-COLA

REGULAR,
HOMESTYLE OR
CALCIUM .

 WEEKLY SPECIAL   

POWDER DETERGENT SELECTED VARIETIES I nownyinenanvsmnh» Theninwm In

Two lacrosse players examine the ground for someone’s lost contact lens during the
su  U   B  match against Lynchburg March 16. We atathe Phi were unable to determine

‘I / whether it was the Washington and Lee player or the Lynchburg player who was
0

the guilty party, though rumors circulated that the two were parodying a Three
18 USE

Stooges routine.
42 OZ.

HARRIS TEI:'I'ER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALI. ABOUT

OSCINSTANTREBATE COUPON ON EACH PKG. smcrao VARIETIES , -A  :-
CLOSE up GEL A 65 WHITE RAIN HAIR”    .\\l\Tot:Ié:To7 {Q
'I'OO'I'HPAS'l'E cm PRODUCTS 5..    it , 

POTATO/ONION OR POTATO/ CHEESE LEMON LUCULLAN DEUGHTS OR

MRS. 1'5 3/ 00 THE DECADENT 2/ 00
PIEROGIES 2.2. C"2.°.‘%*.4‘“COOKIE 

REGULAR OR LOW FAT IN THE DEL|- BAKERY 

H'I' COTTAGE I59 SELECTED VARIETIES

 

64
OZ. f

 

 

 

   

   

 
   

in   Sre-vine
‘

COFFEE CAKES EA.

c I 24 OZ.   Axiog .
~   Prices Effective Throu h March 22, I 994    in em
Prices In This Ad Eiiective V\_/ednesdoy,_ MorchA_I_6 Through T es 0 , March 22,1994 In our Lexington Stores   1-900-662‘ -Err‘?
Oniy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Solid To Beoiers. We Giadly Accept Federal Food Stamps. A   .  _A '___A.-.‘,.‘ 

 

 

3 ; .-3.7.: wg . 'h.—'.-»._-_«,.

I-)”Ua&.:vQIna-»-<xn»<\.,~....;...__’_“,,_.,, W . G

 

 

 

K

PAGE 12

Last Week:

WLax—Roanoke 15, W&L 8
Base—Hampden-Sydney 18,W&L 16

. AgAenitalia-whackersare.ge
: ting sentences slashed;

‘‘ cure-all“ternp_orary_insAan-
_ ity” plea, itseerns A_—as' '

Tonrds  
bargain    

 

SARAHON SPORTS A
BY SARAH Gttesar  *

 

- I fully ‘realize that‘

A Tonya Harding has plead V

A guilty of obstruction of
justice,‘ just in case you
were wondering. ' 

. And. further, yes,1 still 
believe in Ms. Harding -4-  :
my original theory, thatshe ' .
"knew nothingof the incl-A .
Vdent until ’ after the fact,
has been proven in a court, A

of law. V V
If we review the whole

situation,‘pre-, during, and 
. post-Olympics, post~Sa't-"‘
urday Night Live, posi- ,

plea bargain, I think the

conclusion must . be that ‘

Tonya is the true victim.
While Nancy Kerrigan

chuckles like a nicely‘ =

carved block of wood in a

spinning tea cup Vand, _.
proves to thewhole world I

that yes, she has no p‘e‘r'-

sonality (ifyou miSS_ed.thAa_t,7 ,
episode,,takemy wordfor 
it and do not call.NBC:.fO,
ask for a copy of the  V '
V. sram).Tony==1i-istrirasglirzg 1‘ i
I with a career-ending_deci- A  AI
sion that should havebeen El‘, ,
j a simple fine. ‘ A  
Not to mentionan’ abu-5, A. .
sive, scheming ex-husband; 
who blunderingly ‘plotted 

not onlyto eliminate her

: competitions bi1t,; taming»

that, to eliminate her. (And

never forget”) the lovely 
Mommy:.Hardi11gs she off I

the fur coat);   2 .

‘In any“ cirAcfumstaAncesA: A
not connected to the United , 
States Olympic Commit- '

tee; Har<Iins.woI‘v.1_d prob}

I ably have been slapped on A
the hand; But ' Olympic ;

committees are notorious

for falling far short of a_j
Fedcralistinterpretation of A

the Constitution, re; Butch
Reynolds and_.his ‘years-

Iong battle’ over botched 

urine sampletests.

Obstruction of justice;
is nothing to write“home —
about. But it certainly ;
shouldnot be punishedin  .
such a devastating way; 
especially not in consider-_
ation of the fact that the —
perpetrator of Athefcrirne A
wasthe former husbandof I

Harding, withall the at-
tendant affection and loy-

alty of such apclose Vper- :

 sonalrelation-sh,ip.; [i .- A: ~

When rnpr‘derer_s:‘ nd
even eliminated for _t

Harding" could have,[bAar-

I . gained for something. a 
little better than »1if_e.~Iio”.; V
competitive skating.‘ ; 2   

Even! must admit,

. however, that something,
 seemsalittle strangeaboupg
: thewhole-affair.Justhours 9
‘ before. her guilty .,plAe‘a';: 
Harding was skating in; the “
 mall in frontof hundreds,
‘ of Portland fans, readying 
. herself for. the - World H ..
Championshipsflltefeistyt A
Oregonian has stood up to f 
‘ everything the law and the V
j world coulddish out for-.
' her so ‘far, and it must have
taken something ea'rth- 
shakingly significant for g
her acquiescence with her _

1awyer’s deal.  V v
The only “good” thing

A to come of the whole mess

is the offer.from_ the ‘Japa-

nese won1en’s wrestling .

federation for a rumored
$2 million contract. -No.

V word on the terms yet, but .

rumor has itshe would be
the highest-paid woman in

Japanese sports. Some-

thing to which to aspire.»
Nevertheless, the silly
world has lost a wonder-

ful, amazingly athletic

skater who deserves acco-

1adesforherheartandpro- 
fessionalism and gainedia 3
piece of wood with too 1

many teeth and the saving

grace of a_ pretty darn good, V
. costumer, ; 3 A‘ .  V.
_ ..I wnt.,.n;§ssiyon.'-Tcnyag. 
IthinlAelwot1idpassonthe‘V

Japanese wrestling,
though, child.

  
 

  S

@112 filing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS  

This Week:
M&WTennis—Kenyon, 03/18
M&WTrack—_—W&L Invite, 03/19
WLax—Guilford, 03/ 19 9
MLax—Gettysburg, 03/ 19

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK AND FIELD

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Lynchburg. The Generals were victorious.

omen’s lax falls to rival Roanoke

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

“Shell-shocked" could be one way to describe
how the Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse
players felt after a stunning 15-8 defeat to Roanoke
College Thursday on the Liberty Hall Fields.

The defeat, itself, should not be considered all
that stunning since the two Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rivals have played some of the most
intense, dramatic games in ODAC history. Yet,
coming as it did, with Roanoke scoring 10 con-
secutive goals in the first-halfto break a 2-2 tie, the
loss can be deemed a shocker to Generals‘ fans.

That game had all the drama a W&L—Roanokc
contest could want.

Both teams had opened their respective seasons
with blow-outs. Both were ranked nationally. Both
had plenty of fan support on hand. Even WLUR
choose to make this match-up the first women’s
lacrosse game to hit its airwaves.

Roanoke, ranked 14th in Division III entering
the contest, opened the scoring merely 59 seconds
into the game. W&L answered quickly as senior
Pauline Mita netted her first goal of the year a

. minute-and-a-half later.

The Maroons wasted barely a minute before
regaining a one-goal lead when Generals’ goalie
Sarah Smith was beat on a rebound. The Generals
countered, though, with a score by junior Lindsay

Coleman less than four minutes later.

At that point, the contest looked as ifit would be
no different than any recent W&L—Roanoke meet-
ing. The last three encounters have been won by
Washington and Lee by one-goal margins.

The Generals took the 1992
ODAC championship by a 10-9

MARCH 18, 1994 "

ecord'  

crosse gains speed with 4-2 r

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

seven goals, and against Alfred,
Jenkins had two goals and two
assists. Stagnitta also credits se-

Saturday’s

head coach.

onslaught that was to come.

The clock seemed to be moving in slow motion
as the score changed more often than the angle of
the sun: 16:35, 15:49, 13:40, 12:45, 11:34, 8:28,
5:43, 5:00, 3:57. It did not seem possible that this
kind of scoring outburst
could be happening to either.

overtime score when Lisa Dowling
’93 scored twice in the extra-ses-
sion. W&L had to overcome 6-3
half-time and 9-8 overtime deficits
to defeat the Maroons for the_first
time. W&Lalso won the 1993 regu-
lar season meeting 10-9 in over-
time, a game also played at
Roanoke. Finally, Washington and
Lee made it three-in-a-row over
the Maroons last May 1 when jun-
ior Nicole Ripken scored with one
second left in regulation in the
ODAC title game.

 

team, let alone the two—time
defending ODAC champi-
ons.

The replacing of Smith,
who would return for the sec-
ond-half and finish with 15
saves, with freshman goalie
Brooke Glenn could not halt
the Maroons, as they seemed
to be playing in a time—zone
where defenses were mere
obstacles on a driving test.

Coleman ended the seem-
ingly never-ending run with

March 17, Roanoke was return-
ing to the site of the crime, the
Liberty Hall Fields, in hopes of knocking off the
seventh-ranked Generals and ending W&L’s 14-
game home-field winning streak. That streak ex-
tended to the 1992 regular season meeting between
the I-81 rivals, won by the Maroons, 12-8.

The back of neither not was touched until 17:36
remained in the first-half. Roanoke regained a one-
goal lead at that time, but had shown no signs of the

Smith

W&L’s third goal 42 sec-
onds before half-time. None-
theless, Roanoke managed another score with 12
ticks left on the clock to give the visitors a 13-3 lead
after 30 minutes of one-sided play.

The apparent loss was going to be extra-bitter
for W&L to swallow as they were coming off a
disappointing 5-4 loss at Salisbury State last Satur-
day. Suddenly, the season-opening 21-2 romp of
Bridgewater seemed years ago as the team was

Sometimes a team has to stand
up and fight or lose all that they
have worked for in a season. The
Washington and Lee men’s la-
crosse team was placed in that
situation this past week.

The Generals faced a 14th
ranked Lynchburg team fresh off
a loss to top eight ranked Alfred.
Washington and Lee responded
by defeating Lynchburg. The
win sends the Generals into this
game
Gettysburg on the upswing.

. Coach James Stagnitta blamed
the early season loss to Hampden
Sydney on inexperience.

“A lot of it is that we’re young.
I knew it would be tough sled-
ding early,” said the Generals’

Stagnitta also credits the team
with making great strides during
the course of the young season.
“They ’ve taken huge steps in the
past ten days,” said Stagnitta.

The W&L squad opened the
year with a number eight ranking
nationally and a win against St.
Mary’s before the loss to
Hampden Sydney. The Generals
responded in the W&L Tourna-
ment by defeating Swarthmore
before losing to Alfred in the
final game of the tournament.

. . . . . . . In the win over Swarthmore,
Members of the Washington and Lee lacrosse team head up Wilson Field 111 thelr March 16 game agamst Sophomore Ande Jenkins tamed

nior Colin Higgins, Scott
Mackley, and Adam Butterworth
with responding for the Generals
this year.

The team has lately seen some
of the younger players steppgig
up and producing in clutch situa-
tions.

“Some people are starting to
step up and take some leader-
ship,” said Stagnitta.

He also commended his im-
proving new talent.

“These younger guys are stQrt-
ing to take it to the cage,” he said.

against

losses, to control their own des-
tiny. According to Stagnitta the
team has its back against the wall,
but definitely has the “oppo!.u-
nity to get right back in the hunt.”

He also said that the
Gettysburg game was important
because it was an out-of-confer-
ence contest with a ranked team.
Stagnitta also placed a great deal
of importance on the Roanake
contest.

The team appears to be back
on the winning track after its
early trials.’

Coach Stagnitta: credits the
team with a great deal of im-
provement and, despite some.in-
consistencies, sees the team as
being extremely competitive
down the stretch this season.

faced with falling under the .500 mark at 1-2A
overall, 1-1 ODAC. A

The second-half, however, did reveal signs of .

life in the white jerseys. Senior Angie Carrington
scored three times and Coleman added two rrbre
tallies before Roanoke could answer and, thus, cut
the lead to 13-8.

Carrington’s third goal was career score num-
ber 78, moving the All-American past Shawn Wert
’91 into third-place on Washington and Lee’s all-
time goals scored list.

Unfortunately, all of the scoring came inﬂhe
final 14 minutes of the game and did not threaten
the outcome. Maroon Jennifer Shimrak, one of
only two seniors on the squad, ended Roanoke’s
28 minute scoring drought with a goal with 2:04
remaining. Freshman stand-out Gayle Avery put
an exclamation point on the affair with 36 seconds
left in the romp. 0

Another Maroon freshman Lisa Franz}-no and
junior Liz Florence, who scored the tying-goal that
preceded Ripken’s game-winner in last year’s

VODAC final, harassed the Generals’ goal all after-
noon and showed that this will be a Roanoke team

to contend with both this year and in ’95.

W&L will have to recover quickly as they‘ake A
the two-game losing streak back onto the Liberty “

Hall Fields Saturday at 2:00 against another ODAC
foe, Guilford. The Generals then are off until next
Thursday, when they host conference opponent
Lynchburg in another WLUR broadcasted-affair.

  
   
   

 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

 

The time is upon us. Once
again the National Collegiate
Atheleric Association provides
us with a definitive champion
for once.

Finally, the pairings have

opinions on whothe finalcom-
batants might be. Of course, I
have to involve myself in the

This year’s affair looks to
be one of the most exciting
tournaments in history (of
course, that being said, one of
the teams will roll through ev-
ery game by about 50 points or
something).

Many of the second round
games could provide close,
hard fought contests. Even the
first round has its share ofprom-
ising battles.

Despite a weekend when
six of the top eight teams fell,
the selection committee
emerged with roughly the same
top seeds as were expected.
Missouri, the Big Eight cham-
pion, claimcd the number one
seed in the west, while North
Carolina, Arkansas. and Purdue

Purdue team.

the Big Party.

claimed the other top spots. Duke
and Connecticut, two teams ap-
parently slated for top seeds,
lost out via the upset route (Duke
to Virginia in the Atlantic Coast
Conference, and Connecticut to
Providence in the Big East).
Long, verbose ex-
planations and argu-
merits are not worth
anyone’s time. In that

down in my pool): in
the East, the top seeds
prevail with UNC and

tions, but down the
stretch, Kentucky, and
itPAlNSmetosay this,
should streak past
Duke to meet a solid

The West region is
the consensus weak
region. Missouri and
Louisville look to be
the favorites here. The
Midwest, or Arkansas,
region is just that, all
Razorbacks. Arkansas
is nearly unbeatable in
Dallas and should do-
feat a solid, but streaky
Michigan squad.

Here it is: the Final Four. I’ll
leave everyone else to argue about

North Carolina, Purdue, Ar-
kansas, and Louisville look to
have the strongest claims right
now. Out of these, UNC and
Arkansas should meet in Char-
lotte in a pick’em game. I give
the nod to UNC for the home

March Madness, sad for Cal fans,
heads to fantabulous Charlotte, N.C.

them picked in my pool to go to
the final four, what of it? It
only hurts my standing in the
pool a little (yeah, right.)
Everyone has UNC picked
towinthe championship. Since
the games will be in the Queen
City this year (Charlotte), I’m
pulling for the.All-ACC Final
Four game between Duke and

eryone else to argue about the ins
and outs, and I’ll probably end
up dead wrong.

By the way, why couldn’t Cal
pick last year to exit the tourna-
ment this early? I know the Duke
players would have been ever so
excited.

The Tonya Harding
issue made its weekly

66

been released and the entire spirit,he_reare my Elite _ ‘
world is engaged in a betting Eightpicksforthisyear The great gods 0fSp0I‘tS
free-for-all, and everyone has (or atleastwhatlwrote

fray and call upon the great and UConn meeting in Mi-
benevolent gods of sports fore- ami. The Southeast r€- ‘
casting and throw in my lot. gion providessome 0p— one of the most beautlful

the national championship

vance I will have NO work
done on Monday.

court advantage, but this is a game

that could go either way.
Thatjust aboutcovers thc bas-

ketball. As I said, Hi leave ev-

scheduling (closely akin to the
great gods of sports forecast-
ing) have conspired to produce

occurences in recent memory.
The opening day of baseball

season falls on the same day as

game. That means I need to
warn my teachers for in ad-

A 

news appearance with UNC-
another tear-jerking
court appearance.

This time the lovely
lady of skating was

« pleading guilty. Maybe
NOW the entire story
will get some rest. By
the way, I heard that
Kerrigan sucked on Sat-
urday Night Live.

The great gods of
sports, scheduling
(closely akin to the great
gods of sports forecast-
ing) have conspired to
produce one of the most
beautiful occurences in
recent memory.

The opening day of
baseball season falls on
the same day as the na-
tional championship
game. That means I need
to warn my teachers far
in advance: I will have
NO work done on that

particular Monday.

Parting Shots-
OK, so Cal lost in the first
round. Yeah, so I originally had

Charlotte.

Maybe the Devils could put
together at least one win versus
the Heels this year.

Lord knows that NC’s not
the better team (1 hope).

I think that the Phi should
have fronted the money for me
to cover the Final Four from

‘Eng njinrta '
Ennis!

lhrrat npnnrfnni: Q
tits in algnlnrnar A
rgintr innrnnlistir
talent anti spurts A
rsqpirritisr are i
nlntilnlilr lmiitlg nu .

tutnnrtg hnlnn, nit

intrrrat far 12

They should know that lllllllllilﬂﬁ. 

would grudgingly agree to such
a torturous assignment, but in
the end, my dedication would
prevail and I would agree to go.
Then at least I would get to
witness firsthand my losing
record in the pool.
Well, that’s enough mind-
less discussion for this week.
In closing, I would like to
extend a hearty congratulations
to all the Georgia Tech fans out
‘there. There isjust something
endearing about a team that can-
not even win in the first round
of the prestigious National ln- -
vitation Tournament.
Editor’s note — Someone
spent the travelling money for
bocci uniforms. Sorry, Steve.

nrln firirnna in
lgnnr apart find.

flail Stephan.
hltllnri at to-

lilnl nn?h‘iE, v
@lr%a=ttm  
‘iﬂlgt.

 

 

The Generals stand in a posi- ,
tion, despite the early season»

