Ring-111 i

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA.

JANUARY 18, 1994

-SAC suspends FIJI

By Michelle Brien
I’/1i News Editor

0
The Student Affairs Committee voted
Friday to suspend Phi Gamma Delta frater-
nity for 18 months for violation ofthe univer-
sity hazing policy.

SAC voted 11-0 with one abstention to
suspend FIJI. The person abstaining wanted

Ina harsher penalty for the fraternity, said Dean
of Students and SAC Chairman David
Howison. ‘'

FIJI suspension stems from an official
charge of hazing filed by Dean oI‘Freshmen
and Resident Life Dennis Manning.

Ilowison said FIJI can appeal the deci-

osion by submitting a written appeal to Presi-
dent Jolm D. Wilson within II) days. The last
day for I’lJl to file an appeal is Jan. 27.

Ralph “Moke” Wolfe, president of FIJI,
said they will appeal the decision.

“We are appealing because we think the
punishment should fit the crime,” said Wolfe.

(‘The incident did involve hazing, but it was
minor. [SAC] walked in there wanting to
throw a fraternity off campus.”

The suspension means FIJI will not be
permitted to participate in any function as a
fraternity until the end of the 1994-95 aca-
demie year, Howison said. The FIJI fraternity

O house will be closed to all fraternity members

exceptthose currently Iivingthere. FIJI mem-
bers will be allowed to attend other fraterni-
ties’ parties, but will not be allowed to hold
parties at the FIJI house itself or at any other
location.

The hazing charges concern two events

Cwhich allegedly occurred during fall term.

Manning questioned freshman Jay Taggart
abouthazingafterTaggart missed Manning’s
English 105 class forthe fourth time. A fourth
cut from the class meant automatic failure.
Taggart said Manning asked if he had
been at the FIJI house the night before and if

0 there had been a keg present.

“Because of personal convictions I was
not going to lie for the house,” said Taggart.
“I was not mad at anyone in the house, but I

Calyx Photo

FIJI brothers pose for their 1992-93 Calyx Photo. Unless FIJI has a sucessful
appeal they will not be able to gather as a fraternity until July of 1995.

was not going to lie.”

Taggart said the first incident took place
the Monday after Thanksgiving break, Nov.
29. FIJI pledges were asked to report to the
fraternity house at midnight. Taggart said
they were told to lay on the floor ofa down-
stairs room with the lights off. The pledges
were then taken upstairs to the laundry room,
where they knelt facing the wall.

Taggart said they were forced to drink
from a cup of alcohol, and were doused with
beer. Pledges were then taken to the upstairs
bathrooms, told to stand in the showers and
forced to chug cups ofbeer. Then the pledges
went back downstairs to do push-ups in uni-
son.

Taggart said the second incident oc-
curred on the Friday night after the Big Head
Todd concert. Taggart said pledges were
called to the FIJI house at about 1:30 a.m.
They were forced to do “keg shots” for failure
to correctly answer trivia questions about

house history. Taggart said they were also
forced to do push-ups and wall stands. He
said he returned to his room at about 6 a.m.

The Student Conduct Committee is set
to review a case of harassing phone calls in
connection with the incident next week, SCC
President Reggie Aggarwal said. Taggart al-
legedlyreceivedthreatening phonecallsfrom
a member of FIJI. Aggarwal could not give
any further explanation ofthe case because of
SCC confidentiality clauses.

Taggart said he has only commented to
clarify the situation, and he has no hard feel-
ings against FIJI.

“lt wasn’t a vendetta,” Taggart said. “I
didn’t go afterthe house. I didn’t file charges.
Dean Manning never used the fact that I
might fail my class or use the Honor System
[against me].”

“The house got caught for doing some-
thing that’s against Virginia state law and the
policy of the school.”

