 
 

 

’ LEINGTON, VA 244:9

Ho! Ho! Ho!  
Lexington dresses up
for the holidays

DEC 0 6 1993

 

9

Women’s Basketball
debuts at W&L
with heartbreaking loss

 

he ifting-tum lﬂhi  

VOLUME 93, NO. 13

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

  

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring—tum Phi

A student looks at AIDS prevention information during the candlelight vigil, Wednesday.

- AIDS awareness

Students inform students about dangers, myths

0 By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee AIDS Educa-
tion Project helped students observe World
AIDS Day on December 1.

Members of the project put up posters of
1&1 ribbons on white backgrounds around
campus to increase awareness. At an infor-
mation table in front of the co-op, they dis-
tributed information and red ribbons.

“Some students have been really positive,

but when we asked people to wear red rib-I

)1)

bons, many just said ‘No thanks , said mem-
lyr Meriwether Nichols.
The information distributed included the

phone number of the AIDS Hotline, 464-
AIDS (2437). In addition, TV movies And
the Band Played On and Common Threads
played on a VCR were part of the display.

Luminaries placed outside the Leyburn
Library marked the beginning of a candle-
light vigil held at 7 p.m. Students were
encouraged to light candles to show aware-
ness.

Members of the project played public
service announcements about HIV and AIDS,
and continued to distribute information and
ribbons.

Senior Patrick McDerrnott founded the
AIDS Education Project last year.

“My intention was to increase the levels
of education, awareness, and compassion for

people living with AIDS,” he said. “I felt the
issue was too big to be included in the mul-
titude of issues the Health Education Com-
mittee had to deal with. I thought it deserved
a committee or project of its own.”

According to McDermott, the‘Centers for
Disease Control ranked women, heterosexu-
als, college-age students and Southerners as
groups with the fastest spreading rates for
HIV.

“That puts W & L in the crosshairs of this
plague,” said McDermott.

The project has been met with a positive
response from the W&L community.

“We’ve received tremendous support from
the faculty, staff, and students,” said
McDerrnott.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

DECEMBER 3, 1993

Vandals trash

campus, town

By Mrcrnaus BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Not everyone went on vacation last week ———the
Lexington Police and Washington and Lee Secu-
rity were working hard

Nov. 19, the Friday break began, someone broke
over 30 windows on W&L’s campus, continuing a
streak of destruction that started downtown and
continued to VMI.

Head of University Security Mike Young said
someone broke windows in Washington Hall, Howe
Hall and the Howe annex. The windows in Wash-
ington Hall broke when the vandal pulled two air
conditioners out of the windows that ﬂank the rear
entrance to the hall. Young said the vandal prob-
ably broke the other windows with a stick or a
baseball bat in a period of about 20 minutes.

“We found glass inside the class rooms about 20
feet from the windows,” Young said, indicating the
glass had been struck quite hard. Security did not
find any blood, indicating that the vandal did not
smash the windows with his fist.

The windows have already been replaced by
W&L carpenters_. Young said the glass damages
were probably between $300 and $400.

A professor who was working late called secu-
rity at about three a.m., saying that he heard a
strange noise, Young said. At first, security only

found an overtumed trash can, but soon discovered ’

thejbroken windows. Security then called the Lex-
ington Police at 3:16 a.m.

Lexington Police Lieutenant S.E. Crowder said
a vandal also broke the glass door of Wendell’s
barbershop on Jefferson St., and the windshield of
senior Anthony Catalano’s car, which was parked
on Washington St. the same night. r

Crowder said the police suspected VlVlI cadets
of causing the damage. However, a police inter-
view with the suspected cadets proved that they
were innocent. The police investigation is continu-
mg.
VMI Public Relations Representative Colonel
Mike Strickler said that one house on the VMI post

and the guardroom on VMI’s campus had win- I

dows broken_. Strickler said post police left the
investigation to the Lexington Police. Strickler did
not know about the cadets under investigation.
According to Crowder, a vandal also damaged
two businesses in Lexington later in the week, in

ur See VANDALS, page 4

Chi Psi handed
social probation

‘By NIELISSA sAwYE'1z' ‘

t;¢.-.....,time.to_get.i.t.sione.:t2y.stbe,next.

especiallyzhig parties.

Phi Staff Writer

Rape reports drop

By MICHEi..i..E BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Rape and sexual assault edu-
cation programs at Washington
dld Lee may finally be gettingthe
message across to students.

For the last four years, Asso-
ciate Dean of Students and Coun-
seling Psychologist Anne
Schroer-Lamont has conducted
a sexual assault and rape survey

of freshman women.

Of last year’s freshman class
of 155 women, 124 responded to
the survey; an 80 percent re-
sponse rate. The percentage of
responses has been fairly consis-
tent in the four years of the sur-
vey.

Eight women of the 124 who
participated reported they had
been sexually assaulted or raped
after coming to W&L. Two re-
ported they were assaulted at

another school while attending
W&L. That means one out of 15
freshman women was raped or
assaulted.

In the first and second years
of the survey, that number was
one out of seven. In the third
year, there was a decrease to one
out of nine. This year’s number
is the lowest in the history of the
survey.

“That’s progress,” said
Schroer-Lamont. “We did a
whole lot more education last
year than before. It would seem
reasonable to assume that stu-
dents are getting the message.”

Schroer-Lamont emphasized ‘
that the survey is confidential.
Neither victims’ names nor their
attackers’ names are listed any-
where on the survey. Nor are
specific experience descriptions
used or published anywhere other
than in the survey report.

She also stressed the survey
probably does not give a com-
plete picture of sexual assault on
campus. Not all freshman women

Chi Psi has received social
probation for the third time this
year

The fraternity received the
penalty for failing to clean their
house after pre-Thanksgiving
parties.

Chi Psi President John Hudson
said the fraternity has a hard time
getting the house cleaned, but
emphasized the penalty was not
the result of a “lodge destruc-
tion” as in the case of Phi Kap
earlier thisyear. Because Chi Psi
is not a part of the fraternity re-

_ naissance project, it doesn't have

a contract with a cleaning ser-
vice. Therefore, the responsibil-
ity of cleaning the house rests
solely with the brothers and
pledges. Hudson says this is
sometimes difficult and the mem-
bers don’t always have enough

morning (the deadline stipulated

‘by the Housing Corporation).

Hudson said the fraternity is al-
ways cleaned at least by the next
evening.

Chi Psi’s Housing Corpora-
tion President handed down the
punishment which puts them on
social probation for two weeks in
January. The penalty was origi-
nally four weeks, but the broth-
ers agreed to do some special

clean-up activitieswhich allowed ,

them to avoid the final two weeks.

Hudson said that the inspec-
tor who wrote up the report told
him the penalty was not designed
to make the house suffer, but was
handed down to make the mem-
bers get the building cleaned up
on time.

Chi Psi is due to receive a
cleaning service by September
of next year. The house cur-
rently receives cleaning services
once or twice a month before

, Photo by ethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
SAB workers outside the Co-op, selling tickets for Big Head Todd, the second annual Christmas concert.

Big Head Todd hits Pavilion tonight

Hudson blamed the problems
that have plagued Chi Psi partly
on the InterFratemity Council.
He said the IFC gave his house
the previous social probationary
period because the house had not
registered a party. Hudson, how-
ever, said many people believed
his house had received the pro-
bation because of the nature of
the party—- a hall crawl at which
a partygoer reportedly got sick.

“The IFC policy on hall crawls
is unclear,” Hudson said.

He claimed the council needs
to enforce rules and penalties
more consistently, and the coun-
cil needs to specify the offense to
allof the houses, not just the one
in question. Without consistent
enforcement, he said, the IFC
seems to be picking on certain
houses.

is See CHI PSI, page 4

participated in the survey, and of
the women who participated, not
all may have reported incidents
of rape or sexual harassment.

Only freshman women par-
ticipate in the survey, which
means the experience of
upperclass women are not calcu-
lated.

The survey includes graphic

i» see SURVEY, Page 3

ByYABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Reporter

Big Head Todd and the Monsters will
rock the Pavilion tonight at SAB’s revival of
Christmas Weekend concerts.

The Monsters with Michelle Malone will
kick—off the night at 8:30.Tickets can be
purchased in advance for $10 or at the door
for $12. The band features guitarist,
keyboardist and vocalist Todd Parker Mohr;
bassist and backup vocalist Rob Squires and

drummer and backup vocalist Brian Nevin.

According to John Kleckley, SAB
chariman, Big Head Todd was SAB’s first
choice for Christmas Weekend entertainment.
Kleckley said SAB had wanted Big Head
Todd to appear Homecoming, but due to the
band’ s busy schedule they were unable to do
so.

Among the band’s releases is their latest
CD from Giant Records,SisterSweetly, which
includes the hit “Broken Hearted Saviour.”

Earlier this year, Big Head Todd and the

Monsters appeared in the H.O.R.D.E. festi-
val (Horizons of Rock Developing Every-
where) along with Widespread Panic, Blues
Traveller, Col. Bruce Hampton and the
Aquarium Rescue Unit, Allgood and the
Samples. Sophomore Erika Van Helden saw
them.

“They’re great. I’m definitely going,”
she commented.

Sophomore Chris Scheve, who has never
heard of Big Head Todd, said “I’m going
because of Michelle Malone, she’s great.”

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

(World AIDS Day observed

Governments around the world acknowledged World AIDS
Day Thursday by calling for better education and prevention
methods. The World Health Organization has estimated that
13 million people worldwide are infected with HIV. Accord-
ing to WHO, that figure may triple in the next seven years.

The Nation

Shuttle embarks on mission to
fix disabled Hubble telescope

After a day’s worth of delays, the space shuttle Endeavor
Thursday embarked on its mission to repair the Hubble Space

 

Telescope. The shuttle carried seven astronauts and 11 new .

parts for the telescope into orbit. The astronauts are expected
to make five spacewalks to repair the telescope, which suffers
from failed gyroscopes and a defective reflecting mirror,
among other things. The shuttle’s mission will span over 11
days.

Polar bear attacks, mauls man

Those crazy polar bears are at it again.

A man who was watching television at an Air Force radar
station in Anchorage, Alaska Wednesday was rather sur-
prised when an 8-foot polar bear peered in the window. The
man, Donald Chaffm, attempted to shoo the huge beast away
with a rolled-up newspaper.

Big mistake.

The polar bear crashed through the window and attacked
Chaffin, mauling his face, neck and chest before another -man
could shoot it to death. Chaffin was listed in serious condition
at an Anchorage hospital Wednesday.

Subpoenas issued in Jackson case

’ Twelve people were subpoenaed .'l‘hursday in the Michael
Jackson sexua 4
report to police for questioning in the case. Police questioned
Ben Brown, a longtime Jackson associate, on Thursday.
Brown told reporters that he has known the J acksons for 25
years and thought Michael Jackson’s‘ close association with
children would leave him open for allegations of sexual
abuse. Brown is publishing a book on the J acksons called “In
the Eye of the Storm,” to be released next year.

Officials examine penalties for
violations of new Brady Law

Washington officials are looking into the possibility that
gun sellers may ignore the 5-day waiting period required by
the newly-enacted Brady Law. The Brady Law states that
gun sellers can lose their license for six months and be fined
up to $5,000 if they ignore the 5-day waiting period or fail to
send in background check documents on a gun purchaser.
Twenty-seven states will have to comply with the Brady Law.
The other 23 already perform background checks on gun
purchasers and are exempt. '

U.S. Senators press for violent

. video game rating system

Video games may be subject to a rating system if two
United States senators have their way. Senator Joseph
Lieberman of Connecticut and Senator Herbert Kohl of
Wisconsin voiced concerns about violent video games, par-
ticularly Mortal Kombat and Night Trap, two titles distrib-
uted by Sega. Lieberman said he preferred that Congress ban
the video games, but added that they are constitutionally
protected under the First Amendment. Bob Keeshan, a.k.a.
TV’s Captain Kangaroo, offered support of the two senators
at a press conference on Wednesday. Sega claims that it
already rates its video games.

The Statezifﬁ

Sara Lee jury duty case resolved

A federal judge Wednesday ordered the Sara Lee Corpo-
ration to reinstate an employee who claimed that he was fired
because he was assigned to a lengthy term of jury duty. U.S.

District Judge James Michael, Jr. ordered Sara Lee to pay

back wages and rehire Andrew Perkins, who was fired after
he spent five weeks on jury duty in a drug case. Federal law
prohibits an employer from ﬁring an employee on grounds
related to j ury duty. Sara Lee was also assessed a $3,000 fine
for violating the law.

Larouche to be released in Jan.

Lyndon Larouche is anxiously awaiting his release from
federal custody next month. Larouche, who has run for
president every four years since 1976, has been serving a 15-
year sentence for mail fraud and conspiracy, crimes he
committed in illegally raising campaign funds.

By ETHAN KRUPP
A Phi Staff Writer

Beta Theta Pi: Uncle Mingo at the
Boiler Room on Saturday with Phi
Delta Theta

Chi Psi: Cocktail party with faculty
on Friday afternoon. Band party with
The Purple Schoolbus on Saturday.

Delta Tau Delta: Christmas theme
cocktail and dinner party on Saturday

Kappa Alpha: Band party with the

T I
Santa brings festivities ~

Stegmonds on Saturday

Kappa Sigma: Before and after con-
cert parties on Friday

Tape party on Saturday

Lambda Chi Alpha: Tape party on
Friday

Band party with Doug Clark & the
Hot Nuts

Phi Delta Theta: Uncle Mingo at the
Boiler Room on Saturday with Beta
Theta Pi

Phi Gamma Delta: Gift exchange,

    

The Ring-tum Phl. December 3. 1993

followed by dinner and party on Satur-
day. Christmas party with Kappa for
area kids on Sunday.

Phi Kappa Psi: Band party with
New Potato Caboose on Saturday

Phi Kappa Sigma: Cocktail and din-
ner party on Saturday

Pi Kappa Alpha: Band party with
Lost in the Supermarket on Saturday

Pi Kappa Phi: Cocktail party before
concert on Friday

Cocktail and dinner party followed

by band party with On Beyond Z

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Faculty cock-
tail party on Friday

Band party with Three Gentlemen .
and a Lady on Saturday

Sigma Chi: Band party with the
Fredds on Saturday

Sigma Nu: Faculty cocktail party
on Friday

Formal party on Saturday

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Band party with '
Alchemy on Saturday

Wills speaks on Declaration

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-m

Wills speaks on the Declaration of Independence In Lee Chapel

 

By DEBORAH ZOLLMAN
Phi Contributing Writer

On Tuesday at 8 p.m., Washington
and Lee welcomed Atlanta-bom Gary
Wills, professor, writer, and lecturer to
Lee Chapel.

Wills received his Ph.D. in Classics
from Yale in 1961, wrote 17 books,

and received the Pulitzer prize for his

latest book, Lincoln at Gettysburg.
Wills began his speech asking the
audience, “Which Declaration of Inde-
pendence do we read?” He explained
there are actually three Declarations of
Independence rather than the one we
acknowledge on the Fourth of July
each year. A
Jefferson’s original draft ofthe dec-
laration was the first. This draft in-
cluded several passages on slavery that
Wills quoted, which were not included
in_ the second version of the declara-
tion. The second version of the Decla-
ration of Independence resulted when
Congress edited J efferson’s original.
Wills contended that the declara-
tion we read today is the one Lincoln
read. Lincoln’s' Gettysburg Address is

“a normative document to tell how we.
should interpret the Constitution.” Lin-
coln reread Jefferson’s declaration.
Possibly, he misread J efferson’s docu-
ment to make it more encompassing
“Political misreading is common

throughout history and often leads to .

positive results,” he said. Q

Wills said the Gettysburg Address
was “the third most important docu-
ment in our nation’s history because it
made the other two [the Declaration of
Independence and the Constitution]
more important.”

Wills continued, saying this was
not a bad thing historically. He said,
“Jefferson me ant to mean more than he
meant” when he was writing the Dec-
laration of Independence. He went on
to answer the question he began with,
stating “itis his [Lincoln’ s] declaration
that is read, because it is ours.” V

Will s remained to answer questions
from audience members. Some ques-
tions which were fielded had to do with
the relationship of Jefferson’s ideol-
ogy and John Locke’s, the nineteenth
century trend of consciousness of
progress, and the idea of an aristocratic
society embracing egalitarian ideals.

Mock Convention readies for ‘96

.moles_tatio.n case. Aiioftherlwas 'ordered to‘

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

Planning forthe 1996 Mock Convention isunder-

way.

The event, which every election yearmakes Wash-
ington and Lee the focus of national political and
media attention, is designed to accurately predict the
presidential candidate of the opposition party.

The Washington and Lee Mock Convention is the
most accurate of its- kind. Out of the past twenty
conventions, the studentsof W&L' have accurately

predicted the nominee fifteen times. The event is a ‘

$250,000 production attended by news broadcasters
such as NBC, CBS, CNN, and The McNeil-Lehrer
Report.

The first meeting for the 1996 Republican Con-
vention was held on Wednesday, Nov. 17. More
than100 students attended this informational session

where they were shown footage of past conventions
and given applications for the three major positions
on the Mock Convention Committee: General Chair-
man, Political Chairman and Personnel Chairman.
The tri-chair applications were due on Friday,
Nov. 19. Ted Elliot, one of the selection committee
members, cautioned potential applicants.
“I wasn’t even a tri-chair, and I spent about 35—
hours a week working on the convention,”he warned.
Sarah Butler, also a selection committee member,
added the planning process is also “lots of fun.”
The first round oftri -‘chair candidates were chosen

over Thanksgiving Break. The‘ final selection will be i

made after an extensive interview process culminat-
ing next term.

Another selection committee member, Tim
Moorhead, said the 1996 convention will be as differ-
ent from past conventions in as much as the tri-chairs
want it to be. He said, however, “it will be the first

Republican convention in sixteen years.”

Moorhead expects student interest to be greatef
because the student body is predominantly Republi-
can.
Moorhead said there are opportunities for leader-
ship for both sophomores and freshmen. At the
informational meeting, however, Elliot discouraged
freshmen from applying for the tri-chair positions.
He said freshmen would be unlikely to fulfill th!
requirements of those positions: full-time commit-
ment to the committee, aworking knowledge of
Republican politics and viable connections within ‘
the ‘party, as well as’ excellent communication, mana-
gerial, and writing skills. Elliot added that nearly
every student participates in some way.

One task of the tri-chairs is to secure speakers fo’
the event. Past conventions have hosted such speak-
ers as Tip O’Neill, Michael Dukakis, Mario Cuomo,
Jimmy Carter, Richard Nixon, and Barry Goldwater.

Publicity Photo

Director Roseanne Combrooks (‘94) makes a last-minute adjustment to Jason Shaffer’s ('97) costume prior to rehearsal. The
Lady's Not for Burning will show December 3-8. Call the Lenfest Center Box Office for ticket information: 463-8000.

Lenfest Center to host witch hunt t

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Most seniors slave over papers for
their senior research projects, but not
senior Roseanne Combrooks.

Combrooks has been slaving over
The Lady’s Not For Burning for her
senior thesis project. Combrooks is an
English and theatre major. _

The play, put on by the Washington
and Lee Theatre Department, was writ-
ten by Christopher Fry.

“We think he’s still alive,” said
Combrooks.

Fry often wrote about the darker
side of life, but tempered his writing
with humor and wit.

The play, a romance/comedy, is set
in the fifteenth century when Thomas
Mendip (played by senior Jeff Mikita),
a young man who has been fighting in
Flanders for seven years, is discharged
from the army and goes to the town of

Cool Clary.

Upon arriving in town, he goes to a
pub where he hears about a witch hunt.
Thomas decides to intervene and save
the witch,whom he has not met. When
he does meet her, he is struck by the
beautiful accused witch Jennet
Jourdemayne (played by sophomore
Jeanne Dillon).

Although Thomas starts out as a
disillusioned soldier, he ends up fall-
ing for (surprise!) Jennet.

The play, however, does not totally
center around Jennet and Thomas.

“It’s very much an ensemble piece,”
said Combrooks.

Lady takes place in the rooms of
Mayor Hebble Tyson (James Scales,
‘93L), who has two nephews, Nicolas
(Denis Riva, ‘97) and Humphrey (Brian
McClung, ‘95). The nephews along
with the clerk, Richard (John Boyd,
‘96) all fall in love Alizon (Dana
Lawrence, ‘94).

Together the characters bring the
play together in funny antics, while the
play explores life’s meanings on a
deeper level.

‘‘I’ve learned a lot,” said Combrooks
of her project.

Senior Jeff Mlkita and Sophomore Jeanne Dlllon In costume j

Performance dates for The Lady’s

Not For Burning are December 3, 4, 6

and 8’ at 8:00 p.m.; and December 4 at
2:00 p.m. Tickets are on sale at the
Lenfest Box Office (463-8000).

 

Publicity Photo

I

 

0
AGE3

The Rlng-tum Phl, December 3, 1993

I’ eporting rape can be traumatic too

RAPE, from page 1

Everyone encourages victims of
. apnand sexual assault to report what
1 appened to them to the police or cam-
us judicial bodies.
But it’s not hard to understand why
ot many do.
Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard
. aid the police complaint process takes
bout two hours. Although the police
ry to make the process as easy and as
- nsitive as possible, the very nature of
he crime calls for the police to ask
some difficult, graphic questions.
Beard explained the process a rape
ictim undergoes at the police station
he%Vshe comes in to report a rape.
“ e try to calm the victim as much
as possible and then we try to get a
epresentative of the Rockbridge Area
Coalition Against Sexual Assault to
ome in and sit with the woman.
“We also like for the victim to come
'n with a close friend or relative. We
1 ave to file a report, and if it’s possible
e have our female officer take the
I eport,” said Beard.
“It’s a rather detailed report. The
ictim has to be examined by a doctor.
ey gather evidence (such as semen
nd blood samples) that has to be sent
awaf [to be analyzed]. We keep the
ictim’s underclothing. If there is a
uspect we’ll call him in and take evi-
ence from him, and keep his under-
lothing. I’m sure that’s embarrassing
: or the victim to have to go through.
“We have to ask some embarassing
o uemions. That’s why we try to get the
emale officer to take the report. We
I ave to ask if penetration took place;

that’s one of the main questions.We
also have to ask if she resisted and
advised him that she didn’t want to
participate,” he said.

Beard said the woman will spend at
least an hour at the hospital and at least
an hour at the police station. And that is
at the beginning of a long trial process.

If the police can get probable cause
on a suspect when the report is made,
they get a warrant through the magis-
trate and arrest the man as soon as
possible.

Beard said the time from the arrest
to the actual trial date varies from case
to case. _

“It depends on how many witnesses
you have to subpoena and how long it
takes to get the lab results back, and
how many times the defendant asks for
a continuation,” Beard said.

“The attorney tries to dig up new
evidence —he’ll do everything he can
to get the defendant off. Maybe a wit-
ness will perjure him/herself with an
alibi. There may be some tests that the
defense conducts that take some time
to get results back,” he said.

Beard added the trial almost always
depends on attorneys and not the wit-
nesses.

“They’ll do everything they can to
get the victim upset and confused,”
Beard said. He said he thought women
judges and lawyers would probably be
more understanding.

“ [The woman] becomes a victim in
two ways,” Beard said, “through the
attacker and through the judicial sys-
tem. I’m not saying the judicial system
iswrong, but it needs to be overhauled.”

Washington and Lee also offers sev-

5

I Cases of rape reported to Lexington police in the past 10 yeari]

PC

eral options for rape victims who re-
port their attackers.

The first step is to go to Associate
Dean of Students and University Me-
diator Anece McCloud. McCloud ex-
plains the possible options to the vic-
tims. Victims can go to the police or
ask to be referred to the Student Fac-
ulty Hearing Board. If the victim is not
ready to move to either of those steps,
McCloud offers them the options of
mediation or simply not doing any-
thing.

If the victim wants to go to the
police, she follows the procedure Beard
outlined above.

If the victim decides to go to the

Student denied abuse

By MIGIELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Rape and sexual assault appear to be crimes that are
egsily definable. Surely, a woman would immediately
know if she were being sexually assaulted or raped.

Not necessarily.

Take the case of Elizabeth. (She requested only her
first name be used.) During her freshman year, she dated
a Virginia Military Institute cadet for a period of four
months. In that time, her boyfriend manipulated her
emotionally in order to gain sex from her.

“He was very abusive in subtle ways,” Elizabeth said.
“He was manipulative and aggressive, but not physically

violent.

“It wasn’t something that happened right as we started
dating. It was a long time brewing,” she said.
She explained her boyfriend also used scare tactics to

gain sex from her.

“He used to argue me around and around. He used to
stare me down, 15 to 20 minutes just staring at me. After
hours and hours of arguing I would do anything to be
back to normal. That’s what he used—my need for peace
and quiet. To get back to normal, we had to have sex.

“I remember being bruised after having sex with him.

court.

program.

another ’ 5.

There would be [black and blue] finger marks on my
ribcage where he had held me,” Elizabeth said.

She said she knew she wasn’t happy in the relation-
ship, and the two fought constantly. But she said it was
not until her gender roles class discussed date rape that
she realized what had happened to her. «

“It was like a car accident [I was in], ” Elizabeth said.
“As long as the car stopped moving; anything to make it
stop. For me, that was sex.”

Elizabeth admitted her case would be hard to prove in

“I don’t have anything that I could use [in my de-
fense],” Elizabeth said. “No pictures, no evidence, no
witnesses, nothing.”

But she does have the emotional evidence of abuse.

“It’s hard to deal with,” she said. “I certainly denied
it. Even when I knew what it was called I denied it. I had
a physiological response: migraines. I didn’t start coun-
seling until months later.” ‘

Elizabeth also joined a confidential group counseling

Her case exemplifies why so many women are afraid
to go to the police or to University systems to report their
attackers —— it’s simply one person’s word against

is Christmas
Week-end

Reservations not accepted
Walk-ins Welcome

NEW!

Group Take-out Dinners -
You can serve your own dinner,
complete with Salad, Garlic Bread &
Dessert. You can feed a group of your
friends for as low as $5.00 a person.
Call us at least 24 hours in advance,
and see what we can do for you.

Run

and ‘.7(e.staurant

 /

- Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights  4
‘: Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen, ° ‘
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. ‘“

Room ﬁlled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”
Special Fall / Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00

Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

Schedule your holiday parties Now!
_. Giﬁ Certiﬁcates & Holiday Packages Now Available . _
' ' Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) H i
5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. ‘
Call fo reservations: 703-463-9715

SFHB, she fills out a Form for Report-
ing of Sexual Misconduct. The woman
is asked to give the name of the attacker
and the type of sexual misconduct. She
is then asked to desribe what happened
and list witnesses ifpossible. Then the
accused is asked to come to McCloud’ s
office. McCloud explains to the ac-
eused’what the charge is against him
and tells him the case is going before
the SFHB.

After that she prepares a memoran-
dum and sends it to the SFHB.

Fromtherethe SFHBhandlesthings.

Cecile West-Settle, who heads the
SFHB, said after the committee re-
ceives the accuser’s written complaint,
the committee appoints coordinators
who contact the accused. The coordi-
nators help both the complainant and
the accused to contact advisers. Advis-
ers can be any student within the W&L
community, and are usually law stu-
dents. The accused then has 48—hours
to prepare his statement and to submit
a witness list to the committee.

After the accused has submitted his
report, the parties swap statements. The
complainant then has 48—hours to ad-
just her list of witnesses in accordance
with the accused’s statement. After
everybody is done revising, witness
lists are exchanged. The SFHB then
chooses which witnesses will testify
and a trial date is set. Character wit-
nesses are excluded from the hearing
and only those witnesses who can tes-
tify as to the actual event are asked to
come. The accused and the complain-
ant cannot talk to each other’s wit-
nesses before the trial.

“This is to ensure due process,” said
West-Settle. “We are not a vigilante
squad. Our role is to assure that when
there is a hearing involving sexual mis-
conduct that we be fair to both parties
involved.”

McCloud emphasized that the pro-
ceedings are confidential. All parties
involved are advised that discussing

E. Nelson St., Lexington

7/Ede‘?/aéce

HARDWARE STORES 9’

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

463-2186

Carava

Virginia Beach

Lexington

Norfolk

the complaint or the names of wit-
nesses is a violation of the harassment
policy. Section 5 j. of that policy states
students violating that policy may be
sanctioned by the SFHB. McCloud
added that no action is taken beyond
what the accuser requests, so the SFHB
could never bring someone to a pro-
ceeding of its own accord.

Both West-Settle and McCloud
stressed that the University procedure
does not determine criminal guilt or
innocence. Only the court system can
do that. The SFHB hearing is to deter-
mine if the accused broke the behavior
codes of the university, and if so, what
action should be taken. The SFHB can
impose punishments including but not
limited to counseling, probation, sus-
pension or dismissal.

Decisions can be appealed by deliv-
ering a written appeal to the Appeals
Board. The Board consists of the Dean
of Students, the president of the Execu-
tive Committee, and the senior faculty
member of the Student Affairs Com-
mittee. The accused has 72—hours after
the SFHB decision to deliver his ap-
peal to the Dean of Students. Grounds
for appeal include: penalty too harsh,
new information, or lack of due pro-
cess.

McCloud and West-Settle also noted
that victims of sexual assault who at-
tend other schools but are assaulted at
W&L can also use the W&L judiciary
system. However, members of the
W&L community who are assaulted
on other campuses cannot. So, for ex-
ample, if a woman from Sweet Briar
were assaulted by a W&L male she
could try him through the W&L sys-
tem. But if a W&L woman were sexu-
ally assaulted by a University of Vir-
ginia male, she could not try him
through W&L. She would have to go
through UVa systems.

The University also offers several
counseling options for rape or sexual
assault victims. The University hastwo
professional counselingpsychologists:
James Worth and Associate Dean of
Students Anne Schroer-I..amont. Peer
counselors are available anytime and
their names are on posters around cam-
pus. The University also has a confi-
dential support group for victims of
rape and sexual assault. Lexington and
Rockbridge County also offer support
for victims through organizations like
Rockbridge Area Coalition Against
Sexual Assault (RACASA) and Project
Horizon, a support group for victims of
domestic violence and assault.

to SURVEY, from page 1

definitions of rape and sexual as-
saultderived fromthe criminal code
of Virginia. Rape isdefined as sexual
intercourse without consent by use
of threat, force, intimidation or due
to physical helplessness or mental
incapacity of victim in which pen-
etration occurs. Sexual assault is
defined as touching intimate parts
or clothing covering intimate parts
(genitalia, anus, groin, breast, but-
tocks) by use of threat, force or
intimidation or due to mental inca-
pacity or helplessness of victim or
forcing the victim to touch intimate
parts of the accused offender.
Schroer-Lamont said using the
state definitions of rape and sexual
assault helps to give substance and
credibility to the survey. She said
researchers should always use the _
legal definition of rape and sexual
assault. The survey has used the
state definitions all four years that it
has run, helping to keep inconsis-
tencies, due to differently phrased
questions, out of the survey.
Schroer-Lamont said using the
state definitions of rape and sexual
assault from the state legal code can
help a woman identify what hap-
pened. She explained a woman may

Campus rapes drop

feel something wrong or bad hap-
pened to her, but might not know
how to define it.

“Most 18 or 19-year-old women
won’t be familiar with the law in
their own state,” said Schroer-
Lamont.

Seven women who responded to
the survey said they had been raped
before coming to. W&L. However,
two of those seven incidents oc-
curred while the women visited
W&L as prospective students.

“That landed in the column for
[assaults that happened] prior to
W&L, but it was W&L men who
did it,” said Schroer-Lamont.

Seventeen women reported they
had been sexually assaulted prior to
coming to W&L. That number is a
large increase from previous years.
Only six respondents reported as-
saults before coming to W&L in the
first and second years of the survey,
and llrreported incidents prior to
coming to W&L in the third year.

“We can conclude that sexual
assault has moved down into the
high schools and the junior highs
and that reporting incidents has be-
come more acceptable,” said
Schroer-Lamont.

Of the 17 reported incidents,
eight occurred during childhood at
the age of 12 or younger.

Horse Boarding

Excellent turnout with Private
Paddocks. Two miles from the
Virginia Horse Center on 39 West.
Riding lessons with Certified
Instructor. Trails, Flood-lit arena. Call
(703) 463-1636 and leave a message.

FREE!!!

SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & G0
Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus reps.

‘ Call 800-648-4849. I

I0:

Merrg Christmas and
a ‘Happg blew year
from the gang at the
Palms!

101 W. Nelson
465-7911
Open: Mon. - Fri. 11:50 am. ~ 12:50 am.
’ Sat. 12 - 1 Sun. 12 - 10:50

  

PAGE 4

Vandals

damage

W&L and VMI

DVANDALS, from page 1

what was possibly a related incident.
On the night of Nov. 23, both the
Willson-Walker House and Sunday’s
Child on Main Street were vandalized.
The vandal damaged the menu chalk-
board in front of Willson-Wal ker House
and flower pots in front of Sunday’s
Child.

Crowder said that the vandalism of
Lee Chapel in which toilet paper was
wrapped around the Chapel’s doors
and surroundin g trees was not reported
to police.

In other police news, the cops did
have a bit of good luck while we were
gone.

Police arrested a thief who stole
compact disks from W&L students’
cars earlier this term.

According to W&L Head of Secu-
rity Mike Young, the cops nabbed the
thief thanks to information provided
by W&L Security Officer Larry
Stewart. The Lexington Police officer
who handled the case, Gary Coleman,
had not responded to six phone calls at
press time.

The Lexigton Police also reported
the return of the runaway child they
searched for just before Thanksgiving
break. The boy came back to his par-
ents’ house at about 8: 15 a.m. on Nov.
18. The boy told his father he had been
hiding in a clump of pine trees. Crowder
said there is a dense clump ofpine trees

near the Lime Kiln Area where the
police made their helicopter search.
Police couldn’t see him from the heli-
copter because the trees blocked their
view.

In county police news, one W&L
student returned home from break to
find to local youths had illegaly en-
tered his house.

Senior Jeb Tilly said he returned to
Lexingtonaday earlyfrombreak.When
he got to his Rte. 1 home, he discovered
someone had broken down the door.
He heard something moving around
upstairs and decided to investigate.

“I walked up the stairs and flicked
on the light,” Tilly said. “I saw a girl
hiding in the closet. That’s when a guy
who had been hiding behind the door
bolted.

“I fought with him for about ten
minutes as I was trying to keep him
from escaping,” Tilly said. “Then, as I
was trying to open my room up to call
the police, he attacked me. He pulled a
ﬂashlight out ofhis coat, ran at me and
tried to hit me. But before he could hit
me I grabbed the flashlight out of his
hand and beat him five or six times
over the head with his own flashlight.
But while Ihad him bent over he hit me
in the nuts and ran out the door. I threw
the ﬂashlight at him but I missed.”

Tilly said he filed a report with the
county police. The sheriffs finger-
printed and took photographs.

The county police did not respond
to six phone calls made to the sheriffs’
office as of press time.

Faculty to vote
on mid-fall break

BY THOMAS Haspos
Phi News Editor

What would you do with a four-day
break from classes in the middle of
October?

Well start thinking.

“The Faculty Executive
Committee...voted to implement a Fall
break,” said Dean of Students David
Howison.

According to Howison, the Faculty
EC voted in favor of a break from
classes on a Thursday and Friday in
October, thus giving students a four-

11S. Jefferson S

Kitchen Lizards playing on Friday, Dec. 3
9 p.m. $3 cover charge

day long weekend. The additional break
wouldrrot take time away from other
breaks. The Faculty EC’s recommen-
dation will go before the entire faculty
on Monday.

The break has been approved in
principle, but now must meet the ap-
proval of the faculty when they meet
on Monday.

“The faculty must approve any
changes in calendar,” said Howison.

Howison said a three-day weekend
was voted down last year by the fac-
ulty, but this year’s proposal showed
“strong support in the Faculty EC.”

463-2595

THE
SANDWICH SHOP

EMPLOYMENT

OPPORTUNITY

ALASKA SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
FISHERIES - Students Needed! Many
earn 52,000+/mo. in canneries or
$3,000-56,000+/mo. on fishing
vessels. Many employers provide
room I: board 4: transportation.
Over 8,000 openings. No exp.
necessary! Male or Female. Get the
necessary head start on next
summer. For more information call:
1-206-545-4155 ext. A5342
Student Employment Services

    

- .- INTERNATIONAL .

  

EMPLOYMENT . '
Make up to $2,000-$4,000+ per
month teaching basic
conversational English abroad.
Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea.
Many employers provide room
8: board + other benefits. No
teaching background or Asian
languages required. For more

information call:
(206) 632-1 146 Ext. J5342

 

pen ‘til Midnight
7 days a week

Get a lot at a prlce that's not.

 

«.~.w.~ IVVVVVVV w.~.~.. <n~v.~v AAAAAAA

gr.

-$JAAAA

Buy one 12" sub and get a 6" sub of equal
or lesser value Free. Otter good thru Dec. 17th -
Just In tlme time for those long study nlghts.
503 E. Nelson St., Lexlngton, Va. 463-3322

mlt: One coupon per customer per vlslt Not good with any other offer. 

 
 
 

l
I
l
E

. ...r

  

The Hing-tum Phl, December 3, 1993

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi;

New-fangled Christmas decorations

Chi Psi ,
gets third
probation

I->CHl PSI, frompage 1 ’

Chi Psi has been cited for three
violations so far this year. Hudson said
that while the house’s location and
proximity to campus is certainly a fac-
tor, few IFC members’ houses seem to
have received similar penaltiOs.
Hudson said “people are still breaking
the rules. We just seem to get caught
more often.”

IFCVice PresidentRyan Donaldson
said certain houses consistently don't
register their parties.

“The IFC does not try to target ﬁe-
cific houses,” he said.

Donaldson said the IFC members
just want to do their job.

“I don’t think they play favorites,”
he said.

Donaldson said the IFC did try to
cut the houses some slack in regardsto
party registrations.

Hudson said the IFC seems to en-
force hazing violations in a similarly
sporadic way.

“People are always getting away
with stuff,” he said. “Some houses
have reduced hazing in the last three
years, but people are still breakingghe
rules.” '

Atan IFCmeetingonTuesday night,
however, the council emphasized that
the rules prohibiting fraternities from
having kegswill beenforced, aswell as
the deferred pledgeship mles. The coun-
cil asked the fraternities’ represeQta—
tives to comment on the enforcement
procedures for violations. Nobody re-
sponded.

Dean of Students for Greek Affairs
Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said Christmas
weekend is traditionally an especially
hard time for pledges, and that the rﬂles
would be enforced. Atkins‘ empha-
sized that some of the traditional ac-
tivities like scavenger hunts and Christ-
mas tree patrols should not be encour-
aged, because they encourage honor
violations and criminal behavior. The /
brothers “should be providing supeUvi-

 

Lee Chapel found itself decorated for the holidays in ribbons of toilet paper. The paper was said-
wrapped around the Chapel doors and nearby trees late Sunday night. Lexington Police said
that no complaints have been filed. Police added that since the Chapel was not actually
damaged, they could only file a complaint without taking any action.

sion and guidance to the pledges,” he

as the GPA requirement for fraternity
membership and the submission of
written pledge programs would also
stringently enforced. .

EIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE

‘  TRIPS AND MONEY!! A 5 ~ =

.lndividuals and Student Organiza- EBEACH Spnngbreak Promoter’;

, tions wanted to promote the Hottes [3 Small 01' large groups. E
Spring Break Destinations, call the E - E
nation’s leader. Inter-Campus E S8z(i)I(1)d CASH! E

Pro rarns 1-800-327-6013. « E 8 - -423-5264 E

g I ﬁlllIIIIIIllIllllllllIIIllIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllll-IE

Stonewall Jackson Museum Shop will
be open Wednesday night,
December 8, from 4-8 p.m. for your
shopping convenience.

 

Stonewall Jackson House Museum Shop
8 East Washington Street

#—-t IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

- Q Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing,
Accessories

  

Lois of
New  
Holidau
Dresses!

appugoilllo»

23 N. Main St. Lexington, VA
Mon. - Sat. 10 - 5:30 463-5988

 

What To Get M om, Dad, or Aunt Suzie for Christmas?

Personalized Note Cards with Matching Envelopes - $25.00
Also, let us custom design party invitations for your holiday affairs.
Come See Us — We'll Make You Look Good!

3 PHONE: 463- 1712 - FAX: (703) 463 -6918
125 W. NELSON STREET - LEXINGTON - ACROSS FROMTI-EEPOSTOFFICE .

  

 

W&L Bookstore
Moonlight Madness Sale!

Wednesday, Dec. 8
7-10 p.m.

20% Off ALMOST Everything j

(except music, textbooks, film 8: sundries)

DOOR PRIZES! FUN!
Daylight Madness (20% Off all daylong)

Marlene’s

Let us give you Beautiful hair & nails for
» the Holiday Season.

Acrylic nails — full set - $40
Silk Wraps - full set - $35
French manicure - $15
Regular manicure - $12

 

Mar1ene’s is the only shop in the area that does
weaves! Starting at $50.

25 N. Main St. 463-6003

O0OOOOOOOOOOOOFOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

Monday, Dec. 20 4

Join us for dinner Christmas

9

 
   
  

WILLSON- __
WALKER
HOUSE

Restaurant

30 N. Main Street, Lexington, Virginia
Reservations recommended. Call 463-3020 s

 

  

Atkins stated that other rules, such "

The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1993 2 4 E ‘ PAGE 5

It’s: 61 wonderful Lexington

   

l

Development group brings holiday cheer to downtown

    

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

.
_ ‘ Photo courtesy of Francesca Kefalas, The Ring-tum P/1i
Detember nights on Main Street mean brightly lit trees and street lamps ringed with wreaths. Some dowtown businesses are also offering special discounts as part of the Lexington holiday spirit.

   

The Christmas season is only one of

By DEBORAH ZOLLMANN the times when the LDDA is highly
Phi C°“"lb“‘l“g w"l‘°’ noticable in Lexington. Other events
which they sponsor include the Hal-
_ _ loween trick-or-treating for the chil-
BY thls “me y°“’Ve Probably 110' dren, an employee appreciation day in
‘iced l-he Wreaths and llghts deooratlng the winter, an Easter Workshop at the
downtown L°Xln810n- If You,“ like library for children, a Fourth of July

most Studems at W&L thouﬁha YOU,” parade, a summer concert series, and
probably unaware of where these deco— an August sidewalk Sa1e_

rations are coming from. The Lexing-
ton Downtown Development Associa-
tion is responsible.

During this holiday season a lot
more is planned for Lexington than
white lights and Christmas wreaths.
Beginning this Friday at 5:00, there
will hardly be a dull moment. The
following events are planned for the
next month.

Friday, December 3, at 5:00 there
will be a’ tree-lighting ceremony at
Hopkins Green. The VMI and W&L
Glee Clubs will be performing for the
event.

Saturday, December 4, there will be
a parade through town at 1:00.

Wednesday, December 8, there will
be student and cadet shopping discounts
at local stores, which will stay open
until eight.

Saturday, December 11, there will
be a Cookie Cottage Workshop at the
library for Lexington’schildren. There
will also be carolling from 11:00 to
2:30 in downtown Lexington.

Sunday, December 12, there will be
Open Houses at area shops for the
twelth hour of the twelfth day of the
twelfth month. There will be 12%
discounts at some stores and special
brunch menus.

Wednesday, December 15, there
will be a Ladies Night. Free babysitting
will be provided and women can regis-
ter so their husbands or boyfriends can
pick up theirpurchases on Stag Night.

Saturday, December 18, there will
be a story hour with Mrs. Claus for
Lexington children atthe library. Punch
and cookies will be served and door
prizes will be awarded.

Wednesday, December 22, there
will be a Stag Night. Men can go to
pick up their wives’ purchases.

The LDDAwas established in 1985
to keep existing businesses viable, to
promote new businesses, and to pro-
tect the architecture of the historical
downtown part of Lexington. The

Photo by Bethany Smith, TheRing—tum Phi LDDA deals only with the historical L A l i ' Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-mm Phi
Decked out with wreaths and lights, Main Street flaunts its yearly Christmas outfit —— compli- parts of town. The LDDA is funded Along with several student decorations on campus, Washington
ments of the Lexington Dowtown Development Association. primarily by the downtownmerchants. Hall joins in the festivities with its own set of wreaths.

O

 

PAGE 6

o
The Ring-tum Phi, December 3,1993

W&LIF E

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

Pluggers

 

Colonnade Crossword

   

b Jeff MacNe1ly

   
 

'L‘A‘AvAvg- -...-_,
_‘v¢v.v.vAv-~--. . .

      
  

Dave by David Miller

wow, PEOPLE EXPECT so MuCH OF ME...l’/Vt FINDING
iT lNc¢EA9iNc-iLY DiFFIcuL1' To LIVE LIP To T HE“:
ExPECrATioN9./ rrls JUST Too MucH PRE4-suite

HEY!
You THINK You

 

     
 

  

DON'T EVEN GET
ME QTARTEP.’

    
   
 
 

   

You know you're

   

Sea

. a. plug; r when your-

wifg borrows your‘ jacke , your daughter‘

borrows your shirtand your son lcoz-rows
war money.

53

I."
C’
/44-"'/; °.‘;’.°.’»°.,..."“‘ “'......“" ‘s"..'i’.".'2.’i3.‘.""“

 

  0 iii

—"_/»

 

        

 

   
   
 

 

AC_Fl_OSS _ i 2 3 4 is s 1 s 9 10 ii 12 13 14 014-13 WHNHOH E561’ ‘NRn’=Rs ORA)? 
1 Shining brightly
8 Goblet 15 *5

15 Summer drink ‘a

16 Turns in ‘7 » .
17 M st ,

urspalatable 19 2° 21 2: J’!///MI’ '
18 With 3 leg on 23 14 25 25 ;  it
each side  “till 

19 Serf of old 27 2: 29 so 31 32 A as 34 35

zzzzzrm as a7 3. as «o  l 

23 Map abbr. 42 ‘3 4‘     -

25 Gas tor signs ‘ -
27 Buddy ‘ ,5 45 4, ..... 'T\—\E COMMUTER § o
gg3g';§gp°°s° \V“""'-—}/ DEC\;\ON-N\N<\NG
36 odor 48 49 50 51 52 q<."'

38 William 53 54 55 55

40 gggasrg in_,, 57 so 59 so 61 52 53 so 65 .____~_ ' ‘ " ‘—‘

t 4" °-'- W" A(317JALL‘i’ll-I5
..2s'.:*:.k.,,.s as er so «s :</ l
accessory 

45 Follow 7° 7‘ ' ﬁn  W

46 Pipe 12 73 /2 I 

47 -- iirma ’- 
éﬁﬁiiiziztm © :i:,:?:a::::c;iS:"*°°‘» 12/03/93 n . OFAMWAY -ggwmzg

J

52 Psychic ability 9 ed 2 N

53 Poker stake 13 Yield Last week 5 puzzle 5°"    '
55 Done -— turn 14 Dir. letters ' J ’
'57 Fastener 21 Peerless

60 Mine entrance 24 Split '

62 Fellows 26 Sweanrvord 2

66 Cockpit 27 Treaty . _

occupant 28 Operatic songs \‘-'\ x
:33"-*°:= §‘a’§i.°“i°“'°". d ’ -‘
no as an is an

71 Juicy fruits 33 Competent , ‘_ ‘W, ‘ __

72 3".'°‘*" 34 "'"‘Y .°"3P'a‘" ' ' I'LL HAVE THE "\‘§N““’\5‘ '3)‘ ‘ " ‘~ ‘- . FRIED IN BACON

73 59'5"" 35 ‘;‘g°c‘{fj;:g °“"‘° S H 0 E . VEGGIE wizosiz, ' ’   .-V FAT FOR ABOUT

DOWN 37 Masculine ‘ I @555“ _ ' ‘ ~  _ W0 """5~
1 Get up 39 Elaborate party V '\ \ '
2 Behaves 41 Capture I '
3 College VIP 43 “East of —"
4 Lazy one 44 Preminger
5 Dined _ _ 49 City in Italy
6 Put one within 51 Clothing
another 54 Spud
7 Good-bye! 56 — provocateur
3$"‘."” §2I‘.:“°°'.§‘“¥
a e ones ar en 0 a
10 Go to church 63 Press 66 Bounder
11 Money in Milan 59 Roosts 64 River in France 67 Mine's output
12 A flower 61 Graven image 65 Meeting: abbr. 69 Cistern

   

Party Picture Photographers Needed

Must have own 35 mm equipment & car
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

41

 Restaurant

at 1.3! II! Truck Stop

  

MARIE’S
29 North Main Street
. Lexington, Va. 24450 .

463-9588 Kim

W&L Art

We have three

R. E. Lee

Signatures; Two are War Date.

    

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

 imiiiiiiiuiiiis
Friday & Saturday Nights '
7,1 p.m. to 4 a.m. '  ‘13(I)’*;{‘n11"'1‘fn5‘f§3(’) ':I‘;‘1f“Fday :
Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Open Sunday 11-4

‘Route 11 North Open 24 Hours-

 
     
   
    
     
       
    

’ .9   BREAKFAST  

463-3478

ck /J

   

J

ﬁTHEATRE

AT WASHINGTON AND LEE

Tﬂe Lacfyis Not for ﬂurning

‘Tis the Season To Save at:

TGIF

CATALOG OUTLETS 

  

Directed Ey Rosanne Ca1n5rooE§
Famous catalog and brand name  “senior W513 prwfuétion
Clothing for men and Women 9/699’ " A  Clirist0P/ier 9771/'5 exitﬁeranti
5 0 8 0 7 romantic comedy in wliicli a
% ' 1 0 group of young peopfe confront
spring, love, cfeatﬂ, and tlie
OFF EVERYDAY "waning offiﬁz.

30 S. Main St. Lexington, Va. 24450
463-9730 Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30

 

_ _ - Dec. 3, 4, 6, & 8 - 8:00 p.m. Johnson Theatre
Dec. 6 18 10% off with student I. D. Dec. 7 - 9:00 p.m Call 463-8000
Also in: SmithMt. Lake, Lynchburg, Dec. 4 - 2:00 p.m to reserve your ticket

Chapel Hill, N. C., Farmville

The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1993

CLOSE

yous

ccouu  
TH me

mun or
      mm.

0W» S0 YOVRE Nor mar
ENDENTLY WLAL11-1y

“"7 Y0” (AM at :ur>LrLm>m
A Y0” 6” A #1,

WITH l>lS(0V£l{® (Am;
coo (KENT LINE, N0 ANNUAL 1-‘£5

AND WE DON’T (AKL WHAT T
 YOU (yfjf 

IF «boa/‘T cor ur,  
GU IT.” ~

  

PAGE 8

 

OPINION

    

o
The Rinﬂlm Phi, December 3, 1993

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬁlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

’Tis the season

The Holiday season has arrived, and we at the Phi are
in the gift giving mood. We can’t afford to give everyone
on our a list an actual gift, so we decided to go with a
more thoughtful list.

If we forgot you, don’t worry. Santa will be here soon,
and Mom and Dad will probably buy you a couple of
things too.

We hope everyone will get what they wish for this
Christmas.

Niall MacKenzie — United States citizenship
Ashby Hackney —— An alarm clock automatically set
for Mondays at 7:25 p.m.
Executive Committee — $3847.96
The Spectator staff — a monthly deadline
TheACLU — what we gave the E.C. ? .......nah.
Dean Howison—a Nerf bocci set and all the hecklin g
he desires
Dean Schroer-Lamont —— a pill that will give every-
one “the message”
Dean Atkins —— Fraternities that can manage to stay
out of trouble
Dean Manning — an upperclass dorm that everyone
wants to live in
Freshmen — the knowledge that finals will be harder
than APs, and the courage to go on after you get Fall
Term grades .
Sophomores — a major, and the memory that you
were once freshmen too ’
Juniors — gummi bears
Seniors — a job, a graduate school acceptance, a
future
Gummy — dentures
Financial aid office/John DeCourcy — more funds
so he can put financial aid money where his mouth his
Ladies in the registrars’ office — bright cheery
smiles and lots of patience
White Book Review Committee -— an interested
student body
President Wilson — a time machine to take you back
to the century of your choice .
Brian E. Richardson —— a salary to go along with
your deity status among J—majors
Hampden H. Smith III— a pinky ring with his name
on it
Edwin Yoder — divine knowledge of what really
happened to JFK
George Ray —— a contract to write his memoirs
David Novack —— a fun time hunting for antiques in
London
John Jennings .— permission to have J—law twice a
week on Tuesday and Thursday so he can finish the book
in one semester
Steven Desjardins — the bong on Mike Young’s
desk
Melissa Cox——recognition of the ultimate power she
already has
Carol Calkins —— an office that doesn’t look like an
airline ticket window
W&L Security — more Suzuki Samurais to patrol
the parking lots
B&G — a brand—new shiny lawn mower
R.D. Clark— something better to do than chasing the
W&L mail truck
The Lexington Fire Department — a fire truck the

‘IRE BRADY BILL com-'.s To LExING1'oNf '

Sexual issues stance accuses unfairly

I want to sound a note of caution
about the way we look at rape. I do
want to stress at the outset that rape is
a terrible thing. I know people who

to treat the event as one of fact, absent
such a legal detennination, was a seri-
ous error. While one may contend the
facts were undisputed in this particular

 

have been case, even
raped, and the the com-
consequences bined words
are both long- of the vic-
lasting and se- RYAN rim, a uni.
vere. In my versity dean,
0pin_ion,rape is DENNARD, and the
acnme worse ,94 victim's
than murder, friends are
and should be not enough
punished ac- to estab-
cordingly. lish an

Perhaps it is my strong feelings about
this crime that make me so disturbed at
the way this newspaper handled the
subject in its last issue. This paper
failed to recognize rape is first and
foremost a crime, and should be treated
as such. Second, the incidence of rape
will be higher in certain environments;
it isnaive to think we can prevent rape
and sexual assault while promoting the
environments in which they thrive.

A front page feature article pre-
sented in great detail the events sur-
rounding a rape that allegedly occurred
on campus a few years ago. I use the
term “allegedly” not as a suggestion
that the event did not occur, but be-
cause, as with all crimes, we must as-
sume that it did not occur. Our liberal
democratic society requires a presump-
tion of innocence unless guilt is proven
in a court of law. This paper’s decision

individual’s guilt; a court of law has to
decide the issue. Until that happens,
journalists should avoid trying. people
in the court of public opinion.

The article in question contained
only one sentence referring to the legal
issues involved: “[The accuser] filed a
report with the Lexington police, but
did not press charges.” Pressing charges
in a rape case can be a traumatic expe-
rience, one which many women under-
standably choose not to pursue. None-
theless, potential distress for the victim
does not justify public condemnation
of the accused.The article treated the
legal issues as if they were unimpor-
tant, focusing instead on the university
mediation system.While that system
may have its virtues, its judgment is not
authoritative with respect to society; it
does not justify the paper’s decision to
treat the rape accusation as fact.

The second error of judgement in
the article was even more egregious.
The story presented several significant
details about the accused man. I will
not compound the mistake by repeat-
ing them, but given the information
provided in the article and a couple of
old Calyxes, I have little doubt that I
could deduce his identity in less than
an hour. I hope no one will choose to do
that, but the potential for personal dam-
age to’ him exists. While the details
given in the story may have been rel-
evant to presenting an accurate picture
of the situation, this man, who has
never been
charged with a
crime, is now ex-
posed to public

While one may con-

too drunk— ‘it’s aweekendthing’, ‘it’s
a party thing,’ ‘it’s a hook-up thing,’
etc. It’s not too hard to deal.”

The author and the paper as a whole
seemed to miss the fact that these kiiﬂs
of situations actually promote sexual
assault. That is not to say that women
are responsible because they put them-
selves in these situations or, altema-
tively, that this provides an excuse for
men. But it is foolish to ignore the fact
that casual sex or even casual S6Xl,dl
activity makes sexual assault more
likely. Women who have experienced
rape during “a hook-up thing” prob-
ably feel like
it is im-
mensely “hard
to deal.” I50

condemnation. matter how
Finally, I was tend, that “I? fafls were many people
struckbytheother undisputed 111 thls par- are “aware” of
 ticular case,  a court of zztfgalassaulta
, . ng asaca-
After reading the law has t0_declde the sual sexual en-
apicle on ratile and lssue, Untll that hap- vironment-¢t-
gancingatt e ist - - ists, so will
of statements on pen?’ -lournahsts sh",“ld this problem.
sexual assault, I avoid trying people in If the uni-

noticed a story
titled “The art of

the hook-up at ion-

the court of public opin-

versity com-
munity is go-

W&L.” In its de-
scription of W&L
dating it noted: “...[dating] means more
commitment and less freedom. A bad
hook-up, on the other hand, can be
written off as a consequence of being

ing to think
aboutrapeagd
sexual assault,
let’s think about them intelligently. It
is surely possible to discuss this very
serious issue without running
roughshod over common sense.

city actually paid for
Mayor Derrick — a solution to Lexington’s tax
problem that doesn’t involve W&L students
Ourselves —— t1ap—time.
Happy Holidays to everyone! See ya in 1994!

Quote of the Week

“Umm... whuch if these buttons locks the

door?”
—A W&L student unexpectedly ﬁnding
himself in Harlem
V‘
" 4: , o
@112 4 mg-tum ht
Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sport Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee

_[.vv;~§1A01IlU11rv\. -v«1x--rvaz1v-
,, . . . .

Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

» t is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

t The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
703 462-4060

City curfew laws miss the point ‘

The Lexington police have been busy lately. How
busy? They have been keeping our streets free from
teenagers under the age of 17 who hang out past their
bedtime (11 p.m., that is). Just two weeks ago, a
police officer stopped a car of suspicious looking
passengers driving through the streets of Lexington at
3 a.m. After discovering they were all 16-year-old
Lexington residents, the of-
ﬁcer waited for backup and
then brought these curfew

from real crime prevention programs and mask the
underlying causes of crime.

Brian Shaw, a Lexington city councilman and
W&L director of communications supports the cur-
few, even though he concedes it is an easy target for
civil libertarians. When asked whether his motive for
supporting the law was to look tough on crime, he
laughed, shook his fist in the
air and grunted sarcastically
“yah, I’m tough on crime!”

rebels to police headquar-

More seriously, he denied hav-

I€fS- ANDREW ing any such motive pointing

Actually these teenagers to the fact that he plans to
were not rebels at all. They SCHNEIDER0 leave politics once his term is
were coming home from a ’94 up. Shaw supports the curfew

Nirvana concert in
Williamsburg and had re-

 

because he says it helps the
police to do their job.

ceived parental permission
to be out that night. In fact,
one of their parents had even gone to the concert with
them but drove back separately. The curfew law
makes exceptions for minors “on an emergency er-
rand or specific business or activity directed or per-
mitted by [their] parents...”

Despite their innocence, the teenagers were kept
in police custody for an hour until each of their
parents could be awakened, notiﬁed and summoned
to pick their child up at police headquarters.

The Lexington curfew law has been around for a
long time but was revised by the city council last
spring in order to cut down on the noise generated by
popular hangouts such as Sharks. The law makes it a
crime for teenagers under the age of 1 7 to be out on the
streets of Lexington between the hours of 11 p.m. and
6 a.m. without an adult. The ﬁrst violation of the
curfew is punishable by detention at the police depart-
ment until the parents of the minor can pick him/her
up. On the second and subsequent detentions of the
minor, the parents are charged with willfully contrib-
uting to, encouraging, or causing a violation of the
curfew — a Class 2 misdemeanor.

The curfew, traditionally a tool of martial law and
commonly associated with authoritarian governments
such as China (in suppressing the pro-democracy
students), must appear to some as a little out of place
in a largely peaceful and sleepy Lexington.

Lexington is one of a growing number of cities in
the U.S. that have adopted curfew laws. Most have
been adopted as a means of halting the rampant
violence and drug trafficking that have plagued our
cities. However, studies have shown that curfew laws
have very little effect, if any, on the crime rate.
Curfews are nothing more than tough sounding do-
nothing solutions that divert the public’s attention

This assertion is at best a

shaky one because it would

seem that enforcing the curfew law would actually

hinder the police from doing their job. If police are

busy checking IDs of every teenager walking the dog

after midnight, their energies are diverted from solv-
ing real crimes like murder, rape, and robbery.

The most serious problem with curfew laws is that
they are unconstitutional. The right to come and go as
we please without government permission or inter-
ference is a fundamental right in a free society. The

their children are home by 11 p.m.

Even though most children probably ought to be
home by 11 p.m., that decision belongs to parents,
not police officers or politicians. While attempting
to strengthen parental authority, curfews ha!/e
usurped parental perogatives.

Curfew laws are also prone to discriminatory
enforcement. Studies have found that curfew re-
strictions are disproportionately enforced in minor-
ity communities and against individuals perceived
as “different” from the norm.

Lexington police lieutenant Crouder belieﬁs
that the curfew law is useful in preventing tragedies
from happening. His favorite hypthetical example is
a 14-year-old girl, built like a 20-year-old, who
insists on staying out late at night and her parents
could care less. This girl, Lieutenant Crouder in-
sists, is a sitting target for some pervert to pick up
and rape. Crouder adds that the curfew law enabks
police to prevent this situation from happening.

The problem with Crouder’s logic is that his
hypothetical tragedy could take place at any time to
women of any age. Perhaps having a 24 hour curfew
for everyone of all ages would be a better safeguard
against that hypothetical situation from ever
occuring. Wouldn’t life be happy, safe and fin
then?!?

The point is that even though we have serious

FirstAmendmentofour problems with
COHSIIIUIIOH guarantees crime today, allow-
IO everyonethe freedom ing ourselves orour
°f “SS°mb‘Y- Curfew If police are busy checking IDs children to be Put
lawscriminalizenormal . under house arr ti
and otherwise lawful       is not a practical or
behavior. such as stand- after midnight, their energies are justifiable solution.
ing onastreet corner or  from Solving real crimes That would be a
80mg for 3 Walk . sign that ourlaw en-
Another majorprob- like murder, rape, and robbery. forcemem had 105:
lem Will‘ bexlnglolfs the war on crime.
CUI'fCW law IS that  VlO- Curfgws infrin e

lates the due process
rights of teenagers. If you have parental permission to
be out late at night, which is legal under the curfew,
you can still be apprehended by the police and serve
the penalty of the law (detention at police headquar-
ters) until the police can get your parents to come get
you and verify your innocence. Under this law, you
are guilty until proven innocent and the police get to
be the judge, the jury, and the prosecution.
Lexington City“ Councilman and local NAACP
head, Jim Harris, supports the curfew. He brushes off
the unconstitutional aspects of the law as “technicali-
ties.” Harris believes the curfew law gives parents
extra comfort in knowing the police will make sure

. on the basic libe -
ties of all people while trying to prevent the unlaw-
ful conduct of a few.

While the Lexington police and city council are
well intentioned in their attempt to prevent crime,
cut down on noise at night, and make sure minors are
safe at home before midnight, their strategy ‘s
misguided. Law enforcement and government céi
address most of these problems more creatively
without curfews and the price paid in liberty. The
right of Lexington teenagers to come home from a
Nirvana concert without being detained by police
for an hour is a most cherished freedom and one that
should not have to be sacriﬁced!

.0

 

    

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1993

OPINION

PAGE 9

A.P.B.: Avoid the state of Georgia

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

I had been looking forward to relax-
ing overThanksgiving break about 900
miles south of W&L in my home town
of Vero Beach, Florida (motto: “Where
Plre Excitement Never Started”). As
you can probably imagine, it didn’t
work out exactly as I imagined.

My friend Ben and I left Lexington
the Friday vacation began. Most of the
14 hour trip went ﬁne, except when we
went through that little stretch of back-
\%)ods south Georgia known as McIn-
tosh County.

Not that I care to get speciﬁc about
the city (DARIEN) or the name of the
Mclntosh City Sheriff’s Deputy
(STEVE WILLIAMS), but SOME-
HOW a deputy saw ﬁt to pull me over
aid give me a speeding ticket for going
15 miles per hour over the limit. I now
realize at that time I should have voiced
my theory that one should be able to
speed if one has been driving for over
12 hours (the speeding would be sort of
a “treat” from all of that hard work
dﬁving under 65) and if the area you
were driving in was really inbred. I’m
sure Officer Williams would have
agreed.

After checking my license and reg-
istration, Ofﬁcer Williams handed me
my ticket (with the words
“ IOLATOR’S COPY” on it) and
as ed me if I would like to attend a
court date (at the posh Mclntosh County
State Court). When I declined the invi-
tation, he gave me information on how

to mail in my ﬁne. I, as an insurance
company-fearing citizen will do so,
though as a protest to my entrapment
I’m considering paying my ticket in
pennies. Or Mexican pesos.

lt’s now time to announce my theory
on “Darien” and “McIntosh County.”
Both of these entities are approximately
1 square foot
large and exist

xnu-an 

 

&0&A
oratory "rune auvroll. Iuuuloll. Acprmmou rvuuua

weather expert, my mother, the 85 De-
gree Prime Beach Weather disappeared
the day I arrived.

I had had plans of returning to W&L
with a dark bronze tan (so I wouldn’t
get lost in the snow), but I had to settle
for the glow of the television. Lots of
television. I felt like hooking my head
up directly
with the cath-

   
 

solelyasanex- —,..--—._,~_;,-_— -~;;-,:- ..T§._3__§3:5_ ode tube so I
cuse for ,._A,j:;j'_'°"_°,:°"_,';Y s":?‘:::3-°"""}§"-7. 3 .. could absorb it
sheriff ’s depu— :_'?;:,?g T>z7.‘;S'r:,>‘E"-:-,'-.?_—#i(~f—-_naA_ll_-..f.;:‘-_‘7'.£.(_’._ all and make up
ties to make :_‘y-_§-:;;‘°"€,  "7  ‘T for what I
money off of °~4,4.{-:*,49L-u- ----- —- missed sincel
travelers who  - leftforcollege.

are headed to

 

There is some-

real cities.
M y a nger
over my ticket

  

rmnaoucvggnm-~.-a.-.

Chitin»-uuucnnanuuulntlt-vtnonornulaob-‘pi,

thingtobesaid
for an after-
noon spent

   

is partially

watching CNN

consoled by

News Hour,

Phi Managing
Editor Nancy

the Real World

It

" I
= 5 on MTV, BET

 I

 
  

    

Pavlovic’srev- Video Soul,
elationthatshe and E! Talk
was caught Soup all in a
speeding at __ N row with the
101 m. .h. in ::~.-:-—- ':f“-"Z-:”*‘=-“-Z‘-.._____£°° onl break be-
south Gpeorgia  ing)trips to the

'-37-‘-1  °'”"'”" fridge. In fact,

':.‘:""‘....,"""
$-43 1;’ I, ’

and had to
spend 3 hours 

'.‘7<.2-34.. .,,. 1'!

"‘ I think the uni-

1.»... ...........,.,
.......a....... -

in jail before
herbail money *'  ‘
arrived by Western Union. We have
decided to form a support group for all
of those persecuted in “The Peanut
State.”

Anyway, after we sped off, leaving
a cloud of dust in our wake, we headed
home to sunny south Florida. Except it
wasn’t sunny. According to a local

versity should
give one aca-
demic credit to those people who stud-
ied examples of American culture
(those TV programs) over the Thanks-
giving break.

After a while, I decided it was time
for a visit to the old alma mater: Saint
Edward’s School in Vero Beach. Lo-
cated on the shore of the Indian River,

r‘:-'3. on->-5 :.r;:-.

St. Ed’s was my school for 13 years; it
nurtured me and made me into the
caring, considerate, and thoughtful per-
son I am today. Wait a minute... no it
didn’t; and look where it got me.

Walking through the halls I was
amazed by how young the kids were.
Most of them wore the expression,
“Who in the world are you?” and for
the ones who did know my name,
“Don’t you have anything better to
do?” Then there were some kids who
didn’t say anything and just shot spit-
balls at me.

I said hello to my old teachers. For
the most part it was good to see them,
but there are deﬁnitely a few teachers
that would benefit from
“Dubyuhnellization.” I think all ofus
have a fantasy about taking the most
out-of-touch high school teacher, the
one who made a big deal about chew-
ing gum or passing notes in class, and
placing them in an environment they
simply could not mentally handle and
then their brains would explode.

I can just picture Mr. Redpath going
through fraternity rush, having his shirt
ripped off, and then going to a eight-
fraternity party at Zollman’s featuring
goldﬁsh eating and Doug Clark and the
Hot Nuts Plus A Couple of Vandellas.
Imagine if some freshmen saw Mr.
Redpath there and taunted him because
of his pants and then they introduced
him to Tom Hespos, and then he would
try to assign them a 1,000 word paper
as punishment and then they would
steal his pants... You ﬁll in the rest at
home.

Maybe I spent a few too many hours
in the front of the TV this break.

State violates promise of justice

lower court.

MY VIEW

. Jerry William Joseph, Sr.

How can this be justice? Surely the lowercourts do
not think us so naive that we are to believe that the
police are incapable of unconscionable acts against
mankind, for they are only human and subject to

People of the United States, I come to you now to
voice the injustice done to me by the Virginia state
police and the county of Hanover, Virginia. Let it be
krpwn by all that the police and lower courts do not
respect the rights pledged us by the forefathers of this
country in the United Stated Constitution.

It is the judgment of the lower courts that if your
constitutional rights are violated that you have a right F
to appeal so why not send you to prison so you can do
“some” time before your appeal comes up for trial.

ll, here is one man that would rather turn his life
over to the Lord by death than lose all livelihood
spending years in prison ﬁghting for the rights already
won in blood and death by our forefathers that are so
obviously not recognized by the lower courts of this
country. The police are allowed by the lower courts
to manipulate law in the name of justice. When the
le lity of a search is disputed all the police have to
sa?is that you gave consent and your constitutional
rights are gone, even if there is not a witness to the
consent, or a signature on a consent form or even if a
consent deﬁed all logic and it is just one man’s word
against another man’s word, the word of the police,
right or wrong, will always prevail in the eyes of the

0

true. If only the people
of this country could
know how easy it is to
lose your constitutional
rights and the cost fac-
tor to the public in the
form of taxes each time
a violation of constitu-
tional rights is appealed
in court, they would
surely force the govem-
ment to pass a simple
law to make it manda-
tory that a consent form
be ﬁlled out when a per-
son waives a constitu-
tional right. So little, to

inﬂuence as any other human being. All we have to
do is pick up any newspaper in any city to see this is

save so much, I can not understand why it has not been
done already. Most people are not even aware some
issues of constitutional law can not even be appealed
in federal court such as Fourth Amendment rights to
privacy. If a person is from out of state, as in my case,
all matters of court became just a formality.

How can there be justice when my court appointed

LETTERS

lawyer is not keeping with the standards of a pri-

vately paid lawyer by failing to research and con-
duct an independent investigation on the issue of an
illegal search 1 presented him on the day of his
appointment to me. His intent of not having contact
with me and his non—actions forced me to research
laws of this state and file my own motions in court

in order to insure that
the Fourth Amend-
ment issue of illegal

Most people are not even
aware some issues of constitu-
tional law can not even be ap-
pealed in federal court such as
Fourth Amendment rights to
privacy. If a person is from out of
state, as in my case, all matters of
court became just a formality.

search was presented
to the court. This is
an issue that should
" have been presenter’

to the court in the be-

ginning stages to in-
sure the protection of
people’s constitu-
tional rights. The
rights of an individual
should always be ﬁrst
and foremost in the

children.

eyes of the court, if
we are to enjoy true

freedom in this country. Let us not lose the rights
our forefathers died for.

Let my death be the signal for the people of this
country to stand up and be heard. If you believe in
preserving your constitutional rights, now is the
time to act, for your sake and the sake of your

McDermott confuses meaning of equality

To the editor:

would like to correct an egregious error that
Patrick McDermott made in his article, “Don’t malign

Kennedy’s memory” (Nov. 12)

He asserted that one of this nation’s fundamental
ideals (and Kennedy’s as well) was a belief in the
equality for all Americans. Although Jack Kennedy
rna.y have espoused this as one of his administration’s

cornerstones, I can assure you that the Founding
Fathers did not. The framers of our nation, however,
did promote the ideas or equal opportunity, and they
believed that all men were created equal — but these
are very different than “equality for all.”

Mr. McDermott rightly associated “equality for
all” with a nation, but he simply picked the wrong one.
The roots of his wrongly-credited belief are located in

fnterviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

 

Melissa Wolf, ’95, Rose Valley, Pa.
—.“‘Flowers’ on my desk.”

TALKBACK

 

the ashes of the former Soviet Union. It is the
premise of communism — not republicanism - that
begins with social egalitarianism. It was neither
Jefferson nor Madison who wanted “equality for
all;” rather, it was Marx and Lenin. Please do not get
them confused.

Jimmy Kull, ’94

Pub Board

There will be a Pub Board meet-
ing on Monday, Dec. 6 at 8 p.m. in
the The Ring-tum P/ii Office, room
208 of the University Center.

Found

Found: Ablack, green, and gold
lighter with the initials DTL en-
graved on it. Call 463-5295.

Oxford

Washington and Lee is one of
six area schools that sponsor a sum-
mer program of study at St. Anne’s
College, Oxford, England. The
Virginia Program at Oxford fol-
lows the English tutorial system
and studies the subject areas of lit-
erature and history of Tudor-Stuart
England. Dates are June 27 to Aug.
6, 1994. Application deadline is
March 1, 1994. There is some schol-
arship available. See Prof. Pamela
Simpson in the Art Department for
more information.

Ballet

The Rockbridge Concert The-
atre Series is presenting the
Eglevsky Ballet; Michael Vernon,
Artistic Director; Founded by Andre
Eglevsky, in the holiday classic
“The Nutcracker.” Performances
will be held in Lexington at the
Keller Theatre of the Lenfest Cen-
ter for the Performing Arts on Sun-
day, Dec. 5 at 3 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.
Tickets may be purchased at Qual-
ity Quick Print, 214 South Main
Street, from Nov. 22 to Dec. 3.
There will be no reserve seating.
Formore information call 463-5360.

Resumes

There will be a Resume Work-
shop on Wed., Dec. 8, at 11 a.m. in
room 109 of the University Center.

 

All students are welcome to attend. ~.= lish on Jan.‘6,‘ 1994.

This       

Tests

There will be a test interpreta-
tion session on Thursday, Dec. 10,
in room 109. All seniors planning
to participate in the SLAC job fairs
should plan to attend this brief ori-
entation meeting.

Golf

Give your favorite golfer free
greens fees thisholiday season with
the American Lung Association of
Virginia (ALAV) 1994 Mid-Atlan-
tic Golf Privilege Card. For $35 the
Golf Privilege Card offers free golf
at over 150 of the region’s top
courses The card is available by
calling the ALAV Northwest Area
Office at (703) 434-5864 or (800)
LUNG-USA. ALAV accepts cash,
checks, MasterCard, and Visa.

Indochine

The Film Society will present
Indochine tonight and Saturday
night in the Troubadour Theatre at
8:05 p.m. Admission is free.

Letters

Letters and “My Views” may be
submitted by anyone by Tuesday at
noon. All submissions must be
signed and they will be printed in
the order in which they were re-
ceived.

Phi

TIzeRing-tum Phiwill next pub-

AIDS education
coordinator thanks W&L

To the editor:

I am writing to congratulate and
thank the members of the Washington
and Lee University AIDS Education
Project for the overwhelming success
ofthis year’sWorld AIDS Day Events.
The students who make up the core of
the project worked tirelessly during an
already stressful time of the year to
assure that their message was received
by the W&L community. You are a
great group, and judging from the feed-
back I have received thus far, you ac-
complished your goal.

I would also like to thank the non-
student members of the campus com-
munity who supported this event in a
number of important ways. Thank you
to all of the faculty and staff members
who wore red ribbons to classes and at
their desks, your concern for the well
being of the students on this campus is
extraordinary and very much appreci-
ated.

A few special thank yous: to the

W&L Security team who performed
with their usual professionalism in as-
sisting the members of the AIDS
Project, to Jim Johndrow and the folks
at University Services who provided
much warmth (literally) for the project
members, to the staff of the Bookstore
for their help during the day, to Mary
Woodson for designing our Red Rib-
bon Campaign Posters, to Larry
Broomall for his help in finalizing the
planning of the day’s events, and to
Carol Calkins for her year-round sup-
port. Finally, “Thanks,” to the folks I
forgot to mention. I hope there aren't
too many!

I compliment the Washington and
Lee community for its continued gen-
erosity and compassion. With your help,
we can and will end this plague.

Sincerely yours,

Pat McDermott '94
Coordinator

W&L AIDS Education Project

If you were Bill Clinton, What Would  
  you Want for Christmas?

R. P. Dickerson, ’96, Atlanta, Ga. —
“A new wife.”

Damien Del Russo, ’95, Highlands, NJ and Assia Georgieva, ’95, Soﬁa,

Bulgaria —— “A Republican joke book.”

 

Robert Covington, ’97, Atlanta, Ga.

— “A Mexican immigrant.”

 

Lisa Greenhouse, ’96, Towson, Md.

— “A cheaper haircut.”

 

PAGE 10

  
 

QUALITY AND VARIETY

II.S.D.A. CHOICE WHOLE
BEEF l'ENDElI|.O|N

99

FAMILY PACK BEEF  

CUBED

MEANS iow ES

5TEAK.._............i.-2.

  Harrisfeeter

   
 

GOLDEN RIPE
BANANAS

9

  
 

LB.

 
 

\-

    

HARR

 

 

 

srrrr CROCKER
S U PE RM OIS T
CAKE MIX

I8" 
OZ.

   

ALL PURPOSE VAC. PAK
H T

COFFEE

0

DIET COKE OR
COCA COLA

   

2 LTR.

Trademarks®

    

The Ring-tum PM, December 3 1993

IS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

FT 2/ O0
DRINKS ................................ ..2 LTR.
IgPAO'R(TED, COOKED 
HAM ................................. ..1 6 oz. 3

NABISCO

OREO

T ............................ ..LB.
5”

SELECTED VARIETIES
3 WHITE RAIN
HAIR CARE PRODUCTS

4'  Ozo

   

   

 

   
 
  
   
  
     

2"  
COOKIES ................... ..1<s oz.

IN THE DELI-BAKERY SUCED
HONEY TURKEY TO ORDER
BREA5

HT
ORANGE JUICE

109

64 OZ.

HT
  aurrrn OUARTER5

M115

 

   
 

Prices Effective Throu h December 7, 1993

Prices In This Ad Eltective Wednesday, December I Through uesday, December 7,l 993.
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Glodly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

In Lexington stores

 
  
   

  

  
 
 
 

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

 
 

  

   
 
  

     
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 

Callbacks wit! be on Friday, Dec. 10.

Parts available for this ingenious,
whimsical, and improbable farce which concerns a
novelist whose second marriage is troubled by the
ghost. of the first---wife that is.

December9 0 7:00 p.m. 0 Auditions
December 10 - 7:00 p.m. 0 Callbacks
Iohnson Theatre ° Lenfest Center

 

0
GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Schedules for Winter, 1993-94
Men’s Basketball Swimming

Dec. 4 at Guilford 2:00 Dec. 3 Sweet Briar( 7:00

Dec. 8 Emory & Henry 7:30 Dec. 4-5 at UVa Invitational (M&W) 2
Jan. 2 Amherst 7:30 Dec. 7 Randolph-Macon ( 7:00

Jan. 4 Virginia Wesleyan 7:30 Jan. 12 Buffalo State (M& 7:00

Jan. 8 Roanoke 7:30 Jan. 15 V at Catholic (M&W 2:00

Jan 10 at Mary Washington 8:00 Jan. 22 Emory, Johns Hop ins 10:00

Jan. 12 at Lynchbur 7:30 at North Carolina (M&W)

Jan. 15 Randolph- acon 3:00 Jan. 30 Franklin & Marshall 2:00 _
Jan. 19 at Emory & Henry 7:30 M&W) 9
Jan. 21 Bridgewater 7:30 Feb. 3 ollins Q15]/) 7:00

Jan. 23 Catholic 3:00 Feb. 5 at Mary ashington 2:00

Jan. 26 Ham den-Sydney 7:30 (M&

Jan. 29 Guil ord 2:00 Feb. 12 at Rad ord M&W) 1:00

Feb. 2 at Virginia Wesleyan 7:30 Feb. 18-20 at Atlantic tates/

Feb. 5 Eastern Mennonite 7:30 ODAC Championships (M)

Feb. 9 Lynchburg 7:30 at Southern State 9
Feb. 12 at Roanoke 7:30 Championships (W)

Feb. 16 at Eastern Mennonite 7:30 Mar. 10-12 at NCAA Championships(\]V)

Feb. 19 at Randol h-Macon 3:00 Mar. 17-20 at NCAA Champtionsh1ps( )

Feb. 23-26 Old Dominion Athletic

Conference Tournament
in Salem, Va. 7
I’
Women’s Basketball Wrestling

Dec. 4 at St. Mary’s 2:00 Dec. 3-4 ' at Lebanon Valley Tournament .
Dec. 6 Wesley Colle e 7:30 Jan. 8 at Western Maryland Quad. b
Jan. 8 at Wesley Co le e 2:00 (iphns Hopkins, Messiah,

Jan. 9 at Virginia Wes eyan 2:00 . Maryland) 1:00

Jan.11 Univ. of the South 7 :30 Jan. 15 W&L Tri. Davidson,

Jan. 13 at Sweet Briar College 7:00 Pensacola hristian 1:00

Jan. 15 at Mary Washington 6:00 Jan. 22 W&L Invitational ( avidsoii,

Jan. 19 Mary Baldwin College 7:00 Haverford, LaSalle, Longwood,

Jan. 21 Meredith College 5:00 Newport News, Pensacola 3
Jan. 29 at Davidson College 3:00 Christian, Washington &

Feb. 2 at Mary Baldwin 7200 Jefferson) 9:30

Feb. 5 Midway College 1:00 Jan. 29 at Gallaudet Invitational 11:00

Feb. 9 at Hollins College 7:00 Feb. 5 at Apprentice Inviational

Feb. 13 Hollins Colle e 2:00 Feb. 13 at Virginia State Toum. 9:00

Feb. 17-19 at Women’s éollege Feb. 25-26 at NCAA Regional Tournament

Tournament Mar. 3-5 at NCAA Championships 9
at Meredith College ' .
Washington and Lee I
_ Team Records
Track and Field (Indoor) (as of 12/02/93)
Jan. 15 Lynchburg Invitational (M&W) Men’s Swimming 1-0-0
Jan. 21-22 Virginia Tech Invitational Women’s Swimming 1-0-0
M&W) Men’s Basketball 1-4-0
Feb. 5 MI.Relays (M) Women’s Basketball 0-3-0 .
Pepsi Invitational at VPI (W) Wrestling 0-0-0
Feb. 12 Virginia Tech Invitational (M)
Feb. 26 ODAC Championshi s overall 3-7-0
at Lynchburg (M&
b V .
EXTRA INCOME NOWI   . .
:,~_:s;<;:,=_§,*;*;;',;°‘-3°°°-~°°-~~~~* Alvin-Dennis, Inc. I
I 102 w. Washington St. 3
1
Ih'is_ﬂeeIsZs_§ne<;iaI .
I Outerwear and Dress Top Coats 20% Off
-Duckhead -W&L Belts, Ties, ‘
-Red Wing Boots Dog Collars
-Ray Bans -Xmas Ties & Boxers
—Shoes by Bass & -Flannel Shirts
Walkover -Tuxedos ,
-Cotton Sweaters -Flasks
oi?
‘at I °
FREE GIFT WRAPPING &
CALL (500) 71 4 _ 868? GIFT CERTIFICATES AVAILABLE I
FLO IDA KEYS 433-3333
' ‘I '0 '  " ‘ '  VISA MASTERCARD STUDENT CHARGE .
IT'S A PIIIAITB Hm I
. _ ii .
for 
Noel Coward's 
Bl’ h S ' ‘t 
it e pin  .
You must sign up for a Thursday audition 
slot with the Theatre Department secretary. 
She will provide you with a script.  .

  
  

GE 11

 

phomore Josephine Schaeffer heads down the W&L cross
- ungry course. Her season culminated with All-American honors.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

“If she stays interested, her poten-
tial is virtually unlimited.”

That is how women ’s cross-country
coach Jim Phemister sees the future of
his star runner, sophomore-sensation
Josephine Schaeffer.

Schaeffer just completed a near-
perfect All-American season, suffer-
ing her only loss at the Division III
NCAA Championships. At that No-
vember 20th meet in Grinnell, Iowa,
her eighth place time of 18:04 in the 5K
race was just 15 seconds off the win-
ningmark.

Schaeffer, who ran under 18 min-
utes four times this fall, blamed her
time on being too excited. She went out
in a first-mile time of 5:05, her fastest
ever.

Schaeffer was pleased that she
moved up four places from last year’s
finish. She may not have been thrilled
with her race time, but more impor-
tantly, she had “a good time.”

“[The meet] was very exciting. Very
intense, too,” Schaeffer said.

The two-time cross-country All-
American may not have gone
~ undefeated, but Schaeffer can find so-
lace in her selection as the WLUR-
Ring-tum Phi Athlete of the Month for
November.

The sophomore follows Corinda
Hankins (women’s soccer) and Robert
Hull (football) in receiving the Major
General Award.

It has been a record-after-record
two years at Washington and Lee for
the Memphis native.

sion III scene by, literally, mnning
away with seven of nine races as a
freshman. Her only defeats were in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championships—where she lost a con-
siderable lead by running off course-
and the nationals, a 12th place finish.
Schaeffer moved on to track and
wasted no time -leaving her mark there.
She placed second at the NCAA Divi-
sion HI Outdoor Track championships
to again earn All-American honors.
Her 1993 cross-country season was
highlighted by winnin g the ODACtitle
and the South-Southeast Regional
championship. Schaeffer led four Gen-
erals who placed in the top seven at the
ODAC’s as the team claimed the con-

 

File photo

F

1

  

Ajg-—

lo

' nrnrt rruruo

17 S. Randolph Street
Lexington, Va. 24450

463-1145

_ The 
Point of View

Restaurant

Next to Days Inn, Rt. 60 West
463-7797

Casual Dining

Elegant Setting

Finest Steaks - Fresh Seafood
Pork Ribs - Banquet Facilities

 

Wanted: Waiters & Waitresses,
pan time. Call: 463-7797

chaeffer JOIIIS Major General list

Schaeffer stormed the 1992 Divi-A

 

K

 

 

Gain the Competitive Edge for a Career in Finance with

 

     

GW’s Master

A Focused Degree

The intensive MSF program builds upon prior
degrees in business, economics and other
quantitative disciplines. With its different focus
MSF students gain more in-depth specialization
in ﬁnancial theory and management than is
typically available through MBA programs.

A Fast Track

You can complete your degree in one
calendar year full-time or two years part-time.

A Key Location
GW’s School of Business and Public

Management is located next door to the
World Bank and International Monetary
Fund, and close to the Federal Reserve,

the U.S. Treasury Department and major

ﬁnancial market regulatory agencies.

GW’s MSF Prepares You for a Career in:

I Investment Banking
Financial Institution Management
Financial Market Regulation

Early admission decisions will be made March 1, 1993.
Remaining admission is on a rolling basis.

Students are advised to apply early.

For more information on GW’s Master of Science in Finance,

call (202)994-5996.

Cl Please send me more information on GW’s MSF program.
Cl I would like to arrange an informational interview.
D Please also send me information on GW’s MBA program.

M?

{Z

J

of Science in Finance

Advanced Curriculum .

The challenging curriculum covers all major areas of

ﬁnance, with an emphasis on applied research and
: modeling, as well as international and regulatory
dimensions. Courses are taught by internationally rec-
ognized full-time faculty.

A Valuable Network of Peers

Many students in the MSF program are already suc-
cessful professionals who work in prominent national
and international organizations.

«A Convenient Schedule

MSF classes are held on Thursday, Friday and
Saturday, so you have the option of seeking an intem—
ship or working while you study. Faculty are available
to assist you in identifying professional opportunities.

Intemational Finance
Portfolio Management
Financial Consulting

Corporate Finance
Financial Research and Modeling

The
1' C

as 11
 Y4GTON1DC

Or complete and return the coupon, below:

Nam _ _ Mail this cou on to:
College/UHIVGFSIIYI Professor Ted B '

School Address: IT)lirector MSF Prl<:lgnraIn

re George Was ' gton University
D f F‘
School Phone: ( ) epmmem 0 mance

Permanent Address:

Permanent Phone: ( )

Washington, D.'C. 20052
Or Fax it to:
(202)994-5014

The Rlng-tum Phl, December 3, 1993

 

Josephine Schaeffer

ference championship for the second-

straight year.

W&L failed to qualify as a team for
the NCAAs; the team finished second
in the Regionals. However, Schaeffer
was accompanied to Iowa by team-
mate Amy Mears, who had run a quali-
fying time of 18:41.

Among Schaeffer’s best perfor-
mances of the season were a then-
school-record 17:25, a 17:36 at the
ODACs (a minute-and-a-half ahead of
second place), and—to put it mildly—an

unbelievable 16:46 finish in the re-
gional championships. ’

“It was very surprising. I don’t re-
ally know where it came from,” she
said of the now-school record time of
16:46.

Schaeffer seems as if she could not
be happier with her season. By staying
injury-free, running consistently around
or under 18 minutes, and having fun
with her teammates she has met all of
her goals for the year.

“I want to continue to have fun,”

  

said Schaeffer. “That’s one of the rea-
sons I wanted to run Division III. I
didn’t want the pressures of a Division
I school.”

Schaeffer, whose father is a W&L
alum, does hope to continue her im-
provement. Coach Phemister doesn’t
see much of a problem for that happen-
mg.
“She’ll continue to make progress.
She’s so dedicated and so willing to
work,” said the coach, who was named
ODAC coach-of-the-year in 1993 for
the fourth straight year.

Pherni ster said Schaeffer has already
taken a minute off her high school
times and has the potential to knock
another 60 seconds off before graduat-
mg.
In the long run (no pun intended),
Phemister believes Schaeffer has the
raw natural talent to be a national-
caliber runner. This would suggest that
the runner, who is still in her develop-
mental stage, could ultimately be com-
petitive among runners of all levels.

Fornow, she’ll justhave to settle for
being a record setting, three-time All-
American, nationally recognized Ma-
jor General.

  
  

c7I»\.e ’\)\)Jt;u12.Qtm_.,..tuw. ‘FDR;
/W\G}$1' General QVVGYJ

¢¢ 

seam./a./a 

ﬁoloém

await a aai/4/a.za.//

z/V ‘i

cjke /maior General is ckasew wsewtkly lay serials Giuaert avul Kcitk GVGWE

F wtemax on 9‘
C 261-7292
2275 BcecI’iAve., Buena-\4ata-(Behind Pizza Hut)

$1.50 ANY SHOW

Now Showing

JUPASSIC PAPK

Rated PG-13
Daily 6:50
Sat. & Sun. 1:10, 4:00 & 6:50

:6/Z0 ¢“3ecWe/(/ 
Rated PG
Daily 9:45

     
     

“All You Can Eat"
BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

Q300 OF POPCORN $3.9

unu‘ii‘l‘uIs°»'li‘l'I‘m
THE Again our HAVE

ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT MEANING.

Alcohol quickly affects your judgment, 

balance, and coordination. Don’t

drink and ride. Or your last
drink might be your last drinkv
MOTOIIOVOLE SAFETY FOUNDATION (9
r

  
  

December 8th
5 ‘til 8 p.m. H,
For all your Christmas " '9 '
Sports needs —

15% off all regular  in
price merchandise if" ’

int gsam 

     

 ‘I.';\;§§’§

115 W. Nelson St.

Stonewall Square Shatzplng Center

Waywe.

LexIngtan,V
463-9800

Wafawar/ff:/_

' Maﬁa k/we mo/need

0/came/5'0 éooﬁa mace’ °
cmwét o/i/‘mild//e Moaeﬂm//gy l-mam.’-

72r<£r<£ri‘rA Gift Certificateﬁﬁﬁﬁ

($5.00 and up) .

»

—We specialize in great music and movies-

Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. l0a.m.-ll 

I..
M5743-I "95 1

Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

p% @e/4”

. ..
_ _ .‘,.‘_<~"',\“".\5'_€

  

Last Week:

FB—W&L 14, Georgetown 17
WBB—W&L 57, Catholic 59
MBB—W&L 48, Hampden-Sydney 90

PAGE 12

  3

(‘Litre ‘filing-tttm iﬂlii

PORTS e

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

This Week:

MBB—at Guilford 12/04

WBB—at St. Mary’s 12/04
Wrest—at Lebanon Valley 12/O3-04
Swim—UVa invitational 12/04

DECEMBER 3, 1993

Women make Doremus debut’

so.

By BILL Rusr
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
women’sbasketball team opened
their first season as a Varsity
team Nov. 19, and brought the
game home for the W&L debut
match Dec. 1.

A handful of students were on
hand to watch a breathtaking
game which came down to the
final shot, as the home team was

' V narrowly beaten in a battle with

Catholic University 59-59.

    
 

The team started slowly, but

      

picked up the pace late in the
first half. With aggressive play
and great defense, they led by as
much as seven in the first half.
At half-time, W&L found itself
down by three points, 34-31.
The second half proved to be
more exciting than the first.
The Lady Generals lost the
lead on a penalty shot with less

’ than twominutes to go. Catholic

barely managed to keepvthe Gen-
erals at bay, and beat the buzzer.

Wednesday, senior Karen
Stutzman led the team with 14
points. junior Amy Vogt was
second with 12, and sophomore

Allison Hull scored 10. Stutzman
also lead with 8 steals. Hull and
senior Mary Tankard both m9n-
aged a team high five rebounds.

Thelosswasthe third oneina
row for W&L. The most recent
loss came last week against
Emory and Henry. They were
crushed 77-37. Stutzman and
sophomore Sandra Holmes min-
aged to score in double digits in
that match, with 12 and 10 re-
spectively.

The Generals’ record now
stands at 0-3. Next week, the
team will face St. Mary’s and
Wellesley College. .

snag

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fiing-tum Phi
Senior Karen Stutzman puts the moves on her Catholic defender as the Lady
Generals lost a heartbreaker, 59-57, in the opening game Dec. 1.

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Nikki Mayfield jurnps for the ball against her Catholic opponent in the Generals’ .

first-ever home game.

Men’s basketball, 1-4

slowly begins season  

By STEPHEN WILLIARD _
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The 1993-1994 men’s basketball team has be-
gun the new season with mixed results. Following
a hard-fought holiday tournament that left the
Generals on the short end, the team responded by
defeating Emory in Atlanta.

Against Bridgewater, the Generals led at half-
time, but eventual] y fell to the Eagles. OnWednes-
day against the Hampden-Sydney Tigers the Gen-
erals led at one point in the first half 10-4 before
succumbing to the Tigers 90-48 in a game that got

away from the W&L squad.

In the Hampden-Sydney the Generals were led
by 14 points from Cam Dyer, their leading scorer
on the season.

In Atlanta, Washington and Lee had four play-
ers score in double figures and two with double
doubles in the win over Emory.

The Generals have opened the year with a 1-4
record and an 0-2 Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence record. The Generals hope to improve on last
year’s 5-19 campaign.

W&L will next play at home on December 8th
against Emory and Henry. The Generals will be
looking to take a turn in the winning direction
before break.

 

M\<Blflf\V
‘C|h|rli§l[|[Tl€iI§«9
~G~ein«eiraillsI!  

 

November snow in Texas, .
Lett’s heroics shock Steve

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILUARD

, Just when you were starting
to lose interest in the football
season, the games actually be-
gin to get fun. After last week-
end, the playoffs will seem like
an afterthought.

How often does Dallas get
snow in November? Better still,
how many people remember
Leon Lett? Well, the wild and
crazy Superbowl hero came
through again for the Dallas
Cowboys on Thanksgiving.
Following a stunning Steve
DeBerg led Dolphinsdrive, Pete
Stoyanovich entered the scene
to attempt a game winning field
goal. The Cowboys blocked
the kick to win the game, or at
least they should have won the

game.
Lett came slidinginto the pic-
ture at the last second to touch
the ball (which otherwise would
have been dead) and the Dol-
phins recovered to kick a field
goal as time expired and win 16-
14. I would just like to say that
Lett has just joined the ranks of
Fred Merkle, Roy Riegels, and
Bill Buckner (do I get any votes
for Mitch Williams?) with his
boner on national television.
Inotheraction,West Virginia
defeated Boston College 17-14
in a thriller to finish the regular
season undefeated . However, the
Mountaineers will not have a
shot at the national title because
of Florida State beat Florida and
Nebraska defeated Oklahoma.
That brings me to the topic of
the day: who should play for the
national title? Both Nebraska
and West Virginia finished the

regular season undefeated
and untied (as did the Au‘
burn Tigers who are on pro-
bation and thus, out of the
picture), but Florida St., who
finished with one loss,
played a much harder sched-
ule (including wins over
North Carolina, Florida, Vir-
ginia, and Miami—all nation.-
ally ranked teams).

I think that the best team
should be national cham-
pion, and without a playoff
system, we are left at the
mercy of the poll balloters to
decide that fact. At leas’
with the bowl coalition, a 1
vs. 2 game is all but guaran-
teed.

Unfortunately, this sea-
son, three teams stand very
close in ability and record.
West Virginia had the mis9
fortune of beginningthe year
out of the top 15 and didn’t
have their impressive wins
(Miami, Boston College)
until the end of the year. As
far asI’m concerned,Florida
State deserves a shot (mp
God, their only setback was
atthe hands of an undefeated
Notre Dame team and they
crushed Miami and North
Carolina and Florida!).

I predict that Florida St.
A will defeat Nebraska and neg
Bobby Bowden his ﬁrstever
national title. ‘
' Parting Shots-

How did North Carolina
lose to UMassin basketball?
What’s up with that?

The BENGAL$
WATCH is OVER! Yes,
that’srightladies and gentle-
men, the proud pussycats
won last weekend! Bring on
the Superbowl, the AFC has
a contender this year.

To all Houston Rocket.
fans: I’m sorry, but 82-0 is
impossible. Just thought
you’d like to know.

Anyway, that is all the
space for this week. Until
later, enjoy the games.

 

