 
  
 

   

   

riaa r  199:;

“The Foreign Student” W&L Basketball
set to open in spring drops game to

Lynchburg

5. ". /3 :«"‘»’r\*3{3

 

   

VOLUME 93, NO. 19

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

The. Smoke Gets in Your Eyes

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FIJI Writes
two appeals

FEBRUARY 11, 1994

The Student Affairs Committee voted to S...-.-;

 

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity Friday handed in
not one, but two appeals to President John D.
Wilson.

One appeal, filed on behalf of FIJI and the
upperclass house members, came from FIJI House
Corporation President Ed Bishop. The second ap-
peal was ﬁled on behalf of the FIJI pledges by
Frank “Terry" Griffin, father of FIJI pledge
T.J.Grifﬁn.

“When he found out what happened, the events
and the circumstances of the trial, he felt some-
thing needed to be said,” Griffin said. “That’s why

pend FIJI for 18 months for hazing on Jan. 17.

Wilson gave FIJI an extension on the 10 days it had .

to file the appeal, making the new deadline Friday,
Feb. 4.

Griffin said his father appealed on the same four
grounds as the FIJI fraternity: lack of due process,
punishment too harsh, false information in the
letter to SAC from Dean of Freshmen and Resi-
dence Life Dennis Manning in which he charged
FIJI with hazing, and “the wrong guys being pun-
ished.” However, the senior Griffin appealed only
on behalf of the FIJI pledges.

“There was no coordination between us,” said

Photo By Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

he decided to get involved.”

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer
The worst is over. Following

a week of anticipation and won-
dering, Washington and bee jun-

Senior Carl Bucus and freshman C.F. Kucera participate in a Smoke-in Friday. The smoke-in was organized by
senior Donald J. Skelly, Jr. as a protest to a petiton to ban smoking in the Co-op, Evans Dining Hall and The
' General Headquarter’s. The petition was sent to Gerry Darrell, director of food services, and was signed by 70
law students. Darrell approached the Executive Committee Jan. 25 for advice on the smoking policy for campus
eating areas. The EC was split on its advise. The Health Education Committee has also proposed a ban on
smoking in campus eating areas. Some students have said cigarette smoke is offensive. Others have said it is
their right to smoke and they should not be discriminated against.

ior Tyler Duvall is out of danger.
“We’recer1ainly better a lot
better off than we were last
Wednesday,” said Tyler’s
mother, Judy Lowe.
DuvaIl,stricken|ast week with
a meningococcal infection, was
taken out of intensive care at the

Slander suit heats up

Wheeler subpoenas nine people

several University officials.

University of Virginia hospital

to See FIJI page 8

recently. Duvall will suffer no
permanent complications as a
result of the infection according
to Dr. Jane T. Horton of the Wash-
ington and Lee student health
center.

Tyler has receivedja great deal
ofattention during his stay in the
hospital. The Roanoke and
Randolph Macon basketball
teams sent cards. He has also
been visited by Scott Dittman
and trainer Melanie Middleton
and has received a card from the
Washington and Lee men’s bas-

Campus drug use rising

Duvall’s illness
under control

ketball team.

“There is no medical reason
why he can’t return this year,”
said Horton. “It’s hard for himto
talk because of a shortness of
breath,” she added.

Tyler has begun physical
therapy, but the process will be a
slow one. Duvall still suffers
from weakness, shortness of
breath, and the rash that charac-
terizes the infection. Duvall con-
tracted pneumonia while at the

it See, DUVALL page 8

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Council for Washington and Lee University
accounting professor Lyn Wheeler called for
rtords involving former Career Development and
Placement director Rick Heatley for defense in
Heatley’s civil suit against
Wheeler.

Lawyers from the firm
of Nelson, McPherson,
Summers and Santos of
Staunton, which represents
Wheeler, subpoenaed
records “having to do with

 
 

Heatley ﬁled a lawsuit in Rockbridge County in
October for $600,000 in total damages, alleging
that Wheeler slandered him by “openly accusing
the plaintiff of sexual misconduct in the perfor-
mance of his job duties.” Heatley is represented by
the firm of Gentry, Locke, Rakes and Moore of
Roanoke.

Heatley remains at W&L as Associate Professor
of Classics for 1993-94.

John Elrod, Dean of the College; Robert Fox,
director of personnel; Penny Henneman, associate
director of development; David Howison, dean of
students; Ruth Lewis, assistant director of career
development and placement; Beverly borig, asso-
ciate director of career development and place-

    

Wheeler

   

office relations or person-
nel matters...concerning
Nathan Rick Heatley” from

to See WHEELER page 8

Faculty vote for fall
break beginning in ’94

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Seniors always miss out on

the good stuff.
0 On Monday faculty approved
a two-day mid-fall break for the
1994-1995 school year calendar.
The break would fall on October
20 and 21.

‘‘It would be a four-day week-
end called reading days,” said
Dean of Students David
Howison.

Howison said he introduced a
proposal for a mid-fall break last
year, but it was shot down by
faculty.

“This year we tried it again
md it worked. Perseverance paid
off,” Howison said.

The faculty approved the
break for the 1995-1996 calen-
dar earlier this year, but voted
Monday to start the break for the
1994-95 year.

“The logic was that if we al-
ready had it in the calendar for
’95-’96, then why not put it in for
’94-’95,” said Dean of the Com-
merce School Larry Peppers.

Peppers said Washington and
Lee usually plans its academic
calendar two years in advance.

“The faculty view this as an
experiment,” Peppers said.
“There’s a clear sense that the
faculty want this to work.”

“I hope it’s not abused and
turned into a five-day break. If
it’s abused itwillbe eliminated,”
he added

Students also want it to work.

‘‘I think it’s great,” said junior
Todd Stanton. “From Septem-
ber until November is entirely
too long to go without a break.”

Stanton was also pleased with
the length of the break.

“Two days is even better than
one day. Then people who live in
Atlanta or far away can go home,”
said Stanton.

Seniors were pleased, but
cynical.

“We won’t get to enjoy it,”
said senior Brian Carpenter.

University faculty and admin-
istration will get the long week-
end as well.

Spanish Professor Laurent
Boetsch voted against the break
at the faculty meeting.

“My view is that I don’t deny
that people get worn out, but there
are a lot of reasons why and only
one of them is academic,”
Boetsch said. ‘‘I’d rather have
two days in which we’d only
have classes — no meetings, no
dances, just classes.”

But the majority of the faculty
agreed that the break was a good
idea.

“I think it’s a great idea,” said
Music Professor Gordon Spice.

“I’ve always thought we
needed a break; both faculty and
students and staff and adminis-
tration need a break.”

Number of High
School age
users increases

By THOMAS Hssros
Phi News Editor

Last year, a non-student sold almost two pounds
of marijuana to members of the Washington and
Lee community. His base of operations —— Gaines
Hall.

“Jim” said he sold other drugs in addition to
marijuana over the course of a few months last
year. He sold psilocybin mushrooms aswell. It all
started small.

“A bunch of people I knew approached me and
asked me where they could get a bag (of mari-
juana),” he said.

“My majority of dealings was in marijuana. I
never made any real monetary profit. I just never
had to pay for any of my own drugs.”

Jim sold to several groups of people. He was
careful about his dealing. His buyers rarely dealt
with him personally.

‘‘I was real paranoid about [getting caught],” he
said. “That’s why so few people dealt with me
personally.”

Before establishing a base of operations in
Gaines last year, Jim dealt drugs around town. His
dealings were most often in marijuana, but co-
caine, mushrooms and LSD were not outside his‘
reach. Friends with connections within the W&L
community soon approached him about moving
the drugs he was bringing into the area. Jim’s
business in “hooking people up,” as he put it,
quickly made him a popular man in certain social
circles. He was reluctant, however, to turn a small
operation into a proﬁt-making machine.

“Doing it for proﬁt really made me feel kind of
bad about it,” he said.

Jim had to close up his business when he
became worried about being caught in Gaines with
the drugs. Too many people knew about his
operation, Jim said, so he got smart and left the
dormitory for good.

“Too many people were dropping my name,”
he said.

While Jim was dealing out of Gaines, however,

so See DRUGS page 5

    

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World  

Israelis, Palestinians approve
initial security agreement

Israeli and Palestinian leaders signed an initial agreement
that paves the way for an overall agreement on security issues
between the two nations. Disagreements on border security
had hindered talks between the two nations. Negotiations are
expected to extend into Thursday.

Mexico peasant revolts heat up

Peasants in Teopisca, Mexico seized city hall and blocked
the main road into town, continuing the protest begun by
rebels last month. Other communities in Mexico reported
similar protests. Peasants demanded the resignation of their
leaders and better treatment of the country’s Indian popula-
tion.

Serbs agree to withdraw
weapons from Saraj evo

Bosnian Serbs agreed Wednesday to withdraw the heavy
weaponry from the Bosnian capital of Sarajevo. NATO gave
the Serbs the option of removing the weapons or facing air

strikes. The Serbs will remove the weapons beginning at
noon Thursday and place them under U.N. control.

The Nation 

Spielberg film gets twelve
Academy Award nominations

 

Steven Spielberg’s “Schindler’s List” received 12 Acad-
emy Award nominations, including best picture and best
director. Other best picture nominees include “The Piano,”
“The Remains of the Day,” “The Fugitive,” and “In the Name
of the Father.”

Study shows women’s bones
affected by cigarette smoking

An Australian study shows that cigarette smoking in-
creases women’s risk of bone fractures by making their bones
less dense. The researchers speculate that cigarette smoking
interferes with the body’s production of estrogen.

Brando’s son questioned
in Jackson molestation case

A grand jury interviewed Marlon Brando’s son in Michael
Jackson’s molestation case. Miko Brando worked for J ack-
son as a bodyguard and a valet. A 14-year-old boy accused
the singer of sexually molesting him last year. Jackson
reached an out-of-court settlement last month in the civil
lawsuit brought by his accuser.

Last Tailhook case dismissed

A judge dismissed the last remaining case from the 1991
Tailhook naval convention. The charges of assault an ob-
struction of justice against Marine Lt. Colonel Cass D.
Howell were dropped Tuesday because of insufficient evi-
dence. Pentagon investigators concluded that 83 women
were assaulted or molested at the Tailhook convention.

The State 

VMI unveils Mary Baldwin plan
for parallel women’s program

Virginia’s plan to keep Virginia Military Institute a single-
sex college and set up a program at Mary Baldwin College

. came before a federal judge Wednesday. VMI attorneys said

the program would extend to women the benefits of a single-
sex education. Justice Department attorneys argued that the

. MBC alternative permits sexual discrimination to continue.

Reno investigates Whitewater
Development, Hillary Clinton

A law firm at which Hillary Clinton was once a partner
shredded documents related to the Whitewater Development
Corp last week, The Washington Times reported. According
to anemployee of the firm, the documents included material
proving President and Mrs. Clinton’s involvement in the
Arkansas real estate venture. A counsel appointed by Attor-
ney General Janet Reno is investigating whether funds were
inappropriately diverted from the Madison Guarantee Sav-
ings and Loan to Whitewater and the Clinton gubernatorial
campaign.

  

The Flinq-tum Phi. Februarv 11. 199%

Gallery roof needs repair.

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Portions ofthe ceiling of the Watson
Pavilion may have to be adjusted due
to slight errors in the architect’s and
contractor’s plans for expansion and
contraction.

However, the problem is not severe
and will not cost the University any-
thing, said Thomas V. Litzenburg, di-
rector of the Reeves Center and Watson
Pavilion.

“When you have a building with
such high ceilings and with a dome
with a copper roof, it is rare that you
would get it right,” Litzenburg said.

Another adjustment the staff of the
Watson Pavilion is facing is the lack of
humidity in the gallery.

When the building was designed,
the architect, John Coplin, was told
that 90 percent of the artwork would be
ceramics, which do not require humid-
ity adjustments. He decided at thattime
not to include a humidiﬁer in the cen-
tral heating and cooling system.

Now, however, more furniture has
found a home in the Watson Pavilion
and independent humidifiers must be

crack the furniture.

Litzenburg said that the adjustment
was nothing more than an annoyance.

“We’re now revisiting the question
of humidity since we want more mois-
ture in the building,” he said. “It is not
an uncommon adjustment.”

Litzenburg said the ceiling problem
would not be fixed until the summer.

“We expected that because of the
nature of the dome there would be
some movement,” he said. “We are
going to continue studying it until we
have a very good estimate of the extent
of the expansion and contraction.”

The problem will require only the
re—tapingofsome comers ofthe ceiling
where the drywall intersects, a mea-
sure which the contractor had antici-
pated.

‘‘If that’s the only problem we en-
counter with the building, we’re emi-
nently pleased,” Litzenburg said.

Overall, the staff of the Watson
Pavilion has found the building ex-
tremely well—appointed.

“As each day wears on, we’re more
and more impressed with the build-
ing,” Litzenburg said, “both with the
excellent job the contractor did, and
the subtlety ofthe design and the work

introduced, so the dryness would not

of the architect."

 

I File Photo

The roof of the Watson Pavilion will need some repair.

IFC discusses new Rush plan“

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

Plans for a deferred fall or winter Rush were
considered in Tuesday’s lnterfraternity Council
meeting.

No consensus was reached, however, and discus-
sion of the options is to continue in the next few
meetings.

The IFC for the second week in a row accepted
suggestions concerning next fall’s Rush schedule
from fraternity representatives. The council had a
preliminary proposal which includes holding Open
Houses sooner and adjusting the periods of Open
Contact, when freshmen can associate openly with

fraternity members.

Associate Dean of Students for Greek Affairs
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins said the faculty voted last
week to add a two-day fall vacation next year. He said
this change to the calendar could give the planners
more options. Atkins said he advises the fraternity
representatives to discuss various plans with their
houses before holding an IFC vote.

One alternative Atkins proposed was a type of
deferred Rush in which the Open Houses would be
held at the beginning of the fall term, and preference
parties themselves would not be held until the fall
break. ln this plan, those students who wish to Rush
would stay in Lexington over the break.

Junior Adam Plotkin, a Sigma Nu members, said
he had developed a plan of his own, which would

involve a similar deferred Rush.

Atkins said either Rush would be shortened to
avoid the problems caused by alcohol at parties or
lengthened so it would be more casual. 6

A representative from lambda Chi Alpha said a

lengthened Rush would be a financial burden on that «

fraternity.

“We couldn’t keep up with the houses that have
ten or ﬁfteen thousand dollar social budgets,” he said.

“More than likely the current Rush procedure will
be in effect this year, but [the IFC] will consideréhe
pros and cons of the fall break,” said IFC President
Curt Smith

At the meeting Smith said he wanted IFC to work
with the Student Activities Board to have a school-
wide activity one weekend during Rush.

VMI unveils Mary Baldwin plan

Controversy could be settled if plan is accepted .

‘s’h95\'4v

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-um Phi
Cadets march in formation, sans females. If the Mary Baldwin plan is accepted, VMI may

be able to retain its all-male status by launching a parallel program at MBC.

Security system considered

By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

The dorms at Washington and Lee may soon
receive card-access systems for security, which would
require anyone wanting to enter the dorms to use a
university card to unlock the
door.

W&L Director of Security
Mike Young said the system
would start with the outside
doors to the freshman dorms
and Gaines, as well as the indi-
vidual women’s halls and pos-
sibly all individual halls.

“The card access system,”
said Young, “would eliminate
anyone without a university
card from the buildings. And
it’s all on computer, so access
can be resticted even further,
such as an individual hall hav-
ingtheir’s programmed to keep
out anyone but the people who
live there for certain times of
the day.”

“So at, say, 11:00, only the
girls on the hall can unlock the
door and everyone else -

 

Young

whether it’s Ted Bundy or your boyfriend — can’t
get in. ”

“We’re talking about a lot of expensive hardware
here,” said Young. He estimated the cost forjust the
outside doors and hallways to be around $50,000,
and he said while funding has been requested, no
purchases have yet been made.

“The card-access security
system has been in my plans
for a while,” said Young. “lt’s
been a goal of mine since I
came here three years ago.
When they rewired the dorms
for cable and computers, they
put in the wiring for this kind
of system. The wiring’s all
there — we had the foresight to
do that —- we just need the
hardware.”

Young said increasing se-
curity at W&L “has been a
gradual process. When the
women first came here, noth-
ing was locked. ‘They added
locks to the hall doors, but they
weren’t used much.”

“Now we have alarms to
keepdoorsfrom being propped
open and security guards
watching things at night."

From Staff Reports

 

Virginia State Attorney General are on
opposite sides of a plan designed to
alleviate Virginia Military Institute’s
coeducation woes.
The plan, which involves the estab-
lishment of a program for women at
Mary Baldwin College, is supp rted
by the attorney general, who sai the
program could create female versions
of the male citizen-soldiers who gradu-
ate from VMI. The Justice Depart-
ment, however, maintained that the
parallel program at Mary Baldwin will
allow sexual discrimination to con-
tinue. 9
State Attorney General James
Gilmore told U.S. District Judge Jack-
son Kiser that the program would dif-
fer from the program at VMI in that it
would eliminate the combat training
and military-style atmosphere found at
VMI. But Justice Department Amor-
ney Gary Haugen said the differences
in the two programs are based on gen-
der stereotypes, which is contrary to a
4th U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals deci-
sion on the VMI case.

Kiser ruled that VMl’s educational
experience would suffer if women were
to be admitted, but his decision ofthree
years ago was overruled by a higher
court. An attorney for VMI said the
battle to retain VMI ’s single-sex iden-
tity is a pivotal battle for all other
single-sex institutions.

I
I Justice Department lawyers argl the
l

C

 

 
    
   
  
  
  

  

The Rigg-turn Phi, February 11, 1994 2 e

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

., As we approach February Break, students are ﬁnalizing
‘A eir plans and packing their bags, while others settle in for

a bit of studying.

Many people are planning to go
home and relax over the 10-day break.

‘‘I’m going to spend a relaxing break
at home,” said freshman Brian Greeff.

Others, like freshman Dave Seidel,

ave put a twist in the plan. “I’m going
home, and then coming back on
Wednesday to go to my girlfriend’s
house.

Others are doing some really risqué
things when they go home, though.

“I’m getting my wisdom teeth pulled

jut,” said freshman Caitlyn Pendleton.

Kathy Lu, a freshman, who is going
home to Massachusetts, said, “l’m go-
ing to do a term paper.”

Aside from going home, there are
three big hot spots this year, said Leslie
Wallace of the TLC Travel Agency in
‘exington.

“Number one is Cancun, because
of the warmth. Colorado is number
two, and Mardi Gras is third,” said
Wallace.

“You can either choose warm or
cold forskiing,” said Wallace. “Mardi
Eras is also very popular because the

reak hits that perfectly.”

California.

For groups of students in search of the cold so they can
hit the slopes to enjoy some skiing, the most popular
destination is Colorado. Good skiing can also be found all
across this country in such places as Killington in Vermont

Photo by Betsy Green for The Ring-tum Phi
Students are packing their bags and getting ready to leave for the 10-
day Washington Holiday which ends Sunday, Feb. 20.

For sun, many groups of students are headed for the
Bahamas, in addition to Cancun. Other popular destinations
include Palm Springs, the Florida Keys, St. Croix, and

and Taos in New Mexico.

is the rest going to do?

the vacation spirit.

weeks.

list for you:

somewhere cool.

tan.

Essential Compact Discs for February

By BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

There is one phenomena that seems to be com-
mon among Washington and Lee students.

9 The lack of a decent radio station causes CD
collections to explode. Instead of j ust charging home
an armload of CD’s the next time you buy books,
consider a more rational approach. After all, you
can’t buy every CD that looks good. A refined
collection also demands variety. If you only buy
three CD’s this month, which should they be?

I Do yourself a favor and pick up Lyle Lovett’s
1992 releaseJoshuaJudges Ruth . You will be taken
in by the piano music and acoustic guitars. Lovett’s
-voice is like a comforting hand on your shoulderthat
warms you all day.

Joshua Judges Ruth blends songs with an amaz-
ing array of sounds. “You’ve Been So Good Up to
Now” will make you want to slow dance with
someone special. The gospel sounds of “Church”
prompt you to clap and sing along. The first wail of
sax in “All My Love Is Gone” pulls you into a
bluesy, introspective mood. Joshua Judges Ruth is
the CD that should be on your stereo the next time
you’re in a quiet, mellow mood. Make yourselfa cup

coffee, look out the window at the rain, and listen
to Lyle Lovett. Even non-country fans will realize
that Julia Roberts was the lucky one.

Every CD collection needs to be stocked with
some classic rock. Hotel California by The Eagles is
an essential. It would be impossible not to like this
CD; these are songs you forgot you know by heart.
Joe Walsh’s guitar playing is not to be missed. Don

nley’s vocals have a fascinating hint of restraint
that gives the songs and almost unreal feeling. So
many things in Hotel California have that same
intriguing mystery about them. As they sing in the
title cut,

“‘Relax’, said the night man

‘We are programmed to receive.
9 You can check out any time you like,
but you can never leave.”’

 

LYLE Lovarr

Take this CD on your next road trip. Roll down
the windows, turn the volume up, and sing along. As
you belt out “Life in the Fast Lane,” imagine all of the
people who must have done the same thing before
you, everyone from Amy Fisher and Joey Buttafuoco
to your parents.

Finally, search as hard as you have to forSmeared,
the debut album by the band Sloan. Sloan is at the
forefront of the growing music scene to the North in
Halifax, Nova Scotia, reputed to be the next Seattle.
Sloan’s sound is hard to describe. They are a bit
reminiscent of the bemonheads or Radiohead, but
with a style like nothing you have heard before.
Sloan’s lyrics are clever and will remind you of
people you know. The song “Underwhelmed,” for
example, is a hilarious description of unrequited
love.

“She skips her classes and gets good grades.

I go to my courses rain or shine.

She’s passing her classes while I attend mine.”

The vocal harmonies and irresistible drum beats
will keep you moving through the faster songs. The
rhythms will follow you for the rest of the day. Chris
Murphy’s vocals in the slower songs will be a secret
only you can hear. Next Friday as you’re getting

ready to go out, crank up Smeared and toss your hair
around. Then tell your friends that you were the first
kid on your hall to be into that cool new
Halifax scene.

 

phenomenon in Lexington.

v

D February 12, 1944, The Columns featured a story about the low registration
at W&L. As the University entered its first quarter of the new four quarter
system, it had a civilian student body of approximately 100 students, the
smallest in the Universities’ history. The total W&L student body, including
civilians and Army SpecializedTraining cadets numbered 325.

On February 1 1, 1969, the Phi reported a story concerning the invasion of

Q Lexington by unidentified ﬂying objects. On three occasions in less than a
week a red, ﬁery UFO was reported flying across the Lexington skies. The
first sighting was by residents of Taylor Street. They said that the object
stopped and hovered above the Robert E. Lee Hotel for about five minutes.
During this time it lowered a fireball to the ground. The same residents
reported a similar incident three nights later, however this time the fireball
was lowered on Stonewall Jackson hospital. The sightings were validated
3 when a Bedford County Sheriff’s Officer saw a similar occurrence the
following night in the neighboring county. A total of 20 people viewed the

For the W&L Record

Compiled by JAY wnma of the Phi Staff

On February 9, 1984, the Phi gave the annual Trustees report. The Board
of Trustees approved a $715 tuition hike, to $6515.

In the same meeting they endorsed the idea ofa student pavilion and the
proposed student tax to partially finance the project. Trustees also stated that
they would investigate thoroughly the possibility of coeducation.

On February 9, 1989, the Phi reported on various W&L and Lexington
area robberies and acts of vandalism. The previous year had seen the stealing
of approximately 100 tapes from the Bookstore and various items from
carrels in the undergraduate library. An update said many of these thieves
were apprehended and found to be local residents.

The current crime wave included the steal ing ofcash and a set ofkeys from
the C-school. One of the keys was used to open the change compartment of
a copy machine. A secretary in Tucker Hall reported that a total of$190 was
stolen from her desk. Fire extinguishers were also set off in Newcomb and
Robinson Halls. Police believe that the crimes were perpetrated by people
passing through town, not locals.

So, if majority of W&L is going to go bond with either
family or friends, either at home or someplace exotic, what

The winter sports teams are all staying to practice, except
for baseball. The baseball team will be playing in Florida.
Others arejust hanging out, catching up on work, or road
tripping to Philadelphia or D.C. for a couple of days to catch

Before you leave for break:

1. Remember that plane ticket. You
need it to get on the plane.

2. Bring money. A lot of it and pref-
erably someone elses.

3. Try not to make *he accidental turn
on to the “Quintuple Black Diamond
slope” if you are a beginner.

4. Bring your schoolbooks.

5. Don’t do your homework.

6. Notice — FD is coming up in three

7. Don’t worry about FD.

8. Try not to forget packing your tooth-
brush. lt’s the little things that count.

If you are not lucky enough to be
getting away from Lexington, here is a

1. “Borrow” a car a take a road trip to

2. Go out to dinner once in a while.
3. Don’t do your homework.
4. Lay out on the Hill and try to get a

5. Go sledding behind Leyburn Li-
brary. Try not to make an accidental turn
into any large trees.

PAGE 3

:February Plans call for sun, snow, and parties

37118343 * 3-'iil3'N t Plﬂxﬂ - ¥'1.£3’H '

You CAN do
ANGU

February 12, 1993

As low as:
$449/4 nights
$509/7 nights

Air from Dulles

, F 1
Cancun is a popular destination with the studeiiets
this year. The snow and Mardi Gras are also poular.

Photo

6. What do you mean, “There’s no snow behind Leyburn
Library?” That’s not the point. (Besides, haven’t you heard
of ice—blocking?)

7. Don’t worry about FD.

8. Use your toothbrush. lt’s the little things that count.

The Foreign Student
to arrive in theaters soon

By MELXSSA SAWYER
Phi Assistant Features Editor

Washington and Lee’s campus will
soon be displayed in movie theaters
throughout the United States and Eu-
rope.

The movie adaptation of Philippe
Labro’s The Foreign Student is due for
release this spring. Labro, an exchange
student at W&L in 1956, wrote The
Foreign Student about his experiences
at a small southern college.

For the movie, the college is called
Asheland-Stuart, a coeducational
school.

The Foreign Student which was
published in 1986, was on the French
bestseller list for 30 weeks, and won a
major literary prize. Labro is now a
renowned author in Europe, and has
had several subsequent bestsellers, in-
cluding One Summer Out West, Le
Petil , and Fifteen.

Labro is also a director,,but orginall y
had refused to direct the production of
his own novel.

After going through three produc-
ers, however, including 1954 W&L
graduate Paul Maslansky (The Police
Academy series), finally Tarak Ben
Ammar (The Color Purple) got the
filming process rolling.

French fashion andjournalism pho-
tographer Eva Sereny, winner of the
British Academy of Motion Picture
Arts and Sciences award for her short
film The Dress, agreed to work on the
film.

In December of 1992, Sereny and
her producer, Mark bombardo, were
scouting a place to film the movie.
After looking throughout the Caroli-
nas and Georgia, they saw Lexington

and decided that W&L was the perfect
location. After some initialhesitation,
the administration agreed to allow the
filming to take place on campus, start-
ing in March.

Many W&L students and alumni
were chosen to be a part of the film,
along with actress Robin Givensand
actor Marco Hofschneider (Europa,
Europa). '

Some W&L students working on
the film had speaking parts. They
received on-screen credit and the Screen
Actor’s Guild minimum daily wage
(about $460) for their work. Several
students also worked as extras for the
film.

Junior Brian McClung auditioned

in Richmond and received a speaking.

part in the film.

At the time, McClung said “lt’s a
total fluke. lt wasjust luck.”

Once the auditions were over, the
camera crews filmed the Colonnade
one day and Evans Dining Hall. the
second.

Senior Heather Aussiker, an .extra
in the film, said she was surprised the
director didn’t take more shots ofW& L.

“It would have been hard‘ for the
University to accommodate more [film-
ing], especially with all ofthe students
here,” Aussiker said. , I

Aussiker said that the scene she
worked in was the opening sequence,

in which the student first arrives on -

campus. This opening sequence ofthe
film shows the Colonnade.

“lt’s a beautiful shot. The school
looks really good,” said Aussiker

The film,with an $8 million budget,
will be released by Gramercy Films,
reportedly in March. Lornbardo said
he hopes to have the film play in at
least 250 cinemas nationwide.

 

W The Ring-tum Phi, February 1l,l9§lé

‘Off “I3 mark by Mark Paris! Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers
by Jeff MacNel1y

 

    MENS ROOM l5 Pluggers
Moving 5Moo‘n-l1_\/...NO DELAYS. HOLJEVER, . \\ - - » .\\\ \ .\ _\\, -
TRAl3FlC TO mi: LAD/ES ROOM is BACKED-UP  / \ A
BEYOND 1115 SNACK MACHlNl:’ AND INTO THE \ \\\*\\s ‘ g  -ﬁANtlO0g;5N”§§§F
FRONT L065)’. IF yourzr H£ADlNG 70 7115  ,\\~-  HAMMER5 \
LADlES ROOM, I SUGGEST Vou 'l7li<E YOUR m x . . ,

CHANCES-wn’H THE MENS Room omrzv AN
ALTERNATE RJUTE TO THE HE%[S OUT SlDE.

7

   

 

 
 
 
       
 

     
   

   
   
 

     
    
   

   
 

   
 
  
 
 

\
  . .
.1 , Dave by David Miller "
:7 THAT PCT Ké AND 1212 RED ' THWK Yaw FEE’?
I __ \ ' “ ‘ W‘ rHA~i<;,vAr<L.A,i ALOT MORE‘!-JANDY IF
ggz/211’ ..  :._  V‘ Youﬂ DiMMEl2 éwi-1214 _r THINKJD FEELHA WT You 0,9 we REP/“R; ‘/
 r ‘\ Mom’: HANDY 1F 1
'7 .- OWNED i~sreAl> OF
"’ /03 ~\ RENTED.’

Plugger hardware stores still sell
nails by the pound.

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 10 11 12 3
1Russiannews  E  ’
agency
9

BY 

\\/lL'='EV

  
    
     
  
  

OFT l W éN\
lN ‘WE l‘\\NV—3\Eé...

pile

14 Ceremony
15 Story line
16 Wooden shoe
17 Mine entrance

’ 18 Forming sticky

threads

19 Indian group
20 Relates
22 Man of the cloth
23 Protracted
24 Dime or quarter 1
25 Mother or father
28 Discretion

 
 

   

   

     
   
   

 

 

   
     

 

  
 
  

 
    

32 Con —

33 Beasnv one. , ~‘ 33.: 

32 e:;“a;':.:";29. 41f@i'«l1@l’   l @ E

36 Movesheavily   ‘ 

2; 22:32:51,. . 8! 1 1 .. , THEGATES OPEN,
39  Clem In C1894 Tribune Me Services. Inc by HM’ P"’,$ "\ . u; “E 
2? $:fy°,';ﬁs,,::;e A“ Mm Me’ Last week’s puzzle solved ﬁlly I I  
43 With less money 9 Spanning  
44 Gaelic 10 Leatherneck

45 Increased in 11 Roses love 67 I _‘_‘p A I  

jg  1: §;:::;':°“ $1 5%? ' /,5; = set BUSINESS

I ts IYEC |O|'l .0 .

53 Ex un e 21 To -n tch (.0 ca _ “ “. ' o _ ‘P;_'_"‘_
izizfziiiei 22 -*"“"‘ 3&3‘? -‘-> 2-12°‘-=*”:*--~- = i
56 Church official 24 Lacking polish “ -‘*
E);   ‘é<r)1liJerIr"ta£alin ’ .'3‘3-’——.——. ;7 My LEGS SEEM 1-0 »
s9§?;%';2?; §Zi’§l‘;;:“.iems “s*il“¢é%Ti’i£5 sii‘>‘i’é¥i.:i§‘-’rlI'oii'},i...
60 Horse lood 29 More pleasing

61 Gift o1 charity 30 Make happen

1 gOWN  Esiiigglnpart of a ‘E
2 Arsgirftant 36 Orr“dienary writing %; /L/Q‘
3 Recipe word 37 Bestowed 2 a. '
4 Ploneers. at .. _ . .abunc_1antly —§  ‘
times . 39 Certain windows 45 Enormous 49 Entreaty "E  _ ,
5 Run quickly 40 Digits 46 Forest 50 Roman tyrant  V
6 Forward 42 Sneaky one creature 51 Follow secretly § § \
7 saturates 43 Dresses with 47 A Gardner 52 Grai — 5 , \
8 Filthy place care 48 Lose color 54 —. amas. amat 3 1% \ \

-.00ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo.

O . -

: : Energetic woman caught in down hill relationship, ‘l

: : looking for guy who can show her something different. 3  A

: . Let’s meet at Snowboard Park at Massanutten this  A '
0 : Friday night when the prices start to slide! '  

, . , ..

. i 1 /\ ~.

, .

° 0 ...__  Li

. ~ - I {  ‘.-

; y y 5 Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. LEEMHI "  _ ,1 

° ‘i 1' ‘ - 2000 sq ft 4 bedrooms - can hold u 9 " u "
. . - p to 6 .

, 1 0 . , Saturday Morning- All U Can Eat P c k

: Get your ,7 D Tux at {Totally Tarty. : people. Fireplace, wood stove, refrigerator, Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Brggkfasets

; Get aown to f]'ota((y partyfor : ceiling fans, and huge bar. Secluded location Meals That Cater to BigAppetites

; Aayour FD neeas. : about 3 miles from town. Rent $200/person _ Br akfast Buffet

; : (regardless of number of people). Beautiful Friday and Saturday Nights 11 P-m--4a-m- %
; ‘Jlixeoos start at $44.50 : view. Large yard - with ball field. Call Nate Rt 11 North S““‘:2:,,_93:;;‘;3"2 P-“‘- 0 en 24 Hours

2 Rentaf «no Consignment Dresses, too. 2 0’ LEWIS f°1' m01‘e Info, 463-6337 P - —
. I V I .

: iffaﬁtes, chairs, (men, cﬁtna, E Em $500_ $1000 Weekly Smfﬁng J, I 2 /I‘. L1
0 tents’ becorqttons, aha more] , envelopes. For details - RUSH ' - ‘ < -3
'. - $1.00 with SASE to:

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo° GTOUPFIVE
57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307
Dover, DE 19901 .. )
Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee , t   y .1 H _
V  ‘V '   ..:;" ' '

- Counselors for Summer Scholars June 29 - July 31, 1994 530"’-“W3” iggfggtgg If "'9 C9019’ .
463-980,0
Esiilmmer Sclholars is a four—week program for 100 rising high school senoirs. b g I

, ac counse or serves as a resident advisor for 10 students in Graham—Lees  . . r‘ S '

 dormitory. '   4  S

e , , _ Comic Books - Bu 3 et a 4th FREE

 - Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 13 - August 2 y g .

. seetmns is

1 The Office of Special Programs employs 4 W&L students to serve as

: lCi:os1t1s/hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni Westen QWZQTE

,, o eges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities ,

; management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation. 3 Casslngles $9-50 01' $5-49 3301\-

ti

= Application deadline, February 28, 1993. C°‘“‘t"3' 8‘ western CD5 52 Off-

3.

3 , . _ _ Cassettes $1 Off

‘ For further information, please contact Office of the Special Programs, Howard

3 House, 463_8723_ Open Mott.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 8! Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m.,

3_, Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

I..1 Jr‘

 

 

 

 

  

V

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11,1994

EMB

PAGE 5

Marijuana: W&L student’s drug of choice

‘L DRUGS, from page 1

he was able to get a realistic view of
W&L’s problems with drug abuse.

“My dealings were mostly with stu-
dents and a few employees of W&L,”
he said. “I know several people who

Oiave smoked pot in Gaines and some
who still do.”

Jim views the drug problem at W&L
as something that has decreased in in-
tensity over the past decade or so, but is
still making its presence felt.

“ [The drug problem] has decreased
over the years,” he said. “A few years
back — I knew that it was rampant.”

But national surveys contradict
Jim’s view. A recent survey of51,000
high school and eighth grade students
in more than 400 schools found that the
anti-drug message is not being listened

The University of Michigan study
found that 9 percent of eighth graders,
19 percent of 10th graders and 26 per-
cent of 12th graders admitted to using
marijuana in the past year. Compared
to an identical survey taken last year,

hese are increases of between 2 and 4
éercentage points.

Dr. James Worth, counseling psy-
chologist at W&L, said these statistics
will affect W&L’s student body soon.

“lt’s going to affect all colleges and
universities,” he said. ‘‘I don’t think
we can put our heads in the sand about

That.”

Worth said he gets information about
the drug problem at W&L from various
sources: students, other faculty mem-
bers and fellow counseling psycholo-
gist and Associate Dean of Students
Anne Schroer-Lamont, to name a few.
0 “[My information] is a little better
than what an average person might
hear out on the street because some of
it is privileged communication and
people would have no reason to lie,” he
said. “The common wisdom around
here has been ‘yes, we have alcohol
Qroblems, but we really don’t have
drug problems’ But I’m hearing that
we actually are having an increase in
the use of recreational drugs.”

A W&L senior agreed with Worth.

“I’d say [drug use] is up,” he said,
“especially with the freshmen.”

Q Worth said he is aware of which
drugs are commonly used by W&L
students: marijuana, but not heroin;
LSD, but not freebased cocaine.
Freebasing is a method in which co-
caine is put into solution and injected,
rather than snorted.

. “I understand from what l’ve been

told that marijuana usage is increasing
and is fairly widespread,” he said. “I’m
hearing that there is at least some use of
cocaine on campus, although l’ve not
heard of any crack. I hear occasionally
about LSD and mushrooms. I have not
heard of any heroin use. l’ve not heard
about freebased cocaine.”

Another senior agreed.

“Pot is definitely the main drug of
choice on campus,” he said. “LSD and
’shrooms come and go. They’re here
one day and gone the next.”

Worth said he has not heard about
the use of designer drugs, which are
substances manufactured in a labora-
tory to function like other drugs.

“Designer drugs... I haven’t heard
one way or another, but it does seem
like there’s more talk about use of
drugs now thanthree years ago,” Worth
said.

Worth said he is particularly dis-
tressed by the notion that students who
may have problems with drugs may
rule out seeking help from the
university ’s two psychologists because
they are wrongly seen as a part of the
disciplinary process at W&L.

“I am not part of the disciplinary
process in this school,” Worth said. “I
wasn’t hired for that. I don’t want the
students to think that they have to come
in and get a spanking from Dr. Worth if
they’re caught with drugs or alcohol.”

Worth stressed that he is there to
help students. A student who ap-
proaches Worth with a potential drug
or alcohol problem is guaranteed con-
fidentiality, he said.

Worth said he will give a student a
fair assessment of any problems they
might have with drugs or alcohol,
should they ask for one.

“If [a student] is addicted, he needs
to know so that he can get help. I just
don’t want the student body to think
that we (Worth and Schroer-Lamont)
are disciplinary people. It comes across
that way. I don’t know what to do
about it and it really bothers me.”

Worth said after he establishes a
rapport with a student who comes to
him for help, he can conduct an assess-
ment and a drug and alcohol history for
the student. If the student shows no
signs of addiction or strong psycho-
logical dependence, the student can be
dealt with as an ordinary student
counselee, Worth said.

“However,” said Worth, “if there is
a question of addiction or strong psy-
chological dependence, then we would
probably refer to a drug treatment cen-
ter for a second assessment to augment

our own.”

These assessments contribute to a
recommendation for the student, Worth
said.

If a student is mandated to have a
session with Worth but the Student
Conduct Committee, Worth said he
would tell the appropriate dean that the
student came to see him and what he
recommended to the student, but no
details of the conversation would be
given.

A contributor to the drug problem,
Worth said, is the strong Greek system
that provides much of the social life at
W&L.

However, the individual fraterni-
ties themselves may not be contribut-
ing to the drug problem. Rather, Worth
said, the people who take risks with
drugs are generally more gregarious,
impulsive, spontaneous and somewhat

more rebellious.

“Where do people like that usually
hang out? They’re probably not going
to be alone on a Saturday night in their
donn room,” said Worth. “They’re
probably going to be a member of a
social club or fraternity — As a group,
the kinds of characteristics that lead a
person to join a fraternity may also be
the kinds of characteristics that may
lead a person to experiment with drugs.”

This is not to say that campus Greeks
are the culprits, said Worth.

“There are people in fraternities who
have never and will never use drugs or
even alcohol,” he said.

And the social aspect of the Greek
system adds to the temptation to abuse
drugs, Worth said.

“There’s a social aspect to the use of
substances,” Worth said. “If your group
tolerates or encourages the use of mari-

. Valley

     

.7/7ue"7/z&<e

HARDWARE STORES ‘‘

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
O3 E. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2186

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII,

Fancy Dress is a memorable
event, so dine at a
memorable restaurant!

The Willson-Walker House
30 N. Main Street
463-3020

Reservations now being accepted for
Lunch and Dinner! Make your reservations
early and avoid the last minute rush!

9:
1

. IIIIIII:IIIIIIIIIII*IIIIIIIIII

The

 

HOUSE

Restaurant

*IIII'IIII IIIIIIIIIIIII

 

WlLLSON-
WAL K E R

§l

   
  
   

    

     

‘li“'I“‘l‘l‘"I‘*
:1 ii! I}:

i  FT
 ::5 l

      
   

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII;

    

  
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
     

u-an--—-------nnn--nu--Q-on

U ' "' I I 3 U

SPRINGBREAK packages. ' EZ CARD. BOX 16516 ATLANTA GA 30 2 '
Promote on campus or Signup | I

D N ha rih t nized d

Now for rooms! mama. ......... .:;.r;s:.. .“.:.*‘::.:._..v:..":.°:.;°°.;*§....c.“.:;. . Y ES! nwanewsao/msrmamcma-t -

Panama City, $99 and up. credit cards..“in your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Caidsapproved immediately. 100% GUARANTEED! I

can CMI 1_800_423_5264 CREDIT 0!‘ HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BElW)RE! ' . I

VISAG and Mastr.-rCard® the credit cards you I '

- INTERNATIONAL deserve and need Ior— ID--BOOKS—Dl-ZPARTMENT | NAME I

. EMPLOYMENT~ STORES—TUITION—ENTERTAINMENI‘— . |
Make up to $2,000$4,000+ EMERSENCY mSH—TEKmS—mST  ' ADDRESS .

P9’ "‘°““‘ .‘°“°““‘g ".“”° REPAIRS—AND iwbogsiw gun CEASDIT RATING! I CITY STATE .... ZIP I

conversational English ' '

abroad. Japan, Taiwan, STUDENT? Yes NO S s_# '

and S. Korea. Many ‘ﬁe "0 turn doﬁnsl ' _

emp1oye=sPr°Vider°°m5= coal‘ ﬁgs“ No cred it checks! ' SIGNATURE '

o b°“’d “ °“‘°’ b°“°ﬁ'5' N° 5g|0|55‘¢"g 5”‘ No security deposit! ' mm: Masiacnid Is - registered trademark d Manama Intemiiiioml. Inc. '
'e?°*‘i“8 ba°“8’°““d_ :3 ‘gukolﬁﬁq I5“ I Visa is . registered tradeimrk olVISA USA. Inc. and VISA invmnuomi I
?§l“.2.§?§?§§.‘ii§§§.‘i‘Z.u; i‘ saw me coupon mom] . '

(206) 632-1146 YouR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING. L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _|

Ext. J5342

CATALOG
OUTLET

Lexington 17 South Main St.
Famous Menfs & Women’s Apparel and Shoes
from America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order
Companies. New Shipments Every Week.
Guaranteed.

Now an additional 25 % off of any
item already on sale.

Savings of 25% to 75% off.
Hours: Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 463-9730

W&L Art

We have three

R. E. Lee

Signatures; Two are War Date.

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

IWIWURHS
Blllllllll

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday

10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

 

  
 
  
    
   
  

juana, there is going to be a tendency
for new members of that group to fol-
low the group norm.”

Students who serve as dealers or as
connections also contribute to the prob-
lem.

Worth said access to illegal drugs
factors into the problem somewhat.

“Doctors have two or three times
the addiction rate that the average popu-
lation has. Why? Because they have
access,” he said.

A W&L senior said his fraternity
connections give him access to drugs
that he wouldn’t have as an indepen-
dent

“I can get just about anything I
want,” he said. “If I can’t get it person-
ally, someone in my fraternity can get
it for me.”

Worth said increased use due to
access is indicative that drug education

is not enough. According to Worth,
some persuasion against drug abuse
must also be employed if the drug
problem is to be solved.

“Education alone doesn’t do it,” he
said. “There has to be persuasion along
with education. And where you have
access, if you don’t have education and
persuasion, you will have increased
use.”

Jim thinks this may be why some
W&L students who few people would
suspect of abusing drugs are users.

“People who they (W&L profes-
sors) consider to be their best students
— I know use drugs.”

Editors ’s note: The name Jim is a
fictitious name used to protect the
source and provide clarity in the ar-
ticle. Names were witheld to protect
the identity of the sources

‘Ii 1‘; f’\' 5

 

4 53:4 at -
-,*:5“>.‘34.-.'-‘ IR? 4.3-‘

and Restaurant

-' .»-95:15!’«:~>.;i$\$:52AJ~>
--. -.' _ »' '1 ~.- _.'

\.

' -. ' 1: ‘'1'’ ‘-r'‘..' ‘~:-
:2-v.%x*a£=*E~‘?A::-5-?!§3~‘§’#a:l?‘€:{l?"&a:{*:s~

Part-Time Help Wanted

Work approximately 20 hrs. per week 5
Opportunity to earn $400 - $800 per month starting:
immediately - College Students Welcome :
Call 463-1676 :

". A’: -‘.'.'i‘ I.‘-_.‘/‘ ‘
.

L’) -_ _
’.'-'."-'.":-'5'.’-',"‘-'-' '39 '.-’.

Chef Stewart prepares daiy culinary delights if
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

Gift Certificates Now Available

 Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) '5 3'
" ' 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. -
Call for reservations: 703-463-9715

  

 

 

 

    

PAGE 6

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1994
OPINION o

 

.. . . .. -3, rfi'.4'.-t'5e‘..:._;-,-.,7/_.$é..-g/:¢..,_..._ .J-__ .._.,u.§,.0. - .: ......

.\«35

" 1‘.

Flip: tiling-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Common courtesy

Suppose you are renting an apartment from a local landlord. The
landlord wants to make some repairs to your apartment. What does
the landlord do? He makes an appointment or some kind of
arrangement with you, right?

But when Washington and Lee’s fraternity members rent prop-
erty from the university in their fraternity houses, those basic
concessions go right out the window. Many fraternity members
will tell you unfamiliar repair and maintenance people are con-
stantly walking in and out of their fraternity house without being
announced or telling anyone why they are there.

Why this invasion of privacy? Is it too inconvenient for Build-
ings and Grounds to call a fraternity house mother to set up an
appointment to make repairs? Evidently so.

Most service businesses set up an appointment with the people
who hire them. If your television set breaks, the repairman will let
you know approximately what time to expect a visit. If you have
problems with leaky pipes, you can expect the plumber to set up an
appointment rather than just “dropping by.”

Safety Officer Jim Boyd of Buildings and Grounds also likes to
make surprise visits. His inspections of fraternity houses often
come at inopportune moments, such as in the early morning after
a Wednesday night party. But regardless of when these inspections
occur, they all have one thing in common: they come without
warning. A

This doesn’t seem to make sense. Boyd inspects the fraternity
houses for damage and for cleanliness. Maybe if he gave the
fraternity house mothers some advance warning about when he
will make a visit, the brothers in the house would have a chance to
fix any damage or clean any mess that needs attention. This could
save B&G a trip and save the fraternity a bit of money.

Now let’s get back to the rental property scenario: If you were
renting an apartment from a landlord in town and an unknown
person walked in without being announced, what would you do?
Maybe you would call the police. Perhaps you might challenge the
person at the door. Maybe you might do something else. But you
would not allow the person to just walk in and out of your
apartment, would you? How does the situation change when you
rent a piece of property from the university? It doesn’t. Or at least
it shouldn’t.

The members of W&L’s fraternities, or anyone who lives in
university housing for that matter, should not tolerate this blatant
violation of their privacy. Whatever the legal implications of the
situation may be, it is rude and inconsiderate to barge into someone ’ s
private living area, regardless of the reason.

An ounce of prevention

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard would like to pass along a
few words of wisdom to those who will be leaving town for break.

He said students should lock their doors and secure their
windows before leaving. Seems obvious, doesn’t it?'Double check
to make sure you’ve locked up. Beard advises driving a nail in the
top frame of windows that don’t have a lock so the window can not
be raised.

//_,,{x\K<\

..\>*l/4.».
C

 

Cultural insecurity threatens war

It is probably trite by now to write an article on the
situation in Bosnia; most of us are tired of hearing
about the whole thing. So let me be clear that it is not

my intention to analyze the
war there in political terms

only, and to propose a set of
actions that President
Clinton, for example, should
undertake. That would be
fruitless. Instead, I will try
to analyze the war from a
more detached, historical
point of view. In short, I
shall ask: just why are these
people fighting in Bosnia,

and what does it, or should it, mean for us?

Let me preface my interpretations with this simple
reminder: there are two sides to human nature, the
social and the selfish. Different words can be used to
expressed this duality, like communal and individual-
istic, but it all amounts to the same thing. It is human

 
 
   

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

worked around, not tink-
ered with. Prejudice may
be a human imperfection,

our own paths, to establish our own unique and

personal “cultures?” Why not create a world society

based on tolerance, and not on moralism? Throw off
the shackles of tradition, in
short, and be free.

fortunately this is all non-
sense —-— abstract dreaming
worthy of the philosophes,
but not of right-thinking
people. For did we not say
that it is part of human nature
to form these attachments to
the group, even to dislike
those not in the group? Does
anyone still believe that human nature can be per-
fected, or even essentially changed? If so, they should
put off all such illusions: human nature ‘must be Cultural insecurity has never existed at the same

Tempting indeed, but un-

ideas may serve to soothe long-lasting divisions,
but in the long run they inevitably lead to a reaction,
to a reassertion of cultural differences, even by way
of force. Let us remember, frightened people are
violent people. ‘

What can be done? We must blunt the influence
of forces like relativism and individualism: th
lead to the death of culture.
moreover, as we mentioned, that culture refuses to
die — it is too embedded in our natures. When
threatened, it reacts (and strongly too). We must
provide, therefore, a vehicle for nations and ethnic
groups to feel secure in their identities, to feel that
they may stand some chance against the onslaught
of MTV and Coca—Cola, and against all the em-
blems of our valueless feel-good pop culture (most
especially Barney, the culture—destroying dinosaur).

The problem IS,

high level as it does
today, mainly because
of the dubious bless-

Beard also advised Students who are leaving town to ask nature to divide into groups, and to be suspicious of but it is alsoa humanfact. ings ofthe age of mzﬂs
Someone who is staying to look after their bejohgings while they and feel superior to those outside of one’s own par- What should it all . . communications, so
are gone. If that is not possible Beard said the best bet is a locked “cum gl°“P' m°a“l°”S’the"?“mea"S Does anyone 5”” believe that ethnic Wars Should not

’ * It is fairly obvious to me, and to most people, that thatwe should not be par- be so surprising (per-

rental space or removal of valuable items such as stereo and game
equipment, jewelry, and televisions or VCRs from the premises.

Beard also said Lexington police have a vacation property
checklist. Students should call or stop by the police station to ﬁll
out a form that lists the name and contact number of the student, and
lists valuable possessions on the property. Police will also ask if the
mail will be picked up and if the lights will be on. Police then check
the property while the resident is gone.

If all this advice seems like good old common sense, that’s
because it is. Use it.

Quote of the Week:

“Tiny bubbles...In my wine...make me happy!”

~—VMI cadets hollering cadence to an old Don Ho song

Ellie lilting-htm lﬂlii

the war in Bosnia is being fought based on social
motivations, specifically ethnic motivations. Tradi-
tional groups, like Muslims, Serbs, and Croats, dis-
trustful of each other and anxious to ensure the sur-
vival of their respective peoples and traditions, have
taken up arms in a messy civil war. You might call it
nationalism; you might call it chauvinism; you might
call it fascism — all the same, you cannot deny its

essentially collective nature.

The tempting answer to the Bosnian question,
then, is this: abolish the accursed institution of preju-
dicial nationalism. Encourage all people to think of
themselves as members of one human family. Or
better yet, why should we even feel such a need to
submerge ourselves in a group identity; why should
we not face the world as individuals ready to carve out

ticularly surprised that
Bosnian Muslims and
Serbs like to kill each
other; it is nothing new
and will probably never
change. It means that all
people crave a social and
cultural identity, even for
the purposes of making
themselves feel superior,
and that this will prob-
ably never change. It

means that the pace at which traditions and cultures
are being uprooted by the siren songs of rationalism,
materialism, and individualism emitted by the West
should concern us. In the short run, these alluring

human nature can be perfected, or
even essentially changed? I f so,
they should put off all such illu-
sions: human nature must be
worked around, not tinkered with.
Prejudice may be a human imper-
fection, but it is also a human fact.

haps the fact that they
are notacomnmnplace
yet should be). Some-
times we are not Ill
“just the same”; some-
times we cannot “just
get along.” However
unappealing a realiza-
tion it may be, people
need walls between
them: if you tear th

down, look out! They

will be built up anew, taller and thicker than before,
and scarred with the suffering caused by good
intentions. The Age of Reaction has already begun;
Bosnia is a foretaste. Bon appetit..

Recycle now, before you have to '

I have decided to write this week
about one of my favorite topics, envi-
ronmentalism. The lack of it at W&L
has been bothering me for a while now,
especially since Lexington would seem

“Seinfeld.” Hate to break this to you,
but landfills don’t stop expanding be-
cause you are watching “Seinfeld.”
Right now, sitting at home in Lexing-
ton, it seems really unlikely that a

 

to bet it wouldn’t be as much fun if it
was surrounded by concrete and in the
middle of a city. Once again a healthy
environment comes into play. As for
all of you who are hunters, you can’t

reasons for being environmentally
aware hold true for both the U.S. and
Lexington, although, for examp e,
Detroit’s natural atmosphere can’t re-
ally be compared to Lexington’s. So

Exec t’ Ed't . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .

Manajlgjg Ejifgr _ _ . _ _ . I . _ _ _ . I _ _ ‘ . . ‘ I _ . . . I _ I . _ _ .  a perfect place to teach these values. landﬁll will open in your backyard. hunt deer in a cement parking lot. let’s look at environmental politics.

News Ediwrs . . _ . _ _ . ’ . _ . _ . _ _ _ _ _ I _ . . . . _ _ _ _ ' _ . j ' Michell brie Thomas Hespos First, let me explain what I mean by However, eventually you will prob- I hope all of you now feel inspired to There are some people who would like

Edimiaj page Educ, . _ _ . . _ _ . _ _ . _ _ _ , _ _ . _ ‘ . . . . _ . . . _ . _ . . . _ _ . . _’Ric,md weaver environmentalism. It doesn’t mean eat- ably move toabiggercity where waste go out_and recycle and admire nature. to believe that environmentalists are

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert "lg nuts and bet" dlsposal may Tllere '5 3 difficulty ln lecxcllnga e5Pe' pan of some liberal fringe that wlll

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard "35 and Camp‘ beaprobleln clally for those of "5 wlllloul 035- evemually fade away-
Features Editor ............................................ . . Ethan Krupp ing out in the They may Well. for those of you on campus, the WRONG. Environmentalism ha3a
Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ Melissa Sawyer, Hillary oison woods, or giving then decide university has finally decided to take a role in most national issues. Environ-

Photography Editor . . . . .._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Bethany Smith up driving or that your forward step and institute aluminum mental issues were a key concern in

Assistant Photography Editor - . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green shopping. l’Il be b a c k y a r d and perhaps newspaper recycling. This NAFTA. They will appear in discus-

A" D"°°‘°' - ~ - ~ - - - - ~ - - - » - - - - ~ - - - ~ - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - « - - - ~ - - - - - - -Phil Carrot! the first to admit looks like a is a first step, and I humbly suggest the sions about everything from the budget

Egllmlai g"”°::‘“l5_‘ ‘ - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ « - - --5°‘) Till)’ I love to shop suitableloca- university go a bit farther and set up a to defense. Even typically conserva-

itoria age ssrstant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt and I have a tjon I for a recycling center tive groups are be-

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey :1-uge :~c-cm]:“:l,l‘a; landﬁll]. [F S otn famPuS. Mitt-Hg ginning to realle

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .AlIen Flickinger, Ransom James .lon 0 Jun a glue easier 5 a eumversl .165 __-—_-—-— ‘ C W the importance .Of

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Sally Obermueller IS uselesf but , . . or 6.‘/eryone thatare Suffering envlmnmemal 15'

A V ~ ~ - . . that I can I throw away. So, I m not to get into the habit of recycling now from budget cuts . . sues. Recently,the
d ertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener _ . . . . . The unlversl has

Ci;-cuhtjon Manage, _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , _ . _ _ A . _ _ _ A . _ _ . _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _B1.ian Carpemer asking you to make drastic changes in than it will be for all of you to fight the can set up effec- ty NRA and Earth

your habits.

government 20 years from now. I real-

tive recycling

finally decided to take a

First! teamed upto

The R,-,,g_,,,,,, phi is pub,-Shed Fr-da d - th d d t h I t In fact,beingenvironmentally aware ize recycling isn’t exactly convenient programs, W&L - - save an old-growth
washingmn and Lee University uxirlwz: \l,l:rmignia CF:Edfggrior;;:[es;i:°_tZ’:a:):i can save your money so you can go in Lexington, but I will get into that surely can. -forward Step and lnstltute forest. 9
comes rim .1 f d _ , ’ d ’_ _ g ' g j 3 shopping, but only for reusable goods. later. . ' While W&L aluminum and perhaps I hope I have

P 3“ 3’ '°'“ 3 "°"'5"‘8 3“ 5“b50"Pll0n TCVCHUCS. The Wa5l“"S'°" “ml L“ Environmentalism can be turning off Believe it or not, there are some lagssadlybehind newspaper recyc-[l'ng_ opened up some

Publications Board elects the executive editorand business manager, but The Ring-rum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

the lights when you are not in a room,
not driving if you’re only going a few
blocks, recycling, and appreciating
what is around you.

Now to get down to why you should
turn off lights and save water. Well, for
those of you who pay for utilities, it
saves money. I can get you all sorts of
charts and graphs to prove thisto you —
just let me know. For those of you who
live on campus, I guess your motivation
will have to be in knowing it is the right
thing to do.

Now as for recycling, previous col-
umns have gone into why you shouldn ’t
recycle due to opportunity costs. Ifyou
go and recycle, you may end up missing

advantages to living in Lexington. One
of these is a great environment; you
don’t have to worry about smog or
noise pollution, unless you’re at a fra-
ternity party. However, even Lexing-
ton is not immune from environmental
threats. Last yearthe Maury River was
threatened and by extension, so was
Goshen Pass.

The Outing Club last year worked
on a letter-writing campaign to de-
clare the Maury exceptional water so
that during Spring Term, there would
be someplace to go after classes. Then
there is ZoIIman’s. Everyone com-
plains that you get too close to nature
when you party out there. I am willing

in recycling it is
fairly environ-
mental in other
ways. We use
china in the D-
Hall instead of
plastic or paper.
Fl u o r e s c e n t
lights, which last
longer are in
wide use, there is

white paper recycling all over campus,
and the university has not bulldozed
any ofthe trees out by the Pavilion to
build a new building.

Now let’s expand this view of recy-
cling to the U.S. Some of the same

This is a ﬁrst step, and I
humbly suggest the uni-
versity go a bit farther
and set up a recycling
center on campus.

minds and I’d like
to relate this col-
umn to last week’s
column by Mr.
C.F. Kucera, @-
fending the rights
of smokers in the
Co-op. On the sur-
face this would
seem to have noth-
ing to do with en-
vironmentalism; however, Cargl
Browner, head of the Environmental
Protection Agency recently announced
she will seek a ban on smoking in
all nonresidential buildings. IT’S
ABOUT TIME.

 

   

.6,
7 t

  

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1994

OPINION

Scenes from a coin laundromat

DREAM LAND
' Richard Weaver

Dirty laundry isabad thing, and this

, past Sunday I decided some sort of
E drastic action would be necessary to
M fix that bad thing.

QAt the same time I realized the next
logical stop for the Dream Land World
Tour would be the Lexington Coin
Laundry on Henry and Randolph
Streets.

Accompanied by trusty Phi Art
Director Phil Carrott, I carried a
m§nth’s worth of laundry down the
street to the professionals at the Lex-
ington Coin Laundry. Professional coin
rip-offs, that is.

I have been trying to do my laundry
at the Lexington Coin Laundry for the
past year. I usually run out of quarters
b ore I am through, so my clothes
don’t usually get that clean, so my
clothes don’t smell that great, so don’t
get near me if you know what’s good
for you.

But this is not the reason I frequent
the Lexington Coin Laundry. Being a
writer of imminent success and also
inﬁiedibie humility, I visit this estab-
lishment for its rich mosaic of people

' striving to ﬁnd electric-heat peace in a

cold world of frigid strife, or some-
thing like that. Also, they have the best
sign I have seen in Lexington: “Large
Capacity Warsher: $2.” That’s right,
“vﬂtrsher,” not “washer.”

Recently I was in the Lexington
Coin Laundry with my friend Melissa
when we spotted a rather large woman
doing her laundry. “Jane,” still wear-
ing her work uniform, had a can of Old

Milwaukee in one hand and a cigarette
in the other. Without warning, “Jane”
walked up to us and announced we
should never have foot surgery, be’-
cause it never heals. She then showed
us her unhealed foot. “Jane” was not
wearing shoes.

Right then and there Melissa and I
drafted a law saying A) one may not go
barefoot in a ‘
laundromat, es-
pecially if they
have nasty foot
wounds. This
law hasonly one
clause.

On this par-
ticulartriptothe
Lexington Coin
Laundry Phil
and I metavery
nice woman
named Joyce.
Joyce was using
10 washing ma-
chines at once.
When I asked
her if she liked

 

(Joyce) if she had ever seen other pets
at the laundromat, and she said that
once a student had brought his pet 3-
foot long boa constrictor. You have to
wonder if the snake laid any little boa
eggs while he was in the laundromat.
Keep those shoes on! Getting back to
the dog:

“This is Chance’s first time here,
' because if] left
him at home he
would be
lonely,” Joyce
said.

After chat-
ting with Joyce.
I met her friend-
i n - l a u n d r y ,
Ellen. Ellen was
working on five
loads of laun-
dry,butsaid she
had ‘used up to
12 machines at
once. Ellen of-
fers Washing-
ton and Lee stu-
dents a laundry

the Lexington tip: separate
Coin Laundry colors before
better than the washing.

Wash-O-Matic Ellen says
laundromat near she once saw a

Beyond Video, «
Joyce gave me the first of many anti-
Wash-O-Matic epithets I heard that
afternoon.

“l’ve only been there once, but the
machines cost more and they don’t do
a good job,” Joyce said. ‘‘I’m never
going back.” «~

On this particular trip to the Lexing-
ton Coin Laundry Joyce was accompa-
nied by her dog, Chance. I asked her

W & L male
wash an entire load ofunsorted clothes,
and when he saw the aftermath, he took
all his clothes and threw them directly
into the trash.

Ellen also did not have kind words
for Wash-O-Matic.

“They rip you off over there with
small machines and bad dryers,” Ellen
said. “I’ve only been once.”

Both Ellen and Joyce denied ever

seeing anybody taking “dryer rides” at
the Lexington Coin Laundry.

After I ﬁnished talking to Ellen, I
noticed a man who was kind of hunched
over and just staring into space with a
deranged look on his face. I thought he
might be a postal worker, so I went
over and talked to him.

“Are you Tom Hespos?” I asked.
Just kidding! I really asked him:

“What do you think about the Lex-
ington Coin Laundry?”

“It really sucks,” Gary said.

Gary was NOT happy at all with the
women whowere using many machines
at once. He’s been using the Lexington
Coin Laundry for several months now
and is just about fed up with people
who leave their clothes in the washers,
people who hog the dryers, park in the
parking lot, vote Republican, eat a lot
of fiber, etc.

“There ought toibe a law,” Gary
said. Then he wiped his nose.

When I asked Gary if he had tried
going to Wash-O-Matic, he snorted.

“I went there once and it, well, it
smelled,” he said.

I think it’s obvious that all ofthis is
leading up to a rumble between the
patrons of Wash-O-Matic and the Lex-
ington Coin Laundry. Instead of the
“Bloods” and the “Crips,” this will be
a fight between the “Slow Dryers” and
the “Broken Detergent Machines.” And
the prize will be the title of Biggest
Dirtbag Hangout in Lexington. W&L
students will be invited to watch the
action.

At the end ofthe afternoon Phil and
I left our friends at the Lexington Coin
Laundry. We’ll be back there in a few
weeks, as you probably will. Say hello
to Chance when you’re there.

TV offers good escape from work

MY VIEW

Brad Philipson, ’97

Sunday afternoons at W&L seem to be purgatory
between the grueling classes and even more grueling
wgekend parties. I, personally, refuse to leave my bed
between noon and 2:30 p.m. But, in between this
period of short-term hibernation and dinner time is a

three hour void unaccounted for.

I have developed ﬁlling these hours into an art
form. Some call me a lazy couch potato, but there is
more involved in my Sunday activity than that. There
is’ deep mind-exhausting, existential, Zen, mioggi-
istic, mental state which must be properly reached
before allowing oneself to sit mindlessly in front of
three hours of drivel on a small black box with a 13-

inch screen.

Zen thing.

a substittﬁﬁ

Well, most of it is drivel. Bud Light commercials
make an enlightening statement on the veiled genius
of our generation as we outsmart fifty—something,
arrogant, menial servants who have rationalized them-
selves into thinking they are in positions of power
(“YES, I am!”). But I digress — let’s get back to that

The first step along the path to total consciousness
does not involve the Dalai Lama and a legally retarded
greens keeper; it involves a comfortable seat. After
carefully positioning yourself within reach of the
remote, you must first ﬁnd the most brainless thing on
the air—‘-“CHiP’s” works best, but you can improvise

Watch it for at least 10 minutes and let all thoughts
of doing any work before 7 p.m. drift out of you. Next,
you must learn to be the remote. Hold it out of position
of the buttons. Above all, do not relinquish control. If
it falls into evil hands there is no measuring what
could happen: civil war could break out, lives could be
lost, empires could crumble, Erik Estrada could get

another TV show! .

I think ljust soiled myself. Anyway, after you
have bonded with the remote and are wearing clean
underwear, it is time to chose the proper subject for
the afternoon’s viewing. Football games usually
work, but the season over, mediocre late ’80s mov-

ies about high schoolers will work. The key here is

lack of superficial mental strain. Let your mind
withdraw into itself.

While your eyes are focused on large sweaty
men beating each other up for large sums ofmolney,
your subconscience can travel the globe, reaching
depths of introspection never before reached by

anyoineoutside of a poverty-stricken monk in dis-

LETTERS  

carded woman’s clothing mindlessly roaming the
streets of Istanbul in search of pocket change and a
small French poodle named Mikie.
But enough about my family. When you are
‘done, you will probably not remember what hap-
pened, but, if you are lucky, you will feel a sense of
inner peace.

Speaker

Patricia Russell McCloud, pro-
fessional orator and attorney, will
be the Black History Month key-
note speaker on February 22, 1994
at 8:00 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Recep-
tion in Chavis House will follow.

Writing

The Writing Center is open to
help students with papers and other
writing projects Sundays through
Thursdays from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m.
in Payne 2B. Most faculty mem-
bers encourage their students to
bring drafts to the Center for help
with revisions before turning the
paper in for a grade.

Manager

Needed ASAP: Manager for the
1994 Women’s Lacrosse Team. If
interested, please contact Jan
Hathorn at ext. 8668 or Sue Behme
at ext. 8679.

Alumni

Applications from members of
the class of 1994 who wish to be
considered for the Alumni Staff
Association position for the 1994-
95 academic-year are due by Mon-
day, February 28. Graduating se-
niors should submit a letter of ap-
plication and resume to Alumni Sec-
retary Jim Farrar at ‘the Alumni
House. The Staff Associate posi-
tion beoomes availableluly 1,1994.
Personal interviews will be sched-
uled upon receipt of application.

 

PAGE 7

Pictures

Seniors: You can still sign up for
senior pictures for The Calyx! Sign
up sheets are in front of Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center. Any questions? Call The
Calyx ofﬁce at 464-4046.

Ariel

The Ariel literary magazine is
now accepting submissions for the
1994 issue. Literary submissions
may be dropped off in envelopes in
Payne Hall, the Leyburn Library,
and the University Center. Any vi-
sual art submissions should be left
forTemple Cone, c/o Carol Calkins
in the University Center. Deadline
for submissions is March 11.

Kathekon

Applications for Kathekon will
be available in front of Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center beginning Monday, Feb. 7.
All rising juniors and seniors are
encouraged to submit an applica-
tion and sign up for an interview.
Deadline for turning in applications
is March 1. Interviews will be held
March 8-10. For more information,
pick up a packet in the University
Center.

Phi

The Phi will next publish on
February 25, 1994.

Correction

The article, “SVCW get ﬁnancial help,” in the February 5, 1994 issue
of The Ring-tum Phi was incorrectly attributed. The article was written by
E. Lee Daugherty. The Phi regrets the error.

Rockbridge Library staff
thanks APO volunteers

To the editor:

The staff of the Rockbridge Re-
gional Library would like to thank the
Alpha Phi Omega Fraternity for com-
ing in and shelf reading and straighten-
ing our shelves. They have been a big
help to us.

If any other group would like to
come and help us out, we would appre-
ciate it.

Lynda D. Gordon
Assistant Head of Circulation
Rockbridge Regional Library

Kathekon positions will open soon for rising juniors, seniors

To the editor:

‘Once again, Kathekon will be hold-
ing interviews to ﬁll the fourteen spots
vacated by this year’s seniors.

We will be selecting approximately

six rising seniors and eight risingjun- ~

iors. For anyone who might not be
familiar with Kathekon and what we

I d our Statement of Purpose reads as

fo ows.

The term KATHEKON comes from
the Greek phrase, “to kathekon,” which
loosely translated means that we “have
an obligation to serve and to be mind-
ful of our duty; an obligation to do that

O

which is meet and proper.” It is a word
that seems to represent General Lee’s
sense of duty. .

Founded in 1984, Kathekon is a cre-
ation of the Alumni Ofﬁce and the
Alumni Board of Directors and has a
two-fold purpose: 1) to recognize un-
dergraduates and law students as
alumni-in-residence and therefore fa-
miliarize and involve them with the
Alumni Association and its work on
behalf of the university, and 2) to work
as a civic leadership group on campus,
using its energy and inﬂuence to affect
the Washington and Lee community

positively and constructively.

From its inception Kathekon has
been involved in numerous campus
events of a public relations nature.
While remaining flexible and open to
special projects that may be appropri-
ate forthe group to undertake, Kathekon
has developed the following list of
annual projects and/or events that \it
sponsors of in which it participates:

1) Kathekon hosts the Freshmen
Orientation Barbeque sponsored by the
Alumni Association.

2) Kathekon hosts a New Faculty
Cocktail Party each Fall at the

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

TALKBACK

 

Alumni House.

3) Kathekon sponsors the Annual
Homecoming Parade.

4) Kathekon plays an integral sup-
port role in Homecoming and the Five-
Star Generals program.

_ 5) Kathekon members write per-
sonal letters of congratulations to all
students admitted under the early deci-
sion program.

6) Kathekon plays an integral sup-
port role in the Spring Alumni Week-
end.

7) Kathekon members provide ush-
ers and other support for Parent’s Week-

' and

end and Board of Trustees meetings.

l(athekon’s Statement of Purpose
gives a good general overview of what
we do as a group, but we have also been
looking to expand the list of annual
projects and events.

Kathekon posts signs and posters in
an attempt to keep the speaking tradi-
tion alive. We are hosting a senior class
cocktail party later in March. We will
be looking into helping to build the
new playground at Brewbaker Field,
the junior members are
planning a cookout for the junior
class Spring Term.

We are looking for students who
feel they can contribute to Kathekon,
and we strongly encourage all who are
interested to apply. Applications can
be picked up outside of Carol Calkins’
ofﬁce in the University Center, and a
sign-up sheet for interview times is
also located outside Carol Calkins’ of-
fice. Applications must be returned to
the box outside of Carol Calkins ofﬁce
by March 1, and interviews will be held
on March 8-10.

Ashby R. Hackney
President of Kathekon

. What is your key to a perfect Fancy Dress Weekend?

Colleen Dunlevy, ’96, Columbus,
Ohio — “I haven’t had one yet, so I

don’t know.”

Q

David Silvester, ’95, Milwaukee,

Wis. — “Not getting arrested.”

Christina Wheeler, ’94, Austin, Texas, and Lollie Sheehan, ’94, Savannah,

Ga.—“After three Fancy Dresses, finding a date you can tolerate for

four days.”

 

Cole Costanzo, ’96, Atlanta, Ga. —

“A date.”

Jake Kimball, ’95, Palm Springs,
Calif. — “If the SAB ever picked a
decent band.”

 

 

MSA honors  
black history

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Proclaiming a goal of “empowerment,” the
Washington and Lee Minority Students Asso-
ciation began Black History Month activities
last week.

With a black-directed movie night Feb. 4
and a Black History night at the Letitia Pate
Evans Dining Hall Feb. 9, MSA president
Ayanna Brady kicked off a month she hoped
would help bring the whole community to-
gether.

“l’ve heard a lot from other students [at
W&L] that black students on campus hold
themselves separate from the rest of the student
body,” Brady said. “MSA is open to everyone
who wants to participate.”

Activities planned for the rest of the month
include the keynote speaker, attorney Patricia
Russell-McCloud, who will present a lecture in
Lee Chapel Feb. 22 and a Black History Month
party for the children in Lexington, as well as
another black movie night Feb. 25.

Brady emphasized the fact that the activities
were open to both the entire campus and the
extended Lexington community.

“The MSA goal is empowerment,” she said.
“We want to empower both Lexington and the
W&L community with understanding and di-
versity.”

The MSA will join the VMI minority asso-
ciation, Promaji, for a reception supporting the
military school’s first-ever organized Black
History Month activity, a parade on the VMI
campus. .

Brady said that many W&L students who
are not in MSA were worried about whether or
not they were welcome at Black History Month
activities.

“We want [everyone] to get involved,” Brady
said. “MSA is open to everyone who wants to
participate. We would love to have the support
and help of anyone who wants to participate.”

“V
The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1994

 
 

Joint judicial board .
lies dormant this year

By -HILLARY OLSON
Phi Staff Writer

The Judicial Board set up last academic year
by Student Conduct Committee President
Rajeev K. “Reggie” Aggarwal to investigate
incidents between Virginia Military Institute
cadets and Washington and Lee students has
been surprisingly inactive.

The organization has conducted no joint
investigations this year, as no student has turned
in any requests, said Aggarwal.

Aggarwal said he instituted the system at the
beginning of last year when three fights broke
out between cadets and W&L students in a
short period of time.

Aggarwal noticed that the Student Conduct
Committee, when hearing its cases, consis-
tently heard only one side of the story. It was
hard to reach a fair decision with only one

viewpoint. 6
Therefore, he suggested to the VMI J udical
Board that they work together on cases involv-
ing both schools.
The ad-hoc joint Judicial Board would only

be in session when called upon, said Aggarwal. _

W&L investigators could question VMI cadets
and vice—versa about the speciﬁc incident;

“The whole idea was just to set up a way to
hear both sides of the story,” Aggarwal said.

Aggarwal said the incident last fall concern-
ing cadets and students at the Phi Delta Theta
fraternity house “was not even brought to my
attention until a couple days later.”

The case went directly to Colonel Michael
Bissell, commandant of cadets, and was not
handled by cadets.

The joint committee was not notiﬁed as a
result, Aggarwal said.

“The board could_still be used in the future
if incidents are called to our attention,” he said.

Slander suit
continues

Ia» WHEELER, from page 1

ment; Vicky Saunders, administrative sec-
retary of career development and place-
ment; Anne Shroer-Lamont, associate
dean of students; and President John Wil-
son have all been sent subpoenas.

These officials were required to sub-

to FIJI, from page 1

Bishop. “We talked to each other about our
findings and wrote separate appeals.”

Griffin was away on business and could not
be contacted before press time. Griffin is a
Delta Tau Delta alumni and graduated from
W&L with Bishop in 1968.

FIJI President Ralph “Moke” Wolfe would
not comment on the contents of either appeal.

“We don’t want to do anything that will
sway President Wilson one way or the other,”
Wolfe said. “The way he handles it is up to his
discretion.”

Wolfe said he does not know how long
Wilson will take to return FIJI ’s appeal to SAC.
He will review FlJI’s appeal when he returns

from Florida where he is working on the capital '

campaign.

Wilson took over a month to return Delta
Tau Delta’s appeal of its five-year suspension
in 1992 to SAC.

FIJI pledges Neil Kelleter and Griffin said
although they could pledge elsewhere, they
have no intention of doing so. They also said
they think FIJI was treated unfairly by SAC.

“There’s no question that the facts of the
case were manipulated, there was false infor-

Photo By Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi
FIJI may not be able to have any fraternity events in their house until 1995.

FIJI makes two appeals

mation involved,” Griffin said. “One incident,
by the way, the University has defined hazing,
can be construed as hazing but there was never
any physical danger or where‘ we could harm
ourselves physically or emotionally or mess up
our grades.”

Kelleter said he was not hazed by FIJI.

“I feel as a person, a competent adult college
student, I have the capacity to determine whether
I did something against my will,” Kelleter said.
“Everyone of us had the same choice. I can’t
say I was forced because I chose to do it.”

“Ifthe University is telling me that I wasn’t
competent enough to make decisions for my-
self, then I can’t see how they can want me in
this University.”

Both freshmen said they thought the SAC
punishment could only hurt the freshmen.

“Ifthis system is supposed to protect us then
why are they destroying us?” asked Kelleter.
“We’re not going to be a fraternity until our
junior year ifthis thing sticks. We can’t inititate
until junior year. That’s not what we set out
for.”

Griffin said his father wrote the appeal be-
cause he felt the same way.

“He wrote on behalf of the pledges because
we were being taken advantage of and no one
listened to what we had to say,” he said.

mit documents by Jan. 28.

Heatley’s lawyers have sent subpoe-
nas to professors John and Gwen
Handelman. John Handelman gave his
deposition Jan. 12 and Gwen’s deposition
was subpoenaed Jan. 31. None of these
documents have been added to the public
record.

John and Gwen Handelman have both
retained W&L law professors as counsel
for their depositions.

Joan Shaughnessy, a member of the
New York bar since 1980, and James
Phemister, a member of the Ohio bar
since 1969, have both requested tempo-
rary admission to active membership in
the Virginia bar in order to represent the
two professors.

u-DUVALL, from page 1

UVa Medical Center. Accord-
ing to Lowe, this is normal.

“We think and we get the
impression that it’s not an un-
usual thing,” said Lowe.

The origin of Duvall’s in-
fection remains a mystery.
Duvallwasdiagnosed withthe
condition a day after visiting
the infirmary with ﬂu symp-

ingococcal infection have been
reported, at Washington and
Lee or at any of the schools

   

The Ring/tum Phi wishes everyone at sale and fun breal<

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination.
Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only.

Within walking distance from campus.
Call 463-3835.

 

Town-Country Cleaners
Quality Cleaning and Shirt Laundry
One—Day Service - Drive thru Window
Summit Square Shopping Center
190 Walker St. (Next to Beyond Video)

‘ 463-2261

I have to wear A TUX?
...No problems.’
University Cleaners

Has a wide selection of
Tuxedos for rent.

$45

toms. No other cases of men- _

 

FD Special

played by the W&Lbasketball
squad of which Duvall is a
member.

“Most ofthe time, it’s trans-
mitted through carriers who
don’t have the disease,” said
Horton.

Case to case transmission
ofthe disease, which is caused
by a bacteria in the blood, is
rare, and any new cases would
likely be the result ofa carrier,
and would not stem from
Duvall, said Horton. As ofyet,
no new cases have been re-
ported to the Student Health
Center. The UVa medical staff

Point of View

Restaurant

 

L

 

Duval1’s condition improves

also informed Lowe that the
disease is very aggressive and
quick moving.

“I’mconcerned,and we still
want people who show symp-
toms to come in and be evalu-
ated,” said Horton.

Horton also added that any-
one who shows symptoms over
the upcoming Washington
holiday should inform their
doctor of the increased risk of
meningococcal infection.

The Student Health Center
has put together a fact sheet on
the illness which is posted
around campus.

 

 

1994 Miss All-American
Teen D.C. Pageant-

Come and join the fun and
V excitement;
Teens between 14 and 19 years of
age. You may have the chance to
win: $5000 and scholarship
money, a 14K gold crown ring -
For more information call

1-800-887-7008

The

"Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing

$2 0]?‘ any pasta dinner with
student I.D.

 

Buildings and Grounds workers have been repainting the stairwells in Gianes for a
couple of weeks. The entire building will eventually be repainted.

Gaines gets paint job

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

 

Gaines B-wing residents
may discover some changes
when they move into their
rooms next year. ‘

Assistant Supervisor of
Building and Grounds
Randolph Hare said they are
currentlyvpaintingstairwellsin
B-wing. He said they are get-
ting a jump on renovations they
originally planned to start af-
ter graduation. He said the
stairwell B&G is currently
painting will be the last before
renovations.

Hare said the renovations

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
   

Photo By Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

are part of a three year plan to

- have a wing kept off-line each

year for refurbishment.

“We wanted to concentrate
on a specific area and get up to
our standards thatwe felt were
acceptable,” he said.

He said there was pressure
to finish in time for special
programs that are held from
the mid-June to the first of
August. He said there was
also pressure because some
students arrive early to train
for sports.

Hare said representatives
fromthe special programs
agreed to scale down the num-
ber of participants. He said
Building and Grounds would

work with the special pro-
grams’ schedules.

Hare said the renovations
are preventive measures to in-
sure the safety of the building.
He said they go through each
hallway and suite to thej§ex-
amine the carpets, plumbing,
and the heating/cooling sys—.
tems of each room.

“It gives us time to check
out the mechanical aspects of
that room,” he said.

He said the renovaﬁons
cover 25 percent to 3:’ percent
more square footage and will
be completed in the beginning
of the school year. He said
there are plans to repair the C-
wing next year.

0,

 
 

Final Ballroom Dance Class
*  before Fancy Dress-

with

Lounge

FoxiTrot, Waltz,
Wed. Feb 23

6p.m.—7or8

$5 per person
Come with or without a partner
(703) 344-2114

Frank Roupas
in Fairfax

  
  

  

    
  
 

Swing

   
  

p.m. .

   
  
 

 

Institute of Philosophy
Katholieke Universiteit Leuven

Founded 1425

Write:

Francis P. Crawley, Director
International Programs
Institute of Philosophy

I Katholieke Universiteit

Kardinal Mercierplein 2,
B-3000 Leuven, Belgium
Fax: 32-16-28 63 11 '

A world renowned center for international education in philosophy
offering complete bachelors, Masters, and Ph.D. programs. The Institute
of Philosophy not only teaches the history of philosophy, it is a part of
that history. Located only 25 kilometers from Brussels, the capital of

Europe, this is the center of European philosophy. The Institute of 9
Philosophy houses centers of excellence. in phenomology, psychoanalysis,

 

If

 
  

   
  

I.

 

Leuven
bus SN

 
 
  
    

Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn

philosophy of language, and ancient and medieval philosophy. Tuition
waivers allow students to enroll for a full academic year for only 17,200
Belgian francs (+/— $500). U.S. and Canadian Government Student Loans
available. Courses also available in other subjects to complement the
needs of the Junior Year Abroad Student.

463-7797 J

9

  

  

PAGE 9 ‘ ORTS . The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1994

     
      

   

           
  
  
  
   
  

  
 
 
 

   
   
  
    
   
   
   
   
    
   
    
      

  
  

 

   

 

             

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Standings as of 02/08/94
Mel1’S Basketball Women’s Basketball
Leading Scorers Leading Scorers
Player Pts P g P1 pt p
Cam Dyer 276 1&3 ViT)gTrr1ia Yoerg 1031 91.)?
Matt NeWt0n 169 8-9 Sandra Holmes 97 8.8
Derek Carter 3% 3-; Nicky Mayfield 78 7.1
rmucaonucas $125.‘: czﬁiiily 155 8.2 ,%:,::*;.'§:::‘;,:;::§“ 9: 2-2
Jon Coffman 146 7-7 Stacy Williams 77 5.5
T  Robert Miggins 141 7.4 Amy Veg; 25 5_2
 Mary Tankard 53 4.8
.  Leading Rebounders Leading Rebounders
. Player Reb Avg Player Rcb Av
Robert Miggirls 117 6-2 Sandra Holmes 109 6.8g
Derek Carter 96 5.3 Nicky Ma field 93 5.8
Cam Dyer 95 5-3 Mary Tan ard 86 5.4
Mark Connelly 92 4-8 Virginia Yoerg 82 5.5
0 Chris Ccfmzen 43 2.; Stacy Williams 50 3.6
J C f 4 2. '
GROUND FRESH .2::..§.::1:‘:. 3-   is 3;?
   Karen Stutzmann 42 3.0
MORE THAN 70% LEAN FRESH Amy Vogt 19 3-8
G  H N D “M” 5 LBS. PER Free-throw Standings Free-throw Standings
CUSTOMER Player Ft/Fta Av Player Ft/Fta Av
PLEASE Derek Carter 26/30 .86 Virginia Yoerg-V 43/64 .67
Jon Coffman 38/54 .704 Karen Stutzmann 20/32 .625
LB Robert Miggins 37/53 .698 Stacy Williarms 14/24 .583
0 0 o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Chris Couzen 41/59 .695 Sandra Holmes 25/43 .581
Mark Connelly 43/66 .652 Mar Tankard 13/28 .464
 Matt Newton 37/58 .638 Nickyy Mayfield 28/61 .459
   A M y LOW  ‘ V i V Lam Dyer 49/79 .620
  '; * FLORIDA 9 9
' STRAWBERRIESS. . . . we
CRISP 3/ 
CUCUMBERS ..... ..EA..
ROMA 8 9 Wrestling
9  TOMATOES ....... .15. Records
., - ,7 ; ._    is V  CALIFORNIA 4/Iloo W h. d Le
; 5 1 ' ~> » 7-  «A , . . NAVEI. oltANGEs...cA. Prayer Record wt. “% “‘g‘°" 3“ °
1- 4  -, A ~  A 4 - eam Records
.\ _ ;_  ,\  \.. I. .  Adam Branson 11-6 118, 126 d d f 02 09 94
“ “  \ -.\:\ I ;.  Anthony Raﬂa 4-4 126 (up ate or / / )
4‘ A \ '4 ea  Eric Shirley 12-6 134, 126 , . . _
‘  \ N _  g ’ Rob de Clerk 2-10 134 §AV§I§‘3§‘§jViSnjVr;‘3l‘:g““8 Z3
3 - . I - E  ' / édamHWllhlams §'g  Wrestling 4-4
._    H ary anse - , _
kg _  . I \ y ,  gv’ Steve Tye 8_11 150 Women s Basketball 8 9
g ' M -g 5. \ J ,- / Owen Smith 5_11 158 Men s Basketball 8-12
   -    19.9.. 12;  
‘lo LB. Cole Van Nice 16-8 190
A 1 . ~ Low PRICES   GREAT VALUE   
DUNCAN HINES DIET PEPSI OR
, CAKE MIX PEPSI
13-25 2 LTR.
l'8.5 OZ.
9   WEEKLY SPECIAL wEEKLYsPEcIA1         . 3 0         1 A  
PE"E'L"E‘3'i’<'5i'li’A‘r‘ti'Es W"'i7i‘§"‘"§3”§"E?“‘”                  
Photo by Amy Brown, special to The Fling-tum Phi
 Junior Grant Cowell and three competitors at the Virginia Tech invitational last month put
all thoughts out of their minds to concentrate on winning the 800-meter run.
'21‘.-2%..‘-ii

WRAPPED

EHARRIS .1EE1En...Low PRICES ALL DAY,   EVERY DAY =e<cw-Err ( jmemau @140

{EXTRA INCOME NOW!

ENVELOPE srurrmc -- seoo - saoo every wee

--..-..-..-----."s
v

     EH“ Dawns: sASE|r::arnationuI inc . .

mun CHOCOLATE I9 Elllggws ICE 79.; Em-.N.:,,...,:;.,.2.$o 

M"-K   ' D . . 1 Mrs. Doubtfire
ubltcatlons Board

SELECTED VARIETIES REG. on LOW SALT SLICED Interviews R D, W_”?‘a”"’;9 _
RAGU spAG|-|E'ﬂ| 2/ 00 SM“-|.mE|_p  Th R_ for W o m .R.;$:G_1fa::y Field
 2Z5'3°-5 02-  lgK%?' e  I ‘ Sat. & 9:30 p.m.

IN THE DELI-BAKERY-SLICED TO ORDER ‘ The R 1'48-mm Phi A A190 Sf-Ming Friday 3

 

' SELECTED VARIETIES B ' — A
sA|.oN sE|.Ec1'|vEs 196 Hi ll.s.D.A. CHOICE 99 Riiiﬁfiﬁaéiéfi The ..loy Luck Club Rudy
H c     LB. Letters Defmately one for the If you love football,

    
 

I 4 A M H I Due February 25, 1994 Iadgaseténgee. you'll Igzgghgzmovie.
o T o I 3 1 ‘C0 Cam‘! C3”<in$» Daily 9:40 pm. Daily 7:00 p.m.
Pﬂces Effecﬂve rough Febfuary '5, I  university center Sat. & Sun. 3:45 & 9:40 p.m. Sat. & Sun. 1:00 & 7.-oo p.m.

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesda ,Februciry 9 Through Tuesday Februo TS, 1994 In Lexington T SW95 Inte rviews Marc '1 7,  
Onl .We Reserve The Ri hi To (imil Quantities. None Sold To 0eolers.r(Ne Glodl 'Acce l Federal 100d Stamps. 2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista

  

 
  

Last Week:

WBB—Hollins 66, W&L 62
MBB—Lynchburg 62, W&L 57
Wrest—Sixth at Apprentice Invit.
Swim—W&L women 142, Mary B. 78

PAGE 10

S

Ellie iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

 

This Week:

MBB—at Roanoke 02/12
WBB—Ho11ins, 02/13
Wrest—at Va. State Tourney 02/ 13
Swim——at Radford 02/12

 

  

FEBRUARY 11, 19 °

     



BY SARAH GILBERT “

 

 

I It is that time again...._
_ Those: heading‘ away-
from theirusual routine on‘. 
A , vacation breaks have-a'un~ 1
. canny habit ofalso depart-
ing from their accustdmedi - : ..
, ha_bits,»especiaIly those fit: ‘
‘ ness.ones.~ ‘ -  -,
The frame of, mind 
I seems tobe, if youdo not
have to go to; class, you V
.. xtakeabreakfrom conceiv-.=:.
ably stressing activities: ,
: Nutrition‘,-exercise,eyery- 5
=- thing goes to the .wind-*as_' -
. “the occasional student con-"
centrates o_n“relaxing;”Q _.
' But we must keep one-
;  thing in mind: FD. Th2\t‘s , 1.
.;i = right. iadi;<;s_;xnagents,o’njIy‘r ~
’ ne shortT»'_ve¢'k.lfi,v.e_ briefs‘ .
H ays,;afterwel.rettirn from, 
 .out...teve_ls':in cw Orleans :=
 got. the Bahamas for some _ 3 :
,= 'unspeci_fied'otherlocation, '
1the~i>aﬁi¢Wi4ékﬂetid‘W‘ill.be. .
”2upon‘us'. .We1Willj_a'l,l need}
_ ~-to be.in,our7best physicaljfi _
 .anu acstliet .S.hap€;’noi to 
V mention Vbeinge»inn-7su’fﬁyf..;
5 . .ci¢n.t1y-caimswe Of .n%iinfd:. 
V  ' ._So what can :yo1.x*do,to‘i
, .Sfa'y:.inv shape this.weeI<?. .
After all, it is too cold in
[New 5Y“ork1too, dangerous»
gill New, rOrle.a,ns;’too_
‘cramped on..the boat/too
‘ much) trouble torun. , , 
. That: mar.1r§m’ind.fa11
-5 of you .potenti_al ‘_s1ackers,.; 
'isfn"ot,a_ good excuse! Let

 _ me, tell you, why in three ‘

edoes Secsit-ups=-:9‘.
Y “Y S%!Y3{"‘StirezI‘. 

 

 Even ifjthe juice is ’
I .-mixedwith somethingcon- 5
, lsiderablyless healthy, it is
still juice.»l would‘:rather ;
_you:drink a Bloody jlvlary
.  and ascrewdnverthan two ,
 ‘,lite.beers.r It is "worth it. ,
. ,3) Takinglthe stairs V
, ‘ ~Simply‘changing-your
 mode of transportation can 3
 seriously" affect your ﬁt-
F ness lev‘el.’I_ no not you jog
to the beach or the French
, Quarter ‘while the rest of. .
‘: your friends takea taxi, ’
 but..t'a1dngthe stairstothati '
,  third-flooridance club will A
 neverhurt. ... ~» 
2. f ,Cliinbing‘ stairs is an
5 intensive.‘ and all-around
. xwork~out if you use your
1 : arrns‘; It can burn off that-
 ‘beignetl and work on those '
 all-imponant buttocks.  '
 :. Only remember that a
. vacation fronfilschooldoes _
 otinean ayacation fromr '
 In  Ofyéurbodi-”“
i In/I_n fact, thatframe of mind s
” ‘ could seﬁously jeopardize

 

 

Men’s b-ball may miss tourney

  

~ yourpost-break happiness.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Hopes of post-season play for the men’s basketball team were
dealt a severe blow Wednesday night as the team suffered a 62-57
home defeat to Lynchburg College. The loss drops the Generals to
ninth place in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

The Generals and Lynchburg entered the contest in a tie for the
eighth and final position for the ODAC Tournament. With four
games remaining, all on the road, W&L finds itself behind the
competition. Lynchburg (9-11, 6-8 ODAC) might move up as high

as sixth.

The Generals record falls to 5-9 in the conference and 8-12
overall. Should they fail to catch at least one team ahead of them in
the standings, the Generals will be kept out of post-season play for the

third consecutive season.

Chances for a season sweep of the Hornets for the third year in a
row looked bright as the Generals raced out to a 13-3 lead at the
Warner Center. Junior Cam Dyer (13 points) and sophomore Derek
Caner, who made his third start of the season, each scored four early
points to contribute to the 10-point advantage.

Lynchburg, though, was looking to avenge losses in five straight
games to W&L, games in which they had held late leads. The Hornets
took a brief 16-15 lead courtesy of eight points from freshman Otis

    

Tucker. Tucker (11 points) entered the game as the Hornets leading

scorer with an 18.4 points-per-game average.
The lead was indeed short-lived. The Generals scored seven

straight, capped off by a Carter three-pointer from the top of the key.

With 7:10 left in the half, W&L led the game 23-16. Apparently
someone forgot to tell the Generals there was time left in the half. As
Billy Joel said, “Say Go0d—bye to Hollywood.”

An Ahmad Smalls three-pointer sparked a 15-0 run by the Hornets

Photo by Betsy Green, The Fling-tum Phi
The Generals lost this game to Lynchburg, 62-57.

that eventually became a 20-2 run to close the half. Suddenly,
Lynchburg led 36-25 after 20 minutes of play. The two General points
during that stretch came on two Dyer free throws.

There was still reason to be optimistic, as the Generals have proven
to be a strong second-half team all season. Also, the team had come
from behind in each of its five consecutive wins over Lynchburg.

Junior Mark Connelly had the ﬁnal home game crowd of 225
thinking ofa comeback after draining two quick turn-aroundjumpers
early in the second half. However, Tucker and Brian Young hit
consecutive three-pointers to open up a 15-point lead. The Generals
had pulled within 10 when Lynchburg sophomore Mike Preston

connected on a wide-open three to give the Hornets a 53-39 lead with
less than 10 minutes remaining. That’s when Caner took over the ‘
ame.
g The 6’5” swing-man scored six straight points in the paint as part
of an 11-0 General run. A Connelly short jumper pulled W&L within
three with 4:27 to play. Unfortunately the Generals could get no
closer than three points and Lynchburg put it away for good on an
Anthony Cummings lay-up for a 60-52 edge with 25 seconds left.
Although freshman Chris Couzen (eight points) drilled a three-
pointer at the buzzer, the game’s exclamation point was supplied by
a Cummings dunk with two seconds to go.
With the victory, the two teams split theirseason series for the first .
time since 1985-86. Lynchburg still trails W&L in the all-time series 9
56-19. Oddly, the Hornets own an 8-4 road record this season. ‘
Cummings led the Hornets with 17 points and nine rebounds. The
Generals had held Cummings to 10 points in their ﬁrst meeting this
year, a 70-67 W&L win, after averaging 32 in the two contests vegsus
the Generals last season.
Carter ﬁnished with a game-high 18 points, to go with eight
rebounds. In his ﬁnal home game, senior point-guard Matt Newton
was shut-down by the Hornets, scoring just one basket while dishing
three assists. Newton had scored 14 in last Saturday’s 90-74 win over
Eastern Mennonite. Classmate and co-captain Robert Miggins scored ’
just four points, but grabbed a team-high nine boards and had five
steals. Miggins is W&L’s third all-time shot-blocker and is on pace
to be the first General in 24 years to lead the team in rebounds three
consecutive seasons.
To qualify for a tournament spot, the Generals need to win at least
two of their remaining four games. Saturday, the team travels down
[-81 to Roanoke to take on the ODAC leading Maroons (13-1
ODAC). They then close out the regular season campaign ith
games at Virginia Wesleyan, Eastern Mennonite, and Rando ph-
Macon.

The Washington and Lee women’s track team has competed in three indoor
meets thus far this year, and has already set several new indoor records. Fresh-
man Hollis Leddy, right, set a new 400-meter run record with a 62.7. Records were
also set by sophomore Amy Mears, 11 :16 in the 3000-meter run; and the 4x200
team of Loddy, senior Wendy Neel, junior Sarah Gilbert and freshman Megan
Hovda set an indoor record of 1:57.8.

Photo by Amy Brown, special to The Fling-tum Phi

Record-setters hit the track

    
 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

Now that the National Foot-
ball League season is over, the
only sports left runningarebas-
ketball and hockey.

Being from North Carolina,
where hockey is just not ex-
actly the most talked about
sport, college basketball rules
the house.

What happened to UCLA?
The Bruins were number one in
the country for the grand span
of a week before dropping a
game to Jason Kidd (orthe Uni-
versity of California Golden
Bears for the uninitiated).
Within another week, the once-
mighty had fallen to Notre
Dame.

How many times does the
number-one team in the coun-
try go into a game a substantial
underdog? It happened last
week in the Duke vs. North
Carolina game. Duke, ranked
numberone,wentintothe Dean
E. Smith Center as the under-
dog to the number two ranked
Tarheels.

The National Basketball As-
sociation has almost reached
the All-Star game. The game
will feature Shaquille O’Neal
starting ahead of Patrick Ewing
at the center position for the
Eastern Conference

ln another area, having All-
Star players does not always

guarantee a winning team. Just
ask the New Jersey Nets, who,
despite guard Kenny Anderson
and forward Derrick Coleman,
have hovered around the .500
mark all year.

Speaking of All-Star games,
the American Football Confer-
ence won the Pro-Bowl.

At least we now understand
the logic behind losing the Super
Bowl. The AFC is just saving
their best performance for the
Pro-Bowl, when it really means
something.

Once again back to basket-
ball,the Chicago Bulls hayebeen
surprising everyone by proving
that they can play without God.
The Bulls now stand in the hip

pockets of the division leading

Atlanta Hawks. Now led by Scot-
tie Pippen and Horace Grant, the
Bulls have been playing excep-
tional basketball, especially at
home.

Just in case no one has been
paying attention, major league
baseball will be beginning soon.
The Atlanta Braves (yes, l’m
starting early) will be in the same
division asthe team that knocked
them out of the playoffs, the
Philadelphia Phillies. With the
New York Mets and the Colo-
rado Rockies and San Diego Pa-
dres in the National League, the
World Series is all over.

I’m going out on a limb now
and predicting the Mets to tri-
umph overthe Milwaukee Brew-
ers in a hotly-contested seven-
game series.

Parting Shots-

Tennis has continued to be
somewhat interesting lately
(which is better than its usual
state of just plain boring). Steffi
Graf defeated Martina
Navratilova in a ﬁnals match re-
cently. One wonders if Grafwill
make it through an entire year
without losing (come back
Monicall).

Seles has now dropped out of
the computer rankings used to

seed tournaments.

When she returns, she will
most likely be co-seeded at
numer one with Steffi Graf.
Maybe we will have some more
interesting tournaments from
now on.

The Tar Heels had better not
enjoy their number-one ranking
(their third one this year) for too
long.

The hot seat has been a curse
for every team to visit it this

Baseball season approaches again

season. No team has held the
ranking for more than two
weeks.

In a unprecedented deci-
sion, the NBA has decided to
award the championship this
year to the Charlotte Hornets
for being from North Caro-
lina. The move was made in
an effort to cut down the
length of the season so as not
to interfere with the televis-
ing of baseball games.

   
  
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
    
   
 
    
   
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
   
    

A oCKSHoRTs

Swlmmmg

The Washington and Lee
swim teams continued their suc-
cess last week. The two squads,
with records of 7-4 (women) and
4-3 (men) enjoyed solid wgks.

The W&L women suffered a
setback against Mary Washing-
ton on Saturday, losing 117-75."
In the loss, the Generals set a
season best time in the 400-med-
ley relay and got a strong perfor-
mance from freshman Laur
Marshall. ’

Jan. 8, the Generals pasted the
Mary Baldwin team in a 142-78
rout to improve their record to 7-
4 on the year. The Generals won
every race. The win extende
the W&L Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference winning sﬁea v
to 19 consecutive meets.

Nationally, the Generals have
placed a number of swimmers in
the upper echelon of nationa
times. Rebekah Prince is ranke
10th in the 200-back, 18th in th
200-IM, 20th in the 100 baci an a
26th in the 1000 free. Stac
Bcrtelli is ranked 14th in the 20
fly, 34th in the 100-ﬂy, and 46t
in the 1000 free. Brandi
Henderson is ranked 39th in the
1000 free, and Jen Miller i
ranked 50th in the 100 free;

On the men’s side, the Gener-
als have been equally successful.
In a meet labeled previously by
coach Paige Remillard as a toug
contest, the W&Lsquad defeate
Mary Washington by the scor
of 124-81. David Stillma an
Nathan Hottle each got two win
while Tony Diederich, Crai
Sears, and Frank Braden eac
contributed one win.

The men also are amply rep
resented in the list of Nationa
CollegeiateAthleticAssoci io
Division lll top times. Na ha
Hottlehasthe mostimposingcre
dentials with a ninth place rank
ing in the 200 breast, a 19th in th
400-IM, a 31st in the 100-breast
a 38th in the 200-lM, and a 41s
in the 200-back. David Stillma
is currently placed 28th in th350
free and 43rd in the 100-free.

Wrestling
Often in individual sports
there are opportunities for th
individual to steal the show. I
the Apprentice lnvitationalgjln
ior Eric Shirley contiued hi
streak of solid wrestling by tak
ing a second place finish wit
two wins.
The Generals also had sopho
more Colin Looney ﬁnish third
and Cole Van Nice and Anthon
Rafla, the super sub from a fe
weeks ago, took home fourt
place finishes. Shirley’s victo
ries give him a 12-6 record over
all, and 12-2 since droppin
weight classes. Van Nice con
tinues to lead the team witlul
wins, nine pins, and 37 takedown
)n the season. Raﬂa’s victory i
he tournament came via the pi
iis fourth of the season.
Rafla’s four ties him for thir
3n the team and means that all 0
1is wins this year have cogn
with the pin. For the year, fresh
man Adam Branson ranks se
and behind Van Nice with ﬁv
pins.
As a team, the Generals fi
ished sixth of seven teams 0
the weekend. .

 
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
    
   
    
     
 
    
    
  
   
    
   
   
    
    
 
   
   
    
 
 
  
     
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
   
    
   
  
   
 
   
   

      

