 
       
 

xv hizhtiri 1°W.309+

  

VOLUME 93, NO. 24

  

[II
‘*6
‘.3.
3
e.
3
3?
O
3
3:!
3
9..
5
2

 

W&£ gears upfor warm      

 
 

-' -L?-%—'.

weather 9

Undefeated W omen’s Tennis
Burns Up Court to # 3

he iﬁing-tum ljﬂhi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

File Photo V

‘ The science center site plans were approved Thursday. Construction workers will park in the Lenfest Center lots- -

City approves center plan

Science center construction to begin in June

By RICAHRD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The Lexington City Council approved the
site plan for Washington and Lee’s new $20
million science center last Thursday, but
only after W&L agreed to open the Lenfest
Center fan court to faculty parking.

The opening of the Lenfest fancourt would
help compensate for the loss of 59 parking
spaces during construction of the new sci-
ence center. W&L Capital Planning Coordi-
nator Frank Parsons also agreed to allow
faculty to park in lots currently reserved for
residents of Gaines Hall.

Approval of the plan came after council
members discussed potential parking prob-
lems with Parsons for more than an hour.
Lexington Mayor Homer “Buddy” Derrick
expressed doubts about Parsons’ initial plan
of opening up to faculty use only the Gaines
students’ lots.

Parsons cited a study by W&L Security

 

Director Mike Young, which showed that 34
spaces at the university lot on McDowell
Street were reserved for students but seldom
used by them. Parsons said those spaces
could be reclassified as faculty parking to
make up for the spaces lost to the science
center construction.

The remaining 25 lost faculty spaces would
be made up by a parking lot at Virginia
Military Institute that W& L plans to lease
during the science center construction.

Those 59 spaces weren’t enough to satisfy
city officials.

Derrick said he thought that the cars
registered but not parked in W&L lots were
parked on public streets, aggravating the
city’s shortage of parking.

“The cars [not parked in the lots] are not
ﬂoating into the sky somewhere,” Derrick
said. “They’re on Lexington streets.”

The mayor wanted to force W&L to guar-
antee university parking spaces for all stu-
dents registered in the Gaines Hall lot, as well
as for faculty who will lose spaces to the

science center construction. Derrick said that
guarantee would prevent student and faculty
cars from being forced into city parking
spaces.

City Councilman Pat Mayerchak proposed
that Washington and Lee build a new lot
under the science center or adjacent to VMI.

“We want some commitment [from Wash-
ington and Lee], not just promises,”
Mayerchak said.

As a compromise, Parsons accepted open-
ing the Lenfest fan court to parking. Parsons
initially opposed the compromise because,
he said parking cars there would probably
damage the decorative inset stones. But when
he conceded the council approved the sci-
ence center plan.

“There is a certain amount of resentment
at the city dictating to us how to use our own
parking lots,” Parsons said. “But...we’re ac-
ceptingthe [city’s] stipulations to get on with
our planning.”

Construction of the science center is sched-
uled begin in June and last four years.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 25, 1994

Law School
gets new dean

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

On July 1st, 1994, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity School of Law will have a new law dean.

Barry Sullivan, partner with the Chicago law
firm Jenner & Block, has been named law dean to
replace Randall P. Bezanson, who resigned after
six years.

Sullivan graduated cum laude with honors in
philosophy and political science from Middlebury
College in 1970. He received his Juris Doctor
degree from the University of Chicago Law School
in 1974.

In 1972, he interned at the State Department of
Educational and Cultural Services in Augusta,
Maine. During the summer of 1973, he served as a
law clerk at Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley &
Ketchum in Boston, Massachusetts. He also served
as a law clerk to the Honorable John Minor Wis-
dom, 1925 W&L graduate and U.S. Circuit Judge
for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
in New Orleans from 1974 to 1975. Wisdom
nominated Sullivan for the position of Dean of the

He worked for Jenner & Block until 1980 when
he became assistant to the solicitor general of the
United States with the Department of Justice in

  

1

Washington, D.C. He became a partner ofJenner & I

Block in December 1981.

He taught law at Loyola University of the Chi- .

cago School of Law. Currently, Sullivan teaches
law at Northwestern University School of Law in
Chicago.

Sullivan has published and spoken on a wide
range of legal and ethical issues, most recently on
issues relating to AIDS. He is a member of the legal
review and advisory panel of the National Leader-
ship Coalition on AIDS. He is also a member ofthe

Board of Trustees of Catholic Theological Union I

and serves on the school’s academic affairs com-
mittee. He has held leadership positions in the
American Law Institute, the American Bar Asso-
ciation, and the Seventh Circuit-Bar Association.
He is a member of the Illinois State Bar Association
and the Law Club of Chicago.

President John Wilson said he was pleased
with Sul1ivan’s acceptance.

“I am delighted that he accepted our offer,”

Law School.

he said.

ar tax to get ax

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee senior
Meredith Cook’s parents hit the
ceiling last year when Lexington
sent them a tax bill for the 1986
Volkswagen Jetta that Cook
drives.

They thought it was unfair for
Lexington to tax the car, because
it is registered in Maryland. But
current Virginia law allows Lex-
ington to tax any car, regardless
of where its registered, that is
kept in Lexington for more than
half a year as long as its owner
does not pay a car tax elsewhere.

The area of Maryland in which
Cook lives does not have a car
tax, and Cook has lived in Lex-
ington year-round since her
sophomore year. By law, there-
fore, Lexington was able to tax
the Jetta.

However, the law maybe
changing. A bill the Virginia
Assembly passed two weeks ago
would make Lexington’s student
car tax on some student cars ille-
gal. The bill still allows for taxa-
tion of parent-owned cars. Of
course, the city can tax any car
registered inside of Lexington
regardless of ownership.

City Manager Jon Ellestad
said the current tax is not a popu-
lar one.

“We get a lot of nasty letters
from parents out of state,”

Ellestad said.

Ellestad said the purpose of
the tax is fair, however. Students
from both W&L and Virginia
Military Institute use city roads
and city services like the police
and fire departments, he said.

“We think the students are
residents of Lexington and should
help pay for the governmental
services,” he said.

“The total of money we’re
arguing about is less than the
amount that W&L spends on
Fancy Dress, a one weekend
party. I don’t see why it’s that big
of a deal,” he said.

The student car tax generated
about $65,000 for Lexington last
year. If Governor George Allen
signs the recent bill into law,
Ellestad said he expects the city
will lose at least half that
revenue.

Senior Jimmy Kull said he is
pleased with the assembly’s
decision.

“I had been told a couple of
years ago when I was fighting
[the student car tax] that this kind
ofbill was in the works. I’m glad
it finally passed,”.he said.

Kull said he’s been fighting
the tax since Lexington officials
got serious about collecting it
three years ago. State laws
weren ’t any different before then,
but the city did not actively col-
lect the tax.

“I think it’s kind of aslap in
the face to students who pump so

much money into the economy
through other means,” Kull said.

The city currently taxes at car
at the rate of $4.25 per $100, or
$425 per $10,000 of value.

Ellestad said Lexington can’t
tax all the eligible cars, because
W&L won’t give the city a list of
student cars. VMI has provided
the city with a list of its students’
cars he said.

Ellestad said W&L President
John Wilson is opposed to the
tax. Wilson will not hinder the
city’s attempt to collect it, he
said, but he will not help the city
collect it either.

If the bill does become law,
Ellestad said, it will be up to the
City Council to determine
whether Lexington will continue
trying to collect the tax from par-
ent-owned cars.

“It‘s a real headache to collect
to begin with,” Ellestad said.

He said it would prove even
more difficult and time-consum-
ing for the city to determine own-
ership of every car. He also said
the new law based solely on own-
ership would make the tax even
more inequitable and unfair to
students who do have to pay.

Ellestad said he would like
the laws to remain unchanged
but isn’t optimistic because the
bill is neither large nor contro-
versial on the state level.

“I’m still hoping the governor
will veto, but I suppose I
shouldn’t wish for miracles.”

 
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  

W&L host st aa   show

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

   

 
 

 
  
     

Evans Dining Hall was the place to be

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
    
  
 
  
  
   
     
  
 
   
      
       

S‘aﬂ:_Wﬁf,°"    ‘ 4' I '   I to have fun and gain weight Thursday,
1'  * '  =1   . ~    Q March 24.
.  5 gytjagk;-xetsgm Washington . Twenty-eight food manufacturers
»f,..,B‘{;feau‘Chief‘of ThelI;z>s.;4n—' showed their wares in the D-Hall from
_ _'fg_glesTi;nesandPn1itze;{§yize 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. for W&L’s first
 winnmg,.author,_ spoke abotut food show: Food for the 90s -— An Invita-
 the [ journalism of they ;i'vi1. ‘ tion to Wellness-
_ :.» Rights movement on  The University community was in-
v . gay, . ‘ ; -  I’ : vited to sample the foods, free of charge,
1 . , Nelson has covered the, and offer comments on evaluation forms
I . 7 South for'The Atlanta Jour- about the f00dS-
; ‘» naland Cdnst£tuzion,}{e—3}sQ. “I thought it was a great way for the
‘cw;-ore save;-31-books, include" students to express their opinions about
ing Terror in the-Nighg, an .  the foodsthey’d like to see in the D-Hall,”
aocountofKu Kjux Klancam- . ﬁ;sg’;adi¢g~sh_' V 1‘; said freshman Jenny Walton.
paigns against the Jewsin the not heard;‘*Tiiey . D00TP1’iZ€_Saﬂd3WaTdS3b01}I1d€d.With
_, 1960s, for which he was power she,~has.I-some four TVs being offered as prizes. along

with CD holders, boom boxes, and a
myriad of other prizes. The prizes were
supplied by the manufacturers.

Even if they didn’t get a prize, every-
one got their very own food show bag
stocked with a W&L paper cup, a health
quiz, chips and candy.

“I thought that it was a really good
idea. I really like all the foods that I tasted
and there was so much there that Icouldn’t
get around to everything,” said freshman
Wendy Finelli.

There were many well-known manu-
facturers at the food-o-rama, including

placed on J. Edgar Hoover’s- do not like thé9po.wer"she has "
, blacklist , inthe health careplan andhérif‘
. , “Once the White Knights health care plan.” f . " ,. V L V
in Mississippi realized they “'1’his';ese‘nn1j¢m is :pe1-g ,.
could not defeat the Civil petuated by"p‘r6paganda put" V
, A Rights m0‘/émeﬂt, they de~ outbytheextrerne$»vhitewing"II
I cidedtl1atJewsweretheprob- oftheconservativeparty.'Fhe- Q
' lern. Jews were the support- hatred for Ktlie: Clintons _

ers of the Civil Rights ,move- worse than the.ha_tred that was.‘

I vment; that is why they be— present for‘{Fr;3nklfiri 2. 
came the focus ofanti-Semitic Eleanor Rooseveltfhe added.
action, which included the StajfTwriterJayWhitecan-
blowing up of synagogues,” tributedigo‘ this story. ‘

  

hoto b Bets Green, The Ring—!um P i
A worker serves up healthy food choices at Washington and Lee’s first Food Show in the Dining
Hall. Thursday’s event was part of the Dining Services’ effort to serve healthier foods.
General Mills, Kelloggs, Stouffers, Pearce All the manufacturers offered healthy entered into an agreement with SYSCO
Chicken, Nestle and Quaker Oats. foods. Dining Services Director Jerry according to Darrell.

Coke and Pepsi were also present. Darrell and Executive Chef Greg Pearce SYSCO will serve as the University’
Pepsiscontractrunsouton May31, 1994. have been meeting with the Student primary supplier of food and dining hal
This puts the soda question once again up Health Committee to discuss healthy food equipment.
in the air. choices atthe three campus dining service Before, a number of companies sup

‘‘I really hope that we get Coke next locations. plied the D-Hall with its needed goods.
year. I like Coke better than Pepsi. l W&L hosted the food show along with Under SYSCO’s one-year contract, 9
know a lot of people thatvoted to have it," SYSCO Food Services of Virginia. percent of everything the Dining Servic
said Finelli. The W&L Dining Service recently buys will be supplied by SYSCO.

   
  

    
 
   

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  

  

1>‘AGE 2

Barbeque

‘I4/e§“Lz"fe

returns to Lexington at last

By ETHAN KRUPP and STEPHEN WILLIARD
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

bLexington has been bereft of a barbecue
restaurant for most of the year since one on
Washington Street closed earlier this year.

Pete’s Barbecue Station has recently filled
that void.
The new restaurant, located where Jefferson
;Street runs into Main Street next to Stop-In,
' fﬂers a choice of pork or beef barbecue, barbe-
_;ued chicken, and ribs when available. Also
erved are hot-dogs, Polish sausages, and
frunswick Stew.

Pete’s is set up in true fonn for a relaxed,
\formal dinner. The restaurant presents a
'~me-style feeling to its customers.
‘You can get your food to go, or stay and eat

in the restaurant. The service was quick and
’ iendly. We had been told that all good barbe-
' re places must have religious pictures on the
alls, but we think this place is the exception.
esides, we found the pictures of dogs playing
.oker much more interesting, particularly “A
';iend in need,” and “His station and four aces.”
er admiring the pictures, we sat down to
* inner.

One of the more unusual items on the menu
as the barbecued potatoes which consisted of

re potatoes are one of the side orders that you

, th hushpuppies.

  

 

By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
Pete Harris, owner of Pete’s Barbeque Station, prepares some
barbeque before opening for the day. A varitey of items are offered.

The pork barbecue was served with an east-
all peeled potatoes cooked in barbecue sauce. em style, thin sauce.

While the sauce itself was disappointingly
n choose from when you order a barbecue bland, Texas Pete was provided to liven up the recommend both.
, e. The other options are baked beans, cole meal.The actual barbecue was above average.
. AW, and French fries. The plates also come We would not call it the best we have ever had,
but it was definitely worth eating.

The dessert options include homemade spice
crunch cake, brownies, and banana pudding.
We sampled the brownies and cake, and highly

The only complaint we had about the service
was we had to eat out of a take-out tray in the
restaurant, but that very well could have been a

The Ring-tum Phi, March 25, 1994

  

   

Photo by Bethany Smith, The.Ring-tri-nit Phi
Pete’s Barbeque Station is the third and most recent restaurant run by
Pete Harris, who has been making barbeque for over 20 years.

misunderstanding on our part. A special take-out menu is also available.

The price for the food was by no means On this menu, pints and quarts of barbecue can
cheap, but it was reasonable. One barbecue be purchased.
platter cost $5.45 and a brownie was 85 cents. Pete’s also does catering. They advertise
The platter did come with a great deal of food additional items are available when they cater,
for the money, however, and Pete’s deﬁnitely so Rush chairmen may want to consider using
remains on our list of places to eat out. Pete’s next year for Rush.

The hottest trends for looking
cool this springtime i Lexington

 

 

Spring is here, marking the post-velvet, pre-white-shoe
season.

Sunshine and warmer weather means that it is time for
shorts again. Natural fabrics in neutral colors like khaki,
beige, olive, gray and navy will be favorites for W&L men
and women. Everyone can wear them with bucks, sandals,
running shoes or the same boots they have been wearing all
winter.

Exercise clothes will be popular as students enjoy the
great weather outdoors and start getting in shape for spring
term fun. Any piece of W&L merchandise is a natural choice
— especially lacrosse shorts — and you can charge it home.
The bookstore also has plenty of W&L umbrellas for April ’s
showers.

But while the sun is out, sunglasses are in order. They go
nicely with and windbreakers.

For girls, it is time for ponytails and painted toenails, as
well as straw hats and sweater sets in soft spring colors.
Khaki and denim skirts are perfect choices for class or
hanging out at the Co-op. You can wear them with almost
everything—sandals, ﬂats, sneakers and any woven shoes.

Natural, ﬂowing, woven fabrics like rayon, linen, ma-
dras, and seersuckers are great for little spring dresses, long,
lean skirts and dresses, palazzo pants, short skirts and
rompers.

The traditional spring choices of ﬂorals and navy and
white look just as fresh. As every spring, it’s time for cute
straw hats again too.

For both girls and guys, t-shirts are a natural choice for
all these spring shorts. For a step dressier than polos, button-
down shirts have a classic look, whether in white, colors or
stripes — especially green and white or blue and white
oxford cloth stripes. And when the occasion calls for a tie,
shorts still make their appearance.

Top spring accessories include W&L hats, leather or
insignia belts, scrunchies for spring ponytails, Colonnade
cups, backpacks, and cheerful speaking—tradition smiles.

 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

_I:earning to ﬂy

The second bill of one act plays in the Armual Festival of One Acts

opens tonight at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center. In Eleemosynary,

. with Jeanne Dillon, ’96, and Dorian Lucas,

‘V fragile relationships of three generations 0

The Valentine Fairy, with Ellen Dean, ’94, and Bill Haase, ’97, is

1 about a woman who is confronted by a fairy who, through the use
if slides of her many former lovers, helps Ingrid (Dean) to redis-

cover her innocence. Admission is free for students and faculty.

’94, pictured here, the
f family are dealt with.

Socks, however, are optional.

public“, photo Right: The natural colored shorts

sandals, boots, or bucks.

will do nicely.
Photos by Ethan Krupp

 

In The Columns on March 24, 1944, it was reported
that on Saturday, March 25, at noon, all the freshman who
entered Washington and Lee in February were allowed to
remove their hats. Originally, the freshman had been
scheduled to wear their caps for the entire quarter, but
they piled up a record six weeks without any freshman

being turned in for a violation of the freshman rules.

For this, an equal number of weeks were suspended
from their hat-wearing period. The freshman class had
been required to wear the hats in an attempt to curtail
mischievous behavior.

On March 21, 1969, The Ring-tum Phi reported that
WLUR—FM had become entirely student staffed due to

he leave of absence of former station manager and
Journalism professor, Charles E. Winston. A student
managerial staff assumed almost complete control of the
station’s operations. New equipment and new program-
ming was added under the new management. At the time,
the station boasted several thousand albums in its library.
The collection had everything from Shostakovick to Iron

‘Butterﬂy.

In the Phi on March 22, 1984, it was reported that the
members of the Sigma Nu fraternity had decided not to
take any further action against the Phi Delta Theta
fraternity for a recent incident. On March 3rd, an

Compiled by JAY WHITE of the Phi Staff

For The W&L Record

artillery round simulator was thrown from the Phi Delt
house, across Henry Street, and into the Sigma Nu yard.
Two Phi Delt sophomores admitted to being responsible
for the act. Sigma Nu decided not to seek any further
retribution for the act after Phi Delt was given two weeks
of social probation and each of the sophomores received
four weeks. The sophomores were also prohibited from
living in the house spring term. The Student Conduct
Committee ordered the individuals to pay for the dam-
ages to the Sigma Nu house and make personal apologies
to members of the fraternity. The simulator round was
purchased at a gun show in Texas.

The Phi of March 23, 1989 covered the surprise visit
to W&L by Donna Rice. She spoke at the 15th Annual
Journalism Ethics Institute. She requested that her
comments be kept off-the-record, but then later con-
ceded, stating she wished her comments to stay inside
the classroom. At that point, Dennis Montgomery, chief
of the Richmond Bureau of the Associated Press, walked
out. Later, according to Montgomery, he reentered at
the request of a University official. Regardless of the
request for privacy, her comments were found in article
in The Washington Post, The Washington Times, and
USA Today. Her visit took place only two months after
her affair with former Senator Gary Hart became public.

look is in for the springtime. Shoes,
if you decide to wear them, can be
running shoes as modeled here, or

Below: Teva style sandals are very popular
on the W&L campus, but just about
any kind of sandal, including
birkenstocks and woven sandals,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

‘¢_...,..«.,«v.,3’* "‘ 

PAGE 3

(I112 ifting-tum iﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

What’s oin on‘?
O

In case you were wondering what is going on, the page you are looking at
is the real editorial page of a real four page newspaper. The “second” front
page you saw was a real front page.

The outside newspaper is obviously a parody. We know it’s not April
Fool’s day, but this is the closest day to April 1 that a Phi actually will come
out. The parody issue is meant to be fun for everyone, so we hope it has, or
will, amuse you. It is truly meant in good fun.

Goodbye

The year has gone by so quickly right now it’s all a blur.

Seems like it wasn’t so long ago that we were telling you how much we
wanted to change the Phi. We think its safe to say the Phi is a lot different today
than it was a year ago. We just hope you’ve liked the changes. Anyway, its
time for a bunch of us to say bye to the paper and, in about seven weeks, to
W&L. So, ifyou will bear with us we’d like to say some goodbyes and thank-
yous.

Fran — It’s been a crazy year. I can’t think of a year in the last four that has
had as much going on consistently as this year has. From the Phi office you
get to see a lot, both literally and figuratively, that you wouldn’t otherwise.

I’ve been fortunate to have some great opportunities and to work with
wonderful people. Ifl were to thank everyone who deserved it I would take
up way too much space. I would like to say thanks to everyone who believed

‘ in t-he same things I did last spring. You knew the Phi could be a good paper

again, and I will forever be indebted to you.

To keep this short, it has been a lot of fun. But, its time to move on. So,
until graduation I will see you at Goshen and after that, who knows, but I
suspect there will be more than a few of us who meet again.

Nancy ——- Ugggggh. Craziness. Lack of Sleep. Three little sentences that
sum up the annoying aspects of nights at the Phi. But it wasn’t all insanity as
we tried to cover the ins and outs of life at W&L. Sometimes we actually had
a lot of fun doing this —— at least I did. Things sure have changed since last
spring and many of those changes were only possible because you (yes, you)
kept reading it and letting us know where to go and what to do next. But hey,
that’s what wc’re here for, right.

So little space, so many folks to thank (ok, so Fran’s right about that part).
Thanks to all the people who spent too many hours to count up here. Despite
the crankiness at 3 a.m., you were all wonderful people to work with. I must
admit, I really need to thank the two individuals who badgered me into doing
this. It was more than I bargained for but worth it. To those getting ready to

’ take over, have fun with it; there’s only 27 more wonderful issues after that

first awful week.

But for now, it’s off to Florida and Goshen where all I do is sleep, get a tan,
sleep, hang out, sleep, drink, sleep....well, you get the picture.

Shelly —— Gee, uh, well, hmmm... They said all the good stuff. How do you
repeat sincerely thank-yous and I had a great times and I couldn’t have done
it without yous? Trust me, guys. You know I mean it. Special thanks goes to
Prof. Richardson (and I believe I speak for all of us) for being teacher, adviser,
and friend. (By the way, I like the ’fro.)

It’s hard to believe it is finally over. OVER. Perhaps my profs will see me
for my final Friday morning classes. I agree with Nancy: it’s more than I
bargained for, but worth it. I got a passel of new friends, a fondness for White
Russians, the endurance of a pack-horse, and a new Phi bocci uniform. If I find
a newspaper with those kinds of benefits in the real world I’ll never leave it.

Tom— My mom tried to convince me to ditch the Phi when my GPA
started plummeting like John Wayne Bobbitt’s self-esteem. I told her I had
to stick it out. I’m glad I did. Thanks to Fran and everybody on the staff. You
guys are some of the best friends I’ve ever had.

3 Working for the1Ph,i;has been an unbelieveable experience. In the past year,
I?ve managed to tick arr most of the deans, W&L Security, certain members
of the EC and the Lex cops. But at the same time, I’ve made a lot of friends.

Sometimes, when I’m up here at the Phi ofﬁce at 6 a.m. after a full night
of editing work, I wonder why I even bother, especially when I see my
fraternity brothers using the Phi to line birdcages, wrap fish, and the like. But
I realize now why I went through hell during my year as News Editor: I love
it. What? Did you think I actually did this for fame and fortune? Did you
honestly think I did this so that one or two drunk KAs will recognize me in the
Live Drive van? Wrong.

In any case, I feel a little better than my fellow editorial board members.
By the time you read this, they will have left the paper. At least my alter-ego
Spos will stick around for six more weeks to write Spos’ Space.

These goodbyes are always hard to end, so I’ll thank Fran, Nancy, Shelly
and the rest and wish Sarah good luck. After all, it’s hard work making The
Trident look so bad.

Well, thanks for letting all of us ramble. We all wanted to wish Sarah
Gilbert and her staff the best of luck. From what we’ve heard, the campus will
be getting a great newspaper in the next year. In fact, there are so many
talented freshmen on the paper it should be great for quite a few years to come.
Thanks to everyone who worked on the paper this year. Every single person
was essential. Very many thanks to Prof. Brian Richardson for being a friend,
advisor and great role model.

Bye. /_,~-..-~-~-
Z’ ‘ . .—
,‘. ‘_/,/ .. .-
. ’ I _ ‘
 It LU" ‘ e K; ‘
‘/Lrff ‘  V?"  I\'t  "‘)':3\ ,1
« "rgv “M

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hillary Olson, Melissa Sawyer

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green-

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obennueller

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee

' Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-mm Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does

not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ring-gtum Phi, March 25, 1994

  

Fiji House Corporation
protests unfairness

To the editor:

The following is a statement from
the House Corporation of the Zeta
Deuteron Chapter of Phi Gamma Delta
in response to the March 21, 1994
SAC sanctions conﬁrmed against the
fraternity relating to events occurring
on November 29, 1993, and Decem-
ber 4, 1993.

The Board of Directors of Zeta
Deuteron wants to express their total
disappointment and ooncem over the
sanctions imposed against our frater-
nity by the SAC. It is incorrect that
university officials and SAC commit-
tee members ignored established uni-
versity student handbook guidelines
in justifying the chapter’s suspension
through the 1994-1995 academic year.

It is also regrettable that these in-
equitable and heavy—handed sanctions
will lead to the closure of the Preston
Street facility and layoffs of all frater-
nity employees, despite SAC state-
ments reﬂecting the university’s “de-
sire to see Phi Gamma Delta returned
to a responsible place in the fraternity
system.” Our hearts go out to every-
one who is affected by this decision.

The House Corporation of Zeta
Deuteron requests that the adminis-
tration, faculty, student body, and
alumni consider what message your
university is distributing when it ig-
nores its own policy statements, un-
fairly challenges the integrity and
honor of its students, and restricts the
fundamental rights of all members of
the university community.

At what point in the metamorpho-
sis of George Washington’s and Rob-
ert E. Lee’s university did students
give up their right to confront their
accusers, present factual evidence to
their defense, and have a fair and
impartial judicial process administered
by established university guidelines?

Since no university deﬁnition or
policy exists on hazing, the Zeta Deu-
teron House Corporation resents im-
plications defining our fraternity ac-
tivities hazardous to body, mind, or
property, and is appalled that an unani-
mous statement of our innocence to
the hazing charge is disregarded as a
cover-up among the brothers and
alumni. In fact, the fraternity is out-
raged that the university has labeled
seven innocent freshmen and our up-
perclassmen as liars, forever tainting
their integrity and honor.

In summation, this decision con-
tradicts the same qualities of univer-
sity lifestyle it attempts to protect.
This decision is tainted with dishon-
esty and ignores the honorable rights
of the accused, as well as conﬂicts
with published university policy. The

The Ring-tum Phi
is looking for an
Assistant Business Manager

SAC has conducted limited due dili-
gence, restricted testimony, ignored due
process, and restricted access to formal
appeals forwarded to the university out-
lining our position. The uncontradicted
facts of the case support that it is grossly
unfair to suspend the house. The univer-
sity handbook makes it clear that this is
inappropriate.

It should be stated that the Zeta Deu-
teron chapter acknowledged breaching
IFC regulations regarding organized
pledge meetings after 8 p.m. in the win-
ter term. The House Corporation im-
posed extremely harsh sanctions on this
breach of stated university policy and
fined the fraternity $5,000, severely crip-
pling the social budget and suspending
all social activities throughout the 1993-
94 academic year. The student-run IFC
agreed with our course of action and
approved these self-administered sanc-
tions.

University “analysis” on what took
place has persuaded the SAC to impose
a suspension policy which punishes in-
nocent freshmen, who must continue to
look for housing pending an “accept-
able House Corporation action plan;”
fraternity employees, who must look
for new jobs, alumni and members of
the House Corporation who must re-
spond to this Faber College (Animal
House) proceeding.

The Zeta Deuteron chapter of Phi
Gamma Delta respectfully disagrees
with this decision, but must move for-
ward in an honorable and responsible
manner. We have accepted the fact that
we have used poor judgment and vio-
lated university rules. Regardless of the
fairness of the penalty, we will confront
this challenge with the same vigor that
spearheaded our appeal and look for-
ward to a return to the university cur-
riculum.

The House Corporation has always
opposed hazing and was the first organi-
zation to introduce anti-hazing language
into Washington and Lee chapter’ rules
and regulations. Fraternity members are
lectured each fall on the subject and
minor infractions result in fines and
social probation.

Nothing will change this unfortunate
and unfair decision for the Fiji’s. Un-
prejudiced review of this case can only
prevent a similar incident from occur-
ring on campus and silencing desperate
questions of “How could this happen at
Washington and Lee University?”

Faithfully submitted,

Zeta Deuteron chapter

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity
John H. Norberg

House Corporation President

LETTERS

Flirting

The Film Society will present
Flirting at 8:05 p.m. on Friday,
March 25 and Saturday, March 26
in the Troubadour Theatre. There is
no charge for admission.

W&L-VMI

The Preston Society is a group
that helps W&L students and VMI
cadets get to know each other. For
more information call Lisa Green-
house at 462-4189 or Tom Hespos
at 464-1 155. a

Kids’ Playce

Kids’ Playce is looking for vol-
unteers. Construction begins April
20-24. For more infonnation, call
Susan Dittman at 463-3488.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

   
  
  
   
    
 

Big Sibling  

Be a big brother or sister to an
incoming East Asian exchange stu- ’ .
dent. Please see Professor Rogers
in the East Asian language center"
for details.

Calyx

If you haven’t received yor 1993 .
Calyx (from last year) please pick it
up at Carol Calkins’ office in the
University Center during normal 
hours or in the Calyx oﬁce in Uni-
versity Center room 206.

Phi

TheRing-tum Phi will next pub-
lish on April 22, 1994.

White Book Review a ,
chairman thanks W&L, ,

To the editor:

As chairman of the White Book
Review Committee, I would like to
thank the members of the student body,
faculty, and administration who have
contributed to our efforts over the past
six months. I would like to extend a
special thanks to all of the members of
this committee, who have invested time,
hard work, and a lot of thought into our
deliberations.

We have compiled a number of pro-
posed revisions to the White Book,
which we presented to the Executive
Committee on Monday, March 7. In
addition, we began a discussion of these
proposals last week on the 14th and
15th.

The White Book Review Commit-
tee will meet again with the Executive
Committee on Monday, March 28, at
7:30 p.m. in the Executive Committee
room in the University Center.

and an

Advertising Manager.

If interested, call
Ransom James at 462-4060.

   
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
   

This meeting will be open to _z,
student body, and I would like to ~,
tend an open invitation to all stud‘
interested in attending. Discussion a_v I
be limited to members of the e
Book Review Committee and the Ex-
ecutive Committee, but the meeti -tg
will give everyone an opportunity to
see what your elected representatives
to the Executive Committee think about
the White Book and the Honor Systqn.

Thank you all once again for your
continued interest in the White Book
Review Committee and our proposals.
Please feel free to attend the meeting
next Monday, especially if you are ,
concerned with the future of the Honor‘ '

System. ,

Sincerely,

Ames Hutton, ’94,

Chairman,

White Book Review Committee

O:OOOOOOOOI.OOCOOOOO‘.OOOOOOOO0.00000000G.O

  

Last Week:

WTennis——W&L 9, Guilford 0
MTennis~—W&L 8, Mary Wash. 1
Base——Lynchburg 25, W&L 3
WLax—Lynchburg 12, W&L 11

PAGE 4

 

rt.  _
 espeare,c_a.»1640)_,
“ “Please <10n’fg

ﬂoeef New Kidslon they 
_B1°e.l$a 1939)

(inning in the face of

' ' all as popular opinion and

tonsgof fan mail the
fr} dly guy from the 1.?.ex- ,
‘I1}?ost‘Officelug’sinto.

 house everyday, I am *

s?ayirig“Sovlorig,farewell” Z

'_:.}1(JU.l‘i,€ Andrews. 1973)’. to. ' .
‘ ..:all my sports fanatics and ‘
I jgzcolumn groupies.

or Stephen.-Wiil'iard,imy

ass;istant,»i's' slated to "

me as sports e

g A, I the has not yet7de~ A
ed uporianew name-f 3} »

0.; . B
19‘ 

i'nonths‘assportseditorthat‘ ‘

yes,-.1W.a'shington and'I;e'e
’tu_del-nts do read the sports .
pagesivand» yes, Washing ,

ton and-Lee athietesvreally 

missp I

y, Hollis.

3

one itting-tum Iﬂhi

PORTS

This Week:

WLax-—Mary Washington 03/26
MLax—at Roanoke 03/26
M&WTennis—at Emory 03/26
M&WTrack——at Battleground 03/26

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK AND FIELD

 

i e phot

Junior Marilyn Baker, number one player of Washington and Lee’s undefeated
women’s tennis team, hits a volley at W&L’s tennis courts.

J OCKSHORTS

 

Baseball

The Washington and Lee baseball team fell to
3-10-1 on the season after a 25-3 drubbing at the
hands of Lynchburg. The Generals fell to 1-6 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference with the
loss.

Earlier in the week, the team lost a double
header to Virginia Wesleyan 11-8 and 13-5. Junior
Bates Brown tied a record for doubles with his
ninth of the year against Virginia Wesleyan.

Also, since returning to the Generals lineup,
Duane Van Arsdale has rallied the team with a .385
batting avera e, A I

,ii.:.Also”‘ct5ntribiii'iiig‘for "the ‘team Was Tommy I
Esposito, who went 7-15 on the week to improve

his average to .324.
The next team on the slate for the Generals is
Emory and Henry at home on Saturday, March 26.

Men’s Lacrosse

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team
had a week off after a defeat at the hands of 5th-
ranked Gettysburg March 19.

The Generals faced the high-ranked foe at
Rockbridge County High School, but fell just short
of the powerhouse, 10-7. The Generals are cur-
rently ranked 13th in Division III.

Junior midfielder Scott Mackley was the high
scorer for the game, adding two goals and two
assists to the Generals’ effort.

Next up for the lacrosse team is a big Old
Dominion Athletic Conference match-up versus
eighth-ranked Roanoke, March 26.

Women’s Lacrosse

Women’s lacrosse at Washington and Lee suf-
fered a big conference let-down March 24, as the
Generals lost a close game, 21-11, to Lynchburg.

The women are now 1-3 for the season and 1-2
in the conference.

The Generals came from a 12-7 deficit with five
minutes left in the game and rallied to come within
one. However, Lynchburg stole the ball with seven
seconds left, preventing a tying goal by the Lady
Generals.

Senior Angie Carrington led the Generals with
five goals and two assists and Sarah Smith made 14
saves to keep Washington and Lee in the game until
the final seconds.

W&L faces Mary Washington at Liberty Hall
Field, March 26, in a non-conference game.

Track and Field

. Washington.-and ,1-.c5.<=. .h<2.s.t<id its tti,i,r.s1;.an_,n»al 5,, .
W&L Track ‘Invitational March 19, andboth the C’

men and the women had strong showings in the 12-
school field.

The men finished second with the help of four
individual champions. Sophomore Harris Morrison
set a meet record in the pole vault at l4’0”; sopho-
more Dax Mahoney also ran a meet-record time in
the 400-meter dash, 49.84.

Junior Grant Cowell ran an even two minutes in
the 800-meter run for the win and senior Scott
Covey was the 400-meter hurdle champion with a
time of 56.68.

The women were led to their fifth-place finish
in an extremely tough women’s field by sopho-
more Sandra Holmes, who broke two of her school
records.

Holmes placed second in the shot put, 37’2”,
and discus, 115’7”. Freshmen Hollis Leddy and
Erin Gnidziejko also set school records, Leddy
with a 200-meter dash of 27.84 seconds and a 400-
meter time of 1:02.35 and Gnidziejko with a 400-
meter hurdle time of 1:15.77.

The final school record for the Generals was the
4x400-meter relay team of senior Amy Brown,
junior Kim Herring and freshmen Leddy and Megan

Hovda, in a time of 4:22.1.

The Generals head to Mary Washington Col-
lege this weekend for the Battleground Relays,
March 26.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The spring season at Washington and Lee has
been one of the strongest so far this year and the
women’s tennis team has paced the charge with a
13-0 mark.

The undefeated record has not come entirely at
the expense of pushovers either. The Generals
defeated second ranked Kenyon College to press
their case for one of the two at large team bids for
nationals from the South Region. Last year, the
Generals did not even win a match from Kenyon.

Sophomore Julie Ayers attributed the team’s
success to the experience gained last year.

“We didn’t graduate anyone. I guess we’re just
used to playing together,” Ayers said.

The match against Kenyon, last year’s Division
III national champions, saw the Generals get wins
from sophomores Kelly Sunderman and Julie Ayers,
junior Marilyn Baker and Anna O’Connor. Baker
and Ayers, and Kim Dickinson and Anna O’Connor
won in the doubles matches for a 6-3 win.

More recently, the Generals swept Guilford and
Mary Washington in back to back 9-0 contests. The
W&L squad faces a tough challenge this upcoming
weekend with back-to-back matches with ranked
teams in Emory(9) and Carleton(18).

Already the Generals have beaten three teams
they had never beaten before; Mary Washington,
Radford, and Kenyon. W&L has also never beaten
Emory either according to Ayers.

The team opened the fall season with the goal to
reach nationals as a team — something W&L has
not done in three years.

MARCH 25, 1994

I1’ ni third in nation

Now, with the recent success, some are think-
ing of expanding that target.

Junior Marilyn Baker has set a lofty goal.

“Our goal is definitely to get that brass ring for
winning nationals,” said Baker.

Coach Cinda Rankin agreed — partially. She
said that the team wanted to play “once we get
there to the best of our abilities.”

Rankin also said she thinks the team could have
gone to nationals last year.

‘‘I think we would have gone last year, but three
of the top six went abroad spring term,” said the
Generals’ head coach.

Rankin agreed that this upcoming weekend
was important.

“This is a big weekend because we play Emory
University, who is one of our rivals in the region,”
said the coach.

One factor that will be working in the Generals’
favor is the fact that the tournament has been
expanded from 12 to 14 teams this season. Each
of four regions receives two automatic bids and
the nation as a whole gets six at-large bids.

All agreed this was a special year for the team.
Ayers, after emphasizing that she did not want to
jinx the team by making predictions, said, “It’s a
really exciting year.”

Baker also was confident. She said Nationals
were within reach.

  

“I think it’s definitely an obtainable goal, but /,

it will take a lot of work, and we have to handle the
pressure,” she said.

The understatement of the season has to go to
coach Rankin however.

“We have a very good team, ” she said.

Yes, you do.

Heads up...

against Emory and Henry.

Sophomore Graig Fantuzzi pitches in the Generals’ loss. The Washington
and Lee baseball team is struggling to overcome a four-game losing streak,
and will have a good chance March 26 when they begin a double-header

File photo

No more NCAA forecasting for Steve

ﬁlth spurts

Enrol

... .-. ._. -4

 .,€1tl_e.11Cl.?1nC€; these may 110‘ for the Lakers to surge for a few Parting Shots—- Thank vou Chicago

~ . I . _ ' his will take up a lot of
 h  b -th 1 V t - 5‘°"S’l . . . . . ~
. We een e°n.Yf'“95 0 AWAY GAMES games, but 51111 fall_Sh0Fl0f1he space in the column, Wl‘llCh IS That skater girl from Portland White Sox, for mercifully  
?§f"diib"“?; Shovrfggwai BY STEPHEN WILLIARD Pl3Y0ffS- Next Year, lfthe Ullfefs always good. who beat up Nancy Kerrigan will sending Michael Jordan down
, 3? 6 ca 1 er '0 Cangrabsomepleyefsﬂhey mlghl In the National League, the just not go away. Now she is to the minors, all though he ..
S‘,eam' , h3Ve 3 Cl13T1Ce- Bravesshouldwin. Enough said. possibly going to skate profes- should probably have been   
ten$Sei":Ssaa;1i€I.lni\l7;’€r)f:te0Il1’ySv I simply refuse to make any First}; Jotllinson has tz sionally. cut entirely.
, a more NCAA predictions. The provet at e can coac Personally, I think To conclude the fun this ., .., ..
 lhmlgh the Women  Seem * ' basis for my new-found resolu- basketball, however. C é thatthatskater girl from week, andlknow this week’s  
In? §I:‘t’§)::f £8; tion comes from the fact that The other big news of Portland who beat up Phi (or whatever it is called -
' , , i _ my calls have been devastating the week came out ofthe - - - Nancy Kerrigan should for today) has provided
.year’»an allllaﬁlgg feat for the teams involved. National Football Well’ slnce:  Unlverslty of not appear in print any- plenty, I would like to thank   
S15. accofgp 13 eh‘ db ’ Well, since the University League. The league in- North Carohna [S no longer more. I’m just getting everyonewhobothers to read
Ports I I 3 mg 3’ an ‘ of North Carolina is no longer troducedthe rule changes tired of seeing her ev- this far in the paper each and

riding through the East Re- lmllmﬁﬁlf M7‘?

gion, that region is wide open

.9 en's lacrosse are action»
cked and worthwhile, as,
ell." “ V

for next year, and the
most evident change in-

riding through the East Region,
that region is wide open to any-

erywhere.
Now that the North

every week.
Your support (lack of

. .  _  -  one. I personally think that volved the introduction . Carolina Tarheels are somethingbettertodo)means   
 , If3g’“haYetgam:da‘.1y_g f0UF teams Will Win The diffel“ Oflhe ‘W0 P0lm C0nVef- t0 anyone. Ipersonally thlnk out of the tournament, a lot to me.
I 11%‘ Ommy Wen W11“ 1 ‘ d ' th ' f t . . . h 11y h A d f h
"l“mW .52 I l\..0Pc Y9‘? 9  ;Il]Y1ar1el§<lJ(llrl.S an Compnse C S10Th:ri1Lfl)e ::::0i1ntro- thatfour teams will wln the hnilycczﬁghaupsgnahlligi now trliatS)2lr:ihOli:sivntb(i/e:Cdi:)eii  mlllllﬁlnly 
take €Y.§dv1co_’aﬂd\}$I£pI:  I dog’; know who ’those duced in response to an dlfferent regions and com_ clttss work that they to better things, MY C01,-
po1't.t_e eserving . , _ . teams will be, and I don t care apparent scoring drought _ _ missed and watch the UMN GETS TO BE . if
in .And.maybe you . at this point. Let’s go, Duke! In the league last season prise the F mal Four. Duke Blue Devils play SHADED IN!!!!! 1IlllIll’B11°’JE5li Jill.’ lg
 Besides,this week, there are and in an effort to make 9 on national television. Editor ’snote—Putebase-
  ~  . .. other, more interesting topics the games more exciting. I don t know who those I know they will en- ballfans may be rather upset it “W
I ew hoursawayfrotne to discuss. Many team represen- teams  be, and I don ’t care joy that. about Michael Jordan ’s new mmlmml 5° ﬁll
_y1ng_and Q31‘ tying._cs~ -- Now that Magic Johnson is tatives Claimed that _the . . , I One of the other ma- sport, but evidently the ratio
rally during spring the new head coach ofthe Lak- rule will have no notice- at thls point. Let S g0, Dllkeo jor upsets in the tourna- of Michael Jordan fans to mwmm  
_ . ers, theteam from LAjust might able effect On the gameS- merit was the upset of pure baseballfans like Steve
_se asgthe Generals G311 . return from the depths of Hades Since the baseball sea- Kentucky by Marquette is very high; the team in v,',-.
everfhurt you(un1essy0t_1 . and move back into the NBA SOn Opens On April 4 (8 (whom Duke beat, by ginia to which Jordan has  §  
Fe Olle Of‘ 31055 5eni°r5‘—= Pla)’0ff race g°"d day l0 mark 0“ Your 03130‘ In the American League, it really the way). been relegated has already Q 1&1‘ 0

dars, by the way) and springtrain-
ing is winding down, thetime has
arrived to make pre—season pre-
dictions.

Plus, since Major League
Baseball expanded to three divi-

Then again, maybe not.

The Lakers need more than
just the Magic-Man to return
them to greatness. The National
Basketball season is too long to
ride on emotion alone. Look

What ever happened to that
wonderful Duke-Kentucky
matchup that was supposed to
materialize? And what line of
suits has signed UK coach Rick
Pitino to a sponsorship?

sold out its first month of
games.

(Reminder: This is not
even a good minor league
team and minor league teams
never sell out.)

doesn‘t matter who wins, since
they will be cannon fodder for
Atlanta in one of the shortest
World Series ever played. That
about covers the upcoming base-
ball season.

E g12 Gen. Ed. credits
t tisterin) and it could d_o.._a. v
rldiof good-to some .
elete’s failing ego. _, ’
j I will see you at the

. _ field, sports fans.

Qalﬂ Sliltljﬂllgtllt

Militias it 452-
hint

