H -

  
 

\lt.x..s2_“.

rt
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

   

.\n1r

DCT9. 2 ‘IQCI3
Melissa Etheridge
K  hits scene with
I I new album 9

Schaeffer Wins
State Championship

 
  

 
 

(9

he ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

VOLUME 93, NO. 07 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   

 

 

   
   
    

  
  

 
  
 
  

photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
Professors take classes outside recently to enjoy the warm weather. But a cold front com-
ﬁg through Lexington this weekend may make classes on the lawn a thing of the past.

   

  

  

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

hi Delt gets
SAC Warning

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

 

Students, community
build playground

ing friends in Alexandria, Va.,
and decided that Lexington
needed such a structure.

But this is no ordinary play-
ground. Among the unusual fea-
tures of Lexington’s KidsPlayce
will be a pirate ship with a crow’s
nest and cargo net, four slides -
one wheelchair accessible and
one in the form of a dragon’s
head- a castle with a maze, tow-
ers and bridges, a fun house with
special steel mirrors, a tree fort
and aclimbingwall.

It may seem dif-
ficultto ﬁt allofthis
into 10,000 square
feet, but Lewis
showed slides from
a few of the Leath-
ers’ 850 other
projects throughout
the United States,
Australia and Israel.

The project
shouldcostbetween

  
 

She met with children all day
Tuesday at Lexington and
Rockbridge County schools,
gathering ideas from the “Kid’s
Committee,” before compiling
them all and drawing a plan.
The playground, which will
be built on Brewbaker Field over
the span of ﬁve days, April 20-
24, is a community effort headed
by Susan Dittman. Dittman first
came into contact with play-
grounds of this type when visit-

 

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

  
 

 

Children ran excitedly around
the gymnasium at Lylbum Down-
ing School Tuesday night as plans
for a new playground,

 
 
  
  
 
 

I ‘q(idsPlayce,” were unveiled by
its architect.

“This is a different kind of
playground,” said architect Jane
Lewis of Leathers Associates.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  

 

The perc

What do you get when you mix
chocolate syrup, corn ﬂakes and shav-
ing cream?

Critical probation.

The Student Affairs Committee
voted 8-3-0 on Oct. 15 to place Phi
Delta Theta fraternity on critical pro-
bation for the remainder of the aca-
demic school year.

The punishment stems from an Oct.
2 incident in which Phi Delt fraternity
members spread chocolate syrup and

cereal through the kitchen and dining
room of the Phi Delt house. In the same
incident, Phi Delts used shaving cream
to stick newspapers to the walls and
ﬂoors.

“The SAC decision was pretty rea-
sonable,” said Phi Delt President Billy
Guice. “It doesn’t curtail our social
plans, it just makes us more respon-
sible.”

The 1993-94 Student ‘Handbook
defines critical probation as “a strong
warning to a fraternity that speciﬁc
conduct has been unacceptable, and
that further violations of the Standards
for Fraternities and/or University

OCTOBER 22, 1993

policy could result in the suspension or .
the expulsion of the fraternity.

“A fraternity on probation would
automatically be considered for sus-
pension or expulsion by the SAC if
violations occurred in the following
areas:

OBlatant destruction of the frater-
nity house

0VioIation of the University Drug
Policy

OViolation of the University Haz-
ing Policy ~

hr See PHI DELT, Page 4

Alcohol causes 44  
student arrests

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi New Editor

Forty—four Washington and Lee stu-
dents have been arrested for alcohol
related crimes since the beginning of
the term —— 19 of them got snagged last
weekend.

That averages one alcohol-related
arrest per day since the beginning of
the term. Lexington City Police Chief
Bruce Beard had no explanation for the
high number of arrests last weekend.

“You usually find something like

this on big party weekends,” Beard
said. “The ABC wasn’t out in force,
but there were several here.” .

Beard added that on‘ an_average
weekend Lexington police and Alco-
holie Beverage Control officers make
four to six arrests for alcohol related
crimes. Beard said that there are usu-
ally two to six ABC ofﬁcers in Lexing-
ton on any given weekend, and usually
six on big party weekends.

A spokeswoman from the office of
ABC officer Leonard Vess said that
she was not at liberty to disclose how

many ABC officers were patrolling
Lexington last weekend, but added that
the arrests “were part of their daily,
regular job. Observations are part of
their working day.”

Causes for arrest include drinking
in public, -driving while under the in-
ﬂuence, reckless driving, underage
possession of alcohol, littering, and
refusal to take a breathalyzer test.

Of the 44, 14 were freshmen, 10
were sophomores, 12 were juniors and
seven were seniors. Only one law stu-
dent was arrested.

1993 Graduates in The Job Market

 

I Employed

 

E] Looking For Jobs

 

entages above are the current statistics available at Carreer Development and Placement.
The percentages are from the people who have responded to CD&P, 81 percent of the class of ’93,
and do not reflect the entire graduating class. These are not ﬁnal statistics.

$50,000-$75,000,
but the Kidsplayce
committee has al-
ready collected
more than $21,000,
mostly due to a do-
nation in memory of
Dittman’s father,
who died last year.

  
 
 

Class of ’93 still searching

Late job search delays in employment for many

 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
 

  

Members of the
committee include
students from
Washington and
Lee, Virginia Mili-
tary Institute and
residents of Lexing-
ton and Rockbridge
County.

Dittman likened
theworkoftheplay-
ground to having a
baby and said it
would have to come
out sometime.

I» See
PLAYGROUND,
Page 4

  
 

    

photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Scenes like this will soon be a familiar sight at Kids Playce.

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s Class of 1993 is
becoming cozy with a new four-letter
word...jobs.

The Career Development and Placement
Office (CD&P) has been keeping tabs on last
year’s seniors from the time they graduated
in June. They do this through December.

“We gather figures by writing to the se-
niors and telephoning them in September and
December,” said Beverly Lorig of the CD&P
office. ‘‘In December we hope to have a high
number with jobs.”

So far, 81 percent of last year’s graduating
class has responded to CD&P’s inquiries.

Fifty-nine percent of that 81 percent is
currently employed, in graduate school, or
continuing their education in some otherway.

While 59 percent is a seemingly low fig-
ure, many graduates have just started hitting
the pavement in the quest for a job.

“Oftentimes, seniors will take the sum-
mer off,” said Lorig. “They take a break
before they begin their job searches.”

Of the respondents, 2.74 percent said they
weren’t looking for jobs when they replied.

“We are seeing the result of students de-
laying [their job searches] until the fall,” said
Lorig of the 59 percent figure.

Thirty-eight percent are still looking for
jobs.
A “We expect that to become less,” said
borig. “We’ve been encouraged by recent
job offer reports.”

Hot regional spots for W&L grads include
the mid-Atlantic area, the District of Colum-
bia, Virginia, New York City and Georgia.

The job market is becoming more com-
petitive, said Lorig.

“Students need to be flexible,” she said.

W&L has an advantage in the rat race
with its strong academic profile. It is part of
an 11-member Selective Liberal Arts Con-
sortium (SLAC) that counts Bryn Mawr,
Haverford, Vassar and Pomona among its
members. V

“All [11 colleges] together have a real
strong profile,” said Lorig.

Employers have become more and more
interested in the SLAC’s job fairs. The fairs
are convenient for the employers to attend.

This year, 157 companies are participat-
ing in SLAC job fairs, a figure that is up from
previous years. The employer interest in
W&L is stronger than ever, according to
Lorig.

Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, New

it See GRADS, Page 4

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World

Ethnic cleansing continues in
Bosnia-Herzegovina

“Ethnic cleansing” continues in Bosnia-Herzegovina. In
Serb stronghold Banja Luka, Muslims and Croats continue to
ﬂee by the busload, forced out of the area by fire from Serb
gunmen. Local authorities deny there is any policy of terror
and claim unidentified “extremists” are at work.

Israel-PLO talks hit snag

lsrael’s refusal to release Palestinian prisoners accused of
killing Israeli citizens has served as the first stumbling block
in the Israeli-PLO negotiations. The issue is a sensitive one
for both groups. The Israeli government fears that freeing the
prisoners would bolster support for right-wing groups that
oppose the peace pact with the PLO. Palestinian negotiators
have stressed they want all prisoners set free, but would agree
with a phased release.

Aristide ally kidnapped

A parliamentary ally of Jean-Bertrand Aristide has been
reported kidnapped, according to two private Haitian radio
stations. Samuel Milord, a member of the Aristide coalition
National Front for Change and Democracy, was kidnapped
by gunmen late Wednesday in the uptown Debussy area of
Port-Au-Prince, according to family members.

The Nation

 

Shuttle astronauts participate
in medical study

As part of a study on space motion sickness, astronauts
aboard the space shuttle Columbia stared at colored dots in a
spinning dome. The shuttle was dispatched on a 14-day
medical research mission along with 48 research rats. Scien-
tists hope to use the data collected on the mission to counter-
act the effects of long space stays.

Censorship concerns raised

The Walt Disney Co. re-edited its motion picture “The
Program” after one teenager was killed and two others were
seriously injured while lying down in the middle of a busy
street, in imitation of a scene from the film. The move
immediately followed changes to the animated film “Aladdin”
and the MTV cartoon show “Beavis and Butt-Head” after
numerous complaints about their content. “Beavis and Butt-
Head” was moved to a later hour because of references to fire,
which an Ohio woman claims contributed to the death of her
daughter in a fire set by her young son. Arab-American
activists have called “Aladdin” racist.

Denny attacker acquitted of
attempted murder

Damian Williams was acquitted of attempted murder in
his April 29, 1992 attack on truck driver Reginald Denny in
the Los Angeles riots. Williams was found guilty of felony
mayhem for hitting Denny in the head with a brick. He was
also found guilty of four misdemeanor assault charges,
stemming from four assaults on other motorists. Henry
Watson was found guilty of misdemeanor assault for placing
his foot on Denny’s neck so that Williams could hit him with
the brick.

The State

State college students rally

Thousands of students at several Virginia colleges pro-
tested the possibility of budget cuts and tuition increases. A
crowd of 4,5 00 students gathered at Virginia Tech on Wednes-
day in protest. Smaller crowds gathered at Mary Washing-
ton, William and Mary, George Mason, and the University of
Virginia. Since 1989, the state has cut college funding by
$413 million. A $500 million budget shortfall is projected,
prompting Virginia’s Secretary of Education to direct state
schools to prepare for possible cuts of 10 to 15 percent.

Killer says he didn’t plan
trooper’s slaying

Prosecuters in the trial of Lonnie Weeks, a man accused of
killing a state trooper, say the accused killer was a small-time
drug dealer and car thief who bragged he could beat a murder
charge. Weeks has confessed to the slaying, saying he feels
remorse for the Feb. 24 killing on a dark exit ramp off
Interstate 95. Defense lawyers said he doesn’t deserve to die
for his crime.

By MICHAEL Htzwuzrr
Phi Staff Writer

If you’re in the mood for an All-
Vegetarian Pizza, then come on down
to the Generals’ Headquarters, other-
wise known as the Pit.

This year you may notice a couple
of changes from last year, including
changes in management and in the
menu.

According to Judy Sensabaugh, the

new manager of the Pit, the menu has ,

been changed from last year. She said
that appetizers like potato skins with
bacon have been added, as well as two
vegetarian sandwiches.

Sensabaugh said that the prices for
the salad bar are one dollar less than
last year and that fresh baked, hand-
carved roast beef will be available ev-
ery day.

Last year dinner in the Pit was dis-
continued because of declining proﬁts.

“The few regulars we had coming in
were upset,” said Sensabaugh.

Sensabaugh said that people didn’t
know where else to go.

However, according to Sensabaugh,
business is improving, and the all stu-
dent staff is doing a great job. She said
that an average of 80 to 100 people are
served everyday.

According to Sensabaugh, the Pit
can be reserved for student functions
by contacting Janet Goad in catering.

“If the organizations leave the Pit
like they found it, there is no charge,”
she said.

Sensabaugh said that there will be a
suggestion box outside the Pit for stu-
dents and that there will be a different
special each week, targeting a specific

Alcohol Abuse week kicks off 

Pit menu revamped-

0
The Rina-tum Phi. October 22.1993

  

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Two students enjoy a meal at the General’s Headquarters. The menu was redone for this year.

group on campus such as law school
students.

Student reaction to the changes in
the Pit are mixed.

Sophomore Tamara Watkins loves
the salad bar, but she said that the menu
has ﬂaws.

“lt’s missing a little bit of the sand-
wich variety it had last year,” said
Watkins.

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Health Education Committee and the Peer Counsel-

OIS.

Neuropsychologist Scott Swartzwelder of Duke
University kicked off Alcohol Awareness Week with

a lecture on alcohol and memory.

In his lecture, Swartzwelder revealed that alcohol
affects reflexes and memory, and inhibits the ability
to acquire new memory. Even “social drinkers show
cognitive deficits too,” said Swartzwelder, although
they are less severe than the effects resulting from

heavy drinking.

Alcohol Awareness Week is sponsored by the

' '5-‘fr’ 7zv."1r1r'f"~3'*.—.“ 'r.v''r~’ .

Econoriﬁc

reaches 0.09.

ler.

w-':r‘*s'3'«::«'"r«r-  "“'<f's"v=  7 6 *

 “apartment

in support of NAFTA

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The members of the economics de-
partment at Washington and Lee have
unanimously endorsed the ratification
of the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA).

In a statement sent to President Bill
Clinton and to all members of the Vir-
ginia Congressional delegation, the
members of the department said the
agreement ‘‘will allow most citizens,
including most workers, in the United
States, in Canada, and especially
Mexico, to enjoy a higher standard of
living and a better overall quality of
life than exists today. We recognize
that there will be some transitional
problems of adjustment when the treaty
comes into force, most notably some
modest reallocation of labor. Unfortu-

nately progress always involves
change, and change means necessarily
some problems of adjustment.”

The 12-member department also
endorsed President Clinton’s and Sec-
retary Robert Reich’s proposals for
programs of “adjustment assistance for
those individuals who must make
changes, especially programs of re-
training and skill development for la-
borers displaced by increased imports.”

“This endorsement reflects our
hopes that Congress and the American
people will see that free trade is the
best hope for seeing our economy
grow,” said Larry C. Peppers dean of
the school of commerce, economics,
and politics at W&L.

The endorsement was also signed
by the nine other members of the fac-
ulty of the C-school.

Watson Pavilion

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Watson Pavilion for Asian Arts
will be dedicated during ceremonies
Dct. 22 and 23.

The Watson Pavilion houses a col-
lection of more than 500 pieces of
porcelain, jade, ivory, and bronze span-
ning a period of 2,000 years. A large
part of the collection was donated by
Mrs. Elizabeth Otey Watson of
Lynchburg. Watson made the gift in
honor of her late husband, William C.
Watson, W&L class of ’29. Mrs.

Watson also provided fundsfor the con-
struction of the building.

Popular, provincial and imperial
porcelain from the Ming and Qing dy-
nasties predominate the Watson Col-
lection which includes Chinese paint-
ings, furniture, and accessories. Also
on exhibit at the Watson Pavilion are
collections of Chinese, japanese, and
Korean ceramics given or on loan to

the University by Groke W. Mickey of '

Charlottesville, Mr. and Mrs. Bolton
McBryde of Blacksburg, Felicia
Warburg Rogan of Charlottesville, and

Next Wednesday, October 27, a controlled drink-
ing experiment will take place in the Pit from 7 to 9
p.m. Subjects ofthe experiment will drink one 12 oz.
beer every 15 minutes until their blood alcohol level

“We’re asking every social organization to have
one representative,” said peer counselor Sarah But-

“We are going to constantly monitor their blood
alcohol level,” to ensure it stays within the legal limit,
said Dr. James Worth, University psychologist.

She believesthat the Pitbeingclosed
for dinner is limiting.

“Now, options for dinner are even
smaller,” she said. “A sit down dinner
at the Pit is more formal than at the Co-
op.”

Junior Lakiesha Townes agrees.

‘‘I’m getting used to the Pit not
being open for dinner,” said Townes.

Senior Pat McDermott believes that

Lexington police officers will administe =
breathalyzer tests after every beer.

“We’re trying to educate the campus on how
much or how little alcohol it takes to reach that level,”
said Butler.

Students can win door prizes and listen to the band

if the Pit was losing money then it
should have been subsidized by the
university instead of closing it down
for dinner.

Sensabaugh said that the Pit is al-
ways open for suggestions for improve-
ment. .
“lfwe know whatthe students want,
we’ll do everything we can to give it to
them,” said Sensabaugh.

Big Harry Posse during the experiment.

“It’s meant to be fun, but it will also have a
serious side,” said Dr. Worth. Participants in the

experiment will sign a contract stating that they will

not drive any time on Wednesday night. Live Drive
will be provided for those needing rides from th
experiment.

to be dedicated

Mrs. William L. Wilson of Lynchburg.

“Mrs. Watson’s magnificent gift
enhances W&L‘s position as an
importat research center for the study
of porcelain fromthe China trade,” said
Thomas V. Litzenburg, Jr. ’57, direc-
tor of the Reeves Centerfor research
and Exhibition of Porcelain and paint-
ings. ”Generations of students, schol-
ars and collectors will long benefit
from her collections and her benefac-
tion.”

The dedication ceremony will take
place at the Watson Pavilion at 1 p.m.,

 
 

g-tum Ph

 

Photo byBethany Smith, The Rin
W&L work-study students use these books to research porcelain in the Watson Pavilion

Saturday, Oct. 23. A. Stevens Miles}
‘51, rector of the University’s Board of
Trustees, and University President John
D. Wilson will speak at the dedication.
The ceremony will be moved to Lee
Chapel in the event of rain. Following
the dedication a special luncheon for
invited guests will be held at Evantl
Dining Hall.

Activities associated with the dedi-
cation begin at 2 p.m., Friday, Oct. 22,
withalecturetitled“China forthe West”
by Beverly M. Dubose Ill, ‘62 of At-
lanta. Dubose, a member of the Board
of Trustees, is an avid collector of.
Chinese export porcelain.

At 3:30 p.m. John K. Copelin and
Michael C. Nappa, architects with the
William Hall Partnership of New York,
designers of the building, will present
a lecture, “Palladian Architecture and
the Watson Pavilion”.

The principal lecture of the series.

will be given at 10:15 a.m., on Satur-
day, Oct 23, by William R. Sargeant,
curator of Asian Export Art at the
Peabody and Essex Museum at Salem,
Massachusetts. Sargeant will speak on

“Chinese Porcelain, Domestic and Ex- .

port”.

The final session before the dedica-
tion will be a panel discussion on “Un-
derstanding Asia: The Importance of
Cultural History”. Participants in the
discussion will be Professors Harold
C. Hill, Roger B. Jeans, Jr., Joan H.

O’Mara, and AnnT. Rogers. the mod- 9

erator will be Professor W. Lad Ses-
sions. All participants are members of
the Washington and Lee faculty.

All lectures and discussions will
take place in duPont Audittrium.

 

  

    

The Ringq-tum Phi, October 22, 1993

Dan Tipton, ’97, as Orestes and Heather Aussiker, '94, as a Electra, during rehesals for The Flies.

The Flies opens this Weekend

' .r_a
.

Ads.

Photo courtesy of The Lenfest Center

From Staff Reports

For this year’s fall production,
Washington and Lee’s Theatre Depart-
ment will present The Flies by the
renowned French existential play-
wright, Jean—Paul Sartre. In this play,
Sartre presents his view of the Greek
story of Orestes and his call to avenge
the murder of his father, Agamemnon.

Al Gordon, who is directing the
production, said he has long wanted to
produce a version of this story.

“Not only is it one of the most
popular sources of plot material in
western dramatic literature,” said pro-
fessor Gordon, “but it also has striking
relevance to modem-day civil strife in
such places as Bosnia and the Middle
East. Orestes’ dilemma when faced
with the intervention in the violent
cycle of feuding in his family reflects
the dilemma of outsiders facing today ’s
intemecine horrors.”

The story of the bloody downfall of
the house of Agamemnon begins when
Agamemnon, as Greek general, is
forced to sacrifice his daughter,
lphigenia, in preparation for the Trojan
War. in retribution for this act,
Agamemnon is killed by his wife,
Clytemnestra and her lover Aegisthus.
Aegisthus also holds a family grudge
against Agamemnon. Orestes is subse-
quently honor-bound to avenge his
father’s murder becoming involved in
what seems to be a never-ending fam-
ily feud of death and destruction.

The Flies picks up this compleix
story as the young Orestes (Dan Tiptqn
‘97), returns from a 15-year exile to his
home of Argos accompanied by his
tutor (Jason Schaffer). There he dis-
covers not only is the town festering in
its guilt over Agamemnon’s death, but
also that his sister Electra (Heather
Aussiker ‘94) is serving as a slave to
her own mother and step-father. ;

Shocked by the depressing state of
affaris but also repulsed by the pros-
pect of more violence, Orestes must
decide what action to take. His‘ deci-
sion affords Sartre a crucial opportu-
nity to demonstrate the existential phi-
losophy of free choice. How he coit-
fronts his mother Clytemnestra (Elldn
Dean ‘94) and deals with Aegisthils
(Mark Daughtrey ‘74), who is noiv
married to Clytemnestra, will" detet-
mine who he is. And to add to the
situation, all his actions are jealously
watched over by the God Zeus (Tom
Raisbeck) who seems to want to keep
the feud going. The result is a compel-
ling combination of Greek drama arid
French thought. I

The Flies willbe performed on O0-
tober 22, 23, 25, 26, and 30 at 8:00
p.m.; on October 24 and 30 at 2:00
p.m.; and on October 29 at 9:00 p.rI1.
Please note the change of time of tlie
October 29 performance originally
published in the season brochure. Indi-
vidual tickets are on sale now at tile
Lenfest Box Office (463-8000), frotn
Noon to 4:00 p.m. Monday throu
Friday and two hours prior to any pe -
fonnance.

Get More
Bang F or
Your Buck.

Advertise in the Phi.
For More information
call 464-4060

EDICATION/SYMPOSIUM

Symposium: Panel Discussion, “Understanding Asia: The Importance of Cultural History.”

' Carryout Availabl  _ 11 S. Jefferson St. W 16WAY3
 THE" *°heH>sAveme
.  SANDWICH SHOP [.&«gR_”;:”88c_f:9|:9l’87;
“Wild Grass” playing on Friday, Oct. 22 " Emﬂ;
I 463-2595

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22

. 2:00 pm, duPont Auditorium, Public Invited
Symposium: “China for the West,” Beverly M. DuBose III ’62, collector.

_ 3:30 pm, duPontAuditorium, Public Invited
Symposium: “Palladian Architecture and The Watson Pavilion,” John K.
Copelin and Michael C. Nappa, William Hall Partnership, New York.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23

_ 10:00 am, duPont Auditorium, Public Invited
Symposium: “Chinese Porcelain: Domestic and Export,” L
William R. Sargeant, curator, Peabody and Essex Museum.

' Noon, duPont Auditorium, Public Invited
1:00 pm, Watson Pavilion, Public Invited
Watson Pavilion DedicationCeremony.
3:00 - 5 :00 pm, Public Invited
Guided tours of the Watson Pavilion and the Reeves Center.

ATTENTION FRESHMEN!!!
Remember how important the overnight stay is in
choosing a college? If you didn’t spend the night,
don’t you wish you could have? The Admissions

office is looking for FRESHMEN

HOUSING HOSTS.

Apply before Nov. 1, Stop by our office for an
application.

, A ,7 , _g____,_A_,_,_;_,__,_W_________________,____,,_,,,___.__,.....___..__..__._.,_._..__.._...,_____._........___....._.._...._.,_.._., ,_-,------_‘r C//1'4.”/I/.’.//./_/4!!/4//MW/!W¢' ///.1/we/1/mwam--------

 

PAGE 4

 5‘ “
Phi Delt

 

   

File to

Phi Delt gets critical probation

In» from PHI DELT, Page 4

CA pattern of abusive, anti-social, or
ungentlemanly behavior, including persistent
violations of the University Alcohol Policy”

Phi Delt members came before the SAC
with a plan to improve their fraternity’s behav-
ror.

“We would increase chapter activities, do
more community service, and keep strict adher-
ence to fraternity standards,” Guice said. Guice
said the plan was an “attempt to reform our
current pattern of misbehavior.”

Associate Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy”

such as eliminating all damage to the fraternity
house, maintaining a perfect record on damage
reports, involving the house mother in frater-
nity activities, and involving the fraternity in
community service projects.

‘‘I think it’s a pretty sound aproach for
dealing with things,” Atkins said.

‘‘It’s the proper way to function in the sys-
tem and what being in a fraternity means,” he
added.

Guice said that he and Phi Delt Vice Presi-
dent Wilson Moore drafted the plan with help
from all the house officers, Dean Atkins, Phi
Delt faculty advisor Dr. Joseph Goldsten, and
the Phi Delt house corporation.

“We’re placing a strong disincentive on
behavior contrary to our goals,” Guice said.
Guice added that the people responsible for the
mess were punished by the Phi Delts. One was
kicked out of the fraternity, and three others
were placed on conduct probation for the re-
mainder of the term. Those three also were
given three weeks of social probation.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said that the Phi Delt’s house corpora-
tion had no plans to further punish the frater-
nity.

“Everyone understands the situation,” Guice
said.

“We just need to improve a little bit.”

Atkins said that Phi Delt’s plan includes goals

  

’93 Grads do well
in job market

to From GRADS, Page 1

York, Philadelphia, San Francisco and Wash-
ington, D.C. are the cities participating in the
job fairs this year.

“[The companies are] pleased with the qual-
ity [of W&L],” said Lorig.

Recruiting days for 1993-94 boast compa-
nies such as CNN, Mattel, Warner Brothers,
MTV, Aetna, JP Morgan, Hewlett-Packard and
Rolling Stone magazine, among many others.

In a tough economy, experience is key.

“Employers are becoming more and more
interested in seeing students who have had
internships,” said Lorig.

A growing number of W&L students are
becoming interested in internships.

   
    
 
    
    
   
  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 22, 099:

Interviews, however, still hold the vog: fo
being the biggest part of the job hunt to worr‘
about. Without a successful interview, grad 
ates won’t get a job.

‘‘It (the interview) is the way to get a job,
said Lorig.

Grade-point average and activities also F ;
ure intothe picture. Activities show com nie:
how students get along with people and wha
interests they have.

Hot jobs, according to the federal govern
ment, include those in health care, science an:
technology and consulting.

CD&P is optimistic about the graduates’ jol
searches.

“We’re seeing good jobs and good ofTers,’
said Lorig. “The job search is taking more time
Persistence is the key.”

 

I» from PLAYGROUND, Paget

“I hope the commitment of the adults
matches the enthusiasm of the children. All
we need now is money,” Dittman said.

The children were indeed enthusiastic,
and members of the Kid’s Committee wrote
and perfonned a song at the beginning of the
unveiling. _

‘‘I am amazed by this,” said sixth grader
Brandon Hintz. “This is exactly what Lex-
ington needs.”

His friends, twins Matt and Will Oliver,
agreed heartily.

“This is a dream come true to all the

Playground brings .
community together

 

children,” said Matt Oliver.

Third-grader Andrew Mullin said that
April 24 is his birthday.

“l’ve never done anything like this be-
fore,” Mullin said. “My favorite part is the
big castle and the maze.”

Other children were more reticent, but all
smiled and nodded when asked if they were
looking forward to the building of the pﬁk
and every child agreed that all the hard work
was worth it.

“This is going to bring Lexington to-
gether,” said Hintz.

“If this is coming to Lexington, who
knows what will come next?”

Hours: Mon.-Fri.
9-7

College Square, RT 11 N. Lexington 463-1605

We carry Matrix hair and skin care products, Paul Mitchell,
Nexxus, Bain deTerre and Rcdken hair&skin care products.

  

We serve Pizza
to a Full Italian

Reservations no longer
‘available for Parents Week-
end. Walk-
able, early or late dinner.

24 North Main Street
Lexington, VA

Dinner!

in space avail-

 

P‘ck-3.;...'s.».7‘s.;;”r§.'
-Jennportﬂogel llhelu
llourslion-Frl9-5sat9-Noon

 

Carry Out
Available
463-2800

110 W. Washington St.

  

 

FREE TRIPS AND MONEYII EXCELLENT I
Individuals and Student Organiza- EXTRA INCOME NOW! IX A
tions wanted to promote the Hottest V ENVELOPE SWFFING——$°0-$800-vorvw-k J _
Spring Break Destinations, call the F"'°""'°s"sf,:';,,_,,°,_, M \ getarlan " .
nation’s leader. Inter-Campus 137§CorIlVI|'IMAV'- E  ‘ "
Programs 1-800-327-6013. L °'°°"""’"'"°"”m° at‘ '3’ ~73‘
Gl‘0l1$pS & glubs , 1*‘ Iii" I
Raise up to 500 - 1500 in less
33I0n thanaweek. Plus Winatrip to INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
M1‘VSPI1'ngBreak‘94andget 3 u T L r-: R u N r v E R s 1 T Y
a FREE T-shirt just for calling. -
1-300-950-1039 N°““5h Y°“’Se1f , UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN C

S"Sa“SW“h“‘ fmunch 22222“’2**GREAT“BRFFAIN

Stephanie Camden Monday - Friday 

Bridgett Sensebaugh 11:30 to 3:30  I A 

Want a Beer?

The Peer Counselors and SAB invite
students to participate in a
controlled drinking experiment,
Wednesday Oct. 27 in the Pit.
The experiment begins at 7 p.m.

Date:
Location:

464-5800

IRELAND .
NEW ZEALAN D

Fully integrated study at British, Irish,
New Zealand and Australian universities

FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER ° FULLYEAR 0
INST EP ° SUMMER PROGRAM 0 INTERNSHIPS

Stud A r ad Inf rmation Sessi n
Representative:

 

For further Information please contact: Your Study Abroad Office on campus
or the Institute for Study Abroad. Butler University. 4600 Sunset Avenue.
Indianapolis. IN 46208. Tel: 317/283-9336 or l/800-368-6852 Ext. 9336,

 

- *4

Mike Roberts

Tues. Oct. 26

ll:00 - 1:30

Co-op Table (if sunny) Q
or University Ctr. Lobby

Horse Boarding

HAD A HOT our LATELY?’

Want it hot? We’ve got it. Saucy Meatball and hearty Steak &Cheese. Steamin’ hot subs on fresh»
baked bread with free fixin’s. If you're looking for a hot time, come to Subway.

Lazy Acres: 9 stall barn, new lighted
arena, excellent turnout, new fencing,
miles of trails, and conveniently located
4 miles from Rt. 11 South, 2 miles from
the Virginia Horse Center on 39 West,
across from Long's campgrounds. $225
per month includes stalls cleaned and . g I . -— v. . . ' - ;  ' V ~' » < - .
bedded, light daily grooming. turnout blanketing, feed, , I I - h ‘ . ‘ _~ g -g    ‘ ... 9
and water. Pasture board available at $100 per month I I A  I ' I I I ' 2 ' I I I
per horse. Riding lessons and horse training available
from qualified personnel. Call (703) 463-1636 and
leave a message.

 

Law Center

INVITING APPLICATIONS FOR FALL 1994

I CONVENIENT LOCATION
Huntington, Long Island campus
is easily reached by public or private

If you wish to receive admission
materials andlor arrange for a campus
visit, you are encouraged to contact:

BUY ONE REGULAR FOOTLONG HOT SUB, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FOR  ‘I

 

"IarOsAp:rAattli;nEVENlNG cusses  Law Center 503 E Nelson St Lexington VA 24450 463‘3322 I
Select either a Full-Time Day, 300 Nassau Road — »  -—  -  - -w -2 i -

    

Part-Time Day, or Part-Time Evening Huntington, New York 11743

  
  

   

 

I
I
I
I
Phone |
I
I
I

equal opportunity institution

schedule. I

I ACCREDITATION TOURO COLLEGE

r~°e:.w..°::::~:.:";:v... 1-~ (512)421-2244 -I

r e I .7. V '

Bgrp Association. JF’?}CC(:fsg',RG 1:" ext 314 I
L  an affirmative actionl I
—~:__ I

l_*Second footlong sub must be of equal or lesser price. One coupon pre customer per visit. Not good in cimbination with any other offer.J

 

 

‘Hie Ring-tum Phi October 22, 1993

_‘ From Staff Reports

The Virginia Festival of American Film will
begin its 1993 season next Thursday, Octoboer
28 in Charlottesville.

The focus of this years’s festival is “Film
Noir: Through a Lens Darkly,” the style of
ﬁlmaking made popular by the 1944 film
“lhuble Indemnity.” Festival programming
director Carolyn Corry described ﬁlm noir as
”a term applied to the shadowy films of the
1940’s and 50’s [conjuring] images of the femme
fatale, the hard-luck loser, the hard-boiled de-
tective and a fatalistic world.” Modern ﬁlms
which use film noir concepts include “Blade
Rﬁiner,” “Body Heat,” “Chinatown,” and “The
Grifters.”

The University of Virginia sponsored festi-
val consists of ﬁlm screenings, guest speakers
and academic discussion sessions.

Conﬁrmed guests at the festival‘ include
actors Robert Mitchum and Richard Widmark,
witers Tess Gallagher, Richard Price and
Donald Westlake, Weslayan University ﬁlm
studies cairleanine Basinger and Pulitzer—prize
winning ﬁlm critic Roger Ebert.

Mitchum and Widmark will discuss their
roles in the movies “Out of the Past” and “Night
and the City.”

After a screening of Robert Altman’s new
ﬁlm “Short Cuts,” Gallagher will discuss the
adaptation of short story to screenplay.

Price, Westlake and Basinger are scheduled
to participate in several of the post—screening
discussions based on their writings for or about
ﬁlm.

Ebert will host a three-day workshop focus-
ing on an analysis of “Sunset Boulevard.”

Previous festival’s have featured Robert
Altman, Julian Bond, Ossie Davis, Robert
Duvall, Gregory Peck, James Stewart, Horton

. Foote, Sidney Poitier and Jane Alexander.

The Advisory Board of the VFAF lists

S muel Goldwyn, Jr., Shirley MacLaine, Sissy

S acek, and L. Douglas Wilder as members.

' ' The VFAF marks its sixth year as the only.
-national ﬁlm festival sponsored by a major
university. Entertainment Weekly, a subsidiary
ofTime lnc., is co-sponsoring this years’ events.

   
 

m fest
mi:

In addition to its highly recognizable list of
guests, the VFAF has gained a national reputa-
tion for its scholarly approach to ﬁlm.

The screenings and discussions will be held
at UVa through October 31.

For more information call l-800—UVA-
FEST.

 

by Meriwether Nichols

Phi Contributing Writer

 

Melissa Etheridge’s latest work, Yes I Am,
will be a bit of a disappointment for those who
dislike the current trend of diversity for
diversity’s sake.

Many performers have given into pressure
to present a mixture of many different musical
styles on the same album for the sole purpose of
demonstrating their artistic ﬂexibility.

Unfortunately, Etheridge makes this mis-
take and includes some pieces on her album that
do nothing to showcase her beautiful, soulful
voice.

That’s not to say there aren’t some intense,
passionate songs on Yes I Am.

Etheridge really shines on a few pieces, but
like so many albums, this onelhas its share of
ﬁller songs, and bad freshman poetry. Perhaps .

i ’ she was afraid of releasing an unvaried, unin-

teresting piece of work.

Whatever her motivation, the result is a
handful of intense, moving ballads padded by
some weak attempts at pop music versions of
faster country blues.

The album opens with the kind of song
Etheridge does best. “I’m The Only One” fea-
tures the rich country blues guitar and raw,
wailing vocals she is known for. The lyrics
about desire and devotion are sung on top of a
slow, dragging, pulsing beat. At times, it sounds
like mainstream pop music, but the chorus
makes up for that slight weakness. Overall, it
highlights her ability as a singer and guitar
player quite well.

The second song does not fare so well. In
fact, it has no redeeming qualities.

Etheridge sounds like she is yelling out the

Eide departs fr

Singer sacrifices tried and true for stylistic diversity

lyrics on this piece. Perhaps that wouldn’t be so
bad if the lyrics were not so trite and uninterest-
ing. This is definitely a filler song.

‘_‘Come To My Window,” the third selec-
tion, is one of the better songs on the album.

An engaging percussive intro leads the lis-
tener into the full sound of several acoustic
guitars layered on top of each other, some
playing a rhythm line while the others play a
more melodic lead line.

“Silent Legacy,” while not as musically
interesting as some of her other songs, is an
impassioned and poignant description of the
pain and frustration she feels as a lesbian.
Fortunately, the song is not socially or politi-
cally didactic about the topic. It is a moving
piece that will pull at the heartstrings ofanyone
who has felt pressure to deny one’s feelings and
do what is socially acceptable. .

The next song is, without a doubt, the best on
the album. “l Will Never Be The Same” show-

,_ cases everything that Etheridge does best. Her
ﬁsigmple, movinglyrics and raw, yet somehow _

sweet ‘vocal style compliment the easy melody
to make the song truly graceful and disarming.

The rest of the songs are not terribly capti-
vating because they do not sound very original.
“Ruins” and the title track are performed well
and are decent musically.

“Ruins” has a great funk bass line and good
vocals, but the lyrics are a bit stale. The song
really smacks of the overused pop-psychology
of the late 80’s. Her account of her inability to

- love just does not sound very genuine or com-

pelling. Maybe this is because the same thing
has been said before so many other times.

“Yes I Am” is actually a good piece with
some interestingchord progressions and a sleepy
rhythm. However, it soundsjust like the Indigo
Girls—which is ﬁne ifyou are the lndigo Girls.

The remainder of the songs are not really
worth mentioning.

PAGE 5

1

 

They are full of cliches, weak poetry and
tiresome metaphors. Musically,,they are boring
as well.

It is a shame that Etheridge does not stick to
what she does best — writing slow folk/coun-
try/blues songs that communicate her experi-
ences with desire and passion.

The world could always use another torch
song, but hackneyed pop songs are a dime a
dozen.

Essentially, this album is good enough to
borrow from a die-hard fan to tape a few songs
off of it for a good mix tape.

Safety plus

(0)

PEER
COUNSELORS’
CORNER

Peer Counselors’ Corner is
written by members of
Washington and Lee’s Peer
Counseling Program. Columns
will appear periodically covering a
variety of issues important
to the W&L community.

Questions about the column
topics or the Peer Counseling

~ the author of the column.

Program should be directed to ﬂ

l ,   ,

awareness

By CARLIN JONES
Special to the Phi

According to many people in our commu-
nity, alcohol abuse is part of the lifestyle at
W&L. Everyone has a story about them-
selves or their friends that is an account of
abusive drinking. To some, this is the way
that it should be for college students. To
most, the centralization of alcohol abuse in
our campus life is scary.

Alcohol Awareness Week is a time to
address one on the greatest concerns on this
campus. W&L students are certainly aware
of alcohol. Many of the social problems on
our campus in some way can be traced back
to the abuse of alcohol. It leads to bruised
egos and mixed signals, and often unhappi-
ness.

This is not to say that the use of alcohol
should be avoided at all costs, but instead the
abuse of alcohol should be avoided. The
intent behind Alcohol Awareness Week is
not to teach students to abstain from the use
of alcohol, but instead to provide the alterna-
tive of responsible drinking.

From the time that we arrive as freshman
until Graduation Day, we are surrounded by
alcohol abuse. It is an integral, and unfortu-
nate pan of this campus. Very few people
can truly say that they have never abused
alcohol after four years here.

Some try to rationalize their abuse: “l
don’t do it very often” or “l’ve never been
arrested” or ‘‘I can hold my booze”. The truth
is that abuse doesn’t necessarily mean drink-
ing until you pass out every weekend and on
Wednesdays. Abuse is not only a history of
irresponsible drinking, but also drinking too
much at any given time. Abusive drinking
can be one night or an entire lifetime.

According to the American Medical’As—
sociation deﬁnition ofbinge drinking (five or

is needed

more drinks in one evening), W&L has a real
problem.

Education alone will not stop the alcohol
abuse on our campus, but it is important to be
aware of the risks involved. Many students
come here as freshman with little drinking
experience, and quickly find that abuse is
easy, easier than responsible drinking. Un-
fortunately, many freshman are not aware of
the upperclassmen that choose not to drink.
Freshman are especially subject to peer pres-
sure.

Eventually most students wi1l‘have ascary
evening, and try to cut back. For some this is
a trip to the hospital, and for others it is
waking up and having no idea what happened
the night before. Some never learn respon-
sible drinking habits while they are here.
Hopefullythey willacquirethose habitssome-
where else, but in some cases they never learn
them.

Drinking irresponsibly contributes to sta-
tistics like the incidence of driving under the
influence by W&L students. Those statistics
are from the lives of real people like Blake
Comer and Ashley Scarsborough. His irre-
sponsible behavior took her life.

But, it isn’t isolated to the cases that make
the front page of the Phi. On an individual
level, it effects the things we take for granted,
like our memory. Alcohol abuse effects our
relationships, as well as academic perfor-
mance. Abuse does not touchjust one area of
our lives, it is all-encompassing.

This column is not intended to preach
against the evils of consuming alcohol. The
peer counselors are certainly not chosen for
their desire to prohibit the consumption of
alcohol by W&L students. In fact, most of us
choose to drink at least occasionally. We are
committed to educating the campus about the
effects of abuse, and helping students deal
with the ramifications of abuse. We are
available to talk, and help if you decide that
you need someone to listen.

 

 

 

W&LlFE

 

    

The Ring-tum Phi October 22,1993

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

O

    
      
 

O“ t|'I¢ mark by Mark Parisi

  
   

24 MARK ﬁLrzi-,’v/
I cim Ynounc mm. Scmcu. Inc /Mug¢r1 17 /“T
All «gnu reuma /I / , r / _
1%; _
\

 

—mA1"45 11: VERYGQDD. ..

     
    

I0 W”

@1993 Tu
All Rtg

MM l Services, Inc
Ruse

  
      
 
 

I'LL BE RIGHT BALK...

  
    

 

  
    
 
  

wHY CAN'T THEY CARRY
.wAl-LET4 LIKE (J9... '

      
  

  

  
    

  

    

 

 

AKLA, DON'T 0_H PLEAQE
KEEP COOPERATING AND LEAYFE H125, “K5 O0N'T LEAVE ME
YOURBEER will-BE SAFE-- -L 1‘ -
We pluggere will spend 20 bucks 12) win 
a. two-clollarrtecldy bear. 
Colonnade Crossword -“
ACROSS
1 Dwindle
6 Snatch

10 Breakfast food

14 Banishment ‘NE KEEP ‘WE

15 Hayseed

16 Home oi song ‘ R TQRN QGNAL  ‘.-

17 Cables , ON N,\_ Dl>§{ _ .. i '

18 Indian or Peru ‘ ' ‘ A- . , _ 7 z;
19 Meal for Dobbin l>~ND TNL6, - - S , ~ « _ i ,
20 Kind of stone i »-A .; W ‘ , , ‘ '
22 Shangri-la H LL 36 ‘WE / /*7 ‘ 1  l " '

24 Cluckers Q LEFT 5 . ,4 .,.$\, , » i/ /

25 Branch ' "'  1/; 1 ; “ “' ‘_.

26 Seize control 0 ...._... L‘: , ’ _

29 Ecvsetgiéilze  L2. : 3 y,//  ‘vi L.-;:v_—-__: WE QR  \N\LL BE

—-—-—z-.:-—-' =‘—'-'”‘' V’ '/7 4.’  ‘ 
33 "— You Glad  I”  ”'/’/ ‘ ‘- 3 _._f~ M FWNY 0‘: ‘(O13 TOVPX
You're You?" ' ' i ”‘ ‘ ‘ ' ‘ '
34 Skill ‘
35 Collection of
anecdotes
36 Thrash CLOSER“,
37 N n-clerical
pica. CLOSER.“

38 Sour

39 Tavern

40 gerlgassion @139: ilg'f':K‘)stJ%B° 31311;: Services. Inc. 10/22/93

41 Greek island 9 | ed

42 Person with a 8 Alphabet run Last week S puzzle S0 V

valid will 9 Adorn

44 Hear 10 Flowers

45 Bad 11 Harvest

46 Nevada city 12 Against

47 Hat 13 Space org.

50 lncivility 21 Sign

54 Surrounded by 23 Try

55 Atop 25 Bed boards

57 Cecil B. De— 26 Custom

58 Baseball team 27 Dunne or Castle

59 Oat 28 Denims

60 Something of 29 Thorn MORE VIOLENCE

value 30 Phase 05,19 MAYHEM-
61 Headliner 31 Wed IVE HAD I11!
62 ‘Sheep 32 Burdened
_ 63 Seethes 34 Noel g
g 37 Freedom from I
oovvn,“   restraint‘ * V
1 cburchliencnes 3e Firebug , I
3:92:55’. 22$.::::.,. = .~ 1
e p. e. . -_ ~ -
4 Circus 43 Gentle , . ‘ I// , ' - , ,,. I, ,'§
performer 44 Guided 48 Leave out 51 Etillnerwise _ ‘- '. , /_l_ /41” ,' ’, 14/’ V J ’,,l,,/,:/,
' ‘ ' ' -  r » / ~' ’..‘, ,' "1-/r .»’ ,
22:52:“ 46§m:lri"aﬁ:‘ot|itters :3S:l¥?;“;’$ 5”" 23623:‘...    )r-  ,1
7 Ladder part 47 Forbids ‘ play 56 Internee: abbr. " .  5_-._.  A \.i . ,

F W

261-7292
2275 BeediAvc., Bucna Vista - (Behind Pizza Hut)

$1.50 ANY SHOW
Now Showing
Snow White
Rated G

Sat. 10:30 a.m., 12:30 & 2:30 p.m.
Sun. 12:30 & 2:30 p.m.

 Restaurant

at LEE Ill Truck Stop

bVL9}'Vl.a/

   

BREAKFAST

 

 The SeRc;;:(ti garden
Friday & Saturday Nights Sat. & Sun. 4:40 p.m.
11 .m. to 4 a.m. M . N
Sundaylras 9 a m to 2 p m - .‘{a‘°da’?‘?y
‘ ' ' ' Showing Daily at 7:00 & 9:15 p.m.

Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 453.3473

“All You Can Eat”
BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

‘$3.00 OF POPCORN $3.001

r l'_..,

 

      

 

E

New Shipment of T-Shirts

Check out our Ren & Stimgy‘, Looney Tunes - “Locker Room,”
& Torc _ ‘and Twang.”

New Concert Shirts — Cyprus Hill, Blind Melon, and Pearl Jam.
(0c-tober Spec-ials
$2.00 off all CDs, $1.00 off all Cassettes. Cassingles 3/$9.50
, All Horror movies only 99¢. 1

 

Plus, our huge selection of T-shirts, including Marval “Comic Images” on
sale for only $8.99 during October.

Purchased $10 worth of trading cards a_nd/or comics & play “Quick Draw”
for a chance to win great prizes.

Stonewall S uare Shopping Center
qLexin ton
463-9 00

 

GROUPS! 4

CLUBS!
Raise up to $500 to
$1500 in less than a

week. Plus win a trip to
Mtv Spring Break ‘94
and get a FREE T-shirt

just for calling.

1-800-950-1039 ext. 65

Valley

7/Ede’?/z&:e

HARDWARE STORES 8’

   

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

If you wantto be the kind of leader that individuals look
up to, you should take a good look at the Marine Corps.
We'll develop your physical and mental strengths so you
can set the kind ofexample others will wantto follow.

For more information about becoming an officer of
Marines, contact the individual below

.1 ;’~"

For more information on Officer Programs, please see Captain
Graham at the University Center onOCtober 27, from 11:00 a.m.
to 1:00 p.m. or call 1-800-542-5851 in \/A or collect (703)387-1942.

 

  To be up to date on the
  news of L exington and  
W&L, subscribe to    
    the Phi.    

And students, your    
parents will appreciate it
.   if you finally get them
that subscription        ey've 
- been nagging you for all
'   term.      

It 's just 3 0 bucks.

To Subscribe,

Call 462-4060

 

PAGE 8

    

Ellie ‘tlting-tum lﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Eenie, meenie,
miney, mo

The brothers of Phi Delta Theta have been on
critical probation for a week now. The critical
probation is the result of what boils down to a very
messy food fight. —

Since the beginning of the month, the Phi Delts and
other students have been wondering what would
happen to the fraternity. But anyone who tried to
guess what kind of punishment Phi Delt would re-
ceive from the Student Affairs Committee probably
came up wrong.

Based on SAC’s track record the last few years, it ’s
anyone’s guess what kind of punishment a fraternity
will receive when it goes before SAC. You have to
feel a little sympathy for any organization that must
defend itself to SAC, even though they had to do
something wrong to be there. It must be scary to go
before the group that has the power to kick your
fraternity off campus with no idea of what to expect.

About two years ago SAC put Delta Tau Delta on
suspension for five years, after the Delts damaged
their unrenovated house. President Wilson stepped
in, reduced the suspension and left Delt with a chance
of becoming a healthy fraternity. Last May, SAC
decided to let Beta Theta Pi and their house corpora-
tion take care of any necessary punishment after
several incidents at Beta — including the destruction
of furniture. Beta’s renaissance had already been
completed. Now there is Phi Delt. They have to deal
with critical probation for the rest of the year.

The Phi Delts are probably a little relieved, while
still concerned. Another serious mistake and they
could be suspended or expelled. The Question is:
What constitutes another serious mistake? Only SAC
knows.

Is what Delt did really that much worse than what
Phi Delt or Beta did? In SAC’s eyes it was the
difference between murder and shop-lifting. But
when you get right down to it, all three fraternities
showed-total disregard..for«their houses.

All of this is not to say Beta or Phi Delt deserved
to be suspended from campus. A fraternity system
where the houses fear the guillotine is not a healthy
one. But a system that cannot dole out consistent
punishments for similar mistakes is also not healthy.

SAC’s latest decision just confuses students as to
what the University considers unacceptable behav-
ior. Damage an unrenovated house and SAC will
suspend your fraternity for five years. Damage brand
new furniture and other parts of a renovated house
and SAC will let your house corporation take care of
it. Cover your walls in shaving cream and newspa-
pers and SAC will watch you closely for a year.

The only pattern here is there isn’t one.

Quote of the Week:

“ Have you discovered any difference between
men and women?”

“I think I have.”

—— Dean Howison posing a question to Alcohol
Awareness Week speaker Scott Swartzwelder

OPINION

  
       

I'LL Four. A DOCILE
LITTLE RABBI-i’ our
OF My HM‘!

  

»n:ict<,

  

0
The Riﬂq-tum Phl, October 22, 1993

PC president could hurt W&L

Dear Members of the Board of Trustees:

During your October meeting you will very likely
discuss the search for a replacement for retiring Presi-
dent Wilson. I urge you to take special care to ensure
the new president will be respectful of Washington
and Lee’s traditions, particularly its academic excel-
lence and reverence for
honor.While I am conﬁ-
dent that you have from

They did not seem to educate their students as much
as they politicized them.

The anti—traditional and PC-driven spirit of
Carleton, I found, is typical of colleges. Many have
even worse records. Administrations at many col-
leges have attacked and have even banned fratemi-

ties. When an institution under-
takes such action, it is very diffi-
cult to believe its claims to sup-

 

the outset had this first and port a student’s decisions. The
foremost amongst yourcri- _ ~ ANDREW thought of attending an institu-
teria, what I have seen of  " tion that does not trust its stu-
other colleges and the path  _ OLMEM, dents enough to allow them to
theirpresidents havetaken ’ __ 996 participate in fraternities surely
them compels me to be a ‘  is repellent to thosefamiliarwith
little more concerned. ‘ Washington and Lee’s commu-
I, like most Washing— nity.

ton and Lee students, came

here because W&L was unlike other schools. Every
other school I considered had ﬁne academic records
similar to Washington and Lee’s, but the communi-
ties present at these schools could not be further from
Washington and Lee’s. For example, Carleton Col-
lege is often considered the pinnacle of liberal arts
colleges. Yet any fine academic traditions which it

possesses are completely submerged .l.)_yV2{__t3£V)ull}Cl’: -f H p H“ _
  j... ..-. ,.; wh('),sp—ea]‘(s-a

productive community. ,

On my visit to its campus I found a complete
absence of friendliness or respect. The students formed
their own cliques, as all students do at every college.
What was so disturbing though was the fact that there
was no common bond or traditions to bring them
together. Meeting a fellow classmate at Carleton
would be no different from meeting a student from
another college. The only common trait found in the
students was their adherence, either from fear or
respect, to political correctness. I found it hard to
believe this community so infiltrated with PC could
actually foster liberal education.

Even more disturbing than the student body was
the behavior of many of Carleton’s professors. The
politically correct atmosphere of the campus radiated
directly from the “teachings” of PC sympathizing
professors. The course catalogue was filled with classes
formed around professors’ own political crusades.

The incident earlier this

year at the University of Pennsylvania where a stu-
dent was almost expelled for calling some students
“water buffaloes” illuminates another troubling prob-
lem on many college campuses: speech codes. Free
speech in a politically correct school is no longer
considered a requirement for liberal education. In-
stead of; allowing students to find truth, colleges
impose what tlje considertruth pnthem.~Any'student
rryzhing counter to‘theii“poIi'tically7 cor-
rectdoétrines, even as ‘ ‘ - '5 ‘
trite as “water buffa-

against traditions and towards political correctness.
Students come to Washinton and Lee for preciselyo
this reason. They seek to be part of community built
on honor, traditions and respect. They aspire to
become educated, not indoctrinated, and feel free to
converse and even become friends with their pro-
fessors.

Yet, despite its appearance today, Washington
and Lee could easily fall victim to the politicallyo
correct orthodoxy. The presidents of too many
schools have allowed, either by not acting to stop or
actively promoting, political correctness to domi-
nate their institutions.

It is of paramount importance for the preserva-
tion of Washington and Lee that our next president
openly reject the politically correct ideology. It has.
preserved its unique position among liberal arts
colleges for generations, it would be a tragedy to
see the new president make it just another ordinary
PC saturated college. -

Selecting an individual already familiar with
Washington and Lee is the best guarantee the new
president will not abandon Washington and Lee’s
heritage. The more one experiences Washington‘
and Lee’s community, the more one appreciates it.
Ideally the next president can give Washington and

F'I3éé~'a reviv'aI"of its tradition. After a decade of

successful faculty im-
provements, Wash-

loes,” pays a price,
often expulsion.
Schools that em-
body the radical po-
litically correct
dogma, like Carleton
College and the Uni-
versity of Pennsylva-

It is of paramount impor-
tance for the preservation of
Washington and Lee that our
next president openly reject the
politically correct ideology.

ington and Lee would
very much welcom
a president dedicated
to preserving its heri-
tage.

Also, I urge you to
consider students’
views as you search

nia, have become in-
stitutions most Wash-
ington and Lee students would rather not attend.
Students who want a liberal arts education prefer to
avoid institutions which pursue the politically correct
and neglect legitimate education.

Fortunately, Washington and Lee has remained,
for the most part, immune to the dangerous trend

for a new president.‘
Administrators, fac-
ulty, and alumni will always exert their inﬂuence on
the selection of a new President, but students’ ideas
can easily be overlooked and unheard. Please take
time to find out what students would most like in a
president; after all it is the future of their education
you are deciding. g

on ‘i'!?i1tg-tum rim

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

A11 Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent. '

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Columns, letters, and “My
Views" do not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

Wake up to admissions reality

The title of a recent column in this
space was, “University stands at cross-
roads.” I quite agree with that state-
ment. The two roads before us could
not be more different.

Many believe that we at Washing-
ton and Lee must live our future as we
have lived our past. They believe the
traditions and history of W&L are the

with equal or superior academic quali-
fications are denied acceptance to
Washington and Lee, because 20 per-
cent of each year’s freshman class is
reserved exclusively for men. When
questioned about this policy, the ad-
missions staff give what has become
their stock response, “We are simply
following the directive of the Board of

 

most important Trustees.”
things to keep Well then,
in mind when perhaps it is
considering time forthe
new policies. I Board to re-
believe we PATRICK consider its
must follow our MCDERMO[T, directive.

university’s , The rea-
motto, “Not 94 soning be-
Unmindful of hind the 60/
the Future,” 40 split has
when deter- alwaysbeen
mining our di- A that to

rection. We must always remember the
history of our institution, but we must
never allow that history to prevent the
university from moving forward.

In 1985, President Wilson and the
Board of Trustees initiated coeduca-
tion at Washington and Lee. At that
time, the Trustees decided to set a maxi-
mum ratio of 60 percent male and 40
percent female. This is the ratio we are
at today. and the Trustess seem intent
on maintaining those numbers.

They are unmoved by the fact that
this is a blatant violation of the state-
ment appearing on the university’s ad-
missions application. That statement
reads, “Washington and Lee Univer-
sity does not discriminate on the basis
of race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, age, etc.” In other words, the same
admissions office that boasts about the
Honor System in every one of its bro-
chures was ordered by the Trustees to
lie to prospective students on their ap-
plications.

The simple fact is the University
does discriminate against female ap-
plicants once the 40 percent quota has
been ﬁlled. This means that women

change the statistics any further would
be to radically alter the traditional char-
acter of the university. In other words,
some of the fraternities would be forced
to close down if the male ratio were to
drop below 60 percent. It is generally
believed if the university were to make
its admissions policy “gender blind,”
the ratio of men to women would most
likely reverse to 60 percent female and

40 percent male. This would mean 20 _

percent fewer men would be rushing
and pledging the 16 on-campusjrater-i
nities. That is something the Trustees
and the administration desperately want
to avoid in the midst ofa $127 million
Capital Campaign. They know alumni
tend to look rather unfavorably upon
their fraternities closing down, and in
turn, they give less money to the school.

Before going any further, I think it
is important to remember the tireless
efforts of many members of the Board

and the administration are all meant for '

our benefit and the beneﬁt of those
who will follow us. Without their
dedication, this university would not
be the nationally ranked institution it is
today. We owe them a tremendous

debt of gratitude for the leadership they
have shown throughout a time of great
difficulty. However, their dedication
to W&L does not make them infallible
and I believe they have made an error
in judgement here.

It is wrong for the university to be
held captive by its alumni. It is ludi-
crous for anyone to expect the univer-
sity _to maintain the same number of
fraternities now as we had when this
was an all-male institution. It is time
our alumni “wake up” to the fact we
now have 40 percent fewer men then
when they were students here. By de-
manding we not lose any fraternities in
the process of coeducation, our alumni
force the houses to place enormous
pressure on each entering class of fresh-
man. They must mantain an 80 to 90
percent pledge rate or they are in dan-
ger of losing houses. There simply
aren’t enough freshmen to go around.
So if we were to change the admissions
policy, and the number of freshman
men suddenly
dropped by 20

who were dragged kicking and scream’
ing into coeducation, now see a univer-
sity which far surpasses what existed in
1985. The fact is, in the United States
today, women show higher academic
standards than men. They are one of
the_ major reasons W&L ranks high]
on the lists of top liberal arts colleges
like that published by U.S. News and
World Reports. If it were not for the
women on this campus, W&L would
be nothing more than another medio-
cre liberal arts college, instead of 20th
in the nation. Washington and Lee
should continue its rise on that list, bu?
that’s not going to happen until we
equalize our admissions policy and
reach our true academic potential.
This issue is not about whether one
supports fraternities. The greek system
is, has been, and always will be an
integral part of the Washington ant!
Lee tradition. No one can deny that.
What we must decide is whether we
wish the academic potential of our in-
stitution to be
controlled by an

Percent» ‘W6 aspect of its so-
would certainly T ““‘‘Z—. . cial life. Like-Q
see the end ofa he same admissions wise, the c,P,_'
{$“tVl_f]ra*¢mi:i;§- I office that boasts about tal Carnilmign is
I 6 IS - essentia to en-
Wonk, be ,,,_ the Honor System in we the ﬁnam
ggettlgjble. bit every one of its bro- cial stability of
S OH not 6 ‘ the universit
thepﬁmarymw chures, was ordered by me the nexyt.
iivaiion for the Trustees to lie to c..,,,.,,,y_ what

maintaining a
flawed admis-
sions policy.

prospective students on we
their applications.

should
avoid is sacri-
ficing the aca-

The Trust-
ees and the ad-
ministration are
right to expect a drop in alumni gifts if
fraternities close, just as they wereright
to expect a drop in giving when coedu-
cation ﬁrst began. However, this drop
would not be permanent. After all,
W&L is now succeeding in raising

more money than ever before. This is_

only possible because all those_alumni

demic stan-

dards of the in-
stitution while in the process of raisin
money for its future. We must admit’
students based on their ability to live
up to the standards set by the founders -
of this great university. We must real-
ize while the era of the W&L Gentle-
man may be ending, a new generation
of Washington and Lee Leaders is
waiting to begin. ’ » . ~ '

 

 

oThe Ring-tum Phi, October 22, 1993

Spos’ SPACE
, Tom Hespos

Greetings, loyal readers. I have
been anxiously awaiting the day when
I could write about this week’s topic
without fear of retaliation from the
parties involved. This week, we will
discuss (drumroll, please)... on-cam-
pus jobs.

Last week, Spos was fortunate
enough to have ﬁnally secured a job
with the Washington and Lee Snack
Bar. Admittedly, making sandwiches
‘for the W&L populace may not be the
most glamorous of jobs, but we’ll see

‘who will be drinking Meister Brau on
the weekends and who will be drinking
Corona with lime.

Searching for an on—campus job
usually ranks right up there with do-it-
yourself nose jobs in terms of painful-
ness. Trust me —— Spos can relate

§everal instances where a job search
has brought him extremely close to
wanton violence, especially when he
has to deal with the schmucks over at
the ﬁnancial aid ofﬁce. (You don’t
know how long I have been waiting to
say that—— boy, it feels good.)
. Participating in the college work-
study program at W&L is the path most
W&L students take toward getting an
on-campus job. Most aren’t lucky
enough to survive the journey down
this long and arduous path. Those that
do survive, however, are given such
ggh-level titles as Assistant Associate
og Crap Scooper or Associate Assis-

tant Canine Feces Collector, and are
sent forth from the ﬁnancial aid office
with pooper-scooper in hand. Of
course, some are lucky enough to se-
cure jobs in the library or whatnot, but
most work-study participants end up
quitting after a week or so. Maybe the
people at ﬁnancial aid throw giant,
private keg parties with the money.

As you might have guessed, Direc-
tor of Financial Aid John DeCourcy
and the Sposmeister do not get along.
Mr. DeCourcy is living proof of Spos
Postulate #137 which states that the
intelligence of a departmental director
is inversely

sonably intel-

ligent being,

capable of ex-

periencing human emotion and logical
thought. Now, however, after several
years of exposure to large sums of
money, DeCourcy has but four words
in his vocabulary: “cut,” “deny,”
“blame,” and “lunch.”

My father and I quickly found out
about Mr. DeCourcy’s vocabulary this
summer, when we received a letter in
the mail from ﬁnancial aid, describing
the aid that Spos had been awarded for
the coming school year. Realizing that

 

the College Work-Study Program was
omitted from the list, Dad called ﬁnan-
cial aid for an explanation. DeCourcy,
apparently unaware that Dad is an ex-
Green Bay Packer of enormous bodily
dimensions, rang off a stream of harsh
sentences (composed entirely of the
aforementioned words) in Dad’s ear
before rudely hanging up on him. By
the way, John, if you’re reading this,
Dad has expressed that he is “looking
forward to Parent’s Weekend,” and he

hopes to see you soon.
Equally problematic is Kim Ruscio.
As an assistant ﬁnancial aid ofﬁcer,
Ruscio often

proportiohalto. finds herself
tlhe sizte of tthq Blezgiing up
eparmena y e ourcy’s
budget. May I gimpg glrvmlgfe 1}‘-. ,{5.,,m mess. Addition-
also mention «tr ' ally, she is re-
’ that it is very ' sponsible for
possible, in writing memos
fact probable, and keeping the
that DeCourcy bureaucracy to-
wasoncearea- gether. An ex-

ample follows:
MEMO
To: Friends,
relatives and acquaintances
From: Kim Ruscio, Assistant, Fi-
nancial Aid
Re: Keg Party
To celebrate the huge reduction in
scholarship monies this year, I will
host the first of several keg parties at
my home on November 11 at 9 p.m.
Hope you can make it!
Obviously, one can try to get an on-
campus job, but there are strong forces
working against it. Try getting a job in

OPINION

-Spos takes on financial aid office  

the Co-op or in town.

Another option is getting a job do-
ing research with a professor in one of
the science departments. Several of
Spos’ fraternity brothers have taken
advantage of these awesome opportu-
nities. lnstead of making sandwiches
like your average harmless food ser-
vice employee, these research assis-
tants usually end up making home-
made hydrogen bombs or cloning
deadly viruses, all for the sake of sci-
ence. Mister Wizard would be proud.

For example, Spos’ good friend
Alex, who works with Professor Akins,
would come home from work with a
dazed expression, thus arousing curi-
osity:

Spos: Hey, Alex, what did you do in
research today?

Alex: Well... we ran a peanut butter
and jelly sandwich through the centri-
fuge/ positron collider/ laser salad
maker, and it got transmuted into a
giant woolly sloth, which ate three
department secretaries. Anyone got a
beer?

Spos: Have several.

Another option is to get a job in
town, which is both complex and nerve-
wracking, so I ’ll spare you the details.
As for me, I’ll see you in the Co-op.
And don’t ask me to make you a turkey
club sandwich. They’re hard to make
and I usually screw it up, in which case
bacon, turkey and other sandwich ma-
terials end up all over the ﬂoor. This
means I have to start all over, unless
you’re Richard Weaver, in which case
you get the dirty sandwich anyway.

Until next week...

Political incorrectness goes too far

MY VIEW

being opposed to abortion, afﬁrmative action, diver-
sity, multiculturalism, and the idea of sexual harass-
ment. James K. Kilpatrick, former editor of The
Richmond Times-Dispatch, claims it would have been

Michael Hewlett

' When I applied to this university, I remember
writing an essay attacking the idea of political correct-
ness as a hindrance to free speech. I believed strongly
the defense of free speech, no matter how offensive,
is necessary to ensure a democratic society. As an
aspiring journalist, I still believe in free speech, but
this business of political incorrectness has begun to

Either me.

Whenever someone talks about multiculturalism
on diversity. an.vu1tra.°.<?r!S.<*1r.V.%.1ti.‘!<=;. «in,vari.al>.1y~an. an-
gry, persecutedwhite male, Rush Limbaugh-wannabe,
yells “politically correct” and proceeds to give his
obviously superior politically incorrect opinion. In-
creasingly, political correctness, which started as an
ztademic movement, has become a tool which con-
servatives use to shove their ideas down everyone

else’s throats. .

What used to be an attack on the limiting of free
speech has now turned into an attack on free speech.
Being politically correct now means being as politi-
cally incorrect as possible. And what does being
mlitically incorrect mean these days? Well, it means

criticized President
Clinton for being politi-
cally correct when he
nominated Lani Guinier
to the post of deputy at-
torney general for the
Civil Rights division of
,,,the._ Justice Department.
Yet, Clintonrproved him-
self to be true to the po-
litical correctness doc-
trine when he unceremo-
niously dumped Guinier
before she could defend

too politically incorrect for President Clinton to have
nominated a white male for the Supreme Court, even
though there are only two women and one black male
on the court — the rest are white males. Conservatives

herself. Senator Carol Mosely Braun found herself
castigated as being politically correct —— even racist
— when she attacked the Confederate ﬂag.

I have nothing against the free discourse of ideas in
a free and democratic society. But there seems to be
a thin line between being politically incorrect and

being racist. The bottom line is even in a free
society people should not tolerate racial or sexual
intolerance. Yet, some ultraconservatives use “po-
litical incorrectness” as a way to hide behind their
racism. They think it’s okay to be racist or sexist -
just as long as they are not politically correct. But
it’s never okay to judge someone on the basis of
their skin color or gender. lt’s not even safe to

nominate anyone ei-
ther non-white or fe-
male without the label

I have nothing against the
free discourse of ideas in a free
I and democratic society. But
 f,theréisee’n‘is.'to be ‘a thin ’line*
between being politically incor-

rect and being racist.

of political correctness
being stamped on it.
The solution comes
when we start to rec-
ognize political cor-
rectness when it oc-
curs, and not when we
simply disagree with
someone’s opinion.

To all members of the University com-
munity:
The Coeducation Review Commit-

tee has been charged by President Wil- -

son with seeking answers to the follow-
igg questions:

Does the environment of our class-
rooms, labs, student government, Greek
organizations, departmental and admin-
istrative ofﬁces, and on our playing
fields, in our dormitories, student clubs

and organizations promote the high-
est possibilities for the development
of our students and faculty?

Have we succeeded in creating for
our women members a sense of own-
ership in this community that rivals
the way men feel about W&L; are
women ableto think of W&Lassome-
thing they possess equally with men?

One way we are proceeding with
this task is to ask any staff members,

faculty member, students and alumni
who have information, anecdotes, sug-
gestions, observations of problem areas
(or solutions!) to send your comments
to the committee.

Our ﬁnal report hopes to include
issues pertinent to the entire commu-
nity — staff members, faculty, and ad-
ministrators, and students.

We are interested in hearing about
the successes and failures that you be-

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Frarnptom

VVhat’s your favorite Way to procrastinate?

 

TALKBACK

 

My opinions cannotbe
dismissed as being po-

litically correct becausethey represent my thoughts,
my feelings, and my beliefs. If you don‘t like my
opinions, then tell me why you disagree with me.
Forget about whether l’m politically correct or
incorrect. Worry about whether I’m on the right
track or not. Maybe then we’ll get somewhere.

LETTERS

I . Coeducation Review Committee seeks university input for report

lieve have occurred over the last 9
years.

Yourcomments need not by signed,
but if you would like to meet with a
member of the committee, or have
your comments followed up in some
way, it would be helpful to know how
to contact you for more information.
All comments will be kept conﬁden-
tial. Please feel free to send comments
to 2

Writing Center

The Writing Center is now open
for Fall Term on Sundays through
Thursdays from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m.
in Payne 2B. This year there are
student writing tutors majoring or
double-majoring in Biology, Eco-
nomics, English, German, History,
Mathematics, Philosophy, Politics,
and Theater. Students who want
help with writing projects of any
kind are encouraged to sign up on a
sheet outside the door or to just stop

‘ by for an individual conference with
a writing tutor.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum will present
“An International Perspective on
Women” this Sunday, October 24,
at 6:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women’s Center. All women and
men are invited to participate.

Pre-Law

The Blue Ridge Pre-Law Forum
will be held from 1:00-5:00 p.m. on
Wednesday, October 27 in th Uni-
versity Center. Representatives
from law schools and the Kaplan
Center will be available to answer
questions about their law schools.
All students are invited to attend.
Call extension 8595 if you have any
questions.

Retreat

Episcopal students interested in
attending a conference/retreat en-
titled “Making God a Partner in
Decision Making” the weekend of
November 5-7 at Shrivemont Con-
ference Center should contact Bar-
bara Taylor at Robert E. Lee Memo-
rial Church, 463-4981. There is a
$20 registration fee.

 

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

PAGE 9

Gap party

Bridge the Gap party for seniors
and law students this Friday from
4:00-7:00 p.m. at the Law School
field (or the Pavilion if it rains).
Come by for subs, beer, and
Wildgrass.

Flu

Inﬂuenza vaccine for 1993-94 is
now available in the Student Health
Center for a minimal charge. The
vaccine should prevent illness with
inﬂuenza during the ﬂue season
December through March. All stu-
dents are encouraged to receive it
now.

Kafka

The Film Society will present
Kafka (USA, 1991) on Friday, Oct.
29 and Saturday, Oct. 30 in the
Troubadour Theater’ at 8:05 p.m.
There is no charge for admission.

Debate

Phyllis Schlaﬂy, a pioneer of
American conservatism, and Jane
Benshoof, a leading litigator and
legal expert on reproductive rights,
will debate the topic of abortion on
Tuesday, Oct. 26, at 8:00 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center.

Panel

On Wednesday, Oct. 27, at 7:00
p.m. there will be a ﬁlm followed
by a panel discussion on the death
penalty in Virginia will take place
in Lewis Hall Classroom A.

ing sancations were levied:

Student Body Notice

An upperclassman has been found in violation of university policy for
ungentlemanly behavior directed towards a dorm counselor. The follow-

1) 15 hours of community service.

2) Banishment from the freshman dorms.

3) A meeting with Dean Manning to discuss the situation.
4) Conduct Probation for the rest of the year.

Professor Nancy Margand, Psychol-
ogy department, Tucker 315

e-mail: nmargand@wlu.edu

Professor H. Tom Williams, Phys-
ics department, Parrnly 206

e-mail: williams.ht@wlu.edu

Daniel Felton, Class of ’95, 464-
5297, e-mail: dfelton@wlu.edu

If you would be more comfortable
sending yoursuggestions toother mem-
bers of the committee.

They include: Professors Alty
(Chemistry), Goldsmith (Economics),
Koberstein (Romance Languages),
Oliver (Accounting), Simpson (Art),
Strong (Politics), West-Settle (Ro-
mance Languages), and student mem-
bers Frankie Jones and Carol Pierce.

Thank you for your help.
The Coeducation Review Committee

 Dickinson, ’94, Atlanta, Ga.—— Alex Kostera, ’97, Hammondsport, Stefanie Brown, ’94, McLean, Va., and Julie’Guerin, ’94, Hammond, La.

“\"\/_a_I(‘l1l'lg Beverly Hills 90210 and
Melrose Place.”

NY. — “Just watching any crap I can
find on TV.”

— “Checking out boys at the Co-op.”

...--7

Dr. Fred Schwab, professor of geol-
. ~— “Leave town on an exotic trip
or go to acoffee house.”

---- ._- _ -.-.-- ..__- -.. ____ -..'-._‘-'J.

Ali Walker, ’9s, Fort Lauder-daie,i§
Fla. — “The Co-op. lt’s the ultimate
way to procrastinate.”

l.
i.
l
I
V!

 

 

  

PAGE 10

Women overaehieve

0
The Ring-tum Phi, October 22, 199

Tennis Wins again, Nationals neg:

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

To produce a successful season, a team needs a
combination of luck, talent, and timely production.
According to coach Jan Hathorn, the Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team has been blessed with all
three.

With two games remaining before the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament, the Generals are once
again playing well.

On Wednesday, W&L defeated Lynchburg 2-1 in
overtime in a gut-wrenching affair. In a game which
Hathorn called, “a little two close for comfort,” the
Generals produced a win after losing to Messaiah on
Saturday. The victory provides the Generals with a
rallying point entering the ﬁnal stretch of the season.

Another turning point for the team, according to

Hathorn, was the game against Roanoke. The Generals
tied a powerful Roanoke squad on a day where the
Washington and Lee team did not play one of it’s better
games.

“We were very proud to walk away with a tie because
we didn’t play well,” said Hathorn.

Each game for the Generals presents an opportunity
for a different W&L player to step up. Also, younger
players have provided an infusion oftalent without being
overly encumbered by inexperience.

The next game for the Generals is for first place in the
ODAC against Randolph-Macon. After that, the W&L
team will gear up for the ODAC tournament where the
Generals are guaranteed to host the first round regardless
of the outcome of the Randolph-Macon contest.

With an ODAC record of 6-0-1 to this point, the
Washington and Lee women have already produced a
highly successful season. However, the team hopes to
accomplish their goal of winning the conference title.

Undergoing further preparation for
the Rolex National Championsh' in
Edmond, Okla., the Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team rolled over
still another opponent Oct. 19.

The Generals are still undefeated
for the fall season after Saturday’s vic-
tory over 4th-ranked Mary Washing-
ton. The 6-3 win was W&L’s first-ever
win over MWC. .‘

Sophomore Julie Ayers was behind
by a set when she came back to win
over Karen Vatz 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. Class-
mate Helen Chandler, also a come-
from-behind, rallied to beat Meghan
Cutler 3-6, 6-0, 6-2.

These two wins brought the Gener-

Football close, no cigar

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

“Wide Right!” Those are the two
worst words to mention to this team.
No, we don’t mean Florida State. No,
not the Buffalo Bills, either. We’re
talking about the Sewanee Tigers!

A hoarse sportscaster was heard
shouting those words over the WLUR
airwaves last year as Sewanee’s at-
tempt at a game-winning ﬁeld goal
with 42 seconds left sailed passed the
wrong side of the uprights. Washing-
ton and Lee’s 17-16 win in front of
several thousand Parent’s Weekend
spectators was the only blemish on the
Tigers’ 1992 record.

Saturday, the Generals will be in
Sewanee, Tennessee, where the Uni-
versity of the South will be pursuing
some big revenge.

Although Washington and Lee has
already topped last year’s loss total of
four, Sewanee is not quite the team
they were last year, either. The Tigers
have dropped two in a row and own a 3-
3 record, a far cry from their 1992 8-1
season.

Sewanee features one of the most
balanced attacks of any General oppo-
nent this year. Quarterback Russ Young
«averages near 200 passing-yards per

"i game and is considered one of Division

f Ill’s top QBS. When he’s not throwing

Read
the
Phi

Fitzhugh Lee
M. Miley

Sam Houston

tk

W&L Art

Signatures:
Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

fmtmunts
Blllllllll

the ball, Carl Cravens can run with it.
Cravens carried for just under 200 yards
in last year’s loss to W&L.

One other item going against
W&L--although the Generals lead the
all-time series 23-19, the home team
has won 29 out of the last 38.

The Generals fell to 0-5 after last
weekend’s 28-20 loss at Hampden-
Sydney. W&L’s 20 points outscored
every member of the H-SC offense
except one—Cedric Gayles. Gayles
found the General endzone four times
to account for every Tiger touchdown
(That’s the Hampden-Sydney Tigers,
not Sewaneel). He leads the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference with 10
touchdowns, nine rushing. Gayles’ 142
yards improved his rushing average to
105.8 yards/game, good enough for
second in the ODAC.

The Generals rushing attack, a
strong-point all year, didn’t make out
as well. Senior Tommy Mason was
held to just 45 yards on 19 carries,
while senior Wilson Moore chugged
17 on ﬁve runs. Mason had rushed for
more than 100 yards in each of the two
previous games. The tri-captain needs
just 66 yards to reach the career 1000
mark.

The Generals scored first as fresh-
man quarterback Brooks Fischer con-
nected with classmate Jon Gardner on
a 22-yard TD pass. It was Gardner’s
first catch of the year as the punter saw

 

FHIENDS llllN'l lil FRIENDS
llllllll llllllNK.

4

J
. '5'! l u.s. Depanment cl Transponanon

R.E. Lee
John Letcher
R. E. Lee. Jr.
A. P. Hill

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

J

a ar k
it’

DO YOU ENJOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

is fun but

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
to enjoy a round.

Call for a free brochure 463-1800

m ared toS ortin la s

in

some action at tightend. .

Hampden-Sydney led 14-10 at half-
time and upped the Homecoming Game
lead to 21-10 early in the third-quarter.
But a 34-yard TD reception by junior
Jake Kimball and the second ﬁeld—goa1
of the game by freshman Drew Tho-
mas cut the score to 21-20.

Washington and Lee had the ball
back with five minutes to go, but
couldn’t score. The Tigers then let
Gayles lead the way down the ﬁeld for
his fourth touchdown. With under a
minute to work with, the Generals went
to the air, but Fischer was intercepted
on a bomb with seconds to go.
Hampden-Sydney moved into a sec-
ond-place tie in the ODAC with Emory
& Henry, as W&L remained winless
with Guilford and one game back of
Bridgewater.

Sophomore Butler Ball had two in-
terceptions as the Generals’ defense
forced five turnovers. Senior Jason
Chartrand had one of his best games,
making 12 tackles and one sack. Junior
Andrew Cooper recorded a season-
high 11 tackles in his second start at
linebacker.

Washington & Lee returns to Lex-
ington nextweekto beginathree-game
homestand. After a Parent’s Weekend
game against Bridgewater, W&L faces
Catholic and Guilford before the No-
vember 20 Bermuda Bowl versus
Georgetown.

als to a4-2 advantage over Mary Wash-
ington. The doubles team of Kim
Dickinson and Anna O’Connor won in
straight sets to lock in the win for
W&L.

The squad is now 3-0 for the year,
the only undefeated team this seaton,
and will wrap up fall competition by
sending junior Marilyn Baker and
Ayers to the Rolex National Champi-
onship Oct. 28-31.

Baker, a 1993 Division lll tennis
All-American, is the Rolex South Re-
gion singles champion, and she te ed
with Ayers last year to earn the dou les
title.

After the Rolex competition, the
Generals will take a hiatus until the
spring season begins during winter
term.

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Julie Ayers returns a volley from her opponent as
the women s tennis team kept its season undefeated last week.

9

J OCKSHORTS

 

Up against Richmond, the Generals fell 13-8, though
they brought the game to a tie at half-time. Unfortunately,
the Spiders broke away in the fourth quarter to lock in tb
wrn.

Host Navy completely silenced the Generals, winning
17-5, but the W&L team could be comforted by the fact
that Navy, Rickmond, and University of Arkansas-Little
Rock are all ranked in the top 20 water polo teams in the
nation.

The Generals have a chance to get revenge on at leagt ,
one team this weekend, however—make that two chances. ,

Water Polo

During the Washington and Lee water polo team’s
first outing in a few weeks, the entire field at the Navy
Eastern Water Polo Association tournament proved too
much for the Generals.

W&L lost to Dayton and Arkansas-Little Rock in
fairly close games. The score against Little Rock was a
bare 8-9, while the Generals just failed to pull out a few
key goals versus Dayton, losing 11-16.

In the game against UA-LR, sophomore Bryan Drum

attempted a two point shot with 10 seconds remaining in
the game, but he was blocked by goalie Jose Aldebot.
Senior Greg Golub, playing again despite an unfortunate
shoulder injury during the team’s trip to California
earlier this season, was stopped in his last-ditch rebound

W&L will play Richmond at home Oct. 22 and will travel
to Richmond for a match at the Spiders’ home pool Oct.
23. Richmond is ranked 19th nationally.

Game time for the homematch Friday will be 7:00 in
the Cy Twombly pool. This is the Generals’ first home

attempt. game in two weeks

   
  
    

  
 
   
  

College
Credit

I‘€S€(ZI'Ch COLll'S€S, come 10.‘

     

  
   
     
     
     

A CORAL REEF, A RAINFOREST. . .

With SFS you can study critical environmental
issues worldwide including:

0 Wildlife Management in Kenya

0 Marine Ecology in the Caribbean

0 Rainforest Dynamics in Australia

0 Marine Mammals in Baja Mexico

0 Sustainable Development in Costa Rica

For more information on Semester & Summer field

       

O
El“
1 V. k .
THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS ll  B61:I1?I‘I:)S3t:il(Iint/OC/3 Black
ms AND omen war SPORTWEAR it E 11.1 d *1 heéée
LEXlll6l0ll'S ONLY souacr FOR rms AND umuu B0018 . 2* “C I 8, a / Beef Fajita
15 w. wnsmucron 81‘. WE Do MAIL ORDER! % All dmners $5.49 -
LEXINGTON 703 464-3000 5
F 7 \5°‘.:.;:.;.;,.:.;..t;.:.:.:.°°-,
The : could be in this space and o
- - . both you and the Phi I -
P O1Rnt of Vlew 2 would be much happier :
estmﬂant °oooooooooooooooo°
-rams: sononymesitl-1
”°""°‘;';;“;"’.,;‘.§‘°""' sruormt rcnoupislf
G ID. . g RalseasMuchasYou °
Eleeamsetﬁns ¥l32.‘..';‘..f3T‘.‘£E"5’3§
. pines; snub £A(:nr:<:tt/(\:pé>(lii_cationCsi for the
.FnshSeaf r ltcar ever-
° anquet acilities °" _-' al 0"
K J 3.-.i*:!:.§.:*.:4.“.*a§.*,':*.:“;g.
IN OUR LABORATORIES YOU’LL
0
FIND GIRAFFES, DOLPHINS,
lD«on"t II<n—ow \wmt to be four

IHalllI«owe«en’.P
Dent at ‘I3-osturme from 0

lloltarllllgv lDa|lrlt 

Financial
Aid

SFS SLIDE PRESENTATION
Tuesday, Oct. 26, 4:00 PM
Washington & Lee Univ.
University Ctr., Room 109

Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

 

Y
Dentall Service
Monday «- Saturday 9:30 1- 6:30
4154--672:0

or write: SFS, Box A, 16 Broadway, Beverly, MA 01915, (508) 927-7777

llll SCllllllL Fllll FlllLll S'l‘lllllllS

THE WORLDIS YOUR CLASSROOM

 

 

 
  
 
   
  
 

SP  The Hing-tum Phi, October 22, 1993

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

 
 

 Hamsteeter

 
  

   

 

 

 

Standings as of 10/19/93
- Men’s Cross Country Women’s Soccer
Overall Records* Overall Records
* Lynchbur 12-0-0 Randolph-Macon 11-1-0
Eastern ennonite 5-2-0 Washington and Lee 8-4-1
Hampden-Sydney/C 8-5-0 Lynchburg 10-6-0
' Washington and e 3-2-0 Roanoke 8-5-]
Roanoke 3-3-0 Va. Wesleyan 7-7-0
. . -ea‘-' .. . grid elvvlatirl 3-91? 0 guilfcald 5-8-0
«. an o p - acon - - -M omen’s 5-9-0
QUALITY AND VARIETY /  S _ Honing 3_11_0
U.S.D.A. CHOICE ~' ' Sweet Briar 2-9-0
EYE   '2. Women’s Cross Country
an Women’s Soccer
R0  ;. Overall Records ODAC Standings
 R _ _
Eglggkind Henry 3_8_8 Randolph-Macon 6-0-0
Lynchbur 2_1_0 E/ashington and Lee 6-0-1
Eastern ennonite 3-3-0 V°a“°k° 6‘1'1
Washington and Lee 1-1-0 L;‘I'1:1‘:l°)‘Sl1r‘°'g3’a“ Egg
Bridgewater 1-3-0 {arid 3_5_0
- ’ 2-6-0
Football Hollinsoman S 1-7-0
ODAC Standmgs Sweetbriar 0-8-0

Randolph-Macon 2-0-0 Vone ban

Emory and Henry 3‘1'0 Overall ecords
IgIampden—Sydney 3-1-0

rid ewater . 1-2-0 Gu-If d 20_5
q.s.D.A. CHOICE gvunlhqrd M 0-2-0 Brtdgiimet 19-5
35 ‘"8103 an e 0'-3'0 Eastern Mennonite 15-10
BOTTOM ROUND  
as ington and e 13-11
F00tba|| . Lynchburg 8-9
"M", 2 ‘WITH Overall Standings ﬁg:-_$)l}(3g1a, 
‘°""°""‘ ‘ LB Emory and Henry 5-2-0 Hollins 5-10
PURCHASE ° Ham d°n'S dm)’ 4'2'0 Emory and Henry 4-13
‘ ' IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII    3-2-1
B - bridgewater 2-4-O '
'  1-5-0 
Ann R” D, K: on Washington and Lee 0-5-0 ODAC standings
APP   ODAC Offensive Player of the Week gggfggater 
V Ronnie Howard-RB—Bridgewater Eastgm Mennonite 5_1
, Washington and Lee 3-3
‘ ODAC Defensive Player of the Week Sweet Bria‘ , 3'4
Aver Farmer—CB—Randol h-Macon R'M.W°m°“ S College 2'5
y P Hollins 2-5
Roanoke 1-4
Emory and Henry 1-4
Lynchburg 1-5
Men’s Soccer
L Overall Records
Washington and Lee

R°a“°k° 12'1'0 Team Records

Va. Wesle an 11-1-1

Rando1ph_S acon 12_2_20 (updated for 10/21/93)
Hampden- ydney 8-4- W a - _
Egggﬁgglgnnonite §-3-(1) wgﬁgilri $3333 8191

3 Emory and Henry 3-5-0 E//I§1I11e§,bCar1c])SS Country 1331
washm to“ and Lee 4'7‘0 Women’s Cross Country . .. 1-1
Guilfor 2-10-1 Water Polo 7-10
Bridgewater 1‘8'0 Men’s Soccer 5-10
Football 0-5
M ’ S
011,53 SSt:1:cli:gs Overall 39-454
Roanoke 6-0-0 Women’s Intramurals
ORVME SELECTED 99 1‘{]andolpla]Ma1con Z-1-8 Football Results
1r ima es e an - -
.     1 EaS%efﬂ Mcnn0%ite 3-3-0 Kappa  Theta 14’ Freshman Worncn 2
A P P L E POPCORN ................... ..21 OZ. Washington and L66 2-3-0 Kappa Al ha Theta 14, Kapga Kappa Gamma 9
' Ham den-Sydney 2-3-0 {aw School 7, Pi eta Phi 7
JUICE }{,’(i’§§’[g’}’{,“,£, ‘airotsrg 322:8
Brid ewater 0-5-0
2

BATH TISSUE ......... ..t57.5 so. FT.g

*On1y dual and tri-meets are
included in cross country records

1 64 01.

G. E.
THREE-WAY '29 .
LIGHT BULB ........... ..1 COUNT Sports

IN THE DEH-BAKERY
TURKEY -8”<§EBsR 499
BREAST. ........................ ..LB.

snscrrn VARIETIES D£co~G£srANr
° wig: SUDAFED
6 oz.

4 name CHIPS 7431575
24 CT. 

PTLLSBURY HIGHLAND CREST

. MICROWAVE   ICE
PANCAKES CREAM

. 2/ 0
Photo by Sarah Gilbert. The Fting-tum Phi

16.4 OZ.
0 0 Marllyn Baker, Intent upon a tennis ball at a Washington and Lee match re tl , th
Pl‘ E  h    photogenic athlete-of-the-week for Oct. 22, 1993. Gen V was e
Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, October20 Through uesda[yéaOctober 26 1993. in -Lo_xIng'ton __ County Stores ,
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To lers. We Giadly Accept Federoi Food Stamps.

ent o’ the week...

  
   

U

   

 

 
 
 

 
 

l/2 GAL.

Lo

0

 

  

Last Week:

WSoc-loses Messiah, defeats Lynch.
FB-W&L 20, Hampden—Sydney 28
Volleyball—wins ﬁve, loses three
MSoc—defeats Hampden—Sydney

PAGE 12

     
  
   

  

TS"

_  ing participatiorii. events

, the fan aspect hat '”
,ﬁgures.:irrto 3” '
' cess o,r;failu’rei.;.
, it has .bceIr mentioned 1
that, besides the to

   

 ‘eredithejgselutio
3 ‘ cret of sue 

       
 
 
   

  

does ‘Virginia Milrta
" stltute, a school;with~o_ril
; ‘a few moremaie studer3ts~;
1315.3 pet€=nnia1!3*’11  ‘'5
footbai_l.tea:ri,”ha ‘

 a1{wiys‘d;ggz"li, .
fans, many orn-

S

iillnz iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Phi
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer runs through practice at the Washington and Lee
track. Her win at the state Division ll-lll championship at Christopher Newport is her
second straight victory on the state level, and keeps her undefeated this season.

  
 
   
   
 
  
   
    

 

Rockbrid’ge_*:;:‘
Cheerleaders, t'I:1at’si W
Arguably, th
 cheerlc’aclers9*s
from Southe ,,

A: College‘ for Whine

. not v’ery.go‘od‘

; do.» But-.'they"ire
' A something that "is. hey,
' the "individual-. qualifi_
tions of a few girlswhosel.

#328 my or».m§aY.:r(0.t

, made for displa"y_;in“.sho
' skirts.  “ '
. Cheerleaders.
 1301 that someo A
._ien‘oughto’orde‘r '

 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

sport? On Wednesday night,
the Phillies and Blues Jays
combined for a World Series
record 29 runs on 31 hits. The
previous record for runs in a
game had stood since 1936.

Has either of these two
teams heard of pitching? I
thought I was watching a
Rockies vs. Padres game in
Mile High Stadium. Call me
a fanatic, but I GUARAN-
TEE that the Braves could
score 14 (yes, 14) runs and
win the game.

Maybe the Philadelphia
Eagles should take some
pointers fromthe Phillies. The
Eagles only managed to pro-
duce 10 points in last week’s
loss tothe Giants. The Phillies
14 would still not have won
the game, but it would have
made the score closer.

Thursday night, however,
the Phillies and Blue Jays
completely forgot how to
score runs. lnapitcher’s dual,
the Phillies defeated the Jays
2-0. l figure the two teams are
just trying to even out the
scores of the other 4 games as
far as average is concerned.

I would like to apologize
to all Atlanta Falcons fans (not
really) for last week’s humor.
The winged warriors managed
a win last week. The only
reason I pick on the Falcons
is, well, that way I anger the
fewest number of people. If
you didn’t get thatjoke, then
you are a true Falcon’s fan (or
possibly one of the players).

Also last week in football,
the Brownssubrogated Vinnie
Tcstaverdc for Bernie Kosar
(how did one team end up
with two QB’s named Bernie

  
   
     
   
     
       
    
 

°kay'.y0u’regoingt.<>.'
' forns sorneday”:~t A
spirit cheer)"
,; — Cheerleaders,
'  V613’ Pf¢$?Il1_°¢. is
" thereiisalwaysiat "of V
love their team.1Most’ irn
, 'portantl_y,;theclr

    
  
   
 
  
   

buzzer ; not y
» thefoothallpfayas

might help ': resin
1 dedicated’ friends-..,

up the lcgsof a cheerieade
standing on the shoulder
or hands ofarroth h’
ever felt;¥the rus
lighted. stadium‘ on
night, durin g a tense time: ' '-
‘ out when the team i_syards- A

 

Isn’t baseball a wonderful

Baseball blunders,
football follies

and Vinnie—it sounds like the
Godfather or something).

Surprisingly, Vinnie per-
formed well, leading the
Browns to victory.

The hockey season is now
well underway, and appar-
ently some things never
change. Wayne Gretzky tops
the scoring charts early. This
is an impressive feat for a
man who is approaching 90-
years-old or something. Oh
well, it is shaping up to be
another season like last year’s
where Lemieux missed an
inordinate number of games
only to return and blow ev-
eryone else away in scoring
for the rest of the year. Be-
sides, Gretsky is an injury
waiting to happen.

Parting Shots-

Steve’s Top Five (since
top ten would be a copyright
violation or something) Sur-
prises o’ the Week:

1) Mike Piaza wins the
National League rookie of
the year.

2) Redskins lose in a lop-
sided affair.

3) Mitch Williams can’t
hold a lead late.

4) The Eagles lose with-
out Randall Cunningham.

5) Everyone in the sports
world (players, coaches, net-
works, etc.) gripes about
money.

My pick to win the
Superbowl: the Cincinnatti
Bengals in a hard fought win
over the Atlanta Falcons.

When will Mike Tyson
get out of prison and kick
every other pretenders sorry
butt? He is probably a better
fighter after a few years be-
hind bars.

Finally, Seinfeld watch-
ers necd to learn the merits
of post-season baseball.
Happy trails.

 
 
  
 
 

onds“left;
roar 'o”f<the“' _ 
spouse to the yell o
eight or ten girls, who":
looked like the outcome of
the football gam_eHtonight.. '
was their wh 0 ld

  

 

  

 

Volleyball extends streak

By BILL Rusr
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee volley-
ball has gone on a tear, matching
its season opening four-match
win streak, and improving its
record to 13-11. The latest vic-
tory wasa 15-3, 15-1 3, 15-4 route
of fifth-ranked Sweet Briar Tues-
day.

The Generals’ assault was led
by sophomore Kelly Horan with
nine kills, and sophomore setter,
Cheryl Taurassi, who had 27 as-
sists in the match. Freshman
Elizabeth Balm managed three
blocks, and junior Captain Jen-
nifer Garrigus had 11 digs to
hold off the Vixen attack.

The Lady Generals hope their
winning ways continue through
the next two games and into the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence tournament.

“We’re streaky,” said senior
Captain Tara Burns, “but re-
cently we have been playing well
together and winning.”

The team ’s ODAC record now
stands at 4-3 and the Generals are

lVIen’s soccer struggles -
. . l
to overcome inexperience

o o y et any Smith, The Firng-tum P

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Records have been set at
Washington and Lee, champion-
ships have been won and sec-
onds have been shaved from pre-
vious marks.

Sophomore Josephine
Schaeffer, though, has done
something even a little more than
all these in her performance Oct.
16.

Leading the Generals’ Divi-
sion ll-III state championship
effort last weekend, Schaeffer
successfully defended her State
title in 17:25.

This time, amazingly, is 25
seconds off her previous record
(which is a school record) set this
season and is better than the win-
ning time in all but three of the
National Collegiate Athletic As-
sociation Division III champion-
ship meets since 1985.

Schaeffer did not expect im-
provement such as this.

“l never dreamed of dropping
25 seconds,” she said. ‘‘I was
hoping for a personal record, but
Ididn’texpectanythinglikethis.”

Schaeffer has improved by
leaps and bounds this year; at the
beginning of the season coach
Jim Phemister assessed her per-
formance as better than last year,
when she was an All-American
in both cross country and track.

“We’ve all been working
hard,” said Schaeffer of the team.
“We’ve all improved a lot. It all
seems to be coming together.”

Coming together are the

in fourth place.

But they went into a two and
eight downward spiral the last
time they won four in a row, and
have to avoid a similar fate this
time.

‘‘If we win the next two, and
we better win the next two,” said
Burns, “we should be in a good
position for the ODAC tourna-
ment.”

The team looks solid and has
posted a seven and three record
since the slump. As of Tuesday,
Taurassi lead the team with 451
assists, and Garrigus lead in digs
with 166.

Freshman Virginia Yoerg has
had a record setting season with
74 blocks, breaking Chrissie
Hart’s mark of 69 set last year,
and Tara Burns recently moved
into third place on W&L’s all-
time list with 408 kills. She leads
the team with 129.

They play Hollins away on
Tuesday, and take on the Cru-
saders of Randolph—Macon on
Thursday at home to close out
the regular season. Both matches
are against conference rivals and
may prove critical.

A soccer player maneuvers toward the team’s 5-10 record.

 

 

This Week:

FB—at Sewanee 10/23
VVPolo-Richmond 10/22, at Rich. 10/23
WSoc—at Randolph—Macon 10/22
MSoc—at Va. Wesleyan 10/22

 

chaeffer leads x—country to title

squad’s chances of being invited
to the Division III national cham-
pionship for the second year. A
first place at the regional cham-
pionships next month would give
the Generals an automatic bid.

After last weekend’s effort,
nothing is impossible for W&L.
Five Generals set personal
records during the race to come
out just ahead of Mary Washing-
ton College, a victory by eight
points.

Sophomore Amy Mears
placed fourth and junior Kim
Herring came in seventh to earn
all-state honors. Shaving huge
numbers from their previous
times were junior Sue Deutsch
and freshman Cathy Merritt;
Deutsch finished in 12th place,
up from the twenties last year.

Mears, with a time of 19:33,
spoke for the team’s morale.

“We were deﬁnitely happy,”
she said. “We were getting kind
of worried when they were count-
ing up the points.”

The win over MWC was a
true team effort, but even more
will be necessary if the Generals
hope to run in National competi-
tion.

“lt’s definitely within reach,”
said Schaeffer. “It’s going to take
a lot of hard work, but the team is
great.”

Mears was positive about the
chances.

“I think we do have a chance,”
she said. “I’d be really happy if
we could [win Regionals].”

If Schaeffer and the rest of the
team ever repeat a performance
like that of last weekend, the cross

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

A learning experience-that
is what this year’s men’s-soccer
season will be called.

An inexperienced Washing-
ton and Lee team has played hard
throughout the season, with many
of their defeats coming as the
result of costly lapses in close
affairs.

Following a defeat of
Hampden—Sydney, the Generals
lost to Maryville 4-2 after lead-
ing 2-1. Rhodes College also
proved to be too much to handle
for the Generals, winning 2-0 on
Saturday. The team’s next game
was Thursday against Eastern
Mennonite College, which they
lost 3-2.

Thursday’s loss moved the
Generals’ record to 5-10 overall
and 3-4 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference with one
game remaining on the schedule
before the conference tourna-
ment.

The Generals trailed 3-0 be-
fore rallying on goals by Bill Gill
and Dan Rhodes. The rally fell

. petitive with almost any Divi-

Phto y Bethany Smith, ing-u ‘ h
A member of the volleyball team spikes over the n t at
Doremus gymnasium. The team is currently 13-11 .

     
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
     
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
     
   
     
   
     
  
    
   
 
  
     
   
   
   

OCTOBER 22, 1993

country program had better ti-
tion for an upgradeto a higher
division.

Schaeffer, at 17:25, is com-

sion I runner, and improvement
of chunks of time like 25 seconds
shows that she is only starting to
realize her potential.

In her coaches’ opimions,
Schaeffer is improving every day.
The team as a whole, running 45-
50 miles a week, optimistic and
still fairly young (only one se-
nior, Amy Brown, is currently .
running for the team) is cor$is-
tently working hard and truly
improving.

On the men’s side, the young
and injury-prone squad pulled
out a strong third place.

The Generals were us! behind
Christopher Newport and Mary
Washington, who both have pe-
rennially strong cross counry
teams and are W&L’s top rivals
in the sport.

Sophomore Brad Paye was
Washington and Lee’s top fin-
isher, coming in ninth to carnal]-
state honors. His time was a quick
27:12. ' .

Also ﬁnishing below 28 min-
utes were freshman Sandy
Hooper and sophomore Tom
Fink. Hooper was running with-
out injury for the first timeghis
season.

The menwi1lbeidlethisweek-
end as the women head to the
Gettysburg Invitational Oct. 23. 4
Both teams will host the school ’s
only cross country invitational
of theseasonthe followingw3=:k-
end, Oct. 30.

             
      
   
  
    
      
   
   
    
    
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
   
  
    
    
    
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 

short, however, when a last sec-
ond shot cleared the crossbar.

Saturday’s game against Vir-
ginia Wesleyan will close out the
year for the W&L squad. De-
spite this year’s discouraging
record, the future appears bright
for the Generals. A number of
the young players return for next
season, and hopefully the experi-
ence ofthis campaign will aid the
team next year.

Sophomore Fernando Bﬁavo
made his first start in goal against
Rhodes on Saturday making eight
saves in the first half. Also, se-
nior Dan Rhodes has played well
lately. He tallied a goal and as-
sist against Hampden—Sydney in
addition to his goal Thurglay
against Eastern Mennonite.

The General’s hope to. close
out the season on a high note
with a victory against Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday. A win
would enable the Washington &
Lee squad to finish at .500 irothe
ODAC with a 4-4 record.

W&Lsoccer enthusiasts have S
ample reason to expect a suc-
cessful season next year, but first
the Generals have to close out
this season.

 
 
   
     
     
 

O

  

