 

 
 

 

They Might Be Gia

Read the exclusive

interview in the Phi

 LEYBURN us av
ON & LEE UNIV . IT-Y

LEXINGTON, VA 2

sep 2 71993

Volleyball equals

best start in history

0

he ‘ﬂing-tum lﬁlri

VOLUME 93, NO. 03

" olice arres

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Three freshman men suffered injuries when
a group of young black Lexington men as-
saulted them on Washington Street Saturday
nigﬁt.

“It made no sense,” said Mike Casillo, one
of the injured freshmen.

Casillo, Andrew Ruwe and Derek Schulze,
the two other injured freshmen, said that there
were at least 15 men in the group that followed
them as they walked down Washington Street
tovqrd the Pi Kappa Phi house. Casillo, Ruwe
and Schulze were with five other freshmen;
three women and two men. The youths did not
attack any of the women. The two other fresh-

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

t one local juven

men man ran to get help.

“Me and a friend were at the end of the line,”
said Schulze. “We passed a group of about 15
black guys. They were talking stuff to us.

“One of the leaders came up to me and said
‘now why’d you want to call us a bunch of
niggers?’ I said ‘we didn’t say anything, we
don’t want any trouble.’

‘‘I heard him behind me giggling. Then he
punched me in the back of the head. I turned
around and punched him back and then I was hit
by another guy in the jaw. They punched Mike
too. Then I yelled ‘run’— it looked like a bad
situation.”

Ruwe was walking ahead of the group with
two of the girls. Ruwe said that he received the
worst beating because he did not realize quickly
enough what was going on.

“We were walking ahead of the group sing-
ing and having a good time,” said Ruwe. “Then
all my friends started sprinting past me. I got
punched and I went down [since I was trying to
run]. I got up but then I got punched again
halfway up the Pi Phi lawn. I looked up to see
three big black guys standing over me.”

Ruwe said the attackers continued to kick
him until they were chased away by Pi Phi
members.

But that was not enough to scare the youths.
Ruwe said they returned a few minutes later
with sticks and baseball bats.

“I guess they came back to prove a point,”
said Ruwe.

Lexington Police Seargeant Wayne Straub
said that Shulze identified one of the attackers
later that night when they searched the city in a

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

patrol car. Police arrested the 16-year-old
Lexington youth Tuesday night. He was held in
a juvenile detention home until his hearing
Wednesday. The hearing was closed because of
his status as a minor.

Sgt. Straub said the youth may also be
charged with parole violation from a previous
conviction if he is convicted on the assualt
charge.

“He is charged with assualt and trespassing
on W&L property,” said Straub. “Papers were
served on him a year ago not to be on W&L
property.”

Police arrested two other youths the night of
the assualt for violating Lexington’s 11 p.m.
curfew for minors aged16 and under. Straub
said police “feel strongly that they were in-
volved [in the assault], but they can’t be charged

Domino’s
cancels ID
charges

By ET}-IAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Reporter

Domino’s Pizza has decided to dis-
continue its student ID charge program
after a test run of the program proved
urrﬂuccessful.

Rick Ficken, manager of Domino’s
in Lexington, said the program was

. started under owner Tom Wallace, who
had prior experience with the program
at other schools,

including Roanoke College. At
other schools, the program had proven
succesful for both the school and
Domino’s. Washington and Lee Uni-
versity decided to tryout a similar pro-
gram with the local Domino’s exclu-
sively because Wallace was familiar
with the system and was willing to pay
th§up—front cost of $3,600 to lease the
equipment, said John Cuny, assistant
treasurer and business office control-
ler.

Cuny said Wallace “approached the
Uniziersity with the intention of setting

us such a program.” W&L received 15
;' rcent of the total sales placed on the
r afd by students. According to Cuny,
the amount of pizza ordered was far
below what was expected, but Wallace
“felt that it would get better.”
Recently, Wallace decided to sell
his Lexington Domino’s franchise to
Ficken. Ficken opted to end the stu

u>'§ee DOMlNO’S, page 6

Bocci weather...

Students socialize in front of the Co-op while the weathélvremains summer-like. Autumn will
‘ probably make its presence felt this weekend for the football game, with rain and low temps.

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

SEPTEMBER 24, 1993

 reshmen hurt in racial assault

ile for assault and trespassing

without a positive identiﬁcation.”

Straub said although this assault is similar to
incidents involving the L-Posse two years ago,
this attack had nothing to do with gangs

“We got rid of the L-Posse,” said Straub.
“Most of them went to prison. This is a younger
group coming up — it runs in cycles. l’ve been
here for 15 years and I’m still fighting to put it
down.”

Straub said students should walk in groups,
especially at night. Straub also advises W&L
students not to associate with townspeople.

Straub said police are continuing the inves-
tigation, but advised students to be extremely
cautious.

“These kids are student bashing. Do every-
thing you can to avoid them. They’re out look-
ing to beat someone up.” 0

‘EC allots
SAB $70,000

By THOMAS Hesros

AND MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Of The Ring-tum Phi staﬂ

which asked for $2,400, fell under the
new policy and for the second year in a
row did not receive funding.

The Student Activities Board must

Third year law representative James
Rambeau motioned that$2,000 be given

be feeling pretty important right now.
At its annual budget allocations, the
Executive Committee gaveSAB

$70,000, an increase of $7,000 over.

last year, and an increase I of over
$15,000 over the past two years. But
most other student organizations, in-
cluding the Calyx, suffered cuts be-
cause the Executive Committee had
only $210,800 to distribute, excluding
$20,000 place in its reserve funds. The
$210,800 is about $25,000 less than the
EC had to give out last year.
The EC’s Honor Reserve has
$7,000, the Student Body Reserve has
$8,000, and the EC reserve has $5,000.
Additionally, Jason Robertson, former
president of the Student Telephone
Union and the Student Power Union,
allocated $17,000 to the EC to be used
for long term needs. Unfortunately,
the EC depleted the STU/SPU fund —
‘$4,000 was used to buy acopier and the
rest was used for miscellaneous alloca-
tions.

On Wednesday night during delib-
erations, the EC adopted a policy which
states they will not fund ideologically
or politically partisan organizations.
The American Civil Liberties Union,

to the ACLU specifically to fund a
debate between law professor Lani
Guiner and conservative/libertarian
Clint Bolick. But the EC felt that
would contradict the newly-adopted
policy.

Andrew Schneider, the president
of ACLU, defended his organization
as being politically neutral in protect-
ing the Bill of Rights. Ted Elliot of the
College Republicans didn’t see things
in quite the same way. “I didn’t see the
ACLU running to protect our constitu-
tional rights,” said Elliot, referring to
an incident last year when College
Republican posters were torn down.

Second-year Law Representative
Kevin Webb suggested that the ACLU
look to other resources for funding. “If
they (ACLU) need funds, they can have
a bake sale or something,” said Webb.
Amnesty lntemational was also ex-
cluded under the new policy.

Amnesty asked for $2,400. At issue
was their opposition to the death pen-
alty and the anti-death penalty display
they displayed in the library last year.
Secretary Ashby Hackney argued that

bsee EC, page 6

&L rank rises to 20

From Staff Reports

Washington and Lee is movin’
on up.

W&L ranked 20th among the
nation’s best national liberal arts
colleges in this year’s edition of
U.S. News and World Report’s
College Rankings. That’s up two
notches from 22nd place, where
W&L has ranked the last two
years.

The 1,371 accredited four-
year schools included in the study
(institutions with 200 or fewer
students were excluded) were
ranked according to a system that
combined statistical data with the
results of an exclusive U. S. News
survey of academic reputations
among 2,655 college presidents,
deans and admissions directors,
resulting in a record 65 percent
response rate.

To determine the reputational
rankings, the participants in the
survey rated only institutions in
the same category as their own
schools. They were asked to place
each school into one of four
quartiles based upon its reputa-
tion. Each time a respondent
placed a school in the top quartile,
it received four points; in the
second quartile, three points; in
the third quartile, two points, and
in the fourth quartile, one point.
The points for each school were
totaled and divided by the num-

ber of participants who placed
the school in one of these quartiles
to calculate the reputational
scores. To determine a school’s
overall rank, the reputational
scores were combined with data
provided by the colleges. These
included statistics that measured
student selectivity, faculty re-
sources, financial resources,
graduation rate and alumni satis-
faction.

The statistical data and the
reputational rankings were then
converted to percentiles. The
highest raw score for any attribute
was valued at 100 percent. Next,
all the other schools were taken
as a percentage of the top score
and totaled. The six attributes for
each school were then numeri-
cally ranked in descending order
and weighted: Alumni satisfac-
tion counted for 5 percent, gradu-
ation rate for 10 percent, finan-
cial resources 15 percent, faculty
resources 20 percent academic
reputation and student selectiv-
ity accounted for25 percent each.
The weighted numbered ranks
for each school were totaled and
compared with the weighted to-
tals for the others in its category.
The highest ranking school was
the one with the lowest total. Its
overall score was converted into
a percentile of 100. The totals for

I->See W&L, page 6

Mrs. Watson’s passion
for Asian art revealed

Passion.

For Mrs. Elizabeth
Otey Watson, this was
the ingredient that
sparked her interest in
collecting East Asian
art and furnishings
now on display at
Washington and
Lee’s Watson Pavil-

_ IOII.

“I ’m terribly interested
in the Far East,” said
Watson. She lived lived
in Canton, Hong Kong,
Bangkok, Indonesia and
Taiwan.

From antique Khoton
rugs to Ming Dynasty
lamps, the Watson col-
lection spans a broad
range of East Asian art.
Some of the Chinese ex-
port porcelain and jade
goes back nearly 2,000

years.
“There’s not one [center] in

 

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Reporter

 

this country that can encom-
pass the broad range [of East
Asian art] that the Watson Pa-
vilion and Reeves Center do,”
said Mr. James Whitehead,
fonner director of the Reeves
Center.

Watson graduated from

 

Radcliffe, which is part of
Harvard-Radcliffe, with a
bachelor’s degree in fine arts.
“My major was ﬁne arts, so
naturally I had an inclination
[towards art],” she said.
However, her love for art
did not start in college. Even in
her “middle school” years, she

bsee WATSON, page 7

 

  

PAGE 2

Ellie iﬁing-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

In the middle

Last Week Washington and Lee students were told that
it might be best if they did not associate with Virginia
Military Institute cadets. This week Chief of Police Bruce
Beard told a reporter it might be best if students did not
associate with townspeople.

But aren’t we continually told that we need to work at
improving relations with both Lexington residents and
the cadets? So where does that leave us? We either stop
associating with non-W&L folks or we try to improve
relations. Either way we have to ignore one piece of
advice.

But, realistically, how can we just stop associating
with townspeople or cadets? It’s rather difficult to walk
the streets of Lexington without bumping into one or the
other. The three W&L students that were beaten did not
go out looking for the townspeople. They went out
looking for a W&L party and just happened to meet up
with a group of townspeople that wanted to beat them up.
Maybe we should just pick up the fraternity houses that
are more than a quarter of a mile from campus and move
them closer. Then we can build big huge walls around
everything W&L owns and dig tunnels to connect every-
thing, so we never have to take the risk or bumping into
a cadet or townsperson. Of course we would have to work
something out with one of the supermarkets to have them
deliver. We would have to bend the rules a little to get the
groceries from the delivery person though. After all, that
delivery person would have to be from town or a cadet
because W&L students would be too busy making sure
we did not associate with townspeople or cadets.

Ridiculous isn’t it? Well, that whole scenario is only as
ridiculous as the idea of ignoring whatever problems
have caused the last two fights involving W&L students.
We can not avoid cadets and townspeople and be a part of
the community at the same time. And we can not just
remove ourselves from the community. Lexington and
W&L are just too small.

There is no way for W&L, VMI and Lexington to
completely separate themselves from one another. W&L
would not be the same university if it was in another city.
Lexington would not be the same city without W&L and
VMI. Any suggestion that the three try to separate them-
selves from one another is ludicrous. Instead of ignoring
our problems with each other, we should try and figure
out what is going on.

Speak Y’al1

;.,..)(0u’«ve- heard. it before, but you’re going to hear it

. again,  speakingtradition-is at the lowest point any of

uscan remember. It may not be dead yet, but it’s gasping.

Other than a few freshmen, just about everyone on this

campus chooses to look away from their fellow students
rather than say hello or smile. The question is... why?

Perhaps W&L has become as rude as the rest of the
world. Reginald Alton said at Opening Convocation that
the people here were the happiest and friendliest he had
ever met. We would like to think Mr. Alton was right, but
you have to wonder when we can’t be bothered to say
hello to one another.

Maybe it’s apathy. It’s possible that apathy has set in
so deep in all of us that we can’t be bothered to speak to
each other on the Hill. But maybe it’s not that bad. It
could just be a momentary lapse of reason on the part of
the entire student body.

So, in the hope of slapping us all awake — SPEAK.
It’s one of those little traditions here that help make
W&L a unique place. So, unless you want W&L to
become just like all those other places, say hello or even
just smile at your fellow students when you see them on
the Hill. Any acknowledgment of existence is far better
then averting your eyes. And anyway, the ground can not
be that interesting.

PS. Professors, it would be nice if you would say hello,

Eiuote of the Week

It’s like ebony and ivory.
— A Sigma Nu watching two cadets speaking to a Phi Delt

Tilt: iittng-tum iﬂlii

 
 

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien,ThoIrias Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . .Ricltard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sar'ah Gilbert

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

..Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l(evin Roddey

Assistant Business Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allan Hiekinger

. Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

‘Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

H I The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
' j University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi comes primarily front advertising and
,subscr_i'ption revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and
l business manager, but The Ring-rum Phi is otherwise independent.

“' V ; Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208ofthe University Center, by noon
' . on Tuesday to appear in that week‘s edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum
. Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, September 24, 1 ' '

  

 Au» at llsoenr flaws, 95 VEZLEN1’ or

ALL. AMEZKANS sA«i> ‘me
A HEALTH one PLAN PR posse ey A

Wo\lt.D Rt‘-:"sEc.i' M-

“"\.,

MAN wuo's FAVORWE MEN-. is A any
MAC , LARGE FRIES AND A SHAKE.

O

Vouchers will help U.S. educatio, ..

In 1978 Califomia’s voters over-
whelmingly passed Proposition 12,
which cut and prohibited further in-
creases in property taxes and started
the greatest tax revolt in modern Ameri-
can history. It spurred similar revolts
nation-wide against bureaucratic gov-
ernments that excessively taxed and
scarcely provided useful services. Be-
fore it was over, it propelled Ronald

educate and are often crime-ridden.
Vouchers give these parents the free-
dom to choose a school for their chil-
dren, instead of having it tyrannically
imposed on them.

The competition between schools
brought on by a voucher system im-

proves the entire educational estab- 

lishment. Bad schools ﬁnd their stu-
dents leaving to attend better schools,

 

Reagan into forcingthem
the presidency to either im-
and gave him prove or
the political close down.
support he The

needed to re-  of 
duce federal Olmem ptoﬁtentices
taxes. The dy- 996 education
namic eco- entrepre-
nomic growth neurstoforrn
generated by newschools.
these‘ tax cuts‘ W V y x   V  existing
broughtfoitliaj _ _ ' ‘ M I ‘ I “ ‘ jeducational
new renaissance of ‘entrepreneurship a monopoly, which‘-perpetuatesthe»cre-

and.‘ economic advancement in
America.

In November Califomia’s voters
have a chance to again start a renais-
sance in America; this time it deals
with something of more importance
than economic policy, the education of
America’s children. Proposition 174
seeks to establish in California the
nation’s ﬁrst school choice system. It
would give every child in California a
$2,600 voucherto be used at any school
of the parents’ choice. Parents would
shop for a school just as they do for a
car. Vouchers give them greater free-
dom to ﬁnd the particular school that
best meets their childrens’ needs.
Whether it’s a school with a Afro-
centric curriculum or a strong science
department, parents decide what type
of education their children receive.

Low-income families stand to ben-
eﬁt the most from a voucher system.
Students from high and middle income
families can afford to leave a bad pub-
lic school; students from low income
families do not have this option. They
are left trapped in schools that do not

Perot’s demogoguery a threat -

inﬂuence, he has a good deal of that too. He’ll be
able to run the country just like he ran his billion
dollar business and pretty soon we’ll be doing ﬁne,
right? WRONG! 4
It’s true, Mr. Perot is not in this game for the
money or the inﬂuence, he ’s had those for years, but
he is in it for another reason, he’s in it for the
attention. He is a bored billionaire with only one

Last week Americans witnessed an unusual sight
in our nation’s capital. Former presidents Ford, Caner,
and Bush joined President Clinton at the White House
in a ceremony supporting the North American Free
Trade Agreement. My purpose is neither to agree nor
disagree with their positions, but to expand upon

statements made by President
Carter concerning a danger-

ation of morons, would evaporate into
a system of hundreds of independent
schools, each competing to be the best
educator. America’s students can only
beneﬁt from such a system.

Vouchers give parents who want
their children educated on religious
matters, but who cannot afford to pay
both for a public school and for a paro-
chial school, the ﬁnancial ability to
afford the school of their choice. Par-
ents do not want their children attend-
ing schools where metal detectors have
replaced the Ten Commandments. A
voucher system allows them to send
their children-to a school where reli-
gious matters are treated seriously, in-
stead of to a public school where they
are neglected.

The national coalition pushing for
school choice has a non-partisan com-
position. In Wisconsin, Democratic
state legislator Polly Williams pushed
through legislation that gave part of
Milwaukee a voucher system. She and
other minorities, who are ﬁghting to
get poor inner-city children out of the
collapsed public schools, are aligned

ous force now at work in our
nation. This force is embod-
ied in one person, a man Mr.
Carter spoke of as a “dema-
gogue.” A demagogue who
has “unlimited ﬁnancial re-
sources and who is extremely

 

Patrick
McDermo_tt

careless with the truth, who is
preying on the fears and the

uncertainties of the American public.”
name is H. Ross Perot and I must wholeheartedly
agree with our esteemed former President’s opinion

of this attention-addicted showman.

One columnist described him as, “a vertically
impaired billionaire who sounds like a chihuahua.” I
happen to agree, but more important than his annoy-
ing style is his unrelenting pursuit of celebrity. This
pursuit will inevitably be at the cost of the millions of
Americans who have swallowed his empty lure. He is
a populist, but he is unlike any political populist this
country has ever seen. Mr. Perot would be more at
home on a list of such fonner populists as Jim Jones
or David Koresh, and let me tell ya folks, you don’t

want to drink his cup of Kool-Aid.

His platfonn, like his rhetoric, is full of absolutely
nothing. He has not a single workable idea for what to
do with this country because he has realized that it is
both easier and less risky to go fiorn podium to
podium telling the people what they want to hear
without really giving them any answers. Since losing

The man’s

plans at home because
he did not expect to be
asked about them!
What scares me the
most about the “Perot-
mania” which is taking
place in our country is
that it demonstrates just
how desperate the av-
erage American citizen
is for a politician he or

she can trust. During last years election they were
frustrated with what seemed like endless corruption
and inefﬁciency on the part of their elected represen-
tatives. And then here came H. Ross Perot, American
Billionaire, who offered himself up as the people’s
candidate. What could be more perfect? He isn’t in it
for the money, he’s got plenty. He isn’t in it for the

the presidential election, Mr. Perot, still needing his
daily “ﬁx” of empty applause and blind support, has
been going from his home base of Larry King Live, to
each of the morning talk shows and all around the
country on his lecture tours. He has attacked the
President’s budget proposal, he denounced the Clinton
Deﬁcit Reduction Program,‘
and now he is after NAFTA,
even though he has no alter-
native toofferforany ofthese
issues.

ers what his solution is, he
continually makes excuses
and use his famous one-lin-
ers and empty slogans to ﬁll
airtime until the show is over.
When he was pressed recently by a reporter to give a
substantive response to any one of these issues, Mr.
Perot told the viewing audience that he had leﬂ his

with such free-market conservatives as
Noble Prize winner Milton Friedman.
They do not seek to impose any politi-
cal position on schools, only to reform
them.

As with every refonn movement,
there is an entrenched establishment
detennined to squelch it. This time it is
the teachers’ unions and the political
class it supports.

The June 7 Forbes examined the
unrestrained powerof the National Edu-
cation Association. It found that as the
percentage of teachers in unions has
increased, starting in the early sixties,
the average SAT score has fallen. The
NEA loves to explain this decline as a
result of too few dollars being allo-
cared to education. Yet, spending per
pupil and teachers’ salaries, as Forbes
points out, have both dramatically in-

creased since 1945. The average teach-,

 

  
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   

schools controlled by it are the sam
schools parents so badly want thei
children to ﬂee. As students and thei
vouchers leave the NEA’s, schools, i
loses its monopolistic power to de
mand higher wages for teachers Th
higher teachers’ wages, the higher th
union dues which can be collected. The
NBA complains that teachers are n it
well paid. That’s partly because '
NEAcollectsforitsown uses,asFor .
reports, $742 million in dues fro A
teachers. 6

On what does the NEA spend thi
excessive war chest?

Notice that teachers were the larg
est single voting bloc at the 1992 Demo
cratic Convention. To protect its mo
nopoly, the NEA has become a majo
player in elections. Its deep pogket
are attractive to any candidate. As th -
proponents of school choice have ‘dis

  
   
    
    
   
  
   

ers.’payhasrisen T covered, the - o
in1992constant T liticalfriendst -
g;>1|;_%_~ flrgirsi ouchers give par- {EBA buys wilt
, in - is money ma -
to $35,334 in cuts who want their educationa re
1992,andspend- children educated on form nearly im
ing perpupil has possible. Wha
increased from t makes Proposi
$974 to $5,216. tion 174 so dan
W II II- I? 3 I
 P l:,'l‘i’cl"l;m pay both for a public ﬁegxus *3‘ 
cation is not school and for a pan)’ goes over the
money; it’s that chlal school, the ﬁnan- heads of it§ po-
the government litical allies. ..
has allowed me cial ability to afford the amount 0
teachers’ unions school of their choice. money can buy
to gain a mo- offparent angry
nopoly. - about the shality

This monopoly has more control
over childrens’ education than their
parents. -It sits back and allows such
topics as “Health Awareness” and
“Why Billy has Two Daddies” to re-
place math, science, and English. The
concerns of the NEA are not educa-
tional matters but the protection of its
monopoly.

The NEA recognizes that if school
choice plans spread throughout the
country its power will collapse. The

When asked by interview-

world left to conquer, and he has decided tiiattno
matter what it takes, he is going to win. I have no
doubt whatsoeverthat Mr. Perot’s name will appear
on the Presidential ballot in 1996. He has invested
too much money and is having too good a time to
stop now. What we must do is close down his little
party before he damages the people and the strength
of this nation.

Whether you think NAFTA is a good idea or not,
one thing is for certain, Mr. Perot is in it fo the
wrong reasons. He has now gone beyond eva ing
the tough questions and is purposefully spreading

  
 
   
  
    
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  

of education their children receiv

When Californians vote thilI&o-
vember they will be deciding in re
than the structure of their education
system. The vote will determine
whether a government sponsored mo-
nopoly or parents can best serve the
needs of America’s children. Proposi-
tion 12 helped Americans regairy:on-
trol over their property; let’s hope
Proposition 174 helps Americans re-
gain control over their children.

blatant lies about this

treaty. He has repeat-

Ross Perot will be able to run Eﬂlﬁﬁlalﬁd 

0 WI C05 6

the country just like he ran his United SW5 5 "_
billion dollar business and lion jobs. Even the

pretty soon we’ll be doing ﬁne,

right? WRONG!

staunchestopponents
of the treaty will tell
you that this is sim-

go home.

ply not true. All the
while, the hard work-

ing citizens of our nation are being fed Mr. Perot’s
frightening misinformation. “
This must stop. It is time we all stood up to Ross
Perot for what he is, an egocentric bully who got a
little bored and got carried away with a dangerous
game. It’s time we told Ross to pick up his toys an e

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1993

Sros’ SPACE
Tom Hespos

Its about that time. It’s been almost
a month since you arrived at Washing-
toigand Lee. If you haven’t done it
already, now is the time to write the

» infamous first letter to your parents.
» Although you may have had to call

Mom and Dad a few times since your
arrival, the old parental units like to get
a little mail every once in a while, so go

Washington and Lee. I have made
many new friends here in the dorms.
(You have to meet this guy Harold.
During open contact, he went to Alpha
Beta Gamma and got really drunk...then
he puked on our dorm counselor.)

My classes are going well. I think
my professors really like me. (Except
for my Calculus professor. On the first
Thursday, I slept through class because
I was hungover. He dropped me from
the class and I had a real problem
getting back in.)

Books and school supplies sure cost
a lot of money here in Lexington, so

has become pregnant, in which case
I’m really screwed.)

I got my first test back in English
class today. It was a little below what I
expected to get, but I talked to the
professor and he says I can get my
grade back up. (I got a 46. The profes-
sor dedicated an entire 15-minute in-
class tirade to me and my pitiful score.
He said that unless I get my ass in gear,
I will probably
fail.)

Are you
coming for
P a r e n t ’ s

OPINION

Spos misses his family (maybe)

Books and school

apartment parties and a state trooper
nailed me for doing 85 in a 65.)

All in all, I think things are going
fairly well here. (If you don’t count that
small laundry mishap that turned all of
my clothes pink.) I hope to see you
soon. (I need money... big time.) I
hope Sis is doing OK. (Hmmmm...
maybe she could send me some cash?)

Write back soon. (Or call. I can’t
afford to call since
some of my
hallmates used my
phone to call
Guam and never

Kathekon

Kathekon will be in front of the
Co-op on Tuesday from 11 a.m.to.2
p.m. and Wednesday from 11 a.m.to
A3 p.m. with catalogs for ordering
ﬂoat supplies for the Homecoming
parade.

England

i ﬁn" 1:;

PAGE  a 

 

from Professor Ronald Lane Reese,
Parmly Hall 216 (463-8885). Dead-
line for applications for next year is
November 29. -

Contact A A

Members of Contact who have
not attended meetings yet, please
call Matt Jackson, chairman, at 463-
9819.

3h d and Write l0 them -lU_St doll,‘ d0r1’tbe t00 Surprised When you get the Weekend? I . paid me back.) - Any students interested in Ad-
tggve ihelm anydmore information than :ill.b('I‘(ljie iize otfi)ny CD collection has can’: wait to supplies sure COSt 3 lot vanced studies in Engiand shouid
ell Y“ Y nee - 0|! e ,I oug - see you. (I can of money here in Lex. Love, come to Payne 20 on Saturday at A

During Spos’ freshman year, he
made the mistake of writing down ev-
ery little thing that happened to him
during Rush, with the end result being
tha$“Spos’ mom almost had a king-size
he

I started a charge account at a store
called Alvin-Dennis because I needed
some new clothes for school. (-and
when you get the bill, you might not be
able to make your next two car pay-

"certainly
wait... my
roomisaoom-
plete mess.
The neatest

ington, so don’t be too
' surprised when you get
the bill. (The size of my.

Joe Freshman

V P.S. Do you
think’ you could
send the tune-up

3:00 p.m. to receive information.

Women’s Forum

The Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault is seeking
volunteers to provide direct victim

. attack Whlle SPOS’ dad PI°b3h_lY merits.) thing about it CD c0nect10n has money quickly? At this week’s meeting of the services and community education
smiled atlhe Slghlgflhe leher ahd “"99 A few Weeks ago. l Went t0 my first is the six-by- doub]ed, th0ugh_) (l’ve already post- Women’s Forum, Professor programs. The 33-hour Fall Vol-
“Thatis my ho)/”l_ _ fraternity party at Alpha Beta Gamma- six beer pyra- poned my court Simpson will present “The Tradi- unteer Training Program will be

The f°ll°W1hg‘5 3 Sample Ofa WP1‘ The brothers Were really nice l alS0 mid my room- date — twice.) tion of Women at W&L.” All are held from Thursday, September30
Cal fTeShm3h’S ﬁfsl lellef h0m°- The melthis really nice girl named Susan-l mate and I invited to attend on Sunday, Sep- through Saturday, December 4 at
pans that should be censored are given think you’ll like her (The Alpha Beta built last Gettheidea?lf tember 26 at 6:30 p.m. in the Ar- the Mint Spring United Methodist
lh Palehthesesy 50 lhal haw freshmen Gammas fed me beer until 1 COUld weekend.) Joe’s mother is exposed to any of the lington Women’s Center. Church. Formoreinformation,call

caﬂleam from it and ease the strain on
their mothers’ hearts:

Dear Mom and Dad,
I am having a great time here at

barely see. I passed out and woke up
next to this girl named Helga. I don’t
know whether you would like her or
not — in any case, I have no intention of
everspeaking to heragain. . . unless she

The car is doing fine. I was wonder-
ing if you could send me a hundred
dollars so that I can get an oil change
and a tune-up. (T une-up my foot! My
buddies made me drive to the Hollins

parenthetical quips above, she will drop
dea in the middle of the driveway on
her way back from the mailbox. So
watch what you put on paper.

See you in two weeks...

Confederate ﬂag not appropriate

F MY VIEW
’ Michael Hewlett, ’96.

I don’t like the Confederate ﬂag too much. Even
after a year at Washington and Lee University, I’m
still not quite used to seeing that ﬂag hanging proudly
ouﬁof peoples’ rooms. Most people who hang the

were raped and black men were emasculated. A time
when the crack of the whip on human ﬂesh was heard
over and over again. A time when those happy singing
darkies picked cotton and tobacco from sunup to
sunset. A time when being black and being American
were two different things.

Yet, most defenders say that even though slavery
was bad, it wasn’t the cause of the Civil War. It was
about state rights. Well, if it was about state rights,
then why did Abraham Lincoln issue the Emancipa-
tion Proclamation which didn’t even affect theborder

federal government was encroaching on their prop-
erty, which of course included slaves. Yet, some
people just acknowledge and then quickly dismiss
it. Some people even believe that blacks should
revere the Confederate ﬂag because if there had not
been a Civil War, slavery would not have been
abolished. Hogwash!

After the Compromise of 1876, when Rutherford
Hayes agreed to take Union soldiers out of the
fomier Confederate states, black codes were estab-
lished that virtually stripped blacks of all their

Resumes

A resume workshop will be held
on Tuesday, September 28 at 4:00
p.m. in Room ‘108 of the University
Cemei=.. This workshop is open to
all students who need help with
their resumes. ‘

Interviews

Practice interviews will be held
on Tuesday, September 28 all day
in Room 109 of the University Cen-
ter. Sign-up is necessary before par-
ticipating in a practice interview.
Si gn-up in the_Career Development
and Placement Office.

463-RAPE.

Photos

There will be a meeting for any-
one interested in being a photogra-
pher for the W&L yearbook (Ca-
lyx) on Tuesday, September 28 at
6:30 p.m. in the Calyx office (Room
206 of the University Center). No
experience necessary! Assignments
will be given out at the meeting.

Calyx

For all students and faculty who

battle ﬂag say they’re celebrating their Southern states? It certainly rights. Somehow I don’t D ' d1’ did h°‘ ""'°°l"°-‘h¢h" 1993 C3134»
heritage. I’m all for celebrating one’s heritage, but wasn’t because he feel the urgent need to go ea lne morebookswillbearrivingshortly.
somehow I don’t see how displaying the Confederate wanted the immediate out and buy a Confederate , We apologize for the shortage.
flag is celebrating one’s Southern heritage. aboiition ofsiavei-y, He ﬂag. The resume drop date for Octo- '

This summerduring one of the Senate sessions,
Sen. Jesse Helms of North Carolina wanted his fellow
coﬂeagues to help celebrate his Southern heritage by
patenting an emblem that included the Confederate

flag for the gentle ladies of the Daughters of..thea

Confederacy. It had been done numerous times before

“h man chattel” —- simply property. Charges of
racism and political correctness were hurled at her.
Sen. Helms reportedly sang “Dixie” to her on the
elevator. But it didn’t matter. She was right.

When you continually see white supremacy groups
like the Ku Klux Klan waving them around proudly,
you begin to not like the Confederate flag very much.
Ye’, it’s not just redneck racists who display the ﬂag.
It’s supposedly intelligent human beings who refuse
to understand what that ﬂag represents to me. It
represents oppression. It represents a time when blacks
went by the name of either “nigger” or “boy.” A time
when blacks were inspected and auctioned off as if
they were pieces of meat. A time when black women

. .

«coin. wasn3't> opposed to

simply wanted to pre-
serve the Union and if
abolishingslaverycould
dothe job, sobe it. Lin-

slavery and 'mli¢»h<i asi he

Some people even believe
that blacks should revere the
Confederate ﬂag because if

rﬁtliere ‘had not been a Civil

However, more than
slavery, what really both-
ers me is that people per-
ceive the Civil War as

wasn’t. 620,000

would eventually end,

but he didn’t~think blacks

and whites could coexist. The war just forced his
hand. Besides the Emacipation Proclamation didn’t
really free the slaves because the border states were
not affected. It was not until the 13th Amendment that
slavery was abolished. This is not to say that Abraham
Lincoln was not a great man, but he was not perfect
either.

And does anyone think that if the South had won,
slavery would have been abolished? Maybe, but not
likely. Slavery was a part of theSouthem economy,
especially after Eli Whitney invented the cotton gin.
One of the reasons the South seceded was that the

cans were fighting each
other not some foreign enemy. Should we be proud
of that? Should we be proud of the fact that it took
a war to end approximately 300 years of human
bondage? Should we be proud of the fact that it was
a war that woke up our slumbering sense of moral-
ity? Yet, people continue to display the ﬂag as if
they ardently wish that the South had wori.

Well, sorry folks, the South lost, and the waris
over. Maybe America will move forward when we
finally face up to the fact the Civil War is not
something to celebrated but something to be re-
membered. Then maybe we as a nation will move
forward and not make the same mistake again.

LETTERS

Alpha Phi Omega president thanks freshmen

somethingﬂglpjrious‘. It’
‘ iK'ine,ri- .

C
To the Editor: V

On behalf of Alpha Phi Omega, I
would like to extend a sincere thank-
you to all those who participated in
Project Safe and Sound during fresh-

0

man orientation. .

Many residents of the Lexington
community have beneﬁted from your
hard work. Indeed, it is that sort of
effort that makes this town a better

place to live in and attend school. We
feel that this project was a tremendous
success, and based on this year’s expe-
rience, we look forward to continuing
it in the years to come.

TALKBACK

Thanks again, and congratulations
on a job well done.

Josh Cook ’95
President, Alpha Phi Omega

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

 

ber companies is September 30 in
the CD&P. '

v a

American Universities and Colleges
may do so by submitting the name
and qualifications of that student to
Dean Howison in Payne Hall 6 by
October 8. Criteria for selection to
Who’s Who include: (1) scholar-
ship, (2) participation and leader-
ship in academic and extracurricu-
lar activities, (3) citizenship and
service to Washington and Lee, and
(4) potential for future achievement.

Oxford

Washington and bee sends one
student each academic year to Uni-
versity College, Oxford, typically
during the junior year. Students

be juniors during the next academic
year (1994-95) are invited to seek
further information about the pro-
gram and application procedures

interested in the program who will -

Fulbrights

Seniors with 3.5 GPA and higher

»with no opposition. But this time things were a litw was oppij§8d"[(‘)‘{h'é ﬁjr- --.:~«War, slaverynwould 'll0t have N ”""I“‘ ;z‘:’a'hg‘die’d'fﬁ’th'5‘{'W5r cnio-re ' ’ «- '*Anyone- {who wishes ‘to nomi- who are interested in applying fora
different. Carol Mosely Braun, the first black woman thei-ex‘rengiondf5ia:vefy_ 'i'r:b>e‘en  liogwash»! ” ‘- ’ manta“-y‘ '(-“her in Ameri_ nate;_a memberof the current under- Fulbright grantfor next yearshould
to serve in the Senate, objected, citing the ﬂag as a There’s a difference, ' can history. Bmmore hm._ graduate senior class for selection see Professor Dickens in Tucker
sy bol of a time when blacks were nothing but He believed that slavery rjfying than that, Ameri_ to Who’s Who Among Students in 307. Deadlineforcompleted appli-

cations is Monday, October 11.

There will be a meeting or the J
AIDS Education Profect in Fairfax" ;

Lounge on Tuesday at 7 pm". New. ' .
members are urged to join. "  

Filmp

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce that
its next presentation will be the
acclaimed drama Gas, Food, and
Lodging (USA, 1993). Showings ,
will be at 8:05 p.m. on October 1
and 2 in the Troubadour Cinema.
There is no charge for admission. '

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

""i|._o,'..

‘ What does Lexington lack that would make it a more

Kathy Boozer, ’95, Columbia, SC. Kimberly

 

? exciting place to go to school?

Peterson, ’95,

 

Don Skelly, ’9?, Westport, Ct. —

Jeb Tilly, '94, Chapel Hill, NC. -

  

Lauren Brillante, ’95, Bowie, Md., and Kathy Savory, ’94, Idaho Falls,
Id.— ‘‘It lacks a dance club with male strippers.” .

Marshallville, Ga. -- “More places
to party when fraternities aren't hav-
ing parties.”

— “I wish we had a lake that we could
I waterski in.”

“A bar with some good ol’ fashioned
table dancing.”

“More cool cops like Officer Smith.”

 

O
The Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1993

 

 

Gal/lard PHYS Lenfest  Faculty cello recital

Pianist to perform classic pieces of Beethoven and Moussorgsky Introductory concert by visiting pro-

fessor featured selections from Ba-.
roque, Classical and 20th century

By David Wilmington
Phi Features Editor

_ By David Wilmington also studied at the Eastman School
Associate Professor of MUSIC Dr. . . of Music ag university of Ro¢he5_
Timothy Gaylard will give his annual Ph’ Features Edltor gen .
piano recital this Tuesday, S€Ptemb61' Washington and Lee got its first Brantley’s compostitions have
28 at 8:00 p.m. in the Lenfest Center. look at visiting music professor Paul been performed by such diverse en-
The program includes Brantley at his recital on Tuesday. sembles as the Atlanta Symphony,

Moussorgsky’s “Pictures at an Exhibi-

Brantley performed pieces for the Society for New Music, and the
tion” and Beethoven’s “Moonlight”

cello by Bach, Beethoven, and Syracuse Children’s Orchestra.

Sonata—twoofthe most popularpieces Debussy as well as contemporary Brantley has performed on cello
in the piano repertoire. Gaylard Will piecesby himselfand Daniel Godfrey. with the Eastman Musica Nova, we
also perfonn Samuel Barber’s “Four Pianist Arlene Shrut accompanied SocietyforNew Musicandthe Harry
Excursions for Piano Solo”. Brantley on three of the pieces. Jacobs Chamber Orchestra.
Gaylard’s recital has been One Of The program began with Shrut has received national
the best attended annual Music Depart- Beethoven’s “Sonata in C major”, accalaim as an accompanist and
ment events since hisﬁrst yearat Wash- Opus 102, No.1 and “Sonate pour voice coach. She is musical director
ington and Lee in 1984. In past years, Violoncelle et Piano” by Claude of the undergraduate opera program
he has performed other piano classics Debussy. at Julliard and a faculty member of
such as Rachmaninoff’s 2nd Piano Brantley’s piece was an arrange- the Manhatten School of Music.‘
Concerto and GershWin’S “Rhapsody ment of a hymn for unaccompanied Shrut has also served on the
in Blue”. cello titled “...crystal tide forever...”. staff of Syracuse University, USC,

Gaylard began his piano studies in
his native Canada, later earning two
degrees each from Carleton University
and the University of Toronto. He also
received a diploma from the world-
renowned Mozarteum in Salzburg,

The Godfrey “Arietta” was writ- Dartmouth, University of North
ten speciﬁcally for Shrut and Brantley Carolina, and the Opera Theater
during the time they taught at Syra- Center at the Aspen Music Festival.
cuse University. She has performed throughout

Brantley also perfonned Bach’s the United States and in Canada Qd
“Suite in G Major” for solo cello, one Europe. Her performances can be

Austria. Gaylard received his Ph.D. in of the staples of the cello repertoire. heard on the Orion, Centaur, and

musicology from Columbia Univer— Brantley is currently professor of Dorian recording labels.

sity. composition while Dr. Margaret March 26, Brantley willperform
He has performed on radio and tele- Brouwer is on leave for the year. He is the Boccherini “Concert in G” with

vision and has won awards for his teachingthesecondyearmusictheory the University-Rockbridge Sym-

playing in festivals and competitions course and indivdual composition les- phony Orchestra and guest condQp-
in the United States and Canada. His sons. tor/ﬂutist Avner Biron from Israel.
list of playing experiences also includes Along with his

performances with the orchestras of
Carleton, Columbia, and Washington
and Lee Universities as well as the
Ottawa Civic Symphony.

Gaylard’s musicological work in-
cludes studies of Mozart’s influence
on Beethoven and seventeenth-ce ntury
English vocal music.

Gaylard teaches advanced piano,

c 0 m p o s i t i o n
classes, Brantley
is teaching cello
and organizing
the Sonoklect
new music festi-
val. Sonoklect is
scheduled for
January 25-29 of

piano accompaniment, and various sur- ‘ 94,

vey courses in the Music department. Brantley re-
He is also director of the W&L ceived the Pablo

Concert Guild, a student organization Casals Award

that organizes a series of visiting artist while studying at

performances at the Lenfest Center.
While at W&L, Gaylard has also
volunteered his talents as an accompa-

the Manhatten
School and the
L e o n a r d

   

nist for student recitals. Bernstein Fellow-
The Tuesday recital is free and open sh i p while at
to the public. Tanglewood. He .

5 File Photo

  
   

  

       
   
 

               

O
0
0
O
The Euviro/rFarces That 1‘
Are Changing the Sahara Desert
..  nnnn W .
O
   
Monitor 6AppleKeyb0ard1l ColorMonitor6A1>/>16 Keyboard 11 Super TwistMonocbrome Display Monitor enppleaxiended rm,
:1: =1: Key ‘M-
$953 $1250 $12 78* $1483» .
Right now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh“ see just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus
personal computers. You can also get special student financing with Reseller today. And discover the power more college students I
the Apple” Computer l..o:mi“  to make owning 2. Mzic“ even etniitr '12; cl 10039. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your best?“  '
g 0 Q Q 0 0 O '
For further information visit UIl1V€1’S1ty Computing
in Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud ‘
or cail 463-884
 do    
Hzlaaiableloqualiﬁrrygstmkvik, at/1arIicr',oaIiI1gaulhorizetl/I/yr/it (,'m21/um /(me//w:\'. ©1993 /l/l/1ft’ (/rmz/mlwz /m‘ All riub/.v ruvur1'¢rl. .~l/7/7/L’. I/.n'.l/1/7/0 //W Jim: .l/(l('llI/!/.\’,.lIHl(/ /7.11’/Io!/1'1‘/1; /Ii’ nmrbm-/‘ z/11' rig:/Lvlrrr-ml /mzlmmriw o/‘.1/J/7/c (Sum/mlvr. Inc. .I/aciii/orb (.'enIr1Lmn1IPo14'erB0olz are trzulmmrkr 0fA[)/7/t‘ (lam/mler. Im: (.'I!l.i\‘iL'l\‘tI I‘l’,t'L\'Ir/I'('(//I‘1I(/('IIl1II‘k/it'r’IIXt»'(/I0.-I/I/Flt’Cllliwlllwi Im‘.

I

 

 

he_ Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1993

  
    
  

  

 
  
   
   

They Might Be Giants: John Flansburgh and Joh

By David Wilmington
Phi Features Editor

Tomorrow will find yet another
nationally known band playing _at
Washington and Lee.

They Might Be Giantswill bring the
live version of their brand of alterna-
tive pop to the Pavilion Saturday night

 

 
 

at 9:00. The concert is the result of a

joint effort by the Inter-Fraternity Coun-
cil, Student Activities Board, and As-
sociate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins to
provide entertainment on a rush week-
end. The concert was originally planned
as an IFC event but later received SAB
support. “The IFC was planning on
having something so that people

wouldn’t be tempted to dirty rush,”

 

 
  
 
   

 
  
 
  
 
  

 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
  
 
 
   

  
 
 
 

Party Picture Photographers Needed

 

Must have own 35 mm equipment & car
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

V; RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.

V’ Back yard skeet is fun, but compared to Sporting Clays,

 Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot

  

DO YOU ENJOY
. SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL

Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

it’s boring
At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
. to enjoy a round.

Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

 

n Linnell

Publicity Photo

 
TMBG features accordian, glockenspiel
  Ban shows off new and bigger sound Saturday at Pavilion

Valley  3

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

 

PAGE 5

said SAB chairman John Kleckley.
“They Might Be Giants was going to
be in the area and we got them for a
great price.”

Kleckley also noted that freshman
men going through rush will be al-
lowed to attend the concert.

They Might Be Giants is celebrat-
ing their tenth year with a new sound
and a new release. ‘

Until the middle of last year, the
albums and shows were mostly the
work of co-founders John Linnell and
John Flansburgh. A beefed-up band
and a more improvisational approach
mark a departure for the Brookly,NY
band.

In an interview Saturday, Linnell
said the new sound was a conscious
change.

“We’re leaning on the band to do
improv stuff which we couldn’t do
when it was just us two. But we didn’t
just hire a band, we kind of groomed
one.”

One of newest components in the
new sound, Steven Bernstein, is de-
scribed by the official TMBG press
release as a trumpet virtuoso. Linnell
described him as “a mixture of San
Francisco and New York. He has this
New York voice and San Francisco
‘Yo Dude’ voice.”

Linnell and Flansburgh discovered
Bernstein when he was referred to them
by another horn player.

“These brass players always sub
for each other. You don’t really hire
one, you hire a whole family” said
Linnell.

The band performing tomorrow
night will be the one Linnell and
Flansburgh have been touring with
since the middle of 1992.

The stop in Lexington is part of a
tour to support the band’s new ep, Why
Does The Sun Shine?( The Sun Is A
Mass Of Incandescent Gas). Though
recorded in a studio, Linnell said, the
new ep “was kind of a live perfor-
mance with the band.”

A new lp, to be released next spring,
will use this same approach. The new
sound is in contrast to the usual two-
man, overdubbed method that has made
TMBG famous.

The ep is being released in a new
format called CD-5. The CD-5 is so
new that even the recording artists

haven’t seen one. Linnell said, ‘‘I don’t
really know what that is. I haven’t even
met anyone who knows what a CD-5
is.” The only clue to the mystery comes
from the TMBG press release. It de-
scribes a»CD-5 as “like a 4 song ep only
silver and small.”

This small, silver disk includes the
new song “Spy” and covers of the Meat
Puppets’ “Whirlpool” and the Allman
Brothers’ “Jessica”. The title track was
taken from a 1959 educational record
called “Space Songs”.

They Might Be Giants debuted in
Soho, NY in 1983 in an all live duo
format. “John (Flansburgh) played gui-
tar. I played organ and clarinet and that
was the gig” said Linnell.

They released a 23-song cassette in
1985 and an 1p in 1986, both self-titled.
After two more eps the next year, they
released the lp Lincoln in 1988. For a
band with such a unique sound, their
big break came from an unlikely source-
MTV. In 1990, TMBG was awarded
the MTV Breakthrough Award for the
video of “lstanbul (Not
Constantinople)” from their third lp
Flood.

“Apart from my feeling about the
medium,” said Linnell, “MTV had a
big effect.”

After their big splash on MTV that
the talk show rounds began. TMBG
has appeared once on the Today Show
and twice on the Tonight Show. Their
three appearances on David Letterman
have probably proven their best venue
for gaining new fans. Linnell men-
tioned that they would probably per-
form on Lettennan’s show again after
their lp is released next spring.

The first characteristic of They
Might Be Giants that usually strikes
listeners as unique is probably their
lyrics. The songs defy characterization
in that they combine elements of word
play, social commentary, hilarious
word combinations, and strikingly ab-
surd poetic phrases.

For example, “Particle Man”, from
Flood, initially seems like a humorous
presentation of comic book themes:
“Triangle man, Triangle man/ Triangle
man hates particle man/ They have a
fight/ Triangle wins/ Triangle man/
Universe man, Universe man...” The
tone of the lyrics makes a sharp turn
however, when Person man is intro-

duced. “Person man, person man/ hit
on the head with a frying pan/ lives his
life in a garbage can/ Person man/ Is he
depressed or is he a mess?/ does he feel
totally worthless?/ who came up with
person man?/ degraded man, person
man...”

Musically, TMBG uses a great deal
of tongue-in-cheek humor. Many of
their melodies seem to be written as
lighthearted jingles to contrast with
sometimes darkly ironic lyrics.

Linnell and Flansburgh frequently
poke fun at themselves also.

The first song on Flood is called
“Theme From Flood” and features a
choral-style vocal with trombone ac-
companiment. Sung in a somewhat
serious manner, the lyrics read “Why is
the world in love again?/ Why are we
marching hand in hand?/ Why are the
ocean levels rising up?/ It’s a brand
new record for 1990./ They Might Be
Giants’ brand new album:/ Flood.”
Obviously, Linnell and Flansburgh are
in no danger of taking themselves too
seriously.

The instrumentation of the band
reinforces their position as one of the
most unique groups on the pop scene.
Linnell’s primary instrument is the ac-
cordion, but he doubles on baritone
sax. Drummer Brian Doherty adds an
interesting new dimension to the show
with his glockenspiel playing.

Another original aspect of TMBG
is their “Dial-A-Song” service. Since
1983, fans have been able to call 718-
387-6962 to hear unreleased songs at a
regular long distance rate.

Audiences have managed to make
their own addition to the TMBG im-
age. For some reason, people like to
slam dance at their concerts. This prac-
tice is not always appreciated by the
band.

“lt’s good that kids have a way to
have fun, but it’s kind of disappointing
especially during the quiet songs..,”
said Linnell, “they’re not listening.”

TMBG will roll into Lexington in
their usual unconventional manner.
Where as most bands have a convoy of
tour buses, Linnell explained that they
opted for an alternative method of trans-
portation.

“We have a Crown Victoria, a Ryder
rental truck, and a couple of vans. It’s
a mighty caravan.”

College

Bring your Horse to

Stabling available just off W&L "
Campus. Full Board/ Large Riding
Arena/ 80 Acres of Trials/
Lessons Available
Phone #’s 463-2194 (Day)
463-1859 (Evening)

   

KK

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

iiiiitmnnis
lllllllllll

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

y

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 464-6620 (Barn)
(K W&L Art V
Signatures:
ii“§i.‘l‘g“ L“ J h.‘f'L’“i.'.Ei‘iE.
. I
Edward xzientme 0 R. E. Lee, Jr. ' Every MOnday
Sam Houston A. P. Hill

Lexington's
lively Bistro
and
Outdoor Patio.

   

5 "9 P 0 m 0
Now Accepting Reservations I
for Parents’ Weekend

Point Cards available - Charge them
Home!

Harbs’

19 West Washington Street

- o
(7o3)_ 464 190 I

 

ALVIN-DENNIS,
102 W WASHINGTON ST.

INC.

. IS CELEBRATING 30 YEARS IN BUSINESS WITH A 30th ANNIVERSARY SALE SEPT. 24th & 25th
30% OFF SUITS & SPORTCOATS, DUCKHEAD SHORTS, & KNIT SHIRTS
REGISTER FOR DOOR PRIZES TO BE GIVEN AWAY SEPT. 24th & 25th.

’ ** THIS IS A GREAT TIME TO BUYA NEW SUIT FOR UPCOMING INTERVIEWS!
PRIZE--- CQMPLIMENTS OF
|/Suit ontsky
g/Blue Blazer B°Wd0n
t/Outerwear Jacket Forest Club

' /Ray-Ban Sunglasses Bauch & Lomb
/Dirty Buck Shoes Walkwer
5/Pin Point Cotton Shirt §§1‘°1 . h
gggegieg , Dﬁﬁtéliad

a 1 an s .
  
& much more
Monday - Saturday 9 - 5:30 MASTERCARD 463-5383 STUDENT CHARGE

 

NEWS

An artist's rendition of the new science center, to be placed between Parmly and Howe Halls

 cuts most budgets

I->EC, from page 1

Amnesty International
refused to allow the Col-
lege Republicans to have a
pro-death penalty display.

Rambeau countered,
saying it made sense for
Amnesty International to be
opposed to the death pen-
alty because they are a hu-
man rights organization.

“We are now punishing
a group for what they did
last year,” said Rambeau.
As for Publications, The
Ring-tum Phi asked for
$11,100, but Hackney im-

mediately motioned that-

$l,500 for student assis-
tance and the $5,000 cush-
ion fund be cut. A total of
$4,605 was allocated to the
newspaper. ‘

The Trident asked for
$11,900 and received
$7,105, $2,500 which ‘the
EC allocated to buy a com-

puter. The computer will be
purchased with money from
the Student Telephone
Unionl Student Power Union
fund. STU/SPU was dis-
banded last year by the EC,
which reclaimed all of its
funds.

Ariel asked for $2,280

and ended up with $2,000. '

The Calyx asked for $51,000
and received $28,600. The
Journal of Science asked for
and was given $950. The
Political Review requested
$1,020 and received $900.
Contact received $30,000
and a separate $8,000 fund
designated for ‘speakers.
This “speaker fund” was in-
creased by $500 over last
year and can be accessed by
several campus organiza-
tions. Contact must take pro-
posals from these organiza-
tions and decide which
speaker they should acquire
with the money.

The controversial new
Men’s Panel, a counterpart
to the Women’s Forum, re-
ceived $250. A motion to
allocate $500 for the new
group failed. At least one
EC member at first believed
the Men’s Panel budget re-
quest to be a joke, but real-
ized the organization was
legitimate after seeing that
the group had planned for
serious discussions, includ-
ing speeches by campus
deans.

The Student Bar Asso-
ciation received $48,000 af-
ter a lengthy debate, with
law students on one side and
undergraduates on the other.
EC Vice President Jimmy
Kull argued that law stu-
dents’ activities fees were
being given to the SBA in
disproportionate amounts.
Webb argued that the social
life of a law student is radi-
cally different from that of

an undergraduatestudentand
that law students would have
little to do without the SBA.

“Imagine if you lived in
Lexington and the only thing
you could do was go to the
Palms,” he said. “If you
want to sit in a bar with 100
Veemies looking for intel-
lectual stimulation — good
luck!”

After doling out the big
bucks to the campus organi-
zations, the EC found itself
only $168 overbudget. That
amount was covered by a
reserve fund. However, the
EC managed to completely
deplete the STU/SPU fund,
which was originally ear-
marked to help pay for the
Pavilion. Kull said he felt
the fund was meant to con-
tribute to long-term con-
structive expenses and said
he was against “blowing the
whole thing in one year.”

Domino’s
dumps card

I->DOM|llO’S, from page 1

—dent charge program since Wallace
“could afford to lose some money on
the card system because [Wallace] has
11 other Domino’s locations, [but] I
can’t with only one location.”
Currently, the University meal card
system is provided by the Grifﬁn Com-
pany. The university learned of
Domino’s decision to discontinue the
service when an employee of Griffin’s

competitor found the machine lying ,

unplugged and unused at the store.
Both Pizza Hut and Frank’s Pizza
felt slighted by not being included in
the trial run, but neither was willing to
put the money in for the lease. Pizza
Hut Manager E.R. Smith said owner
Hugh Cosnerwas “disgusted that W&I
did not contact him in the beginning.”
Pizza Hut learned of the system
from a W&Lstudent who worked there
at the time. However, when contacted
by Cuny, Cosner felt the cost was not
worth it. Tony Scotto-Di-Rinaldi at
Frank’s Pizza agreed. He said he
couldn’t afford to give 15 percent to

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

Professor Michael Evans is the new
head of the Washington and Lee math
department. g

“I think it was a wise move by the
department. Evans seems to have a
very positive attitude and has been
active and involved with students,”
said Heather Leonard, a math major.

Evans is teaching Math 101 and
Math 221 this term He said he chose to
teach lower level courses so he could
get to know the curriculum from the
ground up.

Evans was chosen as head of the
math department at W&L after being
the director of undergraduate programs
and professor of mathematics at North
Carolina State University. ‘

J Evans made math head

ested in working at Washington and
Lee because of .the small classes and
close contact with his students.

“I was especially impressed by the
Honor Code and by the town,” Evans
said.

As department head, Evans said he
wants to continue to educate
students,and to encourage high per-
sonal contact between math students
andprofessors. He does not plan any
changes for the math curriculum, al-
though he does want to institute more
special programs like the use of Maple,
a high-tech computer program now
used in Math 221 classes

Evans, as the department head, is
the recipient of the Rupert and Lillian
Radford Endowed Professorship. He
hopes to use some money from the
endowment to bring in more speakers
and to enable students to participate in
more competitions.

Evans said he ﬁrst became inter-

 

  

 

rI¢\

The Fling-tum Phi, September 24, 19.33

 

Science center to be
completed in 2001 '

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Whenthe class of 2001 arrives, they
will probably be taking most of those
cumbersome science courses in the new
science center, according to Frank Par-
sons, director of capital planning.

The estimated $20—21 million
project will include the renovation of
Howe Hall and Parmly Hall as well as
the construction of a new science cen-
ter.

According to Farris Hotchkisss,
Vice President of University Rela-
tions, the target is that the building cost
no more than $20 million.

Parsons said that the biology and
physics/engineering departments will
move to Howe

Hall while the computer science
center and psychology will move to

Parmly Hall. Also, the science li-
brary will be expanded, and extra class-
rooms will be added for ﬂexibility in
class schedules. The science centerwill
house new quarters forthe geology and
chemistry departments, said Parsons.

Hotchkiss said that the idea for the
new science center came when faculty
realized that the current facilities were
inadequate and old. Parmly Hall is 30
years old and Howe Hall is 60 years
old.

“The two of them are not large
enough to accomodate the sciences,”
said Hotchkiss.

He said the two buildings needed to
be modernized. When the project is
done, all three buildings will be con-
nected to make one.

The Board of Trustees will meet in
late October to determine if enough
money has been raised for the project.

Hotchkiss says that $5 million has
been raised and will be used as a match-
ing challenge to raise another $5 mil-

lion. Formal fundraising has not yet .

begun because a booklet for publicity
is being prepared with plans for the
building and descriptions.

The funding for the project is being
done in conjunction with $127 million
capital campaign for Washington and
Lee University. According to

Hotchkiss, there are 48 geographic cam--

paigns and 500 volunteers.

However, Hotchkiss said, “Ourcam-
paign is a personal effort.”

Parsons expects contractors to start
bidding on the project in May, and
actual construction is likely to be in
next summer.

Parsons estimates that project will .

take four years to complete.

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring~tum Phi

The new Sig Ep house in Davidson Park. The old house will go on the market within two weeks.

Old Sig Ep house for sale

By HILLARY OLsoN
Phi Staff Writer

T e o d Sigma Phi Epsilon house
will officially enter the real estate
market within two weeks, said
Lawrence Broomall, University Trea-
surer.

The university is currently negoti-
ating with local real estate firms and is
still cleaning up the house.

The new Sig Ep house is located in

 

VMI seeks solution
to co-education issue

Davidson Park, which is probably a
better social location, admitted senior
Sig Ep brother Jamie Hambrick.
Hambrick lived in the old house for
two years.

“I had great affection for it, but the
new one is good. Our old one would
have been really hard for the univer-
sity to renovate,” he said.

Hambrick said he may not learn to
love the new location but he hopes his
younger fraternity brothers will.

“We don’t have the best real estate
market to sell the house,” said Broomall.
“Four other homes in the area have
been on the market for years.”

The fraternity house is also rather
unique in the neighborhood so the time
of the house’s sale is almost impossible
to predict. ,

A speedy buyer would be welcome,
however, said Broomall, because the
proceeds of the house’s sale have been
included in this year’s fiscal budge:

W&L in top 20 colleges

bW&L, from page 1

From Staff Reports

Virginia Military Institute may have found a solution to
its legal troubles - with Southern Virginia College for

Women.

The Richmond Times-Dispatch reported that VMl’s
lawyers have been meeting with the presidents of SVCW in .
Buena Vista and Mary Baldwin College in Staunton to

explore solutions to VMl’s problems.

the other schools were then translated into a .
percent of the top score with the schools ranked in
descending order.

W&L had an overall score of 84, and was ranked
25th for academic reputation. W&L scored a seven
for student selectivity and an 11 for faculty re-
sources, but scored 48th for financial resources.
W&L ranked number 32 in graduation rank, with its

    

   

W&L and ‘he §‘a““‘f‘P F05,‘ “'35 ‘O0 The Fourth Circuit Court ruled that VMI must admit alumni satisfaction rank at 63. The average SAT .
mg” He also smd he “:9” ‘ lose any women, go private, or start a parallel program for women score for students attending W&L is 1258_
m°3°Y_ f1'°m.:h° 5)_'r5‘°m- r Lat elsewhere in Virginia. In May, the Supreme Court refused ofw&L’sfrcshrnan class, 69 pcrccntwcrc in the
““'e”“_ 3’ r°_as‘",° , , ry to hear VMl’s appeal of the Fourth Circuit Court ruling. top 10 percent of their high school class_
Bmomau sald the umvemty '5 m the President John W. Ripley of SVCW was quoted by the W&L accepts only 29 percent of its applicants
process of reviewing the system“ cur- Richmond Times-Dispatch as saying that housing female and has 10/1 student/teacher ratio. w&L also has a
renlly‘“P1a°°a“f1a"°:V5yS‘em’ may cadets at a nearby college is a possible solution to the highly educated faculty;96 Pei-centhnvcadoctoi-ate
be in place by winter. The new sys- pr0b]em_ degree_ a
tem, according to Cuny, would give VMl’s lawyers are expected to present a plan to U.S. Each W&L student has a $14, 695 gducaﬁonal
W&L the optlon t° buy ‘he needed District Court Judge Jackson Kiser on Monday to resolve program
eqmpmem 3‘ P‘_1°°S m“°h l°w°’ man the problem and bring VMI into compliance with federal Graduation rate stands at 83 percent, and 37
Eugen‘ ‘°?5° P"°°5' The same would law. The governor must approve any plan that VMI pre- percent of alumni give to w&L_
0 true or any area merchants who sents, or he can formulate one of his own. VMl’s Board of
w°'_-‘Id  "“°‘°5‘°d '“ a°°°P‘"‘8 ‘he Visitors will meet tomorrow with their attorneys to discuss
University Card for purchases. the ohm .
........._C.C................0’.......C..0.’.0................C....‘..OCCCCOCCC  G 
- 0 3 N
Chinese Restaurant |:|" "0' " f|
~ ..   - : 0 A : ~
,   Jena. .9: ﬂew. :wIth copy of:
this ad '
L 2 2 _ — 2 - 2 J
W

HP

 

air
9

   

Take out or eat in! 7
Open Seven Days a Week! 11 a.m. until 10 pm.

Ftockbridge Square
(behind McDonald's)
East. Nelson Street 463-3330

Speciafizing in
:71/unczn Cb’ Szecﬁuan
Cuisine

 

 

    
      
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  

e ﬂin « -tum Phi, September 24 1993

WATSON, from page 1

s collecting.

While a student in Paris at the Lycee de St.
ud and the Ecole Lafayette, Watson pur-
= ecfan ivory netsuke ﬁgure. ‘‘I loved France,”
said.

Watson acquired her high school education
t. Catherine’s in Richmond, Virginia.
After graduation from Radcliffe, Watson
rked as a teacher, for WAVES in Washing-
, D.C. and later worked in German Naval
elligence.

It was in 1947 that her link to Washington
and Lee was solidified, when she married the
late William Watson, a 1929 Washington and
Lee graduate.

William Watson was first in his class in
graduate school and the senior class president
at Washington and Lee.

He was also a member of Delta Tau Delta
fraternity, Alpha Sigma—~an honorary fresh-
man English society, the Troubador Theater
Club, a member of the gym team and the
Interfratemity Council, and received a Spanish
scholarship his junior year in college.

Being involved at school paid off for Will-
iam, when a Delta Tau Delta brother introduced
Elizabeth to him.

The couple moved to the Island of Shameen
in Canton, China in 1946 after being married in
the Lady Chapel of the English Cathedral.
William was working for the Standard Oil
Company in administration. There, Watson
began serious collecting.

“I think the Far East is the up and coming
country now,” Watson said,who was socharrned
by the Far East that she refused Standard Oil’s
offer to furnish the Watson’s apartment, desir-

ing instead to furnish her home with native arts.

Thus began the Watson collection, most of
which is now on exhibit in the Pavilion.

Elizabeth Watson gave Washington and Lee
her gift for two reasons, one being that her
husband attended the university.

“I think he’d be awfully pleased,” she said.

Watson also desired to promote an aware-
ness of the Far East.

“I hope this will promote an interest in East
Asian culture... art, philosophy, religion, etcet-
era,” she said.

,avilion collection considered unique

time I walked in [to the Watson Pavilion],” said
Brian Shaw, director of communications at
Washington and Lee. “[The Watson Pavilion]
adds another dimension to this place, a dimen-
sion that other small colleges don’t have.”

“I’m perfectly delighted with it. I couldn’t
be more pleased,” said Watson.

Good cheer and admiration, however, have
not been the only feelings that have surrounded
the Pavilion. Last year controversy erupted
over the placement of the Pavilion when some
students argued that it would obstruct the Col-
onnade.

 

    
  
  
   
 
        

J a m e s
Whitehead felt the
Pavilion would
have a definite im-
pact on academia at
W&L. “It will be
utilized by many
departments,” he
said. According to
Whitehead, just by
studyingthecollec-
tion one can
glimpse the “eco-
nomic, political,
social and reli-
gious” import of
East Asia.

Watson herself
was embroiled in
the economic and
political turmoil
China experienced

Headlines like “There goes the neighbor-
hood” and “Keep additions off the hill” con-
veyed the feelings of some of the students,
which seem to have changed now that the
Pavilion has opened.

“I understood the nature of the controversy

but was puzzled that the drawings available
really made it clear that [the Watson Pavilion]
would never intrude [on the Colonnade],” said
Dr. Tom Litzenburg, director of the Reeves
Center and Watson Pavilion.
Litzenberg feels that “as a piece of architecture,
it [the Pavilion] is extraordinary.” He also felt
that the Palladian architecture complements the
surrounding buildings very well.

“I think it [the controversy] was good for the
students. I would hope that those who were
concerned would visit the Pavilion,” said Shaw,
who felt that students would then see “what a
real treasure the Watson Pavilion is for Wash-
ington and Lee.”

Watson, who is humble about her achieve-
“fheﬂ ‘he C0mml}- ments, impressed Mr. Whitehead “because of
msts I001‘ OVCT 1" her interest and knowledge in Oriental ceram-
1949 and they icsj’
m°Ved to H0718 The word interest is an understatement—
K°"8- the enthusiasm and excitement in Watson’s

_ In ff’-C1, ill‘? 59' voice as she talks about the Far East tellsastory
0131 5111133100 1" in itself. East Asia wasWatson’s true love.
‘China had 3 direct “Peking used to be so charming,” she said.
1mP3°t 0“ It was in 1968 that the Watsons again be-
_w3tS°n’5 Collect" came heavily involved with W&L, when they
“‘8- P°°P1° were met James Whitehead and helped him identify

Selling family h°lT' several items in the Reeves collection.

1001115 in 0Td¢|" 10 Thisinvolvementbecamethe Watson Pavil-

buy food I0 SUTVIVC ion, the extension of the Reeves Center that is

and She began t_0 “a magnificent addition to the beauty of this

P“T°h‘}3_° from CW’ campus” according to Dr. Whitehead.

11953 C"1Z¢“S- According to Dr. Litzenburg, other donors
W3t_50n eV°mU' of the displays currently in the Pavilion are Mr.

311)’ built UP 3T€PU' W. Groke Mickey from Charlottesville, Mr.

tation for being an

and Mrs. .1. Bolton McBride from Blacksburg,
excellent collector

Mrs. William L. Wilson from Lynchburg, and

and ham’-fer, Mrs. Felicia Warburg Rogan.
3m355l“8 3 b°3Uti' Watson plans to invite “a lot of people in
ful collection.

Lynchburg and friends whose husbands went
to Washington and Lee,” and others to the Oct.
23 dedication of the Watson Pavilion.

“I was over-

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi whelmed the first

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

PUT YOUR VALIIABLES
IN A SAFE PLAGE.

IAOTONOYOLE OPEIATON LIOENSE

Howard G. Nichols
8381 Center Ave.
Hometown 27670

‘"7 ‘’7/7; ' .
A§;1.<<f4’. . 

ANY STATE, USA

wnru DRINKING can A FRIEND. 
on em mm: wlru A srnnuarn. A   S

YOU SAY YOU OAN RIDE?
PROVE IT.

       
     
 

Helmets make riding more comfortable and funfltleon saier. In a crash
without one, you are five times as likely to suffer a serious head injury

than a helmeted rider. No matter how short your ride, wear a helmet. It’s
the best protection for your most valuable asset. MOTIIIIGYGLE SAFETY roumriou .,

Drinking and riding can lead to a loss of license, a conviction, or even worse.
'I‘hat’s if you’re lucky. The fact is, 30% of motorcycle fatalities involve

riders who have been drinking. So if you have been drinking, get a ride
Bith a friend. It’s the best call you can make. uoroncvcir SAFETY roumnoii e

A rgotorcycle operator license is more than a legal document. It’s proof
that you are a rider of a certain caliber. Statistics show that unli-

censed riders account for 80% of the fatalities in some states. So get é
your license and prove that you can ride. uoroncvcu sum roumriou ®

      
 

     
      
     

  

    

   

    

  
  

. Pianist Wanted
FRATS! SORORWIES! Jazz, Classical Honky Tonk ‘Tag 25 WAYS GROUPS!
STUDENT GROUPS! Play for food at Harbs’ - +0 he SN CLUBS:
Raise as MuchasYou morning, 110011, evening, LP em Raise up to $500 to
want In One Week’ C t t&SS1lI1da)’ ‘l]31'[1lI1C]16 4 1900 GAR11-t CALL $1500 in less than a
  1500!  0 n - ' '
 gnlac usanoim I-800-433-9337. ‘§§§‘§S‘;};‘,;;V;;‘,:a‘,??9§°
:~i1e(izvne§»fiMii§:iiza:§e:3:iJiTi—:. ﬂ    and get a FREE T-shirt
 c£laIN:y for FREE "(J ‘A ‘ l':m"“7“‘"M' E,,,,,s,m_'_ just for calling
T'5“”RT 5‘ '9‘ GMC "MMY'  1-800-950-1039 ext. 65
Call I-800-950-l 039, ext, 75. N

               
  
 

CATALOG
OUTLET

Lexington 17 South Main St.

Famous Men’s & Women ’s Apparel and Shoes from
America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order Companies. New
Shipments Every Week. Experience the Thrill of
Saving 50% to 80% off of Catalog Prices. Guaranteed.

Hours: Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 463-9730

   
 
   
  
  

         

   

'7'‘ V
5055 O

EXCEPTIONAL
g OPPORTUNITY

FIFTY PERCENT PARTNERSHIP IN
g CAMPUS LINEN SERVICE
BEING OFFERED FOR STUDENT PURCHASE

   
    
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
        
  

 
 

 
  

   
     

 

-G ' aluable professional experience in marketing, _, Join f om.
maalrlrdgfement, and sales while operating your own proﬁtable T“ ’ Sunseutssogecial
business. WILLSQN-  Eaill iéél mesday _ Saturday 5‘
.Earn a 12% to 15% return on your investment in this well L’ guhslé 13 R    5:306:30 p_m_ A 
established business that has been owned and operated by ,.,,,,,,,,,., ‘ﬁ_l_ﬁ!ﬁ_l_ $1000 per person Vegetarian
Washington and Lee students for over 30 years. mns& Eatery
_ ~ entree and beverage. V
-Provide the desperately needed clean hnerli andltplxlzéelsrtoog
fellow  student_s_wh1le acqulljlng prlce ess S ’ p 30 N. Main St., Lexington Reservations Recommended 463-3020 Nourish yourself
your own marketability, and earning money. _ for lunch
, .For more information please contact:  Monday - Friday
T‘ 11:30 to 3:30

Gene Pride ‘92

P.O. Box 1962
Telluride, CO 81435
(303) 728-2083

Carry Out
Available
463-2800

110 W. Washington St.

THE BEST SELECTION OF W84. T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
HATS AND OTHER W84 SPORTVIEAR
lEX|ll6lOll'8 ONLY SOURCE FOR IEVAS ANO NERRIIJ. BOOTS

15 w. wnsumcrou SI‘. VIE D0 MAIL ORDER!
uaxmerou 103 464-3000

 
 

t
ob

 

 
 

C

. PAGE 8

Hams TGGIBI

MEANS LOW PRICES

 

Volleyball off to good start

QUALITY AND VAIETY
BRYAN HONEY CR

COOKED
HAM

99 
oR TURKEY ~.;. ~

BREAST _ .,

3 I-40 COUNT

EJHWEE
Eﬂﬂmﬂﬂ

    
   
 

   

LB.

THOMPSON

WHITE SEEDLESS
GRAPES

 

DIET COKE OR
COCA COLA

 
 

2 LITER

Enjoy

I la?-

Trademarks ®

 

 

 

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE
SOFT
DRINKS

2 I.TR.

   

SELECTED VARIETIES
I.AY'S
POTATO CHIPS

  
 

6 OZ.

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE All NATURAL OR
UXE

D
$HEI.l.5& CHEESE .... ..l2 oz.

'22

c'?zIeEAé4i7lTlEXE'I2zM/CELII OR 4/  O

SPAGHEITI ................ ..l 6 oz.
78%-*I$’i’2‘iu 2 oo
BARS ........................ ..l2 CT.

IN THE DELI-BAKERY

KAISER 25
ROLLS ................ ..6 COUNTO

EXTRA STRENGTH
TY LENOI.
A GELCAP5

29

 
  
 

24 COUNT

HUNTER FARMS
ICE MILK
BARS  

2/
I2

COUNT

  

TROPICANA PURE PREMIUM
ORANGE
JUICE

99

ALL

54 °Z- VARIETIES

 

Prices Effective Through September 28 I993

Prices In This Ad Ellective Wednesday, _5eptember 22 Througso _
' OnIy.We Reserve The Right To LImIt Quantities. None Id To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

Tuesday, September 28 I993. In

Lexington Stores

The Ring-tum Phl, September 24, 1999

0

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Before falling in straight sets to
Guilford Sept. 22, the Washington and
Lee volleyball team had equaled its
best season start ever, in 1988.

But at the end of the week, the Lady
Generals had dropped to 5-3, still a
stellar mark for a season beginner, with
a brand-new coach and some brand-
new stars.

Senior Tara Bums made a season-
high 10 kills in the Generals’ win against
Sewanee in the Washington and Lee
Invitational last weekend.

W&L defeated the University of the
South 2-1, Roanoke 3-0 and Catholic
University 2-0 in its home invitational
Sept. 18-19.

The Generals fell to Pitt-Johnstown
2-0 and Goucher 2-0 in the same week-
end.

After Tuesday’s match, sophomore
Kelly Horan led the team in aces with
14, closely followed by junior Jenny
Queen with 13.

Sophomore setter Cheryl Taurassi
has made 131 assists so far this season.

The Generals play at home versus
Eastern Mennonite Sept. 28.

Schaeffer tops field

You’ve heard of average winning
margins, I am sure, in sports such as
basketball and football. But cross coun-
try?
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer
won her second meet in her second
start last weekend, this time by over
two minutes. This brings her season
average to 1227.5 seconds.

Unfortunately, Schaeffer’s perfor-
mance could not bring her team a vic-
tory in its tri-meetwith Mary Washing-
ton and Shepherd College, as the Gen-
erals fell short of MWC by only three
points Sept. 18.

Schaeffer’s time of 18:43 is her best
of the season (though last week’s time
was set on a course slightly longer than
5000 meters). She was followed by
Mary Washington’s Laura Douglas;
sophomore Amy Mears and junior Kim
Herring also ﬁnished in the top ﬁve for
the Generals.

Juniors Sue Deutsch and Teresa
Lamey finished in tenth andeleventh
place.

Injured men fall to MWC

Up against Mary Washington Col-
lege as well, the men’s cross country
team fell into second place as two run-
ners sat out with injuries.

Sophomore captain Tom Fink was
the top runner for the Generals, ﬁnish-
ing in sixth place with a 29:34.

Cheering on the sidelines were in-
jured junior Matthew Brock and fresh-
man Sandy Hooper. The two were lucky

J OCKSHORTS

to escape the muddy course, which
caused several W&L runners to slip
and fall.

Washington and Lee faces Christo-
pher Newport this weekend.

Water polo in California

Leading 18th-ranked Slippery Rock
in the fourth quarter, the Washington
and Lee water polo team failed to stop
the Rockets from scoring four con-
secutive goals to win a heartbreaker,
23-20.

W&L was down 15-8 in the third
quarter when they rallied to take a 20-
19 lead on freshman James SilbeIstein’s
two-point goal. After seven games,
Silberstein has already been the ‘top
scorer twice.

The Generals topped Villanova in
their second match-up of the season,
16-15. The game highlight was a length
-of-the-pool two-point goal by sopho-
more goalie Dane Merkel, capping a
ﬁrst half rally.

W&L heads to California this week-
end to face Claremont and Pomona.

Women open season

Junior All-American Marilyn Baker
will lead the women’s tennis team as it
opens the 1993-94 season this week-
end at Catholic University in Washing-
ton, D.C.

Men’s tennis hosts again

Defending their Rolex Regional
doubles title this weekend, senior
Robby MacNaughton and sophomore

Peter Hammond hope to lead the host
Generals to the head of the Rolex tour.
nament.

For three consecutive years, W&L
has hosted the tourney and won either
the singles or doubles title.

Women’s soccer wins big

Crushing, dominating——These ar
words that have been used to describe
the 1993 women’s soccer team. After
rolling to three straight wins, all by
shutout, the Generals have served no-
tice that they are a power in the ODAC
(2-0 record).

. The most recent victim of the W&L
attack was Hollins College, falling 8-0
on Wednesday night. Two goals each
from Corinda I-Iankins, Kate Burton,
and Michelle Bauman paced the as-
sault. The Generals’ strong start con-
jures vivid hopes of postseason play.

Washington and Lee improves to 4-

1 on the season with their third straiglﬁ
dominating performance. The Lady
Generals are easily off to the best start
of any fall sports squad. The stiﬁing
defense has combined with several scor-
ing threats to provide an exciting and
promising 1993 team.

0
Golf hosts Fall Classic
Washington and Lee golf begins its
1993-94 season this weekend as the
Generals host the W&L Fall Classic at
the Lexington Golf and Country Club.
Seniors Jimmy Kull, Scott
Robinson, Pearce Smithwicl: and B0
Williams all return this year to lead the
Generals.

For the very
first time..
ever... -

The W&L Bocci Ball Tourney
begins today, September 24
Watch the mighty Ring-tum Phi °'

  face

   

5 p.m. on Lee-Jackson lawn

Bocci.
Catch the Fever.i

O

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1993,} ’
SPORTS '

__ V , , .._ _._ _.e, _.,.. ..-.—-..-e... r
_.‘__'_?J ‘T "‘,‘<_ d_r_,___r._,_ _, e_. _._.g,,  ., __ ,.. .« ..-.x... .--..-g -.~.~..».-4. -X F ' 9 -‘H’

photo by Bemany smim 7-he R,-,,g_;um phi Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fiing-tum Phi
Members of the Washington and Lee men’s soccer team battle against the Wasps of Emory and Henry Sept. 21 in the Generals’ fifth game and first win of the season, played at W&L.

A. » v
‘ I " \ ’ ..-- .. ~e-u-JNH-—-PJ*J'i‘v‘i‘I‘
L.‘ ..¢..~, or:2-vjéazrrr:-I.1-.i~»:snR-nxxt«xx!~svxa-.~_- A -'-.- - I

\‘“

SELLTl§II;lSlI1l3JA(l§NB(§‘ES3I,:.I§ g)(z)tFREEw in V H A  g 1' SKYDIVEH . Wanted: Campus Representative .
, istudentlﬁaveiggeﬁikééfis  K “:..,]lg_,£,'ti’-gg ¢§gpeﬁgnne,&,experﬁse a£r~your..,Instructore .    -A“

V important? Make our first jum under the - ' _ ’ p
can (800) 6484849 tutelage of the an1y}fwo Instructofas at Skydive (vacatlon Packages) Earn cash &

Orange certiﬁed in all three disci lines; Static Line, FREE tri (S)° Cancun ' Bahamas '

Tandem 8: Accelerated Freefall. ou can freefall up S.Padre Is and - Daytona. We handle
to 60 seconds your first skydive! Call toll free for

b h 1 800 484 7400“ wh h th bookkee ing i‘/you handle sales.
I'OC L1l'€. - - - 811 011 831‘ 8 °
tone dial 5531; or call (703) 94 -8988 1'800'336' 26 Onday thm Fnday

(9 a.m. - 5 p.m.).

 Restaurant (C""""""" 0'”) K

261-7292

a has I! T   2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista - (Behind Pim Hut) vI1}1e

*1°5"ANY 53°“ Point of View 
Aladdin ‘-

Rated 0 Restaurant
Shows Sat. & Sun. 1 & 3 p.m.

~‘«~r'~&~r 

5 _-.

B  Hocus Pocus NM mmysnmmmwm

463-7797
 Shows Daillyadfg  & 7 p.m.

Friday & Saturday Nights Robin Hood: Men in Tights Elegant Setting
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.‘ Rated PG-13 l

Sh ' D '1 9 . . °FmestSi=aks
Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. °w'"g 3' y at P m

- Fresh Seafood
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 463-3478 “A"Y°"°a"Ea'” °P°rkRibs
BOTFOMLESS BUCKET . Bmqueg Facilities
Q00 OF POPCORN $3 K

Iudge Advocate Program

0 Immediate trial practice

9.‘  E 9‘ 4- ‘- '- '  Q. 1. oz . s. it. 45:1-.-I-.\_s.%.~..~i'-1'-*' -eh-‘-‘ * -1‘ W
.—.i‘

0 Three—year student loan

, deferment.
0 Excellent starting salary,

full medical & dental benefits 0 Immediate commission upon

  in   l V I _ completion, of 10-week
S‘p€@l'alS . Law School “me Counted Officer Candidates School
---Cassette Singles Special — - 3 for $9.00—- for promotion
$2.00 Off CDs, $1.00 Off Cassettes for these releases: Aerosmith-GetA

Grip, Soul Asylum-Grave Dancers Union, Prince-Hits - 1 or 2, Illegal-The ° Naval Justice School . Diversity
Untold Truth, Garth Brooks-In Pieces, Aaron Tippin-Call of the Wild. guaranteed

Scorpions - Face the Heart
Nirvana - In Utero
Abba - Gold
Cure - Show
Yes - Best of
Led Ze pelin - Box Set 2‘

an Many More! , nieiew. 77iePmud. T71eMan'nes.
, ‘ For more information on Officer Pro rams, Ieas ll
. ©0Ini]@S fiﬂnl Captain Graham at 1—800—5{i2—585i or (7O3)3§7—194§coi|:cCtato set up an
Valiant, Image, Marvel, D.C., and others. New selection arrives every mterwew “me 'm.erV'eW5 "Y'“ be C°”d“Cted 0” October 5”‘
‘ Thursday. in the University Center.

We also carry Trading cards, T—shirts, Magazines, Movies, and Video
Games: Nintendo and Sega.

‘“¢"$'_-C ,_.-V,.y- rguwsv i-.vv-r >9;-,rrr_vir9.z..r.>r,-:zv.o:¢:.-r.

0 30 days annual paid vacation

, ykje
. 5' _
I A:».-..~5~.-er».-.-.5.-er.-. .J.-.-. .- - - - - - -

 

Last Week:

WSoc—defeats R-MW C, W Maryland
VB—defeats Roanoke, Catholic
WP—defeats Villanove, loses two
MSoc—defea’ts Emory&Henry, loses two

  3

PAGE 10

(J11: illing-tum ilﬂhi

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

This Week:

FB—Centre 09/25 .

WP~at California 09/25-26 V
MTen—Ro1ex Regional 09/25-26

Golf—W&L Fall Classic 09/25-26’

9
SEPTEMBER 24, 1993

bocci:  
Vcatchithe fever

 

—  ON Sroars
BY SARAH GILBERT

 

o Throughout the years,

’ Washington and Lee Uni-

V versity has seen some
ﬁerce battles in the arena

Nof sports. W&L was the
home of Cy Young, major
league pitcher who was so
great an award was named
after him. W&L has sent

numerous athletes to in-
tensely-fought games at

. the Regional and National
championshiplevel. Many .

" passionateandviciousath

‘letes have been proud to

. call themselves the Gener-

als of Washington and Lee.
' But I will predict that

A no battles will have been
fought so ﬁercely, no ath-
letes will have been so
lauded, no sport will-have I

- such a savage history as I
the Washington and Lee

~ ' Bocci BallToumament, to

. open its wild ’and..i1lustr.i‘~’ .
ous season today. A 5 V,  
At 5 pm; tonighgftwo V
of the keenest riyals’}.ot_t;
campus will kickoff .t, of
. tournamentwith anintense’
. and heroic match ‘onj._the’ ’
Lee-Jackson ﬁeld. Fourf ”

. courageous cha.l1engers *

. . from the.Ring-turu.Phiw_i1l

'_ facefour mad‘'defenders. ,
from the'Tridentjin¥what_ :
could be the most. notori~ ; I

 ous clash in the history of '

bW&L Bocci.‘ . _ . -:5

 And toanswer.theques-

1 tion of the week (yes, this
one’s for you, Stephen), q
bocci isyan ,Ita1ian‘iawn_l

. bowling. game;"'.Partici— 
pants attempt toroll‘ balls . '

gsirnilar to bowlingballs in

I ‘ an attemptto come near a '_ I

:3 wooden ball.‘ Trash talk-

ZV,_in'g is allowed. ,

Boccii Commissioner V
-. I)avi.dfHo'wiVson tested the ‘

1,: ftVe]ld»V.lastI ».weel; 13;; 1 Va; p;g_.~. _

', eason 2 withvsorne
2 g of .t1ife;Idorrn counselors; 2'
" ;'‘‘We: found the ﬁeldto

{be in .excellent shape.’ for v
' the ,first competition,”
’ .:Howison said. .“Infact, we

  

 narn’ed"a slight hillon the . .

,V field ‘Spencer Ridge’ fora ,
I notorious“ shot‘ ’Spen_c,er— ‘
Golladay made.” V o
..  JuniorBethProvanzana
explained the shot, in
which :G:olIaday’*s ball.

' stopped’ just. above‘
. Howison’s ball on the V
V, j. small rise; causing bothof
{is the balls to roll down the
, ridge.V..l.*~ '3  j .-

‘i~ff‘Icou1dn’.t,belieyehow .
ﬁercely A. competitive we
got,’.’.Prcvanzan_a said.

, Bocci is Vnot just"corn-

I petit‘ive,f_'it can get mean. »

'-Howison explained that .

heckling is a part of the
garnegj jg; , .. . V
I H “Bocci_.} requires great
courage)’; the commis-
sione.1i_said.V"fHeckling is V
encoura"ged.f’§  ii .5 
’ Heckling will be the
leastofour worries as we
facethc Tridcntfthis after- V
noon. If the reader has pe- -‘
rused the‘--lremjainder of
these hallowed pages (re;

willknow’one_ reasonwhy.
Other cvmatch-ups
planned, one every Friday,
includetheCollegeRepVub~
Iicans versus the College

, Democrats, Jubilee versus V
Southern Comfort, “all the ,
real rivalries on campus,” ‘

. said I-Iowison’. »V V

3 24-; TI1evW&LfBocci Ball 3

_ Toumamentwillbeplayed ‘

 ,in._traditional tournament

 format; winners will ad-
vance and, sometimeinthe
future, a champion will be

"crowned. .. ” I

1;.  “My dream isfor an
interesttodevelopon cam-

_ pus,and tohaveachampi-

; onship match where hun- .
dreds of people will come
out to watch, and a barbe-

. cue at my house,” said

.~Commissioner Howison.

 “I have ....¢:s in ans-” 

  "the"  
* 1* sonkicks off tonight at ﬁve.
.- {The Trident intends to

— “make -_full_use; of the un-
limited substitution rule.”

 Takingthefield forthePhi
will be, among others, your
trusty sports editor.

Expect greatness. I do.
And read about it in the
Phi-whetherornotwewin.

the‘EC budget story), he I‘

Hall of Fame game set

Generals closer to a ﬁrst victory.

On the defensive side of the ball, safety Marc
Newman turned in an outstanding performance in the
Emory and Henry game. If the defense does not spend
the game in its own end, the fans on Saturday can
expect a solid performance.

One of the key questions going in to the Centre
contest has to be W&L’s offensive line. The unit
allowed eight sacks last week and two blocked punts.
In order for the Generals to win, the line must provide
both adequate pass protection and run blocking.

The Generals must also avoid the turnovers that
plagued them against Emory and Henry. With fewer
turnovers, the defense plays fewer series with their
backs against the goal line. If the W&L team plays
with conﬁdence and precision, they have the talent to
put together a win on Saturday.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assitant Sports Editor

After the defeat at the hands of Emory and
Henry two weeks ago, Washington & Lee has
a chance to dent the win column against Centre
this weekend. Boasting a number of statistical
leaders in the conference (OK, so it’s only one
game, but still, what other good things can
come out of a 36-6 defeat?), the W&L squad
could make some noise in Saturday’s game.

Tom Mason needs to turn in a repeat perfor-
mance of two weeks ago (90 yards rushing) to
give some support for quarterbacks Brooks
Fischer and Matt Reedy. Also, consistent ef-
forts from Reedy and Fischer would push the

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Members of the Washington and Lee men’s soccer team avoid an Emory and Henry defender during the Gener-
als’ first win, Sept. 21 at Liberty Hall Fields.

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team re-
bounded this week after an 0-4
start, claiming a 10-1 thrashing
of Emory and Henry and a 4-0
defeat of Bridgewater.

On Tuesday, the first-year
Emory and Henry squad visited
W&L, giving the Generals a
chance to regroup and build some
confidence. Goal-scoring had
been a problem in the four losses
but the team charged out of this
slump, putting the ball in the back
of the net ten times. After senior
midﬁelder Matt Goodwin scored
early, the Generals were relent-
less. Sophomore attacker Bo
Manuel netted two goals while
John Robinson, Shag Drewry,
and ﬁve others contributed one
goal apiece. Freshman keeper
Matt Mazzarelli continues to im-
prove in the net, giving up just
one goal.

“Obviously, there wasn’t too
much pressure in the game so we
were able to work on a few things
we needed to do,” said Coach
Rolf Piranian.

AgainstBridgewateron Tues-
day, it was more of the same.
Seniorcaptain Alan Christensen,
freshman David Coming, and
Drewry all lit up the scoreboard
for the Generals. Freshman Bill
Gill added one more on a penalty
kick to claim the 4-0 victory.

After being outscored 16-4 in
their ﬁrst four games, Coach
Piranian retooled the defense. He

lrst Win for men’s soccer

had employed a zone during the
losses, and the break in the sched-
ule allowed him to make some
changes. .
“We didn’t change the whole
zone. We just made a little ad-
justment with the back four dc-
fenders. There will be some more
assignments given out as opposed
to just a strict zone,” said Piranian.

The adjustments were rﬂade

in part due to the team’s disap-
pointing showing in the ﬁrst—evcr
W&L Soccer Classic. In
Saturday’s opener, the Generals
managed to keep Frostburg State

scoreless until just before the ﬁrst

half ended. Down 1-0 at thObe-
ginning of the second half, the
team looked ﬂat. They allowed
two more goals to drop the con-
test, 3-0. ,

W&L looked better on Sun-
day against Juanita, maintaining
some control over the pace tfthe
game. Senior Tim McCarthy

scored in the ﬁrst half to keep the

game close. Despite a 21-10 shot
advantage, however, the Gener-
als couldn’t hold on, losing 3-1.

Besides the 0-4 start, the team

appears to be on a comelﬁck. ‘

They will need all they can us-
ter for this weekend as they face
ODAC-favorite Roanoke Col-
lege.
“Emory and Henry is no
Roanoke,” Piranian said, “but
we’re trying to work on some
things and get ourselves t<,the

level we should be playing at.” ~ I

The Generals are now 2-4*

overall and 2-0 in the confer-
ence.

On the run...

    

Photo by Bethany Smit , The Ring-tum Phi

Virginia Mllitary Institute cadets serve as a daily reminder for Washington and
Lee students that the Surgeon General recommends weekly exercise.

Plays of theweek:
the wild and the zany

 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

Football. While it is still
early in the season, football is
fast becoming the dominant
sport on television (at least on
every TV I’ve seen). To all
those who are already caught
up in the violent mayhem that
is American football-—Gct a
grip. The season is only three
gamesold and already the Cow-
boys have been written off for
dead and the Giants and Eagles
are Superbowl contenders.
Yes, there have been some great
games, but I prefer to take my
yearly dose of the sport in De-
cember and January, not Sep-
tember.

Despite the fact that the sea-
son remains in its inchoate
stages, some controversy has
already arisen. In a recent
Redskins—Cardinals game,
Phoenix safety Chuck Cecil de-
livered two crushing hits on
Redskins receivers. One hit,
on Ron Middleton, jarred loose
Middleton’s helmet. After re-
ceiving accolades from an-
nouncers, coaches, and fans
(both hits came in crucial situ-
ations in the Phoenix win),
Cecil was informed of the
$30,000 fine resulting fromthe
two hits.

In the incident, the league
(citing spearing, or hittingwith
the crown of the helmet) ﬁned
a player for playing good, hard
football. There were no penal-
ties on either play. In fact one
of the announcers calling the
game described the hits as_Pro-
Bowl caliber. Maybe the NFL
should entertain the novel idea

 

of letting the players play foot-

ball.

The other major story of the
week comes from the baseball
arena. Bottom of the ninth—

Red Sox ahead 3-] with Yan-
kee catcher Mike Stanley at
the plate and two out. Stanley
ﬂies out to end the game...Or
does he? At the last possible
moment, the home plate um-
pire calls time and the play
doesn’tcount. The reason? A
15 year—old fan is running down
the third base line. The play
eventually cost the Red Sox
the game after the Yankees ral-
lied to win 4-3. This is the
second time that a fan has
played an instrumental role in
a Yankee victory. In August, a
fan reached out and presented
Don Mattingly with a home
run at the expense of Oriole
outﬁelder Mark Maclemore. A
fan catchinga ball is one thing,
but Stadium security should
never have allowed the Boston

incident to take place.

Yankee Stadium, while one
of the most famous venues in
baseball displays woefully lax
security. Fights,physical abuse
of opposing fans, and disturb
ing incidents such as the one
described have become all too
common. Maybe it’s all a plot
to get the team moved across
the river to New Jersey.

Parting Shots———

Hats off to Randau
Cunningham after leading the
most impressive comeback of
the season against the Wash-
ington Redskins on Sunday.
Randall scrambled his way to
an impressive down the ﬁeld
march with under 2:00 to play

To the staffs of the Phi and
the Trident... What the hell is
Bocci?!?!

W&L Team Records

Women’s Soccer
Volleyball

Men’s Cross Country
Women’s Cross Country

Water Polo
Men’s Soccer
Football

Wins—Losses
4-1

Percentage
.800 "
.625
.500
.500
.429 0
.200
.000

 

