 

3a.w«?‘.'°‘l

 

‘K-1 “ I" 

' at
M ’ I‘ «"5  
 A T‘: 1‘ 

  

them: AR: No
nonm AMOLUPES

Gho

sts of ATS2 brothers aunt
train, hijack it to Sweet Briar

  

   
 

he ’4L’ting—t1Im Iﬂhi

VGLUME 93, NO. 666

 

FILLMORE AND NIXON UNIVERSITY

 

By SLIM FAST
' Phi Dietician

 
  
 

Warwick,

  

_ ‘ rﬂiracle diet, you’re wrong.

  
  
  
 
   

tghed over 250 pounds.

 
 
  
 
 

‘lk of.

 
     
    
 
 

t it works.”

 
  
 

If you think there is no such thing as the

Witness the amazing transforma-
n in Dean of Students David
-xwison. A short two years ago,
>wison was 10 pants sizes larger and

Now, he is the skinniest man we can

"lt‘s truly amazing,” Howison said.
went on a simple diet of mashed
:k bill, turnips and Spos’ back hair,
:1 I lost weight in dozens of pounds
I; r week. I don’t know how it works,

diowison discovered the weight loss

program while watching the Psychic
Channel on late night TV. Dionne

state, and she said ‘David Howison,
call in now!’ It was a religious experi-

cable
network’s
promoter,
personally
i n v i t e d
Howison to
try the diet
plan.

“ I t ’ s
amazing but
that Dionne

N» .

 

»%--.<...

is really a
psychic,”
Howison

said. “She sensed me watching the TV
in my miserable, slothful, 250 pound

Before

now she’s skinny too!”

Dr. Jane Horton, university physi-

ence. It said. “I like toadda little

turns out styling gel to the mix. It
D i o n n e makes the hair stick bet-
used to ter. It smells a little bet-
weigh over ter that way, too.”

5 0 0 The program works
p 0 u n d s , in three simple steps.
but thanks First, you send all your
to the Psy- money to the Psychic
c h i c Friends Network. See-
F r i e n d s ond, you collect some
and this mashed duck bill, some
a m a z i n g turnips, andagood-sized
weightloss handful of Spos’ back
program, hair. Third, you mix it

up and eat it.
“That’s what I love

cian, said the program really works
“Everyone should try it," Horton

best about this whole program,”
Howison said. “I can prepare every-

LEX VEGAS, VIRGINNY

thing right here in my

office.”

Even those with-
out drastic weight
problems like
Howison’s can ben-
efit from the diet.

Dean of Students
for Greek Affairs
Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins lost 20 pounds
in less than a day on
the miracle diet.

“I felt so good

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
  

 

 

Does anybody really look at the photo credits? Professor Smith?

Nhere’s reverse on this damn thing?

  

  
 
  
 
  

. Thomas A. “Baner” Bane, longtime veteran of the Washington and Lee Security force, in what could possibly be the biggest
bonehead maneuver of the year, backs into the Liberty Hall ruins and knocks down a good portion of the historical land-
mark. “My foot slipped off the clutch when I was dreaming of Nancy Pav1ovic’s sexy fingernails,” commented W&L’s favor-
ite security guard. And this guy complains because no one will let him have a 

about myself, I let all
the fraternities have
keg parties on

APRIL 1, 1994

Howison diet shrinks Waistlines

Wilson’s front lawn,” said Atkins.
“They messed up Howison’s bocci
field. That made me happy.”

Secretary to the Dean of Freshmen
Bonnie Walker lost 15 pounds in 15
minutes on the diet.

“Buddy and I even went to the.fra-
ternity party on Wilson’s front lawn,”
Walker said. “We each drank enough
to get huge beer guts and we LOST
weight! This is truly an amazing diet.
Excuse me.”

If you are interested in joining the
group of fortunate people who have '
discovered the program, just watch the '
Psychic Network late at night, prefer-
ably with a big bowl of “Cheetos.”

“They know who you are anyway,” ~
said Howison. 5

EC blows

gobs of $
on forks

By AMOS HASHBEY PIERCE III
Phi Future Congressman

 

By EM T. VEE
Phi Assistant Beekeeper

   

  

keeping pace with its new
popular game show, Channel 2 is
. adding another type of program-
ming appealing to students to-‘
day.

Music Videos will begin to
= sh w on Channel 2 tonight at

5:- p.m. "

Love Connection frontperson
. and producer Chris Albert will
- have his name all over this project
as well. .

“I’m very excited about this
wonderful project, it is so excit-
ing to produce all those great
groups, especially those fun
Southern Drunks,” said Albert.

Seven groups are kicking off
the first set of music videos with
eight great songs. W&L favor-
ites The Dave Matthew Marks
Ba9.d, lost & found in the super-
market, Big Hairy Possums;
Kappa Sigma favorite Too Much
of the Bandit Sole; and W&L

A

 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
   
 
 

   
  

  
 

singing groups Southern Drunks,
Cherries JubiLee, and General
Admission to Those Who Didn’t
Get into the Other Two Groups
will be performing one song each,
except Bandit Sole, who will per-
form two songs for the camera.

The Dave Matthew Marks
Band will be performing “Satel-
lite”, a song about a young girl
who wants a satellite of her very
own to see all the cable channels
available in Orlando, Florida.

“It’s really our favorite song
to play, although we don’t find it
as inspirational as most of our
completely brain—dead fans,” said
Marks about his song.

The Possums have found new
success lately, and are making it
much the way lost & found in the
supermarket did in 1991. They
have chosen to cover a song by
Divinyls, “I touch myself (when
I think of you).”

“It’s not one of our usual
songs, but we all like doing it,”
said lead Possum Trevor Norris.

W&L gets music station

Guitarist Joe Austin con-
curred.

“We do touch ourselves, not
usually while we’re performing,
but sometimes during practice.”

Too Much of the Bandit Sole,
a Kappa Sig regular, is doing two
in a row, beginning with their
original woeful, bluesy lament
“Why can’t we make it big?” this
is followed by another minute-
and-a-half song by the band,

. ‘‘We’ll play for fifty bucks,”

which really sounds like a cry for
help from a desperate prostitute.

Lost & found in the super-
market will go on the air with
their party favorite “Brickhouse”
by the Commodores.

“We like the song okay and
people scream for it every time
we play at W&L, so we thought
we’d do our fans and Kimberly
Peterson a favor and have it on
the t.v. all the time.” guitarist
Dave Klabo, ’89, said.

The three W&L a capella
groups round out the program

‘member Robert Eison said.

with some a capella music. South-
ern Drunks starts it off with the
Bee Gee’s hit song “More than a
Woman.”

“Everyone’s getting into the
70s nostalgia and we thought we
would, too,” Southern Drunk

Jesse Taylor, Southern Drunk
and song arranger, commented,
“It’s a good song for me to do
because sometimes I feel like
more than a woman.”

Cherries JubiLee will be de-
parting from their usual playlist
as well with an a capella version
of AC/DC’s “You shook me all
night long.” “lt’s a song most of
us like, maybe better than most-
of our other stuff,” said Jennifer
Ray of Cherries JubiLee.

General Admission for Those
Who Didn’t Get into the Other
Two Groups will begin their
video with a short rendition of
“Stairway to Heaven,” followed

bSee MTV, page 2

Fancy Dress has been can-
celled for next year.

The Executive Committee
Monday voted in favor of a plan
that would cut the Fancy Dress
budget and use 85 percent of the
money to buy plastic forks.

“If we used 85 percent of the
FD budget, we could buy enough
plastic forks to fill the Dining
Hall to a depth of nine feet,” said
EC Vice President Jimmy Kull.

EC Representatives Carol
Pierce and Alison Lewis asked
what the plastic forks could be
used for and were ignored by the
rest of the committee, but they
voted in favor of the plan any-
way.

EC Representative Alex Cross
whined that plastic fork tines
could poke his little eyes out and
voted in favor of plastic spoons.

Law School Representatives
Kevin Webb, James Rambeau

and Keith Benedictsaid they were '

concerned that the plastic forks
would not be made available to
law students. EC Grand Poobah
Robert “Studhorse” Tompkins
assured them that EC Pledge
Marcus Rayner would post signs
on the law school campus in-
forming law students about the
forks.

EC Secretary Ashby Hack-
ney was not present for the meet-
ing, but was spotted down the
block at Sweet Things eating
“Pop Rocks.”

EC Representative David
“Lumpy” Stewart drew little in-
terlocking circles on his copy of
the minutes and hummed the

Really Wacky Publicity Photo

theme from “Dragnet.”

Tompkins said the remaining 

15 percent, of the FD budget
would be used to buy concrete
lawn chickens for campus build-
ings and to purchase velvet Elvis
tapestries for every member of
the student body.

_ “Speaking for the entirety of
the student body, we were unsat-
isﬁed with the way the Fancy
Dress committee spent their
money this year,” said Tompkins.
“This is an appropriate method
of punishment.”

Michael Hewlett, Nicholas
Waddy, Niall MacKenzie, Nova
Clark, Ted Elliott, Ccttie Miles
and Professor of Journalism Brian
E. Richardson all immediately
wrote letters to TheRing-tum Phi
in protest.

After the meeting, the Publi-
cations Board announced it
would fund its own ball next year
with the $85,000 in advertising
revenue collected by Phi Busi-
ness Manager Kevin “G-Money”
Roddey over the past year.

The new ball, to be named
“The First Annual Hootenanny
Jamboree,” will have a redneck
theme, with bales of hay, a real
John Deere Tractor and a shrine
built in honor of Leigh Allen.

Students will have the oppor-
tunity to purchase memorabilia
from the event: commemorative
pouches of Red Man, jars of
moonshine and engraved silver
tire irons.

“I think it’s a wonderful thing
that Kevin was able to make so
much money for the school this
year,” said University President
John D.’ Wilson. “Now fetch me
some bourbon, Hespos.”

At Left: After
completing his
professional tour
with the Allman
Brothers last year,
Professor of
Journalism Brian
Richardson joined
up with the Jack-
son 5. Richardson
said this tour will
expand his musi-
cal horizons.
“Motown is my
new passion,” he
said. “They'll even;
let me wear my
studly brown
leather jacket that
everyone likes so
much.”

«y/2

 

 

PAGE ln(e) + 365°

 

The World, except
for Page Page,
Lesotho and parts
of New Zealand

Kerrigan guilty (guilty I say)

New evidence reveals that it was Nancy Kerrigan, and not
Tonya Harding, who arranged the attack on Kerrigan last January.
Authorities hauled a sobbing Kerrigan to jail Tuesday after learn-
ing that she and Harding’s ex-husband Jeff Gillooly (say it again...
Gilooly—Better than “Buttafuoco,” huh?) had conspired to get
Harding kicked off the U.S. Figure Skating team and thrown in jail.
Kerrigan, who has been carrying on an illicit affair with Gillooly,
said she was “sick of sharing the limelight with Tonya, and did not
want to risk my chances at the gold.” Although she lost the gold
medal anyway, Kerrigan has been enjoying the beneﬁts of playing
America’s injured sweetheart by signing lucrative deals with
Revlon, Campbell’s Soup, and Nike. Harding has been released
from her sentence of 300 hours of community service for impeding
the investigation into the affair. What does she plan to do with all
this time on her hands? “I’m going to Disneyland,” the vindicated
skater told reporters.

Penis-slicer strikes again

Lorena Bobbitt has suffered a mental relapse. Just weeks after
her release from a state mental institution, Mrs. Bobbitt (called
“The Emasculator” by her cell—mates) is being hospitalized again
after severing husband John Bobbitt’s penis a second time. Au-
thorities apprehended her after she attempted to sell the organ to a
pawn broker. “I guess I let her go too soon,” said the judge who
ordered her release. “She just wasn’t ready to face the real world.
All those men with penises out there were just too much temptation
for her.” John Bobbitt could not be reached for comment. Bobbitt
regained 75 percent use of his organ after he lost it the first time.
Doctors are operating to reattach his penis, but are not hopeful.
“We were lucky to save it the first time. After a trauma like that,
it was amazing he could use it at all. This time, he may be out of
luck.”

Rrrrrummmmmble!!!

The big one finally hit. Early Monday morning, California was
struck by an earthquake that registered 15.8 on the Richter scale.
After four minutes of being shaken by the most violent quake to
ever rock the earth, the Golden State fell off the left coast into the
Pacific Ocean. The accompanying roar was drowned out by the
deafening cheers of Califomia’s neighbors, who began a round-
the-clock celebration after the ocean swallowed the state.

Those durned hillbillies...

MTV announced it will _change its format from rock music
videos to country music. Replacing the popular “Week in Rock”
will be “Line Dancing with Dedra.” The game show “Lip Service”
will be replaced with “Name that No-Talent Blow-Dried Pretty
Boy Country Singer.” The change in format comes as a result of
financial losses the station has suffered from for the past year.
“Country music is the wave of the future,” said an MTV spokes-
person. “Rock just doesn’t have the same following.”

Smoke ’em if ya got ’em

Congress passed a law this week legalizing marijuana. Wash-
ington will see several changes due to this new legislation. Smok-
ing lounges in the Capital building will be equipped with bongs as
well as ash—trays. President Clinton announced that the Rose
Garden at the White House will be transformed into a marijuana
field that will supply Congress, White House aides, and any
foreign diplomats that may be visiting.

Nothing new here

A bunch of Shiite Muslims blew something up with a car bomb.

Help needed desperately

Hey, you! Yeah, you. I have been imprisoned by the staff of T he
Ring—tum Phi. They’ve been forcing me to write these inane
“Beyond the Blue Ridge” things for about four months now. I’M
GOING NUTS!!! Get me out of here! !! Do you have any idea how
painful it is to type “Gi1loo1y” 400 times? No, I don’t think so.
Hurry! Rescue me! Be careful, though. Kefalas has a 12-gauge.

Blatant sensationalism

A polar bear was infected by the AIDS virus when he hit a
disgruntled postal worker in Waco, Texas who was involved in the
Whitewater affair. Surprisingly, we only wrote a 4—line news brief
about the whole thing.

Notice to little kids in all areas
of the United States of’America

There is no Santa Claus. The Easter Bunny is a fake as well. So
is the Tooth Fairy. We’re sorry, but it’s our duty as journalists to
expose the truth,because lies are harmful, although sometimes
morally obligatory. We know because Professor Hodges told us so
in ethics class.

Over Yonder is compiled by My Delta Queen

By NESTLE OUIK
Phi tradition specialist

Plans for the Sorority Renaissance
renovation of Lee Chapel have received
the approval of the Board of Trustees,
and construction will begin within the
next month.

Construction will continue over the
summer, and the chapel should be fully
converted for use by next September
for a school-opening bash sponsored
by the Pan Hellenic Council. The cost
isjust under $500,000 with some labor
to be provided by the sororities them-
selves.

“Our first project is moving all the
Lee memorabilia out ofthe basement,”
said Captain Robert Peniston, Director
of Lee Chapel.

“We’ll store it in President Wilson’s
garage until the new Lee Chapel space
is ready.” _

Under a plan developed by Dean of
Students David Howison, several of
the loft suites in Gaines Hall will be
converted for the current uses of Lee
Chapel, and the recumbent statue of
Robert E. Lee will move there as well.
Howison added, though, that perma-
nent Lee Chapel housing is still a pos-
sibility for the future.

The four sororities will share the
chapel and maintain it through help
from their house corporations. The
basement will have an individual room
for each sorority, cooking facilities,
several guest suites, and a Pan Hellenic
Lounge forpromotingunity among the
sororities.

The main chapel will be used for
chapter meetings in its current state,
but transportable benches and a roll out
ﬂoor covering will let it be easily trans-
fonned into a party room, with floor.
drains and washable paint for the walls
among the additions.

The diamond window panes will be
replaced with shatter-proof glass, and
each sorority has one window for
stained glass. In addition, each sorority

The Rin -tum Phi E
Lee spins in chapel tomb

oo un withaside ordero Chinese ve etables A rill 1994

  

 

Photo by Nikon Nikon, The Ring-[um P/ii

Robert E. Lee’s recumbent statue begins to rotate near the Confederate ﬂags that sur-

round his tomb. Sororities re-decorating the Chapel took little notice.

may hang its flag.

“We had some trouble getting the
prime window,” said Chi Omega Presi-
dent Stacey Colfrey. “But we traded
our flag slot with Theta, so I think
we’ve worked everything out.”

The organ will be removed to put in
a bar, and additional light and sound
equipment will be able to accommo-
date bands for sorority functions. With
the closing of the Boiler Room, many
see the Chapel as a good replacement.

Other additions include bathrooms
near the front door, additional sound-
proofing , and aluminum can collec-
tion facilities for recycling.

After initial debate regarding the
color scheme of the main room, the
sororities chose to keep the traditional

decor.

“It seemed fairest to everyone if we
left the room neutral,” said Pi Beta Phi
Vice President of Atmosphere. “All
the different colors really clashed.”

The Jefferson florist-is currently .
reviewing its suppliers of pansies and
Carnations, while W&L Dining_Ser-
vices is meeting with each sorority to
discuss catering luncheons, banquets.
and chapter functions.

The trustees’ nearly unanimous ap-
proval at the recent meeting reflects
their interest in Greek options for
women at W&L.

As the only dissenter was carried
out of the room in a fit of anger, one
trustee commented, “I think he’ll grow
to like the idea once he gets used to it.

b .

We’re all behind this plan l()0 per-
cent."

According to Director’ of Public
Relations Brian Shaw, support has been
strong for the plan after relatively little
initial resistance. G

President Wilson admitted that
while a Renaissance of Lee Chapel was
not among his initial ideas in his plans
for admitting women to W&L or for
Fraternity Renaissance, he does like
the natural progression the two have
taken. to

“I love the idea, frankly," said Wil—,
son. “It seems the most natural course
to take, and isjust  likely a better use 3
of the space."

  

  
  
  
   
  

“K

  
  

 

   

. ._.;., 

anything there, anyway?

1 Kegs in

By BUD -DRAFT
Phi Lush

Gaines Hall will soon be the social
hot spot.

Washington and Lee administration

has decided to encourage kegs parties
in Gaines to make it more of a party
place.

“We’re going to but kegs for stu-
dents’ tuition money,” said University
President John D. Wilson.

_ Any parents worried that the money
they are shelling out is going to alcohol
should rest assured.

“Alcohol is good for you,” said
University Physician David Copeland.
“it can even improve academic perfor-
mance!”

These findings started Dean of

Freshmen and Residence Life Dennis »

Manning‘s Kegs in Gaines Project
(KIGP).

There are four divisions of hte
project:

1. Academic Division (Keg’s for
A’s): Rooms in Gaines will be set aside
for alcohol and academics. Included
will be the Screwdrivers and Sociol-
ogy Room. Kegs for Calculus Suite,
and the Absolut Accounting Area.

2. Social Division: Basically, stu-
dents can come to Gaines every night
to party. No road cheese admitted.

3. Practical Knowledge Division:
This division of KIGP will teach stu-

Journalism Department rockers John Jennings
for their first world tour. The profs have decide
midlife crises: to tour in a rock ’n’. roll band. Unfo
country. However, the group has pro
colleagues because of a conﬂict withi

Crazed fans mobbed the quartet at their recent tour-

:a

Smokin’. in that little boy’s room on the

, Ronald McDonald, Hampden Smith, and Robert DeMaria prepar
d to take a year-long sabbatical to pursue the dream of their

rtlmately, MTV won’t carry their videos because they’ve gone
ved to be a big hit in Japan. Professor Brian Richardson couldn’t join his
n the Jackson family during the 5 reunion tour.
opening performance in the Pavilion. But who can hear

Gaines!

dents how to best consume their alco-
hol and garner a higher tolerance level.
Classes include Shots for Students 201
(prerequisite: Studies in throwing Up
101) taught by Manning; Beer Games
161 taught by Wilson; and Funneling
for Fun 322, taught by W&L Director
of Security Mike Young. These classes
satidfy W&L’s general drinking edu-
cation requirements;

4. Hooking Up Division: enough
said.

The administration will be launch-
ing a huge public relations project to
get students more interested in KIGP.

Some KIGP merchandise that will
be sold soon:

1. Eau de Puke ($101.99). Sold at
Fine» Stores That Specialize In This
Type» of Stuff.

2. Gaines Shot Glasses ($178.89)

3. H ow to Improve Your GRE scores
by Drinking More. ($99).

Some students involved in the orga-
nizing of KIGP were worried that the
prices of the products were too high.

“W&Lstudents have lots of money.
Let’s drain them of all they’re worth,”
said Wilson.

Students interested in being in the
KIGP Student Commitee should pick
up applications in the University Cen-
ter. Requirements include a love of
alcohol and a high tolerance level.

“We are truly excited about this,”
said Manning.

  

fol”

 

CLARK

FOR WROIIGLY
ACCUSIIIG DOGS
OF BAD
BEHAVIOR.
CHASING MAIL
TRUCKS AND
JUST PLAIN
PUBLIC ANNOY-
ANCE

REWARD

LS5 DEAD

'2..$1O ALIVE

3.$l5' ALIVE
WITH YELLOW
CHALK III HAND

second ﬂoor of Reid I

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
 
 
  
 
  
     

   
  
    
  
  
  
 
  

W&LtvT
debuts 1
today.

from MTV, page 1

 
 

  

  

by a skit on the revisions the Wh
Book Review Committee should ma‘
to the White Book. '

“Stairway’s such a great song, Ijl
wishes I could sing it all the time.”s '
soloist S. R. Evans. “The skit’s,
makin’ the students who’re watch
the t.v. think about the Honor Syst
s’more.” 3

“Everyone here at Channel 2 is v q
excited about this wonderful ﬁoje
we can’t wait to see everyone’-s re ‘
tion,” said Albert.

Some upcoming acts for fut
shows include songs by administrat
and faculty and even some stude
They include: President Wilson w
"Take This Job and Shove It" bgDa
Allen Coe; Dean Atkins with a siirpr
Lemonheads song, “My Drug Budd
Dean Howison with Warren Zevo
“Excitable Boyg" Dr. James Worth Sir
ing "Feelings;“ Bob Tompkins w
Cream hit “Politician;” and some me
bers of Beta Theta Pi fraternity sing
Bob Dylan‘s "Subterranean Homes
Blues."

  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
  
   
   

   
    
 
   

  
  
  
   
  

     

  
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
    
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
    
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
    
  
    

By BAKED FINN
“I didn't inhale”

The old South has ﬁnally won Lenfest, and
he Stars and Bars will fly proudly across the
tagﬁ
The Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts
ill proudly host the student-produced Gone
. ith the Breeze, starring Helen O’Necker as
carlett and Hohn Mikado as Rhett Butler.

The production features a full scale repre-
entation of the Tara bathroom, in which Scarlett
poﬁedly performs most of her soliloquies.

The director, Professor Hake Holden Seller,
aid although the cast and crew have never fully
n through the script, they expect the perfor-
ance to last no more than 10 hours.

“You could watch North and South, or you
ould come watch Lenfest burn to the ground in
eewment of the Atlanta project,” Seller said.

e play is expected to draw a large crowd.
“We’ve designed contemporary costumes
And sets to make it look like the South never lost
5 e war,” said co-costume designer Pat Roberts
f Frederick’s of Hollywood.

Roberts’ partner in costume design is Boy
. eor e, of Victoria’s Secret Boutique in
’oa ke. George said (s)he designed the cos-
umes for Scarlett while Roberts focused more
n Rhett’s apparel.

“I ’m not specialized in creating men’swear,”
xeorge said.

Set designer Bob Villa picked up on the
ontemporary theme and designed Tara as a
ubdﬁision of the Woods Creek Apartments.
‘resident John Wilson said he was pleased with
illa’s work.

“We’re going to ask him to submit a bid for
t e building of the new science center,” Wilson
aid. “If it turns out as well as that set, we’ll
inally be able to attract all of those real pre-

ed Qtudents.”

Villa said his crew had some difficulties in
eveloping the set.

“We couldn’t get the stucco to stick to the
hain-link, and the potted palm trees got stuck
-- the stage-left door,” Villa said.

The lighting for the production is expected
beiather traditional.

“We’ll be using candles and oil lamps in
ost of the first acts, though we might finally
e able to track the leads with a maglite,” said
‘ghting director Tommy Edisun. I.M. Bryte,
ssistant director, said he hoped he would get to
.old the maglite.

Owecker said she is excited to have such an
portant part in the play. '

“I’ve always wanted to play a prima donna,”
* c said. “Now that I ’ve got my chance. I ’m not
, re what I want to do with it.”

O’Necker said she studied for the role by
atching old movies about the South. She said
atcing the Kappas was particularly helpful
1 establishing a character type for Scarlett.

Mikado, as Rhett Butler, will have a small

Breeze fres

role in the revised performance.

“Frankly, my dear, I don’t give a banana,”
he said. Mikado said he was honored to have
been chosen to work with O’Necker and Pro-
fessor Huntley’s dog, Ollie. Ollie, who has
more speakingiparts than Mikado, plays Ralph,
barnyard dog and Atlatmrnongrsl-.. . _ .

Seller has never directed aW& , ‘pro_ducti'on_,
before. He said hefelt preparedfor‘ this under- ‘
taking though. ' _

“I’m very familiar with the culture of the
South,” he said. “You may not know this, but
I’m the one who set up the lynching scene
in Sommersby.”

Above and above right: Some of the costumes designed by Frederick’s A
of Hollywood designer Pat Roberts. These costumes will be

Worn by the minor actresses in the play.

Seller said he hoped the play would bring to

a head many of the geographical tensions in the

student body.

sublimated.

  
  
   
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
   
   
    
  
    
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
   

Q By L. I. Veisoo Ol
Phi Cool Person Who Should Write For Us More

Lexington must have some sort of charm because it’s
‘out to become the home of yet another feature ﬁlm.

This movie, under the direction of ex - MASH star Alan
da, will be entitled Bubba Get Your Gun: The Musical.
ris ' based on the best-selling novel by John Grisham
Theyudge and Jury.” Unbelievably enough, the viewing
blic will be able to see yet another untimely beating of the
v aker Oats spokesman Wilford Brimley.

The town of Lexington is very happy to see this movie
me to its door not only because of the fame it brings, but
cause approximately 100 VMI cadets will be employed.
. ouﬁtwo days ago most of the cast began arriving in town.
fortunately, the first day of rehearsal was not without its
are of problems. The lead actor, while attempting a
ouette, sprained his ankle and was rushed to Stonewall

kson Hospital. The university was also shocked to hear
a t while he was trying to catch his balance he tore several

the relic ﬂags hanging in Lee Chapel. The problems
nti, ed that day. One of the supporting actresses, upon
ing one of the VMI cadet’s haircuts, fell madly in love
th him. She then threatened to run away with him unless
e was given her own room in Graham Lees that she could
are with her new miltary love.

. Because of the unsual mixture of the military and the

  
 

   

 

 

bove: One of the dance instructors explains the arm movements to an extra before
the ﬁlming of a scene in Bubba Get Your Gun: The Musical, directed by Alan Alda.

ight: Extras mill around after reciving guns from the head prop person. They later
acted in the scene where Washington Hall is stormed and looted.

   
   

Publicity Photo

song and dance genres, rehearsals have been extensive.
Dirk Snyder, who plays Lonnie in the movie, said, “The
toughest part of the rehearsals is learning how to shoot my
gun and dance at the same time. They tell me that later on
we might have to sing too. That stinks.” Thankfully
enough, morale is much better for the other players in the
movie. Hella Brass, who plays Pat, talks about the town. “I
like to spend time here in Lexington. It’s so nice. My
favorite place to hang out is Sharks. The people there
are great!”

The plot of the movie will make the viewer laugh and cry
and even say, “This is the best movie I’ve seen since The
Karate Kid 2. The tough but sensitive soldier Lonnie falls
in love with Pat, a six foot tall, two-hundred pound ofﬁcer’s
wife. Needless to say, their love is forbidden until they
destroy the dangerous posse of fired faculty members from
a local community college. In the meantime, Pat and
Lonnie’s antics keep the crowd rolling in laughter and
wanting more. V

The cast and crew will be in town for about a month.
During this time they will be asking the students of VMI and
W&L not to mind the dancing men in camouﬂage and to
bear with some of the inconveniences. On March 30, lunch
will not be served in Evan’s Dining Hall because ascene will
be ﬁlmed there. This is a crucial scene in the movie where
Lonnie and Pat come together to finally confront the evil
posse. Not only is there food involved, but...well, maybe
you should just see the movie.

  

“We’re going to prove once and for all that
it’s easier to get into a bar without a fake I.D. in
Atlanta than in New York,” he said. “We’re
also going to raise the level of consciousness,
aboutthe-dangers of»long',,c_arpe,t_ed stairways."-
' Seller said he ‘though the true meaning be-
hind the original Gone with the Wind had been

“People think it’s supposed to be some kind
of a statement about gender relationships,” he
said. “Well, I would tell them that if that’s all

I i E PAGE um, uh, oh well. It’s not important

1‘ Lenfest Sig

y

Publicity Phoms and St. Elmo ’s Fire.

Breeze Saga: Rhett.

role of Rhett, however.

“I don’t want to be type—cast into that kind of
a role. I think I’d like to play Scarlett this time,”

Mikado said.

the pitfalls of type-casting.

good Rhett,” O’Necker said.

Gone With the Breeze will be performed
Sunday in Lenfest. Tickets are available from
the Box Office from the Dining Services, and
can be purchased with University Cards.

he singing troops descend oBi g movie filming

 

Above and top right: some of the

costumes for Rhett Butler.
they get out of it, they should go and see Dean
Schroer—Lamont. Everything, and I do mean
everything, in this play has meaning. Certainly,
for this performance we’ve changed the tradi-
tional love triangle so that we could have Nancy
Parakeet play Ashley, and we’ve located Tara
in Houston. There’s no reason to think that this
is any less a statement about the American

Conﬂict than Predator was about Vietnam."
The performance will be one of a series of
Lenfest exposes on the flammability of south-
em homes. Other performances in the series
include Backdraft, Carrie, Towering Inferno,

Next month, the Lenfest Foundation tropes
to host their own sequel to the Gone with the

Mikado said he would not audition for the

O’Neckersaid she agreed with Mikado about

‘‘I’m still going to try out for Scarletfs part
though, because I don’ think I’d make a‘ very ‘

 

9

    
 

blicity Photos

A This is one of Scarett’s costumes
designed by Boy George.

.;:n..»»_

Pulicrty Photo

In The Columns on March 21, 1944, Washington and
Lee University held a drink-off to raise money for the
war effort this past weekend. As students had previously
demonstrated no interest in planting a victory garden or
purchasing bonds, the students came up with this plan,
along with the faculty and administration to help con«
tribute to our boys oversees. The rules for the contest
stated that you must have raised at least fifteen dollars in
pledges to be eligible for the 20 keg fund raising drive.
The sophomore class recorded the greatest amount of
pledges, with over $400 raised. The senior class, sight-
ing cirrhosis of the liver as the reason, came in last, with
a mere $45. At the end of the day, all'20 kegs were
finished, as was the student body, and over $1000 was
raised for the war effort. President Roosevelt called in
his personal thanks and support later in the week.

The Ring-tum Phi, on March 22, 1969, reported a
protest to the rampant sexism faced by males on the
W&L campus by girls from the various road schools, the
campus men rallied and burned their jock straps in
protest. Though the fumes produced by the inferno
killed a migrating flock of geese, the general tone of the
rally was positive. “We merely want the girls to know
how we feel about the cheap way in which we are treated.
Men have feelings, too. We are not just sex objects,”
stated an unidentified junior. When asked to comment,
representatives from Sweet Briar, Randolph-Macon,
Hollins, and Mary Baldwin had a common response.
“They ask for it. When our girls come up for the
gatherings on weekends, they are met by scantilly clad
lushes. What are they supposed to do? Deny their
progesterone.” The rally was attended by over'4()0 men,
ranging in cup sizes from small to medium-large.

For the W&L Record

‘into the Sigma Nu yard. Two Phi Delt sophomores

Compiled by RAY BLACK of the Phi Staff

In the Phi on March 22, 1984, it was reported that the
members of the Sigma Nu fraternity had decided not to
take any further action through the, University against
the Phi Delta Theta fraternity for a recent incident.

On March 3rd, an artillery round simulator was
thrown from the Phi Delt house, across Henry Street, and

admitted to being responsible for the act. Sigma Nu
decided to seek retribution. They made a road trip to a
Texas gun show, purchased large amounts ammo and
numerous ﬁrearms before returning to Lexington. From
a position on the Sigma Nu roof, they laid down an
impressive barrage, pinning several Phi Delts in the
house. A special team of Sigma Nu commandos, lead by
“Stormin' Norman” Wolff, was able to penetrate the Phi
Delt house and capture the Santa Ciaus displayed by the
Phi Delts every year.

On March 22, 1990, the Phi covered W&L’s 200th
annual Gay Rights March. It took place this past Satur-
day and began at. the Lenfest Center ending some 10
miles away in Buena Vista. Supporters who marched
donned a simply stunning array of the latest fashions.
You could havejust died. The leaders of the march, all
wearing the latest from J. Crew and Liz Claiborne
pranced to the music of show tunes as they proceeded
down Nelson Street. At the finish line in Buena Vista,
the marchers were met by hundreds of adoring support-
ers. Peanutbutter and M&M sandwiches and spring
water (withjust a hint oflime) were offered to those who
were a bit hungry. The effort inspired national attention
when Radio Commentator Howard Stern called the
W&L campus, “The damndest.bunch of liberals I’ve
ever seen.”

  

 
 

  

PAGE 4 of 10

Ring

By AMY FISHER
Phi Psyeo Slut

  

3|-lpﬂllil

Financial problems plague you this week. First you will
accidentally put your meal card in the Crestar machine.
When you reach for the cash, you will find only Letitia Pate
Evans.Dining Hall Taco Bar rejects in the slot. Later, you
will put your bank card in a Pepsi machine. It will automati-
cally withdraw $73.42 for your can of Dr. Pepper. The soda
will be ﬂat. Aries, you never learn. Further problems ensue
when your parents ﬁgure out that those impressive book-
store bills were not for a graphic design program, but rather
for your own copy of The Beavis and Butthead Experience.
To put it bluntly, it sucks to be you. Maybe next week you
can get a job selling chili dogs at Stop-In. Lucky color:
Burnt sienna.

 

You will be awakened Friday at 4:20 a.m. by a spasm in
your left foot. You will go back to sleep, then wake up when
your alarm goes off at 9:00. The radio will be playing Tevin
Campbell. The hot water in the shower will run out just as
you are about to turn it off. You will swear and stub your big
toe on your left foot (Do you sense a left foot theme,
Taurus?) You will dress in khaki pants and a blue button
down shirt. Professor Hughes will return your politics test.
Surprise, surprise; you got a D. At lunch you will put too
much dressing on your salad, but you will sit next to the
person you wish you had gone to FD with. He or she seems
to be interested, so you will make plans to hook up —— I mean,
meet at a party later. Your afternoon will be eventful by
Lexington standards. In other words, you will get mail other
than the weekly hello note from Colombia House. The
selection of the month will not be worth ordering, but you
will keep forgetting to send the card back. At the promised
party, you and your love interest will exchange smoldering
glances over cans of Natural Light. After seeming to disap-
pear together for a few hours, the two of you will share 19
minutes of awkward silence. The person that you had
thought was so good looking will seem startlingly average
all of a sudden. He or she will awkwardly punch you on the
shoulder and say, “See you around,” and you will try to say
something funny that will .bori'ib terr’_i_bly,,Ip an aném}: to ‘ge‘t“i»

away, Ms Average will step on your left fool. Thai nightiyou 7'

will have terrifying nightmares about little corris. Lucky
color: Chartreuse.

 

You’ll probably get up or something, then go to class.
Your professor will talk for a while, then he’ll stop. Some
other stuff will happen, then you will go to sleep. Lucky
color: Clear.

 

Your best friend Donna will inform you that she is
bulimic, but don’t despair. She will be fine in an hour. Your
other best friend Kelly is happy to tell you that she has
kicked her addiction to diet pills. To celebrate, the three of
you will visit your fraternal twin brother Brandon at The
Peach Pit. Donna will eat 19 pieces of banana cream pie
before vanishing into the bathroom. You, Donna, and Kelly
will hit the mall to buy black lycra dresses. Between The
Gap and Express, you will learn a valuable lesson about
domestic violence. Evening brings a night of fun with your
platonic male friend David, who has been wearing the same
hat for six months. You will talk about music, then learn a
valuable lesson about impoverished children. You top off
the evening with a glass of milk. Lucky color:
Champagne blonde.

 

Q

Friday brings another fun night in Lexington. You will
have good intentions to spend the evening writing the seven
papers due Monday (last week), perhaps hoping to meet
someone nice on the fourth ﬂoor. Disaster occurs when a
friend, err acquaintance, err classmate, err total stranger
mentions offhand that “everyone” is going to The Palms.
You need little convincing to blow off all your work. Your
books are cheerfully tossed to the wind. You will meet a tall

‘dark'"s‘tra‘i'iger while you work your way through the alpha-‘ I
betical list of drinks on the menu. As the two,of,y.0lL_stumble ,,
ypmtenwtsthe

-

to “my place oi‘ yours” one of the friendl

plans. Lucky color: Mango.

  

- Apartments for Rent
to W&L students. 2 Two

Catering
bedroom apartments for rent

  
 

in

W&LlFE

tumPhi or

Lexington Police Department causes an abrupt change in 

Alvin-Dennis, Inc.
102 W. Washington St.

Get Ready For

9 l l . ‘
Ethan s really cool paper, The Rmg-tum Phi, April 1,1994

  

31%....

A chance meeting with an attractive Pisces proves to be
meaningless. Those who doubted you will continue to do
just that. All of the organizational problems you had when
Jupiter was in your stars will not improve. If you refuse to
give up your relentless search for a soul mate, it will make
absolutely no difference in your life. A search for creative
outlets proves fruitless. The lost item in your house will
remain lost. An Aquarius wearing blue with the letters S, T,
and J in his name will mean nothing to you. Your financial
situation will remain stagnant. No interesting long distance
phone calls will bring news. Your professional life will
remain unchanged. What begins as a dull day will turn into
a dull night. Lucky color: Beige.

 

Libras are known for their logic. Hence, you know very
well that horoscopes are nothing but meaningless drivel.
What are the chances that everyone with birthdays between
September 23 and October 22 will have the exact things
happen to them? Get real. The people who writehoroscopes
don’t believe them either; they are just trying to rip you off.
Just in case you feel a little gullible today, here is some
advice:

Don’t eat a sandwich from a gas station, and if someone
is going to take a picture of you eating some food, just hold
it next to your face and smile. Don’t actually eat it. Lucky
color: Raw Umber.

 

Your old ﬂame will call to tell you what a meaningless‘

sham life has become without you. A phone call to your
mother reveals that people who were mean to you in high
school have been sent to prison. You will find a twenty
dollar bill in the pocket of your jeans. The test you didn’t
study for is canceled. Your professor tells you that he thinks
you are an unappreciated genius. Paul McCartney asks you
to join him and the guys for the Beatles reunion. You are
visitedby the Publisher’s Clearinghouse Prize Patrol in
spiterloftthcv fact that you never 3 sent back the card. A
‘"'gorg‘e'bus“s‘l‘r?inger whisks you off to‘Mad_rid for the ultimate
cup of cafe eon leche. Best of all, it’s a good hair day. Lucky
Color: Red-Orange.

 

  
 

oscopc, just for got:

3 GONG OUT OF

downtown Lexington, just a very
short walk from the W&L campus.
$300 per month one unit; $375 per

Spring Break!

month larger unit.
—Great Location

——Landlord pays for water,

including hot water

If interested, please call property
manager, Mrs. Brown, daytime

463-3013; at night or weekends,

(703) 984-9402

Bad Company -

 

Stonewall Square Shopping Center
Lexlngton,V
463-9800

News MI;&.S§@§Q1:" thi.  Week.

-Knit Shirts
-Swim Suits

Visa MC

  

Ll

Dangerous Age

Cell - Living Room

Motley Crue - Self Titled
Sammy Hagar - Unboxed

Muddy Waters -

Howlin’ Wolf - Ain’t

33

One More Mile
Gonna be Your Dog

and many more!

(eaj jssj jejt-tej js)

@§_ii’1‘s:eﬂ

Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. 10a.m.-ll p.m.,

Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

F‘
4

 

-Duckhead Shorts —Ray

Winter Clearance Still In Progress

z?’*

44 4‘$’$’9'~V-33'-19907-¥~¥~¥

 

 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

uvu:nlIoI'I3- ,
lhccmlnrll ‘

By 9:00 Friday morning you will be wondering why you
even got out of bed. Your roommate will have used the last
of the coffee and toilet paper. Something you wear will.rip.
All of your nails will break. Your car will be stolen. You will '
fail three tests. Eighth graders with Mace will mug you and
take all of your money. Tonya Harding will beat your knee
with a collapsible metal baton while screaming, “Gilooly!” _
at the top of her lungs. And that’sjust in the morning. Lucky
color: Carnation Pink.

  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
   
   
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   

If I told you, it wouldn’t be a surprise now would it?
Lucky Color: You’ll see.

A quiet, but insistent voice in the back of your ea
convinces you to make some changes in your life. Yo
renounce all material goods and donate them to a worth
charity, such as The Ring-Tum Phi Olympic Bocci team.
The voice further urges you to shave your head, which yo
do by merely asking any barber in Lexington for a haircut
The voice prods you to sit lotus style in the middle of th
tennis courts to become more in touch with fuzzy yello
balls. The voice then convinces you to move to yoursp 'tua
homeland, Tibet. As you are happily chanting and fastin
you realize that your actions were not prompted by a littl
voice at all, but by leaving your stereo on. Lucky Color
Buddhist Monk Robe Orange. '

Focus on business. Invest in high-risk stocks and sevam
land in Florida. If it seems too good to be true, take it. If yo
are warned aboui it-by the Better Business Bureau, igno
them. Ask crack addicts to hold onto large amounts of cas

' and or credit cards for you. Sell high and buy low. Woul '
steer you wrong? Lucky-oolor: Money Green.

      
   
  
   
 
  
   

‘/

BUSINESS

SALE

Bans
-Sport Shirts
.-Sperry Cro Shoes

Student Charge

463-5383

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES

Everything Marked Down

Trains, Games, Models, Beads, Basket Making Suppliés,
Doll Parts. Much More In Craft and Hobby Supplies.

31 S. Main St.,

 
 
   
   
    
 
 
 
  
      
  

25%

Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5

Lexington 463-3355 .
// /

~ 4-13

 

Earn $2,000+ per month + world
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.) working for
Cruise Ships or Tour Companies.

Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time

employment available. For
employment program call:

Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-0468 ext.C5342

Within walking distance

I Call after 5 p.m. 261-6478

  

edroom house for rent.

 
 

from campus.

 

aaagaaeaea
Lexington {I

Shop for

Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories

W.

“P90

*3’ Hours: 10 - 5:3
2} Mon. - Sat.
,3, 23 N. Main St.
,3, 463-5988

aaaeaaaaae

O’
O

i£r~A'7fr7“4*‘i9z*;¢ri5ri5i'7k*ﬁr*:Hl**;¢ri9i'73i*i9x'i¢r

K

  Poin

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
p Open 4'p.m. until closing

$2 off any pasta dinner with

Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn

  

   

The
t of View

Restaurant

 
    

9

student I.D.

  

463-7797

  

  

    

PAGE V

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂliill

The Beating Pulse of Washingtonand bee
Founded September 18, 1492

Bogus
Bocci
Tournamen

It has happened again.

The government has tried to flex its puny muscles in an
effort to bully the people. Yes, the Executive Committee is
up to some more shady tactics. After not bothering to show
up for their first round Bocci match, they forced their
peurile way back into the tournament by threatening to sue
the university. Surely there are laws against this type of
calumny. If only someone would bother to read the student
body constitution!

Bocci Commissioner David Howison allowed EC Czar
Bob Tompkins to push his way back into the tournament.
Why? Who knows, but we think the diet is warping his
feeble mind.

But diet or no, we cannot overlook Howison’s failure as
Bocci Comissioner. And because of that, (and a few more
reasons that we will reveal momentarily) we must sue this
university.

It is clear that the Phi Olympic calibre Bocci team was
treated unfairly. After Round One of the Bocci tournament
the Phi team was clearly the first place team. We won our
first round match by 19 points, the largest margin of victory
in the tournament. We should have been given a bye.
Instead we were made to play a team that lost in the first
round!!!

To add to the insult, we were asked to play on a blustery
day with less than poor field conditions. Our team uniform
was not designed for off-season play. Its high tech construc-
tion was created to keep Bocci players cool under the
highest heats and intensest pressures. The weather was so
unfitting for Bocci that the former Phi Bocci captain injured
her sholder so badly she was no longer able to , write
personal critiques to her staff members. Doctors say a full
rehabilitation will cost hundreds of thousands of dollars.
From the outset this match was a travesty.

But there is more. The EC team, Czar Bob and his
henchpersons David Stewart and Allison Lewis (note: only
three EC members bothered to show. An official Bocci

team. is fougmembers.) broke theiriBoc_ciple_dge. They _ V i
could —no.t isvetiz muster om. C<zh9.£<?nI.:zﬁiritlgﬁ.?>f.T.,héE1Sl¢%..- ' 
together; For someone who talks big on paper, Czar Bob. I 

sure couldn’t conjure up a decent string of insults to our
faces. Our heckles were met with stares from Tompkins and
Stewart and a few small grins from Lewis. Without an
active opponent to heckle and to be heckled by we were left
with no choice but to heckle ourselves. We suggest the EC
go take a few lessons from The Trident.

Unlike the EC The Trident managed to come out for the
Bocci Tournament in force and they were excellent heck-
lers. Certainly if the un-Bocci-like EC can be allowed back
into the tournament then The Trident deserves to return as
well. After all, Howison has decided rulesjust don’t count.

So, the only thing we can possibly do is flex our muscles
and use the power of the press to our advantage. We will not
let this insane miscarriage of bocci continue. We will not
stop whining until the proper thing is done, and we will start
law suit proceedings immediately. How does $15 million
sound? Its good for starters. The Board of Trustees will be
hearing from our lawyers shortly.

P.S. Since we lost the Bocci game, we have to change our
uniforms, so we will be spending all of our money to redo

Q them. Sorry, we can’t help out with the Calyx debt.

Those of you who read this space on
a regular basis will know of my unen-
ing talent for annoying the administra-
tion of our es.t,e_e_ni_ed. university. What

1“ . most of you probably do not_:l<.now,,i,s

that in addition to having a fan club that
includes prestigious members like Dean
Howison, President Wilson, and a fair
portion of the frat population, I am also
a lifetime member of The Psychic
Friends Network. This, of course means
that I have the ability to see into the
future, and where else would I point my
psychic vision but at my soon to be (or
maybe not, after this) alma mater. So
here they are, my predictions for where
Washington and Lee will be 10 years
from now.
— Our presidential search con-
cluded, we will have appointed our
°irst ever female president, Mimi Elrod.
vlimi will have surpassed her husband
ohn who thought “ascending to the
’residency” meant putting a ladder up

OPINION

to the second ﬂoor of Washington Hall.
— Dennis Manning has become

our new Dean of Students after club- , ,

  
 
 

Pat has seen the future; here it is

as official embassies, confirming the
long standing “no entry” rule.
f‘ Washington and Lee Security

 

 

The Iﬂzg-tum Phi Kappa Alpha Delta Theta Pi Kappa Phi Psi , April 1, 19:94

-.1 »u....

—I

got a little bogged-down.” i
— The Pavilion undergoes Qiha

[ has become an annual renovation. Th ~‘

bing Davig; ii inithe knee. officers Mike Xoung and_,S._t, ,‘  stofg '_ uildin ‘npw ha}/in reaeher
  aimulti-million ..- Qmlinson, ,hav‘ii?;g"i récentlyi,,_Té§g.i§%ll“{i§  ’uiii\if5is ty  "
dollar libel  I I sued ‘fire-" dials are reported" as saying, “The cdn“
suit against arms, acci- struction ofthe Pavilion may have bee
The Specta- d e n t a l 1 y a mistake.” ‘ A
tor, Dean shoot Tom —The Executive Committee iﬂon
A n n e PATRICK Hespos as he tinuing itsideliberations with the Whit
S c h r o e r - “ ” returns to Book Review Committee overchanges
L a In 0 n t RUSH campus for in the schools honorcode.The ten year
founds The A 1 u m n i delay has been caused by an extensive
S c h r 0 e r - MCDERMUFP9 W e e k e n d. debate over whether to insert a period
Lamont Cen- ’94 The Officers or a semicolon in one section of th
ter for the are quoted as book. 0 '
Study of s a y i n g , — The Trident has taken the plac
Women at “Payback’s a of The Ring-tum Phi as the officia
Washington Bitch.” campus newspaper after receiving de

and Lee as generations of Southern
Gentlemen spin in their graves.

—- The Lexington Police Depart-
ment in cooperation with the U.S. State
Department, has named all fraternities

— Dr. Jim Worth announces the
completion of the Campus Alcohol Sur-
vey, which he initiated in 1993. When
questioned about the ten year wait he is
quoted as saying, “OK, so maybe we

velopment grants from The National

Enquirer and The Society for Inep

Journalists (Rush Limbaugh, Found

ing Member). ‘
Happy April Fools!

;v i

‘D; A-‘-F-‘-~b~:s.g.~"s..*:‘..»‘~

-=-—.¢..4

Ellie ﬁlling-mm lﬂhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Queen

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lee Press-on

News Editors . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sweet Thing, Sposey Hegpog

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dreamcicle

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Tl'ie Coming Queen

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Heartbreaker

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hector Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Deep Fried Sawyer, Hillary Rodham Olson

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Woman of Mystery

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Thrill

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jebthro Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Quiet Riot Wyatt

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin ' U-ivioney” Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .F1ick and Ransom

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally “That Girl” Oberrnueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Even We Don’t Know

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian “I Deliver” Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays and sometimes after strong electrical storms
during the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues and money we skim out of the Fancy Dress budget. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor, business manager and mascot, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

I Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday accompaniedby a $20 check to appear in that week’s edition.
Letters, Columns, and “My Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaperobserves current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity as well as good
fashion sense.

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

You just can’t beat change at W&  

As I look about the Washington and Lee campus,
re red bricks, the columns, the ivy; all remind me that
I&L is a school based on history and tradition. This

-.ict cannot be argued. One of these traditions, we
must not forget, is change.

When General Lee became president of the college
he implemented changes, many of which endure, to
bring then Washington College to a position of promi-
nence in American higher education. Recently, though,
I have noticed an increasing number of students who
wish to halt academic progress, rather than pursue it.

Washington and Lee needs a rebirth, again, to
bring it up to the standards of an ever-progressive
university. These new changes will not be easy; they
will meet, as many brave and different concepts often
do, with challenge upon challenge. First of these
changes should be a well-balanced school, one which
represents the world in which we live, beautiful in its
variation and differences. It would be difficult for a
school to train leaders for a world which school itself
is nothing like.

The university should encourage minority student
applications, offering incentives in the form of schol-
arships and the like. The university should operate in

a gender blind manner, allowing for near-equal ad-
mittance of fine women and men.

In a world which is becoming ever-more special-
ized, W&L must offer those programs which allow
our students to keep up with the changing world. New
programs such as Women’s, African-American,
Asian-American, Irish-

American, and Franco-
American Studies should

service or other such community-based solution.
Any speech or conduct which “expresses cia
ethnic, or religious prejudice such as slurs, jokes, , ,
taunts, and any disparaging references to racia
ethnic, or religious stereotypes” (Racial and Sexu
Harassment policy, Office of the Presiden
Middlebury College, Ver
mont). should not be tolerate
by the university or iﬁ st

be offered. Such programs

  

dents.

could only start to undo CLINTON F- In short, change is one o
the Euro-centrism which _ the most exciting of W&L

has plagued the American  '3  HERBERT traditions. Those of the pa
intellectual landscape for  ‘ WALKER KUCERA, and those listed by this auth
so long. To further right ‘  ,97 and others was and is it
these wrongs, the General I 9 change for the sake of cﬂang

Education requirements

should be changed in or-

der to rid the curriculum of European History and

other such Western imperialistic courses.
Furthermore it is antithetical to the aims of any

university that any atmosphere could exist in which

students feel uncomfortable. Thus students using of-

fensive speech should be punished with community

it is change for the bette
When one loves something,
is change for the better. When one loves somethin
as many of us love W&L, one doesn’t want to s
it change; it is for that very love, however, that
must welcome change rather than fear it.

As a T-shirt seen recently around campusrea
“Do it for W&L.”

Please forgive me: Phi framed 

I am scandalized. Over the past
months I have been done a great wrong:
through clever editing, the arch—fascist
staff of TheRing-tum Phi has made me
appear to be a conservative —although
nothing could be further from the case.
For example, in a recent article the Phi
reported me as stating that marijuana is
a “valueless, mind-altering drug.” In
reality, what I had written was “Mari-
juana is a gift from God, and I like to
share it with little children.” A bit more
reasonable, no?

In fact, to underscore my commit-
ment to left-wing ideology, I am with
this article announcing the immediate
fonnation of the People’s Revolution-
ary Party of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. I hope all liberals of good faith
will join me in advancing these impor-
tant goals:

1) The hierarchy of American soci-
ety should be immediately stripped of
all wealth and power. J. Crew and
Land’s End shall be closed. All BMWs
and Saabs shall
become com-

4) To protect our Mother Earth,
electrical power will be prohibited.
Trees will become US citizens.

5) To continue the heartening trend

a l r e a d y
evident at

 

mon property. Washing-
g) The fed- ton and

t L , ll -
$5?if°”§2"y"‘°"a NICHOLAS L- m‘1‘I' ii‘. i .22
bounty of [DE ’ sexual in-
$5,000 to all  W Y’  hibitions
“patriot moth-,  will be un-
ers” who prom— dermined
ise to have as and abol-
many children ished, by

as possible out of wedlock.

3) Black History Month shall be
renamedBlackHistoryIndeﬁniteTime
Period, and all those who criticize it
shall be publicly flogged.

beer if necessary. ,1-

6) Dr. Dre will composea new na-
tional anthem medley to the, catchy
tunes of his gangster rap repertoire.

7) Harb’s will be nationalized, and

forced to serve good proletaria.‘fa,'
franks and beans. eel  j

8) To remedy past discriminati
only_ women will be allowed to ‘V
fighters in the Air Force. Asians will»
discouraged from majoring inipath

If these demands are not met_wit I

\48 hours, I will instruct the Iﬁvol

tionary Vanguard to begin the arm
struggle. Deans, professors, and C0-
lunch ladies — as pillars of theest
lished social order— will be the firs‘,
be targeted. ‘ ~
The campaign of violence will

on unabated until bourgeois capyali.
and the fraternity system are replac
with utopian socialism. We are by
ture peaceful men (and womyn, a
androgenes, and people undergoi
hormone treatment), but injustice m
be fought!

i
\

 

O

' he Ring-tum Stickeri Bum et cetera Phi, April 1, 1994

OPINION

 i lose your eyes for the Dream

pos’ SPACE
' Tom Hespos

When one walks into Richard
’ eaver’s Central Headquarters at the
igma Nu fraternity house, one can't
elp but feel overcome. Posters of eco-
omb genius Mike Smitka grace the
alls. Motown CDs accentuate the
teful rack system on his dresser. A
4. all Betta fighting ﬁsh, aptly named
’ 'tta Theta Pi, swims lazily about in a
exagonal tank, basking in the glory
at is Dream Weaver.
We asked the Weaver of Dreams 20
ppropriate questions, to delve deeper
to the mind of one of America’s true
otnic geniuses:

SFX: (Jackson 5 singing “ABC” in
ackground)

I: Which do you prefer, ﬂame-
roiled or fried?

Weaver: I’m a vegetarian. I saw
Bambi” once and it moved me.

PHI: Who is your favorite apostle?

Weaver: John.

PHI: Are there any other Weavers

at we have to worry about?
ver: I have a younger brother,
andy.
PHI: What’s your favorite James
~ - nd movie?
Weaver: A View to a Kill. The
ason I like A View to a Kill is that it
asa reat theme song by Duran Duran.
'ud all James Bond movies by their
eme songs. I’m an 80s type guy, and

‘I uran Duran] are 805 type people and
e mesh well together. I’m like the
ird Duran.

PHI: If someone gave you free tick-

to go see ZZ Top, would you go?
ver: Yes.

PHI: How do you get water stains
ff of your coffee table?

Weaver: I’m not used to furniture,

so I don’t have any. I don’t have that
problem.

PHI: How would you describe your
perfect woman?

Weaver: Ms. Crawford and I choose
not to discuss our private lives.

PHI: What’s your favorite dirty
nursery rhyme?

Weaver: I don’t have one.

PHI: Oh, come on.

Weaver: Um... The Big Book of
Fairy Tales, by Doug Clark.

PHI: Do ‘you
ever check under
your bed for dust
bunnies?

Weaver: N 0,
but I do check for
monsters before I
go to bed. I hear
voices for a couple
of hours each day.
I think they’re
coming from under

V my bed, or they

could be inside my
head, in my teeth.
Martians have im-
planted little sig-
nals in my teeth.
They’re trying to
talk to me, mess
with my mind and
steal my secrets.
I’m not paranoid...
really.
SFX: (Bottle of
pills rattling for 5 seconds. Three gulps.)
PHI: Do you picture yourself with
hair in 20 years?
Weaver: Yes. Long, blonde hair.
PHI: If you could kill one professor
in the C-School, who would it be?
Weaver: Kill is rather a harsh word.
I’d have to say “just really hurt badly
and make him suffer.” You’ll read it in
the newspapers next week.
PHI: Have you ever considered
writing a self-help book?

Weaver: l’ve considered writing a
How To Dress book... Clothes are my
thing. People look to me to see what’s
in season. I feel I’m there for people
that way... We’re really a far_nily over
at the Phi, andl wantyou to know that
I really care about helpingthe people at
this university.

PHI: Is Frosted Flakes just a kid’s
cereal? _

Weaver: It’s really not, though. It

goes in the cat-
egory ‘of Fruit
Roll-Ups and
other stuff like
that. It’s really
bad for you, but
as a kid, you’re
restricted from
having it. So,I
think it’s not a
kid’s cereal at
all. It’s a food
for middle-aged
fat people.

S F X :

(Michael Jack-
son singing
“Beat It” in the
background.)

PHI: Do you

think '~ they
should stop
making Police
Academy mov-
ies?

Weaver: I
think they ought to merge Police Acad-
emy movies and Friday the 13th mov-
ies. They could save money that way.

PHI: That’s a good idea.

Weaver: See, I care about the
economy, too. I also care about the
environment and the rainforest and The
Trident — I want to help them all out.

PHI: Has anyone in your family
ever been diagnosed with a severe
mental illness?

Weaver: Well, when one of us has

a mental illness, we just shoot them.

PHI: That’s a lot like the ancient
Greeks. They used to leave defonned
children up on mountain tops to die.

Weaver: Luckily, I lived.

PHI: What do you think about UNC
not making it to the Sweet 16 this year?

Weaver: I really don’t follow sports.

PHI: If you could tell Elvis one
thing, what would it be?

Weaver: Get out from underneath
my bed.

PHI: Have you ever spent a Friday
night alone?

Weaver: Yes.

PHI: Care to elaborate?

Weaver: No.

PHI: Okay — then what’s your
favorite Slurpee ﬂavor? .

Weaver: I like the blueberry kind.
They have it in Florida. The 7-Eleven
I go to, right next to the beach, has it.
They get it really cold. You micro-
wave it before you take it out of the
store so you can drink it.

PHI: I never thought to do it that
way.

Weaver: (Laughs).

PHI: Can you make anything» of

. this surge of polar bears in the news

media today?

Weaver: I would prefer three-ton
whales stuck under ice, but in terms of
animals that are just suckers for public-
ity, you really have to think about el-
ephants.

They’re always complaining about
ivory and stuff. And who really cares?
I like ivory. I think we should have a lot
of ivory.

As a matter of fact, we should have
ivory-lined fraternity houses. We could
have mink fur on the walls. We should
have everything endangered possible
because we are bastions of capitalism
and debauchery. Forget what I said
about Bambi.

SFX: (Small animal
squooshed underfoot.)

being

  he man behind the space: Hespos

7-‘REAMLAND

, Richard Weaver

fuzzy feeling. It makes me reminisce. '
Q: Are you sure that feeling isn’t the belly button

pain instead?
A: No.

Of the many exciting personalities on the Wash-
tgton and Lee campus, Torn Hespos deﬁnitely has to
= nk somewhere. I’m’ not sure where, but that’s not the
I int. The point is that we should all know Tom better,
ven if anesthesia is required to get through it.
LC’s begin round one of our get-to-know you

-: ion:

Q: Exactly how much do you weigh?

A: It’s tough to say, but the last time I checked was
hen I was going through PE. 102 (Adoptive and
1 rrective Exercise) and I ﬂuctuate between 240 and

.45 pounds.
Qallow much of that do you at-
fbute to the Letitia Pate Evans Dining
all?
A: The dining hall actually contrib-
tes a lot, because I tend to get really
A asted on weekends and go there for
much the next day. The whole drink-
g-aw!-food thing makes my weight
0 through the roof.
Q: Are you planning a lawsuit?

A: Yes, I plan to sue Dean Howison. M, NEWS “mm mm “Enos

» st because everything in the world
oes through his office.

Q: Is any part of your body currently infected?
A: No, not currently. To tell the truth, though, I get
‘ is shkening sensation in my stomach when I stick

y finger in my belly button.

Q: What’s your favorite Madonna song?
A: “Like A Virgin,”because it gives me that warm,

.2

games?

Q: Should the Generals utilize voodoo in their

A: Absolutely. If they had used voodoo prior to
the Bermuda Bowl, nothing bad could have come

Q: Who would you choose as

and Lee?

the new president of Washington _

I I A: That’s a toughiefl have ‘de-
voted a lot of thought to this, but if
I had to make a judgement, I would
definitely say Moke Wolfe, because

he has the capacity to do whatever
he wants if he sets his heart to it.

“Darren?”

Q: On the TV show, Bewitched,
did you prefer the ﬁrst or second

ALTER-EGO SPOS

A: I really had

no preference, but I was kind of
offended that the TV industry would
try to putone over on me. Did they
think I wouldn’t notice? That of-
fends me.

Q: Aren’t I a cool person?

A: Richard Weaver is a very
cool person insofar as his musical
tastes are far superidhto anybody I

know.

roni?”

once in Little League.

i nterviews and Photos

4: yi Phil

Q: Should it be called “macaroni
and cheese” or “cheese and maca-

A: Deﬁnitely cheese and macaroni. If you go
through the ingredients, you can see cheese is the
larger of the two ingredients in proportion.

Q: Do you believe in voodoo?

A: To some extent. It helped me hit a curveball

family?

from it. They should have sacriﬁced
live chickens before the plane left.

‘f’: Q: "What: wouldtyou name your

 ,5-,;, -.- ;.:...  , -1- .. :..

7' ’ ‘A: My son would have to be Tho-‘
mas F. Hespos, Jr. My daughter would
be named Quasimodo Quogue. It’s a
small town on the east end of Long
Island and it’s a really cool name.
Plus that name will ensure that boys
will not want to date her when she’s
16. It will make my job a little bit
easier. And Uncle Vito’s, too.

Q: Who is your favorite member of the Jackson

A: Definitely Tito. I like him because of his hat
he wore on that Jackson 5 cartoon. I have a really

cool hat like it, but I only wear it when I’m playing

a**hole.

Q: Isn’t it hard to pronounce words with aster-
isks in them?

A: Sometimes you have to stop and look over
what the word might be.

Q: What’s your fish like?

A: He’s an African black rubber eel. His name is

Gus, because I name all my fish Gus, after this

alcoholic dude my Dad hired a couple of summers
ago. He liked to get bottles of gin during work hours
and sit in the van and talk to himself when I drove.

There, that wasn’t that painful. You may now
pick up your final exam on this material from Carol

Calkins. Good luck!

TALKBACK

Fat?

The Fat People’s Club will be
holding an organizational meeting
in Payne and Newcomb Halls on
Wednesday at 6 p.m. Comejoin the
fun.

Ride

I need a ride to Oregon on April
3. Will pay for gas, food, hotels,
nighttime entertainment, personal
masseuse, long-cut roses, etc. Call
Bill at 463-5532.

Job

Needed ASAP: person to fill the
office of President of Washington
and Lee University. No experience
required; must have good working
knowledge of bricks. Apply out-
side the Co-op.

WLUR

WLUR 91.5 will broadcast
HowardStem’smomingradioshow
from now. Complaints may be reg-
istered in Reid Hall. Or go screw
yourself.

General Notes are compiled by Vincimus 'I‘urner.

Democrats  

The College Democrats will be
conducting a seminar, “How to
Deny Just About Anything With A ’
Straight Face,” on S‘ugnd_ay at 2 pm. ’
in the Arlington Women’s Center.. ~ »
The group’s recent purchase of the
Brooklyn Bridge will also be dis-
cussed. ..

FDA:

Members of the Fancy Dress
committeewillbesellingtheirsouls
outside the Co-op on Friday. Come
by and help make up that budget
deficit!

Calyx

Come have your picture taken
forthis year’s Calyx! Please! We’ll
pay YOU. We’ll bill it home to
OUR parents! We’ll give you a
free set of Ginsu knives just for
showing up! Come to the Univer-
sity Center.

Lex/W&L

The Lexington residents/Wash-
ington and Lee students together-
ness group will meet at Sharks next
to the Mortal Kombat game on
Monday at 6 p.m.

Ed Yoder is the root of
all evil in the world

To the editor:

I am writing once again to protest
the luciferogous actions of Professor
Ed Yoder. ,

I now have conclusive proof that
Yoderwas on the grassy knoll in Dal-

las ana*'ﬁ':e‘d me‘ silver‘ brillet"V"\3hl'c§h“7'

killed JFK. Not only did’he kill JFK
and cover it up, but the evil Yoder went
on to provoke the Vietnam War in the
late 19605.

What kind of man would work to
bring down a president and then accept
underhand payments from Bill
Clinton ’s campaign? And don’t forget,
Ed Yoder shot J.R. Ewing in front of
millions of people. And how is he

rewarded? The arch-fascists of Wash-
ington and Lee University give him
office space and young people to cor-
rupt and make fun of in The Washing-
ton Post.

It’s the people like Ed Yoder who
 ﬁﬁﬁilfhe light’ ‘of trtrth, and I’ve

I decided that I am the-flashlight of jus-

tice, and I’m going to shine in on the
evil Yoder.

I hereby challenge him to a duel, to
be aired live on television.

As it is said in the movies, “I’m

gonna git you, sucka.”

Dr. Gary Martin
Sector 4, The Bermuda Triangle

Roddey thanks Bob for
advice, cash

To the editor: ‘

I’ve decided to take all of the money
The Ring-tum Phi saved up this year,
and go to Bermuda with it.

I’d like to thank Bob Tompkins for
giving me the sheer inspiration to do a
good job on the business side. If we had
more people like Bob, newspapers in
the country would be a lot better.

If I hadn’t followed his inspira-

tional financial reasoning, the Phi
would have only had enough money
for me to take off to south Georgia.

Sorry I couldn’t keep those pesky
news people at the Phi from bothering
you less, but you know how they are
sometimes.

Thanks for the spending money!

Kevin “G-Money” Roddey

How would you look with Professor Smitka’s beard?

J. D. Futch, Professor of Goslren &
ndolas — ‘‘I look like Lincoln!
is is blasphemy!"

Ashby Hackney, ’94, absentee E. C.
Secretary -— “I’d hate to think what
Professor Smitka looks like in this
thing.”

El Presidente John Wilson and Ellen Lewis, ’92 — “We couldn’t be happier

to be wearing such a great beard. Hey, bonds, Daddy!”

David Howison, Dean of Bocci —
“No sir, I don’t like it. I am not a
Smitka-beard person.”

Anne Schoer-Lamont, Dean of Re-
lations Between Opposing Genders
and Intersexual Phenomena-“This
isn’t the kind of beard I’d chose; Mine
would be a mutton chops and mus-
tache combo, original, like me. I just
gotta be me!”

  
  

  

PAGE ATE

Generals football

lost in storm
While quizzing

By SIRAH GLIBBERT
Phi Not-quite Homecoming Queen
nominee

“lt’s an ill wind that blows no one
good,” a wise man once said.

The only good Hurricane Michael
blew the Washington and Lee Gener-
als this week was a prolonged vacation
from the University —— how long the
Generals will be lost at sea is yet to be
discovered.

The Generals were on their way to a
quiz bowl in Bennuda when their char- .
tered/stolen/borrowed/beggedjet/boat/ -
raft/hang glider was crashed in the
famed Bermuda Rhombus.

Now, just imagine how amazing
this story would have been if it had
been finished before the deadline.

In fact, ﬁll in your own story. If you
like it, show it to your friend. Maybe
you will discover a hidden talent. All
because I did not finish this story be-
fore 7 a.m.

What can I say. I am a humanitarian.

{:4

E3?

    

0
The Ring-tum Phi, It’s the end of the world as we know it, but we feel ﬁne

SPORTS

| ﬁloxe /\X),L2‘\/lT—2.-’l2«'Lv\g-tuvvx. pkl’
/VV\a}ar General awarels
car tke lien sexiest, /W  Faculty

6

/) €9a/tam (go//hilon
2) ﬂat/naea Séraymtta
3) .%mm Wham
24)  Wm?/I

5) gamed 

6') gwmmd 93005405
7 ) ge// Ma;/9/%

8) (9%/heme 
.9) Qltma .0/P’/ma

/0) go/m <7/unﬂinme

gjke fmaiar Generals were clsosen lay tke wewxevx at: We ’Q«'Lv\g-iiuwx 

 

 

 

4-M

ené .-

'WEFW

1 ‘T

_‘__~.___-__—___..__---_____...____....____--__-_‘..___

   

  

12-2:30 p.m.

Our spectacular Easter Buffet will overwhelm you with
a dazzling array of entrees, fresh fruits, vegetables,
and our chef ’s luscious desserts

Sizes

Adults: $13.95
Children: $6.95 (age 10 & under)

Reservations requested, so call now,
as seating is limited!

463-3020

..--__-___-.—_‘_—____‘--—_--..__---_-‘,_——s.-‘—_---‘

‘IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

__-.__—.._.-._u.
‘--______—-.—u.‘--__.—.._‘_——‘_‘___.....—_——.-‘.___

Self Storage Now Open

Open 8 a.m. -5 p.m. daily,
by appointment on Saturday.

I

i

I

I rt. 0

E W I L LS O N _ Reserve your unit now for summer months

i w A L K E R  R   While ‘t‘V?“a."‘.e-a   . -    

: H OU SE Excellent location in Downtown Lexington —— ii to ,_

l R N M u Mr M Basement of Domino ’s Pizza 3’ '..

i 30 N. Main, Lexington 453-3020 Catering to W&L students, walk to storage from 2641:‘: 6 Fr‘  ll
5   F V campus in 2 minutes. 

l ‘w@c ‘MW  reasonable low rates, by month or year.  in I
E

I

1

Call Mrs. Brown, property manager .

       
   
    
    

  

/.
Saturday Morning-‘ All U Can Eat Pancakes
Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

Breakfast Buffet 4 i
Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m.
Sunday 9 a.m.-2 p.m.

from 4'x8' to 8'x12‘. '

    

C&I Associates - 463-3013 Rt. 11 North 463-3478. O_pen 24 Hours 4‘
after 5 P-m- (703) 934-9402 

               

     

 

or Uniforms -
Fast Service. Great
Price

     

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

—_

       

   
 

  

4 ., .( .._-
»« ... .
,:'.‘.'£".-,5

        

A s ~  ‘
.; 1)» ‘-.‘;':‘¢i}~::';.-'?'v-_‘.-'.~.-A

7/Fail/z&4e

umowaae STORES '5‘

I
I

-,n

 
 
  

 
    
   

   
 
   

  
 
   

and :7{estaurant    V_. .. ’ ' . - . .
Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights _,;‘:
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen, "-9

Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. 

- Six Room lnn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dininu

463-2186

."’zif

Check us for your
next screen print
  needs!

 
  

  

I
./ YES! 1 want to study in AusrRAL1Ai.

I ' I  Special Winter Package 5,
 Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only #3":
_ I Study Ahmad at I  Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00 -
3‘ }£rL1t  ieanz 5 71-1 I CURTIN UNIVERSITY I ,,§' lncludes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two "
- I  (Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays) '

. . at.‘ 1.

   Nelson St. I . Couriﬂess stu(ly.Chmces évaﬂable I  Gift Certificates Now Available _
. , , I Australian studies, Aborigmal studies and many more I -~.--,_; , , , 3,1,-,,
 Lexington S Complete Sporting Goods Store  I Programs to Asia June /Iu1y_ can for a brochure_ I ‘,3, Open Daily Dining Hoursg'"g(qe;.I-:att(.) & Monday groups of 10+) 
I ' I Call for reservations: 703-463-9715 

1- 800-245 -2575 .  ,.  _‘ . - .,. 4..     - ..,.   _._. - ..,.   ,2‘

I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ — — _ _ _ — _ ‘ 2 -E531‘*‘%f:=’-tiff!‘*3-"ﬁ%€\$‘a:-35%33é=%25§t§=’z*‘1%‘z;EE§?’££5334’-5'45""-‘1’5':3=E§"4Sﬁ“a:"'*‘%f:=ékr

 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 

   
  

5

Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.
Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

      
   

,-. 

   
   
 
  
  
     
 
    
    

,l\-,:,‘._11." qt ._. x .
r‘.-3:‘ ‘a':'?;I.j£}‘éZr?"'l'g‘:§;~;.:,"i-}§2:?'ﬁ':h;.;§ii§§§"‘ ‘

V
In
.4.

    
  
 

    
  
  
    

"K. "1
'33.,
5'25. tar.‘-
:,i'l_'x 

  

     
      
 
   
      
   
 
 
 

  

 
     
    

    
   

  

    
  

   

     
   
  

 

 

5- '§z—cARD. BOX 16516, ATLANTA. GA 30321
I
Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  ‘HST CARDG
, accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa0 and MastciQn:l0 I Q l "a"tvlSA°/ ER Gum
—— Now Showing —— credit (-ards..."in your mmc." i.-:vi:N IF You Am: NEW IN I Caidsappmved immediately. 1oo°/. GUARANTEED!
My GI" 2 CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 'iURNi:D DOWN BE!-DRE! . . .5
Daily 6:4 p.m. Rated PG VISAS and Mastcrcarde the credit cards you I , - ‘
Sat. & Sun. 1:30 & 6:45 p.m. deserve and need i’or— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT | NAME
——-——-—, S'l‘ORES—TUITlON—ENTERTAlNMENT-- .
B°:$h9,‘ggg',’: and  - ADDRESS
aiy 2 : p.m. - -
Sa, 8, Sun‘ 1.00‘ 3,00, 5,00, REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD voua CREDIT RATING! I CITY STATE —ZIP
7:00 8: 9215 p.m. Rated PG-13 : STUDENT? Yes No 55! C

':""?""— No turn downs!

Da|i:P6_l4'5%?nn ﬁglegge G“3$’51EllC\B9 No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE

Sat. & Sun. 1:30 & 6:45 p.m. V\:"3‘l::.,‘.1£I.‘° 3“ No security deposit! ' Norri-; wM:sai:(;a'i:ig:l:'§::;i:d"nu;d;n‘TIg(A¢{l:!I:.Iﬂ

261-7292 . 55"” “"5 °°“*’°" ‘°"“‘,' I
{Q75 5ee¢hAve_,3uenav.sty YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING. L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _‘_

 

 

I he Kindler, Gentler Ring-tum Phi parody issue, April 1, 1994

E us

    

REDUCED PRICES 
SELECTED VARIETIES 
HEBREW NATIONAL J‘

 

   
  
 
 
 

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS. SKINLESS

BONELESS  

   Hams Teeter  
  M

  
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

.71
 I SOOOOOOOOLBO
v . -4*--o. ':?*-.  -_
3 .3 ‘Y'\ -‘a__  ..  “_ V _
‘ “.x,, 
; ., "' .‘, _
7 .  .
’ N

 1% LOW PRICES
. , KIWI OO
  FRUIT ................ . 
"  FRESH WHOLE « I89
PINEAPPLE ..... ..EACH
~' WHITE SEEDLESS I49
GRAPES ............ ..us.
ITALIAN CREMINI 49
gMUSHROOMS 8 OZ.PKG.

ﬁ 

SELECTED VARIETIES

OCEAN SPRAY
CRANBERRY JUICE

il“

 

PEPSI OR
DIET PEPSI

 

WEEKLY SPECIAL

SELECTED VARIETIES

'M|CHEL|NA’S
    ENTREES

» 199

WEEKLY SPECIAL -

IN THE DEU-BAKERY

APPLE OR CHERRY
TURNOVERS

 

SPORTS

 

 

PAGE NUEVE

 
    
    

“T299  

   

I HARRIS TEI:TER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT

SELECTED VARIETIES I

SALON sELEcnvEs HAIRIB9
CARE PRODUCT 

 .97
FRY

I4-I602.

OZ.
HT REGULAR, BBQ OR

HT RIPPLE I
POTATO CHIPS 82. 066

sELEcrED VARIETIES
O99
\7ERMIcELu

VI P STIR
CREAMETTE 
SPAGHETII 7oz.U59~

IN THE DELI- BAKERY
I79

 

Prices Effective Throu h

Prices In This Ad Eltective Wednesday‘ March 2_3 Through Tu s 06 March 29,1 99:! ‘In our Lexington
4 OnIy.We Reserve The Right To LlmlI Quontmes. None Sol To

NACHO
 SELECTED "I202.
March 29, I934

VARIETIES PKG-
eolers. We Glodly Accept Federal food Stamps.

BOCCI BY THE NUMBERS

Standings as of the EC’s horrendously unfair defeat of the Phi bocci team

Leading Hecklers

Player Pts lgpg
Greg Patterson 666 6
Tom Hes os 665 332.5
Spencer olladay 501 7
Fran Kefalas 117 13
Bob Tompkins 116 89
Michael Hewlett 114 99
Beth Provanzana 98 17

Leading Suers

Amount

Player L
$unspeciﬁed millions

Bob Tompkins
Fran Kefalas
(represented by
RZIJCCV “Reggie” Aggarwal
and Hampton Nager, Esqs?
$384896 milion

Bocci moment of the week...

 

This photo is lovely ; Sarah IS the one with the smaller butt.

Bob Thomkins, EC czar, and Sarah Gilbert, Ring-tum Phi queen, face off in the last bocci
‘ game. The next is March 25, _today, freshman mertiyyersus fresman. women. , 
1 9‘ “T    :_ ‘.-   f‘! V — , i .

I I I I I I I I I T I l l l I I I I I I I I I I T 1 I I J I l l I l I I I I I I II
I I I I 1 I I I I I I I I I 1 I I L I l I I l l I I I I I I I I I l l I I I I I II

LLI i 1 i i i i i i i 1 i I i I I I I nunrnr r i i i i i i i i i 1 1 i r i i i E I I 1 1 I : E I E i 1 E E i i 1 1 1 1 i u
l I l I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I E E I I I I I I I I I I I I I I l I A I I I I E I E I I I I I I I I I I l I I I T I I I I I I I [I

I
IIIILIIIILIIEIIYTIIIIIIIIIIII

IE1

Tlllllllllllll

   

IIIIIYTIII IIIIIIIIITIIIIIILLIJIIIIIIII

 

  1994-95

Z Editor for Calyx :
 Business Manager For Caylx ~
 Editor For Political Review
 Editor for Journal of Science 
I Editor for Ariel I :

Resumesand Cover Letters Due
April 1, 5 p.m.
in Carol Calkins’ O ”

Interviews April 25

IIIITTTIIITTTI

ice

 

I
: I I I I I I I I I I I T 1 1 I J l I l l I I I I l I J I I l I I I I I I I I I I IIIII l l I l I I I I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITTI I I I I I I l l I I I I l I I I I I I I I I I I I T l I I I I I l ll

M-aura:-v

 

 

Last Week:

THIS IS A TEST. THIS IS ONLY ATEST. IF THIS HAD BEEN A REAL ISSUE, YOU MAY NOT HAVE LAUGHED.

People at W&L ran, jumped,

threw, and played with all ‘
different sizes of balls

 

@112 ilting-tum iﬂlti

Spears

  

Next Week:

Someone will win, someone
will lose, we all will watch
them happily athleticize

PAGE 12

  .

VILBER

   
   

If I ’agilenaveinadjtiiezgtaiii‘?
1asn’.t;forher.’Shejsibeen .

 now you ‘l<n‘ow.I Arrest”

 
 

rnorei

 

 

 
   

  

innocent!  

; ~0N:*;3-SifORTS- 

Gilbert arrested in injury -

BOCCI, RUNNING, JUMPING, THROWING THINGS, PLAYING WITH BALLS

APRIL 1, 199

chaeffer Victim in horrible plot

bstruetingjnstice all-the; ;
.. ~’:‘time,—,and*you-thought» that-I 7 .
- .shewvas’sucha good.W&L; _
honor -type s'tudent.7We1l,» . I

} : 3‘Frarr!; ]3_gon-’t,vjlet he’rIsl<ate— -3:’

 

  
 
   
 
 
  
    

     

Photo by the crown prince

Junior Sarah Gilbert ﬂies through the air with the greatest of ease in her relentless pursuit of sopho-
more goddess Josephine Schaeffer. Gilbert was quoted as saying she hated Schaeffer and plotted to
overthrow her after she stole the MVP award from Gilbert in 1993.

  

SP5 "H

Nancy Kerrigan, Olympic figure skater and also victim of a clubbing attack, skates in this-life-like
drawing by artist-to-be Thomas “I think she really wants a Cherry Mentholyptus” Hespos.

W&L to become Division 

By STEPHEN WILLOOLY
Phi Breaker of Hearts

In a startling move recently,
the National Collegiate Athletic
Association recommended that
Washington and Lee move up to
Division I competition.

“The committee took all the
factors into consideration before
making this decision,” remarked
Washington and Lee athletic di-
rector Mike Walsh.

Despite statements to the con-
trary, rumors are circulating that
the Generals are soon to replace
the University of Virginia in the
Atlantic Coast Conference.

“We would be glad to have
such a stand-out addition, but I
just don’t know if we’re up to
their level of competition,” said
Duke University athletic direc-
tor Tom Butters.

“The last time we took in a
new school, Florida State
promptly embarrassed us by beat-
ing us out for second in the ACC,
" said University of North Caro-
lina Basketball coach Dean

Smith.

“I just don’t know if the con-
ference is ready for such a bas-
ketball-football powerhouse.”

Walsh declined to comment
on the issue, saying simply, “We
just want what’s best for the
school.”

Also courting the Generals are
the Big East and Southeastern
Conference.

W&L football coach Gary
Fallon relishes the challenge of
big time competition.

“It’s about time we got the
chance to play with the big boys.
We’ve been ready for this for
years in my mind,” said the W&L
head coach.

Several big-name basketball
players have been reported to be
considering transfering to W&L.
Jason Kidd of the University of
California was one of the most
notable along with Jerry
Stackhouse of UNC and Joe
Smith of Maryland.

According to Kidd, it would
be quite a privelege to play for
W&L.

“I just hope I can fit into the

amazing chemistry they have
there. I know I’ll take a cut in
playing time, but it’s worth it.”

“Yeah, I know about Kidd and
all those guys, but we would all
have to wait a year. I’m kind of

ByKElTH “RiPKEN’s LAST-SECOND GAME-WINNER” GRANT
Phi Sports poet

Lexington police have arrested the person they believe was th
ring-leader of the attack on Washington and Lee All-America
runner Josephine Schaeffer.

Sarah Gilbert, a W&L junior, has been charged with “Conspiri
to Hurt a Better Athlete Real Bad.” This is the first time the char
has been used on a non-figure skater.

Gilbert, the former sports editor of the Phi and a track teaﬁma
of Schaeffer’s, is the third suspect to be arrested.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard says Gilbert was behind t
March 13 attack that has left Schaeffer’s right leg in a brac
According to Beard, Gilbert planned the entire scheme in hopes (
replacing Schaeffer as the team’s top distance runner.

“She was a jealous bitch,” Beard said of Gilbert. “She ju
couldn’t deal with the attention that sweet, little runner was ggttin
Besides, she’s from Oregon!”

Gilbert has denied having anything to do with the assault. S
did, however, comment on Schaeffer.

“She’s nothing,” said Gilbert. “All she ever does is run, run, ru
What’s so special about that? I do every other event there is to do a
nobody ever cares!”

Investigators say Gilbert devised the plan with estranged lov
Stephan Willooly. Willooly was arrestedjust days after the ineide
along with Gilbert’s bodyguard-goon and alleged hit-man, To
EckSpos.

The night of the incident, Schaeffer was training on the W&
track when EckSpos reportedly came out from behind the stadit‘
with a lead pipe and ran towards Schaeffer. The track star failed
even notice the approaching attacker and continued running. EckSpc
unable to catch up to Schaeffer, eventually collapsed from dhau
tion and fell to the ground, causing such a tremor that Schaeffer f
sideways and injured her right knee. With several fraternity parti
having gone on that night, police failed to think anything
EckSpos’ unconscious body on the track for two days.

A fourth suspect, the alleged get-away driver, is still at lar
Police identified the suspect as Blondie Brien and say she was I
seen entering the hair and cosmetics section of K-mart four da
ago. Police have been staking out the area ever since, but say she h
yet to emerge.

Gilbert was arraigned at the Rockbridge County Courtho
yesterday while her supporters rallied outside. Gilbert was t
founder ofthe National Organization for Tonya (N.O.T.) and is mt
famous for her Ring-tum Phi weekly defenses of fellow Oregoni
Tonya Harding, who recently plea bargained her way out of; gra
jury indictment in the Nancy Kerrigan attack.

Track team head coach Jim Phemister said he is glad the wh
thing will soon be over.

“Ever since that whole Harding thing, Sarah was always walki.
around at practice with a pipe and laughing at everybody. Ever
body she competed against she’d call ‘Nancy’,” he said.

Although the team loses another great athlete, Phemisttr fe
they’ll be better off without Gilbert.

“We had suspected Sarah from the beginning,” said Phemist
“She was too competitive. If she won five events, she wanted s
And it was always beating her teammates that gave her the ma
satisfaction. Besides, she’s from Oregon!”

Schaeffer is reportedly recovering well and Phemister Leliex
she will be ready for Nationals next month. .

“What Sarah forgot is that Josephine is faster on one leg th
most of the world is on two,” he said.

Schaeffer was unavailable for comment on Gilbert’s arrest,
her agent issued a statement saying Schaeffer was relieved that t
group’s ring-leader had been arrested and the All-American sopt
more can focus on her rehabilitation and prepare for the Nationa

“Josephine is just glad the police are on top of the cage,” t
statement read. “She’s also relieved Gilbert has been implicat
Heck, she’s from Oregon!”

Schaeffer has already signed promotional contracts with Disn
Nike and Revlon, and has a music deal with Warner Brothers. l
first album will be “Duets with Barry White.”

Gilbert, meanwhile, remains in police custody. However, .
swears she will be proved innocent and believes she will be; fre
time to also compete at the Division III Nationals.

“All I want is to represent my school at Nationals,” said Gilb
“Just give me my rightful opportunity to compete and l’ll come b
with the gold. Damn you, Nancy! Damn you!"

On the football side
Florida State coach B bb
Bowden was heard saying
“Damn, and Charlie Wardjus
graduated. So much for back»
to—back titles.” ‘ ‘

Snyder was unavailable for

g comment, but one source quoted

him as saying, “Cool. bring ’em
on.”

The clock seemed to be moving
in slow motion as the score
changed more often than the
angle of the  It did not
seem possible that this kind of
scoring outburst could be hap-
pening to either team, let alone ,
the two—time defending ODAC

(6.

Champions.

Stackhouse said he feared
some players coming out for the
team after hearing of the move.

concerened about that Bryan
Snyder guy. I hear he’s pretty
strong," said the UNC freshman.

In any case, the General:
will have their long awaitec
chance at fame. Now that th
basketball and baseball tﬁam.
have improved competition
the Generals can respond t
their critics.

This has been a Choose
Your-Own Adventure epi
sodeL

If you would like to Urea
ruleswhen recruiting and sig
Kidd to a million-dollar con
tract, turn to page nueve.

If you would like to de
Cline the ACC in favor of th
Southeastern conference jus
because it has the cor
“south” in it turn to page at

If you don’t know, turn t<
page 66.

Good luck, adventurer
And remember: this is th
kindler, gentler Phi.

Happy sailirzg/ .

This remains unverified, how-
ever.

 

   

 

PAGINA 5

One day Rush... learn to love it

5

5
and puts undue pressure on both the outstanding methods used by sorori- will also provide hors d’oeuvres and decision. lthink it is the best thing that abig happy family!” concluded Smith.
By YABEEZ SEDGHUKLM-~ rushees and fraternity members. A ties in holding Rush and have decided root beer ﬂoats just in case anyone is has ever happened to the university and ‘‘I am proud to be a part of this
Phi Bocce Spectator and Falcon Trainer week is too long a period of time for to adopt their ways,” continued Smith. remotely thirsty,” Smith said. its fraternity system,” said Dean of historic moment. I believe this is, by
v _ freshmen tomake uptheirminds. They “The University Center and Evans “Anotheroverduedecision hasbeen Students for Geek Affairs Buddy far, the greatest accomplishment that
lnterfraternity Council President deserve more and less is more! Such an Dining Hall shall be converted into made. This concems our alcohol policy. Atkins. has taken place, since my reign as Presi— _
Curt Smith officially announced a one- important decision can best be handled enough rooms to house the 16 fraterni— Alcohol is a terrible thing, and it shall “My fraternity completely approves dent of the university,” said University 0
day summer Rush for the upcoming in the shortest period of time,” said ties. These rooms shallbedecorated in be tolerated no longer. Any fraternity the IFC’s new moral mandate. [have Head Honcho John D. Wilson.
year at the termination of a marathon Smith. a theme of the fratemity’s own choos- found in possession of alcohol at any talked to other Presidents and they have “It would have never taken place
seven-hour IFC meeting. “Secondly, Iwouldliketoannounce ing, for example, Elvis visits Hawaii. period shall be ﬁned and suspended indicated to me their unconditional without Smith’s capable leadership. I
“The council has unanimously de- changes to the Rush format. The coun- The rushees will be divided into differ- from campus for a period of two years. support,” said KA President Alan encourage the Presidential Search Com-
cided to hold a one day Rush in the cil wanted me to express their deeply ent groups andwill haveapproximately Pledgesshallneverbe hazed again, uh, McKnight. mittee to strongly consider Mr. Smith
summer for incoming students,” said felt sorrow and most eager apologies 25 minutes in each room and about a 5 not that they ever were. This includes “To celebratethis greatvictory, and for the position of President at Wash-
Smith. for the way Rush has been conducted minute break session in between,” he all fraternities; that means Kappa Al- to promote interfraternity bonding, we ington and Lee. I would feel so much 6
“The decision was based on several these past few years. We now realize said. pha and Sigma Alpha Epsilon!” added shall host a three-day townie duck hunt better leaving this university knowing
important factors. First of all, the coun- the error of our ways and have decided “Inside the fraternities will sing, Smith. the week before Rush. What the heck, that it would be in competent and effi-
cil felt that the current system is unfair to make amends. We have seen the clap, and dance for the rushees. They “I am in full support of the IFC’s sororities are welcome too! We are all cient hands.”
it
v I

Some tamer selections from The Ring-tum Phi 1993-94 Quote Board...

"Women shave. Tam Hespas will like you better. Pally want a
« cracker.7"—Fran ‘

"give seen Hell‘, -Qickard, acter seeing a 5OV'O1';..ty Qusk 

 

I

"There's something so sexy about a woman with a knife."—Tom to Sarah. who was wielding an X-acto
‘Tm going to stay home Friday night and shine my tools.”—Paducah Joe .
Apartment for Rent Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination. Summer Camp Staff Needed, Varner & Pole ‘

'1ded. ' _ - T‘lCDC, . ' f ‘hd
4Bi§_{i/121“/fii'f,:t£’;i,V_;,”,a(flf“fi§,‘:3,‘nfl8,°,f;iS§E§  Pra;?tif.Bath' 1.0 mO.mh lease’ Smgles °“1Y- chariougigiiie, via: Juari:P18-Sept. _ SpeC1gaiiiTiiﬁtitirén&USiii1d§iS 6
. K ii , C0 463 5452 It in walking distance from campus. 2, Monday~Friday. Room and 19 S. Randolph St.
Inqulre at e y S rner -   Board plus salary. Call Pat Charles  $0113 VA ft63"2742 i
J at (804) 293-2529 for more info. 9-e'wvL0caa0n'

 

Domestic Work Wanted   N '

 LOW Student Rates Palm E Tarot Card Headings E, Sabrina artments fo 1, Rent
2 Bedrooms

Tells the Past Present, and Futin‘e;

I For More Informatlon Gives advice on all matters of life.

Please Call

 
        

  

 

, Come see the psychic today i.
  . - . .L01'T3::I61Z1‘;LE)C7723nd31' _ 1515, main .5t_   
:5: re"-.2‘; " ’ - -; ;.-.;.3.3 :..-.'.:.*< ‘ , . —  .,t r."   T ., " .‘ ' V  -‘ I «   ~~".:-.=in~-.v{sad‘ _‘H‘»:.t).ltr.i 5
_2,5.3 r -u,. 1;, _t  . .. i-. . . _ . _. I.‘   :“" Y’ ‘ " ‘  ’ I’ I . lt‘t.vW:'.-t-.;»'‘  «.. »-.. . .. _. ‘ f :. . ',, .,
if I ’' ‘References Available ' ’ I ‘: ‘,‘,,-347,7 .    J
o
‘ll’l.liSu./S()l'.\'l)Rl£'|‘lRl-1.\ll-LN"l\ \'l£S'l‘l .\"(;
C
 ': :'.':' " 3 '  .337." ‘
nu mm Ill] W‘. 1 " '”‘" M ’
:::: ::::'.'. ., ',, I t ,‘ I t
__ _ , __. It”: m H _, 3 \ o
."“"" can
""' ’  lg:
".‘,'.§jv3, neg; state I ' §§::  . y , 
ll it one . R It“. 
.  -_ -_..——-— 0
_  u i in. '"”".T
_ l I "
 ~ ml
llllllt litéttlirte lllttsliiiiglttii lmi\'orsily's Illlll Summer Sessions 5 “
Advance Your Career. Advance to Washington This Summer.
    pend this summer learning in the W0rld’e meet Maximize Your Career Potential with Special
m Sstimulating city. The 1994 Summer Sessions at The Summer Programs .
George Washington University offer over 500 . Prevention 0fTeI_mriSm , CW Madrid Centre

PEOPLE ARE PUTTING

courses covering 60 different areas of study. public Relations

Historical Archaeology °

' . 0 ‘ o in the Media ° Total ualit'Management
TOO MANY   E'i°Y the Resuﬁes °l the Nmionls (‘FM 0  Event Management in Higgler Eilucation
Located just four blocks from the White House and . Tiopical Marine Biology 0 Information Systems
i adjacent to the World Bank, CW’s campus is within o publication Institute 0 Legal Assistant
"e'".Y yea’: 310‘ 0f Pe°Ple make a m°“°.Y .Y°“ d°"'t Send t° Wa5h'“3t°“ walking distance of the U.S. State Department, the - International Education: ° Latin America: Cultural O

and Business Environment
And Many More.’

huge mistake on their taxes.They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they

‘”°'"k5 even harder for you‘ Down the Smithsonian, and many other prestigious institutions. Indonesia and Malaysia
road, that can make a dramatic difference '

in your quality of1iFe- Meet the Movers and the Shakers

rs _ i Choose from a Variety ol,0ptions
5. could be saving for retirement. What 6155 makes SRAS 5° 5PeC‘al? You’ll not only learn from The George Washington at The Gem e washin ‘on Universit
we -- A {ll ‘ h'—f tit "°“'hf1b'lll t 9 9 V
. .3 Fortunately, thats a mistake you can range 0 a ocation c oices rom e Universitys distmguis ed acu ty, ut W1 a so mee Two main 6_week SeSSiOnS_ May 11 _ June 22 and
=§ easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. guaranteed security of TIAA to the government and corporate leaders, cabinet members, June 27 _ August 8. Pius Sessions rangin" from One_ .
E SRAs not only ease your current tax- diversiﬁed investment accounts of heads of government agencies, Capitol Hill staffers, . _ . D
_ , , . . d . . . . week ﬁeld sessions to 13 week seminars.

§ bite, they offer a remarkably easy way CREF 5 variable annuity—all backe assoclatton dtrectorg, and corporate executives, who are .

'5 to build retirement income—especially by the nation's number one retirement often seminar leaders, guest lecturers, and part-time For More Information, The

§ for the "extras" that your regular pension SyStem- faculty. Opportunities for internships in prominent D.C.   1' B

E and Social Security beneﬁts may not Why write off the chance for a more organizations are also avaj13_b1e_ or mail or fax the  n
 cover.'Because your contributions are rewarding retirement? Call today and coupon below.    Q
Q made in before-tax dollars, you pay less learn more about how Tl/\A‘CREF K __________________________________________________________________ _f’_‘_5_"_'_“_°_’_"_“ﬁ _°_° _____ __

- , ' ' A h l ' _ — H. . .

'§ taxes now And since all earnings on SR s can e p you enjoy many  hmue ls m washlngion ""5 Summer! Name DOB.

E your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the happy returns. Please rush me the fonowin infomaﬁow C t Add

3 - urren ress
. E Beneﬁt nmvﬁvm tax deferral. Call our SRA hotlinel 800-842-2733, ext. 8016. Q 1994 Summer Sessions Bu11etinswiii, cogrsed City State Zip
— descriptions special programs, tu y A ma

,3 A A ’ . . . - Phone ( l

is _ Ensuring the future programs, schedules, and l‘e°lSlI'al.l0l’1 information. Rem“ mnpleted km '0: Q
5% for thosg who shape it?‘ 0 CW 5 Yeapround Undergraduate programs The George Washington University, 1994- Summer Sessions

§ 0 CW3 Ye31”'T0“nd Graduate Programs 2121 Eye Street, NW, Washington, DC 20052 _,

3 CREF czrnfirulnrurrdiv‘/riliuled /ry TI/l/l-CREF lndtvizlua/am} In.m'!uI[anaIS:rvi':e.r. Fur mart mmpkirinfurmatiun, irirlmiiny rbaryu and z.rpeIm.r, D 1994 Summer Sessions Study Abroad Programs FAX (2()2)994-9]33. 

\ call I 800-842-2735, ext. ¢l’0I6farupra.rpmu.;. Rtadlbeprarpectur carefully brfnr: you IIIVIJI or rem) numey. / in I ‘ _ _ i i _ _ i _ , irii
\ 1 —--L-j—— the (merge Washington University is an equal u|>|Ku'lUuI|_V |'|«~lI|U||0u- 5

T (I? I

£4/"—'

 

