   
  

Clip: ‘ﬂing-

VOLUME 93, N0. 28

EC spends $1400 on dinner

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

‘Washington and Lee’s Executive Commit-
tee recently treated itself, the incoming EC
members, and the White Book Review Com-
mittee to a $1400 dinner paid for with student
body funds.

_ Steve Hintze of the Willson-Walker House

 

 

Tunnels explored;
secrets revealed

’74 Lacrosse team-
bcsi of the best

8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

said the EC came with a party of approximately
30 April 28 and had dinner, wine and cocktails
for a total check of $1,390 after a 17 percent
gratuity.

“We appreciate their business,” Hintze said.
“You won’t hear anything negative from me.”

Jimmy Kull, ED treasurer, said the money
came from the Honor Reserve fund, which is
accrued from Student Activities fees.

“We took the money from the Honor Re-

serve account because of all the work the White
Book Review Committee did,” Kull said. “They
definitely deserved a dinner.”

“We put in hundreds of hours a year for the
school, and we deserve at least one dinner.”

Kevin Webb, incoming EC president, said
the EC has a custom of taking its members to
dinner once a year.

tum {ﬂirt

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

out of.” .

Kull said he did not know if the dinner was
a tradition, but it has been done in the past.

According to the Student Body Constitu-
tion, the activities fee “shall entitle the payer to
yearly subscriptions to the Ring-tum Phi (sic),
and The Calyx; to admission to all Glee Club
concerts, and all debating meets; and to all
other functions, publications, and activities as

MAY 13, 1994

The only constitutional discretionary allow-
ance which might allow the EC president to 1
justify any non-budgeted expense is Item Four ;
of Article Three, which reads, “[The president] 2
shall have power, subject to the approval of the §
Executive Committee, to do anything neces- 1
sary to promote the best interests of the Student ;
Body.” ‘

“We’ve done it every year I’ve been here,”
Webb said. “I don’t know which fund it comes

4

Kinky Reggae...

 

Publicity Photo

The Wailers are set to take center stage at the Washington and Lee Pavilion tonight, May 13,
following the performance of Black. Creek Band at 8:30 p.m. The Wailers, which consists of Earl
“Wia” Lindo, Al Anderson, Aston “FamiIyman" Barrett, Junior Marvin, Martin Battista, Irvin
“Carrot” Jarrett and Michael “Boo” Richards, originated with 1960s greats Bob Marley and the
Qilailers. The Wailers have released two albums on their own, I.D. in 1989 and their latest release.
Majestic Warriors. The free concert is sponsored by the Student Activities Board.

Man offers oral sex over phone;
harasses W&L library patrons

 

0 By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Associate Editor

When a freshman male picked
up the pay phone on the first
ﬂoorof the Leyburn Library Sun-
da night, he did not expect the
v0 ce at the end of the line to

  
  
 
 

offer oral sex.

Thecallerasked the freshman
to meet him in the fourth—ﬂoor
bathroom of the library.

The freshman then called
Washington and Lee Security and
went to the bathroom along with
a second freshman. The two
looked under the stall doors and

saw the feet of a man standing
up. The two freshmen left the
bathroom and waited nearby
outside.

A man they described as ap-
proximately 37-40 years old soon
exited the bathroom.

The freshmen watched the
man as he left.

File Photo
Washington and Lee Leyburn Library has been plagued recently with tele-

phone calls by a man who offered oral sex to male W&L students.

3

    

“He looked kind of sketchy,
and he walked fast away from
us,” the freshman who picked up
the phone said.

The two followed the man to
the third floor where he left out
of a side exit.

In the meantime security had
arrived on the first floor. The.
freshmen returned there, and then
the phone rang again. The fresh-
men picked up the phone and it
was the same caller. The fresh-
men talked to him and kept him
on the line while security noti-
fied the Lexington police, who

' traced the call.

The freshman was unable to
identify any suspects in a police

, lineup, according to Lexington

Police Chief Bruce Beard. The
freshman did describe the man in
the bathroom as being about 6
feet, 3 inches, with greying hair.

Police do not think the caller

‘ is the same person who has ex-

posed himself at least four times
on the Washington and Lee
campus, as well as at least once
in town.

- “We feel like we're looking at
two people,” Beard said.

W&L Director of Security
Mike Young said that his team
would step up patrols of the li-
brary, but that no security ofﬁcer
would be assigned to the library
itself.

The investigation continues.
If you have any information re-

' garding this incident or any other

similar to it, please notify the
Lexington police at 463-2112.

Graham-Lee-Wash. society
debates U.S. News ranking

By MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
Phi Staff Writer

Should Washington and Lee
strive to be one of the top 25
Liberal Arts colleges in the
United States?

The Graham-Lee-Washing-
ton Literary Society attempted to
answer this question when it
sponsored its Third Annual
Spring Dinner Debate on
Wednesday, May 11 in Evans
Dining Hall.

Arguing the affirmative side
were Associate Professor of Eco-
nomics Arthur Goldsmith and
junior English major Ashlie
Kauffman. Professor of History
Lamar Cecil and Executive Com-
mittee vice-presidentlimmy Kull
argued the negative side. The
debate ended in a draw.

Goldsmith said if W&L sim-
ply fulﬁlled its mission statement,
there would be no problem at-
taining the top 25 position.

“The challenge W&L faces is
an internal challenge,” Gold-
smith said. “The challenge is to
satisfy our own unique mission
statement.”

Goldsmith said there was a
desperate need for a student cen-
ter and an international center
where faculty and students from
different cultures could meet. He
said a special burden should be
placed on the administration to
fulﬁll the mission statement. He
said there should be more topic-
based courses or seminars in-
stead of discipline courses spe-

cific to the department’s major.

the Executive Committee may announce.”

Goldsmith said the most
prominent yet unspoken prob-
lem on campus is the alcohol
abuse rampant among students.
He said he blames the adminis-
tration for turning a blind eye to
the problem.

Kauffman said the 60/40 ad-
mission policy is discriminatory
and should be abolished. Noting
that female alumni generally give
more money to the institution,
she said the policy is not needed,
and its abolishment will not be
threatening to the men’s athletic
program or to the fraternities.

Kull said the people who cal-
culate the rankings of the top 25
Liberal Arts colleges do not care
about" the- "unique-‘traditions of
Washington and Lee and neither
do the students.

“We used to appreciate char-
acter, honor, and tradition,”
said Kull.

He said the two main reasons
the W&L has held steadfastly to
its traditions is because of its
Southern heritage and the fact
that it works. He said SAT scores
are overemphasized, and charac-
ter is de-emphasized.

“Character should be the mea-
suring stick of success,” said Kull.

Cecil said the U.S. News and
World Report should get out of
Washington Hall and return it-
self to the local barbershop where
it belongs. Cecil said W&L
should recognize and be proud of
its uniqueness.

“We have to come to grips
that we are a Southern institu-
tion,” said Cecil.

“We need to understand that

Bob Tompkins, EC president, could not be 
reached for comment. ‘

I
-4

we are different.”

Cecil said he is not against
change, however.

“We recognize that old bottles f
need new wine,” he said. “What ~
we do not need is pretension.” 

Goldsmith said the university j
needs more diversity in order to =
make W&L the best possible
university it can be. V

“We need to be a growing,;
evolving, diverse community,”:
he said. ;

Sophomore Nick Waddy, who ;
attended the debate, said he‘
agreed with the negative side.

“I think ultimately it’s not
SAT scores or admissions statis-
tics that induce students to come
to W&L,” said Waddy. “It’s in-
tangibles like community, tradi-
tion, and history.”

Sophomore John Branam said
he thought both sides had good
points, but the affirmative side
did a better job of presenting
their arguments more clearly.

“I think the negative side re-
lied too heavily on vague ideas
such as character and tradition,”
he said.

Branam said the affirmative
brought up important ideas like
the call for a student center, more
seminars, and a international cen-.
ter. He said the key to the affir-
mative side’s argument was the
idea that Washington and Lee
should strive to be the best leam-
ing institution as possible.

‘‘I think in general it’s a poor
excuse to say we should not be in
the top 25 percent,” he said, “be-
cause it allows us to settle for
mediocrity.”

Eating Disorders  

The
problem .

hits
home at ,
W&L, P ‘

too.

A At a school such as

the top few of .“Best
Looking Students”

V by the Princeton Review,

 

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff, Writer

Washington and Lee ’
University, ranked in y

a high premium is placed upon appearance
Many women feel that the heavy emphasis on fratemi
functions places an undue amount of pressure on W&L women to “look good.” Some even give in _
to the pressure and develop poor nutritional habits, even eating disorders. - ’ * « '  ‘
Anorexia nervosa affects many college women; 1992 statistics from the National Association ‘
of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders, 8 m
of anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa. ,
Jane (not her real name),sa W&L undergraduate, shared her story. , .
Jane’s family situation is that of the typical anorexic’s. Her family, which is an upper-class one,
was not very close. While belonging to an upper-class family is .
not an absolute characteristicof anorexics, it is a common one. -

r

it See EATING, page 9

, especially of women.

ties and being invited to their formal

illion Americans are afflicted with symptoms

0

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

U.S. to send troops to Haiti
despite nation’s military

The United States will send at least 600 troops to Haiti,
regardless of whether or not Haiti’s military leaders leave
power. The Govemor’s Island agreement, signed last year in
New York, calls for the return of ousted President Jean-
Bertrand Aristide. Officials say the Americans prefer that the
Haitian leaders leave first, but troops will go in either way to
train a new police force and reconstruct the army.

Hazelwood testifies Exxon
knew of his drinking problem

Former skipper Joseph Hazelwood testified Tuesday that
Exxon Corp. knew of his drinking problem and did nothing.
Hazelwood testified in a civil lawsuit brought against him
and Exxon Corp. for the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill, the
worst in U.S. history. Some 10,000 fishermen, property
owners and Alaskan natives are seeking $1.5 billion in
compensatory damages and ten times as much in punitive
damages. Hazelwood, who is appealing his conviction of
negligently discharging oil, said Exxon knew he underwent
treatment for alcohol abuse, yet did not monitor him on the
sea. -

Gaza autonomy given to
Palestinians by Israelis

Palestinian officers took control Wednesday of the Gaza,
the first area granted to them under the PLO - Israel autonomy
accord. Gaza youth stoned Israeli soldiers as they waited to
evacuate the base. If all goes according to schedule, Israeli
soldiers will be out of the autonomous areas of Gaza and the
West Bank of Jericho by Wednesday.

UN officials try to end Rwanda
fighting as rebels advance

Rebels are closer than ever to taking the Rwandan capital
of Kigali. UN officials ﬂew to Kigali Wednesday morning
to meet with government and rebel leaders to try and end the
ethnic fighting between the majority Hutus and the minority

T“‘SiS- BC‘W°°‘,1 1.99090 a“,€*,,200,:0Q9 P?9P1P‘ i‘.§.V"r . 12”“  . .
killed by the past month of violence in Rwanda, most of them ’

civilians

Mandela appoints officials for
SouthAfrica’s new government

Nelson Mandela appointed officials Wednesday to the
Cabinet of South Africa’s first post-apartheid government.
Mandela was sworn in as president Tuesday. Mandela
appointed his chief black political rival and his estranged
wife Winnie Mandela, to the Cabinet.

Goode cites Robb’s personal
scandal to boost campaign

State Sen. Virgil H. Goode, Jr. warned Democratic leaders
against nominating US. Sen Charles S. Robb for senator,
saying his candidacy could hurt their bids for re—election in
1995. Goode cited Robb’s personal scandals of attending
parties where drug use occurred and for behavior “not appro-
priate for a married man.” Goode said the Democrats need
candidates who can stand up to Oliver North in November,
and not be phased by negative publicity.

North may have jeopardized
Waite’s safety after his kidnap

The Wall Street] ournal reported that former White House
aide Oliver North leaked secret information to Iran that may
have jeopardized the safety of Terry Waite. North practically
identified Waite as an agent to Iran at the height of the arms-
for-hostages talks in 1986. Waite was later taken hostage and
held for four years by a terrorist group in Iran. North’s
comments came from a document declassified by the CIA
and obtained by the Journal

3 VMI cadets leave, 7 investi-
gated after cheating exposed

Three VMI cadets have resigned after an investigation
began into allegations of cheating at the school. At least
seven students are being investigated by the board of inquiry.
The investigation focuses on irregularities on tests taken this
spring in the Department of Economics and Business. Pro-
fessors in the department reported these irregularities last
month. The cadet Honor Court, which normally handles
matters of cheating, decided the charges were too serious for
it to handle. The investigation group was appointed to take
the place of the Honor Court.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily
Baker.

0
The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

0

Helping hands

   

Photo courtesy of Fncie Cohen

woi

Maria Harden, Julie Ann Olejniczak, Kim Freeman, Heather Lipke, and Francie Cohen, all members of the W&L chapter
of Habitat for Humanity, take a break from painting a house for the Lexington Safe and Sound program. The program
makes otherwise condemned local houses liveable. Habitat is holding a fundraiser this weekend to go towards a goal of
$20,000 for the construction of a new house. According to Habitat co-founder Francie Cohen, if the group raises $10,000,
an anonymous donor will match that amount. A raffle is being held this weekend, with a grand prize of a week for two
at the Alumni College. Tickets are $10, and are on sale next to Newcomb today from 10-6 p.m. and Saturday from 10-5 p.mb
All proceeds beneﬁt Habitat for Humanity.

Gay-Lesbian Legal Issue group,
organized in W&L law school

By MAC JENNINGS

Phi Contributing Writer
On April 18, a group of students at
the Washington and Lee law School
announced the formation of the Com-
mittee on Gay and Lesbian Legal
Issues.

After receiving funding from the
Student Bar Association earlier this year,
the group is currently organizing for
next year.

Upcoming events are to include lec-
tures from guest speakers and debates
between speakers or members of the
law faculty. Also, the committee plans
to sponsor informal discussions and
media presentations.

Thus far, a preliminary meeting has
been held and a documentary ﬁlm
shown. .

The purpose of the committee is to
establish a forum at Washington and
Lee for education and discussion about
gay and lesbian legal issues.

In addition, the committee seeks to
increase awareness of gay and lesbian
legal issues throughout the community
and to foster an atmosphere of accep-
tance and appreciation of gay men and
lesbians based on mutual respect and
dignity.

According to second-year law stu-
dents Paula Efﬂe and Steve Powell,
who together founded the group, there
are currently thirteen law students, ﬁve
members of the law faculty and one

. ‘WELCOAME
W & L
.--XLU MN-l

Photo by Betsy een, Te R

A banner day...

SPRING
1 REU.\ilONS.

..................~..

..’«’

The Washington and Lee Alumni Office had its welcom-
ing sign out early this week to help usher hundreds of
W&L alumni into town this weekend. The celebration is
in honor of the law and undergraduate classes of ’44, ’49,
’54, ’59, '64, ’69, '74, ’79, ’84 and '89. See the calendar, page
9, for a detailed list of alumni activities.

staff member sitting on the committee.

Membership is available to all stu-
dents, faculty and staff of the W&L law
school. Involvement in the group isnot
indicative of sexual orientation, ac-
cording to Efﬂe.

Efﬂe predicts that, in the future, gay
and lesbian legal issues will stretch
into every comer of the legal world,
from criminal rights to employee ben-
eﬁts to discrimination laws.

Unfortunately, according to Efﬂe,
these issue are not covered thoroughly
in the curriculum at Washington and
Lee Law.

Therefore, the committee hopes to
generate more interest in gay and les-
bian legal issues and to acknowledge
the importance of these issues.

When asked about the reaction.of
the law school community to the for-

mation of the committee, Powell noted: j
~ that the response has--been generally‘-

positive.

“There is a good deal of diversity
among the student organizations at ‘)8
law school,” he said.

“In general, there is a ‘live and let
live’ atmosphere.”

' Efﬂe agreed.

“The reaction has been good, al-

though there is a lack of knowledge
about the issues involved.”

Any member of the Washingfon
and Lee law school community who is
interested in joining the committee
should contact Paula Efﬂe for further
information.

Merhige to speak 
at law graduation

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Honorable Robert R. Merhige,
Jr., Senior Judge for the U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia, will
deliver the commencement address for
the law school on Sunday, May 22.

The commencement will begin at
2:30 p.m. in front of the Lee House.
The Warner Center is the rain site.

The university expects to award juris
doctor degrees to 113 third-year stu-
dents in the 139th graduating law class.

Judge Merhige was appointed for
life by President Lyndon B. Johnson to
term beginning August 30, 1967. '

He graduated from High Point Col-

lege, the University of Richmond
(LL.B., 1942) and the University'of
Virginia (LL.M. in Judicial Process in
1982)

He was awarded honorary degrees
from the University of Richmond in
1976 and from W&L in 1990.

During his twenty years on the
bench, Merhige heard cases involvlﬂg
such sensitive issues as school integra-
tion, industrial pollution, and the regu-
lation of sexual behavior.

He has been honored by the Ameri-
can Judicature Association, Anti-Defa-
mation League of B’nai B’rith, the
Virginia Trial Lawyers’ Associatidi,
the state and national bar associations,
and numerous other professional and
civic organizations.

Coulling speaks of alums .

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee alumus Sidney
M.B. Coulling chronicled the
University’s long history of producing
graduates who go on to bigger and
better things.

Coulling, a 1948 graduate, ofﬁcially
began the alumni weekend festivities
Thursday night in Lee Chapel with his
speech “ODK, Leadership, and the
W&L Tradition.”

The tradition Coulling spoke of be-
gan with the ﬁrst graduating class of
Liberty Hall. With that group of men,
the University began its penchant for
graduating students who become
prominent leaders in their career fields.

W&L has graduated 31 governors
of states, 2 state senators, and 63 mem-
bers of the House of Representatives.

Also among its alumni are four Su-
preme Court justices, and numerous
recognizable names in the areas of jour-

nalism, art, literature, and the sciences.

In these areas, Coulling said, “not a
week passes without the spoken or
written word of a W&L graduate.”

Coulling credited the adoption of
the Honor System with helping prm
duce such distinguished alumni.

“No single act in the history of the
University has continued so signifi-
cantly to determine the quality of its
leadership,” said Coulling.

In addition to taking pride in the
history of the University ’s alumni, sag
Coulling, “we may look also with con-
ﬁdence to the future.” He predicted a
continued tradition of excellence with
future graduates, including the induct-L
ees of Omicron Delta Kappa who were
formally initiated later that evening.

Coulling began his careerwith W&L,
faculty in 1956. He served as chairman
of the English department from 1978
until 1986. Coulling has received sev-
eral awards honoring his achievements
and service to the University. He re-
tired from teaching in 1991.

 

   

I h3Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

 

 

PAGE 3

 

  
  
  
 
 

. By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

the most of the electrical cables are not in tunnels.

Students enter the tunnels with at least some regularity
because certain areas have empty bottles and cans lying
around. In addition , the tunnels also have some graffiti left
by those who visited. According to several students who

 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

~ ve
I unnels.

to uildings on campus. The act of going thro
's referred to as “tunneling.”

aid that tunnels have hot water and steam

Uncle Tu

   
 

When I was in Night Owl last week,
talking to Wayne about which recent
release I should review, this Uncle
Tupelo CD caught my eye.

I knew I had heard of the band
beftle when it struck me that when I
was home over break visiting my best
friend who attends Kansas State Uni-
versity, he was all psyched to see Uncle
Tupelo later that week. From his reac-
tion and the reactions of his friends
when they heard Uncle Tupelo was
coning to Manhattan, I would say
Uncle Tupelo is the Midwest equiva-
lent to The Dave Matthews Band.

As a westemer, I wanted to try to
expand the.musical experience of all
you easterners who haven’t been West
of the Mississippi.

Ute St. Louis-based band’s 1993
release, Anodyne, has a western flair
applied to an Allgood/ Soulhat sound.
What I mean by western is there is a
steel guitar in almost every song, and
an occasional ﬁddle (not violin, it’s in
the liner notes as “ﬁddle”). This com-
bingtion is very appealing and I think
would be dynamite live.

Their music is by no means country
and isn’t completely western, but just
has a hint in every song. The title-cut,

P.C. U. ﬂops as an attempted Animal House for thenineties

“Tunneling” is described by some as something you
« ust do before you graduate, while others have no clue it
oes on, and those who do, advise you to stay out of the

Underneath Washington and Lee are a series of walk-
v hough tunnels carrying heating and cooling pipes to various

According to James Arthur, the Superintendent of Build-
'ngs and Grounds, “we have walk—through tunnels that go
ronﬁhe Heating Plant to the Law School and up to the main
ampus.” Arthur said people are discouraged from going
inside the tunnels, mainly because of safety reasons. He

some low voltage wires that coordinate the bell system, but

admitted to entering the tunnels, almost every fraternity and

sorority has their letters on the walls somewhere. According

posters.

to some rumors, the Cadaver Society also meets in the
tunnels before heading out to cover the campus with their

The conditions in the tunnels, are, as one student who did

of the time.”
ugh these tunnels

not wish to be identiﬁed said, “really hot and cramped most

Other students said the same and for the most part they

had to stoop as they traveled through them.

pipes, along with the roaches are.”

t 2

The tunnels beneath Washington and Lee are filled with evidence that people have been
hanging out in them. In addition to the chair that was cart
the numerous beer cans littering the ﬂoor. . .. .

pelo

lltc Midwest equivalent of The Dave /‘taltncws Band

“Anodyne,” (if
you’ve forgot-
ten), is a slow,
winding song
much like
“Freebird” or
“Stairway to
Heaven,” with-
out the famous
band.

A n o t h e r
slow western
track, “High
Water,” la-
ments “not being able to break even
with the game” and has a melancholy
melody that sounds like a complicated
campﬁre song. The next song, “No
Sense In Loving,” has a similarly
lamenting western sound and these
tracks dominate the sound of the end of
the album.

The beginning of the album sounds
more like main-stream rock or songs
that could be put on MTV. The ﬁrst
two songs, two of the best on the al-
bum, start the album off gradually.
“Slate,” the first song, has a slower feel
and a prominent lonely fiddle sound
which moves nicely into the next song,
“Acuff—Rose.” It picks up the pace,
saying, “Everything cuts against the
tide when you’re by my side.” “The
Long Cut” sounds like a western Pearl
Jam song that is actually good. The
song advises the listener to take the

One male senior said there is “proper [tunneling] attire,”

‘‘I wouldn’t recommend it to anyone above 6’4”,” said
one male freshman. '

As far as animal life is concerned, several people said
they didn’t even see any bugs, but others said “after a certain
part, the tunnels get smaller and more moist. That’s where

   

File Photo

    
 

ed down to the tunnels, note

' I uricte TUPELO -AANODYNE V

 

long cut because “we’ll get there even-
tually,” and get out of the rut they ’re in.

The next three songs, “Give Back
the Key to My Heart,” “Chickamauga”
and “New Madrid,” work well together
as good music to kick back to.
“Chickamauga” is my favorite song off
of the album with “New Madrid” run-
ning a close second; they both have a
strong beat and the titles themselves
are very mid-western. (New Madrid is
a town in Missouri besides being the
fault line running through the south-
west corner of Missouri; and
Cickamauga could be either). The best
part about “New Madrid,” is its promi-
nent use of the banjo.

All in all it’s a good album and I
would recommend it to anyone. If you
want a scale, I say it’s a seven out of 10
(I think I’d rate Remember Two Things
a seven and a half).

meaning you are “lightly
dressed because it’s pretty
hot.”

According to one
freshman female, the
most surprising things
were “we didn’t get
caught and there’s really
nothing down there.”

She estimated the
temperature to be close to
100 degrees. This ham-
pered her enjoyment of
tunneling.

Dean of Students
David Howison had no
idea that tunneling even
occurred. Associate Dean
of Students Buddy Atkins
said he “didn’t know
people did [tunneling].”

Mike Young, Director
of Washington and Lee
Security stressed the dan-
gers of tunneling.

“There are really hot
steam lines and if you put
your hand on one, or back
up into one, or hit you
head, you can get a seri-
ous burn,” said Young.

He also said, ‘‘It is
prohibited and you could
be arrested.

Anyone one we catch,
we will send before the
Student Conduct Commit-
tee.”

BothYoungandArthur
stressed that the tunnels
are dark and ﬁlled with
potential dangers like the
hot pipes and drop-offs
that could result in a seri-

ous injury, especially since students are unfamiliar with the

layout of the tunnels.

Arthur said Buildings and Grounds attempts to keep
people out of the tunnels by locking as many‘ gates and

entrances as possible.

However, some entrances can not be locked because they
might potentially trap workers in the tunnels, creating an

emergency situation.

Wen; zfe

Tunnels oﬂer adventure and danger

File Photo

Washington and Lee's Greek system is evident in tunnel artwork.
Said one freshman female, "Basically every fraternity on campus is
equally represented by the amount of grafitti in the tunnels." So-
rorities are represented too, although they have some catching up to
do to match the huge selection of fraternity "artwork."

He also said that B&G personnel have caught people in

the tunnels and witnessed them entering or exiting the them.

When that happens, they notify W&L Security. As far
as accidents, there haven’t been any recently, “but it is a

concern,” said Arthur. .

[Editor’s note: The Ring-tum Phi does not encourage
anyone to enter the tunnels due to the tremendous safety

risks and potential for criminal and SC C prosecution. ]

Holocaustdeniersrefuted

By MICHAEL Hrzwu-:rr
Phi Staff Writer

With the popularity of Schindler’s
List, there is a greater interest in the
Nazi Holocaust. Hitler’s horrifying
and systematic extermination of Jews
has been well documented.

Yet, in Deborah Lipstandt’s new
book, Denying the Holocaust: The
Growing/Assault on Truth and Memory,
there is a movement to deny the Holo-
caust ever happened. To some people,
the idea that anyone would deny an
historical fact seems ridiculous, but as
Lipstandt said, a fringe group of ex-
tremists are beginning to move into the
mainstream, calling for open debate
about the Holocaust on various college
campuses. She notes the disturbing
trend of Holocaust deniers to send ads
to college newspapers, urging them to
print them in the name of free speech.
Lipstandt offers a fascinating look into
the thought and methodology of the
Holocaust deniers.

Holocaust denial has its roots in the
attempt by revisionist American histo-
rians who were disturbed by American
involvement in World War II. They
argued that the Allies brutal behavior
toward the Germans far surpassed the
systematically cruel treatment of the
Jews. '

Lipstandt argues Holocaust deniers
used these arguments to support their
theories. At ﬁrst, deniers trivialized
the Holocaust by comparing it to the
actions of Stalin and other massacres
throughout history. When this failed,
the deniers reverted to denying the

\ Deborah Lipstadt
Destyingtite i”lGlC9€3:i.lS

l»‘.l'V

 

Holocaust as a whole. Central to their
theories is the argument that the gas
chambers were not used for extermina-
tion. Lipstandt meticulously challenges
this and other twisted theories about
the Holocaust. However, her refuta-
tion of the deniers’ assertions some-
times borders on tedium. Much more
interesting was her discussion of the
denier’s entry in to mainstream soci-
ety. The Institute of Historical Review
has been the primary headquarters of
deniers in America. They publish a
magazine, The Journal of Historical
Review, which is deceptively designed
as a scholarly publication. Lipstandt
argues this publication and organiza-
tion are so slick that they fool even the
brightest people. She tells the story of
a senior history major at Yale who

mistakenly sent his thesis to TheJ our-
nal of Historical Review, thinking it
was legitimate publication.

Furthermore, Lipstandt is shocked
by the incredible gullibility of college
students and administrators. The idea
that students may come away thinking
there is an “other side” is “the most
frightening aspect of this entire mat-
ter.”

Bradley Smith, an avid Holocaust
denier, has sent ads entitled ‘The Ho-
locaust Story: How Much is False?
The Case for Open Debate.” Some
college newspapers have printed them,
oftentimes in the name of First Amend-
ment rights.

Lipstandt rejects this argument be-
cause there can not be “open debate”
on an historical fact: the Holocaust
happened. The controversial notion of
“political correctness” has been used
as a weapon by the deniers, something
that makes Lipstandt pessimistic. She
makes a provocative argument against
the deniers being protected by the First
Amendment, especially their activities
on college campuses.

Ultimately, Lipstandt makes a pow-
erful argument about the danger these
deniers present to the truth of the Nazi
Holocaust. She presents a thorough
examination of these Holocaust de-
niers and shows how ridiculous their
arguments are. Some parts of the books,
especially her challenges to the de-
niers’ assertions, are dry. The book is
hard to wade through at some points.
However, the message of the book is an
important one. We must not let these
deniers continue to assault the histori-
cal fact of the Holocaust.

By KIRK SUsoNG

Phi Movie Reviewer

 

P. C. U. — mick

We all fondly remember Animal House’s
grand old Faber College, that gloriously stereo-
typical institution from a mythologized 1960’s
IvﬂLeague.

Wouldn’t it be great if some enterprising
film makers decided to update that story, and in
the same wry and overstated humor depict the
Ivy League in the nineties?

The makers of P. C. U. hoped to do exactly
that; unfortunately, their movie is more in the
trﬁlition of Up the River than Animal House.

Port Chester University is certainly the mod-
em Ivy League college. The special interest
groups have run amok and have destroyed any
sense of community (or fun) among the stu-
dents.

Most students are part of some special inter-

.0

est: “womynists,” gay—rights campaigners, black
activists, academic nerds, etc. One group of
students whatever isssue is most pressing in the
news for a week, and the next week moves on
to another of the world’s problems.

A young high-school senior (played by Tim
Lawrence) is visiting the campus for a week-
end, to decide if Port Chester is the school for
him. Hls host is Droz (Jeremy Piven), who
lives in an old frat house caled “The Pit” (frater-
nities were thrown off campus in the sixties).

In the'Pit reside the last of the true college
students, those reckless sex—drugs-rock n’ roll
types that make the college years so wonderful
(and largely blacked out).

Unfortunately, at Port Chester fun is basi-
cally no longer allowed, and the entire campus
hates the inhabitants of the Pit. These fun-
loving kids often disrupt campus rallies with
clever pranks; for example, they toss the
cafeteria’s meat supply at protesting vegetar-
tans.

As a result, the president of the university is
coming down on them hard, and unless they
raise seven thousand dollars they will be thrown

out of the beloved Pit. So, they decide to throw
a glorious all-campus party to raise the money,
save “The Pit” and incense the president; even
if they don’t raise the money they will go out in
a ball of Flaming Dr. Pepper’s.

Sadly, the movie falls on its face when it
comes to the characters. the are all ﬂat and
uninteresting. Sure, Bluto was a stereotype, but
John Belushi gave him some personality, a few
habits and traits (the shifty eyebrows) which
made him distinct. We don’t laugh with this
movie’s “big, dumb guy,” nor do we cry with
him. “Gutter” (Jon Favreau) is just big and
dumb, and nothing else. We just wonder why
we should care.

It is precisely this sort of apathy which all the
characters in the ﬁlm inspire. Maybe if the
characters won’t rescue the ﬁlm, the fast-paced
and innovative directing will. But, no, that
doesn’t happen either.

The directing is brisk, but the shot selection
is mundane and unmentionable. And you will
be very happy that the ﬁlm moves so quickly
because you can’t wait to leave the theater. (At
any rate, the directing goes so briskly because

there is so little ﬁlm to direct: it’s less than
ninety minutes long.)

And, surprise, surprise, there is no salvation
for the ﬁlm in the plot. At first the trouble of an
annoying administration breathing down the
nexts of the fun-lovers seems scarily familiar
(Fraternity Renaissance, anyone?)

But exactly what we expect to happen does
happen. The pre-frosh ﬁnds love and alcohol,
the crew get to keep the Pit and the Balkanized
campus reunites in a sort of youth-of-the-world-
unite brotherhood, which is so very touching.
Really.

Basically, the creators of this film had a
good idea, to resurrect Animal House in the
nineties.

Unfortunately, the plot is predicatable, the
characters are ﬂatter than fraternity beer and
the jokes normally adolescent. '

You might see the Mudhoney single from
the soundtrack on MTV and be inspired to go
see this film. Resist that temptation. If you
really want to catch the ﬁlm’s few funny lines
or David Spade’s humorous evil preppie char-
acter, do so on HBO, where it’s free.

The Rating Scale

ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ — Go buy this as soon as it comes
out on video. It is an instant classic. “You'll
laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe,just maybe, you’ll
learn something about yourself."

ﬁﬁﬁrﬁ — Go see this film now, while it's
still on the bigscreen. It’s worth a few Oscars and
the seven bucks you'll pay if you see it outside
Lexington. Overall, “Better than Cats!”

ﬁﬁﬁ — Okay, so there have been better
ﬁlms. Nevertheless, it is a good example of its
genre, and you should probably see it on video-
tape, especially if you are a fan of the actors or
director. Still, probably “Better than Cats!”

ikﬁ — It happens to be on HBO, and you’re
blowing off tomorrow’s reading. Although your
time would probably be better sewed on your
education, it's free and you're bored, so go ahead
and watch it.

15' —- Even if it's free and your best friend said
he never laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks.
Don'twaste yourtime, or at least don't waste it on

this. (There's always MTV.)

I
-_..,-,-,,.,,_..,,_,——-,-._-...--,,,_,_..-.r--- ._. -.._.«._--_ - .. .-...«.-.-....-..._-..-....—.-. - ------------- --- -- ---..-- - - --------.--- ..

'-‘-'~'»'~--*-‘A--'--~'<' ' - '-"-'-*"--- v- - -----v — - - -w-.-.. ..:.~-.--—................._................................_................_......................__................................._....... I

 

  
    
   
 
      

W The Rinﬂum Phi, May 13,199

0“  mark by Mark Parisi Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

    

PAGE 4

REMEMBERJHE LAST EMPLOYEE
T0 QUESTION My AUTHORITY FOUND
HlMSELF TRANSFERRED 72>
PRODUCT TESTING...

ACE
LAXATIVES

L.

  
 

Dave by David Miller

 L 1::

FEAR OF COMMITMENT
§TRIK‘E§ AGAIN ./

 
    
    
  
    
  
 
 

Fora HEAVEN97 6Ai<e, DAVE.’
WlLL You PLEA§E «sir DOWN.’ n"5
ONLY A HALF-Houﬁ ‘.>l—low/

 

  

in A I  lI‘\
 

.54 4 .. ---La". ..—‘

_ Among lfriends, a plugger sometimes
””‘”‘“"' plays his ball where he lies.

 

         
     
  
  

  
    
  
  
  

Colonnade Crossword ’ ‘
ACROSS 10 1 2 
9  '=~ V
4 Stand up to '- -"
5 Soul 1'

6 Flying prefix

.7 Like some
cheese

'8 Lukewarm

°l= lt~lDivlDul>_.LlT‘{ 

T
l

 

at

_ Ci ric or lac ic 16  O ,
§z3;’::;....' , NON i1:l”"Ull ‘$:BK<§l<CliJAEllR4lc:??t\:rClEéKPl;ll:I1t2\l£r

‘9 First murderer
20 Upshots

22 Kitchen item
24 Coquettish

25 A few

26 Ties

29 Favorite

31 On guard

35 One —— time
36 Long period
37 Halo

38 Film star of old
42 Places of

sacnﬁce

43 Slip up

44 Business VIP
45 Take care

46 Fruit drink @1994 run Medi ervices. inc

. o‘
BY A A U L‘ H’
. b
mi i- _ 5.1‘
n' \ ‘I
t-nut - i_ ‘ .
—: A l
:1 1 'I'
hung

N<:)f\O8‘.7 9B£'_L|2iM 199$ t¥3L¢)NllH~JM

   
  
  
  
     

  
 

YIKESNOW IM STARTINGYD
MUTATE I M‘? CELLS ARE
$PLlT‘l’lNC7 IN Two!

i'M eowa TO HAVE
HIM lN rHeRAP<.l

FOR YEARS ,’

        
  

47 Highwaymen A" “'9” 9”" Last week’s puzzle solved 1 9
James ‘ V
49 Blissful 8 Surrounded by » ‘V’
place 9 A medium
51 Disallow 10 Unmarried man

    

52 Concealment 11 Shakespearean

  
         
    
 
   
   
   
 

 
 
 
   

    

     
   
  
   
  
  
    
 
 

 

55 lvy League King a.
school 12 Opera solo
59 Mental concept 13 — Kong £  (i. 
60 Flame 21 — Angeles 1-1,...‘ L T __
62 Medley 23 Blue pigment R
63 Cultivate 26 Fernando or
64 Like an old Lorenzo Y _
woman 27 “— of Two , ‘ A
55 E*°"“"“"‘°” °’ °‘“‘*5" ‘I-I §é’8é?aW‘i‘d ﬁcivlé‘ vou MEAN \\\ YOU MAY HAVE BEEN
pain 28 Menu ROT R U \ iT'5 TORN? BORN WITHOUT ONE.
66 These can be 29 Edgar Allan — ATO CUFF’-' V
electric 30 Finished up
67 swarms 32 Clapton and
*68 Oracle " ' ~ -7 others‘- -
‘-2: ' v. -‘ -‘= ~.-"==.=w'r--.isiarr.~:w33:M&8hl&S2='5l1-3="n*rm‘»s.::¢t-ivusz   2»  ' ~‘..=;: er :— »-.-:.»~ —""-"€'.°lli
DOWN way . 46 Nobody in 53 Si r Adams
1 At a distance 34 Western lake particular 54 Cu ' le
2 Canary‘s place 36 Nav. oil. 47 Shake 55 Tiller
3 Chills 37 Berliner: abbr. 48 Di lom 56 '‘It‘s a sin to
4 Emulate Holmes 39 Some football 50 ‘liance tell —“
5 Hamburger. e.g. passes 51 Reveals 57 Mellow
6 individuals 40 Wear raduall 52 Buildin 58 Achiever
7 Edge 41 Wrathg y locatiog 61 Contend   g
‘j 

 
    
  
   
 
      
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
         
      

Varner & Pole

Specializing in Unfurnished
Furniture & Shades . 0
19 S. Randolph St

Lexington, VA 463-2742
New Location!

 . .,h
Lexington , IE

  

$ -
130 Any Show

‘ c F
E   k —- Now Showing—

  
  

RQ3l'(lUTCml' Thumbellna

   
     
  
  

    

SD?!’ giir? :4'3'&Fei34t§dg?n. El

2172 Sycamore Ave. Pcu Shop for :5

Buena Vista, Va. (703) 261-1886 Dai g=g~3g-gt-45R§tgd45PG13 .E

0 7D 1.  Pavvagallo -a

L h T {aft M ‘W: .a1‘1""’“e 3 Sat Darfgoo 3.9.5353. Ladies’ shoes Ig

unc a e- u on. — r1. a.m. - .m., .&Sun. 3: , : : pm. 1 y ’ I ,

Sat. & Sun. 12 — 3 p.m. P my .=.u.2°,5T°°..&.9 0'3...” your  hats; Clothing, and ..

' Dinner Take-Out Sun. - Thurs. 3 - 9:30 p.m., Day 7:00 spm. _Rated PG 1 A - -E
Fri. & Sat. 3 _  p_m. g at. 8: un. 7.00 p.m.  &    0‘

J ' Zh K J , P ' - "

am ong uatlg 0e —rf£)r1etor_ ‘ Q75 Begc6h1AvZ.,2B9uEna Vista J aizit g£a”2 E ii:  ) 

‘J? L.‘ I  0%

115 W. Nelson St. . _
Hours: 10 - 5:30 °
Mon. - Sat. °*°
23 N. Main St. - g
463-5988

      

Stoelnvl/all Square shagging Center I
. ‘$229522: End of School

New Movies -

Three Musketeers 81 A S I

Addams Family Values

E» 207 _ ,
r- New hlylusic for this Week 0 Off St0reW1d€ Wlth

Pretetggisc-ﬁr’-listﬁygrneuii eggiigants Student or Faculty 1. D. until

Sonic Youth - Experimental

T&2V.i’ﬂi'z‘ﬁ‘at;T°§a§°ﬁ€.I‘" . June 4. All Colleges Welcome.

Black Girl -’Trea.t U  t
Danny D &al:¢‘I1  81 Bass   
T ......... . TGIF Catalog Outlet  . 4 '
L   1  ‘ﬂﬁha A .9 - 1    
Open. Mon.-Thurs. 1()s:.:\-Iggopﬁria Fri & Sat. 10am.-ll p.m., . 17  Street . 
g "11 . . Jr‘ HOUFS2 M011. - Sat.  a£An:ocnossvo|.u31'SE:t
o

   

 
 
  

  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  

0
The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

RA? s?t~:Aks

. By JACK THORN

Special to the Phi

Four guys lounging in a dimly lit apartment. The breeze
from the slightly open window intensiﬁes the nostalgia.
Eric B and Rakim’sAin’t NoJ0kejust ﬁnished playing on
the Carousel, and the students start head-bobbing to KRS
ONE’s Boom Bap cd. Having guys from different parts of
the country brings on an interesting feud about the real
origins of rap.

Was it the Sugarhill Gang or Afrika Bambaata that really
instigated the rise of rap? It was agreed that Afrika deﬁ-
nitely deserves more props for his bombshell of a cut. After

him, many rappers dropped similar styles but none are as
remembered as Afrika. He alone with artists like Kool
Herc, Grandmaster Flash and Steady B gave the world a
music that still makes you want to jam. The music will
never be the same, but all true rap fans will agree that the old
school is untouchable. I mean, new rappers like Nas,
Shyheim, Snoop Doggy Dog

andOJeru Damaja are the

bomb. But they only have to

prove that they have skills.

Old school rappers had to

bring rap on the map. Now

I that it is here, it’s probably

‘agreed that it will be a while

befsre it falls off.

People who came on the
scene after the originals
started a trend that continues
3to be bested. Run-DMC was
on top for years, then L. L.
Cool J emerged as the new
ph om. Almost everyone
A loved “My Radio” and “Rock
the Bells.” Kool Moe Dee
challenged L.L.’s manhood.
Thus starting the serious rap
feuds. L.L. and K001 Dee,
L.L. and Ice T, as well as
‘UT 0 and Roxanne Shante
were a part of this rap style of
: dissing. For years, the dissing
2 rap rule: however, it wouldn’t
stay on top forever. Gangsta’
rap blew up with groups like
Ice T, Too Short, Above the
La? and NWA. NWA later
cos older America to cringe
in their rocking chairs and
steered millions of youth to
record’ stores. Their contro-
versial lyrics frightened the
FBI because they glamorized
thegives that African-Ameri-

Eliiiiil llilii. "

Hts PRU 1-H

DANCEMLE sou ND is A Music or HESSl\9ES

cans have been unfairly handed. Groups like Public Enemy
and Boogie Down Productions blatantly told white Ameri-
cans that if justice wasn’t distributed in'the black communi-
ties that they would not be able to contain all the anger. Their
predictions came to reality when blacks protested openly the
Rodney King incident. Ice Cube did likewise and plainly
said that blacks needed to be listened to, because there is
more going on than most Americans could possibly imag-
ine. More danceable music came out and is still played
today. But rap’s transition as a music of messages brings
fear and anger to radios and televisions. Not all rap dis-
cusses the injustices found in black communities, the lack of
money for education and the violence we constantly witness
in our hoods. Many rappers merely perform to raise
everyone’s spirits and get the ladies on the dance ﬂoor, to
shake what their mammas gave them. Rap has gone a long
way and continues to honor and give praise to its forefathers.
The praise is heard by dope samplings and revisions of
songs. We, four guys chillin (now listening to Dr. Dre’s The
Chronic CD), agree the way rap has pleased those who truly
love it is “all good.”

i ON THE
SHOULDERS

OF GIANTS

W&LlF E

 

PAGE 5

    

mat? S Happenin

 

9‘ ‘ “Angel at My Table” -Alumni Reunion Dance -Roger Day
4 Film Society Warner Center 9 p.m. Gaines Quad, 5p.m.
Q Troubadour 8 p.m. -The Wailers . cows in Trouble
E - Souther Comfort, w/ Black Creek Alleghany Cafe, Radford
Jubillee, Sazeracs Pavilion 8:30 p.m. -Bananas at Large
Q‘ Alumni Concert - Skunks Reggae Rumors , Lynchburg
Lee Chapel 8 p.m. Ward’s Rock Cafe, Roanoke '
-Alumni Luncheon °Blue Miracle . ‘
< Front Lawn, 12:30 p.m. Pi Kappa Phi fraternity Blzggzigzliy & the
- Lost in the Supermarket -Awareness Arts Ensemble ph' K P - -
K Al h fr t r '2: C TRAX "appa s‘f'““"""’
appa p a a e ni y oncert, .White Buffalo
-My Uncle’s Old Army - Southern Exposure Si ma Ch,-
E=‘ Buddies Harb’s Bistro . If “V
i Labd Ch'Al ' . - .°‘““"“. a‘:‘
m m a 1 pk“ fmternlty Exit 37 Sigma Phi Epsilon
Beta Theta  fraternity fraternity
: . High voltage -Midmght Movers .A1ma Madre
E Scooch’s, Roanoke Kglfpaksgmafatemiﬂ Sigma Alpha Epsilon
- ac ree -
C/J Phi Delta Theta fraternity fmtemlty
;,.. . “N - Grandeurs
§ wo,,‘.’Z,f‘»s"§.Yf;:°,$I%I',.~e Pgﬂﬁggmslm fraternity
O Troubadour, 8:30 p.m. - lg ea .
2 Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
2 -Applied Music Recital - Seniors’ Reception .A1ma Madre
ré Lenfest Center, 3 p.m. Lee House, 5:30 p.m. Concert, TRAX
le-
E - Seniors’ Reception 0 DJ John Rogers °Jenny Jennings
8 L‘ee House, 5:§0 p.m. Sigma Nu fraternity Alleghany Cafe, Radford
E - ‘The Marriage of -Radar Rose - The Wednesday Morning
Q Figaro” Ward’s Rock Cafe, Roanoke Party
in Open Rehearsal - WLUR Radio, 6:30-9 a.m.
g Lenfest Center, 8 p.m.
E33.*;*:.““*&  '“=°si=-W
ations g ny Club, Radford Fox, 8 p.m.
"3 Concert, TRAX - .
% ‘Flying Mice Iroquois Club, Roanoke
:3 Harb’s Bistro “What's Happening”
in , is compiled by Brian McClung
3*" .
3 -Vince Drumheller - Chris Saunders -Back in Black
2 Baja Bean Co., C-ville Alleghany Cafe, Radford Tibute to AC/DC
Q‘ 'Bustop -Agents of Good Roots Scooch’s, Roanoke
Ward’s Rock Cafe Iroquois Club, Roanoke

$102 million raised

from contributions by 13,827 alumni, parents, friends,
faculty, stafﬁ corporate, and foundation donors.

$25 million to go

to reachour goal of $127 million by July 1, 1995.

We need your support.

THE CAMPAIGN FOR
l/1/ashington and Lee

 

    

PAGE 6

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

EC digs its own grave

The Washington and Lee Executive Committee recently
appropriated almost $1400 for a worthy cause.

We know you are surprised. The EC? Actually giving money
to some needy organization this late in the game? After organi-
zations which traditionally received thousands of dollars from
the EC have had their budgets slashed?

Yes, yes and yes. Which lucky organization received the
money? You ask. Was it the needy and deserving Calyx? The
Student Bar Association, in the right place at the right time
because many EC members are graduating law students and
decided to throw some money at their good buddies in the law
school for one final party? Or maybe, dare we ask, T heRing-tum
Phi?

No, no, and no. The lucky recipient of those 1400 smackers
was, surprise, surprise, the Executive Committee itself.

You see, Bob Tompkins and the rest of the good ol’ boys at
the EC got together with the White Book Review Committee
and the newly elected EC members and had themselves a little
old-fashioned Southern get-together at the Willson-Walker
House.

You know, dinner, wine and cocktails for a party of 30.

We at the Phi do not want to cast any stones. We cannot tell
a lie; we are partial to throwing parties ourselves, and have been
known to spend our money foolishly on pretzels and alcohol.

The difference here is that it is our money. Out of our own
pockets. The EC, we must admit, is also spending money out of
our pockets.

Whoops, there is the catch. The EC is wining and dining on
money out of our own pockets? Those student activities fees,
which we are more than willing to dish out so that we can have
a yearbook and FD and Mock Convention and a raquetball club,
are not designed for the EC to support its social agenda.

We agree with the SBA: a simple catered dinner by W&L
catering, a little party at Spanky’s, or a few kegs at Bob’s place
would not have;,been out of line. We might have even tried to
wangle an invite.

But $1390 is simply ridiculous. It is a blatant waste of the
student body’s money (that’s right, Bob, it belongs to the
STUDENT BODY. You are only the humble caretaker of that
money) and an abhorrent slap in the faces of all those who had
budgets cut or denied last fall.

If the EC members had any class, they would offer to pay for
the meal themselves. It is the only decent apology.

Quote of the Week...

“All I’m going to be doing this weekend is gripping and
grinning.”
———Professor Brian Richardson, discussing
his duties as chairman of the Alumni-F aculty
Relations Committee. He went on to explain,
however, that he was referring to handshakes.

Ellie Ring-tttm lﬁlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Erin Leonard

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ethan Krupp

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Erin Gnidziejko

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬂce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

. OPINION

The Rin -tum Phi, May 13, 1994

     
 

Our spritual past defines our politics

“There are no angels in America, no
spiritual past, no racial past, there’s
only the political and the decoys and

people link spirituality to; but, in a
much broader sense of ideas. I think the
spiritual past/present can be captured

  
   
 

theploystoma- by the word/
neuver around idea of free-
the inescapable dom. lt’s that
battle of poli- idea that has
tics the shifting NOVA brought so
downwards many here
and outwards CLARKE, from colonial
of political times to the
power.” present and it

The preced- is almost syn-
ing is from part onymouswith
one of Angels the U.S. Free-

in/tmerica. For those of you who have
not heard of the play, it is a Pulitizer
winning drama about AIDS in America
by Tony Kushner. When I read the
play, the above stuck with me as ex-
pressing a lot about America.

It is true there is no racial past in
America. All of us are immigrants,
some of us more recent then others. I
am only a third generation America,
my great-grandparents immigrated here
prior to World War I.

The lack of a racial past tied to
America is evident in our searching for
familial links that join us to the Old
World. Except for the Native Ameri-
cans, the branches of the tree crossed
the Atlantic within the last five hun-
dred years.

However, I do believe we have a
spiritual past. Not in the sense of orga-
nized religion, which is what most

Foreign policy daunting, yet critical

World events unfold at a confusing pace ——- civil
warin Bosnia, genocide in Rwanda, political repres-

sion in Haiti, democracy in
South Africa — so it is no

dom is hardly recognized as spiritual
now, when we hear the word freedom,
it is most often joined with politics.

Freedom is at the heart of our politi-
cal struggles —— gun control (The free-
dom to bear arms vs. the freedom of
feeling safe from these guns); abortion
(the freedom of the woman to choose
vs. the freedom of the fetus to live); the
environment (the freedom to use the
land as we please vs. preserving the
land so that all people have the chance
to freely use and appreciate it); etc. All
these questions are passionately de-
bated with both sides claiming to rep-
resent the interests of freedom.

Here at Washington and Lee the
spiritual ideal of freedom is being used
in debate. For example, the smoking
policy. By banning smoking in most
areas, are we invading the freedom of
smokers or protecting the freedom to

wonder that questions about
the appropriate role for the
United States in world affairs
are at the top of our national
agenda.

Recent criticism of the
Clinton administration’s for-
eign policy only underscores
the importance Americans
place on a consistent, bold, and

intelligent approach to foreign policy on the part of
the President. So, at the risk of rehashing a much-
discussed but little-understood issue, let us ask again:
just what is the goal of American foreign policy?

What ideals animate it?

One popular answer to this question has always
been that America is the arsenal of democracy, as it
were. It is undeniably part of the American creed to
think of democracy, free elections, etc., as elements
of an objectively superior system of government, and
to want to share the blessings of this system with
anyone we can get our hands on. And often, of
course, U.S. policy is a fair reﬂection of this demo-
cratic philosophy: U.S. pressure helped to unseat
South Africa’s minority government, for example,
and as we speak American officials are contemplat-
ing an invasion of Haiti to restore that country’s
democratically-elected leader, Father Aristide, to

power.

But is this really a complete picture of U.S.
policy? We know, for instance, that our country has
supported numerous authoritarian regimes in the

  
   

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

think, ultimately im-
practical and even de-
structive. Democracy
versus elite control is
only one paradigm
through which intema-
tional affairs can be
viewed, and it is not by
any means the only
valid one.

During the Cold
War, it was often de-
cided that democracy
would have to take a
back seat to anti—com-
munism. That was a

post-war period: Pinochet in Chile, Thieu in South
Vietnam, Batista in Cuba, and more recently the

the single goal of elective government?

I want to suggest that they are not; seeing Ameri-
can policy exclusively through the crucible of our
love for democracy is touchingly idealistic, but, I

value-judgment, a judgment of which force —
authoritarianism or communism — presented a

LETTERS

breathe clean air for the non-smokers.
The recent announcement that an ac-
tivities director is being hired seemed
to raise some fears about infringement
on our freedom, will our social lives
now be planned?

What I really wanted to talk about in
regard to the spiritual at Washington
and Lee is honor. From its founding,
there has been an almost inbred desire
to be considered honorable. Even as
we broke treaties and enslaved people,
we tried to keep up the appearance
of honor.

When I was a Summer Scholar,
there was an incident after which the
counselor talked to us about their feel-
ings about the Honor Code. That’s
what made me

realizetheimpor- m e m b e r
tance of the ‘T  Hayduhe.
Honor Code. . Hayduke is the

In the back of In the back of my mind most radical ofthe
my mind there A - group, wishing to
was a question there was quesaon about preventintrusions
about how much how much of the Honor upon the land by
of the Honor Code stays with a person anymeansandun-

Code stays with a
p e rson
graduation.
The recent re-
fusal of John

after

Warner, an alumnus, to support Oliver A

North makes me think some of it does
stay. Perhaps he remembered the Honor
Code’s refusal to accept any lying,
cheating, or stealing. The alumni who

Emir of Kuwait. Most of
this support for
authoritarianism natu-
rally took place during
the Cold War, when prag-
matism, we could say,
forced us to undertake
policies unindicative of
our deepest values. But
even with this proviso,
are U.S. intentions sufﬁ-
ciently accounted for by

Our relations with foreign gov-
ernments reﬂect our uncertainty
about what we asAmericans feel
is ultimately important: is it the

popular will?

after graduation.

greater lasting threat to the forces of “good,” conve-
niently led by ourselves. General Pinochet made a
choice for his people that communism, though in
some measure approved democratically by the Chil-
ean people, was not tolerable by some higher stan- ‘
dard; the United States concurred. The decisio of '
policy-makers are, we might conclude, more ifﬁ-
cult than would be implied in the process of applying

a single rule or principle.

Our relations with foreign governments reﬂect
our uncertainty about what we as Americans feel is
ultimately important: is it the popular will? Is it some
universal concept of “human rights” or “justice? Is
it self-deterrnination?

All of these are excellent paradigms in their own
right, but the sad truth is that they often conﬂict on a
practical level. How do we emerge, then, from this
conceptual puzzle? The sheer complexity of it all

u———-

are here this weekend are probably
able to answer this question far better
then I can.

As for the ﬁnal premise of the quote,
that power is moving outward to the
people; I think in many ways it is
Congress has begun to outlaw mahy o ‘
its former perks and many incumbents
are now ﬂeeing Washington. In other
ways it hasn’t moved outward. People
do not truly realize that they have the
power to make or break a politician.
That is why the spiritual ideas of free-
dom and politics need to be truly jcmred.

Recently, I finished reading

The Monkeywrench Gang by

Edward Abbey.
For those of you who have read it,
I’m sure you re-

willing to. be
caught or cap-
tured. He i s ato-
‘ tally free spirit.

I am not sug

gesting that we all become anarchists;

but, I would like to believe that there i
a little bit of Hayduke in all of us 3- an
unwillingness to give up our freedom
or sacrifice the spiritual.

leads us, perhaps, to fa-
vor an ad hoc approitch
_ to foreign policy — one
guessing aboutAmerican
ideals. But this ultimately
does not work; people
without clear principles
are never taken seriously,
and rightly so.

The challenge of dis-
tilling simplistic value
statements into a nuanced
conception of American
purpose is daunting, but
it is only by facing it that

America can lead effectively in international afftﬂrs
— or, for that matter, in anything else.

EC dinner smacks of hypocrisy after budget problems

To the editor:

As the academic year comes to a
close, campus organizations are
celebrating a year’s worth of
work, none more so than the
Executive Committee.

Recently, the Executive Committee
treated itself, its newly elected mem-
bers and the White Book Review Com-
mittee to a night at the Wilson Walker
House. The bill, which included food,
wine and cocktails, came to over$1300.
That money came from our student
fees. Now most of us would probably

' agree the E.C. would be justified in a

moderate end of the year celebration at
the Palm’s or Spanky’s, but $1300 at
the Wilson Walker House? and includ-
ing newly elected members who have

yet to do any work?

Last fall when E.C. budget alloca-
tions were taking place, Jimmy Kull
told the Student Bar Association that
money was tight and paying down the
debt on the Pavilion was a priority, not
to mention the need to begin saving for
Mock Convention. As a result, after
combing every expenditure in the SBA
budget, especially each keg of beer, the
SBA budget was slashed by $6,000. I
watched other organizations petition
the E.C. and subsequently be turned
down because the E.C. refused to sup-
port clubs they deemed “partisan.” In-
stead, the E.C. is willing to take that
money, that could have funded three
small SBA organizations, and spend it
on their own lavish dinners.

All of us beneﬁt from the Honor
System here at Washington and Lee.
We are fortunate to have a community
based on trust.

To date, we have entrusted the E.C.
to be fair with the allocation of money
to organizations on campus. Perhaps it
is time the same standard be applied to
all organizations on campus, including
the E.C. Perhaps the student body
should consider separating the judicial
body from the legislative body to pro-
vide some check and balance. Or per-
haps the E.C. should have as much
interest in its own coffers as a means
for trimming spending as it seems to
have when considering other organiza-
tions’ budgets. The E.C. should be
the standard for all organizations

on campus.

I have enjoyed my three years as a
law student at Washington and Lee and
much of that pleasure has been a result
of the spirit of trust the honor syst m
crates across this campus. The E. . is
entrusted with a great deal of power
and privilege at W&Land if that power
is abused the E.C. has the potential to
be a dictatorial and elitist “club.”

I certainly hope the E.C. can remain
an organization devoted to serving the
student body and maintaining the same
standards it imposes on all other groups
and individuals here at Washington
and Lee.

Patricia McNemey
President, Student Bar Association
0

 

  
    
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
   
     
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
   

which keeps people"

  
   
    
    
  
     
   
  
      
    
      
   
    
  
    
   
   
  
    
     
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   

DREAM LAND
. Richard Weaver

Well, here we are, with only two
weeks left in this school year. It’s time
to look back and think about all of the
people, places, and things that have
made our lives here in Lexington a
littlb bit better.

I have decided to commemorate this

year’s people, places, and things by
issuing the First Annual Dream Land
Awards of Achievement. These awards
were NOT decided upon lightly. lt’s
nearly an hour before my deadline that
I haye made them up.
Criteria for a Dream Land Award
(henceforth known as the “Dreammy”)
include 1) Humor Value to Me 2) Po-
tential to Profit Me Personally and 3) If
I Remember It. With those three ideas
in mind, it was still hard to narrow
dow the contestants. Luckily,
I persevered.

The first category is Best Name I
Have Encountered in Rockbridge
County; B. Eli Fishpaw, candidate for
the seat of supervisor of Buffalo Dis-
trict, wins the Dreammy. You may
remember that, unfortunately, F ishpaw
did ot win the election. But it wasn’t
due to poor political advertising —
there were some very snazzy B. Eli
Fishpaw bumper stickers I saw on cars
around town. I am offering $5 to any-
one who will give me one.

The next category is, naturally, Best
Q .

O
The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

Example of Lexington Logic. The
Dreammy goes to the local branch of
the U.S. Post Office for an event that
took place earlier this year. My mother
mailed me some cookies by two-day
express mail. The cookies took six days
to get here. I brought this to the atten-
tion of the employees.

“lt’s not guaranteed,” they said.

To this I re-
plied, “Then why
do you call it
two-day mail?”

I was very
disappointed,
and that adjec-
tive logically
leads me to the
Biggest Disap-
pointment of
the Year cat-
egory. In January
I drove on Route
11 on the way to
Natural Bridge to
visit the En-
chanted Castle
theme park. The
E n c h a n t e d
Castle was first brought to my attention
by former Phi News Editor Michelle
“Sweet Thing” Brien.

Shelly gave me a coupon for a dollar
off the Santa’s Christmas Castle dis-
play at the Enchanted Castle. The cou-
pon was very speciﬁc about who would
be allowed in: “" is here coupon al-
lows the perso' possess it (sic),
$1 off for " .ves and family

   
  

3: VIEW

Justin Peterson

    
  
     
      
    
  
    
  
   
   
  
   
  
     
   
        
    
   
    
     
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
    
   
     
   
    
    
  
   
   
   

ﬁce9or the ’90s by Melissa Sawyer).

- getarianism really are. .

the facts about it is just good sense.

stal

nsi

cape repulsion with such practices.

I picked up the May 6 issue of The Ring-tum Phi
- ently and spotted a headline for an article about
- getarianism (Vegetarianism: An untraditional sac-

I prepared myself to read the work of some igno-
mus deriding vegetarians as “politically correct,”
. vironmentally hypersensitive, socially deviant tree

ggers out of touch with reality. I was heartened to
e that the author treated the topic fairly, suggesting
me of the major motivations for and varieties of
gettrianism. I felt compelled to write in order to
= derscore how profound the issues surrounding

Perhaps the greatest fallacy surrounding vegetari-
ism is that its potential appeal is conﬁned to animal
htsextremists, health nuts and environmental ac-
ists. While vegetarianism is especially popular
'th tﬁese decidedly marginalized groups, the ben-
its of it are such that any person with sane levels of
pncem about their health, animal welfare and the
elfare of the environment can recognize its compel-
» g value. In short, vegetarianism for those educated

Few realize the extent and severity of the institu-
naliged torture practiced upon animals at today’s
eat and dairy factories, euphemistically referred to
their management as “farms.” Even those not in
inciple opposed to the organized slaughter of ani-
als for human consumption can be disgusted by the
dustry’s cruel practices and dedicated to halting
em. Pigs at pork factories, like veal calves which
ve déawn so much sympathy, are routinely packed

so small they cannot move. Chickens, ultra-
nsitive to the light rhythms of day and night, go
sane when confined under ultraviolet factory lights
ir entire lives and take to pecking each other to
ath. Cattle in shipment are habitually left without
0 o and water. Subjected to searing temperature, a
to a percentage die painfully of exhaustion. This is
red merely a calculated loss by cattle ship-
rs. The facts go on and are often too painful to
nfront even from a distance. To eat meat is to
pport the mechanized torture of sentient beings.
0 one who has ever owned and loved a pet can

Meat eating not only promotes cruelty to animals,

tes, hypoglycemia, MS,
ulcers, arthritis, gall-
stones, hypertension,
anemia, asthma,
salmonellosis, lung dis-
ease, osteoporosis, and 1
‘ kidney stones. '

If the facts regarding
vegetarianism are so
clear then why are
doctors not widely

urging their patients to
eat vegetarian?

Most doctors are in
the business of address-
ing symptoms of physi-
cal disorder. They
frankly don’t know much
about nutrition or even
health. Thirty years ago

our coronary occlusions.”

dairy products.

 

doctors were recommending that their patients smoke
cigarettes to relieve nervousness! Yet even the con-
servative AMA in a monumental recent study has
concluded that “a vegetarian diet can prevent 97% of

Americans remain ignorant of the facts regarding
meat and dairy consumption because the industry has
mounted a sustained compaign masquerading as a
series of public service announcements to misinform
the public about the nutritional content of meat and

They have been very successful. Americans can-
not get over the tragic myths that not eating meat and
dairy products is dangerous, that “milk does a body
good,” and that beef gives strength.

The notion that vegetarianism saps strength is a
tenacious falsehood. Research has proven that veg-

and friends who happen to be
along!” Really.

When we arrived at the Enchanted
Castle we walked in the front gate (it
was wide open) and stepped into a truly
magical world. There were weeds ev-
erywhere (tall ones), along with ran-
dom piles of dirt and plaster. We wan-
dered over to the “Jurassic Zoo” sec-
tion, which fea-
tured larger
multi-colored
dinosaurs. One
of them was
stomping a real
French Renault
car.

I was all
ready to ask the
proprietor of
the Enchanted
Castle, Mark
Kline, if he
would consider
installing one
of those dino-
saurs in the
Graham-Lees
quad, but he
was not around. Neither was any other
living creature. We had entered the set
of Deliverance.

Since there was no one around to
allow us into the indoor portion of the
Enchanted Castle, we left. To com-
plete the Deliverance imagery, our car
wouldn’t start. We considered gather-
ing firewood and arming ourselves,
but luckily the car did eventually start.

has mounted a sustained

compaign masquerading as a
series of public service announce-
ments to misinform the public
about the nutritional content of

meat and dairy products.

as well.

OPINION

This year needs another award

Someone at a nearby gas station told us
that the castle wouldn’t be open again
until spring. I hereby award the
Dreammy for Biggest Disappointment
of the Year to Mark Kline’s Enchanted
Castle.

In the category of Biggest Target I
think there’s simply no contest: Tom
Hespos wins the Dreammy hands down.
In the past yearl have compared him in
print to a WCW wrestler, an armed
thug, an overgrown bear, Elvis Presley,
a deranged postal worker, and a Stop-
In customer. It was hard finding some-
one so adaptable in terms of uncalled-
for name calling. I had wanted to make
fun of his mother, too, but I ran out
of time.

My last prize is the Best New Artist
Dreammy, which goes to Phi Photog-
raphy Editor Betsy Green. Ms. Green
has shown comedic promise as Hespos’
replacement, and this is the reason that
I will have to take her down. I’ll start
the feud now by saying that Ms. Green
is a Girl Scout Gone Bad, and she’s on
an evil mission here at W&L, and we
should all shudder at the possibility of
“Green Land,” and I like forming re-
ally long complex sentences, which is
something I bet you did not notice
before, but that’s OK.

Congratulations to all of the win-
ners. I leave you, the readers, as I found
you: in peace. May you prosper this
summer, and I will see you in the fall
with a whole new season of Dream
Land.

Oh, yes.

egetarians because it’s logical

it also poisons our bodies. For 99.9% of human
history men have eaten whatever their local habitats
provided and their health varied according to the
content of their available diet. Yet research since
World War II has conclusively proven that a vegetar-
ian diet is the healthiest possible and that meat eating
contributes to nearly every major health risk known
to man. Studies have shown that there is a direct
correlation between the amount of meat people eat
and their rates of heart disease, stroke and cancer, the
leading causes of death in America. In fact, those few
societies in the world which do not eat meat have
been found not to exhibit heart disease at all! In
addition, meat eating has been demonstrated to in-
’crease susceptibility to constipation, obesity, diabe-

etarianism, in fact, aids in both muscle and stamina
development. Dave Scott, 4-time winner of the
Ironman triathlon, is a vegetarian. As is 1980 Mr.
International Andreas Cahling, bench press record
holder Stan Price and Olympic champion Edwin
Moses! There is simply no truth to the fact that
vegetarianism prevents muscle development or that
meat builds strength. Consider the animal kingdom.
The gorilla is a vegetarian. The vulture is a carnivore.

Vegetarian eating also contributes to the preser-
vation of our imperiled environment. Few realize
how profoundly devastating is the environmental
destruction wrought by the meat industry. Meat is the
most inefficient investment conceivable of our food
resources. 90% of the protein we invest in livestock

cc-———

. Americans remain ignorant of _
the facts regarding meat and daily
consumption because the industry

is wasted. Even a 10%
reduction in America’s
meat eating would save
12 million tons of grain
annually  enough to
feed each of the some 60
million people who will
likely die of starvation
worldwide this year.
Meat production dra-
matically promotes soil
exhaustion and erosion
and contributes to the de-
struction of rain forests
at a terrifying rate. If
Central American rain
forests are destroyed for
livestock grazing at their
current rate they will be
completely eliminated

within forty years. Not only does meat production
absorb our resources, it is a tremendous polluter

As U.S. livestock produces twenty times as much

waste annually as the entire U.S. population, the meat

industry is responsible for more than three times as
much organic waste water pollution as the remainder
of national industry combined!

Vegetarianism is essentially an affirmation of
life. In deciding what you will eat the life of countless

animals facing torture, the life of our planet and the

   
   
  
  

:3 y Betsy Green

‘I don’t really have one, Actually, I
trefer inﬂatable ones.”

   

hiark Tobias, ’97, Freehold, N.J. —

1 nterviews and Photos

TALKBACK

 

quality and duration of your own life are at stake.

I urge every reader to make a commitment to
vegetarianism today.

The facts in this “My View” are drawn from John
Robbins’ Diet for a New America and Anthony
Robbins’ Unlimited Power.

OCTAA

The On—Campus Talking About
Alcohol program will take place on
Monday, May 16, Wednesday, May
18, and Friday, May 20, 10 a.m. to
noon each day. Attend all three
sessions to learn how to make low-

mental format. Call Carol Calkins
at 463-8590 to reserve your space.

Music

The Rockbridge Concert The-
atre Series is presenting “Gemini,”
San and Las, who together play
nearly a dozen instruments. The
performances will be held in Lex-
ington at the Rockbridge County
High School on Saturday, May 21,
at 3 p.m. Tickets may be purchased
at the door. For more information
call 463-5360.

Movie

Women’s Forum is presenting
NotA Love Story, a film on pomog-
raphy, on Monday, May 16, and
Tuesday, May 17, at 8:05 p.m. in
the Troubadour Theatre. Admis-
sion is free. The movie contains
explicit material.

Reception

A reception for alumni women
and undergraduate women to pro-
mote networking between women
after college will be held on Satur-
day, May 14, from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in
the Alumni House.

‘Phi

The Phi is looking for someone
to fill the paid circulation manager
position. If interested, please call
Ransom James at 462-4049.

 

risk drinking choices in a non-judg-.

Keys

Need some extra cash for this
spring term?

If you have a key to a student
organization of sorority office in
the University Center that you no
longer need, return it to Carol
Calkins for a full refund. The dead-
line to receive a cash refund is
Wednesday, May 18.

Tests

The last day to take the Career I
tests this year is Wednesday,
May 18. If you are interested in
taking the Myers-Briggs or Strong
Campbell Interest Inventories,
pleasescheduleanappointmentwith
Ms. Saunders in the Career Devel-
opment Office. '

Film Society ‘

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will close out the 1993-94
season with Angel At My Table, on
Friday, May 13, and Saturday, May
14, at 8:05 p.m. The film is in
English. There is no charge for
admission

.4...

....

‘V

Bike

A Tracker 820 mountain bike
with no identification on it is
in the Washington and Lee
Security Office. If you recognize
the bike, or know anything about it,
please contact security at 462-7800.

Hillel   ~ 

Year end meeting Sunday, May
15, at 8 p.m. in the Fairfax Lounge
of the University Center. Come
elect officers and set goals for next
year

Hespos misinformed
about SFHB hearings

To the editor:

As Chair of the Student Faculty
Hearing Board I write to deny the accu-
sations so erroneously hurled at the
SFHB in the May 6 issue of The Ring-
tum Phi.

Tom Hespos’ column “Keep the
letter committees in line” is correct in
one detail regarding SFHB; namely,
that “the SFHB set up deal with the
problem of sexual misconduct.”

In reading Dean Howison’s memo,
Mr. Hespos seems to have confused
infonnation regarding the SFHB with
information provided about cases in-
volving alleged violations of Wash-
ington and Lee’s “Statement on Per-

sonal Conduct.”

In order to clear the record I wish to
state that the SFHB has heard no case
“involving racial harassment,” no case
involving “an offensive phone mes-
sage,” and no case involving “an offen-
sive poem.”

The SFHB understands our charge
as stated in the Student Handbook and
to my knowledge has done nothing to
violate this charge or to erode the trust
which the Washington and Lee com-
munity has placed in this group of
students and faculty. *-

Cecile West-Settle
Chair, SFHB

By Joe Framptom

What is your favorite stuffed animal?

 

4-,~.y»

Lamandra Jenkins, ’97, Jackson-
ville, Fla. and her bear Cocoa —
“Cocoa is the best!”

 

 

Susan Deutsch, ’95, Smithtown, N.Y.
— “Winnie the Pooh.” '

Kim Herring, ’95, Boone, N.C. —
“Norman the cow.”

 

Layout

Amy Mears, ’96, Greensburg, Penn.

— “My stuffed bear, Edward.”

 

Denis Riva, ’97, Fairfax, Va.
panda bear I got in ltaly.”

“The .

      

    

    

PAGE 8

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 199

FIJI alumni critical of faculty for supporting SAC-

To the editor:

We were concerned to read in the
Spring 1994 Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Alumni Magazine that, at its
April meeting, the University faculty
passed a motion supporting the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee decision sus-
pending Phi Gamma Delta. ‘

It is difficult to accept that the fac-
ulty at a university which, as the Trust-
ees have stated, places emphasis on
“concepts of honor, integrity, standards
of value, leadership, good character,
respect for traditions and personal re-
sponsibility” would express its support
for a sanction which is factually insup-
portable, runs contrary to the
University’s published statements and
is fundamentally unfair.

Perhaps, we thought, the faculty
does not know that Dennis Manning’s
memorandum of January 6, 1994,
which was, in effect, the charge against
Phi Gamma Delta, is seriously ﬂawed
in important respects.

Perhaps the faculty has not read the .

Student Handbook at pages 62 and 63
where it indicates that hazing should
result in suspension only if the frater-
nity involved was on critical probation
or if the incident was very severe. (Why
else would the handbook state: “NOTE:
It is possible that a violation of policy
could result in an incident so severe,
e.g., the death of a student resulting
from hazing, that the immediate sus-
pension or expulsion would be enforced
even if the fraternity was not on critical
probation at the time of the incident.”)
Perhaps the faculty has not read the
University’s Anti-Hazing Agreement
which also suggests that for any hazing
to result in suspension, the hazing must
have been serious, e.g., must have re-
sulted in serious bodily injury.
Perhaps the faculty did not recog-
nize the deficiencies in the Student
Handbook — while it contains state-
ments of the University Policy on AIDS,

:§}F:l>~O~O~O°O~'O*O ~0~O0O.~0~O0O'~0‘O°O’~0~‘O0O:OIO-O’O‘O°O 056*-0.0260-O'#I6¢§f#IO°9:OfOvO:#Il~§ #20-0-Of#IO*O0 O09 0 660 O 000,0

   

.‘¢.gogqooqspore.-go5.9org...ogqoQoowwoooooomooooooooO-O00-Ce«OoO-Oo~Q-O~rO«DoO-O0-O09oO~9o0~Ov~O-OoQ«|'Q-O~;~O-O*0“|*9‘9"9‘9"9“""°"”

the University Policy Statement on Al-
cohol, the University Policy Statement
on the Serving of Alcohol, the Univer-
sity Policy Statement on Drugs, the
University Drug and Alcohol Policy
with respect to University Housing,
the University Policy Statement Re-
garding the Sale of Goods and Services
on Campus and a statement of the Policy
and Procedures on Sexual Misconduct,
and while it refers to “the University
Hazing Policy,” (see page 63), there is
no published University HazingPolicy.

Perhaps, the faculty did not recog-
nize that the Standards for Fraternities
does not mention the word hazing, that
there is a serious legal question about
the SAC’s jurisdiction in the matter,
and that there is even more serious
question about the SAC’s conduct in
reviewing the matter de novo and then
imposing a sanction far more harsh
than that suggested by the IFC.

Perhaps the faculty did not stop to
think of the absurdity of a sanction
which penalizes most harshly those it
is facially intended to protect —— those
pledges who were “hazed.”

Perhaps the faculty did not reflect
on how the imposition of the sanction,
under the circumstances, gives every
appearance of being a repudiation of
the principles set forth in the Board of
Trustees’ Policy Statement Relating to
Campus Life, especially the concept of
student self-govemance.

Perhaps the faculty did not under-
stand that the sanction ﬂies in the face
of the 1990 resolution of the National
lnter-Fratemity Council House of Del-
egates which states: “Restrictions on
rush when used for disciplinary pur-
poses are neither educational nor de-
velopmental and therefore are not
an acceptable sanction for
men’s fraternities.”

Just maybe, the faculty had not been
given the facts on both sides of the
issue because its vote mirrored the

administration’s view. It is not unrea-
sonable to conclude that the vote was
the result of just one more step in the
rather extraordinary efforts made
by the administration to support
its position.

The faculty owes it to itself, to the
students and to the University to be
fully informed and to carefully con-
sider the issues before taking a public
position on the subject.

The “charge” against Phi Gamma
Delta, Dennis Manning’s January 6,
1994 memorandum, recounted two
events which took
place at the Phi
Gam house. The

of anyone’s imagination can be con-
sidered an event for serious hazing.
Yet, the facts were ignored.

The second event described in Den-
nis Manning’s memorandum was a
consensual social event which took
place on Saturday, December 4, 1993
after a concert held that night.

Although John Wilson, in rejecting
our appeals, concluded that this second
event was hazing, that conclusion ﬂies
in the face of the sworn statements of
those involved.

No objectively reasonable person

consider the
i n c i d e n t
“hazing.”

 

first, was a pledge
rally which took
place between ap-
proximately 12:00
midnight and
12:45 a.m. during
the evening of
Monday, Novem-
ber 29, 1993
(morning of No-
vember 30, 1993).

D e n n i s
Manning’s recita-
tion suggests that

--—-cc

The administration
disregarded the facts,
refused to honor state-
ments made by pledges
and other members of the
fraternity and, as has
been admitted by at least
two members of the
administration, used this

John Wilson,
to some extent,
must have recog-
nized how inac-
curate Dennis
M a n n i n g ’ s
memorandum
was because,
when heafﬁrrned
the SAC deci-
sion, he empha-
sized different
grounds. The Phi
Gams had been

the session lasted
close to four hours.
It did not. It lasted
between 40 and 45
minutes. Dennis
Manning’smemo-
randum states that “the pledges were
all very drunk. The tone of this
episode. . .was abusive — massive push
ups and drinking.” That simply is not
true. It states that the pledges “were
forced to do push ups until they col-
lapsed from exhaustion.” That is not
true. We know that because we, unlike
the SAC, investigated. We talked to all
pledges involved except for Jay
Taggert. We took statements from each
of the pledges’. The rally under no stretch

situation to “send a
message to fraternities.”

tried and con-
victed on one al-
leged set of facts,
but the convic-
tion was upheld
through a slick
massaging of the circumstances.

No longer were the Phi Gams
charged with hazing in which there
was massive physical abuse and exces-
sive forced alcohol consumption. No,
now the “hazing” had become “seri-
ous,” primarily because it was
planned in advance — because it
was “premeditated.”

In short, John Wilson said the “haz-
ing” was “serious” because he said it
was. It did not matter that his definition

  SUbs(:RIbE
TO ”THE STUCIENT VOICE

OF W&L,”

of serious did not jibe with the state-
ments in the University Handbook that
“serious” or “severe” equates to seri-
ous injury.

The suspension of Phi Gamma Delta
by the SAC is troubling to us on two
levels. The first is obvious —— it is
unjust and unfair. The suspension is
not warranted by the facts and is not
supported by any University Policy
Statement or definition of hazing. Not
only is the penalty insupportable, it
penalizes most ‘harshly those whose
interests it supposedly is trying to pro-
tect — the pledges.

The second level is broader and is
related to our concern for the Univer-
sity itself and the Fraternity System.
The administration’s conduct repre-
sents a rejection of many of the values
and concepts which have made
W&L great.

While lip service has been given to
support for the Fraternity System and
concern for students, the
administration’s actions have shouted
a different story. The SAC imposed
sanction is an obvious attempt to elimi-
nate Phi Gamma Delta from Washing-
ton and Lee.

It is difficult to imagine any frater-
nity at W&Ltoday which readily could
survive the elimination of rush.

The handling of the situation also
has made a mockery of the
administration’s oft stated support for
the Honor System. The administration
disregarded the facts, refused to honor
statements made by pledges and other
members of the fraternity and, as has
been admitted by at least two members
of the administration, used this situa-
tion to “send a message to fraternities.”
The ends, therefore, justiﬁed the means.
The facts and the interests of those
involved did not matter. The original
sanction suggested by the IFC and the
extraordinary efforts of the Phi Gam
House Corporation were ignored. Self-

O60 0‘ 000 0:000 O 000 ~'3O¢O-0-‘Q°O:*.G~O'~':O*9’O‘C»O,~r.Ov-O’~0~ 009 0,006.0 0.03:6‘-O #~Q*9~0*O°O $000 ~r.Q~O'~r,

I EEp Up WITH THE wE.E|<ly
HAPPENINGS OF \>x/&L-

THE RING-TU/vi PHI

OUR AwARd-WINNING STAFF Wlll |<EEp

yOUINFORMEd.

TO sUbsCR|bE, SENCI 5930 TO

THE RING-TU/vi PHI

P. 0. BOX 899
Lexmmom, VA 244 50

(YOUR sUbsCRIpTION WITH OUR FIRST ISSUE NEXT yEAR).

3”,“ ,,.,-... .,...-._... .~..._.,...-... .,..o 0,009 «M oo-ooooboooooo-9+4-0 as-9.» coo «:0» o cots:'o:o~9Ct2o~9:o:o~b’o:¢~o:r20~9£o30-O we-9+.» «V» + 0-0 who #0» o 0-0 «wow 0-» «.0» o.
- 9
i

governance was not to be allowed. The
SAC, without any independent investi-
gation, heard the matter de novo.

That fundamental attack on the ba-
sic principles which make, and have
made, W&L special should no be toler-
ated, let alone applauded, by members
of the faculty. ’

There is not enoughtspace in this
letter to cover all aspects of this prob-
lem. For that reason, we are sending
copies of the two appeals and some of
the related and supporting correspon-
dence to both TheRing-tum Phi and the
Trident in the hope that those.publica-
tions will make them available to
whomever wishes to read them.

This is a sad chapter in the history of
Washington and Lee. How can a; ad-
ministration at Washington and Lee
ignore facts, disregard the word of stu-
dents and ignore its own publications-
and the short—comings in them? .

W&L should be better than that.

Each of us has great affection for
the University. We want W&L to re-
main the unique institution that iﬁs. It
should no be allowed to become just
another good, small college.‘

We hope that the faculty and stu-
dents of Washington and Lee agree
with us.

Phi Gamma Delta, its members, its
pledges, its alumni and the parerﬁs 0
its members have been unfairly and
improperly treated. ' i

If you agree with us, please make
your voices heard.

Edward L. Bishop, Trustee
Class of 1968 0

Frank H. Griffin, Ill, Parent
Class of 1968

John H. Norberg, President

Zeta Deuteron Chapter _
Corporation of Phi Gamma Delta
Class of 1979

.. ,,«r,,9.°..OL';.¢.°1.|..t._*.'_.9 $4.919

 

C

— 9 if . #‘
0~‘O-O'# 90 500-0 0 O-O" O-°0’#‘O-Of#IO'O'0ZO-6 50-o9_o‘Qo9’oj§.§:o;oo§ _ojQ.g:.‘¢..’.*...-‘,-

~.—

Q I
-g.g-o~o‘o‘ooo'o¢~O'0-'0'*‘**°

 



 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

W&L woman says she is too fat

losing Weight became obsession

' it From EATING, page 1

“My parents weren’t around a lot,”
said Jane. Her mother, the dominant
parent in the family, often criticized
herweight. “She always told me to lose
a couple of pounds.”

‘I was always trying to lose weight,”
said Jane. Her desire never became that
serious until she came down with mono-
nucleosis her sophomore year in high
school.

“I couldn’t eat for about two or
three weeks. I lost about 10 pounds.
Afyr that, I didn’t really eat normally.”

For the next two years, J ane ate “as
little as I could. I ate one meal a day,
like an orange and a piece of toast.” By
avoiding eating with her family when-
ever possible, Jane was able to deceive
them about her eating habits.

ane‘doesn’t blame her anorexia on
the’ waif-thin models of the fashion
industry or society’s unrealistic im-
ages of beauty.

“I don’t want to be thin because
Kate Moss is thin. That’s a load of
bullshit. I wanted to be thin because it
was something I could be good at.”

ane’s anorexia gave her a means of
control over her life.

“My mom and I don’t get along
well. We’d get in afight and I’d be like,

' ‘Fine, I just won’t eat this week.”’

Anorexia took its effects on Jane’s
body. She became “really, really tired.
I cOuldn’t do anything...I got really
sick just walking up stairs. And I was
always cold. Really cold.”

Her parents ﬁnally noticed her
weight loss.

“After I lost another 10 pounds, my
mother said, ‘You’re beginning to look

0

‘C/of/ting ﬁr [A2

THE

ante in an.J aquire our /tadif,

ll/e!!aCg'e55eJ (1/0I7’l€lI’l. s
“We/come ﬂacé ./4/urrtni./



a little skinny.’” Her parents noticed
nothing serious until Jane went to the
doctor her senior year in high school.

Jane went to the doctor to have her
medical forms signed for entrance at
W&L. He ordered her to see a coun-
selor and a nutritionist.

The counselor helped, by providing
an outlet for Jane’s feelings. The nutri-
tionist did not.

In the same way she fooled her
parents, Jane was able to fool her nutri-
tionist.

imagine wasting my life on something
like that.”

Jane slowly began eating again with
help from her friends.

“I couldn’t remember how to eat,”
she said, so she followed the eating
habits of healthier friends.

“Just by kind of watching other
peoplel trusted, they helped me out a
lot,” she said.

“I didn’t really start eating that much
until I arrived here,” said Jane. “I just

kept putting it off. I

“I had to  couldonlyeatabout
keep food dia— a meal a day when I
ries and com- _ got here. I couldn’t
pletely made I wanted t0 be thm eat three meals a
them up,” said because  was somethin day until about
Jane. g Christmas.”

“I’d write I could be good at, Jane has more
down that I ate energy now.
like two peanut   “I can do a lot

butter sand-

wiches in one meal and the nutritionist
would be like, ‘Oh, you’re doing
great,” .

Jane kept this up for eight or nine
months, doing everything in her power
to avoid food.

“I had to get weighed every Wednes-
day and drank lots of water and wore
heavy sweaters. I also put penny rolls
in my pockets. After a while, I worked
my way up to ten penny rolls,” she
laughed.

This continued until Jane’s doctor
told her he wouldn’t sign her forms to
attend college. Jane realized she had to
regain the weight.

“I have a good friend. She’s about
30 and underwent shock treatment for
anorexia,” said Jane. “She was in the
hospital for a long time. I couldn’t

    

,4, 


).;»,“¢.

463-9340 ’

/4»; €11’:  777a.4fencarJ

and Restaurant

‘ . "‘ "I s. -. - 1.. - |I.o --..
,~. -_...t-r -...A -t-...\.- ‘hf 4.-ryk-...x.»$’4_.: ‘.._u.q.'.._u.-r.':
'-. .s~.'.'~. .9-:.'-2-.'.r-~:.'-34'» , -.:-5 :.«~:.'~-.z-5.7.?-'4-I:«x'=;,_»:.

r
4-‘
§—

22. w 14.e.;.s2.   .t

Chef Stewart prepares daily vciilinary delights -.;
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen, 3!‘

Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

Six Room Inn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dinin T "
Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

I

i.-r~_-._~ H i.
'-‘-,~.'~}"3.-'?_-.*-‘-.-:* -51:3

'I‘uesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

 2 . v 1

Gift Certiﬁcates Now Available

Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+)
5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
Call for reservations: 703-463-9715

. I‘. .; 1--. an .-_ . 1.-. 1. . ‘.
,_-.-._-*3;;;' ‘.1;-;;::.'g,g«~<~ -1:-.:r;,-:.',-_,~.,r.;.-,_.‘_-..

. s‘

Dining Services

,{3r‘‘'ua;:‘:’

- 

‘(-1 :3’. '

-v?.' I. » 4:‘-

To apply, please see
RobertDunlap,
Vera Merchant,

or T. J . Wiley

..... ’Av-)1 n-.s..,.~:w-—»,>~ M

at the 

' - -- « -“-1-1-  1- .v

E?

is currently accepting applications '

t , from W&L student workers for the .
'9 1994-95 school year. Positions
». 0 available include lineworkers,

'_checkers, .and dishroom personnel. 

more with [my
body],” she said. But she is still not
comfortable with her body.

“I still think I’m way too fat, but I
try not to think about it. If I tried to lose
weight, I would fall back in the same
thing.” At 5” 6’, Jane weighs 105 lbs.

Although she has regained weight,
Jane does not feel she is recovered.

“I think I would be recovered if I
could look at my body in the mirror and
say, ‘You look good.”’

In addition to her distorted body
image, Jane is still tempted by thoughts
of not eating.

“It starts in the morning when I’m at
breakfast and think, ‘I don’t have to
eat anything today. It’s kind of exhila-
rating. If I don’t eat anything, I’ll
think, ‘Hey, I didn’t eat today. I did
a good job.”’

PAGE 9

Alumni Weekend Calendar

Friday

9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Reunion Regis-
tration Alumni House

9 a.m. Spring meeting of the
Law Council

10 a.m. Campus Tours Alumni
House

10:45 Reunion Seminar: “An-
guish of Blood: Ethnic Conflicts
Across Eastern Europe” Modera-
tor: W. Lad Sessions, Professor of
Philosophy and Associate Dean of
the College duPont Hall, Room
102

10:45 Reunion Seminar: “Pre-
paring for the 21st Century: Three
Critical Decisions” Moderator:
Robert P. Fure, Director of Special
Programs Lewis Hall, Moot court
room

12 p.m. Luncheon Front Lawn

1:30 p.m. Reunion Seminar
“W&L Today: An Undergraduate
and Law Student Panel Discussion”
Moderator: David L. -Howison,
Dean of Students Lee Chapel

2:45 p.m. Reunion Seminar:
“Scientiﬁc Frontiers at Washing-
ton and Lee” Moderator: William
J. Watt, Professor of Chemistry
Howe Hall, Room 311

2:45 p.m. Reunion Seminar
“Prelude to Atlanta: W&L’s In-
volvement in the ’96 Olympics”
Moderator: Richard S. Sessoms,
Director of Major Gifts Commerce

School, Room 327

5:30 p.m. Cocktails with the Fac-
ulty, honoring retiring faculty mem-
bers Front Lawn

6:30 p.m. Buffet Dinner Front Lawn

8 p.m. Alumni Concert: Jubil_.ee,
Southern Comfort and Sazeracs Alumni
bee Chapel

9 p.m. Reunion Dance (informal):
SPECTRUM Warner Center

Saturday

8 a.m. Fun Run through W&L and
Lexington Doremus Gymnasium

9 a.m. - 10 a.m. Registration for late
arrivals Alumni House

9 a.m. Photos for Undergraduate
Classes of ’44, ’49, ’54, ’59, and ’64
Lee Chapel

10 a.m. Joint Annual Meeting of the
W&L Alumni and the W&L Law
Alumni Associations Lee Chapel

11 a.m. Hillel Reception Univer-
sity Center, Fairfax Lounge

11:30 a.m. Class of 1944 Class
Meeting and Graduation Lee Chapel

12:30 p.m. Luncheon with the Fac-
ulty Front Lawn

1:30 p.m. Reunion Seminar:
“Alumni College Abroad: Past and
Future” Moderated by: Robert P. Fure,
Director of Special Programs Leyburn
Library, Northen Auditorium

2p.m. Law SchoolAlumni Soft-
ball Game w/ Wildgrass Lewis
Hall

5:30 p.m. Law School Alumni
cocktails and buffet dinner at the
home of Dean and Mrs. Randall P.
Bezanson, 111 Lee Avenue

FOR THE CLASS OF ’44 6
p.m. Cocktails at the home of Tad
and Mia Humphreys, 406 S. Main
St.

FOR THE CLASS OF ’44 7:30
p.m. Banquet and Dance at Lex-
ington Golf and Country Club

FOR THE CLASS OF ’49: 6:30
p.m. Cocktails and Banquet,
Willson-Walker House

FOR THE CLASS OF ’54: 6:30
p.m. Lenfest Center

FOR THE CLASS OF ’59: 6:30
p.m. Ramada Inn

FOR THE CLASS OF ’64: 6:30
p.m. Gaines Hall Gatehouse

FOR THE CLASS OF ’69: 6:30
p.m. Summer House at Natural
Bridge

For the Undergraduate classes
’74, ’79, ’84 and ’89, 6 p.m. Old-
fashioned Barbeque Bash at
Z.ollman’s Pavilion

9:30 p.m. “In the GHQ” featur-
ing Leleune Jones. Cash bar.

Free Room in nice home two
miles from Lexington in exchange for help with
disabled woman. 1994-95 school year. Please call
for details and further information. 463-3346

Apartment for Rent
4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.

2 1/2 miles west of town. Only $175 per bedroom.
Inquire at Kelly’s Comer 463-5452

 

     

722.51/zea.e

wmowme STORES *

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2186

Wed. Special -

Large Cheese Pizza $4.95
Now Delivering from 4 p.m. to

800 North Main Street
(Old Stop-In Store)

463-5757

I'_.

Alvin -

Welcome

gméah

zeetacoumz.‘

LEE‘

Rt. 11 North

 

Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes
Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

   . 

Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m.

Sunday 9 a.m.-2 p.m.
463-3478

/

Open 24 Hours

THE BEST IN

W&L T11‘. CAPS. SWE/ITS
AND OTHER "S7llFF'

15 W. WASHINGTON ST.

703 464-3000

800 474-0056

Bennie
Alumni!

Alumni Special
Suits and Sportcoats

20%

Off

Suits and Coats by Haspel, Oritsky, & Bowdon Ray-Ban Sunglasses
W&L Belts, Ties, Keychains, Dog Collars

Sero Shirts

Shoes by Bass, Walkover & Topsider
Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek & Duckhead
Duckhead Shorts and Pants

5....~.,,“.€,.,..._u.;»;.,4,-.91. .. L ..,u_ . . . .

Red Wing Boots
Embassy Boxers
W&L Blazer Buttons
W&L Strawhats

Since 1963 .
102 W. Washin ton St.
(703) 463-5 83
9 - 5:30 Monday - Saturday
10 - 3 Sunday May 15th

MASTERCARD

STUDENT CHARGE

  

Page 10

 

9
The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

’74 LAX one of best ever at W&L

i» From LAX, page 12

goals with W&L for the ﬁrst 30 minutes and
the two went to half-time tied at 9-9.

With the game at 13-13 in the fourth-
quarter, Towson appeared on their way to
victory scoring four of the next ﬁve goals.

The ’94 Generals 12-11 comeback victory
over Roanoke, a game they trailed 11-6 in the
final minutes, reminded Farrar of the Towson
game.

“It never crossed our minds we’d lose. We
had the conﬁdence and the ability to win those
kind of games,” said Farrar.

Having pulled within 17-16, W&L took a
time-out in the ﬁnal minute to set up a play.
With the players expecting Bauer to be given
the ball to restart play, Emmer had Lichtfuss
take possession. Lichtfuss scored with 14 sec-
onds left to force overtime, and he and Bauer
each netted a goal in the extra-session for the
19-17 victory. An ill Skeet Chadwick proved
healthy enough to shut-out Towson for the
ﬁnal 16 minutes in goal.

Both Farrar and O'Connell agree that was
the toughest and the pivotal game in the sea-
son for the Generals, who improved to 10-0.

Going into the ﬁnal game of the regular
season, a showdown with Emmer’s former
Cortland State, the defending Division III
champs, 13-0 Washington & Lee was liftedto
number-2 in the national rankings. Only Mary-
land stood ahead of W&L.

The Generals responded with a 14-4 Wil-
son Field trouncing of the Red Dragons to
complete their second—straight perfect regular
season. They now seemed assured of hosting
the first two NCAA Tournament games and
would not face Maryland until the champion-
ship.

But something funny happened on the way
to the playoffs.

While W&L was pounding on a quality
opponent, number-3 Johns Hopkins beat Mary-
land.

The pollsters reacted by showing just how
much skepticism they still had of W&L’s abil-
ity. Hopkins (who had lost to two of W&L’s
victims, Navy and Virginia) was elevated to the
number-one ranking.

Maryland, despite the loss, was dropped
onlyto number-two. The Generals were, thus,
rewarded for beating Cortland State by being
dropped in the polls to number-three!

Huh?

Yes, the top-ranked team had two defeats,
the second-ranked team had one loss, and the
third-ranked team was unbeaten. '

A Baltimore Sun writer probably best
summed up the happenings: “...the establish-
ment kicked Washington and Lee and some
1,600 students in the britches.”

Emmer called the new poll “an injustice.”

“You can’t crack the lacrosse establishment
just by winning,” he said at the time. “They
can’t believe this little school in the Virginia
Valley can be any good.”

“It reﬂected that people still didn’t believe
in W&L,” said O'Connell.

Both O'Connell and Farrar feel that poll
stood between W&L and the national title.

After topping Navy, 11-9, in the ﬁrst round
of the playoffs, the Generals had to travel to
Johns Hopkins for the semiﬁnal game.

“I like our chances if we’re playing that one
at home,” Farrar said.

Added O'Connell, “If Hopkins had come to
us, we would have beat ‘em. At Wilson Field,
that comeback doesn’t happen”

What happened, though, was an 11-10
Hopkins victory that ended the season for Wash-
ington & Lee.

Tremendous defensivework by Farrar and
Rob Lindsey enabled W&L to take a 10-7 lead
into the fourth-quarter, but the Blue Jays con-
trolled faceoffs and were aided by three penal-
ties called in their favor. The winning goal
came with just 1:50 remaining.

“If we had gotten into overtime,” said Farrar,
“there’s no question in my mind we would’ve
won.”

Washington & Lee’s best assemblage of

    

4&4--H4-74

Eﬁlljliltlllltiliitilg Ellltteit at tlgr
 Eiattirtt tttttt Qrttttmz

Fri., May 13 - Third. Ear
Sat, May 14 - Ben Arthur
;{“““l‘"15I”}“"' T11urs., May 19 - Radar Rose

1 X X_H X I K K K I X K K X X X K K K K I X K K
-. . - .

ax ' ‘ ‘W,/“» "

;'PﬁnT"'-‘E

DOORS
8:

XXXKXXXI

Hours

 . 463-7969

 

talent ever was not rewarded with the national
title, eventually won by Hopkins, but they were
plentifully rewarded with post-season honors.

Emmet was named National Coach of the
Year for an unprecedented third straight‘ time,
Chadwick received the C. Markland Kelley
award as the country’s top goalie, and seven
Generals were named All-Americans. Bauer,
Chadwick, and Lichtfuss were among the
nation's eleven First Team All-Americans.

This year, Lichtfuss joined Bauer and
Chadwick in the Lacrosse Hall of Fame.

The amount of individual awards bestowed
on members of the ’74 Generals makes all the
more impressive how cohesive the team played
on the ﬁeld.

“The guys knew what had to be done,” said
O'Connell. “Egos didn’t get in the way of each
other.”

Farrar recalled how close the players were to
each other. While students were headed south
for spring break, he remembered, the team was
traveling north together for games.

“Those teams [’73 and ’74] were able to
create a chemistry that caused people to be
very, very close. We had a very tight team.”

In the twenty years since the Generals de-
manded and captured the attention of the na-
tional scene, W&L has retained a high-quality
lacrosse reputation. Farrar, though, feels that
1974 was the “high-water mark” for W&L
lacrosse, and the contrary is hard to argue.

Washington & Lee has reached the semiﬁ-
nals once in both the Division I and Division III
Tournaments since that season, but has never
chased the national title quite like 1974.

“We believed in Jack Emmer,” said Farrar
of his team, “and he believed we could do it.”

When O'Connell looks back at his time at
Washington & Lee, the football champion-
ships, the basketball titles, even the 1988 men's
tennis national championship, all don’t quite
compare with the team he helped take to as high
as the number-two ranking. This team was
different.

“I don’t think I’ve seen anything that’s out-
done that team.”

Ion-Fri!-ssatti-Noon

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIo'

Marshallville, Georgia-:
A Peach of a Town! :

Women’s Tennis

The Washington and Lee women’s ten-
nis team responded to their first loss of the
season by coming back to defeat the Univer-
sity of Califonia at Santa Cruz 6-3 in thier
next match.

The previous match saw the Generals
lose to Williams College by the score of 5-3.
The Generals gave Williams all they could
handle, as the match was tied at three apiece
following the singles competition. Wil-
liams then took both doubles matches to win
the contest.

In the win over UCSC, junior Marilyn
Bakerwon her 26th match of the year, besting
the school record for wins in a season of 25.
The old mark had stood since 1991. Baker
has amassed a 67-10 record in her three
years on the W&L team.

The Generals took ﬁve of the six singles
matches against UCSC to clinch the contest.
Ayers and Baker added to the total by chalk-
ing up their 20th win as a team on the year in
the doubles competition.

With the win, the Generals move to 22-1
on the year. The team season comes to a
close today with a match against Emory for
ﬁfth place in the tournament. Ayers and
Baker begin play in the individual tourna-
ment on Saturday.

Women’s Lax

Five W&L players earned All—Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference honors in the
most recent selection.

Senior midﬁelder Angie Carrington and
Junior defense Carrie Niederer were selected
to the ﬁrst team all-conference while juniors
Lindsay Coleman, Dana Cornell, and Nicole
Ripken were placed on the second team.

 

Ripken’s selection was all the more
impresive considering the W&L junior only
played in nine games on the season due to
surgery to remove a brain tumor.

In those nine contests, the Generals’ Star
scored 19 goals and 6 assists to ﬁnish the year
as the team’s third leading scorer.

Coleman was W&L’s leading scorer on the

 

year with 35 goals and 12 assists for 47 points.
Cornell contributed 10 goals and three as-
sists from the defensive wing position

Men’s Tennis

Senior Robby MacNaughton will com-
petein the NCAA Division III men’s tennis
championships in California later this
month. .

The senior compiled a 14-9 record as the
number one player on the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference champion Generals.
MacNaughton is ranked 15th in the country
by the most recent polls.

The trip is not an unfamiliar one for the
senior. This year marks the third appear-
ance for MacNaughton in NCAA single!
play. He, along with Peter Hammond, has
also been selected as an alternate to com-
pete in the doubles draw.

Golf

The period of anticipation has ended for
the Washington and Lee golf team.

The Generals were notiﬁed on Wednes-
day that they had not been selected to play
in the NCAA Division III Championships.

With the news, the W&L team closes
the book on a successful 32-9 campaign
that ended in an Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championship for the team.

 

   

THE SAB PRESENTS .-

‘K

ALUMNI WEEKEND CONCERT

§§&K\\;;\E\‘i€:

WITH SPECIAL GU

V75 T5

The mack Creek Band

REE
OPEN AT
30

IXHIXIII

FRIDAY, MAY |3TH AT THE PAVILION
DMl@$lON

BEER   GARDEN :
ID REQUIRED

For Sale
Two dorm—sized refrigerators,‘
a computer cart and other
dorm necessities: Everything is
in excellent condition. For
more information Call Fran at
462-41 03

‘XXIII

  
   
   
  
  
  
  



a 
u‘.

4

I

4!

It
If

4

0 us
4

I‘.

1

'2

1

I;

I

'1
o .2
4'

'3

It

i

1. 
!

it

I l
".

3

-l

-.

- 1
'1

I‘.

"2

it

0 av‘.
‘V.

'5

'1

9.

'3

-I
‘ -1
It

3

".

-9'

l
t '1?
K
‘.
I
1
'1.
s
'15
5 If
.4
4
[i
I
I
an I
I
I‘.
id
''§

 
  
    
 
  
   
   
   
     
       

, Iﬁyng-tum Phi, May 13, 1994  A 1aAag 11
1  T   GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

1 1 4     Standings as of 05/13/94 V
 I ‘ ' '4 _. 4 A 1 A 1 Baseball Women’s Lacrosse
it ‘A _  A M h M ii A ‘ _ - S -wPlayer Avg HR RBI Player G A

Graig Fantuzzi .482 0 12 Lindsay Coleman 12
Bates Brown .387 1 15 Angie Carrington
19

35
3 41
- . .,._.;« \\\iiiii\\\\\i\\\i\ti\"‘:z_;i;. 1 Matt Ermigiotti .316 3 Nicole Ripken 19
. REDUCED PRlC,ES___ .     Cinnicmgm 17
V STATE FA|R 7  1 ' ‘ . ‘  Pitching Leaders Erika Snyder 16
:!i;i" 1  ' ‘I’ i » .
 . .9." ‘  ~ ' _Player W-L ERA '
cam DOGS  W .-  Ilirmciigiotti  5.40 Goaltendrns
.1.-.=. ‘ a ee y -
4  =.‘-7 i A Brett Hartman 2-4

Player SV GA
Sarah Smith 1 19 85
Brooke Glenn 67 42

oz. "" i  ' Men’s Lacrosse
Scoring Leaders
Player G A
_  . .. . f ,. Colin Higgins 24 21 Singles Leaders
Q  , 4 ."" .. . S ' — ,, Ty Tydings 17 22
»   ~ ‘ . ~ ‘  ‘ Russell Croft 18 16 Play“ W
7
9

Women’s Tennis

Scott Mackley 25 rlﬁglxgggker 

K / ‘  :T."‘ . \
H S V  " '  - A Ande Jenkins 28 Shelley Sunderrnan 19

'  i ' \'-"-71 ' - Helen Chandler 17
y P SV G A Svq Anna O’Connor 22
layer 109  58% Cathy Gartin 9

Doug Grubner
David Jones 47 33 .588 ”°“b1¢s Leaders

Go" Dickinson—O’Connor 9
Ayers-Baker 20
Leaders Sunderrnan-Chandler 14

cuuosuuur

Pearce Smithwick 3 . T68!!! R¢¢0l‘d8

B W11‘ 9 .
 .   I"    Tgmniylgﬁfﬂey 5 _ Women’s Tennis 22
" SPINACH ........ .. 10 02. Jimmy K1111 10 _ Men’s Track 11

Gam Mattingly 10 . €v°gIfncn,s Track 32

CUT
T’ _  Men’s Lacrosse,
 -    Menvs Tennis — Women’s Lacrosse
MIX

. Men’s Tennis
"""""""" " 70 OZ‘ Singles Leaders Baseball

 %ERli\PEFRUI'.|' 2/ Player W‘
 d """ '  Robby MacNaughton 14 Men’s Tennis

Chris MacNaughton 11 T Doubles Leaders

/1 S i ’ I  is .9’: Pete Hammond 12

'1 R  ‘  . ‘P.-2:9’ David Schweppe 12 Hammond-R; MacNaughton 13 9
 A   Derek Schulze 13 Horen-Schweppe 9 6
1 9 Andy Horen 8 C. MacNaughton-Schulze 9 8
i .

E .tXXXX::XXXXX'Z:IXXXX:"X

LOWPRICES .   
KLEENEX   cake on ;~ f
FACIAL TISSUE DIET COKE .:

or
  Alumni Weekend
 99  99    

Q ‘Q   3: . . . . . .

wamvspecm }, Suits 1- Sportcoats — 20% Off

HIGHLAND CREST p" RQA51-Ep 1‘ All Shorts - 20% Off
_ |¢E ¢REAM   A I‘ (Duckheads Included)

HAM
39   Civil War Ties —

'$iil'.: LB. sl(l)c|;.-[rue j_ American Flag Battle Ties
     5- Belts & Key Chains
; BUY ONE GET ONE FREE SALE ;~ Sun-Stopper Hats

I '3 UY ONE 5.5-6 OZ. BAG BUY ONE 20 OZ. BOX

1. AGLE THINS KE|.I.OGG'S RAISIN _ ,
HIPS err om:  BRAN on our  ’- Ladles Dept. Sprmg & Summer

uv our 16 oz. PKG. ME guy cm; 15 oz. aox -   %  ;-
  ORMEI. |.iG|'iT 8: “AN KEI.l0GG'5 RICE 3 ‘ :3
in“ FREE The College Town Shop

3 ran-
~O\lUa«b\O

-'-3-«aw-*

«.4:

 BANKS GET ONE KRISPIESGH ONE
UY ONE 4 CT. BOX SELECTED VARIETIES guy om 13 oz p|(G,
111 West Nelson Street
Founded 1926

 we in" FREE iitit3‘tt8§i“E.‘.ﬁE FREE

Prices Effech've....Throu 11 Ma 17 1994 , _ --
Pricoensl In This Ad Eiieﬁtive Wednesday, May li ThroLlgi1ST(1)l|<<eisc]ig)g3E3);Si7 1994 ¥iourLe{<ington Store . - Master Charge - VISA - UPS Shlpplng 

y.We Reserve e Right To Limit Quantities. None We Gladiy Accept tederot Food Stémps.

  
 

Last Week:

MLax—W&L 12, VMI 10
WTennis— Williams 5, W&L 3
W&L 6, UCSC 3
(NCAA Team Competition)

PAGE 12

By Ki-zmi GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

  

From the very beginning of
the 1974 season, this team was

going to be different. It was spe-

’ cial.

The players knew it. The

coaches knew it.

How many others did is ques-

tionable, and the odds are that

very few people in college la-

crosse thought that Virginia ’s tiny

Washington & Lee University

was capable of competing for a
national championship.

But compete, they did, forc-

ing the “big boys” of Navy, Johns
Hopkins, and Maryland to take

serious this new threat from the

Shenendoah.

In 1973, Washington & Lee’s
Generals marched perfect
through the regular season, accu-
mulating a 13-0 record against
the likes of Princeton, Towson
State, Virginia, and North Caro-
lina.

Ranked fourth in the nation,
the upstart Generals downed
Navy in overtime at Wilson Field
for the school ’s ﬁrst NCAA Tour-
nament victory.

Though they fell to the even-
tual champion Terrapins of Mary-
land in the semiﬁnals, a strong
returning class ensured Wash-
ington & Lee would remain on
the national scene.

F rom the beginning, this team
knew things would be different.
Practices for teams of coach J ack
Emmer were dominated by con-
ditioning. Sometimes 40 minutes
of a two-hour practice would
consist of sprints.

Assistant coach Chuck
O’Connell, now a Washington &
Lee assistant athletic director,
remembers one of the ﬁrst prac-
tices of ’74 as being a turning
point for the players.

Just completing an arduous
series of exercises consisting of

  
 
 

  
 
   
 

    
   
 
   
      
  
    
     
     
  
 
   
   
     
  
   
    
    
  
      

  

  

  
  
  

   
 

  

 
 
   
 

  
   

 
  
    

  
    
   
    
  
    
     
    
      

 
 

3

‘‘Indian sprints” and “suicides,”
the players thought their day was
done. Not so fast, thought Em-
mer, as he directed his tired troops
into another set of sprints.

“That day,” said O’Connell,
“they realized what they were
going to have to do.”

Emmer had come to W&L
prior to the ’73 season from
Cortland State, a powerful Divi-
sion III program where Emmer
had earned national Coach of the
Year honors in ’72.

“St. Jack’s” W&L squads
would record 108 wins and re-
ceive seven NCAA Tournament
bids during his eleven year ten-
ure.

However, Emmer, alone, did
not bring W&L to the fore of
college lacrosse.

His predecessor, Dick Szlasa,
deserves considerable recogni-
tion for the accomplishments of
the ’73 and ’74 Generals, as he
had recruited the individual tal-
ent that includednine different
All—Americans in those two sea-
sons.

Jim Farrar, a 2nd-team All-
American defenseman in ’74 and
now W&L’s Director of Alumni
Programs, remembers his father
and Szlasa holding a long talk
one night in Farrar’s Lexington
home in 1972. After Szlasa left,
Farrar’ s father told him the coach
was moving on to Navy.

“[Szlasa] as much as anyone
helped lay the foundation for
those teams in ’73 and ’74,”

Farrar said. “Emmer, though,
took us to a level we had not
imagined we could be taken.”

Through sheer hard work and
discipline, Farrar said, the Gen-
erals knew after the ’73 season

they could be as good as anyone.
There were no doubters in the
lockerroom, though they were
many on the outside.

Despite four returning All-
Americans and a pre-season num-

Ellie ‘ilting-tum ilﬂlii

PORTS

LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS, GOLF, BASEBALL

1974 Lacrosse team set st

were not ready to accept W&L as
a national championship con-
tender. Farrar believes expecta-
tions to improve on their ’73 per-
formance came only from the
team, itself.

“There were not quite so many
expectations from outside as there
were from us,” he said.

In terms of the public’s per-
ception of W&L, O'Connell
thinks Farrar is right.

“We hadn’t won anything on
the national level, yet,” he said.
“People didn’t understand how
good the team could be. The tal-
ent was there, but we were rela-
tively the new kid on the block. I
think we surprised a lot of
people.”

What was not a surprise was
the Generals ﬁrst-game romp
over Morgan State, 16-4. On the
heels of that win, however, W&L
dropped an exhibition game ver-

sus the Mt. Washington Club.
Thus, many lacrosse followers,
includingW&Lfaithful,were not
sure what kind of performance to
expect when the Generals trav-
eled to Annapolis in late March
to take on Szlasa’s fourth-ranked
Navy.

Emmer’s conditioning pro-
gram paid dividends as the Gen-

lerals out hustled and outlasted

the Midshipmen, an obviously -classic‘ _ _
we11-condiiioned group of am. the top of the national lacrosse were in attendance for the tele-
1ete5_ scene. vised contest on what was mg.

Down a goal in the third pe-
riod, W&L scored the next ﬁve
to take command of the game. To
spectators, it was obvious that
the Generals were in better physi-
cal shape than their Academy
counterparts, who were held
scoreless for a 21-minute sec-
ond-half stretch.

“Jack Emmer made sure we
would not be outrun by any team,”
said Farrar. “We could ﬂat out
run, and proved it in that game.”

With the Generals climbing a
spot to four in the poll, Washing-
ton & Lee was well on its way to

Having cruised by Denison,
Princeton (though it took a sec-
ond-half explosion to do it), C.W.
Post, Duke, and North Carolina,
a showdown was set with third-
ranked Virginia.

In ’73, W&L beat the Wa-
hoos for the first time since 1958,
a game waved off as an upset by
most lacrosse observers. This
time, UVA’s Scott Stadium was
the set of a battle between legiti-
mate national title contenders.

A state-record 10,000 fans,
about 4000 from W&L, as the

 

This Week:

Women’s Tennis— NCAA Div. III
Individual Championships
(O5-14- 05-16)

All—American middie and Lacrosse Hall of Famer Ted Bauer needed jus
nine seconds to give W&L a 1-0 lead versus Johns Hopkins in their ’74 semifin :.

hoos,” said O'Connell.

a 13-11 victory.

andard '

deemed a “perfect” afternoon.
“The game people had focused
on was beating those damn Wa-

Sure enough, the number-4
Generals would take a 10-6 lead
into the fourth quarter en route to

Surrounded by All—American
talent like Ted Bauer, Skip
Lichtfuss, and Dave Warﬁeld,
freshman Jack Dudley turned out
to be the hero, netting three goals.

“That game was a huge deal
because of the rivalry and the
rankings,” Farrar said. “It was a

 
   
    
  
   
    
 
    
   
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
     
       
      
     
      
     
         
           
  
     
   
         
       
         
       
     
        
       
          
     

ber-5 ranking, many observers

Ring-tum Phi happily reported,

File poto

After 31 years, the Generals basketball team will be repre-
sented by a new face on the sidelines as head coach Verne
Canfield calls it quits.

Canfield resigns

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

For the first time in 31 years, the
Washington and Lee men’s basketball
team will have a new head coach.

Following the coming 1994-1995
campaign, head coach Verne Canﬁeld
is retiring as the Generals’ head men’s
basketball coach. Canﬁeld will re-
main at the school as an associate
professor of physical education and as
intramural director. .

Through 30 years of coaching the
General’s front man has accumulated
450 wins against 322 defeats. In-
cluded in the success story are ﬁve
twenty win seasons and eight confer-
ence championships, the last coming
in'1980.

Upon his arrival as head coach in
1964, Canﬁeld took over a team that
had endured seven consecutive losing
seasons. In his inaugural campaign,

the new coach suffered a dismal 2-17
mark. Within three years, however,
Canﬁeld had posted the school’s ﬁrst
twenty win seasons.

During his career, the coach has
been named Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Coach of the Year three
times and NCAA Division III Regional
Coach of the year three times.

Canﬁeld has also served as chair-
man of the ODAC men’s basketball
committee. He is also on the NCAA
Division III regional advisory commit-
tee for rankings and All-America vot-
mg.

The National Association of Bas-
ketball Coaches has awarded Canﬁeld
with the Award of Merit and Award of
Honor.

No replacement has been named as
yet for the veteran coach. In his last
four seasons, Canﬁeld has suffered los-
ing records with his last 20 win year
coming in 1988-89.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Scoreboard update: Lee-6, Jack-
son-1.

Washington & Lee’s men’s la-
crosse team concluded the 1994 sea-
son on a winning note, beating Vir-
ginia Military in the seventh annual
Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic by the
closest margin in ﬁve years, 12-10.

Washington & Lee (9-5) has now
won the last six cross-town Classics.
The one-sidedness of recent Lee-
Jacksons and the early threat of rain
were likely reasons the game was wit-
nessed by just 1500 fans, half of last
year’s attendance.

The mixed crowd of VMI and W&L
supporters, though, were treated to
the most exciting battle between the
Lexington rivals since W&L’s 1989
10-9 overtime win at VMl’s Alumni
Memorial Field.

“It was a shame anyone had to lose
it,” said VMI coach Doug Bartlett.
“Both teams played very well.”

Bartlett’s Keydets (6-7) jumped
ahead early on mid fielder John
Ripley’s goal four minutes into play.
David Belﬁore made it 2-0 51 seconds
later.

Last year, the Generals hit the back
of VMl’s net nine times before the
first Keydet goal. Saturday, the
Keydets let it be known early on that
this year’s game would be a much
tougher battle for the team that has
dominated the series.

“It’s a no-win situation for us,”
said Generals’ coach Jim Stagnitta.
“We’re expected to win.”

Helped by two of sophomore Ande
Jenkins’ four goals, the Generals
fought back and the ﬁrst quarter of
play ended with the teams knotted at
4-4.

Adefense-dominated second-quar-
ter concluded with W&L taking a 6-5
lead into the lockerroom. One of the
VMI heroes to that point was sopho-
more goalie Ryan Olson, who several
times had stopped point-blank W&L
shots.

“He played well,” Bartlett said.
“He’s done a good job for us all year.”

After the Keydets managed a third-
quarter tie at seven, junior Scott
Mackley fed Jenkins on a two—man
extra-man opportunity for the first of
four straight Generals’ goals, three
coming in the opening minutes of the
ﬁnal period.

“The experienced kids took over,”
said Stagnitta. “[Colin] Higgins,
Duncan [Slidell], Andy Dutton, and,

Lee-Jackson goes to W&L ,

  
  
     
   
   
     
    
        
   
 
    

C
J

MAY 13, 1’

File photo

 
    
       
 

    
 
   

hell of a game. It was reagexc

71

     
     
   
  

Alums around the nation c
ebrated the win over their are
rival as the Generals climbed
the number-3 ranking. Only
pair of College Division power
Towson State and Cortland Sta
seemed to stand betweer9W&'
and their second straig
undefeated regular season.

Towson State proved to I
the best team the Generals wou
face in the regular season. Wfi
excellent ball-handlers and ti
mendous speed, Towsoritrad

iv See LAX, page 10

   
     

 
 
 
  

   
     
 

 
 
   
   

 
    
   
 

  
 

 

E

Fiaqsht

   

Since losing the series opener to VMI, the General ha
taken the last six Lee-Jackson lacrosse games. This ye
contest was the closest in five years.

of course, Jenkins.”

At that point, the game seemed to
mirror many previous Lee-Jackson
Classics--close for 40 minutes, then
dominated by the Generals. This time,
VMI was not about to fold.

Trailing 12-8 following a Higgins
goal with 5:39 to play, VMI notched

. the next two.

When Joe Brockman beat W&L
freshman goalie Doug Gubner with
1:59 left to play, the Keydets were
within two and the crowd could sense
a great ﬁnish.

Itwas not to be, though, as the W&L
defense held off a VMI extra-man op-
portunity with a minute-and-a-half to
go and then controlled the ball until the
end.

“I had confidence we were going to
stop them [on the extra-man opportu-
nity],” Stagnitta said. ‘‘In those situa-
tions, I always think we’re going to
win.”

Stagnitta, who earned his 50th win
in his ﬁve season as W&L coach with
the victory, felt the Generals were not
at their best following the previous
week’s overtime loss to Washington
College, a defeat that kept W&L out of

the NCAA Tournament.

“I think we were a little ﬂat, ..
VMI is a much improved tea ,”
said. “We played in spurts and ere I
consistent for four quarters.”

Washington & Lee ﬁnishes the ’
season with their ﬁfth straight year
at least nine wins and a top 16 rank’
under Stagnitta. The ﬁnal USILA -
placed the Generals llth.

With Higgins and back-urﬁgo.
David Jonestheonly seniors on W& '
roster, Stagnitta is looking forwarc
next year.

“Saturday was the last time I’ll -
we’re a young team,” he said. “'
days of being a young, inexperient
team are over.” 0

While the Generals had to rep]
nine of last year’s starters this sea s
Higgins (24 goals, 21 assists) will
the lone starter leaving the team.

With a strong incoming fresh
class on the way, the Generals are
ready making post season plnns
’95

  

   
 
  
  

  

  

  

  

 
 
  

  
    

 
 

  

“We’re excited [about next seaso «
said Stagnitta. “Afterthe [VMI] ga
the kids immediately started point‘
to next year.”

  

  

  

   

