 

 
   
    

Weekend Weather

‘riday: 80 percent chance of rain
dfreezingirain, low 35

turday: Scattered showers,
urries, breezy, mid~30S

imday: Mostly sunny, mid—20s

  

V/77

  The Year in Review
W&Life takes a look at

 

  

K .

., l

‘MEN'S iioors lllTSi
ll0T STliEAlt

he ﬂing-tum Iﬂlii

  

I <4’

- 0

VOLUME 93, NO. 14

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

Baby, It’s Cold Outside

. .
Everyone had to shovel something this week. Rain tonight could turn into snow and cause dangerous driving
conditions. Temperatures all weekend will keep the roads and sidewalks icy.

File Photo

Peek appeal delayed

Committee to

By N \\.m l’x\\l.(Jv|(

. P/ll Managiiig liditoi‘

llhrce moiitlis. two weeks and still wait-

mg

l'hat‘s how long Assistant Professor of
ltnglish Dcmaree (I Peck has been waiting
for her appeal to be heard by the Prcsident’s
Advisory (fommittee. Peck filed an appeal
challenging the English department’s deci-
sion to not renew her contract on Sept. 24.

“I submitted my petition in late Septem-
ber and I still haven’t heard anything from
the Advisory (‘ommittee," Peck said. “This
entire process has been marred by secrecy
and obfuscation."

Pcckwhojoined the faculty in l988as an
instructor in English, began a four—year pro-
bationary period fora tenure track position in
the department the following fall. Candi-

 

 

dates for a tenured position must complete a
six-year probationary period before being
considered for tenure. Peck would have been
considered fora tenured position in 1994-95.

However on May l4, i993, the eight ten-
ured meinbers of the English department
informed Peck oftheir decision to not renew
her contract after evaluating a portfolio of
materials which included studentevaluations,
reviews by faculty who had visited her class,
letters solicited by the department from all
her former students as well as three articles
she has had published and several chapters
from her book on Willa Cather.

“They have tried to make an issue of my
teaching abilities,” Peck said. “Yet my rec-
ommendations and course evaluations were
consistently good.”

Peck decided to file the appeal after learn-
ing the American Association of University
Professors [the AAUP] stipulates a commit-

: 2-. 

4'

  

 

, Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-mm Phi"
Professor Demaree Peck awaits the decision of the President’s Advisory

Committee, which is scheduled to issue a report within three weeks.
0

issue report in a few weeks

tee composed of elected faculty members
should hear cases in which a “faculty mem-
ber challenges negative decisions because of
inadequate consideration or more substan-
tial considerations such as discrimination or
denial ofacademic freedom.” The President’s
Advisory Committee was chosen since Wash-
ington and Lee does not have such a standing
committee and is the only W&L committee
which resembles the one recommended.

The President’s Advisory Committee,
which is composed of six elected faculty
members and three deans, did not actually
read the petition until after they were for-
mally charged by President Wilson to hear
the appeal. The three deans will not take part
in deciding the appeal. Before deliberations
could begin, a sixth member had to be elected
to replace Bruce H. Herrick, professor of
economics, who is on leave. The election,
which was originally slated for the first fac-
ulty meeting in October, was postponed until
November when Professor Robert A. Strong
was elected.

While waiting to hear from the Advisory
Committee, Peck filed a discrimination
charge against the university with the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission in
early November. Under EEOC guidelines,
charges must be filed within 180 days ofthc
grievance’s occurrence. The university re-
ceived a copy of her formal charge from the
EEOC which will conduct an investigation
into the allegation.

“I would have preferred to resolve the
issue internally, but I had no confidence that
the issue would be resolved,” Peck said.
“After the sixth member was elected, I ex-
pected to hear from the Advisory Committee
about some kind of time table, but I still
haven‘t heard anything.”

Because the President’s Advisory Com-

iv See PECK, page 8

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 7, 1994

Howison tries
o halt hazing

By lVIl:l.lSS/\ S/\\NYI‘,R
Phi Staff Writer

Dean of Students David
Howison recently held meetings
with fraternity presidents,pledge
trainers, and pledge class presi-
dents to discuss hazing.

Howison said he is particu-
larly concerned with two aspects
of hazing on campus: activities
involving forced alcohol con-
sumption and those involving
physical abuse of pledges.

“I want to make these a prior-
ity for me this year." he said.

Hazing is outlawed by Vir-
ginia law and the national frater-
nity chaplers. as well as by W&L
rules and by the individual fra-
icriiitics. By 'l‘ucsday’s ll“(‘
meeting, howcvcnonlythree fra-
ternities had submitted the re-
quired hazing agreements, and
many fraternities still had not
submitted the pledge programs
they need to have a formally rec-
ognized pledge program.

“There’s no place for hazing
on this campus.” Howison said.

Sigma Phi Epsilon Pledge
Trainer Ray Peeler said the
administration’s policy could be
in ctiirilrct with that ofthcaluirini.

"in all of the houses, things
used to be a whole lot harder, and
whenthe alumnicome back they
are upset that traditions are up-
set. Andthe alumni mean money
to the university,” he said.

Students admit that hazing is
a tradition of Greek life, and a
tradition on this campus. Junior
Dave Marsh, an indcpendent,said
“Its a tradition that has been
around for a hundred years—it’s
not going to stop.”

Marsh added that hazing was
not an issue in his deciding not to
pledge.

Curt Smith, IFC president,
said Howison's proactive stance
towards hazing is a good thing.

“It will help," he said. “Dean
Atkins and Dean Manning and
the IFC deal with [the hazing
issue] the most. but it will help
the situation”

Howison said the presence of
the pledge class presidents at the
meeting was important. He said
in general the group seemed at-
tentive, although there was not a
lot ofdiscussion.

“I think they appreciate my
perspective.” Howison said.

Many freshman pledges,
when contacted were unwilling

" to answer any questions involv-

ing the issue. Peeler said some
freshmen feel more comfortable
discussing the issue with the ad-
ministration while “others may
want to keep it in the house.”

Peeler said he thought
Howison had based his stance on
pledges and parents of pledges
coming to him with complaints.

“Some people would associ-
ate the [pledge trainer] with the
house and would feel more com-
fortable going to the administra-
tion,” he said.

While hazing is not an issue
exclusive to fraternities, sorority
members were not included in
Howison’s meetings. Howison
said his general impression is
that hazing is more ofa fraternity
tradition, and that the issue is
more immediate for fraternities.
He said, however, that “sorori-
ties are subject to the same regu-
lations as fraternities.”

The administration and the
IFC have penalties for hazing
violations. The council recently
passed new deferred pledgeship
penalties. The punishments for
violating the guidelines increase
in severity depending on the fre-
quency of offense, the most se-

I» See HAZING, page 8 ‘E

Heatley lawsuit
alleges slander

By 'l‘iioMAs Hl:Sl’t)S
I’/ii News lidiior

“Mr. Wheeler is alleged to have circulated a

statement to th
ment with the

A Washington and Lee faculty member asked to

resign by the administration last
another faculty member for alleged
slander.

Nathan Rick Heatley. associate
dean of students and director of ca-
reer development and placement
from I987 to June, I993, filed a
lawsuit in Rockbridge County Cir-
cuit Court in October against W&L
Professor of Accounting Lyn
Wheeler for $()()(),()()(l in total dam-
ages.

In his motion forjudgcment dated
October 20. W93. Heatley alleges
that Wheeler slandered him “by
openly accusing the plaintiff of
sexual misconduct in the perfor-
mance of his job duties.“

$35t).ll(ltl in coinpcnsatory damages and $35(),()()()
in punitive dainages. interest and court costs.

Fall Term Report Card

Chi-O

All Sorority
KKG

Pi Beta Phi
Theta

All Females
Non-Sorority
KA
Jon-Fraternity
PiKA
Lambda Chi
All Students
SAE

Sig Ep
Sigma Chi
Kappa Sig
All Males
Phi Deli

Phi Psi

(Ihi Psi

All Fraternity
FIJI

Pi Phi

Beta

Phi Kap
Sigma Nu
Delt

e effect that Mr. Heatley’s employ-
university was terminated because

of sexual harassment,” said Roberts Moore of

May is suing

 

Heatley

Heatley is asking for

Gentry, Locke, Rakes and Moore of Roanoke, the
firm representing Heatley. “These statements are

highly slanderous and very very
damaging to his reputation and have
caused him a lot of grief and
problems...[Heatley] is a man who
is attempting to obtain employment
in a very sensitive area and forthose
kinds of claims and charges to be
ﬂoating around unsubstantiated are
very damaging.”

Wheeler’s Grounds of Defense,
filed on November 29, i993, states
that Wheeler denied circulating any
such rumors.

One of Wheeler’s lawyers, Tho-
mas P. McPherson of Nelson,
McPherson, Summers and Santos

he See HEATLEY, page 8

2.5

3

3.1

.12

3 3.5

 

 

The Nation

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World  

Israel, PLO to resume talks

 

Israel and the PLO will resume talks negotiating the implemen-
taton of Palestinian autonomy. The talks halted when the two
nations could notagree on the control of crossings between Jordan
and Jericho, and ligypt and Gaza. Both sides accepted as the basis
for continued negotiation agreements reached in Cairo that put the
crossings under" dual control. No date has been announced for the
resumption of talks.

POW gravesites to be excavated

The United States will exliurrie the remains of seven gravesites
in Vietrrarii where American prisoners ofwar are believed buried.
The excavation will begin Thursday and take several weeks,
involving 84 American specialists. According to the Vietnamese,
although the POW’s died in captivity. they had been unable to
account for some because they lost track of burial sites.

 

O’Neill dies of heart attack

Former Speaker of the House Thomas P. “Tip” O’Neill, famous
for his belief that “all politics is local” died Wednesday at 81.

O’Neill died ofa heart attack at Brigham and Women’s Hospital
in Boston, where he had gone for a checkup. O’Neill was famous
for trarisforrriing the House speakership into a powerful position,
frorri which he often criticized President Ronald Reagan. Reagan,
in a statement, called O’Neill “one of our nation’s most distin-
guished legislators.“

Sheen, Peters hired hookers,
says, Hollywood madam

Hollywood Madam Heidi Fleiss has named Charlie Sheen and
Jon Peters as two of the well-known entertainment figures who
hired her high-priced hookers. Fleiss said Sheen often hired a
blonde dressed as a cheerleader who pretended she had a big game
the following day. Sheen had no comment.

Packwood answers allegations

Senator Bob Packwood responded to allegations of sexual
misconduct in his first detailed statement.Gena Hutton, a Packwood
volunteer, claims the Oregon senator grabbed her, kissed her, and
invited her to his hotel room in 1980. Packwood said Tuesday that
Hutton kissed him the next day and on numerous other occasions.
llutton says she does not remember kissing Packwood.

Princeton students galavant
nude in winter weather

What do America's lvy-Leaguers do when the weather turns
freezing and snow starts falling‘? They get naked. Wearing only
shoes, socks, hats, and gloves, some 300 Princeton students ran
across the campus, celebrating the first snowfall in what has come
to be known as the Nude Olympics. Two students later visited the
campus clinic, one for scraped knees obtained during the scramble,
and the other for intoxication.

Citadel must admit Women

The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals Wednesday denied the
Citadel ’s request for a rehearing of its order requiring the military

academy to admit women. Starting next week, Shannon Faulkner, ~

an 18-year-old South Carolinian, can legally attend classes at the
Citadel. one of the two remaining all male state—funded military
colleges in the nation. A district judge ruled last August that
liaulkner could attend classes, btrt must abstain from military
training, while her law-suit contesting the college‘s all—male
adriiissioris policy is heard. Faulkner will be the first female cadet
at the Citadel in 151 years.

Government considers lifting
ban on marijuana as medication

The Clinton Administration is considering lifting the ban on the
use of marijuana for medicinal purposes. In 1976, the government
allowed those with painful or terminal diseases who had not found
relief in legal medications to apply to the Food and Drug Admin-
istration for permission to use marijuana. Advocates cite the
drug’s ability to ease nausea and pain and promote appetites as
beneficial to AIDS or cancer patients. The program ended in 1992
when officials in the Bush administration said marijuana could do
more harm than good for those patients.

The State

  Amnesty claims signs are moral

According to Amnesty International, the anti—death penalty ads
it is placing on Virginia buses are not political in nature, but moral.
Directors of Pentran, the area’s public bus service, did not agree to
reject the ads. Those opposed to the ads cited the company’s policy
about not running ads concerning political issues. The ad reads:
“OOPS. In the United States 139 innocent people have been
sentenced to death. Abolish capital punishment.” The number is
based on a 1987 study published in the Stanford Law Review.
According to the study, of those convicted from 1900 through
1985, 22 people were executed and later proven innocent.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is edited by Emily Baker.

 

Th

 

  

0
eﬂin -umP iJanua 71994

Robertson gives scholarship

By BUNNY WoNc.
Phi Staff Writer

In 1960, Marion G. “Pat” Robertson
gave to television his Christian Broad-
casting Network. This year, he gave
Washington and Lee $324,000.

Robertson, who graduated from
W&L in 1950, gave the money in
memory of his father and mother. the
Honorable A. Willis Robertson and

Gladys Churchill Willis Robertson. A.
Willis Robertson was a U.S. "senator
for the Commonwealth of Virginia.
"I feel very honored to be able to
establish an honor scholarship at Wash-
ington and Lee in memory ofmy mother
and father,” Robertson said. “They
were great people and wonderful par-
ents, and they influenced so many
lives—and none more than mine.”
According to William Paxton, as-
sistant directorof major gifts, Robertson

had “an interest in creating a scholar-
ship” for about a year. -

Besides honoring his father, the
gift was also given to attract prospec-
tive W&L students.

The Robertson Honor Scholarship
will be given to incoming freshmen
with high academic, public service,
and leadership achievements, along
with excellent character.

“A gift of this magnitude will
brighten the education and lives of

students for generations to come,” said
Farris Hotchkiss, vice president for
university relations.

The scholarship will pay for four
years of tuition with an additional sti-
pend included for living costs, gro-
vided the student recipient maintains a

satisfactory academic and personal

record.

Born in Lexington, Robertson now

lives in Virginia Beach. He founded
Regent University in 1977.

GHRC focuses on sorority suites.

File Photo

The Gaines Hall Revitalization Committee has been examining
ways to make Gaines Hall more attractive as a housing option.

No MTV, but Lip Synch goes on

By LOURRAINE TI(iAs
Phi Staff Writer-

The Gaines Hall Revitalization
Committee has recommended a pro-
posal for lounges in Gaines.

The committee is proposing the cre-
ation of a lounge for each of the four
sororities and the Women’s Forum that
would act as a meeting room, office
and storage facility. "The organizations
could usetheloungesinstead ofreserv-
ing rooms in academic buildings or the
University Center.

Laura Clark, a GHRC member, cited
an advantage of the lounges.

“Sororities won’t have to move
around,” she said. "[lt will] give them
a sense of permanence,”

According to David Howison. dean
of students, the loft suites in Gaines
were chosen for the lounges. Howison
said these rooms may be renovated at a

moderate cost and, if necessary, may ”

easily be converted back.

According to Howison, the real loss
of space in Gaines will be modest.
Housing for students will be reduced
by 30 spaces. Since Gaines has not
been full since its construction. the
occupancy number has been lowered
over the years. Many doubles were

convened to singles. Afterthe renova-
tion, the original occupancy numbw of
200 occupants will return as next year’s
occupancy goal. 5

Howison believes freshman women
are the committee’s priority. Accord-
ing to Howison, half of the freshman
women last year had signed up for off-
campus housing before Decem er.
According to Howison, this year is
different, as women are waiting longer
to decide where to live.

Howison saiditis“greatthatthey’re
waiting to decide” and that each fresh-
man woman “should at least go through
Rush before deciding where to live.”

Howison emphasizedthatthereQvill
be no specific areas reserved for groups
in the Gaines suites. Gaines will “main—
tain a coed character with a focus on
women’s organizations,” he said.

All current Gaines residents are
guaranteed priority housing for next
year. ‘ I

The committee is also discussing,
but has not ﬁnalized, a GHQ meal
option in the evening for Gaines resi-
dents and expansion of kitchen facili-
ties in the building. All changes must
be approved by the Board of Trustees.

Howison said he remains “Cau-
tiously optimistic” about the
committee’s plans. ‘

By MICHAEL HEwr.Err
Phi Staff Writer

Don’t have anything to do on a Friday night?
Desperately seeking an aversion to a dull night of
studying? Well, the 8th annual SAMS/ RARA Lip
Synch Contest will be held on January 21 at 9 p.m. in
the Pavilion and will be hostedby juniors John
rnmer and Drew D_én.b9Ir’  ‘

Students Against Multiple  Beth-

Provaiiiziania said the contest helps to raise money for
multiple sclerosis. She said last year some of the
money was also given to the Rockbridge Area Relief
Organization to help repair the new food bank.

Gerald Darrell, faculty sponsor and director of
food services, said the lip synch raised $3800 last
year and $3400 the year before. Lawson Brice, ‘95.
who is in charge of recruiting acts, said the goal this
year is $4000.

ln the past, MTV has worked with SAMS, but

Campaignclosing
in on $127 million
donation goal

By JAY WHITE
Phi’Staff Writer

soliciting donations from the alumni
and the public.
The other major part of the

Provanzana said that this year, MTV chose to not be
involved.

“l don’t think that MTV had the response from
schools they wanted to have in the last few years,”
said Provanzana.

Provanzana said any group who wants to partici-
pate can sign up in front of the Co-op from December
12 to December 20. She said there will be a charge of

$30 and a maximum of six people caiibe in aigroupu
Brice said‘ the number of'acts,,h21.S,.1>l55,¢;tf;"gt(,),Y{lng7
every year. He estimated that about 20 actsiper-_’,

formed last year. Brice said he wants as many stu-
dents and faculty to participate as possible. There
will be no cutoff number. He said he will be sending
out 60 letters to various clubs and organizations,
encouraging them to participate in this year’s event.
Also, he said he has made preliminary contacts with
the faculty in order to encourage them to perform in
the lip synch, but the tendency has been toward
donations rather than actual performances.

For those 21 and over, Provanzana said there will

u

be a Beer Garden set up at the Pavilion. Although she
admits that there is not much she can do about groups

who consume alcohol before arriving at the Pavilion, .

she said all acts that are noticeably intoxicated will
not be allowed to perfonii.

“We encourage people to perform sober,” gaid '

Provanzana.

Admission will be $3 at the door. Last year, there
was a controversy over peoplesneaking" into the lip
synch, but Provanzana-said she f(>feseos~nt9'pioble3iis

"this year. Although nothing has been finalized,‘ she

has been working with security to insure that nothing
goes wrong and noted that sneaking into the‘ lip
synch without paying is a Honor Violation.
Although the choices for faculty judges have not
been ﬁnalized, Provanzana said the criteria the judges
will look for are choreography, actual lip-synching,
costumes, and timing. Provanzana said first and
second prize winners will receive free Fancy Dress
Tickets and a cash prize while third place winners
will receive a smaller cash prize. 9

The Washington and Lee Capital
Campaign fund-raising drive is cur-
rently in its final 18 months, with its
completion date set for June 1995.
Ninety-two mil- ‘
lion of the pro-
posed$127million
have been raised so
far and according
to Farris
Hotchkiss, vice
president for uni-
versity relations,
the numberis right
on target.

“We have to
average raising
about two million
dollarspermonth,"
said Hotchkiss.
Hotchkiss said the
prospects for rais-
ing thc remaining
$35 million were
quite good. With
donations from
alumni, friends of
the University.
parents. and more
selectively. from
foundation_s. the
capitalcampaigns
goal should be re-
alized.

There are two
major parts in the
general structure
of the fundraising
campaign. The ,
first is the annual ftrnd which includes
he workofclassagents.Phone~a—tlions
‘_\ students and alumni. anddircct mail

F ON THE
SHOULDERS
. <>:Gt:AN3‘.s  

ll ll l‘: (1 '\‘\l l’r’\ l ('3 V l‘ UR
l-Vasitingtrin and Lev

fundraising is capital gifts. In this as-
pect of fundraising, area campaigns are
set up across the country to concentrate
primarily on gifts for Washington and
Lee’sendowmentand construction. The
next area campaigns are planned for

February in Florida

and in Houston,
.- Texas later in the
same month.

A final aspect of
< the capital gifts fund
is the activity of the
Board of Trustees, the
campaign staff in
Lexington, and vol-
unteers in holding
conversations with
individuals who may
wish to contribute to
the capitalcampaign.
The remaining
important areas
where the funds real-
ized from the capital
campaign will be uti-
lized are the proposed
multi-million dollar
science building.
completion of schol-
arships and student
financial aid.cndow-
merits for faculty
salaries. and endow-
ments to support the

  

library. _
According to
Hotchkiss. the next
meeting of the
Board of Trustees is
planned for lure
February. The (‘aprtal (ariipaign
Steering (‘ommittec will also meet
at that time.

on of wainer Robins,
_i>a.

Founder’s Day honors Lee,

Honor session planned

By EMILY BAKER
.P/ii Staff Writer

Founder's Day, January 19, traces
its history to the time when Washing-
ton and Lee still called itselfWashing-
ton College.

"The Board ofTrustees. when Rob-
ert E. Lee died, told the college they
ought to in some way recognize him."
said Ken Ruscio.-associate dean ofthe
(‘ommerce School. “They chose Janu-
ary 19. his birthday."

According to Ruscio. Founders
Day provides the opportunity for
“faculty and students [to] review the
traditions of the college."

The keynote speaker this year. A.
Stevens Miles ‘.51. university rector.

will address the topic of the search for I

President Wi|son’s successor and the
future of leadership at W&L.

“We’re planning on having a ses-
sion that c vcning on the Honor‘ Sys-
tem. in conjunction with the White
Book Review Comrnittee." s’aid
Ruscio.

It will be a panel of faculty. stu-
dents. and alumni."

Ruscio added that he hopes stu-
dents will attend the days events.

Miles will also announce the
presidential search committee dur9ng
Founders l)a_\'. according to Wil-
liam Watt. professor of chemistry.

The |'lCV\ members of Omicron
Delta Kappa. a national
ety. are also traditiorially announced
during Founder‘s Day.

0

 

honor soci- '

 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 7, 1994

' brief W&L hislor

J anuag

A man visited the homes of W&L women soliciting pantyhose.
that the purchaser is responsible for preventing underage drinking.
amendment process.

Rockbridge Symphony Orchestra.

Hornets.
George Will addressed Convocation.
Twenty-two men depledged fraternities, a W&L record.
President Wilson celebrated the 10th year of his presidency.

The lFC proposed new procedures and schedules for Rush.

ciation won with.their rendition of “Baby_’s Got Back.”
Generals wrestling placed 5th in the W&L lnvitational.

Februagx

The EC denied the ACLU funding for Winter ’93.

In Talkback, Jane Finney, ’95, and Francie Cohen, ’95, suggested “Pants
down parties” as a possible improvement to the W&L social scene.

Jason and Martin Dunn started organizing the Preston Society to improve
W&L-VMl relations.

Generals swimming stroked to a 7 - 0 record
Championship.

Students decorated campus with posters and staged a sit—in in front of Payne
Hall to protest the English Department decision not to grant tenure for English
instructor John Lynch.

Sharks pool hall opened.

Bob Tompkins wins EC President. Jimmy Kull wins -Vice President and
Ashby Hackney wins Secretary.

Former Planned Parenthood Federation President Faye Wattleton delivers a
pro-choice message in Lee Chapel as part of Black History Month.

New dorm phone system announced allowing students to access University
computing resources.

Filming of The Foreign Student was officially announced at W&L.

Generals swimmers Rebekah Prince. Claire Dudley, Craig Sears, Andrew
Pearson and John Rowe qualified for NCAA National Meet.

and headed for the NCAA

Photo by Bethany'Smith. The Rirzg—tum Phi’
President Wilson accepts a $25,000 check during Homecoming.

  

Playfair encouraged
O



J ‘r r  _  _ _ File Photo
Freshman bonding in the Pavilion. «

Sep tember

Freshman arrived on campus and attend Playfair.

Watson Pavilion opened.

Members of Phi Delta Theta and VMl cadets brawled.

President Wilson announceed his retirement in June of 1995.

W&L students wounded in racially motivated assault.

U.S. News and World Report ranked W&L 20th in the National Liberal Art

College category.
They Might Be Giants played the Pavilion.

d

*Qiiiiiiiitiifiiiiiiiiiiiititiiii i

T ‘I/l/c’7’Li e

ABC began requiring purchasers of kegs to register their location and states
The EC created a committee to review the Honor System and White Book
Alexei Gulyanitsky, a Ukrainian conductor performed with the University-

Men’s Basketball broke seven game losing streak by swatting the Lynchburg

The EC scheduled private, closed meetings to discuss White Book revisions.

Fourty students crashed the Lip Synch contest. The Minority Student Asso-

October

' File Photo‘
Assistant Professor of English Demaree Peck ﬁled an appeal requesting a The Phi D9" h0USe 33V,V its Share Of attention dU"in9 1993-
.review‘ofthe English Department’s May decision to terminate her contract. ‘ . .
Three W&L students’ ears were burglarized by thieves.
Josephine Schaeffer won at the NCAA State Division ll — lll Championship
cross country meet.
The Ring-tum Phi defeated The Trident 18 — l in Dean Howison’s Bocci
Tournament.
The Connells and Cracker played Homecoming Weekend.
. Heather Aussiker was crowned 1993 Homecoming Queen.
Thirty-Eighter Alligators donated $25.()00 to W&L during the halftime
Homecoming Ceremony. '
EC Vice President Jimmy Kull unsuccessfully moved to cut the Student
Bar Association by $l3.()0().
FBI agents arrived at VMl to investigate alleged racial threats
Six rushees were hurt on Tear Night as 340 men pledged fraternities.
Phi Delt members smeared chocolate syrup. shaving cream. and cereal
‘throughout their kitchen and dining room. SAC put Phi Delt on Critical
Probation. .
The Mozart Orchestra of Hamburg played at Lenfest Center.
Men’s Soccer pummels Guilford to break 21-1 game losing streak.
The EC heard the first report of the White Book Review Committee.
Alvin Townley was elected Freshman Class President. Sasha Hartman was

elected Vice President. and Marcus Rayner was elected EC Representative.
0

Photos cine stories
compiteb 69
David \\7it'mington
cm6_

Etlicm J\rupp

Phi Features Editors ’

 

November

to

Several students lied to enter a Halloween party at Zollman’s.

The 'lFC votes to pass deferred pledgeship policies to place restrictions on
pledge activities. '

Women’s soccer loses to Roanoke in ODAC Semi-Finals to finish with a 6-
1-1 record. '

Tom Mason set a W&L record with 5 touchdowns in a single game against
B‘ridgewater in Generals first win of the season.

The Preston Society sponsored the first ever W&L and VMl Mixer at
Zollman’s featuring Lost in the Supermarket.

Water Polo defeated John Hopkins towin second straight title at Eastern
Division lll Championship. _ _ _

Dean of Students David Howison hosted talks to assess minority experience
at W&L. _

in Talkback, sieve wasscr. ‘Q5. said he plans to spend Thanksgiving Break
“Shooting heroin and watching a lot of River Phoenix movies.”

Josephine Schaeffer continued her undefeated streak with the best time in the
nation for cross country and headed to the Division lll National Championship.

0..
as

    
    

Men’s lacrosse earned its third trip to the NCAA Division Ill Tournament in W&L history.

PAGE 3

  of 1993

      

' oto J Okenfels

They Might Be Giants invaded the Pavilion last September.

March

Madelaine White. ‘)6. revealed her expectations of Fancy Dress as
“Drunkenness. gluttony. and debauchery,” in Talkback. J

Women’s Lacrosse spanked the Guilford Quakers 20 — 6.

Five hundred people showed up for an extras casting call for The Foreign
Studem.

Julian Lloyd Webber and the Reduced Shakespeare Companyappeared
at the Lenfest Center.

The EC approves a ballot for constitutional amendments.

/\bllZ;/.2tl'(l dumped l 7 inches ofsnow on Lexington. stranding prospectives
for two extra days.

Apr'l

Law Students Jay Sterne and Shelley Walters fell victim to theft in Law
Library

Tl‘-.-3 ¥?..'tven and (‘row ii restaurant and pub geared up for opening.

LA Police Chief Darryl Gates and ACLU National President Nadine
Strossen debated in Lee Chapel.

The EC canceled the closed White Book retreat. ‘

The ll-'(‘ tiiianimoiisl_\ adopted new Rush plan including later Formal
Rush and iiiorc casual contact.

The /‘ru/tzm began publishing

May

Bad business caused managers to close the Pit for dinner.

SAC officials called-for a review of Beta Theta Pi due to “a pattern of
unacceptablebehavior inthe house. particularly concerning house damage.”
' Men’s Lacrosse secured third trip to NCAA Division lll Tournament.

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer became the first W&L Woman to be a two
sport All American.

 "7 ‘ File Photo
The Watson Pavilion opened to display ancient Chinese art.

. . u-,..iIx.«.. . 4-mt.

Fil Photo

December

Chi Psi received its third social probation of ‘93 for failing to clean up the
house after Thanksgiving parties.

Vandals broke windows at W&L. VMl, and throughout Lexington.

Josephine Schacffcr placed eighth at Nationals and was chosen as an All-
American.

Womeiiis Basketball lost to Catholic University in Doremus Gym in their
debut as a Varsity Team.

 

 

5

W The Ring-tum Phi, January 7,1994

Singing gumshoes at   nfest-

 

a

By Denis Riva

Phi Contributing Writer

 

Get ready W&L. The Tony Award-
winning Broadway show City 0fAn-
gels kicks off its national tour at the
Lenfest Center this weekend. Praised
by critics for its wit and style, City of
Angels was named Best Musical by the
NY Drama Critics, OuterCritics Circle
and Drama Desk. The show, written by
M*A*S*H creator Larry Gelbart with
music by Cy Coleman and David
Zippel, also received the 1989-90Tony
Award for Best Musical.

Set inthe world of1940’s film noire,
the musical manages to slam everyone
from private eyes to movie moguls.

The plot tellstwo different, yet ironi-
cally parallel stories which contain each
other. The lead character, Stine, is try-
ing to turn his mystery novel into a
screenplay without selling out to the
movie industry. The detective in the
mystery novel, Stone, is presented as a
living extension of Stine himself. The
action splits itself between the black-
and-white world of Stone and the bril-
liant Technicolor of Stine’s life.

Frank Rich, the Broadway critic for
the New York Times wrote, “How long
has it been since a musical was brought
to a halt by riotousjokes?” Rich, who’s
reviews are said to have the power to

make or break a show, calls Coleman’s
score “a delirious celebration of jazz
and pop styles sumptuously orches-
trated by Billy Byers.” He offers fur-
ther praise by quoting from the show.
“‘Only the ﬂoor kept her from going on
forever. ’ With lines like that, l, for one,
would have been happy if City of An-
gels had gone on just as long.”

Songs to watch for are: “The Tennis
Song” because of it’s innuendo value
and the revealingly seductive “Lost
and Found.”

This presentation is sponsored and
funded in part by the Washington and
Lee Class of 1964 Performing Arts
Fund.Tickets are on sale at the Lenfest
box office for shows on Saturday at 2
pm. and 8 p.m.

Jimmy Powers records his hit song “Stay with Me” with the Angel City 4.

"x.,"'

Publicity Photos

    

   

‘U?

'~.a,<,..

'lvIv



Cream: of “W *3‘*i*I"

wamv .

DAVID Zl

._ A y
4 --—. .4. _ ~ 1 , -, ._> I . — - u~ _ I V - 3 -4 . p 4
in

  BuyaMacint_osh nowandyou can   * 
  organize your time, stra ten out your ~

ances or go comple lyballistic. l

 

..- ._...~..,.,_.,;,—._-.-.-_--..--...--_

   

1
cl
Mac,'mo5b1,c52o5/30 Macintosh [C 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus ‘ App1eP0wer30°k145B4/80-
intema1AppleCD" 300:‘ cmeozu om, 14'DivpIay. Apple Keyboard 1’ and ""W- 0"’J’ 51:204-
Apple Keyboard 11 and max. Only 519196 4
Only 51,596.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize
select Macintoshi or PowerBook‘“’ computer, you’ll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs iust for fun. So, why buy
software programs. It’s all included in one low price. And the software ‘ an Apple‘"’ computer? It does more. It costs less. it’s that simple. , y

package alone has a combined SRP value of $596’? It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal 

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information.
For further information visit University Computing in B .
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

fP_rice does not include sales tax

©1993 Aﬂ/I/t’ Cunipn/pr. /mi All rig»/2/.v re.\'er1'et1. Apple. //1eA/2/)le logo. rllaciiz/orb and Pouw-Boo/e cry rvgirlered Irrzrlemz/rk_v q/ .1/1/2‘/e Comyw/w: Im: ._l/2/7Ie(,‘I) is 11 /rmlumarl» o/Apply (Joni/m/er: Inc.
‘Brim! on /be ronibiiier/5'11/ilievled I(eIui1Prices(.$'I(l’} of/be/’“”/[M i” The C”'"P"-" 50/7W"’ W./0" '”‘/“””0*"/’ "X ’?/ 0"/"b" /' N93

 

  

 

lhe nintuim Phi, January 7,1994 W  4 PAGE

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

    
      
   

 

    

 
   
   

  

  

 

 

 

   

    

‘ ~ Plu ers b Jeff MacNe1l
- off the mark, by M5"“’a"5' .,e / ,, Y . Y
:’/////’Z;:i-’—-73:." ":4
/,:'.:-=._-';; ,_A PEPPERMINT PA9TA :3
C'M0N ‘/00 1-” 745 CR“E77N§’ _;~_ "2: WITH ANALMONI7 PEéT0,r 5;
MY D£ADLiN£ /s ALMOST //1:’/?E - ’ -.-—::- 9uN-Vg5gEGRAF’EFW' :-
QU\Ci<.' Do SOMETHING FUNNY... M‘ A
fumqy I TELL you]! it ‘
;?
 E
ii A i h‘ ’
Ex \ '2 . .
23 /N  ~ , Dave by David Miller
as A _ V‘   WHEN IWA9 A KID, IT WAS 9iM?LE. THERE HERE EN iwAs You:
.R\\ \\\,.V\ .   _'; y N" \\.x._\‘ No NEw9 BKEAK6, INTERVIEWG, GPORTS SEQMENTS, AG; MTV WA; Jugr
  ‘: ‘ ~:\,_, “‘\j§\\“~\\~\§ _ FAsHioN REPORT9, Movie zEv_iEw6, DOCUMENTARIE9, MUSIC VlDE0S.’
' 5525: j.,... - 1.,“  \\ \ _\\‘_.-  COMEDY air; or: GAME «snows!
"W":  ‘I-5 i . \ \.\~..s-:‘l\\‘\‘.‘A‘ .“‘.“\\‘» u.‘.'i’ul
‘,4 . ll
" ..:2::» . ' Fluggers know that “special 0 L
« " - * ti .'
-ms DARK SECRETBEHIND iri£i=miL~/ciizcus doesnt alwaysmean be er 
. Si
'9’
Colonnade Crossword
ACROSS
1 Shot in billiards P ‘   TLXE \’Q(C\-\\C
6Applaud 16
12 gszprts  A‘ Yes” CL0ELE9>"_
15 A Chaplin .No...‘(E9-.-Now
16 Stop DON'T KN°‘N..
17 c t t l '*
. 18 Mlotglsan ang e X55”

19 Kind of code

20 Silver type

22 Gobbler -

24 Narrow beds  '

25 Elephant feature

26 Tubes for \V r--'

sipping l -....y
29 Boring
' 33 gﬁaféi game \\/lL:%m4 ‘NP~’>l—\N(§\‘oN asrweiizws
I e

35 Damage

36 “I smell —"

37 Angers

38 In this place

39 Was in charge

40 High

temperature 1
. 41 Witchcraft .

23 sagrgils ta 9;;:?Su%:ge;1LadServices. Inc. 01/07/94

45 Noticed Last week’s puzzle solved

46 Detergent 12 Toward shelter

47Kindo1bul|et 13 Remain R A D I A N T C H A L l C E

glzconéter §:13‘F‘D—~aboy!" ICEDTEA RETIRES

-' ‘ ‘|Y STALEST ASTHIDE
x 55 Ser iopera reviojus
‘ . 5; Sie(:rrreaa:,a)/Africa 25 Si/tciieen helper E S N E T I A 3 E 0 5 A S E 

5 Pace 26 8 ‘m h t

59 Assistant iioﬂiowl O P A l E D A M A D A P T

60Barlega|ly 27—R‘s AROMA TAFT BAIT

61 “Citizen —" 28 Enjoysabook C I G A R E T T E H 0 L D E R

(Orson Welles) 29 Stories 1' A 1 L 9 U c 1' 1' E 3 R A
62 V|lla|n'$l0Ok 30 Greek letter s  E N E H E A T E S P 
63 Frets 31 Roger of A N T E T 0 A
ll,
DOWN 32 Sfjﬁba °”°e H A s P A D I T 0 u Y s b.V~/9”M3CN9//.V
. 1Taxis 34DavidofoId COPILOT DIVERSE
2He'Pind_ yglmgk AUSTERE ORANGES
wron oin et ac
3Wandgerab%ut as Mostjoytul D R E S S E R L E T T E R S
4 Gloomy 40 Gratis
5 Becomes gentle 41 Childhood
6 Quarters, e.g. disease
7 Yearn 43 Get away 48 Coolidge or 52 Plenty, to
8 Jillian of TV 44 Howard or Hayworth poets
9 Meadows Ely 49 “—— of thieves" 53 Opponents of
Q 10 Hammerheads 46 Planter 50 Cipher Dems.
11 Playground 47 Job 51 Be overly fond 56 Ascot

 

 

 

   

     
    

: Part-Time Help Wanted  7- 1/ Apartments for rent on Washington St -
f : Valley ﬁgs E  Above Univ. Sportswear and
: Work approximately 20 hrs. per week _ : ‘ I LeX_ prescription Center
:Opp°."““ity.t° Cam $400 ' $800 per momh Stamngi Hardware, Paint, and Related Items A Also Available : One bedroom houses in
: immediately — College Students Welcome _ 1 4 the East Lax Area
:9 can 463-1676 I Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. A Call 463-2823
'. n IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII: E‘NelS0nSt°’I"eXingtOn  ‘—7
— — ————————————————————— — —I glllllllll|||l|||||||||||||||'|||"|||“|l""H"|""""""'"""'Eé A
i,  f A n : ,( ”“"«'““/6)"?/3 §BEA§,:I,ﬁp(::I;§::a;§;E:]0ter‘E KFOI‘ Sale: Brother Word Processor , I
i y l _ Now showing _  FREE trips and CASH!  Brand New and Price Negotiable:
I ‘  ~ - - - 
E P ll  I1 a S e   II‘ R wc’   gmiiIﬁiiiiiiihiilhliiiiiiiiiﬁﬂiiijiﬁiiiigﬁﬁhiiiiliiii K  
.| . l Dinosaurs :Sto’ry:15; A  I N
, Tins Ad ,   r .
I
» - wcoviii C t fAn ls
:‘§NicH'i* OWL MUSIC (:03 :    1 0 e
A I ' ?,3.§,’§,,'§, E33  The Tony Award-winning musical
9 25 S. Jefferson 464-4050 I , t t ~ ,
, _ , I you won t wan 0 miss.
I Open ll a.m. til 7 p.m. Monday - Frlday, | y
i Saturday 11 a‘"" ' 5 ‘’‘m' | “Exhilarating-The funniest

  
 

261 -7292

75 Beech Ave., Buena Vista American musical in years.”

New York Times

6

  

GROLTXLEADERS WANTED !

 “A Miracle! An American musical,

* with American jazz rhythms,
American wisecracks, and an
original American script.”
Newsweek

“Wonderful, Racy, Witty,

Hilarious. Easily one of the most
dazzling new shows on Broadway.”
WPlX- TV & CBS Radio

 

January 8 at 2:00 8i 8:00 p.rn.
Lenfest Center—Tlckets now on sale
(463-8000)

 
 

'$DAYAlD7DAYPACImI8

30-50% WINTER SALE
. Don’t You Dare Go Bare ..,,..i........m...,..,........

  if   A  — ﬂ ENFEST ERIES
 FLQ  K 4 Wm am ,1’ iiwlsmemsiss

IT'S A PIRATES LIFE !

  
.3 :1
-3’
,4
'%
»' '\

 

r
l
l
l

r

    

PAGE 6

@112 Ring-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Renaissance
needs a sequel

This month marks three years since the houses in the first
phase of Fraternity Renaissance were completed. The deal

I , was simple. Fraternity house corporations would turn over

the deeds to their respective fraternity housesin exchange
for renovation and restoration of those houses, in order to
comply with the university’s standards for fraternities.
The ultimate vision for both the fraternities and the admin-
istration was a rebirth for the fraternities on all levels 
physical, mental and philosophical.

Many fraternity members thought this was a good deal,
and many were pleased by the new appearances of their
houses, but later the beauty was found to be only skin deep.
Along with the new “renovations” came newproblems
with which to contend.

The shoddy workmanship of the renaissance contractors
is becoming evident after just a few years of use. Cracks
in the walls, leaky shower fixtures, erratic heating systems
and careless patchwork are just a few examples of cutting
corners. In addition, Buildings and Grounds personnel add
to their workload by fixing things that are nonessential and
trivial in comparison to the needed repairs.

One fraternity discovered, after arriving back at school
from summer break, that all the mattresses in the house had
been unneccesarily taken to the dump and replaced with
new ones. The reason: the mattresses had small spots on
them. They were perfectly good mattresses —- less than a
year and a half old. The fraternity members weren’t given
notice or a choice in the matter. They were simply given
a bill.

Take the case of another fraternity on campus. The
housemother’s suite, located directly above the house’s
party room, was never soundproofed during renovation.
Another house complained that their bathroom stalls were
falling apart. And all of this pales in comparison to another
house where a poorly-built brick wall fell over. It seems
every house has its horror stories.

Is this type of waste what the architects of renaissance
intended? It’s certainly not what the fraternities intended.

In order for the university to restore the fraternities’
confidence in the program, the priorities of Fraternity
Renaissance need to be reexamined. Problems with the
houses illustrate a simple case of misdirected priorities. A
fraternity house is not going to revertto its p,re-renaissance,

— . condition if .a chipped pieceof furniture is noteimmediatelyi
- fixed or replaced. . I . 2.7. * I

Instead of worrying about spots on mattresses and day-
old party decorations, B&G and the Hill shouldbe worried
about leaky pipes and cracked walls. Renaissance has
become an exercise in nit-picking. Fraternities now see it
as an endless bureaucracy that will not listen to reason.

The Hill has only addressed the physical aspects of
Fraternity Renaissance. The renaissance in the everyday
appraoch to dealing with fraternities has yet to begin.

— RW,-TH

Quote of the Week

“There are no ladies here — I can tell the smutty
stories of history now.”

— a professor of history upon realizing that his
class was all—male.

@112 ‘filing;-tum lﬂhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . -. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' .Stephen Williard

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington, Ethan Krupp

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi

OPINION

 
   

ll?

/////e

3; HINK 1: Com)
D0 e2E.Ar THwtrs
Fora THl$ Co-UNIX

LEARN TO -KEEP

  

I COULD ONL

The Riqg-tum Phi, January 7, 1995

Dennard trivializes sexual assault

In his column before Christmas break, Ryan
Dennard offered a critique of the Phi’s recent two-
part series on sexual assault on campus. Speciﬁcally,
Mr. Dennard chose to question the validity of the
opening story in which Lyrae Van Clief described her
campus assault. This incident took place her fresh-
man year and was commit-
ted by a student she knew.

Mr. Dennard’s initial

his guilt. In this way her case is quite unique. Most
accused-rapists do not admit their crimes, and many
rape victims do not have the strength to go through a
lengthy court process in order to get a guilty verdict.

This brings me to my next problem with Mr.
Dennard’s views. He criticizes the Phi for not focus-
ing on the criminal aspects of
the sexual assault issue, but
instead pursuing _a campus-

concern is with the Phi’s
assumption of guilt on the
part of the accused. He
states that since the rape
was not tried in a court of
law and the accused was
not found guilty, “we must
assume it did not occur.”

 

oriented approach, discussing
the judicial process that is in

PATRICK place. The Phi rightly focused
MCDERMOIT on the campus services that
’ are available because that is

’94 where most women go first.

In addition, emphasis was

He is also ‘concerned that _ »
the'P‘h’i"w‘as not ‘as 'careful”"‘ ' ‘ ' M  , A '
as it should have been in disguising the identity of the
accused.

My only conclusion after reading both of these
critiques is that Mr. Dennard did not read the article
very well. The article I read stated very clearly that the
accused openly admitted his guilt to several of Ms.
Van Clief’s friends, as well as to other members of
this community. These actions on the pan of the
accused, I believe, preclude what would have been
the Phi’s usual concern of conﬁdentiality.

More importantly, though, is Mr. Dennard’s as-
sumption that this rape “did not occur.” This state-
ment evidently stems from our legal system’s credo
of“innocent until proven guilty.” I would not think of
questioning a legal standard that has guided this
country’ssystem ofjustice so long. I would, however,
point out that rape is more than a criminal offense, and
we as a university community are not a court of law.
I am certainly not suggesting that we assume guilt in
cases of rape and sexual assault. What I am saying is
that in cases such as these, we must assume nothing.
To assume guilt is to be unfair to the accused, to
assume that nothing happened is to be unfair to the
victim who, as Mr. Dennard points out, is going
through a “long-lasting” and painful process.

We, as a university, are not bound by the restric-
tions of a courtroom, and can therefore be more
accepting ofboth sides in our mediation process. Our
standard response should be that a situation exists in
which two people have conﬂicting stories and we
search to find the truth. . -

However, as noted, in Ms. Van Clief’s case none
of this was necessary because the accused admitted

..i z,.

most,likelylplaced on the cam-
. .p.I.i.S. $y;$tem. l29<s8’Iis.e, many
a‘ ' , ‘ of"usfeel'it,needstobechanged
or augmented. Personally”, I would like to‘see a system
that includes sexual assault or rape as an honor viola-
tion. I find it offensive that a student at this university
can be expelled for stealing a pencil, but that same
student can rape someone, admit it publicly and still
graduate from Washington and Lee. Is this the kind of
person we want represent-
ing this institution as a
graduate? For those who
believethisto be an exag-
geration, who feel that
someone like that could
never stay on campus, I
would point out that the
“gentleman” who raped
Ms. Van Clief not only
stayed on campus, but al-
most became a dorm
counselor. Is that the kind
of gentlemanly behavior
that General Lee stood
for? Would he have al-
lowed such a person to
graduate from his school?
These are questions be-
fore us. Hopefully they will be asked during the
meetings of the White Book Review Committee.
But this is not solely a student issue. In order to
have a fully effective policy for handling sexual
assault, we must have an administration that is sup-
portive of such a program and that will actively seek
out solutions to the problem. ,
Unfortunately that is not what we have now. Two

I would like to see a system that
includes sexual assault or rape as
an honor violation. I find it offen-
sive that a student at this univer- v
sity can be expelled for stealing a
pencil, but that same student can
go out and rape someone, admit it
publicly and still graduate from
Washington and Lee.

years ago, when a freshman woman was assaultid
in her dorm room, President Wilson wrote a letter to
the university community expressing his sorrow
over the fact that the problem of sexual assault had
finally reached our campus. He seemed to believe
this to be the first time in our school’s lengthy
history that a woman was raped. He and every
administrator on this campus knows that thatﬁs
simply not true. They have all seen the reports and
surveys of women stating that they were assaulted
on this campus. They have seen these reports and
they have chosen to set them aside in hopes of
avoiding the public relations difficulties involved in
admitting to a sexual assault problem.

They are desperately afraid that alumni agd
perspective parents and students would see the
universitynas unsafe and flawed. The fact is that no
cairipus: is safe from sexual assault, and_when,ot_ie

‘finds a campus that doesn’t talk about or list ‘its
‘ problems with sexual assault and rape doesn’t mean

that one has finally found a safe-haven. On the
contrary, one has found a campus that is simﬁy
avoiding the problem. It is on that kind of campus,
a campus like W&L, that women are in the greatest
danger.

So, rather than
critici2ingthePhi’s
recent articleonthis
issue, I ccznplimsnt
the staff for a thor-
ough discussion of
an important topic.
I sincerely hope that
the university’s ad-
ministration will
take this newly
awakened disc9s—
sion as a sign that
they would attack
this problem with
the same energy
with which they
have run the Capi-
tal Campaign. O_

After all, what good are new buildings if stu-
dents aren‘t safe in them’? Just as we have stood “On
The Shoulders ofGiants,” we should rise above the
problemsoffallingendowmentsandabadeconomy
and let us work to prevent situations like thatwhich
happened to Lyrae Van Clief. I cannot think of
anything more in line with the traditions ofour own
two founding generals.

Press patronizes us with review

A new year begins again. It seems,
like those in the past, that the airwaves
of radio and television, and the printed
pages of newspapers and journals are
filled with vari-
ous “Year in

year-end programs are too appealing,
for reporters and audiences alike. After
all, it does present a full year’s news into
a one-hour, easily consumable product.
A In fact, we

need not keep

Review” fea-

 

up with cur-

tures_ rent events

The articles C.F. during the
and programs yearwhenwe
focusonthebad KUCEE’  can simply
and the good, turn: On
both events of C 0 n n i 6
joy for the Chung in late
worldandthose December.
of sorrow; and And ' why

these programs undoubtedly end with
a New Year prognosis: “And what

should Peter Jennings be forced to re-
port the news daily when-he can wait

free... punch and cookies. Before then
stood in line for matriculation, shook
Dean Manning’s hand, and well, we
were in. The year proceeded with more
rush,thebeginningsofpledgeship,mid-
terms, Thanksgiving break, Christmas
Weekend, finals, and finally, Christ-
mas recess.

On second thought, maybe I
shouldn’t have given it a try; now even
I don’t care.

On a serious note, however, it is
important to
remember the
year that pre-
ceded 1994.
This remem-
brance should

whenthey talked with Amy,Joey,Jobn,
and Michael (Jackson that is). What
these year-end programs do is not re-
mind us, but insult us. They begin with
the premise that we are too stupid or
uncompassionate to pay attention dur-
ing the year, so they take it upon them-
selves to broadcast and print, and ge-
broadcast, and reprint these programs
and articles. While I was on break,
flippingthroughthe channelsforsome-

thing mindless to watch, I found it; in '

ssss m (6

Do people in our
country have nothing

fact, three such
programs "were
being aired.

As for .ie
New Year prog-
nosis, what do

comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee

Publications Board electsthe executive editorand business manager, butTheRing-tumPhi will bethe evenlslhat Stirus in 1994?” um” the end of the year, and give l_~t t9 us take place in better to d0  their the news reponr
. . . . ’ asked one television newscaster? The all at once? Perhaps, in fact, this IS a the home. , ers knowthe rest
'5 otherwm mdependem answer: who caresl! media trend I should try. . I though. and well'de-gerved hohday Of "5 d0” ll?

Letters andlother submissions must be in_ the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and My

Dopeopleinourcountry have noth- For those of you who slept through should deal Have they been

vacations than to sit

Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂecl the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current

court definitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

ing better to do with their well-de-‘

served holiday vacations than to sit
about and recount how wonderful or
crappy the year was? Must they be
continually subjected to the horrors of
the past year (most still ongoing) such
as Somalia, Bosnia, and the Clinton
Administration? Must they relive ev-
ery moment of John Bobbitt’s lost
penis incident, or the pre—adult sexual
exploits ofAmy Fisher with Joey B...
need I use the name again‘?

Perhaps, however, these types of

the 1993 fall term at W&L (especially
freshpersons), here is all the news that’s
new and improved, in a simple‘-to-un-
derstand year-in-review package. As a
freshman (excuse me. .. “freshperson”)
I started out the year with orientation,
and oh what fun it was. Our dose of
political correctness (PC) was adminis-
tered at Playfair, an event that even
some sophomores remember fondly.
Then fraternity rush began, and contin-
ued (a time that will be remembered
fondly; we now long for the days of

with the thing
that touched
the lives of in-.
dividuals. We
all remember
the horror of
U.S. soldiers
being dragged
through the streets of Somalia, and the
picturesotthe war hospitals in Bosnia
remain etched in our collective con-
science.

We all watched Donahue and Oprah

year was?

about and recount how
wonderful or crappy the

given some Qirt
of Godly insight
that has not been
. granted to the
rest of us‘? This
just goes to show
the arrogance
withwhichthose
reporters operate. Concerning the rest
ofus, mostjust hope to make it through
the next year successfully. For me. that
means escaping this year’s 1994 Year
in Review.

 

w

    

The Ring-tum Phi, January 7, 1994

OPINION

Spos rings in another year at W&L

Spos’ SPACE
' Tom Hnespos

Welcome back! Seniors take note:
we have entered 1994, the year of our
graduation. Just think, in just a few
months the senior class will set forth
into the real world with enough youth-

ul optimism to believe it can affect
some kind of positive change on the
world. Realize, of course, that this
optimism will be completely obliter-
ated when at least half of the senior
class falls victim to a ﬂoundering job
énarket and ‘ends up ﬂipping burgers at
‘Hardee’s” or something.
Butenough ofthistalkofthe future,
let’s discuss the Holiday Break. 1 hope
Santa Claus or Hanukkah Harry (or
whoever) brought everybody what they
wanted. Personally, Spos received a
few kooky gifts from friends and fam-
Hy, the primary example being a clay
‘bust of Mark Twain enscribed with the
words “Spos’ Space Literary Award”--
Thanks, Dad.
Spos was also surprised to receive a
Christmas card from the alternative
rock group Toad the Wet Sprocket. It

Was addressed to a certain Thomas F. "

Hegpog, who evidently shares a post
office box with Spos’ alter ego, the
mild-mannered news editor Tom
Hespos. In any case,Toad is doing fine
a_nd they promise a new album soon.

0

But back to the lecture at hand.
Spos has heard the mumblings of
students in the Co-op, complaining
about the various pains associated
with being home with their parents
for an extended period of time. Of
course, this behavior is consistent
with Spos Postulate #339, which

friends is not an option. Mothers ask,
“Where are you going?” and you can’t
exactly tell them that you’re going out

' to melt a couple thousand brain cells

with a few ofyour buddies. ln any case,
your motherwants you to lingeraround
the house during the holidays and watch
“The Transformers Christmas Carol”

states that with your 2-
whenacol- year-old
lege student _—.———. C C T... cousin. So
returnsto his ' you stay
0; he? Plafce Spos Postulate #339 :9dme and
o origin or l e your
,, honday, states that when a college time um“ me
he/she will student returns to his or new semester
want to turn ' ° starts and
around and herplace ofonguffora freedom is
head back to holiday, he/she Wlll want once again
Zilgoftl aftses to turn around and head grail/ied» S,“
ycou I
min u t e s.  to School after about Julie, who at-
Parents get minutes, t e n d s
tobequitea Moravian
chafe at College, ex-
times. Not pressed much
to say that the same feel-

they aren’t nice people, but think
about it.

After college releases the student
from the shackles offamily responsi-
bility, a visit home will imprison the
student once again. Upon returning
home, a student is faced with the
notion that leaving one’s domicile at
two in the morning on a Tuesday
night to go out drinking with one’s

LETTERS

ing when the holidays brought us to-
gether. She maintains that one gets
usedtotheideaofdoingthingswithout
telling anyone where you’re going or
answering to anyone. To her, college
is freedom. lncidentally, l should men-
tion that Julie is currently in some kind
of legal trouble after an incident in
which the police raided her sorority
house. Perhaps those parents are

needed after all.

Spos’ break was even more frustrat-
ing after a hellacious knee operation,
apparently a Christmas gift from Mom
and Dad. Most seniors experience some-
thing like this after a parent expresses
that “we should get everything taken
care ofwhile you’restillunderourmedi-
cal plan.” Of course, most seniors just
have their wisdom teeth pulled or some-
thing, but Spos’ parents insisted that a
nagging knee injury be fully checked
out, which resulted in Spos’ falling un-
der the surgeon’s knife over Christmas
break.

The subsequent recuperation has
been no fun at all, but at least it’s not
keeping me out ofthe bars. lfany of you
faithful Spos’ Space readers happen to
be cute females, please approach me on
the hill and offer to carry my books or
give me a sympathetic kiss on the fore-
head — I could use the emotional support
after being cooped up with my folks and
my sister for extended periods of time.
Damn, it’s good to be back.

In conclusion, as a service to the
Washington and Lee community, Spos
will be offering a gift exchange. Come
to The Ring-tum Phi office anytime on
Thursday, January 13 and bring that
ugly sweater that your Aunt Gertrude
gave you this Christmas (you know, the
one with the little blue fish embroidered
on it). Exchange it for other people’s
kooky gifts. For example, we have a
slightly used bust of Mark Twain...

. Post reader chastises Yoder, “darkness” of media

Editor ’s Note: Professor Yoder verbally declined
a challenge to debate that was made in Mr. Martin ’s
previous letter.

0 the editor: 7

So, the suspense is over. Professor Yoder has
made his choice. He will not debate. He will not stand
up on his home turf and defend publicly his wanton,
nationally-syndicated attacks upon the motives, and
even the sanity, of the courageous critics of the
government’s JFK single-assassin theory.

Why should we not be surprised? Yoder is simply
sﬁowing himself to be no less lucifugous than the
news organization with which he is affiliated, The
Washington Post. After all, I wrote to you in the first
place because .I knew from sad experience that there
wasn’t a chance that the Post would print my rebuttal
letter to Yoder’s column on the Kennedy assassina-
tion, no matter how short and stylish l might have
iﬁde it. This is how they like to stack the deck.

A good example of the Post at work was on
display on November 18, 1993, when it reported on
the congressional committee hearings on the imple-
mentation of the Oliver Stone-inspired legislation
requiring the expeditious release of all government
documents related to the assassination. There was
®orge‘Lardner’s article on page A4, surrounded by

the usual ladies’ luxury apparel ads. According to
testimony, he reported, in spite of the orgy of self-
congratulation and the blizzard of smug conclusions
that have already been drawn, no more than ten to
twenty percent of the documents have been released
so far and none of them came from the main investi-
gator, the FBI.

The law’s violators already are legion, led by
President Clinton with his indefensible delay in
nominating the five-person board which would re-
view the “most sensitive” (read “most important” or
“most incriminating”) documents. No mention was
made of such bombshells as the testimony that,
according to newly available documents, the House
Assassinations Committee was told by radiologist

~ Dr. John Ebersol'e,.on.duty in the autopsy room that

fateful night in the Bethesda Naval Hospital, that
Kennedy’s neck had a wound that had been sutured
and the back of his head was missing.

Even so, the judgment was apparently made at a
high level that Lardner had inadvertently exposed
too much of the government’s plan to stonewall yet
another attempt to get at the truth. ln the later editions
that same morning, the ones that those inside the
Beltway get to read, Lardner’s article had been
completely excised andreplaced withacompendium
of routine wire service reports from around the

country. Some things, it had been decided, the
American public is better off just not knowing.

My undergraduate institution, Davidson Col-
lege, and my graduate institution, the University of
North Carolina, have the following Latin mottos,
respectively: ALENDA LUX UB1 ORTA
LIBERTAS and LUX LIBERTAS. Each of them,
the former more explicitly than the latter, makes a
connection between light and liberty. It is a con-
nection which I believe even the most benighted
among us can appreciate. It therefore ill-becomes
any citizen of our nominally free republic, espe-
cially a journalist, a newspaper editor, and what
appears to be the entire U.S. media establishment,
to demonstrate a clear preference for darkness. To
put it bluntly, such behaviorvthreatens thecountry ’s
very foundation. , " ' _ , 

Finally, for those who would question motives,
l refer to the currently unfashionable, but truly
timeless, words of Jesus of Nazareth: “For every-
one practicing evil hates the light and does not
come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed”
John 3:20.

Sincerely,
Gary D. Martin
Chantilly, Virginia

Counselor thanks W&L student volunteers :

To the editor: _

‘The parents, teachers, and especially
the students of Central School would
like to thank the following W&L stu-
dents who have volunteered this year
to act as Big Brothers and Big Sisters
for our kids:

Sally Obermueller. Sarah Wyatt,
Bart Sterling, Ashlie Kaufman, Justine
King, Will Graham, Miriam Neel, Amy
Rash, Rob Carter, Julia Podlas. Billy
Aiken, Elizabeth Carson. Allison
Oneacre, Justin Youngblood,

Mariecken Verspoor, Nicole Bryant,
Jen Norwood, Claudia Bowen, Jenni-
fer Roscoe, Amy Jones, Theras Jones,
Kelly Eagan, Alex Russell, Chad
Sartini, Ann Van Auker, Shannon Fos-
ter, Anna Starling, John Tissue, Ken
Zelenak, Margaret Hawn, Susie
Stowell, Brandy Henderson, Liza
Gallardo, Schuyler Jones, Stacey
Colfry, and Jenni Robinson.

We have the largest group ofvolun-
teers ever (37) and the first thirteen
names are students serving for the sec-

ond or third year.

This is not an easy job. Many ofour
students live far out in the county and
Brothers and Sisters have to provide
transportation. Some kids don’t know
how to express thanks or appreciation.
Some kids are afraid to get too close or
care too much for their Brothers or
Sisters for fear of getting hurt when
they are gone.

Some kids are shy or bossy or down-
right hard to manage. But every child is
changed by their association with a

40

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom.
0

If classes were cancelled because of snow,

  

Joe Ruwe, ’97, Ellsworth, Me. —
“Get wasted at my fraternity house.”

Greg Tully, ’95, Towson, Md. —
“Sleeping.”

TALKBACK

 

Brother or Sister.

Every child learns by being helped,
being forgiven, being treated with re-
spect, and by being loved by someone
who chose them.

To bring peace to the world you
must start with just one person. Thank
you Big Brothers and Big Sisters for
starting here.

Margorie Page
Guidance Counselor
Central School

Volunteers

The Parent Empowerment
Project is looking for student vol-
unteers to teach small classes for at-
risk youth. We provide eight hours
of training and extensive volunteer
support. If you would like more
information please call John White
at 464-8560 or 377-2225. Volun-
teer training starts on Jan. 15.

Columnists

The Phiislookingforabiweekly
liberal political columnist. lf you
are interested please call Richard at
464-8675.

Spring term

Applications for the Washing-
ton Term Program are now avail-
able from Professor Connelly, C-
school room 108. The Washington
Term Program is held during the

’ six-week spring semester and com-
bines a Washington, D.C. intern-
ship with a weekly class session.
The six—credit program is open to
all majors and all classes. Deadline
for receipt of applications is Jan.
14.

Film Society

The Film Society’s next presen-
tation will be the mysterious drama
Olivier, Olivier (Poland/France,
’1993) Showings will be at 8:05 p.m.
on Friday, Jan. 14 and Saturday,
Jan. 15. There is no charge for ad-
mission. The film is in French, with
English subtitles.

 

This week’s general notes were compiled by Richard Weaver.

PAGE 7

Figaro

Open auditions for the W&L
production of the Marriage of
Figaro will be held on Jan. 20-21 at
6:30 p.m.andJan.23 at2p.m.atthe
Lenfest Center. Anyone interested
in auditioning may pick up sheet
music from the W&L Music De-
partment at 463-8852. Parts avail-
able for women include four sopra-
nos and one mezzo soprano; parts
for men include two tenors, three
basses and one baritone.

Self Defense

Southern Virginia College for
Women is offering The RAPE Ag-
gression Defense System to teach
self-defense tactics for women. A
$10 registration fee includes a
manual and workbook. For more
information please call Susan Sisler,
261-8402.

SAMS

On Friday, Jan. 21, the 8th an-
nual SAMS Lip Sync Contest will
take place in the Pavilion to benefit
the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation
and RARA, the Rockbridge Area
Relief Association. Sign ups will
be from Wednesdays, Jan. 12 until
Thursday, Jan. 20 in front of the
Co-op. Formore information, please
call Beth Provenzana, 1994 SAMS
Chair, at 462-4855.

NRA member finds fault
with cartoon

To the editor:

1 know it is a moot point, but in the
Phi issued on December 3, 1993, the
political cartoon was incorrect. Yes,
the Brady Bill did pass and President
Clinton did sign it into a law, but Vir-
ginia is exempted.

This is because Virginia already has

an insta-check system in place. So
people do not have to wait the five days
given in the -bill in Virginia. 1 appreci-
ate satire, but you must have the basic
facts right and your’s are wrong.

NRA member and voter,
Charles Walters, ’95

W&L’s reputation
extends to UNC, Spain

To the editor:

At the start of a recent European
holiday, l magnanimously offered to
buy “gelato for all” at the first sighting
of one of our family’s alma mater —
W&L (son, ’96), Miami of Ohio, Or-
egon State, and Drake, while in ltaly
and Spain.

For two weeks there were no
sightings. We were in need of
confectionary delights.

Then. while sitting in a cervezaria
in Sevilla,Spain,alasl lspottedayoung
woman in a W&L sweatshirt.

“Hola,"lsaid,exhaustingmy entire
Spanish vocabulary.

“Hello,” she fortunately replied.

“Do you attend W&L?” I asked.

“No, sir,” she responded.

“l attend the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. I was accepted
at W&L and in many ways l wish I’d
gone there. I wish we had an honor
code at UNC like W&L. .. sir.”

There we were, in a briefconversa-
tion in Spain, talking about something
— a code — whose impact obviously
extends well beyond Lexington, Vir-
ginia.

l was pleased and proud to satisfy
our craving.

Sincerely,
Ronald R. Read

Rebekah Prince, ’96, Dallas, Tx., Marguerite Nielsen, ’94, Nashville, Tenn., and Kendall Sibley, ’94, Atlanta, Ga.

how Wuld you spnd the da?

— “We’d go down to the Kappa house and drink beer withour sisters and then have a snowball fight.”

  

Shelby Lamar, ’96, Charlottesville,
Va. —— “l’d spend it in bed."

 

121"?‘ I-'.r4¢.ri~ 3.‘ "ions .t'¢~‘u<n-It-.\-re ~£r' -' . -

 

  

3.1 .\ ~73-.:: 5-.

PAGE 8

Peek questions the

DPECK, from page 1

mittee has never before handled an
appeal case like this, the process is new
to all participants. The committee was
to base its conduct on that outlined for
the standing committee by the AAUP.

“Ifthere are any rules, the people in
power are making them up as they go
along,” Peck said.

English Department Head Edwin
D. Craun also seemed to be unaware
what the Advisory Committee has done
thus far. ‘

“The deliberations of the commit-
tee were confidential,” Craun said. “I
haven’t received a copy oftheir report.
I know no more than that.”

According to Physics Professor H.
Thomas Williams, Jr.. chair of the
President’s Advisory Committee, the
committee began meeting two days
after Strong’s election and has been
meeting frequently since.

“Presently we are working on the
final versions of the report,” Williams
said. “With the wind behind us, we
should have a report to present to Presi-
dent Wilson and to Professor Peck
within the next few weeks.”

Williams, however. would notcom-

ment on the procedure the committee
has used or whether anything besides
the appeal was considered in arriving
at their decision. Neither Williams nor
Craun would say ifthe English depart-
ment had submitted any response to
Peck’s appeal.

The charge before the EEOC, un-
like the appeal before the Advisory

‘ Committee which claims defective pro-

cedures in her evaluation, is based on
gender discrimination.

“I ﬁled [with the EEOC] because I
believe I have been discriminated
against because of'my sex,” said Peck.

Although EEOC guidelines allow
the individual to sue for discrimination
and a lawsuit may be pending, Peck
says she has not hired a lawyer.

“I would like to negotiate a settle-
ment with the university so I can drop
thechargeswiththe EEOC,”Peck said.
“Nobody wants a lawsuit. I just want
my job back.”

Peck also filed a request with the‘

Advisory Committee to see any
counter—charges filed but her request
was denied.

“Conducting my appeal this fall has
been like playing a game of cards in
which my opponents can see the cards
in my hands but I have not been al-

in Lee Chapel.

Harvard Divinity School.

Pro ct or t lecture
Samuel D. Proctor, professor emeritus at Rutgers University and pastor

emeritus of the Abyssinian Baptist Church of New york City, will deliver
the Martin Luther King, Jr. memorial lecture on Thursday, Jan. 13, at 8 p.m.

Proctor, a native of Norfolk, is an alumnus of Virginia Union Univer-
sity, Crozer Theological Seminary, and Boston University, where he
earned the Doctor of Theology degree in 1950.

Currently, Proctor servesas adjunct professor at. the United Theologi-
cal Seminary in Dayton, Ohio; the School of Theology at both Boston
University and Virginia Union University; and in 1990-91 as visiting
professor, the Divinity School, Vanderbilt University. In 1990, he was the
Lyman Beecher Lecturer at Yale Divinity Sbliooi.

He is a member of the governing boards of the United Negro College
Fund, Col gate-Rochester-CrozerTheological Seminary, Union Theologi-
cal Seminary of New York, and the Overseers’ Visiting Committee for

lowed to see the other’s hands,” Peck
said.

While the Committee has been look-
ing through Peck’s 67—page appeal,
students have begun to voice theiropin-
ion on what ought to be the outcome of
the appeal.

“She’s really important to W&L
and she’s a great teacher,” sophomore
John Branam said.

He and senior Allison Lewis went
to see President John D. Wilson during
exam week in order to present the stu-
dent voice.

“We wanted to give the student per-
spective and emphasize while it may
be a bureaucratic decision, the students
are also concerned with the future of
W&L,” Branam said.

Several other students called to ar-
range a meeting with Wilson but only
Branam and Lewis were able to meet
with him.

Both Branam and Lewis had just
completed Peck’s African American
Literature and decided to go to Wilson
with their concerns.

“We talked to Wilson for about an
hour but there seemed to be some in-
consistencies in what he was saying,”
Branam said. “He does have to play the
politician but he should be more candid

“rules”

than he was. He seemed to be walking
a very fine line for a president.”

According to Branam, beginning
next week there will be a petition out-‘
side of the Co-op which students can
sign to show their support.

“All her former students still at W&L
will be e-mailed,” Branam said. “Her
three classes from last term have al-
ready signed a petition.” '

Peck said the students should let
their voices be heard and ought to be
counted.

“Student opinions count a lot since
they have made an issue of my teach-
ing abilities,” Peck said.

Despite the long silence from the
committee, Peck remains hopeful"
things will be resolved while shedding
needed light on the experience of fe-
male professors at Washington and Lee.
She is on leave this term so she may
take her son for therapeutic assistance
in Rochester, NY.

“I think ifthis experience has taught
me anything it’s that there’s a double
standard for the sexes. If a man dis-
agrees, he is viewed as being strong
and assertive. But ifa woman expresses
a dissenting view, she is regarded as
being disruptive, strident, whining and
unprofessional.” .

Profs battle in court

D HEATLEY, from page l

of Staunton, filed a list of interrogato-
ries on December 17, 1993, asking
Heatley for details on several aspects
of the case. including any specific in-
stances in which Heatley claimed to
have heard the alleged rumors. Ac-
cordingtothe submission, Heatley must
respond to the interrogatories within
2l days of receiving them.

Recently. ProfessorofPolitics John
Handelman was subpoenaed as a wit-
ness and must give zl deposition later
this month. Handelman refused to
comment on the case.

According to Moore. Heatley was
askedto resign due toconflicts with his

co-workers. _

“[Heatley] has been told it had some-
thing to do with an inability to get
along with the other people that he was
working with,” Moore said. “[lt was]
just a difference in philosophy in deal-
ing with other people."

Moore said Heatley had been as-
sured by administrators that his dis-
missal was not due to any kind of
misconduct. -

A September 3. I993 memo from
Dean ofStudents David Howison to all
department heads stated that Heatley
had resigned his position in June and
would remain at W&L as an adjunct
Associate Professor of Classics for
I993-94.

L

For Sale

Large Wooden Bookcase $50 or best offer
Good Entertainment Center — holds up to 21" T.V.
and all stereo equipment - $75 or best offer.
Please Call 464- 9163

 
 
  

SUPE

DRUG STORES

     

Apartment for Rent
4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.
2 1/2 miles west of town. Only $175 per bedroom.
Inquire at Kelly’s Comer 463-5452

‘BIELC-.OlVdE 

BACK!

The Flingtum Phi, January 7, 1994

Some students believe alumni feel that tear night is just the first step gn
becoming a brother that also involves hazing.

Howison promotes
hazing policy '

he HAZING, from page 1

vere punishmentcomingafterthethird
offense: usually referral to the Student
Affairs Committee.

John Hudson, 21 Chi Psi, said that
such rules have been characterized by
ambiguous enforcement in their appli-
cation. '

“People are always getting away
with stuff,” Hudson said.

Smith said the severity ofthe viola-
tion would factor into the punishment.
despite the clarified guidelines.

“We have to look at each thing—if
it involved something serious, we
would refer them to the IFC, but for
something less serious then we would
deal with it differently,” he said.

Howison said there have been no
formal and completedjudicial proceed-
ings involving hazing violations dur-
0

ing his tenure as Dean of Students over
the last three and a half years. He said
that Lewis John, who preceded hi as
Dean of Students, also could not cite’
any instances of completed judicial
proceedings in the last twenty-one
years.

Early on Wednesday. however,
Howison said a fraternity on campus
was being investigated for a haz"ng
violation.

Howison wouldgivenodetailsabout
the investigation, and would not name
the house that allegedly violated haz-
ing regulations. He said the IFC was
currently conducting an inquiry, and
that the Student Affairs Committee
would hold a hearing on the alleged
violation today.

The IFC would not give any details
about the investigation. and closed the
press from the second halfof its meet-

"K

Open 7 Days
A Week

      
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
  
    

 

Rmclmcn: All mains-1 item 5 an requm [0 be ml:
wc ism me ngnl I17 llml

  
 

-alanle Ill out mm. ll in mi our 47! an adv9r|rsu1l|Im.ynu may noon 1 mmlnnnlu nranmvmtn m
rIDlI$. No sales menus. suqqoaun mm Pncr may not on in: anew ll -mal lhl pmnua is qonuzly sour. Onty MI nmoi mpo

rum. DI : mnaonor omen mun: you In wtalasa
it wil nu

  
    
 
  
  

mung: ll-in aim aavcmua .
Imam nu Jbtntu mupun(n)mluuu tn an,

Lexington   .
US Hwy. 11, Rt. 7 Phone: 463-7126

Varner & Pole

Furniture‘ &Shades
19 S. Randolph St.

ew Location!

Specializing in Unfurnished

Lexin ton, VA 463-2742

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-800-327-6013.

¥CR,U‘|SE JOBS

Students Needed!
Earn $2,000+ per month + world
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.) working for
Cruise Ships or Tour Companies.
Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time
employment available.

     

For
employment program call:

Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-0468 ext.C5342

Winter
Nferehandise
on Sale

  ot>ponaQ9o

Lexington Shop

for Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

. . Accessories

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. — Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

 
  
 

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
, tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

  
  
  
  
  
 
  

  

  

(K

W&L Art

We have three

R. E. Lee 0

Signatures; Two are War Date.
W&L Copperplate, hand-colored I
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art

Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

llllllllllﬁ
lilllllllll

ing on Tuesday.

4 East Wash1n' on Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464 .

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. — 5:30 p.m.

Rt. 11 North

 

.. / V . ~ Kb
/
Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes
Daily Specrals- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

Breakfast Buffet

 

Friday and Saturday Nights l1p.m.- 4 a.m.
Sunday 9 a.m.- 2 p.m.
463-3478

Open 24 Hours

 
  

‘L

Qﬁe [fin

4

.
‘:11
-5.; '

and Restaurant

- ~.~..f 
Ail’-"f"" P

  
 
  

 ﬂit ‘Union 

Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights.’ 
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen, 
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. 

setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

   
   
    

Q///A /'  2 

 

 

   
  

  

   
  
  

 
   
  
  
 

Call to

-..

Tuesdays- International Menu Night 
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine ' 
Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle” :-
Special Winter Package 

.,.

Tuesday, Wednesday. & Thursday Only 

Jacuzzi Room $95.00 - Carriage House $85.00 
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two ' 
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays) 
Remember to make reservations for your formals for 
the upcoming month. Gift Certiﬁcates Now Available. fr’;-:.;

 Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) ,~"""»
-’ 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.

  
   
 

  

  
 
 
 

 

PAGE9

 

  
     
   
   
  
 

    

The Fling-tum Phi, January 7, 1994 ‘

     
  

    
 
  

 
 

 

 

1 g GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
 A  l Standings as of 12/01/93
I’  Menvs Basketbau Torsten Chase Swimming
_ , gi Qlan (éhristensen Soccer
' :1 Le. d’ S » cott ovey Track
E; " mg “We” Grant Cowell Track
V ~,i pi-dye, pm pfg El.'1flSIC).DlZ(l.II0Il lqiootball
' ii Cam Dyer Nil 1 .4 1m ‘C 1'50“ Clmls

lg Mark C nnell 1 7( 9.5 Ca") D)/er F00tb3ll

. ll Chris (‘iiuzen y (X: 8.3 Graig Famuzzi Baseball

- ‘rl Man Newmn go 7.4 Barton _Forman Soccer
1‘ Derek Curler 58 7.3 l}’l?l‘GG}PfTl3" (Bjﬂsebacll
. 2 R )b rl M" ' .- Sr 7.0 ~ ~ H In ross ountry,
REDUCED PRICES i ii. €‘i>t't'nli%i%‘m sei 6.8 C . d H k. §Vr6SI1ing
FRESH 93 % l-EAN ’ . cir’§i§‘srZ irZ?r ‘"” v‘ffri’§'bair
 Leading Rebounders Byandi Hgnderson Swingning
 Player Reb Avg Kim Herring r(FZrosls( Country,
, rac
  Er:':f€:i;:i, 22 3:’ ggbgn 
- - , n ra Holmes Basketball,Track
5 Robert Miggins 44 5.5 K H H
Cain Dyer 37 5 3 e y Oran Volleyball
' Betty Huynh Cross Country
Jon Coffman 20 2.5 W1” rd B b 11
I-Be Chris Couzen 17 2.1 I 0 an ase a
Loren Kessler C C t
Matt Newton 13 1.6 Jimmy Ku” G3? 0"“ ry
Holly Layman Tennis
Allison Lewis Soccer
" Free-throw Standings  Looney W'°S.m”g
y MacNaughton Tennis
1 Melissa Malone Tennis
PI’ ' . - -
" " Deiéekr Carter Ilétl//Flt:  /Iiuiirla Maﬁha“ 11- Swlmmmg
GRADE A y Chris Couzen 21/27 .778 S5; ,\‘3,’;Ee,,"}g‘,’,’° ’ Eggfjggglack
I I    £{"”bC‘:I&l.‘”",   Dane Merkel Water Polo
o er I .' . . . - ,,
ECONOMY J Matt Newtgotiilm 15) 25 .500 Cdthy Mem" Cm” C°‘”“’y’
JUMBO PACK M’ k (‘ ll min 606 Tlad‘
‘Jr ‘mm y "‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ N_3I M€SSm0r_€ Cross Country
|_|M|1' 2 Wm-1 Richard Million Golf
10.00 PURCHASE Eaulgné IR//lllta ‘LA:/1crosf)el
eu en unger ater o 0
~ . Team Records 3I'I'lC ' IC CFC! CTOSSC
,,,,,m|_B, (updated for 01/07/94) E%srlIi)i1;1l:t)srcS111(<: Ecgcsilitgilall
v womerrs Swjmm’ 3-0 Jenny Queen Volleyball
~ . Low piuciss Men’s Swimmin mg 1-0 Dan Rhodes Soccer
4 1, Men’s Basketbal 4-5 Clay Richards Tennis

 _ ' CALIFORNIA GREEN 2/99 womeiifs Basketball (2)-?)  Iiacrosse

. 2 rest in - ~ acrosse

p . _  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  O g  Russell Football

ffggis 119     5:::‘;§ii:;“ 
................. ..EA. Sarah smith Lacrosse
SNO-WHITE SLICED 39 gstigstsphanon Track .
 l: ‘ _ avi Stillman Swimming
. . . . . . . . . .8 OZ. 1 : Washington and Lee SCIl()I3l'-ALIIICLC Shelley Sunderman Tennls
     H000!‘ ROI éohhn SluTrface V. I3/ootball
. 1 .  7 _ ‘ _ _ V ery aurassi olleyball,
 16 OZ. BAG i Julie Ayers Tennis Lacrosse
la :liz.2ibeBthkIj3ahn [Volleyball Stephanie Terwell Soccer
5 . usan a win ..acrosse R b [T ~ 1? b 1]
g  l-ilizabelh Berkheiiner [football (mgr) Diiafrre Vgirnzrrgdaie Bigébii]
~ I A . l l:FTT_W!d0 BTW” SOCCCT Marina Vasilara Swimming

-  3 ,5}‘?l?'“|¢ BMW" Track Aaron Wilkinson Football

_ 5 «rr; 0  ’l‘0dd Burkcy Track James Wilson Baseball

__ ' “ 1  lara_ Burns Volleyball Reese Winpenny Football

~ , y . . I . , . , . _, ; ,_Aii i<;iC=ir,..rIngt9_n , soccer, Lacrosse Bunny Wong Track
 _ ‘ . l H6 5" Chandler TCHINS Jeff Zeiger Cross Country, .
_'  ' Track ‘
I.B.. ‘Jr |'—--.
LOW PRICES V ’ GREAT VALUE
I54 SQ. FT. PLUSH WHITE DIET COKE OR V V}

COCA COLA

 I ~;"”"""'l,“. .43-'.!r  _
Stonewall uare Shaizilng Center

CH

E5

  
  

    

-4 ROLL
PACK 6 PACK ‘°1‘é's'5’533bV
20 01. NR 72r$“r7i‘s'72rJanuary Specialsfrfriﬁrfr

 

99¢ Rentals in Foreign and Hunting

Sections
frﬁﬁikﬁﬁikikskﬁﬁﬁfr
A Wide Selection of Cassette Singles $1.00 Off or $2.49 each
- ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁfrﬁﬁﬁskﬁrkﬁ
Buy any iull-length CD and get $2.00 off each consecutive one
or V
Buy any full-length cassette and get $1.00 off each consecutive
one.
ﬁﬁﬁikﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁfrﬁ

Buy 3 comic books and get 4th one Free

Open Mon;-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m..
Sun. Noon-10 p.m. -

‘i

i-‘I

E WEELY SPECIAL FRESH FROM A E DELI-BAKERY

17' SLICED TO ORDER

MOORE'S ALPINE LACE
‘POTATO CHIPS SWISS CHEESE

our our  499  

 ‘6 OZGET ONE

eiiirirré FREE
HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY
e

  REGULAR OR LIGHT
ICE CREAM ”A""°"

YOGIIRT
  .5 369
  °r‘»ill“

 

L.j

Gel B0111’ “III. Together

The
Point of View

Restaurant

Lip Egan i5 here

FrIilngClnn.Zl,1ElEll-I

Elluilrnt Fnuugn
Ragistfﬁtiﬂn Dggins
3113 etlneﬁdag Jan. I3
lllsillt the E9-9p
Flllll Pi-iiiiead Go to

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing (about 9 pm.)

$2 off any pasta dinner with
student I.D.

ROCl<bRIdur AREA RElii_=F Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn
ASS()(TlAIlON K J

31 100

I 994

l I994. ln gm“ Stores
ers. We G udly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

S I uclrm I 5 Ac.AiNsi l\/IUITIDIE
SCIFROSIS

Prices Efecfive Through Januaroyl I,

P’ l.Th‘AdEli l’ Wed d,J ’ 5TIi hWed sd J I
mes O1nlyl\sNe Reseafvi;/The Riggi(ilsT<()l)lin(iiI%(DJiri><Iinliliels(.)U one Solllleloolgeciclnuory

O

  

Last Week:

MBB—W&L 70, Amherst 64
W&L 70, Va. Wesleyan 66

PAGE 10

Academic
All-Stars
grown here

SARAH ON SPORTS
BY SARAHGILBERT

  

For the first time since
the Scholar-Athlete Honor
Roll was established in
1986,73 athletes managed
to make a 3.5 or better
grade point average for fall
term.

This brings into ques-
tion the age-old theory that
all “jocks” are close to il-
literate and notoriously
slow in academic situa-
tions.

Obviously, mere ac-
ceptance to Washington
and Lee gives one _the‘dis-
tinction of being an aca-

demic cut above the -rest, -

but the myth still remains.
At every school (W&L is
no exception), some ex-
ceptional athletes who are
borderline in the admis-
sions office are given the
benefit of the doubt and
given admittance.

Many who are close to
the athletic world believe

that sports actually pro- '

mote academic excel-
lence. One coach coni-
mentcd that athletes give
up social time, not study
time, to participate in
sports. A compelling ar-
gument at a school whose
social structure is notori-
ous.
is this true at W&L?

Do athletes really give up .

their social time to run,
jump and dribble?

In some cases, perhaps
social time is decreased,
but for some reason, many
top athlete-scholars at
Washingtonand Lee seem
to be able to juggle it all:
school, sports, parties and
more.

My personal theory is
that the physical demands
and the regimen of daily
practices and re gularcom—
petitions help students to
structure their ‘time, to
eliminatethosc things that
no one thinks about but
waste so much time: soap
operas, video games,
hanging out at the Co-op.

The theory also pro-
pounded by many detrac-
tors from athletic intelli-
gence is the “easy-A” idea,
the concept that athletes
somehow choose easier
majors, schedules and
teachers with the help of
their coaches so they will
have more time to devote
to their sport.

W&L, however, has
many notable scholars on
the honor roll who show
the lie of that idea. Biol-
03)/, chemistry and his-
tory, some of the most dif-
ficult majors here, all have
members among the
Scholar—Athlete list.

Of course, athletes are
not the only ones at Wash-
ington and Lee to make
the honor roll, but I be-
lieve they are on to some-
thing. Bither the very pres-
ence of the demanding
regimen is helpful to the
scholar, or the person who
has the dedication to par-
ticipate in athletics at a
difficult school such as this
has an inherent ability to
apply himself that tran-
scends sports.

Admittedly, athletes
who could not even make
a 3.0 are on the rosters of
some teams. But statistics

like that of the women’s
cross-country team, which
achieved an average GPA
of3.570,andthewomen’s
lacrosse team, which
placed nine members on
the Dean’s List, prove that
academic/athletic success
is no ﬂuke.
Congratulations to the
athletesatwashington and
Lee.

 

  3

@112 itting-tum ilﬂht

PORTS  

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

This Week:

MBB—Roanoke 01/08

WBB—at Wesley 01/08, at Va.
Wesleyan 01/09

Wrest—at West. Maryland 01/08

JANUARY 7, 1994

asketball surprises with streak’

Sophomore Cam Dyer shoots over his Virginia
Wesleyan opponents in the Generals’ upset Dec. 4.

 

Wrestling

Washington and Lee wrestling
is gearing up for the second half
ofthe season by preparing forthc
Western Maryland Quadrangu-

lar. Thc mcct
marks the first

J OCKSHORTS

Scholar-Athletes

Seventy-three Washington
and Lee athletes achieved grade
point averages of3.5 or more for
the 1993 fall semester, the most

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team won for the third
straight time Tuesday, beating defending Old Dominion Athletic
Conference champion Virginia Wesleyan, 70-66. The victory gave
the Generals their first three-game winning streak since early last
season.

W&L’s Warner Center has been the site of all three wins, each one
considered an upset. Sunday, the Generals topped Amherst, 70-64.

Amherst came to Lexington at 8-0 and ranked second in the
Northeast. Twenty-ﬁve days earlier, W&L beat Emory and Henry
before breaking forfall exams.

lfthe Generals (4-5, 2-3 ODAC) are to make it four in a row, it will
have to be four big upsets in a row. Archrival Roanoke College (10-
1, 4-1 ODAC) visits the Warner Center on Saturday carrying a six-
game winning streak. Since the Maroons’ lone defeat,'a 101-96
shoot—out at Emory and Henry, they have beaten their last six
opponents by an average of 20 points.

Virginia Wesleyan entered the game versus the Generalsjust 2-6
for the season, but had two-time all-conference center Rick Chalk
back from a knee injury. Chalk totaled 19 points and 5 rebounds for
the game, but it was not enough for the Marlins.

W&L held a 31-25 lead after 20 minutes, inspiring nearly all ofthe
375 supporters in attendance to stick around for the second half.
Virginia Wesleyan then took advantage of some officiating calls
against W&L and went on a 15-3 run.

The Generals fought back and regained the lead following a
technical foul call on the Marlins coach. After the lead swung back
to Virginia Wesleyan, sophomore Derek_Carter (12 points, four
rebounds) connected on one of his two three-pointers and put the
Generals on top to stay. ~ _ ‘

Sophomore guard Jon Coffman hit 4-of-5,foul shots in the final 25
seconds to ice the win. Coffman, who scored all ofhis 1 7 points from
the foul line (5-of-6) and three-point arc (4-for-5), was joined in
double figures by Carter and senior guard Matt Newton (13 points).
Sophomore Cam Dyer and freshman Chris Couzen added nine points
each.

The Marlins became the seventh consecutive team that Washing-

ton and Lee has held below 50 percent shooting. Although the
Generals shot well below that mark Tuesday, they connected on 8-of-

14 three-pointers as a team. They will likely need more ofthe same ’

from downtown if they are to upset Roanoke on Saturday. 0

The seven-time ODAC champions are anchored this year by 6’5"
senior Hillary Scott. Scott, like Chalk, was a first-team all ODAC
pick last season when he averaged 20.5 points, seven rebounds, and
shot 56 percent from the field. This season, Scott_’s numbers are down
slightly to 17.8 points-per-game and 50 percent shooting, but senior
Kevin Martin andjunior Bryant Lee are contributing a combined 26
points-per-contest. g

Saturday’s game will be the 81st between the two rivals. Roanoke
has won the last five, but the Generals have plenty of reasons to be
optimistic. They defeated the only team to beat Roanoke (E&H) and
their four-point win over Virginia Wesleyan matched the margin of
Roanoke’s victory against the Marlins. Aside from the three-game
winning streak, they have won back-to-back ODAC games for I‘
first time since 1990-91. So perhaps Saturday the W&L faithfuldw
be able to p-.-.t aside their “That’s all right, that’s okay...” chants.

Sophomore Jonathan Coffman jukes his defender,
helping to lead the Generals to a 70-66 win.

orees were senior lohn Surface,
two-time all-conference football
lineman; senior Corinda Hankins,
all-region women’s soccer
player; and the leading scorer of
each basketball team, sopho-

mores Cam

AwAv GAMES
BY STEPHEN W1LL1.ARD

competition for
the Generals
sinccplzicingtliin
Iccnlh at the
Lebanon Valley
lnvilationalzillIhc
way back on Dec
4.

/\l this
wcckcndfs [our-

Dyer and

S a-n d r a _

Holmes‘ Well. hopctully everyone
The high_ had a great break and is thrilled

estteam hOn_ to be back in that hotbed of

0,5 were Cap_ cullurc known as Lexington.

lured by the Virginia. Llnfortunaic|_v. the

sports news recently has been
dominated by tragedy oncc
again.lustwhcnwcthoughtthc
Monica Sclcs incident was be-

w o m e n ’ 5
cross country
team, which
earned an av-

,1-,,,n¢m‘[iw Vt/&|, “age of hind us’. anotlicr athlcic W'2l.\‘11l~
‘quad Wm Cm“. 3570‘ me lucked lliursday.‘ A

pc[C,,g,,,',Nj(,h,,, only mam to lhc lalcsl victim of an ax-
H(,pk;n, and Score Over siiull was chziinpionship figurc
M C 5 5 i L, h _ 3.5_Thehigh_ skater Nancy lxcrrigan. Whilc
\}\/hcmcl [ht M1,. est GPA for a coming oil the ice in a practice

oil" will affect the
team remains to
be seen as the
Generals look to
improve the win-
ning mark set by
this year’s winter
sports (10-8, 65-
63-1 overall).

rink in Detroit. Kcrrigan was
attacked by an unknown assail-
amwithabillyclubtypc object
inthc backofihc legs. The man
escaped through ii Plexiglas

men’s team
was the 3.176
of the men’s
cross country

team. _ _ ,
other no_ door into the crowd follownig

table teams ”l°}‘”‘‘C_k-_ ‘ , I _

included the The assault puts Kcrrigan s

womenrs ja_ Olympic hopes in jeopardy as

This yemis Crosse team, the final competition ‘Will be
wrestling [cam is winners of l‘Fld2{)/. Kcrrigan musttinish in
jedmme moment two ODAC the top two to advance to the
by sopummc Champiom winter Olympics in
(‘me Van Nice Ships in the Lillihammcr. Previously, she
with d 5.} record past two was viewed as the favorite to
on [he Season, years, which winlhcDetroitcompetitionand

Van Nicc placed
fourth in lhc 191)

lb. weight clzissal the Lebanon
VallcymccI.(‘olin l.ooncy(177)
and Adam Brzinson (1 18) placed

cighlh loi lllL‘UCl1Clill.\.

Basketball adds players,
comes back with two Wins

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

athletes to make the honor roll

since the Scholar-Athlete honor

roll was established in 1986.
Notable among the list ofhon-

zilrczidy ownsa bronze Olympic
medal.

lliiloriunalcly. two assaults
have been the catalyst for in-
crcascd security for sports cc-
lcbriiics. There have bccnclosc
calls in Ilic past. howcvcr. First
baseman Wally Joy nci riarrowly
avoided scvcrc injury when it
fun Ihrcv» 2ll(l1ll.Clil'Ol'1'lIl'lC stands
in Anaheim Stadium in (‘alifor—
nia. Also.2iftcrthc 1981 World
Series. Davc Winfield of the
New York Yankees wore a bul-
lci-proofvcst during 21 parade in
New York after the Yankees

claimed nine
. members of
the Scholar-Athlete list, includ-
ing all three captains, seniors
Angie Carrington, Pauline Mita
and Sarah Smith.

By BILL RUST
Phi Staff Writer

lost the Series.
Finis in professional sports
have unparalleled access to the

The women‘s basketball team pulled out of a three game skid with two victories before break. The
Lady Generals overcame St. Marys, 60-57. and crushed Wesley, 55-22.

The Wesley Wolverines could not get a shot off against the Generals shootingjust 15.9 percent (10
for 63). in the Dec. 6 victory.

Wasliingioii and Lee had only 21 six point lead at the half (20-14), but soon went on a 15-minute
shooting spree in which they outscored the hapless Wolverines 25-2. '

Sophomore Sandra Holmes led W&L to victory with 17 points, 12 boards, and five assists. She now
lcuds the team in pk>l1ll.\—pC1’-géllllc (9.8). assists (1 1), and rcbounds—pcr-game (6.2). Freshman Virginia
Yocrg chippcd in with 13 points. and senior Nicky May/field had eight points and nine rebounds.

Wesley will have its chzincc in revenge against the Generals this Saturday in Dover Delaware.

In £1 slightly more suspciisetul game. W&L mounted a comc-from-behind victory over St. Mary’s
(M1)) on Dcc. 3. Junior Amy Vogi scored late in the second half to give the Lady Generalsa 57-55 lead,
\\ hich was secured \\l1t:11.\<.‘1llU1' l\'iiicn Siuizman stole the inbounds pass and scored two free throws.

Both Siuiznian and Holmes turned in outstziiiding performances. with 15 points each. Freshman

\’l1'gllll21 Yocrg led lhc Iciini with ninc rebounds.
lhc \ icior) wiistliclcziiiifs 1‘ii‘sI.v;ii‘sily win.

Wiiiier break brought changes to the 1,.ad_\ Gciicrals roster. Amy Vogt, the hero of the team’s first

\ iciory. left for lhc wiiiier term to study in l‘l2ll1Cc. She was replaced by junior Sarah Aschenbach, and

junior transfer student Amy Mihal.
9 A'schciib:ich) was one of the top scorers on last ycar’s club team, and is member ofthe lacrosse team.
M ihail comes to W&L from Randolph Macon Womcn’s College. She played for the club team when she

was attending W&L as part of an exchange program.

The iC1l111 11C.‘<lpld_V.\'ll1lS Saturdziy. .1

Wesleyan.

an. 8. against Wesley. and this Sunday. Jan. 9, against Virginia

players (How many recall at
least one incident of a fan run-
ning out onto the field at an
cvcnt. and what about Charles
B2irklcy‘s numerous hcck|crs-
lhcy were closc cnough for him
to spll all’). 11 is sad that lhc
world of sports has bcconic ll
diiiigcrous world for lhc zilli-

lclcs.
On 11 lighter iiolc. lhc Na-
lionul1-ooibzilllczigiicplayolils

M Violent, fanatic spectators ,
bring new meaning to “fan”

  §l£QlllE lfniglt. Em

begin this weekend. This is one
prediction that l’ll eat: Sorry,
Dolphins fans, I thought so too,
ifthat’s any consolation. Ycah,l
know 1 said that they would rep-
resent the American Football
(‘onferciicc in the Superbowl,
and I am now being flogged by 21
Houston fan and a Buffalo fan
simultaneously for that predic-
tion. For those of you who were
in a stupor all during break. the
"Dolphins didn’t even make the
playoffcut after :1 9-2 start to the
season. The Updated prediction be emotional about leaving
is l)allas (at least the Cowboys the Dallas Mavericks?
havc come through for me.) vs. Maybe you were thinking
Houston in an all Texas about the possible poin
Superbowl (Hey Mark, don‘t spreads on games after your
hosc your shorts yet, dude. the departure.
Giants. 49ers, and Bills might On a final note, 1 would
have something to say about that like to go on the record not-
match-up.) ing that the Atlantic Coast
Parting Shots— Conference has the number
1-et"s root forthe Bills. After two and three teams in thC
allnoimanyteams haveachance nation (Duke and North
to lose FOUR times in a row. Carolina). and that the best
Also, ‘maybe then people would basketball in the nation is
quit comparing the Braves and played inthe red clay ofNC.
Bills. 1 mean, come on, the Auf Wiedersehen!

Braves have only lost three
years in a row. Braves in ’94,
baby! .

Hopefully, the
Superbowl will be a winner
this year. Can we PLEASE
have a close game’? The last
few games have strongly re-
sembled certain pledge-ac-
tive football contests wit
the possible exception that
the AFC team DID score in
the Superbowls.

Derek. HOW could you

rrnlsl '

 

 

 

