eekend Weather

artly sunny, high in tow 70s
' ‘ artly cioudy, near5O

tly cloudy, 30 percent

‘ wars; High in upper

213031]   ’
“Sunday '(3_ anee°otshowers,j . ~
~ zthti deirstorms, highs‘ near

i 70 .

.IA‘.VEi.‘3 G. LEYEUPIN Ll " ‘ ' '
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

Meet the candidate°s°l3.5‘9 Women’s tennis

Freshman elections
on Monday

0112 iting-tum Iﬂlii

VOLUME 93, NO. 06

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Flush!!!

Kappa Alpha Theta sisters cruise down Main Street on their way-to a victory in
_ Ute Homecoming Parade float competition. Thetas threw custom-made minia-
ture footballs from the float in honor of this year’s football game.

Photo by Bethany Smith, Thé'Ir‘i’ng—tum Phi

NAACP may examine
VMI racial incident

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer
As the Virginia NAACP considers the incident

, of mcial threats at Virginia Military Institute in its

g annual convention, cadets report that the issue has

* been taken too far.

 “It’s been completely blown out of proportion,”

j said VMI first—classman Douglas Estes.

V The state branch of the National Association for

; the Advancement of Colored People considers the
top‘ too hot to discuss until a decision has been

‘ made at the state convention. The decision, at press

. time, was expected at any minute.

_ “It’s a timing thing,” said first-classman Zack
Scott. “The NAACP just happened to be meeting
this week, so they picked up the issue.”

Meanwhile, rumors run around the East Coast.
“ y uncle from North Carolina called and asked
about the cadet killed in racial beatings,” said Estes.

I “And then my mom’s hairdresser in Raleigh asked

Clark xlilains do

her about a black cadet killed in a racial incident.”

Estes also reported a magazine article which
castigated VMI for having the “nerve” to not only
refuse to admit women, but to decide to stop
admitting black cadets.

Sources say the current theory on campus isthat
a cadet who really disliked the victim of the threats
simply took his hatred too far.

“He’s the kind of guy that you either really like
or really dislike,” said one ﬁrst-class source. ‘‘It
wasn’t as much the fact that he was black as the fact
that somebody just disliked him personally, and
took the race factor on as well.”

While rumors run across state lines, national
and state organizations decide their opinions, the
FBI investigates, and media on every level inves-
tigate, the cadets have forgotten the incident.

“I’m not seeing any FBI. I’m not seeing any
police. I’m not seeing anybody,” said Estes.

Scott agreed.

“It’s old news,” he said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 15, 1993

Reviewof Honor
System in Works

By THOMAS Hesros
Phi News Editor

seniors Nathan Dunn, Cameron Howell and

John Richert; Second-year law

student Ashley Rowe; and

A committee of nine students has begun
the process of reviewing the White Book and
may change the Honor System at Washing-

ton and Lee.

At its regular Monday meeting, the EC
heard the ﬁrst report from the White Book
Review Committee, a group composed of
EC-appointed students that will review the

Honor System.

“We haven’t discussed very much sub-
stantially,” said committee Chair Ames

Hutton.

The group is composed of nine students:
Hutton, freshman Adam Branson; sopho-

Stakes.

than the EC’s.

Hutton.
EC

Third-year law student Mike

Hutton said the group will
receive a list of Honor System
criticisms from the EC, but is
also looking for input other

“The committee is very
much interested in input from
the W&L community,” said

President

Bob Tompkins

Tompkins agreed that the EC

mores Caroline Guerin and Harris Morrison; at.

IFC to review Rush

Tear Night presents conflicts for next year

By NANCY PAVLOVIC
Phi Managing Editor

If the fraternities liked this
year’s Rush, they’d better hold
onto their pants next year when
Tear Night will fall on Home-
coming weekend.

But that may be achange un-
der consideration in the last two—
and—a—half weeks of October as
the Interfratemity Council and
fraternities began examining the
new Rush system.

“Right now, we want to get
feedback on all the changes we’ve
made,” IFC Vice President Ryan
Donaldson said. “We’re trying
to fine tune Rush, not really
change it.”

According to IFC President
Curt Smith, fraternity members
were pleased with the way Rush
worked. ‘

“There weren’t a lot of com-
ments [at the meeting] because
there seemed to be a general con-
sensus that the system worked
pretty well.”

Sigma Nu Rush Chairman
Brain McClung said the new sys-
tem addressed many of last year’s
concerns about Rush.

‘‘I think we accomplished a
lot of what we set out to do,”
McClung said.

Under the new rush system,
closed contact rules went into
effect when the freshmen arrived
and lasted until the Wednesday
night before classes. Under

g laws

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS

Phi Executive Editor

a bundle.

Man’s best friend can sometimes create a
student’s greatest problems.

Any dog running at large, without dog tags, or
without a rabies vaccination can cost a pet owner

According to Lexington Animal Control Of-

closed contact, upperclassmen
and freshmen men are not al-
lowed to talk to each other or
associate in any way. Casual and
open contact began that Wednes-
day evening, with formal Rush
beginning thesecond Monday of
classes. Rush Counselors and
open houses for all 16 fraterni-
ties were also added this year.

Under the old Rush rules,
freshmen and upperclassmen
were under closed contact rules
untilalmostoneweekafterfresh-
men arrived on campus. At the
start of Rush, freshmen cut six
houses from their list and chose
only nine houses to visit during
open houses.

Rush Counselors were seen
as the most effective addition to
this year’s Rush.

“General consensus was that
Rush Counselors were effective
and very helpful,” Smith said.
“We just need to train them
sooner and better.”

Smith said the majority of the
fine-tuning would revolve around
the open contact period and the
effectiveness of the open houses
for all 16 fraternities.

“We need to look at the open
contact period and whether the
time frame needs to be adjusted
or the entire period changed,”
Smith said. “Although people
were generally satisfied with the
16 open houses, some felt [they]
would be more effective if we
had more open contact after-

should not be the only force in determining
what Honor System issues should be looked

“I think the purpose of this is to have input

from the EC, but not to have the
EC pulling the strings,” said
Tompkins at Monday’s EC
meeting.

Hutton said the committee
planned to get input on honor
issues by polling the students,
faculty and administration. But
Hutton said the purpose of the
committee is not only to review
the Honor System, but to “edu-
cate the students first, so that
they know what they’re talking
about.”

The committee may also

sponsor debates in Lee Chapel or in the

I-vsee EC, page 4

wards.”

Lambda Chi Alpha President
Robert Ferris thought the 16 open
houses were beneficial to most
houses. I,

“The 16 houses helped out a
lot of the houses,” Ferris said.
“lt’s fairer to the freshmen be-
cause last year they had that ﬁrst
weekend to narrow 15 down to
nine houses so if you heard one
bad thing, you didn’t go check
that house out.”

McClung agreed adding the
open houses worked to his
fratemity’s advantage.

“The 16 open houses, al-
though a strain on fraternity mem-
bers and freshmen, are benefi-
cial. There are some guys we met
only during the open houses that
are now in our pledge class,”
McClung said.

But Phi Gamma Delta Presi-
dent Moke Wolfe said the 16
houses were “useless.”

“By the time open houses
came, the freshmen had already
decided where they wanted to
go,” Wolfe said.

Sigma Phi Epsilon President
James Hess thought the open
houses were a good ideabut came
too late.

“It’s good to have the fresh-
men go to all 16 houses, but
people have already made their
decision at the parties before they
made it to open houses,” Hess
said.

McClun g said the open houses

were a worthwhile part of Rush
and should not be discontinued.

“Our house [Sigma Nu] and
Chi Psi are really in favor of it,”
McClung said. “Houses that usu-
ally had a good Rush thought it
was a waste.”

Some have suggested switch-
ing the period of open contact
with the open houses but such a
move would mean the periods of
open contact would then have to
be dry. Since formal Rush is free
of alcohol, any period between
open houses and Tear Night
would also have to be subjected
to all the rules and regulations
applying to formal Rush.

Smith said switching open
houses with the open contact pe-
riod just is not possible.

‘‘If you have open houses,
Rush has begun. You can’t just
start and stop,” Smith said. “ln
the in—between period, you’re in
violation.”

“Open houses should be
moved up to the ﬁrst week,”
Wolfe said. ‘‘It’d be better for the
freshmen to come tocampus, then
have the open houses and then
have two weeks of open contact.
Then have a week of formal Rush
activities.”

Ferris suggested another band
party after the open houses could
help some freshmen decide where
to pledge.

“Another band party could

bsee IFC, page 4

ficer R.D Clark, the biggest problem created by
student’s pets is when the animals run loose. The
Lexington leash law states that a dog must be
“under owner’s immediate control.”

When a student’s dog is picked up, it is taken
back to the student, if the dog is registered with
the city.

If the dog is not registered, it is taken to the
shelter, where the boarding fees are $8 a day. If
a ticket is issued, the pet owner must pay a ﬁne
set by a judge.

A dog that bites someone and is not vacci-
nated against rabies must""be boarded in the
SPCA shelter for ten days, which costs $80. By
law, every dog staying in the Commonwealth of
Virginia for longer than 30 days must be vacci-
nated for rabies.

Clark’s chief concern is animals being hit by
cars. He said any student who hits an animal

Not paying tax may damage credit

property tax which also applies to boats, motor-
cycles, trucks, and business property and equip-
ment. The tax is known as a car tax because it
applies predominantly to automobiles. The tax
applies to anyone who has an out-of—state car in
Virginia for more than six months. Ellestad said
there is no double taxation—if the student pays a
car tax in another state, he doesn’t have to pay a tax
in Virginia. If the vehicle is registered in another
locality but is garaged in Lexington for more than
six months out of the year, the student pays the tax
in Lexington.

Ellestad said that the real difficulty in collecting
the tax is determining exactly where the vehicle is

bsee CAR TAX, page 4

By MICHAEL Hr~:wLr~:i'r
Phi Staff Writer

Have you paid your car tax lately? If not, you
might have to dig into your wallet a little bit.

Last year, the car tax sparked controversy when

the city of Lexington proposed to apply the car tax

to Washington and Lee students. Some members

of the W&L community, including President John

Wilson, thought this was unfair. But in order to

“W” ‘° ‘°‘ him "“°“"’ °* "WY may *’° °““g°" £?$§°c'I.'.‘i.'.‘§.I§§i'f.'§.‘é'i’§iI‘§ §‘§.tf}i‘;§f;“§L?§‘u%”§Z.§l°

 I with hit and run. _ , ‘

. '  . But Clark said students have not had many quem ta’.‘Pay‘_’rs: 1°“ Euefstad’ I-’°x”‘g'°“ C"? man‘

Photo by Bethany Smith, T’1€’R'"8"""' Phi problems with the new laws ager, said this IS the third year that the city has

This dog has a leash, but unless it is under an owner’s control, it may ' actively pursued payment of taxeson automobiles.

“So far I haven’t picked up many animals; _ _
end up taking a ride with Animal Control Officer R.D. Clark. I’m reauy pleased)’ According ‘O Ellestada the C“ W‘ '5 3 Personal

0

  
  
  
    
  
     
     
 
     
      
  
   
     
    
       
    
   
     
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
 

 

Demographic shows 
more foreign students

The Rin -tum Phl October 15 1993

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

   

  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

    

     

 

e or r 1 
most representatives was Pennsylva-

° ‘ ° By STEPHEN WILLIARD nia with 146. International students
Alde_ed calls for cease flre phi staff writer (such as our friend from Kirghiz) ac-

Somali warlord Mohamed Farah Aideed called for a A/iérlgiéma counted for 31 total students. This
cease-fire in the four-month conﬂict between his forces A k na _ _ _ number has dnnhled in the P35615
and American-led United Nations troops late Saturday Califbriiisiaig D0 y°" k“°“' whm K“gh‘z ‘S7 Yem-

, , . ' Colora Someone at Washington & Lee deﬁ- One criticism of the school has been
Th 11 f r t d fte Aideed do . .

e ca . or a cease- ire Came _juS ays 3 _l' “ Connecticut nitely knows——that person lives there. itslackofethnicdiversity. WhenW&L
urged his troops to increase their attacks against U.S. Delaware The Admissions department proudly students were asked about this in the
Colonjalismf’  . states its goal is to put together a class past, only 25% found the school lack-

C? that is “geographically, ethnically, and ing.
0 Hawgaii culturally diverse.” “It’s hard to attract ethnic and reli- 7.
UoNo relmposes embarg0 Idaho True t0 form, Washington and Lee gious minorities, ” stated Dittman. “l
0 0 Illinois has put together a motley crew of stu- would like to see it more diverse be-
on Halt] Indliggivzéll dents from every imaginable region of cause I learn a lot from the different
- ~ - H - - - d th the U.S. and the world._ _ . _ groups.”
H Armed civgllianlf (l?£{§:kt’;ddl)S}; t altlaélcpollge arti e  The 1993 Geographic_Distribution The University has maintained the
aitian army OC e n1 6' a CS an ana ian I‘OOpS Louisiana Survey shows students hailing from 48 goal of achieving a more nationa] ﬁg-
from docking at Port-Au-Prince on Tuesday. The troops aine states , D. C., and 19 foreign countries. vor. Throughout its recent history,
were on a mission to aid Haiti in returning to a democratic M Magyland southern Northern western _ “Th?-_SnW¢Y has atwftys been Some’; Washington & _1-Ce has steadily F133’ ed '
goverment from a military dictatorship. The United asslélcicgisggls ;iz1i1n§0lfj1[r1Iit:2crSsIitt<>atiilzlegttggetéiggit 8IV1VaY tth°th]th°/‘(teal “’jf.”‘° ‘°°I“)l.l'b°’a'
Nations planned to have deposed Haitian President Jean- Minnesota Numbers obtained from the Registrar. Diﬁman y g 3.1.: 5° .°° ' °°°’ "'3 ;° '"m‘;:."
' ' ' M1SS1SSippi Western is West of th M‘ ' ' "S h ' - - - eye '5.“ .awaren.es.s° geograp 1'
B6Itrand A1'lSl1dC back In pOW6I‘   30. The  . e lsslsslppla. out em The unlverslty census a]So pro‘/Ides cal divers"), In adnnsslons.”
Pentagon ordered the U.S. Navy ship carrying the troops Montana ‘“"'”d"5 T_°’“’S’ A’k“"5“5’ 3"“ F‘°"d3? 3"“ data On €thniCit)',re1igi0"S Ptnference. Concordingly, the numbers of stu-
to leave Haitian Waters on wedneSday_ on Thursday, the  Northern IS North of Ken and and areas of study for all students dents admitted from the state of Vin‘
U.N. Security Council voted unanimously to reimpose New Ham Shire Etetédetgtad and law) 3‘ Wa5h"‘gt°" & g::n1c1;nl:V:o<1f;>ri3%d éizlyrsizffclittgfggtnit ‘
th? _0i1 embargo and to freeze the finatlcjal aS_Set$ of the blliaex/VM%I;fi%36 Virginia paced the list with 336 I1)973 to §36 this yezllr) as Washington
military leaders who prevented the ship s arrival. New York students The state with the second & Lee has expanded its h0,;zo,,s_
North Carolina
North Dakota 1
e a   Penns  Non-resident alien |1.29l6 .\
- Rhocfé Island I,
South Carolina Native American 0.1%
_ Tenngssee t
exas . .
   Utah M"m'ra°'al/other 02%! Numbers obtained from the
Suicide Doctor Jack Kevorkian lost his second court étilgigt His am '0 8%!’ Registrar; Total number of .
battle for ignoring Michigan’s ban on assisted suicide. Washington P - I students: 1,960, including the
Kevorkian helped a 73-year-old man to kill himself last W€S\iVVlI’g1I11_a Black !3_-,~'% Law 5°h°°’~
month. Michigan State District Court Judge Karen  '
Khalil said Kevorkian could remain free on bond and ' , Asian ht-7916
scheduled arraignment for October 26. 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 I""""' ' “ "
39 33 § 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39
0 O O O O O O O O O O 0
Post Office gets face lift * ‘“ ‘° " “’ ‘° “ °° °’ 9
The Post Office is getting a face lift. The United States _
Postal service plans to spend $7 million to replace the 9 _
logos on post offices, vehicles and mailboxes. The Postal 11  S Wa a   C c  .
Service is faced with a $1.3 billion operating deficit this ,
year. 9

From St3ffReP0l‘tS Prizesihave bee" donated f°r the °.V°..“t by 10931  *3» Registration will begin at 12:30 p.m. and will cost '

. businesses and merchants, and will be distributed to -~ ’ ' - - -

those who turn in the most pledge money at registra- iilelllijggl-elalllezhsd atrliaeal/A2/i<l9lLzll.)leCc?-toDo'l‘nliiang2ulr3saeni'(s
tion. The first 100 registrants will receive Making approximatebi ﬁve miles Ion Thig event is bei

Strides shoelaces, and all those turning in more than Sponsored by Chi Ome a somgit Al ha phi Omeng
$50 Wm "’°°lVe 3 Making Strides T'5htt't~ service fraternity of Vli/ll and Ca)tholi[c) Campus 
WaI;§’itI11°rt:1)trlYz:3r:’d'°IlJt‘*';1‘t:{;"z:t’:ll*‘eTt“i  Euckt 1495113 Of istry, andwill take place regardless of the weather. In
. g _ _ C P3 me“ a T°°°VeT‘ case of rain, those not wishing to walk are asked to turn
"18 from Chromc leukemta and r°°°m5P1°°" 5“t’89TYa their money in at registration, or mail a check to the

and George Cunningham, still running marathons American Cancer 5 - t PO B 100 Le - t
despite removal of his larynx years ago. For more informigfnrcail ,i63(_)§533_’ xmg 0"’

Clintonli1i5ges.anti-crime- -
legislation

President Clinton urged Congress Saturday to pass
anti-crime legislation this year. The legislation would
impose a five-day waiting period for handgun purchases,

add police officers and set-up boot camps for young
offenders.

On Sunday, participants in the fifth annual Mak-
ing Strides Against Cancer event for the Rockbridge
Unit of the American Cancer Society will attempt to
chaseaway cancer.

The event will take place at 1:30 p.m., beginning in
the Harris Teeter parking lot. To participate, cancer
patients, family members, friends and the public
obtain sponsors to honor their efforts as they run,
walk, and bike across a set course.

 

Jurors replaced

in Denny trial

Judge John W. Ouderkirk, presiding judge in the
Reginald Denny trial, replaced two jurors this week. The
jury has reached a verdict on two of the counts against
Henry Watson, one of the two men on trail for beating
Denny during the riots after the April 1992 acquittal of
four Los Angeles police officers in the beating of Rodney
King. Watson and Damian Williams face 12 charges,
including attempted murder.

Sports

Phillies and Jays advance
to World Series

The Philadelphia Phillies defeated the Atlanta Braves
in six games in the National League Championship
Series. Philadelphia ended the Braves’ hopes of becom-
ing the first National League team to win three straight
pennants since the 1942-44 St. Louis Cardinals. The
Phillies’ Most Valuable Player was pitcher Curt Schilling.

The Toronto Blue Jays earned a second consecutive
World Series berth by defeating the Chicago White Sox
in six games. Jays’ pitcher Dave Stewart snagged the
most Valuable Player prize after winning both of his
starts.

Redskins suffer worst
loss at RFK

The Washington Redskins endured a 41-7 spanking at
the hands of the New York Giants on Sunday. The 34-
point loss was the Redskins’ worst at RFK stadium in
team history. Redskins coaches admit to having their
“worst day” in the historic loss.

Seles’ attacker goes free

Guenter Parche, the man who stabbed Monica Seles
on court last April, became a free man Wednesday after
receiving a suspended sentence from a judge in Ham-
burg, Germany. Seles was reported to be distraught,
saying that she was shocked by the decision.

SCC president
plans for the year

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Approaching his second year as Stu-
dent Conduct Committee president,
Rajeev Aggarwal is coming in with ex-
perience and some definite goals for the
SCC and its role in the Washington and
Lee community.

Aggarwal’s first goal concerned the
clarification of the SCC’s function and
policies.

“We are going to put out a pamphlet
describing all the procedures in detail,
especially because many studentson cam-
pus have voiced questions about the roles
of the SCC,” said Aggarwal.

“The pamphlet is a big goal,” he said.
“We want to give deﬁnition and clarity
to these ambiguities.”

Aggarwal cited the appeals process
for those who have been expelled by the
SCC, of which many students are igno-
rant.

An appeals board made up of the
Executive Committee president, the Dean

of Students, and a senior faculty mem-
ber reviews appeals cases, and can rec-
ommend that the SCC re-hear the
student’s case.

“This only happens in a case where a
student gets thrown outof school, which
doesn’t happen very often,” said
Aggarwal. “There has been one in the
last four or five years.”

Aggarwal hopes to formulate a plan
in which appeals could be overturned by
the student body, similar to the process
currently used for honor violation ap-
peals.

“lt’s a personal goal of mine to give
students some kind of recourse besides
going to the appeals board in extreme
cases,” he said.

Aggarwal also wants to publicize the
fact that the SCC hears harassment cases,
because many students do not realize
that the SCC and EC have different
functions.

He also mentioned a fourth goal.

“Lastly, I want to serve justice to the
students.”

ethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
Assistant Director of Alumni Programs Rob Mish treats
himself to the festivities on Homecoming Weekend.

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 

 

Blood drive attracts.
more students

By IJOURRAINE TioAs
Phi Staff Writer

Chi Psi cosponsored the biannual
Bloodmobile on October 6. Over 100
people participated, donating a pint of
blood each, an increase from last fall.

Chi psi sophomore Josh Nitsche
said taht the number of participants
was “a good number because there was

a lot of sickness going around,” which‘

disqualified a number of students.
The Bloodmobile was held in

Doremus Gymnasium from 11 a.m. to
5p.m. One hundred and ﬁfteen peoplt
signed up to donate blood, but some
were released during the process for
various reasons, said Chi Psi junior
Bart Sterling.

Chi Psi has been cosponsoring the
Bloodmobile with the American Red
Cross since the mid-80s, said Sterling;

There will be another blood drive in
the spring. Chi Psi expects a bigger
turnout then because only one sport is
in season. Athletes are unable to do-
nate blood during their sport’s season.

0

  
  
 
   
  
   
    

  

   
   
   

9
' he Ring-tum Phi; October 15, 1993

Freshmen office hopefuls sound-off

What are your qualiﬁcations and past leadership

experiences?

What are your goals if elected?

?,What are the reasons for your candidacy?
‘What issues do you think will be important in the

campaign in the coming year? How do you stand on

, those issues?

Freshman elections will take place on Mon-
way, October 18. The elected offices are: EC
representative, class president, and class vice
president. A survey of the candidates yielded

. the following responses to ﬁve basic questions.

Some candidates were unavailable for com-

meg.

EC candidates

Robert Elam

1) Leadership
team representative,
President of 2 clubs,
author of high school
constitution.

2) “I hope to do
my best to maintain
the highest standards
of honesty.”

3) “The only rep-
resentative from the
freshman class in the
EC must represent all

students. I want to be that person.”
4) The EC’s policy for funding organiza-
tions and White Book revision

ndy Hooper
A 1 Eagle scout,
Student Council of-
ficer, National Honor
Society member.

2) “I want to main-

in the current sys-
"e whileconstantly
checking its effec-
tiveness . . . I would
like to see the Honor
system applied more
in the gym.

3) “I want to preserve the Honor System
here because I witnessed the decay of my high
sch ol one.”

4) In favor of constant review of the White

Book but only with consideration of the rami-  .-

fications to the system.

Marcus Rayner

1) President of
Model United Na-
tions, Student repre-
sentative to Board of
Education, Student
Council (4 years)

2) “I want to be
the freshman voice in
the EC, and to sup-
port adherence to the
Honor System.”

3) “I love W&L, I

want a fair and accessible EC.”
4) Opposed to EC funding of ideologically
partisan organizations

Paul Saboe

1)Interact Presi-
dent, Future Business
Leaders of America
Regional President,
Youth and Govem-
ment Club President.

2) ‘‘I would en-
force the Honor Sys-
tem justly. I would
promote the improve-
ment of W&L—VMI
relations and the re-
vitalization of Gaines Hall.”

3) “I am running
to provide the mem-
bers of the Freshman
class with an effec-
tive voice on the EC.”

4) honesty, integ-
rity, accountability

Justin St. Clair
1) “I’m a highly
V organized, highly

 moti.Vated,«.W6.1J.—in-. .

formed person.”
2) “I want to provide a liason between the
EC and the freshman class.”

Presidential candidates
Kevin Alexander

1) “I’m a respon-
sible people person.”

2) “I want to make
sure all of the fresh-
men enjoy their first
year in college.”

3) “I want to be
involved in W&L
life.”

4) “Maintaining
academic excellence
while maintaining
freshman happi-
ness.”

Sara Benson
1) Student body
president, National
Honor Society vice
president, Captain of
varsity volleyball and
soccer.
2) “I want to make
each member of our
freshman class feel as
though they are an im-
portant part of the
W&L community.”
3) I believe that I
would be an effective class president because I
am hard-working, well organized, and friendly.”
4) the Honor System, student housing, the
Greek system, and women’s and minorities
organizations.

Todd Denbo

1) Captain of Ice Hockey and Golf teams,
150 hours of community service, Big Brother.

2) ‘‘I want to keep the class informed and to

adequately represent
the Freshmen.”

3) ‘‘I want to have
a leadership role and
to make sure that all
of the freshman have
a great year.”

4) ‘‘I will deal with
them as they come
up. I would like to
see more class par-

ties and freshman social alternatives.”

Will Hill

1) Class Historian,
Student Activities
Board (high school),
captain of football
team

2) “I’d like to get
to know all of the stu-
dents, to share their
views, and to help get
what they want.”

3) ‘‘I already know
a lot of the student
body and I feel that I can represent them the
best. I’m a well-balanced person.”

4) The character of the president and his
responsiveness to the students, and his ability to
gain more power for the class of 1997.

Alvin Townley

1) member Fresh-
man Leadership
Committee at W&L,
student government,
captainofcrosscoun-
try and track teams

2) “I want to main-
tain class unity
t h r o u g h o u t
pledgeships.”

4) “A president
needs to handle situ-
ations as they arise.”

Gary Wenger

2) “I want to pro-
mote class unity.”

3) “I want to do
something meaning-
ful for the school.”

4) Unity, class
mixers.

Vgi_ce_-Presidential candidates .

Lauren Guthrie

1) involved in
class government,
Senior Prom coordi-
nator, “I ’m
openminded”

2) “I want to up-
hold the high stan-
dards of W&L with
faimess.”

3) “I think that the
sense of honor and
tradition and the stan-

dards of behavior make W&L unique. I want to
be a part of that.”

4) Maintenance of traditions and the stan-
dards of “gentlemanly behavior”

Sasha Hartman

1)Student Coun-
cil, Captain of ath-
letic teams, voted
most spirited in High
School.

2) “I want to en-
hance class unity and
class pride.”

3) “I have always
been involved in stu-
dent government.”

4) class unity

Lathrop Nelson
1) President of se-
nior chorus, in charge
of fundraising for a;
trip to France.
2) Class unity V
3) “I want to have ‘
a voice in this com-;
munity. I want to;
make a difference.” 1
* 4) The Honor Sys- 3
tem and preservation of the speaking tradition j

Eii Smith

1) President of
four organizations,
officer of 10 organi-
zations, state ranked
Mock Trial team
member

2) “I want to
make the freshman
year fun and bear-
able.”

3) “I want to do
something that will
have an impact on W&L”

4) Fair decisons at SCC hearings

Question and answers were compiled by Phi 5
Staff Writer Melissa Sawyer. Not all of the:
candidates could be contacted.

With this, you
can save for years. can save r

lbatperzrtyjaromourdrasser

Now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintoshi per-
sonal computers. You can also get special student financing with the
Apple“ Computer Loan*— to make owning a Mac‘” even easier. lb see

Apple Macintosb
Color Classic‘ 4/80, Built-in 10'' Color
Monitor 6Apple Keyboard 11. $953

Apple Macintosh
LClll 4/W, Apple Basic Color
Monitor 6Apple Keyboard 11. $1250

With these, you

just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus
Reseller today. And discover the power more college students '
choose. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your best? .

For further information visit University Computing in
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud

or call 463-8844

*Prices do not include sales tax

'A1'uilal)le /0 ([ll(lllf_}‘l7lg xlmlenls, :1/parlzopaling auIborz'2ez1A/Iple Campus Resellers. ©1993 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights re.ter1'arl. Apple. Ibe Apple logo. .’lIllC, Marin/osb mid “The power lo be your bar!" are regislered /mdemu .2. of Apple Computer Inc. Alarm/ash Cmlrxs (rm! Pou'erBoolz are lnrzzlemarkv Q/Aﬂﬂlé’ (fompuleiz Inc. (.11/svic it (I rrgisleretllrrlr/enIz11'l licensed lo Apple (lompulw: Inc.

l HOW

Apple PowerBook“‘ 1455 4/30,
Built-in Keyboard and 10" Backlit Super
Twist Monochrome Display. $1278

Apple Macintosh Cenzris" 61
4/80, Apple Basic ColorMom'!or 6
Apple Evended Keyboard 11. $1488

1

Game What ga?

   

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Tailgaters frolic in the parking lot at Saturday’s football game.

The Hing-tum Phl, October 15, 199

EC debuts WBRC

I->EC, from page one

campus newspapers, Hutton said.

At Monday’s EC meeting, Hutton asked
for the EC’s opinion on procedural matters
for the White Book review. According to
Hutton, there are “some very vague guide-
lines in the White Book [for an Honor Sys-
tem review].”

Tompkins said he would like to see the
committee report to the EC at the start of
winter term, before submitting the results of
their review on March 1.

Another concern was the violation of
confidentiality if the WBRC were to discuss
specific honor trials in their meetings.
Tompkins said he would like to protect the
confidentiality in the case of current stu-

dents, but said he didn’t see a need to make a
rule regarding what the WBRC could and
could not discuss.

Second-year Law Representative James
Rambeau agreed.

‘‘I think you can adjust the fact patterns,”
he said. “Make them hypothetical... Student
A and Student B.”

Hutton said the WBRC meetings would be
“for the most part, closed.”

Some debate ensued when Tompkins sug-
gested that an EC member be present at WBRC
meetings to offer input.

‘‘I think they should put these things to-
gether without our inﬂuence,” said EC Secre-
tary Ashby Hackney.

Hutton said he plans to put together a
calendar for the WBRC to follow while con-

ducting their review of the Honor System. I
addition, he said the committee has ac
quainted itself with the White Book in lht.
two meetings it has held. ‘ 
“We’ve got three people who have prac-i
tical experience,” he said. 3
Other business covered at Monday’s EC ,
meeting included an appeal from Kevin
Roddey, business manager of The Ring-tum‘
Phi, who asked that the EC not cut th ‘~
budgets of the publications under the _ﬁll'lS'l,
diction of the Publications Board. The E.
tentatively decided to cut each Pub Boar
publication by 17 percent at its meeting tw
weeks ago, in order to correct an old budget ‘
ing error. The funding cut became ofﬁcia
Monday when the EC passed the budget b 1‘
approving it for the second time. I "

IFC to examine Rush

h>lFC, from page one

help them see what you’re all
about.”

McClun g suggested that some
formal function precede the open
contact period so that freshmen
could meet all fraternities in a
casual setting before the open
houses.

“lFC might considersponsor-
ingacookoutorsomethingwhich
would allow the freshmen to meet
five or six guys from every house
before open house,” McClung
said. “So if a freshmen decided
to go to a fraternity during the
second week, they would know a
few brothers at the house and not
feel awkward or out of place.”

Others have suggested that the
open contact period be shortened.

Car tax can affect credit rating

I->CAFl TAX, from page one

garaged for the majority of the
year. In order to resolve this dif-
ﬁculty, Ellestad said that if the
student has his car in Lexington
for the more than six months of
the year, it is assumed that his car
is garaged there.

Ellestad said the past four
years the car tax has been $4.25
per $100 of assessed value. Five
years ago, it was $5.50.

Failure to pay the car tax, ac-
cording to Ellestad, will result in
the treasurer ﬁling debt warrants
against the owner, which would
appear on the owner’s credit
record. Ellestad said that the
warrantappearingontheowner’s
credit record acts as an incentive
to pay.

Ellestad said that if the stu-
dent fails to pay the tax, the courts
will intervene to force payment,
but he adds that it is more diffi-

 

cult to force out-of-state carown-
ers to pay. According to Le;v.ing-
ton Cit y Treasurer Pat DeLaney,
it is difficult for the court to force
an out—of-state resident to come
to court because that is beyond
the jurisdiction of Virginia.
DeLaney said that a court
judgement will go against the
resident’s credit record, but the
owner will never have to serve
jail time. Usually, the car tax

. will be paid oncethe owner re-

ceives a copy of his credit record
and calls the treasurer’s office.
She said that sometimes the
owner finds that there was a mis-
take and doesn’t have to pay.
Delaney said that the trouble
comes when people are not forth-
coming in their information. As
for W&L students failing to pay
their car tax, Delaney says that
the students have either paid or
discovered that they didn’t have

to pay.

“The open contact times re-
ally weren’t utilized the way we
thought they’d be,” McClung
said. “lt might work better if
lasted five days or a week.”

One potential reason for short-
ening open contact next year may
be to prevent Homecoming week-
end and Tear Night from occur-
ring the same weekend.

“Tear Night next year, under
the current system, will be Home-
coming Weekend,” McClung
said.

Homecoming weekend can-
not be changed due to the foot-
ball schedule. Kathekon and the
IFC will need to reach some
agreement about this before Rush
plans for next year can be ﬁnal-
ized.

Donaldson hopes to have the

review of Rush completed
quickly this year.

“Last year, we took all year to
work it out,”'Donaldson said.
“We hope to get it done by the
beginning of November.”

ThelFCwillalsobeholdinga
meeting with the freshmen on
Monday evening at 7 to discuss
deferred pledgeship.

“lt’s not so much about their
rights as it is about how they are
to become part of the house,”
Smith said. “They’re not pledges
during the fall, they’re social
members or whatever you want
to call them but they’re not
pledges.”

Smith said there is a list of
regulations as to what the fresh-
men can and cannot do during
the remainder of this semester.

Deferred pledgeship means tha
the freshmen are not ofﬁdall «.
pledges until the beginning 0
winter temi.

“Deferred pledgeship mean
the freshmen have 10 weeks 0.‘
get really comfortable with th
house and the brothers they’v
decided to join,” Wolfe sgﬁ.

In other IF C business,
was placed on two week socia
probation for having kegs in thei
house.

“The kegs got taken by Secu-
rity this afternoon,” Donaldson
said. “They came in and togd us
about it and it was all taken care
of.”

Smith said Chi Psi canno
have any parties at the house fo
two weeks due to the punish-
ment.

1Ps'\

 

 

C
35;’ '-' ‘ V’-—'r""

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-rum Phi

The 38er Gators prepare to make an announcement at Saturday's football game.

l.\'\'liS'l‘l.\'(}

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START ,
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

an't afford to save for retirement?

Even if you're not counting the years to

The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $100 each
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $154,031* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $211 each month
to reach the same goal.

retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve-
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest-
ment choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education and 50
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not
join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on ‘
your side.

Start plamniog your ﬁcture. Call our Enrollment Hatline 1 800 842-2888.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?" '9' 5 ,

Q I 995 Father; Imruranrr and A/umi! y A.r.rariali41II/ Ca//(gt Rtlirtmtnt Equiliar Fund.

\

"‘/i.I.mmin_q an ilrlrmrl rim 11/6. 50% 1'r:()i'lt1) In TIA/-I Rrlirrmtnl /*lnIu4[![r.r. Thir rulr Lr u.r:'z).m/t/_v In Jlmuv lbr power am’ rj7i*i'I if/'4'nm;wuI:Jir:_4;. Lawr ur 51:4/her mIe.r u-uulzl
,vru()urr wry (hf/Err/il rr.ru/l.r. C REF n'rIi/i4'r1I:.r 1lIj( dirlri/mm) /Iy TI/lrl-(‘REF I/11):}-{Jun/it/1:7 Iu.rliIuIimm/ S(n'i4‘r.r.

 

The Fling-tum Phi October 15, 1993

 

PAGE 5

D By EMILY BAKER

Phi Staff Writer

 

yours are vital .

THE WHITE HOUSE

I am pleased to join the National Foundation
for Infectious Diseases in recognizing National
Hepatitis 8 Prevention Day.

Your awareness program to educate the American
people about prevention of hepatitis B can help
improve immunization rates and reduce the number
of deaths from this disease each year.
1 percent of the 28 million young Americans at risk
of infection have been vaccinated, efforts such as
Ultimately, vaccinations and
prevention efforts save lives, prevent suffering,
and allow significant savings in health care costs.

I commend you for acknowledging the seriousness
of hepatitis  and.for encouraging all Americans to
accept their individual and collective responsi-
bilities to prevent this disease.

Best wishes for much success.

 

‘T/I/e’a“L tfe

Hepatitis B target

  Disease is 100 times more contagious than HIV

Evading the ﬂu epidemic may be the current
medical concern for students on the Washing-
ton & bee campus, but another, more danger-
ous affliction has medical experts worried about
student health. Hepatitis B, a potentially fatal

WASHINGTON

Since only

G

‘Renaissance woman ancfﬂforneeorning Queen

..

File Photo

President Clinton has offered his support for the Hepatitis - B awarenessl
vaccination program. Dr. Ruth Westheimer (not pictured) has also come
forward as a spokesperson for the cause.

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

. Senior Heather Aussiker has all the attributes
of a Homecoming Queen—she’s involved, per-
soriable, outgoing, and adept at bartending.

Yes, bartending. “It was a blast,” said
Aussiker of her bartending school experience
last summer. Not many people go to bartending
school as a summer activity, but W&L’s Home-
coming Queen is not an ordinary person.

Aussiker is the vice president of the Chi
Omega sorority, a member of the leadership
honor society Omicron Delta Epsilon, a mem-
ber of the Student Affairs Committee, a G.
Holbrook Barber Scholar, and the head dorm
counselor at W&L, as well as one of the leads

in the Theatre Department production of The
Flies.

As the head dorm counselor, Aussiker works
closely with Dean Manning and the other dorm
counselors. “I’m here if they need anything,”
she said.

“I really enjoy them [the activities] all. You
try different things throughout yourwhole W&L
experience,” said Aussiker. Part of her experi-
ence included being nominated twice for home-
coming court.

“I was thrilled just to be nominated,” she
said of her nominations by Sigma Chi both this
year and last year. “I was very surprised and
happy to be chosen as Homecoming Queen,”
Aussiker said.

The Homecoming Queen selection process
involves ﬁlling out a questionnaire and being

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  

. Left: Aussiker
tries on her new
crown

Below: W&L’s
1993 Homecom-
ing Queen,
Heather Aussiker

Photo by Bethany Smith, I" he Ring-tum Flu

communicable disease which attacks the liver,
is spreading rapidly among college students. _

Young people, ages 15 to 25, are the fastest
growing segment of the population with hepa-
titis B according to The Chronicle of Higher
Education. The number of young adults with
hepatitis B is now 77 percent higher than it was
10 years ago. Hepatitis B is 100 times more
contagious than HIV. One in 20 Americans has
been infected with the virus, and each day 14
Americans die from hepatitis B-related illnesses.

Once inside the body, the virus strikes the
liver, and may lead to cirrhosis or liver cancer.
The risk among carriers of developing liver
cancer is 200 times higher than that of non-
carriers. There is no cure for hepatitis B, but
there is a vaccine.

People transmit the disease through infected
blood or bodily ﬂuids including semen, vaginal
secretions, and saliva. Hepatitis B can be
transmitted through vaginal, oral, or anal inter-
course.

The risk of contraction is increased for those
who are sexually active, have unprotected sex,
have more than one sex partner, have another
STD, share needles for injecting drugs, or work
in health care.

Also at risk are natives from areas where
hepatitis B is endemic, including Alaska, the
Pacific Islands, Africa, Asia, and the Amazon
region of South America.

Most of those infected do not suspect they
have hepatitis B, because its symptoms are so
similar to those of the ﬂu. “It can fool people at
first,” said Dr. David Copeland of the W & L
inﬂrmary. Symptoms include nausea, fatigue,
vomiting, loss of appetite, jaundice, and ab-
dominal pain.

Dr. Copeland recalled no recent cases of
hepatitis B on the W & L campus. If there were
such a case, “we would offer the patient an
inﬁrmary stay. But there’s probably not much
we can do,” he said. “There is no treatment, just
rest and good nutrition.”

The American College Health Association
recommends that all college students be vacci-
nated against the hepatitis B virus. Some schools
require the vaccination and most medical stu-
dents are required to be vaccinated. “Any
student who is going to be involved in health
care should get the vaccine,” said Dr. Copeland.

The vaccine stimulates the body to produce
antibodies, which protect those exposed to the
disease. It is given in a series of three shots with
a total cost of around $130.

asked questions by a panel of ﬁve judges. “It
was a great honor to be picked,” she said.

While being W&L’s Homecoming Queen
doesn’t involve any specific duties, Aussiker
feels that being the queen means “being a
representative of the school and all that it en-
tails—spirit, friendship, and tradition. I hope I
can do it.”

Aussiker has more than queenly duties to
fulfill, though, Like all W&L seniors, next year
she will have to face those two familiar four-
letter words: real life.

“It’s scary being a senior. Part of you is
really excited and part of you says ‘Don’t take
me away’,” said Aussiker.

Although she came to W&L planning to be
21 Physics major, Aussiker is now double major-
ing in Journalism and Theatre. Next year she
plans to get her Master of Fine Arts in acting
and plans to do bartending on the side for
money.

Aussiker got into theatre when she audi-
tioned for “The Skin of Our Teeth” her fresh-
man year. “I got the bug,” she said.

With her many activities, Aussiker has to be
very organized. “I have this huge black book,”
she said. “I live off coffee. Coffee is my favorite
food.”

If coffee is her favorite food, W&L is deﬂ-
nitely her favorite place to be.

“I can’t imagine being any place else and
being as happy as I am here,” said Aussiker.

File mom"

U1
0
C
III
III!
CD
W9.
('0
W

  1).a1"l_ ‘I  V

n‘sxni_t'ti'e d '  i at: as e

V‘

. Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring ::.'m Phi
EC President Bob Tompkins receives one of the perks of his office.

 

 

        
     
   
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 

PAGE 5
PVIUQQGVS by Jeff MacNel1y

O“ fh¢ mark W Mark Parisi -   
IT'S A QUl7’E C-O;1MON S7'A—rE OF ‘ HOW CAN ‘(DU . EECAK/5E NW '0«llRTlEé 
3323? .5v5__ 2355 I; »2g5KT~f_;;15E- .-  ~~ﬁi¥§9%i.E€é§~; ZéiiZE3Ef§”S2Tiso.
CONDI7’/ON OF HER 50YFRIEND‘5/
SHOWER CURTAIN...

      

  
  
  
  
 

., . ,9‘, _ ‘
' ,3$2-x

 

119% I We plucggers ‘find it hard to he
AYIAITCFHYUM GINJMIRKPARISI ‘I43    '

Colonnade Crossword

W&LlF E

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

     

The Ring-tum PM October 15,1993

KlDDlE
i PHOTb5 -1 g

  

   
 
 

   

 

Dave by David Miller

 
  
   
  

E ,, THE ,, .
PuT MY ' "<5
PurzciiA~;e 0N MY «Q A CKEWT

azeoir CARD. APWCAFON
e A F

  
     
 

ACROSS

1 Mop

5 Send

9 Tiny particle
13 Lounge
14 The ones here
15 Outer garment
16 Minute amount

NON L(§‘l:}UlTUli

FNK1 Tlxiras urvnéo 1  " ‘ 6 it

 
 

   

KNV \—\E P\)FFEVi BUT WE
COULDN'T BL>\N VO‘NN T\—\E

. roe we N\NET\Eé...   

K3099 lN\DE OF BR\C—K-
ga-mg ac. EN) WOLF

  

 
    
 

     

  
  
 

    

 

 

    

 

     

       
  
      
 

     
  
    

  

 
  
     
     

     
   

I -,
| V '..l V; ’ ,
17 Mirrored image 1’ I, l ’ ii ‘ ‘ :,?4I;.‘=_—-—:_ ‘ I \N QANNTO “XE (‘BUN-Vl
$?‘§1‘;':;':2 ‘ii’  we 1  1   r<EcE“°:R\>ER5°F“‘°9 W
.— mull ‘L “‘ '3 ‘
22 Guided - -—,-s-._._  _  V\éC.°\(ER.ED "\'\3ii\'l ‘ME .
23 Kingdom. i 3  . -  meg; \_\ﬁLr._ \>\(,£ NEVER
-. I’ 3 \"‘ ‘ ‘ un" )-
25 Man of vision ,  _.f‘.., A
27 cry or surprise .1... . I fr’-’»,4;/s?.’§<.g~".~‘ N’\’L\El> FOR
29 Slender -— 1 ‘  I “ Q 9 \L FQgN\\‘\'
. _ \ l . ,. § 9 $0 V\N(7 
31 Covered with -—-   1  '0 ‘
cloth VIE"-V  l . . “ﬂ
35 wage, omzméiiiuam E951’ wwrr-as moo? ‘
:3 Stacked
Tricky fellow _ ~. \*>‘' \_ ~ _ \

39 Dlsmounted U ' * \\ ‘:3 , \\§ ' ‘i ‘p  v
41 Made garments . LET  \ " . KW

23 ansnare I v ‘  M \\ 3} 5 . ‘\ \ E ; ;

ovesine . ‘,\» " ‘ '
W, I _.o REAVTD usAeAi
46 Pick up. as an ‘ TONGHT.  
option mesa Tribune Medi Services. Inc. - ;
48  ‘°"”’°" e 0 S‘ sremem «was
49 Invigorating _ D 0 HO
drinks 7 Seagirt lands Y 5 Pull‘? s°|V9d- .  H, I

51 Prime donna 3 Féemoved rind 6‘ ,5‘ r \ l .
52 Favorite ariunkel - \\ \\‘\li - g \ .‘. _

53 Tugboats 10 Labor \ V’ Ex 5 J '~ \\\‘ 4: 5 I |
55 Merriment 11 Musical - g - .. N‘ A . A H
57 That woman instrument \, ‘ ‘Q \

60 Trodden way 12 Repair - -) ‘\\ §~ ~. ‘ , 3 ‘ \ 4

62 Coil 14 Latticework , gfl‘,  ‘x. . o, .,‘ ~ % «

65 shrewd swap 18 Store employee ' V k '46‘. 7 A ~ 34

68 Weight 20 Catch the breath _________________j______ _

$9 glﬁionvézpriizg 24 Ertﬁtligelz _ ' ('l>TF'|AT'$ KIND ' ‘ OKAY! -n,E .

0 Hawaiian 6 cold  co”; E7 ' ~ I I. , 1
dance: 27 Neutlcal_t_ergr\"'- ’  pa . _ 5caNDlNG._ A \ Uﬂ    ~

71 Continent 28 Telephone word ‘ '~

72 Cozy home 30 sounded like a E ,

73 Plant part cat

74 Certain tide 32 Restate §.

33 Dodge 5
DOWN 34 Station I
1 Lose one's 37 Overalls tabric g
looting 40 Taunt .= ‘
2 Fleece 42 invents 54 Pompous walk 61 Healthy 3
3 Change 45 Extent 0t 56 Gigantic person 63 Opera melody  -
4 Lent of grass activity 57 Leg part 64 Jump 3
5 That woman 47 Fabric threads 58 What 66 TV unit ‘
6 Weight 50 Mowing sweeps 59 Makes mistakes 67 Water barrier

 

 

    

 BERKY’S i............
  at use In Truck Stop

Snow White
Rated G
Sat. 10:30 a.m.
Sat. & Sun. 12:30 & 2:30 p.m.

Free Willy
Rated PG
Showing Dail at 7 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. :35 p.m.

  

  BREAKFAST
 BUFFET

-135°“ ,‘,3‘t’ef,sR‘° He" Friday & Saturday Nights
8
Showing Daily at 9:30 p.m. T1 p.m. to 4 a.m. ‘
“All You Can Eat” Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
"°"“’M“ESS ""°"” Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 463-3478

@.00 OF POPCORN $3.9

 

 

 

$2.00 off all CDs, $1.00 off all Cassettes

Come try_ our Quick-Draw game. Buy $10 worth of tradin cards and/or comics & ggayll

Win %1:1ZCS ran in from movie rentals to a $25 ift certi icacate. Horror movies (2.
New s ipment 0 -shirts. Just Arrived!! $16.99 ncludin Looney Tunes, Blind Melon,
Ren & Stimpy, and Cyprus 1 1.

EM; i_11”si*,c% 9"llih”ii”sfl

Bodeans — Go Slow Down
Alabama - Chea Seats
Geor e Clinton - ey Man
Common read - Songs 0 the Eagles
Juvenile Committee - Free s Colored Kids
DJ Jazzy Jeff - Code Red
Lemonheads — Come On, Feel
Leaders of the New School - TI.M.E.
Swervedriver - Mezcal

Stonewall S uare ShoIpping Center
xin to
463-9 00

 

 

  

 

 

  

   

  

 

..— ~    '.
I SAID ELEVEN ~ /’ 4 '
Uﬁﬁll _’ _
‘ HAPPY MEALS. ‘ _ ' -I;
| _§‘(\\_7{-", / A ‘.1

 
    

 
    

on . '7'
my 4,. 3,__ _¥..  .
§

1 ~1>

 g-
..ﬁfy_«4k~.'  “F

    

   

  
  

‘/F‘  
 =-as -
 ,,.“isf‘.l‘.i'\\*‘.1 '

‘,-.\.
" (1%, ‘T’ . 

 

   
 

  

   

  

   1 youd

 

   

like to share your artistic E

talents with W&L; work for

 

the Phi, be one of our car- "=

 

toonists, take the plunge.

 

C’mon. '2

 

 

 

Also, if it’s not too much trouble,

 

 

we are looking for some good fea-

 

 

ture iceas; so all you people that -

 

 

 

worked on your high school

 

 

paper, or even if you didn’t, be ,

 

 

creative for us. Please.

 

 

Call us with your ideas. 462-4060.

 

 

    
 

I

he Rln -tum Phi October 15 1993

00

A (IHosE WHO CANT. 911‘ IN THEIR DORH
   AND EAT HACARONI *3 CHEESE.)

a>.4<"" “ ""‘ “‘

Q"*KT¢'& cu?
"""‘ 30 Wrrcp.
I

Vlotrssro

C“ff§f A", No L":‘_
Hf‘/-' V” YOUR Noo .

N.r_,

WT THC (g”_

If ou vow 601 IT,
oar IT.‘"

0 I993 GKEDIWOOD TKWT (OHMNY, HLHVEK FN( ﬁﬂllﬂ KTWORK

PAGE 8

Ellie "ﬁling-tum Iﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Close but... not

No one got arrested.

The 38er Alligators donated $25,000 to the University
AND,sponsored a sky-diver for half-time.

The football team played really well, at least for the first
half.

Seems like it would have been a close to perfect Home-
coming. But it wasn’t. Close, but no cigar. And we can’t
think of a good reason why it couldn’t have been perfect.

Few students may have realized there were a couple of
ﬂoats missing from the Homecoming parade. They were
not missing because of a last minute construction disaster or
a ﬂat tire. They were missing because some students
decided to totally disregard one important rule for partici-
pating in the parade: no alcohol.

Apparently, students on two ﬂoats decided they could
ignore that little rule. No one can claim ignorance of the rule
as a defense either. Many students will tell you the Lexing-
ton police made it absolutely clear to them alcoholwas not
an option on a parade ﬂoat. The parade ﬂoat registration
materials also made this very clear.

So why did a few students decide to ignore what they were
told? Good question. But what is even more confusing 1S
why they felt it so necessary to have alcohol on a parade ﬂoat
at 1 1 :00 in the morning?

Don’t get us wrong. We are not saying W&L students are
not allowed to have fun. We are not saying alcohol IS an evil g
thing either. But there is a time and a place for alcohol, and
the Lexington Police made it very clear the parade was not

' the right time or place.

The biggest shame in all of this is that students and the
Alumni Office have worked very hard the last two Home-
comings to revive an old W&L tradition. The students who
completely disregarded the alcohol rule just didn’t care. '

They didn’t care about the work Kathekon and the Alumni
Office put into organizing the parade. And they didn’t care

about the work theyhad put into creating their own ﬂoats.

One alarm too many

While the Gaines Hall Revitalization Committee is look-
ing into how to improve life at Gaines we have one more

Book banning exists at W&L too

speculate on it.” Why not? Wh
asked I was told that they sim ly ‘
not want to.” The truth is, ro
book says Hill lied during the Clare
Thomas confirmation hearings. 7
proprietors happen to like Anita
and, as a result, they do not like

be the same as mine.The relevant works
were allowed to be published and dis-
tributed. They are sold in bookstores
across America. They can be found on
the shelves of your local public library.
But should parents decide they don’t
want their children to have unimpeded

By now I’m sure most of you have
seen the display in the University Book-
store. For those of you who haven’t,
there is a table loaded with books that
were supposedly denied the privileges
of the First Amendment. In each one is
a card titled, “This Book Was Banned!,”

The fundamental question is who gets
to decide what children can and can’t
see. The problem with school libraries
is they are one place that a ‘parent
cannot screen the material a child sees.
If a family goes to a bookstore or a
public library, the parents can see what

 

_ . . accom anied accesstocer- the children are readin .But at school, book. In fact, last ear the re on
thmg for them ti) look Into: the ﬁre a1armS' d by an e)i’plana— tain materi- children can checkoutiooks and leave called it “trash.” llvlaybe it ispn’t
Llvlng ln Games can, have 3' l~0_t 9f pe_rkS' But Stu_ ems tion ofthe hei- als, some el- them there, far away from the prying speech they are concerned zﬂiout
living jg..Q_aines  tell you adeflmte. disadvantage 15 the nous crime. ements (like eyesof parents. It only makes sense,“ Wmuch asfreedoni fortheirsortofspe
fire,ai.m.m__1t haS.av[‘§n‘d‘e,‘nCy, (of go off: at ,4‘a‘.m,. It usually: Yellow ‘Sl'l'~lpS‘ _ RYAN the propri—. then, thai parents are concerned about_ ‘The feminist rhetoric ‘of M
b for bout lsminutes»-and then it gets turned 0ff_ But, marked -Cau- etors of the what is in those libraries. What if  Angelou is championed while con
uzzes a . . 1 -11 t tbuzzin tion”surround DENNARD Bookstore) happen to find these “banned” books vative political works are scorned.
fest assllfeds llllle out of 10 “mes the a arm W1 S at g the display, suddenl cry perfectly acceptable? If several other is not what the First Amendment i
- ’94 ’
again. _ and a large censorship. parentsobjecttoaceitainpiece,Iwould about. Maybe our local non-part
AS most W&L students remember,It1l1ie fibre alarms are a postqrl VVl’1]ll'l & b Okneofdthe still bs frporetahan lﬁappyAtpt seelit rfei cthalptefr of the ACl_.UfSl;lt(1)uld bok
- d t . e uzz at stran e airy— aec ar- oo son is- move om e sc oo. er a ,i i. n airness, one o e proprie
problem m the frilzlshmen orms 00 y g acters, read- play is Maya want my children to read it, I can al- stressed to me that they would 0
hours there as we ' ing, “Who’s Angelou’s 1 ways get it at the local library. That the book if I requested it. “We’re

But they dOI1’t_lllSt ring ln the middle of the night’ All too Afraidof Snow White, MotherGoose,” Know Why the Caged Bird Sings. way, everybody is happy. This is not a censoring your right to read it,”

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 199.

often they go off in the middle of the afternoon and stay on

for a while. dentally: “People who ban books. to black women and is a significant just common money to
. - - - a 1 th That’s who.” figure in contemporary American lit— sense. it in sgick.
‘.An.d umverslty Ofﬁclals Wong? why we don t cave 6 When I first saw it, I was surprised erature. Why then, was her book re- Whatdoesn’t isn’tthisstil
bulldlng when the alarm goes  _' , _ , . by the large number of books on the moved from a ninth-grade required make sense is worsethanv
ll’S 5lmPle- W&L Students llvlllg lll lllllvelslly llouslllg display. I own a copy of By Way of readinglistandtheshelvesofaneighth— our Bookstore’s These crusaders of public sch
are tired of having their sleep disturbed by 0i)nOX10uS_ flfe Deception.‘ The Making and Unmak— grade classroom? Maybe _it.was b_e— hypocrisy.They freedom feel c0mf0rt_ have done.
alarms has not like We get that much Sleep as It 1S_ Besldes, mg of a Mossad Officer, the only book cause of_the passage describing child have set them- _ _ _ . leastthesch
' in recent years to be subjected to prior molestation: “Mr. Freeman pulled me selves up as able l‘aCtlClIl Olltlcal are rotec
d 1 ff so fre uentl the no longer have any . . P
they ran om  go 0 . (1 y y h b restraint, and thatcourt orderwas over— to him and put his hand between my champions of a censorship on the adults childr n.
impact. The flre alarms 111 the llomls have become t e 0y turned in all of a couple of hours. So, legs....He threw back the blankets and free press, at- . . . you and I r
0 cried wolf one too man times. curious where the bookstore had found his ‘thing’ stood up like a brown ear of tacking arents’ of thls llnlVeI'Slty- need to be
wh Y , P
If someone is actually planning fire drills in the middle of so many violations of freedom of the corn. He took my hand and said, ‘Feel efforts to limit tected?
the ni ht Someone else needs to Sit down and have a long press, I was inspired to investigate fur- it. ‘It was mushy and squir_my like the their children s If the B(
g_ ’ _ , . d 1 O-n off ther. I quickly discovered that most of inside of a freshly killed chicken.Then exposure to store pro
talk Wlth h1m- If the flle alarms are Just ran om y g 1 g the little “This Book Was Banned!” he dragged me on top of his chest with morally ques— etors were

then maybe we should have someone take a look at them. If
they go off when there isn’t fire, what are they going to do
if there ever is a fire? More importantly, will anyone be able
to tell if it is real or not?

Quote of the week

This is great, but it’s made out to Washington and Lee
University.

——President Wilson during the halftime ceremony when
the 38ers presented him with a $25,000 check

‘Lillie ﬁling-mm lﬂlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . .2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Phil Carrot!

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

' is otherwise independent.
Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
' Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Columns, letters, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
coun definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
703 462-4060

etc., towers over it. The answer, inci-

cards read something like this: “Book
ABC by John Doe was removed from
the school library in Smalltown, Kan-
sas, after parents complained of its
profanity and sexual content.”

Of course, some weren’t actually
“removed”; they may have been “ob-
jected to” or “reviewed by the school
board.” This is when I clued in to the
fact that their idea of banned might not

Angelou writes about themes relevant

his left arm, and his right hand was
moving so fast and his heart was beat-
ing so hard that I was afraid that he
would die.”

While child abuse is an issue that
needs to be addressed, I’m not sure that
I want my thirteen-year-old addressing
it in that context. The truth is, I don’t
care whether parents are objecting to
Playboy or Little Red Riding Hood.

violation of the First Amendment. It is said. They just don’t want to use

 

. adults of this university. Try going into

tionable material. Nonetheless, these
crusaders of freedom feel comfortable
practicing political censorship on the

cemed about being able to sell

But that is not what this is all abou
when you go into our University B
store and see the proprietors we
their “I Read Banned Books” pins
them if they have read The Real

the Bookstore and picking up a copy of
The Real Anita Hill, by David Brock.
You can’t, because it’s not there.
Though this is a widely sold book, the
proprietors of our local establishment
are “just not using their resources to

tive political views? The progiet
the Bookstore. That’s who.

Candidate’s views could backfir

Ever since Thomas Jefferson drafted the Virginia
statute of Religious Freedom in 1786, religious groups
in Virginia have enjoyed a liberty of conscience

unequaled by most coun-
tries. Even those religious

children.

groups who have tried to
restrict the liberty of con-
science of others have en-
joyed the benefits of
Jefferson’s law.

Thomas Jefferson real-
ized his statute of Religious

 

ANDREW
SCHNEIDER,
’94

Freedom and the Constitu-
tional guarantee to religious
liberty would not be self-

enforcing. Each successive generation of Virginians
would have to maintain the “etemal vigilance” that,
as Thomas Jefferson said, is “the price of liberty.”
Especially today, Virginians cannot afford to take
their inherited freedoms for granted. Pat Robertson’s
Virginia-based Christian Coalition would love to
impose its religious morals on others if only it could
elect its members to political office. Already the
Christian Coalition has managed to infiltrate the
ranks of the Republican party. In this year’s Virginia
state elections, dozens of candidates, affiliated to
varying degrees with the Christian Coalition, are
running as Republicans. The most prominent of those
candidates is the Republican contender for Lieuten-

ant Governor, Michael Farris.

Michael Farris, a 41 year old lawyer and member
of the Christian Coalition, was the treasurer for Pat
Robertson’s 1988 presidential campaign. He also
worked for the Moral Majority in Washington state
before he settled down in Virginia 10 years ago.
Currently, Farris is the president of the Home School
Legal Defense Association, an organization he
founded to support families who educate their own

taxpayers to subsidize re-
ligious schools and
thereby religions to
which they do not sub-
scribe.

State support of reli-
gious education is an is-
sue that has been around
for a long time. In 1784,
Patrick Henry proposed
a bill in the Virginia leg-
islature to provide state
funding for religious
education. The bill if en-
acted, would have re-
quired taxpayers to des-
ignate a church to re-
ceive a proportionate al-
location of state funds.

The Farris campaign captured national attention
when the candidate denounced public schools as a
“godless monstrosity,” “val-
ues indoctrination centers”
and “a multi-billion dollar in-
culcation machine.” Farris,
who with his wife Vicki, has
educated their eight children
at home for 12 years, would
support a state tax credit of
up to $2000 per child for the
cost of public, private, paro-
chial or home schooling.

This tax credit proposal,
which he calls “educational choice” would deal a
heavy blow to our liberty of conscience by forcing

James Madison, also a Virginia state legislator at
the time, responded to Henry’s bill by writing his

famous A Memorial and Remonstrance A
Religious Assessments . In this document, Ma
declared that religion “must be left to the convi
and conscience of every man.” He added th
legacy of government support of religion mo
to “superstition, bigotry and persecution.

Madison’s arguments not only helped to d
Henry’s bill but they also laid the intellectual
dations for the Constitutional ban against an e
lishment of religion. The Virginia General A
bly enacted Jefferson’s bill for Religious Fre
in place of the defeated Henry bill.

Michael Farris andthe Christian coaiiimns
take a second look at Virginia’s rich history
provides more than a few lessons on religiou'
erty. They may perhaps be unaware of the fac
religion ﬂourishe
when not subsidi
supported by the
Today most ou
which support rel
are also centers 0
gious strife, like
em Ireland and B

Moreover,
Robertson and Mi
Farris may iﬁt r
they could beco
victim of their
goals. State fundi
Farris’s home s
and Christian Coa
schools might als
clude fundiqig
“hard core feminist” and witchcraft school.
this in mind, Robertson and Farris would pro
be much lessenthusiastic about “educationalch

This tax credit proposal,
which he calls “educational
choice” would deal a heavy blow
to our liberty of conscience by
forcing taxpayers to subsidize
religious schools and thereby
religions to which they do not
subscribe.

Real Anita Hill, I would urﬂierst

Hill. After all, who’s afraid of alte

O

   

e nm - -tum Pin, October 14, 1993 OPINION PAGE 9
I
arriage tou 'nsp' gr db 1
b 3 t . . .77 u .
I R«EAM LAND ¥2’$'.i.'§$’.'.“ 5.2313: .o°§2??§.’.i"y“f§f 54%.: “ii G13. it to the Lexington P... i.‘§,°§i?.?.2’.hZ".‘3?3.i§'55'..g,‘$1’."§'§..i“§f.I§
. and Dad Experience Lexington From Office to use to deliverthe mail (Sorry, street and for eating the shrubbery on
Richard weaver The Viewpoint Of A Native (you). I forgot; that’s what they use now.) Henry Street. How do you plead?  Resumes

Whenever the bookstore gift shop 3) Old-Fashioned Hay Ride/Wok DEFENDANT : Naaaaaaaay (De-

I’m positive that by now you’ve
en the horse-and-carriage that ferries
urists around our lovely little city-
-thO—interstate, showing them the
rious local historical sites, such as
onewall Jackson house, Lee Chapel,
e old graveyard, VMI, the friendly
all, Taco Bell, The Palms, and Letitia
.te Evans Dining Hall. If you haven’t Us
en the horses, close your eyes and
ke apdeep breath.

That

ceases to amuse them, you better have
a “Plan B.” How does that carriage tour
sound now?

On our carriage tour, guided by a
graduate of Our Name Is Now South-
ern Virginia Col-
lege for Women
So Start Calling T‘-———-—:
(or Better start cleaning
“Sem,” for short), '
my family and 1

ing Hall.

I feel that this is an appropriate time
to admit that I love the name “Letitia,”
and when I was accepted by W&L and
found out it was
the name of the
dining hall, I
i m m e d ia t e l y
sent in my de-
posit for that

y0lll' I'00IIlS DOW because

Night from the Letitia Pate Evans Din-

fendant sticks head in bag of oats).

I started thinking also that the car-
riage tours might be a great source of
revenue for the city of Lexington. Since
there is a car tax assessed on W&L
students, why not have a horse tax
assessed on the carriage tours?

Perhaps it could be ﬁgured on a per-
hoof basis or on terms of the riders and
wear-and—tear on the streets. Perhaps
even, toll stations could be set up along

You ask yourself, why would any- leamedwhattem- you’ve got a scant tW0 reason, Not the [our route to collect the tax;

e take a carriage tour of a city no perature bricks weeks to get ready for only that, but TOLL COLLECTOR: OK,
ggerthanaDisney World parking lot were glazed at to Mom and Dad E . “Letitia” is just you’ve got two horses, a tour guide,
he“ ‘hey Could easily Wfilk? find I be used_for Lex- _ XPe1°|' a fun word to four tourists, three of which are over-
ould zlmtswfetr yoiti. by sayirsigz. T'll‘iey lngi0l'll]SldCWalll:S, ence Lexlngton From say. Try it. weight, and one of which is from New
ve a o 0 rec ime an in eir as we asatw at - - Letitia. Letitia. Jerse and w ‘

» . . The View oint Of A . . 3’ ‘‘'‘‘"‘“g 3
nd exact incline _ P Letitia. Letitia. “DUBYUHNELL”T- h'rt. Let’ 
Now before I dig too deep a hole, I Main Street used Native (you). See? that will be $6.50. S 1 ssee
ill admit that,OK,lhave taken one of tobeinthe1800’s. Speaking of HORSE: Naaaaaaaaay (The horse
ese tours, butlfeel obliged to add the Now where else fun words, on startsgnawingontollcollector’spants).
sclaimerthat it wasasadiversion for can you gain such our carriage OK, there are a few “kinks” in the

a me visiting relatives, and not for my
rsonal enrichment.
You say to me, indignantly, “Rich-
d, l‘vould never go on one of these
urs, for any reason, even if Tom
espos held a gun to my head.” And I
-A y to you, “Wait until Parent’s Week-
. d.” And you say, “Oh, no,” to which
add, “Oh, yes.” Better start cleaning

Q

knowledge? Throughout the tour, my
mind began to wander as to what prac-
tical applications could be made of the
horse-and-carriage transportation sys-
tem. I came up with the following:

1) Use it to replace W&L Security’s
Suzuki ﬂeet. (JOE STUDENT: “Try
and tow my car away with that horse!”
W&L SECURITY: “High ho, Silver,

about it:

tour, we heard quite a few from Lex-
ington motorists. It seems that the car-
riages are immune to traffic laws and
may go through red lights, switch lanes
without signaling, double-park, etc.
with no fear. And there’s not anything
that the Lexington legal system can do

JUDGE: Sir, you are charged with

system, but that’s not to say it’s all bad.
And, OK, I probably shouldn’t have
spent so much time thinking while tak-
ingthistour. But seriously,the carriage
tour is something worth doing at least
once during your four years here. You
can even tell your grandchildren about
it.
Naaaaaaaay.

LETTERS

roject Horizon Depression symptoms can
‘"398 awareness be diagnosed, helped

0 the editor:

October has been recognized as Domestic Vio-
enc9Awareness Month. Project Horizon would like
0 encourage students to join us in our efforts to end
he terrifying cycle of family violence.

Project Horizon is a non-profit organization which
erves Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge

ounty. We are committed to increasing our
ommunity’s awareness of domestic violence and to
rovﬁie information and support to families afﬂicted
ith this widespread disease. Our direct services to
ndividuals in our community include:

1) a 24-hour hotline for information and referral.

2) emergency shelter within the community for
ictims and their children.

3) long-term shelter outside the community.

Alysupport groups to help individuals understand
heir situation and to regain control of their lives.

5) assistance in court for those who choose to
ursue relief within the legal system.

6) Teen Dating Violence program presented to
«- ighth graders in area schools as a part of the state-

andated Family Life Curriculum.

7@ ongoing educational programs presented to
ivic and community agencies who serve battered
omen.

If you would like to join Project Horizon in its
~ffort to aid troubled families, there is a great need for
volunteers. Phone volunteers provide three days or
nights per month as a volunteer advocate (calls are
aut atically transferred to your home) working
ano ymously to give out information, coordinate
emergency services, and often just to listen with an
understanding ear.

A training program for volunteers will be held in
November. Anyone who is interested in learning
more about Project Horizon is invited to a special
gathering on Friday, Oct. 22 from 5-7:00 p.m.

1! our country, a woman or child is victimized by
domestic violence once every 15 seconds. We cannot
accept this. Can you?

Lisa Coffey
Executive Director, Project Horizon, Inc.

C

MY VIEW

DR. JAMES W. WORTH

College counseling services consistently will tell
you depression is the “common cold” of mental
health problems on campus. lt’s not a question of
whether or not you’ll become depressed but when,
how intensely and for how long.

Fortunately, most students who become depressed
experience it only as a temporary case of the blahs, a

bad day or perhaps even a bad week. Usually this kind, ..

of depression is a reaction to some sense of loss,
which has emerged in the normal course of daily
events.

More than a simple disappointment, this brief
reactive depression could be triggered by a low exam
grade, a stormy romance, troubles at home or peer
problems on campus. Homesickness, a very common
experience among freshmen, is a form ‘of depression
caused by the “loss” of one’s daily routine and contact
with home. For most students, homesickness disap-
pears within a few days or weeks as they develop a
new set of friends and a new routine at school.

Recognizing depression, either in yourself or oth-
ers, can be difficult. Feeling sad is not the same thing
as being depressed.

Symptoms of Depression

Depression is often accompanied by a numbing of
feeling. The depressed person is apt to deny being
depressed but will instead say that he or she has been
tired, less energetic, not as well organized as usual and
perhaps even lethargic. Depressed individuals find
the things in life they used to enjoy no longer hold the
same appeal.'I'hey typically have changes in their
eating and sleeping patterns. Some, especially those
who are mildly to moderately depressed, may eat and
sleep considerably more than what is normal or usual
for them.

But as depression deepens, sleep usually become
fitful and disturbed, often with a pattern of waking up

nterviews and Photos
y.Joe Framptom

TALKBACK

 

early in the morning and not being able to go back
to sleep again. Appetite drops off and weight loss
can occur. Sexual interest may diminish, too.

Depressed people frequently find their sense of
confidence is lower, and they blame themselves for
things. They won’t believe or accept the compli-
ments others give them. Although depressed people
desperately need the emotional reassurance and
support of their friends, they often become irritable
and somewhat withdrawn, which discourages oth-
ers from approaching them.

This can be something of a vicious cycle. The
depressed person has trouble seeing their decreas-
ing contact with, others .is not a rejection but is the
reaction they themselves have provoked.

Often accompanying depression are physical
symptoms that are not associated with an actual
disease. Headaches, stomachaches, backaches, skin
reactions, constipation or diarrhea and chronic fa-
tigue are the kinds of symptoms campus physicians
report hearing from students.

Anxiety and tension are also typical among
those who are depressed. Acute or intense bouts of
anxiety, known as panic attacks, are especially
common among those with moderate to severe
depressions.

Suicidal Thinking

The symptom of depression that is most fright-
ening to others is the emergence of suicidal think-
ing. Almost no one seriously contemplates suicide
who is not significantly depressed. Although most
people who threaten to commit suicide usually
don’t actually do it, most who have killed them-
selves did threaten to do so. Consequently, no
suicidal threat should be taken lightly.

One other statistic is worth keeping in mind.
Males threaten suicide less than females but actu-
ally succeed in killing themselves more frequently.

One of the real fears and misperceptions is if you
have a friend who you know is depressed, you

Political consultant Lance
Tarrance, ’63, will discuss current
trends in U.S. public opinion on
Tuesday, Oct. 19 at 8:00 p.m. in
Room 327 of the C-school. For more
information please contact Chuck
Erdman at 462-4359.

Women’s Forum

October is Rape Awareness
Month. Women’s Forum will
present “Deﬁning Rape and Sexual
Misconduct,” with Dean Anne
Schroer-Lamont on Sunday, Oct.
17 at 6:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women’s Center. All women and
men are invited to join the discus-
sion.

Alcohol

What effect does alcohol have
on your ability to learn and remem-
ber? More than you might realize.
Find out on Monday, Oct. 18, at
8:00 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
“Alcohol and Memory — A
Neuroscientist’s Perspective,” will
be presented by Scott Swartzwelder,
Ph.d. — a leading researcher on alco-
hol and the brain from Duke Uni-
versity. '

Hillel

The Hillel Society will present
“Peace and the Accord,” a speech
by Fred Lazin of Ben-Gurion Uni-
versity, in Northen Auditorium at
8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, Oct. 19.

Interviews

The final practice interviews for
seniors for this term will be held on
Wednesday, Oct. 20. Sign up for a
time in the Career Development and
Placement Office.

Test Inventory

There will be a career test inter-
pretation session for those who have
completed the Myers Briggs, Strong
Campbell test inventories on Thurs-
day, Oct. 21, at 3:00 p.m. in Room
109. Call the secretary in CDPO if
you plan to attend this session.

All seniors should be reminded
that the resume drop deadline for
November companies is Friday,
Oct. 15 at 4:00 p.m. in the CDPO.

SLAC

All seniors interested in partici-
pating in the SLAC job fairs in
January should be advised that the
resume drop deadline for partici-
pating in these job fairs is Friday,

Oct. 22. Stop by the CDPO for more ‘

information.

Office Hours

The CDPO will have extended
office hours the week of Oct. 18.
The ofﬁcewill reopen nightly (Mon-
day-Thursday) from7:00-9:00p.m.
for seniorswishing to review SLAC
materials and submit resumes for
the job fairs in January. '

O O '
Exhlblt

Selected works from the art col-
lection of the late J. Keith
Shillington will be on exhibit in the
duPont Gallery from Oct. 19
through Nov. 11. A panel discus-
sion titled “A celebration in Memory
of Keith Shillington” and opening
reception for the exhibit will be
held Tuesday, Oct. 26, at 5:00 p.m.
in the gallery. The public is invited
to attend.

Concert

The W&L Alumni Association
and the department of music will
present Robert Vienneau, painist,
in recital at the Lenfest Center on
Tuesday, Oct. 19 at 8:00 p.m. The
concert is free and open to the pub-
lic. A reception will follow at the
Alumni House.

Phi

The Phi will hold its weekly
storyboard meeting on Tuesdays,
7:00 p.m. in Room 208 of the Uni-
versity Center. All interested in
writing are invited to attend.

General Notes are compiled by Richard Weaver.

I» See SUICIDE, page10

Student Body Notices

1) Two students have been found guilty of cheating on a ﬁnal exam
during the 1993 Spring Term exam period. Both students have chosen to

withdraw from the university.

2) A student has been found guilty of copying another student’s
computer program during the 1993 Spring Term and has chosen to

withdraw from the university.

If you Were doing Talkback this Week, What
question would you ask?



arah Aschenbach, ‘95, Potomac,
d. —- “Whose face would you most
‘ant to see on the back of a milk
rton?”
0

Ben LaBrecque, ‘97, Clinton, NY.
—— “Now who are you going to vote for
in ‘96?”

Shannon Jones, ‘94, East Hampton, NY., and Carrie Southgate, ‘95,
Rivervale, NJ. -— “Whose face would you most like to carve on your
Halloween pumpkin and why?”

Paul Howe, ‘96, Cortland, NY. —
“What do you dislike most about the
Trident?”

Sasha Hartman, ’97, Princeton, NJ.
— “Why don’t squash balls bounce?”

  

PAGE 10

 

How to recognize symptoms of suicide, depression

I» SUICIDE, from page 9

should never raise the question of
possible suicide because that would
put the idea into his or her head. Actu-
ally, just the opposite is true. By giving
a depressed friend the opportunity to
discuss any suicidal feelings he or she
might have, you can reduce the likeli-
hood that your friend will actually take
his or her own life.

If you have a friend who is de-
pressed and who makes some kind of
suicidal threat or even broad hint he
might prefer death over life, don’t ig-
nore the possibility. Sit down with your
friend and let him talk about it. Try to
be as accepting and calm as you possi-
bly can.

In such a situation, if you get upset
or start trying to give a little lecture
about how wrong it would be for him to
actually do something to himself, you
will cut off the communication pro-
cess. Instead, quietly and patiently in-
vite him to tell you how he feels.

Don’t worry about having answers
for his problems. He has to work out his
own answers. You can be helpful sim-
ply by listening and by accepting his
feelings.

Don’t hesitate to ask directly if he
has ever thought about hurting him-
self, especially if he has brought the
subject up first. In particular, find out
how detailed his plans may be. Some-
one who has only vague or general
thoughts about self-destruction is in
less danger than one who has selected

a time, place, and means for ending his
life.

You can even ask a person to rate
the chances of taking his own life — 10
percent likelihood, 50 percent or higher.
While even a low estimate must be
taken seriously, someone who says the
chances are 50 percent or higher would
be considered overtly suicidal.

It probably seems very strange to
think of yourself talking to a friend
about these kinds of things. Probably,
it is something that won’t ever happen.
But it could. Thinking about it in ad-
vance will make it easier for you to act
in a purposeful, helpful way.

How To Help A Sui-
cidal Friend

So, what is your worst fears are
confirmed? What if your friend shares
with you that he indeed is depressed
and has a strong desire to end it all?
What should you do?

First of all, take a deep breath, relax
and remember one important thing.
Your friend would not have confided
in you in there weren’t a big part ofhim
that wanted to live. Otherwise, your
friend would have simply gone out and
done away with himself. That you have
even been told is a sign that a healthy
part of that depressed person is mobi-
lized and wants to get help.

This is one time when you must not
worry about breaking confidences or
appearing to be a tattletale. Sooner or
later, you are going to have to see that

his information is passed on to some-
one who can help your friend.

If your friend is willing to go to a
minister, physician or mental health
professional, or to a college adminis-
trator or faculty member, then all you
need to do is make sure he gets there.
After that, you are off the hook.

But if he refuses to do that, you need
to be prepared to tell someone on your
own. That may seem to be unfair in one
sense, especially if your friend told you
his problems in strictest conﬁdence.
But death is irreversible, and so are
many forms of injury that people can
inadvertently inﬂict upon themselves
in a failed suicide attempt.

He may not realize it at the time, but
your going to someone else could save
your friend ’s life or health. You simply
have to trust that one day he will be
healthy and mature enough to recog-
nize what you were faced with. Most
likely, he will be very grateful to you.

If you sense a fellow student really
could attempt suicide in the immediate
future, do not leave him alone. Call a
friend or some responsible person on
campus. Stay with your depressed
friend until he has been taken for help.
Explain to him what you are doing.

Tell him honestly if you are fright-
ened, and don’t be ashamed of that. He
has told you something that is very
frightening. But don’t blame or criti-
cize him for his self-destructive feel-
ings. He already is loaded with guilt.
Simply tell him you value him and will
not allow him to do anything hannful,
even if that’s what he truly feels he

 

Room available with three
sophomores - $140 mo. Nice 5
bedroom house located 7 miles
past soccer ﬁeld. Contact Tom

Donnelly (703)464-8628 or Mrs.
Doris Mahanay (703)232-3854

(Rome, GA).

 

Groups & Clubs

Raise up to $500 - $1500 in less
than a week. Plus Win a trip to
MTV Spring Break ‘94 and get
a FREE T-shirt just for calling.
1-800-950-1039

Horse Boarding “

Lazy Acres: 9 stall barn, new lighted
arena, excellent turnout, new fencing,
miles of trails, and conveniently located
4 miles from Rt. 11 South, 2 miles from
the Virginia Horse Center on 39 West,
across from Long's campgrounds. $225
per month includes stalls cleaned and
bedded, light daily grooming, turnout blanketing, feed,
and water. Pasture board available at $100 per month
per horse. Riding lessons and horse training available
from qualified personnel. Call (703) 463-1636 and

leave a message.

 

Chicken Burrito / Black
Bean Tostada / Cheese
Enchilada / Beef Fajita
Alldinners $5.49

 
 

  

'3‘ I0. ! u.s. Depanment at Transportation

OPINION

wants to do. If the depressed friend
does not appear immediately suicidal
but you suspect that he could become
so in the future, see if he will make a
“non-suicide agreement” with you.
Even if this seems silly, it has been
shown to be a very powerful helping
technique.

Ask the person to promise you he
won’t do anything self-destructive for
a specified period of time. It could be a
day or a week, or even longer. Get him
to commit to this, even in writing. This
promise, though made to you, is actu-
ally a covenant with himself. It is not an
absolute guarantee, of course, but is a
very important commitment that many
depressed and suicidal people will
honor.

During the time you have bought
with the non-suicidal pact, you can do
everything in your power to get the
student to a counselor or some other
person who can help. Or, if he refuses,
you can talk to a counselor or dean
about the problem.

Treatment of Depression

Depression can be treated and over-
come. The simple reactive depressions
we all occasionally experience usually
go away with the passing of time. A
good long chat with a friend or a call
home to a parent may speed the process
along. When the depression seems to
be lasting longer than two to three
weeks, it might be helpful to talk with
someone in your campus counseling
service. The people there are trained to

The Ring-tum Phl, October 15, 1993

deal with what you are experiencing
and will probably be able to help.

Some depressions are biological in
nature, meaning there is a physical
reason for them. No amount of talking
will make this kind of depression go
away because it isn’t a matter of ac-
cepting or dealing with factors in the
outside world. Rather, it is a matter of
an imbalance in body chemistry.

Fortunately, there are a variety of
antidepressant medications which can
be prescribed that are often quite help-
ful. New medication that has hit the
market shows special promise of alle-
viating depression without producing
disruptive side effects.

Antidepressant medication is not
like an aspirin that works in 15 or 20
minutes. It may take as long as four to
six weeks to build up in the blood
stream and produce maximum results.
The newest antidepressant works faster
than older ones, but the effects are still
not going to belinstantaneous.

If there are panic attacks, these, too,
can be reduced by medication. Tran-
quilizers, such as Xanax, are frequently
prescribed, and they do work quickly.
Panic attacks are disruptive and fright-
ening. If you’ve never had one before,
you may think you are having a heart
attack or even going crazy.

The feelings are extreme dread and
fear. Your heart may beat wildly, your
hands get cold, and you may have
tightness in your chest. The feelings
build up to a sort of climax, then taper
off, leaving you feelingtenseand spent.
Panic attacks are extremely unpleas-

   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
     
    
   
  
   
      
    
  
   
    
   
   
        
   
     
  
   
   
    
      
      
     
    
  
   
    
    
    
     
    
  
     
    
   
      
     
  
   
    
   
    

6

ant.'If you have having any symptom:
like these, depression is a definite pos
sibility. '

Drugs and alcohol are particularl;
tough on depressed people. Getting
high produces a brief euphoria tha
gives a sudden, temporary sense 0'
relief from the depression. The hook i:
that alcohol and many drugs, espe-
cially marijuana, are themselve9 de-
pressants. lt’s like trying to put out 2
ﬁre by pouring gasoline on it.

Many suicides that do occur are
done under the inﬂuence of a sub-
stance. So if you are depressed, b
especially cautious about any form 0
chemical use. It may seem like it lnlps,
but it could be pushing you deeper intc
the problem.

Maybe the bottom line on all of this
is simply to recognize that mild depres-
sion is probably going to come into the
lives of us all from time to time. We
learn special ways to cope wiﬁi it.
Whether we simply wait it out, talk t
a friend, go on a shopping spree 0|
distract ourselves by becoming more
deeply immersed in our regular activi-
ties, any non-destructive coping tech-
nique is okay.

However, if we find that after sev-
eral weeks the depression hasn’t l ed,
it might be time to see a mental health
professional. He or she really can help.
There is no need to simply let natur
take its course when treatment exists
that can greatly speed up the recovery
process. .

© Dr. James W. Worth, 1993

. Iver Get A Pal
Smashed!

   
 

 

FRIENDS DDN'l [El FRIENDS
DRIVE DRUNK.

 
 
   

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs l-800-327-6013.

   
 

R FRATS! sononn1i3s:t‘i’¥
sruoem GROUPS!  

Raise as Much as You
Want in One Week’

$100. . .3600. . 31500!
Market Applications for the
hottest creditcard ever-
NEW GM MASTERCARD.
Users eam BIG DISCOUNTS
on GM CARS! Qualify for FREE
T-SHIRT 8: '94 CMC JIMMY.
Call l-800-950-l039,ext. 75.

  

 
   
   
   
       
 
 

  

 

EXCELLENT

EXTRA INCOME NOW! Kl .

::'::.1.":?.*:;z':° -=‘°°-~°°-v-~---
Bvooﬂvn. New York 11230

- IES is the only non-profit teacher placement organization, and there is n_Q__§j1argg to students!‘
For more information contact your career office or call (800)257-5102

lnbmatiomt Inc.
1375 Conny Islmd Ave.

IF YOU WANT TO GET FROM

 

  
 
     
   
   

STUDENT

PARKING

FACULTY

PARKING

 
   
  
   
     

START HERE

We will be visiting Washington and Lee
November 15-16

Want to teach? Consider independent (private) schools!
Over 450 independent schools have job openings every year and many seek the energy and
diversity of recent graduates to ﬁll their positions.

INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES - 353 NASSAU ST. - PRINCETON, NJ 08540 - (800) 257-5102
Email at TEACHIES@AOL.COM

 
  
     
    
  
  
    
    

  
  

 
 

  
  

0
e Rin v -tum Phi, October 15, 1993

 

H o m e c o m I n g
Weekend was the
setting for a few,
firsts in W&L his-
tory. Left: 38ers
cheer on a skydiver
they sponsored for
their55 reunion pre-
sentation to W&L.
Thereunionwasthe
firstt 55-year re-
union in W&L his-
tory.

Right: Ernie Will-
iams, ’38, presents
President John D.
Wilson with a
$25,000 check. The
donation was the
first ever made by a
class for their 55-
year reunion.
Below Left: The
weather gave W&L
a break Saturday.
Below Right: Two
generals watch the
action from the
sidelines. Despite
out performing
Davidson in the sta-
tistics cloumn W&L
still fell short in the
win column.

1
PAGE 11‘-

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   

     
 

  

Bring your Horse to

College
Stabling available just Off W&L "
Campus. Full Board/ Large Riding
Arena/ 80 Acres of Trials/
Lessons Available

0

ATTENTION FRESHMEN! !!
~ Remember how important the overnight stay is in
choosing a college? If you didn’t spend the night,
don’t you wish you could have? The Admissions

‘ office is looking for FRESHMEN

HOUSING HOSTS. Phone #’s 463-2194 (Day)
Apply before Nov. 1, Stop by our office for an 463-1859 (Evening)
application.

464-6620 (Barn)

 

DO YOU ENJOY
_ SHOOTING SKEET?



Y"I~
3
N .
Q
§

 

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL  

1 RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington. 

I Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.  and .‘7{e5taurant  . . ,’ .

1 

T‘-I-‘lg  Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. .

 A‘ QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS’ ~“’”’” Sh°°‘ 3“  Si’iz’§§§."irIIL'3 $3r°rI.":§§f,II§sii§.”Iiii§."3§?;i:3‘i§§i§i§:'3§ri1L'i'" . '

angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
« Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
~ to enjoy a round.
Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment — Closed Tuesc‘: j./s

setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions. Weekend of
October 22nd & 23rd, Tables still available for dinner.
Tuesdays- lnternational Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine
Saturdays— Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Fall / Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00
Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
Call for reservations: 703-463-9715

‘ -. I A Vol ‘eh. I . o ' - 'aO.
: :~' ‘.' '5‘ . ' . "'- :~‘ ‘* -
4.-.5'.‘.*-"’2.--’.-5?-':’.¢"-’-'-'  ‘V-?a.-E .  ..~'--re:

 

 

'.' at...-_ -,-,-3,.” Q...-,
. *':V\,-s r-.55.,-,.,5'; ~.~

   

 

I '3 Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) F‘ If
4' ' ~-

I

I
I
I
I
I

HAD A HOT
OHE LATELY?

Want it hot? We've got it. Saucy Meatball and
hearty Steak & Cheese. Steamin' hot subs
on fresh baked bread with free fixin‘s. it you're
looking for a hot time. come to Subway.

 
 
  
       
    

BUY OHE REGULAR FOOTLOHG HOT
SUB, GET OHE OF EOUAL VALUE FOR

503 E. Nelson St. Lexington, VA 24450

)mMMg_ .-.,..t,.w.»...._..~,.,,.,..,,,,.,.m...,..,..«_,.......;;\;.-¢«..A,,.-.v.....;.,...._._.,-.,,.:..,..;< ,. -4....‘-..-.-.-.w_-.;->-... .  ..

 

   

 I ‘ v ‘ssouaasxau-m«a«.2;«-awwoaxawsvmwnux<:x:.s:~;.y.::.x....z: :.. :«,.2-.:-..~. VI»V

‘Second lootlong sub must be of equal or lesser price. Limii: One coupon
per customer per visit. Not good in combination with any other offer.
- Offer expires:

99¢*

 

PAGE 12

   
  

As junior Bob Phillips looks on, freshmen defensive linemen Robert Hull and Peyton Williams attack the Davidson front line at

Wilson Field in the Generals’ Homecoming game, which Washington and Lee lost 21-14.

Eyes on the ball...

   

 sPORTs

Shut from eomn, fotall struggles Os

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Less than spectacular, dismal, even
failing—All are words that have been
used to describe this year’s Washing-
ton and Lee football team.

With an 0-4 start to the 1993 cam-
paign, the Generals have made most
people forget about the promise that
abounded at the inception of the sea-
son. A 5-4 season last year had many
holding out hopes of a second straight
solid, winning year.

The most recent loss in the General ’s
string was, by far, the most painful.
Leading 14-7 entering the 4th quarter,
W&L looked to be on their way to the
first victory of the year against the
Davidson Wildcats. A two touchdown
rally by the Wildcats spoiled the Gen-
erals hopes however, and left W&L on
the short end of a 21-14 Score.

Senior Tom Mason turned in an
outstanding perfonnance in the loss,
however. Mason rushed for over 100
v _ _ ' . . yards for the second straight week,
'5 _,  _  ' ‘ _ turning in a 135 yard effort. Mason’s
' yardage left him ranked third in the
conference with an average of 92.8
yards per game. The standout senior

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fling-tum Phi -

Volleyball ends slump, wins six .-

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Staff Writer

to move their record to 11-11.

15-8, 15-11.

matches.

 

Lynchburg15-7, 11-15, 15-5, 15-7.

..,,e,__,  »‘ 

After winning Thursday night against Emory and Henry, the Washington and
Lee volleyball team has raised its record to 13-11.
The Generals posted a 2-2 record this past weekend at the Gouchertoumament

W&L faced Pitt—.lohnstown in the first match of the tournament. Elizabeth
Bahn recorded five kills in the match, but the Generals couldn’t pull it off, falling

The team then got its first taste of victory for the weekend as they Shut down
Messiah 3-15, 15-7, 15-9. Freshman Virginia Yoerg, coming off a great week,
had ten kills to lead the Generals. On the week, Yoerg had 39 kills in just six

After losing to Lebanon Valley 15-13, 15-6 in the third match, the Generals
posted their second victory of the tournament. Yoerg was again the story, getting
eleven kills, as the team pulled it out 15-12, 15-10.

This past week signiﬁed a good start for the Generals as they embarked on a
key ﬁve-game stretch against all ODAC opponents. On Tuesday, W&L defeated

W&L moved its conference record to 3-3. lts three losses have come at the

The Fling-tum Phi, October 1 5.19

  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
    
  
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

lacks only 111 yards from beco =
only the 16th player in W&L histor
rush for 1000 yards in a career.
Once again, freshman Bro
Fischer turned in a solid performa
though not of the caliber of the pr
ous week’s. Fischer threw ﬁn
yards on 10—18passing withtwoto .
downs against two interceptions.
the overall Old Dominion Athl
Conference rankings, Fischer is for
with a rating of 100.2. 1
Another standout for W&L \
sophomore defensive tackle ‘R0
Hull, who racked up two more sack
raise his season total to 7. The Sc ‘
record for Sacks in a season is 10
1991. Hull also leads the team
tackles with 53.
Next week’s game at Hampd
Sydney will determine a great
about the W&L team. A win aga
the 3-2 (2-1 ODAC) Tigers could,
the Generalsbackonthewinningtr
Last year, Washington & Lee won ,
21 in a hard fought affair. A loss wo
virtually guarantee the W&L squ‘
losing season at 0-5. Despiteghe 5
that half the season remains, the W '
football team would be reduced to
cusing on individual milestones.

   

hands of the top three teams in the standings-Bridgewater, Guilford, and Eastern
Menonite. The next three games against ODAC teams give the Generals an
excellent chance to make up some ground.

 
     

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Women's soccer players carefully maneuver around their Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Hing-tum P.

opponent in a game last week.

    

E. Nelson St., Lexington

« ; SHEAR nmme 

Valley gaggle S  Hair Salon Penni ' Gail choosing a college? If you didn’t Spend the night,
., “ V S ecials don’t you wish you could have? The Admissiops ,
Hardware: Paints and Related Items Tanning Special-10 visits for $25.00 OfﬁCeIi_iE§%(iSnig;IO(r;FI_lI{g:EN
$2'00 Off on 3 hot Oil manicure’ A 1 before Nov 1 Stop by our office for an
Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. Good am, 10/31 17 s_ Randolph Ss PP Y 3- alication -
463-2186 464-1145 PP °

  
   
     
   
    
 
    
 
   
   
  
    
  

   
 
 

   
    
  

Mon - Sat
4‘ O M C1 -S t d . . .

53;‘?-'.‘».t:I.:.'.;I.I:t.<v.\3:!.~’.z“::  1<§’3.‘m.7"5:335 p.r3.ur ay 23 N. Mam St.
463-5988

THE FLIES

ci gripping tale of murder and revenge
by Jean-Paul Sartre

Volleyball players prepare to return a serve from Lynchburg.
Qewa

_ ATTENTION FRESHMEN!!!

Remember how important the overnight stay is in

   
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

 

(703) 464-6464

K g

S E N 1 0 R 3 1 ;°' 't.'.s°tt'm'a§,tIt.§..T§t.'..t'a°t° "; F \W 5: -

ARE YOU LOOKING FOR JOBS IN : °°gft;°;';‘§;;jg“°;h?"“ : W&L Art  Lexington
ADVERTISING — CONSULTING — COUNSELING — E Wonk, ‘gs mush hzppié, 3 Signatures:  Shop for
  t§.“t’t‘.‘t‘;§“““ ...:t..:::. :5 Pappagauo

LABORATORY RESEARCH — LAW — MTV — Edgvailfldljl/()aE1eSr1¥)irIl1e RAI?'I>.LiIeIi1Jr'  Ladies ’ Shoes,
PUBLISHING — RETAIL - SALES — SCIENTIFIC -: Clothing and
c 1 t ,h d- 1 d :. a
RESEACH—gg§II;5TSi§§<$f§§s§EACmNG- wt‘?’t“;L..t°t§’.*€:’.*3:.: i’t...t?;‘t .°t‘it?.§f. art :5 Asssssssiss
Sculpture by Ron Tunison :_ .
OVER 156 EMPLOYERS AT SLAC JOB FAIRS Pusup ‘NM~Amm Mary and George Washington pieces :E s
RESUME DEADLINE: ' - E: *
OCTOBER 22 1993 HoursMonJ-‘%::at?‘9‘-'fl.::n' 0 _ . :: 
9 ..__. I:
COME TO CDPO FOR DETAILS! W 463-7969 4 East Washin on Street :;
Lexmgt0ntVA 4450 5: Hours: 10 - 5:390

 
 

France Germany

General Information

011

 

STUDY ABROAD

Tlresda y, October 19

we

     
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

     
     
     
        

England

Meeting

 .......,_.........L,......,,!. - J.!..-...._.. ......._...._..L-

. at . .
. t »._ s g A Spring Term, F1nanc1al 1
Ellen Dean ‘94 (ctytemnestro) & Heather Aussiker ‘94 (Electra) 5 A Semester, or 7 P M  E3
’ = O O .
Oct. 22, 23, 25, 26 & so at 8:00 p.m.   S3 A F“11Yea‘ , AV311ab1e 

           

Oct. 24 & 30 at 2:00 p.m. *
Oct. 29 at 9:00 p.m.

‘JOHNSON THEATRE - LENFEST CENTER
5 ticket reservations463-8000-noon—4:OO p.m.oMor_.I.“-Fri.

111

Denmark

Room 114 University Center

.,...;__.ss..,.,_._..~,.,....« ....t ,..L......-.. _....-N. -r...

  

Gr;*13

 

 
 
 
 
  
   
 

\

y Harrisfeeter

 
 
  

”"‘”‘ ‘WW5’

 

QUALITY AND VARIETY

   

.1‘

U.S.D.A. CHOICE

 BONELESS CHUCK

ROAST

   

1' 199
7 LB.

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS
JUMBO PACK

I-EG
QUART'ER5..l.§.-.

        
     

LIMIT 3
PK GS. WITH
ADDTIONAL
PURCHASE

 

     
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
 

. REEN CABBAGE, CUCUMBERS OR

1 EI.I.OlM WHITE OR
 I-COLOR CORN

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

  

I2 PACK
I2 OZ. CANS

PEPSI
v

 

   

I-IARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

  

   
   
  
  
  

" SELECTED VARIETIES

GATORADE

 

   

 

L???” 159
STEW ......................... ..24 oz.

 

  
     
 

RUI-'I-'I.ES

POTATO CHIPS

   

THIRST OUENCHER f,E,‘_=E,C;f,”¢,V,’§,’*+’-§;”E5 3/99
 o VEGETABLES ............ ..i<s-1702..
32 oz.   189
TOOTHPASTE ...... ..6.4—8.2 oz.
' . ’t’/i’i5é%i-‘ii’éi‘i2l T(§UOCRE0)ER 99
BAKED HAM ............. ..LB.
SELECTED VARIETIES SELECTED VARIETIES

FINESSE
HAIR CARE

 

 
    
   

O

  

i5.5-6 oz. 7-no oz.

; CHEESE & PEPPERONI on ORE-IDA TATER T075
. DELUXE GOLDEN FRIES OR

BAGEL BITES GOLDEN CRINKLES

. 2/ 00
14 OZ.

 

   

   
 

    

   

Prices Effective Through October I9, I993

' Prices In This Ad Ettective Wednesday, October] 3 Through Tuesda , October 19 1993. in Lexington County Stores
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To
0

lers. We Glcdiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 15, 1993

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

Standings as of 10/11/93
Men’s Cross Country Women’s Soccer
Overall Records* ODAC Standings
Lynchburg 1 1 -0-0 Randolph-Macon 5-0-0
Eastern Mennonite 5-2-0 Washington and Lee 5-0-1
Hampden-Sydney 8-5-0 Roanoke 6-1-1
Washington and Lee 3-2-0 Va. Wesleyan -2-0
Roanoke 3-3-0 Lynchburg 3-3-O
Bridgewater 3-9-0 Guilford 2-4-0
Randolph-Macon 1-11-0 R-M Woman’s 2-5-0
Sweet Briar 0-7-0
Hollins 0-5-0
Women’s Cross Country
Overall Records*
Volleyball
Roanoke 3-0-0 Overall Records
Emory and Henry 2-0-0
Lynchburg 2-1-0 Brid ewater 14-3
Eastern Mennonite 3-3-0 Guil ord 18-5
Washington and Lee 1-1-0 Eastern Mennonite 14-9
Bridgewater 1-3-0 R-M Women’s College 12-8
Lynchburg 7-7
Washington and Lee 10-11
Men’s Soccer SWCCI Bn'ar 5-7
Overall Records R0aIl0k€ 5-7
Hollins 5-8
Roanoke 12-1-0
Va. Wesleyan 11-1-1
Randolph-Macon 12-2-0 0DXE"§{::(',lingS
Hampden-Sydney 8-4-2
Eastern Mennonite 8-6-0 Guilford 6-0
1-Ynchburg 5'84 Bridgewater 4-0
Emory and Hem)’ 3'-5'0 Eastern Mennonite 4-0
Wa,5hm to“ and Lee 4'7'0 R-M Women’s College 2-3
Gmlfor 2- -1 Hollins 2-3
Bridgewater 1-8-0 Sweet Bria, 2_4
Washington and Lee 1-3
Roanoke 1-3
Men’s Soccer Emory and Henry 1-4
ODAC Standings Lynchburg 0-3
Roanoke 6-0-0
Rando1ph—Macon 5-1-0
Virginia Wesleyan 4-1-0
Eastern Mennonite 3-3-0
Washington and Lee 2-3-0
Hampden-Sydney 2-3-0
Lynchburg 2-4-0
Guilford 1-5-0
Bridgewater 0-5-0 Washington and Lee
Team Records
(updated for 10/15/93)
Women’s S099" Women’s Tennis 2-0
Overall Records Women’s Soccer 7-3-1
Water Polo 7-6
, Randol h'Ma°°“ 10'1'0 Men’s Cross Country 3-2
Washington an Lee 7-3-0 Volleyball 12_11
Roanoke 7'5'0 Women’s Cross Country 1-1
LY1_1Chb“Yg 6‘6'0 Men”s Soccer 6-7
Guilford 4-7-0 football   . 3 ». 0-4
R-M Women’s ‘ 4-7-0
Va. Wesle an 4-7-0 8' _ -
Sweet Brig; 2_8_0 Overall 38 34 1
Hollins 2-9-0

Mims Rowe rappelling from the footbridge was the photogenic athlete of the week
for Oct. 15, 1993

*Only dual and tri-meets are
included in cross country records

 

»
I

hoto by Sarah Gilbert/'I71Ring-tum Phi

 

  

Last Week:

WSoc—defeats SweetBriar, Guilford
FB—W&L 14, Davidson 21
Vo1leybal1—wins ﬁve, loses three

. MSoc—defeats Hampden-Sydney

S

PAGE 14

@112 iﬂing-tum lﬂlii

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

This Week:

FB—at Hampden-Sydney 10/16
WTennis—MWC 10/ 16 ,
X-C—at Virginia State Meet 10/ 16
WP—at EWPA Round Robin 10/ 10

OCTOBER 15, 1

Women’s tenis hot in

  

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Pi

Junior Marilyn Baker smashes a return to her Radford opponent. Washington and Lee defeated Radford Oct. 14, 6-3.

J OCKSHORTS

 

_ Men’s Cross Country

Washington and Lee men’s cross country, competing without the women last weekend, failed to
overcome the power of Old Dominion Athletic Conference rival Lynchburg, which had the top three
finishers.

‘The Generals, however, did ﬁnish above Hampden Sydney and Catholic University to score two wins
(wins and losses are only assessed in cross country for dual, tri— or quad-meets).

Sophomores Brad Paye and Tom Fink, again leading the Generals, finished ﬁfth and sixth overall.

Paye ran a quick 29:02, with Fink just seconds behind him in 29:14.

Freshman Alvin Townley continues in his top form, and ﬁnished in the top ten at Lynchburg with a
time of 29:52.

Senior Brian Shearer, in his best race of the season, ﬁnished in 30:48.

Water Polo

Water polo, after abye because of a cancelled Virginia State meet last weekend, will return to the water
Oct. 16-17 as they head to Annapolis, Maryland.

Washington and Lee will face Dayton, 11th-ranked Navy, 19th-ranked Richmond and 18th-ranked
Arkansas-Little Rock in the Eastern Water Polo Association Championships.

Senior All-American Greg Golub,.who suffered a shoulder injury against Loyola Marymount two
weeks ago in California, is still undecided for this weekend.

Women’s Cross Country

After an off week, the women’s cross country team returns this weekend for the State Championships.
The Generals will attempt to defend the Division II-lll title they won last year. The biggest competition
should come from Mary Washington, which beat Washington and Lee in a dual meet earlier this year.
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer, completely recovered from the spider bite that kept her from a few

days of practice over a week ago, will return as defending State Champion, hoping to continue her
undefeated season.

Look out below....
 » is 

  
  

   

 

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Phi

Sophomore Mims Rowe slowly lowers herself to the ground near the Chessie
trail. Members of the Outing Club rappelled from the footbridge Oct. 12. The
unpublicized event drew over 20 spectators and hopeful participants.

\

 

fall sason

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

 

With junior All—Ameri
Marilyn Baker at the helm,
Washington and Lee wome
tennis team is the only per
squad at W&L yet this sea:
Of course, the Generals have (
played two contests in this, t
fall season, but their recon
impressive.

After a match against Rad ‘
Thursday,whichWashington:
Lee won 6-3, Baker in sing
and in doubles with parti
sophomore Julie Ayersjiop
advance far in next weeker
National Championship.

Baker comes strongly off
second All-American sea
after playing and teaching ter
all summer. With the added
perience of these two pagt me
and the upcoming contest (

 

16 versus Mary Washington, ,

and Ayers should be in top ft

to face the tough competitioi

Nationals.

The Generals’ other win 1'
season was against C tho
wheretheytookfiveofsixsin
titles to overpower the Ca
nals.

Steve re-castsseries hunch,
moves gamely on to football

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

The sports world is about to
pass dominion from baseball to
football and basketball. Now
that the World Series is here,
baseball readies for its last gasp
of glory. The fallclassic(while
driving some fans to bitter
mourning this year) represents
the best baseball has to offer.

Toronto has the edge on ex-
perience and should beat the
Phillies in a six game set. Phila-
delphia has a great deal of tal-
ent and will put together a few
remarkable games. In the end,
however, just as with the White
Sox, the Blue Jays hittingshould
just prove too much for the
Phillies to handle.

I have given football a hard
time all year long, but now it is
actually time to start enjoying
the sport (it’s actually starting
to mean something now). Al-
though some teams (the Atlanta
Falcons) wish the season was
overalready,the remaining two
months will hold both uncer-
tainty and promise for most
squads (right up until the
Superbowl, where the NFC
team will win yet another ex-
ceedingly boring blowout).

Actually, the Superbowl is
not THAT bad. After all, there
are some truly great commer-
cials that air during the game.
Besides, the half time show is
usually decent (except last year:
Michael Jackson?!?). Once
again there will be the Bud Bowl
game, as well. There might be
some new scoring record set
this time, too. Golly, maybe
even Buffalo (4-1 at this point)

will be there (what would the
Superbowl be without the
Bills?)! OK, so I’ll still watch
the game like every other idiot in
the Western world.

Now finally, the main topic
for the week: college basketball.
In a few weeks, many teams will
hold what is known as “Mid-
night Practice.” On theﬁrst day
of practice (as mandated by that
friendly, caring body: the
NCAA) the teams get together at
exactly 12 midnight to celebrate
the beginning of basketball sea-
son.

The conferences to beat this
year will be the Atlantic Coast
Conference (big surprise there)
and the Big Ten (or eleven, but
who wants to argue semantics?)
The University of North Caro-
lina and Duke (once again: Big
surprise) ﬁeld the strongest teams
out of the ACC while Michigan
and Indiana will ﬁght for the top
of the Big Ten.

Parting Shots——

What in the world hap-
pened to the Washington
Redskins? How does ateam
go from the playoffs toa41-
7rout at home? If you know
the answer, ﬁll out ‘our

Redskins coach application. '

The Dolphins won .
rather Pyhrric victory last
week. Although they won
the game, they lost all-pro
qarterback Dan Marino for
the year. Without Mari o’s
golden arm, the Dolp ins
stand about as much of a
chance at the playoffs as the
Atlanta Falcons.

Phillies fans: Does John
Kruk ever bathe? Can Mitch
Williams ever have a 1’-2-3
inning?

Don’t worry Falcons fans
(are there any left?): Deion
is back!!!

To all those industriou
souls who read all the wa
through the column...Ar
you that bored? '

 

 

Soccer cuts losses, ,
wins two in a row

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Inexperience can give even the most success-
ful coaches ﬁts. A thoughtless mistake can be the
difference between a win and a loss.

“This is the most inexperienced team l’ve ever
coached,” says coach Ralph Piranian. According
to Piranian, the team’s slow start this year was the
result of nothing more than inexperience. Follow-
ing a streak of four consecutive losses to open the
year, the Generals have played a much improved
brand of soccer, going 5-3 in their last eight
games.

The plus for the W&L squad this year has been
a remarkable work ethic. ln continuing his com-
ment about this year’s team, Piranian said, “This
is also one of the hardest working teams l’ve ever
coached.” In Piranian’s opinion, the team put as
much effort as possible into every game. “There

were some games in which I thought we iﬁaye
stupid, but I always thought we played hard,” re
marked Piranian.

Following Tuesday’s 3-2 win over Hampde
Sydney, the Generals improved to 4-7 and 3-3 in th
ODAC (Old Dominion Athletic Conference). To thi
point in the season, Shag Drewry has led the scorin
with contributions from numerous other playek (i .
eluding a score from an unlikely quarter—keepe
Anthony Mazerrelli).

In a 3-2 win over Dickenson College, General’
scoring leader Shag Drewry tallied a goal in the la .
20 minutes that tied the game and sent it into over
time. The win was of considerable important sinc
Dickenson was ranked in the east region. 0

There is only one home game (amidst a slew o
away contests) remaining for the Generals before thi.
ODAC tournament (against Eastern Menonite). I
strong ﬁnish could produce another .500 or bette
season; something soccer fans at W&L have becomt
accustomed to.

 

