 
  
    
 
   
  
   
 
  

 
  
  

 

’§oday:_ Increasingly cloudy, high in
 . low 605 v .
Topight: Rain or showers, lows in 40s
ﬁturday; "Rain or showers, breezy
‘ cooler 50-60, lows 30s — A
Sunday: Breezy cool 50-55, low 30s
 go back one hour at 2 a.m
- unday,0ct. 31 A ‘ '

JAMES G. l_E‘r'BURN UBRARY
WASHINGTON 3. LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXlNGTON, VA 24450

OCT 2 91993?

Parents’ Weekend Edition

 

 Mountain Views

and Waterfalls

A guide to local attractions

Women’s Soccer
advances in ODACs

3%

he ﬂing-tum Iﬂlii

‘ OLUME 93, NO. 08

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 29, 1993

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Organizations ask EC for $9000

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

Two weeks after the EC approved its bud-
get, two more organizations came in and asked
for a combined total of over $9000.

'ﬂiat’s the dilemma the Executive Commit-
tee faced when the Freshman Orientation Com-
mittee and Club Ice Hockey came to Monday’s
meeting to request money from the EC.

“We just took office,” said FOC co-chair
Kris Fegenbush, explaining why he and co-

chair Sue Krawchuk hadn’t appeared before
_ the£C earlier, during the budget hearings.

Fegenbush and Krawchuk asked the EC for
$7,950, after receiving $500 from the EC last
year. Fegenbush explained that freshman ori-
entation has been “inferior” in the past and that

Fegenbush said other schools comparable to
W&L spend far more on their freshman orien-
tation programs. He said Davidson College
spends $25,000 on their program and Centre
College, which is half the size of W&L, spends
$15,000.

Krawchuk said she would like to see a pro-
gram that freshmen can have fun with.

“From the freshman’s perspective.. .[orien—
tation] was a horrible thing,” she said.

Fegenbush agreed, saying, “people were
sneaking out of orientation stuff.”

Fegenbush said FOC would like to com-
pletely revamp the orientation program, start-
ing with eliminating Playfair.

But EC President Bob Tompkins said the
EC would like to look into procuring the money
from other sources, such as funds controlled by
the various deans.

Tompkins. “We came into

order to help defray the costs, but Mintz said

this year with less money
than we came in with last
year.”

The EC passed a pro-
posal to delay voting on
allocating money to FOC
until Tompkins could speak
to Dean Manning and lFC
President Curt Smith about
the issue.

“Something like this
would be a good argument
for raising [student activity
fees],” said Tompkins.

The EC also heard from
Eric Mintz of Club Ice
Hockey, who requested

 

Tompkins

team members already pay
for their own equipment and
provide their own transpor-
tation to Roanoke for games.

EC members agreed to
allocate $1,600 to the club,
to be taken from the EC’s
reserve funds.

‘‘In keeping with the tra-
dition that we never give
anyone exactly what they ask
for, the number that pops
into my head is $1,600,” said
Tompkins.

Jeff Rogers, chairman of
the Emergency Loan Com-
mittee, was also present at

operating budget of close to $4,000, of which
they needed $3,000. The EC voted to take
$1,000 from the ELC’s budget, which will be
put into the EC reserve funds.

Rogers said the ELC had “two or three
outstanding loans.” He said one of the loans
was in default, but that the person who took it
out is “still a student.” According to Rogers,
the ELC has the power to withhold grades and/
or block registration if a loan is not paid back
within a reasonable time.

The EC also voted to allow Rogers to “go
into the red” if the ELC needs extra money for
loans.

The EC also heard an update from the Stu-
dent-Faculty Hearing Board and welcomed the
new freshman representative, Marcus Rayner.
They also assigned EC members to observe

Ovel-$1,350 for his organization EC members the meeting to update the EC on the ELC’s Contact, the Publications Board and the Stu-

other schools “laugh at [W&L’s] program.”

“This is a big chunk of change,” said

suggested that Club Ice Hockey charge dues in

progress. Rogers said his committee had an

Women’s
Rush to
get 150

 ILIJOURRAINIE TiGAs I ‘
Phi Staff Writer

One hundred fifty women
signed up for sorority Rush on
Sunday, October 17.

Registration was held in the
Pit from 3 to 5 p.m. Women paid
a $15 registration fee and could
buy T-shirts for $5.
egistration continued
_ through the week, from October
17 until October 24. Lise Brown,
Panhellenic membership chair,
e s t i m a t e d
that an addi-
tional 15 to
. 20 women
signed up
during the
, week, includ-
ing “some
sophomores
and a few

 

 Clark

juniors.”

I" he number of women that
signed up for Rush is approxi-
mately the same as last year.

There can now be “no formal
organized contact between Greek
women and freshman women,”
according to Brown. Accidental
contact is not prohibited. ,

Sorority Rush begins January
7 and lasts one week. It consists
of four nights of parties and con-
cludes with Bid Day.

One change has been made to

V the process. Previously, when a
ruﬂiee was invited to all four
preference parties on the last
night, she had to decline one.
This year rushees may attend all
preference parties to which they

A

ﬁn.

dent Activities Board.

Freshmen
get grades

' WBy’JAY WHHE
Phi Contributing Writer

In accordance with the chang-
ing of the leaves occurs the pe-
rennial processof Fall term mid-
term examinations.

Each year students, still fresh
from summer, must buckle down
and face the year’s first set of
knowledge indicators. This pro-
cess is particularly jarring for the
freshman class, the class of 1997.

Not only must they contend
with the difficulties of being in a
foreign environment, there is also
present the lively social atmo-.
sphere that goes along with
Washington and Lee. Both re-
quire a certain amount of adjust-
ment time and are intruded upon
by the first set of of many college

speed, so too does the possibility
of a stern lecture from the mater-
nal and paternal units concem-
ing academic performance.

According to Dean of Fresh-
men‘Dennis Manning, the aver-
age midterm GPA for all fresh-
men women was 2.766, while
the mens’ came in at 2.467. The
overall GPA averages out to
2.617 for the entire freshman
class. Of those, 20 fell below the
below 1.5 mark. Freshman whose
GPA fall below 1.5 at the end of
the academic year are subject to
the automatic rule, and are asked
to sever all ties with the Univer-
sity.
Dean of Students David
Howison remarked on some key
points that he felt were repre-
sented in these grades and those
in recent times.

Watson Pavilion Dedication

Last weekend’s weather couldn’t have been better for the Watson Pavilion dedication. Over 200 people
came to the ceremony which was part of a two-day celebra
tours of the Reeves Center and an open house at the Watso
she and the Board of Trustees did not see eye to eye at first on the creation of the Pavillion, but she
quipped, “They came ‘round.” 5 '

Photo by Patrick Hineley

tion that included symposiums, lectures, guided
n Pavillion. Elizabeth Watson admitted that

are invited. «

Tuition buys more than classes  

Academic programs soak up two-thi

 
   
 

E lnstructiori
Public Service
Academic Support
 Strident Services

 

17,405,000 '
8 E Institutional Support

I Physical Plant
E Auxiliary Enterprises
D 'l‘raixsfere

Expenditures for 1992-93, total expenditures: $37,988,000

By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

Every Washington and Lee
student pays over $1100 per year
to keep W&L looking pretty.

Still, the nine percent of tu-
ition spent on Physical Plant is
only a fraction of the funds for
academic programs and support,
which take roughly two-thirds of
the University’s operating bud-
get.

According to University Trea-
surer Larry Broomall, tuition is
the largest contributor (approxi-
mately 64 percent of University
revenues) to meeting such ex-
penditures as faculty and staff
salaries, benefits, department

rds of W&L’s budget

supplies, travel expenses, print-
ing, and “the typical kinds of
expenses any business would
have.” ,

However, tuition is “basically
one of several sources of income
that help to support the univer-
sity,” said Broomall. “lt is al-
most misleading to say that your
tuition dollar goes tothisorthat.”
Other sources of income include
endowments, gifts, trusts, the
annual fund, and even applica-
tion fees. Broomall said, “You
can say that two—thirds of every
dollar this [Treasurer’s] ofﬁce
spends is supplied by tuition.”

Broken down, about 45 per-
cent of University money goesto

hvsee TUITION, page 8

midterrns.
As Parents’ Weekend ap-
proaches at an alarming rate of

he see GRADES, page 8

. The Princeton Review
Student Access Guide —
The Best 286 Colleges

' Beautiful Campus
V 3. Hollins College’
6. University of Richmond
. 7 .' Sweet Briar College
. I ' 13. Washington and Lee University

Happiest Students _
.51. Hollins"
9. W&L
12. Sweet Briar '

. Most Homogeneous Student Body
' - 1. University of Richmond
, 6. W&L
 18. Hampden-Sydney College‘

Lots Of Hard Liquor
3'. W& L ’
5. Richmond
17. Randolph-Macon

Major Fraternity and Sorority
. ’ 1. W&L
, 4. Richmond
15. Randolph-Macon

I , Best Overall Academics
17. w&L

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Peacekeepers say at least 15
Muslim villagers killed

United Nations troops looking through the burnt remains of a
Muslim village north of Sarajevo found at least 15 bodies, confirm-
ing a Croat mass killing. ‘

A U.N. statement said Stupni Do, a hamlet of approximately
250 people about 20 miles north of Sarajevo, was the site of a Croat
massacre. The whereabouts of the other villagers are unknown.
Croats barred peacekeepers from reaching the village for three
days, after threatening the U.N. troops with rocket-propelled
grenades and anti-tank weapons.

Fighting calms down in
Mogadishu, wounded released
United Nations officials reported only sporadic gunfire in the

Somali capital on Wednesday. ,
The latest violence, which broke out on Monday, produced at

least 50 wounded, most of which were released from hospitals

Wednesday. A U.N. spokesman said the U.N. force was not
involved in ending the violence, which killed at least 11 people.

The Nation 

Fires rage through California

    

Thousands of acres and dozens of homes throughout southern
California were destroyed by fire Wednesday.

Fierce winds helped to fuel the ﬁres, one of which forced the
evacuation of several animals from the San Diego Zoo. Seven fires
were reported burning from Ventura County to the Mexican
border. Dry weather and 60 mile per hour winds are helping to keep
the fires going in some areas. Hundreds of homes have been
evacuated. '

‘Clinton gives in to criticism

President Clinton released a revamped health care plan Wednes-
day that put off universal coverage by one year and offered
significant concessions to his critics. . 

Clinton hopes to ensure every American ' a standard- set "of
benefits by 1998. The President and Mrs. Clinton delivered their
1,300 page Health Security Plan to Capitol Hill Wednesday. The
latest version of the plan makes concessions in order to win over
disillusioned legislators, special interest groups and other Ameri-
can citizens who were put off by what Clinton unveiled in Septem-
ber.

“Superboy” survives leap from
building  

A five-year-old boy sustained no injuries whatsoever after a fall
from the seventh ﬂoor of a New York apartment building.

The boy, Paul Rosen, was resting comfortably at a New York
Hospital on Monday, after his fall from his bedroom window onto
concrete. New York Newsday called the incident “the miracle on
79th Street.” Rosen suffered no abrasions or broken bones in the
fall, which one paramedic described by saying “it was‘ like the
angels caught him.” Investigators say the boy was leaning out the
window in an attempt to retrieve a dangling toy microphone.

“Assisted suicide” ruled a
homicide by examiner

A medical examiner in the case of a Michigan woman who died
in the presence of Dr. Jack Kevorkian ruled that her death was a
homicide, and not a suicide.

Dr. Ljubisa Dragovic said Kevorkian’s involvement in the
death puts the death outside the realm of suicide. According to
Dragovic, 72-year-old Merian Frederick died of carbon monoxide
poisoning in Kevorkian’s apartment. One of Kevorkian’s attor-
neys said Kevorkian could not be tried under Michigan’s new
assisted suicide law because a death has to be ruled a suicide in
order for prosecutors to use that course of action.

Killer moose on the loose _

An Anchorage, Alaska woman was found dead outside her
home Sunday, apparently trampled by a moose.

The woman had gone outside to check on two puppies, which
were found unharmed in the woman’s yard. Investigators said the
puppies may have spurred the attack, as male moose are especially
aggressive toward dogs. An adult moose can weigh up to 1,700
pounds. ~

The State €17:

Anti-Barney exhibit pulled

A Halloween attraction featuring the hanging “death” of a
Barney the Dinosaur doll was pulled from a Colonial Heights
Jaycees display on Tuesday. ~

The display was removed from the Jaycees Haunted Forest
when a single patron out of 1,600 complained about the hanging
doll. The complaintant said her two children were disturbed by the
attraction and feared that their television idol had been “killed” in
the display. The display featured a song parody of the Barney
theme song - “I hate you, you hate me. Let’s get together and hang

Barney.”

  

The Rin -tum Phi Ocober 29 1993

 

N DI offers students low prices 

By ERiN GNIDZIEJKO
Phi Contibuting Writer

Have you ever considered what
you’ll do after college?

Will you move into your own house
or apartment? Start a family? Buy a
car?

How are you going to afford it?

A possible solution is Network Di-
rect Incorporated, an organization de-
signed to bring its members name brand
products at manufacturer’s prices. NDI
promises a price lower than the best
advertised price and a ‘double the dif-
ference’ guarantee if the consumer can
prove a better value somewhere else.
This guarantee covers all the products
available through NDI, from VCR’s
and ampliﬁers to strollers and day beds.

NDI credits its service to its ad-
vanced databases which provide in-
stant price quotes and order assistance.
To purchase an item, a member calls
the customer service department and
gives his NDI membership number,
the manufacturer’s name, the model
number, the description of the product,
and his charge card number. Unlike
most mail order companies, the prod-
ucts that NDI handles are shipped pre-
paid, and the manufacturer’s warranty
is extended, in most cases, up to a year.

’ Thought the initial membership cost
is low compared with what one might
expect to save with the program ($1000
over a three year period) , a member is

only guaranteed a savings of $1000 .

after a minimum of $7000 is spent
through the NDI program. Following
the first year, membership is acted on
by an annual activity fee (not to exceed
$65) and an additional renewal fee. For
this reason, the choice to join NDI
seems beneficial to an active consumer,
but perhaps a poor choice for someone
who is not planning heavy spending in
the future.

It may seem that NDI can provide
almost anything a customer desires,
but in actuality many items are not
available through the program. Besides
the obvious —clothing—— NDI does
not carry many popular brand names
(Kenmore and Sears among others).
Still it has additional benefits such as
cut-rate travel, eyeglass care, and a
grocery coupon service (available at an
additional cost).

Earlier this month, the University

Division ofNDl visited W&L’s frater-

nity houses, armed to the teeth with
propaganda about their program. Slide
shows hinting of free vactions and re-
duced price automobiles lured students.
The enlisting brothers of each house
were awarded with free airline tickets
to one of several tempting locations or
free lodgings there once the airline
tickets were purchased through NDI.
Convinced by these sugary offers
many W&L students have signed their
names to a lifelong membership in
NDI. They, it seems, have decided that
the future holds a life of consumerism.

Some studentshave signed lifetime contracts with NDI

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

’93 law grads

shine on bar exam  

Fl'0ll Staff Reports

93 W&L Law grads exceed average
pass rate on Virginia Bar
Recent publication of the Virginia
Bar examination results shouw that
92.2 percent of Washington and Lee
University’s law graduates passed the
bar exam.
The overall pass rate for the Vir-
ginia Bar Exam was 77 percent.
“While the law school does not edu-

cate students specifically for the bar
exam, it does provide a well rounded
and very demanding legal education
for our students,”'said Randall
Bezanson, Dean of the W&L Lag’
School. “Our high degree of success on
the Virginia Bar Exam is a testament to
the high quality of our students,” he
added.

Fifty-one spring graduates from
W&L Law School took the exam in
July. Of these, 47 passed. ,.

Solati Trio appearing 0

at the Lenfest Center‘

Fron Staff Reports

The Boston-based Solati Trio will
be in residence to teach and perform at
Washington and Lee for one week,
beginning November 2.

ln additon to master classes and
tutorial sessions, the group will give a
performance on Nov. 2, at 8 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center.

In the recital, the trio will perform
works by Beethoven, Mathis and
Tchaikovsky. They will join the
Rockbridge Orchestra on Nov. 6 in a
performance of Beethoven’s Concerto
for Violin, Cello, Piano, and Orches-
tra. Both concerts are open to the pub-
lic free of charge.

The Solati trio fonned in 1984 and
has since appeared in numerous highly
acclaimed concerts, presenting a wide
range of repertoire i ncluding premieres
of new works written especially for the
trio.

In-"1985, they won first prize in the
Shoreline Alliance New England
Chamber Music Competition.

Members of the Solati Trio at.
Sophia Hemian, violinist, and Ludmilla
Lifson, pianist, twin sisters who were
born and trained in Russia. They gradu-
ated from the Leningrad Conservatory
of Music and were both appointed to
the faculty.

New England-based emigres sin?
1979, the Herman-Lifson duo has pe -
formed throughout the eastern part of
the U.S.

The third member, vioincellist Hrant
Tatian, is a native of New York and a
graduate of hte Juilliard School of
Music where he studied with Leonard

‘Rose for four years. Tatian has beﬁi

principal cellistwith the St. Louis Sym-
phony and the RochesterPhilaharrnonic
and performs extensively.

The Solati Trio residency at W&L
was made possible by a grant from the

' Class of 1963 endowment.

Q

JublLee and Southern Comfort (pictured above) will perform in Lee Chapel at 5:30 on Saturday

91
1

photo by Bethany Smith, the Ring-tum Phi
for Parents’ Weekend. . r

 

 

 

 

A The Ring-tum Phi, October 29, 1993
Freshmen respresentatives tell all

Newly elected officers discuss plans, goals and expectations for the year and their class

   
 

By BUNNY WONG From the speaking tradition to the rigorous Your new VlCe' we’re both willing to do everything for it.” life as a freshmanrepresentative.
Phi Staff writer academics, he’s in love with W&L, , As vice-president, Hartman Wlll also serve . “ltwas interesting, and Iwas able tosee how
“A1vin’s a really nice guy and I’m sure he’ll Presldent: Sasha on the FLC and the SCC. important the EC really IS to student life,said
be a very dedicated class president,” said fresh- For Hartman, after college-plans include Rayner of his ﬁrst EC meeting. _
man Deborah Zollmann. Hartlnan going into advertising and marketing. “I ran [for EC representative] to do my part
‘ . His “first order of business” will be to start a .. “I’m going to go right into the work force to maintain the honor system and traditions of
Meet your Presldentt recycling program with the help of the Freshman [after undergraduate school],”
, Leadership Council (FLC) over which he willbe said Hartman, who currently
AIVIII TOWnley presiding. Sitting on a mini-refrigerator and swing- plans to major in business ad-
“l’ve really enjoyed workingwith [the FLC],” ing her legs, blue-eyed, blond-haired Sasha ministration-
said Townley,. Hartman looks happy. “Sasha Hartman is a model
Washington and Lee on a Sunday after- He also wantsto “try toexpand”the interdorrn Happy to be the freshman class vice-presi- student,” said freshman Amy
notii. The Hill is strewn With thousands of volleyball competitions for freshmen. dent, happy the Blue Jays won the World Jarvis.
As the freshman class Series, but most of all, happy to be here. “She represents everything
president, Townley will “W&L’s the best,” says Hartman, who W&L stands for. I think she
serve on the Student Con— was born in Toronto, Canada. will do an inconceivably ex-
duct Committee (SCC). She lived there for sixteenyears before traordinary job as our fresh-
He also runs for W&L’s moving to her present home in Montgomery, man class vice president,” she
cross-country team. New Jersey, said.
“Cross-country makes Hartman attended Montgomery High, The Class of ‘97 is in for
me discipline myself,” he Marcus Rayner, the recently elected repre— some optimism.
said. sentative to the Executive Committee, at- “I love making people
Cross country and Eagle tended the same high school. happy,” Hartman Said.
Scouts were two of Montgomery had the honor of being se-
Townley ’s favorite high lected as one of the 43 schools in the nation to
school activities. be a Blue Ribbon school.

“We got to go hiking a Hartman feels she will work well with _
lot,” he said with an all- class president Alvin Townley, who she met And y0ur E.C.

American smile. while visiting W&L.
Like most W&Lstudents, “We basically have the same theories,” Representa-
Townley is organized. she said. “We both love [W&L] so much that .
“I know that tive: Marcus
I don ’t have
time to goof
Off, Rayner
He ’s also fo-
I cused (“I’d love , i _
to teach here”), Rayner
sincere (“I hope
I can serve the Walking into a room,
freshman class Marcus Rayner looks every
well”) and bit the politician...composed, focused, and W&L)’
charming (“Is f1'ieI1dlY- I The EC meets once a week to discuss
this when I’m And if the recent freshman elections for allocation of funds, honor matters, and other
i g I / supposed to say the‘Executive Committeeare any indication, business,
Towme s o m e t h i n g he IS every bit the politician. . Rayner’s political bent appears in his other
y witty?”). iisomedal’ I hope to fun for Public office,” W&L activities. He is a member of the College
Townley is Said Rayner. . Republicans and reads the news for WLUR.
autiﬂnn leaves and Alvin Townley, book in considering a degree in politics and He graduated from Montgomery High in Not surprisingly, he plans to major in politi-
hand, is studying in the midst of them. sociology, though he’s not com. Montgomery, New Jersey. Rayner visited cal scienceand/or public policy.

It’s impossible to ignore the atmosphere. pletely sure, . Montgomery along with freshman class Vice “I enjoy them,” he said.

“I walked on this campus and it just felt His present goals after under- President Sasha l‘laI1man- After undergraduateschool, he is consider-
right,” said freshman class president Townley. graduate school include getting his “They [the residents of his hometown] ing going to law school or getting his MBA.
“The atmosphere is so different than every- doctorate and teaching at a univer- were really happy for us,” he said. Although a New Jersey-based boy, Rayner
where else.” sity. The freshman Class Seems to be happy for looked closely at Virginia Universities his se-

'li>wnley was accepted through the early- The class of 1997’s new him, too. nior year_

- ecision process to W&L. president might be a leader, but his “Marcus always looks like he’s got it all The University of Virginia and the Univer-

“This is the only place I wanted to go,” said best quality is his ability to make together,” said freshman Tracy Marshall. sity ofthe south were two of the three he

ownley. you feel good about attending “From what l"’° 59°“ ahd heard. he~’S> A ‘considered’.

Healso applied to the University of Geor— W&L. honest and diligent and l’ think he’ll SerVe the" ‘ However, he chose to come to W&L.
ia as a back—up school. Townley attended “There’s no other college in the job Well,” She Said- ‘‘I just fell in love with [W&L],” he said.
ublic school in Atlanta, where he was born United States where l would . Although just elected to serve on the EC, Judging from the past elections, w&L re-
4 ndgaised. rather be,” — — — — — . . Rayner has already been able to experience turns the sentlrnent,

Hartman

~ ON THE
SHOULDERS
~ or GIANTS

88 million raised

I. from contributions by 12,7 7 8 alumni, parents, friends,
faculty, staff corporate, and foundation donors.
~ nu ion to go
3 9 ll °

to reach our goal of $127 million by July 1, I995.

Wenecd your support. 

lb THE CAMPAIGN FOR
Washington and Lee

8

...,¢«g~ .ur\v|r»¢\-ﬂzC'V\,‘/‘ka‘-«V-s-dn\4a"-1"’ -~

 

    

PAGE 4

W&L charges less and has less

By RICHARD PELTZ
Special to the Phi

If the bottom line is value for money, every-
body knows W&L comes out on top. The
university has taken best—buy honors in U.S.
News & World Report ’s rankings of liberal arts
colleges for three years running.

But judging by another bottom line ~—— net
assets — W&L ﬁnishes further back in the
pack. _ _ ‘

W&L’s net assets —~— $181 million in 1991
— are less than half those of Amherst and
Williams in Massachusetts and Swarthmore in
Pennsylvania, the three school U.S. News picked
as the top liberal arts colleges in the country.

Williams reported net assets of $413 million
in 1991, Swarthmore reported $399 million,
and Amherst reported $394 million.

Not surprisingly, perhaps, Amherst, Wil-
liams and Swarthmore were absent from the
best—buy ranks.

Despite their relative wealth, they charge
higher tuition than W&L’s $12,330 in 1992-93.
Williams students paid $17,840 the same year.

In a comparison of the latest available tax
returns from W&L and eight other schools,
W&L ranked seventh of nine in terms of bot-
tom-line, net assets.

All eight schools ranked above W&L in the
U.S. News survey of overall quality.

W&L’s net assets topped those of Davidson
College in North Carolina and Haverford Col-
lege in Pennsylvania, both of which reported
about $130 million in net assets in 1991 and
1992 respectively.

Despite its relatively small net assets, W&L
held up well against the competition by other
financial measures. The tax return show:

0 W&L generated $56 million in revenue in
1990-91 and gained almost $15 million in capi-
tal.

O The university paid Bass Construction
$8.8 million in 1990-91, about five times more
money than any of the other schools reported
spending on a professional service.

0 Contributions to W&L in 1990-91 totaled
almost $14 million, $5 million more than the
year before.

0 Instructional expenses cost W&L $27.5
million in 1990-91, about two-thirds of all
spending.

W&L Executive Director of Development
Lex McMillan said there is no cause for con-
cern about W&L’s ﬁnancial health.

“We are certainly not in trouble,” McMillan
said. “We are a strong institution by any mea-
sure.”

W&L Dean of College and Vice President

for Academic Affairs John Elrod said W&L
might appear better than it is on the tax returns
relative to the other schools, because only W&L
of the schools in Peltz’ s study has a regular
graduate program.

“lt’s going to make us look a lot better off
than we are,” Elrod said. “Law school is going
to distort it badly.”

But in terms of net assets, W&L is not
leading the charge.

W&L Treasurer Larry Broomall said the
university might be lagging behind most of the
other schools in net assets because it started
systematic fund-raising efforts years later than
they did.

“This is purely conjecture, but generally
speaking, particularly schools in the northeast
have focused on fund raising for far longer than
most other institutions,” Broomall said. “There
is a concentration of selective, high—quality,

W&L
Amherst
Bowdoin

Davidson
Grinnell
Haverford
Oberlin
Swarthmore

Williams

 

V ......;”._....a_..

l l l i l l l
$0 $50 $100 $150 $200 $250 $300 $350 $400 $450
tee in millions

Fi

 

- 1990-91 means for every dollar W&L tod: in,

Lexington
Shop for
Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,

Clothing, and
Accessories

oppogoggo

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

       
     
     
       
 
    

 

Oomxies, Oomiies, Cvomaic-s! ‘8
During November, if you purchase $15.00 or more worth of comics, we will

give you 25% off purchase price. We have all name brands, such as Marvel,
D.C., Valient, etc. & Independents. Largest comic selection in area.

Ct1“n;r§%‘i9>@ gseteiam tlﬁrlv. W 7 :éﬁrr_li2‘;e.rt:'"i5

\'/// D0n’tLet

   

G0 Hungry

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket

Lunch, and Dinner

Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties

Fresh Salads & Soups

Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Dinners

Give Your Student a Homecooked
Meal With Our Point Card

7

19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

    

""‘* ’ is . .

é4JLi.@LlL17

S-uunday

1st movie regular price, 2nd for $1.50
Nintendo & Sega Genesis games only 99¢

7’,hi‘n2r CHECK OUT ROCKBUSTER MUSIC CHALLENGE! skﬁitr

'1

3 C Your Student 3 -*

Redeemable for Breakfast,

  

L.

‘I

     
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
    
    
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
   

0
The Fling-tum Phi, October 29, 1993

liberal—arts institutions in that area, institutions
which have been very successful overthe y rs
The compounding effects of gifts is incred-
ible.”

McMillan said Broomall is right.

“Some would say there’s an older tradition '
of philanthropy in the northeast,” McMillan
said, simply because the northeast is the oldest
part of the country. .

McMillan said fund raising at W&L has
been around since the Board of Trustees of
Liberty Hall Academy solicited George
Washington’s famous gift of1796. But it wasn’t
until the 1960’s that development efforts were
concentrated in a single, permanent university
ofﬁce. .

Broomall said W&L’s smaller bottom-qine
stings most when the school passes out finan-
cial aid to students.

“We’re seeing as we go into next year, we’re
having some difficulty in providing the level 0
financial—aid grants we want to provide,”
Broomall said. “We’ll still have a very solid
class of students, but there’s been a little itch-
ing up over the years that will sort of stabilize.”

Ordinarily, a school with more financial aid
to offer prospective students can attract better
students. Broomall said W&L keeps a com-
petitive edge by keeping tuition low.

McMillan said W&L’s smaller bottom line
can be deceiving.

“These comparisons can be really prob em-
atic because some schools have more compli-
cated programs,” McMillan said. “They may
have a lot of additional elements in their pro-
grams that don’t make a lot of difference to
individual QhIrlr"\tQ ”

For example, McMillan said a school might
operate a museum with a staff of curator!

“We run a pretty lean program  Big chunks
of those dollars [at other schools] could be
going to their museums, special programs out-
side their educational purpose,” McMillan said.
‘‘I doubt if there’s any school among those top
25 where a student can get a better education
than at Washington and Lee University.”I

W&L’s $181 million finish in 1991 was a
$10 million drop from the year before, on
paper. But that was due to a change in the IRS
instructions in how schools record deprecia-
tion, according to Broomall.

In fact, W&L’s nearly $15 million gain in

it still had 27 cents after expenses. That $15
million helps beef up the bottom line.

Only Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine
did substantially better in the same year, gain-
ing 35 cents per dollar of revenue. Grinnell
College in Iowa gained 29 cents per dollar in
1991-92. ..

Not every school fared so well.

The financial giant Amherst lost-$1.5 mil-
lion in investment trading. For every dollar in
1991 revenue, Amherst spent $1.02.

Oberlin College in~Ohio alsoalost -in invest-

bsee ASSETS, page 5 *

.\l I‘) N 'l‘

lN\'liS'l‘lN

IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS
EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF
THROUGH RETIREMENT to

Q I993 Yiarbmr Inrumnr: am? Annuity /l.r.raa'aIimr/Co/leg: Rtlirrmznl Equdier Fund.

\

hink about supporting yourself for
twenty-live, thirty years or longer
in retirement. It might be the greatest
ﬁnancial test you'll ever face. Fortunately,
you have one valuable asset in your
favor. Time.

Time to take advantage of tax-deferral.
Time for your money to grow.

But starting early is key. Consider this:
ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at
age thirty, you can accumulate $154,031*
by the time you reach age sixty-five.
Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside
$211 a month to reach the same goal.

E

Start plannirg your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

At TIAA-CREF, we not only under-
stand the value of starting early, we
can help make it possible—with flexible
retirement and tax-deferred annuity
plans, a diverse portfolio of investment
choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education
and research are already enrolled in
America's largest retirement system.
Find out how easy it is to join them. Call
today and learn how simple it is to put
yourself through retirement when you
have time and TIAA-CREF on your side.

In

/

\

7

‘Aavumilrg an 1'n.'trr.r! raft of 6. 517% trtdilti to TIA/‘l Rzfiremtnf /innuiliu. T/nlr rat: Lr urea} ma/z/y to .r/mw I/7: paultr am) (ffrt! ofvompuunﬁirry. Luwzr or big/yrr rater would
produce utry Jzffrrtnt run/IJ. CREF ttr!rfu‘aIt.r art Jirlri/ruled /7y TI/{A-CREF In()iviz9un/ um) ln.rI[!u(inna/ Srrvzrtw. '

O

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 29 1993

PAGE 5

W&L plans for future budget concerns

Amount spent per revenue dollar

 

C
Williams
Swnthnnore
I
Oberlin - In Cents
I-Iaverfond
Grlnxaell
. Davidson
‘ Bovvtioira
Amnherat
‘W&L
(I
I_
’ Williams '90 —— Law Firm
Swathmore ’90 —— Architectural Firm
Oberlin ’90 —— Engineering Consultant Firm
. Haverford ’91 —- Medical Doctor
Grinnell ’90 — Investment Management Firm  .  77
Davidson ’90 — investment Management Firm
. Bowdoin ’90 —Investment Management Firm
Amherst ’90 -— Investment Management Firm iii
W&L ’90 —— Bass Construction
. W&L ’89 — Bass Construction 22:2‘
I * I '
° 8 53
C O
C O
C O
G Q
2 2
G

I->ASSETS, from page 4

ments, almost $1.7 million. It scraped
by at year—end with a gain of less than
half a penny for every dollar of rev-
enuc.

Whether a school ends the year with
a gain or loss depends largely on how it
invests its money. For that reason, most
schools pay big bucks to investment
managers.

Amherst spent about $700,000 on
its number—one money handler and
more than $300,000 on its numbertwo.
Grinnell also paid investment manag-
ers more than $1 million.

W&L’s investment management
costs are not on its tax return, which
lists only the top ﬁve professional-
service bills, but Broomall said W&L
pays its top investment manager, one
of four, about $250,000.

The ﬁgure is not on the return be-
cause W&L’s construction expenses,
more than $9.5 million, nudged it out
of the top ﬁve.

The $8.8 million W&L paid to Bass
Construction covered much of Frater-
nity Renaissance, the addition to Lewis
Hall and the completion of the Lenfest
Center, Broomall said.

W&L also paid $315,000 to Lantz
Construction and $450,000 to VMDO
for architectural services.

Of the other schools, only
Swarthmore reported substantial spend-
ing on construction and architecture,
$2.8 million. Swarthmore Senior Ac-
countant Kedebe Teferi said that cov-
ered a campus renovation project and
went toward a $10 million performing
arts center.

W&L Coordinator of Capital Plan-
ning Frank Parsons said W&L has a
record of commitment to capital
projects.

“We’ve done a very respectable job
of meeting the outstanding needs of the
university and not putting off what
repairs and such that need to be done.”

Parsons, who said he had no back-
ground in architecture or engineering

prior to being asked to oversee capital
projects for W&L in 1967, lauds past
W&L President Robert Huntley and
current President John Wilson for their
dedication to capital projects.

“Both Huntley and Wilson are
hands—on presidents,” Parsons said.
“Both have been very concerned with
maintaining the beauty of this campus
and the facilities that support the edu-
cational function.”

Parsons said he does not know how
other schools handle spending, but he
said smart budgeting allows W&L to
spend money on capital projects de-
spite the school’s relatively small as-
sets.

“W&L has done very, very well in
managing its operating budget, bud-
geting on a basis that if you need the
entire budget, the money is there,” he
said. ‘‘I think it’s true that each year, we
finish in the black, and the surplus goes

bsee ASSESTS, page 6

  

 

0000002 9
00000017 Q
0000009 ~

0000009 ‘
0000002. 
0000008 ”

0000006 - ;

« ;

 

WOOLRICH

. Welcome Parents
AIUIH " E31111!/5 Still The Leading

 

SERO — Cotton Dress Shirts

Cross Creek Sweaters
Embassy Boxers

Long Sleve Sports Shirts
Woolnch Outerwear
Leather Watchbands
Shoes by Bass, Topsider, Clark’s, Walkover

Ray-Bans

Corduroy Pants
Cashmere Blend Topcoats

A11 Suits n d 5 0% 011‘

Red Wing Boots
Wool Slacks
Duckhead Khaki’s

W&L Belts, Dog Collars, Visors,

Ties, and Straw Hats

100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos

Formal Shirts

Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts

Xmas Stockings for Sale

OPEN THIS SUNDAY 10 am.

‘ Alain - Beatriz

Phone (703) 463-5383
Since 1963
STUDENT

CHARGE ACCOUNTS

MASTERCARD

  

 

Twice 9;

Capital plans signa1budget’s health

 

  

 

D From ASSETS page 5 W&Lspent $41 million in 1990-31,
$250:O00 T I l 1 Hligheslt sajary ’ two—thirds on construction. That’sa 13
_  Benefits to unrestricted plant funds, for capital percent increase over 1989-90 spend-
- Sat prog')ects.” ‘d th t h W&L ing, but anritricreaste coveretll by higher
" a arsons sai a w en expe- revenue. e ins ructiona spen ing
 —_'_ - ry rienced a surge in class size after co- amounts to about $13,700 per student
_ education, the university allocated the in 1990-91.
- extra income for more students to capi- Those ﬁgures are impossible to copi-
‘ tal improvements and maintenance. pare to other schools, at least using the _
$150900‘) '2 Generally, Parsons says, W&L’s tax returns, because every school re-
- capital spendingisasignoftheschool’s ports its spending differently. Each
* f"inancialhealth.“You wouldn’tunder- school computes its instructional ex-
_: take that [capital spending] if you were penses with its own formula. Some
$1oo’OOo - putting at serious include student
~ risk the essentials services such 5
" A ,5 of the educational housin and me i-
" :3 C‘ I T" 3 t ‘ ” h cal cargn 'nstruc
__  :3 55; fs en erprise, e l i -
$5O’00o - ‘ ‘f.   :~ said. tional costs be-
- N__ ,<_’  ,   <2: While W&L’s cause they are as- V
:       ‘V spending on con- sociated with. the
$0 __ struction outdis- school s mlSSl0ll.
tanced the other The IRS in not
:83 E _,.,:\-§ ‘:3 % E :32? g E schools’, W&L particular abtiit
0 ' '13 ‘E: ;__-3 finished near the making sure dif-
% g ' S ‘E g g E 75:.‘ middle of the pack ferent institutions
1 cs’ (3 ‘*3 -E 3 in annual conIribu- fill out their forms
:1: 3 tions. similarly.
('9 S u p p o rt e r s IRS representa-
25- gavethe university tives in Philadel-
‘ almost$14 million phia, Baltimcte
: in 1990-91. That and Washington,
Fi r S ‘ m'1]°° number was D.C., said they do
20- gu e In 1 1 ns topped by Wil- not know the pro-
' liams’ $21 million, cess by Wl’llCll the
: Bowdin’s$18mil- forms are re-
- lionandA'mherst’s viewed. A repre-
15 - $15 million. . sentative in Phi‘a-
- But annual gifts delphia said no one
: can fluctuate who reviews tax
wildly from year to year. W&L’s 1991 returns is allowed to talk to the public.
- - - 10- contribution totaled $5 million more AnotherlRSrepresentativeinPhila-
I pubhc conmbutlons - than in 1989-90, an increase of more delphia took note of an inquiry from
‘ than 50 percent. Forthatreason,school Peltz in May regarding the tax—return
: ‘ . ﬁnancial officers say annual giving is review process.
_ - - . not a reliable indicator of ﬁnancial She romised to rela the uestiT)n
P Y ‘I
- ~ health. to mana ement. The IRS had not re-
‘ - c 00 s cannot accurate y antici- spon e y cto er .
S h I I l d dgb O b 29
: pate how much money they will re- While the tax returns seem to indi-
0.u " " ceive in any given year, W&L Assis- cate W&L is in relatively good ﬁnan-
tant Treasures John Cuny said. cial health, McMillan hastens to add
83 8 8 8 S :5; 5 S 8 8 “There are gifts out there we don’t the university has other endowmen s
a .—o " ' even know about,” he said. “Someone that don’t show up on the returns.
I-J I-J (D C H -—u '8 G 0) U)
93 ,3 g... '3 0 do :: *-I E might’ve signed a will 25 years ago, “The most valuable endowment we
3 g 0 -E  5 cos *6 E "cg and when they pass away, we find out have is what Robert E, Lee gave us in .
‘E 0 —° 4: _=; about it.” the last years of his life,” McMillan
E 8 8 C5 3 O ‘B 3 Cuny said deferred gifts —-— money said, “That’s a spiritual endowment.
5: g allotted by contributors gradually but You can’t mend roofs with it, but you A
(I) transferred ina lump sum——accounted are fed by it.” .
I

Jfcwe cz Happy czntfstzfe weekend .

    

Lunch Specials

  

   

  
       
    
   
 

Dall Lunch S clals All $5.00
Monday - App e Smok Chicken with Sun-dried
Tomato Mayonnaise
Tuesday - Black Bean Vegetable Enchilada

    
 

Wednesday - Hickory Roasted Bnrbeque on Kniler Roll.

    
      

    
      
    
 

   

    
 

Cole Slaw

Thursday - Phyllo ﬁlled with Mushrooms. Spinach &
Feta Cheese

Friday - Crab Cake Sandwich on Roll

Saturday - Chicken Gumbo with Rice

Sunday - Fruit Omelettel. Chocolate Chip Pancakes.
Chef‘: Special

Dinner Specials

Monday - Monday Niﬁt Football Chicken hichilnda w/
Sella - $6.95
1 1/2Pounlhot‘ourhmous SmokedWi:nga-
$6.00

Tuesday - Sauteed Turkey Breast w/ Prosciutto. Mozzardla

    
 

and Tomato Sense served with Fettucini - 38.95
Wednesday - Pork Tenderloin Medallion: w/ Apples - $9.95

 
   
   
   
 
        
 

Thursday - Grilled Beef Tenderloin Ituﬁed w/ Mushrooms -
$11.96
Friday - Crab Cnkuwl Dijon Sauce - 89.95
Saturday - Mnrlnnted Grilled QIIII - $10.95
Sunday - shrimp with Miinhroouns - $10.95

    
 

Aﬂa1uessa'vedwnhdiobeofrk>eorpotato,ﬁed1vegetablesandhmisemhd

Friday, Oct. 29 “Leslie Tucker” 9:00 — Cloec, $2 covcr 
Saturday, Oct. 50 “Wild Graee” 9:00 — Close, $2 cover

¢%/tea4%r4l 27¢:/vedeﬂfﬂ Qay.’ 

_ ﬂ/me 7 Qaya ad Weeé 

5 *9?e¢eu«a/tom .;»1ow/trm/
e/Va/mle/t I6‘ 2%» bdl¢9Iul% .%m.y/on

   

 
       
    

     


454-3474

 

Celebrate Holidays, Send Exam Goodie
Bags, Play Secret Santa, Remember Friends,
Relatives & Business Associates with . . .

Fine Handmade Chocolate Confections
On Campus Delivery / Mail Order Anywhere

Call 1-800-421-6220 or 1-703-464-8400
MASTERCARD

VISA

The Hing-tum Phl, October 29,1993

 

  

Q

for some of the 1990-91 increase.

 

fcneonw

Now Showing
Rated PG-13
Daily 6:45 p.m.

Needful Things
Rated R

3

251-7292
2275 Beech Ave., Buem Vista — (Behind Pim Hut)

Man Without a Face
Sat. & Sun. 1:45 & 6:45 p.m.

Sat. & Sun. 4:15 & 9:15 p.m.
Showing Daily at 9:15 p.m.

lvertet al “

“All You Can Eat”

OF POPCORN

 

 
 

   

t
(l ((l

  
 
  

I
ll
‘iii
(«W
(W

      
 
 
 
 
  

I
7/(757 I‘
lllﬂﬂﬂﬂ
lltﬂl ll
I\(&l(|ll(((
«I («(1
..*.st§§‘.<,(,<

         

\\

?
{I

§l“k“‘
M’

    
  

Florist to The Hoincstcad

 
 
  

Q00

BO'I'I‘OMLESS BUCKET

-30 Minute Delivery l’
10 Minute Pick-Up

FRANK’S PIZZA _
463-7575

Hot & Cold Subs 0 Salads 0 Dinners O BeveraRg§s
PLEASE MENTION THIS AD WHEN CALLING IN AN 0 ER

 

  

    

Smashed!   
$3.9 ‘

1 Medium 14” CHEESE & ONE TOPPING PIZZA

$5.99

WITH  COUPON
(8 slices)

_2—Iv;:(-1_i1i—m_14_”_CIIEI3—S-E E; ONE TOPPING PIZZAS
$10.99

WITH THIS COUPON
(16 slices)

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 29 1993

NEWS

‘WI

 

 

 

   

   

 

 

, (79
J
\ \_~.

 

   

 

   

 

   

 

 

 

i.‘>:'.-"-‘-».l\‘\y‘.-LT’  §
‘I l..'!Hi1Iii\ 4;;//, S  A ‘

» J
,€._ " ‘$39.4/'— »---*r- .i.-,..

///A.

 

 

   

C this? If you’d
like to share your artistic

talents with W&L; Work for
the Phi, be one of our car-
toonists, take the plunge.

C’mon.

Also, if it’s not too much trouble,
we are looking for some good fea-
ture ideas; so all you people that
worked on your high school
paper, or even if you didn’t, be
creative for us. Please.
Call us with your ideas. 462-4060.

W&L stands apart
from the pack M

 

Parents,

By RICHARD Piauz
Special to the Phi

In September 1992, Richard Peltz
requested from the Internal Revenue
Service the latest available tax returns
for Washington and Lee and 10 schools
to which it compares itself in self-
studies.

The tax returns include information
such as how much an institution spends
in a year, how much money it take in,
the value of its assets, and the top
salaries of its ofﬁcers and employees.
The returns can be used to compare
Washington and bee’s financial health
to that of other schools.

By May 1993, the IRS had provided
1990-91 tax returns for six schools and
1991-92 tax returns for two schools
(inset).

The IRS says it is still searching for
tax returns from Middlebury College
in Vermont and Bates College in Maine.

Peltz chose the 10 schools from

among the 16 to which W&L com-
pared itself in studies for the last long-
range plan. Peltz dropped three Cali-
fornia schools from the list because
geographical disparities might make
the schools less comparable. Three
other schools were dropped arbitrarily.

W&L Dean of the College and Vice
President for Academic Affairs John
Elrod said the various members of the
faculty and administration who par-
ticipated in the long-range plan each
developed theirown lists of schools for
comparison.

None of the otherschools have sig-
niﬁcant graduate programs.

Elrod said the undergraduate pro-
grams at the eight colleges in the study,
all of which outranked W&L in the last
U.S. News and World Report survey of
liberal arts colleges, do offer a good
basis of comparison for W&L.

“We want to know where the com-
petition above us is,” Elrod said.

But he said that does not mean W&L
wants to emulate the other schools in

all respects.

“We want to be like ourselves,”
Elrod said.

“ But when it comes to plain finan-
cial ﬁrepower in delivering the educa-
tional goods, we want to be like them,”
he added '

Elrod cited curriculum —especially
in W&L’s business, engineering and
journalism programs — as one area in
which W&L is unique and does not
want to change.

“In most cases, the curriculum is
different” at W&L, Elrod said. “We are
much more pre-professionally tilted
than all those other schools.”

Peltzreviewedthevariouscolleges’
tax returns in consultation with Uni-
versity Treasurer Larry Broomall and
accounting student Elizabeth Currall,
’93.

Comparisons focused on bottom-
line net assets, spending on profes-
sional services such as construction,
overall expenses and revenue, and re-
ported salaries and beneﬁts.

To lrnaw everything that
goes on in Lexington (and
maybe a little more) ,
subscribe to
The Ring-tum Phi.

Il"5 0111)’ 25 UOIIEITS f0I' UTE

rest of the year.
Call us at (703) 462-4060

t0 5l.lD5CI'ibE.

  

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20 1993

Frosh -
grades in

I->GRADES, from page one o

been a significant increase in the qual-
ity of the grades,” he said.

Howison also remarked that before
co-education the average midterm GPA
for freshmen was as low as 2.2, but
since 1985, it has averaged appro i-
mately 2.6. Howison noted in compari-
son that the Class of ’96 had the
highest freshmen Fall term midterm
GPA in the history of the school, a 2.7,
with only 12 students falling below a
1.5. Still, the Class of‘97, according to
Howison has fallen in somewhere in
the average domain, as far as midteﬁn
GPA.

When questioned about the effects
of Rush and pledgeship on academic
perfonnance, Howison commented,
“Rush has an impact on time, conse-
quently on studying.”

Particularly this year, with the 6(-
tended Rush schedule and with 94% of
freshmen males participating in Rush,
the results are obvious in the near third
of a point difference in male and fe-
male GPAs. Ninety percent of those
rushees tore at one of the male greek
institutions on campus, thus addin o
the “time constraints” on studying.
Kappa Alpha was the only fraternity to
have no freshmen fall below the 2.0
mark.

Professor John Evans, who teaches
English 101 and English 105, com-
mented that his students “are v
bright” and “will do fine in the l g
run, much better than at midtenn.”
Professor Mark Rush said that his stu-
dents fared “just average.” A professor
from the Romance Language depart-
ment who identified himself as “one of
Bill Clinton’s half-brothers” said t at
freshmen midterm grades were, “fr e,
because I haven’t graded them, yet.”

Freshmen had little to say when
asked about their feelings on their ﬁrst
major academic effort at W&L. Ones
that varied included Trevor
Stockinger’s fatherly, “As long as you
stayed ahead of the academic game and
on top of your studies, you were ﬁne. i
know that sounds nerdy, but it’s true.”
A student who wished to remain anony-
mous said, “This school isn’t as hard as
I thought it would be.”

. . . Whatever the comments, the en-
I Photo by Bethany Smith, The Rmg-tum Phz emlconsensusofthose pduedwas h§Q_
Wh  a  O u  a  n g  7 ' . ful rather than negative. With Parents’

y ' . Weekend looming, those students who
need» a Vlittle reassurance will no _doubt
ireceiveit.‘ But those who need the most

   

One of Washington and Lee’s campus dogs stares down our photographeirron  A

Although on a leash, this critter is still apt to attract the attentions, of Animal Control Officer encouragement can seek out help from
R.D. Clark because his owner is not in physical control of the dog. Several students have Dean Manning and Dean Howlspn.
already been cited for violations of the city dog ordinance, including tickets for free-roaming Who are already Planning On rn°°"l8

with students who have fallen below
the 1.5 mark.

Tuition money: more than just classes

for libraries, etc. And a tiny portion —— public.

animals, unlicensed animals and other violations.

 
 
  

 

    

   

DTUITION, from page one less than one percent —- goes to Public As for tuition increasing, the Board V _ , ‘  — V V
Service. According to Steven of Trustees meets in February to ap- '  — V ._ t _, . V I V

instructions With 3dminiStr3tiVc 3313' McAllister of the Treasurer’s office, prove the level of tuition increase for     . i

Tics allcttcd through Othcr budget cat‘ these are “community services that the following year. Broomall said that V _. ‘ - ‘ ' ’

°g°l’icS; mainly institutional S“PP0rt, W&L does to open itself beyond the he attends Parents’ Weekend discus- ‘ . V V - ” r “ ‘ 0
Academic Support, and Student Ser- school to the whole Lexington and sion sessions to respond to parents’ ‘ f V Pﬁ_y_s:igaIP&;{z,g_t

Vi°95- El°V°n Percent °ft“iii°n Will 80 Rockbridge community,” such as con- questions about tuition. ‘ I

t0 Academic Sllppcrt, Which is mainly cert series and lectures open to the \

.  Vamrzgemnr
Tuition &Fees  _. ,S';gppor:.'»V ‘
Auxili rite rises Annual Fund . V 172%
,921,000 ‘‘ ‘  .
W I Endowment Income  - -
221 000 § Income from Trusts V .. .
$321,000 I Investment Income «Z 
$2,206,000 $24,414,000 Other V V .  :
Auxiliary Enterprises ‘ ' 9%
$2,332,000 5, S 3 E2 "
gig CDC ’
:0. Q
$2,610,000 “*7 ._ ».
C Academia-
Revenues for 1992-1993, Total Revenues $38,024. . ’ 2 (Lt ’ )
' 13%
O

%~:~o~.~o~""""'.~o~""o‘~'u"‘

\Wirliit«e to ltlhe lDlhii £53

Hanan Garden F°¢7'6"‘AY3
Chinese Restaurant

________l —k>\ne\.p smletue

I"
I1 0% Off: 9”-l“ °"""  
i with copy of I "3°°’“33‘988;i,,, V  BERKY’S Restaurant

I this ad ' Ag  ,,,,h,,,,,._._ at 1.3!: in Truck Stop

B11111 _ \.\l|<'.l€l(1\N

Specializing in C e t M 0 V. e A 2

Hanan Kr Szecnuan
, Cuisine ‘ Bang For
Take out or eattin! your BuCk_
Dpen Seven Days a Week! 11 a.m. until 10 p.m~. Advertise in the PM

R°°kbl'id9e Square For More information
(behind McDonald's) Call 454-4050

East Nelson Street 463-3330

in

   

  BREAKFAST
BUFFET .

    

 
 

  

Friday & Saturday Nights
1". p.m. to 4 a.m.
Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 4533473

 

 

-tum Phi October 29

-Parents’ Weekend tr

:0 ,  ,
my 
'~?\a»“%é<<95&”’. ’

’-5‘  . «
cc:
3”‘

\

Photo by Carlin Jones

Hikes around the Homestead resort in Hot Springs can yield beautiful sur-
prises.

’l'K‘}m\i. mun 55
u,,,«m, sures ~

_ Photo by Carlin Jones
A fifteen minute drive down Route 60 East will bring you to the beginning of

the Blue Ridge Parkway.

Photo  Richard Weaver
Goshen Pass has achieved legendary status with W&L students and alumni

Q

The Blue Ridge Parkway offers numerous scenic overlooks and picnic areas.

By HILLARY OLSON
Phi Staff Writer

At certain points in the year, namely Par-
ents’ Weekend, it is important to remind our-
selves of the pleasures in Rockbridge County
lying at our ﬁngertips.

Hopefully, the following list of
scenic, historic places will inspire
those looking for something to do
to visit a few of the more famous
sites in our area.

Starting with the least adventur-
ous endeavor, Woods Creek Park is
a natural path originating behind
the Leybum Library that follows
the creek from one end of town to
the other. The park passes behind
old, stately neighborhoods and the
elementary school. It is a quaint,
albeit short, retreat into the nature
within the town itself.

On East Washington Street, the
Stonewall Jackson House is open
for tours until 5 pm every day. The
house, built in 1801, was Jackson’s
home for ten years before the Civil
War while he was a natural phi-
losophy professor at Virgina Mili-
tary lnstitue.

The tour relates several interest-
ing stories about Jackson. In addi-
tion to infonning visitors the build-
ing was the only house ever owned
by Jackson, the 'tour guides give
insights into Jackson’s everyday
life.

Apparently, he lacked some lec-
turing skills during his tenure at
VMI. Whenever a student asked
any question, Jackson would repeat
a portion of his lecture which he had
memorized before class.

Just down Route 60 East is the
Buena Vista General Store. Estab-
lished in 1891, the store sells a wide
variety of downhome merchandise
including country hams, rug beat-
ers, tinware, overalls and long johns.
The General Store also features an
early farm equipment exhibit.

Outside of Lexington, the scenic Blue Ridge
Parkway connects the Shenandoah National

Woodrow Wilson’s birthplace

Weekend revelers to one of the Seven Natural
Wonders of the World. Natural Bridge is a giant
natural rock formation which was worshipped

Park in Virginiato the Great Smoky Mountains
National Park in North Carolina and Tennes-
see. The closest entrance to the parkway is
located off Route 60 East just 15 minutes from
Lexington. The parkway offers many scenic
overlooks and paths from which to view the
mountains in their autumnal splendor.
Driving 40 minutes on I-81 South and 5
minutes on Route 11 South will bring Parents’

1P 31.1143

Photo from Visitors’ Center

”pi.¢?o by Carlin Jones

by the Monacan Indians, surveyed by George
Washington——whose initials you can still see
carved into the rock—-and owned by Thomas
Jefferson. The tiny town of Natural Bridge also
contains a wax museum, hiking trails and un-
derground caverns.

Goshen Pass is a Washington and Lee tradi-
tion. The 3-mile mountain gorge is a half-
hour’s drive down Route 39 off Route 11 North.
Prior to the arrival of railroads in 1880,
Goshen Pass was the thoroughfare for
stagecoaches to reach the outside world.
The pass was also the trail used by elk
and buffalo as they crossed the moun-
tains in search of food.

Large rocks in the middle of the river
ﬂowing through Goshen Pass are favor-
ite sunning spots for W&L students dur-
ing spring tenn.

If walking tours are a favorite activ-
ity, Staunton, home of the Statler Broth-
ers, should be high on the must—see list.

The town is located 30 miles north of
Lexington on I-81. Staunton is most
notable for its unique architecture and
for being home to Woodrow Wilson’s
birthplace.

The Wilson townhouse, built in 1846,
is a National Historic Landmark and an
artifact museum. The house is open for
tours 9 am—5pm daily. Brochures for the
self-guided Staunton tour can be found
in the Lexington Visitors’ Center on
East Washington Street.

Thursday through Saturday from
10am-5pm, Rockbridge County’s first
modern winery is open for tours.

Visitors to Rockbridge Vineyard can
taste White Riesling, Chardoinay and
Tuscarora Red wine among others. The
grounds of the vineyard are also open
for picnics or self-guided tours.

Rockbridge Vineyard closes for
theseason on Nov. 1. It is located on
Route 606, one mile from exit 205 on I-
81.

The George C. Marshall Museum is
within the confines of VMI—within
walking distance of W&L. The museum
honors the World War II general and
Nobel Peace Prize recipient.

Highlights of the tour include an elec-
tric map and recorded narration.

Information on these and other area activi-
ties can be obtained at the Lexington Visitors’
Center on East Washington Street.

Natural Bridge is one of the Seven Natural Wonders of the World. You can still see where George Washington carved
his initials into the rock when he fi* “st surveyed the bridge.

The Ring-tqm Phi, October 29, 1993 ‘ “PAGE 10"

  
 
   

  

  To TAK
FOR

YOUR
XI‘ ALI.-

N0 Amvc/AL gig)
A fbooo (KENT Lwa,

Au»  
How,‘ wsnoxvwwt A((£fTAa/(L
THAT FOR AN £Y£-ofﬁuﬁxz

IF % von/‘T 601 :1,
GET IT.‘"

MEMBER NETWORK com! mwwoov TKUST(0P1MNY, MEMBER Fbl(

REDUCED PRICE
FRESH

GROUND

  

 

  

  

Harrlsfeeter
MEANS LOW PRICES

  
   
 
  

 

  
   
 
  

   

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October.29, 1993

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

Standings as of 10/26/93

  

Men’s Cross Country Women’s Soccer
Overall Records* Overall Records
Lynchbiirdg 11-0-0 Randolph-Macon 14-1-0
Eastern ennonite 6-2-0 Roanoke 9-6-1
wm den-Sydne Le §-3-g Washington and Lee 1%-68-1
as ington an e - - Lynchburg - -0
Roanoke 3-3-0 Va. Wesleyan 8-8-0
Brid ewater 3-9-0 R-M Women’s 6-8-0
Ran olph-Macon 1-11-0 Guilford 5-8-0
_ Hollins 3-11-0
Women’s Cross Country Sweet Briar 2-104
Overall Records* ’
Women’s Soccer
Roanoke 3-0-0 ODAC Standings
E d H 2-0-0
L;,I:$ﬁIb?:; emy 2_1_0 Randolph-Macon 8-0-0 ’
Eastern ennonite 4-3-0 Washington and Lee 6'1'1
Washington and Lee 1-1-0 7 Roanoke 6-1-1
Bridgewater 1-3-0 Va~ Wesleyan 5'3'0
' Lynchburg 4-4-0
Guilford 3-5-0
R-M Woman’s 2-6-0
Hollins 1-7-0
Football Sweet Briar 0-8-0

Overall Records

   
  
   
 
  
  

    

u.s.D.A. CHIE 

 G S; 1% 
BROIL.............._

LIMIT 2 PKGS.

 
 
 
  
 

    
  

mﬂ.

  
  
 

 
      

ROMA
TOMATOES

  
 
 
 

  

   

  

PEPSI COLA
2 mm

  

HARRISTEETER... Low piu DAY, EVERY DAY

   

‘SELECTED VARIETIES
DORITOS
CHIPS

‘I 2 9
9'  OZ.
O
I

VALUABLE COUPON
BUY ONE TO OZ. BAG

’ SALAD MIX
AND GET ONE FREE  

I This Cou n MaK‘Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coo Per Customer Per Visit
1 With A 10.00 inimurn Purchase. Otter Good Oct. , Thru Nov. 2, I993.

   
 

 
       

PLU 3065
PRODUCE

coupon
H8I'llS TBGTBI ‘gig

VALUABLE COUPON

   

l —_-an-——=n

   

AND GET ONE FREE

This Cou n Ma Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Cou Per Customer Per Visit
I With A 10.00 inimum Purchase. Otter Good Oct. , Thru Nov. 2, I993.

  

   
 
 

 

L____..___

1 BUY ONE 4 PK. 40, 60, 75, I00 WATT SOFT WHITE I I

GTE SYLVANIIL LIGHT BULBS | |

DIET PEPSI OR I

PEPSI

QUICK OR OLD FASHIONED

QUAKER

OATS ..................... ..l8 oz. 099

SELECTED VARIETIES

TROPICANA
TWISTER .................... ..46 O

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

SPRING WATER ..... ..5o.7 ozo
2/

SELECTED VARIETIES

TON Y'S

Z..

PIZZA .............. ..l5.3—17.5 oz.

VALUABLE COUPON

AND GET ONE

This Cou n Ma Not Be Reproduced. Limit One C
With A l0.00 inimum Purchase. Oiter Good Oct

%‘i",

GU

    

0

O
(J
‘O
(.0
rs)

 

 

BUY ONE 32 OZ. BOTTLE

TOK TIIIRST OUENCHER |

FREE

Per Customer Per Visit
Thru Nov. 2, I993.

I PLU 2610
GROCERY

'  :1 v  ::
COUPON
Hamsteeter V/igﬁ G-J

  

   

159
77

VALUABLE COUPON

inimum Purchase. Otter Good Oct.

« BUY ONE 24 CT. OF

GOODY'S TABLETS
AND GET ONE FREE

This Cou n Me Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
I With A 10.00 N\ 27

Thru Nov. 2, i993.

 
  

NFS GROCERY

HBIIISTGBTBI

   
 
 

Prices In This Ad Ettective Wednesday, October 27 Throug

    

    

PLU 2551 I

COUPON I I
VALUE
§2.69 I

E_____

I Prices Effective Throughd Noember 2,

, Léxlnslerz
. OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dyealers. We Gladiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

Hamsfeeter

November 2, 1993. In

PLU 2550
NFS GROCERY

COUPON
VALUE

$1.39

04

 

I 993

Stores

Emory and Henry 6-2-0 Voueybau
Ham(pden-S dney 5-2-0 Overall Records
Ran olph- acon 4-2-1 _
Brid ewater 2-5-0 Gullford 20-5
Gun ord 1-5-0 Bridgewater 21-6
Washington and Lee 0.5-0 Eastern Mennonite 17-11
Washington and Lee 13-11
R-M Women’s College 12-11
Football Lynchburg 1 1-1 1
ODAC Standings SW36‘ Bria‘ 8'11
Roanoke 5- 1 1
Randolph-Macon 2-0-0 Hollins 542
Emory and Henry 4-1-0 Em°1'Y and Hem)’ 5'18
Hampden-Sydney 3-1-0
Brid ewater 1-2-0 Volleyball
Gui} ord 0-3-0 ODAC Standings
- Washington and Lee 1-3-0 1 _
Guilford 8-0
Bridgewater 7-0
Eastern Mennonite 5-2
ODAC Offensive Player of the Week Washington and Lee 4-3
Dexter Hurt—RB—Rando1ph-Macon Evyvggfﬂgfrlgr 3:2
I Hollins 2-5
ODAC Defensive Player of the Week Emo and Henrcy 2-5
Robert Hull—DT—Washington and Lee R'M 0m°n’5 011983 2'6
- I Roanoke 1-6

   
        
    
    

I

Men’s Soccer
ODAC Standings

Roanoke

Randolph-Macon
Virginia Wesleyan
Eastern Mennonite
Hampden-Sydney
4 L nchburg
ashington and Lee

Guilford
Bridgewater

I’?

 

Men’s Soccer -
Overall Records wavi~l;[:§t1(i:cE:::.:lisI'ee

Va. Wesle an 14_2_1 (updated for 10/27/93)

Randolph‘ acon 16'3‘0 Women’s Tennis 3-0

Roanoke 15'3'0 Men’s Cross Country 3-2

H3-mPde“'SYd“°.Y 10'6'2 -Women’s Soccer  . 9- -1
"-'E3ST8fIl Mennonite»-~ » 11-8-0 ‘-“**f—’»~r*v3b11eyba1] 5_=§'~‘~°**> ;’.***‘14_11

Lynchburg ‘ 8‘ 0'1 ' Women’s Cross Country A‘ 1-1

Emory and Henr 3-6-0 water polo 8_11

Washington an Lee 5-11-0 Menvs Soccer 5_12

Br1_d ewater 3-11-0 Football ()_6

Gull ord 3-13-1

Overall 43-51-1

Women’siIntramurals—Football
Pi Beta Phi 21, Kappa Alpha Theta 9
Kappa Kappa Gamma over Freshman Women

Washington and Lee Bocci
Ring-tum Phi 18, Trident -1
International Club 16, MSA 11
Dorm Counselors 17, Resident Assitants 11
Southern Comfort 16, Jubilee 7

OOCOOOOOC

*Only dual and tri-meets are
included in cross country records

Sports moment 0’ the week...

 

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-‘mm Phi

Members of the Washington and Lee men's soccer team in deshabille shortly
before a home game were the photogenic athletes of the week for Oct. 29, 1993.

 

    

PAGE12

 

W  The Ring-tum Phi October 29,1993

Bound-& Gagged by Dana Summers
O“ the mark by Mark pans; Pluggers by Jeff MacNel1y ”"“”““-""-t‘ I

  
  

WHAT YOU SAY... NI-lAT7HEY HEAR

    
 
 

DWUWIH imbva nv
WI ‘lawns mom wwiu Costa

1 wow E25 IN
‘lbDAY...I'M N6!’
FEEUNG WELL 

%(

  

5/1u4—-.//42$ /0'”

Dave by David Miller

       
        
  
 

WARNlNa=u9E 0F T1416
’ /V\lNl—6PARE CAN Resum
lN 96:10:49 iNJui2Y ‘V0

THE MALE Eéio.

     

l MléiHT AS WELL §FlZAY PAiNT
"VORK" ON THE $195 OF

    

 

liltﬂditﬂﬂ tﬂ|O ilinlﬁl 0tUN'|lV
Q|993 rnpuru mam Somcu. inc 1 Pmwm. I ’
V‘ his I‘ V . “

“CA”-'AmNG:, A FEATURE WE COULD Yuve go’: a teenage plugger when neithe:

 

 

   

        
 

      
  
 

   
   
 

    
 
 
 
   

    
 

     

  
 

R541!-Y USE FROM THE PHONE COMPANY oneof you wants {:0 look like the other.
Colonnade Crossword I
ACROSS 1 O ‘
1 —- and rave   N OK HRROLV '\'\ME To (,0
5 Enjoys a book T\AERE'5 REVELF“-‘ON... _. ‘ ' 

10 Display  \.\oN\E M10 GET IX L\\=E
14 Love god "

15 Goad -.

16 Actress Miles 3 ' ‘ ‘

17 Partly: prefix

18 Bouquet

19 Turkish bigwig

20 Exact

22 Environmental

science W

24 Tangle

25 Tool set ""...=."

26 Up-to-date --'

29 Place mat's

place _

34 Burning

35 Snakelike fish I

36 Mimic

3, SW, How ow, lT5 A BABS3.

38 Gazette G\RL“,  

39 Londoner for

' ARE ANATOMlCALUe
short
40 Range of O
knowledge  

41 Woody stems 93 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 10/29/93  In

42 singly I Rights Reserved .

43 More fancy ,

45 Lawless one 9 Lunch counter's Last week 5 Puzzle solved

46 Corn unit cousin

47 water and 10 Slender

Murphy 11 Blood: pref. - _ ,

48 North Star 12 New: abbr. ‘ -' ~ ’
52 Like a dodger 13 Suspicious

56 Wicked 21 Concerning  

57 Din 23 Unctuous   
59 Norse god 26 Halloween items

60 P0l SOUVCS 27 Many times ﬁ ‘I1 ' f IV’: kw‘ V ,~;. II‘ _ V II "' V

61 Croc's cousin 28 Rigg or Ross J 50 THAT'S ‘Mi  ‘rm _ ‘"3’ ‘“ .‘‘'''£‘‘ ‘' .  __
62 Honey drink 29 Drunkard S H 0 E ‘N WHAT FIBER W A YUB THAT5 IT A. I THOUGHT IT K; « . '\
ea Lath 30 War god in, orrics I5? 0 IN A NIIFSHELL ‘\ -:  WA5 Asomeiz i _‘
64 Travel on blades 31 Mystical card illlll} ‘ NEW CEREAL.

65 Actor Mineo 32 Express a belief gt ‘ - ',.-I , .  - .

et al. 33 A Fonda ~ _ -/1./9 , ' ' /9', r
35 Horse's hair J I/,.
DOWN - 38 Couplings 1
1 Coarse file 39 Flowers __ 1-.
2 Part of A.M.A.: 41 Powerful ruler " _ 1 $
abbr. 42 Verdi opus . lg ‘ _ ‘ .
3 Place in Alaska 44 Fanatic ' V _ , I V. L‘ _ --*_’ “ , ' ;\
4 Deception 45 Honor ‘ ' /It  ’— , p \ A’  _
5 Think 47 Muddle with , ( 4;], pl '4 . V I
6 Heron drink 50 Money in Milan 54 Vessel for liquid « ‘u/,,j . ‘,-y -1.’; r V’ . 
7 In the past 48 Animal friends 51 Overcharge 55 Means justifier ' =: 7 v{ .’,\‘ l .  '  1 _‘ K-
8 Rounded roof 49 Racetrack 53 Notion 58 Give — whirl  2' ‘, ,_‘~ . _._  . . '2./iliiiis’

 
 
  

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-800-327-6013. 

Carryout Availab 1 S. Jefferson St.
Valley -

7/Ia?!/a&ce

HARDWARE srones ""

      

SANDWICH SHOP

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items |I&§AufN~cT0MEN°wl Xi.

Hoursuon-Fri9-5s;¢9.Noon sNvELoi=Es1uri=mo—ssoo-saoouvaryweok

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6p.m. Sun. 1-5 .m.  _ F"°°'ws‘sE'° “M 1;] J ” 1 F ‘d O t. 29
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-21186 %   as y an pa on n ay, C

 

TO  A Corbin Suits/Sport Coats  Ruff
' _ V  . I Hewn - Men’s 0 Marvel Comic
T  T Ties O Sero/Gitman Shirts 0
 » B.D. B ' ff
1  Parents  
‘L   Sewing Washington & Lee Since 1926 . JayS0nY0unger . Timberland
 \
i  , Thank You For Your Support .
O     g

  In appreciation - we are offerin

l

ALL SPORT COATS,

   g   Men,SW0OmCh BLAZERS AND SUITS '

- See l
Canvas Jackets 20 % Off Our Ladies Window 

A S1_1ia-s-h-Hit! ‘ A TS Great 1-3-arnilackets '

C

 The College Town Shop

I   Open Sunday — 10 to 3 111 West Nelson Street AMEX. - Master Charge - VISA

 

 

PAGE 13

 -The History of the Citibank
 _Classic Visa card and the Age of Credit

Card SeCurity. In the 67th year of the 20th Century A.D., Citibank introduced a credit

    

card aptly titled the Citibank Classic Visa® card. Established on the premise that a credit card should

offer——24 hours a day—warm, personal service, the Citibank Classic Visa card marked the end of the

Ice Age. And it ushered in a new era. 1] With the introduction of the first Photocard, the credit card
9

bearing one’s own photo and signature on the front, it soon became
evident that Man was entering the Post Paleolithic Period. First,

Man was no longer looking like a Neanderthal, as one often does on

 

more primitive cards such as the Student ID. He or she could now

T,,,,_ ,a,,,,,,_ (W, 3,, BC, W, ,,,._. ﬁn, choose his or her own photo. Second, by deterring other anthropoids

_kriown attempt to put one’s photo on a credit
card—but not without drawbacks. Photography
had not yet been invented. It weighed over 50

,,.,,,,,,,,, W ,, ,,,-,, ,,.,, ,,-, W, ,-,,,., ., ..,,,,.,_ from using the card, Man was helping to prevent fraud. Surely this
‘was a sign of advanced intelligence. 1] The subsequent rise of services was nothing less than an
American Revolution. So as you might expect, Citibank would be there for you, even if your card
was stolen, or perhaps lost. The Lost Wallets“ Service could have a new card in your hands
usually within 24 hours. (You can almost hear Paul Revere crying, “The card is coming! The

'99

.card is coming ) 1] When the Great Student Depression came along, Citibank introduced
New Deals—special student discounts and savings. Hence, today’s student can enjoy a $20
“Airfare Discount for domestic ﬂights‘ (ushering in the Jet Age); savings on mail order
purchases, sports equipment, magazines and music; a low variable interest rate of 15.40/02; and,
‘no annual fee. ‘ll Finally, comes the day you enter the Classical Age (i.e. when you charge
your purchases on the Citibank Classic card). You receive Citibank Price Protection to assure
‘you of the best prices. Just see the same item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and
Citibank will refund the difference up to $1503. You receive Buyers Security“, to cover
those purchases against accidental damage, ﬁre or theft, for 90 days from
the date of purchase? And Citibank Lifetime Warranty“, to extend the

expected service life of eligible products up to 12 years“. Together they

give you complete coverage; and with everything else. . .the Age of Credit

 

Z‘if2fZZ”é’vl§’§1-'}."5iZ2'i?Z,$ Card Security. 1] It’s credit history in the making. With the help of Citibank’s
with its Lost Wallet Service. he

1 would not have been cam-
‘ .pelled to hold on so obsessively to

the wallet ms.-.1.» his ,...~k.»,. services and savings, you earn some of the credentials needed later on to
purchase a car or even a house. ‘ll So call to apply. Students don’t need a job or a cosigner. Call,
‘also, if you’d like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic Visa card. The number
is 1-800-CITIBANK (1-800-248-.4226), extension 19. 1] If
- after reading this chapter describing the prosperous condi-
tions set forth by a Citibank Classic Visa card, one feels that

. he or she has left forever the Dark Ages and has entered upon

 

a new age, the Age of Enlightenment, then your time, as

_ they say, has come. Destiny is calling. And so should you.

Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.

‘Offer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by ISE Flights only. ‘The Annual Percentage Rate for
purchases is l5.4% as of8/93 and may vary quarterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advances is 19.8%. Ifa ﬁnance charge is imposed. the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional
ﬁnance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% ofthe amount of each cash advance transaction: however. it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $10.00. ‘Certain
conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International UK Limited. ‘Certain
restrictions and limitations apply. Underwritten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is at least the minimum based on retail industry
data. Details of coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. Monarch 5" Notes are published by Monarch Press. a division of Simon & Schuster. a Paramount
‘ Communications Company. Used by permission ofthe publisher. Citibank credit cards are issued by Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. ©1993 Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. Member FDIC.

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29,1993

Monarch Notes® Version:
With the Citibank Classic Visa card,
you can build a credit history before
you reach your middle ages. And,
receive special student discounts.
Call today 1-800-CITIBANK

(1-800-248-4226), extension 19.

PAGE 14

 

 

(J11: iﬁittg-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Follow the Dollar

Many of The Ring-tum Phi’s articles in the past have dealt with a
comparison between Washington and Lee and other schools like
W&L. Although most of us would agree W&L is a unique experi-
ence that cannot be duplicated at another college, much can be
gained by comparing W&L with other schools, just to see where we
stand.

Although it’s nice to finish first in the “Major fraternity and sorority
scene” category or ninth in the “happy student body” category in a
survey, sometimes that isn’t enough of a basis for comparison.
Perhaps this notion crossed Rick Peltz’s mind last Spring Term when
he started his Public Affairs Reporting class. He began getting
copies of W&L’s and other colleges tax forms (not an easy task).
From these forms, he was able to make comparisons of net assets,
revenues, expenditures and instructional expenses.

What Peltz found, in our opinion, is quite interesting. Granted,
comparing colleges based on social activity or general student
satisfaction is interesting, but how often do you hear how schools are
doing financially? You’re probably a bit curious about how W&L
compares to other schools in these categories. That’s why we ran the
article. Financial details of the inner workings of Washington and
Lee rarely get much attention because they are not made readily
available. We hope you read Peltz’s article. It may give you a
perspective on a rarely-publicized aspect of Washington and Lee.

Enjoy.

Welcome Parents

Well, you’ve made it.

For many of you this is a new experience. Your child is here on his
or her own and you are visiting them. That’s a bit of a switch from
what you’re probably used to, even if your child did go away to
boarding school. At least at boarding school there was that whole
Locus parenti concept. Here they are on their own.

With all these things in consideration this weekend could be trau-
matic. But it doesn’t have to be — really. As students who have
experienced the whole Parents Weekend gala before, we would like
to give some advice to everyone concerned with this weekend.

The first thing every parent should remember is we have just finished
mid-terms. We are caught somewhere between total mental exhaus-
tion, the urge to blow everything off and the far too recent remem-
brance of insane amounts of stress. Washington and Lee is not Easy
U, as you well know, but it is hard to believe there could be a more
demanding place to attend college.

The second thing parents should know is professors are not out to get
us. They don’t assign incredible amounts of work because they feel a
need to persecute us. We are supposed to be an intelligent group of
students and the professors just want us to use our gray matter. They
mean no harm.

Many of you will have the pleasure of meeting our esteemed profes-
sors. When meeting these professors remember they met your child
on adult terms and your child probably likes it that way. In other
words -try not to tell professors about the time little Johnny’s volcano
exploded all over the gym in the sixth grade science fair.

We don’t mean to sound condescending, but it has happened.
Academics are not the only possible trouble spot during the weekend.
Living conditions can cause some interesting conversations that can
turn ugly. If your child’s room is clean, great. Just don’t look under
the bed or in any closets. If the room isn’t clean, then take it in stride
and forget about it. It’s that high amounts of work and stress factor

a ain.

Tghe situtation works two ways, however. Sometimes we forget that
our parents are people too. It’s not like they were born the day
before they got married, or hatched out of an egg as full-grown
adults. Parents have actually lived full lives and, believe it or not,
they really do have a clue about where we are coming from. So try
not to cop too big of an attitude with them.

Anyway, the point is have fun and enjoy each other. There are a lot
of great things to do and its a good opportunity to catch-up on what’s
going on with each other. So, have a great weekend and be safe.

Quote of the Week

Television was invented about the same time I was.
-—Professor Richardson

And they call this the best thing that ever happened to
W&L—Hah.
———a professor who just ﬁnished grading a class of freshmen

papers.

@112 iatng-tum lﬂht

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Oberrnueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-mm Phi
is otherwise independent.

letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Columns, letters, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

  

DRINK 

OPINION

-\.

HALLOWEEN ‘s Hex:
AND THE lNc£N'rt\/E To

.,_\‘

 
 

‘I _.

SoMzi’iMES, Fog
us To THlN|<...

MAKES I1’ HARD,

The Ring-tum Phi, October 29, 1 993

So 8: CAZEFUL
THIS WEEKEND ,
I>or*'T HAVE Any

\\lREC.\»($.. .

AM» Awe EY£K*[THii~tt.-
Else. PtzAcra LE SAFE
S£x.l

Participation would help W&L ,

As Americans all across the country cast their The prevailing attitude is “who cares who my home-
town county legislator or village supervisor will
Washington _and Lee will, for the most part, only be...they won’taffectme.”Anothercommon off-year
election excuse for not voting is
“how can I vote for local candi-

ballot on Election Day next Tuesday, students at

remain on the sidelines.
While some students

will read this and realize
for the first time Elec-
tion Day is next Tues-
day, others will merely
growl “big deal!” For a
group of people consid-
ered to be among the

 

ANDREW
SCHNEIDER,
’94

educated elite of our so-
ciety, the apathy among
students at W&L is very unsettling.

For many students, the reason for not voting is that
the absentee ballot process is not worth the trouble.
Some students are turned off of voting absentee by the
costs. One W&L student felt the cost of the long
distance call to his local board of elections to request
an absentee ballot would be particularly burdensome.
Surprisingly, a few students don’t even have the
slightest idea how to obtain an absentee ballot and
seem more than willing to live in eternal ignorance. A
number of students find filling out a bureaucratic
application for an absentee ballot to be a serious chafe
and, as a result, have little patience for voting.

The fact that this is an off-year election is another
reason why many students will not be casting a ballot.

dates whom I know nothing
about?”

Off-year election apathy can
have serious consequences. Radi-
cal groups like Pat Robertson’s
Christian Coalition have started to
take advantage of this kind of voter
apathy to get their religious ex-

Instead of casting their ballot with a vengeance,
some of these students have acquired a feeling of
helplessness and ﬁgure their vote cannot change
anything. This attitude is self defeating. If students
voted their frustration instead of “staying home
election day,” so to speak, government and the leyel .

of political discourse might improve.

tremists
elected to ofﬁce. They real-

ize they cannot convince a
majority of Americans to
support theirradical agenda.
Therefore, Christian Coali-
tion-afﬁliated candidates do
best and get elected when a
majority of eligible voters
do not vote. When election
outcomes are determined by
6 percent of eligible voters
as in less publicized local
races, extremist candidates can win.

Some students have become disillusioned by gov-
ernment and the current level of political discourse.

with current
events by read-

If students voted their frus-
tration instead of “staying home
Election Day,” so to speak, gov-
ernment and the level of political
discourse might improve.

ing a newspaper
on a daily basis.
If more W&L
students were
less apathegic
and more en-
gaged in the po-
Iitical process,

ing.

you might find
that this campus
would be less

monolithically conservative.
On second thought, it’s probably wishful thiQk- -

Recycling efforts encourage waste

Several weeks ago I began thinking
about the environmental movement in
some detail and was struck by how
much we now take certain ideas for
granted. Believing unchallenged
thought is no thought at all, I looked
around campus at the various groups
that sponsor
r e c y c I i n g

In economic terms, this is the cost you
bear for recycling. If we were to be
particular, we could even quantify that

cost in dollar terms.
When you donate your products to
a recycler, society may beneﬁt; that
benefit might even, on a rare occasion,
be greater than
the effort you

 

programsand expended in
came to a gathering the
conclusion RYAN recyclable
that will vari- roducts in the
ously annoy, DENNARD9 first place.
shock or of- 994 This benefit
fend you. If comes in the
we look be- form of lower
yond the sur- prices for con-
face of the is- sumers, and it

sue, we will see participation in volun-
tary recycling programs is a bad eco-
nomic choice at best. At worst, it may
actually perpetuate a system in which
resources are wasted.

Before you Outing Club and APO
members holler too loudly, listen to
what I have to say, and consider it in
light of what we as a society seek to
accomplish by recycling. Reusing re-
sources is an effort to conserve those
things that we fear may be excessively
depleted. We are concerned that there
would be serious consequences if we
were to run short of particular raw
materials. Presumably we want to avoid
either the rationing or higher prices
that would accompany such a short-
age. So, we encourage voluntary recy-
cling programs we think will at least
delay such shortages. The short-run
beneﬁt of recycling is lower prices,
since our raw materials are more plen-
tiful.

Let’s consider the economic events
that occur when you decide to recycle
on a voluntary basis. You spend your
time and energy to collect the recy-
clable material and take it to the de-
pository. It may not take much time,
but it still requires effort of some kind.

too can be expressed in dollar terms.
You have helped society, but was it a
rational choice?

You have incurred a cost for your
efforts, but what have you gained?
Certainly, you have the beneﬁt of lower
prices, but so does everyone else in
America. With roughly 250 million
people in this country, you will reap
about 1/250,000,000th of the reward
for your efforts. But you bear the full
cost. You have just made a very bad
choice.

Most of you will object: voluntary
recycling will work if we will all just
do it. The problem is many people
don’t. For instance, my roommate,
Michael, in his disdain for environ-
mentalists’ world views, refuses to re-
cycle at all. No amount of persuasion
will convince him to recycle and this
leaves me with a dilemma. If I choose
to bear the cost of recycling, Michael
and those like him will share in the
beneﬁts, and my reward will be less
than my cost. Because I recognize this,
I, and many like me, do not recycle.
We make the rational choice to leech
off the efforts of most of you. And why
shouldn’t I? You are foolish enough to
help me out, even though you know I

will not participate. I gain the beneﬁts
of voluntary recycling efforts whether
I participate or not, so I choose not to
bear the individual cost. Though some
of you may not like it, I am making a
good economic choice.

Most of you will decide that I am an
aberration and will choose to go about
your business just as you did before.
After all, what kind of nut actually
thinks recycling is bad? But, before
you go, let me point out, though I may
be a parasite on the efforts of society, it
is you and your ideas that allow me to
exist.

Like all goods, recyclable resources
are subject to basic market forces. As
they become more scarce, prices are
bid up. As prices rise, people will
choose to consume less. In this way the
free market provides its own incen-
tives to con-
serve. The

carelessly and wastefully, enjoying the
low prices that you recycling fanatics
have so kindly provided for us. With
lower prices, we consume more; we
are reaping the rewards that you, as
recyclers have sown. Yourefforts, ou
see, have given us the power to waste at
your expense.

The alternative? Though you love
our environment, you might collec-
tively recognize that Michael, myself,
and those like us are playing you for
fools. You could take a broader view
of the dynamics of the situation Ind
decide to quit recycling altogether. The
result? Prices would eventually rise,
and I would be made accountable,
through my pocketbook, for my waste-
ful ways. Moreover, with higher prices
it would actually pay to recycle. Recy-
cling companies would begin to thy

you for your re-
cyclable products

timber indus- I :‘“‘?‘:—‘j_ (as many do for
try provides a gain the beneﬁts Of aluminum now),
§.‘i.‘}.‘le. ii‘; V°‘““‘3'Y “Cycling 3?3i§.TIi?§"d§2I
lumber has efforts whether I Par‘ ceivethebeneits

b e c 0 m e
scarcer, the
price of wood
has risen. The
result? Many

ticipate or not, so I
choose not to bear the
individual cost. Though
some of you may not

of your efforts.
No longer would
I be able to leech
off of you poor,
public-spirited

people now , _ _ creatures.

buy furniture llke It, I am Itlaklng_ 3 Of course! I
made of good economic ch0lce_ realize my advice
pressed wood will fall on deaf
and other sub- ears, but at least I

stitute materi-
als. We now use true wood products
much more selectively. Ten years ago,
I may have bought wood furniture for
my donn room. Today I would not.
Because I bear the cost of my decisions
directly, I am careful not to waste.
But what happens when some mem-
bers of society choose to recycle? As
stated, they prevent shortages and the
attendant price increases. In the mean-
time, Michael and I continue to live

have eased my
conscience by telling you the Truth.
Most all of you will continue in your
noble efforts, but at least now u
know what you are doing. As for me,
I won’t complain. In fact, as I heave

All of the obstacles W&L students face or per- .
ceive to voting are surrnountable if they care enough
about carrying out their civic duty. As members of
the educated elite, W&L students should not only
care but be actively engaged in the whole demo-
cratic process. They should ﬁnd time to keepgip

I

my used aluminum cans and newspa- ,
pers into the dumpster outside, I’ll be ’

sure to give you a word of thanks.
After all, I can afford to buy more.

Maybe there is such a thing‘ as a fgee .

lunch.

 

e Fling-tum Phi, October 29, 1993

.0

PAGE 15

ax away this Parents’ Weekend

DREAM LAND
I Richard Weaver

Welcome to Parents’ Weekend! In
ht of this popular annual event, I
ve ecided to issue you, The Read-
- , a travel advisory for making the
propriate choice for family-oriented
tertainment. Naturally, the ﬁrst rec-
mendation to spring to mind was...
ell, before I tell you, let me give you
e scenario. It went like this:
I was sitting in the Phi ofﬁce eating
a meQ>f the Chinese food that has been
the Phi refrigerator since Home-
0 ming (by this time the food has grown
s own pair of chopsticks), when it
ddenly struck me: I’m running out of
ean clothes. I was then struck by the
x ought of “Who’s going to wash these
othas?” Then I was struck again by
3 a king at the calendar: Parents’ Week-
d is this weekend; Mom’s coming
to town!
I ﬁgured, after laundry, my mother
ould probably like to see a little of the
etroLex area. Now, since I rarely
nttge outside of my house, the Phi
fﬁce, Reid Hall, the inﬁrrnary, and
e-Hi truck stop, my list of sugges-
ons for things to do was a little lack-

. g.
Phi Art Director Phil Carrott was in
e room when I “took charge” and
r adgthe tough choices” and decided
u proceed with a plan to determine the
ltimate destination for Parents’ Week-

end:

Richard: Phil, it is time for a Phi
all-expense-paid trip to the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum to investigate the
newsworthy effects of wax ﬁgures of
famous people on Washington and Lee
students (us) and their parents. Are you
up for it?

Phil:My three mid-tenns can wait.

Richard: Let’s go.

Phil and I arrived at the museum by
goingon Route 11 overthe actual Natu-
ral Bridge. I as-
sume the NB
people must have
known we were
coming fora visit
because the mu-
seum was empty
except for us. I’m
guessing they did
not want the usual
mobs of excited
tourists to bias
our journalistic

Weekend.

I “took charge” and
“made the tough
choices” and decided to
proceed with a plan to
determine the ultimate
destination for Parents’

1 determined the lion operated on the
motion-detector method of scaring
people. I assume that this is how moun-
tain lions in the wild stalk their prey.
The next stop was actually a dark
hall with a plaque on the wall. This
plaque described the life of Archibald
(Bar) Tolley, who killed 385 bears in
this area and “was known for his hon-
est, if salty, tongue.” After reading the
plaque, we walked away and another
motion-detector kicked into effect and
we saw a man
wrestling with
what appeared to
be either 1) a re-
ally angry bear 2)
a woolly mam-
moth 3) Tom
Hespos. In case
you were wonder-
ing, “Bar” died at
age 91 after step-
ping on a nail.
Further along

evaluation, so

they kicked ev-

eryone else out.

We bought our tickets, passed through
the tumstile and entered at the point
where all museums should begin: the
temptation of Adam and Eve.

We then came to a group of Indians
who were gathered around a ﬂickering
red light bulb trying to stay warm.
Following the Indians we walked
around a comer only to be alarmed by
the vicious roar of a fearsome wax
mountain lion above us. After close
examination and several tests, Phil and

the way we en-

tered the “Hall of

Presidents,” a re-
alistic portrayal of several dozen presi-
dents shaking hands with each other,
never mind the fact that none of the
“shakers” were alive whenever the
“shakees” were. Along a porch of the
more modern presidents there is a va-
cant “hook” next to Ronald Reagan.
Looking at the brochure we were able
to determine this was the former rest-
ing place of the wax George Bush. If
there are any College Republicans out
there, this might be a good place for a

tasteful memorial plaque.

The last stop in the museum was a
pair of doors with the gold letters, “The
Last Supper,” above them. Beside the
doors were two mounted trafﬁc-lights
indicating for us to wait for the “green
light” to enter. When we got the “go-
ahead” we went inside. The show be-
gan with a burst of music from a stereo
and the illumination of a wax Leonardo
Da Vinci. The statue didn’t say any-
thing; it just sat there. The spotlight
then faded and another one shined on
the thirteen wax ﬁgures of “The Last
Supper,” and then a voice boomed out
the sins of those sitting around Christ.

Suddenly, the spotlights went out
and then a wind machine started up in
the theatre. There was wind blowing,
and then there were lightning ﬂashes,
and then we saw a wax ﬁgure of Christ
alone. The wind machine went faster
and then a “wooshing” sound kicked in
and there was a “rumbling” sound and
then suddenly, it all stopped, and the
show was over. “Tacky” would be an
appropriate word to describe this show.

We exited into a gift shop where
Phil purchased a refrigerator magnet
that said “Kansas — A State of Excite-
ment,” and we watched several women
eyeing the last copy in the store of the
“Natural Bridge Cookbook.”

We returned soon afterto Phi World
Headquarters here in Lexington, and
after careful evaluation, I would like to
ofﬁcially recommend visiting the Natu-
ral Bridge Wax Museum with your
parents. lt’s an experience you won’t
soon forget. Send me a postcard.

LETTERS

I lecommunications ofﬁce gives phone, cable hints

o the editor:
I am writing to give several hints to users of the
niversity telephone system and the university cable
ystehi.
We ask that you please put your name on your
oice mail box. It helps in returning messages. Also,
lease change your password occasionally.
When calling extension 4002 for your current
alance, please call either early in the morning or late
' the evening. There is only one line now, so it is often
usyQluring the day. Please try to avoid using it as
2 uch as possible.Please make sure we have your

orrect billing address. This will prevent disruption to

Reader recalls
Southern leaders

To the editor:
It is time since 1865 to be fair to the South.
‘All the great presidents except those of the
Roosevelt family were Southern: Washington,
Jefferson, Monroe, Jackson, Houston, Polk,
Lincoln, Davis, and Wilson.

In all the wars the nation has had the leading
general was Southern: Washington in the Revo-
lution, Jackson in the War of 1812, Winﬁeld

‘ Scptt and Zachary Taylor in the Mexican War,
Lee in the Civil War, Pershing in World War I,
Eisenhower and MacArthur in World War II,
Ridgeway in Korea, and in Vietnam,
Westmoreland.

Yours truly,

Dr Edwin Pleasants

209 - 7th St., NW
Albuquerque, New Mexico

P.S. We would appreciate pen-pals. If you
would write to the address, I’ll answer.

I‘

your long distance should the balance not be paid. To
reach a Centel operator, dial 900. To reach a MCI
operator dial 90.

Please don’t unplug the telephones. We are con-
ducting tests to determine if all the phones are work-
ing so that we can return bad phones to the manufac-
turer under warranty. If the phone ring bothers you,
pick the phone up and turn the volume lever down.

Also, please don’t unplugthe data modules. Please
plug them in the phone and plug in the phone. This
allows us to get an accurate test of all of the new
equipment.

Anyone who signedwup for premium channels‘

V.

should be receiving them now. If not, please come
by the office. There may still be some blackouts but
that will end on Monday.

lastly, for anyone who is making harrassing
phone calls or sending harrassing messages, we
have the capability to trace the call and we will turn
in any inappropriate behavior to the Student Con-
duct Committee. If you have any questions on any
aspect of the phone or cable system, please call me
at extension 4000.

_.,1)_¢n.a.9amper- _
2- v  g 

Hz:  . I ’

White Book Cornmittee requests

cooperation from students

To the Washington and Lee Community:

The White Book Review Committee wishes to
relate to the student body the purpose and the imme-
diate plans of the committee. The purpose of the
committee is stated in the White Book:

“The Review Committee shall ascertain the opin-
ions of those in the Washington and Lee community
regarding all aspects of the Honor System. The Re-
view Committee shall report periodically to the EC.
By March 1, the Review Committee shall submit to
the EC a comprehensive report on the state of the
Honor System as well as proposals for any changes to
the White Book the Review Committee deems appro-
priate.”

During registration week, the committee will be
conducting a survey in the registration line to gain
student opinion on issues concerning the Honor Sys-
tem. The survey will be anonymous and the student
body is strongly encouraged to show openness and
candor in responding. The results from the survey will
be made known to the community.

The success of the Review Committee will depend
greatly upon input from students, so please contact

Interviews and Photos

By Joe Framptom

any member of the committee about suggestions or
matters of concern.

Thank you,

Ames Hutton, ’94, Chairman
Caroline Guerin, ’94

Adam Branson, ’97

Harris Morrison, ’96

Nathan Dunn,’94

Cameron Howell, ’94

John Richert, ’94

Ashley Rowe, ’95L

Michael Stakes, ’94L

Letters

Letters to the editor and “My Views” are
due on Tuesdays. All letters will be printed in
the order in which they are received.

Found

Found: A small book belong-
ing to Caroline, My Utmost for His
Highest, by Oswald Chambers, at
the corner of Lee and Nelson
Streets. Call David at 463-4353.

Careers

There will be a Minority Ca-
reers Day at the University of Vir-
ginia on Tuesday, November 2nd.
All those wishing to attend please
pick up a registration form and
sign up for transportation in the
CDPO by Monday, November 1st.

Haunted House

Lambda Chi Alpha and the Lex-
ington Police Department are 00-
sponsoring a Haunted House at 225
East Nelson Steet. The house will
be open from 7:00 p.m. until 9:00
pm. Admission is 75¢ and goes to
the United Way.

Kafka

The Film Society will present
Kaﬂca on Friday and Saturday, Oct.
29-30 in the Troubadour Theater.

Showings will be a 8:00 pm. and
there is no charge for admission.

Speech

Ron Chemow, author of The
House of Morgan and ‘The
Warburgs, will speak at Northen
Auditorium on Thursday, Nov. 4,
at 8:00 p.m. A reception and book
signing will follow his talk.

Recital

The Boston-based Solati Trio
will give a performance on Tues-
day, Nov.‘ 2 at 8:00 pm. in the

University-RockbridgeSymphony
Orchestra for a concert on Satur-
day, Nov. 6, at 8:00 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center.

Aphy at Colorado State University.

Lenfest-Centeri. They wvi‘l.l ioinithe --

Speech

“Challenges in Environmental
Ethics” will be the topic of a
Howerton Lecture on Monday, Nov.
1, by Holmes Rolston lll, University
Distinguished Professor of Philoso-

The lecture will be given at 8:00
p.m. in Northen Auditorium

Concert

The University Wind Ensemble
will present its fall concert on Satur-
day, Oct. 30, at 8:00 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center. The concert is free.

Basketball

The basketball team is looking
for managers. If interested, please
call Coach Bill Raleigh at 462-8691.

Phi

If you are interested in writing for
the Phi, come to the weekly
storyboard meeting on Tuesdays at
7 :00 p.m.

Play

The Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College Department of Theatre will
present Dancing at Lughnasa in the
Thoresen Theatre in the Leggett
Building on November 1 at 8:00
p.m. Admissions is free.

Speech

Dr. Alastair Small, professor of
classics at the University of Alberta,
will present a lecture, Excavations at
Gravina and the Roman Conquest of

South Italy,”onTuesday, November

2 at'4:30‘p.m. Theleeture will take

‘place invroom 315 in the Martin Sci-

ence Building at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

Cancer Society thanks
student volunteers

To the editor:

On behalf of the Rockbridge Com-
munity Unit of the American Cancer
Society, I want to thank over 100 Wash-
ington and Lee students for their assis-
tance and participation in the ﬁfth an-
nual “Making Strides Against Cancer”
event which took place last Sunday.

Thanks to pledges of SAE, Chi Psi,
APO, women’s track and many fresh-
men for participating on a dreary Sun-
day afternoon. Over $1,500 was col-
lected to assist us in providing service
and rehabilitation for local cancer sur-
vivors. Eric Shirley, a dorm counselor,
won the grand prize (gift certiﬁcate to

Night Owl) for collecting over $100 in
pledges prior to the event.

In particular, the following were a
tremendous help in planning, organiz-
ing, publicizing and carrying out the
event: Lucy Cavett, Madeline White,
Carrie Southgate, Sarah Brombacher
(all members of Chi Omega) and Eliza-
beth Dettmar (of Alpha Phi Omega).

On behalf of all those in our com-
munity ﬁghting for their lives, a huge
“THANK YOU!”

Sincerely yours,
W.C. “Burr” Datz
Rockbridge Community CancerBoard

TALKBACK

How are you planning to entertain your
parents this Weekend?

Melissa Desai, ‘94, Houston,Tex. —
“Call them and tell them I wish they
were here.”

Julian Montague, ‘96, Wilton, Conn.
— “Get them drunk and get a sober
pledge to drive them home.”

Molly Apter, ‘94, Pittsburgh, Pa., and Heidi Traulsen, ‘94, New York City Timothy Carr, ‘94, New York City

— “Lots of shopping.”

— “Get them drunk and ask them for
money.”

Richard Weaver, ‘96, Vero Beach,
Fla. —“Take them to the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum.”

  

PAGE 16

Images of the Maasi: Susan
Lexington

  to celebrat
 with Africa

r

Photo by David Wilmington

By David lllilmington

Phi Features Editor

 

If you happen to see a woman
walking down Nelson Street cany-

ing African spears and clubs, don’t

worry - she’s not planning to use
them.

' y . Starting Saturday, Nov. 6, Lex-

ington merchant Susan Harb will
begin a show featuring the clothing,
jewelry, weapons and religious ma-
terials of tribes of Western Africa.

Her loft at 7 West Nelson Street
will be transformed into a gallery
ﬁlled with items collected during
her 3-week trip to Kenya last month.

Much of the collection will be
available for sale.

Though she has been settled in
Lexington for years, Harb is no
stranger to foreign countries and
cultures.

“I’ve been to Belize, Guatemala,
Portugal and Mexico. I spent six
weeks in Thailand and Indonesia
and backpacked up into the Golden
Triangle,” she said.

Her travels have given her a
strong appreciation for the variety
found in the attitudes and art of
different countries. Harb believes
differencesbetweenculturesshould
be emphasized, not erased.

“I think we need to share the
differences and celebrate them and

understand them and love them and

embrace them and maybe help pre-
serve them. That’s why I’m drawn
to Third World countries ’cause I

  
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   

see us becoming so homogenc

The show is one way Hart
make people aware of the vast ’
of experiences available from o.
tures.

“I feel like the world ismhrii
much...why do we want everyo
the same? This [show] is my li
man marching band effort to bri
some differences and maybe I
appreciation of those differenc
Harb. .
The majority of the materia
play comes from the Maasi, a
Western Africa whose cultui
different from America’s as o '
imagine.

The Maasi are a group of r
tribes who live on a go em;
protected stretch of land cal
Maasi Mara.

The Mara stretches 320 squa
from central Kenya southwz
Tanzania and the Serengeti P12

They are famous amtﬁig o=
tive Africans and students of _
culture for their fierce adher
tribal custom and tradition. Th
have only recently begun ada
pects of Western life.

“They still have the warrii
and the circumcision ceremonit
Harb.‘

The Maasi still lead noma
centered around the grazing l
their cattle - the most prized el ‘
their culture. ‘

Cattle hold this high plac<
culture because the tribe belie‘
God gave all the cattle in the '
the Maasi after the separation o’
and earth.

Cattle serve as the measu
person’s wealth as well asfhe
payment for any wrongdoing-

Photo courtesy of Susan Harb

 

LIFE

_PAGE 17

i'b brings Africa to Lexington
. inesswoman
ifferences

‘.

arriors would rather be killed by a
ion than lose a sheep or a goat or a
w,” Harb said.

Jewelry is another very important
spect in the lives of the Maasi. They
~verIrade their beloved cattle for beads.

Harb explained the tribe members
lways dress just as you see them in
ictures. The men wear a full outﬁt of
ewelry even when tending their cattle.

The Maasi hold soil sacred because
t su lies grass for the cattle to graze.

T eir respect is so great the dead are

ot buried to avoid the disturbance.
he Maasi also refuse to dig wells or
row crops.

Their beliefs necessitate a very lim-

ed choice of food. The Maasi live off

die? of meat and a liquid mixture

ade from milk and fermented cattle
lood.

Though this may seem unhealthy
ompared to western dietary conven-

ons, the physique of the Maasi is
idegl celebrated as remarkably strong
nd picturesque.

The general sense of their personal-

y seems ﬁtting fora very traditionalist

ulture. “They’re real arrogant and in-
ependent and just beautiful,” said
art»

One of the traditions Harb remem-
ers as distinctly exotic and beautiful is

e Maasi warriors dance.
“It’s a standing jump and they try
nd make it appear effortless. They do
for ours.”

The adherence to strict cultural
uidelines creates some interesting situ-
ions.

Even though the male and female
'rcumcision rituals are two of the most

portant events in their lives, the Maasi
ringnpeople from other tribes to ex-
ute the actual circumcision.

_rt display

“The Maasi only make war tools,”
said Harb, “lt’s demeaning for them to
use any other tool.”

Even though they are one of the last
traditionalist tribes, the Maasi are con-
stantly feeling pressure to change their
lives to match the westemization of
Africa.

“As one [Maasi] said, ‘Every cir-
cumcision ceremony may be the last.’
The government has tried to erase some
of the tribal distinctions. They want it
to be one Africa,” said Harb.

The government has also outlawed
the killing of lions and other wildlife—
activities which the Maasi have always
done as part of tradition.

Industry is also making it necessary
for the Maasi to change their way of
life. “There’s some large wheat grow-
ing projects so their nomadic existence
is harder,” Harb said.

She sees a serious dilemma regard-
ing the adoption of western ideas.

“You worry what’s gonna happen
and how independent you can be,” she
said. “What part of Western culture do
we want to share ? Certainly medicine
and health care and schools, but where’s
the balance? When do these things cease
to be?”

Harb’s display will be in Lexington
will be open to the public until Nov. 8
after which it will be shown in Norfolk
from Nov. 10 to the first week in Janu-
ary and Virginia Beach starting Janu-
ary 15.

The idea to display in Lexington
didn’t occur to Harb at first because of
the greiit’ervaLidieric'e'iintl ‘market in the
two larger‘ towns. "After" she returned
from‘ Africa, however, Harb decided to
open the show here.

“Lexington is where I live and what
I care about,” said Harb.

Phto cortesy of Susan Harb

r A 1.!

Photo courtesy of Susan Harb

Photo courtesy of Susan llarb . I H  E J I i V I i i   J  E i  D3Vid Wilmington

    

PAGE 18

of the Month for October.

ur IM HAVING
A C7REAT TIME!

 
     

_
Hull chosen as October Major General“

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fling-tum Phi

Sophomore Robert Hull, number 75, struts his stuff during the Homecoming football game. Hull, a
starting defensive tackle for Washington and Lee, was chosen as the WLUR-Ring-tum Phi Athlete

 

  

Groups & Clubs

1-800-950-1039

Raise up to $500 - $1500 in less
than a week. Plus Win a trip to
MTV Spring Break ‘94 and get
a FREE T-shirt just for calling.

20% Off

  
   
   
    
 

  
     

 

   

    

The

 
   
   
     
      

All In Stock
Basketball Shoes L, (m Point of V1eW,
with Coupon Restcmrant
at

NexttoDayslnn,l'tt.60Wut

 

  

The Fling-tum Phi, October 29, 1993

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Despite the record-after-record setting performances of
Josephine Schaeffer (who is now known simply as
“.losephine”) and the court-dominance of Marilyn Baker,
there was one General who this month so far surpassed
expectations and dominated his specialty to earn the WLUR-
Ring-tum Phi “Major General of the Month” award—the
football team’s Robert Hull.

Hull becomes the second recipient of the honor, follow-
ing the women’s soccer team’s Corinda Hankins in Sep-
tember.

A member of Lexington High School’s ﬁnal senior
class, Hull has so thoroughly dominated play this month
that he has put himself on course to shatter virtually all of
the numbers put up by last year’s W&L defensive leaders.

Here are what the numbers say through six games: 83
tackles, 36 unassisted tackles, eight sacks, six tackles for
losses, ﬁve fumble recoveries, and four forced fumbles. All
of those ﬁgures are tops on the team and all are well ahead
of the pace of—if not already better than—the 1992 team
leaders. In fact, Hull’s eight sacks are just two short the
school single-season record, 14 away from the career mark.
And he’s just a sophomore.

But the Generals are not the only ones noticing. Follow-
ing his 16 tackles, one sack, and one fumble recovery last
Saturday against Sewanee, Hull was named the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Defensive Player of the Week.

That capped off a month (that still has a game to go) in which
Hull could have received that award for any of four perfor-
mances.

The Octoberfest-on-offenses began with a 16-tackl,
four—sack game at Randolph-Macon College. Hull followed
that with what some believe was his most dominant game-
two sacks and a season-high 19 tackles at Homecoming
versus Davidson. WLUR sportscasters Moke Wolfe and
Tim Veale understandably lost track of how many times they
had called his name that day.

“Hull has been their big-play man all year,” said Wolﬁ.
“He’s in there on every play. He really makes big things
happen on defense.”

Hull encored that game with 13 tackles and two fumble
recoveries at Hampden—Sydney. Compared with these games,
the performance at Sewanee might actually be considered
his quietest game of the month.

“The biggest thing about Hull is, no matterwhere the plgy
is, he’s there,” said W&L sports infonnation director Brian
bogue. “He makes the plays that draw attention.”

Hull was far from unnoticed at Lexington High School.
He was a three-sport standout and was the MVP of the West
team in the Virginia High School 1991 football all-star
game.

The 6-3 210 lineman has made a quick impact on e
defense. in his freshman year, Hull recorded just 24 tack es
as a backup. This month, he is averaging 16 tackles, one-and-
three-quarters sacks, and a fumble recovery per game.

For these performances, it is without hesitation that we
honor Robert Hull as the W&L athlete of the month.

 

    
   
  
  
       
 

NIGHT OWL MUSIC C0.

 

When you bring in this ad 0

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050
Open 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m.

 

463-7797
First Team Sports Casualbinirtg
115 W. Nelson St. Eleswsem
-Fmestsmks
-Freshseafood
°PorkRibs
- 223$ _ -Banquet Facilities J
.1 n llllllllllllllllllllll

.l0ffAnyPurehase'

   
 

“Ike W}\}r3u1:2-’l32Lm_=,-tum ‘l'—'?I~t
’  ../VV\a}ar General awarcl  A

.§V¢m-mm

mm

¢§Il«.¢ /major General 3.: ckesew wxantkly icy sarak Gluloeri’, and "<u¢'tU\ Grant

«ll

  
  
 

    
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
    
 
 
 

 
 

,5.
. _,S

Catalogue" Shoppg

Barn jacket;

   

ATTENTION PARENTS 0

Now you can learn Washington & Lee’s most valuable lesson.

5 I08 .00

$108.00

Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 Phone 463-9730

17 S. Main St. Lexington, VA 24450 .

Also in Lynchburg, Farmville, Chapel Hill, Blacksburg, Lexington, and Smith Mt. Lake

‘s.’ 0  
TGIF Outle

Barn jacket:

Denim Shirt:

l)enim Jeans:
Moccasins (S.‘\I.li):

Total:

We serve Pizza

__ Q  to a Full Italian

Dinner!

Reservations no longer
available for Parents Week-
end. Walk-in space avail-
able, early or late dinner.

24 North Main Street
Lexington, VA

FINE lTALlAN CUISINE 454-5300

  !§ 4
FTHE BEST W&L T-SHIRTS
15 W. WASHINGTON ST.

SPORTS

Run like the wind...

Athletes at Washington and
Lee are busy this week as
seasons begin to wrap up and
championships begin.

The women’s cross country
team, already State champi-
ons, finished eighth in a 21-

A‘ team field at the Gettysburg

Invitational Oct. 23.
Sophomore Josephine
Schaeffer, right, continued her
undefeated season with a first
place in the 211-runner field.
Her time for the race was
18:18, five seconds off the
course record and Schaeffer’s
first failure this season to set
a course record.

Sophomore Amy Mears,
middle left, finished 23rd

overall and was W&L’s second
runner in.

Also hot for the Generals this
year are juniors Kim Herring, far
left, and Sue Deutsch, near left.
(Also, below left.)

The entire squad is running 45-
50 miles a week in hopes of
qualifying for National Division
III championships as a team. A
tough win at Flegionals will be
necessary to send the team as
a whole.

Both the men’s and women’s
cross country teams will host
an invitational this weekend,
Oct. 30. Participating schools
include Eastern Mennonite,
Hampden-Sydney, Sheperd and
Southern Virginia College for
Women.

This will be the Generals’ only
home cross country meet of the
season, and results will be
announced during the pregame
show of the WLUR football
game broadcast.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 29, 1993

Photos by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Phi

Men's soccer, however, saw the end of its season Oct. 26 as Washington and Lee lost, 2-0, to

Virginia Wesleyan in the opening round of the Old Dominion Athletic Conference championships.

Mom & Dad Can Fax You Here!
RESUMES ° COVER LETTERS 0 ENVELOPES
High—Speed, High-Volume Copies, Binding, & Typing.
24-Hour tum—around on most jobs.

I PHONE: 463 - 1712

FAX: (703) 463 - 6918 lgl

125 W. NELSON STREET - LEXINGTON - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

DO YOU ENOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

Back ard skeet is fun but comared to Sortin Clas
it’s borin
At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
to enjoy a round.
Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

Welcome

Parents

20 South Randolph Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(705) 465-6414

Value oriented American Fare

@aLlEi4'Lng
DJ & Dancing — No Cover

@:c.i@y
2nd Annual Halloween Party

-Caeh Prizes
—Live Entertainment

Sunola
7/2 Price Hamburgers

 

 

 .: ii “¢:«“€.5a:3ial(:

5..

 

l ,‘

PAGE 20

24;.»-; iTf}uilI7ord 2-0, advances
~r~< ilollins, Sweet Briar

 

S

Cilia ‘ﬂing-mm ilﬁhi

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

Why not
Varsity,
aerobics?

SARAH ON SPORTS
BY SARAH GILBERT

A sports source recently

informed me that foosball ’

was once an intramural
sport at Washington and
Lee. He seemed nostalgic,
sure that his fraternity
would grab the lead if only
foosball could return into
competition between the
houses.

I will admit that foosball
is a popular sport in
Rockbridge County (check
out the tournaments in the
local hang-outs if you
doubt) but intramurals?

“Foosball is cool,” said
my source.

I suppose it is worth
exploring...whichotherul-
tra-popular “sports” prac-
ticed by W&L students
should be given intramu-
ral, or even Varsity status
at this great school? Do
hidden talents exist which
could catapult this univer-
sity to national attention?

After considerable re-
search Ihave discovereda
few sports which the ath-
letic director and intramu-
ralcoordinators mightcon-
sider.

Darts.

Unbeknownst to many
students at W&L, there is
form to the madness. I did
not realize, until today, that

. the goal was not simply to

hit the correct numbers on
the dart board. (Of course,
my hand-eye coordination
being somewhat short of
Olympic caliber, I have
never tried excessively
hard to learn.)

According to one dart-
player, those numbers ran-
domly scattered in pie
wedges around the board
are random for a purpose.
The difﬁcult task is to hit
each numbered wedge in
order.

I gave up before trying
on that game (and discov-
ered the other side of our
board has a baseball game,
much easierto understand),
butnot before realizing that
there must be some undis-
covered athletic geniuses
at Washington and Leewho
could soar to the top of the
sports world if only W&L
would recognize the sport!

Step Aerobics.

Perhaps the casual ath-
lete will have seen these
women in the small gym in
the late afternoon, and
stopped to watch, fasci-
nated by the instructor's
rhythmic movements.

When my roommate
comes home from a ses-
sion, covered in sweat and
moaning about her poor
ﬁtness level, I realize that
this takes amazing talent.
lmaginewhataMandy ora
Sonja could do on televi-
sion!

Cindy Crawford is one
thing, but a few aspiring
Generals could take the fit-
ness world by storm; I am
sure that competition on
the college level could help
these women gain the na-
tional recognition they de-
serve. Why not?

Mountain Biking.

Take it from me. W&L
is home to some school stu-
dents who are fanatical
about this sport. Ask their
professors on a beautiful
Friday afternoon.

Trips to more challeng-
ing trails than Rockbridge
County has to offer are not
unusual forthese dedicated
few, and true mountain bik-
ing takes more than being
able to pedal up Washing-
ton Street from Alvin Den-
nis to Doremus without
breaking a sweat.

Who knows whatmight
happen if W&L began en-
tering teams in mountain-
bike competitions? I do not
know how much a profes-
sional mountain biker
makes, but it could be
worth looking into if Lex-
ington was home to the
right type of training and
possibilities for races.

It was worth a try.

Hope it’s not a touchback....

Special teams for Kappa Kappa Gamma and the Freshmen women prepare for kick-off in the Oct. 26
women’s intramural football game. Football is the first sport for this year’s intramurals; this year will be

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

the ﬁrst full year of women’s intramurals at Washington and Lee.

Football loses again,
looks forward to BWC

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

They do run, run, run they do run, run. There is
no other way to describe the Generals Parents’
Weekend opponent, Bridgewater College.

The Eagles (2-5, 1-2 Old Dominion Athletic
Conference) come to Wilson Field Saturday hav-
ing completed a mere 27 passes this year, only one
of which has gone for a touchdown. That is an
average of four completions per game! There is
one very good explanation for this——-Ronnie
Howard.

The Eagle tail-back was held to just 36 yards
versus Frostburg State last week, but holds a com-
fortable rushing lead in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference (133.7 yards/game). Howard, a sec-
ond-team All—ODAC selection last year, has topped
230 yards on two occasions this season. Those
performances came in Bridgewater’s two games
prior to last week, earning the senior consecutive
Offensive Player of the Week honors for the con-
ference.

Those ﬁgures coupled with the Generals high-
ranking pass defense will ensure a ground-domi-
nating game by the Eagle offense on Saturday. The
Generals (0-6, 0-3 ODAC) will have something to
say about whether Bridgewater is ground-domi-
nant, though. The Eagles’ passing game—rather,
the lack thereof—should allow W&L’s strong pass-
ing defense to step up and zero-in on the run.
Freshman Eagle quarterback Keith Fix has just a
.339 completion average for 28.8 yards passing per
game.

One player who could counter Howard is W&L’s
Robert Hull. The sophomore defensive lineman’s
numbers are equally as impressive as Howard’s
(see October Athlete of the Month section).

Lexington native Hull was the ODAC’s Defen-
sive Player of the Week for his 16 tackle perfor-
mance in the Generals heart—breaking 26-23 loss at
Sewanee (4-3) last week. He recovered his team-
high ﬁfth fumble. He enters W&L’s seventh game
as the team leader in tackles (83), sacks (8), tack-
les-for-losses (6), and forced fumbles (4).

The ODAC recognition, though, is little solace
for what was the team’s most difficult loss to
swallow this year.

The Generals held a 20-6 lead late in the second
quarter, but All-American quarterback Russ Young
(held to just 13-of-29 passing for the game) engi-
neered a touchdown drive in the ﬁnal minute of the
half.

After a touchdown run by Sewanee’s Carl Cra-
vens tied the game in the fourth quarter, W&L took
a 23-20 lead with 5:16 to play on a 34-yard field
goal by sophomore Drew Thomas. A 35—yarder by

Thomas with 5:59 to play was the game—winner in
last year’s 17-16 shocker over the Tigers at Wilson
Field.

“Le revenchisme” was with the Tigers, though.

Following a 41-yard punt return, Cravens com-
pleted the last-minute game-winning drive with
his second touchdown carry for a 26-23 Sewanee
lead (kick failed).

The Tigers, though, were bent on giving their
several thousand Homecoming Game spectators
heart trouble. On their first play after intercepting
freshman QB Brooks Fischer with undera minute
to go, Young fumbled the snap and it appeared as
if the Generals had recovered a miracle turnover.
However, an offside call against W&L nulliﬁed
the play.

Sewanee would fumble once more, but recov-
ered it themselves and ran out the clock for the
win. It was the Generals fourth defeat by eight
points or fewer, and the second in which they had
held a fourth-quarter lead. The loss ensured head
coach Gary Fallon of just his sixth losing season
in 16 years at the helm of W&L football.

Fischer, the younger brother of Duke QB
Spence, finished the game with 104 yards pass-
ing. Young was just a yard better after previously
averaging near 200 per game.

Senior running back Tommy Mason rushed
for 91 yards, moving him over the 1000 yard
career mark. He is just 26 yards behind former
NFLcoach and All—Prolinebacker WaltMichaels
(1947-50) for 15th place in W&L history.

Despite more than 250 total offensive yards, it
was the General defense that provided two of the
squad’s three touchdowns. On the ﬁrst play of the
second-quarter, sophomore defensive end Rich
Achee returned a fumble 25 yards for the first TD
after freshman linebackerTravis Wisdom crushed
Young on a blitz and forced the loose ball.

v Two possessions later junior cornerback Jon
Wagner returned a fumble 20 yards for a General
13-3 lead. Wagner’s score came after a Tiger
receiver had already made a catch, but dropped it.
The W&L defense has forced 17 fumbles through
six games, recovering 13. General opponents
have coughed the ball up a total of 28 times this
yean

Washington and Lee was upset by Bridgewater
last year 20-] 2 in the Eagles’ Homecoming affair.
Howard had a breakthrough game, doubling his
season average with well over 100 yards on the
ground. His 58-yard scoring run in the ﬁnal
minute held off a late General rally.

Bridgewater, who trail W&L in their all-time
series 15-8 despite four consecutive head-to-head
wins, is on course to ﬁnish no better than fourth
for the 16th time in 17 seasons in the ODAC.
Theironly better finish was their 1980 champion-
ship season.

Washington and Lee will be home for their
next two games, next week versus Guilford and
the following one against Catholic. Both games
can be heard on WLUR-Lexington (91.5-FM),
with pre-game beginning at 1210. Unfortunately,
anyone wishing to follow the Nov. 20 Bermuda
Bowl action versus Georgetown will have to buy
a plane ticket.

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

Now that baseball is over,
what am I supposed to write
about? Of course, being the
omniscient entity that I am, I
would like to remind readers
that I DID pick the Blue lays in
six games. Any questions?

Actually,the end ofthe base-
ball-playingseasonsigniﬁesthe
beginning of the REAL
sialagogic competition. Now,
fans can pick up the sports sec-
tion, tune in ESPN, and talk to
friends about the bidding wars
for all those whining free-
agents.

Which team will get
(want???) Jack Morris, etc. etc.
This year, there is not only this
corrupted fun, BUT, for those
die-hard fans, the owners are
debating a revenue-sharing
agreement, AND the labor
agreement with the players ex-
pires. Who says that baseball is
not a year-round sport?

The performance of the week
award goes to Eric Metcalf of
the Cleveland Browns.

Against Pittsburgh on Sun-
day, Metcalf turned in the per-
formance of his career with two
punt returns for touchdowns to
tie an National Football League
record. The ﬁrst went for 91
yards, and the second, a 75 yard
scamper, provided the winning
margin with less than 2 minutes
remaining in a 28-23 Browns
win.

The Falcons are really mak-
ing me look bad in the past two
weeks. Sunday, the Elvis
(Glanville) led team defeated

This Week:

I

FB——Bridgewater, 10/'30 

WSoc—at ODAC semifinals 10/30
WTennis—at Rolex Nationals {indiv

I
0.‘
ul

X—C—~VV&L Invitational 10/30 )

Women

OCTOBER 29, 1993

score

ODAC victory .

By STEPHEN WILLIARD

Phi Assistant

Sports Editor

The are a group of women at

W&L who won’t take no for an

answer and will run over their opposition if at all possible. 9

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team has proven so far
that they are a force in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference. After
defeating Guilford 2-0 on Tuesday, the Generals moved into the
semi—ﬁnals of the ODAC tournament and revived from a disappoint-
ing week that saw the team lose twice.

According to senior Corinda Hankins, “We are acting more like
a team now than at any point in the year.” The Generals reboundgd
after being shut-out against both Randolph-Macon and Notre-Dame
(Md.) with goals by Michelle Bauman and Kate Stimeling. Jennifer

Lynch had assists on both goals.

According to coach Jan Hathorn, “It’s good to have a certain
amount of tough games on the schedule.” Despite the rough week,
the women responded in the big game. The next game will be tough
according to Hankins. “Roanoke is usually a rough game. Roanoke
has some tough fans, and so does Randolph-Macon,” said Hanki .

The soccer team credits the W&L fans for some of their success.
Hankins said, “W&L has been really good about supporting us this
year.” Also, the women hope that the support continues on Friday.

The leading goal scorer for the Generals this year is Michelle
Bauman with six tallies. Aspen Yawars leads the team in assists with
four. Corinda Hankins and Kate Stimeling have scored ﬁve goals
each for the Generals. In all, twelve different players have scored Rir

the W&L squad.

Keeper Beth Mozena has also put together an impressive season
with seven shutouts and an .821 save percentage as the General’s

only goalie.

In all, it has been a successful season for the Generals, and one that
the team hopes is far from over. A win on Friday would catapult the
team into the ODAC finals on Saturday. No matter how the seaﬂn
turns out, the Generals can count this as an extremely positive

experience.

Steve told you so

New Orleans in the Superdome.
The victory leaves the Falcons
undefeated since the return of
Neon Deion Sanders. The win
was especially meaningful for
Atlanta QB Bobby Hebert, who
once started for the Saints. Hebert
completed 13 of 16 passes against
his old mates in front of a chorus
of boos.

In other NFL news, Charlotte
was the proud recipient of an
expansion franchise. The home
of the Hornets emerged from the
battle after terrorists (or was it
just some Denny’s waiters)
threatened to bomb any other
city which received a franchise
before the Queen city.

Actually, this week I have a
note from the good ol’ Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
(since my editor says I have to
write out any abbreviations-
ODAC from here on out). T94:
mighty Eagles of Bridgewa‘
defeated Washington Bible Col-
lege to break a ﬁfty year old
record for wins in a season. There
is a catch to this good news,
however. Men’s soccer at
Bridgewater was dormant (there
wasn’t a team) from-1942 until
1992 (which accounts for the 50
year thing. Also, in 1942, the
team only played two games,

going 2-0 for the season. Last
year the team went 1-1 1 . The
worst thing about the whole
thing is that the ODAC;
Sports News actually PUB-
LISHED this underthe head-
ing, and I quote,
“Bridgewaterbreaks50—year
old Record.”

Parting Shots-

The Blue Jays victory in.
the World Series was not the
only notable news in Toronto
this past weekend. The
Toronto Maple Leafs opened
the hockey season with an
undefeated record. I think
the fans in Toronto need to
get their priorities straight.
After all, the National
Hockey League season will
still be in full swing NEXT
baseball season.

Manute B01 is still in the
National Basketball
Leaguel!!! ‘

Cincinnati is still playing
just an incredible caliber of
football. Even though the
Falcons have let me down,
the Bengals are a powerful
0-7 at this point.

That is all that I can mus-I
ter for this week. Have a
great weekend, and remem-
ber—your parents are here.

 

Volleyball streak to five‘

By BILL RUST
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee volley-
ball crushed Hollins 15-3, 15-7,
15-6, to secure its ﬁfth straight

Congratulations...
Cjke Octeloer /\x)luv-12«i.v\g-Luwx (DRE
W/v\..;... c3......,...u-

'<Sop[-scwxore
Qebert
1-4 ..u

h-vsee story, page 18

 

match. The victory broke the
school’s old record of four con-
secutive wins, which was set in
1988 and equaled at the start of
this season.

It improves the team’s over-
all record to 14-11, its Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
record to 5-3, and guarantees the
Lady Generals their ﬁrst win-
ning season since 1988.

Senior Tara Burns had a theory
about this year’s success. .

“The biggest difference [from
last year’s squad] is that we play
together as a team,” Burns said.
“We don’t have one player who
really stands out, so we’re really

balanced; one game, one player
will have a good night, and an-
other game some other player
else will.”

The team presented Hollins

with an even attack. Burns led
the team with ﬁve kills, but jun-

ior Jennifer Garrigus, freshman
Elizabeth Bahn, and freshman
Virginia Yoerg followed closely
behind with four each. Setter
Cheryl Taurassi contributed 16
assists, and Bahn had seven aces
to complete the Generals’ on-
slaught.

The team’s defence was once
again led by Yoerg, who extended
her record-breaking season by
contributing eight blocks. She has
82 to date, far eclipsing the
school’s old record of 69.

She was aided this time by
Bahn, who managed 11 digs, and
sophomore Kelly Horan, who had
seven.

The team’s ﬁnal home gamt

came on Thursday against
Randolph-Macon. They enter the
ODAC tournament on Nov. 5-6
at Roanoke. .

Burns felt the team has a
chance to compete in the ODAC
tourney.

‘‘If we keep playing the way
we’ve been playing, we’ll have a
good chance,” she said. “I‘m not
promising anything, but we’ll
giave a lot of teams a run for thar
money.”

With a young team and a new
coach, the Generals have had to
adjust this year. The team began
the season with a winning streak
which equalled its best
ever,slumped mid-season, arﬁi
now has returned to re-set the
streak record.

‘‘In a lot of respects, having a
new coach has helped the team,”
said Burns. “J ust the fact that the
team knows that she’s going to
be around, helps.” Q

$4 V

 

    

