 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXVI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCT. 22, 1965

Number 9

 

101 Recetve
One or More

‘U’ Notices

The number of freshmen receiv-
ing unsatisfactory grades for the
first six weeks of the semester is
slightly higher than last year, ac-
cording to figures released by Dean
Atwood’s office Thursday.

One hundred and one members
of the class of '69 received one or
more notices, which represent a
grade of F or F-plus in the work
of the course to date. This is an in-
crease of five over last year; how-
ever, the total number of U reports
given declined slightly, from 122 in
1964 to 119 this year.

This year’s total is the lowest since
1962, when 115 were given to only 85
students. In addition, this year’s class
has fewer members who received one
or more of the dreaded U’s than any
group of freshmen on record. Twelve
students were saddled with two
apiece and three were unsatisfactory
in three courses.

A breakdown of the courses in
which the notices were given shows
a huge increase in the number
awarded in the physical sciences,
Chemistry accounted for the largest
number with 24, an increase of nine
over last year. The geology depart-
ment gave out 14 as compared with
four in 1964; biology doubled its total
from nine to 18; and physics was re-
sponsible for 11 as opposed to only
three last year.

It is noteworthy that the total
given in 1964 in the sciences was
abnormally low compared with other
years. This semester’s total of 67 is
still an inerease of seven over the
previous high, set in 1963, however.

The figures for other subjects show
a corresponding drop, with the ex-
ception of Latin, up two to six; and
Greek, which remains steady with
one. Of the other language depart-
ments, German gave out ten as op-
posed to 17 last year; French de-
clined from ten toe three; and Span-
ish accounted for one lone U, after
awarding three in 1964.

Sixteen unsatisfactory reports
were were turned in in mathematics,
a decline of seven from last year
History recorded the greatest pro-
portional drop as the department
gave out only seven U's after be-
stowing 24 last year.

 

Novelis

In his lecture last Tuesday night
David Stacton said that the author
needs two basic qualities in order
to achieve success. He needs to have
an experience of life and a control
of the language. Yet even if these
qualities are obtained the author still
confronts certain booby traps.

Mr. Stacton is well qualified to
speak on the qualities an author
needs and the pitfalls he encoun-
ters, since he has written novels,
short stories, verse, biography and
history. Besides being a Glasgow
Visiting Professor, he has held a
Guggenheim Fellowship. His books
are Ride a Tiger (biography), The
World on the Last Day (history), An
Unfamiliar Country (verse); and
(novels) Dolores, A Fox Inside, The |
Self Enchanted, Remember Me, On a
Balcony, Segaki, A Dancer in Dark-
ness, and People of the Book to

 

t David
“If you are going to build a bridge,...”

Novelist’s Problems
Described by Stacton

 

name a few.
The two basic problems the author

Professor Merson’s Surprise Poll Of 50 Students

 

Poly Sci Poll Approves Lawful Protest |

(Editor's
page two.)

In an unannounced poil taken of
50 students in Prof. Martin Merson's
Political Science 101 and 211 classes
Wednesday, October 20, a strong, al-
most unanimous trend supporting
the right to protest up to the point
of becoming either unlawful or det-
remental to the country was found.

The poll showed that of the 50)

note: See editorial on

 

comment recommending civil diso-
bedience in any form. Although four
students referred to the Civil Rights

movement and its intentional disre- |

gard of several statutes at times
while protesting, none recommended
them as means of protesting or en-
dorsed them

The poll was conducted by Prof
Merson without advance notice to his
two classes. As the students entered

 

 

 

students polled, 45 answered yes to| the classroom, they were instructed
the question, “De you agree with| to candidly answer the questions,
the right of citizens to protest United! within the five minute time limit,
Question: 101 21 Total
1. Draft Cards 1 Yes 0 Yes 1 Yes
31 No 18 No i) No
2. Right to Protest 27 Yes 1B Yes 5 Yes
5 No 0 No 5 No
3. Suppert of Government 27 ve i6 Ye i ¥e
5 No 1 No 6 No
1 Not sure 1 Not sure
1. Goldwater 5 Ve > Yes
ij Ne 13 Ne
States involvement in Vietnam?” ,and comment upon their responses
Five answered no. However, in each| From the outset. they were told not
individual's rationale for his an-|te sign the papers. It is also signifi
swers, none of the five spoke against | cant that there was no class diseus
the right of protest. Four of them] sion on Vietnam. prior te the poll
stated that they believed that pro- The Pelitical Science 101 class i
tests should not be allowed because| an introductory course in politi
it would encourage the Communist] «science. It consists of 32 students: |
forees and therefore bolster the mo-|6 seniors. 6 juniors, 26 sophomores
ral of the enemy. The filth disap ind 6 freshmen. The 21! ela s In
proved of the manner in which the | ternational Relations which demand
protests were heid a A prerequisite, Politic Sciences
Of the 45 whe supported the right | 101 and 102. Eighteen student were
the cilizen to pretest against | polled: 5 senior mad 13 juniors
Government action and policy, each The texts of the question re
pointed out in his written comment | Qu on 1 We vou ree with the
that right to protest was limited.| right of iden » tear up draf
If the protest injured the security of , cards in steat of United States in
the country, or broke its laws, then | velvement in Vietnam’
the right te protest was abrogated Question 2, “Doe you agree with the
Also significant was the lack of a! right of ecilizens to protest United

| Vie nat

aa
Stacton

encounters is what to say and then
how to say it. As Stacton said in his
lecture, “If you are going to build
a bridge, you have to know what it
is for and where to put it.” From
these two basic problems stem all
the other problems that an author
encounters.

The worst difficulty an author
faces is the problem of relating his
material to the real world of the
20th century. In terms of this criti-
cism, said Stacton, Patrick White is

 

the only good contemporary writer
The author must understand himself
in terms of his age.

The author should stay away from ,
abstractions since he wants to report |
an objective experience. In this re-
gard the work of Saul Bellow was
not successful.

The author who attempts to write |
an autobiographical novel, said Stac- |
ton, usually ends up not writing}

(Continued on page 4)

States involvement in Vietnam?”
Question 3, “Do you feel now that
the decision has been taken in the
highest councils of government to
wage war in Vietnam, that the in-
dividual should do everything
support the Government?”

Question 4 (Given only to Political
Science 211), “Do you think that
Barry Goldwater, if elected President
in 1964, would have handled the war
more effectively?”

It is noticable
to the other three questions ceorres-
pend to the rationale as set forth

lo

that the

respons .

|} sons each

 

supporting Question Forty-nine

believed that the burning of draft
cards exceeded the limits within
which protest is legitimate. They
considered it against the law. dis-
loyal, and to the disadvantage of
American forces

Forty-three thought that it is the
duty of the citizen te suppert his

country even if he disagrees with its
policy. Most the 45

decisions on duty to countrs

ol

based their

duty to

society, and the urgency and

conflict
who defended the riel

signili-
of this
OF the

te

cance
.
a: eiiizen not to upport
ittler de<
tated No eitizen

Upport ; overt

eovertiment even the

had been set, one

nas the duty te

ment pol. The others expressed

 

the view that the eitizen should

ne i
biindly follow the vie Mm

uation

point where these protests bre

 

Student Union Pl

anners

Announce Innovations

The Student Union Committee yesterday announced a pro-
gram of sweeping improvements in the present Student Union

facilities.

Dean Edward C. Atwood, chairman of the committee, em-
phasized that all plans must be considered as no more than
tentative at the present time, but that the committee had agreed

upon a list of desirable
which will now be more investigated
by the subcommittee.

The following proposals will be
under consideration by the subcom-
mittee for the next two weeks:

The position of permanent Student
Union Director has been definitely
established. The director's duties and
whether or not he will be a profes-
sional or a student have not yet been
decided.

General Lounge Area, for students
and their dates will be located prob-
ably in the area presently occupied
by the two rooms at the main en-
trance. The room would be carpeted,
furnished, and supplied with piped-
in hifi music.

Two Television Rooms will be
provided, one seating 50 and one 30
people, with one and perhaps two
color television sets.

A Library, about the size of the
present lounge would be stocked
with general-circulation magazines
and approximately 500 paperback
books. Comfortable lounge chairs
and possibly table space would be
provided.

A. Game Room will be installed
with game tables and equipment.

Meditation Room and Chapel with
Office for University Chaplain ad-
joining.

Large Recreational Area, to in-
clude five pool tables, five ping-
pong tables, and an investigation
will be made into the feasibility of
two bowling alleys in addition.

Meeting Rooms, one of which will
hold 100 persons and may be par-
titioned into two rooms for 50 per-
Three smaller rooms will
be supplied for meetings of groups
up to 25 people

Organization Facilities will in-
clude a Permanent Executive Com-
mittee Room, slightly larger than
the present one. Ideally, the room

| will have a separate entrance and be

in an area which could be closed off
from the rest of the building and
include two or three smaller rooms
for use during honor trials

Another large room will be made
available with up to ten desks and
file cabinets for campus organiza-
tions in need of office space such as
Calyx, Southern Collegian, and the
Mock Convention

A Snack Bar or Rathskeller has
been proposed for the basement area
now occupied by the music practice
room. This room could be furnished
tables, chairs, a piano, and
box. A bank of machines would
food and drinks, with
that 3.2 beer could
served at certain times. Combos and

(Continued on page 4)

with
puke

dispense

a

possibility be

 

i

|

i

facilities*———

66 Recipients
Of Lee Grants

Announced

The recipients of this year’s Robert

E. Lee Research Grants have been
announced by Dean William W.
Pusey. A total of 66 students have
been named to work on 51 different
projects under the supervision of
faculty members. The purpose of the
grants, established in 1950, is to give
the students a chance to participate
in independent research and to de-
velop closer relationships with fac-
ulty members.

In the field of chemistry, Jack Ap-
plefeld and Jeff Kugel will study the
effects of certain agricultural chem-
icals on the amino acid and flavonid
complement of selected plants; John
Burk will attempt to seperate and
identify the organic compounds in
sweat samples taken from cystic
fibrosis patients; and Phil Manor and
Robert Utley will make difiusion
studies on zine and cadmium.

Bis

 

 

Also in chemistry, Neil Jespersen '
will study oridation-reduction reac-

tions in absolute methanol; Skip
Davidson will do research on the
seperation of inorganic electrolytes
by electrophoresis; Bill Hartman wil!
will investigate organic mixtures by

means of gas chromatography; and |

Herb Mitchell will
photolytic reactions
organic compounds.

investigate
of light labile

More Chemists

Other students work in Howe Hall
and the titles of their projects
clude Seett Kennedy, “An Investiga-
tion of the Preparation of delta-9, 10
Octalindionine-1, 5”; Jon Neegaard,
“The Separation of delta-9, 10 Oc-
talin from delta-1, 9 Octalin”; Ed
Lawrence, “The Preparation of 4-
Carboxybenzenesulfhydrazones”; and
Bill Thompson, “The Thermoelectric
Properties of Metal Crystals.”

Also receiving grants in the field
of chemistry are Gavin Garrett, who
will conduct an investigation of the
solvent effects on the interaction of
sulfate ion with silver ion in molten
salts; Mike Spector, who will work
on the preparation of inorganic gels;
Dayion Miller, who will analyze the
solubility of silver chromate in mol-
ten nitrates; and Alan Cohen, who
will study the purification of organic
solids

Harold Head wil! analyze zor
fining efficiency by gas chromatogra-

(Continued on page 4)

the |

in- |

 

r

Machlup
“Liberalism and Freedoms”

Fritz Machlup
PBK Economist,
Here Monday

One of the nation’s leading au-
thorities on economics will visit
Washington and Lee Monday and
Tuesday to speak and meet with stu-
dents.

Dr. Fritz Machlup, Professor of
Economics and International Finance
at Princeton University, will discuss
“Liberalism and the Choice of Free-
doms” Monday evening at 7:30 in
Lee Chapel. Dr. Griffith of the Com-
merce School, which sponsoring
the visit in conjunction with the
Visiting Scholars program of Phi
Beta Kappa, commented that Dr
Machlup’s topic will be of interest
not only to students of economics
but to those of political science, law,
history and many other fields.

Dr. Machlup was born in Austria
in 1902 and received his Ph.D. from
the University of Vienna at the age

Is

,of twenty-one. He came to this
country ten years later in 1933 and

became a naturalized citizen in 1940
From 1933 to 1935, he was a Re-
search Fellow of the Rockefelle:
Foundation; 1935 to 1947 he
the University of Buffalo's
Goodyear Professor of Economics,
ifter which became Abram G
Hutzler of Political Eeon-
omy at Johns Hopkins, through 1960
Dr. Machlup has
fessorships at
Northwestern
Michican
UCLA

from

Was

he
Professo

held visiting pro-
Harvard, Cornell,
California, Stanford
Columbia,
and Kyoto. He is a directo:
a number of business firms, has
ben a consultant for the U.S. Depart-
ment of Labor, and is currently Pre
ident-Elect the
nomic Association

American,

ol American Eco-

 

The monster pictured above. which has been terrerizing students and tewnspeople for the past week has heen
identified as the legendary Willapus-wollapus, which hibernates eleven months of the year and comes out only
n the fall, 1 is complelety harmless except fer leaves.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tuim Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

_ Friday Edition

Apathy

Surprise! Surprise! May wonders never cease.

Behold, a new realization has emerged from the murky
depths of student mystique. It has been discovered, that, con-
trary to majority opinion, the student body (a percentage
anyway) of Washington and Lee can actually see past the red
brick and white columns. Yes, its true, considerations and prob-
lems other than drink, flicks, women and conventional dress
enter into their thoughts.

One could go so far as to state that these same students
are aware of the world situation, and even concerned with it.
Furthermore, it has been displayed that serious thought has
been applied to such worldly matters.

The source of this great discovery is the poll taken by
Professor Martin Merson in his Political Science 101 and 211
classes last Wednesday. In this unannounced poll, he probed
the students’ views on essential issues now poised concerning
U.S. involvement in Vietnam, the right to protest, and a citi-
zen’s duty to his country.

The results shattered theories of student apathy and ignor-
ance. Within the five minutes allowed for each student to ex-
press his views, each one displayed a familiarity and concern
over these issues. The poll showed that the students were cog-
nizant of recent developments in the war and their many impli-
cations. Many of them showed immediate concern over the
importance of the conflict in balance of international power
They correlated the outcome with its future effects upon the
United States and eventually themselves.

Several went beyond the superficial and pointed out the
relationship between the Vietnam protest marches and those of
Civil Rights groups. They showed how civil disobedience dis-
played by the Civil Rights marches served as a precedent for
similar methods by the Vietnam protesters.

In evaluating the protests, no one challenged the right to
protest, but each questioned the impact of such demonstrations
upon the war. Several spoke against the protests on the grounds
that they encouraged the enemy. They declared that such
demonstrations might lead the enemy to believe that the cit-
izenry of U.S. did not support the war and desired for United
States withdrawal of forces. Such a misconception would ob-
viously destroy any possibility of negotiation.

All of the above is significant in ascertaining student senti-
ment. It shows a student commitment to freedom of speech—
to a limit. The poll also displayed a deep sense of duty to the |
country. However, more significant than any of the above, the
poll proved that the students ARE aware, ARE concerned,
and ARE constantly thinking about the world situation.

 

 .. Far Ahead of Most Institutions”

Kugel Lauds W&L Liberty

By JEFFREY KUGEL den us in life after we leave collea
In the 1950’s, Washington and Lee Washington and Lee gives us the
was known as “The W&L Country | freedom to choose many of our own
Club:” a place for well-to-do prep | Paths—yet, we must fullfill our re-
school graduates to go to study the | SPonsibilities, or our freedom will be
finer aspects of golfing, tennis, so-|tevoked. For example, the latest
cial drinking, bridge playing, and|¢¥t system will probably result in
fine balls, dances, and parties. No less cutting of classes by juniors and
one mentioned academics back then, | 8€niors, because with the freedom to
Today, however, academics are men- | determine one’s own class attend-
tioned and loudly. But is W&L stil] | #mee., one weighs the consequences
the country elub of vestervear? And | of his cutting as to his needs and re-
if it is. should it be? sponsibilities in a course, and not
just cutting to use up that last cut
in the semester

 

Washington and Lee is a beauti-
fully balaneed institution exhibiting
characteristics of education rarely| The fraternity system at W&L i

sught at colleges and universities in} the keystone in the learning of life-
the United States. Here, we students | responsibilities. In the fraternities,
may learn lessons not only in com- | ¥® work and play with compatriots
merce, arts and sciences, and lan-| a d we learn through living with
uage and so forth, but also aj People the necessary social grace
broad learning as to the responsibil- which should be a part of every
es we will certainly face upon|™an's education. The greatest ex-

raduation. Education may be de-| @™ple we have is the drinking prob-

ined as experience or familiarity | em. Learning when, where, and es-
ith a given subject. And as far as pecially, how much to drink are

ching responsibility goes, one must lessons invaluable in terms of re-

have experience with it in order to; P°" ibilities

earn to control it, and to be respon- As things stand, Washington and
ble. Therefore, we must be given | Le is far ahead of most institutions

certain freedom in order that we] 2&©c#Use by condoning the several
iy learn te control the “freedom” | freedoms we have, the administration

id many responsibilities that bur- (Continued on page 4)

The Ring-tum Phi
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college
ear. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and
Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878

WILLIAM D. CANNON JR KENNETH BERNHARDT

 

 

Editor-in-Chief Business Managet

EDITORIAL BOARD
M surice Flic

Executive Editor:
Managing Editor Howard Epst in|
Assistant Managing Editor Rusty Meyer, Bob Keefe
New Editor Sam MeCix miey Blaine Ewing
Assistant News Editor Mike Dun
Sports Eddito: Kaz Herchold
Editorial Consultant Tom White
Copy Editor Lock Handley
senior Cartoon Editor Garry Apga
Photog: iphet Pat Arey, Steve Sharp
BUSINESS STAFF
Co-Busine Manager Jim Redenbaugh
Advertising Manager George Meier, Randy Chitwood
Office M ankacer Charlie Tomb
Circulation Manager Bob Priddy,

Awad’s Visit To Backtown, Virginia Finds
Sickening Resemblance to Somewhere Else

By JIM AWAD the material and spiritual benefits it | tragic part is yet to come. Nothing|of them and see it for yourself. It
This is the story of a town in| brought with it. j}had happened to the residents of | wasn’t the kind of attainment that
southern Virginia named Backtown. Backtown didn’t take part in any | Backtown—they lived on just as they | could be quantitatively measured.

From one point of view it is a tragic| of this—it just remained an isolated| had lived before. There were no|It was a synthesis of achievement
story, but most consider it to be a| outpost living by and projecting out-| tangible consequences of their re-| that made life much more fruitful for
tale of compassion, beauty, and joy. | ward the social values established by |fusal to admit the steel industry to} each and every resident.

Anway, the story goes like this: | buck private L.M.A. Gentleman. But| their town. But the people in sur- But if you remained in Backtown,
Backtown was a happy place. The| the people were happy. rounding towns moved forward.| you wouldn't think the people there
society was ordered, everyone knew One day a man representing the} Their standard of living was higher;| were missing out on anything.
his place and there were no conflicts | the steel industry (oh dirty corrupter| the people were more comfortable| Everything went on just as before.
of any kind. The ways of the town} of happiness) came to Backtown and|and had more access to opportunity;}'The tragedy is that the people of
were fixed; the twenty farmers did| requested permission to locate aj they were able to do more for them-|Backtown missed out on so much.
their job, the two merchants did} new plant there. But the people|selves and for each other; and the|Oh, you couldn’t prove that they’d
their job, and the hundred and fifty} wouldn’t even listen to him, they | population in general reached such| missed out on anything; as stated

policemen did their job, shut him up and sent him away, be-|a degree of material efficiency that} above, what they missed was a syn-
Above all, everybody conformed to| cause they were happy exactly as| they were able to sit back and con-| thesis of achievement.

the standards set by the founder of | they were. And anybody who spoke | centrate on more valuable things. If only they’d listened to those

the town—buck private 1M.A,] out in favor of the plant was ostra- This isn’t all that happened to the} who “sereamed” out in favor of in-

Gentleman—-a hundred years before. | cized, criticized, and told to leave| other towns. The benefits they de-|dustry when the opportunity for
It was proper to do certain things,| the town if they didn’t like it as it} rived from being open-minded were] change presented itself.

 

 

to think certain ways about a few] was. immeasurable, The only way to grasp} But the people of Backtown were
pecified topies, and to dress in a The story could end here, but the! any conception of it was to visit one | happy—naively happy.

 

certain way. Of course, no one step- | ————"—"—"—"—"—"""~_ — eee a ae

 

 

     

 

 

ped out of line—that was unthink- we
able. ———EEE————————E7~, —— a. 3
Backtown and the society in which Ess

its inhabitants lived were beyond
question, because everyone was hap-
py. Every once in a while somebody
would “scream” out against the order
of things, but disturbanees such as
this were easily remedied; the offen-
der was fined a certain amount of
money

Anyway as time wore on, the sur-
rounding towns invited industry into
their respective communities. Along
with this industry came a _ higher
standards of living and a new set of
social rules more adaptable to the
newly-formed industrial society and

LETTERS

\ TQ THE oR
DiTO

Biddle Answers Ruffin re bein

Dear Mr. Ruffin - = 2. - _ a BUT MOMMA, oo . APGAR,

Having belonged to that group of

 

students “united by a lack of di-
rection and a surprising naivete,” I
was, to say the least, a little disap-
pointed in what your article said o1
did not say. I assume of course that
you are acquainted with the majori-
ty of first year law students who
are continuing their education here;
and, in retrospect, after numerous
interviews, you found most cited,
“the road trips and excitement of
campus politics” as the underlying
reason for staying at W&L, even at/**University Can Demand Respect”
the price of furthering their educa-
tion

| asked, Mr. Ruffin, that before you A d, | [ Hz t ‘l ] t li t F d’
enlighten the W&L world any furth- | Wd y er / or nin é igen CH
er with your remarkable epistles, |
you make a sincere effort not only | By LIN HARTIN cerning conventional dress? As a/| part of the individual for the Uni-

|

“Hey, Howie! Your blind date is here!”

 

 

to contact a fair representation of | There has arisen since Dr. Cole’s high school senior about to enter | versity

the first year law class but also| opening remarks on conventional | Washington and Lee the possibility; 1 am not speaking of the kind of

embark upon an objective study of | dre at Opening! of such a situation never occurred | respect that the individual has the
their reasons for persuing law Assembly some-/to me. I gathered from the orienta-| right to give and take as he pleases,

Had you taken the time to research thing of a contro-| tion material sent to me that con-| but rather that respect that the
the subject of “law in later life,” you versy over ai ventional dress as well as speaking | University has a right to demand of
would have found that a large per- number of Wash-/|to one’s fellow students, and the/he individual. The University has
centage of the successful men in ton and Lee's | freshman beanie were firmly estab-| the right to demand this respect

o called establish- | lished and strongly supported Wash- | because it is superior to any individ-
ed traditions, con-| ington and Lee Traditions

this country have at one time studied
law. Kennedy, Roosevelt, and Lodge
are only a few who come to mind
Perhaps they, along with the ma-

| ual student and the individual is in
ventional dres However, traditions don't con-| the position of a supplicant. If an

being just one of/ tinue forever without some recon-| individual is unable to render this

 

jority of businessmen, feel that the | them i sideration of their value to the in-| respect, then he is in the wrong

study of law enlarges one’s capaci- This controver-/ stitution. We have been going | school and should leave
ty to think logically and to avoid Hartin say, I think, has through just this for the past two| There are other values that can be
sweeping generalizations been carried on at | years at Washington and Lee. Var-| attributed to conventional dress. It
Indeed, one must certainly be dedi- | @ rather unintelligent level. The ab-! ious things have come up, the honor | is much more pleasant to be around
cated to succeed at law, just as one|SUrd personal feud between Ros stem and conventional dress prob- people who are de — clad than
must be dedicated to succeed in| Tyler and Jim Awad I am afraid ably being the most significant. In | around slobs. Also, it is not too early
whatever field he chooses: but claim. | has cast little light on the matter a me case unfortunately, this re-| to get used to a. will be expected

ng to love law. or any field befor whole. Indeed they have created! consideration appears to have been| in later life
coming acquainted with it, seems,|4 great deal of needless confusion! carried out by a misguided minority,| 1 certainly don't advocate carry-
¥f 10 bare minimum. a bit testy.| amd [frankly the whole episode re-|and in the ease of the freshman! ing conventional dress to an extreme
On love for something grows out flects rather idly on the repective | beanie anyway, I believe that a ser-| It hardly seems called for at the
of knowledge, net ignorance editions that printed their artiel ious mistake was made nine o'clock show at the Lyric or at
As for those who have stumbled | At the terrible risk of writing a com- With the matter of conventional | the College Inn during the midnight
into law school, I can only join you| Pletely boring article on a dead is-| dress one should ask what value | coffe break. But, needless to say.
in saying “good luck sue, 1 would like to try to consider! this custom has to the institution as| conventional dre hould be a must
GUS BIDDLE | th ibject again and draw some a whole. The first thing that comes | anywhere on the hill during the day
lowieal conclusion to my mind is that conventional dress| and anytime in MeCormick library
Just why is there a problem con-' is an indication of respect on the (Continued on page 4)

Detente
Editor, The Ring-tum Phi Old Gray Omar Just Ain't What He Used To Be

by now practi ily evervom on
ampu ck of my tl

ores" 1899 Alumnus Cites W&L Decline

returning them. | ealled for an end

 

 

of the episode after last Tuesday iy OMAR GLEE ‘ de to the Southern Seminary | now wm discovered with a young
gr oe i cael aan wt column, | Saturday Colummist a . se ied comet antes. (1 must lady above the erypt, the elders
‘ \ i i adm e had a rather bawdy namelealled an end to the affair. Let that
have talked to Mr. Awad: something A ‘ Phe wd old da M for it—Pre Kissing Kob in.) bn 1 lesson to you, my young

iboth of u hould have done at the/| re W ‘ Pasca | often I shall new forget m fivet big | friend
“ ming of the exchange Both : ‘ t what a eekend. As I reeall, we were iven We certainly did live the life. but
of us had brought the attacks of our ke Iw I ahall holida Saturday evening class tie tell me that ll passed now
columns down to a somewhal per- weve lore the ere called off. We held a ball in} Oh, how I mpathize with you sons
onal level. I feel as he dos out lo oul ‘ ‘ eine # the Lee Chapel and|of my Alma Mater. No quick nip
olve nothin tears om Madam dl ead Robert BE. Lee. Onell from the cookin herry. No keyhok
W } lecided to settl M Balalierina | G n | believe howed up| peek at th ul rdjusting their
i mm te i po ' 10 allowed me to 0} } ' A) pan Lineoin. Oh iene No ereopticon slides My deat
‘ p j ‘ } ; vor tie with mit te mun nan. H recovery riend | ily wish vou could have

thies eleetio 1 the Unpe i le but complete. Hf only the een born soone
e. W igh i ‘ ) é me Outi Un ty physician had been found i Edito note: Omar Glee gradu
le ; vr d ym Ope B ling. Romane 0 But that mother story ited from W&L back in the good
n od ould i i mart the i) i i wvet forget now la: da Cla of 09. He went on to
able " i a ckhed chaperone were when] become Execut ve Vice President ol
1 fee hat th would be a fai i x1. Some- e danced fast fox trot. It was|Rum Runners Anonymous, a pro-
‘ et ia tile le ' ‘ ck how } : ce n puri i i md ball. But when alhibition license concern. He : now
slution ) T shblem eras rf ioleso re Perhap , h teilow Gilliam, I helieve h comilor nl etired t the Idaho
ROY TYLER : : 7% the delightiul ear- me ; God know where he i Hiome for the Infirm.)

Jac k Robb rie

Subseription Manager

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals To Meet
Defensively Rugged

Western Maryland

The Washington and Lee Generals seek their second vic-

tory of the ~~ this Saturday against Western Maryland on |
Wilson field at 2:00 p.m. After a very impressive homecoming
victory over perenially strong Guilford, the Generals will try
to make it two in a row with a win over Western Maryland,

which comes into the game with a 3- . record t to date. ‘This
looms as a battle betwee - a very*— ——

 

ra

eset

it
CR go “mM ee

wt Mt Ps i
He ail

 
 
 

polished Western Maryland eleven
and the up and coming scrappers
from W&L.

Western Maryland's three victories |
came via Wagner of New York, 7-0, |
Pennsylvania Military College, 15-1
and Lycoming, 18-13. They a
their sole loss last weekend to
Hampden-Sydney by a score of 15-
13.

Western Maryland’s game features
a rugged defense which has held its

The Generals work on their passing attack, oven to conserve their opponents in check most of the sea-

momentum for the game with Western Maryland Saturday.

I-M aGoGo

Charlie Snatches Defeat

By CHARLIE BENSINGER |
Dear Mom and Dad,
We are certain that you, the pub-

 

Moving to League C, the picture
clouds. Sigma Chi has outscored KA
but also has lost 7-6 to Kappa Sig.

son. The only touchdowns scored

*against the defense all year have re-

sulted from bad breaks. Moreover,
their opponents so far have been
limited to short gains on the ground.
The Marylander’s secondary ranks
among the best of the small colleges
and has turned in numerous inter-
ceptions which led to touchdowns.
As for their offense, their main
threat is a superb freshman back,

Guilford: Kaz
: Doesn’t Like
You Anymore

By KAZ HERCHOLD

Saturday the football season
reaches its midpoint. Western Mary-
land (Western who?) journeys to our
sunny little spot in paradise to face
a mentally buoyed up W&L team.
Hopefully, last weekend's miracle will
supply the Generals with the mo-
mentum to salvage something of
what's been so far a dreary cam-
paign. The Guilford game proved,
though, that the art of prediction
is at best unscientific, at worst bord-
ering on the absurd. At least here
in the last great bastion of Southern

4 bi 2 al

ad ast
The fredman soccer team works
tory over Hargrave Tuesday.

With revenge in mind, Washington
and Lee’s soccer team traveled to
Washington, D.C., today to compete
against American Universiy. Last
year the Generals had not been de-

 

out in practice after their 4-1 vic-

Soccer Team Engages American
As Frosh Revel At Hargrave

both sophomores. The Generals hope
to improve on their 3-3 record be-
fore their next game which will be
against Roanoke at home on No-
vember 5.

lie, will be overjoyed to hear the| Kappa Sig earlier had been tied by | Tom Borgha, whom Coach Mac con- culture, we'll work from that prem-| feated previously during the season Freshmen Win

news that our favorite columnist| DU while KA defeated NFU 8-6.| siders to be one of the finest backs, ise in the future. and were enjoying a six-game win-| The freshman soccer team con-
may no longer be a columnist. Think League D is headed at the moment the Generals will see all year. Play- Guilford’s Quakers displayed some | ning streak when A.U. visited Lex-| tinued its winning ways as it beat
what dreams the Tuesday sports staff | by Pi Phi, 7-6 conquerors of PiKA,|ing at halfback, he has a lot of rather un-quakerlike (here we call

and Lambda Chi, victors over Delt
13-6 (yet, that’s what it says!). Also
under League D results is the score
SAE 6, PiKA 6.

We would like to nominate both
KA and Sigma Nu for the W&L pro-
duction of the Pitt-West Virginia
game. KA rates as our second choice
by virtue of the touchdown scored
against them by the NFU team, its
first TD in five years. As for Sig-
ma Nu, how can it be denied? In its

is now having. It seems that a cer-
tain date last weekend, and the
week before,, and the week before, is
now in the hospital with mono.
Guess who has been feeling rather
sluggish and lethargic these days?
How about that for a report on the
“indoor sport?”

Amazing! No one knows that Galen
Cisco and Howard “Hopalong” Cas-
sidy were teammates at Ohio State.

 

speed and all the moves to become
a great back in the future. He leads
a talented backfield that has contin-
ually driven at their opponent’s goal
and has averaged two touchdowns
per game.

The offensive style of the club is
similar to that of the Vince Lombar-
di cult, which places great emphasis
on execution. If one of Western
Maryland’s basic plays fail to gain
the first few times that it is used,

it ungentlemanly) conduct during
most of their sojourn on Wilson
Field. Numerous clips and personal
fouls paved the way for the gay
abandon which characterized Guil-
ford’s first half scoring spectacle.
The wide-eyed gridiron police, gen-
erally found to be as provincial as
Lexington’s finest, managed to spot
some of these infractions. Ah, but the
game film showed rather clearly the
ones they missed. The NCAA has

ington on Homecomings wekend.
Washington and Lee, however, was
upset, 3-0, by a team with only a
fair record. American University
again has only a fair record this
season, but W&L now is wary of
what could happen and should be
ready this time. Last year’s defeat
was the first for the Generals in the
series between the two teams.
Although several W&L players
have been injured, the Generals will
be fairly strong for the 3 p.m. game.

 

Hargrave Military Academy Tues-
day, 4-1.

Jack Smith opened the scoring for
W&L, heading the ball into Har-
grave’s goal in the first quarter on
an assist by Ray Hartwell. Hargrave
got its score in the third period, and
thus it remained until ten minutes
of the last quarter when Jack Hor-
owitz tallied on a penalty kick. Two
quick goals, one by Hank Grady
and the other by George Patterson,
widened the eventual margin of vic-

Even worse, could it be that no/ first two games it has allowed 59 they won't discard it, but will run} some sort of rule prohibiting the Co-captain Tim Henry and Wes tory.
scholar knows that Ted Kluszewski | points. If any one knows the record |it again, striving for more precise | maligning of referees, so we're forced Horner will play today, as their leg According to coach Bruce Jackson,
and Bill Skowron were both All-| for the most points allowed in a|execuion to gain the famous “three | to curtail the diatribe. Brooks Hines and Jon Burt played

four-game IM schedule, please call
either your reporter at 463-3412 or

American ends (at Indiana and Pur-
due respectively)?

This week let's try the ten greatest
QB's in past NFL history. We'll sup-
ply the names and the teams,
supply their uniform numbers. The

you |

the Sigma Nu Captain 463-6494.
Now that the dull topic of intra-

murals has been disposed of (it was

the only way to get to write a

 

yards and a cloud of dust.”

For the Generals, it took three
games to get untracked and pile up
some yardage and a few points on
the scoreboard, but they did it in

style last weekend with a thrilling

26-20 come-from-behind

But Guilford ought to learn at
least one cardinal lesson in gridiron
etiquette, before venturing into the
‘Gentlemen's Country” again. Amy
Vanderbilt generally concedes that
the beaten coach meet his adversary

injuries are not severe enough to

keep them out of action.

a fine defensive game, while Hart-
| well and Grady contributed consid-

Yet Dave Redmond, the other soc-
cer co-captain, is unable to play be-
cause of his back injury. According | j
to Dave, it is doubtful that he will |
return this season. This is a consid-

| erably to o the team’ s offensive punch.

‘f “TOLLEY’s aeeneer’

 

Seah: . ; s tur . iec ictory : ad ;

greatest: Otto Graham (Browns), column), let us turn to the subject of , ™ wee vic ‘ post battle at midfield. Guilford’s epehie lees . the teome sinee Red- Prescriptions Filled
Charley Conerly (Giants), Bobby j the R-t P football contest. This => oe - oe . bad mentor exercised exceptional good mond was an All-America last year Immediately
Layne (Steelers), Sid Luckman | week’s entries show the Generals - oa a . _ got _ “Yl taste, not to mention social savoir-| and has slaved well thle eneamn tao. PURCHASE DRUGS
(Bears), Bob Waterfield (Rams),/to be favored to defeat Western | ¥!00m, the Generals surged back in faire, by staying on his side of the one ae aca a.

, : | the second half to tie the game and|,..,’ 9° "8 oo ©) Starting in his place will be either | | HO 3-2211
Davey O'Brien (Eagles), Norm Van' Maryland by a thirteen to ten vote. ily ae oo é - field at the conclusion of his squad’s| Richard Burroughs or Bob Smith. f
Brocklin (Eagles), Frank Albert! Note that this adds up to only yon ua ——— ve weaning oa demise. Perhaps it was the shock of | —_—_—— Se
(49ers), Sammy Baugh (Redskins), twenty-three entries. ; down with about one minute re- it all. But poor manners tend to 90000000000000000000000b 000 O COC; CS OSS ESOC OeCCeS

and Y. A. Tittle (Giants)

For next-to-last time, golf and ten-

Therefore, this means that over a

|

maining. After such an impressive
| showing last week, few changes are

 

gross out the W&L community, par-

°
e 4 .
; thousand students, or perhaps pupils | oma : ticularly the Openings horde, or : d H I °
nis. The league winners in golf were | (there is a difference), are passing up S— C “ + — what remained of it at the end. ° alr- utton, nc, °
SPE, Kappa Sig, Sigma Chi, and Phi 1 chance to win enough coin to buy owever, Coac acLaughlin faces a sotaatitthe Miiiieiha hate sh. ° :

; . : ra0fis, SPR. > : | difficult task in naming a starting cicentally, Sewanee s D ea Lexington, Virginia -
Delt. So far in the ey ole fixe six-packs, six flicks with pop- | backfield, so huset sunsundinnty lest eechend : :
has beaten Kappa Sig and Phi Delt corn twelve and a half hours of | ™ scans uae teats oon. cae °

» Kappa Sig has defeated Sigma : : fi " _| The running of John Anthony,| “5 ' ear o on yes, waeis vy H uarters for Men’s Wear e
Chi. ee : i at art ae alae aes te John Bogart, and Tom Pittman was|###in) College lacerated the Uni- ° ; cn °
; s0n-loO-pers é - i. f :

We pick SAE over Sigma Nu, DU, | cludes tax and leaves two cents left| _—«(Comtinued on page 4) (Continued on page 4) : it Gifts, Items for the Home °
and KA in tennis though we know | over) Sococccoooooooocoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooee ° vy Appliances °
only that Sigma Nu has won over We must add. however, that we|@ a i ; sighs ° :
KA. by a 3-2 score. Incidentally, We} a6 above and beyond reproach ; FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECE OF FURNITURE > 3 We Wel Yy Ch A :
like SPE in golf this means that we don't accept | § See ° : ce elcome Y our arge Account :

Now for the latest on football. In ieatieon : s\: ;
League A, ZBT has tied Phi Kap Can you guess which five inches | § V A RNER d POLE . hhh hhh her ttiriti titi tiititi titi t ty)
and defeated Phi Ep, 19-6. Phi Gam were thrown in at a late, late date? |® an °
has beaten Phi Psi, 7-0, who in turn e °
has bested Phi Kap, 6-0. In League Your Loving Son, @@@@@e@eeeeeeeeeeseceseseseesseeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeee

B we find that Beta has beaten SPE FRANKIE HOGAN

 

and Sigma Nu. In this last game ; RTI IZ]
Richard Nash threw for three TD's (WREL sports staff)
and ran for one as the score was MA N N¢ J

 

has defeated Sigma Nu
SPE-Phi Delt game

Two-Way Radio Dispatched
TAXI SERVICE

Low Rates

26-0, Law
33-0, while the
was postponed

The Young Man
in the Know
knows ‘“‘Dacron”’

: - ’ I Looks great any place,

NOTICE CLAYTON’S TAX ny time in a wrinkle-
Anyone interested in forming a chap- HO 35-2148 fighting poplin raincoat
ter of the MMMS should contact 15 S. Jefferson St.

 

 

 

 

Irving Forbush at 4331

—_-

 

Your Full Service Bank

in Lexington

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

STEAK SPECIAL
CLUB STEAK
With all the trimming»
New York
SIRLOIN STRAK

Prime
ROAST BEEF

2.95
3.25

FEOESEEEESEESESES EEE SEEESES TEES ESSE SESE E OEE E TEES
2.25

SUNDAYS ONLY

TED’S STEAK HOUSE

Route 60 Buena Vista
eeeeeoeooereroooreoeroeeeereoeoooroosoooooooooes

SESS SISTIS

 

of 65% Dacron* poly-
ester, 35% combed
cotton. Tan, black,
muted plaids at fine
stores everywhere.
*Du Pont's registered
trademark.

POND

Better Things for Better Living
through Chemistry

 

 

SERVICE

Agents in Dorm

Tom Robertson
Shaun Donahoe

en

One nour oe

mmanrinci:

THE MOST WE

PRESTO ESS S SEES OES SSeS Soe eS o EES EEE SESE EES EEES
. DRY CLEANING
* . LAUNDRY ;
. SHIRT SERVICE
- ONE HOUR
+
|
| Lexington Shopping Park
+

SOEEO OSES SEES 9045 50555500060000400004000000000.

 

Ken McGraw
Dick Daesner

"

a a a a a a a eo
 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Generals Stage Comeback,
After Losing Three Games

(Continued from page 3)

outstanding along with the contin-
ued good efforts of Buddy Atkins
and Bryant Kendrick, along with the
valuable return of Rudd Smith. You
will see a lot more passing again
this weekend in an attempt to split
and isolate the tight Western Mary-
land defense.

The defense, after
obvious first half lapses, tightened
to contain the Quakers. Led by
Tersh Baker and Jay Bowersox, it
stopped Guilford’s backs from skirt-
ing the ends.

some pretty

As far as Saturday’s game is con-
cerned, Logie Bullitt’s status remains
doubtful as a result of an injury.
And Charley Myers is still sitting it
out with shoulder problems. Both
these losses will be felt.

 

Martie eae ea

STATE

 

LEXINGTON, VA | ROBART 3-343¢ |

 

LAST TIMES SAT.
aL Pia $ MOST GLITTERING CAST!

She Uellow
Rotts oT A Ved

d METROCOLOR

 

 

SUN.-MON,-TUES.

 

SIONS Y JAMES + AMANDA BARRIE » KENNETH WILLIAMS
JOAN SIMS » KENNETH CONNOR CHARLES HAWTREY

 

WED.-THUR

 

|

|

 

Color TV, Library, Snack Bar For Student Union

(Continued from page 1)
singers would also be permissable.

One Large Rehearsal Room, about —-
| anc

fifty by thirty feet, will be provided
for the Glee Club, Brass Choir, and
other instrumental and _ singing
groups. Three Smaller Practice
Rooms, two of them six by nine
feet and a third twenty by thirty
feet, are also planned for music
practice,

In addition, the committee plans to
provide such support facilities
three to five telephone booths, toilet
facilities, water fountains, a cloak
room, and coke machines, and
looking into the possibility of hav-

as

is

‘ing a post office for student mail.

Four subcommittees have been ap-

|

|
|

 

pointed to consider minor aspects of
the proposed changes, particularly
location, furnishings, and costs,
are to provide preliminary
sketches and floor plans at the next
full committee meeting on Nov. 4.

Students who have further sug-
gestions for improvements are urged
to contact one of the members of the
appropriate subcommittee, as listed
below:

The general lounge area, television
rooms, library, and game room: Dr.
James G. Leyburn (chairman), Mac
Dobson, and Barry Vaught.

The recreational area: Mr. Doug-
las Brady (chairman), Lane Steing-
er, and Jim Awad.

Meeting rooms

and Organization

 

Austin College Lacerates Sewanee, 20-6

(Continued from page 3)
versity of the South’s (with all due
humility, of course) purple wonders.
Austin racked up over 500 yards on

offense, completing 20 out of 32 pass- | football

es. Sewanee’s superboy, Bill John-
son, who has publicly envisaged re-
venge for last year’s bubble break-
ing ceremony at Wilson Field, was
held to one big yard rushing. And
such a fate for someone who WAS
the _nation’s leading small

 

college | bye.

back. Final seore by the way, 29-6.
Some parting words. The com-
plaint that Washington and Lee men
lackadaiseal in support of their
team seems incongruous
with the University’s avowed policy
of emphasis on intellectual endeavor
and the University’s noble tradition
of emphasis on the finer aspects of
the well-rounded man’s complete
education. Well, enough said. Good-

are

 

 

David
Richard

facilities: Dr,
(chairman),
Chuck Griffin,

Music practice rooms and snack
bar or rathskeller: Mr. Henry L.
Ravenhorst (chairman), Dr, William
W. Pusey, and Rick Kurz.

W. Sprunt
Nash, and

Author Cites Booby Traps

(Continued from page 1)

about himself but rather about many
of his acquaintances.

Sentimentality is a quality which
should be avoided since it obstruts
an objective view of the facts. It is
a sign of poor writing, he added,
since it relies on an appeal to the
emotions to attract the attention of
the reader.

Stacton also pointed out other
problems encountered by the author.
The author has to portray his char-
acters in depth in order to give
strength to the novel. The literature
of violence a confession of in-
competance by the author since he
admits to the reading public that
he can not think of anything else to
say. Lastly, before an author can
deal with subjects such as guilt,
alienation, and social disintegration,
he has to be sensible of prevailing
conditions.

is

R. E. Lee Research Grants Awarded To Sixty Six

(Continued from page 1)

phy,

| tion of apparent prehistoric Indian |

while Phil Mollere studies the |

preparation and reactions of allenes |
and other multiple bonding systems. |

Jack MeGill will work with bieyclo-

| octanes and higher bicyclics, Manor

jas lab assistants.

| Chesney

 

NUREYEV

ETHER FOR THE PIREGT TIME
f ne Tea MOTION PICTURE & mi tN’

   
    
      
 

   

 
 

As Evesene Worn

, To TAL
NY a I 4
9 oe,
Aw wee OO ru
sa AIK
ae _—
Students $1.25
IN ADVANCE

 

 

 

SUPE ESSES CESSES EE TETECESE

:

The
COLLEGE INN

+++

SPSS $$ $44 446446465450004

oe
-
$
+
te
&
+
+

PEPE EE SEES S ESTEE EOSS

 

Waggy's Jewelers
35 8. Main St
Phone 4633-4121
Keepsake Diamond Ring»
Modern repair department

 

 

 

:
;

will use his second grant to inves-
tigate nitryl chloride and related
nitrogen compounds, and Riff
O'Connor and Jerry Taylor will serve

English

In the field of English, Sam Me-
and Paul Murphy will assist
in the preparation of a critical mod-
ern spelling edition of George Chap-

man's The Tragedy of Byron. Bud

Nicklin will conduct a study of
Hawthorne’s mirror imagery, while
Bill Gilbert, Mike Marcoux, and

Starke Sydnor receive grants to help
with the publication of Shenandoah.
Dave Marchese, Hal Higginbotham,
Bill Grant, and Drew Colclough are
are aiding in research for the debate
program, and Bruce Rider is receiv-
ing help in finishing his novel.
Receiving grants in the history de-
partment are Drew Baur, for studies
of the nationality problem in the
Hapsburg empire and the last Cru-

sade; Lee Johnson, for an investiga-

 

 

FEEEESESESEEEEEEESESEEEEEES EEE EEE EEEEEEEEE TEESE
STUDENTS!
Make this your headquarters for Good Food
and Service
We have meal tickets at savings to you

TRY OUR NEW TAKE OUT SERVICE

Southern Inn

PPEREEEEEEEOEEESEDESEEES DEED EEEDED EEO DEE DEED EEOD | COEEEEEEEEEOUEE ODED EEED OEE S ESET E DE DEEOEEEEOEEOED | $44406646606666666666666666660666006600060000008

 

 

    
 
 
     

SUN.-MON
|” “WILD ASA
4 RUNAWAY
a: TRAIN! A
LULU! FUN
FOR “UN'S

SAKE!"
yr > New York Times

 

 

 

 

 

eeeeeseeeeeeeseeeeesese

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

1 Hour Dry Cleaning

. COMPLETE SHIRT SERVICE $

Seeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeceses

SESS SSS S SESS EGE SCSTSES

Radio
Hospital

tote de ols

Sales and Service
af

rv,

ib

Radio, Appliances

joa
14 South Randolph
SOCTOOY

>

PPS SSE ES SEEPS SSF S446454E04

v
oye
valle

EREESESESEOS

wt

 

Analysis

; ment

 

sites in the Ohio River Valley; and |
Todd Crowell, for an analysis of |
Thomas Jefferson’s concept of his-
tory.

Also in history, Bob Imholt holds
two grants, one for compiling a bibli-
ography on U.S.-Brazilian relations
between 1942 and 1965 and one for a
reorganiztion of the artifacts and
papers of the Rockbridge County
Historical Society. During the sec-
ond semester he will assemble ma-
terials for a paper on Dr. Leslie Lyle
Campbell.

Psychology

Psychology accounts for ‘several
including one to Aron Suna
for a study of sources of interfer-
ence in verbal learning and one to
Rog Sphar for an analysis of list
differentiation and transfer of train-
ing. Andy Smith, Red Manning, and
Riff O'Conner (the only student to
hold grants in two different depart-
ments) will work on various aspects
of brain damage in rats.

In biology, Bob Wein will investi-
gate the detection of X-chromosome
lethals introduced in fruit flies by
radiation and chemicals while Lew
Davis continues his study of am-
phibian cytogenetics. Don Lineback
will work with the fine arts depart-
ment in a study of the compositions
of John A. Graham, and Jehn Free- | ,
man will conduct “a Compaartive |
of Socialization in Work |
Groups.” for the sociology depart-
In geology, Bill Butler will
sample statistics in igneous rocks.

grants,

Commerce
In the commerce school, Billy
Want will do research into the de-
velopment of institutional investment
and its effect on the security mar-
kel; Birnie Harper, Charlie Jones,
and Chuck Reese wil! investigate the

* HICKMAN’S ESSO $
° on $
: US. 1 SOUTH :
7 om
poceeceoeooooooooooooces

effect of varying capital structures
on the cost of capital; and George
Meier will study joint ventures un-
der section seven of the Clayton
Antitrust Act,

Others doing research in the C
school and the titles of their pro-
jects are; Neil Houghton, “Manage-
ment Decision-making Simulation”;
Bob Hudson, “Research in Urban
Politics”; Tom Kelsey, “Collection
and Annotation of Library Materials
in English Major Orientatl Political
Philosophies”; and Jack Robbins, “A
Study of How Federal Tax Structure
Affects Investment Decisions Within
the Firm.”

Law School

Law students doing research un-
der the program include Robert
Powell and Stu Finder, on Virginia

trol of state criminal proceedings;
Norm Glassman and Ray LaJeun-
esse, on the ofanization of federal
and state judicial systems in 1787-89;
and Richard Israel and Richard Farr,
on the extent of publication and dis- |
tribution of printed legal materials |
in Virginia and the United States
before 1801.

Also working in the law school are

tary and its Impact on the
| munity,” and Douglas Campbell and
Kenneth Korfman, who are working

on the improvement of highway safe- |

ty and criminal

Virginia.

investigations in

criminal procedure and federal con-|

Walter Armentrout, Charles Distnay, |
~ Charles Hamilton, whose topic |

s “Acquisition of Land by the Mili-|
Com- |

 

Shirt Service as You Like it

Bring Your Complete Laundry
to Us

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS
63-3622

*

“Your Campus Neighbors

 

 

 

TOWN INN
ABC 5392 on and off
Sandwiches, Beverages, Dinners,
Seafood
STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
30 N. Main Street

 

 

 

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

 

SCHOOL SUPPLIES

at
5
Rose’s
STORES, INC

Main St.

 

.
*
*
+
-
.
=
.
>. Quick Service
.

PRESSE ESSE SESE SSS SSSEEE SEES ESSE EEE ESES SEES EE EES

 

Student Accounts Welcomed
Member FIDC

x

(Continued from page 2)

keeps them in the open, obvious, and
thus easy to keep those who can-
not learn their responsibilities in
check. Whereas, at institutions where
there is little freedom, the liberties
are taken anyway, and what is
worse, in secret, where little control
can be maintained by the administra-

NOTICE

Leon Edel, Professor of English
at New York University, has can-
celled his planned lecture on “Lit-
erature and Psychology” originally

 

set for Tuesday, October 26.
Dr. G. Francis Drake, chairman
of the Seminars in Literature com-

mittee, announced that Professor
Edel had become ill and is present-
ly in a New York Hospital.

A.

Ww wv

IFC buses will run this weekend

back to all girls’ schools, leaving at

11:45 from Red Square. Jody Luck,

chairman of the bus committee,

warned that buses would leave ex-
actly on time.

PEE SE be E

Seek oye

-

*
.

we

*.

fo efesfoate ake ake ofe-

SPSS SSS SSSSESSESSESSSSSESSESOSSSSSSS ooo SSS SESS E LES SSS SESSESECOSS Peery SESESESSEESSSS PEELS ESS SESS ESS SESS LESSEE ESSE SESH

 

 

|

|
!

|
|

|

Pres Brown’s

foe

PESOS E LSS SG ettoe

 

    

Your best buy in fine slacks!

See the wrinkle-free Hagger slacks at the Traditional
shop. A variety of styles, shades, and materials,

from $6.95

Che Sak
Craditional Shop

Quality men’s clothing at reasonable prices.

Kugel Praises W&XL’s Freedom

tion except by harsh pnitive mea-

sures.

The watchword for today’s educa-
tion is “the well-rounded man,” a
man who is abreast with the latest
in science and technology, and yet
also can live in a society of people,
with their culture, arts, and histories.
And a W&L man should (and will!)
have as fine a social education as he
may obtain an academic education if
he so applies himself. What W&L
needs is more freedoms, to produce a
better educated man, a man better
suited through his experiences with
the acceptance of responsibility while
in an environment of learning, to
find his way in life with people.

 

Conventional Dress
(Continued from page 2)

I firmly believe that this view of
conventional dress is held by the
vast majority of the student body. I
have enough faith in the individuals
here to believe that the tradiiton of
conventional dress will continue on
a self enforced basis. It will continue
with or without future prods from
Dr. Cole and in spite of Tyler and
Awad.

TTT Tr Tr rrr

As odvertised on

"12 O'Clock High” ABC-TV

¢
i
t
:

 
