 

Che KRing-tumn Pht =

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

 

 

Volume LXVI LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 30, 1966 Number 47-A

Mike Moye Tops Field Of Five
For 1966-67 Presidency of SIPA
is

 

Gary Patterson
Places Second;

Belding Third

By Tom White

Mike Moye of Greenville,
N. C., swept to a landslide vic-
tory today in balloting for the
1966-67 presidency of the
Southern Interscholastic Press
Association.

Moye drew more than 50 per cent

Bd. a - of the total, polling 107 votes to 43

SIPA delegates dance to the music of the Prophets and the Disciples | for Gary Patterson, his closest com-
at Friday night’s dance. A number of W&L students attended also, as usual. | petitor. Susan Belding received 12

votes with Blackwell Brogden get-

Jeff Gordon Of Richmond Mtlee Ares of Arlington's Wash-

   

     

 

ington-Lee High School received six
write-in votes while classmate Pete

Seel ived one, ¢ ree
Wins Current Events Quiz, ieee oc ae. e

John MeWilliams also received one

 
      

R F 6 t 8 write-in vote. i ; i mc a

Scores Ang @ vom 7 0 dency Cee partientae in pret | Newly lected SEPA President as _ of Green ville, N. C., (right) poses with three other candidates:

By DON ELLIS Braves case) and Gerta Munsinger|*W° aspects. First, the campaign was ere mony = mag eg Aig Newport News, Va., and Gary Patterson, Ashland, Va. Not

Jeflery Garden of Thomas Jef-| (central figure in Canada’s sex~se- oa with what appeared | Paes & oe 8 =
ferson High School in Richmond | curity scandal) were the most fre-} 0° TAF (6s intensity than those of

= SS Se SS 1. recent years. Second, Washington

aced first with a 76 in the SIPA|@uently missed questions, while Staff : Pag — ' D D
a: tro Test administered | Sgt. Sadler (composer and singer and Lee students failed to come up n an ar Uunn VAWS
pride ‘ f of the “Ballad of the Green Berets”) | With a fake candidate for president. = * 5

. and Adam West (star of TV’s “Bat-| Last year’s campaign was the most
Jan T. Hall, Jordan High School, man” series) were the two questions widespread of any in recent memory.
Durham, N.C., and Tom Larson

E e t
» NC,, é *| answered correctly most often. Two of the five candidates featured A ronsk Sa S H eve a lta U1 es
George Washington High School, Sieun tied convertibles going around Lexing-

 

Charleston, W. Va. captured the next

ton with campaign paraphernalia. D , a lb
two places with 74 and 73, respect-| Some of the more humorous “M-1All five candidates had posters By RALPH FULLER | William Fulbright that the United UVINg a
ively. swers were: Milton Olive—Famous| plastered about campus, the town What ie nee only American| States is in danger of succumbing
The test was one of identification| tree growing in Italy; Jan Smith—| and highways leading into Lexing- ot 7 Seacaumi in South to the arrogance of power, and, he By JIM THOMPSON
of 50 persons and things currently in pe yreme ns i ton. viet tem “i . an American | 2dded, it is easy to be impatient with! ‘The key to cartooning is to observe
——— Lowest Score 8 aan a ie Roane he’s Bach year it has been traditional | tang war in Asia, a CBS news cor-| those who question our policies. |human frailties and comic short-

for W&L students to come up with The activists, he noted, have the and depi hem in ;
whey he a ; respondent sad here today, and he e activists, he ’ comings and to depict them in a
Fifty-four delegates took the test|"°! 4 cowboy he should be—It's a} 4 candidate for president. Such peo- : ;

" , added that “for the United States| ™ore attractive and simple solution,| humorous manner, Robert Joseph
providing a median score of 42, in- | 890d Ya ne ple as “Goo” Gossman, Clyde| .1.+ is truly at issue in the world | but that solution has noticeable de- | Dunn Jr. told the opening SIPA gen-
cluding a low of eight. Gordon's high The classic test submitted, = Twynke (Twynke’s No Fynke), Mel- erisis is how we will use our pow- | fects. To follow a policy of “Pax | eral session here Friday.

score represents a three-point im-| &Ver, Was one in which the content vin Furd, and Phippie Sharp achiev- pe ” Americana,” he said, we would run} puny
provement over last year’s high of | @" answered “received Academy| eq immortality by being W&L-sup- | °"’

 

current president of the

alle a . > s : Jivaring the fi re ne | Out of armed forced to enforce it. National Cartoonists’ Society and

73 and the low was a four-point drop Award” for 20 of the - ee ported candidates for president. oda ceaiamene te aa And to adopt a permanent policy of the men whe draws “They'll Do It

, 2 prev 12. Among other identifications sought - = 4 apel, C a 4 = x aws e}

“— = ” Pikser, Woodrow Wilson| on the quiz were Kwame Nkrumah Signs Displayed newsman Martin Agronsky said the ( tinue va page 4) Every Time,” illustrated this point by

remy ser ar y sor , 1 é , ’ ; . a Basse eee sh aw

High S ‘hool, W sshington, D.C., with | Nguyen Chanh Thi, Thich Tri Quang Moye was one of the few candi-| U.S. has become involved in a land sketching several caricatures for the
c Was . : = Bul ~ani ; ane,

71. and Barry Leader, Douglas| Beira, Palomares; Jack Nicklaus dates this year to have signs put up| war it cannot win and cannot afford
a , § é i T, as . z é ; s,

Dor emus Gymnasium audic nee ol
rT ’ \ 2 ? 3 ; On Campus urging hi sle : se.
F freeman High School, Richmond, I aul Dietzel, Bobby Hull, Bill Rus 4 I rg 3 > ele clion A to lose

about 1,000.

 

¢ i Ze yreeny _- . j ; Fiat Se he *hose is rst sub-

Va.. with a 70, were the only other| sell; “Years of Lightning, Day of |junior at Greenville, N. C.’s, J. H. But the problems of Viet Nam : ae ~ . = 3 his fi IPA
. . « ’ . : . ; : - @ r e 5

contestants to score 70 or above. Drums.” “Marat/Sade,” “Michaelan- Rose High School, he has been chos-| relate and project beyond the imme- ject, Prof. John SENG, OOF

 

E. William Henry (recently re-| gelo"; Truman Capote, Evelyn; ©" editor of next year's edition of | diate situation, he added. He cited
tired head of the FCC), Milton| Waugh: Luna 10, Mig 21, Boeing The Green Lights. He has served as| the United States position as the
Olive (first Negro Medal of Honor | 747, LSD; Candice Mossler, Lurleen | #58#stant editor during the current | most powerful nation in the world,
winner in the Viet Nam War), El-| Wallace, Indira Ghandi, Maria Cal- schol year. Active in the Greenville | and its “awesome responsibility :
mer W. Roller (Wisconsin judge who! las; Ralph Ginsberg, James Hoffa Teenage Democrats, Moye was an/the power to destroy absolutely

executive director, because “I'm
always on the lookout for odd-look-
ing characters.” After Dunn proceed-
ed to sketch “Honest John” taking
up a church collection, Jennings told

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

        

    

   

      

 

      
   

   

 

 

   

 

 

 

legates he woul ; os.
ruled on the Milwaukee-Atlanta | and Nah Tay (Continued on page 4) . Agronsky noted the v view of Sen ao cg ae ue for
Blind Sketch
The cartoonist also drew an SIPA
delegate and high « thool principa
\ | r selecied at random, Washington and
Lee cartoonist Gary Apgar, and an
advisor—the latter by utilizing on!
J de pions from Apgar
By MAURICE FLIESS Va.; The Windjammer, Newport News, Va.; Cavalier, Spartanburg, 5.C He completed his address by draw-
Editor-in-Chief, SIPA Ring-tum Phi Special The Trojan, Dry Fork, Va. The Mountaineer, Clifton Forge, Va ing 1966 SIPA president Jim Mead of
The Jefferson News of Roanoke, Va ‘s, Jefferson Senior High School, The Yearbook trophy awards went to The Haliscope. South Boston Va i Richmond. whom he later decorated
Proconian of Chapel Hill (N.C.) High School, The Blazer of Cedar Grove Orator, Atlanta, Ga.; Black Swan, Vinton, Va.; The Prowler, Monroe, N. C.; Martin Agronsky (Continued on page 4)
(W.Va.) High School, and The Spokesman of Cheraw (S.C.) High School Trojan, Midlothian, Va.; Historian, Richmond, Va. == = =
were named state scholastic press award winners this afternoon at the Jefferson Senior High School of Roanoke, Va. which had the VPA
37th annual SIPA awards luncheon . : = = Sand é Courage Needed In Journalism,
The Spokesman was a double winner, also taking the trophy for News- A full list of awards is found on pages 3 anc
; oup (enrollment 401 to 609) ge = Pp | S T il SIPA S
“— aan Group IV, The Proconian was a first place award winner, award winner in its newspaper, The Jefierson News, boasted a magazine au wensson ells ession
while The Jeflerson News and The Blazer captured Honor Awards in SIPA trophy winner, as well: Acorn, : By WADE BURKHART os teats be es tee
Group III and Group IV, respectively While Penman of Washington-Lee High School, Arlington, Va., re- — 2 eo es a “te ‘ wen - cei — Sex ror
ee eee > shies ceived the other magazine trophy. Wolverine Turntable of Andrew Lewis Paul S. Swensson, dire ctor of Thejhis fearless reporting of
Besides The Spokesman, 16 publications were awarded Sl A trophic ceiver a er a ; realest Mage se Newspaper Fund, told an SIPA gen-| Viet Nam, Swensson pointed ov
today under the major headings of newspapers, yearbooks, magazines High School, Salem, Va., took the top SIPA award fer radio shov so ly dig and et gly tempt ea the ;
and radio shows —— : : nalist must have courage in today's|many more had paid the i]
Citations Listed } ‘ ) celui iow thale enusem *
i Cited by the Virginia Press Association “for its persist . ‘ “ tule to your|others will " i
i ing campalg to bring certain schoo! pro | une " the audience! the integrity of the
' school administration and to the community as a whel id for m un- % 7 4 de ne a safe and/| preserved
i ing a well-balanced coverage of all schooi new The ‘ane News was 9 ‘ é in journalism Swensson saraphrased :
' award d the VPA's 18th annual Scholastic Pre Award » inn es exaranies he used to ile | Mackin in zs Mo
i The Preconian, garnerit the 16th annual North Carolina Senhoiastic lustrate OLN Hazel Brannon Americas who stressed th t
i Award of the Winston-Salem Journal and Twin-City Sentinel, war ac sn if Lexington, Mis who with | inere ined pre co
; claimed “fer the high quality of its journalistic standard ts contribution id own three weekly | princilpe areas. There
to the schoo! aa a creative and positive fore “li nulation of active ure suffering from | to report chan )
interest in = hool and communily ise of Her eourageoU pro caused ‘
The 10th annual West Virz Aw : ( u o wes j _
Press Ciub went to The Blazes . “ 7" zs a : : a atiees -
and community Wi Hen i _ — ‘ B ribe 0 “1G lie u i i
ards o| jour nalistic tec nnique * 5 . ts Sa " : - ;
effective ce : , Blur ye rd k ‘ )
: The Gochemmen vas selected for the seventh annual David f eech }
A. Till 1st Memorial Award of the Greenville News-Piedmont for th ks H f Ark ‘
Sou ; i; scholastic pre n ‘ i
Double SIP A Warner ;
« " sond. V ) ) ro Viet Nam Editor
wr. , ; ay = Vi a q he Match wid Yi ska P i The Torch 4 delegaie insperis one of the newspapers displayed in the journalism | ‘ ‘ Hi ; ' "= 7 N = owe —_ © ex
: Othe winning newspaper trophis ere Reiders Digest. Fallc Church, seminar room in Reid Hall. j second large newspaper, Was sSNnOt (Continued on page 4)

 
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

SIPA SPECIAL

SIPA and Sigma Delta Chi

Journalism students at Washington and Lee University have
long assisted in the myriad tasks surrounding the annual con-
vention of the Southern Interscholastic Press Association.
Before this year, however, the W&L chapter of Sigma Delta
Chi, national professional journalistic society, had only one
official duty during SIPA weekend: sponsorship of the dance
and serving as a floor committee there.

This year, those journalism majors who have been selected
for membership in Sigma Delta Chi also are including the
publication of the annual SIPA Ring-tum Phi Special as one of
the chapter’s 1965-66 projects, and, consequently, SDX at
Washington and Lee further identifies with SIPA.

Since Sigma Delta Chi and the Southern Interscholastic
Press Association pursue common goals and uphold similar
ideals, we believe this addition to the SDX functions at SIPA

is appropriate and will be one to benefit both organizations.

At Washington and Lee, SIPA and SDX are linked by
history. Forty years ago this month, SIPA was established “to
serve as a stimulus in raising and maintaining high standards
of scholastic journalism and to unite in a common organization
the scholastic journalists of the South.” Three years later, in
1929, 25 men founded the W&L chapter of Sigma Delta Chi
and pledged themselves to the three major purposes of the
society: ‘“To associate journalists of talent, truth and energy
into a more intimately organized unit of good fellowship, to
assist the members in acquiring the noblest principles of jour-
nalism and to cooperate with them in this field, and to advance
the standards of the press by fostering a higher ethical code,
thus increasing its value as an uplifting social agency.” More-
over, in 1960, SDX added a working objective to this state-
ment of purposes which ties in specifically with SIPA: “To
attract talented young people at high school and college level
to the journalistic field and to nurture this interest until the in-
dividual becomes a practitioner.”

Sigma Delta Chi also aids SIPA in various other ways.
Members aid in planning, preparing and registering for the
convention. Officials of the association, including Professors
Riegel, Davis and Jennings, have been initiated into SDX,
and one of the newspaper short course instructors, Timothy
O’Keefe-—once an SIPA delegate—was chapter president in
1964-65. All are promoting the aims of both SDX and SIPA
in singular actions.

As this 37th conventions concludes, while the W&L chap-
ter of Sigma Delta Chi congratulates the 1,200 delegates on
another outstanding convention, members of the journalis-
tic society welcome the opportunity to serve the press asso-
ciation in additional ways during the SIPA meetings to come.

The Ring-tum Pht
SIPA SPECIAL EDITION

mc Maurice R. Fliess

Editorial Aasietent.. eae .Thomas White

Staff members: Ralph Fuller, Randall Prior, Wade Burkhart, Brad Roches-
ter, Jim Thompson, John Rutherford, Don Ellis, Webb DeHoff

The SIPA Special Edition of the Ring-tum Phi is published by the

 

 

 

“It’s staggering,” Prof. O. W. Riegel said, to estimate
the number of persons who have been delegates to the
37 conventions of the Southern Interscholastic Press
Association.

The figure probably exceeds 30,000, most of whom
are living, many of whom “I meet and am told, ‘I was
an SIPA delegate in such-and-such a year,” and
some of whom later decided upon journalism as a ca-
reer, he noted.

“Thousands have, maybe,” the veteran SIPA direc-
tor said, and a good many made Washington and Lee
University an intermediate step between SIPA and
work in the mass media.

Prof. Riegel emphasises that SIPA was not founded
for this purpose—to lure potential journalism students
to W&L—‘“‘but we have found this to be an advan-
tageous by-product on many occasions. They come here
during high school and like it so well they return for
college.”

Columbia.

the

“To serve as a stimulus in raising and maintaining
high standards of scholastic journalism and to unite in
a common organization the scholastic journalists of the
South,” SIPA was established in April of 1926 by the
W&L Department of Journalism and Communications,
in cooperation with W&L’s Lee Memorial Journalism
Foundation and the Southern Newspaper Publishers’
Asociation (SNPA).

Seventy-six delegates from 11 states attended the
first convention, by 1941 official registration had sur-
passed the 500 mark, during the last 10 years the total

“In addition,

newspaper work,

Virginia’s largest radio news staff—
Home Edition of Radio Washing-
ton and Lee — gives Lexington,
Buena Vista and Rockbridge Coun-
ty their most complete daily news
coverage.

The broadcast Monday through
Friday from the studios on the third
floor of Reid Hall concludes the
programing on Lexington’s WREL
Radio and reaches an estimated 1,000
listeners.

 

It is a 15-minute report of not only
local but also top international, na-
tional, state and sports stories, and
comes at the end of the nightly,
two-hour Radio W&L program.

Combining classroom, laboratory
and extra-curricular activity, the
Home Edition staffers often break
stories several days before the week-
ly papers published in Lexington and
Buena Vista do.

Under city editor Maurice Fliess,

John K. Jennings

John Jennings
Plans Program
For Convention

John K. Jennings might well be
termed SIPA’s “organization man.”
Jennings, SIPA executive director
and professor of journalism and com-
munications at Washington and Lee.

An Official Since 1930

 

has exceeded 1,000 annually, and this year’s record-
breaking 1,200 representatives came from 352 publi-
cations of 188 schools in 11 states and the District of

Now the third largest scholastic press association in
nation, SIPA was an innovation in the fashion of
one authorized in 1869 by Robert E. Lee, when presi- |
dent of Washington College (now Washington and
Lee). Under Lee’s guidance, the college offered 50 press
scholarships, representing the first journalism instruc-
tion in the world.

The SNPA revived in 1921 this project which lan-
guished after Lee’s death, and subsequently the concept
of extending journalism instruction to Southern secon-
dary schools was envisioned.

SIPA, especially its criticism service, is now a major
undertaking for the professors of journalism and com-
munications at W&L, and the organization maintains
permanent offices on the third floor of Reid Hall, the
home of the journalism department.

Prof. Riegel said this week SIPA has grown to the
extent that it is now “one of the leading agencies for
encouraging interest in publications.”

the convention provides a unique

means of contact between professional newsmen and
secondary school teachers and students involved in
journalism,” he added. “The press association increases
the appreciation of high standards and good values of

enhances the audience of intelligent

newspaper readers, and introduces teachers to the uses SIPA maintains cillen in W&L’s
of publications for instructional purposes.”

W&L journalism students in inter-
mediate reporting (first semester
juniors) and advanced reporting
(second semester seniors) cover the
city and county seene, local law en-
forcement agencies, schools and edu-
cation in general, civic clubs and
organizations and sports.

This news, plus dispatches from
the Associated Press radio and “A”
wires, is rewritten by members of
each of the five nightly staffs in
order to produce a program of sound
format and consistent style.

Home Edition also broadcasts taped
interviews with persons in the news
and has editorials during the first
semester, when Prof. O. W. Riegel’s
seminar course in The Editorial is
in session.

Special Broadcasis
Thomas White is News Director

of Radio W&L this year, under
whom senior editors Bob Keefe, Don

 

sets up the newspaper, yearbook,
magazine and radio judging, the con-
vention’s 35 round-table discussions
and the master schedule of events.
He also formulates the program

and gives attention to the logistical} ©. W. Riegel,

chairman of the

problems confronting convention | Washington and Lee Department of
planning: locating meeting space and Journalism and Communications and
equipment, hiring caterers and the director of the Lee Memorial Jour-
like nalism Foundation, has been director

of SIPA since

its conception.

WAL Graduate 1930, four years after

Jennings graduated with a B.A.

 

Washington and Lee University Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, national pro-
fessional journalistic society, at the Washington and Lee Journalism |
Laboratory Press, located in Lexington, Virginia.

Prof. Riegel attended Lawrence
College and the University of Wis-
consin where he received his B.A.,

from Washington and Lee University
(Continued on Page 4)

 

Five-man

Awards Numerous

Heading the press staff is superin-
tendent Lauck, who bears the title
“America’s Baskerville Printer” as a
result of national recognition he
received for skillful use of Basker-
ville Type. Also, a few years ago
he was elected a fellow of the
Royal Society of Arts of London,
England.

Since his middle teens, Lauck has
been associated with the printing
business. Thirty-five of his 50 years
in printing have been at Washing-
ton and Lee

The list of awards won by Lauck
for his typographie technique also

4

The five-man crew operating
Washington and Lee's Journalism
Laboratory Press printed all official
materials for SIPA. including the
SIPA Ring-tum Phi Special and the
activities program

Yet this is but a minute portion of
the publications, notices and pam-
phiets published by the five print-
ers—C. Harold Lauck, Edward Back-
us, Edwin Walker, Don Tabbut and
Lynwood Pullen—each year

Working a standard 8 to 5 day, six
days a week, they are responsible for
turning out everything from the 200-
page Law Review to programs for
concerts given on the campus

 

 

 

Tabbut and Walker

work in the pressroom.

Print Shop Crew
Assists SIPA During Year

and at the University of Paris and
Columbia University he did graduate
study.
SDX AWARD
From 1918 to 1929 he worked on
several newspapers before accepting
a position as instructor of English
at Dartmouth College, 1927-29. In
1935, he won the first Sigma Delta
'Chi Distinguished Service Award
for journalism research.
From 1942-46,
with the Office

 

includes a Distinguished Service Ci-
tation from SIPA, “in recognition of
outstanding accomplishments in the
field of scholastic publishing and in
acknowledgement of devotion and ef-
fective service to journalism, te edu-
eation and te youth.”

Some of his work was selected for
the 1964 Commercial Printing of the
Year Exhibition of the American
Institute of Graphie Arts. The exhi-
bition. whieh traveled throughout
the nation, represented the work of
200 out of 3,000 printers whe

entered

he was on leave

beeame principal propaganda analyst
in 1942, regional editor for Central
and Southeastern Europe in 1943, and
Public Affairs Officer and Cultural
Altiache for the American Legation
at Budapest. Hungary, from 1945-46.
Board Member

Riege| was a member of the edi-
torial board of the Public Opinion
Quarterly from 1937-50. In 1950, he

was named director

some

of study for the

WAL Instructor

 

 

 

  
       

Edward Backus shep fereman
and teaches a course require of all
journalism majoras in ting and
graphic aris, formerly given 55
Lauck

Backu once operated hia own
print shop at his home in nearby
Buena Vista

When the time comes for pub-
lication of the semi-weekly Ring-
tum Phi, WEL's campus newspape?
which bears no off cor

 

  

 

tae paper:

anen Os

 

O. W. Riegel

i
bbut |

of War Information |
and Department of State where he

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
    

 

| his new volume

State Department in public opinion

lin,
Cultural Contacts Project in Bel-
gium for the Woodrow Wilson
School of International Affairs in
1951.

He is a member of the Overseas | of the New Propaganda,”

Press Club and a reserve officer in
the United States Information Agen-

 

research at West Germany and Ber- |

SIPA Plays Big Journalistic Role

 

Reid Hall,

Home Edition News Staff; State’s Largest,
Is Lexington’s Only Daily News Medium

Husat, Ralph Fuller and Bob Hudson,
Frank Fairchild and Randall Prior
work on alternate nights.

White instituted a special sports
show for the 1965-66 school year
which is on for five minutes four
nights a week, broadcast by Rich
Juterbock and Rick Berard. Under
White’s guidance, Radio W&L in
March broadcast Virginia’s first
“Trivia Bowl Contest.”

On November 3, Home Edition
gave what some listeners acclaimed
as one of the finest running accounts
of the Virginia general election at
both the state and local levels.

White, who directed the continu-
ous five-hour Presidential election
returns in 1964, organized the re-
porting procedure and had staffers
stationed in key precincts throughout
the county, while maintaining a 10-
man staff in the Reid Hall newsrooms
to edit copy from the AP wires.

Riegel Guides SIPA Convention

ternational Association for Mass
Research, composed of educators and

and he was director of the| researchers from both sides of the

Iron Curtain.

Riegel is the author of several
books, including “Crown of Glory,”
“Mobilizing for Chaos,” “The Story
and “The
Life of James J. Strang.”

He is married and has five chil-

cy. In 1957, he helped found the In-| dren,

 

SIPA Short Courses Are Directed
By Journalism Professor Davis

Paxton Davis, the Washington and
Lee journalism professor whose third
book appeared last fall, is directing
the SIPA short courses again this
year

“One of the Dark Places,” a widely
acclaimed novel about the efforts
to conquer scrub typhus in Burma
during World War H, is Davis’ see-
ond novel.

His first, “Two Soldiers,”
about the Second World War, was
published in 1956, and it was fol-
lowed by “The Battle of New Mar-
ket” (1963). a nonfiction work deal-
ing with the Civil War battle
which Virginia Military
eadets participated. He has also had
stories published by magazines in-

including Playbey.

also

Newspaper Background

A member of the WAL faculty
sinee 1953, Davis has worked on the
Riehmond (Va.) Times-Dispatch, the
Winston-Salem (N.C.) Journal and
Sentinel, and is currently book edi-
tor of The Roanoke ( Va.) Times. In
195! working for the Times-
Dicpaich, he award

of the Virginia Presa

} t
Wiis
won first piace

Association for

ne

 

in|
Institute |

 

 

     
 

 

series writing
_He was named, in 1956, a Fellow in|
: of the Bread Loaf Writers|
efice. a Vermoni [ite fary Gre
on wi lates the ex-/
ei ia hi
K © Wri
ive of W ton-Salem
i VMI in 1942
he in Werld War ii
ed in Th i, the setting fo

 

English Major

In 1949, he graduated from Johns
Hopkins University with an A.B. in
English. There he served as editor
of the yearbook for two years and
as columnist for the newspaper.

He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa
and Omicron Delta Kappa, honor so-
cities for scholarship and leadership,
respectively.

When Prof
leave of
Davis substituted
SIPA

He is chairman
Endowment which has
sponsored on the W&L campus such
writers as Katherine Anne Porter,
Robert Penn Warren. Edward Albee,

O.

absence

W. Riegel was on
in Paris in 1958,

as director of
of the Glasgow

Committee

William Humphrey and Karl Sha-
pire
Davis is married and has three

children

   
 
 
  
  
    
   
 

before =f ;

Paxton Davis
 

 

 

gg ngage

a

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

17 Publications Win SIPA Awards Trophies

Newspapers

Group I

(Enrollment 1500 or more)

Trophy Winner
Raiders’ Digest, J. E. B. Stuart
High School, Falls Church, Virginia.

First Place Award Group

The Jeffersonian, Thomas Jefferson
High School, Richmond, Virginia.

The Eagle, East Mecklenburg High
School, Charlotte, North Carolina.

The Chatterbox, George Washing-
ton High School, Danville, Virginia.

Wildcat, New Hanover High
School, Wilmington, North Carolina,

Highlander, McLean High School,
McLean, Virginia.

Hi-Rocket, Durham High School,
Durham, North Carolina.

The Star, Halifax County High
School, South Boston, Virginia.

Honor Award Group

Fair Facts, Fairfax High School,
Fairfax, Virginia.

The Sentry, Yorktown Senior High
School, Arlington, Virginia.

Edison Current, Edison
School, Alexandria, Virginia.

The Bookstrap, Charleston High
School, Charleston, West Virginia.

Wythe Ledger, George Wythe High
School, Richmond, Virginia.

Simmerings, St. Albans High
School, St. Albans, West Virginia.

Princess Anne Page, Princess Anne
High School, Virginia Beach, Vir-
ginia.

Krabba Highlight, Hampton High
School, Hampton, Virginia.

The High Times, E. C. Glass High
School, Lynchburg, Virginia.

A-Blast, Annandale High School,
Annandale, Virginia.

The Signal, Wakefield High School,
Arlington, Virginia.

The Holmespun, Holmes
School. Covington, Kentucky.

High

High

Achievement Award Group

Roundtable, Kellam High School,
Virginia Beach, Virginia.

Town Crier, Thomas Jefferson
High School, Alexandria, Virginia.

The Earle, Warwick High School,
Newport News, Virginia.

The Beacon, Newport News High
School, Newport News, Virginia.

Albermarle Highlight, Albemarle
High School, Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia.

Tribal Tales, Kecoughtan High
School, Hampton, Virginia.

Group IT

(Enrollment 1201 to 1500)

Trophy Winner

The Windjammer, Homer L. Fer-
guson High School, Newport News,
Virginia.

First Place Award Group

The Beacon, Woodrow Wilson High
School, Washington, D.C.

The Commentator, Douglas Free-
man High School, Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

Jaguar Journal, Falls Church High
School, Falls Church, Virginia.

The Hickory Twig, Claremont
Central High School, Hickory, North
Carolina.

Petersburg High Review, Peters-
burg High School, Petersburg, Vir-
ginia.

Honor Award Group

The Spokesman, Andrew Lewis
High School, Salem, Virginia.

The Sabre, William Fleming High
School, Roanoke, Virginia.

Le Journal, Huguenot High School,
Richmond, Virginia.

The Shipmate, Cradock High
School, Portsmouth, Virginia.

The Sentinel, Fort Hill High
School, Cumberland, Maryland.

Tiger Rag, Groveton High School
Alexandria, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group
The Statesman, Patrick Henry
High School, Roanoke, Virginia.
Monocle, John Marshall High
School, Richmond, Virginia.
The Panthianette, Hermitage High
School, Richmond, Virginia.

Group III

(Enrollment 901 to 1200)

Trophy Winner

Cavalier, Dorman Senior High
School, Spartanburg, South Caroli-
na

First Place Award Group

The Communique, Mancheste
High School, Richmond, Virginia.

The Lanetime, Lane High School,
Charlottesville, Virginia

The Green Lights, Junius H. Rose
High School, Greenville, North Car-
olina

The Southerner, Henry
High School, Atlanta Georgia

The Loudoun Raider, Loudoun
County High School, Leesburg, Vir-
ginia.

Grady

Hi-News, Edmunds High School,
Sumter, South Carolina.

The Highland Fling,
Springs High School,
Springs, Virginia.

Honor Award Group

The Little Virginian, Virginia
High School, Bristol, Virginia.

Knight Letter, Cave Spring High
School, Roanoke, Virginia.

The Hawkeye, Oakhaven High
School, Memphis, Tennessee.

The Cavalier, East Rutherford
High School, Forest City, North
Carolina.

The Tornado Times, Richlands
High School, Richlands, Virginia.

The Barker, Martinsville High
School, Martinsville, Virginia.

Jefferson News, Jefferson Senior
High School, Roanoke Virginia.

Achievement Award Group

The Patriot, Alleghany County
High School, Covington, Virginia.

The Gavel, John Randolph Tucker
High School, Richmond, Virginia.

The Sentinel, Liberty High School,
Bedford, Virginia.

The Eyrie, Airport High School,
Columbia, South Carolina.

The Quill, Thomas Dale High
School, Chester, Virginia.

The Hilltopper, Rutherfordton-
Spindale High School, Rutherfordton,
North Carolina.

The Reveillier, George Washington
High School, Charleston, West Vir-
ginia.

Smoke Signals, Henrico
School, Richmond, Virginia.

The Medallion, Meadowbrook High
School, Chesterfield County, Virginia.

The Talon, York High School,
Yorktown, Virginia.

Indian Smoke Signal, Stafford
High School, Falmouth, Virginia.

Ye Royal Scribe, Prince George
High School, Prince George, Virginia.

The Fike Hi-Zette, Ralph L. Fike
Senior High School, Wilson, North
Carolina.

The Hi-Lights, Ragsdale High
School, Jamestown, North Carolina.

The Courier, East Henderson High
School, Flat Rock, North Carolina.

Group IV
(Enrollment 601 to 900)

Trophy Winner
The Trojan, Tunstall High School,
Dry Fork, Virginia.

First Place Award Group

Proconian, Chapel Hill High
School, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

High Notes, Hartsville High School,
Hartsville, South Carolina.

The Pepergram, Culpeper County
High School, Culpeper, Virginia.

The Westminster Bi-Line, West-
minster Schools, Atlanta, Georgia.

Honor Award Group
Marionette, Marion Senior High
School, Marion, Virginia.
Wa-Co-Hi-Lights, Warren County
High School, Front Royal, Virginia.

Highland
Highland

High

The Franklin Eagle, Franklin
County High School, Rocky Mount,
Virginia.

The Blazer, Cedar Grove High
School, Cedar Grove, West Vir-
ginia.

The Southerner, Lee-Davis High
School, Mechanicsville, Virginia.

The Acorn, Southern Garrett Jr.-
Sr. High School, Oakland, Maryland.

The Crest, Northern High School,
Durham, North Carolina.

 

The Talon, Abingdon High School,

Abingdon, Virginia.

The Riddle, Morgan County High
School, Hartselle, Alabama.

The Spark, Patrick Henry High
School, Ashland, Virginia.

Stinger, Herndon High School,
Herndon, Virginia.

The Loudoun Valley Viking, Lou-
doun Valley High School, Purcell-
ville, Virginia.

The Amberite, Amherst County
High School, Amherst, Virginia.

The Tattle Tale, Blacksburg High

School, Blacksburg, Virginia.

The Trumpet, Hillsville High
School, Hillsville, Virginia.

The Marionette, Marion High

School, Marion, North Carolina.
The North Winds, Northside High
School, Roanoke, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group
The Searletier, Lexington High
School, Lexington, Virginia.
Rebel Review, Forest Hill High
School, Jackson, Mississippi.
Gold and Purple Glimpses, Way-
nesboro High School, Waynesboro,

Virginia
The Bee Line, Brookville

School, Lynchburg, Virginia.

High

High School, Christianburg, Vir-

 

ginia
Group V
(Enrollment 401 to 600)
Trophy Winner

Spokesman, Cheraw High School,
| Cheraw, South Carolina

 

Demon Highlights, Christianburg,

First Place Award Group

The Yellow Jacket, Osbourn Senior
High School, Manassas, Virginia.

The Tornado, McCallie School,
Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Peanut Picker, Suffolk High
School, Suffolk, Virginia.

The Chat, Chatham High School,
Chatham, Virginia.

Bayonet, Augusta Military Aca-
demy, Fort Defiance, Virginia.

Honor Award Group

County Crier, Floyd County High
School, Floyd, Virginia.

The Rebel, Louisa County High
School, Mineral, Virginia.

The Acorn, Radford High School,
Radford, Virginia.

The Royal Dan, Dan River High
School, Ringgold, Virginia.

The Kablegram, Staunton Military
Academy, Staunton, Virginia.

Page Pioneer, Page County High
School, Shenandoah, Virginia.

The Pig’s Tale, Smithfield High
School, Smithfield, Virginia.

The Shield, Riverheads High
School, Staunton, Virginia.
Achievement Award Group

The Statesman, Randolph-Henry
High School, Charlotte Court House,

Virginia.

The Monitor, Bluestone High
School, Skipwith, Virginia.

The Musketeer, Hargrave Military
Academy, Chatham, Virginia.

The Tatler, Luray High School,
Luray, Virginia.

Wren Echoes, Wren High School,
Piedmont, South Carolina.

The Wither-Wane, George Wythe
High School, Wytheville, Virginia.

Gamilacad, Georgia Military Aca-
demy, College Park, Georgia.

The Blarion, James Blair High
School, Williamsburg, Virginia.

The Bow Wow, Brunswick High
School, Lawrenceville, Virginia.

Tiger Tales, Blue Ridge High
School, Greer, South Carolina.

The Falcon’s Cry, Charles E. Jor-
dan High School, Durham, North

Carolina.
Group VI

(Enrollment 400 or fewer)

Trophy Winner
The Match, The Collegiate Schools,
Richmond, Virginia.

First Place Award Group

The Shearings, St. Agnes Episcopal
School, Alexandria, Virginia.

Fluco Hi Quill, Fluvanna County
High School, Carysbrook, Virginia.

The Seahorse, Christchurch School,
Christchurch, Virginia.

Green-Briers, Greenbrier Military
School, Lewisburg, West Virginia.

The Crossette, Holy Cross High
School, Lynchburg, Virginia.

The Meteor, Virginia Episcopal
School, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Paw Print, Peabody Demonstration
School, Nashville, Tennessee.

Honor Award Group

The Colonel, Altavista High School,
Altavista, Virginia.

Hill Topies, Rock Hill Academy,
Charlottesville, Virginia.

The Chevron, Benedictine High
School, Richmond, Virginia.

Trojan Trumpet, Midlothian High
School, Midlothian, Virginia.

The Student Prints, Wadesboro
High School, Wadesboro, North Car-
olina.

C. Q., Fishburne Military School,
Waynesboro, Virginia.

The Round-Up, Rich Valley High
School, Saltville, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group

E.HLS. Chronicle, Episcopal High
School, Alexandria, Virginia.

Blue 'n’ Gold Spotlight, Independ-
ence High School, Independence,
Virginia.

Bridge Bulletin, Natural Bridge
High School, Natural Bridge Station,
Virginia,

The Oak Leaf, Carolton Oaks
School, Norfolk, Virginia.

The Belfry, Norfolk Academy,
Norfolk, Virginia.

Mimeographed
Trophy Winner
The Mountaineer, Clifton Forge
High School, Clifton Forge Virginia.
First Place Award Group

The Jay Journal, Joelion High
School, Joelton, Tennessee

The Ram's Horn, Blackstone High
School, Blackstone, Virginia

Honor Award Group

The Trail Blazer, Lebanon High
School, Lebanon, Virginia.
Leeword, R. E. Lee High School,

Staunton, Virginia

North Star, North Mecklenburg,
High School, Huntersville, North
Carolina

The Gardener, Garden

Oakwood, Virginia

Vox Ducis, William Campbell High
School, Naruna, Virginia

The Focus, Prince Edward Aca-

| demy, Farmville, Virginia

 

High
| Richmond, Virginia

| School, Biacksburg, Virginia

Hilltop News, Bland High School,
Bland, Virginia.

Roundtable, James River
School, Buchanan, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group
The Black and Gold, Buffalo Gap
High School, Swoope, Virginia.
Oriole Chirps, Pulaski High School,
Pulaski, Virginia.
Dispatcher, Crewe
School, Crewe, Virginia.
Greenway Grapevine, St. Anne’s
School, Charlottesville, Virginia.

Yearbooks

Group I
(Enrollment 1500 or more)

Trophy Winner
The Haliscope, Halifax County
High School, South Boston, Virginia.

First Place Award Group

Hanoverian, New Hanover High
School, Wilmington, North Carolina.

The Talon, Frank W. Cox High
School, Virginia Beach, Virginia.

The Grenadier, Yorktown High
School, Arlington, Virginia.

The Warwick, Warwick High
School, Newport News, Virginia.

East Wind, East Mecklenburg High
School, Charlotte, North Carolina.

Cavalier, George Washington High
School, Danville, Virginia.

Honor Award Group

The Monticello, Thomas Jefferson
High School, Richmond, Virginia.

The Talon, Edison High School,
Alexandria, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group

Tomahawk, Kecoughtan High
School, Hampton, Virginia.

Clan, McLean High School, Mc-
Lean, Virginia.

Antenna, Annandale High School,
Annandale, Virginia.

The Mariner, Homer L. Ferguson
High School, Newport News, Vir-
ginia

High

High

The Crest, E. C. Glass High School,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

The Anchor, Newport News High
School, Newport News, Virginia.

Group II

(Enrollment 1101 to 1500)
Trophy Winner
Historian, Douglas Freeman High
School, Richmond, Virginia.
First Place Award Group
The 1965 Trucker, Churchland
High School, Chesapeake, Virginia.
Hickory Log, Claremont Central
High School, Hickory, North Caro-
lina.
Highlander, Highland Springs High
School, Highland Springs, Virginia.
The Viking, North Mecklenburg
High School, Huntersville, North
Carolina.
Chancellor, George Wythe High
School, Richmond, Virginia.
The Talon, Huguenot High School,
Richmond, Virginia.
The Colonel, William Fleming
High School, Roanoke, Virginia.
The Pioneer, Andrew Lewis High
School, Salem, Virginia.
Marshallite, John Marshall High
School, Richmond, Virginia.
Honor Award Group
Chain, Lane High School, Char-
lottesville, Virginia.
Jaguar, Falls Church High School,
Falls Church, Virginia.
The Admiral, Cradock High School,
Portsmouth, Virginia.
Peerage, Prince George High
School, Prince George, Virginia.
The Tornado, Richlands High
School, Richlands, Virginia.
Hi-Ways, Edmunds High School,
Sumter, South Carolina.
Falcon, York High School, York-
town, Virginia.
Skyline, Waynesboro High School,
Waynesboro, Virgina.
Achievement Award Group
Peer, Albermarle High School,
Charlottesville, Virginia.
Marauder, Oakhaven High School.
Memphis, Tennessee.

Group III
(Enrollment 801 to 1100)

Trophy Winner
Orator, Henry Grady High School,
Atlanta, Georgia

First Place Award Group
The Heritage, Liberty High School,
Bedford, Virginia.
The Virginian, Virginia High
School, Bristol, Virginia
The Reflector, Thomas Dale High
School, Chester, Virginia

 

The Retrospect, Hartsville High |
School, Hartsville, South Carolina, |

The Witness, John Randolph Tuck- |
er High School, Richmond, Virginia

Memoir, Manchester High School,

Honor Award Group

Pow Wow, Blacksburg

High |

The Patriot, George Washington
High School, Charleston, West Vir-
ginia,

Sceptre, Meadowbrook High
School, Chesterfield County, Vir-
ginia.

Alcova, Alleghany County High
School, Covington, Virginia.

Lord Loudoun, Loudoun County
High School, Leesburg, Virginia.

The Mavahi, Martinsville High
School, Martinsville, Virginia.

The Spartanian, Drewry Mason
High School, Ridgeway, Virginia.

The Animo, Franklin County High
School, Rocky Mount, Virginia.

Totem Pole, Henrico High School,
Richmond, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group

The Skyliner, Rutherfordton-Spin-
dale High School, Rutherfordton,
North Carolina.

Leeway, R. E. Lee High School,
Staunton, Virginia.

Memories, Broadway High School,
Broadway, Virginia.

The Demon, Christiansburg High
School, Christiansburg, Virginia.

The Polaris, Northern High School,
Durham, North Carolina.

Indian Legend, Stafford High
School, Falmouth, Virginia.

The Highlander, East Henderson
= School, Flat Rock, North Caro-

ina.

Hylander, Marion High School,
Marion, North Carolina.

The Highlander, Southern Garrett
Jr.-Sr. High School, Oakland, Mary-
land.

Acorn, Jefferson Sr. High School,
Roanoke, Virginia.

The North Star, Northside High
School, Roanoke, Virginia.

Oriole, Pulaski High School, Pu-
laski, Virginia.

Group IV
(Enrollment 601 to 800)

Trophy Winner
Black Swan, William Byrd High
School, Vinton, Virginia.

First Place Award Group
Saga, Loudoun Valley High School,
Purcellville, Virginia.
The Voice, Patrick Henry High
School, Ashland, Virginia.

Honor Award Group
The Bison, Floyd County High
School, Floyd, Virginia.
Chieftain, Hillsville High School,
Hillsville, Virginia.
Trails, Cedar Grove High School,
Cedar Grove, West Virginia.

Achievement Award Group

Hillife, Chapel Hill High School,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

Rampage, Havelock High School,
Havelock, North Carolina.

Hiad, Tunstall High School, Dry
Fork, Virginia.

Buzzer, Brookville High School,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

Hornet, Herndon High School,
Herndon, Virginia.

The Archway, Dan River High
School, Ringgold, Virginia.
‘65 Hurricane, Marion Senior High
School, Marion, Virginia.

Group V
(Enrollment 401 to 600)

Trophy Winner

The Prowler, Piedmont High

School, Monroe, North Carolina.
First Place Award Group

Ham, Smithfield High School,

Smithfield, Virginia.
Honor Award Group

Puffs and Patches, Covington High
School, Covington, Virginia.

The Colonnade, Culpeper High
School, Culpeper, Virginia.

The Talon, Charles E. Jordan High
Schol, Durham, North Carolina.

Mirror, Warren County High
School, Front Royal, Virginia.

The Pioneer, Lebanon High School,
Lebanon, Virginia.

The Confederate, Lee-Davis High
School, Mechanicsville, Virginia.

Oak Leaf, Radford High School,
Radford, Virginia.

The Varinian, Varina High School,
Richmond, Virginia.

Golden Link, Bluestone
School, Skipwith, Virginia.

Bee Hive, James Blair High School,
Williamsburg, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group

High

The Beacon, Abingdon High
School, Abingdon, Virginia.
Castletonian, Castlewood High

School, Castlewood, Virginia

Cavalier, Chatham High School,
Chatham, Virginia.

Riparian, Greensville County High
School, Emporia, Virginia

Crystal, Lexington High School,
Lexington, Virginia

The Core, Louisia County
School, Mineral, Virginia

Wrenicycle, Wren High School,
Piedmont, South Carolina

The Page,

High

Page County High

| School, Shenandoah, Virginia

Leaves of Memory, Park View
High Schol, South Hill, Virginia.

Colosseum, MRiverheads High
School, Staunton, Virginia.

Peanut, Suffolk High School, Suf-
folk, Virginia.

The Echo, George Wythe High
School, Wytheville, Virginia.

Group VI
(Enrollment 400 or fewer)

Trophy Winner

Trojan, Midlothian High School,
Midlothian, Virginia.

First Place Award Group

Choo Choo, R. B. Worthy High
School, Saltville, Virginia,

The General, William Campbell
High School, Naruna, Virginia.

Bull Dog, Brunswick High School,
Lawrenceville, Virginia.

Fluvannual, Fluvanna County
High School, Carysbrook, Virginia.

Clipper, Mathews High School,
Mathews, Virginia.

The Alleghanian, Clifton Forge
High School, Clifton Forge, Virginia.

The Ivy, Blackstone High School,
Blacksone, Virginia.

Honor Award Group

The Railroader, Crewe
School, Crewe, Virginia.

The Lasso, Rich Valley High
School, Saltville, Virginia.

The Tiger Tales, Wadesboro High
School, Wadesboro, North Carolina.

The Nuntius, Altavista High
School, Altavista, Virginia.

The Garden Echo, Garden High
School, Oakwood, Virginia.

The Talon, Clarke County High
School, Berryville, Virginia.

Mountain Echo, New Castle High
School, New Castle, Virginia.

The Highland, Luray High School,
Luray, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group

Devil’s Diary, Independence High
School, Independence, Virginia.

The Vallescope, Valley High
School, Hot Springs, Virginia.

The Kanawhan, James River High
School, Buchanan, Virginia.

Hilltopper, Grange Hall
School, Moseley, Virginia.

Private

Trophy Winner

The Torch, The Collegiate Schools,
Richmond, Virginia.

First Place Award Group
The Recall, Augusta Military Aca-
demy, Fort Defiance, Virginia.
The Pennant, McCallie School,
Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Honor Award Group

The Cadet, Benedictine High
School, Richmond, Virginia.

The Cadence, Hargrave Military
School, Chatham, Virginia.

The Lynx, Westminster Schools,
Atlanta, Georgia.

The Lamb's Tail, St. Agnes Epis-
copal School, Alexandria, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group

The Saint, St. Anne’s School, Char-
lottesville, Virginia.

Grenadier, Georgia Military Aca-
demy, College Park, Georgia.

The Brier Patch, Greenbrier Mili-
tary School, Lewisburg, West Vir-
ginia.

Blue and Gold, Staunton Military
Academy, Staunton, Virginia.

The Acorn, Carolton Oaks School,
Norfolk, Virginia.

Taps, Fishburne Military School,
Waynesboro, Virginia.

Quill Pen, Salem Military Aca-
a Winston-Salem, North Caro-

High

High

Cavalier, Prince Edward Academy,
Farmville, Virginia.

Magazines
Group I

(Enrollment 1200 or More)

Trophy Winner
Penman, Washington-Lee
School, Arlington, Virginia

First Place Award Group

Jefferson Jottings, Thomas Jeffer-
son High School, Alexandria, Vir-
ginia

Pendulum, Wakefield High School.
Arlington, Virginia.

The Cardinal Talent Scout, George
Washington High School, Danville.
Virginia,

Paw Print, Falls Church High
School, Falls Church, Virginia
Cadence, J. E. B. Stuart
School, Falls Church, Virginia

The Critic, E. C. Glass High Schoo
Lynchburg, Virginia

Tartan, McLean High School, Me-
| Lean, Virginia
The Helm, Homer L. Ferguson
|'High School, Newport News, Vir.
| ginia

i (Continued on page 4)

High

High

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

Columnist Says They Are Horrified

 

  

hind this?

Questioning brings a rash of unprintable answers, but the general
idea is that it’s nice to have girls on the campus for a change. There is also
a widespread feeling that it might be nice to meet a SIPA girl or three.

Sponsors Horrified

This tendency is noticed by the

SIPA Brings Varied Reactions :
From Everyone But Sponsors

By WEBB DeHOFF

During the short time that the SIPA young ladies grace the Washington
and Lee campus each spring, there is a noticeable rash of fresh shaves and
Sunday tweeds among the W&L student body. What is the motivation be-

girls with mixed emotions, and by

their sponsors with something approaching horror. At least that’s what

it seems to be.

No sponsors were available for extended interviews, since most turned
red and spluttered at questions like “How would you like for your girls

to meet some nice W&L gentlemen and maybe...” One sponsor reportedly
used her umbrella on a W&L man she found making advances toward

her girls.

The girls, however, were quite willing to be interviewed. They were
only too happy to give their opinions of W&L men, W&L’s campus, and

Lexington.

Restaurants or Not?

Views of Lexington varied according to the sleeping accommodations
acquired here and the number of dented fenders picked up on the spacious
local streets. Most ranged from “stuffy” to “ECCH” to “How can I find
a decent, uncrowded restaurant?” This last answer brands one as a SIPA
novice, as veterans know that such are non-existent.

The W&lL campus elicits such stimulating and original comments as
“GEE, you sure got pretty buildings,” “Where's the nearest lavatory?,”
and “Gosh, look at all the college men.”

Opinions of W&L men are sometimes hard to get, since a young lady’s
feelings are often not to be revealed. The consensus is either “I wish they'd
leave us alone” or “I wish they wouldn't leave us alone,” making it a game
for the W&L man to sort the first category from the last.

 

Dr. Boyle, Leverty Conduct
Typical Short Course Sessions

Typical of the 35 short courses
offered to delegates at the South-
ern Interscholastic Press Association
were those taught Friday by Dr.
Regis Boyle and William G. Lever-
ty.

Dr. Boyle, an instructor at Wash-
ington’s Woodrow Wilson High
School, taught the course on year-
book layout and offered delegates ad-
vice on how to make their annuals

 

William Leverty

 

more artistic as well as more read-
able.

“The center is dead,” she caution-
ed, while emphasizing the utility of
white space as a decorative feature
not to be avoided.

Among other hints offered by Dr.
Boyle were the suggestions that all
faces of type for the annual be in-
troduced in the first portion of the
book, and that similar layouts not be
used on opposite pages.

Readability Stressed

Leverty, the assistant managing
editor of the Richmond Times-
Dispatch, each year teaches the
course on newspaper makeup.

One of the many professional
journalists who participate in SIPA
each year, Leverty told those in at-
tendance at his course that “read-
ability, not beauty” is the most im-
portant aspect of newspaper make-
up.

He stressed that particular atten-
tion must be paid to the use of cuts
because, as he put it, “More tricks
(of makeup) can be done with
pictures than copy.”

Leverty'’s talk was illustrated by
a series of slides taken from var-
ious high school papers from this
area.

 

Where Did ‘SIPA Weather’ Go?

At 2:07 p.m. Friday, the bitterest
of all enemies for SIPA confronted
the 37th convention and conquered.

The enemy was rain and it
brought about the usual umbrellas,
raincoats, plastic scarves, and sur-
rying from one class to another
on the Washington and Lee cam-
pus.

Actually, the sight is not a

usual one for SIPA.
Reports in 1964 were that every
convention—there had been 34
until that time—had been greeted
by sunny weather.

But a deluge dominated that 35th
convention.

Last year, when the convention
was moved up to the first week-
end in April, the weather was
pleasant—excepting an occasional
shower.

Until early Friday afternoon,
SIPA  weather-watchers were
were hopeful that the cloud cover

cate its 1964 performance.

As the rain began falling, the dis-
couraged group retired to a se-
cluded room in Reid Hall and
vowed never to emerge until what
Prof. O. W. Riegel has tagged
“SIPA weather” returns to Lex-
ington.

 

Journalists Need Courage,
Swensson Tells SIPA Meet

(Continued from page 1)
tor of The Wall Street Journal's
Newspaper Fund, Inc., in 1961.

Formerly a Minnesota newspaper
executive, he is known nationally
for his interest in upgrading the
journalism profession through the
establishment and expansion of effec-
tive high school and college jour-
nalism education programs.

A director of The Newspaper Fund,
he administers a nationwide pro-
gram designed to encourage and de-
velop better talent for journalism
The Journal organized the fund in
1958 and provides annual grants
ef approximately $250,000 to support
the pregram

Swensson, 59, a native of Woburn,
Moss. was graduated cum laude
from Gustavus Adolphus College in
1928, did graduate work at the uni-
versities of Minnesota and Stock-
holm. and in 1960, Gustavus Adol-
shus awarded him a doctor of hu-
mane letters degree.

 

Managing Editor

At the age of 15, he began his
journalism career for a Minnesota
weekly and advanced to the position
of Minneapolis Tribune managing
editor from 1950 through 1955, and
Minneapolis Star managing editor
from 1956 to 1961, when he joined
The Newspaper Fund

Swensson has lectured at scores
af schools and departments of jour-
nalism, college and high school press
conferences other than SIPA, con-
ventions of newspaper editors and
publishers

Also active in civic affairs, he
past president of the Minnesota As-
sociated Press and the Minnesota
professional chapter of Sigma Delta
Chi, a fermer director of the AP
Managing Editors Association and a
former member ef the American So-
ciety of Newspaper Editors

Swensson, his wife, Mildred, and
their two children live in Princeton

N.d

is

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

Bob Dunn sketches an SIPA delegate during his address Friday in Doremus gymnasium. He depicts her darning

a sock for her husband-to-be.

 

William Grigg Says Specialty Writing
Is Now Commonplace in Journalism

By MICKEY PHILLIPS

Emphasizing the significance in-
depth reporting adds to a general
newsstory, Washington Evening Star
science writer William T. M. Grigg
told a Lee Chapel audience this
morning that specialty reporting has
become common-place in today’s
newspapers.

“The days of the classic reporter
are over,” Grigg said. “More and
more, readers are demanding stricter
attention to detail, background, and
thought provocation. They want
more than just the surface of the
story.”

Mistakes Overcome

“To get where we are now, how-
ever, we've had to solve many prob-
lems,” Grigg said. “In the beginning,
we weren't sure of ourselves, which
showed clearly in our _ reporting.

Mistakes of fact were made frequent-
_—

Grigg then said that investigation
of projects, reading learned journals,
and traveling to the scene have
helped in the rapid dissolution of er-
rors and the growth of the field.

Own Assignments

We've come so far that we can't
wait to get assignments from our
editors,” Grigg said. “Generally, the
editors give us the green light to
go ahead with projects of our own.”

“This is the way it should be,”
Grigg said.

Grigg pointed out that the Eve-
ning Star now has expert writers
covering Communist affairs, Latin
American countries, and science, and
one who is an instant expert on
anything.

“He's the one who gets tapped for

 

the last-minute job,” Grigg said.

 

Agronsky Sees U. S. Land War

(Continued from page 1)

interfering in the internal affairs
of other nations whenever we feel
like it simply goes, moreover, against
the principles of the American peo-
ple.

Instead Agronsky suggested that
the U.S. position in Viet Nam is
not nearly so hopeless when the
history of American foreign policy
since World War II is considered.
He noted a number of instances in
which the American government has
reversed its course after setting a
policy, including attempts just after
the war to drive the Russians out
of the U.N., switching its backing
from one group to another in the
Dominican Republican crisis, aban-
donment of the NATO Multilateral
Fleet concept in Europe, and with-
drawal from the Bay of Pigs crisis,
And after each of these changes of
policy, Agronsky noted, “the Re-
publie survived.”

Comparing American policy in the

i war to a man shouting down a well
/ and able to hear his voice, Agronsky

over Lexington would not dupli- | #84in quoted Sen. Fulbright, who

said, “What is truly unwise is to
fail to have the courage to change

/a policy that is wrong.”

 

Agronsky criticized the doctrine
of infallibility of foreign policy by
asking, “Since when is it wrong to
ask if our country may be wrong?”

There are no perfect, absolute,
answers, he said, but he suggested
that a feeling of tolerence and re-
spect among men and nations and
a belief in reason rather than force
as an answer to problems may at
least be the road to hope.

Agronsky’s 26 years in broadcast
journalism have been divided be-
tween ABC (14 years), NBC (10
years) and now CBS, where he
worked since April, 1964, as a Wash-
ington correspondent.

 

Mrs. Ruby Norris Elected
Advisory Group Chairman

Mrs. Ruby L. Norris of George
Wythe High School in Richmond,
Va., was elected chairman of the
SIPA Advisory Committee for
1966-67 during the Advisor's Lunch-
eon Friday in Evans Dining Hall.

She succeeds Mrs. James D. Hein-
line of Radford (Va.) High School
as chairman of the 18-member com-
mittee which advises SIPA on
policy matters.

 

Grigg advised his audience to seek
a broad education, to challenge ideas,
and question answers.
“Read, become informed, and ex-
amine,” he said.
W&L Graduate

Grigg, a native of Washington, D.C.
graduated from Washington and Lee
University in 1956.

He returned to Washington as a
writer for The Star thereafter, went
to work later with Science Service,
and finally became science editor of
The Star several years ago.

 

John Jennings
Plans Program
For Convention

(Continued from page 2)

in 1956 where he was senior edi-
tor of Home Edition, the student-
operated radio broadcast, and execu-
tive producer of Kaleidoscope, the
series of weekly programs designed
to explore and develop the creative
use of the broadcasting medium. Last
summer he pursued graduate study
at Stanford University.

In 1956, he received the Sigma
Delta Chi Outstanding Journalism
Award.

Worked for WDBJ

His experience with the radio
medium is extensive. After gradua-
tion from W&L, he worked for
WDBJ radio in Roanoke, Va., and—
while serving in the U.S. Army—
was involved in the Armed Forces
Network broadcasting from Stutt-
gart, Germany, in 1956-58.

In 1958, he returned to WDBJ and
the following year became instruc-
tor and director of the Communica-
tions Laboratory at Washington and
Lee.

During the 1964 Presidential elec-
tion, Jennings was placed in charge
of gathering Virginia's returns for
the Columbia Broadcasting System.

Presently, he is engaged in es-
tablishing an FM station in Reid
Hall, to be controlled and operated

 

by W&L students under his super-
Vision.

Consideration
Of Cartooning
Is Suggested

(Continued from page 1)

with a chalk moustache and beard to
correspond with the character in his
sketch.

Among other sketches he did were
the effect of inherited genes on hu-
man facial characteristics, a WAC
taking a bath while wearing her
helmet, and another of his syndicated
subjects, “Little Iodine,” saying, “Hi,
SIPA!”

Dunn also told the delegates that
cartooning, which he said has en-
joyed an illustrious career, is be-
ginning to penetrate more thoroughly
the television industry and advertis-
ing. He urged potential artists to
consider cartooning as a field.

890 Newspapers
Dunn is probably best known for
his two cartoon features, “They'll
Do It Every Time” and “Little Io-
dine,” which are distributed to more
than 800 newspapers by King fea-

tures Syndicate.

Dunn attended St. Anselm’s Col-
lege in Manchester, N. H., where he
first became interested in cartooning.
Afterwards, he spent three years at
the Art Students’ League in New
York City.

In 1933, Dunn joined Hearst's
International News Service as a cub
reporter. Six months later, he began
cartooning with King Features Syn-
dicate. He allied himself with Jimmy
Hatlo and Milt Goss, the two car-
toonists whose work, he says, influ-
enced him most. He worked closely
with Hatlo and succeeded him when
he died in 1963.

Over the years, Dunn has had two
television programs, “Face to Face”
“Quick on the Draw,” and has filled
numerous speaking engagements.
He is also a member of the famed
New York theatrical club, The
Lambs.

 

Two Girls And Three Boys

In Less Intense Campaign
(Continued from Page 1)

organizer of the Greenville Bipart-
isan Forum.

Patterson, who put up _ posters
throughout Lexington, is a rising
junior at Ashland, Va.’s, Patrick
Henry High School. A native of
Laurens, S. C., Patterson has lived
in Ashland for three years. He is
currently serving as co-editor of
his high school paper, The Spark,
and will be editor-in-chief next year.
This is his second year as an SIPA
delegate.

Editors for 1966-67

Miss Belding is a student at Crad-
ock High School in Portsmouth, Va.
Besides journalism, her interests
include speech and dramatics. A vet-
eran worker on her high school’s an-
nual, she has been chosen editor of
the publication for the 1966-67 school
year.

Brogden is a junior at Durham
High School in Durham, N.C. A
member of the Quill and Scroll So-
ciety, he has been chosen editor of
next year’s edition of his school’s
paper, the Hi-Rocket. He is inter-
ested in sports, having served two
years as head football and head
basketball manager.

A student at Newport News, Va.
High School, Miss Althans is one of
the few candidates for SIPA presi-
dent to have worked largely on her
school’s literary magazine. She is
currently serving as assistant edi-
tor for the magazine.

352 Publications Enter SIPA Competition

(Continued from page 3)

The Plough, Warwick High School,
Newport News, Virginia.

Educator, Douglas Freeman High
School, Richmond, Virginia.

The Statesman, George Wythe
High School, Richmond, Virginia.

Quill, Patrick Henry High School,
Roanoke, Virginia

The Inkslinger, Andrew Lewis
High School, Salem, Virginia.
Heritage, James Madison High

School, Vienna, Virginia.

Honer Award Group

Fall-Out, Annandale High School,
Annandale, Virginia.

Labyrinth, T. C. Williams
School, Alexandria, Virginia .

Matrix, Fairfax High School, Fair-
fax, Virginia

Seafarer, Hampton High School,
Hampton, Virginia

Leaves, Claremont Central High
Schoo!, Hickory, North Carolina.

Launchings, Newport News High
School, Newport News, Virginia

The Log. Cradeck High School,
Portemouth, Virginia

The Seroll, Hermitage High School,
Richmond, Virginia

Cavalier Folio, Princ:

High

« Anne High

i School, Virginia Beach, Virginia

 

Achievement Award Greoup
The Erudite, Edison High School,
Alexandria, Virgina.
The Galaxy, Halifax County High
School, South Boston, Virginia.

Group II

(Enrollment fewer than 1200)

Trophy Winner
Acorn, Jefferson Senior
School, Roanoke, Virginia
First Place Award Group
Spectrum, St. Agnes Episcopal
School, Alexandria, Virginia
Collage, Chapel Hill High School,
Chapel Hill, Nerth Carolina
Bumblebee, Lane High
Charlottesville, Virginia
The Squire, Thomas

High

School,

Dale High

| School, Chester, Virginia

Ex Cathedra, Virginia Episcopal
School, Lynchburg, Virginia

| @nia

Record, R. E. Lee High School,
Staunton, Virginia
Eboracum, York High School.

Yorktown, Virginia

Honor Award Group
The Review, Altavista High Schoo!

| Altavista, Virginia

 

The Orator, Patrick Henry High!
School, Ashland, Virginia.

Embryo, Westminster Schools, At- |
lanta, Georgia.
Les Belles’ Lettres, St. Anne's,
School, Charlottesville, Virginia.

Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Brogue, Highland Springs High |
School, Highland Springs, Virginia. |

Flame, The Collegiate Schools,
Richmond, Virginia

Academe, Salem Academy, Wins-
ton-Salem, North Carolina.

a
Radio
Trophy Winner
Wolverine Turntable, Andrew

| Lewis High School, Salem, Virginia,
The Argonaut, McCallie School, |

First Place Award Group
Lee Journal, R. E. Lee
School, Staunton, Virginia
Student Program, Ralph L. Fike
Senior High School, Wilson, North
Carolina
Honor Award Group
George Washington High School

High

| Seminar, George Washington High

Achievement Award Group

The Sleeping Giant, Amberst
County High School, Amherst, Vir-
ginia

Knight's Bard, Henry Grady High
School, Atlanta, Georgia

Monarch's Muse, Meadowbrook
High School, Chesterfield County,
Virginia

The Pathfinder, Lebanon

Scheol Virginia

Garden's Budding Authors, Gar-
den High Sehool, Oakwood, Virginia
Aca-

i

High

Lebanon

Scimitar, Siaunion Military
demy, Staunton, Virginia.

School. Charleston, West Virginia
Hickory High Speaks, Claremont
Central High School, Hickery, North
Carolina

We, the Yeung People, Warwick
High School, Newport News, Vir-
ginia

Achievement Award Group

Ins and Outs, Chapel Hill High
School. Chape! Hill, North Carolina.

Krabba Karavan, Hampton High
School, Hampton, Virginia
Raider on the Air, Loudoun Coun-
High Sehoo!, Leesburg, Virginia
News and Views, Greenbrier Mil-
itary Weat Vir-
ginia

ty

=.i i :
School, Lewisburg

 

nascent

 

singe

 

ais

 
