 

 

Freshman Elections Scheduled For Tomorrow

mo Che Ring-tum Pht os

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

 

 

Volume LXVI LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 12, 1965 Number 6

OPENINGS-HOMECOMING BEGINS FRIDAY

Candidates For | Dance Board Signs Coasters
For Performance At Concert

Frosh Election
Number Thirty * —+ By WALT BORDA
'Marchese To Distribute Editorial Assistant

ae Thursday Jim Crothers, President of the University Dance Board,

‘For Match Experiment announced final plans on Monday night for Openings-Home-

coming Weekend. In addition to Martha and the Vandellas,
| By FRANCIS JONES

 

 

Seventeen Fraternities And
Independents In Race

By SCOTT SNOWDEN

    

 

ve ee Seite Chuck Jackson, Little Milton and the Rhythm Makers, the
| hirty candidates submitted a Sta veporter : pa
as oa doe ae | Operation Match gets underway| Majors, the Tams, and the Ronettes, another group, is set to
pesnons oo » _ « 1 this Thursday when representatives #appear. Alan Knight, dise-jockey
the final tally Monday night. q of the planned dating system dis- Th f I F h with WANT in Richmond, will MC
As campaigning went into full tribute questionnaires on campus and e t n ros the show ; a. a
swing, 11 candidates are run- it fraternity houses. In addition to Cs Tuy
; a ates ¢ the stionnaire there is a three Chairman of the cocktail party
ning for the EC position, 10 for class aS ee D m 1 R d : ]
resident a a. vice president * « dollar registration fee which en- we e orte Emory Walters, announced that the
' Among the thirty candidates, 17 Martha and The Vandellas titles one to full participation in cs Tams will play from four to six
fraternities and the Independent . the program , —. Friday afternoon. This year, as in the
Unien are represented. Twe fre- | Devised by three blind-date-weary Unidentified e ulprit Loots a. the cocktail party will be held
. ‘ ——- T > N > Harvard last ve . ‘ at the Moose Lodge, located on the
ternities have men running for each Includes Poetry, ext, ove arvard juniors last year. Operation . a = a
office, and six have men running for Match of Compability Research, Inc New Dorm; Radios oe aos The Rhythm Makers
' : : ' hic / ’ : . ac the Tams.
two of the three offices. . is a system by which the unattached Clothing Stolen wet OSce UP f
s as in ton n e ro essors male or female is scientifically paired 8 Starting at nine Friday night, the
: Two an i with the member of the opposite By HERB CRENSHAW dance will be held in the gymnasium
Tomorrow, primary elections wi . . . om tn which te is best suited T ! Martha and the Vandellas will alter-
| se) i $ suited. adios, clothing, a beer ste
be held in the Commons from 12 Will Publish Books I his Fall : lik ro readies — a ft = “— nate performances with the Tams,
7 tach freshman will Questionnaires, like those issued|and various personal effects were ; :
noon to 7 p.m. Each fres » VR, emetuniion geantiy fal states tem the teremed wool | Little Milton, and the Rhythm Mak-
cast two votes for each office and Four Washington and Lee Univer- Paxton Davis, a professor of jour- ™ — foes? ee = ——s on —_ . ers. At intervals during the show
mation about the individual and his} the new Freshman Dorm on Satur- : :

the top two candidates in each posi-| sity professors have had books pub- | nalism, has had his third book pub-

on Alan Knight will tell jokes and in-
: : : : sired date in the areas -| day night, Oct. 9 e , cure "
tion will be carried over to the gen-| lished recently, and a fifth professor | lished. A novel entitled “One of the desired date in the areas of import ; ct The thefts occured

troduce the performers

" ance lig s backs ds - | between 4:00 ar :30 é ras

eral election will have a book published early | Dark Places,’ ’it deals with a typhus = “ oe et ; i kground seein th _ : : a ey - cs - Coasters Set
Candidates will speak before al next vear epidemic in Burma during World| ‘> race, intelligence (College | three rooms on the first two floors

voluntary assembly of the freshman Wer ff and the efforts to comet it Boards), attitudes, and physical ap-| Additional thefts have yet to be} Chuck Jackson and his group are

Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor
f hist th t} ,°M Davis served with a medical unit in cot a lat ‘
of history, is the author o nO” | nn dectnn the was. A native of This information is then fed to an The items stolen were as follows;]¢e™t eight to ten Saturday night
sippi West,” a history of the Ameri- -

; » &: North Carolina and graduate of | IBM 7090 computer memory file}|1 clock radio, 1 tranister radio, 2 The Coasters, famous for their hits
can West. The book is partly the out- Johns Hopkins University, Davis is} Which does its decision-making at| sports coats, 1 top coat, 2 sweaters Charley Brown.” “Poison Ivy.” and
growth of a course taught by Dr : lovunns ’ newspaper reporter and | @ $15,000-an-hour rate—hence the] a manicure set, a belt, 1 beer stein Yackety Yak,” will also play along
Purn D Turner - . prest ntly is book editor of the} $3 fee for submitting a question- and a bottle of cologne. By no means with the Ronettes and the Major -
ga yg Va - .aenee Roanoke Times. His previous books | aire. The entrant must submit his did the thief clean out the rooms} ©'others emphasized that no tick-
ol Me niversily oO ichmon

‘
North Carolina and Minnesota, wrote

class on Thursday. Oct. 14, in the pearance reported the main entertainers at the con-

Commons at 7 p.m. The EC candi-
dates will limit their speeches to
five minutes and the presidential
and vice-presidential candidates to
hree minutes

The general election will be held
on Monday, Oct. 18, in the Commons
from 12 noon to 7 p.m. Each fresh-

 

, os . ; ian

were “Two Soldiers,” a pair of short! questionnaire by October 25, and thoroughly: in one room where he[“' will be sold at the door for any of
‘ t *\ t : : ; . ,

novels. and “The Battle of New Mar-| Match will return a list of five names] stole a belt, he left behind an ex-] ‘© even due to the large crowds

 

 

man will cast one vote for each of- Chee we Beem, 6 history of th ket.” | to him the first week of November pensive console short-wave radio} ®*Pected. Furthermore, dark suits
fon Che sapeake and Ohio Railway, pub- : ee | Gin Silene dito | i | set are required at the dance and con-
ce : lished in 1956 Dabney Stuart, an instructor in| 1 aw Ing MANGE 15 sOUN - ventional dress at the concert. Dance
Candidates . — English who joined the Washington| in the Operation Match Quantitive| Closets and dresser draws in | | laveiled .
The ballot tomorrow night will] Dr. Edgar W. Spencer, head of und Lee faculty this fall. will have | Personality Projection Test 111. “In|all three rooms were rifled, and fame are ott lavatonte at the Cosp
contain the following names the geolog) department, has had his| |) ook of poetry, “The Diving Bell,”|@ snack bar you overhear a college|clothing was strewn about the Martha and the Vandellas
Those freshmen running for BC} Mird book, iostegy A Survey of published early next year. It will be | girl saying how her roommate, an|rooms. None of the rooms wert Martha and the Vandellas, thre
are: Richard Battin, Delray Beach, Earth serene published. His pre- his first book. Stuart. a native of| honor student, is in trouble for] locked at the time of the theft rock and roll vocalists, became fa-
Fla., DU; Allen Caskie, Arlington, | Y'OUS Works were also on geological Richmond, is a graduate of David-| coming back at 3 am., two hours Possible Thief eS ee ee
Va., PiKA; Brooks Hines, Brewton, | *#?)e¢' A native of Arkansas, Dr. | on College and Harvard Univer-| past her cerfuw, from a date at a a ” the Streets, “Heat Wave,” “Wild
Ala.. Beta; Sam Hinkle, Shelby- Spencer is a graduate of Washing- oie - drive-in movie. Her roommate has On Saturday afternoon, an un-] One,” and “Quick Sand.”
iin Delt: Mike Livingston,| 'o” and Lee and Columbia. He is|~ ° . lexplained to the dean that her boy known young man dressed in a dark “Hey Girl, Don't Bother Me.” and
Houston. Tex., Phi Phi; Dan Lynn; presently on a year's leave of ab- friends car broke down on a back | *™" and wearing a red vest and|]“What Kind of Fool Do You Think
Randolph, Va., SPE; Tyler Make- | Sence from Washington and Lee for NOTICE road. Your immediate reaction carrying two suitcases knocked on|I Am,” sent the Tams to stardom
seese, Maugetuck, Comm or study and research in New Zealand (9) Car brake down—hahi a door on the same fioor as the vie- The group, consisting of five mak
Chi: Glen Mattox, Arlington, Va and Tasmania (2) 1 doubt it timized rooms. Surprised to find singers, have appeared before at
Phi Gam; Steve Sharp, Wooster, Dr. William A. Jenk prolessor Dr. James G. Leyburn announced (3) Well, maybe the — — his knock um Washington and Lec
Ohio, Phi Ep; Car! Walker, Norfolk,| of history and a noted authority on| that the Ds partment of Sociology (4) The girl is probably telling the am described as 59” and of a The Little Boys
Va., Independent; and Steve Waller,| Austria, is the author of “Austrialis sponsoring a speaker here on| truth chunky build hurriedly asked di- Littl Milton is weording to
East Point, La., Sigma Chi Und the Iron Rin 1879-93." A Wedn day, October 13, at 7:30 p.m Relating th to our own area rections to the oceupant's fraternity Crothers, “well-known local talent
Those running for the president | mative Floridian, he is a graduate of|in duPent Auditerium. E Digby | there are 55,000 students in Virginia house, the initials of which were on The Rhythm Make: the back-up
are: Bob Bell. Washington, Pa., Phi] Washington and Lee and Columbia, | Baltzell, a noted sociologist from the |and 5200 in our immediate area the door. He has not yet ben iden- group for the cocktail party and the
Psi: Worth Blackwell, St. Petersburg, und the author of two previous| University of Pennsylvania. will be] available for the program. Sem of- tified dance, frequently appear on campu
Fla.. Delt; Dee Cannon, Memphis, | ook The Austrian Electorial Re-| the speake His topie will be “The | fe 300; Lynchbu College, 600 The missing articles were reported Chuck Jackson is known for hi
Tenn., SAE; Dave Crawley, Clinton,}| form of 1907" and “Vienna and the| Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of | Baldw in, 700: Sweet B 700; and| *® the dorm counselors as soon as it ecordin tf “Any Other Way” and
Md., Pi Phi; Herb Crenshaw, Forest | Young Hitler Leadership.’ ' Randolph-Macon, 825 was known that they had been take "l“Any Day Now.” Since he and hi
City. N. C.. SPE; Haskell Dickinson, One of the victim aid that all

 

group are the central feature of the

was in order in his room when he lef

 

Little Rock, Ark. Kappa Sig; Neil concert, they will perform long

Kessler, Richmond, Va., Zt; Doo] WW SCL, Young Republicans Commence Campaign (1.0.2.2). Mk" yi moe ee

Sharpe, Burlington, Pa returned one-half hour later, the Both the Ronettes and the Major

 

Lex Tarumianz, Wilmington, Del., I L A d R kb | room had already been looted eee tad tite in the tom feet :
7 — a : . —— . “ay ‘i ' aii ‘ ‘ ie p ort_y iti
Beta; Paul Wojcik, Garfield, N. J n exington n oc ridge County Area | Hi di covered a pillow case stuffed | the last two years. “Last Night 1
Phi Ep we ‘oe mI whe ~ me “| Had a Wonderful Dream About You
The following are running for vice PRANK L. PAIRCHILD, In ; yy clu mem o Gett j 0% t tor closet, apparently left behind by th was the latt contribution, while
president: Ed Apetz, Mount Holly Executive Editor volve struction in the basic prin ! ?p esident Eisenhowe: thief either out of carelessness, o Be my Baby” and “Walking in th
(Continued on page 4) A campaign, a canva ind a col- vlc * political organization In tempt to achieve the largest | [0 later pickup. The thief did, how- R wane ten Semeens
tion are among the main activitic Senator John Towers club the state, W&L Young Re .;ever, take another pillow-cas ” Fraternity disp in the Home
ne which concern W&L Young Repub r clul prospective plan n publican ire presently conducting which he presumab! carried the con competition A be jud i
Debate Team Prepares 1s this fall, Currently participat- | clude obtaining Senator John Tower | a membership drive with 400 parti len articles out of the dorm Saturday morning. The best displa
. nT . } the if ‘ i te il > ble Me weak mad tak ‘é j rate sal \ 1 oF dorm thett One nu .
For Tournament Schedule; a on a ae ' . . ea , yunced during half-time
Chaflin Holds High Hopes | !!e! ork | weekend it steal
; = Hu ; er wekend
Accord ng to Mr. W " Ch i lean Ory : ee lroudadour Audition
wneor of Wa neton and Lax ch ampaign etivities ;
‘vareoye allie somone. te Nyy sage gh i v1 Bob Murra et Procto.| To Be Held Tomorrow
ning ve me. Elgh ll H, For First Play Of Season
end 2) ack
Rho-Tau K \ i
mal Tow VPI in B ’ Waiting for Godot
i b H '
Pe re Weel '
Mr. ( : Notice
ol } } ) | K
i er d e | }
lid x ' A
} ! | ,
National Iwour vi P
i?) | t ; '
Re | fo
‘ l i | ! { ( i

 

Jefl Wainscoat Cleft), campaign chairman, studies map of Lexington aren

1 prosecution of erim« i Po il Actio om-!| with VR's President Roger Wallace ler lu
 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association
Tuesday Edition

| Hazing: Vestige Of The Past _

Every year at this time the evidence of fraternity hazing
crops-up from almost every corner of the campus. This hon-
ored ‘tradition’ which is carefully passed on from generation
to generation is in fact beginning to lose its hold especially
among the sophomores who constitute the citadel of its
strength.

There is, of course no justification for continuing the sort
of physical hazing which is still characteristic of pledge pro-
grams in far too many houses. The old cliche of “pledge class
unity” which is cited as reason enough for these activities lacks
demonstrative proof.

Constructive Pledging

In light of the many problems of freshman assimilation it
appears that the fraternity pledge program could provide
the one real opportunity of impressing the value of traditions
to the neophyte. It goes without saying that the example which
the fraternity sets has a tremendous effect on the attitudes and
actions of the freshmen. A constructive training program would
be valuable to the fraternity as well as to the entire University
community,

Rallies and ‘line-ups’ designed to test the physical and some- |
times mental, endurance of freshmen defeat the whole pur-
pose of pledge orientation. Unfortunately, it is generally the
sophomores who cling to this nineteenth century form of pun-
ishment, primarily because they seek revenge for the previous
year. If the system is to be rectified, the initiative for such
change will of necessity come from the freshmen themselves.

Freshmen unite! You have nothing to loose but your
pledge pins.

Refreshing Note

The freshman class is reveling in the freedom of a wide-
open primary election. There are thirty candidates, each
of whom is convinced of his own deserving merit and enduring
worth and just about everybody thinks he is going to win.

We view this as one of the most healthy political develop-
ments at Washington and Lee in many years. For the first time,
individual qualification for office is of paramount importance.

Freshman Initiative
For the first time, freshman are completely taking the initia-
tive in campaigning and organizing for a candidate. It is re-
freshing to note that for the first time in many years, the usual-
ly omniscient campus politicos are at loss to control or even
follow the freshman elections. It is healthy and it is good.

Freshmen have a large field of candidates, making for a
certain measure of confusion in separating the wheat from the
chaff. This will necessitate a good deal of concentration on the
part of the voting freshman just to remember the names of
the men he wants to elect. However, at this price, freedom is
cheap.

WEL Tennis Courts Remarkably
Resemble the M ekong Delta Area

By NICK RUFFIN

My first column produced a re-
action in the form of a letter to
the Friday edition of the Ring-tum
Phi. I hope that all these columns

produce a reaction, either negative| ! the interest of greater economy
positive, but I do not intend to|! propose that W&L lease its tennis

become involved in a running bat-| Courts to the Department of Defense
tle with anyone who disagrees with | for training in desert warfare and
me. One of in paper and marshland assaults. The courts
enough show a remarkable resemblance to

the Mekong Delta,
Shifting Dunes

; Since W&L doesn't have unlimited
funds, I would presume that the
athletic department would attempt
to maximize the use of the facilities
it does have.

or

those any is

More Waste in Wasteland

agenda this week is
American spectator
“NBC Week” was

First on the
It is absurd that the tennis courts
have been permitted to deteriorate

greatest
television

the

 

port

 

 

 

 

By not properly maintaining them.
W&L has effectively been giving
away. It is one thing for the Univer-
sity not to have money new ta-
cilities, but quite another for it to
abuse those it does have
McNamara

interested

big was eight days long.”
ABC and CBS had equal extrava-
ranzas to introduce their new shows
On the whole there
waste in the wasteland
before. But television also
side; a side that can
here at Washing-

0 it

lor the season for
s now more
than ever
probably

in W&L's

Secretary
Ww ould

has & positive

ec of benefit to u not be

on and Lee, and a side that most] shifting dunes. but there is another
proiessors seem to ignore solution. The tennis team could buy
; *resident Cole a tennis racket, and

Hidden in the pools of Pablum are + = ; ole a at oa « ' ;
{ I z : r to give
few weekly documentaries and| ™!! ashburn could offe o give
him free lessons. Uf such a devoted

significant edu-

'
i-cial programs of

handball player could be converted

eational and cultural value. Last

vonth there were programs about] *® ‘e"s
Henry Moore and urban renewal Pretest March

hich ied in directly with courses in My final thought fer the week
ifie art and aciologs resp ctively that WAL needs a new cause Th

 

The photegraphy and commentary in planned PEACE IN VIETNAM dem-
ve documentaries is usually excel- onstration (1 have no connection
Men who are the subjects of with this thing) will probably not
ul here often appear before | fre too many student hearts As a
© camera. Such programs could proper outiet for our energies, I
ventially dramatize many different propose a campaign te get a revolv-
nit a Te le Vision could he ip cOoMmi« ing door for Ne weomb Hall
ite for the isolation of Lexing- | —
nd the limit in number of visit- i
i peakers at a college of our size Notice
A= | become aware of them, I will
inoun rograms of potential in- There will be an organization
t in this column meeting of the Young Democrats at
8 pm. Thursday, October 14 in
\ Real Shame Payne 6. Di E. L. Pinney will be
| turn now frem a speetator sport|the speaker, Sam Frazier, president
nw OF more et e participation af the club tated that plan for thi
Washington and Lee could | year's activities will be discussed All|
new field house: and if the | interested atudents are urged to at-!
able eonastruction tend and participate in the program
iid probably tal tomorrow. 'oaf the Young Democrat |

 

down in the

 

 

By WARD BRIGGS

This week celebrates the Melina
Mercouri festival at Ed Side’s and
my two or three regular readers of
year will, I am sure remember my
affection for the only MM. The first
of these movies is Never on Sunday,
written, produced and _ directed
by Jules Dassin as a paean to
the charm and “beauty that is
Greece” and, coincidentally, Miss
Mercouri’s also, Dassin is an expa-
triate American Producer-Director
who left this country in self-pro-
claimed exile after his early pictures
were denounced as not only un-
American but downright non-Holly-
wood, He junketed around
Europe for about four years mak-
ing Rififi and He Who Must Die, the
former a classic in the spine- ting-
ling suspense category to which
Topkapi is his most recent addition.
He followed these up with Never on
Sunday and Where the Hot Wind
Blows. The former a sort of female
Zorba The Greek in that both show
the same eflervescent albeit evanes-
cent Greek emotion. Zorba never
loses his humor, Melina never loses
her smile. Those who have seen
Zorba can easily picture Melina ag-
ing into a Lila Kedrova

also

The film has never won an Aeca-
demy as it had to compete with La
Dolce Vita and L'Avventura, but
nevertheless won the Grand Prize
at the Cannes Film Festival, 1960.

 

Sic Semper Tyrannis

 

Current Cinema
A, TLL eR

The acting of Dassin as the quixo-
tic American is somewhat exagger-
ated and occasionally quite amateur-
ish.

The real actors are the people,
the deliberately ugly, greasy, lov-
ing people of Greece who put hap-
piness above work and life above
leisure. Dassin elevates parable
into drama. The film is most not-
able because of Dassin's great tal-
ent for working in crude, natural
surroundings and drawing ener-
getic and colorful performances
from the actors.

It is a great, bright comedy with
a sound foundation about an Amer-
ican who comes to Greece in search
of the truth and meets the altruistic
prostitute Lila. Throughly enchanted
with her, he disenchants her with
the cold steel facts of truth, culture
and moral values, but it is finally
Homer (Dassin) who becomes dis-
enchanted to find there is more joy

ing for truth.
As a frustrated Greek student I
also appreciate the discreet use of

subtitles (which are in only a third
of the film accentuate the difference
in language which in turn under-
scores differences in culture and en-
vironment. The color values of the

demic as the native dances and the
bouzoukia music.

 

aden On Traditions Halted;

Awad ‘To Bring On Prostitutes’

By ROY TYLER

Between the picture that Hash has

been putting in the paper by my
column, Awad’s screaming, and Ap-
gars cartoon, good to see that vou
have the light), I have decided to
give up the fight. Yes, Awad, I am
crushed. I see that the student
body is whole heartedly in favor of
having prostitutes in their bed
Now, | merely eall for yeu to ful-

fill your “campaign promises.” Bring
on the prostitutes
I have only one remark as

black
bed

parting

the columns fall about m1

weary
Nature of Spirit
Walker
peech at freshman camp this
It i by fat
has
the
primary

Chuek Was assigned a
Yeat
the mest difficult speech
ivone to give at freshman
speech concerning “spir-
that the
such a difficult one is that
omething
or that is
It what
a Washington and Lee student

a ten dol-

camp
it.” The

peech |

reason
not concerned with
something
is concerned with

it i
tangible even
miliar
mm ike
whe i for
s the cashier a
the extra five
thinking eve

t in achool. ft j

given change

 

ill when he

 

five, give the cashier

back withoul nm

1Oliars
ino

ik

vren ne hoe

‘ . i i
vhat rake 1OotHAall Piave hire

locker room when

lose an important game th all

illed

i
| ieee what Mant :

part af what ‘

tudent
anotie

igs when he 7?

ei !
rey

tudent |

attacking what he believes in. Wash-
ington and Lee, academically speak-
ing a fine Assuredly the
academic excellence of the school
should the primary concern of
| both student and admin-
| istration. There is no reason, how-

is schoo]

he
the body
why the Wash-

ington and Lee cannot be maintained

ever traditions of

while the standard of academic ex-
| cellence everyone attempts te im-

Wh it

| Awad and many before him have

| prove, can be maintained also

j attempted to do, is somehow iry to

| prove that maintaining of traditions
lat Wa
i

| tracts

hington and Lee somehow de-

from the academic almos-

shere which should be present.”
i i

Purpose of Traditions

Not only is there no proof of thi
but I feel that there is no connec.
tion between the two. Tradition

which are obeerved here (o7 not

observed, whatever the ease may be)

de

nave the purpose of improving
the academic atmosphere of the Uni-
versit

A ured! this will le “i to erik

ot why the hell have them?” I
feei that there more to college
than “aeademic excellence If there
were valid reason to heliev
hat the repseet of tradition on thi
campus somehow detracted [ram the

academic excellence” of the Uni
eraits howeve | would aleo eall
for the end of it. I am not opposed
ta Ml A “ ad icle 7Ol Fre=ey shiuatior

(Continued on pags 4)

in living of life than in the search-|

subtitles throughout the movie. The |

native tongue are as vivid and en-|

 

 

- Melina Mercouri Festival
Draws Praise from Briggs

Phaedra, which comes today is an
ancient theme translated te modern

been a popular story capitalized on
by Euripides, Racine, and most re-

It is dramatic and absorbing, yet
foreign to the classic rubries of

(Continued on page 4)

4
ae

Greece. Throughout the ages it has |
cently by the ubiquitous Mr. Dassin. |

tragedy. In tragedy, the character is

World of the Coat &

Artel Stands Out
As Intellectual,
Individualistic

By MIKE NATION

The intellectual reawakening on
campus of the past decade has taken
many forms. At many schools it has
meant sit-ins, teach-ins, public
meetings, and other forms of activ-
ism. The college student demands
that he must be heard.

This desire to be heard exists for
various reasons, but the most im-
portant of these is, as Saturday Re-
view puts it, the “struggle for relev-
ance.”

True Individualism

A potent medium for this struggle
for relevance, this seeking out of
himself, this pushing forth true in-
dividualism, is the student literary
magazine. Quoting again from Sat-
urday Review “...the one poem, or
short story, by a student writer can
| tell a good deal about what is im-
| portant the college generation,
and how he copes with being irrelev-
ant.

“There are thousands of silent
, wars and hundred of minor faiths
| on campus. These come to the sur-
| face of student literary magazines.”
Ariel Two Years Old

Three and one-half years ago
Ariel was founded on this campus.
In the words of the first editor, it
was to be “a literary review which
was to be written and published by
students of this University.” There
was to be no faculty supervision, no
University financial subsidy in the
publication of the magazine.

The editor further stated: “Some-
one asked me, after Ariel's founding,
what our protest, what our crusade
would be. I replied none. Later, I
| realized that Ariel was a kind of
crusade—a crusade which has been
| and is the publication of the maga-
| zine. A crusade a la tres chere, a la
tres belle

Unusually Refreshing

At a time when there are argu-
ments nauseum about conven-
| tional dress ond other superficiali-
ties, Ariel stands out medium
of true intellectual thought and in-
| dividualism. The thoughts end ideals

to

 

 

ad

ire most nobly expressed in the ex-
ercise of the arts.

Tie

 

By BRUCE W. RIDER
Those faithful readers who clip
and save this majestic column may
remember last year I made mention
of my first book, Happiness Is a
Warm Date. Well, friends, I've done

it again. Soon to hit the stands across

 

To Hit a Home Run Inside the Park.
It will cost fifty cents a copy, ex-
jeept in the University Book Shop,
where it will cost three hundred dol-

the nation is my latest volume, Hew |

Flicks & Booze in Co-op?

Seminar Rooms

The question we are immediately
faced with course, what to
jput in this new building. It goes
without saying that it should reflect
the basic interest of the student body.
Thus a least one floor should be set
aside for seminar rooms where stu-
|dents can engage in important de-
i bates on the subject of Coats and
| Ties Perhaps we could have a Con-
i ventional Dress fioor, and above it

} construct a Speaking Tradition floor.
i

is

ol

i

|

Flicks and Booze

| lars
| That important news out of the
iway, let us turn to other matters |

pertinent to the well-being of this!

i thriving University, this wonderful

ton and Lee
The Student Union

They tell me that a commitiee has
i been formed to study and make rec-

ommendations concerning that quaint

edifice. the Student Union. (I've
olten wondered how the hell vou
get on such a committee. The last

isuch thing I was on was the Sani-
tation Squad in third grade.)

I think we students would all agree
t we should have a brand new
If the Alumni are
renovats house, the

them

th
building going

to a least we

bette:
up

ean do is to

and

“0 one
ground

Hops fully we can ernmage one of the

begin from the

Lee University. The mailing address

MICHAEL M. HASH

 

world of the Coat and Tie, Washing- |

, entertaining

iWhy els

finer architects who will design a
tructure in keeping with other cam

pus buildings—that is, in the fine |
stylistic tradition of Early Cinder
Block

ume

lf there room left over, I
|for one would like a movie theater
|where movies could be shown at a
ireasonable price. What with the
| price of a flick up to ninety cents I
j have been forced to limit myself to
lonly six movies a week. I have heard
i tell that Washington and Lee stu-
i dents-when, of course, they are not
| pondering the Coat and Tie Prob-
for vessels
| containing aleohol. Therefore, in this
inew Student Union a goodly supply
on hand when
i the day is done and we sit back and
(we never take them
coals (we

is any

| lem sometimes reach

|
1of booze should he
| loosen our ties
iol) and unbutton
inever take ti

Now, have

One

oul
vem off)

left anything out?
ol our new
provided
sccommodations for the
ol students
find their way to Lexingten
eall the

we
Ye

iret

gracious floor

place should be
!

ung
with suitab
uch female
‘ iia’
do

;
really you

sing the Student Union?

The King-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Wa hington and

is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as second clase matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878

JAMES E. KEDENBAUGH

Editer-in-Chiel Business Managet
LINTORIAL BOARD
Managing Editor: Charles H. Newman
Executive Edite Frank Fairehild
News Edito Steve Saunders
Associate Edita: Don O'Hare
Sports Editor Tom Carpenter
Editorial Assistant Walt Borda
Cartoon Edito: John George
BUSINESS STAPF
| Co-Busine Manage: Kenneth Bernhardt
| Advertising Manage: George Meier, Randy Chitwood

| Office Manager
Circulation Manage:
Subac ripen Manage:

Charlie Tomb
Rob Priddy
Jae k Robbin

 

 
 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Score First
TD, but Lose Third

Lady Luck seems to have shunned the Washington and Lee
eleven at least for the present as Centre College of Kentucky

prevailed here Saturday by the

score of 12-7. This is the third

consecutive game in which victory has eluded the Generals.
The Colonels scored first as Ben Boone raced 19 yards,

but four minutes later fullback John Anthony evened the
score on an eight yard run, Skip*-—-—— -

Jacobsen converted the extra point
to give Washington and Lee its first
touchdown and first lead of the year.

The lead lasted for a short time

only as with two minutes left in the |:

half Centre quarterback Joe La-
Monica hit Boone with a pass that
covered 41 yards and put the ball on
the Generals’ six yard line. Three
plays later the Colonels pushed the
ball across the goal line to regain
the lead, 12-7,
W&L Dominates Second Half

In the second half Washington
and Lee dominated the play as
Anthony repeatedly burst through
the Centre line to pick up big gains,
but the Generals were unable to
push across the winning tally.

Anthony was the individual star as
he proved the workhorse with 129
yards gained in 29 carries. He scored
on a 28 yard dash in the third
quarter which was called back be-
cause of a cliping penalty. This
touchdown would have been de-
cisive, but the unnecessary clip as
Anthony crossed the goal line wiped
out the possible victory. In the
fourth quarter Anthony personally
took the Generals to the Colonels
nine yard line where a fourth down
pass by Jim Oram fell incomplete
as the game ended.

Defense Outstanding Again

The Generals’ defense was again
outstanding as it held the Colonels
without a first down in the second
half and only five in the first half.
Linebackers Joe Miller and Jeff
Novinger and linemen Charlie My-
ers, Starke Sydnor, and Bob Bar-
clay were particularly outstanding,
as was safetyman Larry Craig. Mil-
ler culminated his outstanding day
by intercepting a Centre quick pass
over the middle.

Saturday the Generals entertain
Guilford College in the Homecoming
game, Guilford ruined Bridgewater's
Homecoming by walloping the
Eagles, 56-6, this past Saturday.

Johnson Paces Runners To
Third Consecutive Victory;
Visit Old Dominion Friday

By Mark Eaker

W&L's cross-country team contin-
ued its winning ways with a nar-
row 27-32 victory over Catholic
University last Saturday during
halftime of the Washington and Lee-
Centre football game. Co-captain Lee
Johnson again led the W&L runners
with a strong second place finish.
This was the first time this year
that Johnson has not won,

Johnson's time of 23:40 was excel-
lent and was only six seconds slow-

er than that of the winner from |
Catholic U. W&L runners finished
second, fourth, sixth, seventh, and

eighth. This depth led to the victory,
the Generals’ third consecutive

Friday Coach Miller's squad trav- |

els to Old Dominion College in quest
of their fourth dual meet triumph

Notice

Ariel, the campus literary maga-
zine, announced today the date of
publication of its first issue. No-
vember 22 is the date set by editor
Grayson Powell for the autumn is-
sue. This is the first of three issues
which will sell for 75e or $2 for a
yearly subseription, A subseription
to the magazine may obtained
from any member of the staff. Any-
one who wishes may join the staff
freshmen are especially encouraged

be

Patronize
Our

Advertisers

SCHOOL SUPPLIES

Rose’s

STORES, INC

# Main St

¢ 3

Tuesday S ports

B. S.

By TOM CARPENTER

 

Pro football is becoming more and
more like baseball every day. Only
a few years ago the starting quar-
terback went the distance on of-
fense unless he was deterred by an
injury. Now pro football has a new
player known as the “relief pitcher.”
This character is the second string
quarterback, a man who must be
capable of coming into the ball game
cold to relieve the starter when he
is unable to move his ball club. The
starter also may be relegated to the
“bullpen” if he has too many bad
games like Sonny Jurgensen of the
Washington Redskins, and he be-
comes the “reliver.”

The two platoon system in college
football has not taken the fancy of
all the coaches. Ed Merrick of the
University of Richmond has discov-
ered that his best offensive players
are often his best defensive men. He
has gone back to the high school
system of two platooning at certin
positions having two-way performers
at the other positions.

Coach Bear Bryant of the Uni-
versity of Alabama has retreated to
the old system of strings. In short,
he has a first, second, third team,

than specialize. He finds that this

platoon method with the personnel
on the Alabama club.
Homecoming Game

Homecoming games are usually
scheduled such that the home team
will win, but Washington and Lee
seems to have failed in this goal.
The Generals play Guilford College
of North Carolina Saturday in the
Homecoming games. Guilford ap-
pears to be too strong for the winless
Generals but upsets are nothing new
in Lexington.

Comparative scores are interesting,
but do not mean much. Hampden-
Sydney beat Bridgewater, 14-7, and
whipped the Generals by two
touchdowns. Guilford beat the Tig-
ers, 28-3, and Saturday smashed
Bridgewater, 56-6. Make your won
conclusions.

Street and Smith's yearly football
magazine appropriately entitled
Football is noted for its excellent
college football preseason previews,
yet some of the country’s outstand-
ing college football teams are not

 

mentioned. How can anyone write
| a college football magazine and omit
| such schools as Florida A&M, Gram-
| bling, and Jackson St. to name a few
io the many outstanding all-Negro
colleges which have football teams?
The country’s best football may be
| played in leagues like the Central
Intercollegiate Athletic Association.
(Continued on page 4)

PEEEESESSETESETEEES TOTES

|

GEESE SEES SESSEEEE SEES
Ceeeeereeeeereeeeeeeeeee

The
COLLEGE INN

SSS SSST st

. os
? HICKMAN’S ESSO $
: on ;
: US. 1 SOUTH :
. .
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

 

TOWN INN
ABC 5392 on and off
Sandwiches, Beverages, Dinners,
Seafood
STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
ON. Main Street

 

 

 

 

Appliances

 

 

ete., which play both ways rather |

system works better than the two!

 

Headquarters for Men's Wear

Gifts, Items for the Home

We Welcome Your Charge Account

W&L quarterback Brynt Kendrick (10)

U3
ee Oe Tt:

aaa

fouests

oti

DL Re LC Tae
a |

—

 

Oo

turns left

j
E , *

end on a keeper play early in the first quarter against
Centre College. Tersh Baker (82) throws a key block for Kendrick. Centre was victorious 12-7,
—Photo by Borthwick

 

Brigadiers Win, 33-0

 

Kinney Scores Three, Cannon Adds Two In Rout

By MARK EAKER

Dick Kinney scored three touch- |
downs and Dee Cannon two as the |

W&L freshmen
Military School,
Field Friday.

Kinney was the leading ground
gainer with 127 yards on 12 carries
Cannon raced for 82 yards on 7
tries. Altogether the W&L offense
pushed across 335 yards total of-
fense.

The first W&L score came with
9:58 left in the first quarter when

Kinney broke through the Fish-
burne line and sped 52 yards. This
was the first touchdown of the sea-
son for a W&L football team. The
kick for the extra point failed.
Three minutes later Jeb Brown

recovered a Fishburne fumble on
their 48. Successive 8-yard runs by
Brown and Kinney and an Al Tom-
lin pass to Charlie Freret moved the
ball to the 28 where Kinney took
over and raced the distance to the
end zone. The point after failed again
and the score stood at 12-0. The sec-
ond quarter was scorless.

In the second half Fishburne was
still unable to move against the de-
fense led by John Wolf. Freret in-
tercepted a pass at the Fishburne 23
On W&L’s second play of the half,

Fishburne
at Alumni

routed
33-0,

Kinney took a direct snap from
center and went 21 yards for his
third touchdown, Cannon ran for
the extra point to run the score
20-0.
eeeeereeeesteeeeeeeeeeeee
s o
. 7
; R. Re Hess and Bro. .
*
: JEWELERS :
. Lexington, Virginia °
> 163-2833 °
. .
* .

 

Shirt Service as You Like it

Bring Your Complete Laundry
to Us

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS
163-3622
a

“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

 

 

eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
CENTRAL LUNCH

TRY OUR FAMOUS
SWISS BURGERS

Serving Food and Beverages

A Wide Variety of Domectic
and Imported Beer Served
and Delivered

Telephone 165-2854

Adair-Hutton, Inc.

Lexington, Virginia

| Cannon's first touchdown came
with 2:30 left in the third quarter
after W&L got the ball at their
own 40 and steadily moved it to
the 25. From there Cannon came
across left tackle to get his tally.
Tomlin kicked the extra point to
make it, 27-0,

The

last score came in the
ceivers Brown and Haskell Dickin-

son with passes. W&L moved from

 

final |
period as Tomlin began to hit re- |

its own 43 to the Fishburne nine
|yard line, where Cannon tallied
|his second six pointer. The extra
| point attempt failed and the score
jended at 33-0.

The defense matched the offense’s
showing, holding Fishburne to a total
of 73 yards and four first downs.
Defensive standouts, besides Wolf,
were Dan Lynn, Jay Clarke, Hank
Wilson and Scott MacKenzie.

(Continued on page 4)

|
|
|

 

 

Booters Top
Davis-Elkins
For 3rd Win

The soccer team of Davis and
Elkins College from West Virginia
visited Lexington last week as
merely a wonder of dubious nomen-
clature and reputation but left the
town as a total nonentity in the an-
nals of W&L athletics after being
squelched by the score of 6-0 in a
game that can only politely be
called a rout.

The Washington and Lee attack
was centralized about the able and
consistent play of the General half-
backs. Offensively, the home team
had ample opportunity to score as is
evidenced by one-sided the outcome.
Defensively, the W&L team was also
outstanding as the Davis and Elkins

squad was limited to only three
shots at the Washington and Lee
! | goal.

Shinkle and Craig Star

Brad Shinkle and Allen Craig
shared scoring honors for the Gen-
erals by each tallying twice. Shinkle
scored the first two goals of the con-
test in the first and second quarters.
Craig added his two goals in the
third and fourth periods.

The other two scores were made
by Ed Hutchins in the third quar-
ter and Richie Hamilton in the fourth
quarter to make the final result a
6-0 shutout.

As far as overall play is concerned,
Coach Joe Lyles named Shinkle,
freshman Scott Fechney, and Co-
captain David Redmond as the out-
standing players in the game. With
this triumph the W&L team ha

pulled its seasonal record to 3-2.
Injured Recovering
According to Co-captain Redmond,

(Continued on page 4)

 

The young bucks of America

go clean-white-sock in the
new crew Adler calls Adlastic

Meet the revolutionary crew of 65% lambswool plus 35% nylon with spandex for

THe 40.68 GComPant, Comcrnmall 14, Gere.

Available at

100% stretch. Up and down. This way and that. That's Adlastic with the give to
take on all sizes 10 to 15 and last far longer and fit far better. Size up Adlastic in
28 clean-white-sock colors. Clean-white-sock? The now notion with it even without
the wherewithall. Whatever, get Adlastic at stores where clean-
white-sock is all yours for just one young buck and a quarter.

ADLER

Orem OF BUM Belem meveleEe

College Town Shop Thomas Ltd. Alvin-Dennis
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Flick Columnist Discusses Virtues of Dassin’s Latest Pictures

(Continued from page 2)

one like Macbeth, tragic, yet made
up entirely of human matter. Fate
acts against this character by purely
believable circumstances, stacking
the deck, card by card against him.
These circumstances, due to some
moral deficiency on the part of the
central figure preclude his escaping
the inevitable tragedy. We are then
shown, by one dramatic action,
either a basie vice or virtue of the
character which leads to emotional
or physical collapse or bankruptcy.

This collapse relates the char-
acter’s usefulness in a world where
basic goodnes or at least more-
goodness than evil, is essential for
survival.

This pattern has been used notably
in ancient literature and in modern
writing, just as the theme of Phaedra
has. We always see a tragic hero

Soccer Team Wins
(Continued from page 3)

the early season injuries which
hampered the team for the most part
seem to have healed. Fred Skinner
and Wes Horner both are again in
full action and Redmond’s back in-
jury has improved.

 

who evokes from the audience not
only pity but reprehension, and
more pity than reprehension. It has
been universally gratifying to play
god in judging the tragic hero while
his fate is being unravelled.

In this version, the antagonist is
Aphrodite, the goddess of love we
meet briefly in a museum. All of
the characters are her unsuspecting
victims. The point is not that they
are immoral. We see the pride of
Alexis and the bull-headed fury of
Thanos, but they are not tragic
causes here. All characters are equal
they are all three neither cause nor
result, ends nor means. We are
shown instead the ancient Greek
idea of a supernatural force work-
ing on three very close people ef-
fecting a triple disaster.

The theme, or observation to be
cited here is that if a man is to deal
in a world of immeasurable and un-
reliable forces, he must do his best
to maintain his humility before his
gods, patience with himself and
charity for his neighbors. Good and
evil transcend the individual case
of Macbeth and affect the entire
group. Evil is never, in its overt state,
controlled by human powers. It is
less than human and more,

Particularly striking in this

 

movie are the visual images.
Phaedra’s Doir dresses resemble
togas; like Phaedra they are plain,
but uniquely beautiful. Urgency
symbols are the ringing telephone,
the burning cigarette. When Alexis
calls the airport to get out of Paris,
he plays with the light switch,
flicking it on and off as his desire
swells and ebbs,

When Phaedra lies on the beach
awaiting Alexis, she grows more and
more anxious for his return. As the
anxiety turns to passionate despera-
tion, we are shown alternately
the sun on double image with Me-
lina’s face brilliantly set off by the
rays of her hair. Yet when Alexis
comes he appears in a cool silhouette
and blocks out the sun. He calmly
rejects her and she is once more left
to bake in the sun. As Erecy goes
to a party Alexis under Phaedra’s
eye, the band plays “London Bridge

 

 

Carpenter On S ports
(Continued from page 3)

Many stars in the National Football
League such as Bob Hayes, David
Jones, Roosevelt Taylor, Willie
Davis, and Roger Brown came from
Negro colleges.

 

is falling down,” the same bridge on
which Phaedra made her sacrifice to
Alexis.

The greatest fault of the movie
is Tony Perkins who should have
stayed on his water skies at Rol-
lins. Although partly salving him-
self by his final dramatic reading
in which he is escorted out “by old
John Sebastian himself,” he looks
like a litthe boy who has just walk-
ed in on his mother while she was
in the bathtub,

These two movies, I feel, show ef-
fectively amorality of Greek life at
two levels, the very rich and the
very poor. Both show that life may
be lived in the pursuit of happiness,
but not in the escape from morality.

 

Elections Set

(Continued from page 1)
N. J., SPE; Clark Carter, Baltimore,
Md., Delt; David Dowler, Dallas,
Tex., Sigma Nu; Carlisle Landreth,
Roanoke, Vir., Independent; Walter
Melyk, Yorktown Heights, N. Y., In-
dependent; Ben Schwartz, Williams-
burg, Va., Phi Psi; Gary Silverfield,
Columbia, 8S. C., PiKA; John Thie-
meyer, Norfolk, Va. Phi Kap and
Gil Turner, Princeton, N. J., Phi
Gam.

 

Tyler Ends Fight With Awad

(Continued from page 2)

but I think that he should consider
all of the people who are concerned
with the problem.

Not only is the present student
body concerned with the “problem,”
but so is the administration and
faculty. So, too, are the alumni. The
present student body should not be
able to do away with conventional
dress, or the Honor System, merely
because it feels free to do so. Do not,
however, think that this statement
means that I believe the student
body is in favor of such repeal. I
believe that the students at Wash-
ington and Lee are in favor of main-
taining the traditions of the Univer-
sity.

I also believe that there is more
involved here than either Awad
or I want. There is more involved
here than the student body wants.
The personal whims, the likes and
dislikes of students here. cannot be
all powerful. A certain amount of
respect is expected from each stu-
dent.

Respect, however, must be earned;
it cannot be forced on people This
is where “spirit” enters the picture,
and we are back where we started.
Without this respect, love; call it

what you will, a person's college

experience will not be a complete
one. I do not mean that one must
cherish the very ground on which
his college was built, nor do I mean
that the school can do no wrong.

I do means that my experience at
Washington and Lee has ben, and
will continue to be, one of the most
cherished times of my life. But again,
there is now way that I can convey
this to others without leaving my-
self open to ridicule by those who
do not feel as I do.

So, here I will close my argument
answering Alwad’s question by say-
ing, “No, Awad, I do not think that
you are destroying Washington and
Lee.” It would take a hell of a lot
more than you have to offer to do
that. So, Awad, keep sereaming as
Il am certain that you will do,

 

 

Freshman Football
(Continued from page 3)

Coach Dana Swan expressed his
pleasure with the game, pointing
out the well balanced offense and
the sturdy defense. He feels the
team showed a great deal more

timing and consistency against
Fishburne than it did against
Woodberry,

 

 

Weekly Football Contest

Sponsored by the business

firms on this page

 

at

7

Che
Craditinnal Shop

Pres Brown’s
KENTUCKY vs. LOUISIANA STATE

 

W&L vs. GUILFORD

p

House of Gilts
m om ef Ir Frow
46W

Lextngten va

 
   

ine

Washington

 

Rabe Oil Co.

PHILLIPS 66

 

MICHIGAN STATE vs. OHI) STATE

 

Records
Greeting Cards

Pipes and

Campus Corner

Stereo Components

AUBURN vs. GEORGIA TECH

Study Guides
Tobacco

 

to be

J. Ed Deaver

ALABAMA vs.

SHOP BRAND NAMES

Sweaters by Puritan
Shirts by Manhattan
Oppos te R. E. Lee Hotel

sure

& Sons, Inc.

TENNESSEE

 

DUKE vs.

 

East Lexington Grocery

Beer—Ice—Gas
Open 7 days a week

8 a.m.-10 p.m.

CLEMSON

 

Cricketeer

 

English Leather

Gold Cup After Six
Moss Cullege Town Erno
Royall Lyme Shap Piping Rock
Alan Paine ILLS.
London Fog Bermuda Spyce

MICHIGAN vs. PURDUE

Win Cash Prizes

Pick the winners in each ad on this page. The person
getting the most right wins first prize; next best, second
prize. In case of a tie the closest guess at the actual score
of the W&L game, then, Notre Dame will win. The con-
test is open to anyone except members of the Ring-tum

Phi staff.

Entries must be postmarked before Noon on Saturday
(Box 899) or brought to the Ring-tum Phi office in the
Print Shop by Noon Saturday, Only one entry per

person.

First Prize—$7.50
Second Prize—$2.50

Patronize the advertisers who made this contest possible.

Good luck!

Official Entry Blank

Advertiser

Pres Brown's

Suzy’s House of Gifts
Rabe Oil Co.

Campus Corner

J. Ed Deaver and Sons
East Lexington Grocery
College Town Shop
Ram Jet of Lexington
Legett’s

Ring-tum Ph.
Alvin-Dennis

Neo’s House of Beef

Thomas Led.

Winner

TIE BREAKERS

W&L

Name

Address

Guilford

“McGregor”

Ram Jet Car Wash

of Lexington

located behind the new Greyhound Bus Terminal near
Lexington High School

2 bits plus 5 minutes equal 1 clean car

FLORIDA vs. N.C. STATE

Top Quality Clothes at Prices

you can afford

Leggett’s
Main Street
NAVY vs. Pitt

“Arrow Shirts”

 

The

Ring-tum Phi

wishes you luck

NORTH CAROLINA vs, MARYLAND

 

SYRACUSE vs.

For the Style-Conscious Man

SERO SHIRTS

at
Aluin-Dennis

PENN STATE

 

FOR THE FINEST FOOD

in Lexington

Neo’s
HOUSE OF BEEF

under the same management as the College Lon

VIRGINIA vs, WEST VIRGINIA

 

 

Thomas, £12,

Gant Shirts
Bass Weejuns

ARKANSAS vs. TEXAS

 

 

 
