 

 

 

 

 

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che Bing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXVI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA,

APRIL 22, 1966

Number 45

 

Nominations
For EC Posts

Due April 25

Petitions with 50 signatures will be
required from all candidates for
the EC by 6 p.m. on Monday, April
25, and the primary will be on
Wednesday. This does not include
the candidates from the law school,
since they are not subject to a pri-
mary election. Petitions for under-
graduate candidates should be given
to Joe Framptom, Dorm II-318.

Prior to the primary election next
Wednesday, each class will meet at
7 p.m. to hear the candidates’ speech-
es. The rising seniors will meet in
Newcomb 8, rising juniors will meet
in duPont Auditorium, and the ris-
ing sophomores will meet in Evans
Dining Hall.

Candidates for the Executive Com-
mittee will be allowed to speak for
a maximum of 3 minutes during these
meetings. A portion of this time may
be used for nominations if desired,
however total time will be three
minutes.

Class officers will be nominated
from the floor and will be permitted
to speak for two minutes. Part of this
time may also be used for the nomi-
nation, or the candidate may nomi-
nate himself.

Following these speeches there vill
be a primary election. In the =C
elections two candidates will be
elected from each class;the primary
will eliminate all but the four high-
est candidates. In the elections for
class officers, where one man is
elected, the primary will eliminate all
but the two highest candidates. The
only class officers to be elected are
the president and vice-president ex-
cept in the senior class where three
vice-presidnts will be elected.

The general elections will be held
on Monday, May 2, from 8 a.m. to
5 p.m. in Washington Hall. Two
votes may be cast in the EC races
where two candidates will be elected.

The freshmen and intermediate
law classes will meet in the South
Room at 7 p.m. on Monday, May 2,
to elect their representatives to the
EC. Following this election each class
will elect its own class officers. Nom-
inations will come from the floor and
a simple majority will be required to
win.

Viet Nam Talk
Criticizes U.S.

On Wednesday, April 20, the Lib-
erty Hall Society sponsored the
lecture “Viet Nam! Chinese Threat?”
by University of Virginia professors,
Dr. Richard J. Caughlin, an expert
on Viet Nam and its history, and
Dr. Maurice J. Meisner, an expert on
Chinese history.

After a brief

 

introduction, Dr.

Caughlin, gave a short talk on the
mistakes the U.S. made in Viet Nam

 

Ric a L au Meese
.. . Chinese threat
and the misconceptions held by

many Americans regarding the situa-
tion and factors involved

Dr. Meisner gave a long lecture
on the Chinese role in Viet Nam and,
in general, South-East Asia. He des-
cribed a number of misconceptions
on the part of the uniniorme d and
attempted to correct the erroneous
ideas held by many. His main point
dealt with the question of whether
there is a Chinese threat and where
and to whom it is directed if it does
exist

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

   

|

Artist’s conception of exterior of new addition to student Union building, now under consideration by a facul-
ty-student committee.

 

Revised Assimilation Policies
To Go Into Effect Immediately

Assimilation Committee Chair-
man Sam Frazier today stated that
the Executive Committee’s new rules
on assimilation will go into effect
immediately. The EC rules are as
follows:

(a) Students will appear before the
Assimilation Committee after that
committee receives one card with
that student’s name on it. Additional
cards received before the student's
actual appearance will not constitute
a separate offense. When the stu-
dent appears the first time the Com-
mittee will talk to him and ask
his future cooperation concerning
conventional dress. He will also be
warned that after five appearances
he will be referred to the Executive
Committee whose full range of power
will include a recommendation for
suspension. The second appearance
will bring a $1 fine and further dis-
cussion with the student. The third
appearance will bring a $2 fine. The
fourth appearance will bring a $3
fine and a final reminder that an
additional card will necessitate an
appearance before the Evecutive
Committee. The student's fifth ap-
pearance will be before the Execu-
tive Committee.

(b) An unexcused absence by a

Girls Arrested,
Fined $115 For
Mag Soliciting

Lexington police have announced
that they were able to secure the
arrest and conviction last week of
two salesgirls who were reportedly
“soliciting for magazine subscrip-
tions’ at various fraternity houses
and student apartments

Jeyce Hess, age 20, who gave her
address as 919 Kansas Street in Ar-
lington, and “Sherry Lee MeLain,”
22, also of the same address, were
charged on April 12th with a vioia-
tion of city statute section 15-34,
which prohibits soliciting for the sale
of magazine on private property in
Lexington. Miss “MeLain” was sub-
sequently charged, on the Mth, with
giving false information to a police
officer, when it was ascertained that
her name really is Gloria Denerich
and that lives in Catonsville,
Maryland. The arrests were made by
Lexington’s Lieutenant Kirby, on
the complaint of two WE&L students
whom the Department identified as
Cary Hansel and Edmund Burke

Both girls were brought to trial
on the day after their arrest, before

 

she

Judge William M. A. Romana, Jr.,
in Municipal Court. Each was fined
$50.00 and $7.50 in costs, given a

suspended thirty-day sentence, and

An agent
which the
representing in

(Continued on page 4)

i kb
directed to leave the city

Arlington

allewedly

the firm

ri

o

 

student who has been notified to ap-
pear before the Assimilation Com-
mittee will result in a $1 fine in ad-
dition to the normal fine he would
have received. After a third absence
the student will be referred to the
Executive Committee for disciplinary
action.

(ce) Gentiemanly attire is expected
from all students at all times.

(d) The Assimilation Committee
will use its own descretion regard-
ing any extenuating circumstances.

(e) Assimilation Committee mem-
bers will be active in assimilating
students and will encourage other
students to be active also.

Chairman Frazier commented that
these provisions “empower the As-

similation Committee to interpret
what does constitute gentlemanly
attire—whether, where, and when
some variation of conventional dress
might be appropriate. As a result,
the Committee has the flexibility to
both effectively and reasonably en-
force the system.”

“The extent to which this or any
Assimilation policy is felt depends
entirely on the attitude of the stu-
dents, however. We ask all students
to co-operate with conventional
dress and to give the new system
a chance to be fairly tested.”

Assimilation Committee boxes
are located in the Commons, in New-
comb, Washington, duPont halls, and
in the Law School.

 

 

Renaissance Theatre Authority
To Speak On Troubadours’ Play

Mr. Charles Raison, whom Troub-
adour director Lee Kahn calls “as
much of an authority as there is in
this country” on the Italian Ren-
aissance commedia delfarte theater,
will speak at W&L Monday night in
connection with the forthcoming
Troub production of The Three
Cuckolds.

The commedia was one of the chief
ancestors of the modern theater. It
is little known today, since it was
the one major theater form which
was never performed from an actual
script; all plays were improvised
from a bare plot outline and a
stockpile of comic situations and
characters

The Three Cuckolds is a recon-
struction from one of the surviv-
ine scenarios of what the final result
must have been like. It concerns the
activities of the prankster Arlec-
chino, played in this production by
di ¥ Cady.

Arlecchino the three old
men of the title (Lew Davis, Even
Jeffries, and Lock Handley) in ear-

assists

rying on affairs with one another's

wives (Mrs. Rebert Rushing, Mrs
Royster Lyle, and Mrs. John Evans)
In doing so, he locks one up in a
chest, persuades another to have
all his teeth pulled, and convinces
the third that his wife can bear him
a child simply by digging in the
ground while reciting incantations in
Latin

While eulstandingly successful in
feoling the old men, however, Arlec-
chino is endlessly frustrated in his
attempts, as he puts it, “to win for

myself a bit of the dessert.” In the
end all three husbands are reunited
with thei proper wives while
Ar cc ne depart unfed ind unsat-
ised in eearca Of hew people oo
decie\ ‘ i
Also feat yrved in the ewasl are the
i @ily Maver Le andro played ny ire

Iman Jeb Brown, and one of the most

h=i

unusual devils in all of literature is
portrayed by Tim Webster.

The reason for sponsoring a lec-
ture on the commedia before the
production, according to Mr. Kahn,
is the unfamiliarity of the form to
American audiences. “This is a very
funny and very bawdy play,” he
says, “but makes use of conventions
of which most people are not aware.

(Continued on page 4)

*

 

 

Committee Considers
Plans For Enlarged
Student Union Area

Tentative architect’s plans for the expansion of the Student

Union facilities and physical pl

The firm of Clark, Nexsen,

ant were laid before the faculty-

+ student Student Union Committee Wednesday for approval.

and Owen has drawn up a plan

which would provide for the erection of a new two-floor
structure forming a link between Evans Dining Hall and the
present Student Union-Coop building, in the space occupied

by a brick-paved court.

In addition to new construction, large scale changes would

 

 

 

 

Self-Study Sets
Open Hearings

On Fraternities

Dean Lewis G. John, analyst for
the Self-Study report section deal-
with student life at Washington and
Lee, will conduct open hearings on
Tuesday, April 26, on the topic of
“social fraternities.”

The meeting for students is sched-
uled for 3:15 p.m. in Newcomb 8,
and the faculty session is scheduled
for 7:30 p.m. in the same room.

A summary of questions and sug-
gestions relative to fraternities has
been distributed to the faculty and
to the student leadership (execu-
tive committee, fraternity presidents,
and newspaper editors). Copies of
the summary are available to other
students in Mr. Parsons’ office on the
third floor of Washington Hall.

The summary contains such ques-
tions as “Do fraternities hinder the
University in carrying out its major
objective?”; “Would some alternative
system—e.g., elimination of frater-
nities, 100% fraternity membership
(‘total opportunity’), some form of
deferred rush—be both feasible and
beneficial?”; and “Can the position
of fraternity housemothers at Wash-
ington and Lee be improved?”

Among the recommendations are
that “fraternities should be required
to utilize on a regular basis the ser-
vices of local Certified Public Ac-
countants”; several proposals are also
included on actions that fraternities
can take to improve themselves.

Because of the importance of fra-
ternities in student life at Washing-
ton and Lee, the Self-Study Com-
mittee appointed a special subcom-
mittee to conduct an intensive study
of problems affecting fraternities and
their relationships with the Univer-
sity. Chairman of the subcommittee
was Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw and the
membership consisted of both fac-
ulty and students. The subcommittee
devoted almost a full year to its
investigation.

The report of the subcommittee
has been received by the Self-Study

Committee. Following Dean John's

(Continued on Page 4)

*be made within the existing build-
ings to accommodate increased facil-
ities.

Among the proposals made in the
tentative blueprints were the follow-
ng:

—the main floor of the present
Student Union would remain bas-
ically unchanged. However, a library
would replace the large meeting
room, containing paperback books,
magazines, desks, and lounge chairs,
while pay telephone booths will be
placed in what is now an empty side
entrance hall.

—the basement of the Student
Union would be given over to sound-
proof muise practice rooms, with
the Calyx office moving to the third
floor.

—a large portion of the present
co-op area would be made an execu-
tive committee room with adjoining
witness rooms and a storeroom. This
section would also have a separate
outside entrance.

—the lower level of the Co-op,
which now contains the book store,
would be given over to pool tables
and perhaps other recreational facili-
ties.

The new structure between the
already-existing buildings would
contain the majority of the facilities
being planned. On the main floor,
which would be on the present
ground level, would be:

—a Chapel and Chaplain’s Office,
situated on either side of the re-
cessed main entrance.

(Continued on Page 4)

 

 

Examinations

All final exams in both the col-
lege and the School of Commerce
and Administration previously
scheduled for Saturday morning
May 21, will be given on Friday-
day afternoon, May 20, at 2 p.m.,
because of the Saturday-morning
conflict with the Selective Service
System College Qualification Test.
Please note revised exam schedule
on Page 2.

Additional note: Classes will meet
on Saturday morning, May 14, but
any student taking the Selective
Service Test on that date will be
excused from all his classes on that

day.

 

 

 

Humer and Sociological theory
dominated the Forensic Union de-
bate on the question of a student-
financed fund to provide scholarships
encouraging worthy Negro students
to attend W&L Tuesday night.

Syd Lewis, Dave Margolies, and
Fred Mindel spoke for the affirma-

ry
negative

Lewis, leading off the
cited the
kinds of ideas as the only way to
a truly “liberal education.”
He said that it has been sociological-

ly proved that if people live and

achieve

‘1
ney

tact
also
achieving
W&L
Washington and Lee could eithe:
s standards to allow the un-
ileged student to be admitted
or could establish a special fund to
nd and underprivileged appli-
ling. Lewis commented

diminish the feelings. He
proposed solution to
this atmosphere

will
gave a
ol

i i?
imWeEr :

de rye

 

pea

1 attlefic

   
   

{ies euch as Har-
taken

vera

rd ave already on

| both oi these steps

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
     

itive while Tersh Baker, Ear! Ber- |
and Chris Mills spoke for the)

program, |
need for exposure to all

work with individuals against whom |
have prejudice, the close con-|

or | Debater Margolies . . .

 

Humor versus Sociology cas

Negro At W&L Debated

Baker, in presenting the first
speech for the negative, cited two
humorous alternatives, which he said
would be desirable. First, he claimed
that W&L could “buy” a Negro to

... & student-sponsered fund?

keep on the premises to allow stu-
dents to have contact with other
racial elements. He said this would
afford two advantages in that a new
Negro would not have to be found
every four years, and that he would
always be available. He said that i!
we had to have Negroes at the
University the idea President
Cole could be utilized to form two
Washington and
Lee and George Washington Carve:
U. This latter
located, he

of

eparate colleges

institution would be

indicated, about “ten

 

or twenty miles down the road.”
Minde! epent much of his time
eharging Baker with trivial and ir-
relevent arguments. He reiterated the
need for new ideas and a clos
eontact with different rac He id
nat he fe} that Wa&L Was a fins
school but lacked the opportunity
to discover people radically different
than the majority of student Minde!
saci that th ident fund would
faye Mare aa token value ollering
encouragement to possible applican
Bat y and Mills spoxe last for th
Megative talking of ine error o
the aflirmat They cited the tet
deney of the Negro community te

 

(Contioued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association
Friday Edition

 

Notes and Comment

The Administration, which has been cooperating with the
student body extensively in preparation for the upcoming
Selective Service Qualification Tests, has had to re-schedule
the E-hour exams scheduled originally for Saturday the 21st,
to Friday afternoon, the 20th. Such a change may be incon-
venient to several students; however, there was no alternative.
You can’t fight city hall; who wants to try the White House?
Like oil and water, the draft test and academic exams just
don’t mix. We can only be (relatively) appreciative that the

exam period was left alone to the extent it was.

While on the subject, it appears to us that the draft test
is something which ought to be taken by all even if a good
time can’t be had. True, there IS a natural antipathy to having
the local SS board even LOOK at individual files; there ARE
the customary rumors that the test will be weighted to the ad-
vantage of math and science students. But other factors ought
to be taken into consideration—such as Dean Atwood’s obser-

President-Elect Jeffress Cites Attitude
And Sets 1966-1967 EC Policy Guides

By BILL JEFFRESS
EC President-Elect

The Executive Committee in 1965-
66 has come of age, not only as an
organ of student government but
also as an instrument of student
opinion and initiative. The change,
I believe, has been subtle and has
not been heralded by momentous
accomplishments or by a flurry of
action. The change is one of attitude,
and is best illustrated by the view-
points expressed by all the candi-
dates in last week’s election. The
lackluster character of the election
no doubt obscurred the nature of this
change, but it becomes clear in com-
paring the attitudes and perform-
ances of Executive Committees prior
to this year. The change is from a
concern solely with “student affairs”
to a real and honest concern with
the problems and the potential of the
university itself,

Under the inspired and progres-

sive leadership of Fred Mindel, the
Executive Committee has begun in
certain areas to question existing
policies and attitudes and to seek
{new ideas and solutions which are
meant to improve the functions of
Washington and Lee as an educa-
tional institution. This atmosphere
of concern has been shown also by
the recent series in the Ring-tum
Phi on “What W&L Lacks Most.”
It has been shown by the initiative
of students in seeking to achieve
the integration of the university, mo-
tivated in many cases not so much
by an egalitarian social philosophy
as by a sincere desire to solve one
of W&L’s biggest immediate prob-
lems. The concern also is evident in
the motivation of students such as
Jim Awad in developing and bringing
forth the Independent Study idea as
a possible program for the encour-
agement of academic responsibility.
All of these examples serve to show

 

an increasing involvement by many

 

students in the welfare of the univer-
sity, but, unfortunately, this attiude
is not yet broadly based among the
student body.
Privilege, Not a Right

During the campaign last week, I
made the statement in the Ring-tum
Phi that the students are the most
important element at a school such
as Washington and Lee, and for this
reason the students can and should
play an active role in helping both
the curricular and extracurricular
policies of the university. This role,
however, is not a right but a privi-
ilege which must be earned and
maintained by the expression and
demonstration of real student con-
cern in making sincere efforts to
work with the faculty for construc-
tive changes. The Executive Com-
mittee, I believe, occupies a unique
position in having not only the op-
portunity but also the responsibility
to generate these efforts and devel-
op this student concern.

 

With this general theme in mind,
I want to examine three areas in
which I see problems which lend
themselves to study and action by
the Executive Committee in the
coming year, and to suggest some
of the solutions to be considered.

Exchange of Ideas

The first of these areas is student
involvement in the educational pro-
cess, Washington and Lee, as a small
university with a low students-to-
faculty ratio, offers an enormous op-
portunity for discussion and ex-
change of ideas between students,
either individually or in small
groups, and professors. Such ex-
change can be in many cases as im-
portant an educational method as are
lecture classes, and it certainly de-
velops in the student the capacity
to communicate and express his
ideas in a way that very few class-
es, excluding some seminars, can.
The opportunity, however, is not

vation that no W&L student should do poorly on the test (can
he say as much for exams?) ; such as Mr. Hershey’s decree
that local boards will not have to use the test results to any
specific degree; such as—most important—the Damoclean
sword handing over the students’ collective head that the class
rank requirements (i.e., upper fourth, half, two-thirds) may
change at any moment. A similar Korean War draft test was
kind to our school; at any rate, the most medicore W&L 18-
to-26-year-old student should compare more than favorably
with the City College valedictorian.

= fF oe

In its ‘Report to the Faculty and Students,”’ the Self-Study
group’s Subcommittee on Fraternities offers several “questions

taken advantage of as it could and
should be. Discussion and controver-
sy are often minimized, and although
there is a very pronounced aca-
demic atmosphere, there is a lack of
real exchange of thought and ideas,
Perhaps part of the lack of in-
tellectual controversy can be traced
to the fraternity system and the
homogeniety of the student body, but
there are ways in which we ean
develop and encourage close student-
faculty exchange, through a meth-
od along the lines of the Princeton
“preceptorial” concept and / or
through the use of informal evening
discussion meetings held indepen-
dently of the regular curriculum.
Traditions

. ” : "he second area which we nee
and recommendations” which deserve no small measure of at- opal ' tr of sae _

. te 2 ‘ . . ‘ , eer. . — : . : - =
tention. “Do fraternities hinder the University? ...” ‘‘Elimi- ditions, their value in the educa-

tional process and the best means of
strengthening them. The question of
enforcement of conventional dress
has received so much attention this

nation of fraternities...” “100 per cent fraternity member-
ship ....” The words aren’t the same, but the melody is famil-
iar: “If it is determined that Washington and Lee should re-

move its sponsorship of the Southern Collegian .. .” (to quote your Gat see omy male @ few
lier Self-Stud comments. My purpose, as was that
an earlier Self-Study report). of every member of the EC this

year, is to continue and to strength-
en the tradition of conventional
dress and the part that it plays in
student attitudes and the distinction
of the university. I question, how-
ever, whether we are making any
contribution to

Fraternities are here to stay; their beneficiaries are as much
the University and city as the student body; the obvious (and
seemingly conclusive) reasons have been heard willingly or no
by everyone.

Unless we are mistaken, student contentment with our

these goals when we

. : ; on ; decide to levy fines on those stu-
fraternity system needs to be reiterated. The Subcommittee dents who stray from the straight
report concludes on a less negative note; yet warning has been and narrow path of dress conven-
tionality. If it is the attitude we

served that major change is being considered. Open discus-
sion on the matter has been scheduled for Tuesday. The op-
portunity must not be ignored.

seek to develop, I think that punish-
ment is totally unjustified. For this
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

—R. S. K.
“What Does W&@L Lack Most?”

Roger Sennott Finds Faults In Goals

MOVE CLOCKS AHEAD TOMORROW FOR DST
Daylight Saving Time begins in Virginia at 2:00 a.m. on

 

 

Of The U niversity

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

  

 

 

 

   

 

  

 

 

  

this Sunday, April 24th. Students are reminded that clocks and Editor's Note: This column is a | tributions of a university to its}As yet, nothing has been done to! As most students know, Rock-
watches should be advanced one hour; D.S.T. ends this year on | part of a series designed to locate | students and the students’ duty to| force these fraternities to settle this| bridge County is not anything like
October 30th. All classes and examinations will be on Da at W&l. Lacks the Most. The | the society they live in. question with their respective na-|a model society. We find a rather
> xamin Y*| view »ints and opinions presented » sec ' . rob- | tional organizations or cease to ex-|high illiteracy rate, extreme an
: ‘ = os re second half of this dual prob ’
light Saving Time beginning Monday. in each article in the series are lem is the curious inability of the | ist at this university. There have re- widespread poverty, racial diserim-
those of their author, and do not present administration and alumni|cently been complaints about re-| ination, a poor public school sys-
* necessarily reflect the editorial | office to raise enough money to carry | ligious discrimination in the choos-| tem (the Office of Education recent-
Revised Exams Schedule policy of the Ring-tum Phi out a few minor changes which they|ing of dormitory counselors. Al-|ly rejected Rockbridge County's
Mr. Sennott is Chairman of | ccom capable of envisioning at the| though these charge are difficult to| plan for schoo! integration), and a
CONTACT 1966 present time. I have oft k substantiate, there is » evidence | Number of other prob! I ,
4 ‘ ‘ en been | substantiate, there is some evidence mber of other problems that have
May 20, 1966, through May 31, 1966 By ROGER S. SENNC tempted to break out in laughter| which points toward their validity.| been ignored by W&L. Other first-
” > aye
. TT when told about the great wealth] Until recently there have also been| rate universities have done much
I would like to analyze briefly the and influence of our alumni and the | some shady goings-on concerning the | to impreve conditions in their areas;
MORNING—9:00 A.M. = AFTERNOON—2:00 PM. shortcomings of W&L in its attempt] parents of many of our students.| recruitment of Negro students. The|¢.g., Yale University and New Hav-
Day Block Examinations Consolidated Examinations [to provide its students with an edu- These individuals who are so vocifer-| present “policy” may remedy pre-;en. Without going further, I feel
i All sections of: cation comparable to that offered at] ous in thelr support of conventional | vious problems in this regard. How-| that I can say with assurance that
first rate American colleges and] dress are curiously silent when mon-|ever, the University’s lack of forth- | W&el has failed miserably to provide
20 May Classes at Block E—M.WF. | “#iversities. In this regard I feel ey is needed to keep W&L in com-| rightness on this issue is deplorable.| public services for the county, the
= ' _v » Ss ‘ that W&L has three major assets] neti: th the ollege i ; state, and the nation
Friday NO EXAMS 10:15 except those otherwise |‘ as peuuion with other colleges anc Isolation mee, 6 alo
an as an educational institution: the rersitie on
scheduled. heuer quate, the 3 a ‘enh aint universities These internal difficulties are mir- Remedies
Sy SUSsE, P prese Sue’ It is rather difficult to explain > let's
— . 4 . ; ‘ é rored rather well in W&L's rela-
?1 May NO EXAMS Military Training 2, 4, 6, 8 policy, and a few highly competent just why W&L's leaders do notl tions with the soci a — - ite i oll this 1 feel that
: . at 45 ‘ ’ i > socie a arge ne “aVingg said a is ee a
a ' (Draft Test) and concerned professor On the “
non negative side Wal has r number formulate bold educational policies} hears very little from either the]! have a duty to suggest possible
= a _ “i ‘bilities one ‘a he ; . k and why they fail te ebtain all but administration or the faculty con-| remedies for the present situation
: : i mu. § ’ be weak-[,.. , ‘ i
23 May Classes at Block G—M.WF.| Classes at Block J—T.TS mann so the entive Gecchenen seen the most meagre funds to carry out} cerning the major problems which]! feel that the initiative in improv-
a sases are > enure es a VOar. Ef... ite sati . ’
Monday | 11:10 exeept those otherwise | 12:05 except those otherwise the maior system, the eradine sve the very limited educational ideas} confront ou: society. If the pro-|ing W&L as an educational and
i : ajc stem, e ading sve- . a hs . i - .
| scheduled scheduled : & *, | they now have. This two-fold prob-[ yerbjal Man from Mars” were to] public service institution lies with
= tem, generally poor facilities, an eb- = sould be due t sfact ' > ‘ale T
Latin 2 oe cian eee em could be due to 4 satisiactioniattend classes and compulsory as-| President Cole. This not to say that
k MW F h 2, 12, 152, 162, 202. 204 . ye a Bani nag oo an —_ with the present state of affairs, a semblies at W&l, he would have|the faculty and the students have
24 May | Classes at Block |]—l F.| French 2, 12, 152, , 202, en SS OPPOrUnity 10F Creauive ahG | ii ited conception of the naturel litile idea of vert rs sibil s regs
- i ; i : i i des poverty, the nature of]|no responsibility in this regard
T ‘ 2:05 exce . orw ; 2, 12, 152, 162 independent study, no junior year . ;
Tuesday : 2:05 except those otherwise a . > a A 2? “ ; j o “ram, the fr : rnity ™ {and purpose of the modern univer- war, the exploitation of labor, and | However, the President of the Uni-
- le _ @oroad program, Tt aternfiil \s- ‘ . J = a . .
scheduled Spanish 2, 12, 152, 162, 202 ns ee tengo: ity, or sheer incompetence. I feell ihe degradation of Negroes by re-| versity should make the first steps
tem, tne V cdergraduate tradet,.,, 4 . .
°5 May Classe t Block B—T TS. | Economics 102 os ; that the answer lies in a combina- spectuble white people. It is not only}in dealing with these problema, If
* WES 1b Bat ei * ” scnoo ete i i . i 7 e . . ‘
Wednesday 8:25 except those otherwise | English 2, 1M , Fold Probl “on of these three elements the lack of discussion of the ills of} the President is satisfied with the
| echoduled Two-Fok robiem — our society which makes W&L ir-| present state of affairs. the othe:
These ills are symptomatic of a ’ relevant, it is also the absence of| groups which I mentioned should
26 May Classes at Block D-—~T.T.S.| Commerce 286 deeper, two-fold problem. The first - addition to the prece ding - “| conerete actions by our University | apply sufficient pressure to get things
na ‘ , “ : . ‘ es he | mark ing e tional o :
Thursday #:20 exeept those otherwise | Political Science 102 part of this deeper problem is the | ark pone ae ——— “““Ttoward bettering our society which moving. If the President decides to
cheduled lack of ability or desire on the part] tors | would a to make a few characterizes WAL, today take the steps that I have sug-
— — . . }of W&L's leadership to formulate|femarks in regard to the extent to Some universities engage in pro-| gested the faeullt ind tudents
27 May Classes alt Block F TTS Mathematics : 6, rR 152, 156 exciting and clearly fefined educa~j W hich W&L 8 OF is NOt ah institution trams to bri candle rps ivile ged should upport him trong! since
Friday at except those otherwise | tional goals. During my three and|that « rver the general public It young people—both white and col-| these actions are likely to run afoul
scheduled s one~-hali years on this campus | have ny feeling that the inadequacy | ,,, d-to their campuses in order tolof the Board of Truste ome par-
i i j } j or the i i *eTrvices pertis ‘ i ;
4 M 4 Classes at Block H T TS i English 152 seen iittie indication that either the : ‘ - icat we performed aid them in « caping tie pove ind lien il uml and Various
‘ an = i y Board of Trustec i he President outdone on ils ” “ degradat i imposed upot ( riul f ire i tow! i tt
sturday 11:10 except those otherwise | History 2 F = ; : : a : j mn legradation impo upon | powerful i i town the
cheduled i oF the University | iware of the erevancy to tn sree ae ve : hem & ceallou affluent ociety pre ure that I i iggesting does
more experimental and this line J would like to an- From conversation with several W&IL | not resul 0 moves on the
0 Ma at Block A—-M.WF. | History 108 trends modern highe “ie moral tenor found Within | administrators. I ean say that W&L | part of the administration then the
Monday except those otherwise Neither ” President V&L communit ™ a how this h 10 intention of providing such a | faculty id tudent have a duty
scheduled i ‘ the ‘ iu al ernal situation affec W&L, } Geal- eded public service in the near fu-|to do what they ean to pre pitate
, B. Lee, nor tl nj eo A he outside worid ive, Othe i e collem nd ‘ sation of President and
| Mays Classes a llock C.M.W.F. Accounting 102 . :
- ' d Gcn ef 1 ? ; 102 104 coin ' , kk #0 ; i< : ati tin ‘ ‘ id fi cou nh ‘ cf er NT) ; sno WwW ll
i d except those otherwise tie é : 4 ‘ mouthpiec fo : wit en ‘ an ‘ ‘ P i a all vard bs
chneduled S stry 2, 12 " —_ ’ =| cre , 7 in ‘ eace ork ore ef ‘ o rd ime
Geology 2, 102, Physics 2 , ind = 1 | st 0 " Wl lucational
_ . < t iseiul n defin n © can ion ‘ giou ti : i pu

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Win, Lose
In Diamond Action

By RON KESSLER

Washington and Lee’s baseball
team broke even this week, de-
feating Lynchburg College Tuesday,
7-6, and dropping one to Bridge-
water yesterday, 2-0.

The Lynchburg game, W&L’s first
victory of the season, was won in
the ninth inning on a squeeze play
by Tom Mitchell scoring pinch-run-
ner Gil Turner.

Lynchburg jumped ahead early
in the game, scoring one in the first
inning and one in the second while
the Generals went scoreless. But
W&L exploded in the fourth, scoring
four runs on base hits by Eric Sis-
ler, Skip Jacobson and Ed Bishop
and a double by Jim Wilson.

The Generals scored another in
the fifth on singles by Sisler and
Luke Crosland, but Lynchburg came
back with four in the sixth on five
walks and two hits to go ahead 6-5.

Replacing starter Jim Cooper in
the sixth inning, Pete Heumann
bore down and held Lynchburg to
one hit for the remainder of the
game. Ed Bishop led off the ninth
by getting on base on an error by
the shortstop, followed by John
Wolf's single to left. Heumann struck
out, but Gil Fitzhugh singled to left
to score Bishop. Turner, running
for Wolf, then scored the winning
run on Mitchell’s well-placed bunt.

Eric Sisler led the team at bat,
going 3 for 4 and scoring one run.
Heuman got credit for the wins as he
gave up one hit and one walk in
the three and one-third innings.

In a not-so-funny comedy of er-
rors W&L lost to Bridgewater Col-
lege, 2-0. The scoring occurred in
the fourth on back-to-back erors
by Sisler and Fitzhugh followed by

 

Track Team Takes 12 Of
17 Events To Batter Elon
In Season’s Second Win

By NEIL KESSLER

Yesterday on Wilson Field the
Washington and Lee track team “put
a smile on the face of our score-
book” (Coach Lord), by trouncing
Elon College 92 to 53 for their sec-
ond win of the outdoor season,

W&L trailed in the meet by as
much as 11 points but swept the
880, pole vault, triple jump, and two-
mile to forge ahead. Of the seven-
teen events held yesterday W&L
lost only five

Pacing the Generals in the victory
were Bill Wildrick, Wes Murfin and
Moby Dowler in the 880; Ned Law-
rence, Ned Crossman, and Gary
Wilkinson in the pole vault; Nelson

Head, Dave Crawley, and Dave
Thornton in the triple jump; and
Lee Johnson, Brad Shinkle, and

Corbet Bryant in the two-mile.

Other first-place winners include
Rick Mynttinen in the javelin, Bob
Stack in the mile, and Jim Thomp-
son in the half-mile. Dave Ennis
and Jeff Kugel took firsts in the
hurdles, while Earl Edwards won the
discus throw.

Next Friday the W&L thinclads
face a strong Old Dominion team on
Wilson Field. This weekend 16 track
and field men travel to Davidson
College to participate in the David-
son Relays, where they are ex-
pected to make a strong showing

Coach Lord has announced that
there will be a mandatory meeting
of the top 20, Monday night at 7:30

in the projection room in the base-
ment of the gym

$bbbO4bO44SS4SSSSFS0 F004
+
Higgins and Irvine
Building Supplies
and Lumber

rr TTT TS

 

4
4
4
“
S
.
4
.
4
4

PPPEEPESESESSESESEOET EOS
SEPESEESESESESSEESEE EO EESS

The
COLLEGE INN

SCPESESSESESSSSESESESEEOTS

 

Shirt Service as You Like it

Bring Your Complete Laundry
to Us

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS
463-3622

*

“Your Campus Neighbors”

two singles to right. The Generals’
only threat came in the second in-
ning when Bishop advanced to sec-
ond on a single by Wolf, but pitch-
er Bill Rasmussen grounded out to
retire the side.

Rasmussen pitched a fine game,
giving up five hits, one walk, and
no earned runs. According to coach
Lyles, “Rasmussen should have won
this one.”

W&L’'s main problem this season
has been hitting. Through the Bridge-
water game, the team’s average has
been .125, Fielding also has room
for improvement, with 15 errors in
three games. However, as coach
Lyles put it, “the team is looking
better every game. Our pitches have
been working hard. If we can keep
up our pitching and start hitting, we
should start to win some ball games.
We have a young team—three-fourth
are freshmen and sophomores. It will
take time, but I’m confident.”

The team travels to Richmond
Wednesday to meet RPI, and plays
Old Dominion here next Saturday.

-

 

Gill Fitzhugh leads off against Bridgewater with single

 

Desire Pays Off For Generals, Says Swan

 

The varsity lacrosse team defeated
Duke in a spirited and hotly con-
tested game at Durham Wednesday
by taking control early in the first
period, and finishing strong. The
visiting Generals gained their vic-
tory, the second of the season, 9-6.

Coach Dana Swan cited this game
as simply a case of the team with
the greater desire to win emerging
victorious . The Generals capitalized
on chances four times in the first
period and seemed to have be-
gun a rout, but Duke stormed back
in the second period to close to
within two goals as they controlled
the ball and repeatedly fed their big
mid-fielder, Andy Beath.

In the second half, the Generals
began to retrive more ground balls
and again took charge. Bruce Jack-
son paced the offense, as he has
done all season, with two tallies in
the fourth period, one a hard ground
shot from his mid-field position and

the other coming from a move
around the crease.
The decisive factor was Blue's

clearing, which was the best of the
season. Goalie Dave Johnson was
most effective in the goal, with 17
saves, and out of it, as he found his
defensemen easily on clears and fre-
quently ran the ball to midfield him-
self,

The Generals, though outshot 44
to 36, had the edge in ground balls
53 to 44. This was the most balanced

ee -

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

offensive effort to date though, as
all the starting attackmen and mid-
fielders scored. Following Jackson's
two, were Jay Bowersox and Pete
Tooker with one each. Chip Chew
and Wick had their most productive
days on attack, each contributing

 

Stickmen Win Second, Beat Duke, 9-6

two assists and a single tally. Billy
Andrews, tough on defense as usual,
dented the nets with his initial tal-
ly of the season. The offensive bal-
ance is evidenced in the statistics
as the nine goals were scored by

| eight different players.

 

 

i i

| Car

tions.

2. Time—You don’t spend

 

soap.

 

 

25C Wash

Can Save You

1. Money—It’s up to $1.75 less expensive than gas sta- |

to return from the gas station.

3. Effort—It takes only 5 minutes and you can wash it
any time you wish. No special clothes or ma-
terials are needed.

4. Wear—Road film and dirt can rob your car’s finish.
Consumer Report states that our soap is act-
ually safer to your car’s finish than regular

Use

Ram-Jet Car Wash

LOCATED BEHIND NEW GREYHOUND STATION

all day waiting for your car

 

 

 

$19.97

97¢

 

 

 

 

Sport and Dress Shirts
$2.29 each—3 for $5.99

Dacron-Cotton Suits

at

ADAIR-HUTTON’S

Sunglasses

GRAND OPENING SPECIALS

THE MOST EXCITING NEW MEN’S SHOP AT

Bermuda Shorts, Madras
Regular $5.95——$3.97

Summer Sport Coats

$14.97

Socks

Regular $1.00—3 for $2.25

Washington Street Entrance

Come in and register for 20 door prizes.

To be awarded April 30—5 p.m.

Adair-Hutton Men’s Shop

I-M aGoGo

 

By CHARLIE BENSINGER

Dear Mom and Dad,

Well, I Knew that if I really tried
hard last week that I could forget
the biggest tradi-
tion of Springs
Weekend, or for
that matter any
big weekend.

Think _ back.
Have you ever |
heard mike troub- |
les at any Univer- |
sity Assembly?
Have you ever
really heard any
university assem-
bly?

Unoffical polls on both questions
have yielded two “No” answers,
though for some reason more peo-
ple answered the second question
in the negative than the first.

Now think back to our concerts.
Have you ever heard a W&L con-
cert without mike trouble? Have
you ever been sober enough to real-
ly hear a concert?

Again the polls have returned ne-
gative answers. What we can’t un-
derstand is the fact that the major-
ity of the answers to the second
question were to the effect that
concerts start too early and the reg-
ulations are too strict.

Why, then, must we suffer through
audio lapses at every concert? They
are enjoyed by neither the students,
nor their dates, nor the entertain-
ers. What a wonderful tradition!

Speaking of traditions, the Mets
seem to be undergoing some sort of
metamorphosis. The Old Man is
gone, and so is the hopelessness of

Bensinger

 

 

Sore Ears Convey Trivia

the club. By the way, there is no
correlation, it’s just that someone
in the office found way to get
some guys that actually know how
the game is meant to be played.
The average age of the Mets’ in-

a

| field may be in the thirties, but the
'| batting average should be above .230,
'|}and with Boyer and Stuart
: is
|| World’s Fair people may sit outside
'|the stadium during every game and

there

a very good chance that the

catch Met-hit homers in hopes of
paying off their deficit.

But as Jimmy Breslin, the author
of Can Anybody Here Play This
Game?, has just said: The Mets now
face the danger of becoming just
mediocre instead of terrible. That
could hurt both their image and their
attendance.

Staying with baseball for a few
more lines, the Dodgers are hanging
in there so far without much help
from the Dandy Duo. When they get
warmed up, the rest of the National
league will be in for trouble.

What has gotten into the Dodgers
is beyond belief. They’ve actually
started hitting. Everybody knows
just how long that will hold up, but
if their season average ends up
above .255, they’ll finish first again.

Incidentally, overheard the other
day: What do you mean ‘Who is
going to win the American League?’
I only follow the Majors!

If you have litttle to do Sunday
morning, I would advise buying a
copy of the Lynchburg paper to
check out the results of tomorrow’s
Lynchburg College track meet. Run-
ning the 880 for the Hornets will

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Mike Hash

Buddy Clarke Bill

SLUODONONNNNUNNANNAANAAAUAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEALAA EAT

Agents in Co-op . . . Fraternities
IN THE DORMITORIES SEE

Ouse Day Service Available
FUNNNQNQQQN0000OOUUUUUANVOOOOQOHAQOGGOOOONGE Does SE ACOA AVP UOAE UOT

MTT
Rockbridge Laundry

and Cleaners
(Across from Troubadour Theatre)

One Stop For
Fluff Dry .. . Dry Cleaning . . . Alterations

Check our Prices

J. D. Humphries
Burke Peter Kintz

“AMMlllllll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THINNGS ARE GOING TO
START JUMPING AGAIN

AT THE CLI.

Antoinette and Pete Neofotis
Are Back |

Best Pizzas around
Hamburgers back to large size

Friendly service again
COME ON DOWN TONIGHT

COLLEGE INN |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Jeffress: Proposes EC Activity

(Continued from page 2)
reason the newly elected Executive
Committee will in May again review
the “Traditions Committee” idea in
determining policy on enforcement
of traditions. Hopefully, we will
bring into being a committee based
on encouragement rather than en-
forcement of tradition.

Student Involvement

The third area that merits our
attention is that of student involve-
ment in the affairs of the student
government itself. The attenion giv-
en the recent election of student
body officers can be described at
the very best as disappointing, but
I realize and regret that the lack
of opposition for the top spot was a
prime cause of this apathy. What dis-
turbs me more is the lack of interest
shown in such things as the ODK
Forum discussion on the NSA ques-
tion and in the open student meet-
ings on the self-study reports. I
hope, through increased and more
effective use of the ODK Forum, and
through increased freshman orien-
tation in functions of the student

government, to alleviate the problem
to a degree, but the impetus here
must ultimately come from the stu-
dents ourselves.

These three areas are by no menas
the only ones that the EC will be
examining in the coming year. I
intend to work for a Junior Year
Abroad program, for a “curriculum
committee” of students to take a
role in matters directly affecting the
curriculum in cooperation with the
faculty, and for the current pro-
posal of the Independent Study Pro-
gram. Finally, although I _ see
little role for the EC as a body in
this area, I intend to work whole-
heartedly to the full extent of my
resources for the integration of
Washington and Lee.

I hope that all these problems and
suggested plans of action will be
actively discussed in the upcoming
class elections, and that students
will make their choices for class
officers on the basis of their own
concept of the role the EC should
play as an organ of student initiative

 

in the coming year.

 

Professors Criticize’ Viet Policy

(Continued from page 1)

The mistakes outlined by Dr.
Caughlin, who formerly taught at
Yale and Toronto Universities, has
been vice-counsel in Saigon and has
done some research in Bangkok,
were four in number. He said our
first mistake was in supporting the
French in Indo China against the
nationalists. Our second was made
when we did not press for the free
elections called for by the Geneva
Convention and backed Ngo Dinh
Diem. Then we supported Diem
when his popularity decayed, making
our third mistake. The fourth mis-
take we are making right now. It

Lynchburg Miss Is Fast
(Continued from page 2)

be, hang on to your track shoes
Coach Lord, a female.

This lady, whose name I cannot
remember, will after the meet begin
her preparations for the Miss Lynch-
burg contest that night. With meas-
urements of 37-25-37 she should
win the swim suit contest and any
race that would otherwise have been
decided by a nose..

Washington and Lee trackmen,
unite! Schedule Lynchburg College
for next year. We may not have
quality in the 880, but boy, will we
have quantity.

Your Loving Daughter,
SHIRLEY POVICH

is our present policy in Viet Nam.
Dr. Caughlin declared it was a
“gross” error to pound hell out of
North Viet Nam.” We can do nothing
by backing “paper premiers” and
refusing to deal with the Viet Nam.

Dr. Caughlin remarked that our
distinetion between communist and
nationalist in the struggle is a false
one. He indicated that the follows
of Ho Chi Minh were more nation-
alistic than the Saigon government.
To the Viets, Ho Chin Minh is a
nationalist first, much like Robert E.
Lee, Dr. Caughlin said. The leader-
ship of Viet Nam cannot be made
in Washington or Saigon. It must be
made by the Vietnamese people.
Help from outside is only resented
by these people.

 

Self-Study and Fraternities

(Continued from page 1)
open meetings, he will prepare a re-
port based on the subcommittee’s
study, the discussion of the Self-
Study Committee itself, and the
points presented in the open meet-
ings. This report will be incorporated
into the Self-Study report section
on student life.

 

General Golfers Drop

The Washington and Lee Varsity
Golf Team dropped to a season rec-
ord of 1-2 Tuesday with a 14-7 defeat

 

at the hands of UVa.

 

 

 

 

SUN. MON. and TUES.

“Bold
adventure!”
—N. Y¥. Times

“Surging
excitement
—N.Y. World-Telegram

”
.

“Ski scenes
are stand-out!”
~—N. ¥. Journal American

 

OF TELEMARK

 

 

 

LEOOPEEPEEEEEEDLED ODED OEESEND IED LERIE EROS EEG OTE

5-6-7 PRIZE—S1.00 Sport Shirt
8-0-16-11-12 PRIZE—83.00 Sport
13-14 PRIZE —83,00 Man's Belt

15-16-17-18-19-20 PRIZE-—$1.50

:
7
es
:
4
*
:
$
+
$
;
;
;

GRAND OPENING

ADAIR-HUTTON MEN’S SHOP

Come and Register for 20 Door Prizes

GRAND PRIZE
$35.00 Gift Certificate

ist PRIZE—Man's Sport Coat $25.00 Value
end PRIZE—A Pair of Farah Ne-lron Slacks $8.00 value
Crd PRIZE—A Pair of HLS, No-lron Slacks $7.00 value

Shirt

Pair of Inter-Weven Crew Sox

TO BE AWARDED

April 30—5 p.m.

You DO NOT have to be present to win

OOOO OSSSSSSS4F ESSE SEESESESES ESE ESOS SESE OESOSS

WILLIAM D. CANNON JR.
Editor-in-Chief

Executive Editor............

The Ring-tum Phi
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and
Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878.

KENNETH BERNHARDT
Business Manager

EDITORIAL BOARD

ma Maurice Fliess

 

Assistant News Editor.

Managing Editor......cscsesesssssseeeeserseeneeneeses
it BE icine

Senior Feature Editor........cccssscsssssseeses

eeeeeeee

<tsiseioteeleaeaiaMeNENEt Howard Epstein
ovsaseninsantiess Mike Dunn, Sam McChesney

Bob Keefe

seit ee Warren Montgomery

 

(Coutinued from page 1)

—three small meeting rooms, suit-
itable for groups of up to 25 persons.
one large meeting room, which
could hold a group of 100, and
which could be screened off into two
meeting rooms of equal size.

a room containing a color televi-
sion and seating up to 65 persons,
—a smaller room, with a black and
white television set and capable of
holding 40 persons.

On a lower level of the new build-
ing adjoining the basement of the
present Co-op, would be a recreation
area containing:

—a Rathskeller, containing booths
seating 72, tables seating 60 with a
piano, juke box, and space suitable
for dancing; possibly serviced by
vending machines. Also under con-
sideration is the suggestion that
3.2 beer might be sold under cer-
tain conditions.

—at the rear of the Rathskeller, a
room containing ping-pong tables.
If the plans presented by the ach-
itects are accepted by the Student
Union committee, at least in essence,
the future Student Union will con-
sist of one complex building hous-
ing recreation areas, meeting and
prectice areas, and the dining Hall.

man of the committee, has stated that
probably no major changes in the
architect's plans will be made by
the committee.

 

Dean Edward C. Atwood, chair- |:

 

telephone offices around the
country. The equipment in them
could operate unattended for

Student Union To Be Enlarged

However, the committee decided
in Wednesday’s meeting to call in
a special architectural consultant,
and also discussed certain small
changes in the overall plan. Consid-
eration of further changes and final
approval of the plans will be under-
taken in meetings of the committee
during the next few weeks. Dean
Atwood emphasizing, however, that
until definite approval is given to
the plans, any number of changes
may be made.

The Student Union Committee is
made up of seven faculty members
and seven students representatives.
Faculty members are Dean Atwood,
Dr. James G. Leyburn, Dr. William
Pusey, Mr. Henry L. Ravenhorst,
Dr. David W. Sprunt, and Mr. James
W. Whitehead.

Student representatives to the
committee are Mac Dobson and Rick
Kurz (representing the Non-Frater-
nity Union), Richard Nash and Lane
Steinger (representing the Execu-
tive Committee), Chuck Griffin and
Barry Vaught (representing the
IFC, and Jim Awad, (at large).

 

i i ag
SEALTEST PLANT
ice—Milk

  

RIE AIR B

We set out to ruin

The many electric motors in those offices
needed lubrication at least once a year. Heat
from the motors dried up the bearing oils,
thus entailing costly annual maintenance.

To stamp out this problem, many tests
were conducted at Bell Telephone
Laboratories. Lubricant engi-
neer George H. Kitchen decided
to do a basic experiment that
would provide a motor with the
worst possible conditions. He deliberately set

 

 

 

Debaters Discuss Negro Fund

(Continued from Page 1)

criticize whites for “tokenism” and
the definite lack of assimilation of
minority groups into campus life
elsewhere. Both Mindel and Lewis
had talked of the advantages of the
program in pleasing the Negro Com-
munity and in encouraging the stu-
dents at W&L to have close contact
with Negroes.

Margolies’ summation dealt with
the two questions he said were
paramount: should Negroes attend
W&L, and should Negroes be en-
couraged to attend by a student-
sponsored fund? He pointed out that
the first question is already an-

 

Theater Expert Raison
To Speak On Troub Play

(Continued from page 1)

Besides being very helpful to the
cast in their interpretations, Mr.
Raison’s talk is designed to help our
audience enjoy the production as
much as possible.”

Mr. Raison, an MFA graduate
of Tulane, is director of theater at
Lycoming College in Williamsport,
Pa. His talk is scheduled to begin
at 8 p.m. in duPont Auditorium.

 

Solicitors Found Guilty;

Receive Fines, Sentences
(Continued from page 1)

their sales campaign paid Miss Hess’
fine; however, Gloria-Sherry Lee
was left behind. Since she was un-
able to pay her fine, she was re-
turned to jail on the 15th and was
released on Wednesday of this week
when Sigma Chi Don Evans paid her
fine.

ee eg

TOWN INN
ABC 5392 oa and off
Sandwiches, Beverages, Dinners,
Seafood
STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
30 N. Main Street

 

 

 

 

some ball bearings and
failed successfully

  

out to ruin some ball bearings
by smearing them with an
icky guck called molybdenum

disulfide (MoS,).

 

swered by a decision of the trustees
and that the second was the real
issue in the debate. He said if the
students took the initiative, the aca-
demic community as well as the
white and Negro communities would
take note and be impressed.
A question period followed.

 

 

YOU CAN EARN UP TO 14 HOURS OF
COLLEGE CREDIT WHILE

STUDYING
THIS SUMMER

IN THE NATION’S CAPITAL
AT THE GEORGE
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY

A program designed to make
the unparalleled resources of
Washington, D.C, available to
students in other colleges and
universities.

JUNE 13-JULY 20
JULY 21-AUGUST 26

© Special 3-week workshops in
Education begin June 13,
duly 5, and July 25

® Air-conditioned classrooms,
library and residence hall

@ Urban campus just four
blocks from the White House

‘The George

Washington
University

 

 

Swock! This solid lubricant, used a certain
way, actually increased the life expectancy

  
  

lubrication.

everything.

. really be said
one that is never tried.

Bell System

American Telephone & Telegraph and Associated Companies

of the ball bearings by a factor
of ten! Now the motors can run
for at least a decade without

We've learned from our
‘failures.’ Our aim: investigate

The only experiment that can

to ‘fail’ is the

 

 
