Green Speaks On Religion and Morals

“Religion and Morals in the| false materialism develops. He added | iously,” he said, “(a feeling which | biography, he noted that they are | in their story.” | gift. There is no formula for faith.”
Twentieth Century” was the topic | that we are all worried about “keep- | comes to everyone sooner or later),| the expressions of men of the Early Green emphasized Jesus’ human- In the last of his three lectures
presented by Canon Bryan Green in| ing up with the Joneses.” According | it is impossible not to bring Jesus | Church who had known Jesus. Al- | ness as the basis of Christian appeal, on the Washington and Lee campus,
a series of three lectures give in| to Canon Green, “Sexual license and | Christ into the question.” | though there are discrepancies in| adding that he seemed to have come Canon Green addressed a large
Lee Chapel, Nov. 3-5. indulgence isn’t the real sin of| Granting that the Cospels are | their accounts, he said, “It is a quite | to men so that all who saw him gathering in Lee Chapel last night

In his discussion Wednesday night,| America and Britain, Alcohol isn’t | difficult to take at face value as! tremendous person who stands out/ could say, “This is a real man. on his topic of “Religion and Mora-

According to Green, Jesus was/ty in the Twentieth Century.” Be-
| much more human than is sometimes| fore beginning his lecture, Canon
| thought: “He asked questions be-| Green expressed thanks to the uni-
cause he was ignorant....He went} versity for the “Virginia friendli-
| to dinner parties.... He helped makej ness” it had shown him and also
| the party go; he was a dynamic per- | expressed gratification to the Wash-

Canon Green dealt with the con-| the worst sin. The worst sin is quite
fusion of man about moral correct- | simply, covetousnes.”
ness in modern society. Canon Green Also in the speech, the Canon
ascertained that with two reliable| stated that individuality has lost its |
sources providing opposite ideas on| meaning and that man is not much |
a certain problem, man is torn be-| more than a statistic in the Techni-

tween the two. He does not know | nical Age. sonality.” ington and Lee students for taking
what to accept as the truth and con-| Three answers to ridding the con- | He was also revolutionary for his| time from a hectic week of studies
fusion develops fusion of the age were presented at | time, said Green, “This idea of gentle| to attend his lectures. The world-

| Jesus meek and mild is rather pa-| famous speaker then announced that
| thetic,” he said. “He turned the Old| he would be returning to the Lex-
| Testament upside down.” ington area for five days next No-
“I’m not painting a sinless Jesus,” | vember as part of a group of clergy-
he continued. “I’m not really con-|men preaching the Christian faith
cerned with orthodoxy.” But “I find| throughout the country.
him tremendous. I find myself saying With the wit and charm that have
that if that is how it is to be a man, | characterized his three lectures, Can-
then I want to ‘be one!” on Green delved into a discussion of
Along with his humanness, said| the importance of the individual in
Green, Jesus’ appeal lies in that,| today’s society accepting Christian-
while other nations had gods of/ ity. Beginning with Resurrection,
|force, and of autocracy, his au-| which he said showed the relation-
thority was one of love. “Jesus loved | ship of man to a living God, and
right to the end, and so he was cru- continuing with a discussion of bap-
cified.... When one stops loving, one | tism, the realization of which he
stops being crucified.” Despite the | described as the badge of a true
fact that human nature is devoted to| Christian, the English clergyman ex-
the idea of “More Me,” he added, | plained that embracing Christianity
“we see the most amazing fact in| involved a partial death of oneself
history—when I reject God's love|for the sake of God, something
1e dosen’t reject me.” | which men found extremely difficult.

The Technical Age has added to] the end of the talk.
man’s confusion, the Canon said.| The first answer was to “strength-
The Technical age has resulted in ajen our love-life.’ We must be our
secularization of the world. Secular-| true selves and give ourseves to our
ization was defined in one sense by|friends at depth. He admitted that
Canon Green as “de-Godding.” With| friends will take advantage of us,
the secularization of the world, the| but that “You'll get loved back if
autonomous man developed whoj| you love.”
thinks that God is a hypothesis and! The second answer is for the in-
that man is the master of all things.| dividual to insist on his own per-
Collective autonomous societies have| sonal integrity. Canon Green stated
developed. Communism is an exam-|that “We are brainwashed every-
ple of this type of society. It believes| where. We are afraid of changing
that man cannot do everything by| our minds. We must fight for what
himself, but as a group, he can do| we believe.”
anything. The final answer is that man must

The Canon added that with the| find that God Himself is the root of
secularization of the world, a “false | all faith. “The part of man’s confu-
materialism” is brought about. He| sion is not just the Technical Age, |
admitted that Christianity is a} but that he is lost and has lost con-|
worldly religion and that even Jesus | tact with Him whose being is God
concerned himself with material; Returning to Lee Chapel to speak |
things—food and clothing—but said| on Thursday night, Green spoke of Green ended with a few comments | He then concluded his lecture with
that some materialism is good. How-| “How I SEE the Place of Jesus; on his own faith—which he called a| some remarks on the various rea-
ever, he said that when man “mis-| Christ in the World Today.” Canon Bryan Green “quiet conviction,”—saying, “1 canj|sons why people refused to accept
takes the goods for the good life” a “Whenever we take religion ser- | “You'll get loved back if you love.” take no credit whatever. Faith is a| Christianity.

wo Che Ring-tum Phi 22"

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

 

 

balls

 

 

 

 

 

EC Passes ODK Reorganization
Girls-In-Dorm Study Continued

Proposals involving the new ODK | contemporary issues,” the Forum will other ODK representative will serve
Leadership Forum, the Student Fi-| consist of a Council and Forumyjas Council secretary. Upon written
nace Committee budget, the Assimi-| proper. The Council will consist of | application from any student bod:
lation Committee, and the possibility all class presidents of both law and/or faculty member, the Council will

 

 

Kizer, Stuart
Read Poetry
Here Nov. 9 \

Next Tuesday night the Seminers
in Literature Committee will present

 

a reading of poetry by C arolyn of allowing girls in upperelass dorms undergraduate schools, all under-| meet to decide whether to convent
Kizer, the founder and editor of were discussed by the E.C. Tuesday. graduate class vice-presidents, two| the Forum. When the Forum, con-
Poetry Northwest, and Dabney The EC passed its plan for the re- EC representatives, a representative | sisting of all interested persons in

Stuart of the W&L English depart-|
ment

According to Dr. G. Francis Drake
the committee's chairman, the read-

organization of the ODK Leadership from the Independent Union, andj the university, meets, the Council
Forum and has presented it to the one from he Judicial Board of the] will formulate an advisory resolu-
ODK for that group's approval. De- | IFC tion to be presented to the E.C
signed to discuss and prepare reso- Presiding officer of the Council | based on the discussion and resolu-
ing is a substitute for a scheduled lutions about “campus affairs and| will be the President of ODK; one| tions of the Forum
lecture by Dr. Leon Edel two weeks |
ago. The event had to be cancelled
because of Dr. Edel’s illness

| — In the Assimilation Committe

‘ ‘ . . bi-weekly report, chairman Sam
EC Appoints Mayfield Chatrman c's canine i

Of Mock Convention Committee _|'s' oresniztions The BC vote

equality” of freshmen with upper-
classmen in assimilation: all student

Described by one faculty member
as “a six-foot blonde Amazon in a
sarong,” Miss Kizer is the author
of two volumes of poems, The Un-
grateful Garden and Knock Upon
Silence. Her works has also appeared
in such magazines as The New York-
er, the Atlantic, The Kenyon Review,
and more than twenty others

Miss Kizer spent the past year in
Parkistan as poet-in-residence for
the U.S. State Department

Ww
EC president Fred Mindel com-jto bring advice and prestige to the fean to permit girls in upperclass
Mr. Stuart, who joined the W&L t 0 ‘Waitin or odot’ vent that Mavyfield’s selection was | convention from prominent Repub-| dorms. The idea was received cooly
faculty this year, has also had poems ( as g G licans across the country; the in official circles, S . The

At its Tuesday night meeting, the Mayfield stated that the plans to :
will now be summoned before the

EC named junior Dave Mayfield as continue the present system of hav-
this vear’s Chairman of the Interim ing nine Regional Managers to serve
Co-Ordinating Committee of W&L's with him, but their “purpose and
1968 Mock Republican Convention.| functions” will be re-examined
“Pathetic Clowns” Mayfield served during the past year Other Mayfield programs will in- And sophomore representative
Lew Davis, Jeff Williams, Don Baker, Jim Settle rehearse as co-chairman of the committee | clude the establishment of a National am Steinger reported on his in-

Assimilation Committee on their fir
offense, and before the E.C. after the
third offense

ith Steve Saunders | Advisory Board for the committec estigation of a possible policy

 

con- ial circles, Steinger noted
published in The New Yorker,

 

   

  

   

 

 

 

tinued investigation of the possi-| Hill believes that girls in these dorms
Poetry, The Antioch Review, and litle ind advantages of incorpor-| would open a sort of Pandora's box
several others. Alfred A Knopt will Hea C6 Davis Wz jams ating the convention a i non-pronht |] ol eorollary chang the drinkin
bring out his first book The Diving 5 a.
Bell, next April “wo seniors hav hese characters represent the uppet (Continued on page 4) (Continued on page 4)
Time of the reading is set for 8:15|} head the ca of the Gecededames : a lower classes respectively Both ss
nm. in duPont Auditorium first production of the year, Samuel Settle and Baker ‘ »phomore FROGS H Id S d A d t =
Dr. Drake also announced the se- | Beckett Waiting for Gedot, which | Settle had two small parts with the Oo un ay u 1 10Ons
lection of three new student mem-| Will be presented November 17-20.| Troubs last year, while Bake: e * 9
bers of the committee. They are They are Lew Dav nd Jeff Wil- ™ amin nis first appearan For The Pirate Of Penzance
Bill Gilbert a senior from Stony lian who will j lay the part o The filth part in the nov that @
Creek Va : Rick Chittum 1 JUFOF Tin two amusi v thetic, de pall t atliail OO ' eine pl yed by Jake Aud mi ) rhe wineipal roles; the Washington and Lee music at
from Staunton; and Tim Webster ing but hopeful clowns pre- | Duvall. The son of Dr. S. P. C. Du- Gilbert { Sullivan operetta] partment, has announced that audi
ophomore from Litehfield. Conn et the human conditiol tts vall. head of the W&L English ce The Pirates of Penzance will be held] ti the orchestra will be he!
masterwork parimen me ne sppeared in the sunday iternoo November 7 stion Tuesday November 16 MK
. . Davi will port Viadimir tne mast in An eenes of the People and , ? nm th wement of the Stu- msement of the Student Union ro
Fall ‘Shenandoah’ Includes tronger and more philesephie of the| in Androcles and the Lion ’ dent Unio fessor Stewart especially ints 4 ted
Poetry By W&L Professor, 7? He , » veteran clo i Stall Chosen ERO j i | big tiring mk oodw |
os . . the Troubadou avin won last] iin tae ss ow : A wie the prin function o
Assorted Fiction, Essays [year’s Best Actor award for his ¢ Mos anes ae ts ae > se ' will he to eummest the
wterization of Shylock in Shak: oe ect ; : ad , i i lire< ) ‘ _ . n Pirates of Penzance duction. Pro
The Autumn ue of “Shenan-| ...... Merchant of Venice ' ; _ ‘ r . : - : = F . Lat ‘ ’ w Ro K. R ak ae oh that ho hem
doah Wa&L literary Makazite Othe pli n wv ‘ j : i a ite ‘wa = . pie , Seed Ad r ‘ . o wu mperett m March : aan a a: one
will incluck poem \ Dabri i ake a wahrad I === fuction lo Hole ne group's | Dave astete 16.19 Waddell Element Ghana 7 ;
Risen : oo — amg Pays | preside will fill the important pest | Convention Chairman : Lexineto ke ese circumstances
stuart, instructor in English Journes into Night and An Enemy) a meen aioe al : i we th —< 5
joined th universit cult of the People, He eu erve| ' ae er dumm, ak the —t ; po ) we efflicien I FROGS co i ingeme i
September rvit he Trou wine di- aaa Si, Mel = id ckuround work, combined } ) “ pure ond = . '
Stuart will have his fir bok . ; =| i ‘ mint of of Wasi to 1 La \ Me Sie » the .
poet The Diving Beil,” publ Williames Cast : | pro onaliam M ! ile + the tow # } ely t ti ,
rivy next eu A rat of lich \W 10 4 i bese al . BA Ml I : 1) e past ) ' W .
nond, he is a graduate of Davidso 1 compl e| Fulbright Scholarships : #f the Mock ( ‘ e been extremely success-| Leo, VMI Lexingto
College i Hi wd Univer ' ‘ cal 0 pe Dr. Charles W. Turner has an- } ’ | work” fol- | ' = , eens Pinafore M '
The Autumn ic of “Shenan- | enc W&l yta Merchant = younced that all Fulbright Schol- | # fun. The | {9 | folanthe (1965), I id ‘ sh
joah,” to be published in about three | ef Venice ivy Purgatory. L arship applications must be com- f Wal . os - ) e the | tj 7
week also will contain fiction 55 ul ” 6 ed i pleted and returned to him before led rf j l ~~ A Ove , , | N 4 Dp
Robic Macaulk nd Jeune H clio 7 f KhO The Brute, November 6 ‘ , , . do , lolanthe “I ; Audito i M H
Ford, ¢ ay Richard Wilbu ) lal ) rf j ‘ Three sep e types of : — ' ' Vl ) \ i] Pp r
John Berryn un and Frederick Hofi ' : { ' . ‘ i ; " , ! ’ Ne id
man, poet by Adrien Stoutendu \ ; ‘ } =) ‘ shelin ole le oe wnd : , ¢ Pu : ie 4 kK i ‘ ;
nd other ind review W. Kj , , r i De pane age wa } ‘ c Lil lolanthe HMMS Pinafore
Hone i Stephetr siepancne a ‘ i Lack ‘ rvie ' ette Pro Re is nu e<l ‘ 1 rehear
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

Friday Edition

Chee And Effective Work

Mr. Saunders in the Tuesday edition of the Ring-tum Phi
presented a barrage of criticism concerning the abolishment
of Saturday Classes. These criticisms, along with both the posi-
tive and negative points of Richard Nash last week, have all
been negatively oriented.

We feel that if the student is to make an intelligent decision
concerning Saturday classes, he must look for positive reasons
in favor of change or keeping the present system.

Such change should not be based upon mere social con-
veniences. If such a change is made it must be for a legitimate
academic purpose.

Obviously, many students will abuse the privilege. Obvious-
ly, for many it will allow for longer road trips. However, are
there students who would use this reallotment of time usefully?
Would it create for both student and professor a more con-
dusive atmosphere in which to produce quality work? If either
of these contentions is justified then there is strong reason to
seriously consider this proposal. Even if only 20 per cent of
the student body used this time wisely, are we to penalize those
students?

The entire question centers around distributing two or
three hours on Saturday morning over five afternoons during
the week. This is not quite as burdensome as Mr. Saunders
suggests. In fact such a redistribution might lead to a better
academic atmosphere than we now enjoy. We base our conten-
tions on three factors. Others could be mentioned, but we feel
these to be the most significant.

Effective Work

As our academic program is presently set up both students
and professors are involved in active preparation for classes
every day. On Saturday they must attend classes and on Sunday
they must prepare for Monday’s work.

Psychological surveys in industry clearly indicate that work-
ers accomplish better quality work during a shorter work week.
They also indicate that there is a direct relationship between
worker productivity per hour and the number of hours on the
job,

Our point is this. Because we are involved in a constant
“grind” that seemingly never ends the quality of the work suf-
fers, and our effective production per hour is seriously re-
stricted. We feel this fact is clearly reflected in growing in-
difference and apathy on the part of the students.

Inserting a break into our work week could possibly reverse
this trend and actually lead to improvement in both the quality
and quantity of the work produced.

This may have the same effect on professors. Under our
present system professors are required to devote six days a
week to classroom lecture. Inserting a free day from the class-
room would allow them to do more research and better prepare
their material for classroom lecture. The result would be a more
effective job of teaching while they were in the classroom.

Social Life

Could an extension of our social calendar actually aid our
academic program?

To say the least, a satisfactory social life in Lexington is
difficult by the six-day week. Attaining a satisfactory social life
under these conditions has become a preoccupation for many
students.

Making the social life more convenient may lead some
students to put this phase of their college life into a better per-
spective. By this we mean the student is more apt to confine
social activities to the weekend and concentrate more on aca-
demics the other five days.

Scheduling Benefits

The five-day week would certainly have some positive bene-
fits in many courses, Today many classes, especially upperclass
courses, are better adapted to 90-minute sessions than 55-
minutes.

For example, courses which revolve on student-professor
discussion and mutual exchange of ideas would certainly bene-
fit from the extended period. Longer classes would have a
second benefit in that transitions in material would not be brok-
en into as many small segments and time now spent rehashing
old material in order to work into the subject could be devotec
to more discussions, and illustration of points.

The Friday Ring-tum Phi favors this proposal but feels
each student should make up his own mind after seriously con-
sidering both the pros and cons of such a move and vote in
next Wednesday's referendum.

Che Ring-tum Pht
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college
It is printed by the Journaliem Laboratory Press, Washington and
Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia
Entered as second clase matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878

WILLIAM D. CANNON JR KENNETH BERNHARDT
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager

EPNTORIAL BOARD

far

Maurice Fliess

Howard Epstein

Rusty Meyer, Bob Keele
Sam McChesney

Mike Dunn

Kaz Herchold

Lock Handley

ior Garry Apgar

Executive Editor
Managing Editor

Assistant Managing Editor
« Editor

 
  

 

Photog: phe t Pat Arey Steve Sharp
Fditorial Conwultant Tom White
Co-Business Manager Jim Redenbaugh

By JIM AWAD

Official rush week ended six weeks
ago. Many houses, though, were dis-
satisfied with the
number of pledges
in their ranks, so
they initiated a
massive deferred

rush program.
Unfortunately,
along with this
rush has come a

number of dis-
tasteful practices.
You might call

 

them “dirty rush,”
“devious rush,” or
just “rotten rush.” The point to be
made here is that such practices
are going to seriously hamper fra-
ternities at W&L.

Let’s briefly examine what these
practices are rumored to be (and I
want to emphasize the word “ru-
mor’). First, there’s the rotten tac-
tic or rushing the high-pressuring
boys who already have pledge pins
on. Then there’s the old practice of
screaming “fish house,” “animals,”
“drunks,” and “they’re on the way
down.” Also rumored is that some
houses are showing deferred rushees
their pledging ceremonies in hopes
of snowing them. Finally, there's the
capitalizing on any misfortune an-
other fraternity might have encount-
ered in the past few years.

Granted, a lot of what’s going on
isn’t technically “dirty rush,” but no
matter what you call it, it not
going to help fraternities at W&L.

I'm not going to mention the ele-
ments of personal integrity, respect
for other fraternities, etc., but they
do play a role.

What I do want to emphasize is
that fraternities all over the coun-

Awad

is

~~

 

Millard Calls
Newest Dylan
‘Album Uneven

|
By STEVE MILLARD

| When folk song in both its musi-
cal and topical aspects responded to
the complexity of urbanized society,
the entire idiom was reborn. In spite
of the occasional wails from purists
who ery the lack of “authenticity”
in anyone who is vaguely literate or
lives within two hundred miles of a
city, most scholars have come to ac-
cept the validity of serious urban
folksingers.

The best of this group, although
subject to intense commercial ex-
posure, have continued to grow and
managed to maintain their integrity.
Today's column focuses on a new
and somewhat different effort from
one of the best-known artists in the
field.

Bob Dylan's latest release, High-
way 61 Revisited (Columbia) show-
cases both the highest potentialities
and worst excesses of the man’s
unique stye. As in his previous two
abums, Dylan continues to move
away from his earlier emphasis on
general topical or “protest” material;
more and more, his songs present
protest through the depiction of in-
dividuals

A motley crew they are, too—the
down-and-out of every description
|Folk songs always have spoken for
the oppressed, and Dylan has stood
squarely on this tradition with his
isympathy for the “ragged clowns”
of our world. There is nothing of
the clown, however, about the peo-
| ple we meet on Highway 61. “Fright-
| ening” would be a better description
| The effectiveness of his effort
varies greatly from one song to the
| next. Dylan's work has been marred
lon oceasion by two major flaws: his
lyrics sometimes pass from the poetic
|to the pretentious, and his
harsh musical style sometimes seems
inappropriate or simply boring. The
two defects converge in one spol on
this album, an eleven-minute opus
called “Desolation Row,” in which he
entire zoo of unior-
tunate characters. Here the
weems plodding and the melody rep-
etitious (after eleven minutes this

 

 

 

nasal

catalogues an
beat

rete maddening) and the subject
matter just doesnt hold up beyond
the first [our minutes or so

The approach can work, however

 

it comes through in spades on
"The Ballad of a Thin
Dvyian depicts a bour-
walks into
and
Suddenly

out of plac ‘

and
one number
|Man.” Here
type as he
freak

description

veo u Poon
fille d
every

Mi

the

with Oulcastsa of

i

Jones’ who i not
ire ak:

deli

actual

and Dylan takes a grue-

sore mht in the turnabout
The

tt:

 

characters correspond
ideshow

th a

io a acvuen if a cireu

wut the listener can accept

eflective something

cont rontai ved

j (Continued on page 4)

oul a

mid

iffiagery

mn wilh ONE «4

 

 

try are in hot water. Every day you
hear that such and such a chapter
of such and such a fraternity has
been closed for various reasons.
Some day the big guns are going to
be aimed at the “little 18” of W&L.
It may not happen soon, but it’s
going to happen, and we'd better
start preparing for it now.

The practices hinted at above are,
to say the least, not helping in
this preparation.

First of all, when one house finds
out that another house is “dirty”
rushing (I use the term liberally), a
tremendous amount of antagonism is

“But Dr. Starling, the mace has been overdue for five weeks!”

 

built up. Specifically, if two houses
are rushing the same boy and one
house gets him because of “dirty”
rush, then the word “hate” midly
describes the latter house’s feeling
for the former house. Some houses
are already eagerly awaiting the
snowball season so that they can
trash other houses. And from rea-
sonable sources, the attacks are go-
ing to make last year’s mutilation
of the DU house seem mild. But
the antagonism doesn’t stop here; it
is easily carried over to the football
field, the wrestling mat, and the
locker room. “Get those I-felt-a-

 

 

 

 

**. .. Has Done the State a Great Service”

 

Awad Cites Rotten Rush of Some Houses
As Deteriorating Relationship on Campus

thigh’s” is the battleery. And certain-
ly actions such as these will not
help fraternities to justify their ex-
istence when they are being cross-
examined.

Secondly, “dirty” rush might very
well be equated to cheating. The
dictionary defines cheating as the
practice of fraud or trickery. Cer-
tainly showing a boy your pledge
ceremony is practicing trickery, and
certainly calling a good party house
“animals” practicing fraud. The
point to be made, though, is that if
you can cheat in one area, why can’t

(Continued on page 4)

is

DYSAyf{ pts

 

| AMACE-ING

 

Hartin Sees GOP Gain, Split in Vote

By LIN HARTIN

Last Tuesday's election aroused
more interest and excitement than
an off year has seen in a long time.
Voters turned out in record numbers
to decide especially heated contests
in Virginia and New York, as well
as a number of other cities and
states.

It is impossible, I think, to draw
any definite conclusions or forecasts
about the 1966 general elections from
last Tuesday's results. The contests
were too scattered and the political
situation at this time seems to be
entirely without precedent.

 

have forced the Democratic ticket to
campaign on these issues. In doing
this, the Republicans have caused
the once all powerful and unques-
tioned Democratic machine to offer
more responsible leadership. Thus we
see Mills Godwin, onetime staunch
segregationist, making an about-
face and offering the state a respon-
sible, progressive administration. Al-
though its ticket went down in de-
feat, the Republican Party has donc
the state a great service and its con-
tinued strength will insure a healthy |
political situation.

The situation in New York is a}

v York City
ed John Lindsay to elect him with-
out those that Buckley drew away
It has been argued and may well be
true that Buckley took a large num-
ber of away

ple in N who support-

votes from Beame in-
Lindsay and thus assured
Lindsay's victory. However, I think
that Mr. Lindsay most probably owes

liberal

stead of

to Democrats to
whom his coalition ticket had great
appeal

his victory

If thi the case, then in what
condition is New York's Democratic
Party after its defeat. Frankly, I
think that it is in a very strong

Nevertheless, the two most signi-| 800d bit more complicated. First, | position. Party leadership will prob-
ficant elections, that of Mills E,| why did William Buckley run for | ably fall to reform minded Demo-
Godwin as governor and John | the office of mayor? Most people feel|crats whe are not part of Mayor
Lindsay as mayor of New York | that he wanted to win enough votes | Wagner's organization and who also
brought out some very interesting| to defeat John Lindsay. This would| are not under the shadow of the
factors and should be considered | mean a significant defeat for the Re-| traditional party bosses as was
carefully publican Party, but it would be a| Beame

The advent of strong opposition | defeated party that Buckley and| Lind victory puts the entire
from the Republican Party in Vir-| other Goldwater-type Republicans| New York Republican Party in the
ginia has brought a long overdue| could control. Conservative control | })},, | eamp. How powerful this will
and most welcom« breath of fresh air | of the New York party would be a} }, and Mr. Lindsay's own political
to this State's polities. Unlike most | #t¢ a boost to conservative control | future nationally depends on how
other Southern states, Virginia's Re-| Of the national party structure uccessiul the conservatives are in
publican Party is not dominated by However, Mr. Lindsay was not de | thei efforts to maintain control of
racial extremists. The party and the | leated He was els cted by a consider~ | the party l am led to believe that
man who headed its ticket are more | able margin. This is clearly and un- | the spit in he Republican Party is
or less moderate. They have brought questionably a defeat for the con- | going to | ‘round for a very long
to the front important issues and ' servative There were enough peo- ‘ time

Students Destroy Rural Peace With Hot Rods

Judge Castigates W&L Speed Demons

By LOUIS N. GLEE
Til be darned if you W&L [fellow
aint the rowdiest, most un awahbid-

pack Ive ever
You're eve

NOfse iat a 2A

:
ni

tial

 

Used to ork out
ol Buena
The “DEES

were i

Vista

  

   

 

v=<eigh M on in Tex-
ace Revolving Sign v. The Old Ladies
nm here to Fairfield

that cia The

i

You

mou fro

PeHICTIIMT

 

 

SLOP-—Southern Ladi Orderin
Picture quen demanded that th }
lexaco be restrained from re-|
0 n over Main Street in order:
» restore Lexington inte bellum le
watty. | just teld SLOP that the
ign reall revolve ovet highway |
w. I Lord High Traflie Magis- |
i © lor nothing
But back to you V-8 mania I'm
no n you're bad bo No
You're hor le, W ‘ roud of oul
woLbit ; i Here Fa “ul ou per | n
Charl mock ith pater
of t rubber. I rember one of
ou not itiié igi Hust ruining
iiternoot when it came flyin
Thurlow Weed D parade
f screeched so loud that it drown
' oul he high schoo! band. Got no
consideration whatever. Another on
| ou at) eam Pit rou }
own one Saturd mornin with

I wor in Ue

i
curv
ind oUure who Ww
iF ’

1 de ) K I

ny illic

, ' like ou re
w Oo weak the
ait Ine } }
ce n w elwe. Stand

‘ i i

> re ) oud slow down
vl ‘ ood ld be out of
‘ ;

Wh ‘ ape uf
You i yu $77.50
) ‘ ! Plu
. to te h vo

‘
y j ‘

‘ i mn

i 4 : | i

(Continued from page 2)
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Travel To
Sewanee on Saturday

Washington and Lee will be seek-
ing, among other things, its first
College Athletic Conference victory
of the season Saturday when the
Generals travel to Tennessee to
meet Sewanee’s Purple Tigers.

A W&L win this weekend would
throw the CAC race into sudden
confusion since the Tigers currently
lead the league with a 2-0 mark.
The Generals are not unfamiliar
with the spoiler’s role, having tum-
bled an overwhelmingly favored
Sewanee team at last year’s Home-
comings 11-6. Once again decided
underdogs in Saturday’s game, the
Generals face a trying task, but the
sort of task they’ve performed to
Sewanee’s detriment in the past.

Sewanee enters the game with a
sole blemish on an otherwise im-
pressive record, that a 29-6 trounc-
ing at the hands of Austin College.
The Tiger offense is rolling along
at over 30 points and 350 yards per
game. Led by tailback Bill John-
son, a Little All-America candidate
who's ranked 12th among the na-
tion’s small college rushers with
683 yards in 98 carries, Sewanee’s
Tigers back a powerful wallop. Rusty
Adcock and Charlie Gignilliat com-
plement a potent running game
which features the single wing.

Stopping Johnson appears to be
the key to defeating Sewanee. The
Purple Tigers have lost only twice
in the past two and both
times Johnson rushed for negligible
yardage. When W&L turned the trick
last season, he managed only a
paltry twelve yards. Against Austin,
Johnson picked up seven.

Linebacker Paul Tessman leads a
tenacious defense which has suffler-
ed only one lapse so far this fall,
and that against Austin. The Tigers
have been particularly obstinate on
those rare occasions when the op-
position managed to get within their
twenty yard line.

The Generals come into the game
off a crushing victory over Bridge-
water, 41-13. Coach McLaughlin un-
veiled last Saturday a welcome ad-
dition to a flailing offense in the
person of sophomore fullback, Bill
McDavid. Soph quarterback Andy
Bloom found the range once again
last weekend, flipping two touch-
down passes. A strong passing game
figured prominently in W&L’s two
victories this season. The Generals
will once again have to take to the
air, and successfully, to pose a threat
for Sewanee.

Injuries, though, still plague the
W&L camp. Presently, half a dozen
key performers are wearing green
jerseys, at least two being doubtful
starters on Saturday. Tackle Logan
Bullitt and halfback John Bogart
have been hampered with leg trouble
although they have responded to
treatment. Charlie Myers still re-

years,

 

TOWN INN

ABC 5392 on and off
Sandwiches, Beverages, Dinners,
Seafood

STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
30 N. Main Street

 

 

 

Shirt Service as You Like it

Bring Your Complete Laundry
to Us

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS
163-3622
5d

“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

 

Washington and Lee's

Own Postage Stamp

Issued by the US. Pest Office
Dept, in 1919 to honer the Uni-
versity’s 200th anniversary. Now
a collector's item lised at Ie
apiece in philately catalogues, but
still good for Se postage. Add a
Ze stamp and use on all your let.
ters, Send 82.00 for 20 Washington
and Lee stamps to Littleflower
Stamps, Box 287, Keval Oak,
Mich, 48068,

 

 

 

Enter the

Football Contest

 

mains on the injured list and Bryant
Kendrick is nursing a broken finger
which will probably exclude him
from future service this season.

Nevertheless, McDavid, Bloom,
tackle Jerry Croston, and halfback
Tom Pittman have filled in capably,
particularly last week against
Bridgewater.

An alert defense scored two touch-
downs and_ repeatedly forced
Bridgewater mistakes. W&L’s defe-
sive unit has played well all season.

Sewanee, however, provides the real
test.
It will be Homecoming weekend

in Sewanee, Tennessee, and that may

be all the incentive the Generals

will need.
W&L Opponents
55 lst Downs Rushing 40
23 Ist Downs Passing 30
1] Ist Downs Penalty 1
89 Total Ist Downs 71
320 Rushing plays 261
996 Net Yds. Rushing 602
3.0 Av. Rushing Gain 2.3
113 Passes Attempted 124
41 Passes Completed 58

9 Had Intercepted 10
503 Net Yds. Passing 778
1969

Total Offense 1380

Duckwall, Freshman Boost
W&XL’s Links Prospects

The Washington and Lee Golf
Team is beginning to take shape for
the 1966 season. Returning veterans
are co-captains Ed Crosland and
Roger Sennott, Jim Fulwider, Bob
Duckwall, and Jeff Skarda. Rookies
who have looked good are freshmen
Bobby Mathews and Lex Tarumianz
and junior Tracy Duggan.

Crosland is very excited by the
team’s prospects this year. The big-
gest addition to the team is the
turn of Duckwall, who played in
either the number one or two spots
depending on the opposition. Bob did
not play last year in order to con-
centrate on his studies, but this year
feels that he can combine golf and
studies without difficulty.

re-

Freshman Mathews also appears to
be capable of giving the team a big
lift this year. He was one of the out-
standing high school golfers in the
Richmond area last year

Crosland, who was the outstanding
golfer last season, is looking forward
to another successful season. Ed
had his handicap down to scratch as
of last summer.

 

 

_Generals rushing to Sewanee tomorrow.

team takes the field
afternoon against Roanoke
College. Roanoke, a fellow member
of the Virginia Intercollegiate Soc-
cer Association, brings a 3-5 record
into the game. W&L’s season ledger
stands currently at 5-3.

The General booters have two re-
maining games to play, that against
Roanoke and the U.Va. game next
Tuesday afternoon in Charlottes-
ville, before entering the state tour-
nament in Ashland on November 12
and 13. The outcome of these two
games will go a long way towards
determining the Generals’ seeding
in the tournament,

Presently the team apepars in fine
physical shape. Co-captain Dave
Redmond has almost completely re-
cuperated from a back injury and
was able to play last Saturday
against Eastern Mennonite. Only; &
Allen Craig is relatively hampered,
and that with a minor injury.

In reviewing the season,

soccer
Friday

Coach
Cocecccececccesececesese

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

ve Appliances

Adair-Hutton, Inc.

Lexington, Virginia

ve Headquarters for Men’s Wear
vy Gifts, Items for the Home

We Welcome Your Charge Account

Tat if «

Valse mal

 

New Easy Way To Save

First National Bank
has opened a DRIVE IN BRANCH located at the
shopping center

We welcome the opportunity to meet your banking needs.

a mt a

Yes ak

© COOH HHEHHHHOHHHOSEHOHEHEOEEHOHHHEHESEHEHEHHHSOHES HEHEHE SEHOHEHEHEOHO ETS

here

 

 

Tim Henry,

 

Wes Horner,

serve recognition.

out

ol

still
gible
must

him,
before.

discover
grand old line,
Triton!”

NOTICE

President Irving Forbush has
nounced that despite the fine turn-
the org
» MMMS,

available.

ranizational
a few
In order
membership,
the origin of

Phone

Soian Toon In Good Céndition
For Game With Roanoke Today

The Washington and Lee varsity | Joe Lyles praised particularly sev-
eral outstanding players. Co-captain
Dave Kirkpatrick, and
Brad Shinkle have led the Generals
in scoring in addition to sparking
the rest of the offense.
Redmond,
ner,

Defensively,
Fred Skin-
and freshman Scott Fechnay de-

an-| off for

meeting
positions are
to be eli-
candidates
that
stop

as | and PiKA in that order,

“But you can
number

I-M aGoGo

 

By CHARLIE BENSINGER
Dear Mom and Dad.

Last week your reporter
and ‘behind in his 2:00-3:00 labors.
But now a
a reversal of form, or perhaps even
going so far as to
be behind in both
(have a tranquil-
izer mother).

We eves
intend to give IM
action ithe major
emphasis of this
week’s column,
and you had bet-
ter enjoy it—you’ll
never see it again!

Just because it
is November,
there’s no reason why we can’t fin-
ally give ‘the tennis and golf results.
Ergo, in the final tennis competition
it was Phi Delt, then Sigma Nu,
and ‘then a tie between SAE and
KA. Like we said, SAE just can’t

miss. Sure!

Bensinger

In golf the big winner was SPE,
| followed by Phi Delt (could this be
the year of the Phi Delts?), Sigma
Chi, and Lambda Chi.

Looking at the turkeys, we think
PiKA won ,with Sigma Chi second,
Delt Third, and Phi Ep fourth. We're
really not sure as there was a cock-
tail party going on at this time.

Now for football. Two leagues
have been decided, one is in a tie,
and the other looks safe (that is
relative to our other picks, with
which we have done so well). ZBT
and Pi Phi have won their leagues,
while Kappa Sig and DU will play-
the League C crown. Phi
Delt seems to be the eventual win-
ner of League B (thank you Birnie
Harper and Mike Lawrence for your
great scouting reports).

Turning to the aquatic sport of
swimming, Norris Eastman thinks
that the big fishes were SPE, Delt
but he isn’t
positive yet (could he have been at

 

was up
to date in his 8:25-1:00 endeavors

“return to normaley”—

 

 

Charlie Pops Cork; Results!

the cocktail party too?)

Now we are up to date, except
for wrestling and bowling. That
much we'll worry about later.

Therefore, we are down to the
filler (it’s much more fun anyhow).
Point 1—When will the Hill realize
that the wrestling team has the best
all-time record here at W&L and
allot coach Miller funds for a decent
practice area? With ‘the outstanding
job that he has done against schools
many times larger and subsidized to
boot, he deserves some help.

Point 2—Congratulations to David
Fleischer for naming Marion Motley
as Cleveland’s first great fullback.

At 5:58 last Friday he burst into

the ante-bellum mansion of your
columnist shouting, “Motley, Mot-
ley.” When it came to light that he
was answering the question and not
giving his views on us (see how
the editorial “we” spreads the
blame), he had won a bottle of the
finest champagne ‘that money can
buy. You see David, some good
comes out of living next door after-
all.
Your Loving Son,

Red Smith

 

Notice

Monday, November 8, is the dead-
line for the submission of manu-
scripts to Ariel for its autumn is-
sue.

The Ariel staff will meet both
Tuesday night and Thursday night
next week to seelet manuscripts for -
the year’s first issue, tentatively
scheduled for publication on No-
vember 22. Both meetings will be
at 7:00 in Room 27 of the Student
Union.

eee
The ;
COLLEGE INN

 

Pooneeeeoooedooroegeeged

 

{ttrooseeeeeeonoeeeeseTT Hee EeESEEETEDODEDTDDEEEETTT TET OOOO SEEOEOOOSES

WHICH WAY IS YOUR PERSONALITY WARPED?

Don't jump to any quick conclusions! Capitol Records has thoughtfully
provided you a foolproof method for answering this question and two equally

si
$
:

t
:
|
:
t
i
$
:
¢
;
Ry
:
:
:
&
;
:

burning issues:

Is Our Society Going To Pot? and Are You Ready To Hear

 

 

SEX AND THE |

 

ART D TAE cael
OO OLL EGE BOYS

 
    

Twain”

ART BUCHWALD?

Pictured here is the first and only record
made by nationally-syndicated columnist Art
Buchwald, You may or may not know of this
fellow. No matter. Buchwald is either:

a) “The most comic American since Mark

b) ‘Nothing more than a writer of
unadulterated rot”

Now with that in mind, you can see why we're afraid this album could fall into the wrong
hands. To prevent that possibility, we've designed the little quiz you are about to take.
DO NOT DIVULGE YOUR SCORE!

 

TRUE FALSE

 

1) The Russians scramble every third word of Mr, Buchwald’s column
to confuse the C.1A.

2) The Louvre can be run in under six minutes.
3) Arthritis is unavailable in Palm Beach, Florida.

4) The best reason for contributing to charity is getting your picture

taken.

5) There is a drastic shortage of Communists in the U.S,
6) Every American city should have a resident Communist.

7) J, Edgar Hoover is a fictional character appearing in the Reader's

Digest.

8) The majority of college men believe in chastity.
9) College girls don't respect boys who ‘‘give in.”

10)

A Harvard boy wouldn't think of “going all the way” with a girl;

besides, he wouldn't even know what it meant.

 

 

 

 

 

jureBe 360) ey) eye)

‘21, S@7891IPUT UOeMjeq Ut 10908 Avy

"Aeme WyRi PIEMYONG Wy s00y 10710q P,NOA HOI OF ‘HOIG O4,NOA SeREdIPU! OOT JO 81008 y
"‘plemyong wy vo
OW) ANCA 8)5EM 1,U0g ‘SUOTSEND Pidnys Aq Pe;OOs Oq 1,UBD NOA Seyed!PUT O JO 810908 Y ‘NOILLVILIUNdNDINI

for those who qualify only.

"OB/0) As@AS 10) O HOSINOA AIT [GFL A10A@ 105 SyUIOd g p/e8/NOA OAID (ONINODS

 

 

SEX AND THE COLLEGE BOY

by ART BUCHWALD

\

   

Campus Corner

25 South Jefferson

Lexington, Virginia
poocoococoooococoooooosoooocososccooooooosooooooososocococoocococoocent
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

SIANLEY WAKNiR

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA, | HOBART 3-3434 |

 

 

FRL-TUES., Nov. 5-9
ae. 7
Whoop-itup = |

funny
western!:"':

io

*
:
one

oe etersy

.

  

    
 
 

“tees

a HAROLD HECHT Agee

c
BALLOU

ssa eeOOEEEAitaietiamomimeneiil

 

 

(Continued from page 2)

you cheat in another? And I am
sure that this type of cheating will
not confine itself to rush alone in
the future—if we don’t do something
now. Soon success will become so
important that ineligible players will
be used in intramural games, cold
quiz files will be destroyed, etc. And
certainly this won’t be helping fra-
ternities to justify their existence.
Finally, the inevitable outcome
will be an atempt on the part of the

Rak ie

SUN.-MON.-TUES,

THE MOST TALKED-ABOUT
AND FOUGHT-ABOUT FILM!

The
[OVERS

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

men

 

Awad Attacks ‘Dirty’ Rushing

administration to straighten things
out. Now, we all know that frater-
nities everywhere are suspicious of
their respective university adminis-
trations, and W&L is no exception.
Therefore, we might witness a rapid-
ly deteriorating relationship be-
tween the fraternities and the ad-
ministration at W&L.

And then the stage will be set for
the boards to be put on the doors
of the fraternity houses.

I'm not saying that this is what's
going to happen. But it is possible;
therefore, the fraternities should
take a responsible role now, and nip
the whole affair in the bud.

It all starts at the bottom and
builds up. So why don’t the respec-
tive fraternities concentrate on their
respective strong points and relegate
“dirty” rush to the pages of history?
It is better than relegating fraterni-
ties to the pages of history.

 

Mayfield Outlines Policy

(Continued from page 1)
organization so that donations to it
would be tax-deductible; and the
initiation of a program under which
two well-known and respected mem-
bers of the Republican party would
speak on campus each year “to ac-
quaint the students with Republi-
can party polities.”

 

Weekly Football Contest

 

Solon” Glee Resolves

Old Ladies And Hot Rods
(Continued from page 2)

Glee. You sure taught me a lesson
all right. You sure proved that the
only good judge is a bought-out
alcoholic.” Now you're going to part
with some cash.

(Ed. Note: Judge Glee, a native
of Rockbridge Baths, began his
Career with his appointment to
the Massachusetts District Court in
January, 1927, In February of the
same year he stepped up to the
Chief Justiceship of the Clifton
Forge Night Court. He was, in
March, 1927, benched in Lexington
where, for 38 years, he has served
as Lord High Magistrate of the
local Traffiic Court.)

 

EC Appoints Committee
To Study Girls in Dorm

(Continued from page 1)
regulations would have to be modi-
fied; men living in fraternity houses
and the freshmen dorms would have
girls-in-bedrooms arguments at least
as substantial; and the reputation of
the university might not be en-
hanced by such permission. EC
members Kirk Follo and Bill Jef-
fress were named to a committee
with Steinger to continue the in-
vestigation.

 

Millard Examines Dylan Album

(Continued from page 2)
gets” and “sword-swallowers”
heightens the impact immensely, but
Dylan’s ultimate concern is not nec-
essarily confined to a roomful of
Ringling Brothers personnel. As a
final touch, the musical setting is
one of his best.

The other selections range from
pretty good to indifferent. One of
them is the hit single, “Like a Rolling
Stone,” which to me epitomizes the
present problems of the “folkrock”
style. Here is a singer treating an
individual's fall from social respect-
ability to the status of a “rolling
stone;” embellishing the story with
phrases such as “Napoleon in rags” —

 

National Drama Fraternity

Seven students have been in-
vited to join the newly reactivat-
ed W&L chapter of Alpha Psi
Omega, the leading national dra-
matics honorary fraternity.

As announced by Troubadour
-director Lee Kahn, the group's
faculty advisor, the seven are sen-

iors Lew Davis, Don Lineback,

Steve Millard, John Kelly, Wicky
Stuart, and Lock Handley, and
junior Steve McElhaney.

In order to be eligible for mem-

firms on this

| and how many people have any idea

| what the hell he’s talking about?

| Most listeners are so caught up in
the big-beat sound (which admitted-
ly tends to drown out the lyric) that
any appreciation of the words is
precluded. Eventually, Dylan will
have to resolve this question if he
hopes to combine poetry and the
electric guitar.

As a whole, the album is not one
of Dylan’s best, with the out-
standing exception of the “Thin
Man.” Nevertheless, he demonstates
once again that, at his best, he stands
at the very top of the contemporary
folk music world.

Chooses Seven at W&L

bership, a student must have at-
| tained junior or senior status with
}a cumulative 1.5 G.P.R., and have
| demonstrated outstanding interest
| in the theater by accumulating at
least 50 Troub participating points.

 

 

FCA Meets
| Chuck Beale, a former VMI foot-
ball star who started the Fellow-
| ship of Christian Athletes at W&L,
| was the speaker at the FCA meeting
held here Thursday at 8 p.m.

Sponsored by the business

Po

 

at

Ohe
Oraditinnal Shop

Pres Brown’s

W&L vs. SEWANEE

 

ee Me Ute We

 

ALABAMA

 

Rabe Oil Co.

PHILLIPS 66

 

FLORIDA vs. GEORGIA

 

Records
Greeting Cards
Pipes and

Campus Corner

NAVY vs. MARYLAND

Stereo Components
Study Guides
Tobacco

 

to be

J. Ed Deaver

SHOP BRAND NAMES

Sweaters by Puritan
Shirts by Manhattan
Oppos.te R. E. Lee Hotel

N. C. STATE vs, DUKE

sure

& Sons, Inc.

 

8 amel

U.N. C. vs.

 

East Lexington Grocery

Beer—Ice—Gas

Open 7 days a week

0 p.m.

CLEMSON

 

Cricketeer
Suits

Gold Cup
Socks

London Fog
Raincoats

 

Cullege Town

Alan Paine
Sweaters

Enro & Moss
Shirt
Shop .
Bostonian
Shoes

SLIPPERY ROCK vs, LOCK HAVEN

 

Win Cash Prizes

Pick the winners in each ad on this page. The person
getting the most right wins first prize; next best, second
prize. In case of a tie the closest guess at the actual score
of the W&L game, then, Notre Dame will win. The con-
test is open to anyone except members of the Ring-tum

Phi staff.

Entries must be postmarked before Noon on Saturday
(Box 899) or brought to the Ring-tum Phi office in the
Print Shop by Noon Saturday. Only one entry per

person.

First Prize—$7.50
Second Prize—$2.50

LAST WEEK’S WINNERS

Cary Hansel $7.50

Sandy Ryan $2.50

Official Entry Blank

Advertiser

Pres Brown's

Winner

 

Suzy’s House of Gifts

 

Rabe Oil Co.

 

Campus Corner
J. Ed Deaver and Sons

East Lexington Grocery —

College Town Shop

Ram Jet of Lexington __

Leggett’s

Glen Maury Tea Room
Alvin-Dennis

Neo’s House of Beef
Thomas Ltd.

TIE BREAKERS

ee
Lock Haven

ae

Address

ee

Sewanee

Slippery Rock

Got a date, dirty car, no time?
Ram Jet Car Wash

Two bits plus 5 minutes equal 1 clean car

Located beind the new Greyhound Bus Terminal near
Lexington High School
ARMY vs. AIR FORCE

 

“McGregor”

Main

Top Quality Clothes at Prices

you can afford

Leggett’s

WEST VIRGINIA vs. V. P. 1.

“Arrow Shirts”

Street

 

261-8494

UW) ascot

Pre Mesagin Norm 5.

Minatty 5:00-3:00
U. VA, vs. SOUTH CAROLINA

  

Kod ging

 

V. M. I. vs.

Sweaters by

Cox Moore

at
Aluvin-Dennis

RICHMOND

 

FOR THE FINEST FOOD
in Lexington

Neo’s
HOUSE OF BEEF

under the same management as the College Inn

TENNESSEE vs. GEORGIA TECH

 

Gant

 

Thomas fa.

Bass Weejuns

PITT vs. NOTRE DAME

Shirts

 

 

 
