 

we = Che Bing-tum hi ss

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

 

Vel Lue LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 15, 1966 Number 37

RECORD TURNOUT OF STUDENT BODY
RESULTS IN DRESS POLL STALEMATE

+ ~ 178 Percent of Student Body Votes;

. eR 7 : i Faculty Action Freshman Class Votes 91 Percent
ff r = g On Collegian By STEVE SAUNDERS
i, Began In 1964 News Editor

Yesterday’s EC-sponsored poll on the Assimilation Com-
mittee resulted in a deadlock between those voting for abolition
Collesion Funds Remove of the committee and those favoring reinstitution of the com-
oe | mittee’s fining power. With 78 per cent of the student body

No Sudden Decision : ih an abel

voting, 434 (43.5 per cent) voted for abolition and 429 (43

Of essa per cent) voted for strengthening the committee. One hun-

‘innnhnsieiiiisiiiaiie is ————*dred thirty-five (13.5 per cent) voted

By JOHN CARRERE. JR V Di | to maintain the Assimilation Com-

y I IRE, JR. mittee as it is now, without fining
A great deal of disapproval has otes ISC ose power.

been voiced by the students on the The freshman class had the high-

late faculty recommendations to re- That Freshmen est voting percentage, with 91 per

move the Southern Collegian’s cent of the class balloting. Favoring

funds. The facts concerning the Lik R h P| abolition were 131 freshmen (47 per
background of this decision should 1 e us an cent), with 132 fres

132 freshmen (41 per

 

 

   

 

first be known before a final analy- cent) voting for strengthening,
sis is made. Forty-six freshmen (12 per cent)
The Self-Study Committee—com- By JOE WILSON voted for the status quo.
' posed of President Cole, many of Staff Reporter Eighty per cent (80) of the soph-
the deans, and other faculty mem- ; ,| Omore class turned out. One hun-
4 bers—began the specific study of the John Burk, Chairman of the IFC dred three (103) voted for aboli-

Collegian as far back as April, 1965. ernser omgelced Rush, last night oa tion (45 per cent), ninety (90) voted
President Cole himself instructed Mr. hed | . a poy = for strengthening the committee (35
The PIRATES OF PENZANCE ORCHESTRA rehearses in Waddell School under the direction of W&L Fine | Frank a een direc- koa Baglin ae : = The on, and thirty-six (36) voted

~ ae oe , a: 2 . ya or itte. Ss € ass . 7 oO 2 the 5 > as i ~ ,

Arts Professor Robert Stewart. Behind Stewart are Law Professor Robert K. Rushing (1) and Mr. Tony Deas, = ae hs ae eae seule revealed thet anprenimetely eep the committe as it is now.

 

 

- on » sleden ae Upper Classes
tions of the magazine and other cae aoe ex eee Gee oe Voting in the upper classes was
WEL Faculty And Students Participate aspects of production. “happy” in their present houses.) 2°mewhat less. Seventy (70) per
Collegian Discussed Burk indicated that this may have] °¢ of the senior class voted. Seven-

e¢ 99 Mr. Parsons said that the Col-| been the first poll on the question ty-eight (78) voted for abolition,
Penzance ens n urs a legian was discussed informally quite} and it showed the freshmen “seemed maty — (67) voted for strength-
often by the Committee over the] fairly pleased where they were.” ——— and twenty (20) voted for

following months. When the issue] Futhermore, the poll was taken in the status quo. The junior class vot-

Gilbert and Sullivan return to} art and includes a cross-section of | terested in maintaining it came up in late October, he said that| the Commons under no upperclass d per cent of its members, with

Lexington this weekend with a| Rockbridge County citizen and stu- Admission is $1.50 for adults and

sixty~three (63) voting for abolition
. it was his impression that it was] influence. :
three-day run of “The Pirates of| dents. The four W&L students in the| 75 cents for children, Tickets may a common cotupiaees of the commit. ood Geant tits ie ee
Penzance.” The light-hearted, and| orchestra are Okey Houston, David| be purchased from members of the too that the ‘Collegian should no Ruch Boshint Futted ae erentynone (31) Sor maintaining
musical operetta will be presented} Mongan, Harvey Savitsky, and Mike} Kiwanis Club, from participants in longer enjoy university sponsorship Another revealing result of the the committee as presently consti-
r . > Stew raise the - > f, € € , ‘ >SS 7 a : ' ' : ~~
by the Lexington Kiwanis Club and} Denton. Mr. Stewart praised the or-| the show, and at numerous business The only question was how this| poll was that for both pledges and uted

‘ ‘ ' maar’ . » . , There w u at
5 i oF “Nes s , S S sar’s | establis > we Lexington ; her as an ‘ i :
the Friends and Relations of Gilbert | chestra as be ing good as last year s| esta oli hen ae he 4 g h A be o li .d. a ae aieieiiis then tn j i n th :
and . sulliv an { F R¢ ” 75) P er formance and sald 1 some member > were in- | Buen: i V ist area.

mally conservative v :
: nes ain ee es | also noted that it was his under-| booklets were important as to which Sie aaa on ton S the
time is 8 p.m. this Thursday, Friday standing that “the members felt] house to see, but not to join. Most . ' aw students

. 7 se (62 , re , i pa
and Saturday at the Waddell School that no possible student reasoning| comments on how to improve Rush ater t -— md four (54)
Auditorium. é Ter é newt C é Ui é could sway the faculty's opinion on] were from non-fraternity men who ~ See, Eeyore (ci)
) : a for strengthening, and twelve (12)
WAL Participates the magazine, and that no student] usually recommend new approaches for the present arrangement
Tl how concerns, in brief, a F Li. meeting was necessary.” However,| to Rush Week Mi . o. ——
u snow col ns, . 9 ; inde ‘ommen
: — d these were not official stands . = . ts
band of pirates who - = a On University an Ad ities Concerning the Openings edition,| _ Other questions included: Should] The Executive Committee will
the wards of Major-General Stan- ;| Rush Week be less regulated? Were

' s Washingt d . ae ‘ : Dean Atwood stressed that no official make a final decision about the fu-
oe eS ee on By FRANK L, FAIRCHILD, JR. | and the Library have been helpful word was given to stop its printing.| ““* house images gotten during} ture of the Assimilation Committee
Lee student body and faculty eo An open discussion of the Self-|'™ providing analysts with view Although M: Bessene ond Dean Ate Rush? And Should Rush Be Defer-] at the meeting tonight. Student body
ticipate in all phases of the produc- Study Report on Campus and Fa- | points and commentaries that other- weed Gd express their personal de- red to Thanksgiving? The results on} president Fred Mindel. commenting
DeV ss Gon a - é cilities is scheduled for Wednesday,| Wise might not have been brought] .... 4, see it not printed,” the only these questions were a close division.] on the poll results, expressed his
YeVout of the ommerce Schoc ‘

an March 16. Mr. James Pollard, analyst|‘® the attention of the Self-Study} 4.6, that the Collegian had to] The Committee on Rush was com- | 5@tslaction with the large turn-
plays the lead role of Major-Gen-

 

 

. , for this phase of the Self-Study Committee ublish in Staunton was the normal] posed of members from eight fra-]} Ut He said, noting the absence of
eral Stanley, while W&L senior ! = | . mer I er Gems o : “The al
John N i portrays the Sergeant Program, has announced that the Attendance rush in the year’s beginning.” Such|ternities and was designed as al n consensus re essentia

1 Neergard pc ays 5 i : : . ; e - —

_ ; discussion period will be divided Faculty attendance at the past] booklets as the Student Register and| Rush Self-Study. Its purposes ranged thing is that we must retain “sense
of the Police ! I e pur} . @ ”

’ into two sessions meetings has ben moderate, while} the Alumni Magazine were needed| from finding out if freshmen were]! Community” which has so long

> ia I ;s on slage 7 a . =

Beside , Ge mayer . as Lemans Students—2:30 p.m, Newcomb 8, | student response has continually | immediately happy after Rush to how to cut characterized Washington and Lee,

cL. areos involveme a ag aa
other Wah, some © blic Faculty—7:30 p.m. Newcomb 8. | © idenced an incre eased interest. (Continues on page 4) Rush Week expenses whether or not the Executive Com-
range from production to publicity aCUy—ti0v PM. | . een . es mittee s interpretation of the poll is
Mr. Robert Rushing of the Law Examining the Academic, Athletic,

to our liking. Whether or not one
School leads the Production Staff ,

and Dormitory facilities of the Uni- [ p emerges on the winning side of any
and reports that the production | 'S! versity, the report also explores the 1S orica a ers oun n ic given issue is not as important, in
well prepared for the premiere. The] , 064 for th proposed Student Cen-

my opinion, as how he emerges as
male chorus includes students Fred

 

 

 

 

. ter. Among the long-range plans Two curious Kappa Alpha soph- Journal of Professor Other material in the trunk includ-] an individual. | hope that everyone,
Taussig, Peter Strohm, John Lewis,| . ocosted in the report are the re-| omores have found what Dr. William! THe most interesting manuscript | ed personal correspondence between regardless of which ‘side’ they advo-
and James Opps rine "ot Dean | modeling of the Old Freshman Dorm,| G. Bean, retired professor of history | jy eh collection was a journal of | members of the White family, busi-] cated emerges unseathed as an in-
Lewi | John is in charg ou Pied 4 completion of a new gymnasium, and] and authority on the Liberty Hall| pr James J. White professor of | hess letters, and even an “In Mem-| dividual, This will require a great
FROGS co-ordinating und Mi wid construction of adequate quarters for| volunteers, termed a “very importe| classical languages at Washington|oriam” letter from the Board of deal of mutual respect and respon-
Dickens of the German Depariment) +) oatrical « xperimentation and pres-! ant document.” College during the Civil War and| Trustees to White's widow after his] sibility; it will require, above all, a
heads Publicity for the play entation Rod Boren and Judson Simmons | fire: captain of the Liberty Hall vol-| death commitment to the Wad. community

7 ’ ‘ nder the » . : eal locke ' } . i nu

The play's orchestra is under th Mr. Pollard discovered several locked runks 1) unteers at the Battle of First Manas-| KA President Geoff Butler stated and its essential unity
direction of Professo: Robert Stew- A ummary of the cope - uh, the attic of the a house and — sa | th the house would probably give

_ ent of the Cii-Study in Mil Ol«l in them. Une of thm contained a -- ‘ as , ‘ i E ‘ ~ y +; ’

d lerd’s section and 0 lcting of iesu huff ‘beg twoothirds full of ons The journal, written some time af-| most of the material _— by — W@L Debate Team Scores
. / . . , . ter the close of the War, describes|and Simmon to the teid- rite .
)peration Match Leaders, it meaneilaee « As : = Se ‘ Vhit amil: ' . : . :
c pe . d( : id ——— } have been a respondence of th< : nite famil the activities of the volunteers up| Papers collected in the library V ic tory At Liberty Bell
. . riputed to ii member ol ine | tormer occupants of the house > | = . * °
hese an ,annon, : , ' through Manassas when Dr. White! ’ °
Mac Scie ond to stadt teedees thn sol fone ts Wen oe. | Invitational Tournament
_ | retires c } ni ar | “an saic
To Be On Roanoke Show | dividual students interested in ex- a aaa im oe Se
amining thi ummary prior to the a — — —— —_ ot Washington and Lee's debate team
Two modern-day natchmak« , ! oe eae seal =" nv materiai n 7” journal trom won three ilver cups at the Lib-
‘ on ma tain coy in | . a . s whil a ts il ‘ j "
Washington and La Univ ity Parson offic on the third fleor of , . pUurce while res arching his erty Bell Invitational Debate Tour-
tudent Dave Marchese ind Billy W ‘ H hook The Liberty Hall V olunteers nament at the University of Penn-
iV ' ington }
; | He added, however that it contained lus ‘ ;

_ ill ann on Roanoke tel ’ ' ‘ iyvania th weekend, WA&L's win-
Cannon will ppear on Roano ec lhe irpose of oO} tiscu on a aided ek fe ant x COoRKROeTHC &l Vinh
evision station WDBJ on March 2% . ou elf A nollie on ' : , would fay ving eam placed second with a
to explain how the do it ‘ i. = the ‘ ly a * lded to the book if he had seen thie record of eight win ind three lowss

Marches ind © nd ays ) no j ice journal competition with 42 team epre-

Virginia franchine for (ire tion | . bee . ectio The ere wccoun } © death entng scneoisa trom 14 tate
Match trie computerized Cu id Pre } ) w College rv m mt yuUlLesE it Mana and lom Baremore of Shr« eport La
which pa coup ccording to in Secnoo0: of Lommercé ind Ad , quot 0) Confederat Gen ind Jame Han } of Oklahoma Cit
formation fed ito cor iter. The . ; Stud Life Adin ot Jackso vite he ordered th rare UK iahoma nde up the WAL team
will Appe on Kat Thornton that routed the Yankees Bh | Hamill lave won 21

Panorama now it | ) ; > o nN vi he

rh le ; = ‘ Notice Feeling for War ‘ lebated tasethe The ot
fo ‘ i; ) tio i Much of White feelu fo tive Libert Tk Pr to King College
of late. Jeff 1 ve H it D Pu » evident he jou of Wilkesboro, Pennsylvania, by a

‘ ind iu » oO i He d Mu ‘ fi iS d ym. Han utacored Bare

M H. ¢ ’ ed held
i
bi Mond ‘ ‘ ' ) I De e Co \W

' ‘ A i oid ‘ } ‘ } ' aware

( lo y ) Hi m pa 17 trophis id |
M D I Ho & os 0 infinished

 

I it i enio Rodney Boren i the Revolution : Judson Simmons | 1965-66

eason
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association
Tuesday Edition

A Full And Open Debate

The recent controversy surrounding the Southern Col-
legian is eliciting comment from faculty and students but in
most cases the information available is either incorrect or in-
conclusive. We wish to make some clarification of the issue,
and offer our recommendations.

 

It appears now that Mr. Lauck did not print the Openings
edition of the Collegian simply because the quantity of work
under contract at that time did not permit the necessary time
to publish the magazine. However, Mr. Lauck indicated that
shortly after he had refused the Collegian a member of the
administration stated he was pleased that the print shop had
taken this action and he hoped that the same would be true for
the Fancy Dress edition.

These remarks were not made in any official capacity, but
it is difficult to imagine an absolute lack of pressure on any
future decision which Mr. Lauck might make. In fact Mr.
Lauck stated that he would not have printed the Fancy Dress
edition. Quite obviously, some degree of “unofficial’”’ influ-
ence was applied in a rather clandestine manner.

Although the summary of the student life section of
the Self-Study contained several references to the Collegian
and even a tentative consideration of withholding University
funds from the magazine, the discussion at the open meeting
did not center on the Collegian’s future. The present editor
of the Collegian could not be present, and he did not provide
a spokesman for his position. Consequently, the issue was drop-
ped after a few remarks concerning the possibility of giving
Collegian funds to Ariel.

The Administration contends that this meeting gave stu-
dents ample opportunity to present any defense of the Col-
legian or suggest plausible alternatives. We feel that the vast
majority of students were not aware of the significance of this
meeting nor were they aware of decision of the Self-Study
Committee to recommend to the faculty the suspension of
funds for the Collegian. In the light of this we would urge that
the president delay his final decision on this matter until the
Self-Study Committee has heard from representatives of the
magazine and the Publications Board.

We are not defending or attacking the merits of the Colleg-
ian. We do feel, however, that there are valid points on both
sides, and we earnestly desire a full and open debate on this
question. Hopefully students will take advantage of this oppor-
tunity to examine the Southern Collegian carefully, and articu-
late their views at the proper time.

 

 

Concern And Recalcitrance

Yesterday's record turnout in the Assimilation Committee
poll is perhaps the most encouraging sign on the Washington
and Lee campus in a number of years. The fact that 78 per
cent of the student body participated in the vote indicates the
capacity of W&L men to become genuinely concerned over an
issue. There was certainly nothing apathetical about the stu-
dent body in this instance. However, this concern must con-
tinue,

Interpretation of the poll will be a sticky business, and no
matter how the Executive Committee interprets it, some stu-
dents will be dissatisfied. Recalcitrance on the part of die-hard
dissenters, after the Executive Committee makes a final dis-
position of the matter, can lead only to a pointless sort of
guerilla warfare.

Whatever the Executive Committee decides, it is our obliga-
tion as part of the University to provide their proposal with at
least a non-hostile climate in which to succeed or fail. This
whole discussion of conventional dress and the Assimilation
Committee has come too far and has taken too much effort
to make deliberate thwarting of the Executive Committee's
solution anything more than a childish exhibition of acute
short-sightedness.

We believe that the student body will display the same
commendable concern about the problem after the E.C.’s deci-
sion as they did before it, and cooperate with the E.C. to the
fullest extent.

The Ring-tum Phi
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college
year. It is printed by the Journaliam Laboratory Press, Washington and
Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1878.

MICHAEL M. HASH JAMES E. REDENBAUGH
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager

EDITORIAL BOARD

Charles H. Newman
Frank Fairchile
Steve Saunders

Joe Wilson

Al Cedarholm

Don O'Hare

Randall Weill

Bill Wilkerson

Bob Gastrock, Craig Smith
Mott Wright

Tom Carpenter

Alan Cooper

Ne w Lawrence

Managing Editor
Executive Editor
News Editor
Assistant News Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Aasistant Editor
Copy Editor
Cartoon Editors
Editorial Assistant
Sports Editor

Senior Staff Reporte:
Cartoonist

BUSINESS STAFF

Co-Business Manager
Circulation Manager

 

By DR. JAMES G. LEYBURN

Once again, in March 1966 as as
in April 1880, the pirate sherry will
be poured and the pirate bumper
passed. All knowledgeable Lexing-
tonians will be transported for two
beatific hours to “a rocky sea-shore
on the coast of Cornwall,” near
Penzance.

Swiftly Flowing

Wits and music-lovers of eight de-
cades—peers and plebeians, premiers
and poets, prelates, and puritans,
princes and plenipotentiaries (not to
mention pirates and _ policemen)—
have relished the gay satire of this
third Gilbert and Sullivan opera, The
Pirates of Penzance. It is a favorite
of school-boys no less than of Oxford
dons. Much of its humor, no matter
how swiftly it flows, is obvious to
the veriest groundling; but as al-
ways, the knowing are sure that
only their select few have caught the

subtleties and the allusions of both
words and music.

We shall be in goodly company
when the curtain opens. There are
the notorious pirates, who can scut-
tle a Cunarder or vary their piracy
with a little burglary; the doughty
policemen—whose lot, alas, is not
a happy one; and Major-General
Stanley’s irresistible daughters who,
when the pirates first see them, dis-
cover “a first-rate opportunity to
get married with impunity, and in-
dulge in the felicity of unbounded
domesticity” (married of course, by
a doctor of divinity who resides in
this vicinity).

Major-General Stanley

Major General Stanley himself
candidly admits that it is a glorious
thing to be a Major-General, and he
proves his superiority by reciting
the varied information (animal, veg-
etable, and mineral) he has at his

 

 

    
   
    
    
  
 
  

  
  
   
  

 

VOLUNTARY 5
CONTRI pu Tle

    

SOUTHERN
COLLEGIA

  
  

 

-
“~~ 7 —

Sf =< 1
/ | SPEAKING I Comennonar. \
THAD NONL fee '
j
i |
iw, 1
: 1
‘ pen
die i nen

“

rs
_ h
GASTROCK

 

Columnists Attack Faculty’s
Outdated Teaching M ethods

By ED WOOD

and KEN CARO

Why isn’t there intellectual ex-
citement and involvement at Wash-
ington and Lee? The answer seems
to include a number of causes most
of which can be easily ascertained
by any thoughtful student. However,
we believe one cause is generally
ignored in mass analysis of this
question. This cause is the existence
of certain teaching methods through-
out our faculty that reflect laziness,
pedantry or downright incompe-
tence.

memory within 45 seconds after
emerging from the test.
Ad Nauseam

Other exams require the memori-
zation of extensive lists. A good
grade in such courses depends upon
a student's ability to pound A parts,
B parts, C parts, D, E, F,—“ad nau-
seam,” into the protesting faculties
of his mind. To the purveyors of
such tripe we students ask whether
our education is really furthered by
a momentary familiarity with un-
assimable oceans of small facts? We
ask also whether knowledge, wis-

Education is often retarded at} dom or even good sense can be
Washington and Lee by “inverted al-| broken down into A, B, C, and D
chemists,’ ‘turning gold into lead. parts?

All this is not to say that any
more than a small minority of teach-
ers or teaching methods are bad.

(Continued on page 4)

Lack of Variety
Take for example the courses
which never change. Year after year
the same exact lectures are presented
the deadly dull manner
Year after year the same exact tests
given requiring the out-

in same

are same

 

FROGS Present Gilbert & Sullivan Operetta
Leyburn Previews “Penzance”

finger-tips—though he has ruefully
to admit his military knowledge has
only been brought down to the be-
ginning of the century.

Every character is beguiling:
Mabel, who is a coloratura aria,
feels the moral beauty of falling in
love with Frederic, the ex-pirate
apprentice; her sisters Edith, Kate,
and Isabel, who wonder whether,
“had he not been a thing of beauty,
would she be swayed by quite as
keen a sense of duty?”; Ruth, the
piratical maid-of-all-work, who
quaintly mistook the word “pilot”
for “pirate,” and whose love has
been accumulating “forty-seven
year”; The Pirate King, who has a
pretty taste for paradox, and Sam-
uel, his lieutenant, who with equal
aplomb dispenses sherry and crow-
bars, dark lanterns and skeletonic
keys.

Sullivan Outdoes Gilbert

The wit of Gilbert is matched by
the genius of Sullivan, who is at
his Mozartean best. He combines in
counterpoint the chattering chorus,
in 2/4 time, with the 3/4 rhapsody
of Mabel and Frederick, and later
indulges in the even more complex
counterpoint of the scene in which
the daughters try to inspire the
dwindling courage of the policemen
(tarantara!). Other high spots are
the Major-General’s famous patter
song, Mabel’s waltz aria «and her
farewell duel with it dying fall, and
the policemen’s intoned replies and
their reflections upon the woes of
constabulary duty. It can be—has
been—claimed that in this opera
Sullivan outdoes Gilbert in sparkle,
sophistication, and subtley.

As always among those who love
Gilbert and Sullivan, whether

(Continued on Page 4)

 

LETTERS

Ep: toR

NSA Editorial ‘‘A musing”

Editor, Tuesday Ring-tum Phi

The editorial obituary on the NSA
last Tuesday attempted to land a
strong parting blow upon us “active
patriots.” By being egregiously un-
informed the writer made an amus-
ing though intelligently unappeal-
ing effort.

Throwing out the McCarthy ma-
larky, which itself gave a very much
overcooked “red herring” flavor to
the entire editorial, there are two
points worth mentioning.

1) Who was “consciously misrepre-
senting” NSA membership costs? As
stated in the editorial: “The actual
BASIC (my emphasis) fee would
have been $15.” I think that most of
us, however, were led by the NSA
proponents to believe that W&L
would have been an active member
of NSA and even be represented at
the annual summer convention, In
this way those marvelous minority
reports could be filed and thereby
disassociate our school from the
outlandish political positions taken
by NSA. The average cost, one will
find as we did, for schools our size
to participate in the function of the
NSA amounted to about $600 an-
nually.

2) Having gaved our school some
money by apparently not sending
delegates to the convention, our R-t
P man out of the scene lumbers, in
his characteristically maladroit fash-
ion, through the political criticism
of NSA. Because the NSA has fought
“Communist-dominated student or-
ganizations” and is definitely not a
“junior adjunct of the international
Communist conspiracy” therefore...

Therefore what? Does this mean

 

 

Newquist Views Talent

(Continued on page 4)

In State’s “Made in Paris”

By JAY NEWQUIST

This week’s celluloid offering at
the State, Made in Paris, engenders
the bad with the bad and miscar-
riages, surprisingly enough, the bad.
It may be the best
flick of the year
except the term
doesn’t really ap- |
ply. Where else
can someone Ex-
perience (for less
than 90c) the
cream of pre-ado-
lescent intelli-
gence? The silent,
lurking awareness |

of the 2nd grade Newquist
mind is really
staggering.

But writhing about in this more
recent example of yes—the new
awareness is Ann-Margaret, emerg-
ing from her latest critical acclaim
in the Pleasure Seekers and Kitten
with a Whip. Ann is out to prove
that one of her flicks can be as
bad as the last. It takes only a
moderate sprinkling of bad taste
to bring it all about. And has she
talent? This year, our latest mother
figure to thousands of nirvana-hun-
gry pre-schoolers received the Lee
Strasberg Award in Method Acting.
It took Ann-Margaret three hours of
intense mental preparation (after all,
gang, there is motivation involved)
to light a cigarette. She never smok-

Bernard Durand Reflects on W@L Syndrome

 

dated facts and tired concepts. One
does not study a course, one studies
“cold quizes.”

Are we students
over the period of a decade ot
and important intellectual
occurred in the
areas covered by these courses? Are
we to presume that the truth never
changes and that its ultimat
ment has been miraculously achieved
in the archaic notebooks of our pro-

that

sO

to presume Every valuable man is a system of

“successfully” assembled contrasts,
Paul Valery

BERNARD J. DURAND

Howard is my “friend.” Back home
he would just “un comarade,”
but, as I realized after crossing the

no new

developments have

refine- be

ocean, many words do not have the

fessors? same power, or even the same mean-
Communication Poor ing, on this side of the water. Any-

How about the straight lecture| way, I know Howard better than
courses’ Some professors at Wash-| any other student. I know his name
ington and Lee drone on for hour which, for me, is already an achieve-

where he comes

Indiana, and I know

with the most depressing unalleviat- | ment in itself; I know

ed lectures. Questions are given cur- | from: Columbu

ignored com- | that

sory encouragement or he has spent two years in WAL
ple tely Intra-clas dialowuc are |] hope that he will not mind if I
neither encouraged nor allowed to| use him to describe what, after «ix
continue for any length of time. S5tu- | months, I find to be the portrait of
dents are required to digest the/ the “average Washington and Lee
the most unpalatable inanities with- | “gentleman.”
out the slightest murmur Howard came to WAL because that
Worse yet, we students are not| was a good thing to do. First, be-
only required to passively assimi- | cause college life was more appealing

 

 

 

Kenneth Bernhardt |
Bob Priddy

late the protracted gurglings of some| than army life, especially because
of our mentor st exam time we are Howa! iw not really attracted by
expected to gurgle back. Some teat~ | farwa countire Also, he was
na technique quire us to be abl |} aware that a college degree might
o identify veritable mountains of | very well help him later if he wanted
il facte—09 44/100 per cent of | to get a good job in business admins-

; ecede io the meat inaces | ty it 1o nan isurance company

e regions of une student's! At la 1 wanted to get some “ecul-

 

ture”; that also might be very use-
ful in a cocktail party or for a
“elub-quiz.”

One day in September, Howard
got out of a high-school-bus at Na-
tural Bridge and conscientiously
participated in the “basic-training
camp” that lasted three days. When
he took the bus to go back to Lex-
ington, he already well ace
quainted with much of the university
life. He had made some friends. met
several teachers, listened to a few
about the honor system,
the extracurricular activities, the re-
ligious life on the campus and the
fraternities

was

speeches

Then the rush-week began; How-

ard visited a few houses, drank
much beer decided to join the
Omega-Lambda-Delta There he

found a few students that he liked,
that he didn’t like
not expect more! Of course, for a lew
months, he had to shine his big-
brother's shoes, to get his big-broth-

1 iow one can-

ind laundry, to answer the
but in his that
nothing of an ethical problem

Among a few Howard had
to wear coat o he did, |
}

he never worried about not

s date

phone, opinion was

rule
ind-t € put

wearing

 

 

 

| gooled hecau

ed it, but it’s the meaning involv-
ed;

Special recognition was also given
her for stumbling over one of the
more taxing phrases in the English
language, “My name is Ann, uh, uh,
Margret.” Her vocal range is as-
tounding. By purring, she can make
the most commonplace object seem
wildly exotic—like a pale green
dishrag. By shifting her voice (like
a mixmaster in 2nd gear), she can
belt out the bump and the grind
with all the sincerity of a chocolate-
covered cobra.

But as they say in biological cir-
cles, it takes two to tango so to
speak, and in Made in Paris, it’s
a regular brother and sisterhood of
hackneyed boredom producing, as I
said before, the bad.

Edie Adams, tired girl, must by
now have contracted lung cancer
from pushing Muriel cigars. Worse
yet, someone may have taken her
advice and picked her up and
smoked her. Louis Jordan must have
been gassed when he signed up, or
else he needed “handkerchief mon-
ey.” Chad Everett, who comes to
the flick after taking 3rd left from
nowhere, provides the not-so-whole-
some, not-too-wicked (hah!) love
interest for Our Girl Ann. He has
his sheep dogs and station wagon,
so Ann had to fit in somewhere. Es-
sence of wholesome America!

(Continued on Page 4)

Howard Introduces Frenchman To W&L ‘Climate’

socks, about wearing his shirt out
of his pants and being as lousy as
possible when he was off the cam-
pus Washington and Lee's code
was not specific about that

Howard decided to take some easy
courses; he had no idea yet of
what he was going to choose as a
major. Maybe French (why not’),
maybe history, maybe mathematics,
maybe something else, fine-arts or
sociology. He tried as much as he
could to memorize what he was sup-
posed to memorize; he was not par-
ticularly smart but he wasn't ex-
pected to be so. He memorized and
was rather happy about that he
didn't have to think but just te
memorize

On the week-ends he dated a few
girls from Mary Baldwin or Hollin
(he didn’t care for Sweet Briar girls)
He had a

a pretty good time

good time es!

booze, girle an

excitement; one cannot expect mor«

The first time I met Howard h
eemed interested to know what
was thinking of his country, Johr
son, Viet-Nam (a faraway country
American girls ete Il wanted to |
frank I have the feeling that

he eéall
tupid Frenchman

ul

he

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Lacrosse Team Starts Season
Monday Against Swarthmore

Washington and Lee’s 28 man la-
crosse squad will face a very chal-
lenging year. With a nucleus of
eleven lettermen, seven of which
were starters, opposition such as
Yale, Washington College, and Vir-
ginia will be encountered.

The team opens the year against

Swathmore next Monday and Yale
next Wednesday. Over Spring vaca-
tion the team travels North to meet
Hofstra, Penn State, Lehigh, and
Villanova. This demanding sche-
dule will make the road a rocky
one, but by no means impossible.
Spearheading the team will be a

 

66-67 Wrestling Captains Named

Don Patterson

By RAY ZELTNER

Don Patterson and Warren Stew-
art will lead the 1966-67 wrestlers
as Co-captains, it was announced
last Friday night at a banquet in
the back room of the College Inn.
Both are Juniors and both have
lettered twice.

The wrestlers had voted for the
captains after the last match with
the University of Virginia, three
weeks ago. Trophys for the best
freshman wrestler and the wrestler
who did the most for the team will
be awarded later at the spring sports
banquet.

Letter Sweaters

Letter sweaters were also award-
ed at the banquet. First-letter men
in wrestling were: Sophomore Rolly
Jacobs, 123 lb.; Senior Jim Bruton,
130 lb.; Freshman Charlie Slaughter,
152 lb.; Freshman Bobby Munson.;

 

il

    

Warren Stewart

167 lb.; Freshman Clarke Carter,
167 lb.; Freshman Jay Clarke, 177
lb.; Sophomore Homes Raker, heavy-
weight, and Sophomore Bob Cashill,
manager.

Sophomore Bobby Payne, 145 lb.;
and Junior Don Patterson, 145 lb.;
Senior Co-captain Kemble White,
137 lb.; Senior Co-captain Jamie
Andrews, 160 lb.; and Junior War-
ren Stewart, heavyweight, received
certificates in recognition of their
earning additional letters.

Season Reviewed

The team finished the season with
a 4-5 season. Defeats were suffered
at the hands of the University of
Virginia, Duke University, Old Do-
minion, and North Carolina State.
Victories were won at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, University
of West Virginia, Loyola, and Wil-
liam and Mary.

 

 

 

veteran first midfield and a hard-
hitting close defense. The first mid-
field will be composed of seniors Jay
Bowersox, Billy Andrews, and Bruce
Jackson. This midfield will be count-
ed on heavily for scoring punch as
well as rugged defense.

The defense, headed by all-Amer-
ican Lance Bendann, Warren Stew-
art, and Ben Gambill, should be
the strong point of the team. Ben-
dann, Andrews, and Bowersox are
the team captains.

Backing up the first midfield will
be an inexperienced second unit. This
unit will include either Pete Took-

i ler, Hugh Baugher, Kip Armstrong,
or Clint Murchison. A

third unit
of either Terry Griffin, Ed Crawford,
Ralph Schenkel, or Clark Carter will
also be slated to see plenty of ac-

tion,

Adding to the depth of the defense
are freshman standout Charley
Stewart and sophomores Holmes
Raker, Harold Stowe, and Mike
Miles.

Depleted by the graduation of
high-scoring Caroll Klinglehoffer,
the attack will be a bit shy of ex-
perience this year. Returning crease-
man Tom Pittman and Chip Chew
who saw action at both midfield and
attack last year will be counted to
pick up most of the slack.

The third attack spot will from
freshmen candidates Roger Israel,
Joe Wich, Jim Chance, and Wade
Sample.

Sophomore Dave Johnson shows
all the promise of developing into
an outstanding netminder. Jim Daw-
son will back him up.

While not yet ready to tackle
Navy and Maryland, the team is
hopeful and awaiting the upcoming
season with anticipation.

NOTICE

The deadline for submitting fees
for participation in the Mock Con-
vention-sponsored Political Action
Course has been extended to Friday,
March 18. Open to all students, the
nine-session course costs $3.50 per
participant, and will be taught by a
Commerce Schooly faculty member.
Fees and covering notes should be
sent or delivered to Steve Saunders,
Chairman, SPE House, Lexington,
Virginia, before March 18.

 

 

 

j

 

eer rrr

 

} SPRING VACATION IN !

Nassau

FREE

FIRST PRIZE

Round Trip Plane Ticket From Roanoke

With the purchase of each $10 worth of merchandise you will re-
ceive a chance—starting SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5. Drawing
to be held MARCH 24, 5 p.m. at THOMAS, LTD.

SECOND PRIZE—A sport coat of your choice from THOMAS,

LTD. THIRD PRIZE—Kacoste knit shirt and a pair of Bermudas.

FOURTH PRIZE—One night in scenic Roanoke at the exotic

Hotel Ponce de Leon. FIFTH PRIZE—AIll expense trip to Goshen
Pass plus a case of Schlitz beer.

 

 

 

 

Dom Flora ranks as one of W&L’s athletic greats.

Dom Flora: Legendary Hero
Of Doremus Gym Basketball

This past season saw the emer-
gence of a new look for Washing-
ton and Lee basketball teams of
of the future. Leading this rise was
a freshman, Rob Bauer from At-
lanta, Ga., who brought faint re-
semblance to those who remember
the greatest basketball player in
Washington and Lee history. Dom
Flora.

Dom Flora came to Washington
and Lee in the fall of 1954 after
playing three sports for Dickinson
High in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Dom had decided to come to W&L
because he wanted to play football
here. But the summer before he
was to enroll, W&L dropped the
1954 schedule and subsidized football
was gone for good. He came to Lex-
ington anyway, and played baseball
and basketball for Coach Bill Mc-
Cann. While he was a fine baseball
player with professional aspirations,
Dom was to write his name in the
record books as a basketball player.

 

A Starter Always

A starter from the moment he
stepped on the court in Doremus
Gym, Dom began his assult on the
records as a freshman. In 29 games
that year he scored 553 points, a
mere two points from the record for
the most points scored by a fresh-
man for a season at a major col-
lege.

In 1955-56 Dom’s sophomore year,
the General’s attack was crippled
as Dom’s scoring partner, Lee Mar-
shall, was injured during much of
the season. But Dom refused to quit
as the team’s record slumped to
a 12-16 mark. That year saw Dom
score 607 points for a 21.7 average,
and his two year total of 1,160 was
only 15 shy of the NCAA record
for total points scored as a fresh-
man-sophomore.

Strong Rebounder

With Marshall back in 1956, Dom's

burden was eased, and he was able

(Continued on page 4)

 

Baseball Squad

Enters Season

By GIL TURNER

The Generals enter their third
week of pre-season practice this
week after a very impressive show-
ing in their first nine inning inter-
squad game this past Saturday.
Coach Joe Lyles was quite pleased
and optimistic after the “W” or first
unit defeated the “L” or second
team by a 12-6 margin. Almost all
of the team saw some action in the
game, with the team coming now to
the reckoning point of weeding out
the top players to make up the start-
ing squad for the season opener
after the spring vacation break.

Looking first to the pitching staff,
the starting hurlers in the intersquad
game. Pete Heumann and Jim Coop-
er were both very impressive, each
going four strong innings. Other pit-
chers were John Johnson, Rick Car-
son, Lee Halford, and Bill Rasmus-
sen. Although it is still early, the
mound staff is shaping up well with
Heumann, Cooper, Rasmussen, and
freshman Phil Runyon the prime
contenders for opening chores.

Infielders in Action

In the field, the “W” squad fielded
Ed Bishop at third, Franklin Thom-
as at short, Eric Sisler at second,
and Luke Crosland at first. Senior
Dick Kirkpatrick was not present
but is a contender for the shortstop
position. On the “L” squad were
Roddy Roediger at third, Gil Turner
at short, E. H. Ball at second, and
Jack Anthony at first. Other players
to see action were Gill Fitzhugh at
second, John Nazzaro at first, and
Ron Shortt at third.

As far as the outfield goes, the
tops so far are Thom Mitchell,
Charlie Freret, and Ed Mitchell. On
the second line are Bill Schaefer,
Gary Apgar, and Steve Jones.

Future Is Bright
An overlook at the game on Sat-
urday shows that the hitters are
finally coming around since the be-
ginning of the season. Each team col-
lected seven hits with many mis-
takes accounting for a few of the
runs. However, the time between the
(Continued on Page 4)

 

After the service or graduate school,
then what?

Look up, seniors, look up

and hitch vour wavon

to these stars!

 

Our marketing management recruiter will

be on your campus on

MARCH 18

If you're interested in a sky-is-the-limit
opportunity with our advertising depart-

ment, sign up to see him now!

PROCTER & GAMBLE
An Equal Opportunity Employer

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Faculty Discusses Collegian

(Continued from page 1)

Withdrawal of Funds

On December 8, Dean John dis-
tributed a limited progress report
on the Self-Study Committee. This
was distributed to the Ring-tum
Phi and all fraternities. Included
in this report is the Collegian ques-

tion, “Should Washington and Lee
remove its sponsorship of _ this
publication?” Direct reference is

made to the possibility of accom-
plishing this by “withholding of
funds.”

Meetings on December 14 and 15
were allowed students to discuss
the contents. While no students ap-
peared at the first meeting, only
four attended the second. Dean John,
who presided, said that direct refer-
ence was made to the black fate of
the Collegian by a student. When
this was agreed to, no further dis-
cussion was pursued. Dean John
said, “I expected a longer debate
on the magazine’s pros and cons, but
the students didn’t push the subject.”

The Collegian was again scheduled
in the Self-Study Committee in
February. On February 9, the meet-
ing came to the decision that uni-
versity patronage should be removed
from the Collegian. Acting on this
decision, Dean Atwood told Mr.
Lauck not to print the Springs edi-
tion.

Lack of Response

According to Dr. J. D. Cook, mem-
ber of the Publications Board, his
board was simply too late. “The
purpose of our March 8 meeting was
to discuss the Collegian, but this was
not known outside of the Publica-
tions Board. Neither did we ever
make a public proposition to spon-
discussion at

sor a student-faculty
that time.’ Dr. Cook placed the
blame on the Publications Board,

the students, and the Ring-tum Phi.
He said that students didn’t take ad-
vantage of their opportunity in De-
cember, and that the Ring-tum Phi
should have given the issues more
publicity. The Collegian editors of
the last few years were made aware
of the faculty’s desires, yet they had
never taken any action to defend
their magazines. Dr. Cook also de-
nied the validity of the late Collegian
poll because of its biased questions.

The clause in the student consti-
tution which mentions the Southern
Collegian s states: “The following or-

Com Of Dom

(Continued from page 3)

 

to concentrate on his defense and
rebounding. A fine defensive player,
Dom also proved strong under the
boards as he averaged over 120 re-
bounds a season for four years. It
was this year Dom's junior year, that
W&L went on to post its best record
20-7: and a second place in
Southern Conference Tourna-

evel
the
ment

Then in the
found himself coach
and mostly new teammates. Although
the Generals record fell to 9-16, Dom
was to enjoy the greatest season of
his brilliant career. In 25 games he
scored 634 points for a 254 average
But disappointment was to mat
Dom's final year as he was unable
to carry his team into the Southern
Conference tournament, an event he
had been in for three years. Closing
his career with 18 points against
Villanova, Dom moved into 5th place
among the all-time scorers in college
basketball with 2310 points in four
years and 109 games

Since then four others have
passed Dom in career point
but their names to show the
Dom Flora is in. These four
Robertson, Bill Bradley
Elgin Baylor, and Bill McGill. Of
the the first three are rated
perhaps the three greatest all-round

1957-58 season Dom

with a new

sure-
totals
serve
c lass

ire Oscar

four

basketball players ever. And Dom
is also the second most prolific scorer
n Southern Conference history. Only

Frank Selvy of Furman, who holds
the NCCA record for the most points

in a game (100) has scored more
Dom's senior year had many fine
games, but the one most remem-
hered wa against Richmond when
he scored 32 points to raise his ca-
eer total to 2263 thus decoming
the highest scorer in Virginia history
This surpassed Virginia Buzzy

Wilkerson’s mark of 2,233

Showered With Honors
Many
Dom

vstowed upon

W&L

honors were |

during his four years at

CENTRAL LUNCH

TRY OUR FAMOUS
SWISS BURGERS

Serving Food and Beverages

A Wide Variety of Domectic
and Imported Beer Served
and Delivered

Telephone 463-2834

ganizations or such other organiza-
tions as the Executive Committee
shall designate...shall receive al-
lotments.” The Collegian is one of
these organizations, On February 19,
1964, Dean Atwood sent a letter
to William Noell, then president of
the student body, requesting that the
Executive Committee the

remove
Collegian “from the list of publica-
tions receiving funds...” Dean At-

wood said that the Executive Com-
mittee told him that it didn’t have
the power to take such action, that
only a student referendum could
do it.

Further Consideration

Dean Atwood remarked that the
interpretation of the clause has been
varied. The official interpretation is
that the Executive Committee has
power only to distribute the funds
to the university-sponsored publica-
tions. Sponsorship shall be decided
by faculty.

In a statement, Dean Atwood
told: “...both the faculty and the
Self-Study Committee have expres-
sed the opinion that the Southern
Collegian does not justify the sub-
sidization... Certainly these bodies
have a right to express their opin-

 

ion...

“Tf a case can be made...I feel
that the administration,
the responsibility for act-
ing on the faculty resolution, will
wish to take this into consideration
before taking final action.”

certain
which has

Letters To The Editor

(Continued from page 2)
that NSA

represents the student
opinion it claims? No, but that was
precisely the issue that was being
raised. Funny thing about that.

But after all the Tuesday Edition
is much more anxious to participate
in a “worthwhile experiment” than
to find out what the nature of the
experiment is. I agree that it is un-
fortunate that the issues were not
more thoroughly examined, because
then the NSA would have never
drawn the amount of support it re-
ceived.

Sincerely,
JEEF B. GAYNER

VOTE NSDAP

 

 

Flora Viewed

and to list them all would take at
a page. Some of his more dis-
tinguished ones two years
Southern Conference All-Tourney
team; two years all Southern Con-|
ference; three years all Virginia;
Virginia player of the year (1958);
and Southern Conference player of
the year (1958); honorable mention
All-American (AP, 1958); and first
Helms Foundation All-Amer-
This last honor put him in the
company of Oscar Robertson, Elgin
Baylor, and Wilt Chamberlain
Rival coaches
praise for this unselfish player. Lest-
er Hooker of Richmond put it simp-
ly, “He's the greatest.” Bill Rinehart,
G.W. coach for 37 years, called Dom
“one of fine basketball
my nomina-

least

were:

team
ican

spoke nothing but

the really
players in the nation
tion for All-American.” Fred Schaus,
coach of West Virginia during its
great and now coach of the
Los Angeles Lakers, had this to say
about Dom. “Every once in a long
while along for whom
there Dom Flora is
one of these
Perhaps the
written by Ed Young,
Press for Richmond in
Talking W&L's poor
that reflected, “But long
after the miseries of December 1957,
and January and February 1958 are
raske thall

will remember this W&L team with

years

a player come
is no defense

warmest word
an Associated
1958

weason

wert

writer
about

year he

forgotten, Virginia coliegs

a touch oO awe For thi wa the
year magnificent Dom Flora came
into his own.” Certainly Dom Flora
has become for Washington and Le
basketball the outstanding represen-

tative

 

TOWN INN
ABC 5392 on and off
Sandwiches, Beverages, Dinners,
Seafood
STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
30 N. Main Street

 

 

Employment Opportunities

June, of
many opening in
ginia not covered in college re
cruitment, with AAAA top level

have

Vin

present grads, We

and outside

 

growth companies. Many are agency

fee paid. Phone or visit American |
Personnel at 105 EB. High St. Char-
lottesville, Va. 206-5091 or at 526)
W. Main St.. Waynesboro, Va, 42

1156

Newquist Discusses Movie To Be Shown At State Beginning This Week

(Continued on page 2)

But don’t forget Richard Crenna,
late of Real McCoy’s and Slattery’s
People fame. Can you believe this
guy was once Walter Denton in
the old Our Miss Brooks series? He
was the buck-toothed wonder boy
who used to shatter glass with his
A sharp register voice and spit teeth
at old ladies. Makes you sort of
wonder about the direction of school-
ing these days. But I’m impressed.
He leaves his empty Chivas bottles
lying around.

Made in Paris could be said to
rank among the rank. Accord-

FROGS Stage “Pirates

Of Penzance”? Mar. 17-19
(Continued from page 2)

FROGS or early Savoyards or their
sisters, cousins, and aunts, it is quite
permissible, even highly proper, to
be snobbish. Who but the devotee
knows about Sir Caradoc and the
crimes of Heliogabalus, can tell un-
doubted Raphaels from Gerard Dows
and Zofannies, is aware of the one
art which is the Divine Emollient?
and the cognoscenti, instead of sing-
ing along with the Police Sergeant's
“When a felon’s not engaged in his
employment—(His employment), Or
maturing his felonious little plans—
(Little plans,)” will hear instead the
witty Latin version: Ubi fraudibus
fraudator abrogatis (abrogatis), Se-
cum mediatur nil nefarii (‘arii).”
The climax of the opera, as every-

one should know, is that since, with
all our faults we love our Queen,
we can take heart of grace, for fair

days will shine on us all

Caro and Wood Criticize
Faculty Opinions On Tests

(Continued from page 2

glaring do ex-

any

However, deficiencies
ist and student who has been
around W&L knows them and has
had his education frustrated by them
We students of Washington and Lee
call upon the inverted alchemists to
mend their ways and become the in-
spiring paragons of intellectuality
that they ought to be.

 

 

ing to the more recent tabulations
of intrinsic worth,
Beach Blanket Bingo
Francis flick. But can a
that appeals to the natural aspira-
tions of the grarian (townspeople) ae |
cityfolk be all bad? According to a
local sidewalk superintendent lean-

nie

ing up against,
it falls between | Prominent
and any Con-
flick
pill:

was diss

one
building

city, who at the time was contem-
plating the effect of the bomb on

of t

he

in (town)

apurnted
wanted tuh hee dot Billie flick. Ya
know, she got the heart beat.”

sonny.

more |
the |

I

| Baseball Prospects Bright

(Continued from page 3)

| game should help to iron out these
first game and this first intersquad
mistakes, and W&lL fans can look
forward to a much improved Gener-
al team with increased spirit and
a bright future with many under-
classmen leading the way.

 

Five ideal dates.
Three dollars(*3)

Join in the most adventurous experiment of our time. Opera-
tion Match. Let the IBM 7090 Computer (the world’s most perfect

matchmaker) stamp out blind dates for you.

Two Harvard juniors started it. 100,000 students have done it.
Now you arid 3,400,000 college students in 1500 colleges in 50

cities can sign up and join in!

Just send us the coupon. We'll send you the Operation Match
Quantitative Personality Projection Test pronto!

Then return the questionnaire with $3.00. What you’re like
and what you like will be translated into our 7090’s memory file.

- It will scan the qualifications of every member of the opposite sex

from this geographic area. Then it will select the five or more

matches best for you.

You'll receive your names, addresses and telephone numbers
within three weeks, You'll be what your date is looking for. Your
date will be what you are looking for. In other words: the matches

will be mutual.

FP PCS Cece see esses SSeS SSS SSS SSeesseeasesesseeeeeseesees

Dear IBM 7090,

lam 17 or over (and 27 or under) and I want to help stamp
out blind dates. So mail me my questionnaire. Quick!

 

Name

School

 

Address City

State

Operation Match

Compatability Research, Inc.

Zip Code

See essen enes aca eeOee assesses aseeasesenaeesaseesesed

813 McCorkle Drive, Lexington, Va.

 

 

With this one exception,
GT&E is committed to national defense

We leave it to youth to secure the
nation against little people from
space. In all other respects, GT&E

has the advantage.

It started at the turn of the cen-
tury, when one of our member
companies equipped U.S. naval
ships with telephone switchboards.

Today, GT&E is a major factor
in military electronic systems de-

signed for defense.

Among our contributions to na-
tional security are hardened com-
munications for missile bases;

ground stations for Syncom relay
satellites; two big new radar track-
ing systems for space vehicles; and
the AUTOVON Automatic Voice
Network, a worldwide communi-
cation system that can complete
military calls between continents
in less than 10 seconds.

Our unique capabilities in mili-

tary electronics are the result of a
high degree of teamwork practiced
by GT&E’s family of member com-
panies.

If you're interested in GT&E’s
activities in communications and
electronics at home and abroad,
ask your Placement Director for a
copy of the booklet that tells the
story. Or write General Telephone
& Electronics, 730 Third Avenue,
New York, N. Y. 10017,

&

GENERAL TELEPHONE& ELECTRONICS

mig TAD AVL 100U

GI) OE SUBSIDIARMS Genera Telephone Opereung Con @ 3) states

GTAE lebew

vere ae

Teiep?

£ or ery

Aviomata Lieto

Leaky Lier ine + Sytvene Like wa
