 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

ae « }
NONPROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE i
4 ‘ae PAID |!
Iniveg LEXINGTON, VA z
deter. PERMIT NO. 38
WASHINGTON &
LEXINGT@N, MAR G 198!
Washington and Lee University Lexington. Virginia March 5, 1981 NUMBER 20

 

 

  
     

<=

Panel D

iscussion

atl]

Begins Tomorrow

The presidential news con-
ference — its goals, its format,
and its future — will be examin-
ed from different perspectives
when Washington and Lee
University’s department of
journalism and communica-
tions host a series of panel
discussions this Friday and
Saturday in Lee Chapel.

“The Presidential News Con-
ference: Problems and Pro-
mises” will feature a_ panel
comprised of two former
presidential press secretaries
along with.former and current
White House correspondents
from both the print and elec-
tronic media.

Included on the panel will be
Bill Moyers, press secretary to
Lyndon B. Johnson; Ray
Scherer, former NBC White
House correspondent; Ron
Nessen, press secretary to
President Gerald R. Ford;
Frank Cormier, Associated
Press White House correspon-
dent; Clark Mollenhoff, former
Washington bureau chief for the
Des Moines Register and
Tribune; Sam Donaldson, ABC
White House correspondent;
and Bill Plante, CBS White
House correspondent.

The first of the three sessions
will be at 3 p.m. tomorrow, Fri-

(See CONFERENCE p. 3)

Girl Enters Infirmary
After Eating Mushroom

by Bill Whalen
The girl came into the infir-

mary on Friday afternoon. To
be more precise,
brought in.

she was

To be exact, she was carried
in.

Doesn’t sound too com-
plicated, does it? A girl being
carried around on the Friday
afternoon of Fancy Dress
weekend. Too much grain,
right?

Wrong. The girl had eaten a
“magic mushroom”’ or simply
“shroom”’ and was now having
a “‘bad trip.”

This is not a hypothetical
case, the exact scenario oc-
curred Friday afternoon at the
WAL infirmary. And the condi-
tion of the girl, complicated
with the schoul’s policy on
treating students’ dates, placed
the attending physician, Dr.
James Busch, in a predica-

‘ment.

“Normally, we don’t treat

~ dates,” said Busch, ‘“‘but seeing

as she was carried in, I had no
real choice.’’ Busch said he then
proceeded to treat the girl, who
said she was a student at
Georgetown University.
‘“‘When she was brought in,
she was unable to walk and said
she felt lightheaded,” said the

EC Extends Big 3 Deadline

by W. Cope Moyers

A typographical error in the
official minutes of two Ex-
ecutive Committee meetings
resulted Monday night in a one
day extension of the deadline
for candidate petitions for the
Big Three elections.

The error, made in both the
February 9 and 23 EC minutes,
says that petitions for presi-
dent, vice-president and
secretary are due March 3
(Tuesday) instead of March 2.

‘Inside 1
The Phi
Goodbye,

Uncle Walter
voi

 

Candidates

Questioned .
Ps. 6-7

‘Ninth Step’
Reviewed, ...p.12

 

 

te /

The extension gave students
who -did not file petitions by
Monday an additional 24 hours
to turn in the required 150
signatures to the committee.

Article XI of the student body
constitution requires that
signatures for the Big Three be
handed to the EC by the ninth
Monday after January 1, a pro-
vision President Bob Willis

stressed during the commit- .

tee’s discussion about how to
resolve the problem.

Willis said he was uncertain
whether the committee could
legally extend the deadline
since ‘‘the constitution is ex-
plicit.” He added that a two-
thirds vote of the committee
would be required before agree-
ing to extend the deadline one
day.

But after a lengthy discus-
sion, the EC voted to
automatically extend the
deadline with Willis the lone
dissenting committee member.

“Through our mistake there
is a chance we won't give so-
meone the chance to run,”’ Vice-
President Willie Mackie said.

Two EC members are among
the five candidates running for

Big Three positions, with junior
Eric Myers the only student
running for president.

EC secretary Bud White is
running against junior Blake
Witherington for vice-president
of the student body and two
sophomores, Dennis Roberts
and Bennett Ross, are can-
didates for secretary.

In a related matter, the com-
mittee rejected member Pete
Baumgaertner’s suggestion to
limit at 15 the number of posters
each candidate is allowed to
place around campus, instead
increasing the number to 20.

The committee did agree with
Baumgaertner however, that
candidates be allowed to spend
a maximum of $10, use only one
banner and limit poster size to
84 x 1l inches.

Senior member Marshall
Clark suggested that can-
didates be_permitted to spend
any amount of money they wish
and that no limit be imposed.

“If you place a limit on
money, I think you’re limiting
free discussion,” said Clark.

The Executive Committee
also set March 30 as the

(See DEADLINE p. 2)

doctor. ‘‘She looked like she was
about to keel over and she had
strange respirations.”’

Busch said he then took the
girl into a nearby room and told
her to lie down. Because she
was’ hyperventilating, accor-
ding to the doctor, the patient
was “‘bagged’’ until she began
to breathe normally.

Busch claimed that he was
not aware of whom the girl’s
date was, saying that he had
‘‘seen his face’’ on several occa-
sions. The doctor likewise did
not know the full name of his pa-
tient, saying she gave him only
her first name.

After lying down for approx-
imately two hours, the girl left
the infirmary.

 

Under other circumstances,
an incident of this sort might go
unnoticed. But this was. the first
time Busch has treated a W&L
student or his date for this pro-
blem. And, according to Com-
monwealth’s Attorney Beverly
C. “John” Read, it is the first
time a “magic mushroom” inci-
dent has come to his attention.

But what does a mushroom do
to a person to cause this
change?

According to Dr. Busch,
“magic mushrooms,”’ which
fall under the’ term

“‘psilocybin’”’ in medical ter-
minology, are ‘‘similar or com-
parable to’’ the drug L.S.D.
Busch claims that ‘magic

(See ““SHROOMS” p. 3)

Bouton To Speak Mar.12

Jim Bouton, the former ma-
jor league pitcher whose ir-
reverent inside look at profes-
sional baseball, “Ball Four,”’
became a bestseller, will speak
in Lee Chapel on _ the
Washington and Lee University
campus Thursday, March 12, at
8 p.m.

Bouton’s appearance at W&L
is sponsored by ‘‘Contact,”’ the
symposium organized jointly by
the Interfraternity Council and
the W&L Student Government.

A member of the American
League All-Star team in 1963
when he played for the New
York Yankees, Bouton has gain-
ed notoriety as an author, a
sportscaster and, most recent-
ly, a bubble gum entrepreneur.

Bouton pitched for the
Yankees from 1962 through
1967. He later played for both
the Seattle Pilots (1969) and
Houston Astros (1969-70) before
retiring from _ baseball to
become a_ sportscaster for
WABC-TV in New York.

In 1970, Bouton wrote ‘‘Ball
Four,’’ which sent shockwaves
through the baseball world
because of his candor.

From 1971 to 1977, Bouton
wrote a sequel to ‘Ball Four”
entitled “I’m Glad You Didn’t
Take It Personally” while also
becoming a delegate to the
Democratic national conven-
tion and creating and starring
in a television situation comedy
based on his first book.

In 1978, Bouton, then 39 years
old, came out of retirement.
working his way up through the
minor league organization of
the Atlanta Braves and even-
tually pitching several games
for the major league team.

It was during his return to
baseball that Bouton came up
with the idea of ‘Big League
Chew,” a bubblegum marketed
nationally by the Wrigley com-
pany.

Bouton’s appearance at W&L
is open to the public.
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1981

  
   

EXECUTIVE Committee members, (left to right) Jim Vines,
Willie Mackie, Bob Willis and Bud White vote on elections rules
during Monday’s meeting.

Candidates
The social committee spent

$537 in December, $450 int
January and almost $2,000 in’
February.

Both Willis and Edwards ask-
ed Xing how so much money
could be spent and why so little
of the allocated monies re-
mains. Edwards said he and
many other law students were
unhappy with the manner in
which the committee was
operating and Willis said he was
angry that SBA parties were not
publicized among the
undergraduate school.

‘We are trying to find ways to
unite the campuses
(undergraduate and law
schools) and this doesn’t help us
do that,”’ Willis said.

Xing said most law parties
are limited in the number of
people that can attend because

 

(continued from page 1)
deadline for candidates running
for law school officers and Ex-
ecutive Committee to file peti-
tions. Willis said the election
will be held April 6.

For the third time this year,
the Executive Committee will
attempt to get enough students
to vote on a proposed amend-
ment change to the student
body constitution when elec-
tions are held Monday for the
Big Three.

The committee unanimously
approved a motion reducing
from three-fourths to two-thirds
the number of ballots required
for passage of an amendment -
and increased from 20 percent
to one-third the number of
students required to vote on any

 

 

Prometheus
Raising The Ole G.P.A.

Now that Fancy Dress is but a hangover in our wellhung imagina-
tions, it has come to my attention that the students are actually get-
ting back to work. Horrors! But this is, indeed, the last month of
school ; Spring term is almost here. Furthermore it has come to my
attention that many of you will not, will never make it to the glories
that are, Spring. You will flunk out. Therefore I am offering you a
short lesson in the fine art of ‘‘Nosing.”’

First and perhaps most effective of all ‘‘nosings”’ is the brown-
nose. The history of the brownnose is a well-documented and
odorous success story; idiots, queers, and athletes have all risen
the ranks with their ingratiating probisc. The requirements for
good brownnosing are a decided lack of pride, a big nose, and fake,
but convincing laugh. You will need six cases of tissue paper to
make it through exams, a shovel to pile on and clean up the mess,
and an appointment with a plastic surgeon in early May. The
blacknose is just a deeper, more profound and lasting form of
brownnose. Blacknoses will forever be servile in their relations,
and statistics prove they have a harder time getting off the bottom
of the heap. In addition to the tools of a brownnose, I suggest you
carry a Brillo pad.

Pinknosing is a dying art, though it is practiced on this campus
with resounding success. As a cherubic, yet snotty prep you will
need tortoise shell reading glasses, aviator sunglasses, Mickey
Mouse drinking glasses, long-handled opera glasses (television),
shot glasses, and blue eyes help. A healthy wallet is a pinknose’s
greatest asset, and there are many rednosed teachers who would
gladly trade an A-note for a C-note. Linen handkerchiefs with the
W&L monogram are a must.

Whitenosing is addicting and conducive to sneezing and bloody
noses. A lot of whitenoses have already flunked out, but they say
it’s fun and stimulating. You’ll need a straw and at least one
automatic weapon: a dead (rich) pinknose is a happy (high)
whitenose. Girls love whitenoses, and you might even get one to
blow your nose for you.

If you are a greennose, hang it up in the closet and forget about
success. You might try a pickaxe if your fingers are getting dull.
Blow hard and keep on blowing. God bless you all.

Student Assualted

 

 

 

  

amendment change.

Last week 424 students voted
in favor of the proposed amend-
ment change while 190 voted
against. But too few students
voted and the amendment fail-
ed, prompting the EC to include
the revised amendment change
on Big Three ballots.

In other business, the com-
mittee heard monthly financial
reports from the Student Bar
Association and Mock Conven-
tion subcommittee.

Several members of the EC,
particularly Wills and Jeff Ed-
wards, expressed concern
about reported expenditures in
January and February of the
social committee of the SBA,
which has already spent about
90 percent of its budget, accor-
ding to Hop Xing of the SBA.

I isin Meio

Headquarters for the
Exclusive
Washington & Lee
Club Tie $7.50

AND THE NEW
W&L Silk, Stripe
Mink Tie $17.50

Send orders to:
W&L TIES

ALVIN-DENNIS
102 W. Washington St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

ADD $1.50 for postage

 

  

   
 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

the social committee allocates
only enough money for about
200 students and that parties
are usually free.

Xing indicated that although
law school parties are opened to
all students, the SBA likes to
limit the parties to law
students.

Willis and Xing agreed that
both the EC and SBA will hold a
meeting this week to discuss
ways in which the two cam-
puses can unite and function as
one entity. Willis said more
cooperation is needed in order
to unite the law school with the
undergraduate campus.

The Mock Convention
reported that it had $27,866 in
cash assets as of March 2 and
that work is continuing on the
Final Report.

yg yg yg

cTIC 47
writen, Yo

“

114 W. Washington St.

Track Spikes

yyy 10 0 00 gg gH gg

|

Just For You and Spring

Mainlander Deck Shoes — Navy and Natural
Brooks Guts Nylon Shorts and Singlets

Your Advantage Tennis Shirts
Puma Pioneer Cleats for Softball

by Tom Baker

A W&L student was assaulted
and a noise violation was issued
to a fraternity over Fancy
Dress weekend.

David Stevens, a W&L
sophomore, was beaten in front
of the Cockpit at approximately
midnight on Friday. Stevens
had gone outside to catch a
breath of fresh air when three
townspeople approached him.

One of the three then started
verbally abusing Stevens and
tried to start a fight with him.
Stevens refused and then the in-
dividual grabbed him and
began hitting his head against
the hood of a car that the other
two were standing next to.

Several W&L students were
consequently involved in break
ing up the fight between Stevens

™. Lexington, 703-463-5666

Ie

gor gyynt Udy Uag gat l tna

PTTL

|

and the townsperson. Stevens,
having suffered a concussion,
went to the infirmary.

Stevens is now pressing
charges against the individual
who assaulted him.

Responding to a complaint
made by City Manager John V.
Doane, the police shut down a
party at the Sigma Phi Epsilon
Fraternity house. SPE presi-
dent Chris Quirk received a
summons for violating the city
noise ordinance. The summons
claims that the violation took
place shortly after midnight on
Saturday.

SPE vice-president Henry
Sewell stated that the fraternity
did not receive a warning
before getting the summons.

The fraternity must appear in
court on March 17.

IFC Holds
Special

Nomination
Session

by Steve Perry

In a special meeting held last
night, the IFC received nomina-
tions for next year’s president
and vice-presidet. The can-
didates for the top spot include
Clyde Harkrader of Pi Kappa
Phi, Hall Vetterlein of Delta
Tau Delta and Scott Dacus of
Kappa Sigma.

Although only one person,
John McIntyre of Phi Delta
Theta, applied for the vice-
presidential post, Briscoe
believes more names will be ad-
ded before the final deadline,
which falls at 4 p.m. on Mar. 6.

In order to be eligible for
either position, a fraternity
member must have at least two
signatures. The elections will be
‘held on next Monday, with the
voting booths being open from 9
a.m. until 4 p.m.

In the event that no candidate
wins a clear majority of the
votes, a run-off election be-
tween the top two finishers will
be held the following Monday.

Interfraternity Council presi-
dent Monty Briscoe unveiled
several proposals Tuesday
night in an attempt to resolve
the ongoing battle with the Lex-
ington Police Department over
noise violations. With the aid of
local attorney Eric Sisler,
Briscoe drew up a list contain-
ing four suggestions to amend
the current city ordinances.

Briscoe’s first suggestion was
to increase the hours in which a
fraternity could play amplified
music from 12 a.m. to 1 a.m.
Briscoe believes that the extra
hour would result in a decrease
in summonses issued. Briscoe
stated that the fraternities
would be more willing to shut
down a band if they knew that
they were getting their money’s
worth.

In return for extended time on
noise permits, Briscoe sug-
gested that the police be given a
list of the presidents of each
house, with the understanding
that they alone would be charg-
ed with the noise violation.

Herring Travel

nw

19S. Main St.
Lexington, Va.
463-2197

Pian ahead for Spring Break
Let us help you with your

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March5, 1981, Page 3

 

Presence Of Mushrooms Is ‘Shocking’

(continued from page 1)
mushrooms”’ like L.S.D. cause
either good trips or bad trips.

And in Busch’s opinion, the
girl he treated on Friday was
taking a bad trip in that the
mushroom she ate caused both
bad emotions and feelings of in-
security.

As one example, Busch said
that the girl was ‘“‘lucid’’ when
she entered the infirmary, but
that she was also “scared to
death.” In trying to describe the
girl, Busch said that she was
“just very frightened.”

Busch speculated that one
reason for the girl’s bad ex-
perience may have been that
her body was not ready to han-
dle the mushroom’s different
chemicals. “She had had no
food all day and she took the
mushroom about three hours
before seeing me,”’ said the doc-
tor. “She said she felt funny
about a half-an-hour after tak-
ing it.”’

Busch could only speculate on
the cause of the girl’s condition
because psilocybin is ‘‘a very
unpredictable drug,” according
to Leonard Jarrard, a

psychology professor at
Washington and Lee who has
Studied the effects of
hallucinogenic drugs.

Conterence

(continued from page 1)
day, March 6, when the
panelists will examine the ob-
jectives of the presidential news
conference. Scherer, who co-
chaired a study of presidential
press conferences at the White
Burkette Miller Center of the
University of Virginia last year,
will provide an overview of that
commission’s report.

The second session will be at 8
p.m. Friday when Moyers, who
will serve as panel moderator,
presents the opening remarks.
Moyers currently is editor-in-
chief of ‘‘Bill Moyers’ Journal’’
on the Public Broadcasting
System. He was recently

Jarrard said he was ‘‘shock-
ed’”’ to hear of the incident
because psilocybin is not in-
digenous to the Rockbridge
area. ‘I’ve never heard of it in
this area,’’ said Jarrard.
“Usually it comes from Mexico
or the more tropic regions.”

Jarrard went on to explain
that psilocybin is more

than LSD.”

One danger Jarrard noted is
that users of psilocybin may be
subject to relapses. Jarrard
said that these relapses, which
may result in “fairly perma-
nent changes,’’ sometimes oc-
cur as much as “‘two or three
months” after the psilocybin is
ingested.

dangerous than most drugs
because its effect on the brain is
still not known.

“There are more motor and
physiological changes than in
the other hallucinegenic drugs
because it has a lot of active
substances,’’ said Jarrard. ‘‘In
some ways, it may be worse

 

 

History Of Magic Mushrooms

by Bill Whalen
The history of ‘magical
mushrooms” is as_ cloudy,
mystical and bizarre as the
trips the fungi produce.

According to Drugs From A
To Z: A Dictionary, ‘‘magical
mushrooms’’ were used as far
back as the times.of the Aztecs
of Mexico. The mushrooms
were used then as a sacrament
in religious ceremonies. The
text states that modern Mex-
ican Indians used mushrooms
for divination and worship.

Albert Hoffman, the
discoverer of LSD-25, analyzed

psilocybe mexicana, one form of
Mexican mushrooms, in 1958,
and was able to isolate
psilocybin, an_ hallucinogenic

alkaloid found in_ the
mushroom. Hoffman later syn-
thesized psilocybin.

The text say that Indians who
ingest mushrooms in religious
rites usually eat at least a dozen
at a sitting. The book says these
mushrooms have “a bitter taste
and acrid smell.”

“The initial reactions are
nausea, muscular relaxation,
coldness of the limbs, dilation of
the pupils, and then abrupt

mood changes, often
characterized by wild hilarity...

“After this comes the visions
— brilliant colors,
geometrical patterns, and
myriad scenes sometimes
perceived as if from a lofty
height, as well as aural
hallucinations...They last four
to five hours and are followed
by lassitude, physical and men-
tal depression, and a loss of
time and space perception.”

The psilocybe mexicana is “a
small tawny mushroom which
grows in marshy pastures,
often in cow pats.”

shapes, | |

 

 

 

awarded a prestigious Polk
award for his nine-part series
on the 1980 presidential cam-
paigns.

The final session will be at 10
a.m. Saturday, March 7, with
the panelists considering possi-
ble alternatives to the present
news conference format.

Funds ‘from the American
Broadcasting Company and
Landmark Communications
are supporting the event which
has been coordinated by Hamp-
den H. Smith, associate pro-
fessor of journalism and com-
munications at W&L.

All sessions are open to the
public.

IN YOUR PIT

“‘Home of the best
French Fries In Town’’

Try ‘em with this coupon:

qe ee es ee es ee se ee eee

A Mini Order of Fries

i
25 Cents :
OFFER GOOD FRIDAY MARCH 6 i

during
COCKPIT SOCIAL CLUB
3:00 - 6:00P.M.
ALSO

LIVE TAPE SHO

PLAY BACK

 

Another person who express-
ed dismay over the incident was
John Read, the Common-
wealth’s Attorney. ‘“‘I am_ in-
deed upset with the fact that
such an action would take place
in Lexington,”’ said Read. The
Commonwealth's Attorney
stressed that had the girl been
reported to the police, ‘‘she
would have been arrested and
placed in jail.”

Read, who said he has only
limited knowledge on the topic
of ‘‘magic mushrdoms’’ and

‘psilocybin, said that this was
the first time he has known
about this sort of incident in
Lexington.

Dr. Busch likewise noted that
the experience was new to him,
and said he had never run into a
mushroom problem either at
W&L’s infirmary or in the
emergency room of Stonewall
Jackson Hospital.

Read said that without the
names of either the girl or her
date, no legal action can be
taken. Busch said that he could
“recognize the boy if he saw
him.’’ The doctor said he has
since forgotten the girl’s first
name.

Moot Court Team Wins Regional

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s international moot court
team won a regional round of
competition at the University of
Pittsburgh last weekend and
will advance to the national
finals later this year.

The W&L law. school
represenatives — Samuel N.
Allen III of Middletown, Conn.,
Guy Arcidiacono of Douglaston,
N.Y.; William D. Johnston of
Bedford, Va.; Craig K. Morris
of Camp Hill, Pa.; and Steven J.
Talevi of Oneonta, N.Y.
—defeated teams representing
nine other law schools in the
East Central Region.

In addition, Arcidiacono was
named the region’s best oralist
during the competition.

The national finals will in-
clude winners of 10 regional
competitions from throughout

the United States.

Alan Button, a third-year stu-
dent from Peekskill, N.Y., is
student coach for the W&L team
while Samuel W. Calhoun,
assistant professor of law, is
faculty adviser.

Schools represented at the
East Central Region included

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s department of journalism
and communications will host a
two-day workshop on
newspaper editing and design
March 9 and 10 for represen-
tatives of Virginia’s largest dai-
ly newspapers.

The workshops will be con-
ducted by John Bremner, pro-
fessor of journalism at the

, University of Kansas’ William

the host University of Pitts-
burgh, Duquesne University,
West Virginia University, the
University of Kentucky, the
State University of New York at
Buffalo, the University of Penn-
sylvania, Dickinson College,
Rutgers-Camden, and the In-
diana School of Law.

Journalism Workshop Scheduled

Allen White School of Jour-
nalism.

Taking part in the workshop
will be editors and layout per-
sonnel from the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, Richmond
News-Leader, Roanoke Times
& World News, The Virginian-
Pilot and Ledger-Star of Nor-
folk, The Daily Press and The
Times Herald of Newport News,
and The Free Lance-Star of
Fredericksburg.

Washington & Lee Record Store

Te Seas. on EE iE. EEE
nt pre rer | Hy |

Rock—Jazz—Classical—Folk

Imports—Blues—Cut-outs

TDK and Maxell Blank Tapes

Special orders and suggestions welcome

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1981

éntertainment

 

 

 

“THE NINTH STEP,” a play by Tomas J. Ziegler, is being presented this oiak in the Boiler Room
Theatre by the Washington and Lee University Theatre. Shown enacting a scene from the play are, from
left, Pamela Simpson (standing), Rochelle Erwin, Cyndi Weeks, and Ginger McNeese. Ziegler, assis-
tant professor of fine arts and theatre at W&L, is directing the play which began Wednesday and will be
performed each evening at 8 p.m. through Saturday.

 

Society Shows ‘Aguirre’

by Carren O. Kaston

The Washington and Lee Film
Society presents this Friday
and Saturday, March 6 and 7,
Aguirre, the Wrath of God
(Germany, 1973), directed by
Werner Herzog. The film will be
screened at 8 p.m. in classroom
“A” of Lewis Hall, free of
charge.

Werner Herzog is one of the
two most important directors to
emerge from the West German
film renaissance which began
in the 70s. The other major
director is Rainer Werner
Fassbinder, whose Marriage of
Maria Braun was seen here in
January. Whereas Fassbinder
is interested in the way in which
people maneuver within the
limits imposed by society and
civilization, Herzog is in-
terested in transcending the
limits which ordinarily press

upon human experience.

This quality of his work was
recognizable in the two films by
him seen here in earlier series:
The Great Ecstasy of the
Sculptor Steiner (1975), which
concerns Walter Steiner, the
world’s greatest ski jumper;
and The Mystery of Kaspar
Hauser (1975), which concerns
the attempt to “civilize” a
young man who has grown up in
almost total darkness and isola-
tion from human contact.

Aguirre is the stunningly
photographed story of a 16th
century Spanish expedition in
search of the mythical city of El
Dorado. Testing themselves
against the Amazon River, its
jungle and natives, and,
ultimately, their own
egomaniacal aspirations, the
conquistadors enact Herzog’s
characteristic ca to

human limits. The group, which
never returns, is headed by the
charismatic Klaus Kinski as
Aguirre.

Working in extremely hazar-
dous locations, Herzog carries
into the area of film-making his
ethos of challenging human
limits. As ‘‘auteur,”’ he is the
conquistador/explorer his film
is ambivalently about, thus
closing, in one way, the circle of
artistic self-consciousness
which the New Wave _in-
augurated in film.

The next films in the series
will be Luis Bunuel’s §serio-
comic That Obscure Object of
Desire (Spain, 1977), scheduled
for March 27 and 28, and Georgi
Shengelaya’s great poetic
biography Pirosmani (Russia,
1971), scheduled for May 1 and
2.

 

 

 

 

Ww = ef) a
INE RNID RINE

EOS
im, George’s Hairstylist . Gs
NG ! 136 Varner Lane o
$57 \ ye
> We’re Number 1 i
wo In Hair Cuts, o
J A
$3 | In Hair Care Ay

h Walk in or phone 463-3975 Y
N a) Ae SY Sau i
NEZZSE RS OANA este

JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings
11 W. Nelson 463-2022

Hamric & Sheridan

——Weekly Calendar—

THURSDAY, MARCH 5

5 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar: ‘Chemical Research Outside the
Ivory Tower, vol. 4,” presented by M. Thomas McCall, chemistry
department, Martin Marietta Laboratories. Howe 401; preceded by
tea at 4:30 in Howe 402.

7 p.m. — FILMS: Battle of Britain and Listen to Britain. Reid 203.
Admission free.

8 p.m. — PLAY: Tom Ziegler’s The Ninth Step.Boiler Room
Theatre.

FRIDAY, MARCH 6

3:30 and 8 p.m. — PANEL DISCUSSION: ‘The Presidential
News Conference: Problems and Promises.’’ Sponsored by the
W&L Department of Journalism and Communications. Lee Chapel.
Public invited.

7&9 p.m. — FILM: Blazing Saddles. DuPont Auditorium. Ad-
mission $1.

8 p.m. — PLAY: Tom Ziegler’s The Ninth Step. Boiler Room
Theatre.

8 p.m. — FILM: Aguirre, the Wrath of God (Germany, 1973;
directed by Wener Herzog). Presented by the W&L Film Society.
Lewis Hall, classroom A. Admission free. Public invited.

SATURDAY, MARCH 7

10 a.m. — PANEL DISCUSSION: “The Presidential News Con-
ference: Problems and Promises.” Lee Chapel.

2 p.m. — ‘LACROSSE: Generals vs. Mt. Washington. Wilson
Field.

7 & 9 p.m. — FILM: Blazing Saddles. DuPont Aidutorium. Ad-
mission $1.

8 p.m. — PLAY: Tom Ziegler’s The Ninth Step. Boiler Room
Theatre.

8 p.m. — FILM: Aguirre, the Wrath of God (Germany, 1973;
directed by Werner Herzog). Presented by the W&L Film Society.
Lewis Hall, classroom A. Admission free. Public invited.

SUNDAY, MARCH 8

7&9 p.m. — FILM: Blazing Saddles. DuPont Auditorium. Ad-
mission $1.

MONDAY, MARCH 9

WORKSHOP: ‘Editing and Makeup,’’ for editors of Virginia’s
largest newspapers. Conducted by John Bremner, professor of
journalism, William Allen White School of Journalism, University
of Kansas, and the W&L Department of Journalism and Com-
munications.

ART EXHIBITION: Bronzes and Prints by Leonard Baskin.
DuPont Gallery (through March 27). The gallery is open to the
public without charge weekdays from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

8 p.m. — A one-woman performance by actress Ruby Dee. Lee
Chapel. Public invited. (A part of Black Emphasis Month. )

TUESDAY, MARCH 10

WORKSHOP: “Editing and Makeup,”’ for editors of Virginia’s
largest newspapers. Conducted by John Bremner, professor of
journalism, William Allen White School of Journalism, University
of Kansas, and the W&L Department of Journalism and Com-
munications.

7&9p.m. — FILM: Padre, Padrone (1977; directed by Paolo and
Vittorio Taviani). Reid 203. Admission free.

8 p.m. — CONCERT: W&L Concert Guild presents James Avery,
pianist. Lee Chapel.

— Film Notes

Blazing Saddles (1974) Mel Brooks’ rowdy, flatulent comedy
about a black sheriff in a 19th-century western town. Wild, dirty
and pretty funny, this is regarded by many as Brooks’ masterpiece
(I’ll vote for Young Frankenstein) and it is as pure an example of
his particular brand of humor as anything he’s ever done. A compe-
tent cast helps: Gene Wilder, Cleavon Little, Madeline Kahn,
Harvey Korman, Slim Pickens and Brooks himself, with a guest ap-
pearance by Count Basie and his orchestra. Presented by the SAB
Friday through Sunday, March 6-8 at 7 and 9 p.m. in duPont
Auditorium. Admission is $1.

 

Padre, Padrona (Italy, 1977) Widely acclaimed as one of the
finest Italian films in recent years, this is a stark, lyrical account of
a shepherd who emerges from a life-long isolation to teach
linguistics. Winner of the Golden Palm Award for best film and the
International Film Critics Award at the Cannes Film Festival. The
movie was directed by Paolo and Vittorio Taviani and features
Omero Antonutti, Fabrizio Forte and Savernio Marconi. Shown by
the journalism department Tuesday, March 10 at 7 and 9 p.m. in
Reid 203. Admission is free.

Aguirre, the Wrath of God (Germany, 1973) directed by Werner
Herzog, starring Klaus Kinski, a discussion of which appears in this
section.

 

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March5, 1981, Page 5

 

 

Bye Bye Walter

 

This Is The Way It Is

by John Wells

Tomorrow night Walter Cronkite, CBS institu-
tion, journalistic sage and uncle of us all, will sign
off the air as news anchorman for the last time.
Ever.

Well, there’s no sense in crying now. It’s not as if
he’s being swept away from us suddenly; his suc-
cessor was announced nearly a year ago. But that
doesn’t make it any less sad.

My memories of Walter are personal ones. As a
small child, I used to confuse him sometimes with
another avuncular countenance and TV favorite,
Walt Disney (maybe it’s because they both had
moustaches, receding hairlines, friendly eyes and
the same first name. )

It was Walter who taught me a guerilla was not
an armed ape, he who explained to me early on the
electoral process and our system of government.
His Saturday afternoon ‘‘You Are There’’ pro-
grams were corny and wonderful.

Cronkite led me through recent history. He told
me about Vietnam, Watergate, the hostage crisis
and the new beginning. It was he, not the chief
justice, who swore in Nixon, Ford, Carter and
Reagan. Riots, assassinations, revolutions, wars,
victories, defeats, fires, floods, the stock market
and just about everything else, Walter was there.

He went with Ike to Normandy, followed Nixon
to China and Russia, and participated in a phone-
in talk show with Jimmy Carter. He kept me in-
formed during the hours of coverage surrounding
the Nixon resignation, and when I turned on the
tube one morning last year he grimly told me
about the aborted rescue attempt in Iran.

And the political process! Surely Dan Rather or
someone at CBS will have enough sense to keep
Walter on hand for at least part of the national
conventions and election returns. After all,
they’ve dragged Eric Severied out of the
mothballs from time to time in the years since he
retired, and he was never as popular as Uncle
Walter.

Cronkite is one of the last news veterans who
worked his way through newspapers in the Thir-
ties to radio in the Forties and television from the
Fifties oneward. His news programs are simple in
format, judicious in editing and have consistently
offered the most complete news coverage in the
limited environs of network TV.

The antithesis of the Cronkie show may be found
in ABC’s World News Tonight, the People
Magazine of TV news whose equivalent may be
found only in the movie Network. It is therefore
galling that ABC, gloating over the departure of
their highly-rated competition, took out full page
newspaper ads Wednesday bidding Uncle Walter
farewell.

Even worse, Frank Reynolds, who tries so hard
to be Uncle Frank, is reportedly writing a little
tribute to Walter for the end of his Friday broad-
cast. Please, please spare us! Reynolds loves to
interject this kind of personal pish posh in suppos-
ed straight news broadcasts where it has no
business. Who didn’t want to vomit last week
when, after a story on Prince Charles’ engage-
ment, Reynolds ingratiatingly said ‘‘That’s
grand’’? Walter can say more with an eyebrow
tremor or a lip twitch than Reynolds could verbal-
ly report in an entire broadcast. .

Before I sound like I’m trying to canonize Uncle
Walter, I should like to point out that he is by no
means immune (particularly in recent years) to
flubbing lines, looking at the wrong camera and
continuing to run his mouth into a commercial
break. His vacation time rivals that of Johnny
Carson.

Cronkite has been accused of being anti-Nixon in

 

Cronkite’s programs have
consistently offered the most

complete news coverage in

the limited environs of TV

 

1973 and pro-Carter in 1976 (certainly not 1980). In .

his book The Powers That Be, author David
Halberstam chastises Walter and his men for be-
ing too kind and mellow in their analysis following
the Nixon resignation speech. My telly was in-
disposed a couple of weeks ago and I caught
Walter in color several evenings at the student
center. I was forced to leave one night. when a
fellow student switched from CBS to NBC saying
“Y’m not gonna watch Cronkite’s ------- liberal
reporting!’’

But he has that great voice and style, sharp-
looking clothes and an air of genuine decency. His
almost daily exposure over the years has given
him a familiarity in American homes similar to
Archie Bunker and J.R. Ewing, but in an at-
mosphere of reality and a position of credibility.
He is the ‘‘most trusted man in America,’’ the
quintessential reporter.

What will happen to CBS News following tomor-
row night’s wake remains to be seen. We may as
well wish Danny Boy good luck, after all he’s bet-
ter than Reynolds or Chancellor. And we can be
partially sustained by Walter’s presence in other
news shows and specials in future years; at least
we are not mourning his death.

But that’s not much comfort now.

 

 

 

 

 

LanewStaGurse
ICAMP SEAFARSR

 

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea
Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls). Serving as a camp counselor is a
challenging and rewarding opportunity to work with young people, ages
7-16. Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and character development camps
located on the coast of North Carolina and features sailing, motorboating,
and seamanship, plus many usual camping activities including a wide
variety of major sports. Qualifications include 4 genuine interest in
young people, ability to instruct in one phase of the camps’ programs, and
excellent references. For further information and application, please
write a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don.
Cheek, Director, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P. O. Box 10976, Raleigh,

North Carolina 27605.

Cultural Events Set
for Next Week

 

Ruby
Dee

Actress Ruby Dee will pre-
sent “An Evening with Ruby
Dee,”’ a one-woman _perfor-
mance, Monday, March 9, at 8
p.m. in Washington and Lee
University’s Lee Chapel.

Ms. Dee, whose appearance
at W&L is part of the universi-
ty’s Black Emphasis Month, is
currently starring with her hus-
band, Ossie Davis, in a 13-week
series of dramatie and satirical
sketches on the Public Broad-
casting System. The series is
titled, ‘‘With Ossie and Ruby.”’

A product of Harlem’s
America Negro Theatre, Ms.
Dee is a graduate of Hunter Col-
lege who first received strong
notices in the mid-40s when she
and her husband toured the
country in the drama, “Anna
Lucasta.’’ Since then, she has
starred in numerous plays,
films, and television produc-
tions.

In film, Ms. Dee is perhaps
best remembered as Lutibelle
in ‘Gone Are the Days,” writ-
ten from her husband’s play
“Purlie Victorious,’ and as
Ruth in ‘A Raisin In the Sun.”

Some of her television ap-
pearances include ‘‘All God’s
Children,” ‘‘Roots: The Next
Generation,‘ and “To Be
Young, Gifted and Black.’’ She
and her husband also co-
produced a television special
for young adults, ‘Today Is
Ours,’’ based on her poetry an-
thology ‘‘Glowchild.”’

She has been in such plays as
“Purlie Victorious,’’ Boesman
and Lena” (for which she won

an Obie), and ‘‘Wedding Band”’

(for which she won the Drama
Desk Award).

From 1974 to 1978, Ms. Dee
was heard over 65 radio stations
throughout the country on the
“Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee
Story Hour” over the National
Black Network. She has record-
ed poems and stories for

several major record com-
panies and is author of a new
work, ‘‘Take It From The Top.”’

W&L’s Black Emphasis
Month is sponsored by the Stu-
dent Association for Black Uni-
ty. Ms. Dee’s performance is
open to the public.

 

James
Avery

James Avery, internationally
acclaimed pianist, will appear
in concert in Washington and
Lee University’s Lee Chapel on
Tuesday, March 10 at 8 p.m.
Avery’s performance is_ this
year’s final program in the
Washington and Lee University
Concert Guild series.

Currently a professor at the
Hochschule fur Musik in
Freiburg, West Germany,
Avery has maintained a regular
concert schedule in Europe and
the United States since 1968. In
1975, he was added to the list of
artists sponsored by the United
States Department of State and
has presented concerts under
its auspices in Spain, Italy, and
Luxembourg.

Avery studied at the Universi-
ty of Kansas, Indiana Universi-
ty, and also at the Hochschule
fur Musik where he now
teaches. Previously, he had
been a professor of music at the
University of Iowa.

He is the recipient of two
Fulbright scholarships, a grant
from the West German govern-
ment, and a grant from the
Martha Baird Rockefeller Fund
for Music. In 1965, Avery was a
prize-winner in the Interna-
tional Competition for Inter-
preters of Contemporary Music
in Utrecht, Holland. In 1976, he
was featured on CBS-TV’s
Camera Three as pianist in a
filmed performance of PRO-
METHEUS by Alexander
Scriabin.

Tickets for persons not
holding season passes are $3
each. For information, contact
Robert Stewart, professor of
music at Washington and Lee,
at 463-9111, ext. 232.

Lebo hohh toto stdood

Restaurant

 

 

123 W. Nelson St.

Lexington

LE CaRoinar

What's Happening at Le Cellier

Fri. 6th—Phil Calderone Jazz Quarter
—no cover

Tues., LOth—Rick Gibson—no cover
Wed., 11th—Piano Bar 9-11—no cover

Don't Forget Our Daily Dinner Specials
$4.50 (appetizer and entree)

(703)463-7222

LELLLLL SS hho hhhhhh ood

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1981

Candidates For The EC’s Big Three Answer Que

The Ring-tum Phi asked all candidates for the big
three to answer the following questions. We hope their
answers will help you decide whom you want to run
your student body government and honor system.

Myers President

I, Why are you running for the office you have selected? 100-word
limit

1) The primary reason I am running for E.C. president is that my
current year on the E.C. has been such a positive experience. As a
junior representative, I have involved myself to a degree which I
find meaningful. I would like to extend this involvement to include
the duties of president, such as presiding during honor trials, serv-
ing on University Council and the Student Affairs Committee, as
well as serving as a loyal spokesman for the student body.

2. What are your qualifications for the office which you are campaign-
ing? 50-word limit

) [have gained a great deal of experience this year on the E.C.

This experience has helped me to develop a philosophy that the
E.C. should, to the fullest degree, examine all issues that affect
Washington and Lee students. Other than my duties and activities
on the Committee, I have been involved in various student body
organizations which have served to broaden my perspective on stu-
dent life.

3. The position you seek entails work in two areas: distribution of stu-
dent body funds with administrative duties in overseeing the organiza-
tions which receive funds; and responsibility for upholding
Hashington and Lee's Honor System. Specifically, what problems do
you forsee in either or both areas and how would you deal with-these
problems? 200-word limit.

3) The Budget Hearings held early every fall determine how the
student body tax is allocated between the many campus organiza-
tions. This distribution of funds requires close scrutiny of expen-
ditures committed by these organizations, not just at the time of the
actual allocation but throughout the year, or as long as the
organization in question continues to spend student body funds.
Problems associated with distribution of student funds arise at
Budget Hearings because each organization strives to do a bigger
and better job than last year. For the E.C., this invariably means
that the funds must be allocated judiciously, with an eye to increas-
ing the budget of the big organizations (SAB, Ring-tum Phi, SBA)
at a reasonable rate, while at the same time trying to encourage
fledgling student organizations with modest yet necessary in-
crements. It is the responsibility of the committee to keep tabs on
the actions of its subcommittees. yet as a rule, the subcommittee
chairman and officers run a fairly tight ship.

The Honor system is undoubtedly the most- cherished and
respected tradition to be found at Washington and Lee. Many Honor
systems seem to have gone out of vogue on many college campuses,

 

 

ERIC MYERS

but it has been my experience that honor among gentlemen is the
rule rather than the exception at Washington and Lee. In the past
few years, there has been much talk of a separate honor system at
the law school. This proposition would pose many questions, as
things stand now, yet this type of problem is exactly the nature of
problems I think will be in the minds of the students in the future. A
current problem affecting colleges is the rising tide of legal
challenges to their honor systems. ‘Io avoid this ever-present
possibility at Washington and Lee, the committee must adhere to
and abide by t hite Book. The president in particular, must be
well versed wit .. White Book so to lend safe direction to the com-
mittee’s actions.

 

 

 

Averett Vicepresident

I. Why are you running for the office you have selected? 100-word
limit
‘1. The office of vice president is an important position requiring a
great deal of time, responsibility and conscientious effort. I feel
that the Washington and Lee students want a capable and hard
working man that will represent them in a legitimate and har-
monious fashion. Therefore, I will fulfill my duties with vigor, striv-
ing to incorporate the general will of those who elected me.

2. What are your qualifications for the office which you are campaign-
ing? 50-word limit

2. Ihave had the opportunity to represent both my Freshman and
Sophomore class as president. I was appointed chairman of the Stu-
dent Control Committee. Furthermore, I have been an active
member of the Student Affairs Committee and the University Coun-
cil
I believe that these positions have qualified me to aspire to the

 

JAMES AVERETT
position of vice president. Moreover, I feel that these qualifications
will aid greatly in the duties I assume.

3. The position you seek entails work in two areas: distribution of stu-
dent body funds with administrative duties in overseeing the organiza-
tions which receive funds; and responsibility for upholding
Washington and Lee's Honor System. Specifically, what problems do
you forsee in either or both areas and how would you deal with these
problems? 200-word limit.

3. I have had to deal with the distribution of student body funds
with administrative duties in overseeing how these funds were
used. I see no problems that might arise in the future as far as the
financial matters go. Furthermore, I will take whatever measures
necessary to explore new ways of handling any financial problems
which might arise.

When one speaks of Washington and Lee, one speaks of tradition.
The honor system is an integral and persuasive part of this tradi-
tion. In this area, I see no problems that could arise in the future,
However, one must always be prepared to restructure and over-
come these problems that might hinder the honor system at
Washington and Lee. Trouble does persist by itself when problems
arise; only when those in a position to lead do not alleviate the pro-
blem. If Iam elected I will be firm but fair.

Thank you for your support.

5 ALENT ATEN ATES ANCE ATION EEE EAE TSIEN

White Vice president

I. Why are you running for the office you have selected? 100-word
limit

1) I believe that being secretary of the Student Body this year
gives me the experience and the confidence to execute the office of
vice-president well. Experience has provided me with insights that
only actual workings on the committee could provide. For instance,
I will be in a position to view committee workings closely without
being constitutionally bound to daily specific tasks. This would
allow me the latitude to bridge personality gaps and alleviate bar-
riers before small problems are blown out of proportion. As vice-
president I would make a conscious effort to coordinate the wishes
of the sub-committees, Executive Committee, and the student
body.

2. What are your qualifications for the office which you are campaign-
ing? 50-word limit

2) My experience during the last three years at W&L has given
me an excellent foundation on which to act as a student represen-
tative. In addition to serving as secretary of the student body, I was

 

BUD WHITE
vice-president of my class for both my freshman and sophomore
years, vice-chairman of student control for one year, member of
the student financial aid committee, and a member of the student
recruitment committee. I feel that these positions have afforded
me the opportunity to work closely with various facets of campus

life —undergraduate, law school, administration and faculty.

3. The position you seek entails work in two areas: distribution of stu-
dent body funds with administrative duties in overseeuis, ihe organiza-
tions which receive funds; and responsibility for upholding
Washington and Lee's Honor System. Specifically, what problems do
you forsee in either or both areas and how would you deal with these
problems? 200-word limit.

3) A conflict might arise next year between a demand for new
organizations on campus and available student body funds. As vice-
president I will watch closely the way in which money will be
distributed. If a problem arises I will not hesitate to look for ways to
finance new organizations. I will stress a hardline as far as
budgeting goes, however, I will never shirk my responsibilities in
providing the student body with a diverse set of groups and ac-
tivities.

As far as the Honor Code is concerned, I do not see any major pro-
blems. To be sure it will be challenged to some degree, but
criticism of the system provides it with an inherent dynamic quali-
ty. If any great disparities exist in the White Book at this time, it is

its inconsistent language. There i is no consistency in the ide behind
‘the system!

 

 

Witherington Vice president

1. Why are you running for the office you have selected? 100-word
limit

1) As a member of the Student Activities Board for the past three
years (secretary this year), member of the Student Recruitment
Committee and treasurer of my fraternity, I’ve expressed a diver-
sity of interests. This involvement is important to me and it’s
something I wish to continue. In running for vice-president, I'd like

 

BLAKE WITHERINGTON
to take an active role in what I feel lies at the heart of W&L,
specifically, the Honor System and to be a part of t® Proper func-
tioning of the other student organizations.
2. What are your qualifications for the office which you are campaign-
ing? 50-word limit

2) My experience as a fraternity treasurer will be helpful in
regard to the financial aspects of the E.C. As technical adviser to
students accused of-honor offenses, my active and diversified
background will enable me to bring fresh ideas and a new perspec-
tive to the interpretation of the White Book.

3. The position you seek entails work in two areas: distribution of stu-
dent body funds with administrative duties in overseeing the organiza-
tions which receive funds; upholding

and responsibility for

Washington and Lee’s Honor System. Specifically, what problems do -

you forsee in either or both areas and how would you deal with these
problems? 200-word limit.

3) The Honor System is something that most students would
agree is very important to W&L. Its interpretation varies with each
student generation and even with each E.C. But, I think the spirit of
the Honor System has been maintained. Unfortunately, there
always have been and, probably, always will be honor violations.
However, I think if we can erase any ambiguities which exist within
the system itself, thereby preventing students from rationalizing
actions which might be of a questionable nature — from the stand-
point of honor — I think the system would be greatly improved. In
situations involving money, there is always room for disagreement
as to the proper method to disburse the funds. This has been evident
this year with charges of mismanagement lodged — whether cor-
rectly or incorrectly — against some student organizations. I think
this year’s E.C. has done a good job of overseeing student funds and
perhaps with detailed monthly financial reports, much like those
presented by the fraternities to the school each month, next year’s
E.C. will be able to improve on its record.

Big Three
Elections Are

Monday

Roberts Secretary

1. Why are you running for the office you have selected? 100-word
limit ;
-1) I am running for this position because I feel that the of-
ficeholder should have adequate time to devote to the position, and
should have the organizational skills required to effectively com-
municate the business and proceedings of the E.C. to the student
body. I believe that I successfully meet this criterion.

 

 

 

 

   
   

DENNIS ROBERTS

2. What are your qualifications for the office which you are campaign-
ing? 50-word limit

2) Ihave held several positions at W&L that give me an adequate
background for being E.C. secretary. Last year I was a Mock Con-
vention state chairman and this year I am secretary of the Brass
Ensemble and secretary-treasurer of Mu Beta Psi (national
honorary music fraternity).

3. The position you seek entails work in two areas: distribution of stu-
dent body funds with administrative duties in overseeing the organiza-
tions which receive funds; and responsibility for upholding
Washington and Lee's Honor System. Specifically, what problems do
you forsee in either or both areas and how would you deal with these

The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1981, Page 7

estions On Their Qualifications

problems? 200-word limit.

3) With regard to the distribution and administration of student
body funds and upholding the Honor System, I perceive no earth-
shattering problems at this time. I feel that the administration and
supervision of organizations receiving student body funds has been
improved and that the system should continue to be fine-tuned and
perfected.

The Honor System and its preservation should be of the utmost of
concern. It is because of the Honor System that we enjoy many of
the freedoms that we do. The present E.C. has addressed the pro-
blem of White Book revisions. This should be studied and followed
up with the corrective action deemed necessary. Again, I see no
major problems in the immediate future.

 

 

Ross Secretary

1. Why are you running for the office you have selected? 100-word
limit

1) My reasons for seeking the position of secretary of the Ex-
ecutive Committee are twofold: First, the responsibilities and
obligations of the office are personally attractive. I would like not
only to serve Washington and Lee through this office, but to serve
this institution and its students capably and resourcefully as a
member of the Executive Committee.

Second, I believe that this position would allow me to better
represent the interests and the needs of all Washington and Lee
students. Issues such as co-education and the role of fraternities at
W&L are of vital importance to every student. However, it should

 
   

BENNET ROSS
on these issues that accurately reflects student opinion. I believe in
and stand for that responsiveness in student government.

2. What are your qualifications for the office which you are campaign-
ing? 50-word limit

2) My qualifications for this office rest, for the most part, in my
desire and ability to perform the tasks required of this position. I
possess more than adequate typing and note-taking skills, as well
as an ability to listen effectively. 1 have gained insight into the
University through service on the Student Recruitment Committee
and secretarial experience as secretary of the West Virginia
Delegation to the 1980 Mock Convention.

3. The position you seek entails work in two areas: distribution of stu-
dent body funds with administrative duties in overseeing the organiza-
which and responsibility for upholding

Washington and Lee's Honor System. Specifically, what problems do
you forsee in either or both areas and how would you deal with these
problems? 200-word limit.

3) In the past, the distribution of funds and the administration of
dependent organizations has been managed effectively by the Ex-
ecutive Committee. However, with the emergence of new organiza-
tions and other groups with pressing financial needs, a re-
evaluation of the budgetary process and emphasis is required.
Stress should be placed on maintaining present organizations while
improving developing groups through a firm financial committ-
ment on the part of the Executive Committee. Moreover, the E.C.
should use this monetary license to maintain rigid input into the
operation of these dependent organizations. Weekly financial
reports are not enough; rather organizational efficiency and quali-
ty production should be concerns of the Executive Committee. The
Ring-tum Phi and the Ariel, as well as the SAB, should be evaluated
in terms of student feedback, as well as financial solvency.

In terms of the Honor System, the Executive Committee has
made appropriate constitutional changes and is in the process of
making continued corrections. For these reasons, I can forsee no
future problems with the system or its administrations by the Com-
mittee.

tions receive funds;

be the responsibility of the Executive Committee to adopt a posture -

Only 3
Attend
Big 3
Forum

by John Wells

Candidates for the three ma-
jor offices of Washington and
Lee’s Executive Committee ad-
dressed a number of student-
related issues at a candidate
forum held last night. The
forum was attended by two
Ring-tum Phi reporters and one
other student.

Candidates appearing at the
EC-sponsored event were: Eric
Myers, who is running for presi-
dent; Bud White, Blake Wither-
ington and Jim Averett, vice-
persidential candidates; and
Bennett Ross and Dennis
Roberts, who are running for
secretary.

The candidates stated their
qualifications and then respond
ed to questions posed by
moderator Willie Mackie, the
current vice president of the
EC, and the two Phi reporters
Questions and answers are
printed below; it should be
noted that few of the questions
were addressed by all of the
candidates.

Should the single sanction of
the honor system remain in-
tact?

Averett said he voted against
the sanction while on the Stu-
dent Control Committee, and
said he feels that the sanction is
more broadly interpreted than
the constitution intended. The
other five candidates said they
believe the sanction should be
preserved, with Witherington
calling it ‘‘all-important”’ to the
honor system.

Should the EC _ publicly
itemize its finances as the sub-
committees are required to
do?

White said that the commit-
tee’s mid-term financial
disclosures could be reported on
a monthly basis. He said he
could not at this time support an
itemization of funds pertaining
to honor trial expenses, even in
an ambiguous manner. Myers
and Witherington agreed on
both points.

Should the Ring-tum Phi be
allowed to cover open honor
trials?

Myers said that the White
Book rules pertaining to this
matter were written for the
benefit of the accused. He said
that past coverage of open

(See “FORUM” p. 12)

 

 

GREEN VALLEY
RENT-ALLS

HOMEOWNER &
PARTY NEEDS

7:30a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Monday - Saturday
U.S. 11 North] Mile

463-4680

Prey

 

 
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1981

 

The Various Careers

This is the fourth in a series of ar-
ticles by Sports Editor Ralph
Frasea.

Precious few athletes have
the requisite skills, desire, and
determination to play a sport on
the professional level. Those
who do are in an elite group, to
be sure. However,
demonstrating proficiency of a
professional calibre in one sport
was not good enough for Joe
Lyles. He played professionally
in two sports, baseball and
basketball.

Lyles was a standout athlete
for St. Louis University 1947-49,
which he attended on a basket-
ball scholarship. Lyles was a
member of that school’s Na-
tional Invitational Tournament
championship team of 1948.

‘One of the greatest thrills of
my life was being a part of the
NIT champions,’’ he recalled.
We had a_ 33-2 record, and
ranked first in the nation.”

The lure of a_ professional
baseball contract prompted
him to leave St. Louis U. after
his sophomore year. A pitcher
and outfielder, Lyles signed
with the old St. Louis Browns
organization (who have since
become the Baltimore Orioles)
during the summer of 1949. He
had also been pursued by the
Yankees, Cubs, Cardinals, and
Reds.

“I made the mistake of get-
ting caught up in the fantasy
world of sports. Leaving college
was a mistake, but at that point
I wasn’t thinking about my
future.”

After spending the summer in
the minor leagues, Joe was con-
tacted by the NBA’s St. Louis
Bombers, who also offered the
Missouri native a contract.
After giving it much thought,
Lyles agreed to sign, although
such a decision involved a great
deal of personal sacrifice.

“IT enjoyed playing two
sports, but I missed having an
off-season. As soon as baseball
was over, I started basketball
season,”’ Lyles stated.

Joe worked his way up
through the Browns’ system,
and by 1951 was one of their top
minor league prospects.
However, Korean War service
interrupted his career, and
eventually ended it.

“During my stint in Korea, I
incurred a painful back injury
which sidelined me for some
time.”

Lyles returned to the Browns,
but was placed on the injured
list due to his ailing back. The
crosstown rival St. Louis Car-

    

  
 
 

   
 

Investment Properties
— For Sale — For Rent —

Single Family Homes-Duplexes-6 Unit Complex
(Owner financing available on some)

We Also Buy Properties

Security Management, Inc.

463-3506

Of Joe Lyles

dinals were in need of pitching,
and acquired Lyles from the
Brownies. However, Joe
couldn’t regain his previous
form, and retired. He tried a
comeback as an outfielder with
the New York Giants in 1954,

but broke his hand, which, com-
bined with the haunting back in-
jury, forced a permanent end to
his professional baseball
career.

Lyles also had an interesting
basketball career. After signing
with the St. Louis Bombers, he
spent several years playing
minor league ball, hoping to
break into the NBA.

In 1952, he was selected to the
U.S. All-Stars, the first team to
travel the globe on a goodwill
basketball tour, organized by
Bob Hope. The team journeyed
153,000 miles, playing in such
world centers as_ Berlin,
Munich, London, Paris, Colon,
Rome, Zurich, and Cairo.

Lyles and his teammates
played over 1000 games on the
world tour, averaging about ten
games per week.

“That trip was one of the
highlights of my life,’’ recalled
Lyles. “We were guests of the
Royal Family at Buckingham
Palace, Holland’s Queen

Julianne, and Pope Pius XII.
Everywhere we went, we
played before throngs of ap-
preciative fans.”’ '

After winding up his basket-
ball career, Lyles resumed his
college education, earning his

 

degree at Springfield College in
1958, and his master’s the
following year.

Upon completion of his
master’s degree, Joe Lyles was
hired by Washington and Lee

University, where he took over,

not only as jayvee basketball
coach, but varsity soccer and
baseball coach, as well. He re-
mained in charge of JV basket-
ball for eight years, guiding the
frosh to a 54-46 overall record.
He remained at the helm of the
soccer and baseball teams until
the mid-1970’s. Although not
currently associated with any
W&L sport, he has been anac-
tive Phys Ed professor, taking
particular pride in his in-
dividualized and unorthodox
teaching methods.

When three-year baseball
coach Chuck Kroll left W&L
after being denied full-time
status and the corresponding

 

TRAVEL...EARN MONEY
.. EARN A FREE TRIP...

Daytona
Beach ”

this Spring

Packages are $129 complete
and include lodging at the famous
International Inn,
right on the beach; plus much more.
Interested students, write
ADVENTURES IN TRAVEL
1200 Post Road East
Westport, CT 06880
or call (203) 227-8764
collect person-to-person to
Jeff Robinson, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.

 

 

 

Sports

J.V. Important To
Basketball Program

by John Harrison

One does not have to look very
hard to understand why- the
W&L JV basketball team finish-
ed the past season with a subpar
1-6 mark.

As usual, the Generals’
schedule included prep school
powers Massanutten Academy
and Fork Union, which boasts of
basketball standouts Dale
Solomon of Virginia Tech, and
Kentucky’s Melvin Turpin as
two of its recent graduates. An
even bigger problem was
created for W&L’s hoopsters

when traditional rivals
Hampden-Sydney and .
Randolph-Macon, who were

scheduled before the season
began, cancelled their pro-
grams; thus, the team found
itself lacking four games
against comparable opponents.

Another problem arose in
mid-season, when three key
members of the varsity team
came up with injuries. When
R.J. Scaggs was forced to miss
the second half of the season
due to a wrist injury, and both
George Spears and Carby Hoy

salary, Joe Lyles’ name was
mentioned as a possible suc-
cessor.

Lyles is philosophical about
his professional career. “I
believe that sports teaches a
person that failure is not the end
of the world. I just thank God
that I had the opportunity to
play pro ball. It enabled me to
do things for people. Besides
entertaining, I have been for-
tunate enough to visit crippled
and diseased children in many

 

f
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

|
Contact Us For
|
|
|
|

were forced to sit out a few
games, varsity coach Verne
Canfield and JV coach Howard
Ainsley were forced to put
Henry Bond, Frank Eppes, Jay
Fechtel and Bill Yates, all of
whom had been playing for both
the varsity and JV squads, on
varsity exclusively. This move
left the JV squad with only
seven members. So, in addition
to having an abbreviated and
unbalanced schedule, there was
virtually no bench strength for
half of the season.

Coach Ainsley does not see
the season as a complete loss.
“‘It was a good experience for us
to go up against some tough
teams. What made it even more
difficult was that we were a
smaller team than most of our
opponents. Even so, I believe
most of the guys proved
themselves.”’

After noting that the varsity
squad is losing seniors Rob
Smitherman, Hoy and Scaggs,
he added that the rosters of next
year’s varsity and JV teams -
would depend heavily upon
whom the coaches can recruit.

hospitals, and they are always
excited about visits from
athletes. I loved making them
happy.”

“I miss pro ball now and
again,’’ Lyles admitted.
‘“‘Whenever I go to a game, I
remember how it used to be. I
remember the camaderie be-
tween the players, the locker
room shenanigans, the fun and
closeness we shared. I do miss
it sometimes.”

reer

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Heading South
For Spring Break?

Excursion Fares To
MIAMI, ORLANDO AND TAMPA!

Eurail Pass Headquarters
Budget Travel to Europe

21 W. Washington St.

| CALL 463-7174
© ANI CREE Sp AEE Hy NLR ANI I RR ye ye ee
 

Cagers End Season With

Disappointing Loss To H-SC §

by Dale Park

The Washington and Lee var-
sity basketball team ended its
1980-1981 season with a disap-
pointing 60-58 loss to rival
Hampden-Sydney College on
Thursday, February 26, in the
quarterfinal round of the fifth-
annual ODAC Championship
Tournament, held in Salem, Va.

The Generals. held a 32-28
halftime lead after twice
holding leads of seven points. In
the second half, H-S fought back
to take a 42-41 lead and took a
58-56 advantage with only 55
seconds left. Junior guard
George Spears, who led his
team with 15 points, hit a pair of
free throws to tie the score at 58
with 39 seconds left. Following a
time-out with seven seconds re-
maining, H-S got the win when
guard William Barbour tipped
in a missed shot at the buzzer,

Ironically, it was W&L’s Rob
Smitherman who hit a shot at

the buzzer in last year’s ODAC
Championship game that beat
H-S.

“This was an ironic loss,”
commented head coach Verne
Canfield. “But if you play this
game long enough, the breaks
will even out. I am not totally
happy with the way we played
against H-S, although we stuck
to our game plan fairly well.
Again, our total team concen-
tration was lacking.’’

While the Generals did not
win in the tournament, two
W&L seniors, center Smither-
man and guard Carby Hoy,
received top ODAC basketball
honors. Smitherman was
selected to the ODAC All-
Conference first team; Hoy was
named to the ODAC second
team. Hoy and Smitherman led
their team in scoring, averag-
ing 14 points per game apiece.

“Rob and Carby have proven
themselves to be fine athletes

and fine gentlemen at W&L,”
Stated Canfield: “The all-
conference honor is a fine
reward for their efforts and per-
formances.”’

The Generals finished with a
16-10 overall record, the 14th
winning season in Canfield’s 17-
year tenure.

The eventual winner of the
ODAC tourney was Roanoke
College. The Maroons held true
to their top seed, defeating
eighth-seeded Bridgewater Col-
lege (81-70), fourth-seeded
Hampden-Sydney (76-65), and
sixth-seeded Lynchburg College
(78-53) on their way to the
crown.

Roanoke will now take its 26-1
record to Upsala College in
East Orange, N.J. this Friday
and Saturday, March 6-7, to

' compete in the NCAA Division

III South Atlantic Regional
Tournament.

Track Team Third In Meet

440-yard relay team of Bob fourth.

by Rick Swagler

The Washington and Lee
track team placed third in last
Saturday’s ODAC Indoor Track
Championship, aided by a
record-tying performance by
sophomore Gene Fellin. Coach
Norris Aldridge said, ‘‘We ran
well. I was really proud of our
young men,”’

Individually for W&L, Kevin
Kadesky won the 60-yard dash,
John McKee won the shot put,
and Fellin tied the school record
in the pole vault, attaining a
height of 13 feet 3 inches.

The mile relay team of Billy
Morris, R.J. Scaggs, Kevin
Kadesky, and Errol Skyers cap-
tured first place. Russ Rector
placed second in the triple jump
and fifth in the high jump, and
Alan Armitage was second in
the 60-yard high hurdles. The

Kadesky, and Keith Kadesky
received the third place ribbon.
R.J. Scaggs took third in the
440-yard dash, but in the words
of Aldridge, ‘‘wasn’t quite
ready.” Paul Chapman placed
third in the 880, and the team
composed of Crews Townsend,
Chapman, Howard Herndon,
and Keith Kadesky finished

Jon Kelafant was sick and did
not compete in the meet, which
may have hurt the team.
However, Keith Kadesky, who
missed the Lynchburg Relays
the week before the champion-
ship due to a broken toe, was
back in fine form Saturday, as
evidenced by his performances
in the 440 and two-mile relays.

Booters To Host Tourney

The Washington and Lee soc-
cer team will host the fourth an-
nual W&L Indoor Soccer Tour-
nament on Saturday, March 7 in
Doremus Gymnasium. The six-
team event will begin at 9:00
a.m. and include 15 games.

Teams included in the event
are: Eastern Mennonite Col-
lege, The Arsenal (from

Delaware), the Roxborough

Three Swimmers Compete
In Senior Championship

by Ralph Frasca
Three W&L swimmers com-
peted in the AAU Virginia
Senior Championship last
weekend, held at Virginia Tech.
‘Freshmen Jeff Gee, Gary
Meyer, and Tim Rock competed
in the meet. Gee swam the 200-
yard backstroke and the 100-

Wednesday Night Buffet

OHV hy
Each Wednesday night 5:30 $69

yard fly. Meyer competed in the
50-yard freestyle, and Rock per-
formed both the 500 and 1000-
free, as well as the 400-yard in-
dividual medley.

The Generals will compete in
the Johns Hopkins Invitational
Tournament on Saturday and
Sunday, March 7-8.

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,

Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and
Garlic Bread you can eat for
aba akey ey

600 E. Nelson St.
PHONE 463-7000

 

Bui

 

- i te ee ee a ee ee ee
ey et iti i i
5 tine tainted

(Pennsylvania) YMCA,
Virginia Military Institute, the
W&L ‘‘Machine”’ and the W&L
“Select.”” Roxborough is the

defending champion. The tour-

nament titlist will be determin-
ed through a point system
which awards two points for a
win, one point for a tie, and none
for a loss.

    

ee
es

 

SENIOR CAPTAIN Geoff Brent shooting against Rutgers. (Sorry

  
     

' we didn’t get any shots last Saturday.)

Lax Team Wins
Exhibition Easily

by Robert Massie

The Washington and Lee
University lacrosse team open-
ed its exhibition season last
Saturday afternoon with a 20-6
victory over the Virginia Beach
Lacrosse Club, despite the
absence of several key players.
Head coach Jack Emmer said
that Virginia Beach wasn’t as
challenging as he expected, but
the two remaining pre-season
games, both scheduled for this
weekend, will be different.

Emmer stressed that both of
the upcoming opponents, Mount
Washington and Chesapeake,
will be difficult to beat. ‘‘We’ve
got a tough weekend with these
back-to-back contests against
two talented, strong club
teams.’’ Mount Washington
boasts of an impressive roster,
which includes several former
W&L players, such as_ ex-
goalies Bob Clements and
Charlie Brown. Chesapeake has
already beaten UMBC, and has
lost games against Maryland
and Navy by only one goal.

Despite the loss of eleven
players from last year’s squad,
Emmer feels that he has a very

~ =
natin eaten ti Rtn ta itn Tit Ti tin i tei ite ei tian tay in tin iy ty in in tn tn en nn i ty tii tititind

Aluin-Bennis

Since 1963

Cotillion weekend is March 13th, so be sure to
come by and place an order for your tuxedo rental.
Also for SALE we have in stock 100% worsted wool
tuxedos. Also madras cummerbund sets, all-cotton
tux shirts and other accessories.

STUDENT CHARGE

7-7? eee ee ee eee ee See ee eet ee Dieta ta a A ti a i i i i i ei ei el i i ti i i tn Tt et ti et ei eh he at ties tie ete aie, a

  
      

balanced team, with the attack
position possibly the strongest.
Each position has at least five
returning lettermen, which will
greatly enhance team depth.
Ware Palmer will start in the
crease for the Generals, suc-
ceeding last year’s All-
American goalie Clements.
Palmer proved himself as a
competent goalie in a reserve
role last year, but has yet to be
tested this season. Returning
defensemen will include Jim
Herbert, Don Rigger, Bill Ben-
son, and Bob Grauer, who
returns after a _ season’s
absence. Midfielders for the
season include Geoff Brent,
George Santos, Jerry Broccoli,
Rob Carpenter, and John
Kemp. Attackmen for the
Generals include muscle-man
Mike Pressler, Rob Staugaitis,
Jeff Wood, and George Roberts.

Game times for weekend ac-
tion are: W&L vs. Mount
Washington this Saturday,
March 7 at 2:00 p.m., and W&L
vs. Chesapeake on Sunday,
March 8 also at 2:00 p.m. Both
games will be played at Wilson
Field.

 
 

 

 
   
    
  

MASTER CHARGE

Cicada tae ty ty te tp i ap i ee ee en ee a a a a ee eee

 
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1981

REVIEW and OUTLOOK [

Editorial Opinion of The Ring-tum Phi

El Salvador

E] Salvador is a minute country on the west coast of
Central America. We uaually leave comments and
thoughts on national affairs to the professionals,
however, many Washington and Lee students had to
register for the draft this fall and we think the situa-
tion developing in the little country deserves some
comment.

We can not and will not pretend to be experts on the
Reagan Administration and the plans it has for deal-
ing with the increasing troubles developing in central
America. Most people know by now that the United
States is increasingly concerned by the situation and
that the United States is taking a harsher stance
across the board in cases of any possible perceived
threat to the nation. Some people have mentioned that
El Salvador and its implications closely resemble the
earlystages of Viet Nam. We ask all of you to monitor
the El Salvador situation closely, developments there,
could make a significant difference in your future.
The Washington and Lee campus is often noted for its
apathy, but the Mock convention last spring
demonstrated that students are concerned by
developments on the national and international scene.
You all have representatives in the House of
Representative and the Senate, send them letters
stating your view on El Salvador and the course of ac-
tion our nation should follow.

 

The SAB & F.D.

We would like to congratulate the student activities
board for putting on such an impressive Fanny Dress.
At the beginning of the year we heard EC President
Bob Willis ask the SAB to throw the best Ball ever
—they did. Now we will have to wait and see the EC’s
reaction to the best ball the SAB could throw.

The Big Three

Once again it is time to elect the first three —
possibly the most important three — members of the
Executive Committee. For the second time in as
many years the candidate for president is running
unopposed. We are happy to see more candidates than
in years past campaigning for vice president and
secretary, yet we are worried that more students are
not interested in becoming president of the student
body. We feel compelled to ask two questions. One is if
the only candidate for president so far is the only
qualified candidate. If so, the oppurtunities to gain
leadership qualities at W&L must be limited. The
other question in our minds is why no one else wants
the job. Try to remember that president of the student
body is the most important office a student at
Washington and Lee can hold. Anyone interested in
leading Washington and Lee should start gaining ex-
perience now for the next election. It seems difficult
to have a choice when only one candidate runs for a
post and it is upsetting that only one person would
seek the highest position on campus.

STO 3s
Sas n>

 

 

ar ee ei
es

ne
Aaa

a ORNL
eh Se (]

La *% aE x Y

vx ve A pty

¥

SY
tT} TY sdaba\ LULL?
nT
i

ats an

* Wh,

SRO
ea

i
(

 

y
SS Te

®

 

  

CONGRATULATIONS to the SAB for another successful Fancy Dress.

V7
G
a bay: ey node
Ww
\ E
l
ae th on
\'

 

 

 

 
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1981

REVIEW and OUTLOOK [

Editorial Opinion of The Ring-tum Phi

El Salvador

E] Salvador is a minute country on the west coast of
Central America. We uaually leave comments and
thoughts on national affairs to the professionals,
however, many Washington and Lee students had to
register for the draft this fall and we think the situa-
tion developing in the little country deserves some
comment.

We can not and will not pretend to be experts on the
Reagan Administration and the plans it has for deal-
ing with the increasing troubles developing in central
America. Most people know by now that the United
States is increasingly concerned by the situation and
that the United States is taking a harsher stance
across the board in cases of any possible perceived
threat to the nation. Some people have mentioned that
El Salvador and its implications closely resemble the
earlystages of Viet Nam. We ask all of you to monitor
the El Salvador situation closely, developments there,
could make a significant difference in your future.
The Washington and Lee campus is often noted for its
apathy, but the Mock convention last spring
demonstrated that students are concerned by
developments on the national and international scene.
You all have representatives in the House of
Representative and the Senate, send them letters
stating your view on El Salvador and the course of ac-
tion our nation should follow.

 

The SAB & F.D.

We would like to congratulate the student activities
board for putting on such an impressive Fanny Dress.
At the beginning of the year we heard EC President
Bob Willis ask the SAB to throw the best Ball ever
—they did. Now we will have to wait and see the EC’s
reaction to the best ball the SAB could throw.

The Big Three

Once again it is time to elect the first three —
possibly the most important three — members of the
Executive Committee. For the second time in as
many years the candidate for president is running
unopposed. We are happy to see more candidates than
in years past campaigning for vice president and
secretary, yet we are worried that more students are
not interested in becoming president of the student
body. We feel compelled to ask two questions. One is if
the only candidate for president so far is the only
qualified candidate. If so, the oppurtunities to gain
leadership qualities at W&L must be limited. The
other question in our minds is why no one else wants
the job. Try to remember that president of the student
body is the most important office a student at
Washington and Lee can hold. Anyone interested in
leading Washington and Lee should start gaining ex-
perience now for the next election. It seems difficult
to have a choice when only one candidate runs for a
post and it is upsetting that only one person would
seek the highest position on campus.

STO 3s
Sas n>

 

 

ar ee ei
es

ne
Aaa

a ORNL
eh Se (]

La *% aE x Y

vx ve A pty

¥

SY
tT} TY sdaba\ LULL?
nT
i

ats an

* Wh,

SRO
ea

i
(

 

y
SS Te

®

 

  

CONGRATULATIONS to the SAB for another successful Fancy Dress.

V7
G
a bay: ey node
Ww
\ E
l
ae th on
\'

 

 

 

 
Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, March 5, 1981

‘The Ninth Step’ Comes Highly Recommended

by M. Shaw Pyle

We ought to give this up for
Lent (don’t panic, though, we
wouldn’t disappoint you folks
like that; for one thing we’re
having too much fun). Every
time we have to review new or
experimental theatre around
here, it turns cold. And it rains.
And we have to walk in the slush
all the way to the Boiler Room
Theatre. For a world premiere,
they could have at least ordered
better weather.

Honestly, if the productions
weren't decent, we’d doubtless
succumb to apoplexy (uncross
those fingers now). But for now,
our health is safe (would you
cut the boos?) and we are
delighted to report that the
future of W&L theatre is in
equally good shape. If anyone
doubts this proposition, he has

The reconcilliation she must ef-
fect with the 18-year-old
daughter she left behind eight
years ago is the point of depar-
ture for Ziegler’s exploration of
the ramifications of love
without guts.

The script is, in a word,
superb. But scripts don’t make
for tolerable evenings. Acting
does — and.did. Despite opening
night dialogue misfires, there
wasn’t a bad performance in
the lot. Ginger McNeese as
Joanna, the alcoholic heroine,
was So impressive as to make
us forget who she is in front of
the footlights. She didn’t act the
lead. She wasthe lead. Pam
Simpson, as the yenta mentor,
Eleahor, was the sort of friend
even sober people need. Nancy
Stone turned in a work of art —
not craft — as Joanna’s

employee/victim Maria.
Rachelle Erwin, who has the
charming earnestness of a
Hollins style Gilda Radner, did
only to toddle down Henry
Street and watch Tom Ziegler’s
The Ninth Step.

The Ninth Step is the story of
a woman who is striviing to
overcome her alcoholism. The
symptoms, the drinking, are
escapable. The underlying
causes are not. For years, she
has been tossed hither and yon
(not to mention yon and hither)
by the pressure of other folks’
expectations: the demands of
her mother, her church, her
husband. Never had _ she
developed the inner core that
alone can stabilize the soul. As a
result, she drinks. Like a fish.
This is not good for her mar-

 

Forum

(continued from page 7)
trials, in which no names were
mentioned, was satisfactory
and ‘“‘seemed to provide no
disservice to the accused.”
Witherington and Averett con-
curred, with Witherington
stressing the importance of
total anonymity of the accused.

What should and can be done
about the unofficial seperation
of law and_ undergraduate
bodies?

Myers says he feels that while
law representation on the EC
appears disproportionate, it is
in fact quite adequate

23 South Main Street

 

SERVIOTAR®
LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-2242

much co-working or whatever
as possible between the two
bodies, but physical realities
seperate us,”’ he said.

Averett agreed with the state
ment and said he advocates
more joint social events next
year to encourage integration
on a personal level.

White said that a quick cure
would not be easy, and sug-
gested that five or six years of
consistent action would be
necessary before a desirable
result is achieved.

On other issues:

 

 

&D>

IR)

 

from the people who gave you “The Jazz Singer”

From Werner Bros © Warner Communications Company

 

—Ross said the EC should
receive input from sources
other than the publications
board for student feedback on
the Ringtum Phi and the Ariel.

—Roberts said that while the
subcommittees should be in-
dependently run, he feels that

EC members, as_ student
representatives, have ‘‘the
right to know where the money
goes.’,

—White said that as vice-
president he would assist the
new secretary in performing
the many small _ tasks
associated with that position.

riage or her life, both of which
promptly fall apart. Finally,
she turns to A.A. to rebuild her
life; a process based on A.A.’s
12-step program. It is on the
“Ninth Step’’ — the necessity to
make amends to the other vic-
tims of one’s alcoholism — that

the heroine becomes stalled.
a bang-up job as the wronged
daughter, Melissa, and Cyndi
Weeks left us frankly aghast as
the street child/A.A. member
Tracy — aghast at the
character, which is just what
Ziegler was aiming for.

DAYTONA BEACH

COMPLETE PACKAGE $129
MARCH 7-14, 14-21, 21-28; APRIL 11-18

PRICE INCLUDES:
¢ 8 days/7 nights accommodations at
International.Inn on the beach.
Exclusive Discount Booklet
Free admission into international’s night club.
Free live rock band afternoons and evenings.

Welcome Beach/Pool Party

Complimentary beers from Adventures In Travel
Free souvenir sun-visor and flight bag.

Full program of optional activities, excursions

and events.

Limited Space

Act Now

Mail $25.00 Deposit To:

Adventures In Travel
1200 Post Road East
Westport, Conn. 06880

or write or call for brochure and information (203) 226-7421

W&L Supply Store /Snack Bar

Open 7:30 - 4:00
Monday thru Friday

Great for Spring and Summer:
New, 100% cotton scrub suits

at the W&L Supply Store NOW!!

‘ 4

 

 

 

“ af awesomely funny movie... inthe
tradition of burlesque and the Marx — ;
Brothers... bursts of lunacy from left field.

— Peter Schjeldah! N.Y. TIMES
Fri. 7&9, Sat. 7&9, Sun. 7&9

 

 

 

 

 

 
