Che Ring-tum Phi

Vol. 78

Lexington, Virginia
Washington & Lee University, September 11, 1978

Registration Extra

 

 

Hartog named
admissions director

William M. Hartog, formerly dean of ad-
missions at Rollins College in Florida, was

named director of admissions at
Washington and Lee effective July 15.

Hartog, 31, succeeds James D. Farrar,
who had been W&L’s admissions director
for 16 years. Farrar was named in March to
organize and direct a new program design-
ed to involve W&L alumni intensively in the
undergraduate recruiting and admissions
process.

The new W&L admissions director has
been head of admissions at Rollins since
1972, first as director and with the title of
dean since earlier this year.

He is widely active in professional
organizations and is president- elect of the
Southern Association of College Admissions
Counselors and conference chairman for
that group’s annual meeting ths year.

Hartog’s appointment was announced by
Dr. Lewis G. John’ dean of students. Admis-
sions activities at Washington and Lee are
part of that office’s responsibilities.

A search is currently underway to fill the
newly created position of associate admis-
sions director, Dr. John said.

(A detailed feature on Mr. Hartog, writ-
ten by editorial staff member, Neil Pen-
tifallo, will appear on Thursday. )

Chinese “‘variety show”
to be held in chapel

A troupe of 16 college students from the Republic of
China (Taiwan) will visit Lexington next week and will
present a free public performance Thursday afternoon
(Sept. 14).

The students are beginning a cultural-exchange tour
of the United States. Washington and Lee has main-
tained close cultural-exchange ties with Taiwan for a
number of years now, highlighted by a week-long visit
by a number of W&L representatives to Taiwan this
summer.

The visiting students will give a number of brief
demonstrations of authentic Chinese art forms, rang-
ing from dance to acrobatics. They will play Chinese
instrumental.music and offer excerpts from the
distinctive Chinese opera. Also part of the per-
formance will be a series of colorful folk dances of the
traditional Taiwanese aboriginal form.

The cultural ‘‘variety show’’ will take place on the
new terrace in front of Lee Chapel at W&L, weather
permitting. If the weather is bad, the show will be held
inside the Chapel.

The program begins at 3:30 p.m., and will be follow-
ed immediately by a tea reception in the W&L Alumni
House, to which the public is also invited.

During their visit to Lexington, the students will be
the guests of Washington and Lee’s Asian Studies Pro-
gram.

Classes start;

overtlow

freshman class arrives

Classes begin Wednesday for an estimated 1,350 undergraduate students at Washington and Lee.
With 384 freshmen registering this week, W&L has one of the largest entering classes in its history. Generally in
the recent past, W&L has had freshman classes varying in size from about 350 to 365, the range the university con-

siders ideal.

The unusually large freshman class this year, W&L officials say, is the result of a much higher-than-expected
“confirmation rate’ among applicants to whom W&L offered admission last spring. The rate for this fall’s entering
class was 57 percent, 10 points higher than a year ago and significantly higher than any year in at least the past

decade anda half.

Because of the unusually large freshman class, W&L
has leased part of the old Robert E. Lee hotel for use as
freshman housing, and 31 members of the entering
class will live there.

Statistical data for the new freshman class show that
its members are at least as well qualified academical-
ly, as measured by objective data, as last year’s
normal-size freshman class. Combined College Board
scores (Scholastic Achievement Test — SAT) were vir-
tually the same as a year ago, 1,129 this year versus
1,130 last September. The required English composi-
tion Achievement Test score was up slightly for this
year’s freshman class, at 546, against an average score
of 544 last year.

The ‘“‘average’’ W&L freshman this year ranked in
the top quarter of his high- school class at a mean stan-
ding of 73.7 on a base of 100, and 42 percent of this
year’s freshmen graduated in the top one-fifth of their
high-school classes.

Orientation for the new freshmen officially began
Wednesday, Sept. 6, and the incoming freshmen
departed Thursday for the traditional two days of
meetings at Natural Bridge.

News Briefs

The Algernon Sydney Sullivan prize, the highest
award the Washington and Lee University faculty con-
fers upon a graduating student, was presented to
Richard W. Stein of Jacksonville, Fla.

Stein, majoring in both psychology and religion, was
head of the University Federation and chairman of the
Big Brother volunteer programs and was coordinator
of a tutoring program in the local elementary schools
and of a companion therapy program at the Western
State mental hospital in Staunton, Va. He also worked
at the Presbyterian Children’s Home in Lexington.

The Sullivan Award, sponsored by The Southern
Society of New York, recognizes the graduating stu-
dent ‘‘who excels in high ideals of living, in spiritual
qualities, and in generous and disinterested service to
others.”

W&L has hired 11 new professors who will begin
regular teaching duties this week. Equally distributed
between the undergraduate departments and the law
school, they will be profiled in the first issue of the
Ring-tum Phi. Incidentally, one of the new
undergraduate instructors is a woman, bringing the
number of ‘‘teaching females’’ on the main campus to
an all-time high of five.

Classes for the law school opened August 21, with a
record-breaking enrollment of 344. This represents a
40% increase in the law student body over the past
three years, made possible after the move from Tucker
to Lewis Hall in 1976.

According to law school officials, the number of law
students is now expected to stabilize at 340-350 from
this year.

The first-year law class includes 115 individuals from
68 colleges and 28 states, about 30 percent of which are
women.

 

Former W&L
athlete killed

Christopher R. Larson, a 1977 graduate of
Washington and Lee, was fatally injured in an accident
on August 11 on the Baltimore heltway.

Larson, 22, was a standout athlete in his four years at
W&L. He was a leading midfielder on the Generals’ na-
tionally ranked lacrosse team, scoring 12 goals and 8
assists his senior year when W&L ranked fifth in the
country.

Larson also played basketball at W&L and served as
the Generals’ valuable sixth man in 1976-77 when his
team set a school record of 23 wins and 5 losses.

He was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Emory E. Larson of
Lutherville, Maryland.

Coming up
in the Phi...

Washington and Lee’s new undergrad library, pro-
jected for completion in 1980, is scheduled to be
operable at Christmas. At long last, McCormick
Library will be available for restoration and occupa-
tion by the commerce school. More on this, how the
move will be made, and all the other changes around
— as W&L begins a three-year game of musical
chairs...

With the new library, W&L completes its official
“building boom”’ of the 1970’s. But those of you who
thought an end was in sight may be in for a surprise;
the administration is once again contemplating an am-
bitious new building project. Read which department
may get a new and much needed home in Thursday’s
edition...

William Hartog is W&L’s new Director of
Admissions-read about him on Thursday. And check
out the story on the deans who have left Washington
Hall — where are they now??

The problem of getting your car towed away in Lex-
ington; if it’s taken this weekend, why you will have to
wait until Monday for its return...

More on Coach Fallon, the Generals’ new coach, and
the view for the football season — how he plans to put
the university back on the winning track...

Security policies at the surrounding women’s col-
leges: know them before you get jailed...

Betty Munger, manager of the Bookstore, takes the
plunge and opens a used textbook co- op. What savings
to the students? Look for her column, Eye and Ear, in
the entertainment section...

AND — the new faculty faces, the relative success of
the 1978 Rush season, theatre and movie offerings for
the fall, opening sessions of the Executive Committee
and other organizations, and more. All coming up in
the first issues of the Ring-tum Phi.

Ring-tum Phi staff meeting:
Thursday, Sept. 14, 4 p.m.,
Room 200 University Center.

 

Above is only a small set of the Reeves Collection of
Chinese Export Porcelain, which returned to its
homeland for the first time in July. (The story of
W&L’s journey to Taiwan is covered on page 2.) Most
of the pieces date from 1750-1850, and many bear
patriotic and trade-oriented designs: for example, the
ships carrying American flags pictured above.

—photo courtesy Reeves Collection of W&L
From the editor

All of us on the 1978-79 newspaper staff
take this opportunity to welcome the up-
perclassmen who have returned to the grind
— and a special welcome to this year’s
freshman class.

The Ring-tum Phi, entering its 78th year
of publication, is one of the oldest college
newspapers in the country. Distributed
every Thursday on campus, it provides
regular coverage of the major events on
campus — and the people who make them
happen. An open forum for opinion, we
solicit articles and letters from all areas of
the student body and administration. In ad-
dition, town affairs which affect all of you
will be reported throughout the year.

It is our goal to provide a publication
which will act as a ready guide to happen-
ings at W&L — the who, what, where, when,
and why. In the past two years, the Ring-
tum Phi has grown in size by over 100 per-
cent, and there is now the physical space to
cover the news in a more detailed fashion.
In this regard, thanks are especially due to
the Lexington News-Gazette, which took
over the printing of the expanded paper in
1977.

However bright the year may be for our
publication, there is always a need for addi-
tional staff members. Regular assignments
for reporters in all departments (news,
sports, entertainment, features) are
waiting and require no previous experience.
In addition, positions on the editorial staff
are available for those who qualify. And our
business manager, Peter Goss, will be tak-
ing several new people into the advertising,
subscription, and circulation operations.
None of these jobs require demanding
amounts of time; yet, they are an excellent
way (especially for freshmen) to get involv-
ed on campus.

If you are interested, make your move
quickly — before all the best assignments
are taken. Sign up at the matriculation
table on Mon-Tues, Sept. 11-12. Also, all are
invited to attend the first open staff
meeting: Thursday, September 14, at 4pm
in the newspaper office, Room 200 of the
University Center building. At this meeting,
assignments will be given out for the second
issue, and new reporters will be introduced
to their various department editors.

I believe that we have assembled an ex-
cellent central staff for the year. All that re-
mains is for those of you who are interested
to make your presence known. I look for-
ward to meetinn you during the week, and
at the meeting on Thursday afternoon.

M. Gray Coleman, Editor-in-Chief

The Asian Studies Program
of

Washington and Lee University CHINESE

CULTURAL
VARIETY
PROGRAM

from the Republic of China (Taiwan)

cordially invites you to a

 

Performances of Chinese music (instru-
mental compositions)

: Folk dancing, including incredibly colorful
ancient aboriginal Taiwanese dances

Acrobatics
Chinese opera extracts
Painting demonstrations

 

and more!

Thursday
September 14,
3:30 pm.
Lee Chapel
Washington and Lee University

Tea and reception in honor of the 16 Chinese student
guests immediately afterward at the W&L Alumni House

 

 

 

 

 

Robert E. R. Huntley (right), president of Washington and Lee University, received the Cultural Decoration
from the Republic of China (Taiwan) at a formal ceremony in Taipei.
The medal is the highest honor of its type the nationalist Chinese government can confer on a foreigner.

Huntley’s was only the 11th ever awarded.

Presenting the decoration is Chu Hwei-sen, the Chinese minister of education. The ceremony took place in

Taiwan’s National Museum of History.

The award recognizes a broad variety of cultural and academic exchange programs between Washington and

Lee and the Republic of China.

WE&L brings Reeves Collection to Taiwan

As usual, the departure of the students in June brings
a strange quiet to Washington and Lee. But several
university figures created excitement by leading a ma-
jor cultural tour to Taiwan, bringing W&L to the
headlines of newspapers a hemisphere away.

An exhibition of porcelain art objects exported from
China 150 to 250 years ago opened July 16 in the
Republic of China — marking the first time, according
to the Nationalist Chinese ambassador to the United
States, that the Chinese people had the opportunity to
see for themselves the art which formed an important
part of their ancestors’ foreign trade.

The 100 porcelain objects are from W&L’s Reeves
Collection of Chinese Export Porcelain, donated to the
university 11 years ago. A major part of the collection,
which contains 2,000 items in all, has been on a United
States tour since 1974, and it is now regarded as one of
the most important collections of its kind.

The Reeves Collection, which contains 2,000
porcelain items in all, was donated to Washington and
Lee in 1967 by Euchlin D. and Louise Herreshoff
Reeves of Providence, R.I., who had spent their entire
married life assembling the collection. Mr. Reeves was
a 1927 graduate of the Washington and Lee law school.

The exhibition in Taiwan grew out of the interest of
the Chinese ambassador to the United States, James C.
H. Shen, and his wife, who first saw the Reeves Collec-
tion — the first Chinese export porcelain they had ever
seen — when it had its premiere exhibition in Norfolk
in 1974 in connection with the American Bicentennial.

Mr. and Mrs. Shen subsequently visited Lexington to

Glee Club auditions

The Glee Club of Washington and Lee has a busy
year ahead of it, including concerts with Sweet Briar,
Hollins, and Meredith Colleges. The Washington Holi-
day tour will feature visits to New Orleans and Atlanta,
and there will be campus appearances at Parents’
Weekend, Christmas, and Baccalaureate.

The club has openings in both the tenor and bass sec-
tions and auditions for new members will be held Mon-
day through Thursday, September 11 through 14 from
4:00 to 5:30 in the music room of the student center.

Dr. Gordon Spice, director of the Glee Club, invites
any W&L student to audition, whether he has had any
previous singing experience or not.

LSAT NOTICE

All students interested in taking the Law School Ad-
mission Test for entrance into law school in 1979 should
remember that the first administration of the test will
be on October 14 on the W&L campus.

Applications to take the test must be postmarked no
later than September 14 .

Applications and the LSAT Bulletin are available
now in the University Center office, Room 104

 

view the permanent collection while the Bicentennial
selections were on a nationwide tour sponsored by the
Smithsonian Institution. The Shens also presented a
number of original and reproduction art works to
Washington and Lee as a gift from the Republic of
China.

According to Shen, ‘‘Under ordinary circumstances,
sending porcelain to China would be like carrying coals
to Newcastle, because it was in China that porcelain
originated, many centuries ago.”’

But because the items in the W&L collection were
made specifically for export, he said, ‘‘most Chinese
people have never seen them before.”’

The pieces loaned by Washington and Lee to the Na-
tional Museum of History in Taipei — the Nationalist
Chinese provisional capital, located on the island of
Taiwan — represent the most important kinds of
decorative patterns from the early trade between
China and the United States following the Revolu-
tionary War.

Among the items, for instance, is a dinner plate own-
ed by George Washington, and pieces owned by other
Revolutionary heroes. Other pieces in W&L’s Chinese
exhibit combined traditional Chinese designs such as
the flower-and-butterfly ‘Fitzhugh’ with American
eagles, flags and similar patriotic scenes and
emblems.

Also instrumental in arranging the Taiwan exhibi-
tion was Prof. I-Hsiung Ju, artist-in- residence at
Washington and Lee, a native of China and a leading
Chinese artist who has long been associated with the
National Museum.

Representing Washington and Lee at the opening in
Taiwan July 16 were President and Mrs. Robert E. R.
Huntley; Prof. and Mrs. Ju; and James W. Whitehead,
university treasurer and curator of the Reeves Collec-
tion, with Mrs. Whitehead.

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Editor-in-Chief Business Manager

M. Gray Coleman Peter H. Goss
ee re Randolph P. Smith
ee eee Jim Ingham
Entertainment Editor ............... Parker Potter
gS ee Chris Volk
NS ee Tom Bartlett
I oo os ss John Cole
MN UIE hs Wes kG sb ee bis Neil Pentifallo,

Kevin Dwyer, Charlie Smith, Mark Mainwaring
fee gf John Trump
Advertising Manager ............. Keith Van Lanen

 

ProducnhonAagvied..............< Pam Hartless

 

 

 

a_i ae eee
