 

-

 

  
 

on

-f

America's ﬁrst recorded strea ker
wasa W&L alum?

Women's Lax claims ODAC title

, Continuing theirdomination, the W&L
women claim two more victories to move

on to nationals.

OVPINIONS/page3 SPORTS/page6

 THE

- IT IH£ STUDENTS AID FOR THE SILIDEIIIS SIIICE ‘lB9TvoLuMEcxiv,NuMBERi8

MONDAY, MAY 9, 2011

WASHINGTON AND LEE Ui~;wERsin'

ING-TUM P1-11.

  

‘ Mock Con Spring Kickoff

O

I

  
  
    
  
 

 

it

_Bush_ advisor Karl Rove delivers keynote address F

, By Leigh Dannhauser

STAFF WRITER I

Karl Rove, former deputy chief of staff

for President George W. Bush and now

a Fox News contributor, addressed the
VWashingt_on and Lee community last Sat-
urday evening as the keynote speaker for
the 2012 Mock Convention kickoff week-
"end." ‘ 1’

Students, faculty, alumni, parents and
other community members ﬁlled nearly all
the seats on Lee Chapel lawn for Rove’s
speech.

F Rove opened with advice on how to
Jimderstand the upcoming election.

'_ "To look at the coming election, you
need to look at the recent past” Rove said.
‘ Rove was alluding to the gains-that the
‘Republican Party made during the 2010
‘fmidterrn elections. He said that these gains
ﬁjwere‘ made because the independent voters
ijcaine out for Republicans over dynamic
‘-issues such'as the stimulusibill.

 Rove spent. much of his speech on
—.President Qbama’s stimulus bill. Rove
pointed out what he considers discrepan-

7'cies:jbetween the realities of the bill and
how it’s‘ beendescribed.

» V“Every single promise made about this
-bill is -turning‘-,‘out notto be true,” Rove
said. '   ”  A

",Rbve also cited. health care reform as
."‘,ax1‘a:rea where Obama has not delivered
bwhat hepromised.

According to Rove, although Obama

promised no taxes:-on health care for in-

: dividuals, taxihg health care companies
led them to jack up their prices. In the end,

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Rove said, consumers were still hurt.

Audience members had differing view-
points on what Rove had to say, especially
about the stimulus plan.

At least one student said the speech felt
like “a rant against the stimulus bill.”

First-year Liz Olson disagreed.

“He made a good point in addressing
the unnecessary parts of the plan and how
the title is deceiving” Olson said, referring V
to Rove’s claim that the bill is actually a ‘
spending bill.

, Although most of his speech focused
on Obama’s policies, Rove did address the  
upcoming election. '

“Who will be the Republican nominee?
l have no idea” he said. J

Rove continued to say that this Repub-
lican nomination is going to be different
because, for the first time in decades, there
is no “front runner” among the Republi-
cans.

Whoever the Republican nominee will
be, Rove said, he (or she) has three main
challenges to face.

The nominee must prove why Obama
should no longer be president and why he
should be instead. He must both unify the
party and reach outside its ranks. Most im-{
portantly, Rove said, there must be some
moment where the future nominee proves
he can handle thepresidency.

No matter who the Republican nomi-
nee is, Rove said the 2012 election will be
“one of the most consequential in Ameri-
can history.”

 
 

Karl Rove, former degut-y c-h1_i_efo__f staffifor President George
Bush, spokethe C-olonnggglawn last Saturday as part
Mock C-omiiemtiomls spnimg kic-koff.

 

STEELE BURROW / head p ographei

How sweet it is.‘ famous cakemaker designs realistic Colonnade cake for students to enjoy at convention kickoﬂ BBQ -

By Valaree Tang
s TA F F w R I T E R

A cake created by the bakery fea-
tured in the Food Network show “Ace of
Cakes,” was one ofthe highlights oflast
weekend’s spring kickoff festivities.

The red velvet-ﬂavored cake was
molded in the shape of the Colonnade,
with ﬁve political ﬁgures on the Colon-
nade lawn, including Sarah Palin and
Donald Trump. The main cake was also
supplemented by one lemon-berry sheet
cake and one mudslide sheet cake.

Wanting to get publicity outside the
traditional newspaper, Mock Con Media
and Communications Chair Kali McFar-

 

land contacted Charm City Cakes.

“One of the approaches that my co-
chair, Katie Stewart, and l were looking
for this year is to take publicity outside
of the traditional political newspapers
and blogs so that they can focus on the
natural lifestyle aspect of the conven-
tion,” said McFarland.

McFarland’s interest in Southern Liv-
ing and the Cooking Channel were inspi-
rations for contacting Charm City Cakes
and working with the bakery to create a
special cake for Mock Con.

Though McFarland did not work

fl’
vim created by Gharm ﬂc-akes of "Ace of C-akes” fame. "

‘directly with Duff Goldman, the man

responsible for the success of “Ace of
Cakes,” she corresponded with general
manager Mary Alice over the phone and
email.

McFarland and Stewart decided on a
cake resembling the Colonnade because
they wanted something that was repre-
sentative of Washington and Lee.

“We wanted something that was
iconic ‘W&L, and we wanted something
that would be special to the convention,”
McFarland said. “The Mock Con logo
this year is the Colonnade with elephants

ﬂanking either side of it, so we thought
‘What’s more iconic than the Colon-
nade and the fact that it tied in with the
logo?”

The cake was served during the bar-
beque, which featured pulled pork sand-
wiches, veggie burgers, baked beans,
salad, coleslaw, watermelon and cook-
ies. . _

General Chair Tricia King, Political
Chair Zach Wilkes and Personnel Chair
Tucker Pribor participated in the cere-
monial cake cutting during the barbeque.

Student response to the cake was

mixed. Some barbeque attendees seemed
to be less than impressed with the cake.

“The cake features detailed work,'but
I thought that it was going to be bigger,”
said Lauren Laskowski.

Other students thought that the “Ace
of Cakes” cake was a “good use of
funds” and “money well spent.”

The barbeque in which the cake was
featured was part of a new revamped
spring kickoff event which included a
band party in Red Square that featured
two bands.

    

‘ I ; -iv ‘
WASHINGTOIIILEEIINIVERSITY
LEXINGTON,“ 24450

mi? mm“

r""' -L

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MAY 9,2011

opinions

 

Stereotyping the W&L cultu re  

Our opinions editor examines the nuances tied to campus, singling out some of the unspoken, yet accepted, behaviors

By Stockton Bullitt
OPINIONS EDITOR

It’s notmuch of anopinion to say that Washington and Lee is a pretty unique school. I mean, just look at Spring Term. What other school has anApril Spring Break (in case you haven’t noticed, we have the same

- Spring Break as high schools, which makes hooking up even more dangerous) followed by a four week term that features classes ranging from rigorously demanding to ‘-‘material to ‘glance at while ﬂoating down the
Maury?”-Our school: isﬁlled with little nuances that are unique to only our special blend of NESCAC and SEC. Some of these little nuances are good things, like the factlthat we are the only school that celebrates
a dead guy buried in our backyard, our courageous support of dodgeball in the face of tragedy and our unquestioned support for an annual Marchprorn that comes in thelform of Fancy Dres's.However, some of our
little nuances can comein-bad forms. For example, we are deﬁnitely the only liberal artsschool that can have empty seats at a Karl Rove speechfor apathy rather than protest. Hey,-at least we loved the cake from a

Food Network show that no longer exists!-_A.nyway, I documented some of these nuances that are unique to W&L culture. These are b_y’no_ means emblematic of the entire population of W&L students, but there g ‘
are distinct trends that Ighaverseen over my three years herein Lexington. If you don’t think that what I’m writing is entirely accurate, feel free towrite in and callme out on it. Since there isonly one more

. Ringqium Phiissue after this one,‘I can’t respondwith an article trashing your major, And, for those who believe that this is horribly libelous, I wrote this during an active afternoon at the Pole Houses, so ‘most of

this is empirical research. _ I . .

So without further ado, here are some nuances and types of people unique to W&L with elite phrases attached to them. Think of this as your own personal stereotyping of W&L, And yes, I know that I’m contribut-
ingto the degradation of our school’s culture, but let’s be honest, there’s‘a reason I save the nasty articles for the Spring Term issues: nobody bothers to read them because tubing is just too damn fun. :

Skull Givers

The name for the chasers of Phi Kap
men. Every fraternity has their respec-
tive fan club, but no fan club follows
their fraternity with the same dedication
and fervor as the Skull Givers. I don’t
know whether it’s the culture of the
school or simply these girls’ upbringing,
but there is something about the com-
bination of long hair, brightly colored
lacrosse shorts, no shirt, and the Pole 4
porch that makes these girls extremely
attracted to the Phi Kap men.

These girls come in two distinct
breeds. Both breeds blend together
during the few times when attention is
given to them by the Skulls. When they
are given the attention they deserve, the
Skull Givers get a rush of joy equal to
that of a kid on a Christmas morning.
To launch a water balloon off the Pole
4 porch is deﬁnitely a highlight of their
college careers.

However, these two distinct breeds
show their true nature when they are ig-
nored. The ﬁrst of these breeds chooses
to give all their love and attention to a
“lesser being.” This love is genuine and
wonderful when the breed is alone with
the lesser being. However, once they’re
at a party with the desired Skulls, the
lesser beings suddenly turn into fumi-
ture more ignored more than Dupont’s
study carrels. \

The other breed of Skull Givers are
the ones who, regardless of how ignored
they are, stick religiously by Phi Kap
through thick and thin. These girls are
willing to spend entire parties listen-
ing to the bros converse among them-
selves, happy to stand on the periphery .
of the conversation. These girls tap on
the shoulders of their prey and have
the same efficiency of getting their at-
tention as these boys do of hitting any-

thing substantial when they launch wa-
ter balloons. That is, the girls are often
ignored. But they always succeed in the
end because anyone who can stand to
watch ﬁst pumping while naked boys
ﬂaunt their business in the backyard de-
serves proper attention.

Mid-level Fantasy ,

This is the name for the group of
guys from mid-level fraternities (Beta,
Phi Psi, Pi Phi, Fiji, Sigma Chi, etc.)
who have a much higher opinion of
themselves than they probably should.
If you confront them about this fact,
they will smile and say, “Naw, we just
like to keep to ourselves and drink in
our own house.” They will say this like
it’s a good thing, when in fact, that is
just a nice way to say they’re into binge
drinking. These guys are the types of
frat stars who agree to socialize with a
certain sorority with whom they don’t
usually hang out. And instead of sim-
ply settling for a nice, little social, these
Fantasy Frat Stars take the reins and turn
the social into an all-day affair, located
at a sorority girl’s house but run by the
fraternity. This party is advertised as a
campus-wide affair, but in reality it’s a
chance for these Fantasy Frat Stars to
have a ﬁve keg party for themselves at
someone else’s house. The actual party
may not have that many people, but at
least these Fantasy Frat Stars can live in
their own little worlds of social success.

Sigma Chi Phase

This is more or less an extinct part
of W&L, so I feel free commentating
on it. For the last few years, every guy
would go through a Sigma Chi Phase
for at least two weeks during their ﬁrst
semester in Lexington. Now, obviously
most guys will never admit to being

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR

HEAD PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT:
RING-TUM PHI to ace
thoroughly report news
and Lee community

accountable. Through

PHI is a member of T

welcomes all letters.
edit submissions for co

newspaper observes cu
libel and

4
THE RIN

WASHINGTON AN

TELEPHONE: (

'Il'iammu.uo1.uiJvrIusrn

THE RING-TUM PHI.

parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders

to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM

can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but

is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI

and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This

UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
FAX: (540)458-4059

EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
STOCKTON BULLITT
PAIGE GANCE

JAYNA JOHNS
KATHERINE ROBERTS.

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
ALI GREENBERG
PATRICK SMITH
VALAREE TANG
SAGE UM

JULIANNA SATTERLY
STEELE BURROW
MATT GOSSETT
KELLY LANE

JOE MORAVEC
ZABRIAWN SMITH
EVAN SHARBER
DAVE WILSON

it is the mission of THE
urately, truthfully, and
affecting the Washington
for students, faculty,

our reporting, we aspire

he Media Board, which

We reserve the right to
ntent and length. Letters

rrent court definitions of
obscenity.

G-TUM PHI
D LEE UNIVERSITY

540) 458-4060

completely infatuated with Sigma Chi
for at least a little part of their Freshman
Fall, but deep down, every guy reading
this remembers the time they told their
friends, “Hey, say what you want about
Sigma Chi, there is no better party than
Pole 3.” This was before they discov-
ered the wonder of Windfall and before
they realized that Sigma Chi was not the
center of the fraternal universe at W&L.

This is no longer the case with W&L.
Sigma Chi has joined the rest of the fra-
temity landscape and has appealed to
their speciﬁc niche of W&L student.
Now, contented with their lot, the Sigma
Chi Phase has vanished only to be re-
placed by the KA phase. This phase ap-
peals to the freshman girl more so than
a freshman boy, as an opinion writer so
beautifully illustrated with graphs and
data in an earlier article. KA has nioved

' away from epitomizing the Southern

fraternity, a title they left to SAE, in
favor of appealing to the broader base
of freshman girls and boys whose last
names sound like items on the Salemo’s
menu. Now, every freshman girl enters
their KA phase during Orientation Week
and leaves it...wait, have they gotten
over that phase yet? Note: I know that
KA will be extremely mad that I’m de-
scribing them in this sense. They will
probably try to pick a ﬁght with me the
next time I try and change the song at
a party they are not hosting. But, am I
really insulting you that much by say-
ing that freshman girls love you? Think
about it.

”Late Night”

Thanks to noise ordinances instituted
in Rockbridge County, the term “Late
Night” has a unique deﬁnition to W&L
students. For other schools and even

,in most cities, the term “Late Night”
means 2 in the morning or later. A few
years ago, “Chi Psi Late Night” was
understood to be a party attended once
the clock struck one. However, thanks to
LexPo, W&L’s version of “Late Night”
refers to 11:30. Personally, I don’t think
that the term “Late Night” should be
used while Wendy’s is still open, but
here we are. I know grandmothers that
are awake during our version of “Late
Night,” but with LexPo’s help, we’ll
soon be calling it “Late Night” once the
sun goes down.

W&L Relationship

Seen by many adults here as the de-
mise of modern society, the W&L rela-
tionship is evident all around campus.
The W&L relationship can easily be de-
ﬁned as a relationship in which both par-
ticipants do not see each other or inter-
act with each other during most hours of
the day. The interaction can start during
pre—games for parties, but usually ends
up with ﬁrst meetings during the actual
party and true affection only manifest-
ing itself drunkenly on the dance floor.
Once the party hits midnight, the rela-
tionship is in full swing, and the two
participants are truly intertwined in
love. If this is an experienced relation-
ship, a party will not be complete until
the ﬁrst loud ﬁght breaks out between
the two causing friends of both parties to
roll their eyes and attempt to diffuse the
situation. The night is ultimately spent
together and sometimes, maybe, morn-
ing brunch is shared, but by noon, these
two participants in the W&L relation-,
ship are alien to one another. The only’
reference to their nighttime lovers oc-
curs during gossip sessions with friends,
otherwise these couples do not interact
in any way while the sun is up and work
is to be done.

The W&L relationship usually works
ﬁne for both parties involved until it
comes time to break up. The boy usually
initiates the breakup by treating the girl
at night like he usually treats her during
the day. In other words, he completely
ignores her entire existence at parties
the same way he ignores her entire ex-
istence on the hill. The boy tends to act
clueless whenever this girl’s name is
mentioned, and the girl tends to take out

7,

her frustrations on some unsuspecting
dance floor victim. These speculative
relationships and subsequent breakups
are widespread enough to be described
thusly by one senior: “every single one
of my friends has gotten broken up with
without being in a relationship.”

Speculative Hatred

Admittedly, this is more of a general
college trend, rather than something
speciﬁc to W&L. Still, there is plenty of
speculative hatred that goes around. Ev-_
eryone has had this circumstance occur
in their own respective gossip circles.
One of your friends comes in to lunch
one day exasperated telling you how
much they hate a certain person for a
legitimate reason. Your friends, being
supportive of their ally, support that
person’s claim. Then, over the course of
the next few weeks, friends start trash-
ing the now hated person for acts that he
or she did or did not commit. Soon, the
gossip circle has a hatred bubble for this
person, and there is seething hatred for
a person who probably has only com-
mitted one or two social indiscretions.
The trend is completed when someone
in your circle begins the conversation
by saying, “You know, Hated Person re-
ally isn’t so bad.” And thus, the bubble
is burst when the entire group starts now
sharing anecdotes about how saintly the
formerly evil person is. The comical
part of this whole process is how oblivi-
ous ‘Hated Person is to the entire event.

On another note, it’s very interesting
to see how quickly the Terrorism Bubble
burst in 2011. With the death of Osama
bin Laden and the Arab Spring, it’s now
not a great time to be a terrorist. Back
in the mid-2000s, terrorism was so big
that even people from rural Alabama
were signing up (no, seriously, that
happened), and now the 2011 terrorist
sector looks a lot like the 2008 hous-
ing market. I’m so glad I shorted ter-
rorism in 2010, and I ﬁnd it incredibly
interesting that Pokemon would outlast
terrorism. Enough terrorism jokes? Yes?
Moving on...

Rabbhs

You know that guy in your frater-
nity who only eats salad and gasps at
the mere mention of fried food? Well,
he is your fratemity’s rabbit precisely
because he eats like one. This guy’s
idea of exercise is the Stairrnaster, and
his idea of pigging out is eating a hard-
boiled egg. Everyone has a friend who
abhors Taco Bell and is even resistant to
Subway. You can make fun of him all
you want, but he is usually more ripped
than the guy in the Real World who was
on Frat Pad, so just know that while you
call him a rabbit, he’ll be laughing all
the way to his next hookup.

Diamond in the Rough
Freshmen don’t know this yet, but
during the rush process, there is quite a
bit of judging that goes on in the frater-
nities and sororities. The Diamonds in
the Rough are those freshmen who are
at ﬁrst most debated and fought over.
Half of the Greek organization ﬁrmly
believes that if this person is admitted,
the world will most surely collapse and
the social standing of the respective
Greek organization will crumble in the
process. However, from Tear Night on,
these Diamonds in the Rough are the
coolest members of the Greek organiza-
tion. All their qualities that didn’t shine
during rush now come out in full bloom,
and they are respected and adored by
their peers. Every Greek organization
has one of these, and most likely they
each have their respective Enrons (the
members who were liked only for rush
and at no other points in their career),
but the Diamonds in the Rough are the
ones who are remembered and celebrat-
ed. They are the ones who represent the
best defense for Greek life at W&L: the
chance to befriend someone who you
normally would never befriend.

Wheel Friend

When relationships venture outside
the W&L relationship, friends inevita-
bly get dragged into the process. If you
are ‘single in the later years of your W&L
career, hanging out casually usually en-
tails being the odd numbered member of
a group. If you had three good friends
before, then you will inevitably ﬁnd
yourself serving as the seventh wheel to
your friends, who are now respectively
wife’d up. Every time you want to go
out to dinner or watch a movie, you need
to check with your friends ﬁrst to make
sure that their boyfriends or girlfriends
are available to join your group. This
provides pressure on you to get wife’d
up and can delay your plans mightily.

Drunk Alter Egos

After more than a couple of drinks
on a party night, many people at this
school lose their own personalities and
replace them with their drunken alter
egos. Many people have given speciﬁc
names to these alter egos (for example
if your name is Bill, calling your alter
ego Dan), some use a play of words on
their name (for example, if your name is
Autumn, calling your alter ego Winter)
and others simply just spell their names
backwards to describe their alter egos
(e.g., Haram). However, the most com-
mon way to describe the drunken alter
ego is simply to describe him or her as
“Drunk [insert name here].” The alter
ego tends to be a littlelworse at walk-
ing in a straight line and much worse at
making decisions regarding those of the
opposite sex.

Spring Term Fat Chicks/ Spring

Term Alcoholic

This was not an idea proposed by
me, so before you break out the Student-
Faculty Hearing Board, this is a term a
group of senior girls used to describe
themselves‘ at a certain birthday party.
Not looking to be libelous, I’m using
their description of this term as my deﬁ-
nition. See, these girls are free from the
bondage of academia and are celebrat-
ing by consuming either a lot of food or
a lot of booze and sometimes both.

The Spring Term Fat Chicks are
not Powderpuff linemen, but rather are
healthy girls who are venturing to places
like Frank’s for the ﬁrst time, and there-
fore think of themselves as incredibly
fat for trying a cheese—steak for the ﬁrst
time. Considering W&L’s ostensible
lack of an obesity problem, I guess eat-
ing your ﬁrst mozzarella stick in Spring
Term of your Senior Spring in this cul-
ture makes you a Spring Term Fat Chick,
but when I eat the other ﬁve mozzarella
sticks, I somehow am exempt from be-
ing called the Spring Term Fatass.

The Spring Term Alcoholic describes
the senior girl who has all but graduated
and now celebrates by going on a four
week hiatus from sobriety. This celebra-
tion does not make her resemble Nicho-
las Cage in “Leaving Las Vegas,” but
rather produces a socialite who lives by
a few select mantras. 1) “Every day is
either a bad day or an Occasion.” If the
day is a bad day, then you will need to
drink to cheer yourself up, and if the day
is an Occasion (i.e., someone’s birthday,
Osama’s death day, Star Wars Day, etc.),
then you have to drink to celebrate. 2)
“Everything revolves around the next
drink.” Although thinking like this for
longer than Spring Term will get you
into rehab, the Spring Term Alcoholic
does not worry about books or drama
or tests, but instead worries about what
kind of fruitjuice to mix with what kind
of alcohol. 3) “The sun and loss of ap-
petite [from too much drinking] are a
draining duo.” Tanning and drinking
are contact sports that can wipe you out.
Make sure that you eat even when you
are full and wear plenty of sunscreen.
4) “Stairs are HARD.” When you can
think like this, you know you are having
a pretty good Spring Term.

‘ b

an

5

 

  

 

MONDAY, MAY 9,2011

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

opinions

It’s Spring Term; it’s time forjerseys

Columnist Patrick Smith explains the warmer weather fashion choice, choosing the “dankest ” sports jerseys I

By Patrick Smith
c o L U M N I S T

I sit in my disgusting house recuper-
ating the moming after a Red Square
party while watching Armageddon on
TV. What sounds better than that? A
list of dank jerseys I have compiled, per-
haps? I made this list with many things
in mind, such as on-ﬁeld performance
and overall swag.

If you read one of my past articles
titled, “Brocabulary,” you would under-
stand what the word dank means.

The reason I decided to make this list
is because when I’m not spending my
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday classi-
fying the hell out of some plants in Field
Botany, -I’m wearing sweet jerseys and
trying to get sunbumed so I’m not white
as shit. I can’t help it; I’m a struggling
day-walker.

If you want an idea of what I’m go-
ing for before you read this list, I am
currently wearing a Penny Hardaway-
Warriors jersey. Get at my level. I lifted
this one from a friend who left it at my
house. However, I know for a fact that
he doesn’t read my “crappy” articles, so
I’m not worried at all. I’m just an ac-
counting major who can’t write, right?
Classic case of sucks-bro.

Without further crappy “journal-
ism,” here’s a short list of six, dank-ass
jerseys, two each from the major three
sports. Enjoy:

Wade Boggs, New York
Yankees #12:

I’ve been a Yankees fan my entire
life and I know this may seem like a bi-
zarre choice for my favorite team. First
of all, Wade Boggs got most ofhis 3,010
hits with the Red Sox, (ew) but he did
play ﬁve seasons with the Bronx Bomb-
ers and win a championship in ’96 with
them. I

The reason I love the Hall-of-Famer
Wade Boggs so much is because of one
story I read about him.

Back in the day, the Yankees played
a game in LA, (which they won) and
Wade Boggs decided to get a little ag-
gressive. He had a 6-pack of Budwieser
chillin’ in his locker, waiting for him at
the end of the game.

Another teammate saw Wade Boggs
pound all six of those brews before
leaving the locker room and proceed to
pick up a case of beer before the cross-
country ﬂight back to New York. In the
seven hours of downtime between the
end of the game, and Boggs returning
home, he drank 50 beers. -

What Wade did that day was a com-
mendable feat, and proper reason for
him making my list of dank-ass jerseys.

John Rocker, Atlanta Braves
#49

I remember watching John Rocker
close out games back in the day when the
Yankees always used play the Braves in
the World Series (and lose). He would
literally sprint from center ﬁeld to the
pitcher’s mound before he went into
the game. I always used to wish that he
would slide into the mound when he got
there, but he never did.

John Rocker was a player highly
linked to steroid use, which may explain
his visible insanity on the diamond. Not
only was he a lefty, but he did some le-
git things in the major leagues before
his testicles shrank too much due to the
unicorn blood he used to enhance his
performance.

His antics were unparalleled and he
meant a lot to the best game on earth,
therefore, I have no shame in putting
him on my list.

Larry Bird, Indiana State #33
Larry Bird had one of the sweetest
jump shots in all of basketball. I’m not,
and will never, claim to be, a huge bas-
ketball aﬁcionado, but it would take an
idiot to say Larry Bird wasn’t a special
player. He knew how to win ball games.
The reason I use Indiana State in-

Tradition!Tradition!

ColumnistAli Greenberg explores the history that makes our campus unique

By All Greenberg
COLU M N I ST

During my week at home over Spring
Break, I had very few obligations or re-
sponsibilities. My days tended to follow
the schedule of wake up eventually, get
up eventually, ﬁnd food somewhere,
walk the dog, lie back down, ﬁnd more
food, watch TV, sleep.

So besides catching up on “3O Rock”
and “Family Guy” and potentially ﬁnd-
ing a new team

knowledge, and then I read about an
alum that was an absolute gem.

George William Crump, class of
1804, was the United States’ ﬁrst re-
corded streaker. Yes, streaker. He was
caught one night his senior year by Ye
Olde Lex Po running naked through the
streets of Lexington.

And while he was suspended for a

While I never got the opportunity
to experience the 6-week, two-course
term, I do know that the 4-week Spring
Term of today is where it’s at.

Yet, is four weeks really enough? By
the time we actually gq adjusted to the
course content and the professors’ ex-
pectations and grading, we are already
halfway through the course. Sometimes
it seems as pointless as

to root for in the
NBA, I really only
had time in my
busy schedule for
one thing: spend-
ing hours upon
hours on my com-
puter. I actually
had to recharge my
laptop three times
in one day. That’s
obscene.

I read blogs, watched Netflix and
generally wasted a lot of time. During
a moment of intellectual intrigue, I even
looked up our ﬁne institution on Wiki-
pedia. _

While scrolling through the article, I
learned a lot about our school. For in-
stance, did you know that Meriwether
Lewis, as in the Lewis in Lewis & Clark,
was class of 1793?

Or that our ﬁght song, “The Wash-
ington and Lee Swing,” was actually an
incredibly popular tune and has been ad-
opted by dozens of schools as well as re-
corded by just about every famous jazz
musician at the time, including Louis
Armstrong.

And in the spirit of Mock Conven-
tion, another alum, Mr. John W. Davis
(1892, l895L) was the 1924 Candidate

for the Presidency (we predicted cor-V

rectly that yearl). While he inevitably
lost to the incumbent, Coolidge, he still
went on to become a'very successful
lawyer, up until he picked the wrong
side on the whole Brown v. Board de-
bate. Awkward.

Up ‘till this point I was pleasantly
surprised and enlightened by my new

T he fact that Washington & Lee produced the new
worldsﬁrst recorded streaker is just an incredible
testament to the social structures and attitudes of

our illustrious university.

semester, he went on to graduate from
Princeton, UPenn Medical School, be-
come a U.S. Representative, and land
an ambassadorship in Chile. Essentially
making him the entire student body’s
new hero.

The fact that Washington & Lee pro-
duced the New World’s ﬁrst recorded
streaker is just an incredible testament
to the social structures and attitudes of
our illustrious university.

And now that Spring Term is ﬁnally
here, we shouldn’t expect any short-
age of undergrads streaking the Colon-
nade and then hoping to get hooked up
with a sweet job after graduation. Over
two hundred years later, so little has
changed.

We have many traditions at our
school, with one of the greatest being
the Spring Term. Started in 1970 and
born from the hippie and alternative ed-
ucational movements of the generation,
Spring Term was created in order to pro-
vide a unique and enriching academic
environment that gave students the op-
portunity to truly engage themselves in a
speciﬁc course and form better relation-
ships with their professors.

the Pacquiao/Mosley
ﬁght.

But it’s in the social
sense where the time
limit is both a gift and
a curse. We come back
from Spring Break re-
freshed and, well, ready
to party. And yet we are
greeted with only three
weekends. Three!

And two of them are
already gone, slipped away already from
right under us.

However, just as distance makes the
heart grow fonder, our limited time pro-
vides an extremely dense concentration
of events over the shortened term. So
while there are only four weeks, there is
so much room for activities!

I am not calling for a return to the
six-week term. I like things how they
are now and the administration has been
very clear that the switch back would
simply be infeasible.

I am really just writing this as a re-
minder that we are halfway through if
this paper actually comes out on Mon-
day like it is supposed to. So stop wast-
ing time reading the Ring-tum Phi, get
out your lax penny and go enjoy Spring
Term.

Because there is nothing more W&L
than day drinking and band parties, and
we are nothing without our traditions.

fresh rating on rotten tomatoes.

stead of the obvious choice is because
of a friend of mine. He is the biggest
Celtics fan and owns this jersey. It’s
old-school as hell,‘ and the powder blue
looks sweet. I envy his jersey ﬂare.

Shaquille O’Neal, Orlando

Magic #32 ,

The Big Diesel had the rare ability
not only to be good at, basketball, but
also to be hilarious. He’s got 4 champi-
onship rings and a movie that got a 4%
Who
else can say that?

Back when I was a dumb little gin-
ger hiding from the sun, I owned the
Reebok “Shaqnosis” shoes (Google that
ish). I would wear these and pretend to
be good at basketball. Besides his im-
pressive career statistics, he’s the man
and deserves to be on this list without
question.

Deion Sanders, Florida State

#2

”If you look good, you play good, if
you play good, they pay you good!” Too
bad I play Division 3 baseball...

Deion was not only an amazing
football player, but he was also a spec-
tacularly average baseball player. He
was an eccentric personality known as

“prime-time,” and if asked to rank the
ﬁve best comerbacks of all time, he
would respond with l. Deion 2. Deion
3. Deion 4. Deion 5. Deion.

Get his college jersey from Florida
State. The only thing that could make
this jersey cooler is if he went to the U
instead.

‘Nuff said.

Joe Namath, New York Jets
#] 2

I’m not sure what’s cooler, the super ~

bowl ring Namath guaranteed, or the
fur coats he used to wear: deﬁnitely the
ring.

Namath played nine strong seasons
in the NFL and has one notable ring to
show for it. He was a loud mouth and
Brut man; both very cool things. Joe
was a notorious New York party animal
and has one huge superbowl victory to
show for a remarkably sub-par career.

Whatever, this is a sweet jersey and
he was a major bad-ass. Well worth the
purchase.

This is the end of my list, and the end
of my story. Peace.

Me — ‘‘I don’t think this article is go-
ing to be funny”

Joe Gannet ~ “Surprise, surprise.”

Have you made your

SUMMER PLANS?

Visit Career Services for
last minute help with

Résumés
Cover letters
Practice Interviews

Call 540-458-8595 to make an
appointment or come in during
Quick Questions
1:00-4:00 Monday-Friday

Career Services

n.e.ma~ Lunclh~Dixinér ,  4
(Breakfast served all  j * .

, _;Tu-esday-Thursday: 7AM —::9Pl
I V, j Friday and Saturday: 7AM -  .

Sunday: 7AM — 3PM
Closed Mondays

‘ 167 South Main Street.
Lexington, VA I .
Phone: 540.464.9499, 

Fax: 540.464.1226 “

 

 

MONDAY, MAY 9,2011

4 « THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

arts&life

Capitol Steps kicks off Mock Con right

The Hill-based comedy troupe entertains students, faculty, community and provides satirical outlook on politics

By Sage Um
5 TA F F w R l T E R

Last Wednesday night, the satiri-
cal political comedy group The Capitol
Steps performed at Keller Theater as
part of Mock Conventi0n’s Spring Kick-
off.

The Steps did various skits about
Sarah Palin, the events in Egypt,
Obama’s health care efforts, and former
Presidents Bush and Clinton. One mem-

orable speech was at the very end of the
performances where the performer flip-
ﬁopped the ﬁrst and last syllables of all
his words.

Many students, faculty, and commu-
nity members showed up to the perfor-
mance and enjoyed their savvy parodies.

The Steps ﬁrst started as a group of
Senate staffers mocking their employ-

ers at a Christmas patty in 1981. Their
ﬁrst intentions were to stage a Con-
gressional nativity play, but when they
failed to ﬁnd three wise men or a virgin
in Congress, they chose headlines of the
day to parody and make songs for a new
type of satirical humor. And since then,
they have been famous for their unique
political comedy. Most ofthe cast mem-

bers have worked in Congress, for both
Democrats and Republicans.

The Capitol Steps have recorded
dozens of albums and appeared on
various TV shows like “Good Morning
America”. They have also done specials
for public radio (“Politics Takes a Holi-
day") and even performed for ﬁve US
Presidents.

Larry King said, “They’re the best.
There’s no one like them, no one in their
league.”

Thecurrent parody/ song on The Cap-
itol Steps website addresses Osama Bin
Laden’s death and President Obama’s
birth certiﬁcate, comparing the two.

The Capitol Steps was deﬁnitely a
great way to start Mock Convention’s

  

The Capitol Steps performed last Wednesday in the Keler hater of Lenfest, helping kick off

.,n,.-

prised of bipartisan cast members who have worked on the Hill, under both Democrats and Republicans.

Students ﬁsh on the ﬂy

W&L ’s Outing Club journeyed to the Piney River for aﬂy-ﬁshing expedition

ByDane Davis
STAFF WRITER

Members of the Outing Club have been
busy rafting, hiking, and most recently, ﬂy
ﬁshing, as they take advantage of the warm
spring weather. Early last week, James
Dick, Outing Club director, and four Wash-
ington and" Lee students trekked out to the
Piney River to fly ﬁsh on the stocked pond
and two miles of creek that runs through a
100-acre property.

“It was a lot of fun,” said Steele Burrow.
This was his ﬁrst time ﬂy-ﬁshing in the East

   

' vi

and he said it helped him “get a little more
out ofthe countryside.” '

’ According to the guys on the trip, the
biggest ﬁsh caught was about l2 inches, and
everyone hooked at least two ﬁsh. Dick,
however, managed to angle nine ﬁsh, tri-
pling everyone else’s catch. All of the fish
caught during the three-hour excursion were
Brook Trout, and all ﬁsh were released.

It may have helped that the group en- *

countered no one else on the trip except for

The Outing Club venured to the iney River to take part in ﬂ —ﬁshing. Jae Dik, director ofthe club, and four stu-

the two experienced locals who guided them
to the best ﬁshing spots. Burrow described
the landscape as spectacular and said itiwas
a great opportunity to get to know other
W&L students.

The next upcoming OC trip is SCUBA
diving on the New River in West Virginia,
but keep an eye out for paddling, caving,
hiking, and other outdoor trips at the Cain-
pus Recreation blog http://w/z/recreation.
wordpress. com/.

 

dents were pointed to the best ﬁshing spots by experienced ocals — the only other people they met on the trip.

the 2012 6E"k Convention.The comedy troupe  com-

  
     

‘  2 7 an ﬁlm‘
STEELE BURROW/ head photographer

For Sale
15 Acres. Country location
i within city limits of
Lexington, VA. Special M
planning area. Residential
with consideration for
innovative development
proposals, contiguous to
other available tracts. $1 M

wvvw.ZeusRainmaker.com

 

I ' ,
gezée e zeezhwzcmz‘ ,2
PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN TOY CAFE ’
Located at

LEE Illa TRAVEL PLAZA
Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Orderfrom our complete menu
Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5pm—10pm - 
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm—10pm

A Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm

Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 11pm-2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am-11am Q»
Daily Hot Country Bar 12Noon -10pm . }
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 10:30ar_n-10pm l

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 North Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA
540-463-3478

Great food & a great collection of
Antique Pedal‘ Cars & Tin Toys!

 

 

et ur Certified PackingExpertshe'P

you movehome for the summer.  

Whether you are moving across the state
or across the world, we can pack and ship
your stuff. We offer:

Packing services
Shipping services
Moving supplies
Digital printing
Document finishing
Mailbox services
Notary services
And more...

 

 

TheUPSStorei

Monday-Friday 8:00 to 6:00
5 Saturday 9:00 to 5:00
store62 26@theupsstore.com’

Located across from Walmart

in the Lexington Crossing Shopping Center
1223 N Lee Highway

Lexington, VA 24450

540.464.6000 Tel

540.464.4640 Fax

Mail Boxes Etc., Inc. is a UPS® company. The UPS Store® locations are independently owned and operated by franchisees of Mail Boxes Etc., Inc. in the USA and by its

master licensee and its franchisees in,Canada. Services, pricing and hours of operation may vary by location. Copyright © 2011 Mail Boxes Etc., Inc. B3QH46577 04.11

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     

.s-»'<- .
®

 

 

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY,

MAY 9; 2oii

 

sport   ,

Women 3 [ax earns conference title

ondeck

MON Tues WED THURS FRi SAT SUN
Baseball
Men's
Lacrosse
vs NCAA NCAA
Women's Christopher Tourney Tourney
L Newport 2nd Quarter-
acrosse TBA round ﬁnals
I NCAA NCAA NCAA
Mens Tourney Tourney T0Um*"-‘Y
Tennis First Second Third
round round round
’ NCAA NCAA NCAA
Womens Tourney Tourney Tourney
Tennis First Second Third
round round round
Deacon Deacon Swarm’
Track Combined Combined Tgsrte
Events Events Ch a n Ce j
Golf

in the numbers
22

The age of Derrick Rose, whojust became the youngest player
ever to be chosen as the Most Valuable Player for the NBA.
Rose plays for the Chicago Bulls and the 2010-201 1 season.

marked only his second season playing professional ball, and
he is the second Bulls player to win the award, joining the leg-
endary Michael Jordan in the honor. Rose led his team to an

NBA-best 62-20 season record.

The odds that the Kentucky Derby winner Animal Kingdom
started with. W_hile farfrom a record breaking long shot, only
six horses started with longer odds out of the 19-horse ﬁeld.

Animal Kingdom's odds were enough to pay out $43.80 on a $2

bet.

25

Number of innings it took the Chicago White Sox to ﬁnally de-
feat the Milwaukee Brewers, 7-6, on today's date in 1984. The
game clocked in at eight hours, six minutes and spanned two
days — the longest game (in elapsed time) in major—|eague his-

tory.

soapbox

“I told Robby [earlier in the day Saturday],
‘Don’t worry, if we win this race I ’m going
totake care of you. ”

--John Veiazquemhejociteywho rodeAnlmai Kingdom
toviaiioryin Seinrdqrs Kentuckyberby, acknowledging
hisfriend and feiiowjookey RobbyAibarado. Aibarado
wassetin iideAnimei Kingdom lnthe race urriiihefeii off
his mountthewedneedqybefore, brieaidng his noeeend

prompling Animal Kingdom's owner and uaineriio replace
him-deepiiiehie havingbeenciearedtioridebydoctors.

f‘One thing that I can credit since Igot here
is the fans have been great. I’m just happy

to be a part of this organization and happy

that we can move on. I don't want to be a ‘
party—pooper or nothin’, we ’II enjoy tonight,

but tomorrow we’Il move on.”

-0i<iehomaCii,i/ThundercemerKendrici(Peridnesa|dafier
ini<in¢dawnuieDemarNumsis1oo-97an<iwinningtiie
eeriee4-iiiomoveonlnpoeiaeasonpiay.

By Jayna Johns ‘
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse
team completed yet another successful week
by adding to its already impressive win streak
and clinching its l2th conference champion-
ship.

On Wednesday, the top-seeded Gener-
als defeated fourth-seeded Virginia Wesley-
an College 9-6 in the semifinal round of the
ODAC tournament, played in Lexington.

W&L started the game hot, attempting nine
shots in the first 10 minutes while the Marlins.
only managed one. Despite the bombardment
of W&L shots, Virginia Wesleyan found the
net first, taking a 2-0 advantage with just un-
dcr l7 minutes left in the ﬁrst half.

The Generals responded by putting in
three consecutive shots in the next three min-
Lites, taking a 3-2 lead. Senior attacker Wilton
Mcgargel made in the ﬁrst goal, andjunior at-
tacker‘ Alli Shearin followed 30 seconds later
with a goal of her own. Senior attacker Kate
Spearc kept up the pressure by scoring less
than two minutes later.

Unlike most of W&L’s previous confer-
ence opponents, VWC kept the match close,
answering with another goal to tie the game
with just over i I minutes left in the half.

Senior midfielders Kate Donnelly and
Emmy Mathews were able to each put in an-
other goal before the end of the half, allowing
W&L to go into the break with a 5-3 lead.

The Generals opened the second half in a
similar fashion to how they opened the game,
except this time the shots went in. The team
scored four unanswered goals to take a 9-3
lead, its largest ofthe game, with 12 and a half
minutes left in the game.

Mathews accounted for two of the addi-
tional goals. and Speare and Megargel each
also added another goal. Mathews scored
first, putting in an assist from Spcare, and then
Speare made in her goal. Mathews followed
and Megargel ﬁnished the run with her goal.
The last three goals came in a span ofjust over
two minutes.

The team managed to hold offa late surge
by the Marlins, who put in three goals in the
final l0 minutes, and were able to secure the
victory and move on to the tournament ﬁnals.

Mathews led the team with three goals
while Spearc was right behind with two goals
and an assist. Megargel also added two goals.
Senior Katharine Farrar spent the entire game
in the net and recorded l0 saves for the day.

On Sunday, the Generals faced third-sced-

College in the

. the game.

ed Roanoke

final round,
winning 2l-l3
in Lexington to
secure the con-
ference title.
Similarly to
Wednesday’s
game against
VWC, Roanoke
jumped out to a
2-0 lead. Both
scores came
within the ﬁrst
five minutes of

The Gener-
als responded ‘~ .
with vigor, putting in ﬁve straight goals in
only four and a half minutes and taking a 5-2
lead with just under 18 minutes remaining in
the ﬁrst half. Shearin started the scoring run
after forcing a turnover and taking the ball di-
rectly to the net. Donnelly put one in less than
two minutes later, and Shearin added another
57 seconds after Donnelly. This gave the team
its first lead of the contest with just over 19
minutes left in the half, a lead that it would not
give up for the rest of the game.

Mathews and junior attacker Maddie McK-
aig ﬁnished the run by each scoring free posi-
tion goals.

The teams ﬁnished out the first half alter-
nating goals. Roanoke put in five goals before
the break, and the Generals put in six to go into
the halfwith an ll-7 lead. Three ofthose goals
came from Mathews, while Shearin put in two
and Donnelly added one.

Just a minute and a half into the second pe-
riod, Mathews put in her ﬁfth goal ofthe day
to give W&L a.live-score lead. The Maroons
stayed in the game, putting in two shots'back-
to-back and bringing the score to within three
with 27 minutes left in the game.

The Generals responded with two goals of

their own, one each by Mathews and McKaig.
Roanoke snuck in one, but W&L then took
off on a six-goal streak, taking a 20-10 lead
with just under eight minutes remaining in the
contest. First-year midﬁelder Meade Brews-
ter. Ma_thcws and Shearing each put in a goal,
while Mcgargel contributed the other three.
The Maroons‘ managed to score three more
times but were unable to overcome W&L’s

     

',

COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

\ n

impressive lead, giving the Generals a 21-13
victory. Mathews accounted for the ﬁnal W&L
goal.

Mathews bested her previous career record
of six scores, which she set the week before
against Randolph-Macon, by putting in eight
goals. Shearin tied her career-high of ﬁve
goals and Megargel ﬁnished the day with four
scores. Farrar again spent the entire game in
the net and recorded ﬁve saves.

Senior Kathy Brown, Mathews, Shearin
and ﬁrst-year Alex Van Horn were all named
to the All-Tournament team for their perfor-
mances throughout the ODAC tournament.

Winning the ODAC title gave W&L an au-
tomatic bid to the NCAA Division III Wom-
en’s Lacrosse Tournament. The women will
play Christopher Newport in Lexington on
Wednesday for the ﬁrst round of the national
tournament. The time is yet to be determined.

The team played Christopher Newport last
year as part of its regular season, winning the
contest 16-7, but lost in the ﬁrst round of the
NCAA tournament 13-12 to Elizabethtown.

The Generals will go into the tournament
with a 14-4 overall record, including an unde-
feated conference record.

Generals shine at meet

Track & ﬁeld athletes compete at Liberty and pull out impressive performances

Bylayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and wom-
en’s track & ﬁeld teams competed last Thurs-
day afternoon in the Liberty Twilight Meet,
both trying to earn bids to the NCAA Divi-
sion Ill Championships. Those who competed
faced teams from across the South in the event,
including several NCAA Division I members.

For the men, sophomore Dylan Mills ﬁn-
ished third overall in thejavelin throw but was
ﬁrst among competing Division ill athletes
with a toss of 58.60 meters. His toss before
this meet was 60.99 meters.

l

First-year Kevin Sullivan also competed in
thejavelin throw, coming in right behind Mills
at ﬁfth overall and second among Division III
throwers with a 53.20 meter toss.

The women also had two strong perfor-
mances in the meet. Sophomore Lauren Schul-
tz ran in the steeplechase, recording a person-
al-best time of 1 1:32.08. Her time placed her
third overall and ﬁrst in Division Ill runners.

First-year runner Annelise Madison ran in
the 1500 meter race, finishing fourth overall
and ﬁrst among Division III competitors after

A!

ti; .

posting a time of4:48.73.

Competing teams in the meet included Lib-
erty University (Div. I-AA), Coastal Carolina
University (Div. i-AA), Radford University
(Div. I-AA) and Lynchburg College (Div. III).

Both W&L teams will return to action on
Tuesday. They will travel to Wake Forest Uni-
versity to compete in the all-day Deacon Com-
bined Events.

Washington and Lee sophomore Dylan Mills throws thejavelin while competing in the Liberty Twilight Meet: Mills was
third in the event, but ﬁrst among other Div. lll athletes.

 

it

1‘.

 

