‘D:

        

Arc #
37% :13‘;
955").
v- ll‘?
gym). :2 :3
c v Q.-

 

__.l.

cakes oDAcs     

“E . ssiponrs/pageie  T

Down and Derby 2 A

‘Ladies, where is the sportsmanship — or
sportsWOMANship? Columnist Noel Price

A takes 3 look OPINIONS/page2E

MONDAY, MAY 2, 2011

  WASHINGTON no LEE UNIVERSi”l'Y

TI-IE RING-T   M PHI.  

AI‘! IKE SIUIIEHIS AID FIIHJTHE SIUIIEITS 5lIICE1l!7voLuMEcxiv,NuMBER17

Convention
kicks off

Former Bush advisor Karl
. Rove keynotes weekend of
events

By Leigh Dannhauser
STAFF WRlTER

The Washington and Lee Mock Convention, con-
sidered one of the most accurate in the United States,
is ﬁnally about to begin. V

This Wednesday marks the start of the kickoff to
the quadrennial event. Kickoff events continue each
evening through Saturday night.

Karl Rove, the event’s keynote speaker, served as
President George W. Bush’s deputy chief of staff. He
is currently a Fox News contributor and a Wall Street
Journal columnist.

Sophomore Juhi Amin is one of many looking for-

~ ward to the kickoff as a whole, but especially Karl
Rove.

“I’m looking forward to the fantastic speakers and
like most of the W&L student body, can’t wait to see
Karl Rove speak” Amin said. She’s additionally ex-
cited because Rove will be speaking on her birthday.

“The band party and BBQ will also be a great op-
portunity for the W&L community to interact and en-
joy spring term,” Amin said.

A lot of work went into bringing Rove to Lexing-
ton, along with the planning of the entire event as a
whole. Members of the steering committee have been
working on kick-off for months. They’ll continue
planning until the actual Mock Convention happens
in February 2012. _

A countdown to the Convention, along with more
information about the convention itself, can be found
at www. mockconventioncom.

Mock C-Ion

5  WEDNESDAY  , _ » 2
 6:00 PM  open reception forpthe
guests of The Capitol‘ Steps. (see! below) ‘

 7:00PM *M.ock}fConi'_afndl Contact
. Committee Present The Capitol Steps (A

comedy troupe -that satirizes politics) in
Keller ‘Theater (Lenfest) *Tickets may

jbepurch-ased online athttp://www.wlu.
tfedu/x19050.xml . V T _r . .

3.‘,_.THURSDAY_  .
T .1; 7.f0_0PM .Pr'e‘sidential' Issues ‘Panel
‘ in iWilson'A'uditorium (Lenfest)- doors
Pan" lists: ;Mike Allen", Kellyanne
may, Rhodes _Coo_k,‘Larry. Sabato . ‘

 Moderator: William Conneiy

ary Matalin, Republican.
liticalconsultant and CNN A Contribu-
_' M g‘ in Wilson - Auditoriums (Lcnfest)-
ivdoorspopen at-‘5:30]p.m. ,7  '

ram? Con’ Davidson"‘P,ark
jd flfejatiuring The Dickens‘ (Da-
jdson Park) L}. ' i E » ” .

 . , _'M*‘;Sprin‘gr [Kickoff Keynote
«r_.: pe‘ai_ker:“‘Karl Rove j(Front Lawn, in
i‘.frontv,iofr.}Lee“Chape1 H j .

 *Book signing to follow on the lawn

 V6.-i0oi>M_A’  All-American: »;BB;Q T and

i{Band Party featuring-A-Maina_’s Lovexan

i_,C1ass‘Ac,t (Red square).  T T’

E .Featuring a Co,lonnad'e«cake_ 
[Ace of Cakes!  5 * it

Party in the USA  

Osama bin Laden killed by American forces, President Obama announces

By Eleanor Kennedy
N E w s E D 1 T 0 R «

Washington and Lee students cel-
ebrated with ﬁreworks, triumphant
runs through campus with American
ﬂags, and uniﬁed cheers of “USA!
USA! USA!” as word spread late
Sunday night of the death of Osama
bin Laden.

Bin Laden, the leader of the ji-
hadist al-Quaeda and the mastermind
behind the Sept. ll attacks, has been
a major target of the U.S. War on Ter-
ror for a decade.

Nine years, seven months, and
20 days after that attack, and exact-
ly eight years after’President Bush
declared “mission accomplished,”
President Obama told the nation that
a group of American soldiers had
killed bin Laden in a ﬁreﬁght.

Around 9:45 p.m. Sunday, the
White House announced Obama
would give a public statement. Al-
though the topic was initially un-
known, major news networks and
Twitter feeds reported that Bin Laden
was dead and the U.S. had his body.

By the time Obama’s speech be-
ganjust before i 1:40 p.m., W&L stu-
dents had been celebrating for over
an hour.

Fire-

who was raised on a military base in
Germany and is enrolled in ROTC at
VMI could hardly ﬁnd words to ex-
press her emotion.

“What I wouldn’t give to be back
on the military base with all my
friends and their dads who have been
hunting [bin Laden],” Lowry said.

Celebrations raged across wall at
the Virginia Military Institute, but
cadets declined to comment.

Although Macado’s had already
closed by the time celebrations be-
gan, its employees celebrated on the
bar’s porch.

Macado’s employee Marshall Ol-
szewski said everyone could partake
in the celebration with equal excite-
ment.

“We’ve got a white guy, an Asian
and a Mexican, and they’re all happy
that bin Laden is dead,” Olszewski
said.

While celebrations raged on the
streets, the online community lit up.
Facebook status after Facebook sta-
tus and tweet after tweet announced
the death of bin Laden and included
patriotic messages and song lyrics.

crackers
exploded
in Red
Square,
Davidson
Park and
the fresh-
men quad.
Groups ran
through campus shouting, cheering
and singing patriotic songs. The cel-
ebrations got so rowdy that the po-
lice were called on the Red Square
residents, who were asked to quiet
down to avoid a noise violation.
W&L ﬁrst-year Christina Lowry,

“What I wouldn ’t give to be back on the mili-
tary base with all my friends and their dads
who have been hunting [bin Laden. ]

CHRISTINA LOWRY, ﬁrst—year

Obama’s speech was streamed
live from the White House, as well
as on the Washington Post, the New
York Times and several other news
organizations’ websites.

In his speech, Obama said he
made the capture and/or killing of

    

bin Laden a “top
priority” when he

took ofﬁce two
years ago. _
Intelligence of-

ﬁcials briefed him
on a strong lead in
‘late August which
they continued
to investigate for
the past several
months, Obama
said.

Obama deter-
mined late last

_ week that there was
enough intelligence
to pursue the lead
and he authorized
a “targeted opera-
tion” to ﬁnd and
kill bin Laden.

Earlier in the
day on Sunday a
group ofAmericans
found Obama hiding in a compound
deep inside Pakistan. A ﬁreﬁght oc-
curred, but no Americans were hurt,
according to Obama.

Bin Laden was killed and the
Americans took possession of his
body.

Although Obama called bin
Laden’s death “the most signiﬁcant
achievement to date” in the War on
Terror, he emphasized that this con-
ﬁict is by no means over.

“We must, and will, remain vigi-
lant at home and abroad,” Obama
said.

Obama emphasized the impor-
tance of Pakistan’s assistance with
the operation, calling the event a
“good and historic day” for both
America and Pakistan. He added that
the War on Terror is not and has never
been a war on Islam. Bin Laden was

I COPYRIGHT 2011 / AP PHOTO

a mass murderer of many groups,
including Muslims, Pakistanis and
Americans, Obama said.

“His death should be welcomed
by all who believe in peace and hu-
man dignity,” Obama said.

' He also took the opportunity to
remember the victims of the Septem-
ber llth attacks and those who have
fought and died in the years since
then.

“On nights like this one,” Obama
said, “we can say to those families
who have lost loved ones to _al-Quae-
da’s terror, ‘Justice has been done.’”

 River rises

C  Weeks of storms in southwestern

Virginia have pushed water levels
in the Maury River up. As spring
term begins and students partake
in traditional acitvities like
visiting Goshen and tubing, the
high water levels make for record
tubing times and fast-paced
rapids along the way.

MARY HUERSTER / staff photographer

Tonas tea through southern states

Alabama natives at Washington and Lee feel the eﬂects of massive tornadoes

By Eleanor Kennedy
NEWS EDITOR

Massive tornados and. wind-
storrns ripped through the seven
southeastern states last week, killing
at least 342 people, according to the
Associated Press. Although the dam-
age in Virginia was relatively low,
Washington and Lee students from
hard-hit Alabama have heard plen-
ty of stories of destruction in their
hometowns.

F irst-year Allison Swagler is
from Birmingham, Alabama. Swa-
gler’ said her parents found papers
from Tuscaloosa in their yard from a

ﬁling cabinet that made the 60 mile
journey between cities in the air.

“My parents also found a huge
chunk of a building with a pole
through it,” Swagler said. “It was
scary.”

As scary as the damage was,
Swageler’s family was luckier than
many Alabama residents. The latest
death toll from the storms, according
to the AP, is 250 in Alabama, 35 in
Mississippi, 34 in Tennessee, 15 in
Georgia, ﬁve in Virginia, and one in
Kentucky.

Tuscaloosa Mayor Walt Maddox
told the AP that he expects more fa-
talities. Four hundred and thirty-four
people are still unaccounted for in
his city.

The storms also wreaked havoc
on homes and businesses, destroying
5,700 in Tuscaloosa, 2,600 in Mis-
sissippi and 500 here in Virginia.

Although Lexington and Rock-
bridge County avoided direct con-
tact with any of the tornados, the
National Weather Service did issue
a tornado warning for both Rock-

bridge County and Lexington at 1:35
a.m. on Thursday.

According to the weather service,
Halifax County, Farmville, Gooch-
land and western Hanover counties
were all hit with tornadoes.

 

  

IJi\iE‘-IERSITY LIBRARY

msiit-ls"i0N & LEE UNIVERSITY ‘

LEXINGTON, VA 24450
MAY 0 3 am

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MAY 2,2011

  opinions

 

Bu||itt’s

By Stockton Bullitt
OPINIONS EDITOR

Usually I don’t like to write stories
only about my life. I tried that in high
school, and now I am no longer allowed
back for reunions. Instead, I prefer to
broadly generalize something that re-
lates to my life. This writing process
allows me to utilize an ability I have:
I can say something that seems impor-
tant without really ever saying anything.
And let’s be honest, even when I do say
something important, the people I’m
talking about call it libelous and post my’
article in a computer lab with “Don’t re-
spond to the idiot” written next to it.

However, I had a pretty terrible
weekend, and I think that you the reader
can learn from the two important les-
sons that I learned from my weekend.
Because of these two valuable lessons,
I will rehash my weekend. Warning: if
you do not feeling like me talking about
myself more than usual, just re-read the
other articles in this opinion section,
they are much more quality. Anyway, the
two lessons you should learn from this
story are l) I am a dumbass, and there-
fore, you should not‘ emulate anything I
do, and 2) southern Alabama is one step
above Zimbabwe when it comes to reli-
ability and infrastructure.

This story starts during Spring Break,
when I participated in the annual “W&L
goes to the beach!” migration to Gulf
Shores, Alabama. Never having wit-
nessed that many W&L students outside
of Lexington, I was amused by the week
of events that ensued. By far the most
entertaining was seeing more forced
evictions than gentriﬁcation. By the end
of the week, I saw more homeless people
than the underside of the George Wash-
ington Bridge. But that’s irrelevant.

Towards the end of my stay in Gulf
Shores, my car’s engine decided not to
turn over. Now, at this point I was in no
mood to deal with a dead_ car. I was com-
ing back from the local grocery store,
where the crazy owner would refuse
to sell you alcohol (even at double the
price) if there was anyone below 21 in
a ﬁve mile radius. So, I decided that I
would deal with the problem of a dead
car the next morning.

Waking up with a hangover did not
help my analytical thinking, so instead‘
of calling my parents and asking them
for their AAA card _ number, which
would’ve made »more sense (but I’m

bu|I**itt weekend, in full  

Opinions editor Stockton Bullitt tells a story explaining his utter incompetence and why the South lost the Civil War

an idiot), I borrowed my friend’s card.
Since I am from Connecticut and my
certain friend is from California, I had
to put on my best California accent, so
I mispronounced words and talked like I
had a big nose. The AAA representative
told me that I had an expired card, and I
could only get towed from a service sta-
tion in a three mile radius. Since I was
in Gulf Shores (remember: Zimbabwe
2.0), there was no station remotely close
to where I was, so I ﬁbbed my location,
but only because I didn’t have to sign
any honor code. My ploy worked and
the tow truck came an hour later.

Instead of choosing to bring my
Honda to a Honda dealership 40 minutes
away (remember: I’m dumb), I trusted
the tow truck’s company: Gulf Shores
Auto Service. I met the owner of the re-
pair shop, a 300 pound man in overalls,
and since I am more naive thenHNewt’s
next girlfriend, I instantly trusted him. I
started to describe to him the problem
when my ﬁb came back to haunt me.
The tow truck driver, the owner’s broth-
er, started charging California me for the
towing at the same time as the Connecti-
cut me was giving the owner informa-
tion. Luckily, all I got was a raised eye-
brow following a hurried excuse.

After checking out the car for a day,
the owner called me back the next day to
tell me that my car’s engine was in ma-
jor trouble. The timing chain had been
messed up which disrupted a turning
belt which bent a couple of valves. In
other words, I had no idea what he was
talking about. All I knew.was that my
car was more abused than the San An-
tonio Spurs’ interior defense. The owner
told me that he would need to order parts
to get the car ﬁxed. I gave him the okay
as I left in another car to return home to
W&L. '

The next Monday, I got a call from
the secretary asking if they should order
the parts. I once again gave her the go-
ahead. She told me that there was $2000
in damages, which meant that I spent the
next two hours on the phones with each
of my parents pretending to be interest-
ed in their lives before quickly dropping
my little piece of news at the end of the
conversation. The secretary also told
me that once the parts were in, the re-
pair would be easy. She told me that ev-

"erything would be done by Wednesday,

THE

MANAGING
NEWS

EDITOR
EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS'ED|TOR
COPY EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR

HEAD PHOTOGRAPHER
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS
BUSINESS MANAGER

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

libel and

lkunuumtulhusn-r

RING-TUM PHI.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly, report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@w|u.edu,“but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THERING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
STOCKTON BULLITT
PAIGE GANCE
JAYNA JOHNS

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
ALI GREENBERG
SALLY PLATT

NOEL PRICE

ADRIAN WILLIAMSON

JULIANNA SATTERLY
STEELE BURROW
BECKY GUYNN
MARY HUVERSTER
MATT GOSSETT
KELLY LANE

JOE MORAVEC
ZABRIAWN SMITH
EVAN SHARBER
DAVE WILSON

obscenity.

Thursday latest. I told her that I would
come down that Saturday to pick up my
car and drive it back, and she said that
would be just ﬁne.

And then Spring Term came. I be-
came the latest victim of the adminis-
tration telling professors to make their
classes as hard as possible. Furthermore,
I had other things to worry about: girls
were playing football, Mock Con was

assigning actual work, and the Grizzlies -

were actually beating the Spurs. Re-
member, I am a dumbass, so of course, I
assumed that if there was a problem, the
Gulf Shores Auto Service would tell me.
I booked the plane tickets to Pensacola
without Traveler’s Insurance (Who
needs it?), and somehow I convinced my
girlfriend to join me on a ﬂight down to
beautiful Pensacola and an enticing 14
hour drive back to Lexington. In other
words, I am going to have to spend a lot
more money on her birthday present.

I was going to get a ride to the air-
port on Friday, and then I realized that I
scheduled my ﬂight at the end of Derby
Days, so no one was going to be able to
drive me to the airport if LexPo had any-
thing to say about it. As a result, we took
my girlfriend’s car, and I incurred a nice
parking fee to go along with hotel and
ﬂight plans. The ﬂights were pretty nice,
and the Homewood Suites in Pensacola
was a fantastic hotel, fantastic enough
in fact to mask the fact that Pensacola
is populated only by military personnel
and old people.

As punishment for bringing her on
this trip, my girlfriend made me spend
the next morning watching The Royal
Wedding on TLC no less. About as ex-
citing as a Tim Pawlenty speech,'I ﬁg-
ured that watching someone else’s wed-
ding would be the worst part of my day.
And then I called the Gulf Shores Auto
Service center for the ﬁrst time since the
secretary told me that everything would
be ﬁne by the previous Wednesday. Af-
ter multiple rings, a surly man picks up.
He tells me that the repair shop is closed
on Saturdays, and that he is only doing
service calls. This is news to me. How-
ever, I tell him that I’m only picking up
a car, and he says that I can come by and
he’ll do me a favor and let me get my
car.

Then came the problem of getting to
Gulf Shores. See, Pensacola is over an

hour away from Gulf Shores, and since
Gulf Shores isn’t even in the good part
of Alabama that gets hit by tornadoes,
there is no damn reasonable form of
transport to the city besides a $100 cab
ride. I call a cab and am lucky enough to
have a cabby that literally talks the en-
tire hour plus long drive. He explains to
me about the good old days of hitchhik-
ing, his divorce, his recurring visits to
the doctor over his painful leg and many
other fantastically interesting stories.
As I pass the border of ‘F lorida and Ala-
bama, there is about ﬁfteen minutes of
tralﬁc because, according to the cabby,
there is a yearly party on this weekend
when tens of thousands of people gather
to toss ﬁsh across the border. Apparently,
this is an excuse for a party in this part
of the country. God, I miss civilization.

I ﬁnally arrive at the Gulf Shores
Auto Service station to ﬁnd absolutely
nobody there. I call the guy making
service calls. No answer. I look around-
for a bit and ﬁnd a guy working in the
shop. He tells me that he can’t help me
at all because “he has no money.” Yep, I
was questioning why I was a Democrat
at that moment. I called the guy making
service calls again, and he picked up
only to tell me that he wouldn’t be there
for two hours. Now, I was stuck in a
scene from “Deliverance” for two more
hours. I ﬁnd the repairman who has no
money, point to my car and beg him to
just let me pay him and drive home. He
looks at my car in the lot and says, “Oh
that car. Oh, we haven’t even started
working on that one yet.”

Sorry, what? My heart starts beating
a little faster, and I ask for the owner’s
personal cell phone. I get it and give him
a little call. He tells me that they are still
missing a part because it hasn’t come
in yet, and this prevents them from do-
ing anything to the engine. He says that
once the part comes in the ﬁx should be
easy and asks if I could stick around un-
til Monday to get my car. Since that was
about as likely as Rihanna getting to-
gether with Chris Brown, I told him that
this was the only time I could pick up my
car myself. He said that he had no idea
that I was coming down this weekend.
This is where lessons come in handy for
the story. I was a dumbass for not being
more on top of this earlier and‘ talking to
the owner myself, and the South lost the

Civil War because secretaries don’t have
the wherewithal to either make correct
statements or communicate with their
bosses.

After talking to my girlfriend and my
parents, I ﬁnally turned down the options
of hiring another tow truck to bring my
car to another dealership and/or buying
a machine gun. I ﬁnallyjsettled down by
watching Rachel McAdams’ new movie
“Moming Glory.” Yeah, it’s about as
girly as they come, but I’ll be damned if
I can stay furious while watching Rachel
McAdams cutely struggle to handle her
demanding job and love life at the same
time. I went back to Pensacola with my
girlfriend, booked a 6 am ﬂight, and
drowned my sorrows at Chili’s.

All in all,'having to deal with incom-
petence in both the Deep South and your
own stupidity is pretty frustrating. But,
in the end of the day, that’s why we’re
in college. We are all old enough to have
actual consequences to our failures and
the failures of those around us, but we
still have a support structure around us
protecting us from the worst of these
consequences. I was an idiot for not
cussing out the repair shop earlier, but
I also was able to get a ﬂight home and
eat at a Chili’s that night, which was a
hidden gem in its own right. Still, we are
old enough that we have no excuses for
not learning from ours and others’ mis-
takes, so I hope that you can learn from
my stupidity and Gulf Shores’ lack ofre-
liability and not waste a weekend ﬂying
down to the middle of nowhere only to
not get your car back. Rachel McAdams
won’t always be there to comfort you.

Well, my weekend was pretty bad
until Osama bin Laden died. Let’s go
America!

What makes the good girls go bad?

Feminism and sportsmanship can exist in sorority competition during
Spring Term is Derby Days

By Noel Price
COLUMNIST

Ah, Derby_Days... In a mere week,
girls are pitted against each other to raise
money for the Make-a-Wish foundation
while also showing their fun-loving, do-
mestic, and ferocious natures.

Are these qualities at all contradic-
tory? Of course not! It’s all in good
competition.

But in the midst of the competition, a
few negatives arise which include con-
cussions, broken appendages, derogato-
ry slurs, and ﬁve days of discomfort rid-
ing on Traveller with girls in opposing
sororities. The sidelines of a powderpuff
football game are about the furthest cry
from the inside of a sorority house dur-
ing recruitment week (if you exclude
the inane chanting

how cute and fun we are and how we
currently spend an unbelievable amount
of time as current members displaying
the same to the “ﬁrst-years”. All that lost
in the midst of a hot day, in a dirty tank
top, looking at your former hallmates
and classmates alike with disdain.

In all ofthis lies one ofthe great dou-
ble standards of life as a female. Some
have called Derby Days a crime against
feminism, as we are encouraged to cook
and run around on a ﬁeld to be examined
and laughed at by men.

However, I argue it is a great week
in the life of a ﬁrst-year Greek girl and
a sort of rite of passage as well. It can,
and should, be a time to bond with your

walk away broadcasting their superior-
ity, and the losers walk away with bitter
mumbles about the winners.

Perhaps this word is antiquated, but I
feel a need to work on being much more
ladylike. If we are as internally divided
as we look during Derby Days, how will
unite for anything?

Complaints can be heard in every
part of the world by women trying to be
taken seriously by their male counter-
parts. Women don’t earn as much, they
are judged more on their appearances,
and just because of history, they have
something to prove.

What does aggressively beating an-
other sorority in football prove? Ath-

leticism, maybe, but

that occurs in both
places). But these are
the same exact girls,
underclassmen and
upperclassmen. Why
all the bad blood?
This is the one
time of the year that
girls get to be in
each other’s faces
about the fact that

they made the right

choice. However, playﬁil rivalries have
lost their place behind Pole 3. Somehow,
we have a tendency to turn savage upon
application of paint to faces and sorority
letters to chests.

I am as guilty as the next girl—in .the
heat of the moment, I forget the golden
rule immediately. I ﬁnd myself spewing
hateful things that I didn’t even mean
from the abyss of my subconscious. I
left the ﬁeld on Thursday pretty frustrat-
ed with myself and the things that had
been said by myself and others in the
name of our sororities. All I could think
about was the way we tirelessly worked
as “ﬁrst-years” to show the older girls

The double standard exists not in female partici-
pation in Derby Days, but rather in the manner in

which we have come to participate.

pledge class and waltz around in your
letters like they were branded into your
skin (but of course, they’re not. That’s
hazing and disgusting and‘ we’re not
cows).

The double standardlexists not in fe- —

male participation in Derby Days, but
rather in the manner in which we have
come to participate. Boys and men at
W&L (yes, two distinct categories ex-
ist) are called by our beloved Robert
E. Lee to be gentlemen in every part of
their lives. If they played out their fra-
ternity rivalries on a ﬁeld, I believe both
teams would walk away in good spirits.
When girls play football, the winners

aggressiveness could
be laughed at just as
hard as cowardice.
Neither is ladylike (or
whatever you deem
the female equivalent
of “gentlemanly” to
be). I believe Derby
Days can be a week
of sportsmanship and
camaraderie, and its
competition can be
fair. We must not fall back on the expec-
tation that only men must be gentle, but
as we are on this campus and not going
anywhere anytime soon, women should
be, too.

 

 

MONDAY, MAY 2,2011

3 - THE R|NG~TUM PHI-

 

  |et:er*:otheedi:or

Ladies_and Gentlemen:

I am glad my friend Ted Delaney expressed eloquently his concern about the

‘-Speaking Tradition in the March 14 PHI. It has spawned some good conversations

which I hope will continue during Spring Term and beyond.
Some days when I walk around campus, my experience is like Professor Del-
aney’s. The Speaking Tradition seems to be on life support at best, and I am con-

, coined. The next day, more people are speaking, or at least nodding. It seems to

come and go.

Does it really matter? Should we be concerned? Why not realize that things
change and move on? Is it a relic of days gone by? People we speak to (or not) will
notice, but beyond that why should speaking matter to the current W&L generation?
Is it ok to be silent strangers in this small community? V

q Permit me to offer some observations based on my long affiliation with W&
as a student, law student, EC president, ac_tive alumnus, former trustee, and current
member of the administration. To be sure, simply saying hello or waving should not

’-be conﬂated into the singular measure of the strength of this place, or as the most

important barometer of what we do here. It is not the only indicator of civility, or a
Substitute for our genuine feelings and how we treat one another, but I respectfully
submit that the Speaking Tradition is notjust a relic of yesteryear. .

A wise and respected senior professor, who came to W&L years ago from a very
different geographic and cultural setting, once told me how he grew to revere our

» practice of acknowledging each other. This simple act means much more.to him

than saluting the past or just saying hello by rote. It is a valuable ﬁrst step in how
we treat each other, and it supports the core virtue of civility, about which we care
deeply. ‘

Especially when we do it without regard to age, job, appearance or title, it is a

J foundation stone for a broader culture of respect. Speaking says: ‘I acknowledge

you.’ Regardless of who you are, you matter, and I will not just ignore you and walk
on'by. Does this resonate? If so, perhaps it is easier to focus less on speaking as a
tradition and more on simply showing respect for the person right in front of you.

Late president John Elrod was fond of saying that the university community is all
about conversations in and out of the classrooms. The living room in Elrod Com-
mons honors that premise. In what kind of climate will we seek to converse about
important or challenging issues? Is it probable that we will fare better if we are ac-
customed to being civil and promoting a culture of respect? I believe so.

Looking externally, many families and visitors notice us speaking to each other
and to them. Speaking helps create a welcoming atmosphere which is appealing to
promising high school students. It is quite impressive and they say so, as a family
told me ten minutes before I began drafting this letter. Three separate families cited
it when I talked with them on Admitted Students Day. A good friend’s daughter fell
for W&L because a professor saw her walking around, said hello, and engaged her
about academic life at W&L. These stories abound. «

People interviewing for jobs, parents who have entrusted their most valuable as-
set to us, and alumni friends and donors who support W&L and help make it special
also embrace the Speaking Tradition. Exhibit A is the story of Doremus Gym, made
possible by a gift from two strangers to W&L, who were powerfully inﬂuenced by
the simple kindness shown them by a student when they visited our campus.

Alumni of other schools attend our Special Programs campus , symposia ‘and
travel with W&L alumni. Our solicitous attitude impresses and connects them to

' us. Similarly, I travel to various alumni gatherings across the country. Two things

happen pretty regularly. Alumni ask about the Speaking Tradition because they
cherish it. Non-W&L guests will frequently comment favorably on the warmth of
our culture, an attribute which develops during our time together on campus.

A few years ago, I conducted an informal experiment by visiting a peer college.
It had acquired an unfortunate descriptive label, so I wanted to see for myself. In
my 45 minutes walking around the small campus on a pretty day, one person spoke
to me because  asked for directions. No one else spoke or acknowledged me. The
students trudged along with grim faces and heads down; they weren’t talking to each
other either! The campus was without life or excitement, hence its characterization
as ‘a place where joy goes to die.’ Surely we don’t want that phrase to be applied to

. W&L. That is one reason why this fall we will welcome each member of the new

class of 2015 with a shirt which says simply: “Speak.”

These observations lead’ to some simple opinions. We don’t need to be silly or
robotic. No one can speak to 23 people in a row while changing classes. You do
not need to contort your head if you are on a cell,’ but often it is easy to wave or
say hello. It’s a simple and meaningful thing. We can do more of it, I hope we will,
W&L will be better for it, and thousands of alumni and friends who cherish our
Speaking Tradition will be glad to see it on display.

Beau Dudley, ’74, ’79 Law
Executive Director of Alumni Affairs
April 27, 2011

Win $100 Gift Cards!

by completing short surveys

First-years, Sophomores, Juniors
Complete a survey about your
summer experience.

Seniors
Tell us about your
post-graduation plans.

Survey links can be found on your
W&L JobLink homepage and on the
W&L Career Services web site.

These surveys will be live for the
four weeks of Spring term.
Drawings will be held each Friday
to choose a winner.

The earlier you complete the survey,
the more chances you have to win!

Career Services

It's notT\/, its gold...

The wonderful shows featured on HBO will give you some much
needed rest from Spring Term

By All Greenberg
co LU M N I sr

I was going to talk about Spring
Term this week, and then I forgot to
write an article.

So after an eventful weekend
of “late nights” and getting “ship-
wrecked-face”, I found myself reliv-
ing my life as a freshman late Saturday
night and watching HBO reruns in the
dorms. This is because I may or may
not have eaten at

show was golden, like silence (take
that Ari Gold). It was as dry as the Sa-
hara and looked like your 6-year old
niece drew it, but it just worked, unlike
when Tim, our protagonist, tried to pay
Debbie the Hooker in meatloaf.

Or Summer Heights High: A “moc-
kumentary” mini-series about a high
school in Australia where it is totally

ed 360 degrees during a raunchy tryst
with a vampire, or see possessed towns
people eating a delicious gumbo made
from human heart. No seriously, this is
obscene stuﬂ° we are dealing with.

Yet, there is much to be praised
about True Blood. The society that is
developed is absolutely fascinating,
ripe with political and social com-

mentary about mis-

D-Hall six times
last week.

Despite the
ever-rising tu-
ition, our school
does not provide
HBO on campus,
so it had been
awhile since I
had watched my
shows. It should .
really be included with 1 room and
board, because without debate, HBO
has the best programming available on
your television set, and I refuse to en-
tertain any claims otherwise.

Past hits are numerous and iconic,
and current programs consistently
bring the awards and the ratings, with
millions ofpeople tuning in every Sun-
day for new episodes.

Even their ﬂops are fantastic when.

compared to cable, and many of the
shows on HBO never even go past one
season, not because they suck but be-
cause one season was enough.

From news shows like Real Time
with Bill Maher to award winning
miniseries like John Adams or Mildred
Pierce, HBO puts in work and produc-
es incredible programs that can appeal
to just about any audience.

I would be ecstatic if you have ever
heard of Life & Times of Tim, but I
won’t be surprised if you haven’t. This

It just worked... unlike when Tim, our protagonist,

tried to pay Debbie the Hooker in meatloaf

acceptable for you to take an entire epi-
sode to ﬁgure out whether it is real or
fake. While not actually an HBO origi-
nal, HBO was genius enough to bring it
to the states a few years ago.

Hilarity ensues when one actor
plays the schools overzealous and
ﬂamingly ﬂamboyant Drama teacher, a
13 year-old Samoan troublemaker and
the Queen Bee private-public school
exchange student Ja’mie. Just Google
“Mr. G” and thank me later.

On the other side of the spectrum
we have True Blood. Which while it
does have its comedic moments, main-
ly thanks to the well-meaning Jason
Stackhouse, it is most deﬁnitely not a
comedy. If you didn’t follow this show
from the very first episode, I beg you
not to try picking it up later. You will
be shocked, disturbed, dazed and con-
fused.

If you tune in at the wrong moment,
you may see a woman’s head be rotat-

understood facets of

humanity.
And then the
Vampire King of

Mississippi rips out
a newscaster’s spine
on live TV.

I could wax poetic
about Curb Your En-
thusiasm, Entourage,
The Wire, Boardwalk
Empire, The Sopranos, Rome, or Big
Love, but I cannot even come close to
doing justice to these programs.

So in conclusion; Sloane is hot,
we get it. Kenny Powers is more of a
man than you will ever be. That guy
on Hung gives it away for free. SATC
(editor’s note: for males, she is refer-
ring to the apparently popular program,
Sex and the City) will never get old, al-
though the women will. And, of course,
it’s not TV, its HBO.

What, exactly, is”lhe Boondocks”?

Sally Platt rationalizes the jokes behind the controversial cartoon

By Sally Platt
COLUMNIST

I had never heard of “The Boon-
docks” until a few weeks ago. I’m not
sure how I managed to miss out for so
long on such a sweet show, but there
you have it. I found out about the car-
toon when someone asked me to ﬁll
out a survey for a psych class about
race relations in The Boondocks.

I thought she was referring to The
Boondock Saints so I went ahead
and filled out the survey. I got a little
stumped when I got to the question
“How do you think the cartoon is por-
traying black people?” because there
are no black people in The Boondock
Saints, a movie about thelrish maﬁa.
But I went ahead and answered the
question anyway. Ofcourse I later re-
alized my mistake and decided I bet-
ter check out what the real show was
about. _

Wow. The Boondocks is just very
“wow” at ﬁrst. I mean if we’re talking
politically incorrect, the show has it
all. Stereotypes, cuss words, all those
things were not allowed to talk about
in normal society, all of these appear
in the show. It was actually sort of
refreshing. Mostly though it was just
horrifying.

I watched the ﬁrst episode by myself
and didn’t catch any of the humor. As
I sat back after it ended, I couldn’t be-
lieve that this was something allowed
to be aired on TV. Then I watched it
again with people and when they were

laughing at all the worst (best?) parts I
reassessed and started to see some of
the humor that has made this show one
of the most talked about cartoons since
it came out in 2005.

Really, the show is more contested
than talked about. Its three seasons

[have created quite a buzz. Rever-

end Al Sharpton said in response to
one episode, “Cartoon Network must
apologize and also commit to pulling

‘episodes that desecrate black historic

ﬁgures.” This particular episode had
satirized Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.
The producer, Aaron McGruder, said
that this was done in a spirit of humor
and meant rather to satirize incor-
rect responses to the great civil rights
leader than criticize the man himself.
He said Sharpton had missed the joke.

That is the hard thing about The
Boondocks: it is so easy to miss the
joke. Everything is offensive and so
everything must be funny (and really
is). Occasionally, however, it can make
you feel kind of guilty to be laughing
at the jokes. Isn’t the show rather en-
forcing these stereotypes of African-
American culture?

As the producers tackle subjects
like Barack Obama’s presidency, BET,
gangsta rap, civil rights, R. Kelly, graf-
ﬁti art and beyond, are they taking it
too far? Perhaps, but what is important
is that the show is making people talk.

Contentious comedy can often have

this effect. For this reason, comedy has
for a long time been used to inﬂuence
politics. Through its veil of laughter,
comedy can say things that can’t be
said out in the open. After all, how
can people get mad when it’s all only
a joke?

The Boondocks may be a joke, but
what it is accomplishing is not. It is
making people face issues that other--
wise might be swept under the table.
Not just issues of African American
culture but problems in America as a
whole. The show is bringing these out
into the open where they can be dis-
cussed. And isn’t realizing that there is
a problem the ﬁrst step in solving it?

So while The Boondocks may anger
many people it serves an important so-
cial function. But more than that, the
show just makes us laugh. And couldn’t
we all do with a few more chuckles,
giggles and ho-ho’s? So here’s to hop-
ing there will be a Season 4. Oh and
while I’m here I’d like to apologize to
the person who’s psych survey I took.
Hope my response didn’t mess up your
results too much!

 

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MAY 2,2011

 

/

,.r

Dressed up in their preppiest sundresses and ﬂoppiest hats, Washington and Lee students bask in the spring day. Foxﬁelds, an annual horse race in Charlottesville, has become a
popular destination for members ofthe Greek community from UVA and other nearby schools.

Sundresses and bowties and more: students travel an hour away to the “biggest frat party ever” in Charlottesville

ByDaneDavis
STAFF WRITER

Most college students would be ap-
palled at even the idea of waking up be-
fore 8 a.m. on a Saturday. But it’s spring
term, so Washington and Lee students
are willing to invest a day to socialize
and experience an unique event. This
weekend, instead of spending the Satur-
day in the great LexVegas, some W&L
students decided to wake up much ear-
lier than usual to drive to Charlottesville

Rusted Root

Managing editor reviews the concert, gives

thumbs up to GAB

By Diandra Spicak
MANAGING EDITOR

Last Thursday, the Generals Activi-
ties Board hosted yet another musical
act ~ and this time for free. Headlining
the night, the Pittsburgh band Rusted
Root played to a sparsely ﬁlled Pavilion,
but that didn’t seem to stop the nineties

< band of “Send Me on my Way” fame

(think Matilda and Ice Age).

Unfortunately, I spent too much time
at Derby Days to make it in time to see
The New Mastersounds, but, let me tell
you, Rusted Root did not disappoint. I,
along with many in the audience (just
an assumption here), only knew of the
uplifting song about growing up. How-
ever, “Send Me on my Way” was not the
best ofthe set-list at all that evening.

Channeling a folk and bluesy sound,
with a fusion ofAfrican, Native Ameri-
can and Latin American percussive
inﬂuences, Rusted Root had nearly
everyone dancing, jumping and sway-
ing to their music. Using a multitude
of percussion instruments, including
bongos and (surprise!) a washboard,
the band kept the momentum and the
mood high. The show, overall, was high
energy — the audience could not stop
moving, from swing dancing to various
rave-inspired movements (someone had
what looked like, to me, light up yo-yos
and was spinning them behind the audi-
ence). ‘

While the audience called for Rusted
Root to “send them on their way,” the
highlights of the night included some
of their newer material. “Dance in the

to watch the F oxﬁeld horse races.
Students dedicated enough to this
adventure, woke up Saturday morning
and quickly changed into exceptionally
preppy attire consisting of sundresses,
Sunday-afternoon hats, button-down
shirts, and maybe a bowtie. The Lee stu-
dents drove for about an hour to this fes-
tival ioutside of Charlottesville. These
students found themselves in the middle

Middle,” a bluegrass jam song, featur-
ing the washboard, particularly stood
out for me — in fact, it was the single
from their newest album, Stereo Rodeo! .

And, those in attendance were able
to hear three unreleased songs. Chatting
with the band after the show, I found out
these few songs have yet to be recorded.
The members were affable and conge-
nial, speaking to everyone that came up
to the merch table (I even scored a photo
with two of my friends). Walking out, I
looked at my srat sister and we were un-
able to hold back our smiles (mind you,
we, even though attending Derby Days
merely hours before, were not intoxicat-
ed). The ride back was littered with ex-
clamations of “that was the best concert
l’ve ever been to on campus!”

“That was so much more fun than
Wale!”

“And no one left after the one song
everyone knew!”

So, a round of applause for Rusted
Root and for GAB’s hosting them. De-
spite a small audience turnout, I would
call this latest concert 21 success. The
biggest plus? It was free A but, after the
music I heard, I would’ve gladly paid
$10.

The band kept the energy of the
crowd up by playing fast~paced
music — with interesting instru-
ments (like the washboard on the
right).

of a circular track watching horses and
jockeys gallop around on an attractive
spring day.

University of Virginia students have
turned these horse races into a Greek af-
ﬁliated social event by setting up many
large tents with refreshments and food.
The few W&L students who did attend
the event had the opportunity to social-
ize with students from other universities.

Leaving the Lexington bubble to
go to what has been referred to as the
“biggest frat party ever” by Katie Jar-
rell via twitter, made the students of our
university feel at home. After watching
the races with the well dressed crowd,
the students had to make their trek back
to Lex. And, in order to leave the grass
ﬁeld, students had to get in a long line of

traffic leading to the picturesque high-

performs a Paon

way.

In short, the Foxﬁeld races provide
a nice, yet familiar, diversion to the ev-
eryday Lexington life. New friends are
made, and the spring weather is enjoyed
- all a short drive away from W&L.

BECKY GUYNN / staff photographer

ii STEELE BURROW/ head photographer

arts&|ife  

Foxfeldsz W&LS day at the races ,

 

   

($4 NEW YORK UNIVERSITY A_,

 
  

Greek Specialties
8: American Cuisine
6 srenvrpir.‘  

Breal<Iast~» Lunch-v Dinner
(Breakfast sewed all day!)

      
 
     

velupment

Tuesday-Thursday: 7AM — 9PM
Friday and Saturday: 7AM - 10PM

Sunday: 7AM — 3PM
Closed Mondays

      
  

 é' Entrepreneurial

  Realistate  

Strategic i 

       
 

Lunch and Dinner Specials!
Carry Out Available 5
Go Greek at Niko’s!H

      
 

   
   

 
 

  
 

 
 

167 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 540.464.9499
Fax: 540.464.1226

Look for menu at www.nikosgrill-cafe.com

      
   
    

NYU
Institute of Real Estate

 
 
 

‘z§'wé¢'¢ 2eaz....;....:

 
  

 _ PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN Tov CAFE
'1 V I i Located at
A , M8. in Real Estate Development “E “I “Am PLAZA
. ®
New 15-month ful|—time optign ‘ V. 5 Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’
. Afaculty drawn from the industry's most accomplished professionals leads a comprehensive . - Order from our complete menu
».y  * _ curriculum covering the growth areas of real estate development today: sustainable design and e 0" 101'" uSf0r 0"? 01'0"" ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!
‘ land use, public-private partnerships, global development, and environmental regulations. Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5pm_10pm
The program offers full- and part-time options, and can be completed in as little as 15 months. i 5 Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-1,0pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
' _ _ ~ Friday & Saturday Late NightBreakfast Bar 11pm-2am
    5, 6'8  ‘ Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6arn_11an']
_ Visit our website for more information and to RSVP. f V Dally Hot Country Bar 12Noon -10pm
I  A Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 10:30am—10pm
 — i -   so s.n u.edu 359 r   r
‘  L P y /   :  A ' Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!
V I ~ .    ' SCHOOL OF CONTINUWG AND PROFESSlONAL STUDIES '‘
‘ M€i‘l\'ui"ni:ii‘rérSMlsail.1'ﬁmai,i:i_lc1u’m.r   .   ,  , .- ,  .  L s... ; ,  e ‘ I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 North Lcc Hwy., Lexington, VA
540-463-3478
Great food & a great collection of

Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

Let our Certified Packing Experts help
you move home for the summer.

  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

Whether you are moving across the state
or across the world, we can pack and ship
your stuff. We offer:

Packing services
Shipping services
Moving supplies
Digital printing
Document finishing
SI Mailbox services
Notary services
And more...

    
 

Th UPS Store

 

, ‘B y L
Located across from Walmart Monday-Friday 8:00 to 6:00
in the Lexington Crossing Shopping Center Saturday 9:00 to 5:00
1 22 3 N Lee Highway r store62 26@theupsstore.com  
Lexington, VA 24450 as    

9 540.464.6000 Tel

4 r 540.464.4640 Fax
Mail Boxes Etc., Inc. is a UPS® company. The UPS Store® locations are independently owned and operated by franchisees of Mail Boxes Etc., Inc. in the USA and by its
master licensee and its franchisees in Canada. Services, pricing and hours of operation may vary by location. Copyright  2011 Mail Boxes Etc., Inc. B3QH46577 04.11

 

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MAY 2,2011

 

sport

ondeck

MON TuEs WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
Baseball
Men's
Lacrosse
VS
Women's Virginia ODAC
L Wesleyan Finals
acrosse 3:30pm
at
Men's N.C.

. Wesleyan
Tennis mopm
Women's
Tennis

L"?‘?”>’ CNU c assic 81
Track Twmght Combine d Events
1:00pm
Riding IHSA National Zhampiorships

MT
in the numbers

14

Total number ofwashington and Lee tennis players, both men
and women, selected to the ODAC al|—conference teams. Sev-
en women were given ﬁrst team honors, while six men were
selected to the ﬁrst team and one was an honorable mention

honoree.

109

The age ofViolet Smith, a Michigan woman who threw out the
ceremonial ﬁrst pitch on Thursday for the Great Lakes Loons,
the Low Class A afﬁliate of the Los Angeles Dodgers. Smith was

celebrating her birthday that day.

18-6

The average score for the W&L women's lacrosse team in con-
ference play this season. While one game was close, a 7-6 win
over Lynchburg, most of their matches were won by 10 points
or more, with the largest margin of victory, 21 points, coming

against three different opponents.

27

Los Ange|es’s Andre Ethier currently holds a hitting streak of

this many games, the longest streak this season. He continued
his streak on Sunday against the San Diego Padres despite his
teams’ 7-0 loss that day, and is only ﬁve games away from set-

ting a new franchise record. The major league record, set by

Joe DiMaggio, is a little more out of reach at 56 straight games.

soapbox

“Has there ever been a red—headed
quarterback in the NFL who’s really done
well? It sounds idiotic, but is there any way
that could be a factor?”

--Dlaunalriaﬂiommmoflcllquaruarbaclmndyballnn.
wlIohaaradl1alr,anNFLcoacl1,whowaaleftnamalaaa
oonaldarshlspouanualdmwbaolc.

“I don't like to give Philadelphia fans too
much credit, but they go»: this one right...
lt’s a proud moment to stand out there

and you've got 45—50,000 chanting [U—S—A,
U-S-A]. That was pretty special."

-NowYorkMal31hlnl baseman Davldwrlﬁitsald, following
hla1nam’s 2-ivlclnryovartha Phlladalphla Phllllaa on
smdqv.Nowsol'Oaama Bln Ladonbdaalhspraadtluouai
lhaslmds durlmtha nlmh-lnnlng oftha 14-lnnlnggama,
raaulllnaln a unlnadchantbraaldngoutacmasthe
Phlladalphlastndlum.

ODAC Champions

Both W&L tennis teams record wins over Hampden-Sydney to win conference title

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s tennis
teams followed a nearly iden-
tical path last weekend as they
both claimed a 5-0 victory over
Hampden—Sydney College in
Lexington on Saturday, earn-
ing the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference title.

This year marks the 30th
conference title W&L men
have won and their second con-
secutive title; the conference
has been recognizing a cham-
pion for only 35 years.

Similarly, the women have‘

now claimed 10 consecutive
ODAC titles, making this their
21st title in the 26 years that
W&L women have been com-
peting.

On Saturday, the team won
all three of their doubles match-
es. Juniors Jonathan Gaffney

and Mac Davis paired up at No.
1 doubles to win 8-4, while ju-

nior Brian Roberts and sopho-

more Hayden White combined
at No. 2 to also win with a score
of 8-4.

At the No. 3 position, ju-
niors Jeremy Becht and Mi-
chael Freeman teamed together
to win 8-2. '

For singles play, Becht,
playing at the No. 2 position,
defeated his opponent 6-1, 6-2,
and Roberts won his match

‘6-2, 6-2 while playing at the

No. 6 position. The rest of the
singles matches were called off
because W&L had already se-
cured victory by winning the
ﬁrst ﬁve matches.

'The win gives the men a
l5-3 overall record on their
season. » '

The men will receive an au-

tomatic bid into the NCAA Di-
vision III Tournament because
of their conference title. The
national tournament begins on
May 13, but the team will play
again on May 7 when they go
to 12th-ranked North Carolina
Wesleyan to end their regular
season. That match will begin
at 1:00 pm.

The eighth—ranked women,
who held the top seed in the
ODAC tournament, won in
similar fashion.

Juniors Trelsie Sadler and
Lauren Lukas won 8-2 play-
ing at the No. 1 doubles spot,
and fellow juniors Ellen Yeat-
man and Jen Snyder took their
match 8-3 at the No. 2 spot.

Junior Ann Morris teamed
with senior Catherine Reed
at the No. 3 team to win their
match 8-4.

In singles play, Sadler and
Reed each brought in a 6-0, 6-0
victory in their matches while
playing at the No. 4 spot and
the No. 6 spot, respectively.
The rest of the matches were
called off.

The women now have 18-6
overall record for their season.

Like the men, the women
have earned an automatic bid to
the NCAA Tournament which
starts on May 13. Unlike the
men, the victory over Hamp-
den-Sydney marked the end
of their regular season, so the
team will return to play at the
national tournament.

Lax defeats and destroys

W&L women Continue conference domination as they take down their ﬁnal opponents

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s wom-
en’s lacrosse team ﬁnished con-
ference play this week in the
same fashion it had been play-
ing all seasonz complete domi-
nation.

The No. 15 Generals defeat-
ed Randolph—Macon College
last Saturday 18-8, and then
destroyed Randolph College on
Thursday with a score of 22-1
to notch a perfect 8-0 confer-
ence record. The team now has
an 11-4 overall record for the
season.

Senior Emmy Mathews led
the team in scoring against
Randolph-Macon, making six
goals and recording a new ca-
reer high. Mathews scored her
ﬁrst goal of the day just 17 sec-
onds after play had begun.

The women jumped out to
a 6-0 lead before R—MC got on
the board, aided by two more
goals from Mathews, two by
senior Wilton Megargel and a
score by junior Alli Shearin.

' ‘The Yellow Jackets man-
aged to put in two goals con-
secutively to get within four
points, but this was the clos-
est they would get for the resf

of the game. The Generals an-
swered with four more goals,
with two coming from Megar-
gel, and one from Mathews and
junior Maddie McKaig.

« R—MC managed one more
goal in the ﬁrst half, while the
Generals put in another four to
go into the break leading 14-3.

The Generals gave up two
consecutive goals to open the
second half, but responded by
netting three consecutive shots
and gaining a 12-point advan-
tage, their largest of the game.
First-years Alex Van Horn and
Meade Brewster each contrib-
uted one of the shots, and se-
nior Kate Donnelly added the
third.

The Yellow Jackets got
hot in the ﬁnal minutes of the
game, putting in three straight
shots, but there was no way for
them to overcome their deﬁcit.
The game marked the seventh
straight W&L victory over

Randolph-Macon.

Megargel ﬁnished the game
with a total of four goals, Van
Horn and Shearin each made
two, and McKaig, ‘Donnelly,
Brewster, and ﬁrst-year Mere-

W&L senior Emmyivlathews made eight goals throughout the week, includinlg
con, contributing to an 18-8 victory over R-MC and a 22-1 victory. over Rando ph College.

dith Lavin all added one. McK-
aig led the team with three as-
sists, while Van Horn had two
and Mathews had one.

Senior keeper Alex Flam-
mia played every minute of the
match in the net and recorded
10 saves for the day.

The following Thursday,
Randolph College never stood
much of a chance as 14 differ-
ent W&L players scored at least
one goal

Mathews again scored ﬁrst
for the Generals, netting an
assist from sophomore Eliza-
beth Bucklee. The WildCats,
who were unable to record a
conference victory this season,
responded with a goal of their
own a few minutes later to tie
the match.

Randolph’s quest to make
the game competitive was shut
down, however, as the Gener-
als proceeded to put in 13 more
goals before the end of the half.

The second half was more of
the same, but this time without
the WildCat goal. W&L net-
ted eight goals to ﬁnish with a
21-point victory. Amazingly,
this ties with two other games

for the team’s largest margin
of victory on the season, as
the women recorded 21-0 wins
over Hollins and Sweet Briar.
Senior Katharine Farrar and
sophomore Alex Hamill took
turns in the net, each recording
one save. Randolph’s lone goal
managed to get by Farrar.
McKaig led the team in
points, putting in four goals.

Bucklee, Mathews, Lavin,

sophomore Ashley Barnes, and
ﬁrst-year, Katie Hagen each
made two; Brewster, Donnelly,
Shearin, senior Kate Speare,
and ﬁrst—years Kerstin Hjelm,
Kelsey Cotter, Margaret Klein
and Greta Witter all contributed
one.

Bucklee led with three as-
sists while Brewster and Don-
nelly had two. Van, Horn, Klein,

.Mathews, Megargel and Shea-

rin each also had an assist. '
The Generals will play again
on Wednesday in Lexington as
they face Virginia Wesleyan in
the ﬁrst round of the" ODAC
championships.

 
 
  
 
 
 
   

PHOTO COURTESY GENERALSSPORTSCOM

a career—high six against Randolph-Ma-

 

