Arch
37%. 7'55

 

  

. .

Women beat Wasps in stinger A
Gennies basketball defeats Emory ,& Henry,
78 - 61. Senior Allie Long’ puts up personal

best of 22 points. 2 I

siponrs / page 8

 ASINGN AN LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2011

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXIV, NUMBER 11

First book
for Darznik

W&L English professor
celebrates book release

By Paige Gance
smrr warren

    

 . E
PHOTO COURTESY OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

The English department’s own Jasmin Darznik
celebrated the launch of her first book, “The Good
Daughter,” last Thursday with a reading for Wash-
ington and Lee faculty and students.

The‘ reading was the first on her book tour, which
includes 17 stops this month alone. The memoir will
be published in 12 countries. -

Darznik was born and spent the ﬁrst three years
of her life in Tehran, Iran, but left during the 1979
revolution. She settled in California with her Iranian
mother and German father.

Her mother’s life in Iran remained largely a mys-
tery to Darznik until one day when she discovered a
photograph that began a journey. “The Good Daugh-
ter” is a vital part of this journey, but perhaps not
the end.

“A photograph hidden, forgotten, and now
found,” read Darznik from her novel. She discovered
the photo by accident when visiting her mother. In it
a 13-year-old girl wore a beautiful gown, make-up,
and a wedding veil. This girl was her mother.

Darznik said that at ﬁrst her mother was angry
and would not speak of the photo. But in the next few
months, she started to receive cassettes that told the
story of her mother’s past life in Iran.

“it’s not a conversation we could have had‘ face-
to-face,” said Darznik, who explained the culture of
secrecy regarding family matters in Iran. She said
that most of her mother’s friends in America would
probably hear about her past marriage for the ﬁrst
time in the memoir. '

The second excerpt Darznik read described her
mother’s wedding day. Some of the words, she said,
were taken directly from her mother’s cassettes.

Lili, her mother’s name in the novel, was picked
by a man 15 years older than she to be his bride. The
event was a mixture of celebration on the part of her
family, but confusion and fear for Lili. She had her
ﬁrst child, a daughter, at 14. When she divorced, a
rare occurrence in l950’s Iran, she had to give up
the child.

“We were a world of two, my mother and I, until
I started turning into an American girl. That’s when
she began telling me about The Good Daughter.It be-
came a taunt, a warning, an omen,” reads the synop-
sis on the back cover. Until she discovered the photo
in her early 20’s, Darznik did not know that the other
daughter actually existed. _

In her memories of Iran, it is always a summer
afternoon for Darznik and she remembers a girl who
used to come to her grandmother’s hair salon. At the
time she did not know that this girl, Sara, was her
sister. .

She said she has not seen her sister since she was
a child, but they have been corresponding. Meeting
her again might be a matter for another memoir, Dar-
znik said.

But as of now, her next book will center on a poet
in l950’s Tehran and will be more autobiographical
than her ﬁrst novel.

Darznik teaches English and creative writing at

' W&L. She received her PhD from Princeton and
I1»? been published in the New York Times, Wash-
ington Post, Los Angeles Times, and San Francisco
Chronicle.

By Kelsy Mccraw
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s EC of-
ﬁcially recognized the Community
for Financial Freedom as a student
organization in its weekly meeting
last Tuesday.

CF F Co-Executive Director Kate
Donnelly (’l 1) and Treasurer Cindy
Rivas (’ 14) presented the EC with a
breakdown of their new non-proﬁt
organization that plans on providing
personal ﬁnancial advice to the Lex-
ington community.

In an email, Vice President Bill
Larson explained why the EC be-
lieved the organization deserves of-
ficial recognition.

“C FF provides students an oppor-
tunity to use the ﬁnancial skills they
develop at W&L to help low-income
members of our community. The EC
supports students using their talents
to help those who are less fortunate,”
he said. ,

Donnelly said that “pay-day
lending” entraps many low-income
members of the local community in a
vicious cycle. Businesses with man-
tras like “Check Into Cash” provide
paycheck advances at astronomical
interest rates.

Those who use these businesses to
get quick cash to pay their bills can-
not afford the higher interest rates as-
sociated with these services. Rates of
18 percent fall at the low end of the
lending spectrum; some businesses
have been known to charge over 300
percent.

According to Donnelly, citizens
will then continue to borrow from
the businesses to pay back their ever-
increasing debt. She said that such
practices can crush personal credit

' scores, making it hard to rent apart-
ments, buy cars or get hired.

“It damages a lot oftheir potential

 
  

  

ek whil

the Gen
. h ,,

x§_.

1

and capability to improve,” she said.

The CFF hopes to step in and help
correct the community’s personal ﬁ-
nancial problems by creating a coun-
seling group that will provide one-
on-one. advice, seminars and other
types of ‘ support. Local ﬁnancial

ing, providing‘ an outlet for students
to apply the knowledge _and skills
they learn on campus.

Unlike Student Consulting,
however, the CFF will be ﬁled as
a 50l(c)3, a state-recognized non-
proﬁt organization.

\

“The CFF’s commitment will give people a real

chance of success and make a diﬂerence in the

community. ”

DAVID emsr, President and CEO, Cornerstone Bank

agencies, like ComerStone Bank and
Wells Fargo, have already begun to
offer themselves as resources to the
group as they get started.

President and Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer of ComerStone Bank David
Grist said that the CFF will provide
an opportunity to help debtors stop
borrowing money that is more ex-
pensive than it’s worth. I

“The CFF’s commitment will
give people a real chance of success
and make a difference in the commu-
nity,” he said.

The organization is well on its
way to achieving its ﬁrst goal after
receiving $1287.30 from the EC’s
winter budget allocations. Donnelly
and Rivas estimate that the group
will need around $2000 to get start-
ed. Now, the group must look into
receiving the proper training and
certiﬁcation to become active in the
community. _

Once it does, the organization will
operate similarly to Student Consult-

  

 

I-'

This ﬁling will be important for
the future of the group as it plans
to eventually become a lending in-
stitution. Unlike other lending busi-
nesses, it will provide loans at lower
interest rates and issue the interest
rates into savings bonds to further
promote their customers’ ﬁnancial
freedoms.

In the EC meeting, Donnelly es-
timated that the CFF would need
around $37,400 to start a lending
business. She said they are currently
researching state and national grants
to ﬁnance the endeavor.

CFF Co-Executive Director Allie
Long (’1l) expressed interest in en-
couraging other universities in simi-
lar communities to do the same.

“There’s an opportunity to make
this a model for other universities,”
she said.

The organization began as a
collaboration of the efforts of two
separate independent studies. The
ﬁrst, by Donnelly and Katie Harris

 

,4‘-..._.____‘ _{ . /_

class.

EC approves finance group

Non-proﬁt organization will provide advice to Lexington community

(’ 10), was entitled “Rockbridge Area
‘Credit Study 2010: A broad assess-
ment of ﬁnancial issues facing low-
income individuals in Rockbridge
County and recommendations for
new policies and practices.” Two
Virginia Military Institute cadets,
Tyler Brown and TD Hoover, under
the guidance of W&L Professor of
Economics Harlan R. Beckley, are
currently working on the second in-
dependent study. They are attempting
to quantify the extent of the problem
in the area.

Beckley said that the involve-
ment of both universities will only
strengthen the community’s view
of the group and is one of the CFF’s
main objectives.

“This is a rare opportunity where
the two universities are collaborating
onajoint effort,” he said.

The organization’s constitution
explains under their goals and ob-
jectives that they hope to “promote
positive community-student and
cross-campus involvement.”

Donnelly said the group has al-
ready made contact with other local
non-proﬁts to help advertise and pro-
mote their services to the communi-
ty. She says that Habitat for Human-
ity has been a key member in their
efforts.

“By using those resources in the
community, we will be able to reach
out to more people,” she said.

The CFF is currently recruiting
new members on an as-needed basis.
Anyone interested should contact
Donnelly.

“lt’s all in the beginning stages,
but it’s very exciting,” she said.

Walking in a winter W&L

Snow blanketed Washington and Lee Wednesday afternoon, forcing the university to shut down at 2:30
p.m. Drivers struggled with slick, icy roads throughout the city and county. Although W&L resumed class
on Thursday, local schools remained closed. Lexington students enjoyed snow days for the rest of the

A erals braved slick roads and ic sidewalks to make it to

 
     

   

PHOTO courmasv or VERA HIGGS

 

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   

   
   

' ‘ ' ITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

FEB 0 I 2011

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

opinions

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2011

Falling out of love with the Lilly

Lilly Pulitzer is time in the spotlight has come and gone, so Ali Greenberg gives the clothing line a proper obituary

By All Greenberg
C 0 L U M N I S T

Before I dive into this undoubtedly controver-
sial topic, I must put forth my preemptive apology
to all my friends, sisters, classmates and any other
female on this campus.

What you are about to read may upset you; it
may hurt your feelings or cause you to hurt my
feelings, and for that I am sorry. It’s just that this
needs to be said.

Lilly Pulitzer used to be sold at Stein Mart.
Have you ever heard of Stein Mart? Exactly.

This brand was once inventive, then tacky, then

‘ defunct, and now wildly popular yet still. . .tacky.

I respect Lilly Pulitzer, the woman, who took
an idea (make a dress to hide the stains incurred
by selling juice in Palm Beach) and made it into
an empire.

It used to be, and arguably still is, the deﬁnitive
brand of Palm Beach, lending it some legitimacy.

But let’s think about that for a second and con-
sider who actually lives in Palm Beach. Exactly.

I’m not saying Lilly is necessarily ugly, al-
though some of those print—makers have got to be
fans of Hunter S. Thompson.

I’m just saying that the brand is kind of boring.

Not in the sense that the dresses aren’t bright or
fun, but they simply arejust too predictable.

Not convinced? Go into Lee Chapel during Ori-
entation Week. It looks like .Ioseph’s Technicolor
Dream Coat inthere.

What I do ﬁnd interesting though, is that some-
how no two girls are ever wearing the same dress at

you looked Christmas weekend? I haven’t forgot-
ten. I haven’t given up hope.

So here are some alternatives:

1. Buy a white Lilly dress. Generally better fab-
ric and construction-especially the eyelet, with the
added beneﬁt of not having to worry about getting
sick of the ﬂamboyant monkeys on your behind

the same (‘cause hon-
“"‘e'“’5 Not convinced? Go into Lee Chapel during Orienta- 65”” We get
like they . enough of
all ha“? tion Week. It looks like Joseph is Technicolor Dream 91056 0“ the
some ' Pumptown
unde- Coal in there, ‘ dance floor).
tectable . 2. Buy a
I-Ill)’ Fa‘   Lilly agendaf »
dar pre— coaster/mug/

venting them from ever matching.

Every girl that walks by during Spring Term
looks like an Easter Basket, which is great and ab-
solutely adorable, but only when it’s Easter, and
you are prepubescent.

These dresses are overpriced and they underper-
form, and I know we can do better than this. l’ve
seen us do better than this. Remember how cute

etc. PRECIOUS! Photo frames are like the natural
habitat of neon tigers. Like squirrels to sweaters.
(That last part was an inside joke.)

3. For those who absolutely must wear Lilly

‘ loud and proud, here is an idea. Buy a pair of box-

ers in your favorite print and have them cut into
your sorority letters. Look how creative and origi-
nal you have suddenly become!

I have a friend who owns no less than 16 Lil-
ly Pulitzer dresses, and let me tell you, she rocks
them. They look great, totally her style and very
ﬂattering.

But she buys Lilly with tact, and it doesn’t hurt
that she used to work at a Lilly store.

The key with Lilly is wearing the dress and not
letting it wear you. Those prints can be untamed,
and if you don’t have the moxie to pull them off,
you end up looking like you drank the Kool-Aid. . ..
and then threw it back up onto your dress.

So for those of you ladies who have yet to put
me on their Billy Madison “People to Kill” list,
remember what Coco Chanel said about the next
time you open your closet, “Look for the woman in
the dress. If there is no woman, there is no dress.”

The beneﬁts of joining ROTC

By Michael Bender
8 TA F F W R IT E R

Need money for tuition, books, or, just pizza and
video games? Army ROTC provides opportunities
for excellent ﬁnancial aid and beneﬁts.

In return for a dedication to serving their coun-
try, Cadets become eligible for scholarships and
other forms of ﬁnancial aid on top of receiving ba-
sic stipends and allowances. Washington and Lee
students have the opportunity to participate in the
AROTC program if signed up prior to the comple-
tion of their sophomore year.

AROTC Cadets can apply for 2, 3, or 4 year
scholarships which cover full tuition or room and

board in the case that tuition is already covered by
some other form of ﬁnancial aid. Eligibility re-
quires four years active and four years reserve duty
along with a short application process. Although
no scholarship is guaranteed, the at-

money for attending during their summers.

The Simultaneous Membership Program (SMP)
is another great opportunity for Cadets to earn extra
money and receive further training. SMP Cadets

' Alumnus Michael Bender reports on both the ﬁnancial and personal gains from joining the Army ROTC program

for tuition alone at W&L, the ﬁnancial beneﬁts
offered to ROTC Cadets provide a great deal of
breathing room to students and families paying for
college. I
Now, for many students, con-

tributes consistent with students ac-
cepted to W&L qualify most as great
candidates.

Regardless of whether Cadets
receive scholarship beneﬁts or not,
AROTC provides them with monthly
stipends and other allowances to cover

common student"

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
HEAD PHOTOGRAPHER
STAFF CARTOONIST

»———%— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY 4 ~——— —-—

TI-IE RINGIPUM PHI.

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
sTocKToN BULLITT
HOLLY SUTHERS
JAYNA JOHNS

EMILY CRAWFORD
SAMUEL GILLERAN
FOWLER MARTENS
KATHERINE ROBERTS
IULIANNA SATTERLY
MICHAEL BENDER’
cALLIE cLEMoNs
WILLIAM CROSBY
MIKE DECEMBRINO
PAIGE GANCE

ALI GREENBERG o
KELSY MccRAw
STEPHEN PECK

MARY MORGAN RADCLIFF
PATRICK SMITH

KATY STEWART
ALEXANDRA FRAZIER
STEELE BURROW
CHRISTIAN RODEN


BUSINESS MANAGERS ROB GEORGE _\\\ I’ 
MATT GOSSETT ' I
DISTRIBUTION STAFF KELLY LANE

JOE MORAVEC
ZABRIAWN SMITH

expenses. All
contracting Cadets
receive a monthly
stipend of up to $500.

In addition, AROTC grants
$1,200 per school year to each
Cadet to cover the cost of
books. Most students can get
by on these allowances dur-
ing the school year, but what
about over the summer? Along
with providing valuable train-
ing and leadership experience,
schools like Leadership Train-
ing Course_(LTC), Leadership
Development and Assess-
ment Course (LDAC), and
Cadet Troop Leading Train-
ing (CTLT) earn Cadets extra

Greek 

Washington and Lee students have the opportunity '
to participate in the AROT C program if signed up

prior to the completion of their sophomore year.

serve in the National Guard or Army Reserve by
drilling with a local unit one weekend per, month,
giving them an earlier pay entry date and a higher
salary in the long run. In addition to the experience
and training offered by the Reserve Components,
the Cadets receive drill pay equal to the E-5 pay
grade, which equates to approximately $3,090 per
yean

Non—scholarship SMP cadets reserve eligibility
for up to $4,500 in Federal Tuition Assistance and
up to $6,000 in State Tuition Assistance. All SMP
Cadets beneﬁt from being non-deployable while in
the SMP program, and having the option to attend
Basic and Advanced Individual Training (AIT)
courses.

With current costs at $39,500 per school year

cems may weigh less on how to pay
for college and more on how to cam
money out of college. Not only does
the Army offer career opportunities
in a variety of ﬁelds, it pays as well
as nearly any other starting position
for college graduates. For example,
a newly commissioned Second Lieu-
tenant, right out of ROTC, stationed
in the DC Metro area would earn
approximately $56,000 per year, ac-
counting for salary and allowances. Factoring in
average health care costs and other beneﬁts that all
military personnel receive adds several thousand
dollars more. '

These ﬁgures are similar to the base salaries for
highly competitive starting positions in that area,
such as ﬁrst-year ﬁnancial analysts or consultants.

Army ROTC can help pay for college tuition
and other expenses. It provides a path to a desir-
able, well paying job in the US'Army as well as ,
prepares Cadets to be successful in any career. For
more information go to www.vmi.edu/arrny or see
a staff member in the Army ROTC department lo-
cated in Kilboume Hall on VMI’s South Post.

7006..

110 South Jefferson Street — Lexington, VA

13: 375“

Closed Every Monday — Beer & Wine
540-463-2002

  

5

lg .

. & American  5/  ‘

Brea'kfast~ Lunch~ Dinner _.   '-
(Breakfast served all day!) ‘-

EVAN SHARBER
DAVE WILSON
MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty, parents
and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper into news
affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable.
Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information
that prompts change.

Chinese Buffet

mMhM 
Tuesday — Friday 11:30 am: — 3:00 p.m.

Tuesday — Friday 4:30 p.m. — 9:30 p.m.

 

All Day Dinner Buffet 1 1:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m.

. Tuesday-Thursday: 7AM - 9PM 1‘ 4
Friday and Saturday: 7AM - 11-OPM ' 1‘

Sunday: 7AM — 3PM .
Closed Mondays - '  ~ .,

Free Delivery! — Minimum $25

‘TOLICT 31.3.’ 3?.

Iapanese Steak House and
Sushi Bar
In 1. , . I
Dinnerfor Two - $29.99 Shrimp or Chicken

3:30 p.m. -10:00 p.m.

.\'o Reservation Required

THE RING—TUM PHI Is PUBLISHED MONDAYS DURING
THE UNDERGRADUATE scHooL YEAR. THE RING—
TUM PHI Is A MEMBER or THE MEDIA BOARD,
BUT Is oTHERwIsE INDEPENDENT. ouEsTIoNs 0R
coNcERNs ABOUT THE PHI SHOULD BE ADDREssED
To THE EDIToRs AT PHI@WLU.EDU oR TO THE
MEDIA BOARD AT MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE
MEDIA BOARD Is AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-
RUN EDIToRIAL OVERSIGHT coMMITTEE WORKING
WITH ALL MEDIA ouTLETs ON THE WASHINGTON
& LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERs. WE REsERvE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR coNTENT AND LENGTH. LETTERs
AND ADVERTISING DO NoT NECESSARILY REFLECT
THE OPINION or THE RING-TUM PHI STAFF.
THIS NEWSPAPER ossERvEs cuRRENT COURT
DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 _ . . , ' l at 4* ' 0

TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060 '

FAX: (540)458-4059

EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Lunch and Dinner Specials!

Carry Out Available
Go Greek at.Niko's! _» 5'

167 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 540.464.9499
Fax: 540.464.1226

Look for menu at www.nikosgrilI-cafe.com

 

 

 

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2011

THE RING-TUM PHI -3

 

opinions

  ' Defendingthe Knicks and Obama

Stockton Bullitt shares two embarassing personal facts: he secretly roots for the Knicks and still likes Barack Obama

By Stockton Bullitt
OPINIONS EDITOR

I spend an inordinate amount of time defending
why I’m a fan of the Los Angeles Lakers.

Being that I’m not from Los Angeles and the
Lakers have had one of the best records of the last
ten years, my basketball fans are pretty dubious of
my relationship to the team.

I try to counter with statements like, “I defend-
ed Kobe through the rape trial” and “I was a fan
of the Lakers even when we (to properly show al-
legiance, one can always use the first person plural
pronoun when referring to the favorite team) were
so bad that our best hope was to blow a 3-1 lead to
Phoenix in the first round of the playoffs.” How-
ever, since I like equally successful and annoying
teams in other sports, mostly, my friends just scoff
and remind me of my inferior fan-hood.

I held on strong to the argument until this bas-
ketball season started. In my decade and a half long
marriage to the Lakers, I never thought that there
would be someone else. i I

And then Mike D’Antoni and his seven seconds
in heaven offense came into my life.

Since October, I have been a closeted Knicks
fan. I went to one of their games in Madison Square
Garden. I have a man crush on Danilo Gallinari. I
even bought a Raymond Felton jersey.

However, because I’m publicly a Laker fan, I
have to root for the Knicks from the fringes. I “ac-
cidentally” happen to catch all their highlights, and
I wear my Raymond F elton jersey only in private
so I do not attract too much attention.

See, even though I will still root for the Lak-
ers and always pledge allegiance to them, they are
simply not as fun to watch anymore.

Most of my life, even before they acquired
Shaq, there was something exciting about watching
the Lakers. They always drew me in, and I always
had a reason to use any means of access, including
Fox Sports Paciﬁc, to watch some of their games.
However, there’s this new team in my life (the
Knicks) that is far more attractive and fun to root
for, despite their inferior record.

So, even though .I will never tell my friends

.(who are too illiterate to read this article anyway)

about my secret love for the Knicks, I will watch
them from the shadows, enjoying the wonder that
is the Amare-led pick and go.
‘What did I learn about myself from this whole
ordeal? I am an incredibly shitty sports fan.
Although I undoubtedly know more about

sports than you (yep, I do, let’s just not argue about I

it), I do not qualify under any of the criteria that
makes for a quality sports fan.

If my team is doing badly, I do not wallow
in misery for months on end. Instead, I just start
watching another sport (in 2005, the teams I liked
were so bad that I watched countless hours of com-
petitive eating on ESPN2).

Although I know more about college football
players in the country as a whole, I couldn’t name
my favorite college football team’s entire offensive
line. .
By the way, ladies, the reason why your boy-

Sorry Mom, but

Washington and Lee is least ginger ginger elaborates on his

By Patrick Smith
CO LU M N I ST

I have been putting this article off for quite some
time now, but before I say anymore, I would like all
of you to know that I am in fact 21 years of age,
which means that I am much cooler than you are.

So, if you have not already ﬁgured it out, my ti-
tle pretty much, speaks for itself. I love beer. Word
of advice for the millions of ladies who read my
columns: beer is a fantastic gift.

I love American style lagers, pilsners, ales,
brown ales, golden ales, Hefweizens, stouts, IPA’s,
malt beer, ice beer...you name it; I have tried it
and loved it.

A very wise man once told me that there hasn’t
been a beer he has tried and not liked. I embrace
this saying and try something new every whenever
I have the opportunity.

There is so much about beer that I love. I love
the taste, the look, the variety and, most important-
ly, the fact that it gets you drunk.

You are all probably thinking that I am an alco-
holic, but that is far from the truth. I always drink
responsibly and prepare for safe and sober trans-
portation (Editor’s Note: Empirical research has
shown that “always” is not technically correct for
this sentence). I just love the stuff.

The ﬁrst time I stepped foot into the Washing-

friend doesn’t remember your anniversary is
because at Washington and Lee, every SEC fan
spends all his long term memory on backup play-
ers for their favorite team. ,

Basically, when it comes to sports, everyone
else besides me seems to value loyalty and devo-
tion above entertainment and enjoyment. .

The opposite is true when it comes to politics.

I have been on the Obama bandwagon practical-

ton remains an insider, partisan government, and
all the invested hope and change seems to‘ have
been bought up by Goldman Sachs.

Nowadays, it certainly isn’t cool to be an Obama
fan. .
Republicans right now have either stopped read-

ing entirely because I_’m talking about Lenin 2.0 or.

are smirking to themselves and rereading the last
paragraph, squealing in delight at all of Obama’s
supposed failures.

Basically, when it comes to sports, everyone else be-
sides me seems to value loyalty and devotion above

entertainment and enjoyment. The opposite is true

when it comes to poltics.

Democrats, the six on
campus at least, are all
telling me to shut up
and keeping talking
about basketball.

Still, I will attempt
to do what no one out
there seems to " want

to do: defend Barack’ I

  ‘ Obama.

ly from the start. I was introduced to bipartisanship
during his 2004 keynote address at the Democratic
National Convention. I made him my “official dark
horse candidate of the future” after his 2004 speech
following his Senate victory in Illinois. »

I even started heavily campaigning for him afte
I dumped the whole “Bill Richardson for President”
ﬁasco around December 2007. I’m not an Obama
expert by any means, but I think you can call me a
season ticket holder.

I followed the guy through the height of his
popularity, when not only was it cool to follow
Obama, but you couldn’t be cool unless you had
some association with the hottest presidential can-
didate since John F. Kennedy.

During the good ole days, people gave you high
ﬁves for canvassing, and somehow getting the
“Hope” poster on your t-shirt was an almost guar-
antee to get you laid.

These were times when people said, “I’m not
Republican. I’m a libertarian.” Oh wait, they still
say that? Well, more of them did around mid-
2008.

During the election season, Democrats respond-
ed to Obama the same way Knicks fans responded
to their team’s winning streak in late November
and half of December:_after nearly a decade of out-
right incompetence, this was the dream; this was
the hope; the future could be nothing but consis-
tent, enjoyable victory.

And then January came.

For Knicks fans, it was the return to mediocrity
and the remembrance that D’Antoni doesn’t know
the Italian word for “defense."

For the nation of newly crowned Obama fans,
the bandwagon felt more cluttered than the Beijing
subway, so people started jumping ship like a keg
of Jamesonjust rolled off.

Mortgages were going under. People were los-
ingjobs. And Obama hasn’t ﬁxed anything. Worse,
for the last two years, he hasn’t gotten even a frac-
tion of his original agenda accomplished, Washing-

ton Street Purveyor I damn near collapsed. My
eyes shot open and I realized two key points about
my life: this is what heaven is supposed to look
like, and I’m getting drunk tonight.

This is college after all, right?

When talking to
friends about Obama...well, let’s be honest, no
one really talks about politics in a casual setting
at W&L, and if they do, it’s usually the good ole
“Let me ask you what you think about politics just
so I can pontiﬁcate for hours on what I really think
without you ever getting a word in edgewise” kind
of conversation, and as a dirty Liberal residing in
Lexington, Virginia, those really aren’t the best
talks.

So, when talking to professors, parents, other
adults or fellow students when I happen to notice
an adult watching our conversation about Barack
Obama, the question usually comes down to “Would
you vote for him again?” and “Do you think he can
win in 2012?” Every single non-granola eater who
I have had this conversation with repeatedly gives
me a resounding “No” as an answer for both ques-
tions. I can only mutter “Yes,” and here’s why.

Originally I was going to go with the “It’s all
Congress’s fault” argument, which is easy to do
once checks and balances and quotes from Madi-
son are applied. However, I do believe that Obama
still has a pretty powerful hand in the government
and is responsible for his tenure there. So, here
are a couple of reasons why Barack Obama hasn’t
done as poorly as you might think.

Let’s start with health care.

Remember that monstrosity of a bill that has ru-
ined our country and thrown it into debt?

It’s that bill that nobody wanted passed, yet
Congress jammed it down our throats. I get that. I
listened to rhetoric. I watched Fox News. I did the
research. I see the problems.

But, you have to remember two things: I) he
is the ﬁrst President to get t‘his passed (and unlike
other initiatives of his time, this was his brainchild
and baby) after numerous previous attempts have
failed miserably and 2) you wanted this. Don’t
believe me? Re-watch some of the Presidential
debates in 2008. McCain had to answer every
health care question with “I don’t want a compre-
hensive health care bill, but...” and would ramble

off many different govemment-led initiatives that
pretty much sounded like a health care bill. Talk
to anyone during that election, and they would tell
you that they probably wanted some kind of public
health care.

When addressing the lack of success in com-
pleting his agenda, one important point should be
brought up to defend Obama: since when did we
start actually expecting presidents to fully accom-
plish all the things they said they would do during
an election?

I didn’t hear this complaint during the Bush ad-
ministration, nor did I hear it during’the Clinton
years. Suddenly Obama is supposed to fulﬁll ev-
erything he promised to do during a freaking elec-
tion?

Try holding the EC representatives to their
promises and see what happens.

Besides health care, look at the F rank/Dodd bill,

, the new stimulus, the repeal of Don’t Ask/Don’t

Tell for at least some evidence of success in pass-
ing initiatives.

Don’t like those government initiatives? Well,
that’s what he said he wanted to do during the 2008
election, so I don’t see why Obama’s following
through with those bills is all that surprising.

Try and talk a voter from'2008 out of the F rank/
Dodd bill, which provides much more bureaucratic
oversight to Wall Street. Now, from what I have
heard, the bureaucratic oversight is. pretty much a
waste of everyone’s time. Nevertheless, that’s what
we voted him into ofﬁce to do. Why complain that
he did it?

That was my thought process when my hope in
him was once again restored during his State of the
Union last Tuesday. I didn’t vote for him because
he was going to ﬁx my mortgage or single hand-
edly get us out of the recession. I voted for him
because he can talk the shit out of a speech.

He makes politics worth watching for me.

'I don’t know if “Rise to the Top” is any better
than “No Child Left Behind,” and I’m sure that,just
like the health care bill, you could give me tons of
reasons why it won’t work, just like in 2007 when
I gave everyone who I could ﬁnd umpteen reasons
why the surge in Iraq wasn’t going to work.

With most of his policies, time will tell how
effective they are (I know, I know, I sound like
Bush). .

But this year’s State of the Union address, just
like most of the other ones he’s given, reminds me
why I feel pretty good about 2012. V

I know that Republicans will outspend him 12
to 1, and I know that right now America isn’t exact-
ly on his side. But, how quickly we forget that he

I can give one damn good speech and that he can run

one damn ﬁne election, and when it comes down
to it, he’s at least a smart enough and bipartisan
enough candidate that if we really need him, I’m
pretty sure he’ll make the enlightened decision.

That’s why I’m an Obama fan...and maybe a
Knicks fan, just make sure you don’t tell anyone
on this campus.

I love beer

undying love for oollegians ’drink of choice

plan on doing your Spanish homework after having
a few of these.

One aspect of beer that I have gained an ap-
preciation for, especially in the States, is the beer
gimmicks.

’ I buy into every beer

The Miller Lite Vortex bottle is probably the best

thing since opposable thumbs.

The Washington Street Purveyor has so many
delicious options to choose from it is hard to know
where to begin. Since most ofmy columns are cri-
tiques I thought I would leave you with some sug-
gestions when attempting to try a nice beer.

Just last week I tried the Brooklyn Pennant Ale,‘

and it was phenomenal. ,
The feeling I got from drinking this ale can be

‘closely related to the same feeling you get when

having exact change, itjust all fell into place.
Another brew I particularly fancied was the
Dogﬁsh Head 90 Minute IPA. This one is a bit

heavier and contains about 9 percent ABV. Don’t ‘

gimmick there is and
have no shame for doing
so. It all started with the
vented wide-mouth cans
that Coors Light offers.
That developed into the
“blue mountains” that
we all know and love.

Above all, Miller Lite has won the beer gim-
mick award for the year. The Miller Lite Vortex
bottle is probably the best thing since opposable
thumbs.

I can honestly say that my go-to beer bottle is
the Miller Lite Vortex bottle solely because it looks
sweet as hell. -

The haters try to tell me that the Vortex bottle
is stupid and that there is no scientiﬁc proof the
grooves do anything at all. .

Before writing this article, I personally ran a
scientiﬁc test. I ﬁlled one standard 12 ounce bottle

and one Miller Lite Vortex bottle full to the rim
with water. I proceeded to pour them both out at
the same time. The Vortex bottle consistently out-
performed the standard 12 ounce bottle, usually by
a full second or more.

Argument squashed.

The next development in the American beer
world was the home draught boxes.

Now, I can get fresh and cold beer on tap straight
from my fridge. I can whip out one of the many
sweet beer glasses I collect and ﬁll it with cold and
refreshing draught.

At this point I would like to apologize to my
mother, who has probably already had two heart
attacks and a mild stroke.

Don’t worry, Mother, you raised a good son, I
just happen to love beer. .

To all you beer lovers out there, raise your glass
in the sky and salute to the magniﬁcence that is
been

 

 

   

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MON DAY, JANUARY 31, 2011

a rts&|ife'

 

Duo groups to -perform next Weekend

Ghostland Observatory and White Panda will play to W&L students Friday night at the Pavillion

By Mary Morgan Radcliff
STAFF WRITER

The word for this Friday night at Washington
and Lee is “duo.” W&L will host two acts, both
duos, The White Panda and Ghostland Observa-
tory, this upcoming Friday, Feb. 4 at Fechnay Pa-
vilion. Doors will open at 7 p.m. and the show will
begin at 7:30 p.m. Tickets for the show can be pur-
chased at the Commons all week, as well as at the
door and online at wandlmusictoday.com/Wash-
ingtonandLeeUniversity/calendar aspx.

Fresh on the remix scene is The White Panda,
a mashup duo, who will be opening for Ghostland
Observatory. The duo is made up of Tom Evans
(also known as Procrast) and Dan Grifﬁth (also
known as DJ Grifﬁ) based out of Chicago and Los
Angeles. The two got together in 2009 to combine
their previously solo efforts. The group releases
full song mashups and currently has two albums
out: Versus (2009) and Rematch (2010).

The White Panda has been playing their way
through Canada this past week and will cause quite
a stir by kicking off the show this Friday night in
Lexington. Upcoming shows for The White Panda
include a concert in Cancun at The Gran Melia in
March where they will rock the stage with other big
music names including Pretty Lights, Wiz Khalifa,
Sam Adams and Chiddy Bang.

As for Ghostland Observatory, there is abso-
lutely no other experience that comes close to the
euphoria of being part of one of their performances.
The lights, beats and dance groove blend together
simultaneously to make this band’s live shows an
aesthetically pleasing work of art. To prepare your-

, self for Friday, you must brace yourself and realize

what you are about to experience. Come ready. to
“move with your lover” and sport all things that
glow.

Ghostland Observatory is a blend of electro
and rock that is a distinctly unique and incred-
ibly funky Austin, Texas sound. The group blends
the personalities and talents of its two members,

Thomas Ross Turner and Aaron Behrens. Turner,
the producer, drummer and keyboardist of the duo,

takes a minimalist approach to his music; Behrens, ‘

who provides the vocals and guitar work, has inter-
ests that are formulated by his passion for psyche-
delia and rock. .

The music these two produce will allow you to
enter into a new realm of consciousness: an utter
state of the artistic sublime. Their music has been
commonly described as “syth-

funk” or “electro-dance rock.” ?

Behrens’s lively vocals and gui- -
tar will vibrate with the beats
and hooks generated by Turner
on Friday night. The duo’s mis-
sion is to take their listeners to
a new level of awareness that is
anchored in their own collective
consciousness. i »

I have been lucky enough
to see them perform at some
of the nation’s premier music
festivals, including Coachella
in Indio, California in 2009 and
Austin City Limits music festi-
val, also in 2009.

I awakened to the strength
and enthusiasm of this band’s
fan base when I saw them
perform at ACL. There were
thousands of people channeled
into Ghostland Observatory’s
performance amid a torrential
downpour, me included with
half of my body covered in mud
by the time the show was over.
In addition to this, the Universi-
ty of Texas marching band sud-
denly became an intricate part
of their showcase. The concert

was nearly over, when the back of the stage lit up
and, lo and behold, there stood the entire UT band,
performing “The Band Marches On” from this
funk-rock duo’s third album, Robotique Majes-
tique (2008).

While my past experiences have involved
grooving to the band’s sounds among many other
fans, I am amped about getting to encounter the
“Ghostland Observatory Experience” at W&L.

This time, instead of being surrounded by other
stranger lovers, I will be engulfed by a sea of my
friends in a personal setting that I know I will never
forget.

IMAGE COURTESY OF UCLARAD|O.COM

Fight off winter weather blues

There is no reason to be down this weather, follow these points to stay cool and put.a spring in your step

By Katy Stewart '
STAFF WRITER

This time of year can be tough. Recruitment is
over, thedays are still short, you don’t have Christ-
mas coming up anytime soon and classes are beat-
ing down your back. But don’t worry! Everyone
feels that way, and there are ways to beat the win-
ter blues. The most important thing is to keep your
chin up, but if that doesn’t work, try one of these
tried-and-true methods of boosting morale and en-
joying early February in Lexington.

Liven up your school supplies. When it feels

like all you do is work, work, work, you probably .

just need to spruce up your pencil pouch. The tools
you use should be as happy as they are functional.
For example, whenever possible, I use colorful

pens, fabric-"wrapped paper clips, toile-patterned .

binder clips and ﬂowery post-its. And I’m a big fan
of fun folders. Nowadays you can get pretty fold-

_ ers anywhere. Why not go for the double beneﬁt

of organization and cuteness? My mother regularly
sends me folders because she knows I adore them.
Also, shout-out to my friend Ali Greenberg for
suggesting Lilly in small doses. Homework ﬂies

when I’m using my Lilly highlighters. I promise
she and I are not endorsed by Lilly Pulitzer... al-
though I wish I were!

Get coffee and read a magazine in town. When

down. I call this kind of reading “mental popcorn”
because it’s yummy, light and gives you a little
break.

Do an arts and crafts project. My friend Tricia

you live in gave me a
3 bubbles Take a lap around the Colonnade... Just being out- Disney Prin-
it’s impor- ' cess color-
tam to be doors is therapeautic. It feels good to stretch your ing book
reminded and, I’m
of the real legs and get some crisp air running through your not kidding,
world, and —' there is no
venturing ll/lI’lgS. better stress
up Nel- reliever than
son Street focusing. on
does just  ‘Staying in_

the trick. Downtown Lexington is prime people-
watching territory, and nothing says real life like
cute older gentlemen, angsty Rockbridge County
teenagers and small adorable children bundled in
Hanna Andersen outerwear. And you must read
something non-academic. I’m all for intellectual
stimulation, but this time I’m putting my foot

side the lines. ,
Take a lap around the Colonnade. One of my
best memories from last year was power walking
through campus with my current roommate, Caki.
It was about this time last year and was such a drea-
ry day, but we set aside 15 minutes just to clear our
heads and pump our arms. You don’t need to hike

omic of the yveek

 

CHRISTIAN RODEN / staff cartoonist

Great food & a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

a mountain to feel the beneﬁts. Just being outdoors
is therapeutic. It feels good to stretch your legs and
get some crisp air running through your lungs.

Exfoliate. In the winter, everyone gets dry skin,
so it’s important to slough it away. What better
feeling than that cool tingle of freshly scrubbed
skin? Love it, and love that glow. Go to Walmart,
browse the beauty aisle and pick something that
smells good and comes in pretty packaging.

Invite a friend on a Non-Rush Date. Just be-
cause Recruitment is over doesn’t mean you have
to go back to the same apple and sandwich at D-
Hall every day. In fact, post.-Recruitment “rush
dates” are even more fun because you don’t have
to wear your “rush face”— you know what I mean
by that. You can be a real person and complain or
curse if you want. Make a date with a friend in a
different sorority and catch up.

Ema, '¢ Eeetamaot

PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN TOY CAFE

Located at

LEE ill. ,'l'ltllllEl. PLAZA

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu _
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5pm-10pm
. Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 11pm-2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am-11am
Daily Hot Country Bar 12Noon -10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 10:30am-10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 North Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA

540-463-3478

 

sb

Now with A A
.   a A FOUR
.2:.':':.':..'3‘:.*:.':::.:-. 
& Huge Living Room A AVAILABLE

    
 
    
   
   
       
  

GENERALS’
RETREAT

APARTMENTS

NOT Affiliated with ‘Washington & Lee University

  

 

 

*Where girls and guys can actually live in the same apartment complex.

A *Remember how git that was in the dorms? Can you say CO-ED?
*Where you can walk home from the House or party. _
*Where you can actually go homebetween classes or before practice.
*Where you can get _2_O more_minute_s of sle_ep before leaving for class.
*Where you can live gear your friends without having to live Mg; them.
*Unless of course you want to live with them, which you can also do here.

 

   

*Where cats and dogs play together. And the trash water & internet are FREE

 
   

 

   
  

 

 

Townhome Style Apartments
On Nelson Street _
~ Now WTH 4-B 2 BA UNITS
OPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY IN JANUARY FROM 12-4
COME CHECK us our A
,» l A g.   ——~~—« ‘M 
.  
1
l


540-464-36  
ian@tbmcom.com

  

 

 

  

MONDAY, .lllNUARY, 31, 2011

sports

 

6 - THE RING-°TUM PHI

Tough opponent sinks swimming

T he fourth-ranked men and ﬁfth-ranked women of Johns Hopkins prove to be too much for the Generals to overcome

By Callie Clemons
STAFF WRITER

After three straight wins, the Washington and
Lee men’s and women’s swim teams both suffered
an away loss to the John Hopkins Blue Jays on
Saturday. The women’s team, which is now 8-3 on
the season, fell to the ﬁnal score of 167-89, while
the men’s team, now 8-4, ﬁnished with a score of
146.5-92.5.

“As the fourth-ranked team in the country, we
knew that Hopkins would be a tough opponent,”
said men’s coach Joel Shinoﬁeld. “They deﬁnitely
lived up to their ranking, winning the majority of
the events.”

This meet fell at an important time in the teams’
seasons. With only two weeks left until the con-
ference championships begin, it was one the last
chances for the swimmers to ﬁneytune their strate-
gies and techniques in a competitive atmosphere.

Aﬂer the past ﬁve months of intense training,
the swimmers are ﬁnally entering into a period of
rest. However, many of the swimmers were expe-
riencing fatigue after pushing their bodies for so
long.

“We showed up and had some very high-quality
swims despite the level of fatigue across the team,”

said men’s captain Ryan Hartman. “Hopkins sim-
ply outperformed us.”

The men’s team had four individual event victo-
ries, while the women’s team had three.

Junior Chris Washnock had two event wins: the
200 back (l:56.l6) and the 200 IM (2100.20). Se-
niorlteam captain Brandon Wilder took home the
500 free (4149.92) and junior Brian Stirling won
the 100 ﬂy (52.07).

For the women’s team, sophomore Brittany
Ross scored top place in the 200 ﬂy (2214.82). Ju-
nior and team captain Katie Salvati won the 200

IM (2:21 .49), and ﬁrst-year Lauren Kasoff ﬁnished g

top in the 100 ﬂy (1201.96).

‘ “Overall the teams swam solidly,” said Salvati.
“We know we have done all we can to prepare for
ODACs, and are excited to compete.”

The men’s team returns to action on Feb. 5 to
compete in the Virginia Tech Invitational at 11:00
a.m. in Blacksburg, while the women completed
their regular season with the Johns Hopkins meet.

Both teams will be back in the pool on February
1 1-13 to compete in the ODAC Championships.

Wrestling falls to Johns Hopkins

The Generals battle as injuries plague the young team, affecting their depth and limiting their options during meets

By Mike Decembrino
smrr wnnsn

The Washington and Lee Generals wrestling
team dropped a 45-3 decision to Johns Hopkins
Blue Jays in a Centennial Conference matchup on
Saturday in Baltimore, Md. The Generals only
won one of the ﬁve matches wrestled and lost an-
other ﬁve by forfeit.

Junior Sam Campbell notched the only win for
the Generals at 149 pounds with a 6-0 decision over
Hugh Barham Bahe ofthe Blue Jays.

First-year Dan Igel said of his teammate,
“Campbell wrestled great today; he was probably
our best wrestler of the day.”

Referring to the rest" of the team, Igel said,
“They put up a great effort but really struggled.
Hopkins is a great team; they spend a lot of time
in the weight room, and they’re a tough team to
wrestle.”

W&L forfeited at the 125, 133, 184, 197 and
285-pound weight classes.

The Generals have had signiﬁcant issues with

injuries this year. Two of the team’s key wrestlers,

senior captain Keith J aworski and junior Dave Den-

nis, have been sidelined for the past few weeks.
“We’ve had a ton of injuries, we started the sea-

ent feel for different styles,” Igel said. “But we still
have a lot of great guys left to work with‘ and get
better.”

The loss drops the Generals to 1-7 overall and

son with 17 0-5 in the
people and “ ‘ , . . . Centennial
were down We have a lot of good people we re just lacking in C0nfer_
to six or , - - - ence.
Seven active depth...It s deﬁnitely more dzﬁicult to prepare with While
Wrestlers‘ 1‘ less people in the room to work with. But, we still m°StW&L
has really teams
hurt °“”e“"‘ h ve a lo 0 reat u s on the te m ” "°mP°‘°
this year,” a t  g y [ a  in the Old
Igel said‘ DAN IGEL ﬂrst-year wrestler Dominion
Injuries ’ Athletic
have not only Confer-

affected the outcomes of the Generals’ matches, but
they have also made practices more of a struggle.
“lt’s deﬁnitely more diﬂicult to prepare with less
people in the room to work with and get a differ-

. ence, the wrestling team participates in the Centen-

nial Conference, made up of teams mainly from the
Pennsylvania and Maryland region. This frequently
makes travelling diﬂicult for the Generals.

W&L, however, will play host to this year’s
Centennial Conference Championships on Feb. 26.
“A lot of people are going to be able to make it back
for conferences,” Igel said, referring to the team’s
lack of depth for much of the season.

As for how he thinks the tournament will go, he
said, “The outlook for conferences is pretty good;
we have a lot of good people we’re just lacking
in depth. So, as far as tournaments go we have a
pretty strong team.”

INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITY INITIATIVE (IOI)

Mac Davis ‘12 thought that inviting parents to offer internships and summer experiences foristudents would be a good idea.
Career Services agreed and togetherwe developed an outreach plan with the goal:

To increase the number of quality opportunities available for W&L students
by tapping into the W&L network of alumni, family and friends

To apply:

1. Log onto W&L JobLink

2. Take a moment to complete your proﬁle

3. Click on the W&L Jobs tab

4. In the Position Type ‘menu, choose Internship Opportunity Initiative

5. Click Search

Digital Marketing Intern

PriceWeber Marketing Communications Inc.
Louisville, KY; Application due March 15

INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE:

Clinic Intern

Richmond SPCA
Richmond, VA; Application due Feb. 11

Public Relations Intern

Richmond SPCA ,
Richmond, VA; Application due Feb. I 1

Legal Intern

Kentucky Court of Justice
Louisville, KY; Application due Feb. 1]

Real Estate Intern

Walker & Dunlop
Bethesda, MD; Application due Feb. 11

Ministry Leader/Hospitality Intern
A Christian Ministry in the National Parks (ACMNP)
Nationwide; Application due Feb. 15

Marketing and Planning Intern

PriceWeber Marketing Communications Inc.
Louisville, KY; Application due March 2

Legal Assistant Intern
Barton Barton & Plotkin, LLP

Sincere thanks to the student City Coordinators from seven
targeted geographic areas who volunteered their time and
connections to develop the list of internships:

Atlanta Cantey Hattink (’ 12)
Tyler Grant (’ 12)
Leslie Peard (’ 13)
Birmingham Bobby Rutherford (’ 12)
Elizabeth Bean (’ 13)
Boston Ben Oddo (’ 12)
Katharine Price (’ 13)
Charlotte Ben Tumbull (’ 12)
1 Katy Stewart (’ 13)
D.C. Area Olivia Burr (’ 12)
Jimmy Pickle (’ 12)
Louisville Mac Davis (’ 12)
_ Elizabeth Ward (’ 13)
Richmond Maggie Thomas (’12)
O
CareerServ1ces

5}

 

 

. MONDAY,JANUARY 31, 2011 THE RING-TUM PHI -7

sports

Men fall to Vrginia Wesleyan, 89-78  

Men is basketball ﬁnds success in a 73-6] decision. against,Em0ry & Henry, but again drop to Vizfginia Wesleyan

u

 

By William Crosby
STAFF W R ITER

  
  
   
 

Washington and Lee men’3 with 15 points, while going 4-4 in free throws. Sophomore This game follows a 73-61 W&L home victory last
basketball _1°_5t to seventh‘ J .D. Ey also played a great game with 10 rebounds and nine Thursday against Emory & Henry.
ranked Vlrgmla Wesleyall C01‘ points. However, VWC answered everything that W&L Next, on Feb. 2, the Generals travel to Lynchburg to take
lege for ‘1 Seeond “me thls Sea’ tried. The Generals struggled to break their tight man-to- on the Randolph Wildcats.
son on Saturday. VWC was man defenSe_

able to extend 3 feur Point Along with Ford’s 22 points, Woodmoore had 18 and
lead in the ﬁnal minutes of Vaughn helped with 13_

the game to Seeure 3 89'78 Earlier in the year, the Generals lost7l-61 atVWC.That
Victor)’ at the Wamer Cemen game ended a ﬁve-game winning streak for the Generals. I n

W&L W35 trailing only that game, VWC had 11 offensive rebounds.
74-78 with a little over two

minutes left in the second pe-
riod, but VWC would not give up.
VWC’s D.J. Woodmore hit a three-
pointer, starting their late game 6-4 run.
Tre’ Ford put the ﬁnal nail in the coﬂin as
he hit every one of his six free throws in the
last few minutes of the game. Ford led the
Marlins with 22 points.

The Generals managed to keep the game
close until the .ﬁnal few minutes. W&L had
the lead 2l-20 thanks to Kevin Gill’s layup
with a little over eight minutes left in the ﬁrst
half. The lead did not last long, however, as
the Marlins continued to answer back.

Right before the half, the Generals gained
momentum and went for an 8-3 run started
by a jumper from Jeremy Adkins to bring
the halftime score to 40-35 in favor of the
Marlins. .

Offensive layups and steals were two fac-
tors that gave VWC a large advantage over

W&L. Tre’ Ford had ﬁve steals in the game
all of which lead to a score. VWC also had ‘_
\ ten offensive rebounds, which were also .1 e
-\ key to their victory.
Despite W&L shooting 48.2 per-
‘\ cent compared to the Marlins’ 45.8

' \ percent, the Generals couldn’t put

"5 together enough to pull off the vic-
\\ tory. I

'« VWC was able to sink nine . ~ 1 . 3.4. 3 V -21 »

J 3' three-pointersqout of sixteen at- '-
tempts and managed l6 tum-
overs. '
Jeremy Adkins led the Generals

  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 

4'.
.‘7

_ ./ .

     
   
 

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
 

    
     
    
    
  
 

 
 

Above: Junior Jon Guest takes a shot ‘ » . 8
Above right: Sophomore Taylor Gllﬁllan fights for a score
against an Emory & Henry player

 
   
   
  

 
  

Left:‘Senior Jason Cimino attempts a steal
Above: Guest takes the ball down the court as an E&H player defends

  
 
 

 
 
 

W

sreeu-: BURRO / ephotographel

 

 

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2011

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

ondeck

MoN Tues Wen Tnuns FRI SAT sun
at at
Mews Randolph Ra“d°'P""
Basketball 7 p.m. ""‘='°°"
2 p.m.
V5 at at
Women's H°'""5 Roanoke Brldgewater
Basketball 7 p_m_ 7 p_m_ 3 Wm
Vlrglnla
Men's’ Tech
swlmmngl lnvltatlonal
11 a.m.
at .
Wrestllng Muhlenberg
' 7 p.m.
VMI
Men’s
Track & Remy‘
F|Old 9 a_m_
IllIomen’s VMI
Track & Relays
Fleld 9 a_m_
Randolph
Rldlng ‘ IHSA
tnvltatlonall V

in the numbers
3

W&L Track and Field set this many school records in their‘two—day
meet at Liberty University. Sophomore Marissa Thompson ran 60
meters in 8.14, while first-year Cole Glasgow ran it in 7.19. The 4x400
meter relay team of Tyler Grant, Steven Colliau, Dillon Myers and Zan-

der Tallman set a record as well.

105,000

The number of people expected to attend this weekend's Super Bowl
at Cowboys Stadium, which would set a new record for Super Bowl
attendance.The current mark is set at 103,985, which is held by the

1980 Super Bowl that took place at the Rose Bowl.

270 A

The number of tennis majors that have come and gone without a Brit-
ish man claiming the title, nearly 75 years. This drought continues
after Andy Murray fell to Novak Djokovic in straight sets in the finals of

the Australian Open.

TFIEI

Ok, so that's not a number. But, if that is the score at the end of regu-
lation for this year's Super Bowl, resulting in overtime, Papa‘John’s will
give a free 3—topping large pizza to every single person who signs up.

Go to PapaJohnsOT.com to get in on this.

soapbox

“When you’re not used to winning, you do a little
bit more talking to try to talk yourself into it. May-
be when they get an opportunity to win champion-
ships they’ll keep their mouths closed and play. ”

Pittsburgh Steelers nose tackle Casey Hamton said this following
the Steelers win over the New York Jets last Sunday. Jets’ players
were quoted saying that they would win the game in the days leading

up to the game, in addition to more than a fair-share of pre-game
smack-talk.

“If he wants to impress us, he can do that by
keeping the Rangers off we/fare. Let’s see if they
can be revenue sharing payers instead of recipi-
ents for three years ‘in a row without getting mon-
ey from Major League Baseball. ”

New York Yankees president Randy Levine, referring to the Texas
Rangers and their CEO, Chuck Greenburg. The MLB is run in a way
that has wealtheir teams share revenue with the less-well off teams,
resulting in a system that resembles well-fare.

W&L basketball took
down Emory & Henry

78-6] despite slow start

By Stephen Peck
STAFF WRITER

Senior guard Allie Long’s historic
shooting night defused a hot start by Emory
and Henry and led the Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team to a resounding
78-61 win on Saturday at the Warner Cen-
ter.

The Generals are now 12-5 for the sea-
son and 8-4 in conference play.

Long lead the team in scoring with a
career high 22 points, including six three-
pointers. She was 6 for 10 in shots beyond
the are, good enough to tie the school re-
cord for triples in a game.

Long credited her stellar performance to '

her teammates.

“I think [my success] was a mix of both
receiving great passes from my teammates
who set up my shots really well, and also
just being on tonight,” Long said. “A lot of
times shootingjust comes down to whether
or not you are on a speciﬁc night.”

Long also managed to stuff the stat
sheet with four rebounds, three assists and
two steals. She also added a block, for good
measure.

While Long was on ﬁre Saturday, ju-
nior guards and All-ODAC performers
Meg Ingram and Becca Bolton struggled to
ﬁnd their shooting stroke. The two leading
scorers for the Generals average 17 and 13
points per game respectively, but combined
for only 13 versus the Wasps.

Despite the lopsided score, the game
was all E&H for much ofthe first half. I

The Wasps, who are 3-13 for the season
and 2-10 in ODAC play, jumped out to a
quick 5-0 lead and stretched it to 12-7 just
four minutes into the contest. Emory and
Henry senior guard Christina Howard’s 11
points in the ﬁrst 6 minutes of the game
gave the’ Wasps enough of a cushion to
maintain the lead with 8:07 to go in the ﬁrst
half. ‘

The defending ODAC champs never
panicked.

Ajumper by Bolton tied the game at 25-
25 with eight minutes to go in the halfnand
the Generals never looked back.

They proceeded to go on a 20-1 run to
end the ﬁrst period and’ sent the Wasps to
the locker room facing a 45-26 deﬁcit at the
break.

“We did a really good job keeping our
calm despite their quick lead,” Long said.

fur

« ":9:-1

STEELE BURROW/ head photographer

 

Junior guard Allison Sublett takes the ball down the court during
Saturday's game against Emory & Henry. Sublett put up 7 points.

“Sometimes we get really tight when
teams we are supposed to beat start off
with a lead, but today we kept our com-
posure and played like a team the rest of
the game.” '

An 8-0 run in favor of the Generals
started the second period, making matters
worse for Emory and Henry. The W&L
women would eventually stretch their lead

.to 31 points with just under nine minutes‘

to go.

The Wasps managed a 21-8 run to end
the game, helping to make the ﬁnal score
a little easier on the eyes, but W&L still
went home with a needed conference vic-
tory.

W&L‘s depth and rebounding tenacity
were key in defeating the undermanned
and undersized Wasps.

Nine different Generals scored in the

contest, and they dominated the boards,



l

.. 5',

outrebounding their opponents by a 44-29
margin.

In addition to Long’s 22 points, the
Generals were paced by sophomore for-
ward Katy Wilson’s 12 points and nine re-
bounds and senior center Felice Herman’s
10 points and 6 boards.

For Emory and Henry, freshman guard
Jalan McPherson led the team with 19
points, while Howard ﬁnished with 13
points and seven rebounds. Freshman
guard Jo Beth Wright also netted 13
points.

The Generals win erased the bad mem-
ories from their performance on Tuesday
as they lost to Virginia Wesleyan 59-47.

W&L only shot 37.5% from the ﬁoor en .

route to putting up a season low for to-

tal points and could not overcome a 20-2 ‘

Marlin run that ended the ﬁrst period and
stretched into the second. '

Junior forward Kari Ann Pfan-
nenstein led the Generals with 16
points in that game while Ingram
scored 13. Herman netted nine
and picked up six rebounds.

However, nobody could stop
Wesleyan’s junior forward Kris-
ten Blalock, who ﬁnished the
game with 27 points and nine re-
bounds.

The women have only eight
games left for the season before
they begin playing in the ODAC
tournament. Long was clear about
what the team wants to accom-
plish this year.

“Our goals are to win the

ODAC again and to make it to the
sweet sixteen of the NCAA play-
offs,” Long said. “We think this
is achievable if we play our best
every game and take it one game
at a time.”
. The Generals’ next game is
at home on Tuesday versus Hol-
1ins.Tipoffis 7 p.m. in the Warner
Center. 1

Sophomore Rachel War-
rick puts up a shot against

Emory & Henry on Saturday.

