 

Stockton. sees you drivin’ town
   with the classhew   

  

lastFriday,

.l’;:‘:f"~l. l~ ' Tl-

  “Everyone likes pandas.”

Mash-up duo the White Panda rocked the Pavilion
and the Phi scored an exclusive
interview with DJ Griffi and Proorast.

ARTS & LIFE / page 5

AING AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-’I‘UM PHI.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011

Revisions
released

New policy would shrink
SFHB, add guidelines for
sexual assualt cases

By Paige Gance
STAFF WRITER

The Ofﬁce of Student Affairs released proposed
revisions to the Student-Faculty Hearing Board sec-
tion of the Student Handbook last Tuesday, the re-
sult of a review called for by President Ruscio over
a year ago.

The SFHB hears cases of student conduct that
include non—Greek hazing, harassment, discrimina-
tion, retaliation, and sexual misconduct. The most
signiﬁcant revisions have been made to the last cat-
egory.

Student groups like End It have pressured the ad-
ministration to make changes to the sexual assault
section of the handbook. End It originated from a
Women’s and Gender Studies seminar that focused
on the issue of sexual assault.

Eric Gehman, president of End It, believes that
the new proposal is an important step, but that more
could be done to improve the policy.

He said that the current proposal needs more
speciﬁc sanction guidelines and deﬁnitions of what
constitutes certain types of sexual assault. Currently,
the sanctions for almost every act range from con-
sultation of the board to dismissal, except for rape,
for which the only sanction is dismissal.

“Students need to know what is expected of
them,” said Gehman. End It had submitted a draft
to the Office of Student Affairs with speciﬁc ex-
amples of each offence and were told that it would
-be used as a template for the revisions. However,
Gehman said, “what they released for comment was
essentially based on the recommendation of an ad-
hoc committee commissioned by the president last
year.”

End It is promoting a meeting next Thursday
at 7 p.m. for all students and faculty to voice their
comments and concerns about the new policy. The
agenda will include a review of both the policy re-
leased for comment and the one recommended by
End It, with the goal of encouraging student support
for further changes. -

The revised policy released by the Ofﬁce of Stu-
dent Aﬂ°airs contains some key changes from the
original. The size of the SFHB is reduced from eight
faculty members and eight students to just four fac-
ulty members, four students and one administrator.

There is also a sizeable addition of text concern-
ing sexual assault. According to the proposal, “the
Executive Committee will, in its process of nomi-
nating students, elicit the participation ‘of stake-
holder groups on campus that may not be normally

represented on the EC, including sexual assault pre- g

vention and response groups.”

The revision also clariﬁes situations in which
both parties are under the influence of alcohol or
other drugs. It says, “it is the responsibilityof the
person initiating physical sexual contact to obtain
consent,” and also that the other person must have
the capacity to give consent.

The issue of sexual assault at W&L has been
pushed to the forefront in recent years by a combina-
tion of statistics and student initiative, including the
new Green Dot program for bystander intervention.
The administration is also considering adding a one-

_credit mandatory course for ﬁrst-years on matters of
honor and civility.

According to the ﬁnal report from the Women’s
and Gender Studies seminar, “At W&L, our Nation-
al College Health Assessment data show that among
undergraduates, in 2009 alone 25.4 percent of fe-
male students experienced sexual battery (touch-
ing against their will), more than twice the national
average; 7.4 percent experienced attempted rape,
at twice the national average; and 6.5 percent were
raped, more than three times the national average.”

BY THE1STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXIV, NUMBER_,)*2/

Generals’ mental health
Fighting depression at Washington and Lee

By Lizz Dye
srnrr WRlTER

The emotional health of college
freshmen is lower than it has ever
been, according to the results of a
study published in the Wall Street
Journal. And according to the Health
Center, the numbers are no different
at Washington and Lee.

The study was administered by
UCLA’s Higher Education Research
Institute. More than 200,000 ﬁrst-
year, full-time students at nearly 280
U.S. colleges and universities are
surveyed. The response rate is usu-
ally above 90 percent.

According to the study, 52 percent
of ﬁrst-year college students rate their
emotional health as “above average”
or “in the highest 10 percent.” That
number is down from 55.3 percent in
the previous year’s survey. It is also
far below the nearly 64 percent of re-
spondents who gave themselves high
ratings in 1985, whichwas the year
this survey was established.

Conditions at W&L seem to
match up with the national statis-
tics. Christy Barongan from Student
Health and Counseling said that

W&L students reported greater dis-
tress in almost every category than
students at similar schools. She also
said that the counselors see a greater
number of students at the counseling
center than others schools.

Barongan said that W&L’s high
numbers could actually reﬂect posi-
tive change. “Students here may be
more proactive about seeking help,
Barongan said.

But the stress of going to college
can also create an environment that
leads to more difﬁculties for college
ﬁrst-years, Barongan said.

One male student, who asked to
remain anonymous, said he was not
surprised by the report. His mental
health issues began in high school
when he was diagnosed with depres-
sion and anxiety. He went to coun-
seling regularly then, but he had
hoped when he went to college that
his problems would either go away
or diminish. He found that this was
deﬁnitely not the case and his expe-
rience with depression and anxiety
may have gotten worse here.

This student said that his biggest
issue at W&L is the social experi-
ence of attending class. He feels ex-
treme anxiety when assigned a mul-
titude of work and fears being called
upon in the middle of class if he is
not completely prepared. He has also
struggled with class attendance and
always exceeds the limit of allowed
skips.

This student has been able to ﬁnd
some help at W&L. He said that

‘thankfully most professors under-

stand if he speaks with them early
in the term about his depression and
anxiety. But he also said there have
been times when his grades would
have been higher if he’d been able to
attend more frequently.

His advice to other students with
similar issues is to be proactive in
talking with professors and keep in
constant contact. Most are complete-
ly understanding and non-judgmen-
tal, he said.

Another problem for students

_ struggling, with anxiety and depres-

sion is the stigma, the student said.

He said many men on this campus
assume that men should be tough
and not have depression or anxiety.
He said he wants to emphasize that
men deal with these issues as well as
women. ~

W&l students have many re-
sources to help them in their struggle
with mental pressures. Active Minds
is a new organization on campus
whose goal is to raise awareness
about depression and anxiety, among
other things. Both University and
Peer Counseling provide a safe en-
vironment for students to talk about
their concerns and get any help they
need.

Students raise awareness of mental health

By Kelly Mae Ross
STAFF WRITER

In light of the recent Tucson,
Ariz., shootings, discussions about
mental health and the ways it is ad-
dressed have become more preva-
lent in Washington, in the news and
among members of the general pub-
lic.

Mental health agencies across the
country saw an increase in phone
calls and website traffic following
the shootings and the constant media
speculation about the mental health
of suspected gunman Jared Lee
Loughner. According to an article
recently published in The Chronicle
of Philanthropy, “traffic increased 15
percent last month over January 2010
on the National Alliance on Mental
lllness’s website and 18 percent on
Mental Health America’s, with many
visitors seeking out the ‘how to get
help’ sections.”

Members of the Washington and
Lee community began an effort last
year, before the shootings occurred,
to raise awareness about mental
health issues on campus‘. These ef-
forts culminated in the creation of
a campus chapter of an organiza-
tion called Active Minds. This is a
national nonproﬁt organization that
works to educate college students
about mental health issues and the
resources that are available to help
them with such struggles. Active

Minds boasts chapters at 300 college V

campuses across the country and
continues to grow and expand.
Lauren Ashley Tipton, a junior,
is the president of W&L’s chapter of
Active Minds, which currently has
about 18 members. But the relatively
small size of the group has not kept
its members from thinking big. Ac-
tive Minds plans to sponsor an Eating
Disorders Awareness Week on cam-

pus the week of Feb./28. Students all,

over the country will be participating
in various events in honor of Nation-
al Eating Disorders Awareness Week
from Feb. 20-26, but W&L students

will be on break during that time.

Tipton said that disordered eat-
ing is a “pretty prevalent issue on
campus,” which is why the members
of Active Minds thought it was im-
portant and worthwhile to organize a
week to promote discussion and un-
derstanding of it. ‘

While the details have not yet
been completely ﬁnalized, Active
Minds will be organizing several
different events during the week in-
cluding Operation Beautiful, a post-
it note campaign to end negative
self-talk, and a discussion led by a
panel of students who have struggled
with eating disorders and are now in
recovery.

Besides working on putting to-
gether events for Eating Disorders
Awareness Week, Active Minds has
also organized several conﬁdential
support groups on campus for stu-
dents who are struggling with vari-
ous issues. There is a group for dis-
ordered eating, a group for dealing
with symptoms of depression and a
group for dealing with grief.

Survey results recently published
in The Wall Street Journal show that

'nationally, only 52 percent of fresh-

men college students rated their men-
tal health as “above average or in the
highest 10 percent.” This number has
been decreasing since 1985 when 64
percent of freshmen students polled
believed that their mental health was
within this healthy range.

The survey also concluded that
mental health problems tend to affect
freshmen women more frequently
than their male counterparts. How-
ever, Tipton said that the issues ad-
dressed by Active Minds are not, by
any means, exclusive to girls.

Active Minds member Madison
McCune, a sophomore, said that
there are lots of people on cam-
pus struggling with these issues, so
students should not feel nervous or
self-conscious about asking for help.

--x'.t"/{,1};

 VOICEQ Hi;Ai2i>

“W//[W A 6'00? FF/El/P 0F
M//1/E 6'0/WM/TIID 5'0/6'/DE
71//S’ P497/W/1X / W45’ _
S’//06'K£’P. / W/15’ //02?/F/£0.
/ W49 0!/EIPW//El/WED W/7I/
6'0/£7. / KA/EW 7?//I7 //E
W45’ ///WM/6’ 5'0/ME //APP
77/MES’, B07 / 71/0!/6//f //E
WAS’ 6'57?’//1/6’ 71/l?006W
72/EM. / K//0W 71//17 W///17
//APP!/JED WASW 7M)’
F4017, 307 /70/D/1/7’/W0

SW1! 005$’/l7KEEP ME
PRO/M W/S’///M5’ 71/[PE WAS’
$'0M£7I//I/6'-A/VV71///1/6’-71/47
/ 60019’!/E D0!!! 70 S’!/0W
///M 71/47 5'0/W50/1/I 6'4/PEP.”

Help promote open

“l3ig". stuff with vour

friends. rlhey need you
and talking is often
the best medicine.

 

FOR MEETING TIMES AND LOCATION CONTACT:
/1urmiganr(ﬂ7w/u.z'dz4 orjlwl/rrtﬁlwlu.czlu for disordered eating support group
/</114/n‘(i"ruli:.rz1u for dealing with symptoins of depression support group
1']!!!/E."@)'t1'/ll.U11Zl for dealiiig with grief support group

— Aiwngmouri  iliuiuil

dialogue about the

McCune also said that participation
in Active Minds and the events that
it sponsors are not just for those who
have personally been affected by a
mental health issue, but also for those
who see a friend struggling and want
to learn how to help.

If you are interesting in becoming
involved in Active Minds, email Lau-
ren Ashley Tipton at tipt0nlI2@mail.
wlu.edu for more information.

lA~

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
vIAsHlNcroN & LEE UNIVERSITY

2 . THE R|NG_1'uM pﬂl I_EXll\lGlON,VI\ Z4-‘r'.)t)

FEi4 2011

   

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011

opin

ions

 

Registration riles up student body   -

After having his own registration nightmare, Stockton Bullitt vents... and has some suggestions for the registrar

By Stockton Bullitt
OPINIONS EDITOR

I don’t want to write an article about
the registration process.

Honestly, I had about ﬁfteen other
topics I would rather ramble on incoher-
ently about.

For instance, I really wanted to do
a light hearted article on the protests in
Cairo. Up until last Friday, the article
was practically writing itself.

The Egyptians took the riot against
the government routine to rioting’s
greatest heights since at least 1968 and
maybe even 1789. The looting done in
Cairo with all the military and police in
Tehrir Square put those done after Ka-
trina and Watt to absolute shame. And
let’s be honest, who doesn’t love a good
ole “let’s kick out the old, military re-
gime” routine. Yes We Can!

But, that’s around the time when
things got ugly, and jokes didn’t seem
appropriate. Mubarak’s supporters
pulled a classic LexPo move and barged
in, ruining the party way before it was
over. A Google executive went missing
for a while, and everyone in Lexing-
ton hoped that one of our own students
would make it out of the situation intact.
Thankfully, he did. .

I could’ve written about the fan-
tastically lame Super Bowl half time
show, which oﬁicially beat The Who
for worst performance ever. Strangely
enough, though, half the people I talked
to seemed to actually like it even though
Usher’s microphone didn’t work. But I
couldn’t write about that either.

See, every student at this school has
had at least one registration nightmare
story. Every single student here has bro-
ken something or threatened someone
because of the process of signing up for
classes.

‘Up until last Thursday, I’d never had
that nightmare situation. I would always
patronizingly tell the angered students
that they should’ve just paid more atten-
tion to the process and ‘read the emails
more carefully. I was pretty damn smug
sitting on my high horse.

That lasted until last Thursday
around 7:45 am. There was no high

horse, no patronizing voice, just lots of
swears and sarcastic remarks. If regis-
tration had been done with an XBOX
controller, I would’ve thrown it against
the wall and shattered it. I was furious
and had anyone with a patronizing tone
been in the vicinity, I might now be in
the building with barbed wire next to the
recycling center.

But, even that personal bad experi-
ence isn’t why I’m writing the stereo-
typical “screw registration” article.

I’m writing this article to protect
you, Registrar. I’m writing this because
I know you tried really hard to make this
as good a registration process as human-
ly possible. Hell, you tried harder than
Roethlisberger in a night club bathroom.
You overthrew the previous method and
really focused on improving your short-
comings. I see that, and I respect it.

That being said, last Thursday, I saw

I

mom using Facebook in the right way,
there have to be glaring issues with the
process. ‘

, So here are some tips for you, Regis-
trar. These aren’t for my beneﬁt because
I’m going to be a senior next year, and
you’ll be catering to me almost as much
as the alumni ofﬁce.

I do this for your own‘ safety. If
moms are incensed enough to use Face-
book correctly, then students will be
incensed enough to do something rash,
like complain to the Board of Trustees.
I don’t want that; you don’t either, so
try and get these issues straightened out
for your sake.

First and foremost, what is up with
the registration order?

Seniors make sense because they
need certain classes to be able to gradu-
ate, and for spring registration, about
half of them are signing up anyway, so

See, every student at this school has had at least one

registration nightmare story. Every single student

here has broken something or threatened someone

because of signing up for classes.

something that should scare you, the
Registrar, quite a bit.

On my News Feed on Facebook,
there was the usual string of “screw reg-
istration” status updates. Nothing new
here, but under one of the status updates,
a mom commented, “And as your parent
funding this, not so happy either!”

Registrar, I hope you are reading this
and understanding the magnitutde of

-this sentence. Moms don’t know how

to use Facebook in general, much less
how to comment on status updates. For
a mom to commit that kind of murder
on her son’s social life, she must be in-
censed. ,

If the registration process can get a

_ 1«—~— WASHINGTONANDLEEUNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
HEAD PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI_IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD IS
AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN"
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450"
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

DIANDRA S-PICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
STOCKTON BULLITT
HOLLY SUTHERS
JAYNA JOHNS
BARBARA KNIPP
FOWLER MARTENS
KATHERINE ROBERTS
CAMPBELL BURR
MIKE DECEMBRINO
LIZZ DYE
GABRIELLE ESPY
GRETCHEN FRITCHIE
PAIGEGANCE

ALI GREENBERG
STEPHEN PECK
KELLY MAE ROSS
PAT SMITH
VALAREE TANG
TYLER TOKARCZYK
DIANDRA SPICAK
STEELE BURROW
ROB GEORGE

MATT GOS‘SETT
KELLY LANE

JOE MORAVEC
EVAN SHARBER
ZABRIAWN SMITH
DAVE WILSON

, ;  .-L: = . 

you have no complaints there. That be-
ing said, ﬁrst-years were the worst sec-‘
ond pick since Hasheem Thabeet.

Look, rush is over. This is about the
time when ﬁrst years need to realize that
they are as relevant and meaningful as
the other two members of the Black-
Eyed Peas.

I mean, seriously, what is the freak-
ing point of giving ﬁrst-years a pick
above both the sophomores and juniors?
Obviously the kiddies will get into the
ﬁrst-year-only seminars because they
are the only ones allowed to take them
anyway.

By the end of their ﬁrst year, they’ve
had two full semesters to take “the in-
teresting class that you advertise to
parents to get their tuition money.” Let
them wait in line, like they are going to
have to do for the next two damn years.

And if you are using the fact that
freshmen have an early registration time
to try and attract potential students, you
aren’t smart enough to work at an aca-
demic institution. The kind of students
who are only attracted to beneﬁts for
freshmen aren’t capable of thinking in
the long term and therefore don’t have
the intellectual capacity to attend this
school.

Also, giving juniors the same reg-
istration time as the sophomores is a

Adieu, Andy Pettitte  

crime in its own right.

Don’t try and speak up, sophomores
because this is going to be your problem
in two months or so when registration
for Fall 2011 starts up. Juniors are now
worrying about getting internships and
will be worrying about getting jobs next
fall. They are the ones who need classes
they can show companies. So of course
it makes sense to put them last.

I wish I could listen to all the poten-
tial I-Bankers tell their Goldman Sachs
interviewers why they took “A Year in
Jazz: l957” instead of. .. well, anything
to do with I-Banking. Career Services,
shouldn’t this be a higher priority for
you? How is this not more important
that what color tie to wear to the inter-
view?

A second major problem with regis-
tration is its timing.

I realize that 7 a.m. is the only time
that everyone is free to have registra-
tion, and, you know what, if you re-
ally want to stick with that, you can.
However, if we students have to wake
up obnoxiously early (well, by college
standards) to register before going back
to bed, couldn’t you maybe be in the of-
ﬁce to help with troubleshooting?

I think this could be the biggest
problem with registration if it’s not
ﬁxed soon.

Most of the stories I have heard
about registration are individual case
problems. Someone’s correct password
was not recognized. Someone wasn’t
cleared for registration by the Business

'/ Oﬁice when he or she should’ve been.

Something is wrong with the server.
And so on. These are all fundamentally
unavoidable problems that can all be
ﬁxed with a call to the Registrar’s ofﬁce
and some simple ﬁxes.

However, when us students are do-
ing the registering and having these
problems at seven in the morning, the
Registrar is freaking closed.

Are you serious? What would hap-
pen to the Deans, campus security or
the Health Center if they decided they
didn’t feel like showing up to Tear
Night?

What happens to students who don’t
put in the extra couple of hours studying
for exams?

It is absolutely inexcusable for the
Registrar to not be open during prime
registration times. By the time the Reg-
istrar is open, most of the classes have
already been ﬁlled up and the negative
effects of having these little technical
glitches are exponentially ampliﬁed.

If the Registrar is set on having seven
in the morning be a registration time, I
think they can spend three or four early
mornings dedicated to helping students
with registration. Isn’t that their job?

Those were my main two issues
with the process. However, after asking
around campus for some other sugges-
tions, here are some other issues that
came up.

There seemed to be a ton of prob-
lems with having to see professors be-
forehand. First, I have heard numerous
stories of students having -to change
their entire schedule just to chase down
a professor to getpermission to take a
class the professor isn’t even currently
teaching.

Also, there are instances where the
professor has given permission to take
the class, yet there were still problems
registering. Why not have the profes-
sor approval period after registration? If
someone signs up for a class that they
cannot take, won’t this problem solve
itself after registration? It seemed like
the whole professor approval system
was a needless hurdle. _

There seemed to be an overabundance
of information with registration without
there being the simple method to regis-
ter that we used to have. Even though
we tend to be sweet when it comes to
book smarts, we W&L students are not
the brightest when it comes to street
smarts. So when you don’t have one
clear button to go and register for class-
es, many problems will arise. Likewise,
we are college students: we have much
better things to do than read numerous
registration-based emails. So when you
have three or four different emails that
are each a page in length, broadly de-
scribing the registration process, all the
details simply won’t be read and you
will have problems. This is the time for
everyone’s favorite: bullet points.

Finally, pay close attention to what
kinds of classes are ﬁlling up quickly
and which classes never get registered
for. Overall, the availability of solid
classes is getting better year by year,
but that doesn’t mean when I brought
this subject up to friends that lack of
quality classes wasn’t one of the top
complaints.

So, Registrar, please remember that
I don’t hate you, and in no way do I
blame you for repeatedly giving me ri-
diculously bad sign-uptimes for every
registration period, just like I’m sure the
entire student population doesn’t blame
you for giving them equally unfair reg-
istration times.

But I would very much appreciate
it if you seriously thought about these
suggestions. Not for my sake, but for
yours.

Patronizing enough?

Pat Smith recaps the brilliant career of the New York Yankee pitcher

By Pat Smith
5 TA F F w R I T E R

This past Friday was a‘ sad day for all
Yankee fans. The beloved Andy Pettitte
retired from the sport of baseball after
16 major league seasons.

He played all but three of his seasons
with the New York Yankees and boasts
extremely respectable career statistics.
His 240-138 (3.88 ERA) overall record
is one of the most impressive among all
starting pitchers, not to mention his 64
percent winning percentage.

As Pettitte enters into retirement,
his Hall of Fame status becomes a big
question.

Certainly, 240 wins is borderline.
But let’s face it, the 300-win club is

I no longer an attainable feat for starting

pitchers. j
His post-season success speaks for

itself(l9-10, 3.83 ERA). He also has 5

championship rings to show for it.

He would certainly get my vote into
the Hall of Fame, but of course, my
opinion is as relevant as players trying
in the NFL Pro Bowl.

As I have developed into a collegiate
pitcher, it was always great to study
some of the game’s great pitchers.

Being a lefty, watching Andy Pettitte
command the pitcher’s mound is noth-
ing short of impressive.

What set Andy Pettitte apart from
other lefties was his presence on th
mound. ‘

At all times he looked completely

calm and collected. He pounded the,

strike zone with pitches that move to
both sides of the plate and has managed
to fool hitters throughout his career by
changing speeds and getting hitters to
swing at bad pitches.

Probably the most impressive aspect
of Andy Pettitte’s game is his ability
hold a runner on base. No one attempts
to steal off of Andy because his pick-off
move is deadly. He mixes up his looks
and scares the living hell out of some
of the best base—stea1ers the MLB has
to offer.

Andy Pettitte is what experienced
baseball players like to call “a crafty
lefty.” He makes batters think to them-
selves, “How the hell did he just get me
out?”

He just does.

Well, not actually. It takes a lot of
hard work and a lot of fooling around
with different pitches. You don’t get to
the majors (let alone the New York Yan-
kees) without some effort.

This past season was one of Andy’s
best, despite it being cut short. He went
11-3 with a 3.28 ERA.

With the exception of Ubaldo Ji-
menez, Pettitte had one of the best starts
out of the gate to the 2010 season.

This past season I had the pleasure of
watching this lefty in the Bronx against

the Cleveland Indians.

Pettitte pitched a exceptionally crafty
lefty performance. Over the course of
seven innings he struck out ﬁve, walked
none and gave up only four hits.

Watching Andy rule the mound at I

this game was the opposite of watch-
ing the Black-Eyed Peas at the halftime
show.

Little did I know that this would be
the last time I would see him pitch in
person. I’m not crying right now, trust
me. .

Andy Pettitte, you will surely be
missed by many. Even though I feel like
you left me a season too early, you’re
still my favorite pitcher.

Now, if only Cliff Lee weren’t such
a cotton-headed—ninny-muggins (Elf
reference) and joined the Bronx Bomb-
ers, things might look a little better for
us in the rotation. At least we’re not as
bad as the Orioles pitching rotation.

On a completely random note: Does
anyone know why spring training is
very important? Because it gives the
Dominican players a chance to learn the
word, “renegotiate.” ‘

to‘

0

 

  

~   Take “me out

 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 3

 

opinions

toni

ght to a frat party

Columnist Ali Greenberg explains the complexities of the intricate psychology in choosing going-out ensembles

By Ali Greenberg
COLU M N I ST

lt’s Friday night and you have a ma-
jor problem~you have, like, nothing to
wear.

With each shot you take in your

relaxed but still really skinny.

Look at you! Now you look cool
and every girl in Graham-Lees thinks
you look totes adorbs. This may or may

to look sassy and ﬂirty if you want to
DFM, so that oversized top is going
to need a diplin the back, or maybe no
sides.

There are two types of girls: “cross-
body baggers” and those I like to call,
“Mensa.”

The latter are signiﬁcantly more

totes wearing pink panties!) and all of
a sudden you and your girls look like
Carrie & Co. FRESH! Tonight is going
to be so fun!

. dorm room, you ‘try on a different top not be because you hardcore and choose Flash—forward two hours. The toilet
and ask your friends which one gives are all wearing this to hold their Black- paper has run out, your friend is black-
youjust the right look. Oh wait, there is same thing. _ Most  you arejust trying to took Cute and berrys because they out, “Party in the USA.” is on repeat,
no drinking in the dorms... well, that’s So now you have ' love to text so much you’ve been spilled on no fewer than
awkward. the girls’ approval _ ptnesentablem but there are SO many issues getting that they must be six times and you dropped your phone

Most likely, you are just trying to but you still, most ' physically touching in the gin bucket.
look cute and presentable... but there likely, are looking to in the way  isjust S0 dﬁcultfor a  Some- (and subsequently It’s time to get on Traveller.
are so many issues getting in the way. hook up. dropping) their Back at the dorms, your buzz is gone
Life is just so difficult for a WASP Because this timeS_ phones at all times. and you realize that you left your black
sometimes. campus is just over- I’m going to as- North Face at the party

The ﬁrst of your dilemmas is how to ﬂowing with attrac— sume this is you and Good luck with that campus notice.
look presentable while still looking like tive and available move on to outer- My advice: ﬁnd solace in the fact that
you didn’t try at all. bachelors that are wear. at least you looked cute and get crack-

. To solve this issue, start with ei- over 5’8”. That way you are, you know, “edgy” You are almost out the door, but its ing on that “Need Numbers” Facebool/,<

ther skinny jeans or leggings and tuck
them in to Frye Boots. You know, your
two-hundred-dollar-going-out-boots-
that-you-don’t-mind-getting-dirty Frye
Boots.

Make sure to pair a very oversized
top with these bottoms so that you look

Oh wait, all the guys here are short...
well, that’s awkward. (From Stockton:
the men of Washington and Lee detest
this claim and furthermore wish the
women of this school weren’t so tall.)

Regardless, we all need play, so this
outﬁt has got to be hot. It is important

but not slutty.

Look in the mirror and assess. Do
you look presentable‘? Unoriginal? Ex-
pensive? v

Great, now you are almost ready to
go. But there is still an important issue
on which you must take a stand.

winter and you need a coat. Barbour,
leather or ﬂeece. Pick your poison and
then store it in the cabinet at Pole Three
as soon as you get there. H

Head to the trashcan and dip into a
ﬂuorescent cup of grain or pink panty
droppers (it’s so funny ‘cause you are

gI'OUp.

, Ridin’ Solo: only child syndrome  

     ,  , I , _  l 110 Southlefferson Street- Lexington, VA
" '   Closed Every Monday - Beer 8: Wine
. *SSpecia| Events Manager: CONCACAF (International ’ ‘érican Cuisine 540463-2002
°°°e"  f : Chlnese Buffet
* Retail Leadership Development Program: AT&T , . I g * _»  at A ERVING mmhmmmﬂ
U d t A I t W [K & D I  I it Bi‘eakfast~ Lunch~ Dinner T“"“"’y‘”""’”yD B f ”’:;’“-”- ‘3’”""'"‘-
* nentvriin na s: aer uno : i : innr e=-
g y p - I \l     Tuesda)/— Friday 4:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
* Corporate Internship Program: Abercrombie & Fitch ' : ' it A 4’ "la 3" “d
‘ _.Tuesday_Thursday:  _  All Day DIIIHCI‘ Buffet . 11:30 a.m. - 9:00p.m.
* Ministry Leader: A Christian Ministry in National Parks   I‘!  I d S t d ; 7AM _ 1'0pM ’ _ _ _
‘ ‘I  ‘A * ay an 3 ur ay Free Delivervl — Minimum $25
_ ' Sunday: 7AM - 3PM
* Emerging Leaders Summer Program: Ernst & Young Closed Mondays III-I-I
"0

By Campbell Burr
COLU MNIST

The day I dropped my sister off at
college was one of the saddest days of
my life.

I sobbed in front of Lee Chapel, half-
upset that she was leaving me and half-
jealous that she was going to college
when I was beginning the hardest year
of high school.

I cried the entire car ride home,
bawled during dinner, wept onimy walk
around the neighborhood, read through
teary eyes and cried myself to sleep. I
was about to live the next two years as
an only child.

Between tissues, a realization hit
me. My friends without siblings weren’t

she began texting me before lunch ask-
ing if I wanted one. Awesome.

2. Every meal/shopping trip revolved
around me: Ifl was in the mood for In-
dian food, we would have Indian food.
If we were going out to dinner, the only
question was, where did I want to eat?

Shopping trips that used to revolve
around my sister now consisted of my
mom watching metry on racks of dress-
es and skirts and telling me how cute I
looked. I could get

pencils) at each other.

4. If I wanted a weekend escape, I
had the option of visiting my sister at
college.

I may have taken advantage of this a
bit too often, considering that some of
her classmates mistook me for a trans-
fer student. ..

5. What does
mean?

Only children tend to have a harder

“being grounded "

she ever was). As long as I didn’t fail
out of school or get pregnant, I was
good to go.

6. 1 always rode shotgun.

Whenever my sister and I went out
with one of our parents, we raced to the
car to determine who would be riding in
the front passenger’s seat.

I no longer had to worry about
this—I had no competition. Dancing to
“Telephone” with my mom in the front

’ seat was a major

used to this.

3. More "me”
space: When my sis-
ter left, I decided to

My friends without siblings weren.’t miserable and

lonely; they got along just ﬁne. Within a few weeks,

improvement from
listening to some of
my sister’s whiny
country songs in the

After her sister left for college, Campbell had to adjust to life as the onlychild in her house... she loved it

8. Are you twins?

When my sister and I were in high
school together, we put on either the
exact same outﬁt or the same colors al-
most every day without planning it.

As an only child, I no longer had to
worry about either looking like a twin
or having to change two minutes before
leaving the house.

9. So Amuchtmore time on my hands. _

Having a sister is an extracurricular
activity—going on frozen yogurt runs,
sharing bits of gossip, and playing tricks
on each other takes a lot more time than
one might expect.

If I hadn’t been forced to drop this

miserable and lonely; they got along spread out. back. time commitment, I would have had

just ﬁne. Within a few weeks, I began to I reserved one I began ta understand  7. What was once trouble handling rigorous classes and

understand why... room for doing “our” shared car activities that I could actually acknowl-
homework, one was now “my " car. edge on my college applications.

I. Team Campbell: Now that I was
the only one at home, I had my parents’
full attention. This may sound like a
negative, but during the school week,
my parents’ full attention meant extra
pampering.

Say I was at school and had a head-
ache or felt tired. I would text my mom:
“DC?” She would respond almost" im-
mediately: “Yep! C u @ lunch.”

At 10:54, she would be waiting out-
side ofschool with a 7ll Super Big Gulp
ﬁlled with three-quarters Diet Coke and
a quarter of regular Coke—j ust the way
I like it. This became such a habit that

room for changing
clothes and a third
room for sleeping.
There was no sis-
ter there to complain that I was being
messy or selﬁsh.

When my sister was home, we ar-
gued over who would study in the
computer room because I worked most
productively there but could not focus
in the same room as her.

Every night we fought over who had

‘to move. Eventually, we had to put a

screen up between our desks so that we
could not throw stuﬂ° (mostly tape and

‘TIS THE SEASON FOR ]OB &
INTERNSHIP SEARCHES!

CHECK OUT THE OPPORTUNITIES

* Associate Consultant: Triage Consulting Group
* SPECTRUM Internship: Sony Pictures Entertainment

VISIT W&L IOBLINK FOR MORE DETAILS
AND HOW TO APPLY

HTTPS:llWLU-CSM.SYMPL|C|TY.'COM/STUDENTS

ii  ‘(ff (‘Carry Out Available
I; t It 5'» ‘i  ii: G0“Greek at Niko’s!‘

.Mt

 

time getting away with mischief be-
cause they are the sole focus of their
parents’ attention.

Fortunately, I wasn’t an only child—-
I was a younger sister receiving only-
child diva treatment.

My sister had already broken in our
parents. From then on, I would not be
the first to come home past curfew, have
a boyfriend or be sent to the principal’s
office for talking in class (actually, only

tLu,nch and Dinner Specials!

5 167! South Main Street
a » Lexington, VA
Phone: 540.464.9499
Fax: 540.464.1226

Ifl left a lacrosse
stick in the trunk, a
coffee mug in the
cup holder or, heav-
en forbid, a mud stain on the carpet, my
obsessively clean sister would be none
the wiser.

Another bonus to having my own car
was being able to control my schedule,
which was a big deal because my sister
was always late.

Freshman year, I came tardy to
my ﬁrst-period class so often that my
teacher asked if everything was okay at
home.

‘Tomi...

‘l3J§‘l§l

‘1’oi\lCi.,......t...

Japanese Steak House and

Sushi Bar

ﬂihggm Spggjgl
Dinnerfor Two — $29. 99 Shrimp or Chicken

‘ti: 3- sﬂ

3:30 pm. -10:00 p.m.

Nn lit-wwatlnu Required

Career Services

, ,  [illipok for menu at www.nikosgrill-cafe.com
.- '1 ‘I  »~-.

 

Now with

. FOUR
 V? BEDROOMS
& Huge Living Room g A g  AVAILABLE

 

GENERALS’
RETREAT 

APARTMENTS   ,

NOT Affiliated with Washington & Lee University

  
    
   
   
   
   
 

     

*Where girls and guys can actually live in the same apartment complex.

*Remember how git that was in the dorms? Can you say CO-ED? A

*Where you can walk home from the House or party. i ‘I
*Where you can actually go home between classes or before practice.

*Where you can get 20 more minute_s of s|eep_before leaving for class.

*Where you can live gar your friends without having to live gv_i;h_ them.

*Unless of course you want to live with them, which you can also do here. a
*Where cats and dogs play together. And the trash. watg. $1 interngare FREE. 4, _

"H".

   

., ‘-3;

T ownhome Style Apartments
On Nelson Street

NOW WITH 4-BR 2 BA UNITS

  
 

 

.9 1
OPEN HOUSE EVERY SVATIIJRDAY IN JANUARY FROM 12-4
\ COME CHECK us OUT
2 I ‘: .  A

THE BUILDING MANAGEMENT CD

54o-454-3673  i .  
ian@tbmcom.com“ .. . 

 

 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY‘8, 2011

THE RING-TUM PHI °

5

 
 

 

arts&|ife

  ‘ Getting to know the White Panda  

The men behind the masks and mash-ups talk about their roots, the music business and their future career plans
By Valaree Tang and Diandra Spicak .

STAFF WRITER & MANAGING EDITOR

with Gabrielle Espy

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER, WHITE PANDA ENTHUSIAST

Phi: How did you get started,

I how did you guys meet and how

did you get to where you are
now?

Evans: We met in second
grade, probably on the play-
ground or something, I don’t
know, it was a long time ago. We
got started with this current proj-
ect, let’s see... For me, you know,
it was just a hobby in college.
I’ve always been into music.
We’re both classically trained in
piano and we produced a rock
album in high school. I was a
fan of things like Girl Talk, so
you know... I just wanted to see
if I could do it and [it] turned out
[Griffith] was doing the exact
same thing.

Phi: How did you guys come
up with the name White Panda?

Evans: It was his [Grifﬁth’s]
idea. It was random. We were

‘ just brainstorming different types
* of things, shooting back things.

We thought it was catchy, and
everyone likes pandas, so...

Grifﬁth: We came up with
the name just because it was
catchy and we started sending
our music to bloggers and it
started picking up really quickly.
All of a sudden all of these fra-
ternities in colleges were kind
of like, “How much does it cost
to book you guys for shows?”
Tom and I were still in school,
so it was like “Whoah, we could
potentially go out and do some
shows? Let’s go out and build
our live show performances
around the name.” We’re called
White Panda, so let’s wear some
cool masks and get on stage and
go crazy. It’s kind of how we
evolved into what we are now.

Phi: What’s it like being
compared to other mash-up art-
ists like Girl Talk and Super
Mash Bros.? Is it a compliment?
Is it an insult?

Evans: I would say, at this
point, it’s sort of neither. Early
on, if someone mentioned us in
the same group as Girl Talk, it
was pretty cool. Because he’s
like an artist that you’re a big fan
of, and if. suddenly someone’s
putting you in the same catego-
ry, it feels pretty cool. I feel like
we’ve done enough at this point,
it’s obviously still cool to get re-

   
    
     
    
   
    
 

spect from people like that, but
that being said, We’re doing our
own tour now. Basically, Super
Mash Bros. are competition
for shows and we like to set
ourselves apart by doing more
energetic, visually crazier per-.
formances.

Phi: How are you crazier?

Evans: Running around
stage, jumping up and down,
getting on the mic a lot instead
of just standing around. We sort
of make an effort to differenti-
ate ourselves.

Griffith: We’re pandas!

Phi: What do you say to
people who say you’re not real
musical artists, because you’re
using other people’s work, and
[are] saying that you’re basi-
cally a “gloriﬁed DJ?”

Evans: In terms of the con-
tent of a release, I wouldn’t call
myself a musical artist. I think
that’s a fair point. I mean, we cer-
tainly have a musical ear. These
things just don’t put themselves
together. You can’t just take two
random songs, put them together,
and it just works. You’ve got to
ﬁnd songs with similar rhythms,
cadences and melodies, and just
stuff that ﬁts together that no one
else has tried before. And it’s not
that easy to do. We’re not com-
posing anything. I don’t think
that we ever try to assert that
we are. So, I.wouldn’t label us
musical artists. As far as glori-
ﬁed DJs, I would label us more
of producers than DJs, because
DJ s are out there spinning on the
vinyls and most of what we do
is done beforehand, producing
these tracks.

Phi: How did you come up
with the name “Procrast”?

Evans: This is actually a
question I don’t get very often.
Long before I ever expected this
to turn into anything, one of my
main means of procrastination
was making mash-ups, like, if
I didn’t want to study for inter-
views or midterms or whatever.
And I just thought, “Oh Procrast,
that’s cool.” I was actually going
to name my ﬁrst album “the Na-
tion,” so it would be “Procrast:
the Nation.” [laughs] I never
made that one public.

You guys are relatively
new to the scene. What’s it like
getting used to the fame and the
celebrity?

Evans: For the starters, when
the suits are on, We’re not really
that well-known. We don’t get
recognized in the street, which
is actually kind of nice. As far
as the shows themselves, you
know, it’s ﬂattering that people
know who you are and want to
meet you and take your picture
and get autographs and stuff. It’s
all relative, though. The parts
that are cool and shock us are
when something new happens.
The ﬁrst [time] I heard a track
of ours come on at a bar, now
that was cool. The ﬁrst time 1
actually did get recognized on
the street I was like “Oh wow,
that’s crazy.” Like, the ﬁrst time
someone sent us an email saying
that, “all my boyfriend wants
for Christmas is your autograph,
please sign one!” That was like
over a year ago, it’s like wow,
it’s pretty cool. So every time
something new happens it’s like,
wow, that’s pretty sweet. Our
friends also keep us down to
earth. Our friends don’t give a
shit about how famous we are.
Yeah, it’s Very humbling.

Phi: How do you make a liv-
ing if all of your music is free to
download online?

.  STEELE auanow / _iiead*hn¢u5gr‘afpne'r

   irt_isi.tisy',the White Panda; iaiidthelbandnl ‘ .
’he_.l?Iti ja‘§s.»(‘E()Wll’:,VVitI.l the White Pandaduo Tom:..
C before, their show, and gotjtto TlI€ei.tIlle:','_

Grifﬁth:

You guys. You guys
bringing us in to play shows.
That’s huge revenue. The music
industry is so ﬁip-ﬂopped right
now, with piracy and how easy
it is to get music. Artists really
make their money off of doing
shows and tours.

Phi: Do you ever run into
any legal issues?

Grifﬁth: No. Imean, that’s
a question that mash-up DJ s run
into all the time. But what we do
is sample, heavily. But, no, that
really hasn’t been a problem be-
cause we’re not trying to get it
on to iTunes. Like you said, you
can easily grab our music and
download it for free. For that
reason, no one has really come
down on us, yet. In fact, a lot
of artists have complimented us
for a lot of the stuff that we do.
And actually, a mash-up that we
did a couple months ago, their
manager approached us and ba-
sically complimented us on the
song and asked us to do an of-
ﬁcial produced remix that we’re
working on now.

Phi: What is your ultimate
goal? Where do you see your-

selves in the future?

Evans: I see us sort of seg-

  

Comic of the Week

CHRISTIAN RODEN / staff cartoonist
“T he following program of commercials will continue after a
brief check on the game. ”

way-
ing into

more production-heavy
music, like more of original pro-
ductions. Mash-ups. are great,
obviously. We love doing it and
we’re going to continue to do
it, but there’s sort of a ceiling.
You can’t headline Coachella as
a mash-up DJ. That’s obviously
an exaggeration, I don’t picture
myself headlining Coachella
any time soon. You know, with
the funding we have and the
time that we have, our knowl-
edge of these programs and the
equipment, [producing music] is
something to explore, because
with producing, really, the sky is
the limit.

Phi: Where have you been in
this last tour? And where are you
going next?

Grifﬁth: Well, it just got
started really. We were in Can-

ada last weekend, did a couple,

of shows in Ontario. Before
that, we were in North Carolina.
We’re in Oklahoma tomorrow
[Saturday, Feb. 5], in Dallas next
week. I think in the spring, like
between now and May, there’s
probably about 25 shows on the
books, and that could potentially
double.

Phi:
_Are you guys booked
for mostly college campuses?

Evans: Probably for the ma-  if

jority, yeah.

Phi: So, in ﬁve to 10 years,
where do you see yourselves?

Evans: That’s the money
question. I would love to see
us producing, but the music in-
dustry is pretty cutthroat. We’ve
made it in this one particular,
you know, niche, and if we try to
move out of it, we may or may
not be successful. It would be
awesome if we were, but if not,
we both have degrees from de-
cent universities.

‘gwéu '¢ Qeetawzcmt

PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN TOY CAFE

Located at

LEE III... TIIAIIEI. PLAZA

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu

' 0r Join usf0r_ one ofour ALL YOU CAN EATBuffets.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-10pm

Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 11pm—2am

Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am-11am
Daily Hot Country Bar12Noon -10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 10:30am-10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 North Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA
540-463-3478

Great food & i: great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

 

 

   

6 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

a rts &| ife 

  ' ' "G,,,h*o‘s'ﬁa 'n"dl e rvaory ’ 0

>353:-.‘.

um‘

..“\\

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011 '

    

It

   

 

_‘ Imus: ;.,,m_.reier.=«’vzaIz,».  .

STEELE BURROW/ head photographer

“I’orcl1ml bcrwoc11 a proud historic past
him

’ '\f-.’ ‘ ‘ '
9 ‘ i and an unknown re, one thing is
‘I 0 H { I l I l J  H I I B I I I IE for certain: 'lo<l21y this ‘cool small town’

bozlsts a Very cool little restzulrant witll

LAUNCH PARTY

Virginia Living 111:igazinc
Happy Valentines Day
Monday, February Ht}:

4 course Prix Fixe Menu
$55 per person
Wine Pairing $20 per person

l:irsl
Selection oi Ailisxlnlll Cheese Er Chorullerie For Two

l Sipeo ial "showing" of

Update Yam’/llbum Posters

highlighting the summer

house mnrlv lavmh vrar l<(‘15,])i(’l(l(‘(l x-cgotalalcs, mustard

Second
Potato l .ePl-c Soup
house cured pesnuolta. parsleg, <:urroLs

Local l‘risso Salad
lur<lons.soft lnilcxl lotdl quail egg. garlic ('n)I1lons,ChiVo5. sheirq
vanaa,1n~m»

( .
Builerlo (Iron ‘ c-ofSl1ort Rih
gnrlir‘ potatoes puI(‘O,(‘0)1ll'i root \'c8(‘tal'>l(‘s, gromolata, pan gravy

Senrerl Sm Sm] 0 as

The Recl Hen offers fine dining featuring
local, seasonal ingredients Tuesclag through
Saturclag evenings from 5 to 9.

«Exceptional wines, craft~l3rewetl beers,
specialty cocktails, (7 great coffee.
~Weel<night chefls specials from $16

—Come in early or late for appetizers or clessert.
—lVlontl1lg wine dinners

—l..ive Musicisometimes on Thursdays

—Private parties, catering.

internship and Work experiences
of your Peers. ’ 4

spicecl swccl poiatocs. l)russcl sprouts, hraisc al chcsknuis. cums brown
hutler saute. uaspr, ham

l{0astc(l Rocl<l)ritl3o Counn; Pork ln'n _ 11 E“ wa5h‘“8*°n Sheet
savory 0m1n.=,m1,m1(1;,.{; wilzl musl1romns,mI1sLarcl greens. garlic cream 464.4401
D reservations@recll1enlex.com
wssorl

(,:l'1L)(‘0lLIi.(’P(*d]'llli.lr$|lUt‘1ll.1lliilE‘ Culce www.ReclHenLexcom

tart <~l-mrri; saurx-, l>rul<‘(‘ marslirnal low

Check out what your classmates have A A
been doing with their summers. Listen    
to their experiences in journalism,     0 ‘ 4  
theater, PR, and more!
  Reﬁeshment: will be provided.

Wecllnesday,February9   A  " 4 i   if A
  2:00 - 3:00 p.m.     0           
Elrod Commons Llvmg Room   A FUN\    

\,v . " ./ 1%.

 

Career Services

 

YOU KNOW  U WX_NNA.‘...i
  - 0 EMAIL_1?H 0 :WLU.E1)U 

1

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011 THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

sports

&Lwins,thenfa|ls W&L swims to_  
impress inlnvlte

. Wrestling comes out strong in ﬁrst match, then falters

By Mike Decembrino
STAFF WRITER

Injuries proved to be a factor
yet again as the Washington and
Lee wrestling team split a pair
of matches in Allentown, Pa. on

' Saturday afternoon. The Gener-

als defeated the host Muhlen-
berg Mules 24-21 and then lost
to Ursinus College 43-6.

Junior Sam Campbell and
ﬁrst-year Dan Igel led the way
for the Generals as both record-
ed pins in the win over Muhlen-
berg. _The two wrestlers also re-
corded W&L‘s only wins in the
Ursinus match.

Assistant Coach Mike Ben-

_ nett believed the Generals had a

strong chance against Muhlen-
berg. Earlier this week he said,

_ “Muhlenberg has as many inju-

ries as we do, so if there’s any
shot at winning another match,
this one is it.”

This prediction held true as

1 Campbell’s pin ofMatt Parker at

I41 pounds along with Igel’s pin

, of Patrick Gibson at 165 pounds
; were the deciding factors. Both
' teams picked up a pair of forfeit

wins in the four matches not

i wrestled due to injuries. In fact,

the I25-pound weight class was

3 not even contested because both

teams had injuries.
Had Igel and Campbell not

won by pin, the Generals would

have lost the match because
Muhlenberg won three out of
the ﬁve matches wrestled. The
win over the Mules is W&L’s
ﬁrst Centennial Conference win
since the 2008-2009 season.

In the loss to Ursinus, inju-
ries dealt the Generals another
blow as Ursinus picked up ﬁve
forfeit wins. Andrew Corbett
sealed the deal for Ursinus with
a pin of W&L’s Brian Ross
at 165 pounds. Although Igel
moved up from I65 pounds to
174 pounds‘, he still managed to
pull out a 7-3 win against Wil-
liam Reick. Campbell‘s 3-2 win
over Elisha Gaylor came at the
I41-pound weight class.

Preparation during the week
has been difficult for the Gener-
als. Bennett said, “We‘ve lost
seven of our ten starters and
two-thirds of our roster to in-
jury. With only four or ﬁve guys
practicing daily, we are limited
in what we can do. Mental prep-
aration has been difﬁcult and the
intensity and energy in the prac-
tice room has taken a big hit."

Much of that intensity comes
from senior captain Keith J awor-
ski who has been sidelined with
an injury since Jan. 22. Despite
all these injuries, the Generals
continue to work hard in the
wrestling room. “We continue
to focus on being disciplined,
fundamentally sound wrestlers
that will step on the mat ready
for a ﬁght,” Bennett said.

The Centennial Conference

tournament will be held at W&L

on Feb. 26

Men compete individually in Virginia Tech Invitational

By Tyler Tokarczyk
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s swim team had their last
tune up before Bluegrass Moun-
tain Conference ﬁnals as they
travelled to Christiansburg this
weekend to take part in the Vir-
ginia Tech Invitational.

The -Invitational included
W&L, Virginia Tech, Georgia
Tech, UNC-Wilmington, James
Madison and VMI.

The t\vo-day meet included
stiff competition for the Gener-
als, swimming against ﬁve Divi-
sion I teams.

Junior Brian Sterling and
ﬁrst-year Justin Meyers were
the only two men to record a top
threeﬁnish on Saturday, the ﬁrst
day of competition. Sterling ﬁn-
ished second in the 100 ﬂy with
a time of 51.21. Meyers took
home third place in the 200 free
with a time of I :5l :45.

First-years Matt Hesser, and
Mark Faubion, and sophomore
Rick Sykes were the only other
Generals to advance to the ﬁ-
nals. All three placed ﬁfth in
their respective events: Hesser
in the I00 back, Faubion in the
100 breast and Sykes in the 50
ﬁ‘ee.'

You don't build a 200-year history of excellence in financial services

without learning a few things. Like how to recognize and celebrate
colleagues with exceptional qualities. And the importance of training and
developing them throughout their careers. We are proud to welcome the five
Washington and Lee students who will be joining us full-time this summer.
Congratulations to them on all their success.

j prnorgancorn/careers

An Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer M/F/D/V.
© 2011JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved. 

The importance of this meet
was not necessarily to earn top-
place ﬁnishes, according to ﬁrst-
year Brendan McGoldrick, but
to take advantage of this last
opportunity to impress coaches
before conferences. “It was re-
ally a tune-up for the conference
meet and to help the coaches
make some decisions on who

will be on the conference scor-.

ing team,” he said.

Not all members of the team
will be able to be a part of the
scoring team at ‘conferences, so
for ﬁrst-years like McGoldrick,
it was their last opportunity to
prove to coaches they should be
on the roster.

Since the Generals were
treating the meet as a tune-up,
each swimmer only competed in
the one or two events they will
compete in at conferences. This
is so they can begin to build con-
ﬁdence in their best event and
ultimately perform their best at
conferences.

The team has also begun ta-
pering for conferences. All sea-
son long the team trains as hard
as possible to build up strength
and endurance. Once nearing

the end of the season they be-
gin to prepare for conferences
by tapering. Tapering involves
less "intense practices, ultimate-
ly ﬁnding a healthy medium
between resting the body and
maintaining the strength and
endurance they have worked all
season to obtain.

The Generals hope to have
a strong showing in a couple
weeks at the BGMC ﬁnals, Feb.
17 to 19.

Stephanie Brown

Katherine Fenwick

Marissa Mann

Stephen Randall

Ines Tovo

JP Morgan

   

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011 8 - THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

FRI

9

 

   

Hot shot downs W&L   

     
    

WED

 

Tuuns

 

in the numbers  
1 1 1 million

A_ new record was set as estimates state that this many people tuned

in to watch Super Bowl XLV on Sunday, more than any other television

program in history. The previous record was set by 2008's Super Bowl,
and the record before that, held an astonishing 27 years, was

the season finale of M-A-S—H.

13

With their 31-25 win over the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday, the Green
Bay Packers now have this many NFL championships, more than any

other franchise. Nine of these came in the pre-Super Bowl Era.

24

- The Cleveland Cavaliers have now set a single—season NBA record
after suffering this many consecutive losses. The record-breaking loss

came courtesy of the Portland Trailblazers, 111-105.

24

The Ohio State Buckeyes basketball team has won this many
consecutive games this season and remain the only unbeaten team) in

the league. They beat #20 Michigan 82-69 on Sunday.

365

A Belgian man, Stefan Engles, set a new record after he ran a
complete marathon every single day for this many consecutive days.
He ran in seven different countries and covered just short of 10,000

miles. The previous record was 52 race days in a row.

soapbox

“I always look for challenges. The challenge goes
to repeating. We’ve got one, so now what? Let’s
go get another one.”

Aaron Rodgers, Greenbay Packers quarterback, remarkin on his and
his team’s goals for the upcoming season. He said this r ght before
accepting the trophy and car awarded to him as the Super Bowl MVP.
courtesy of espn.com.

“Theyplayed on the same turf that we played on.
We're not in the business of making excuses. We
won’t do it. Next question.” A

When asked about whether or not the turf played a role In the Plttsburg
Steelers’ loss on Sunday, Head Steelers Coach Mike Tomlln gave this
response. He maintained a similar attitude throughout his post-game
press conference, surprising for such a young coach. Courtesy of
Yahoo! Sports.

the game 22 seconds later on a layup
by senior forward Brandon Braxton and
never looked back.

Despite RMC’s 57 percent shooting,
W&L hung around for most of the first
period and was only down by 5 at half-
time.

The second period was another story.
A bucket by junior forward Jon Guest
brought the Generals to within three at
37-34 with 16 minutes left, but things un-
raveled quickly. The Yellow Jackets went

By Gretchen Fritchie
STAFF WRITER

Senior guard Allie Long (Hastings-
on-Hudson, N.Y./Hastings) rained threes
against the Hollins women’s basketball

team Tuesday night, leading Washington '

and Lee to an 82-50 victory over Hollins
in the Warner Center.

Following an easy win over Emory
& Henry on Saturday, the Generals kept
their intensity up for a huge win,

“We came into the game knowing we
needed to make a great team effort with
multiple people scoring and team defense.
I think we did both of these things,” said
Long. ’

The Generals (13-5, 9-4) began their
lead with a three-point shot by Kari Ann
Pfannenstein (Littleton, Colo./Heritage)
and did not relinquish for the rest of the
game. Their largest lead was by 41 points
in the second halfwith 8:33 left to go.
At the end of the game, W&L shot
a remarkable 42.9 percent, while Hollins
only shot 35.4.percent and allowed.2l

bests. Adkins and sophomore forward JD
Ey also chipped in seven points apiece.
Although they had a much better ef-
fort last Tuesday, the Generals also lost
that contest by a score of 68-60 to Ran-
dolph. The WildCats, who have also
received votes for the national top—25
rankings, jumped out to a quick 16-2 lead
from which W&L could not recover.
Randolph did their best to let the Gen-
erals back in the game by missing 13 free
throws and getting outrebounded 37-29,

turnovers. The Generals scored 28 total
points off of turnovers while their oppo-
nent only achieved 6.

Allie Long shot a stand-out of 21
points for the Generals, but was only one
of the four Generals who shot over 10
digits for the team. Junior Becca Bolton
(Pittsboro, N.C./Chatham Central) shot
an impressive 15 points, while junior
Pfannenstein added 11 shots-made to the
score and senior center Felice Herman
(Fairﬁeld, Pa./Delone Catholic) contrib-
uted l0 points.

Tamara Phillips (Roanoke, Va./Lord
Botetourt) was the top scorer in this
game for Hollins, contributing 12 points.
Jasmine Greene (Hampton, Va./Tabb),
the team’s overall top scorer was held
to four points, and Krystie White (Princ-
eton, WV/Princeton Senior) tacked on
six points, but the team was ultimately
unsuccessful in their conquest.

Remarking on their opponents play,

W&L rolls Hollins, 82-50

Strong defense coupled with accurate shooting gives Generals boost

Allie Long said, “we were able to shut
down their two main scorers defensively
which really helped us because Hollins
doesn’t play as well without those two
players leading the team.”

This is the women’s basketball team’s
14th consecutive win against Hollins
University, and was no let-down for the
Generals’ fans. Long said she thinks that
their win will keep their momentum up
for their next two games this weekend.

The team will return to action on Fri-
day at 7 pm at Roanoke College.

 

t'\‘W““‘

\si‘»5‘§‘i\\“‘“‘

$0‘: ‘

Prior to their rough loss on Saturday, the men’s team fell in a close match to Randoph
College, 68-60. The Wildcats jumped out to a quick 16-2 lead, and the Generals could

. never recover.

Monday brought back the taste of victory, as the team took down Greensboro College
with an exciting, come—from-behind, 82-76 win. The Generals were able to recover from a
19-point first-half deficit to pull out the game.

icollege last Friday, the Ge
take’ overthe -0 "  an i

The women suffered two losses -following their wln_o_ver_ Holli.ns.~

ai WG-9 *

la  ca  kelp

    

id

Men is basketball team was no match for strong-shooting Randolph-Macon
gaskggbaﬂireertsborc Guilford "dgewat A
7 DJ“ 7 p_m_ 2 p.m By Stephen Peck
vs STAFF WRITER
t
wdmenvs Rand0|Dh- Guﬁford l1l:ndolph—Macon1’1s Dannyj Jones on a 35-; run to close oi]i(t the game and but 60 percent shooting in the first half
Basketbal Macon cou not miss. Was ington an Lee, on cementt eir nationa ran ing. and 19 W&L turnovers sealed the deal.

i 7 p.m. 7 p'm' the other hand, could seemingly do noth- “When you let yourself slip mental- Ey netted 11 points and eight re-

ing but miss. ly, good teams capitalize,” Adkins said bounds to lead the Generals; Junior guard

Jones poured in 21 points and was a about the second half struggles. “That’s Kyle Bond and freshman guard Kevin ’
per ect rom e e o y a e eac .
M°"'3 f 8-8 f th ﬁ ld f r RMC and what the did.” Gill dd d 10 h

ismmmlng the W&L men’s basketball team posted W&L made just six of 25 ﬁeld goal at- Sophomore guard Colton Hunt logged
_ their worst shooting performance of the tempts in the second period (24 percent) 18 points and nine rebounds for Randolph

‘ » season en route to a 72-41 loss on Satur- and shot just 33.3 percent for the game, a while junior forward Derrick Woods-

ODAC ODAC ODAC . . .
1 day afternoon at Crenshaw Gymnasium. season low. The Generals usually thrive Morrow added 16 points.
w°'"°" 3 champion Champion champion . . . . .

swimming] W&L is now l2-8 overall, but just 5-7 on their long-range shooting, which was W&L only has ﬁve regular season
TBA TBA TBA in ODAC play. also off on Saturday as they made only games remaining before the conference

Lafayette The grueling ODAC conference one of 11 tries from three-point land. tournament. According to Adkins, every

Men's Rid schedule has taken its toll on the Gener— Adkins said W&L got “a little stag- one of them is important.

Tﬁgfda wlnf; als. They have ‘now lost three games in a nant” on offense and credited the Yellow “These next few games are crucial
Games row and six of their last eight contests. Jackets for playing stout defense. and will be a big test of our toughness as

L f tt Three of those games were against teams “But we were also getting some good a team. How we play and respond over

woman’; am: 6 ranked in the Division 111 top 25, includ- looks and just not making them,” he this next stretch will show a lot about the .
T|'3¢k 3| e’ ing Randolph-Macon. said. team,” Adkins said.
Fwd w'"t°' “We are a young team in a phenom- R—MC senior forward Danny Jones Ey was optimistic that the Generals
Games enal conference and 1 think we’ve lost had no such shooting troubles, as he was would get back on track.
Bridgewat3' some focus of what we’re doing,” sopho- a perfect 8-8 from the ﬂoor. He came “We are ready to have some great
Rldlng IHSA more, guard JeremyhAdkin: said?“ of thlel pff thehbench fog thefJac§pts and still practicesitjiiis week aéidlget back to play;
I “at, I team s recent roug patc . e W] it up t e score s eet or points, six ing toug e ense an p aying as ateam,
ml ona bounce back.” rebounds, two assists and a block. His he said. “We are determined to get things
at RMC is now 19-3 overall, with an fellow bench-mates outscored the W&L turned around.”_
wmsmng Apmentlce, ikrlnpressive hll-é recorld (ijndthﬁ: OD:\C. reserves 41-l6.h I f B 12 . "llghe genlecralds Cre1s1umefWedr';esday
sch I owever, t e enera s 1 t emse ves ones got e p rom raxton’s mg t at ui or o ege or a p.m.
1p::_ no favors against the llth-ranked Yellow points and five rebounds and 10 points contest.
Jackets, as they shot a season low 33.3 from junior guard Calvin Croskey.
at percent from the floor. A lone bright spot in the game for Q.
Baseball 3'°°"5b°'° A jumper by Adkins gave W&L a W&L was freshman forward Drew Kim-
5:30 D-m- quick 2-0 lead that would also prove to berly. He led the Generals with seven
be their only lead of the night. RMC tied points and eight rebounds, both career

 

