Arc In
378- 73*;
R552
V. /l‘l"'
9, :w- /6

»~ I
5.. “ (4--

[Baseball is “bipolar”... Tennis is
‘      -“b i-winning.”

Do the frosh know what’s up?

Sixty‘-seven first-year vvomen rate your fraternities. I

SPORTS / pages 9 &1J. OPINIONS / page 4

WASHINGTON AND LEI: UNIVERSITY

  THE RING-TUM PHI.

5,!‘ THE STUDENTS AIID FDFI THE SIUDEIIIS SIHCE1-597lVOLUMECXIV,NUMBER14

Café credit returns for students  

MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011’

Meal Plan Equivalency system gives students who miss dinner in the Marketplace credit to eat in Cafe 77

By Kelsy Mccraw
STAFF WRITER

Students
who m1s.s
dmner will
once a a1n
get ere 1t to-

wards meals
at Cafe ‘7 7 .

As of 7 p.m. Sunday, students with
a Marketplace meal plan will receive
$5.85 worth of credit in Cafe ‘77 should
they miss the cut-off time in D-Hall.

Before this academic school year, this
Meal Plan Equivalency (MPE) system
was the norm. During the 2008-2009
school year, students received $5.25 of
credit if they missed D-Hall dinner, and
$5.50 for the 2009-2010_school year.

Beginning this fall, instead of the
MPE system, Dining Services increased
student’s food debit from the $50 of
2009-20l0 to $175.

Assistant Director of Cafe’ ’77, Den-
nis Fowler said that the decision was
based on student responses in their an-
nual Dining Services survey.

“We picked up that...[students]
would like to use their ﬂex dollars, you

know, have a choice where and when to
use them and at various units,” he said.

To reach the $ I 75 ﬁgure, Fowler says
that Auxiliary Services averaged the
amount of money each student account
had spent in the Co-Op/Cafe’ ’77 over a
previous term. _ 5

However, concerns from students to-
wards the end of fall term suggest that
this ﬁgure may not have been enough.
Fowler said the change, which mostly
affects ﬁrst-year students and RA’s, be-
gan to be an issue towards the end of fall
term when students began running out
of food debit.

Sophomore Executive Committee
Representative Jack Apgar set up an EC
taskforce at the beginning of the aca-
demic year to work with students and
Fowler to address any Dining Services
problems.

According to Apgar, student-athletes
brought this speciﬁc issue to light when
they ﬁequently missed D-Hall dinner
for sports practices. These students ran
out of food debit ﬁrst and were left with-
out any means for dinner.

Apgar worked with students, Fowl-
er, Associate Athletic Director Shana
Levine and Field Hockey Coach Wendy
Orrison to obtain the MPE system only
for athletes in the winter. However, Ap-
gar and Fowler said they think extend-
ing the MPE system to the entire student

body is a good idea.

Fowler said that the MPE system
should solve the issue of students run-
ning out offood debit and not being able
to get dinner. ~

“You won’t just run out of ﬂex dol-
lars, you can use them all because the
meal plans reset each week,” he said.

Students will be able to voice their
opiiiions about which dining plan they
like better in the Dining Services an-
nual survey in the ﬁrst week of April.
But even if students decide they like the
MPE best, Fowler said they should not
expect the same amount «of money for
the MPE.

Fowler set the $5.85 amount for
MPE in the fall for athletes, and admits
that the amount might ‘be a little high.
He says that, in the past, the ﬁgure was
calculated over the summer. However,
the time-crunch, larger athlete appetite
and smaller amount of student-athletes
versus the entire ﬁrst-year class inclined
him to give them a little more.

Fowler says he will keep the $5.85
for this year because the computer sys-
tem that allocates students’ meal plans
via their swipe card can only be set to
one dollar amount. '

“lt’s already in place, it’s set, and I
don’t want to change that. It is up there
a little bit. and we’ve already issued the
extra ﬂex dollars for this term,” he said.

“Now, next year, I really can’t tell you

for sure at this point what either would

be.”

Fowler says that calculating these
ﬁgures is a very intricate process that
looks at myriad of factors.

While a dinner in the Marketplace
costs $9.63, students receive less money
to spend in Cafe ’77 on the MPE.

Using last year’s $5.50 credit, there
is a $4.13 difference in the two amounts.
This is the amount of money that the
Marketplace needs to pay their ﬁxed
costs.

Fowler said the Marketplace’s ﬁxed
costs include the price of the ﬁxed
amount of food that they prepare each
night and the price of labor to prepare
and serve that food. The $5.50 that the
student receives in the MPE represents
the amount of money the Marketplace
needs to pay their variable costs (those
dependent on the number of students
who eat at each meal).

Ifa student opts to use his or her MPE
instead of meal in the Dining Hall, that
$5.50 is credited to Cafe’ ’77. This din-
ing unit has fewer ﬁxed costs because
they make their meals by the order. So,
the $5.50 covers their variable costs (the
price of the meal prepared), their ﬁxed
costs (the price of labor in Cafe ’77),
and their proﬁt margin. ‘

Fowler could not comment on the

amount of proﬁt made by Dining Ser-
vices on one meal.

The Marketplace and Cafe’ ’77 are
two different entities that operate sepa-
rately. The Marketplace operates as part
of the Room and Board of the Univer-
sity. Cafe’ ’77 operates as a for-proﬁt re-
tail unit. Since the W&L is a non-proﬁt
university, the Marketplace only needs
enough money to offset its costs.

To calculate the ﬁgure at which
Fowler sets the MPE, he must look at
the ﬁxed and variable costs of each din-
ing unit each year, and determine what
dollar amount is needed to keep both
operational.

According to Fowler, the MPE and
food debit plan cost the same amount.

“It doesn’t really make any differ-
ence to us one way or the other. I mean,
it wasn’t set up as a big ﬁnancial gap.
That wasn’t the issue we were trying to
answer,” he said.

The yearlong Marketplace meal plan
with the MPE cost $5125 in 2009-2010.
The same meal plan with increased food
debit cost $5250 for this academic year.
Fowler said the $I25 is not reﬂective of
the $125 increase in food debit, but is
reﬂective of the natural inﬂation of food
prices.

Stable comes to W&L computers

ITS says virtual desktop system has great potential but many students are still uncomfortable with the change

By Kelly Mae Ross
STAFF WRITER

American Saddlebred, Morgan and
American Paint~these are the options
that students have to choose from after
they sign in to one ofthe lab computers
on the I00-level ofthe library.

These three horse-named options

represent three different virtual desktops-

that students can access through a soft-
ware program called The Stable that ITS
has been designing and testing for over
a year.

The Stable virtual desktop allows
faculty, staff and students access to soft-
ware programs, printers and the W&L
network storage drives, such as the L
drive and H drive, from anywhere on or
off campus. A connection is madevia
the Internet from any computer with The
Stable installed on it to a central data‘

hub located in the ITS ofﬁces.

According to an article published in a
recent employee newsletter, The Stable
includes three different virtual desk-
tops:

I. Adobe software, such as Pho-
toshop, Illustrator, Fireworks and In-
Design, running on Windows 7, on the
“American Paint” desktop.

2. Software most commonly used
at W&L, including Microsoft Office,
Outlook, as well as discipline-speciﬁc
software such as Stata, SPSS, ArtStor
and various politics-related software, all
running on Windows 7, on the “Ameri-
can Saddlebred” desktop.

3. Science and math-related soft-
ware, such as Maple, Matlab and Arc-
GIS, running on Windows XP, on the
“Morgan” desktop.

Students can access The Stable

through certain computers on
campus, but they

can also access it through their own
computers by going to thestable.wlu.edu
and signing in with their university login
information.

ITS Director Jeff Overholtzer said
that the software that students need to
complete their assignments in many
modern-day classes are costly, leaving
many students with no option but to do
their work in one ofthe computer labs
scattered about campus.

“I can’t think of a discipline that
doesn’t have discipline-speciﬁc soft-
ware,” said Overholtzer. “[And] people
don’t want to be tethered by physical de-
vices like labs" K

This is where The Stable comes into
play. This new software allows students
to access almost any program that they
would ﬁnd on a computer located in a
lab on campus from wherever they de-
sire.

There are some limitations to the soft-
ware, however. The speed of programs

that consume a lot ofdata resourc-
es, particularly those

or video, is not as
fast as it would be
on an on-campus
computer.

“It can be a little
not smooth,” said
Overholtzer as‘ he
watched a jerky You-

Tube video via an In-
ternet connection es-
tablished through the
American Paint virtual
desktop.

 .. that deal with audio

Every fall, members of ITS give a
presentation to the EC regarding any big
changes that were made to the technolo-
gy systems on campus over the summer.
Since this falls presentation, the EC has
been voicing concerns over the student-
friendliness ofThe Stable to ITS.

Steele Burrow_ is the EC liaison to
ITS, and he has been meeting regularly
with Overholtzer to discuss waysThe

‘Stable can be improved. Burrow said
that the EC understands that it is im-
portant for students to do their job and
do well in their classes, and he and the
other members do not want to have this
new computer system stand in the way
of that.

Burrow has proposed several chang-
es to The Stable’s interface that would
make it more intuitive for students, in-
cluding having instructions of how to
navigate The Stable right on the login
page, and making printing capabilities in
The Stable easier to access. In response
to student feedback, a “printers” folder
was recently added to The Stable’s desk-
tops.

Many students say they do not feel
comfortable using The Stable because
they have no idea what it is. One day
students had standard Windows desk-
tops, and the next day they had Ameri-
can Paints and Saddlebreds.

The sudden advent of The Stable is
a frustration for students who are look-
ing to just quickly perform some quick
task. Burrow said he feels that students
might not be as receptive to something
“when they feel like it is being forced
upon them too much.”

While this change to The Stable vir-
tual desktop seems to have a lot of po-
tential for students, it is a change that
will require a bit oflearning and research
on their part. There are easy-to-access

resources that students can use to help

them learn how to navigate The Stable’s
interface and effectively use this new
tool that is available to them.

Jina Park. who works at the help desk
in the library and frequently ﬁelds ques-
tions about The Stable from students,
said that she believes the most useful
tool available to students who want to
learn about The Stable is the video tu-
torial that can be accessed through the
ITS website. The ITS website is also
home to a Q&A style help guide called
the “Knowledge Base" that contains a
wealth ofinformation about The Stable.

Ifstudents still have further questions,
they also have the option of calling the
help desk and speaking with someone
who has received some training on how
to use The Stable, such as Park.

Even with the existence ofall ofthese
help resources, Burrow said the EC will
continue to voice its concerns, as well
as any concerns it hears from students,
related to The Stable.

2

 

- THE RING-TUM PHI '

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

MAR 15,2011

 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 14,2011

   
 
 

 

By Eleanor Kennedy

NEWS EDITOR

Provost'June Aprille knows a thing
or two about being a good boss.

Aprille, who is retiring at the end of
this school year, served as provost at
University of Richmond from 2001 to
2007. While there, Aprille hired a new

_dean of the school of leadership studies:

Ken Ruscio.
A few years later, Ruscio, now presi-

  

PHOTO COURTESOY OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Bysage Um
STAFF WRITER

A dozen ﬁrst-year female students
reported ‘various stolen personal belong-
ings including jackets, shoes, jewelry,
and cash from their dormitory rooms on
Friday, March 4.

This mass theft seems to have tar-
geted speciﬁc ﬁrst-year women and par-
ticularly expensive personal items like
Tory Burch ﬂats, Burberry jackets and
Barbour coats. The stolen items added

... 1. .;

7

By Kelsy Mccraw
STAFF WRITER

The election process for ofﬁcer po-
sitions on the Executive Committee
and Student Judicial Council began this
week.

On Sunday March 13th, a meeting
was held for those interested in running
for the positions. The positions avail-
able on the Executive Committee are
President, Vice President and Secretary.
Those for the Student Judicial Council
are Chair and Secretary.

Students at the meetings received
a petition for candidacy to be signed
by 150 students. The petitions must be
completed and returned to the current
EC and SJC by Tuesday, March 15 at 5

 

dent of Washington and Lee, held a
nationwide search for a new provost.
Aprille jumped at the chance.

“I was so‘ impressed with the beauty
of the campus, the spirit of the campus
and the people there,” Aprille said of her
ﬁrst visit to Lexington.

According to Aprille, the provost of
a university is “the leader of the entire
academic mission.” In her four years at
W&L she has spearheaded several new
initiatives including the new undergrad-
uate spring term and revisions to the
third year program at the law school.

Aprille said that the helpful and sup-
portive staff and faculty at W&L made
these new programs much easier.

“I was so impressed with the cooper-
ative spirit of the faculty,” Aprille said,
“l’ve never seen anything like that.”

W&L’s alumni have also made sev-
eral positive contributions to Aprille’s
efforts. According to Aprille, it is unusu-
al for alumni to be so committed to the

No suspects

up to between $600 and $1000 per per-
son.

While the W&L public safety and the
Lexington Police are involved with the
investigation, there are currently no sus-
pects. According to Director of Public
Safety Mike Young, the theft occurred
in a short period of time at night and no
one reported seeing anything. i

The women of the thefts were report-

 

PM.

The following students were at the
meeting to receive a petition for the EC:

For President of the EC: Austin
Branstetter ’l2 and Scott McClintock
’l2

For Vice President of the EC: Wil-
liam Underwood ’09 & ‘l2L

For Secretary of the EC: Trey Hatch-
ery,‘l4 '

McClintock currently holds the Sec-
retary position for the EC. Branstetter
and Hatcher are current representatives
for'their respective years.

All ofthe EC candidates could not be
reached by press time to fairly publish

“She has a quick mind, a good sense of humor, a

commitment to fairness and an uncommon amount of

common sense. I can’t imagaine a better set of quali-

ties for a university administrator. ”

BOB STRONG, Associate Provost

academic mission ofa univeristy.

“The alumni of W&L are extraordi-
nary in their devotion,” Aprille said.

In addition to all her academic areas
of power, Aprille said there is one issue
that she likes to joke is the “most sig-
niﬁcant” part of her job. As many stu-
dents may remember from last year’s
snow-pocalyptic winter, the provost is
in charge of deciding whether or not to
cancel school.

“There’s a lot of factors that go in,”
Aprille said. The provost has to deter-

mine the best way to protect the safety
of students, faculty and staff without
compromising the school’s goals, she
said. ‘

In about three months, Aprille,won’t
have to worry about those tough deci-
sions anymore. She plans to move up
to New Hampshire after her retirement
where she will paint, ﬂy ﬁsh and “take a
breath and reflect.”

Aprille said her age is one factor in
her decision to retire. She’ll be turning
66 this year, and she said she wanted to

in campus t

ed to be from the same sorority. None
were in their rooms during the time
of the crime because of an initiation
sleepover taking place that night.

Alex Shabo, a Resident Advisor of
Graham-Lees Hall, said that a ﬁre alarm
was pulled from the ﬁrst ﬁoor of Graham-
Lees around I a.m. that night. While this
could have been a coincidence, it could
have given the thief time to roam around

ca

their platform information.

The following students were at the
meeting to receive a petition to run for
the SJC:

For Chair of the SJC: Tim McAleen-
an,‘ 12 I

For Secretary of the SJC: Eric Per-
kins-‘ 13

McAleenan and Perkins are cur-
rent representatives for their respective
years.

McAleenan said one of his goals is to
do away with constructive possession,
which implicates students for being in
the same room as others who are engag-
ing in illegal activities.

the dormitory while everyone evacuated
and stood outside, Shabo said.

Resident Advisor SoRelle Peat said
she thinks the thefts may have started
out as a prank.

“I think it was someone trying to be
funny, taking the same coats and the
same shoes,” said SoRelle Peat, another
Resident Advisor. '

Young said if the guilty party came

  :Adi6sApri|Ie! Provost to retire

retire while she could still enjoyed re-
tired life. .

“I wanted to be well enough to en-
joy someiof these outdoor activities,”
Aprille said. '

Associate Provost Bob Strong will be
stepping in as provost for the 20l.l—12
school year. Ruscio will conduct a na-
tionwide search the next year to perma-
nently ﬁll Aprille’s spot.

Strong said Aprille is a truly impres-
sive and effective administrator. I

“She has a quick mind, a good sense
of humor, a commitment to‘ fairness,
and an uncommon amount of common
sense,” Strong said, “I can’t imagine a
better set of qualities for a university ad-
ministrator.”

efts

forward and returned the items there
would be room for negotiation, but
stealing is an Honor Violation.

“I hope it’s not a prank gone bad,”
Young said. “If it was, people still need
to come forward and take responsibil-
ity.”

  announced

“The ideas of justice in the U.S.
hinges on you have to break a law to be
guilty, not just being around irrespon-
sible people,” McAleenan said. “The
people who are irresponsible should be
the one’s getting punished.”

McAleenan said he also wants to
move the SJC towards using more dis-
cretion with cases and away from using
“blanket verdicts.”

“I want to show that we can maintain
our sense of honor while giving students
the beneﬁt of the doubt,” he said.

Perkins did not attend the meeting,
but sent prior word indicating his inten-
tion to run. In an email, he deﬁned his

~.

Letters author speaks at

By Chelsea Stevenson
STAFF WRITER

“Letters are personal histories,” said
Pamela Newkirk, editor of Letters from
Black America. Newki,rk’s book is a
compilation of letters that address the
coverage of Black America in the me-
dia—something that continues to be an
issue today.

Newkirk discussed the research for
the book with members of the W&L
community, during a lecture in Stack-
house last week. She said her favorite
letters in the book are letters from Abra-
ham Lincoln, W.E.B. Du Bois and sev-
eral more from slaves.

Sophomore Colin Elliot said the vari-
ation in which each letter was addressed
to very personal and unique.

“Each account offered a clear picture
of the turmoil each writer had to under-
go, an aspect highlighted by the personal

Pick out yo
theme 1s

    

pain and underlying hope present in each
letter,” said Elliot.

Although only 200 of the letters she
researched were from slaves, she re-
ceived hundreds of letters as a result of
her public call. Her

alternative formsof communication and
the length of letters,” Tokarczyk said.
“The older letters she read were longer.
and ﬁlled with emotion and beautiful
prose.”

sociations and military groups, focused
on romance, family, war and social jus-
tice—themes that are common in the
media today.

Letters from Black America has al-
ready been made into
a play. Newkirk said

efforts to advertise
her research through
radio shows and ads
led her to thousands
of letters in attics that
owners didn’t even

know they had.

Jun” TY’? each letter.
Tokarczyk said
Newkirk’s discus-

sion on the length of
the letters was very
intriguing.
“She talked about the ties between

6

“Each account oﬂered a clear picture of the turmoil
each writer to undergo, an aspect highlighted by

the personal pain and underlying hope presenent in

Colin Elliot, sophomore

Each letter not only varied in length
but the themes in the letters, from as-

it was great to see the
actors on stage.
Aside from Letters
From Black America,
Newkirk is a fellow
at the Nation Institute
and ‘a ‘former daily
journalist. Currently,
she is a professor of
journalism at New
York University. She
directs the Urban Journalism Workshop
at NYU. Also in New York, Newkirk

stance on the judicial system as follows:
“To always try to do what’s best for the
university and its students.”

While the meeting was mandatory
for those interested in running, students
who could not attend the meeting can
still run by contacting John Ehrhardt.

  
 
 

won the New York Association of Black
Journalists International Reporting Prize
and was a part of a team that won the
Pulitzer Prize for Spot News at New
York Newsday in the l990’s. Her career
in journalism has led her to numerous
publications, including The New York
Times, The Washington Post, Colum-
bia Journalism Review and The Nation.

Also prior to the compilation of letters, <

Newkirk authored Within the Veil Black
Journalists.

Her visit was sponsored by the Fish-
back Program for Visiting Writers and
the Department of Journalism and Mass
Communications.

   

ur dresses ladies: the ,1j‘D

‘A Night of Wonders.

 

MONDAY,

MARCH 14, 2011

 

3 0 ‘THE RING-TUM PHI 0

opinions

  

totheeditor  

On a cold February day I walked from my office to the history department
of VMI, and along the way I encountered numerous cadets who must have been
en route to their classes. About 98 percent of them greeted me by saying: “Good
afternoon sir.” Most managed to smile as they said it. Not only did their greet-
ings make me feel good, they reassured me that there is a speaking tradition. It
is alive and well at VMI, but not on our own campus where we often boast about
our community and its tradition of civility. Whether members of our community
feel like greeting others or not, there is one very practical reason for speaking to
people you encounter on the campus: we are a private school, and the person you
choose to ignore might be a wealthy benefactor. You may not know this but your
tuition pays only about 52 percent of the cost of your college education. The
remainder comes from benevolent benefactors. Both white and black alumni are
often appalled upon returning to campus to ﬁnd that most students will neither
speak nor make eye contact. Unfortunately, this is not only a student problem.
Some faculty members refuse to speak as well. .

As an alumnus ‘of W&L whose affiliation with the college began in 1963, I
am often aghast at the fact that so many folks turn their heads or eyes as I ap-
proach. As a faculty member, who makes every attempt to be accommodating
to students, I am sometimes insulted when students enrolled in my classes avoid
speaking. Everyone has a bad day and sometimes do not want to be bothered.
Butcome on folks, speaking is no big inconvenience! Ironically some students
who do not speak are ‘clad in t—shirts with the word Speak plastered across their
chests. Another practical reason for speaking/is that it might uplift the spirits of
someone in our community is depressed or has low‘ self-esteem. ’

'I recently addressed the Birmingham, Alabama chapter of the W&L alumni
association, and one alumnus raised his hand to ask about the speaking tradition.

 

‘His name is Preston Sartelle, and he graduated in 1999. I initiallyencountered

him on campus during his ﬁrst year, and found him to be one of the friendliest
young men I have ever met. He was an SAE and a native of Mississippi. Preston
always enthusiastically greeted me but never took one of my classes. He was a
Spanish major. Now and then we would have brief conversations. As graduation
approached he invited me to join his family for lunch. We had a great time and
his parents wanted to know how we had gotten to know one another. We both
instinctively replied: “Through the Speaking Tradition.” , '

As much as we like to connect the speaking tradition with the gift of the
Doremus family-those New Yorkers of long ago who found the hospitality of an
anonymous student so impressive that they gave us a gym-I think the time has
come for us to write the epitaph for the speaking tradition; W&L needs to stop
boasting about something that so much of our community has rejected. When
I answered Preston’s question in Birmingham, I.took my cell phone out and
pretended that I was texting. So often students begin to text or at least pretend to
do so as I approach. Is this what our community has become? If so, I think that

is very sad.

Theodore C. DeLaney
History Department Head

Don’t talk. Just dance.

It’s Formal Season & Ali Greenberg has a few tips for girls and boys

By Ali Greenberg
COLUMNIST

Although no one really knows.

whether we are in winter or spring,
there is one thing that I am sure of; it is
most deﬁnitely Formal Season.

Formal Season runs from February
Break to Spring Break and is character-
ized by two main issues: who to take
and what to wear?

First, getting a date. If you are a girl
you have, luckily, a few more choices.
You can take the best guy friend (gal-
pal), your visiting brother/cousin, a girl,
or if you are feeling adventurous-maybe
someone you actually like.

I give you major

to her formal. She told me she was sick
of taking dates she didn’t want to hook
up with and ended up running away
from. She invited me because she knew
I was a sure thing.

So after you actually land a date
regardless of gender/sexual orienta-
tion/familial relations, the battle is only
halfway over.

Remember, you still need an outﬁt.
You can’t just show up naked. (I had a
joke here but some people said it wasn’t
funny.)

To all the prospective male students

The same goes for a $30 Ameri-
can Apparel dress. Do not wear it on
a booze cruise around the Baltimore
Harbor. Learn from my mistakes, some
dresses are just too small. I now wear
it as a top.

One thing I have to give credit for is
that the girls at this school do clean up
well. This is probably due to our large
cocktail dress budget. I counted, and
on average we wear 10-15 semi-formal
dresses a year.

But, no matter what we are wearing,
girls see formals as the opportunity to
act ridiculous with-

props if you invite
your date yourself,
but my money is
on that most of you

chicken out and
make your friend set
you up.

While I generally
don’t hesitate to ask

Whatever route you take, we are all looking for the
same thing. Girls just want someone who is going to
stay by their side, be attentive, be capable of danc-

ing and be properly groomed prior to the event.

out judgment. Our
forrnals are also a
time where we feel
proud that, for once,
we are supplying the
beer for an event.
Oh wait, there’s no
open bar? Are those
wristbands? Well

my date, I allowed
myselfto get set up in the fall, and my
date showed up in jorts, a t-shirt and a
madras jacket. You have all been fairly
warned.

Whatever route you take, we are all

looking for the same thing. Girls just.

want someone who is going to stay by

their side, be attentive, be capable of
dancing and be properly groomed prior

to the event. »

Somehow, we keep forgetting that
we attend Washington & Lee.

_If you cant ﬁnd that in a guy, take a
girl. In the fall, I was a girIfriend’s date

who read my articles and hopefully
aren’t deterred from applying, I advise
you to invest in a tuxedo early, as you
will likely need to wear one at least
four times during your Washington &
Lee career.

For the ladies, when it comes to
picking a dress, it really isjust a simple
matter of taste, regardless of price. If a
Herve Leger dress is short, do not wear
it two nights in a row to get down on
the dance ﬁoor in Charlottesville. It will
ride up, and you will give a bus trip full
of freshman boys a show. '

that sucks.

Regardless of your date or outﬁt, just
have fun and be safe this formal season,
and above all be a good date.

A few things not to do would be to
fall asleep outside the tent, leave your
date to go to another party, have a ward-
robe malfunction, or accidently lock
your date out of the hotel room.

And a ﬁnal hint for the boys, we ac-
tually just want you to stand there and
look pretty as well. No seriously. Don’t
talk. Just dance. -

' Egypt an accident waitingto happen

After two months of revolutionary protests rock the Muslim world, John Paul Beall urges America to be cautious

By John Paul Beall
COLUMNIST

There is hardly a foreign policy is-
sue today that has received more atten-
tion than Egypt’s revolution and their
leaders, Hosni Mubarak, resignation.
Even in the immediate short term the
results have been powerful, as Tunisia’s
and Libya’s revolutionaries have begun
to take up arms. These arethe results of
over a century ofpolitical instability and
international interference in the Mus-
lim third world. There is one thing that
America needs to consider at this point:
caution.

The political climate in Egypt has
been tumultuous over the last one hun-
dred years. It began under British con-
trol, lumped in with Sudan for admin-
istrative purposes and underneath a
puppet monarch.y.

During World War II, Egypt was the
focus ofa German push to the Suez Ca-
nal and subject to some of the hardest
ﬁghting in the war at El-Alamein. After
the war, Egypt obtained independence

as a democracy, only to have their sys-
tem become the domain of the military,
which has selected most of its Presidents
for the duration of its independence, in-
cluding President Mubarak.

The Muslim world has had similar
strife. The Muslim world was remark-
ably stable before World War I., at least
compared to now. The Ottoman Empire
was a long ruling authority over a great
expanse of the Middle East. The reign
of the Sultan hearkened back to the time
of a pan-Islamic authority under the Ca-
liphs. But during World War I, the Ot-
toman Empire saw great military action
and was forced through the meat grinder
in the subsequent peace. ‘

The Empire was carved up into coun-
tries with artiﬁcial borders and then oc-
cupied by Great Britain and France. The
two major impetuses were oil for naval
power and position for the safety of the
Suez Canal. The tribal societies of these
areas did not respond well to being di-

vided and thrown into the mix with
other parts of tribes.Instability and tribal
warfare ensued. Evidence is everywhere
in the current region, including Somalia,
Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.

These states eventually won inde-
pendence with the rest of the various
imperial holdings after World War II,
only after the areas in Northern and
Eastern Africa witnessed Axis advance
and Allied counter-attack. Similar con-
ditions arose as military dictatorships,
some with tribe backing, became the
norm. Then, the conﬂict between the
Soviets and NATO began, and the stage
on which the drama played out included
large parts of the Middle East. Oil com-
panies began to wield power in the re-
gion. America intervened in regions all
over this area, including Kuwait, Iraq,
Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Egypt, Syr-
ia, Lebanon and Turkey. The develop-
ment of these countries has been stilted
in the face of continuous conﬁict.

The point of all this background is to
demonstrate that if America further in-
tervenes in the system, results will only
back-ﬁre. In the wake of the bad foreign
policy of interventionalism, the view of
the United States has become extremely
poor. Bear in mind that America sup-
ported the Egyptian regime on multiple
occasions.

America needs to watch what hap-
pens, to be sure, but that is all it should
be doing at this point. Granted, it is an
oily situation already, but America is still
involved in a war in the Islamic region.

The reaction will only be that America is .

only continuing to perpetuate the order
of Western interference.

Should things take an extreme turn
for the worse, it would be wise to recon-
sider the issue. But, the bottom line is
that America has too many problems at
home to consider, for the moment, delv-
ing deeper into affairs abroad.

At this point it would be wise to keep

in mind the words of Calvin Coolidge,
“nothing I never said ever did me any
harm,” and remain aloof. America can
not force freedom at gunpoint, or not
anymore at least. The inhabitants of
Egypt, Tunisia, Libya and the entire
Muslim world must create for them-
selves a goal to which they aspire as a
country before America can offer as-
sistance. Otherwise, severe legitimacy
issues will continue barragejthe most
war-tom region on Earth.

Need help with the internship hunt?

Mac Davis introduces the Internship Opportunity Intiative, a new student run program to ease the internship search

By Mac Davis
CONTRIBUTOR

- Don’t miss out on this first year
of the W&L IOI internship program.
- It‘s exciting. its simple to apply.
- Career Services staff is standing
by«.to assist you. V
- The odds are in YOUR favor!

Are you looking for an internship this

summer? Well 14 of your fellow stu-

dents have spent the last year working
with a new student run program called
the Internship Opportunity Initiative
(IOI) to make your internship a reality.
These students contacted members of
the W&L family including current and
former parents, alumni and their own
personal contacts to recruit great experi-

ential internships for you this summer. .

Emphasizing W&L student’s superi-
or academic reputation and social skills,
we were successful in getting exclusive
opportunities not available to the general
population. The program was designed
to make the internship process easy for
employers to hire and students to apply.

Many of the IOI’s internships are
available only to W&L students. This
means that you will be competing with
a smaller group of applicants signiﬁ-
cantly increasing your chance of being
selected. We think these internships are
a great opportunity for W&L students,

and all of us at IOI hope you will take.

advantage of the opportunities

We are very lucky to be working
with companies and agencies includ-
ing BB&T Scott and Stringfellow, the
Kentucky Court of Justice, the Salem
Red Sox, the Richmond SPCA, Walker
& Dunlop Real Estate, the Sierra Club,
Price Weber Mass Marketing and Com-
munications, the Boston Mayors Otﬁce,
Barton Barton & Plotkin LLP, Mead-
Westvaco and the highly successful ﬁ-_
nancial ﬁrm Copper Rock Capital. Other
internships are being added weekly.

All of these internships provide a
level of substantive work experience
and responsibility that is not typically
given to interns. Speciﬁcally students
will have the opportunity to write court

decisions, help create interactive web-
sites for fortune 500 companies, research
equity investments, engage directly in
sports management, do clinical work
under the oversight of a veterinarian, as
well as write press releases, and lead and
develop PR campaigns.

To view and apply for the internships
please go online to W&L JobLink from
the Career Services homepage (careers.
wlu.edu). 101 will also be holding a spe-
cial information session next Wednes-
day (March 16th) at 7pm in" the Career
Services Center for all those interested.

If you see Jimmy Pickle, Ben Oddo,
Olivia Burr, Elizabeth Ward, Maggie
Thomas, Katie Stewart, Ben Turnbull,

Katharine Price, Elizabeth Bean, Les-
lie Peard, Bobby Rutherford, Cantey
Hittink, or Tyler Grant around campus
please let them know their work is ap-
preciated.

After our pilot year IOI is proud of
what we have accomplished, and we are
looking’ forward to growing in the ﬁl-
ture. Please keep an eye out on Campus
Notices for leadership positions within
IOI in the coming weeks.

 

 

- THE RING—TUM PHI -

MONDAY,

MARCH 14, 2011

opinions

 

‘THE RING-TUM

Best Dartiesgg T, I

KA34.3°/o
30 p _ .. ,, ,
1; I Sigma 
I CI“ , Phi Delt Pl_P_,
10 ,._l.0._..olo .11 11, ,L;unb(la

10.490 10,405

13-:,‘°:°,
5 , ,7

. 1

T,, ,(_

intr

Who ou’d feel most comfortable
ucing to your parents

 

15 lL§ii1'bETa22.-I°,'o KA 22,4o,.,

 

Most like

Frat rankings, broughtto you by frosh

Sixty-sevenﬁrst-year women, surveyed by Campbell Burr, give their opinions on different aspects of W&L is fraternities

By Campbell Burr
COLUMNIST

W&L has fraternity stereotypes passed down from class to class.*The'se reputations come up in Ring-tum Phi articles _and conversations with parents, and sit in the back of boys’ minds as they choose a fraternity.
ght it -would be interesting to get a new perspective on‘W&L’s ﬁ'aternities.__Freshman girls were asked to ﬁll out a survey choosing the fraternity that they felt best matched each description. 67 girls voted.
‘ A IKA ranked highest for “Favorite Fraternity Overall,” capturing 32.8% of the vote. Here are theother results! . - r

Iy to have a member

18 SAE 25.-I°»o

l

Most athletic

Z5
Plli Delt 31.390
30 I
15 — — ’"""’7KA”T””"’7’"i’  —~~”c ~ W"  
, 1 "- 9% Phi Kap
10 I 13'4"” . Sigma. I
l 3"“ cm
I 9.0" 0 9.00 0
I
0 J, ,_,_,,,, , ,. ,, . .  ,, _, ,,,,,_ , ,,__

Best dancers

I SAE 20.9»...

14 ‘A, T,,___,,__.___.V,,___*__-.. _.._. _. ..,.. ,. ,. 

  
  
     

’ ” ’ " ””””"*S’i2Ifla' "”7””"”” "’"” ’
KAI-1.9".» I 1 ‘ P 1"
° C In 7 V De“

W“"1i3"°"‘ I 11.90 of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY A?

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
STOCKTON BULLITT
HOLLY SUTHERS :
JAYNA JOHNS

ERIN SCHWARTZ
EMILY ALLENDER
JOHN PAUL BEALL
DOUG BEALLE
CAMPBELL BURR
CALLIE CLEMONS
MAC DAVIS

KATE GIBBS

ALI GREENBERG
JAMIE KIM

ALEX MARAGOS
~KELSY.MCCRAW
STEPHEN PECK
COLLINS RICE
KELLY MAE ROSS
PAT SMITH
CHELSEA STEVENSON
SAGE UM

DIANDRA SPICAK
STEELE BURROW

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR
STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
HEAD PHOTOGRAPHER

BUSINESS MANAGERS ROB GEORGE
MATT GOSSETT
DISTRIBUTION STAFF KELLY LANE

JOE MORAVEC
ZABRIAWN SMITH
EVAN SHARBER

DAVE WILSON
MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community‘for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING‘-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 2,4450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU

Pm

SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

I

-I-

4 KA 3-1.-l°’o
:0  W . — ——7—. ..——. —.—~ WW —— —.— W 7— ———— —
I
1‘ ’ Phi Kap i i Phi Deli’ “
1 ".90 o 1 ".90 a

l , ,,
I
I Beta
10  N 7",’ I T" H 11:90.‘; '

I

5 t,_,, _ _ ._ _  ,,
I
I

0 J, . . _ _,.__ _ .7"

IJ

Ill

Best off-campus houses

; Sigma (‘l1i22.-l%
14 p —  — —— —— ——
13 I . ,
I SAE1-I.9°o
10 » — —— -
I PI1iDelt
3 I 10.4% ” ’
2 I —  — —— —
0 I , 

(I

Pi Phi

featured in Fortune 500

L'¢lInL)(Ia25-.-I°-0-  r — ~ ——————

I4 . —— ——  —- r - -—-—-——--—

10 I ’ —- I---—.
Sigma Nu Sigma

8 ~- — — — ~-— -— —— -1-0.401; — ~PI1I*K3P"—"f‘]ﬁ——
V I 9.000 9,000

0 - — - —— —- — —-  —— --

 d,re_s_s,ed/best hygiene

I
I W sA.E26.9-{O
’...’ ' I K '
FIJI I 16
9.0% I
j 14
 1:
I in
I (
. 5
I
I 4
I
l
I
I
I

Lzunbrla
1'.9°o

,, , KA ,, ,(,,I“,,  De" ,
11:90‘, 11.9 o 10400

Most polite

9.0°o 1.;

Boys, now you know whether to brush up on those shagging skills,

talk to new landlords, or spend a little more time in the shower. Informa-
tion is power! Thank you‘ to all freshman girls who participated.

I

I I2
I
l 1 ) »
1 I
 s
I
I (V
I
I 1
. I ,
*These survey results do not reflect the views of the Phi. In fact, the staff would like  - ’
to point out that all participants were, in Ms. Burr ’s words, ﬁeshmen. ' I

I

Lninbrla 19.40 0

Phi Psi 14.9" 0

PiKA" 7
11.9°-o

KA 13.40., B91"

    11300

Smart phones: essenlial to life

Pat Smith endangers himself by living without his Droid smart phone for a day

By Patsmith
COLUMNIST

In this day and age, technology plays a
vital role in everyday life. Try and remem-
ber the last time you spent the day without
your cell phone. No, this does not mean the
time you fell in the river behind the pole
houses and forgot your cell phone was in
your pocket. You know who you are.

I am talking about legitimately being
without your cell phone for the entirety of
the day. For thepurpose of sound joumal-
ism, I decided to spend an entire day, in-
cluding going out, without the use of my
proid smart phone.

The ﬁrst few hours of my day without my

the cell phone industry trended into produc-
ing the smallest possible cell phones that it
could. Too bad it did not realize people ac-
tually like to read their text messages.

For today’s standards, one must always
have their smart phone. If you are one of
the few Americans out there that still does
not have a smart phone, congratulations,
you are now dumber than your stupid flip
phone.

Smart phones are incredible and can do
so many things that it should be illegal in
all’50 states, Puerto Rico, and Canada. Just
this past week I spent my entire Monday

has, I will just Droid the hell out ofthat and

, feel happy... even ifl said it was 265, when

it was actually 270.

Another leap the world of technology has
been in the tablet computer industry. I can-
not even begin to describe how badly I want
an iPad. The iPad does so many different
things, and they are all completely useless.
Sounds like a perfect match for me.

Maybe one day I will nut up and turn my
dreams into a reality by purchasing an iPad.
But until then, I will have to make due with
my Droid and my $1500 MacBook. '

Droid went swimmingly.
I reconnected with nature,
volunteered at the soup
kitchen, and helped four-
teen elderly people cross
the street.

By midday, I started
to feel the effects of with-
drawal. My speech began to slur, my ability
to operate heavy machinery went down the
tube, as did my ability to make sound deci-
sions. Or was I drunk?

When it was time to go out for the night,
I slightly resembled Golem from Lord of
the Rings. The only thing that kept me alive
was a Bruce Springsteen cover band... (I
had to mention New Jersey in some facet.)

I managed to survive this ordeal, de-
spite a sticky situation involving a clown,
barbed wire, and Kevin from Stop-in. Go-
ing through the day without a cell phone is
manageable, but not recommended.

Technology has taken huge leaps over
the past years. I remember way back when
during elementary school, my dad had a cell
phone the size of the Taco Bell dog. Then,

If you are one of the few Americans out there that
still does not have a smart phone, congratulations,

you are now dumber than your stupid ﬂip phone.

and did not use my computer once. I was
able to answer all of my emails, Google the
hell out of useless information, and talk to
my mother - the only important things in
my life.

When choosing a smart phone, there are
several different routes you can take. The
classic Blackberry route is for beginners
and noobs. The iI’hone route is for posers
and Steve Jobs gal-pals. If you want to be
a professional, go with any Android phone.
When they say, “Droid Does,” they mean
it.

The Droid will become your best friend
when you need to look up anything com-
pletely useless and important at the same
time. Ifl am in an argument with my friend
over how many career wins Mike Mussina

This blind man goes
into a drugstore and starts
knocking stuffoffthe shelf
with his cane.

The manager comes
over and says, “Can I help
you sir?”

“No, l’mjust looking.”

‘6

 

I Congratulations to the Class of 201 1! t 

GRAD FAIR

3-DAY ANNUAL U.G. GRAD FAIR  

Wednesday, March 16”‘ — Friday, March18"‘ o
9:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.

Atrium, Elrod Commons

The time to celebrate the end of your four year journey is fast approaching!

From the moment you ﬁrst stepped on campus, you knew you were entering a most special place. The
deﬁning traditions of Washington and Lee University: academic rigor, student self governance and lives
measured by truth and integrity will mark you as honorable men and women and leaders of the future. As

your journey comes to a close and as you celebrate your graduation day on May 26th,’ enjoy the memories of
campus life, afternoons spent at Goshen, hikes up House Mountain, Fancy Dress and the many friendships
you have made. Celebrate with family and friends this special day!

ORDERING YOUR

CAPS & GOWNS!

This is the ONLY opportunity tobe
ﬁtted for your environmentally

“green” caps and gowns!
(which one purchases for $50.00)

   

Washington and Lee
University

Engraved Chairs
Arm Chair or Rocker
“a lasting memory”

2011 Graduation photos

(Each graduate will be photographed as they
receive their diploma from the University

President. Photos may be purchased at

The  Class  PhotoStore after graduation)
Sem°0,.S_y Quality ghoto frames, lined

with a mat embossed with the University
name and crest are available at the Grad
Fair and the Washington and Lee
University Store

Order in time to wear for graduation!

A Balfour representative will be

available to ﬁt you for this handsome I g .
' PhotoStore

photostore.wlu.edu

 

 

 

6 °’ THE RING-TUM PHI °

MONDAY,

MARCH 14, 2011

arts&|ife

 

Brazilian dinner a hit for   students, staff I  

I-House hosts a cultural cooking lesson and dinner of regional fare, focuses on South America 3 largest country

By Jamie Kim
STAFF WRITER

Inside the International House on ‘

Friday, March 12, a group of 20 peo-
ple clustered around the stove in the
kitchen for the Brazilian cooking les-
son. Once stepping inside the kitchen,
the sizzling and boiling sound of the in-
gredients could be heard. The smell of
sweet olive oil surrounded everyone as
meat and rice were being cooked.

At the lesson, Gaby Sampaio,-a se-
nior exchange student from Manaus,
Brazil, explained the process of making
fried rice.

“Usually in Asia, to make fried rice,
we’ll ﬁrst cook the rice in water and
then fry it with oil. But in Brazil, they

reverse the process,” said ﬁrst year stu--

dent Christy Cui. “They fry raw rice
with oil and then pour

previously been to a Thai cooking les-
son and four-cheese pasta lesson held in
the same venue. This is also not her ﬁrst
time having Brazilian food.

“My ﬁrst year here I worked part
time in the Environmental Studies pro-
gram. Professor Kahn, who has a con-
sortium in Manaus, Brazil, had a little
party at his house for his students. So
he cooked traditional Brazilian food,”
said Karsch, “That’s the ﬁrst time I had
Brazilian food.”

Dan Boccio, a ﬁrst-year student, said
he came to the event to become famil-
iar with the Brazilian ‘food and culture
before ﬂying to Manaus, where he will
study anthropology, economics and en-
vironmental studies during the summer

decided to send me a 20-minute video
where he showed step-by-step how to
cook various kinds of food.”

The video was a greattutorial for
the Brazilian students who do not cook
very often. With the instructions person-
ally delivered by Femandez’s father, the
students had held‘ a “rehearsal” a week
earlier to make sure they knew how to
cook.

The cooking lesson was a great suc-
cess and satisﬁed many of the people
who attended the event. Sophomore
Haley Miller, who will also study
abroad in Manaus with the Environ-
mental Studies program, said this was
her ﬁrst time attending acooking lesson
on campus.

“I would deﬁnitely

boiling water in it to
cook the rice. That’s
why I think it’s interest-

jng » food. It makes people eat together, talk together

This was the start of
a lively exchange and
discussion on the dif-
ferent ways and styles
of cooking in different
cultures. From cooking
pasta with the ﬁre shut off to making
candy out of scratch and putting ketchup
and mustard on top of pizza, people en-
gaged in delightful conversations while
waiting for the food to get prepared.

After an hour of demonstrations and
preparations, the dinner of Picadinho
(ground beef with vegetable), fried rice,
beans, banana, and a dessert called Bri-
gadeiro, Brazilian chocolate bonbon,
was ready.

“Bananas with beans and rice are
something I never would have tried

- otherwise,” said junior Callie Hughes,

“It was so good.”

For Carol Karsch, the Data and Sta-
tistical Specialist at Leybum Library,
this is not the ﬁrst time she has been to
a cooking lesson at the I-House. She has

and have a good time. ’

“The most important thing is having good »

J

GABY SAMPAIOI senior exchange student from Brazil

and fall of this year.

“The food was delicious,” said Boc-
cio. “[The Brazilian students] did a per-
fect job.” \

Guillermo Fernandez, another ex-
change student from Manaus and one
of the students who led the cooking les-
son, said they decided to cook Picadin-
ho, rice, and beans because it is simple,
everyday Brazilian food.

“I have been living in the I-House
for two months, and I have always
cooked frozen food for my meal. Ev-
eryone made fun of me that I couldn’t
cook, and I got tired of it,” said Feman-
dez. “I sent my dad an email and asked
him to teach me something that is rela-

tively easy and inexpensive to cook. My I

dad, the most amazing person I know,

come again for more
events like this,” said
Miller.

Others said they
especially enjoyed in-
teracting with the stu-
dents.

“I never would have
thought of having ba-
nanas with meat. But
they told me that’s how they eat, and
I just chopped off the banana and put
it on my plate,” said Mae Chandler, an
employee at the University Bookstore.
“What I enjoyed even more than the
food was talking to the students. I had
a wonderful time with them.”

“The most important thing is having
good food,” said Sampaio. “It makes
people eat together, talk together, and
have a good time. You can meet people
that you usually don’t meet elsewhere
on campus. You can share a little bit of
your own culture.”

Ingredients: lean ground meat, onion, tomato, olive oil,

garlic, pepper, salt

0 Add olive oil to the pot.

o ‘ Add salt and pepper to the meat.

0 Add diced onions to the hot olive oil in the pot. 30
seconds later, add garlic. Stir. Then add meat.

' o , While you're putting the meat, turn off the stove. Stir
well. Turn on stove again and stir more. Add diced tomatoes.

Stir.

0 When the meat starts to get moist, close the pot and

wait 15-20 minutes (ﬁre should be low).
Stir well. Check if the meat has the right amount of salt. Add

more if needed.

0 Close the pot again and wait 15-20 minutes (ﬁre

should be medium).

0 After 40 minutes, you can leave the pot open. When
the water from the meat is gone, it’s ready!

Ingredients: olive oil, rice, onion, garlic, salt

Add olive oil to the pan. Once it gets hot enough,
add diced onions. Water should be boiling in a different pot

at this moment.

30 seconds after adding the onion, add garlic. Then,

After a few minutes of stirring, add salt.
'‘ Add boiling water to the rice. The level of the water

should be approximately a ﬁnger high above the rice.

0 The ﬁre should be lowered and the pot should be
closed, but not entirely. Wait 5-10 minutes.

0 Once there's no water in the pot anymore, turn off
the stove and leave the pot closed for a few minutes. And

then it’s ready!

Spend the night with elay for Life

W&L to host a night of food and fun, and, of cou

By Kate Gibbs
STAFF WRITER

Surely you’ve seen the posters
around campus—maybe even the ban-
ner that’s hanging in the commons. Re-
lay for Life is coming to Washington
and Lee. It is an event that celebrates
cancer survivors and remembers loved
ones lost. It is also a chance for the
W&L community to join together and
raise money for the ﬁght against caner.

Participants take turns walking
around the track all night to raise money
for cancer research. Since the ﬁrst Relay
for Life, over 3.5 million people from
over twenty different countries have

joined together to raise awareness.
Relay for Life will kick offon March
18 at 7 p.m. on Cannan Green and will
last all night long. Ending at 7 a.m. the
next morning, there will be plenty of ac-

tivities in between to keep participants.

entertained. At the start of the event, as
tradition dictates, there will be a Survi-
vors Lap, where everyone can acknowl-
edge and help celebrate another victory
over cancer.

There will also be the customary
Luminaria Ceremony after dark and
participants can purchase a luminaria in

honor or memory of a survivor. The Lu-
minaria Ceremony takes time to remind
us of those touched by cancer and those
still battling.

Finally, the last Relay for Life tra-
dition is the Fight.Back Ceremony. At
the ceremony, participants can make a
personal commitment to save lives by
taking up the ﬁght against cancer. The
commitment can range from doing
something as simple as having a screen-
ing test to something as large as talking
to an elected official. Throughout the

night, there will be plenty of activities '

Members of the Classes of 2012 and 2013 are invited to apply for the S. Cullum Owings,
Jr. Fellowship for the Academic Year 201 l—l2. The holder of this fellowship will receive a credit
of $1250 toward each term's tuition and will be expected to make several visits to secondary
schools around the country throughout the academic year to promote the Initiative for Academic
Integrity under the guidance of the Washington and Lee Institute for Honor. Together with some
of the visits, the Owings Fellow may also visit the local chapter of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association to discuss the state of the University from a student‘s point of view, with

Announcement of a Fellowship
for Members of the Rising Senior and Junior Classes

particular regard to the Honor System.

I

Cullum Owings was a member of the Class of 2003, an exceptional individual from
Atlanta, Georgia, who died tragically in an automobile accident during his senior year.

leaders of high standards.

The Fellowship is administered by the Campus Committee of the Washington and Lee
Institute for Honor. Criteria for selection of Owings Fellows are, first of all, that the applicants
should possess outstanding personal integrity. They should be good scholars, but the Fellowship
is not limited to students with exceptional grade—point averages. They should be articulate, with
some grace and poise in demeanor. while at the same time being sensitive to the values -and
opinions of others. They should be students who show promise of developing into community

(l)A copy of the student’s transcript

(2)A resume of activities and special talents

(3) An essay of approximately 250 words with the heading, “How my personal values and
experience qualify me to represent Washington and Lee as a Cullum Owings ’03 Fellow"

(4)A statement of willingness to make the off—campus visits as described above and to

commit to serving as a Fellow for the full academic year

(5)Names of two or more members of the faculty from whom the selection committee may

seek recommendations

Applications are due by Friday. March I8, 2011, and should be submitted by campus
mail (Professor Lewis John, c/o Department of Politics) or via e-mail (_iohn_l@wlu.edu) The
selection process will include personal interviews with the selection committee on March 28 for
those finalists judged most worthy on the basis of their written applications. Questions may be
addressed to Professor John or to either Pearson Nibley or Austin Branstetter, the 2010-ll

Owings Fellows.

March 7, 20]!

Applicants are asked to submit their applications to Professor Emeritus Lewis G. John,
Department of Politics, who serves as Chair of the Campus Committee. There is no application
form, but the application should include:

to advance the ﬁght against cancer.

Of course, this wouldn’t be W&L, if
we didn’t put our own spin on the event.
We’ ll celebrate their traditions but bring
our own ﬂair, as well. The W&L Relay
for Life will have great entertainment,
great food and lots of great activities.
Once again, Julie Slonecki will be per-
forming with her band, Julie and the
Scotts. General Admission, the mixed a
cappella group, will also be performing
along with a slew of other entertainers.
Additionally, There will be traditional
outdoor games like Frisbee and Com

rse, lots of walking to help battle cancer on Friday, March 18

‘Hole and video game systems such as

the Nintendo Wii. Emmy DiGiovanni
will be at the event to lead a class in
Zumba. There will be a food vendor all
night selling hotdogs, hamburgers and
funnel cakes.

In order to sign up to ﬁght back
against cancer, go to www.relajy’orlife.
com/wlu.edu. Join the 171 students al-
ready signed up and commit to walking
the track to ﬁght against cancer.

Internship with the CIA?

Monday, March 21
Huntley 235 at 5:00 pm

Come to an information session
hosted by a representative from the
Central Intelligence Agency.

He will also be available all day for
individual resume reviews ’
and informal discussions.

Contact Career Services
for an appointment.

Career Services

4

 

MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011

7 - THE RlNG~TUM PHI 0

 

arts&life

. Letters basis for
new play ;

Professors and students create a ploy from Lexington is

letters to the editors

By Collins Rice
STAFF WRITER

' Last week, the Theater de-
partment held auditions for its
spring presentation of “Letters
to the Editor,” a play born out of
over two hundred years of letters
to the editors of Lexington news-
papers. Sponsored by the The-
ater and Journalism departments,
the idea for the play was taken
from a production done by Penn-
sylvania’s Bloomsburg Theatre
Ensemble in the mid-nineties.
The auditions, which took place
last Tuesday and Thursday, were
open to both members of Spring
Term Theater 231 and the Lex-
ington community at large.

Although formal production
is just beginning, “Letters to the
Editor” has been in the works
for quite some time. In fact, the
play’s beginnings may be traced
back to I997, when Washington
and Lee’s own professor Pam
Luecke saw a performance of
the original Bloomsburg Theater
Ensemble’s script at a meeting of
the American Society of News-
paper Editors in Washington
D.C.

Afterenthusiastically relaying
the play’s plot to her colleagues
for several years, the desire for a

‘ Lexington speciﬁc version grew

within the Journalism and The-
ater departments, until Professor
Kimberly Jew decided to begin"
developing the project while on
sabbatical last winter term. By
summertime, the project hit full
swing when Professor Doug
Cumming of the Journalism
department along with Profes-
sor Jew and four Robert E. Lee
Scholars, senior Anna Hermes-
man, senior John McWilliams,
junior Eleanor Kennedy and
junior Zoe Yarborough. began
plowing through over two hun-
dred years of letters to the editor
sent to Lexington newspapers.
Although the idea of a play
centered around letters to the
editor has been done before-the-
ater group in Gainesville, Flori-

da wrote its own version inspired
by the Bloomsburg production
as well - Cumming believes
prior authors selected letters
to dramatize in a random way;
such was not the case for W&L’s

“Letters to the Editor.” As a me-

dia historian, it was paramount
to Cumming that the research
stage of the play be performed as
thoroughly and systematically as
possible.

Jew instructed the team to
look for theatrical elements
within the letters such as action,
a voice, character, personality
and elements that reﬁected lo-
cal color, as they combed let-
ters from the Lexington Gazette
(now known as The Lexington
News-Gazette), The Rockbridge
County News, The VMI Cadet
and the Ring-tum Phi for mate-
rial. A system was created in
which each team member was
assigned a time period each day
for which he or she was respon-
sible for reading and catego-
rizing the letters from a given
newspaper. Several months and
more than 8,300 letters later, the
task of creating a production out
of more than two hundred years
of history fell to Jew and the
students of her fall term Theater
class. '

Within the vast catalog, pro-
fessors Jew and Cumming un-
earthed letters concerning a bevy
of social and political issues
such as prohibition, women’s
suffrage, segregation and racism,
as well as simple matters oftown
concern and letters from those
who missed home.

“We, asjournalists, claim our
dedication to democracy,” Cum-
ming said. “And that’s what let-
ters to the editor are allsabout.”

In many cases, the editors of
Lexington newspapers printed
every letter they received which
enabled the research team to hear
the unfiltered voice ofthe people.
Such a fact, Cumming believes,

is a testament to his belief that
the whole history of democracy
is woven in the free press.

When it came time to adapt
the letters into a- working script,
a creative choice had to be made
whether to manipulate the letters
to tell a specific story or to pres-
ent them as independent entities.
Jew and her students solved the
problem by writing a script that
is, in many ways, a hybrid of
both. .

“Our script tried to maintain
the original intent of the letters,
but yet work with the letters cre-
atively so that we could create
some sense of scene work and
some sense of movement,” said

:Jew. What emerged was a col-
lection of independent sketches
tied together by the simple idea
of home.

In every stage of its develop-
ment the production of “Letters
to the Editor” has garnered inter-
est from the community.

“We have had so much sup-
port,” said Jew. “The Rockbridge
Historical Society has been very
supportive, the community has
been extremely supportive, [and
so has] the faculty. People are
very interested in this project.”

Cumming has also written
an academicrpaper on the expe-
rience, which he will present at
the University of South Carolina
this month. Additionally, he has
signed a deal with Manner Me-
dia in Buena Vista to publish a
book on the Lexington letters
to the editor, which he expects
will be available late this year or
early next year.

Short story inspires
students to create and
perform plays

Mindbending Productions presents three one-act plays in
“An Evening of Theatre ”

Bysage Um
STAFF WRITER

Mindbending
the student-run theater group on
campus, is putting together “An
Evening of Theatre” this week
starting Thursday, March 17,
featuring four plays of insanity,
love and passion. '

The evening is to showcase
three one-act plays written by
Mindbending Productions presi-
dent senior Dave Curran, open-
ing for the one-man play written
by vice president senior Johnny
Coyle.

The idea for the show initially
came from Coyle’s adaptation of
Nikolai Gogol’s short story, “Di-
ary ofa Madman,” which chron-
icles a man’s insanity through a
series ofjoumal entries. Based
on Coyle’s one-man show, Cur-
ran wrote three plays with similar
themes of madness, communica-
tion, and interpersonal relation-
ships: Medium and Matrix, 1 Am
You and Finding the Words.

Medium and Matrix, direct-
ed by junior Jeni Pritchett and
played by sophomores Jesse
Mozingo and. Sara Hardman,
follows a man and woman’s
desire to discover the meaning
of everything in the world. An
absurdist piece, quite like those
of Irish avant-garde playwright
Samuel Beckett, it delves into

Productions, ,_

the essence ofhumanity at an in-
tellectual level.

The second play, I Am You,
explores madness brought on
by man’s endless desire and in-
ability to become completely
satisﬁed. It is directed by junior
Thomas S. Meric Ill and features
senior Ellie Duvall and sopho-
mores Jay Stephens and George
Youmans. Finding the Words in-
vestigates man’s frustration with
the relationship between passion
and self-expression. Directed
by sophomore Mary Rodriguez
and played by senior Samantha
Copping and sophomore Drew
Martin, the play surveys one
man’s slightly delusional hope
to inspire Qthers without being
inspired himself.

Mindbending Productions is
an entirely student run group that
is able to put on shows that the
students really want to do.

“It is a way for students to
pursue their own works and
ideas without being part of the
departmental production," said
Curran. “Whatever the demand
is, we try to meet that. It’s about
the students and what they want
to do.”

Led by Curran and Coyle,
Mindbending Productions has
come a long way. Only two years

ago, the group was mostly inac-
tive until Curran and Coyle de-
cided to resurrect it.

“We did staged readings and
founded Wednesday Night Live,
the sketch comedy group, to give
more opportunities for students
to be involved and push them-
selves,” Curran said.

Wednesday Night Live is also
completely student-written and
student-acted.

More than 20 students are di-
rectly involved in the shows and
they have put on various shows
in the past like Ah, Wilderness!
and The Fantastics. With the
technical help from the theater
department, Mindbending Pro-
ductions allows students to use
what they have learned in class
and try to do it themselves.

“An Evening of Theatre” will
be performed for three nights
starting on Thursday, March 17,
at 7:30 p.m. at the Johnson The-
ater in Lenfest Hall.

  
  

    

 

I  lN'l'ERNSHIPSl   INTERNSHIPS!
   inrormationsession        

,Wednesday, March 16 at 7:00ip.m. ;
Career Services Office, Commons 301 '   

Learn about Summer Opportunities open to our students
through these great resources and more!

Liberal Arts Career NetWORK

Listing over 4000 Internships for
30 of the Nation’s Best LiberalArts Colleges

VFIC Career15

Connecting students of 15 respected Virginia liberal arts
colleges with employers looking for interns

INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITY INITIATIVE (IOI)
Internships available through the efforts of
W&L Parents and Alumni,
Reserved exclusively for W&L Students,
including:

Student Intern, Office of Boston Mayor Thomas Menino
Boston, MA; Application due March 25

Research Analyst Intern, Copper Rock Capital Partners
Boston, MA; Application due March 25

Client Services Intern, Copper Rock Capital Partners
Boston, MA; Application due March 25

Communications Intern, Meadwestvaco Corporation
Covington, VA; Application due March 31

Legal Assistant Intern, Barton Barton & Plotkin, LLP
New York, NY; Application due April 8

Career Services

,4

 

   Greek Sialftiestiit  
8; American Cuisine‘

\

' SERVING
Breakfast~ Lunch~ Dinner
(Breakfast served all day!) p

Tuesday-Thursday: 7AM — 9PM”
' Friday and Saturday: 7AM — 10PM i

Sunday: 7AM — 3PM
Closed Mondays '‘

Lunch and Dinner Specials! ~-
I A Carry Out Available
Go Greek at Niko’s!

I 167 South Main Street.
Lexington, VA
Phone: 540.464.9499
Fax: 540.464.1226

Look for menu at www.nikosgrill-cafe.com

 

 

 

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011

sports

 

Men’s lax opens strong, stumbles

Almost a month ago, W&L dominated, 18-4, against F errum, [beating the newly established Panthers lax team

By Doug Bealle
STAFF wmrrn

The Washington & Lee Men’s La-
crosse team got their 2011 season off
to a great start by beating the Ferrum
Panthers 18-4 on February 15. The win
gave Coach Gene McCabe his 100th ca-
reer victory, and his 46th at W&L.

The game was also the ﬁrst game
ever for the brand new Ferrum lacrosse
program. W&L assistant coach Nat St.
Laurent was previously hired as the head
lacrosse coach at Ferrum, and recruited
many of the players who were on the
ﬁeld for the Panthers.

The Generals jumped out to a 3-0
lead, but the Panthers answered back
with two quick goals. Another W&L
goal led to a 4-2 score at the end of one
quarter. Seconds into the second quar-
ter, the Panthers scored again, putting
the experienced Generals up by only
one goal on a team composed almost
entirely of ﬁrst-years.

Senior attackman Spence Daw said
that the team was expecting an easy vic-
tory when facing a brand new program,
but admitted that Ferrum was “more

. skilled ‘than any ﬁrst year program I
have ever seen, which can be attributed a

to coach St. Laurent’s solid recruiting
before he took the job at W&L this sea-
son.” .

Captain Gerard Savarese attributed
the early struggles to “ﬁrst game jitters”
and that it took’ about a quarter and a
half to settle in to their game plan, but
after the team got its offense and de-
fense going “the game went along much
smoother.”

Once the Generals overcame their

rough start, they began to play very well,
and rolled off 13 consecutive goals, a
run that went well into the fourth quar-
ter. In fact, the Panthers didn’t ﬁnd the
back of the net again until there was less
than eight minutes leﬁ in the game.

Washington & Lee was led in scor-
ing by junior attackman Scott Meehan,
who notched four goals. Sophomore
midﬁelder Cooper Brown tallied two
goals and one assist, while Daw added
one goal and two assists.

At the end of the day, it was a good

victory that the Generals can build on
moving forward. Savarese summed it
up with by saying, ,“Solid start, good
ﬁrst step, but deﬁnitely room for im-
provement.”

He of course added, “We were just
happy to get our coach his 100th win.”

A three-game losing streak for the Generals ends against Washington College with a strong performance by senior goalie

By Doug Bealle
STAFF wnmsn

The W&L Men’s Lacrosse team beat

"the Washington College Shoremen 5-

4 on Saturday behind a strong perfor-
mance in goal by senior goalie Jason
Lumpkin.

Lumpkin started the year off as a

- back-up to senior Ned Lundvall, but

was asked to step in as the starter af-
ter Lundvall broke his hand in a game
against Salisbury. Lumpkin had 10
saves against WAC, two of which came
in the last ﬁve minutes while protecting
a one-goal lead, including one while fac-
ing a two-man advantage for WAC due
to penalties by two Generals. .
Afterwards, Lumpkin said he was
“thankful to get the opportunity to play,

and had a really fun time out there.”-



Quickito thank those around him, he
added, “The defense played unbeliev-
able.” »

The Generals got production from‘

a variety of sources as ﬁve different
players scored the ﬁve Generals goals.
Junior attackman Sam Mott and sopho-
more attackman Mac Means scored the
ﬁrst two goals of the game in the ﬁrst 3
minutes of the second quarter.

After the Shoremen tied it up at
two apiece early in the third quarter,
the Generals rippedoff three goals in a
span of ten minutes. Senior midﬁelder
Drew Koeneman, senior midﬁelder
Drew Mancini, and sophomore attack-
man Jack Apgar scored during the span,
while sophomore attackamn Will Gar-

rett assisted on two of the goals.

The Shoremen scored two more goals
in the fourth quarter to cut their deﬁcit to
one, but Lumpkin and the defense held
tight and refused to let Washington Col-
lege tie it up. ’

Senior defenseman and captain JD
Englehart spoke to Lumpkin’s perfor-
mance, saying that “we have always had
confidence in him asa back up, and he
proved that yesterday by getting his ﬁrst
win as a starter.”

The win marks the second of the sea-
son for the Generals, and ends a tough
three-game losing streak, all three losses
coming against teams who made the
NCAA tournament last season.

The ﬁrst loss was at home on Febru-

ary 19th to Whittenberg, a 7-6 loss that
saw the visitors come back from a 6-3
deﬁcit with the ﬁnal four goals of the
game.

The Generals followed that up by‘

visiting the perennial powerhouse Salis-
bury on February 23rd and losing 7-
4. This was the game where Lundvall

i broke ‘his hand.

The Generals suffered another loss
due to injury in practice after the Salis-
bury game when senior midﬁelder and
captain Gerard Savarese tore his ACL.
The following Sunday, the Generals vis-
ited Denison, and fell 10-6.

The win on Saturday was the ﬁrst
step in getting back on the right track.
Englehart added that “although it wasn’t

pretty, we really just needed to put a
strong 60 minutes together and gut out
a tough win.”

The Generals were unable to get
back to back wins after they fell Frank-
lin & Marshall on Saturday, 7-6.

The team will try again on Tuesday
against Kenyon. The game will be in
Lexington at 7 p.m.

graduation.

KATHEKON APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 21“

  What is Kathekon?

Kathekon comes from a Greek phrase meaning: ”to serve”. It is the ”student
alumni" organization. The juniors. and seniors in.Kathekon connect with top
administrators, learn about the history and workings of W&L, help Alumni Affairs
with campus events, and get a big head start on staying connected to W&L after

If selected, during the next two years you would:

° Attend 5-6 dinner meetings (free!) with W&L leaders.
° Provide valuable assistance to Alumni Affairs during large campus reunions.
° Understand, embrace, and promote the speaking tradition, including ”Speak Day." .

° Assist with the "100 days” party, help obtain contact information for graduating seniors,
and help with Senior Night at the Ruins in graduation week.

° Have fun doing it.

 
 

You would spend about 20 hours annually. Membership is by application, only from rising
juniors in good academic and general standingin the W&L community. We are seeking a
diverse group of about 20 new members who love W&L and wish to deepen their connections
with the University and its alumni. Alumni Affairs staff and Kathekon leaders will interview
chosen finalists briefly in the week of March 28 and select the new members.

Please send your resume to len Utterback at jutterback@w|u_.edu by March 21“.

Call Jen if you have questions. THANKS!

  

 
 

MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011

 

9 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

sports

Chemistry on the courts gives men success

A 6-0 start, interrupted by a tough loss to Mary Washington, for men is tennis hints at a strong season for the team

By Alex Maragos
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s ten-
nis team kept up its winning ways with
5-0 wins over ODAC opponents Emory
& Henry and Virginia Wesleyan Satur-
day at the Dtjchossois Tennis Center.

The Generals now hold a 6-0 season
record and are 4-0 in ODAC competi-
tion, enough to be ranked 29th nation-
ally.

“I think the biggest reason [for our
success] is our team chemistry. We’re a
very close group of guys that have been
playing with each other for a long time

U I’ IDATE:

Washington and Lee suffered its first team loss of the season as the Generals fell to

now. We know...how to best support
each individual on the team,” saidjunior
Mae Davis.

Sophomore Hayden White andjunior
Jeremy Becht played in the only two
singles matches against E&H. White

won his match 6-2, 6-0, and Becht took’

his 6-2, 6-3.

In doubles competition, Becht
matched up with junior Jonathan Gaff-
ney to win 8-3, while White teamed
with junior Michael Freeman to shutout
E&H for an 8-0 victory. Davis and se-

nationally and defeated the Generals in singles and doubles play.
, Ranked 25th nationally, the Generals had been riding a 5-game winning streak coming into Saturday's match. Mary Washington was only the second non-conference
opponent that W&L has faced so far this year. Against the-ODAC, the Generals are undefeated with a combined 36-1 record in singles and doubles competition.

' Though they are ranked higher than W&L, Mary Washington improves to a 4-6 record on the season as the Gener

nior Will Hall paired up to win 8-4.
“Will and l have great chemistry in
both style of play and the mental game.

" We tend to moderate each other’s emo- ' '

tions and the effects it has on our play,”
said Davis. _

Later that day against Virginia Wes-
leyan, Hall and Davis paired up again
for doubles to win 8-0, and Gaffney
and Becht followed suit by also shutting
out their opponent. Freeman and White
continued the pattern, taking their match
8-2.

,singles positions—fil|ed byjunior Jonathan Gaffney and junior Ben Fass, respectively.  A
in doubles play, W&L picked ‘up its only win from sophomore Hayden White and junior Michael Freeman, who defeated Will Apperson and Alex Blakhim of the Eagles 8-6.

Women “smang” it two weeks in a row .

“We...foeused on playing smart and
reducing stupid errors. We played much
better [than we did earlier] and won in
less than 30 minutes against a better
team,” Davis said.

In‘ singles, White and Hall were
nearly ﬂawless as they took down their
opponents from Virginia Wesleyan 6-0,
6-0 and 6-1, 6-0, respectively.

Several of the teams the Generals
will be facing in the coming weeks are
ranked in the top 30 nationally. They
will need to continue their high-level

of play to accomplish their lofty season
goals.

“We want to win ODACs again,” Da-
vis said. “We want to be ranked top 15 in
the country and make it to the elite eight
in the NCAAS.”

the University of Mary Washington 6-3 in Fredericksburg. The Eagles are ranked 18th

als fall to 6-1. W&L picked up wins at the No. 5land No. 6'

Tennis continues to dominate as they roll to a perfect conference record, ‘taking down every team they faced

By Callie Clemons
STAFF WRITER

While half of the Washington and
Lee women‘s tennis team was compet-
ing at the Duchossois Tennis Center last
weekend, the other half was participat-
ing in the ITA National Collegiate ln—
door Championships at the Swanson
Tennis Center in St. Peter, Minn.

The No. 10 ranked Generals defeated
Randolph-Macon, Emory & Henry and
Virginia Wesleyan at home and ad-
vanced to the ﬁfth-place match in the
ITA Championships. This weekend, the
team continued their winning streak,
beating Guilford College.

“Our team slogan was ‘smang it,"”
saidjunior Ellen Yeatmcn. “We whipped
it real hard and were hustlin’ everyday,
which lead us to winning the consola-
tion draw  like Diddy would say,
‘we’re taking it home.”

On Friday March 4th, the Gener-
als fell to No. 5 ranked Denison in the
ITA tournament. In the match, the team
scored two singles and one doubles

victories. Sophomore Sallie Griffin de-
feated Denison’s Kate Westenberg in
the No.6 position, 6-4, 6- l, whilejunior
Trelsie Saddler was

6-3, ﬁnishing ﬁfth in the tournament.
The Generals ﬁve of the six singles
matches against Chapman and all three

out the tournament."
At home, the team crushed the ODAC
rival Randolph-Macon on Friday March
4th, 5-0. Senior cap-

victorious in the No.
4 position over Alex
Marcell, 6-2, 6-2.
Doubles duo juniors
Ellen Yeatman and
Jen Snyder — “Team
Jellen” - rolled over
DU’s Alex Marcell
and Jane Lent in the
No.2 spot, 9-7.

“My favorite part
of the weekend was
going undefeated with my new doubles
partner, my best friend Ellen Yeatman,”
said Jen Snyder. “I can’t wait to contin-
ue our winning streak through the rest of
the season.”

The next day, the team conquered No.
13 Chapman, 6-3, and No. 7 Gustavus
Adolphus, the host of the tournament,

' .
genéa ¢ Eeetacmant
PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN Tov CAFE
Located at

LEE lllt. TRAVEL PLAZA

Hom e Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets!

Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5pm—10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm—10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 11pm—2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am—11am
Daily Hot Country Bar 12Noon —10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 10:30am-10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 North Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA

540-463-3478

Great food & a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

 

would say, ‘we ’re taking it home. ’

“Our team slogan was ‘smang it. ’ We whipped it
real hard and were hustlin ’e\/eryday, which lead

us to winning the consolation draw  like Diddy

1!

ELLEN YEATMEN, junior tennis player

ofthe doubles matches against Gustavus
Adolphus.

“This weekend was a great event
for the generals playing 3 of the top 15

teams in the country back to back was a .

real test of our endurance and toughness
as a team," said head coach Eric lshida.

“I feel that we grew as a team through-

tain Catherine Reed
slammed Katie Betts-
Mulcome in the No.
2 position, 6-0, 6-0,
while sophomore
Kerry Cotter defeat-
ed Sarah Rainey, 6-1,
6-0. All there of the
General’s doubles
teams won as well.

The Generals con-
- tinued their at-home
winning streak the next day, in victo-
ries over Emory & Henry and Virginia
Wesleyan. They defeated both ODAC
teams 5-0. While Wasps and Marlins
were able to score some singles victo-
ries, the Generals three doubles teams
won against both schools.

This Sunday, the team rolled over

ODAC rival Guilford College 9-0, win-
ning all of their singles and doubles
matches.

The team improved their record over
to past two weeks to 10-1 overall and 6-
O in ODAC play.

“I was really proud of my team for
turning on our swag,”. commented junior
Laura Patillo.

The Generals come back to the court
on Saturday to play Division I opponent
Wofford at 10 a.m. in Spartanburg, S.C.

the ringtum  knead cpoy ecliters  
and stff riders. no expearyance

    kneeded + we luk
’ A     resumayz.

plz email phi@wlu.eclu. if

 on up  if

u no u wannatltl    C

 

 

$100 Gift Cardat Kroger

Enter to Win
\ GeneralsRetreat
on Facebook or follow us
on Twitter @GenRetreat

 

GENERALS
  RETREAT

APARTMENTS

NOT Affiliated with Washingtdn & Ire-e University

 
   
     

Ask us about our
INCREDIBLE
referral program and

  save $$$$!

 

540-464-3673
ian@tbmcom.com

 

THE BUILDING MANAGEMENT CD

 

MONDAY, MARCH 14,2011

11

0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

The Generals fell a week
ago to Southern Virginia
and Lynchburg following a
sweep of conference-rival

Emory & Henry

By Stephen Peck
STAFF WRITER

  

Just as the weather begins to warm
up, the bats have gone cold for the W&L
baseball team.

Southern Virginia shut ‘the Generals
out last Wednesday by a score of 2-0 and
Lynchburg swept Saturday’s double-
header 5-0, 9-6.

W&L is now 4-6 overall, 2-2 in
ODAC play.

Coming off of an impressive double-
header sweep versus Emory & Henry
just three days prior, W&L was looking
forward to continuing the momentum

versus SVU at Cap’n Dick Smyth ‘Field .

on Wednesday. SVU senior pitcher Dar-
rell Brown had other ideas.

Sophomore ﬁrst baseman Josh Linn
singled in a run in the top of the ﬁrst for
SVU to put them ahead l-O. It was all
the lead Brown would need.

Brown went the distance for the
Knights, scattering a mere six hits, all

' singles, over nine innings. Five strike-

outs and six walks highlighted his com-
plete game shutout that gave him a 3-1
record for the year.

“Heithrew a lot of strikes and yet we
just weren’t putting good cuts onvthe
ball,” sophomore shortstop Jonathan
Stutts said.

“He would get ahead early with a
fastball and then lull us to sleep with
his off speed and we weren’t able to
adjust and wait on‘ the ball,” sophomore
outﬁelder Joe Scalzo said. “We need to
have the right mental approach going to
hit against pitchers like that.”

Jake Johnson went 3-4 at the plate

. in helping SVU to their ﬁrst win over

W&L since 2007. The 2-0 win also gave

 

the Knights their best start in program
history (8-1).

Senior starting pitcher Gregg Laswell
took the tough-luck loss for the Gener-
als, as he only allowed. two runs and
ﬁve hits amid his ﬁve innings of work.
Sophomores Alex Maragos and Stutts
each had two hits for the Generals, who
threatened, but couldn’t plate a run.

W&L looked to rebound on Saturday

with an afternoon ‘doubleheader versus.

Lynchburg, but found themselves in a
familiar situation. 3'

. Matt Morgan was the Hornets start-
ing pitcher in game one and much like
Brown for SVU, he shut down the Gen-
erals bats. He threw 8.] innings of shut-
out ball en route to a 5-0 LC victory.
Morgan only allowed two hits, walked
two, and struck out seven while improv-
ing to 3-0 on the season.

“Morgan did a good job of , using
counts to his advantage. He spotted up
well and was able to expand the strike
zone, “ Stutts said. “However, he was
more hittable than the box score indi-
cates. Lynchburg’s defense played.well
behind him and we just couldn’t seem to
get a ball to fall our___way.’’ ,  N ,_ _ W

A wild pitch and an RBI groundout
by LC sophomore Michael Kenah gave
the Hornets a 2-0 lead and they would
never look back, plating additional runs
in the third and fourth.

W&L junior Roger Strong got the
start for the Gennies but took the loss af-
ter surrendering ﬁve runs on seven hits
in 5.0 innings on the hill.

Once the ﬁnal out was recorded, the
Generals once again found themselves

 

  

looking at the scoreboard with a zero
staring back at them in the run column.
It would not be until the second inning
of the nightcap before the Generals ﬁ-
nally scored, ending a scoreless streak
that lasted 21 innings and stretched
across four games. A

“We are deﬁnitely a fastball hitting
team and opponents are starting to see
that and exploit our current inability to
hit off speed pitches,” Scalzo said of the
General’s current hitting‘ woes. “We just

need to be more consistent.”

The Generals almost pulled off the

‘comeback in the second game. of the

doubleheader, but ﬁve errors did them in
as W&L ultimately fell short by a score
of 9-6. I

W&L junior Jody Davis got the start
for the Generals but the Hornets had his
number and tagged him for six runs in
the ﬁrst three innings. They stretched
their lead to 8-2 after four innings, a

lead that would prove to be insurmount- .

able for the Generals. W&L clawed their
way back in the game thanks to a solo
home run by Scalzo in the bottom of the
fourth and a passed ball in the bottom of

 
 
  

W&L aﬁer they beat E&H 17-6 and 4-3
last Sunday to open up ODAC play. The
Generals will try to put the rough patch
behind them as they have a full slate of
games this upcoming week.

Stutts remained optimistic: “Our re-
cord so far doesn’t reﬂect the talent we
have this year - that’s what has made
these losses so frustrating. The bats will
come around. We just need to keep push-
ing and learning from each game.”

The Generals next face Stevenson
Tuesday in Lexington at 3:00 p.m.

the ﬁfth, The Generals would plate two_ , _ _

more in,the seventh inning to bring the
game to 8-6, but would get-no closer.

Stutts lamented the numerous ﬁeld-
ing errors: “We just handed them too
many extra runs.”

Sophomore Michael Del Buono led
LC at the plate, going 3-5 with two runs
scored and two RBIs. W&L senior‘An-
thony Cardona, juniorAlston James, and
sophomore Will Salley all ﬁnished 2-5.

It was the third loss in a row for i

   

STEELE BURROW/ head photographer

sports

 

Pictures from Saturday's double header against Roanoke show a
W&L shortstop throwing to first, above. At left, W&L player Chris
Nault tries to beat catcher’s throw to first. Bottom left shows W&L
pitcher trying to pick off Roanoke runner on first. And below, team-
mates high-five after scoring a home run.

  
  
  
 

For more information on the game, turn to “By the Numbers” on
page 12 .

 

12 - THE RING-TUM PHI °

MONDAY, MARSH 14, 2011

 

ondeck  

 

sports

 

Mon Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT SUN
st::h_ vs -at vs
Baseball enson ‘ SVU Gurlford Tufts
3:00pm 4 pm 12 pm 1 pm
Men's ‘'5 at H-Sc
Kenyon 1 pm
Lauosse 7 pm
w 1 vs at
°'"°" 9 °°';{a"“ Catholic
Lax.-osse 4:30am 1 pm
M vs vs
en's
Randolpl: Hgluzien
TOIIIIIS  Z 
Women's at V5
Wofford Emory
Tennls 10 am 9 am
Roanoke
1'.-ack Invite
9 am
Golf

inthe numbers
26-1

That would be a baseball score. The W&L Generals dis-
mantled Roanoke College in the second game of Saturday's
doubleheader. The Generals only had two scoreless innings,

and with the sweep of Roanoke, move to 6-6 on the season.

22

The number of convicted criminals on the University of
Plt'tsburgh’s football team, according to _a recent study by
Sports Illustrated on NCAA schools. Pitt leads the nation in

that category.

. $18

The new salary of NFL commissioner Roger Goodell
now that the NFL lockout has become official. In
January, Goodell promised he would slash his sal-
ary of $10 million a year if there were a work stoppage.
.20
Trevor Bayne turned this old the day before becoming the
youngest person in history to win the Daytona 500. Over-

night, Bayne went from a struggling driver toa NASCAR

sensation. ’

soapbox

“For me, doing Dancing With the Stars,
that’s the best way to get over it, move on
and reflect.”

--slnelerswlde recelverﬂlneswardmhowas recently
cliosentocompetalnuielnlemoontestsqysheliasbeen
‘really depressed’ since loslngthe super Bowl In Febmary,
from foxsportsoom

“It was old-school. He just shook my hand and
went on his way. None of this tapping his chest
and pointing to the sky. It "was beautiful.”

-Newbrlttiarilstlid-basecoacliTinFlI-lrierycorrlnerrltuori
mdappreolalh¢BraridorIBelt'slioIne-nnbeliavlorarundthe

baees,norn1oapor1s.oorn

“I’m tired of pretending I'm not special. I'm
tired of pretending /’m not a total bitchin’ rock
star from Mars.. ”

-Charlosheen

  
   

Saturday. The Gennies trailed by three goals, losing to Salisbury with a score of 12-9.

The women’s lacrosse team started the
season with three big wins on the road fol-
lowed by a tough loss at home.

Over Washington Break, the team trav-
elled on the bus for more than 40 hours from
Virginia to Atlanta, to Tennessee, to Maryland
and ﬁnally home to Lexington. The Generals
racked up three wins on the road trip to be-
gin their Season 3-0, then suffered a loss to
Franklin and Marshall after returning home.

Senior leaders helped guide the Generals
(4-1) to their ﬁrst 2011 victory in a gripping
l8-l7 overtime win against the Mary Wash-
ington Eagles on February 20th in Freder-
icksburg, Va. Senior attacker Wilton Megar-
gel netted the game-winning goal in overtime
for a total of three goals. Senior midﬁelder
Emmy Matthews led with ﬁve goals, and
senior goalie Katharine Farrar had eleven
saves.

An easy match against Sewanee led the
team to their second win with a score of2l-

13. The Tigers could never catch up from the I

General’s l5-4 halftime lead. First-year Alex
Van Horn had four goals and Megargel had a
career-high of six goals.

Last week, W&L continued its streak at
Stevenson when Megargel hit the net with
eighteen seconds left in the game to win it
10-9. The Mustangs kept up with the"Gener-
als throughout the game, with help from at-
tacker Lisa Baker who had four goals. F arrar
led the Generals defense with twelve stops to
win the game.

in an interview with Lacrosse Magazine,
Coach'Brooke Diamond said ofthe victories:
“We have a laundry list of things to work
through, but positively it shows we can win
tight games. We didn’t panic. Again that goes

-back to our senior leadership.”

At the home opener at Watt Field on Sat-
urday, the No. 14 Generals couldn’t keep up
with the third-ranked Franklin and Marshall
team. The F&M Diplomats struck quickly,
scoring ﬁve goals in the ﬁrst ten minutes of
play. F&M juniors Katie Delaney had two
goals and Lauren Ehrhardt' had one goal and
an assist. '

The Generals responded with four un-
answered goals to end the ﬁrst half trailing
by one (5-4). But the Diplomats opened the
second half much like the ﬁrst, scoring three

times in the opening 3:08, to assume an 8-
4 lead with 26:52 remaining in the contest.
W&L rallied with goals by ﬁrst-year attack-
er Margaret Klein, junior attacker Maddie
McKaig, Mathews and sophomore midﬁelder
Ashley Barnes to bring the gap to one goal (9-
8). The Generals momentum wasn’t enough
to stop the aggressive F&M team. Although
they out show their opponent 22-19, W&L
suffered its ﬁrst loss ofthe season with a ﬁnal
of 1 1-8.

Senior captain Kate Donnelly called the
game a learning experience.

“We grew a lot as a team this game,”
she said. “We learned both that we can stay
with the number three team in the nation and
that we must rise in our competitive level of
play.”

The Generals faced their ﬁrst ODAC com-
petition on March 8th when they hosted Hol-
lins at 4:45 p.m. on Watt Field in Lexington.
The Gennies won, 21 - 0.

' STEELE BURROW/ hed photograper
Washington & Lee's Alex Van Horn tries to get open as Salisbury defenders surround her during a home loss on

   Women laxon . . . laxoff
Lacrosse starts hot with three wins, then falters dropping two of their next three

By Emily Allender
smrr WRITER

-M
1.»

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
    
   

