 

‘Y.t7:‘.?-7“Li V'r”'.'
’Ii.“I'ius.~ / ~/~"‘ 4

;.*n.w£ 53.‘-I’ ,x'.".*i L.  

   

  Wl_UR’sspringﬂingl .

A&L/ page 

Men lose, Women advance

Men's tennis falls to'Wesleyan, while the
women move on to NCAA quarterﬁnals.

SPORTS / page 8

MONDAY, MAY 16, 2011

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

IV THE STIJIEHTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS $lHl.'.E1l§T VOLUMEC|V,NUMBER19

Alums revisit, reunite at W&L

The weekend celebrated the return of alumni, honored some and raised $3.5 million for the campus

By Sage Um
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee alumni ﬁlled
campus this past weekend in celebration
of alumni weekend.

Alums visited the campus and re-
united with former classmates, faculty
and current students. More than 1000
alums walked along the Colonnade and

NATO Secretary General reaches

recalled their favorite W&L memories.
This weekend honored Class of 1961

for their 50th reunion. The classes of

1966, 1971, 1976, 1981, 1986, 1991 and

1996 also celebrated reunions.

The weekend began with an opening
assembly on Thursday in Lee Chapel.

out to students

W&L students speciﬁcally asked to attend by the organization

By Steele Burrow
STA F F WRITE R

This past Thursday, a group of Wash-
ington and Lee students attended a lun-
cheon and speech by Anders Fogh Ras-
mussen, the Secretary General of NATO,
at Johns Hopkins’ School of Advanced
International Studies in Washington,
D.C. Rasmussen previously served as
the Prime Minister of Denmark and as
the leader of Venstre, Denmark’s largest
political party. The talk at S.A.l.S. was
the last stop in NATO’s recent “Allies in
America” tour that also included stops in
Atlanta, Austin, and Chicago.

Washington and Lee received a
special invitation to the talk as a result of
German Professor Dan Kramer’s Spring
Term 2010 class in Germany. Kramer’s
class spent a weekend in Brussels, where
they visited the European Commission
and NATO. The class made a power-
ful enough impression that N.A.T.O.’s
Oﬁice of Public Diplomacy requested
W&L’s attendance at the S.A.I.S. event.
While other schools attended, Washing-
ton and Lee was the only school to be
invited speciﬁcally at NATO’s request.

Several students from Profes-
sor Kramer’s class — Greg Franke ‘l 1,
Clark Caitlin Edgar ’12, and Clark Hil-
debrand ’ 13 — attended the talk in D.C.
“I found the Secretary General’s speech
to be very‘ interesting and informative,”

Franke said, “especially given NATO’s
public role in Libya and the death of
Osama bin Laden.”

The German department also
extended the invitation to other mem-
bers of the W&L community via Ger-
man students, as well as students already
in D.C. for Washington Term. Following
the talk, the W&L group had the oppor-
tunity to have a group photo with the
Secretary General.

A primary purpose of the U.S.
tour was for the Secretary General to
communicate with American students.
NATO’s 2012 summit will be held in the
U.S., so the tour helped to lay ground-
work for possible topics and issues that
will arise at that meeting.

At his D.C. event; Secretary
General Rasmussen began with an over-
view of NATO’s fundamental purpose
and outlined organizational goals for the
future prosperity of its member states.
NATO may have begun as a Cold War-
era institution, but the Secretary General
emphasized the expansion of its man-
date to a post-Cold War purpose. “As
the world changes,” Rasmussen said in
his rich Danish accent, “NATO needs to
change too.”

Rasmussen laid a three-point
framework for NATO’s future that con-

Retiring Provost June Aprille delivered
the keynote address.

The rest of the weekend was ﬁlled
with various receptions, panel discus-
sions, open houses and parties

Returning alums elected new mem-
bers of the Alumni Board and gave the

sisted of commitment,
capabilities, and con-
nectivity. This para-
digm will demand that
the allies ﬁnd what he
described as “new coin-
mon answers to new
common challenges.”
Fiscal responsibility
plays no small part in
this objective. For a
more uniﬁed and effi-
cient “smart defense,” n»
he emphasized, the or-
ganization must stress
cohesion and coopera-
tion that capitalizes on
joint investments for increased savings.
Rasmussen commented briefly
on the recent killing of Osama bin Lad-
en. He congratulated the US. on the suc-
cessful operation and noted the strategic
signiﬁcance of killing al-Qaeda’s long-
timeleader. “Bin Laden stood against all
those values that NATO has defended
for over six decades: freedom, democ-
racy, and humanity,” he said.
“It is now obvious that his evil
ideology is bankrupt."
During the question and an-
swer session following his speech, the
Secretary General delved into signiﬁ-

.;.. 4.. I" .-:

Washington Award to Roger Mudd ’50,
an award-winning journalist.

The university also honored John A.
Cocklereece ’76, Clifford K. Holekamp
’96 and Dr. E. Darracott Vaughan Jr. ’6l
with Distinguished Alumni Awards.

Alums gave back to the school as

Pofessor Kramrs German sudents ere ase sciﬁ—
cally by NATO to attend Secretary General Rasmussen's
speech last Thursday.

cant detail on current NATO operations
that can be more controversial. NATO
is currently involved in multiple armed
conﬁicts abroad, notably Afghanistan,
Iraq, and Libya, in addition to anti-pira-
cy efforts off the coast of Somalia and
peacekeeping efforts in Kosovo. By the
Secretary General’s count, 350,000 sol-
diers are currently committed to NATO
operations around the world.
Rasmussen also said that
NATO would continue to play a role
in supporting Afghanistan and assisting
Libya with a transition to democracy.
Afghanistan, he said, will “be able to
stand on its own feet, but will not stand

well. The classes of 1961 and 1986 con-
tributed $3.5 million.

This weekend also gave a chance for
current students to reunite with recent
graduates at a band party in Red Square
Saturday night.

THE PMJI. H. mrzie sciimii. or ADVANCED INTEFSHATEQNAL STUDJES
THE ]OHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY

I,=,,. .. fa»

STEELE BURROW/ head photographer

alone.” This statement was particularly
signiﬁcant, as NATO has a 2014 dead-
line for ending most control of combat
operations in Afghanistan.

Greg Franke, the senior and
veteran of Professor Kramer"s Spring
Term class, found the speech to be a
welcome opportunity before an upcom-
ing deadline of his own. “Attending the

Secretary General’s speech almost ex- ,

actly one year after our visit in Brussels
was a very appropriate way to end my
college career.”

Seniors to jet-set worldwide after grad

W&L ’s three Fulbright recepients leave Lexington to teach and research in Europe and Caribbean

By Leigh Dannhauser
STAF F WRITE R

Three Washington and Lee University students
are recipients of the Fulbright Scholarship, a schol-
arship awarded through the Institute of Intemation-
al Education to 1,500 undergraduate and graduate
students throughout the nation.

The application process takes roughly seven
months to complete, from April to October. Each
year between thirteen to nineteen Washington and
Lee students apply, according to Washington and
Lee Professor George Bent..

This year seniors Hannah Muther, Yasmine Es-
pert and Christian Roden received the scholarship.

Bent, the adviser of the Fulbright Program at
W&L, said that it is “quite an honor to be a recipi-
ent” of the grant. -

   

“Odds for them to get the awards were extreme-
ly long” Bent said.

The Fulbright Scholarship includes two types
of grants. One is the English teaching assistantship
grant. This grant allows the winner to go to a for-
eign country and teach English to its natives.

Muther received an English teaching assistant-
ship grant. She will be heading to Saxony, a state in
Germany, to teach English to middle school or high
school students. _

“[Hannah will] be a terriﬁc teacher, students will
love her” Bent said in a telephone interview.

Applicants may also received a research grant.
The research grant sends students to engage in in-
dependent research in a foreign country.

1.’

 

'I_ I. '

Barbados

 

Both Espert and Roden are recipients of the re-
search grant. Espert is researching and curating an
exhibit with the Barbados Art Council. While there,
she will be taking master’s level courses in the cul-
tural studies program at the University of the West
Indies.

Roden, who could not be reached, is researching
in France.

Applicants for both grants" apply to a speciﬁc
country. The competitiveness of the application
process depends on the country.

Bent said that the fact that these students got
their grants speaks to the quality of their work. He
said Roden’s success is particularly notable as it is
extremely difﬁcult for an undergraduate student to

receive the scholarship to France.

“Undergraduates don’t just get grants to
France” Bent explained. “It speaks to the quality of
[Roden’s] project.”

All three recipients are excited to receive the
grants and puruse their projects and studies.

“I was very excited, to say the least” Muther
said. “I have wanted to apply for Fulbright for a
long time, and I spent a long time waiting to hear
back, and it was a relief to ﬁnally hear the good
news.” V

Espert also felt relieved when she found out
she’d received the grant.

“I felt at peace when I got the letter in the mail"
Espert explained. “ltjust felt right.”

 

 

- . N.
'1'?!-.
-r-r
I-.}‘t_
. '1' ~P..\_ _
Ir’-' Q .'
\_ . '1 "7:
’, "2 ,.*’ '
. .- W.
- ‘-3 ii":
. I
. I K ‘
o‘ '
"N. ‘ I - .-'-“I
‘v _._ ; ', _ , _ -._I
t- »'I _I N._ ”' .»* ‘-,3’
I. f_.- ._ _ . .1‘ ;__i P
' .- ‘--“.1 -‘E I: 2'
I 1,; I,‘ X - ‘I ’);":.¥
. -. . ' ..  I
2 Flu Lb‘ '‘.a {I (,."..
, ‘ .. -,\_ ,-~.. 2.»
‘ .r R-.\'-5-._ﬁ I’. ‘if
3,.»  -. I .» -if
 -It -._' _ _.- {ﬁg -.,‘I__
I' "-.4-,_, -1 ‘-
I.
'3.  ‘V I__a‘l.,;§-‘,:“_l-
' . .. " 1
', ‘W __.I- _, _..r '3 I‘
_V " I” ,‘ .." ' '‘'-._,'' I
K v .-"I _: ~‘ .-B "
. 1
2
— f: . ‘ .'
‘.-' -. I
-t - I
__ ~ .__,r . 
_.«* .' __x
at’...

 

  

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

WI? ‘I 7.2M]

2 ~ THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MAYl6,20Il

Opinions

 

Frat’s food revolution

Fraternity cooking is changing for the better and helping members reﬁne their palates

By Stockton Bullitt
OPINIONS EDITOR

In a school so deeply embedded in
tradition, ongoing revolutions are usu-
ally rare and not terribly emphasized.
Furthermore, we don’t tend to pay atten-
tion to things that aren’t that sexy.

If there is an ongoing revolution in
the registrar, say a controversial new
registration process, or a new revolution
in the way parties are conducted, say an
earlier shut down time due to a neighbor-
hood of families wanting to sleep, they
are covered ad nauseam. However, when
there is an actual revolution currently
happening in an area that the campus
usually takes for granted like food ser-
vice, we turn a blind eye.

Back in the day, food in fraternities
was considered to be the lowest of the
low. Achieving heights barely above the
cuisine served in Oliver’s Orphanage, the
food was supposed to provide some kind
of sustenance in between keg stands.

Nowadays, fraternities are in the pro-
cess of progressively switching to a new
kind of eating. By hiring new chefs with
a passion for their profession, food is not
only getting better but it is promoting a
more reﬁned overall lifestyle.

This new style of cooking fraternity
food has two new mantras driving the
process: food is fun and food is educa-
tional. Now, on the surface this sounds
pretty stupid. I could promote toilet pa-
per as being both potentially fun and
educational, and that doesn’t mean that

you will start looking at toilet paper in

a new way. However, these new frater-
nity chefs have the passion and ingenuity
to make fraternity cuisine both fun and
educational. They are driven by compli-
ments, not paychecks.

You will not see this revolution go-
ing on during the day. Let’s face it, when
guys eat lunch, they don’t want ingenu-
ity or originality; they want something
fried and something quick to eat on the

way to class. So don’t expect to see any-
thing change in fraternity dining while
the sun is up.

But when the sun goes down, you will
start seeing a change. Dinners at frater-
nity houses are no longer being dictated
by Pasta Wednesdays or Leftover Thurs-
days, but rather, this new breed of chef
treats dinner much more seriously.

Dinner is now suddenly turning into
French class. “Reheated frozen ﬁsh
with some orange stuff thrown on top”
is now turning into “Swordﬁsh Conﬁt
D’Oignon.” Cultures are moving from
the classroom to the stomach as Poly-
nesian ribs and Irish cabbages are in-
troduced into the equation. Suddenly,
eating dinner is becoming a class in and
of itself. These frat dinners are becom-
ing training grounds for succeeding in
the many foreign places where the frat
members will eventually end up.

Just because food is becoming more
educational doesn’t mean that it can’t be
fun. Without security having to worry,
handles of alcohol are making their way

into the kitchen, where they are now be-

ing used to cook the food.

The ingenuity of these new chefs is
being fully utilized in the form of theme
dinners that vary from Medieval Night,
where foot long carrots and turkey legs
are served without plates, to Titanic’s
Last Meal, where the last meal served on

the ﬁrst deck on the Titanic is replicated

for students.

By keeping dinner interesting and
fun, these chefs are breeding a sense
of camaraderie among the fraternities.
Rarely is the whole fraternity ever in the
same place, except for dinner, and din-
ner is one of the few times that you ac-
tually spend time with people other than
your inner circle of friends. By creating
a fun and exciting atmosphere around
dinner, these chefs are giving these rela-

tive strangers a shared experience to talk
about. I know this seems like it’s going a
little too far, but believe me, theme din-
ners can dissipate even the most conten-
tious of intra-fratemity rivalries.

There is still a leaming curve for
these new chefs. Coming from restau-
rants instead Of other fraternities, these
chefs are not akin to serving a large
quantity of food to be eaten buffet style.
This causes a change in the process, and
creates some bumps along the way, espe-
cially when serving gnocchi swordﬁsh...
not that I’m complaining.

Still, there is an essential element to
this revolution that is vital in saving the
fraternity process. It’s no secret that the
fraternity system is slowly dying here at
Washington and Lee. Whether we talk
about years or decades, the fraternity
system will be eventually phased out of
the W&L culture. ,

To stop this trend, there either needs
to be a huge event preventing fraternities
from ever leaving,‘ or a series of small
events that will prolong fraternity extinc-
tion or keep it living for a long period of
time. I don’t really ‘see how one big event
can permanently save fraternities, espe-
cially with such a big faction of Lexing-
ton vehemently opposing the tradition.

Although this little revolution won’t
save fraternities by itself, the emergence
of passionate fraternity chefs is absolute-
ly vital to saving the fraternity system
because their actions bring out the best
that fraternities have to offer. See, frater-
nities are all about cultivation. The idea
behind them is that these institutions
cultivate old boys into young men. Their
advertised product is a civilized, mature
young man who is both knowledgeable
of the world around him and the people
he interacts with.

By introducing them to proper cuisine
and proper dining habits, these chefs are

cultivating the old boy into
an erudite food consumer.
Business is not just done
in ofﬁces but on play-
ing ﬁelds and restaurants.
Parents hire golf, tennis
and squash coaches for
speciﬁc reasons; shOuldn’t
they also entrust their chil-
dren to a kind of teaching
that will let their kids learn
about what it means to or-
der the right food?

Furthermore, unlike the
vast educational institu-
tions which also advertise
cultivation of the demean-
or as much as cultivation
of the intellect (the Honor
Code’s roll in W&L re-
cruitment is a good ex-
ample), fraternities claim
to cultivate the man through close, per-
sonal interactions that the educational
institutions cannot provide. Fraternities
are supposed to aid you in becoming the
man you want to be. So if you are inter-
ested in the culinary arts as a fad, hobby,
or even a profession, how is micro-
waved General Tso’s Chicken enticing
you in any way to develop that interest?

By throwing themselves passionately
into their profession, these new chefs
are enticing their fraternity members to
unearth a hidden interest in the culinary
arts.

Finally, these chefs are creating the
cultivated man by serving as teachers.
When I came to college, my parents ad-
vised me to take at least one economics
and accounting class, not because they
wanted me to sell my soul and become
an accountant, but because they thought
it was important that I know how to
manage my money. Well, these fraternity
chefs are now teaching their profession

LM_ q

KA’s Chef Derek and Beta’S ChefJohn are lead-
ing the frat food revolution.

to their students, the fraternity members,
not because there are aspiring cooks in
the audience but because every culti-
vated man needs to know how to cook
at least something for himself in order to
survive. ,

These three factors the new chefs
are bringing to the table are exclusive to
the Greek system. D-Hall has too many
students to feed to experiment and work
with students, and the Co-Op and Hillel
House grills don’t serve dinners the same
way.

The chefs are bringing with them a
new fraternity culture of camaraderie
and culinary appreciation. Maybe this
won’t block the sea of anti-fraternity
sentiment, but- it has helped slow the tide
and made fraternity life a much more
positive experience.

And even though we are not at the
promised land of fraternity cooking yet,
the future is smelling mighty delicious.

Fear and Loathing in the W&L sorority cafeterias

Columnist/lli Greenberg pleads for the women of W&L

By All Greenberg
STAFF WRITER

Seeing as this is the last issue of the
year and it is my understanding that a
school paper should be a medium to dis-
cuss things that are actually current and
important on campus, I ﬁgured, why not

take a shot at a serious article for once.
From gender relations to intergreek
camaraderie to our attitudes about drink-
ing and partying (partying, yeah!) we
have very twisted perceptions about

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
MICHAEL FREEMAN
ALI GREENBERG
SALLY PLATT F
SAGE UM

ANGELA WILLIAMS

campus
life at
. llr’.I.~3:r.~II;zI:IIi.I.~1:~ LrJ.‘I.lII.'I.'aa5In“ Wash-
’ . ington &
THE RING-TUM PHI.  
these is-
‘ sues are
MANAGING EDITOR DIANDRA SPICAK just that,
NEwS EDITOR ELEANOR KENNEDY issues.
OPINIONSEDITOR STOCKTON BULLITT Self-
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR HOLLY SUTHERS evident
SPORTS EDITOR JAYNA JOHNS truths
COPY EDITORS ‘JULIANNA SATTERLY that can
be hard
‘STAFF WRITERS STEELE BURROW to accept

and harder to ﬁght or change.

We live in a warped reality. A bubble.
And while I may joke about the differ-
ences between Yankees and debs, the
differences are very real. Similar divides
are persistent between those who come
from private or public schools, white and
multicultural students, and Greeks and
independents.

These divides are generally unspo-
ken. They seem to exist without rules or
formal segregation, yet the social atti-
tudes and cultural or background differ-
ences remain ever apparent.

And one of the largest divides I ﬁnd
is the one between those who claim to
be united. Within and between our Greek
organizations there is tension, especially
in the Pan-Hellenic community. And as
much as it hurts me to admit it, there are

often times I ammdisappointed by our
lunch and dinner conversations at the
sorority houses.

to end the hate and be the change they wish to see on campus

judging other girls. “Do you think she is

pretty?”, “She gets around”, “Why are
guys into her? ljust don’t see it.” “Who
is the prettiest girl in that

Rarely are there complimentary
conversations about girls for some-

thing other than being thin or dress-

ing well.

pledge class?”

Rarely are there com-
plimentary conversations
about girls for something
other than being thin or
dressing well. Forget about
being acknowledged for
being smart, a leader on

  Campus OI" 8. kllld pCI'SOl’l.

The former generally follow a boys
and beer pattern, while the latter usu-
ally consist of talking about other girls.
And while this obviously isn’t all we
talk about, I have heard and, admittedly,
taken part in many conversations of girls

If another girl dates your
ex, you are automatically “so much cuter
than her,” especially considering that she
became a slut and a bitch overnight.

Some D-Hall facts to munch on

An integral part of every ﬁrst year ’s experience, D-Hall is a unique place

By Sally Platt
STAFF WRITER

DESIGN EDITOR

HEAD PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
STEELE BURROW
MATT GOSSETT
KELLY LANE

JOE MORAVEC
ZABRIAWN SMITH
EVAN SHARBER
DAVE WILSON

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Freshmen, we’re almost done with the
ﬁrst year! Only one more week left of....D-
Hall and then on to frat, srat, etc. ‘food.

I know it’s the thing to hate on D-Hall try-
ing to be cool by saying, “Oh, I barely eat
there anymore.” I have to admit there are
those meals that make you think, “They to-
tally D-Halled this pizza.” But seriously, D-
Hall isn’t that bad. I mean, it’s certainly part
of the freshman experience. Plus, some of the
people who work there are easily the nicest
people in the world. So I just wanted to list
a few reasons why I think it’s pretty cool be-
fore we all leave for the summer and come
back as oh-so-cool-sophomores.

Sweet D-Hall facts:

1. We have practically unlimited swipes.
Seriously, if you wanted tolget obese this
would be the place to go.

2. The really weird pizzas that have been
around lately. PB&J and banana? Bacon and
peanut butter? Smores? I mean, it keeps life
interesting.

3. Ketchup! I love ketchup on literally
everything and there is just so much of it.
Makes. ‘Me. Happy.

4. Omelettes on Sunday! Is there a bet-
ter way to recuperate from the night before?
Plus, the thirty minute wait just makes you
enjoy them all the more. (And let’s be hon-
est, this is probably the only time all week
that you make it for breakfast food. I know
getting up early in the morning can be quite
a challenge.)

5. Whipped cream! There is this huge
glass bowl of it put out every brunch. My fa-
vorite thing to do isjust eat a whole plate full.
It’s the little things in life.

6. Seeing everyone you know all the time.
Or... ’

7. Not being able to avoid anyone, ever.
That guy you DFM’d with last night? Yeah,
he’ll be there.

8. Getting locked in by the grate during
O-week and making the interesting walk
through the kitchen. (This didn’t happen to
everyone but it was an experience.)

9. Foreign dinners! Yeah for having indi-
an, hawaiian and african food, then talking to
people from those countries. They might not
think so, but it tasted good to me.

10. Fro-yo machine! I mean, it’s frozen

yogurt, right? It has to be healthy. Yay for
guilt-free ice cream. (I won’t even say any-
thing about the Green Tea stuff.)

11. Unlimited Diet Coke: the perfect caf-
feine boost to get you through that ten page
paper you forgot to write until a few hours
before it was due.

12. Personal pasta! The equivalent of O1-
ive Garden in a basement. -

13. Finally, people watching. We know
we do it. Who is sitting with whom, watch-
ing frats and srats slowly congregate as the
year goes by, what everyone is wearing. Not
to sound like a stalker or anything; it’s just
fascinating.

So let’s live up this last week before free-
dom and summer and mom’s cooking! Be-
cause really, nothing can ever beat that. Well,
maybe Sunday Omelettes. But I’m cool,
right? So I’m never in D-Hall for those.

It

‘I.

 

YOURNEXT

* GR AT
  ADVENTURE
STARTS  

AT YOUR LOCAL
' JEEP DEALER

A

12011 COMPASS SPORT 41:4

‘ $1,000 + 5500

51' MER COLLEIZSE eeabumyem
(C:-ihl§}H ALLOCIWANCE BONUS CASH‘

OR

 36rmi;l+ $500

CDLLEGEGRADUATBM.

BONUS cAsI-If

     

201'! WRANGLER UNLIMITED SPORT 4-X4

$55500 + 5500

l N G E N U l N E .c:.c:iLLEeEV GR.AEJLlATE’H.l

M O pA  BONUS CASH

‘ii ACCESSORIES

 

Time to trade in your cap and gown and prepare yourself for the real werld in a new 2011 Jeep
Wrangler or Jeep Compass. Take advantage of these special offers and yoi.i'll be ready to embark on
the next chapter of your life and avoid any obstacle in your path from behind the wheel of your stylish,
well-built and incredibly capable Jeep 4:-<4.‘

‘R Jeep 

JEERCDM

{l)Eligibh:- c1,i'j!t:.In-;*rr:. ml.-4.1 :31: .7: v:_:-:_2l|i:*.gr;- gradu-31!? r:-r’ rcccnﬂ Culleglj gr._1-tiunl,-*_* .:mr,:| must meet I12-r‘»I:' :}f {Pm h_';l:‘r,>w:Ir-J L’_‘FllI_" ﬁr =_;;r.i:mi‘:l r-E: 1'1 .’_3'ir_' nu:-3-ll: 6 m-zanlhz. with any
. degree gr.:|r:L1.‘_1m-:_4. err '.h4..* l.,1'_«'! Z‘ '_.!o;3m't. wilh any éiizgrxim, (‘IF r_‘urrr311t|3.r ¢)I'ltl;)Hl’;‘d in .,1 Tl‘-l._I.';t$?l"$ (gr (l-:;v:j’t<)r.1| ggri-:-i_;r.:lin l§‘w-.i:l—.:‘-n:'y r-rv-,.lri-:‘l::__:»'1; .;1p-ply ‘Sm; (103519? for details.
” (2)036 APR ‘.in.‘nr1(mg l‘r‘_:-r '53l~L- int;-nlhs Q‘-Z‘}l,li.Il‘5 S;3_;’,I-‘El per r’mjz'1ll1 per $l_U{)I1}lirmn.4:e-d lfllr-it-uglli Alsy f—i."1.1r"uj‘ml w~1*ll~v:'xii.ilrlit-:: :i.l'_.«"'r-. %':'l‘. ?I:.~‘I+a rlrwm Nm all l’}Ll’y’-l}l’$ wilrl qualify.
(3)5500 MOPAR Buick‘: -23~l‘c.*-r L1-;i:«'r:;f er‘ 1'-:Icto=r‘g.r hi: dealer r+:ix11burseI11eI11. Dealer Cﬂntribuliun r=m:..- al'fr,-M rin._r :.:"::i:  1»; S-liviiifl M SF!“ I-I'|.1§U“.~ St:-6: dualrzr lrhr details. Mursl
{aka retail rJr—_-,!i'.:-lg-ry frr_m1 p.i.".!l-:_ ip.;i1;inn:_.1 r_ir3¢lr:r by fl.-'V.3.’l,r"l1 31:90 ._|nr.:| MC~F‘.~'&‘R an: reg-isurred l;r.gds_-i11¢_1r?<r,.. of [:llf:y“_-III}! =Z'3'i_:ru|_".-- , 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

UNIVERSITY s TORE

Celebrating “a place like no other”

~ Congratulates the Class of2011! p
  \        * K‘/T;
Baccalaureate Service \§
Wednesday, May 25      

      10:00 a.m.  
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

    

Graduation
Thursday, May 26
10:00 a.m.
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

celebrate this accomplishment
, with
a special remembrance gift!

GRADUATION SPECIAL STORE HOURS
  Saturday, May 21, 10:00 a.m. — 5:00p.m.
Sunday, May 22, 10:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.  

A Thank you for helping the University
by patronizing your UNIVERSITY STORE!

All revenues go directly towards University scholarships, salaries and
the Washington and Lee operating budget.

 

 

MONDAY, MAY 16,2011

5’- THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

arts&|ife

‘WLUR th

By Paige Gance
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

WLUR, Washington and Lee’s radio
station, threw its ﬁrst Spring Fling cel-
ebration with performances by a student
group, a local band, and an indie folk
band called The Cotton Jones.

W&L senior Julie Slonecki played
guitar and sang with Scotty Groth on
bass and Scott Harisson on drums, appro-
priately calling themselves Julie and the
Scotts. Julie is no stranger to perform-
ing at W&L, having played on several of
WLUR’s live radio shows. .

After Julie and the Scotts concluded

what Scott Matarese called “the best-

performance I’ve seen from them yet,”
the Cinnamon Band took its place in the
commons. This two-person local band is
based out of Staunton, Va. and special-
izes in southern rock.

To conclude the evening, The Cotton
Jones performed a number of lively songs
to much applause from the crowd gath-

ered in Elrod Commons. Some know the
band by its previous name, Page France.

Planning for the event started shortly
after February Break, according to Mata-
rese, and WLUR station director Jeremy
Franklin and director of Elrod Com-
mons Kelsey Goodwin collaborated on
what acts to bring to campus and other
logistics. Originally, the concert was to
be held outside, but inclement weather
forced the location change.

Matarese said that WLUR hopes to
make Spring Fling an annual occurrence
and attract an even larger audience.

W&L’s own Julie and the Scotts performed alongside Staunton—based Cinnamon
Band at WLUR’s Spring Fling.

rows Spring Fling

Students and rock bands perform at the first annual Spring Term concert

  

PAIGE GANCE/ arts & life editor

Play celebrates Lexington history

Theater and Journalism Professors collaborate on “Letters to the Editor ” theater production

By Michael Freeman
STA F F w RITE R

Washington and Lee will feature a
new theater production titled “Letters
to the Editor” that incorporates a com-
pilation of letters written to Lexington’s

News-Gazette over the course of nearly

200 years. The performances will take
place May 19th, 20th, and 21st, at 7:30
p.m. at Theater at Lime Kiln.‘

The idea was the brainchild of Gerald
Stropnicky a member of a Bloomsburg,
Pa. theater ensemble. W&L journalism
professor Pam Luecke suggested the
idea to theater professor Kimberly Jew

who immediately saw potential in the
project.

“It stayed in my mind for about a year
and a half or so,” says Jew. “When I had
sabbatical I wasn’t directing or doing
anything creative, and I was thinking, ‘I
want to do something, youpknow, really
do something.’ I miss it. So I contacted
her [Pam Luecke] and she was still in-
terested in trying to put the pieces to-
gether.”

Jew then contacted journalism pro-
fessor Doug Cumming, who was inter-

ested in collaborating on the project.

“What it came down to is, I had a
summer free; Kimberly Jew had a sum-
mer free,” says Cumming.” “My inter-
est, my academic scholarly specialty is
media history, so it was perfect. We both
applied for Lenfest grants and RE. Lee
Summer Scholar grants.”

The grants afforded Cumming with
numerous hands to sift through over
8,000 letters. Eventually 120 were se-
lected to be used in the performance.
Jew’s fall term theater class was then

responsible for transforming these let-
ters into a concrete, dramatic piece. The
selected letters seek to convey certain
universal themes.

“There are certainly themes of poli-
tics, self-governance, and themes of
daily life,” says Jew. “How do we all
live together in a rural, town-gown com-
munity? There is a lot of diversity here.
lt may not be ethically, but there are a
lot of people from difference parts ofthe
country, different social and economic
class, religious beliefs, and ages.”

Jew wants this play to acquaint stu-
dents with local issues and enhance their
knowledge of Lexington’s history. She
also hopes students develop a deeper re-
spect for humanity in general from this
performance.

“I hope they leave with a sense that
people are people. I think that’s one of
the funniest things. You can read from
people from the nineteenth century and
the language and the prose is different,
but the thought is the same.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE

  lg University Store ‘9

Celebrating “a place like no other”

Undergraduate Students 1
DO YOU WANT

CASH FOR SUMMER?

Finished Exams? Before leaving campus,

bringyour books to the Elr0d C0mmUnS Atrium ’ ,

Textbook Buyback!

. . . Get cash (up to 50% of value of book)!

. . . Help your store obtain more used and cheaper books for future semesters!

6 Days in the Elrod Commons’ Atrium
Thursday & Friday, May 19 & 20, 9 a.m. — 6 p.m.

‘ Saturday & Sunday, May 21 & May 22, 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.

Monday & Tuesday, May 23 & 24, 9 a.m. — 6 p.m.

 

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHl -

sport

 

MONDAY, MAYl6,20ll

Track tries for national meet  

Three Washington and Lee‘ athletes Competed in track meets last week in effort to qualify for the NCAA tournament

By Angela Williams .
STAF F WRITE R

Despite the end of Washington and
Lee track’s regular season, a few ‘of the
W&L track stars still had one last meet
to compete in.

On Thursday, sophomore Dylan
Mills represented the men’s track team
at the Roanoke/Virginia Tech Last
Chance meet in his attempt to qualify for
the NCAA Division 111 Championship
Meet. Mills’s specialty ofjavelin helped

' him to set a new school record.

He entered the meet ranked 15th
nationally, and ﬁnished ﬁrst as well

/

N HLer Boogaard’s brain donated fortr

By Dave Campbell
AP spoars WRITER

ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) -— Derek
Boogaard’s relatives and fans shed tears
Sunday as they remembered the former
NHL tough guy as a “teddy bear” who
was as generous and kind as he was bur-
ly and tough, a somber end to a week-
end during which his distraught family
agreed to donate his brain to medical
researchers. 1

The 28-year-old Boogaard was found
dead in his Minneapolis apartment Fri-
day, ﬁve months after he sustained a
season-ending concussion with the New
York Rangers.

Boogaard’s agent and a spokeswom-

an for the Boston University School of
Medicine conﬁnned Sunday that his
brain will be examined for signs of a
degenerative disease often found in ath-
letes who sustain repeated hits to the
head. .
“lt’s an amazing thing he did and his
family did. Hopefully, that’ll bring some
information,” agent Ron Salcer said._
“We don’t know exactly the impact that
the concussions might have played.”

Salcer spent three days with Boogaard
in Los Angeles earlier in the week. Sal-
cer remarked about his client’s bright-
ened demeanor, after suffering through a
winter of not being able to play or even
be active while his head healed.

“He seemed very good, and that’s
what makes it more painful,” Salcer
said. “He was really starting to feel bet-
ter about everything. He was in great
shape.” J

Minneapolis police said there were
no outward signs of trauma, but results
of an autopsy are expected to take sev-
eral weeks. There is no known con-
cussion connection to his death, but at
Boogaard’s wish his family signed pa-
pers to donate his brain to the BU Center
for the Study ofTraumatic Encephalopa-

as breaking the current school record,
which he already held at 60.99 meters,
with his most recent throw of61.04 me-
ters. Mills is the only General to ever
throw the javelin farther than 60 meters.

Though his throws were long enough

to qualify for the national tournament, he

will not know if he will continue on for
a few more days, as only a select number
of athletes are chosen to compete.
Members of the W&L women’s track
team also had a good showing last week,
as they competed on Wednesday at

thy. The donation was ﬁrst reported by
the Star Tribune of Minneapolis.

Salcer said Boogaard was approached
by researchers after the death of former
NHL enforcer Bob Probert, who died
last year at the age of 45. The BU cen-
ter found evidence in Probert’s brain of
the chronic traumatic encephalopathy,
which is associated with cognitive and
behavioral problems and eventually
causes dementia. '

“He had had a concussion. They
played similar styles,” Salcer said.

The center also found previously that
Reggie Fleming, a 1960s tough guy who
played before helmets became manda-
tory, had CTE, as did Dave Duerson, an
NFL star whose brain was donated after
he committed suicide.

Boogaard’s parents, Len and Joanne,
sister, Kyrsten, and brothers, Aaron,
Ryan and Curtis, all attended the memo-
rial inside Xcel Energy Center, where
the 6-foot-7, 265-pound enforcer be-
came a fan favorite with the Minnesota
Wild for his ﬁghting prowess despite
scoring all of two goals in ﬁve seasons
with the team. They did not address the
cause of Boogaard‘s death or comment
on his decision to donate his brain to sci-
ence.

Ryan politely declined to be inter-
viewed in detail after the event. He said
he was already in town to visit his broth-
er, before they all planned to attend their
sister’s graduation ceremony at Kansas
University next weekend.

With a few hundred fans, many
wearing replicas of Boogaard‘s No. 24
jersey with the Wild, standing in the
arena lobby, general manager Chuck
Fletcher, former teammate Wes Walz
and Boogaard’s sister and brother took
turns telling stories and reading tributes.

The memorial sprouted from a Face-

‘In.

‘.


Cﬂa/aoaﬁ2077

 .a-.' ' “‘

fﬁwm you/L ouppwrtew in’

Ca2tee;rSe/wice/5

er.ecreat.cawtweme(ca;ree;muat.edu)

0 (3amp€etetﬁeSeniwLSuweg,—
r;aumigﬁtwina$7(J(}‘Ui/.5aQiftCa2td

- fi'utt;awweZ,€antFreQItaduateA’./l/lap‘-
Ketgfauxﬂitiendaﬁnawwﬁeiwgauudiﬂﬂe

fl’icfé up yawn  cf 
May 18-20 & May 23-24, 10-4 ~
eaadeanumm 319

j the game,”

_Wake Forest University in the two-day

Deacons Combined Events.

Competing in her ﬁrst heptathlon
ever, sophomore Marissa Thompson
came up just short of qualifying for the
NCAA Division 111 Championship Meet
after putting up a score of 4,023 points,
just shy of the 4,100 point qualifying
mark. Despite not making the cut for the
national meet, Thompson’s ﬁrst heptath-
lon appearance was quite successful.

She placed 1 1th among all competing
athletes at the meet and 4th in Division

book page
urging fans
to gather
at the are-
na for a
candlelight
vigil. Ka-
tie Haag,
the creator,
had tears
stream-
ing down
her face
as she and
her friend,
Shelby
Leske,
talked
about how
much they
enjoyed
watching
Boogaard
play.
“That’s

kind of
what made
me love

\

Haag said.
» Aaron

thanked fans for showing up, but he was
too choked up to read. Kyrsten took over
and_remembered her brother as a com-
fort provider — dependable, big, cuddly,
loving and loyal. 9 '

“Derek was dependable to a fault.
You could depend on him for anything
you needed. At any time, your priority
became his priority,” she said.

Ryan then took over the reading as
Kyrsten sobbed into her dad’s shoulder.

“Derek was a teddy bear and will al-
ways be our teddy bear,” he said._

A funeral is planned for Saturday in

Greek Specialties
& American Cuisine

§_l_;R\"lN('§_

I11 competition. Thompson completed
the 100m hurdles in 16.48 seconds,
sprinted the .200m in 26.18 sec, and
raced the 800m in 2:34.20. For thejump-
ing portion, Thompson cleared 1.42 me-
ters and 4.80 meters in the high jump
and long jump, respectively. In terms of
her throwing ability, she tossed the jav-
elin 26.90 meters and launched the shot
put a distance of9.33 meters.

First-year Leigh Dannhauser also had
an impressive end to her rookie season,
competing in the heptathlon and ﬁnish-

Regina, Saskatchewan.

Fans left ﬂowers at a table in the
lobby, and a replica of his jersey was
on display. Boogaard’s family took a
few minutes to observe the makeshift
shrine before departing. Then the song
“Amazing Grace" broke out from the
group while clips of Boogaard’s chari-
table work and playing career played on
television screens overhead.

Walz was joined by former Wild
teammates Niklas Backstrom, Andrew
Brunette, Brent Burns, Stephane Veil-
leux and Nick Schultz at the event, with
several front office officials and team

Rreak.fast~ Lunch- Dinner.

'(Break_fast served all day!)

~ Tuesday-Thursday: 7AM - 9PM

Friday and Saturday: 7AM — 10PM

‘Sunday: 7AM — 3PM
Closed Mondays
' i

Lunch and Dinner Specials!

Carry Out Available

Go Greek at Niko’s!

167 South Main Street _
T Lexington, VA

Phone: 540.464.9499
Fax: 540.464.1226

Look‘ for menu at www.nikosgri1l-cafe.com

Great food & a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toysl

ing with an overall 17th place ﬁnish of
2,539 points. Her running portion con-
sisted of a 19.60 second ﬁnish in the
100m, 32.18 in 200m, and 3:20.10 in the
800m. She cleared the highjump at 1.51
meters and posted a 4.02 meter mark on
the long jump. Her throws ended with
25.88 meters for the javelin and 6.74
meters in the shot put.

This meet ofﬁcially marked the end
of the Generals’ seasons. v

auma research *-

   

Copyright 2010, The Associated Press

FlLE — In this Nov. 4, 2010, ﬁle photo, Philadel hia F|yers’Jody Shelley, left, and New York Rang-
ers’ Derek Boogaard ﬁght durin an NHL hoc ey game in Philadelphia. Boogaard, at age 28,

died on Friday. Boogaard signe with the Rangers as a free a
games last season, registering one goal and one assist. (AP P

gent in Ju|y,2010 appearing in 22
oto/Matt Slocum, File)

employees there as well.

“To all his teammates on all his
teams, we know that you thought  he
was your comfort,” Kyrsten said. “In
reality, every day, you guys gave Derek
reason to come to work.”

AP National Writer Nancy Armour in
Chicago, AP Sports Writer Jimmy Golen
in Boston and Associated Press Writer
Amy Forliti in Minneapolis contributed
to this report.

201 1

Copyright The Associated

Press.

Ea/zéa '¢. zeetaoozaat

PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN Tov CAFE

Located at

LEE lll. TRAVEL PLAZA

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
01' Join us for one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffers!

Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday 8. Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 11pm-2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am—11am
Daily Hot Country Bar 12Noon -10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 10:30am-10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

[-81 & 1-64. Exit 195, 2516 North Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA

540-463-3478

 

 

 
 

  
  

 JOIN THE w0I2I<I=oR(:|=-:

  E IN A N IEW RAM TR u c |(

«   AND R IE (2 EIV IE ‘(0 u R
   |'-'|R..'$T|3()NUS.‘.  

««

 

201: I-|('-.=HT IJUTY RAM
—————-----REGULAR can

$2,31om;'gLL»
  +    
$500

COLLEGE GRADUATEV“
B o N u s c A s H

   
   
   
 

‘:34

20M DM([)TI.\ 
APOR FOR MOS.“ Am"

i

4:.  COLLEGE GRADUATEW’ E
—     BONUS CASH

 
    

.4;
.,L'!:  .--.~4-
....._»..... ..., , s... :0: .

 

YOUR HAM  IS GIVING YOU ANOTHER REASON TO CELEBRATE GRADUATION. RIGHT if  
 . NOW WHEN YOU PURCHASE A LIGHT DUTY  OF: DAKOTA. WE’LL THROW AN ADEWHONAL L  
_  $500 COLLEGE GRADUATE BONUS CASH ON‘ TOP OF ALREADY GREAT OFFERS. A 4"

‘ . _‘.,; «,-.<r  2. .1  ' :.«

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MAY16,2011

sport

undeck

MON TuEs WED THURS FRI SAT SUN

Baseball

Men's

Lacrosse

Women's

Lacrosse

Men’s

Tennis

Women's

Tennis

Track

Golf

in the numbers
37'

The consecutive number of matches tennis player Novak
Djokovic has won this year, having not dropped a match yet in

3 201 1. His total number of consecutive wins is 39, and his cur-

rent streak is second behind John McEnroe’s 42-0 start in 1984.

 Ji00

The Boston Red Sox reached this batting average for the ﬁrst
time this season after sweeping the New York Yankees over
the weekend. This was the ﬁrst time the Red Sox have swept a

three-game series in the Bronx since April 2004.

}39 

Kevin Durant, of the Oklahoma City Thunder, put up this many

points against the Memphis Grizzlies on Sunday. He was com-

ing off his worst performanc in playoffs and again could not get

his shots to fall.Then, according to espn.com, he saw his mom
dancing in the stands during a timeout and loosened up, and

just like that, the ball started falling through the net..

0   $1 Million

The amount of money the Fiesta Bowl, played in Tempe, Ariz.
and part of the Bowl Championship Series, must pay as a ﬁne

for inappropriate spending of their funds, including trips to

strip clubs for Bowl executives. The BCS has announced that the

money will be donated to charities that serve Arizona youth.

 

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse
team ﬁnished it’s season last week, bringing in
one win on Wednesday and losing in the sec-
ond round of the NCAA Division 111 Touma-
ment.

The ﬁfteenth-ranked Generals took down
Christopher Newport University, 15-6, in the
ﬁrst round of the tournament in Lexington.

The game marked W&L’s ﬁrst NCAA tour-
nament win since the 2007 season.

The Generals jumped out to an early 3-1
lead; all three goals came from free position
shots. Senior Wilton Megargel put in the ﬁrst
goal a little over eight minutes into the con-
test, but 13-6 CNU answered two minutes
later with an unassisted goal. Junior Maddie
McKaig and senior Emmy Mathews each
made a free position shot in order to give the
team a 3-1 lead with a little under 14 minutes
remaining in the ﬁrst half.

CNU scored their only other goal of the
half to pull the team back to one goal’s separa-
tion, but the Generals ran four straight goals
to take a 7-2 lead at the end of the ﬁrst half.
Three of the Generals’ four goals were scored
by Mathews, andjunior Alli Shearin scored an
unassisted shot.

Just over half way into the second half,
W&L had taken a dominating 13-2 lead af-
ter they continued their ﬁrst half scoring run
by netting six unanswered goals. Shearin,
Mathews and senior Kate Speare opened the
half with hot shooting, instantly scoring three
goals in just over a minute and a half.

By Angela Williams
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington and Lee women’s ten-
nis team brought in two wins in theirjoumey
through the NCAA Division 111 tennis touma-
ment last week.

.On Friday, the eighth-ranked women trav-
elled to Pennsylvania and swept Wilkes Uni-
versity in a 5-0 victory to move past the sec-
ond round of the tournament.

After a slight delay due to lightning, the
Generals cleaned-up the doubles competition,
dropping only seven games in three matches
and bringing the score to 3-0.

The number 1 doubles pair of Lauren Lu-

T kas and Trelsie Sadler teamed up to defeat

soapbox

their Wilkes opponents 8-1.

Jen Snyder and Ellen Yeatman, playing in
the number 2 doubles spot, took their victory
8-3, and Sallie Grifﬁn and Chelsea Mixson,

 playing at the number 3 position, took their

“Anyone who’s not ready for this needs
to catch up. He’s doing anyone who's not
ready for this a favor.”

-Phoenbtsunsguardstiavamsheommenﬂngon Rick
\lllolI3’s,theﬁanchIsepraeldent,recantannouncornent1hat
hem.11iespor‘t|nglndust1'ylsorieafthe|astlndusl1|es
wherathesubjeotofsaxualltylsofr-llmlts, aswelbsald, and
sevaralilgureslnvolvedwluitliesporthaveozpraeeed
needforthattochange. -

“it’s tough, especially when your football
players disperse for a little bit of time off.
You’re always wanting to make sure they
are safe, to make sure that they are making
good decisions. It's what you do with your
own children.”

-Unlverslwouubum head coach Genachlzlkspokaabout
theooncernsooacheshavaforihewall-be|n¢ofp|ayois,a
commentulaared bytherooontdeaunhlswoekofziyaar
oldﬂabamaoffenslvallnernan Aaron Doudas.

match by the same score.

In singles competition, Jen Snyder and
Trelsie Sadler secured the win for the Gener-
als by quickly defeating the Colonels 6-1, 6-1,
and 6-1, 6-3, respectively. Ellen Yeatman and
Lauren Lukas also played, but they did not
need to complete their games as the Generals
had already secured the win by taking the ﬁrst
5 matches.

Saturday, the W&L women continued their
progress by defeating Carnegie Mellon 5-4 in
the toumament’s third round, coming back to
take the victory after being behind 4-2.

The match started rough as the number
1 doubles team of Lauren Lukas and Trelsie
Sadler and the number 3 team of Sallie Grifﬁn
and Chelsea Mixson both fell to their Cam-
egie Mellon‘ opponents 8-6. At the number 2
spot, Jen Snyder and Ellen Yeatman were able
to pull out an 8-3 victory, bringing a score of
2-1 in favor of the Tartans after doubles play.

407 Tsmgq

01/38/12 l53% .. Ea-

Speare and ﬁrst-years Meade Brewster and
Margaret Klein each added a goal to give the
Generals their largest lead of the game.

CNU answered W&L’s run with three
straight goals of their own to pull to 13-5.
However, they were never able to overcome
the Generals’ lead, and W&L won the game
by a ﬁnal score of 15-6.

Senior goalie Katharine F arrar stopped ﬁve
shots while playing in the net for the entirety
of the game.

The women advanced to play ﬁfth-ranked
Salisbury University in the tournament’s sec-
ond round on Saturday, where they lost 12-13,
coming up short despite a strong second-half
rally.-

The Generals put in the ﬁrst two goals of
the game, as Klein and McKaig each made a
goal to put the team up 2-0 after just over two
minutes of play. ’

Salisbury scored three unanswered goals
to give them a 3-2 advantage with 21 minutes
left in the ﬁrst half.

McKaig put an end to their streak by mak-
ing an unassisted shot. The scoring went back
and forth for the next few minutes, as SU put
in one goal and the Generals responded by
putting in another, keeping the score tied.

The Sea Gulls then took off, scoring four
straight goals and taking an 8-4 lead with just
under seven minutes left’ in the half. Shearin
helped to end SU’s run by taking an assist
from Donnelly and netting another shot.

Salisbury made one more shot before the

The next three matches completed brought
two more W&L losses. Sallie Griffin took her
opponent to three sets but was unable to se-
cure the win, dropping the match 6-4, 3-6, 6-3.
Lauren Lukas fell in hers, 6-4, 6-2.

Three Generals were able to come back
strong to help W&L advance and end Cam-
egie Mellon’s season.

Yeatman, playing at the number 1 position,
came back from a slow start to win her match
1-6, 7-5, 6-4. Snyder, Sadler and
Reed were able to pull off rela-
tively easy wins, winning theirs
6-2, 6-1; 6-1, 6-2; and 6-1, 6-1.

W&L, now 20-6 on the sea-
son, will move on to the NCAA
Quarterﬁnals in Claremont,
California, on May 24 to face
the third ranked Emory Eagles.

The men’s tennis team
played in the second round of
the NCAA Tournament on Sat-
urday Lexington against North
Carolina Wesleyan College.

The Generals fought hard
but were not able to beat the
Battling Bishops.

Playing at the number 1 spot,
Will Hall and Jeremy Becht
were able to secure an 8-6 win
for the Generals in the doubles
competition. The number 2
team oflonathan Gaffney and
Mac Davis and the number 3
team of Hayden White and Bri-
an Roberts were not able to pull
through, both teams dropping
their matches 8-6.

Their 105865 brought the The Generals will continue on to the quarter ﬁnals
round ofthe NCAA Tournament on May 24.

team score to 2-1.

1 Group

courtesy of generalssportscom

W&L women end their season in the second round of the NCAA Tournament

end ofthe half, going into the break with a 9-5
advantage.

Salisbury scored ﬁrst in the second half, but
W&L powered through three straight goals to
pull the score to a two’-goal difference. McK-
aig’s third goal of the game brought the score
to 10-6 ﬁve minutes into the half, and Mega-
rgel and Shearin each scored goals within a
span of only 40 seconds.

Salisbury went on another three-score run
to take a commanding 13-8 lead, but the Gen-
erals responded by putting in four unanswered
goals oftheir own to bring the team within one
point. Brewster started the scoring run, and
Shearin scored on a free position shot to bring
the score to 13-10 withjust over nine minutes
left on the game clock. McKaig added another
shot, and Megargel put in her ﬁnal goal with
under two minutes left on the clock.

The Sea Gulls were able to stop a last sec-
ond shot by the Generals in order to secure
their victory and end the Generals’ season.

The Generals ﬁnished their season with a
15-5 overall record and a conference title.

Tennis marches on

Women continue in NCAA tournament, while men fall in the third round

The Bishops were too much for the Gener-
als in singles competition, as well. Will Hall,
Jonathan Gaffney, and Ben Fass all fought
hard, but were not able to pull out wins in their
matches.

N.C. Wesleyan won the match 5-1, allow-
ing them to advance to the third round of the
tournament. The Generals had a strong season
ending with a 15-4 record.

in

*

