 

  
  

 

you   n   
 Pledgeclass

  
 

Critter pants?

Columnist  Greenberg says... no.

I OPINIONS / page 5

WASHINGTON AN LEE UNIVERSITY  

THE RING-TUIVI PHI.

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011

‘BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 V°'-UMECXWINUMBERI0

Redoing registration once again

New registration system seeks to answer students ’concerns and criticisms, but may not be the perfect solution

By Diandra Spicak
MANAGING EDITOR

I if in NEW WEB REG: WHAT TO EXPECT ..

- ADV/CE FROM THE REG./STAR’S WEBSITE

I ’, HOLDS AND REGISTRATION APPROVALS2
' View‘ administrative office holds, which
f you will need to clear in order to register;
i find out when your registration window‘
opens and closes; check that your adviser
; has given online approval for you to
register when your window opens; and
view any individual instructor consents for

V.

Starting this Friday, Washington and Lee
students will tackle a new Web Registration
process, with changes most students have been
asking for. Perhaps the biggest change is that
students will now be able to register for certain
sections of a course, instead ofjust the course
itself.

“I really like how you can pick the speciﬁc
section that you want,” said sophomore Lizzie
Engel. “So, if you don’t want class until noon,
that’s pretty great.”

However, the University Registrar warned
about the potential drawback of switching to a

class.

Students will also have to steer clear of any
course conﬂicts or taking classes without the re-
quired prerequisites. If a student signs up for a
conﬂicting class or for a class which he or she is
not fully qualiﬁed to take, the new program will
implement a “hard stop,” preventing them from
continuing with registration.

“In the old system, it was easy to get around
the ‘soft-stop’ and preregister for conﬂicting
courses or for courses you did not have the pre-
requisites for,” said Dittman. “Now there have
to be new procedures for a faculty member to

According to Dittman, the old course-based
registration was “designed l3 years ago to last
for two years.” Now that the computer language
the program was written in is becoming obso-
lete, it seemed time to make the jump to a new
program. However, the new program has al-
ready received mixed reviews.

“It’s very different, but it’s not that hard
to use,” said senior Lauren Sturdy. “I really
like how you can pick courses and save them.
However, the disadvantage, for me, is that I’m
in chorus and we’re not allowed to register for
conﬂicting classes.”

Q ,reg'st_]at'on mm Spec] ‘C Course Sec ions section-based registration program. Others disagreed with Sturdy, saying the new
1 _ “Students are getting some of what they ,, [Z Z./C h . k h registration was a step in the right direction, but
I SEAR?‘ AND REG'ST1l:5fR FOR SfEcT'ON' '_t_ I want, but I think they’ll be surprised that it will 1 red y I e 0W you can 1910 t e does not quite meet up to today’s technological
lew e course 0 enngs Ora pa ‘Cu ar be hard to get the section they want because . . standards.

term‘ see which courses are open which thergs more Ofa Com - - ,, - - - speciﬁc section that you want. S0, .. ~ - , I - ,
, - _ _ _ _ I . petition, said University Overall I think it s an improvement, but it s
have a Wamng "Strand Whlch are Closed; Re istrar Scott Dittman - ~ ' st not that much of an im rovement ” said 'u-
 select Sections to add to your prefered T3esides answering the students’ call to create lfyou don ,1‘ want Class untll noon’ l iiior David Margolies. “lt’s I:onfusing.’The liriks
‘ _°9”'5e list (no “mm; and register if your their own schedules, the new registration will that 3, pretly Feat H are not very clear. And, it’s not mobile. Obvi-
'_ Window '3 099” and requlremems are met also introduce other new features, including a g ' ously they made a new webpage, so why didn’t
SELECTIONS: _ The “shopping cart” feature allows students Even with the mixed reviews, others seem

Once you have devebped your to place sections, and courses they would like to get around [the conﬁict of not having the re- hopeful for the new system. .

. _ preferred "St (your “Shopping cart”) and take In storage for registration. Hypothetical- quire prerequisites]. There will be a new over- It seems like it will be more expedited, es-

. yourwindow is open, this is where you
begin your actual registration. You can only
“register for courses listed in your perferred

courses list, so create that list before your

. registration window opens. .

_MANAGE MY WAITLIsr:
, There is-no immediate or ‘automatic’
‘, :process by which a student is clicked into
-3 the course from the waitlist. If a seat opens
for a section and you are at the top of the
waiting list (as managed by the faculty),
you recieve an e-mail notifying you of
the opening and giving you a dealine to
‘ T register for that seat, and to make any
’. other adjustments to your schedule. If you
i miss the “deadline, you lose the seat.

if ~ ENIBER"

TO  ‘ Walk-up question-and-answer sessions will be held in the Elrod
Commons Marketplace at the following times:

ly, according to Dittman, students could place
all sections of one class in their shopping cart
while creating their schedules. However, Ditt-
maii warned, the cart must be planned out be-
fore the registration window opens, otherwise
planning a schedule will eat into the valuable
time allotted for registration.

With the new registration, students will no
longer have 4-digit passwords given to them by
their advisors. liistead, after meeting with the
students, advisors will be able to “click in” a
student, approving him or her for registration.

instead of an automatic entrance to a wait-
listed class when a seat opens up, students will
have to approve of joining the class within a
deadline, usually by the next day. Students will
receive an email notiﬁcation when there is a free
seat in the waitlisted class and will have to de-
cide whether or not they wish to register for that

5 pm, Wed., Jan. 26 I

ride form.”

According to Dittman, there is “no way” to
override a time conflict in the software; so there
is a paper process that “could be done behind
the scenes.” ’

The new registration will also feature an on-
line drop-add session, instead of the former pa-
per procedure. The upcoming spring registration
will be the last paper drop-add ever, according
to Dittman. However, there will still be a paper
process for late registration.

According to Dittman, the change from
course-based to section-based registration is
in part an answer to students’ criticism the old
system received. Two years ago, committees
of faculty, staff and students began to look at
the outdated system and brainstorm new ideas,
spearheaded by the efforts of Associate Univer-
sity Registrar Barbara Rowe.

pecially since you don’t have to get a password
from your advisor,” said Engel. ‘‘I think the ﬁrst
few rounds will have a few issues, but it might
be a good system. lt’s a matter of working things
out in the long term.”‘

Spring term Web Registration windows open
up this Friday, Jan. 28, for seniors, and will con-
tinue on Tuesday, Feb. 1 for ﬁrst-years. Juniors
and sophomores will be able to register starting
Thursday, Feb. 3. '

3:15 pm, Wed. Jan. 26

9:15 am, Thu. Jan. 27

DATES . .' I . A I
F 30-minute_ demonstrations of faculty/staff screens and processes
will take place in the Leybum Library Smart Zone at the following
times: '  s _

9:15 am, Mon. Jan. 24

3:15 pm, Mon. Jan. 2.4

9:15 am, Tue. Jan. 25

3:15 pm, Tue. Jan. 25

9:15 am, Wed. Jan. 26

11:30 am - 1:00 pm, Tue. Jan. 25
12:30 pm - 1:30 pm, Thu. Jan. 27
11:30 am —1:00 pm, Fri. Jan. 28

3:15 pm, Thu. Jan. 27
9:15 am, Fri. Jan..28 '
‘ 3:15 pm, Fri. Jan. 28

60-minute demonstrations of dept./program head and V .
administrative assistant screens and processes will take place in
Leyburn Library Room 301 on Wed. Jan. 26. ” ‘

_ . 30-minute demonstrations of student screens and processes I
,. O (which are open to everyone) will take place in the Elrod
‘ Commons, Stackhouse Theater at the following times:
6 pm, Mon., Jan. 24,

Health Center nu

mbeirs may be agoodl sign

The number ofstudents admitted may be going up, but some believe students are just being careful

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

Last October saw the largest number of alco-
hol-related visits to Washington and Lee’s Student
Health Center (SHC) in history. While this sounds
troubling, it may be a positive sign.

Dr. Jane Horton, director of the SHC, said that
September, October, January and May tend to see
the most visits, but monthly averages are about 35,
25, 25, and 20, respectively. September saw a slight
increase at 39 visits, but Octobcr‘s visits jumped
to 57, more than twice the average, and more than
three times a year before. Last year, October only
had 15 visits.

An alcohol-related visit is deﬁned as an over-
night stay either at the SHC or the local hospital,
report of an injury as a result of intoxication, such
as a drunken brawl, students reporting sexual as-
sault or women seeking the Plan B birth control pill
after drinking the night before, said Horton.

While the total numbers are signiﬁcantly higher,
the proportions are about the same. Most visits are
for overnight stays, with a few injury rcpoits, and
a smaller amount of other incidents. First-year stu-
dents are twice as likely as all other classes coin-
bined to be brought into the SHC, and this pattern
continued in October. ‘

The cause ofthe October spike is open to specu-
lation. Horton said that the numbers for November

' dropped back into the normal range. Eighteen stu-

dents were brought to the SHC last year, and only
13 for November this year.

Most students are given a BAC test when they
come to the SHC with an alcohol-related issue,
and this year’s numbers are “typical” of the aver-
age level, which was 0.16 last year and has been
decreasing for the past several years, according to
H oiton. This suggests that students ‘are not drinking
any more than usual.

Dawn Watkins, dean of student affairs at W&L,
believes that the jump in students brought in could
be a positive, showing that students are taking bet-
ter care of each other.

“It is important to not assume that [student’s
drinking] behavior is any different,” Watkins said.

She believes that an increased emphasis on “by-
stander intervention,” an element frequently cited
by Horton as well, has encouraged students to bring
in others who may be engaged in “high-risk behav-
ior.”

“Every bit of our [alcohol] education, across
the board, encourages bystander intervention,” said
Watkins, referencing the current “Green Dot” pro-
gram and the safe-haven practice of the SHC.

The school is encouraging students to be more
active bystanders. She has one message for those

who see someone is in trouble: “Hey, go get your
friend help,” she said.

Crystal Spencer, the head resident advisor for
ﬁrst-years, agrees that others seem to be more
aware of taking care of their friends.

“I would say people have become more aware
of the severity of the issue of leaving someone
alone when they are drunk,” she said. The issue
was brought up during mandatory ﬁrst-year alco-
hol classes, and she believes that the classes “made
[students] more aware of the severity of the issue.”

As a student, Spencer said she does not feel that
more alcohol is being consumed than usual. Wat-
kins agreed, saying that they do know students are
drinking less than they have in past years.

The classes and programs may be getting
through to students, but there may also be simpler
reasons for the increase.

According to both Watkins and Horton, student
events are increasingly being held within city lim-
its, making it easier forstudents to go to the center
due to proximity.

“I see events sponsored in city’ limits as a safe
choice,” said Watkins.

Spencer also mentioned a recent tragedy at a
nearby school that may have affected W&L stu-
dents. A student at Radford University was recently

found dead in his room after a night of drinking.
He was left alone to “sleep it off” and died during
the night because of it. “I think that has raised more
awareness,” she said.

The death occurred on October 15, which may
have been a factor in the spike that month.

W&L has not had an alcohol-related death since
the fall of 2000. In comparison, there were 10 stu-
dent deaths between 1990 and l999, according to
Watkins.

To Watkins, this'means something has gotten
across to W&L students: students seem take care
of each other and take advantage of the resources
provided by the school. '

“For the most part, our students are pretty
smart,” said Watkins. K

Although numbers from last weekend’s Tear
Night will not be available until next month, early
indications are that even though the number of stu-
dents admitted was higher on this year’s Tear Night
was higher than last year’s, overall BAC was down.
Once again, it seems that students are learning to
take care of each other and use their resources.

 

  
 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

 

WASHINGTON &NLe/E UNI;/SFLOESITY
LEXINGT
JANQI Billlll
0
2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0 ‘ . MONDAY, JANUARY 24,2011
0

“appa Sigma Rush by the numbers

  An organization by organization breakdown of rush results at Washington and Lee
The newest brothers look 33' °°"'*"°¥ R'"°""°"'

. STAFF WRITER
forward to spring rushing

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

While the formal recruitment process may be
over for most Greek organizations at Washington
and Lee, Kappa Sigma will continue to recruit
new members this winter. .

The four men who are currently in the frater-
nity colony have already been speaking with other
first-year men who are interested in joining Kappa
Sigma.

Some of the new members of the colony said
that they joined Kappa Sigma because of the op-
portunities it provided. While the other fraternities
have an established brotherhood, they believe that
Kappa Sigma offers chances for leadership, post-“
graduate and strong alumni networking.

Parker King, one of the founders of the soon-
to-be chapter, is excited about the prospects that
Kappa Sigma has to offer. A Kappa Sigma legacy,
King is now the Grandmaster of Ceremonies, and
is in charge of fraternity rituals and new member
education.

“The biggest selling point in recruiting for
Kappa Sigma is that you can make it whatever
you want,” said King. I

The colony’s Grand Master, or president,
Christian Martine, takes a less aggressive stance
on recruitment. V

“In the end, we’re all Generals. Fraternities are
simply families among friends,” Martine said. “As
a fraternity, all we can do is allow those interested
in joining a fraternity to feel welcome and, should
they not choose us, we will continue offering our
support and friendship.”

To recruit new members, some colony mem-
bers will emphasize what drew them to Kappa
Sigma: opportunity.

_ “For the rest of winter term, however, we will
be allowed to employ rolling recruitment to boost
our numbers with independents and late rushers of
all ages, who may have completely discounted the
entire Greek system but now have an opportunity
to truly make a fraternity their own,” said Grand
Procurator (vice president) and Grand Treasurer 
Yates Wilbum. I '

The colony will also be working toward receiv-
ing the charter for Kappa Sigma, and restoring the
Mu chapter of the fraternity, the third oldest chap-
ter in the fratemity’s history. ‘

The colony will become a chapter once it has
fulﬁlled the requirements mandated by the execu-
tive national board, including community service,
fundraising and writing the chapter’s constitution
and bylaws.

“I am most excited about being able to mold
the Chapter Constitution, where the other found-
ing fathers and I can truly have an impact on the
character of the chapter,” said Wilbum.

The national headquarters will award the colo-
ny a charter once its members have completed the
requirements; the process is not time-dependent.

“It’s a product of how quickly the colonization
process is accomplished,” said Trey Weitzel, Kap-
pa Sigma Area Recruitment Manager, who will be
working closely with the colony to recruit more
members and establish a chapter. “Knowing these
guys, I ’m sure they will be right on top of it. Once
they complete the items on the checklist, they sub- I
mit to the national executive committee, which is 
also the governing body of Kappa Sigma, and it - -
will decide when a colony receives charter.”

Weitzel recruited the current four members of
the colony in the fall.

On the national level, Kappa Sigma is very
excited since the W&L chapter is the third oldest
chapter of the fraternity.

“The headquarters staff, national committee
staff and the alumni are all excited to have it back.
Over 1,200 men have been initiated through this
chapter, so lots of people [are] eager to have that
home restored,” Weitzel said.

The colony is also receiving help from Judge
John Forster, the alumnus advisor and professor
at the law school, and his wife, Jane Lee Forster,
who was among the ﬁrst female students at W&L
and one of the founders of the W&L sorority sys-
tem. The colony is also suppoited by alumni from
both the international organization and W&L.

Associate Director of Student Activities and
Greek Life Teri Cugliari considers Kappa Sigma’s
fall recruitment to be a success.

“Based on the fact that Kappa Sigma has suc-
cessfully recruited new members, is continuing to
attract new members and is moving forward in the
chartering process, their colonization is success-
ﬁil,” said Cugliari. '

Weitzel also considers the operations of the
chapter so far a success, despite having only four
members.

“The fact that we’re back, have very dedicated
guys that are excited to join and are excited to
move forward with the process makes it a suc-
cess. It just takes a few good men to start,” said
Weitzel.

     

gaternities
/.

To the 384 of you who made It through rush thls year,
congratulatlons. To the ladles, get ready to be showered wlth
glfts and love. To the gentlemen, we’ll see you sprlng term.

Thls year, 198 women reglstered for recrultment.
Accordlng to Terl cugllarl, the Associate Dlrector of student
Actlvltles and Greek Llfe, the average number of women who
rush every year Is 200.

Of the 198 women who reglstered, 186 recelved blds last
Frlday. Thls year, 12 women were released from the process,
four fewer than the 16 potentlal new members who did so
last year. '

A total of 208 men, ten more than last year, reglstered
for recrultment, sald clay Coleman, the Dlrector of Student
Actlvltles and Greek Llfe. One hundred and nlnety-ﬁve men
accepted blds.

r 2’ Li. 5:. mm
\“‘~37.'.;.

    

Pihi:Kap 5;Siigm-a - 
Fall.-Term _ PA:...,3f,024
2011 Pledge Class: 17

     

 

 

 

"M o N DAY, JANUARY 24, 2011 A

3 ' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

Meet Judy Clarke: W&|.’s famous professor

Law students talk about their experiences with Judy Clarke,“ the professor representing Jared Lee Loughner

By Kelly Mae Ross
STAFF WRITER

Jared Lee Loughner, the suspected gunman in
the Tuscon, Ariz. shooting, will soon be appear-
ing in court before a federal judge. Standing be-
side him will be Washington and Lee’s own Judy
Clarke, a professor of practice at the School of
Law.

According to the official criminal complaint
document ﬁled by the FBI, Loughner faces ﬁve
federal charges including one count of attempt-
ing to assassinate Congresswoman Gabrielle Gif-
fords, two counts of attempted murder of a federal
government employee and two counts of murder
of a federal employee. I

In total, l9 people were shot at Congresswom-
an Giffords’s “Congress on Your Comer” event
on Jan. 8. Six were killed, including Arizona Dis-
trict Court Judge John M. Roll and Giffords’s aide
Gabe Zimmerman.

Lawyers and professors all over the country
agree that Loughner could not have hoped for a
better defense attorney than Clarke. Clarke has

' a long history of getting life sentences for de-

fendants who originally faced the death penalty.
Some of her best-known clients include Theodore
J. Kaczynski, also known as the Unabomber; Eric
Robert Rudolph, the Atlanta Olympics bomber;
and Susan Smith, a woman who drowned her two
young children in a lake in 1994.

After Clarke was appointed as Loughner’s
defense lawyer, her name began to appear on
all sorts of news websites. The New York Times,
TIME Magazine, CNN and Fox News. are just
some of the organizations that have already run a
story on Clarke.

While the public now knows a signiﬁcant
amount about Clarke as a defense lawyer, the
news media rarely mentions that Clarke devotes
some of her time to teaching young aspiring law-

yers right here in Lexington.

According to law school records, Clarke taught
her ﬁrst class at the W&L law school in the fall of
2006—a course on sentencing law and practice.
She next taught two courses in the spring of 2007,
one on criminal procedure and the other on white-
collar crime. In the fall of 2008 Clarke taught a
criminal law course, and in the springs of 2009
and 2010, she taught a Criminal Law Practicum

‘ and a Criminal Practice Practicum, respectively.

Clarke has made an impact upon many of the
law students who have taken her courses. Third-
year law student Jessica Guzik said that it was the
Criminal Law class that she took with Clarke that
actually sparked her interest in litigation.

Clarke’s former students describe her class as
different from the stereotypical law school course.
Guzik said that she and her classmates partici-
pated in weekly trial simulation exercises in their
class that allowed them to think creatively about
the arguments that they were making and to “use
talents besides simply reading and taking notes.”

Kristina Joyner, a law school alumna and for-
mer student of Clarke’s, said that Clarke treated
her and her fellow students more like colleagues,
sometimes even asking them for advice on cases
that she was working on.

While Clarke may have performed simula-
tion activities with her Criminal Law students, it
was the students in her Criminal Law Practicum
who truly got to learn through experience what it
was like to try a criminal case. According to law
school alumnus Patrick Chamberlain, who took
Clarke’s Criminal Law Practicum in the spring
of 2009, the entire practicum class was divided
into small teams of prosecutors and defendants.
These teams then spent the entire term working on
one case and going through all of the steps of the

' trial process. Chamberlain said that the cases that

were worked on in this course were real cases that

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.  

I

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS 8: LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
STOCKTON BULLITT
HOLLY SUTHERS
JAYNA JOHNS

By Kelsy Mccraw
STAFF WRITER

had already gone through the trial process. All of
the evidentiary reports and other documents were
from the real ﬁle of a case that Professor Clarke
had worked on in some capacity.

Not only did Clarke make an impact on her
students through the lessons that she taught, but
some of her students also remember her as being
very willing to talk to them outside of the class-
room. According to third-year law student Bill
Larson, Professor Clarke is a very friendly person
outside of class, something that he doesn’t think
the news media have really picked up on in their
stories about her. Larson said he would sometimes
chat with Professor Clarke outside of class about
various topics, such as their opinions of the biog-
raphy of Joe Biden.

However, Joyner said that it could sometimes
be difﬁcult to talk Clarke outside of class with
great frequency because she was often travelling
between Lexington and San Diego, where she
works in private practice with her husband.

Many of Clarke’s students seem to have had
the same impression of her both as a professor and
as a person. They describe her as humble, genuine
and deeply dedicated to the study and practice of
the law.

Third-year law student Alex Merritt said that
what he remembers most about the class that he
took with Clarke in the fall of 2008 is the farewell
talk that she gave on the last day of class. The talk
was Clarke’s “heartfelt” explanation of why she
thinks criminal defense is such an important prac-
tice because everyone, including those who break
the law, is granted certain protections and proce-
dural rights under the Constitution.

“She is a true believer in American justice,”
said Larson.

Chamberlain said that he hoped Clarke would
have time to come back and teach at the law school
again in the spring, for the students’ sake. How-

ever, Linda Johnson, Director of Law School Re-
cords for W&L, said that Professor Clarke will not
be returning to teach another course this spring.

While she may not be teaching another course
this year, Clarke will surely be keeping more than
busy preparing to defend Jared Lee Loughner in
trial. Some journalists and lawyers have begun to
speculate that Clarke may attempt to use the in-
sanity plea in her defense of Loughner, but some
of her students aren’t so sure about that.

They said that Clarke discussed different as-
pects of the use of the insanity defense in both her
criminal law class and practicum, often discussing
it in relation to Clarke’s work defending Ted Kac-
zynski, also known as the Unabomber.

When asked if he thought that she might use
the insanity plea in the Loughner case, Larson
said that he believes Clarke will consider every
possible course of action.

Guzik said that Clarke does not view the insan-
ity plea as a tactical maneuver that can be used by
defense lawyers to avoid certain legal repercus-
sions, in other words, as a way to duck punish-
ment. She said that Clarke “doesn’t take anything
like that for granted” because she realizes that
one can undermine the entire legal system if they
abuse something, like the insanity plea.

Joyner said that the news media seems to have
hyped up the use of the insanity plea because, in
actuality, the use of this type of defense is actually
quite rare. According to The Jurisprudence of the
Insanity Defense by Michael Perlin, lawyers have

only tried to use the insanity defense in less than ‘

one percent of felony cases.

Loughner will next appear in court, along with
Clarke, for his preliminary hearing, which has
been scheduled for Jan. 24.

EC sets winter goals

The beginning of winter term brings new plans for the EC at W&L

 

COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
HEAD PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MORAL SUPPORT

SAMUEL GILLERAN
KATHERINE ROBERTS
JULIANNA SATTERLY
JOHN PAUL BEALL
CAMPBELL BURR
MIKE DECEMBRINO
LIZZ DYE
ALIGREENBERG
ALEXANDER MARAGos
KELSY MccRAw
FINDLEY MERRITT
COURTNEY RIDENHOUR
KELLY MAE Ross
BURL ROLETT
PATRICK SMITH
VALAREE TANG
ALEXANDRA FRAZIER
STEELE BURROW
ROB GEoRGE

MATT GossErr
KELLY LANE

JOE MoRAvEc '
ZABRIAWN SMITH
EVAN SHARBER
DAVE WILSON

KEKE NICHOLS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty, parents
and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper into news
affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable.
Through our reporting, we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information
that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS DURING
THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR. THE RING-
TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA BOARD,
BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT. QUESTIONS OR
CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI SHOULD BE ADDRESSED’
TO THE EDITORS AT PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE
MEDIA BOARD AT MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE
MEDIA BOARD IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-
RUN EDITORIAL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING
WITH ALL MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON
& LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH. LETTERS
AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT
THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI STAFF.
THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT COURT
DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

. THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

The Executive Committee forecasted a
busy bill of winter term objectives at their
weekly meeting on Tuesday night.

President Scott Centorino explained
that the group hopes to piggyback off of
a successful fall term and continue to im-
prove student self-govemment.

“I think everyone, from every part of
campus can look at the things we’ve done,

ies like the Student Judicial Council. The
Dean of Students would be able to enter
a UBA proceeding with less prior knowl-
edge of the case at hand. Centorino said
this move would eliminate the appearance
of bias in the UBA.

“[The proposal is] our ﬁrst priority be-
cause without it, we’ll have the status quo.
Withit, we’ll have an appellate process

“Considering what we ’ve done so far, things a Z0t.0f A
people didn ’t think we could pull off I ’m excited about the

possiblities. ”

§gg§ ggntgringl Eg ﬂrggiggm

and ﬁnd a bunch of things to be happy
about,” he said.

Among the laundry list of goals for the
winter was to pass the University Board
of Appeal reforms past a faculty vote in
the coming months. The reforms, which
the EC painstakingly worked on in the
fall, have been an important step toward
improving student self-govemance.

The reform proposal outlines UBA
procedures more clearly, guarantees ba-
sic rights for anyone involved in a hear-
ing and forrnalizes why a lower body’s
decision can be overturned. This means
that any student involved in a UBA hear-
ing will know exactly what to expect in
the proceeding, know exactly what the
are allowed to do for their case and know
that the UBA will only overturn a lower
body.’s decision for bad procedure, not for
difference of opinions on the case.

Even more, the proposal changes the
Chair of the Board from the Associate
Dean of Students to the Dean of Students.
The Associate Dean of Students is very in-
tertwined in the proceedings of lower bod-

for hazing, sexual assault and conduct de-
cisions that makes sense and one we can
all count on and trust. It gets us one step
closer to living our values,” he said.

The Student Affairs Committee has al-
ready approved the reforms, and, now, the
EC will focus on swaying the faculty.

The UBA deals closely with Student-
Faculty Hearing Board, which handles
cases of sexual harassment on campus.
The EC believes that gender relations
pose some of the biggest problems on
campus. The UBA reforms and the SFHB
reforms that the group passed in the fall
have helped to improve the judicial pro-
cesses involved with gender relations is-
sues. But Centorino hopes to look at and
address the issues from different angles
during this semester.

“I want to take a step back and look at it
from the bigger picture. What becomes of
it, I’m not sure yet. But considering what
we’ve done so far, things a lot of people
didn’t think we could pull off, I’m excited
about the possibilities,” he said.

More directly affecting students will

be the EC’s work with Dining Services.

Sophomore representative Jack Apgar
has led the Coup de Co-op Committee to
regain co-op money for students who miss
dinner. The group has already won $5.85
for student-athletes who miss dinner be-
cause of practice and $125 extra food
debit for all students with a Marketplace
meal plan.

However, the EC hopes to regain the
co-op dinner option for the general stu-
dent body, believing it is not only the
athletes’ problem. Apgar will continue to
collect information to help their case for
when Dining Services reviews their bud-
get in March.

As a ﬁnal triumph, Centorino boasted a
lower-than-average number of honor cas-
es for the fall term. The EC nonnally sees
around eight to ten honor cases a term.

Centorino said he thinks that there isn’t
an underreporting problem and genuinely
believes students are taking the Honor
System more seriously.

'“It’s hard to say why it’s been a quiet
year. It’s promising, of course... that be-
ing said, we’re always looking to improve
the system and modernize it,” he said.

He indicated that a few higher-proﬁle
cases that happened last year might have
helped to keep the Honor System and the
EC on students’ minds.

More on the winter term agenda in-
cludes ensuring at least three more Chick-
ﬁl-A visits, purchasing a memorial bench
for the late Granvil George and running
successful elections and officer transi-
tions.

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6,2010

opinions

 

, here

Coming home
from college

A nice remix to normal life

By Campbell Burr
c 0 L u M N l ST

Imagine being woken up with a kiss and a mug of coffee, walking into
your own clean bathroom without ﬁip-flops, and returning to ﬁnd your bed
already made. Picture trying on every piece of clothing in your wardrobe
before going out and coming home to ﬁnd them hung up and put away.
Imagine sitting in a well-decorated room by a crackling ﬁre and watching
your favorite football team with a big bowl of homemade popcorn. Home
sweet home.

Though living at home is more luxurious than living in a crowded
dorm room, it has its restrictions. Here are some frustrations I faced over
Christmas break: -

I. Where are the pizza and Oreos? Raiding my fridge at the end
of the night is nothing like wandering through Graham-Lees on a food
hunt... unless you keep baby carrots, pickles, and soymilk in your dorm
for late-night snacking. No wonder I was so skinny in high school.

2. “Comb your hair.” “Less eye make-up.” “That dress is too short.”
The commentary doesn’t stop. At a family brunch, I was scolded at least
ﬁve times by my parents and grandparents for wearing a skirt too short. I
can only imagine what they would say about my theme-party outﬁts...

3. “How’s school? Do you have a boyfriend? How’s your room-
mate? How are Mom and Dad holding up?” Literally the same conversa-
tion with every person I come across. And telling people you have a single
room is not as easy as you think. At most schools, singles are reserved for
socially-incompetent freaks, not half of the freshman class. Would saying
I have “lots of boyfriends” come across the wrong way? And considering
the empty nesters go out more than I do, I’d saying they’re holding upjust
ﬁne.

4. Where’s Traveller when I need it? Unreliable Mapquest direc-
tions, ﬁghts over whose turn it is to be the designated driver and speed
traps all become a headache. If only Traveller would extend its ﬁve-mile
radius and serve students over break. Well, that may be a bit more compli-
cated than learning to read a map.

5. My grandparents were out later than I_was on New Year’s Eve. I
wish I were kidding. Thank you, curfew.

6. You feel sorry for your friends when you hear about their college
experiences:

“All of our parties are really small.” “It’s hard because all of the up-
perclassmen have parties but I don’t know any of them.” “The boys are
so nerdy!”

And how am I supposed to comfort them? “College is only consid-
ered the best four years of your life—guess it’s seriously downhill from

'99

Over break I went to a party hosted by a Georgetown student. The

- boys were dressed in button-down shirts, pretty similar to what the typical

W&L student would wear out. On the way home, my friend who attends
another university couldn’t get over their outﬁts. “They all looked like
little Ken dolls!” I had forgotten that boys at other schools dress like slobs.
Yet another reason to love W&L.

7. The world no longer revolves around me. When I’m late, my
whole family is late. At school, I may press snooze a few too many times
and come to class ﬁve minutes late. Rude? Yes, but at least I’m not drag-
ging three other people late to class with me. At home, my parents expect
me to be punctual. Sometimes I fail to meet that expectation, like over
break when I arrived ten minutes late to a 35-minute church service and
missed my dad’s reading.

8. I’ve watched every episode of Real Housewives, read a few
trashy novels, shopped at every boutique and department store and am...
running out ofthings to do. I could always get more than 12 hours of sleep
a night and continue to make one errand take up the entire day. Maybe I
could straighten my hair for the ﬁfth time today? So little to do and so
much time.

9. Catching up with friends isn’t quite as entertaining as it used to
be. As much fun as it is to hear about John, Will and Jake, I’ll never know
these people! Why do I care that John blasts Enya from his dorm room and
thinks no one can tell when he is checking himselfout in store window re-
ﬁections? Hey, on second thought, let me meet this guy. We seem to have
more in common than I thought.

10. “You’re dressed like a mom.” Thanks, I’m actually wearing her
clothes. Fortunately and unfortunately, my mom and I are the same size
in clothes and shoes and share closets when I’m home. This is a blessing
because between the two of us, we have every color and style of sweater
and skirt which makes getting ready easy. The only negative? My mom
looks better in our clothes than I do—self-conﬁdence boost!

Now I’m back in Lexington re-teaching myself how to make a bed,
fold clothes and get a life.‘l get twice as much done with half as much
time. I feel twice as energetic with half as much sleep. And I’m having
twice as much fun going out half as many nights. Though living in a tiny
dorm cell and doing all of my own chores without allowance can be ex-
hausting, life is good.

Alumni-in-Residence
in January

Explore Your Career Options Through -
Informal C onversations with W&L Alumni

Wednesday, Jan.’ 19
Ann Fuller ’9O

Minister and Marriage Educator

Friday, Jan. 21
Mike Fogarty ’82

Entrepreneur in Specialty Industry

‘ Friday, Jan. 28
‘ Dan Birdwhistell ’Ol

Entrepreneur in Network Content

Come by to register for lunch meeting or
individual appointments.

/
I
\

 

’’''/i‘ P T‘  _
 /; Career Services

Shooting sprouts from a gun

Opponents of the Second Amendment use fundamentally incorrect
reasoning to frame their arguments

By John Paul Beall
COLUMNIST

Before reading this article any fur-
ther, please take a moment of silence for
the victims of the tragic shooting in Tuc-
son on January 8.

In light of this incident, the topic of
gun control has once again emerged to
the forefront of political debate. People
cite this incident as the classic example
of the dangers of a

effective in that it is a republic with an
idea that the law reigns supreme: a great
generator of civic and social stability in
the United States. When a person com-
mits a crime, however, he or she is es-
sentially outside the law. The conclusion
then is that legality does not concern the
lawless. So ifa law is established to con-

control have misunderstood this idea as
for radicals, who wish to remain armed
should the government become tyranni-
cal. While some radicals do hold this po-
sition, this is not an overarching factor.
The Founding Fathers understood
what it meant to have self-deterrnina-
tion. The ability to act for oneself is
~ liberty; dependence on

gun. By extension,
they demand more
stringent regulations
for gun control.
There are many
reasons why calling
for more expansive
gun laws is the in-
correct answer to the

When a person commits a crime, however, he or she
is essentially outside the law. The conclusion then is

that legality does not concern the lawless.

another person or entity
is to be robbed of one’s
liberties and rights. Mur-
der is to be robbed of the
right to life; theft is to be
robbed of property; and to

be disarrned is to be robbed '

of the ability to guarantee
one’s rights for oneself, a

tragedy of murder   liberty all on its °Wn- 1”‘

and crime, but one
thing must be made perfectly clear: to
claim that a gun is the cause of violence
is to strip the murderer of responsibility
for his own actions and to dishonor those
who were robbed of irreplaceable life.

This seems to be a trend long in the
making where the Jeffersonian ideals in
government have since faded away. Self-
determination has given way to the belief
that if there is a problem that needs solv-
ing, one lobbies the government, who
will set up an extensive and inefﬁcient
bureaucracy to regulate the matter. This
is perhaps a residual effect from the era
of Franklin D. Roosevelt’s alphabet soup
of programs and bureaucracies during
the Great Depression, yet even he never
believed that all the programs would
ever be permanent.

But crime is the one major talking
point that advocates of gun control use
to persuade the public. America is very

trol the supply of guns, the only realm
in which this will work is in the realm
of the lawful citizen. The good are dis-
armed in a vain effort to disarm the bad,
an unintended but unfortunate result of
such policy.

Many World War II buffs know that
after the war ended and the Japanese
battle plans were discovered, it was
found that Japan had never intended a
full-on land invasion of the contiguous
forty-eight states. One reason why isthat
the Japanese tacticians knew that most
American households owned arms for
their own defense. This would have ren-
dered a land attack on the United States
nearly impossible to execute, because
the invasion would have needed to be
fought on a block by block basis.

This illustrates the crowning point for
those who favor the 2nd Amendment:
personal defense. Advocates of gun

stead of being able to act
in self-defense, people are forced to wait
for the police to arrive and act for them.

To describe the track record of the
I00-year lifespan of gun control policies
across the globe would make this article
insufferably long and dry, so‘ summary
will have to sufﬁce. It does not matter
which country is examined. The policy
is always the same, and so is the output.
If ever in a discussion or heated argu-
ment, the best question anyone can ask
to advocates of gun control is if they can
delineate their supposed answer to the
problem.

The bottom line is that if someone
attempts to establish the connection be-
tween guns and violence, there is an es-
sential logical error. Violence can come
around for a variety of reasons, from
poverty, to social unrest or even bad pol-
itics, but violence never grows from the
barrel of a gun.

Differences between men and

women in relationships

Without his target demographic as a base, Stockton Bullitt ventures

into unknown territory...

By Stockton Bullitt
OPINIONS EDITOR

Writing opinion afticles this kind of
year is particularly difﬁcult. I like to think
that I cater to a certain demographic of
reader. This works relatively well for me
because as long as I pound out a weekly
article of the same bullshit metaphors
and references to ESPN and movies, I
know that I don’t have to try particularly
hard to write an effective column.

However, there is a stretch of about
two months or so where I have a feeling
a certain proportion of my target demo-
graphic does not exactly have the time
to read my column. I would say that for
the next... oh... seven or so weeks, this
certain portion of the target demographic
will have more important things to do
than read why I think Caleb Hanie is the
perfect mixture of two of the better mov-
ies of the late 1990s (in other words he
is the almost famous version of Willie
Beamon). If you didn’t understand that
reference, there’s a chance you are not

"among the demographic of very busy

people right now.
So since I can’t write bullshit articles

. about sports, I will write an article about

a subject that this certain absent demo-
graphic does not particularly care about:
relationships.

. There are certain aspects of relation-
ships that are hard to prepare for. I wasn’t
really sure of what these were, so I did a
little research at Leybum and found out
some interesting little nuances about re-
lationships at Washington and Lee that
frankly I did not see coming.

First and foremost, there is a whole
new world of television to encounter
once you enter into a relationship. Yes,
ladies, you have to watch way too many
sports and usually we hog the television
anyway, but you have been rolling your
eyes at the atrocious shows we watch
for quite a long time now. But, wow, it
is painful to watch Bravo, MTV, ABC
Family, and E! on an endless loop.

After all that pain and hardship how-

and sells out

ever, I got a deﬁnite feel for who I do and
don’t like in your world of television.
I do like Kim and Phaedra from “Real
Housewives of Atlanta.” Let’s be honest,
Kim is the perfect "comeback for all the
countless years of negatively portrayed
minorities on television. I don’t know

‘how she does it, but she overshadows

anything the Basketball Wives ever do.
I don’t like Chelsea Handler, but that’s
only because I have a penis. I do like
anyone on the “Millionaire Matchmaker”
who isn’t the Millionaire Matchmaker. I
mean, is it really that hard to ﬁnd boring
and shallow people in Los Angeles?

I don’t see how people pay her mon-
ey. I don’t like Aria from “Pretty Little
Liars.” Really? Ifl was hooking up with
a teacher while I was in high school, I
would ﬁnd a way to smile once in a
while. I do like Janelle from “Teen Mom
2.” She and Ray J are easily the two most
entertaining people in the world right
now. Why do a paper on Roe v. Wade
when you can just forward your teacher
clips ofher? Finally, I don’t like “Skins,”
but that’s because I’m not in the 13-16
age range. That show. gets a bad rap from
critics and anyone in college because
it so clearly panders to that target age
range. I guarantee you that every middle
school girl in America is thinking about
trading in her Twilight backpack for any-
thing that has to do with the new MTV
show that shamelessly gloriﬁes what pre-
teens imagine high school to be like and
what teens think they are actually going
through. '

Another little nuance of dating is all
the damn thought process that goes into
a dinner and a movie. Girls, you don’t
want to look fat when ordering, but you
also want to order something expensive
enough that he’ll know that he can’t be
cheap with you. That being said, you
can’t order something too expensive
because there’s always the off chance
that when the check comes, he’ll look at

you and raise an eyebrow. Guys, on the
other hand, have to worry about ordering
something that makes them look like a
man, meaning that the sorority rush date
diet of pasta and salad is not eligible. Un-
fortunately, pasta and salad also happen
to be two of the cheapest options on the
menu. Masculinity costs money, espe-

‘ ‘cially at The Bistro.

The movie also presents a problem, at
least for the guy. There’s no way the guy
ever talks the girl into seeing “The Ex-
pendables” or “The A-Team.” Usually,
the choices come down to whatever-Dis-
ney-is-throwing-out-there or the barely
watchable romantic comedy of the mo-
ment. Best case scenario, you get “Wall-
E” or Natalie Portman for 90 minutes.
Worst-case scenario, you get two hours
of Miley Cyrus.

Then there’s music. Ladies, I know
that maybe it’s a little weird that the pre-
dominantly suburban, Caucasian popula-
tion of W&L prefers to listen to the same
music that they do in Queensbridge and
Harlem, but that is no comparison to hav-
ing to listen to the horror that is Taylor
Swift. 1 know that most of Bruce Spring-
steen’s songs sound the same, but c’mon
- the only difference among any of Tay-
lor Swiﬁ’s songs is the name. Also, there
has to come a time when Taylor realizes
that all the problems that befall her in all
her relationships are clearly her fault, and
don’t try and retort that she realized it
with that guy who played the werewolf.
The only beneﬁt I received from any of
Taylor Swift’s music is it more ﬁrmly
entrenched my belief that John Mayer is
my role model. i

Okay, so there you have it: I origi-
nally and wholly summed up all the
differences between men and women. ‘I
would share the rest with the missing de-
mographic, but I have a feeling that they
will not be thinking about women until
late March.

VooLtpictIl.¢I)uoaQcIA

 

 

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 24,2011

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

Need a way to waste time while standing up? Pat Smith explains the glory of getting a workout playing video games

By Patrick Smith
COLU M N I ST

If you don’t count the eight hours of Call of
Duty Black Ops I play daily, one could hardly call
me a “gamer.” For those of you out there who
love video games but get a bunch of crap from
your parents about being a waste of space on the
couch, I have the solution: Xbox Kinect.

Over break, I had the pleasure of playing co-
pious amounts of Xbox Kinect, but I hate when
people call Xbox Kinect a video game. I like to
call it an “experience.” The reason it is not a video
game is because there are no controllers. You must
stand, and it’s exhausting as hell.

The ﬁrst time I played it with my friends from
Jersey, we played for like four hours straight. The
next morning I could barely get out of bed because
I was so sore.

Every parent out there should encourage his or
her children-to play Xbox Kinect. lt’s fun as the
dickens and is also a great work out. The amazing
thing about the “experience” is how accurately the

character on the screen mimics your movements.
For example, ifyou pick your nose in front ofthe

ly challenging game Kinect provides is the soccer
goalie game. It requires you to stay in the power

best part about the Xbox Kinect is the video re-
play they show you at the end of each game. The
console puts together a slideshow of everything
you did in that round of play. The things you will
see may haunt you.

In my professional opinion, the most physical-

camera, position
*-the dude _ _ , and move
on the For example, if you pick your nose in ﬁront of the leﬁ to
screen is . . . . right, up
going ,0 camera, the dude on the screen ZS going to pick his and down,
pick his . in orderto
nose’ and nose, and everyone will laugh at you. blockshot
everyone after shot.
will laugh Once you
at you. get up
Per_   to about
haps the 40 saves

your legs start to burn as well as your eyes, be-
cause blinking is not an ‘option.

The first time I played the soccer goalie game,
I made the mistake of wearing blue jeans and a
polo. Needless to say, I could not walk right for
a few days.

The Xbox Kinect is like the Wii on steroids
and the badass version of the PlayStation Move.
No stupid handsets or nun-chucks to mess around
with. Just a man and his thoughts... and a smart-
phone.

The Xbox Kinect is not for the shy or reserved
type of person. In order to excel in this experi-
ence, you must go all out and leave everything on
the table. It’s kind of like drinking a Four Loko
at noon.

All in all, get the Xbox Kinect. If you are wor-
ried about playing too many video games, start
playing the experience. Invest in the Xbox Kinect
and get your life moving.

On a side note, I hope everyone had a won-
derful tear-weekend and didn’t get arrested like
Snookie did for not being able to ﬁnd the beach
while she was on the beach.

Critterpants are ruining W&L

Ali Greenberg enlightens the student population of the fashion do is and don ’ts of cripper pants and cowboy boots

By Ali Greenberg
C0 LUM NIST

Last time I asked us to consider real pants, but I
must now ask us to stay away from a certain breed.
While I generally see both sides to every clothing
story, there really just isn’t an argument that can
be made in favor of so-called “critter pants.”

A hideous take on a perfectly normal pair of
khakis with repetitive embroidery of lobsters,
anchors, palm trees and yes, even tridents, these
pants exemplify all that is wrong with the south-
ern country club culture and boys who still rely on
their mothers to pick out their wardrobe.

While pants are the main casualty, other items
of clothing are not immune. Those critters spread
quicker on this campus than Tear Night hook-up
stories, leaving belts, shorts, blazers, skirts and
bags victims in their wake. But for the frat stars
with stock in Vineyard Vines, I grant you a free
pass for neckties.

However, if it is your blazer that, is covered
with these stupid animals, then you officially have
no excuse; I’m sorry, but life is not Foxﬁelds. I
know some who come to the critters’ defense,

saying that they are “kitsch” and therefore accept-
able. '

However, I’d be willing to put money down
that most who partake in this trend at our school
are not doing so ironically, because let’s face it,
Washington and Lee doesn’t really do irony.

But, is there ever a proper time to wear these
offensive pants? YES!

I’ll set the scene: our charismatic and hand-
some frat star wakes up. The sun is shining, and
he heads to his closet. It’s Memorial Day weekend
in the City, where he has been working a sick in-
ternship at a hedge fund that his dad hooked him
up with. He is about to catch the jitney out to the
Hamptons, where he has summered since he was
three and is going boating with a friend from prep
school for the day.

Pleased with his plans, he pulls the critter pants
off the hanger, throws them on with a polo and is
actually dressed appropriately for the day’s activi-
ties. Unfortunately, being the douchiest looking
guy on the water is a common and unavoidable

side effect.

If you want to look classy, classic and put to-
gether, try a monogram instead. There is really
nothing chicer, and it harks back to a time when
clothing actually represented your personal style
and when the type of hat you wore said a lot about
you. Not that any guy who would normally wear
critter pants has anything interesting to say about
himself.

Speaking of classics, let’s get on to the ladies.
There is nothing I love more than classic Ameri-
can style, and there is nothing more American
than embossed leather, waxed cotton and cozy
ﬂannel knits. -

I want to be clear that I have ‘no problem with
the concepts of cowboy boots and Barbour jack-
ets... but let’s get serious. You are from Jersey, and
the closest you have been to a ranch is when you
reach for the low-calorie dip at srat lunch.

My cowboy boots are vintage and fabulous and
I love them, but I am a blue-blooded Yankee, so
they don’t make much sense. Girls tend to come to

school here and suddenly transform into southern
belles, some even developing a twang.

As further evidence of this phenomenon, I am
wearing a camouﬂage duck-hunting jacket as I
write this, even though I am a vegetarian who has
never hunted a day in her life. i

We have all adopted- these styles as just that:
style. But when it comes to dressing the part all
I have to say is that if you are afraid to get your
Barbour jacket dirty, you don’t deserve to wear
itwand getting beer spilled on you at Hooterville
doesn’t count.

W&L is neither the English countryside nor the
Alamo (sorry, Tex-Lex), and I think that ifwejust
come to terms with the fact that the majority of us
are posers; then we can all still wear our boots and
look a little less pretentious.

Maybe the Derby Days Task Force can lend us
some legitimacy and substitute drunk powder-puff
for drunk mechanical bull riding, or make the girls
ﬁsh outside Pole 3 for the cooking contest.

We all certainly dress the part.

Traveller provided 60,611 rides in the 2009 -
2010 school year. Express provided 53,165 rides,

and dispatch provided 7,446.

JANUARY EVENTS
ALL STUDENTS BVVITED

LINKED IN WORKSFIOP
V Thursday, January 20
l'Leyburn 30l, 7:00 pm.

Tips for talring

advantage oftliis networking tool

COFFEE, COOKIES & CAREERS

Thursday, January 20

Leyburn Main Floor, 8:00 pm.
Career Services Representatives come to you

TRUE LIFE:

It’s Internship & Job Hunting Season
Fridays, 2:30 pm, Jan. 21 & 28, Feb. Al & ll
Four independent coaching sessions designed to
quickly increase your odds of being successful.

All students receive a ﬂree copy oftlie popular guide
The job Coach for Young Professionals.’

Limit 10 participants per session.
Come by Career Services to register.

 ll 
l\_ 55' 
\, K’ ‘J: 1,.’

Career Services

   

VV\

0 ' Greek Specialties,‘
 & American,C1__1isine 

SERVTN A A
Breakfast~ Lunch~ Dinne
(Breakfast served all day!)

Tuesday-Thursday: 7AM ‘— 9PM
Friday and Saturday: 7AM - 10PM

- Sunday: 7AM — 3PM
Closed Mondays

Lunch and Dinner Specials!
Carry Out Available
Go Greek at Niko's!

167 South Main Street
Lexington, VA .
Phone: 540.464.9499
Fax: 540.464.1226

Look for menu at www.nikosgrill-cafe.com

 

/"'

110 South Jefferson Street — Lexington, VA

Tuesday — Friday
Tuesday — Friday

All Day Dinner Buffet

Free Delivervl — Minimum $25

‘liiélﬂ

Closed Every Monday ~ Beer & Wine
S40-463-2002

Chinese Buffet

L n h Buffe : .99

11:30 a.m. — 3:00 pm.
Dinner Buffet: 9. 9

4:30 pm. — 9:30 pm.
r d n a C’ ' 9

11:30 (1.m. ~ 9:00 pm.

‘)"c>u;lC-‘i.,..-......

Iapanese Steak House and

Dinnerfor ’l'w0 - $29.99 Shrimp or Chicken

133910

Sushi Bar

Hi hi ei

3:30 p.1n.-10:00 pm.

No Re.\crv.Il ion llcqun ml

 

opinions

. The experience of Xbox Kinect

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY,

arts&|ife

 

Unwanted Visitors?
Keep them out for good.

By Findley Merritt
STAFF WRITER

Part I.

Their names were Harvey and Oswald.

I use past tense because our two resident mice met
their timely demise [1 la Megan Daily and organic peanut
butter about three days ago. Pests will inevitably reside
in our off-cainpus houses. Because let’s face it—while
brimming with charm, personality and history, these old
structures are the opportune places for nesting grounds.

Evidential support for a mouse problem:

1. Droppings. Feces. “Night soil.” More than you
can shake a stick at. Google the image ifthat helps.

2. Often they substitute your mug of tea for their
personal Hungarian bath.

3. Those “dust clumps” on your bed at night...

*The latter two only apply if you reside at 101 North
Randolph Street... and if you’re named Megan.

So what do you do? In the most scientiﬁc terms:

1. Deep Throat said to “follow the money.” I
say follow the droppings. You can identify their general
hangouts by the... errn. .. excrement clusters.

2. Once identiﬁed, place mousetraps in these
places. Now thanks to Walmart employee Bob, our house
could write a dissertation on mousetrap effectiveness.
The Sandbox recommends “No touch, no mess” as our
mousetrap of choice. Spread some peanut butter as the
bait (we choose organic as a courtesy to our condemned
prisoner’s last meal), set it correctly and voila! No con-
tact necessary to dispose of your little friend. You can
also ﬁnd varieties of mouse poison (where my PETAs
at?) to place in your house, which are particularly effec-
tive at keeping mice away permanently.

In addition to mice, Cimicidaes often plague old
houses. I used the scientiﬁc name for bedbugs simply to
show how smart I am. And I didn’t Wiki it at all.

If you wake up in the morning (cue Ke$ha) with a
rash of small red dots in linear form, you probably have
bed bugs. Now before you go running to the hills, know
that there are simple solutions.

Local competition encourages
household recyclin

Rockbridge County promotes sustaina le lifestyles for locals and students

By Holly Suthers
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Rockbridge County is hosting its ﬁrst Re-
cycling Challenge this month to encourage the
community to “go green." The Rockbridge
County Recycling Department is sponsoring a
contest to see improve household recycling.

The contest began on Jan. 9 and will end on
Feb. 19. The winner will be determined by the
household with the most trash bags ﬁlled with
sorted, recyclable material.

The county has made several attempts to
improve sustainability in the area. The parking
garage at the Rockbridge County Couit House
on Randolph Street contains premium parking
places for hybrid vehicles. and many ofthe lo-
cal schools have created student groups to pro-
mote a “greener” lifestyle.

Washington and Lee has contributed signif-
icantly to this movement, as well, especially by

using biodegradable paper products and add-
ing dozens of recycling bins around campus.

While Lexington, especially, has improved
its sustainability, local ofﬁcials believe that
there are many other ways to recycle that have
not yet been employed in the area. Old or no
longer operating televisions, computers and
cell phones are in fact recyclable and do not
need to be thrown out. Many companies, such
as Apple and Dell, have “buy back” programs
where the company will buy back an old elec-
tronic for a discounted price, while local shel-
ters willingly accept older, but still functional,
gadgets.

Electronics are especially important to re-
cycle because of the waste that the products re-
lease in landﬁlls. Electronic waste, also known
as “e-waste,” accounts for up to 70 percent of

the heavy metals in landﬁlls and 40 percent of
the total lead, which allows toxic substances to
leach into the soil and groundwater.

Many household cleaning products are also
recyclable. Plastic and paper containers may
be reused, while the excess substances are usu-
ally water—soluble and may be washed down
the drain. The Recycling Center is hoping to
inform and teach local residents and students
about the importance of maintaining an envi-
ronmentally friendly lifestyle.

In order to register for the challenge, please
see a Rockbridge County Recycling Center
employee at one of the local recycling center.
The winner will receive a $111 gift card to
Walmart.

Photosynthesis applied to
photographs creates unique images

Former visiting professor Binh Danh uses an unusual technique in his

photographic pieces

By Holly Suthers
ARTS & LlFE EDlTOR

JANUARY 24, 2011

Using one ofthe earliest photographic pro-
cesses, artist Binh Danh captures his Vietnam-
ese heritage and explores the idea ofcollective
memory. “The
Grass Over
Graves” exhibit

process by using chlorophyll. The steps in-
-volved in this process create a ﬁnal image that
appears as if the photograph is embedded in
plant leaves.

“His use ofim-
ages around Lex-

tling. Each also depicts the misery and cru-
elty of the Vietnam War on the Vietnamese
population, and portraits of fallen American
soldiers.

Danh also uses photographs of victims of
the Khmer Rouge, the ruling party in Cam-

*Apparently not everyone exhibits bed bug symp-
toms. Thus, you’d probably have to see a bed bug to
know you have them. Google it.

1. Immediately call the exterminator. Make friends
with said person because you might require his or her
services again.

2_ Get everyone in vour house to wash all his or her features images ington like Woods bodia ﬁom 1975 to 1979. The Communist
clothing and bedding Make sure you deep clean your that represent Creek and the Paity’s politics and social reform policies led
room and vacuum. his ancestral cemetery portrays to a massive genocide in the late 1970’s. The

3_ Buy a protective mattress eover speeiﬁeallv for bed background, our community artist obtained the images from the Cambo-
hugs Yes those exist_thank your Wally World the Vietnam in a unique way,” dian government and used the same photo-

Part IL War and scenes said senior Mag- synthetic technique as seen in the images from

His name was _ . of Lexington. gie Dozier. Vietnam.

Well that remains to be determined Letasiust call him Danh’s The exhibit “It is really interesting and captivating in
John -l-ovvnie_ work is cre- evokes emotions the way that the images appear to be mirrors

Ot~tc_eanipus houses are also prone to Home sapien ated in the form of sympathy, pain, from one angle, but a photograph from an-
intruders. For the most part, Lexington is pretty void of of dag”?”e‘_" and angﬁn Several other-” _
hard crime But oeeasionallv, hoodlunis, or eshoodratsw as types, which 15 of the pieces con- Danh created the majority of these pieces
Latarian Milton calls them, like to keep us on our toes one of the ﬁrst tain forlorn and in 2009 while he was a visiting professor at
so imagine Lindsey Deeas shocked expression when photographic exhausted faces Washington and Lee. The artist will speak to .

     
     
     
    
   
     
 

lohn Tovvnie strolled into her bedroom one dav_ He said processes de- that appear as if the community in the concert hall in Wilson
that he was looking for a woman who had lived there last veloped. The the subject is im— on Monday, Jan. 31. “The Grass Over Graves”
year’ but considering we knew all the previous tenants images are cre- inensely suffer- exhibit is currently on display in the Staniar
Lindsey savv straight through that lie_ Our l~l- made it to ated through ing. The images Gallery and will remain on view until Feb. 4,
other houses as well using a similar line. applymg pho‘ imprinted 0“ the 2011-

Moral of the story: tosynthesis _ in leaves are poi-
_ 1. Lock your doors, even when you’re in the the prmtmg gnami yet Star‘
house. Leave reminder notes by the door for everyone. IMAGE COURTESY or THE W&L

2. Call the LexPo. C0M’V'UN'CAT'0N3 OFHCE .  . . . . .

3. Make sure you have some defense mechanism '
in your house. For instance, Papa Dee had us place pep- New Student Townhouses for Rent
per spray in strategic locations around the Sandbox. Note: , _ _ _ _
Please make sure you know how to properly use pepper 3 bedrooms, spacious kitchen, walk in pantry, living room, two full _
spray, unless you wanted to entertain your intruder with baths w/ ceramic tile floors, carpeted bedrooms, storage units, 
a comed act. one car garage w/ opener/ washer/dryer hook-up, central heat &

y . .

4- N0t1fY the 90mmUn1tY because Chances are, ' air, on site manager and maintenance staff/ groundskeeper, and

they’re going to try this at other houses as well. In this I snow removal

case, sororities sent emails to their chapters making sure
everyone was aware of the issue. Kudos.

I realize I can’t cover all intruder-related circumstanc-
es, but hey, you’ve got an initial emergency strategy.
Now you can get back to that Judicial Process textbook
instead of worrying about the next invasion.

S 1000.00 a month
Call Hunt Ridge Apts/Saddlebrook Ridge
Located behind Walmart

540-462-3785

 

IM Volleyball Schedule
TUESDAY   WEDNESDAY

Tuesday Volleyball Kappa Alpha Theta
vs. Lambda Chi vs. Alpha Delta Pi
Alpha Doremus Doremus
Doremus @ 7 p.m. @ 7 p.m.
@ 7 p.m. ‘ .
Alpha Delta Pi Sigma Nu .
vs. SAIL vs. SAIL

Doremus Doremus .
@ 8 p.m. @ 8 p.m.

MONDAY

-Pi Kappa Phi
vs. SAIL
Doremus
@ 7 p.m..

THURSDAY

Pi Kappa Alpha
vs’. Lambda Chi Alpha

Sigma Phi Epsilon
vs. Beta Theta Pi
Doremus
@ 8 p.m.

(Sigma Alpha Epsilon
vs. Phi Kappa Psi
Doremus

@ 8 p.m.

 

Now with

. FOUR
4BR/ZBA Units. 7‘ .
Kitchen, Laundry 5‘ ‘ BEDROOMS
& Huge Living Room a A AVAILABLE

  GENERALS’

    

  RETREAT

APARTMENTS

NOT Afﬁliated with Washington & Lee University

 

*Where girls and guys can actually live in the same apartment complex.
*Remember how great that was in the dorms? Can you say CO-ED?
*Where you can walk home from the House or party.

*Where you can actually go homeﬁbetwegn c|as_s§s or before pra<_:tic_e.
*Where you can get 20 more minutg of sleep before leaving for class.
*Where you can live near your friends without having to live with them.

*Un|ess of course you want to live with them, which you can also do here.
 *Where cats and dogs play together.

 

.35

And the trash water & internet are FREE. A A

'«" ‘*‘~:'*:

 

A4 . c .3. ‘

Townhome Style Apartments
On Nelson Street

NOW WITH 4-BR 2 BA lJNITS

OPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY INJANUARY FROM 12-4
COME CHECK us our

 

   
   
 
  

 

5-rnEET

,.oAV"’-;'°"'

54o-464-3573

ian@tbmcom.com Sand Volleyball s. Basketball

THE BUILDING MANABEMENT CO

 

 

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011

  sports

 

 

8 -

Women’s b-ball has strong week

Head women is basketball coach Mandy King scores 100th career win at W&L with 76-56 triumph over S VU

By Alexander Maragos
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee women’s basketball head
coach Mandy King earned her 100th career win
with a 76-56 drubbing of Southern Virginia Uni-
versity last night at the Warner Center.

The Generals played stiﬁing defense and shot
52 percent from the ﬁeld against an overmatched
SVU squad.

King, the winningest coach in program his-
tory, led the Generals in a rout over the county ri-
val, denying the Knights their ﬁrst win in six tries
against W&L. The Generals gained an early lead
and rolled into a 38-18 advantage at halftime, fu-
elediby a 16-6 run over the last seven minutes.
The defending ODAC champions held a tight
grip on the game, leading by as much as 30 mid-

way through the second half.

The Generals were offensively and defensive-
ly dominant in the paint, earning many of their
points underneath the basket while forcing many
Knight 3-point attempts. The Generals’ zone de-
fense did a good job of contesting the Knights’
outside shots, allowing them to shoot only 34 per-
cent from the ﬁeld.

The Generals were led on both ends of the
floor by junior forward Becca Bolton, who scored
26 off the bench, and junior guard Meg Ingram,
who had 19 points, 4 assists and 5 steals. They
were joined in double ﬁgures by junior forward
Katy Wilson, who had 10 points and 7 rebounds.

The Knights, on the other hand, were plagued

by 16 turnovers, many of which were caused by
the full court press that the Generals employed
throughout much of the game. The Knights had
a lot of trouble bringing the ball up the floor, and
found themselves often hastily avoiding a shot-
clock violation. This marks the second game in a
row where the Generals played strong defense.

SVU was led by junior forward Nicole Tol-
man, who had 15 points on 5-of-9 shooting, in
addition to a game-high 9 rebounds. Much of the
Knights’ scoring was generated by second chance
points, as they rebounded very well—30 team re-
bounds to the Generals’ 31.

The mood was light on the Generals’ bench,
as the Knights were never down by less than 16

Coming off the S VU win, women is basketball rallies to beat Eastern Mennonite, 67- 71

By Kelsy Mccraw
STAFF WRITER

A second-half rally led the Washington and
Lee women’s basketball team to a 67-61 victory
over the Eastern Mennonite University Royals on
Saturday afternoon at the Warner Center.

Even though the Generals (10-4) outshot the
Royals (9-6) by 17 total attempts in the first half,
their 22.9 percent goals-per-shot—attempted left
the Generals trailing 33-21 at the halftime buzzer.
The Royals shot 15-for-29 on the ﬁoor.

Junior forward ‘Kari Ann Pfannenstein ex-
plained that the ﬁrst half did not live up to the
Generals’ expectations for themselves. A half-
time regrouping proved necessary.

“We all knew going into the locker room that

W&L Track have strong showin gs

The men defeated Roanoke college in a home meet last Saturday, while the women finished with a tie.

we needed to pick up the pace, get our defense on
track and play with more intensity,” she said.

The refreshed team emerged from the locker
room for the second half, making 56.7 percent of
their attempted shots and holding the Royalsto
just a 37.9 percent. /1

“We came out with a newfound vigor,”/l’fan-
nenstein said. ‘ 

W&L took its ﬁrst lead of the day with 15:14
left in the match.

A string of fouls late in the second half seemed
to slow their momentum, leading to W&L’s big-
gest deﬁcit ofthe half at 55-61. But the Generals
would not let up.

“We just kept our heads cool and decided to
control what we can control and not worry about
the other team or the refs,” Pfannenstein ex-
plained. ‘

With 2:48 ‘left, sophomore forward Katy Wil-
son dominated under the net, making six back-to-
back rebounds that propelled the team to a 63-61
lead in the last minutes of the game. According
to Pfannenstein, Wilson’s detennination helped
keep up their energy.

“She always crashes the board hard and of-
fensive rebounds give us added momentum,” she
said.

After a three-pointer by senior guard Allie

points in the second half.

Following her 100th win, Coach King, now
in her 8th season, received flowers and shared
hugs with her players. She also earned an ovation
from the crowd when her accomplishment was
announced. The Generals rode a 3-game winning
streak into their Jan. 22 match-up against confer-
ence opponent Eastern Mennonite.

Long at 1:03, the Royals failed to answer the next
seven points scored by W&L. The ﬁnal buzzer
declared triumph for the Generals.

The game marked the second meeting of the
two teams for the season. The Generals lost the
ﬁrst game 69-70 in overtime.

The Generals return to action on Tuesday
night at 7 p.m. against ODAC foe Virginia Wes-
leyan University.

STEELE BURROW/ head photographer

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011

THE RING-TUM PHI '

9

 

sports  

from the home meet last Saturday.

  Images continued from page 10  

Generals’ men’s and women's swimming teams competed in two meets in the last two weeks, each bringing sucessful team results. Here are a few photos

Generals fall to ODAC rival  

Men is basketball struggles in a home loss to conference rival Hampclen-Sydney College, falling 11-5 in the season

By Mike Decembrino
STAFF WRITER

Rhythm was the name of the game on Wednes-
day evening, and the Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team could not ﬁnd it as they fell to
the Tigers of Hampden-Sydney College 72-66 at
the W&L Warner Center. Despite a high-energy
crowd and “Pack the Stands Night,” the Generals
could not take advantage of the Tigers. W&L held
the lead only once throughout the game and never
recovered from a slow start that led to only four
points in the ﬁrst 12 minutes. ‘

With 3:33 left to play in the first half, sopho-
more forward J .D. Ey completed an old-fashioned
three-point play to bring the Generals within ﬁve.
This started a 7-0 run that cut Sydney’s lead to one
point at 20-19. Neither team made a three-pointer
in the ﬁrst half with W&L blanking on seven at-
tempts and HSC missing ﬁve. When asked about

the ﬁrst half, Coach Adam Hutchinson said, “We
were moving about a half second too fast, a half
step too quick.” This lack of rhythm carried over
to the second half.

The Generals trailed 23-19 to begin the second
half, but the Tigers pulled ahead to make it 30-22
with 17:45 to play. The ﬁrst trifecta of the game
came 6:23 into the second half when Harrison
George of the Tigers connected from downtown
to put Sydney up 10 points. This three-pointer
began a 10-2 run capped oﬁ" by Andy Fox’s fast
break dunk to make it 44-29 with 12:32 to go.
George went 3-for-3 from downtown and 7-for-7
overall from the ﬁeld in the second half to ﬁnish
as the game’s leading scorer with 26 points.

Senior guard Jason Cimino hit W&L ﬁrst three-
pointer with 11:55 to go in the game. Although

W&L is second in the ODAC in three-point per-
centage at .343, they only shot .167 against the Ti-
gers. Coach Hutchinson attributed this decline in
three-point efﬁciency to the team’s lack of rhythm.
He said, “We were a half step off all night offen-
sively.” The theme of being a half step off carried
over to ﬁeld-goal percentage as W&L shot only
.365 compared to HSC’s .500 mark from the ﬁeld.
The Generals cut the Sydney lead to ﬁve points
with 25mseconds to play but could not squeeze out
the victory. Ey led the Generals with 13 points
going 6-for-9 from the ﬁeld and grabbing seven,
rebounds. Junior guard Jon Guest added 12
points, while ﬁrst-year forward John Rice ﬁnished
as the game’s leader in rebounds with eight.

The loss drops the Generals’ overall record to
11-5 and its conference record to an even 4-4. Af-

ter winning 10 of their ﬁrst 12 games, the team has
hit a rough patch, dropping three of their last four.
The Generals did not hit their magic number of
70 tonight, as they are 9-0 this year when scoring
70 or more points. “This hurts but I’m not disap-
pointed in the guys. I thought the effort was there
tonight,” Hutchinson said. The Generals return to
action on Jan. 26 at Emory and Henry and they
have a chance for redemption against Hampden-
Sydney on Feb. 14.

Wrestling ﬁnishes tough Week

The Generals competed in two meets in as many weeks, each one bringing tough competition for the young team

By Lizz Dye
smrr warren

On Saturday, Jan. 15, the Washington and Lee
wrestling team ﬁnished ﬁfth out of seven teams
as it hosted the W&L Invitational at the Warner
Center. Senior Keith Jaworski was named the
toumament’s most outstanding wrestler.

Washington & Jefferson won the tournament
with 79.5 points and was followed by the Ap-
prentice School in second with 75.5 points, then
NYU (59), West Virginia Tech (52), W&L (43.5),
Scranton (33.5) and Southern Virginia (10).

Jaworksi won his MOP award after winning

thechampionship of the 157-pound weight class.
First-year Eric Fessel, 141 pounds, also won his
weight bracket. Junior David Dennis, 165 pounds,
ﬁnished third in his weight bracket.

The next Saturday, W&L wrestling fell to 1-6
overall and 0-4 overall in the Centennial Confer-
ence with losses to Stevens (49-3) and the 14th
ranked Merchant Marines (51-0) and host Mc-
Daniel (39-9).

The loss to Stevens began with a rough start as
the Generals forfeited the ﬁrst two weight classes

and fell behind 25-0. It wasn’t until junior David
Dennis got W&L on the board with a 5-0 win that
the Generals saw some promise. Unfortunately,
the Generals then had to forfeit three of the ﬁnal
four weight classes to end the competition against
Stevens.

The Generals were limited by four forfeits
against USMMA. The closest individual match

A was a 10-8 loss by ﬁrst-year Eric Fessel to James

Beshacla at 141 pounds. Senior Keith_Jaworski
followed with a 6-3 win over Torin Lehmann at

157 pounds and ﬁrst-year Daniel lgel added a 11-

5 win at 165 lbs to pull within a 15-9 score.
W&L travels to Johns Hopkins on Saturday,

Jan. 29 for a dual match against the Blue Jays.

STEELE BURROW / Head Photographer

 

 

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011

10-

THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

ondeck

Mon Tues WED Tuuns Fm Sm‘ SUN
- er
Men’s 0|!!!" 81
Track & .
new Multl s
11 a.m.
Liberty
Women's ope" 8'
Track 8: MultI's
Fhm 11-a.m.
t .
E a & ’ Virginia
Men's '“°'y
Basketball Henry Wesleyan
2 p.m.
7 p.m.
at Emory &
Women's V"g'"1a Henry
Basketball Wesleyan 4 p_m_
7 p.m.
- Johns
Wrestling Hopklns
1 p.m.
Johns
MOIl'8 Hopkins
Swimming 11 a m
J h
Women's ' 0 "5
swlmmln H0Pk|n5
I 11 a.m.

in the numbers
0

The number of Americans left in the Australian Open. Andy Roddick,
the last American left, ‘lost Sunday in straight sets to Stanislas
Wawrinka. Both Williams sisters are out of the competition nursing
injuries. An American male has not won a tennis major since Roddick

won in 2003.

10].

The number of games W&L’s head women’s basketball coach has won
during her time here. She won her 100th last Tuesday in a 76-56 rout

over Southern Virginia University. Her record now stands at 101-99.

22

The number of points scored by Miami Heat’s Mike Miller in the
2nd quarter alone during Saturday night's game against the Toronto
Rapters. Miller ended the gamieiwith 32 points, giving him 32 points

on the year. LeBron James added 38 points to the scoreboard to

break the Heat's four-game losing streak with a 120-103 win.

8

The number of Super Bowl appearances the Pittsburg Steelers will
have by the end of this season. They will tie the Dallas Cowboys with
the most appearances, but the Steelers have six wins to the Cowboys’
ﬁve. The Green Bay Packers, who also guaranteed their place in the

Super Bowl with a Sunday win, will have five appearances.

soapbox

“lt’s quite nice to overtake somebody who is prob-
ably the best player in the world, perhaps the best
player that ever lived. To be in front of him for a
little bit-—we’ll see how long it takes him to over-
take me again—but you know, it makes me very
proud to be better in the world rankings than the

best player in the world.”

Martin Kaymer overtook Tiger Woods as the Number 2 player in
the world after claiming his third title at the Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf
championship. Courtesy of espn.com.

"With so many Super/Bowl rings, maybe they'll all
retire and go into the jewelry business.”

Former Buccaneers Head Coach John McKay referred to the “Steel
Curtain,” or the Pittsburg Steelers’ four Super Bowl victories in only
six seasons. They are looking to add to their collection with their third
appearance in six years. Courtesy of espn.com.

W&L swimmer competes in last weekend's home meet against Gettysburg College. This was the first

time in decades that the Generals have beaten Gettysburg.

 

Swimming still strong '

W&L men and women compete successfully in back-to-back weeks

By Burl Rolett
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams are rolling after
defeating Gettysburg a week ago and
knocking off Catholic and Marymount
on Saturday.

The women beat Gettysburg by a
score of 151-105. Sophomore Delaney
Rolfe and junior Jocelyn Cassada led the
team with two victories each on the day.
Rolfe cruised to wins in the 200 and 500
free while Cassada took ﬁrst place in the
100 and 200-yard backstroke. Cassada
and Katie Salvati ﬁnished one-two in
both races. .

Other event winners included Ann
McCampbe11 in the 1000 free, Dana
Fredericks in the 100 breaststroke, and
Brittany Ross in the 200 ﬂy. Izzy Brass-
ﬁeld contributed a victory in the 100 free
and Lauren Kasoff won the 100 ﬂy.

Nine W&L men won individual
events and the team scored twelve total
event victories as they topped Gettysburg
by a score of 150-102. F irst-year David
Ireland and junior Brian Stirling led the
team with two top ﬁnishes each. Ireland
won the 200 ﬂy and the 200 breaststroke

See page 9 for more photos.

 

while Stirling took the top spot in the
200 free and the 100 ﬂy.

The Generals ﬁnished one-two in six
events. W&L also took the top three
spots in the 1000 free, 200 ﬂy and the
50 freestyle on their way to their eighth
straight win over Gettysburg. '

Captain Brandon Wilder said, “Com-
ing off of our training trip, we brought a
lot of energy to this meet, and it carried

us to the victory.” Wilder won the 500

free and took second place in 200 free.

Other event winners included Frank
Cullo in the 1000 free, Tyler Gehrs in the
200 free, Wayde Marsh in the 100 back-
stroke, Robert Grattan in the 100 breast-
stroke, Rick Sykes in the 50 free and
Chris Washnock in the 200 backstroke.

Both teams also scored resounding
victories last Saturday. The men beat
Catholic 139-105 and topped Mary-
mount by a score of 152-72.

Ireland led the team with three in-
dividual wins. He took ﬁrst in the 100
breaststroke, 200 breaststroke and the
100 ﬂy. Wilder and Gehrs also won
multiple events. Wilder won the 200‘ﬂy

and the 400 IM while Gehrs won the 50 1

free and the 100 free. Cullo, Marsh and
Eric Shuman also added individual event
victories.

«The Generals won seven of the ﬁrst
eight men’s events and eleven overall.

The women’s team found similar suc-
cess on Saturday, beating Catholic 145-
107 and Marymount 156-91.

Kasotf, Salvati and Cassada all won
two individual events. Kasoff’s victo-
ries came in the 100 ﬂy and 200 free.
Salvati took ﬁrst in the 100. breaststroke
and the 400 IM, and Cassada won the 50
free and the 200 breaststroke.

Brittany Ross, Delaney Rolfe and
Izzy Brassﬁeld also earned individual
victories. Cassada, Kasoff, Ross and
Brassﬁeld also won the 200 Medley Re-
lay. .
The W&L men now hold an 8-3 re-
cord and the women are 8-2. Both teams
will travel to Johns Hopkins this Satur-
day. This will be their ﬁnal meet before
the ODAC championships.

‘‘>—,.-; 9-75‘

 

