 

 

twin to go Division '

)

sPoR1's / page 8

Charlie Sheen: geedy or fratty?

Columnist Mary-Katherine Beaumont Carrington
analyzes the former Two and a Half Men star and
wonders if his tiger’s blood is enough to get him a bid.

oPm|oNs / page 4

    

MONDAY, APRIL 4,2011 B/T

THE

WASHINGTON AND .

STUDENTS All]

run THE

STUVDEIITS

SEE UNIVERSITY

HE R1No—TUM PI-11.

SIIITZE 1597'

VOLUME CXIV,

NUMBER 16

New spring
term addition

Alum is $50 millionfunds
creation of campus gorilla pit

By Samuel Adams
BREWER, PATRIOT

In a joint announcement Thursday, the University
Registrar, along with the Biology Department and
the Development Office, showcased the newest on-
campus Spring Term class. According to the syllabus,
Biology 369, Wildlife Management, will be exploring
gorillas in the wild — here in Lexington. Not even a
trip to the Natural Bridge Safari Park will be neces-
sary for the students, as the gorillas will be housed
in an enclosure between the Commons and Woods
Creek Apartments.

According to the Development Office, the ability
to .purc}fase and contain the apes was courtesy of a
$50 million gift from an anonymous alumnus, who
apparently thought that W&L had no other pressing
issues. "i,‘Certainly the relatively new concert hall is
supposed to have leaking pipes, and of course the
fence around Payne Hall will be taken down in time
for graduation,” said this nameless alum. “I think
what today’s students need is the ability to examine
gorillas in the wild in the morning and tube the Maury
in the aftemoon.”

Biology professors were ecstatic over the addition
of the ape enclosure. One said, “I will ﬁnally be able
to engage students in my research about the social
and mating habits of bipedal primates, ones closely
relatedito those found on Windfall Hill. My commute
time to my research ﬁeld will be cut in half.”

The’ gorillas will arrive in Lexington next week.
According to Dining Services, which has the new re-
sponsibility of helping produce the food to feed the
gorillas, sustainably-produced, fair-trade organic ba-
nanas will be the staple of choice for the apes.

Tour guides were excited about a new stop on their
route.

“It used to be that when we walked over the foot-
bridge into or out of the back of the Commons, we
just had to ramble about how great W&L is,” one
said. “Now we can stop and point out the gorillas.
This allows us to save all our bullshit for the rest of
the tour." Did you know that Washington and Lee is
the onlyliberal arts college with at Lee Chapel Vam-
pire, championship sports teams and a gorilla pit?
OH GOD IT’S A SIGN WITH OUR SEXUAL AS-
SAULT RATE! TAKE IT DOWN, TAKE IT DOWN,
TAKE IT DOWN.” V _

The Music Department and the Class of 201 l were
reportedl73/V upset that the university was spending $50
million oh a gorilla pit, but nobody was able to ﬁgure
out why.‘

Social ladder
too steep

F rea/it social climbing
A accident injures two ﬁrst-
year students

By Mercedes Benn
snxrr wmr-an

Reports have come in to the Ring-tum Phi regard-
ing a scare involving two ﬁrst-year students during
a freak social climbing accident this weekend. The
names of the students, one male and one female, are
being withheld in an attempt to protect their reputa-
tions. (But just ask around at srat lunch and you can
ﬁnd out.)

Both students are reported to be in good physical
health but,are allegedly seeking immediate transfer
applicationsilto similar small and southern private lib-
eral arts colleges like Sewanee.

We havereceived reports that this weekend’s inci-
dent was not the ﬁrst social climbing attempt by the
couple. Both allegedly attempted to secure early bids
during theirvisits to campus on Accepted Students
Day in 2010.

The only information we have regarding the stu-
dents is that the male attended a prestigious northern
prep school in a hotbed lacrosse area, and the female
hails from a nondescript and interchangeable southern
city where she was set to debut this coming winter.

While the details of the accident are still uncon-
ﬁrmed, sources say that a golden ladder, a fanny pack,
a Range Rover, Kenan & Kel and six cases of old-
school 4 Lokg were believed to have been involved.

 

Dotson tests positive  

Dean Dotson denies steroids as the reason for his perfect record . '

By Tara Patrick
STAFF WRITER

Associate Dean of Students and
Student Affairs Brandon Dotson test-
ed positive for a banned substance
last Tuesday. After a series of random
drug tests in the dean’s office, Dean
Dotson tested positive for Human
Growth Hormone, otherwise known
by nickname HGH.

Dotson and his lawyer ‘both de-
nied the allegations that he is in any
way connected to the steroid, which
has been the center of numerous dop-
ing cases, including Rodney Harri-
son and Andy Pettitte. '

The health center said they were
becoming suspicious of doping in
the dean’s office after “records for
strikes and other disciplinary mea-
sures were being repeatedly broken
year after year.” Dean Dotson, the

God’s gift to

T he family friend returns the ‘famous mane,

By Michael Sorrentino
STAFF WRITER

Burr Datz’s hair was returned
to his rightful owner last Friday. In
a ceremony without much fanfare,
God gave back Burr Datz’s ﬂowing
gray locks.

Burr Datz, the leader of campus
ministry at St. Patrick’s Church in
Lexington and long time director
of leadership development and reli-
gious life at Washington and Lee, de-
cided to get a haircut for the ﬁrst time
in IS years when he participated in
a fundraiser called “Locks of Love.”
He said he was pleased to have his
famous mane back on his head. “It’s
been weird without it,” Burr Datz
stated.

After Burr Dat2’s wife, Lisa, saw

Rebecca Black key

YouTube sensation to give the address at Mock Con next year,

By Ida Claire Slate
STAFF WRITER

Now that Karl Rove has been of-
ficially named the speaker for Mock
Convention’s Spring Kick-Off, the
campus has turned to one question:
who will give the keynote address at
the convention next year?

Answer: Rebecca Black.

That’s right, you heard it here
ﬁrst. YouTube sensation Rebecca
Black will join the likes of Bill Clin-
ton and Jimmy Carter and entertain
the student body with her brilliant
lyrical creations.

ofﬁce’s equivalent of.Mark McG-
wire, is an upcoming star in the ﬁeld
of giving out strikes. Earlier this year
President Ruscio told the Phi, “When
it comes to giving out strikes, we
have a real star on our hands in Dean
Dotson. He really is the future of our
organization.”

After being touted as a coveted
prospect in the dean farm leagues,
Washington and Lee recently signed
Dean Dotson to a long term contract.
At the time of the signing, many
scouts were calling Dean Dotson,
“the best disciplinarian since Robert
E. Lee.” After beginning his career
with fairly standard strike numbers,
friends of Dean Dotson said that he
was “feeling the pressure of his posi-
tion” and “felt that he wasn’t living

Burr’s lack of hair for the ﬁrst time,
she was initially pleased. “We will
save tons of money on shampoo and
conditioner each month,” she noted.
However, as time wore on, Burr’s
lack of long, ﬂowing hair started to
get to her. So, she decided that she
had to ask for a favor from an old
family friend.

God and the Datzs have always
been on a ﬁrst name basis. “Burr
and I ﬁrst started becoming friends
when he helped me and the saints
work on our team building,” God
said in an exclusive interview with
the Phi. “We were having problems
with our coordination, and honestly,
everyone was kind of tired of Saint

When asked about the opportu-
nity, Black said she will be “partyin’
partyin’ yeah.”

Students and professors are also
planning to “party” when Black is on
campus. In fact, one politics profes-
sor could hardly contain hisjoy after
the announcement.

“We-we-we so excited,” said
the professor, who asked to remain
anonymous in order to retain his stu-
dents’ respect.

Black has yet to decide where she

 

up to the responsibil-

ity his contract had '
given him.”  j
/I "4 Over

the past two years,

Dean Dotson has redeﬁned

the position ofAssociate Dean of
Students and Student Affairs.

One colleague recently stated,
“Most deans of student affairs really
don’t focus enough on the affairs part
ofthejob; not Dean Dotson, he really
puts the affairs in ‘student affairs.”

This positive test comes as a
shock to both Dotson and the dean
community. “If he’s doing it, then
who knows how many deans could
be boosting their numbers artiﬁcial-
ly,” one student stated before her SJC

Burr:

hearing.

Dotson hopes to
successfully challenge the pos-
itive tests with further testing. “This
ﬁght is not over,” Dotson told media
members in a press conference earli-
er this morning. “My team and I will
prove once and for all that this ‘A’
sample was a false positive. Further-
more, we will clean my besmirched
name that has been tarnished by this
heinous accusation.” v

hair  

” Datz glad to have his ﬂowing locks back

Bartholomew. However, after getting
to learn a few fun facts about every-
body, we all came started to come
together as a team. Now, Doubting
Thomas is more ofa Terriﬁc Thomas
thanks to his ability to get everyone
through the tire.”

God also told the Phi that he
owed the Datzs a major favor after
Lisa Datz let Jesus off the hook for
getting caught drinking a little too
much of his own blood and trying to
walk home. “We were all very em-
barrassed by that one here in heaven,
and thank Me that Lisa was able to
get Jesus a ride home,” God told the
Phi. “Because of her help with that
whole situation, I thought that now

will sit during the convention.

“Kickin’ in the front seat, sittin’
in the back seat,” Black said. “Gotta
make my mind up, which seat can I
take?”

Black’s speech is expected to start
at 7:15, after she goes downstairs,
has her bowl and "cereal.

The speech will, of course, be on
a Friday.

The day after her speech will
be Saturday and, in Black’s words
“Sunday comes after...wards.”

would be a good time to return the
favor.” ,

Last Sunday, God and his entou-
rage showed up at St. Patrick’s to
formally return Burr Datz’s hair. As
promised, the ceremony was kept
mostly a secret because “ever since
that whole Middle Ages thing, I’ve
tried to a lower profile,” God told the
Phi.

Now with hair back on his head,
Burr Datz can now reclaim the title
of big mane on campus, and Lisa
Datz couldn’t be happier.

“My long hair was starting to get
lonely, but now it has some compa-
ny!” she said.

note?

ollowing Rove ’s kick-off

Black said she may decide to
attend Washington and Lee after
speaking.

“I don’t want this weekend to
end,” she said.

Neither do we, R-B, neither do
we.

Frat-Star finds religion

Student claims to have been touched by noodly appendage, wants raise awareness

By Forty-Two
STAFF WRITER

Hillel house is facing new com-
petition on campus in the fonn of the
Church ofthe Flying Spaghetti Mon-
ster. In a token effort at inclusion and
open-mindedness, Washington and
Lee is allowing Tripp “Ocho” Buck-
ley Anderson Wallingstinworth VIII
to bring his new faith to the campus
community. The new faculty advi-
sor for this budding religion said,
“We are thrilled to help bring such
a worthy and philanthropic faith to
campus.”

When asked, Wallingstinworth’s
freshman roommate described Wall-
ingstinworth as, “a frequent sup-
porter of local late night activities.”
These late night activities bear a
likeriess to those central to the new
religion Wallingstingworth wants the
campus to get intimately acquainted
with. The cornerstone of the religion
boasts a heaven of beer volcanoes
and stripper factories. '

And, Wallingstinworth’s devo-
tion to this religion does not stop

there. He has taken to adhering to the
doctrine of the Church of the Flying
Spaghetti Monster by donning pirate
garments. He hopes that by dressing
like a buccaneer he can prevent the
extinction of the masters of the sea,
therefore combating recent natural
disasters associated with their disap-
pearance. Followers of the delicious
pasta monster believe that pirates are
divine beings which have been por-
trayed negatively by Christian propa-
gandists for centuries.

Wallingstinworth plans to hold
a charity spaghetti dinner to raise
funds for his new religious center. He
will be charging $50 per plate, which
can be swiped home.

    
   
   

  

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON. VA 2445a
MAY 0 3 an

 

\\S"'.
\\‘

. . \

‘e‘§§\§}. Stockton speaks out  

OPINIONS /page 

Head coach

Women’s lax destroys ‘Sweet “
Brlar, 2_:l. - _
Brooke Diamond gains 50th

0.”

career win.

SPORTS / page 8

MONDAY, APRIL 4, 20 11

1 WASHINGTON AND

LEE UNIVERSITY S  

  THE R1No—TU"“'

WWW

BY THE SILIDEHTS ‘Alli! FOR THE STUDENTS SIIIEE 1391'

V”), MUS... ii

I I‘ll.

VOLUME CXIV, NUMBER 16

Hudson
indicted  

W&L junior charged with

selling marijuana

Bysage Um
STAFF WRITER

Harrison Hudson, junior football player, has
been indicted on four felony counts for the sale of

marijuana.

Hudson was indicted by a Rockbridge County
Circuit Court grand jury on Feb. 7 for two charges
for distributing marijuana and two charges for dis-
tributing on school property last year in March and

April. He was arrested a few days ago.

I

Hudson, 2l, told the Roanoke Times last week
that he never sold marijuana. However, the paper

reported that Hudson sold to an undercover police _

informant. ,

Public defender Ross Haine was appointed to de-

fend Hudson at a hearing on March 14.

Hudson’s drug arrest is not the ﬁrst at Washing-
ton and Lee. Former W&L student Richard Hahn
is serving a three-year sentence for selling cocaine

after he did not deny the charges.

Hudson was recently elected to be a tri-captain
for the football team and led the team to winning the

ODACS last fall.

The Social

Animal

Author and columnist David

Brooks speaks at W&L

By Paige Gance
STAFF WRITER

Lee Chapel ,was packed beyond capacity by
the time Tom Wolfe, wearing his trademark white
suit, introduced New York Times columnist David
Brooks. Brooks was the keynote speaker for the
eighth annual Tom Wolfe weekend seminar, co-
sponsored by the 20I2 Mock Convention and the
Class of I95], in honor of their classmate Wolfe,
best-selling author and renownedjoumalist.

. The lecture, titled “Paradise Imagined: Political
and Social Values in the Facebook Era,” centered on
themes ofhow modern culture can have both an ob-
vious and subtle inﬂuence on social interaction and
what aspects of life we ﬁnd most important.

Brooks said that he always wanted to be a writer.
For that role he needed “to see the visible and the
invisible.” He described how in his early days of
journalism helused to people watch at shopping cen-
ters or observe the social skills of politicians.

A writer needs to see the surface and the under-
currents, said Brooks, “that’s what Tom [Wolfe] has

done, and what I try and do.”

Brooks said that many of the recent studies com-
ing out ofﬁelds like neuroscience and psychology
are placing more emphasis on factors that can’t be
measured. Terms like “mindsight,” the ability to
understand what is going on in another’s head, and
“metis,” being able to identify what matters, may be
more important in determining success in life than
traditional factors like SAT scores and GPA, said

Brooks.

According to Brooks, the three main insights
he "has gleaned from these scientiﬁc ﬁelds are that
most thinking is unconscious, emotion and reason
are not opposed, and what he calls interpenetration

ofminds.

“A lot of the smartest action is unconscious,”

said Brooks.

He then turned to the subject of American cul-
ture, both its praiseworthy aspects and troublesome
vices. Because of our “moral materialism,” our de-
sire to make it in life, Brooks said he will “never be
pessimistic about the future ofAmerica.’’ ‘

He said he has seen, however, a shift from hu-
mility to self-expression, narcissism and the rise the
“Me” culture. In a I950 Gallup poll, 12 percent of
high school seniors thought they were important. In
2005, that number ballooned to 80 percent. Another
study revealed that when asked to choose between
receiving a compliment or sex, more people chose

the former. _
“Wrong answer,” said Brooks.

Nevertheless, Brooks expressed a conﬁdence in
the youngest generation based on a number of social

indicators.

“Crimes are down, teenage pregnancies are
down, violence is down, suicides are down, drug

use is down," he said.

Brooks is the author of Bobos In Paradise.‘ The
New Upper Class and How T hey Got There and On

Paradise Drive." How We Live Now (And Always _

Have) in the Future Tense.

His latest book is The Socia/Aninzal: The Hidden
Sources ofLove, Character, and Achievement.

Student Body Hearing  

Editor ’s note.‘ Although the facts of this case are conﬁdential, the hearing chair and
seargant-at—arms support coverage of the hearing policies and procedures

By Eleanor Kennedy
N EW s E D IT 0 R

The Washington and Lee com-
munity will gather in Lee Chapel this
Thursday for the open hearing of a
student found guilty of an Honor Vi-
olation by the Executive Committee.

According to the White Book,
which contains the regulations of
the Honor System, a student who is
found guilty of an Honor Violation
may appeal the decision to a Student
Body Hearing.

If a student accepts the E.C.’s
initial decision, he may withdraw
from the university. But if the student
chooses to take "the case to an open
hearing and is found guilty, he will be
expelled and his transcript will read
“dismissed.”

The last open hearing on W&L’s
campus happened four years ago. At
that hearing the accused student was
found not guilty. Before that hearing,
there had not been one for 16 years.

Last week, the E.C. advocates and
honor advocates of the accused se-
lected a chair. Third year law student
Katharine Lester, president of the
Student Bar Association, is serving
as chair for the hearing.

Junior Chris Washnock was ap-
pointed sergeant-at-arms by the E.C.

last week as well.
According to the White Book,

open hearings are conducted in front ,

a jury of 12 students. In order to cre-
ate the jury, the registrar generated a
list of 75 potential jurors. Washnock
contacted all 75 and, following to the
procedures in the White Book, the
list is being narrowed to 14 jurors.
Twelve will sit asjurors and two will
serve as alternates.

The hearing will begin at 9 a.m.
Thursday morning. Doors will open
at 8 a.m.

Sergeant-at-arms Chris Washnock
said students will be able to enter and
leave the chapel after opening state-
ments and between witnesses.

The hearing will close for lunch
between noon and l :30 but doors will
reopen at 1:00 ‘pm.

Everyone must leave the chapel
during the lunch hour.

“If you come at 8 a.m. expecting
to stay through the whole hearing,
you will be ushered out at noon,”
Washnock said.

Depending on the number of wit-
nesses, Washnock said the trial may
end any time between 5 and 7 p.m.

After closing statements, the jury

will deliberate. The White Book
does not mandate a unanimous deci-
sion. Eight votes either way will be
enough to ﬁnd the accused guilty or
not guilty.

When a verdict has been reached,
the bells of Washington Hall will ring
and students will be readmitted. The
chair will announce the verdict 20
minutes after the bells ring.

Although all members of the
campus community are invited to the
hearing, entrance is not guaranteed.
Lee Chapel has 500 seats and no one
will be allowed to stand. Those who
do wish to attend must be dressed in
Lee Chapel attire and have a valid
current l.D. card.

Attendees may not bring back-
packs, purses, notebooks, pens,
phones, cameras or any other record-
ing devices into the chapel. Alcohol
is also forbidden and students who
choose to drink beforehand will be
turned away, Washnock said.

“We will also be actively check-
ing for visual signs of intoxication,”
Washnock said. .

As the two broadcast mailers
which have been sent to the com-
munity emphasized, the facts of the

hearing must be kept conﬁdential.
Washnock said he hopes students
will respect both the Honor System
and the accused student.

“If you’re showing up to Lee
Chapel looking for a spectacle, then
you have the wrong attitude,” Wash-
nock said. “And if you’re looking for
i_dle gossip then you have the wrong
frame of mind as well.”

The White Book is available in
PDF form on the E.C. web page. Stu-
dent who have questions about the
way the hearing will run can consult
the section titled “Procedure for the
Student Body Hearing.”

The hearing is entirely student
run. Washnock said it’s important to
remember that the Honor System is
decided on and administered by stu-
dents and students alone.

“This is our hearing,” Washnock
said. “This is not Kate [Lester]’s
hearing, this is not my hearing, this
is not the E.C.’s hearing. This is our
hearing.”

Armstrong wins Mr. W&L

Campus-widecontest raises money for former residents of Pole 2 by bidding onfrat men

By Emily Mosh
STAFF WRITER

And the title goes to...David
Armstrong!

Armstrong, a senior Sigma Chi, is
officially been the ﬁrst Mr. W&L.

Members of Kappa Alpha Theta,
Kappa Delta and the Peer Counsel-
ing Service came together this past
week to help the girls of Pole 2
whose home was destroyed in a ﬁre
last month.

Sophomores Caroline Schmidt
and Elizabeth Bucklee came up with
the idea ofthe Mr.‘ W&L contest.

“We talked to the peer counselors
about it," said Schmidt. “We really
wanted to get them in on the idea.
Doing that got the school involved
on a broader spectrum.”

Schmidt emailed each fraternity
on campus and explained the idea.
She asked them each to send her a
nominee for the contest and a wa-
ger fora funny activity
he would do if he won.

All 15 fraternities

 
   
 
 
   
  
  

responded to her with a nominee,
though one did have to back out of
the contest at the last minute. The

wagers ranged from hair dying to

fantasy dates, from the nominee
dancing in Commons to wearing full
spandex body suits on the hill.

Students from the organizations
involved manned a table in the Com-
mons from Tuesday until Friday
where people could donate toward
their favorite candidate.

Armstrong surpassed the runner
up at the last minute and ended up
winning by almost $1,400.

“I was chosen [as a nominee] by
the‘ executive committee of our fra-
ternity,” said Armstrong. “I’m pretty
pumped about the whole wager.”

Arrnstrong’s ofﬁcial wager read:
“David Armstrong will dye his hair
a color of the girls’ choosing, spend
the rest of his days at W&L rid-
ing around campus on a mini bike,
wearing a leather jacket, carrying

 

and worn denim‘ for a week.

a Super Soaker gun, acting like Ar-
nold Schwarzenegger in The Tenni-
nator, and saving people from harm
and whatnot. He will also Dougie in
front of the commons during the ﬁrst

week of Spring Term (Date TBA),

while his Super Soaker and Mini
Bike stand by.”

“Honestly, what guy doesn’t want
to roll around campus acting like the
Tenninator? 'l’m ordering the mini
bike today,” he said. “You can ex-
pect me to start rolling around when
Spring Term starts.”

Armstrong does plan on dying his
hair and insisted he won’t complain
about it, regardless of the girls’ color
choice.

According to the ofﬁcial event
page for the contest, “whoever wins
will live in infamy and get a Mr.
W&L banner in the commons next
week.”

Armstrong said he’d like to see
the Mr. W&L Contest be an annual

event, beneﬁtting local charities. He
also has a few other ideas for future
fundraising efforts by the W&L com-
munity.

“When is the Miss W&L compe-
tition going to start up? “ Armstrong
asked. ‘‘I mean, if we are going to
celebrate one male student, we prob-
ably need to celebrate one female
student, as well.”

All those involved in making this
year’s contest happen said they were
blown away by its success.

“It just really shows how kind
people are,” said Schmidt. “They
want to be involved, they want to
help.” .

So keep an eye out for a Termi-
nator look-alike during Spring Term,
and know that no matter what color
his hair is, he’s rolling around on his
mini bike for all the right reasons.

Kappa Sigma - Yates Wilburn would have danced to 80’s jams in front of Commons
from 11:30-12:30 p.m. I
Lamda Chi Alpha (Lamda) - Scott Centorino would have worn a dress for the last three
days of class} ' . ' ‘
Phi Delta Theta (Phi Delt) - Will Andrew would have recited his favorite “Star.Wars,” “Lord of

the Rings” and generic video quotes outside commons.

Phi Gamma Delta (FI GI) - Kane Thomas would have played songs in the commons as “Naked Cowboy” at noon on

Monday.

Phi Kappa Psi (Phi Psi) - Wayde March would’ve had a hair-petting booth so that people could’Ve appreciate his

ﬂowing locks.

Phi Kappa Sigma 03hi Kapp) - Jared

between the commons and the library. Preferably in traditional Scottish attire.
- Phi Kappa Alpha (PiKA) - Ian Reid would’ve worn a dress to a day of classes and to a party of the Pole 2 Girls’

choice.

Mitchell would’ve given a free bagpipe concert in the outdoor atrium in

Pi Kappa Phi (Pi Phi).- Cody Smith would have performed his campus-wide famous dance, Ice Cream Scoops.

Sigma Alpha Epsiolon (SAE) - Austin Brandstetter would have worn his full (tightly covering the head, face, entire
body like spandex) blue-man suit on the hill for an entire week. A
Sigma Chi - Too long! Look in the article. ' _
Sigma Nu (SNu) - Phil Jackson would have shaved his head (possibly with a trident).

Sigma Phi Epsilon (Sig Ep) - Robert Wason would have gone on an Edward Cullen Fantasy Date.

Mr. W&L Contestants .,

Beta Theta Pi (Beta) - JD Ey would have dyed his hair and put it into a mohawkl‘
Kappa Alpha Order (KA) - David Williams would have dyed his hair red, white and blue

' U

 

MONDAY,

APRlL‘4, 2011

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI 0

 

pinions

 

 The problemwit J-School majors

By not having more journalism students participate in the Ring-tum Phi, the Journalism School is hurting its image

By Stockton Bullitt
OPINIONS EDITOR

I’d like you to imagine a couple of

scenarios before we get into the meatw

ofmy article. Imagine you are sitting in
the stands watching a Washington and
Lee football game. Even though it’s the
ﬁrst half (otherwise why would you be
watching?), the Generals are already
losing by quite a few points.

As you are contemplating which
party you will attend in the late after-
noon, you hear a bawling laugh in the
row in front of you. Sitting in front of
you is a 350 pound, 6’5” behemoth ofa
sophomore taking delight in the feeble

- efforts of the 200 pound General offen-

sive lineman.

Now tell me, wouldn’t you see
something wrong with this situation?

How about if you hear a business
major making fun of the historians who
are horribly running WlS’s portfolio
into the ground?

What would you think about the
politics department dissuading their

. * students to stay away from Mock Con?

Maybe it’s me, but doesn’t the suc-
cess of Mock Convention have at least
some reflection on the politics depart-
ment?

Thankfully, we don’t‘ have any of
these problems on campus. Our football
team is well sized enough to have the
most fearsome ground game since Jim
Brown’s Browns; WIS is ﬁlled with
ﬁnance nerds who are turned on by
spreadsheets and stress tests; and Mock
Con is fully staffed by hopeful politicos
so dedicated to the Republican cause,
they have started using Boehner’s self-
tanner.

However, we here at the Ring-tum
Phi ﬁnd ourselves the black sheep of
W&L’s journalism family. So I have
an opinion for you, what the hell is the
matter with a department that doesn’t
support its own student organization?

This brings me to my next point. I
freaking hate copy editors. They ruin
my jokes and usually take out most of
the material that would make my col-
umns a little too explicit. Worst of all,
they beat me to the punch.

Last week, copy editor Samuel
Gilleran had a wonderful response to
a letter to the editor about me. He did
a wonderful job pointing out that most
of the staff at the Ring Tum Phi aren’t
actually part of thejoumalism school.

The head editors mostly are J-
School students, but they do an inor-
dinate amount of work. If this were
Harvard, I would be totally cool with
my editor-in-chief staying up until four
or ﬁve in the morning every weekend
because I would know that there were
at least a hundred people vying for her
job. However, this is W&L, and she
is pulling those hours simply because
there simply aren’t enough people with
her expertise to help out her work load.

Now, I should explain a little about
me. To paraphrase The Hangover, I’m
no hero, I’m just a politics major. I have
been the opinions editor of the Ring-
tum Phi for the last two years for two
reasons: I) I have such a deﬂated ‘sense
of self worth that I feel that I need to

legitimize myself by seeing my name

in print (in other words, I’m cocky as
shit) and 2) nobody else wants the job.
I never have and never will take a jour-
nalism class at this school, meaning that
I probably shouldn’t be an editor, yet,
here I am. Honestly, if this were ﬁve
years ago and two seniors had realized
how to use goddamn pseudonyms when
writing a bracket referencing students
at this school, I would be writing for
The Trident right now.

Also, I am a huge hypocrite. I ac-
tively pursue reactions that come in the
form of letters to the editor, and when
my writers do receive criticism, I tell
them to not take it personally and to not
blow a gasket.

However, last week a journalism
student wrote a letter to the editor, and I
still can’t ﬁnd my gasket.

It wasn’t because he said that I was
exploiting the Pole 2 ﬁre by reporting
three incorrect facts. I fail to realize
how me writing down the wrong ad-
dress helps me selﬁshly utilize off of
the ﬁre, but I’m sure the writer of that

letter knew what exploitation actually
was.

Look, I didn’t even ﬁnd it that ironic
that he told me that I was disrespect-
ing journalism by reporting incorrect
facts when, later in the same issue, he
incorrectly reported that the next golf
tournament was on Friday ,April 1st
(according to the athletic website, it’s
on Monday, April 4th ). Okay, maybe
it was a little ironic (little advice, next
time you try and call to kettle black,
make sure you aren’t a pot). Still, the
main problem I have with this letter to
the editor wasn’t that I was getting criti-
cized because I got over that after a few
tears in the fetal position. The problem
I had was that this sentiment is emblem-
atic of the entire J-School.

I have had arguments with joumal-
ism students about working for the
Ring-tum Phi before. There are two
popular responses for why the Ring-
tum Phi isn’t chock full of journalism
students.

The ﬁrst argument at least makes
sense. Journalism students are far too
busy working on the Rockbridge Re-
port to make enough time in their days
to also work on the Phi. I get that. For
the ﬁrst time in my career here at W&L,
I checked out the Rockbridge Report
website. I gotta hand it to the producers
of that website, it’s well run and looks
fantastic. Although the site is well done
and the YouTube videos by “wlunews”
are also well produced, why do these
two mediums of information work at
such an expense to both the Ring Tum
Phi and the student body in general?
This is where I see more of a structural
issue within the J-School than simply
individual decisions by the students
themselves.

For the journalism school, the Rock-
bridge Report newscast and online edi-
tion are both superior and separate from
the Ring-tum Phi. This is because the
journalism school dare not feign inter-
est in lowly student issues in lowly pa-
per print media. That’s the past!

Also, I’m guessing that the Rock-

, WASHINGT ON AND LEE
‘ ‘&UNIVERSITY STORE

bridge Report isn’t serving as many
people as its wonderful production sug-
gests it does, because otherwise their
videos wouldn’t struggle to achieve 100
total views.

To quickly sum up that last point for
the alumni and parents who arereading
this article: your tuition and donation
money is going towards very serious
production that is not being watched by
the majority of residents in Rockbridge
County.

Likewise, your money is funding
classes such as Journalism 353: Opin-
ion Writing (thanks, Registrar!) that

cannot seem to produce a single student I

interested in writing a single opinion for
the school newspaper you are now read-
ing. Find a problem with that?

This brings me to my biggest prob-
lem with the entire structural conun-
drum of the journalism school and the
second argument I usually hear from
J-School majors. I .

They tell me, “Why should ljoin the
Phi when it’s already bad? It’s not like‘
I’m going to make more majors join or
make the paper better by myself.” May-
be it’s the dirty liberal in me. Maybe
it’s the optimist in me. Or maybe it’s
the fact that this argument is simply
bullshit. Regardless, I think that a few
more joumalsim students participating
in acutal student journalism would help
the Phi out tremendously. The mindset
these journalism majors have means
that there is a deeper problem with the
J-School.

To put it bluntly, the journalism
school at W&L looks down with dis-
dain at the Ring-tum Phi’s alternative
method of media the exact same way
that the journalism industry looked
down with disdain at the new media
wave a decade ago.

In this way, the journalism school
is perfectly setting up their students to
graduate with the same sense of elitism
that most of their dying industry shares.
I am pretty sure that W&L wouldn’t
hire former editors who refused to em-
brace new journalism during the onset

UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS
Do YOU WANT

CASH FOR SPRING BREAK?

Fihirhea’ exa/hr? Before heaa'z'hg home,

hrihgj/oar home; to theE/ma’ Commons Atria/72

of the age of online media 10 years ago,
but given the way that they are refusing
to embrace our different form of jour-
nalism, I wouldn’t be that surprised.

The letter in response to my article
stated, “Newspapers and other legiti-
mate news organizations will have
no future if they stoop to the level of
blogs and Twitter.” Considering how
dearly newspapers are paying for only
recently resorting to the level of blogs
and Twitter (see: @nytimes and http://
www.nytimes.com/interactive/blogs/
directory.html), I think the biggest
problem newspapers are having isn’t
allying themselves with different forms
of content or reporting incorrect facts,
which I’m told newspapers also do
quite frequently. Rather, the main mis-
take newspapers made was being too
overconﬁdent in their own self worth
to ﬁnd viable income options for their
online content during the origination of
the intemet boom. But, hey, what do I
know? Why don’t you ask WIS because
they actually have business majors in
their organization?

We here at the Ring-tum Phi have
seen an editor quit because he or she
did not want his or her participation in
the Ring-tum Phi mentioned on his or
her resume. Perplexing as that logic is,
it is not uncommon among journalism
students at this school.

So, J-School, I have one last request
before you collectively write the letter
to the editor that will end all letters to
the editor: please keep making sure the
Ring-tum Phi stays off your resumes
and the unwatched YouTube videos
stay on them.

I want journalism to be RESPECT-
ED because it’s always important to re-
spect those who are quickly approach-

ing irrelevance. Enjoy your high status -

in the industry, and I’ll keep writing
about frats and Twitter.

CASH for your books!

(up to 50% of Value of books)

Help your school provide more used, lower priced books for future terms!

Buyback will take place in the Elrod Commons Atrium for 8 days!
Thursday & Friday, April 7 & 8. . . . . . . . 9 a.m. — 6 p.m.

Saturday,April9 

10 a.m. - 4 p.m.

Monday thru Friday, April 11 — 15 . . . . . . . 9 a.m. — 6 p.m.

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

M O NIDAY, APRIL 4, 2011

opinions

 

Getting to know Various classmates on a new level .

Campbell Burr asks questions to random students and discovers much more about them than she thought she would

By Campbell Burr
STAFF WRITER

You sit with them in class. You greet
them on the Colonnade. You dance with
them at band parties. You sing with
them on Traveler. You hook up with
them. But do you really know them?
Here are some stories to get you better
acquainted with some of the faces you
see every day.

CB: Pat, if you could change one
quality that most girls have, what would
it be?

“The ﬁrst thing that comes to my
mind when I see girls is, ‘What would
my mom think?’ For this I have a very
critical way of looking at girls. I ﬁnd
myself preferring more conservatively
dressed girls. Around campus, I feel
embarrassed and ashamed at myself
for looking at a tight ﬁtting blouse or
a short skirt. I usually correct this mis-

 

take pretty quickly, but in most cases
what’s done is done. I follow these
episodes with a short video conference
with Mommy to purge these impure
thoughts. It’s a confession in a way. I
want to see girls in one-piece bathing
suits, skirts so long that they are frayed
from sweeping the ground and puffy
jackets year round. Cover up, honestly.
I don’t want to know ifthey have an in-
me or an outie until our wedding night.
Also ifa girl makes eye contact with me
before the third date, we’re dunzo. With

these standards in mind, my ideal girl in
terms of my favorite actresses has the
innocence of Bree Olson, a lower unit
similar to Tori Black’s and a top side
like a young Sophie Dee.”

CB: Jared, describe your ﬁrst kiss.

“My ﬁrst kiss was everything it was
hyped up to be, straight outof a movie.
I asked the certain someone to go for a
walk and then a short time after play-

    

ing on a playground, it happened. I did
not see it coming but it did. It was a
funny feeling that is hard to describe.
It’s that excitement where the rest of the
night you feel like a million bucks. The
only stipulation is that the girl never re-
sponded to me the next day. Girls are
lame.”

CB: Amanda, describe your most
embarrassing moment.

“This past fall I was fortunate
enough to study abroad at St Andrews
University for the W&L Organic Chem-

, istry Partnership. I learned all sorts of
things over there, some academic, while
others were more... life lessons, if you
will. One such life lesson involved the
holiday of Halloween, a Troll doll cos-
tume and a few too many Tesco brand
wine juice boxes. The next morning,
being the diligent student that I am, I
got out ofbed, looked at my wildly pink

  — — WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY A —

C THE R1No:ruIvIPH1.

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
STOCKTON BULLITT

 

hair and decided that going to organic
was more important than washing the
heinous pink dye out of my hair. This
‘was the wrong decision, and I should
have given up while I was behind, as,
due to my dehydrated state, I got sick
before I even left the dorm. I marched
on to chem with my pink hair, arms
covered in marker, and proceeded on
leaving the room twice to evacuate my
stomach. As if this wasn’t embarrass-
ing enough, I also needed to go to the
library to write the last 500 words for
my Scottish history paper. I had brought
water and an apple to attempt to ease
my throbbing head and turning stom-
ach. A few hundred words in, I decided
to nibble my apple. This was the worst
decision ofa long list of bad decisions.
Hardly had I swallowed the ﬁrst bite of
apple when my stomach rebelled, in-
spiring me to run to the bathroom that
was just around the comer. As luck

would have it, the janitors had decided
that this was the optimal time to clean,
and therefore, just as I was rounding the
corner, they locked the door. I looked
at the man sealing my fate and begged
him to open the door. He looked back
at me and shook his head. I looked him
square in the eyes... andthen vomited
in the trash can that he had emptied just
moments before. I then sprinted away in

disgust, embarrassment, but with a cer-
tain sense of pride. That pride soon van-
ished when one of my Scottish friends
came up to me and told me that one of
her friends had posted on his Facebook
that ‘Some American with pink hair had
just chundered in the library.’ Guilty as
charged.”

CB: Harper, what is the most roman-
tic thing you have ever_done for a girl?

“I’m truly not a very romantic per-
son, but I deﬁnitely know how to treat a

 

lady with respect. I guess one instance
would be when I took this girl with me
to play golflast summer. It was a really
nice evening spent walking 9 holes un-
til dusk, ending with a nice steak dinner
in the clubhouse. Afterwards we went
out and had an awesome night with the
rest of our friends. It wasn’t a special
night by any means, but we
both ended up having a blast.”

 

CB: Jay, if you were to be featured
on a reality TV show, what would it be?

“lfl were to be featured on a real-
ity TV show, it would be called ‘Living
With Animals.’ Every season I would
live with a different species of animal
in the wild. The ﬁrst season would be
called ‘Living With Animals: Hangin’
with the Monkeys.’ I would live with

Vacation all I ever wanted!

ColumnistAli Greenberg describes the process that led to her spending her
Spring Break at home walking dogs I

By All Greenberg
COLU M N I ST

Meet ./ayi Slfexfahelzgi’

a group of monkeys. We would play,
eat and talk. Conflicts would deﬁnitely
arise. Drama would ensue. Friendships
would be made. Popular seasons would
include: Runnin’ with the Herd, Hun-
tin’ with the Pride, and Howlin’ with
the pack.”

CB: Sarah, if you could haveany
superpower, what would it be?

“If I could have a superpower,
I would want the power of reading
minds, then I’d know what my friends,
guys and teachers all really thought of
me! It would also make buying gifts
easier.”

 

ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

HOLLY SUTHERS
IAYNA JOHNS
SAMUEL GILLERAN
SARAH GORMAN
STAFF WRITERS DOUG BEALL
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE

ALI GREENBERG
EMILY MOSH
MEGAN SHAW
BROOKS SIMMONS
SAGE UM

IULIANNA SATTERLY
STEELE BURROW

DESIGN EDITOR‘
HEAD PHOTOGRAPHER

BUSINESS MANAGERS ROB GEORGE
- MATT GOSSETT
DISTRIBUTION STAEF KELLY LANE

JOE MORAVEC
ZABRIAWN SMITH-
EVAN SHARBER
DAVE WILSON

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of
THE RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully,
and thoroughly report news affecting the
Washington and Lee co_mmunity for students,
faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal is to look
deeper into news affecting campus life and hold
leaders accountable.’ Through our reporting,
we aspire to spark discussionsrthat lead to
discovering information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RIN'G-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI A
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (5‘4o) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

v crazy college trips, but I gen-

While most of us will be packing our
bags and heading south to Gulf Shores for
a week of sun, sand, and. . .soda, not every-
one will be partaking in the stereotypical
college spring break this year.

While I am totally in support ofthis rite
of passage, it will be at least another year
till I subject myselfto sea lice and an I.V.
of strawberry daiquiris.

Instead I will be spending my break
with family, and it’s going to be awesome!
At least I keep telling myself

educational expenses.

So I managed to get my name on a free
10-day trip to Israel in December, and then
I convinced my dad to send me to stay with
family for Feb Break in New York. But
with my Spring Break fast approaching, I
didn’t know what I was going to do.

Despite being broke, I put my name
down for my sorority’s trip to Ft. Morgan.
However, immediately after sending the
email I remembered three things.

that.
I sometimes miss out on

erally have good reasons. It all
started with senior year beach
week. Somehow spending it

Who am I kidding? I just charged a
slice of pizza at Franks. I cant aﬂord
Spring Break.

In 3 Myrtle B€8Cl'l IT10'E€l and  

drinking warm Natty was not
a very appealing proposal.

Instead, my cousin and fellow graduate
and I drove down to Florida for a “classy”
week at her family’s condo. Since the mean
age on the island is around 65, it was a wild
time to say the least.

Then came freshman year, and I was so
excited for my ﬁrst college spring break
with my sorority. Until I realized I was
broke from my February Break trip to
South America and my dad told me I had
to come home to walk the dogs in the after-
noons. It was as pathetic as it sounds.

Then I spent the summer in New York,
where I worked as an unpaid intern in a
fashion show room. Due to this, I entered
sophomore year broker than I left it and my
dad was no longer going to count my Sun-
day night Tong Dynasty dinners as cultural

I. Who am I kidding? Ijust charged

a slice of pizza at Franks. I can’t afford,

Spring Break.

2. Our entire school will be there. This
is not a vacation. That is a ﬁeld trip.

And most importantly,

3. There is a reason I have never been
to Alabama.

But before I get another letter to the edi-
tor, the actual most important reason is that
my brother is joining the Peace Corps and
leaves for the former U.S.S.R. at the end
ofour Spring Break. (You don’t know how
lucky you are, boy!)

So more than anything, I realized I
wanted to spend time with my family. I
removed my name from the list, and I im-
mediately tried to organize some sort of
family vacation, a la Chevy Chase.

That’s when I remembered my family
is about as dysﬁinctional as the Aristocrats,
and this made planning a trip a lot more
difﬁcult than it sounds. (That joke was
disgusting, but I doubt anyone even under-
stood it.)

_Seeing as we are city folk, the idea of
renting a quaint cabin did not appeal to my
brother.

Instead, he suggested a destination
where we could all do our own thing during
the day and reconvene for dinner.

So where was this riveting place where
we would all be able to occupy and enter-
tain ourselves for three days?

Baltimore. I kid you not. That was his
genius suggestion. I cannot even make a
joke about how ridiculous that is.

I think we can all agree that Baltimore
was not happening. So, I kicked my broth-
er out of my family vacation and for three
days I became set on a father-daughter get-
away to an Ashram. How is that for Eat,
Pray, Love? Get at me, Julia Roberts.

But then my dad said he wanted to go
somewhere nicer, I remembered that I hat-
ed yoga, and now we have about two weeks
with nothing to do but walk the dog.

I may try again for my spring break ad-
venture next year, but for now I realized
that eating Chinese take out and watching
a marathon of Curb Your Enthusiasm with
my brother and my dad and my dogs is all I
really want. Baltimore, Gulf Shores and the
Yogaville Satchidananda Ashram can wait.

 

  $100 Gift Card at Kroger   ~

Enter to Win
@ GeneralsRetreat
on Facebook or follow us  
on Twitter @GenRetreat '

 

GENERALS’
  RETREAT  

APARTMENTS

 
    

  
 

Ask us about our
INCREDIBLE
referral program and   I

save$$$$!

 

540-464-3673

 

Bmc

 - THE BUILDIN MANAGEMENT Ga
. . I

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY,

 

rts&|ife

 

 

  George and Bobfocus of series

Spring speaker series kicks off with speech on the lives of George Washington and Robert E. Lee as military leaders

Press Release
’W&L COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE

The Lee Family Digital Archive and
_.the Lee Chapel and Museum are hosting
; the third biannual 2011 Washington and
Lee University Spring Speaker Series
at the Lee Chapel on three consecutive
Sunday afternoons at 2 p.m., which be-
-gan yesterday, April 3.
,_ The series, entitled, “Preparation
‘for War, Preparation for Life,” will ex-
plore the lives of George Washington
, and Robert E. Lee. The series will focus
on how prepared Washington and Lee
were to take command when they went
to war.

A book signing was held from 1-1 :45
p.m. in the Lee Chapel Museum on April
3, and another will be held on April 17
for the days’ respective speakers. All
lectures are free and open to the public.
' . The series opened with William M.

Calhoun, professor emeritus of National ’

Security Affairs at the Naval War Col-
lege in Newport, R.I., who spoke on
“George Washington: Preparedness
Through Change,” and William C. Da-
vis, professor of history and director
of programs for the Virginia Center
for Civil War Studies at Virginia Tech,
whose lecture was titled “Lee and the
Road to.Command.”

Calhoun was on the faculty of the

Naval War College for over 22 years

both as an active duty ofﬁcer and as a ci-
vilian professor. He served seven years
as the academic dean and also as act-
ing provost. He teaches a self-authored
elective course titled “George Washing-
ton, Indispensable Man or Indecipher-
able Monument.”

Calhoun’s many publications include
“Washington at Newburgh” (2005),
numerous articles, opinion pieces and
book reviews concerning George Wash-
ington. He is a regular contributor to the
“Naval War College Review.”

Davis spent 20 years in editorial
management in the magazine and book
publishing industry and is now a writer
and consultant. He was historical con-
sultant for several television and ﬁlm
productions including “George Wash-
ington” and “The Blue and the Grey.”

Davis is the author or editor of more
than 50 books about the Civil War and
Southern history, as well as numerous
documentaries and screenplays. He is
the only three-time winner of the Jeffer-
son Davis Award given for book-length
works in Confederate history. His “Jef-
ferson Davis: The Man and His Hour”
(1996) is considered the best ever writ-
ten Ion the Confederate president. His
most recent book is “Breckinridge:
Statesman, Soldier, Symbol” (2010).

On April 10, Dennis J. Pogue, asso-
ciate director for preservation at Histor-
ic Mount Vernon, will speak on “Master
of Mount Vernon: George Washington’s
Preparation for Building a Nation,” and
Keith E. Gibson, executive director
of museum operations at the Virginia
Military Institute, whose lecture title is
“Robert E. Lee, Man of Destiny?”

Pogue is a researcher, archaeologist

and authority on all aspects of George
Washington’s life at Mount Vernon.
While chief archaeologist at‘Mount Ver-
non, he conducted extensive research in
farm and slave" life there, and continues
to be active as a consultant on impor-
tant archaeological digs of the Colonial
American time period.

Pogue has written extensively on
George Washington and Mount Ver-
non and is currently working on a book
about George Washington’s grist mill
and distillery at Mount Vernon. Articles
he has written include “The Domes-
tic Architecture of Slavery at George
Washington’s Mount Vernon” in Win-
terthur Portfolio (Volume 37, 2002) and
“George Washington and the Politics of
Slavery” (2003).

Gibson, also architectural historian
for VMI, was the founding director of

the McBride Museum at the New Mexi- .

co Military Institute in 1984. Asidirector

-of museums operation at VMI, he is re-

sponsible for the operation and develop-
ment of the VMI Museum and the New
Market Battleﬁeld State Historical Park.

Gibson worked as a consultant on
several documentary ﬁlms, made for
television ﬁlms and feature ﬁlms in-
cluding God and Generals (2001/2),
Field of Lost Shoes (2000/1-—winner
of two PBS Emmys) and Sommersby
(1992). He has written numerous book
reviews and articles on the Civil War era
and VMI. _

The series concludes on April 17
with Edward G. Lengel, American mili-
tary historian and director of the George
Washington Papers at the University
of Virginia who_ will speak on “George
Washington: Man and Myth,” and R.
David Cox, former rector of the R. E.
Lee Memorial Episcopal Church in Lex-
ington, speaking on “Soul in Marble.”

In addition to editing volumes in
the revolutionary War Series of “The
Papers of George Washington,” Lengel
has written two well-received books
on'America’s first president: “General
George Washington: A Military Life”
(2005) and “This Glorious Struggle:
George Washington’s Revolutionary
War Letters” (2007). Lengel’s newest

 

book on George Washington is “In-
venting George Washington: America’s
Founder, in Myth and Memory” (2011).
Other books Lengel has written in-
clude “The Irish through British Eyes:
Perceptions of Ireland in the Famine
Era” (2002); “World War I Memories:
An Annotated Bibliography of Personal
Accounts Published in English Since
1919” (2004); and “To Conquer Hell:
The Meuse-Argonne, 19 l 8” (2008).
Cox holds a Ph.D. in ministry from
the Graduate Theological . In 2007, he
led a study on Robert E. Lee at Kendal
College for Life-Long Learning, “Soul
in Marble: The Faith of Robert E. Lee,”
in which he closely explored how Lee’s
faith came to maturity during his years
of marriage, fatherhood and’-’ military
service. Cox currently is writing a book
about Robert E. Lee’s religious faith.
He is the author of “Priesthood in
a New Millennium: Toward an Under-
standing of Anglican Presbyterate in the
Twenty-First Century” (2004), which
provides a thorough overview_of An-
glican thinking on ecclesiology and it’s
relation to ordained ministry in the con-
temporary world.
For more information, visit http://
leearchive.wlu/ or call 540-460-4798.

I ‘ I I . . ‘
Monday K ‘Wednesday
Phi Kappa Psi A Athletic Staff
. . versus, versus
Pi Kappa Alpha Phi Delta Theta
I Phi Kappa Psi 3 Sigma Chi
versus versus’
Law School Beta Theta Pi
Athletic Staff Chicago Bulls
versus versus‘
Chi Psi Pi Kappa Phi 3
Sigma Chi Kappa Alpha A Team .
‘ versus 1 , versus
Phi Delta Theta 2 .Pi Kappa Phi 2
Chicago Bulls ' Kappa Alpha B
versus ’ versus
Phi Delta Theta 1 Pi Kappa Phi 1
Kappa Alpha A Team ’ _ . y - KA Goon Squad
versus . . versus
Beta Theta Pi

v Sigma Phi Epsilon

APRIL 4,2011

 

 

MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2011

‘1 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

sports

= Sorry, but Tartan is just not our style

W&L women defeated the Carnegie Mellon Tartans (apparently this is a type of dog) on Saturda, aided by strong singles play

By Brooks Simmons
STAFF WRITER

Fans lined the railings of the view-
ing deck at Duchossois Tennis Center
to cheer on Washington and Lee’s

erals alive, defeating Carnegie Mellon’s
Jennifer Chul and Alexander Tapak 8-3.

their ﬁrst names, to break their four-

game losing streak and provide some
motivation for the team.

women’s tennis team as they faced
Carnegie Mellon on Saturday.

The Generals fell to the Ti-
tans 2-l during doubles, but came
back to win ﬁve of the six singles
matches. The Generals topped
Carnegie Mellon 6-3 overall.

The match was moved to the
indoor courts after scattered show-
ers soaked the courts minutes be-
fore play was supposed to begin.

It was a rough start for the Gen-
erals, as they dropped two out of
the three doubles matches. The
number 2 combo of Jen Snyder and El-
len Yeatman managed to keep the Gen-

“[She] was on a mission Saturday. She
had a formal to get to so she got on the
court and smanged it to a 6-0, 6-0 vic-

tory! ”

ELLEN YEATMAN; tennis player

The win caused team “Jellen,” the nick-
name given to the duo that combines

“It felt really great. I
think our excitement was
contagious and enabled the
team to then win ﬁve out
of the six of our singles
matches to secure a solid
6-3” win,” Yeatman said of
their win.

The Generals fought
back during the singles por-
tion of the contest to secure
a victory over their no. 9‘
seeded rivals. Three of the
six singles matches entered
into a third set, causing uncertainty for

the team.

However, all three girls were able to
pull out the win in their matches.

The third—seeded junior Jen Snyder
was the first General to leave the court
with a victory. She effortlessly crushed
her opponent 6-0, 6-0 in record time.

Yeatman said of the contest, “Jen
was on a mission Saturday. She had a
formal to get to so she got on the court
and smanged it to a 6-0, 6-0 victory!

Catherine Reed also easily defeated
her opponent 6-2, 6-0, while Yeatman,
the number one seed, fell to Lauren
Chen by the same score.

The overall win over the Tartans al-
lowed the Generals to end a three-match
losing streak as they head into the end of.
their regular season.

“Most of all, it felt great to ﬁnally

play on our home courts because we had
been travelling for the past four week-
ends,” Yeatman said. “The whole team,
all 18 of us, were able to be there and we
bonded together to take a much needed
win by being each others’ number one
fan.

The women currently post a 13-6
season record, including a perfect 8-0

ODAC record which puts them on top '

of the, conference.

The Generals will hit the court again
on Wednesday where they face Hollins
for their ﬁnal ODAC regular-season
match. Play will begin at 6 p.m.

\ICU fansgreet Ramson retum from toumament

Basketball team met with cheers during its homecoming to Richmond, aﬁer falling 8th-seeded Butler Bulldogs, 70-62, Sat. night

By Dena Potter
ASSOCIATED PRESS, 2011

RICHMOND, Va. (AP) — About
100 fans welcomed the VCU men’s
basketball team back to Richmond Sun-
day after its Final Four loss to Butler
the night before, ending an unlikely but
magical run in the national tournament.

Fans chanted “VCU, VCU,’-’ as the
team arrived around 3:30 p.m. at the
campus’s Siegel Center near downtown
by police escort. The cheers quickly
turned to “We want Shaka,” referring
to coach Shaka Smart, who ﬂashed a
humble smile as he exited the bus before
the team.

The Virginia Commonwealth Uni-
versity coach and players took their
time going down the line giving high-
ﬁves, hugs and autographs to waiting
fans; who snapped pictures with their
cell phones and cameras.

em 2 aemamz   A A

PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN Tov CAFE
Located at

LEE lll® TRAVEL PLAZA

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu
‘ Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EATBuffets.'

Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5pm-10pm 5

‘ Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-10pm ‘
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm

Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 11pm—2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am—11am
Daily Hot Country Bar 12Noon —10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 10:30am—10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!
I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 North Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA
540-463-3478 '

Great food & a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

Gabby Brophy, 10, beamed as most
of the team signed her gold, blow-up
spirit stick.

“It was awesome,” she said after
point guard sensation Joey Rodriguez
signed his name.

Gabby and her 6-year-old sister
Sidney had decorated their house with
streamers and balloons to watch Satur-
day night’s game, which ended in a 70-
62 loss for VCU. She said she hopes to
play women’s basketball for the school

when she goes to college.
“I really admire the team,” she said.
Rodriguez said the Richmond

school’s run from a buy-in bid to the na-
tional semiﬁnal was a great experience,
and the fan support was much appreci-
ated.

“It means a lot after a loss to have

   
   

O[2[2OI1€I1lZ

Eastern
Mennonite

Bridgewater
Randolph-

Macon

Randolph-
Macon

 

A i 5‘ liDOl(f0_l‘ menu at www.nikosgrill-cafe.coiri' _ i_ H

 

everybody here,” he said. “It was a great
four years.”

Christina Willis, a senior homeland
security major from Hatteras, N.C.,
showed up with some friends to sup-
port the team. Many of her friends from
home didn’t even know where she went
to college, but she said the team’s run
changed all that.

“They made history, and we just
want to show them the love,” she said

VCU fans stood behind their team
when the national pundits questioned
whether they should have made it into
the tournament. The Rams went on to
beat powerhouse programs such as Kan-
sas and Florida State.

A question painted on a window
across the street from where the fans
gathered Sunday summed up the team’s

baseball

date result
03/29 W 4-2
04/01 W10-5
04/'02 L 8-14
04/02 W 8-6

~¢f¢1< Spécialtlss
 erican -Cuisin‘

 "SERVING

0,; ifuésday-Thursday: 7AM -    ‘V
A friday and Saturday: 7AM - torn if 1

 Sunday: 7AM - 3PM
‘A Closed Mondays .

' a

  and Dinner Specilalsili   7 A 

ffjﬂarry Out Available = 
Go Greek at Niko"’is!i .

167 South Main Street, is if ‘ 0

Lexington, VA
Phone: 540.464.9499
Fax: 540.464.1226

_ eakfast~ Lunch~   -.0 f: V. A
-(B1f'.eakfast served all J

run in the tournament and the sentiment
of fans: “Who says we don’t belong?”

Patrick Flores, a 2007 graduate, said
he and a group of friends wanted to be
there Sunday to show the team they sup-
ported them until the end. Flores said he
often went to the games, but the school’s
time in the national spotlight has brought
greater pride to the community.

“There’s a lot more pride on cam-
pus, throughout the city of Richmond,
probably in the state of Virginia just for
VCU,” he said.

Joanna Acosta, a 21-year-old biol-
ogy major from Virginia Beach, said she
didn’t want the team to think fans de-
serted them just because they didn’t win
the national championship. .

“We don’t just love them because
they made it to the Final Four. We still

A I '
  tennis

  

love them,” she said. “Their fans are still
supporting them no matter what. We’ve
always got their back.”

Jamie Skeen, who scored 27 points
in the loss to Butler, said the welcome
capped off a great season.

I' l"l

opponent date result
Roanoke 03/29 W 9-0
Carnegie‘ 04/02 L 3_6
Mellon

 
 

   

It's

 

Have you stopped by
Career Services
for help with:
Résumés
Cover letters
Practice interviews.

 Career Services

 

 and the season’s over!”

 

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI '

MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2011

sports

 

ondeck

   

         
 
 

Mon Tues Wan Tiiuns FRI SAT

 
 

Baseball
5:00pm
, at '

Men 5 Roanoke:

Lacrosse 7:00pm

Women's ‘'5

Lacrosse 4:30pm

Men’s

Tennis

Women's ' ‘'5

Hollins 

Tennis emopm /

‘ U of

Golf Penn

Invite
Rh" ODA(_: ODAC
ng champion champion-
ships ships

in the numbers
50

Washington and Lee’s head women’s lacrosse coach
Brooke Diamond notched this win after her team disman-

tled Sweet Briar 21-0 at home last ‘Wednesday.

6 5
This percentage of 138 NBA players voted Orlando Magic
coach Stan Van Gundy the most annoying coach in the
league, according to a‘ recent Sl.com poll. Second place was
a’ tie, as Phil Jackson and Scott Skiles both received 7 per-

cent of the participating players’ votes each.

50

According to an ESPN.com poll, the country is split as this
percentage of voters think that 8th-seeded Butler will win
the NCAA title for men’s basketball, while the same percent-
age also thinks that 3rd-seeded Uconn will win it. Voters are

not divided on who they want to win, though. Over 63%, and

«

most of the states outside New England hope that Butler

comes out on top.

-""+"”—"':"""'¥
soapbox

‘‘I didn’t say I ’m the fastest guy on the team,
-just the best athlete  and best ‘looking. ”

--AubreyHul'l', dlecuselnghlseblllﬂeelnleltileld and Infmnt
ofa mlnor,efl1erhlu:lnghlsfourlh hornerun lntlvegameenhe
laleetcomlnglnes-4loeel:o1heOeldandA',s.

“I went tothe regular academy. lgot Maced,
had to go through the gas house, got shot
with the Taser twice. Idid everything they
did. So they know that I am serious  When
I retire, I am going to take a,weel<, take

two weeks off. Somebody is going to have
to hire me.Some city, some county, some
federal position is going to have to hire
Shaquille O’Neal and he is qualiﬁed. And it
is proven. Look it up.” '

--BeekelhellelarSliaqullle0'Neelonbeoomlngaeherlfl'l '
eflierherellreefromtheeport.

“It’s Opening Day, and here's the -ﬁrst pitch .

--Thls Ilne, exclaimed byan announcer In a Femlly Guy
epleode, played overthe NewYorkMeI3sIadIum aethe
teemwelked ofrtlieneldaflieraeeeeori-openings-2 lose
to the Honda Merllns. In theehow, slewle ls complelnlng
aboutHeIloween,eqyln¢ltle'a blaerletdownthan belnga
Mele1'an.'The nexteceneehovnsliewleeta Melsnmeas
1tiearr|e'sannouncereq5s1tIeIlne. Mebofllclalsvnre not
happyaboutthe Incident, andthepereon reepornlbleforlt
will be punished, aocoidlngtnfoxsporlscom.

By Doug Beall
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team bounced back from last Tuesday’s heart-
breaking loss to Middlebury with a dominat-
ing win over Randolph College on..Saturday.
The Generals beat the'Wildcats by a convinc-
ing 13-4 score, building on their perfect con-
ference record.

The Generals were led on offense by se-
nior attackman Spence Daw, whose hat trick
brought his season total to a team-high 18
goals. He also had one assist, while fellow
attackmen Sam Mott (two goals) and Jack
Switala (two assists) contributed to the Gen-
erals’ productivity.

The rest of the W&L scoring was very
spread out, as eight players combined for the

rest of the eight goals. Four goalies for the

Generals saw action, with a combined four
saves and four goals against.
The win came on the heels of a 6-5 loss
to 7th ranked Middlebury on Tuesday night.
In that game, the Generals got off to a

5-3 lead early in the second quarter after two
goals by Switala, and one goal each by Daw
and sophomore Mac Means, as well as mid-
ﬁelder and captain Drew Koeneman.

However, they were held scoreless the en-
tire second half and Middlebury took the lead
with just over six minutes left.

Despite the ﬁnal score, senior Goalie Ja-
son Lumpkin had a stellar day in the goal,
notching 14 saves as the Panthers outshot the
Generals 42-26.

The biggest loss in the game was that of
sophomore defenseman Joe LaSala, who suf-
fered a knee injury in the ﬁrst quarter. Juniors
Jack Hurley and Jason Harden will be expect-
ed to step up in his absence for future games.

“We lost an important player when Joe
went down,” said fellow defenseman Austin
Wemecke. “We are all hoping that his recov-
ery goes well and we can see him back out
there on the field with us.”

The loss broke the General’s four game

WWW.GENERALSSPORTS.COM

%,igrRandolph

Men 3 lacrosse continues its dominance over conference foes, moves to 4-0 in ODA Cs

winning streak, and the team came back to
Lexington looking to start another run as four
of their last ﬁve games are against ODAC
teams. They started off well against Ran-
dolph, a win that brings their ODAC record
to a conference best 4-0.

“Although the Middlebury game would
have been a great win for the program, win-
ning the ODAC is the key for the team to get
into the NCAA tournament,’.’ said captain Ge-
rard Savarese. “The win against Randolph is
a step in the right direction.”

The next step for the Generals is against
ODAC rival Roanoke College in Salem on
Wednesday night in what may be the most
important game of the year.

“The only thing standing between us and
the number one seed in the ODAC tourna-
ment is the Maroons,” said junior attackmen
Scott Meehan, “and if they think we’re going
to roll over and die, they have another think

Women continue conference dominance

By Megan Shaw

STAFF WRITER

An incredibly successful week at home for

the Washington and Lee University women’s

lacrosse team leaves them leading the confer-
ence with a perfect '4-0 ODAC record.
Wednesday’s game against Sweet Briar
College was not only marked by head coach
Brooke Diamond’s 50th career victory, but
also celebrated as a shut-out as the Gener-
als controlled the entire game all the way to a

21-0 ﬁnal score.

Approaching the close of her fourth sea-
son as the Generals’ head coach, Diamond is
now 5l-l7 overall and an amazing 27-1 in
ODAC play.

From the minute the clock started, the
Generals immediately dominated the Sweet
Briar Vixens.

F irst-year attackers Katie Hagen, Alex Van
Horn, Kelsey Cotter and Greta Witter took

the goal by storm, all scoring within the ﬁrst
l5 minutes. After an assist, sophomore Ash-g

ley Barnes found the net without fail, making
the score 14-0 with 5 minutes remaining in
the ﬁrst period. .

‘ With only one attempted shot from the
Vixens, senior goal keeper Katharine Farrar
was sure to make the save to keep the ﬁrst
period a shutout.

Though the ﬁnal period was not as goal
heavy, the Generals were more than able to
continue controlling the game. Margaret
Klein, another ﬁrst-year, had already scored
four times in the ﬁrs_t period and continued
her career-best play with two assists in the
ﬁnal period.

This victory was a great way for the
younger players to show their talent, proving
to fans the effect that the ﬁrst-years will have
in years to come.

A 19-10 win on Saturday against Virginia
Wesleyan added to the Generals’ ODAC re-
cord. Their possession ofthe game was not as

 

«.1

Lax records a second 21-0 win, outscoring ODAC opponents 78-20 this season

quick as their victory earlier in the week, and
the teams were battling as the minutes passed
in the ﬁrst period.

Both the Generals and the Virginia Wes-
leyan Marlins fought to keep up with each
other, but it was senior attackers Emmy Mat-
thews and Wilton Megargel who seemed to
push their team and keep control of the game
by each contributing several goals and assists.

After ﬁve uncontested goals, Junior Mad-
die McKaig ﬁnished the ﬁrst period by mak-
ing an unassisted goal with a second remain-
ing to put W&L ahead l0-4. ‘

Megargel opened the second period with a
goal off of a free position shot, but the Mar-
lins came back to score twice within the next
ﬁve minutes. They continued to try to gain
some kind of lead on the Generals, but with
the help of Farrar and her defense, it was im-
possible.

Though Virginia Wesleyan managed to
 score ﬁve goals throughout the ﬁnal
 period, players like Van Horn and
‘‘ Klein attacked the goal to ﬁnish the
game with a ﬁnal score of 19-10.

The No. 14 Generals will play
Bridgewater College on Wednesday at
home, and Farrar is hoping for another
focused victory.

“It will be important for us to stick
 to the fundamentals for the rest of our
' season so that we can ensure the num-
 ber one spot in the ODAC,” she said.
Along with the rest of the W&L com-
munity, Farrar said she has a ton of
conﬁdence in her team.

“I think we are on the right track to
becoming a strong competitor in the
', NCAA tournament later in the spring.”

   

5

W

 

