 

    §tockton serves sobersass.

‘V.

OPINIONS / page 3

W&L and VMI work together to

  help across borders. _
Students collaborate on engineering

project to help bring water to Pampoyo,

Bolivia. NEwS/ pagé 2

MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2 0 11

WASHINGTON AND

".531: UNIVEZRSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

B1‘ THE STUDENTS AMI] FOR THE STLITTEIITS Sl|lEE1ﬂ!?'

VOLUME CXIV, NUMBER 16

Secrets 
exposed

Post-Secret creator speaks
at W&L ,

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

Frank Warren, the founder ofthe weekly blog Post-
Secret.com and the author of ﬁve best-selling books,
shared his perspectives on life and secrets, and what he
has learned about the two, during his presentation in
Stackhouse Theater last Tuesday.

“I like how [the PostSecret project] demonstrates
the transformative power secrets have over us, and the
power that we also have over them,” Warren said dur-
ing an interview before his presentation.

The idea behind the project is simple: a person anon-
ymously writes down his or her secret, often along with
a related picture, and sends it to Warren. He reads every
card sent to him and, along with a team of other people,
selects 20 every week to post online and hundreds more
to put into books.

Warren said the idea came ‘out of his personal his-
tory. He grew up in a family that always kept secrets,
secrets that eventually drove his family apart. Warren
said his father and brother have not spoken to his moth-
er in years.

As an adult, Warren worked for Hopeline, an or-
ganization that helps with suicide prevention. While
there, he said he noticed that every person he met had a
rich interior life: inside jokes, taboo thoughts, hopeful
wishes. These experiences shaped him and spiked his
interest in the thoughts, emotions and experiences of
other people.

Warren said he’s always been fascinated by secrets,
but in 2004 he had a “crazy idea.”

He began by handing out 3,000 one-sided postcards
on the streets of Washington DC with his address al-
ready written "on them, encouraging people to write
their secrets down and mail them to him.

Warren said the most common response he got was
“I don’t have any secrets.” The results he gets from the
project suggest otherwise.

For the ﬁrst three months, the secrets slowly trickled
in, almost completely from the DC area. But when he
launched the online blog, the project’s popularity took
off. Warren estimates that he receives over 1,000 se-
crets every week from around the world.

“It just shows that we all have secrets...There’s not

ren said in an interview. “It was shocking to really un-
derstand how large the project was getting, the reach it
was getting.”

Warren said that while the project started as more
of a “creative prank,” it became a “joumey to discover
parts ofmy own life. I’ve been hiding from secrets, I’ve
been keeping [them] from myself.”

According to Warren, the most common secret is “I
pee in the shower.” '

The second most common is a little deeper: “I have
so many secrets; all I want is to ﬁnd that one person to
share them allwith.”

According to Warren, people are looking for that
one other person they can be themselves around.

Warren said he really saw the power of a secret in an
e-mail he received commenting on other secrets. The
original secret showed a broken door, and read that the
person’s mother had broken the door so she could get
into his room to continue beating him. Following that
secret, Warren said that pictures of broken doors, bro-
ken for the same reason, came ﬂooding in.

“Seeing all those pictures of broken doors; it didn’t
depress me,” the e-mail said. “It made me feel con-
nected.”

The e-mailer continued to say that he had blocked
out that part of his childhood, refusing to acknowledge
it.

With this information, Warren had an epiphany. “For
the ﬁrst time I realized there are two kinds of secrets:
the secrets we keep from others, and the secrets we
keep from ourselves.” '

“We keep secrets, but secrets also keep us,” he said.
“They could be undermining our relationships with
other people.”

One result of the project is the inside-look into the
world’s population. Warren said that most people, es-
pecially reporters, ask if many secrets are about crimes
that people have committed, believing that to be the
world’s biggest problem. But Warren said very few

many secrets are about loneliness, self-harm, eating dis-
orders and suicide. The project has become a window
into the darkest places of humanity’s heart, a way of
understanding the most universal parts of our lives.

Warren emphasized to Tuesday’s audience, just as
he does to all of his audiences, the importance of em-
bracing the good and bad in life equally and everything
that can be learned from those moments.

“If you can go through the light and the dark [of
life], at the end, you’ll have a story, one of healing and
redemption?’ ‘

Election breakdown

Washington and Lee students to elect new representatives this week A

By Kelsy Mccraw
STAFF WRITER

Twenty-nine students

government Wednesday.

will compete for
open spots in Washington and Lee student

Wells was recently appointed by the cur-
rent EC when class of 2012 representative
Luke Andersen had to step down for personal

  Candidates

 

In anticipation of upcoming class represen-
tative elections, an information session was
held Thursday for prospective candidates.

EC President Scott Centorino said at least

reasons. Wells, who also serves as treasurer of
the Interfraternity Council, says he wants to

Class of 2014

twice as many students turned out for this
year’s information session as last year.

“We did a lot more recruiting and advertis~ EC.
ing for the meeting this year,” Centorino said.

“(President-elect) Scott McClintock sent
out emails to the student body, and we tried
to individually recruit students we thought
would be good for thejob,” he said.

Centorino said the turnout seemed to be
skewed toward the younger students, but
noted that this was the norm for most elec-
tions. He said that there are typically around
four students running for thejunior and senior
classes and more than 10 for the freshman and

sophomore elections.

No incumbents are running for the two se-
nior, two junior and two sophomore represen-
tative spots. The SJC will have no incumbent
runners for the junior representative spot.

This is the second round of elections for
the student body.‘

Last week, students elected SJC and EC of-
ficers for the 201 1-12 school year.

Scott McClintock beat out Austin Branstet-
ter for the president ofthe EC. Both candidates
had served as class representatives on the EC
since their sophomore years. McClintock also
served as secretary this past year.

Branstetter said he will not run for one of
the two class of 2012 representative spots. He
said he now wants to focus his time and ef-
forts on the Outing Club as key staff for pad-

focus his time and efforts on fraternity issues. EC Representative
Jack Apgar, ’l3, landed the position as vice Nathaniel 
president ofthe EC after running unopposed. And Ogburn
This will be his second year serving on the lg/'pLt_an Kell _
ristian artme
Fellow class of 2013 representative Steele Maria Bosh"/0/C00“
Burrow will not be seeking re-election. Bur- Gordon Glober
row plans to study abroad in France in the fall Shelby Barada
, , Caleb Walker
and, as such, cannot serve on the EC.‘ Chris Ives
The sole class of 2014 representative Trey Twp Cole
_ Hatcher was elected secretary of the EC. Peter. Partee
Hatcher will be the youngest secretary to the , _
EC in at least four years. SJC Representative
Junior Matt Simpson defeated fellow ju- Amanda Newton
nior Tim McAleenan for the chair of the SJC Lorraine Simonis
last week. Simpson previously served as the L€3CLuth€_7"
secretary of the SJC. McAleenan served as Todd Smllth/'Sch0enwalde7'
class of 2012 justice last year. He is now run- John. Paul Beau
ning for EC representative. Justln Coppola
Eric Perkins, ’ l 3, will serve as secretary of
the SJC. Perkins was previously the class of classiof 
2013 justice. EC Representative
Since many current justices and represen- Har7'i307§, Cker I .
tatives have chosen not to run, next year's EC Ben Rullel
and SJC will have several new faces. Bartpn
In addition to the new first-year law and Rac e Warnck
. _ . John She ard
undergraduate representatives that will be Megan S aw
elected next year, only 4 of l 3 students on the .
EC will have prior experience serving their '  Representative
Classmateﬁ Mary Elizabeth Bush
The SJC will have at least four brand-new Will Salley

members.

A complete list of candidates follows. Stu-
dents can see each candidate’s platform on the
elections tab on Sakai. ‘

EC Representative

really a language or a geographic barrier to that,” War- ~

of the secrets he receives are about crimes, but many, ‘

dling.

“I (plan on applying) for some of the ap-
pointed positions to stay involved in the stu-

dent government,” he said.

The other class of 2012 representative,
John Wells, said he is also not running for re-

election.

W&L’s Womenl

Alex Stur es
Tim MCA enan
Melissa Powell

SJ C Representative
Tyler Grant K

Class of 2012

eaders

Student leaders reﬂect on the low percentage of women in W&L student government

Bysage Um
STAFF WRITER

With EC and SJC elections
approaching, the lack of women
in student government has been
thrown into focus.

According to John Ehrhardt,
Chair of the Voting Regulations
Board, there have been at most two
undergraduate women serving on
the EC each year, out of 13 mem-
bers, for the last few years. The
SJC has not had any female repre-
sentatives for the last three years.

Current class of 2013 repre-
sentative Jack Apgar offered one
possible explanation for the lack
of women, “Women may be more
hesitant in running for a position
in an already male—dominated or-
ganization,” Apgar said.

Head Recruitment Counselor
and Panhellenic Council Member
Alexandra Frazier said she thinks
the relationship between women
and student government is a “vi-
cious cycle.”

“There’s no women on the
committees, which makes it difﬁ-
cult for other women to consider
running, and when they don’t run,
there’s no women on the commit-
tees,” Frazier said.

Sophomore Rachel Warrick is
running for class of 2013 repre-
sentative. She said there is a need
for an example of female leader-
ship on the EC and the SJC. By
having someone on the committee
actively representing the Washing-
ton and Lee women, other women
could be motivated to run for po-
sitions in the future, Warrick said.

Justice Mary Elizabeth Bush is
running for junior justice on the
SJC. She said it is strange to see
women under-represented in stu-
dent government because women
hold leadership positions in many
other organizations.

“I have plenty of friends who
have leadership positions on ser-
vice organizations and Mock Con-
vention,” Bush said, “Spreading
the word about the elections is
important. I'think the girls need
more encouragement to consider
running for a position.”

Jackie Smith, the current EC
class of 2011 representative and
the only undergraduate woman on
the EC, said she agrees with Bush
on the need for the extra encour-
agement for women.

“While running for a position
on the EC or the SJC is a personal
choice, I think the women need the
extra push," Smith said. '

Smith said she was pleased
with the interest from women at
the recent information session.

“The desire is there and it was
great to see so many women show-
ing interest,” Smith said. “Its al-
ways difﬁcult to put yourself out
there, especially when it’s not the
popular thing to do.”

Smith said her term on the EC
has been extremely rewarding.
“While the men on the EC are
perfectly capable of performing
their duties, I thought it was very
important to have a woman’s per-
spective.”

She is not the only person who
acknowledges the importance of
having women on these commit-
tees. Apgar said the committee
would really beneﬁt from having
more women. .

Sophomore representative
Steele Burrow also said, “The
EC’s role in student governance is
signiﬁcant and having a woman’s
different perspective would be

extremely helpful in making deci-
sions.”

Although she found the lack
of women in government surpris-
ing, Bush said it’s important that
women not have an unfair advan-
tage just because they are women.

“I want people to vote for me
not just because I’m a girl, but be-
cause I’m just as capable and de-
serving ofthe position as anyone,”

, said Bush.

All candidates will make short
speeches at a candidate forum on
Monday night and the voting will
occur on Sakai between 8 am and
5 pm, during which students cast
two votes for EC candidates and
one vote for SJC candidates. If
needed, a runoff will occur on Fri-
day with a third and ﬁnal runoffon
Monday.

 

UNIVERSITY L,lB.RAi3Y_ ‘ H‘
WASHINGTON &  LJtllv§;:ti‘§:;lW
LEXINGTON. VA 244:6

 

2

 

0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

MAR 3020:!’

MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011

Q .

 

Students bring water to Bolivia  

Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute students work togethe

By Kelly Mae Ross
STAFF WRITER

Students and professors from Wash-
ington and Lee and the Virginia Military
Institute will be travelling to the small
village of Pampoyo, Bolivia, this sum-
mer to help bring clean water to the 70
families in the village.

Junior Dana Frederick met Major
Tim Moore at a lecture last term about
the recent natural disaster in ‘Haiti.
Moore, assistant professor of civil en-
gineering at VMI, told Fredericks about
an organization called Engineers With-
out Borders that works to improve the
health and quality of life of the people
in underprivileged areas of the world
through the construction of engineering
projects. _

According to the Engineers Without
Borders website, the projects that EWB
groups plan and build provide “necessi-
ties such as clean water, power, sanita-
tion’ and education.” Moore is the ‘ad-
viser for the recently established VMI
chapter of Engineers Without Borders,
and he encouraged Dana to get involved.

Fredericks is now the president ofthe
W&L EWB group, which works in col-
laboration with the VMI EWB chapter.
She said that she is excited about EWB
because the group’s work is “beneﬁcial
to both the people ofBolivia and the stu-
dents.”

According to a 2008 report from the
World Health Organization, 3.575 mil-
lion people die every year from water-
related diseases. Clean water is also

needed to irrigate crops.

    
  

   

.'x,.;..¢:...'....—.t.uw"-3' '

Q’roject Task;

ENG
wiTHOUT
geoao

Crop irrigation is a primary concern
for the people of Pampoyo and is the
focus of the VMI and W&L students’
efforts.

The river where the residents of Pam-
poyo get water to irrigate their farmland
has been contaminated by runoff from
old mines located upstream. The stu-
dents, in collaboration with the Blue
Ridge professional chapter of EWB, are
working to design a catchment/pipeline
system that will capture the water from
the river upstream from the mines, and
then divert this clean water through

pipes to the crop ﬁelds of the farmers of A

Pampoyo.

Carrie Wortham, a junior biology
major and president of the VMI EWB
chapter, said that this irrigation proj-
ect could have great and lasting effects
upon the village of Pampoyo.

“A remote, isolated village—you’re
not going to ﬁnd much opportunity
there. So what we’re doing will hope-
ﬁilly encourage the younger generations
to stick around,” she said.

Wortham said the group hopes the
catchment and irrigation system that
they are building will increase/the
amount of arable land available to ,,Pam—
poyan farmers by 400 percent. 

Fredericks said that this increase in
farmland could allow the people of the
village to grow enough food to sustain
themselves and have some cash crops
left over. She said that a major concern
for the area is the lack of work avail-

  

i
INEERS
E RS
USA

able—that younger generations are
moving away from Pampoyo -to seek
work in the nearby city of La Paz. The
increased availability of farmland could
help ensure the longevity of the village
by encouraging its younger members to
stay put.

Along with the difficulties of plan-

ning the catchment and irrigation proj-

ecf for Pampoyo,’ the groups must also
fundraise in order to pay for the tools
and materials that they will need and for
their travel costs. The EWB groups plan
to send two ‘waves of students, profes-
sors and professional engineers from
the Blue Ridge EWB chapter to Bolivia
this summer to work on the catchment
system.

The students must ﬁnd a way to raise
$30,000 before they can leave the coun-
try and break ground on this project.

Another challenge that the chapter
and group are currently facing is recruit-
ment. “We’re working on getting under-
classmen involved,” said Matt Brock,
vice president of VMI EWB chapter. As
of now, the VMI chapter is all juniors
and two sophomores.

The W&L group has generated a
slightly greater" interest amongst young-
er students, as four current sophomores
and four current ﬁrst-year students
showed up to the inaugural meeting of
the group that was held several weeks
ago. All of the students at this ﬁrst
meeting listed some form of physics or
engineering as one of their majors.

Professor Jonathan Erickson, assis-
tant professor of physics and engineer-
ing at W&L and adviser for the W&L
EWB group, said that while it was great
to see such a good turnout of engineers,
he hopes that students with interests
other than engineering will get involved
with the group as well.

“In some ways it’s kind of unfortu-
nate that it has ‘engineers’ in the title.
 Getting the message out that this is a
club not just for engineers but for any-
body who’s interested in these types of
community-service style projects, with
a purview especially towards the inter-
national developing world, that’s just a
challenge, I think, inherent with name
that comes with [the club].”

Those involved with EWB are eager
to see the both chapter and group grow
in terms of size and the range of interests
of their members. In early April, Fred-
ericks will be holding an information
session in which she will present EWB
and the Pampoyo project to some of the
students at W&L interested in poverty
studies.

“We want the poverty people in-
volved big time too,” said Fredericks.

In addtion to benefts the Pampoyo
project will bring to the people of this
small Bolivian village, the impact ofthe
project is already being felt right here in
Lexington.

Moore said he believes the collabora-
tion that has begun to occur between the
VMI EWB chapter and the W&L group

Install catchment to collect spring
water

Bypass contamination

Install 10,000 feet of piping

Increase arable land by 400%

r on engineering project

has the potential to improve the relations
between the two campuses.

“lt bridges gaps that have existed for
years between VMI and W&L,” said
Moore. Members of the chapter and the
group say said that there have been no
problems, other than scheduling con-
ﬁicts, when it comes to the inter-campus

' collaboration. Brock said he thinks it’s

great that W&L students are getting in-
volved with the Pampoyo project and
that he appreciates the different way of
thinking that W&L students have.

“They have a different outlook on
things and that’s really nice. And an-
other thing, it’s just cool to be. able to
talk with somebody that’s not wearing
one of these things, you know,” Brock
said as he pointed at the VMI patch on
his jacket. “It’s a little outside contact
for once.”

Students interested in getting in-
volved with the W&L Engineers With-
out Borders group should email Dana
Fredericks at fredericksdl2@mail.wlu.
edu.

Weeds ‘You

re

 

‘Q

 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

opinions

‘ A dryspell of FD proportions

Opinions Editor Stockton Bullitt tried abstaining from alcohol during Fancy Dress week and documented the results

(I

By Stockton Bullitt
OPINIONS EDITOR

You know those Sundays when you
wake and remind yourself that you nev-
er ever want to drink ever again?

Well, last Sunday. I had a bad one
of those. I woke up from a sleep, but I
didn’t really feel like I had slept at all.
Lifting myself out of bed and walking
over to the bathroom was a chore rare-
ly rivaled in difﬁculty. As I soothingly
massaged my head and stomach simul-
taneously, -I had a nice little conversa-
tion with myself about never drinking
again.

Then it came to me, why not force
myself not to drink again and then. write
a column about it? That way I could
force myself to actually abstain from
drinking for a week, and I could also
provide at least some quality commen-
tary on the age old Washington and Lee
perception that “you can’t have fun at
parties if you aren’t drinking.”

After my hangover died down, this
idea started to take the fruition that
most ideas take on Sundays. See, if you
aren’t'telling yourself“I’m screwed, I’m
screwed, I’m screwed” on Sunday, then
most likely you aren’t worrying about a
test or an essay due the next day. And
most of the time, Sunday actually turns
into the day of hope (again, this is after
the hangover has died down). I person-
ally spent most of Sunday imagining
how productive and wonderful my next
week would be without alcohol.

I was going to start working ahead
more in school. I was going to start call-
ing my family and ask them about how
they were doing more. I was going to hit
the gym more. And the best part about
this upcoming week was that I was now
going to be. much richer thanks to my

lack of beer runs.

Overall, my ﬁrst day without alcohol
was fantastic. That is, until the Pole 2
ﬁre, which is when I seized upon the
opportunity to exploit the situation
and report on ru-

the Vanderbilt basketball team of beer
pong (always hyped but never make it
past the ﬁrst round)_, that doesn’t mean
that I don’t thoroughly enjoy playing
beer pong. Sadly, I had to pass up the

mors. In my sober
state, I forgot to
RESPECT JOUR-
NALISM and re-
fused the chance
to interview cry-
ing girls who had
just lost everything
they owned within
an hour about the
minute details of
the tragedy they
had just experi-
enced. Maybe I did need alcohol...
Anyway, Monday and Tuesday flew
by with a breeze. Really, refusing the
temptation to casually drink helped the
most on these two days. I did catch up
on work, and I started to follow the news
much more closely. I attended more of
the school’s offered lectures and sym-
posiums. I started saying “Hmmm....
indeed” much more often. Basically, I
attributed my new temperance with a
new academic enlightenment.
Wednesday was the ﬁrst really difﬁ-
cult day of the week for me. After din-
ner, I was sitting around with friends,
and one of them raised his hand only to
follow throw like he was shooting a free
throw in basketball. In modern vernacu-
lar, this movement has two meanings: I)
swish and 2) beer pong. Since we were
sitting in couches and this guy wasn’t
holding a basketball, everyone took it to
mean beer pong. Now,just because I am

letter,   totheedilzor

I am writing to express my frustration with the recent article published by the
The Ring-tum Phi about the ﬁre at Pole 2. I am embarrassed by the unprofessional-

ism displayed by our s"chooI’s only newspaper.

In the first paragraph alone there are TWO FACT ERRORS, not to mention a
grammatical error. The least the Phi editors could have done was proofread the

article, even if they chose to completely disregard reporting the facts.

The correct address is 207 Furrs Mill Road, not 232 Furrs Mill as the article
last week stated.’ Second, the article said there was no one in the house when the
ﬁre started. This is also false. There were three people in the house when the ﬁre
started. Fortunately, they were all able to escape the house safely without injury.

In addition to the factual errors in ﬁrst paragraph, the article also claimed power
to the rest of the pole houses was cut off. This again is pure rumor, as I live at Pole '

3 and we never lost power.

The Phi exploited the situation at the mercy of the six girls who lived at Pole 2. It
put the ﬁre on the front page to attract other student’s attention with no regard to get-
ting the story right. If the Phi thought it was providing a valuable service to the rest
of the community, it failed. If the Phi wanted to inform the rest of the community"
about the ﬁre, it should have taken the time to accurately report the facts, instead of

forwarding rumors.

I understand the Phi’s desire to try and break the story, but the blatant disrespect
shown by publishing false rumors is an embarrassment to professional journalism.

Now more than ever it is important for newspapers to be trustworthy sources of
news. As the public continues to look to the Intemet for its news, newspapers need
to avoid the trap of sacriﬁcing fact for immediacy. Newspapers and other legitimate
news organizations will have no future if they stoop to the level of blogs and Twitter.

This is a prime example of why the American public is turning to Twitter and '
blogs for its news instead of reading newspapers. If the public can’t trust a news-
paper to be more reliable than social networking sites, they have no reason to read

the paper.

So, as a student reader, I ask the Ring-tum Phi to get the facts right before the
next time it publishes an article, especially one as delicate as tragic ﬁre at student

housing.

Editors - Please respect joumalisml

Tyler Tocarczyk

    em 2» zeammz:

PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN TOY CAFE

Located at

LEE E"® TRAVEL PLAZA

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!

Order from our complete menu

Or Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night'Prime Rib Dinner 5pm—10pm

Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, 8. Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday‘Late Night Breakfast Bar 11pm-2am

Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am—11am
Daily Hot Country Bar 12Noon -10pm

Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 10:30am—10pm

We aren ’t alcoholics and while we make
some mistakes while drinking, most of us
are still dumb kids. We are going to get
into trouble and make bad decisions with

or without alcohol in the mix.

magical opportunity and go back to
work.

Later that night, I was at my girl-
friends house doing everything I could
do to forget that tonight was usually a
party night. However, fate had other
ideas when Southern Comfort; decided
to throw a party at that very ‘house. I
sulked. I pouted. I tried to distract my-
self. But nothing worked, and yet, I still
didn’t leave, but that’s mostly because
I’m whipped. After Wednesday, I was
ﬁrmly under the assumption that no one
at W&L can have fun at parties without
the help of alcohol.

Thursday was a nice bounce back day
because people rarely drink on Thurs-
days. I would’ve gone to see Tron in
the Commons, just so I could complete
my on campus activities checklist. But,
I have seen that movie before, and even
Da.ft Punk couldn’t save such a terrible
movie from being the most unwatchable

W

fﬁiir

sci-ﬁ movie since Battleﬁeld Earth.

Friday was the beginning of the
gauntlet. How was I going to be able
to get through Fancy Dress weekend
without alcohol? Not only can I not
dance whatsoever, but I deﬁnitely can-
not dance without the inebriated false
bravado that accompanies most of my
dancing. I was terriﬁed for my date.

I ﬁnally completed my on campus
activities checklist by visiting the senior
art show on Friday. With all due respect
to the Japan symposium, the senior art
show was by far the highlight of my

journey into on campus academic ex-

ploits. If you haven’t checked out the
fridge photographs or the painted train
stations and window reﬁections, you are
missing something quality that our cam-
pus has to offer.

On Saturday, once I ﬁnished my din-
ner and soberly survived the pre-dance
cocktail party, I made it to the dance.
Despite being able to complete all ofmy
sentences, I still got into the obligatory
huge ﬁght with my date and still had to
beg forgiveness for all the stupid trans-
gressions I made that initiated the ﬁght
in the ﬁrst place. I guess alcohol isn’t
responsible for everything.

Once we made up however, my
date and I had a fantastic time at Fancy
Dress. The ambiance was wonderful and
the band on the main dance ﬁoor was
great. I was lucky enough to have a date
that wasn’t too drunk to judge my ter-
rible dancing and also had enough ofa
sense ofa humor to simply laugh at my
futile attempts at rhythm.

See, over Fancy Dress I noticed

‘ something. Alcohol plays at least some-

what ofa role in most of our lives. We

Dear Readers:

circumstances.

report.

This was certainly the biggest

aren’t alcoholics and while we make
some mistakes while drinking, most of
us are still dumb kids. We are going to
get into trouble and make bad decisions
with or without alcohol in the mix. I
still got into a ﬁght with my date, and I
still got into similar bad situations that
I would’ve gotten into with the help of
alcohol. However. there was one thing
missing: the edge. The ﬁght with my
date didn’t seem nearly as apocalyptic,
and it didn’t last nearly as long. I still
ended up being pretty lazy throughout
most of the week, and my temperance
did not persuade me to once call my
family just looking to chat. However, I
still got to wake up every morning with-
out a headache or muddy clothes.

Finally, I noticed one last thing to-
wards the end of Fancy Dress. At Fancy
Dress there were plenty of students who
don’t ever drink who were having a
fabulous time. But there were plenty of
somewhat inebriated students also look-
ing to have a fantastic experience on the
dance ﬁoor.‘So, that got me thinking. On
Wednesday, when I was so miserable
being sober at the Southern Comfort
party, was it really alcohol’s fault or was
it simply that I was separating myself
from the fun? After Fancy Dress, I think
I guess the latter.

So, whatever your current relation-
ship with alcohol is, make sure that you
aren’t waking up in the morning with
regrets and more problems than you
had the morning before, and I’m guess-
ing you’ll have less headaches to worry

' about.

I understand and‘, to an extent, share Mr. Tokarczyk’s frustration with errors in
last week’s7story about the Pole 2 ﬁre. I do not seek to excuse those errors, but I
do wish to defend the Phi staff and state that we did the best we could under the

About 9:30, just as I was about to enter the Phi otﬁce to copy-edit, I saw on Twit-
ter (yes, Twitter) that Pole 2 had burned. Diandra and a few other people were in
the ofﬁce, and I asked them if they had heard this rumor. Diandra informed‘ me that
the rumor was true and that Stockton Bullitt was on the scene and had submitted a

news of the week; unfortunately, the cover page I

layout had already been designed pre-ﬁre. The Pole 2 ﬁre forced us to redesign the

front page. Meanwhile, our early morning Monday deadline‘ steadily approached.
Time that ordinarily would have been spent working with words became time spent
working with layout. We had limited resources ~ both time and people — with which
to pull the paper together.

In the stress of getting the paper together, factual errors slipped through, as well ,

as a clunky sentence. The address error is something that clearly could have been

avoided. I suspect that Mr. Tokarczyk knew Pole 2’s address because he’s a neigh-

bor. While the rest of us have no reason to know Pole 2’s address, the bottom line is

that we assumed it was right and went forward. That was our mistake. And, while

I’m not sure that the grammar error to which Mr. Tokarczyk points is actually an
. error, it is certainly a stylistic failure that should have been ﬁxed.

We also reported that Pole 2 was empty at the time of the ﬁre, and that power had
been cut off to the other Pole Houses. These statements were inaccurate. Here, we
reported the best information we had at the time. The Phi does not magically appear
on Monday afternoons. Our ﬁnal draft has to be at the print shop late Sunday night

or very early Monday morning. We did not have the luxury of waiting. We had to

get something on the page that night, and unfortunately, the only information we had
turned out to be inaccurate.

Did we have to get somethinglon the page that night‘? Absolutely. While Mr.
Tokarczyk castigates us for our errors, how much more odd would the Phi have
looked if there were no mention of the ﬁre at all? I am even more ﬂabbergasted

by Mr. Tokarczyk’s assertion that we exploited the young women living at Pole 2.
Reporting the news is what we do; it’s not exploitative to run an- article about the

biggest news on campus. Neither did we run the article simply out of a desire to
break the news. Twitter and F acebook had done that long before any text went into
the Phi computers. We had to say something about the Pole 2 ﬁre, because reporting
the news is what we do. Inaccuracies in the report are unfortunate occurrences, but
they are not exploitations. '

I am not a professional joumalist — at least, I am not a J-school major. I copy-edit
because Diandra is a friend who cannot put together the entire paper by herself, and
apparently nobody who has class in Reid Hall is interested in doing copy-editing.
I’m learning about journalism on the ﬂy; this is, perhaps, one of those things that
only happen at small liberal-arts schools like Washington and Lee. The episode sur-
rounding the Pole 2 ﬁre has taught me that newspapers are not the medium for
breaking news. because newspapers have limitations. Unfortunately, we are the only
traditional news medium that is consumed by any amountof the W&L community.

Had we gotten other, corrected facts before press time, we would have run them.

The sum of the matter, dear readers, is this: we will strive to do better in the
future. But keep in mind our limitations. We publish once a week; our deadline is
early Monday morning. When news breaks on Sunday night, we do the best we can. I

We will continue to report the facts to the best of our knowledge. If any of you, _es-
pecially I-school majors, feel you can do a betterjob than I do on the copy-editing

front, I will be happy to yield and leave the journalism to_the journalists. Until then,
continue to call us out where we fall short. A

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7, days a week!

I-81 & I-64, Exit 195, 2516 North Lee Hwy., Lexington, VA

Great food & a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

540-463-3478

 

I Best,

Samuel Gilleran ‘ 11
Not a Journalism Major
But Still Editing Copy

 

 

 

4

 

' THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011

opinions

 

Cows can breathe a si

gh of relief  

Well, a few can... Columnist and pescatarian Ali Greenberg explains her decision for a “meat-lite ” diet

By Ali Greenberg
COLU M NIST

While I generally write about cloth-
ing, I honestly have nothing else to
write about until Spring Term when the
lax pennies and croakies come out, so I
present to you a privileged insight into
my life choices. Just in case you cared.

I have been a Pescatarian, also
known as a “fake-vegetarian” for nearly
six years and l’ve been ﬁne.

The only thing keeping me from be-
ing a full on vegetarian is the fact that I
was weaned on sushi as a baby and my
body has developed a necessity to main-
tain obscenely high levels of mercury at
all times. Everyone knows that no harm
can come from excessive consumption
of Tom; just ask Jeremy Piven if you
don’t believe me.

So besides my sushi addiction, for
nearly 1/3 of my life I haven’t con-
sumed meat. No, chicken, no steak, and
no bacon. (It should be noted that pork
is just about the only thing that Jews and
Muslims agree on, so there may be some
validity to those woes.)

It wasn’t very hard for me to adjust.
I never really cared much for meat to
begin with, or at least not “every day”

day that it wasn’t the

“Plus, wouldn ’t I totally regret
not eating Guinea Pig when I

had the chance? ”

meat. I

What I missed was a mixed bag: pork
BBQ, brisket, country ham, meatballs
and a really good Gyro. It’s like a hoagie
or a sub, but you are just calling it the
wrong name. But this stuff wasn’t my
everyday fare in northern suburbia, so I
wasn’t really giving anything up.

Then one day I watched Super Size
Me and stopped with fast food. And
then I watched some PETA videos and
felt like by consuming the product I was
supporting the mistreatment of animals
that suffered horrible conditions in the
slaughterhouses before they were killed.

I want to be clear that I believe eat-
ing meat is a natural and normal human
choice, and I don’t think anyone is bad
for choosing to do it. I just decided one

choice for me.

So I decided to
try being a vegetar-
ian for a month, and
I never stopped.

That is, until
about a two months
ago when I went to
The Homeplace. Not

the Homestead. And this is the point in
the article where the boys who ﬂipped to
the Sports page are going to regret their
decisions.

The Homeplace is a southern Vir-
ginia staple, located in an old farmhouse
on a sprawling estate 15 minutes outside
of Roanoke. It’s the kind of place where
reservations don’t exist and I have never
waited less than 30 minutes for a table.
One time when my brother tried to pay
with an Amex, they told us to just mail
them a check later.

How’s that for an honor system?

Only there can $l6 get you so much.

/ You don’t order, you just decide two
meats or three meats and then you are
brought heaping quantities of fried

chicken, roast beef, country ham, green
beans, pinto beans, biscuits, apple but-
ter, cole slaw, mashed ‘potatoes and gra-
vy. Plus the vegetable of the day, which
is sometimes macaroni and cheese, and
on Thursdays there is Pork BBQ.

Oh yeah, and then they end the meal
with fruit cobbler. There is a phrase
for this kind of stuff-it is called “Food
Porn”.

So after years of literally smelling
other people’s plates (you taste a lot
with your nose), I decided I would see if
I was still missing out.

I grabbed a drumstick and took a bite.
And it was gross. Like, disgusting. Meat
is nasty. I realized all I actually craved
was the breading and seasoning. Fried
chicken is such a tease.

And although I am positive that it
would be delicious to anyone else, Ijust
simply don’t like meat anymore. I reas-
sured myself that I had made the right
choice and didn’t worry about any car-
nivorous temptations.

However, two weeks ago I found out
that I was accepted to a summer intem-
ship _in Peru. This is when I realized I

was kind of screwed.

I had passed off chorizo in Spain,
schwarma in Israel and bisteq in Uru-
guay, but an 8-week stay in Peru would
require a change. Spending my summer
studying poverty in a third-world coun-
try means that I need to actually assimi-
late. And it would be culturally insensi-
tive, difficult and just plain stupid to not
eat meat during my stay.

Plus, wouldn’t I totally regret not eat-
ing guinea pig when I had the chance?

So now I am slowly incorporating
meat back into my diet, and it SUCKS.
Chicken is bland and I spend every day
worrying about getting sick. But if I
don’t reprogram my body to digest and
metabolize more complex proteins, then
I am going to be seriously screwed when
I land in Cuzco.

Oh yeah, and getting used to the alti-
tude sickness and water parasites won’t
be a walk in the park either.

“AKA”what‘? Q&A about new srat

Sally Platt answers some intriguing questions about the newest sorority to join ranks at Washington and Lee

By Sally Platt
c 0 L U M N I s T

So you may have noticed those girls
around campus all decked out in pearls
and pink and green (and if you _haven’t,
you will soon). Who are they, and why
are they always yelling “skee-wee” at
each other? This Q&A will hopefully
answer those questions and help you get
to know the newest addition to W&L
Greek life!

Q: What does AKA stand for?

A: Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority (In-
corporated). -

Q: Then what is all this “Tau Zeta”
business about?

A: “Tau Zeta” is the unique W&L
chapter name, given to the Sorors upon
their chartering.

Q: So what will the group be known
as --- Tau Zeta or AKA?

A: AKA, because it is the nationally
recognized name. I

Q: Will AKA ever have a house?

A; No. As part of NHPC (National

Pan-Hellenic Council), not NPC (Na-
tional Panhellenic Conference), it will
not have a house. (It’s a Divine Nine
thing.) But, as someone observed to me,
“We’re‘AKA’s. We don’t need a house to
make ourselves legit.”

Q: Why at W&L, and why now?

A: Plans to bring AKA to W&L have
actually been in the works for at least
ﬁve years. This year, with the tremen-
dous help of Dean Futrell, everything
just ﬁnally came together. (We love our
Dean Tammy!)

Q: When exactly did all this happen?

A: On March 20th twelve W&L
women were initiated into AKA and
ofﬁcially chartered the Tau Zeta Chap-
ten. This was followed by a luncheon in
Evans Dining Hall attended by over two
hundred people. Besides featured speak-
ers such as Dean Watkins and the AKA
Regional Director, the real attraction
was Michael McGuire ’l3 who sang a

-v—-~——»~~j WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY - » ———————————————— -

THERING-TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
STOCKTON BULLITT
HOLLY SUTHERS
JAYNAJOHNS
SAMUEL GILLERAN‘
JULIANNA SATTERLY
noue BEALLE
DEVIN COOPER
GRETCHEN FRITCHIE
ADRIANA GONZALEZ
ALIGREENBERG
KELSY MCCRAW
KATIE MICHELINI

DESIGN EDITOR
. HEAD PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

SALLY PLATT
KELLY MAE ROSS
MEGAN SHAW
PATRICK SMITH
TYLER TOOARCZYK
SAGE UM
JULIANNA SATTERLY
STEELE BURROW
ROB GEORGE
MATT GOSSETT
KELLY LANE

JOE MORAVEC
ZABRIAWN SMITH
EVAN SHARBER
DAVE WILSON

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately. truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty, parents.
and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper into news
affecting campus life and hold_ leaders accountable.

Through our reporting,
discussions that lead to discovering information
that prompts change.

we aspire to spark

THE /?ING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM PHI
is a member of The Media Board, which can be
reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is otherwise
independent,THE RING—TUM PHI welcomes all
letters. We reserve the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and advertising do
not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE RING-TUM
PHI staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

THE RING~TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

special tribute song (to thunderous ap-
plause). The new Sorors also sang their

chapter song “Diamonds and Pearls”

(to the tune of the Prince version of the
same name). '

Q: Speaking of songs, I’ve heard lyr-
ics to an old AKA chant that go, “One
plus one is two, Two plus one is three,
You better watch your man, Because
your man is watching me". Any com-
ments?

A: --------- --

Q: l’ve heard that AKA is a multicul-
tural sorority. Is that true?

A: Yes. AKA is a traditionally black
greek organization. It is in fact the ﬁrst
black greek sorority in America (sorry
Deltas). It was founded on January l5th,
1908, on the campus of Howard Univer-
sity.

Q: How has it changed since it’s
founding?

A: Although still keeping true to it’s

I

purpose of “Service to all Mankind,”

AKA has grown tremendously. Intema-
tionally, there are 250,000 members in
over 900 chapters.

Q: So AKA is a service organization?

A: Yes. Through its undergraduate
and graduate chapters AKA provides as-
sistance to the community in a variety
of ways, including education, health,
and ﬁtness. (But trust me --- this doesn’t
mean we don’t like to have fun!)

Q: What does the Tau Zeta Chapter
hope to accomplish on our campus?

A: Well, I can’t conﬁrm any of this,
but I’ve,heard that programming possi-
bilities for the near future include “Zum-
ba on the Green," First-Aid Certiﬁca-
tion, and care packages sent to women
at Living Waters for Girls (an Atlanta
organization dedicated to providing
victims of commercial sexual trade a
new beginning). And who knows, a step
show would always be fantastic! (The

Tau Zeta women have also already spent
a morning helping out at Boxerwood
Gardens). ,

Q: So who exactly is in the sorority?

A: Tau Zeta consists of twelve W&L
women from all grade-levels. They are:
Devin Cooper, Joan Oguntimein, Adri-
ana Gonzales, Amber Cooper, Mica
Winchester, Lavisha Redmon, Jeanine
Bailey, Kahena (Kiki) J oubert, De-Anna
Clarke,‘ Kira Sedberiy, Sally Platt and
Nichelle Corbitt.

Q: Who is the President?

A: Amber Cooper.

Q: What’s with the pearls?

A: The sororities was founded by
twenty women who have become known
as the “twenty pearls.” (Plus, pearls are
classy!....just like AKA’s).

Q: So what DOES “skee-wee” actu-
ally mean???

A: Well I could tell you....but then I’d
have to kill you. “Skeeee-wee!!!”

Down memory lane  

Patrick Smith recounts the greatest nostalgic moments of our
generation is pop culture past

By Patrick Smith
C 0 L U M N l ST

I have been thinking about writing

this article for quite some time now.
Just kidding, I just Google searched
“article ideas,” and this popped up.
This is you judging me; this is my care
face...

I I was sitting at the fraternity house

one day talking about all the stupid,

stuff kids are into these days like Justin
Beiber and Silly Bandz, and it made me
think about all the things I used to love
as a kid.

Even though the Washington and
Lee community is extremely geograph-
ically diverse, I’m sure most of you
share an appreciation for the fads you
are about to read, (Of course you could
stop reading this article altogether; once
again, care face...).

Without further hesitation, the com-
plete list of the guilty pleasures of our
childhoods:

Power Rangers

Power Rangers meant to my child-
hood as winning means to Charlie
Sheen. Back when I was a stupid little
ginger kid, I wanted but two things. I
wanted to operate a Zord, and to marry
the pink ranger, Kimberly. Also, I was
the red ranger for Halloween-twice.

Old School Nickelodeon Shows-

I’m talking about Hey Dude, Double
Dare, Salute Your Shorts, Legends of
the Hidden Temple, Are You Afraid of
the Dark?, Pete and Pete, Rocko’s Mod-
ern Life and, of course, Doug. They just
don’t make shows like these anymore.
I was always so pissed that I couldn’t
apply to be on Double Dare because I
have ﬁve family members. Ifl ever did
get selected to be on that show, I’d just
tell my sister there’s a Dawson’s Creek
marathon on.

Disc Men

I remember when the Disc Man
came out; I had to have one. Wearing
a heavy circular object attached to my
belt just seemed like the right thing to
do. Listening to the only good Smash
Mouth CD was just the icing on the
cake.

Crazy Bones ,

This has to be the dumbest of all the
toys kids used to play with back in the
day. Does anyone even know that Cra-
zy Bones is actually a game with rules?
I collected the hell out of these until my
ﬁfth grade teacher conﬁscated ’my two
favorite ones after I “allegedly” ran an
underground prostitution ring out of the
boys’ bathroom.

Pokemon Cards  

These were a HUGE deal. Hav-
ing holographic Pokemon cards was a
symbol of status amongst men. This
was another thing people collected and
never played with. Did the creators of
Pokemon cards actually think us kids
were smart enough to "understand the
rules of that game? Pokemon cards
were cool until I left my whole binder
at the Jersey Shore and lost every single
card. I cried for days, got over it and
moved on to the next waste of my par-
ent’s money.

Pogs

Ok, I take back what ,I said about
Crazy Bones. Pogs were the dumb-
est toy ever created. Whoever thought
that circular pieces of cardboard with
pictures on them were a good idea is
an idiot-likely a very wealthy idiot. I
collected the hell out of these until my
sister decided to douse all my Pogs in
water because set one of her Barbies on
ﬁre. ‘

I have plenty more items on this list
but quite frankly, care face. ..

Two" snowmen are standing in a

ﬁeld. One says to the other : “Funny I
smell carrots too.” I

3.»! _4

9 .

v .

it

 
    
        

$1 00 Gift Card at Kroger

 

   

Enter to Win |
  @ Genera|sRetreat _
‘ '   on Facebook or follow us I A
  ' on Twitter @GenRetreat  
I     I
A I I I
I A] A _.
 i i
  A i
     GENERALS’
“ APARTMENTS .
A‘ Affiliated with Washington & Lee Univereity |
  : Askus about our
  INCREDIBLE k
         referral program and   i
' i I      . save $$$$!   I
% ~     i
_, , 2 & 4 Bedroom Avilable tl
'   t         I
_ i;1.°g:.::.;i,6.;:.:om J

 

  

6 ' THE RING-TUM PHI °

M 0 N DAY, MARCH28, 2011

arts&life

 

Ladies’ Club unites to fight exploitation

The W&L Ladies ’ Club performed choreo-poetry readings to illustrate the horriﬁc world of sexual traﬁicking

By Devin Cooper
STAFF WRITER

Until recently, the commercial sexual
exploitation of enslaved persons, espe-
cially children, has been characterized
as a non-American issue. However, that
is not the case. The organization Living
Water for Girls illustrates this American
issue more poignantly:

“Young American girls are being
raped daily for profit in communities
we call home. Why‘? Because there are
adults who demand to have sex with our
children. This physical, mental, emo-
tional and spiritual trauma often leaves

Service lea

Nabors Service League will hold t e

By Katie Michelini
STAFF WRITER

With the passing of Fancy Dress
comes Washington and Lee’s next big
spring event: Nabors Spring Service
Day. This year’s service day falls on
Saturday, April 2nd. Following lunch on
Cannan Green, participants will spend
their afternoons engaging in various
local service projects. Through Nabors
Service Day, the entire student body has
the opportunity to get involved in the
Lexington community and get an idea
of what Nabors Service League has to
offer.

Nabors Service League began in
memory of Jonathon Owen Nabors.
Jonathon was a student at W&L who
died tragically in a car accident retum-
ing to school after Christmas break. Ac-
cording to family and friends, he was

children broken and scarred for life.”
(www.livingwaterforgirls.org). I

This industry generates ‘more than
$13 billion annually and according to
the National Center for Missing and
Exploited Children, there are more than
300,000 children that are victimized
here in the United States.

The Washington and Lee Ladies’
Club has addressed this epidemic. As
an organization dedicated to the healthy
personal, spiritual and academic devel-
opment of women on campus, the W&L

known for his good nature, fun-loving
spirit and sincerity. Jonathon had an ob-
servable love for W&L and the Lexing-
ton community.

Following his death, his friends

Ladies’ Clubjoined the ﬁght against the
sexual exploitation of young women.
In 2009, the Ladies’ Club partnered
with the organization Living Water for
Girls—an organization based in the state
of Georgia that rescues and rehabilitates
young American girls who were victims
of commercial sexual exploitation.
Todate, the W&L Ladies’ Club has
hosted three events to help raise aware-
ness about this problem and to raise
money for Living Water to buy clothes,
toiletries, and other necessities for the

encourages a spirit of service and con-
nects service with learning through the
productive use of an individual’s talents
and interests. A leadership committee

young ladies that live on the grounds
owned by Living Water for Girls.

On Tuesday, March 8th, the W&L
Ladies’ Club performed a “choreo-po-
em” entitled “Every Drop That Falls”
which illustrated our perspective of
the life of young women who have ex-

perienced the hellish world of sexual.

traﬂicking. The choreo-poem gained
substantial support from faculty, staff,
student groups such as W&L Active
Minds and LIFE, and even the support
ofa Lexington business, Intimate U.

moting issues awareness and connect-
ing potential volunteers with needy or-
ganizations. The committee also aspires
to maintain an umbrella organization for
students interested in service.

collaborated to create Nabors Ser-
vice League. The organization aims
to promote fellowship amongst Lex-
ington residents, W&L students,
faculty and staff through community
service. Ideally creating a larger,
more inclusive community, this or-
ganization would serve to echo the
way Jonathon lived his life. To this

  

aborét

Service League

Nabors Service Day is an essen-
tial element ofthe league’s mission.
By providing a chance for students
to make a one-day service commit-
ment, Nabors Service League has
the opportunity to introduce more
of the student body to opportunities
to serve through a fun, low-pressure
event. This year, service day par-

day, his parents are continuously in-
volved in every Nabors event.

Nabors Service League is currently
one of the largest student-run organiza-

tions at W&L. The league promotes and from organizing alternative breaks, pro- pus Kitchens, Woods Creek Montes- F

Dance company
to erform  

in ividual pieces 2

Washington and Lee Repertory Dance
Company will showcase pieces from students
and alumni Thursday to Saturday

By Adriana Gonzalez
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Repertory
Dance Company will be performing in
the Lenfest Center for the Arts Thurs-
day, March 31st through Saturday, April
3rd. Performances on Thursday and
Friday will be at 7:30pm and at 2:00pm
on Saturday. This season’s performance
features choreography not only from
current students and guest artists but
also from dance company alumni A’rese
Emokpae ’l0 and Rasaq Lawal ’l0.

The highlights of the show include
two student pieces by dance minors
Stephanie Brown ’II and Dana Fred-
ricks ‘I2. About her piece, “Pearls of
Self-Destructive Wisdom”, Brown
comments, “How do you find yourself
with so many different voices, opin-
ions, and inﬂuences explaining what a
person should be. “Pearls of Self-De-
structive Wisdom” is about the journey
that searching for yourself and your
{voice amongst the many other voices
that surround each of us daily.” Along
with choreographing the piece, Brown
also created the music that accompanies
it. The piece will be performed by Ra-
chel Alexander ’13, Sally Nexsen ’l4,
and Jennifer Ritter ’l3. Brown has been
dancing most of her life and is a mem-
ber of Nu Delta Alpha, a dance honor
society.

Fredricks’ piece, “Boundless”, is an
aerial fabric piece that she will be per-
forming herself. “Does the possibility of
falling 20 ft. offthe fabric and plummet-
ing to the ground scare me? Quite pos-
sibly... but I do it anyways,” says Fred-
rick. Her interest was piqued. when she
was a part of the first aerial dance class
Spring Term 2009 which performed on
the side of Wilson Hall. Fredrick then
went on to take private classes in aerial
dance. Fredrick is the first student in
W&L’s dance history to choreograph
and perform a piece using aerial dance
fabric.

The concert also features pieces by
Ohad Naharin from the Batsheva Dance

Company in Israel, Shaleigh Comerford
and W&L Repertory Dance Company
Creative Director and assistant dance
professor Ienefer Davies.

The piece by Naharin entitled “Mi-
nus I6” features traditional Hebrew
music and dynamic movement. The
New York Times describes Naharin’s
choreography as “distinguished by stun-
ningly ﬂexible limbs and spines, deeply
grounded movement, explosive bursts
and a vitality that grabs a viewer by the
collar.”

Davies choreographed two pieces
for the concert, “Leon” and “Tragedy
of the Commons”. Leon is a unique
collaboration between dancers and the
Washington and Lee Chamber Singers.
The piece tells the story of the “Way of
St. James” or Camino Santiago, a pil-
grimage trail through France and Spain
to the tomb of St. James the Apostle.
Her other piece, “Tragedy of the Com-
mons”, is an interactive piece that incor-
porates audience input, live feedback
and economic theory. The piece is a col-
laboration of Davies, W&L professorl
designer Shawn Paul Evans and econo-
mist Anthony Davies.

Comerford’s piece “Composition in
Retrospect” is a “group collective piece
overseen by guest artist, Shaleigh Com-
erford, who modeled the creation of this
piece on her work with Forsythe Im-
provisation Technologies. Among other
things, these dancers use the Fibonacci
sequence as a means of redeﬁning and
shaping movement,” says Davies.

All in all, this year’s concert looks
to be a very compelling and intellectual
culmination of unique collaborations
and techniques.

For more information about this and
other events in the Lenfest Center for
the Arts and tickets, contact the Len-

‘ fest Box Office Monday through Friday
from 9-llam and 2-4pm at (540) 458- '

8000 or log onto lenfest.wlu.edu.

composed of thirteen students runs the
league and has responsibilities ranging

ticipants will work with organiza-
tions like Hoofbeats Therapeutic
Riding Center, the Magnolia Center,
the YMCA, Boxerwood Gardens, Cam-

The goal for the event was to open
the eyes of the community and convey
that anyone can help combat the sexual
predatorsxthat are lurking in the shad-
ows therefore helping prevent the un-
derground trade of childhood slavery in
the United States. '

ue gears u for volunteer day

Spring Service Day on Saturday for students to work on projects in the community

sori School and the Manor 5of Natural
Bridge. These organizations showcase
some of the service opportunities Lex-

_ ington has to offer.

To register for next __week’s event,
students may sign-up online at the Na-
bors Service League webpage (http://
www.wlu.edu/x29569.xml) or at tables
in the Commons beginning on Monday,
March 28th. The service day begins
with lunch and registration at 12:30

pm. and willend by 4:00 p.m.

Nymphs? Wooly Buggers? and Roll Casting? How about stripping line?
Mending line? and tying surgeon's loops? Ever wanted to learn about Fly
Fishing? Here is your chance on Wednesday March 30th at 7pm in the
Outing Club meeting room in the Elrod Commons at Washington and Lee

University.

We'll be joined by Doug Lane,'79 from Anglers Lane ﬂy shop in Lynchburg,
VA who will be teaching Fly Fishing 101. This is your chance to learn all you
need to before heading out with some ﬂies, a rod and a fishing license!

Attendance is free and this event is open to the public.

3‘

 

   

MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011

7 ' THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

sports

 The issues behind the NFL lockout

A player-sympathizer covers the problems facing the league, especially whether there will be action thisiseason or not

 

 

By Megan Shaw
STAFF WRITER

No matter what kind of sports fan
you are, the months of September
through J anuary would be bare without
the NFL. So when the decertiﬁcation of
the National Football League Players
Association, or NFLPA, led to a player
lockout, the nation was certainly taken
aback.

The decertiﬁcation of the NFLPA
simply means that the players are no
longer in any relationship or associa-
tion with the NFL itself. They have, in
a sense, been “locked out” of the league.

After negotiations with the NFL over
a new collective bargaining agreement
failed to resolve their labor argument,
decertiﬁcation . was the players’ only

choice.

On March 4, the collective bargain-
ing agreement between the NFL and
its players expired since a new contract
could not be agreed upon. The NFLPA
no longer wanted to participate in col-
lective bargaining due to a discrepancy
in revenue split between the owners and
the players.

Although the NFL claims that 70
percent of the extra revenues were go-
ing to the players, they had only been re-
ceiving 52.9 percent of the incremental
increases to all revenues in the original
collective bargaining contract.

The players want to be assured that
they are not only being paid fairly, but
that they will be protected as a member

of an NFL team.

On March 11, the players were of-
ﬁcially locked out of their facilities by
the owners.

US District Judge David Doty ruled
that the NFL had been actively and stra-
tegically planning to lock out the players
for over two years. The NFL had con-
tracted TV networks like\DirectTV to
provide over $4 billion in revenue even
if something like the lockout were to
happen. Even though the owners could
go an entire season without ticket or
memorabilia or snack sales, they will
still have the cushion of the billion dol-
lar television agreements. Doty ruled
that the NFL was advancingonly its
own interests, rather than the players’.

The players’ best chance of prevent-
ing a prolonged lockout would be to

consider the protections provided by‘

federal anti-trust laws that forbid any
illegal corporate behavior. To protect
themselves and to protect their families,
the players would completely disaf-
ﬁliate with the union to pursue any kind
anti-trust case. Ten players, including
Drew Brees and Peyton Manning, have
already ﬁled an anti-trust lawsuit against
the NFL to attempt to combat the lock-
out.

Doty withdrew his earlier ruling that
had given the owners the right to that $4
billion in television revenue during this
period. This is great news for the players
because the owners will no longer Lise

that huge fund as insurance during the
lockout. At a later date, Doty will con-
sider granting the players with equitable
support and ﬁscal damages, so now it
will be almost impossible for the owners
to pay off their debt if there is a lengthy
lockout. .

With this lockout, an estimated $160
million would be lost in each NFL city
and over 100,000 jobs would be lost.
The lockout could ultimately com-
pletely eradicate the 2011-2012 NFL
season, but there is certainly hope that
it will only slightly disrupt the players’
preparation for what could be a success-
ful season.

Generals split double header with ODAC rival

The W&L baseball team recovered from an 11-inning, 12-8 loss in the ﬁrst game to move to a 10-10 season record

By Gretchen Frltchie
smrr wanrn

Following a one-run loss against
#1 Shenandoah on Tuesday (5-4), the

' Washington and Lee baseball team split

an ODAC doubleheader with Hampden-
Sydney on Saturday afternoon at Cap’n
Dick Smith Field.

In a much anticipated rivalry match-
up, the Generals fell to the Tigers 12-8
in 11 innings in the opener, but came
-back to win at 3-2 in the 9 innings of
the second game. Of their loss against

Shenandoah, co-captain Anthony Car-
dona said, “It was deﬁnitely disappoint-
ing coming up short against number one
Shenandoah. However our coaches did
a great job of getting us refocused and
prepared for H-SC.”

Losing the opener against the Hamp-
den—Sydney Tigers was tough for W&L.
Sophomore Alex Maragos even said
that his team expected to get on the ﬁeld
and sweep the team, but a late rally by

the Tigers in the 11th inning took any
chance of sweeping the competition
away from the Generals. Hampden-
Sydney sent nine hitters to the plate in
the llth inning, adding another 4 runs to
their score to pull of the 12-8 win.

Despite the hard loss in the back of
their minds, senior pitcher and co-cap-
tain Gregg Laswell gave the Generals
the heat they needed in the second game
to pull out a win.

Laswell didn’t allow a 141-SC hit un-
til the sixth inning, giving his team a
boost of motivation to get the runs they
needed to win atpthe bottom of the ninth.
Rallying with two outs in the last inning,
the Generals were able to bring in 3 hits
to give Laswell the win he deserved.

_ “It’s a good thing we had Laswell
pitching for us,” said Maragois. “He kept
us in the game even though we were hit-
ting very poorly.”

The W&L baseball team is now 10-
10 and 7-3 in conference play, and will
return to action this Tuesday at Eastern
Mennonite for a 3pm matchup.

W&L golfers tee up at Camp Lejeune

By Tyler Tokarczyk
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Gener-
als men’s golf team travelled to Camp
Lejeune, N.C. last weekend to compete
in the Camp Lejeune Intercollegiate

held at the Paradise Point Golf Course. ,

The tournament included 32 teams play-
ing on two different courses for the ﬁrst
two days of competition.

The Generals struggled during the
ﬁrst day of competition on Friday, post-
ing a team score of 307. They played

the Gold course (Par 72), the more difﬁ-
cult of the two courses at Paradise Point.
F irst-year Jack Cottrill led the way post-
ing a two-over 74, followed by Junior
Wilson Anthony who shot a 75 on day
one. Senior Tom Bowden was the only
other General to break 80 and logged an
opening round 78.

Moving to the easier Scarlet Course
(Par 70) on Saturday, the Generals im-
proved signiﬁcantly. Anthony continued

 

W&L wants
YOU!

Work with alums and parents
in designated cities to develop
internships for W&L students

Gain confidence and experience
marketing yourself
and your school

-Applications being accepted for
Internship Opportunity Initiative
City Coordinators

Apply on W&L ]obLink
. Deadline: April 1

Search City Coordinator, IOI under Job Postings
Contact Career Services for details

CareerServices

his solid play and shot a 71 on day two
to lead the Generals after two rounds of
play with a combined score of 146.

Senior captain Tim Gavrich, who led
the Generals with a 75.2 stroke average
heading into the tournament, responded
to a disappointing opening round of 80
by shaving off 13 strokes and shooting
a three-under 67 for a two-day score of
147. ’

Cottrill also ﬁnished with a two-day

Greeksialt

SERVING

9”.  . Ti Breakfast~ Lunch~ Dinner . t
it =;(Breakfast served all day!)

J L 1 igfruesday-Thursday: 7AM - 9PM if
9 1. L Friday and Saturday:‘7AM — 10PM 7 1

Sunday: 7AM - 3PM
Closed Mondays '

Lunch and Dinner Specials!
9 1 . 1 Carry Out Available 1
Go Greek at Niko's!

167 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 540.464.9499
Fax: 540.464.1226

Look for menu at www.nikosgrill-cafe.com

s;j:1i‘f., 

  
&f?Americant acuiisifnef  '5

score of 147 after ﬁnishing with a 73 on
Saturday. . Bowden and fellow senior
Rand Potter rounded out the Generals
two-day totals with 153 and 165 respec-
tively.

As a team the Generals ﬁnished with
a 593 two-day score which was unfor-
tunately not good enough for them to
qualify for the championship bracket on
‘Sunday. The Generals instead compet-
ed in the consolation bracket on Sunday

i The team competed in a three-day tournament over the weekend, seeing signiﬁcant improvement from Day 1 to Day 2

with the other teams who placed in the
bottom half after two days of golf.

The Generals did not ﬁnish in time
on Sunday to make this edition of the
Phi.

The team will compete in the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania Invitational
next Friday. It will be their last compe-
tition before the ODAC Championship
April 17-19 at Bay Creek Resort in Cape
Charles, Va.

Questions?
Comments?

email
  P/7I°@Wlu.ed,u

  

THE RING-TUM PHI '

ondeck,

Mon Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT
at at at 4
Eastern Randolph-
Baseball memo“-3'“g°""3*e' Macon
3 pm 4 pm 12 pm
! V5 V5
Men S Middlebury . Randolph
Lacrosse 7 pm 1 pm
vs Vlrglnla
Women's swag“-‘at Wesleyan
Lacrosse 4 pm. 2:30 Pm
t "5 '.
Menis Roaanoke carnegla
_ ellon
Tennis 3.30pm 10 am
vs
womenis Carnegie
Mellon
Tennis 1 pm
Liberty
Track Invitation
9:30am
‘l
Golf

 

i  numbers

0

‘The number of top-seeded teams to make survive to the
Final Four of the NCAA basketball tournament. In fact, this
year marks the first time since tournament seeding began
in 1979 that not a single 1 or 2 seeded team made it to the

Final 4.

2

According to ESPN, out of the 5.9 million brackets that were
submitted for March Madness, only this many had the cor-
rect Final Four consisting of 3 seed Connecticut, 4 seed
Kentucky, 8 seed Butler and 11 seed VCU. VC|_J and Butler
will play each other for a spot in the final, while Connecticut

‘ will take on Kentucky.

18» 

V John Lomax III, the man who fatally stabbed University of
Connecticut football player Jasper Howard during an on-
campus fight in 2009, was sentenced to this many years in
prison for his crimes, according to espn.com. The 22-year-old

plead no contest to ﬁrst-degree manslaughter in January.

soapbox ‘
“The run ends here.”

-—ElIherMarousorMarldefl'Morrls,uio1iulnswhoplqy
basltauaalIfortiieUnlvorslIyofKansas,ofrorodtheseparung
wordstbvlmnla commonwealth UnlveisIlyguardJo9_(
Rodrlguezatamoetlruwlliitheoaplalnsandoﬂlclalsbeforo
sundarszams. 11.-seedvcllproooededtnoonunuethelr
'run'whllo knocldngol'l'#1Kansas,71-61, and movelnto
thoﬁnal Fourol'theNCMtnumament.

 

“He needs help. l told the Cowboys from
day one that he needs help. Matter of fact,
they have a team in place to help him. But
you cannot tell a grown man what to do.”

--Delonsanders,thefonnermemorof0awbo_¢s'receIver
DezBnlInt.saldorBryantafuoraloI'IgrunoflenItroubles,
themostrsoerrtofwhlch resulladln Bryantbelnzbanned
ﬂomaTaxasrnall.sanderssaldheendedhls menlnrlng
relalionshlpwltt|Bryantavsrthosummerdueto1hoplqyer's

lackofhonesly. .
“As we near the exciting conclusion of
‘March Madness’ -— which would more
accurately be described as the 2011 NCAA
Professional Basketball Championships
 it's time we step back and ﬁnally address
the myth of amateurism surrounding big-
time college football and basketball in this
country.”

— Ralph Nadenwholspmposlriguiatcollegaauiieuc

scholarships be discontinued In favor of need-based financial
old. _,

MONDAY,

MARCH 28, 2011

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team upended ODAC rival and 16th ranked
Lynchburg 4-3 on Saturday, improving their
conference record to 3-0. The win was their

4th in a row, a streak that included another’

one goal win at Hampden-Sydney a week
ago. i

The Generals‘ offense was powered by
the attack as four different attackmen scored.
Senior Spence Daw added one to his team-
high 14 goals in the first quarter. Junior Scott
Meehan tallied one in the second quarter.
Sophomore Mac Means added one in the
third, and [sophomore Jack Switala notched
the game winner with 12:31 left in the ﬁnal

‘period.

However, the Generals were able to win
on the strength of their defense, which held
Lynchburg scoreless for the opening and
closing quarters. They were especially mas-
terful as they held tight while short two men
due to penalties towards the end of the third
quarter. ‘

Men ’s lacrosse wins fourth straight game and remains undefeat
By Doug Bealle
STAFF WRITER

Senior Jason Lumpkin continued his ex-
cellent play in goal with ten saves, including
turning back a shot from point blank range
with one minute left to play. lniaddition, he
picked up a team high seven ground balls.
Sophomore defenseman Joe LaSala was re-
sponsible for ﬁve of the 17 turnovers the
Generals’ defense caused on the day.

The four game run was started when the
Generals defeated Kenyon 13-7 at home.
They were led in that game by Daw and
Switala, who each had three goals and two
assists. ' ‘

They followed that up with a dramatic 9-8
win at Hampden-Sydney to open up ODAC
play. Means, Daw andjunior Sam Mott each
had two goals, Lumpkin notched 14 saves,
and junior Scott Meehan had the game-win-
ning goal with 5:4l left. H-SC was ranked
l3th in the country at the time.

The Generals kept the streak alive when
Guilford came to town with an ll-l victory.

Switala had a hat trick, but the rest ofthe of-

fense was very spread out as eight other play-
ers each had one goal.

The Generals took their win streak into
the Lynchburg game and defended their home
turf. In doing so, they started the ODAC sea-
son 3-0 for the first time in the careers of any
of the current players. T

“We are deﬁnitely sitting in the driver’s
seat this season, controlling our own destiny
for the ODAC tournament,” said captain JD
Englehart. “We have the opportunity to get a
few home games, which is huge.”

And the current winning streak? Daw said
it best: “Everybody loves a hot streak.”

The Generals will try to keep it alive on
Tuesday when they travel to Georgetown
University to play 7th-ranked Middlebury
College.

The Generals have a 3-0 confer-
ence record, including a 4-3 win
over #16 Lynchburg.

STEELE BUW / head photographer

ed in ODAC play

  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
   
 
 
 
    

