Are

1,’! S-755
I?:.'>D’L

\/- H4-

Ylo. \\


i
ii

a (,,f]__

 

   

 

WASHINGT ND LEE UNIVERSITY

And ﬂ1at’s what you missed on Glee!

-Patrick Smith defends his taste in television and
recaps the show’s second season.

_ OPINIONS / page 3

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6,2010

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXIV, NUMBER 9

Graduation:
Why wait?

Seven seniors enter ‘the real

world earlier than the rest

By Paige Gance
STAFF WRITER

Seven seniors will graduate early this December,
which is more than the last ﬁve years combined.

Last year, only three seniors graduated early. In-
cluding this year, 26 students have done so in the
past decade. ,

The reasons for graduating early‘vary from stu-
dent to student, but current credit policies have made
it easier to do so.

When the class of 2011 entered Washington and
Lee, they needed 121 credits to graduate. Now the
requirement is only 113 for all graduating classes,
regardless of the requirement when they started at
W&L.

University Registrar Scott Dittman said that when
the credit requirement was higher, students were usu-
ally awarded more credits for AP scores and other
outside credits. Now, he said, “standards are tighter
for credit transfer.” - ‘

This means that the class of 2011 could, for ex-
ample, have received six credits for an AP U.S. His-
tory score that is now only worth three.

Neither of the two seniors who commented on
their early graduation ever had to overload or take
summer courses in order to accumulate the required
number of credits.

Senior Jack Ivy ﬁnished his computer science
major last spring term and only needs to pass this
semester’s courses in order to reach 113 credits. Ivy
entered his freshmen year with math credit that al-
ready counted toward his major.

“I knew what I wanted to do coming in,” Ivy said,
which helped him focus on the required classes for
his major.

Senior Beth Valentine already has enough credits
to graduate and only needs to pass yoga in order to
have the required four PE classes. She has already
completed her philosophy major and will complete a
politics major this semester.

All seniors who plan to graduate early must ap-
ply for their degree in the spring of their junior year.
Even though Valentine missed the deadline, she said
the philosophy department was supportive and a fac-
ulty/student board approved her early graduation.

As for post-graduation plans, both Ivy and Valen-
tine are engaged to W&L students who have already
graduated. While the rest of the student body takes
ﬁnals, Valentine will be getting married. Ivy has set
his date for the weekendbefore the Class of 2011
Commencement. All seniors who graduate early
will still be able to walk with their class at com-
mencement, even though their degree will have been
mailed to them in January.

Ivy said he hopes to “get ajump on the job mar-
ket,” while saving $19,750 that would have gone to
next semester’s tuition.

Dittman said that thecost of a technically un-
necessary semester is “deﬁnitely a consideration for
some people,” especially given the current economic
climate.

Valentine said she looks forward to “taking a
break” from course work as she spends time in la-
pan, where her future husband teaches.’ Her ultimate
plan is to start graduate school next fall and eventu-
ally work her way to a Ph.D in philosophy.

Even though these seniors are leaving W&L a
little earlier than the rest of us, they still hold fond
memories of their time here.

“The professors have been amazing,” said Valen-
tine, who also said she would miss the close friends
she has made and “even the quaint town of Lexing-
ton.” .

As he talked about people and classes that shaped
his college experience, Ivy said, “lt’s been an incred-
ible three and a half years.”

Sessions says good bye I

After forty years at Washington and Lee, Professor Laa’ Sessions prepares to retire

By Eleanor Kennedy
NEWS EDITOR

Philosophy professor Lad Ses-
sions has worn many hats during his
time at Washington and Lee. Now,
after 40 years, he’s decided to hang
up all of them. .

Sessions is teaching his last
philosophy course this tenn before
ofﬁcially retiring at the end of the
school year. '

Although many will be sad to
see him go, Sessions said he has a
simple reason for retiring this year.

“I’m older than dirt,” he said.

Sessions began teaching at W&L
40 years ago, but his interest in phi-
losophy began long before that.

Growing up in a tiny town
in South Dakota, Sessions ﬁrst
thought he wanted to be a joumal-
ist. That major lasted less than a
year, however, and he soon began
pursuing other subjects. He even-
tually settled on an English major,
but discovered philosophy in his
last two years of school.

After college, Sessions spent
two years at Columbia Univer-
sity’ Union Theological Seminary.
Although he knew that religious
orders weren’t for him, Sessions’s
interest in religion and philosophy
grew during those years. .

Sessions went on to get his
doctorate from Yale University be-
fore taking his ﬁrst teaching job at
W&L. He’s been here ever since.

Professor Emeritus Harry Pem-
berton remembers when Sessions
began his teaching career. Pem-
berton was going on sabbatical and

Dean of the College and one as an
associate dean.

ences over the past 40 years at W&L,

-Sessions has no difﬁculty naming

a

PHOTO COURTESY OF -WASHINGTON AND LEE

n€€d€d Someone *0 ﬁll his 31901 “It Philosophy professor Lad Sessions is retiring this year after
was Clear after the usual Search that 40 years of teaching. “I’m older than dirt,” said Sessions
Lad Sessions was, without a doubt, about his reason for retiring.

the best candidate,” said Pemberton.
“Fortunately, he accepted our offer
to come to W&L. I left conﬁdent the
department would thrive, and indeed
it did.”

When Pemberton returned, the
department expanded in order to
keep Sessions as part of the staff

But Sessions has done more than
just teach. He calls himself a “re-
covering administrator” because he
served two different terms as Acting

Although Sessions remembers
his years as an administrator far less
fondly than his time as a teacher, his
colleague and friend Professor Ed
Craun had high praise for Sessions’s
willingness to “step into the breach”
and take on the job. “He was a tire-
less advocate for‘the_ needs of the
college’s students, faculty members
and programs,” said Craun.

Despite his many varied experi- ‘

his favorite part of being a part of
the W&L community? “lt’s the stu-
dents," Sessions said.

Thousands of students have
passed through Sessions’s classes
over the years. Several havekept
in touch with him, including some
graduates from the late 70s and early
80s.

These relationships with students
are one of the things Sessions val-

ues most about his time as a profes-
sor. “I just hope l’ve touched a few
students,” said Sessions. He added,
however, that he doesn’t care if those
students remember he was the one
who influenced them.

“I’m more interested in the effect
than in the remembrance that it was .
me,” Sessions said.

His friend and colleague Harlan
Beckleysaid the odds are good that
Sessions will be remembered for
quite some time.

“He will be missed,” Beckley
said, though he’s sure Sessions will
stay an active member of both the
local community and the W&L com-
munity after retiring.

“Students will still see Lad Ses-
sions,” Beckley said. .

Sessions said that he is going to
spend his newfound free-time doing
projects around his house, pursuing
his interest in photography, travel-
ling, volunteering and, in a last act of
service for the students and profes-
sors at_W&L, converting his ofﬁce
into a departmental library.

The bookshelf-lined ofﬁce is al-
ready ﬁlled with endless tomes on
philosophy, but there’s likely to be at
least one addition. Sessions’s newest
book, Honor for Us: A Philosophical

‘Analysis. Interpretation and Defense

will be available in the University
Store on Dec. l(_). _

Sessions’s interest in honor,
which inspired the book, is closely
tied with his experience teaching at a
school with a strong honor system.

About ll years ago, he began
teaching a course on the concept of
honor and was surprised to ﬁnd that
many students have different inter-
pretations of the concept. He said
that people at W&L rarely think
about honor in a detailed, academic
way, and he thought book would be a
helpful way to organize his thoughts
on the subject.

The philosophy department will
be saying its goodbyes to Sessions at
a retirement party on Monday, Dec.
13 at 6 p.m. at Morris_House.

EDITOR'S NOTE: Sessions is one of several long-time professors retiring this school year. Look for more profiles in the upcoming winter term editionsof the Ring-tum Phi.

Dreaming of a white ristmas Weekend

I I Pl-IOTO COUR sv or A

   

oaizw SACKAN, c/o 200

 

iv--1 .1;

7 UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI -

    

MON DAY, DECEMBER 6,2010

 

  I Remembering the Titans at W&L

Coach Herman Boone, the coach famously portrayed by Denzel Washington, coming to speak to W&L students.

By Kirsten Kyne
STAFF WRITER

Former T.C. Williams Titans
football coach Herman Boone
will be speaking in Stackhouse
Theatre on Wednesday, Dec. 8 at
7 p.m.

Boone’s talk will focus on his
experiences ﬁghting discrimi-
nation as an African-American
high school football coach in the
19705.

Most people know Herman
Boone from Denzel Washing-
ton’s depiction of him in the Dis-
ney ﬁlm Remember the Titans.

When he took over at T.C.
Williams, Coach Boone was the
first African-American football
coach in the state of Virginia.
Three schools in Alexandria, VA
were consolidated and integrated

into T.C. in I971, and the un- I

defeated team won the Virginia
State Championship that same
year.

As shown in the ﬁlm drama-
tization, Coach Boone overcame
extreme obstacles while coach-
ing the team, He became head

The real Coach Boone, pictured here with some of his hr ‘
players, will speak to W&l students about his experi-
ences overcoming adversity and intolerance.

coach over local favorite Bill
Yoast, which caused many of

Yoast’s supporters to voice their ,

disapproval.

Since retiring, Boone has
been trying to inspire high school
and college students to improve
their lives. He travels around the
country talking about his experi-
ences and how he overcame ad-
versity.

He is also going to speak about
how hard work, teamwork and
community involvement helped
change the views of a town that
was riddled with racism.

Members of the Contact
Committee, which is sponsoring
Boone’s speech, said they hope
it will attract both students ‘and
members of the Lexington com-
munity.

The Contact Committee is
going to be screening Remember
the Titans on Mondaytand Tues-
day nights at 7 p.m. in‘ anticipa-
tion of Boone’s speech.

Evening the score
with a new sport

Alumni gift makes varsity women is golf team a reality,
bringing the total number of W&L varsity sports to 24

‘By Randi Wilson
STAFF WRITER

Next fall, women’s golf will
join the 23 varsity sports already
offered at Washington and Lee.
By 2012, it will be a fully com-
petitive Division III sport.

According to Director of
Athletics Jan Hathom, there will
be a national search for a head
coach for both golf teams in the
spring. She expects that, by early
July, the department will have
found a candidate. He or she will

' then take over the planning pro-

cess, from beginning future re-
cruitment to creating the year’s‘
schedule.

This addition is two years in
the making, spurred on by a gen-
erous donation made by alumnus
Matthew Goodwin ’_94.

' Hathom said that Goodwin,
a former soccer player, wanted
to do something signiﬁcant for
the athletics department to give
back for his time spent here.

Goodwin donated $800,000
to be spent over a period of 10
years. During this time, the uni-
versity will gradually take over
ﬁmding. By 2020, the school
will fully fund the team.

Adding women’s golf will
mean equalize the number of
men and women’s sports: twelve
each, which may leave some
wondering if it was added just
to comply with Title IX. Though
it was a contributing factor, Ha-
thom said that this decision was
motivated by more than equal
opportunity. ,

“We need to move forward,
but I always ﬁgured that golf
would be a natural add,” said
Hathom.

The decision to look at golf
seriously as a future sport began
two years ago, when W&L did

a study to examine compliance
with Title IX and which sports
should be added. It was an easy
choice because golf seemed like
a “natural ﬁt” here at W&L, Ha-
thom said.

Another motivation for a
women’s golf team was the pres-
ence of a strong women’s club
team here on ‘campus. It’s all
part of a “wise system in place,”
which makes sure that a sport
will succeed, she said.

Hathom stressed that build-
ing off of a successful club team
prevents sports from being added
because they’re “trendy” or just
satisfying a compliance issue.
Adding a sport is an expensive
enterprise and requires extensive
planning. There ﬁrst needs to be
an obvious interest in a sport,
best shown by a club team that
appears year after year.

That being said, when a sport
has been approved for varsity
status, the university does ev-
erything it can to make sure it’s
done right. They’re given all the
resources they need to succeed,
never with a half-hearted ‘be-
cause we’re supposed to’ rea-
son.

‘‘I have not experienced in
my time here any less than that,”
said Hathom.

As a result, sports succeed
here because they’re given ev-
erything they need to do well.

Even though the addition of
women’s golf has been a long
time in the making, it comes in a
big year for women on campus.
This year is the 25th anniversary
of coeducation at W&L.

In order to mark the occasion,
several alums have been invited
to come speak at events in a se-

ries entitled “Leadership Gender
and Community at Washington
& Lee,” which is headed up by
Associate Dean Allison Bell,
‘9l. ‘

A few of these alums were
student-athletes during their
time here, and spoke about the
importance of athletics in their
development as leaders, said
Bell. Their experience on the
court created a sense of confi-
dence and self-reliance that has
enabled them to succeed in their
careers in the male-dominated
ﬁeld of science.

Bell, a member of one of the
ﬁrst coed classes at W&L, said
she has noticed changes occur-
ring over the years. Women here
have relaxed into their place on
campus, and have less ofa need
to. prove themselves academi-
cally. —
“There is a comfort with co-
education, perhaps [conﬁdence
among] the women with them-
selves,” said Bell.

According to Bell, women
have been able to take their abil-
ity to succeed in the classroom
and on the ﬁeld in a matter of
course.

Regardless ofability, Hathom
encourages both men and wom-
en who are interested in playing
golf to try out for. the team next
fall. The future coach will be in
charge of the ﬁnal roster, but
next year the team will be look-
ing for all levels oftalent.

AP PHOTO

. A faculty drawn from the industry's most accomplished professionals leads a comprehensive

  
 

‘$1 NEW YORK UNIVERSITY

"55

.g

er?  
7

 

iii Estate

Strategic

   

  

0....

NYUSCHACKL -
Institute of Real Estate

 

llll.S. in Real Estate Development

 

New 15*~m0nth_ful|-time option

curriculum covering the growth areas of real estate development today: sustainable design and
land use, public-private partnerships, global development, and environmental regulations.
The program offers full- and part-time options, and can be completed in as little as 15 months.

scps.nyu.edu/359
212 998 7100

'VwESCPS

SCHOOL OF CONTINUWG AND PROFESSIONAL STUDIES

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6,2010

-3

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

opinions

Aunified Korea will not come withouta full-scale war

In light of North Korea is recent aggression against South Korea, conﬂict seems imminent

By John Paul Beall
COLUMNIST

For the past twenty years, the
world has been kidding itself
about a peaceful re-union be-
tween the two Koreas. Perhaps,
for a while, it had looked like it
would happen.

They marched into Olympic
arenas together. The focus of
North Korea’s Cult of Personal-
ity died. And as their ﬂags show,
they are both Korea: two halves
of the same whole.

But November 23, the North
Koreans began shelling a South
Korean island near the oceanic
border.

In the end, we can be conﬁ-
dent that the two Koreas will

unite, though it will be far from ,

peaceful.

The issue is that now North
Korea disputes the long-estab-
lished oceanic border, and that
demonstrates the essence of the
problem.

On both sides ofthe Demilita-
rized Zone, the people and gov-
ernments feel that union should
occur. Each side believes that it
has the legitimate government
and the legitimate ideology... and
that the other side is wrong.

But what is the origin of the
bloody armistice line that scars
this war-laden region?

After World War II, Japan lost
its empire, which for thirty-ﬁve
years had contained the Korean
Peninsula.

At the Conference of Cairo in
1943, the Big Three and Chiang
Kai-Shek agreed that the Allies
should occupy Korea to assist
in nation-building, a notion that

many Koreans did not like at the

time.

Korea was treated like occu-
pied Germany: jointly occupied
and sliced into man-made re-
gions to create a new country. In

fact, it was exactly the same idea
the the Allied forces decided to
use in the wake of World War I

_ when they dissolved the empires

around their opponents.

This “mandate”-style occu-
pation had justiﬁed English and
French interference in the Mid-
dle East, a large reason for the
troubles there today.

Both the United States and the
USSR split the area right down
the middle on the 38th parallel,
while the Korean nationalists
worked hard to assemble their
new government. The two su-
perpowers occupied the country
as agreed, and set up provisional
governments in their zones.

But soon the mutual distrust
between the two powers drove
them apart, taking the two zones
in Korea with them.

The United States developed
South Korea into the capitalist

power it is today, and the USSR
steeped North Korea in the ide-
als (or lack thereof) of Stalin’s
autocratic socialism, including
the essential “worship” of the
leader, Kim ll Sung. ‘

Essentially, foreign interfer-
ence set the countries up for a
civil war—just like the UN did
in Vietnam, which we also had to
clean up.

It seems that the world be-
lieved borders could be created
anywhere, at any time, regard-
less of a country’s organic na-
ture. The Korean War drove the
two sides further apart via Line
of Demarcation, setting the gov-
ernments up for further struggle.

Unfortunately, while many
people are conscious of history
repeating itself, they are often
naive about learning from the
mistakes that fuel the process.

Einstein once said, “The deﬁ-

nition of insanity is doing the
same thing over and over again
and expecting different results.”

So now we fast-forward
nearly sixty years to the present,
where we sit giving thanks for
America’s prosperity and stabil-
ity—amid an act of war similar
to that which started the ﬁrst Ko-
rean War.

The fact of the matter is that
there will be no peace for Korea
until there is war, because as long
as the North Korean government
remains in power, there will
be tension and unease for both
countries bordering the DMZ.

Whether or not we like it,
should war break out again, the
United Statesvbecause of its
commitment to South Korea—is
obligated at least to intervene
and ensure that the war comes to
a safe, just conclusion.

The United States needs to

Traveller founders reunite andraise money

After reuniting to commemorate its founding, the heads of Traveller look back on the program is history

By Jarrett Brotzman
COLUMNIST

On November 13, the Travel-
ler Steering Committee had the
opportunity to meet and . have
lunch with Traveller’s founders
and the families of the students

to a full-service, paid job run-
ning seven nights a week with a
two dispatch vehicles and a full
contract with Goff Transporta-
tion.

over $5,000 in commemoration
of their friends for Traveller.

At Traveller, we have greatly
enjoyed watching the program
expand over our short time here.

The deaths of Adam. and Kristin were without a doubt one of the most

painful experiences for W&L in recent history. As a university com-

munity, we never again want to experience that loss.

in whose memory the program
was founded: Kristin Shelton ’05
and Adam Burchett ’02.

From humble origins as an
unfunded, all-volunteer program
operating with geology depar-
ment vans out of what is now
Holekamp Hall, the program we
know as Traveller has expanded

At the reunion, we met Emily
Taylor ‘04‘ and Baxter Lee ‘02,
close friends of Adam and Kris-
tin and two of the founding mem-
bers of the Traveller system.

Not only did they welcome us
and share memories of their close
friends, but the group of alumni,
family and friends also raised

~

However, we felt compelled to
write something uncharacteristi-
cally somber in the typically up-
beat Christmas issue of the Phi.
The families and friends of
Kristin and Adam returned to
campus a few weeks ago to com-
memorate the tenth anniversary
of their tragic deaths and to hon-

or their memories-

Their reunion and the ongo-
ing growth of Traveller demon-
strate the memories and positive,
institutionalized legacy left be-
hind by this tragedy.

There have , not been any
deaths due to drunk driving at
Washington and Lee since their
passing, and this is no coinci-
dence. Traveller has, in large
part, ameliorated the decision
of whether or not to drive after
drinking.

As W&L students, we know
that Traveller is just one call
away. We are fortunate and privi-
leged to have a system in place
to help us get home safely, one
which was established well be-
fore we arrived here.

However, attending this re-
union reminded us why we
joined Traveller in the ﬁrst place:

to help our friends get home
safely on nights when we should
not be driving.

Unfortunately recently some
students seem to think that
Traveller is a right, rather than
a privilege. We are writing to
remind everyone that this is not
the case.

The deaths ofAdam and Kris-
tin were without a doubt one of
the most painful experiences
for W&L in recent history. As a
university community, we never
again want to experience that
loss.

Maintaining Traveller re-
quires copious amounts of time,
money and energy.

Currently, Traveller employs
nearly 60 students, a faculty ad-
visor and numerous bus drivers
with the oversight and generous
funding of the Board of Trust-

ﬁnish what it starts. While it is
uncomfortable for us to involve
ourselves in another war that
could easily have been prevent-
ed years ago, we must suffer the
repercussions of our actions and
get the job done quickly—and
well.

ees.

In just dollar terms, the sys-
tem costs over a quarter ofa mil-
lion dollars a year to operate.

That being said, we sincerely
hope that students choose to uti-
lize this awesome resource and
never forget why it came to be.

Please don’t drink and drive.

Please be responsible when
you are out.

Please watch over each other,
and please be respectful to your
fellow students on Traveller.

We hope you enjoyed Christ-
mas Weekend and have a great
break.

- The Traveller Steering Com-
mittee

Finishing with a tie at sectionals: how incredibly boring

After breaking down the subtext of both “Jersey Shore ” amd ‘ “Harry Potter, ” Pat Smith takes on a bigger beast

By Patrick Smith
c 0 L u M N IS T

No, this is not an article about
any Washington and Lee sporting
event. In fact, this tie at section-
als was not even between two
sports teams—but between two
show choirs, or ‘glee’ clubs.

I know what you’re all think-
ing: “This guy watches ‘Glee’?”
Trust me, people. It is purely out
of my dedication to professional
journalism. I take my job very
seriously and want to please all
of my fans, (Plug time—follow
me on Twitter @SimplePat).

So here it is folks: my ﬁrst
and last “Glee” article. Enjoy.

The New Directions~the
show’s glee club~are headed to

Sectionals.

After a tough third-place fin-
ish at last year’s regional touma-
ment, the New Directions have a
chip on their shoulder and some-
thing to prove.

In my expert opinion, this
season has been pretty weak
in terms of song selection. I’m
the kind of person who skips
through all the fooey mush-mush
songs because they make me feel
uncomfortable, and I’m not re-
ally into that whole Celene Dion,
“My Heart Will Go On” rubbish.
I’ve never seen Titanic, (swear-
sies) and don’t intend to.

Notable covers that received

Career Services
would like to
wish you  
good luck with exams
and  

 

Stop by and See US with
last; minute questions
before you leaoe.

a hearty two thumbs-up include
Cee-L0’s “Forget You,” more
commonly referred to as “F@$%
You,” and Train’s “Soul Sister.”

As you all know, William
McKinley High Schools New
Directions has some fresh faces
added to the mix.

A freshman football stud
named Sam joined the group
and he has an abnormally huge
mouth. No, his mouth is actually
huge. It’s efﬁng scary.

In addition, I inherently hate
him because he is dating Quinn
Fabray, the love of my life after
Hermione Granger.

Also, now that Kurt left the

  ~i.i<€%’sr““ti
,   .ff:;R$i.l.§,,/ ; e

club to transfer to an all-boys’
school, they needed to fill his
spot. Ener the newest member,
a candy-addicted girl who found
Puck in a Port-a-potty.

I’m not quite sure what the
producers were thinking with
this addition. its like signing
Donovan McNabb to a 5-year,
$100 million dollar deal. Sorry,
Redskins fans.

(I just made a sportsjoke in a
“Glee” article. Take that, Stock-
ton Bullitt.) '

The most interesting part
about this season so far is that
we are starting to hear more from
Glee members besides Finn and

 

  Creek Scialties
 & American Cuisine

K ‘SERVING
Breakfast~ Lunch~ Dinner
(Breakfast served all day!)

Tuesday-Thursday: 7AM — 9PM
Friday and Saturday: 7AM — 10PM

Sunday: 7AM — 3PM
Closed Mondays

Lunch and Dinner Specials!

I

Carry Out Available
Go Greek at Niko's!

167 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 540.464.9499
Fax: 540.464.1226

Look for menu at www.nikosgrill-cafe.com

Rachel (yuck).

We got a solo from Santana
this past week, and even Mike
Chang gave it a shot. If you’ve
ever heard the “Antelope” alarm
sound on a BlackBerry, that’s
kind of how Mike Chang sound-
ed... Can’t hate for trying?

When you tune in to “Glee”
tomorrow night on FOX, take
note of a few key issues: Skip
the lame Finn and Rachel songs,
unless that’s what you’re in to.
Notice Quinn Fabray’s hotness.
Puck is the man.

Sue Sylvester makes me
quiver in my britches. I mean,
she doesn’t even mow her lawn;

she just stands outside and dares
that grass to grow.

Most importantly, note that
Kurt’s dad is the same. dude from
Global Guts on Nickelodeon
from back in the day.

Please tell me I wasn’t the
only person who religiously
watched “Guts” and “Legends of
the Hidden Temple.”

I wanted nothing more in life
than to compete on a kid game
show and win a bike and maybe
an Nintendo 64. 50 dollars to
Chuck-E-Cheese, anyone?

Tuesday — Friday

Tuesday - Friday
Satur a an in
All Day Dinner Buffet

")"c>i;lCi.......-...

110 South lefferson Street — Lexington, VA
(Iloscd Every Monday - Beer & Winc
540-463-2002

Chinese Buffet i

Lunch Buffet: $6.99

Dinner Buffet: $9.99

Free Deliverv! — Minimum«$2S

‘liaéiﬂ

11:30 am. — 3:00 pm.

4:30 pm. — 9:30 pm.
cial: .99
11:30 am. — 9:00 pm.

Towci

lapanese Steak Houseand
Sushi Bar

Hibachi Special
Dinnerfor Two - $29.99 Shrimp or Chicken
3:30 pm. —10:00,p.m.

No Rn-<<-rvahnn l<\'qI|irvd

iiiﬁwﬁé

I’) \’ N .\ S 'F \'

 

  

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI MONDAY, DECEMBER s, 2010 L.

opinions

 

bookstore.

First, buying presents from
the bookstore is the ultimate
swindle for your parents. You
are using their money to buy
their gifts, and since they won’t
get the bill until at least Janu-
ary, you still look like the golden

apron or your recently unem-
ployed older brother a W&L
event planner.

So, here’s some quality ad-
vice as to what to buy in Lexing-
ton's version of the Short Hills
Mall.

First and foremost, for the

 ————— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY  »——————----

THE RINo=TUM,Prii.I

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

MISSION STATEMENT:

thoroughly report news
and Lee community

COPY EDITORS’

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
STOCKTON BULLITT
HOLLY SUTHERS
JAYNA JOHNS
KATHERINE ROBERTS
IVA WEIDENKELLER
JOHN PAUL BEALL
JARRETT BROTZMAN
LIZZ DYE

PAIGE GANCE

ALI GREENBERG
KIRSTEN KYNE
BURL ROLETT

ZOEY RYU

RANDI WILSON

KATIE HATFIELD
STEELE BURROW

JOE MORAVEC
ZABRIAWN SMITH
EVAN SHARBER
DAVE WILSON

It is the mission of THE

RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and

affecting the Washington
for students, faculty,

parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD,_BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI

TELEPHONE: (-540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH,|@WLU.EDU

SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Ifyou have a friend or a sib-
ling on the verge of going to
college, the bookstore has you
covered. By placing Mega-Nu-
trition, Hang-Over Relief and
Five Hour Energy shots all next
to each other, the bookstore is
giving you the perfect college
starter kit gift set to give the fu-
ture college student in your life.

For your fashion-conscious
friends, you can always delve
deep into the extensive collec-
tion of Vera Bradley in the back
of the bookstore.

gloves pointless at doing any-
thing productive once they are
being worn. Nonetheless, they
teach the younger female family
member that Division III cheer-
leading isjust as irrelevant as the
gloves they are being given.

Maybe your younger fam-
ily member is a nerd. That’s
ﬁne. I’m not here to judge, just
to help. The bookstore has a
nice set of Brain Quest America
ready for purchase.

Just be vigilant looking for it.
The bookstore placed it sensibly

been having that much fun in
college” more than a W&L bib.
Well, maybe a “World’s Best
Grandpa” hat, but you get the
point.

Guys, I recommend buying
one of the multiple ﬂasks the
bookstore has for sale. Accom-
pany the present with a little note‘
like “goes great with breakfast,”
and I’m sure all of your mom’s
fears will be put to rest.

And since you are spending
this much effort trying to keep
your parents nervous, you may

bookstore. Tucked away in the
history section of the bookstore
is a replica of a giant key to the
Bastille that was given to George
Washington in the 1790s.

Think about it: the real key
was completely pointless when
it was given to George Washing-
ton 200 years ago, and now you
have the chance to pay a premi-
um for the replica.

Gotta love Christmas.

Leggings: not pants & why tobuy Nike

ﬁred of homogenous feminine clothing choices, Ali Greenberg ‘tries to buck the trend

By All Greenberg
co LU M NIST

This is a call to arms for the
ladies of Washington and Lee.

Leggings, a constant presence
in our daily wardrobes, have
quickly gained momentum and
are very close to serious identity
theft.

Before I continue, I must ad-
mit to wearing leggings while

too have a problem.

But frankly, I’m not trying.
WE aren’t trying.

When I walked into my poli-
tics class on a recent morning,‘
seven of the nine females in the
class were _ wearing black leg-
gings tucked into a rainbow of
hunter boots—mine were laven-
der.

Is this really the best we can"
do, looking like clones as we sip
our coffee out of monogrammed
Tervis Tumblers?

Ladies, we are an army of
bland. Relying on leggings as
pants leave us just a stone’s

Plastics had it right with only
wearing jeans or sweatpants on
Fridays. But it has become ap-

parent that we must do some-
thing.

We, the people, need to liter-
ally and ﬁguratively cover our
asses if we want to claim any
legitimate style.

We have such potential; it
would be a shame to let it and
Daddy’s money go to waste.

Tempo Track’ short I saw on this
campus, I would be able to fund
a scholarship to this school in
my name.

I understand that this isn’t a
groundbreaking observation, but
it has made me seriously con-
sider putting a little Nike in my
nonexistent portfolio (WIS, are
you on this already?).

Since I own about seven pairs
and am not a runner, I guess this
is really directed at me.

Are these shorts supposed to
make me look like I actually visit
the gym, or that I train for mara-
thons in my time spent outside of

thrice rolled and can get away
with it because she has the body
of an NCAA cheerleader.

But it is undeniable that these
“srat shorts” are now part of our
uniform as W&L co-eds. Just
add in the Nike Tech Capris, and
Frank Parsons Way looks like a
24/7 Zumba class.

I think something about
wearing athletic clothes actually
trains your psyche into feeling

3 U 5 | N E5 5 M A N AG E R 5 R 0 3 G E 0 R G E writing this article. While I aim Speaking of money (and for more athletic and more ﬁt, which
M An G 0 3 5 En to bring awareness to the current lack of a better transition), if isn’t necessarily a bad thing. We
9 I 5 1- R | 3 U  I 0 N 51-A 5: I: K E |_ Ly LA N E plight of simple unoriginality, I I had a nickel for every ‘Nike all need comfort clothes, and

some of us do actually sweat in
them.

So in the end, 1 give leggings
and “srat shorts” my thanks. You
have stuck by me through 8 a.m.
classes, late nights in Leybum,
MTV Grind and even the oc-
casional kickboxing class... but
that doesn’t mean I can’t put on
a pair of real pants.

3e/zée '¢ Peetacozeet

PEDAL CAR DINER & TIN TOY CAFE
Located at

IIEE III® TRAVEL PIIAZII

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality.’

Order from our complete menu I
0r Join usfor one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets.’

Great food & a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

 

:15 I I I
Stoc kto n ’s B u I I «\\tt' Christmas at the W&L bookstore '
5 -  
\-

Strugglzng In Lexington to ﬁnd gifts for your family? Just go to the bookstore and swipe your parents ’ presents home

By Stockton Bullitt

OPINIONS EDITOR

Christmas is right around child who thought of others dur- sports fan in your family, you I would make a joke or two between a LA Times-reviewed as well save them the trouble
the comer. While for some that ing the time where thinking of . need to buy a W&L football about the selections of style in George Washington biography,a and buy them a web cam, which
means ﬁnals and eventually va— others has the highest payout per ODAC Champion hat. the bookstore, but I know fash- hardcover of Washington’s Far- is for sale on the second ﬂoor.
cations and maybe for others it present. ‘ Since that family member ion like Cleveland sports fans well Address and Washington’s They will probably be buying
means latkes and menorahs, for Furthermore, if you are a ,has probably been following the know championships. biography on tape. You know, one to secretly install in your
most of us it means one thing: ﬁrst-year, your parents and fam- team religiously on ESPN, he or Speaking of fashion, I no- when you think of Brain Quest room anyway, so by buying it 
shopping. ily are dying to hear and know she will deﬁnitely want to be as- ticed that the whole wording-on- for ten year-olds, you think of for Christmas you are doing

These are the times that re- about your life at school, and sociated with the team that ran the-ass fad has ﬁnally gone out sophisticated George Washing- them afavor.
cessions are forgotten, ATMs maybe live vicariously through through more holes than Charlie of style. I don’t know if it hap- ton biographies. Finally, there are the truly
and checkout lines face daunting you just a little bit, so getting Sheen. Plus, you might want to pened in 2007 or 2009, but I’m For the nerdy female fourth- pointless gifts that are sold out
lines, and stores like Williams them gear with this school’s keep one of the hats for your- happy that phase of popularity is grader in the family, you can in every university bookstore
Sonoma and Sharper Image ac- name on it gives them an in to self, so you can one day tell your ﬁnally over. also buy the ‘Robert E. Lee and across America.
tually have customers. the college years. grandkids of the one time you I was tired of getting death Family paper dolls book, which These all make for great

However, being a student at In other words, your younger stayed passed halftime at your stares from girls just for trying will let her spend her childhood presents for people you do not
Washington and Lee does not siblings can tell their friends college’s football game. to read strategically placed ad- harkening back to a better time care about. I mean what does a
give students many chances to of social inequality and slavery. sorority ornament really mean to
do premium Christmas shop- , _ , . _ Finally, if you have a much anyone‘?
ping_ Buyzng presents from the bookstore Is the ultzmate swindle for your yotmget cousin in ‘a part of the can you think of a relative

Unless our arents are re- . . . . . famil that ou articularl who will honestl a reciate
ally into sii/nrisepsandwiches or parentS- You are us”/lg the” money to buy the” glftsr ands”/we they loath?’ the bobkstor: has th: you more for givffig fliriam the 
cases of Natty Light, the on] , . . . . quintessential gift for you. movie “G-Force?”
real place in Lexington to shog Won tget the  untll at least January’ you Sn” look [Ike the golden Tucked away in the second These are the gifts that have
is Walmart. Since you are a col- - - - - - ﬂoor is a 24-pack of colored made conglomerated Christmas
lege student, conformity might chlzd who thought Ofalhefs dun]/lg the tlme when thlnklng ofothers Sharpie markers. Nothing will so damn wonderful.
not be your thin , so I’m guess- - give your most-hated aunt and These gifts say “I was think-
ing you are notgabout to spend has the hlghestpayout per present uncle more grief than ﬁnding ing about you this year...just not
all of your Christmas savings pink permanent marker devil that much” and are the crux of
giving money IO Arkansas’ VBI"-  l'l01'I]S O11 lIl'l€lI‘  portrait the the garbage II’ld11SII'y in the WCCK
sion of “the Man.” " week after Christmas. before New Year’s.'

Yes, you can do online shop- how cool college life is now On the other hand, if the vertising. Mostly though, I’m When giving your parents This year, the bookstore has
ping or simply wait until the that they have their new W&L sports fan in your life is instead happy that all those shorts are presents, the best thing to do is two prime throwaway gifts that
week before Christmas. I used sweatshirts, and your much- your ex-boyfriend, you probably ﬁnally where they belong: in to keep them on their toes. are sure to mean nothing to any-
these strategies I used last year, older uncle can tell all his work want to go with a T-shirt from Africa, helping illiterate teenage These are the college years. body. .
but let me tell you, my sister was buddies how close he is to his one ofthe different sports teams. boys learn how to read, one ado- Youjust spent four years in high First up is “The Art of Corre-
not happy with her oversized frat-star nephew now that he has Think maybe lacrosse or basket- lescent girl at a time. school trying to get your parents spondence,” which is a fascinat-
hoodie and matching excuse a new W&L grilling spatula. ball. For the much younger fam- angry and worried without near- ing book about how to write the
about Amazon being out of her Now that you are undoubt- That way, when he asks you ily members in your life, the ly enough success. Now that you proper handwritten letter. Just
size. _ edly in the bookstore with your why you are giving him a T-shirt bookstore has a wide range of live away from home, hopefully like learning how to blacksmith

Instead of turning to ques- swipe card in hand, what should from a random sports team at choices. you are ready to step up your or ﬁx atypewriter, learning how
tionable mediums of shopping, you buy? your school, you can respond, First, for the younger girl, the game. to write the perfect handwrit-
just follow my valuable advice: There is a plethora ofchoices “Well, I hooked up with the bookstore has these nice little Girls, if you aren’t shopping ten letter is an important skill to
use the bookstore to buy all of in the bookstore, but it is very_ captain of the team, and he had gloves that have little pompoms for your dad’s present in the learn if you want to live only in
your presents for_ the holiday important to use caution when a much better offensive perfor- at the end of each ﬁnger. baby section of the bookstore, the past.
season. purchasing items. You do’ not mance than you did, so I thought I know you might be think- you obviously have no worth- The second throwaway gift is

Here’s the logic behind doing want to give your feminist aunt you could use some- future mo- ing that having pompoms at the while sense of humor. quite possibly my favorite thing
your Christmas shopping at the a ﬁnely printed W&L cooking tivation.” errd ofthe ﬁnger might make the Nothing says, “yeah, I’ve that I have ever found in the ,.

s OULD BE ADDR ssED To THE EDITORS A ' - ' _ _
H p 5 E MEDIA T throw away from looking like the Huntley reading room‘? Friday Night Seafood Buffet 5pm_10pm .

PHI@WLU EDU OR To TH BOARD AT our state school eers down Are the reall an different

MEDIABoARD@wLU.EDu. THE MEDIA BOARD th d (C Ft’) 1. th th 1 . Y ,7 Y Y Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5prn-1opm
is AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL e roa. an you e ieve ey an eggings. . . _

OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL actually wear non-Juicy sweat- What do “srat shorts” mean Sunqay Baked Chicken’ Pork Loin‘ & PotROaSt11am 9pm

MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE wAsI—IIA/Grow & , ants to Classm) to me,) Friday 8: Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 11pm-2am

LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN p I  . ‘ . ' Breakfast Bar7DaysaWeek 6am_11am

CONE/DENT/A1__ THE R/NG.TUM PHI WELCOMES W&L prides ~1tS€ll on IIS I-guess I wear them because D tl H tC t B 12N n 10 m I,
ALL LETTERS- WE RESERVE-THE RIGHT TO ED/T southern heritage and its preppy they are comfortable and do look D tl guy 08 |0:n&ryF ‘?trB $8 36 P10

SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH. ~- - aiy oup, aa , rui ar 2 am- pm

LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY tSr?C:ir1yt1:?]:jbI:t()rV:eSl:(§)kStl::)S/ 51:‘: gggilslisthan some other athletlc I

REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI ~ y

STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER oBsERvEs CURRENT days. And don’t even get me I think we can all agree it’s Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day’ 7 days a week‘
COURT DEF”"’TT’HO&f":I?,; LT’UB,5LP:‘/;’D OB5CEN’TY' started on “jeggings.” good we collectively got over I81&I64 E j 195 2516N rthL H L _ VA

- . . . . _ _ , t ’ _, ’
UNIVERSWY COMMONS ROOM_ 341 So what can we do? Limiting the Soffees trend in 7th grade, X1 0 68 Wy exington
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY our use could be a good start; except for my cousin the NCAA 540-463-3478
I-EXWGTONI V'RG'N"‘ 24450 maybe Regina George and the cheerleader, who stillwears them .

 

 

F‘ as  

I A P A R T M E N T S
I NOT Affiliated with Washington & Lee University

      ()PEN House
Saturday 12/18, 10am-5pm
Sunday12/19, 12-4pm N

 
  

 
  
   

Special
Leasing

i

._z‘

Incentives

W.
,- DIN:Ne V
n M  ‘ - J

 

A      I
' Sign NOW and Choose from y   
a cornucopia of Prizes: ‘ L   

‘A’ Laptop '
'* 42" Flatscreen TV
awry VideoGame System
* Furniture %  
* IPad A
‘Ir Food Coupons
* Custom Painting L   L A 
at Outdoor Furniture     ‘

NOW LEASING

High Speed Wireless Internet

New Heat & Air Conditioning
Water with Washer & Dryer

Renovated Kitchens and Baths

ALL INCLUDED SECOND
F L00 R I

Townhome Style Apartments
On Nelson Street
 E N  ‘§.~_g.g5gA_5g_gx_AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAV

  

540-464-3673  2 & 4 BR UNITS    ,,  
ian@tbmcom.com 3% AVAILABLE E N   M
‘ ‘i'1vv‘:'vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvwk THE BU“-°"“‘3 MANAEEMENT 3'3

l___

 

 

GENERALS’ RETREAT . .

    

6 ' THE RING-TUM PHI '

MONDAY,

DECEMBER 6, 2010

arts&Iife

 

  Students cook for peers, professors

Members of SAIL prepare Italian and Greek dishes for members of the W&L community at the International House

By Zoey Ryu
STAFF WRITER

The Student Association for
International Learning, also
known as SAIL, and the Interna-
tional House sponsored a cook-
ing night on Saturday, Dec. 3 for
all students and faculty members
who were interested in learning a
few recipes for their next home-
cooked meal.

First-years Allie Weiss and
Sarah Streeper, who share cu-
linary interests, volunteered to
teach guests how to make Four
Cheese Baked Penne Pasta and
Tabbouleh Salad. The dishes
were served with fresh garlic
bread.

Several Washington and Lee
students and faculty members
from various departments joined
the two chefs in cooking. Each
person received a task such as
chopping, sauteeing and mixing.

As the delicious smell and
warm aroma ofthe melted cheese
and garlic from the International
House kitchen permeated the
house, the students made con-
nections beyond the classroom.

The dinner took an hour and
a half to cook. Once the timer in
the oven beeped, everyone gath-
ered around the dining table, ate
and conversed overia large fam-

ily-style dinner.

This culinary night concen-
trated not only on teaching new
recipes, but on promoting inter-
action among members of the
W&L community. Sometimes a
night spent with people around
_a table of warm food is the
best way to relieve the stress of
dreaded midterms. For the next

event, be sure to reserve a space '

for yourselfand friends under the
title “SAIL Cooking Lesson.”

chopped

o _ 3 Tbs olive oil

U1-hulls)

- 1 ‘/2 cups boiling water
-' 2 medium tomatoes, seeded and diced
- 1 cucumber, peeled and seeded and

Tabbouleh Salad

Servesl6

- 1 cup Heartland bulgur wheat

I

- ‘/2 cup diced red onion
- 2 cups parsley, chopped
- 1/3' cup ﬁnely chopped mint

- ‘/1 cup lemon juice
- 1 tsp grated lemon zest
- 1 tsp ground cumin

1. Place wheatlinto alarge heat—proof bowl, add boiling water and cover

with plastic wrap for 15 minutes.

. Drain excess water, if there is any.

. Add tomatoes, cucumber, onion, parsley, and mint.
. In a small bowl, combine olive oil, lemon juice, lemon zest, and cumin.
. Pour dressinq over salad and mix.

- 2 tsp olive oil

- . 1 lb penne

says).

from heat.

- 1 medium onion, diced

- 4 cloves minced garlic _

- 1 15 ounce can of crushed tomatoes
- 1 8 ounce can of tomato sauce

- 1 tsp dried oregano .

- ‘/4 cup chopped basil

- 1 tsp dried rosemary

- _ 1 cup ricotta cheese
- 1 ‘/4 cups mozzarella

4-Cheese Baked Penne

Serves 6

- ‘/2 tsp crushed red pepper (chili ﬂakes)
- ‘ 1 ‘/2 cups small-curd cottage cheese

. - _ ‘/4 cup parmesan cheese

1. Sautee onion and garlic inolive oil.

2. Add crushed tomatoes, tomatosauce, dried oregano, rosemary, and
red pepper. Let "simmer. V

3. In a bowl, combine cottage cheese, ricotta, ‘/2 cup of mozzarella.

4. Cook penne al dente (about a minute or two less than the package

5. Incorporate the cheese mixture into the tomato mixture, remove pan

6. Add penne to the pain.
7. Transfer pasta from pan to a 9x13” dish, top with basil, Parmesan, and

remaining mozzarella. ' I
I8.‘ Cook for 30 minutes at 350 degrees.

 

Six days of procrastination

Looking for ways to put oﬂ studying? Attend one of the many upcoming campus events

By Holly Suthers
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

If you need a study break or
just want to partake in the holiday
cheer, here is a list of upcoming

events for the next week:

Tuesday, Dec. 7

Holiday Concert 11 featur-
ing Glee Club, Cantatrici, Wind.
Strings and Jazz—7 p.m., Con-
cert Hall, Wilson Hall.

*Tickets are free, but required.
Visit the Box Ofﬁce weekdays
from 9-1] a.m. and 2-4 p.m., or

Professors compete for best dancer  

contact the Box Ofﬁce at 540-
458-8000 -
Wednesday, Dec. 8
Holiday Dinner in the Mar-

vketplace—Come partake in the

holiday cheer over delicious
food! $15.00 per person, 5:00-
7:15pm, Marketplace, Elrod
Commons.

Coach from Remember the
Titans speaks at W&L—Contact
presents Coach Herman Boone,

the football coach featured in
Remember the Titans, at 7 p.m.,
Stackhouse Theatre, Elrod Com-
mons. _

W&L Dancers CREATE...
—W&L Repertory Dance Com-
pany is featuring a mix of dance
styles danced by, choreographed
by. and designed by W&L stu-
dents. It is at 7:30 p.m., Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

Thursday, December 9

W&L Dancers CREATE...
—7:3‘0 p.m., Keller Theatre,
Lenfest Center _

Christmas Candlelight Ser-
vice.‘ A Festival 0fNine Lessons
and C arols—8 p.m., Lee Chapel

Friday, December 10

Dancing with the Pro es-
sors——W&L student dancers are
teaming up with professors to
put on the university’s own ver-
sion of“Dancing with the Stars.”

Come watch and vote on the

best dancing duo! It is at 6 p.m.,

Keller Theatre, Lenfest Center
Saturday, December 11
Twelfth Night—W&L Shake-

son Theatre, Lenfest Center.
Fun fact: Twelfth Night will be
performed on the twelfth of the
twelfth month!

speare Society presents its third ~ ~

full—length production: William
Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night. It
is at 7 p.m., Johnson Theatre,
Lenfest Center
Sunday, December 12
Twelfth Night—3 p.m., John-

W&L professors and students will dance the night away on Friday as they compete in --“Dancing with the Professors”

By Holly Suthers
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

“Dancing with the Stars”
comes to Washington and Lee
in its own rendition of “Danc-
ing with the Professors.” W&L
dancers are hosting the event on
Friday, December 10 at 6 p.m. in
the Keller Theatre in the Lenfest
Center. Professors will be danc-
ing with other professors or with
dance students as they compete
for the championship.

Proceeds from the event
will help fund the W&L dance
group’s attendance to the Ameri-
can College Dance Festival.
Students have attended the con-
ference for several years, which
offers the opportunity to study
with professional dancers and
choreographers. The university
has funded the program in the
past, but decided to cut the funds
allotted to the trip this year.

Money will be raised as votes
for the favored dance duo, either
in cash or by swiping it home.
The organization will have a

swipe machine and drop buckets

for money in the Commons from
Tuesday through Thursday of
this week, as well as the opportu-
nity to vote at the W&L Reperto-
ry’s Concert on Wednesday and
Thursday. Student organizers
and professors alike encourage
all students to take a study break
on Friday to attend the event for
a good cause and for quality ven-
tertainment.

Participating dancers Profes-
sors Harlan Beckley and George
Bent answered questions about
their expectations, concerns and
goals for Friday night:

Phi: Why did you decide to
participate in “Dancing with the
Professors?”

Beckley: I was invited to par-
ticipate by two persuasive stu-
dents.

Bent: It’s a good cause and I
want to support the Arts at W&L.
Plus, I get to dance with Burr
Datz. I couldn’t pass up that op-

portunity.

Phi: Do you have any previ-
ous dancing experience?

Beckley: None whatsoever. I
tried to get out of it, but Stepha-
nie Brown was relentless.

Bent: I have attended FD
[Fancy Dress] for ﬁfteen years.
Does that count?

Phi: Do you have any con-
cerns about the competition?

Beckley: Making a fool
of myself, but I feel pro‘-
tected by two superb danc-
ers: Rachel Alexander and
Stephanie Brown.

Bent: What to do about
all those sequins.

g Phi: What is your fa-
vorite dance style?

Beckley: This question
is too complicated for an
novice like me to answer.

Bent: I love to moon-
walk.

Phi: Do you have any
secret dance moves that

you are going to use?

Beckley: That’s a surprise
that I cannot reveal at this time.

Bent: Are you kidding? All
my dance moves are secretAes-
pecially the Hurricane Hand-
stand. Oh wait, did Ijust say that
out loud?

Phi: How have you been prac-
ticing for the competition? If so,

what do your rehearsals entail?

Beckley: Yes, Stephanie and
Rachel are excellent choreogra-
phers and grueling taskmasters
striving for excellence.

Bent: Rehearsals are lots of
sweating, groaning and untan-
gling oflimbs. Oh, and Burr and
I giggle a lot.

Phi: Which professor will be
the toughest competitor?

Beckley: I am totally intimi-

dated by Burr Datz. _

Bent: Tammy Futrell scares
the crap out ofme. Always has.

Phi: How will you celebrate
if you win?

, Beckley: My wife and I hope
to take Rachel and Stephanieto
dinner.

Bent: Lots of chest-pounding
and ﬁnger-pointing, mostly in the
direction ofTammy Futrell.

New Student Townhouses for Rent

3 bedrooms, spacious kitchen, walk in pantry, living room, two full

baths w/ ceramic tile floors, carpeted bedrooms,'storage units,

one car garage w/ opener/ washer/dryer hook-up, central heat &

air, on site manager and maintenance staff/ groundskeeper, and

snow removal.

S 1000.00 a month

Call Hunt Ridge Apts/Saddlebrook Ridge

Located behind Walmart

540-462-3785

V!

O

 

 

     
 

  WASHINGTON AND LEE  
I ‘t’ UNI T/E RSITY STORE 9;’

UNDERGRADUATE & LAW STUDENTS

Do YOU WANT

CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS?
T Fz'm'5/yea’ exams? Before beadzﬁg I/.20/ﬁe,
brzﬁg your books Z0 ibe B 002% Bu )/ 17d ck being /ye/cl in the

IE/rod Commons Atrium.’  

CASH for your books!

(up to 50% of value of. book)

     
     
    

     

1 help your school provide ,
more used, lower-priced books for the next term!

 
    

Book Buyback will take place in the Elrod Commons Atrium for 10 days!

Thursday & Friday, Dec. 9 & 10 . . . . . . 9 — 6

       

Saturday & Sunday, Dec. 11 & 12 . . . . . . 10 — 4
Monday thru Friday, Dec. 13 — 17 . . . . . . 9 + 6
Saturday,‘ Dec. 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 — 5:30

 
 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY SToRE A

”%* ANNUAL THANK YOU *§*  
    HOLIDAY SALE

In time for that special holiday gift!

Friday Sat. & Sun. ‘ Monday - Friday
Dec. 10”‘ L Dec. 11”‘ & 121‘ Dec. 13”‘ - 17”“
_ 8'a.m. — 7 p.m. 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. 8 a.m. — 7 p.m.
C

10% OFF
ENTIRE STORE  

(except textbooks, sundries, some technology, Vera Bradley current patterns and selected items)

a 50”/0 - 750/0 OFF ,
SPECIALLY SELECTED ITEMS
Free gzfz‘ wrapping.’

Sale applies only to purchases in the store

 

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2010

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

 

sports

ondeck

Fm

Mon Tues WED Tnuns SAT Sun
Football
; Fleld
1 Hockey
at at
aagfentfaii F°'""" °“‘"°"’
7p.m. 7p.m.
lVlIomen's
"basketball
I
1
l
Volleyball
Southern
Wrestllng . Virginia
7p.m.
Men's
Swlmmlnﬁ
‘Women's
Swlmmlng

in the numbelrs

The number of interceptions thrown by Indianapolis Colts’ quarterback
Peyton Manning in a double overtime loss to the Dallas Cowboys, 38-
35. Two of the interceptions were returned to touchdowns, and a third

set up the Cowboys for their game—winning field goal. Manning has

now thrown 11 interceptions in a three—week span.

11,22

The respective rankings of the University of Oregon‘ and Auburn Uni-

versity in the 2010 Preseason AP Poll. The two teams, now ranked 2

and 1, will face off in the BCS Championship game this January. This
year marks the first time in BCS history that neither team in the title
game was ranked in the AP Top—1O to begin the season. It is also both

team's first trip to the Championship game.

$ 51 Million

The minimum amount of money the New York Yankees settled on with
shortstop Derek Jeter. The three year contract comes out to about $17
million but, as huge as that number is, it comes to almost $2 million
less than he had been earning. With options and benefits, however,_

Jeter could come out with upwards of $68 million for the three years.

soapbox

“Tiger Woods is set to move into his $50 million
Florida mansion, which also boasts a boathouse,
golf training studio, guest house, tennis court,
gym, diving pool, lap lane, golf course and boat
docks. One thing it probably doesn't have: a ﬁre
hydrant anywhere close to the driveway.”

Dwight Perry, a writer for the Seattle Times, references the hydrant
into which Woods crashed over a year ago in an event that marked
the beginning of his fall from grace with his fans and the general
public. I

“Absolutely bat* * * * crazy.”

A rival general manager reacts to the news about Jayson Werth’s
signing a seven-year contract with the Nationals. The contract was for
an incredible $126 million, an average of $18 million per season.

Stron

Previously undefeated asketball loses in a thriller against Randolph College V

By Kirsten Kyne
STAFF warren

The Generals’ men’s basketball
team fell to Randolph College on
Saturday 68-66, ending its ﬁve-
game winning streak.’The Ran-
dolph WildCats scored the game-
winning basket with just under ﬁve
seconds remaining in the game
when sophomore Colton Hunt hit
a jump shot from the right corner.

»The score had been tied with forty

seconds left after Generals senior
Jason Cimino made one of his two
free throws of the game.

The Generals had led the Wild-
Cats for most of the ﬁrst half, but
the score lead went back and forth
11 times throughout the ‘second
half, with the Wildcats leading
when time ran out. The score tied
up ﬁve times during the second
half as they were exchanging leads.
The Generals’ highest lead was by
11 points in the ﬁrst half.

The WildCats had a higher
shooting percentage from the ﬂoor
(46.2 to the Generals’ 44.1), but

W&L start

the Generals had more rebounds
(38-28). Despite the defensive
superiority the Generals showed,
they were unable to make as many
shots and went 9-for-14 from the
free throw line.

The Generals ’ scoring was led by
junior Jon Guest with 12 points and
6-for-10 shooting with sophomore
Jeremy Adkins following close be-
hind with 11 points. Cimino tallied
4 points for the Generals. ‘

Despite Saturday’s loss, the

. Generals won their ﬁrst ﬁve games,

including a conference win over
Roanoke last Wednesday. Sopho-
more Taylor Gilﬁllan led W&L to
a 75-63 win with a career high 13
points. Adkins hit a three-pointer
with 5:57 left to play which began
the Generals’) 13-2 run in the last
six minutes of the game.

Last year, the Generals lost a
heartbreaker to the Maroons in a
60-59 loss when a Roanoke player
made one of two free throws with

just over ﬁve seconds left in the
game. This year’s win over the
Maroons was much more satisfy-
ing than last year’s.

In the Generals’ third win of the
season over Averett University on
Nov. 27, sophomore Hans Harris

led the Generals in points with 20 ,

points and was 6-for-8‘from the 3-
pointer mark.

Over the past six games, there
have been four different lead scor-
ers, including sophomore J.D. Ey
in the Haverford and Swarthmore
games at the Equinox Classic. Ad-
kins currently leads the team in
scoring. with 63 points on the sea-
son but Ey is well ahead of the rest
of the team in rebounds with 51
(19 offense, 32 defense).

The Generals play again on
Monday night at Ferrum, and on
Wednesday night against the Guil-
ford Quakers at the Warner Center,
at 7 pm.

Wrestling dominates  

Despite a rough ﬁnish Saturday, W&L starts season impressively

By Lizz Dye
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s wrestling
team has had a spectacular season
so far.

At the W&L Fall Classic the Sat-
urday after Thanksgiving, the Gen-
erals faced East Tennessee State
and the Virginia Military Institute.
The team went 16-1 on that day;
the only loss came when two W&L
athletes wrestled each other. In that
match, ﬁrst-year HT Kochinian de-
feated sophomore Brian Ross.

First-year Brandon Stueben
improved his record to 5-2 with

5 pins, and Jordan Yost leads the
team with a perfect 6-0 record for
the season.

Three W&L wrestlers have been
included in the last three weekly
national rankings, which can be
found at d3wrestle. com, including
junior David Dennis, senior Keith
J aworski and ﬁrst-year Jordan Yost.
Yost also became W&L’s ﬁrst-ever
Ursinus Fall Brawl Champion,
as he was undefeated 4-0 at 197
pounds. Jaworski defeated TCNJ’s
#9 nationally ranked Kyle Packard

to advance to the ﬁnals of the Fall
Brawl and come in second. First-
year Eric Fessel also took second.
This was the ﬁrst time ever, that
W&L had three wrestlers in the ﬁ-
nals of this Fall Brawl.

Assistant Coach Mike Bennett
said that “we have an outstanding
young team that looks like they will
change the nature of our program
for a long time.” This is also Head
Coach Gary Franke’s 38th and ﬁ-
nal season with the Generals.

Season ends for football

Post-season awards roll in for Generals football players and coach

By Burl Rolett
STAFF WRITER ‘

The Generals’ football season
ended last Saturday, but it won’t
soon be forgotten.

Washington and Lee (8-3, 6-0),
notched the school’s ﬁrst undefeat-
ed ODAC season on their way to
a berth in the NCAA Division III
playoffs.

Senior and team captain Greg
Kurkis said, “The success we ex-
perienced this season was a prod-
uct of our offensive and defensive
units consistently playing physical,
disciplined football and making big
plays in crucial situations.”

Consistency was the staple of
W&L’s offense this season, which
scored at least 35 points in all six
conference games. The Generals
rushed 3,955 yards this season for
an ODAC record, and routinely put
together long scoringdrives.

An impressive number of eleven
Generals earned ODAC All-Con-
ference recognition for having out-
standing individual seasons.

On the offensive side of the
ball, Kurkis, an offensive lineman,

pulled in two big honors: he was
chosen to thelst team All-ODAC
and, for the second consecutive
year, named an Academic All-
American.

Junior offensive lineman John
Fitzgibbons also made lst team
All-ODAC, as did running backs
Luke Heinsohn, a sophomore, and
Harrison Hudson, another junior.
Heinsohn led the conference with
1,321 rushing yards for the sea-
son.

Junior quarterback Charlie
Westfal and senior tight end Pat-
rick Conley were named to the
All-ODAC 2nd team. First-year
Connor Hollenbeck received an
All-Conference honorable men-
tion.

Hollenbeck was the only fresh-
man from any school to receive
All-ODAC recognition.

The defense also had several
players earn All-Conference hon-
ors. Sophomore defensive back
Jake Pelton, wholed the confer-
ence with six interceptions for the

season, made the All-ODAC lst
team. Linebacker Jesse Jenkins,

also a sophomore, was named to '

the 2nd team, and junior defensive
back John Kavanagh received an
honorable mention.

Head Coach Frank Miriello was
named the ODAC Coach of the
Year after leading the Generals to
their second conference champi-
onship in the past ﬁve years. Miri-
ello became W&L’s all-time win-
ningest head football coach on Oct.
2, passing his predecessor Gary
Fallon with a victory at Guilford.

Looking ahead, the Generals
will return nine offensive start-
ers and over half of the starting
defense next season. Greg Kuris
added, “The amount of experience
and depth the program will be re-
turning next year should lead to
an exciting 2011 season for W&L
football.”

0

it

 

