 

 

  

.  1 ii . .  8.  ‘-.mM'»'*~"“"
' . =A_ y-A 9‘-4”‘

‘.f‘ cw

J -:“‘:53

THou sHAlr HAVE NO
OTHER GO_dS DEFORE

ME

What women
really want

®

K

U112 ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

as as
VOLUME 95', No.48’

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

it

You’re outta here!

Photo by Chick in the Flak Jacket, The Ring—tum Phi’

By MiA WALLACE
Twist Champion of the Phi Staff

In an unprecedented action, the
Washington and Lee University Board
of Trustees announced yesterday that
they have “changed [their] minds” about
choosing John W. Elrod as University
president. John Wilson’s replacement
will be none other than “Sexpert”
Suzi Landolphi.

In a press release the trustees ex-
plained this unexpected change of plans.

“Washington and Lee students are
concerned with the relationship between
themselves and the administration. They
believe their student autonomy is being
threatened. We want them to know that

. we understand theirGeneration X angst.
We want the students to know that we’re
in touch, that we’re...how do you
say...cool cats. With this in mind,
Landolphi seemed the ideal choice. She
loves them crazy kids.”

 

Washington and Lee’s Executive Committee introduced the new mass honor trial in
Lee Chapel Thursday. All students were instructed to stand while the charges
against them were read by special guest prosecutor, Bob Tompkins. After booting
all the students suspected of committing a honor violation, Tompkins was found
guilty of misuse of fund and a cocky attitude. His diploma was revoked. Current

Landolphi’s acceptance speech was
originally scheduled to be held at Lee
Chapel, but in a nod to the affection
W&Lstudents have for tradition, moved
her appearance to Evans Dining Hall at
the last minute. Landolphi stated that it
was “way cool” to have the honor of

“lots of plans” for Washington and
Lee. Landolphi plans to officially
change Michelle Richardson’s title to
Dean of Fun so students won’t have to
learn her proper title. She then hopes to
team up with Richardson to start a
series of Condom Coffeehouses.
Landolphi has already begun plans to
convert Lee’s former office in the base-
ment of Lee Chapel to a branch of
her chain of stores condom
stores, Condomania.

The response of Washington and
Lee students has varied. Although
Evans Dining Hall was packed with
students eager to hear Landolphi’s ac-
ceptance speech, some students were
unhappy with the announcement. When
asked his opinion about the Landolphi
presidency, Spectator editor Allen
Gillespie said, “What? No, no, it can’t
be. Tell me you’re kidding.”

In an interview with the Phi, Elrod
stated that he was “fine with
Landolphi’s taking the job.” Elrod has
chosen not to return to his previous
position as Dean of the College. He
instead plans to take over the presi-
dency of Southern Virginia College for
Women in a glorious and bloodless
coup d’ etat. Elrod says that working at
SVCW will be a pleasant change

APRIL 1, 1995

Elrod nomination
retracted, Landolphi
new W&L president

he explained, “Mimi and I can just
relax and ride horses.”

Elrod does, however, have more
plans than just horseback riding. He
says that the first item on his agenda is
to officially change the name of the
school to Sem. Elrod said, “Sem will fit
much better on sweatshirts than South-
em Virginia College for Women. Be-
sides, it’s shorter and our students will
have a much easier time remembering
it, plus by the time they graduate most
should be able to spell it.”

The trustees have accepted Elrod’s
resignation and have already announced
his replacement as Dean of the Col-
lege. Paul “Pee-Wee Herman” Reubens
will take Elrod’s office at the begin-
ning of next year’s school year.

When asked by the Phi to comment
on his new position, Herman answered,
“I know you are, but what am I?”

Herman also expressed excitemen‘
to be reunited with an old friend from
the time he was in jail. In a completely
unrelated story, the mere mention of

. which demonstrates questionable jour-

nalistic integrity, Herman andPhi con-
vict/Executive Editor Dan Odenwald
were cellmates.

Said Herman, “Coming to Lexing-
ton will give Dan and me a chance to

q freshman EC rep Z. Taylor Shultz said he hopes to fill Tompkin’s shoes someday. holding an ofﬁce originally held by

Plagues hit Lex, arrest of Christ
last fall term believed to be cause

By DAUGHTER or A PREACHER MAN
Phi Member Who Fears God

The water fountains and bathroom sinks at
the Lexington Police Department were emit-
ting a red substance one police officer said was
“blood” yesterday in the fourth of a series of
possibly related incidents which began last fall.

“Honey, y’all know we just can’t drink
blood,” said chief of police and friend to women
everywhere Bruce Beard. “It doesn’t get your
hands real clean, either, you know what I mean?”

The incident occurs several days after swarms
of unidentified ﬂying and hopping insects filled
the cells and offices of the police station. A
convict who was arrested in a completely unre-
lated incident, said the insects ate all his deli-
cious prison food.

“It was bad enough when they locked me up
with that horrible scary person, Dan Odenwald,
but then the locusts ate my eggs,” said Jeffrey
Dahmer. “I mean, a man’s gotta eat, you
know?”

It was unclear whether or not Dahmer actu-
ally enjoyed the bloody water.

Police analysts, working closely with Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus Pat Robertson, say
these incidents may be linked to last fall’s arrest

‘of “Eric” Christ.

In a completely unrelated aspect of this
story, Christ spent the night in jail with Dan
Odenwald, future Phi Executive Editor and
butt of Prof. Jennings’ jokes.

“I guess it goes to show that you shouldn’t
mess around with our Lord,” said Robertson,
who added that he would be asking for funds on
his weekly television broadcast to restore the

“Hall o’Pedestrian Safety Plaques” which was
mostly destroyed by the-insects when they built
nests among them.

Goatee said he was unsure about what steps
to take.

“I mean, honey, in Egypt and all, I would
have just let the people go,” said Mustache.
“But, honey, I don’t have any slaves, and I’ve
gone to confession and all.”

A local minister called the incident
“plagues.”

“It’s all there in the Word,” he said. He cited
the recent incident in which all the power was
cut off to the entire city of Lexington, except the
Sigma Nu fraternity house and the Graham-
Lees dormitory, for three days. “Read your

I->See ARREST, pg. 2

Trustees vote
to force ALL to

live on campus

By NELSON M. QUIRKE
Phi Staff Writer

Starting next fall, all Washington
and Lee students will be required to
live in university housing full time.

W&L’s Board of Trustees passed
the universal housing requirement ear-
lierthis afternoon byaunanimousvote,
then stamped their feet all at the same
time, causing serious structural dam-
age to the foundation of the James G.
Leyburn Library. Dennis Manning,
who will fill the newly created position
of Czar of Freshman, Sophomore, Jun-
ior, Senior, Law School, Hill Dogs and
Residence Life, said the requirement
will take effect beginning next year.

The policy will destroy the local

Robert E._‘.,¥’,.ee. She said that she has

of pace.
“No more whining about tradition!”

catch up on old times. Old? That’s the
secret word!”

Suzi Landolphi: Hot, Sexy, and President

The Ring-tum Phi booted
from campus after 97 years
for violation of White Book

Bob Tompkins.
, By, THE GIMP “However, they broke the rules and they
Phi “ Crippled Phat” Boy must Pay},

The Executive Committee forced The

In addition to closing the Phi, Webb
kicked all current members out of school.

 

Ni’ 1 t t k d .11 fr Ring-tum Phi to stop publishing after this Dan Odenwald was the only staff mem-
ma es 3 e m‘‘.’ at an W1 lee "3 issue forviolatingsection OPPKIBHJKYof ber Who Could bo r€3Ch€d- This reporter
rerital. SP.aCes 1'? nearly every. case the White Book by reporting on the mass spoke to him in Lexington City Jail. He was
bliilldmgm I‘e"11.ngt.°“f' Frateﬁnlgy men honor trial held in Lee Chapel Thursday. there on an unrelated charge. He said he
W‘ commueto New men" y °“Se.S’ Phi Executive Editor Sarah Gilbert , was plans to appeal the EC’s decision
but the Board of Trustees also unanlié quoted as Saying ’ “The R,-ng_mm What? Section OPPKIBHJKY of the white

I "‘°“S]y "°'°d ”.“"’i‘°3' "".‘s"";‘,’y]°°“ I've never heard of any such publication.” Book says that no campus publication can
foriq tcgalgelin G%llil:8SNilEllci£eate EC president Kevin webb said he regret- publish any details of honor proceedings.

more uniﬁed houﬁiirfg) exiiaerience ted forcing the Phi off campus. Since the Phi published a list of the stu-
A Hunka- Hunka Burnin’ Sarcasm a . . ' “I’m sony to see them go, especially dents removed from school, the charges
‘  :gI;‘ij:1et‘l:’e?lg:1nei:lr:S‘:l{zSiat‘ig()r$)(zli's since they did such a good job exposing the ahgainst thtlaini and the name: of thelir pets,
This week saw the release of the Brian ‘The King" Richardson Com- decided“) suppressthe Students, inde_ misuse of funds by former BC President t ere was itt e question 0 t eir gui t.
«\ memorative Plate. The Franklin Mint commissioned the plate due to the pendence that has made W&Lfamous.”

massive requests by J201 students seeking recognition for the professor
who taught them everything they know about writing. The campaign

is was spearheaded by Linda McCormack, Ernest Hudson, and “Skeet”
Thrasher.

Because there is not enough hous-

ingforallstudentscurrentlyavailable, ‘I wanna do Catherine Robb.

“See H0USING»Page2 -- Fllcx Christensen. future Phi Opinion Editor

 

 

The Nation

 

Gephardt questioned

Police brought Sen. Dick Gephardt in to be questioned for the Gingrich
tattooing incident. Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich woke up on
Monday morning to ﬁnd that the inside of his right thigh had been tattooed
with the expression Straight But Not Narrow.

Jackson haunted by father-
in-law’s ghost

Earlier this week Michael Jackson left his Los Angeles home and
travelled to Graceland. Jackson made the trip so that he could make peace
with his father in law. Jackson claims that Elvis Presley has been haunting
him since his 1994 wedding to Lisa Marie Presley.

The Trial

Kaelin to star in new video

Brian “Kato” Kaelin, of O.J. Simpson trial fame, has landed the leading
role in the Executive Committee’s new freshmen orientation honor system
video. Kaelin is hoping that this, along with his recurring host position on
Talk Soup, will lead to roles on such quality television series as The
Simpsons.

O.J. out of retirement?

Following Michael Jordan’s lead, former football and court room
drama star O.J. Simpson has made a bid to come out of retirement and
reclaim his place on the football ﬁeld. However, the National Football
League has informed Mr. Simpson that his unfortunate incarceration may
affect his playing time.

 

The Campus 

Xi Pi Xi wants to affiliate
with IFC

President of W&L’s ﬁfth sorority Betsy Green has asked that Xi Pi Xi
be allowed to afﬁliate with the InterFratemity Council. Green claims that
the members of her organization feel it is important to blend into the
mainstream of W&L’s Greek system. In the true IFC spirit members of Xi
Pi Xi are opposed to Winter Rush.

VMI and W&L to merge

The administrations of Washington and Lee University and the Virginia
Military Institute announced on Monday that the two schools will become
one starting with the 1995-96 academic year. And in the spirit of gender
equity, freshmen women will also be required to shave their heads. But
according to the cadets, women will have to marry a cadet to get the true
VMI experience.

Weaver to produce line of
styling products

Junior Richard Weaver, in addition to producing a future Grammy
winning album, plans to produce a new line of styling products. Weaver
hopes to include a hair frosting product For W&L I Yellow. He claims he
will not send any free samples to the Trident.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Bethany Bauman

T

 

R'n -tum Phi A rill 199 w

W&L students assaulted by Lex

By AMY FISHER
Phi Staff Slut and Gun-Toter

Washington and Lee students have
always considered Lexingtonto be some
sort of Utopia, where violent crime is
not possible. On Friday, March 17, this
vision was proven to be just
an illusion.

That night, two Washington and Lee
students were accosted on their way
home from a party. Three Lexington
residents, believed to be students at
Rockbridge County High Schools, ha-
rassed and attacked the students using a
slingshot, a pea-shooter, and
several sticks.

According to the W&L students,
their attackers stopped them in front of
Sharks on Nelson Street. They began

by calling them names such as
“Dummy,” “Puke Face,” and “Dork.”
When the victims tried to ignore the
taunts, their harassers revealed their
weapons and demanded beer. When
the students‘ told their attackers that
they had no beer, only a half-ﬁlled
ﬂask, the scene turned violent. Ac-
cording to the two victims, their at-
tackers attempted to swing the sticks
at them, used the slingshot to attempt
to hurl small pebbles at them, and shot
peas at them through their straw. After
approximately two minutes of ﬁght-
ing, one of the attackers noticed that it
was past their curfew and the three
left, presumably to go home.

One student was hit in the back of
the neck with a pea and was treated at
the inﬁrrnary with Sudafed and Extra-
Strength Tylenol, and a year’s supply

of birth control pills. The other sus-
tained no serious injuries.

“I was terriﬁed,” said one of the
victims. “Sure they were only sticks,
but you don’t understand. They were
really big sticks. I mean, really big.”
His companion shared his fear.

“If you’ve ever been the victim of a
ﬂying pea, you know how I feel. It
smarts, it really does.”

The two students also voiced reser-
vations about going out at night in
the future.

One of them said, “It really changed
the way I feel about Lexington. It’s just
not safe. I don’t think I’ll be walking
around much more after dark, unless
there’s like, a really good band play-
ing. Or if they have Natural Light.”

Three teenagers were arrested Sat-
urday morning and were taken to Rock-

youths, police arrest suspects

bridge County Jail, where they shared
a cell with The Ring—tum Phi felon/
future Executive Editor Dan Odenwald.

Odenwald said, “Yeah, they were
pretty shady. Hey, what the hell are
you doing writing about my arrest in
the paper? That doesn’t have anything
to do with the story at all.”

Washington and Lee head of secu-
rity Mike Young advises W&L stu-
dents to be careful when they are out
after dark.

He advises students to avoid poorly
lit areas, to try not to walk past Sharks,
to walk in groups, and to wear turtle-
necks.

Young said, “There’s no sense in
anotherstudentsustainingapea-shooter
injury like that. Remember, Lexington
can be a dangerous place. Be careful
and watch out for that Dan Odenwald.”

Dean of Fun finds funk with Clinton

By Lrsr ME Sr-:r You UP
Phi Match Maker

As the strains of Harry Connick Jr. ’s “A Wink and
a Smile” rolled through her University Center ofﬁce
around 5 p.m. one Friday evening, Michelle
Richardson readied for yet another night on the town
in Metro-Lex.

“I just haven’t had time to think since I was on that
Dating Game show,” Richardson said. “I have men
calling me at all hours of the day and night, trying to
convince me that they’re Mr. Right.”

Richardson, however, has no desire to change her
name to “Michelle Richardson-Right.” As 5:03 p.m.
rolled around, a familiar face showed at her door.

“Hi, Georgie!” she said. “Dosen’t the pink jumpsuit
ﬂatter his eyes, Sarah?”

Ever since Michelle Richardson and George
Clinton met during Richardson’s appearance on
Washington and Lee’s would-be equivalent to “The
Love Connection,” starring Washington and Lee’s
would-be Chuck Woolery (or maybe that guy on
“Studs”), she has been sleepless in Lexington. Week-
end trips to Tahiti, or even the Mothership, evenings
jamming with the Parliament Funkadelic, or just
hanging around thrillin’ or watching PC U on video,
it has all been, in Richardson’s own words,
“kinda fun.”

Richardson remembers that fateful day when she
met the man of her dreams.

“I was on that ‘Dating Game’ thing,” she said. “I
had to choose between the Bachelor #1, Bachelor #2,
and Bachelor #3. I chose #2 and the rest has been one
big party.”

Richardson said she chose Clinton because she
liked his answer to the question, “What is your
favorite body part?”

Clinton answered, with a groovin’ lilt to his voice,
“I want to do it to you in your earhole.”

Richardson said she does not regret turning down
the other two choices, who were Professor of History
Jefferson Davis Futch and sophomore Chris Wick.

“They didn’t have any good answers,” she said.
“Bachelor #1 just kept raving about how he would
treat me just like Queen Victoria, whatever that
means, and Bachelor #3 couldn’t stop talking about
how much he hated funk music, school spirit, and
student activities.”

Clinton says he likes Richardson so much because
she’s “truly a * * **** * spacechild—I just *“"“ thrill
****1UlK* **#*##****  hen”

When he heard her voice, Clinton said he had a
“* * * * good "‘ * * "‘ * vibe” about Richardson.

“***#=lI* **IlU|I#**lKlI¥$ tttt ttttﬁi lﬂﬁﬁi,”
he said.

Richardson isn’t sure yet how dating George
Clinton will change her lifestyle. “There’s only so
much I could really change anyway. There aren’t any
places where you can get feathered extensions put in
your hair in a place like Lexington.” Richardson does
admit that Clinton (or “My little funk mufﬁn,” as she

 

. -~ .-
.-
- a
x" ‘.

Cto, th -Funk Go .9

   

calls him) has had some effect on her lifestyle. “I’ve
been eating a lot of Lee-Hi cottage cheese. It’s ** **
funktastic, man!”

On-campus housing required everyone
Trustees decide all students should live in Gaines or Woods Creek

I->HOUSING, from page 1

several students will live in newly cre-
ated quarters beneath Lee Chapel, on
the top floor of Lee House, and in a
special “tent city” to be constructed on
Wilson Field.

“The new ‘tent city’ will be named
‘Wilsonville’ to honor our departing
president, John D. Wilson,”
said Manning.

“There may be confusion about the
name, but let’s face it, every ﬁre hy-

drant here is named after somebody.

“It was bound to happen sooner
or later.”

Asked how he felt about the naming
of the new facility, retiring President
John D. Wilson replied, “I’m
deeply honored?”

According to Manning, the univer-
sal requirement may raise up to
$800,000 of additional funds.

“Before students react badly, they
should ask themselves just how many
little faux-metal alumni dedicatory
plaques $800,000 can buy,”

I->ARREST, from page 1

Bible, young lady. Right there in Exodus. The land
of Egypt was dark for three days, except for the

houses of the Israelites.”

The minister equated the fraternity and Christ’s
dormitory with the “people” of Moses in the Bible.
In an even more serious incident last week, all of
the dogs in Lexington except those in Red Square
developed a serious allergy to R.D. Clark and died

within 24 hours.

Robertson said he was going to comer the market
on lambs before the next Passover which he pre-

dicted would come any day.

“I plan to give all the proceeds to my alma mater,”
Robertson said. .“That is, if they name that there

chapel after me.”

said Manning.

Junior Andrew Olmem disagreed.

“Once again the administration has
decided to suppress the students’ inde-
pendence that has made W&Lfamous.”

Manning said he is of the opinion
that although there has been “some
scattered student opposition,” the policy
will be in the best interests of
W&L’s future.

Manning said that the new policy is
comparable to four-year housing re-
quirements at other universities. He
said that it is rare for students to have

This is such a copyright violation. 1 know I’m going to go to jail (with Dan Odenwald) for using thi.

the freedom and ﬂexibility of living
where they want to live for two years.

“Before the Wall came down, not
only university students, but ordinary
citizens, had almost no say about where
they lived.

“They just lived where they were
told, and they never complained. I
expect no less of W&L’s students,”
Manning said.

Junior Andrew Olmem disagreed.

“Once again the administration has
decided to suppress the students’ inde-
pendence that has made W&L famous.”

    

Christ enjoys dinner in the D-Hall after being bailed out of jail by his disciples.

Selected Quotes From the Phi Quoteboard
“Widows are bad. They should just be taken out and shot”

“Sex is cool, but not in Lee Chapel.”

“Why is it foaming so much?”
“Because it likes you.”

“I got hit on by my suitemate’s mother”

“My body was too bruised to feel good.”
“My mother has a pair of glasses like that. She uses them to look at

young boys.”

“I don’t lick rocks. It’s a self-respect thing.”

 

Top 10 Places
to Hook Up in

. Lexington, VA

COMPILED FROM STAFF REPORTS

10. Lee Chapel
Wait.’ We can Jo
it, but Suzi
Lanalolplii can}?

9. Leybum Library
24- hours of books

the Internet, anal goocl

lovin 7.

8. Liberty Hall
Ruins Anything

taller than it is wicie

is a phallic symbol "'

Wink.
7. \X/ilson Fielcl

Hey, our football .  

team can ’t score, but
we sure can.

6. Post Office
Stamp prices aren’t
the only thing on the

rise.

5. The Ring/tum P/ii
Olliee. All the
[ooove that’; [it to
print.

4. The Palms
"Screaming Orgasm "

isn,t just ‘ the name of

a drink
3. Drive’ln‘ 

$1.50 clate can 7t get

any better than this.

2. Gosllen Pass
Wet n’ wilol.

1. My room 1\/tiff’
said.

5.».

 

Pearl Jam rejoices as they find out. SAB contracted them.

SAB brings Pearl Jam to W&L

by LUDWIG VAN HALEN
Phi Music Reporter

The Student Activities Board has announced
Pearl Jam will play the Student Pavillion March
31 in an attempt to convince students that it
actually does have a clue when it comes to
selecting bands.

Pearl Jam is currently touring in northern
Virginia and was looking for a small, conserva-
tive, and generally backward college to play.

, 2j‘fAl'ghough_j(’s l')Qi.0l1I normal fare, it sounded
like the description fit, so we went for it,” said
SAB Entertainment Director Drew Denbo,

Wayne Newton was also touring northern
Virginia and gave Pearl Jam a run for its money
for the SAB contract.

Students “strongly urged” their friendly SAB
members to vote for Pearl Jam.

“Personally, I wanted to book Wayne New-
ton for the March concert, but the death threats
inﬂuenced my decision in favor of Pearl Jam,”
said Denbo.

The SAB has been criticized in the past for
its less than popular decisions regarding choos-
ing bands.“l think the ﬁnal straw was when
they booked New Kids on the Block,” said
junior Kiki Moronos, “l m,ean,_§ liked them
when I was young, but it’s different now.”

Senior Biff Lohser agreed.“Pearl Jam or

Wayne Newton? Even though Wayne Newton
is related to “Wayne” Night Owl Wayne, Pearl
Jam kicks,” said Lohser.The student body de-
manded the SAB take a moral inventory of
itself in an effort to mainstream their attitudes
toward music.

After an extensive review of its internal
working structure that involved two tons of
chocolate pudding, several barrels of whip
cream, and a life-size poster of Roseanne Barr
(excuse me, Arnold. Wait didn’t they get a
divorce?), the SAB emerged reorganized and
invigorated.

‘‘It was a lot like fraternity initiation, kinda
of scary, kinda messy, and really gooey,” said
SAB member Kris Swick. In a completely

by Elbebeth Fahrvegnﬁgen Karajan Von Hinderberg

PAGE 3

unrelated and separate incident, sophomore
Dean Alanen was arrested Saturday night for
being drunk in public.

He spent the night in jail with Jesus Christ
who was visiting his little—known brother,
Vinnie, serving time for grand theft auto. Pearl
Jam was excited about the concert.

“Michael Stipe of REM said W&L was one
of the best concerts they played, so we decided
to give it a shot,” lead singer Eddie Veddar
said.

The SAB vowed to make a concerted effort
to try to lure more attractive bands for W&L’s
listening pleasure.“If it turns out half as well as

‘REM, then we should be doing great.,” said

Denbo.

IO. l’ve bet gou’ve never seen the upstairs of a fraterhitg house before

9.
5.
7.
6.

5.

I'm a drunh prospective.
Kiss me, cute bog!

Let's go bach to mg room and drinh some good beer.
Have gou ever made out in a government building before?
You have great legs. l’d lihe to mahe them into a nechlace,

 

4. I've met gou before...it was in an erotic dream. It was wild, it was crazg, it was
incredible.” —- said at a fraternitg partg (The girl responded ”Reep on dreaming.")
3. Is gour father a thief? Then who stole the stars from the shg and put them in

gour eges?

2. Wanna go see the view behind the librarg?
I. I'm wearing bedding material, would gou lihe to lie on me? — a gug at Sigma
Phi Epsilon’s Caveman Partg who was attired in sheets

 

 

 

@112 iﬂing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

The $;,onlva~\¢ou$ P0¢«i'{C$ Act 1 FA.’ ¢J.'l>pf

This is an editorial about everything, about life,
about God and the beatnik botthavista generational
explosion of love, freedom, deep thought, poetry and
everything good about the world. This is about dollar
mugs from a vitamin manufacturer full of good, cheap
wine and bottles of dark beer late in the night, smuggled
in and out in backpacks, coat pockets, anything. This
is about Biblical references mixed happily with sexual
connotations until we wonder which is more holy.
This is about DJD] and deep discussions about noth-
ing for hours. This is about making decisions, impor-
tant decisions, late late at night at wits end and having
them be the basis for the way 3000 people see me.
Life, you know, is short and will ultimately end in
happiness if you live it right. This is how I see it. God
is there, there for you if you will just listen to him late
at night and sometimes when you lie out in the sun
alone with only the distant sounds of humanity to
remind you of the world. This is what I have learned
at Washington and Lee: respect the South, respect and
understand that alcohol can be a beneﬁt, you can
learn to drink socially, or you can learn alcoholism,
either one can come from a four— or five-year stint at
the Grand Old School of the South. Jack Kerouac was
all right and all wrong, had it right about meditating on
the world, knew how to write a sentence like none
you’ve ever seen, but he wasn’t successful the way I
want to be, the way this school has taught be how to
be. I’ve learned the value of conservatism and a well-
placed word of praise. Learned to ﬂatter without lying,
learned to tell the truth without pissing everyone off.
Learned to be a lady when I could, learned to be hard-
edged when I had to. And I have more patience than
the day is long, than the night is cold, than — but you
know the story has to start at the beginning, not at the
end, and this is really the beginning, a beginning I
have been waiting not—so—patiently for years, almost
here, thanks W&L, thanks Robert E. Lee, you will have
made it happen.

So I have earned what I could not buy, and maybe
I will be the better for it. Maybe we will all have been
the better for it. Maybe I made a difference.

But I never stopped loving. I’m the only one, but I
never stopped, not even. . .and that is the reason I have
gained from Washington and Lee what I could have
gained nowhere else, given here what I could have
given nowhere else, this is the reason, this is the right
way to understand the world, or at least I hope.

(This is beat. You’re not supposed to understand it
all. Or any of it, for that matter. Just be, just listen to
the rhythms of spontaneous thought. The best writing
is done in a trance, the pre-Raphealites knew it, the
religious bards knew it, Kerouac knew it.)

Quote of the Week...

“The best way to understand the rhythms of humanity is
through the unalterable state of the universe late at night with
several shots of Old Elijah Craig under your belt.”

No one said this. It just sounded cool. But, hey, you can

pretend you said it if you like.

Glliiz itling-tum lﬁhi

 
 
  
    

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi‘
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-rum Phi’
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi‘ ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi’ or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  ‘- ’‘’'‘-~'’‘ ~‘-‘-‘’’*,''‘ T

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - '. ._._T’_"(i" “ 4 W 

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3-‘? I‘. 2 ~

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _/ j‘ [E ,

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ’ ‘ f _ .

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,_  ‘ ’

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. H  .‘ 4, T,_  I

Editorial Cartoonist s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  , '  ' '  ' .~ - "

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. “III '- "'7." _ l “ " '
x-,v.‘+«.<’€', ;x.-‘.- -3. _
Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MaIcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Advertisement Composition Artist . ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias

Advertising Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Byrd, Jenni Grant

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

race ‘Tim is «nun ‘Peer. 1'41): )5 ‘In: nun race, Ac‘l’uAin , u0&’TI1 hnnuc.
OPINION

 
 
 
 
  
 
  

  
   
  

HEY, u1HA'1"5
THAT Box IN
FRONT oF

THE co-oP?

The Ring-tum Phi, THE VERY FIRST DAY OF APRIL, 1995

  
   
  

I DON'T I<’NouI-
’musr NOT
Er: IMPoP:rANT.

 

Alex Waxes almost
oetic in an attempt

to parody the practi-

cally un—parody-able

FAR MIDDLE
x Chri n 11

Some people might think it’s easy
to parody yourself. I mean, comedy
isn’t really that hard, when you get
down to brass tacks. As Dick Van
Dyke told Richie’s second grade class,
“Comedy is the art of the unexpected.”
He demonstrated this by leaving the
room and walking back in, then trip-
ping. Then he, like, acted like a tight-
rope walker except he was really right
there on the little raised platform, and
everybody knew that if he fell, he
wouldn’t fall very far. Boy, those sec-
ond-graders were laughing like crazy.
But then, they were being paid to...

So anyway, the point is, it shouldn’t
be very hard to come up with an amus-
ing few paragraphs to lighten your
miserable hearts, new full with the
knowledge that you’ll soon be leaving
little Lexington and heading to exotic
locales throughout the Southeast and
Europe. «

But nooooooooooo. That would be
too easy. See, the thing is, I’m a little
sick right now. Every time it gets to be
good weather, I come down with fits of
sneezing and coughing and term pa-
pers due. It’s almost enough to make
me believe in divine justice, if God was
like, a real spiteful old codger who
likes to watch good people suffer.

And now, a short poem, composed
when I was eleven years old:

 

The angry crowd grew silent,
The officer took me away,
All because I painted the
mayor in a little lingerie.

That’s right, I was writing social
satire when I was just a cute, little boy.

But why include it in your parody col-
umn? you ask. First, to show off the
fact that I knew how to pronounce
“lingerie” when I was eleven. But basi-
cally it’s an excuse. I’ve been writing
non-stop since I was eleven, and now,
well, I just need a little break.

Say, I could do what I do on my

wanted to hear, that member yells out,
“That’s it!” Unfortunately, the process
is still a bit rough, since the deejay is
the only one who really knows what he
wants, and he can’t really hear people
when they yell out, but...uh...think of
the technology! Breathtaking, ,;no?
So, see, my idea is, I’ll just start on

popularradio a par-
show, “The ticular
A I e x parody-
Christensen t y p e
Program,” idea,
Gummy _ ...r.vhen I put a ﬁve-dollar a n d
broadcast on bill in the change-making ma- t h e n
91.5 FM ‘ ' _ when I
WLUR m_ chine in the Graham Lees think
ington from laundry room and only got of an-
midnight 102 four quarters back. Imagine other
a.m. CVCI)’ O 0 0 I1 8 ,
F , i d , y whatmighthappen ifGranim 1,“ just
night——no, were elected to the White move
not rock fads, House on, and
no, not my "' before
well-worn w e
Reagan im- know

pression—no, this time I mean the
amazing new technological break-
through called Interactive Song Search
(ISS). This process is so high-tech that
I can’t fully explain it to you unless
you’ve taken some advanced computer
science and electrical engineering
courses, but I’ll try to give you a brief
idea of how it works.

The deejay (stay with me here, I
know the jargon can get confusing)
puts in a CD and explains that the ISS
is about to begin. Then he will hit
PLAY on the CD player and listen to
the ﬁrst song, along with the teeming
audience of rock fans. They are trying
to find the song the deejay wants to
hear that he doesn’t know the name of,
but he does know what album it’s on.
When a member of the audience thinks
that the deejay has found the song he

it, the column will be done!

This week, my columnwillbeabout
Pedro Wilson, the governor of Califor-
nia. I believe I have revealed here be-
fore that he and his compadre, Miguel
Huffington, are really illegal aliens sent
here to take over the government and
drive first California, then the world,
into bankruptcy and despair. Now,
Pedro has come one step closer to ac-
complishing that goal, forming a presi-
dential exploratory committee into
whose accounts he can funnel his food
stamp money and welfare checks. It’s
a heinous plot, and since I’m from
California, it’s my duty...

Y’know, the basic problem with Pat
Buchanan is, he’s a liberal panderer.
That’s right, you heard me. Pat
Buchanan has sold out his loyal sup-
porters and moved into the camps of

the left, abandoning we good protec-
tionist, isolationists without so much
as a (Sarah Gilbert, Phi Executive Edi-
tor: “This column better be
enteitaining...or it’s your a** I”)...

I have a bad feeling about Phil
Gramm. Ever since he announced that
he was running for president, it seems
like I’ve had a lot less money in my
pocket. I remember this little mini-
Depression started exactly the day af-
ter Gramm announced. Sure the stock
market hit 4000 about that time, but,
not by coincidence, that’s also when I
put a ﬁve-dollar bill in the change-
making machine in the Graham-Lees
laundry room and only got four quar-
ters back. Imagine what might happen
if Gramm were elected to the White
House... .

If there were any justice in this
country, Cecil Andrus would already
be President. I lived in Idaho for five
years while he was the governor. While
he had been President Carter’s Secre-
tary of the Interior, his Republican
replacement had signed a devil’s deal
with the U.S. government allowing
them to store nuclear waste at the Idaho
National Engineering Laboratory in
Blackfoot. Andrus fought the ruling in
court, lost, then personally stopped
every shipment at the border on the
grounds that the trucks transporting
them were unsafe. He once turned back
a truck because the light bulb in the
glove co when I put a five-dollar bill in
the change-making machine in the Gra-
ham-Lees laundry room and only got
four quarters back. Imagine what might
happen if Gramm were elected to the
White House...mpartment was burnt
out. This is not a man who would
bother consulting the UN about invad-
ing Haiti...

Good night, folks! Thank you! I’m
here every other Friday!

Very other Friday
Here in the Phi

W

7

at

Y.

9

V

V

I

f

 

   

 

Page this is a cry for help a The R° -3 11],‘, A '1 1, 1995
, W&LIF E mg "" ' P"

/ I.’/?@# ‘Z. ax: [1/#@§>
7/T '

 

4

   

    
 

‘@1995 Tribune Media Services. Inc.
L All Rights Reserved.

Poem U
"'é§E;T£‘§ -‘iz‘$?l’iE-iA§"»23.‘mF9:%aaesv euw...

49..
jSmith@AOL.com

     
  
 

2-1
‘"398 an-u NO SI
.12!!! :IO <|IrI$!lOSN3)
SIHL QL ‘)N|dllO))V

Dpgnne IN ‘THE 19906.,

,—a

 

THE EX- FILES...

01995 Tribune Media Services. Inc.
 *l All Rights Reserved.

DA'nNc-, IN ‘IHE 19705., 

/
-5.
»/v
1’
D
C
u (33?
F!

     

 

    

   
       
       
   
       
     

   
 
  
  
   
  
    
 

   

  
  
   
   
  

A W” 9: . \
~ FOR PEOPLEWHO sf“
' , ‘Y7; £9‘; 0
I 1 I .
~, LIFE THAN A PAYCHECK. -'
i
If you’re a youxgg
man or woman oo ng .
4. at a humdrum future, L-°°kI 3 ‘"1"’
there’s a challenging -but 313" 9 7° W’
alternaﬁve—the Army. ‘M’; u‘. Lt, Tomorrvw
Notjust the __ . Ix“
4 more than 250 skills (’ 7° ‘h ‘*6!’ or .
' to choose from, but km/Q you run m... Z
the lifestyle. The , [
chance to travel, to I do“ If /mew 5,54; V I OHM 4/ 4 ';r 9 
7 become ﬁt and trim and exercise your mental muscles, /.\’\ A {_ D ' ta , 9% 1, 2 /\ /\/_‘
" too. To do things you didn’t think you could do. T o be ,5 L”  Y ‘* '9 O 0 ’ ey  . e /14
proud of yourself and your country. Q ‘talk! :43 aloe  000 1 a .,, L-
And you get a pretty good paycheck, too. ~ \ T Why do» ’# you ‘ f 9 ‘ _ &
' 0 L.'% on X‘ 3
‘V  \   2 . f '95‘
; ‘ ARMY. B 5")
A ”“'°"“""‘ sesrsgtaaaaaﬁzlms  
_____________________________________ __ ON R 0,
“ r ‘- ALLSALEBIKES MARKED DOWN 1.5%-30% DO YOU LOVE W&L?
: : Diamond Back, T_REK,_Brid estone, Giant,
u HOW TO HANG ON TO YOUR DOUGH; : Fun warfannci Cgﬁgaééndﬂu fﬁge Service WANT TO GIVE TOURS
E (WITHOUT CRAMPING YOUR STYLE) ': y y AND SHOW OFF YOUR SCHOOL
q : E STUDENT llSl1I3(C;l1:ITTT1€I(I%ll3I'ITI(§(I§MMITTEE'
} £3 Separate “needs” from “wants.” . CATALOG OUTLETS '
I Hint A bed is a Need A MIT MiC"OPh0n€ i Pick up an application in the Admissions _Office this
= mm = I W=““-ire"“Pti°‘t‘;2::*3s::s‘ms-2%
r E £3 S rt th b." b t I h E T SHIRTS $4.99 giéy 81%;, FREE nterviews W1 e on are , , an .
. pl e I u ony pay yours are. .
I Why put in for someone else’s swordﬁsh :     E
I if all you got was soup? i G AP & CATALOG JEANS $10.88 _ .
' 5 E ' Train and make your first parachute
A) Set aside money for emergencies. N - - - - - -
E Unless you'd rather call your parents E I NCREDIBLE EJ<I)3t?cznIsIlq01i£)%§[’{Rw“L50%%Frnica Jump In one  dlv.e Vvglnlas
e E for it instead. ;  ABULOUS SPRING DRESSES Em staff has 30+ years instructional expe-
20% TO RIC .
E bee Keep your eye en ye", wenee E M W E rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-
H C" ‘b k Cl ' d ' -
i |o:a/eit.aTh<|—:-UL:rs]t Waglisesttc” CSaerrvi|cne :5: g>:tUyou E 5"“ 5‘“"‘* M MEWS & B°°‘S & Wm" 
"’ E emergency cash?‘ a new cardeusually within :  " WOMEN’S  . J . J
S 24 hours, and help replacing vital documents. E Sat. March 25 _ 20%  PRICE €  4 €  4
I "Based on available cash line. I
u E E T,G,1_1:, 11 S. Jefferson Street
E E Catalog Outlet  "   Lexington, VA 24450
I -  I -
; “'i§f.:f.:?’§.1T‘.“;.?;’Z.i?B':L‘:” 5 463-9588
1 - ‘ ' ‘ ' ‘ - ' ‘ ' ‘ ' ‘ ' ‘ " ' ‘ ‘ ' ' - - - ' ' - - ‘ — — - ' - ‘ ‘ - -_ o o
- EVERY DAY Men’s/Women’s Hair & Nails
‘I, MasterCard Credit Cards? rfanrds-C:n;.-Box-503%.-H'3L1;v;o;.-Ff33525.: rt f
I . ' ‘ Nouyoncnnhnvctwoolthcmootncognlaedund ' . O. a Inent 0rRen
accepted credit earns In the ue_dd..VlaI9 and Mnsleﬂhnlﬁ I ~l%ItW&0l Qdlt . 3 West Preston
°"°"e‘:'e‘e*';';'fY,fA“;e"e';*e"Ww§e"N'I;°g‘mge5g’R}_:'j : oudsappmed Immediately. «ms uuuuurum o Downstairs
~ .......::.~‘:.:.°..-'..': :.:'=..;~:'.;ao::';:'.;:::..m°-'*'..:.~°.‘:: 3 Apartment
STORI-ZS—1'UI'|”l0N—ENTERTAlNMENl‘— , NAME ' . . .
memzucv cAsH—1-iciu-:1s—m-:s'rAunmis— ADDRESS ' Wlthln Walking
-Ho.rrzi.s-uom.s—ms-can RENl‘ALs— ' n .
Rl:PAlRS—AND1'OBUI|DYOURCREDI1'RA1‘|NGl : C111’ ________ STAT!-:_zIP u DlStaI1C€ Of W&L
"‘ - ‘mm a ' Cam us
C - "M ,9!» :3 §$.‘¢'°‘c'£§.';.s. :  SS’ : can 261 6:78 Aft
A p  "° 59°'"'"3! 159905“! : Milt-Mulacaudtnulugblctvduldznunidnnteiaudlntnudlovnlilc. ' er
‘ V “M SE“ THE coupon TOD" ' VIsIIsoIcg!slcluHIIdtnInuilVlSA|1SA.|III:uIlVlSAkIknIIIoml :  
Youn CREDIT cums ARE wanna! . ,

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March24,l995 PAGE 3
INION ,
° GENERAL
W V h’ d h D
ea er. The man be in t e ream NO 8
TE '
GREEN D Me: Is there anything special you At least not in this country. k Funkaliciltgus, man. Le H_ k
LAN sleep with at night? Me: What ‘sthe biggest mista e Me: owaitresses at e- ias . .
RW: My picture of Sophia Loren. you ever made? And it better not have you for your autograph? Sleep  Lessons
Betsy Green She’s so hot! Kind of like the future anything to do with the Xi Pi Xi semi- RW: No, my phone number.
Mrs. Richard Weaver, Lynda Carter. formal. _ _ _ Me: What women’s clothing do The Washington and Lee Film 'i._

It was a dark and stormy night. Me: What supermodel is your fa- RW: Being nice to the Trident. you find sexy? Society is proud to announce their Miclrelle Richardson is offer-

The time had come for my inter- vorite? . Me: Bitter, Snookums? RW: Veils. . nextfilmpresentationsleepby Andy ing Smiling lﬁssons for campus
view with Richard Weaver. He ar- RW: Miss Crawford and I choose RW: No. I 11 Just give them my Me: If you were goiingtosask your- Wax-ho1.Thefilm willbe screened at groups in need ofa sense oflruruor_
rived at ourrendevous pointbehind the not to discuss our next album on self a question in an interview, what 3:00 p.m._ on Saturday in the Trou- The EC, rne college Republicans,
cafeteria at Hollins College. He was personal life. eight track. would it be?_ _ badour Cinema.'I'here will be a one the Staff of The spectator and the s
wearing a sequined jacket with an Me: d IA: a """'j  ::"" d Me: What R_ RhW: Wgiich do you like better, hour dinner break. lpc are strongly eneouragedro at-
excessive amount of zippers and one supermo e , oes ' t our o youicarry ap me or . asgow. ' rend Donarwonyibe nanny
glove. Afterthe SecretService cleared she have any SUP“ He arrlved 9 b W1thY°U1nY0UT M? which do Y0“ hke benerr
away, our invterview began. powers? rendevous point: 9' backpack? Raphine or Glasgow? _ , Jobsg! 

Me: Which Jackson isyourfavorite RW: Miss  the cafeterla at REV: sfe- t  l(i§a.Sdg0Vl/I,lb6Ca1:IlSfu Il;lSB elgsesr
and why? . Crawford and. I Hollins College. He cm Cy 0 lie’ l(i)na uni‘; _n ge.-frmlliii a g . Th°1'°Wi"“b°3Y°°ePti°n$7300 Interested in the clitoris and its I

RW: Rebbie, because everyone choose not to dis- _ my C0mP“ ei 35‘? ‘lghass 81 Sh  Hh_ r,_rn_ on Friday in Fairfax Lounge location? work fonhe PM Meet_

Me’ Kmd Pfhke our rea as W1 ' I 8' - qulned Jacket wlth fy d-t 5 Rw. if d t disc rnade W55 the f°“°“’"‘g J°b °PP°"“m' University Center at 7:00 p.m. ev-

RW: That sRe°'BEE' Me: Aside from ° 0 cm 1 car ' min a.c°':npac . ties: Secretary of State, Secretary of e Tuesday

Me: What’s the deal with the cow- having dinner with an excessive amount statements; out of gum.l mthinking of letting the Commerce, Secretary of Housing 1'3’ - i’
b°YRbv‘&°t;i: f . $:1?f::_‘ri:i(i Ian): Of zippers and one Elm“: forgwmj Trlﬁgf giegéfwsiﬁgokumss and Urban Development, and Sec-

3 CY,” ml’ W3Y° eXPT°551“g = _ i ‘ ’ ' . . ta of Trans rtation.
my Southern (Florida) heritage. , was, the best date glove° Aﬂer the Se autogratpllired  bio, as long ash] pI'OVIdt(ii hisli re ry P0  Care
Me: I’ve noticed you usually don t yolig; evlenrnhad? cret Servgce cleared (S/)£ll8lS 0 0; iolrica Iiie erﬁncest Ort 8 gum, 6)’ W h. t dbe _ t
k . D at socks with : y time - - i e i. s a con ex. _ as ing onan emenin er-
ii/if:atl;()s((>)t:?S 0 you we the girl, like, gives away! our lnvtervlew Yell...just in Me: What do you wear to sleep in? Inlageconsultant ested in yv&L women can learn in

RW: No. I like my feet to bond with me stuff. Merchan- began. Case somebody RW2 My Sophla Loren PaJ3m3S~ 9 about their proper care ataseminar
my footwear to give that natural feel. dise is so key. wants one. Me: Did you. ever own Underoos. Avery busy group is looking for on plants. TOPICS‘ to be addressed

Me: Your hair: explain. Me: Who was Me: Could RW: I did indeed. They were a spin doctor to revive tarnished will include fertilizers, soil types,

RW: It just grows there. I comb it the first girl you had you Just call up Superman. I used to run around with image“inieresrednarriessnould con- and the amount ofwater needed for
sometimes,“ a crush on? _ George Clinton my cousins wearing them. We only tact the EC potted p1ams_ ’

Me: Do you have any styling tips RW: Tammy Meads! Iwas eleven. andiisay, “Hi, George. It s me. What s stopped recently. .
for me? She was tall, taller than me. That was up? i - « _ ‘ Me: What sthe coolest thing about

RW: Useabrushwith, um, bristles. pretty much the appeal. RW: He doesn thave aphone in his me.

And ducksauce!Justkidding. (Laughs Me: How’d that work out? _ house. We speak telepathically. He s RW: You asked about my under-
a]oud_) RW: I’m not married or anything. feeding me the answers right now. wear. y
o
B etsy Green. More than you ever wanted to know
Vi
Me: What if they then ask you your major? cheese. W&L. thinking, “C001; HOW I Can drink m0l’¢-”
DREAM LAND E. Green: I say, “I major in looove.” Thenl Me:What is your fascination with the Me: What would be your talent if you en- Me: Imagine if there was no heaven...
R. h d W laugh ironically. Wonderbra? . tered. the Miss Isabel Ana Verde: That would suck.
lc ar eaver Me: Who’s more talented: Lamar Villere or E.A.G.: I justlike America pageant? Me: What s love got to do with it?
Chris Wick? tosay it. Wonderbra. W C ‘ j“""""_ Miss Betsy: . Greenie: What’s love but a sweet old—fash— y,
Betsy Green. Beat-poet. Subaru driver. Xi Betsy: I’m a bigger Lamar Villere fan be- Me: What else do , . Sleeping with the ioned notion? _
Pi Xi. Shell credit card holder since 1968. cause he came up to me at FD and told iilnii he youL like to slay? I m a bygger Lamar Villere ludrgvies. wh i’ liyliez S3, tip yciniliilite  t lik I lik
Fashion model. thoughtlwasfunny and was nice aboutt e act izzie: etitia. ei _ 3 S as s 61' 82 n 0 . U I10 l_ 6 I C
What else could there possibly be to this that I had no idea who he was. Susong. Me gusta la fan because he came up to "lie yourfavonte place coffee.I like both of them, but coffee is a better
woman? We ﬁnd out. Me: If you recorded a duet with Lamar lie c h (1113 g a_. atFD and t0ld met he thoug t oniiampustohang COI(h){li. I .V I P k 11 Am i , .f ‘ten
Villere, what would it be? qipaje... etsy is I was nn an was nice ou . _ l e: s a - a rea y erica s avori
Me: Who’s better: Diana Ross or Martha Liz: “Hello, I Love, (Won’t You Tell Me forced to stop) b t ta‘  t  t I had no Elizabethean: mail?‘ , _ .
Reeves? Your Name),” by the Doors. _ Me: If you had to (.1 0“ e ac (1 The weight room Elizabetsyi It s not my favorite mail. My
Betsy: I like Diana Rossbecause she’s better Me: What do you think Chris Wick would pick an area ldea who he was. in Games because favorite mail IS sexually suggestive postcards.
to sing along to while I’ll driving along in my think about the recording? . women’s college to then I can watch I love sexually suggestive postcards.
Subaru. Bets: 1 think Chris Wick can bite me. attend,‘ which one i i i all of the anorexic Me: The kind you buy at the W&L book- ,
Me: So, it’s like Rush, and someone asks Me: How do you like your Stop-In dogs? would it be and why. girls on the Stair Master thinking, ‘Wow, now store?
you where you’re from. What do you do? Elizabeth Ann: I like my Stop-In dogs like] Lizmeister: Sem, because I would be vale- I can have low fat dressing on the side with the Bess: Yes, because you can charge them
Elizabeth: “Your dreams.” like my men: with mustard, relish, chili, and dictorian, and it would be an easy commute to salad I’m having for dinner tonight while] in home.

 

 

   

 

 

it
1'
V
Students Needed! I
Earn up to $2,000+/month working for Cruise
Ships or Land-Tour Companies. World Travel.
Seasonal and Full-Time employment available.
No experience necessary. For more information
call: Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-0468 ext. C53421 s
Interviews and Photos by
Darcey Livingston ‘
it
' lkb k?
May I ask you a question for Ta ac .
V
Y
7
)1
Cathy Resmer, ’97, Cathy Celeste Resmer, ’97, “Boomer” Resmer, ’97, C. Resmer, ’97, The Cathy “The Animal” Resmer, Carmen Ramirez, ’97,
Eastpointe, MI—“NO!” Beverly Hills, CA—“Sorry, but Berkley Springs, WV—“Nope. I’m Rainforests ofBrazil—“lfyoucan ’97, New York City, NY— Barcelona, Spain—“Me gusta el
you'll have to talk to my agent.” fixin’ to go out and hunt me some find me....” “Uh...uh...no. Uh...l mean...yes. No! sgato.” ‘V .

possum for dinner.” Uh...yes! Uh.... What was the ques-

tion?”

 

    

The Ring-tum Phi April 1, 1995
’ PAGE

HEIIISTGGTBI K     “

 

.4.‘  ._. -_<

   
    
      
 
 

A MEANS Low PRICES        
e V   Golden
  Ripe

Bananas

.’c”>”}°“’i’.§£T.‘"‘£S:"2“2/  209
~ Stmdel_1s.23%z.  Waffles 16.5002.
' Selected Varieties 
Ice

    

, _ , . . . . File Photo
A sam l of what s coming 1 e upcoming W&L swlmsult lssue. Hey, I couldnt

make ' lear. My integrity j wouldnt allow it. Enjoy!

 
 
  
  

 
   
      
   
 

     

   

Let us
1 Perdue Fresh Fryer Selected Varieties . . a  an A
Drumsticks Or Presidents Chg1ig(e139 % s ..,,.tL“,}.3'..‘.'.'.’}’§‘,l.{"° 3:
Thl.ghS_Ib. I Cookies __ 12' oz. iclnedn no pmbkxn.  on to pay.
‘ — ' _ A Fast lieu» Isilosrsl  havl «
Mrs. PauI’s Light Cod Or Calldayormgm1+1Q5:-5_3Z‘e;3§;];=7;*g24 an nsconniuai   r
‘ F'"et   FL 33022
Flounder    

HARDWARE stones " ' weekly assembling circuit
i boards/electronic components

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items at h°m°- E"P“*’ie“°"* “““e°'

essary, will train. Immediate
 N K FE Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 . . Opegirilgi igoéogggocil area‘
. P E. Nelson St., Lexington 463- a E-XL 1-02C:7 44
E 0 r

HELP WANTED
 . Valley  Men/Women earn up to $480
9 oz.

    

   

. E 
C /  /
. Pe si Or Diet    
Gzcitden Cribkg 2eL5?si Z %
n I er % %
‘ 0, no.5 / . _ /
  32 Oz 1 . ° F,,-4?" 12pk_.12 02:, (.:ans . .. 5’ % Ladies ’S hoes, Clothing %
‘Y  1  "a”°"°’89 andA ccessories %
. 4 Olleaetge‘/t'_.__.22 oz. Ra.In_4-15 02..   O  
sex’ i ",”e""" 39 ’"‘’’‘’‘'’’_°’ 79 . Winter Clearance Sale /
Kelioggs 1050 Oral B % /
Pop-Tarts _11'oz. Toothbrush c1t. % %
'?"‘$=.$€:...'="'a*.=..*':v'*!!t€:r,':.!:.,ﬁ§:.Nl$z.t5 ii,§‘.;§f:;“3:  
4 On|y.We ReserveThe RightTo Limit Qu’ " 5. None SoldTo De ’.we G|ad|yAccept Federal Food Stamps.   //I

 

 

 

Last Week:

Men's tennis knocks off Argentina’s David Cup

team.

Former W&L baseball player John Harding

S

@112 iking-tum Elﬂhi

PORTS

This Week: *

Baseball takes on Florida State on Saturday.

New W&L swimsuit calendar to be published

on Tuesday.

signed as replacement Philly. T
PAGE 8 BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS, GOLF APRIL 1, 1995
F

Really strange and bizarre Bookwalter nightmare

By READA BOOKWALTER
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The greater metropolitan Lex-
ington area is just not a haven for
successful sports teams.

Besides our awesome Wash-
ington and Lee Division I sports
machine, which continually turns
out professional draft picks, and
VMI, who played the North Caro-
lina Tar Heels this year, where is
our next biggest sports city?

The answer is Washington
D.C., which currently boasts three
major professional sports fran-
chises.

Actually, “boasts” is not the
correct word to use, considering
the teams are the Redskins, Bul-
lets, and Capitals.

The Redskins ﬁnished 3-13
last season, the Bullets are occu-
pying the NBA Eastern Division
basement, and the Caps are not
exactly tearing up the NHL.

The amazing thing is, there
are people who actually get ex-
cited over them. If you ever get
really bored someday, turn on
HTS.

When there’s not a lawn bowl-
ing or a jai-alai match on, most
likely there will be a Bullets or a
Caps game on, or even worse, a

Bullets replay.

During commercial breaks, a
young man ﬁlls the screen, yell-
ing, “Johnny 0 here, BIG BUL-
LETS FAN!”

This man has guts. He is the
only person l’ve ever seen who
openly admits that he’s a Bullets
fan. At least he’s honest, but the
viewer has to question his mental
stability.

Recently, Johnny O proved
how big a Bullets fan he is by
showing highlights of Patrick
Ewing dunking over the Bullets
in a promo for an upcoming
Knicks-Bullets contest.

Maybe then you’re wonder-
ing how a team of Washington
sports figures (including the
Georgetown Hoyas, who while
presently are getting lucky in the
NCAA Tournament, possess
some interesting personalities and
names) would fare against a squad
of NBA All-Stars.

OK, probably not, but stay
with me during this dream se-
quence.

Washington starts Juwan
Howard at power forward, Don
Reid at small forward, Allen “The
Mad Bomber” Iverson at point
guard, Chris “The Wanna-Be
Mad Bomber” at shooting guard,
and the NBA’s perennial weight
problem, Kevin Duckworth at

center.

The All-Stars counter with
Eric Montross at power forward,
Charles Barkley at small forward,
Muggsy Bogues at the point,
Vernon Maxwell playing shoot-
ing guard, and His Shaqness,
Shaquille O’Neal, manning the
pivot, not to mention co-captain
Sue Deutsch.

John Thompson directs the
Washington attack, while Gary
Fallon and Verne Canﬁeld co-
coach the All-Stars. At the
announcer’s table are Dick Vitale,
and of course, Johnny 0.

The first half is a display of
basketball at its best. Reid fouls
out ﬁve minutes into the contest
and is replaced by Othella
Harrington, who fails to grab a
rebound or score for the remain-
der of the half.

Iverson commits 17 turn-
overs, and Webber connects on
1-16 three-point attempts.

After Thompson grew weary
of consulting a sun dial to time
Duckworth’s movement up the
court, he yanks Kevin and inserts
the 7’7” Romanian legend‘,
Gheorghe Muresan, who imme-
diately trips and falls.

The Stars fare worse. Max-
well is ejected after he jumped
into the stands and fought all 15
of the people present for heck-

ling him.

Shaq and Montross are both
tossed for arguing after Shaq
smashed a backboard over
Muresan.

Shaq completes the perfor-
mance by falling on his butt.

The Stars’ Christian Laettner
replaces Shaq, but is also given
the hook after he deliberately
stomped on Muresan’s face.

Washington receives ten tech-
nical free throws as a result of the
ejections, but Webber, normally
a 95% free throw shooter, cans
one of them.

“Webber’s a PT player,
babeeeee!” hyperventilates
Vitale.

“BIG Webber fan!” Johnny 0
adds.

At halftime, Washington leads
10-2, and while the W&L march-
ing band and cheerleaders enter-
tain the fans who have come
dressed as empty seats,

Fallon rants and raves at his
team in the locker room.

“You’re all pathetic!” he bel-
lows. “My football teamscored
as many points in our ﬁrst three
games as you’ve done in this
half. You absolutely reek!”

Incited by Fallon’s speech,
the All-Stars came out pumped
to start the second half.

Bogues repeatedly dunked

over Muresan and the All-Stars’
Dennis Rodman, sporting a head
of grass, collected 37 rebounds
in the second half as the All-Stars
roared back to within 17-13 with
less than eight minutes remain-
ing.
With the game tightening,
Canﬁeld and Fallon inserted their
secret weapons, forwards Robert
Hull and Cam Dyer, and center
Mark Connelly, replacing Shawn
Bradley and Will Perdue, who
both fouled out.

Sparked by these first-round
picks, the All-Stars embarked on
a streak. Following
Washington’s Desmond
Howard’s dropped alley-oop pass
from Heath Schuler,

Rodman sinks the first basket
of his career to push the Stars
into the lead for the first time, 28-
26 with 55 seconds left.

Hull fouls Webber, who with
the pressure mounting, calmly
steps to the line and bricks both
free throws.

“I hate all of you!” bellows
Barkley. .

Washington received another
chance after Barkley travels.
Washington’s Boubacar Aw fed
the ball to a confused Muresan
behind the arc.

As the buzzer sounded,

#

which loads six rows back in, the
seats.

The Stars prevailed 28-26.

A deliriously happy Bogues
finished with 7 points to earn,
honors as the game’s high scorer.

“Yaaaahhh, what a game!”
Vitale shrieked.

W&L tenured professor of
English, Moses Malone, and
assistent professor of publid
speaking Jason Kidd were im-
pressed by by the Stars’ come-
back.

“Shlbtuiytsmaptquk,” Kidd
commented. p

“Moses say they did good,”
Malone mentioned. “I like the
way they play. They play good
like Moses do.”

Fallon and Canﬁeld were less
enthused over the game.

“We deserved to lose,” Fallon
stated. “We would have lost to
that poor excuse of a team if it
hadn’t been for Muresan. I didn’t
realize he was that lousy.” x

“I never want to see a perfor-
mance like this again,” Canﬁeld
mused. “Games like this make

, me glad I won’t be coaching bas-

ketball anymore.”

The nightmare is over now,‘
and l’ll go back to sleep. When
I wake up, just maybe l’ll turn on

. HTS and hear, “Johnny 0 here,

Go buy a»
life you’
morons! 
Love, the.

I .

File Photo

No one was injured in a plane crash at Wilson Field last week. Just ignore the annoying FAA guys.

 

Just the facts: The Guru is on patrol.

By OLD MAN GRANT
Phi Sports Guru

Wilson’s football career cel-
ebrated: Michigan State
University’s basketball team is
out of the running for the national
title, but a previous MSU cham-
pionship group is getting back
together.

The 1952 college football na-
tional champion Spartans are re-
uniting to honor their former
standout defensive back, John D.
Wilson.

Yes, our university president
will be the guest of honor at the
ESPN televised-Chris Albert
hosted event on May 1 to cel-
ebrate his retirement.

“That team was a tremendous
part of my life and it is an honor
to be a part of this reunion,” said
Wilson, a member of the Aca-
demicAll-America Hall of Fame.

Rumor has it that Wilson’s
number “60/40” jersey will be
retired during the ceremony, but
organizers are mum on any pos-
sible tributes.

“John was the brick of that
national title team and we will
honor him in the appropiate way,”
said former Wilson teammate and
co-captain of the ‘52 Spartans,
Sue Deutsch.

Hottle off to Atlanta: Newly

crowned national 200 back cham-
pion Nathan Hottle will become
Washington & Lee’s ﬁrst swim-
mer ever to compete in the Sum-
mer Olympics.

Hottle’s performance at the
Division III nationals last week-
end eamed the sophomore the
automatic berth on the Team USA
that will compete in Atlanta.

“Nathan’s selection was a di-
rect corelation to the scientiﬁ-
cally enhanced training methods
that we employ on our swim-
mers,” coach Page Remillard
said, we think.

Hottle was in his apartment
Tuesday when he was informed
by team

co-captain Sue Deutsch of his
Olympic selection.

Farrar Becomes Lax Hall-of-
Famer: Jim Farrar, W&L’s Di-
rector of Alumni Programs and
former lacrosse All-American,
became the last member of the
1974 Generals to be inducted into
the National Lacrosse Hall of
Fame.

“Jim made it? Are you kid-
ding me?” was the reaction of
Hall of Famer Ted Bauer.

“I thought they had stan-
dards?” said F arrar’s former part-
ner on defense, Rob Lindsay.

For the last ten years, Farrar
was the only member of that 15-
1 squad not to be inducted into
the Hall, located in Baltimore.

All other players, coach Jack
Emmer, assistant Chuck
O’Connell, the equipment man-
ager, the three fans that inspired
the come-from behind win over
Towson State, a Ring-tum Phi
sports writer, and 12 former
Southern Sem cheerleaders had
all received the honor.

The cheerleaders weren’t ac-
tually used at W&L’s games, but
the committee thought “what the
heck.”

One member of the ‘74 Gen-
erals was happy for Farrar, sort
of.

“Well, since he’s standing in
the background in that immortal
photo of Teddy Bauer from the
Hopkins game, I guess he de-
serves it,” said former Generals’
co-captain Sue Deutsch.

Keenan takes basketball helm:
Mike Keenan, coach of the St.
Louis Blues of the NHL, has
signed on to take over W&L’s
basketball program.

“Even though Mike has never
coached basketball before, we’re
happy to have someone of his
caliber agree to a long-term con-
tract and commit himself to the
rebuilding of the program,” said
Mike Walsh, athletic director.

Keenan announced he was
leaving the Blues at the end of

. the season because of a clause in

his contract that allowed him to
pursue a buyout if the GOP ever

regained control of both houses,
John Travolta got an Oscar nomi-
nation, Weber State made the
NCAA Tournament, Oil Can
Boyd ever played baseball again,
and a woman was elected presi-
dent of W&L’s Student Conduct
Committee.

“Damn! Weren’t we lucky!”
said Generals’ basketball co-cap-
tain Sue Deutsch.

The university is not con-
cerned about losing Keenan after
just one season, like the New
York Rangers and St. Louis did.
Apparently Keenan can only pur-
sue a buyout if every surviving
member of Ken Ruscio’s infa-
mous 1990-91 freshmen “envi-
ronmental hall” graduates by this
June.

“Sucker!” said Walsh.

Ripken rolls on: Senior
women’s lacrosse goddess
Nicole Ripken played her 114th
consecutive game in which she
scored a goal with one second
remaining.

Yet, Ripken has continued to
hear criticism that she is allow-
ing the streak to affect her play.
Some observers have claimed
that she purposely holds the ball
until the ﬁnal second in order to
keep the streak alive.

“That’s absurd,” said assis-
tant coach Jami “Pour this in
your shot glass, Jac”

Daningsburg.
Ripken dismissed as possible
evidence the recent game in

which she held onto the ball for

the final eleven minutes of the
game, running circles around the
field, then scoring with a second
to go.

“If I didn’t score with one
second left, Keith would have
nothing left to write about!” she
said.

The Generals continued to
express their support of Ripken
and her streak in a statement from
team co-captain Sue Deutsch.

Dadio trial enters day 41: The
double-murder trial of Terry
Dadiotookadramatictum Thurs-
day with the testimony of W&L
security guard Baner.

Baner testified to finding a
bloody glove in the back seat of
his Ford Bronco, the vehicle that
Dadio and Brenda Davis used in
an escape from police custody
last fall.

Under cross-examination, the
defense attempted to have Baner
admit to being a sexist who hated
Dadio and wanted all women to
leave W&L.

One-hundred-fourteen fresh-
men women are scheduled to tes-
tify in Baner’s defense.

Dadio, head volleyball and
women’s basketball coach, is
being tried for the murder of her
former lover J_.C. “Kato” Coyne

and Jami Daningsburg, assistant.’
women’s lacrosse coach.

Coyne, who was the assistant
sports information director, had
broke off the relationship after
years of physical and emotional
abuse by Dadio and had a re-‘
straining order against the former
hoops star.

The prosecution intends to use
a taped 911 call by Coyne as
evidence of Dadio’s threatening):
and abusive temper.

But according to Coyne’s
former boss, Brian Logue, “J.C.
wasa wimp, anyway.”

Coyne and Daningsburg, a),
“friend”, were murdered outside
their Woods Creek apartments

, last October.

The defense alleges that Dadio
could not have committed the
murders due to injuries suffered V
during her basketball playing
career at Lafayette College.

Judge Bob ItoMaria is ex-
pected to rule tomorrow whether
the defense can have Dadio re- ,
veal her allegedly scarred knees '
to the jury.

The prosecution feels this will
create too much of a distraction
to the courtroom, but would like
to see them, anyway.

Help, I’m trapped in a living
hell. Will somebody help me!
This is the only message that I
can sneak out from this God-
awful place! The Phi is holding‘r
me prisoner!

 

