,;<.y_.,, -.

      

.wmN£$¥S$SS&ﬁM$M($$$ 

Akl '."(/

 Weather

Macﬁetﬁ opens
Tribag

55”’-"" " :"- »--. . . ..
\l. maven ~/M ;.;;rih_ ,» .>H,,yV;.,k,.‘._,‘..‘.

\\’-‘sﬂrtiﬂ
5. t?"‘C?‘f\yt§':‘i_"*«I; .3‘; 3445)

l‘ 8 E‘: 1995

 

 

I ‘rah! i.,’¥-.=§V‘ﬁ‘.'KET‘~«’

Baker and Garcia
Win uﬂtiﬂnﬂll douhﬂeﬁ
nhampionﬁhip

     U112 iﬁing-tum {ﬂirt

‘‘ VOLUME as, NO. 22

X‘

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

I .
Dog tired

2 Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

 

A member of the puppy brigade naps in the BDG Quad during the Theta Date Auction.

By ANNE E. ALVORD
Phi News Editor

The Lexington Police and Wash-
ington and Lee University Security
were by no means bored last weekend.

Director of Security Mike Young
said, “Activity-wise, this was the busi-

est weekend this year.”

All together there were 15 _arrests of
Washington and Lee students and
alumni. The arrests included four ar-
rests for noise violations, one arrest for
purchase of alcohol for a person under
21, four arrests for possession of alco-
hol by a person under 21, one arrest for

speeding, two for drunk in public, one
for reckless driving, one for driving
under the influtence, and one
for littering.

Chief of Police Bruce Beard said
that this past weekend was “busier
than usual”.

Adding to the commotion of the

‘*Alumni weekend has many arrests

past weekend were four arrests of Vir-
ginia Military Institute cadets. The
charges included three charges of
posession of a1colhol,and two charges
of contributing to the delinguency of
a minor.

There were also several other ar-
rests of local residents.

Deans hold exit interviews with seniors

MAY 19, 1995

Sororities vote
on housing

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

At Monday’s Panhellenic Council
meeting, about 140 of Washington and
Lee’s Greek women voted on what
type of facility they would like to have
for their sororities. The women were
presented with four options. The ﬁrst
was a sorority house, comparable to
what the fraternities have now, The
second option was a sorority lodge,
which would not house any of the
women, but would provide dining ser-
vices and meeting/msh rooms. The
third option was also a lodge, but one in
which officers of the sorority would be
able to live. The ﬁnal choice was a
sorority complex with a central kitchen,
meeting rooms, rush rooms, and a cen-
tral ballroom for date functions. No
one would live in the complex.

Panhellenic president Suzanne
Sharp said that Monday’s vote was
split 50-50 between the ﬁrst two op-
tions. Sharp hopes to have the approxi-
mately 250 sorority members that were

not present at the Panhellenic Council
meeting vote at their chapter meetings
on Monday. According to Sharp, this
round of voting was to, “...just gain a
consensus among the Greek women
here about what kind of sorority facil-
ity they want because we definitely
feel that one is needed.”

The Panhellenic Council and the
housing chairs of the four sororities
will research the different options and
will contact other universities with sys-
tems similar to Washington and Lee’s
to see what has been most successful.
Sharp hopes that the sorority members
will have a ﬁnal decisions on what type
of houses or lodges they would like by
next year.

When these facilities will actually
become a reality depends on the
university’s funding and long range
plans. Sharp, however, remains hope-
ful, stating that, “We’re basically just
beginning the journey toward having
some kind of facility for
ourselves...We’re very positive about
this whole process...There’s no ques-
tion that there’s university and
administration support.”

Wilson discusses
gender equity in
last lecture series

By CINDIE YOUNG
Phi News Editor

gender differences.

In front of a crowd drawing as much from the community as from the
campus, President John D. Wilson reflected upon the world of

Neither the speaker nor the topic itself were easily arrived at, however.

When approached by Reverend Burr Datz, Catholic Campus Minister
and coordinator of the Last Lecture Series, Wilson “said no at first.”

‘‘I considered it wholly inappropriate,” Wilson explained, “that one who
has never given a ﬁrst lecture on campus should give a last lecture.”

- These ten seniors

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

Fortwo yearsinarow,
Dean of the College John
Elrod and Associate
Dean W. Lad Sessions
are conducting personal
exit interviews with ten
members of the class of
1995.

wererandomly chosenby
computer through the
Ofﬁce of the Registrar.
Through the interviews,
Dean Elrod said that he
hopes to gain, “...some
general impressions from
those ten students about
their experiences here.”
Students were asked to
talk in some detail about

their academic and so-
cial experiences at Wash-
ington and Lee. They are
also asked questions that
are very speciﬁc to cur-
rent issues concerning
students. Each student
was asked eight to ten
questions in all.

The results of the in-
terviews are not pub-

strictly within the Of— conducted by the univer- Senior Laura Purcell
ﬁce of the Dean of the sity through Professor said of her interview, “It
College. Dean Elrod Robert McAhren’slnsti- wasa great experience to
said, “We don’t think tutional Effectiveness have the future president
of these interviews as Committee. of W&Llisten to me talk

scientiﬁc, or as giving
even a representative

Despite the limited
scope of his survey, Dean
Elrod views the inter-
views as beneﬁcial and
that they,
“...help us...think about

sampling of what all the

graduating seniors in

the class might think or believes
believe.” The in-depth,

representative survey is the future.”

about my academic and
social expectations and
experiences. lt’s another
example of how the
administration does lis-
tento students’
opinions.”

The idea of a ﬁnal lecture further intimidated Wilson, as the label “last”,
so often applied in his last few months as W&L president, carries with it a
“terrible, lugubrious” connotation” of ﬁnality.

Having ultimately shrugged off his reservations in delivering the
lecture, Wilson encountered further difﬁculties in his selection of a topic
upon which to reﬂect.

Wilson ﬁrst considered speaking upon his upcoming retirement from
the presidency, leaving behind so many memories and friends. Another
possibility presented itself in the form of a timely lecture on the relation-
ships between men and women in Macbeth.

Gender differences ﬁnally arose in Wilson’s mind, a subject of much
interest to Washington and Lee even today, nine years after co-education.

lished and are kept

Society for the Arts to end year with gala

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

The Society for the Arts will end the

year with a sophisticated and posh per-
fonnance of musical, visual, and liter-
ary art that will feature some of Wash-

ington and Lee’s most accomplished
artists.

“An Evening with the Arts” is
chaired by Senior Noelle Parrot. The
event will highlight students who have
distinguished themselves in the arts.

The impetus came from Jonathan


r r 

Jr

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

outside the co-op.

The Society for the Arts advertises for their ‘Evening with the Arts’

VanDyke, said Parrot.

“We wanted to celebrate the arts
with a kind of formal affair that is so
popular at Washington and Lee,” said
Parrot.

The event will begin at the Alumni
House around 6:30 p.m. featuring live
jazz music and a display of student art
work. Heavy hors d’oeuvre will be
served and a cash bar will be available
for those patrons over 21. The festivi-
ties will oontinue at 8 p.m in Lee
Chapel with a poetry reading and mu-
sical performances.

Parrot hopes 150 students will at-
tend, ﬁlling the capacity of the Alumni
House.

Tickets are on sale outside of the co-
op for ﬁve dollars per person.

The Society of the Arts exploded
onto the W&L social scene earlier this
year offering an alternative to the stan-
dard fare of fraternity parties and
Zollman bashes.

Strangely enough, the original pur-
pose of the group was quite different.

The Society was founded to focus
attention on the arts because they have
been largely neglected in recent years.

Sarah Anne Ryder will be the
Society’s chairman next year. She
hopes to expand the group’s activities
and funding.

“We have different people in lead-
ership positions and they should bring
new ideas,” said Ryder.

She hopes to help sponsor the
Writer’s Harvest, the poetry reading
from which proceeds go to Lexington’s
food bank.

Ryder said the Society has received
overwhelming support. Most of the
feedback has been positive.

Ryder reaffirmed the group’s main
goal, “We will continue to bring talent
into the forefront.”

 

Alluding to the recent sexist remarks of a professional golfer, Wilson
commented that “we have a little of [such sentiment] here.”

The debate also spurred many less amusing and “vastly less creative”
bumperstickers—- in Wilson’s words “a throwback to I don’t know what.”

Yet men’s colleges were fast becoming extinct in America, and Wilson
recalls the concern of W&L faculty that “we would become
philosophically obsolete.” 1

Wilson concluded his lecture with a discussion of the relationship
between Alma Schindler, “a serious intelligent young woman,” and her
husband. The life of Alma serves as a “remarkable story that has been lived
by many others,” Wilson fears.

in 1902, at the age of 22, Alma married the famous composer Gustav
Maler, then twice her age and at the pinnacle of his musical career.
husband. The life of Alma serves as a “remarkable story that has been lived
by many others,” Wilson fears.

In 1902, at the age of 22, Alma married the famous composer Gustav
Maler, then twice her age and at the pinnacle of his musical career.

Even before the marriage, Maler clariﬁed to Alma in a letter that, in
order to be his wife, she must “become what I need to behappy: my wife,
not my colleague.” .

Alma, musically inclined in her own way, thus entered the marriage
accepting that she must suppress her own artistic interests in order to further
those of her eminent husband.

The price at which Alma agreed to such conditions was high, indeed:
“the loss of a very important part of her existence.”

In her memoirs years later, Alma wrote, “His genius ate me up, although
he meant no murder.”

Wilson finds in the experience of Alma “a small footnote” marking the
tragedy of subjugating one’s ability to that of others, however talented.

“We’ve come to recognize there is a great harm in frustrating the ability
of anyone,” Wilson concluded; accidents of race, creed or sex must have no
bearing on opportunity, both in the world of higher learning and beyond.‘

Fil Photo
President John D..Wilson

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1995

"r

BEYOND

THE BLUE RIDGE

Americans and German share
research prize

On Tuesday, the Paul Ehrlich Foundation announced that Jack
Strominger of Harvard University, Pamela Bjorkman of the California
Institute of Technology, and Hans-George Rammensee of the German
Cancer Research Center will share this year’s Paul Ehrlich Prize. The top
German medical prize is being awarded to the three scientists for their
work on the T-cell, one of the essential parts of the immune system. Their
research has led to essential progress in developing several vaccines, and
possibly in the treatment of cancer and AIDS.

Three journalists jailed

A state security court in Istanbul, Turkey sentenced two journalists and
their publisher to prison on Tuesday. The three were found to be in
violation of the country’s anti-terrorism laws after quoting allegedly
separatist comments made by a Kurdish legislatorwho was jailed last year.
The two journalists, Hidir Goktas and Metin Gulbay, were sentenced to
twenty months in prison, while their publisher, Hasan Basri Ciplak, was
sentenced to ﬁve.

Outbreak in Zaire

As of Tuesday, the Ebola virus had killed eighty six people in and
around Kikwit, Zaire. The virus may have spread to Kinshasa, three
hundred seventy miles west of Kikwit. A nurse who worked at Krkwit
General Hospital ﬂed in panic to her family in Kinshasa. Late Tuesday,
Health Minister Lonyangela Bopenda Bo-nkuma said that he did not have
any final test results on the nurse, but that the case was suspicious. An
isolation ward has been set up at N galiema Hospital in Kinshasa to hold_a
total of twenty people. There is no vaccine or cure for Ebola, which is
spread through bodily fluids and kills eighty percent of those who
contract it.

The Nation

House approves Clean Water
Act revision

 

On Tuesday, the House passed a revision of the Clean Water Act with
a vote of 240 to 185. The revisions dramatically reduce the amount of land
eligible for federal wetlands protection. The rewritten act will also give
industry broad ﬂexibility to comply with regulations designed to reduce
pollution in the nation’s rivers and other waterways. Under the revision,
states will be given a stronger role in enforcing antipollution laws.

U.S. threatens to impose trade
sanctions

The Clinton Administration threatened yesterday to impose trade
sanctions against Japan, targeting luxury cars. The proposed tariffs would
double the prices of imported Japanese luxury cars in the U.S. The trade
tariffs are designed to persuade Japan to open up its markets to U.S.
automobiles and auto parts.

Progress in Simpson trial

On Wednesday, California Department of Justice DNA analyst Gary
Sims testified that his laboratory found a genetic match between the blood
of Ronald L. Goldman and a blood drop inside the man’s brown leather
found at the Simpson estate. This is the first time during the trial that
Goldman’s blood has been placed at the O.J. Simpson’s home. The state
laboratory, corroborating the ﬁndings of a private lab, also found that
Nicole Brown Simpson’s blood genetically matched blood on a sock
retrieved from O.J. Simpson’s estate last June.

The State

Crestar settles dispute

Crestar Securities Corporation has agreed to buy back approximately
$1.5 million of securities from the Williamsburg government to avoid a
threatened a lawsuit from the city. The Williamsburg City Council had
authorized a lawsuit against Crestar after ofﬁcials learned they had spent
millions on volatile securities

Converse College to vote on
Citadel alternative

Faculty members at Converse College, an all women’s school in
Spartanburg, South Carolina, voted on a military style leadership program
that could keep the Citadel from having to accept women. The Citadel in
Charleston, South Carolina and Virginia Military Institute in Lexington,
Virginia are the only state supported all-male colleges in the nation.
Federal courts have ordered both of them to either admit women or develop
an alternative program for them. The Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals has
approved the program that VMI has set up with the Mary Baldwin College.

Proposed site for prison in
Wythe County shifted

The Nashville, Tennessee based Corrections Corporation of America
has given up on the idea of using a controversial site for a proposed private
prison in Wythe County, Virginia. The company will continue its efforts
to win a contract from the state to build and operate a 1,500 inmate medium
security prison in the county. A new site has been chosen in Wythe
County, but its location is not being disclosed.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled byBethany Baunman

Just spike it

 

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman enjoyed the spring term weather thursday by participating in a volleyball tournament. The tournamnet was held in
the Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad during a pig roast dinner.

.{

Graham-Lee-Washington Society I
debates student autonomy issue

By Michael Hewlett
Phi Associate Editor

Approximately 60 Washington and
Lee students debated, sometimes heat-
edly, whether students are losing their
autonomy in the Graham-Lees-Wash-
ington annual Spring Dinner Debate on
Wednesday night.

The debaters were seniors Jonathan
Van Dyke, Kelly Brotzman, and Alex
Cross and junior Kirk Susong.

Brotzman said that the word “au-
tonomy” has been thrown around in
recent months. Issues such as Winter
Rush and sophomore housing require-
ment have pushed student autonomy to
the forefront. She argued that one part
of the institution cannot be totally au-
tonomous. Each constituency has cer-
tain rights but also certain obligations
which is to act in the best interests of the
school as a whole.

Susong believed the faculty exists in
the interests of the students. He cited
Robert Lee ending the war between the
faculty and students after the Civil War
as the beginning of student self—gover—

The dog’s the Winner in the The

nance. He thinks some of this self-
govemance is being taken away.

Cross said Washington and Lee is
original and the faculty has a preoccu-
pation with being on the top 25 of U.S.
World and Report .

“This school is not for everybody,”
Cross said. “Please don’t make this
university a Swarthmore, a Amherst.”
He argued the administration is trying
to take away what makes W&Lunique.

Van Dyke disagreed. “To say we’re
losing our rights ignores the fact that
we come into a community,”
he explained.

“Our social life and academic life
are intertwined and we need to recog-
nize that.”

Brotzman argued that trying to at-
tach a monolithic model to the univer-
sity is misguided. She said diversity
should be encouraged and should not
be in conﬂict with what makes the
university unique.

Van Dyke said homogeneity con-
flicts with the goals of a liberal
arts education.

“The goal of a liberal arts education
is to open yourself to different people.”

Once the main debaters had made

By Cindy Young
Phi News Editor

Home to such campus events as the Evans Dining
Hall Pig Roast and the Mr. W&L Pageant, the
Baker Quad last Wednesday, May 17, set
the stage for the first annual Kappa Alpha Theta

Date Auction.

The auction, organized by the W&L sorority,
recruited 22 men and women of all four classes as
dates upon which an enthusiastic audience, after
paying $1.00 for admittance, could bid.

All funds raised will beneﬁt the sorority’s chari-
ties including Habitat for Humanity and Intema—

tional Philanthropy.

Freshman Jackie Terrebonne, who emceed the
auction along with senior Bob Philips, recalls that
“after a while people started having a good time,” and

bidding wars soon developed.

One of the lucky audience participants to walk
away from the auction with a date, freshman Juliana
Edmunds “thought the auction was a great idea.”

“An evening with my date,” Edmunds adds, “is
well worth the $11.00. Normally he charges more.”

Perhaps the most sou ght-after date, however, was
neither boy nor girl, but instead a party by the name

of Bear, a midnight blue Labrador.

The lucky girl to win a date with Bear, freshman
Caroline Yates, admits, “I love dogs, and know every

dog on campus by name.”

“I thought it’d be fun to spend a day with a dog,

Yates explains.

Yates was not the only member of the audience to
fall under the spell of Bear, however.
“Four other girls were ﬁghting with me,” she

general statements, the debate was
opened to audience participation.

Senior Kevin Batteh said he had no
problem with diversity but he thinks
that there are some things the faculty
should not fool with. ‘‘I don’t think you
should tinker with the fundamental
values [of the university].”

One of the fundamental values of
the university, the Honor System, came
into the debate.

“I am appalled by the lack of respect
for the Honor System in the freshmen
class, said senior Elise Brown.

Some students argued that diversity
is ﬁne, but if applicants are not going to
abide by the Honor System, they should
not come here.

Cross believed the need for diver-
sity is even more reason why students
should have more self-governance.

Van Dyke said students should have
more choice in the activities they par-
ticipate rather than going to fraterni-
ties. He thinks giving students more
choice was what the faculty had in
mind when they voted for Winter Rush.

Susong had a different view.

“The faculty members are trying to
socially engineer us.”

He said the faculty should have no
control over students’ social activities.
“What makes the faculty qualiﬁed

to talk about our social life?,” he said.-

“There are some professors who are
less socially mature than students at
my junior year.”

Junior Rick Hill said the faculty ,

doesn’t respect the students.

“The faculty doesn’t give a damn .

what we think.”

He said the faculty and administra-
tion is attacking students’ ability to
make their own decisions.

Brown said the faculty simply
doesn’t put their trust in the students to
make their decision. Calling on her
experience as President of the
PanhellenicCouncil,sheexplainedthat
in PHC, if there is ever an issue is
serious enough to go before the Judi-
cial Board, the ﬁnal decision is made
by the Student Affairs Committee.

“I should be able to look at an issue
at age 22 and say that hazing is wrong
and you should not do it,” she said.

Suson g agreed. “We should be given ‘at,

respect because we pay to go here.”
But Brotzman said, “We also have
to earn respect.”

ta date auction

<4!‘

   

Ph by Bets ’ n, The Ring-tum Phi

Bob Philips conducts bidding during the date auction.

and I knew the money was going for a good cause,” recalls, as the bidding advanced.

While only one girl could leave the first

was high.

campuswide auction able to set a date with a lab on
her calendar, the overall audience enthusiasm

Everybody wants some Southern Comfort

By Brsrsv GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

Fans of Washington and Lee’s
male a cappella group Southern
Comfort won’t have to wait for con-
certs to hear their melodies any
longer. The group released a CD
last week entitled Everybody Wants
Some. Southern Comfort member
Tommy Esposito said that the re-
lease of the CD was timely. “Every
four years or so, Southern Comfort
has recorded a tape,” he explained.
The members of the group were
intrigued by the possibility of re-
cording on CD. Said Esposito, “We
all went nuts at the idea of putting

out a CD. We were all curious about
how the group would sound.” Kip Ebel,
another Southern Comfort member,
said that he and the other seniors were
especially pleased to be recording. “It
gives us something to take from the
group besides memories,” he explained.

The album was recorded live at
Lenfest Center after Christmas break
with engineer Gary Humiston. South-
ern Comfort member Rob Eison felt
that the beginning of Winter Term was
the perfect time for the group to begin
the project. “We had just ﬁnished per-
forming at The Greenbrier for New
Year’s, and we were in good shape
musically.”

Recording live posed many chal-
lenges to the group. Eison said that just
getting all of the members of the group

together at the same time could be
difﬁcult. There were musical challenges
as well. “We were most concerned
about getting a good blend of sound. In
a CD more than in a live performance,
people will hear mistakes,” said
Esposito. Each of the thirteen songs on
the album had to be performed be-
tween ﬁve and ten times.

According to Ebel, “It was difﬁcult
to stay focused sometimes. Insistence
on perfection plagued us, but it paid
off.” Esposito agreed, “You got a head-
ache sometimes, you were thinking so
hard.” Everybody Wants Some fea-
tures many of Southern Comfort per-
formance favorites, such as
“Moondance,” “My Girl,” “Faith,” and
“In the Still of the Night.” Anyone who
has seen Southern Comfort perform is

familiar with the group’s sense of hu-
mor. “We wanted to bring our person-
ality into the album,” said Esposito.
Eison believes that compared to the
group’s usual performance style they
were, “pretty tame” but that their per-
sonality is still apparent. The liner notes
of the CD are full of inside jokes,
including thanks to, “the arousing but
excessively pierced young ladies in
San Francisco.”

The disc itself is decorated with,
“altemate titles to the album,” an idea
that Eison said was, “pretty much for
our own amusement.” Jokes aside,
Eison said, “I think the music stands by
itself.”Everybody Wants Some is avail-
able on CD or tape at the bookstore.
Southern Comfort’s ﬁnal perfonnance
of the year will be at baccalaureate.

 

Y

i
1
l

 

 

V.

A

U’

L.

R

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1995

‘T/I/c’7“L ife

‘Ml\C‘l5ETll

THE SCOTTISH PlAy OPENS TONIGHT

; Photo Courtesy of Louise Uffleman

The deed is done. Macbeth (J .D. Martinez) and Lady Macbeth (Adrienne Bryant

By COURTNEY E. MILLER
Phi Features Editor

Tonight’s production of Macbeth
won’t feature men in tights, and velvet,
nor will the audience hear the long
eloquent Shakespearean monologues.
This production of Macbeth, directed
by Andrew Fracher is set in the modern
world, a place just as dangerous and
threatening as that of ancient Scotland.

Guest Director, Fracher, is a native
of Waynesboro, Va. He jumped at the
chance to direct his dear friend and
colleague, Joseph Martinez in the pro-
duction of Macbeth.

‘‘I’m a ﬁrm proponent of taking
Shakespeare out of the museum and
concentrating on what is universal in
his plays,” said Fracher.

Macbeth, the shortest of
Shakespeare’s tragedies tells the tale
of a good man, gone bad. In Macbeth’s
quest for absolute power, he and his
wife are corrupted and eventually de-
stroyed by greed.

Fracher sees great application of
Shakespeare’s contemporary themes.
There are many questions that Macbeth
brings to the consciousness of his audi-
ence, “What makes a good person go
wrong? Is it fate or dark forces from
the outside or are those things simply
part of human nature? What might

aftermath of such an act? Does truth
will out and do those what deserve it
get their just desserts?”

Fracher’s adaptation takes the play
from ancient Scotland to a contempo-
rary militaristic society. The set re-
ﬂects this militaristic style with its metal
framework and austerity.

“I strongly believe that although the
time and place might be very different,
the themes that he writes about and
investigates in his plays are as perti-
nent now as they have ever been,” said
Fracher.

J.D. Martinez will be playing the
part of Macbeth. He is an Associate
Professor of Theater at W&L, and a
graduate of the Royal Academy of
Dramatic A11, in London England.

In addition, he is also a member of
Actor’s Equity Association, and past
president of The Society of American
Fight Directors. As a specialist in
Stage Fight Choreography, he has
authored several texts.

“Seeking a way to portray a
Shakespearean tragic hero is a difﬁcult
and lonely journey. My journey began
with the search for an acting style that
would serve the breakneck pace of the
dynamic tragedy,” said Martinez.

Martinez calls his chosen acting
style “sensational realism.” This style
allowed him to experiment in rehears-
als, the freedom to ignore old habits
thus allowing every moment to unfold

PAGE3

rehearsing for weeks, and set has been
under construction since the beginning
of spring term.

“ The students have been wonder-
fully committed to the project, and my
leading lady, Adrienne Bryant, has been
touchingly patient with the rantings
and ravings of her scene partner,” said
Martinez.

Lady Macbeth will be played by
sophomore, Adreinne Bryant from
Richardson, Texas. Bryant, a theatre
and history major has performed in
three other productions at W&L

A long standing fears of actors in
the production of Macbeth is, “The
Curse.”

One is never suppose to say the
name ofthe "Scottish king." There is a
tradition of tragedy on the production
sets of Macbeth.

If one does acidentally say the
dreaded name, there is a ritual that can
be performed which may lessen the
bad luck.

According to A] Gordon, you should
either turn around three times, and spit
or spit three times and turn around. ‘‘I
never can remember which, so I al-
ways do both just to be sure.”

Macbeth will play at the Lenfest
Center's Keller Theater May 19, 20, 21
and 22. The show begins at 8:00 p.m

For ticket information call the box
ofﬁce. W&L students and faculty re-
ceive tickets to Macbeth for free. How-

drive on human being to murder an-
other and how does one deal with the

with its ownenergy and pace. .
The members of the cast have been

   

'97) after the murder of Duncan in W&L's season ﬁnale of the Scottish play.

The A((lr$

 

Lenfest Center

President's Gala May 26

(Program as follows)

Mendelssohn:
Violin Concerto Movement I
Selections from:
"Evita"
Mozart:
Piano Conceto #23
Movement II and III
Selections from:
"Marriage of Figaro”
Mendelssohn:
"Thanks be to God"

State Theatre

Kiss of Death
Die Hard With a Vengeance
Man of the House

ever, tickets must be reserved in ad-

Vance.

Photo Courtesy of Louise Ufﬂemian

PhumylxnugIadyhﬁmﬁxﬁhsaﬂendant
looksonasshetﬁesu)namovethesun

Kiss Caruso’s movie career gooo|—bye

 

Kiss of Death — {:7 1/2

When David Caruso left TV’s NYPD Blue for a career in
the movies, one name kept popping up: Shelly Long. Many
were certain he was making the same mistake she had,
thinking his success on prime—time would translate to big
box ofﬁce sales.

With Kiss of Death, an uneven thriller also starring
Nicholas Cage, Caruso has failed to prove his critics wrong.
Although his performance is adequate, the movie as a whole
is a let down and very reminiscent of a TV show.

Roughly based on the 1947 movie ofthe same name,Kiss
of Death is_the story of Jimmy Kilmartin (Caruso), a minor
criminal in a world of crime. When he gets a wife and child,
though, he decides it’s time to settle down and straighten
out.

Unfortunately, his friends and relatives are still criminals
— and, like Al Pacino in The Godfather, Part II], he gets
pulled back in. Jimmy only intends to do one more quick job
as a favor to his loser cousin Ronnie Gannon (Michael
Rapaport), but he gets caught and is sent to prison.

All he wants is to leave the undewvorld behind and make
a new life with his infant daughter Corrina. However, the
police know they’ve got a useful informant, and they de-

mand he work undercover to capture the local crime bigwig,
Little Junior Brown (Nicholas Cage). The rest of the ﬁlm
revolves around his attempts to escape both the police and
the criminals unscathed.

Certainly David Caruso’s role will be highly scrutinized
by the critics, to see if he made a good decision leaving the
small screen for the big. Frankly, I’m not so sure this was a
very decisive performance, one way or the other.

On the one hand, about half of the time he seemed to act
with a careful, restrained humility that the role clearly
deserved. The rest of the time, though, especially in the
close-ups, his acting seems to break down.

He reverts back to old television techniques, exaggerat-
ing his actions with a melodrama that seems to forebode an
imminent commercial break, as if he’s got to keep us riveted
to the television so we won’t change channels. In other
words, he often seems to be forcing the emotion and char-
acter development. Nevertheless, I would rather withhold
judgment on the success of his transition until he ﬁlls
another role.

At any rate, the supporting actors are all absolutely top-
notch. Michael Rapaport (True Romance) does an excellent
job as the extremely annoying Ronnie. Other former
Tarantino stars include Samuel Jackson and Ving Rhames,
both fromPulp Fiction, the former as the sympathetic police
officer Calvin and the latter as the mysterious Omar.

And at any rate, it doesn’t matter much how good the
supporting actors are — the ﬁlm is completely stolen by
Nicholas Cage as the moody and asthmatic sadist, Little
Junior Brown. He brings an intensity and insecurity to his
characterthat rivals the psycho-characters of J ack Nicholson,
Dennis Hopper or Christopher Walken.

Despite this dominance, the ﬁlm ultimately fails, as a
result of the sketchy script. Penned by Richard Price, well
known both as an author and a screenwriter (The Color of
Money), it is surprisingly poor. Very much like Caruso’s
acting, it seems more like television than film; the scenes
develop too quickly and the transitions are simply are
incoherent. When this film is ﬁnally broadcast on television,
they will have no problem inserting commercial breaks
between these disjointed scenes.

The only really riveting scene is the ﬁnal showdown
between Caruso and Cage, where director Barbet Schroeder
(Reversal of Fortune) does an excellent job keeping the
action in focus and understandable, without losing any of its
impact and force.

Ultimately, this ﬁlm will be remembered for the excel-
lent portrayal given by Nicholas Cage, which keeps us on
the edge of our seats. Whether it will also be remembered as
the first or merely the only film of David Caruso’s career
remains to be seen.

ﬁﬁfzﬁ-Go by this as soon as it comes out on video. It is an instant classic. “You'll
laugh; you'll cry; and maybe, jusl maybe, you'll learn so " 5 about yourself."

ﬁfth’-Go see this film now, while it's still on the big screen. It's worth a few Oscar
nominations Ind the seven bucks you'll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall, “Better
than Cars!" '

ﬁﬁ-Okay, so there have been better ﬁlms. Nevertheless, it is a good example of its
genre, and you should probably see it on videotape. Srill, probably “Better than Cats!”

1}-It happens to be on HBO, and you‘re blowing off tomorrow's reading. Although your
time would probably be better spent on your education, its free and you're bored, so go ahead
and watch it.

0-Even if its free and your best friend said he never laughed harder, trust me, this one

sucks. Don‘| waste your time, or at lcasl don't waste iron this. (There's always MTV.)

 

  

 

  

     
   
     
   
   

  

 

    
 
 
 
 

PAGE 4

   

 

  
 
 

  

 

 
     
   
 

 

  

'99: Tribute Hedi: Services Inc All Iughu Reserved

 

 

  

  
 

THERE! I GOT THE
ELECTRONIC EDITION

WHADDYA
THINK?

   
   

         
      

\\ :4; .
\:=\\\ II. '. ,///A’!
I - TX

   

A!'V  W ‘x
“-  \\\\\I:\l:III"'.‘ v
- aslil-“I‘}‘-,5"/3' A “"\\\\~.§./'1
  Q\\
Q I.
._\ \\‘_._..

   

   

_995 Tn'h¢ne Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved

CLOSEOUT SALE NOW Lexington
ON ROAD AND
MOUNTAIN BIKES BIKE
ALL SALE BIKES MARKED
DOWN 15%-30% SHOP_
Diamond Back, TREK, Brid estone,   Maln
463-7969

Giant,and Cignal inclu ed
Full warranty and 60 day free service

 
 

‘. Caﬂdayormgh

  

 

 

Plan  
(1-.-305-.-537-p3,517_ (2: an ascomm
for I FREE-:APPl.lCA1'l0Norwnte: . I
. BOX 645;-HOLLYWOOD. FL 33022-

I THINK IT'S GONNA
BE TOUGH TO CLIP
OUT THE COUPONS.

 

   

  
   

  

W;-t'727¢5E&7>0.4’E
$ﬁec¢'a.l¢';w¢ an ¢t«,tamée4

7wuu'twaecwd$4a.de¢.

I9 3. zmuaa 3:.
463-2742

 

 
  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1995 CARTOONS 1'
DAVE _ MIXED MEDIA I
by David Miller by Jack Ohman y
-' e T0
we sumvv e.eT A "$00-$00"? ‘V5 BEE” TM”
1 CH HM How'T0 PLAY
NO BuMP~(§ FINE.
. pm‘ THE CONE ow...
O y
5%

E: |A
_ g.
. Q
7
< IN THE BLEACHERS *
‘ _ by Steve Moore
. V .,
T. -—s.—/’'‘
e—7. .
OK, LISTEN UP. SIMMONS, YOU - M _ 1'
Covtk DODGEBALL. HIGBY, YOU'RE . 
on THE SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING .%..“_,~_:.,..’,....L
{:3 BEAT. . .. AND IGOIA/IT.7_, YOU ‘
COMPILE THE AGATE SCORES
FOR ALL ETERNITY. "
LI Fe IN @1995
GQOENINC, *

A

no OROEKTO cur TAXES. E

SHOE BALAN ce THE BUDGET, AND mctzease 5
oeceuse seenowe, we HAD To MAKE 3

by Jeff N|acNe||y °w95TmmMmsmkm|m SOME TOUGH FUHDNC1 CHOICES. E

Allﬂightsﬂesenred. 5 y

Sportswriters in hell   g

vou some YEAH. MY , I E Z 3
HOME ALREADY? éZh<i7I_«A:(éTFEé2’1I<Z$I Hl_%WUIb0‘I;Ig %
$029.9, BUT _ §

THAT sroot, f 2

wlu. HAVE °

To eo.

Apartment fgr Rent

3 West Preston
Downstairs
Apartment

Within Walking
Distance Of W&L
Campus

Call 261-6478 After
5:00 PM

--——QDQQDGQuD_QCQCCQ&qifJ~.

‘curus titan. lax zzusns. numuoo». rt"!3u22

«I4 I .
n   l_nIt\18A0I|%l‘Il:0JDOGIﬂ;N
A : munppmadimueauey. aoossnuuwnnot
» _ ‘hecudlleudo ‘ I
'  4‘ I ‘ w  I mug ' H
A . llllll‘Al.S—
nmmsmnmmmmnmmrrmnm : C117 sTA'l'E._.zlP_____.
,,.n-£5‘ In ta-u Inns! l PHONE 35"
W In credit checks! | SIGNATURE
mggﬂﬁﬁnsg '0 security 0890!“! ' ll.7lEtbIaOdhII?IeII¢mdeunndI&aQIlhhmlhﬂlc.
¢;I’°,¢1 sun “E cm,“ ton" : vuanoorcosevunuuenndwausxuuumwsahuuuuu
you am" can we Inn"! .

 

Lexingt’S
lively bistro &
Outdoor patio

Breakfast Lunch Candlelight ::
Dinners Fine Wines Importedl
Beers Cappuccino Espresso :
Homemade Baguettes & C roissants :
Outrageous Desserts |

‘ I

I

I

H b ’ '
31' S '
  I

19 W. Washington St. :
703/464-1900 :

T

*4

S

-1

1

 

  
 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1995

Clint illing-tum Iﬁhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Frolicking

The last week of Spring Term evokes contrasting
emotions. Our time here is almost over. We want to
have fun, enjoy the good weather, and spend time

 with our friends before we go home. On the other

hand, we have long papers to write, finals to study
for, and lots of boxes to pack. We all know we should
be responsible, but sometimes it’s hard. What should
we do?

The Phi has the answer: Frolicking.

Last night in the midst of deadlines, editing, and
laying out the beautiful paper you now hold, the sky
opened up in a huge downpour. We spontaneously
took off our shoes, raced out of the office, and ran
across the Collonade in the pouring rain. It was
beautiful. It was cathartic. It was exactly what we
needed. ’

Write your papers. Study hard for your finals. Be
responsible. But every once in a while, take a break.
Dance, play, be silly, and most of all frolic.

Frolicking, Part Deux

It was a dark and stormy night. Well, it was.

The sky did, indeed, open up again. And like the
bolt of lignting that crashed ouside the window of
the Phi office, we bolted out the door, down the hall,
and into the rain to frolic yet once again.

The idea did come up that our entire editorial
board, plus two kick—ass staff writers, could get
arrested for drunk in public and indecent exposure.
A new experience for all concerned, except Dan
Odenwald of course. Although he wasn’t actually
arrested for indecent exposure.

When we returned to the office, the storm became
violent and crashed our computers. The front page
was now a thing of the past. But we were saved by
extraneous staff member and computer guru, Ethan
Krupp. The omnipotent one shared with the staff
some very valuable advice that we’d like to pass on
to our readers: Save now and save often.

Quote of the Week...

“Whaddaya gonna do with the haid?!”
“What?!”

“Who’s got the feet?!”

“Pete ’s got the feet! You want the haid?!”
“Yeah, I want the haid!”

——Shouted conversation between two unidentiﬁed

ii barbecuers on the morning of the D-Hall ’s “PigRoast/

 Volleyball Tournament”

OPINION

  
 
   
  
      

  

1: cm‘-r
BELIEVE
THAT I‘M

  

a

‘ TH“ WEEEAT

 

f_*:____——

 

  

rm etowiﬂév
arr A PAPER‘.

zoi.LMAN‘$...

PAGE 5

‘I

    
  

  
   

I can‘?
BELIEVE
mnf I'VE

 

Been HERE “WI T-
NEVER
F” 3 ms Ler-'1’

 

 
      
     
   
   

  

1' CAN“I'
BELlEV€

hLuMNt
WEEKEN9 I

Student body diversity about real World

 
 
   

MATTIIEW I
GRAVES, ’98

This article is being written in re-
sponse to two articles which appeared
in the May edition of The Spectator. The
two articles are entitled, “An Argument
for a Homogeneous Student Body” and
“The Myth of Diversity.” While I be-
lieve that every university should strive
toward a diverse student body, in this
article, I am going to focus on Washing-
ton and Lee and these two articles. '
The first argument presented in “An
Argument for a Homogeneous Student
Body is that “[a] general lack of respect
or even awareness of the school’s his-
tory and the speaking tradition are com-
monly touted aschanges that have taken
place in recent years.” I would agree
with the writer of this article on this
assertion. There have been many days
when I have walked down the Colon-
nade and only received blank stares
after I said, “Hello.” However, I can see
no logical correlation between this de-
cline and attempting to increase the di-
versity of this student body. The writer
of this article attempts to equate the
decline with “a [lack of] companionship
and camaraderie that arise[s] from ho-
mogeneity.” However, this is only the
writer’s opinion and there is no evi-
dence to support his assertion. From
personal experience, I can ﬁnd no com-
mon underpinning to those who have
ignored our traditions at this school.
The next argument which is pre-
sented by the writer of this article is that
“similarity...allows people to relate to
one another.” He argues, “These traits

allow people to become friends and
associates.” Once again, I would have
to disagree with this assertion. Does
one really have to be similar to someone
to have a friendship with him? While
the reader may have his or her own
answer, I would say emphatically, no.
My personal experiences at Washing-
ton and Lee have led me to this conclu-
sion. I have a diverse group of friends,
some of whom I have next to nothing in
common with.

well. Forcing people together does not
necessarily make them hate one an-
other. Every person that comes to Wash-
ington and Lee, or any other college, for
that matter, is technically “forced” to be
together with people they do not know
and may or may not like. I disagreewith
any assertion which says that whether
these people forced to live together get
along or not depends upon their simi-
larities ‘to one another. I would wager
that every reader could think of one

The next argu— person who cbmes
ment presented is from a background
that as more di-  similar to theirs
verse underclass- whom they do not
men enter the I d l . ’ like; furtherinore,I
schoo_1,__they be-    alm I, would evenwager
comle progres- that 1t ls always thatl(r1rios;l.re]z(ider§
sive y more cou t in o
factionalized.The easy to  someone who
writer argues that common ground comes from a dif-
“a look at Fancy with people, but is ferent background
Dress and . than theirs whom
Zollman’s shows lt not better to start they do not like.
how seniors who  now in a In“The Myth of

have not spoken
with each other in
months socialize
and have a good
time.” He then
goes on to say that
this is less true
with the under-
classmen. Once again, I ask the reader if
this assertion is believable. From my
standpoint, I know that while at Fancy
Dress and Zollman’s shows, although I
did spend a majority of my time with
my fraternity, I did take the time to see
some people whom I had not seen for a
while.

The next assertion is the only one
with which I agree. The author writes,
“Forcing people together does not nec-
essarily make them like one another.”
While this is true, its converse is true as

college environment
rather than in the
real world?”

Diversity,” the au-
thor writes, “Many
contend that as
people are thrown
together with oth-
ers of a different
background, they
will gradually Ieam
tolerance and acceptance. This idea is
false.” The author’s proof of this asser-
tion is “[i]f this were true, South Afri-
can whites would be the least racist
people in the world.” The logic of this
assertion is definitely ﬂawed. There is a
difference between group interaction
and group co-existence. In group inter-
action, the diverse groups will associate
with one another and learn from each
other. In group co-existence, the groups
merely reside in the same areas. In the
case of South Africa, there were laws

forcing these groups to merely co—exist;
once these barriers were torn down, the
slow process of interaction began, and
the first sign of this was the new diverse
legislature of South Africa. At Wash-
ington and Lee, we have no such barri-
ers preventing us from interacting, and
once again from my personal experi-
ence this interaction has been positive
for both me and those with whom I have
interacted.

The writer of these two articles seems
to believe this push for diversity exists
simply to increase the school’s standing
in U. S. News and World Report, but I do
not see this as the reason for a push for
diversity (it is merely another beneﬁt of
this push). The true reason for this push
for diversity is the interaction of which
I spoke previously. My contention is
that our education at this institution does
not end when we leave the classroom.
We constantly learn about life during
our time here.

College should provide the unique
atmosphere of allowing people to inter-
mingle with people of all races, reli-
gions, beliefs and backgrounds. Every-
one should have at least one friend or
associate from the aforementioned
groups. I do not claim that it is always
easy to find common ground with people,
but is it not better to start trying now in
a college environment rather than in the
real world? It is easy to remain ignorant
of the other groups besides one’s own
while at almost any college. However,
the world is becoming increasingly
smaller, and it is becoming more com-
mon for people to have to deal with
people from different backgrounds than
their own. I maintain that any college,
including Washington and Lee, should
be a place where one changes his or her
egoistc tendencies and attempts to see
thing’s from other people’s perspec-
tives.

Ellie iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Hewlett

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord, Cindie Young

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Christine Gamavish, Courtney Miller

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen, Phil Flickinger

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Doug Ghertner

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenni Grant

Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias

Advertising Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Byrd

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂeci the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

Little screwdrivers and broken glasses

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

The other night, I was...uh...um...“hanging out”
in a friend's room until pretty late, and as I sat
talking, the little tiny screw on the left side of my
glasses came loose, dropping the lens into my lap.

(Looking at the paragraph I just wrote, I’m a bit
dubious about the prospects of this column, but
what about that headline, huh? Quite a grabber.)

Anyway, the first thing that came to mind, as
you might guess: “What I need is a little
tiny screwdriver.”

(Sorry I keep doing this, but I just have to
interject again here and say that even though this
whole deal so far sounds like a loosely related
string of sexual and alcohol-related innuendoes,
it's really a series of totally innocuous innuendoes
which only I and the seven-point-five people in the
world who run on my frequency will completely
understand. Fortunately, my pretext is fascinat-
ing. Onward...)

So there I was, late at night, halfway across
campus from my little tiny screwdriver, with my
lens in my lap. _

(I just have to cut in here once again and
reiteratetthese are not sexual innuendoes. But if
you do have any interesting sexual innuendoes,
feel free to type them up and mail them to me at
“aechrist@liberty.uc.wlu.edu”.)

Back to the story.While the glasses-free stu-
dents may not be able to relate, this kind of a
predicament is not the most pleasant to be
in.Everything looks warped and distorted and weird.
This can be good at certain times, but I just wasn't
in the mood, so I got up, excused myself, and
headed across campus from Gaines to my dorm

room high atop Graham-Lees Dormitory.

Of course I didn’t think about this at the time, but
looking back, it was about three in the morning, I’m
about six-foot three and 220 pounds. If I saw myself
coming toward me in the dark, squinting and being
very careful about where I set each next step, I might
be frightened. I tend to think of myself as younger
than everyone else all the time though. I don’t
conceive of myself as physically threatening at all.

So when I was almost home, out in front of
Graham-Lees just before the arch, I fell into step
behind this girl whom I did not know. Before I was
entirely sure what was happening (everything was
blurry and everything), this poor girl started running
full out toward the door and up the stairs.

Can anybody tell me just what the appropriate
response to something like that is?

At first, I was insulted. l’ve been contemplating
something on this subject for a long while. I have
noticed that a lot of times when I fall into step behind
a young woman, or even a couple or three young
women I don’t know, there is this palpable tension
that develops. It doesn’t happen most of the time,
since I know a lot of the people here, but I have
noticed it increasingly lately.

Then I remembered my mother, locking the doors
of our van with her mighty power-locks when she
would see people walking down the street by where
we were driving.lt happened to happen in an area of
town where the people who walked by would hap-
pen to be Latino, and so I associated it as sort of a
casually racist thing to do. I started to think about
that, and how it seemed paranoid to me and even
insulting to the people walking along. Those power-
locks make a very noticeable sound.

Every time she would do this, it would annoy me
more. Until finally, I began to understand why she
did it, when I was driving to school with my little
sister and this scruffy-looking guy walked by. My

finger went automatically toward that power-lock
switch and before I realized what I was doing, the
doors were all locked. What I was doing was not
racist or in any way directed against this man person-
ally (though the noise of the power locks is still
a bit much).

(I realize this sounds rather silly and perhaps a
bit...tortured, for lack of a better word—like an
overly sensitive liberal or something—but I am
trying to recreate my own thought processes here.)

Now, whenever I get in the car, I lock the doors.
If I forget to do it, I do it whenever I remember to,
whether I am reminded by someone walking down
the street or whatever.

So after thinking about that in relation to this
situation I thought to myself, and to this girl: “If you
need to run to make you feel more comfortable, go
for it.” It’s not an issue of insulting anyone or being
paranoid; it’s just a basic issue of feeling comfort-
able and secure in any circumstances.

I don’t know anything about what that girl thought 

or what prompted her breaking into a dead run, but 3327‘

I realize that, even on the other side of the equation, ":
I could probably be a bit more sensitive to the 1
feelings of others, regardless of the knee-jerk reac— 
tion it may provoke in me. It makes me laugh, now, , 3

thinking back on it.

But just know that most men, despite what some -i

may say, would never rape or otherwise assault any
woman. It’s simply so foreign and reprehensible a

thought to most men as to be completely ruled out. >1

And on the other side, it should be realized that

4

when a woman locks her door or walks with friends 3
or even runs for a safe place, even from a man or -

groupof men who untilthen were completely wrapped
up in where they left their little tiny screwdriver or
what their politics paper will be about, that’s prob-
ably just something she has to do to make herself
feel secure.

4
4

u

u
a

a
u

o
u

 

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1995

Awards that make this year worth it

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

With only two more weeks left of
school, it’s time (of course) to give out
the Second Annual Dream Land
Awards of Achievement. As with last
year’s awards, they were NOT decided
upon lightly. I spent nearly an hour
before dinner one day writing them up.
I don’t miss my feeding times, so if this
column is short, that ’s because I stopped
to go eat.

Criteria for the Dream Land Award
(henceforth known as the “Dreammy”)
include 1) Humor Value to Me, 2) If I
Remember It, and (new this year) 3 ) If
It Involves Food.

The ﬁrst category is Most Im-
proved Dream Land World Tour
Stop. The Dreammy goes to Minia-
ture Graceland in Roanoke, which I
visited last year. For those of you who
are unfamiliar with this landmark, it is
a small version of Elvis Presley’s home
that someone built in their front yard.

Elvis songs play in the background 24
hours a day. And the neighbors spend
their free time watching their property
values plummet.

Accompanied by Phi reader Paul
Byerly, I returned to Miniature

Graceland and was delighted to ﬁnd
Mr. and Mrs. Epperly had added a very
tasteful gold-looking life-size statue of
Elvis next to their front porch. From a
certain angle it could appear to be some-
thing out of Godzilla in that the statue
could come of its base and start walk-
ing across the little buildings, crushing

fer the “Happy Holidays” greetings
from their cars to unauthorized, law-
abiding parkers.

The Dreammy can also be a dubious
honor in the category of Worst Beer
Known to Man. This was given to
Coors’ Artic Ice, the beer too cheap to
afford the “c” in “Arctic.” It’s not often

them. Maybe thatlcommenton
even Elvis could the subject of bad
breathe ﬁre. beer, but this stuff

The Dreammy has got to be some
for Best Ex- typeofmajorjoke
ample of Lex- among Coors’ ex-

ington Logic
goes to the Lex-
ington Police De -
partment. At
Christmastime,
instead of ticket-
ing cars parked
for too long on
city streets, the
policeofﬁcersput
“tickets” that said

 

ecutives who are
curious as to how
much a college
student will take
before he snaps
and starts drink-

ing water.
The Best
New Food

P r 0 d u c t
Dreammy goes to

“Happy Holi-

days” and did not contain a ﬁne for the
violation. This is, indeed, a nice thought,
but, strangely, the officers put the ve-
hicles’ license plate number, time of
day and other punitive information on
the greeting, because maybe they had a
lot of time on their hands. Or perhaps
the ofﬁcers didn’t want people to trans-

LETTERS

new Taco Bell ﬂa-
vored Doritos. If you’re like me and
you often enjoy six or seven individual
serving size bags of Doritos, there’s
nothing better than that burrito after-
taste. One only wonders how long it
will be before we have McNugget-
ﬂavored Doritos or, better yet, Long
John Silver’s Doritos.

The Dreammy for Best Gum
Product goes to the makers of the
Game Boy Bubble Gum Trading Cards.
I must first explain my new fascination
withcollectingthingsmadeoutofgum.
Besides the Game Boy product, my
favorite is the compact disc I own made
out of gum. Anyway, the Game Boy
gum comes, of course, in a little
Nintendo Game Boy box. The gum is
also the same size and shape as the
trading cards inside, which could mean

"you’re might be in for a surprise if you

reached for a piece of gum in the dark.

This year’s ‘last Dreammy is for
Best Use of Student Funds, and
hands down the George Clinton con-
cert wins. W&L students, dressed in
their khakis, FD shirts, lacrosse hats,
and bucks got their money's worth
when they got to watch the multi-col-
ored dreadlocked President of Funk
strut on stage dressed in what appeared
to be someone’s old sheets, with men
in wedding dresses dancing in
the background.

Who needs the Glenn Miller Or-
chestra playing softly in the gym at
Fancy Dress when you can have Parlia-
ment Funkadelic reverb off the metal
walls of the Pavilion? And it was on a
school night, too!

Have a good summer, and buy me
some gum, would you?

Dean’s List and Honor Roll changes
amount to disincentive to students

An open letter to President-elect John W.

Elrod:

Dear Sir,

Recognizing as I do you are active educators of our
young adults and I am a parent of two of those students
and that our vantage points may be in opposition, I
would like to comment upon the faculty decision on
Dean’s List and Honor Roll grade point averages.

The Dean’s List and the Honor Roll are both
honorable achievements at Washington and Lee. Sim-
ply being in attendance at that prestigious University
is an honor. Have you considered that by making it
more difficult to achieve those honors might in fact
backfire and cause students not to try harder, but to
give up, considering the desire to achieve those goals

impossible? I have!

Reward for hard work is essential to continue in
any pursuit. Each of you is fully aware of that. If you
received less money for the same number of hours

all the faculty?

Calyx

Students interested in free ’91 , ’92
and ’94 copies of the Calyx may
pick them up outside the Calyx of-
fice in the University Center.

Face Book

Student organizations interested
in advertising in the Freshman Face
Book should contact Emily Giannini
at 462-4941 for more information.

GENERAL?

NOTES

 

Outing Club

All Outing Club equipment on
loan needs to be returned to the
equipment room. If students have
equipment checked out, they must
return it on Monday May 22 from
2-4 p.m. or on Thursday, May 25
from 3-5 p.m. only. Students will
be ﬁned for any loaned equipment
not returned by 5 p.m., May 25.
Any questions about returning
equipment should be directed
to 462-4075.

work you might possibly not put in quite the effort you
would if you received a considerable increase in
monetary remuneration. Thus my thinking in terms of
student effort. Why bother? Maybe this is a simplified
example, but basics are what we are talking about.
What exactly are we trying to tell these students? You
aren ’t as smart as you think you are? ...or in order to be
smart you must be smarter than the sum total of

Let’s think about the outcome. Do you want fewer
students graduating with honors? If so, why? Do you
want every student to know it is possible for him/her
to achieve honors at least sonre of his/her four-year
education at W&L? That might encourage each stu-
dent to continue the long hours to reach their goals. If
you make W&L an impossible place for a “well-
rounded” group of students to achieve success you
will no longer have a “well-rounded” campus. It has
been my understanding that you do not want to be-
come a Yale or Harvard where only the 1600 SAT
student can survive. Am I wrong?

I’m. not suggesting grade inﬂation so everyone
is on the Honor Roll or Dean’s List, but I do think
achieving that honor once in a while for everyone
certainly would boost student morale.

Life outside the campus will provide challenges
of greater proportion that this. I do realize in the
beach of sand which represents life this dilemma
perhaps could be classiﬁed as a single grain of

sand. Don’t turn it into a solid rock mountain. .. grains

of sand will do just ﬁne.

I am proud of each student at W&L and the
faculty who challenge them daily. All of you are
doing marvelous work. Don’t forget to congratu-
late each other often and genuinely. You will
continue to be surprised the rewards the “pat on the
back” and words of encouragement can bring.

...from a parent who will continue to be proud of
her W&L students whether or not they are
“honor” students!

Lisa Wooldridge

Student Jihad
vandalism misquoted

To the editor:

The distinguished members of the Student Jihad, Lexington Chapter, would
appreciate a correction to last week ’s Ring-tum Phi. The sign that was left in
Washington Hall did not read, “We don’t give a s* * * about U. S. News and World
Report.” It read, “To hell with U. S. News and World Report.” The Student Jihad
does not condone the use of profanity on any of its signage. We would appreciate

more accurate quoting in the future.

Student Jihad

Editor ’s Note: Every effort was made to get an accurate quote of the contents of

the sign leﬁ‘ behind in the Student J ihad/ Washington Hall attempted vandalism
incident. Security oﬂicers gave us the quote we printed. The Ring-tum Phi stands

by its original quote.

Photos and Interviews by Betsy Green

"DXIKBACK

MY V-IEW
Steve Williard, ’97

A studentat Washington andLee
is presumed to act honorably at all
times. A sense of mutual trust and
respect surrounds all aspects of a
student ’s life at Washington
and Lee.

This statement on student con-
duct comes straight from the White
Book that every student pledges to
have read at the beginning of his
freshman year. Apparently, some
aspects of student conduct are j ud ged
to be exempt from these standards.
Our Honor Code that we boast of
and hold so dear apparently has
some gaps.

I have in my possession two stu-
dent body notices. I took them and
kept them because I didn’t believe
what I was reading the ﬁrst time.
According to one, a notice from the
Executive Committee, a student was
dismissed following a Student Body
Hearing for cheating on a set of
Chemistry problems. This young
man now has his transcript stamped
with the word ‘dismissed’ and has a
permanent black mark on his
record—for cheating on chemis-
try problems.

The second notice is what actu-
ally disturbed me the most. It came
from the Student Faculty Hearing
Board. The notice said all that
needed to be said: “The SFHB found
a Washington and Lee student in
violation of University policy re-
garding sexual misconduct, includ-
ing unwanted sexual contact, forced
sexual contact, and physical contact
with sexual intent.”

The frightening part ofthe notice
was in the second paragraph and
can be summed up in three words—
not kicked out.

While the penalty may seem
harsh to some (suspended from
W&L for a year with re-admission
contingent of counseling from both
a University and non-University
counselor, and banned from the Uni-
versity during the suspension), the
fact remains that this person was not
kicked out.

No violation of trust is too small
to be ignored, for we understand
that honor is not measured
by degree.

This statement also from the
White Book is, along with the ﬁrst,
preached to W&L students from the
day that they walk onto campus.

One professor referred to the acts
described by the SFHB notice by
saying, “That’s the ultimate viola-
tion of trust.”

The fact that the offending stu-
dent was not expelled is not only an
embarrassment to the University, it
is just outright in error according to
the standards of this community.

I definitely have my doubts re-
garding the single-sanction system,
but as long as it exists, let’s consider
the message that these two
notices send.

We are saying that cheating on
chemistry problem sets is a more
heinous offense than sexual assault.
Where is the equity in that?

Also, why are cases such as that
not dealt with by the EC? And I say
cases in the plural because I know of
at least one other notice of slightly
less strongly worded content. In that
case, the student was just not
even suspended.

Some will say that this was a

Honor vs. honor: 9
Single sanction
has no meaning

campus life incident and not in the ‘
classroom. However, another stu-
dent was kicked out of the Univer-
sity this year for lying to police
regarding a car accident, and be-
sides, what happened to the phrase
“surrounds all aspects of
student life”?

First of all, if someone commits
an act such as this, they do not
deserve to be at the University. If
we want to boast of our beloved ‘
honor code, then we should un-
equivocally revoke any privileges
that the offending student enjoyed
as a member of the
W&L community. »_

If we continue to deal with inci-
dents such as this as we have so far,
then we have no honor code, we
have a beautiful facade that we call
an honor code.

Sexual assault attacks the vic- 3'
tims at the very core of their being.
Recovery can be agonizingly slow
and painful.

Our society no longer tolerates
such behavior with an air of accep- *'
tance, so why should Washington
and Lee?

W&L is not the only school with
this problem. At the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, a
track star plead no contest to rape. V
At first, he was not even going to be
removed from the track squad.

Then only a concentrated and
effective protest by the campus's
women’s groups kept him from 1,
being allowed to keep his four-
year scholarship.

I have also heard some say that
sexual assault is not a widespread
problem at W&L.

Anyone who says this is incred- y
ibly ignorant. I myself know of
instances of sexual assault, or in-
tense harassment. Also, what about
the rape that occurred in the dorms
last year? Whether or not a W&L P
student was directly responsible, it
still happened.

Reporting a case of sexual as-
sault is by no means an easy task.
Most victims just want to put it V
behind them as quickly as possible.

Returning to the immediate is-
sue of the student who was only
suspended for a year, if the SFHB
had it in their power to expel this ,
student, then we must seriously V
question the members of the board
as to why they felt sexual assault
warranted less of a punishment that
cheating on a test or, in the
case of the other notice, a
chemistry problems.

They are the ones who have to
sleep with their decision. I j ust hope
they realize how big a mistake
they made.

It is high time that the students 3
and other members of the W&L
community stand up and say that
this sort of behavior will not be
tolerated and will be dealt with as
the crime that it is. )

Honor and trust are constants,
whether it be at a fraternity party or
in the classroom. As long as we deal
with an issue like sexual assault
differently from cheating, then
we insult our sense of honor
and justice.

All I can do is lay out my opin-
ion, but until there is more of a
reaction to this sort of inequity, the
system will not change. If we even
want to claim the existence of an
Honor System, we owe it to our-
selves to deal harshly with those
who choose to steal the very es-
sence of their victims.

Layout by Alex Christensen

What is your dream summer job?

Alison Simmons, ’97, Mem-
phls, TN—“Renting umbrellas and
surfboards at the beach”

Cyrus McCormick,
Rockbridge County, VA——“Reap-

mg

Katherine Sawyer, ’97, Ellsworth, ME and Stephanie Sterling,
’97, Glastonbury, CT—-“Getting paid lots to hang out at Goshen.”

 

Ali Kappel, ’98, Wheeling,
W V——“Lifeguarding on a beach in the
Bahamas.” '

‘I

Betsy Green, ’97, Moline, 
IL——“Anything that does not involve
Talkback.”

 

4 The Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1995

Winter scholar-athlete list numbers 71

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

At a time when tensions between
academics and all extracurricular or-
ganizations seem to be rising, there
stands one sharp contrast: Washington
and Lee’s Scholar-Athlete Honor Roll.

The list for the recently completed
winter term was recently announced
by athletic director Mike Walsh.

There were 71 honorees for the win-
ter term, bringing the total number of
athletes honored this year to 103.

Members of the list are participants
of W&L varsity athletic teams who
achieved at least a 3.5 GPA during the
winter term.

The harmony achieved between
mind and body this year has led to a
very successful year for scholar-ath-
letes. W&L has had seven athletes
named to the GTE Academic All-Dis-
trict teams through the fall and winter
seasons.

Sophomore volleyball player Eliza-
beth Bahn, a native of Olympia, Wash-

ington, was named to the GTE Aca-
demic All-America third team.

W&L’s sports teams have also re-
corded great successes. W&L has won
59% of its sports contests (as of May
10), and the Generals have captured a
record seven Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships.

The teams that took home ODAC
crowns were men’s and women ’s cross-
country, golf, men’s lacrosse, women’s
swimming, women’s tennis, and
women’s track.

In the friendly team GPA competi-
tion for winter term, the women ’s cross-
country team Scored top honors with a
phenomenal 3.411. The highest men’s
team GPA was also the cross-country
team with a 3.209.

These two groups have clearly put
to rest the notion that one must be crazy
or stupid to run such long distances for
enjoyment.

In all, 10 out of 20 W&L sports
teams recorded GPAS above a 3.0.

Scholar-athletes actually com-
mented that playing varsity sports in-
creases needed personal discipline.

Senior lacrosse player Nicole
Ripken, recently honored along with
teammate and fellow scholar-athlete
Carrie Niedereras first team All-ODAC
selections, commented, ‘‘It just means
you have to balance your time a little
better. l’ve always had time for both,
though.”

Freshman tennis player Natalia
Garcia, who recently became the first
W&L woman to ever reach the semifi-
nals of the singles NCAA Division III
tennis championships, remarked that
her difficulties in balancing sports and
studies faded after the beginning of the
school year.

“It was actually good [for me],”
Garcia stated. “It helped me when I got
out of class to have to go play tennis. It
was a real stress-reliever.”

Both Ripken and Garcia also dis-
agreed with the recent notion that
W&L’s high academic standards hurt
the school in comparison to other
ODAC and nationwide teams.

Garcia noted, “Those schools that
don’t have the pressure definitely have
more time to train, but I don’t feel it’s

Senior Night, Wednesday, May 24
at 6:00 p.m. in Lee Chapel
(Rain Plan: Evans Dining Hall)

°Brief remarks by Dean of Freshman Dennis G. Manning
°ClaSS photo on the front lawn of the Colonnade
°Buffet dinner and reception sponsored by the Alumni Office

°Entertainment by Wildgrass

°BuSiness attire

Iﬁiiimuuus
liﬂlliﬂﬂ

W&L Art

R.E. Lee

Signatures

(703)464-6464

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

Sunday: 11 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.

L;n____.

 /

that big of a disadvantage. Anyone
who plays tennis does so because they
like it, and they don’t really have other
[more important] motivations.”

Most importantly, Ripken and
Garcia also found that faculty and staff
in both academics and athletics showed
understanding of the pressures involved
in balancing the two.

‘‘I think they both know that you
have commitments to both, so they try
to be reasonable,” Ripken reﬂected.

Other notable scholar-athlete hon-
orees included: sophomore swimmer
Nathan Hottle, NCAA Division III
champion in the 200-yard breaststroke;
senior lacrosse player Shaun
McKenzie, a candidate for All-America
honors; and juniorlosephine Schaeffer,
who has twice won All-America hon-
ors in cross-country, and has also pro-
visionally qualiﬁed forthe1995 NCAA
Division III outdoor track champion-
ships.

These honorees are reminders that
it is possible to participate well both
inside and outside the classroom si-
multaneously.

Senior Nicole Ripken will wind up her lacrosse career
in the North-South game on June 9 at Johns Hopkins.
Ripken, the Generals‘ 3rd all-time leading scorer, will
be one of the seven attack players on the South squad.

HI RAM COMPUTER SYSTEMS THANKS ALL THE W&L
STUDENTS FOR THEIR CONTINUED AND INCREASING
SUPPORT OF OUR BUSINESS. WE CONGRATULATE
THOSE OF YOU GRADUATING AND WISH YOU GREAT
SUCESS IN THE FUTURE. AND To THOSE OF YOU RE-
TURNING NEXT FALL, CONGRATULATIONS FOR COM-

PLETING ANOTHER YEAR AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO
SERVING YOU NEXT YEAR.

GOOD LUCK, HAVE A GREAT SUMMER
HI RAM COMPUTER SYSTEMS

203, N MAIN ST
LEXINGTON

E. Nelson St., Lexington

.7Iia¢'7/a&ze

HARDWARE STORES "
Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. — Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.

The Ring-tum
Phi:
An important part
of the daily diet.
Contains half as
much as fat as other

Sun_ 1 _ 5 pm campus publications.

463-2186

HELP WANTED

Men/Women earn up to $480
weekly assembling circuit
boards/electronic components
at home. Experience unnec-
essary, will train. Immediate
openings in your local area.
Call 1-602-680-7444
Ext. 102C.

SPORTWE/*1‘
lllllllll
Ills ll '9

THE SOURCE
FOR W&L GEAR

11 Washington St.
Lexington
464-5000

WANTED

Driver to take car to
San Francisco Area
in July.

Call 463-1744

$kYDiVE ViR9iN 8A!

Train and make your first parachute
jump in one day. Skydive Virginias
staff has 30+ years instructional expe-
rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-
DIVE.

Social Chairman
RUSH Chairman
contact: ’ '— Dondem. Inc-
17-1/2 Randolph
Leidngton
463-2618

  

Last Week:

WTENNIS: W, 5-4, vs. Trinity (TX) in 3rd-place game
of NCAA Division III championships. Natalia Garcia
and Marilyn Baker won the individual doubles title.

FOOTBALL; Junior Robert Hull was chosen as The

Sporting News‘ 3 Division III preseason defensive
player of the year.

  

PAGE 8

 

By Ksmr GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Their career together began
rather inauspiciously.

As individuals, they had each
garnered both national and inter-
national recognition. Teamed
together, they did not know what
to expect in the ooming year.

On their first day as doubles
partners, freshman Natalia Garcia
turned to her elder partner, senior
Marilyn Baker, and said, “Don’t
be afraid to tell me anything,
because I don’t know what I’m
doing.”

Nine months later, Washing-
ton & Lee women’s athletics
earned its first ever national
championship on Monday, as the
doubles team of Baker/Garcia
brought the NCAA Division III
title home to Lexington.

The third-seeded duo won a
three set match, 6-3, 5-7, 6-2,
over the second-seeded team of
Alice Han and Tracy Erickson
from Gustavus Adolphus in the
championship match at Sweet
Briar College.

The win was the third straight
three-set victory for the Generals
tandem en route to the champi-
onship, and it was no easy ride.

Along the way, Baker and
Garcia posted a 6-0, 7-6 win over
Hope, and a come-from-behind
3-6, 6-0, 7-5 win against a team
from Luther to set up a semifinal
battle against the defending na-
tional champions from Williams
College.

Baker was familiar with the
Williams pair of Becky Mallory
and Julie Greenwood, having
faced them in March with junior
Helen Chandler, while Garcia
was away, playing in the Federa-
tion Cup for her native Domini-
can Republic.

It was not until that match that
Baker and Garcia felt a national
championship was within their
grasp.

“That morning, before the
Williams match, we decided we
could win it,” said Baker.

The Generals took the first
set, 6-4, but were defeated in the
second set, 6-2.

In the decisive third set, Baker
and Garcia did not even make it
close, blowing out the defending
champs, 6-1. '

Baker believes that the con-
secutive three-set victories gave
her and Garcia confidence as they
went along, instead of wearing
them out.

That confidence would show
again in the final.

The W&L duo cruised out to
a5-1 lead inthe opening set. Han
and Erickson, though, refused to

S

Ellie ‘ﬂing-mm iﬂlii

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, TENNIS, TRACK, LACROSSE

give in, and battled to win the
next two games, but the Generals
managed to close it out for a one
set lead.

In the second set, Baker/
Garcia jumped out quickly to a 2-
0 advantage.

The Gustavus team again put
up a gritty defense and took four
games in a row.

The see-saw affair continued
as W&L won the next three for a
5-4 edge, and was within one
game of the championship.

With their backs to the wall,
Han and Erickson once again re-
fused to quit, and fought back to
win the set, 7-5.

“That was a heartbreaker,”
said Baker of that second set.

So Baker and Garcia had to
once again dip into that third-set
experience for what would be
theirﬁnal set togetheras a doubles
team.

“We had a mental edge, I
think,” Baker said. “But, also, I
think our desire to win was greater
than theirs.”

Although they dropped the
first two points of the decisive
set, the W&L pair won the first
game, and then broke Gustavus’
serve all four times in the set.

A Garcia forehand down the
line on match point ended the
incredible run and began the cel-
ebration.

“[Being a national champion]
feels really good!” said Baker,
who is a four-time NCAA par-
ticipant in singles.

“I don’t think l’ve really com-
prehended that we’re NCAA
champions, yet. Right now, it’s
more important for me to say I
won my last match. You’ve got
to feel good knowing you’re go-
ing out a winner.”

Both Baker and Garcia were
already proven winners long be-
fore they added a national title to
their collection.

Garcia, at age 14, won the
German Open. She has fre-
quented international tourna-
ments, was named the
Intercollegiate Tennis
Association’s regional Rookie of
the Year, and finished the NCAA
singles competition in the semi-
final match.

Ironically, Garcia had never
played doubles before coming to
Lexington and pairing up with
Baker.

“She’s capable of doing what-
ever she sets her mind to,” said

We are the champions!

File Photo

Senior Marilyn Baker, along with freshman
Natalia Garcia, captured the Division 1]] doubles
championship this week at Sweet Briar College.

Baker and Garcia bring home title

her admiring partner.

As for Baker, her collegiate
career could hardly have ended
any better.

She helped the Generals to a
third-place finish in the team
competition,eamingtheﬁrstever
NCAA trophy won by a W&L
women’s team.

In the singles tournament,
Baker * advanced to the
quarterfinals for the second time,
and ended her career with ex-
actly 100 victories.

Finally, Baker, last year’s re-
cipient of Tennis Magazine’s
Arthur Ashe Award was this year
named the ITA Player of the Year.

Her next stop is the Van
DerMeer’s Tennis Academy in
Hilton Head, SC, where she will
train full—time and participate in
semi-professional tournaments,
with the hopes of qualifying for a
pro event.

The 1994-95 season could
hardly have been a better one for
the W&L pro ram.

The 21-2 enerals finished

third in the nation after beating
Trinity (TX) last Friday, 5-4.

W&L’s only two losses came
against national champion
Kenyon, 5-4 on both occasions.

Against Trinity, Washington
and Lee won two of the three
doubles matches.

However, singles got off to a
bumpy start as everyone except
sophomore Anna O’Connor lost
their first set.

O’Connor won her match in
stright sets, 6-0, 6-1. Baker (lost
the first set, 6-4), and freshman
Ericka Shapard (lost the first set,
6-0), came back to win their
matches in three sets to lead the
Generals to the victory.

The completion of the team
tournament also marked the end
of the careers of seniors Melissa
Malone and Cathy Gartin.

Gartin posted an 11-2 singles
record this year, and finished her
W&L career with an astounding
35-4 mark.

During their four years as
Generals, Malone, Gartin and
Baker saw the W&L women’s
tennis program emerge from a
mere regional threat into a na-
tional power.

In recognition of her team’s
achievements, head coach Cinda
Rankin was named the ITA’s
Coach of the Year.

Rankin ’s seven-y ear record as
head coach stands at 127-22, and
the likes of Garcia, Shapard, Julie
Ayers, Shelly Sunderman, and
O’Connor, ensure that the Gen-
erals are bound to be a national
power for years to come.

Yet, for Baker and Garcia,
their one year together will not
soon be forgotten.

 

This Week:

WLACROSSE:

Senior Nicole Ripken will play for the

South squad in the North-South all-star contest

on June 9.

   

1995 major—league baseball season promises excitement

   
     
  
   
  
 
    
  
 
 
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
 

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Major-league baseball has finally re-

turned.

The players’ strike, which eradicated
the remainder of the 1994 season, also
deprived us of the opportunity to follow
some of the best divisional races in recent
memory. When the season suddenly shut
down on August 12, three of the divisional
leaders possessed advantages of one game

or less.

We were also unable to see the play-
offs, which were supposed to expand to

include four teams in each league.

Since we never found out how last
season turned out, predicting the outcome
for this season becomes increasingly

tougher. However, I’ll give it a shot.

The Phillies are a prognosticator’s
nightmare. They were picked to finish last
in 1993, and won the NL pennant. Last
year, with expectations again high, the

Phillies ﬂopped to fourth.

In 1995, many have chosen them to
ﬁnish last. So where are they currently?
Philadelphia has the best record in base-

ball at 15-5.

The Phillies own one of the best of-
fenses in the National League, and thus
far, their patchwork piching staff has held
up. Although the Braves are heavily fa-
vored, as long as the bullpen doesn’t keep
blowing up like it did with a 7-3 lead in the
9th inning at Florida on Tuesday, the
Phillies could do the unthinkable and run
the gamut. And Mitch Williams isn’t even

around anymore...

As if Atlanta didn’t have enough talent,
it acquired Marquis Grissom. The Braves
began the season by burning out to a 6-1
record, but then were promptly swept at

home in four games by the Phillies.

Still, Atlanta’s starting pitching is
clearly the class of the league. Nor-
mally that would be a recipe for a
championship, if it weren’t for a bullpen
that is currently the front-runner for the
Steve Bedrosian Most Blown Saves in
a Season Award. Also, the Braves’
lineup is fairly young, meaning that
Dave Justice, who recently pierced his
navel, will be counted on to be a club-
house leader.

Montreal was the best team in base-
ball in 1994. That is until management
decided to open a Wal-Mart in
Montreal, and practically gave away
Larry Walker, Marquis Grissom, Ken
Hill, and John Wetteland. The Expos
still return plenty of young talent, led
by Moises Alou, but it is very unlikely
Montreal will come close to last
season’s performance.

Florida, with Gary Sheffield and
several key free-agent signings, looks
to contend one of these years.

The Mets actually have some life,
and are no longer the pushovers they
were in 1993. However, their main
goal for 1995 is to cease being the butt
of Letterman jokes.

a

NL£en.tr.aL

As they did in 1994, the Reds and
Astros should once again battle it out
for ﬁrst place.

Cincinnati by far starts the best
lineup in the division, but its pitching
drops off sharply after Jose Rijo and
John Smiley. A 1-7 start to the season
didn’t help much.

Houston, with Jeff Bagwell and
Craig Biggio, possess some of the best
young players in the league. A solid
pitching staff should guarantee that the
Astros will be in the hunt.

Chicago has gotten off to a hot start,
but the Cubs don’t have history on their
side; they haven’t won a World Series

 

since 1908. Maybe on the 50th anni-
versary of their last pennant, “The Cubs
win! The Cubs win!”

St. Louis vastly improved its pitch-
ing during the offseason and could be
a factor.

ls Pittsburgh ever going to ﬁnish its
rebuilding?

This division is the most wide-open
in baseball, with all four teams
conceivingly having a chance to win it.

 

The

me
e r s
keep
shut-
tling
ies of t h e
Year u p
from
their mi-
H 0T‘ Photo by Eileen

Blass, USA Today

P_‘P°' David Justice
line, but
until

they ﬁnd a bullpen and replace Jose
“E-6” Offerman at shortstop, they will
not win it all.

The Rockies have an offense that
could outscore the Broncos, and are
playinginanew park, Coors Field. All
the elements for a division title, until
one sees a staff 5.15 ERA in 1994.

Although San Francisco boasts
Barry “Me First, I Second” Bonds, and
Matt Williams, who was on pace to
threaten Roger Maris's single-season
home run mark in 1994, the Giants’
starting pitching requires prayer to en-
dure the season. Rod Beck may be the
best closer in baseball, though.

It would seem San Diego is ﬁnally
heading in the right direction. Then

    

one sees 7,000 fans in the stands, and
the ancient Fernando Valenzuela on
the mound. At least Tony Gwynn
might hit .400 this season.

This division should shape up as the
best in the American League, with as
many as three teams competing for the
one wild card berth.

The Yankees are a no-brainer pick
here. Jack McDowell joins a team that i
already owned the best record in the
AL last year.

The addition of Andy Van Slyke
and closer Doug Jones should eventu-
ally pay dividends for the Orioles, al-
though it hasn’t thus far. However,
more eyes will be on whether Cal
Ripken is able to break Lou Gehrig’s
consecutive game record this year.

Boston and Toronto both start po-
tent lineups, although the Red Sox are
without the injured Jose Canseco.

Of course, the Blue Jays will re-
ceive another chance to defend their
1993 World Series title. Paul Molitor
will attempt to bat over .300 for the
11th consecutive season.

This all means Detroit will need
divine intervention to stay out of the
cellar again this year.

AL_Cs*.ntml;

This should ﬁnally be the year that
Cleveland steps up and captures the
division crown. It is hard not to like the
Indians, with rising stars such as Albert
Belle and Kenny Lofton. Jack Morris
even retired, too.

Despite whatever Big Hurt that
Frank Thomas may inﬂict, the White
Sox replace Darrin Jackson and Julio
Franco’s 149 RBIs with Chris Sabo
and Mike Devereaux. Hmm...

Milwaukee defied small-market
logic by storming to the best record in

MAY 19, 1995

 
     
         
     
     
      
         
       
        
        
       
     
       
       
         
       
     
     
     
       
         
         
       
       
       
       
       
     
       
     
     
          
       
   
     
         
     
     
     
   
     
   
   
   
   
     
   
     
     
     
     
   
   
   
   
     
   
     
     
     
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
     
   
   
     
   
   
      
   
     
   
   
   
      
 

baseball at one point, but why doesn’t
the rest of the AL seem frightened yet?

Kansas City attempted to change
itself into Montreal West by dumping
the salaries of Brian McRae and ace
David Cone.

Minnesota probably wishes the re-
placements were still playing.

I’m going to defy conventional logic
and predict that one of these teams will
finish with a winning record this year.

The Rangers, who finished first in
1994 despite a 52-62 log, are the best
candidates. However, their perenni-
ally loaded offense always manages to
underachieve, as it has early on this
season.

Seattle, with two superstars in Ken
Griffey, Jr., and Randy Johnson, will
hang in the race, and will try once again
to win its first-ever division title.

Oakland is enjoying a blast from the
past with the signing of pitcher Dave
Stewart, and Mark McGwire’s power
resurgence. But the A’s need another
huge season from ageless closer Den-
nis Eckersley to make some serious
noise in the AL.

That brings us to...California. This
ragtag outfit earned the dubious dis-
tinction of finishing last in this pathetic
division in 1994. Somehow, the An-
gels have managed to grab the early-
season lead, and in this wacky division,
stranger things have happened.

If nothing else, the signing of Mitch
"Wild Thing" Williams should inject
some energy into this franchise, and
put some fans in the stadium, whether
or not they cover their faces with tow-
els and throw toilet paper.

One thing is for sure: as long as the
Wild Thing is hurtling off the mound
somewhere, there will never again be a
dull moment in baseball.

 

 

 

