   

K .jte(‘<i§E'*’1,= 1
VA

A in?‘

 

¢ :. ‘#4.;
.£

racial mi arise»:-. 2’
v A Lie‘: irmllnetc K"

.  za. ,w,!irr

i-‘§9=i-

Foreign

Student:
good, bad

 

Water Polo upsets
Buchncll, readies for
Richmond rematch

U112 ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

VOLUME 94, NO. 5

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 7, 1994

 New DUI laws claim 3 students

it.

   
  
   
   

By DAN ODENWALD, ANNE ALVORD AND
Emu BAKER
of the Phi Staff

breathalizer tests to everyone in the car, but
only after Christ was removed for a sobriety
field-test.

“First, they checked my eyes with the ﬂash-

The newly-enacted drunk driving law that
makes it illegal for those under twenty-one to
drive with a blood alcohol content level of 0.02
or higher nabbed two victims from Washington
and Lee University over Homecoming Week-
end. The third came early Thursday morning.

Around 1:40 a.m., freshman Erik Christ and
six passengers were on their way to Lee-Hi
Truck Stop when he was pulled over near the
Stop-In convenience store for a broken tail
light. He was subsequently arrested for driving
under the inﬂuence.

The third student arrest since the new law
came into effect July 1, 1994, clearly indicates
that the Lexington Police are not taking the new
law lightly.

Senior Aki Nichols was a witness to the
most recent arrest. He saw that the police had
stopped the vehicle which Christ was driving
and commented that the car was full of “mostly
drunk people.”

Apparently, the police administered

light,” Christ said. Next, he was asked to walk
nine steps in a straight line, turn around and
walk back. Finally, he was asked to hold his
foot up in the air for thirty seconds. Christ
performed these tests adequately. Nichols said
he believed Christ to only have had one drink,
and Christ said he “was sober.”

After the sobriety test, the police adminis-
tered a breathalizer test. Christ’s BAC levels
ﬂucuated dramatically between two separate
administrations around the legal limit of 0.02.
This granted them sufﬁcient cause to arrest
Christ for driving under the inﬂuence as a
minor and he was taken to the Rockbridge
County Jail.

The car keys were given to another passen-
ger in the car whom the police deemed sober
enough to drive safely.

At the County Jail, Christ was given yet
another breathalizer test. His BAC was found to
be 0.03. Christ was formally charged with driv-
ing under the inﬂuence and faces stricter penal-

ties for being under twenty-one. Later Christ
told arresting police that he believed he was
capable of driving and had only one drink.

An interviewing ofﬂcer told Christ that with
a BAC of 0.03, “even if you can recite the
alphabet or walk on one foot, you’re legally
drunk. It’s like one hit of cocaine is against the
law —one drink is against the law for a minor.”

He pointed out that had the incident oc-
curred before July 1, police would have recom-
mended Christ have someone else drive, but he
would not have been in violation of the law. The
interviewing ofﬂcer added that since this was
Christ’s ﬂrst offense, the judge may be lenient
with him.

He also said that since the law was fairly new
and untested, there may be some legal loop-
holes that may extricate him.

Sergeant Joe Rader of the State Police ad-
ministered the breathalizer test in the County
Jail.

“Under the new law, it’s illegal for a minor
to drive with a BAC over 0.02 in Virginia. It
became effective July 1,” he said.

Arresting officer Mark Riley said, ‘‘I pulled
the car over for a broken tail light.” It was only

after an investigation of the car’s driver and
passengers that Riley suspected alcohol. Given
the fact that Christ was a minor with some
alcohol in his system, it became evident that
Riley would need to make an arrest.

He pointed out that the legal limit for a
twenty-one year old to drive is a 0.08 BAC.
This is four times as much as the legal limit for
an underage person. ,

Had Christ been of age, the arrest would
have never occurred. “Basically,” Riley said,
“if you’re under twenty-one you can’t consume
alcohol and then drive.”

Penalties for violating the law include revo-
cation of one’s license for a six-month period,
a $500 fine, and attendance of an Alcohol
Safety Action Program. Rader pointed out,
“The idea behind these laws is to keep young
kids from driving drunk.”

He added, “Students need to be aware of the
new law because Virginia has one of the tough-
est D.U.I. laws in the nation.”

Upon Christ’s release around 4:00 a.m. from
the County Jail, he ironically said he felt, “a lot
more sober than I should feel after being ar-
rested” for driving under the inﬂuence.

The court date is set for October 18 and
Christ jokingly asks, “if someone could find
him a free third-year law student” for represen-
tation.

When asked by The Ring-tum Phi if the new
law has been effective, Lexington Police Cheif
Bruce Beard said, “lt’s still too early to tell.”

If police continue their rigorous enforce-
ment of the law, and the trend of arrests contin-
ues, W&L students will have to re-examine
their attitudes about drinking and driving.

Beer sales at the Pavillion show that stu-
dents may already be modifying their behavior.
Sales at the beer garden have dropped at this
year’s two concerts. While normally beer from
all six kegs are sold, only two and a half kegs
have been sold at each of the concerts.

This is odd, says Mike Young, Director of
Security, because “the amount of bodies in the
beer garden has been the same.”

“We haven’t seen the amount of intoxica-
tion at concerts this year,” said Young.

One possible reason for this, said Young, “is
the DUI laws.

People may be being smarter about the
amount of alcohol they consume.”

 

.9‘

By CINDY YouNG
Phi Staff Writer

Houston A. Baker, Jr. spoke
as the guest of honor at the 13th
annual Shannon-Clark lecture in
a packed Northern Auditorium
Thursday night.

4 Since the late 1960s, Baker
has made significant contribu-
tions to the ﬁelds of criticism,
theory and creative writing of
African-American literature

‘ and culture.

A native of Louisville, Ken-
tucky, Baker received his
eduaction from Howard Univer-
sity, University of Edinburgh, and
University of California at
Los Angeles.

‘ Baker is currently director of
the Center for the Study of Black
Literature and Culture, Profes-
sor of English, and Albert M.

4 Greenﬁeld Professor at the Uni-

versity of Pennsylvania.

According to Professor
Severn Duvall, who introduced
Baker, the “central thesis” of
Baker’s work is that the “appro-
priate way to appreciate black
literature should not derive from
white culture,” but rather
from the “black literary
tradition itself.”

Baker began his speech en-
titled “Everybody Knows The
Real Thing, But Magic Brings
Us Home: Multicultural Notes”
with a story from Greek and Clas-
sical lore. In the tale, the artist
Zeuxis painted a picture of grapes
so realistic that it fooled even
birds.

Baker followed the story by
questioning what, in fact, Real-
ism is. This he intended to ex-
plore, in terms of
multiculturalism. Baker drew
first on his own childhood expe-

riences in a 1940’s America

that wouldn’t recognize
other cultures. .
America, Baker argued, lost

forever its Old World culture
with the introduction of the Af-
rican slave trade. He sees mod-
ern American culture as dis-
tinctly “New World,” a
blending of several and even
many cultures.

To reinforce this idea, Baker
borrowed a quote from James
Baldwin’s Stranger In The Vil-
lage : “The world is white no
longer, and it never will be
white again.”

There is no returning, Baker
says, to past cultural traditions.
We are now, and permanently, a
society of many cultures, one of
“multiculturalism.”

What Baker refers to as “that
elusive present day vocabulary
item,” multiculturalism has

Photo by Ethn p, he Ring-tum Phi

‘Baker speaks of magic
and multiculturism

many connotations in today’s
world. Baker explains the word
can apply to situations as differ-
ent as “curriculum reform in New
York,” and a “food festival in
the sunny Southwest.”

To Baker, multiculturalism
is a “real, artistic thing” that
“goes to the very heart of
education...in, of, for, and by
art.” This art occurs when the
borders dividing different cul-
tures blend together. Baker as-
signs the tenn “magic realism”
to this moment of blending.

Baker closed his speech in a
moving rendition of a poem by
Michael Harper, entitled “Our
Supreme Hope.”

Baker returned to his seat
amidst enthuisiastic applause
from the audience, and spoke
with W&L faculty and students
alike in the ensuing reception in
the Boatwright Room.

Foreign Student not received Well

A By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

were overwhelmingly negative.
“Terrible. It was a horrible portrayal of

The movie theater audience roared with
laughter. You would think you were watch-

4 ing a new Eddie Murphy film or, worse yet,
a third installment in the Pauly Shore series.

You’d think.

Actually, the movie was Lexington’s
widely anticipated “Foreign Student” star-
ring Marco Hofschneider and Robin Givens.

S The film was a love story, not a comedy or,
at least, it wasn’t supposed to be. Reactions

 

of the ﬂlm.

the book and the time period,” said Joanna
Soto. She was refening to the 1950’s setting

Her friend added, “l wish I’d been there
for the first two seconds when they showed
the Colonnade and then left.”

Courtney Macmillian thought, “It was
corny, but very sweet,” although she did add
that she wouldn’t see it again. Her daughter,
Rose, had a different opinion. “It sucked.”

Most of the problems with the movie
seemed to be with Givens’ overacting and

the forced and cliched dialogue. One female
member of the audience enjoyed
Hofschneider very much, but thought,
“Robin Givens overacted terribly.” She be-
lieved the dialogue was simply “laughable.”
Her male companion added that the “narra-
tion ruined the movie.”

Several laughs came during the Thanks-
giving scene when Phillippe was seen writ-
ing Given’s name, “April,” in his mashed
potatoes. Several viewers actually seemed
to be writhing in pain at the forced romantic

luv See MOVIE, page 5

Two Homecoming
ﬂoats lose riders

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee students
were thrown from two homecom-
ing ﬂoats during the parade last
weekend.

A freshman pledge of Pi Kappa
Alpha was thrown from his
fratemity’s ﬂoat and several mem-
bers of Kappa Kappa Gamma also
fell from their sorority’s ﬂoat.

According to Lexington Police
Chief Bruce Beard, the PiKa ﬂoat
was coming to the end of the pa-
rade route by the Lenfest Center
for the Perfonning Arts, where
Lexington Police Sergeant T.H.
Penderson was directing traffic.
The driver pulling the ﬂatbed
trailer, PiKa sophomore Atticus
Gill, was told to turn right, but
wanted “go left, back up Nelson
St.,” said Beard.

Penderson approached the ﬂoat
and told the driver to go left. Gill
then “backed the ﬂoat up (to turn
right), gunned the engine, and

jerked the float,” according

to Beard.

It was the jerking of the ﬂoat
that caused freshman Andrew
Curry to be thrown some 45 feet,
according to the report.

“He ﬂew off the back of the
trailer, hit the ground and then hit
his head against the bumper of a
stopped truck,” said Mike Young,
Director of University Security.

An ambulance took Curry to
Stonewall Jackson Hospital
where he was treated for cut on
his chin, a bruised jaw, and a
bruised side of the head, and then
released, according to Young.

When contacted, Gill who was
charged with reckless driving for
the incident, said he was, “guilty
of nothing and intend[s] to take
the case to court.”

Gill said that he did originally
want to turn left, but when the
officer “got in his face,” he re-
lented and agreed to back the
ﬂoat up.

“I was forced to back the trailer
up, something I did not feel com-
fortable doing,” Gill said. He then
“put it in drive and accelerated.”

The acceleration was from
zero to ﬁve miles an hour, ac-
cording to Gill, who also said
that “[Curry] rolled no more than
15 feet. Simple physics say
[Curry’s fall] can’t happen.”

Gill wondered how he could
be charged with reckless driving
if there were “ten guys and a
loosely attached sign” on the ﬂoat

during Parade

that did not fall off. The whole
thing was an “over-reaction of
the Lexington Police Depart-
ment,” according to Gill.

Curry said that he was not cut
on his face, but on his shoulder.
He also said he did not blame
Gill for the incident. Curry has
been subpoenaed for Gill’s court
date and feels that they are “in
this together.” Curry said he was
just in “the wrong place at the
wrong time.”

Kappa sophomore Hollis
Leddy and two other Kappas also
fell from their ﬂoat near the in-
tersection of Jefferson St. and
Washington St’.

Leddy said the ﬂoat was
stopped and the three Kappas
“were standing on the back of the
ﬂoat” when the driver “started
up again.”

She said that they were not
anticipating the acceleration and
fell onto the concrete in front of
the ﬁre engine that was follow-
ing them in the parade. Others
Kappas who were standing in a

shoe built on the ﬂoat fell onto
it when the car pulling the
trailer accelerated.

Leddy said no one was hurt
and they “just got up and ran
after the ﬂoat.”

A

:5‘; 3 (.5 \.

i-7‘}l%’.é?5?3‘7""‘ ’

=_ #7. <_ x,  3 ..

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World

 
 

Aristide planning to return to Haiti soon

Formerly exiled Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide promised to
be home within days in front of the UN General Assembly. Aristide said
in his speech Tuesday that he is committed to reconciliation and recon-
struction. Haiti’s former head of police Michel Francois fled to the
Dominican Republic Wednesday. Aristide suggested that Haiti’s two
remaining leaders follow Francois’ example, as he did not plan on granting
amnesty.

U.S. drops satellite sales ban

The US dropped the ban on exporting high-tech satellites to China on
Tuesday. The ban came after Beijing secretly transferred missile compo-
nents and technology to Pakistan. China agreed not to sell or transfer
certain surface-to-surface missiles. Officials say the agreement is an
important step in US-China relations, even though China has broken such
agreements in the past.

Earthquake hits Japan

One of the biggest earthquakes in history has caused few damages and
casualties. The quake, registering 8.2 on the Richter scale, struck 12.5
miles beneath the ocean ﬂoor off the coast of Japan’s island of Hokkaido
Tuesday night. Authorities say 16 people died in the quake, which later
generated minor tidal waves between 3 and 6 feet high.

Failed cargo door locks to blame for ferry

accident

Investigators say failing locks on the front cargo door were responsible
for the sinking of the feny Estonia last week. The ship sank off the coast
of Finland, killing over 900 people. Videotape taken underwater of the
wrecked ship confirmed survivor’s stories that the huge door had either
leaked or broken completely off the ship.

Plague contained to India

Medical examiners can find no spread of the plague outside India. Six
countries have investigated suspect cases ﬂying in from India, but have
found no travelers with the disease. India reports 4,780 cases of the plague
and 5 1 deaths. The disease is caused by exposure to the plague bacillus and
can be transmitted through the air.

The Nation  __

Paul Hill prevented from using justifiable

‘ homicide

A Florida judge barred a former minister accused of killing an abortion

. clinic doctor and his bodyguard from arguing that the killings were

justified as part of his defense. Paul Hill tried to justify the killings as being
necessary to prevent abortions. After the ruling, the former Presbyterian
minister dismissed his lawyers and announced he would represent himself.
Hill is charged with the July 29 shooting of the two, and of wounding the
doctor’s wife.

., Newspaper kicked out of Simpson courtroom

Judge Lance Ito revoked the courtroom seat of the Los Angeles Daily

" News in the O.J. Simpson murder trial. The paper printed parts of the juror

questionnaire before it was released by the court. Judge Ito has attacked the

5'‘ electronic media for irresponsible coverage of the case, and is considering
 barring television cameras from the court room.

5”"? Supreme Court opens fall session

The Supreme Court opened its fall session Monday. The Court opens

it with a smaller docket than usual, partly because it denied all appeals made

during its three-month summer recess. A downward trend in the Court’s
. docket began in the late 1980’s, due partly to a change in the Federal law

 governing the Court’s jurisdiction.

 The State

'_; North and Robb close in polls

Oliver North is ahead of Charles Robb in the race for senator, according

v- to a recently released opinion poll. However, the margin for error is greater

than North’s lead, so either candidate may actually be ahead. North’s

' improvement came at a time when Douglas Wilder’s withdrawal from the

. race was expected to increase Robb’s support. Vice President Al Gore

joi-ned Robb at a campaign appearance in Roanoke last Friday. President

- Clinton also joined Robb to endorse him on Monday at Tyson’s Comer. On

North’s side, former White House Chief of Staff James A. Baker ﬂew to
Virginia Tuesday to campaign for the Republican candidate.

‘I Disney drops Haymarket park plans

, The Walt Disney Co. dropped its plans to build an American history
theme park near Haymarket. Supporters of the proposal are disappointed
that the area will not receive the economic boom the park would have
generated. Opponents, however, are glad not to have to pay in taxes for the
roads the park would have required. The Walt Disney Co. is still looking
at other places in Virginia to host the park.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily
Baker.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1994

 
 

ff to the tropics

 

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ri

ng-tum Phi

 

 

Lambda Chi Alpha’s homecoming ﬂoat was the star of Saturday's parade down Lexington’s streets. Above, members
of Lambda hula with W&L junior Tonya Uplinger in front of First Union bank on Main Street. Lambda captured the
coveted Mink trophy with its tropical-themed ﬂoat. The second~place was captured by Pi Beta Phi sorority. The
sorority’s float featured a large bee and sorority members dressed in khakis, white shirts and ties to sing the
Washington and Lee Swing with one notable exception: instead of “Roll those Wahoos on the sod,” they sang, “Roll those
Yellowjackets on the sod.” (The homecoming game was versus the Randolph-Macon Yellowj ackets.)

    

64 foreign students enjoy Virginia
countryside While attending W&L

By CINDY YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

“Washington & Lee University is
pleased to receive and review applica-
tions for admissions from international
students,” reads the W&L Catalogue
for the 1994-95 school year.

This year, 64 students accepted this
invitation, and are now here
on campus.

As Ann Rogers, Director of East
Asian Studies, says, “we have a rich
diversity of countries represented
this year.”

A sampling of the different couri-
tries from which these students came
includes Russia, Spain, Bulgaria,
Egypt, Peru, the United Kingdom, Ja-
maica, Switzerland, South Africa and
the Netherlands.

All in all, this year’s international
students hail from thirty—one countries,
and nearly every continent.

Of these students, 46 are non-resi-
dent, non-citizen degree candidates.

Eight international students at W&L
are participating through an exchange
program or are studying as non-degree
candidates, and the remaining 10 stu-

Society for the Arts gives
W&L students an outlet

dents are U.S. citizens currently
living abroad.
Why study in the United States?
An exchange student from the J apa-
nese university Kansai Gansai, Maki
Kawaguchi chose to attend school in
America because she “wanted to study
something that had
real meaning.”
Her courses in
Japan had all been
English classes.
German student
Arne Holick-
Kuhlmann, ’98 adds
that the “style” of
teaching is so differ-
ent from that in his
home country. In Ger-
man universities,
hundreds of students
are often in one
class together.
Asked why they
chose this school,
these students have varying responses.
Robin Howe, a freshman from the
United Kingdom, explains that this was
“the first school I’d heard of.” A decid-
ing factor for him to attend W&L was
the fact that “everybody loved it here.”
Terence O’Hare, also a freshman,

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer

ties and sororities.”

“It was excellent because it was a showcase for

student talent,” she said.

 

Rogers

chose W&Lbased on its being “a small,
good school on the East Coast.”

Arne Holick-Kuhlmann simply
“read about it” in college information
guides, and “sent for more inforrna—
tion.” He liked the information he re-
ceived, and applied.

Having worked
with many exchange
students both from
America and abroad,
Ann Rogers offers a
general explanation
on why W&L itself
might appeal to inter-
national students.

“We are a small
school,” Rogers em-
phasizes, which is to
say “we [professors]
offer fairly close su-
pervision [of stu-
dents].” The close
student-teacher rela-
tionships that set
W&L apart even from many American
schools are unusual for the universities
of most foreign nations. In addition to
these reasons, the strong academic
character of W&L is by no
means unimportant.

Upon arriving here, the social life of

Student artists searching for a social outlet have a
new organization called the Society for the Arts.

Senior Jonathan Van Dyke said he founded the
organization because some students saw a need for it.
According to their mission statement, the Society for
the Arts seeks to foster “an awareness of all the arts,
including the performing arts, the fine arts, and
creative writing.” The organization also seeks to
create a forum for student artists and students who are
interested in the arts to congregate.

Van Dyke founded the organization last spring.
Their first event was a poetry reading at the Liberty
Hall Ruins, featuring Ashlie Kauffman,Temple Cone,
Matt Jackson, Jonathan Van Dyke, Jake Berman, and
Sarah Drain. Junior Julie Powell also organized a
farewell recital for junior Meagan Miller who is now
attending the Julliard School.

The concert also featured the performances of
Herman Safin, ’94, David Wilmington, ’94, and
Hilary Rhodes, ’96.

This year the Society for the Arts sponsored an
acoustic coffeehouse concert, featurin g juniors Bryan
Boland and Tommy Esposito.

Van Dyke said the concert was well attended. He
said it showed a need for alternative social activities.

Sophomore member Sarah Anne Ryder said she
heard a lot of feedback about the concert.

“I thought it was a very good way for men and
women to mix,” she said. “Usually it’s just fratemi-

Powell said students are becoming increasingly
interested in coffeehouses. She said at least two more
coffeehouses are being planned. Neither have stu-
dent musicians.

Ryder said the organization is planning a fall
poetry reading at the Liberty ruins in the next
few weeks featuring Temple Cone and some
other readers.

“It’s a good opportunity to hear what students are
writing,” she said “It’s generally an appreciation for
different types of work.” She said the organization is
working closely with Student Activities Coordinator
Michelle Richardson.

She said they are tentatively planning an arts event
that would include painting, drawing, musicians,
theater, etc.

“It would be an interesting way to show what
W&L has to offer,” she said.

According to the proposal presented to the Execu-
tive Committee budget hearings, the organization is
tentatively planning four poetry/prose readings and
will continue to feature student musicians. During
the student art exhibit, the Society will sponsor a
purchase prize for one outstanding student art piece.
It will pay for the framing and arrange that it be hung
on campus. Powell said there is a need for a avenue
through which students can showcase their talents.

“It was formed for people who are artists,”
she said.

Washington and Lee often provides
not a little surprise to international
students.

Maki Kawaguchi expresses a cer-
tain degree of amazement at the strength
of the fraternity system on campus.
“There’s no such thing as a fraternity”
in Japan, Kawaguchi remarks. The
amount of money spezit on bands and
parties here seems, to her, amazing.

Robin Howe echoes this surprise.
The fraternity system, Howe says,
“blew me away.” But he has since
pledged and is “having fun!”

Fun, after all, is the purpose of study-
ing in an international setting, along
with the obvious educational beneﬁts.
American students interested in enjoy-
ing this opportunity are invited and
encouraged by Ann Rogers, on behalf
of all the faculty, to study abroad.

Rogers extends a warm welcome to
anyone wishing to spend a term or a
year in the People’s Republic of China,
Hong Kong, Taiwan, or Japan to in-
quire about applications in the East
Asian Language Center. Applications
are due November 1.

W&L students interested in foreign
studies elsewhere are encouraged
to seek information from that
respective department.

 

 

‘I/l/@“L ife

Nostalgic, slow-paced film an essential
part of the W&L experience

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The Foreign Student is a small ﬁlm. View-
ers should appreciate for what it is: a whimsical
look at college life and pressures in the South in
the 1950s.

I saw the ﬁlm the first day it opened in July
in Washington, and the three other people in the
theater and I enjoyed it.

Unfortunately, Foreign Student had poor
advertising support and came out amid a clutter
of other ﬁlms with more starpower than Robin
Givens and Marco Hofschneider.

Though I cannot prove it, I also believe the
ﬁlm’s poor box ofﬁce revenue (a little over
$100,000) is also directly related to my perfor-
mance in the ﬁlm ending up onthe cutting room
ﬂoor.

Not that I am bitter; it’s just that I now swear
I will never, ever again do a ﬁlm with Robin
Givens in it.

Despite my disappointment, there were
plenty of other W&L faces in the movie.

The small town feel of W&L translates well

I guess I am biased, but I think the ﬁlm
wouldn’t have looked authentic in any other
setting. The ﬁlm is slow-paced, and that deﬁ-
nitely adds to its appeal. Foreign Student is a
ﬁlm of nostalgia that seems as if it were an oft-
repeated dream.

Marco Hofschneider is perfect as French
student Philippe Leclerc.

Philippe is the perfect innocent in love and
friendship and practice.

He rides his luck through college in a way
that endears him to the audience.

When he is arrested for drunk driving he is
rescued by a professor who scolds him as if
were a child.

Hofschneider makes the child believable,
and the audience forgives him for not living up
to American expectations and practice.

My favorite part of the ﬁlm is its soundtrack,
which is unfortunately unavailable.

Philippe goesintoabluesclubwhere Howlin’
Wolf and Sonny Boy Williamson give several
performances.

Little Richard songs also pop up in the ﬁlm.

Foreign Student is worth the five bucks. See
it so you can say you did. It’s part of the

Corny lines, dragging

 

PAGE 3

 The Foreign Student garners mixe reviews

All Foreign Student photos are publicity

 

    

 

photos

in the movie.

W&L experience.

script plague ﬁlm

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

When I went to see the Foreign Student, I
was aware of the negative press surrounding
the movie, but I wanted to give it a fair chance.
I had heard the book the movie is based on was
am enjoyable one and that some scenes had
been ﬁlmed here, but this was all.

After seeing the movie, I can safely agree
with the bad reviews it has received, and I can
give it one more.

The movie starts of slow and drags its feet all
the way through with a few exceptions. The
entire plotline seems contrived and forced. The
two leads, Marco Hofschneider and Robin Giv-
ens, do not relax and enjoy themselves in the
love the script says they have found. The major-
ity of the lines that are supposed to be romantic

, are just too corny to been taken romantically.

' The movie was enjoyable during the scene

‘ at the black nightclub. The arguing about
whether or not Phillippe would get in was
enjoyable. The blues performance by Howlin’
Wolf was well done and a pleasure to listen to.
Other than the scene with the Colonnade in it,
this was the only time I enjoyed the movie.

I think the worse part of the movie was at the
end when Phillippe and April are upstairs
together while the English professor read the

. ' romantic Byron poem downstairs. Throughout

the scene, the actions of Phillippe and April
match the actions described in the poem. It was
exactly the sort of corny acting that my Drama
1 teacher in junior high described as “crap.”
During this scene, her hatred for this poor
acting was all I could think of.

The Foreign Student tries to hard to be
something it can never be. It wants to be a
sweet, romantic, lovely movie so badly that it
tramples all of the emotions Hofschneider and
Givens were able to act out.

Hgpitched yels, gorgeous red hir

   

complement wonderful movie

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

When I saw my gorgeous red hair ﬂash
across the screen, I knew it was a good movie.
(Yes, I was in it, Richard! Four times!)

Despite the fact that Marco Hofschneider’s
screams of glee at the end of the football scene
sounded like the squeals of a baby pig, despite
the gratuitous Sharon Stone-like sex scene be-
tween Marco and Robin Givens, the Foreign
Student was a wonderful movie.

This is the stuff that cult movies are made of.

I will never forget those high-pitched
“Yay!”’s of Hofschneider after he beat all the
odds and threw the football into the end zone to
win his friend the quarterback a new Caddy.

Nor will I forget that great scene where Howl-
ing Wolf, the big bad black blues singer from
Chicago, takes “Phillippe” under his wing,
which, incidentally, was the best part of
the movie. TI
Let's forget for a moment that the movie was
based so loosely on the book by Philipe Labro
that none of the important scenes had any basis
in fact. Let’s pretend that this was a purely

F fanciful movie about what Washington and Lee

would have been in the 1950’s with girls.
have got it about right. V.

You can be sure that there were many stu_;
dents like Cal (played by Richard Johnson), the
star football player whose parents were alco,-'
holics and was headed down the same road
himself. Someone arriving at his fraternity house
in the middle of the night, alone and drunk, was
more frightening for Phillipe and April than it’
would have been for any current or former
students of W&L. ‘

Good acting, expert ﬁlming characterize The River Wild 

4 By MICHAEL HEwLEr'r
Phi Staff Writer

Cumutte and Maher will rumble
5 into town Thursday, October 13 to
perform in the General Headquarters at
9 p.m.
Student Activities Board Entertain-
ment Director Drew Denbo said the
A acoustic band will consist of Steve
Cumutte and Matt Maher. He said there
will be a percussionist with bongos and
cymbals, which will’ add another di-
mension to the music.
Denbo said the band plays fun mu-
4 sic and they have great faces.
“lt’s a little bit folksy,” he said.
“There are elements of the blues and
rock ‘n roll.”
He said there is a lot of interaction
1 between the musicians and the crowd.
' He said they are funny, nice guys.

Cumutte and Maher play folksy mix of blues and rock 'n roll

He said acoustic music is becoming
popular among college students.

“They’ve risen in the acoustic mu-
sic scene,” said Denbo.

Cumutte is originally from West
Virginia, and Maher hails from New
Jersey. They met while attending Wake
Forest University. They now reside in
Nashville, Tennessee. Maher majored
in English while Cumutte majored in
English and Philosophy. Although they
have not any formal musical training,
they have taken several private
guitar lessons.

Their ﬁrst album was Think Again.
Their most recent album is Rumble of
the Ages. They cite Bob Dylan, John
Prine, and Paul Simon as major inﬂu-
ences on their music. The band has
played Lincoln Memorial University,
Andrew College, Gordon College, and
other schools.

The doors open at 9:00 and will cost
$2 with beers costing 75 cents. The
band will play until approximately
11:30 p.m. Soda will be free.

By KIRKSUSONG
Phi MovieReviewer

 

The River Wild - itiirik

This latest ﬁlm from Meryl Streep
features her in a role we might not
expect to see her in, the heroine of an
action ﬂick.

The ﬁlm is The River Wild, a very
good drama that is clean and uplifting,
yet still tense enough to satisfy the
most disgruntled college student.

Streep plays Gayle, a teacher and
mother whose marriage is on the rocks.
Her husband Tom, played by David
Strathairn, is an architect who can’t
seem to leave the ofﬁce behind — in
fact, work almost prevents him from
going with his family on a river-
rafting vacation.

The project ofa family rafting in the
western wilderness for several days is
not as difﬁcult as it might seem, be-
cause Gayle grew up in the area and
was in her younger days a daring
river guide.

Thanks to this experience of hers,
two men whose guide ran out on them
in the middle ofthe trip persuade herto
help them down the river, too.

And so the stage is set, as the ﬁve
people in the two boats make theirway
down the river.

But things soon begin to seem
strange, and what was meant to be a
great family bonding
experience crumbles.

One ofthe men, Wade (Kevin Ba-
con), befriends the young son, Roarke,
and slowly begins to press himself on
Gayle — separating Tom from his
family even further.

However, Wade goes a little too

far, and the family decides to leave the
two men behind and continue on down
the river alone.

At this point, the masks come off,
and Wade and Terry reveal their
true colors.

They are actually thieves who held
up a local cattle auction, and they are
being clevercriminals and makingtheir
getaway down the isolated river.

But their plan has an extra element
other nature enthusiasts wouldn ’t take:
they want to go past the normal stop-
ping point, into an area the park service
has long since decided was unsafe,
the Gauntlet.

In this narrow run, three rivers come
together all at once, and drop almost
three-hundred feet in less than a mile.

And, since neither Terry nor Wade
is an experienced river guide, they force
Gayle to lead them safely through
the Gauntlet. V

The remainder of the ﬁlm is a battle

between the family and the criminals,
as they progress down the river.

What is most remarkable about this
ﬁlm is that it does not succumb to some
sort of pretension about making the
movie’s conﬂict between man and na-
ture, or between Gayle’s present and
her past, or anything overly compli-
cated or academic like that.

Rather, the script, written by Denis
O’Neill, stays true to a much more
entertaining, lively and
obvious conﬂict.

The tension is in Ward and Terry
versus Gayle and Tom, or more often,
simply between Ward and Gayle.

The result is sort of strange, because
some of the lowest moments of tension
in the ﬁlm are when the ﬂimsy rafts
enter the thundering, destructive white
water rapids.

So the grandeur and power of the
setting — the majesty of the panoramic
mountain backdrops and the roar of the

“Better than Cats!”

go ahead and watch it.

always MTV.)

Rating Scale

ikikikrfri —— Go buy this as soon as it comes out on video. It is
an instant classic. “You’ll laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe, just
maybe, you’ll learn something about yourself.”

ikikrﬁr — Go see this film now, while it’s still on the big
screen. It’s worth a few Oscar nominations and the seven
bucks you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall,

an — Okay, so there have been better films. Nevertheless,
it is a good example of its genre, and you should probably see
it on videotape. Still, probably “Better than Cats!”

it’ —- It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off
tomorrow’s reading. Although your time would probably be
better served on your education, its free and you’re bored, so

No stars — Even if its free and your best friend said he
never laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks. Don’t waste
your time, or at least don’t waste it on this. (There’s

rapids — essentially just add beauty to.‘
the ﬁlm, providing a good canvas for:
the characters to work on. ,1
What makes the ﬁlm work so well,‘Z
then, is the fantastic acting. ,'
I am not much of a Meryl Streep;
fan, but she dismissed all my fears 3
about her action-film potential infi
this movie. 
She presents as realistic and pow-.:
erful perfonnance as the character could’. :
possibly give. 
The same can be said of her co-.1
stars, Kevin Bacon and Davidl;
Strathairn,aswellasofJoseph Mazzelo, 
who plays the young son Roarke. 
They keep the dialogue tense and
the scenes brisk by never over-acting. ;;
It would have been easy to ham up .1
the characters in a ﬁlm so fraught with i =

s
4

melodrama and high-wire tension, but 
they manage to keep level heads on I;
the characters. ;;

Kudos also go to the director, Curtis _ j

Hanson, for his refusal to over—shoot 1;

the ﬁlm.

The pace and direction of the river 
provide all the movement this 

ﬁlm needs.

Thus, the director is able to take a 
very relaxed ride down the river of this  :

plot-line.

In the end, the movie reminded me I

very much of Stallone’s Cliffhanger, E
as they are both wilderness thrillers.

1

But in this ﬁlm, that spectacular .1
backdrop doesn’t interfere in the ten- 33
sion the actors themselves provide, but 1 I
rather augments it. 5 3

This ﬁlm is also able to provide a 3;
handsome moral at the end, as the con-  ,
ﬂict reunites a broken family, redeem- 1 »

ing Tom in the eyes of his wife and son,
and bringing Gayle back to the height
of feminine fortitude she enjoyed in
younger days.

If you are looking for a good drama,
well acted, well shot and well scripted,
The River Wild is perfect.

You will not leave the theater feel-
ing disappointed.

 

 

The Riizg-tum Phi, October 7, 1994

W&LIF E

  

 
    

        

 
  

 
    
     
      

   

  
 

IF )0!-IN MADDEN WAS
IN THE A (ommeumron o~ C-SPAN...
BLEACHERS
by Steve Moore
TVE GOT A ‘"6552... IT  HERE
BAD FEELING THAT ON“ 50% OF

. M w~:j:“M“ MMMM ALL AMERICAN5 A“

g 5“ :::g::::;:; :2 ,,
MIXED MEDIA ,«,
by Jack Ohman


J ‘I;  A.
i is
.5
I I
/a»7 ri¥z:]3:—_
7 r
| «o7\/Hg
E
 we NON rsounurr E ,
I DON'T an: IF YOU'RE gr 2° *
me FATllEK,MR.TllAYER. 5; g
ll‘ You CllANT‘WllooMR 3 “ , ,
THERE ms’ ONE MORE a 3’:
TlMEl1’LLHAVE YOU & '*
REMOVED FROM THE V53
“   mfg V
Y-‘ i i  I ‘ I ‘ll 44 If "4
\Vll'—:—J/     “ l ~
I
in  I ~
I i 0 E G (;  «O  &  " . .
~» Tho flu’:    *-151111’ iillllilliiglfilfl I
H CHJ (Or ‘*0 ‘fork ‘Ami Iow {N ‘GI’ For more information, call x4236
l ;; ' 7)
31: ' W ” E " '1 :;_our:_:>Tr2iA.N
;: Valley 7/zgg  l H I R , c:r_.oTLlrNq.TAcr4..Jr_:_\\/r;_L_
V HARDWARE STORES '3‘ I ' ,
:-i,‘L O .
. ' Hardware, Palm, and Related Items I by Marie’ Robin’ Km 8‘ Barbara | NT
‘: 1' I Call for MARrE!S I rrr:_M:> N coop cor~DmaN \\/r;r_coM;_
‘ Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 am. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. I Agpoiggnem 11 South Jefferson I I ' \v'\vAbLhNqT0N ‘5TIZE‘E'T ‘I
A ENI St L ' t 4 63' 88 Lei vr is 24450 ""‘“""""“‘°"*°"”"“"“""
 . e son ., exmg on 63-2186 t___ _ __ _ __ __X_l29f(_)_t'l.__l'g_l_1 _a__ _ J i 705 45_4__9500 _

 9i"aﬁ\.’\‘o<M7l7G€'l'A‘:‘9( ~ ~--

       
       
     
     
       
     
     
   
     
    
 
  
  

  

6 %   I A Eliliptnniinn  nit ftlhgie 
  Einbien nmuii ﬂrnlnnz 

§
E
' ‘ -  Fri., Oct. 7 - Ruley Brothers
  Sat, Oct. 8 -  Anderson

  
    
        
     
     

   

Kel|y’s rner

On Rt. 60 (Nelson St), 2.5 miles west of Le)dngton

 

“The tradition continues”

Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea.,
delicious BBQ sandwiches $1.39

 
    
    

   

; 3\’nmher1s3522}\ias.T1m_rs'’ Oct’ 13 ' Tom Goodrich  7-Up,A&W root beer, RC, cream soda-  4,,» I W _
 Fr1., Oct. 14 - Tlm Reynolds  3cans/$1_oo :. ,‘ I  In or on,
E: Sat. Oct. 15 - Electric Emotion  Reg. Unleaded Gas-$1.039/gal. j  P _
Amazing Late Night Breakfast  Unleaded P'us-$1-1°9/9a'- * « Lunch or Dinner
:::L",:‘:fl‘;‘.;"2'i'2‘1.‘“.‘:;  T,,,,,:e:;9:;:‘g::,-;:;i%$4o9 News week ~
Monday Night Football ' 40Ib. ice-$4.99 In
- 24N h ' .
Specials - 5 P,n1, - 1 a,m,,. AsAIways, We Provide The Best ~~ §;_5’;%” 5‘ I .

Service For The W&L Community

Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

20¢ wings, $3.50 Burgers

1
1-‘—"’.#av~-V

      

   

‘  .r'15E:'
2 -: ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... -~ .-.».« .-.~.-x.;.’-¢.-.;

Open7Days 463-5452

 

3 Symptomsofalcollolpoisorring ' ‘DO YOU Want Credit Cards? ' I UNI—cARD.Box 220645.-HOLLYWO0D.FL 33022 4.

a 1. Person is unconscious or semi- . ' ' '

I ‘ d otbe k . .

2 2. z::i:.°';:::::,  _Now ,.,.. .,,. hgvc .,.. ....,.,. recognized   . YES. -ma msrmcmno um-ma-my. .

5 3-ggfgfgihfjggggfejmsugislgwless credit and In the world even IF you ARE NEW In I row. GUARANTEED! I ‘
I irregular, with ten seconds or more CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED IXJWN BEITDREI | |

Z betvveen breaths Mmtercardo the credit card‘ you I I

: 4. Vomiting while "sleeping" or passed dggcg-we and need fol-H. [])._ﬁ)0Ks—-DEPARTMENT .  '

: out, and not waking up after vomiting. s1~0RES__1-U1-n0N_EN1‘ER1‘A]NM ENf_ ' '

s or she is sufloring from acute alcohol HqrEL5‘M0TELs‘C“S"CA-R RENFALS‘ ' '

: intoxication. m:mms—mo 10 aurw voun car-:Drr nmncr ' CITY —————-———— STATE — ZIP ————

: 1.Get help. Call someoneastaff I . ' '. I

: member, an ambulance, public safety, N0 turn (IOWIISI . STUDENT? l§.§__!2_ SS.‘ .

- someone who can help. ° 1

3 2. Do not leave the the person alone, § we No credit. checks’ . ' '  '

: trim him or ber onrtlieir side to keep M55‘ ‘“Ee,D“‘:C“ N0 secunty deposrt. ' “nu Naulﬂhld ” . ngmtnd uuknulk d Makﬂxm mhmﬁhml Inc ' [K
 3.Aiiii/aysibe""be:*i;iJ;;f:3a:hea?ifsiJ(:$1F]i:gi °“o’:§‘°‘m SEND THE COUPON TODAY ' ‘ ‘ ‘ V ‘ I

E Jgﬁrafrregrrroitkfgfngvrgaggurﬁoljozgrﬁg   YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING! : MAIL THIS N0 RISK COUPON 1 ()DAY : ‘H
r forhimorhgr? " - ' ------an--Q--Q-Q---an--—u

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, I994

  

A passer-by examines the poster for the Foreign St

-:

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi
udent at the State The-

atre. Reaction to the movie has not been extremely positive.

Foreign Student fails impress

to MOVIE, from page 1

scenes with the love-struck pair.
In the words of one audience
member, “I think a fifth-
grader could have written
better material.”

ShannenJamieson,W&L’97,
said, “it was cheesy and had a lot
of bad acting. The only cool part
was when I saw the few people
I knew.”

Linda Perkins confessed the
only reason she liked it was be-
cause her son, John was in the
movie. “He played a football
player, you know, the one who
smashed his head against the
wall.” Her husband nodded
in agreement.

An older couple who exited

thetheaterlaughing uproariously
pronounced the film, “Wretched.
Corny. Stupid. It didn’t resemble
the book at all.”

One man had a specific point
of criticism that, “Robin Givens
didn’t seem to enjoy the sex.” He
was referring to the one love scene
in the film.

Steve Frame, W&L ’97,
added, “You’ll appreciate it only
if you’re a student of this fine
institution, but maybe even then
you still won’t be able to under-
stand it.”

Despite the negative re-
sponses, there were some view-
ers who liked “Foreign Student.”
One older gentleman said, “I ac-
tually thought it was well done.”

Kathy Moritz and Chris

Rudasill said, “We enjoyed it. It
was a good story.” The couple
also referred to the mountainous
scenery of the Shenandoah Val-
ley as one of the movie’s
strong points.

The State Theater Assistant
Manager, Chad Coleman, also
liked the movie. He particularly
commented on what he believed
to be the realistic portrayal of a
Parisian in the American South
in the 1950’s. He regretted to say
that the movie was not doing
very well and would be out of the
theater before Thursday, Octo-
ber 6. He blamed the film’s poor
showing on Washington and
Lee’s Homecoming Weekend.
Others, most definitely, would
contend that explanation.

 

NEWS / W&LlF E

PAGE 5

Liberty Hall Ruins get

reconstruction

By SioNi PAGE
Phi Staff Writer

As some Washington and Lee
students may have noticed at
Saturday’s tailgate party, the
university’s landmark Liberty
Hall Ruins have been undergo-
ing an extensive remodeling job.
Though the idea of reconstruct-
ing a ruin may seem bizarre at
first thought, when considering
the vast role that the hall has
played in the history of the school,
it makes a great deal of sense.

Liberty Hall was the original
building of what has now be-
come Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. Before either George
Washington or Robert E. Lee
played out their all-important
roles in the story of W&L, Lib-
erty Hall was founded as a small
school enrolling approximately
twenty-ﬁve students.

The hall was originally built
when the school was founded in
May of 1776. At that time, it was
a small building, 24 by 28 feet
with one and a half stories.

In 1784, the hall was burned
down for the first time and was
not rebuilt until 1793 when its

size was increased to three sto-
ries with dimensions of 30 by 38
feet. The building had twelve
rooms of approximately 15 feet
square each.

The new building served as
the school until 1802 when it was
again burnt to the ground, this
time never to be rebuilt. The de-

cision was made tobuildthe new " ...  v - I _

school hall on a different loca-

tion, leaving the Liberty Hall ru-

ins standing as they are today.
The fact that the ruins have

stood forso longisatestament to  .7  I ‘

how wellthe stonework was built.
However, after 192 years, the
ruins are finally getting an over-
haul.

The reconstruction process is
called “stabilization” and is be-
ing done by Traditional Stone
Masonry, a business located in
Middleberg. In an interview with
the Phi, one of the workmen ex-
plained the stabilization process.

The method the workers use
is called “pointing” and involves
replacing the ancient, worn out
mortar ﬁlling by refilling the
cracks between the stones with
new mortar. This work should
add many more years to the life
of the ruins of Liberty Hall.

 

' 38,...» .»[».x.»;:»

  

Work

,.
“N. . .
nu... ~ »- ~   , ....
.\ _‘. _  q (I 4.5,.‘ .. -s.;. .y‘_. 4.. _ “(v.4
 <‘ J1? _ "‘.~ ~.~..’-“i~.. _
:2 J .- , . I » V-.. .
., - - . v p _ .-.. V I
E i A \ -. .
 ‘<\,,  V
V O N na-
‘"53"’ ’“‘ A’ “xv 
. -,z- , , .- K . .
. ,. s 2 ., \ ,
.» - . ~ ’*"1W"
_ ' 3*" J/;....,‘*, .,.....5':V ..,.
 I _ , . , .\ ‘Q
'. i.

 

 

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tuim Phi

Scaffolding has already gone up around the ruins. ~

FLC abuzz with ideas, plans for a great year

Ariel plans for improved year, more issues

By KO-MING CHANG
Phi Staff Writer

All the writers, artists and photographers at
Washington and Lee who are seeking an outlet for
their creative talents should find out more about the
Ariel, the school’s literary magazine.

Many students seem to have heard about the
Ariel, but surprisingly few people submit work to
the annual publication.

A liberal arts institution as fine as Washington
and Lee (it is, after all, number 15 in the nation)
should be able to generate more interest in creative
and visual art. Luckily, the people at the Ariel are
willing to help students who are reluctant to see
their work published.

In order to promote the number of submissions
it is getting, the Ariel is working to publish more
than one issue this year. Susan Deutsch, editor of
the Ariel, said this should boost involvement.

“A lot of people want to get stuff into theAriel,
but they don’t think about doing it until after the
magazine has come out. Hopefully, if we publish

twice a year, we’ll get more material to print,”-

she said.

Due to a limited budget, each issue will prob-
ably contain fewer pages. Deutsch wants to even-
tually see the Ariel published three times a year,
something which will happen only if interest in the
magazine picks up.

The Ariel is also attempting to co-sponsor po-
etry readings with the Washington and Lee Society
for the Arts. Students who are interested in poetry
will be able to have poets in the area read their
work, much the same way they can hear musicians
come to play at the Lenfest Center. This, in turn,
may inspire student poets to write for the Ariel.

In the past, the magazine received entries mostly
from English majors who had more contact with
the Ariel. Other students who may not have the
same opportunities to express themselves are en-
couraged to write entries.

So, if you can draw, paint, take pictures or write
(something students at Washington and Lee are
doubtless experts are doing), consider getting your
work into the next issue of theAriel. The first issue
this year should be coming out sometime
in January.

By JENNIFER LATHAM
Phi Staff Writer

Underwater Monopoly, anyone?

Washington and Lee upperclassmen
might be unfamiliar with the game, played
with weighted boardpieces in a swimming
pool. But an applicant for this year’s Fresh-
man Leadership Council suggested it as an
activity to promote class unity.

The FLC is already abuzz with such ideas
after its first meeting two weeks ago.

The first FLC formed two years ago to
unite the freshman class through recreational
activities and service projects. This year,
Dean of Freshmen Dennis Manning and
Dean of Student Activities Michelle
Richardson chose eight permanent council
members and two alternates from among
40 applicants.

“The ones that we chose were a lot more
motivated and excited than the others,” said
Richardson. She and Manning wanted a
group that would “land running”
once elected.

At their meeting with the deans, FLC

members suggested class picnics, trips, com-
munity service projects, and even a “Fresh-
man Weekend” in October.

But they focused mainly on their first
task: making Old George sit pretty as a yel-
low jacket exterminator on their class ﬂoat
for homecoming. ‘

The F LC’s next project, Freshman Week-
end, will take place during Reading Days,
October20-23. Council member Matt Graves
said the weekend should be full of activities.

“We’re looking at some inter-hall compe-
titions like tug-of-war, another movie night
like we had for orientation...pizza parties and
stuff like that,” said Graves.

Council member Kendall Cruickshanks
said the council also discussed organizing a
freshman cheering section at the last home
football game that weekend.

“Mike Walsh, the athletic director,
wants (us) to promote school spirit,”
Cruickshanks said.

Richardson said she likes these ideas and
will encourage the council to act on others,
as well.

Even those that have gathered a little~dust
over the years.

“One of (the council members) wanted to 
do a recycling project,” Richardson said. “It ;

was kind of like re-inventing the wheel.”

Richardson said the F LC should sponsor
the project despite problems other groups
have had in initiating a recycling program in
the past. I

“Any events that are planned, I think that
they’re destined to be a success, because it’s‘
like new ground,” said Richardson.

Both the deans and council members said
camaraderie has already turned their ideas
into reality.

“Everything’s seemed to click,” said
Cruickshanks. “We work well together.”

Cruickshanks said Richardson has also
had a positive influence on the FLC.

Richardson became dean of student activities; I
this year after spending two years working’ 7.

with student councils in New York.

Her first project this year was organizingi ‘
the acoustic coffee house nights in the Gen-' T

eral Headquarters.
“She ’s real
Cruickshanks.

enthusiastic,”

“She’s had a lot of great ideas and has I

reinforced our ideas.”

said

Eddy L. Harris takes a hopeful,
painful journey through Africa

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

The starving and bloodshed in Rwanda and Somalia
looms in our numb memory while Nelson Mandela’s elec-
tion as the first black president of South Africa symbolizes
hope and progress.

Marcus Garvey sparked a Back to Africa movement in
the 1920’s with his Universal Negro Improvement Associa-
tion. Today, Afrocentric thought and the celebration of
Kwanzaa paints Africa as a source of racial pride. But what
is Africa.

Eddy L. Harris, author of Native Stranger, takes us
through a sometimes hopeful and oftentimes painful jour-
ney through Africa.

Harris makes it clear from the beginning that he is not
Alex Haley trying to discover his roots: “Because my skin
is black you will say I traveled Africa to find the roots of my
race.

I did not—unless that race is the human race, for except
in the color of my skin, I am not African.” I happen to agree.
I do not speak Swahili, Wolof, Mandinka, or any other
African language. I speak English, some Spanish, and a little
(very little) Latin. I am an American. Fine. Point made.
Harris, however, feels the need to repeatedly show how
unAfrican he is. It becomes a little strained and extremely
tiring.

The strength lies in its lyrical descriptions of the African
continent. He starts in Paris and moves through Tunisia,

Ivory Coast, Zimbabwe, Zaire, South Africa, and other
countries.

He sees the poverty and the ravages of colonialism. He
bristles at the excesses and corruption of African elites.
When he goes to the Ivory Coast, he shakes his head at the
waste of a beautiful church.

“Felix Houphouet-Boigny builds a massive Catholic
basilica in the jungle of a nation of people the vast majority
of who are animists...Houphouet—Boigny says it is a monu-
ment to his people. But it is a monument to himself.”

African elites like any politician surrounds himself with

lavish things. It gives him power. It also gives them the -

temptation to abuse that power.

He visits the Gambia where Haley searched for his
ancestors. He stands at the slave stations where Africans
were held before they made the ominous Middle Passage.
How did they feel? What were their lives like before? These
questions fill Harris’ mind as he looks around. He spends
time in a Liberia jail cell. Liberia was founded in the late
19th century by American slaves.

Unfortunately, these slaves oppressed the indigenous
peoples there.

He faces the bitterness of Africans toward American
imperialism and neglect; it matters not that he is black——he
is still a fascist American in their eyes. In Mali, he receives
an indication of his wonderful country-’s policy toward
Africa.

“You send us aid not to help us develop, but to appease
your conscience, and the aid gets corrupted...It is good will,
but not much more. And always we are forced to look upon
to white men who seem to know more about everything than

atiive Stranger

.3. .£§s».:.u.'.lz .=‘lrrzt*rr'~;.:;z‘1z.s; jmsrnegg

that Heart‘  Africa i_

we do. It is another form of imperialism.”
Harris knows he is also a part of this imperialism.

Harris has an eloquent voice. He is brutally honest, which
gives the book its true power. His carefully drawn observa-
tions and frank opinions keeps the reader engrossed. His
weakness comes when he continually reminds the reader
that he is not African. When he is in South Africa, he admits
that he sometimes has more in common with the Boer than
the African.

Dr/'v/n ' N’ Cryin ’shaR<:s Pavilion

By KELLEY TA’I'l‘EN
Phi Staff Writer

Performing at the Pavillon Friday night, Drivin’ N’
Cryin’ brought their act to W&L’s homecoming festivities.

The Atlanta-based band played both new and old songs
for an enthusiatic audience. “The songs from their older
albums were definately the crowd pleasers,” observed Kate
Giese.

DNC introduced their musical style to the W&L crowd. In
contrast to their earlier works, DNC has mellowed a bit.
They seem to have wandered away from the edgy, college
grunge genre and created a more distinct, characterizing
sound. This change brought a new personality to DNC’s old,
familiar tunes. '

“Their performances of Fly Me Courageous and Gain?
Straight to Hell were my favorites because I knew all the
words and I could sing along,” recalls Margaret Rich.

Due to DNC’s popularity, particularly in the south, many
W&L students looked forward with great anticipation to the
concert. After missing out on a recent show in Atlanta,
Shelli Henderson welcomed DNC to the stage: “A couple of
weeks before I left for school, I was supposed to see them at
a Flood Relief concert. I ended up trapped inside my house
because of a ﬂash ﬂood, so this was a great opportunity to
make it up.”

The band impressed some concertgoers unfamiliar with
their music. Bligh Wollner commented, “I liked them better
live than when I heard their cd.” Some happy audience
members even crowd surfed- a sure sign of their approval.
Tiffany Gagliardi summed the night’s entertainment up by
simply stating, ‘‘It was rockin’!”

 

Glenmore llunt

 
 

asactﬁ @e§

Sunday, October 9, 1994

Gates open 11:00 a.m. - First race: 11:30 a.m. Rain or Shine
$5.00 Admission
TAILGATE COMPETITION

All spectators in the parking area are invited to participate in the tailgate competition from 1:00 p.m. until 2:00 p.m
A brace of fine Virginia wines will be awarded to the top two “tailgaters.” Other prizes may also be awarded.

White Rock Manor Farm

Exit 50, 64 West from Lexington, Virginia follow signs
CONDITIONS AND PRIZE LIST FOR RACES

SAB presents
Cumullc & mahcr

Ilhursday, October 13
9 o'clock in fire evening
éeneral ﬂeadquarlers

Admission $2
Beer served with proper I.D.

 

Despite the acoustical disadvantages of their venue,"

  

PAGE 6

Clip: iliing-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

 

. Costs of W&L Revealed

Washington and Lee has managed to keep its tuition
costs down over the years, but at what price? My
depression of the last few days for having my wallet
stolen on campus has recently shifted to anger as the
costs of replacing its contents has become apparent. I
only had twenty dollars in the $12 wallet/key chain, so
besides losing that $32, I initially thought my only
other losses would be the time it took me to replace my
driver’s license, credit cards, etc. Little did I know.

A trip to Taco Hall soon conﬁrmed that I would be
charged $ 10 for the replacement of my university card.
I had never lost a card before, and I suppose I had
expected the university to be understanding about the
theft. No such luck: that little piece of white plastic
with a xeroxed image (which was already in the
computer!) does indeed cost $10.

Not only did I pay $10 for the card, but I was
informed that the $20 I had just (the day before) added
to my vending account could not be recovered. Amazed,
I realized that I can get a new credit line with a $5000
credit line for free by making a simple two minute
‘phone call, but I have to pay $30 to get a university
card! My costs of having my wallet stolen had now
escalated to $62, in addition to the mental aggravation
of trying to replace everything.
Now, my post office key cost exactly $1 to replace,
inclusive of any taxes or fees. Why is it then that my
university keys cost $25 each to replace? Security
reasons, they say. They don’t want people to dissemi-
nate keys to their friends. Well, lets talk about secu-
rity. Lets talk about theft in campus buildings and
why the security office has never posted any informa-
tion about crime on campus. I would like to see student
body notices from Mike Young hanging from every
bulletin board detailing each month’s thefts-—perhaps
:then those of us lulled into a false sense of security by
.our honor code will wake up and realize that Lexing-
ton is not immune to the problems of larger cities. How
many bicycles were stolen last year? How many CD’s
have been stolen from people’s rooms? How much
vandalism has there been to people’s dorm rooms? I
«know that there has been some. but the more I ask
people the more I find that almost everybody on
campus has had something of value stolen in the last
year.

So now my wallet will cost $112, and all for the $20
cash that was enclosed. But now I’ve started thinking
about other costs of the university that just are not
included in tuition. $15 chemistry lab fee. $10 class
dues. $15 Calyx photo fee. $25 parking fee. $25 park-
ing ticket. $3/week laundry. Phone bills. Refrigerator
rental. Room damage fees. Gym class fees ($36 ice
skating, almost $70 canoeing). The Co-op makes some
outrageous profit, like 30% on all food items. And
anybody who has ever bought a paperback in the
bookstore for $40 knows that the pricing there is
obscene.

It really adds up after a while. No, college isn’t
cheap, and a lot of the money doesn’t seem to be going
towards my education.

--Melissa Sawyer
Quote of the Week:

“...and ever since then, they’ve called me Bacon.
And I like it, because I’m sizzlin’.”
-An obviously tipsy W&L male talking to his
female companions on Saturday night.

@112 'iRitng-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Fliekinger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Maleolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
‘Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-turn Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
1. I I  »"“ -'_-2‘,-S;
Fax (703) 462-4059

 

OPINION

.IT is _N_E,g;r
Q WEEKEND;

The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1994

      
  

Drug penalties cause crowding

Recently, college, campuses, includ-
ing Washington and Lee, have wit-
nessed a resurgence of casual drug use.
The trend appears to be promoted by,
although not limited to, a false aware-
ness that recreational drugs, marijuana
in particular, have
somehow ac-

imprisonment without possibility of
parole.

Other legendary sentences have oc-
curred, particularly in Oklahoma.In
1992 Jim Montgomery, :1 paraplegic
who smoked marijuana to relieve

muscle spasms
was arrested in

quired a decrimi-
nalized status.
However, ‘reefer
madness’ laws are
stronger than ever.
Consider the case
of Mark Young.
In May of 1991
Young, the target
of a Drug Enforce-

 

Sayre, Okla-
homa,whensher-
iffs discovered
two ounces of
marijuana in his
w h e e l c h a i r
pouch. Mont-
gomery was then
tried and con-
victed, by jury,

'95

ment Administra-
tion sting opera-
tion, was arrested at his Indianapolis
home for negotiating the sale of 700
pounds of marijuana. However,
Young’s sole involvement as the al-
leged middleman in the transaction was
to introduce the owners of the cannabis
saliva farm to prospective marijuana
buyers from New York. In fact there
was never a formal introduction but
rather, Young suggested to a friend,
with whom he was sharing a joint with
on a Florida ﬁshing trip, where he
could obtain dope of similar quality.
Despite the seemingly innocuous sug-
gestion, Young was charged with “con-
spiracy to manufacture” marijuana and
was, consequently, liable for all 12,500
marijuana plants grown on Claude
Atkinson’s and Ernest Montgomery's
Morgan County farm. Young was, sub-
sequently, convicted solely on the tes-
timony of Atkinson and Montgomery,
despite the fact that no confiscated
marijuana, money, or any other physi-
cal evidence connected Young to the
illegal transaction. On February 8, 1992,
Indiana Federal judge Sarah Evans
Barker sentenced Mark Young to life

for possession of
marijuana with

the intent to distribute as well as pos-
session of unlawful paraphernalia. His
sentence? life in prison plus sixteen
years.

Perhaps even more incredible, the
1994 arrest and conviction of the former
petty thief, l..arry Jackson. While being
arrested in a friend’s Tulsa apartment
for a non-violent offense, police offic-
ers noted traces of marijuana residue
nearJackson’sfeet.Theresidue inques-
tion, was later measured as 0.16 of a
gram, which is 0.005644 of an ounce.
Jackson, like Montgomery, was given

_ a life sentence without parole.

In 1986, the passage of the Anti-
Drug Abuse Act, radically altered the
power of the federal judge to determine
sentences for convicted drug offend-
ers. Formerly, federal judges, after re-
viewing the particulars of a case could,
under review of extenuating circum-
stances, reduce or probate the sentence
of a convicted drug offender. How-
ever, zero tolerance sentencing guide-
lines enacted in 1987 by the Sentenc-
ing Reform Act of 1984, have given
prosecuting U.S. attorneys and not the

judges, the sole authority to determine
whether or not mandatory minimums
apply to a particular case. Furthermore,
U.S. attorneys are encouraged by the
Thomburgh Memorandum, which is
included in all hand books issued to
U.S. attorneys, to pursue the maximum
penalty in all drug related offenses,
“regardless of any mitigating circum-
stances.” Consequently, federal pros-
ecutors unnecessarily ﬁll court dock-
ets and more importantly, ﬁll federal
prisons with non-violent drug offend-

population.

The nation’s prison populations
have doubled since 1970 and drug of-
fenders alone are now numerically
greater than the total prison population
in 1970. As a result, the United States
has the dubious distinction of main-
taining the highest rate of its own citi-
zens in the world.

Perhaps decriminalization of drugs
will end our modern Prohibition and
return hard core criminals, not non-
violent substance abusers, to prison.

 

ers. H o w -

Accord- ever, de-
ing to the M .  .. .. . criminal-
Bureau of  x. . - ization
Prisons and _ is, pres-
the United ently, a
,Sff‘n°f._ isffg  decriminalization is, §’,§’,:§,‘,‘s‘°s‘i‘f
C_omm i s- presently, apolitical impos- zility arid
:,',:’,§,',’m,§,‘1’,} sibility and the only alter- ,,f,:’,',',y.
15.000, or native to alleviating our tiv<=t°a1-
one in every . ‘ . . leviating
5;,‘ f.,d..,,,-.1 bloated prison systems is to 0 ,, ,
9050"“, 15 abolish federal mandatory . "‘°.“‘°d
incarcerated , , « , p r 1 s o n
for a mari- minimums for non-violent systems
juanarelated . is to
offense.Asa  offenders’ abolish
result, vio- federal
lent offend- manda-
ers, who are t o r y
sentenced mini-
underdiffer- m u m s
ent laws, are granted early parole in for non-

order to accommodate the inﬂux of
non-violent drug offenders sentenced
under mandatory minimums.
Mandatory minimums have resulted
in the explosion of the federal prison
population. In 1970, 16.3 percent of all
federal prisoners were drug offenders.
Presently, the United States incarcer-
ates 200,00 federal drug offenders com-
prising sixty tow percent of the penal

violent drug offenders. Abolishing fed-
erally mandatory minimums will in-
sure that judges, not U.S. attorneys,
will dictate our judicial and penal sys-
tems. As a result, the Willie Hortons’
will not no longer be paroled to roam
our streets while paraplegic pot smok-
ers like Jim Montgomery rot in prison
because of ludicrous sentences imposed
by mandatory minimums.

Parody is the opinion of Andrew Schneider

litigation.

security problems.

tion.

 

 

10. If given the house, theACLU promises to tie up the 23 tear night arrests in endless

9. Pleasing a couple of student civil libertarians would go a long way towards boosting
the Happy Student ratio in the ‘Princeton Review. .

8. Since the ACLU is currently homeless, this would be an ideal opportumty fo turn the
million dollar fraternity renaissance project into a Habitat for Humamty.

7. It would appease the conservatives and the Executive Committee by putting those
ACLU types within firing range of disgruntled postal workers. ' . » .

6. ACLU-card-carrying member Security Chief Mike Young hkes the idea, because It
would give the Phi and The Trident something else to cover besides alcohol abuse and

4. 'I‘o mark the end of Fraternity Renaissance adn the beginning of Fraternity Reforma-
3. Sororities have alrealdy been ,"put in their place" -...in Gaines. A -

2. It would be the center for new Uniersi

services 1-a.a.s 

- y

   
 

 
  

-  rti.

>5’.

     

ii- . -

mall

      

 

 

’ The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1994

Richard Weaver

On one of my recent missions to
Lee-Hi truck stop outside Lexington, I
discovered an item that has been bumin ’
the retail shelves. I’m talking about 18
Wheelers Premium Trading Cards.

“They’ve sold right well,” said the

riding up and down the highways, the
18 wheeler trucks have greatly fasci-
nated me,” he answered.

“Some of them are absolutely beau-
tiful. I always had a strong liking for
that type of thing,” he added. Matthews
did not elaborate as to how strong his
liking was for beautiful trucks.

Matthews said
the truck owners 
whose vehicles are

  

view mirror.

Matthews made it clear that 18
Wheeler Premium Trading Cards
doesn’t discriminate against trucks’
looks.

“We’re not just showing the beauti-
ful trucks; we’re showing the
hardworking trucks, too,” he said.

A good example
of a hardworking
truck would be, of

Big trucks are beautiful on cards
ht DREAM LAND

full, glossy color the things in Lexing-
ton that amuse me. And the pack will
come with two pieces of gum inside.

One of the Dream Land Premium
Trading Cards will feature a picture of
Stop-In convenience store, with its
friendly staff gathered outside, wav-
ing. On the back will be a listing of the
ingredients of the world-famous Stop-
In chili. This will also be ascratch-and-
sniff card.

Bicycle

Police at 463-2112 to identify.

If you lost a Schwinn bicycle
recently or if you suspect it was
stolen, please call the Lexington

GENERAL
NOTES

Resumes

There will be a resume work-
shop on Tuesday, October 11 at
3:00 p.m. in room 108 off the
Univeristy center. All students are

 

bee-Hi cashier about the cards. featured inthecards course, a 1988 Another Dream Land Premium Invited’ '3'
'\ Right then and there I said to my “are happy to see Kenworth T600 Trading Card will feature a picture of Internships Rhodes :31‘
journalism self: “This isastory!”Then them in the set.” owned by Jim and Letitia Pate Evans Dining Hall. Chil- _.,,.
I said to the normal part of myself: Takeforinstance Susie Shupp of dren will be frolicking outside, and Therewillbeanintemshipwork- Sen- - t t d - Rh d 5"‘
“This will be a great birthday gift for Tom and Joyce Humboldt, Ne- rainbows will shine out of the win- shop on Wednesday, October 12, at schol l0hr.S m ﬁreside mt t % 65 zit‘:
. mother!” , . . Craze of Fort braska.Accordingto dows. But the back of the card won’tbe 4:00 p_tn_inioom108 ofthe Univer- fesmfrgvﬁi fmﬁledigg? ac to‘ 39,
pt 18 Wheelers Premium Trading Wayne, Indiana. their18WheelerPre- so joyous and light-hearted; there will sity Center_ All students are in- y‘ t_.f
' ‘ Cards come packaged like baseball They operatea 1989 mium Trading Card, be reﬂective lightning bolts over a list vited.  ‘vi
cards. On each card is a picture of a Peterbilt with a 450 they use their of the dining hall people responsible
really cool truck on the front and its Caterpillar and 9- Kenworth to haul for such things as Wok Night and the If ~ 1 d . . . .‘.,.
vital statistics on the back, like how speed overdrive hogs and cattle Sunday Night Old Reheated Pasta Bar. Interviews forthggllziarir wocrfiitz oﬁhtgﬂgig ‘"0’
A many speeds it has and if its trailer is EatonTransmission across the Midwest. Their home phone numbers and ad- . . ' nesssidmpleasestopby ourweekly ~-
I water-tight. The faces of the trucks that is featured on a The card doesn tlist dresses will also be included. There willbe aninterview work- Sto be d t- T d 253-
owners are left up to the imagination. 18 Wheelers Pre- ’ their CB handle, but Dream Land Premium Trading shop on Thursday, October 13, at 7 fl,“ -ar- Thee Iljng. on escgytat V.,i'
Using the top-secret Phi long dis- miumTradingCard. ‘ I would suggest Cards are not limited to food; I have 4:00 p.m. in room 108 of the Uni- Rgmplgsmwe mlveril yk. "fer ‘"4"
tance phone call authorization codes The Crazes (asl “WuzzDinner.” plannedaBetsy Green card, too. ltwill versity Center. All students are n Ad C ' e-:-rea 50-00 mg or ‘N.’
(which are kept in the locked briefcase assume they’re col- Virginia Hobby have a picture of an AMC Pacer on the invited to attend, a Omposl 10" amst‘ . ,,
l A handcuffedtothearmofPhi Executive lectively known) ' Supply has also pr0- front (the kind of car you’d expect ’ 
Editor Sarah Gilbert’s personal body- use the CB handle ‘ " duced 4 series of ﬁre Betsy to drive) and on the back will be S eni Ors
guard), I called Virginia Hobby Sup- of “WuzzFuzz.” ‘ " engines trading a list of all the great things about living Democrats 7,‘;
ply, the company which distributes the They are apparently also happy to make cards, as well as bird and ﬂower cards. in Gaines Hall. The rest of the space Th I . . ‘ .t
cards, for more information. public on a trading card the fact that All of these consumer choices doesn’t will be blank, so you can write a gro- college Democrats will have a t tekast dilmo gaV°bSeT8rSp,‘°' ‘(fa
\ I spoke with Richard Matthews, the1rtruck“featuresaerodynamicwheel mean there isn’t room on the market cery list. meeting snndaytoctober 9, at7;00 "RES aserlwl . e ck.) elf] ' lg" ';~:§.1
head of the company, and asked what covers.” I think it can be safely as- for another unique series. Drop by Lee-Hi to get your trading p_m_ m the Game Room to discuss  or hemor Plctules mt e c°'9p' 5.. ..
provoked him to make 18 Wheelers sumed that they also have Yosemite Thus, lam now planninganew line cards before they all sell out. Who the senate Campaign‘ t 3'0“ 3‘: “Oi Paid f0’ YOUT P1?‘ 
Premium Trading Cards. L Sam mud ﬂaps that say “Back Off” and of Dream Land Premium Trading knows—— you might fall in love with a "re yet’ m_p,°ff 3 $20 check "1 iii,‘
“Well, mainly because all my life, a pair of fuzzy pink dice on the rear Cards. The series will immortalize in beautiful truck, too. Carol Caulkm S ofﬁce‘ ,-,9.
It Eating Problems JOBS 3 1 ,5,
- "re.
Bets ets ersonal and des erate   --
women students with eating prob- donat miss the SLAC Job Fair

lems will meet Wednesday after-
noons beginning October 19. Call
the Counseling Service at ext. 8750
or the Health Center at ext. 8401 to
receive additional information.

intervews in Atlanta, Chicago, D.C., ._-t 3.
Los Angeles, New York, Philadel-
phia, and San Fransisco. Over 135
companies participating. Deadline 331;’
is October 21. Come to the CDPO

probably don’t realize how much they might be re-
vealing about themselves. Some have a long list of
things that they don’t want in a potential mate. They

really rather cuddle and look at the stars than
watch football and drink beer?
I do think it’s possible to ﬁnd love in the

GREEN LAND

  
  

ones written about in the personals. In the style of the ads,
Michael Stipe sings, “Friday, bank card, yours got stuck.
Loaned you a phone quarter, said good luck. Where are
you now?” I guess we can learn a lesson from these ads.
Find that mystery girl in the FD shirt and talk to herwhile

‘you still have the chance.

anything else.

It seems like a disproportionate amount of men are
interested in antique shopping, walks in the country,
and sitting in front of the fireplace. Are they fooling
anyone? Does any man legitimately feel that he is

Regretting what could have been. Maybe I am

someone’s “knight in shining annor?” Would any guy

The ads themselves can be amusing also. People

TALKBACK

 

significantly younger than you are, but we could
work with that. I’ll be your Amy Fisher. You be
my Buttafuocco. Are you still looking for love?

Johnson has taught in private Catholic High Schools in Philidelphia and
Baltimore, and at Christian Brothers University in Memphis.

 

The Ring-tum Phi is a great place to gain valuable
quality experience in la

yout or writing. (And it’s fun!)
Call 462-4060 f

or more information.

l'€SllIIl€-

say things like, “No games, please,” “No users,” and personals. Hey, it’s as good a place as any. . _ 3 0:
Betsy Green “Richard Weaver need not apply.” An ad with this I myself am deeply in love with a man whose t for more information. “V
1 many qualiﬁers is not the best one to answer. What ad I read in the Chicago Tribune about two years , _ '_’» -
F. these people are really saying when they say, “No ago.Istill think about him. His ad was something Yearbook  Strides i_jn,«
It’s time to make a confession I love to read the gzrielswailllasfobfbll ‘bbgﬁggiiciblizblgbhrfnldncbﬁitst hkesbliilsdnic sarsastic ﬁre-breathing West Sub- Yearbook Pictures for Under’ The Amefican Cancer S°°i°‘)’a 11:;
personal ads In my opinion they rank right up there with guently wg won’ty have a , ’ 11rbanhe- N0iI1t6f8StS, :::?m$]2:1dePﬁn:e?t:a"g Frﬁsb the Ca‘h°“° C3mP“5 Minisiryv and ‘Ml
' . . ’ . . w w ~ - 
’TheRicki Lake Show, chili dogs from Stop-In, and Kraft good time if we go out.” In no sense of humor..In October 16’ at ‘the Bnévggitgrgggj iih'SCI)£‘d“;i3 rare SP°[{1l50“h§ i_1I1% M319 ca;
Macamni and Cheese (or, as my roommate Jessica short, I’m a mayor loser. search of woman with M mom 108 from 3 ‘m. to 6 _ 3 °V°' ‘mg’ '. °".°“ ,5.
Antonich insists I call it, Kraft Cheese and Macaroni) as Personal ads are chock- -j-—: ‘ C -j""— somethingin oommon d f 7 18 P m‘ Suhflay. October 30. Registration x H
a great guilty pleasure. Some people might argue that full of euphemisms just like with me. 47 years old, an mm pm’ to P'm' begllls at 12:30 "1 the Hams Teeter .':i'»'.*3
putting an ad in the newspaper to find romance seems this one. If a man asks for a  .t it look_ tall, blond doctor. Parking 140$ (mt:
pretty desperate. My answer to that would be aresound- woman who is “petite” it . en 1 comes; 0 _ lnever wrote back L t L t Parentts Weekend  ’
ng, “Yeah, so?” When it comes to looking for love, let’s means he wants a liatfe Mpss yng for love, let 3 face lt, to hir(pl._kGran(t;<cll _t(pis as CC 11I'eS An:
ace it, we’re all desperate. So why not read the person- type who will as or er 9 seem i ea g 1 ea _ _ If ouror an-lat-my - ,3,-,2.
als? There’s no telling what hidden gem you might find. low fat salad dressing on the we re all desperate’ So  at the time since as a _ The Last Lecture SCTICS Wl_h 136- a pargntas wgekimdleveﬁ s(,p;;,S(t)(:1:,‘1g1 _,._
One of my favorite sections of the personals is called side. On the other hand, a not read the personals. senior in high school, gin Oh Thlifsda)’. 0010136! 27,1nth¢ parents and student’ please Contact 5 
“You Caught My Eye.” People send in ads in hopes of woman who describes There’s no tel w hat he mightnothavebeen GHQ at 6.30. Dean Howison by Sept 26' 
getting to talk to the cute guy they sat across from on the herselfe as “volumptuous” h . d d . h t too interested in me. ’
Metro the week before or because they regret not asking is really just saying that she 1 en g em 3'00 mlg But now I m not so ( -t
the blonde with the beautiful green eyes for her phone looks a lot like Roseanne find, I A V.  \ Vt] _ K , §Uf_§-..1f W°°d)’ _A“¢h "wt
number. In a way it’s kind of sad. Chances are not;very and that her dates wouldﬂdrou  ’_  ‘t ‘:1 r: ' ‘;‘.‘_ ‘: tj .'.§.~  ;Soon-,Y:i_ tor ._,  A ~. r>,g.,-..\;.‘
good that the right person will happento read the ad or. ..well totake her to All ‘You, ‘ ‘ ' ' gicliael atned hLisa . t , « t <.' .  » z _  -. . - ;  ; . .. . .
remember to answer it. If the Phi ran personal ads like Can Eat Night at the Lard l  arie can appy . ’
" ’ this, chances would be practically nil. Imagine it: Meet Hut.“Anypne_who calls_her- together, [maybe me C0rrect]0n 51:
in".‘L?J.?.lIZl;l.t°'i..§?i§‘§.§;’§lu‘§$§‘i;';‘i§‘ s’t°..“.."-s’»5§E'i‘.‘.T§’ Zi'f.i."t’.1k“'tii',‘Z.°..‘§’.?d"$3l3i §?i'.‘.g“i3‘do§5'§§id bi 
trident belt, shiit with Greek letters. Regret not hooking just quietly look at her nails while you desperately try _ _ to put a “_You_Caug_ht A mistake was made in the 9/23/94 issue of the Ring—tum Phi. Professor 3353
up with you. Call me. Maybe I like those ads so much to entertain her. If a man calls himself “professional” My Eye” ad in the Tribune. Something like this: Allen Johnson of the English Department received his undergraduate degree ,_J-h,‘§3t.’
because they remind me of an R.E.M. song. It’s called he wil talk about his job ad nauseum. You.‘ The man With no sense ofhumor whoput from LaSalle university. He also holds two Masters degrees: an M.L.A. from ,1,;,_,
(“Chance” and is all about chance encounters just likethe Personal ads tend to focus on romance more than an ad in this paper about two years ago. Me.‘ Johns Hopkins and an M.A.in English from the University of Pennsylvania. »‘ "6"

 

‘ 3:15:
Interviews and Photos by Betsy Green LaY°“t BY Anne A1V°1'd j::
A , ‘ .
What do ou think of Washin on and Lee Student 9 
Y S .

'2:'.C.7

235.213

ifiﬂélfl

..M‘ufI§'

xi;-tﬂt

iiTl)"‘[“

..'~‘.t/,i'«

Tommy Roberts, F lrst Team Marysue Forrest, The Bookery - Wayne R1iynal,mg_lIt.Owl-“l,can’t Susan Baizelya Lexington Horse _ Lucia Owens, Sunday's Child - “l the-“,‘r’:5dhé1l*i?51l]‘t1'ﬁ5lalPﬂ:)l:,*;8£:)l:’k}:1  
Sports _ “I like them. I think they’re “wasmngtonand Lee stndents add 3 answer - you re all individuals. and Country-“I ’ve found some good, tgmk they re fab“l°"5- Ilm amaze?‘ 3‘ “EL ,, g ' g ‘ 
good for business} great deal oflife and vitality to the city reliablestudentstohelp me inthestore. i 6 merchants Wh0 doht 3PP_T¢°““° ‘ ‘ ""

1 a of Lexington. After living out of state They’i9 h0n€-St, hard WOTKCIS-” them‘ Th°y,,'° one of my mam °“S' -
for twenty-three years and having mm“ bases‘ "

moved back to Lexington, I’m glad to ""“"-"'

see that W&L has gone co-ed. The °-"-v3~

girls help the downtown economy.” ii:-‘im“E‘.’

(A ‘ilk’; Lit
’ O l .-J’ N

:‘UX‘3..‘.‘1

E t e 1 ,w»:E~\.i;»

“A '0".

‘ J".a."'J‘

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1994

Homecoming 1994 was played out
in many venues, with excitement
and a variety of beverages for
students, alumni and the towns-
people. '

Clockwise from above:

° Kappa Alpha Thetas dressed as
Randolph-Macon Yellowj ackets
dance to their death in the parade;
- Senior Carol Pierce receives the

adulation of her s'ubjects"so'o’n after i

being crowned homecoming queen;
-A juggler struts his stuff in the
parade;

- Students enjoy the beautiful sun
and catch a few plays at the foot-
ball game at Wilson field;
-Tailgaters drink to the success of
the new tailgating location’ at the
Liberty Hall Ruins;

-The Phi Delta Thetas in their
morbid “Fry the Yellowjackets”
ﬂoatride down Main Street.

R
PAGE 8

1' ’—+,«:}'v‘-=_3.n¥a«~~rY-‘w\.l-m«""’ ~ ~   -’

 The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1994

i Hamst

BI

 MEANS LOW PRICES

REDUCED PRICES
LOW SALT OR THICK SLICED

OSCAR MAYER I
BACON A

2.2.149

U.S.D.A. GRADE ”A"
PERDUE BONELESS

CHICKE
BREAS

1

T 

GRAPEERUIT JUICE

89

SELECTED
VARIETIES

48
OZ.

HUNTER FARMS
SHERBET

2/ O0

SELECTED
VARIETIES

QT.

CREAMY OR EXTRA CRUNCHY

JIF
PEANUT BUTTER

3/ 0

OZ.

SELECTED
VARIETIES

COKE OR
DIET COKE

2 LTR.

TIDE ULTRA

DETERGENT

599

98-
I 10
OZ.

SPORTS

W

Once again: They’re back for a new week

BY TORY Noro AND JASON TEETERS
Phi Staff Writers

Since the National Hockey League is still dormant,
we’ll continue to discuss the gridiron. Week #5 was
included many an upset, as the salary—capped NFL
showed its parity.

The biggest embarrassment of the weekend belonged
to the 49ers as they were levelled by the high-ﬂying
Birds of Philly. When the 49ers entered Candlestick on
Sunday afternoon, they weren’t prepared for the shocker
they would receive. -

Rookie Charlie Garner, Calvin Williams, and the
punishing Mean Green Defense ran rough-shod overthe
high price 49ers. Deion Sanders and Jerry Rice were
rendered non-factors by the spirited ones from the City
of Brotherly Love, as the Eagles rolled on to win 40-8
over the hapless 49ers.

The New Jersey Giants came into the weekend as
one-half of the two undefeated teams left in the league.
Much to the chagrin of their loyal fans, Pro-Bowl
running back Rodney Hampton’s absence was all too
evident as the Aint’s of the Bayou pulled out an ugly
victory over the Big Blue Wrecking Crew.

Dave Brown showed a lot of poise in the pocket. He
and the Giants look to get back on the winning track this
coming Monday night against the Vikings in Jimmy
Hoffa’s mausoleum, Giants Stadium.

Buddy-Ball is back! The St. Louis -oops- Arizona
Cardinals ﬂew by the Minnesota Vikings. The patented
“46 Defense” shot the Moon and company in Buddy
Ryan’s first victory of the season.

Once again, Washington proved that they are never
accused of being a good football team. Heath Shuler’s
first start as QB did not have the makings of a memo-
rable experience.

K

L

\

Switzer’s Cowboys lassoed the Skin’s attack. Unfor-
tunately for the Skins, the DC Defense did not pick up the
slack.

After reaching an emotional high by winning the
Battle of the Bays, the Pack Attack was no match for
Bledsoe’s aerial onslaught. Parcells’ Patriots and his
traditionally strong defense eeked out a victory with the
help of Green Bay’s obligatory choke.

The “Showdown of the Shulas” gave Don bragging
rights at family reunions as Dan Marino continued on his
impressive season with two TD passes over the inept and
winless Cincinnati Bungles.

The Buffalo stampede was stopped by the Grizzlies of
Chicago as Thurman Thomas’s absence proved costly.

The Jets ﬂight was aborted before takeoff as they were
chewed apart by the Dawgs of Cleveland.

In a new discussion, we’re going to mention college
football. Saturday is a big day for college contests. In a
rematch of one of last year’s most exciting games the
Fightin’ Irish of Notre Dame look to avenge their costly
loss to the Boston College Eagles, thereby settling the
argument of who’s side God is really on.

This years strongest team, the Penn State Nittany
Lions, led by exciting running back Ki-Jana Carter plan
their method of pummeling the Michigan Wolverines
during their current off week.

This week’s other main attraction involves two Flo-
ridian teams vying for bragging rights in the Sunshine
state. Florida State’s title hopes rest on their ability to
defeat their nemesis on their home turf, in Miami.

Defensive lineman Warren Sapp will lead the Hurri-
cane defense in an attempt to stonn over the perennially
strong offensive attack of the Seminoles led by Danny
Kannell.

We’ll be back next week and hopefully our article will
have in-depth discussion of the ’95 NHL season. In the
meantime start ordering your Roanoke Express season

tickets.

“lest we your writing slants,
write For Like (DICE L:I~i.s year.
gl: you are interested, can us

at 4&2-iii, or iust

cowxe    MPSEGLYS E.'V\.

Like university center.

\

‘I 'I' I R If .\I I’. .\ 'I‘ I N \' I’. S 'l‘ I N (L

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

HARRIS IEEIER...II-IE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT

79 SELECTED VARIETIES 

BAYER
sauscr
3/ 500

Even ifyou're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve -
with ﬂexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest-
ment choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over 1.5 million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not
join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on
your side.

an’t afford to save for retirement?

CThe truth is, you can’t afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $100 83611
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $138,2o9* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $203 each month
to reach the same goal.

E

‘A.«.vunrinq an iulz/‘ml ml: of 6"/u rmlilnl In I‘/«Ll Rrlirrnir/II /I/uuu'Ii(.:. T/nlv raft Li u.vrrI.m/r/_v In .v/mm Ibr pun-rr and rffrrl II/1'4’!!!/lllllllflliﬂgr lavwrr ur brybrr mm: u-nu/ti
I /YI‘ﬂl]llI'{ l't'I'V rh'/'Ii'rmI l'r'.VlI/Id. (‘I(I'.'I" t'r/'14"/i't'zrIr.r tmr rlilrlri/mm} /ry TI/IA-(‘RI'.‘I" Irrrﬁvirhitrl um) Iu.vIi'htIimm/ Stm'rr.A.

A HARRIS TEETER

SOUR
CREAM

SELECTED VARIETIES

WEIGHT wmnrns
ENTREES 

OZ.
PRESIDENT'S CHOICE SQUEEZE

TOMATO

KETCHUP 3%. 

. PricesiEffecIive Tlrrou h Oct. II, I994

' ‘ ' b 5 Th I1 0 I I I, I994 In our Lexington stor_e
III|:s:iI<aEiI (éhriigIiii3.I"LiriiIi] Licihiiiieesr. Nongoggld Id: Sealers. We Glodly Accept federal food blomps.

T6

24
oz. CT

SELECTED VARIETIES

ORE-IDA
FRIES

REAMEITE
SPAGHETTI

Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?‘

01994 Tmcﬁtrz lnauranu an} Amuu'Iy Aaaociaiinn/Ca//zgz Retirement Equiria Fun).

/

I

\

 

Last Week:

CC-(W)- 1st of seven at Franklin and Marshall
SOCCER (W)-lost to Rand. Macon 5-3; def. Swt. Br. 5-1
(M)-lost to Rand. Mac. 3-0; def. Bridgewtr. 6-1

Vou.r-:r1mLL- def. Lynchburg 3-1

WATER PoLo- 2-1 at Richmond Tourney

F0(rrnALL- lost to Randolph Macon 19-0

RUGBY- def. W&L law 38-12

PAGE 10

S

(Jim ‘ﬂing-mm lﬂhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, CROSS COUNTRY, VOLLEYBALL

 

This Week:

CC- W&L Invitational (M&W)
SOCCER (M)- at Dickinson; vs. Lynchburg

(W)- vs. Guilford and Roanoke
Vor..u:YnALL- at Goucher Tour.; vs. E&H, at Swt. Br.
WATER POLO- vs. Richmond; at Richmond

F00’l‘BAI.L- at Davidson

OCTOBER 7, 1994

   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
    
 
  
    
  
     
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  

  

Water Polo squad gathers steam heading

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

After a season of heartbreak-
ing losses, the Washington and
Lee water polo team was aiming
to turn the tables last weekend.

The Generals did just that,
winning two of three at the Rich-
mond Eastern Water Polo Asso-
ciation Tournament.

The two wins carrre against
11th ranked Bucknell and regu-
lar power Johns Hopkins.

Just the weekend before, the
Generals had succumbed to
Bucknell in the ﬁnal twenty sec-
onds of the contest.

There was no repeat this past
weekend as the Generals sent the
game into overtime.

In the overtime, W&L domi-
nated going up by four goals be-
fore a two point shot cut the ﬁnal
score to 20-18.

Sophomore Pete Sorenson
tallied three goals in the over-
time period and goalie David
Silvester notched 21 saves for
the game as the Generals made
their present felt with the upset.

“Itwasabig win,” said sopho-
more James Silberstein,“lt’s deﬁ-
nitely been a big turning point for

the team.”

In the second game, Johns
Hopkins fell to the W&L on-
slaught, going down 12-10 be-
hind four goals by Silberstein.

According to coach Paige
Remillard, the win against Johns
Hopkins was just as important
because it affected the Division
III rankings

The third game saw the Gen-
erals fall to the University of
Richmond 10-4.

Silvester partly attributed the
loss to fatigue, “This team is not
as deep as it has been in the past.”

Remillard added that the team
had taken a long break between
games and, “was fat-happy and
got mauled by Richmond at
home.”

The Generals’ coach was
quick to add, however, that the
game was extremely close
through the ﬁrst half with Rich-
mond ahead 3-1.

Some controversy was cre-
ated by the questionable water
quality of the Richmond pool.

“Our guys most noticeably
had a lot of eye problems,” said
Remillard.

The Richmond players, how-
ever, began to develop brachial
problems during the week as a

result of increased chlorine lev-

els in and around the pool.
Despite the problems, the

Generals are still scheduled to

' take on the Spiders twice this

weekend with the ﬁrst game be-
ing played tonight at Twombly
Pool in the Warner Center and
the second game scheduled for
tomorrow at Richmond.

Silberstein echoed the senti-
ments of the team, saying, “We’re
deﬁnitely ready for this week-
end,” as the Generals prepare for
their rivals.

When asked about what the
team needs to do to close out the
season successfully, Remillard
said, “We need to learn how to
come out third quarter against
our opponents and really get it
rolling,” ,

The upcoming game this
weekend is expected to draw the
biggest crowd of the year for the
Generals.

Remillard voiced conﬁdence
in this weekend’s series against
the Spiders, “If we don’t win it,
it’ll go down to the last second,
but we’re going to win it.”

Silvester asserted the enthu-
siasm of the squad, saying sim-
ply, “We hope everyone will
come out.”

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Football falls to Randolph Macon

Washington and Lee's football team dropped to 0-3 after a 19-0 loss to
Randolph Macon in the Generals’ homecoming game. The W&L defense
held the yellow jackets to just two offensive touchdowns, one of which was
scored late in the fourth quarter.

Women kickers continue strong

BY JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

The next time anyone tells
you that freshmen aren’t worth
having around, I have two words
for you to tell them: Erica
Reineke.

This freshman from West
Bloomﬁeld, MI, played a key
role by scoring two goals in last
Thursday’s 7-0 whitewashing of
Mary Baldwin, broke the single-
season Washington and Lee
points record with a late go-ahead
goal in the tough overtime loss to
Randolph-Macon this past Sat-
urday, and tied the W&L single-
season goal record with her 10th
in the Generals’ win over Sweet
Briar Wednesday.

When asked about her incred-
ible achievements, Reineke said,
“I’m having such a great time.
it’s so awesome to come to this
school where everyone isso good.
It makes you feel conﬁdent with
them behind you, and it’s nice to
feel that they need me too.”

What are her pre-game ritu-
als? Although she refused to di-
vulge the exact contents of the
tape, Reineke replied, “I have
some music I listen to that gets
me pumped up. I also try to visu-
alize scoring a goal or doing
something I want to work on.”

As for the games, the team
faced Mary Baldwin College last
Thursday in what was widely
viewed as a tune-up for
Saturday’s game against
Randolph-Macon. They made it
look like just that, scoring all
seven goals in the ﬁrst half to put
Mary Baldwin away early.

When asked if the emphasis
on preparation earlier in the week
made a difference, Coach Jan
Hathom replied, “Yes, we stayed
very focused and we did the
things we wanted to do. They’re
also young and inexperienced,
and that helped a lot.”

Due to the absence of starting
sophomore goalie Beth Mozena,
freshman Delia Coyle ﬁlled in
and recorded the shutout.

After the game, she
downplayed any nervousness in
the move to goalie, saying, “They
didn’t give us a lot of pressure,
otherwise I think I would have
been real nervous.”

Next came the perennial pow-
erhouse Randolph-Macon. Al-
though the visitors seemed to
control the ﬂow early, sopho-
more Michelle Bauman and jun-
ior Sara Benson each scored to
keep the game tied at 2-2 going
into the ﬁnal ten minutes.

Fab freshman Erica Reineke
then put the Generals ahead 3-2,
but with a bare 2:41 left,
Randolph Macon beat goalie
Beth Mozena in her return from a
back injury to tie the game.

Overtime proved to be all
Randolph-Macon, as they scored
a goal in each quarter to record
the ﬁnal 5-3 score.

Coach Hathorn sounded a
mixed note when asked about the
loss, saying, “I’m very happy
with it [the game]. That’s not to
say we shouldn’t have won, but
regardless of the outcome, the
majority of things that happened
Saturday were very positive.”

When asked if fatigue played
a role in the ﬁnal tally, Coach

Hathom replied, “From looking
at it over and over, it’s probably
fatigue. People were just two
steps behind, not because they
weren’t trying, but because they
just couldn’t ﬁnd it in the last two
minutes. There were also some
mistakes on the defensive end;
we’re a very young team.”

When asked the same ques-
tion, Reineke cited tiredness but
also a push by Randolph-Macon,
saying, “We were really tired,
but they just came out really hard
at us. They got a lucky goal at the
end of regulation and that kind of
set us back for a little while.”

The Generals then faced
Sweet Briar on Wednesday, and
Coach Hathorn sounded a cau-
tionary note before the game,
saying, “Sweet Briar always
treats us as a big game and are
always up for us, so it’s a tricky
situation.”

Her remarks proved to be
overly cautious as the Generals
won an easy 5-1 victory. Besides
the goal by Reineke, senior Kait
Barton scored two goals in the
winning effort, and senior Anne
Spruill also recorded one goal.

The week’s results put the
women’s soccer team at 5-3 with
ﬁve games remaining.

Coach Hathom shed a posi-
tivelightonthe upcoming games,
saying, “Our team knows that
they need to win the rest of their
conference games, and I feel very
strongly that they will come out
and take care of business.”

As for Reineke, she doesn’t
plan to let up, adding, “I just
want to keep on scoring and help-
ing my team.”

lilhe DH sports section ‘is stillll lloolking
for int«eurest«e<I peopllte to assist with
Ilay«oLrt.. Ilallll at 462»-4tDl5<l>..

 

After a strong weekend at the Richmond EWPA To

 
   

._a»-—

Photo by Betsy Green The Ring-tum Phi I
urnament, the

nerals gear

up for a rematch against the Spiders in this week’s home and home series. The

ﬁrst game is tonight at W&L.

X-countr

BY KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Buddy McGirt should take les-
sons from the Washington & Lee
women’s cross-country team.

Last Saturday, the welterweight
challenger thought he could take
the title away from champion
Pernell Whitaker in Whitaker’s
hometown of Norfolk. McGirt got
whipped.

Earlier that day,W&L traveled
to Lancaster, Pennsylvania, for the
Franklin & Marshall Invitational.
McGirt should have been watch-
mg.
The Generals left town having
humiliated the ﬁeld, shattered the
course record, and claimed more
than half of the individual honors
awarded. They came, they
saw...you know the rest.

With six of the top seven ﬁn-
ishers, Washington & Lee won the
seven-team meet with 19 points.
Susquehanna and host F&M tied
for second with 80.

The race was so lopsided that
the Generals could have split their
squad evenly and claimed both
ﬁrst and second.

Head coach Jim Phemister said
it was clear ahead of time that the
Generals were going to win, and

re was pleased to see that his run-
rers did not let up.

His runners apparently did not
hink the win was going to be that
my.

“We knew there was a possi-

dominates at ain

ility [we’d win big],” saidjun-
ior Amy Mears, “but we really
didn’t expect it to be that easy.”

Junior Josephine Schaeffer
picked up her fourth win in four
meets this year with a course
record 17:58, a minute and 35
seconds under the old mark.
Her nearest competitor, F&M’s
Jamie Kendig (19:03) would
have busted the course record
herself, had she not had
Schaeffer to deal with.

The old record of 19:33 was
set in 1990 by Swarthmore’s
DanaBailey.

Schaeffer has now won 20
of her 23 career races.

Mears placed third in 19:38
and was the ﬁrst of ﬁve con-
secutive Generals to cross the
line, all under 21 minutes.
Freshman Maren Wright ran a
personal best 20:03 for fourth
place and was followed by
classmate Carson Flowers, se-
nior captain Kim Herring and
senior Sue Deutsch.

Sophomore Nat Messmore
ran her best collegiate time for
a ninth place ﬁnish and senior
Teresa Lamey crossed in 13th,
giving W&L eight ofthe top 15
ﬁnishers, all of whom received
awards.

The only other schools rep-
resented in the ﬁrst 15 were
F&M (3), Susquehanna (3), and
Salisbury State (1).

For Lamey, the meet was
her best of a comeback season.
Last year, an injury forced her

out of action for e second half
of the season.
This weekend, more of the
same whipping ought to be fea-
tured at the W&L Invitational.
Washington & Lee hosts a ﬁeld
of mostly conference opponents

and another easy victory for the

I nation’s number-20 Division III

team is expected.

“We’re approaching it with
the same attitude as always,” said
Herring. “We’re just lucky that
everyone is running well and
everyone’s healthy.”

The meet will be the Gener-
als’ ﬁnal tune-up before next
week’s State Division II-III
Championship at Newport News.
W&L has won the last two state
titles and the team is looking for-
ward to this one.

“We’re excited to have a meet
where we’ll get to run against
some good teams,” said Herring.
“Everyone is focused and, at the
same time, is having fun.”

The Generals’ chances of re-
peating appear good, since they
are in the midst of the program’s
best year ever. The women have
beaten 34 of the 35 s :hools they
have faced so far, with the only
loss coming to the University of
Virginia.

A year ago, W&L’s state
championship squad lost to 10 of
their ﬁrst 35 opponents.

“We have a positive attitude,”
Mears said, “but we don’t want to
beoverconfident. We’re still
working hard.”

if .

gional tennis tournament.

SCBSOII.

    

Maril Ber

The W&L phenom lifted her career victory
total to 75 against only 11 losses through three
plus years at Washington and Lee.

In the championship match, Baker defeated
teammate Natalia Garcia. Garcia and Baker also
took the doubles crown in the tournament.

Baker has twice been named to the All-America
team and last year led the Generals into the
NCAA team competition at the end of the spring

    

again.

All that remains for Baker is to live up to the
lofty expectations for a great season. With Baker
returning, the Generals look to have a shot at
maintaining last year’s level of performance.

  

‘David Silvester’

Athletes of the Week

As a senior, Marilyn Baker returned to the
courts in triumphant fashion with a repeat perfor-
mance as champion in the Rolex Southeast re-

In order to upset Bucknell this past week-
end, the Generals’ water polo squad needed
superb play from their goalkeeper.

Senior All-American Dave Silvester re-
sponded to the challenge with 21 saves in
W&L’s 20-18 victory over the 11th ranked
Bucknell team.

Against Johns Hopkins in the same tour-
nament, Silvester made 12 saves as the
Generals took yet another win 12-10.

In the team’s loss to Richmond in the
third game, the senior made 12 saves yet

--Athletes of the week are selected by
the Washington and Lee athletic depart-
ment after each weekend.

into big Weekend i

‘-at

         
 
        
     
     
     
     
 
      
     
       
      
 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
         
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
        

@112 7 tug-tum Iﬂhi

.c
n
W.

e
P
P

:1

A

oL
C
e

2?.

II
0

Anna Brantley Fry Hollins
’95
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Escorted by Michael Jones
W&L ’95
Could not be reached.

Bevan J. Owens W&L '95
Alpha Phi Omega
Escorted by Paul Saboe W&L
’97
Could not be reached.

Carrie Baker W&L '95
Pi Beta Phi
Escorted by Ty Tydings W&L
'95
Could not be reached.

Katherine Allie Knight W&L
’95

Sigma Chi

Escorted by Chris Santora
W&L ’95

Could not be reached.

Kristen Kerr Mary Baldwin
’96

Phi Kappa Sigma

Escorted by Jud Allen W&L
’95

Could not be reached

Caml Pierce W&L ’95

Kappa Kappa Gamma

Escort unknown

‘'1 have a sincere interest in
W&L and there are many areas of
campus life where I’ve made a
difference."

Julia Podlas W&L ’95

Pi Kappa Phi

Escorted b y Ray Craig W&L:
’95

"It is not the title of Homecom-
ing Queen that is important to n1e.
I already feel honored that I have
been chosen by my peers as a rep-
resentative of the ideals of W&L. "

Katharine Ray W&L ’95
Beta Theta Pi
Escorted by Roger Briggs
W&L ’95
Could not be reached.

Mary Muehlberg W&L '95

Phi Psi

Escorted by Quinn Kiley W&L
’95

"I want to be Homecoming
Queen because I need something
to put on my resume."

Ayanna Brady W&L ’95
Minority Student Association
Escorted by Tim Scott ’95
Could not be reached

Meagan McCloskey W&L
’95

Chi Omega

Escorted by Jeffrey Laborde
W&L ’95

"I would like to be Homecom-
ing Queen because hopefully l’1l
be a better Homecoming Queen
than a source of quotes for the
Phi."

Melissa Wolf W&L ’95

Sigma Nu

Escorted by Stephen Inman
W&L’96

"I would like to be Homecom-
ing Queen so freshmen will stop
asking me what school I go to."

Kathleen Dusse '98
Lambda Chi Alpha
Escort unknown
Could not be reached

Susan L. Fisher W&L ’95
Pi Kappa Alpha
Escorted by Joe Tison W&L
’95 -
Could not be reached.

Courtney Tucker '96
Kappa Sigma

Could not be reached

Virginia E. Roberts
Phi Delt
Escorted by Brian T. Connell
W&L ’97
Could not be reached.

Jennifer Hickes '95
Chi Psi

Escort unknown
Could not be reached

Cameron Turner W&L ’95L

Student Bar Association

Escort unknown

"The Washington and Lee com-
munity has been so kind to me and
it would be an honor to represent
them."

Ne Ripken W&L ’95
Kappa Alpha
Escorted by Owen Smith W&L
’96
Could not be reached.

Escort by Will Townes '96

Rachel Wright W&L ’97

lntemational Club

Escorted by Stephen Shrader
W&L ’95

''I would like to be Homecom-
ing Queen because I think I can
best represent the community of
W&L."

Andrienne Leigh W&L ’97

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Escorted by Zach Wooldridge
W&L ’96

''I would like to be Homecom-
ing Queen because I heard the EC
is going to give the Homecoming
Queen and her court a $1400 din-
ner at Willson Walker."

Anne-Michelle Langlols
W&L ’95

Kappa Alpha Theta

Escorted by Daniel Felton
W&L ’95

Could not be reached.

Drivin n’ Cryin to play Pavilion

By JENNIFER [ATHAM
Phi Staff Writer

In the interest of his business,
Wayne Raynal requested that his
name not be used in connection
with Night Owl (he’s the owner).

Washington and Lee students
hope to hear blasts from the past
when Drivin’ n‘ Cryin’ plays at the
Pavilion tonight.

”Their musical style has really
changed a lot,” said Drew Denbo,
S.A.B. entertainment director.

“lt’s gotten a little bit harder.
I don’t know if they were just
experimenting, but I’m hoping
they’ll go back to their old style
and tone it down.”Students’ pref-
erence for early DNC work shows
in album sales at Night Owl
Records.

“Mystery Road” is the band’s
oldest album and the top seller at
Night Owl, followed by “Whisper
Tames the Lion” and “Scarred but

Smarter.””Mystery Road” gained
recognition especially because of
the single “Straight to Hell.”

"I think I ﬁrst heard it at a
fraternity party,” said Senior Dasha
Hermosilia. “It’s very sing
along.”Lexington resident and
“’70s survivor” Wayne Raynal said
DNC might have been considered
a metal band like Deep Purple and
Led Zeppelin if they had been
around in the ’70s.

”It’s mellow compared to what
we used to call metal,” said
Raymal.

“They don’t call it that any-
more. It’s just hard rock.”Drivin’
and Cryin’ made a turn toward
metal in 1993 with the release of
the album “Smoke.”

Since then, the band has
changed from Island Records to
Geffen. DNC also dropped their
fourth guitarist and added organist
Joey Huffman after “Smoke” came
out.

They plan to take their new
sound to L.A. in October to record

an album after touring.If the con-
cert turnout at W&L is any indica-
tion of their tour’s success, DNC
will be on a roll when they get to
L.A. As of Thursday afternoon,
about 150 tickets had been sold at
W&L.

Junior Pete Jalbert, S.A.B.
ticket coordinator, said sales
“should be comparable” to those
of last year’s homecoming con-
cert.

”We’re pretty optimistic about
attendance,” said Jalbert.DNC’s
opening band, Freeway, might
boost attendance with their fol-
lowers. Freeway will also play in
Dave Matthews’ upcoming tour
and has opened up for Widespread
Panic and Allgood.

The Knoxville band formed
three years ago and recently re-
corded a soon to be released
CD.Ticket sales for the concert
will continue Friday in front of the
Co—op. They will be $8 in advance
and $10 at the door. Freeway will
start the show at 8:30 p.m.

(parade enters  year

By CINDY YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s Third
Annual Homecoming Parade will
be one of many highlights of
theSept. 30 - Oct. 1 weekend. On
Saturday, Oct. 1, the 11:30 a.m.
parade will originate at Brewbaker
Field making its way down Main
Street and turning left onto Wash-
ington Street.

The idea for reviving the W&L
tradition came from the leaders of
Kathekon, W&L’s student alumni
group. Each participating student
group wil construct a ﬂoat repre-
senting their respective organiza-
tion or the depiction of a Generals’
victory over the Randolph-
Macon”Yellow Jackets.” Other
groups invited to participate in the
parade include the Lylbum Down-
ing Middle School Band, the
Rockbridge County High School
Band, area fire departments and
rescue teams, the Liberty Hall
Volunteers, and local elected offi-
cials. The trophy for the best float
is a three-foot stuffed mink on a
walnut and brass base.

In additiontothe Homecoming
parade, other activities will include
the football game on Saturday af-
ternoon, alumni receptions, con-
certs, and lectures. Also, a confer-
ence for Alumni Chapter Presi-

dents will continue through the
weekend.

Two reunion groupswill gather
on campus Homecoming week-
end. the “Five Star Generals,”
alumni who graduated from W&L
50 or more years ago, will be hon-
ored at a dinner in Evans Dining
Hall on Friday evening. Members
of the four most recently gradu-
ated classes will also gather for a
“Cluster Reunion,” a program that
was initiated six years ago to give
the younger alumni an opportu-
nity to come together on campus
prior to the five-year spring re-
union.

Friday’s activities will include

a reception for alumni at 6 p.m. in
the W&L Alumni House. At 8:45
p.m., the W&L choral ensembels
including Southern Comfort and
JubiLee will give a concert in the
Lenfest Center’s Keller Theater.
Activities continue Saturday
morning with the 11:30 a.m. pa-
rade in downtown Lexington.

An alumni luncheon on the
Front Lawn will be held at 12
noon. At 2 p.m. the football team
will go against Randolph-Macon
on Wilson Field, with the half-
time crowning of the Homecom-
ing queen. A post-game reception
will be held at the W&L Alumni
House.

’51 Homecoming

W&L finally beat the Wahoos
in historic homecoming game

By Kenn GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Every Homecoming ought to
be this big. The Generals, the
Wahoos.

Two of the biggest interstate
rivals in the nation.

Of the first 22 times Washing-
ton & Lee and Virginia met on the
football field since 1890, W&L
won ten, the Cavaliers took eleven,
and one game was a tie.

That, however, was how the
series stood 14 years earlier, be-
fore Virginia ran off nine succes-
sive wins over the Generals.

In 1951, the W&L faithful felt
for sure that streak was going to
end.

This would be the year.

For the 1951 Generals, few
hopes abounded of repeating the
previous year’s number 18 rank-
ing and Gator Bowl berth.

Hopes for a repeat Southern
Conference title ended with a home
54-14 loss to Maryland in the sec-
ond week.

What was left to hope for?

After all, Walt Michaels, the
best football playerthe school ever
saw, was now doing his work on
NFL ﬁelds.

Yet, the backfield still had
Bocetti. Quarterback Gil Bocetti,
the best football player in the state.

That alone was reason enough
to believe that this would be the
year.

There would be no run at a
national championship, nor an-
other bowl game.

But 1951 just might be, just
could be the year W&L would
beat those dang Wahoos.

Homecoming ’51 had all the
hype.

Virginia had beaten W&L with
a late score the previous year, and
the Generals were looking to re-
pay the favorby blocking the Cavs’
road to their first unbeaten season
since 1908.

It would be the first time the
hated Cavs would visit Wilson
Field in three years.

To accommodate the large
crowds that usually turned out to
follow the Blue and White, W&L
played many games each season at
neutral sites, like Richmond,
Roanoke and Lynchburg.

Though it may be hard for
today’s W&L football rooters to
comprehend, Wilson Field simply
wasn’t big enough for their fans.

Finally, as in any great battle,
there was the gratuitous one-on-
one duel to watch.

Bocetti and Virginia QB Rufus
Barkley, considered two of the best
split-T quarterbacks, would face
eachother for the last time.

Through two games, Virginia
had yet to be scored upon, heating
George Washington and Virginia
Tech by a combined 53-0.

Barkley had completed 20 of
33 passes in the two games for 183
yards.

The Generals, though set-back
by Maryland two weeks earlier,
were coming off of a 34-0 rout of
favored West Virginia.

In the week leading up to the
showdown, the Virginia press had
every reason to give W&L a
chance.

Bocetti had missed most of the
Maryland game with a leg injury,
but was now healthy.

As the Richmond Times-Dis-
patch reported four days before
the game, the Generals quarter-
back had the ability to lift his team
to new heights:

“Without Bocetti, Washington
& Lee is just another team; with
Bo at quarterback, the Generals
are a scoring threat each time they
go on the offensive.”

The day of the game, the Times- I

Dispatch favored the Cavaliers in
what they said would be a “clas-
s1c.”

Yet, the paper noted “W&L is
primed for the game, its front-line
men are in good shape, and the
Blue supporters are banking on
another scintillating performance
by Bocetti to turn the trick.”

At the long anticipated kick-
off, 10,000 fans were jammed
intoWilson Field to see if W&L
could become the ﬁrst Virginia
school since 1946 to top the Wa-
hoos.

Ten minutes into the game, the
Blue & White scored the ﬁrst points
the Virginia defensive eleven had
allowed all season.

A nine-yard touchdown pass
from Bocetti to Bob Thomas and
Jay Handlan’s extra-point gave
W&L a 7-0 lead.

The lead lasted but a few sec-
onds as the Cavs’ Jim Ashwell
raced the ensuing kickoff back
untouched for a 95-yard score, ty-
ing the game.

But before the first quarter could
end, Bocetti’s Generals had gone
ahead once again.

The W&L QB connected with
Thomas on a 34-yard touchdown
pass for a lead the Generals would
never relinquish. In the second
quarter, the Generals defense in-
tercepted a Barkley pass in Vir-
ginia territory.

Three plays later, Thomas took
an end around into the endzone for
his third TD.

When Randy Browles bounded
77 yards for another W&L touch-
down minutes later, the Cavaliers
were clearly ﬁnished.

When the dust settled on Wil-
son Field, the inspired Generals
had trounced their rivals 42-14.

Not since Richmond did it ﬁve
years before had a Virginia school
beaten UVA.

“I thought it would be a close
game which could go either way,”
head coach7George Barclay said
afterwards.

“I never dreamed we would
get 42 points.”

The W&L defense had held
Barkley to one of seven passing
for just seven yards! Bocetti, mean-
while, picked up 122 passing yards
on six of 13.

The running game, which
Barclay said beforehand would be
secondary in their offensive plans,
gained 358 yards.

The stunning rout proved to be
the lone blemish on Virginia’s
record. The Generals had their re-
venge.

“Bocetti-Thomas Combina-
tion Stuns Virginia for W&L,”
screamed the Times-Dispatch
headline.

“Virginia Halted,”saidthe New
York Times.

The Ring-tum Phi, though, said
it all: “We finally beat the Wa-
hoos!”

